
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at jhttp : //books . qooqle . com/ 



fifteenth- a^nturg <tokr]| §0<rk 



#» ** 



H *v 



v • 



* 



<d}ifteettth-a^rttttrg (tokrg §00113. 




BERLIN: ASHER & CO., o, UNTER DEN LINDEN. 

NEW YORK: C. 8CRIBNER & CO.; LEYPOLDT & HOLT. 

PHILADELPHIA: J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO. 




^i|twttth-(!{tntttrg (tofora-^flfllts- 



i 



HARLEIAN MS. 279 (ab. 1430), & HARL. MS. 4016 (ab. 1450), 



EXTRACTS FROM ASHMOLE MS. 1429, 
j LAUD MS. 553, & DOUCE MS. 55. 



) 



EDITED BY 

THOMAS AUSTIN. 



LONDON: 

PUBLISHED FOR THE EABLY ENGLISH TEXT SOCIETY 
BY N. TRTJBNER & CO., 57 and 59 LTJDOATE HILL, E.C. 



1888. 



# 






A /■' 



1 2£0f 6 



91. 



HERTFORD : 

PRINTED BY STEPHEN AUSTIN AND SONS. 



k- 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 

Forewords vii 



Collation with Ashmolb MS., and Errata . . xviii 

Harleian MS. 279 (ab. 1430 a.d.) 1 

Harleian MS. 4016 (ab. 1450 a.d.) 65 

Ashmole MS. 1439. (Sauces.) 108 

Laud MS. 553 (Bodleian Library) Ill 

Recipes from Douce MS. 55 (ab. 1450 a.d.) . . . 115 

Glossary and Index 119 



FOREWORDS. 



T he Ancient Cookeries edited in this volume have been copied h orn 
Harleian MSS. 279 and 4016, in the British Museum. The" first 
MB. was cbpied^ ancT "pardypr^are J f or the press, T>y 'the T ate jl r. 
Faulke Watling, o?"tKe University of Oxford,' But his untimely 
death prevented his seeing it through the Press. This MSTis 
divideftintgf three Par ts, th e first, head ed Kalen dare de Potag es dyuers, 
c onlaining_l5o_redBe§f » the second Part, Ralendare de Lechejifetys, 
has 64 recijjjeSj and the third Part, Dyuerse bake metis* JQ reqj pes. 
T his MS^ beside^ fljfi fi^^pry, oontrnTis the Bills of Fare o f je veral 
Ban quets which are no ticed more fully below. Th e date of thi s MS. 
is jbout 1 430 orl440^and has been given a little too early on pages 
1 and_5. This has been collated with Ashmole MS. 1439, in the 
Bodleian, noted as A. in the text. For the second MS. it was origi- 
nally intended to publish Douce MS. 55, in the Bodleian Library, 
but this was found imperfect, and was replaced by Harleian MS. 
4016. They are similar books, and contain the same recipes in 
nearly the same words, the latter having a few that are not in the 
former, and vice tersd. The Harleian Cookery has 182 Recipes, 
while the Douce Cookery has 184. The two have been collated, and 
are of .about the same date, c. 1450., Two Banquets arefrSfixecnb 
this MS., which are also more fully noticed below. Several of the 
recipes of the Douce MS. are appended at page 115. 

Some recipes for sauces, taken from Ashmole MS. 1439, are given 
at page 108. This MS. is about the same date as Harleian MS. 279, 
and has the same Feasts added, though some of the leaves are missing. 
These recipes are followed by others taken from two odd leaves in 
Laud MS. 553, in the Bodleian Library ; see page 112. 

The first English Cookery Book seems to be that of Neckam, in 



VUl FOREWORDS. 



I"' 









the twelfth century, but the F orme of Curt/ is th e oldest practical 
work. Th is was comp iled by tne Uniet Master Cooks of Hichaf dlL, 
and contains 196 reeipes^-'T h'e' M& that we posses s was presented 
to folueen Elizabeth by tord Stafford, and afterwards belonged to 
the Earl o f Oxford, being purchased at his 6ale ; i t £ howufaf the 
B ritish Museum . This volume, with the Cookeries in "Warner, 
Antiquitates Culinarice (1791), the Cookery published by Mrs. Napier 
in 1882, known as the Noble Soke of Cookry, and Liber Cure Cocorum, 
have been used for purposes of reference, and. elucidation of the 
recipes in the following MSS. The Cookery edited by Mrs. Napier 
had however, though then unknown, been previously edited by 
Pynson, as early as 1500, and again by John Byddell in 1650. 

M uch of th e scientific Cookery wa s s& coiusa Fxerak.and, as will 
be^seen^ in the f ollowin^Recipes^ the French titles got singularly 
perverted, and in some cases are extremely hard to recognise. For 
instance, who at first sight would recognise Lait under Let, Froide as 
Fryit, or Sauce in Sauke ? Again Serbelettes becomes Arbolettys, and 
Aigredoux or Aigredouce, Egredouncye. The earliest Cookery B ooks 
that may be f_q]1jefl English only dfttft froio flie letter half of^ the 
s eventeenth centur y. 

Many of the Recipes that are given here would astonish a modern 
CooE Ou T * fuie f a l h u iuj poooibly f rnnrrlmviitg stronger stomachs, 
fort ified by outdoor life, evidently liked their dishes strongly seasoned 
and faifluaht^ as the Cinnamon SpjJP on p. 59 shews. Peppe r, Ginger, 
Qloxes, Garlic, C innamon, Galragkje , Vinegar, Verjuice, and Wine, 
appear constantly in dishes where we should little expect them ; and 
even Ale was frequently used in Co okery. Wine is used in the 
re cipe for Roast C artridge) on p. 78, and also, as seems more natural 
to us, in the Partridge Stews on pages 9 and 78 : it is also used for 
Braicn in Poivrade on p. 71. Ale is introduced in the Botcres on 
p. 8, in the Sops Chamberlain on p. 11, and in the Mortrem de Chair 
on p. 71, and is even used }n the Charlette on pi 17, though Milk 
is also one of the ingredients : both Ale and Wine appear in the 
Maumenny Royal, on p. 22. Ale is also used with the Tench in Bruet 






V" 



FOREWORDS. IX 



on p. 23, in the Whelks and Oysters in Bruet, on the same page, and 
in fact seems to be a characteristic of the Bruets, as most of these 
dishes, have it as an ingredient. Ale was also mingled with t he 
w ater in which the fish was boiled : note the Boiled Pike on page 
101, the Plaice on page 103, and the Barbel, p. 104. Stale Ale i s 
nsed for the Oil Sops on page 12, possibly in place of Vineg ar. 
Vinegar is used in the Brawn on page* 11 and 12, in the Numbles of 
Venison on pages 16 and 70, and in the Venison in broth on p. 70 : 
Vinegar or Ve rjuice is added to the Stewed Mutton on page 72, 
V erjuice to the Meat Custard or Pie, on p. 74. amL to the r Jy we on 
pages 7 and 18. Here our ancestors shewed their wisdom, as t he 
acid served as a corrective to the richness o f the dish es. Sugar on 
t he other hand is also used with Brawn, see the Blaunche Brawn on 
p. 34, and the Fried Brawn on p. 43, and was quite lately taken with 
it at St. John's College, Oxford. 

Almond milk was also a constant ingredient of the dis hes : see the 
Bragn^in Comfit onj^e.71jjwid.;£he^m^ on page 26 : it was 
^^Hjffll with fifth, a* in the Viandf Jf Cji^ri^ in _ Lent, on page 28.^ ; ' ^ 
Both jSugat and Salt are used in the Quinade on page 27, and in the 5/\/^>. 
Mqrtrews of Por k on J?age^ 28. Marrow was then much more u sed 
t han at present : note the 300 marrowbones on page 67. 

M eats that we do not eat at the present day, or eat but seldom, 
also appear in the B anqugts of our ancestors, as Whale, Porgoise, 
S eal, Swan, Cran e , Jleron , jand_Peacqck ; ghile even the fish^Gull 
was eaten. O ne woul d i magine that Sturgeon w as then jnore 
plenti ful, to judg e iy_the recipes for its cookery. Stockfish * was 
of course much more in vogue, from the difficulty of obtaining 
fresh fish. We may suppose that the Pudding of Capon Neck on 
page 41, and the Pudding of Swan Neck on page 61, were dainties. 
It would appear, from page 67, that Oxen were salted whole, 
while, to descend to the other end of the scale, small birds wer e 
eaten, as they still are in Frajigeu (see the recipe on page 9, and 
theTEoyal Banquet on page 58). Our flaming Christmas Pudding 
is recalled by the Viande Ardente in the Banquet on page 61. 

1 See Glossary. 



X FOREWORDS. 

So me of the designs, or Subtleties^ exposed on the Tables, a s 
ornament, were of rather a n ambitions character ; far more so than 
most of those mentioned on pages 57, 58, etc. T hese were devio es 
in sugar and paste, and a pparent ly in jelly, and wer e, at^any rate at 
times, made to be eaten. Those displayed at the Enthronement of 
Afip. *WarEam in 1505, must i<jve > }$ en °f considerable size, as 
their description shews. T hey represented s ilvan and hunting 
scenes, and one displayed the interior of an Abbey Churc^jmth its 
various altars. In other cases such devices as a ship, f ully arme d 
w ith, herordifance/with the Barons j)f the Cinque Ports on boa rd, 
or buildings with vanes and towers are exhibited. A great Custard, 
planted, is displayed in a banquet given by LelancL in his Collectanea. 
The dishes were also gilt at times, for purpose of display, as a Leche 
Lombard in the same volume; a Peacock also is mentioned with 
a gilt nib. The Subtleties mentioned in this volume are of a much 
more modest character, representing simply an Agnus Dei, an Eagle, 
a Doctor of Law, etc. ; though those at the Stalling of John Stafford, 
on page 68, are more complicated. They seem both to have preceded 
the various courses, and also to have closed them, the first being 
called Warners, as giving warning of the entry of a fresh service. 

We will now turn to the Banquets, whose Bills of Fare the 
Cookeries give us. The v first of them [p. 57], both in place and 
importance, is that given at the Coronation of Henry the Fourth, 
and it has especial interest in the fact that a description of it is 
in the Chronicles of Froissart. Henry succeeded the dethroned 
Richard II. in 1399, as Froissart says, with the approval of the 
People of England ; Richard having previously personally surrendered 
his Crown to him. Stow says that Henry was chosen at "Westminster 
Hall, at a Parliament there. The Archbishop of Canterbury, 
Thomas Arundel, having first preached a Latin sermon, on the text, 
Habuit Jacob benedictionem d patre suo, a Doctor of Law stood up, 
and read an Instrument which averred that Richard by his own 
confession was unworthy to reign, and would resign the Crown to 
a competent person. This having been read, the Archbishop advised 



FOREWORDS. XI 

them to proceed to the election of a new king, and on a vote being 
taken, the whole assembly was in Henry's favour; Richard not 
having four votes for him. Henry then accepted the Crown, but 
Stow says that he acquired the throne more by force than by lawful 
succession or election. 

Henry left the Tower of London, where he was then residing, on 
Sunday the 12th of October, 1399, having previously made forty-six 
new Knights of the Bath : he was dressed in a jacket after the 
German mode. He went to Westminster to sleep, and at night 
bathed, after the fashion of chivalry; next morning, Monday the 
13th, and St. Edward's day, he confessed himself and heard three 
Masses, preparatory to his Coronation. The Prelates and Clergy 
then came in procession from the Abbey, and escorted him thither, 
the return procession entering the sacred place at about nine o'clock 
in the morning. The Lord Mayor with chosen Citizens of London, 
were in the Procession, clothed alike in red. Cloth was laid down 
for the king's passage, and the Abbey was also laid with cloth. 
Henry was under a Canopy of blue silk, according to Froissart, 
but Holinshed makes it of Cloth of Gold, with a golden bell jingling 
at each corner ; the Canopy was borne, says Holinshed, by sixteen 
Barons of the Cinque Ports, four to each Staff, though Froissart 
again differs, noting that it was borne by only four Burgesses, Dover 
ones. Holinshed is more likely right. We may suppose that these 
were the actual bearers of the Canopy : Stow, however, tells us that 
there were four other, apparently honorary bearers — the Dukes of 
York, Surrey, Aumarle, and the Earl of Gloucester. The Burgesses 
had as fees Canopy, "bells, and staves. 

Preparatory to the Coronation and Banquet, Officials had been 
appointed on October 4th. The Earl of Northumberland was High 
Constable, and as holding the Isle of Man, bore on the king's left at 
the Coronation a naked sword, called Lancaster's Sword, with which 
Henry was girt when crowned; the Earl of Somerset carried a 
sword before the king, and Thomas Beauchamp, Earl of Warwick, 
bore a third sword, by inherited right, and was also Pantler : the 



XU FOREWORDS. 

Earl of Westmoreland was Marshal. Sir Thomas Erpingham was 
Lord Chamberlain, and furnished the monarch with water for his 
hands, both before and after the Banquet, having as fee the Basin, 
Ewer, Towels, etc. The Earl of Somerset was Carver, in right of 
his Earldom of Lincoln, and Sir ¥m. Argentine, by reason of his 
tenure of the Manor of Wilmundale, or Wymondley, Herts, served 
the king with the first cup of drink at dinner, and received the 
silver-gilt Gup as his fee. Thomas, Earl of Arundel, was chief 
Butler, and had the royal goblet as gift; Citizens of London, 
chosen by the Oity, served in the Hall, as attendants while Henry 
banqueted. Lord Latimer was Almonef for the day, the silver 
money being in a fine linen cloth ; whilst William le Yenour had 
the honour of making wafers for the king : Edmond Chambers was 
larderer, and Lord Grey of Ruthyn was Naperer (see post). 

Henry took his seat on a throne that stood on a scaffold covered 
with crimson cloth, and was then proclaimed king from the four 
corners of it by the Archbishop of Canterbury, who asked the consent 
of the people: his words were greeted with shouts of "Aye!" 
Henry was then stripped naked to his shirt previous to anointing, 
and was anointed in six places, as Froissart says, the head, breast, 
shoulders, back, and hands: he was afterwards dressed in deacon's 
clothes, with shoes of crimson velvet, and wore spurs without rowels. 
The Sword of Justice was next drawn and blessed, and given to the 
King, who returned it to the scabbard : it was then girt about him 
by the Prelate, by whom the Crown of St. Edward was also placed 
on his head. Lord Furnivall, as holding the Manor of Farnham, 
gave the King his right-hand glove, and supported his arm while he 
held the sceptre. Henry quitted the Abbey when Mass was over 
and returned to Westminster Hall, where the Banquet was given. 

At the Banquet the King sat at the first table, and at the Royal 
board were the two Archbishops and seventeen Bishops : at the 
bottom of the table was the Earl of Westmoreland with the Sceptre. 
The King was served by the Prince of Wales, who carried the Sword 
of Mercy, and on the opposite side by the Constable, bearing the 



FOREWORDS. XU1 

Sword of Justice. At the second table sat the five great Peers of 
England, probably the Dukes of Lancaster, York, Aumarle, Surrey, 1 
and Exeter : at the third table were the principal Citizens of London, 
apparently the Lord Mayor and Aldermen, whose table was at the 
left of the Royal table. The Barons of the Cinque Ports sat at 
a table on the right of the King : at another table sat the newly- 
created Knights; while all Knights and Squires of Honour sat 
at a sixth. 

"When the Feast was half over, the Champion, Sir Thos. Dymock, 
entered the Hall in full armour, mounted on a horse barded with 
crimson housings. He was equipped for "Wager of Battle, and pre- 
ceded by another Knight, bearing his lance, and himself carried a 
drawn sword, and had by his side a naked dagger. The Champion 
presented a paper to the King, which affirmed that he was ready to 
offer combat to any Knight or Gentleman who dared maintain that 
Henry was not a lawful sovereign. By the King's orders Heralds 
proclaimed this Challenge in six different parts of the Hall and 
City, without gainsaying. The Champion received as his fee one 
of the best horses in the Royal Stable, with saddle and trappings, 
and one of the best suits of armour. When Henry had dined, and 
partaken of wine and spices, he withdrew to his private apartments, 
whither the Lord Mayor brought him a Cup of gold filled with 
wine, taking it again as his fee, together with a second cup that had 
contained water to allay the wine. 

Next follows, on page 58, the Banquet given at the King's second 
marriage, in 1404. Henry, when Earl of Derby, had married Mary, 
the younger daughter and coheiress of Humphrey de Bohun, Earl 
of Hereford and Northampton, who died in 1394. His second wife, 
in whose honour the feast was given, was Joan of Navarre, widow 
of John de Montfort, Duke of Brittany. She landed a few days 
previously at Falmouth, and was married in Winchester Cathedral 
on the 7th of February : the Banquet was possibly in the Hall of 

1 Thomas Holand, Duke of Surrey, is said to have been deprived of his Dukedom on 
Oct. 6th 1399, and was soon afterwards beheaded. Stow however writes as above. 



XIV FOREWORDS. 

the Castle, which still remains. She was crowned at Westminster 
on the 28th of the same month, and survived her husband. 

Fabyan's Chronicle gives an account of the Feast at the 
Coronation of the Queen of Henry V., which took place on Feb. 24th, 
1420, being St. Matthew's Day ; for which reason the Bill of Fare 
was entirely Fish, with the exception of Brawn with Mustard in the 
first Course. The Queen, at table, had the Archbishop of Canterbury 
on her right, and Henry Cardinal of Winchester on her left. The 
Duke of Gloucester had charge of the Banquet, and stood bareheaded 
before the Queen, while Sir Bichard Neville was Carver. The 
brother of the Earl of Suffolk was cup-bearer, Sir John Stewart, 
Sewer, and Lord Clifford, Panterer ; and Lord Grey of Ruthyn was 
again Naperer. The Barons of the Cinque Ports were at the head 
of the table on the right of the Queen, towards St. Stephen's Chapel, 
and the Bowchiers of the Chancery (P the Proctors) were below 
them at the same table: at a table on the Queen's left sat the 
Lord Mayor and Aldermen of London. The Bishops were at the 
head of the table next to that at which the Barons of the Cinque 
Ports sat, and the Ladies had a table next to the Lord Mayor's table. 
The Feast, as usual, was of three Courses, which were of the same 
character. Whale was served in the first Course : in the second was 
a Leche damask with the king's motto flourished on it, which was 
Vne sanz plus; meaning of course the Queen. In the third Course 
was Porpoise, and in this Course was a subtlety of a Tiger looking 
into a Mirror, with a man on horseback fully armed, grasping 
a Tiger's whelp. 

Henry the Sixth's Coronation Feast is also mentioned in Fabyan : 
like the others, it was in Westminster Hall, and was also of three 
Courses. In the first Course was a Viande royale planted with 
lozenges of gold, and a Custard Royal with a leopard of gold sitting 
thereon. There was a Peacock enhackled in the second Course: in 
the third was a Baked meat like a shield, quartered red and white, 
and set with gilt lozenges and Borage flowers. There was a subtlety 
both before and after this Course, the last one representing the 



FOREWORDS. XV 

Virgin and Child, with St. George and St. Denis kneeling on either 
side, and presenting to the Queen a figure of Henry with the 
following ballad in his hand : — 

" blessyd Lady, Cristes moder dere, 

" And thou, seynt George ! that called art her knyght ; 

u Holy seynt Denys, marter most entere, 

" The sixt Henry here present in your syght, 

" Shedyth, 1 of your grace, on him your heuenly lyght : 

" His tender youth with vertue doth * auaunce, 

" Borne by discent, and by tytle of ryght, 

" Iustly to reygne in Englande and in Fraunce." 

It is uncertain who the Lord de la Grey was, whose Banquet 
follows [p. 59] : if, however, the feasts are given in chronological 
order, the date can be assigned within a given period. Holinshed 
mentions a Lord Reginald Grey of Ruthyn that was Naperer 2 at 
Henry the Fourth's Coronation, on account of a manor that he 
held, and who bore the great spurs before Henry IV., by right of 
inheritance from the Earl of Pembroke. He is also mentioned 
above, on the previous page, and may be the person in question. 

Next follows [p. 60] the Feast of Richard Fleming, Bishop of 
Lincoln from 1420 to 1431 : he was Canon of York when preferred 
to the Bishopric. As Bishop he exbumed and burnt the bones 
of Wycliffe, in accordance with the sentence of the Council of 
Constance, in 1425. A dinner of John Chandler, Bishop of Salisbury 
from 1417 to 1426, follows the above [p. 60], and was given at his 
entrance on the episcopate. 

Then follows [p. 61] an Entertainment given on the 4th of 
December, 1424, on the occasion of the funeral of Nicholas Bubwith, 
Bishop of Bath and Wells. He was originally Bishop of London, 
for only a short time, and was transferred to Salisbury in 1407, and 
in the same year shifted to Bath and Wells. He was present at the 
Council of Constance. He built the north tower and a chantry in 
the Cathedral of Wells, he also founded an almshouse at Wells. 
1 Imperatives : make advance, in second case. 8 He provided the table-linen. 



XY1 FOREWORDS. 

It will be noticed with regard to this Dinner, that a separate fare 
of Fish was provided for the Clergy, doubtless on account of the 
melancholy occasion. 

On page 62 is a festival given by John Stafford, Bishop of 
Bath and Wells, on the occasion of induction into his Episcopate, 
September 16th, 1425. He was born at Hook in the parish of 
Abbotsbury, Dorset, close to the Chesil Bank, and was descended 
from a collateral branch of the Stafford family. His father was 
Sir Humphrey Stafford, Sheriff of Somerset and Dorset, and his 
mother was Elizabeth Dyrham, relict of Sir John Maltravers. He 
was educated at Oxford, and first practised in the Ecclesiastical 
Courts, afterwards entering holy orders. He became Archdeacon of 
Salisbury in 1419, and was made Chancellor of England, according 
to Stow about the 12th of Henry VI., 1434, according to Hook in 
1421. In 1422 he was Dean of St. Martin's Le Grand at Charing 
Cross: he was also Keeper of the Privy Seal, and Lord High 
Treasurer to Henry VI. He got the Bishopric of Bath and "Wells, 
as stated above, in 1425, and in 1443 was translated to the Arch- 
bishopric of Canterbury, on the nomination of Pope Eugenius IV., 
to whom he had been recommended by Chichele, his predecessor. 
The Banquet that he gave on being made Archbishop is at page 68 f 
and he gave quite a different Bill of Fare on that occasion. He 
officiated at the marriage of Henry VI. with Margaret of Anjou in 
1445, and also crowned that Queen. He was a Statesman, and was 
instrumental in the dispersion of Jack Cade's forces : curiously 
enough he also engaged in trade. He died at Maidstone, May 25th, 
1452, and was buried at Canterbury in the Martyrdom. 

The last Feast in Harleian MS. 279 [p. 63], is one given at the 
wedding of the Earl of Devonshire, and is without date. Con- 
cerning the Earl in question, Mr. Cokayne, Norroy King at Arms, 
has been kind enough to supply the following note, through Dr. 
Furnivall : — 

"Hugh Courteftay, Earl of Devon (or Devonshire), was born 
1389, being aged 30 when he succeeded his father in that Earldom 



FOREWORDS. ZYU 

in 1419. His marriage, with Anne Talbot, was before 1414, and 
before he became an EarL He died 1422. 

" His son is probably the Earl you want, viz. Thomas Courtenay, 
Earl of Devon, born 1414 (being aged 8 in 1422), who became 
Earl on his father's death in 1422. He married Lady Margaret 
Beaufort, second daughter of John, Earl of Somerset, probably about 
1431, when he would be but 17, but certainly before 1432, when 
their son Thomas, (aged 26 at his father's death in 1458,) was 
born. Lady Margaret's eldest brother was born 1401, and her eldest 
sister Joan, Queen of Scotland, was married in 1423, so that she 
probably was quite as old as, if not older than her husband." 

The remaining Festival [p. 67] is that given to Richard the 
Second by the Bishop of Durham, at Durham House, London, on 
the 23rd of September, 1387. The Bishop that feasted the King 
was John Forham, or Fordham, who held the Bishopric from 1381 
to 1388, having previously occupied the See of Ely. He was one 
of Richard's evil counsellors, and held the Office of Lord High 
Treasurer, but was discharged of it in 1386. He was among the 
Lords that rebelled against the King in 1388, but was not 
imprisoned, though in that year he was deprived of his See, and 
permitted to retire to his old Bishopric, which was of far less 
dignity. 

The Editor must add, that he has to thank Dr. Furnivail for 
moat kindly collating the text with that of both the MSS., and 
he has also to thank him for some hints and information. He 
has, besides, to thank the Rev. A. L. Mayhew for criticizing 
the glossary, and for furnishing him with some old French 
derivations, etc 

Oxford, Nov. 1888. 



XViil HEADINGS OF A8HM0LE M8. 1439. 

The Ashmole MS. gives, by collation, the following variations 
and additions, but a sheet or two of it is missing in the third part. 

Ft. I, No. vi, line 3, " sette," not sethe, also in viij, p. 7, line 3. 

xii, p. 8, line 1, A. adds, after "}*r-to," "temper hit wttt alle: take 
raysons of corance clene wasshid : put )em J*r-to." 

xiiij, line 5, A. reads "styne," i.e. stew, not stere : rightly. 

xxiiij, Title, A. "Brawne grnelle"; line 2, "pricke it." 

xxxiij, line 5, after Salt is added " then cut fair brewis, and dresse theym 
yn disshes, & cast J?e lire theron." 

xxxv, page 13, line 1, "leche them in faire gobettis, and pike out the 
core, and cast." 

xlv, line 4, " stne," altered from " streyne," for stere. 

xlviij, line 2, after Eoysouns, A. adds " ]?*rto, raisons"; rightly. 

lij, line 6, A. reads " sode in, and stepe J?er-on," making sense. 

lxvij, instead of [mynee], A. has " larde," i.e. " cut in thin slices." 

lxxx, after clene, A. adds, " and sethe J?em." 

lxxxiiij, line 6, "clene," before notvt; making sense. 

lxxxvij, line 7, after is, "& confecctbns or chare de qnynce a good 
qtaratite," inserted. 

Cix, lines 1, 2, "and lete wexe al white," not "an make hem alle J>e 
whyte." 

Cx, after Stokkefysshe A. adds, "or of freishe mylwel or codling," and 
reads "of Plays." 

Cxlv, line 6, "fro Je holys," rightly. 

Cliiij, line 3, A. omits sugre, (the " white " means "White of egg,) and in 
line 11 reads "a-boue" in place of " aneward." 

Ft. II, viij, last line on p. 35, " and " after Pepir, making sense. 

x, A. reads at line 6, an lot it " clene ou*r-renne." 

xij, page 37, A. adds " j?e Ius," after wrynge, and has no "j>e" before 
grene. 

xiiij, page 37, " jmnne take braw[n] y-broylyd and cast Jw-to," added 
after " j?er-to," in line 2. 

xvij, page 37, last line, A. reads, " and so ley hit colde in j?e dysshe, and 
J?at but a litil, j>at vnnethe j?e bottumys be holuyd." 

xxiij, page 39, line 1, the second salt is not in A. 

xxvij, page 39, A. reads "al aboute loke Jat" it be ransched; "and lete 
hit be wel sodyn," later. 



READINGS OF ASH MO LB MS.; AND ERRATA. XIX 

xxviij, page 40, after Eyroun, " and rawe creme or swete mylke," added. 

xxix, page 40, after Gredelle A. adds, " til hit be broune." 

xxxvij, p. 41, A. adds "fete," after Piggys, which is required; and 
reads " and moche sauge." 

xxxix, last line on page 41, A. reads "& do )>er-to a lytil ponder Canelle ;" 

xliv, page 42, last line, after panne, A. adds between lines, " & let frie 
y-nogfc." 

1, page 44, last line but two, A. adds " & let hete a litel," between lines, 
after "]>er-on," and in next line adds, "and leche it, or els al hole," 
after vp. 

lx, page 46, line eight, A. reads "white " before "Sugr*," not "wt'U-al." 

Ft. Ill, xvj, page 50, last line, A. adds, "but lete ]>e cofyns," before 
bake ; making sense. 

xxij, page 51, no blank. 

xxiij, page 52, A. adds after cofyn, line 8, " then caste in the sew rounde 
a-boute vppon hym yn Je cofyne," and makes sense. 

The Editor did not discover the Ashmole MS. till much of the first 
Cookery was in print, and consequently was unable to make full use of 
it for purpose of collation. The reader will kindly correct the following 
Errata, 
p. 15, note 4, read Lozenges in place of " long thin strips." 
p. 17, last line, dele comma after Almaunden. 
p. 19, 1. 4, put comma after mylke. 
p. 21, 1. 14, read slake Water; 4th line from bottom, read " jif it [cleue] 

nowt," with A. 
p. 27, 1. 17, read, " or hony caste Jer-to;" with no semicolon after hong. 
p. 31, 4th line from bottom, read tyrifti. 
p. 48, 1. 5, read " hele j?in cofyns." 

p. 49, 1. 7, read "or a bore, or, of a Bere:" 1. 8, put semicolon after 

"Eyroun;" and dele the semicolon after tgne, reading eg ue in 

place of that word, and also in place of the tyne in the line above. 

p. 50, 1. 20, read "for defaute," and before bottom line add, " but lete j>e 

cofyns," with A. 
p. 57, Heading 6, read "ad Episcopatum Bathonensem et "Wellensem." 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. I. 

HARLEIAN MS. 279, ab. 1420 a.d. 



1 Inoipit 11 Kalendar* de Potages dyuert. 



JLange wortys de chare ... .1. 
Lange wortys de Pesoun . . .ij. 

Iouutes iij. 

Caboges iiij. 

^ Whyte wortys v. 

Beff y-stywyd • .vj. 

Gruelle a-forcyd vij. 

Venysoun wit A furmenty . . .viij. 

Trype de Motoun ix. 

"Wardonys in Siryppe . . . .x. 

Froyde Almaundys xj. 

Fryit Creme of Almandys . . .xij. 

Creme y-boylid xiij. 

Quystys Scone xiiij. 

Bowres xv. 

Fylettys in galentyne . . . .xvi. 

Garbage .xvij. 

Pertryche stewyd xviij. 

Smale birdys y-stewyd . . . .xix. 

Papyns xx. 

Blandyssorye xxj. 

Venyson in brotbe xxij. 

Nomblys of J>e venysoun . . * .xxiij. 
Drawyn grwelle . . .- . , .xxiiij. 

Balloke brothe xxv. 

Coleys xxvj. 

Soupes dorye xxvij. 

Soupes Iamberlayne xxviij. 

Lyode Soppes xxix. 



No. Page No. Pag* 

.1. 5 Soupes dorroy xxx. 11 

5 Brawun en peuerade .. . . .xxxj. 11 

5 Anter brawnne en peuerade • .xxxij. 12 

6 Oyle soppis zxxiij. 12 

6 Charde wardoon .... .xxxiiij. 12 

6 Perys in composte xxxv. 12 

6 Vele, Kede, or B^enne in boke- 

6 nade xxxrj. 13 

7 Autre Vele in bokenade • • .xxxrij. 13 

7 Storion en bro]>e xxx viij. 13 

7 Oystres in grauy xxxix. 13 

7 Oystres in grauy bastard . • .xl. 13 

8 Gelyne in dubbate xlj. 13 

8 Conyng, Mawlard, in gely or 

8 in cyuey xlij 14 

8 Mprtrewys of Fyssbe . . . .xliij. 14 

9 Mortrewys de Fley&she . . .xliiij. 14 
9 For to make blaunche Perrey. .xlv. 14 

9 Pommes xlvj. 14 

9 Cawdelle Ferry .xlvij. 15 

9 Taylowres xlviij. 15 

10 Bryndons xlix. 15 

10 A potage on a Fyssbe day . .1. 15 

10 Cawdel de Almaunde . . . .Ij. 16 

10 Gyngaudre Iij. 16 

10 Bapeye Iiij. 16 

11 Bapeye liiij. 16 

11 Iuscbelle of Fyssbe lv. 16 

11 Charlotte lrj. 17 



i 



leaf I. 



CONTENTS OF HARLEIAN MS. 279. FOTAGES DYUERS. 



lente 



fyre 



No. 
Jvij. 
.lviij. 
.lix. 



Cbarlette a-forcyd ryaly . 

Let Lory 

Furmenty w*tA purpaysse * 

Trypeof Turbutorof Codlyng .lx. 

A gos in hogepotte 

Gonyngys in graueye 

HaryB in cyney . . 

Capon in Consewe . 

Hennys in bruette . 

Bruet Sareson . . 

Bract of Almayne 

Bruet of Almaynne in 

Whyte Mortrewys 

Faintempere . , 

Murrey .... 

TalbottyB . . , 

Conyngys in cyuey 

Arbolettys . „ . 

Spyneye .... 

Brasele .... 

Creme de Colonre . 

Golouryd sew wstAout 

Apple mose . . 

Salomene . . 

Blaundyssorye . 

Blamangere . . 

Vyand de cyprys bastard 

Vyand de cyprys ryalle 

Gaylede. . . . 

Rys 

Mammenye ryalle 
Mammenye bastard 3 
Elys in Gauncely . 
Hennys in Gauncely 
Vyolette . . . 
Oystrys in bruette 
"Walkys in bruette 
Tenche in bruette 
Tenche in cyueye . 
Tencbe in Sauce . 
Cbykonys in bruette 
Blamang*r of Fyssbe 
Sardeynejs . . . 
Roseye . . . 
Eyroun in poche 

1 leaf 2. 



17 

7 
7 
8 
8 



,lxj 

.lxij. 

.liiij. 

.lxiiij. 

.lxv. 

.lxvj. 

.lxvij. 

.lxviij. 

.lxix. 

.lxx. 

.lxxj. 

.lxxij. 

.lxxiij. 

.lxziiij. 

.lxxv. 

Jxxvj. 

.lxxvij. 

.lxxviij. 

.lxxix. 

.lux. 

.lxxxj. 

.lxxxij. 

.lxxxiij. 

.lxxxiiij. 

.Ixxxy. 

.lxxxvj. 

.lxxxvij. 

.lxxxviij. 

.lxxxix. 

.lxiii. 

Jxxxxj. 

.lxxxxij. 

.lxxxiiij. 

.lxxxxiiij. 

.lxx xxv. 

.lxxxxvj. 

.lxxxxvij. 23 

.lxxxxviij. 23 

.lxxxxix. 24 

.0. 24 

.Cj. 24 

2 leaf 



8 
8 
8 
8 
9 
9 
9 
9 
9 
9 
9 

20 
20 
20 
20 
20 
20 
20 
21 
21 
21 
21 
21 
22 
22 
22 
22 
22 
23 
23 
23 
23 



23 



No. Page 

Muskelys in bruette . . . .Cij. 24 

Fygeye Ciij. 24 

Bolas .Ciiij. 24 

Lorey de botes Cv. 25 

Eapeye of Fleysshe . . . .Crj. 25 

Soresengle Cvij. 25 

Frymerose Cviij. 25 

Gelye de chare Cix. 25 

GelyedeFysshe Cx. 26 

Tannye CxL 26 

Sturmye Cxij. 26 

Bruette sake Cxiij. 27 

Taylys Cxiiij. 27 

Quynade Cxr. 27 

Blaunche de ferry . . . .Cxvj. 27 

Sawge 8 Cxvij. 28 

Murreye Oxviij. 28 

Vyaunde de cypryB in Lente .Cxix. 28 

Whyte Mortrewys of Forke. .Cxx. 28 

Bapeye Cxij. 28 

A rede morreye Cxxij. 28 

Stawberye Cxxiij. 29 

Cbyrioun Cxxiiij. 29 

Vyolette Cxxv. 29 

Rede Rose Cxx^*. *29 

Prymerose Cxxvij. 29 

Flourys of bawforn . . . .Cxxviij. 29 

A potage on a fyssbeday . .Cxxix. 29 

Braes in lente Cxxx. 29 

A potage colde Cxxxj. 30 

Sauke sarsoun Cxxxij. 30 

Rapeye Cxxxiij. 30 

Apple moyle Cxxxiiij. 30 

Applade Ryal Cxxxv. 30 

A potage of Roysonys . . .Cxxxvj. 30 

Cbykonys in dropey . . . .Cxxxvij. 90 

Fumpes Cxxxyiij. 31 

Caudel Ferry departy wttA 

ablamangir Cxxxix. 31 

Egredouncye Cxi. 31 

Noteye Cxij. 31 

Vyaunde Ryal .Cxlij. 32 

Lampreys in galentyne . . .Cxiiij. 32 

Cbyconys wyth J>e brewes . .Cxliiij. 32 

Blauncbe pereye- Cxlv. 32 

2bk. 8 UafZ. 



CONTENTS OF HARLBIAN MS. 279. LECHE METYS. 



No. Page 

Rythsocaboges 1 Czlvj. 33 

Brewes in lentyn Czlvij. 33 

Whyte pesyn in grauey . . .Czlviij. 33 
A potage Czliz* 33 



No. Page 

Caudel owt of lentyn . . . .CL 33 

Creme bastard: Clj. 33 

Capon in salome Clij. 33 

Pompys Oliij. 34 



3 Hie incipit Kalendar* de Leehe Xetji. 
Brawn in comfyte j 



Blaunche brann ij. 

Pynade iij. 

- Gyngere brede iiij. 

Leche Lumbard t. 

Auter manor leche Lumbard . .vj. 

Soupes of salomere ^j- 

Lete lardys viij. 

Mange moleyn iz. 

Vyand de Leche z. 

Vyand Leche zj. 

Vyand Leche .zij. 

Vyand leche ziij. 

Vyand leche ziiij. 

Storionn leche it. 

Chare de warden leche . . .ivj. 

Vyand leche zvij. 

Vyand leche zyiij. 

Pome dorres ziz. 

Yrchons zz. 

An en tray le zzj. 

For to make Floure of Bys . .zzij. 

Pome garnej .ixiij. 

Waffres zziiij. 

Hagws of a schepe zzy. 

Franchemyle xzvj. 

Apprayler xzvij. 

Cokyntryce zzviij. 

MylkeRostyd 8 zziz. 

Alowys de Beef or Motoun . .zzz. 
To make stekys of Venysoun 

or Beef xzzj. 

A Syrippe pnr yn Pestelle . .zzzij. 
PyggeFarcyd zzziij. 



34 Pnddyng of Caponn necke . .zzziiij. 41 

34 Caponn or goos farcyd . . .zzzr. 41 

34 Poceronnce zzztj. 41 

35 Sauoge zzzyij. 41 

35 A kyde a-force zxzviij. 41 

35 Eyroun in lente .... .zzziz. 41 

35 Pnddyng of Purpays . . . jd. 42 

35 Baynollys zlj. 42 

36 Froyse in lente zlij. 42 

36 Payn pnrdew zliij. 42 

36 Meselade zliiij. 42 

36 Brawn fryej ...... .zIt. 43 

37 Longe Fretoure zlvj. 43 

37 Bapeye zlyij. 43 

37 Bnschewys in lente . . . .zlyiij. 43 

37 Hanoney zliz. 43 

37 Hagase de Almayne ... .1. 44 

38 Cryspis Ij. 44 

38 BnBchewys of Marw . . . .Iij. 44 

38 Lesynges de chare Iiij. 44 

38 Fretoure * Jiiij. 44 

38 ChawettyB fryej lv. 45 

38 Tansye Ivj. * 45 

39 Froyse out of lentyn . . . .lvij. 45 
39 [One leaf is misting here; the contents are 
39 supplied from the text.] 

39 [Ryschewys close & Fryez . .lviij. 45 

40 Nese Bekys liz. 45 

40 Mylez in Bapeye Iz. 46 

40 CrusteBolle lzj. 46 

Chawettys a-forsed lzij. 46 

40 Fretoure owt of lente . • . .Ixiij. 46 

40 Towres lziiij 46 

40 



Here begynnyth dyuerse bake metii. 

Tartes de Chare j. 47 Daryoles iiij. 47 

A-no)>er manere ij. 47 A-nother manere t. 47 

A-no]>er manere iij. 47 Tartes of Fyssche vi 47 

1 leafZ bk. * leaf I. J leaf \ bk. 



CONTENTS OF HARLEIAN MS. 279. BAKE METYS. 



No. 

Chawettys rij. 

Chawettys viij. 

Malmenye Furnez ix» 

Rapeye .x. 

Tartes of Frute in lente . . .xj. 
Un vyaunde fame) Ban) noiim 

de chare xij. 

Tin vyaunde furnej sanj now 

de chare xiij. 

Pety Pernollys xiiij. 

Douoetej xv. 

Crustade ivj. 

Grastadelumhard xvij. 

Flathons xriij. 

Venyson y-bake xix. 

Pety Pernaunt» . . ; . . .zx. 
Quyncis or Wardowns in past . .zxj. 
Lamprotms y-bake ..... .xxij. 

Lamprays bake xziij, 



Page No. Pajre 

48 Tart** de chare zxiiij. 62 

48 Rastons axv. 62 

48 Darioles .xxvj. 63 

48 Pyej de pare) xxvij. 63 

48 Potrous ....... .xxviij. 63] 

1 Flampoyntys bake . . . .xxix. 63 

49 Sewtrappe .in. 64 

Herbelade zzxj. 64 

49 A Bake Mete xxxij. 64 

60 A Bake Mete Ryalle • . . .xxiiij 66 

60 CrustafleByal xzxiiij. 65 

60 Crustade .xxxy. 65 

61 Crustade gentyle xxxvj. 55 

61 Doucettys xxxrij. 66 

61 Doucettys a-forcyd . . . .xxxviij. 66 

61 Daryole) xxxix. 66 

61 Daryole) .xl. 66 

61 Flathons in lente xlj. 66 

62 

1 leaf 5. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POT AGE DYVERS. 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. I; 

Ab. 1420 a.d. 



'POTAGE DYVERS. 

g. Lange Wortys de chare. — Take beeff and merybonys, and boyle yt in 
fayre water; Jan take fayre wortys and wassche hem clene in water, and 
parboyle hem in clene water ; Jan take hem Tp of Je water after Je fyrst 
boylyng, an cnt Je lenys a-to or a-Jre, and caste hem in-to Je beff, and boyle 
to gederys: Jan take a lof of whyte brede and grate yt, an caste it on Je 
pot, an safron & salt, & let it boyle y-now, and serue forth. 

4j. Lange Wortes de pesonn. — Take grene pesyn, an washe hem clene 
an caste hem on a potte, an boyle hem tyl Jey breste, an Janne take hem 
vppe of Je potte, an pnt hem with brothe yn a-nojer potte, and lete hem 
kele ; Jan draw hem Jorw a straynowre in-to a fayre potte, an Jan take 
oynonys, and screde hem in to or Jre, an take hole wortys and boyle hem 
in fayre water : and take hem vppe, an ley hem on a fayre bord, an cytte 
on .iij. or iiij., an ley hem to Je oynonys in Je potte, to Je drawyd pesyn ; 
an let hem boyle tyl Jey ben tendyr; an Janne tak fayre oyle and frye 
hem, or ellys sum fresche broje of sum maner fresche fyBshe, an caste Jer-to, 
an Safron, an salt a quantyte, and serne it forth. 

.ujj. Jouteft. — Take Borage, Yyolet, Malwys, Percely, Yong Wortys, Bete, 
Alienee, Longebeff, wyth Orage an ojer, pyke hem clene, and caste hem 
on a vessel, and boyle hem a goode whyle ; Jan take hem and presse hem 
on a fayre bord, an hew hem ryght smal, an put whyte brede Jer-to, an 
grynd wyth-al ; an Jan caste hem in-to a fayre potte, an gode freshe brothe 
y-now Jer-to Jorw a straynowr, [& caste] Jer-to .ij. or Aij. Marybonys, or 
ellys fayre fresche brothe of beff, and let hem sethe to-gederys a whyle : 

Ueaf 6. 



6 COOKERY BOOK. I. HA RLE I AN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 

an Jan caste Jer-to Safron, and let hem sethe to-gederys a whyle, an fan 
caste Jer-to safron and salt; and seme it forth in a dysshe, an bakon 
y-boylyd in a-nojer dysshe, as men seruyth furmenty wyth venyson. 

1 .mj. Caboges. — Take fayre caboges, an cutte hem, an pike hem clene 
and clene washe hem, an parboyle hem in fayre water, an Janne presse 
hem on a fayre bord ; an Jan choppe hem, and caste hem in a faire pot 
with goode freysshe broth, an wyth mery-bonys, and let it boyle : Jaime 
grate fayre brede and caste Jer-to, an caste Jer-to Safron an salt ; or ellys 
take gode grwel y-mad of freys flesshe, y-draw Jorw a straynowr, and 
caste Jer-to. An whan Jou seruyst yt inne, knocke owt Je marw of Je 
bonys, an ley Je marwe .ij. gobettys or .iij. in a dysshe, as Je semyth best, 
& serue forth. 

.v. Whyte wortes. — Take of Je erbys lyke as Jon dede for pirates, and 
sethe hem [in] water tyl Jey ben neyshe ; Janne take hem vp, an bryse 
hem fayre on a bord, as drye as Jow may ; Jan choppe hem smale, an caste 
hem on a potte, an ley hem with flowre of Rye ; take mylke of almanndys, 
an cast Jer-to, & hony, nowt to moche, J at it be nowt to swete, an safron 
& salt ; an serue it forth ynne, ryjth for a good potage. 

.yj. Beef y-Stywyd. — Take fayre beef of Je rybbys of Je fore quarterys, 
an smyte in fayre pecys, an wasche Je beef in-to a fayre potte ; Jan take 
Je water Jat Je beef was sojin yn, an strayne it Jorw a straynowr, an sethe 
Je same water and beef in a potte, an let hem boyle to-gederys ; Jan take 
canel, clowes, maces, graynys of parise, quibibes, and oynons y-mynced, 
pwceli, an sawge, an caste Jer-to, an let hem boyle to-gederys ; an Jan 
take a lof of brede, an stepe it with brothe an venegre, an Jan draw it Jorw 
a straynoure, and let it be stylle ; an whan it is nere y-now, caste Je lycour 
Jer-to, but nowt to moche, an Jan let boyle onys, an cast safroun Jer-to a 
quantyte; Jan take salt an venegre, and cast Jer-to, an loke Jat it be 
poynaunt y-now, & s*rue forth. 

.vij. Gruelle a-forsydde. — Take otemele, an grynd it smal, an sethe it 
s wyl, an porke Jer-ynne, an pulle of Je swerde 8 an pyke owt Je bonys, an 
Jan hewe it, an grynd it smal in a morter ; Jan neme Jin 4 grwel an do 
Jer-to, Jan strayne it Jorw a straynour, an put it in a potte an sethe it a 
lytel, an salt it euene 5 ; an colour it wyth safroun, an serue forth rennyng. 

.viij. Venyson with Furmenty. — Take whete and pyke it clene, and do it 
in a morter, an caste a lytel water Jer-on ; an stampe wttA a pestel tyl it 

1 If. 6 back. a leaf 7 (ti>yj=well). 8 sward, rind, skin. 4 thine. 6 equally. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAOE DYVERS. 7 

bole ' ; Jan fan owt J?e holyV an put it in a potte, an let sethe tyl it breke ; 
fan set yt douuw, an sone after set it ouer J?e fyre, an stere it wyl ; an whan 
Jjow bast sotbyn it wyl, put ]>er-inne swete mylke, an sej?e it y-fere, an stere 
it wyl ; and whan it is y-now, coloure it wyth safron, an salt it euene, and 
dresse it forth, & )>in venyson in a-nother dyshe wttA fayre hot water. 

.ix. Trype de Motonn. — Take }e powncbe of a cbepe, and make it clene, 
an caste it on a pot of boylyng water, an skyme it clene, an gader }e grace 
al a- way, an lat it boyle tyl it be tender ; Jmn ley it on a fayre bord, an 
kyt it in smale pecys of the' peny brede, an caste it on an erj?en pot with 
strong brothe of bef or of moton ; J7anne take lenys of }e percely an hew 
hem )>*r-to, an let hem boyle to-gederys tyl J?ey byn tender, J?an take 
powder of gyngere, and verious, Jan take [Safroun] 4 an salt, and caste 
Jer-to, an let boyle to-gederys, an seme in. 

.x. Wardonys in syryp. — Take wardonys, an caste on a potte, and boyle 
hem till \>ey ben tender ; Jan take hem vp and pare hem, an kytte hem in 
to pecys ; take y-now of powder of canel, a good qnantyte,. an caste it on 
red wyne, an draw it Jorw a straynour ; caste sngre J?er-to, an put it [in] an 
erjen pot, an let it boyle : an Jeanne caste Je perys Jer-to, an let boyle to- 
gederys, an whan Jey haue boyle a whyle, take pouder of gynger* an caste Jer- . 
to, an a lytil venegre, an. a lytil safron ; an loke J?at it be poynaunt an dowcet. 

•jrj. Froyde almoundys. — Take blake sugre, an cold water, an do hem 
to 7 in a fayre potte, an let hem boyle to-gedere, an salt it an skeme it clene, 
an let it kele; Jan take almaundys, an blawnche hem clene, an stampe 
hem, an draw hem, wit/* Je sugre water thikke y-now, in-to a fayre vessel : 
an [yf ] Je mylke be nojt swete y-now, take whyte sugre an caste Jer-to. 

.xij. Fride Creme of Almaundys. — Take almaundys, an stampe hem, an 
draw it vp wyth a fyne thykke mylke, y-temperyd wyth clene water ; throw 
hem on, an sette hem in Je fyre, an let boyle onys : Jan tak hem a-down, 
an caste salt Jer-on, an let hem reste a f orlongwey 8 or to, an caste a lytyl 
sugre Jer-to ; an fan caste it on a fayre lynen clothe, fayre y-wasche an 
drye, an caste it al a-brode on Je clothe with a fayre ladel : an let Je clothe 
ben holdyn a-brode, an late all Je water vnder-nethe Je clothe be had a- way, 
an Janne gadere alio Je kreme in Je clothe, an let hongy on an pyn, and let 
Je water droppe owt to 7 or .iij. owrys ; Jan take it of Je pyn, an put it on a 
bolle of tre, and caste whyte 6ugre y-now Jer-to, an a lytil salt ; and jif it 

1 Hull, lose tbe husks. * Hulls; husks. 3 MS. thty. * Added from A. 

• P-'in two pieces.' 6 If. 7 bk. 7 two. 8 Other MS. forlange. 



8 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGB DYVBR8. 



wexe Jrikke, take swete wyn an put Jw-to Jrat it be nojt sene : and whan it 
is I-dressid in the maner of mortrewys, take red anys in comfyte, or }>e leuys 
of borage, an sette hem on j?e dysshe, an serne forth. 

.xiij. Creme Boylede. — Take creme or mylke, & 1 brede of paynemayn, 
or ellys of tendyr brede, an breke it on J?e creme, or elles in )>e mylke, an 
set it on fe fyre tyl it be warme hot ; and J*>rw a straynonr Jrowe it, and 
put it in-to a fayre potte, an sette it on J>e fyre, an stere euermore : an whan 
it is almost y-boylyd, take fayre plkys of eyron, an draw hem Jorw a 
straynowr, and caste hem Jer-to, and let hem stonde ouer the fyre tyl it 
boyle almost, an till s it be skylf ully s Jikke ; Jan 4 caste a ladel-ful, or more 
or lasse, of boter j?er-to, an a good quantite of whyte sugre, and a litel salt, 
an Jmn dresse it on a dysshe in maner of mortrewys. 

.xiiij. ftnystis Sonne. — Take a pece of beef or of mutoun, and wyne and 
fayre water, and caste in-to a potte, an late hem boyle, an skeme it wyl an 
clene; Jan take quystw, an stoppe hem wyth-in wyth hole pepyr, and 
marwe, an Jan caste hem in-to Je potte, an ceuere wyl Je potte, an let hem 
stere ryjth wyl to-gederys; an Jan take powder gyngere, and a lytel 
yerious an salt, and caste Jer-to, an Janne seme hem forth in a fayre dysshe, 
a quyste or to in a dysshe, in Je maner of a potage : an whan Jowe shalt 
serue hem forth, take a lytil of Je broth, an put on dysshe wyth quystys, an 
seme forth. 

.xv. Bowres. — Take Pypis, Hertys, Nerys, Myltys, an Bybbys of the 
Swyne ; or ellys take Mawlard, or Gees, an chop hem smal, and thanne 
parboyle hem in fayre water ; an Jan take it Tp, and pyke it clene in-to a 
fayre potte, an caste Jer-to ale y-now, & sawge an salt, and )>an boyle it 
ryjth wel ; and ]?anne serue it f orthe for a goode potage. 

.zvj. Fylettys en Galentyne. — Take fayre porke, }e fore quarter, an 
take of J?e skyne ; an put J>e porke on a fayre spete, an rost it half y-now ; 
}?an take it of, an smyte it in fayre pecys, & caste it on a fayre potte ; J?an 
take oynonys, and schrede hem, an pele hem (an pyle hem nowt to smale), an 
f rye in a panne of fayre grece ; J?an caste hem in }e potte to J?e porke ; fan 
take gode broth of moton or of beef, an caste J>er-to, an J?an caste ^er-to 
pouder pepyr, canel, clowys, an macys, an let hem boyle wyl to-gederys ; 
Jan tak fayre brede, an vynegre, an stepe J>e brede with J?e same brothe, an 
strayne it on blode, with ale, or ellys sawnderys, and "salt, an lat hym boyle 
y-now, an serue it forth. 

i MS. or. * MS, \ow. * reasonably. * leaf 8. • leaf 8 bk. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 9 

.xvij. Garbage. — Take fayre garbagys of chykonys, as Je hed, Je fete, Je 
lyuerys, an Je gysowrys; washe bem clene, an caste hem in a fayre potte, 
an caste Jer-to freysshe brotbe of Beef or ellys of nioton, an let it boyle ; an 
a-lye it wytb brede, an ley on Pepir an Safroun, Maces, Clowys, an a lytil 
verious an salt, an seme forth in the maner as a Sewe. 

.xviij. Pertrieh stewyde. — Take fayre mary, 1 brotbe of Beef or of Motou*, 
an whan it is wyl sothyn, take Je brothe owt of Je potte, an strayne it 
thorw a straynow, an put it on an erjen potte ; Jan take a gode quantyte 
of wyne, as Jow it were half, an put Jer-to; Jan take Je pertryche, an 
stuffe hym wyth hole pepir, an merw, 2 an than sewe Je ventys of Je 
pertriche, an take clowys an maces, & hole pepir, an caste it in-to Je potte, 
an let it boyle to-gederys ; an whan Je pertryche is boylid y-now, take Je 
potte of Je fyre, an whan thou schalt serue hym forth, caste in-to Je potte 
powder gyngere, salt, safron, an serue forth. 

.xiz. Smale Byrdys y-stwyde. — Take smale byrdys, an pulle hem an 
drawe hem clene, an washe hem fayre, an schoppe of Je leggys, and frye hem 
in a panne of freyBshe grece ryjt wyl ; Jan ley hem on a fayre lynen clothe, 
an lette Je grece renne owt ; Jan take oynonys, an mynce hem smale, an 
frye hem on fayre freysshe grece, an caste hem on an erjen potte; 
Jan take a gode porcyon of canel, an wyne, an draw Jorw a straynoure, an 
caste in-to Je potte wttA Je oynonys ; Jan caste Je bryddys Jer-to, an clowys, 
an maces, an a lytil quantyte of powder pepir J?er-to, an lete hem boyle 
to-gederys y-now ; Jan caste Jer-to whyte sugre, an powder gyngere, salt, 
safron, an serue it forth. 

.xx. Papyns. — Take fayre Mylke an Flowre, an drawe it Jorw a 'strayn- 
oure, an set it ouer J>e fyre, an let it boyle a-whyle ; Jan take it owt an 
let it kele ; Jan take jolkys of eyroun y-draw Jorwe a straynour, an caste 
Jer-to; Jan take sugre a gode quantyte, and caste Jer-to, an a lytil salt, 
an sette it on Je fyre tyl it be sum -what Jikke, but let it nowt boyle 
fullyche, an stere it wyl, an putte it on a dysshe alle a-brode, and serue 
forth rennyng. 

.xxj. Blandissorye. — Take almaundys, an blawnche hem, an grynde hem 
in a morter, an tempore hem with freysshe broje of capoun or of beef, an 
swete wyne ; an jif it be lente or fyssday, take brothe of Je freysshe fysshe, 
an swete wyne, an boyle hem to-gederys a goode whyle ; Jenne take it up, 
an caste it on a fayre lynen cloje Jat is clene an drye, an draw under Je 

1 Marrow. No. 28, in Douce MS., has my\ty brothe. 8 Marrow. s If. 9. 



10 COOKERY BOOK. I. HABLEIAN MS. 279. POTAOB DYVERS. 

clo]?e, wyth a ladel, alle J?e water J?at ]?ow may fynde, ryth as ]>ow makyst 
cold creme ; Jmnne take owt of the potte, an caste it in-to a fayre potte, an 
let it boyle ; an Janne take brawn of Capoun, an tese it smal an bray it [in] 
a morter : or ellys on a fyssday take Pyke or Elys, Codlyng or Haddok, an 
temper it with almauw mylke, an caste Sugre y-now Jer-to ; An Jan caste 
hem in-to Je potte and, lete hem boyle to-gederys a goode whyle : Jenne 
take it owt of Je potte alle hote, an dresse it in a dysshe, as meni 1 don 
cold creme, an sette Jer-on Bed Anys in comfyte, or ellys Allemaundys 
blaunchid, an Janne serue it forth for a goode potage. 

.xxy. Venyson in Broth. — Take Eybbys of Venysoun, and wasshe hem 
clene in fayre water, an strayne Je same water Jorw a straynoure in-to a 
potte, an caste Jer-to Venysoun, also Percely, Sawge, powder Pepyr, Clowys, 
Maces, Yynegre, and a lytyl Red wyne caste Jere-to ; an Janne latte it boyle 
tyl it be y-now, & s*rue forth. 

.xxiij. Nomblys of Je venyson. — Take Je Nombles of Venysoun, an cutte 
hem smal whyle Jey ben raw ; Jan take Freyssh* broje, Watere, an Wyne, 
of eche a quantyte, an powder Pepir an Canel, and let hem 'boyle to-gederys 
tyl it be almost y-now ; An Jenne caste powder Gyngere, an a lytil venegre 
an Salt, an sesyn it vp, an Janne serue it forth in Je maner of a gode 
potage. 

.xxiiij. Drawyn grwel. — Take fayre water an lene Bef, an let hem 
boyle ; an whan Je beef hath y-boylid, take it vp an pyke it, an lete it blede 
in-to s a vessel, an Jenne caste Je blode an Je Fleysshe in-to a potte ; an 
Janne caste Jer-to Otemele, Percely, & Sawge, an make Jer-of an gode 
grwele ; Jen draw it Jorw a straynowre, an putte it on a fayre potte, an let it 
boyle ; Jann$ caste Jer-to Salt ; An jif it be nowt brown y-now, take a litil 
blode an caste J$r-to or it be y-draw, an make it broun y-now, an serue 
it forth. 

.xxv. Balloke Brothe. — Take Elys and fle hem, an kytte hem in gobowns, 
an caste hem in-to a fayre potte with fayre water ; Jan take Percely and 
Oynonys, an schrede hem to-gederys nowt to smal ; take Clowes, Maces, an 
powder Pepyr, an caste Jer-to a gode porcyon of wyne ; Jen take jest of New 
ale an caste Jer-to, an let boyle : an when Je Elys byn wyl y-boylid, take 
fayre stokfysshe, an do a- way Je skyn, an caste Jer-to, an let boyle a whyle ; 
Jen take Safroun and Salt, an a lytil Venegre, an caste Jer-to, an serue forth. 

.xxyj. Coleys. — Take a gode Capoun an boyle hem tendere, an pyke a- way 
1 MS. men. * If. 9 bk. 3 MS. bled* in-to, repeated. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POrAGE DYVERS. 11 

clone Je bonys an Je Skyn, an bray hym in a morter, an tempere hym wyth 
Je same brothe, an strayne hym Jorw a straynoure ; Jenne take Je brawn an 
Je fleysshe, an a ly til whyte brede, an bray hem alle to-gederys in a morter ; 
Jen take Je lycowr of Je bonys, an Je skyn, an Je brothe Jat Je Capoun was 
sothyn ynne, an with al tempere it, bnt nowt to Jicke ; Jen put it in a potte, 
an let it be al hote, bnt let it boyle for no Jing ; an caste Jer-to a litil powder 
of Gyngere, Sngre an Salt. An jif it be on a fyssheday, take Haddok, 
Pyke, Tenche, Rejge, Codlynd, an pyke a-way Je bonys *an tempere wyth 
almaunde mylke ; an make it hot, an caste Jer-to Sugre an Salt, an serue 
forth. 

.xxvij. Soupes dorye. — Take gode almannde mylke y-draw wyth wyn, 
an let hem boyle to-gederys, an caste Jer-to Safroun an Salt ; an Jan take 
Paynemayn, an kytte it an toste it, an wete it in wyne, an ley it on a 
dysshe, an caste Je syrip Jer-on. And Jan make a dragge of powder 
Gyngere, Sugre, canel, Clowes, Maces, an caste Jer-on When it is y-dressid, 
an serue Janne forth for a potage gode. 

.xxvirj. Soupes Jamberlayne. 2 — Take Wyne, Canel, an powder of 
Gyngere, an Sugre, an of eche a porcyoun, Jan take a straynoure & hange it 
on a pynne, an caste ale Jer-to, an let renne twyis or Jryis throgh, tyl it 
renne clere ; an Jen take Paynemaynne an kyt it in maner of brewes, an 
toste it, an wete it in J e same lycowre, an ley it on a dysshe, an caste 
blawnche powder y-now Jer-on; an Jan caste Je same lycowr vp-on Je 
same soppys, [an] serue hem forth in maner of a potage. 

.xxix. Lyode Soppei.— Take Mylke an boyle it, an Janne take ;olkys of 
eyroun y-tryid fro Je whyte, an draw hem Jorwe A straynoure, an caste hem 
in-to Je mylke, an sette it on Je fyre an hete it, but let it nowt boyle ; an 
stere it wyl tyl it be somwhat Jikke ; Jenne caste Jer-to Salt & Sugre, an 
kytte fayre paynemaynnys in round soppys, an caste Je soppys Jer-on, an 
serue it forth for a potage. 

.xxx. Soupes dorroy. — Shere Oynonys, an frye hem in oyle ; Janne take 
Wyne, an boyle with Oynonys, toste whyte Brede an do on a dysshe, an 
caste Jer-on gode Almaunde Mylke, & temper it wyth wyne : Janne do Je 
dorry a-bowte, an messe it forth. 

8 xx^j. Brawn en Peuerade. — Take Wyne an powder Canel, and draw it 
Jorw a straynour, an sette it on Je fyre, and lette it boyle, an caste Jef-to 
Clowes, Maces, an powder Pepyr ; Jan take smale Oynonys al hole, an 
) leaf 10. » Chamberlain. * leaf 10 bk. 



12 COOKERY BOOK. I. HABLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVBRS. 

par-boyle hem in hot watere, an caste Jer-to, and let hem boyle to-gederys ; 
Jan take Brawn, an lesshe it, but nowt to Jinne. An pf it sowsyd be, lete 
it stepe a whyle in hot water tyl it be tendere, Jan caste it to Je Sirip ; Jen 
take Sawnderys, an Vynegre, an caste Jer-to, an lete it boyle alle to-gederys 
tyl it be y-now ; Jen take Gyngere, an caste Jer-to, an so serne forth ; but 
late it be nowt to Jikke ne to Jinne, but as potage shulde be. 

.xxxij. Auter brawn en peuerade. — Take myghty brothe of Beef or of 
Capoun, an Jenne take clene Preysshe Brawn, an sethe it, but not y-now; An 
jif it be Freysshe Brawn, roste it, but not I-now, an Jan leche it in pecys, 
an caste it to Je brothe. An Janne take hoole Oynonys, & pylle hem, an 
Janne take Vynegre Jer-to, and Canelle, and sette it on Je fyre, an draw yt 
Jorw a straynoure, and caste Jer-to ; Jen take Clowys, Maces, an powder 
Pepyr, an caste Jer-to, and a lytil Saunderys, an sette it on Je fyre, an let 
boyle tylle Je Oynonys an Je Brawn ben euyne sothyn, an nowt to moche ; Jan 
take lykoure y-mad of Bred an Vinegre an Wyne, an sesyn it vp, an caste 
Jer-to Saffroun to make Je coloure bryth, an Salt, an seme it forth. 

.xxxitj. Oyle Soppys. — Take a gode quantyte of Oynonys, an mynse hem 
not to smale, an sethe in fayre "Water : Jan take hem vp, an take a gode 
quantite of Stale Ale, as .iij. galouns, an Jer-to take a pynte of Oyle fryid, 
an caste Je Oynonys Jer-to, an let boyle alle to-gederys a gode whyle,; then 
caste Jer-to Safroune, powder Pepyr, Sugre, an Salt, an serue forth alle hote 
as tost**, *as in Je same maner for a Mawlard & of a capon, & hoc quart.* 

.xxxiv. Chardewardon. — Take Pere "Wardonys, an settle hem in Wyne or 
in fayre water ; Jan take an grynd in a morter, an drawe hem Jorwe a strayn- 
oure wyth-owte ony lycoure, an put hem in a potte with Sugre and 
clarifiyd hony, an Canel y-now, an lete hem boyle ; Jan take it fro Je fyre, 
an let kele, an caste Jer-to jolkys of Baw eyroun, tylle it be Jikke ; & caste 
Jer-to ponder Gyngere y-now, an serue it in manere of Pysshe ; 8 an jif if it be 
in lente, lef Je jolkys of Eyroun, & lat Je remenaunt boyle so longe tylle it 
be Jikke, as Jow it had be temp*ryd wyth Je jolkys, in Je maner of charde 
quynce ; an so serue hem in maner of Rys. 

.xxxv. Perys en Composte.— Take Wjne an Canel, & a gret dele of Whyte 
Sugre, an set it on Je fyre & hete it hote, but let it nowt boyle, an draw it 
Jorwe a straynoure ; Jan take fayre Datys, an pyke owt Je stonys, an leche hem 
alle Jinne, an caste Jer-to ; Janne take Wardonys, an pare hem and sethe hem, 

1 If* 11. * ' look for this ; see this,' generally q.v. 

8 For Ey$ ; see Douce MS. No. 63, and the end of this recipe. A. also reads JUoht. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLE1AN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 13 

an leche hem alio Jinne, & caste Jer-to in-to Je Syryppe : Janne take a lytil 
Sawnderys, and caste Jer-to, an sette it on Je fyre ; an jif Jow hast charde 
quynce, caste Jer-to in Je boyling, an loke Jat it stonde wyl with Sugre, an 
wyl lyid wyth Canel, an caste Salt Jer-to, an let it boyle ; an Jan caste yt 
on a treen vessel, & lat it kele, & serue f [orth]. 

.xxxvj. Vele, kede, or henne in Bokenade.— Take Vele, Kyde, or Henne, 
an boyle bem in fayre Water, or ellys in freysshe brotbe, an smyte bem in 
pecys, an pyke bem clene ; an Jan draw Je same brotbe Jorwe a straynoure, 
an caste Jer-to Percely, Sawge, Ysope, Maces, Clowys, an let boyle tyl Je 
flessbe be y-now ; Jan sette it from Je fyre, & a-lye it vp with raw jolkys of 
eyronn, & caste Jer-to ponder Gyngere, Yeriows, Safronn, & Salt, & Janne 
serue it forth for a gode mete. 

'.xxxvij. Autre Vele en bokenade. — Take Vele, an Make it clene, and 
bakke it to gobettys, an setbe it ; an take fat brothe, an tempo- vp Jine 
Almaundys Jat Jon bast y-grounde, an lye it with Flowre of Eys, and do 
Jer-to gode powder of Gyngere, & Galyngale, Canel, Maces, Quybybis, and 
Oynonys y-mynsyd, & Roysonys of coraunce, & coloure yt wyth Safroun, and 
put Jer-to Jin Vele, & serue f[orth]. 

.xxxviij. Storion in brothe. — Take fayre Freysshe Storgeoun, an choppe 
it in fayre water ; Janne take it fro Je fyre, an strayne Je brothe Jorw a 
straynoure in-to a potte, an pyke clene Je Fysshe, an caste Jer-to powder 
Fepir, Clowes, Maces, Canel ; & Janne take fayre Brede, and stepe it in Je 
same lycowre, & caste Jer-to, an let boyle to-gederys, & caste Jen Safroun 
Jer-to, Gyngere, an Salt, & Vynegre, & Janne serue it forth ynne. a 

.ixl. 1 Oystres en grauey. — Take gode Mylke of Almaundys, an drawe it 
wyth Wyne an gode Fysshe broje, an sette it on Je fyre, & let boyle ; & 
caste Jer-to Clowes, Maces, Sugre an powder Gyngere, an a fewe parboylid 
Oynonys y-mynsyd ; Jan take fayre Oystrys, & parboyle bem in fayre Water, 
& caste hem Jer-to, an lete hem boyle to-gederys ; & Janne serue hem forth. 

.xl. Oystrys in granj bastard. — Take grete Oystrys, an schale hem ; an 
take Je water of Je Oystrys, & ale, an brede y-straynid, an Je water also, 
an put it on a potte, an Gyngere, Sugre, Saffron, powder pepir, and Salt, 
an let it boyle wyl ; Jen put yn Je Oystrys Jer-to, and dresse it forth. 

.xlj. Gelyne in dubbatte. — Take an Henne, and rost hure almoste y-now, 
an choppe hyre in fayre pecys, an caste her on a potte ; an caste Jer-to 
Freysshe broje, & half Wyne, Clowes, Maces, Pepir, Canelle, an stepe it with 
1 If . 1 1 bk. * i.e. into the dining-room. * *•*• i from xl. 



14 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 

}e Same bro]>e, fayre brede & Vynegre : an whan it is y-now, serue it 
forth. 

^xly. Conyng, Mawlard, in gely or in cyney.— Take Conynge, Hen, 
or Mawlard, and roste hem alle-most y-now, or ellys ehoppe hem, an frye 
hem in fayre Ereysshe greoe ; an frye myncyd Oynenons, and caste alle in-to 
]?e potte, & caste ]?er-to fayre Freysahe brothe, an half Wyne, Maces, Clowes, 
Powder pepir, Canelle ; )>an take fayre Brede, an wyth J?e same brothe stepe, 
an draw it Jorw a straynonre wyth vynegre ; an whan it is wyl y-boylid, 
caste ]?e lycoure ]>er-to, & powder Gyngere, & Salt, & sesyn it vp an aerue 
f[orth]. 

.xliy. Mortrewes of Fysshe. — Take Gornard or Oongere, a-fore }e navel 
wyth Je grece (for be-hynde }e navel he is hery a of bonys), or Codlyng, 
]>e lyuer an J?e Spaune, an sethe it y-now in fayre "Water, and pyke owt J?e 
bonys, and grynde J>e fysshe in a Morter, an temper it vp wyth Almaunde 
Mylke, an caste Jer-to gratyd brede ; ]?an take yt vp, an put it on a fayre 
potte, an let boyle ; J>an caste J>er-to Sngre and Salt, an serue it forth as 
other Mortrewys. And loke Jmt J>ow caste Gyngere y-now a-boue. 

.xliiij. Mortrewys de Fleyssh. — Take Porke, an se]?e it wyl ; >anne take 
it vppe and pulle a- way Je Swerde, 8 an pyke owt }e bonys, an hakke it and 
grynd it smal ; J?enne take J?e sylf brothe, & temper it with ale ; J?en take 
fayre gratyd brede, & do ]?er-to, an se]?e it, an coloure it with Safiroun, & lye 
it with jolkys of eyroun, & make it euen Salt, *& caste pouder Gyngere, 
a-bouyn on ]?e dysshe. 

.xlv.— For to make Blawnche Perrye.— Take }e Whyte of the lekys, an 
8e]7e hem in a potte, an presse hem vp, & hacke hem smal on a bord. An 
nym gode Almaunde Mylke, an a lytil of Rys, an do alle ]?es to-gederys, an 
se]?e an stere it wyl, an do Jer-to Sugre or hony, an dresse it yn ; J?anne 
take powderd Elys, an se]?e hem in fayre Water, and broyle hem, an kytte 
hem in long pecys. And ley .ij. or .iij. in a dysshe, and putte J?in 4 perrey 
in a-no]?er dysshe, 5 an serue ]?e to dysshys to-gederys as Venysouw witA 
Furmenty. 

.xlvj. Poumes. — Take fayre buttys of Vele & he we hem, and grynd hem 
in a morter, & wyth ]>e jolkys of eyroun, & with ]?e whyte of eyroun ; 
an easte j>er-to powder Pepyr, Canel, Gyngere, Clowys powJ?*r, & datys 
y-mynced, Safroun, & raysonys of Coraunce, an sethe in a panne wyth fayre 
water, an let it boyle ; Jan wete ]>in handys in Raw eyroun, J?an take it an 
1 leaf 12. 2 Hairy. » Rind, skin. * Thine. * If. 12 bk. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 15 

rolle it in Jin hondys, smaller or grettar, as Jow wolt haue it, an caste it 
in-to boyling water, an let boyle y-now ; Jan putte it on a Spete round, 
an lete hem rosty ; Jen take flowre an jolkys of eyroun, an Je whyte, an 
draw hem Jorwe a straynowre, an caste Jer-to pouder Gyngere, an make 
Jin 1 bature grene with Je Ius of Percely, or Malwys, in tyme of jere Whete, 
an caste on Je pommys as Jey turne a-boute, & sertce f[orth]. 

.xlvij. Cawdelle Ferry. — Take jolkys of eyroun Raw, y-tryid fro the 
whyte ; Jan take gode wyne, and warme it on Je potte on a fayre Pyre, an 
caste Jer-on jolkys, and stere it wyl, but let it nowt boyle tylle it be Jikke ; 
and caste Jer-to Sugre, Safroun, & Salt, Maces, Gelofres, an Galyngale 
y-grounde smal, & flowre of Canelle; & whan Jow dressyst yn, caste blanke 
pouder Jer-on. 

.xlviij. Tayloures. — Take a gode mylke of Almaundys y-draw with Wyne 
an "Water, an caste hym in-to a potte, and caste gret Roysouns of corauns, 
Also mencyd Datys, Clowes, Maces, Pouder Pepir, Canel, Safroun, & a gode 
dele Salt, & let boyle a whyle ; Jan take it and ly 2 it wyth Flowre of 
Rys, or ellys with Brede y-gratyd, & caste Jer-to Sugre, & serue forth lyke 
Mortrewys, & caste pouder of Gyngere a-boue y-now. 

jdix. Bryndons. — Take Wyn, & putte in a potte, an clarifiyd hony, an 
Saunderys, pepir, Safroun, Clowes, Maces, & Quybibys, & mynced Datys, 
Pynys and Roysonys of Corauns, & a lytil Yynegr*, s & sethe it on Je fyre ; an 
sethe fygys in Wyne, & grynde hem, & draw hem Jorw a straynoure, & caste 
Jer-to, an lete hem boyle alle to-gederys; Jan take fayre flowre, Safroun, 
Sugre, & Fayre Water, ande make Jer-of cakys, and let hem be Jinne Inow ; 
Jan kytte hem y lyke lechyngys, 4 an caste hem in fayre Oyle, and fry hem 
a lytil whyle ; Janne take hem owt of Je panne, an caste in-to a vesselle 
with Je Syrippe, & so serue hem forth, Je bryndonys an Je Sirippe, in a 
dysshe ; & let Je Sirippe be rennyng, & not to styf. 

.1. A potage on fysshday. — Take an Make a styf Poshote of Milke an 
Ale; Jan take & draw Je croddys Jorw a straynoure wyth 5 whyte Swete 
Wyne, or ellys Rochelle Wyne, & make it sum- what rennyng an sum- what 
stondyng, & put Sugre a gode quantyte Jer-to, or hony, but nowt to moche ; 
Jan hete it a lytil, & serue it forth al a-brode in Je dysshys ; an straw on 
Canel, & Gyngere, and jif [Jou] haue Blank powder, straw on and kepe it 
a[s] whyte as yt may be, & Jan serue f [orth]. 

1 Thine. * Lye; allay. 8 leaf 13. 

4 long thin strips. 6 MS. with. wyth. 



16 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 

.lj. Cawdelle de Almaunde. — Take Raw Almaundys, & grynde hem, an 
temper hem vp w*tA gode ale, and a lytil Water, and draw it Jorw a strayn- 
oure in-to a fayre potte, & late it boyle a whyle : & caste Jer-to Safroun, 
Sugre, and Salt, & Jan seme it forth al hotte in maner of potage. 

.lij. Gyngaudre. — Take Je Lyuerys of Codlyngys, Haddok, Elys, or Je Hake 
hed, or Freysshe MylweH hedys, Je Pouches, & Je Lyuerys, an sethe hem 
in fayre Water ; Jan take hem vp on a fayr* bord, & mynce smal Je pouches ; 
Jan take gode freysshe brothe of Samoun, or Turbut, or of Elys, & cast Je 
mynced pouches Jer-to, & pouder Pepyr, & let boyle ; Jan take Je brothe, 
Je pouches & Je lyuerys wer sodoun in, in a stipe l or on fayre brede, & draw 
Jorw a straynoure, & Jan mynce Je lyuer in fayre pecys ; & 2 whan Je pouches 
haue boylid, an Je licoure, caste Je leuer Jer-to, an let boyle a whyle : Jan 
caste Jer-to Je lyuerys, Wyne, Venegre, Safroun, Salt, & late it boyle a whyle, 
and serue forth Jat rennyng. 

.Liij. Eapeye. — Take half Fygys & halfe Roysonys, and boyle hem in 
Wyne ; Jan bray hem in a morter, an draw wyth the same lyooure Jorw a 
straynoure so Jikke Jat it be stondynge ; Janne take Eoysons of Corauns, 
Pynys, Glowys, Maces, Sugre of Siprys, an caste Jer-to : Jan putte it on a 
potte ; Jan take Saunderys a fewe, Pepir, Canel, an a litel Safroun ; an jif it 
be nojt stondyng, take [a] lytil flowre of Amidons, an draw it Jorw a strayn- 
woure, an caste Jer-to Salt, & serue forth stondyng. 

.Liiij. Bapeye. — Take almaundys, an draw a gode mylke Jer-of, and take 
Datys an mynce hem smal, an put Jer-on y-now ; take Raw Appelys, an pare 
hem and stampe hem, an drawe hem vppe w»tA wyne, or with draf of 
Almaundys, or boje ; Jan caste pouder of Gyngere, Canel, Maces, Clowes, 
& caste Jer-on Sugre y-now ; Jan take a quantyte of flowre of Rys, an 
Jrowe Jer-on, & make it chargeaunt, an coloure it wyth Safroun, an with 
Saunderys, an serue forth ; an strawe Canel a-boue. 

.lv. Iuschelle of Fysshe.— Take fayre Erye of Pyke, and caste it raw on a 
morter, an caste Jer-to gratid brede, an bray hem as smale as Jow mayste T 
& jif it be to stondyng, caste Jer-to Almaunde mylke, an bray hem to- 
gederys, an stere it to-gederys, & caste Jer-to a littel Safroun & Salt, an 
whyte Sugre, an putte al in a fayre Treen bolle, & toyle 3 it to-gederys wyth 
Jin hond, an loke Jat it be nojt to chargeaunt, but as a man may pore it 
out of Je bolle ; and Jan take a Chafoure or a panne, an caste Jer-in fayre 
grauey of pyke or of Freysshe Samoun, y-draw Jorw a straynoure, & sette 
1 P meaning. * If. 13 bk. * TwilU in Douce MS. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HABLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 17 

1 it on Je fyre ; Janne take fayre Percely an Sawge, an caste Jer-to, an lat it 
boyle, an caste Jer-to a lytil Safroun an Salt ; and whan it hath y-boylid 
a whyle, stere it faste, an caste Je Stuffe Jer-to, an stere it euermore ; an 
whan alle is oute of Je bolle, caste a litil an a litil in-to Je chafoure, or 
Je panne ; stere it soffter an sofftere, tylle it come to-gedere ; Jan gader it 
to-gedery8 with a ladelle or a Skymoure, softe, tille it be round to-gedere ; 
Janne take it fro Je fyre, an sette Je vesselle on a fewe colys, an late it 
wexe styf be hys owne acord ; Jan seme forth. 

.lyj. Charlotte. — Take Mylke, an caste on a potte, w*tA Salt and Safroun 
y-now ; Jan hewe fayre buttys of Calf or of Porke, nojt to fatte, alle smal, an 
kaste Jer-to ; Jan take Eyroun, Je whyte an the jolke, & draw Jorw a stray- 
noure ; an whan Je lyconre ys in boyling, caste Jer-to Jin Eyroun and Ale, 
& styre it tylle it Crodde ; Jan presse it a lytil with a platere, an serue 
forth ; saue, caste Jer-on broje of Beeff or of Capoun. 

.lvij. Charlet a-forcyd ryally. — Take gode Mylke of Almaunde; take 
tender Porke, an hew it smal, an bray it on a morter ; take eyroun, an draw 
Jorw a cloje ; temper vppe Jin flesshe Jer-wtU, an caste on Je potte ; take 
Je mylke, an sette it ouer Je fyre ; sesyn it wyth Salt an Safroun caste Jer-on ; 
boyle it, an when yt komyth on hy, a-lye it with wyne, an sette it a-doun ; 
take vppe an ley it on a cloje, an presse it a lytil ; ondo it a-jen, & caste 
Jer-on pouder Gyngere, Galyngale, Sagre y-now ; menge it to-gederys, presse 
it a-ajen, se Je a Je broje wyl ; take styf Almaunde mylke y-temperyd wttA 
Freysshe brothe, & caste Jer-on Saffroun an Sugre y-now, an a lytil Salt, 
& boyle it; Jan take and set it owt ; leche now Jin mete, & ley Jer-of in a 
dysshe ; take Je sewe, & ley a-boue ; take Maces & Sugre, & caste Jer-on, & 
Berue f[orth]. 

Uvtij. Let lory.^-Take Mylke, an sette it ouer Je fyre; take Salt & 
Safroun, an caste' Jer-to ; take Eyroun, Je jolke an Je Whyte y-strainyd a lyte, 4 
& caste it Jer-to ; whan Je Mylke his skaldyng hote, caste Je stuf Jer-to, 
an Jenne stere yt tyll it crodde ; and jif Jou wolt haue it a-forsyd wttA 
lyjt coste, Take Mylke, & make it skaldyng hote, & caste Jer-to Raw pikes of 
Eyroun, Sugre, pouder Gyngere, Clowes, Maces, an let not fully boyle ; & so 
hote, dresse it forth, an ley it on Je crodde ; & jif Jou wolt a-forse it in maner 
of charlet, do it in fastyng dayis, & serue it forth. 

Jix. Furmenty with purpaysse. — Make Jin Purmenty in Je maner as I 
sayd be-fore, saue temper it vp with Almaunden, Mylke, & Sugre, & Safroun, 
1 leaf 14. a MS. teye. s leaf 14 bk. « tyk=little. 

2 



18 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVBRS. 

J?an take J>in Purpays as a Freysshe Samoun, & sethe it in fayre Water ; & 
when he is I-sothe y-now, bawde it & leche it 1 in fayre pecys, & serue wyth 
Furmenty in hote Water. 

.lx. Trype of Turbut or of Codelynge. — Take J>e Mawes of Turbut, 
Haddok, or Codelyng, & pyke hem clene, & skrape hem, & Wasshem clene, 
and parboyle hem in gode Preysshe bro)>e of Turbut or Samoun, or Pyke ; Jan 
kytte Percely smalle, & caste ]>er-to, & kytte J?e Mawys of a peny brede, & 
caste alle togederys in-to a potte, & let it boyle to-gederys ; & whan J?ey bin 
Bojin tendyr, caste J?er-to Saf roun, & Salt, & Veryous, & ponder Gyngera, & 
serue f[orth]. 

.bg. A goos in hogepotte. — Take a Goos, & make hure clene, & hacke hyre 
to gobettys, & put yn a potte, & Water to, & sethe to-gederys ; J>an take 
Pepir & Brennyd brede, or Blode y-boylyd, & grynd y-fere Gyngere & 
Galyngale & Comyn, & temper vppe with Ale, & putte it ]?er-to ; & mynce 
Oynonys, & frye hem 2 in freysshe grece, & do Jer-to a porcyon of Wyne. 

.brij. Conyngyi in graueye. — Take Gonyngys, & make hem clene, & 
hakke hem in gobettys, & sethe hem, o]?er larde hem & Eost hem ; & ]?anne 
hakke hem, & take Almaandys, & grynde hem, & temper hem vppe with gode 
Preysshe brothe of Flesshe, & coloure it wyth Safroun, & do ]>er-to a porcyon 
of flowre of Eys, & do Jer-to ]>en pouder Gyngere, Galyngale, Canel, Sugre, 
Clowys, Maces, & boyle it onys & se]?e it ; )>en take J?e Conyngys, & putte 
Jer-on, & dresse it & serue it forth. 

.lxiij. Harys in Cyueye.— Take Harys, & Pie hem, & make hem clene, an 
hacke hem in gobettys, & sethe hem in Water & Salt a lytylle ; ]>an take 
Pepyr, an Safroun, an Brede, y-grounde y-fere, & temper it wyth Ale ; J?an 
take Oynonys & Percely, y-mynced smal to-gederys, & sethe hem be hem 
self, & afterward take & do J?er-to a porcyon of Vynegre, & dresse in. 

.lxiiij. Capoun in consewe.— -Take a Capoun, & make hem 3 clene, & sethe 
hym in Water, percely, Sauereye & Salt ; & whan he his y-now, quarter hym ; 
J?an grynde Almaundys, & temper vppe wyth ]?at brothe of ]?e Capoun; or 
ellys take J?e jolkys of Eyroun, & make it chargeaunt, & strayne ]>e Almaundys 
& boyle it ; take Sugre a goode porcyoun, & do ]?er-yn ; & when it ys y-boylid, 
ley J?e Capoun in \e dysshe, & put J?at Sew a-boue, & strawe Jer-vppe-on 
Sugre, & send it yn with alman). 

.lxv. Hennys in bruette. — Take \e hennys, & skalde hem, & ope hem, & 
wasshe hem clene, & smyte hem to gobettys, & sethe hem wyth fayre porke ; 

1 leehe ft, repeated in MS. * leaf 15. 8 ? for hym ; but see p. 19, No. lxxij. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 19 

Jan take Pepyr, Gyngere, & Brede, y-grounde y-fere, and temper it vppe 
-with Je same brothe, or ale draft, & coloure it with Safrouw, & seje it to- 
gederys, & serne forth. 

.lxyj. Brnette Sareson. — Take Almaundys & draw a gode mylke '& flowre 
of Bys, & Porke & Brawen of Capoun y-sode, or Hennys smale y-grounde, & 
boyle it y-fere, & do in-to Je mylke ; & Jan take pouder Gyngere, Sugre, & 
caste a-boue, an serue forth. 

.lzvij. Bruet of Almaynne. — Take Almaundys, & draw a gode mylke Jer-of 
with Water ; take Capoun, Conyngys or Pertriches ; smyte Je Capoun, or kede, 
or Chykonys, Conyngys : Je Pertriche shal ben hoi : Jan blaunche Je Fleyssh, 
an caste on Je mylke ; take larde & [mynce] it, & caste Jer-to ; take an 
mynce Oynonys & caste Jer-to y-nowe, do Clowes & smal Koysonys Jer-to ; 
caste hoi Safroun Jer-to, Jan do it to Je fyre, & stere it wyl ; whan Je 
fleysshe ys y-now, sette it on Je fyre, an do Jer-to Sugre y-now ; take pouder 
Gyngere, Galyngale, Canel, & temper Je pouder wyth Vynegre, & caste 
Jer-to ; sesyn it with salt, & serue forth. 

.lxviij. Bruet of Almaynne in lente. — Take fyne Jikke Mylke of 
Almaundys ; take datys, an mynce hem smal Jer-on ; take Sugre y-nowe, & 
straw Jer-on, & a lytil flowre of Bys ; sylt, 2 & serue forth whyte, & loke Jut 
it be rennyng. 

.lxiz. Whyte Mortrewes. — Take Almaunde Mylke & Floure of Bys, & 
boyle it y-fere ; Jenne take Capoun & Hennys, & sethe hem and bray hem as 
smal as J<m may, & ly 3 it wttA an Ey 4 or to, & also a-lye it vppe wttA Je 
mylke of Almaundys, & make hem chargeaunt as Mortrewes schuld be, & 
dresse hem forth, & caste Canel a-boue, or Gyngere. Blanke ponder is best. 
* .lxx. Fauntempere. — Take Almaunde Mylke, & Floure of Bys, Sugre, an 
gode poujer Gyngere, Galyngale, Canel, & gode Erbys, and stampe hem 
[&] grynd hem Jorw a cloje, & caste Jer-to, & boyle yt, an a-lye it wyth 
jolkys of Eyronn, & make it more boyle; Jan take Maces, Quybibes, & 
Geloferys, & caste Jer-to wha» that Jon schalt dresse it yn. 

'.bog. Murrey. — Take Porke an Vele, & sethe it, & grynd it, & draw it 
wttA Je self brothe ; Jen take bred y-gratyd, & ponder of Gyngere & of 
Galyngale, & Hony, an caste Jer-to, & boyle it y-fere ; & make it chargeaunt, 
& coloure it with Saunderys & serus f [orth]. 

.lxxij. Talbottys.— Take an Hare, an fle hem clene ; Jen take Je blode, & 
Brede, an Spycery, an grynde y-fere, & draw it vppe with Je brothe; 

} If. 16 bk. . * ? sprinkle. » Allay; mix. * Egg. * leaf 16. 



20 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAOE DYVERS. 

J?an take "Wyne or Ale, an cast J?er-to, & make gobettys, & J?anne seme 
it forth. 

.lxxiij. Conyngys in cyveye. — Take Conyngys, an fle hem, & se]?e hem, 
& make lyke J?ou woldyst make a sewe, sane alle-to-choppe hem, & caste 
Safroun & Iyer J?er-to, & "Wyne. 

.lxxiiij. Arbolettys. — Take Milke, Boter an Chese, & boyle in fere; ]ren 
take eyroun, & cast ]?er-to; ]>an take Percely & Sawge & hacke it smal, 
& take pouder Gyngere & Galyngale, and caste it J?er-to, and )>an serue 
it forth. 

lxxv. Spyneye. — Take ]>e Flowferys of Hawthorun ; boyle hem & presse 
hem, bray hem smal, temper hem vppe wyth Almannde Milke, & lye it with 
Abyndoun * & Gratyd brede & flowre of Rys ; take Sugre y-now & put j>er-to, 
or Hony in defawte, & colowre it wyth J?e same )>at ]>e flowrys ben, & Berne 
f[orth]. 

.lxxvj. Brasele. — Take Dace, Trontys, & Boche, an roste hem on a 
gredelle ; J?an se]?e in Wyne, & caste Veryous Jer-to, powder of Gyngere, & 
Galyngale, & dresse it yn. 

.lxxvij. Crem de Colonre. — Take an make ]?icke Milke of Almaundys, & 
do it in a potte, & sethe it ouer J?e fyre ; J?an take a fayre Canvas, an put it 
]?er-on, & late renne out ]>e Water ; ]>en take J?e halfyndele, & put it in a pot 
of er]?e ; ]>en take the oJ?er halfyndele, & parte it [in] to, 2 & make \q half 
jelow, & do ]?er-yn Wyn, Sugre, Clowes, Maces, powder of Canelle ; take 
[blank in MS.] & grynd a lytel in a morter; 8 )>an temper it vppe wyth 
almaunde mylke, & do euery of hem in a potte, an loke ]?at it be y-like 
chargeaunt, & sette it ouer Je fyre, an boyle it a lytyl, an serue forth. 

.lxxviij. Colouryd Sew wtU-owt fyre. — Take fowre pounde of Almaundys, 
& ley in Water ouer eue, an blanche hem, and on J?e morwe grynde hem ryth 
wyl, an draw J?er-of a ]?icke mylke ; j>an take Rys, and wasshem clene, an 
grynd hem wyl, & draw hem vppe wyth J?e Mylke ]?orw a straynoure, an do 
it on a bolle, & parte it in J?e vesselle, an do in al whyte Sugre, an euery 
vesselle Clowes, Maces, Quybibes, & pouder Canelle ; An lete \at on party 
ben whyte, ]rat o]?er jelow, & J? at o]?er grene with Percely ; And ley of euery 
a leche 4 in a dysshe, an loke ]>at Mylke be temperyd wyth wyne, an )>at 5 
o]?er with Bede wyn. 

.lxzix. Apple Muse. — Take Appelys an sethe hem, an Serge* hem ]>orwe 
a Sefe in-to a potte ; ]?anne take Almaunde Mylke & Hony, an caste J?er-to, an 

1 Amydon. * Two. ■ If. 16 bk. * a strip. * MS. Jaw. • Sift. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLE1AN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 21 

gratid Brede, Safroun, Saunderys, & Salt a lytil, & caste all in Je potte & 
lete hem sethe ; & loke Jat Jou stere it wyl, & seme it forth. 

.lxzx. Salomene. — Take gode "Wyne, an gode pouder, & Brede y-ground, 
an sugre, an boyle it y-fere ; Jan take Trowtys, Rochys, Perchys, ojer Carpys, 
ojer alle Jese y-fere, an make hem clene, & aftere roste hem on a Grydelle ; 
J?an hewe hem in gobettys : whan Jey ben y-sothe, fry hem in oyle a lytil, 
Jen caste in Je brwet; and whan Jou dressist it, take Maces, Clowes, 
Quybibes, Gelofrys, an cast a-boue, & serue forth. 

.lxxxj. Blaundysorye. — Take Almaunde Mylke, an flowre of Rys, and 
brawn of Capounys or of hennys, & pouder Gyngere, & boyle it y-fere, & 
make it chargeaunt J an whan Jou dressest yn, nym Maces, Quybibes, & caste 
a-boue, & sertce f[orth]. 

Mxxxij. Blamang. — Take Rys, an lese 2 hem clene, & wasshe hem clene in 
flake Water, & Jan sethe hem in Watere, & aftyrward in Almaunde Mylke, 
& do Jer-to Brawn of Je Capoun aftyrward in-to a-nojer almaunde Mylke, 
an te8e it smal sumdele with a pyn, an euer as it wolt caste 3 Jer-to, stere it 
wel ; nym Sugre and caste Jer-to, Jen make it chargeaunt ; Jen take blawn- 
chyd Almaundys, an frye hem, an sette hem a-boue, whan J<ra seruyst ynne ; 
& jif Jou wolt, Jou myjte departe hem with a Cawdelle Ferry y-wreten* 
before [No. xlvij. p. 15, and cxxxix. p 31], an Jan serue forth. 

.lxxxiij. Vyaund de cyprys bastarde. — Take gode wyne, & Sugre next 
Aftyrward, & caste to-gedere ; Jenne take whyte Gyngere, and Galyngale, & 
Canel fayre y-mynced ; Jen take Iuse of Percile & "Flowre of Rys, & Brawn 
of Capoun & of Chykonnys I-grounde, & caste Jer-to ; An coloure it wyth 
Safroun & Saunderys, an a-ly it with jolkys of Eyroun, & make it chargeaunt ; 
an whan Jou dressest it yn, take Maces, Clowes, Quybibes, and straw a-boue, 
& serue forth. 

.lxxxiiij. Vyaund de ciprys Ryalle. — Take Je to del 6 jolkys of eyron, 
Je Jridde dele Hony ; take Clowes & kutte hem ; take Roysonys, tak brawn of 
Capoun, & hewe it smal ; caste al in a potte, & lat boyle & stere it wyl ; take 
wyne an boyle hem, & make a Syryppe ; take of 6 Je potte al a-bowte, Jer as 
it hangyth, & late it boyle wyl tille it be as chargeaunt as it may ; take Jin 
Jombe 7 & pylt 8 Jer-on, & }if it cleuey, let it boyle, & jif it nowt, sette it 
owt a-non in a clen bolle, an wete Jin bolle in Je Syrippe, and caste Jin 
mete Jer-on ; & whan Jow dressist Ji mete, leche it & caste Jin 9 Syryppe 
a-bouyn vppe-on, & serue forth. 

1 If. 17 {? Blamanger). a pick. 'stick. « Written. 

• Two parts. • off. * Thumb. 8 Put. 9 Thy. 



22 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGB DYVEBS. 

.Izzxt. G&ylede. — Take Almaunde Mylke & Flowre of Bys, & do )w-to 
Sugre or Hony, & Powder Gyngere & Galyngale ; ]?en take ngys, *an kerue 
hern a-to, or Roysonys y-hole, a or hard Wastel y-dicyd 8 and coloure it with 
Saunderys, & sethe it & dresse hem yn. 

.lxxrvj. Rys. — Take a porcyoun of Rys, & pyke hem clene, & sethe hem 
welle, & late hem kele ; J?en take gode Mylke of Almaundys & do }>er-to, & 
se]?e & stere hem wyl; & do J?er-to Sugre an hony, & serue f[orth]. 

.lxxxvij. Manmenye ryalle.— Take Vernage, o)>er strong Wyne of J>e 
beste ]?at a man may fynde, an putte it on a potte, & caste ]>er-to a gode 
quantyte of ponder Canelle, & sette it on )?e fyre, an jif it an hete ; & Jeanne 
wrynge it soft }otw a straynoure, J?at \q draf go nowt owte, & put on a 
fayre potte, & pyke fayre newe pynys, & wasshe hem clene in Wyn, & caste 
a gode quantyte Jrer-to, & take whyte Sugre J?er-to, as moche as J?e lycoure 
is, & caste }?er-to ; & draw a few Sawnderys wyth strong wyne )>orwe a stray- 
noure, an caste Jer-to, & put alle on on 4 potte, & caste j>er-to Clowys, a gode 
quantyte, & sette it on }e fyre, & jif it a boyle ; )>en take Almaundya, & 
draw hem with mythty "Wyne ; & at )e firste boyle ly it vppe with Ale, & jif 
it a boyle, & sette it on ]?e fyre, and caste J>er-to tesyd brawn, (of 5 defaute of 
Pertriche or Capoun,) a gode quantyte of tryid Gyngere phrase,* & sesyn it 
vppe with pouder Gyngere, & Salt & Safroun ; & jif it is to stondyng, a-ly it 
wttA Vernage or swete Wyne, & dresse it Flat with ]>e backe of a Sawcere in 
J?e Vernage or myjthty Wyne, & loke fat Jn>u haue Sugre y-nowe, & serue 
forth hote. 

.lxxxviij. Mammenye bastarde.— Take a potelle of Clarinyd Hony, & a 
pounde of Pynys, & a pounde of Roysouns Coraunce, & [a] pound of Saunderys, 
& pouder canelle, & .ij. galouns of Wyne or Ale, & a pound of Pepir, & caste 
alle on a potte, & skym yt; J?an take .iij. pounde of Amyndons, & a galon 
of Wyne, & a gode galon of Venegre, & let stepe vp to-gederys, & draw J?orw 
a straynoure ; 7 an whan J>e potte boylith, caste ]>e lycoure J>er-to, an lat it be 
alle stondyng ; ]?an take pouder Gyngere, Salt & Safron, an sesyn it vppe, an 
serue alle flat on a dysshe, aH hote, an caste pouder Gyngere Jer-on, an serue 
f[orth]. 

.Ixxxix. Elys in Gauncelye.— Take Elys, an fle hem, & sethe hem in 
Water, an caste a lytil Salt )>er-to ; ]>an take Brede y-Skaldyd, an grynd it, 
an temper it wt'tA J?e brothe an with Ale; j>an take Pepir, Gyngere, an 
Safroune, an grynd alle y-f ere ; Jan neme Oynonys, an Percely, an boyle 

1 If. 17 bk. * Punstoned. 9 diced, cat into small squares. 

* In one. 6 In. • P meaning. 7 If. 18. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 23 

it in a possenet wel, Jen caste alle to-gederys, an sethe y-fere & aerue 
f[ortli]. 

.hcxxx. Hennys in Gauncelye. — Take Hennys, an roste hem ; take Mylke 
an Garleke, an grynd it, an do it in a panne, an hewe Jin hennys Jer-on with 
jolkys of eyron, an colonre it with Safroun an Mylke, an seme forth. 

.lxxxxj. Vyolette. — Kym Almaunde Mylke, an flowre of Rys, and ponder 
Gyngere, Galyngale, Pepir, Datis, Fygys, & Basonys y-corven, an colonre it 
with Safroun, an boyle it & make it chargeannt ; an whan J<ra dressyste, take 
Je flowres, an hew hem, an styre it Jer-w»tA ; nyme Je braunchys with Je 
flowres, an sette a-bone and serue it Forth. 

.lxxxxq. Oystrys in brnette. — Take an schene 1 Oystrys, an kepe Je water 
Jat cometh of hem, an strayne it, an put it in a potte, & Ale Jer-to, an a lytil 
brede Jer-to ; put Gyngere, Canel, Ponder of Pepir Jer-to, Safroun an Salt ; 
an whan it is y-now al-moste, putte on Jin Oystrys : loke Jat Jey ben wyl 
y-wasshe for* Je schullys : & Jan serue forth. 

.lxxxxiij. Walkys' in brnette. — Take [Walkys] an sethe in Ale, Jen 
pyke hem clene ; Jan wasshem in Water an Salt be hem-self, & fyrst wyth 
Ale & Salt, an do so whele Jey ben slepyr 4 ; Jen putte hem in 6 Vynegre, an 
ley Perceli a-boue, an serue ynne. 

.lxzzziiq. Tenche in brnette. — Take Je Tenche, an sethe hem & roste 
hem, an grynde Pepir an Safroun, Bred and Ale, & tempere wyth Je brothe, 
an boyle it ; Jen take Je Tenche y-rostyd, an ley hym on a chargeoure ; Jan 
ley on Je sewe a-bone. 

.lxxxxv. Tenche in cyueye. — Take a tenche, an skalde hym, roste hym, 
grynde Pepir an Safroun, Brede an Ale, & melle it to-gederys ; take Oynonys, 
hakke hem, an frye hem in Oyle, & do hem Jer-to, and messe hem forth. 

.lxxzxyj. Tenche in Sawce. — Take a tenche whan he is y-sothe, and 
ley him on a dysshe ; take Percely & Oynonys, & mynce hem to-gederys ; 
take pouder Pepir, & Canelle, & straw Jer-on ; take Vynegre, an caste Safroun 
Jer-on, an coloure it, an s*rue it forth Janne alle colde. 

.lxxxxvij. Chykonys in brnette.— Take [an] Sethe Chykonys, & smyte 
hem to gobettys ; Jan take Pepir, Gyngere, an Brede y-grounde, & temper it 
yppe wyth Je self brothe, an with Ale ; an coloure it with Safroun, an sethe 
an serue forth. 

.lxxxxviij. Blamang*r of Fyshe.— Take Bys, an sethe hem tylle they 
brekyn, & late hem kele; Jan caste Jer-to mylke of Almaundys; nym 

1 foisehelt. » on account of. * Whelks. * Slippery; slimy. * If. 18 bk. 



24 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYYBBS. 

Perche or Lopstere, & do f er-to, & melle it ; fan nym Sugre with pouder 
Gyngere, & caste f er-to, & make it chargeaunt, and fan serue it forth. 

.xxxxix. Sardeynej — Take Almaundys, & make a gode Myike of Flowre 
of Bys, Safroun, Gyngere, Canelle, Maces, Quybibe; ; grynd hem smal on a 
morter, & temper hem vppe with f e Mylke ; fan take a fayre vesselle, & a 
fayre parte of Sugre, & boyle hem wyl, & rynsche fin dysshe alle a-bowte 
wttA-ynne with Sugre or oyle, an fan Berne forth. 

l .C. Boseye. — Take Almaunde Mylke an flowre of Bys, & Sugre, an 
Safroun, an boyle hem y-fere ; fan take Red Bosys, an grynd fayre in a 
morter with Almaunde mylke; fan take Loches, an toyle* hem [with] 
Flowre, an frye hem, & ley hem in dysshys; fan take gode pouder, and 
do in f e Sewe, & caste f e Sewe a-bouyn f e lochys, & serue forth. 

.Cj. Eyron en poehe. — Take Eyroun, broke hem, an sethe hem in hot 
Water ; fan take hem Yppe as hole as fou may ; fan take flowre, an melle 
with Mylke, & caste f er-to Sugre or Hony, & a lytel pouder Gyngere, an 
boyle alle y-fere, & coloure with Safrotm ; an ley fin Eyroun in dysshys, 
& caste fe Sewe a-boue, & caste on pouder y-now. Blawnche pouder 
ys best. 

.Cij. Huskelys in bruette. — Take f e Muskelys whan fey ben y-sothe, & 
pyke owt f e Muskele of f e schulle, & pyke a- way ye here : fan take brede, 
an pepir & Safroun y-grounde, & temper it vp wttA f e brothe ; & jif f ou 
wolt, a-lye it with Wyne or wttA Ale, & serue f [orth]. 

.Ciy . Fygeye. — Take Fygys, an sethe hem tylle fey ben neysshe, fa» bray- 
hem tylle fey ben smal ; f enne take hem vppe an putte hem in a potte, & Ale 
f er-to ; fan take Bred y-gratyd, an Pynej hole, & caste f er-to, & let boyle 
wyl ; & atte f e dressoure, caste on pouder Canel y-now, & serue forth : & jif 
f ow wolt colour yt in .iij. maners, f<m myjt, wttA Saunderys, Safroun, & of 
hym-self, and ley on pouder y-now, & Berue f [orth]. 

.Cii\j. Bolas. — Take fayre Bolasse, wasshe hem clene, & in "Wyne boyle 
hem fat fey be but skaldyd bywese, & boyle hem alle to pomppe, 3 & draw 
hem forw a straynoure, & a-lye hem w*tA flowre of Bys, & make it 
chargeawnt, & do it to f e fyre, & boyl it ; take it of, & do f er-to whyte 
Sugre, gyngere, Clowys, Maces, Canelle, & stere it wyl to-gederys : f anne 
take gode perys, 4 & sethe hem wel with f e Stalke, & sette hem to kele, & 
pare hem clene, and pyke owt f e corys ; fan take datis, & wasshe hem clene, 
& pyke owt f e Stonys, & fylle hem f ulle of blaunche poudere : fan take f e 
1 leaf 19. * Bub, coyer. » Pulp. * If. 19 bk. 



1 

COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 25 

Stalke of Je Perys, take Je Bolas, & ley .iij. lechys in a dysshe, & sette Jin 
perys Jer-yn. 

.Cv. Lorey de Boolas. — Take Bolas, & seje hem a lytil, & draw hem 
Jorw a straynoure, & caste hem in a broje ; & do Jer-to Brede y-gratyd, & 
boyle y-fere, & jolkys of eyroun y-swengyd, & a-lyid ; take Canel, and 
Galyngale, Skemyd hony, & do Jer-to, & sethe wyl, & serue forth. 

.Cyj. Bapeye of Fleysshe. — Take lene Porke y-sode & y-grounde smalle, & 
tempere it vppe with Je self broje, & do it in a potte, an caste ]?er-to a lytil. 
honye, & boyle it tyl it be chargeaunt ; & a-lye it wyth jolkys of Eyroun, & 
coloure it with Saunderys, & dresse. forth, and pouder Marchaunt. 

.Cvij. Sore Sengle. — Take Elys or Gurnard, & parte hem half in Wyne, & 
half in watere, in-to a potte ; take Percely and Oynonys & hewe hem smalle ; 
take Clowes or Maces & caste ]?er-on ; take Safroun, & caste Jer-to, & sette on 
Je fyre, & let boyle tylle it be y-now ; Jen sette it a-doun ; take .poudere 
Gyngere, Canelle, Galyngale, & temper it vppe with Wyne, & cast on Je 
potte & serue forth. 

.(My . Prymerose. — Take ojer half-pound of Plowre of Rys, .iij. pound of 
Almaundys, half an vnce of hony & Safroun*, & take ]?e flowre of Je Pryme- 
rose, & grynd hem, and temper hem vppe wttA Mylke of Je Almaundys, & 
do pouder Gyngere J^r-on : boyle it, & plante Jin skluce l with Bosys, & 
serue f[orth], 

.Cix., Gelye de chare. — Take caluys fete, & skalde hem in fayre water, an 
make hem alle Je whyte. Also take howhys of a Vele, & ley hem on water to 
soke out Je blode ; fen take hem vppe, an lay hem on a fayre lynen cloje, 
& lat ]?e water rennyn out of [hem] ; Jan Skore. 3 a potte, & putte Je Fete & 
Je Howhys Jer-on ; Jan take Whyte Wyne Jat wolle hold coloure, & cast 
Jer-to a porcyon, an non ojer lycoure, Jat Je Eleysshe be ouer-wewyd 4 with- 
alle, & sette it on Je fyre, & boyle it, & Skeme it clene ; an whan it is tendyr 
& boylid y-now, take vppe Je Eleyshe in-to a fayre bolle, & saue Je lycoure 
wyl ; & loke Jat Jow haue fayre sydys of Pyggys, & fayre smal Chykenys wyl 
& clene skladdyd & drawe, & lat Je leggys an Je fete, on, an waysshe hem 
in fayre water, & caste hem in Je f yrste brothe, an sethe it a-jen ouer Je 
fyre, & skeme it clene ; lat a man eu^rmore kepe it, an blow of Je grauy. 
An in cas Je lycoure wast 6 a- way, caste more of Je same wyne Jer-to, & put 
Jin honde Jer-on; & jif Jin hond waxe clammy, it is a syne of godenesse, 

1 viscous compound P 2 leaf 20. s Scour. 

4 See other Cookery, No. 174, west. * Waste. 



26 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYYRRS. 

an let not Je Pleyshe be moche sothe, 1 J?at it may bere kyttyng ; Jan take it 
vppe, & ley it on a fayre cloje, & sette owt Je lycoure fro ]>e fyre, & put a 
few colys vnder-nethe Je vesselle fat ]?e lyeonre is yn ; fan take ponder of 
Pepir, a gode qnantyte, & Safron, fat it haue a fayre Laumbere coloure, & a 
gode quantyte of Vynegre, & loke fat it be sau«ry [of] Salt & of Vynegre, 
fayre of coloure of Safronn, & putte it on fayre lynen clofe, & sette it vnder- 
nethe a fayre pewter dysshe, & lat it renne ]>orw J?e clofe so ofte tylle it 
renne clew : kytte fayre Rybbys of ]?e syde of ]?e Pygge, & lay ham on a 
dysshe, an pulle of ]?e lemys of J?e Chykenys, eche fro o]?er, & do a- way J>e 
Skynne, & ley sum in a dysshe fayre y-chowchyd,* & pore Jin s gelye Jer-on, 
& lay Almaundys Jer-on, an Clowys, & paryd Gyngere, & same forth. 

4 .Cx. Gelye de Fysshe. — Take newe Pykys, an draw hem, and smyte hem 
to pecys, & sethe in Je same lycoure Jat Jou doste Gelye of Fleysshe ; an whan 
]?ey ben y-now, take Perchys and Tenchys, & seje ; & Elys, an kutte hem in 
fayre pecys, and waysshe hem, & putte hem in Je same lycoure, & loke Jine 
lycoure be styf y-now ; & jif it wolle notte cacche, 5 take Soundys of watteryd 
Stokkefysshe, or ellys Skynnys, or Plays, an caste Jer-to, & sethe ouer J?e 
fyre, & skeme it wyl ; & when it ys y-now, let nowt }e Eysshe breke ; Jenne 
take Je lycoure fro Je fyre, & do as ]?ou dedyst be 6 Jat ojer Gelye, saue, 
pylle Je Pysshe, & ley Jer-off in dysshis, ]?at is, perche & suche ; and Flowre 
hem, & serue forthe. 

.ftg. Tannye.— Take almaunde Mylke, & Sugre, an powdere Gyngere, & of 
Galyhgale, & of Canelle, and Rede Wyne, & boyle y-fere : & fat is gode tannye. 

.Cxij. Sturmye. — Take gode mylke of Almaundys y-drawe with wyne ; 
take porke an hew it Smalle ; do it on a Morter, and grynde it ryth smalle ; 
J?en caste it in ]?e same Mylke, & caste it on a potte ; take Sawnderys & flowre 
of Rys ; melle hem with \e Mylke, draw hem Jjorw a strayhoure, & caste it 
[in] a clene pot, loke \at it be chargeaunt y-now ; take Sugre, an putte ]?er-on, 
& Hony ; do it ouer )>e fyre, & let it sethe a gret whyle ; sture yt wyl ; take 
Eyroun hard y-soje, take Je whyte, & hew hem as smalle as ]?ow myjth, caste 
hem on )>e potte; take Safroune & caste ]?er-to, wttA powder Gyngere, 
Canelle, Galyngale, Clowys, & loke fat }ou haue powder y-now ; caste it in 
)?e potte, temper it with Vynegre ; take Salt & do J?er-to, menge hem wylle 
to-gederys, Make a Siryppe; ]?e .ij. dele schalle ben wyne, & Je .ij. dele 
Sugre or hony; boyle it & stere it, & Skeme it clene; Jer-on wete 7 J?in 
dyssches, & serue forth. 

1 boiled. » Y-couched ; laid. » Thine. * 3 If . 20 bk. 

6 stick ; see other Cookery, No. 174. * By, with. 7 leaf 21. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAOE DYVEBS. 27 

.Cxiij. Bruette saake. — Take Capoun, skalde hem, draw hem, smyte hem 
to gobettys, Waysshe hem, do hem in a potte ; ]?enne caste owt Je potte, 
waysshe hem a-$en on Je potte, & caste Jer-to half wyne half Broje ; take 
Percely, Isope, Waysshe hem, & hew hem smal, & putte on Je potte Jer ]?e 
Fleysshe is; caste Jer-to Clowys, quybibes, Maces, Datys y-tallyd, hoi 
Safroune ; do it ouer Je fyre ; take Canelle, Gyngere, tempore Jin powajes 
with wyne ; caste in-to Je potte Salt Jer-to, hele l it, & whan it is y-now, 
seme it forth. 

.Cxiiij. Tayle;. — Take a chargeaunt Mylke of Almaundys, an draw with 
wyne 2 ; take Fygys & Koysonys a gode porcyon, to make it chargeaunt, waysshe 
hem clene, & caste hem on a morter, grynd hem as small as Jou myjt, temper 
hem vppe wttA Jin 3 Mylke, draw hem Jorw a straynoure, also chargeauntly 
as Jou myjth ; caste it in a clene potte, do it to Je fyw ; take Datys y-taylid 
a-long, & do Jer-to ; take Flowre of Rys, & draw it Jorw a straynoure, and 
caste Jer-to, & lat it boyle tylle it be chargeaunt ; sette it on Je fyre ; take 
ponder Gyngere & Canelle, Galyngale ; temper with Vynegre, & caste Jer-to 
Sugre, or hony ; caste Jer-to, sesyn it vppe with Salt, & serve iorth. 

•Cxy. Quynade. — Take Quynces, & pare hem clene, caste hem on a potte, & 
caste Jer-to water of Rosys ; do it ouer Je fyre, & hele 4 it faste, & let it boyle 
a gode whyle tyl Jey ben neysshe ; & jif Jey wol not ben neysshe, bray hem » 
in a Morter smal, draw hem Jorw a straynoure ; take gode Mylke of Alma&dys, 
& caste in a potte & boyle it; take whyte Wyne & Vynegre, an caste Jer-to 
Je Mylke, & let it stonde a whyle ; take Jan a clene canvas, & caste Je mylke 
vppe-on), & with a platere 6 stryke it of Je cloje, & caste it on Je potte ; gedyr 
vppe Je quynces, & caste to Je creme, & do it ouer Je fyre, & lat boyle ; take 
a porcyon of pouder of Clowys, of Gyngere, of Graynys of Perys, of Euery 
a porcyon ; take Sugre y-now, with Salt, & a party of Safrouw, & alle menge 
to-gederys ; & when Jwu dressyst forth, plante it with f oyle of Syluer. 

•Cxvj. Blaunche de ferry. — Take Almaundys, an draw Jer-of an Char- 
geaunt Mylke ; take Caponys & sethe hem ; & whan Jey ben y-now, take hem 
vppe, & ley hem on a fayre bord, & strype of Je Skyn, & draw out Je Brawn 
& hew hem smal ; do Hem on a Morter, & grynd hem smal ; caste on a potte, 
& fayre whyte Salt, & boyle hem ; & whan Jey bey boylid, sette it out, & 
caste on whyte "Wyne or Venegre, & make it quayle 6 ; take a clene cloje and 
lete it be tryid a-brode, & stryke it wyl vnder-nethe alle Je whyle Jat Jer 
wol aujt out Jer-of; Jan caste Blaunche powder Jer-on, or pouder Gyngere 

1 Cover. 3 MS. caste in to }e potte, struck through after wyne. 

•Thine. * Cover. * If. 21 bk. 6 Curdle. 



28 COOKERY BOOK* I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. FOTAGB DYVBKS. 

y-mellyd wt'tA Sugre ; stryke it clene, take a newe Erjen potte, ojer a clene 
bolle, & caste ]7in mete Jer-on, ]?er plantyng Anys in comfyte. 

.Cxvij. Sauge.— Take Gyngere, Galyngale, Clowys, & grynde in a morter ; 
Jan take an handfulle of Sawge, & do Jer-to, grynd wyl to-gederys ; take 
Eyroun, & sethe hem harde, nym Je jolkys, grynde hem with J?e Sawge & 
with ]?e spycis, & temper it vppe with Venegre or eysel, or with Alegere ; 
take Je whyte of Je Eyrotra, & sethe hem, & mynce hem smal, & caste Jer-to ; 
when it is y-temperyd, take Brawn of hennys or Fyssches, & ley on dysschys, 
& caste Jin mete a-boue. 

.Cxviij. Mnrreye. — TakeMolberys, & wryng hem Jorwe a cloje ; nym Yele, 
hew it, sethe it, grynd it smal, & caste Jer-to ; nym gode Spycery, Sugre, & 
caste Jer-to ; take Wastylbrede y-gratyd, 'and jolkys of Eyroun, & lye it vppe 
Iper-wiih, & caste gode pouder a-boue y-now, & Jan serue forth. 

.Cxiz. Vyaunde de cyprys i» lente. — Take gode Jikke mylke of 
Almaundys, & do it on a potte ; & nyme Je F[le]ysshe s of gode Crabbys, & gode 
Samoun, & bray it smal, & tempore yt vppe with Je forsayd mylke ; boyle it, 
an lye it wttA floure of Rys or Amyndoun, an make it chargeaunt ; when it ys 
y-boylid, do Jer-to whyte Sugre, a gode quantyte of whyte V^mage Pimej 8 
with Je wyne, Pome-garnade. Whan it is y-dressyd, straw a-boue Je grayne 
of Pome-garnade. 

.Cxi. Whyte Mortrewys of Porke. — Take lenePorke, & boyle it ; blaunche 
Almandys, & grynd hem, & temper vppe with Je brothe of Je porke, & lye 
hem vppe wttA Je Flowre of Rys, an lete boyle to-gederys, but loke Jat Je 
porke be smal grounde y-now ; caste Jer-to Myncyd Almaundys y-fryid in 
freysshe grece ; Jen sesyn hem vppe alle flatte in a dysshe ; Jrow Jer-to Sugre 
y-now & Salt ; & atte Je dressoure, strawe Jer-on pouder Gyngere y-mellyd 
wttA Almaundys. 

.Cxxj. Rapeye. — Take Fygys & Roysonys, & grynd hem in a Mortere, & 
tempere hem vppe with Almaunde Mylke, & draw hem Jorw a cloje ; Jen 
take gode Spycys, & caste Jer-to ; take Perys, seje hem & pare hem, & do 
a- way Je core, & bray hem in a mortere, & caste to Je oJ*r ; take gode Wyne, 
& Blake Sugre or Hony, & caste Jer-to a lytil, & let it boyle in few; & whan 
Jow dressyst yn, take Maces & Clowes, Quybibys & Graynys, & caste a-boue. 

.Gxxq. A rede Horreye. — Take Molberys, and wrynge a gode hepe of hem 
Jorw a cloje ; nym Yele, hew it & grynd it smal, & caste Jer-to ; nym gode 
Spycery [an] Sugre, & caste Jer- 4 to ; take "Wastilbrede & grate it, & jolkys 
1 leaf 22. * MS. Fyuh$ (P intentionally). » ? meaning. * If. 22 bk. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 29 

of Eyroun, & lye it vppe Jer-wtto, & caste gode pouder of Spycery Jer-an 
a-bouen ; & Jan serue it forth. 

.Cxxiij. Strawberye. — Take Strawberys, & waysshe hem in tyme of $ere 
in gode red wyne ; Jan strayne Jorwe a cloje, & do hem in a potte wttA gode 
Almaunde my Ike, a-lay it wit A Amyndotm ojer with Je flow re of Rys, & make 
it chargeaunt and lat it boyle, and do Jer-in Roysonys of coraunce, Safroun, 
Pepir, Sugre grete plente, pouder Gyngere, Canel, Galyngale ; poynte it with 
Vynegre, & a lytil whyte grece put Jer-to ; coloure it with Alkenade, & droppe 
it a-bowte, plante it with Je graynys of Pome-garnad, & Jan serue it forth. 

.Cxxiiij. Chyryoun. — Take Chyryis, 1 & pike out ]?e stonys, waysshe hem 
olene in wyne, Jan wryng hem Jorw a cloje, & do it on a potte, & do ]?er-to 
whyte grece a quantyte, & a partye of Ploure of Rys, & make it chargeaunt ; 
do Jer-to hwyte Hony or Sugre, poynte it with Venegre ; A-force it with 
stronge pouder of Canelle & of Galyngale, & a-lye it with a grete porcyoun 
of jolkys of Eyroun) ; coloure it with Safroun or Saunderys ; & whan Jou 
seruyste in, plante it wttA Chyriown, & serue f[orthj. 

.Cxxv. Vyolette. — Take Flourys of Vyolet, boyle hem, presse hem, bray 
hem smal, temper hem vppe w$th Almaunde mylke, or gode Co we Mylke, a-lye it 
wttA Amyndouw or Plowre of Rys ; take Sugre y-now, an putte Jer-to, or hony 
in defaute ; coloure it with Je same Jat Je flowrys be on y-peyntid a-boue. 

.Cxxvj. Rede Rose. — Take Je same, saue a-lye it with Je jolkys of eyrouw, 
& for Jsr-more as vyolet. 

.Cxxvij. Prymerose. — Ry$th as vyolette. 

.Cxxviij. Flowrys of hawjorn. 2 — In Je same maner as vyolet. 

8 .Cxxiz. A potage on a Fysdaye. — Take an sethe an .ij. or .iij. Applys 
y-p[or]ede, 4 & strayne hem Jorw a straynoure, & Flowre of Rys Jer- with ; Jan 
take Jat whyte Wyne, & strayne it wttA-alle ; Jan loke Jat it be nowt y-bounde 
to moche with Je Ploure of Rys, Jan jif it a-boyle ; Jen caste Jer-to Saunderys & 
Safroun, & loke it be marbylle; 5 Jan take Roysonys of corauns, & caste Jer-on, 
& Almaundys y-schredyd Jer-on y-nowe; & mynce Datys Smale, & caste 
Jer-on, & a lytil Hony to make it dowcet, or ellys Sugre ; Jenne caste Jer-to 
Maces & Clowys, Pepir, Canelle, Gyngere, & oj^r spycery y-now ; Jen take 
Perys, & sethe hem a lytil'; Jen reke hem on Je colys tyl Jey ben tendyr ; Jan 
smale schrede hem rounde; & a lytil or Jou serue it in, Jrow hem on Je 
potage, & so serue hem in almost flatte, nojt Pullyche. 

.Cxxx. Brewes in Lentyn. — Take a feweFygys, & seje hem & draw hem 

1 MS. Chyr>is. 3 MS. Hawiorn. 9 leaf 23. * MS. y-pede. 5 i.e. variegated. 



30 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLBIAN IIS. 279. POTAGB DYYERS. 

Jorw a straynoure with Wyne; Jen putte Jer-to a lytil Hony; Jen toste 
Brede, & Salte it ; & so broune & rennyng as Brwes, serae hem in, & straw 
pouder Canelle y-now Jer-on atte Je dressoure, & serue it forth. 

.Cxxzj. A potage colde. — Take Wyne, & drawe a gode Jikke Milke of 
Almaundys with Wyne, $if Jou mayste ; Jen putte yt on a potte, caste Jer-to 
Pouder Canelle & Gyngere & Safrroua ; Jen lat it boyle, & do it on a cloje ; & 
$if Jou wolt, late hym ben in dyuers colourys, Jat on whyte witA-owte 
Spyces, & Jat ojar jelow with Spicerye. 

.Cxxxij. Sanke 1 Sarsoun. — Take Almaundys, & blaunche hem, & frye 
hem in oyle ojer in grece, Jan bray hem in a Mortere, & tempore hem with 
gode Almaunde mylke, & gode Wyne, & Jen Je Jrydde p*rty schal ben 
Sugre ; & jif it be nojt Jikke y-nowe, a-lye it with Alkenade, & Plorche* it 
a-bouyn with Pome-garned, 8 & messe it ; serue it forth. 

.Cxxxiij. Rapeye. — Take Pykys or Tenchys, ojer freysshe Pysshe, & frye 
it in Oyle ; Jen nyme crustys of whyte brede, & Raysonys & Canelle, an bray 
it wyl in a mortere, & temper it vppe wyth gode wyne ; Jen coloure it wttA 
Canelle, or a litil Safrown : Jan boyle it, & caste in hoi Clowys & Quybibes, 
& do Je Pysshe in a dysshe, & Jan serue forth. 

.Cxxxiiij. Apple Moyle. — Nym Rys, an bray hem wyl, & temper hem with 
Almaunde mylke, & boyle it ; & take Applys, & paw hew, an smal screde 
hem in mossellys ; Jrow on sugre y-now, & coloure it wttA Safrotm, & caste 
Jer-to gode pouder, & serue f[orth]. 

.Cxxxv. Applade Ryalle. — Take Applys, & seje hem tylle Jey ben tendyr, 
& Jan lat hem kele ; Jen draw hem Jorw a straynowr ; & on flesshe day caste 
Jer-to gode fatte broje of freysshe beef, an whyte grece, & Sugra, & 
Safroun, & gode pouder ; & in a Pysshe day, take Almaunde mylke, & oyle 
of Olyff, & draw Jer-vppe with-al a gode pouder, & serue forth. An for 
nede, draw it vppe with Wyne, & a lytil hony put J*r-to for to make it Jan 
dowcet ; & serue it forth. 

.Cxxxyj. A potage of Roysons. — Take Raysonys, & do a- way Je kyrnellys ; 
& take a part of Applys, & do a- way Je corys, & Je pare, 4 & bray hem in a 
mortera, & temper hem with Almawde Mylke; & melle hem with flowre of 
Rys, Jat it be clene chargeaunt, & straw vppe-on pouder of Galyngale & of 
Gyngere, & serue it forth. 

.Cxxxvij. Chykons in dropeye. — They schul ben fayre y-boylid in fayr* 
watere tyl Jey ben y-now, Jen take hem fyrst, & choppe hem smal : & whan 
1 Sauce. * Flourish ; garnish. 9 If. 23 bk. * P peel. 



OOOKZKT 







Jey ben j-wr ( *«■«■ xjo* & £*e* Ajnamaa* n^fe if >t ak. & ivi 

Wyne : a-lye it -wrii J jljimim. i w- vni 4ian» af Iry* - fat K icy** 

freyashe groee, & ?■=—* Alfieaaait W'-H- & ^fc i* nums fep-i£. 4: jpy >e 

qnarteryB .t. «t .t^_ it m m ibIii . is x "wii* waar mtk. *t 5ii ir *z? >f 

dressoare, : 

Jon lyst, pa* Jern 

& Jan serve farik. 

.Czxxriq. Paf& — Tiit ax apfs* m safe ^nacS rf Pocks. & 2H& ?r jcBtt, 
as tendyr as )v* ar: tax nit sex. ■ ! > » ft: sbsoatt beat as saaCas }« 
may; Jan take cupweb & Maeet. ft ainpj* inr± T^*-*Zit. ft: Ajs» d&iroe ixtk 
w«i* R ojman* «f (■■iiimi- : Vax ttke beat ft tujs beat as ~naac as fm aoay, 
lyke to oaale ptactrpt. a ij. zvzae* a-bea-St. rax jey beat ck. a ryasbe be beat 
seine ; Jaa anke a g»de 4 Tianmat- atylkfL. ft m It* it anru f rrar c£ tty&. * la 
it boyle wri, bet k4* Jal it be ejese rextbc: * at Je dressaare, ky 
.v. pompys im a ilj mht , k ys*t J=x yrtape Jer-ot- Ax ^f J#w ^rait, settle o* 
euery pompe a flos ettpy x £mt, & a-baae tfzir c* Sxgre y-aow, ft: Maces : 
& seine heat fortk. And srs nee make Je peZettys of Tele or Bee&, but 
porke ys beste k iayrcat, 

.fiTTTir CanaVI Ferry itamtji wrtt * MajMagr.— Take FleysAe of 
Capoun, or of Porke, & hakke ben aval, ft; do it in a asortere an bray it wyU 
& temper it rppe wrti capoun broje Jat it be vyl ebargeeunt; Jan nym 
mylke of Ahnaimdya, take *>DcyB of eyrom*, & Sainton, & melle bem 
to-gederys Jat it be a?lom% k do Jer-to ponder Candle, k styke Jer-oa Clovis* 
Maces, k Qnybibis, k warwt f[ortb]. 

.CzL Egredflueye.— Take Porke or Beef, wbejer Je lykey, k leche it 
}?inne Jwerte*; Jen broyle it bronn) a litel, k }en mynce it lyke Yenyson ; 
cboppe it in sewe, fen carte it in % potte k do )*r-to Freyssb brotbe ; take 
Erbis, OynonyB, Percely k Sawge, k o\er gode erbis, Jen lye it vppe wt\A 
Brede ; take Pepir k Safronn, ponder Canel, Yynegre, or Eysel Wyno, Bro)»« 
an Salt, k let jet* boyle to-gederys, tylle ]?ey ben y-now, k Jan mtuo it 
forth renny[n]g. 

.Cxlj. Hoteye.— Take a gret porcyonn of Haselle leuys, k grynd in a mortor 
as smal as J?on may, wbyl Jat Jey ben jonge ; take Jan, k draw vppo a Jrifb 
Mylke of Almanndys y-blanncbyd, & temper it witA Frey&sh* broje ; wryng 
out clene Je Ius of Je leuys ; take Fleyssh* of Porke or of Capoun, & grynd it 
smal, & temper it vppe witA Je mylke, & caste it in a potte, k Jo Ius Jcr-to, 

Meaf 24. * ? field-flower. * MS. yxctrU. « If. 24 bk. • It. 



32 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. FOTAGE DYVERS. 

do it oner Je fyre -& late it boyle ; take flour of Rys, & a-lye it ; take & caste 
Sugre y-now Jar-to, & Vynegre a quantyte, & pouder Gyngere, & Safrou» it 
wel, & Salt; take smal notys, & breke hem ; take Je kyrnellys, & make hem 
whyte, & frye hem vppe in grece ; plante Jer-wttA Jin mete & serue inrth. 

.Cxly. Yyande Eyalla.— Kyme gode Mylke of Almaundys, & do it in a 
potte, & sette it ouar Je fyre, & styre it tyl it boyle almost ; Jen take flour 
of Rys & of Je selue Mylke, an draw it Jorwe a straynoure, & so Jer-wttA 
a-lye it tylle it be Chargeaunte, & stere it f aste Jat it crouste nojt ; Jen take 
[gap in MS.~\ owte of grece, & caste it Jorw a Skymoure, & colour Jat Sewe 
Jar-wetA ; Jan take Sugre in confyte, & caste in y-now ; sesyn it with Salt 
& ley jre lechys in a dysshe, & caste Aneys in comfyte Jer-on, & Janne same 
forth. 

.Cxliij. Lampreys in galentyn. — Take Brede, & stepe it with Wyne & 
Vynegre, & caste Jar-to Canelle, & draw it Jorw a straynoure, and do it in a 
potte, & caste pepir Jar-to ; Jan take Smale Oynonys, mynce hem, frye hem in 
Oyle, & caste Jer-to a fewe Saunderys, *an let hem boyle a lytil ; Jen take Je 
lampronys & skalde hem with [gap in MS.'] & hot water*, & sethe & boyle 
hem in a dysshe, & cast Je Sewe vppe-on, & serue forth for a potage. 

.Cxliiij. Schyconys with Je bmesse. — Take halfe a dosyn Ghykonys, & 
putte hem in-to a potte ; Jen putte Jer-to a gode gobet of freyssha Beef, & lat 
hem boyle wyl ; putte Jer-to Percely, Sawge leuys, Sauerey, no$t to smal 
hakkyd ; putte Jer-to Safroun y-now ; Jen kytte Jin Brewes, & skalde hem 
wit A Je same broje ; Salt it wyl; & but Jou haue Beef, take Motoua, but 
fyrste Stuffe Jin chekons in Jis wyse : take & seje hard Eyrouw, & take Je 
jolkys & choppe hem smal, & choppe Jer-to Clowys, Maces, Hole Pepir, & 
Stuffe Jin chekonys wttA-al; Also put hole gobettys & marye witAynne ; 
Also Jen dresse hem as a partryche, & fayre coloure hem, & ley vppe-on Jis 
browes, & sarue in with Bakoun. 

.Cxlv. Blaunche Perreye.— Take Pesyn, & waysshe hem clene, & Jen take 
a gode quantyte of fyne leye, & putte it on a potte, & a lytil water Jar- to ; & 
whan Je ley is sejin hot, caste Je Pesyn Jer-to, & Jar late hem soke a gode 
whyle ; Jen take a quantyte of wollen cloje, & rubbe hem, & Je holys 8 wyl 
a- way ; Jenne take a seve or a wheterydoun, & ley Jin pesyn Jar-on, & go to 
Je water, & waysshe hem clene a- way Je holys, Jen putte hem in a potte, & 
Jey wyl alle to-falle with a lytil boylynge, to pereye, saue Je whyte Pepyn is 
Jar-in, & Jat is a gode sy;th ; Jen Salt hem, & serue hem forth. 
1 leaf 26. * Hulls, shacks. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAX M8. 279. POTAOE DYVERS. 33 

.Cxlvj. Ryjth 80 Caboges 1 Ben seruyd, saue men sayn it is gode Also to 
ley hem in a bagge ouernyjth in rennyng streme of water*, & a-morwe sette 
vppe watere, & when Je water is skaldyng hot, Jrow hem Jeron, & hoole 
hem in J*re wyse be-forsayd, & serue forth. 

a .Cxlvy . Brwes in lentyn. — Take Water & let boyle, and draw a Iyer ]?er-to 
of Brede, of ]?e cromys, with wyne y-now ; lete alle ben wyne almost ; Jen put 
Jer-to hony a gode quantyte, Jat it may ben dowcet, Jan putte ponder Pepir 
J*r-to, Clowys, Maces, and Saunderys, & Salt, & skalde Jin* brewes tender, & 
serue f[orth]. 

.Cxlviij. Whyte Pesyn in gnmey.— Take Whyte Pesyn, & hoole hem in 
Je maner as men don Caboges, or blaunche perry ; Jan sethe hem wttA 
Almaunde mylke vppe, putte Jer-to Sugre y-now, & fryid Oynonys & Oyle, 
& Berne f [orth]. 

.Cxlix. A Potage. — Take an sethe a fewe eyrori) in red Wyne; Jan take & 
draw hem Jorw a straynoure wttA a gode mylke of Almaundys; Jen caste 
Jer-to Roysonys of Coraunce, Dates y-taylid, grete Roysonys, Pynes, ponder 
Pepir, Sawndrys, Clouys, Maces, Hony y-now, a lytil doucete, & Salt ; Jan 
bynde hym vppe flat with a lytyl flowre of Rys, & let hem ben Red with 
Saunderys, & serue hym in flatte ; & jif Jou wolt, in fleyssh tyme caste vele 
y-choppid J*r-on, not to smale. 

.CI. Cawdel out of lento. — Take & make a gode mylke of Almaundys 
y-draw vppe with wyne of Red, whyte is beterw ; jif it schal be whyte, 
Jan strayne jolkys of Eyroun J*r-to a fewe. Put 4 J*r-to Sugre & Salt, 
but Sugre y-now ; Jen when it begynnyth to boyle, sette it out, & almost 
flatte ; s^rue it then forth, & euer kepe it as whyte as Jou may, & at Je 
dressoure droppe Alkenade Jer-on, & serue forth ; & $if Jou wylt haue hym 
chargeaunt, bynd hym vppe with SLour [of] Rys, ojer with whetyn floure, 
it is no fors. And jif Jou wolt, coloure hym wttA Safrown, & straw on 
pouder y-now, & Sugre y-now, & serue f[orth]. 

.Cy. Creme Bastarde. — Take Je whyte of Eyroun a grete hepe, & putte 
it on a panne f ul of Mylke, & let yt boyle ; 5 Jen sesyn it so with Salt an hony 
a lytel, Jen lat hit kele, & draw it Jorw a straynoure, an take fayre Cowe 
mylke an draw yt wttA-all, & seson it with Sugre, & loke Jat it be poynant 
& doucet : & serue it forth for a potage, or for a gode Bakyn mete, wheder 
Jat Jou wolt. 

.Clij. Capoun in Salome. — Take a Capoun & skalde hym, Roste hym, Jen 

1 t.*. Cabbages in just the same way. 2 If. 25 bk. 8 Thine. 4 MS. but. * If. 26. 



34 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. LECHE VYAUNDEZ. 

take Jikke Almaunde mylke, temper it wyth wyne Whyte o)&r Red, take a 
lytyl Saunderys & a lytyl Safroun, & make it a marbyl coloure, & bo atte Je 
dressoure Jrow on hym in ye kychoun, & Jrow Je Mylke a-boue, & Jat is 
most commelyche, & serae forth. 

.Cliy. Pompys. — Take Beef, Porke, or Yele, on of hem, & raw, alle to- 
choppe it atte Je dressoure, Jan grynd hem in a morter as smal as Jgu may, 
Jan caste J*r-to Raw jolkys of Eyroun, wyn, an a lytil whyte [sugre] : caste 
also Jer-to ponder Pepyr, & Macys, Clowes, Quybibys, pouder Canelle, 
Synamoun), & Salt, & a lytil -Safroun; Jen take & make smale Pelettys 
round y-now, & loke Jat Jou haue a fayre potte of Preysshe broje of bef or 
of Capoun, & euer Jrow hem Jer-on & lete hem sethe tyl Jat Jey ben y-now ; 
Jen take & draw vppe a Jryfty mylke. of Almaundys, wttA cold freysshe 
broje of Bef, Vele, Motori), ojer Capotm, & a-lye it with floure of Rys & with 
Spycerye; & atte Je dressoure ley Jes pelettys .v. or .yj. in a dysshe, & Jen 
pore Jin sewe aneward, 1 & s*rue in, or ellys make a gode Jryfty Syryppe & 
ley Jin 2 pelettys atte Je dressoure J*r-on, & Jat is gode saruyse. 3 

*LECHE VYAUNDEZ. 

.1. Brawn i» comfyte. — Take Preysscfc Brawn & sethe yt y-now, & pare 
it & grynde it in a mortere, & temper it with Almand mylke, & draw 6 it 
Jorw a straynoure in-to a potte, & caste Jer-to Sugre y-now, & powder of 
Clowys, & let boyle ; Jen take floure of Canelle, & pouder of Gyngere ; & 
Jen take it out of Je potte, an putte it in a lynen cloje & presse it, but lat it 
boyle so longe in Je potte tylle it be alle Jikke ; Jan take it vppe & presse it 
on a cloje, & Jen leche it fayre w*tA a knyff , but not to Jinne ; & Jaw jif Jou 
wolt, Jou myjht take Je Rybbys of Je bore al bare, & chete 6 hem enlongys 
Jorw Je lechys, an so serue forth a leche or to in euery dysshe. 

jj. Blannche Brawen. — Take Preysshe Braun, & mynce hew smal, & take 
gode Jikke mylke of Almaundys y-blaunchyde, & putte alle in-to a potte, & 
Sugre, & lat boyle alle to-gederys tyl it be ryjt styffe ; Jen caste it vppe, & 
caste it in a fayre cold basyn, & lette it stonde J*r-in tyl it be cold ; & Jen 
leche .ij. or .iij'. in a dysshe, & serue forth. 

.iy. Pynade. — Take Hony & gode pouder Gyngere, & Galyngale, & Canelle, 
Pouder pepir, & graynys of parys, & boyle y-f ere ; Jan take kyrnelys of 
Pynotys & caste Jer-to ; & take chyconys y-soje, & hew hem in grece, & 

1 on it. 2 Thine. 8 four blank pages follow. 

* If. 27 bk. * MS. dray. 6 Set, see Douce MS. No. 48. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. LECHE VYAUNDEZ. 35 

caste ]?er-to, & lat seje y-fere ; & Jen lat droppe Jer-of on a knyf ; & jif it 
eleuyth & wexyth hard, it ys y-now ; & Jen putte it on a chargere tyl it 
be cold, & mace 1 lechys, & serue with ojer metys; & jif Jou wolt make it 
in spycery, Jen putte non chykonys Jer-to. 

.ii\j. Gyngerbrede. — Take a quart of bony, & eethe it, & skeme it clene ; 
take Safroun, pouder Pepir, & Jrow ]?er-on ; take gratyd Brede, & make it so 
ehargeaunt 3 Jat it wol be y-lechyd; Jen take pouder Canelle, & straw Jer-on 
y-now; Jen make yt 8 square, lyke as Jou wolt lecbe yt; take when Jou 
lecbyst byt, an caste Box leves a-bouyn, y-stykyd Jer-on, on clowys. And 
jif Jou wolt baue it Bed, coloure it with Saunderys y-now. 

.v. Lecbe lumbarde. — Take Datys, an do a- way Je stonys, & setbe in 
swete "Wyne ; take bem vppe, an grynd bem in a mortere ; draw vppe Jorw a 
straynoure wttA a lytyl wbyte Wyne & Sugre, And caste hem on a potte, & 
lete boyle tylle it be styff ; Jen take yt vppe, & ley it on a borde ; Jan take 
pouder of Gyngere & Canelle, & wryng it, & molde it to-gederys in Jin bondys, 
& make it so styf Jat it wolle be lecbyd ; & jif it be nojt styf y-nowe, take 
hard jolkys of Eyron) & kreme* Jer-on, or ellys grated brede, & make it 
Jicke y-now ; Jen take clareye, & caste Jer-on in maner of a Syryppe, when 
Jou shalt s^rue it forth. 

.vj. Auter maner lecbe lumbarde. — Take fayre Hony, and clarifi yt on 
Je fyre tylle it wexe bard ; Jen take bard $olkys of Eyroun, & kryme 4 a gode 
quantyte Jer-to, tyl it be styf y-now ; an Jenne take it vppe, & ley it on a 
borde ; Jen take fayre gratyd Brede, & pouder pepir, & molde it to-gederys 
with Jine bondys, tylle it be so styf Jat it wole ben lecbyd ; Jan lecbe it ; Jen 
take wyne & pouder Gyngere, Canelle, & a lytil claryfyid hony, & late renne 
Jorw a straynour, & caste Jis Syryp Jer-on, when Jou shalt s*rue it out, 
instede of Clerye. 

.vy. Soupes of Salomere. — Take boylid Porke, & hew yt an grynd it ; 
Jen take cowe Mylke, & Eyroun y-swonge, & Safrouw, & mynce Percely 
bladys, & caste Jer-to, & let boyle alle y-fere ; & dresse vppe-on a cloje, & 
kerne Jer-of smal lechys, & do hem in a dyssbe ; Jen take almaunde mylke & 
flowre of Kys, and Sugre an Safroun, & boyle it alle y-fere ; Jen caste Jin 5 
sewe on Jin 5 lechys, & serue forth alle hote. 

6 .viij. Lette lardes.—Take kowe mylke, & do Jer-to Eyroun y-swonge ; 
Jan take ryjt fatte Porke y-sotbe, & hew it smalle, & sethe it ; take pouder 
Gyngere, Galyngale, or Pepir ; caste Jer-to, colour it wytb Safroun, & caste 
1 A. make. * stiff. s If. 28. * Crimme; crumble. 6 Thine. • If. 28 bk. 



36 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. LECHE VYATJNDEZ. 

all Jese to-gederys, & boyle it, & gadre Je croddes to hepe wtU-al ; Jen take 
vppe Je croddys to hepe with Ale, & presse hem on a cloje ; Jan kerne Jer-of 
lechys, & Roste it on a gredyre, & strawe Sngre y-now alle a-bowte ; & jif 
Jou wolt make Jat on syde Rede, an Jat ojer jelow, Take Pannes, & make as 
I haue sayd, & colonre Jat on panne with Saunderys, an Jat other with 
Saffroune, an ley on a cloje to-gederys, Je Rede fyrste on Je cloje, an [lat] 
Je jelow be abouyn Je Rede, & presse hem to-gederys, & that on syde wol 
ben rede, & Jat ojer jelow. An $if Jow wolt hane it Motley, take Jre potty s, 
& make letlardys in eche, & colonre Jat on with Saunderys, & Jat ojer wyth 
Safroune, & Je Jrydde on a-nother degre, so Jat Jey ben dyuerse ; an when 
Jey boyle, caste al to-gederys in-to on, an stere hem a-bowte with Jin hond, 
& Jan presse hem, and he wol be Motley whan he ys lechyd. 

.ix. Mange Moleynne. — Take Aim aundys, anblaunche hem, an draw Jorw 
a straynoure a Jicke mylke in-to an potte ; Jan take brawn of a Capoun, an 
hew it smalle, an do it in a potte, an lye it with Floure of Rys ; an do Jer-to 
whyte grece, & sethe alle to-gederys ; an when it is y-sothe, take vppe of Je 
fyre, & do Jer-in Sugre y-now ; Jen take blannchyd Almaundys, & frye hem, 
& ley .iij. lechys on a dysshe, & on enery leche prycke .iij. Almaundys; an 
Jan serue it forth. 

.x. Vyaund de leche. — Take whyte Wyne a god quantite, *an putte it on 
a potte ; Jen putte Jer-to raw jolkys of eyroun y-tryid, & ponder of clowys, 
& pouder canel y-now, an Safroun y-now ; Jan lat it boyle tyl it be ryjth 
chargeawnte, an Jen sette it doun ; & take an sette oner a panne of cowe milke, 
& Jrow Saunderys y-nowe Jer-on ; Jen make a styf poshote* of Ale ; Jen take 
Je croddys, an lat it honge on a pyn in a cloje, an lat it cleue euer Jerue- 
owt; 3 Jen take Je cawdel forsayd, & melle hem to-gederys in a cloje, witA 
Je poshotte ; * Jen put Jer-on Sugr*, Canel, pouder Gyngere y-now ; presse 
hem vp sware, 4 an leche it, & serue it forth. 

.^j. Vyaund leche. — Take cowe Mylke, & set it oner Je fyre, & Jrow 
Jer-on Saunderys, & make a styf poshotte of Ale ; Jan hang Je croddys Jer-of 
in a pynne, in a fayre cloje, and lat it ouer-renne ; Jan take it & put hony 
Jer-to, & melle it y-fere ; Jen feche Je croddys of Je deye, 6 & melle hem to- 
gederys, & lay it on a chesefatte or it be torne, .iij. fold or iiij. fold, in lynen 
cloje, & salt it, & leche it ; & Janne serue it forth. 

.xij. Vyaund leche. — Take Eyroun, Je whyte & Je jolke, and caste hem 
in a morter, an breke hem wyl ; Jan take cowe mylke & caste Jer-to, & menge 
1 If. 29. 2 Posset. 3 Throughout P * Square. 6 Dairymaid. 



COOKERY BtfOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. LECHE VYATJNDEZ. 37 

hem wyl to-gederys ; Jan put al in a panne, & lat boyle ; & with ale make it 
to a poshotte ; Jen hange Je croddys in a pynne, & let it ouer-renne ; melle 
Je croddys wttAhony ; Jen take Je bladys of Barlyche, or of Percely, & sta/wpe 
hem, & wrynge Jorw a cloje; & so aUe Je grene, melle it a-mong ]?e croddys ; 
Jenne take ]?e cruddys Jat comen fro Je deye, melle hem to-gederys, presse 
hem, & serue hem forth ; an Je ooloure wyl ben Jan Motley. 

.xiij. Yyannd leche. — Take a gode quantyte of Brawn, an Hony, & a lytil 
brede, & let sethe to-gederys pouder Pepir, Clowys, l Maces, an Safroun, & 
draw it Jorwe a straynoure, & chafe it a litel, & caste it in fayre dysshis, an 
let it kele, & Jan Berue f [orth]. 

.xiiij. Yyannd* leche. — Take Hony a gode qnantite; Jen take pouder 
Pepir, & Safroun, & Canel, & caste Jer-to ; & Jen caste it on a dysshe, & let 
it kele, & serue forth. 

.xv. Storioun 3 leche. — Take an howe 8 of vele, & let boyle, butte fyrst 
late hym ben stepid .ij. or .iij. owrys in clene Water to soke out Je blode, 
& whan it is tender y-sothe, take hym vppe as fast as Jou may; Jan 
take harde jolkys of Eyroun redy sothe, & caste also Jer-to, & pouder 
Pepir y-now, & also choppe a-mong Je jynes 4 of Je fete clene y-pikyd, & a 
lytil Salt, nowt to moche, & presse hem on a clowte tyl a-morwe 5 ; Jan leche 
it, & lay hem in dysshis, an pore Jer-[on] a quantyte of Venegre, & Pepir, & 
Percely, & Oynonys smal mencyd, & serue forth. 

.xvj. Chare de wardoun leche. — Take Perys, & seje ham, & Pike ham & 
stampe ham, & draw hem' Jorw a straynoure, & lye it with Bastard ; Jen 
caste hem in-to a potte, & Safroun w*U-al, and boyle with Maces, Clowes, 
pouder Canel, Quibibes, & 6 a litel pouder Pepir, & Eolle hem vppe wttA 
Brede, Je cromes with-ia Jin hondys, & serue forth. 

.xvij. [Yyannd leche]. — Take calfes fete an hepe, & lat stepe in cold 

water* ; Jen boyle hem smal ; Jan take Je broje & gode Milke of Almaundys, 

& choppe Je Syneys 7 in-to Je same milk rythte smal ; Jan boyle it ouer Je 

fyre, & coloure it with Saunderys, & put Sugre y-now in-to Je potte ; & jif Jou 

wolt haue hym of .ij. colour, Jan take an coloure but half with Saunderys, 

& caste Jat ojen half in a dysshe, & lat it kele ; & whan it is cold, Jen Jat is 

y-colouryd with Saunderys, het it, & euene 8 melle it hote ; caste hem a-bouyn 

Je ojer, & lat kele, an Jan serue forth. Than take Sugre, a quantyte 9 of 

swete Wyne, & Blaunche pouder Jer-on, & make Sawce J*r«of ; And so 

colde, ley it in Je dysshis, be-helyd, 10 & Berue f[orth]. 

1 If. 29 bk. % Sturgeon. * Hock. 4 Sinews. 5 To-morrow. 

6 MS. & an. ' Sinews. 8 Euenly. 9 If. 30. 10 Covered. 



36 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. LECHE VYAUNDEZ. 

all Jese to-gederys, & boyle it, & gadre Je croddes to hepe with-al ; Jen take 
vppe Je croddys to hepe with Ale, & presse hem on a cloje ; Jan. kerue Jer-of 
lechys, & Roste it on a gredyre, & strawe Sugre y-now alle a-bowte ; & pi 
Jou wolt make ]?at on syde Rede, an Jat ojer jelow, Take Pannes, & make as 
I haue sayd, & colonre fat on panne with Saunderys, an Jat other with 
Saffroune, an ley on a cloje to-gederys, Je Rede fyrste on Je clo]?e, an [lat] 
Je jelow be abouyn Je Rede, & presse hem to-gederys, & that on syde wol 
ben rede, & Jat ojer jelow. An jif Jow wolt haue it Motley, take ]?re potty s, 
& make letlardys in eche, & coloure Jat on witA Sannderys, & Jat ojer wyth 
Safroune, & Je Jrydde on a-nother degre, so fat Jey ben dyuerse ; an when 
fey boyle, caste al to-gederys in-to on, an stere hem a-bowte with Jin hond, 
& Jan presse hem, and he wol be Motley whan he ys lechyd. 

.ix. Mange Moleynne. — Take Almaundys, anblaunche hem, an draw Jorw 
a straynoure a Jicke mylke in-to an potte ; Jan take brawn of a Capoun, an 
hew it smalle, an do it in a potte, an lye it with Floure of Rys ; an do Jer-to 
whyte grece, & sethe alle to-gederys ; an when it is y-sothe, take vppe of Je 
fyre, & do Jer-in Sugre y-now ; Jen take blaunchyd Almaundys, & frye hem, 
& ley .iij. lechys on a dysshe, & on euery leche pry eke .iij. Almaundys; an 
Jan serue it forth. 

.x. Vyaund de leche. — Take whyte Wjne a god quantite, *an putte it on 
a potte; Jen putte Jer-to raw jolkys of eyroun y-tryid, & ponder of clowys, 
& pouder canel y-now, an Safroun y-now ; Jan lat it boyle tyl it be ryjth 
chargeawnte, an Jen sette it doun ; & take an sette ouer a panne of cowe milke, 
& Jrow Saunderys y-nowe Jer-on ; Jen make a styf poshote 2 of Ale ; Jen take 
Je croddys, an lat it honge on a pyn in a cloje, an lat it cleue euer Jerue- 
owt; 3 Jen take Je cawdel forsayd, & melle hem to-gederys in a cloje, with 
Je poshotte ; a Jen put Jer-on Sugr*, Canel, pouder Gyngere y-now ; presse 
hem vp sware, 4 an leche it, & serue it forth. 

jrj. Vyaund leche. — Take cowe Mylke, & set it oner Je fyre, & Jrow 
Jer-on Saunderys, & make a styf poshotte of Ale ; Jan hang Je croddys Jer-of 
in a pynne, in a fayre cloje, and lat it ouer-renne ; Jan take it & put hony 
Jer-to, & melle it y-fere ; Jen feche Je croddys of Je deye, 6 & melle hem to- 
gederys, & lay it on a chesefatte or it be torne, .iij. fold or iiij. fold, in lynen 
cloje, & salt it, & leche it ; & Janne serue it forth. 

.xy. Vyaund leche. — Take Eyroun, Je whyte & Je jolke, and caste hem 
in a morter, an breke hem wyl ; Jan take cowe mylke & caste Jer-to, & menge 
1 If. 29. 3 Posset. 8 Throughout P * Square. 5 Dairymaid. 



COOKERY BtfOK. I. HARLEIAN M8. 279. LECHB VYATJNDEZ. 37 

hem wyl to-gederys ; Jan put al in a panne, & lat boyle ; & with ale make it 
to a po8hotte ; Jen hange Je croddys in a pynne, & let it ouer-renne ; melle 
Je croddys with hony ; Jen take ]?e bladys of Barlyche, or of Percely, & stawpe 
hem, & wrynge Jorw a cloje ; & so alle Je grene, melle it a-mong Je croddys ; 
Jenne take Je cruddys Jat comen fro Je deye, melle hem to-gederys, presse 
hem, & serue hem forth ; an ]?e ooloure wyl ben Jan Motley. 

.xiy . Vyaund leche. — Take a gode quantyte of Brawn, an Hony, & a lytil 
brede, & let sethe to-gederys pouder Pepir, Clowys, l Maces, an Safroun, & 
draw it Jorwe a straynoure, & chafe it a litel, & caste it in fayre dysshis, an 
let it kele, & Jan serue f [orth]. 

.xiiij. Vyauncb leche. — Take Hony a gode qnantite; Jen take pouder 
Pepir, & Safroun, & Canel, & caste Jer-to ; & Jen caste it on a dysshe, & let 
it kele, & serue forth. 

.xv. Storioun 2 leche. — Take an howe 8 of vele, & let boyle, butte fyrst 
late hym ben stepid .ij. or .iij. owrys in clene Water to soke out Je blode, 
& whan it is tender y-sothe, take hym vppe as fast as Jou may ; Jan 
take harde jolkys of Eyroun redy sothe, & caste also Jer-to, & pouder 
Pepir y-now, & also choppe a-mong Je jynes* of Je fete clene y-pikyd, & a 
lytil Salt, nowt to moche, & presse hem on a clowte tyl a-morwe 5 ; Jan leche 
it, & lay hem in dysshis, an pore Jer-[on] a quantyte of Yenegre, & Pepir, & 
Percely, & Oynonys smal mencyd, & serue forth. 

.xyj. Chare de wardoun leche. — Take Perys, & seje ham, & Pike ham & 
stampe ham, & draw hem Jorw a straynoure, & lye it with Bastard ; Jen 
caste hem in-to a potte, & Safroun wttA-al, and boyle with Maces, Clowes, 
pouder Canel, Quibibes, & 6 a litel pouder Pepir, & Eolle hem vppe with 
Brede, Je cromes wttA-in Jin hondys, & serue forth. 

.xvij. [Vyaund leche]. — Take calfes fete an hepe, & lat stepe in cold 

waters ; Jen boyle hem smal ; Jan take Je broje & gode Milke of Almaundys, 

& choppe Je Syneys 7 in-to Je same milk rythte smal ; Jan boyle it oner Je 

fyre, & coloure it with Saunderys, & put Sugre y-now in-to Je potte ; & jif Jou 

wolt haue hym of .ij. colour, Jan take an coloure but half with Saunderys, 

& caste Jat ojen half in a dysshe, & lat it kele ; & whan it is cold, Jen Jat is 

y-colouryd with Saunderys, het it, & euene 8 melle it hote ; caste hem a-bouyn 

Je ojer, & lat kele, an Jan serue forth. Than take Sugre, a quantyte 9 of 

swete Wyne, & Blaunche pouder Jer-on, & make Sawce J*r-of ; And so 

colde, ley it in Je dysshis, be-helyd, 10 & serue f[orth]. 

1 If. 29 bk. 8 Sturgeon. 8 Hock. * Sinews. 6 To-morrow. 

6 MS. & an. i Sinews. 8 Euenly. 9 If. 30. 10 Covered. 



36 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. LECHE VTAUKDEZ. 

all Jese to-gederys, & boyle it, & gadre Je croddes to hepe with-sl ; Jen take 
vppe Je croddys to hepe with Ale, & presse hem on a cloje ; Jan kerue Jer-of 
lechys, & Roste it on a gredyre, & strawe Sugre y-now alle a-bowte ; & jif 
Jou wolt make Jat on syde Rede, an Jat ojer jelow, Take Pannes, & make as 
I haue sayd, & coloure Jat on panne with Saunderys, an Jat other with 
Saffroune, an ley on a cloje to-gederys, Je Rede fyrste on Je cloje, an [lat] 
Je jelow be abouyn Je Rede, & presse hem to-gederys, & that on syde wol 
ben rede, & Jat ojer jelow. An jif Jow wolt haue it Motley, take Jre potty s, 
& make letlardys in eehe, & coloure Jat on with Saunderys, & Jat ojer wyth 
Safroune, & Je Jrydde on a-nother degre, so Jat Jey ben dyuerse ; an when 
Jey boyle, caste al to-gederys in-to on, an stere hem a-bowte with Jin hond, 
& Jan presse hem, and he wol be Motley whan he ys lechyd. 

.ix. Mange Moleynne. — Take Almaundys, an blaunche hem, an draw Jorw 
a straynoure a Jicke mylke in-to an potte ; Jan take brawn of a Capoun, an 
hew it smalle, an do it in a potte, an lye it with Floure of Rys ; an do Jer-to 
whyte grece, & sethe alle to-gederys ; an when it is y-sothe, take vppe of Je 
fyre, & do Jer-in Sugre y-now ; Jen take blaunchyd Almaundys, & frye hem, 
& ley .iij. lechys on a dysshe, & on euery leche pry eke .iij. Almaundys; an 
Jan serue it forth. 

.x. Vyaund de leche. — Take whyte "Wyne a god quantite, *an putte it on 
a potte ; Jen putte Jer-to raw jolkys of eyroun y-tryid, & ponder of clowys, 
& pouder canel y-now, an Safroun y-now ; Jan lat it boyle tyl it be ryjth 
chargeawnte, an Jen sette it doun ; & take an sette oner a panne of cowe milke, 
& Jrow Saunderys y-nowe Jer-on ; Jen make a styf poshote* of Ale ; Jen take 
Je croddys, an lat it honge on a pyn in a cloje, an lat it cleue euer Jerue- 
owt; 3 Jen take Je cawdel forsayd, & melle hem to-gederys in a cloje, with 
Je poshotte ; * Jen put Jer-on Sugr*, Canel, pouder Gyngere y-now ; presse 
hem vp sware, 4 an leche it, & serue it forth. 

.^j. Vyaund leche. — Take cowe Mylke, & set it oner Je fyre, & Jrow 
Jer-on Saunderys, & make a styf poshotte of Ale ; Jan hang Je croddys Jer-of 
in a pynne, in a fayre cloje, and lat it ouer-renne ; Jan take it & put hony 
Jer-to, & melle it y-f ere ; Jen feche Je croddys of Je deye, 6 & melle hem to- 
gederys, & lay it on a chesefatte or it be tome, .iij. fold or iiij. fold, in lynen 
cloje, & salt it, & leche it ; & Janne serue it forth. 

.xy. Vyaund leche. — Take Eyroun, Je whyte & Je jolke, and caste hem 
in a morter, an breke hem wyl ; Jan take cowe mylke & caste Jer-to, & menge 
1 If. 29. 2 Posset. 3 Throughout? * Square. * Dairymaid. 



COOKERY B(fc)K. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. LECHE VYAUNDEZ. 37 

hem wyl to-gederys ; Jan put al in a panne, & lat boyle ; & with ale make it 
to a poshotte ; Jen hange Je croddys in a pynne, & let it ouer-renne ; melle 
Je croddys with hony ; Jen take Je bladys of Barlyche, or of Percely, & stawpe 
hem, & wrynge Jorw a cloje; & so alle Je grene, melle it a-mong Je croddys ; 
Jenne take Je cruddys Jat comen fro Je deye, melle hem to-gederys, presse 
hem, & serue hem forth ; an Je ooloure wyl ben Jan Motley. 

.xiy . Vyaund leche. — Take a gode quantyte of Brawn, an Hony, & a lytil 
brede, & let sethe to-gederys pouder Pepir, Clowys, * Maces, an Safroun, & 
draw it Jorwe a straynoure, & chafe it a litel, & caste it in fayre dysshis, an 
let it kele, & Jan serue f [orth]. 

.xiiij. Vyaund* leche. — Take Hony a gode quantite; Jen take pouder 
Pepir, & Safroun, & Canel, & caste Jer-to ; & Jen caste it on a dysshe, & let 
it kele, & serue forth. 

.xv. Storioun 8 leche. — Take an howe 3 of vele, & let boyle, butte fyrst 
late hym ben stepid .ij. or .iij. owrys in clene Water to soke out Je blode, 
& whan it is tender y-sothe, take hym vppe as fast as Jou may; Jan 
take harde $olkys of Eyroun redy sothe, & caste also Jer-to, & pouder 
Pepir y-now, & also choppe a-mong Je jynes 4 of Je fete clene y-pikyd, & a 
lytil Salt, nowt to moche, & presse hem on a clowte tyl a-morwe 5 ; Jan leche 
it, & lay hem in dysshis, an pore Jer-[on] a quantyte of Venegre, & Pepir, & 
Pereely, & Oynonys smal mencyd, & serue forth. 

.xyj. Chare de wardoun leche. — Take Perys, & seje ham, & Pike ham & 
stampe ham, & draw hem Jorw a straynoure, & lye it with Bastard ; Jen 
caste hem in-to a potte, & Safroun witA-al, and boyle with Maces, Clowes, 
pouder Canel, Quibibes, &• a litel pouder Pepir, & Kolle hem vppe with 
Brede, Je cromes with-ia Jin hondys, & serue forth. 

.xvij. [Vyaund leche]. — Take calfes fete an hepe, & lat stepe in cold 

water* ; Jen boyle hem smal ; Jan take Je broje & gode Milke of Almaundys, 

& choppe Je Syneys 7 in-to Je same milk rythte smal ; Jan boyle it ouer Je 

fyre, & coloure it with Saunderys, & put Sugre y-now in-to Je potte ; & jif Jou 

wolt haue hym of .ij. colour, Jan take an coloure but half w*tA Saunderys, 

& caste Jat ojer* half in a dysshe, & lat it kele ; & whan it is cold, Jen Jat is 

y-colouryd w*tA Saunderys, het it, & euene 8 melle it hote ; caste hem a-bouyn 

Je ojer, & lat kele, an Jan serue forth. Than take Sugre, a quantyte 9 of 

swete Wyne, & Blaunche pouder Jer-on, & make Sawce J*r-of ; And so 

colde, ley it in Je dysshis, be-helyd, 10 & serue f[orth]. 

1 If. 29 bk. 2 Sturgeon. 3 Hock. * Sinews. 5 To-morrow. 

6 MS. & an. » Sinews. 8 Euenly. 9 If. 30. l0 Covered. 



38 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. LECHE VYATXNDEZ. 

.xviij. Vyannd leche. — Take a Tenche, an steue hym in a potte w*t* 
Wyne ; when he is y-now, pyke owt Je bonys, take an stampe hem in a 
morter ; Jen take a lytil of Jicke Almaunde mylke, & putte J*r-to ; Jen take 
hem vppe, & pntte hem in Je broje forsayde, Jat it was y-soje in, & Jat 
y-straynid; caste Jer-to Maces, Clowes, pouder Pepir, & Pouder Canelle; 
Jan caste Safron Jer-to ; Jen caste him in a dysshe, & lat hem kele ; Jen pnt 
Vynegr*, pouder Gyngew, Canel y-now in ye botmond 1 Jer-of, vnneje 
y-helyd. a 

.xix. Pome dorres. — Take Fylettys of Raw porke, & grynd hem wyl ; do 
Salt [and] pouder Pepir Jer-to ; Jan take Je Whyte of the Eyroun [and] 
Jrow J*r-to, & make hem so hard Jat Jey mow ben Hosted on a Spete ; make 
hem round as an Appil : make fyre wt'tA-owte smoke ; Jen take Almaunde 
mylke, & y-bontyd 3 flow, do hem to-gederys; take Sugro, &putte in Jin 4 batura; 
Jen dore hem with sum grene Jing, parcely or jolkys of Eyroun, to-geder, 
Jat Jey ben grene ; & be wyl war Jat Jey ben nowt Browne ; & sum men 
boyle hem in freysshe broj or Jey ben spetid ; & whan Jey ben so boylid, Jen 
Jey must ben sette an kelid, & Jan Spete hem, & dore hem with ;olkys of 
Eyroun y-mengyd with J© Ius of haselle leuys. 

.xx. Yrchouns. — Take Figgis mawys, & skalde hem wel ; take grouwdyn 
Porke, & knede it with Spicerye, with pouder Gyngera, & Salt & Sugre ; do it 
on Je mawe, but £lle it nowt to fnlle ; Jen sewe hem with a fayre Jrede, & 
putte hem in a Spete as men don piggys ; take blaunchid Almaundys, & kerf 
hem long, smaj, & scharpe, & f rye hem in grece & sugr* ; take a litel prycke, 
& prykke Je yrchons, An putte in Je holes Je Almaundys, every hole half, 
& eche fro ojer ; ley hem Jen to Je fyre ; when Jey ben rostid, dore hem sum 
wyth 6 Whete Plowre, & mylke of Almaundys, sum grene, sum blake with 
Blode, & lat hem nowt browne to moche, & s[erue] f [orth], 

.x^j. An Entrayle. — Take a chepis wombe ; take Polettys y-rostyd, & hew 
hem ; Jen take Porke, chese, & Spicery, & do it on a morter, & grynd alle 
y-fere ; Jen take it vppe with Eyroun y-swonge, & do in Je wombe, & Salt, & 
seje hem tyl he be y-nowe, & serue forth. 

.xxij. For to make floure Eys. — Take Rys, an lese hem clene ; Jen drow 
hem wyl in Je Sonne, Jat Jey ben drye ; Jan bray hem smal y-now ; & Jerow 
a crees bunte syfte hem, & for defaute of a bonte, take a Renge. 6 

.xxiij. Pome-Garnez. — Take lene Raw Porke, & lene raw Elesshe of 
hennys, & raw eyroun, & rent Je flesshe fro Je bonys, & hew it smal ; take 
1 Bottom. 2 Scarcely covered. 3 Bolted, sifted. 4 Thine. 6 If. 30 bk. « Ring strainer. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. LECHE VYAUNDEZ. 39 

Janne Salt, Gyngere, & Safroun, Salt, Galyngale, Jer-of y-now, & caste it in 
a morter, & bray it smal ; take Jan Jin fleysshe, & caste it in-to J«t morter to 
Je Spycery, & Jat it be wyl y-grounde ; Jamie make Jer-of pelettys, as it were 
Apply s, be-twene Jin hondys ; loke Jou haue a fayre panne se thing ouere Je 
fyre, & do Jer-on Jin pelettys, & late hem nowt sethe to swythe, & Jan lat 
hem kele ; & whan Jey ben cold, jif hem a fayre spete of haselle, & be-twyn 
enery, loke Jer be an ynche, & lay hem to Je fyre : & Jan make Jin baturys, 
Je on grene, & Jat ojer jelow ; Je grene of Percely. * 

.xxiiij. Waflres. — Take Je Wombe of A luce, & seje hew wyl, & do it on 
a morter, & tender chese Jer-to, grynde hem y-fere; Jan take flowre an 
whyte of Eyroun & bete to-gedere, Jen take Sugre an pouder of Gyngere, & 
do al to-gederys, & loke Jat Jin Eyroun ben hote, & ley Jer-on of Jin 
paste, & Jan make Jitt waffrys, & serue yn. 

x .xxv. Hagws of a schepe. — Take Je Roppis* with Je talowr, 3 & parboyle 
hem ; Jan hakke hem smal ; grynd pepir, & Safroun, & brede, & jolkys of 
Eyroun, & Raw kreme or swete Mylke : do al to-gederys, & do in Je grete 
wombe of Je Schepe, Jat is, the mawe ; & Jan seje hym an jaerue forth ynne. 

xxyj. Frawnchemyle. — Nym Eyroun with Je whyte, & gratid Brede, & 
chepis talow, Also grete as dyse; nym Pepir, Safroun, & grynd alle to- 
gederys, & do in Je wombe of Je chepe, Jat is, Je mawe ; & seje hem wyl, 
& serue forth. 

xxvij. Appraylere. — Take Je fleysshe of Je lene Porke, & seje it wel : & 
whan it is soje, hew it smal; nym Jan Safroun, Gyngere, Canel, Salt, 
Galyngale, old chese, myid 4 Brede, & bray it smal on a morter; caste Jin 5 
. fleysshe in to Je spicery, & loke Jat it be wil y-ground, & temper it vppe 
with raw Eyroun ; Jan take a longe Pecher, al a-bowte oner alle Jat it be 
ransched ; 6 Jan held 7 out Jin grece, & fulle Ji Pechir of Jin farsure, & take 
a pese of fayre Canneuas, & doble it as moche as Jou may ceuyr Je mouje 
wiih-el, & bynd it fast a-bowte Je berde, 8 & caste hym to seje with Jin 
grete Fleysshe, in lede ojer in Cauderoun, for it be wyl sojin ; take Jen 
vppe Jin Pecher, & breke it, an saf Jin farsure ; & haue a fayre broche, 
& broche it Jorw, & lay it to Je fyre; & Jan haue a gode Bature of 
Spicerye, Safroun, Galyngale, Canel, & Jer-of y-now, & flowre, & grynd 
smal in a morter, & temper it vp with raw Eyroun, & do Jer-to Sugre of 
Alisaunder 9 y-now ; & euer as it dryit, baste it with bature, & sette forth 
in B^ruyce. 

i If. JH. 2 Guts. * Tallow; fat. * Crumbed. * Thine. 

6 Rinsed. 7 Cast. » Bira. • Alexandria. 



40 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLE1AN MS. 279. LECHB VYAUNDEZ. 

.xxviij. Cokyntryce. — Take a Capoun, & skald hym, & draw hem clene, 
& smyte hem a-to in Je waste ouerjwart ; take a Pigge, & skald hym, & 
draw hym in Je same maner, & smyte hem also in Je waste ; take a nedyl 
& a Jrede, & sewe Je fore partye of the Capoun to Je After parti of Je 
Pygge ; & Je fore partye of Je Pigge, to Je hynder party of Je Capoun, & 
J? an stuff e hem as Jou stuffy st a Pigge ; putte hem on a spete, & Roste hym : 
& whan he is y-now, dore hem with jolkys of Eyroun, & pouder Gyngere & 
Safroun, Jenne wyth Je Ius of Percely wttA-owte; & Jan serue it forth 
for a ryal mete. 

.xxix. Milke Eostys. — Take swete Mylke, an do it in a panne; take 
Eyroun with alle Je whyte, & swenge hem, & caste Jer-to ; colour it w*tA 
Safroun, & boyle it so Jat it wexe Jikke ; Jan draw it Jorw a straynoure, 
& nym that leuyth, 3 & presse it : & whan it is cold, larde it, & schere on 
schevres, 8 & roste it on 4 a Gredelle, & Btrue f[orth]. 

.xxx. Alows de Beef or de Motown. — Take fayre Bef of Je quyschons, 6 & 
motoun of Je bottes, & kytte in Je maner of Stekys ; Jan take raw Percely, 
& Oynonys smal y-scredde, & jolkys of Eyroun soje hard, & Marow or 
swette, & hew alle Jes to-geder smal ; Jan caste Jer-on poudere of Gyngew & 
Saffroun, & tolle hem to-gederys with Jin hond, & lay hem on Je Stekys 
al a-brode, & caste Salt Jer-to ; Jen rolle to-gederys, & putte hem on a round 
spete, & roste hem til Jey ben y-now ; Jan lay hem in a dysshe, & pore 
Jer-on Vynegre & a lityl venous, & pouder Pepir J*r-on y-now, & Gyngere, 
& Canelle, & a fewe jolkys of hard Eyroun y-kremyd J*r-on ; & serue forth. 

.xxxj. To make Stekys of venson) or bef. — Take Yeny son or Bef, & leche 
& gredyl it vp broun ; Jen take Vynegra & a litel verious, & a lytil "Wyne, 
& putte pouder perpir J*r-on y-now, and pouder Gyngew ; & atte Je dressoure 
straw on pouder Canelle y-now, Jat Je stekys be al y-helid J*r-wyth, & but 
a litel Sawce ; & Jan serue it forth. 

.xxxtj. A Siryppe pwr vn pestelle. — Take gode Wyne, & a-lye yt *with 
raw jolkys of Eyroun ; Jan late hem boyle to-gederys a whyle ; Jen put 
pouder Pepir, & Jrow it Jer-on; loke Jat it be bytyng of Pepir. Take* 
Clowys, macys, Safroun, & caste J*r-to; & atte Je dressoure Jorw on Jin 
Sirip on Ji pestelle, & kreme hard jolkys of Eyroun J*r-to, & serue forht. 

.xxxiij. Pygge y-farsyd. — Take raw Eyroun, & draw hem Jorw a strayn- 
oure; Jan grate fayre brede; take Safroun & Salt, & pouder of Pepir, & 
Swet of a schepe, & melle alle to-gederys in a fayre bolle ; Jen broche Jin 

1 If. 31 bk. * Take what remains. 8 Shivers ; thin strips. 

* MS. # on. * Cushions. • If . 32. 



COOKERY BOOK, I. HARLE1AN MS. 279. LECHE VYAUNDEZ. 41 

Pygge; Jen farce hym, & sewe Je hole, & lat hym roste; & Jan serue 
forth. 

.xxxiiij. Foddyng of Capon* necke. — Take Percely, gysour, & Je leuer 
of Je herte, & parboyle in fayre water ; Jan choppe hem smal, & put raw 
jolkys of Eyroun .ij. or .iij. J*r-to, & choppe for-w*t#. Take Maces & 
Clowes, & put Jer-to, & Safroun, & a lytil pouder Pepir, & Salt ; & fille 
hym vppe & sew hym, & lay him a-long on Je capon Bakke, & prycke hym 
Jer-on, and roste hym, & serue f[orth]. 

.xxxv. Capoun or gos farced. — Take Percely, & Swynys grece, or Sewet 
of a schepe, & parhoyle hem to-gederys til Jey ben tendyr; Jan take 
harde jolkys of Eyroun, & choppe f or-with ; caste J*r-to Pouder Pepir, 
Gyngere, Canel, Safroun, & Salt, & grapis in tyme of jere, & clowys 
y-nowe ; & for defawte of grapis, Oynons, fyrst wil y-boylid, & afterward 
alle to-choppyd, & so stuffe hym & roste hym, & serue hym forth. And 
jif Je lust, take a litil Porke y-sode, & al to-choppe hit smal a-mong Jat 
ojer ; for it wol be Je better, & namely * for Je Capoun. 

.xxxyj. Pokerounce. — Take Hony, & caste it in a potte tyl it wexe 
chargeaunt y-now ; take & skeme it clene. Take Gyngere, Canel, & Galyn- 
gale, & caste J*r-to ; take whyte Brede, & kytte to trenchours,* & toste ham ; 
take Jin paste whyle it is hot, & sprede it vppe- 8 on Jin trenchourys with 
a spone, & plante it with Pynes, & serue f[orth]. 

.xxxvij. Sauoge. — Take Pigis fete clene y-pekyd; Jan tak Freysshe broje 
of Ben 3 , & draw mylke of Almaundys, & Je Piggys Jer-in ; Jen mence 
Sawge ; Jan grynd hym smal, & draw owt Je Ins Jorw a straynoure ; Jan 
take clowys y-now, & do Jer-in pouder Gyngere, & Canelle, Galyngale, 
Vynegre, & Sugre y-now ; Salt it Jan, & Janne serue forth. 

.xxxviij. A Kyde a-Forsyde. — Take a pigge, & make hym clene, and 
Skyline hym, & Fylle it f ul of suche mete as Jou dost a capoun ; Jan take 
je fleysshe, & vntrusse hym on a spete, in Je maner of a kede, & roste hym ; 
& endore hym with jolkys of Eyroun as an kede, & Jan serue forth. 

.xxxix. Eyroun in lentyn. — Take Eyroun, & blow owt Jat ys wttA-ynne 
atte pjer ende ; Jan waysshe Je schulle clene in warme Water ; Jan take gode 
mylke of Almaundys, & sette it on Je fyre ; Jan take a fayre canvas, & pore 
Je mylke Jovon, & lat renne owt Je water ; Jen take it owt on Je cloje, & 
gader it to-geder* with a platere ; Jen putte sugre y-now J*r-to ; Jan take Je 
halvyndele, & colour it with Safroun, a lytil, & do Jer-to pouder Canelle ; 
1 MS. a namely, 8 two trenchers, big slices. 3 If. 32 bk. 



42 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. LECHE VYAUNDEZ. 

Jan take & do of Je whyte in the nej*r ende of Je schulle, & in Je myddel 
Je jolk, & fylle it vppe w*tA Je whyte ; but nojt to fulle, for goyng ouer ; Jan 
sette it in Je fyre & roste it, & serue f[orth]. 

.zl. Puddyng of pwrpaysse. — Take Je Blode of hym, & Je greoe of hym 
self , & Ote-mele, & Salt, & Pepir, & Gyngere, & melle Jese to-gederys wel, 
& Jan putte Jis in Je Gutte of Je purpays, & Jan lat it seje esyli, & not 
hard, a good whylys ; & Jan take hym vppe, & broyle hym a lytil, & Jan 
Berue f [orth], 

.xli. Raynollej. — Nym sode Porke & chese, & seje y-fere, & caste Jer-to 
gode ponder Pepir, Canelle, Gyngere, Clowes, Mac[e]j, *an close Jin comade 
in dow, & frye it in freysshe grece ryjt wel ; an Janne serue it forth. 

.xlij. Froyse in lentynne. — Take Fygis & Roysonys, & grynde hem in a 
mortere, & draw vppe with kreme of Almaundys ; Jan take Rys Jorw a 
cloje ; Jan take Je Luce, an Je Perche, & Je Schrympe, & seje hem, & do 
a- way Je bonys, & Je hedys, & grynde hem in an Mortere, & draw hym vppe 
with Je creme of Je Almaundys ; Jen take Rys, & do hem on a potte ouer Je 
fyre, Whan Jey ben clene, with a lytil Watere, late hem seje til Jey ben 
drye, & Jat Jey schorge; Jan take & hew on a borde, & do Jer-to; Jen 
take Sugre, & Safroun a goode quantyte, & gode pouder, & caste \er-to, 
& boyle it y-fere, & frye it in oyle, & make Jer-of a Froyse, & Berue 
f[orth]. 

.xliij. Payn pur-dew. — Take fayre jolkys of Eyroua, & trye hem fro Je 
whyte, & draw hem Jorw a straynoure, & take Salt and caste Jer-to ; Jan 
take fayre brede, & kytte it as troundej rounde ; Jan take fayre Boter Jat 
is claryfiyd, or ellys fayre Freysshe grece, & putte it on a potte, & make 
it hote ; Jan take & wete wyl Jin troundej in Je jolkys, & putte hem in Je 
panne, an so frye hem vppe ; but ware of cleuyng to the panne ; & whan it 
is fryid, ley hem on a dysshe, & ley Sugre y-nowe Jer-on, & Janne serue 
it forht. 

.xliiij. Meselade.* — Take Eyroun, Je jolkys an Je whyte to-gedere, & 
draw hem Jorw a straynoure ; & Jan take a litil Botere, & caste in a fayre 
frying panne ; & whan Je boter is hot, take Je drawyn Eyroun, & caste 
Jer-to ; Jan take a Sawcere, an gadre Je Eyroun to-gedere in Je panne, as it 
were Je brede of a pewter dysshe; & Jan take fayre pecej of Brede, Je 
mountance of a mosselle of Brede, vppe-on Je Eyroun, & turne Jan [thy] 8 
brede downward in Je panne ; Janne 4 take it of Je panne, & caste fayre whyte 
1 If. 33. * See MaUsade in Douce MS. s Added from A. * If. 33 bk. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. LECHE VYAUNDEZ. 43 

Sugre Jer-to, & serue forth; an to euery good meslade take a Jowsand 
Eyroun or mo. 

.xlv. Brawune frye;. — Take Brawune, & kytte it Jinne ; Jan take Je 
jolkys of Eyroun, & sum of Je whyte Jer-wt tA ; Jan take mengyd Flowre, an 
draw Je Eyroun Jorw a straynoure ; Jen take a gode quantyte of Sugre, 
Saferoun, & Salt, & caste J*r-to, & take a fayre panne with Freyssche gres, 
& set ouer Je fyre; & whan Je grece is hote, take Je Brawn, an putte in 
bature, & turne it wyl Jer-yn, an Jan putte it on Je panne w»U Je grece, 
& late frye to-gederys a lytil whyle ; Jan take it vppe in-to a fayre dyssche, 
& caste Sugr* Jer-on, & Jan serue forth. 

.xlvj. Longe Fretoure. — Take Milke, an make fayre croddes J*r-of, in Je 
maner of a chese al tendyr ; Jan take owt Je whey as clene as Jou may, & 
putte it on a bolle ; Jan take jolkys of Eyroun & Ale, & menge floure, & cast 
Jer-to, a gode quantyte, & draw it Jorw a straynoure in-to a fayre vesselle ; 
Jan take a panne with fayre grece, & hete it on Je fyre, but lat it nowt 
boyle, & Jan ley Jin creme a brode ; Jan take a knyif, & kytte a quantyte 
Jer-of fro Je borde in-to Je panne, & efte a-nojer, & let it frye ; & whan 
it is brownne, take it vppe in-to a fayre dyssche, and caste Sugre y-now 
Jer-on, & serue forth. 

.xlvij. Eapeye. — Take dow, & make Jer-of a Jinnekake; Janne take Fygys 
& raysonys smal y-grounde, & temper hem with Almaunde Milke; take 
ponder of Pepir, & of Galyngale, Clowes, & menge to-gederys, & ley on Jin 
kake a-long as bene koddys, & ouer-caste Jin kake to-gederys, & dewte on 
Je eggys, an frye in Oyle, & serue forth. 

.xlviij. Eyschewysin lente. — Take Fygys & sethe hem uppe in Ale; 
Jan take whan Jey ben tendyr, & bray hem smal on a Morten; ! Jan take 
Almaundys, & schrede hem J*r-to smal ; take Perys, & schrede hem J*r-to ; 
take datyB, & schrede hem J*r-to ; & nym Milwel or lenge, Jat is wel 
y-wateryd, & tese Jer-to; Jan make Jin farsure, & rolle a-long in Jin 
hond, & ley hem in flowre ; Jan make Jin bature with ale & Floure, & 
frye hem vppe brown in Oyle ; ryjt so, make round-lyke Fretourys in Je 
maner be-for-sayd, & frye hem vppe, & Jat ben y-clepid Kagons, & Janne 
serue hem forth. 

.xlix. Hanoney.— Take an draw Je Whyte & Je jolkys of Je Eyroun Jorw 
a straynoure ; Jan take Oynonys, & schrede hem smal ; Jan take fayre 'Boter 
or grece, & vnneje kyner Je panne Jer-wttA, an frye Je Oynonys, & Jan 
caste Je Eyroun in Je panne, & breke Je Eyronns & Je Oynonys to-gederys ; 

Meaf 34 



44 COOKERY BOOK. I. HABLBIAK MS. 279. LECHE VYAUNDEZ. 

an Jan lat hem frye to-gederys a litel whyle ; Jan take hem vp, an serue 
forth alle to-broke to-gederys on a fayre dyssche. 

.1. Hagas de Almaynne. — Take Fayre Eyroun, Je jolke & Je Whyte, & 
draw hem Jorw a straynow; Jan take Fayre Percely , & parboyle it in a 
potte with boyling broje; Jan take Je jolkys of Eyroun hard y-sothe, & 
hew Je jolkys & Je Percely smal to-gederys; fan take Sugre, pouder 
Gyngere, Salt, & caste Jer-to ; Jen take merow, & putte it on a straynourys 
ende, & lat hange in-to a boyling potte ; & parboyle it, & take it vppe, & 
let it kele, & Jan kytte it in smal pecys; Jan take Je drawyn Eyroun, 
& put hem in a panne al a-brode, & vnneje ony grece in Je panne, & eowche 
ye jolkys & Je Percely Jer-on in Je panne, & Jan eowche of Je Marow pecys 
Jer-on, & Jan fold vppe eche kake by-neje eche corner in .iiij. square, as 
platte, and turne it on Je panne onej ; let lye a litel whyle ; Jan take it vp 
& serue f[orth], 

*4j . Cryspej. — Take Whyte of Eyroun, Mylke, & Floure, & a lytel Berme, 
& bete it to-gederys, & draw it Jorw a straynoure, so Jot it be renneng, & 
not to styf , & caste Sugre J*r-to, & Salt ; Janne take a chafer ful of freysshe 
grece boyling, & put Jin hond in Je Bature, & lat Jin bature renne dowun 
by Jin fyngerys in-to Je chaf ere ; & whan it is ronne to-gedere on Je chafere, 
& is y-now, take & nym a skymer, & take it vp, & lat al Je grece renne 
owt, & put it on a fayre dyssche, & cast Jer-on Sugra y-now, & serue forth. 

.ly. Eyschewys of Marow. — Take fayre' Flowre & raw jolkys of Eyroun, 
& Sugre, & Salt, & pouder of Gyngere, & Safroun, & make fayre cakes ; & 
Jan take marow, Sugre, & pouder of Gyngere, & ley it on Jin cake, & fold 
hem to-gederys, & kytte hem in Je maner of Bysschewes, & frye hem in 
freyssche grece, & Janne serue forth. 

.Iiij. Lesynges de chare.— Take fayre Buttys of Porke; hewe hem, & 
grynd hem, & caste Jer-to Raw jolkys of Eyroun, & Jen putte it in-to a 
fayre Yesselle; & take Roysonys of corauws, & dates myncyd, & pouder 
of Gyngere, Pepir, & Safroun, & Sugre, an melle all Jes to-gederys; & 
make fayre past of Sugre & Safroun, & Salt ; temper Jer-in, & make 
.ij. fayre flat cakys J*r-of, & lay Je stuf Jer-on al a-brode on Je cake al 
flat; & Jan take Jat ojer cake, & lay hym al a-brode Jer-on; & Jan kytte 
[the] cakys Jorw wtt^ an knyf in maner of lesyngys ; & Jan make fayre 
bature of Raw jolkys of Eyroun, Sugre, & Salt, & close Je sydys of Je 
lesyngj Jer-w*tA, & Jan frye hem in fayre grece, & serue forth. 

.liiij. Fretoure. — Take whete floure, Ale jest, Safroun, & Salt, & bete 

i leaf 34 bk. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. LECHE VYAUNDEZ. 45 

alle to-gedery8 as Jikke as Jou schuldyst make o\er bature in fleys9che 
tyme ; & Jan take fayre Applys, & kut hem in ma*ner of Fretourys, & wete 
hem in Je bature vp on downne, & frye hem in fayre Oyle, & caste hem 
in a dyssche ; & caste Sugr* Jer-on, & serue forth. 

.lv. Chawettys Fryidde. — Take & make fayre past of flowre & water, 
Sugre, & Safroun, & Salt; & fan make fayre round cofyns J*r-of ; & Jen 
fylle Jin cofyns with Jin stuf, & keuere Jin cofyns with Je same past, 
& frye hem in gode Oyle, & Berue f[orth], 

.lvj. Tansye. — Take fayre Tansye, & grynd in a morter; Janne take 
Eyroun, Je jolkys & Je whyte, & stray [ne] hem Jorw a straynoure; & 
strayne also Je Ius of Je Tansye, & melle to-gederes ; & take fayre Freysche 
grece, & put Jer-on ouer Je f yre, tylle it melte ; Jan caste Je stuf Jer-on, & 
gadere to-gedere with a Sawcer or a dysshe, as Jou wolt it, lasse ojer more, 
& turne it in Je panne ; & Jan serue it forth. 

Jvy. Froyse out of Lentyn. — Take Eyroun & draw Je pikes & Je whyte 
Jorw a straynoure ; Jan take fayre Bef or vele, & sethe it tyl it be y-now ; 
Jan hew cold oJ*r hote, & melle to-gederys Je eggys, Je Bef, or vele, ft 
caste Jer-to Safroun, & Salt, & pouder of Pepir, & melle it to-gederys ; Jan 
take a fayre Frying-panne, & sette it ouer Je fyre, & caste Jer-on fayre 
freysshe grece, & make it hot, & caste Je stuf Jer-on, & stere it wel in 
Je panne tyl it come to-gederys wel ; cast on Je panne a dysshe & presse 
it to-gederys, & turne it onys, & Janne s*rue it forth. 

.lviij. Eyschewys close & Fryez.— Take Fygys, & grynd hem smal in a 
mortere with a lytil Oyle, & grynd with hym clowys & Maces ; & Jan take 
it vppe in-to a -vesselle, & cast Jer-to Pynez, Saundrys, & Roysonys of 
Coraunce, & mencyd Datys, Pouder Pepir, Canel, Salt, Safroun ; 2 Jan take 
fyne past of flowre an water, Sugre, Safroun, & Salt, & make fayre cakys 
Jer-of ; Jan rolle Jin stuf in Jin hond, & couche it in Je cakys, & kyt 
it, & folde hym as Ruschewys, & frye hem vppe in Oyle; and serue 
forth hote. 

.lix. 3 Nese Bekys.— Take Fygys & grynd hem wel ; Jan take F[re]ywche * 
Samoun & goode Freyssche Elys wyl y-sothe, & pyke owt Je bony*, ft 
grynd Je Fyssche with Je Fygis, & do Jer-to powder Gyngere, Camilla ; ft 
take fayre past [of] 6 Flowre, & make fayre cakys ryth Jinne, ft tak* of J* 
fars, & lay on Je cake, & close with a-nojer; Jen take a Sawcere, ft tkmr* J# 
sydis, & close Je cake, ft Frye hem wyl in Oyle ; & jif J<m wolt \mw, hym 
1 leaf 35. » leaf 35 bk. » PMS. Nor M. * MS. Fyssche ; k.freuU * </*M*A U*mA. 



46 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. LKCHE VYAUNDEZ. 

partye, coloure hym with Saf roun, Percely, & Sawnderys ; & serue forth for 
a gode fryid mete. 

.lx. Mylej in Bapeye. — Take Fygys & wasche hem clene, and boyle hem in 
wyne, & grynd hem smal, & 4raw hem vppe with Je Wyne Jat Jey were 
sothyn in ; Jan take flowre of Kys, & Wjroe, & draw Jorw a straynoure, & do 
Jer-to pouder Gyng*r, Canelle, Macej, Quybibe$, & Jen take Freyssche 
Samoun, oJe[r] Pike or gode Freyssche Codlyng ; seje it wyl, & pike owt Je 
bonys; Jan take perys y-coryd, & grynde hem ryjth smal & wyl with Je 
Fyssche ; Jan take hard ;olkys of Eyroun sojin, & grynd it wyth-al, & do it 
in-to Jin veselle, & take with Sugre & ponder Gynger, & meng it with 
Je farcere 1 wyl, & presse hem to-gederys; Jan make a gode bature* of 
Almaunde mylke & Flonre, & do Jer-in, & frye hem wyl in Oyle, & ley 
hem yn a dyssche, & pore on Je Sew, & serue forth. 

.hg. Cruste Rolle. — Take fayre smal Flowre of whete ; nym Eyroun & 
breke Jer-to, & coloure Je past with Safroun ; rolle it on a borde also Jinne 
as parchement, rounde a-bowte as a an oblye ; 4 frye hem, & serue forth ; and 
Jus may do in lente, but do away Je Eyroun, & nym mylke of Almaundys, & 
frye hem in Oyle, & Jen serue forth. 

.lxij. Chawettys a-forsed. — Take Merybonys & Porke; hew it an Raw 
jolkys of Eyroun, & melle to-gederys with pouder Canelle, Pepir, Gyngere, 
& Safroun, & Sugre y-now ; kyuere hem, frye hem vp in Grece, & wrue forth, 
.lxiy. Fretoure owt of lente. — Take Flowre, Milke, & Eyroun, & grynd 
Pepir & Safroun, & make Jer-of a bature ; pare Applys, & ster hem, & frye 
hem vppe. 

.lxiiij. Towres. — Take & make a gode Jikke bature of jolkys of Eyroun, 
& marow y-now J^r-on, pouder pepir, Macej, clowes, Safroun, Sugre, & 
Salt ; & jif Jou wolt, a litel soje Porke or vele y-choppid ; J*r-to take Jen 
Je whyte of Eyroun, & strayne hem in-to a bolle ; Jan putte a lytil Saffroun 
& Salt to Je whyte, & sette a panne with grece ouer Je fyre, & be-war Jat 
Jin grece be nowt to hote; Jan putte a litel of Je Whyte comade in Je. 
panne, & late flete al a-brode as Jou makyst a pancake ; Jen, whan it is 
sumwhat styf, ley Jin comade of Jin Eyroun, Jat is to saying, of Je jolkys, 
in Je myddel, & caste by Je cake round a-bowte, & close hym foure-square, & 
fry hem vp, & s*rue hem forth for Soperys in Somere. 5 

1 Farcure ; stuffing. 2 MS. a gode a bature gode. 3 leaf 36. 

4 Oble y sacramental wafer. 6 four pages and a quarter blank here in the MS. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. DYUERSE BAKE METIS. 47 



'HERE BEGYNNYTH DYTJEKSE BAKE METIS. 

.1. Tartes de chare. — Take Ereyssche Porke, & hew it, & grynd it on 
a mortere ; & take it vppe in-to a f ayre vesselle ; & take Je whyte an Je $olkys 
of Eyroun, & strayne into a Yesselle Jorw a straynoure, & tempere fin 
Porke J*r-w*tA; Jan take Pynez, Roysonys of Coraunce, &, frye hem in 
frey88he grece, & caste J$r-to ponder Pepir, & Gyngere, Canelle, Sugre,. 
Safroun, & Salt, & caste J*r-to, & do it on a coiyTme, & plante Jin cofynne 
a-boue with Pynej, & kyt Datys, & gret Roysonys, & smal byrdys, or ellys 
hard $olkys of Eyroun ; & $if Jou take byrdys, frye hem on a lytel grece or 
Jow putte hem on Jin cofynne, & endore wttA jolkys of Eyroun, & Safroun, 
& lat bake til it be y^now', & serue forth. 

,ij. A-noJer manere. — Take Fygys, Roysonys, & Porke, & a lytel brede 



y-ground y-fere; take hym vppe, & put Pepir y-now Jer-to, & Macej, 
Clowys, & make Jin cofyn, & putte Jin comade Jer-on. 

.iij. A-noJer manere. — Tak fayre porke y-broylid, & grynd it smal with 
jolkys of Eyroun ; Jan take Pepir, Gyngere, & grynd it smal, & melle it 
wttA-al, & a lytel hony, & floryssche Jw cofyns w*t#-ynne & wt'U-owte, & 
hele hem with Jin ledys, 2 & late hem bake, & serue forth. 

.iig. Daryoles. — Take wyne & Er[e]ssche broje, Clowes, Maces, & Marow, 
& ponder of Gyngere, & Safroun, & let al boyle to-gederys, & put J*r-to 
creme, (& jif it be clowtys, draw it Jorwe a straynoure,) & jolkys of Eyroun, 
& melle hem to-gederys, & pore Je licoure Jat Je Marow was sojyn yn 
J*r-to; Jan make fayre cofyns of fayre past, & put Je Marow J^r-yn, & 
mynce datys, & strawberys in tyme of jere, & put Je cofyns s in Je ovyn, 
& late hem harde a lytel ; Jan take hem owt, & put Je licoure Jer-to, & late 
hem bake, & aerue f[orth]. 

.v. A-nother manere.— Take Pike, Almaunde Milke, & boyle yt Jikke, & 
let it kele ; Jan take Eyroun & chese, & grynd y-fere, & do Jer-to ; take 
pouder Sugre & caste Jer-to, & put in Jin cofyns, & nojt y-helyd, & bake, 
& Berue f[orth]. 

.vj. Tartes of Fyssche. — Take Eygys, & Roysoynys, & pike an sethe in 
"Wyne ; Jan take Costardys, Perys, & pare hem clene, & pike out Je core, & 
putte hem in a morter with Je frute ; Jen tak Codlyng or haddok, ojer Elys, 
& seje hem & pike owt Je bonys, & grynd alle y-fere, & do Jer-to a lytel 
wyne, & melle to-gederys : an do Jer-to Canelle, Clowys, Macej, Quybibej, 
1 If. 37 bk. • Lids. , * leaf 38. 



48 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. DYUERSE BAKE METIS. 

pouder Gyngere, & of Galyngale, & pepir, & Eoysonys of coraunce, and coloure 
it wttA Safroun. When Jou makyst Jin cofyns, Jan take gode fat Ele, & 
culpe hym, & take owt Je stonys of Datys, & farce hem; & blaunche 
Almaundys, & caste Jer-to ; but fyrste frye hem in Oyle, & couche al Jis 
a-mong, & bete Jin cofyns with Je ledys, & bake, & serue forth. 

.vy. Chawettys. — Take buttys of Yele, & mynce hem smal, or Porke, & 
put on a potte; take "Wyne, & caste Jer-to pouder of Gyngere, Pepir, & 
Safroun, & Salt, & a lytel verjous, 1 & do hem in a cofyn with jolkys of 
Eyroun, & kutte Datys & Eoysonys of Coraunce, Clowys, Macej, & Jen ceuere 
Jin cofyn, & lat it bake tyl it be y-now. 

.viij. Chawettys. — Take Porke y-sode, & mencyd Datys, and grynd hem 
smal to-gederys ; take jolkys of Eyroun, & putte Jer-to a gode hepe, & grene 
chese putte Jer-to; & whan it ys smal y-now, take Gyngere, Canelle, & 
melle wyl Ji cowmade Jer-wttA, & put in Jin cofyns ; Jan take jolkys of 
Eyroun 2 hard y-sothe, an kerue hem in two, & ley a-boue, & bake hem ; & 
so nojt y-closyd, s^rue forth. 

.ix. Malmenye Furne;. — Take gode Milke of Almaundys, & flowre of Eys, 
& gode Wyne crete, or Je brawn of a Capoune, ojer of Fesaunte, & Sugre, 
& pouder Gyngere, & Galyngale, & of Canelle, & boyle y-f ere ; & make it 
chargeaunt, & coloure it wttA Alkenade, ojer with Saunderys ; & jjf it be Red, 
a-lye it wttA jolkys of Eyroun; & make smal cofyns of dow, & coloure 
hem wttA-owte, & bake on an ovyn, & coloure w*tA-ynne & wyth-oute; 
Jen haue Hony y-boylid hote, & take a dyssche, & wete Jin dyssche in Je 
hony, & with Je wete dyssche ley Je malmenye & Je cofyns ; & whan Jey 
ben bake, & Jou dressest yn, caste a-boue blaunche pouder, Quybibe$, macej, 
Gelofrej ; & Janne serue it forth. 

.X. Sapeye. — Take Dow, & make Jer-of a brode Jin cake ; Jen. take Fygys 
& Eoysonys smal y-grounde, & fyrst y-sode, An a pece of Milwelle or lenge 
y-braid wttA-al ; & take pouder of Pepir, Galyngale, Clowej, & mence to-, 
gedere, & ley Jin comede on Je cake in Je maner of a benecodde, y-rollyd 
wttA Jin hond ; Jan ouer-caste thy cake o«er Ji comade, as it wol by-clippe 
hit ; & wttA a sawcere brerde go round as Je comade lyith, & kutte hem, 
& so he is kut & close wttA-al, & bake or frye it, & Janne serue it forth. 

.xj. Tartes of Frute in lente. — Take Fygys & sethe hem wyl tyl Jey ben 
neyssche; Jan bray hem in a morter, & a pece of Milwel Jer-wttA; take 
ham vppe & caste roysonys of coraunce J^r-to ; Jan take Almaundys & Dates 3 
1 verjuice. 3 If. 38 bk. 8 ' & Dates ' interlined by a later hand. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279, VYAUNDE FURNBZ. 49 

y-schred J*r-to; Jan take pouder of Pepir & meng wttt-al; Jen putte it on 
Jin cofynne, & Safroun Jin cofynn a-boue, & opyn hem a-bqwte Je 
myddel; & oner-cast Je openyng vppon Je lode, 1 & bake hym a lytel, & 
Berue f[orth]. 

2 .xij. Vn Vyannde Fnrne; san; nouw* de chare. — Take stronge Dow, & 
make a cake snmdele Jicke, & make it tow ; Jan take larde; of Venysoun, or 
a here, or of a Bere, & kerne hem Jinne as Fyletto of Porke, & lay Jin 
lardys square as a chekyr, & ley J*r-vppe a tyne y-makyd of Byronn vppe- 
on Je tyne ; ley Jin farsure, y-makyd of Hennys, & of Porke, of Eyroun, & 
myid brede, & Salt, & chese, yf }ou it hast; & Jat it be makkyd at .iiij. 
tymes. Fyrst make Jus Jin whyte farsure : grynd in a mortere, Gyngere, 
Canelle, Galyngale ; take then almaundys & floure of Bys, and a party of 
FleyBshe, & caste ther-to in a mortere, & grynd ryjth smal, & temper it 
with Eyroun. Jus make Jin jelow Farsure : nym Safroun, Gyngew, Canel, 
Galyngale, Brede, & a partye of Jin Fleyssche, & grynd it smal in Je 
mortere, & temper it vppe with Eyroun. The Jryd maner schal ben blake : 
nym Gyngere, Canelle, Galyngale, Brede, Eyroun, & Old chese ; nym Jan 
Percely, & grynd it smal in a mortere, & wryng it & do it vppe ; & do it 
to Jin Fleyssche, & Jer-wrtA coloure Jin f ayre partye of Fleyssche, & ley a 
party of Jin Fleyssche on .iiij. quarterys, but Jat Je brede be as Jin cake . 
take Jen & ley J*r-vppe-on Jin Fleyssche, & lay Jer-vppe-on a grece ; a-boue 
Jin grece ley Ji cyvey ; nym Jin Jridde cours of Jin Flessche* & lay as 
brode as Jin cake, & Jan grece, & Jer a-bouyn, a cyvey. 1fley Je iiij. course 
of Jin Fleyssche on .iiij.* quarterys as brode as Jin cake, & Jan grece, & 
Jan a-boue, a cyuey. The .v. cours of Jin Fleyssche, ley as brode as Jine 
cake, & Jen grece, & Jan aboue, a cyuey. Nym Je .vj. cours, & lay as brode 
as Jin cake, & Jan grece, & Jan a cyuey. Nym Je .viij. cours of Je 
Fleysshe, & lay as brode as Jin cake on .iiij. quarterys, & grece, & Jan a 
cyvey ; & a lytel bake hem, & serue forth. 

8 .xiij. Vn Vyannde furnez san; now de chare. — Take flowre, Almaunde 
milke, & Safroune, & make Jer-of .iiij. tynez, & frye Ji tynez in Oyle ; nym 
Jen Almaundys, & draw Jer-of mylke ryjt Jikke ; nym macej, Quybibej, & 
floure of Rys, Canelle, Galyngale ; take Jenne haddok, Creuej, Perchys, 
Tenche?, & seje; whan Jey ben sothyn, take Jin fyssche from Je bonys» 
& bray it ryjt smal with Jin Spicerye to-gederys, & make Jer-of Jin 
farsure. Whan it is y-makyd, departe it in .iiij. partyis, Jat o partye 

i lid. 2 leaf 39. » leaf 39 back. 

4 



50 COOKEEY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. VYAUNDB FURNEZ. 

whyte, Jat ojer jelow, Je Jrydde grene, Je ferje blak coloure with Fygys, 
Boysonys, an Datys; take Je firste cours of Je Fyssche, of al Je .iiij. 
cours, & ley on Jin cyvey a-bouyn Jin Fyssche, in .iiij. qnarterys, as a 
chekyr, as brode as Jin cake, & caste a-bouyn Sugre of Alysaundre, & 
Jer-vppe-on Jine tyne. Nym an-ojer cours, & ley on Ji .iiij. qnarterys 
as brode as Jin tyne, & Jer-vppe-[on] Jin Sugre. !Nym Je Jrydde cours 
of Jin Fyssche, & ley on .iiij. quarterys, & caste a-boue Sugre, & a tyne. 
Nym [Je] .iiij. cours a-cordant to Jin ojer, a-Jenched l to-geder, an a-boue 
a hole as a rose, & cetera. 

.xiiij. Pety Pernollys. — Take fayre Floure, Safroun, Sugre, & Salt, & 
make Jer-of past ; Jan make smal cofyns ; Jen take jolkys of Eyroun, & trye 
hem fro Je whyte ; & lat Je jolkys be al hole, & nojt to-broke, & ley .iij. 
or .iiij. zolkys in a cofyn; and Jan take marow of bonys, to or .iij. 
gobettys, & cowche in Je cofynn; Jan take ponder Gyngere, Sugre, 
Koysonys of coraunce, & caste a-boue; & Jan kyuere Jin cofyn with Je 
same past, & bake hem, & frye hem in fayre grece, & Berue f[orth]. 

.xv. Doucetej. — Take Creme a gode cupfulle, & put it on a straynoure ; 
Janne take jolkys of Eyroun & put Jer-to, & a lytel mylke ; Jen strayne it 
Jorw a straynoure in-to a bolle ; Jen take Sugre y-now, & put Jer-to, or 
ellys hony forde faute 8 of Sugre, Jan coloure it with Safroun ; Jan take J Jin 
cofyns, & put in Je ovynne lere, & lat hem ben hardyd ; Jan take a dysshe 
y-fastenyd on Je pelys ende ; & pore Jin comade in-to Je dyssche, & fro Je 
dyssche in-to Je cofyns ; & when Jey don a-ryse wel, take hem out, & seme 
hem forth. 

.xvj. Crustade. — Take vele, an smyte in lytel pecys in-to a potte, an 
wayssche yt fayre ; Jan take fayre water, & lat yt boyle to-gedere with 
Pereely, Sawge, Sauerey, & Ysope smal y-now an hew; & whan it is on 
boylyng, take pouder Peper, CaneH, Clowys, Maces, Safroun, & lat hem 
boyle to-gederys, & a gode dele of wyne Jer-wtU. Whan Je fleyssche is 
y-boylid, take it fro Je broje al clene, & lat Je broje kele ; & whan it is 
cold, take Eyroun, Je whyte & Je jolkys, & cast Jorw a straynoure, & put 
hem in-to the broje, so many J at Je broje be styf y-now; Jen make fayre 
cofyns, & cowche .iij. pecys or .iiij. of Je fleyssche in a cofyn; Jan take 
Datys, & kytte hem, & cast Jer-to ; Jan take pouder Gyngew, & a lytel 
verious, & putte in-to Je broje & Salt ; & Jan putte Je broje on Je cofyns, 
bake a lytel with Je fleyssche or Jwu putte Jin lycoure Jer-on, & lat al 

1 ? pinched, A. reads, " a->enched to-gedre aboue a hole, as a rose." * leaf 40. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. VYAUNDE FURNEZ. 51 

bake to-gederys tyl it be y-now; Janne [take] yt owt, and serue 
hem forth. 

.xvy. Cmstade lumbard. — Take gode Creme, & leuys of Percely, & 
Eyroun, Je jolkys & Je whyte, & breke hem Jer-to, & strayne Jorwe a 
straynoure, tyl it be so styf Jat it wol bere hym-self; Jan take fayre 
Marwe, & Datys y-cutte in .ij. or .iij. & Prunej; & putte Je Datys an 1 Je 
Prunej & Marwe on a fayre cofynne, y-mad of fayre past, & put Je cofyn 
on Je ovyn tyl it be a lytel hard ; Jeanne draw hem out of Je ouyn ; take Je 
lycour & putte Jer-on, & fylle it vppe, & caste Sugre y-now on, & Salt > 
Jan lat bake to-gederys* tyl it be y-now; & jif it be in lente, lef Je Eyroun 
& Je Marwe out, a & Janne serue it forth. 

.xviij. Flathons. — Take Milke an jolkys of Eyroun, & draw it Jorw a 
straynoure with whyte Sugre, ojer blake Sugw, & mylt fayre hotter, & putte 
Jer-to, & Salt ; & make fayre cofyns, & sette hem on Je ouen tyl Jey ben 
hard ; Jan take a pele with a dyssche on Je ende, & fylle Je dyssche wttA 
Jin comade, & pore in-to Je cofyns, & lat bake a lytel whyle ; Jan take hem 
out in-to a fayre dyssch, & cast whyte sugre Jer-on, & serue forth. 

.xix. Venyson y-bake. — Take hogfres of Venyson), & parboyle hem in 
fayre Water an Salt; & whan Je Fleyssche is fayre y-boylid, make fayre 
past, & cast Jin Yenyson Jer-on ; & caste a-boue an be-neje, ponder Pepir, 
Oyngere, & Salt, & Jan sette it on) Je ouyn, & lat bake, & serue forth. 

.zz. Pety Pernaunt**. — Take fayre Elowre, Sugre, Safroun, an Salt, & 
make Jer-offe fayre past & fayre cofyngw; fan take fayre y-tryid jolkys 
Raw, & Sugre, an pouder Gyngere, & Raysounys of Coraunce, & myncyd 
Datys, but not to smal ; Jan caste al Jis on a fayre bolle, & melle al to- 
gederys, & put in Jin cofyn, & lat bake ojer Frye in Freyssche grece. 

.Txj. Quyncis or Wardowns in past. — Take & make fayre Eounde cofyns 
of fayre past ; Jan take fayre Raw Quynces, & pare hem with a knyf , & take 
fayre out Je core J*r-of ; Jan take Sugre y-now, & a lytel pouder Gyngere, 
& stoppe Je hole fulle; & cowche .ij. or .iij. wardonys or quyncej in a 
cofyn, & keuere hem, & lat hem bake ; & for defaut of Sugre, take hony ; but 
Jen putte pouder Pepir Jer-on, & Gyngere, in Je maner be-for sayd. 

.xxij. Lamprotms y-bake. — Take lamprounys & skald hem with [blank in 
Jf&], & make fayre paste, & couche .ij. or iij lamprounys with pouder of 
Gyngere, Salt, Pepir, & lat hem bake; & leche 'Samoun in fayre brode 
pecys, & bake hem in Je maner be-forsayd, & Janne serue forth. 
1 MS. in. > leaf 40, back. * leaf 41. 



52 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. VYAUNDB FURNEZ. 

.xxiij. Lamprays bake. — Take & make fayre round cofyns of fyne past, 
& take Freyssche lampreys, & late hem blode .iij. fyngerys wttA-in Je tayle, 
& lat hem blede in a vesselle, & late hym deye in Je same vesselle in Je same 
blode ; Jan take broun Brede, & kyt it, & stepe it in Je Venegre, & draw 
Jorw a straynoure; Jan take Je same blode, & ponder of Canel, & cast 
Jer-to tyl it be bronn ; Jan caste Jer-to ponder Pepir, Salt, & "Wyne a lytelle, 
Jat it be nojt to strong of venegre. An skald Je Lampray, & pare hem clene, 
& conche hym round on Je cofyn, tyl he be helyd; 1 Jan kynere hym fayre 
with a lede, saue a lytel hole in Je myddelle, & at a Jat hool, blow in Je 
cofynne with Jin mowje a gode blast of Wynde. Xnd sodenly stoppe Je 
hole, Jat Je wynd a-byde wt'U-ynne, to reyse vppe Je cofynne, Jat he falle 
nowt a-downne ; & whan he is a lytel y-hardid in Je ouen, pryke Je cofyn 
with a pynne y-stekyd on a roddys ende, for brekyng of Je cofynne, & J? an 
lat bake, & serue forth colde. And when Je lamprey is take owt of Je 
cofynne & etyn, take Je Syrippe in Je cofynne, & put on a chargere, & caste 
"Wyne Jer-to, an ponder Gyngere, & lat boyle in Je fyre. Than take fayre 
Paynemayn y-wette in Wyne, & ley Je soppis in Je cofynne of Je lamprey, 
& ley Je Syrippe a-boue, & ete it so hot ; for it is gode lordys mete. 

.xxiiij. Tarfcw de chare. — Take Freyssche Porke, & hew it; & grynd it in 
a mortere, & lake it vppe in-to a fayre vesselle ; & take Je whyte of Eyroun & 
Je ?olke, y-tryid Jorw a straynonre; & temper Jin porke Jer-wttA; & Jan 
take Pynej, & Kaysonys of Coraunce, & frye hem in Freyssche grece, & 
caste ]>er-to 8 pouder Pepir & Gyngere, Canel, Sugre, Safroun, Salt, & caste 
Jar-to; & do it on a cofynne, & plante Je cofynne a-bone with Prunes & 
w*tA Datys, & gret Roysonys of Corannce, & smal Byrdys, or ellys harde 
jolkys of Eyroun; & yf Jow tage 4 Byrdys, frye hem in grece or Jou putte 
hem in Je cofyn) ; & Jan keuera Jin cofynne ; & Jan endore it with jolkys of 
Eyroun, & with Safroune, & late yt bake tyll it be y-now ; & Jan serue 
forth. 

.xxv. Rastons. — Take fayre Flowre, & Je whyte of Eyroun, & Je jolke, a 
lytel ; Jan take Warme Berme, & putte al Jes to-gederys, & bete hem to- 
gederys with Jin hond tyl it be schort & Jikke y-now, & caste Sugre y-now 
Jar-to, & Jenne lat reste a whyle ; Jan kaste in a fayre place in Je oven, & 
late bake y-now ; & Jen with a knyf cutte yt round a-boue in maner of a 
crowne, & kepe Je cruste Jat Jou kyttyst; & Jan pyke al Je cromys w*tA- 
ynne to-gederys, an pike hem smal with Jin knyf, & saue Je sydys & al Je 

1 covered. 2 Harl. ellys. A. efl, altered to at. 3 If. 41, bk. * take. 



\ 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLBIAN MS. 279. VYATJNDE FURNKZ. 53 

cruste hole wttA-owte ; & Jan caste Jer-in clarifiyd Boter, & Mille * Je cromej 
& jfe 2 botere to-gedere$, & keuere it a-;en with Je cruste, Jat Jou kyttest 
a- way ; Jan putte it in Je ovyn ajen a lytil tyme ; & Jan take it out, & seme 
it fortfi. 

.zxyj. Darioles.— Take "Wyne, an Freyssche broje, & Clowes, & Maces, & 
Marwe, ponder Gyngere, Safronn, & lat al boyle to-gederys, & Greme, (jif it 
be clowty, draw it Jorw a straynonre,) & jolkys of Eyroun, & melle hem 
to-gederys, & pore Je lycoure Jat Je marwe was sothe in, J*r-to ; Jen 
make fayre cofyns, & put Je Marwe J*r-in, & % mence Datis, & Strawberys 
in tyme of ^ere, & sette Je cofyns 3 in Je ovenne, & lat hem hard a lytelle, 
& take hem out, & put Je lycoure J*r-to, & lat bake ; & serue forth. 

.xxvij. Pyej de pare?. — Take & smyte fayre buttys of Porke, & buttys 
of Vele, to-gederys, & put it on a fayre potte, & do Jer-to Freyssche 4 broJe, 
& a qnantyte of wyne, & lat boyle alle to-gederys tyl yt be y-now ; Jan take 
it fro Je fyre, & lat kele a lytelle ; Jan caste J*r-to jolkys of Eyroun, & 
ponder of Gyngere, Sugre, & Salt, & mynced Datys, & Roysonys of 
Coraunce ; Jen make fayre past, and cofynnys, & do Jer-on ; kyuer it, & 
let bake, & serue f [orth]. 

.xxviij. Potrous. — Take a schouyl of yron), & hete it brennyng hote ; & 
Jan take it owt of Je fyre, & fille it fulle of Salt ; Jan make a pitte in Je 
Salt al holow, Je schap of a treen dyssche ; & sette Je panne & Je Salt 
oner Je fyre a-jen, tyl Je Salt be brennyng hote ; & Jan caste Jin whyte 
& Je jolkys of Eyroun in-to Je hole of Je Salte, & lat seje ouer Je fyre tyl 
it be half harde; & Jan put a dyssche half fulle of Salt; & Jan take a 
dressoure knyf , & put vnderneje Je Salt in Je panne, & hef • it vppe so fayre, 
Jat Je cofyn with Je Eyroun breke nojt ; Jan sette it on Je dyssche wyth 
Je Salt, & Jan serue it forth. 

.xxix, Flampoynto bake. — Take fayre Butte* of Porke, & seje hem in 
fayre Watere, & clene pyke a-way Je bonys & Je Synewes, & hew hem & 
grynd hem in a mortere, & temper with Je Whyte of Eyrotm, & Sugre, & 
pouder of Pepir, & Gyngere, & Salt; Jan take neyssche Cruddis, grynd hem, 
& draw Jorw a straynonre ; & caste Jw-to Aneys, Salt, pouder Gyngere, 
Sugre ; & Jan take Je Stuffe of Je Porke, & putte it on euelong cofyn of 
fayre past; & take a fejer, & endore Je Stuffe in Je cofyn with Je cruddys ; 
& whan it is bake, take Pynej, & clowys, & plante Je cofyn a-boue, a rew 
of on, & rew of a-nojer; & Jan serue f[orth], 
1 melle A. (mix). * MS. Je Je. » Cofyns A., fyre Harl. * leaf 42. 6 Heave ; lift 



54 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. VYAUNDE FURNEZ. 



t. Sewtrappe. — Take ,ij. lytel erjen pannys, & sette on Je colys 1 tyl 
Jey ben hote ; make a dyssche-f ulle of Jikke bature of Moure & "Watere ; take 
& grece a lytel Jat ojer panne, & do Je bater Jer-on ; & lat renne al a-bowte 
Je panne, so Jat Je pan be al a y-helyd ; take & sette Je panne a-jen ouer Je 
f yre of colys ; do Jat ojer panne a-boue Jat ojer panne, tyl it be y-baken 
y-now ; whan it is y-bake, Jat it wol a-ryse fro Je eggys of Je panne, take 
kydes Fleyssche & jong porke, & hew it ; take Percely, ysope, & Sauerey 
[and hew hit] 8 smal y-now ; & Jrow a-mong Je Fleyssche ;* & do it in a panne, 
& J?e cofynne, do it to Je colys ; hele it with Jat ojer panne, & do colys 
a-bouyn, & lat baken wyl ; whan it is y-now, take Eyroun, & breke hem ; 
take Je pikes, & draw Jorw a straynoure : caste to Je jolkys Hwyte Sugre, 
Gyngere, Canelle, Galyngale ; sture it wyl to-gederys ; take al j?is, & sette 
a-down Je panne, & cast in a-bonyn Je cofynne in Je panne : sture it 
to-gederys ; hele it ajenward with Jat ojer panne, & lay colys a-boue, & lat 
bake wyl tyl it be y-now ; take yt owt of Je panne, & do it out y-hole, or 
as moche as Jow wolt, & Janne serue it forth. 

.xxxj. Herbelade. — Take Butt** of Porke, & smyte hem in pecys, & sette 
it ouer Je fyre ; & seje hem in fayre "Water* ; & whan it is y-soje y-now, ley 
it on a fayre bord, & pyke owt alle Je bonys, & hew it smal, & put it in a 
fayre bolle ; Jan take ysope, Sawge, Percely a gode quantite, & hew it smal, 
& putte it on a fayre vesselle ; Jan take a lytel of Je broje, Jat Je porke was 
so Jin in, & draw Jorw a straynoure, & caste to Je Erbys, & af it a boyle ; Jenne 
take owt Je Erbys wttA a Skymoure fro Je broje, & caste hem to Je Porke in 
Je bolle ; Jan mynce Datys smal, & caste hem J*r-to, & Boysonys of Coraunce, 
& Pyne$, & drawe Jorw a straynoure jolkys of Eyroun Jw-to, & Sugre, & 
ponder Gyngere, & Salt, & coloure it a lytel wttA Safroune ; & toyle yt wttA 
Jin hond al Jes to-gederys ; Jan make fayre round cofyns, & harde hem 
a lytel in Je ovyn; Jan take hem owt, & wyth a 6 dyssche in Jin hond, fylle 
hem f ulle of Je Stuffe ; Jan sette hem Jer-in a-jen ; '& lat hem bake y-now, 
& serue forth. 

.xxxij. A bake Mete. — Take an make fayre lytel cofyns ; Jan take Perys, 
& nf Jey ben lytelle, put .iij. in a cofynne, & pare clene, & be-twyn euery 
pere, ley a gobet of Marow ; & yf Jou haue no lytel Perys, take grete, & gobet 
ham, & so put hem in Je ovyn a whyle ; Jan take Jin commade lyke as Jou 

1 A. on >* eolf/8 t Harl. yp colde. * leaf 42 back. 8 Added from A. 

4 A. adds " [take salt and do )*r-to, take the fleysshe] and do hit on >e panne." 
6 leaf 43. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. VYAUNDE FURNEZ. 55 

takyBt to Dowcetys, & pore J*r-on ; but lat Je Marow & Je Pecyj 1 ben sene ; 
& whan it is y-now, serue f[orth]. 

.xxxiij. A bake Mete Ryalle. — Take & make litel cofyns, & take 
Chykonys y-soje ; oJ*r Porke y-soje, & smale y-hackyd ; oJ*r of hem boje : 
take Glowys, Maces, Quybibes, & hakke wttA-alle, & melle yt with cromyd 
Marow, & lay on Sugre y-now ; Jan ley it on Je cofynne, & in Je myddel 
lay a gobet of marow, & Sugre round a-bowte y-now, & lat bake ; & Jis 
is for soperys. 

.xxxiijj. Crustade Ryal. — Take & pyke owt Je marow of bonys as hool 
as Jou may ; Jen take Je bonys, an seje hem in Watere, or 8 that Je broje be 
fat y-now ; Jen take Almaundys, & wayssche hem clene, & bray hem, & 
temper hem vppe with Je fat broje; Jan wyl Je mylke be broun; Jen take 
ponder Ganelle, Gyngere, & Sugre, & caste Jer-on ; Jan take & make fayre 
cofyns, & lat hem hard in Je ovyn ; Jan take Roysonys of coraunce, & ley in 
Je cofynne, & taylid Datys y-kyt a-long ; Jen take Eyroun a f ewe, y-straynid, 
& swenge a-mong Je Milke Je jolke ; Jen take the botmon of Je cofynne Jer 
Je Marow schal stonde, & steke \er gret an long gobettys Jar-on vppe- 
ryjt, & lat bake a whyle ; Jen pore Jin comade Jer-on half ul, & lat bake > 
& whan yt A-rysith, it is y-now ; Jen serue forth. 

.xxxv. Crustade. — Take a cofyn, & bake hym drye; Jen take Marw- 
3 bonys & do Jer-in ; Jenne nym hard jolkys of Eyroun, & grynde hem smal, 
& lye hem vppe wttA Milke ; Jan nym raw jolkys of Eyroun, & melle hem 
a-mong chikonys y-smete, & do Jw-inne ; & yf Jou luste, Smal birdys; & 
a-force wyl Jin comade with Sugre or hony ; Jan take clowys, Mace}, Pepir, 
& Safron), & put Jar-tq, & salt yt ; & Jan bake, & serue forth. 

.xxxvj. Crustade gentyle. — Take a Cofyn y-bake ; Jan grynd Porke or 
Vele smal with harde jolkys* of Eyroun; Jan lye it with Almaunde Milke, 
& make hem stondyng ; take Marow of bonys, & ley on Je cofynne, & fylle 
hem fulle with Jin comade, & serue f[orth]. 

.xxxvij. Doucetto. — Take Porke, & hakke it smal, & Eyroun y-mellyd 
to-gederys, & a lytel Milke, & melle hem to-gederys with Hony & Pepir, & 
bake hem in a cofyn, & serue forth. 

.xxxviy. Doucetto a-forcyd. — Take Almaunde Milke, & plkys of Eyroun 
y-melled to-gederys, Safroun, Salt, & hony ; dry Jin cofyn, & ley Ji» Mari- 
bonys. J*r-on, & caste Jin comade Jer-on, & serue f[orth]. 

.xtxix. Daryoles. — Take Milke an Eyroun, & Je fatte of Je Freyssche 

1 A. perys. * A. til that 3 leaf 43 back. 4 A. adds and raw pikes. 



56 COOKERY BOOK. 1. HARLEIAN MS. 279. YYAUNDE FURNEZ. 

broje, Pepir, & Safroun, & Hony ; dry J?in cofyn, & caste J?in comade J?er-on, 
& s*rue forth. 

.xl. Daryoles. — Take croddys of Je deye, & wryng owt J>e whey ; & take 
;olkys of Eyroun nowt to fewe, ne nojt to many, and strayne hem boje to- 
gederys J?orw a straynow, & ]?an hard Jrin cofynne, & ley ]?in marew Jer-in ; 
& pore J?in comade ]?*r-on, an bake hem, & seme hem forth. 

.xlj. Flathouns in lente.— Take & draw a Jarifty Milke of Alm&ndes; 
temper -with Sugre Water ; J?an take hardid cofyns, & pore \\n comad J?er-on ; 
blaunche Almaundis hoi, & caste th^r-on Pouder Gyngere, Canelle, Sugre, 
Salt, & Safrotm ; bake hem, & sense f [orth]. 

Amen. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HAUL. 279. HENKY IV.'s CORONATION FEAST. 57 



pcomnuiA 

Queedam Antiqua, viz. 
Conuinium 

1. Regis H. 4. in coronatione sua A D* 1, 1399. apud Westmonast*rt«»t. 

2. Conuinium Regis supradicti in nuptiis A "DP* apud Wyntomam. 

3. Cfcmuiuium Domini de La Grey, incerti temporis. 

4. Conuinium Ricardi Flemming Episcopi Lincolniensis, incerti temporis : 

ille tamen ibidem Episcopus institutus a Papa A D° 1420, circa 
annum nonum Regis H. 5. 

5. Conuinium ad funeralia Nicholai Bubbewith, Episcopi Bathon^ww et 

Wellen*w, die 4° Deo. A D° 1424, a 3° H. 6. 

6. Conuinium Johannis Stafford, qui successit Nicholao Bubbewith prefato, 

in indnctu suo ad Episcopatum Bathon^ww et Wellenm, die 16 Sept. 
A° D° 1425. 

7. Conuiuium in nuptijs Comitis Devonise, incerti tempore.] 



[JffaW.279,Jw/45.] 

Conuinium domtni Henrud Regis quarti, In coronacione sua apud 

Westmonofferntm. * 

Le pWmer cours. Heroun. 

Braunenpeiwarde. Crustade Lumbarde. 

Viaund Ryal. Stoneoun, graunt luc*. 

Teste de senglere enarmej. A Sotelte. 
Graund chare. i, e ,jj. cours. 

Syngnettys. __. . . , 

Capoundehautgrece. . Venyson en furmenty.' 

Fesaunte. Gely# 

1 Leaf 57. This Contents (between square brackets) is in a much later band, probably 
18th century. 
* Did Chancer get any of it, in return for bis humorous Purse appeal? 
3 A. $nform$d$. 



58 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARL. 279. HENRY IV.'s CORONATION FEAST. 



Porcelle farce enforce. 

Pokokkys. 

Cranys. 

Venyson Roste. 

Conyng. 

Byttore. 

Pull* endore. 

Graunt tartez. 

Braun fryez. 

Leche lumbarde. 

A Sotelte. 

Le .iij. cours. 
Blaundesorye. 
Quyncys in comfyte. 
Egretez. 
Curlewys. 



Pertryche. 

Pyionys. 

Quaylys. 

Snytys. 

Smal byrdys. 

Rabettys. 

Pome dorreng. 

Braun blanke lecbe. 

Eyfoun engele. 1 

Frytourys. 

Doucettys. 

Pety p*meux. 

Egle. 

Pottys of lylye. 

A Sotelte. 



Conuiuium Regis supradicti in nnpcijs apud Wyntoniam. 



Le .j. cours. 

Fylettys in galentyne. 

Vyaund Ryall*. 

Grosse chare. 

Signettys. 

Capoun of haut grece. 

Pesauntys. [fca/45, back.] 

Chewetys. 

A Sotelte. 

Le .ij. cours. 

Venyson wttA furmente. Potage. 

Gelye. 

Porcellys. 

Conynge. 

Bittore. 

Pulcyng** farce^. 

Pertryche. 

Leche fryez. 

Braun bruse. 

A Sotelte. 



Le .iij. cours 

Creme de Almaundys. 

Perys in Syryppe. 

Yenyson Rostyd. 

Kyde. 

Wodecokke. 

Plouere. 

Rabettys. 

Quaylys. 

Snytys. 

Feldefare. 

Smale byrdys. 

Crustade. 

Sturgeotm. 

Fretoure. 

A Sotelte. 

Ibidem conuiuium de pissibus. 
Le g. conrs. 
Yyaund Ryal. 
Sew lumbarde. 
iced eggs. 



30KERY BOOK. I. HARL. 279. HENRY IV. 's WEDDING FEAST. 59 



Salt IttTysshe. 


Sturioun. 


LaumJIpreys pouderyd. 


Crabbe au Creueys. « 


Pyke. \ 


Graspeys. 


Breme. « 


Egle coronys in sotelte. 


Samoun Mtostyd. 
Crustade Kumbarde. 




In Festo Sancte Trinitatis in cena. 


A sotelte. ^ 






Le .j. conrs. 


a\q .ij. cours. 


Brewys. 


Purpayis en *J furmente. 


Chykonys y-boylid. 


Gely. J 
Brerae. / 


Pygge en Sage. 


Spaulde de Motoun. 


Samoun. f 


Caponn Rostyd. 


Congre. I 


Pastelade. 


Gurnarde.j 




Plays. / 


Le .ij. conrs. 


Lamprey/s in past. 


Venysonn en broJ?e. 


Leche tfryez. 


Kyde Rostyd. 


Panteryse. 


Heronsewys. 


Coronys for a sotelte. 


Peionn. 


Le .iij. conrs. 


Venysoun Rostyd. 
Rabettys. 


Greme of Almannde. 


Pety p#rneux. 


Perys in syrippe. 




Tenche enbrace. 


Le iij. cours. 


Troutez. 


Gely. 


Floundrys fryid. [leaf 46.] 


Quaylys. 


Perchys. 


Samaca. 


Lamprey Eostyd. 


Pescodde. 


Elys Rostyd. 


Blannderellys. 


Loehys & colys. 


Strawberys. 



Conuiuium domini de la Grey. 

Le j. cours. Fryid Marlyng. 

Rys Moleynj. Gre ** Pyke. 

Yyaunde bruyse. Bakyn Elys. 
Bakunde Heryng. Le .ij. cours. 

Gros Salt fysshe. Compost \ 

Salt Samoun. Brode caneUe. ) Pota 8 e - 

Salt Elys. Codlyng. 



60 I. HARL. 279. FEASTS OF LORD DE OBEY AND BP. OF LINCOl 



Bucket. 
Bochys. 
Cheueyne. 
Flampoyne. 
Halybutte. 
Plays fryid. 
Trayne Boste. 
Vn Lechemete. 

Le .iij. cours. 
Gelye. [leaf 46 1 book.] 
Greme of Almaundys. 



Trowtys. 

Storione. 

Purpays. 

Wylkys. , 

Elys & Lamprouns Bostyd., 

Tenche. / 

Perche. 

Breme de Mere. 

Pyuenade in paste. 

Leche lumbarde. 

Che8meyne. 



oil. s. 



i 



Conuiuium Flemmynge, 
Le .j. cours. 
Perreyfyn. ) 
Rapeye. } P ota ^ 
Grete taylys of Milwelle, 
Anlenge. 1 
Samoun pollys. 
Salt Elys with galentyne. 
Gode Pyke an fat. 
Grosse tarte$. 

Le .ij. cours. 
Lampreys in galentyne. 
Vyand Byal. 
Haddok. 
Gurnard. 
Plays. 
Halybutte. 



Lincolnutfww EpiMcopi. 

Elys an Lampronys BostyO 
Flampayn. 

Le .iij. cours. \ 
Mammenye. 

Greme de .ij. colourys. 4 

Troutys. 
Storioun. 
Samon freysshe. 
Percbe. 
Walkys. 
Breme de Mere. 
Crabbe. 

Purpeys Bostyd. 
Goions fryid. 
Boucetys. 



Conuiuiuw Johannis Chaundelere, Episcopi Sarum, in introitu episcopatus 

sui: inearnibus. 
Le .j. cours. Pomys en gele. [leaf 47.} 

Furmenty en Venyson. Vn ^chemete. 

Yyaund cyprys. Taxt R 5' al - 

Capoun boilys. Vn sotelte. Agnus dei. 

Swan. Le .ij. cours. 

Fesaunt. Vyaund Byal. j p ota 

Pecokke. Blandyssorye. ) 

1 t.«. " Great tails of Milwell and Ling : " see next page, col. 2, near foot. 



I. HARL. 279. FEA8TS OF BPS. OF SALISBURY, & BATH & WELLS. 61 



Porcellys 


Bittore. 


Kyde. 


Curlewe. 


Crane. 


Pyioun. 


Venysoun Bostyd. 


Babettys. 


Heronsewes. 


Boderellys. 


Pulsons faxce. 


Quaylys. 


Pertryge. 


Larkys. 


Yn leche. 


Yyaunt Ardant. 


Grustade Byal. 


Vn lechemete. 


Yn sotelte : a Lebarde. 


Frytoury8 Lumbard. 


Le .iij. cours. 


Payn Puffe. 

Gele. 

Yn Sotelte : Aquila. 


Mammenye Eyal. 
Yyand. 



Conuiuium domtni Nichohw Bnbbewyth, nupir eyiscopi Bathon*w*w & 
WeUensis ad funerals ; videlic**, quarto die decembm, anno domtni 
Millesimo. CCCC mo vecessimo quarto : in oarnibns : — 



Le .j. cours. 

Nomblys de Boo. 

Blamangere. 

Braun, cum Mustard. 

Chynes de porke. 

Capoun Boste de haut grece. 

Swan Boste. , 

Heroun Bostyd. 

Aloes de Boo. 

Puddyng de Swan necke. 

Yn Lechemete. 

Yn bake, videlicet Crustade. 

Le .ij. cours. 
Bo Styuyd. 
Mammenye. 
Connyng Bostyd. 
Curlew. 

Fesaunt Bostyd. 

Wodecokke Boste. [toi/47, back.] 
Pertryche Boste. 
Plouer Boste. 



Snytys Boste. 
Grete byrdes Bosted. 
Larkys Bostyd 
Yennysoun de Bo Bostyd. 
Yrcbouns. 
Yn leche. 
Payn puffe. 
Colde bakemete. 



Conuiuiuot de piscibfw pro viris 
Religioaw ad fun^ralta predicts. 

Le .j. cours. 
Elys in sorry. 
Blamanger. 
Bakoun heryng. 
Mulwyl taylys.v^ 
Lenge taylys. 
Jollys of Samoun. 
Merlyng soJ>e. 
Pyke. 
Grete Plays. 



62 



I. HAUL 279. FEASTS OF THE BF. OF BATH AND WELLS. 



Leche barry. 
Crustade Ryal. 

Le .ij. cours. 

Mammenye. 

Crem of Aimanndys. 

Codelyng. 

Haddok. 

Freysse hake. 

Solys y-soje. 



Gurnyd broylid with a syryppe. 

Brem de Mere. 

Roche. 

Ferche. 

Menus fryid. 

Yrchouns. 

Elys y-rostyd. 

Leche lumbard. 

Grete Crabbys. 

A cold bakemete. 



Conuiuiuw Johannis Stafforde, Episeopi Wellenm in iwductu Eptowpatus 
sui, videlicet .xyj.° die Septembris, Anno domini millessimo CCCC 1110 
vicessimo quinto [1425]. 



Le .j. cours. 

Furmenty with venysoun. 

Mammenye. 

Brawnne. 

Kede Roste. 

Capoun de haut Grece. 

Swan. 

Heyroun. 

Crane. 

A leche. [leaf 48.] 

Crustade Ryal. 

Frutoure Samata. 

A soltelte, a docter of lawe. 

Le .ij. conrs. 
Blaunche Mortrewys. 
Yyand Ryal. 
Pecoke. 
Conyng. 
Fesaunte. 
Tele. 

Chykonys doryd. 
Pyions. 

Veysoun Rostyd. 
Gullys. 
Curlew. 



Cokyntryche. 
A leche. 

Pystelade chaud. 
Pystelade fryid. 
Frytoure damaske. 
A sotelte, Egle. 

Le .iij. conrs. 
Gely. 

Creme Moundy. 
Pety Curlewe. 
Egret. 
Pertryche. 
Venysoun "Roste . 
Plovere. 
Oxyn kyn. 
Quaylys. . 
Snytys. 

Herte de Abuse. 
Smale byrdys. 
Dowcet Ryal. 
Petelade Fryid. 
Hyrchouns. 
Eggys Ryal. 
Pomys. 
Brawn fryid. 



T. HARL. 279. FEA8TS OF BP. OF BATH & WELLS, & LD. DEVONSHIRE. 63 



A sotelte, Sent Andrewe. Leche. 

Frute. A bakemete. 

Waffrys. 

Vyn dowce. „ , 

J Mortrewys. 

, Pro inferiori parte Aule, & in alijs ^W& e% 

loois. >Conynge. 
Peionys. 

Le .j. oonrs. Ckykons. 

Furmenty with venysoun. Venysoun Eosted, 

Mammenye. Leche. 

Brawn. Frutoure. 

Xede Roste. Bakemete chaud. 

Capoun. Bakemete fryid. 



Le .ij. eours. 



A Byal Fest in J?e Feste at >e weddyng of >e Erie of Deuynchir*. 

A colde Bakemete. 
A sotelte: Homo. 

Le .iij. oonrs. 
Gely. 

Datys in comfyte. 
Fesaunt. 
Ghillys. 
Poper. 

Mawlard de la Ryuer. 
Peionys 
Pertryclie. 
Curlew. 

Pomez endoryd. 
I. Leche. 
Payn Puffe. 
A sotelte : Arbor. 

Pro inferiori parte Auli. 

Le .j. oonrs. 
* 

Venyson en Bro)?e. 

Spawdys 8 de Motoun. 

Kyde. 

chaudewym. 3 Spaut or Spaud, Shoulder. 



Le .j. oonrs. 

Furmenty with Venysoun. 

Vyand Goderygge. 

Vele Roste. 

Swan with chawderoun. 8 

Pecokke. 

Crane. 

•v. 

Vn leche. 
Vn Fryid mete. 
Vn pasty, cooperta. 
A sotelte: Ceruus. 

Le .ij. oonrs. 

Mammenye. 

Vyand Motlegfc. 

Kede. 

Conyng. 

Herons. 

Chykonys endoryd. 

Venyson Rosted. 

I. leche. 

Vn Fryid mete. 

I. paste Cni8tade. 

1 leaf 48 back. 2 A, 



64 I. HARL. 279. THE EARL OF DEVONSHIRE'S WEDDING FEAST. 

Doke. Pyionys. 

Chykony8 Roste. Gullys. 

Pygge in Sawge. Rabettys. 

Venysoun bake. 1 Venysoun Rost*.' 

Le. y. conrs. Doucetys. 

„ , . _, Vn Leche. 8 

Caudel Ferry. 

1 A. vmysoune rostuL 

* A. adds in syrup. 

8 A. adds ( mete,' and also adds Vnfryide mete after. 



[Etto of ftfatl ffiSb. 279.] 



65 

COOKERY BOOK II. 

HARLEIAN MS. 4016, ab. 1450 a.d. 



[This Contents is not in the MS., 

PAGE 

Hare in Wortes 69 

Buttered Wortes 69 

Cabochis 69 

Growelfe fforce 70 

Nombles of Veneson 70 

Venyson in broth 70 

Furmenty with venyson 70 

Bourrey8 70 

MortreuB de Chare 70 

Brawne in confite ....... 71 

Brawne in confite 71 

Blaunche brawne 71 

Browne in egurdouce 71 

Brawne in peuard 71 

Garbage 72 

Pigge or chiken in Sauge ..... 72 

Stwed Beeff .......... 72 

Stwed Mutton 72 

Capons Stwed 72 

Flathonys 73 

Venyson ybake 73 

Frutowrs 73 

Longe Frutowrs 73 

Pety peroantes 74 

Auter peti pernantes 74 

Custarde 74 

Custard lumbard* 74 

Tartusoffflesh 74 

Lese rryes 75 

Auter Tartus 75 

Dariolles 75 

Pies of Parys 75 

Gretepyes 76 

Herbe-blade 76 

Chawdwyu 76 

Pikkyll powr le Mallard 77 

Sauce gamelyne 77 

Sauce sermstele . • 77 

Sauce oylepeuer 77 

Sauce Verte 77 

Sauce Gynger 77 



but is made up from the titles therein.] 



PAQB 

77 



Sauce Sorell 

Sauce galentyne 77 

Swan rested 78 

Crane rosted 78 

Fesaunte rosted 78 

Partrich rosted 78 

Partrich stwed 78 

Heron rosted : 78 

Bytor rosted 79 

Curlewe rosted 79 

Egrete rosted 79 

Brewe rosted 79 

Quayle rosted 79 

Peeok rosted 79 

Sorcell rosted 79 

Plouer 79 

Wodekok 80 

Snyte 80 

Conyng 80 

Conyng in Gravey 80 

Conyng or hen in clene broth ... 80 

Conyng, hen, or Mallard 80 

Gelyn* endobat 80 

Gelyne in broth* 8 

Rabette rosted 8 

Kede rosted . 8 

Venysown rosted 8 

Vele rosted 8 

Chikfarsed 8 

Chike endored 8 

Goce or Capon farced 8 

Pigge ffarced. ........ 82 

Felettes of Porke endored 82 

Felettes in galentyne 82 

Losinge* de chare 82 

Tripe de Mutton 82 

Allowes de Mutton 83 

Browne fryes 83 

Payh purdeuz 83 

Perre 83 

Malasade 83 



66 



CONTENTS OP HARL. 4016. COOKERY BOOK II. 



PAOI 

Blaunde sorre 84 

Hagas de almoudes 84 

Hanoney , . 84 

Blamanger 85 

Buknade 85 

Auter maner buknade ...... 85 

Brest de motton in sauce 85 

Risshewes de Mary 85 

Lethe lory 85 

Tansey 86 

Froyse 86 

Gely 86 

[Guissell] 87 

Peris in Syripp* 87 

Peris in compost 87 

Chare de Wardon* 88 

Mawmene 88 

Longe Wortes de Peson* 89 

Elys in Sorre 89 

Ballok broth 89 

Soppes Dorre 90 

Soppes pour Chamb*rleyn* .... 90 

Muscules in broth 90 

Muscules in Shell* 90 

Mortrewes of Pesyn 90 

Blanche porrey 90 

Caudell ffery 91 

Prenade 91 

Froyte de almoudes 91 

Fried creme de almondes 91 

Creme boiled 92 

Letlardes 92 

Leche lumbard* 92 

Auter leche lumbard 93 

Cryspes 93 

Poterous 93 

Risshewes .93 

Potage de egges 94 

Taylowrs 94 

Malmens bastard 94 

Gyngautrey 94 

Fygey 94 

Chaudewyn* 95 

Rapes 95 

Iusshell 95 

Gele of peson 95 

Caudell 96 

Oyle soppes 96 

Caudell de Almondes 96 

Cheaut de Almondes 96 



FAOB 

Lente ffrutottrs 96 

[Lesenges Fries] 97 

[Risschewes de frute] 97 

[Trayne roste] 97 

Quynces or Wardones in paast ... 97 

Rastons 98 

KTart de ffruyte 98 

[Chewettes] 98 

Lamprey I -bake 98 

Sauce pour lamprey 99 

Lamprey poudred 99 

Stokfissh in sauce 100 

Lamprons in Galentyne 100 

Lamprons ybake 100 

Oystres in grauey 100 

Oystres in cevey 100 

Pike in galentyne 101 

Pikeboyled 101 

Pike in brase 101 

Auter pike in Galentyne 101 

Salmon fressh boiled 102 

Samon roste in Sauce 102 

Trouteboyled 102 

Crabbe or Lopster boiled 102 

Perche boiled 102 

Floundres boiled 102 

Shrympes 103 

Breme or Roche boiled 103 

Breme rost ensauce 103 

Plaise boiled 103 

Ray boiled 103 

Sole, boiled, rost, or fryed .... 103 

Gurnard rosted or boyled . . . . . 103 

Ano)>er . 104 

Menese or loche boiled 104 

Haddok or codlyng 104 

Barbell boyled 104 

Millet boyled 104 

Sturgeon boiled 104 

Sturgeon in broth 104 

Sturgeon pour porpeys 105 

Firmenty with porpeys 105 

Tenche in brase 105 

Another diting of a tenche .... 105 

Turbut boyled 105 

Turbut roste ensauce 1 06 

Tripe de Turbut 106 

Welkes boyled 106 

Milkemete 106 

Chared coneys, or chardwardon . . . 106 



67 



COOKERY BOOK II. 

HARLEIAtf MS. 4016, ab. 1450 a.d. 



1 [T]Ms is the purviaunce made for King* Bichard, being* with >e Duo 
of lanoastre at the Bisshoppes plaoe of Durham at London*, the xxiii 
day of September, the yere of the king* forsaid .xij./ [a.d. 1387.] 



First begynnyng for a-chatry. 

Xiiij. oxen lying in salte. 

IJ. oxen ffreyssh. 

Vi xx - 3 hedes of shepe fressh.. 

Yi**" carcas of shepe fressh. 

Xij. Bores. 

Xiiij. Calvys. 

Cxi. pigges. 

CCC. maribones. 

Of larde and grece, ynogh. 

IIJ. ton of salt veneson. 

IIJ. does of ffressh veneson. 



The pultry. 



L. Swannes. 

CCx. Gees. 

L. capons of hie grece. 

Viii. dussen o)?er capons. 

Lx. dd 8 Hennes. 

CC. coputi Conyngg**. 

IIIJ. Fesauntes. 

Y. Herons and Bitores. 

Vi. kiddes. 

* foL 1. 



Y. disson pullayn for Gely. 
Xij. dd. 3 to roste. 
C. dd. peions. 
Xij* dd. partrych. 
Yiij. dd. Rabettes. 
X. dosen Curie wes. 
Xij. dosen Brewes. 
Xij. Cranes. 
"Wilde fowle ynogfc. 
YJ*** galons melke. 
Xij. galons Creme. 
XL galons of Cruddes. 
II j. hushel) of Appelles. 
Xj. thousand egges. 



f The first course. 

Yeneson with Furmenty. 
A potage called viaundbruse. 
Hedes of Bores. 
Grete Flessfc. 
Swannes rosted. 
Pigges rosted. 
Crustade lumbard in paste. 
And a Sotelte. 
core. * dozens. 



68 COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. FEASTS IN 1387 AND 1443. 



f The seoonde course. 

A potage called Gele. 
A potage de Blandesore. 
Pigges- rosted. 
Cranes* rosted. 
Fesauntes rosted. 
Herons rosted. 
Chekens endored. 
Breme. 
Partes. 
Broke braune. 
Conyngg** rosted. 
And a sotellte. 



f The fhirde course. 

Potage. bruete of Almondes. 
Stwde lumbarde. 
Venysofi rosted. 
Cliekenes rosted. 
Babettes rosted. 
Partricfr rosted. 
Peions rosted. 
Quailes rosted. 
Larkes rosted. 
Payne puff/. 
A Dissfc of Gely. 
Longe Frutowrs. 
And a Sotelte. 



f Atte the stalling of John Stafford, Archibisshopp* of CaunWbtiry, the 
xxj yere of king Harry the vj. [a.d. 1443.] 



Brawne with Mustard. 

Furmenty with Venesoii. 

Mawmeny. 

Fesaunte. 

Swan. 

Capon. 

Carpeis of Veneson. 

Heron sewe. 

Grete breme. 

Leche cremy ryaH. 

Custard ryoti. 

A sotelte. Seint Andrew, sitting on 
an hie Auter of a-state, with" bemes 
of golde ; afore him knelyng, J?e 
Bisshopp* in pontificalibtw ; his 
Croser kneling behinde him, coped. 

% The second course. 
Bruet Mon amy. 
Viaund cypr*. 

1 fol. lb. 



Crane rosted. 

Venesoii rosted. 

Conyng. 

Betor*. 

Partrich. 

Curlewe. 

Graunte carpe. 

Leche Frutow. 

TardriaH. 

A sotelte : J?e Trinite sitting in a son 
of gold, with a crucyfix in his 
honde. Seint Thomas in j>at one 
side, Seint Austin in that o]?er, 
my lorde kneling in pontificalibw 
afor him. behinde him, his croser 
coped with the armes of Rouches- 
tr*. behinde him, in fat o side, a 
blak Monke, prior 2 of Crist** church ; 
in J?at other side, the Abbot of 
Seint Austyns. 
2 fol. 2. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. FEAST IN 1443. RECIPES. 69 



f The thirde course. 
Crerae Vine. 
Gely departed. 
Browes. 

Chekenos boiled. 
Melons ppuH. 
Plouer rosted. 
Babettes. 
Votrellej. 
Bales. 
Quayles. 
Dew doues. 



Blanke singuler leche. 

Frutoure Basyn. 

Quynes bakyn. 

A sotelte. A godhede in a son of 
gold glorified aboue; in the son 
the holy giste voluptable. Seint 
Thomas kneling a- for him, with Je 
poynt of a swerd in his hede, 1 & a 
Mitre there-vppon, crownyng S.T. 
in dextera parte, maria tenens 
mitram ; in sinistra parte, Johannes 
Baptwfo; et in iiij. partibw*, iiij. 
Angeli incensantes. 



Here Beginneth* A Boke of Kokery. 

TTa. . _ , rPake Colys, and stripe hem faire fro the stalkes. Take 
■*• Betus and Borage, auens, 2 Violette, Mai vis, porsle, 
betayfi, pacience, Je white of the lekes, and }>e croppe of \q netle ; parboile, 
presse out the water, hew hem small, And do thereto mele. Take goode 
broth of ffressh beef, or other goode flessh and mary bones ; do it in a potte, 
set on Je fire ; chopp* the hare in peces, And, if Jou wil, wassh hir in J?e same 
broth, and then drawe it thorgh A streynowr with the blode, And Jen put 
aH on the fire. And if she be an olde hare, lete hir* boile weti, or \ ou cast 
in thi wortes ; if she be yonge, cast in aS togidre at ones ; And lete .hem 
boyle til J?ei be ynogh, and ceson hem with salt. And serue hem forth. The 
same wise thou may make wortes of A Gose of a nijt, 8 powdryng of beef, 
or eny other fressh flessh. 

4 Buttered Wortes. % Take al maner of good herbes that thou may gete, 
and do bi ham as is f orsaid ; putte hem oil }e fire with faire water ; put 
Jew-to clarefied buttur a grete quantite. "Whan thei ben boyled ynogh, 
salt hem ; late none otemele come therein. Dise brede smaH in disshes, and 
powra on Je wortes, and s*rue hem forth. 

Cabochis. ^f Take faire Gabochis, pike hem and wassh hem, and parboyle 
1 'honde' crost through, and ' hede ' written after. 2 MS. anens. 8 night * fol. 26, 



70 COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. VENISON DISHES. 

hem ; thefi presse oute the water oft a faire horde, choppe hem, and cast hem 
in a faire potte with goode fressh broth and with Mary-bones, And lette hem 
boyle ; thefi take faire grate brede, and cast thereto, saferofi, 1 salt, and lete 
boyle ynogh, And thefi serue hit forth. 

GrowelL? fforce. f Take GroweH y-made of ffresh beef; And whafi it is y- 
soddefi ynogh, drawe it thorgh a Streynowr into a fair potte ; thefi take lene 
porke, and seth it ; grynde it small in a morter, and temper it with the seid 
broth, and cast togidre, And lete it boyle til hit be ynogh, And cast thereto 
Sapherofi and salt, and s*rue it forth. 

Hombles of Veneson. ^f Take Nombles and knt hem small, whafi they befi 
rawe ; J?efi take fressh broth, water, and wyne, of eche of hem y-lyche moche, 
pouder of pep^r, CaneH, and boyle hem till it be almost ynogh, And thefi 
cast powder ginger thereto, And a lituti vynegw ; salt and cesofi it vpp*, and 
s*rue it forth for a gode potage. 

Venysofi in broth, % Take rybbes of venysofi, and wassh hem faire in 
"Water, And streyfi the "Water thorgh a Streynowr into a faire potte, and cast 
Je Venysoq. thereto, parcely, Sauge, powder of peper, clouej, Maces, Yinegre, 
salt, And late hem boile til j>ei be ynow, & Berne it forth. 

2 Fnrmenty with venysofi. ^f Take faire whete, and kerve it in a morter, 
And vanne a-wey clene the duste, and wassh it in faire water* and lete it boile < 
till hit breke ; thefi do awey the water clene, and caste there-to swete mylke, 
and sette it oner the fire, And lete boile til it be thik ynogh, And caste there-to 
a goode quantite of tryed rawe yolkes of egges, and caste thereto Sapherofi, 
sugur, and salt ; but late it boile no mow thefi, but sette it on fewe coles, lest 
the licoure wax colde. And Jefi take fressh venysofi, and water hit; seth hit 
and bawde hit; And if hit be salt, water hit, sethe hit, and leche hit as hit shaH 
be s*rued forth, and put hit [in a vessel! with feyre wat*r, and buille it] 8 
ayefi ; and as hit boyleth, blowe a-wey the grece, and s*rue it forth with 
ffurmenty, And a litul of J?e broth in the Dissh ati hote with the flessh. 

Bourreys. % Take pipes, hertes, neres, myites, and of the rybbes of Je 
Swyne, or elles take (if thou wilt) Mallard or Goos, and choppe hem small, 
And thefi parboile it in faire water, And take it vp, and pike it clene, And 
putte into a potte, And cast thereto Ale ynogh, Sauge, Salt, And lete boile 
right ynowe, &]?efi s*rue it forth. 

Mortreus de Chare, % Take porke, and seth it ynow ; and take it vppa, 
and bawde hit, and hewe it and grinde it, and in a morter ; And cast thereto 
1 The MS. has here and brede crossed out. a fol. 3. * Added from D. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. DISHES OP BRAWN. 71 

grated brede, and then drawe the same broth" thorgh a streynowr, And temper 
hit with ale, and do al into a potte, and lete boile, and aley hit with yolkes 
of egges, And then lete it boile no more, And caste thereto powder of ginger, 
Salt, And put hit in disshes in maner of Mortrewes, And cast thereto powder 
of ginger, & s*rue it forth. 

Brawne in confite. % Take fressh brawne, and myce * it smaH, and take 
Almondes, and blanche hem, and grinde hem, and drawe hem thorgh a 
straynofir. 

3 Brawne in confite. ^f Take fressh brawne, and seth it ynowe ; paw hit, 
and grinde hit in a morter, and temper it with almond mylke, and draw it 
thorgh a Streynowr into a potte, and cast thereto Sugowr ynowe, and pouder 
of Clowes, and lete boyle ; and take ffloure of Caneti, or powder, a goode 
quantite, and caste thereto. And lete boyle, and caste thereto powder of 
ginger ; And then take it vp oute of the potte, And put in a lynnen clothe 
and presse it ; lete hem boile so long in J?e potte that it be thik, And then take 
hit vpp*, and presse it in the clothe ; And then leche hit faire, but not to 
thyn ; And theii take the ribbes of J?e boor, and al bare, and set hem enlonge 
the leches, And s*rue it forthe .ij. or iij. leches in a dissh. 

Blannche brawne. f Take fressh Brawne, and myce it smaH ; And take 
Almondes, and blaunche hem, and grynde hem thorgh a Streynowr into stuffs 
mylke, And put al into a potte, and sugur, And boyle al togidr* til hit be 
right stuff ; And thqfi take it vp, And cast hit in-to a faire basyfi, And lete 
it stonde ther* til hit be all colde ; And J?en take a knyfe And leche it faire, 
but not to thyn, And ]?efi s*rue hit forthe, a leche. or ij. in a dissh. 

Browne in egurdouce. 3 ^f Take mighti broth of beef or of Capon, or take 
fair* fressh brawne, and seth hit, but not ynow, And then leche hit, And 
cast hit into the broth ; then take hole oynones, pike hem, 4 And cast hem al 
hole thereto ; then take Vynegr* and CaneH, and sette on }e fire, and hete 
hem, and drawe hem ]?orgh a Streynouw, and cast hit there-to. Then take 
clowes, Maces, powder of peper, and cast thereto, and a lituti Sawndres, 
And sette hit ouer \q fyre and lete boyle til \q oynones and the brawne 
ben even sodde, and not to moche ; then take licowr made of brede, vynegre, 
6 and wyn, and seson it vpp*, and caste thereto a litul saferon to coloure hit, 
and salt, And serve it forth. 

Brawne in peuard.* % Take wyn, pouder of Caneti, drawe hit thorgh a 

1 micer, michier, depecer, mettre en pieces. — Hippeau. Gloss. a fol. Zb, 

8 D. calls this " Braun* en peueruade," it is recipe 56 there. 4 D. pile, i.e. peel. 

6 fol. 4. 6 Braune en peuwuade, D. 



72 COOKERY BOOK II. HARI- 4016. GARBAGE, STEWS, ETC. 

Streynour, set hit ouer the fire, lete hit boile, caste there-to Maces, clones, 
powder of Peper ; take smale onyons hole, parboyle hem, caste thereto ; lete 
hem boile togider ; then take Brawne, leche hit, but not to thin ; And if hit 
be saused, let stepe hit in Hote water til hit be tender, then cast hit into }e 
siripe ; take Saundres, Vynegre, and caste there-to, And lete boile al togidre 
til hit be ynowe ; then take powder of ginger, caste thereto ; lete hit not be 
thik ne to thyfi, butte as potagesfrilde be; And serve hit forthe. * ,rjcrrl 

Garbage, ^f Take f aire Garbage, cnikenes hedes, ffete, lyvers, And gysers, and 
wassh hem clene ; caste hem into a faire potte, And caste fressfi brotfi of Beef, 
powder of Peper, CaneH, Clowes, Maces, Parcely and Sauge myced smati ; 
then take brede, stepe hit in Je same brothe, Drawe hit thorgfi a streynowr, 
cast thereto, And lete boyle ynowe; caste there-to ponder ginger, vergeotw, 
salt, And a lituti Saff erofi, And serve hit forthe. 

Pigge or chiken in Sange. % Take a pigge, Draw him, smyte of his hede, 
kutte him in 4g& quarters, boyle him til he be ynow, take him vpp*, and lete 
cole, smyte him in peces ; take an hondefuti. or .ij. of Sange, waesn" hit, grynde 
it in a morter with hard yolkes of egges ; then drawe hit vpp* with goode 
vinegre, but make hit not to thyfi ; then sesofi hit with powder of Peper, 
ginger, and salt; then cowche thi pigge in disshes, and caste J?e siripp* \er- 
vppofi, and seme it forthe. 

Stwed Beeff. % Take faire Ribbes of ffresR beef, And (if thou wilt) roste 
hit Hil hit be nygfc ynowe; then put hit in a faire possenet; caste J^r-to 
pwcely and oynons mynced, reysons of corauns, powder pep*r, canel, clowes, 
saundres, saff erofi, aftid salt ; then caste thereto wyfi and a lituti vynegre ; sette 
a 1yd on Je potte, and lete hit boile sokingly on a faire charcole til hit be 
ynogfr ; j?en lay the fflessfi, in disshes, and the siripp* thera-vppon, And serve 
it forth. 

Stwed Mutton, ^f Take faire Mutton that hath ben roste, or elles Capons, or 
suche of er flessli, and mynce it faire ; put hit into a possenet, or elles bitwefi 
ij. siluer disshes ; caste thereto faire parcely, And oynons smati mynced ; then 
caste there-to wyfi, and a lituti vynegre or vergeous, ponder of pepar, Canel, 
salt and saffron, and lete it stue on J?e faire coles, And J?efi s*rue hit forthe ; 
if he have no wyfie ne vynegre, take Ale, Mustard, and A quantite of vergeous, 
and do J>is in J?e stede of vyne or vinegre. 

Capons Stwed. % Take parcelly, Sauge, Isopp*, Rose Mary, and tyme, and 
breke hit bitwefi thi hondes, and stopp* the Capon there- wit6; colour hym 

1 fol. 4*. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. VENISON, FRITTERS. 73 

with Safferofi, and couche him in a erthefi potte, or of brasse, and ley splentes 
vnderneth" and a! aboujt the sides, that the Capon touche no things of the 
potte ; strawe good herbes in J?e potte, and put there-to a pottel of the best 
wyfi that thou may gete, and none other licowr ; hele * the potte with a close 
led, and stoppe hit aboujt* with dogh" or bater, that no eier come oute ; And 
set hit on j>e faire charcole, and lete it seeth easly and longe till hit be ynowe. 
And if hit be an erthefi potte, Jen set hit on J>e fire whafi j>ou takest hit 
downe, and lete hit not touche J?e grounde for breking ; And whafi J?e hete is 
ouer past, take oute the Capon with a prik ; thefi make a siripp* of wyne, 
Reysons of corance, sugur and safferofi, Andboile hit a lituH; a medel pouder 
of Ginger with a litul of the same wyfi, and do j>ewto ; thefi do awey the fatte 
of the sewe of the Capofi, And do the Sirypp* to \q sewe, and powr* hit on J?e 
capon, and Berne it forth. 

Flathonys. ^ Take mylke, and yolkes of egges, and ale, and drawe hem 
thorgh a straynowr, with white sugur or blak ; And melt faire butter, and put 
thereto salt, and make faire coffyns, and put hem into a Nowne s til Jei be a 
lituH hard ; J?efi take a pile, and a dissh fastned there-ofi, and fiH }e coffyns 
therewith of the seid stuffs and late hem bake a while. And J?en take hem 
oute, and sirue hem forthe, and caste Sugur ynogh on hem. 

Venysofi ybake. ^f Take hanches of Venysofi, parboile it in faire water and 
salt ; J?efi take faire paast, and ley there-ofi )>e Venysofi y-cutte in pieces as jwu 
wolt have it, and cast vnder hit, and aboue hit, powder of ginger, or pep*r 
and salt medyld* togidre, And sette hem in An oven, and lete hem bake til 
* J>ey be ynogh. 

Frutowrs. ^f Take yolkes oi egges, drawe hem thorgh a streynowr, caste 
there-to faire floure, berme and ale ; stere it togidre til hit be thik. Take 
pared appelles, cut hem^hyfi like obleies,* ley hem in J?e batur ; J?efi put hem 
into a ffrying pafi, and fry hem in faire grece or buttur til j>ei befi browne 
yelowe ; thefi put hem in disshes, and strawe Sugur ofi hem ynogh, And 
serue hem forthe. 

t Longe Frutowrs. f Take Mylke And make faire croddes thew-of in maner 
of chese al tendur, and take oute \% way clene ; thefi put hit in a faire boH, 
And take yolkes of egges, and white, and menge flours, and caste thereto a 
good quantite, and drawe hit Jorgh a streynour* into a faire vessel! ; thefi 
put hit in a faire pafi, and fry hit 6 a litull in faire grece, but lete not boyle ; 
thefi take it oute, and ley ofi a faire borde, and kutte it in faire smale peces 

1 cover. a fol. 6. s an oven. 4 sacramental wafers. 6 fol. 5b, 



74 COOKERY BOOK II. HAUL. 4016. CUSTARDS, AND MEAT TARTS. 

as thou list, And putte hem ayefl into the panne til thei he browne ; And 
theii caste Sugur oil hem, and seme hem forth. 

Pety pimantes. % Take faire floure, Sugur, Saflrofi, and salt, and make 
paast J?er-of ; theii make small Coflyns, then cast in eche a coffyii .iij. or iiij 
rawe yolkes of egges hole, and ij. gohettes or iij. of Mary couche Jwin; ]>efi 
take powder of ginger, Sugur, Reysons of Corans, and cast ahove ; J^efi. cover 
the coffyft with a 1yd of J?e same paste ; then hake hem in a oven, or elles 
fry hem in faire grece fressh, And theft serve hit forthe. 

Autor peti pimantes. % Take and make thi Coflyns as hit is a-f or said ; 
theft take rawe yolkes of egges, tryude in sugur, pouder of Gynger, and 
resons of Corans, and mysed mary, hut not to small, And caste aH this into a 
faire boti, and medel all to-gidre, and put hit in coflyns, and hake hem, or fry 
hem as Jwu diddest he Je to]?er. 

Custarde. % Take Yele, and smyte hit in lituti peces, and wassh it clene; 
put hit into a faire potte with faire water, and lete hit boyle togidre ; J?en take 
porcelly, Sauge, Isopp*, Sauerey, wassh hem, hewe hem, And cast hem into 
flessh" whan hit hoileth ; theft take powder of peper, canel, Clowes, Maces, 
Saflrofi, salt, and lete hem boyle togidre, and a goode dele of wyne with aH, 
And whan the flessh) is hoyled, take it vpp* fro J?e broth, And lete the broth 
kele. Whafi hit is colde, streyne yolkes and white of egges thorgh a 
streynowr, and put hem to the broth, so many that the broth be styfl ynowe, 
And make faire cofyns, and couche iij. or iiij. peces of the flessh in J?e Coflyns ; 
then take Dates, prunes, and kutte hem ; cast thereto powder of Gyngir and 
a lituti l Vergeous, and put to the broth, and salt; theft lete the coffyfi and 
the flessh bake a lituti; And ]?en put the broth in the coflyns, And lete 
hem bake till they be ynogh. 

Custard lumbard*. % Take good creme, 3 and yolkes And white of egges, and 
breke hem thereto, and streyne hem ati jwrgh* a straynowr titi hit be so thik 
that it woti bere him self ; And take faire Mary, And Dates, cutte in ij. or iij. 
and prunes, and put hem in faire coflyns of paast ; And theft put }e coffyn in 
aft oven, And lete hem bake titi thei be hard, And theft drawe hem oute, and 
putte the licoura into j>e Coflyns, And put hem into J>e ovefi ayefl, And lete 
hem bake till they be ynogh, but cast sugur and salt in }?i licowr whan ye 
putte hit into J>e coflyns ; And if hit be in lentoft, take creme of Almondes, 
And leve the egges And the Mary. 

Tartus of flesh. ^ Take fressh porke, hew it small, grynde it in a morter, 
1 f ol. 6. 8 The MS. hat her* and ffoiles of parcelly cro$ad through. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. TARTS, AND PARIS PIES. 75 

and take it vpp* into a f aire vesseH ; And take yolkes and white of egges, 
streyii hem Jorgh a streynowr, and temper Je porke there- with ; then take 
pynys, reysons of coraunce, and fry hem in fressh grece, and cast thereto 
pouder of pepar, Ginger*, CaneH, Sugur, Safferofi and salt, and do hit in a 
coffyfi, and plante the coffyn ahove with prunes, and kutte dates, and grete 
reysynges, and smalebirdes, and or ellej hard Yolkes of egges; and if Jou 
take birdes, fry hem a lituti in fresh grece, or thou putte hem into Je Coffyn ; 
then endore hit with yolkes of egges and with saffron, and lete hake hit til 
hit he ynogh, and so s*rue hit forth. 

Lese fryes. 1 ^f Take nessh chese, and pare it clene, and grinde hit in a 
morter smaH, and drawe yolkes and white of egges thorgh a streynowr, and 
cast there-to, and grinde hem togidre; thefl cast thereto Sugur, 2 butter and 
salt, and put al togidre in a coffyn of faire paast, And lete bake ynowe, and 
thefl s*rue it forthe. 

Autor Tartus. % Take faire nessh chese that is buttry, and par hit, grynde 
hit in a mortar ; caste therto faire creme and grinde hit togidre ; temper hit with 
goode mylke, that hit be no thikker Jen rawe creme, and cast thereto a litul 
salt if nede be; And 3 thi chese be salte, caste thereto neu*r a dele ; colour hit 
with saffron ; then make a large coffyn of faire paste, & lete the brinkes be 
rered more Jen an enche of hegh ; lete Je coffyn harden in Je oven ; Jen "take 
it oute, put gobettes of butter in the bothom thereof, And paste the stuffe 
there-to, and caste peces of buttur there-vppon, and sette in Je oven with-oute 
lydde, and lete bake ynowe, and then cast sugur thereon, and s*rue it forth. 
And if Jou wilt, lete him haue a lydde ; but Jen thi stuff most be as thikke 
as Mortrewes. 

Dariolles. % Take wyne and fressh broth, Clowes, Maces, Mary, powder of 
Gynger, and Saffron, And lete al boyle togidre ; And take Creme, (and if hit be 
cloutes, drawe hem thorgh a streynowr,) And yolkes of egges, and medle hem 
togidre, and powre the licoure that Je mary was soden in, thereto ; And theii 
make faire cofyns of fyne paast, and putte the mary there-in, and myced dates 
And streberies, if hit be in time of yere, and sette Je Coffyns in Je ovefl, And 
lete bake a lituti while, And take hem oute, and putte the licowr thereto, And 
lete hem bake ynouh 

Pies of Parys. % Take and smyte faire buttes of porke and buttes of vele 

togidre, and put hit in a faire potte, And putte thereto faire broth, And a 

quantite of "Wyne, And lete all boile togidre til hit be ynogh ; And Jen take 

hit fro the fire, and lete kele [a litel, and cast ther-to raw yolkes of eyren), 

1 D. Leche frye|. * fol. 6*. » If. 



76 COOKERY JBOOK II. HARL. 4016. PIES, HERBEBLADE. 

and pouudre of gyngeuare, sugre and salt, and mynced dates, reysyns of 
corence : make then coffyns of feyre past, and do it ther-ynne, and keuere 
it & lete bake y-nogh\] l 

"Grete pyes. ^f Take faire yonge beef, And suet of a fatte beste, or of Mottofi, 
and hak aH this ofi a borde small ; And caste thereto ponder of pep*r and 
salt ; And whafi it is small hewefi, put hit in a bolle, And medle hem wett ; 
theii make a faire large Cofyfi, and couche som of this stuffur in// Thefi 
take Capons, Hennes, Mallardes, Connyngw, and parboile hem clene ; take 
wodekokkw, teles, grete briddes, and plom hem in a boiling potte ; And 
thefi couche al J?is fowle in \e Coffyfi, And put in euerycfc of hem a quantite 
of pouder of pep^r and salt// Thefi take mary, hards yolkes of egges, Dates 
cutte in ij. peces, reisons of coraunce, prunes, hole clowes, hole maces, CaneH, 
and saffrofi. But first, whan thou hast cowched ail thi foule, ley the reme- 
nawnt of thyne other stuffur of beef a-bought hem, as J?ou thenkest goode ; 
and thefi straw e on hem this : dates, mary, and reysons, &c, And thefi close 
thi Coffyn with a lydde of the same paast, And putte hit in \e oven, And 
late hit bake ynogfr ; but be ware, or thou close hit, that ther* come no saffrofi 
nygh" the brinkes there- of, for thefi hit wol neuer close. 

Herbe-blade. ^f Take buttes of Porke, and smyte hem in peces, and sette 
hit ofi the fire, and seth" it in faire water ; And whafi hit is sodefi y-nogh, take 
it oute, and baude hit, and pike oute \e bones, and hewe it small, and putte 
hit in a faire boll. And take Isop, Sauge, and parcelly a goode quantite ; 
pike hit, and hewe hit small, And put hit in faire vessellez; And take a litul of 
Je broth J?at \e porke was sodefi yfi, and drawe hit Jorgh a streynowr, and 
caste to the erbeblade, and yef hit a boyle ; thefi take oute J?e herbes with a 
Skymowr fro the broth, And cast hem into J?e porke in J?e bolle ; And thefi 
myce faire dates small, And caste hem there-to, And reysofis of coraunce, and 
pynes ; And draw rawe yolkes of egges thorgh a straynowr, and caste thereto 
Sugur, powder of Ginger, salt; colowr hit with a lituH saffrofi; And truH 
hit with s thi honde, al this togidur in j>e bolle ; And J?efi make faire rownde 
cofyns, and put hem in the oven, and hard hem a lituH, and take hem oute 
ayefi, and with a dissh in thi honde, fil hem full of the stuffy and sette hem 
ayefi in the oven al open, And let hem bake ynowe. And thenne serue hit forth. 

Chawdwyn. ^f Take Gysers, lyuers, and hertes of Swannes, or of wilde 
gese ; And if J?e guttes be fatte, slytte hem, and cast hem thereto, And boile 
hem in faire water ; And thefi take hem vppo, And hew hem smale, and caste 
i Added from D. » fol. 7. . MoL 7*. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HAUL. 4016. FICKLE AND SAUCES. 77 

into J>e same broth ayene,but streyne hit Jrorgh a streynowr firste ; And caste 
thereto pouder of peper and of caneti, and salt, and vinegre, And lete boile ; 
And Jen take ]?e blode of J?e swaii, and fressh broth, and brede, and drawe 
hem ]>orgh a streynowr and cast thereto, And lete al boyle togidre ; And 
J?eii take pouder of Gynger, whan hit is al-moost ynough, And caste ' there-to, 
And serue it forthe. 

Pikkytt powr le Mallard, % Take oynons, and hewe hem small, and fry 
hem in fressh* grece, and caste hem into a potte, And fressh broth of beef, 
Wyne, & powder of peper, canel, and dropping of the mallard/ And lete hem 
boile togidur awhile ; And take hit fro J?e fyre, and caste thereto mustard a 
litul, And pouder of ginger, And lete hit boile no more, and salt hit, And 
serue it forthe with Je Mallard. 

Sauce gamelyne. ^f Take faire brede, and kutte it, and take vinegre and 
wyne, & stepe Je brede therein, and drawe hit thorgh a streynowr with 
powder of canel, and drawe hit twies or thries til hit be smoth ; and J?efl take 
pouder of ginger, Sugur, and pouder of cloues, and cast Jerto a litul saffrofi, 
and lete hit be thik ynogh, 2 and thenne serue hit forthe. 

Sauce sermstele. 3 % Take Milke and a litul floure, And caste hit in a potte, 
And lete boile al togidur al thyn ; and whafl hit is wel boyled, take and 
stampe garlek small, and caste there-to pouder of peper, and salt, And then 
serue hit forthe. 

Sauce oylepeuer. 4 % Take faire browne brede, and tost hit, and stepe hit in 
vinegre, and drawe it thorgh a streynotfr, and caste there-to garlek (butte 
stampe it small first) ; And caste thereto pouder of peper, And salte, And 
seme hit forth. 

Sauce Verte. ^f Take p«rcely, Mintes, Betany, Peleter, and grinde hem 
smale ; And take faire brede, and stepe hit in vinegre, and drawe it thorgh a 
streynowr, and cast thereto pouder of peper, salt, and serue it forth. 

Sauce Gynger. % Take faire white brede, and stepe it in vinegre, and 
drawe hit thorgh a streynowr twies or thries, and caste there-to pouder of 
ginger and salte ; but lete it not be to thyn, but som what stiff, And then 
serue hit forthe. 

Sauce Soreti. % Take SoreH, grynde hem small, And drawe hem thorgh a 
Streynoure, and caste there-to Salt, and serue hit forth. 

Sauce galentyne. % Take faire crustes of browne brede stept in vinegre, 
And cast thereto pouder of caneH, and lete hit stepe therewith, til hit be 

1 caste repeated in MS. a fol. 8. 3 D. Sauuce gauncell*. * D. Sauuce alpewe. 



78 COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. ROAST AND STEWED BIRDS. 

browne; J?efi drawe hit thorgh a streynowr ones or twyes, And caste there -to 
ponder of pep*r, And lete hit be som-whatte stonding, And J?en smie hit 
forthe. 

Swan rosted. l % Kutte a Swan in the rove * of the mouthe toward the 
brayne enlonge, and lete him blede, and kepe the blode for chawdewyfi ; or 
elles knytte a knot oil his nek. And so late his nekke breke; then skald him. 
Drawe him and rost him even as thou doest goce in aH poyntes, and serue 
him forth with chawd-wyne. 

Crane rosted. % Lete a Crane blode in the mouthe as thou diddist a Swan ; 
fold vp his legges, kutte of his winges at J?e ioynte next J?e body, drawe 
him, "Wynde the nekke abought the spit ; putte the biH in his brest : his 
sauce is to be my need with pouder of ginger, vynegr*, & Mustard. 

ffesaunte rosted. ^f Lete a ffesaunte blode in J?e mouthe as a crane, And 
lete him blede to dethe ; puH him dry, kutte awey his hede and the necke by 
J?e body, and the legges by the kne, and puttie J?e kneys in at the vente, and 
roste him : his sauce is Sugur and mustard. 

Partrich rosted. ^ Take a partrich, and sle him in J?e nape of the hede 
with a fethur; 3 dight him, larde him, and roste him as ]?ou doest a ffesaunte 
in the same wise, And serue him forth ; then sauce him w*tA wyne, pouder of 
ginger and salt. And sette hit in a dissh on the fuyre til hit boyle ; then cast 
powder ginger, Caneti, theraon, And kutte him so ; or elles ete him with sugur 
and Mustard. 

Partrich stwed. f Take faire mighti broth of beef or of Mutton when hit 
is boyled ynow, and streyh hit thorgh a streynowr, and put hit into an erthen 
potte, And take a good quantite of wyne, as hit were half a pynte, And take 
partrich, cloues, Maces, and hole pep*r, and cast in-to J>e potte, and lete boile 
wel togidre ; And whan the partrich ben ynogh, take the potte from the fuyre, 
and then take faire brede kutte in thyn 4 browes, and couche hem in a faire 
chargowr, and ley the partrich on loft ; And take powder of Ginger, salt, and 
hard yolkes of egges mynced, and caste into the broth, and powre the broth 
vppon the partrich into the chargeo«r, and s*rue it forth, but late hit be 
colored with saffron. 

Heron rosted. ^f Take a Heron ; lete him blode as a crane, And s<?me him 

in al poyntes as a crane, in scalding, drawing, and kuttyng the bone of the 

nekke a-wey, And lete the skyn be on, &c. ; roste him and sause him as )e 

Crane ; breke awey the bone fro the kne to \q fote, And lete the skyn be on. 

1 fol. Sb. 2 roof. s D. settles this stop. * fol. 9. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HAUL. 4016. ROAST PEACOCK, ETC. 79 

Bytor rosted. ^f Take a Bitowr, sle him in the mouthe, skalde him, Berne 
him in att poyntes as J?ou doest a Crane, but lete him haue on his winges 
when he is rosted, And serue him forthe. 

Curlewe rosted. ^f Take a Curlewe, sle him as a Crane, pul him dry, kutte 
of the winges by the body, drawe him, dight him as a Henne, And folde vp 
his legges as a crane ; lete his necke and his hede be on ; take awey the 
nether lippe and throte boti, and put his hede in at his shuldur, and roste 
him as a Crane, and no sauuce but salte. 

Egrete rosted. ^[ Take an Egrete, sle him as a Crane, skalde him and 
drawe him, and kutte his winges, and folde his legges as a crane, and roste 
him, And s^rue him forth ; and no sauce but salte. 

Brewe rosted. ^f Take a Brewe, sle him as Je Curlewe, skalde him, drawe 
him as a hen, breke his legges at J?e kne, and take awey the bone fro the 
kne to J?e f ote, as a heron ; And kutte the winges by the body, and his hede 
by *the body, and put him on a spitte, And bynde his legges as a heron ; ro^te 
him, reyse his legges and his winges as a hero ft, And take no maner sauce 
butte salte. 

J ftuayle rosted. % Take a Quayle, and sle him, And oerue him as thou doest 
a partricfr in all Degre. His Sauce is sauce gamelyne. 

Pecok rosted. % Take a Pecok, breke his necke, and kutte his throte, And 
fle him, J?e skyn and the ffethurs togidre, and the hede still to the skyn of 
the nekke, And kepe the skyn and the ffethurs hole togiders ; drawe him as 
an hen, And kepe \e bone to }>e necke hole, and roste him, And set the bone 
of the necke aboue the broche, as he was wonte to sitte a-lyve, And abowe 
the legges to \q body, as he was wonte to sitte a-lyve ; And whan he is rosted 
ynowe, take him of, And lete him kele ; And J>en wynde the skyn with the 
fethurs and the taile abought the body, And s*rue him forthe as he were 
a-live ; or ellej puH him dry, And roste him, and s*rue him as J?ou doest a 
henne. 

Sorceti rosted. 1f Take a Sorceti or a tele, and breke his necke, and pul him 
dry, And draw him as a chekofi, and kutte off his fete and winges by the 
body and }e nekke, and roste him, and reise his winges and his legges as a 
heron, if he be a Sorceti ; And no sauce but salt. 

Plouer. ^f Take a plouer, and breke his skoti, and pull him dry, And drawe 
him as a chekon, And kutte Je legges and the winges as a henne ; And no 
sauce but salt. 

1 fol. 9*. 



80 COOKERY BOOK IT. HAUL. 4016. DISHES OF CONIES. 

Wodekok. 1f Take a wodecok, and sle him as \q plouer ; pul him dry, or 
elles breke his bakke, And lete the senile be hole ; drawe him, And kutte oi 
his winges by the body, and turne vp the legges as J>ou doest of a crane ; 
pnt his biH thorgh bothe his thighes ; roste him, And reise his legges And 
his winges, as thou doest of aH maner of other clouen fote fowle. 

1 Snyte. — Take a Snyte, and sle him as thou doste a wodecok ; pulle him, 
late his necke be hole, save the wesing ; put the biH in the shulder, and f olde 
j?e legges as a Crane ; roste him, And dight him as the Wodecok. 

Conyng. f Take a Conyng, fle him, And draw him aboue and byneth, And 
parboile him, And larde him, and roste him, And late the hede be on ; And 
vndo him, and sauce him with sauce, ginger, And vergeous, and powder of 
ginger, And thenne serue hit forth. 

Conyng in Oravey. % Take blanched Almondes, grinde hem with wyfl 
And gode broth of befe and Mutton, and draw hit thorgh a Streynour, and 
cast hit into a potte, and lete boile ; and caste there-to pouder of ginger, 
clowes, Maces, and sugur// And thefi take a Conyng, and seth him ynogh in 
goode fressh broth, and chopp* him, And take of the skyn clene, an£ pike 
hem clene And cast hit to the Siripp*, And lete boyle ones, And s*rue forth. 

Conyng or hen in clene 2 broth. % Take a Conyng or a hen, and seth him 
ynowe in good fressh broth, and drawe Je same broth thr[o]gh a Streynotir ; 
And take half a pynte of white wyil, and caste there-to ; And then sette it 
oiier the fire, and then choppy the Conyng or the hen, and take of the Skyfi, 
and pike hem clene, and caste thereto, And lete boile togidre ; And whan 
hit is boiled ynogh, caste there-to powder of ginger, yergeous, and salt also ; 
And thefi thou shall s*rue it forth. 

Conyng, heft, or Mallard. 3 ^fTake Conyng, Hen, or Mallard, and roste 
him al-moste ynowe ; or elles chopp* hem, and fry hem in fressh grece ; 
and fry oynons myced, and cast al togidre into a potte, and caste there-to 
fressh broth and half wyne ; caste thereto Cloues, Maces, powder of Pep*r, 
Canett ; then stepe f aire brede with the same broth and drawe hit thorgh. 
4 a streynowr with vinegre. And whan hit hath wel boiled, caste the licowr 
thereto, and pouder ginger, and vinegre, and ceson hit vpp*, And then thou 
shall serue hit forth. 

Gelyni endobat. % Take a hefi, and roste hir al-moost ynogh, and chop hir i 
small in f aire peces, and caste hem into a potte ; and take fressh broth and 
halff wyn*, and caste there-to Maces, Pepar, Clowes, and caneti ; and stepe 

i foL 10. Snipe. 2 Douce MS. clere. 8 D. adds*» oyle. * fol. 10&. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. STUFT CHICKEN AND GEESE. 81 

faire brede with the same broth and with vinegre, and drawe hit thorgh a 
streynowr ; and whan it hath wel boiled, caste thereto pouder of ginger and 
vinegre, and seson hit vppe and serue it forth. 

Gelyne in broths, ^f Take rawe hennes, chop hem, caste hem into a potte; 
cast to fressh broth "Wyne, pflrcelly, oynons myced, powder of peper, clowes, 
Maces, saffrou», and salt ; then stepe brede with vinegre and J?e same broth, 
and draw hit thorgh a streynowr, and cast it thereto, and lete boyle ynogh ; 
And caste thereto ponder ginger, and sesone hit vp, & serue forth. 

Eabette rosted. % Take a Rabette, and sle him, And drawe him, And lete 
his hede be on), as a Conyng ; roste him as a Conyng, And serue him forth. 

Kede rosted. 1f Take a kydde, and slytte the skyn in J?e throte, And seke 
the veyne, and kut him, and lete him blede to deth ; and fle him, And larde 
him, And trusse his legges in J?e sides, and roste him, And reyse the shuldres 
and legges, and sauce hit with vinegre and salte. 

Venysown rosted. ^f Take faire ffelettes of venesown, and pike awey the 
skyn and J?e bone, and parboile hem, and roste hem on a spitte ; And sauce 
there-to, And serue hit forth. 

Vele rosted. % Take faire brestes of vele, And parboyle hem, And larde 
hem, And 1 roste hem, And then serue hem forth. 

Chik farsed. ^f Take a faire chek, and skald him, and breke the skyn (as 
sone as he is scalded) in the necke behinde, and blowe him, And cast him in 
faire water, and wassh him ; and J?en kutte of J?e hede and nek, and lete J?e 
ffete be on al hole, and draw him clene ; and J?en pike faire parcelly, and 
parboile hit ; And J?en take hard yolkes of eyron, and hewe hem and J?e 
parcelly togidre, and fressh grece, and caste there-to pouder of ginger, peper, 
a litel saffron and salt, And put al in- to J?e Chike, and put hit on a Spitte . 
And thenne late him roste, and serue forth. 

Chike endored. ^f Take a chike, and drawe him, and roste him, And lete 
the fete be on, and take awey the hede ; then make batur of yolkes of 
eyron and floure, and caste there-to pouder of ginger, and peper, saffron and 
salt, and pouder hit faire til hit be rosted ynogh. 

Goce or Capon farced. % Take parciH, Swynes grece, or suet of shepe, and 
parboyle hem in faire water and fressh boyling broth ; And J?en take yolkes 
of eyeron hard y-sodde, and hew hem smale, with the herbes and the salte ,* 
and caste thereto pouder of Ginger, Peper, CaneH, and salte, and Grapes in 
tyme of yere ; And in o]?er tyme, take oynons, and boile hem ; and whan they 

1 fol. 11. 

6 



82 COOKERY BOOK II. HAUL. 4016. PORK LOZENGES, TRIPE. 

befi yboiled ynowe with J>e herbes and with }e suet, al J>es togidre, J?efi put 
all in J?e goos, or in J?e Capon; And thefi late him roste ynogh. 

Pigge ffarced. % Take rawe egges, and drawe hem Jorgh a streynoeir, And 
Jen grate faire brede ; And take saffron, salt, pouder ginger, And suet of 
Shepe, And do medle al togidre into a fair* vesseH, and put hit in \e pigge 
wombe Whafi he is ofl J?e brocche, And Jefl sowe the hole togidre ; or take 
a prik, and prik him togidur, And lete him roste. 

1 ffelettes of Porke endored. f Take ffelettes of porke, and roste hem faire, 
And endore hem with J?e same batur as \o\x doest a cheke as he turneth 
aboute the spitte, And s*rue hiw forth. 

ffelettes in galentyne. ^f Take faire porke of Je fore quarter, and take of 
the skyn, and put J?e pork on a faire spitte, and roste it half ynogh ; and take 
hit of, and smyte hit in peces, and cast hit in a faire potte ; and ]?en take 
oynons, and shred and pul hem, not to small, and fry hem in a pan with faire 
grece, And then caste hem to \q porke into Je potte ; And then take good 
broth of beef or Motton, and cast thereto, and set hit on \e fire, and caste 
to pouder of Pep*r, Canel, Cloues & Maces, and lete boile wel togidur ; 
and J?efi take faire brede and vinegr*, and stepe the brede with a lituH of J?e 
same broth, and streyne hit thorgh a streynowr, and blode with all ; or elles 
take Saundres and colour hit therewith, and late hem boile togidur, and 
cast thereto Saffron and salt, and smie hit forth. 

Losinge* de chare. ^fTake faire buttes of porke, and hewe hem, and 
grynde hem, and caste there-to yolkes of eyreil rawe, and take it vpp* into 
a faire vessel! ; and take reysons of Corance, and myced dates, and pouder 
ginger, pep*r, saffron, and sugur, and medle al this to-gidre ; and make faire 
paast of sugwr, saffron, and salte, and temper therein; And make thereof ij. 
faire cakes, and ley the stuff therein al abrode oil J?e cakes aH flatte. And 
J? en take anojer Cake, and ley him al abrode ther*ofi, and J?en kutte Je Cakes 
thorgh with a knyf e, in maner of losing** ; And then make fair* bater of rawe 
yolkes of eron, sugur and salt, and close J?e sides of }>e losinges therewith, 
and then fry hem in fressh grece ynow, And so serue hem forthe. 

Tripe de Mutton, ^[ Take a panche of a shepe, and make it clene, and 
caste hit in a potte * of boyling water, and skym* hit clene, and gader al awey 
the grece, and lete hem boile til J?ei be al tendur ; then take hem vpp* on a 
faire borde, and kutte hem in smale peces of ij peny brede, and caste hem yfi 
an erthefi potte with strong* broth of bef or Mutton; take ffoyles of parcelly, 
1 fol. 11*. i fol. 12. 



(COOKERY BOOK II. HARL, 4016. FRIED BREAD, ETC. 83 

and hewe hem smaH, and cast hem to, And lete boyle togidre til they ben 
tendur/ And Jefi take pouder of ginger, and a quantite of vergeons, and take 
saffron and salt and caste there-to, and lete hem boile togidre til Jey be ynogh. 

Allowes de Mutton. % Take faire Mutton of the Buttes, and kutte hit in 
Je maner of stekes ; And Jen take faire rawe parcelly, and oynons shred 
smale, yolkes of eron sodden hard, and mary or suet ; hewe all Jes smale 
togidre, and then caste thereto pouder of ginger, and saffron, and stere hem 
togidre with thi honde, and ley hem vpp^-on Je stekes al abrode ; and cast 
there-to salt, and rolle hem togidre, and put hem on a spitte, and roste hem 
till Jei be ynogh. 

Browne fryes. 1 ^f Take browne brede, and kut hit thyn ; And thefi take 
yolkes of eyren, and som with 8 of the white ; and take meyned floure, and 
drawe the eirefi and the floure thorgh a streynowr ; and take sugur a gode 
qt&mtite, and a litul saffron and salt, And cast thereto : and take a faire 
panne with fressh grece; And whafi Je greceishote, take downe and putte it 
in Je batur, and turne hit wel therein, and Jen put hit in Je pan with the 
grece, And lete hem fry togidre a lituH while ; And then take hem vpp, and 
caste sugur thereon, and so s*rue hit hote. 

Payn purdeuz. % Take faire yolkes of eyren, and try hem fro the white, 
and drawe hem Jorgh a streynowr; and then take salte, and caste thereto; 
And then take manged brede s or paynman, and kutte hit in leches; and Jen 
take faire buttur, and clarefy hit, or elles take fressh grece and put hit yn) 4 a 
faire pan, and make hit hote; And then wete Je brede well there in Je yolkes 
of eyren, and then ley hit on the batur in Je pan, whan Je buttur is al hote ; 
And then whan hit is fried ynowe, take sugur ynowe, and caste there-to 
whafi hit is in Je dissh, And so s^rue hit forth. 

Perre. ^ Take grene pesyn, and boile hem in a potte ; And whan they ben 
y-broke, drawe the broth a good quantite Jorgh a streynowr into a potte, And 
sitte hit on the fire ; and take oynons and p^rcelly, and hewe hem small 
togidre, And caste hem thereto ; And take pouder of Caneti and pep^r, and 
caste thereto, and lete boile ; And take vynegwr and pouder of ginger, and 
caste thereto ; And then take Saffron and salte, a lituti quantite, and caste 
thereto ; And take faire peces of paynmain, or elles of such tendur brede, and 
kutte hit yn fere mosselles, and caste there-to; And Jen serue hit so forth. 

Malasade. 5 % Take yolkes and white [of] eiren togidre, And drawe hem 

1 The recipe on p. 43 makes Brawn of this dish. 

2 Some of the white therewith. See p. 43, Recipe xlv. 

3 Douce MS. maynche brede. Manchet. 

4 fol. 12*. 6 So in Douce MS. ; Malafade in Harl. 



84 COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. HAOAS DE ALMONDES. 

thorgh a streynoure ; and J>efi take a litul butter, and caste hit in a fair* frying 
panne ; And whafi the butter is hote, take }e eirefi that befi y-drawe, and caste 
there- to. And j>efi take a Saucer, and gadur the eyreil togidre in the panne, 
in the brede of a pewtre dissh; And thefi couche faire [pecys] 1 of brede 
downward in J>e pafi; and take it vp oute of the pafi, And caste faire 
white Sugar thereto, and sfrue it forth. And to* etwry malesade, take the 
mowntayne 3 of xij. eyrefi And mo. , 

Blaunde sorre. % Take almondes, and blanche hem, and stampe hem in a 
mortar, and temper hem with fressh lene broth of a Capoil, or beef, and wyne ; 
And if hit be in lentofi or in a fissh day, take faire broth of fressh fissh and 
wyne, And boyle hem to-gidre a good while, and take hit vpp* in a faire 
lynnefi cloth that is clene wasshen, and J>e water y-Wronge oute thereof; 
And drawe vnder the cloth, with a ladeti, al the water that ye may, even as 
ye 4 make colde creme ; and then take it oute of the clothe, and cast hit in a 
fair* potte, and lete boile ; and then take brawne of a capon and tese hit small, 
and bray hit in a morter/ (or elles in a fissh day, take a codlyng or a haddok), 
and temper hit with almond melke, and cast sugur ynogh thereto ; and then 
caste hit in the potte, And lete hit boile togidur a goode while ; and Jen take 
hit oute of the potte al hote, and dresse hit into a dissh as ye doeth a colde 
creme ; And sette ther-ofi rede Anneys in confite, and serue hit forth ; or elles 
take faire almondes yblanched, & set Jeron/ 

Hagas de almondes. t Take faire yolkes of eyrefi, and the White, and 
drawe hem thorgh a Streynowr, and take faire parcelly, and porboyle hit in a 
potte, & parboylingg* broje; And thefi take yolkes of yrefi, sodde hard, and 
hewe the yolkes and the parcely small togidre; And [take] 5 sugur, pouder of 
Gyng*r, and salte, & cast to yolkes and parcelly ; And take mary, and put hit 
in a streynowr, And lete hong* yfi to J>e boyling potte, and parboile ; and take 
hit vpp*, and lette hit kele, And kutte hit then in smale peces ; And thefi take 
the drawefi eyrefi, and putte hem in a pafi al a-brode, (And vnneth eny grece 
in Je pafi,) and couche the yolkes and the parcelly there-ofi in ]?e pafi. And 
thefi couche the peces of Je mary thereon ; And thefi f olde vp J>e kake bynetti 
eu^ry corner, to eche corner foure square al flatte, And turne hit ofi the pari ; 
And lete hit lye awhile, And thefi take it vp, and serue hit forth. 

Hanoney. ^f Take eyrefi, and drawe the yolkes and white thorgfi a 

1 Added from Douce MS. : Harl. MS. reads faire of a brede. 

2 MS. do. MS. has malesade here, but Malafade in the heading. 8 amount, number. 
4 fol. 13. 6 Added from Douce MS. • Douce MS. : Harl. MS. hold. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. BLAMANGER, BUKNADE. 85 

streynowr ; And take oynons, And Shrede hem smaH ; And take f aire butter or 
grece, and vnneth ouere-couer the pafl therewith ; And fry the oynons togidre; 
then late hem fry to-gidre a lite while ; And take hem vppe, And serue hem 
forthe so, al to-broke yn a dissh. 

Blamanger. ^f Take faire Almondes, and blanche hem, And grynde hem 
with sugotfr 1 water into faire mylke ; and take ryse, and seth. And whan 
they beth wel y-sodde, take hem vppe, and caste hem to the almondes mylke, 
and lete hem boile togidre til thei be thikk ; And then take the brawne of a 
Capon, and tese hit small, And caste thereto ; and then take Sugur and salt, 
and caste thereto, and serue hit forth in maner of mortrewes. 

Buknade. ^f Take veel, keed, or hen, and boyle hem in faire water or elles 
in good fressh broth, and smyte hem in peces, and pike hem clene ; And drawe 
the same broth thorgh a streynowr, And castthere-to parcelly, Isoppe, Sauge, 
Maces and clowes, And lete boyle til }e flessh be ynogh ; and J>efi set hit fro 
the fire, and aley hit vp with rawe yolkes of eyren, and caste thereto pouder 
ginger, and vergeous, & a litel saffron and salte, and ceson hit vppe and serue 
it forth. 

Auter maner buknade. % Take rawe Almondes, and blanche hem, and 
grynde hem, and draw hem thorgh a streynowr with fressh. broth and wyno 
into good stiff mylke ; And thefl take veel, kede, or hen, and parboile hem 
in fressh broth, and pike hem clene, and cast him thereto ; take Clowes, 
maces, and herbes, and lete hem boile ynowe ; And thefl caste a litutt Sugur, 
pouder ginger, and salt, and serue him forth. 

Brest de motton in sauce. % Take faire brestes of Mutton rosted, and 
chopp hem ; And thefl take Vergeous, and chaaf hit in a Yesseti ouer the fire, 
and caste there-to powder ginger ; and thefl caste the chopped brest in a dissh, 
And caste the sauce al hote there-ofi, And serue hit forth. 

Risshewes de Mary, ^f Take faire floure, and rawe yolkes of eyren, sugur, 
salt, powder ginger, and saffron, and make faire Cakes. And thefl take Mary, 
Sugur, powder ginger, and ley hit ofl the kake, and f olde him togidre ; And 
thjin kutte hit in maner of risshewes, And fry hit in fressh grece, And thefl 
serue hit forth. 

Lethe 3 lory, % Take mylke, and caste it in a potte, And caste there-to salt 

and saffron ; and J?efi take and hewe faire buttes of Calvis or porke al smalle 

and caste thereto. And take the white and yolkes of eyrefi, And drawe hem 

thorgh a streynowr ; And whafi the licowr is at J>e boy ling, caste there-to the 

» fol. 133. * fol. 14. s Lait. 



86 COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. TANSEY, FROYSE, GELY. 

eyren, And a lituH Ale, And styrre till hit crudde ; And if thou wilt haue hit 
farced, take mylke, and make hit scalding hote, And cast there-to rawe yolkes 
of eyren, sugur, powder ginger, Peper, clowes, and maces, And lete hit not 
fully boyle ; And then take a faire lynnen clothe, and presse the cruddes 
there-ofi, and then leche it ; And ley Je leches .ij. or iij. in a dissfc, And cast 
saffron there-oil in the dissli, And so seme hit forth" al hote. 

Tansey. ^f Take faire Tansey, and grinde it in a morter ; And take eyreii, 
yolkes and white, And drawe hem thorgfc a streynowr, and streyn* also Je 
Iuse of J?e Tansey thorgh a streynotir ; and medle the egges and the Iuse 
togidre ; And take faire grece, and cast hit in a pafi, and sette ouer Je fyre til 
hit mylte ; and caste Je stuffe thereon, and gader hit togidre with a sawcer or 
a dissfr, as Jou wilt haue hit more or lasse ; And turne hit in Je panne onys 
or twies, And so Berne it forth hote, yleched. 

Froyse. % Take egges, and drawe the yolkes and the white thorgh a 
Streynowr ; And then take faire beef or veel, and seth hit til hit he ynogh ; and 
Jen hewe hit colde or hote, al smaH, And medle the rawe beef or veel and 
the egges togidre, and caste there-to saffron, salt, And powder of pepar, And 
medle al togidre. And then take a fryng pan, and sette ouer the fire, and 
caste there-in fressh grece, and make hit hote ; And then cast the stuff there-ofi 
and stirre hit well in the pan till hit come togidre ; And whan hit is com weH 
togidre, caste there-on in Je pan a x dissfc, and presse hit togidre, And turne 
hit, if hit be nede, fore clevyng in the turnyng, caste into Je pan more grece, 
but twrne hit ones or ij ; 3 And take hit vpp* fro the fire, And leche it in faire 
peces, & s*rue forth. 

Gely. ^f Take Calues fete, and scalde hem faire, and ley hem in faire water, 
and late hem wex white ; Also take hojos of fele, 3 and ley hem in faire water 
fore to soke oute Je blode ; And Jen take hem oute of Je water, and ley hem 
in a faire lynnen clothe, and lete the water ren oute ; And Jen take a faire 
scoured potte, and put al thes hops and calues fete \erm ; And Jen take good 
white wyn, that woti hold colloure, or elles fyne claret wyne, and caste there- 
to a porcion), and none ojer licoure, that the flessfc be ouer-wose 4 with al ; and 
sette hit oner the fire, and boile hit, and skem hit clene. Whan hit is boylled 
tewder ynowe, take rpp* the flessh in a faire bolle, And save wel Je licoure ; 
and loke that Jou have faire sides of pigges, And faire smale chekynes 
scalded, and drawe hem, ([and the] legges and [the fete] on), 8 and wassfi 

1 fol. 14b. * twies, twice. s Douce MS. ; houghys of veel. 

4 Douce MS. reads, nere wese tvith-alle. 

6 Thus Douce MS.: Harh MS. hem legges and sette on. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016, GUIS8ELL, STEWED PEARS. 87 

faire, and caste hem in ]>e same first broth, And set hit ayefi ouer the fire, 
and skym hit clene, and lete a man euer*-more kepe hit, and blow of ]?e 
grauey ; And in case that Je licoar waste awey, cast more of the same wyne 
Jere-to ; And put ]i honde there-to, And, if thi honde be clawmy, Hit is a 
eigne )?at it is gode ; and lete not }e flessli be so moche ysod that hit may ben? 
no kuttyng ; And then take hit vpp*, and ley hit on a faire clothe, and set 
oute the licoure fro the fire ; And put a fewe coles vnder }>e vesseR J?at J?e 
lycour* is yn ; and take salt, pouder of peper, and good quantite of saffron, 
(that hit haue faire Ambur colour,) and a good quantite of vinegre ; And 
loke that hit be sauery of the salt and of the vinegre, & faire of colour of 
Baffron ; And put hit in a faire lynen clothe, And sette vnder-neth a faire 
dissh, and late hit ren thorgh the cloth so oft ]?at hit ren clene 1 ; And if 
Jou seest that hit hath to lituH of the 2 vinegre, or salt, or saffron, caste 
thereto more, after thi discrecion); And then kut faire Bidde ribbes of }>e 
sides of pigges, and ley hem on a chargeowr or on a dissR, 2 And set hit faire 
on a colde place, and powre ]?e gely J?*ron ; And then take faire blanched 
almondes, and caste anone thereon er hit kele, and foilles of tried pared 
ginger ; and lete stonde to kele. 

[GuisseH 3 ]. 4 ^ Take faire capon brotfc, or of beef, And sette hit ouer the 
fire, and caste \erio myced sauge, pwcelly and saffron, And lete boile; 
And streyn the white and \q yolke of egges thorgR a streynowr, and caste 
there-to faire grated brede, and medle hit togidre with thi honde, And 
caste the stuff to the broth into J?e pan ; And stirr* it faire and softe til hit 
come togidre, and crudded ; And Jen sirue it forth hote. 

Peris in Syripp*. ^f Take Wardons, and cast hem in a faire potte, And 
boile hem til ]?ei ben tendre ; and take hem vpp*, and pare hem in ij. or in iij. 
And take powder of Canell, a good quantite, and cast hit in good red wyne, 
And cast sugwr thereto, and put hit in an erthen potte, And lete boile ; And 
then cast the peris thereto, And late hem boile togidre awhile ; take powder 
of ginger, And a liteH saffron to colloure hit with, And loke that hit be 
poynante/ And also Doucet/ 

Peris in compost. % Take Wyne, caneH, And a grete dele of white Sugur, 
And sette hit ouer the fire, And hete hit but a lituH, and nojt boyle ; And 

1 Douce MS. elere. 

2 Douce MS. adds [& pull the loynes of the chekyu* iche from oth*re, and take awey the 
skyn, and pull* hem [in] qwartres, and ley a quarter of a chikyne and a ribbe of the pygge 
to-gedrys on a dissh.] 

s Taken from Douce MS. * fol. 15. 



88 COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. CHARB DE WARDONE, MAWMENE. 

drawe hit thorgll a streynowr ; And then take l f aire dates, and y-take oute 
the stones, and leche hem in faire gohettes al thyn, and cast there-to ; And 
then take pere Wardones, and pare hem, And seth hem, And leche hem in 
faire gohettes, and pike oute the core, and cast hem to the Syrypp* ; And take 
a litnH Saundres, and caste there-to in the hoylyng, And loke that hit stonde 
well, with Gynger, Sugur, And weH aley hit with caneH, and cast [salt] * 
thereto, and lete hoyle ; And then caste it oute in a treyn 8 vesseS, And lete 
kele ; And then pare clene rasinges 4 of ginger, & temper hem ij. or iij. daies, 
in wyne, And after, ley hem in clarefied hony colde, aH a day or a night ; 
And Jen take the rasons 4 oute of the hony, And caste hem to the peres in 
composte ; And then seme hit forth with sirippe, all colde, And nought hote. 

Chare de Wardone. ^ Take peer Wardons, and seth hem in wine or water ; 
And then take hem vppe, and grinde hem in a morter, and drawe hem thorgh 
a streynoure with the licowr ; 5 And put hem in a potte with Sugur, or ellej 
with clarefiede hony and caneH ynowe, And lete hem hoile ; And then take 
hit from the fire, And lete kele, and caste there-to rawe yolkes of eyren, til hit 
he thik, and caste thereto powder of ginger ynowe ; And serue hit forth in 
maner of Ryse. And if hit he in lenton tyme, leve the yolkes of eyren, And 
lete the remnatmt hoyle so longe, til it he so thikk as though hit were y- 
tempered with yolkes of eyren, in maner as A man sethe}> charge de quyns ; 
And then serue hit forth iw maner of Kys. 

Mawmene. ^f Take vernage, or oJ?er stronger wyne of the hest that a man 
may finde, and put hit in a potte, and cast thereto a gode qwontite of powder 
CaneH, And sette hit ouer the fire, And yif hit a hete ; And then wring oute 
softe thorgh a streynowr, that Je draff go not oute, And put in a faire potte ; 
take and pike newe faire pynes, And wassh hem clene in wyne, And caste 
of hem a grete qwontite Jew-to ; And take white sugur ynowe, as moche as 
thi licowr is, And cast there-to ; and take conf eccions or charge 8 de quyns, a 
goode qturatite, and cast thereto; and drawe a few saundres with stronge 
wyne thorgh a Streynowr, and cast there to ; And put al in a potte ; And cast 
there-to a good quantite of Clowes, and sette hit ouer the fire, & gif hit a 
hoyling ; And take Almondes, 7 and drawe hem with migfrti wyne thorgh a 
streynour ; And at the first hoiling, 9 a-ley hit vp, & yeve 8 hit a hoyle ; and 'ley 
hit vp with ale, and gif hit a hoyle, and sette hit fro the fire ; and caste 

1 Douce MS. » Douce MS. 8 fol. 153. MS. repeats « yesseUV treyn* is treen, wooden. 

* shavings, parings. • Douce MS. with-out my lieour. 

• ? MS. ; for chare. 7 D. amy den*. • fol. 16. •-• D. omits from aAey . . . and. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. EELS, BALLOK BROTH. 89 

thereto tesid brawne of Fesaunte, partrich, or capon, a good quantite, and 
ceson hit vpp* with ponder of ginger ynogh, and a lituH saffron and salt ; 
And if hit be strong*, , aley hit with vinegr* of 2 swete wyfi, and dresse hit 
' flatte with the bak of a Saucer or A ladeti ; And as thou dressest hit with 
the saucer in vinegw 8 or mighty wyne,*wete the saucer or ladeti fore cleving, 
[and loke] 4 that hit haue sugur right ynogh, And serve hit forth. 

Longe Wortes de Peson*. ^f Take grene pesyfi, and wassh hem clene, And 
cast hem in a potte, and boyle hem til they breke ; and then take hem vpp* 
fro the fire, .and putte hem in the broth in an other vessel! ; And lete hem 
kele ; And drawe hem thorgh a Streynowr into a faire potte. And then take 
oynones in ij. or iij. peces ; And take hole wortes, and boyle hem in fayre 
water ; And then take hem vpp*, And ley hem on the faire horde, And kutte 
hem in .iij. or in .iiij. peces ; And caste hem and the oynons into \at potte 
with the drawen pesefi, and late hem boile togidre til they be ati tendur, 
And then take faire oile and fray, or elle; f ressh broth of somd maner fissh, 
(if Jou maist, oyle a quantite), 5 And caste thereto saffron, and salt a quantite. 
And lete hem boyle wel togidre til they ben ynogh; and stere hem weti 
euarmore, And s*rue hem forthe. 

Elys in Sorre. % Take eles, and fie hem, and chopp* hem in faire colpons, 
And wassh hem clene, and putte hem in a faire potte ; and then take parcelly, 
oynons, and shrede togidre to the eles ; And theft take pouder of pep*r, & fl 
broth of fissh, and set hit ouer the fire, and lete hem boyle togidre ; And Jen 
take a lof e of brede, and alay the brede in the }e same broth, And drawe hit 
thorgh a streynowr; And whan the eles ben almoost y-sodde ynowe, caste 
there-to ; 7 And lete hem boile togidre ; and take hem vp fro Je fire, and cast 
J*r-to salte, vinegre, And serve hit forth. 

8 Ballok broth. ^ Take elys, and fie hem, and kutte hem in colpons, and 
caBte hem into a potte with faire water/ and theft take porcelly, and oynons, 
and shrede hem, not to smale ; And take Clowes, Maces, pouder of Pepir, 
pouder of Caneti, And a gode porciofi of wyne, and cast thereto, And lete 
hem boyle ; And whan \e eles beth wel y-boiled, take faire stokfissh, and do 

1 Douce MS. to stondyng. 2 Douce MS. vernage or. 

3 Douoe MS. vernage. * Added from Douce MS. 

5 Douce MS. reads here : other elles fressh broth of some maner of fressh fissbe (yffe thou 
haye none oile) a quantite. 

8 Douce MS. adds : canelk, & clowes and maces, & cast ther-to, and take fressh, between 
& and broth. 

7 Douce MS. adds : and alay hit ther-wttA, & cast wyne ther-to and lete hem buille to- 
gederys : & then take hem vppe fro the fyre and cast ther-to wyne, &c. B fol. 16b. 



90 COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. SOPS, MUSCLES, MORTREWES. 

a-wey Je skyfi, and caste thereto, And lete boyle. And whan the eles ben 
weti y-boyled, take faire berme, and put J>*rto, And lete boyle awhile ; and 
}en take Saffron and salt, and a litel vinegre, and cast thereto ; And lete 
Berue hit forthe fore gode potage. 

Soppes Dorre. % Take rawe Almondes, And grynde hem in A morter, And 
temper hem with wyfi and drawe hem thorgh a streynowr ; And lete hem 
boyle, And cast there-to Saffron, Sugur, and salt ; And theft take a paynmath, 
And kut him and tost him, And wete him in wyne, And ley hem in a dissh, 
and caste the sirypp* thereon, and make a dreggy l of pouder ginger, sugur, 
CaneH, Clowes, and maces, And cast thereon ; And whafi hit is I-Dressed, 
seme it forth fore a good potage. 

Soppes powr Chambirleyn*. f Take wyne, Caneti, powder ginger, sugur/ 
of eche a porcion ; And cast all in a Streynowr, And honge hit on a pyn, And 
late hit ren thorgh a Btreynour twies or thries, til hit reft clere ; And then 
take paynmath, And kutte hit in a maner of Browes, And tost hit, And ley 
hit in a dissfr, and caste blanche pouder there-oil ynogh ; And then cast the 
same licowr vppon }e Soppes, and serue hit forthe fore a good potage. 

Muscules in broth, % TakeMuscules, And sith* hem, And pike hem oute 
of the sheti ; And drawe the broth, thorgh a streynowr into a faire vesseH, 
And sette hit oft the fire ; And then take faire brede, and stepe hit with J?e 
same 3 broth, and draw hit thorgh. a streynowr, And cast in-to a potte with j>e 
sewe ; and menge 4 oynons, wyfi, and pouder pep*r, and lete boyle ; & cast 
there-to the Musculis and pouder ginger, and saffron, and salte; And then 
serue ye hit forthe. 

Muscules in Shell*, ^[ Take and pike faire musculis, And cast hem in a 
potte ; and caste hem to, myced oynons, And a good quantite of pep*r and 
wyne, And a lite vynegre ; And assone as. thei bigynneth to gape, take hem 
from \e fire, and serue hit forthe with the same broth in a dissh. al hote. 

Mortrewes of Pesyfi. % Take a Gurnard, or elles a Codling, (the lyuer And 
\q Spawne wttA-in him), And seth him ynowe in faire water ; and pike oute 
the bones, and grinde the fissh in a morter, and temper hit with almond 
mylke, and caste-to grated brede ; and Jen take hit vpp*, and put hit in a 
faire potte, and lete boyle ; And caste thereto sugur, Safferon, and salte ; and 
serue hit in a dissh in maner of mortrewes of flessh, And caste powder of 
Ginger there- on. 

Blanche porrey. % Take blanche almondes, And grinde hem, and drawe 

1 dredge. Douce MS. dragge. 2 seethe, boil. 8 fol. 17. 

4 Douce MS. mynced ; see next recipe. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. PRENADE, ALMOND-CREAM. 91 

hem with sugwr water thorgh a streynowr into a good stuff mylke into a 
potte ; and J?en take \q white of lekes, and hew hem small, and grynde hem 
in a morter with" brede ; and Jen cast al to ]?e mylke into ]?e potte, and caste 
fyerto sugur and salt, and lete boyle ; And setfr" feyre poudrid eles in faire 
water ynowe, and broile hem oft a gredren ; and kut hem in faire longe peces, 
and ley two or thre in a dissfr togidre as ye do venesofi with ffurmenty, 
And s*rue it forthe. 

CaudeH fiery, ^f Take rawe yolkes of eyreil and trie hem, and bake hem ; 
and take good wyne, and warme hit ouer the fire in a potte, And cast there- 
to the yolkes, and stere hit well, butte lete hit not boyle til hit thikke ; 1 and 
theft caste there-to sugur and salt, and s^rue hit forth" as mortrewes. 

Prenade. 2 — Take wyll, and put hit in a potte, and clarefied honey, 
sawndres, ponder of pep*r, Canel, Clowes, Maces, Saffron, pynes, myced dates, 
& reysons, And cast thereto a litul vinegre, and sette hit ouer the fire, and 
lete hit boyle ; and setfr figges in wyn and grynde hem, and draw hem 
thorgh a streynotir, and cast thereto, and let boile al togidre. And J?en take 
floure, saffron, sugur, and faire water, and make fair* kakes, and late hem be 
thyft ynogfr ; And Jefi kutte hem like losing** ; And J>efi caste hem in faire 
oyle, and fry hem a litul while ; And then take hem vp oute of the pan, and 
caste hem to }e wesseR with the siripp*, altogidre, in a dissh ; And therefore 
thi sirrip«? most be rennyng ynow, and nojt to stiff ; and so Berne it forth fore 
a good potage, in faire disshes all bote. 

Froyte de almondes. 3 ^f Take blak sugur and colde water, and caste the 
sugur and }e water in a potte ; and lete hem boile togidre, and salt, and skeme 
hem clene, and let hit kele ; And Jefi take Almondes, and Tranche hem clene, 
and stampe hem in a morter al smal, and drawe hem thik ynowe thorgh a 
streynowr with sugur water, into a faire vesseH. And if hit so be )?at the 
mylke be not swete, take white sugur and cast thereto ; And s*rue hit forth in 
maner of potage, And namly in lentoft tyme. 

Fried creme de almondes. % Take Almondes, and blanche hem, and 
wassfc hem in faire water, and bray hem small in a morter with faire water ; 
And theft take hem and }e water togidre som-what thik, and drawe hem 
jwrgh a streynowr into a faire potte, And set hem ouer the fire, and lete hem 
boyle ones ; And Jefi take hem downe, and cast thereto Salte, and lete stonde 
a forlonge wey or .ij. And cast a lituH vinegre }erto ; And J?efi cast hit oft a 
faire lynnefi cloth that 4 is faire wassh, and Je water y-wronge oute there-of ; 
1 fol. 17*. 2 Called Brewu in D. 8 Douce MS. Froydelet dalmandet. * fol. 18. 



92 COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. BOILD CREME, LETLARDES. 

and cast hit ati abrode with the laduft, and lete men hold the cloth al abrode ; 
and Jen take a laditt, and draw vndur Je cloth, and draw awey Je water aft 
that a man may. And Jen gadur al Je creme togidur in Je clothe ; And Jefi 
take Je cloth with the creme, and hange hit vppofi. a pyn, and lete Je water 
dropp* oute two or thre houres or more ; And then take hit of Je cloth, and 
putte hit in a boH of tre, And caste Sugttr ynogh Jereto and a litul salt. And 
if hit wex to thik, take swete wyne, and temper hit with ale ; And Jen take 
reysons of coraunce, clene y-wassh, and put hem there-in, that fey be not 
seyn ; And whan hit is dressed in maner of mortrewes, take rede anneys in 
confite, or elles levis of Burage, 1 and set Jer*-on in a dissh. 

Creme boiled* % Take mylke, and boile hit ; And Jen take yolkes of eyreft, 
and try hem fro the white, and drawe hem thorgh a streynowr, and cast hem 
into Je mylke ; and then sette hit on Je fire, and hete hit hote, and lete not 
boyle ; and stirre it wel til hit be som-what thik ; And caste thereto sugar 
and salte ; and kut Jen faire paynmam soppes, and caste the soppes there-on, 
And seme it in mwner of potage. 

Letlardes. ^| Take mylke scalding hote ; And take eyren, the yolkes and 
the white, and drawe hem thorgh a streynowr, and caste to Je mylke ; And 
Jen drawe Je iuce of herbes, which that Jou wift, so Jat Jey ben goode, and 
drawe hem thorgh a streynowr. And whan the mylke bigynneth to crudde, 
caste Je luce thereto, if Jou wilt haue it grene ; And if Jou wilt haue it rede, 
take Saundres, and cast to Je mylke whan it croddeth, and leue Je herbes ; 
And if Jou wilt haue hit yelowe, take Saffron, and caste to Je mylke whan 
hit cruddeth, and leve Je Saundres ; And if Jou wilt haue it of al Jes colours, 
take a potte with mylke & Iuse of herbes, and anojar potte with mylke 
and saffron ; And anoJ*r 2 potte with mylke and saundres, and put hem al in 
a lynnen cloje, and presse hem al togidur ; And if Jou wilt haue it of one 
colour, take but one cloth, 3 and streyne it in a cloth in Je same maner, and 
bete on Je clothe with a ladeti or a Skymowr, to make sad or 4 flatte ; and 
leche it fair*? with a knyfe, and fry the leches in a pan with a lituH fressh 
grece ; And take a lituft, and put hit in a dissh, and s*rue it forth. 

Leche lumbard*. % Take Dates, and do awey Je stones; and seth hem in 
swete wyne ; and take hem vpp*, and grinde hem in a morter, and drawe hem 
Jorgh a streynottr with a litutt swete wyne and sugur ; and caste hem in a 
potte, and lete boyle til it be stiff ; and Jen take hem vppi, and ley hem vp 
apon a borde ; and then take pouder ginger, CaneH, and wyn, and melle al 
* D. sAda Jiowres. * fol. 18*. s Douce MS. of these. * Douce MS. and. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. CRYSPES, POTEROUS. 93 

togidre in thi honde, and make it so stiff that hit woti be leched ; And if 
hit be not stiff ynowe, take hard yolkes of eyrefi and creme thereon, or elles 
grated brede, and make it thik ynogfc ; take Clarey, and caste thereto in 
maner of siripp*, whan Jou shall seme hit forthe. 

Aufcfr leche lumbard. ^] Take faire hony, and clarefy it in \e fire til hit l 
be stiff ynowe ; and then take hit vpp* and ley hit on a borde ; and take faire 
grated brede and ponder of pepar, and mett al togidre with thi honde, til hit 
be so stiff that hit wol be leched ; and leche hit. And then take wyne, 
pouder of Qjnger, CaneH, and a litel clarefied hony, and lete refi thorgh a 
streynowr, and cast }e sirip there- on, whan that thou shall seme hit in stede 
of Clarre. 

Cryspes. ^f Take white of eyrefi, Milke, and fyne floure, and bete hit 
togidre, and drawe hit thorgfc a streynour, so that hit be rennyng, and noght 
to stiff ; and caste there- to sngur and salt. And then take a, chaffur ful of 
fressh grece boyling; and Jen pnt thi honde in the batnr a and lete the bater 
refi thorgh thi fingers into }e chaffur ; And whan it is refi togidre in the 
chaflre, and is ynowe, take a Skymour, and take hit oute of the chaffur, and 
putte onte al the grece, And lete refi ; And putte hit in a faire dissh, and cast 
sugwr thereofi ynow, and same it forth. 

Poterons. 3 ^f Take a shoueti of yrefi, and hete him brennyng bote in )>e fire ; 
and yen. take him oute of the fire, and fil him fuH of salt ; And then make a 
coffyn), and putte in the salt al holowe, }e shappe of a treyfi dissh ; and sette 
}e pan and \e salt oner the fire ayefi, til }e salt be brennyng hote ; and then 
oast the white and \e yolkes of rawe eyren in-to J?e hole of salt, and lete 
stonde in \e fire til hit be half hard ; And then put a dissh half of salt ; And 
]?efi take a dressing knyfe, and put vnder ]?e salt 4 and Je pan, and heve hit 
vpp* fro the fire, that \e coffyfi with the eyrefi breke not ; And J?efi sette hit 
in \e dissh with the salt, and serue it forth. 

Eisshewes. % Take figges, and grinde hem all rawe in a morter, and cast 
a lituH fraied oyle *there-to ; And J?efi take hem vpp* yfi a vessel!, and caste 
there-to pynes, reysyns of corafice, myced dates, sugwr, Saffrofi, pouder ginger, 
and salt : And Jen make Cakes of floure, Sugwr, salt, and rolle Je stuff in thi 
honde, and couche it in }e Cakes, and folde hem togidur as risshewes, And 
fry hem in oyle, and s*rue hem forth. 

1 Donee MS. adds after hit : * wex hard : & take hard yolkes of eyren* & cryme hem a 
grett quawtite ther-to, till it,' &c. 2 fol. 19. s Harl. MS. Poterons. 

4 MS. repeats < And then take a dressing knyfe, and pntte vnder the salt.' 



94 COOKERY BOOK II. HAUL. 4016. TAYLOURS, GYNGAUTREY. 

Potage de egges. 1 % Take faire water and cast in a f air* frying pail, or ellej 
in an o\er vesseH, til hit boyle, and skeme it weH ; And then breke faire rawe 
egges, and caste hem in Je water, And lete \e water stonde stil ou*r )>e fire, 
and lete the egges boyle harder or nessher as \>ou wilt. 

Taylowrs. ^ Take almondes, and grynde hem raw in a morter, and temper 
hit 2 witfc wyne and a litul water; And drawe hit jrorgfr a streynowr into a 
goode stiff mylke into a potte ; and caste thereto reysons of coraunce, and grete 
reysons, myced Dates, Clowes, Maces, Pouder of Pep*r, Canel, saffron a good 
quantite, and salt ; and sette hem ouera the fire, And lete al boyle togidre 
awhile ; And alay hit vp with flonre of Ryse, or elles grated brede, and cast 
there-to sugur and salt, And Berne hit forth in maner of mortrewes, and caste 
there-ofi ponder ginger in J>e dissh. 

Malmens bastard, % Take a poteti of clarefied hony, and a ponnde of 
pynes, s and I. pounde of Reysons of coraunce, Saundres, pouder canett, And ij. 
galons of wyne or ale, and pouder peper, and cast al in a potte, And skeme 
hit clene ; And Jen take iij. ft. pounde 4 Almondes, 5 and stepe to-gidre, And 
drawe hem J?orgh a streynour; And whan the potte boyleth, cast Je licowr to, 
& aley hit vp al stonding; And Jen take pouder ginger, salt in 6 saffron), and 
ceson hit vpp*, and s*rue hit forth in a dissfc al hote, and salt; And cast 
pouder ginger thereon) in Je dissh, and same it forth. 

Gyngautrey. 7 % Take paunches and lyners of a codlyng, or haddok, or elles 
kelyng, and seth hem in faire water ; And take hem vpp* ofl a faire horde, 
& myce the panches small; And Jeft take fressfr" broth of fressfc Salmon, or of 
eles, or of turbut, and cast Je myced paunches thew-to, And pouder of pepar, 
and lete boyle ; And then take the broth that \e paunches and lyuers wera 
y-sodde in, And stepe thew-in faire brede, and drawe hit thorgh a streyno«r ; 
And Jefi myce )>e lyuers in faire peces ; And whan the paunche hath wel 
y-boyled in )>e licowr, 8 caste J?e lyuers thereto, and lete boyle a while ; And 
serue hit forth hote for gode potage ; and late hit be som-dele rennyng*. 

fifygey. ^ Take figges, and caste hem in a potte, And cast thew-to wyne or 
Ale, 'and lete hem boile, And take hem vpp*, and bray hem in a morter ; 
And J?en take brede, and stepe in )>e same licowr, and cast thereto, And drawe 
hem Jorgh a streynour, and caste hit in a faire potte with wyne or ale ; and 

1 D. Pocched egges, 2 fol. 19*. 3 D. pepyr pynes. 4 3 pounds of pounded. 

5 Amydones, Douce MS. which adds, a galon* of wym, & a gode quanta te of yynegre 
& lete. • Douce MS. and, 7 Harl. MS. Gyngantrey. 

8 Douce MS. adds: cast the Hour ther-to and lete buttle awhile, & then ; the Hour being 
the brede and broth. 9 fol. 20, 



COOKERY BOOK II. HAUL. 4016. RAPES, JUSSELL. 95 

Jerk take figes, and kutte hem smale, pynes, saundres, pouder of pep*r, a lituH 
saffron and salt, and cast J*r-to, and seme hit standing, 

Chaudewym. If Take Je Guttes of fressh" Samon), and do awey the gaH; and 
slytte hem, and caste hem in a potte, and boyle hem in water right well ; 
And ley hem vpon a horde, and hewe hem ; And Jen stepe brede in Je same 
licowr, And cast som of the samoii broth thereto, And drawe all thorgh a 
streynowr ; and then caste the heweil guttes and Je drawen brede in a potte, 
and a litull wyn, ponder of Canell, or saffrofi, And lete boyle togidre ; And 
cast thereto pouder of pep*r, Vinegre, and salt ; And lete hit be rennyng. 

Eapes. % Take half figges and half reysons, and boile hem in wyn, and 
take hem vp, and bray hem in a morter, And drawe hem with Je same licowr 
thorgh a streynowr, so thik that hit be stonding ; And then take resons of 
^orance, Pynes, Clowes, Maces, sugur of Cipris, and cast Jewto, and put hit 
in a faire potte; And then take a fewe Saundres, pouder pep^r, Canefl, 
and a lituH Saffron ; And if hit be not stonding ynogh, take a litull floure of 
Amidons, And drawe hit with wyn) thorgh a streynowr, And cast thereto salt, 
and s*rue it forth stondyng. 

IussheH. % Take the ffry of a pyke, and cast hit rawe in a morter, and 
cast there -to myced 1 brede grated, and bray hem asmail as Jou maist ; And if 
hit be to stonding, caste there-to a litull mylke of Almondes, And bray hit 
togidre, and strek 2 hit togidre with thi honde ; And cast thew-to a lituH saffron 
with Sugur and salt, And put all in a treen boll, and truti 3 hit to-gidre with 
thi honde ; And loke Jat hit be nojt to thik, but as 4 a man may powre it oute 
of J?e boH ; And Jen take a pan, and caste thereto faire grauey of a pike, or of 
a fressh samon, and drawe hit thorgh a streynowr, and sette it ouer the fire ; 
and take faire porcely and Sauge, and caste there-to, and lete hit boile, and 
caste there-to a litull saffron and salt ; And whan hit hath boyled a while, sterra 
hit fast, and caste the stuff thereto, and ster hit eu*rmore. And whafi hit is 
al oute of the boile, [cast it] 5 a liteH and a liteH into Je pan, stew it softer 
and softer til hit be ron to-gidre ; And Jen take a ladeH or a skymmowr, and 
drawe hit togidre soft til hit come to-gidre, And take hit fro Je fire, and sette 
Je vessel! on a fewe colys, and lete hit wax stiff be his owne accorde, and 
then 8*rue it forth with a skymour, like as Jou wolt serue IusseH, ail hote. 

Oele of peson. ^f Take a pike newe right y-drawe, 8 and smyte him in faire 

1 MS. myced myced. D. maynehete. * Douce MS. strike. 

* P twill*, as Douce MS. * fol. 20*. 5 Added from Douce MS. 

6 Douce MS. : Draw new pikes and new righ, and smyte hem. 



96 COOKERY BOOK II. HAUL. 4016. CAUDLES, OIL SOPS. 

peces, and sethe him in same licowr as Jou doest Gele of flessfc/ And whafi hit 
is ynogfc, take hit vpp* ; And Jefi take parches, tenches, elys, & kutte hem 
in faire peces, and wassfc hem, and put hem in the same licowr ; and loke that 
thou haue fissfc ynogfc, that the licoure may he stiff ynowe ; And in caas Jat 
Jou faile fissfc, that Jou hast not ynogfc to make gely, take faire soundes of 
watered stokfissfc, or elles of ffresfc MilleweH, or elles of kelyng, 1 and cast 
thereto ; and sette ouer Je fire, and lete it boyle ; and Jat wofi help hit to gele ; 
and skem clene Je grave; And whan hit is ynogfc, lete nojt the fissfc breke, 
but take vpp* the fissfc hole, and set the licowr fro the fire, and put coles 
vndernetfc the vessel! as Jou doest afore to the o\er gele of fiessfc, with 
vinegre, ponder of peper, saffron & salt ; And Jen take a pike, p*rche, and 
tenche, and pul of the skyfi, And put a pece of one and a pece of anojer in a 
faire dissfc, as Jou dost ojer gele of fiiesfc, And poure the licowr thew-ofi, as Jo*n 
doest ojer gele of fiessfc ; and cast there-ofi almondes blanched, and foyles of 
tried a ginger pared, and set hit in a colde place, and lete hit gele. 

Caudett. % Take faire tryed yolkes of eyreii, and cast in a potte ; and take 
good ale, or elles good wyn, a quantite, and sette it ouer Je fire/ And whafi 
hit is at boyling, take it fro the fire, and caste Jere-to saffron, salt, Sugur; 
and cesofi hit vpp*, and s*rue hit forth hote. 

Oyle soppes. % Take a good quantite of oynons, and myce hem, no;t to 
smale, & seth hem in faire water, And take hem vpp* ; and then take a 
good quantite of stale ale, as .iij. galons, And there-to take a pynte of goode 
oyle that is fraied, and cast the oynons there-to, And lete al boyle togidre a 
grete [while] ; 8 and caste there-to Saffron and salt, And Jen put brede, in 
maner of brewes, and cast the licowr there-on, and s*rue hit forth hote. 

Caudett de Almondes. % Take rawe almondes, and grinde hem, And 
temper hem with goode ale and a litul water; and drawe hem thorgh a 
streynowr into a faire potte, and lete hit boyle awhile ; And cast there-to 
saffron, Sugur and salt, and sirue hit forth hote. 

'Cheaut de Almondes. % Take almondes, and blanche hem, and grynde hem 
with faire water, and drawe hem thorgh a streynowr, and sette hem on the 
fire, and lete hem boyle ones ; and cast there-to sugur and salt, And smie it 
forth hote. 

Lente ffrutowrs. ^f Take goode floure, Ale yeest, 8 saffron, and salt, and bete 
al to-gidre as thik as ojer maner frutowrs of fiiesfc ; and Jen take Appels, and 

1 D. kodelyng. 2 fol. 21. 8 Douce MS., wife. 

4 Chaudlet Douce MS. b D. however reads AU and yeett. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. DISHES OF FRUIT. 97 

pare hem, and kut hem in maner of ffrutowrs, and wete hem in Je batur vp 
and downe, and fry hem in oyle, and cast hem in a dissfr, and cast sugwr 
Jaroii ynowe, and eerae hem forth hote. 

[Lesenges Fries. 1 ] % Take floure, water, saffron, sugwr, and salt, and 
make fyne paast J*r-of, *and faire thy ft kakes ; and kutte hem like losenges, 
and fry hem in fyne oile, and s^rue hem forthe hote in a dissh in lentefi tyme. 

[Ei88ohewes de frnte. 3 ] f Take ffigges, and grinde hem in a morter al smal 
with a liteH oyle, and grynde with hem, clowes, and maces ; and then take 
hem vpp* in-to a dissfc, and caste thereto pynes, sanndres, reisbns of coraunce, 
myced dates, ponder of Pep*r, Caneti, Saffron, and salt ; And then make fyne 
paast of floure, water, sugur, saffron, and salt, And make there-of faire kakes ; 
and thefi rolle the stuff in thi honde, and couche hit in Je kakes ; kutte hem, 
and so folde hem [togedrys] 4 as risshewes, And fry hem in goode Oyle, And 
serue hem forthe hote. 

[Trayne roste. 6 ] % Take Dates and figges, and kutte hem in a peny 
brede ; And Jen take grete reysons and blanched almondes, and prik hem 
thorgh with a nedel into a threde of a mannys length, and one of one frute 
and a-nojer of a-nojer frute ; and Jen bynde the threde with the frute 
A-bought a rownde spete, endelonge Je spete, in maner of an hasselet ; And 
then take a quarte of wyne or Ale, and fyne floure, 8 And make batur thereof, 
and cast thereto pouder ginger, sugur, & saffron, 7 ponder of Clowes, salt; 
And make Je batur not fully rennyng, and nojer stonding, but in Je mene, 
that hit may cleue, and 8 than rost the 8 treyne abought the fire in Je spete ; And 
Jen cast the batur on the treyne as he turneth abough[t] the fire, so longe 
til Je frute be hidde in the batur ; as Jou castest Je batur therc-on, hold a 
TesseH vndere-nethe, for 9 spilling of Je batur/ And whan hit is y-rosted well, 
hit wol seme a hasselet ; And then take hit vpp* fro Je spit al hole, And kut 
hit in faire peces of a Span length, And [serue] l0 of hit a pece or two in a 
dissh al hote. 

Quynces or Wardones in paast. % Take and make rounde coffyns of 

paast; and take rawe quynces, and [pare] 11 l2 hem with a knyfe, and take 

oute clene the core ; And take Sugwr ynogh, and a lituH pouder ginger and 

stoppe the hole fuH. And Jen couche ij. or iij. quynces or wardons in a 

Coffyn), and keuer hem, And lete hem bake ; or elles take clarefied hony in. 

stede of sugur, if thou maist none sugur; And if Jou takest [hony], 13 put 

1 Douce MS. 2 fol. 2lb. s Douce MS. * Douce MS. 

6 Douce MS. « D. MS.; augur, Harl. 7 Douce MS. 6 - 8 D. MS.; that ro»t y Harl. 

• against, to stop. 10 Douce MS. li added from D. MS. la fol. 22. 13 Douce MS. 

7 



98 COOKERY BOOK II. HAUL. 4016. FRUIT TART, CHBWRTS, ETC. 

thereto a KtuH pouder pep*r, and ginger, and put hit in Jw same maner in the 
quynces or wardons, and late hem bake ynogfc. 

^astons. f Take fyne floure, and white of eyreli, and a litul of the yolkes ; 
And then take warme berm, and put al thes togidre, and bete hem togidr* 
with thi honde so longe til hit be 9 short and thik ynogfi. And caste sugwr 
ynowe thereto ; And ]>efi lete rest a while ; And then cast hit in a f aire place 
in an oven), and lete bake ynogn" ; And )>en kut hit with a knyfe rownde 
aboue in maner of a crowne, and kepe )?e crust J>at )>ou kuttest, and pile 3 all 
\q cremes * within togidre ; and pike hem small with" thi knyfe, and sane the 
sides and al }e cruste hole wt'Uoute ; And JeiL cast thi clarefied butter, and 
medle )>e creme 5 and J>e buttwr togidre, And couer hit ayefi with J>e cruste 
that )?ou kuttest awey ; and then put hit in the oveil ayefi a lituH tyme, and 
take it oute, and serue hit forthe aH hote. 

Tart de ffruyte. % Take figges, and seth hem in wyne, and grinde hem 
smale, And take hem vpp* into a vesseft ; And take pouder pep^r, CaneH, 
Clowes, Maces, pouder ginger, pynes, 6 grete reysons of corauwce, saffron, and 
salte, and cast thereto; and Jefi make faire lowe coffyns, and couche )>is 
stuff therein, And plonte pynes aboue ; and kut dates and fressfc salmon in 
faire peces, or elles f ressfi eles, and parboyle hem a litufl in wyne, and couche 
thereofi; And couche 7 the coffyns faire with }e same paaste, and endore the 
coffyfi withoute w*tA saffron & almond mylke ; and set hem in Je oven and 
lete bake. 

[Chewettes]. % 8 Take and make faire paste of floure, water, saffron, and 
salt ; And make rownde cofyns Jere-of ; and }eh make stuff as ]?ou doest for 
rissneshewes, and put )>e stuff in J?e Coffyns, and couer the coffyns with J?e 
same paaste, and fry hem in goode oyle as }>ou doest risslishewes, and s*rue 
hem forthe hote in the same maner. 

Lamprey I-bake. % Take and make a faire rounde coffyii of paast ; and 

Jen take a fressfi lamprey, and lete him blode .ij. Angers within J>e naueH, 

And lete him blode in a vesseH, and lete him dy in Je same blode ; And 

then take browne brede, and kut hit, and stepe hit in vinegrc, and drawe hit 

Jorgn" a streynowr ; and Jefi take J?e same blode, and pouder of Canefl, And 

cast there-to, til hit be browne ; And then cast thereto a litul pouder of 

pep*r and salt, and a lituH wyne, that hit be not to stronge with vynegre ; 

And then skald the lamprey, and pare him clene, and couche him rounde in 

1 Douce MS.; Bostons, HarL a Douce MS. 8 Douce MS.; pike Harl. 

* Douce MS. eromes. 6 Douce MS. crommes. 6 D. adds : reysyna fried in oyle. 

? Douce MS. keuire. 8 fol. 226. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. LAMPRBY SAUCE AND PICKLE. 99 

a coffyfi ; and Jen caste al J?e sewe rownde abought vppofi him in the coffyfi 
til hit be couered; And then couer }e coffyfi, and hele hit with a lydde aboue, 
save a litul hole; and at the hole blowe in the coffyfi with thi mouthe 
a good blast of wynde ; and sodenly stoppe the hole, that the wynde abide 
within J?e coffyfi, to ryse up J>e cofyfi that he fall not a-downe. And whafi 
hit is a litul y-harded in \q oven, prik the coffyn) with a pyfi, for l brestyng 2 
of )>e coffyfi ; And lete bake ynowe, And s*rue it forthe colde. And whafi 
the lamprey is ytake oute of J?e coffyfi, and I-ete, 8 take the siripp* oute of 
J?e coffyfi, and put hit in a chargecwr, and caste wyne thereto, And pouder 
of ginger, And lete boyle ouer J>e fire ; And take paynmatn, and kutte hit 
and wete hit yfi, And ley J>e soppes yfi the coffyfi of Je lamprey, And cast 
the siripp* aboue, and ete it so/ 

Sauce powr lamprey, ^f Take a quyk lamprey, And lete him blode at )>e 
nauell, And lete him blode in afi erthefi potte ; And scalde him with hey, and 
wassh \nm 4 clene, and put him [on a spitte ;] 5 and sette the vessel! with )>e 
blode vnder ]>e lamprey while he rosteth, And kepe the licoure J?at droppeth 
oute of him ; And-thefi take oynons, and myce hem small, And put hem yfi a 
vessel! with wyne or water, And let hem pewboyle right well ; And then take 
awey the water, and put hem in a faire vessel! ; And Jen take pouder of Caneli 
and wyne, And drawe hem thorgfc a streynowr, and cast [hit to] 6 the oynons, 
and set ouer the fire, and lete hem boyle ; And cast a litul! vinegre and 
parcely thereto, and a litul pep*r ; And Jefi take J>e blode and J>e dropping 
of J?e lamprey, and cast thereto [& lete buille to-gedrys til! it be a liteH 
thykke, & cast therto] 7 pouder ginger, vynegre, salt, and a litul! saffrofi; 
And whafi Je lamprey is 8 rosted ynowe, ley him in a faire chargeowr, And 
caste aH the sauce apofi him, And so aerae him forth. 

Lamprey poudred. ^ Take a lamprey poudred, and stryke away the salt 
with thi honde ; take awey the bone fro Je Jrote into J>e tayle by the bely 
side, And ley him in water a day and a nyght, and scald him in water with 
strawe or hey, to stripe him with-al! ; And then wassh him clene, and cast 
him in faire water colde, and seth him, and cast x. or xij. oynons hole vfi- 
pullud, and lete hem seth togidw, and skeni it ; And Jefi take vp the lamprey 
and Je oynons fro Je water, and ley hem in a dissh til! they befi colde ati ; 
and serue hem forthe colde with sauce Galentyne ; and myce the oynons in 9 
the sauce, & ete hem so. 

1 against, to stop. 8 Donee MS. ; brennyng, Harl. 8 eaten. * foL 23. 

6 Donee MS. ; Harl. MS. in a faire broths. 6 added from Douce MS. 

7 added from Douce MS. * Harl. MS. is ro. 9 Douce MS.; and Harl. 



100 COOKERY BOOK II. HAUL. 4016. LAMPRONS AND OYSTERS. 

Stokfissh in sauce, % Take faire broth of elys, or pike, or elles of fressh 
samond, And streyn hit thorgh a streynowr; and take faire parceUy, And 
hewe hem small, And putte the broth and Je parcelly into an erthen potte, 
And cast J*rto pouder gingar, and a litul vergeous, And lete hem boyle 
to-gidre ; and Jen take faire sodden) stokfissh, and ley hit in hote water ; and 
whan Jou wilt s*rue it forth, take Je fissh fro Je water, and ley hit in a 
dissh, And caste the sauce al hote there- on, and s*rue it forth. 

Lamprons in Galentyne. % Take brede, and stepe it in wyne and vynegre, 
and cast there-to Canefi, 1 and drawe it thorgh a streynowr ; and do it in a 
potte, and cast pouder of pep*r thereto; And take smale oynons, and myce 
hem, and fry hem in oyle, & cast there- to a fewe saundres, and lete hem boyle 
a litul ; And then take lamprons, and scalde hem with hey in hote water, 
and seth" hem ; and Jen b[r]oyle 2 hem on a faire gredren, and Jeii couche hem 
in a dissh and cast the sauce on hem, And then serue it forth. 

Lamprons ybake. f Take lamprons, and scalde hem with hey; and make 
faire paaste, and couche ij. or iij. lamprons thereon, with pouder ginger, salt 
and pep*r, and lete bake ; And leche samon in faire brode peces, and bake 
hem in Je same maner. • 

Oystres in gnmey. % Take almondes, and blanche hem, and grinde hem, 
and drawe hem Jorgh a streynowr with wyne, and with goode fressh broth 
into gode mylke, and sette hit on Je fire and lete boyle ; and cast Jeieto 
Maces, clowes, Sugur, pouder of Gingw, and* faire parboyled oynons myced; 
And Jen take faire oystres, and parboile hem togidre in faire water ; And 
then caste hem there-to, And lete hem boyle togidre til Jeyjben ynowe; and 
s*rue hem forth for gode potage. 

Oystres in cevey. ^| Take oystres and sheH hem and put hem in a vessel, 
(and Je water that is within Je oystres with-aH ;) And cast J*rto a litul wyne, 
And sette hem over the fire, and parboyle hem ; And Jen take faire Je oystres 
vpp* of the broth, and put hem in a faire potte ; And take Je same broth, and 
drawe hit thorgh a streynowr, and cast hit in-to Je oystres, And sette hit ouer 
the fire ; And take a lituH Of Je same broth ayefi ; and a litufl wyne, and put 
hit yfl a faire vesseH, and put Jere-to browne crustes and pouder caneti, and 
draw hit thorgh a streynowr ; and myce oynons smaH, and fry hem in oyle or 
in butter, and caste hem there-to, and sette ouer the fire. And whan Je 
oystres boyleth, caste the licoure 3 there-to, and ceson hit vpp* with pouder of 
peper, salt, and a litel saffron), and cast there-to a litul vinegre, Jat hit be 
i fol. 23*. 8 Douce MS. bouille. * fol. 24. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. DISHES OF PIKE. 101 

poynant thereof in j>e sesenyng and browne also ; And Berne hit forth for a 
gode potage. 

Pike in galentyne. ^f Take a pike and setn" him ynowe in gode sauce ; And 
Jen couche him in a vesseH, that he may be y-caried yfi, if Jou wilt// And 
what tyme he is colde, take brede, and stepe hit in wyne and vinegrc, and cast 
thew-to canefl, and drawe hit Jorgfi a streynowr, And do hit in a potte, And 
caste thew-to pouder peper; And take smale oynons, and inyce hem, And 
fry hem in oyle, and cast there-to a fewe saundres, and lete boyle awhile ; 
And cast aH this hote vppon Je pike, and cary him forth. 

Pike boyled. ^f Take and make sauce of f aire water, salt, and a lituH Ale 
and parcelly ; and Jen take a pike, and nape him, and drawe him in Je bely, 
And slytte him thorgh the bely, bak, and hede and taile, with a kn^e in to * 
peces ; and smyte Je sides in quarters, and wassh hem clene ; And if tjhou 
wilt have him rownde, schoche him by Je hede in Je backe, And drawe 
him there, 2 And skoche him in two or iij. peces 3 in Je bak, but nojt thorgh ; 
And slyt the pouuche, 4 And kepe the fey or the lyuer, and kutte awey the 
gaH. And whan Je sauce biginneth to boyle, skem hit, And wassh Je pike, 
and cast him Jer*-in, And caste Je pouche and fey thereto, And lete hem 
boyle togidre; And Jen make the sauce thus: myce the pouche and fey f 
[in] 6 a litul gravey of Je pike, And cast Jew-to pouder of ginger, vergeow*, 
mustards, and salt, And seme him forth hote. 

Pike in brase. ^ Take CaneH, a quarte of wyne, and a lituH vinegr*, 
And stepe thew-yrk tendur brede ; and thrawe it Jorgh a streynowr, And lete 
boyle vrith pouder of pep^r ; And take the pike, and roste him splat on a 
gredir* ynogh ; And cast to Je sauce Jen, [with] pouder of ginger and sugwr ; 
And ley the pike in A 6 charger, the wombe side vpward ; and then caste the 
sauce thereon al hote, and so s*rue him forth. 

Auter pike in Oalentyn*. ^] Take browne brede, and stepe it in a quarte 

of vinegre, and a pece 7 of wyne for a pike, and quarterefi of pouder caneH, 

and drawe it thorgh a streynowr skilfully thik, and cast it in a potte, and lete 

boyle ; and cast there-to pouder pep*r, or ginger, or of clowes, and lete kele. 

And Jen take a pike, and seth him in good sauce, and take him vp, and lete 

him kele a litul ; and ley him in a boll for to cary him yn ; and cast Je sauce 

ynder him and aboue him, that he be al y-hidde in Je sauce ; and cary him 

whej*r eu*r Jou wolt. 

1 i.e. two. * MS. there &. 8 Douce MS. plaeya. * i.e. poehe of a fish, see below. 
6 Douce MS., and Harl 6 fol 24*. 7 Douce MS. pynt. 



102 COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. SALMON, TROUT, CRAB, PERCH. 

Salmon fressfc boiled, f Take a fressfc Salmon, and drawe him in J>e bely ; 
and chyne hiiw as a swyne, and leche him flatte with a knyf e ; and kutte the 
chyne in ij. or in .iij. peces, and roste him on a faire gredryii; & make faire 
sauce of water, parcelly, and salt. And whafi hit begynnetfc to boyle, skein 
it clene, and cast \q peces of salmofi J?ere-to, and lete hem sethe ; and J>efi 
take hem vpp*, and lete hem kele, and ley a pece or ij. in a dissfc ; and wete 
faire foiles of parcely in vinegre, and caste hem vppofi J>e salmofi in the 
dissfc ; And )?en ye shall serue hit forthe colde. 

Samofi roste in Sauce, ^f Take a Salmond, and cut him rounde, chyne and 
att, and roste the peces on a gredir* ; And take wyne, and pouder of CaneH, 
and drawe it Jorgfc a streynour ; And take smale myced oynons, and caste 
J>ere-to,*and lete hem boyle ; And J>efi take vynegw, or vergeotw, and pouder 
ginger, and cast there-to ; And J?en ley the samofi in a dissfc, and cast }e 
sirip ]>*rofi al hote, & s*rue it forth. 

Troute boyled. % Take a troute, and nape him ; And make faire sauce of 
water, parcely, *and salt, and whafi hit bigynnetfc to boile, skeme hit clene; 
and drawe him in ]>e bely ; and if J?ou wilt haue him rounde, kut him in J>e 
bakke in two or }re places, but nojt Jorgfc, And drawe him in )>e sket* next 
the hede, as thou doest a rounde pike ; and J>e sauce is verge sauce ; or eHes 
setfc J?e pouche as J>e dost J?e pouche of a pike, and myce hem with J>e grauey, 
and pouder of ginger ; and smie him forth colde, and cast }e foiles of parcelly, 
y-wet in vinegre, on him in a dissfc. 

Crabbe or Lopster boiled, % Take a crabbe or a lopster, and stop him in 
J>e vente with on of hir* clees, and seth him in water, and.no salt; or elles 
stoppe him in ]?e same man*r, and cast him in an oven, and bake him, and 
serue him forth colde. And his sauce is vinegre. 

Perche boiled. ^ Take a perche, and drawe him in J?e throte, and make to 
him sauce of water and salt ; And whan hit bigynnetfc to boile, skeme hit and 
caste ]>e -perche thew-in, and seth him ; and take him vpp*, and pul him, 
and s*rue him forth colde, and cast vppofi him foiles of parcelly. and J>e 
sau[c]e is vinegre or vergeous. 8 

ffloundres boiled. % Take floundres, and drawe hem in the side by the hede, 
and seth 4 hem, & make sauce of water and salt, and a good quantite of ale ; 
And whafi hit biginneth to boile, skeme it, and caste hem thereto ; And late 
hem sethe, and smie hem forth hote; and no sauce but salt, or as a 
man luste. 

1 fol. 25. * Douce MS. tkoeh. 3 Douce MS. vert sauee. * Douce MS. scocch. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HAUL. 4016. SHRIMPS, PLAICE, SOLES. 103 

Shrympes. ^ Take Shrympes, and setfe hem in water and a lituH salt, and 
lete hem boile ones or a lituH more. And seme hem forthe colde ; And no 
mmev finite but virie|jfe. 

Breme or Roche boiled, ^f Take a Breme or a roche, and scalde him in 
water, and drawe him J>e side by }e hede, and scocche * him [in] J?e Bide in 
two or thre places, but not a thorgh, and setfr him in water, ale, and salt, and 
s*rue him forth hote ; the sauce is vergyussauce or sauce ginger. 

Breme rost ensauce. f Take a breme, and scald him, (but nojt to moche,) 
and drawe him in J>e bely, and pryk him Jorgh J?e chyne bon ij. or iij.* with 
a knyfe, and roste him on a gredir*. And take wyne, and boile hit, and cast 
thereto ponder ginger, vergeotw, and salt, anji cast ofi/^e breme in a dissfc, and 
seme him forth hote. ! ''t* * 

Plaise boiled, f Take a playse, and drawe him in the side by the hede ; And 
make sauce of water, parcetfy, salt, And a litul ale; And whan hit bigynnetfc 
to boyle, skeme hit clene, ai<i caste hit there-to, and lete setfc/ And sauce to 
him is mustard and t ale and salt ; And sirue it forthe hote/ or elles take a 
plays, and*4rawe him, pWke him with a knyfe for broking, as he frietfc ; 
And fry him in hote oile, or elles in clarefied buttur. 

Bay boiled. ^[ Take a Bay, and draw him in }>e bely, and kutte him in 
peces, and setfc him in water, and no salt, and s*rue him forth colde. And 
his sauce is vergeow*, or lyuer with mustards ; And boyle J?e lyuer with him, 
And sirue him forthe. 

Sole, boiled, rost, or*fryed. f Take a sole, and do awey J>e hede, and 
drawe him as a plais, and ne him; And make sauce of water, parcelly and 
salt ; Arid wlian hit b^gynneth to boile, skeme it clene, and lete boyle ynogh. 
And if J?ou wilt haue him in sauce, take him whan he is y-sodde ; or elles 
take him rawe and drawe him, and scale him with a knyfe, And ley him 
vppofi a gredryfi, and broile him. And take wyne and pouder of CaneH, and 
lete boyle a while, And caste thew-to pouder ginger, And vergeous ; and caste 
J?e sauce on J?e sole in J?e dissh, And serue him forthe hote. Or elles take a 
sole, and do a-wey J>e hede ; drawe him, and scalde him, and pryk him with 
a knyfe in diuerse places for 4 brekyng of J?e skyfi ; And fry it in oyle, or 
elles in pured buttur. 

Gurnard rosted or boyled. % Take a Gurnard, and drawe him in J>e bely 

and saue* the powche w«tA-yn hole ; and make sauce of water and salt ; And 

whan hit bigynneth to boile, skeme it clene, And cast the Gurnard thereto, 

1 Harl. scorch* ' Douce MS. scocche, 2 fol. 25b, * twies or thries. 

* fol. 26. 6 Douce MS. : HarL sauce. 



104 COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. MINNOWS, BARBEL, STURGEON. 

And seth him, and 1 sauce/ to him is sauce of ginger, or vergyussauce, and 
seme him colde. 

Anojer. % Take a gurnard rawe, and slytte him endelonge the bak, Jorgh 
Je hede and tayle, and splatte him, and kepe the lyuer; And take Je rawe 
lyuer, and brede, and fissh broth, Wyne, and vinegre, And drawe hem thorgh. 
a streynowr, and lete boyle ; and Jefi cast there-to pouder ginger, saffron, and 
salt. And Jen [roste the gurnard, and splatte him ofl a gredire, and "ley 
hym in a dissh. 2 And Jen cast Je sauce on hym in Je dissh, and serue him 
forthe hote. 

Menese or loche boiled, % Take Menyse or loche, and pike hem f aire ; And 
make sauce of a gode quantite of ale and parcelly. And whan hit biginneth" 
nye to boyle, skeme it clone, and cast Je fissh* thereto ; and lete seth. And 
if a man wol, cast a litul saffron thereto: and sauce is vergesauce 8 ; And 
then ye shaR serue him forth" hote. 

Haddok or codlyng. % Take an haddok or codlyng, and drawe him in Je 
bely. And make sauce of water and salt ; And whafi hit bigynneth to boyle, 
skeme hit clene, and caste the fissh thereto, And seth hit in his sauce. His 
sauce is garlek or verge-sauce ; and serve him hote. 

BarbeH boyled. % Take a barbeH, and kutte him, and 4 draw him rounde ; 
And pike 4 in Je nape of the hede and seth him in water and salt, Ale, and 
p«rcely. And whan hit bygynneth to boile, skeme hit clene, and caste the 
barbel there-to, And seth him. And his .sauce is garlek or vergesauce, 5 And 
Jen serue him forth. 

Millet boyled. % Take a Millet, and scale him, and drawe him in Je bely, 
and wassh him clene ; and Jen take a pynte of wyne, and pouder caneti, And 
boile hem ouer the fire. And whan hit is yboiled ynowe, caste there-to pouder 
ginger and a litel vergeous ; and caste the same licowr vppon him in the dissfc, 
and serue him forth hote; other elles scale him and drawe him, and fry him 
in good oyle. 

Sturgeon boiled, f Take a Sturgeon, and kut of the vyn fro the tayle to Je 
hede, on Je bakke ; and chyne him and boyle him. And whan hit boileth, 
skeme it, and caste parcelly there-to, And lete hem boyle ynowe, And then 
take him vppe, And serue him forth colde witfc leves of parcelly wet in 
vinegre, and caste there-on in Je dissh ; And sauce Jer-to is vinegre. 

Sturgeon in broth, ^f Take fressh sturgeon, and chop it, and parboile it in 

1 MS. in. »-* Douce MS.; Harl. teste him. 

8 Douce MS. vert aauee. *-* Douce MS. draw hym as a rounde pike. 

6 foL 26$. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. STURGEON, PORPOISE, TENCH. 105 

water ; and take hit fro the fire, and streyne it * J>orgh a streynotir into a 
potte ; and pike clene the fissh thereto ; and cast there-to pouder pep*r, clowes, 
Maces, and caneti, and faire brede, and stepe hit with the same licowr, and 
streyn* hit thorgh a streynowr, and caste there-to ; And lete boyle togidre ; 
And caste thereto Saffron, pouder ginger, salt, And vinegre ; And thefi ye 
shaH serue it forth. 

Sturgeon powr porpeys. % Take a Sturgeofi, Turbut, or porpeys, and kut 
hit in fair* peces to bake ; And then make faire kakes of faire paast, And 
take pouder of pep*r, pouder of Ginger, Caneti, and salt, And medle ]>e& 
poudres and salt togiders ; And take and ley a pece of the fissh ofi a kake/ 
and ley )>e ponders vnderneth \q fissh, and aboue ynowe ; And ]>efi wete the 
sides of J?e paast with faire colde water, and close the sides to-gidre, and 
sette hem in an ovefi, and bake hem ynowe. 

2 fflrmenty with porpeys. flake faire almondes, and wassh hem clene, 
and bray hem in a morter, and drawe hem with water thorgh a streynowr 
into mylke, and caste hit in a vessel!. And then take wete, and bray it in a 
morter, that al J>e hole hoti be awey, and boyle hit in faire water til hit be 
wel ybroke and boyled ynowe. And J>eii take hit fro the fire, and caste 
thereto )>e mylke and lete boyle. And whan hit is yboyled ynowe, and thik, 
caste thew-to Sugur, Saffron, and salt ; and Jefi take a porpeys, and chyne 
him as a Samon, And seth him in faire water. And whan hit is ynowe, baude 
hit, and leche hit in faire peces, and s*rue hit forth with firmanty, and cast 
thew-on hote water 3 in Je dissh. 

Tenche in brase. % Take a tenche, and nape him, and slyt him in ]?e bak 
thorgh the hede and taile, And drawe him ; and J>efi make sauce of water 
and salt. And whan hit bigynneth to boyle, skeme it clene, and cast )>e tenche 
therein, and seth him ; And take him vpp*, and pul of the skyn, And ley him 
flatte, and }e bely vpwarda* in a dissh. And J>en take percelly and oynons 
And he we hem smati to-giders ; And cast J>ere-to pouder of Ginger, and cast hit 
in vinegre ; And caste ati on J?e tenche in J?e dissh, and serue him forth* colde. 

Another diting of a tenche. % Take a quarte of wyne and a litul vinegrp, 
And tenduw brede, And stepe ati togidre, and drawe hit thorgh a streynowr ; 
and lete hit boyle ; And caste there-to pouder pep*r ; And take a tenche, 
and splat him, and reste him on a gredire, and cast his sauce vppon him in 
the dissh ; And Jen serue hit f orthe hote. 

Turbut boyled. % Take a Turbut, and drawe him in the side as a plays by 

1 i.e. Cht broth, as Douce MS reads. 2 fol. 27. 3 Douce MS. broth. 



106 COOKERY BOOK II. HAUL. 4016. TURBOT, WHEBKS. 

the hede ; and J>eii chyne him, and kut him in brode peces ; And J>efi make 
Sauce of the water and salt ; And when hit bigynneth to boyle, skeme hit 
clene and * wassh the peces clene, and caste hem thereto, and lete hem boyle 
ynowe.. And Jen take hem vpp*, and let hem kele, And ley a pece or two in 
A dissh, and caste the levys of parcelly wette in vinegre there-on, And seme 
forth ; And his sauce is verge-sauce. 

Turbut roste ensauce. ^ Take a Turbut, and kut of )>e vynnes in maner 
of a hastelette, and broche him on a rounde broche, and roste him ; And whan 
hit is half y-rosted, cast thereofi smale salt as he rosteth. And take also as 
he rosteth, vergeotw, or vinegre, wyne, pouder of Gyng*r, and a lituH canefi, 
and cast thereof! as he rosteth, And holde a dissh vnderneth, fore spilling of 
the licowr ; And whafi hit is rosted ynowe, hete J?e same sauce ouer the fire, 
And caste hit in a dissh to J>e fissh ati hote, And s^rue it forth. 

Tripe de Turbut. % Take the mawes of a Turbot, Haddok, or codlyng*, 
and pike hem clene, and skrape hem, and wassh hem clene, and parboyle 
hem in good fressh broth of Turbot, haddok, Salmon, or pyk; and take 
parcelly, and kut hit smale, and caste Jew-to ; and kut )e mawes in maner 
of Tripes of peny brede, and cast al togidr* in a potte, And lete boyle. And 
whan hit is y-boyled ynowe, that J?ey be al tendre, caste Jere-to saffrofi, Salt, 
And a litel vergeow*, pouder of Gynger, And Berue hit forth fore a good potage. 

Welkes boyled. % Take welkes, and caste hem in colde water, And lete hem 
boyle but a litutt ; And caste hem oute of the vesseti, And pike hem oute of 
the shell, and pike awey the horn of hem, and wassh hem and rubbe hem well 
in colde water and salt, in two or thre waters ; And serue hem colde, And caste 
vppofi hem leves of parcelly ywet in vinegre, And sauce to hem, is vynegra. 

Milkemete. ^[ 2 Take faire mylke and floure, and draue hem Jwrgh a 
streynowr, and sette hem ouer the fire, and lete hem boyle awhile ; And then 
take hew vpp*, and lete hem kele awhile/ And Jen take rawe yolkes of eyrefi 
and drawe hem thorgh a streynowr, and caste thereto a lituti salt, And set it 
ouer the fire til hit be som-what thik, And lete hit no$t fully boyle, and stere 
it right well eudrmore. And put it in a dissh al abrode, And smie it forth 
fore a gode potage in one maner ; And then take Sugur a good quantite, 
And caste there-to, and same it forth. 

Chared coneys, 3 or chardwardon. % Take a quarter of clarefied hony, iij. 
vncM of pouder pep^r, and putte bothe to-gidre; then toke 30 coynes 
& x wardones, and pare h*m, and drawe oute Je corkes 4 at eyther ende, and 

1 foL 276. 2 fol. 28. 8 Char de coynes, quince marmalade ? * P cokes, or cores. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. QUINCE MARMALADE. 107 

seth" hem in goode wort til J>ey be soft, then bray hem in a morter ; if they 
ben thik, putte a lituti wyne to hem, and drawe hem thorgfc a streynowr ; 
And Jen put }e hony and Jat to-gidre, then sette al on the fire, and lete 
seth. awhile til hit wex thikka, but sterre it well with ij. sturrers for sitting 
to ; And Jen take it downe, and put J?ere-to a quarter of an vnce of pouder 
ginger, And bo moche of galingale, And so moche of pouder Caneti, And lete 
it cole ; then put hit in a box, And strawe pouder ginger and caneti there-on : 
And hit is comfortable for a mannys body, And namely 1 fore the Stomak. 
And if thou lust to make it white, leue the hony, And take so moch" sugur, 
or take part of Je one and part of Je ojer/ Also in this forme thou may make 
chard wardon. 

1 specially. 



108 



ASHMOLE MS. 1439. SAUCES. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE PAGE 

Sauces pur diuerse yiaundes : Chaudoun 108 Sauce for shulder of moton . . . . 110 

Sauce alepeuere ....... 108 Sauce vert 110 

Sauce galentyne 108 Surelle 110 

Sauce gingyiwr 109 Sauce p*rcely 110 

Sauce for a gos 109 Sauce gauncile 110 

Sauce camelyne 109 Pip*r for feel and for venysotm . . . 110 

Sauce rous 109 White sauce for capons y-sode . . . 110 

Sauce for stokefysshe 109 Black sauce for capouns y-rostyde . . 110 

Sauce for stokfysshe in an-other maner . 109 Sauce newe for malardis 110 

Sauce for peiou/is 109 

'Sauces pur diuerse viaundes. Chaudoun. — Take gysers, and lyuers, 
and hertt of Swanne ; and if Je guttys ben fatt, slyt 1 them, 2 and caste Jem 
J*r-to, and boile Jem in faire watre : and Janne take Jem up, and hew Jem 
smal, and thanne caste Jem in-to Je same broje, (but strayne hit Jurgh a 
straynour firste) ; and caste J*r-to poudre pepar, canel, and vynegre, and 
salt*, and lete boile. And Jamie take the blode of the Swanne, and freysshe 
broj, and brede, and draw Jem Jurwe a straynour, and cast* J*r-to ; and lete 
boile to-gedre. And Jenne take poudre of 1 gyngere, whanne hit 1 is al-moste 
y-now, & put* Jw-to, and serue forth. 3 

Sauce alepeuere. — Take fayre broun brede, toste hit, and stepe it 1 in 
vinegre, and drawe it 1 Jurwe a straynour; and put 1 J*r-to garleke smal 
y-stampyd, poudre pip*r, salt, & serue forth. 

Sauce galentyne. — Take faire crustej of* broun brede, stepe Jem in 
vinegre, and putt J*r-to poudre canel, and lete itt stepe J*r-wyJ til it be 
broun; and Janne drawe it Jurwe a straynowr .ij. tymes or .iij., and Janne 

1 If. 36. * clence thaym, added after them in different ink. 

8 with the swan, added in different ink. 



COOKERY BOOK III, ASHMOLE 1439. SAUCES FOR 8TOKFISH, ETC. 109 

put ]w[to] poudre pip*r and salte : & lete if be sumwhaf stondynge, and 
not to Jynne, & serue forth. 

Sauce gingyuir. — Take white brede, stepe it 1 wij> vynegre, and draw it 
.ij. or .iij. tymes Jmrj a straynour; and thanne put Jw-to 1 poudre gingere, 
and serue for)?e. 

Sauce for a gos. — Take p^rcelye, grapis, clowes of garleke, and salte, 
and put 1 it in ]?e goos, and lete roste. And whanne )>e goos is y-now, schake 
out* ]?af is wi]>-in, and put al in a mortre, and do \er-to .iij. harde jolkes of 
egges; and grynd al to-gedre, and tempre it 1 vp wij verious, and caste if 
upon the goos in a faire chargeour, & so serve it* forth. 

Sauce camelyne. — 2 Take faire brede, and cut 1 if, and toste it; and take 
vynegre and wyne, and stepe hif ]>er-in, and draw it Jurwe a straynour wi]> 
poudre canel, and draw it .ij. or .iij. tymes, til it be smothe. And )?anne 
take poudre ginger, sugre, and poudre of clowes, and cast Jw-to. And loke 
J?af if stonde wil by clowes, & by sugra; and Jranne puf J?er-to a litil 
safroune, and salt, and serue hit for]? Jicke y-nowe. 

Sauce rous. — Take brede, and broyl it vpon J?e colous, and make it 
broune, and ley hif in vynegre, and lete if stepe ; and ]>anne take piper, 
canel and notemyggej, and a fewe of clowes, and casf if to-gedre in-to a 
mortre; and take J?e brede ouf of )>e vynegre, and bray )>er-wy]\ And 
whanne if is y-brayd y-now, tempre if wyth wyne and vinegre, ani draw 
if J^urgh a straynour as J>ou woldiste galyntyne. 

Sauce for stokefysshe. — Take faire broje of elys, o\er of pyke, or els of 1 
freysshe Samon, and strayne it Jmrwe a straynour : and take faire p^rcely, 
and hewe if smal, and put ]>e broje and J?e p^rcele in-to a faire er)?yn vessel ; 
and put J>*r-to poudre gingere, and a litil verious, & lete boile to-gedre. 
And J?anne take faire sode stockefysche, and ley it in faire hote watre : and 
whanne J>ou wilt s*rue it for)?e, take J?e fysshe fro J?e watre, and ley it in a 
clone dissh* ; & cast ]>e sauce al hote )>*r-on, and Berae it forth. 

Sauce for stokfysshe in an-other maner. — Take curnylles of walnotys, 
and clouys of garleke, and pip^r, brede, and salf , and caste al in a morter ; 
and grynde it smal, & tempre if up wi)> J?e same broJ>e )>af )>e fysshe was 
sode in, and s*me if for)?e. 

8 Sauce for peiouns. — Take p*rcely, oynouns, garleke, and salf, and 
mynce smal the percely and J?e oynouns, and grynde )>e garleke, and temper it 
wi)> vynegre y-now : and mynce )>e rostid peiouns and cast the sauce )w-on 
a-boute, and sarue if forth. 

1 salt, added in different ink. * If. 36 bk. * If. 37. Heading in margin. 



110 COOKERY BOOK III. ASHMOLE 1439. SAUCES FOR VENISON, ETC. 

Sauce for shulder of moton. — Take parcely, and oynons, and mynce J?em 
and J>e roBtyde shnlder of Moton ; and take vynegre, and poudre gingere, 
salt, and cast* a-pon }e mynced shulder, and ete hym so. 

Sauce vert. — Take parcely, myntes, diteyne, peletre, a f oil or .ij. of* cost*, 
marye, a cloue of garleke. And take faire brede, and stepe it with vynegre 
and pip*r, and salt 1 ; and grynde al this to-gedre, and tempre it vp wij? 
wynegre, or wi]> eisel, and serne if forje. 

Surelle. — Take Surel, wasche hit, grynde it 4 , put* a litil salt 4 , ]w-to, and 
strayne hit 1 , and s*rue iorth. 

Sauce parcely. — Take parcely, and grynde hit* wij? vynegre & a litel 
brede and salt 4 , and strayne it 4 }?urgfi a straynonr, and serne it 4 forje. 

Sauce gauncile. — Take floure and cowe mylke, safroune wel y-grounde, 
garleke, 1 and put in-to a faire litel pot 4 ; and sej?e it 4 ouer J>e fire, and wrue 
it 4 forthe. a 

Pip*r for feel and for venyswn. — Take brede, and frye it 4 in grece, draw 
it vp wi]> broje and vinegre : caste J>er-to poudre pipar, and salt, sette on J?e 
fire, boile it 4 , and melle it 4 for]?e. 

White sauce for capons y-sode. — Take almoundis y-blaunchid, and 
grynde }em al to douste ; tempre it 4 up wi)> verious and poudre of gingere, 
and melle it 4 for]>e. 

Black sauce for capouns y-rostyde.— Take J>e Lyuer of 4 capouns, and 
roste hit wel ; take anyse, and grynde parysgingere, and canel, and a litil 
8 cruste of 4 brede, and grynde hit 4 wefl ati to-gedre; tempre hit up wij? 
verious, and )>e grece of the capon, J>anne boile it 4 and serue for]?e. 

Sauce newe for malardis. — Take brede, and blode y-boilid, and grynde it 
to-gedere, and draw jmrw a cloJ> withe vynegre ; do J>er-to poudre gyngere, 
and piper, and J?e grece of the malarde; salt 4 it 4 and boile, and melle it 
forthe. 

1 peper, tali, added in different ink. 2 with, the goos, added. 8 If. 37 bk. 



Ill 



LAUD MS. 553 (BODLEIAN LIBRARY). 



CONTENTS. 

PAOB 

Peynreguson 112 

Amendment of salt mete- 112 

For to make amydon 112 

Teste de cure 112 

Sweteblanche 112 

[Rischewys close P] 112 

Bukenade 113 

Cyuele 113 

Caudele 113 

Sang sarasir 113 

Eape 113 

Egredouceto 113 

Figee 113 

Pomesmoille 113 

Kys mottles 113 

Apple moys * . . 113 

Soupes dorrees 114 

Peys de almayne 1 14 

Tauorsay 114 

Haddoke in Cynee 114 

Chauudon of fissh 114 

Mortrowe8 of fissh 114 

Blaumangir of fissh 114 

Fotageofris 114 

Numbles 114 



112 



LAUD MS. 553 (BODLEIAN LIBRARY). 



^eynregusofi — Nym resons & do out ye stones, and bray it in a mortar 
with pepir & gingiuw, & salt and wastel bred ; tempre hit with wyn, boille 
hit, dresse hit forth. 

Amendement of salt mete.— Tak a fare lynne clout / & do thtrynne 
a disshful of ote-mele, byne hit, & hange it in thy pot doun to ye boteme. 
Set it from ye fuyr & let hit kele / suththe set hit a$en to ye fuyr / & 
drawe out thy clout & that is goud*. 

For to make amydon). — Nym whete at midsom^r / & salt, & do it in 
a faire vessel / do water tharto, that thy whete be yheled / let it stonde 
ix days & ix nyjt, & eu*ryeday whess wel thy whete / & at ye ix days 
ende bray hit wel in a mortar / & drie hit tojenst ye sonne / do it in a faire 
vessel / & kouere hit fort, thou wil it note. 

Teste de cure. — Nym rys, whas hem / drie hem / & bray hem al to doust 
in a mortar, & amydon th*rwith : tempre it vp with almand mylk / cast 
th^rto poudur and safron / & sugur / nym luys, turbot, and elys / & gobete 
hem in mosselys, & sauge & p*rceli / mak coflyns of thi past / do thy fissh 
th^rynne; cast aboue goud poudwr & su gwr; kerue it, bake it, and jif 
hit forth. 

Sweteblanche. — Nym chikons or hennes, skald hem, drawe hem in 
morselys, & seth hem with good beofe. ujm yolkes of eyren ysoden hard / 
& almande mylk, and grind to-gedere / nym ye floures of ye rede vyne, & 
salt, & bray al in a mortar : boille hit / nym thy chikons or thy hen, ondo 
hem in disshes, do thy sewe aboue / & also myjt thou do fissh days with 
lyuere of turbut or of oth*r manure fissh with almand mylke. 

2 [Byschewys close?]. — Nym flour and eyren, & kned to-gedere /nym figus, 
resons, & data*, & do out ye stonys, & blanchid almandis, & goud poudwr, 
1 If. 5. a If. 53. : seep. 55. 



COOKERY BOOK IV. LAUD 553. (BODLEIAN). CATJDLE, APPLES. 113 

& bray to-gedere / make coffyns of ye lengthe of a spanne / do thy farsour 
thwynne, in euarych cake his porcion) / plie hem & boille hem in water / 
& suththe roste hem on a gridel & jif forth. 

Bukenade. 1 — Nym fressh flessh, what it eiwe be. Seth hit with goud 
beof, cast tharto mynsed oynons & good spicarie, & lie hit with eyren, 
& jif hit forth. 

Cynele — Nym almandes, Sugwr & salt, & payn de mayn, & bray hem in 
a morter / do tharto eyren, frie hit in oylle or in grese, cast th*ron sugwr, 
& jif hit forth. 

Caudele. — Nym eyren, & sweng wel to-gedere / chanf ale & do tharto / lie 
it with amydon), do tharto a porcion) of sugwr, or a p*rty of hony, & a parti 
of safron) ; boille hit, & jif hit forth. 

Sang sarasar. 2 — Tak Almandes, frye hem in oille, & bray hem, tempre hew 
with almand mylke & red wyn, & ye thrudde party shal be sugur / & if hit 
be nojt thikke ynow, lie it with amydon) or with fiowr de rys ; colowr hit 
with alkinet, boille hit, dresse it, fiorissfc hit aboue with pomme-garnet, 
and jif forth. 

Rape. — Nym lnyss or tenge, or othar manure fissh / frye hit in oille de 
olyue; nym crostes of whyt bred, resons, & canele, bray hit, tempre it 
vp with good wyn, drawe it thorw a colonwr / let hit be al ycoloured 
with canele, boille hit, cast tharto clous, maces, and quibibes, do thi fissh in 
thi dissha*, & thi rape aboue, messe hit, & jif forth. 

'Egredonceta*. — Tak luyjs or tenges, kerf hem in mosselis, fri hem in 
oille: nym vynegre / & ye thrudde party sugwr, mynce oynons, & boille 
smal, & clous, maces, & qibibus, & dresse hit forth. 

Figee.— Nym figes, & boille hem in wyn, & bray hem in a mortar with 
lied bred ; tempre hit vp with goud wyn / boille it / do tharto good spicare, 
& hole resons / dresse hit / florisshe it a-boue with pomme-garnet**. 

Pomesmoille. — Nym rys & bray hem in a mortar, tempre hem vp with 
almande milke, boille hem : nym appelis & kerue hem as small as douste, 
cast hem yn after ye boillywg, & sugwr : colowr hit with safron, cast tharto 
goud poudre, & jif hit forth. 

By* moilles. — Nym rys, bray hem, tempre vp with almand mylke : 
boiH hem, cast tharto sugwr / & salt hit, & dresse hit forth. 

Apple moys. —Nym appeles, seth hem, let hem kele, f rete hem thorwe an 
her syue : cast it on a pot / & on a fiess day cast tharto goud fat broth of bef, 

1 MS. Bukenade, * i.e. Sauce Sarrasine. 8 M. 6. 

8 



114 COOKERY BOOK IV. LAUp 553. (BODLEIAN). PEASE, FISH. 

& white grese, sugwr & safron), & on fissh days almand mylke, & oille de 
oliue, & sugw, & safron) : boille hit, messe hit, cast aboue good poudre, & 
jif forth. 

Soupes dorrees. — Nym oynons, mynce hem, frie hem in oille de olyue : 
nym oynons, boille hem with wyn, tost whit bred, & do it in dishes / and 
cast almand mylke th*ron), & ye wyn & ye oynons aboue, & gif hit forth. 

'Peys de almayne. — Nym white peson & boille hem / & thanne tak hem 
vp, & wash hem clene in cold watar, fort that ye holys go of : do hem in a 
clene pot / do wat*r th^rto that hit be a-wese / let hem sethe vppon) colys / 
that ther be no lye / couwe thi pot / that th*r go no breth out / whenno 
hit beth ysode, do hem in a mortar & bray hem smal, tempre hem vp with 
almande milke, & with flour de rys, do tharto safron & salt, & boille hit 
& dresse hit forth. 

Tauorsay. — Nym ye hed of ye codlyng & ye liuere, & pike out ye bones / 
cast th^rto goud poudre of pip*r & gyngiuar, and gif forth. 

Haddoke in Cyuee. — Shal be yopened & ywasshe clene / & ysode & 
yrosted on a gridel ; grind pep*r & saffron), bred & ale / mynce oynons, fri 
hem in ale, & do thirto, and salt : boille hit, do thyn haddok in platweB, & 
thi ciuey aboue, & jif forth. 

Chauudon) of fissh. — Nym ye liuere & ye poke. Seth hit, hakke hit smal / 
grind pep^r '& safron, bred & ale, tempre hit with ye broth / boille hit, do 
salt th^rto, & messe hit forth. 

Mortrowes of fissh. — Tak ye rowys of fissh / & ye liiwe, seth hit, hakke 
hit, grind peper, bred & ale, tempre hit with ye broth : do salt tharto, boille 
hit, & messe hit forth. 

Blaumangir of fissh. — Nym a pond of ris, seth hem fort hit berste, let 
hem kele : cast therto mylk of two pond of almandes / nym ye perch oth*r 
ye loppestere or drie haddok, tese th^rto, and boille hit / cast th^rto sugwr, 
&jif forth. 

Potage of ris. — Nym ye ris, whess hem clene, seth hem fort hit breke: 
let hem kele, do th*rto almand mylke, oth*r of kyn, 2 colour it with safron), 
salt hit, & }if forth. 

Humbles. — Shall be ywhess clene in water & salt, & ysode in water / nym 
[Cetera demnf], 

1 If. 6*. 3 i.e. kine: cow milk. 



115 



EECIPES FROM DOUCE MS. 55, 

Ab. 1450 ad. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE PAOK 

Oyle Soppes lxiij. 115 Bitoreroste Cxj. 116 

Capon en Counfyt .... Cij. 115 Egrettrost Cxij. 116 

Cokentrice ...... Ciij. 115 Plouerrost Cxix. 117 

Crane roste Cvij. 116 Snyterost Cxx. 117 

Fesauntrost Cyiij. 116 Sturgeon buille ou turbntt . . Cxlvj. 117 

Heron rost Cx. 116 Charlette Clxxriij. 117 

% Oyle Soppes. Capitulum lxiiij. — Take and buille mylke, and take 
yolkes of eyren) tryed fro the white, and draw hem ; then cast to the milke 
and hete it, butt lete it nat buille, & ^tyrre it weH tiH it be summe-whate 
thikke : then cast ther-to sugre and salte, and cutt feyre paynemayne in 
soppes, & cast the soppes there-on, & seme it forth in man*r of potage. 

% Capon) en Courtfyt. % Capitulum cij. — Take fressfc broth, and wyn), 
& parsely, & saverey, and a litett sauge, and lete buille to-gedrys: and 
crome ther-to herde a yolkes of eyren) tyH it be weH thykke, and kest 
ther-to pouudre of gyngeu^re y-nogh, & Tortious, and salt, and saffron) ; and 
take a good rosted eapon), & ley hym in a chargeur, & ryse the legges and 
the wynges, butt [set] ham nott fro the body ; and kest on the capon) the 
licowr afl hotte, & s^rue it forth. 

% Cokentrice. % C&pitulum ciij. — Scalde a capon) clen), & smyte hem 
in-to the wast ou^retwarde, and scaude a pygge, and draw hym, & smyte 
hym in the same man*r ; and then sewe the forthyr parte of the capon) and 
the hyndyr parte of the pygge to-gedrys, and the f orther parte of the pygge 
3 and the hynder parte of the capon) to-gedyr : then draw the whyte & the 
yolkes of eyren), and cast ther-to, and svette of a schepa, and saffron), & salt, 
and pouudre of gyngeu*re, and grated brede ; and medle aH to-gedre with thyii 
1 If. 34*. » If. 473. » If. 48. 



116 COOKERY BOOK V, DOUCE 55. ROAST CRANE AND HERON, ETC. 

honde, and putt it in the cokentrice, and putt it on a spite, and roste hem *, 
and endore hem with yolkes of eyreri), and pouudre of gyngetwre, and saffron), 
& ioissh of parsely or malves, & draw hem, and endore hem ati abowte in 
eu^ry party of hym). 

% Crane roste. C&pitulum c.vij. — Take a crane, and cutt hym in the rofe 
of the mouth, and lete him blede to deth : and cast a-wey the blode, and 
schalde hym, & draw hym vndyr the wynge or att the vent, & folde vpp hys 
legges att the kneys vndir the thye; & cutt of the wyngys next iunte the 
body, 1 and lete hym haue hys heuede & hys necke on ; saue take awey the 
wdsyng, a and wynde the necke a-boute the spyte, and bynde hit, & putt 
the bille in the body and the golett ; and reyse the wynges and the legges as 
of a gose ; and yiff Jwu schalt sauce hym, mynce hym fyrst, and sauce hym 
withe pouudre of pepyr, and gyngeuare & mustarde, vynegre & salt, and 
Berne hym forth. 

% Fesaunt rost. C&pitulum cviij. — Lete a fesaunt blode in the mouth, 
and lete hym blede to deth ; & pulle hym, and draw hym, & kutt a-wey the 
necke by the body, & the legges by the kne, & parbuille hym, & larde hym, 
and putt the knese in the vent : and rost hym, & reise hym vpp, hys legges 
& hys wynges, 3 as off an henne; & no sauce butt salt. 

Heron) rost. % C&pttulum ex. — Take an heron), & lete hym blode in the 
mouth as an crane, & scalde hym & draw hym att the vent as a crane ; 
and cutt awey the boon) of the necke, & folde the necke a-boute the * spite, 
and putt the hede ynne att the golet as a crane ; & breke awey the boon) 
fro the kne to the fote, and lete the skyn be stille, and cutt the wyng att the 
Joynte next the body, and putt hem on a spite : and bynde hys legges to 
the spyte with the skynne of the legges, & lete rost, & reyse the legges and 
the wynges as of a crane, and sauce hym with vynegre, and mustard, 
and pouudre of gyngeuere, & sett hym forth. 

% Bitore roste. Cspitulum cxj. — Slee a by tow in the mouth as an 
heron), & draw hym as an henne, and fold vppe hys legges as a crane ; & 
lete the wynges be on, & take the boon) of the 6 necke ati awey as of an 
heron) : & putt the hedde in the golet or in the shuldre, and rost hym ; and 
ryse the legges & the wynges as J>ou dost of an heron, & no sauce butt salt : 
& sett hym forth. 

Egrett rost. C&pitulum cxij. — Breke an egrettes nekke, or cut the rofe 

1 i.e. cut off the wings at the joint next to the body. 

2 If. 50. 3 If. 50*. * If. 51. * If. 51b. 



COOKERY BOOK V. DOUCB 55. SNIPE, STURGEON, CHARLETE. 117 

of hys mouth, as of a crane, & scalde hy m, and draw hym as an henne ; & 
cutt of hys wynges by the body, and the heued & the necke by the body, 
& f olde hys legges as a bitore, & rost hym : & no sauce butt salt. 

If Plotter rost. f Cspitulum Cxix.— Breke the skulle of a plou*re, & 
pull hym drye, and draw hym as a chike, and cutte the legges and the 
wynges by the body, and the heued and necke ati-so, & roste hym, and r*yse 
the legges and wynges as an henne : and no sauce butt salt. 

^f Snyte rost. % Gspituhcm Cxx. — Slee a snyte as a plouird, & lete hys 
necke be hole saue the 1 wesyng; and lete hys heuede be on, and putt it in 
the schuldre, and folde vppe his legges as a crane, & cutt his wynges and 
roste hym, & reyse hys legges and wynges as an henne ; & no sauce butt salt. 

3 ^f Sturgeon) buille on turbutt. % Capttulum Cxlyj. Drawatwrbutt 
or a sturgeon), and chyn) hym, & cutt them) in brode pecis; and buille 
hem in water and salt y-nogh, and s^rue hym forth colde, a pece or too in 
a dissli with verb sauce : and cast persely leves wette in vynegre on hym. 

If Charlete. % Capitulum Clxxviij. — Seth melke yn a pott and cast 
ther-to salt and saffron) ; & hew feyre buttes of calues or of porke small, and 
cast ther-to : and draw the white & yolkes of eyren), and cast to the licour 
when it builleth, and a litett ale, and stirre it tiH it crudde. and yiffe J?ou 
wilt haue it forced, hete milke scaldyng hoote, and cast ther-to rawe yolkes 
of eyren) and poudre of gyngetwre, and sugre & clowes & maces, & lete natt 
fully buille ; and press the cruddes in feyre 8 lenyn) cloth, & lessh it, & ley 
too or thre lesshes in a dissh: & cast the farsyng th^r-on, & serue it 
forth hote. 

1 If 53d. * If . 603. » If. 76. 



119 



GLOSSARY AND INDEX. 



[The following works are referred to : — Forme of Cury ; Liber Cure Cocorum ; 
Ancient Cookeries in Wabneb, Antiquitates Culinaria (1791); Napieb, 
Noble Boke of Cookry (1882) ; R. Holme, Academy of Armory (1678); 
Cotgbave, French Diet. (1611); Godefboy, Diet, de VAnc. Langue 
Franc.-, Mubbay, Eng. Diet. (1885, etc.). The thick type shews 
Recipes that are in this volume ; italics shew recipes in the Banquets, 
but if in inverted commas, the recipe is quoted from another Cookery. 
The spelling of the other Cookeries has been corrected, where needful.] 



A-boue, adv., 14, 17 ; A-bouen, 29 ; 
A-bouyn, 14, 21, 35, 54 ; A-boue, 
prep., 54 ; A-bouyn, 54. Above. 

Aboujte, adv., 73 ; A-bowte, 21, 29, 
31 ; Abought, prep., 78 ; A-bowte, 
31, 54. About ; round. 

Abowe, vb.t., 79. Bow; bend. 

A-brode, adv., Caste al a-brode, 
holdyn a-brode, 7, 92. Abroad ; about; 
stretched out. 

Abyndou», sb., 20. See Amidoun. 

A-chatry, 67. Acatery; provisions 
bought. 

Acord, 8b., Be hys owne acord, of 
itself, 17. 

A-cordant, adj\, 50. Accordant; in 
accordance. 

A-doun, adv., 17, 54; Adown, 7. 
Down. 

A-force, vb.t., with Sugre or hony, 
55, with spices, 29 ; A-force, pp., 3 ; 
A-forse, 17. Afforce ; season, make 
substantial. This is the Fr. enforcer, 
see Porcelle farce enforce, on page 
58. The word enforcer is still used 
of a person growing fat : and force 
is applied in England for fattening 
animals ; see Halliwell. Compare 
next word ; pork and oatmeal being 
used to the Gruel. 



A-forcyd, pp. 1, Charlet a. ryally, 
17 ; Doucettes a., 55 ; Chawettys 
a-forsed, 46 ; Kyde a-Forsyde, 41 ; 
Gruelle a-forsydde, 6. 

Aftyrward, 21, Afterward. 

Ale, s*., 11, 13, 16, 86, Stale Ale, 
12, 96, New ale, 10 ; Sethe Fygys in 
Ale, 43 ; Ale draft, 19, Ale dregs, or 
bottoms ; Ale yeest, 96, Ale jest, 44, 
Ale yeast. 

Alegere, sb., 28. Alegar; ale vinegar. 

Alkenade, sb., 29, 30, 31) 48 ; Alki- 
net, 113. Alkanet. 

Al to-broke, 85, Alle to-broke, 44; 
Al to-choppe, 41, Alle to-choppe, 20, 
34, Alle to-choppyd, 41 ; Alle to-falle, 
32. Quite broken, chopped, etc. 

Allemaundys, sb., 10; Alman), 18; 
Almande mylke, 30, 112 ; Almandys, 
1 ; Caudett de Almondes, 96, Caw- 
delle de Almaunde, 16, see F. of C. 
87, "Cawdel of Almaund rnylk"; 
Almaunde mylke, 11, 14, 21, 26; 
Almaundis, 56; Almaundys, 9, 13, 
15, 16, Fride Creme of A., 7, 91, 
see F. of C, No. 85, "Creme of 
Almaundes, 11 Waenee, p. 69, " Crem 
of almonde mylk " ; Almondes, 88, 
90, 91, Froyte de almondes, 91, 
Froyde almoundys, 7, Cheaut de 



120 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOKS. 



Almondes, 96, see Napier, p. 76, 
" Hoot milk of a." and " Cold mylk 
of a.," also Douce MS. No. 160. 
" Chaud let dalmandes." Almonds. 

Almaunden, adj., 17. Almond; of 
almonds : there should be no comma 
after it. 

Almaynne, Hagas de, 44, Hagas de 
almondes 84 ; Bruet of Almaynne, 
19, Bruet of A. in. lente, 19 ; 
Peys de Almayne, 114. These are 
possibly all German dishes, but 
Allemagne and Almonds got con- 
founded, as in the first two recipes, 
which are the same dish, and have 
almonds in them. 

Almonds, see Allemaundys. 

Along, adv., Datys y-taylid a-long, 
lengthwise, 27. 

Aloes de Boo, 61 ; Allowes de Mutton, 
83 ; Alows de Beef or de Motown, 
40 ; Alowys, 3. See Warner, p. 
74, " Alaunder of moton" and "of 
beef"; Napier, p. 29, "Alander de 
moton* 1 p. 30, "Alander de beef" 
Cotgr., " A loyau de bosuf. A short 
rib of beefe, or the fleshie end of 
the rib, diuided from the rest, and 
rosted." Compare a mutton-chop. 

A-lye, vb.t., 13, 17, 19. Allay; 
mix : Fr. Allayer, Cotgr. See Ly. 

Amendement of salt mete, 112. 

Amidons, sb., 16 ; For to make 
Amydon, 112 ; Amyndons, 22 ; 
Amyndoun, 28. Fr. Amidon, Wheat 
flour, steeped, strained, and dried in 
the sun : see L.C.C., p. 7, Napier, 
p. 101. 

A-morwe, 33, 37. Amorrow; next 
morning. 

An, conj.j passim. And. 

Anewarcl, adv., 34. Onward ; on it. 

Aneys, sb., 53 ; in comfyte, 32 ; Anys 
in comfyte, 8, 10, 28. Anise. 

Apon, prep., 92. Upon. 

Appeles, 8b., 113; Appelis, 113; 
Appelys, 16, 20 ; Appil, 38 ; Apple 
mose, 2, or Apple muse, 20 ; Apple 
moys, 113 ; see Warner, II. 17, 35, 
Prompt. Parv., p. 13, " Apvlmos," 
"Appulmos," Napier, p. 121, "Ap- 
pillmose " ; compare " Mush, Any- 
thing mashed," Halliwell. Apple 



moyle, 30, Pomesmoille, 113, called 
"Appvlmoy" in F. of C, No. 79, 
"Pommes moiled," or "molid" in 
Napier, p. 119, and " Pommys mov- 
ies? in Warner, p. 46, on which 
page there is also "Rys (Rice) moyle," 
(called "Resmolle" in F. of C, 96). 
The moyle, or morles, is the French 
Mol, Mode, soft. Applys, 29, 30, 39. 

Applade Byalle, 30. So called from 
the apples in it : compare Quynade. 

Appraylere, 39. See Cotgr., " Ap- 
pareilU', dressed, cooked, or seasoned, 
(as meat)." This dish is well spiced. 

Arbolettys, 20 ? Fr. Herbelettes, Small 
herbs ; see F. of C, No. 172, " Erbo- 
lates." The dish is spelt Arbelettys 
in A. See Herbelade. 

AsmaR, 95. As small. 

A-to, 5, 22, 40. In two. 

Auence, sb., 5 ; Auens, 69. Avens ; 
Bennet. 

A-wese, 114, A -wash. See Over- 
wose, and note 4 on p. 86. 

A;en, adv., 53, Again : Ajenward, 
adv., 54. Once more. 

Bacon, see Bahon. 

Bake Mete, 54 ; Bake Mete Byalle, 

66 ; Bake Metis, 47. Baked Meat. 
Baken, vb., 54. Bake. 
Bakke, sb., 41. Back. 
Bakon, sb., 6; Bakoun, 32. Baeon. 
Bakyn mete, 33. Baked meat. 
Balloke brothe, 10, 89. See F. of C. f 

No. 109, Warner, p. 68, Napier, 

p. 86. This broth is called "Bctiowgly 

broth " in Warner, p. 49. 
Banquets, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 

63, 67, 68. See Forewords. 
Barbel, 104 ; Barbell boyled, 104. 
Barlyche, sb., 37. Barley. 
Bastard, sb., 37. A sweet Spanish 

Wine. See Ord. & Reg., p. 473. 
Bastard, adj., 13, 21, 22. 
Basyn, sb., 34. Basin. 
Bater, sb., 54, 73; Batur, 73; Bature, 

15, 38, 54 j Baturys, 39. Batter. 
Baude, vb.t., 76, 105; Bawde, 18, 

70. Cut in thin slices ; Fr. border. 
Be, prep., 18, 23, 26. By. 



GLOSSARY AND INDEX. 



121 



Beef y-Stywyd, 6, Stwed Beeff, 72 ; 

Bef, 34, Stekys of venson or bef, 40; 

Beff, 1, 5 ; Beofe, 112. 
Be-helyd, pp., 37. Beheled ; covered. 
Be-hynde, prep., 14. Behind. 
Ben, vb., 19, 26, 27. Been; be. 
Benecodde, sb., 48 ; Bene koddys, 43. 

Bean-cod. 
Beof, sb., 113; Beofe, 112. Beef. 
Berde, sb., 39. Beard ; brim. 
Bere, sb., 49. Bear. 
Berme, sb., 44, 52, 73, 90. Barm; 



Betayli, sb., 69. Betony. 

Bete, sb., 5 ; Betus, 69. Beet : Beets. 

Bete, vb.,t. b. to-gedere (in cooking), 
39. Beat. 

Beterr*, adj., 33. Better. 

Be-twene, prep., 39; Be-twyn, 39, 54. 
Between. 

Bey, vb. f 27. Be. 

Birdys, Smal, 1, 55 ; Bryddys, 9 ; 
Smal Byrdys, 52, Smale Byrdys 
y-stwyde, 9. 

Bitore roste, 116; Bytor rosted, 79. 
Bittern : Fr. Butor. See Bytor. 

Bittern, see Bitore. 

Bladys, sb., of Percely, 35 ; Barlycbe 
& Percely, 37. Blades. 

Blake, adj., with Blode, 38; Blak 
sugur, 91, Blake sugre, 7, 28, 51. 
Black. 

Blamang, 21, (Flesh), Blamanger, 86, 
(Flesh), see Douce MS., No. 26. 
Warner, IL No. 14 and No. 33, and 
p. 75, L.C.C. p. 9, F. of C, No. 36 
and No. 192, Napier, p. 102, "B. of 
flesche " ; Blamanger of Fysshe, 23, 
114, see L.C.C., p. 19, Napier, p. 
Ill, Warner, p. 46 ; see also p. 55, 
"Blaumanger to potage;" Blaman- 
gere, 2. Blancmange ; Blancmanger. 

Blanche, adj., B. almondes, 90. 
Blanched. 

Blanche, vb.t., 20; Blaunche, 19; 
Blawnche, 7, 9. Blanch : whiten. 

Blanche Porrey, 90; made of the 
white of leeks: see Ducange, 
"Porrecta, Jusculum ex pons con- 
fectum," (also Porrata.) See Pereye. 

Blandesore, 68; Blandissorye, 9; 
Blaunde Sorre, 84 ; Blaundysorye, 



21 ; Blaundyssorye, 2. See Warner, 
p. 55, " Blaundesore to potage," Na- 
pier, p. 35, " Bland sorre, p. 105, 
"Blank de Sirre" ; F. of C, No. 37, 
"Blank Dessorre," 193, "Blank De- 
sire"; Warner, II. 29, "Blank 
surry," p. 47, Blank de Sure, and 
p. 49, "Blank de Syry"; L.C.C., p. 12, 
"Blonk desore." With regard to 
Blaundesorre, see Warner, p. 75. 
It is made with Blaunche Mortrewes, 
by setting leches of that dish in syrup 
made of wine and spices. The latter 
part of the word seems to indicate 
the saffron or sorrel colour. Fr. 
"Sor4, Reeked, made red," Cotgr. 
Blank powder, 15 ; Blanke pouder, 

15, 19 ; Blaunche powder, 27, 37 ; 
Blawnche powder, 11, 24 See Cotgr., 
" Pouldre blanche, a powder com- 
pounded of Ginger, Cinnamon, and 
Nutmegs ; in use among Cookes." 

Blaunche perry, 33, Blaunche Per- 
reye, 32, Blawnche Perrye, 14 ; 
Blaunche de ferry, 27 ; Blaunche 
brawen, 34, Blaunche brawne, 71, 
See Douce MS., No. 49. 

Blaunchid, adj., 10,38; Blawnchyd, 
21. Blanched. 

Blaunderellys, 59. 

Blode, sb., 8 ; late blode, let blood, 
52 ; lete blode, 78. 

Bokenade, Vele, kede, or henne in, 
13 ; AutreTele in b., 13 ; see F. of 
C, N. 118, Warner, No. 52, Napier, 
p. 25, (Veal) ; Bukenade, 113, and 
Buknade, 85, (two recipes,) see F. 
of C, No. 17, "Bukkenade," Warner, 
II. No. 45, Douce MS., No. 76 and 
No. 77, (Various ^eats) ; L.C.C., 
p. 12, and Napier, p. 105, (Fat 
Pork); see also Warner, p. 54, 
" Bukenade to potage." 

Bolas, 24; Lorey de Boolas, 25; 
Bolasse, 24. Bullace. 

BoH, sb., 74 ; Bolle of tre, 7, BoH of 
tre, 92, Bowl of wood ; Treen bolle, 

16, 95 ; Bolle, 20. 

Bonte, sb., Crees bonte or bunte, 38, 
Linen sieve : compare Crescloth, in 
Halliwell. 

Bonys, sb., 6, 55. Bones. 

Borage, 5, 8; Burage, 92. 



122 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOKS. 



Bord, sb. f 7. Board. 

Bore, sb., 49, Boar. The here in line 3 
of No. xij, p. 49, should be bore. 

Boteme, 112. Bottom. 

Boter, sb., 8, 20, 42 ; Botere, 42, 53 ; 
Botter, 51. Butter. 

Botmon, sb., 55; Botmond, 38. 
Bottom. 

Bottes of motoun, 40. See Buttes. 

Bourreys, 70,*Bowreg, 8; see L.C.C., 
p. 37, " Bows," Napier, p. 120. This 
dish is similar to " Burseu," F. of C, 
No. 11, and to "Bursews," No. 179, 
and is spelt "Bousoun" in Douce 
MS., No. 42 (Bosoun in the Text). 
This seems to oe the Fr. Bourse, and 
(in two cases) the Italian diminutive 
Borsella, or the French Bourseau, see 
Cotgr. : Godefroy has the diminu- 
tive Boursault. The dish consists of 
small purse-like rissoles or pommes, 
in the last recipe in F. of C. : in the 
others there are gobbets. Compare 
Potews, F. of C, No. 177, made in 
Pots, and Sachus, No. 178, made in 



Box leves, 35. 

Boyle, pp., 7 ; Boylede, 8. Boylid, 
9. Boiled. 

Boyling, sb., 17. 

Brasele, 20. See Cotgr., " Brasille : 
Rosted, broyled, or boyled with a 
quicke fire." 

Braunchys, 23. Branches. 

Brawn en Peuerade, 11, 12, Brawne 
in peuard, 71, see Douce MS., No. 
47, Warner, p. 79 ; Brawn in com- 
fyte, 34, 71, see Douce MS., No. 
48 ; Blaunche Brawen, 34, 71, see 
Napier, p. 99, Douce MS., No. 49 ; 
B. of Capoun, 10, 19 : Brawune 
fryej, 43, see Douce MS., No. 6; 
Browne in egurdouce, 71, see 
Warner, p. 79, "Boor in egredouce," 
called Braun en peueruade, in Douce 
MS., No. 56. It is, however, to be 
noticed that the Recipe gives Browne 
here, as below, and changes the and, 
in first line in Douce MS., to or. 
Broke braune, 68 ; Braune with 
Mustard, 68. 

Bray, vb.t., (in mortar), 16, 109. 

Bread, see Bred. 



Bred, sb., 19; Brede, 8, 14, 18, 80, 
84, Brown brede, 108, white brede, 
109. Bread. 

Brede, sb., they peny brede, th$ 
penny's breadth, 7. The Recipe on 
p. 82^ and Douce MS., No. 4, read 
two (y, and too), not the : A. reads the. 

Breke, vb. tr. & intr., let sethe tyl it 
breke, 7 ; breke brede, 8. Break. 

Brekyn, vb. intr., 23. Break. 

Brekyng, sb., 52. Breaking. 

Breme or Roche boiled, 103, see 
Douce MS., No. 138 ; Breme rost en 
sauce, 103, in Table of Douce MS., 
as No. 139, but omitted in the text : 
see Napier, p. 70, "Breme in Sauce." 

Brennyd brede, 18. Burnt bread. 

Brennyng hote, 53. Burning hot. 

Brerde, sb., 48. Rim. 

Brest de motton in sauce, 85, see 
Douce MS., No. 86, Napier, p. 68. 
Breast of Mutton. 

Breste, vb.int., 5. Burst. 

Brewe rosted, 79, see Douce MS., 
No. 114, Napier, p. 63. Mr. Swain- 
son kindly notes that he imagines 
this bird to be the Whimbrel, which 
was called the Brame or Brume in 
East Anglia. See Murray. 

Brewes, 11, 32; Brewes in Lentyn, 
29 ; Browes, 32, 90 ; Schyconys with 
Je bruesse, 32, see F. of C, 33; 
Brwes, 30, Brwes in lentyn, 33. 
Brewis. 

Brinkes, 75, 76, Rims. 

Brocche, sb., 82; Broche, 89; vb.t, 
39, 40, 106. Broach ; spit. 

Broth, Venyson in, 10, 70, see Douce 
MS., No. 38 ; Muscules in Broth, 
90, see Douce MS., No. 78 ; Balloke 
Brothe, 10, 89, Douce MS., No. 34 ; 
Storion in b., 13, Sturgeon in b., 
104, see Douce MS., No. 80 ; Mighty 
brothe of Beef or of Capoun, 12. 

Browne, vb.int., 38. Brown; turn 
brown. 

Browne fryes, 83 : thisreceipe makes 
brown bread of the Dish : Harleian 
MS. 279, and Douce MS., J>5, have 
Brawune frye) and Braun Frye), 
respectively, and omit brede: see 
above. 



GLOSSARY AND INDEX. 



123 



Bruet of Almaynne, 19, see Warmer 
II. 31, F. of C, 47, "Brewet of 
Almony," Warner, p. 55, "Blauncne 
bruet of Almayn," and pp. 55, 77, 
"Browet of Almayne," L.C.C., p. 11, 
"Breuet de almonde," Napier, p. 105, 
" Bruet de almonds " ; " Allemagne " 
apparently getting perverted to 
"Almonds " : Bruet of Almaynne in 
lente, 19; Bruette Sareson, 19; 
Hennys in b., 18, see Napier, p. 
114 ; Oystrys in b'., 23 ; Walkya in 
b., 23 ; Tenche in b., 23 ; Ohykonys 
in b., 23, see L.C.C., p. 22 ; Muskelys 
in b., 24, see F. of C, No. 122; 
B. saake, 27, see Warner, p. 78, 
"Browet seeks" ; Bruet If on amy, 68 ; 
see Napier, p. 32. This is 'boiled 
cream, boiled again with brayed 
ourds, honey, and butter : thickened 
with yolks of egg, and leched. 
Brwet, 21. See Cotgr., "Brouet: 
Potage, or broth; also, any liquor, 
podge, or sauce, of the thicknesse, 
or consistence of that whereof our 
pruine-tarts are made." Napier, 
p. 34, has also " Eles in Bruet" as 
also Warner, pp. 68, 85. 

Bryndons, 15, and Bryndonys. It 
seems as if this were Bryndous, as 
it is glossed bryneeus in margin of 
A., and the form brendouse (more 
likely u than Jt) occurs there, and is 
glossed lozenges': but it is not the 
dish called "Brymeus" in F. of C, 
though that is probably the same 
word, and ought to be printed 
"Brynieus." 

Bryse, vb.t., 6. Bruise. 

Bryth, adj., 12. Bright; glowing in 
colour, 

Bukenade, 113, see Bokenade. 

Bullace, see Bolas. 

Butt** of Porke, 53, 54, 76; Buttys of 
Vele, 14, 48, of Calf or of Porke, 17, 
85, Porke, 44 Butts, buttocks. 

Butter, sb., 73; Buttur, 83. See 
Boter. 

Buttry, ad/., 75. Buttery; soft as 
butter. 

By-clippe, vb.t. 48. Beclip. 

Bynde vppe flat with flowre of rys, 

. Bynd vppe with Flow of Rys, ofer 



witA whetyn floure, 33. Make stiff : 

see Murray, Bind, 10. 
Byne, vb.t, 112. Bind; tie. 
Bytor rosted, 79, see Douce MS., 

No. 111. Napier, p. 62, " Bittur 

Most" Bittern. 
Bytyng, adj., of Pepir, 40. Biting ; 

hot, stinging. 
By wese, 24 : compare Wese in Douce 

MS., Recipe 174 Skaldyd by wese 

seems to meau "just a- wash," or 

hardly covered. Compare ouer-wewyd, 

on p. 25, which is used in same sense, 

and see A-wese. 

Caas, sb., in caas, 96. In case. 

Cabbage, see next. 

Cabochis, 69, Caboges, 6, 33; see 
Warner, pp. 52, 75, Douce MS., 
No. 173. This is the French Caboche, 
Head, which is still used in the 
Channel Islands for Cabbage. 

Cacche, vb. int., 26. Catch; stick: still 
used in this signification in cookery, 
of meat, etc., when burnt to the pan. 

Cakys, sb. t 15. Cakes. 

Calf, 17 ; Calfesfete, 37; Caluys fete, 
25 ; Calvis, 85. 

Canel, sb., 6, 7, 8, 9, 13; Canele, 
113 ; CaneH, 92, 95, Floure of CaneH, 
71; Canelle, 12, 13, 14, 20. Fr. 
Cannelle, Cinnamon. 

Canvas, sb., 20, 27, 41 ; Canneuas, 39, 
Canvas (for straining). 

Capon, 2 ; Capons stwed, 72 ; Capon 
en Connfyt, 115, see Warner, p. 56; 
Capoun in Consewe, 18, see Warner, 
II. 6, and F. of C, No. 22, " Capons 
in Coney," and see Consewe, below ; 
Capoun in Salome, 33; Capoun or 
gos farced, 41, Goce or Capon farced, 
81, see Douce MS., No. 36 ; Capons 

. of hie grece, 67, Capoun de haut grece, 
57, i.e. crammed; Capoune bro)?e, 
31 ; Capounys, 21. 

Carpeis of Veneson, 68. 

Carpys, sb., 21. Carps. 

Cas, sb., 25. Case. 

Cast, vb.t., 25; Caste, 12, 25; Caste 
vppe out of a potte, 34 

Caudel Ferry departed with a bla- 
manger, 31; CaudeH Fery, 91, 



124 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOKS. 



Cawdelle Ferry, 16, see F. of C., 
No. 41, L.C.C., p. 16, Warner, pp. 
82, 83, " C. ferres," Douce MS., No. 
90, Napier, p. 32, p. 33, "0. Ferrens," 
and p. 109 ; Caudele, 113, CaudeH, 
96, see Douce MS., No. 183, L.C.C., 
p. 51 ; Cawdelle de Almaunde, 16, 
Caudell de Almondes, 96, see Douce 
MS., No. 159, L.C.C., p. 15, " C. 
dalmone," Napier, p. 81, " C. of 
Almondes," p. 108, "0. dalmond," 
F. of C, No. 87, "Cawdel of Almaund 
mylk" ; Cawdel out of lente, 33; 
" Caudel rennyino," is also in War- 
ner, p. 82. Caudle; Old Fr. Can- 
deUe. 

Cauderoun, sb., 39. Caldron. 

Cesofl, vb.t., 69, 70, 85. Season. 

Ceuere, vb.t., 8, 48, Ceuyr,39. Cover; 
see Keuer. 

Chaaf, vb.t., 85 ; Chafe, 37. Warm. 

Chafer, Chafere, sb., 44 ; Chaffre, 93 ; 
Chaffur, 93 ; Chafoure, 16. Chauffer 
(for heating). 

Chared Coneys, or chardwardon, 106, 
Chardequynce, 12, 13; Charde- 
wardon, 12, 88, see Douce MS., No. 
53 ; Napier, p. 81 ; Chare de war- 
doun leche, 37 ; Lange Wortys de 
chare, 5, see Douce MS., No. 1 ; 
Gelye de Chare, 25 ; Lesynges de 
C, 44, see Douce MS., No. 74; 
Tartes de C, 47, see Douce MS., No. 
45 ; Mortreus de C, 70, see Douce 
MS., No. 81 ; Oraund chare, 57 ; 
Orosse chare, 58. Fr. Chair, Flesh : 
compare flesh of a Melon. 

Charge de quyns, 88. .Charedequince. 

Chargeaunt, ad/., 16, 18, 19, 30, C. 
Mylke of Almaundys, 27. Stiff, 
thick. 

Chargeauntly, adv., 27. Stiffly* 

Charger, sb., 101; Chargere, 52; 
Chargeowr, 78, 109 : Chargeoure, 23. 
Large dish. 

Charlette, 17, 117, seeDouceMS., 178, 
F. of C, 39, L.C.C., p. 11, Napier, 
p. 104, and p. 121, Warner, pp. 82, 
88 ; L.C.C., p. 11, " Charier and 
"0. {coloured." Charlet a-forcyd 
ryally, 17, see Napier, p. 29, 
"Charlet forced," F. of C, No. 40, 
U C. yforced" Warner, p. 82, 



" Charlet enforsed!* Charlette is the 
Fr. Chair laitU, Le. Flesh with Milk ; 
and is now spelt Charlotte. 

Chaudewyne,95, Ghawdwyn,76,Chau- 
doutt,108, Chaundonof fi8sh,114 ; see 
Douce MS., Nos. 41, 163, "Chaudyn? 
Napier, p. 49, and p. 103, " Chau- 
dron for swan," also F. of C, No. 143, 
L.C.C., p. 9, and Warner, p. 65, 
" Chaudern for swannes " ; F. of C, 
No. 115, Chawdonfor Lent, Napier, 
p. 88, Chaudron for Samon, and p. 
90, Chaudron ofptggsfeet. Chawdron; 
entrails. 

Chawettis, 3; Chawettys Fryidde, 45, 
C. a-forsed, 46, Chawettys, 48, (two 
Recipes,) Chewettea, 98. See Douce 
MS., Nos. 50, 156, L.C.C., p. 41, 
"Chewetes," Napier, p. 55, "Che- 
wettes of beef," " C. ryaUe," p. 56, " C. 
on fishe dates," for which see also 
L.QC, p. 41, and F. of C, No. 186 ; 
Warner, p. 65, " Chowettes onflesshe 
day," for which see also F. of C, 
No. 185, and L.C.C., p. 41. In 
Good Huswifes Handmaide for the 
Kitchin, (1594), If. 39, it is used for 
the lump or cake of paste for a tart, 
"Make two Chewets as you would 
make two tarts." R. Holme, Armory, 
III. iii. 82, says, " Chewit, or small 
pie ; minced or otherwise." 

Chek, Chick, 81. See Chih 

Chekens endored, 68, see Chik; 
Chekynes, 86. Chickens. 

Chekyr, sb., 49, 50. Checker. 

Chepe, sb., 7 ; Chepis, 38, 39. Sheep. 

Chese, sb., 20, grene chese, 48: 
Chesefatte, 36, Cheese press. 

Chesmeyne, 60. ? Jessamine. 

Chete, vb.t., 34* Set. 

Cheueyne, 60. 

Chicken : see Chekens, Chik, Chykenys. 

ChjUk farsed, 81; Chike endored, 
81, see Napier, p. 66; also see 
Chykenys. 

Chop, see Alhwes. 

Choppe, vb.t., 13. Chop. 

Chykenys, sb., 25; Chykons in 
dropeye, 30 ; Chykonys, 2, 19, 55 ; 
Chykonysinbruette,23; Schyconys 
with J?e bruesse, 32. Chickens. 



GLOSSARY AKD INDEX. 



125 



Chyne, sb., 102, Chine, back: Chyne 

bon, 103, Chine-bone. 
Chyne, vb.t, 102, 104. Chine, 

chop, 
hyrioun, 2 ; Chyryoun, 29, see F. of 

C, No. 58, Chyrwse, Warmer, p. 47 ; 

Chyryis, 29. Cherries. 
Cinnamon, see Canel. 
Ciprys, Cyprys, Vyaund de, 21, 28. 

Cyprus. 

Ciuey, 114, see Cyuey. 

Clarey, sb., 93 ; Clareye, 35 ; Clarre, 
93; Clerye, 35. Clarry; aromatic 
-wine. See note in Warner, p. 90. 

Clarifi, vb.t., 35. Clarify. 

Clarifiyd, adj., hony, 12, 15, 22, 35 ; 
Claryfiyd Boter, 53. Clarified. 

Clees, 102, Claws. 

Clene, ado., c. chargeaunt, 30; c. 
rennyng, 31. Clean ; quite. 

Cleuey, vb.int., 21. Cleave; stick. 

Cleuyng, sb., 42. Cleaving ; sticking. 

Close, vb.t., 45, 46. 

Clofe, sb., 17, 19. Cloth. 

Cloues, sb., 80, 82 ; Clone, Clouys of 
garleke, 110 ; Clous, 113 ; Clowes, 6, 
10, 13, 15, 91, Pouder of Clowes, 97 ; 
Clowys, 8, 9, 10, 13, 35. Cloves : 
Fr. clou. 

Clowte, sb., 37. Clout ; cloth. 

Clowty, adj., 53. Clotty. 

Clowtys, 8b., 47. Clouts, clots (of 
cream). 

Codelynge, Trype of Turbut or of, 18 ; 
Codlynd, 11 ; Haddok or codlyng, 
104, see Douce MS., No. 144, 
"Haddok oucodlyngbuille" ; Codlyng, 
2, 10, 14 ; Codlyngis, 16. Codling. 

Codling, see Codelynge. 

Coffyn, sb., 74, 93, Coffvns, 73; 
Cofyn, Cofynne, 47 ; Cofyns, 45, 55 ; 
Cofynnys, 53. Coffin; crust of a 
pie. 

Cokentrice, 115; Cokyntryce, 40; 
Cokyntryche, 62. See Warner, p. 
66, "Cokagrys," R of C, No. 175, 
Cocagres ; which form is made up 
of Cock, and Orys or Oris, pig, the 
animals which jointly make up the 
dish. 

Cole, vb.t, 107. Cool. 

Coleys, 10. See Warner, II. 11, 



u Colusf also p. 80, tt Cofys of /tosA * ; 
L.C.O, p. 20, "Kolys"; Napier, p* 
112, "CoOes." Ft. "ComUs : A cullis> 
or broth of boiled meat strained ; fit 
for a sicke, or weake bodie," Cotqr. 

Colonur, 113. Cullender. 

Colonre, vb.t., 7. Colour. 

Colpons, sb., 89. Coupons; slices. 

Colouryd Sew without tyre, 20; see 
Napier, p. 3a 

Colons, *b., 109. Colys, 17, 29, 54, 
114. Coals. 

Colys, sb., 69. Coles : cabbages. 

Comad, sb., 56 ; Comade, 42, 46, 48, 
50, 51, 55, 56; Commade, 48, 54, 
Mixture. The word is used in F. of 
C, 113 ; and is spelt Commode in A. 

Come to-gederys, 45. Unite; come 
to one consistence. 

Comfyte, sb., Anys in c, Anise pre- 
served in sugar, 8, 10, 32 ; Brawn 
in comfyte, 34 : see Warner, p, 59, 
"Bor in counfett," and p, 79, "Boor 
in confiih " ; Datys in comfyte, 63 ; 
Sugre in confyte, 32, where A. reads 
" Sugre of confitens." 

Commelyche, adj., 34. Comely, 
seemly. 

Compost Potage, 59, see L.C.C., p. 18. 

Composte, Perys en, 12, 87: soe 
Napier, p. 100, Douce MS., No. 57. 
See also Cotgr. : " Composte : a 
pickled, or winter Sallet of hoarbos, 
fruits or flowers, condited in vinegar, 
salt, sugar or sweet wine." 

Confeccions, 88, Confeotions; pre- 
serves. 

Congere, sb. f 14; Congre, 59; boo 
Napier, p. 73, " Congur." Conger- 
eel. 

Consewe, Capoun in, 18. This scorns 
the same as Capon in Concis, see F. 
of C, 22, Warner, II. 6. L.C.C., p. 
24, " Capons in Conisye." Napier, 
p. 116, " Capon in conns" Concis, 
again, seems to be the same word as 
Qanse or Oauncely, and no Oauncely 
is mentioned in either of the above. 

Coney, see next. 

Conyng, 80, see Napier, p. 64, Douce 
MS., No. 116, " Cony rost." Conyng, 
Mawlard, in gely or in cyuey, 14, 



126 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOKS. 



Oonyng, hen, or Mallard, 80, see 
Douce MS., No. 68, "Cony, gelyn, 
ou malar 'd en oyle, n Napier, p. 79, 
" Cony or malard in eevy ; " 
Conyng in Gravey, 80, Oonyngys 
in graueye, 18, see Warner, 
II. 10, p. 58, and p. 78, F. of 
C, No. 26, L.C.C., p. 8, Douce MS., 
No. 66, Napier, p. 101 ; Oonyngys 
in cyveye, 20, see F. of C, No. 25, 
L.C.C., p. 20, Napier, p. 112, War- 
ner, p. 59, and p. 78 ; Conyng or 
hen in clene broth, 80, (" clere broth " 
in Douce MS., No. 67), see Warner, 
p. 59, F. of C.« No. 66, which both 
read " Conynges in clere broth " ; 
Cony; O. Fr., Connin. Holme, 
Armory, II. vii. 132, says — " A cony 
is a rabbit after the first year ; the 
animal being a rabbit till the end of 
the first year." 

Coputi, 8b., 67. Couple. 

Corances, Corauns. Currants. See 
Rasonys. 

Core, sb., 51 ; Corys, 24, 30. 

Corkes, sb., 106. Cokes, Cores. 

Costardys, sb., 47. Costards: (apples). 

Costt-marye, 110, herb. 

Cours, Course, sb., 49. Layer. 

Cowehe, vb., 44. Couch ; lay. 

Cowe Mylke, 29, 110. 

Coynes, 106, Quinces. 

Crabbe or Lopster boiled, 102, see 
Douce MS., No. 134, Napier, p. 70 ; 
Crabbe au Creueys, 59 ; Crabbys, 28. 

Crane, rosted, 78, 116, see L.C.C., 
p. 35, Napier, p. 61. 

Crayfish, see Creue). 

Crees, 38. Compare " Creschth, Fine 
linen cloth," Halliwell. 

Cream, see next. 

Crem de Colonre, 20 ; Creme, 2, 8, 
10, Fride C. of Almaundys, 7, 91, 
see Douce MS., No. 12, Warner, p. 
69, " Crem of AlmondemyUc? Napier, 

6, 42, "Creme of Almonds"', C. 
oylede, 8, 92, see Warner, pp. 69, 
82, Douce MS., No. 13, Napier, p. 
32, "Creme buyle;" C. Bastarde, 
33; Creme Moundy, 62 ; Creme Vine 
69, ? Cream with wine over it. 
Creme, vb.t., 93. Crimme ; crumble, 
see Kreme. 



Creuej, sb., 49; Creueys, 59. See 
Holme, Armory, II. xiv. 338, 
"Crevice, or Crefish," (crayfish); 
O.F. Crevice, Mod. Fr. Ecrevisse. It 
includes Lobsters. 

Crodde, sb., 17 ; Croddes, 36, 43, 73 ; 
Croddys, 36, 56 ; Cruddes, 86 ; 
Cruddis, Cruddys, 53. Curd. 

Crodde, vb. int., 17; Croddith, 92; 
Crudde, 86, 92. Curd ; curdle. 

Croraej, sb., 53; Cromys, 33, 52. 
Crumbs. 

Cromyd Marow, 55. Crumbed 
(crumbled) marrow. • 

Croppe of netle, 69. Young top. 

Crostes, 113, see Cruste. 

Crouste, vb.int., 82. Crust over. 

Crowne, sb., 52. Crown. 

Cruddes, see Crodde. 

Crustade, 50,. 65, Cnstarde, 74, see 
Douce MS., No. 22, Warner, p. 65, 
" Crustade," L.C.C., p. 40, F. of C, 
No. 154, " Crustardes of Flessh," F. 
of C, No. 156, "Crustardes of Fysshe ;" 
Crustade lumbard, 61, Custard 
lumbarde, 74, see Napier, p. 53, 
" Custad lombard," Douce MS., No. 
23.; Crustade Ryal, 56, 68; C. 
gentyle, 56 ; Napier, p. 54, has also 
a " Custad opyne," i.e. open. Florio, 
1659 ed., "Crostdta, the crust or 
coffin of a pie, a pastie, a custard, a 
tart, any land of crusty meat, any 
pie or pastie-crust, any meat drest 
upon tostes or crusts." 

Cruste, sb. r 53; Crustys of whyte 
brede, 30 ; Cruste Rolle, 46. 

Cryspej, 44, Cryspes, 93, see F. of C, 
No. 162, " Cryspes; 1 No. 163, " Cry- 
spels," Douce MS., No. 61, " Crispes," 
Warner, II. No. 26, "Cryppys"; 
Cryspis, 3. Cotgr., "Crepez, ou Ore- 
pets : Fritters ; also, Wafers." Mod. 
Fr. Cripe. 

Culpe, vb.t., 48. Cut in thick slices : 
Fr. Couper. 

Curlewe rosted, 79, see Douce MS., 
No. 113 ; Curlewys, 57. 

Curnylles, 109, Kernels. 

Custard, see Crustade. 

Cyprys, Cyprus, see Vyand. 

Cytte, vb.t., 5. Cut. 



GLOSSARY AND INDEX. 



127 



Cyuele, 113. 

Cyuey, cyvey, 49; Gonyng, Maw- 
lard, in gely or in cyuey, 14, see 
Napier, p. 79, " Cony or malard in 
cevy," Warner II. No. 51, " Mallard 
in cyuey " ; Harys in Cyueye, 18, 
Tenche in c, 23, see Napier, p. 80, 
Conyngys in cyueye, 20. Moo. Fr. 
Civet or Give". Stew with chives. 



Dace, 20. 

Darioles, 63, Dariolles, 75 ; Daryoles, 
47, 55, 56 ; see Douce MS., No. 71, 
L.C.C., p. 38, "Darials," F. of C, 
No. 183, "Daryols" Napier, p. 56, 
" Daryolites," Warner, p. 66, " Da- 
ryalus." See Cotgr., "Darioles, 
Small pasties filled with flesh, hearbes, 
and spices, mingled and mixed to- 
gether." 

Dates, sb., 33, 88, 94 ; Datis, 24, 53; 
Datys, 12, 15, 16, 19, D. in comfyte, 
63. 

Defaute, sb., of def., 22. in def., 29 ; 
in defawte, 20, for d., 41. Default. 

Degre, sb., 36. Degree; pitch (of 
colour). 

Del, Dele, sb., 21, to del jolkys of 
eyron, 21 ; A gode dele Salt, 15, i.e. 
of Salt. Deal ; portion. 

Departe, vb.t., 21 ; Gely Departed, 
69, compare the Recipe on p. 31 ; 
Departyd, 31. Depart; part into 
shares; split. 

Dewte, vb.t., 43. 

Deye, sb., 36, 37, 56. Dairy-maid : 
see Chaucer. 

Deye, vb., 52. Die. 

Dise, vb.t., 69. Dice ; cut into Dice. 

Disshful, 112. 

Disson, sb., 67. Dozen. 

Diteyne, 110. Dittany. 

Diting, sb. , 105. Dighting; prepara- 
tion. 

Do, vb.t., do awayj 10 ; Do aboue, 
put above, 112 ; Do it in a faire 
vessel, Put it in, 112 ; Do }>er-to, 

j Add thereto, 13, 14, 110, 112; Do 
medle, Make meddle, or mix, 82 ; 

I Don, 10, Done, do. 

Doble, vb.t., 39. Double; fold over. 



Doderelly8, 61, Dotterels. 

Dogfi, 73, Dough : see Dow. 

Doke, 64, Duck. 

Dore, vb.t., 38, 40. Glaze ; compare 
next word, and Endore. 

Dorre, Soppes, 90, Soupes dorrees, 
114, Soupes Dorroy, 11, Soupes 
dorye, 11 ; i.e. Sops endored, or 
glazed with almond milk. Dorry, sb., 
11. See Endore. 

Doucete, adj., 33 ; Dowcet, 7, 29, 30. 
Fr. Doucet, sweetish. 

Doucete j, 50 ; Doucettes, 65, D. a- 
forcyd, 66 ; Doucetys, 64 ; Douoettys 
4 ; Dowcet Ryal, 62, Dowcetys, 55 : 
"Doucet; A lytell flawne," Pals- 
grave. Cheesecake. 

Douuk, adv., 7. Down. 

Doust, sb., 112; Douste, 110, 113. 
Dust. 

Dow, sb., 42, 43, stronge Dow, 49. 
Dough. 

Draf, sb., 22; of Almaundys, 16. 
Draff; refuse. 

Dragge, sb., 11. Dredge. 

Draw, vb.t., 7, 8, Draw vp, 7, Strain ; 
Draw ]?orw straynowre, 5, 8, 9, Draw 
uppe J?orw strayn., 20 ; draue, 106. 

Drawe, vb.t., 9. Draw; eviscerate. 

Drawyd, adj., 5. Drawn (through 
strainer). 

Drawyn grwel, 10, see Douce MS., 
No. 33 : A. reads here " Brauhie 
gruelle." Drawyn Eyroun, 42, 44. 
Drawn (through strainer). 

Dregge, sb., 99; Dragge, 11. Dredge. 

Dresse, vb.t., d. forth, 13, yn, 14; 
Dressyst yn, 15. Dress ; serve in to 
table. 

Dressing knyfe, 93 : see Dressoure 
lcnyf. 

Dressoure, sb., 24, 28, 30, 31, 34, . 
Dresser : Dressoure knyf, 53, Dresser 
knife, apparently knife for trimming 
meat for the table ; called Dressing 
knyfe in Douce MS., and above. 

Dropey, 2 ; Chykons in dropeye, 30 ; 
see F. of C, No. 19, " Drepee, n which 
is the recipe for the sauce. 

Dropping, sb., 77, 99. Dripping. 

Drow in Sonne, 38, Dry in sun. 



128 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOKS. 



Dry, adj., Puti dry, 78. Pluck clean. 

Dryit, 39. Dryeth. 

Dubbate, 1 ; Gelyne in dubbatte, 13. 
This may be a perversion of Jus 
bdtard ; see references under Bastard : 
the word is spelt Dieubate in Douce 
MS., No. 69, and Gelyne endobat 
is the form in the Recipe on 
page 80. 

Dyse, sb., 39. Dice. 

Dysshe, sb., 8, 14; Dysshys, 14. 
Dish.— Dyssche-fulle, 54 

Dyuerse, adj., 36. Diverse (in colour). 



Easly, adv., Seeth" easly and longe, 78. 
Gently. 

Eche a coffyfi, 74, Each Coffin. 

Efte, adv., 43. Eft ; after. 

Egges, Potage de, 94 (Poached Eggs), 
see Douce MS., No. 100, "Egges 
pocche)," F. of C, No. 90, " Pochee " ; 
Eggys Ryal, 62. See Ey. 

Eggys, 54, Edges. 

Egredoncetes, 113, Egredouncye, 31, 
see F. of C, No. 21, " Egurdouce" 
(Flesh) ; F. of C, No. 133, " Egur- 
douce of Fysshe" and Warner, p. 
45, and p. 72 (Fish) ; Warner, p. 44 
(Fruit), p. 57, "Egurdouce to potage" 
(Soup) ; Browne in Egurdouce, 71, 
see Douce MS., No. 56. Fr. Aigre- 
doux, sour-sweet. 

Egrete rosted, 79, Egrett rost, 116 ; 
see Napier, p. 63 ; Egretez, 58. 
Egret, a kind of Heron, see Cotgr., 
Aigrette, Egrette. 

Eier, sb., 73. Air. 

Eiren, 83. Eggs : see Ey. 

Eisel, 110: see Eysel. 

Ele, 8b., 48 ; Elys in Gauncelye, 22 ; 
Elys in Sorre, 89, 61, see Douce MS., 
No. 25, Warner, p. 68, p. 85 ; Bakyn 
Elm, 59, Elys Rostyd, 59, 60, 62, 
Salt Elys, 59, Salt Elys with galen- 
tyne, 60. 

E1L?«, conj., 8 ; Ellej, 75, 88 ; Ellys, 
6, 10, 15 ; Els, 109. Else. A. reads, 
" ellys Skynnys of Plays," in recipe 
ex. p. 26, probably rightly. 

Enche, sb., 75. Inch. 

Endore, vb.t., with jolkys of Eyroun, 



41, 47, 52, 75. Glaze ; compare Dors, 
above ; Fr. endorer, gild. 

Endelonge }e spete, 97, Endelonge 
the bak, 104 ; Enlonge, 71, 7a End- 
long ; along. 

Entrayle, 38. 

Erbeblade, 76. See Herbelade. 

Erbis, sb., 6, 31 ; Erbys, 19. Herbs. 
F. of C, No. 151, has a " Frytour of 
Erbesr 

ErJ>en, adj., 7, E. pannys, 54 ; ErJ^yn, 
109. Earthen. 

Eron, 82, 83. Eyren : eggs. 

Esyli, adv., SeJ>e esyli, 42. Easily ; 
gently. 

Etyn, pp., 52, Eaten. 

Euelong, adj., 53. Oblong. 

Even, adv., 14; Euene, 6, 7; Euyne, 
12. Even; evenly. 

Euery, adj., 20, 27. Every; each.' 

Ey, sb., 19 ; Eyerofi, 81 ; Eyren, 83 ; 
Eyron, 8, Eyron en poche, 24; 
Eyroun in lentyn, 41, see Napier, 
p. 37, "Eggs in lent"; Eyroun, 11, 
12, 14, 17, 31: Warner, p. 89, 
has a recipe for "Eyren Gelide," 
see the dish on page 58 of this 
volume, which means Eggs in 
Jelly, not Iced eggs ; he has also 
"Eyryn in bruetfll. No. 23. See 
Egges. 

Eysel, sb., 28; Eysel Wyne, 31. 
Eisel ; wine vinegar. 0. F. Aisil, Eisil. 



Faire, adj., faire ppitte, faire potte, 
faire grece, faire brede, 82, clean, 
nice ; adv., leche it faire, but not 
to thyn, 71, of moderate thickness ; 
Roste hem faire, 82, moderately, 
nicely ; Fayre oyle, etc., bright, good, 
13, 14, 15 ; Fayre, clean, 13, 15 ; 
F. pecys, moderate-sized, 13; F. Fyre, 
? bright, 15. 

Fan, vb.t., fan owt, 7. Blow out 
(chaff, etc.). 

Farce, vb.t, 41, 48. Stuff. 

Farced, adj., Capoun or gos farced, 
41 ; Farcyd, 3 ; Pygge y-forsyd, 40. 
Stuffed. 

Farcere, sb., 46; Farsour, 113; Par- 
sure, 39, 43, 49. Stuffing. 



GLOSSARY AND INDEX. 



129 



Pars, sb., 45. Farce ; stuffing. 

Paste, adv., 27. Past; tight. 

Fastyng day is, 17. 

Fauntempere, 19 ; spelt Paintempere 
on page 2. 

Fayre, adj., see Fairs. 

Feche, vb.t., 36. Fetch. 

Felettes of Porke endored, 82, F. in 
galentyne, 82 ; see Fylettes. 

Fere, sb., in fere, together, 20. 

Fere, adj., 83. Fair: moderate sized. 
See Faire. 

Fesaunt Host, 116, Fesannte rosted, 
78 ; see Napier, p. 60. 

Fe)?er, sb., 31, 53. Feather. 

Fey, sb., 101. Liver ; Anglo-Fr. Fete. 

Fig, see Figus, Fygys. 

Figee, 113 ; Fygey, 94, Fygeye, 24 ; 
see Warner, p. 46, F. of C, No. 89, 
Napier, p. 119, "Figge," Douce MS., 
No. 162, "Figee." The dish is called 
"Fyguade" m L.C.C., p. 42. A 
u Fyge to potage," is also given in 
Warner, p. 67. The " Fygey" in 
Warner seems to be from Fig4, 
thickened, see Cotgr., "Laict fige*" 
as there are no figs in it; at the 
same time the figs thicken it, and 
Figuade would be the more likely 
form from Figue. 

Figus, 112. Figs. 

Fillet, see Felettes, Fylettes. 

Firmanty, 105 : see Furmenty. 

Fissh, Blaumanger of, 114, Blamanger 
of Fyshe, 23 ; Chauudon of flash, 114 ; 
Mortrewes of Fysshe, 14, Mortrowes 
of flash, 114 ; Iuschelle of F., 16 ; 
Gelye de F., 26 ; Potage on a Fys- 
daye, 29 ; Fyssday 9 ; Potage on 
fysshday,15; Fyssheday,ll,30. Fish. 

Flake Water, 21, should probably be 
" slake," i.e. warm. 

Flampoyntes bake, 53 ; Flampoyntys, 
4 ; see F. of C, No. 113, No. 184> 
Flawmpeym," Warner, p. 66, "Flam- 
poyntes" ; Flampayn, 60 ; Flampoyne, 
60. Flampoynte is Flan points, and 
is so called from the small points of 
pastry with which the open Flawn 
was stuck, and made bristly. 

Flat, adj., bind up f., 33; serue in 



flatte, 33 ; sette out almost flatte, 33. 
The word here refers to the stiffness, 
or thickness, of a semi-fluid ; see 
especially Kecipe cxxix. p. 29. 

Flathons, 51, Flathonys, 73 ; see 
Douce MS., No. 16, "Flathonys," 
L.C.C., p. 39, "Flaunes;" FLathouns 
in lente, 56, see Warner, p. 48, 
"Flownys in Lente." Cotgr., "Flans, 
Flawnes, Custards, Egge-pies." 
Littre, " Flan. Tarte faite avec de 
la crdme fouettee, des oeufs et de la 
farine." The word is derived from 
the low Latin Fladonem; compare 
O.H.G. Flado, Mod. G. Fladen. 
They were open tarts. 

Flawns, see Flathons. 

Fie, vb.t., 10, 18. Flea: flay. 

Flesh, Tartus of, 74 ; Tartes de 
chare, 47, 52 ; Fless day, 113 ; 
Flesshe day, 30; Mortrewys de 
Fleyssh, 14 ; Fleysshe, l,10,Rapeye 
of F., 25. " Fjlelysshe " in Recipe 
cxix. p. 28, should be " Fysshe," as 
A. also reads. 

Florche, vb.t., 30; Florisshe, 113; 
Floryssche, 47. Flourish ; garnish. 

Flos campy flow, 31. Flower for 
ornamenting dish. 

Floundres boiled, 102, see Douce MS., 
No. 136. 

Flour, sb., 38; Moure Rys, 38; 
Whetyn floure, 33 ; Flowre of whete, 
46, Whete Flowre, 38, Flowre of 
Amidons, 16, F. of Canelle, 15, F. of 
rys, 6, 15, 16, 18, 19, 20, 29. 

Flowre, vb.t., 26. Flour. 

Flowres, sb., 23 ; Flowrys, 20, 29, 
F. of hawjjorn, 29 ; Flowjerys, 20. 
Flowers. 

Foiles of parcelly, 102. See Foyle. 

Forced with milke and rawe yolkes 
of ey ren, 117. See A -forcyd. 

Yore, prep., 106. For. 

Forlonge wey, or ii, 91 ; Forlong- 
wey, 7 ; A. reads here " a furlonge 
Way or ij," while the Douce MS. has 
" Forlange." This apparently means 
the time one would take to that 
distance. 

Fore, sb., It is no fors, 33. Force ; 
matter of importance : a French 
Idiom, see Cotgr., Force. 



130 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOKS. 



Forsayd, adj., 28; forsayde, 38. 
Foresaid. 

Fort, eonj., Fort hit breke, 114; 
Fort that, 114 Until 

ForJ>*r-more, 29. Furthermore. 

For-wttA, adv., 41. Forthwith. 

Foure-square, 46, iiij square, 44. 
Four-square ; square. 

Foyle, sb., of Syluer, 27 ; Foyles of 
ginger, 96. Foil ; leaf, paring. 

Fraied oyle, 93, 96. Apparently 
fried oil, which is still used oyer again 
in France. See Fray. 

Franchemyle, 3 ; Frawnchemyle, 39 ; 
see L.C.C., p. 36, " Fraunche mele," 
Warner, II. No. 15, " Fronchemoyle," 
Napier, p. 119, "Fraunt hemelle." 
Cotg., " Franchemulle dVn mouton, 
A sheepes call, or kelL" MuUe, or 
Mule, is O.Fr. for poche. Compare 
" Francke mule d'un bceuf. The purse, 
bag, or skinne, wherein the stones of 
an Ox, etc., be contained." — Cotgr., 
s.v. Mule. 

Fray, vb.t., 89. Fry. The Douce 

MS. has "fray hit." 
Fresche, adj., 5 ; Freys, 6 ; Freysshe, 

6, 9, 10 ; Freyssche, 52. Fresh. 
Frete, vb.t., 113. Fret; rub. 
Fretoure, 44, Frutours, 73 ; see L.C.C., 

£39, Warner, II. No. 19, No. 40 ; 
onge Fretoure, 43, 73, see Douce 
MS. No. 14 ; Longe Frutours, 68 ; 
Lente Frutowrs, 96 ; Fretoure owt 
of lente, 46 ; Leche Frutour, 68 ; 
Frutoure Rasyn, i.e. of Raisins, 69 ; 
Frutoure Samata, 62; Frytoure da- 
maske, 62 ; F. of C. has also " Fry- 
tour of Mylke," No. 150, and " F. of 
Erbes^o.lbl. O.F. Friture, Frying. 

Fride, adj., 7 ; Fryit, 1 ; Froyde, 7. 
Fr. Froid, —e, Cold. 

Fritter, see Fretoure. 

Froyse, 86, Froyse out of Lentyn, 45, 
see Douce MS., No. 182, L.C.C., 
p. 50, Warner, II. No. 18 fveal) ; 
F. in lentynne, 42. Fr. Praise, 
pancake. They were round fritters. 

Froyte de almondes, 91, called in 
Douce MS., No. 11, u Froydelet dal- 
mande8," i.e. Cold Almond Milk. 

Frutours, 73, see Fretoure. 



Fry, vb.t., Fry in oyle, 21, 30, 42, 
45, 93 ; in grece, 14, 30, 44 ; Frye 
vppe brown in Oyle, 43 ; Fry in 
grece or buttur, 73. 
Fry, sb., of Pyke, 95 ; Frye of Pyke, 
16. Roe. 

Fryid, adj., 12, " Oyle fryid," which 
may mean either cold oil, or fried oil, 
which is still kept and used again 
in France ; see Fraied oyle, above ; 
at page 46 it means fried. 

Frying-pan, 73; Frying-panne, 42, 
45 ; Ryng-pan, 86. 

Fulle, vb.t., 39. Fill. 

Fullyche, adv., 9, 29. Fully ; quite. 

Furmenty with purpaysse, 17, Fir- 
menty with porpeys, 105, see 
Douce MS., No. 171, Napier, p. 
86, F. of C, No. 69, No. 116, 
Warner, p. 66; Venyson with 
t, 6, F. with venyson, 70, 68, see 
Douce MS., No. 180. Recipes for 
Furmenty are given in Napeer, p. 
100, Warner, II. No. 1, and p. 81, 
L.C.C., p. 7. " Furmenty is a Wheat 
husked and boyled," Holme, Armory, 
II. iii. 56. 

Fuyr, sb., 12; Fuyre, 78. Fire. 

Fygys, sb., 15, 16, 24. Figs. 

Fyletta, sb., 49; Fylettys, 38. 
Fillets. Fylettys en Galentyne, 8, 
82, see Napier, p. 89, F. of C, No. 
28 and No. 117, Warner, p. 58, 
L.C.C., p. 31 ; Felettes of Porke 
endored, 82, see Douce MS., No. 
127, " Filettes de pork en gallentvne," 
or "en-dorre}," Napier, p. 67, "Feletes 
of Pork." 

Fyngerys, sb., 44, 52. Fingers ; 
(and as measure). 

Fyre, 41, 42, Fire. 



Gader, vb.t. 7, 17, 31 ; Gadere, 7, 45 ; 
Gadre, 42. Gather. 

Galentyn, Lampreys in, 32, see Na- 
pier, p. 117, F. of C, No. 126, L.C.C., 
p. 25, Warner, p. 46 ; Lamprons 
in Galentyne, 100, see Douce MS., 
No. 46, F. of C, No. 127, Warner, 
p. 70; Pike in galentine, 101 (two 
recipes), see Douce MS., No. 75, 
Napier, p. 79 ; Fylettys en Galen 1 



GLOSSARY AND INDEX. 



131 



tyne, 8, see Napier, p. 89, F. of C., 
Nos. 28, 117, Warner, p. 58, L.C.C., 
p. 31 : Galyntyne, 109, 0.F. Galentine. 
For the Recipe for Galentine see 
Sauces. 

Galingale, sb., 107; Galyngale, 13, 
15,34,54. See Cotgr., "Galingal. 
The Aromaticall root of the rush 
called Cypresse, and English Galin- 
gale." 

Galon, sb., A gode g., 22 ; Galouns, 
12, 22. Gallon. 

Gape, vb.tnt., (of boiled muscles 
opening), 90. 

Garbage, 9, 72, see Douce MS., No. 83, 
Napier, p. 78 ; Garbagys, 9. Giblets. 

Garleke, sb., 23, 110; clone, 110, 
Clouys of garleke, clowes of g., Cloves 
of garlic, 109. 

Garlic, see Garleke. 

Gauncely, 2 ; Elys in Gauncelye, 22 ; 
Hennys in G., 23. See "Janse % 
jance, gance, sorte de sauce ;" Gode- 
froy. It would almost appear to be 
properly a sauce for goose ; compare 
" Gances, Anseres silvestres ; " Du- 
cange. It is also spelt GaunceH, as 
in Douce MS. : for the sauce see 
Sauces. 

Gaylede, 22. 

Gele of peson, 95, Gelye de Fysshe, 
26, see Douce MS., No. 175, F. of C, 
No. 101, Warner, p. 72, II. No. 36 
(Fish or Flesh) ; Gely (calves foot), 
86, Bee Douce MS., No. 174 ; Gelye 
de chare, 25, see F. of C, No. 102, 
"Gele of Flessh," Napier, p. 42, 
" GUly offleshe," Warner, p. 44, and 
p. 61; Gele Potage, 68. Fr. Gelee. 
Jelly. 
Geloferys, sb., 19; Gelofres, 15; 
Gelofrej, 48; Gelofrys, 21. Gilli- 
flowers. 
Gelyne in dubbatte, 13, Gelyne en- 
dobat, 80, see Douce MS., No. 69, 
and Dubbate : Gelyne in brothe, 81, 
see Douce MS., No. 89, see also 
recipes under Hen. Fr. Gelin, Hen. 
Gilliflower, see Geloferys. 
Ginger, see Gyngere. 
Gobet, sb., 31, 55; Gobettys, 6, 13, 
18, 23, 55. Gobbet ; lump. 



Gobet, vb.t, 54; Gobete, 112. Gob- 
bet ; cut into gobbets. 

Gobou»s, sb., 10. Gobbets. 

Goce, sb., 81, Goose. See Goos. 

Goions fryid, 60. Fried gudgeons. 

Golet, sb., & Golett, 116. Gullet. 

Goos in hogepotte, 18, see Warner, 
p. 67, p. 84, and II. No. 22, F. of C, 
No. 31,L.C.C, p. 32 ; Goce or Capon 
farced!, 81, Capoun or gos farced, 
41, see Douce MS.,. No. 36 ; Gos, 2 ; 
Gees, 8 ; Wilde gese, 76. Goose. 

Graspeys, 59 ; Eoyal Fish, as Stur- 
geon or Whale, but applied also to 
other fish. 

Grate, vb.t., 6. 

Gratid, adj., brede, 16, 21 ; gratyd, 
14 Grated. 

Grauey, Oystres en 13, 100 ; Whyte 
pesyn in g., 33 ; Conyngys in 
graueye, 18 ; Grauy, 1 ; Oystrys 
in g. bastard, 13. Gravy. 

Graynys, sb., 28 (Pas next); of parise, 
6, parys, 34, Perys, 27, Grains of 
Paradise ; of Pome-garnad, 29. 

Grease, see Greee. 

Grece, sb., 7, 8, 14, 34, 45; Whyte 
gr., 29 ; Gres, 43. Grease. 

Gredelle, sb., 40; Grydelle, 21. 
Girdle (for cooking). 

Gredyl, vb.t., vp broun, 40. Girdle ; 
cook on girdle. 

Gredire, sb., 102, 103; Gredren, 100 ; 
Gredryn, 102, 103; Gredyre, 36. 
Gridiron. 

Grene, ad;., 15, 20 ; Grene chese, 48. 
Green. 

Gret, adj., a gret dele, 12, Gret 
Koysouns, 16, Grete roysonys, 33, 
Great Raisins, i.e. not Currants ; 
Grete pyes, 76 ; Grettcr, 15, Greater. 

Gridel, 114, see Gredyl. 

Groundyn, adj., 38, Ground ; brayed. 

GroweH, 70; Growelle Force, 70, 
Gruelle a-forsydde, 6, see Douce 
MS., No. 32, L.C.C., p. 47, "Gruel 
offors," F. of C, No. 3, " Grewel 
forced," Warner, p. 51, " Growel of 
force," Napier, p. 88, "Gruelle en- 
forced;" L.C.C., p. 20, has also "Gruel 
of P or Ice;" Drawyn grwel, 10, see 



132 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOKS. 



Douce MS., No. 33; Grwele, 10; 

Grwelle, 1. Gruel. 
Gruel, see GroweU. 
Grynd, v b.t., 12 ; Grynde, 9. Grind. 
GuisseH, 87 ; see IuschelU. 
Gullys, 62, 63. Gulls. 
Gurnard, sb., 25; G. rosted or boyled, 

103, 104, see Douce MS., No. 141, 

Napier, p. 74 ; Gornard, 14 ; Gurnyd 

broylid with a syryppe, 62. 
Gutte, sb., of purpays, 42, ?the 

pouch : Guttys, 108. Gut. 
Gyngaudre, 16, Gyngautrey, 94 ; see 

Douce MS., No. 161, Warner, p. 70, 

"Gyngawtre," F. of C, No. 94, 

" Gyngawdry" 
Gyngerbrede, 35 ; Gyngere brede, 3. 

Gingerbread 
Gyngere, sb., 10, 11, 17, 25, 32; 

Whyte Gyngere, 21 : Gyngeuere, 

115 ; Gyngiuer, 114 Ginger. 
Gysers, sb., 72, 76, 108 ; Gysour, 41 ; 

Gysowrys, 9. Gizzard. O.F. Gezier. 



Hacke, vb., 14, 18 ; Hak, 76 ; Hakke, 
13, 14, 18, 23. Hack ; hew. 

Haddok, sb., 10, 11, 16; Haddok 
or Oodlyng, 104, see Douce MS., 
No. 143 ; Haddoke in Cyuee, 114, 
see Napier, p. 72. Haddock. 

Hagas de Almaynne, 44, Hagas de 
almondes, 84, see Napier, p. 43, 
" Hagge8 of Almayne," Douce MS., 
No. 21, "liagys dalmaygne" ; Hagase, 
3; Hagws of a schepe, 39, see 
L.C.C., p. 52. Haggis. 

Hak, vb.t., 76. Hack. 

Hake, sb., 16. 

Hakkyd, pp., 32. See Hacke. 

Halful, 55, Half-full. 

Halfyndele, 20; Halvyndele, 41. 
Half-deal, or part. 

Halybutte, 60, Halibut. 

Ham, pron., 37. Them. 

Handfulle, sb., 28. Handful. 

Handys, *5., 14; Hond, 16; Hondys, 
15, 35. Hand, hands. 

Hanoney, 43, 84. See also Douce MS. , 
No. 24. Apparently Oignon4\ see 
also Oignonaae, inLrrTRE, a dish with 
many onions in it, as this dish has. 



Hard, vb.t, 56, Harde, 54 ; Harde, 
vb.int.,47 ; Hardyd,p.50. Make hard. 

Hard, adv., sethe hard, 12. Fast; 
sharply. 

Hardid, adj., 56. Harded ; hardened 
(in oven). 

Hare, sb., 19, Hare in Wortes, 69 ; 
Harys in C^ueye, 18, see Warner, 
II. 8, L.CC, p. 21, Napier, p. 113 ; 
Warner has also " Haris in Talbo- 
tay*," II. No. 9 (see this Work, p. 19), 
and " Hares or conynges in seue," p. 
78, see L.C.C., p. 21. 

Haselle, sb., leuys, 31 : Spete of h., 
39. Hazel 

HawJ7Qrn, Flowrys oi^ 29 ; Haw- 
thorun, 20. See Spyneye. 

Hasselet, sb., 97; Hastelette, 106. 
Harslet: Douce MS., " Haslet. w 
"Ha8telet, dimin. de haste, viande 
rdtie."— Godefroy. 

Hed, sb., 9, 16; Hedys, 16, 42. Head. 

Hef, vb., 53. Heave; lift. 

Hegfi, adj., 75. High. 

Held, vb., 39. Throw ; cast. 

Hele, vb.t., 27, 47, 73. Cover. 

Helyd, pp., 52. Covered. 

Hem, pron., 14, 15, 19, 84, 40. 
Them : 18, 19, 40. Him. 

Hen, sb., 14 ; Conyng or hen in 
clene broth, 80, see Douce MS., 
No. 67; Conyng, hen, or Mallard, 80, 
see Douce MS., No. 68 ; Vele, kede, 
or henne in Bokenade, 13 ; Hennys 
in bruette, 18, see Warner, II. 7, 
Napier, p. 114, L.C.C., p. 22, and 
p. 49 ("Henne in brothe >y ); Hennys 
in Gauncelye, 23, see L.C.C., p. 24, 
Napier, p. 116; Henne, 13; Hennys, 
. 19, 21. See Gelyne. 

Her, sb., Her syue, Hair sieve, 113. 

Herbelade, 54, Herbe-blade, 76 ; see 
Napier, p. 58, u Hayrblad opyn," (ue. 
open, with no top crust,) Douce MS., 
No. 184. So called from the herbs in 
the cakes. See Ducange, "Herbo- 
la8ta," a cake stuffed with herbs. 

Herbs, see Erbis. 

Here, 24. The hairy appendage of the 
Mussel, called "Muskles Wool, ,, in 
Holme, Armory, II. xiv. 345 ; now 
called the Byssus. 



GLOSSARY AND INDEX. 



133 



Herofi rosted, 78, H. rost, 116, see 

L.C.C., p. 35, Napier, p. 62, Herons, 

68 ; Heyroun, 62. 
Heron-sewe, 68 ; Heron sewes, 61 ; 

Heronsewys, 59. Hernshaw ; young 

Heron. 
Herte, sb., 41 ; Hertys, 8. Heart. 
Hery of bonys, 14; Hairy with 

bones. 
Hete, sb., 22 : vb., 11 ; bete bote, 12. 

Heat 
Heyroun, 62. Heron. 
Hew, vb.t, 7, 17; Hewe, 6, 17. 
Hogepotte, Goos in, 18 : "Hochepot: 

A botch-pot, or Gallimaufrey." 

— Cotgr. 
Hogfces, sb.,5l ; Howe, 37; Howhys, 

25 ; Hops of fele, 86. Hock. 
Hoi, adj., 19, 27; Hole pepir, 8, 9; 

Hool, 55 ; Hoole, 12. Whole. 
Hold coloure, keep colour, 25; 

Holdyn, pp., 7. 
Hole, vb.inir., 7, Hull; lose the husks; 

Hoole, vb.tr., 33, Hull ; strip off hubs. 
HoH, sb., 105; Holys, 7, 32, 114. 

Hull ; husk. 
Hondefuti, sb., 72. Handful. 
Honge, vb.intr., 36 ; hongy, 7. Hang. 
Hony, 6, Clarifiyd h., 12, Hwyte 

Hony, 29. 
Horn, 106, of Whelk. 
Hote, adj., 10, 12. Hot. 
H.q., 12. JZbcquare: like q.v. 
Hure, hyre, adj., 13, 18. Her. 
Hwyte, adj., Hony or Sugre, 29, 

Sugre, 54 White. 
Hy, adj., komyth on hy, boils up, 17. 
Hym, pron., 18; Hyt, 35. Him: It. 
Hyrchouns, 62. See Yrchons. 



I-ete, 99, Eaten. 

Isope, sb., 27 ; Isoppe, 74. Hyssop. 

I-sothe, pp., 18. Sodden. 

Ioissfr 116, Juice. 

Jollys of Samoun, 61, Salmon Jowls. 

Ioutes, 6 ; Iouutes, 1. See Napier, 
p. 108 (Almond), L.C.C., p. 15, 
"Jouts dalmond," F. of C, No. 88, 
(Almond), Warner, p. 67, "Jowtes 



of Almand Mylke ;" F. of C., No. 
73, "French* Owtes ; " F. of C, No. 
6, " Eowtes of Flessh," Warner, p. 
52, "Joutes on flesh day," p. 80, 
"Jowtes of flessh" ; Warner, p. 80, 
"Jowtes of fysshe"\ L.C.C., p. 47, 
48, "Joutes,"\ vegetables). lust seems 
equivalent to Jus, Juice, see Cotgr., 
and is spelt Joust in Warner, p. 89 ; 
and see Ducange, "Jutta, potionem 
confectum ex lacte spissiorem." 

Ioynte, sb., 116. 

luce, sk, 92: Ius, 15, 31, 40, 41, 
45 ; Juse, 21. Juice, 

Iunte, vb.t, 116. Joint. 

Iuschelle of Fysshe, 16, IussheH, 95 
(Fish) ; IusseH, 95 ; see Warner, 
p. 86, "Jussel of fy*she." Douce 
MS., No. 166, "Guissell" (Fish) ; see 
also Warner, p. 82, "Jussel of flessh," 
Napier, p. 26, "JuseUe sengle," 
(flesh), p. 87 and p. 104, "Jusselle" 
(Flesh), L.C.C., p. 11 (Flesh), War- 
ner, II. No. 21 (Flesh), and Warner, 
p. 82, F. of a„ No. 44, " Jusshell 
enforced." "Jussel, jus, potion," Gode- 
proy : Juscelhem is late Latin for soup. 
See Ouissell. 

Kake, sb., of dow, 43 ; 85. Cake. 

Kaste, vb., 52; Kest, 115. Cast: 
throw. 

Kede : Vele, kede, or henne in Boke- 
nade, 13, 85, see Douce MS., Nos. 76, 
77 ; Kede rosted, 81, see Napier, p. 
65 ; Keed 85 ; Kyde a-Forsyde, 41. 

Kele, vb.int., 7, 12, 13, 24 ; Kelid, 38. 

Kelyng, sb., 94, 96. Keeling. 
Holme, II. xiv. 334, says it is the 
common Cod, but it seems identified 
with Codling elsewhere. Florio, 
1659 ed., see Eng.-ItaL part, trans- 
lates it by Merluzzo, which he says 
is the Haddock-fish, or according to 
others the Sea-whiting. 

Kerf, vb., 38; Kerue, 22, 36, 112. 
Carve : cut. 

Kerve, vb.t., in a morter, 70, Bray. 

Keuere, vb.t., 45, 52; Kou*re, 112; 
Kyuer, 43 ; Kyuere, 46, 50. Cover: 
see Ceuere. 

Kid, see Kede. 



134 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOKS. 



Kne, Knese, 116; Kneys, 116. Knee. 

Knede, vb.t, 38. Knead. 

Knyf, sb., 35 ; Knyff, 34. Knife. 

Koddys, 43. See Bme-codde. 

Komyth, 17. Cometh. 

Kowe mylke, 35. 

Kreme, sb., 7, 39; of Almaundys, 

42. Cream. 
Kreme, vb.t, 35, 40; Kryme, 35. 

Crimme; crumble. 
Kutte, vb.t, 21. Cut. 
Kychoun, sb., 34. Kitchen. 
Kyde, see Kede. 
Kyn, 114, Cows. 
Kyrneleys, sb., 34; KyrneHys, 80, 

32. Kernels. 
Kyt, vb.t., 7, 11; Kytte, 7, 10, 11, 

14, 15, 18, 26 ; Kyttyst, 52. Cut 
Kyttyng, sb., 26. Cutting. 
Kyuere, vb. t 46, 50, 52. Cover : «ee 

Ceuere and Keuer. 



Ladel, sb., 7, 10 ; Ladelle, 17. Ladle. 
Ladel-ful. 8, Ladleful 

Lamprays bake, 52, Lamprey I-bake, 
98, see Douce MS., No. 60, L.C.C., 
p. 38, Napier, p. 49, p. 121 ; Lam- 
prey poudred, 99, see Douce MS., 
No. 130 ; Lampreys in galentyn, 32, 
see Warner, p. 46, F. of C, No. 126, 
L.C.C., p. 25, Napier, p. 117 ; Sauce 
pour lamprey, 99, see Douce MS., 
No. 30 ; Warner, p. 46, has "Lamprey 
in bruet." 

Lamprons y-bake, 100, Lamprotms 
y-bake, 51, see Douce MS., No. 91 ; 
Lamprons in Galentyne, 100, see 
Douce MS., No. 46, F. of C, No. 
127, Warner, p. 70 ; Lampronys, 32 ; 
Lamprounys, 51. Lampern. 

Larde, sb., 19, Lard ; Lardej, Lardys, 
49, Thin slices. 

Larde, vb.t., for roasting, 18, 78 ; cut 
in thin slices, 40, used in the same 
signification in A., see this book, 
p. 19, recipe lxvij; the bracketed 
"mynce" being "larde M there. Lard. 

Larkes rosted, 68. 

Lasse o)>er more, 45. Less or more. 

Lat. vb., 12, 21, 25, lat blede, 52; 



Late, 7, 21, 43, Late deye, 52, Late 
blode, 52; Let, 12, 21; Lete, 
12, 21. 

Laumbere, adj., 26. Amber. 

Leche, 9b., 34, 71 ; L. lumbarde, 35 
(2 Recipes), 92, 93, see Douce MS., 
No. 64, No. 55, F. of C, No. 69, 
Warner, p. 62, Napier, p. 34, "Lesk 
lombard"; L. Vyanndes, pt. II., 
HarL MS. 279, p. 34, see Viaund; 
Lese fryea, 75, see Douce MS., No. 
43, Napier, p. 59, "Lesche freez;" 
F. of C, No. 158, has "Leashes fryed 
in lenton*; Lechys, 25, 32, 34. See 
Cotgr,, "Lesche: A long slice, or 
diiue of bread'* (or other edibles). 
There are also in the Banquets Leche 
barry, 62, Leche cremy rycdl, Leche 
Frutour, 68. The Leche barry was 
a leche with bars of gold and silver 
as adornment. 

Leche, vb.t, 12, 13, 17, 18, 31, 71 ; 
Lechyst, 35; Lesshe, 12. Cut in 
leches. 

Lechyd, pp., 35. Cut in leches. 

Lechyngys, sb., 15. At first sight 
this looks like Lechings, but A. 
glosses it Lozenges, and Losenges is 
also spelt " lechynges " in A., in the 
recipe on page 44. 

Led, sb., 73 ; Lede, 49 ; Ledys, 47, 
48. Lid of pot, and top crust of 
pastry coffin. 

Lede, sb., 39. Lead. 

Leek, see Lekys. 

Lef, vb.t, 12 ; Lef . . out, 51. Leave. 

Lekys, sb., 14. Leeks. 

Lemys, 26. Limbs. 

Lenge, sb., 43, 48. Ling ; the fish. 

Lente, sb., 2, 12, 19, 33, 43, 66 ; 
Lentyn, 29, 33, 41, 45 ; Lentynne, 
42. Lent ; the season. 

Lere, adj., 50. Lear; empty. 

Lese, vb.t, 21, 38. Pick. 

Lese fryes, 75, see Leche. 

Lesenges Fries, 97, see Douce MS., 
No. 154, Napier, p. 58: Lesynges 
de chare, 44, Losinges de chare, 82, 
see Douce MS., No. 74, L.C.C., 
p. 40, "Loysyns," F. of C, No. 49, 
"Loseyns," both of Cheese. Napier, 
p. 80, F. of C, No. 128, "Lessingis 



GLOSSARY AND INDEX. 



135 



on fisehe dais "; Lesyngys, LesyngJ, 
44. Lozenges. 

Let lory, 17, Lethe lory, 85, see F. 
of C, No. 81 ; Lete lardys, 3, Let- 
lardes, 92, Lette lardes, 85, see 
Warner, p. 63, " Leche lardys" 
Napier, p. 87, p. 106, " Ledlardes," 
L.C.C., p. 13, "Lede lardes," F. of 
C. No. 68, " Lete Lardes." Fr. Lait, 
Milk : the " Let lardes" seem origi- 
nally to have been " Let lardey or 
"Larded milk," and *° ^ ve tee* 1 
changed to the substantive lardes or 
lardys, and become "Milk lards," 
and the Let even got changed into 
Leche, as above, the larded milk being 
cut into Leches. Holme also says 
that Leach is " a king of jelly, made 
of cream, ising- glass, sugar and 
almonds, with other compounds." 

Lete, vb., see Lat. 

Leuer, sb., 16, 41; Lyuer, 16; 
Lyuerys, 9, 16. Liver. 

Leuys of p*rcely, 7, of borage, 8. 



Leuyth, 40, Remaineth. 

Ley, vb.t., 109. Lay. 

Ley, Leye, sb., 32. Lie; Lees of 

wine. 
Ling, see Lenge. 
Litel, adj., 16 ; A litil an a litil, 17 ; 

Littel, 16 ; Litul, LituH, 71 ; Lytel, 

24 ; Lytelle, 53 ; Lytil, 16, 16, 17 ; 

Lytylle, 18. Little. 
Liver, see Letter. 
Loach, see Loehes. 
Lobster, see Lopster. 
Loehes, Lochys, 24, Loaches : Menese 

or loche boiled, 104, see Douce MS., 

No. 148. 
Lof, sb., 6. Loaf. 
Loft, On, Aloft, 78. 
Longe Fretoure, 43, L. Frutours, 73, 

68, see Fretoure ; Lange wortys de 

chare, 6, see Douce MS., No. 1 ; 

Lange Wortes de Pesoun, 6, 89, 

see Douce MS., No. 2. 
LongebefF, sb. 9 5. "Lange de beeuf. 

Ox-tongue, rough or small Buglc^se," 

Cotgr. : A. reads here " longedebef." 
Lopster, sb., 102, Crabbe or Lopster 

boiled, 102, see Warner, p. 47 ; 



Lopstere, 24 ; Loppestere, 114 

Lobster. 
Lorey de Boolas, 25 : "Lora, Potionis 

mellitee genus," Duoange. There is 

honey in the Bullace. 
Lozenges, see Lesenges. 
Luce,*J., 39,42,57; Luys,112; Luyss, 

113 ; Luyjs, 113. Full-grown Pike. 
Lust, vb., 41 ; Luste, 55. list; like. 
Luys, Luyss, see Luce. 
Ly, vb.t., 15, 19; Lye, 13. Allay; 

mix. See A-lye. 
Lycour, sb. f 6, 11 ; Lycoure, 12, 26; 

Ly cowre, 11,13; Lykoure, 1 2. Liquor. 
Lyer, sb., 20 ; of Brede cromys with 

wyne, 33. Liour ; mixture : spelt 

" lyre* in F. of C, p. 28. 
Lyid, pp., 13. Allayed. 
Lykey, vb., 31. Like; please. 
Lynne clout, 112, Linen clout. 
Lynen cloj^e, 9, 34. 
Lyode Soppes, 11. ? Allayed, steeped 

sops. 
Lyte, adj., 17. Little. 
Lyuerys, 9 ; see Leuer. 
Ly;t, adj., 17. Light; small. 



Mace, vb.t., 35. Make. 

Maces, sb., 6, 10, 15; Macej, 46; 
Macys, 8. Mace ; the spice. 

Malasade, 83, see Douce MS., No. 10, 
and Meselade; Malesade, 84 

Mallard: Oonyng, hen, or Mallard, 
80, called "Cony, gelyn, ou malard 
en oyle," in Douce MS., No. 68 ; 
Mawlard, 8, 12, 63, Conyng, M. in 
gely or in cyuey, 14, the same Recipe 
as above ; Warner, II. No. 51, and 
p. 62, 85. 

Malmens bastard, 93, Malmenye Fur- 
nej, 48. See Mammenye. 

Malvis, sb., 69; Malwys, 5, 15. 
Mallows. 

Mammenye bastarde, 22 ; Maumenye 
Ryalle, 22 ; Mawmene, 88 ; see 
Douce MS., No. 167, Napier, p. 118, 
"Mammony," Warner, II. No. 30, 
" Maumene," p. 76, " Mawmene," F. 
of C, No. 20, " Mawmenee,"*So. 194, 
u Mawmenny,"L.C.C.'p. 26,"Momene" : 
Warner has also on p. 55, "Maw* 



136 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOKS. 



mens to potage," (a soup). The word 

is apparently derived from the Fr. 

malmener, the meat being teased 

small. Compare Malmenve, above. 
Mange moleyn, 36. Possibly named 

after a person ; see Rys Moleyn} 

on page 59 : both have Rice as 

ingredient. 
Hanged brede, 83, Manchet bread ; 

Douce MS. " Maynche " : see Mengyd 

Flowre, and Paynemain. 
Mannys, 97, Man's. 
Marbyl coloure, 34. Marble colour : 

variegated 
Marbyfle, adj., 29, Marbly; A. 

reading " marDely." 
Marew, $b. t 56 ; Marow, 40, 44 : 

Marw, 6 ; Marwe, 6, 8, 51 ; Mary, 9 

(but A. reads here " meri bonys, ' in 

place of " mary, brothe,") 74, 84 ; 

Marye, 32 ; Merow, 44, Merw, 9, 

Marrow. 
Maribonys, 55, Marw-bonys, 55, 

Mary-bones, 70, Marybonvs, 5, Mery- 

bonys, 5, 6, 46. Marrowbones. 
Marling; Fryid Marlyng, 59, Mer- 

lyng sojra, 61. Whiting : Fr. Merlan. 
Marrow, see Marew. 
Mawe, eb., 38, 39; Mawes, 18, 106; 

Mawys, 18, 38. Maw ; stomach. 
Mawmeny, 68, see Mammenye. 
Medel, vb.t., 73 ; Medle, 75 ; Med- 

ylde togidre, 73. Meddle : mix. 
Melle, vb.t, 24, 30. Mell; mix. 
Mence, vb.t., 41. Mince. 
Menese or loche boiled, 104, see 

Douce MS., No. 148; Menyse, 104 

Minnows. 
Meng, vb.t., 46 ; Menge, 17. Mix : 

mingle. 
Mengyd Flowre, 43, Manchet flour, 

compare Manged brede, Meyned flour : 

Douce MS. reads " Mayned flow." 
Meselade, 42 ; Meslade, 43. ? Meslade, 

mixture : spelt Malesade in Douce 

MS. and in A. See Malasade. 
Messe, vb.t., 30, 114; Messe forth, 

11, 114 Mess ; portion. 
Metys, 35, Meats. 
Meyned floure, 83 : flour for Painde- 

main, or Manchet bread, see Mengyd 

Flowre. 



Mighti, adj., 71. Mighty: strong. 

Milk, see Let 

Milkemete, 106 ; Milke Rostys, 40, 
called Mylke Rostyd, on page 3, see 
Napier, p. 109, Warner, II. No. 
25, L.C.C., p. 17 ; Mylke of al- 
maundys, 6, 7, 13. 

Millet boyled, 104, see Douce MS., 
No. 147, Mullet. Fr. mvlet. 

Millewett, sb. y 96 ; Mil w el, 43, 48 ; 
Milwelle, 48 ; Mulwyl taylys, 61 ; 
MylweH, 16. Mulvefl : said to be 
Haddock. See, however, Holme, 
Armory, II. xiv. 334, where he says : 
"The Kding or common Cod, is 
called the W dwell in Western parts 
of England." In the Eng. It. part 
of Florio, ed. 1659, the Melwel also 
is identified with the Keeling ; also 
inCoTOR. (see "Merlue "), and is there 
said to be a small kind of Cod, of 
which Stockfish was made. See 
Keding. 

Mince, vb., see Myce, Mynee. 

Minnows, see Menese. 

Molberys, 28, Mulberries. 

Molde to-gederys, 35. Mould, or 
roll, together. 

More, adv., 19. 

Morreye, A rede, 28 ; Murrey, 19 ; 
Murreye, 28 ; see F. of C, No. 38, 
"Morree," Warner, p. 48, " Morrey," 
II. No. 37, "Murrey? p. 84, "Murrey" 
and p. 56, "Murre to potage " (a soup). 
It is so called from the mulberry, or 
dark red colour of the dish, and in 
the recipe in Warner, II. No. 37, 
mulberries are used to colour it : 
sometimes wine or saffron is used. 
It. Mom, mulberry; "Mordlo, the 
murreyor black-berry colour," Florio ; 
"Morie: A kind of murrey, or darke- 
red colour," Cotgr. ; " Moratum : 
Potionis genus ex vino et moris 
dilutis confect®," Ducange ; also 
Moretutn. 

Morter, sb., 11, 27, 28; Mortere, 28, 
35, 53; Mortre, 109. Mortar for 
braying. 

Mortrewes of Fysshe, 14, 114, Mor- 
trewes of Pesyn, 90, see Douce MS., 
No. 82, Napier, p. Ill, Warner, 



F. of C. 



i, p. 1 
., No. 



125, L.C.C., 



GLOSSARY AND INDEX. 



137 



p. 19; Mortreus de Chare, 70, 
Mortrewys de Fleyssh, 14, see 
Douce MS., No. 81, Warner, p. 76, 
Napier, p. 102, L.C.C.,p.9; Whyte 
Mortrewes, 19 (Hens), White Mor- 
trewys of Porke, 28, see F. of C, 45, 
"Mortrew," and Warner, II. No. 5, 
"Morterelys," F. of C, No. 46, "Mort- 
rews blank," Napier, p. 106, Warner, 
p. 62, L.C.C., p. 13, "Blanchyd mor- 
trews" all made from Hens and 
Pork. Italian Mortarello, a Mortar, 
Florio : in Ducange "Mortariolum" 
is applied to a dish prepared from 
bits of meat, and there are also the 
forms " Mortairol," and (in Littre) 
"Mortayrol" : see Mortadello, "A 
large sausage," in Littre. Modern 
Mortress, A dish of pounded meat : 
the 11 being liquid in the French 
would give the form Mortrews. 

Morwe, Morrow, see A-morwe. 

Mosselle, sb., 42 ; Mosselles, 83, 
Mossellys, 30, 112. Morsel 

Motley, adj., 36. 

Moton. sb., 8, 9 ; Motouw, 9 ; Alows 
de Beef or de m., 40, 83 ; Trype 
de m., 7, 82, see Douce MS., No. 4 ; 
Brest de motton in sauce, 85, see 
Douce MS., No. 86 ; Stwed Mutton, 
72; Mutouft, 8 : see Mutton. 

Mountance, sb., 42. Amount. 

Mow, vb., 38. May. 

Mowntayne, sb., 84. Compare Mount- 
ance, above. 

Muscules in broth, 90, see Douce MS., 
No. 78, Napier, p. 78 ; M. in shelle, 
90, see Douce MS., No. 79, Napier, 
p. 78 ; Muskelys in bruette, 24, see 
F. of C, No. 122 ; Warner, p. 68, 
has o\so "Musculs in seioe" : Musculis, 
90 j Muskele, 24 Mussel 

Mussel, see Muscules. 

Muttofi, Stwed, 72 (Stewed); Tripe 
de M., 82, see Douce MS., No. 4 ; 
Allowes de M., 83, see Douce MS., 
No. 17. 

Myce, vb.t., 71, 76, 99. Mince. Fr. 
rnicer, michier. 

Myced, adj., andjjp., 72, 75 ; Mysed, 
74. Minced. 

Myddel, sb., 42; Myddelle, 52. 
Middle. 



^yghty, adj., 12. Mighty; strong: 

(Broth). 
Myid brede, 39, 49. Crumbed bread : 

Fr. Mie, crumb ; see L.C.C., p. 8, 

"Myed,"p. 11, "Myud." 
Myle? in Bapeye, 46. 
Mylt, vb.t., 51 ; Mylte, 86. Melt. 
Myites, sb., 70 ; Myltys, 8. Milts ; 

spleens. 
Mynce, vb.t., 16, 29, 110, Mince: 

Mynced, adj., 15, 16, 76 ; Myncyd, 

14, Minced. See Myce. 
Myntes, 110. Mints; the herb. 
Mythty, Myjthty, adj., m. wyne, 22. 

Mighty ; strong. 
Myjt, Myjth, vb., 27. Might. 



Namely, adv., 41, 107. Especially. 

Nape, vb.t., 102, 105. 

Navel, 14. 

Nedyl, sb., 40. Needle. 

Neme, vb.t., 6, 22 ; Nym, 14, 21, 23, 

30, 39 ; Nyme, 23, 30, 32. Nim ; take. 
Neres, sb., 70 ; Nerys, 8. Ears : A. 

reads here " ens." 
Nese Bekys, 45, see " Nysebek," F. 

of C., Na 173. 
Nessfi, adj., 75; Neyshe, 6; Neyssche, 

48, 53 ; Neysshe, 24, 27 ; Nessher, 

94 Nesh ; soft. 
Nombles of Yeneson, 70, Nomblys of 

be venyson, 10, see Douce MS., No. 

39, F. of C., No. 13, and No. 64, 

Warner, p. 53, and II. No. 12 ; see 

also Napier, p. 103, and L.C.C., p. 

10, (any) ; Napier, p. 90, " Nombtes 

of )isc%e." Numbles, p. 114, is 

imperfect. Umbles. O.F. Nombles; 

compare Late Lat. Numbvlus, for 

Lat. Lumbulu8. 
Non, adj., 35. None ; no. 
Notemyggej, 109. Nutmegs. 
Noteye, 31. So called from the nuts 

in it. 
Nowne, 73. Oven. 
Nowt, adv., 6, 8, 11 ; Nojt, 7, 8, 16. 

Not 
Numbles, see Nombles. 
Nutmegs, see Notemygge\. 



138 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOKS. 



Oatmeal, see Otemele. 

Obleies, sb., 73 ; Oblye, 46. Oble ; 
thin cake. Cotgr,, " Oublie : A wafer 
cake ; such a one especially as is 
sweetened only with honie ; also, the 
thinne past that serves for the bot- 
tomes of Tartes, and March-panes." 
See Ducange, Oblata. There are 
the forms Oblie and Oblie, and the 
original sense of the word is conse- 
crated wafer, as an offering. 

Of, adv., 8 ; prep., 27, 42. Off. 

Oil, see Oyle. 

Oille de oliue, 114. Olive oil. See 



On, adj., 36, 53, One; prep., 5, 40. 

In. 
Ondo, vb.t, 17. Undo. 
Onej, adv., 44; Onys, 6, 7, 18, 45. 

Once. 
Onions, see Oynons. 
Ope, vb.t., 18. Cut open. 
Or that, Till that, Till, 55. 
Orage, sb., 5. Orach. Ang.-Fr. 

Orache, Fr. Arroches, see Cotgr.: 

Lat. A triplex, see Mow at, AlpL, 

p. 22. 
Otemele, sb. 9 6, 10; Ote-mele, 42. 

Oatmeal 
0>er, conj., 21, 22, 34. Or. 
Ouer-cast, vb.t., 49 ; Ouer-caste, 48. 

Turn over. 
Ouere-couer, vb.t., 85. Cover over. 
Ovenne, sb., 53 ; Ovyn, 47, 48, 54 ; 

Ovynne, 50. Oven. 
Ouer eve, 20 ; Ouernyjth, 38, Over 

night. 
Ouer-renne, vb.int., 36, 37. Overran, 

run over. 
Ouerjrwart, adv., 40; Oueretwarde, 

115. Across. 
Ouer-wewyd, pp., 25. Compare 

" Biweved, covered," Halliwell : 

wewvd is glossed "wasshe," i.e. 

washed, in A. 
Ouer-wose, 86. "Washed over; com- 
pare A-wese. Douce MS. reads 



Owrys, 8b., 7, 37. Hours. 

Oyle, sb., 12, 0. of Olyff, 30; 

O. soppes, 96, 116, O. soppys, 12, 

see Napier, p. 81. OiL 



Oynons, sb., 6, 110; Oynonys, 5, 8, 
9, 10 ; Oynouns, 109 ; Oynenons, 14. 
Onions. 

Oystres en grauey, 13, 100, see 
Douce MS., No. 65, F. of C. f No. 
121 ; Oystrys in g. bastard, 13 ; O. 
in bruette, 23, see L.C.C., p. 53, 
Warner, p. 47 ; O. in cevey,100, see 
Douce MS., No. 184, F. of C, No. 123. 



Paast, sb., 74, 97, 105; Paaste, 98 ; 

Paste : see Past. 
Pacience, sb., 69. Patience (the 

herb) : Snakeweed, a kind of dock. 
Pancake, 46. 
Panche, sb., 82, panches, 94; 

Paunches, 94. Paunch. 
Panne, sb., 42, 43, for frying; Erthen 

pannys, 54. 
Panteryse, 59. 
Papyns,9. Cotgr.^ "Papin; Pap 

for children.*' 
Parboyle, vb.t., 6, 8, 12, 13, 41 ; Par- 

boyled, 100 ; Parboyhd, 13. ParboiL 
Parboylingge, adj., 84, That is being 

parboiled 
Parcelly sb., 72, 81; Purcely, 72; 

Parcifl, 81. Parsley. See Perceli. 
Parchement, 46. 
Pare, sb., 30. Paring; peel: A. 

Pare, vb.t.',1, 12, 16, 24, 27, 30, 34, 

47, 51, 71, Pare ; peel (fruit and meat) ; 

Pare in ij. or in iij., 87, cut in two 

or three. 
Parej, Pyej de, 53, Pies of Parys, 75, 

see Napier, p. 58, Douce MS., No. 

72 ; Parysgingere, 110. Paris. 
Paris, see Pare). 

Parsley ; see Parcelly and Perceli. 
Parte, vb.t., 20, Part; divide. 
Partricfc rosted, 78, seeNAPiER,p.61, 

Douce MS., No. 109 ; P. stwed, 78, 

Pertrich stewyde, 9, see Napier, p. 

95, Douce MS., No. 28; Pertriches, 

19 ; Pertryche, 1. Partridge. 
Party, sb., 20, 27, 40; Partye, 29, 

40 ; Parti, 40. Part. 
Partye, 46, Party coloured. 
Past, sb., 45, 51 ; Paste, 39, 41, 98 ; 

Paast, 74, 75. See Paast. 



GLOSSARY AND INDEX. 



13d 



Pastelade, 59, Pyrielade chaud, 62, 
P. fryia\ 62, Pet dad e Fryid, 62. 
Pastelet, ? Pasty : it may be a 
pounded dish. 

Payne Puffe, 61, 68 ; Payn pur-dew, 
42, P. purdeu$, 83 ; see Douce MS., 
No. 7, Napier, p. 46, " Payn par- 
dieu ; " Peynreguson, 112, see F. of 
C, No. 67, " Payn Ragon ; * there is 
also "Payn Fondew f> in F. of C, 
No. 69. "Payn purdew" may be 
compared with " Payn Fondew," the 
bread being lost or covered in what 
is poured on it, and possibly dissolved 
in the " Payn Fondew." In Napier 
the bread is smothered in Batter, 
here apparently in butter. See also 
Littre, "Pain, 10. Pain perdu, 
nom donne* en cuisine provinciale, h, 
la brioche frite." For "Payn Pufle," 
see Pety Pemantes. 

Paynemain, sb. t 8, 11, 52; Payne- 
maynne, 11 ; Paynemaynnys, 11 ; 
Paynmain, 83; A Paynmain, i.e. a 
loaf of the bread, 90; Payflmafi, 83. 
"Floure of payndemayn^ismentioned 
in L.C.C., p. 40. Painmain is appa- 
rently the same asManchet bread (see 
Payn purdeuz on p. 83), and its full 
form seems Pain Manchet or Pain 
de Manchet. Manchet is possibly 
"Manchet," or "Manchot," and refers 
to the short curtailed character of 
Roll bread. Note the round sops 
of the "paynemaynnys" in Recipe 
xxix, on p. 11. The gradual curtail- 
ing of the word is shewn on compa- 
rison of " Manged brede," at p. 83, 
and "Mengyd Flowre" on p. 43, 
with "Meyned flour " and "Maynch 
brede " in the Douce MS. O.F. Pain 
demaine, Latin "Panem dominicum," 
is generally given as derivation. 

Peacock, see Pecok. 

Pear, Bee Pere. 

Pecej, sb.y Pecys, 6, 7, 8, 12. Pieces. 

Pecher, Pechir, sb. f 39. Pitcher. 

Pecok rosted, 79, see Douce MS., No. 
128 ; Pokokkys, 58. 

Peions, 67, Peions rosted ', 68, Sauce for 
peiouns, 109 ; Pyionys, 58, Pigeons. 
For "Pegwns stewed, see Napier, 
p. 107, F. of C, No. 48, L.C.C., p. 14. 



Pele, 8b., 51 ; Pelys, 50. Baker's Peel. 
Pele, vb.t. t 8, Pyle, 8; Pylle, 12, 26. 

Peel * skin 
Peletre, 110,'Pellitoiy. 
Pelettys, Pellettys, sb. t 31, 34, 39. 

Pellets. 
Peny brede, 7, 18, 97, 106, Penny's 

breadth. In first example read 

" they " (=the) "peny brede." 
Pepir, sb„ 10, 15, 55 ; Pepyr, 8, 10; 

Perpir, 40 ; Piper, 109. Pepper. 
Pepyn, sb. % 32. Apparently Fr. 

P$pin, the seed of fruit, Cotgr. : it 

seems applied to the germinating 

part of the pease. 
Perase, 22, Fryid Gyngere phrase, 

? Ginger parings, or " pares." 
P^rceli, sb.y 6 ; Percely, 5, 7, 10, 15, 

Percile, 21. Fr. Persil, Parsley. See 

Parcelly. 
Perche boiled, 102, see Douce MS., 

No. 135, Napier, p. 75 ; Perchys, 

21, 26. Perch. 
Pere Wardones, Peer Wardons, 88, 

Pere Wardonys, 12, Warden Pears, 

see Wardons ; Peris in Syrippe, 87, 

58, 59 ; P. en composte, 12, 87, see 

Douce MS., No. 57, and F. of C. 

has " Peeres in corifyt" No. 132; 

Perys, 24, 25, 37, 54. Pear. 
Pereye, sb. t 32; Perre (Pease), 83, 

see Douce MS., No. 9, Blaunche 

Perreye (Pease), 32, see Warner, 

&85, "Perre" (Pease), F. of C, 
o. 70, "Perrey of Peson," Warner, 
p. 66, "Porre of Peson 9 f> L.C.C., 
p. 44, " Porry of white Pese " ; 
Blawnche Perrye (Leeks), 14, 
Blanche porrey (Leeks), 90, see 
Douce MS., No. 84, L.C.C., p. 44, 
"Blaunchyd porray" Warner, pp. 
51, 85, (Leeks). There is also 
a "Porrey Chapeleyn" in Warner, 
p. 49, made up of Onions, Olive oil, 
and Almond milk, boiled together. 
See Ducange, "Porrecta, Jusculum 
ex pons confectum," also Porrata. It 
would almost appear as if Purfo 
( = Pwrata, strained,) and Porr^e 
(= Porrata) got confused. 
Pesone, Longe Wortes de, 89, Lange 
wortes de Pesoun, 6, see Douce 
MS., No. 2 ; Pesyn, sb. t 5, 32, Whyte 



140 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOKS. 



P. in Grauey, 33; Peys de almayne, 
114. Pease. 

Pestel, sb., 6. Pestle. 

Pestelle, Siryppe pur vn, 40, see 
Napier, p. 46, "Pestelle8 of pork 
endored." Pestel is still used for a 
leg of pork. 

Pesyfi, Mortrewes o£ 90, see Douce 
MS., No. 82 ; Fr. poison, fish. 

Petelade, see Pastelade. 

Pety Pernauntes, 61, 74 (2 recipes), 
Pety Pernollys, 60. These seem to 
be the same dishes, with different 
spelling, but representing possibly 
the same word ; as the recipe on 
page 50 is the same as that on page 
74. The dish is identified with Payn 
Puff in F. of C, No. 196, and is 
glossed " Petvpanel a marchpayne M , 
in Leland's 6oUectanea y VI., page 6; 
this would give a hint of the origin 
of the word, which is equivalent to 
the Italian " Panello, any little loaf, 
bun, roul, or manchet," Florio ; the 
Puffs being like little loaves, or buns. 
There is also the Italian Panella, 
with same signification. See F. of C, 
Nos. 195, 196, "Pety Pemaunt," 
Douce MS., Nos. 8 and 58. The 
dish is spelt " Pety perneux," in the 
Banquets on pages 58, 59 of this book. 

Peuard, Brawne in, 71, Braun en 
Peuerade, 11, 12, the same dish: 
see Douce MS., No. 47, F. of C, 
No. 135, Warner, p. 79, "Boor in 
peverarde, or Boor in egredouce," 
"Recipes for the Sauce are given in 

- F. of C, No. 135, "Pevorat for Veel 
and Venyson," and in Warner, p. 
64, "Pevrate sauce." It is the French 
Poivrade, sauce made with pepper : 
see Piper. 

Pewter dysshe, 26, 42. 

Peynreguson, 112. 

Peys de almayne, 114, Pease and 
almond milk. 

Pheasant, see Fes aunt. 

Pie, see Crustade. 

Pies of Parys, 76, Pye? de pare?, 63, 
see Douce MS., No. 72, Napier, p. 
58, Paris Pies ; Gretepyes, 76. See 
Crustade. 

Pigeon, see Peiom. 

Pigge or chiken in Sauge, 72, see 



Warner, p. 56, "Pygges in sauge"; 
Pigge farced, 82, Pygge y-fareyd, 
40,seeDouceMS.,No.37. Apparently 
sucking pigs. 

Pike en galentyne, 101 (2 Recipes), 
see Napier, p. 79, Douce MS., No. 
76, No. 151 ; Pike boyled, 101, 
see Douce MS., No. 131 ; Pike in 
brase, 101, see Douce MS., No. 73, 
Napier, p. 34, "Pyk in BraisseUe," 
p. 79, "Pik in Brasy" Warner, 
p. 86, "Pik or tenche in Brasyle " ; 
there is also "Pyk in sauce" in 
Napier, p. 96. 

Pikkyll pour le Mallard, 77, see Douce 
MS., No. 19, Pickle : L.C.C., p. 31, 
has "Pykulle," (Capons). 

Piper for feel and for venysoun, 110, 
see F. of C, No. 135. Poivrade, 
Pepper Sauce. See Peuard. 

Pipes, sb., 70 ; Pypis, 8. Bronchial 
tubes : 1 lungs, generally. 

Plais, «&., 103, Plaise boiled, 103, see 
Douce MS., No. 140 ; Plays, 26, 103, 
105 ; Playse, 103. Plaice. 

Plante, vb.t., 25, 27; Plonte, 98. 
Plant 

Platere, *&., 17, 27, 41, 114. Platter. 

Platte, adj., 44. 

Plie, vb.t, 113. Ply; fold. 

Plom, vb.t, 76. Plump, into a pot. 

Plouer, 79, Plouer rost, 117, see 
Napier, p. 64 

Pocerounce, 3 ; Pokerounce, 41. 

Poche, Eyron en, 24. Poached eggs ; 
see Eggys. 

Poddyng, 41, see Puddyng. 

Poke, 114. See Pouche. 

Pokokkys, 58. Peacocks. 

Polettys, 38. Pullets. 

Pome dorreng, 58, see Warner, p. 58, 
" Pondorroge " : the " orroge " is ap- 
parently orange, the Pommes being 
coloured yellow. Pome dorres, 38, 
Pomez endoryd, 63, see Warner, p. 
89, "Pomes Dorre," II. No. 42, 
* Pomme darry," F. of C, No. 174, 
"Pomme dorryes" L.C.C., p. 37, 
" Powme dorrys" So called from the 
Pommes, or Rissoles, being endored, 
or glazed, with yolk of egg. Pomes- 
moille, 113, see Warner, p. 46, 
" Pommys modes" i.e. "Pommes 



GLOSSARY AND INDEX. 



141 



molles," or crushed apples. Pom- 
mes, 1 ; Poumes, 14 ; Ppmys, 62 ; 
Powimys, 15 ; see Napier, p. 120. 
Pompe, 31 ; Pompys, 34 ; Pumpes, 
31. All the above are variations of the 
French pomme, applied to globular 
lumps of minced meat : compare 
"Pome di sdegno, a kind of made 
dish, that Cooks make round as 
apples."— Florio. In A. the "pom- 
pys," onpage31,arecalled"pepyngis," 
or pippins. 

Pome-garnade, sb., 28 ; Pome-gamed, 
30 ; Pome-garnej, 38, applied here 
to Rissoles, in the same way as the 
Pommes above. Pomegranate. 

Pomppe, sb., 24, Pulp: A. reads 
here " Pappe." 

Pond, sb., 114. Pound. 

Poper, 63. 

Porcelle farce enforce, 58, ? Sucking 
Pig stuffed and made rich : Por- 
cefiys, 58. 

Porcyon,*&., 9, 10, 18, 25; Porcyouw, 
11, 18. Portion. 

Pore, vb.t., 16, 26. Pour. 

Porke, 6, 14, 19, etc. 

Porpeys, Sturgeon pour, 105, see 
Napier, p. 53, " Porpas, stwrgion or 
turbut," (baked) ; Firmenty with, p. 
106, Furmenty with purpaysse, 17, 
see Douce MS., No. 171, F. of C, 
No. 69, and No. 116, Napier, p. 86, 
Warner, p. 66 ; Puddyng of p., 42 ; 
F. of C, No. 108, has " Porpeys in 
broth" Porpoise. 

Porpoise, see Porpeys. 

Porrey, Blanche, 90, see Percys. 

Poshote, sb., 15, 36 ; Poshotte, 36. 
Posset. 

Possenet, sb., 23, 72. Posnet; small 
pot. " A little brasse pot or posnet, 
Ben hoper potken ofie ketel&en." — 
1660, Hexham. 

Potage, 33, 8, 10, 11, 16 ; P. on a 
fysshday, 15, 29 ; P. colde, 30 ; P. 
of Roysons, 30 ; P. de egges, 94> 
called inDouceMS.,No. 100, u Pocched 
egges"; P. of ris, 114; Brodecanelle 
Potage, i.e., Whole Cinnamon Soup, 
59 ; Compost Potage, p. 59 ; Warner, 
p. 51, has " Potage de frumenty," and 
"Potage ofrys 9 n at p. 46. 



PoteH, sb., 94 ; Potelle, 22 ; Pottel, 
73. Pottle ; two quarts. 

Poterous, 93, Potrous, 53 ; see F."of 
C, 177, "Potews," which is probably 
its right form, like Mortrews, the 
termination representing the liquid 
I: see Ducange, Potellus, O. Fr. 
Potel. The dish was made in pots, 
which were afterwards broken, but 
in this volume coffins of paste are 
used. Compare "Sachus" in F. of 
C, No. 178, made in bags (O. Fr. 
saeheV), and see Bourreys. 

Pouche,«£., 101, 102; Powche, 103; 
Pouuche, 101; Poke, 114. Poche, 
stomach of fish. 

Pouder, Recipe Cj., p. 24, powdered 
spice generally; Poudre, 113, Poudur, 
112, ? pepper; Pouder Canelle, 20, 
38, Poudre canel, 109 ; Powder Canel, 
11, P. of Canelle, 20 ; Pouder of 
Clowes, 97; Poudre of clowes, 109 ; 
Pouder of gyngere, 7, 19, Poudre of 
gyngere, 108, Poudre ginger, 109, 
Pouter Gyngere, 19, Powder Gyngere, 
8, 9, 10, of Gvngere, 20; Poudre 
piper, 109, Powder Pepyr, 10, 11, 14 ; 
Pouudre, 116 ; Clowys powder, 14 ; 
Pouder Marchaunt, Pulverized spices, 
25. 

Powajes, 27: ? meaning. A. reads 
"powares." . 

Powder, see Pouder. 

Powderd, adj., 14; Poudrid, 91. 
Powdered; salted. 

Powdryng of beef, Salting of beef, 
69 ; this probably ought to read, 
"a nijt powdryng of beef," with no 
comma there. 

Pownche, sb., 7. Paunch. 

Powre, vb.t.,81. Pour. 

Poynant, adj., 33 ; Poynaunt, 6 ; 
P. & dowcet, 7, 33. Poignant ; 
piquant with vinegar. 

Poynte with Venegre, 29. Point, 
make acid: Fr. poindre. 

Prenade, 91, in Douce MS., No. 105, 
"Brewes": possibly this ought to 
read " Prewade," and is a perversion. 

Prik, sb., 82. Prick ; pin, skewer. 

Prik, vb.L, 82, skewer ; Prycke, 36, 
Prick; stick. 



142 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOKS. 



Primrose, see Prymerose. 

Prunej, 51, 52. Prunes. 

Prymerose, 25, 29, see Napier, p. 56, 
" Prymerolle." Primrose. 

Puddyng of Purpaysse, 42: Poddyng 
of Capoun necke, 41 ; Puddyng de 
Swan necke, 61. 

Pul, vb.t., P. dry, 79, Pufl dry, 78, 
79, Pluck clean ; Pulle, 9. 

Pulcynges farce j, 58, Pulsons farce, 61, 
(misprinted Pulsous), Fr. Poussin; 
chicken. 

Pullayn, 67, Pullets. 

Pured buttur, 103, Clarified butter. 

Pygge y-farysd, 40 ; Pygge in sage, 
59, 63, see Warner, p. 56 ; Pyggys, 
25. 

Pyk, sb., 106 ; Pyke, 16 ; Pykys, 26, 
30. Pike (the fish), see Pike. 

Pyke, vb.t, 10. Pick: see Pike. 

Pyle, vb.t, 8. Peel. 

Pylt, vb.t, 21. Put. 

Pyn, sb., 7; Pynne, 11. Pin. 

Pynade, 34, see Warner, p. 49, 
"Pynade," F. of C, No. 51, " Pyn- 
nonade." Pyuenade in paste, 60, 
possibly ought also to be Pyuenade. 
The dish is named from the Pines, 
or "Pynotys" in it: the other recipes 
read "pynes." 

Pynes, sb., 95, 97; Pynej, 24, Pynej 
and clowys, 53 ; Pynys, 15. 16, 22, 
75, 91, 94 ; in this last case the Douce 
MS. reads " pepyr pynes," or whole 
pepper, but all the examples may 
not mean pepper, as the seeds of fir 
pines seem to have been used. 

Pynotys, 34 : ?Pine nuts or cones. 

Pypis, see Pipes. 

Pystelade, see Pastelade. 

Quantite, sb., 5, 6. Quantity. 
Quart, sb., 35; Quarte, 101. 
Quarter, sb., 106; Quarterefi of 

pouder caneti, 101. Quart. 
Quarter, sb., Fore q., 8 ; Quarterys, 

6, 31, 49. J 

Quarter, vb.t, 18. Cut in quarters. 
Quayle rosted, 79, see Douce MS., 

No. 115, Napier, p. 61. 



Quayle, vb.int., 27. Curdle. Fr. 

cailler. 
Quibibes, sb., 6, 37, 113; Quybibes, 

19, 20, 21 ; Quvbibej, 24> 46 ; Quy- 

bibys, 15 ; Quybybis, 13. Cubebs. 
Quince, see Quynces. 
Quyk, adj., 99. Quick; alive. 
Quynade, 27, see " Connat," in F. of 

C, No. la So called from being 

made of Quinces : compare Applade. 
Quynces, 27, 51; Q. or w ardones in 

paast, 97, 51, Quyncis, 61 ; Quyncys 

in comfyte, 58, i.e., preserved Quinces ; 

Charcfe-quynce, 12, 13 ; Chared 

coneys, or chardwardon, 106; 

Quynes bakyn, 69. 
Quyschons, 40 : compare Cushion of 

Bacon. 
Quystis scune, 8, see Napier, p. 44, 

"Quystis 11 : ?"stuue," not scune. 

Cushats, wood-pigeons : A.S. cusceote. 



Rabbit, see next, and Conyng. 

Rabette rosted, 81, see Douce MS. f 
No. 117, Napier, p. 64. 

Raisins, see Rasonys. 

Rales, 69. Rails; Landrails. 

Ransched, pp., 39. Rinsed. 

Rape, 113, Rapeye, 30, 48, (Fish), see 
Douce MS., No. 164, "Rapes," Na- 
pier, p. 118, "Rape of Fisshe" ; 
Rapes, 95, Rapeye, 16, (two Recipes), 
28, 43 (Fruit), see F. of C, No. 83) 
L.C.C., p. 16, Napier, p. 109, "Rape, n 
Warner, p. 49, "Rapee, n and II. 
No. 49, " Rapyr »• ; Kapeye of 
Fleysshe, 25, see Warner, p. 45. 

Rasinges, Rasons, 88. Shavings, 
parings. 

Rasonys, sb., 23 ; Raysonys, 30, 52, 
of Coraunce, 14; Raysounys, 51; 
Reysons of coraunce, 75 ; Potage of 
Roysons, 30, Roysons of Corauns, 
16; Roysouns Coraunce, 22; Roy- 
sonys, 16, 22, 28, of coraunce, 13, 31, 
of Corauns, 15, 29 ; Currants. Grete 
Reysons, 97, G. Revsynges, 75, Gret 
Roysonys, 47, Raisins, in modern 



Rastons, 62, 98, see Douce MS., 
No. 63, "Rastonurs." "Raston: A 
fashion of round, and high Tart, 



GLOSSARY AND INDEX. 



143 



made of butter, egges, and cheese." 
A. spells this " Rascons," and glosses 
it as " ra^coris," and the word might 
be " Kastouurs," above. 

Ray boiled 103, see Douce MS., No. 
145, "Rygh buille." 

Raynollej, 42; Raynollys, 3; see 
Warner, p. 81, " Raynecles." WR J^f" 
molles de blanc de chapon. The 
brawne of a Capon, Raisins of the 
Sunne, and marrow shred all to- 
gether, then made into little cakes or 
leaues, and fryed with seame or Hogs 
sewet, and serued vp with sugar 
strewed on them." — Cotgr. 

RedWyne, 10, 26; R. Rosys, 24; 
Rede Rose, 29, R. vyne, 112. 

Reke, vb.t., 29. Reek ; heat over coals. 

Remenaunt, sb., 12. Remnant. 

Renge, sb., 38. Ring Strainer. 

Renne, vb.int., 11, 26, 44. Ronne, 
pp. 44. Run. 

Renneng, adj., 44 ; Rennyng, 6, 9, 15, 
19; Rennyng*, 94. Running; fluid. 

Rennyn, vb.inf., 25. Run. 

Rew, sb. t 53. Row. 

Rejge, 8b. , 11. The Ray: see Bay. 

Ris, sb., 114; Rys, 22, see Napier, 
p. 82, p. 108, L.C.C., p. 16 ; Rys 
moilles, 113, see Warner, p. 46; 
Potage of ris, 114* see Warner, p. 
46 ; Rys Moleyn), 59 ; Warner, pp. 
62, 74, has also " Rys Lumbarde " ; 
Rys, 12, 14 ; Flowre of rys, 13. 

Risschewes, de frute, 97, Risshewes, 
93 (Fruit), Ryschewys in lente, 43, 
(Fruit and Fish), R. close et Fryej, 
45, R. close, 112, (Fruit), see Douce 
MS., No. 88, F. of C, No. 182 ; Rissh- 
shewes, 98; Risshewes de Mary, 
85, Ryschewys of marow, 44, see 
Douce MS., No. 87 ; L.C.C., p. 39, 
Warner, p. 65 (Flesh). Now Ris- 
sole : see Goto., "Rissolle: A Iewes 
eare ; or Mushrome thats fashioned 
like a Demie-circle, and grows cleauing 
to trees ; also, a small and delicate 
minced He, made of that fashion." 

Roche, sb., 20, Breme or Roche boiled, 
102, see Douce MS., No. 138 ; Rochys, 
21. Roach. 

Roddys ende, 52. Rod's end. 

Rolle, Oruste, 46. 



Roppis, sb., 39. Ropes; guts. See 
Holme, II. vii. 132, " Sheeps Belly, 
or Intrals, the puddings called strings, 
or Rope." 

Rose, Rede, 29 ; Red Rosys, 24. 

Roseye, 24. So called from being 
made of Roses ; see Warner, II. 
No. 41, and No. 47, F. of C, No. 52 : 
Warner, No. 47, has no roses in it. 

Roste, vb.t., 12, 14, Roste him on a 
gredire, 103. Roast. 

Rosty, vb.int, 15. Roast. 

Rove of the mouthe, 78. Roof. 

Rowys, 114. Roe of fish. 

Ruchet, 60, see Napier, p. 74, 
"Gurnard or Rochet." Comp. Fr. 
Rochau. Rock-Fish, and see Florio, 
"Roccate, the Cook-fish, or Sea- 
thrush." 

Ruschewys, 45, see Risschewes. 

Ryal, adj., 40; Ryalle, 21, 22; 
Ryaly, 2, Ryally, 17. Royal : Roy- 
ally. The Cookeries also say "fit 
for a lord " ; in same sense. 

Rybbys, sb., 6, 8, 10, 26. Ribs. 

Ryght, adv., 5; Ryth wyl, 20, 
Rythte smal, 37 ; Ryjt fatte, 35, 
Ryjth smal, 46 ; Ryjth, 6, 8. 

Rynsche, vb.t., 24. Rinse ; splash. 

Ryjt, see Ryght. 



Saake, Bruette, 27, Sake, 2 ; see 
Warner, p. 78, "Broxoet seeke." 

Sad or flatte, 92. Douce MS., and. 

Saf , vb.t., 39. Save. , 

Saferon, sb., 70 ; Saferoun, 43 y 
Safron, 5, 9 ; Safrouw, 6, 10, 13, 15, 
26 ; Sapheron, 70. Saffron. 

Saffron, see Saferon. 

Safroun, vb.t., 32, 49. Saffron. 

Salmon fressfi boiled, 102, see Douce 
MS., No. 132 ; Samon roste in 
Sauce, 102, see Douce MS., No. 169, 
Napier, p. 97 : Salmond, 102 ; 
SamoncC 100 ; Samoun, 16. 

Salome, Capoun in, 33 ; Salomene, 21 ; 
Soupes of Salomere, 35. 

Salt, vb.t., 32, 41. 

Samaca, 59, Frutoure Samata, 62 ; 
see Napier, p. 45, "Samartard." 



144 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOKS. 



The first example should be Sarnata. 
The Fritter is made of Flour, Curds, 
Eggs, Cream, and Grease, and is 
served with sugar on it. 

Sardeyne?, 24. 

Sareson, Bruette, 19 ; Sang saraser, 
113, Sauke Sarsoun, 30. Fr. Sarra- 
sine ; Saracen. 

Sauces ; Sauce alepeuere, 108, Sauce 
oylepeuer, 77, see Napier, p. 77, 
"S.alipe);"I>o\iceM8.,'8o.94,"Sauuce 
alpeuere " ; Sauce camelyne, 109, 
Sauce gamelyne, 77, see Douce MS., 
No. 92, " Sauuce camelyn, 11 Napier, 
p. 48, " Sauce c. for quaylle," F. of 
C, No. 144, "Souse camelyne? 
L.C.C., p. 30 ; Sauce Galentyne, 77, 

108, see Douce MS., No. 98, Napier, 
p. 77, F. of C, No. 138, L.C.C., p. 30, 
Warner, p. 64; Sauce gauncile, 
110, Sauce sermstele, 77, (called 
" S. gauncell," in Douce MS., No. 93), 
see L.C.C., p. 29, Warner, p. 66, 
" Oaunsell for gese" (see Oauncdy) ; 
Sauce gynger, 77, Sauce gingyuer, 

109, see Douce MS., No. 96, 
Napier, p. 77, F. of C, No. 139, 
Warner, p. 64, L.C.C., p. 52 ; 
Sauce for a gos, 109 ; Sauce newe 
for malardis, 110, see L.C.C., p. 27, 
and Black sauce, below ; Sauce for 
peiouns, 109 ; Sauce percely, 110 ; 
Sauce rous, 109, Fr. Mousse, 
ruddy ; Saug saraser, 113 ; Sauke 
Sarsoun, 30, see F. of C, No. 84, 
" Sawse Sarzyne," or Saracen ; Sauce 
sermstele, see S. gauncile; Sauce 
Sorell, 77, Surelle, 110, Fr. Surelle, 
Sorrel ; Sauce for shulder of moton, 
110 ; Sauce for stokefysshe (two 
Recipes), 109; Sauce Verte, 77, 

110, Green Sauce, see Douce MS., 
No. 95, Napier, p. 77, F. of C, No. 
140, Warner, p. 64; Black sauce 
for Capouns y-rostyde, 110, see 
F. of C, No. 137, Warner, p. 64, 
on which page is "Black Sauce for 
Mallard " (for which also see F. of C, 
No. 141); White sauce for capons 
y-sode, 110, see F. of C, No. 136, 
L.C.C., p. 28, Warner, p. 64 : F. of 
C. No. 30, has also "Sawse madame." 
See Pihkyl and Piper, in Glossary. 

Sauereye, sb., 18. Savory. 



Sauge, 28, Sauoge, 41, compare 

"Sawgeat," in F. of C, No. 161 ; 

Pigge or chiken in Sauge, 72; 

Sawge, 2, 6, 8, 10, 17, 20, 28. The 

herb Sage. 
Sauke Sarsoun, 30, see Sauces. 
Saunderys, sb., 12, 15, 16, 21 ; Sawn- 

derys, 8, 12, 13. Saunders. 
Saused, pp., 72. Soused; salted. 
Sawcere, sb., 22, 42. Saucer. 
Sayn, vb.int., 33. Say. 
Scalde, vb.t., S. with hey or strawe, 

99, 100 ; Skalde, 18, 32. Scald. 
Schake out, 109, Shake out. 
Schale, vb.t., 13. Shell. 
Schap, sb., 53. Shape. 
Scharpe, adj., 38. Sharp. 
Schene, vb.t., 23. Skin; shell: A. 

reads Skene. 
Schepe, sb., 40. Sheep. 
Schere, vb.t., 40; Shere, 11. Shear; 

slice. 
Schevres, sb., 40. Shivers; thin 

strips. 
Schoche, vb.t., 101 ; Skoche, 101. 

Scotch ; notch. 
Schoppe, vb.t., 9. Chop. 
Schorge, vb.int., 42. Scorch. 
Schort & >ikke, 52. 
Schouyl, sb., 53. Shovel. 
Schrede, vb.t., 8, 10, 29; Screde, 30. 

Shred. 
Schrympe, sb., 42, Shrimp; see 

Shrympes. 
Schul, vb., 30, Shall; Schuld, 19 f 

Should ; Schuldyst, 46, Shouldest 
Schulle, sb., 24, 42; Schullys, 23. 

Shell. A. reads "schyllys." 
Sculle, sb., 80 ; SkoH, 79. Scull. 
Sefe, sb., 20; Seve, 32; Her syue, 

Hair sieve, 113. 
Self, adj., 19, 23; Selue, 32; Sylf, 

14. Self ; same : compare Selfsame. 
Senglere, Teste de, marme\ , 57, Boars 

head and tusks ; Blanhe singider 

leche, 69. Fr. Sanglier, Wild boar. 
Serge, vb.t., 20, Sift: spelt Sarge in A. 
S*rue forth (to table), 6, 10, etc. ; 

Seruyst in, 6. 
S^myce, sb., 34. Service. 



GLOSSARY AND INDEX. 



145 



Sesyn, vb.t, 19 ; S. vp, 10, 12. 
Season. 

Sethe, vb.t, 6, 12; Sejun, pp., 32; 
Sith, 90 : Seth, vb.int, 99. Seethe. 
Sethe in Recipe vj, p. 6, is sette 
in A. 

Sew, 8b., 18; Colouryd S. without 
fyre, 20, see Napier, p. 38; Sew 
trappe, 54, so called from the pans 
or Trams in which it is made. These 
are solids. Sew lumbarde, 58. Sewe, 
9, 17, 20, 99. Broth. Mayhew & 
Skeat derive Sew from A.S. seaw, 
, but it is suspiciously like the French 
Ciue\ or Siue\ see Cotgr. ; compare 
"Hams in a sewe," L.C.O., p. 21, 
Hares or Conynges in seue, Warner, 
p. 78, where it represents Ciue\ At 
the same time Mr. Mayhew does not 
think it possible, due*, however, is 
used for a liquid without onions, 
upon page 49 : see Errata. 

Sewet, 8b., 41. Suet: see Stcet. 

Shrympes, 103. Shrimps. 

Sirip, sb. , 12, 40 ; Sirippe, 15 ; 
Siryppe pw un pestelle, 40 ; Syrip, 
11 ; Syrippe, 3, 15, 21, Peris in 
syrippe, 87; Wardonys in syryp, 
7 ; Syryppe, 13, 21. Syrup. 

Sith, vb.t, 90. Seethe. 

Sitting to, 107. Sticking. 

Skalde, vb.t., 18, 32; Skaldyd, 24; 
Skladdyd, 25. Scald: see Scalde. 
On p. 32, ?read "skalde hem" [with 
hey]. 

Skaldyng hote, 17. 

Skeme, vb.t, 7. Skim. 

Sket, sb., 102. Scotch: Douce MS. 
has skoch. 

Skilfully thik, 101, Skylfully >ikke, 
8, Reasonably, nicely thick. 

Skluce, sb. , 25. Viscous compound. 

SkoH, sb., 79. Skull. 

Skore, vb.t., 25 ; Skoure, 45. Scour. 

Skrape, vb.t. f 18. Scrape. 

Skym, vb.t, 22. Skim : see Skeme. 

Skymer, sK, 44; Skymoure, 17, 54. 

, Skimmer. 

Skyn, sb.^ 11 ; Skynne, 26 ; Skynnys, 
26. Skin. *>>**> 



Slake, adj., 21 (Flake is printed 
here). Slack ; lukewarm : warm 
in A. 

Sle, vb.t., 78, 79. Slay. 

Slepyr, adj., 23. Slippery; greasy. 
A. reads "sliper." 

Smal, adj., 10; Smaller or grett^r, 15. 

Smoth, adj., 77. Smooth. 

Smyte, vb.t., 6, 13. Smite; chop. 

Snyte, 80 ; Snyte rost, 117 ; see 
Douce MS., No. 120, L.C.C., p. 35, 
" Wodcok, sny)t, andcurlue," Napier, 
p. 65, "Snyt rost"; Snytys, 58. 

Sode, adj., 42. Sodden. 

Soft, adv., 22, Softe, 17, Softly; 
Soffter and soffibere, 17. 

Soke, vb.t, S. out, 25. Soak out; 
let soak out. 

Sokingly, adv., boile s., 72. Soak- 
ingly ; thoroughly : still used thus. 

Sole, boiled, rost, or firyed, 103, see 
Douce MS., No. 141 ; Napier, p. 71, 
has "Sole vn brase." 

Soperys, sb., 46, 55. Suppers. 

Soppes Dorre, 90, Soupes dorrees, 
114, Soupes dorye, 11, S. dorroy, 
11, see Douce MS., No. 51, F. of C, 
No. 82, Warner, p. 46, L.C.C., p. 
14, Napier, p. 107 ; Lyode Soppes, 
11 ; S. Jamberlayne, 11, Soppes 
pour Chamberleyne, 90, see Douce 
MS., No. 52, " Soupes Chamberlayn" ; 
Oyle Soppys, 12, 96, see Douce MS., 
No. 158; Soupes of Salomere, 35; 
see also Napier, p. 51, and F. of C, 
No. 129, "Soupes in galentyne" ; 
Soppis, 1, 52. Cotgr. : " Soupe : A 
sop, or peece of bread in broth : also 
pottage, or broth (wherein there is 
store of sops, or sippets)." Soup is 
still served thus in France. 

Sorcell rosted 79, see Douce MS., No. 
118, " Sarcelle rost," Napier, p. 64 ; 
Teal. 

Sore Sengle, 25. This looks like 
"Single Sore," compare " Jussell 
sengle," in Napier, p. 26 : see, how- 
ever, Cotgr., " Soringue : Eele sauce 
made of fried Onions, and toas-bread 
steeped in Pease broth, then strayned 
with wine, vinegar, Cinnamon, Ginger, 
and other spices, all put into a pot 



10 



146 



FIFTEENTH CENTUBY COOKERY BOOKS. 



with the Eeles cut into peeces, and 
(after a little seasoning with saffron 
and salt) throughly boy led." Elys 
in Sorre, 89, see Douce MS., No. 25. 
The Fr. eord means reeked or made 
red, as the saffron would do. Com- 
pare blandeeore. 

Sotelte, sb., 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 
63, 67, 68, 69. Subtlety, or device 
to deck the Table : see Forewords. 

Sothe, pp., 37, 46; Sojrin, 6, 46, 
Sothyn, 7, 9, 11. Sod ; sodden. 

Soundes, sb., 96 ; Soundys, 26. Cod 
Sounds, or swimming bladders. 

Soups, see Soppes. 

Sowsyd, adj., 12. Soused; pickled. 

Spaulde de Motoun, 59, Spawdys de 
Motoun, 63. Spaud ; shoulder. 

Spaune,*fl., 14, Spawne,90. Spawn. 

Spete, sb., 8, 15, 38, Spete of haselle, 
39. Spit 

Spete, vb.t., 38 j ben spetid, 38. Spit; 
put on spit. 

Spic*re, sb., 113; Spicerie, 113; 
Spicerye, 30 ; Spycery, 19, 28, 35. 

Splat, adj., 101. Split. 

Splat, vb.t., 105; Splatte, 104. Split. 

Splentes, sb., 73. Splints. 

Spone, 8b., 41. Spoon. 

Sprynge, vb.t. , 31 . Springe ; sprinkle. 

Spycis, 28. Spices. 

Spyneye, 20, see Warner, II. No. 46, 
F. of C, No. 57 : so named 
from O.Fr. Espine, Hawthorn. See 
Haw\orrt. 

Starape, vb.t., 6, 7, 16, 38, 77. Stamp ; 
grind. 

Stekys of venson) or bef, 40. 

Stept, 77, Steeped. 

Ster, vb.t., 46; Stere, 8, 9, 14, 26; 
Sture, 26 ; Styre, 23. Stir. A. 
reads " styue " (stew), in Recipe xiiij, 
page 8. 

Stipe, 16: see readings at end of 
Forewords. 

Stockfish, see next. 

Stokfissfi, 89, S. in sauce, 100, see 
Douce MS., No. 31 ; Stokfysshe, 10 ; 
Stokkefysshe, 26. Stockfish. See 
Cotgr. : "Merlus, ou Merluz : A 
Mellwell, or Keeling, a kind of small 
Cod, whereof stockfish is made." 



Modern French Merluche, Haddock. 

Stockfish seems to have been made 

of all sorts of Cod, and even of 

Porpoise. 
Stonde, vb.int., 88, 109. Stand ; be 

stiff. 
Stonding, adj., 95 ; Stondyng, 16, 

95 ; Stondynge, 16, 109. Standing ; 

stiff. 
Storgeoun, sb. f 13; Storieoun, 57; 

Storion in brothe, 13 ; see Sturgeon. 
Straw, vb.t., 23 ; S. on, 15 ; Strawe 

Canel a-boue, 16. Strew. 
Strawberye, 29 ; Strawberys, 29 ; 

Stawberye, 2 ; Streberies, 75. 
Strayne, vb.t., 6, 8, 11. Strain 

through strainer. 
Straynour, sb. f 6, 11 ; Straynoure, 

6, 10, 11, 41 ; StraynouryS ende, 44 ; 
Straynowr, 5, 6 ; Straynowre, 5, 10 ; 
Strain woure, 16. Strainer. 

Strek, vb.t, 95. Strike. 

Strype, vb.t., 27. Strip. 

Stew, see Stwed. 

Stuff, Stuffe, adj., 71. Stiff. 

Stuffe, vbt., 32, 40, 41 ; Stuffyst, 
40. Stuff with forcemeat. 

Stuffur, sb., 76. Stuff for stuffing. 

Sture, see Stere. 

Sturgeon boiled, 104, see Warner, p. 
47, Napier, p. 71 ; Sturgeon buille 
ou turbutt, 117 ; Storion in brothe, 
13, Sturgeon in broth, 104, see 
Douce MS., No. 80 ; Sturgeon pour 
porpeys, 105, see Douce MS., No. 
181, "Sturgeon ou purpays ou turbut 
furniey? Napier, p. 53, "Porpas, 
sturgion, or turbut n ; Storioun leche, 
37. 

Sturmye, 26. 

Stwed Beef, 72, see Douce MS., No. 
3 ; Stwed Mutton, 72 ; Capons 
Stwed, 72 ; Partrich stwed, 78, 
Pertrich stewyde, 9 ; Smale Birdys 
y-stwyde, 9. Stewed. 

Styke, vb.t., 31. Stick. 

Styre, see Stere. 

Sucking Pig, see Porcelle. 

Suet, sb., 76; Svette, 115; Swet, 
40 ; Swette, 40 ; Sewet, 41. 

Sugre, sb., 11, "Whyte s., 7, Blake s., 

7, Whyte ofer blake, 51 ; S. of AH- 



GLOSSARY AND INDEX. 



147 



k. . saunder, 39, Alysaundre, 50, from 
!e Alexandria ; S. of Siprys, 16, Sugur 

>f of Cipris, 95, from Cyprus ; Sugre in 

confyte, 32, ? comfits, A. " Sugre of 
; confitens " ; Sugre water, 7 ; Sugowr 

water, 85, Sugar water, 91 ; Sugur, 

85, White s. or blak, 73. Murray's 

Diet, gives Black Sugar as Liquorice, 

but ? unrefined sugar. 
Sumdele, adv., 21, 49. Somedeal ; 

somewhat. 
Suththe, adv., 112, 113. Afterward. 
Swan rosted, 78, see Douce MS., No. 

106, " Cignet roste" 
Sware, adj., 36, Square : see also 

L.C.C., p. 45. 
Swenge, vb.t., 40, 55. Swing; 

mix. 
Swerde, sb., 6, 14. Sward; rind. 
Sweteblanche, 112. 
Swyne, sb., 8, 70; Swynys grece, 

41. Swine ; pig. 
Swythe, adv., 39. Quickly. 
Syfte, vb.t, 38. Sift. 
Sylf , see Self. 

Synamoun), sb., 34. Cinnamon. 
SyneweB, sb., 53 ; Syneys, 37 ; jynes, 

37. Sinews. 
Syngnettys, 57. Cignets. 
Syrip, sb., 11; Syrippe, 15, 21; 

Wardonys in syryp, 7. See Strip. 
Syrup, see Strip, Syrip. 
Syue, sb. , 113. Sieve. 
Syjth, 8b. 9 32. Sight ; quantity. • 



Take, pp., 52. 

Talbottys, 19. See Warner, JT., 

No. 9, " Harts in talbotays," F. of C, 

No. 23, "Hares in talbotes." 
Talow, sb., 39; Talour, 39. Tallow; 

fat 
Tannye, 26. Compare Fr. " TannS, 

Tawnie." — Cotgr. The dish is of 

that colour. 
Tansey, 86, Tansye, 45, see Douce 

MS., No. 176, L.C.C., p. 50, "Tansy 

calce." So called from the Tansy 

in it. 
Tart de Fruyte, 98, see Douee MS., 



No. 101 ; Tartes of Frute in lente, 
48 ; Tartus, 75 (Cheese), Tartes de 
chare, 47, 52, Tartus of Flesh, 74, 
see Douce MS., No. 45, "Tartes de 
chare," Napier, p. 52, F. of C, No. 
168, " Tartes of Flesh " ; Tartes of 
Fysche, 47, see F. of C, No. 170, 
Warner, p. 48, " Tartys of Fysch owt 
of Lente " ; Oraunt tartez, 58, Grete 
pyes, 76. 

Tauorsay, 114. 

Taylej, 27, Taylys, 2, Taylours, 94, 
Tayloures, 16, Taylowres, 1 ; see 
Douce MS., No. 104. See Cotgr., 
" Taillis : A Hachee ; or made dish of 
Creuises, the flesh of Capons, Chickens, 
or Veale, bread, wine, salt, veriuyce, 
and spices ; also a kind of gellie, as 
the dish is here. 

Taylid Datys, 55. Cut Dates. 

Temper, vb.t., 10, 19, 20; Tempore, 
9, 11 ; Temperyd, 12, 20. Mix. 

Tenche in bruette, 23, ; T. in cyueye, 
23, see F. of C, No. 120, Napier, p. 
80 ; T. in Sawce, 23, see Napier, 
p. 117, L.C.C., p. 25, "Tenche in 
graue " ; Tenche in brase, 105, see 
Napier, p. 71, Warner, p. 86, Douce 
MS., No. 150 ; Another diting of a 
tenche, 105 ; Tenchys, 26, 30. 

Tendure, ad}\, 105. Tender. 

Tese, vb.t., 10, with a pyn, 21, 43, 
114. Tease ; shred small. 

Tesid, adj., 89 ; Tesyd, 22. Teased ; 
shred small. 

Teste de cure, 112. 

pan, adv., 6, 7; Jmnne, 6, 7, 10, 24; 
>enne, 9, 10, 24. Then. 

pe, pron., 6. Thee. 

per-an, 29, Thereon ; J?er-yn, 18, 20, 
47, J?er-ynne, 7 ; fer-on, 6, 11, 20, 29 ; 
)>er-to, 6, 18, 29 ; Therue-owt, 36, 
throughout ; feer-vppe, 30, 49, There- 
on ; J?er-vppe-on, 18, 49, Upon it ; 
]?er-WiU, 29. 

pes, adj., 34. These. 

They, art., The, 7 : see Note 3. 

Thikke, vb.int., 91. Thicken. 

pinne, adj., 12; Jynne, 109. Thin. 

pombe, sb. , 21. Thumb. 

porgfc, prep., 101 ; J?orw, 5, 6, 9, 22 ; 



148 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOKS. 



Jorwe, 12, 22, 47 ; furgh, 108, 109 ; 

J?urwe, 108 ; J?urj, 109. Through, 
powsand, adj., 43. This is a curious 

mistake on the part of the transcriber 

and should be " a dozen " : he took 

the "dd.," as Douce MS. has it, for 

twice five hundred. See "dd." on 

page 67. 
prifti Mylke of Almaundys, 31, 

>rifty M., 56 ; >ryfty, 34 Not too 

strong. 
Thrawe, vb.L, 101. Throw, 
pridde, adj., 49; Thrudde, 113; 

>ryd, 49 ; >rydde, 30, 50. Third. 
Throte-boti, sb., 79, Adam's Apple ; 

top of windpipe, 
pro we j>orw straynour, 8. 
pryis, adv., 11. Thrice, 
pwerte, adv., 31. Thwart; athwart. 
To, adv., 6, 11,22. Too. In Recipe xj, 

p. 7, A. reads "do hem to-gedir," 

and " to " has the same meaning : 

dele note 7. 
To, adj., 7, 14, 21. Two. 
To-geder, adv., 38, 40; To-gedere, 

7, 21 ; To-gederys, 5, 13, 38, 55. 

Together. 
Tolle, vb.L, 40. See Toyle. 
Toste, vb.L, 11, 30. Toast. 
Toste«, sb., 12. Toasts. 
Tow, adj., 49. Tough. 
TowTes 46 
Toyle, vb.L, 16, 24, 54; Tolle, 40. 

Rub : Twille in Douce MS. : see 

Trull. 
Tojenst, prep., 112. Against; in. 
Trappe, Sew, 54. Compare Traps, 

pan or dish : the Pudding, a kind 

of Yorkshire, is made in two pans. 
Trayne rost, 97, 60 ; Bee Douce MS., 

No. 157 ; Treyne, 7. Train : so 

called from its length. 
Tre, sb., BoH of tre, i.e. wood, 92. 

See Treen. 
Treen, adj., 13; T. dyssche, 53; 

T. bolle, 16. Wooden ; spelt "Treyn) " 

in Douce MS. 
Trenchours, Trenchourys, 41. Tren- 
chers ; slices. Fr. Trencheoir, Cotgr. 
Tripe de Mutton, 82, Trype de 

Motoun, 7, see Douce MS., No. 4 ; 

T. of Turbut or of Codelynge, 18, 



T. de Turbut, 106, see Douce MS., 

No. 170. 
Troundej, sb,, 42. Round slice; 

compare Trundle, Halliwell. 
Troute, boyled, 102, see Douce MS., 

No. 133, Napier, p. 69; Troutys,20; 

Trowtys, 21. 
TruH, vb.L, 76, 95. Troll, trowl; 

twist : Douce MS. Twille. 
Trusse, vb.t., for roasting, 81. 
Trye, vb.L, 42 ; Tryid,^?., 27. Try; 

pick, pulL Fr. Trier. 
Tryude, pp., 74. This seems to mean 

broken up, or rubbed up in the 

sugar : but Recipe xx, page 51, reads 

"y-tryid folkys, i.e., separated from 

the white. 
Turbot. Turbut, 16, 18 ; T. boyled, 

105, see Napier, p. 73; T. roste 

eusauce, 106, see Douce MS., No. 

168, Napier, p. 96 ; Tripe of Turbut, 

see Tripe. 
Twyis, adv., 11. Twice. 
Tylie, adv., 12. Till. 
Tyne, sb., 49, 50 ; Tynez of batter, 

49. Compare Tine of a fork ; spike. 



Vanne, vb.L, 70. Fan. 

Veal, see Vele. 

Vele, kede, or henne in Bokenade, 13, 
Autre Vele en bokenade, 13, see F. 
of C, No. 118 ; Vele rosted, 81, see 
Douce MS., No. 123 ; Piper for feel 
and for venysoun, 110. 

Venegre, sb., 7, 10 ; Vynegre, 8, 10, 
72, 109 ; Winegre, 110. Vinegar. 

Venison, see next. 

Venson) or bef, Stekys of, 40 ; Veny- 
son with Furmenty, 6, Furmenty 
with v., 70, see Douce MS., No. 180 ; 
V. in Broth, 10, 70, 63, see Douce 
MS., No. 38 ; Nombles, or Nomblys 
of V., 70, 10, see Douce MS., No. 
39, F. of C, No. 54, Warner, p. 53, 
and II. No. 12 ; V. y-bake, 61, 73, 
see Douce MS., No. 40 ; Venysoun, 
1, 10, 49, V. rosted, 81, see Douce 
MS., No. 124, Napier, p. 66 ; Veny- 
soun Roste, 64, has " in syrup " added 
to it, in A. 

Verge sauce, 102, 104, Vert Sauce. 



GLOSSARY AND INDEX. 



149 



Yergeous, sb,, 72; Yerious, 7, 8, 9; 
109 ; Veriows, 13 ; Vertious, 115 , 
Veryous, 18, 20. " Verjuice is the 
juice of Crabs, or sour apples " ; 
Holme, III. iii. 85. 

Yergyussauce, 103, 104. Yerjuice- 
sauce. 

Yernage, sb., 22 ; Yemage pimej, 28. 
" Vernaccia, a kinde of strong wine 
like malmesie or muskadine, or 
bastard wine ;" Florio, 1598. The 
1659 ed. says, " A kind of winter- 
wine." Compare It. Yernaccio, a 
severe winter : seeMAYHEW. & Skeat. 

Yesselle, sb., 17, 20; WesseH, 91. 
Yessel; Fr. Vaisselle. 

Viaundbruss, a Potage, 67 ; Viaund 
Ryal, 57 ; Viaunt Ardant (probably 
brought in with flaming spirits), 61 ; 
Vyaund de cyprys bastarde, 21, 
Vyaund de ciprys Ryalle, 21, Vy- 
aunde de cyprys in lente, 28, see 
Napier, p. 102, F. of C, Nos. 97, 98, 
Warner, pp. 58, 76, L.C.C., p. 8 ; 
Vyande Ryalle, 32, see F. of C, No. 
98, Warner, p. 76 ; Vyand leche, 
36, 37, 38, see Napier, p. 41, " Cold 
leshe viand v ; Vyaunde Furnej san; 
noum, de chare, (two Recipes), 49 ; 
Vyand Ooderygge, 63 ; Vyand Mot- 
legh, 63. Fr. Viande, Meat. 

Yinegar, see Venegre. 

TJmbles, see Nombles. 

Ynce, sb., 107; Ynces, 106. Ounce. 

Ynnetfc, adv., 84, 85; Ynne)>e, 38, 
43, 44 ; Scarcely. 

Ynderoeifi, prep., 105 ; Ynder-nethe, 
7, Underneath. 

Yfi-pullud, 99, Unshred. 

Yntrusse, vb.t., 41. Entrusson spit. 

Votrelh), 69, is probably the Dish 
mentioned in Napier, p. 44, as 
" Votose v ; the liquid 11 would give 
Votrews, and possibly Votews ; after 
Mortrews. Votose is made up of 
Gobbets of Marrow, cut Dates, sugar, 
powdered Ginger, Saffron, Salt, which 
is put between leaves of paste, closed, 
baked, and then cut in pieces two 
inches square : it is also called 
Votese. 

"Urchins, see Yrchons. 



.Yyn, sb., 104; Yynnes, 106, Fin. 
Vyolet, sb., 5, 29 ; Vyolette, 23, 29. 

Violet: 

Waffires, 39; Waffrys, 39, 63. Wafers. 

Walkys in brnette, 23 ; Walkys, 60 ; 
Welkes boyled, 106, see Douce MS., 
No. 164, Napier, p. 74 ; Wylkys, 60. 

Walnotys, 109. Walnuts. 

War, adj., 38. Ware : aware. 

Wardons, 87, Wardones, 106; War- 
donys in Syryp, 7, see Warner, 
p. 72 ; Quyncis or Wardonns in 
past, 61 ; Chardewardon, 12 ; Chare 
de Wardone, 88. Warden Pears. 
"A Warden is like a Quince, but 
brown and spotted ; of them there 
are several sorts."— Holme, Armory, 
II. iii. 47. 

•Ware, vb.int., 42. 

Warme hot, 8. 

Wnshe, vb.t., 5; Wassche, 5; Wasshe, 
10 ; Waysshe, 25 ; Whas, 112 ; Whess, 
1 12, 1 14 ; Wasshen, pp., 84 ; Wasshem, 
18, 20, 23, Wash 'em. 

Wast, vb., 25. Waste. 

Wastel, sb., 22; Wastel bred, 112, 
Wastilbrede, 28, Wastylbrede, 28, 
Wastel bread : bread made of fine 
flour: Anglo-Fr. Wastel, Oastel, Fr. 
Gasteau, Odteau. 

Water, sb., 13; Watere, 42; Watre, 
109. 

Watteryd, adj., 26. Watered ; soaked, 
to get the salt out. 

Way, sb., 73. Whey. 

Wesing, sb., 80; Wesyng, 116, 117. 
Weasand. 

WesseH, sb., 91. Yessel. 

Wete, sb., 105. Wheat. 

Wete,vb.t., 11,48, 105; adj.,4S. Wet. 

Wexe, vb.int., 8, 17, W. hard, 35, 
Wexyth, 35. Wax ; grow. 

Whan, conj., 18. When. 

Wheder, adj., 33, Whether ; which- 
ever. 

Whele, conj., 23. While. 

Whelks, see Walkys. 

Whete, sb., 6, 15; Wete, 105. Wheat. 

Wheber-euer, 131. Whither ever, 
Wherever. 



150 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOKS. 



Whetyn floure, 33. Wheaten flour. 

Whey, sb., 56 ; Way, 73. 

White of eggea, 74, 75; Whyte 
Mortrewes, 19, 28 (Pork), see Napier, 
p. 106, Warner, p. 62.L.C.C., p. 13, 
F. of C, No. 46; W. pesyn in 
grauey, 33 ; Whyte of eyroun, 11, 
14, W. of lekys, 14, W. brede, 11, 30, 
W. sugre, 7, 8. For White Sauces, 
see Sauces : see also Wyn. 

Whyle, A gret, 26, A long time ; A 
good whylys, 42. 

Wine, see Wyn. 

With-owte, 48 ; W*tA-ynne & w*tA- 
owte, 47. 

Wodecok, 80, see Douce MS , No. 
121, Napier, p. 64, " W. rost," L.C.C., 
p. 35, " W. sny% and Curlue." 

Woldyst, 20, Wouldest. 

Wole, rJ.tii*., 31 ; Wolle, 26; Wolt, 
33. Will, Wilt. 

Wollen, adj., 32. Woollen. 

Wombe, $b. 9 39, of fish, Belly ; 38, 
39, of sheep, Maw, stomach ; Wombe 
side vpward, 131. 

Wort, 8b. , 107, Unfermented beer. 

Wortes de pesoun, Lange, 6, Longe 
W. de Pesone, 89 (Pease), see Douce 
MS., No. 2 ; Lange Wortys de 
chare, 5, see Douce MS., No. 1 ; 
Whyte wortes, 6 ; Hare in Wortes, 
69 ; Buttered Wortes, 69, see 
Napier, p. 84* see also Napier, 
p. 82, "Wortis." 

Wryng, vb.t., 29 ; Wryng borw 
straynoure, or clojre, 22, 28. Wring. 

Wyl, adv., 6, 7, 11, 20, 26; Wylle, 
26. WelL 

Wylkys, 60. Whelks. 

Wyn, sb.y 20, Rede wyn, 20; Wyne, 
7, 10, 20, Red wyne, 10, 26, Wyne 
crete (of Crete), 48, Swete Wyne, 22, 
35, Whyte Wyne, 15, 35, Bochelle 
Wyne, 15. Wine. 

Wyth,i?r^.,13,With; Wyth-owte,12. 



Y-bake, 51, Y-baken, 54, Baked; 
Y-blaunchyd, 31. Blanched; Y- 
bontyd, 38, Bunted, sifted ; Y-bounde 
wiU Floure of Rys, 39, Made stiff; 



Y-boylid, 10, 18, Y-boylyd, 6; Y- 
braid, 48, Pounded ; Y-broylid, 47 ; 
Y-choppid, 33, 46 ; Y-chowchyd, 26, 
Y-couched, laid ; Y-clepid, 43 ; Y- 
closyd, 48, Closed (of a pie) ; Y-corven, 
23, Cut ; Y-coryd, 46, Cored ; Y-cutte, 
51 ; Y-dicyd, 22, Cut into dice ; Y- 
draw, 6, 9, 10 r 11, 15, 33, Y-drawe, 26, 
Drawn through strainer, see the verb 
Draw ; Y-dressid, 8, 11, Dressed for 
table; Y-farsyd, 40, Stuffed; Y- 
fastenyd, 50 ; Y-gratyd, 15, 19 ; Y- 
grounde, 13, 18, 23, 110 ; Y-hackyd, 
65 ; Y-harded, 99, Y-hardid, 52, Har- 
dened ; Y-heled, 112, Y-helid, 40, 
Y-helyd, 54, Covered; Y-hole, 22, 
this may be uncut, with the stones 
in ; possibly skinned, Hulled ; A. also 
reads thus : Y-kremyd, 40, Crimmed, 
crumbled ; Y-kyt, 55, Cut ; Y-leched, 
86, Y-lechyd, 35, Leched, cut in 
strips ; Y-like, 20, Alike ; Y-mad, 6, 
12, 51, made ; Y-makyd, 49, Made ; 
Y-mellid, 55, Y-mellyd, 28, 55, 
Mingled ; Y-mengyd, 38, Menged, 
Mixed ; Y-mynced, 6, 14, 18, Y-myn- 
syd, 13, Minced; Y-opened, 114; 
Y-pede. 29, ? Y-pa«^ed, pared (A. also 
reads thus); Y-pekid, 41, Y-pikyd, 
37, Picked ; Y-peywtid, 29, Painted ; 
Y-pileyd, 37, Peeled; Y-rollyd, 48, 
Rolled ; Y-rosted, 106, 114, Y-rostyd, 
23, 38, Roasted; Y-schred, 49, Y- 
schredyd, 29. Y-scredde, 40, Shred- 
ded ; Y-Skaldyd, 22, Scalded; Y- 
smete, 55, Smitten, chopped ; Y- 
sode, 19, Y-sothe, 23, 37, 65, Sodden, 
boiled ; Y-stekyd, 52, Y-stykyd, 35, 
Stuck ; Y-strainyd, 17, Y-straynid, 
55, Strained through strainer : Y- 
stwyde, 9, stewed ; Y-swengyd, 25, 
Y-swonge, 35, 38, Swung, shaken, 
mixed ; Y-take, 88, Taken: Y-tallyd, 
27, Y-taylid, 27, 33, Cut, Fr. Tailler; 
Y-temperyd, 7, 17, 28, Mixed ; Y- 
tryid, 11, 16, 36, 51, 52, Picked, 
separated, the last example appa- 
rently meaning "strained through 
strainer;" Y-wasche, 7, Y-wasshe, 23, 
1 14, Washed ; Y-wateryd, 43, Soaked ; 
Y-wet, 102, 106, Y-wette, 52, Wet, 
steeped ; Y-wreten, 21, Written ; 
Y-wronge oute, 84, 91, Wrung 
out. 



GLOSSARY AND INDEX. 



151 



Yeest, 96, Yeast. 

Y-fere, 18, Together. 

Y-liche moche, 70, A like much, or 
quantity. 

Ynoufi, adv., 75 ; Y-now, 5, 6, 8 ; 
Ynowe, 19, 35. Enough. 

Yrchons, 3; Yrchouns, 38, 61, 62. 
Urchins ; hedgehogs. See Warner, 
p. 66, " Urchonys." So called from 
being made bristly with Almonds. 

Yren, sb. , 93. Iron. 

Ys, 17, Is. 

Yt, 15, 17, 35. It. 



}elow, adj., 20, 30. Yellow. 

}ere, sb., 15, 29, 47. Year. 

^est, sb. , 10, 44. Yeast. 

}et, pron., 31. It. 

|if, vb.L, 22, 29, 112. Give. 

}if, conj., 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 30, 47. If. 

Jolkes of egges, 109 ; Jolkys, 8, 9, 

11, 12, 19, 29. Yolks. 
}ong, adj., 54; Jonge, 31. Young. 



}ynes, sb., 37. Sinews. 



STEPHEN AUSTIN AND SONS, PRINTERS, HERTFORD. 



! 



felg (ftitjgM 0txt £Mg. 



^iftmth-tyminrii <tofor2-§MR 



HARLEIAN MS. 279 (ab. H30), & HAUL. MS. 4016 (ab. hso), 



WITH 



EXTRACTS FROM ASHMOLE MS. 1429, 
LAUD MS. 553, & DOUCE MS. 55. 



EDITED IJY 

THOMAS AUSTIN. 



LONDON: 

IH-BLISHED FOE TIIE EAELY ENGLISH TEXT SOCIETY 
BY K. TtttJE^EIi & CO., 37 akd 59 LTTDQATE HILL, E.C. 



MDCCC^XX XVIII, 



Price Ten Shillings, 



(ftarls (ftitjjtMi flfcxt j&rrielg. 



COMMITTEE OF MANAGEMENT: 
DIRECTORS DJL FEEDERICK J. FTJBNITALL, M.A. 

TREASURER: HENRY B. WHEATLlJY, ESQ. 
HON, SEC: W. A. DALZIEL, Esq.. 67, Victoria Road, Finsbury Park, London, >t 

HON. SEC. FOR AMERICA : Prof. F. J. CHILD,HarvaTd Coll., Cambr., Mass., U.S.A. 

ALEXANDER J. ELLIS, B.A., F.R.S. Rev. D*. RICHARD MORRIS. M 
H. HUCKS GIBBS, .M.A. DR. J. A* H. MURRAY, M.A. 

S. J. HERRTAGE, B.A. Prof. NAPIER, MA., Ph.D. 

Prof. E. KOLBING, Ph.D. EDWARD B. PEACOCK, Esq. 

SIDNEY L. LEE, B.A. Rev. Prof. W. W. SKEAT, LL.D. 

Rev. Prof. J. RAWSON LUMBY, fc.D. Dr. HENRY SWEET, M.A. 
Rev. Prof. J. E. B. MAYOR, M.A. Dr. W. ALDIS WRIGHT, M.A. 

Prof. J. ZUPITZA, Ph.D. 
(With power to add Workers to tlieir number), 

BANKERS: 

THE UNION BANK OF LONDON, 2, Princes Street, London, E.C. 



Half*the Publications for 1866 (13, 14, 16, 16, 18, 22) are out of print, but will be gradually 
reprinted. Subscribers who desire the issue for 1866 should send their guineas at once to the 
Hon. Secretary, in order that other Texts for 1866 may be sent to press. 

The Publications for 1864-1871 {one guinea each year, save those fir 1866 now half 
out of print, two guineas) are : — 

li EARLY ENG LT 5 H A LL1TERAT 1 V E POE M S, ab. 130& aji. cd. R. Morris, IBs. 1864 

2. A] i Ml/It. nh. lull, h'.l. F.,1. Funnel]. M.A. 4*. ■ - ^ 

a. LA u h s u ux tii k i.» f w n i, t>v KVNi;is,fcc., ism. rd. p. riaU. 4s. 

«. 81 ] I G A W A YN E A N D TH E G K B 1 ■: N K N I ( 'i H T r at* . ] MM. oil. R. Morris. 108. „ 

B. HUME'S ''■KTU-fiUAPNll-: ini-iri'i^-Tinih-i.ftln- i :ue, ab. 1617, ed. H. B. Wheatley. 4b 1805 

6. LANCELOT ur THE LAIK.AU.LSfHi. t'd. licv.W.W-Skeiit. fii. 

7. GKNKSJS AND EXODUS, ab. IS* J. iil.ll, Morris *a.tii. 

8. MOUTH ARTHURE,al>.14i>, od. E.Eroet. 7b. , ^ 

9. THYXNE uN I'lIAUC't- R'B ft <>lf K* , a d, ieiuo, ed. Dr. Kinsley and F. J, Furnivall, M.A. 10s. 

10. Mi: kLIN, alL 14*0, Fan I . M. H . R. Wuoatley. la, W. 

11. LYM'I SAl ''si HON Alu'llh .40., 15W fc Part L.wL J.Snmll. MA, 33. 

12. WkltiliT'l! CHASTE Wll-E^.jilj. JjuJ.^E l\ J, l-'uriilvnll. M,A, la. 

15. 8EINTE MAH1J KIM:T(l. lJ^-i:i:;iK «rd. iU;\ ■ O. r..ckriyji«. I860 

14. KY KG 110 K.N , F 1 .i > k is a N D ltLA M 'III-: I' I J ■ I . IE . it, < l t1. flev. J. R. Lumby, B.D. 

15. POLITICAL. KFI.U.HOUS, AM) LOVE POEMS, hL f- J. 1 nmivall M.A. 

16. Tttl BOOK <ir tiUINTE ES3ENCE,ttb. 1^70 «,i. K.l J Liniivall. M.A. 

17. PABALLBL EXTRACTS FROM Sfl SlSS. OF PIERS THE PLOWMAN, ed. Bev. W. Skeat. [/«/««/.] „ 

18. HALI 3lK|l»kNHAJ>.&b. iMfl, od, Rev. O. Ooekoyu q, 

19. LI M> i ■-. 5 A Y S M O N A U CH E , Ac. - Purt 1 1 .. tt& J . S tr. nil . M, A . 3*. 6d. [/« /r»***.] 

20. HAM POLE'S ENGLISH PBO&H TRKA'HSFS ml. Rev. (J. O.Perry. Is, {In print ^ „ 

21. M'i Kl.J'S'. PartIL,ML. Il.». WheaHwr. 4b - ['"J"™*.] 

22. PAKTENAY OE LUSlG>fEN. ed. Hiw, W. W. Skatkt* 

28. DAN MICH EL*9 A YE N E 1 T E O E I N W V T F 1 310, tj . Fov . Dr. R. Morris. 10s. (id. [/* ^r»«/.l 

24. HYMNS TO THE TIRGIN ANH CHRIST, An., lib. |4J«i, l.y 1\ J. FurnivalL M.A. 88. 1807 

26. TiJ: STAC10N8 OF ROME, THE PILGRIMS' tjEA-VOYAGE. ed. F. J. Furnivall, M.A. 18. 

25. KKl.ir:L<>iis J ' 1 1: 1 !> JN V\i\\*v. AND VEl!SEJni», 3 tvn. ^d. Rev. Q. G. Perry. 2s. 

27. Ll-.viNS'S HANirULTJS VOCABULOKUllj UQUed. U. is. Wbeatley. 12s. 

28. WILLIAM'S YlsluN OF MEUSTiiE M.OWMAM. 1M^ i,u + Text A. ed. Rer. W. W, Skeat. Ss. 

29. BAKL'Y FN<illsH HOMILIES {ei>i. lS?fl-afl a.uj, Fart I. Edited by B Morris. 7s. 

80. Plv.KcT. tin: i-|.'j|'i;mm.\Ns i-jm:i-i:. <-.-i. )r,-v. \y. \\. s-uat, 2s. 

81. MYRi"s UUTL1-S OF A PARISH I'RIi-sT. in Vt -i ■■ J' A.D., ed. E. Peacock. 4s. 1868 

82. EA M 1 . Y EM.UMI MEALS \ N J t \! A \ - M : US ■. T 1 1 E I L< > K E OF NORTUBE OF JOHN RUSSELL. THE 

imkLa ul RIiUU^NiiL'. CURTASYE AAli DEMI ANOB, THE BABEES BOKK, URBANI- 
TATI8. «c..ed. F. J. FurnivaU, M.A. 12s. _ , m ^ mm ...... »» 

88. THE KNIGHT DE LA TOUR LANDRY. A Book for Daughters, ed. Thomas Wright, MJk. 8s. 

84. EARLY ENGLISH HOMILIES (before 1800 A.D.). Part II., ed. B. Morris, LL.D. 8s. _ n 

85. LYNDESAY'S WOBK8, Part III. : The Historie and Testament of Squyer Meldrum. ed. F. Hall. 9a „ 

86. MERLIN. Part III. Ed. H. B. Wheatley. Esq.; on Arthurian Localities.J. 8. S. Glennie, Esq. 12s. I860 

87. 81 K DAVID LYNDESAY'S WORKS, Part lV^ Ane Satyre of the Three Estaits. Ed. F. Hall. 4s. „ 

88. WILLIAM'S VISION OF PIEBS THE PLOWMAN. Part II. Text B. Ed. W. W. Skeat, 10s. fid. 

89. ALLITERATIVE ROMANCE OF THE DESTRUCTION OF TROY. Ed. by D. Donaldson, and 

the Rev. G A. Panton. Part I. 108. 6d. , ., 

40. English Gilds, their Statutes and Customs, 1389 a.d. Ed. Toulmin Smith, and Miss L. T. 

Smith.with an Essay, on « Gilds and Trades-Unions,' by Dr. Lujo Brentano. 21*. 1870 

41. William Lauder's Minor Poems. Edited by F. J. FurnivaU, M.A. 3a. „ 

42. Bernardus De Cuba Rei Famuliaris, &c. Ed. by J. ft. Lumby, M.A. 2*. „ 

43. Ratis Raving, and other Moral and Religious Pieces. Ed. J. R. Lumby, M.A. 3*. „ 

44. The Alliterative Romance of Joseph of Arimathie, from the Vernon MS.; ^ithWynkyn 

de Worde's and Pynson's Lives of Joseph; ed. Rev. W. W. Skeat, M.A. 5a. 1871 

45. King Alfred's West-Saxon Version of Gregory's Pastobal Care, edited from two MSS., 

with an Eng. transl., by H. Sweet, Esq., B.A., of Balliol College, Oxford. Part I. 10*. |t 

46. Legends of the Holy Rood, Symbolb of the Passion and Cross Poems. Ed. Rev. R, 

Morris, LL.D. 10*. 

47. Sir David Lynde?ay's Works. Part V. Ed. Dr. J. A. H. Murray. 3*. 

48. Thb Times' Whistle, and other Poems, by R.C, 1616, ed. by J. M. Cowper, Esq. 6*. 



I 

1 



dfarlj <fouM 9Eext 




The Early English Text Society was started by Dr. Furnivall in 1864 
for the purpose of bringing the mass of Old English Literature within 
the reach of the ordinary student, and of wiping away the reproach under 
which England had long rested, of having felt little interest in the 
monuments of her early life and language. 

The E. E. T. Soc. desires to print in its Original Series the whole of 
our imprinted MS. literature ; and in its Extra Series to reprint in careful 
editions all that is most valuable of printed MSS. and early printed books. 

The Society has issued to its subscribers 142 Texts, most of them of 
great interest; so much so indeed that the publications of its first two 
years have been reprinted, and those for its third year, 1866, will follow. 

The Subscription to the Early English Text Society, which constitutes 
Membership, is £1 Is. a year [and £1 Is. additional for the Extra Series], 
due in advance on the 1st of January, and should be paid either to the 
Society's Account at the Head Office of the Union Bank, Princes St., 
London, E.C., or by Money Order (made payable at the Chief Office, 
London, and crost ' Union Bank '), or by Cheques or Postal Orders, to 
the Hon. Secretary, Wm. A. Dalziel, Esq., 67, Victoria Koad, Finsbury 
Park, London, 'N. All Members who subscribe through other channels 
than the Hon. Sec. are askt to send their names to him, in order to insure 
an early insertion of them in the List of Members. 

Those Members in the United States of America who want their 
Texts posted to them, must add to their prepaid subscriptions Is. id. 
yearly for the Original Series, and Is. for the Extra Series. 

July, 1888. The Society is now again level with its work. The 
Texts of both Series for 1887 have been issued, together with the first in 
the Original Series and two for the Extra Series for 1888, while the 
whole of the other two Texts for the Original Series are in type. More 
Members and money are much needed. 

The issue in the Original Series for 1888 will probably be : — 
89. A Treatise on Virtues and Vices, from the unique Stowe MS., 

ab. 1200 a.d., ed. Dr. F. Holthausen. Part I, 8s. 
Anglo-Saxon and Latin Bule of St. Benet (interlinear Glosses), ed. 

fir. H. Logeman. [At Press. 

Two Fifteenth-Century Cookery-Books, edited from the MSS. by 

Thomas Austin. [At Press. 

The issue for 1888 in the Extra Series will be : — 
LH. A Dialogue against the Feuer Pestilence, 1564, 1573, by Wm. 
Bullein, edited from the first edition after the Author's death, 1578, 
by Messrs. A. H. and Mark Bullen. Part I, 10s. 
LIIL Thomas Vicary's Anatomie of the Body of Man, 1548, edited 
from the unique copy of 1577, with an Appendix of Vicary Docu- 
ments, Extracts from the Guildhall Eecords, &c, &c, by F. J. and 
Percy Furnivall. Parti, 15*. 
(And probably a third Text, either Vicary, Part II, or a Caxton reprint.) 



2 Early English Text Society. Original Scries. 

The following Texts are at Press for the Original Series for 1889 
and after years : — 
Bede's Liber Scintillarum, with Anglo-Saxon Glosses, edited from 

the MSS. by E. Khodes, B.A. [At Press. 

Eadwine's Canterbury Psalter, from the MS. in Trinity College, 

Cambridge, ab. 1150 A.D., edited by F. Harsley, B.A. [At Press. 
Sir David Lyndesays Works, Part VI, and last, ed. W. H. S. Utley. 

[At Press. 
Cursor Mundi, Part V, Introduction, Notes, and Glossary, ed. Rev. 

Dr. K. Morris. [Part printed. 

The Lay Folk's Catechism, by Archbp. Thoresby, ed. Canon Simmons 

and F. D. Matthew. [Text printed. 

Capgrave's Life of St Katharine, from the unique MS., ed. Dr. C. 

Horstmann. [At Press. 

Melusine, the prose Romance, ed. from the unique MS., ab. 1500, by 

A. K. Donald, B.A. [At Press. 

Aelfric's Metrical Lives of Saints, MS. Cott. Jul. E 7, Part in, ed. 

Prof. Skeat, Iitt. D., LL.B. [At Press. 

Vioes and Virtues, from the unique Stowe MS., ab. 1200 a.d., ed. Dr. 

F. Holthausen, Part II. 
The Master of Game, a Booke of Huntynge for Henry V when Prince 

of Wales, edited from the MSS. by Thomas Austin. [At Press. 

Thomas Robinson's Life and Death of Mary Magdalene, ab. 1620 a.d. 

[At Press. 
Queen Elizabeth's Translations, from Boethius, &c, edited from the 

unique MS. by Walford D. Selby. [At Press. 

The following Texts are preparing for the Original Series : — 
Anglo-Saxon Glosses to Latin Prayers and Hymns, edited by Dr. F. 

Holthausen. 
An Anglo-Saxon Martyrology, edited from the 4 MSS. by Dr. G. 

Herzfeld. 
Aelfric's Metrical Lives of Saints, MS. Cott. Jul. E 7, Part IV, ed. 

Prof. Skeat, Iitt. D., LL.D. 
All the Anglo-Saxon Homilies not accessible in English editions, in- 
cluding those of the Vercelli MS., ed. by Prof. Napier, M.A., Ph.D. 
The Exeter Book (A.-Sax. Poems), re-edited from the unique MS. by 

I. Gollancz, B.A. Cambr. 
Early English Verse Lives of Saints, Standard Collection, from the 

Harl. MS., ed. Dr. C. Horstmann. 
Supplementary Early English Lives of Saints, ed. Dr. C. Horstmann. 
The Early and Later FestiaJls, ab. 1400 and 1440 a.d., ed. Dr. C. 

Horstmann. 
Early English Deeds and Documents, from unique MSS., ed. Dr. 

Lorenz Morsbach. 
Merlin, Part IV, containing Preface, Index, and Glossary. Edited by 

H. B. Wheatley. 



Early English Text Society. Extra Series. 3 

Beowulf, a critical Text, with Introduction and Glossary, ed. Prof. 

Zupitza, Ph.D. 
Pilgrimage of the Lyf of Manhode, in the Northern Dialect, ed. S. J. 

Herrtage, B.A. 
Early English Homilies, 13th century, ed. Bev. Dr. B. Morris. 
The Bule of St. Benet ; 5 Texts, Anglo-Saxon, Early English, Caxton, 

&c., ed. Dr. B. Morris. 
A Chronicle of England to 1327 A.D., in Northern verse (42,000 

lines), ab. 1350 A.D., edited from the unique Gottingen MS. by M. 

L. Perrin, B.A. 

The following Texts are at Press for the Extra Sbriks for 1889 and 
later years : — 

Bp. Fisher's English Works, Part II, with his Life and Letters, ed. 

Bev. Bonald Bayne, B.A. [At Press. 

Early English Pronunciation, by A. J. Ellis, Esq., F.B.S. Part IV, 

the present English Dialects. [At Press. 

Thos. Vioarys Anatomic of the Bodie of Man, 1548, edited from the 

ed. of 1577 by Dr. F. J. Furnivall and Percy Furnivall of Barts. 

Part II. [At Press. 

Hoccleve's Minor Poems, from the Phillipps MS., ed. F. J, Furnivall, 

M.A., Ph.D. [At Press. 

The following Texts are preparing for the Extra Sbries : — 
A Parallel-text of the 6 MSS. of the Ancren Biwle, ed. Prof. Dr. E. 

Kolbing. 
Barbour's Bruoe, ed. Bev. Prof. W. W. Skeat. Part IV. 
A Dialogue against the Feuer Pestilence, 1564, 1573, 1578. By 

W. Bullein. Ed. A. H. and Mark Bullen. Part II. ' 
Lonelich's Holy Grail, ed. F. J. Furnivall, M.A., Ph.D. Part V. 
The Destruction of Jerusalem, Text A, edited from the MSS. by Dr. 

F. Kopka. 
Hoccleve's Compleint, from the Cosin MS. at Durham, ed. F. J. 

Furnivall, M.A., Ph.D. 
Bobert of Brunne's Handlyng Synne, a.d. 1303, re-edited by Dr. 

Furnivall. 
I Bobert of Brunne's Chronicle of England, from the Inner Temple 

MS., edited by Dr. Furnivall. 
Caxton's englishing of the Eneydos, a.d. 1590, edited by M. T. 

Culley, M.A. 
Caxton's Book of the Ordre of Chyualry, ab. 1484, with Loutfut's 

Scotch copy of it, ed. W. Bayne, B.A. 
Caxton's Godfrey of Bullogne, or Last Siege of Jerusalem, 1481. 
Caxton's Curial, 1484-5, from the French of Alain Chartier, ed. F. 

S.Ellis. 

* 



4 
LIST OF THE SOCIETY'S BOOKS. 



ORIGINAL SERIES. 

The Publications for 1866 (except Nos. 17, 19, 20, 21, 23) are out of print 
Subscribers who desire the issue for 1866 should send their guineas at once to the 
Hon. Secretary, in order that other Texts for 1866 may be sent to press. 

The Publications for 1864 {one guinea) are: — 
1 Early English Alliterative Poems, ab. 1860 a.d„ e<L Rev. Dr. R. Morris. 16*. 
2*. ArthurTab. 1440, ed. F. J. Furnivall, M.A. 4*. __„__- . 

3. Lauder on theDewtie of Xyngia, fto., 1556, ed. f • Hall, D.C.L. 4*. 

4. Sir Gawayne and the Green Knight, ab. 1360, ed. Rev. Dr. R. Morris. 10*. 

The Publications for 1865 (one guinea) are : — 

5. Home's Orthographie and Oongrnitie of the Britan Tongue, ab. 1617, ed. H. B. Wheatley. U. 

6. Lanoelot of the LaflT ab. 1500, ed. Rev. Prof. W. W. Skeat. 8*. 

7. Genesis and Exodus, ab. 1250, ed. Rev. Dr. R. Moms. 8*. 

8. Morte Arthure, ab. 1440, ed. E. Brock. 7*. 

9. Thynne on Ohauoer»s Works, ab. 1598, ed. Dr. Kingsley and F. J. Furnivall, M.A. 10*. 

10. Merlin, ab. 1440, Part I., ed. H. B. Wheatley. 2*. 6dT. 

11. Sir D. Lyndesay's Works : The Monarche, ed. J. Small, MX Part I. 3*. 

12. The Wright's Chaste Wife, ab. 1462, ed. F. J. Furnivall, M.A. 1*. 

The Publications for 1866 (two guineas,— only Nos. 17, 19, 20, 21 and 23 in 
print : the rest will be reprinted slowly) are : — 

13. Seinte Marherete, 1200-1330, ed. Rev. O. Cockayne. „ , „ ,. . 

14. Xyng Horn, Floris and Blanoheflour, Ac., ed. Rev. Prof. J. R. Lumoy. 

15. Political, Relgious, and Love Poems, ed. F. J. Furnivall, MJL 

16. The Book of Quinte Essence, ab. 1460-70, ed. F. J. Furnivall, MJL 

17. Parallel Extracts from Twenty-nine MSS. of Piers the Plowman, ed. Rev. Prof. W. W. Skeat 1*. 

18. Hali Meidenhad, ab. 1200, ed. Rev. O. Cockayne. 

19. Lyndesay's Monarohe, to.. Part II., ed. J. Small, M.A. 38. Gd. 

20. Hampole's English Prose Treatises, ed. Rev. G. 6. Perry. Is. 

21. Merlin, Part II.. ed. H. B. Wheatley. 4*. 

22. Partenay or Lusignen, ed. Rev. Prof. W. W. Skeat. 

23. Dan Michel's Ayenbite of Inwyt, 1340, ed. Rev. Dr. R. Morris. 10*. 6d. 

The Publications for 1867 (one guinea, — Nos. 24 and 26 out of print) are: — 

24. Hymns to'the Virgin and Christ; the Parliament of Devils, Ac., ab. 1430, ed. F. J. Furnivall, 
M.A. 3*. 

25. The Sta^on« of Bx>me, the Pilprim»'S^-voyag«.withCneneMaydenhod,ed. F.J. Furnivall, M.A ^ 3*. 

26. Religious Pieoes in Prose and Verse, from R. Thornton's MS. (ab. 1440), ed. Rev. G. 6. Perry. 2s. 

27. Levins's Manipulus Vooabulorum, 1570, ed. H. B. Wheatley. 12*. 

28. William's Vision of Piers the Plowman, 1362 a.d. The earliest or Vernon Text; Text A. 

Parti. Edited by Rev. Prof. W.W. Skeat. 6*. 

29. Early English Homilies (ab. 1220-30 a.d.) from unique MSS. in the Lambeth nnd other 
Libraries. Parti. Edited by Rev. Dr. R. Morris. 7*. 

30. Pierce the Plowman's Credo, ed. Rev. Prof. W. W. Skeat. 2*. 

The Publications for 1868 (one guinea) are: — 
81. Myro's Duties of a Parish Priest, iu Verse, ab. 1420 A.D., ed. E. Peacock. 4*. 

32. Early English Meals and Manners, ed. from Harleian and other MSS. by F. J. Furnivall, 
M.A. 12*. 

33. The Knight De La Tour Landry (from French of a.d. 1372), ab. 1440 a.d. A Father'* Book for 
his Daughters, ed. from Harl. MS. 1764 and Caxtou's version, by Thomas Wright, M.A. 8*. 

34. Early English Homilies (before 1300 a.d.) from unique MSS. in the Lambeth and other 
Libraries. Part II. Edited by Rev. Dr. R. Morris. 8*. 

35. Lyndesay's Works, Part III. : The Historic and Testament of Squyer Meldrum, ed. F. 

Hall, D.C.L. 2*. 

The Publications for 1869 (one guinea) are: — 

36. Merlin, Part III. Edited by H. B. Wheatley, Esq.; with an Essay on Arthurian Localities 
by J. S. Stuart Glennie, Esq. 12s. 

37. Lyndesay's Works, containing Ano Satyre of the Three Estaits. Part IV. Edited bv 
F. Hall, D.C.L. 4a. 

38. William's Vision of Piers the Plowman, Text B. Part II. Edited from the MSS. by the Rev 
Prof. W. W. Skeat, M.A. 10s. 6d. 

39. The Alliterative Romance of the Destruction of Troy, translated from Guido de Colonna. 
Part I. Edited by J>. Donaldson, Esq., and tho Rev. G. A, Panton. 10*. 6U 



The Early English Text Society's Books. Original Series. 5 

The Publication* for 1870 (one guinea) are : — 

40. English Gilds, their Statutes and Customs. 1389 A. D. Edited by the late Toulmin Smith, Esq.. 
and Miss Lucy Toulmin Smith, with a Preliminary Essay, in 5 parts, on 'The History and 
Development of Gilds, and the Origin of Trades-Unions,' by Dr Lujo Brentano. 21*. 

41. William Lauder's Minor Poems. Edited by F. J. Furnivall, MA. 3*. 

42. Bernardus Be Oura Eei Famuliaris, with some Early Scottish Prophecies, &c. Prom a MS. 
KK. 1. 5, in the Cambridge University Library. Edited by Rev. Prof. J. E. Lumby, M.A. U. 

43. Katis Having, and other Moral and Religious Pieces in Prose and Verse. Edited from the 
Camb. Univ. MS. KK. 1. 5, by Rev. Prof J. R. Lumby, M.A. 3*. 

The Publications for 1871 (one guinea) are: — 

44. The Alliterative Romanoe of Joseph of Arimathie, or The Holy Grail : a fragment from the 
Vernon MS. ; with Wynkyn de Worde's and Pynson's (a.d. 1526 and 1520) Lives of Joseph ; 
edited by the Rev. Prof. 1V. W. Skeat, M.A. 5*. 

45. King Alfred's West-Saxon Version of Gregory's Pastoral Care, edited from 2 MSS., with an 
English translation. Part I., by Henry Sweet, M.A., Balliol College, Oxford. 10*. 

46. Legends of the Holy Rood, Symbols of the Passion and Gross. Poems in Old English of the 11th, 
14th, and 15th centuries. Edited from MSS. by the Rev. Dr. R. Morris. 10*. 

47. Lyndesay's Works, containing his Minor Poems, Part V., edited by Dr. James A. H. Murray, - 
with a critical Essay by Professor Nichol of Glasgow. 3*. 

48. The Times' Whistle, and other Poems, by R. C, 1616 ; edited by J. M. Cowper, Esq. 6*. 

The Publications for 1872 (one guinea) are ; — 

40. An Old English Misoellany, containing a Bestiary, Kentish Sermons, Proverbs of Alfred, Re- 
ligious Poems of the 13th century, edited from the MSS. by the Rev. Dr. R. Morris. 10*. 

50. Xing Alfred's West-Saxon Version of Gregory's Pastoral Care, edited from 2 MSS., with an 
English translation, Part II., by Henry Sweet, M.A., Balliol College, Oxford. 10*. 

51. The Life of St Juliana, 2 versions (1230 A.D.), with translations ; edited from the MSS. by the 
Rev. T. O. Cockayne and Mr. E. Brock. 2*. 

52. Palladius on Huabondrie, from the unique MS., ab. 1420 A.D., Part I., ed. Rev. B. Lodge. 10*. 

Tim Publications for 1873 (one guinea) are : — 

53. Old English Homilies, Series II., from the unique 13th-century MS. in Trinity Coll. Cam- 
bridge, with a photolithograph ; three Hymns to the Virgin and God, from a unique 13th- 
century MS. at Oxford, a photolithograph of the music to two of them, and transcriptions of 
it in modern notation by Dr. Rimbault, and A. J. Ellis, Esq., F.R.S.; the whole edited by 
the Rev. Dr. Richard Morris. 8*. 

54. The Vision of Piers Plowman, Text C (completing the 3 versions of this great poem J, with an 
Autotype ; and two unique alliterative poems : Richard the Redeles (by William, the author 
of the Vision) ; and The Crowned King ; edited by the Rev. Prof. W. W. Skeat, MJL 18*. 

55. Generydes, a Romance, edited from the unique MS., ab. 1440 A.D., in Trin. Coll. Cambridge, 
Part 1., by W. Aldis Wright, M.A., Trin. Coll. Cambr. 3*. 

TJie Publications for 1874 (one guinea) are : — 

56. The Gest Hystoriale of the Destruction of Troy, in alliterative verse ; Part II., ed. by D. Donald- 
son, Esq., and the late Rev. G. A. Panton. 10*. 6d. 

67. The Early English Version of the "Cursor Mundi"; in four Texts, Part I., edited by the Rev. 

Dr. R. Morris. With 2 photolithographic facsimiles. 10*. 6d. 
58. The Bliokling Homilies, 971 a.d., Part 1., ed. Rev. Dr. R. Morris. 8*. 

The Publications for 1876 (one guinea) are : — 
69. The «• Cursor Mundi," in four Texts, Part II., ed. Rev. Dr. R. Morris. 15*. 
60. Meditaoyuns on the Soper of Our Lorde (perhaps by Robert of Brunne), edited from the MSS. 

by J. M. Cowper, Esq. 2*. 6d. 

The Romanoe and Prophecies of Thomas of Eroeldoune, printed from five MSS.; edited by Dr. 

James A. H. Murray. 10*. 9d. 

The Publications for 1876 (one guinea) are : — 

62. The "Cursor Mundi," in four Texts, Part III., ed. Rev. Dr. R. Morris. 15*. 

63. The Bliokling Homilies, 971 A.D., Part II., ed. Rev. Dr. R. Morris. 4*. 

64. Francis Thynne's Embleames and Epigrams, a.d. 1600, ed. F. J. Furnivall, M.A. 4*. 

65. Be Domes iiage (Bede's De Die Judicii), &c, ed. Rev. Prof. J. R. Lumby. 2*. 

The Publications for 1877 (one guinea) are : — 

66. The " Cursor Mundi," in four Texts, Part IV., with 2 autotypes, ed. Rev. Dr. R. Morris. 10*. 

67. Hotes on Piers Plowman, Part I., by the Rev. Prof. W. W. Skeat, M.A. 21*. 

The Publications for 1878 (one guinea) are : — 

68? The "Cursor Mundi," in 4 Texts, Part V., ed. Rev. Dr. R. Morris. 25*. 

69. Adam Davie's 5 Dreams about Edward II., fto., ed. F. J. Furnivall, M.A. 5s. 

70. Generydes, a Romance, Part II r , ed, W. Aldis Wright, M.A, 4*, 



61. The 



6 The Early English Text Society's Boohs. Original Series. 

The Publications for 1879 {one guinea) are: — 

71. The Lay Folk's Mass-Book, 4 Texts, ed. Rev. Canon Simmons. 25#. 

72. Falladius on Husbondrie, englisht (ab. 1420 a.d.). Part II. Ed. S. J. Herrtage, B.A. 5*. 

The Publications for 1880 (one guinea) are : — 

73. The Blickling Homilies. 971 a.d., Part III., ed. Rev. Dr. R. Morris. 8*. 

74. Wycliffe's English Works (those hitherto imprinted), ed. F. D. Matthew. 20*. 

The Publications for 1881 (one guinea) are: — 

\ ei Rev. Prof."§k:eat. ~io»V 

Tlte Publications for 1882 (one guinea) are: 

77. Beowulf, the unique MS. autotyped and transliterated, edited by Prof. Zupitsa, Ph.D. 25*. 

78. The Fifty Earliest English Wills in the Court of Probate, 1387-1438, ed. F. J. Furoivall.M.A. 7*. 

The Publications for 1883 (one guinea) are: — 

. .. Cing Alfred's Orosius, from Lord Tollemaohe's 9th cent. Ml „ _, . 

Extra volume (large). Facsimile oftheEpinal Glossary, 8th century, ed. H. Sweet, M. A. 15*. 



75. Oatholioon Anglioum, an English-Latiu Word-book, A.D. 1483, ed. S. J. Herrtage* B.A. 20*. 

76. Aelfrio's Metrical Homilies, Part I., with a modem englishing, ed. 



79. Sing Alfred's Orosius, from Lord Tollemaohe's 9th cent. MS., Part I, ed. H. Sweet, M.A. 13*. 
„ . *.. „ } ra) -...-. . ^ . „ . ._ 

The Publications for 1884 (one guinea) are : — 

80. The Anglo-Saxon Life of St. Catherine and its Latin Original, ed. Dr. Einenkel, M.A. 12*. 

81. Piers Plowman : Notes, Glossary, Ac. Part IV, ed. Rev. Prof. Skeat, M.A. 18*. 

The Publications for 1885 (one guinea) are : — 

82. Aelfrio's Ketrioal Homilies, Part II. with a modern Englishing, ed. Rev. Prof. Skeat. 12*. 

83. The Oldest English Texts, ed. Hy. Sweet, M.A. 20*. 

The Publications for 1886 (one guinea) are : — 

84. Additional Analogs to * The Wright* s Chaste Wife/ No. 12, by W. A. Clouston. 1*. 

86. The Three Kings of Cologne. 2 English Texts, and 1 Latin, ed. Dr. C. Horstmann. 17*. 

86. Prose Lives of Women Saints, ab. 1610 aj>., ed. from the unique MS. by Dr. C. Horstmann. 12*. 



The Publications for 1887 (one guinea) are : — 

87. Early English Verse Lives of Saints (earliest version), Laud MS. 108, ed. Dr. C. Horstma 

88. Hy. Bradshaw's Life of St Werburghe (Pynson, 1521), ed. Dr. C. Horstmann. 10*. 

For Texts in tlie Press, and in preparation, seepages 1 — 3, above. 



The Early English Text Society's Boohs. Extra Series. 



EXTRA SERIES (One guinea a year). 

The Publications for 1867 (one guinea) are : — 

I. William of Palerne; or, William and the Werwolf. Re-edited from the unique MS. in King's 

College, Cambridge, by the Rev. Prof. W. W. Skeat, M.A. 13*. 

II. Early English Pronunciation, with especial reference to Shakspere and Chaucer, Part I., by 
A. J. Ellis, F.R.S. 10*. 

The Publications for 1868 (one guinea) are : — 

HI. Carton's Book of Ourtesye, in 3 Versions : 1, from the unique print in the Camb. Univ. 
Libr. ; 2, the Oriel MS. 79 ; 3, the Balliol MS. 854. Ed. by P. J. Furnivall, M.A. 5*. 

IV. Havelok the Dane. Re-edited from the unique MS. by the Rev. Prof. W. W. Skeat, M.A., 
with the sanction and aid of the original editor, Sir Frederic Madden. 10s. 

V. Ohauoer's Boethius. Edited from the two best MSS. by the Rev. Dr. R. Morris. 12s. 

VI. Oheyelere Assigne. Re-edited from the unique MS. by H. H. Gibbs, MJL 3s. 

The Publication* for 1869 (one guinea) are : — 

VIL Early English Pronunciation, with especial reference to Shakspere and Chaucer, Part II. 

by A. J. Ellis, F.R.S. 10*. 

Vm. Queene Elizabethes Achademy, a Book of Precedence, Ac. Edited by F. J. Furnivall, M. A., 

with Essays on early Italian and German Books of Courtesy, by W. M. Rossetti, Esq., and 

Dr. E. Oswald, Esg.. 13s- 

IX. AwdeleVi Fraternitye of Vacabonde», Earman's Caveat, fto. Edited by E. Viles, Esq., and 
F. J. Furnivall, M.A. 7*. 6d. 

Tlie Publications for 1870 (one guinea) are : — 

X. Andrew Boorde's Introduction of Knowledge, 1647, and Dyetary of Helth, 1542 ; with Barnes in 
the Defence of the Berde, 1542-3. Edited, with a Life of BOORDE, and an account of his Work s, 
by F. J. Furnivall, M.A. 18s. 

XL Barbour*! Bruce, Part I. Edited from the MSS. and early printed editions, by the Rev. 
Prof. W. W. Skeat, M.A. 12*. 

The Publications for 1871 (one guinea) are : — 

XH. England in Henry Vm.'» Time : a Dialogue between Cardinal Pole and Lupsct, mainly on 
the Condition of England, written by Thomas Starkey, Chaplain to Henry VIII. Part II. 

Edited by J. M. Cowper, Esq. 12s. (Part I., Starkey's Life and Letters, is No. XXXII.) 

Xm. A Supplycacyon of the Beggers, by Simon Fish, 1528-9 A.D., edited by F. J. Furnivall, M.A. ; 
with A Supplication to our Moste Soueraigne Lorde ; A Supplication of the Pooro Commons ; and 
The Deeaye of England by the Great Multitude of Sheep, edited by J. M. Cowper, Esq. 6*. 

XIV. Early English Pronunciation, with especial reference to Shakspere and Chaucer, Part III. 
by A. J. Ellis, Esq., F.R.S. 10*. 

The Publications for 1872 (one guinea) are: — 

XV. Robert Crowley's Thirty-one Epigrams, Voyce of The Last Trumpet, Way to Wealth, &c, 1550-1 
▲.D., edited by J. M. Cowper, Esq. Vis. 

XVL Ohauoer's Treatise on the Astrolabe, 1391 A.D. Ed. from MSS. by Rev. Prof. W. Skeat, 

M.A. 10*. 

XVIL The Oomplaynt of Scotlande, 1549 a.d., with an Appendix of four Contemporary English 
Tracts (1542-48 a.d.)» Part I., edited by Dr. J. A. H. Murray. 10*. 

TJie Publications for 1873 (one guinea) are : — 

XVIIL The Oomplaynt of Scotlande, 1549 ad., with an Appendix of four contemporary English 
Tracts (154248), Part II., edited by Dr. J. A. H. Murray. 8*. 

XIX. Oure Ladyes Myroure, a.d. 1530, edited by the Rev. J. H. Blunt, M.A., with four full-page 
photolithographic facsimiles by Cooke and Fotheringham. 24*. 

The Publications for 1874 (one guinea) are ; — 

XX. Lonelioh's History of the Holy Grail (ab. 1450 a.d.), from the French of Sires Robiers de 
Borron, Part I., ed. F. J. Furnivall, M.A. 8*. 

XXI. Barbour's Bruce, Part II., ed. Rev. Prof. W. W. Skeat, M.A. 4*. 

XXIL Henry Brinklow's Oomplaynt of Roderyek Mors (ab. 1542} ; and The Lamentaoion of a Chris- 
tian against the Citie of London, made by Roderigo Mors, a.d. 1545. Ed. J. M. Cowper. 9*. 
XXIIL Early English Pronunciation, Part IV., by A. J. Ellis, F.R.S. 10*. 

Tlve Publications for 1876 (one guinea) are : — 

XXIV. Lonelioh's History of the Holy Grail, Part II., ed. F. J. Furnivall, M.A. 10*. 

XXV. Guy of Warwick, 15th-century Version, Part I., ed. Prof. Zupitza. 20*. 



8 The Ewrly English Text Society's Books. Extra Series. 

The Publications for 1876 (one guinea) are : — 

XXVI. Guy of Warwick, 15th-century Version, Part II., ed. Prof. Zupitza. 14*. 

XXVII. The English Works of John Fisher, Bishop of Rochester (died 1535), Part I, the Text, 
edited by Rev. Prof. J. £. B. Mayor, M.A. 16*. 

Tlic Publications for 1877 (one guinea) are : — 
XXVm. Lonelioh's Holy Grail, Part III., ed. F. J. Furnivall, M.A. 10*. 

XXIX. Barbour's Bruoe. Part III., ed. Rev. Prof. W. W. Skeat, M.A. 21*. (large paper, 42*.). 

The Publications for 1878 (one guinea) are : — 

XXX. Lonelioh's Holy Grail, Part IV., ed. P. J. Furnivall, M.A. 15*. 

XXXI. The Alliterative Romanoe of Al exande r and Dindimus, ed. Rev. Prof. W. W. Skeat. 6*. 
XXXTT. Starkey/i "England in Henry VHTs time " ; Btarkey's Life and Letters ; Part I., ed. S. J. 

Herrtage, B A. 8*. 

The Publications for 1879 (one guinea) are ; — 
XXXTTT, Gesta Romanorom (englisht ab. 1440) : the Early English Versions, edited from the MSS. 

and black-letter editions, by S. J. Herrtage, B.A. 15*. 
XXXTV. Charlemagne Romanoes: No. I. Sir Ferumbras ; edited from the unique Ashmole M8., 

by S. J. Herrtage, B.A. 15*. 

The Publications for 1880 {one guinea) are : — 
XXXV. Charlemagne Romanoes : No. II. The Sege off Melayne, ed. by S. J. Herrtage, B.A. 12*. 
XXXVL Charlemagne Romanoes: No. III. The Lyf of Charles the Grete, englisht by Caxton, 
a.d. 1485, Part I., ed. by S. J. Herrtage, B.A. 16*. 

The Publications for 1881 (one guinea) are: — 
XXXVII. Charlemagne Romanoes: No. IV. The Lyf of Charles the Grete, englisht by Caxton, 

a.d. 1485, Part II., ed. by S. J. Herrtage, B.A. 15*. 
XXXVm. Charlemagne Romanoes : No. V. The Romanoe of the Sowdone of Babylone, ed. Dr. E. 

Hausknecht. 15*. 

The Publications for 1882 (one guinea) are : — 
XXXIX, Ch a rlem a g ne Romanoes :— 6. Rauf Ooilyear, Roland, Otuel, Ac., ed. S. J. Herrtage, B.A. 15*. 
XL. Charlemagne Romanoes :— 7. Huon of Burdeux, by Lord Berners, ed. S. L. Lee, B.A. Part 1. 15*. 

The Publications for 1883 (one guinea) are : 
XII. Charlemagne Romanoes :— 8. Huon of Burdeux, by Lord Berners, ed. 8. L. Lee, B.A. Pt II. 15*. 
XLIL Guy of Warwick, the Auchinleck and Caius MSS., Part I, ed. Prof. Zupitza. 15*. 

The Publications for 1884 (one guinea) are: — 
XLin. Charlemagne Romanoes :— 9. Huon of Burdeux, by Lord Berners, ed. S. L. Lee, B.A. Pt III. 15*. 
XUV. Charlemagne Romanoes:— 10. The Four Sons of Aymon, by Caxton, ed. Miss O. Richardson. 
Parti. 16*. 

The Publications for 1885 (one guinea) are : — 
Charlemagne Romanoes :— 11 . The Four Sons of Aymon, by Caxton, ed. Miss O. Richardson. Part II. 
Charlemagne Romances :— 12. Huon of Burdeux, by Lord Berners, ed. S. L. Lee, B.A. Part III. 
Bp. Fisher's English Works, ed. Rev. Ronald Bayne, B.A. Part II. {At Press. 
Hoeoleve's Minor Poems, ed. F. J. Furnivall, M.A., Ph. D. [At Prtssi, 

„ Compleint, „ „ „ „ 

An Alexander Romance, ed. Rev. Prof. Skeat and J. H. Hessels, M.A. 

The Publications for 1886 (one guinea) are : — 

XL VII. The Wars of Alexander, ed. Rev. Prov. Skeat, Litt.D., LL.D. 20*. 
XLVm. Sir Bevis of Hamton, ed. Prof. £. Kolbing. Part II. 10*. 

The Publications for 1887 (one guinea) are : — 
XLIX. Guy of Warwick, 2 Texts (Auchinleck and Caius MSS.), Part II, ed. Prof. J. Zupitza, 

Ph.D. 15*. n 

L. Charlemagne Romanoes :— 12. Huon of Burdeux, by Lord Berners, ed. S. L. Lee, B.A. Part IV. 5*. 
XX Torrent of Portyngale, from the unique MS. in the Chetham Library, ed. £. Adam, Ph.D. 10*. 

For Texts in the Press, and preparing ', seep. 3, above. 



LONDON : TRUBNER & CO., 67 & 59, LUDGATE HILL, 
BERLIN : ASHER & CO., 58 MOHRENSTRASSE. 



Treasurer's Cash Account for 1886. 



00 
00 



CO 



«* 

** 



©«©©© 



©CO© 



oo ©©©©*» 

t>«0 OOOOM 

ON IOOON« 



90© 

COCO 



2 S! 



•8 

I 






.t. .. 

:fe : : : 

r^ © oo 

•5 • cf-i 

tali' 

'SB'S 
do d d.§ 






■■%■■ 
: :W : : 
: *.W * * 

- : = 

r- . _ _ 

5 |5g 



i 



if o§5« . .f 



<m a? 






5 S 



00 t»© 


no 


©CO© 


COO 


^© 


©N-* 


woo 


£S W 


o»-* 
f-ti-i 


CO-** 


83 W 

HCD 


eo 




Q0M 


»co 



5 



WO 

pa . 



55 










•a ft 






10 



Treasurer's Cash Account for 1887. 



t^ 


«* 




00 




1 


00 






rH 


4 






tl 


»-•« 


tH 






CO 


«D 


«• 






a 



8 I 



*500o»«© 



s 



*■' ,d -a ^ G P 
f S .a ^o §4 H 



co o ceoeee 
© e» loooott 

*» eg 001000910 

:| : : : I I 



12 a . s ^ ■ 



t>ao 



:9 



Hiw^I 



t 5F3 ^ 3 






© 



fc fc 



Hi 






8 ; 



30 

a te- 



gs B 3 £^i* 
M 






©fc» 


*■»© 


00 


00 


©00 


»a 


10 ■* 


10 to 


©» 
iHr-l 


©o 

1-4 


§* 


»a 


eori 


B» 


S3 



©©O ©O©o 
Hr-i«HHHH 
•H rH 09 r-l i-4 iH i-4 



I 






S 

H 

ft 



ffl£> 
gw 

.0 



OS 

h 



I: 



II 

fcfe 



5.s «l 



=11 



a « 
1 ^ 



: 'gj 

GO'S 

?£ 

: .5* 

6cj£ 
g "E M 

.2 CW 






M 






ha 2-5, » e s s *s a^sSsoJ&b 
1 J I 5 ^1 III 2§««**^~ 8 



53a}&< 



11 



LIST OF MEMBERS. 



COMMITTEE OF MANAGEMENT. 

DIRECTOR: FREDERICK J. FURNIVALL, M.A., Ph.D. 

TREASURER; HENRY B. WHEATLEY, ESQ. 



HON. SEC. : W. A. DALZIEL, ESQ., 67 Victobia Road, 

FlNBBURY PARK, LONDON, N. 

HON. BEG. for America : PROF.' F. J. CHILD, Harvard College, 
Cambridge, Mass., U. s. A. 



ALEXANDER J. ELLIS, B.A., 

F.R.S. 
HENRY HUCKS GIBBS, M.A. 
SIDNEY J. HERRTAGE, B.A. 
PROF. E. KOLBLNG, Ph.D. 
S. L. LEE, B.A. 
REV. PROF. LUMBY, D.D. 
F. D. MATTHEW, ESQ. 
REV. DR. RICHARD MORRIS. 



REV. PROF. J. E. B. MAYOR, 

M.A. 
DR. J. A. H. MURRAY. * 
PROF. NAPIER, M.A., Ph.D. 
EDWARD B. PEACOCK, ESQ. 
REV. PROF. SKEAT, M.A., LL.D. 
DR. HENRY SWEET, M.A. 
W. ALDIS WRIGHT, M.A., LL.D. 
PROF. ZUPITZA, Ph.D. 



(With power to add Workers to their number.) 



BANKERS: 

THE UNION BANK OF LONDON, Princes Street, E.C. 

PUBLISHERS : TRUBNER & CO., 57 & 59, Ludgate Hill, E.C. 



A star is prefixt to the names of those who subscribe to the Extra Series and to the 
Original Series. 



Ainsworth, Dr. R. F., Cliff Point, Lower Broughton, Manchester. 

Alexander, George Russell, 42, Sardinia Terrace, Hillhead, Glasgow. 

Alexander, Walter, 4 Burnbank Gardens, Glasgow. 
•Allsopp, The Hon. A. Percy, Streethay Lodge, Lichfield. 

Allyn, J. (Bookseller), Boston, U. S. A. (by Triibner & Co.). 

Amert, J. Sparke, Druid House, Ashburton, Devon. 
♦Amherst College Library, Amherst, Mass., U. S. A. (by Allen). 

Amhubst, Wm. A. Tyssen, Didlington Hall, Brandon, Norfolk. 

Angus, Rev. Joseph, D.D., Regent's Park College, N.W. 
♦Asher & Co., Messrs., 13, Bedford Street, Covent Garden, W.C. (3 sets). 
•Astor Library, New York, U. S. A. (by Stevens). 
♦Athenjbum Club, Pall Mall, S.W. 



12 List of Members of the %. & Text Soc, 1888. 

♦Atkinson, Rev. E., D.D., Clare College Lodge, Cambridge. 
♦Atkinson, Rev. J. C, Danby Parsonage, Grosmont, Yorkshire. 
Austin, Stephen, Hertford. 

♦Babe, Messrs. J. & Co., Frankfort (by Triibner & Co.). 
Balliol College, Oxford. 
♦Bayley, Arthur, Pembroke College, Oxford. 
♦Berlin University Library (by Asher & Co.). 
♦Binns, Rev. William, Stourton Lodge, Arno Road, Oxton, Birkenhead. 
♦Birmingham Central Free Library, Ratcliff Place, Birmingham. 
♦Birmingham Library, C. E. Scarse, Esq., Union Street, Birmingham. 
*Boardman, Rev. Charles, D.D., St. Wilfrid's Presbyter}', Longridge, Preston. 
Bombay Asiatic Society (by Trubner & Co.). 
♦Boston Athenaeum Library, U. S. A. 
Boston Public Library, Boston, Mass., U. S. A. (by Trubner & Co.). 
Bottomley, Edward, Greenfield, Manchester (by Trubner & Co.). 
Bourdillon, F. W., Rother Lea, Midhurst, Sussex. (Extra Series only.) 
Bowen, H. Courthope, 3, York St., Portman Sq., W. 
Boyd-Carpenter, H., King's College, Cambridge. 
Brackett, Dr. J. R. Montpelier, Vermont, U. S. A. 
Bradley, Henry, 11, Bleisho Rd., Lavender Hill, London, S.W. 
♦Breslau University Library (by Asher & Co.). 
♦Brooke, Col. Thomas, Armitage Bridge, Hudderefield. 
♦Brooklyn Mercantile Library, New York, U. S. A. (by Allen). 

Brown, Arthur Henry, Brentwood (by Trubner & Co.). 
♦Brown, Prof., Canterbury College, Christchurch, New Zealand (by TriibucT 

& Co.). 
♦Brushfield, Dr. T. N., The Cliff, Budleigh-Salterton, Devon. 
♦Buckley, Rev. Wm. Edw., Rectory, Middleton Cheney, Banbury. 
Burns, James T., Kirlistoo, Edinburgh. 
Burnside, W., Pembroke College, Cambridge. 
♦Burton on Trent Institute, Union St., Burton-on-Trent. 
Carperter, J. Estlin, loathes House, Fitzjohn's Avenue, Hampstead, N.W. 
Chance, Dr. F., Burleigh House, Sydenham Hill, S.E. 
Chappell, William, F.S.A., Strafford Lodge, Oatlands Park, Weybridge Station. 
Cheltenham College Library, Cheltenham. 
Cheltenham Library, 5, Royal Crescent, Cheltenham. 
♦Chetham's Library, Hunt's Bank, Manchester. 
♦Chicago Public Library, Chicago, U. S. A. (by Stevens). 
Chichester, Lord Bishop of, The Palace, Chichester. 
♦Chorlton, Thomas, 32, Brazennose Street, Manchester. 
Christian, Rev. George, Redgate, Uppingham, Rutland. 
♦Christiania University Library, Norway (care of Mr. T. Bennett, 

Christiania). 
•Christ's College, Cambridge. 

Churchill, Miss Caroline, 23, Stanley Gardens, Notting Hill, London, N. 
♦Cincinnati Public and School Library, Cincinnati, U. S. A. (by Stevens). 
♦Clinton Hall Association, New York, U. S. A. (by Trubner & Co.). 
Cohen, Arthur, 6, King's Bench Walk, Temple, E.C. 
♦Coleridge, The Right Hon. Lord, 1, Sussex Square, Hyde Park, W. 
♦Compton, Lord Alwyne, Bishop of Ely, Castle Ashby, Northampton. 
♦Cornell University, Ithaca, New York, U. S. A. (by Allen). 
Craig, Dr. W. J., 8, Grenville St., Brunswick Sq., W.C (by Trubner & Co.). 
Culley, M. T., Coupland Castle, Wooler, Northumberland (Extra Series only). 
Cuthbert, A., Glasgow (by Mr. Maclehose). 



List of Members of the U. Jf. Text Soc, 1888. 13 

♦Dabis, Miss, 1, Crofton Cottages, Cambridge. 

♦Dalziel, W. A., 67, Victoria Road, Finsbury Park, London * N. {Hon. Sec). 

Davies, Rev. J., 16, Belsize Sq., South Hampstead, N.W. (by Trubner & Co.). 

Dawes, Rev. Dr. J. S., Newton House, Surbiton, Surrey. 

Deighton, Bell, & Co., 13, Trinity St., Cambridge. 

Debby, Earl of, 23, St. James's Square, S.W. 
♦Devonshire, The Duke of, Devonshire House, Piccadilly, W. 

Dickson, Thomas, H. M. General Register House, Edinburgh. 
♦Dowden, Prof. Edward, Winstead, Temple Road, Rathmines, Dublin. 

Durham Cathedral, the Libbaby of the Dean and Chapter. 
♦Dykes, Frederick, Wakefield. 
♦Earle, Rev. Professor J., 15, Norham Road, Oxford. 

Edinburgh Univebsity Libbaby (by Williams & Norgate). 

Elwobthy, Fredk. T., Foxdown, Wellington, Somerset. 
♦Evans, Sebastian, Heathfield, Alleyn Park, West Dulwich, S.E. 
♦Everard, C. H.. Eton College, Windsor. 
•Exeter College, Oxfobd. 

Faunthobpe, Rev. John P., Whitelands Training College, 35, King's Road, 
Chelsea, S.W. 

Ferris, O. A., Fairview, Dartmouth Park Avenue, N.W. 
•Finance, Rev. Gerard de, St. Pierre de l'Etang du Nord, Grindstone Island, 

Magdalen Islands, Brit. N. America. 
♦Ford, John Rawlinson, 25, Albion St, Leeds. 
♦Fox, Francis F., Yate House, Chipping Sodbury. 
♦Freiburg University Library, Baden, 

♦Furness, Horace Howard, 222, West Washington Sq., Philadelphia, U. S. A. 
♦Furnivall, Dr. F. J., 3, St. George's Square, Primrose Hill, London, N.W. 
{Director.) 

Gaisford, Rev. T. A., 2, Devonshire PI., Bath (by Trubner & Co.). 
♦Gerold & Co., Vienna (by Trubner & Co.). 
•Gibbs, Henry H., St. Dunstan's, Regent's Park, N.W. 
♦Gilman, Arthur, 11, Mason Street, Cambridge, Mass., U. S. A, 
*Gissing, Algernon F., 10, Barstow Sq., Wakefield. 
♦Glasgow University Libbaby (by Mr. Maclehose). 

Gobdon, Rev. Robert, 6, Mayfield Street, Newington, Edinburgh (by 
Mr. Stevenson). 

Gbay, Arthur, Jesus College, Cambridge. 
*Gbeifswald Univebsity. (By Asher & Co.) 
♦GBEVEL, H. & Co., 33, King St., Covent Garden, W.C. 
♦Guildhall, Libbaby of the Cobpobation of London, E.C. 
♦Hailstone, Edward, Walton Hall, Wakefield (by Mr. J. Wilson). 
•Hales, Professor J. W., 1, Oppidan's Road, Primrose Hill, N.W. 

Hall, Joseph, Grammar School, Manchester. 

Hambubg Stadt Bibliothek. 

Hanson, Sir Reginald, 4, Bryanston Sq., London, W. 
♦HARRIS, Mortimer, 10, Angell Park Gardens, Brixton, S.W. 
*Harbis, William, 20, Elvetham Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham. 

Harrison, Professor J., Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia, 

U. S. A. (by Trubner & Co.). 
♦Harvard College, Cambridge, Mass., U. S. A. (by Allen). 

Harvey, W. Fred., 2, Temple Gardens, Temple, E.C. 
♦Hay, C. A., 127, Harley Street, W. 

Heales, Major Alfred (F.S.A.), Leesons, Chislehurst, Kent. 

Helwich, Professor H. R., 29, Neugasse, Oberdobling, Vienna, Austria. 



14 List of Members of the JE. JE. Text Soc., 1888. 

Hbbtz, Dr. W., Munich (by Trubner & Co.). 

Hessels, J. H., Cambridge. 
♦Hodgson, Shadworth H., 45, Conduit Street, Regent Street, W. 

Holme, J. Wilson, 84, Old Jewry, E.C. 
# Howabd, Henry, Stone House, Kidderminster. 

Hull Subscription Libbaby, Albion Street, Hull. 

Hulme, E. C, 18, Philbeach Gardens, South Kensington, S.W. 

Hutchinson, Edward, the Elms, Darlington. 
* James, Colonel Edward C, Ogdenburg, St Lawrence County, New York, 

U. S. A. 
♦Jenkins, Sir James, K.C.B., Nevinston, Mannamead, Plymouth. 
•Johns Hopkins Library, Baltimore, U. S. A. (by Allen). 

Johnson, G. J., 36, Waterloo St., Birmingham. 

Johnson, Dr. Henry, Brunswick, Maine, U. S. A. (by Trubner Sc Co.). 

Johnson, H., 21, Kildare Gardens, Westbourne Park, London, W. 
♦Jones, John Joseph, Abberley Hall, Stourport. 
*Juniob Cablton Club, Pall Mall, S.W. 
♦Kansas Univebsity Libbaby (by Trubner & Co.). 

Kent & Co. (by Trubner & Co.). 
♦Keb, William P., 208, Newport Road, Cardiff. 
♦Kett, Rev. C. W., 2, Haverstock Ter., South Hampstead, N.W. 
♦King's College, Cambridge (by Deighton, Bell, & Co.). 
♦King's Inn Libbaby, Henrietta Street, Dublin. 
♦Kingsbuby, Rev. T. L., Cambridge (by Deighton, Bell, & Co.). 
♦Klincksieck, F., Paris (by Trubner & Co.). 
•Lafayette College, Easton, Perm., U. S. A. 
♦Lambebt, Joshua C, Independent College, Taunton. 
♦Leathes, Frederick de M., 17, Tavistock Place, Tavistock Square, W.C. 
♦Leeds Libbaby, Commercial St., Leeds. 

Lewis, Rev. Henry, Principal, Culham College, Oxon. 
♦Listeb, John, Shibden Hall, Halifax. 
♦Little, E. D., The Mount, Northallerton. 

Litebaby and Philosophical Society, Sheffield (by Trubner &, Co.). 
♦Livebpool Free Public Libbaby (by G. G. Walmsley, 60, Lord St., 
Liverpool). 

Lockwood & Co., 7, Stationers' Hall Court, E.C. (by Trubner & Co.). 
♦London Institution, Finsbury Circus, E.C. 
♦London Libbaby, 12, St. James's Square, S.W. 
♦Lounsbuby, Prof. T. R., Yale College, New Haven, Conn., U. S. A. 
♦Low, Messrs. S. & Co., 188, Fleet Street, E.C. (by Trubner & Co.). 
♦Lowell, Professor J. Russell, Harvard, Mass., U. S. A. 
♦Luabd, Rev. Henry Richards, 4, St. Peter's Terrace, Cambridge. 
♦Lumby, Rev. Prof, J. Rawson, St. Mary's Gate, Cambridge. 

Lushington, Professor E. L., D.C.L. — Park House, Maidstone. 
♦Macmillan, A., Bedford Street, Covent Garden, W.C. 
♦Manchesteb, The Duke of, Kimbolton Castle, St Neot's. 
♦Manchesteb Public Fbee Libbaby, Manchester. 

Mabbubg Univebsity. {Extra Series anly.) 

Mabkby, Alfred, 9, New Square, Lincoln's Inn, W.C. 
♦Mabshall, John, 20, Holyrood Crescent, Glasgow. 
♦Mabtineau, P. M., Littleworth, Esher, Surrey. 

Mason, C. P., 5, College Gardens, Dulwich, S.E. 
♦Masson, M. Gustave, Harrow on the hill. 

Matthew, Fredk. D., Quarryton, Hayne Road, Beckenham, Kent 



List of Members of t/ie E. U. Text Soc, 1888. 15 

♦Matzner, Dr. (by Asher & Co.). 

♦Mayor, Rev. Prof. John E. B., St. John's College, Cambridge. 
♦Melbourne Public Library (by S. Mullen). 
♦Mercantile Library, St. Louis, Missouri, U. S. A. 
♦Merton College, Oxford. 

Metcalfe, W. M., South Manse, Paisley. 
♦Michigan, University op, Ann Arbor, Michigan, U. S. A. 
♦Micklethwaite, J. T., 6, Delahay Street, Westminster, S.W. 

Mill Hill School, Hendon, N.W. 
♦Mitchell Library, Glasgow. 

Mohr, E„ Heidelberg (by Triibner & Co.). 

Monson, Viscount, 29, Belgrave Square, S.W. 

Moore, S., 25, Dover St., Chorlfon-on-Medlock, Manchester. 
♦Morison, John, Messrs., 11, Burnbank Gardens, Glasgow. 

Morley, Prof. Henry, 8, Upper Park Road, Haverstock Hill, N.W. 
♦Morris, Rev. Dr. Richard, Lordship Lodge, Wood Green, N. 

Moulton, Rev. Dr. Wm. F., The Leys, Cambridge. 
*Mullen, S., 48, Paternoster Row, London, E.C. 

MuLLER, Professor Max, 7, Norham Gardens, Oxford. 

Munby, Arthur J., 6, Fig-tree Court, Temple, E.C. 
♦Murray, Dr. James A. H., Oxford. 
♦Napier, Professor A. S., Headington Hill, Oxford. 
♦National Library of Ireland, Dublin (by Hodges, Figgis & Co.). 

Nebraska University, U. S. A. (by Triibner & Co.). 
♦Neck, M. G. van, Goes, Holland. 

♦New Jersey College Library, New Jersey, U. S. A. (by H. Grevel & Co.). 
♦New University Club, St. James's Street, S.W. 
♦Newcastle-upon-Tyne Literary and Philosophical Society, Westgate 

Road. 
♦Nicholl, G. W., Ham, Cowbridge, Glamorganshire. 

Norfolk and Norwich Literary Institution, St. Andrew's Broad Street, 
Norwich. 
♦Norwich Free Lebrary, Norwich. 
♦Norwich, Dean and Chapter of (care of Archdeacon Nevill, The Close, 

Norwich). 
•Nottingham Free Public Libraries, Nottingham. 

Oliphant, T. L. Kington, Charlsfield, Gask, Auchterarder. 
♦Ormerod, Henry M., 5, Clarence Street, Manchester. 
♦Ouseley, Rev. Sir Frederick Gore, Bart., St. Michael's College, Tenbury, 

Herefordshire. 
♦Owens College Library, Manchester. 

Paris, La Faculty des Lettres de Paris, M. Thorin, Rue de M6dicis (care of 
Dulau, 37, Soho Sq., W.). {Extra Series only.) 
♦Parker & Co., Messrs. Jas., Broad Street, Oxford (2 sets). 
•Peabody Institute, Baltimore, U. S. A. (by Allen). 

Peacock, Edward B., Bottesford Manor, Brigg, Lincolnshire. 

Peacock, William, 3, Sunniside, Sunderland. 

Peel, George, Brookfield, Cheadle, Cheshire. 

Peile, John, Christ's College, Cambridge. 
♦Penzance Library, Penzance. 
♦Peskett, Arthur George, Magdalene College, Cambridge. 

Philadelphia Library Company, U. S. A. (by Stevens). 
♦Philadelphia Mercantile Library, U. S. A. (by Allen). 
♦Plymouth Institution, Athenaum, Plymouth. 



16 List of Members of the H. H. Text Soc, 1888. 

♦Porter, Rd. F., Boley Hill House, Rochester. 
Portico Library, 57, Mosley Street, Manchester. 

♦Priaulx, Ctew. de Beau voir, 8, Cavendish Square, W. 

•Price, Mrs. W. E., Hillfield, Gloucester. 
Procter, Rev. Francis, Wilton Vicarage, North Walsham, Norfolk. 

♦Public Record Office, London, E.C. (by Triibner & Co.). 
Queens College, Cork. 
Queen's College Library, Belfast. 
Read, Rev. Stephen G., Barton St. Mary, Brandon, Norfolk. 
Rees, G., Overseers' Offices, 27, Bridge St, Birkenhead. 

♦Reform Club, Pall Mall, S.W. (by Mr. Ridgway). 

♦Reichel, H. R., University College of North Wales, Bangor. 
Riley, Athelstan, 32, Queen's Gardens, Bayswater, W. 
Roberts, Robert, Queen's Terrace, Boston, Lincolnshire. 
Rochdale Free Public Library, Rochdale. 
♦Roche, J. (by Triibner & Co.). 
♦Ronksley, James George, 12, East Parade, Sheffield. 

Rostock University Library (by Asher & Co.). 
♦Rotton, J. F., 3, Boltons, West Bromptou, S.W. 
•Round, P. Zillwood, 30, South St., Greenwich, S.E. 
•Royal Institution, Albemarle Street, W. 

Royal Irish Academy, 19, Dawson Street, Dublin. 
•Royal Library, Windsor Castle. 

Royal Library, Munich (by Triibner and Co.). 
♦Royal Library, Stockholm (by Triibner & Co.). 

♦Royal Society op Literature, 4, St. Martin's Place, Charing Cross, W.C. 
•Ruskin, Prof. John, LL.D., Brantwood, Coniston. 
♦Russell, Thomas, Ascog Bute, Rothesay. 

•Rutgers College Library, New Brunswick, New Jersey, U. S. A. 
•St. Andrew's University Library, N. B. 
♦St: Catherine's College, Cambridge (by Deighton, Bell, & Co.). 
♦St. John's College, Cambridge (by Deighton, Bell, Sc Co.). 
•St. John's College, Annapolis, Maryland, U. S. A. (by Stevens). 
♦St. Louis Public School Library (by Stevens). 
•St. Mary's College Library, Oscott, Birmingham. 

Salt, Samuel, Gateside, Silecroft, Cumberland. 

Saunders, G. Symes, M.B., Devon County Lunatic Asylum, Exminster. 
♦Schipper, Professor (by Triibner & Co.). 
•Science and Art Department, Cromwell Road, South Kensington, S.W. 

Senior, John, Staunton, Coleford, Gloucestershire. 
•Sheffield Free Library, Surrey Street, Sheffield. 
♦Sheffield Lit. & Phil. Society (by Triibner & Co.). 
•Shimmin, Charles F., Mount Vernon Street, Boston, U. S. A. 
•Signet Library, Edinburgh. 
♦Simonton, J. W., Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, U. S. A. 
♦Sion College, President and Fellows of, London Wall, E.C. 
•Skeat, Rev. Prof. Walter W., M.A., LL.D., 2, Salisbury Villas, Cambridge. 

Slatter & Rose, Messrs., Oxford. 

Smith, Charles, 14, Market St., Faversham. 
♦Snelgrove, Arthur G., 6, Portway Terrace, Willoughby Rd., Hornsey, N. 

Snell, Rev. W. M., Corpus Christi College, Cambridge. 
♦Society of Antiquaries, Burlington House, Piccadilly, W. 

Somersetshire Archaeological Society, Taunton Castle, Taunton. 
•Sotheran fc Co., 36, Piccadilly, W. (by Triibner & Co,). 



List of Members of the R E. Text Sue, 1888. 17 

♦Stechert, G. E., 26, King William St., Strand, W.C. (by Triibner & Co.). 
•Stephens, Professor George, University of Copenhagen, Denmark. 

Stonyhurst College, Blackburn. 
♦Strassburg University Library (by Triibner & Co.). 
♦Sullivan, Sir Edward, 32, Fitzwilliam Place, Dublin. 

Sunderland Subscription Library, Fawcett Street, Sunderland. 
♦Swain Free School, New Bedford, Mass., U. S. A. (by H. Grevel & Co.). 

Sweet, Dr. Henry, Mansfield Cottage, Heath St., Hampstead,. N.W. 
♦Sydney Free Library (by Triibner & Co.). 

♦Ten-Brink, Professor Bernhard, Ph. Dr., Strassburg (by Triibner & Co.). 
♦Terry, Frank C. Birkbeck, The College, Dumfries PI., Cardiff. 
•Tinkler, Rev. John, Arkengarth Dale Vicarage, Richmond, Yorkshire. 

Toole, The Very Rev. Canon Laurence, Bedford House, Hulme, Manchester. 
♦Toronto, University of, Canada (by Allen). 
♦Torquay Natural History Society, Torquay, Devon. 

Totter, T. N., 21, Victoria Rd., Fallowfield, Manchester. 
♦Trinity College Library, Cambridge (by Deighton, Bell & Co.). 

Trinity College Library, Oxford. 

Tubingen University Library (by Triibner & Co.). 
♦Tulane University, New Orleans, U. S. A. (by H. Grevel). 

Unger, Professor C. R., Christiania, Norway. 

University College, Gower Street, London, W.C. 

University Library, Utrecht, Holland. 

♦University of California, Berkeley, Cal., U. S. A. (H. Sotheran & Co.). 
♦University of London, Burlington Gardens, W. (H. Sotheran & Co.). 
♦University of Virginia, Albemarle Co., Virginia, U. S. A. (H. Sotheran 

& Co.). 
♦Upsala Academy (by Triibner & Co.). 

Usherwood, Venerable Archdeacon (by Triibner & Co.). 
♦Van Name, Addison, New Haven, Connecticut, U. S. A. (by Allen). 
♦Vassar College Library, Pokeepsie (by H. Grevel). 
•Victorian Parliament, Library of, Melbourne (by Mr. Geo. S. Robertson, 

17, Warwick Square, E.C.). 
♦Viles, Edward, 16, Wetherby Gardens, South Kensington, S.W. 

Vipan, Frederick John, 31, Bedford Place, W.C. {Extra Series only.) 

Vloten, Dr. J. van, Haarlem, Holland. 
♦Walton, Charles, 22, Newington Butts, Southwark, S.E. 
♦Washington, Library of Congress, U. S. A. (by Allen). 
♦Watkinson Library, Hartford, Conn., U. S. A. (by Allen). 
♦Watson, Robert Spence, Moss Croft, Gateshead-on-Tyne. 
"Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne Street, W. 
♦Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass., U. S. A. (H. Sotheran & Co.). 
♦Wheatley, Henry B., 12, Caroline St., Bedford Sq., W.C. {Treasurer.) 
♦Whitaker, J., 11, Warwick Lane, E.C. (by Triibner & Co.). 
♦White, George H., Glenthorne, St. Mary Church, Torquay. 

Whitney, Henry Austin, Boston, Massachusetts (by Triibner & Co.). 
♦Wilcocks, Horace Stone, 32, Wyndham Square, Plymouth. 
♦Wilkinson, Miss Isabel E., 2, Park Side, Cambridge. 

Williams, Sydney, 14, Henrietta Street, Covent Garden, W.C. 

Wilson, Edmund, 8, Osborne Ter., Beech Grove, Leeds. 
♦Wilson, Edward S., 6, Whitefriar Gate, Hull. 

Wilson, Wm., Hyde Hill, Berwick-on-Tweed. 

Winser, Percy Jas., 65, Sankey St., Warrington. 
♦Witthoft, Valentin, Berlin, W., An der Apostelkirche 2. 



18 List of Members of the E. E. Text Soc., 1888. 

Woodhamb, J. R., High St., Brackley, Northants. 

Worcb8teb College, Oxford. 
•Wren, Walter, 3, Powis Square, Westbourne Park, W. 
•Wright, Dr. W. Aldis, Trinity College, Cambridge. 

Wulcker, Professor R. P. (by Mr. A. Twietmeyer, Leipzig). 
♦Wurzburg Library (by Triibner & Co.). 
♦Yale College Library, New Haven, Conn., U. S. A. (by Allen). 
♦York Minster Library, York. 

Young, Sidney, 15, Alwyne Rd., Canonbury, N. 
•Zupitza, Prof. Julius, Ph. D., Berlin (by Asher & Co.). 



The Honorary Secretary of the Chaucer Society and the Ballad Society 
is W. A. Dalziel, Esq., 67, Victoria Rd., Finsbury Park, London, N. 

The Hon. Sec. of the New Shaksperc Society is Kenneth Grahame, Esq., 
65, Chelsea Gardens, Chelsea Bridge Road, London, S.W. 

The Hon. Sec. of the Brwming Society is Walter B. Slater, Esq., 249 
Camden Road, London, N. 

The Hon. Sec. of the Wyclif Society is J. H. Standerwiok, Esq., General 
Post Office, London, E.C. 

The Hon. Sec. of The Shelley Society is T. J. Wise, Esq., 127 Devonshire 
Road, Holloway. 

Shakspere Quarto Facsimiles, issued under the superintendence of Dr. F. 
J. Furnivall : 43 vols., 6*. each. B. Quaritch, 15 Piccadilly, London, 



RICHARD CLAY & SONS, LIMITED, W)NDON & BUNGAY. 



The Publications for 1872-8.6 {One Guinea each pear) are ;— 
49. an Old Ekglish Miscellany, containing a Bestiary, Kentish Sermons, Proverbs of Alfred, 

and Religious Poems of the 13th cent, ed. from the MSS. by the Rev. R. Morris, LL.D. 10*. 1872 

ZO. West-Saxon Vkesion of Gregory's Pastoral Cark. Ed. H. Sweet, M. A. Part II. 10*. „ 

51. The Ltpe gf St. Juliana, two versions, a.d. 1230, ed. by T. O. Cockayne and £. Brock. 2*. „ 

52. Palladius ok Husbondrie, englisht (ab. 1420 a.d.), ed. Rev. B. Lodge, M.A. Part I. 10*. „ 

53. Old English Homilies, Series II., and three Hymns to the Virgin and God, 13th-century, with 

the music to two of them, in old and modern notation ; ed. Rev. R. Morris, LL.D. 8*. 1873 

54. The Vision of Piers Plowman, Text U. : Richard the Redeles (by William, the author of 

the Vision) ; and The Crowned King ; ed. Rev. W. W. Skeat, M.A. 18*. „ 

-~> \ Gbnerydes, a Romance, ab. 1440 a.d., ed. W. Aldis Wright, Esq. Part I. 3*. „ 
?. :. The Gest Htstorialk of the Destruction of Troy, in alliterative verse ; ed. D. Donaldson, 

and Rev. G. A. Pan ton. Part II. 10*. 6rf. 1874 

57. Thb Early. English Version of the*' Cursor Mvndi," in four Texts, edited by the Rev. R. 

Morris, LL.D. Part I. with 2 photolithographic facsimiles. 10*. 6d. „ 

58. T«E Buckling Homilies, 971 a.d., ed. Rev. R. Morris, LL.D. Part I. 8*. ., 
6<». The " Cursor Mundi," in four Texts, ed. Rev. Dr. Morris. Part II. 15*. 1875 
0;». Mbditacyuns on the Soper of Our Lokde (by Robert of Brunne), ed.J. M. Cowper. 2*. Bd. „ 
«" 1 . The Romance and Prophicirs of Thomas of Erckldoune ; ed. Dr. J. A. H. Murray. 10*. 6d. „ 
*'-2. The "Cursor Musdi," in four Texts, ed. Rev. Dr. Morris. Part III. 15*. 1876 
G3. The Bltckxino Homilies, 971 a.d., ed. Rev. Dr. Morris. Part II. 7*. „ 
<A. Francis Thynnb's Emblkames and Epigrams, a.d. 1600, ed. by F. J. Furnivall. 7*. * „ 
«'..«> Br Domi .D.f;f, etc. Ed, J. R, Limby, R D, 2s. 

66 The " CeitaoR ,Mum>C in four Texts ed< Rev. Dr. Morris, Fart IV. *tth 2 Autotypes. 10*. 1877 

<i". Notes an Pikub Flowsiajn, by tic Rot. W t W r . Skeat, M.A. Fart I. 21*. „ 

*5S. The •' hwna Munui ? " in 4 Texts, ed. Roy. Dr. R. Morris. Part V. 25*. 1878 

tiO. Adam DAfttfl 5 DkkAXA Annex Kuwaud IT., etc., Ed. F. J, Furnivall, M,A^ 5*~ „ 

7<>. Gknervpes a Romance, ed. W« Aldia Wright, M.A. Part II. 4s. „ 

7 1 . The Lay Folks' Mapa-Bohk* four TtfiU, ed. by ttie Rev, Canon Simmons, 2.1*. 1879 

'/ Z. Paxlauius os Hu&ButfU&EL, English t [ab. 1121) a.d.). Part II. Ed r S, J. Heritage, B.A. 15*. „ 

73. luB Blilklihg Homiu «*,!>' I a.d., ed. He v. Dr. 11. Morris, Part HI. 10*. 1880 

74. The EftotJAH WoitKi* air WYeLip iittheimo VKfhjj^tep, ed. F. D. Matthew. Esq, 20*. „ 
7" Cathoucon Asotituw. Jin Early- English Dictionary, IVoiu Lord MonsnnU >IS, a.ii. 1483, ed. 

with IiilmJuLlion & Nates, by 8. J. lleirtuKe, P^A., with Preface by H. B. Wheat! ry. 20*. 1881 

7rt. Aflfhjc'.s M ethical Livua of faints, hi BIS, Cott. Jul. E, 7, Ed. Rev. Prof. Bkeitt, Fart I. 10*. „ 

77. Bkowvli*, the unique M 9. autotyped and transliterated, ed. Prof, Kupitan, Ph r I>. 25*. 1382 

7H. The 50 Earliest Esqiaml Wills in the €oi'a*r or Pis on ate, 13ST-U30. ed. F. J. Furnivall. 7*. „ 

7H. Kisq Ail -men's Quant's, from Lord Tolletnnehe^ !Hh century MS., imI. IL Sweet, M.A. Ft I. 13*. 1883 

Extra Vot. Facsimile or ike Ei'inal Glossary, Stu cent. cd r H. Sweet, M.A. 15a. „ 

80. Tub Early- Exousn Life of St. Katherine aho its Latis Oiijoihal, ed.Dr. Eincnkel. 12*. 18«4 

81. Pif.RS Plowmak: >'otea, GloHSary, etc. Fart 1 V. Ed. Rev. Prof. Skeat. Us. ,, 
S4. Aklfrio 1 * MW riot, Liyes of Bamti-e, La MS. Colt. Jul. E7, ed. Rev.W. Stoat, M.A., Ft.II. 12* 1885 
.->:$. Tkb Oi.mur Ethilmk Tj^xts. Chapters, nf hp ed. Dr. H. Sweet, M.A. Hb* „ 
Xi. Additional ASALo&J to ' Tue WHtGHi^s CuAPTB WiFR,* Nq r I3,bvW, A. CLoueton. 1*. 1886 
c ,5. Tmb Timii KiNors 0* Cologne. Two En^litih Textn and 1 Luiin, ed. Pr. C. Rorstniann. 17*. , f 
X6. Puo8£ Lues o* V/hkkx Sajstsj ah. lfllO a. d*» ed, Irom tbo unique MS. P by Dr t C + IloPbtmann. 12*. „ 



EXTBA SERIES. 



The PuhHc&twnt for 1867-1S77 {Oim Gut am each year) are:— 
I. Wu mam of FALFBM3. He-edited by the Eey. W, W. Skcnt, W .A, W** 1867 

II. Ea£ly English PnoHixciAtioSf ; with especial Reference to ^huktipere oud Chaucer, by 

A. J, Ellfr, F.H.S. Fart I. 10a, „ 

III. Caxton^ Book of Cuhiksyk, in Three Teri#ionB. Ed. F. J, FuaxtvALTj, M.A. 5*. 1868 

IV. Havflok T«t Dank. Bc-edtted by lh«; Ber.W. W, Skeat, M.A. IAh. „ 

V. CuAfcta 1 !! BrtETiiius, Edited froni the two best MSS, by Rc-v. Itr. MoniB. 12*. „ 

VI. Chhh.*ke A^T<iW^. lle-cditcd from the unique MS< by II, II. GibUs Esq. 3*. ,, 

VU. Eaiuy Emjlihii rHOM>e]ATinis, byA. J. Ellit. F.R.S. Part \l. (Q&, 1869 

VIII. QujaauM E(,i/,ipethe« AenAiH3MY.'etc, Ed, F. J, Furntmit. With EswiyK on early Italian 

and tiermnn Euoks of Cuujtcpy, by W. M. lUisneUi, and Dr. E. 0=wabL 13*. „ 

IX. Awi'tttY's FRAiRiiNiTYit ot VAtAboKUt^s Hauvah^ Caykat, &t&* £dUcd by K. Tiles and 

F. J , Furnivall, 7*, 6rf. „ 

X. Booi:w."> I> juoot'cTiojt of K^owLHisan, K^-17, find ITykt.ihy Of Ii^r.TH, 15-1^ ; Barnes 

. n II l t > > c f. of I ii k. V ft ihj E , 1 542-3. K d . l\ J . luni i yji 11 , M . A , IS*. 1870 

XI. BAKnuni's Tluei f, Part I. Ed, from MSS, and editions, by Rev. \\\ \V\ 5?keat, M^A. 12*. „ 
XII. Enolasu in Hi:>-ky VIII. T bj TiMti : a Dialogue between Curding Pole and Luptet, by T. 

Stark. y r nmplain to Henry VtJL Kd L J. >L Cowper. Pt. II. 12*. (Pt.E i& No. XXXII. 8*.) 1871 
"* TTT \ Sii'i'i.uAtYu.v df TtiK B^GOEns t by Simon l'isb, ln r >2S*t1 A.H., eel. f. J. Fumjvnll; with A 

^UPPP.IC AtlON Tf> Olrft M{J*1K BtJCfBRAlGlJfK IhOJIBE ; A SUFPLICATIOS OF THE Pod HE COMMONS ; 

and Tiiir Decays or Ekh&AW d y thk 0*^at Mt LTrrttit uf Sh^k^, ed. ,L M. Cowper. 6*. „ 
N [V. Kahi.y E.sgli^h I'uoiBVMiATiOjr, by A, J. Ellifin Kfft.. KR.S. Part IJI- Id*. „ 

HV. ROBEUT CltOWL>A jT H TlUHTV-ONE V.l'iU IIaMj*, \ ! A i. V. VI "I HE LAST TiLl -JTifJiT, Wa Y TO WEALTH, 

etc.. 1 '..vi-1 a.d., edited by J. M. Cowper, Esq. )'2n. 1872 

^vVI. (JeAVCFa's Thkatj^h on"ihk AfiTuoiAnt. Kd f Rev. W r . W r . Skent, M.A, fl*. „ 

S'VII. Thk t\*.vrr.AYST op Si-iai,.\Mir: t lo \U a. n.,wiLh an Append ix of four contemporary English 

Tracts {1 543-4 K), edited by Dr. J. A. II, Mnrrtiv. Pun I. 10*. „ 

-v * III. Tut. CfiiiMJLYNT of j^cotlast^:, 15-tJt A.o. t ed. l)r, Mnrnty. Fjirt IT. tt*. 1873 

J IX. Oun L^ntnti MykoukRj A h u. 1530, ed.liev. J. II h Blunt, M!A. 34fl. „ 

> X LoMFUL-ir's HuiTORY of the Holy Gkaiu |nb. l*3fl a,d. J, ed. F. J. Fttmivall, M.A, Parti. 8*. 1874 
X XI. Barboi B'd BnfL'fc, Fart II.. ed, Uev, \V. rikciit, M h A. 4a. „ 

>>III llK?iRY HuttfKU^w^CoMiLAYsi <u lluiuntti Wohs [apVlfi48) ;'nnd TlIK LiJlttHTACrON OP A 

Cn iiirtTiApf au.ujjst Tiik Cri u: (»f L.OMito?f, by Hcfdcrjiri> Mors, 1545, Ed. J. M. Cowper, 9*. ,, 
> \ITI Kably English FuoNt'tfCivnos, by A. J, EJlhs, Eec^, F.K.S. Part IV. 10*. „ 

^Jl V. LoNELirnV IhfiToaY of thk Holy Ghaii t td. F.J. J'tirnLvaLI, £$$,, M.A. Puirt II. 10*. 1875 
; ^-V. Gi'Y tiB WauwicKj 15tli century Vr-rMon, t i d, Prof. Zupittdr. Part t. 2i.'*. ,, 

1>/.\"T. ;:ity of w ah wick, 15th century Version, ed. Pr&f. ZupiLza, Part II. 14*. 1876 

ifc VII. Tp. Fibhkr's English Works (died 1535), ed.Prof. J. E. B. Mayor, M.A. Pt. 1. 16*. „ 

• ^ VI 1 1. Lonelich's Holy Grail, ed. F. J. Furnivall. Part III. 10*. 1877 

\IX. 13 vbboub's Brucb. Part III., ed. Kev. W. W. Skeat, M.A. 21*. „ 



$arls tfttgBfifc tot $otutg. 

The Subscription, which constitutes membership, is £1 Is. a year [and £1 Is. additional 
for the Extra Series), due in advance in January, and should be paid either to the 
Society's Account at the Head Office of the Union Bank, Princes Street, London, E.G., 
or by Cheque, Postal Order, or Money Order (made payable at the Chief Office, London) 
to the Hon. Secretary, W. A. T> > : ^eel, Esq., 67, Victoria Road, Finsbury Park, London, N., 
and crosst * Union Bank.' ■'oK-fl States Subscribers must pay for postage Is. id. a 
year for the Original Serif ,»■-&.«.. - 'ear for the Extra Series.) The Society's Texts are 
also sold separately at tb ^i-.-j-'f ♦- «u • • .* them in the Lists. 

uI'KT.Ka; SERIES. 

The Publicatic • /*: re • - 

87. Early Englisf /iv-h *i\,- - *■ ak ' /(test version), Laud MS., ed. Dr. C.Horstmann. 20*. 

88. Hy. Brads a/ "s t r/ -.\» > ■" t ,' if >{Pynson, 1521), ed. Dr. C. Horstmann, 10*. 

ThePub<vj< ,>*»w 

89. Vices ak.' " ^ ' ->i. ^ ' f = a 8 to we MS., ab. 1200Aj>.,ed.Dr. F. Holthausen. Pt.I. 8*. 

90. Anglo- ^ 'n • . . ' : B > * *r. Benbt, interlinear Glosses, ed. Dr. H. Logeman. 12*. 

91. Two ' j •->.■ - i .' . V ISOxs, ab. 1450.1450, edited from the MSS. by Mr. T. Austin. 10*. 

7 ■■', , / 'h . • ; . »;/ t , . r^ /« ; r preparing for Issue : — 
Ead* « <* C> . u\?*- ^vbr, Ttin. Cambr. MS., ab. 1150 a.d., ed. F. Harsley, B.A. [AtPrm. 
Br , «. L ■ r .-.* .>, . / i, t >n , edited from the MSS. by E. Rhodes, B.A. [At Press. 
F:"J'ur. - . > i ' v.. jaK8> Part VI. and last ed,, W. fl. 8. Utley. [At Press. 

' . j Hi'j I'« . Introduction, Notes, and Glossary, ed. Rev. Dr. R. Morris, (Part printed. 

>-;v u- * it. Essay on its MSS., their Dialects, etc., by Dr. H. Hupe. [At Press 

•: f, I • vV ( ,4chibm, by Abp. Thoresby, ed. Rev. T. Simmons & F. D. Matthew. [ Text Printed* 
C\: '• j/rh •» ■ fir. Katharine, from the unique MS., ed. Dr. C. Horstmann. [At Press. 

;>' ." - . i ». . " x>8E Romance, ed. from the unique MS., ab. 1500, by A. K. Donald, B.A. [At Press. 
y .. i .gal Lives of Saints, MS. Cott. Jul. E 7, ed. Rev. Prof. Skeat. Part III. [At Preti. 
' . . : -> V xtuks, from the unique Stowe MS., ab. 1200 a.d., ed. Dr. F. Holthausen. Part II. 



EXTRA SEEIES. 

The Publications for 1888 are :— 
MI. A Dialooue against the Fever Pestilence, 1573. By W. Bullein. Ed.M. & A. H. Bullein. U 
LI II. Vicary's Anatomie of the Body of Man, 1548, ed. 1577, ed. by F. J.&P. Furnivall. Pt. I. 1! 
LIV. Caxton's Englishing oe Alain Chartiee's Curial, ed. F. J. Furnivall & Prof. Paul M. M eyer. \ 
IfejT* The Large-Paper Issue of the Extra Series is stopt, save for unfini&ht Works of it. 

The Publications for 1889 will be chosen from : — 
LV. Barbour's Bruce, ed. Rev. Prof. W. W. Skeat. Part IV. 

IiVI. Caxton's Englishing of the Eneydos, a.d. 1590, with its French original, ed. M. T. Culley, M< 
LVII. Guy of Warwick (Auchinleck and Caius MSS.), Part III. ed. Prof. J. Zupitza Ph.D. [At Pit 
LV1II. Early English Pronunciation, by A. J. Ellis, Esq. PartV. present English Dialects. [At Pn 

Preparing : — 
Vicary's Anatomie, 1548, ed. 1577, edited by F. J. & Percy Furnivall. Part II. [.4* Press. 
Bp. Fisher's English Works, with his Life and Letters, ed. Ronald Bayne, B.A. Part II. [At Pre\ 
Hocclevk's Minor Poems, from the Phillipps MS., ed. F. J. Furnivall, M.A., Ph.D. [At Press. 
Lonrlioh's Holy Grail, ed. F. J. Furnivall, M.A. Part V. 

TheJ^Mvcations for the years 1878—1886 {One Guinea each year) are : — 
Z3TX. Lonelich's Holy Grail, ed. F. J. Furnivall, M.A. Part IV. Part IV. 15*. ] 

XXXI. The Alliterative Romance of Alexander and Dindihus, ed. Rev. W. W. Skeat. 6*. 

XXXII. Starkey's " England in Henry VIII.'s Time." Part I. Starkey's Life and Letters, 
ed. S. J. Herrtage, B.A. 8*. 

XXXIII. Gesta Romanorum (enfrlisht ab. 1440), ed. 8. J. Herrtage. B.A. 15*. 

XXXIV. Charlemagne Romances :— 1. Sir Ferumbras, Ashm. MS. 33, ed. S. J. Herrtagre, 15*. 

XXXV. Charlemagne Romances :— 2. The Seoe off Melayne, Sir Otuell, &c, ed. Herrtage. 12a. 

XXXVI. Charlemagne Rom ances :—3. Caxton's Lyf of Charles the Grete. Pt.I., ed. Herrtage. 16a. 

XXXVII. Charlemagne Romances :— 4. Caxton's Lyf of Charles the Grete, Pt. II. ed. Herrtage. 15a. 

XXXVIII. Charlemagne Romances :— 5. The Sowdone of Babylone, ed. Dr. Hausknecht. 15a. 

XXXIX. Charl. Romances :— 6 Rauf Colyear, Roland, Otuell, &c. ed. 8. J. Herrtage, B.A. 15a, 
XL. Charl. Romances : — 7. Huonof Burdeux, by Lord Berners, ed. S. L. Lee, B.A. Pt. 1. 15a. 
XLI. Charl. Romances: — 8. Huon of Burdeux, by Lord Berners, ed. S. L. Lee, B.A. Pt. II. 15a. 
XLII. Guy of Warwick : Two Texts (Auchinleck & Caius MSS.;, ed. Prof. Zupitza. Pt. I. 15a. 
XLIII. Charl. Romances : — 9. Huon of Burdeux, by Lord Berners, ed. S. L. Lee. Pt. III. 15a. 
XLIV. Charl. Romances : — 10. The Four Sons OFAYMON.ed. Miss O. Richardson. Part I. 15a. 
XLV. Charl. Romances :— 12. The Four Sons of Aymon, ed. Miss O. Richardson. Part II. 20a. 
XLVI. Sir Bevis of Hamton, from Auchinleck and other MSS., ed. Prof. E. Kolbing. Pt. I. 10a. 
XLVII. The Wars of Alexander, ed. Rev. Prof. Skeat, Litt.D., LL.D. 20*. 

XLVIII. Sir Bevis of Hamton, ed. Prof. E. KSlbing. Part II. 10*. 

XLIX. Guy of Warwick (Auchinleck and Caius MSS.), Part II. ed. Prof. J. Zupitza. 15*. 

L. Charlemagne Romances:— 11. Huon of Burdeux, by Lord Berners, ed. S. L. Lee, B.A. Pt. T 

LI. Torrent of Portyngale. from the unique MS. in the Chetham Library, ed. E. Adam, Ph. IX 



LONDON: TS. TRUBNER & CO., 57 & 59, LTJDGATK TTTT, T, 
BERLIN : ASHER & CO., 53, MOHRENSTRASSE. 



*PE- 



■ 



Q ■ 



mm 



szo. c 



STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES 

CECIL H. GREEN LIBRARY 

STANFORD, CALIFORNIA 94305-6004 

(415) 723-1493 

All books may be recalled after 7 days 

, DATE DUE 



28D 29 1995 
V 



JUN 5 1397 






FEB 17%; 



haU? 



Otr 




JUN^0 U 2004 



.. 



i 






Mfii 



I 



FROM THE 

PERSONAL LIBRARY OF 

JAMES BUELL MUNN 

1890- 1967 

BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



BERLIN: ASHER & CO., 5, TNTER DEN LINDEN. 

NEW YORK: C. SCRIBNER & CO.; LEYPOLDT & HOLT. 

PHILADELPHIA : J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO. 






(^ift^entlt-OJ^nfurii (|00lieri|-§00lts. 



HAELEIAN MS. 279 (ab. 1430), & HAEL. MS. 4016 (ab. 1450), 



EXTEACTS FEOM ASHMOLE MS. 1429, 
LAUD MS. 553, & DOUCE MS. 55. 



EDITED BY 

THOMAS AUSTIN 



LONDON: 

PUBLISHED FOR THE EAELY ENGLISH TEXT SOCIETY 
BY 2^. TRtJBNEK & CO., 57 and 59 LUDGATE HILL, E.G. 

1888. 



FOREWORDS. 



The Ancient Cookeries edited in this volume have been copied from 
Hcarleian MSS. 279 and 4016, in the British Museum. The first 
MS. was copied, and partly prepared for the press, by the late Mr. 
Faulke "Watling, of the University of Oxford, but his untimely 
death prevented his seeing it through the Press. This MS. is 
divided into three Parts, the first, headed Kalendare de Potages di/iiers, 
containing 153 recipes : the second Part, Kalendare de Leche Metijs, 
has 64 recipes, and the third Part, Dyuerse haJce metis, 41 recipes. 
This MS., besides the Cookery, contains the Bills of Fare of several 
Banquets which are noticed more fully below. The date of this MS. 
is about 1430 or 1440, and has been given a little too early on pages 
1 and 5. This has been collated with Ashmole MS. 1439, in the 
Bodleian, noted as A. in the text. For the second MS. it was origi- 
nally intended to publish Douce MS. 55, in the Bodleian Library, 
but this was found imperfect, and was replaced by Harleian MS. 
4016. They are similar books, and contain the same recipes in 
nearly the same words, the latter having a few that are not in the 
former, and vice versa. The Harleian Cookery has 182 Recipes, 
while the Douce Cookery has 184. The two have been collated, and 
are of about the same date, c. 1450. Two Banquets are prefixed to 
this MS., which are also more fully noticed below. Several of the 
recipes of the Douce MS. are appended at page 115. 

Some recipes for sauces, taken from Ashmole MS. 1439, are given 
at page 108. This MS. is about the same date as Harleian MS. 279, 
and has the same Feasts added, though some of the leaves are missing. 
These recipes are followed by others taken from two odd leaves in 
Laud MS. 553, in the Bodleian Library; see page 112. 

The first English Cookery Book seems to be that of Neckam, in 



Vm FOREWORDS. 

the twelfth century, but the Forme of Cunj is the oldest practical 
work. This was compiled by the Chief Master Cooks of Richard II., 
and contains 196 recipes. The MS. that we possess was presented 
to Queen Elizabeth by Lord Stafford, and afterwards belonged to 
the Earl of Oxford, being purchased at his sale ; it is now in the 
British Museum. This volume, with the Cookeries in Warner, 
Antiquitates Ciilinarm (1791), the Cookery published by Mrs. Napier 
in 1882, known as the Noble Boke of Cookrij, and Liber Gitre Cocoriim, 
have been used for purposes of reference, and elucidation of the 
recipes in the following MSS. The Cookery edited by Mrs. Napier 
had however, though then unknown, been previously edited by 
Pynson, as early as 1500, and again by John Byddell in 1650. 

Much of the scientific Cookery was of course French, and, as will 
be seen in the following Recipes, the French titles got singularly 
perverted, and in some cases are extremely hard to recognise. For 
instance, who at first sight would recognise Lait under Let, Froide as 
Fryil, or Sauce in Sauke ? Again Herbelettes hecomes Arbo/etti/s, and 
Aigredoux or Aigredouce, Egredouncye. The earliest Cookery Books 
that may be called English only date from the latter half of the 
seventeenth century. 

Many of the Recipes that are given here would astonish a modern 
Cook. Our forefathers, possibly from having stronger stomachs, 
fortified by outdoor life, evidentl}' liked their dishes strongly seasoned 
and piquant, as the Cinnamon Soup on p. 59 shews. Pepper, Ginger, 
Cloves, Garlic, Cinnamon, Galingale, Yinegar, Verjuice, and Wine, 
appear constantly in dishes W'here we should little expect them ; and 
even Ale was frequently used in Cookery. Wine is used in the 
recipe for Roant Partridge, on p. 78, and also, as seems more natural 
to us, in the Partridge Stews on pages 9 and 78 : it is also used for ' 
Braicn in Poivrade on p. 71. Ale is introduced in the Boures on 
p. 8, in the Sops Cliamberlain on p. 11, and in the Mortrews de Chair 
on p. 71, and is even used in the Charlette on p. 17, though Milk 
is also one of the ingredients : both Ale and Wine appear in the 
Maumenny Royal, on j). 22. Ale is also used with the Tench in Bruet 



FOREWORDS. IX 

on p. 23, in the WJielhs and Oysters in Brnef, on tlie same page, and 
in fact seems to be a characteristic of the Bruets, as most of these 
dishes have it as an ingredient. Ale was also mingled with the 
water in which the fish was boiled : note the Boiled Pihe on page 
101, the Plaice on page 103, and the Barbel, p. 104. Stale Ale is 
used for the Oil Sops on page 12, possibly in place of Vinegar. 
Vinegar is used in the Brawn on pages 11 and 12, in the Humbles of 
Venison on pages 10 and 70, and in the Venison in broth on p. 70 : 
Vinegar or Verjuice is added to the Steiced Mutton on page 72, 
Verjuice to the Meat Custard or Pie, on p. 74, and to the Trijje on 
pages 7 and 18. Here our ancestors shewed their wisdom, as the 
acid served as a corrective to the richness of the dishes. Sugar on 
the other hand is also used with Brawn, see the Blamiche Brawn on 
p. 34, and the Fried Brawn on p. 43, and was quite lately taken with 
it at St. John's College, Oxford. 

Almond milk was also a constant ingredient of the dishes : see the 
Brawn in Comfit on page 71, and the Sturmye on page 26 : it was 
also used with fish, as in the Viande de Cyprus in Lent, on page 28. 
Both Sugar and Salt are used in the Quinade on page 27, and in the 
Mortrews of Pork on page 28, Marrow was then much more used 
than at present : note the 300 marrowbones on page 67. 

Meats that we do not eat at the present day, or eat but seldom, 
also appear in the Banquets of our ancestors, as Whale, Porpoise, 
Seal, Swan, Crane, Heron, and Peacock ; while even the fishy Gull 
was eaten. One would imagine that Sturgeon was then more 
plentiful, to judge by the recipes for its cookery. Stockfish ^ was 
of course much more in vogue, from the difiiculty of obtaining 
fresh fish. "We may suppose that the Pudding of Capon Neck on 
page 41, and the Pudding of Swan Neck on page 61, were dainties. 
It would appear, from page 67, that Oxen were salted whole, 
while, to descend to the other end of the scale, small birds were 
eaten, as they still are in France (see the recipe on page 9, and 
the Royal Banquet on page 58). Our flaming Christmas Pudding 
is recalled by the Viande Ardente in the Banquet on page 61. 

1 See Glossary. 



X FOREWORDS. 

Some of the designs, or Subtleties, exposed on the Tables, as 
ornament, were of rather an ambitious character ; far more so than 
most of those mentioned on pages 57, 58, etc. These were devices 
in sugar and paste, and apj)arently in jelly, and were, at any rate at 
times, made to be eaten. Those displayed at the Enthronement of 
Abp. Warham in 1505, must have been of considerable size, as 
their description shews. They represented silvan and hunting 
scenes, and one displayed the interior of an Abbey Church with its 
various altars. In other cases such devices as a ship, fully armed 
with her ordnance, with the Barons of the Cinque Ports on board, 
or buildings with vanes and towers are exhibited. A great Custard, 
j)lanted, is displayed in a banquet given by Leland in his Collectanea. 
The dishes were also gilt at times, for j)urpose of display, as a Leche 
Lombard in the same volume ; a Peacock also is mentioned with 
a gilt nib. The Subtleties mentioned in this volume are of a much 
more modest character, representing simply an Agnus Dei, an Eagle, 
a Doctor of Law, etc. ; though those at the Stalling of John Stafford, 
on page 68, are more complicated. They seem both to have preceded 
the various courses, and also to have closed them, the first being 
called Warners, as giving warning of the entry of a fresh service. 

We will now turn to the Banquets, whose Bills of Fare the 
Cookeries give us. The .first of them [p. 57], both in place and 
importance, is that given at the Coronation of Henry the Fourth, 
and it has especial interest in the fact that a description of it is 
in the Chronicles of Froissart. Henry succeeded the dethroned 
Richard II. in 1399, as Froissart says, with the approval of the 
People of England ; Pichard having previously personally surrendered 
his Crown to him. Stow says that Henry was chosen at Westminster 
Hall, at a Parliament there. The Archbishop of Canterbury, 
Thomas Arundel, having first preached a Latin sermon, on the text, 
Hahuit Jacob benedictionem a patre suo, a Doctor of Law stood up, 
and read an Instrument which averred that Richard by his own 
confession was unworthy to reign, and would resign the Crown to 
a competent person. This having been read, the Archbishop advised 



FOREWORDS. XI 

them to proceed to tlie election of a new king, and on a vote being 
taken, the whole assembly was in Henry's favour ; Eichard not 
having four votes for him. Henry then accepted the Crown, but 
Stow says that he acquired the throne more by force than by lawful 
succession or election. 

Henry left the Tower of London, where he was then residing, on 
Sunday the 12th of October, 1399, having previously made forty-six 
new Knights of the Bath : he was dressed in a jacket after the 
German mode. He went to Westminster to sleep, and at night 
bathed, after the fashion of chivalry; next morning, Monday the 
13th, and St. Edward's day, he confessed himself and heard three 
Masses, preparatory to his Coronation. The Prelates and Clergy 
then came in procession from the Abbey, and escorted him thither, 
the return procession entering the sacred place at about nine o'clock 
in the morning. The Lord Mayor with chosen Citizens of London, 
were in the Procession, clothed alike in red. Cloth was laid down 
for the king's passage, and the Abbey was also laid with cloth. 
Henry w^as under a Canopy of blue silk, according to Froissart, 
but Holinshed makes it of Cloth of Gold, with a golden bell jingling 
at each corner; the Canopy was borne, says Holinshed, by sixteen 
Barons of the Cinque Ports, four to each Staff, though Froissart 
again differs, noting that it was borne by only four Burgesses, Dover 
ones. Holinshed is more likely right. We may suppose that these 
were the actual bearers of the Canopy : Stow, however, tells us that 
there were four other, apparently honorary bearers — the Dukes of 
York, Surrey, Aumarle, and the Earl of Gloucester. The Burgesses 
had as fees Canopy, bells, and staves. 

Preparatory to the Coronation and Banquet, Officials had been 
appointed on October 4th. The Earl of Northumberland was High 
Constable, and as holding the Isle of Man, bore on the king's left at 
the Coronation a naked sword, called Lancaster's Sword, with which 
Henry was girt when crowned ; the Earl of Somerset carried a 
sword before the king, and Thomas Beauchamp, Earl of Warwick, 
bore a third sword, by inherited right, and was also Pantler : the 



XU FOREWORDS. 

Earl of Westmoreland was Marshal. Sir Thomas Erpingham was 
Lord Chamberlain, and furnished the monarch with water for his 
hands, both before and after the Banquet, having as fee the Basin, 
Ewer, Towels, etc. The Earl of Somerset was Carver, in right of 
his Earldom of Lincoln, and Sir Wm. Argentine, by reason of his 
tenure of the Manor of Wilmundale, or Wymondley, Herts, served 
the king with the first cup of drink at dinner, and received the 
silver-gilt Cup as his fee. Thomas, Earl of Arundel, was chief 
Butler, and had the royal goblet as gift ; Citizens of London, 
chosen by the City, served in the Hall as attendants while Henry 
banqueted. Lord Latimer was Almoner for the day, the silver 
money being in a fine linen cloth ; whilst William le Yenour had 
the honour of making wafers for the king: Edmond Chambers was 
larderer, and Lord Grey of Buthjoi was Naperer (see post). 

Henry took his seat on a throne that stood on a scaffold covered 
with crimson cloth, and was then proclaimed king from the four 
corners of it by the Archbishop of Canterbury, who asked the consent 
of the people: his words were greeted with shouts of "Aye!" 
Henry was then stripped naked to his shirt previous to anointing, 
and was anointed in six places, as Froissart says, the head, breast, 
shoulders, back, and hands : he was afterwards dressed in deacon's 
clothes, with shoes of crimson velvet, and wore spurs without rowels. 
The Sword of Justice was next drawn and blessed, and given to the 
King, who returned it to the scabbard : it was then girt about him 
by the Prelate, by whom the Crown of St. Edward was also placed 
on his head. Lord Furnivall, as holding the Manor of Farnham, 
gave the King his right-hand glove, and supported his arm while he 
held the sceptre. Henry quitted the Abbey when Mass was over 
and returned to Westminster Hall, where the Banquet was given. 

At the Banquet the King sat at the first table, and at the Royal 
board were the two Archbishops and seventeen Bishops : at the 
bottom of the table was the Earl of Westmoreland with the Sceptre. 
The King was served by the Prince of Wales, who carried the Sword 
of Mercy, and on the ojDposite side by the Constable, bearing the 



FOREWORDS. XlU 

Sword of Justice. At the second table sat the five great Peers of 
England, probably the Dukes of Lancaster, York, Aumarle, Surrey,^ 
and Exeter : at the third table were the principal Citizens of London, 
apparently the Lord Mayor and Aldermen, whose table was at the 
left of the Royal table. The Barons of the Cinque Ports sat at 
a table on the right of the King : at another table sat the newly- 
created Knights ; while all Knights and Squires of Honour sat 
at a sixth. 

When the Feast was half over, the Champion, Sir Thos. Dymock, 
entered the Hall in full armour, mounted on a horse barded with 
crimson housings. He was equipped for Wager of Battle, and pre- 
ceded by another Knight, bearing his lance, and himself carried a 
drawn sword, and had by his side a naked dagger. The Champion 
presented a paper to the King, which affirmed that he was ready to 
offer combat to any Knight or Gentleman who dared maintain that 
Henry was not a lawful sovereign. By the King's orders Heralds 
proclaimed this Challenge in six different parts of the Hall and 
City, without gainsaying. The Champion received as his fee one 
of the best horses in the Royal Stable, with saddle and trappings, 
and one of the best suits of armour. When Henry had dined, and 
partaken of wine and spices, he withdrew to his private apartments, 
whither the Lord Mayor brought him a Cup of gold filled with 
wine, taking it again as his fee, together with a second cup that had 
contained water to allay the wine. 

Next follows, on page 58, the Banquet given at the King's second 
marriage, in 1404. Henry, when Earl of Derby, had married Mary, 
the younger daughter and coheiress of Humphrey de Bohun, Earl 
of Hereford and Northampton, who died in 1394. His second wife, 
in whose honour the feast was given, was Joan of Navarre, widow 
of John de Montfort, Duke of Brittany. She landed a few days 
previously at Falmouth, and was married in Winchester Cathedral 
on the 7th of February : the Banquet was possibly in the Hall of 

1 Thomas Holand, Duke of Surrey, is said to have been deprived of his Dukedom on 
Oct. 6th 1399, and was soon afterwards beheaded. Stow however writes as above. 



XIV FOREWORDS. 

the Castle, which still remains. She was crowned at "Westminster 
on the 28th of the same month, and survived her husband. 

Fabyan's Chronicle gives an account of the Feast at the 
Coronation of the Queen of Henry Y., which took place on Feb. 24th, 
1420, being St. Matthew's Day ; for which reason the Bill of Fare 
was entirely Fish, with the exception of Brawn with Mustard in the 
first Course. The Queen, at table, had the Archbishoj) of Canterbury 
on her right, and Henry Cardinal of "Winchester on her left. The 
Duke of Gloucester had charge of the Banquet, and stood bareheaded 
before the Queen, while Sir Eichard Neville was Carver. The 
brother of the Earl of Suffolk was cup-bearer. Sir John Stewart, 
Sew^er, and Lord Clifford, Panterer ; and Lord Grey of Ruthyn was 
again Naperer. The Barons of the Cinque Ports were at the head 
of the table on the right of the Queen, towards St. Stephen's Chapel, 
and the Bowchiers of the Chancery (? the Proctors) were below 
them at the same table : at a table on the Queen's left sat the 
Lord Mayor and Aldermen of London. The Bishops were at the 
head of the table next to that at which the Barons of the Cinque 
Ports sat, and the Ladies had a table next to the Lord Mayor's table. 
The Feast, as usual, was of three Courses, which were of the same 
character. "Whale was served in the first Course : in the second was 
a Leche damask with the king's motto flourished on it, which was 
Vne saiiz phis; meaning of course the Queen. In the third Course 
was Porpoise, and in this Course was a subtlety of a Tiger looking 
into a Mirror, with a man on horseback fully armed, grasping 
a Tiger's whelp. 

Henry the Sixth's Coronation Feast is also mentioned in Fabyan : 
like the others, it was in "Westminster Hall, and was also of three 
Courses. In the first Course was a Viande royale planted with 
lozenges of gold, and a Custard Rot/al with a leopard of gold sitting 
thereon. There was a Peacock enhackled in the second Course : in 
the third was a Baked meat like a shield, quartered red and white, 
and set with gilt lozenges and Borage flowers. There was a subtlet}^ 
both before and after this Course, the last one representing the 



rO REWORDS. XV 

Yirgin and Child, with St. George and St. Denis kneeling on either 
side, and presenting to the Queen a figure of Henry with the 
following ballad in his hand : — 

" blessyd Lady, Cristes moder dere, 

" And thou, seynt George ! that called art her knyght ; 

" Holy seynt Denys, marter most entei-e, 

"The sixt Henry here present in your syght, 

" Shedyth/ of your grace, on him your heuenly lyght : 

"His tender youth with vertue doth^ auaunce, 

" Borne by discent, and by tytle of ryght, 

"lastly to reygne in Englande and in Fraunce." 

It is uncertain who the Lord de la Grey was, whose Banquet 
follows [p. 59] : if, however, the feasts are given in chronological 
order, the date can be assigned within a given jseriod. Holinshed 
mentions a Lord Reginald Grey of Ruthyn that was Naperer- at 
Henry the Fourth's Coronation, on account of a manor that he 
held, and wlio bore the great spurs before Henry IV., by right of 
inheritance from the Earl of Pembroke. He is also mentioned 
above, on the previous page, and may be the person in question. 

Next follows [p. 60] the Feast of Richard Fleming, Bishop of 
Lincoln from 1420 to 1431 : he was Canon of York when preferred 
to the Bishopric. As BishoiD he exhumed and burnt the bones 
of Wyclrffe, in accordance with the sentence of the Council of 
Constance, in 1425. A dinner of John Chandler, Bishop of Salisbury 
from 1417 to 1426, follows the above [p. 60], and was given at his 
entrance on the episcopate. 

Then follows [p. 61] an Entertainment given on the 4th of 
December, 1424, on the occasion of the funeral of Nicholas Bubwith, 
Bishop of Bath and Wells. He was originally Bishop of London, 
for only a short time, and was transferred to Salisbury in 1407, and 
in the same year shifted to Bath and Wells. He was present at the 
Council of Constance. He built the north tower and a chantry in 
the Cathedral of Wells, he also founded an almshouse at Wells. 
1 Imperatives : make advance, in second case. ^ He provided the table-linen. 



XVI FOREWORDS. 



It will be noticed with regard to this Dinner, that a separate fare 
of Fish was provided for the Clergy, doubtless on account of the 
melancholy occasion. 

On page 62 is a festival given by John Stafford, Bishop of 
Bath and Wells, on the occasion of induction into his Episcopate, 
September 16th, 1425. He was born at Hook in the parish of 
Abbotsbury, Dorset, close to the Chesil Bank, and was descended 
from a collateral branch of the Stafford family. His father was 
Sir Humphrey Stafford, Sheriff of Somerset and Dorset, and his 
mother was Elizabeth Dyrham, relict of Sir John Maltravers. He 
was educated at Oxford, and first practised in the Ecclesiastical 
Courts, afterwards entei'ing holy orders. He became Archdeacon of 
Salisbury in 1419, and was made Chancellor of England, according 
to Stow about the 12th of Henry VI., 1434, according to Hook in 
1421. In 1422 he was Dean of St. Martin's Le Grand at Charing 
Cross : he was also Keeper of the Privy Seal, and Lord High 
Treasurer to Henry YI. He got the Bishopric of Bath and "Wells, 
as stated above, in 1425, and in 1443 was translated to the Arch- 
bishopric of Canterbury, on the nomination of Pope Eugenius TV., 
to whom he had been recommended by Chichele, his predecessor. 
Ihe Banquet that he gave on being made Archbishop is at page 68, 
and he gave quite a different Bill of Fare on that occasion. He 
officiated at the marriage of Henry VI. with Margaret of Anjou in 
1445, and also crowned that Queen. He was a Statesman, and was 
instrumental in the disjaersion of Jack Cade's forces : curiously 
enough he also engaged in trade. He died at Maidstone, May 25th, 
1452, and was buried at Canterbury in the Martyrdom. 

The last Feast in Harleian MS. 279 [p. 63], is one given at the 
wedding of the Earl of Devonshire, and is without date. Con- 
cerning the Earl in question, Mr. Cokayne, Norroy King at Arms, 
has been kind enough to supply the following note, through Dr. 
Furnivall : — ■ 

" Hugh Courtenay, Earl of Devon (or Devonshire), was born 
1389, being aged 30 when he succeeded his father in that Earldom 



FOREWORDS. XVU 

in 1419, His marriage, with Anne Talbot, was before 1414, and 
before he became an Earl. He died 1422. 

" His son is probably the Earl you want, viz. Thomas Courtenay, 
Earl of Devon, born 1414 (being aged 8 in 1422), who became 
Earl on his father's death in 1422. He married Lady Margaret 
Beaufort, second daughter of John, Earl of Somerset, probably about 
1431, when he would be but 17, but certainly before 1432, when 
their son Thomas, (aged 26 at his father's death in 1458,) was 
born. Lady Margaret's eldest brother was born 1401, and her eldest 
sister Joan, Queen of Scotland, was married in 1423, so that she 
probably was quite as old as, if not older than her husband." 

The remaining Festival [p. 67] is that given to Richard the 
Second by the Bishop of Durham, at Durham House, London, on 
the 23rd of September, 1387. The Bishop that feasted the King 
was John Forham, or Fordham, who held the Bishopric from 1381 
to 1388, having previously occupied the See of Ely. He was one 
of Richard's evil counsellors, and held the Office of Lord High 
Treasurer, but was discharged of it in 1386. He was among the 
Lords that rebelled against the King in 1388, but was not 
imprisoned, though in that year he was deprived of his See, and 
permitted to retire to his old Bishopric, which was of far less 
dignity. 

The Editor must add, that he has to thank Dr. Furnivall for 
most kindly collating the text with that of both the MSS., and 
he has also to thank him for some hints and information. He 
has, besides, to thank the Rev. A. L. Mayhew for criticizing 
the glossary, and for furnishing him with some old French 
derivations, etc. 

Oxford, Nov. 1888. 



Xviii READINGS OF ASHMOLE MS. 1439. 

The Ashmole MS. gives, by collation, the following variations 
and additions, but a sheet or two of it is missing in the third part. 

Pt. I, No. vi, line 3, " sette," not sethe, also in viij, p. 7, line 3. 

xii, p. 8, line 1, A. adds, after "^igr-to," "temper hit w/tA alle : take 
raysons of corance clene wasshid : put j^em ]7er-to." 

siiij, line 5, A. reads "styue," i.e. stew, not sterc. rightly. 

xxiiij, Title, A. "Brawne gruelle"; line 2, " pricke it." 

xxxiij, line 5, after Salt is added " then cut fair brewis, and dresse theym 
yn disshes, & cast j^e lire theron." 

XXXV, page 13, line 1, " leche them in faire gohettis, and pike out the 
core, and cast." 

xlv, line 4, " stue," altered from " streyne," for stere. 

xlviij, line 2, after Roysouns, A, adds " \erto, raisons"; rightly, 

lij, line 6, A. reads " sode in, and stepe ]7er-on," making sense. 

Ixvij, instead of [^mynce], A. has " larde," i.e. " cut in thin slices." 

Ixxx, after clene, A. adds, "and sethe Jjem." 

Ixxxiiij, line 6, " cleue," before noivt; making sense. 

Ixxxvij, line 7, after is, "& confecc«ons or chare de quynce a good 
qMflntite," inserted. 

Cix, lines 1, 2, "and lete wexe al white," not "an make hem alle \e 
whyte." 

Cx, after Stokhefysshe A. adds, "or of freishe mylwel or codling," and 
reads "of Plays." 

Cxlv, line 6, "fro j^e holys," rightly. 

Cliiij, line 3, A. omits siigre, (the "white" means White of egg,) and in 
line 11 reads "a-boue" in place of " aneward." 

Pt. II, viij, last line on p. 35, " and" after Pepir, making sense. 

X, A. reads at line 6, an lat it " clene ouer-renne." 

xij, page 37, A. adds " Je lus," after ivrynge, and has no "J;e" before 
grene. 

xiiij, page 37, "Jeanne take braw[n] y-broylyd and cast \er-to," added 
after "j^er-to," in line 2. 

xvij, page 37, last line, A, reads, " and so ley hit colde in J^e dysshe, and 
]:at but a litil, J^at vnnethe \e bottumys be holuyd." 

xxiij, page 39, line 1, the second salt is not in A. 

xxvij, page 39, A. reads " al aboutc loke Jjat " it le ra^ischcd ; " and lete 
hit be wcl sodyn," later-. 



READINGS OF ASHMOLE MS.; AND ERRATA. XIX 

xxviij, page 40, after Eijroun, "and rawe creme or swete mylke," added. 

xxix, page 40, after Gredelle A. adds, *' til hit be broune." 

xxxvij, p. 41, A. adds "fete," after Piggys, which, is required; and 
reads "and moche sauge." 

xxxix, last line on page 41, A. reads "& do ]7er-to a lytil ponder Canelle ;" 

xliv, page 42, last line, after panne, A. adds between lines, "& let frie 
y-nogh." 

1, page 44, last line but two, A. adds " & let hete a litel," between lines, 
after " j^er-on," and in next line adds, "and leche it, or els al hole," 
after vp. 

Ix, page 46, line eight, A. reads " white " before "Sugre," not "w«t7t-al." 

Pt. Ill, xvj, page 50, last line, A. adds, "but lete \e. cofyns," before 
lalce ; making sense. 

xxij, page 51, no blank. 

xxiij, page 52, A. adds after cofijn, line 8, "then caste in the sew rounde 
a-boute vppon hym yn J^e cofyne," and makes sense. 

The Editor did not discover the Ashmole MS. till much of the first 
Cookery was in print, and consequently was unable to make full use of 
it for purpose of collation. The reader will kindly correct the following 
Errata. 

p. 15, note 4, read Lozenges in place of "long thin strips." 

p. 17, last line, dele comma after Alntaunden, 

p. 19, 1. 4, put comma after mijllie. 

p. 21, 1. 14, read slale Water; 4th line from bottom, read " jif it [cleue] 

nowt," with A. 
p. 27, 1. 17, read, " or bony caste J^er-to ;" with no semicolon after hong. 
p. 31, 4th line from bottom, read \rifti. 
p. 48, 1. 5, read " hele j^in cofyns." 

p. 49, 1. 7, read "or a bore, or of a Bcre:" 1. 8, put semicolon after 

"Eyroun;" and dele the semicolon after tyne, reading cyue'va. 

place of that word, and also in place of the Ujne in the line aboA'c. 

p. 50, 1. 20, read "for defaute," and before bottom line add, " but lete ]e 

cofyns," with A. 
p. 57, Heading 6, read " ad Episcopatum Bathonensem et Wellensem." 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. I. 



HAELEIAN MS. 279, ab. 1420 a.d. 



'Incipit li Kalendare de Potages dyuers. 



No. 
.1. 



Jjange wortys de chare . . 

Lange wortys de Pesoun . . .ij . 

louutes iij. 

Caboges iiij. 

"Whyte wortys v. 

Beff y-stywyd vj. 

Gruelle a-forcyd vij. 

Venysoun w/tA furmenty . . .viij. 

Trype de Motoiin ix. 

"Wardonys in Siryppe . . . .x. 

Froyde Almaundys xj. 

Fryit Creme of Almandys . . .xij. 

Creme y-boylid xiij. 

Quystys Scune xiiij- 

Bowres xv. 

Fylettys in galentyne . . . .xvi. 

Garbage xvij. 

Pertryche stewyd sviij. 

Smale birdys y-stewyd . . . .xix. 

Papyns xx. 

Blandyssorye xxj. 

Venyson in brothe xxij. 

Nomblys of pe venysoun . . .xxiij. 

DrawjTi grwelle xxiiij . 

Balloke brothe xxt. 

Coleys XX vj. 

Soupcs dorye xxvij, 

Soupes lamberlayne xxviij. 

Lyode Soppes xxix. 



No. 



9 

9 

9 

9 

9 

10 

10 

10 

10 

10 

11 

11 

11 



Ooupes dorroy xxx. 11 

Brawun en peuerade . . . .xxxj. 11 

Auter brawune en peuerade . .xxxij. 12 

Oyle soppis xxxiij. 12 

Charde wardoun xxxiiij. 12 

Perys in composts xxxv. 12 

Vele, Kede, or Henne in boke- 

nade xxxvj. 13 

Autre Vele in biikenade . . .xxsvij. 13 

Storion en broj^e xxxviij. 13 

Oystres in grauy xxxix. 13 

Oystres in grauy bastard . . .xl. 13 

Gelyne in dubbate xlj. 13 

Conyng, Mawlard, in gely or 

in cyuey xlij 14 

Mortrewys of Fysshe . . . .xliij. 14 

Mortrewys de Fleysshe . . .xliiij. 14 

For to make blaunche Perrey. .xlv. 1 4 

Pommes ^1^'j- 14 

Cawdelle Ferry xlvij, 15 

Taylowres xlviij. 15 

Bryndons xlix. 15 

A potage on a Fysshe day . .1. 15 

Cawdel de Almaunde . . . .Ij. 16 

Gyngaudre Iij. 16 

Eapeye Iiij. 16 

Eapeye liiij. 16 

luschelle of Fysshe Iv. 16 

Charlette Ivj. 17 



leaf 1. 



CONTENTS OF HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGES DYUERS. 



lente 



fjTe 



Charlette a-forcyd ryaly . 

Let Lory 

Furmenty vfith purpaysse 
Trype of Turbutor of Codlyng 
A gos in hogepotte 
Conyngys in graueye 
Harys in cyiiey . . 
Capon in Consewe . 
Hennys in bruette . 
Bruet Sareson . . 
Bniet of Almayne 
Bruet of Almaynne in 
Whyte Mortrewys 
Faintempere 
Murrey .... 
Talbottys . . 
Conyngys in cyuey 
Arbolettys . , , 
Spyneye .... 
Brasele ... 
Crerae de Coloure . 
Colouryd sew Wit/iout 
Apple mose . 
Salomene 
Blaundyssorye . 
Blamangere . . 
Vyand de C}'prys bastard 
Vyand de cyprys ryalle 
Gaylede . . . 
Rys . . . . 
Mammenye ryalle 
Mammenye bastard ^ 
Elys in Gauncely . 
Hennys in Gauncely 
Vyolette . . . 
Oystrys in bruette 
"Walkys in bruette 
Tenche in bruette 
Tenche in cyueye . 
Tenche in Sauce . 
Chykonys in bruette 
Blaniangipr of Fysshe 
Sardeynejs . . . 
Roseye .... 
Eyroun in poche 

» leaf 2 



No. P 
.Ivij. 
.Iviij. 
.Hx. 
.Ix. 
.Ixj. 
.Ixij. 
.Ixiij. 
.Ixiiij. 
.Ixv. 
.Ixvj. 
.Ixvij. 
.Ixviij. 
.Ixix. 
.Ixx. 
.Ixxj. 
.Ixxij. 
.Ixxiij . 
.Ixxiiij. 
.Ixxv. 
.Ixxvj. 
.Ixxvij. 
.Ixxviij. 
.Ixxix. 
.Ixxx. 
.Ixxxj. 
.Ixxxij. 
.Ixxxiij. 
.Ixxxiiij. 
.Ixxxv. 
.Ixxxvj. 
.Ixxxvij. 
.Ixxxviij. 
.Ixxxix. 
.Ixxxx. 
.Ixxxxj. 
.Ixxxxij. 
•Ixxxxiij. 
.Ixxxxiiij. 
.Ixxxxv. 
.Ixxxxv] . 
.Ixxxxvij. 
.Ixxxxviij. 
.Ixxxxix. 
.C. 
• Cj. 



sge No. Page 

17 Muskelys in bruette . . . .Cij. 24 

17 Fygeye Ciij. 24 

17 Bolas Ciiij. 24 

18 Loreyde bolas Cv. 25 

18 Rapeye of Fleyssbe . . . .Cvj. 25 

18 Sore sengle Cvij. 25 

18 Prymerose Cviij. 25 

18 Gelye de chare Cix. 25 

18 Gelye de Fysshe Cx. 26 

19 Tannye Cxi. 26 

19 Sturmye Cxij. 26 

19 Bruette sake Cxiij. 27 

19 Taylys Cxiiij. 27 

19 Quynade Cxv. 27 

19 Blaunche de ferry . . . .Cxvj. 27 

19 Sawge^ Cxvij. 28 

20 Murreye Cxviij. 28 

20 Vyaunde de cyprys in Lente .Cxix. 28 

20 Whyte Mortrewys of Porke. .Cxx. 28 

20 Rapeye Cxxj. 28 

20 A rede morreye Cxxij. 28 

20 Stawberye Cxxiij. 29 

20 Chyrioun Cxxiiij. 29 

21 Vyolette Cxxv. 29 

21 Rede Rose Cxxvj. 29 

21 Prymerose Cxxvij. 29 

21 Flourys of haw^orn . . . .Cxxviij. 29 

21 A potage on a fyssheday . .Cxxix. 29 

22 Brues in lente Cxxx. 29 

22 A potage colde Cxxxj. 30 

22 Sauke sarsouu Cxxxij. 30 

22 Rapeye Cxxxiij. 30 

22 Apple moyle Cxxxiiij. 30 

23 Applade Ryal Cxxxv. SO 

23 A potage of Roysonys . . .Cxxxvj. 30 

23 Chykonys in dropey . . . .Cxxxvij. 30 

23 Pumpes Cxxxviij. 31 

23 Caudel Ferry departy with 

23 a blamanger Cxxxix, 31 

23 Egredouncye Cxi. 31 

23 Noteye Cxlj. 31 

23 Vyaunde Ryal Cxlij. 32 

24 Lampreys in galeutyne . . .Cxiiij. 32 
24 Chycouys wyth pe brewes . .Cxliiij. 32 
24 Blaunche pereye Cxlv. 32 

• leaf 2 bk. » leaf 3. 



CONTENTS OF HARLEIAN MS. 279. LECHE METYS. 



No. Page 

Kytli so caboges 1 Cxlvj. 33 

Brewes in lentyn Cxlvij. 33 

WLjiie pesyn iu grauey . . .Cxlviij. 33 
A potage Cxlix. 33 



No. Page 

Caudel owt of lentyn . . . .CI. 33 

Creme bastard' Clj. 33 

Capon in Salome Clij. 33 

Pompys Cliij. 34 



2 Hie incipit 

Brawn in comfyte j. 

Blaunche braun ij. 

Pynade iij. 

Gyngere brede iiij. 

Leche Lumbard v. 

Auter maner lecbe Lumbard . .vj. 

Soupes of salomere vij. 

Lete lardys viij. 

Mange molejTi ix. 

Vyand de Lecbe x. 

Vyand Lecbe xj. 

Vyand Lecbe xij. 

Vyand lecbe xiij. 

Vyand lecbe xiiij. 

Storioun lecbe iv. 

Cbare de wardon leche . . .xvj. 

Vyand lecbe x^'ij- 

Vyand lecbe xviij. 

Pome dorres ...... .xix. 

Yrchons xx. 

An entrayle xxj. 

For to make Floiire of Eys . .xxij. 

Pome garnej xxiij. 

Waffres xxiiij. 

Hagws of a scbepe xxv. 

Francbemyle x^^j- 

Apprayler xxvij. 

Cokyntryce xxviij 

Mylke Rostyd ^ xxix. 

Alowys de Beef or Motoun . .xxx. 
To make stekys of Venysoun 

or Beef xxxj. 

A Syrippe pur vn Pestelle . .xxxij . 
Pygge Farcyd xxxiij 



Ealendar^ de Leche Metys. 

34 Puddyng of Capoun necke 
Capoun or goos farcyd 
Pocerounce . . . 
Sauoge .... 
A kyde a-force . . 
Eyroun in lente 
Puddyng of Purpays 
Raynollys 
Froyse in lente 
Payn purdew 
Meselade . . 
Brawn fryej . 
Longe Fretoure 
Eapeye .... 
Euschewys in lente 
Hanoney .... 
Hagase de Almayne 
Cryspis .... 
Ruscbewys of Marw 
LesjTiges de cbare . 
Fretoure .... 
Cbawettys fryej 
Tansye .... 
Froyse out of lentyn 



34 
34 
35 
35 
35 
35 
35 
36 
36 
36 
36 
37 
37 
37 
37 
37 
38 
38 
38 
38 
38 
38 
39 
39 
39 
39 
40 
40 
40 

40 
40 
40 



.XXXUIJ. 
.XXXV. 
.XXXV] . 

•xxxvij. 
.xxxvii], 
.xxxix. 
.xl. 

.xlj_. 

• ^li j • 

.xliij. 

.xliiij. 

.xlv. 

.xlvj. 

.xlvij. 

.xlviij. 

.xlix. 

.1. 

•Ij- 

.Iij. 

.Iiij. 

.liiij. 

.Iv. 

.Ivj. 

.Ivij. 



41 

41 
41 
41 
41 
41 
42 
42 
42 
42 
42 
43 
43 
43 
43 
43 
44 
44 
44 
44 
44 
45 
45 
45 



[One leaf is missing here; the contents are 

supplied from the text.] 

[Ryscbewys close & Fryez . .Iviij. 45 

Nese Bekys lix. 45 

Mylez in Eapeye Ix. 46 

Cruste Eolle Ixj. 46 

Cbawettys a-forsed Ixij. 46 

Fretoure owt of lente . . . .Ixiij. 46 

Towres Ixiiij 46 



Tartes de Cbare . . . 

A-noj^er manere ij. 

A-no]ier manere iij 

1 leaf 3 bk. 



Here begynnytb dyuerse bake metis. 
. . .j. 47 Daryoles . . . 



iiij- 47 

47 A-notber manere v. 47 

47 Tartes of Fysscbe vi. 47 

2 leafi. 3 leafi bk. 



CONTENTS OF HARLEIAN MS. 279. BAKE METYS. 



No. Page 

Chawettys . vij. 48 

Chawettys viij. 48 

Malmenye Furnez ix, 48 

Eapeye x. 48 

Tartes of Frute in lente . . .xj. 48 
Un vyaunde fumej sanj nouw 

de chare xij. 49 

Un vyaunde furnej sanj nom 

de chare siij. 49 

Pety Pernollys xiiij. 50 

Doucetej xv. 50 

Crustade xvj. 50 

Crustade lumbard ^^"'j- ^l- 

Flathons x^iij. 51 

Venyson y-bake xix. 51 

Pety Pernauntes xx. 51 

Quyncis or Wardo?«ns in past . .xxj. 51 

Lampro2ms y-bake xxij. 51 

Lamprays bake xxiij. 52 



No. Pace 

Tartes de chare xxiiij. 52 

Rastons xxv. 62 

Darioles ^xvj. 53 

Pyej de parej xxvij. 53 

Potrous xxviij. 53] 

^ Flarapoyntys bake . . . .xxix. 53 

Sew trappe xxx. 54 

Herbelade xxxj. 54 

A Bake Mete xxxij. 54 

A Bake Mete Eyalle . . . .xxxiij 55 

Crustade Ryal xxxiiij. 55 

Crustade xxxv. 5-5 

Crustade gentyle xxxvj. 55 

Doucettys xxxvij. 55 

Doucettys a-forcyd . . . .xxxviij. 55 

Daryolej xxxix. 55 

Dar)-ole5 xl. 56 

Flathons in lente xlj. 56 



leaf 5. 



COOKERY BOOK. 1. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. I. 

Ab. 1420 A.D. 



TOT AGE DYVERS. 

.j. Lange Wortys de chare. — Take beeff and merybonys, and boyle yt in 
fayre -^ater; j^an take fayre wortys and wassche hem clene in water, and 
parboyle hem in clene water ; ]>an take hem vp of J^e water after j^e fyi-st 
boylyng, an cut ]>e leuys a-to or a-J^re, and caste hem in-to fe beff, and boyle 
to gederys: j^an take a lof of whyte brede and grate yt, an caste it on j^e 
pot, an safron & salt, & let it boyle y-now, and serue forth. 

.ij. Lange Wortes de pesoun. — Take grene pesyn, an washe hem clene 
an caste hem on a potte, an boyle hem tyl ]>ej breste, an Jeanne take hem 
vppe of ])e potte, an put hem with brothe yn a-no|7er potte, and lete hem 
kele ; ]?an draw hem Jjorw a straynowre in-to a fayre potte, an J'an take 
oynonys, and screde hem in to or j^re, an take hole wortys and boyle hem 
in fayre water : and take hem vppe, an ley hem on a fayre bord, an cytte 
on .iij. or iiij., an ley hem to j^e oynonys in ]>& potte, to ]>e drawyd pesyn ; 
an let hem boyle tyl J^ey ben tendyr; an Jeanne tak fayre oyle and frye 
hem, or ellys sum fresche bro]7e of sum manor fresche fysshe, an caste J>er-to, 
an Safron, an salt a quantyte, and serue it forth. 

.iij. Joutes. — Take Borage, Yyolet, Malwys, Percely, Tong "Wortys, Bete, 
Auence, Longebelf, wyth Orage an oper, pyke hem clene, and caste hem 
on a vessel, and boyle hem a goode whyle ; Jian take hem and presse hem 
on a fayre bord, an hew hem ryght smal, an put whyte brede Jier-to, an 
grynd wyth-al; an Jjan caste hem in-to a fayre potte, an gode freshe brothe 
y-now ]7er-to ]7orw a straynowr, [& caste] ]7er-to .ij. or .iij. Marybonys, or 
ellys fayre fresche brothe of beff, and let hem sethe to-gederys a whyle : 

1 leaf 6. 



6 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 

an j^an caste J^er-to Safron, and let hem setlie to-gederys a whyle, an J?an 
caste ]7er-to safron and salt ; and serue it forth in a dysshe, an bakon 
y-boylyd in a-no]?er dysshe, as men seruyth furmenty Tvyth venyson. 

^.iiij. Caboges. — Take fayre caboges, an cutte hem, an pike hem clene 
and clene washe hem, an parboyle hem in fayre water, an Jeanne presse 
hem on a fayre bord ; an ]7an choppe hem, and caste hem in a faire pot 
'with goode freysshe broth, an wyth mery-bonys, and let it boyle : Jeanne 
grate fayre brede and caste jier-to, an caste ]7er-to Safron an salt ; or ellys 
take gode grwel y-mad of freys flesshe, y-draw )7orw a strayno2<r, and 
caste ]7er-to. An whan jjou seruyst yt inne, knocke owt J^e marw of ]>e 
bonys, an ley ])e marwe .ij. gobettys or .iij. in a dysshe, as j^e semyth best, 
& serue forth. 

.v. Whyte wortes. — Take of J^e erbys lyke as J^ou dede for jouutes, and 
sethe hem [in] water tyl j^ey ben neyshe ; Jianne take hem vp, an bryse 
hem fayre on a bord, as drye as J>ow may ; J^an choppe hem smale, an caste 
hem on a potte, an ley hem -with flowre of Rys ; take mylke of almaundys, 
an cast Jier-to, & hony, nowt to moche, ]7at it be nowt to swete, an safron 
& salt ; an serue it forth ynne, ryjth for a good potage. 

.yj. Beef y-Stywyd. — Take fayre beef of ]>e rybbys of ])e fore quarterys, 
an smyte in fayre pecys, an wasche ]>e beef in-to a fayre potte ; ]>an take 
J7e water j^at J^e beef was sojiin yn, an strayne it Jiorw a straynowr, an sethe 
fe same water and beef in a potte, an let hem boyle to-gederys ; j^an take 
canel, clowes, maces, graynys of parise, quibibes, and oynons y-mynced, 
pwceli, an sawge, an caste )7er-to, an let hem boyle to-gederys ; an ]?an 
take a lof of brede, an stepe it yvith brothe an venegre, an j^an draw it j^orw 
a straynoure, and let it be sty lie ; an whan it is nere y-now, caste ]ie lycour 
]7er-to, but nowt to moche, an ]>aB. let boyle onys, an cast safroun ]?er-to a 
quantyte ; J^an take salt an venegre, and cast J'er-to, an loke jiat it be 
poynaunt y-now, & serue forth. 

.vij. Gruelle a-forsydde. — Take otemele, an grynd it smal, an sethe it 
"wyl, an porke J^er-ynne, an pulle of J^e swerde^ an pyke owt ]>e bonys, an 
jjan hewe it, an grynd it smal in a morter ; ]7an neme J^in * grwel an do 
j7er-to, jjan strayne it |>orw a straynour, an put it in a potte an sethe it a 
lytel, an salt it euene^; an colour it wyth safrou», an serue forth rennyng. 

•Viij . Venyson with Furmenty. — Take whete and pyke it cleue, and do it 
in a morter, an caste a lytel water ]7er-on ; an stampe with a pestel tyl it 

^ If. 6 back. ^ leaf 7 ((r^^ = well). ^ sward, rind, skin. * thiue. * equally. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVEUS. 7 

hole '; ])an fan owt j^e holys,^ an put it in a potte, an let sethe tyl it breke ,* 
fan set yt doun??, an sone after set it ouer J-e fyre, an stere it wyl ; an wlian 
]70w hast sothyn it wyl, put ]>er-inne swete mylke, an sej^e it y-fere, an stere 
it wyl ; and whan it is y-now, coloure it wyth safron, an salt it euene, and 
dresse it forth, & )?in venyson in a-nother dyshe w^tA fayre hot water. 

.ix. Trype de Motoun. — Take fe pownche of a chepe, and make it clene, 
an caste it on a pot of boylyng water, an skyme it clene, an gader J^e grece 
al a-way, an lat it boyle tyl it be tender ; ])an ley it on a fayre bord, an 
kyt it in smale pecys of the' peny brede, an caste it on an erj>en pot with 
strong brothe of bef or of moton ; Jeanne take leuys of ]>e p^/'cely an hew 
hem ]>er-to, an let hem boyle to-gederys tyl j^ey byn tender, j^an take 
powder of gyngere, and verious, J^an take [Safroun] ^ an salt, and caste 
J'cr-to, an let boyle to-gederys, an serue in, 

.X. Wardonys in syryp. — Take wardonys, an caste on a potte, and boyle 
hem till j^ey ben tender ; }'an take hem vp and pare hem, an kytte hem in 
to * pecys ; take y-now of powder of canel, a good quantyte, an caste it on 
red wyne, an draw it J^orw a straynour ; caste sugre j^er-to, an put it [in] an 
erj^en pot, an let it boyle : an Jeanne caste j^e perys j^er-to, an let boyle to- 
gederys, an whan ]>ej haue boyle a whyle, take ponder of gyngere an caste fei- 
to, an a lytil venegre, an a lytil safron ; an loke fat it be poynaunt an dowcet. 

^xj. Froyde almoundys. — Take blake sugre, an cold water, an do hem 
to'' in a fayre potte, an let hem boyle to-gedere, an salt it an skeme it clene, 
an let it kele ; j^an take almaundys, an blawnche hem clene, an stSmpe 
hem, an draw hem, with fe sugre water thikke y-now, in-to a fayre vessel : 
an [yf] fe mylke be nojt swete y-now, take whyte sugre an caste )7er-to. 

.xij. Fride Creme of Almaundys. — Take almaundys, an sta?«pe hem, an 
draw it vp wyth a fyne thykke mylke, y-temperyd wyth clene water; throw 
hem on, an sette hem in fe fyre, an let boyle onys : fan tak hem a-down, 
an caste salt )7er-on, an let hem reste a forlongwey ^ or to, an caste a lytyl 
sugre Jier-to ; an J^an caste it on a fayre lynen clothe, fayre y-wasche an 
drye, an caste it al a-brode on fe clothe with a fayre ladel : an let J^e clothe 
ben holdyn a-brode, an late all j^e water vnder-nethe fe clothe be had a-way, 
an panne gadere alle fe kreme in fe clothe, an let hongy on an pyn, and let 
fe water droppe owt to' or .iij. owrys ; )7an take it of J^e pyn, an put it on a 
bolle of tre, and caste whyte sugre y-now ]7er-to, an a lytil salt ; and ^if it 

1 Hull, lose the husks. ^ Hulls ; husks. ^ MS. they. * Added from A. 

* ? = ' in two pieces.' ^ If. 7 bk. '' two. * Other U.'S. forlatige. 



" COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYYERS. 

Tvexe J^ikke, take swete wyn an put ]jer-to 'pat it be nojt sene : and whan it 
is I-dressid in the maner of mortrewys, take red anys in comfyte, or ]'e leuys 
of borage, an sette hem on J^e dysshe, an serue forth. 

.xiij. Creme Boylede. — Take creme or mylke, &' brede of paynemayn, 
or ellys of tendyr brede, an breke it on ]>e creme, or eWes in ]>e mylke, an 
set it on ]>e fyre tyl it be warme hot ; and ]7orw a straynour |)rowe it, and 
put it in-to a fayre potte, an sette it on J^e fyre, an stere euermore : an whan 
it is almost y-boylyd, take fayre jolkys of eyron, an draw hem J^orw a 
straynowr, and caste hem J^er-to, and let hem stonde oner the fyre tyl it 
boyle almost, an till * it be skylf ully ^ jpikke ; ]7an *caste a ladel-ful, or more 
or lasse, of boter ]7er-to, an a good quantite of whyte sugre, and a litel salt, 
an ]'an dresse it on a dysshe in maner of mortrewys. 

.xiiij. ftuystis Scune. — Take a pece of beef or of mutou??, and wyne and 
fayre water, and caste in-to a potte, an late hem boyle, an skeme it wyl an 
clene ; ]7an take quystes, an stoppe hem wyth-in wyth hole pepyr, and 
marwe, an Jian caste hem in-to J^e potte, an ceuere wyl ]>e potte, an let hem 
stere ryjth wyl to-gederys; an ]?an take powder gyngere, and a lytel 
verious an salt, and caste J7er-to, an Jeanne serue hem forth in a fayre dysshe, 
a quyste or to in a dysshe, in jie manor of a potage : an whan ]>owe shalt 
serue hem forth, take a lytil of J^e broth, an put on dysshe wyth quystys, an 
serue forth. 

.XV. Bowres.— Take Pypis, Hertys, Nerys, Myltys, an Rybbys of the 
Swyne ; or ellys take Mawlard, or Gees, an chop hem smal, and thanne 
parboyle hem in fayre water ; an Jian take it vp, and pyke it clene in-to a 
fayre potte, an caste J?er-to ale y-now, & sawge an salt, and j^an boyle it 
ryjth wel ; and J7anne serue it forthe for a goode potage. 

.xvj. Fylettys en Galentyne. — Take fayre porke, ]>e fore quarter, an 
take of ]>e skyne ; an put Jje porke on a fayre spete, an rost it half y-now ; 
Jjan take it of, an smyte it in fayre pecys, & caste it on a fayre potte ; J^an 
take oynonys, and schrede hem, an pele hem (an pyle hem nowt to smale), an 
f rye in a panne of fayre grece ; l^an caste hem in }e potte to ]>e porke ; )7an 
take gode broth of moton or of beef, an caste J^er-to, an J^an caste J^er-to 
pouder pepyr, canel, clowys, an macys, an let hem boyle wyl to-gederys ; 
Jian tak fayre brede, an vynegre, an stepe j^e brede with ]>e same brothe, an 
strayne it on blode, with ale, or ellys sawnderys, and *salt, an lat hym boyle 
y-now, an serue it forth. 

1 MS or. ^ MS, >ow. 3 reasonably. * leaf 8. * leaf 8 bk. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS, 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 9 

.xvij. Garbage. — Take fayre garbagys of chykonys, as J^e lied, J^e fete, ]ie 
lyiierys, an ]>e gysowrys ; washe hem clene, an caste hem in a fayre potte, 
an caste }7er-to freysshe brothe of Beef or ellys of moton, an let it boyle ; an 
a-lye it wyth brecle, an ley on Pepir an Safroun, Maces, Clowys, an a lytil 
verious an salt, an serue forth in the maner as a Sewe. 

.xviij. Pertrich stewyde. — Take fayre mary,^ brothe of Beef or of Motou??, 
an whan it is wyl sothyn, take J^e brothe owt of J^e potte, an strayne it 
thorw a straynowr, an put it on an erj^en potte ; J^an take a gocle quantyte 
of Tvyne, as ]70W it were half, an put ]'er-to ; ];an take j^e pertryche, an 
stufFe hym wyth hole pepir, an merw,^ an than sewe J'e ventys of ])e 
pertriche, an take clowys an maces, & hole pepir, an caste it in-to J^e potte, 
an let it boyle to-gederys ; an whan J^e pertryche is boylid y-now, take J^e 
potte of ]ie fyre, an whan thou schalt scrue hym forth, caste in-to j^e potte 
powder gyngere, salt, safron, an serue forth. 

.xix. Smale Bp:dys y-stwyde. — Take smale byrdys, an pulle hem an 
drawe hem clene, an washe hem fayre, an schoppe of ]>e leggys, and frye hem 
in a panne of freysshe grece ryjt wyl ; ]?an ley hem on a fayre lynen clothe, 
an lette ]>e grece renne owt ; J' an take oynonys, an mynce hem smale, an 
frye hem on fayre freysshe grece, an caste hem on an erj^en potte ; 
]7an take a gode porcyon of canel, an wyne, an draw ]7orw a straynoure, an 
caste in-to J^e potte •with j^e oynonys ; ]>an caste ]>e bryddys J^er-to, an clowys, 
an maces, an a lytil quantyte of powder pepir ]iev-to, an lete hem boyle 
to-gederys y-now ; ]>an. caste J^er-to whyte sugre, an powder gyngere, salt, 
safron, an serue it forth. 

.XX. Papyns. — Take fayre Mylke an Plowre, an drawe it ]7orw a ^strayn- 
oure, an set it ouer J^e fyre, an let it boyle a-whyle ; ]7an take it owt an 
let it kele ; J^an take jolkys of eyroun y-draw ]7orwe a straynour, an caste 
J'er-to ; j^an take sugre a gode quantyte, and caste j^er-to, an a lytil salt, 
an sette it on ]>e fyre tyl it be sum -what j^ikke, but let it nowt boyle 
fullyche, an stere it wyl, an putte it on a dysshe alle a-brode, and serue 
forth rennyng. 

.xxj. Blandissorye. — Take almaundys, an blawnche hem, an grynde hem 
in a morter, an tempore hem -with freysshe broj^e of capoun or of beef, an 
swete wyne ; an jif it be lente or fyssday, take brothe of J^e freysshe fysshe, 
an swete wyne, an boyle hem to-gederys a goode whyle ; j^enne take it up, 
an caste it on a fayre lynen clo]?e j^at is clene an drye, an draw under J^e 

> Marrow. No. 28, in Douce MS., has my^fy brothe. * Marrow. ^ If. 9. 



10 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 

c\oj)e, wyth a ladel, alle j^e water J^at ]70w may fynde, ryth as ]70w makyst 
cold creme ; Jeanne take owt of the potte, an caste it in-to a fayre potte, an 
let it boyle ; an Jeanne take brawn of Capoun, an tese it smal an bray it [in] 
a mortar : or ellys on a fyssday take Pyke or Elys, Codlyng or Haddok, an 
temper it we'tA almau?J mylke, an caste Sugre y-now j^er-to ; An }ian caste 
hem in-to J7e potte and lete hem boyle to-gederys a goode whyle : j^enne 
take it owt of J^e potte alle bote, an dresse it in a dysshe, as meni ' don 
cold creme, an sette j^er-on Eed Anys in comfyte, or ellys Allemaundys 
blaunchid, an Jeanne serue it forth for a goode potage. 

•xxij. Venyson in Broth. — Take Kybbys of Venysouu, and wasshe hem 
clene in fayre water, an strayne ]>e same water ]^orw a straynoure in-to a 
potte, an caste ]7er-to Yenysoun, also Percely, Sawge, powder Pepyr, Clowys, 
Maces, Yynegre, and a lytyl Red wyne caste J^ere-to ; an j^anne latte it boyle 
tyl it be y-now, & serue forth. 

.xxiij. Nomblys of J^e venyson. — Take l^e Nombles of Venysoun, an cutte 
hem smal whyle j^ey ben raw ; j^an take Fieysshe bro]?e, Watere, an Wyne, 
of eche a quantyte, an powder Pepir an Canel, and let hem ^boyle to-gederys 
tyl it be almost y-now ; An l^enne caste powder Gyngere, an a lytil venegre 
an Salt, an sesyn it vp, an Jeanne serue it forth in ]>e maner of a gode 
potage. 

.xxiiij. Drawyn grwel. — Take fayre water an lene Bef, an let hem 
boyle ; an whan ])e beef hath y-boylid, take it vp an pyke it, an lete it blede 
in-to ^ a vessel, an Jienne caste ]>e blode an ]>e Fleysshe in-to a potte ; an 
Jeanne caste )7er-to Otemele, Percely, & Sawge, an make ]7er-of an gode 
grwele ; ]>en draw it ]7orw a straynowre, an putte it on a fayre potte, an let it 
boyle ; ]7anne caste J^er-to Salt ; An jif it be nowt brown y-now, take a litil 
blode an caste j>er-to or it be y-draw, an make it brouw y-now, an serue 
it forth. 

.XXV. Balloke Brothe. — Take Elys and fle hem, an kytte hem in gobo^ms, 
an caste hem in-to a fayre potte w«t/j fayre water ; J^an take Percely and 
Oynonys, an schrede hem to-gederys nowt to smal ; take Clowes, Maces, an 
powder Pepyr, an caste J^er-to a gode porcyon of wyne ; Jjen take jest of Kew 
ale an caste )>er-to, an let boyle : an when J^e Elys byn wyl y-boylid, take 
fayre stokfysshe, an do a- way 'pe skyn, an caste j^er-to, an let boyle a whyle ; 
J;en take Safroun and Salt, an a lytil Yenegre, an caste j^er-to, an serue forth. 

.xxvj. Coleys. — Take a gode Capoun an boyle hem tendere, an pyke a-way 
1 MS. men. * If. 9 bk. ^ MS. blede in-to, repeated. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 11 

clene ]>e bonys an jie Skyn, an bray hym in a morter, an tempere hym Tvyth 
j^e same brothe, an strayne hym j^orw a straynoure ; ]?enne take ]>g brawn an 
j>e fleyssbe, an a lytil whyte brede, an bray hem alle to-gederys in a morter ; 
j^en take ]'e lycowr of J'e bonys, an ])e skyn, an ]>e brothe ]7at 'pe Capoim was 
sothyn ynne, an with al tempere it, but nowt to j^icke ; Jien put it in a potte, 
an let it be al bote, but let it boyle for no J^ing ; an caste Jier-to a litil powder 
of Gyngere, Sugre an Salt. An jif it be on a fyssheday, take Haddok, 
Pyke, Tenche, Eejge, Codlynd, an pyke a-way ]>e bonys 'an tempere wyth 
almaunde mylke ; an make it hot, an caste J^er-to Sugre an Salt, an seme 
forth. 

.xxvij. Soupes dorye. — Take gode almaunde mylke y-draw wyth wyn, 
an let hem boyle to-gederys, an caste J^er-to Safroun an Salt ; an J^an take 
Paynemayn, an kytte it an toste it, an wete it in wyne, an ley it on a 
dysshe, an caste ]>e syrip )?er-on. And j^an make a dragge of powder 
Gyngere, Sugre, canel, Clowes, Maces, an caste Jier-on When it is y-di'essid, 
an serue Jeanne forth for a potage gode. 

.xxviij. Soupes Jamberlayne.- — Take "Wyne, Canel, an powder of 
Gyngere, an Sugre, an of eche a porcyou??, pan take a straynoure & hange it 
on a pynne, an caste ale j^er-to, an let renne twyis or J^ryis throgh, tyl it 
renne clei'e ; an ]>en take Paynemaynhe an kyt it in maner of brewes, an 
toste it, an wete it in J^e same lycowre, an ley it on a dysshe, an caste 
blawnche powder y-now J^er-on ; an 'pan caste pe same lycowr vp-on pe 
same soppys, [an] serue hem forth in maner of a potage. 

.xxix. Lyode Soppes. — Take Mylke an boyle it, an J-anne take plkys of 
eyroun y-tryid fro J^e whyte, an draw hem J^orwe A straynoure, an caste hem 
in-to J^e mylke, an sette it on pe fyre an hete it, but let it nowt boyle ; an 
store it wyl tyl it be somwhat J^ikke ; j^enne caste ]7er-to Salt & Sugre, an 
kytte fayre paynemaynnys in round soppys, an caste j^e soppys ]7er-on, an 
serue it forth for a potage. 

.XXX. Soupes dorroy. — Shere Oynonys, an frye hem in oyle ; Jeanne take 
Wyne, an boyle with Oynonys, toste whyte Brede an do on a dysshe, an 
caste J^er-on gode Almaunde Mylke, & temper it wyth wyne : ]7aune do J^e 
dorry a-bowte, an messe it forth. 

^xxxj. Brawn en Peuerade. — Take Wyne an powder Canel, and draw it 
J'orw a straynour, an sette it on pe fyre,* and lette it boyle, an caste ]7er-to 
Clowes, Maces, an powder Pepyr ; ]?an take smale Oynonys al hole, an 
' leaf 10. » Chamberlain. 3 leaf lo bk. 



12 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYTERS. 

par-boyle hem in hot watere, an caste )>er-to, and let hem boyle to-gederys; 
]?an take Brawn, an lesshe it, but nowt to ):'inne. An jif it sowsyd be, lete 
it stepe a whyle in hot water tyl it be tendere, fan caste it to ]?e Sirip ; Jjen 
take Sawnderys, an Yynegre, an caste )>er-to, an lete it boyle alle to-gederys 
tyl it be y-now ; fen take Gyngere, an caste J'er-to, an so serue forth ; but 
late it be nowt to l^ikke ne to J'inne, but as potage shulde be. 

.xxxij. Auter brawn en peuerade. — Take myghty brothe of Beef or of 
Capouu, an ]-'enne take clene Freysshe Brawn, an sethe it, but not y-now; An 
jif it be Freysshe Brawn, roste it, but not I-now, an ]7an leche it in pecys, 
an caste it to fe brothe. An Jeanne take hoole Oynonys, & pylle hem, an 
)'anne take Yynegre J'er-to, and Canelle, and sette it on fe fyre, an draw yt 
foTW a straynoure, and caste J'er-to ; j^en take Clowys, Maces, an powder 
Pepyr, an caste J>er-to, and a lytil Saunderys, an sette it on j>e fyre, an let 
boyle tylle ]>e Oynonys an ]?e Brawn ben euyne sothyn, an nowt to moche ; Jian 
take lykoure y-mad of Bred an Yinegre an Wyne, an sesyn it vp, an caste 
J'er-to Saffroun to make J^e coloure bryth, an Salt, an serue it forth. 

.xxxiij. Oyle Soppys. — Take a gode quantyte of Oynonys, an mynse hem 
not to smale, an sethe in fayre Water : J'an take hem vp, an take a gode 
quantite of Stale Ale, as .iij. galouns, an J'er-to take a pynte of Oyle fryid, 
an caste J^e Oynonys J'er-to, an let boyle alle to-gederys a gode whyle ; then 
caste J'er-to Safroune, powder Pepyr, Sugre, an Salt, an serue forth alle bote 
as tostips, 'as in J'e same maner for a Mawlard & of a capon, & hoc qiicsre^ 

.xxxiv. Char dewar don. — Take Pere "Wardonys, an sethe hem in'^yne or 
in fayre water ; J'an take an grynd in a morter, an drawe hem J'orwe a strayn- 
oure wyth-owte ony lycoure, an put hem in a potte w/tA Sugre and 
clarifiyd hony, an Canel y-now, an lete hem boyle ; J'an take it fro J'e fyre, 
an let kele, an caste J'er-to jolkys of Raw eyroun, tylle it be Jjikke ; & caste 
J'er-to pouder Gyngere y-now, an serue it in manere of Fysshe ;^ an jif if it be 
in lente, lef J'e jolkys of Eyroun, & lat J'e remenaunt boyle so longe tylle it 
be J'ikke, as J'ow it had be temp(?ryd wyth J^e jolkys, in J'e maner of charde 
quyncc ; an so serue hem in maner of Eys. 

.XXXV. Perys en Composte.— Take TVyne an Canel, & a gret dele of Whyte 
Sugre, an set it on J'e fyre & hete it bote, but let it nowt boyle, an draw it 
J'orwe a straynoure ; J^an take fayre Datys, an pyke owt J-e stonys, an leche hem 
alle J'inne, an caste J'er-to ; J'anne take Wardouys, an pare hem and sethe hem, 

' If. 11. - 'look for this ; see this,' generally y.r. 

^ For Ji>/s ; see Douce MS. No. 53, and the end of this recipe. A. also reaisjisehe. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 13 

an leche hem alle J^inne, & caste j^er-to in-to ]>e Syryppe : Jeanne take a lytii 
Sawndei-ys, and caste ]>eT-to, an sette it on ])e fyre ; an jif ]70w hast charde 
quynce, caste j^er-to in ]>e boyling, an loke J^at it stonde wyl with Sugre, an 
■vryl lyid wyth Canel, an caste Salt J;er-to, an let it boyle ; an J^an caste yt 
on a treen vessel, & lat it kele, & serue f [orth]. 

.xxxvj. Vele, kede, or henne in Bokenade. — Take Tele, Kyde, or Henne, 
an boyle hem in fayre Water, or ellys in freysshe brothe, an smyte hem in 
pecys, an pyke hem clene ; an )7an draw ]>e same brothe J^orwe a straynoure, 
an caste J'er-to Percely, Sawge, Tsope, Maces, Clowys, an let boyle tyl J-e 
flesshe be y-now; j^an sette it from j^e fyre, & a-lye it vp vritk raw jolkys of 
eyroun, & caste J^er-to ponder Gyngere, Teriows, Safroun, & Salt, & Jeanne 
seme it forth for a gode mete. 

'.xxxvij. Autre Vele en bokenade. — Take Yele, an Make it clene, and 
hakke it to gobettys, an sethe it ; an take fat brothe, an temper vp ]7ine 
Almaundys j^at ]>ou hast y-grounde, an lye it with Flowre of Eys, and do 
j^er-to gode powder of Gyngere, & Galyngale, Canel, Maces, Quybybis, and 
Oynonys y-mynsyd, & Eoysonys of coraunce, & coloure yt wyth Safroun, and 
put ]7er-to yin Yele, & serue f[orth]. 

•xxxviij. Storion in brothe. — Take fayre Freysshe Storgeoun, an choppe 
it in fayre water; ]janne take it fro )>e fyre, an strayne ]>e brothe j^orw a 
straynoure in-to a potte, an pyke clene ]>o Fysshe, an caste J^er-to powder 
Pepir, Clowes, Maces, Canel ; & Jeanne take fayre Brede, and stepe it in J?e 
same lycowre, & caste ]?er-to, an let boyle to-gederys, & caste J^en Safroun 
J^er-to, Gyngere, an Salt, & Yynegre, & ]7anne serue it forth ynne.^ 

.1x1.^ Oystres en grauey. — Take gode Mylke of Altaaundys, an drawe it 
wyth Wyne an gode Fysshe broj^e, an sette it on ]>e fyre, & let boyle ; & 
caste Jjer-to Clowes, Maces, Sugre an powder Gyngere, an a fewe parboylid 
Oynonys y-mynsyd; fan take fayre Oystrys, & parboyle hem in fayre Water, 
& caste hem ]7er-to, an lete hem boyle to-gederys ; & jianne serue hem foz-th. 

.xl. Oystrys in gr«uy bastard. — Take grete Oystiys, an schale hem ; an 
take ]>e water of ]7e Oystrys, & ale, an brede y-straynid, an J?e water also, 
an put it on a potte, an Gyngere, Sugre, Saffron, powder pepir, and Salt, 
an let it boyle wyl ; J^en put yn J^e Oystrys J^er-to, and dresse it forth. 

.xlj. Gelyne i?? dubbatte. — Take an Henne, and rost hure almoste y-now, 
an choppe hyre in fayre pecys, an caste her on a potte ; an caste J^er-to 
Freysshe broj^e, & half Wyne, Clowes, Maces, Pepir, Canelle, an stepe it with 
1 If. 11 bk. 2 jg_ in^Q j^T^Q dininjj-room. ^ i.e. i from xl. 



14 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS, 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 

fe Same broj'e, fayre brede & Vynegre : an whan it is y-now, serue it 
forth. 

\xlij. Conyng, Mawlard, in gely or in cyuey. — Take Couynge, Hen, 
or Mawlard, and roste hem alle-most y-now, or ellys choppe hem, an frye 
hem in fayre Freysshe grece ; an frye myncyd Oynenons, and caste alle in-to 
jie potte, & caste Jier-to fayre Freysshe brothe, an half Wyne, Maces, Clowes, 
Powder pepir, Canelle ; ]>an take fayre Brede, an wyth ])e same brothe stepe, 
an draw it ]>ovw a straynoure wyth vynegre; an whan it is wyl y-boylid, 
caste pe lycoure J^er to, & powder Gyngere, & Salt, & sesyn it vp an seme 
f[orth]. 

.xliij. Mortrewes of Fysshe. — Take Gornard or Congere, a-fore ])e navel 
wyth ]>e grece (for be-hynde ]>e navel he is hery^ of bonys), or Codlyng, 
J^e lyuer an j^e Spaune, an sethe it y-now in fayre "Water, and pyke owt ]>e 
bonys, and grynde ]>e fysshe in a Morter, an tem-per it vp wyth Almaunde 
Mylke, an caste ]7er-to gratyd brede ; Jjan take yt vp, an put it on a fayre 
potte, an let boyle ; ]>an caste j^er-to Sugre and Salt, an serue it forth as 
other Mortrewys. And loke J7at jjow caste Gyngere y-now a-boue. 

.xliiij. Mortrewys de Fleyssh. — Take Porke, an sej^e it wyl; Jeanne take 
it vppe and puUe a- way J>e Swerde,^ an pyke owt ]7e bonys, an hakke it and 
grynd it smal ; j^enne take ]>e sylf brothe, & tem-per it with ale ; ]>en. take 
fayre gratyd brede, & do J^er-to, an se]>e it, an coloure it with SafFroun, & lye 
it with jolkys of eyroun, & make it euen Salt, & caste ponder Gyngere, 
a-bouyn on J7e dysshe. 

.xlv. — For to make Blawnche Perrye. — Take J^e Whyte of the lekys, an 
sefe hem in a potte, an presse hem vp, & hacke he/» smal on a bord. An 
nym gode Almaunde Mylke, an a lytil of Eys, an do alle jjes to-gederys, an 
sej^e an stere it wyl, an do ]>eT-to Sugre or hony, an dresse it yn ; Jeanne 
take powderd Elys, an se]>e hem in fayre Water, and broyle hem, an kytte 
hom in long pecys. And ley .ij. or .iij. in a dysshe, and putte j^in* perrey 
in a-no]7er dysshe, ^an serue J^e to dysshys to-gederys as Venysou?? with 
Furmenty. 

.xlvj. Poumes. — Take fayre buttys of A^ele & he we hem, and grynd hem 
in a morter, & wyth ]>e jolkys of eyroun, & with ]>e whyte of eyroun ; 
an caste }eY-to powder Pepyr, Canel, Gyngere, Clowys powj^^r, & datys 
y-mynced, Safroun, & raysonys of Coraunce, an sethe in a panne wyth fayre 
water, an let it boyle ; fan wete ]>m handys in Eaw eyroun, j^an take it an 
1 leaf 12. - Hairy. ^ j^inj^ gkin. i xhine. » If. 12 bk. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 15 

rolle it in j^ia hondys, smaller or gretter, as ]70w wolt haue it, an caste it 
in-to boyling water, an let boyle y-now ; l^an putte it on a Spate round, 
an lete hem rosty ; J^en take flowre an jolkys of eyroun, an J^e whyte, an 
draw hem ]>oi'we a straynowre, an caste ]7er-to ponder Gyngere, an mako 
J^in^ bature grene v^ith ]>e lus of Percely, or Malwys, in tyme of jere Whete, 
an caste on jie pommys as ]>ej turne a-boute, & serue f[orth]. 

.xlvij. Cawdelle Ferry. — Take plkys of eyi-oun Raw, y-tryid fro the 
whyte ;• jmn take gode wyne, and warme it on j^e potte on a fayre Fyre, an 
caste ]7er-on plkys, and stere it wyl, but let it nowt boyle tylle it be ]7ikke ; 
and caste jjer-to Sugre, Safroun, & Salt, Maces, Gelofres, an Galyngale 
y-grounde smal, & flowre of Canelle; & whan ]>ovf dressyst yn, caste blanke 
ponder ))er-on. 

.xlviij. Tayloures. — Take a gode mylke of Almaundys y-draw ■with "Wyne 
an Water, an caste hym in-to a potte, and caste gret Roysouns of corauns. 
Also mencyd Datys, Clowes, Maces, Pouder Pepir, Canel, Safroun, & a gode 
dele Salt, & let boyle a whyle ; }an take it and ly^ it wyth Flowre of 
Rys, or ellys w/tA Brede y-gratyd, & caste |7er-to Sugre, & serue forth lyke 
Mortrewys, & caste pouder of Gyngere a-boue y-now. 

.xlix. Bryndons. — Take "Wyn, & putte in a potte, an clarifiyd hony, an 
Saunderys, pepir, Safroun, Clowes, Maces, & Quybibys, & mynced Datys, 
Pynys and Roysonys of Corauns, & a lytil Vynegre, ^& sethe it on ]>o fyre ; an 
sethe fygys in Wyne, & grynde hem, & draw hem j^orw a straynoure, & caste 
fer-to, an lete hem boyle alle to-gederys ; l^an take fayre flowre, Safroun, 
Sugre, & Fayre Water, ande make j7er-of cakys, and let hem be )7inne Inow ; 
J^an kytte hem y lyke lechyngys,* an caste hem in fayre Oyle, and fry hem 
a lytil whyle ; Jeanne take hem owt of j^e panne, an caste in-to a vesselle 
■with ]>e Syrippe, & so serue hem forth, \ie bryndonys an fe Sirippe, in a 
dysshe ; & let ]ie Sirippe be rennyng, & not to styf. 

.1. A potage on fysshday. — Take an Make a styf Poshote of Milke an 
Ale; Jjan take & draw J^e croddys J^orw a straynoure wyth^ whyte Swete 
Wyne, or ellys Rochelle Wyne, & make it sum-what rennyng an sum-what 
stondyng, & put Sugre a gode quantyte ]7er-to, or hony, but nowt to moche ; 
J^an hete it a lytil, & serue it forth al a-brode in Ipe dysshys ; an straw on 
Canel, & Gyngere, and jif [l^ou] haue Blank powder, straw on and kepe it 
a[s] whyte as yt may be, & jjan serue f [orth]. 

1 Thine. 2 Lye; allay. 3 leaf 13. 

* long thin strips. * MS. with wyth. 



16 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 

.Ij. Cawdelle de Almaunde. — Take Raw Almaundys, & grynde hem, an 
temper hem vp with gode ale, and a lytil Water, and draw it jjorw a strayn- 
oure in-to a fayre potte, & late it boyle a whyle : & caste j^er-to Safroun, 
Sugre, and Salt, & j^an serue it forth al hotte in maner of potage. 

.lij. Gyngaudre. — Take |»e Lyuerys of Codlyngys, Haddok, Elys, or J^e Hake 
hed, or Freysshe Mylweli hedys, J^e Pouches, & ]>g Lyuerys, an sethe hem 
in fayre Water ; J7an take hem vp on a fayre bord, & mynce smal ]?e pouches ; 
]7an take gode freysshe brothe of Samoun, or Turbut, or of Elys, & cast ]>e 
mynced pouches j^er-to, & ponder Pepyr, & let boyle ; J^an take ])e brothe, 
j^e pouches & ]>e lyuerys wer sodoun iu, m a stipe ^ or on fayre brede, & draw 
]>OYW a straynoure, & j^an mynce ]>e lyuer in fayre pecys ; & -whan j>e pouches 
haue boylid, an ]>e licoure, caste ]>e leuer )7er-to, an let boyle a whyle : j^an 
caste )7er-to j^e lyuerys, "Wyne, Venegre, Safroun, Salt, & late it boyle a whyle, 
and serue forth |iat rennyng. 

.Liij. Rapeye. — Take half Eygys & halfe Eoysonys, and boyle hem in 
"Wyne ; |ian bray hem in a morter, an draw wyth the same lycoure Jiorw a 
straynoure so )jikke J^at it be stondynge ; Jeanne take Roysons of Corauns, 
Pynys, Clowys, Maces, Sugre of Siprys, an caste J^er-to : j^an putte it on a 
potte ; ]'an take Saunderys a fewe, Pepir, Canel, an a litel Safroun ; an jif it 
be nojt stondyng, take [a] lytil flowre of Amidons, an draw it j'orw a strayn- 
woure, an caste Jjcr-to Salt, & serue forth stondyng. 

.Liiij. Rapeye. — Take almaundys, an draw a gode mylke J^er-of, and take 
Datys an mynce hem smal, an put j^er-on y-now ; take Raw Appelys, an pare 
hem and stampe hem, an drawe hem vppe with wyne, or with draf of 
Almaundys, or bojie ; ]?an caste ponder of Gyngere, Canel, Maces, Clowes, 
& caste ]7er-on Sugre y-now ; J^an take a quantyte of flowre of Rys, an 
]7rowe Jier-on, & make it chargeaunt, an coloure it wyth Safroun, an with 
Saunderys, an serue forth ; an strawe Canel a-boue. 

.Iv. luschelle of Fysshe. — Take fayre Frye of Pyke, and caste it raw on a 
morter, an caste J^er-to gratid brede, an bray hem as smale as )iow mayste ; 
& jif it be to stondyng, caste j^er-to Almaunde mylke, an bray hem to- 
gederys, an stere it to-gederys, & caste j^er-to a littel Safroun & Salt, an 
whyte Sugre, an putte al in a fayre Treen boUe, & toyle^ it to-gederys wyth 
)?in bond, an loke j^at it be nojt to chargeaunt, but as a man may pore it 
out of ]>e bolle ; and ]>aji take a Chafoure or a panne, an caste Jier-in fayre 
grauey of pyke or of Freysshe Samoun, y-di'aw ]>oyw a straynoure, & sette 
1 ? meaning. ^ jf, 13 ^t, 3 Xiville in Douce MS. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 17 

' it on ]>e fyre ; Ipanne take fayre Percely an Sawge, an caste ]7er-to, an lat it 
boyle, an caste jjer-to a lytil Safroim an Salt ; and wlian it hath y-boylid 
a whyle, store it faste, an caste j^e Stuff e f^er-to, an stere it euermore ; an 
"whan alia is oute of J^e bolle, caste a litil an a litil into ]>e chafoure, or 
j>e panne ; stere it soffter an sofftere, tylle it come to-gedere ; ]7an gader it 
to-gederys -with a ladelle or a Skyraoure, softe, tille it be round to-gedere ; 
Jeanne take it fro j^e fyre, an sctte ]>e vesselle on a fewe colys, an late it 
wexe styf be hys owne acord ; J^an serue forth. 

•Ivj. Charlette. — Take Mylke, an caste on a potte, w^tA Salt and Safroun 
y-now ; J^an hewe fayre buttys of Calf or of Porke, nojt to fatte, alle smal, an 
kaste Jjer-to ; J^an take Eyroun, j>e whyte an the jolke, & draw ]7orw a stray- 
noure ; an whan ]>e lycoure ys in boyling, caste )7er-to l^in Eyroun and Ale, 
& styre it tylle it Crodde ; J^an presse it a lytil with a platere, an serue 
forth ; sane, caste j^er-on broj^e of Beeff or of Capoun. 

.Ivij. Charlet a-forcyd ryally. — Take gode Mylke of Almaunde ; take 
tender Porke, an hew it smal, an bray it on a morter ; take eyroun, an di-aw 
J'orw a cloj^e ; temper vppe J'in flesshe jjer-with, an caste on ]?e potte ; take 
j^e mylke, an sette it ouer ]>e fyre ; sesyn it wyth Salt an Safroun caste j^er-on ; 
boyle it, an when yt komyth on by, a-lye it yvith wyne, an sette it a-doun ; 
take vppe an ley it on a clo]7e, an presse it a lytil ; ondo it a-jen, & caste 
]7er-on pouder Gyngere, Galyngale, Sugre y-now; menge it to-gederys, presse 
it a-ajen, sejie ^ j>e brojie wyl ; take styf Almaunde mylke y-temperyd with 
Freysshe brothe, & caste J^er-on Safltroun an Sugre y-now, an a lytil Salt, 
& boyle it, ])an take and set it owt ; leche now j^in mete, & ley J^er-of in a 
dysshe ; take ]>b sewe, & ley a-boue; take Maces & Sugre, & caste ]7er-on, & 
serue f[orth]. 

Mviij. Let lory. — Take Mylke, an sette it ouer ]>e fyre; take Salt & 
Safroun, an caste ]7er-to ; take Eyroun, ]7e pike an J^e Whyte y-strainyd a lyte,^ 
& caste it j^er-to ; whan ]>e Mylke his skaldyng bote, caste ]!e stuf ]7er-to, 
an Jienne stere yt tyll it crodde ; and jif ])o\i wolt haue it a-forsyd with 
lyjt coste, Take Mylke, & make it skaldyng bote, & caste ]7er-to Paw pikes of 
Eyroun, Sugre, ponder Gyngere, Clowes, Maces, an let not fully boyle ; & so 
bote, drcsse it forth, an ley it on ]>e crodde ; & jif ]>o\i wolt a-forse it in maner 
of charlet, do it in fasty??g dayis, & serue it forth. 

.lix. Furmenty -with purpaysse. — Make J^in Eurmenty in ]>e maner as I 
sayd be-fore, saue temper it vp with Almauuden, Mylke, & Sugre, & Safroun, 
Meaf 14. - ^ US. snje. Meaf 14 bk. * li/te = \me. 

2 



18 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 

]?an take Jjin Purpays as a Freysshe SamouB, & sethe it in fap'e Water; & 
■when he is I-sothe y-now, bawde it & leche it^ in fayre pecys, & serue wyth 
Purmenty in hote Water. 

.Ix. Trype of Turbut or of Codelynge. — Take j^e Mawes of Turbut, 
Haddok, or Codelyng, & pyke hem clene, & skrape hem, & Wasshem clene, 
and parboyle hem in gode Freysshe bro]je of Turbut or Samoun, or Pyke ; J'an 
kytte Percely smalle, & caste ]7er-to, & kytte ])e Mawys of a peny brede, & 
caste alle togederys in-to a potte, & let it boyle to-gederys ; & whan J7ey bin 
sojiin tendyr, caste j^er-to Safroun, & Salt, & Veryous, & pouder Gynger^, & 
serue f[orth]. 

•Ixj. A goos in hogepotte. — Take a Goos, & make hure clene, & hacke hyre 
to gobettys, & put yn a potte, & Water to, & sethe to-gederys ; ]>an take 
Pepir & Brennyd brede, or Blode y-boylyd, & giynd y-fere Gyngere & 
Galyngale & Comyn, & temper vppe 'with Ale, & putte it per-to ; & mynce 
Oynonys, & frye hem ^in freysshe grece, & do Jier-to a porcyon of Wyne. 

.Ixij. Conyngys in graueye. — Take Conyngys, & make hem clene, & 
hakke hem in gobettys, & sethe hem, oj^er larde hem & E-ost hetn ; & Jeanne 
hakke hem, & take Almaundys, & grynde hem, & temper hem vppe with gode 
Freysshe brothe of Flesshe, & coloure it wyth Safroun, & do ]7er-to a porcyon 
of flowre of Rys, & do ]7er-to J^en pouder Gyngere, Galyngale, Canel, Sugre, 
Clowys, Maces, & boyle it onys & se]>e it; ]>en take j^e Conyngys, iS: putte 
]7er-0D, & dresse it & serue it forth. 

.Ixiij. Harys in Cyueye. — Take Harys, & Fie hem, & make hem clene, an 
hacke hem in gobettys, & sethe hem in Water & Salt a lytylle ; J^an take 
Pepyr, an Safroun, an ISrede, y-grounde y-fere, & temper it wyth Ale ; ]7an 
take Oynonys & Percely, y-mynced smal to-gederys, & sethe hem be hem 
self, & afterward take & do ])er-to a porcyon of Vynegre, & dresse in. 

.Ixiiij. Capoun in consewe. — Take a Capoun, & make hem^ clene, & sethe 
hym in Water, percely, Sauereye & Salt ; & whan he his y-now, quarter hym ; 
Jjan grynde Almaundys, & temper vppe wyth J^at brothe of ]>e Capoun; or 
ellys take J^e jolkys of Eyroun, & make it chargeaunt, & strayne ]7e Almaundys 
& boyle it ; take Sugre a goode porcyouw, & do l^er-yn ; & when it ys y-boylid, 
ley ])e Capoun in j^e dysshe, & put ]7at Sew a-boue, & strawe j^er-vppe-on 
Sugre, & send it yn with alman). 

.Ixv. Hennys in bruette. — Take ])e hennys, & skalde hem, & ope hem, & 
■wasshe hem clene, & smyte hem to gobettys, & sethe hem wyth fayre porke ; 

1 leche it, repeated in MS. * leaf 15. ^ ?for hi/in; but see p. 19, No. Ixxij. 



COOKKRY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 19 

fan take Pepyr, Gyngere, & Brede, y-grounde y-fere, and temper it vppe 
■with ]>e same brothe, or ale draft, & coloure it with Safrouw, & se]>e it to- 
gederys, & serue forth. 

.Ixvj. Bruette Sareson. — Take Almaundys & draw a gode mylke '& flowre 
of Rys, & Porke & Brawen of Capoun y-sode, or Hennys smale y-grounde, & 
boyle it y-fere, & do in-to j^e mylke ; & J^an take pouder Gyngere, Sugre, & 
caste a-boue, an serue forth. 

.Ixvij. Bruet of Almaynne. — Take Almaundys, & draw a gode mylke J^er-of 
vrith Water ; take Capoun, Conyngys or Pertriches ; smyte j^e Capoun, or kede, 
or Chykonys, Conyngys : ])G Pertriche shal ben hoi : Jian blaunche ]>e Fleyssh, 
an caste on J^e mylke ; take larde & [mynce] it, & caste j^er-to ; take an 
mynce Oynonys & caste j^er-to y-nowe, do Clowes & smal Poysonys j^er-to ; 
caste hoi Safroun J^er-to, Jian do it to ]>e fyre, & stere it wyl ; whan ]'e 
fleysshe ys y-now, sette it on ])e fyre, an do J^er-to Sugre y-now ; take pouder 
Gyngere, Galyngale, Canel, & temper ]>e pouder wyth Vynegre, & caste 
J7er-to ; sesyn it with salt, & serue forth. 

.Ixviij. Bruet of Almaynne in lente. — Take fyne J^ikke Mylke of 
Almaundys ; take datys, an mynce hem smal ]7er-on ; take Sugre y-nowe, & 
straw J;er-on, & a lytil flowre of Rys ; sylt," & serue forth whyte, & loke jmt 
it be rennyng. 

.Ixix. Whyte Mortrewes. — Take Almaunde Mylke & Floure of Rys, & 
boyle it y-fere ; ]7enne take Capoun & Hennys, & sethe hem and bray hem as 
smal as ]>o\i may, & ly^ it with an Ey^ or to, & also a-lye it vppe with |»e 
mylke of Almaundys, & make hem chargeaunt as Mortrewes schuld be, & 
dresse hem forth, & caste Canel a-boue, or Gyngere. Blanke pouder is best. 

.Ixx. Fauntempere. — Take Almaunde Mylke, & Floure of Rys, Sugre, an 
gode pouj^er Gyngere, Galyngale, Canel, & gode Erbys, and stampe hem 
[&] grynd hem ]7orw a cloj^e, & caste j^er-to, & boyle yt, an a-lye it wyth 
jolkys of Eyroun, & make it more boyle ; Jian take Maces, Quybibes, & 
Geloferys, & caste J^er-to whan that ]?ou schalt dresse it yn. 

Mxxj. Murrey. — Take Porke an Yele, & sethe it, & grynd it, & draw it 
with Jie self brothe ; J^en take bred y-gratyd, & pouder of Gyngere & of 
Galyngale, & Hony, an caste J^er-to, & boyle it y-fere ; & make it chargeaunt, 
& coloure it with Saunderys & serue f[orth]. 

.Ixxij. Talbottys. — Take an Hare, an fle hem clene; j^en take )e blode, & 
Brede, an Spycery, an giynde y-fere, & draw it vppe with \ie brothe; 

1 K. 15 bk. » ? sprinkle. » Allay; mix. * Egg. ^ leaf 16. 



20 COOKERY BOOK, I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 

]->an take "Wyne or Ale, an cast J?er-to, & make gobettys, & Jeanne serue 
it forth. 

.Ixxiij. Conyngys in cyveye. — Take Conyngys, an fle hem, & sej'e hem, 
& make lyke fon woklyst make a sewe, saue alle-to-choppe hem, & caste 
Safroun & Iyer Jier-to, & Wyne. 

.Ixxiiij . Arbolettys. — Take Milke, Boter an Chese, & boyle in fere ; J>en 
take eyroun, & cast jier-to ; ]>an take Percely & Sawge & hacke it smal, 
& take ponder Gyngere & Galyngale, and caste it ];er-to, and J^an serue 
it forth. 

.Ixxv. Spyneye. — Take ]>e FlowJ^erys of Hawthorun ; boyle hem & presse 
hem, bray hem smal, temper hem vppe wyth Almaunde Milke, & lye it with 
Abyndouw ^ & Gratyd brede & flowre of Rys ; take Sugre y-now & put J^er-to, 
or Hony in defawte, & colowre it "svyth ]>e same ]>at ]>e flowrys ben, & serue 
f[orth]. 

.Ixxvj. Brasele. — Take Dace, Troutys, & Eoche, an roste hem on a 
gredelle ; j^an se|7e in Wyne, & caste Veryous per-to, powder of Gyngere, & 
Galyngale, & dresse it yn. 

.Ixxvij. Crem de Coloure. — Take an make j^icke Milke of Almaundys, & 
do it in a potte, & sethe it oner j^e fyre ; Jian take a fayre Canvas, an put it 
]'er-on, & late renne out ]>e Water ; jjen take ]ie halfyndele, & put it in a pot 
of er]>e ; |'en take the oj^er halfyndele, & parte it [in] to,^ & make ]ie half 
jelow, & do J'er-yn Wyn, Sugre, Clowes, Maces, powder of Canelle ; take 
\_hlank in MS.] & grynd a lytel in a morter ; ^j^an temper it vppe wyth 
almaunde mylke, & do eueiy of hem in a potte, an loke J'at it be y-like 
chargeaunt, & sette it ouer ]>e iyce, an boyle it a lytyl, an serue forth. 

.Ixxviij. Colouryd Sew with-owt fyre. — Take fowre pounde of Almaundys, 
& ley in Water ouer cue, an blanche hem, and on j^e morwe grynde hem ryth 
wyl, an draw J^er-of a Jiicke mylke; ]7an take Rys, and wasshem clene, an 
grynd hem wyl, & draw hem vppe wyth fe Mylke ]7orw a straynoure, an do 
it on a bolle, & parte it in fe vesselle, an do in al whyte Sugre, an euery 
vesselle Clowes, Maces, Quybibes, & pouder Canelle ; An lete ]>at on party 
ben whyte, \iat oj^er jelow, & j^at o]7er grene with Percely ; And ley of euery 
a leche* in a dysshe, an loke J^at Mylke be temperyd wyth wyne, an j^at* 
ojjer with Rede wyn. 

.Ixxix. Apple Muse. — Take Appelys an sethe hem, an Serge® hem ]?orwe 
a Sefe in-to a potte ; Jeanne take Almaunde Mylke & Hony, an caste j^er-to, an 

1 Amydon. ^ Two. » If. 16 bk. * a strip. = MS. >a«. « Sift, 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 21 

gratid Brede, Safroun, Saunderys, & Salt a lytil, & caste all in J^e potte & 
lete hem sethe ; & loke J^at ]>ou stere it wyl, & serue it forth, 

.Ixxx. Salomene. — Take gode Wyne, an gode pouder, & Brede y-ground, 
an sugre, an boyle it y-fere ; ]>an take Trowtys, Bochys, Perchys, oj^er Carpys, 
oj^er alle j^ese y-fere, an make hem clene, & aftere roste hem on a Grydelle ; 
J^an hewe hem in gobettys : whan J>ey ben y-sothe, fry hem in oyle a lytil, 
]>en caste in ]>e brwet ; and whan ]70u dressist it, take Maces, Clowes, 
Quybibes, Gelofiys, an cast a-boue, & serue forth. 

.Ixxxj. Blaundysorye. — Take Almaunde Mylke, an flowre of Rys, and 
brawn of Capounys or of hennys, & pouder Gyngere, & boyle it y-fere, & 
make it chargeaunt ; an whan j>o\i di-essest yn, nym Maces, Quybibes, & caste 
a-boue, & serue f[orth]. 

Mxxxij. Blamang. — Take Rys, an lese ^ hem clene, & wasshe hem clene ia 
flake Water, & j^an sethe hem in Watere, & aftyrward in Almaunde Mylke, 
& do ]7er-to Brawn of ]>e Capoun aftyrward in-to a-noj^er almaunde Mylke, 
an tese it smal sumdele w/tA a pyn, an euer as it wolt caste^ j^er-to, stere it 
wel ; nym Sugre and caste J^er-to, j^en make it chargeaunt ; ]>en take blawn- 
chyd Almaundys, an frye hem, an sette hem a-boue, whan ]>ou seruyst ynne ; 
& jif jjou wolt, ]>o\i myjte departe hem w/tA a Cawdelle Ferry y-wreten* 
before [No. xlvij. p. 15, and cxsxix. p 31], an J^an serue forth. 

.Ixxxiij. Vyaund de cyprys bastarde. — Take gode wyne, & Sugre next 
AftyrAvard, & caste to-gedere ; j^enne take whyte Gyngere, and Galyngale, & 
Canel fayre y-mynced ; Jien take luse of Percile & "Flowre of Bys, & Brawn 
of Capoun & of Chykonnys I-grounde, & caste )>er-to ; An coloure it wyth 
Safroun & Saundeiys, an a-ly it with pYkjs of Ep-oun, & make it chargeaunt ; 
an whan ]>ou dressest it yn, take Maces, Clowes, Quybibes, and straw a-boue, 
& serue forth. 

.Ixxxiiij. Vyaund de ciprys Eyalle. — Take ]>e to deP jolkys of eyron, 
]7e jjridde dele Hony ; take Clowes & kutte hem ; take Boysonys, tak brawn of 
Capoun, & hewe it smal ; caste al in a potte, & lat boyle & stere it wyl ; take 
wyne an boyle hem, & make a Syryppe ; take of ^ ]>e potte al a-bowte, ]>er as 
it hangyth, & late it boyle wyl tille it be as chargeaunt as it may ; take ]>m 
))ombe'' & pylt^ jjer-on, & jif it cleuey, let it boyle, & jif it nowt, sette it 
owt a-non in a clen bolle, an wete j^in bolle in ]>e Syrippe, and caste Jiin 
mete J^er-on ; & whan )70W dressist ]>i mete, leche it & caste j^in' Syryppe 
a-bouyn vppe-on, & serue forth. 

1 If. 17 {? BlamcaiffeT). ^ pick. ^ g-tick. * "Written. 

6 Two parts. e off, 7 Thumb. ^ put_ o Thy. 



22 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 

.Ixxxv. Gaylede. — Take Alraaunde Mylke & Flowre of Rys, & do ])er-to 
Sugre or Hony, & Powder Gyngere & Galyngale ; |ieu take figys, 'an kerue 
hem a-to, or Eoysonys y-hole,' or hard Wastel y-dicyd^ and coloure it with 
Saunderys, & sethe it & dresse hem yn. 

•Ixxxvj. Ry.s. — Take a porcyoun of Rys, & pyke hem clene, & sethe hem 
"welle, & late hem kele ; j^en take gode Mylke of Almaundys & do Jier-to, & 
sejje & stere hem wyl; & do Jjer-to Sugre an hony, & serue f[orth]. 

.Ixxxvij. Maumenye ryalle.— Take Vernage, oj^er strong Wyne of J;e 
beste ]7at a man may fynde, an putte it on a potte, & caste J^er-to a gode 
quantyte of ponder Canelle, & sette it on ])e fyre, an jif it an hete ; & Jeanne 
wrynge it soft jjorw a straynoure, jiat J^e draf go nowt owte, & put on a 
fayre potte, & pyke fayre newe pynys, & wasshe hem clene in Wyn, & caste 
a gode quantyte j^er-to, & take whyte Sugi-e J>er-to, as moche as J7e lycoure 
is, & caste Jier-to ; & draw a few Sawnderys wyth strong wyne ]7orwe a stray- 
noure, an caste J^er-to, & put alle on on'' potte, & caste J'er-to Clowys, a gode 
quantyte, & sette it on ]>e fyre, & jif it a boyle ; j^en take Almaundys, & 
draw hem w/tA mythty Wyne ; & at J^e firste boyle ly it vppe yvith Ale, & jif 
it a boyle, & sette it on fe fyre, and caste ]?er-to tesyd brawn, (of ^ defaute of 
Pertriche or Capoun,) a gode quantyte of tiyid Gyngere perase,^ & sesyn it 
vppe Wit/i pouder Gyngere, -& Salt & Safroun ; & jif it is to stondyng, a-ly it 
with Vernage or swete Wyne, & dresse it Plat yvith ]>e backe of a Sawcere in 
]>e Yernage or myjthty Wyne, & loke j^at J^ou haue Sugre y-nowe, & serue 
forth hote. 

.Ixxxviij . Mammenye bastarde. —Take a potelle of Clarifiyd Hony, & a 
pounde of Pynys, & a pounde of Eoysouns Coraunce, & [a] pound of Saunderys, 
& pouder canelle, & .ij. galouns of Wyne or Ale, & a pound of Pepir, & caste 
alle on a potte, & skym yt ; J^an take .iij. pounde of Amyndons, & a galon 
of Wyne, & a gode galon of Venegre, & let stepe vp to-gederys, & draw j^orw 
a straynoure ; ''an whan ]>e potte boylith, caste j^e lycoure J'er-to, an lat it be 
alle stondyng ; ]7an take pouder Gyngere, Salt & Safron, an sesyn it vppe, an 
serue alle flat on a dysshe, aH hote, an caste pouder Gyngere ]7er-on, an serue 
f[orth]. 

.Ixxxix. Elys in Gauncelye. — Take Elys, an fle hem, & sethe hem in 
Water, an caste a lytil Salt J^er-to ; Jian take Brede y-Skaldyd, an grynd it, 
an temper it with ]>e brothe an with Ale • j^an take Pepir, Gyngere, an 
Safroune, an grynd alle y-fere ; Jian neme Oynonys, an Percely, an boyle 

^ If. 17 bk. ^ Punstoned. ^ diced, cut into small squares. 

* In one. * j^, 6 ? nieaniug. '' If. 18. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 23 

it in a possenet wel, |7en caste alle to-gederys, an sethe y-fere & serue 
f[orth]. 

.Ixxxx. Hennys in Gauncelye. — Take Hennys, an roste hem ; take Mylke 
an Garleke, an grynd it, an do it in a panne, an hewe |?in hennys ]7er-on -with 
jolkys of ep-on, an coloure it -with Safrouw an Mylke, an serue forth. 

.Ixxxxj. Vyolette. — Nym Almaunde Mylke, an flowre of Rys, and ponder 
Gyngere, Galyngale, Pepir, Datis, Fygys, & Rasonys y-corven, an coloure it 
•with Safroun, an boyle it & make it chargeaunt ; an whan ])ou dressyste, take 
]>e flowres, an hew hem, an styre it };er-w»tA ; nyme ]>e braunchys -with ]>e 
flowres, an sette a-boue and serue it Forth. 

•Ixxxxij. Oystrys in bruette. — Take an schene' Oystrys, an kepe J^e water 
J^at cometh of hem, an strayne it, an put it in a potte, & Ale j^er-to, an a lytil 
brede ]7er-to ; put Gyngere, Canel, Ponder of Pepir j^er-to, Safroun an Salt ; 
an whan it is y-now al-moste, putte on Jiin Oystrys : loke J^at ]>ej ben wyl 
y-wasshe for'^ J^e schullys : & J7an serue forth. 

.Ixxxxiij. Walkys^ in bruette. — Take [Walkys] an sethe in Ale, fen 
pyke he/« clene ; j^an wasshem in Water an Salt be hem-self, & fyrst wyth 
Ale & Salt, an do so whole j^ey ben slepyr* ; J^en putte hem in ^ Vynegre, an 
ley Perceli a-boue, an serue ynne. 

.Ixxxxiiij. Tenche in bruette. — Take j^e Tenche, an sethe hem & roste 
hem, an grynde Pepir an Safroun, Bred and Ale, & tempore wyth j^e brothe, 
an boyle it ; Jien take jie Tenche y-rostyd, an ley hym on a chargeoure ; J7an 
ley on j^e sewe a-boue. 

.Ixxxxv. Tenche in cyueye. — Take a tenche, an skalde hym, roste hym, 
grynde Pepir an Safroun, Brede an Ale, & melle it to-gederys ; take Oynonys, 
hakke hem, an frye hem in Oyle, & do hem J^er-to, and messe hem forth. 

.Ixxxxvj. Tenche in Sawce. — Take a tenche whan he is y-sothe, and 
ley him on a dysshe ; take Percely & Oynonys, & mynce hem to-gederys ; 
take ponder Pepir, & Canelle, & straw J^er-on ; take Vynegre, an caste Safroun 
]7er-on, an coloure it, an serue it forth Jeanne alle colde. 

.Ixxxxvij. Chykonys in bruette. — Take [an] Sethe Chykonys, tS: smyte 
hem to gobettys ; J^an take Pepir, Gyngere, an Brede y-grounde, & temper it 
vppe wyth j^e self brothe, an with Ale ; an coloure it with Safrouw, an sethe 
an serue forth. 

.Ixxxxviij. Blamang<'r of Fyshe. — Take Rys, an sethe hem tylle they 
brekyn, & late hem kele ; j^an caste j^er-to mylke of Almaundys ; nym 

1 iov Scheie. * on account of. ^ "Whelks. * Slippery; slimy. * If. 18 bk. 



24 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 

Perche or Lopstere, & do j^er-to, & melle it ; J^an nym Sugre -wi'th pouder 
Gyngere, & caste j^er-to, & make it chargeaunt, and ]>an seme it forth. 

.xxxxix. Sardeynej. — Take Almaundys, & make a gode Mylke of Flowre 
of Eys, SafroiiD, Gyngere, Canelle, Maces, Quybibej ; grynd liem smal on a 
morter, & temper hem vppe yxith ])e Mylke ; ]>an take a fayre vesselle, & a 
fayre parte of Sugre, & boyle hem wyl, & rynsche j^in dysshe alle a-bowte 
WitA-ynne with Sugre or oyle, an ]7an seme forth. 

^C. Roseye. — Take Almaunde Mylke an flowre of Eys, & Sugre, an 
Safroun, an boyle hem y-fere ; jjan take Red Eosys, an grynd fayre in a 
morter -with Almaunde mylke ; J-an take Loches, an toyle^ hem [with] 
Flowre, an frye hem, & ley hem in dysshys ; J^an take gode pouder, and 
do in ])e Sewe, & caste l^e Sewe a-bouyn J^e lochys, & serue forth. 

.Cj. Eyron en poche. — Take Eyroun, breke hem, an sethe hem in hot 
"Water ; ]7an take hem Vppe as hole as ]iou may ; ])an take flowre, an melle 
with Mylke, & caste J^er-to Sugre or Hony, & a lytel pouder Gyngere, an 
boyle alle y-fere, & coloure with Safrown ; an ley |iin Eyroun in dysshys, 
& caste ]7e Sewe a-boue, & caste on pouder y-now. Blawnche pouder 
ys best. 

.Cij. Muskelys in bruette. — Take J^e Muskelys whan J^ey ben y-sothe, & 
pyke owt j^e Muskele of ]>e schulle, & pyke a-way ye here : jian take brede, 
an pepir & Safroun y-grounde, & temper it vp with ]>e brothe ; & jif j^ou 
wolt, a-lye it with Wyne or with Ale, & serue f [orth]. 

.Ciij. Fygeye. — Take Eygys, an sethe hem tylle J^ey ben neysshe, jtan bray 
hem tylle ]>ej ben smal ; ];enne take hem vppe an putte hem in a potte, & Ale 
J>er-to ; j^an take Bred y-gratyd, an Pynej hole, & caste ]7er-to, & let boyle 
wyl ; & atte ])e dressoure, caste on pouder Canel y-now, & serue forth : & jif 
J70W wolt coloz<r yt in .iij. maners, ]>on myjt, with Saunderys, Safroun, & of 
hym-self, and ley on pouder y-now, & serue f[orth]. 

.Ciiij. Bolas. — Take fayre Bolasse, wasshe hem clone, & in "Wyne boyle 
hem j^at j^ey be but skaldyd bywese, & boyle hem alle to pomppe,^ & draw 
hem ]7orw a straynoure, & a-lye hem with flowre of Eys, & make it 
chargea?mt, & do it to J^e fyre, & boyl it; take it of, & do J^er-to whyte 
Sugre. gyngere, Clowys, Maces, Canelle, & stere it wyl to-gederys : Jeanne 
take gode perys, ^& sethe hem wel with fe Stalke, & sette hem to kele, & 
pare hem clene, and pyke owt j^e corys ; ]7an take datis, & wasshe hem clone, 
& pyke owt ]>e Stonys, & fylle hem fulle of blaunche poudere : ]7an take J^e 
1 leaf 19. 2 Rub, cover. ^ Pulp. * If. 19 bk. 



COOKERY BOOK. 1. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DWERS. 25 

Stalke of J-e Perys, take fe Bolas, & ley .iij. lechys in a dysshe, & sette )ia 
perys J^er-yn. 

.Cv. Lorey de Boolas. — Take Bolas, & se]7e hem a lytil, & draw hem 
)orw a strayuoure, & caste hem in a broj^e ; & do j^er-to Brcde y-gratyd, & 
boyle y-fere, & jolkys of eyroiin y-swengyd, & a-lyid ; take Canel, and 
Galyngale, Skemyd hony, & do J^er-to, & sethe wyl, & serue forth. 

.Cvj. Rapeye of Fleysshe. — Take lene Porke y-sode & y-grounde smalle, & 
tempere it vppe w/t/( )e self broj^e, & do it in a potte, an caste J^er-to a lytil 
honye, & boyle it tyl it be chargeaunt ; & a-lye it wyth pYkjs of Eyroun, & 
coloure it with Saunderys, & dresse forth, and ponder Marchaunt. 

.Cvij. Sore Sengle. — Take Elys or Gurnard, & parte hem half in Wyne, & 
half in watere, in-to a potte ; take Percely and Oynouys & hewe hem smalle ; 
take Clowes or Maces & caste J^er-on ; take Safroun, & caste ]?er-to, & sette on 
]>6 fyre, & let boyle tylle it be y-now ; ]>en sette it a-doun ; take poudere 
Gyngere, Canelle, Galyngale, & temper it vppe -with Wyne, & cast on ]>e 
potte & serue forth. 

.Cviij. Prymerose. — Take oj^er half-pound of Flowre of Pys, .iij. pound of 
Almanndys, half an vnce of hony & Safrouui?, & take ]>e flowre of ]ie Pryme- 
rose, & grynd hem, and tempi?/- hem vppe with Mylke of ]>e Almanndys, & 
do pouder Gyngere ]>er-on : boyle it, & plante J^in skluce ^ with Rosys, & 
serue f[orth]. 

.Cix. Gelye de chare. — Take caluys fete, & skalde hem in fayre water, an 
make hem alle ]>g whyte. Also take howhys of ^Vele, & ley hem on water to 
soke out ]>e blode ; ]>en take hem vppe, an lay hem on a fayre lynen cloj^e, 
& lat ]>e water rennyn out of [hem] ; J>an Skore ^ a potte, & putte J^e Fete & 
fe Howhys J-er-on ; \>an take "Whyte Wyne 'pat wolle hold coloure, & cast 
]7er-to a porcyon, an non ojier lycoure, )iat j^e Fleysshe be ouer-wewyd* with- 
alle, & sette it on J^e fyre, & boyle it, & Skerae it clene ; an whan it is tendyr 
& boyHd y-now, take vppe j^e Fleyshe in-to a fayre boUe, & sane ]>e lycoure 
wyl ; & loke ]7at J^ow haue fayre sydys of Pyggys, & fayre smal Chykenys wyl 
& clene skladdyd & drawe, & lat pe leggys an l^e fete on, an waysshe hem 
in fayre water, & caste hem in ]>e fyrste brothe, an sethe it a-jen ouer j^e 
fyre, & skerae it clene ; lat a man euermore kepe it, an blow of j^c grauy. 
An in cas ]>e lycoure wast * a- way, caste more of pe same wyne j^er-to, & put 
J^in honde j^er-on ; & jif J^in bond waxe clammy, it is a syne of godeuesse, 

^ viscous compound ? - leaf 20. ^ Scour. 

* See other Cookery, No. 174, u-ese. * "Waste. 



26 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYYERS. 

an let not ]>e Fleyshe be moche sothe/ ]7at it may here kyttyng; J^an take it 
vppe, & ley it on a fayre clojje, & sette owt ]>e lycoure fro j^e fyre, & put a 
few colys vnder-netlie ]>e vesselle J^at ])e lycoure is yn ; J^an take pouder of 
Pepir, a gode quantyte, & Safron, ^at it haue a fayre Laumbere coloure, & a 
gode quantyte of Vynegre, & loke fat it be sauery [of] Salt & of Yynegre, 
fayre of coloure of Safroun, & putte it on fayre lynen cloj^e, & sette it vnder- 
nethe a fayre pewter dysshe, & lat it renne ]?orw ]>e cloj^e so ofte tylle it 
renne clere : kytte fayre Rybbys of ]>e syde of ]>e Pygge, & lay ham on a 
dysshe, an pulle of ])e lemys of ]7e Chykenys, eche fro oj^er, & do a- way j^e 
Skynne, & ley sum in a dysshe fayre y-chowchyd,^ & pore ym ^ gelye ))er-on, 
& lay Almaundys J^er-on, an Clowys, & paryd Gyngere, & serue forth. 

^Cx. Gelye de Fysshe. — Take newe Pykys, an draw hem, and smyte hem 
to pecys, & sethe in j^e same lycoure J^at j'ou doste Gelye of Fleysshe ; an whan 
Jiey ben y-now, take Perchys and Tenchys, & sej^e ; & Elys, an kutte hem in 
fayre pecys, and waysshe hem, & putte hem in J>e same lycoure, & loke j^ine 
lycoure be styf y-now ; & jif it wolle notte cacche,* take Soundys of watteryd 
Stokkefysshe, or ellys Skynnys, or Plays, an caste j7er-to, & sethe ouer ])e 
fyre, & skeme it wyl ; & when it ys y-now, let nowt ]>e Pysshe broke ; J^enne 
take ]>e lycoure fro ]>e fyre, & do as ]70u dedyst be ^ J-at olper Gelye, saue, 
pylle ]>e Fysshe, & ley j^er-off in dysshis, ]?at is, perche & suche ; and Plowre 
hem, & serue forthe. 

•Cxj. Tannye. — Take almaunde Mylke, & Sugre, an powdere Gyngere, & of 
Galyngale, & of Canelle, and Rede Wyne, & boyle y-fere : & )7at is gode tannye. 

.Cxij. Sturmye. — Take gode mylke of Almaundys y-drawe w«tA wyne ; 

take porke an hew it Smalle ; do it on a Morter, and grynde it ryth sraalle ; 

yen caste it in ]>e same Mylke, & caste it on a potte ; take Sawnderys & flowre 

of Rys; melle hem with ]>e Mylke, draw hem Jjorw a straynoure, & caste it 

[in] a clene pot, loke ]>at it be chargeaunt y-now ; take Sugre, an putte J;er-on, 

& Hony ; do it ouer fe fyre, & let it sethe a gret whyle ; sture yt wyl ; take 

Eyroun hardy-soj^e, take ]>e whyte, & hew hem as smalle as ]70W myjth, caste 

hem on j^e potte ; take Safroune & caste ]7er-to, with powder Gyngere, 

Canelle, Galyngale, Clowys, & loke J^at ]>ou. haue powder y-now ; caste it in 

])e potte, temper it with Vynegre ; take Salt & do j^er-to, menge hem wylle 

to-gederys. Make a Siryppe; fe .ij. dele schalle ben wyne, & J^e .ij. dele 

Sugre or hony ; boyle it & store it, & Skeme it clene ; ]7er-on wete "j^in 

dyssches, & serue forth. 

1 boiled. 2 T-couched ; laid. ^ Thine. « 3 If. 20 bk. 

* stick; see other Cookery, No. 174. ® By, with. '' leaf 21. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 27 

•Cxiij. Bruette saake. — Take Capoun, skalde hem, draw hem, smyte hem 
to gobettys, Waysshe hem, do hem in a potte ; jjenne caste owt j^e potte, 
waysshe hem a-jen on j^e potte, & caste ]7er-to half wyne half Bro]?e ; take 
Percely, Isope, "Waysshe hem, & hew hem smal, & putte on ]>e potte ]>er fe 
Fleysshe is ; caste ]7er-to Clowys, quybibes, Maces, Datys y-tallyd, hoi 
Safroune ; do it ouer ]>e fyre ; take Canelle, Gyngere, tempore J^in powajes 
-with wyne ; caste in-to j^e potte Salt )7er-to, hele ^ it, & whan it is y-now, 
serue it forth. 

.Cxiiij. Taylej. — Take a chargeaunt Mylke of Almaundys, an draw with 
wyne^; take Fygys & Eoysonys a gode porcyon, to make it chargeaunt, waysshe 
hem clene, & caste hem on a morter, grynd hem as small as ])ou. myjt, temjier 
hem vppe yvith ]>m ^ Mylke, draw hem j7orw a straynoure, also chargeauntly 
as ]>ou myjth ; caste it in a clene potte, do it to j^e fyre ; take Datys y-taylid 
a-long, & do j^er-to ; take Flowre of Kys, & draw it j7orw a straynoure, and 
caste )7er-to, & lat it boyle tylle it be chargeaunt ; sette it on ]^e fyre ; take 
ponder Gyngere & Canelle, Galyngale ; temper -with Vynegre, & caste J^er-to 
Sugre, or hony ; caste Jier-to, sesyn it vppe 'with Salt, & serue forth. 

.Cxv. Quynade. — Take Quynces, & pare hem clene, caste hem on a potte, & 
caste ]>eT-to water of Rosys ; do it ouer ]>e fyre, & hele* it faste, & let it boyle 
a gode whyle tyl j^ey ben neysshe ; & jif jiej wol not ben neysshe, bray hem 
in a Morter smal, draw hem )7orw a straynoure ; take gode Mylke of Almawdys, 
& caste in a potte & boyle it ; take whyte Wyne & Vynegre, an caste ]7er-to 
]>e Mylke, & let it stonde a whyle ; take j^an a clene canvas, & caste jje mylke 
vppe-on), & w/t/i a platere ^stryke it of ]>e clo])e, & caste it on ]>e potte ; gedyr 
vppe J'e quynces, & caste to ]>e creme, & do it ouer ]>e fyre, & lat boyle ; take 
a porcyon of ponder of Clowys, of Gyngere, of Graynys of Perys, of Euery 
a porcyon ; take Sugre y-now, with Salt, & a party of Safroun, & alle menge 
to-gederys ; & when ]>o\.i dressyst forth, plante it with foyle of Syluer. 

.Cxvj. Blaunche de ferry. — Take Almaundys, an draw ];er-of an Char- 
geaunt Mylke ; take Caponys & sethe hem ; & whan ]>ej ben y-now, take hem 
vppe, & ley hem on a fayre bord, & strype of J^e Skyn, & draw out ]>e Brawn 
& hew hem smal ; do hem on a Morter, & grynd hem smal ; caste on a potte, 
& fayre whyte Salt, & boyle hem ; & whan ]>ey bey boylid, sette it out, & 
caste on whyte "Wyne or Venegre, & make it quayle" ; take a clene cloj^e and 
lete it be tryid a-brode, & stryke it wyl vnder-nethe alle J^e whyle J^at j^er 
wol aujt out ]>er-oi; ]?an caste Blaunche powder J;er-on, or pouder Gyngere 

1 Cover. 2 MS. caste in to ]>e potte, struck through after wyne. 

3 Thine. < Cover. ^ if. 21 bk. « Curdle. 



28 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVEKS. 

y-mellyd -with Sugre ; stryke it clene, take a nevre Er]7en potte, ojjer a clene 
bolle, & caste ])in mete J^er-on, j^er plantyng Anys in comfyte. 

.Cxvij. Sauge. — Take Gyngere, Galyngale, Clowys, & grynde in a morter ; 
Jian take an handfulle of Sawge, & do Jier-to, grynd "wyl to-gederys ; take 
Eyroun, & sethe hem harde, nym j^e jolkys, grynde liem 'with ]>e Sawge & 
With Jje spycis, & temper it vppe w/tA Venegre or eysel, or w/tA Alegere ; 
take ]>e whyte of j^e Eyro?/n, & sethe hem, & mynce hem smal, & caste J^er-to ; 
when it is y-temperyd, take Brawn of hennys or Fyssches, & ley on dysschys, 
& caste ]>m mete a-boue. 

.Cxviij. Murreye. — TakeMolberys, & wryng hem ]7orwe a clo^e ; nym Vele, 
hew it, sethe it, grynd it smal, & caste Jier-to ; nym gode Spycery, Sugre, & 
caste }7er-to ; take Wastylbrede y-gratyd, ^and jolkys of Eyroun, & lye it vppe 
l^ier-wtth, & caste gode pouder a-boue y-now, & }ian serue forth. 

.Cxix. Vyaunde de cyprys in lente. — Take gode J^ikke mylke of 
Almaundys, & do it on a potte ; & nyme ]ie F[le]ysshe^ of gode Crabby s, & gode 
Samou?*, & bray it smal, & tempere yt vppe w/tA ]?e forsayd mylke ; boyle it, 
an lye it vfith floure of Rys or Amyndou?^, an make it chargeaunt ; Avhen it ys 
y-boylid, do }7er-to whyte Sugre, a gode quantyte of whyte Vernage Pime^ ^ 
Vfith J7e wyne, Pome-garnade. "VVhan it is y-dressyd, straw a-boue j^e grayne 
of Pome-garnade. 

.Cxx. "Whyte Mortrewys of Porke. — Take lenePorke, & boyle it ; blaunche 
Almandys, & grynd hem, & terape/- vppe w/tA ])e brothe of ]>e porke, & lye 
hem vppe -with ]>e Flowre of Eys, an lete boyle to-gederys, but loke j^at ]>e 
porke be smal grounde y-now ; caste J-er-to Myncyd Almaundys y-fryid in 
freysshe grece ; J^en sesyn hem vppe alle flatte in a dysshe ; j^row j^er-to Sugre 
y-now & Salt; & atte J^e dressoure, strawe ]>eY-on pouder Gyngere y-mellyd 
"with Almaundys. 

.Cxxj. Rapeye. — Take Fygys &Eoysonys, & grynd hem in a Mortere, & 
tempere hem vppe with Almaunde Mylke, & draw hem ])oyw a clo]7e ; jjen 
take gode Spycys, & caste |7er-to ; take Perys, se]>e hem & pare hem, & do 
a-way ]>e core, & bray hem in a mortere, & caste to j^e oj>er ; take gode Wyne, 
& Blake Sugre or Hony, & caste J^er-to a lytil, & let it boyle in fere; & whan 
Jjow dressyst yn, take Maces & Clowes, Quybibys & Graynys, & caste a-boue. 

.Cxxij. A rede Morreye. — Take Molberys, and wrynge a gode hepe of hem 
]7orw a clojjo ; nym Yele, hew it & grynd it smal, & caste l^er-to ; nym gode 
Spycery [an] Sugre, & caste j^er-Ho ; take Wastilbrede & grate it, & jolkys 
1 leaf 22. - MS. Fysshe (? intentionally). ^ ? meaning. * If. 22 bk. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 29 

of Eyroun, & lye it vppe fer-^vith, & caste gode pouder of Spycery J-er-an. 
a-boiien ; & j^an serue it forth. 

•Cxxiij. Strawberye. — Take Strawberys, & waysshe hem in tyme of jere 
in gode red wyne ; J^an strayne j^orwe a cloj^e, & do hem in a potte w/tA gode 
Almaunde mylke, a-lay it 'with Amyndo?m o]7er yvith ]>e flowre of Rys, & make 
it chargeaunt and lat it boyle, and do ]?erin lloysonys of coraunce, Safrouu, 
Pepir, Sugre grete plente, pouder Gyngere, Canel, Galyngale ; poynte it with 
Yynegre, & a lytil whyte grece put ]7er-to ; coloure it with Alkenade, & droppe 
it a-bowte, plante it with ])e graynys of Pome-garnad, & Jian serue it forth. 

.Cxxiiij. Chyryoun. — Take Chyryis/ & pike out ]>e stonys, waysshe hem 
clene in wyne, J^an wryng hem I'orw a cloj'e, & do it on a potte, & do ]>eT-to 
whyte grece a quantyte, & a partye of Floure of Rys, & make it chargeaunt ; 
do Jier-to hwyte Hony or Sugre, poynte it with Venegre ; A-force it with 
stronge pouder of Canelle & of Galyngale, & a-lye it with a grete porcyoun 
of plkys of Eyrouii) ; coloure it with Safroun or Saunderys ; & whan ])o\i 
seruyste in, plante it with Chyrio?m, & serue f[orthJ. 

.Cxxv. Vyolette. — Take Flourys of Vyolet, boyle hem, presse hem, bray 
hem smal, temper hem vppe w?tA Almaunde mylke, or gode Co we Mylke, a-lye it 
with Amyndou?? or Flowre of Rys ; take Sugre y-now, an putte j^er-to, or hony 
in defaute ; coloure it with J-e same Jiat fe flowrys be on y-peywtid a-boue. 

.Cxxvj. £.ede Kose. — Take fe same, saue a-lye it with ]>e plkys of eyrouw, 
& for]7er-more as vyolet. 

.Cxxvij. Prymerose. — Hyjth as vyolette. 

.Cxxviij. Flowrys of hawj'orn.- — In J^e same maner as vyolet. 

^Cxxix. A potage on a Fysdaye. — Take an sethe an .ij. or .iij. Applys 
y-p[«r]ede,* & strayne hem ]>otw a straynoure, & Flowre of Rys ])ev-with ; ]>an 
take ]>at whyte Wyne, & strayne it w?'t/«-alle ; ]7an loke ]7at it be nowt y-bounde 
to moche with ]>e Floure of Rys, J^an jif it a-boyle ; ]>en caste ]>eT-to Saunderys & 
Safroun, & loke it be marbylle;^ Jian take Roysonys of corauns, & caste J^er-on, 
& Almaundys y-schredyd ]7er-on y-nowe ; & mynce Datys Smale, & caste 
]7er-on, & a lytil Hony to make it dowcet, or ellys Sugre ; ]7enne caste j?er-to 
Maces & Clowys, Pepir, Canelle, Gyngere, & ojier spycery y-now ; ]>en take 
Perys, & sethe hem a lytil ; ]>en reke hem on fe colys tyl ]>ej ben tendyr ; j^au 
smale schrede hem rounde ; & a lytil or ])o\i serue it in, J^row hem on J^e 
potage, & so serue hem in almost flatte, nojt Fullyche. 

.Cxxx. Brewes in Lentyn. — Take a fewe Fygys, & se]7e hem & draw hem 

1 MS. Chyr>is. ^ jxS. Hawiom. ^ leaf 23; * MS. i/-pede. * i.e. variegated. 



30 COOKERY BOOK. I, HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 

]>OTw a straynoure with "Wyne ; J^en putte J^er-to a lytil Hony ; j^en toste 
Brede, & Salte it ; & so broune & rennyng as Urwes, serue hem in, & straw 
pouder Canelle y-now j^er-on atte J^e dressoiire, & serue it forth. 

.Cxxxj. A potage colde. — Take Wyne, & drawe a gode j^ikke Milke of 
Almaundys with Wyne, jif ]>ou mayste ; fen putte yt on a potte, caste J^er-to 
Pouder Canelle & Gyngere & SafFrou?? ; ]>en lat it boyle, & do it on a cloj^e ; & 
jif ]>on wolt, late hym ben in dyuers colourys, }jat on whyte with-owte 
Spyces, & |iat ojier jelow with Spicerye. 

.Cxxxij. Sauke' Sarsoun. — Take Almaundys, & blaunche hem, & frye 
hem in oyle oj^er in grece, J^an bray hem in a Mortere, & tempere hem with 
gode Almaunde mylke, & gode "Wyne, & ]>en ])e |»rydde ■pertj schal ben 
Sugre; & ^if it be nojt J^ikke y-nowe, a-lye it with Alkenade, & Florche^ it 
a-bouyn with Pome-garned, ^& messe it ; serue it forth. 

.Cxxxiij. Rapeye. — Take Pykys or Tenchys, ojier freysshe Fysshe, & frye 
it in Oyle ; j^en nyme crustys of whyte brede, & Raysonys & Canelle, an bray 
it wyl in a mortere, & temper it vppe wyth gode wyne ; J^en coloure it with 
Canelle, or a litil Safro^^n : J^an boyle it, & caste in hoi Clowys & Quybibes, 
& do J>e Fysshe in a dysshe, & J^an serue forth. 

.Cxxxiiij. Apple Moyle. — Nym Rys, an bray hem wyl, & temper hem with 
Almaunde mylke, & boyle it ; & take Applys, & pare hem, an smal screde 
hem in mossellys ; j^row on sugre y-now, & coloure it with Safrown, & caste 
]7er-to gode pouder, & serue f [orth]. 

.Cxxxv. Applade Ryalle. — Take Applys, & sej^e hem tylle j^ey ben tendyr, 
& ]7an lat hem kele ; ])en draw hem J^orw a straynowr ; & on flesshe day caste 
J>er-to gode fatte broj^e of freysshe beef, an whyte grece, & Sugre, & 
Safroun, & gode pouder ; «& in a Fysshe day, take Almaunde mylke, & oyle 
of Olyff, & draw J^er-vppe with-al a gode pouder, & serue forth. An for 
nede, draw it vppe with Wyne, & a lytil hony put ]>er-to for to make it jian 
dowcet; & serue it forth. 

.Cxxxvj. A potage of Eoysons. — Take Raysonys, & do a- way J>e kyrnellys ; 
& take a part of Applys, & do a-way ]!e corys, & ]>e pare,* & bray hem in a 
mortere, & temper hem with Almawde Mylke, & melle hem with flowre of 
Rys, j^at it be clene chargeaunt, & sttaw vppe-on pouder of Galyngale & of 
Gyngere, & serue it forth. 

.Cxxxvij. Chykons in dropeye. — They schul ben fayre y-boylid in fayre 
watere tyl j^ey ben y-now, j^en take hem fyrst, & choppe hem smal : & whan 
1 Sauce. 2 Flourish ; garnish. 3 If. 23 bk. * ? peel. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HAKLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 31 

]>eY ben y-now, tempere vppe a gode Almaunde mylke of ])e same, & vfith 
Wyne : a-lye it -with Amyndon, o]>er yvith ^floure of Rys : j^en take fayre 
freysshe grace, & putte Alkenade ]>er-to, & gader his coloure J^er-of, & ley J^e 
quartcrys .v. or .tJ. in a dysshe, as it wole come a-bowte, & Salt it atte j^e 
dressoure, sprynge -with a fej^er or .ij. here & ]>ere a-bowte ]>e dysshe; & jif 
]joii lyst, put }7er-on ponder of Gyngere, but nojt a-boue, but in ])e potage, 
& ]7an serue forth. 

.Cxxxviij. Pumpes. — Take an sethe a gode gobet of Porke, & nojt to lene, 
as teudyr as ]>on may ; pan take hem vppe & choppe hem as smal as ]>oxl 
may ; Jian take clowes & Maces, & choppe forth witA-alle, & Also choppe forth 
■with Roysonys of coraunce ; J^an take hem & rolle hem as round as j^ou may, 
lyke to smale pelettys, a .ij. inches a-bowte, J^an ley hem on a dysshe be hem 
selue ; ])an make a gode Almaunde mylke, & a lye it with flours of Tlys, & lat 
it boyle wyl, biit loke )>at it be clcne rennyng; & at }e dressoure, ley 
.V. pompys in a dysshe, & pore J^in potage ]7er-on. An jif ])ou wolt, sette on 
euerj pompe a flos campy - flo?<r, & a-boue straw on Sugre y-now, & ]\[aces : 
& serue hem forth. And sum men make j^e pellettys of vele or Beeff, but 
porke ys beste & fayrest. 

.Cxxxix. Caudel Ferry departyd with a blamanger. — Take Fleysshe of 
Capoun, or of Porke, & hakke hem smal, & do it in a mortere an bray it wyl, 
& temper it vppe ^v^th capoun brojje ]>at it be wyl chargeaunt ; J^an nym 
mylke of Almaundys, take jolkys of eyroun), & Safroun, & melle hem 
to-gederys J^at it be ^elow, & do ]7er-to ponder Canelle, & styke Jier-on Clowis, 
Maces, & Quybibis, & serue f[orth]. 

•Cxi. Egredouncye. — Take Porke or Beef, whej^er ]>e lykey, & leche it 
|iinne Jjwerte^; J^en broyle it broun) a lit el, & j^en mynce it lyke Yenyson ; 
choppe it in sewe, J^en caste it in ^a potte & do J^er-to Freyssh brothe; take 
Erbis, Oynonys, Percely & Sawge, & o]ier gode erbis, J'en lye it vppe with 
Brede ; take Pepir & Safroun, pouder Canel, Vynegre, or Eysel "Wyne, Broj^e 
an Salt, & let jet* boyle to-gederys, tylle J^cy ben y-now, & j^an serue it 
forth renny[?^]g. 

.Cxlj. Noteye. — Take a gret porcyoMn of Haselle leuys, & grynd in a morter 
as smal as ]>ou may, whyl J^at J^ey ben pnge ; take ]7an, & draw vppe a j^rift 
Mylke of Almaundys y-blaunchyd, & temper it -with Freysshe bro]7e ; wryng 
out clene }7e Ins of j^e leuys ; take Fleysshe of Porke or of Capo?m, & grynd it 
smal, & temper it vppe with J'e mylke, & caste it in a potte, & ]>e Ins ]jer-to, 
1 leaf 24. ^ p field-flower. ' MS. i/werte. * If. 24 bk. * It. 



32 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVERS. 

do it ouer ]>e fyre & late it boyle ; take flour of Rys, & a-lye it ; take & caste 
Sugre y-now ]>ef-to, & Vynegre a quantyte, & pouder Gyngere, & Safroii^ it 
■wel, & Salt ; take smal notys, & breke hem ; take j>e kyrnellys, & make hem 
"svhyte, & frye hem vppe in grece ; plante ])cr-^ith ]?iii mete & serue forth. 

.Cxlij. Vyande Ryall^. — Nyme gode Mylke of Almaundys, & do it in a 
potte, & sette it oner jie fyre, & styre it tyl it boyle almost ; j^en take flour 
of Rys & of fe selue Mylke, an draw it )7or\ve a straynoure, & so ]7er-w?t/i 
a-lye it tylle it be Chargeaunte, & stere it faste ]?at it crouste nojt ; jren take 
l^gap in MS.'] owte of grece, & caste it J^orw a Skymoure, & colowr ]>at Sewe 
]>er-with ; J-an take Sugre in confyte, & caste in y-now ; sesyn it -with Salt 
& ley ]>ve lechys in a dysshe, & caste Aneys in comfyte j^er-on, & Jeanne serue 
forth. 

.Cxliij. Lampreys in galentyn. — Take Brede, & stepe it -with Wyne & 
Vynegre, & caste j^^r-to Canelle, & draw it ]7orw a straynoure, and do it in a 
potte, & caste pepir 'jfer-to ; Jian take Smale Oynonys, mynce hem, frye hem in 
Oyle, & caste Jier-to a fewe Saunderys, ^an let hem boyle a lytil ; ])eu take J^e 
lampronys & skalde hem w/t/i [^ff/? in ITS.'] & hot waters, & sethe & boyle 
hem in a dysshe, & cast ]>e Sewe vppe-on, & serue forth for a potage. 

.Cxliiij. Schyconys with ]>e bruesse. — Take halfe a dosyn Chykonys, & 
putte hem iu-to a potte ; |ien putte j^er-to a gode gobet of freysshe Eeef, & lat 
hem boyle wyl ; putte ]'er-to Percely, Sawge leuys, Sauerey, nojt to smal 
hakkyd ; putte Jier-to Safroun y-now ; ]>en kytte ]>m Brewes, & skalde hem 
■with ]>e same broj^e ; Salt it wyl ; & but ^'ou haue Beef, take Motou?z, but 
fyrste StufFe J^in chekons in }iis wyse : take & 8ej?e hard Eyrouw, & take ]>e 
^olkys & choppe hem smal, & choppe Jier-to Clowys, Maces, Hole Pepir, & 
Stuffe ]>m chekonys w/t/i-al ; Also put hole gobettys & marye with ynne ; 
Also jien dresse hem as a pertryche, & fayre coloure hem, & ley vppe-on j'is 
browes, & serue in with Bakoun. 

.Cxlv. Blaunche Perreye. — Take Pesyn, & waysshe hem clene, & j^en take 
a gode quantyte of fyne leye, & putte it on a potte, & a lytil water J-er-to ; & 
whan ]>e ley is se]7in hot, caste Ipe Pesyn J'er-to, & }er late hem soke a gode 
whyle ; fen take a quantyte of wollen cloj^e, & rubbe hem, & ]>e holys^ wyl 
a-way ; j^enne take a seve or a wheterydoun, & ley J^in pesyn ]>er-on, & go to 
jje water, & waysshe hem clene a-way jje holys, j^en putte hem in a potte, & 
}ej wyl alle to-falle with a lytil boylynge, to pereye, saue \>e whyte Pepyn is 
])er-in, & j^at is a gode syjth ; j^en Salt hem, & serue hem forth. 
1 leaf 25. ^ ^ulls, shucks. 



cookp:ry book. i. harleian ms. 279. potage dyvers. 33 

•Cxlvj. Ry^th so Caboges' Ben seruyd, saue men sayn it is gode Also to 
ley hem in a bagge ouernyjth in rennyug streme of watere, & a-morwe sette 
vppe watere, & when ]>e water is skaldyng hot, j^row hem Jier on, & hoole 
hem in fern vrjse be-forsayd, & serue fortli. 

".Cxlvij. Brwes in lentyn. — Take AVater & let boyle, and draw a Iyer ]7er-to 
of Brede, of j^e cromys, w/tA wyne y-now ; lete alle ben wyne almost ; j^en put 
Jjer-to hony a gode quantyte, l^at it may ben dowcet, j^an putte ponder Pcpir 
]>er-to, Clowys, Maces, and Saunderys, & Salt, & skalde ]>m^ brewes tender, & 
serue f[orth]. 

.Cxlviij. Whyte Pesyn in g;-«uey. — Take Whyte Pesyn, & hoole hem in 
J^e maner as men don Caboges, or blaunche perry ; Jjan sethe hem with 
Almaunde mylke vppe, putte ]7er-to Sugre y-now, & fryid Oynonys & Oyle, 
& serue f[orth]. 

.Cxlix. A Potage. — Take an sethe a fewe eyron) in red "Wyne ; ]>an take & 
draw hem j^orw a straynoure w/tA a gode mylke of Almaiindys; l^en caste 
J^er-to Eoysonys of Coraunce, Dates y-taylid, grete E-oysonys, Pynes, ponder 
Pepir, Sawndrys, Clouys, Maces, Hony y-now, a lytil doucete, & Salt; j^an 
bynde hym vppe flat with a lytyl flowre of Eys, & let hem ben Red with 
Saunderys, & serue hym in flatte; & jif }on wolt, in fleyssh tyme caste vele 
y-choppid j>cr-on, not to smale. 

.CI. Cawdel out of lente. — Take & make a gode mylke of Almaundys 
y-draw vppe with wyne of Red, whyte is beterre ; jif it schal be whyte, 
jjan strayne jolkys of Eyroun fer-to a fewe. Put* j>er-to Sugre & Salt, 
but Sugre y-now ; J^en when it begynnyth to boyle, sette it out, & almost 
flatte ; serue it then forth, & euer kepe it as whyte as J?ou may, & at j^e 
dressoure di-oppe Alkenade J?er-on, & serue forth ; & jif ]>ou. wylt haue hjm 
chargeaunt, bynd hym vppe with filoMr [of] Rys, ojjer with whetyn floui'e, 
it is no fors. And jif ]?ou wolt, coloure hym with Safrown, & straw on 
ponder y-now, & Sugre y-now, & serwe f[orth]. 

.Clj. Creme Bastarde. — Take fe whyte of Eyroun a grete hepe, & putte 
it on a panne ful of Mylke, & let yt boyle ; '^I'en sesyn it so with Saltan hony 
a lytel, J^en lat hit kele, & draw it j^orw a straynoure, an take fayre Cowe 
mylke an draw yt w/t/i-all, & seson it with Sugre, & loke fat it be poynant 
& doucet : & serue it forth for a potage, or for a gode Bakyn mete, wheder 
]?at I'ou wolt. 

.Clij. Capoun in Salome. — Take a Capoun & skalde hym, Eoste hym, jren 
' i.e. Cabbages in just the same way. - If. 25 bk. ^ Thine. * MS. but. ^ If. 26. 



34 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. LECHE VYAUNDEZ. 

take jiikke Almaunde mylke, temper it wyth wyue Whyte o]>er Eed, take a 
lytyl Saunderys & a lytyl Safrouw, & make it a marbyl coloure, & so atte Jjc 
dressoure j^row on hym in ye kyckoun, & jrow J^e Mylke a-boue, & j^at is 
most commelyche, & serue forth. 

.Cliij. Pompys. — Take Beef, Porke, or Vele, on of hem, & raw, alle to- 
choppe it atte J;e dressoure, J^an grynd hem in a raorter as smal as ])0u may, 
J^an caste ])er-to Raw plkys of Eyrou?i, wyn, an a lytil whyte [sugre] : caste 
also ]7er-to ponder Pepyi-, & Macys, Clowes, Quybibys, ponder Canelle, 
Synamouii), & Salt, & a lytil Safroun ; ]>eu take & make smale Pelettys 
round y-now, & loke ]>at J>on haue a fayre potte of Freysshe brojie of bef or 
of Capoun, & euer j^row hem ]7er-on & lete hem sethe tyl J»at ]>ej ben y-now ; 
]7en take & draw vppe a jryfty mylke of Almaundys, w/tA cold freysshe 
brojje of Bef, Vele, Motou), oj^er Capo«n, & a-lye it with floure of Eys & we'tA 
Spycerye; & atte J^e dressoure ley J7es pelettys .v. or .vj. in a dysshe, & J^en 
pore ]>m sewe aneward,^ & seme in, or ellys make a gode Jjryfty Syryppe & 
ley pin- pelettys atte j>e dressoure fcr-on, & ]>at is gode Berujse.^ 

^ LECHE VYAUNDEZ. 

.1. Brawn in comfyte. — Take Preyssch Brawn & sethe yt y-now, & pare 
it & grynde it in a mortere, & tem-per it w«tA Almand mylke, & draw^ it 
]>orw a straynoure in-to a potte, & caste J^er-to Sugre y-now, & powder of 
Clowys, & let boyle ; J^en take floure of Canelle, & ponder of Gyngere ; & 
]>en take it out of j^e potte, an putte it in a lynen cloj^e & presse it, but lat it 
boyle so longe in jie potte tylle it be alle J^ikke ; j^an take it vppe & presse it 
on a clo]7e, & |7en leche it fayre with a knyff, but not to j^inne ; & J^aw jif ]>ou 
wolt, ]70u myjht take j>e Bybbys of j>e bore al bare, & chete ^ hem enlongys 
J'orw ]7e lechys, an so serue forth a leche or to in euery dysshe. 

.ij. Blaunche Brawen. — Take Preysshe Braun, & mynce hem smal, & take 
gode Jiikke mylke of Almaundys y-blaunchyde, & putte alle in-to a potte, «&; 
Sugre, & lat boyle alle to-gederys tyl it be ryjt styffe ; ]>en caste it vppe, & 
caste it in a fayre cold basyn, & lette it stonde J7er-in tyl it be cold ; «&; J^en 
leche .ij. or .iij. in a dysshe, & serue forth. 

.iij. Pynade. — Take Hony & gode ponder Gyngere, & Galyngale, & Canelle, 
Pouder pepir, & graynys of parys, & boyle y-fere ; j^an take kyrnelys of 
Pynotys & caste Jier-to ; & take chyconys y-soj^e, & hew hem in grece, & 

' on it. ~ Thine. ^ four blank pages follow. 

* If. 27 bk. 5 MS. dra!/. s get, see Douce MS. No. 48. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. LECHE VYAIINDEZ. 85 

caste ]?er-to, & lat sejje y-fere; & j>en lat droppe Jier-of on a knyf ; & jif it 
cleuyth & wexyth hard, it ys y-now ; & ]>en putte it on a chargere tyl it 
be cold, & mace^ lechys, & serue -with oj^er metys ; & jif J'ou wolt make it 
in spycery, j>en putte non chykonys ]7er-to. 

.iiij. Gyngerbrede. — Take a quart of hony, & sethe it, & skeme it clene; 
take Safrouu, pouder Pepir, & j^row j^er-on ; take gratyd Brede, & make it so 
chargeaunt* j^at it wol be y-lechyd; ]7en take pouder Canelle, & straw J>er-on 
y-now; J-en make yt^ square, lyke as j^ou wolt leche yt; take when )70U 
lechyst hyt, an caste Box leves a-bouyn, y-stykyd ]^er-on, on clowys. And 
jif J70U wolt haue it Red, coloure it with Saunderys y-now. 

.V. Leche lumbarde. — Take Datys, an do a-way ]>e stonys, & sethe in 
swete Wyne ; take hem vppe, an grynd hem in a mortere ; draw vppe J^orw a 
straynoure with a lytyl whyte Wyne & Sugre, And caste hem on a potte, & 
lete boyle tylle it be styfP ; J^en take yt vppe, & ley it on a horde ; ]?an take 
pouder of Gyngere & Canelle, & wryng it, & molde it to-gederys in j^in hondys, 
& make it so styf j^at it wolle be leehyd ; & jif it be nojt styf y-nowe, take 
hard plkys of Eyron) & kreme* ]7er-on, or ellys grated brede, & make it 
J-icke y-now ; j^en take clareye, & caste ]7er-on in maner of a Syryppe, when 
]7ou shalt serue it forth. 

.vj. Auter maner leche lumbarde. — Take fayre Hony, and clarifi yt on 
]>e fyre tylle it wexe hard ; J^en take hard jolkys of Eyroun, & kryme* a gode 
quantyte ]7er-to, tyl it be styf y-now ; an J^enne take it vppe, & ley it on a 
horde ; I'en take fayre gratyd Brede, & pouder pepir, & molde it to-gederys 
wiih yme hondys, tylle it be so styf )at it wole ben leehyd ; J^an leche it ; J^en 
take wyne & pouder Gyngere, Canelle, & a lytil claryfyid hony, & late renne 
]>OYw a straynour, & caste J^is Syryp ]7er-on, when ]>on shalt serue it out, 
instede of Clerye. 

.vij. Soupes of Salomere. — Take boylid Porke, & hew yt an grynd it ; 
J^en take cowe Mylke, & Eyroun y-swonge, & Safrou/2, & mynce Percely 
bladys, & caste ]7er-to, & let boyle alle y-fere ; & dresse vppe-on a cloj^e, & 
kerue j^er-of smal lechys, & do hem in a dysshe ; J^en take almaunde mylke & 
flowre of Rys, and Sugre an Safroun, & boyle it alle y-fere; )en caste j^in ^ 
sewe on j^in^ lechys, & serue forth alle bote. 

''.viij. Lette lardes.— Take kowe mylke, & do J^er-to Eyroun y-swonge; 
J?an take ryjt fatte Porke y-sothe, & hew it smalle, & sethe it ; take pouder 
Gyngere, Galyngale, or Pepir ; caste ]7er-to, colour it wyth Safroun, & caste 
1 A. male. ^ stiff. ^ if. 28. * Crimme ; crumble. ^ Thine. « If. 28 bk. 



36 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. LECHE ^TAUNDEZ. 

all Ifese to-gederys, & boyle it, & gadre ]>e croddes to hepe w/t^-al ; J^en take 
Tppe j^e croddys to hepe vi^ith Ale, & presse hem on a clo]?e ; Jian kerue ]?er-of 
lechys, & Hoste it on a gredyre, & strawe Sugre y-now alle a-bowte ; & jif 
jjou "wolt make J^at on syde Rede, an ]7at oj^er ^elow, Take Pannes, & make as 
I hane sayd, & coloure J^at on panne y^ith Saunderys, an Jjat other -with 
Saifroune, an ley on a cloj-e to-gederys, J^e Eede fyrste on fe clojie, an [lat] 
fe jelow be abouyn l^e Eede, & presse hem to-gederys, & that on syde "wol 
ben rede, & J^at oj^er jelow. An jif )70w wolt haue it Motley, take Jre pottys, 
& make letlardys in eche, & coloure J^at on w«tA Saunderys, & }at oj^er wyth 
Safroune, & j^e )jrydde on a-nother degre, so |iat ]>ej ben dyuerse ; an when 
Jrey boyle, caste al to-gederys in-to on, an stere hem a-bowte with j^in hond, 
& ]?an presse hem, and he wol be Motley whan he ys lechyd. 

.ix. Mange Moleynne. — Take Almaundys, an blaunche hem, an draw ]7orw 
a straynoure a J^icke mylke in-to an potte ; J^an take brawn of a Capoun, an 
hew it smalle, an do it in a potte, an lye it with Floure of Eys ; an do j7er-to 
whyte grece, & sethe alle to-gederys ; an when it is y-sothe, take vppe of j^e 
fyre, & do J^er-in Sugre y-now ; J^en take blaimchyd Almaundys, & fi'ye hem, 
& ley .iij. lechys on a dysshe, & on euery leche prycke .iij. Almaundys; an 
]7an serue it forth. 

.X. Vyaund de leche. — Take whyte ^''yne a god quantite, \an putte it on 
a potte ; J^en putte J^er-to raw jolkys of eyroun y-tryid, «&; pouder of clowys, 
& pouder canel y-now, an Safroun y-now ; J^an lat it boyle tyl it be ry^th 
chargeazmte, an J7en sette it doun ; & take an sette oner a panne of cowe milke, 
&: Jirow Saunderys y-nowe J^er-on ; J^en make a styf poshote' of Ale ; 'pen take 
fe croddys, an lat it honge on a pyn in a cloj^e, an lat it cleue euer j^erue- 
owt ; ^ pen take J>e cawdel f orsayd, & melle hem to-gederys in a cloj^e, with 
pe poshotte;'^ pen put ]7er-on Sugre, Canel, pouder Gyngere y-now; presse 
hem rp sware,* an leche it, & serue it forth. 

.xj. Vyaund leche. — Take cowe Mylke, & set it oner pe fyre, & J^row 
Jier-on Saunderys, & make a styf poshotte of Ale ; J^an hang J^e croddys ]7er-of 
in a pynnc, in a fayi-e cloj^e, and lat it ouer-renne ; J^an take it & put hony 
J?er-to, & melle it y-fere ; J'en feche pe croddys of pe deye,^ & melle hem to- 
gederys, & lay it on a chesefatte or it be torne, .iij. fold or iiij. fold, in lynen 
elo]7e, & salt it, & leche it ; & Jeanne serue it forth. 

.xij. Vyaund leche. — Take Eyroun, pe whyte & pe pYke, and caste hem 
in a mortor, an breke hem wyl ; J'an take cowe mylke & caste ]7cr-to, & menge 
1 If. 29. 2 Posset. 3 Throughout ? * Square. ^ DairA-maid. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. LECHE VYAUNDEZ. 37 

hem wyl to-geclerys ; ]7an put al in a panne, & lat boyle ; & with ale make it 
to a poshotte ; J^en hange ]>e croddys in a pynne, & let it ouer-renne ; melle 
]>e croddys w/tAhony ; }en. take j^e bladys of Barlyche, or of Percely, & sta?rtpe 
hem, & wrynge ]>otw a cloj^e; & so alle j^e grene, melle it a-mong fe croddys ; 
]7enne take ]ie cruddys ]7at comen fro ]>e deye, melle hem to-gederys, presse 
hera, & sprue hem forth ; an }>e coloure wyl ben j^an Motley. 

.xiij. Vyaund leche. — Take a gode quantyte of Brawn, an Hony, & a lytil 
brede, & let sethe to-gederys pouder Pepir, Clowys, ^ Maces, an Safroun, & 
draw it j^orwe a straynoure, & chafe it a litel, & caste it in fayre dysshis, an 
let it kele, & ]7an serue f [orth]. 

.xiiij. Vyaunde leche. — Take Hony a gode quantite; J^en take pouder 
Pcpir, & Safroun, & Canel, & caste ]jer-to ; & J^en caste it on a dysshe, & let 
it kele, & serue forth. 

.XV. Storioun- leche. — Take an howe^ of vele, & let boyle, butte fyrst 
late hym ben stepid .ij. or .iij. owrys in clene "Water to soke out ]>e blode, 
& whan it is tender y-sothe, take hym vppe as fast as ]>on may ; J^an 
take harde jolkys of Eyroun redy sothe, & caste also ]?er-to, & pouder 
Pepir y-now, & also choppe a-mong ]7e jynes* of ]ie fete clene y-pikyd, & a 
lytil Salt, nowt to moche, & presse hem on a clowte tyl a-morwe ^ ; j^an leche 
it, & lay hem in dysshis, an pore ]7er-[on] a quantyte of Venegre, & Pepir, & 
Percely, & Oynonys smal mencyd, & serue forth. 

.xvj. Chare de wardoun leche. — Take Perys, & se]ie ham, & Pike ham & 
stampe ham, & draw hem Jiorw a straynoure, & lye it with Bastard ; j^en 
caste hem in-to a potte, & Safroun w^'t^-al, and boyle with Maces, Clowes, 
pouder Canel, Quibibes, &^ a litel pouder Pepir, & Rolle hem vppe with 
Brede, ])e cromes with-in ])m hondys, & serue forth. 

.xvij. [Vyaund leche]. — Take calfes fete an hepe, & lat stepe in cold 

waters ; J^en boyle hem smal ; ]>an take j^e broj^e & gode Milke of Almaundys, 

& choppe j^e Syneys' in-to ]>e same milk rythte smal ; J'an boyle it ouer ])e 

fyie, & coloure it with Saunderys, & put Sugre y-now in-to J^e potte ; & jif ]>ou 

wolt haue hym of .ij. colour, ]7an take an coloure but half with Saunderys, 

& caste ]7at oj^ere half in a dysshe, & lat it kele ; & whan it is cold, ]7en ]?at is 

y-colouryd with Saunderys, het it, & euene® melle it bote ; caste hem a-bouyn 

])e oj^er, & lat kele, an J^an serue forth. Than take Sugre, a quantyte '•' of 

swete Wyne, & Blaunche pouder Jier-on, & make Sawce ])er-oi; And so 

colde, ley it in j^e dysshis, be-helyd," & serue f[orth]. 

1 If. 29 bk. 2 Sturgeon. ' Hock. * Sinews. ^ To-morrow. 

6 MS. & an. ' Sinews. ^ Euenly. ^ If. 30. ^o Covered. 



.38 COOKERY BOOK, I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. LECHE VYAUNDEZ. 

.xviij. Vyaund leche. — Take a Tenche, an steiie hym in a potte w/tA 
Wyne ; when he is y-now, pyke owt ]>e bonys, take an stampe hem in a 
morter ; jjen take a lytil of J^icko Almaunde mylke, & putte ]>er-to ; |ien take 
hem vppe, & putte hem in j)e brol^e forsayde, fat it was y-so]7e in, & J^at 
y-straynid ; caste ]>eY-to Maces, Clowes, ponder Pepir, & Ponder Canelle ; 
]7an caste Safron J^er-to ; j^en caste him in a dysshe, & lat hem kele ; ]>en put 
'Vjnegre, pouder Gyngere, Canel y-now in ye botmond^ j^er-of, vnnejje 
y-helyd.^ 

.xix. Pome dorres. — Take Fylettys of Eaw porke, & grynd hem wyl ; do 
Salt [and] pouder Pepir j^er-to ; jjan take J^e Whyte of the Eyroun [and] 
jjrow ]>er-to, & make hem so hard Jiat J^ey mow ben Eosted on a Spete ; make 
hem round as an Appil : make fyre with-owte smoke ; fen take Almaunde 
mylke, & y-bontyd^ floz^r, do hem to-gederys; take Sugre, & putte in j^in* bature; 
fen dore hem w/tA sum grene fing, percely or jolkys of Eyroun, to-geder, 
jjat ]>ej ben grene ; & be wyl war fat fey ben nowt Browne ; & sum men 
boyle hem in freysshe bro]? or J^ey ben spetid ; & whan J?ey ben so boylid, ]7en 
j'ey must ben sette an kelid, & Jian Spete hem, & dore hem w*t7i jolkys of 
Eyroun y-mengyd with fe Ins of haselle leuys. 

.XX. Yrchouns. — Take Piggis mawys, & skalde hem wel ; take grouwdyn 
Porke, & knede it w/tA Spiceiye, yvith pouder Gyngere, & Salt & Sugre ; do it 
on J^e mawe, but fille it nowt to fulle ; J^en sewe hew* with a fayre |>rede, & 
putte hem in a Spete as men don piggys ; take blaunchid Almaundys, & kerf 
hem long, smal, & scharpe, & frye hem in grece & sugre ; take a litel prycke, 
& prykke j^e yrchons, An putte in fe holes fe Almaundys, every hole half, 
& eche fro oj^er ; ley hem J^en to fe fyre ; when fej ben rostid, dore hem sum 
wyth ^ Whete Flowre, & mylke of Almaundys, sum grene, sum blake with 
Blode, & lat hem nowt browne to moche, & s[erue] f [orth]. 

.xxj. An Entrayle. — Take a chepis wombe ; take Polettys y-rostyd, & hew 
hem; J^en take Porke, chese, & Spicery, & do it on a morter, & grynd alle 
y-fere ; Jien take it vppe with Eyrouw y-swonge, & do in J^e wombe, & Salt, & 
se|ie hem tyl he be y-nowe, & serue forth. 

.xxij. For to make floure Rys. — Take Pys, an lese hem clene ; j^en drow 
hem wyl in J^e Sonne, Jiat j'ey ben drye ; j'an bray hem smal y-now ; & j^erow 
a crees bunte syfte hem, & for defaute of a bonte, take a Renge.^ 

.xxiij. Pome-Garnez. — Take lene Eaw Porke, & lene raw Flesshe of 
hennys, & raw eyroun?, & rent fe flesshe fro fe bonys, & hew it smal ; take 
I Bottom. ' Scarcely covered. ^ Bolted, sifted. * Thine. ^ If. 30 bk. « Eiag strainer. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. LECHE VYAUNDEZ. 39 

Jeanne Salt, Gyngere, & Safroun, Salt, Galyngale, J'er-of y-now, & caste it in 
a morter, & bray it smal ; take Jian Jiin fleysshe, & caste it in-to ]>at morter to 
])e Spyceiy, & ]7at it be wyl y-grounde ; Jianne make J^er-of pelettys, as it were 
Applys, be-twene ]>m hondys ; loke ]>om haue a fayre panne sething ouere ];e 
fyre, & do J^er-on J^in pelettys, & late hem nowt sethe to swythe, & J>an lat 
hem kele ; & whan ]>cj ben cold, jif hem a fayre spete of haselle, & be-twyn 
euery, loke ]>eY be an ynche, & lay hem to j^e fyre : & J^an make ]>m baturys, 
J)e on grene, & J'at o|;er jelow ; ])e grene of Percely. 

.xxiiij. WaflEres. — Take j^e Wombe of A luce, & se]>e here wyl, & do it on 
a morter, & tender chese ]?er-to, grynde hem y-fere ; J^an take flowre an 
•whyte of Eyroun & bete to-gedere, J^en take Sugre an ponder of Gyngere, & 
do al to-gederys, & loke J^at J^in Eyroun ben bote, & ley J^er-on of j^in 
paste, & ]7an make j>in "waffrys, & serue yn. 

\xxv. Hagws of a schepe. — Take ]>e Roppis'^ with j^e taloMr,^ & parboyle 
hem ; ]?an hakke hem smal ; grynd pepir, & Safroun, & brede, & plkys of 
Eyroun, & Raw kreme or swete Mylke : do al to-gederys, & do in ]>e grete 
wombe of j^e Schepe, J^at is, the mawe ; & jian se]?e hym an serue forth yune. 

xxyj. Frawnchemyle. — IVym Eyroun w/t/i Ipe whyte, & gratid Brede, & 
chepis talow. Also grete as dyse ; nym Pepir, Safroun, & grynd alle to- 
gederys, & do in j'e wombe of J^e chepe, J^at is, ]>e mawe ; & se]7e hem wyl, 
& serue forth. 

xxvij. Appraylere. — Take j^e fleysshe of j^e lene Porke, & sej^e it wel : & 
•whan it is so]7e, hew it smal ; nym J^an Safroun, Gyngere, Canel, Salt, 
Galyngale, old chese, myid * Brede, & bray it smal on a morter ; caste j^in ^ 
fleysshe in to pe spicery, & loke l^at it be wil y-ground, & temper it vppe 
with raw Eyroun ; ]7an take a longe Pecher, al a-bowte ouer alle pat it be 
ransched;^ ]7an held ' out J^in grece, & fulle J^i Pechir of J^in farsure, & take 
a pese of fayre Canneuas, & doble it as moche as pon may ceuyr pe mouj^e 
■with-al, & bynd it fast a-bowte pe berde,^ & caste hym to sej^e with jjin 
grete Fleysshe, in lede oj^er in Cauderoun, for it be wyl so]7in ; take J^en 
yppe j^in Pecher, & broke it, an saf ]'in farsure ; & haue a fayre broche, 
& broche it porw, & lay it to pe fyre ; & pan haue a gode Bature of 
Spicerye, Safroun, Galyngale, Canel, & per-oi y-now, & flowre, & grynd 
smal in a morter, & temper it vp with raw Eyroun, & do ]jer-to Sugre of 
Alisaunder ^ y-now ; & euer as it dryit, baste it with bature, & sette forth 
in seruyce. 

Mf. 31. 2 Guts. 3 Tallow; fat. * Crumbed. * Tbine. 

^ Einsed. ' Cast. ^ Rim. ^ Alexandria. 



40 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS, 279. LECHE VYAUNDEZ. 

.xxviij. Cokyntryce. — Take a Capoun, & skald hym, & di-aw hem clene, 
& smyte hem a-to in J^e waste ouerj^wart ; take a Pigge, & skald hym, & 
draw hym in ]>e same maner, & smyte hem also in ]>e waste ; take a nedyl 
& a ]>vede, & sewe fe fore partye of the 'Capoun to j^e After parti of J^e 
Pygge ; & ]>e fore partye of ]>e Pigge, to ]>e hynder party of j^e Capoun, & 
Jan stuffe hem as ]jou stuffyst a Pigge ; putte hem on a spete, & Roste hym : 
& whan he is y-now, dore hem with jolkys of Eyroun, & ponder Gyngere & 
Safroun, J^enne wyth ])e Ins of Pcreely w/tA-owte ; & Jian serue it forth 
for a ryal mete. 

.xxix. Milke Rostys. — Take swete Mylke, an do it in a panne; take 
Eyroun with alle ]ie whyte, & swenge hem, & caste Jier-to ; colo?/r it with 
Safroun, & boyle it so ]7at it wexe J^ikke ; j^an draw it J^orw a straynoure, 
& nym that leuyth,* & presse it : & whan it is cold, larde it, & schere on 
schevres,^ & roste it on* a Gredelle, & serue f[orth]. 

.XXX. Alows de Beef or de Moto«<ii. — Take fayre Bef of ]>e quyschons,^ & 
motoun of j^e bottes, & kytte in )^e maner of Stekys ; J^an take raw Percely, 
& Oynonys smal y-scredde, & plkys of Eyroun soj^e hard, & Marow or 
swette, & hew alle ]>es to-geder smal ; j^an caste ]7er-on poudere of Gyngere & 
Saffroun, & tolle hem to-gederys with j>in hond, & lay hem on |^e Stekys 
al a-brode, & caste Salt l^er-to ; fen rolle to-gederys, & putte hem on a round 
spete, & roste hem til ]>ej ben y-now ; jmn lay hem in a dysshe, & pore 
J^er-on Vynegre & a lityl verious, & ponder Pepir ])er-on y-now, & Gyngere, 
& Canelle, & a fewe plkys of hard Eyroun y-krerayd 'per-on ; & serue forth. 

.xxxj. To make Stekys of vensou) or bef. — TakeVenyson or Bef, & leche 
& gredyl it vp broun ; J^en take Yynegre & a litel verious, & a lytil "Wyne, 
& putte pouder perpir jier-on y-now, and ponder Gyngere ; & atte j>e dressoure 
straw on pouder Canelle y-now, l^at ]>e stekys be al y-helid j^er-wyth, & but 
a litel Sawce ; & ]>an serue it forth. 

•xxxij. A Siryppe "pur vn pestelle. — Take gode Wyne, & a-lye yt ^with 
raw jolkys of Eyroun ; J^an late hem boyle to-gederys a whyle ; ]7en put 
pouder Pepir, & jirow it }7er-on ; loke ]>at it be bytyng of Pepir. Take 
Clowys, macys, Safroun, & caste ]>er-to ; & atte jie dressoure j^orw on jjin 
Sirip on ])i pestelle, & kreme hard plkys of Eyroun ]>er-to, & serue forht. 

.xxxiij. Pygge y-farsyd. — Take raw Eyroun, & draw hem ))orw a strayn- 
oure ; J;an grate fayre brede ; take Safroun & Salt, & pouder of Pepir, & 
Swet of a schepe, & melle alle to-gederys in a fayre bolle ; fen broche J^in 

1 If. 31 bk. 2 Take what remains. ^ Shivers; thin strips. 

* MS. ($• on. s Cushions. « If. 32. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. LECHE VYAUNDEZ. 41 

Pygge ; ]?eii farce hym, & sewe ]>e hole, & lat hym roste ; & j^an Si?rue 
forth. 

.xxxiiij. Poddyng of Capou« necke. — Take Percely, gysour, & ]>e leuer 
of ])e herte, & perboyle in fayre water ; j^au choppe hem smal, & put raw 
plkys of Eyroun .ij. or .iij. ]ier-to, & choppe iov--with. Take Maces & 
Clowes, & put ];er-to, & Safroun, & a lytil pouder Pepir, & Salt; & fille 
hym vppc & sew hym, & lay him a-long on J^e capon Eakke, & prycke hym 
J>cr-on, and roste hym, & serue f[orth]. 

.XXXV. Capoun or gos farced. — Take Percely, & Swynys grece, or Sewet 
of a schepe, & parboyle hem to-gederys til J^ey ben tendyr; J^an take 
harde plkys of Eyroun, & choppe for-w/tA ; caste ])er-to Pouder Pepir, 
Gyngere, Canel, Safroun, & Salt, & grapis in tyme of jere, & clowys 
y-nowe ; & for defawte of grapis, Oynons, fyrst wil y-boylid, & afterward 
alle to-choppyd, & so stufFe hym & roste hym, & serue hym forth. And 
jif ]70 lust, take a litil Porke y-sode, & al to-choppe hit smal a-mong )7«t 
o|ier ; for it wol be J^e better, & namely ^ for ]>e Capoun. 

.xxxvj. Pokerounce. — Take Hony, & caste it in a potte tyl it wexe 
chargeaunt y-now ; take & skeme it clene. Take Gyngere, Canel, & Galyn- 
gale, & caste ]>er-to ; take whyte Brede, & kytte to trenchours,^ & toste ham ; 
take j^in paste whyle it is hot, & sprede it vppe-^on j^in trenchourys with 
a spone, & plante it with Pynes, & serue f[orth]. 

.xxxvij. Sauoge. — Take Pigis fete clene y-pekyd; J^an tak Freysshe brojje 
of Beff, & draw mylke of Almaundys, & J^e Piggys J^er-in ; j^en mence 
Sawge ; |ian grynd hym smal, & draw owt j^e lus ]>oyw a straynoure ; J^an 
take clowys y-now, & do j^er-in pouder Gyngere, & Canelle, Galyngale, 
Vynegre, & Sugre y-now ; Salt it |ian, & Jeanne serue forth. 

.xxxviij. A Kyde a-Forsyde. — Take a pigge, & make hym clene, and 
Skynne hym, & Pylle it fill of suche mete as J^ou dost a capoun ; ]7an take 
])e fleysshe, & vntrusse hym on a spete, in ]>e maner of a kede, & roste hym ; 
& endore hym with jolkys of Eyroun as an kede, & Jian serue forth. 

.xxxix. Eyroun in lentyn. — Take Eyroun, & blow owt ]7at ys with-ynne 
atto o]7er ende ; ]7an waysshe ]>e schulle clene in warme "Water ; J^an take gode 
mylke of Almaundys, & sette it on ]>e fyre ; J7an take a fayre canvas, & pore 
jie mylke per-on, & lat renne owt ]>e water; ]>en take it owt on ];e clo]7e, & 
gader it to-gedere with a platere ; ]>en putte sugre y-now jier-to ; ]7an take ]7e 
halvyndele, & colour it with Safroun, a lytil, & do J^er-to pouder Canelle ; 
1 MS. a tiainely, ^ two trenchers, big slices. ^ If. 32 bk. 



42 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. LECHE VYAUNDEZ. 

J^an take & do of ]>e whyte in the ne]>er ende of ]>e schulle, & in fe myddel 
]>e pYk, & fylle it vppe 'with j>e whyte ; but nojt to f ulle, for goyng ouer ; Jian 
sette it in j>e fyre & roste it, & seme f[ortli]. 

.xl. Puddyng^ of p»/-paysse. — Take ])e Blode of hym, & ]>e grece of liym 
self, & Ote-mele, & Salt, & Pepir, & Gyngere, & melle j^ese to-gederys "wel, 
& J^an putte ]>is in j>c Gutte of ]>e purpays, & J^an lat it sej^e csyli, & not 
hard, a good whylys ; & j^an take hyni vppe, & broyle hym a lytil, & j^an 
sertie f[orth]. 

.xli. RaynoUej. — IS'yrn sode Porke & chese, & sej^e y-fere, & caste J^er-to 
gode ponder Pepir, Canelle, Gyngere, Clowes, Mac[e]^, ^an close J^in comade 
in dow, & frye it in freysshe grece ryjt wel ; an Jeanne serue it forth. 

.xlij. Froyse in lentynne. — Take "Fygis & Eoysonys, & grynde hem in a 
mortere, & draw vppe •with kreme of Almaundys ; j^an take Rys Jjorw a 
clo]?e ; J^an take ]>e Luce, an jie Perche, & ]>e Schrympe, & sejie hem, & do 
a- way ]>e bonys, & Jie hedys, & grynde hem in an Mortere, & draw hym vppe 
w/tA ]>e creme of ]>e Almaundys ; |7en take Rys, & do hem on a potte ouer ])e 
fyre, "Whan J'ey ben clene, with a lytil Watere, late hem sej^e til ]>ej ben 
drye, & j^at ]>ej schorge ; fan take & hew on a horde, & do j^er-to ; J^en 
take Sugre, & Safrouw a goode quantyte, & gode pouder, & caste Jj^r-to, 
& boyle it y-fere, & frye it in oyle, & make j7er-of a Froyse, & serue 
f[orth]. 

.xliij. Payn pur-dew. — Take fayre jolkys of Eyrouw, & trye hem fro j^e 
whyte, & draw hem J^orw a straynoure, & take Salt and caste j^er-to ; J^an 
take fayre brede, & kytte it as troundej rounde ; ]jan take fayre Boter )7at 
is claryfiyd, or ellys fayre Freysshe grece, & putte it on a potte, & make 
it bote ; j^an take & wete wyl ]?in troundej in j^e jolkys, & putte hem in ]>e 
panne, an so frye hem vppe ; but ware of cleuyng to the panne ; & whan it 
is fryid, ley hem on a dysshe, & ley Sugre y-nowe )7er-on, & Jeanne serue 
it forht. 

•xliiij. Meselade.2 — Take Eyroun, ])e plkys an ])e whyte to-gedere, & 
draw hem J^orw a straynoure ; & ]>aii take a litil Botere, & caste in a fayre 
frying panne ; & whan Jje boter is hot, take ]}e drawyn Eyroun, & caste 
]7er-to ; J'an take a Sawcere, an gadre ]>e Ep-oun to-gedere in ]>e panne, as it 
were ])e brede of a pewter dysshe; & jjan take fayre pecej of Brede, ]>e 
mountance of a mosselle of Brede, vppe-on ]>e Eyroun, & turne J^an [thy]^ 
brede downward in ]je panne ; Jeanne *take it of j^e panne, & caste fayre whyte 
1 If. 33. 2 See MaUsadt in Douce MS. ^ Added from A. * If. 33 bk. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HAKLEIAN MS. 279. LECHE VYAUNDEZ. 43 

Sugre j^er-to, & serue forth ; an to eueiy good meslade take a powsand 
Eyroiin or mo. 

•xlv. Brawune fryej. — Take Brawune, & kytte it Jiiune ; J^an take J^e 
jolkys of Ep'oun, & sum of "pe whyte ]>eT-with ; J'arL take mengyd Flowre, an 
draw ]>e Eyroun ]7orw a straynoure ; yen take a gode quantyte of Sugre, 
Saferoun, & Salt, & caste ^/er-to, & take a fayre panne with Freyssche gres, 
& set ouer j^e fyre ; & wlian ]>e grece is bote, take J7e Brawn, an putte in 
bature, & turne it wyl J^cr-yn, an J^an putte it on ]>e panne with ]>e grece, 
& late frye to-gederys a lytil wliyle ; j^an take it vppe in-to a fap"e dyssche, 
& caste Sugre J>er-on, & ]7an serue forth. 

.xlvj. Longe Fretoure. — Take Milke, an make fayre croddes ])er-oi, in ]>e 
maner of a chesc al tendyr ; J^an take owt ]>c whey as clene as ]>ou. may, & 
putte it on a bolle ; l^an take jolkys of Eyroun & Ale, & nienge floure, & cast 
j7er-to, a gode quantyte, & draw it Jjorw a straynoure in-to a fayre vesselle ; 
]7an take a panne with fayre grece, & hete it on ]>e fyre, but lat it nowt 
boyle, & Jian ley J'in creme a brode; J^an take a knyff, & kytte a quantyte 
j^er-of fro J^e horde in-to ]>e panne, & efte a-noj^er, & let it frye ; & whan 
it is brownne, take it vppe in-to a fayre dyssche, and caste Sugre y-now 
]7er-on, & serue forth. 

.xlvij. Rapeye. — Take dow, & make ]7er-of a ymne kake ; Jeanne take Fygys 
& raysonys smal y-groimde, & temper hem with Almaunde Milke ; take 
pouder of Pcpir, & of Galyngale, Clowes, & raenge to-gederys, & ley on Jjin 
kake a-long as bene koddys, & ouer-caste J^in kake to-gederys, & dewte on 
j^e eggys, an frye in Oyle, & serue forth. 

.xlviij. Ryschewys in lente. — Take Fygys & sethe hem uppe in Ale; 
]7an take whan ]7cy ben tendyr, & bray hem smal on a Mortere; 'j^an take 
Almaundys, & sehrede hem fer-to smal ; take Perys, & schrede hem ]>er-to ; 
take datys, & schrede hem J^er-to ; & nym Milwel or lenge, jjat is wel 
y-wateryd, & tese Jier-to ; j^an make Jiin farsure, & rolle a-long in J^in 
hond, & ley hem in flowre ; J^an make J^in bature with ale & Floure, & 
frye hem vppe brown in Oyle ; ryjt so, make round-lyke Fretourys in ]>q 
maner be-for-sayd, & frye hem vppe, & J^at ben y-clepid Eagons, & ]7anne 
serue hem forth. 

.xlix. Hanoney. — Take an draw J-e Whyte & ])e ^olkys of ]>e Eyroun ]7orw 
a straynoure ; J-an take OjTionys, & schrede hem smal ; Jian take fayre Boter 
or grece, & vnnej^e kyuer J^e panne |7er-w/t/i, an frye fe Oynonys, & J^an 
caste j^e Eyroun in J^e panne, & breke j^e Eyrouns & ]>e Oynonys to-gederys; 

1 leaf 34 



44 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. LECHE VYAUNDEZ. 

an ]7an lat hem frye to-geclerys a litel -svhyle ; J^an take hem vp, an serue 
forth alle to-broke to-gederys on a fayre dyssche. 

.1. Hagas de Almaynne. — Take Fayre Ep^oun, ]>e jolke & j^e Whyte, & 
draw hem J^orw a strayuo;<r ; j^an take Fayre Percely, & parboyle it in a 
potte ■with boyling broj^e ; j^an take ]>e plkys of Eyroun hard y-sothe, & 
hew ]>e plkys & ]>e Percely smal to-gederys ; j^an take Sugre, pouder 
Gyngere, Salt, & caste J^er-to ; j^en take merow, & putte it on a straynourys 
ende, & lat hange in-to a boyling potte ; & parboyle it, & take it vppe, & 
let it kele, & Jian kytte it in smal pecys ; ]>an take j>e drawyn Eyroun, 
& put hem in a panne al a-brode, & vnnej7e ony grece in ]>e panne, & cowche 
ye jolkys & ]>e Percely J^er-on in fe panne, & J^an cowche of ])e Marow pecys 
jjer-on, & j/an fold vppe eche kake by-nej^e eche corner in .iiij. square, as 
platte, and turne it on J^e panne onej ; let lye a litel whyle ; J'an take it yp 
& serue f[orth]. 

Mj. Cryspej. — Take "Whyte of Eyi-oun, Mylke, & Floure, & a lytel Berme, 
& bete it to-gederys, & draw it jjorw a straynoure, so ]iat it be renneng, & 
not to styf, & caste Sugre ]7er-to, & Salt ; Jeanne take a chafer ful of freysshe 
grece boyling, & put ];in bond in ]>e Bature, & lat )?in bature renne dowun 
by j^in fyngerys in-to j>e chafere ; & whan it is ronne to-gedere on jie chafere, 
»& is y-now, take & nym a skymer, & take it vp, & lat al ]>e grece renne 
owt, & put it on a fayre dyssghe, & cast ]7er-on Sugre y-now, & serue forth. 

.lij. Ryschewys of Marow. — Take fayre Flowre & raw jolkys of Eyroun, 
& Sugre, & Salt, & pouder of Gyngere, & Safroun, & make fayre cakes ; & 
I'an take marow, Sugre, & pouder of Gyngere, & ley it on J^in cake, & fold 
hem to-gederys, & kytte hem in ]>e maner of Eysschewes, & frye hem in 
freyssche grece, & Jeanne serue forth. 

.Iiij. Lesynges de chare. — Take fajrre Buttys of Porke; hewe hem, & 
grynd hem, & caste j^er-to Eaw jolkys of Eyroun, & Jien putte it in-to a 
fayre Vesselle; & take Eoysonys of corauws, & dates myncyd, & pouder 
of Gyngere, Pepir, & Safroun, & Sugre, an melle all J^es to-gederys; & 
make fayre past of Sugre & Safroun, & Salt ; temper j^er-in, & make 
•ij. fayre flat cakys fier-of, & lay ]>e stuf j^er-on al a-brode on j^e cake al 
flat ; & J'an take |iat oj^er cake, & lay hym al a-brode j^er-on ; & Jian kytte 
[the] cakys jjorw with an knyf in maner of lesyngys ; & J'an make fayre 
bature of Raw plkys of Eyroun, Sugre, & Salt, & close ]>e sydys of j^e 
lesyngj ]>er-with, & j^an frye hem in fayre grece, & serue forth. 

.liiij. Fretoiire. — Take whete floure. Ale jest, Safroun, & Salt, & bete 

1 leaf 34 bk. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. LECHE VYAUNDEZ. 45 

alle to-gederys as J^ikke as ])on schuldyst make o])er bature in fleyssche 
tyme ; & ]>an take fayre Applys, & kut hem in manner of Pretouiys, & wete 
hem in ]>e bature vp on downne, & frye hem in fayre Oyle, & caste hem 
in a dyssche ; & caste Sugr^ jjer-on, & serue forth. 

.Iv. Chawettys Fryidde. — Take & make fayre past of flowre & -water, 
Sugre, & Safroun, & Salt ; & J^an make fayre round cofyns Jier-of ; & J^en 
fylle j'in cofyns ^y^th ]>m stuf, & keuere J^in cofyns w/tA j^e same past, 
& frye hem in gode Oyle, & serue f[orth]. 

.Ivj. Tansye. — Take fayre Tansye, & grynd in a morter ; Jeanne take 
Eyroun, j^e jolkys & ]>e whyte, & stray [ne] hem J^orw a straynoure ; & 
strayne also ]>e lus of ]>e Tansye, & melle to-gederes ; & take fayre Freysche 
grece, & put J^er-on ouer j>e fyre, tylle it melte ; j^an caste ])e stuf J^er-on, & 
gadere to-gedere vcith a Sawcer or a dysshe, as Jjou wolt it, lasse oj^er more, 
& turne it in ]'e pawne ; & j^an serue it forth. 

.Ivij. Froyse out of Lentyn. — Take Eyroun & draw J^e pikes & J^e whyte 
Jiorw a straynoure ; J^an take fayre Bef or vele, & sethe it tyl it be y-now ; 
])an hew cold o])er bote, & melle togederys fe eggys, J^e Bef, or vele, & 
caste ]7er-to Safroun, & Salt, & ponder of Pepir, & melle it to-gederys ; Jjan 
take a fayre Frying-panne, & sette it ouer l^e fyre, & caste J;er-on fayre 
freysshe grece, & make it hot, & caste ]>e stuf ]>eT-on, & store it wel in 
Jie panne tyl it come to-gedeiys wel ; cast on fe panne a dysshe & presse 
it to-gederys, & turne it onys, & )>anne serue it forth. 

.Iviij. Ryschewys close & Fryez. — Take Fygys, & grynd hem smal in a 
mortere w/tA a lytil Oyle, & grynd w«tA hym clowys & Maces ; & ]?an take 
it vppe in-to a vesselle, & cast )?er-to Pynez, Saundrys, & Roysonys of 
Coraunce, & mencyd Datys, Ponder Pepir, Canel, Salt, Safroun ; -];an take 
fyne past of flowre an water, Sugre, Safroun, & Salt, & make fap'e cakys 
]>er-oi; J^an rolle J^in stuf in l^in bond, & couche it in J-e cakys, & kyt 
it, & folde hym as Ruschewys, & frye hem vppe in Oyle ; and serue 
forth bote. 

.lix. 'Nese Bekys. — Take Fygys & grynd hem wel ; j>an take F[re]yssche * 
Samoun & goode Freysscbe Elys wyl y-sothe, & pyke owt Jie bonys, & 
grynd ]>e Fyssche vfith ]>e Fygis, & do j^er-to powder Gyngere, Canelle ; & 
take fayre past [of]^ Flowre, & make fayre cakys ryth J^inne, & take of ]>e 
fars, & lay on ]>e cake, & close 'with a-no)7er ; ]>en take a Sawcere, & skoure ]>e 
sydis, & close ]>e cake, & Frye hem wyl in Oyle ; & jif ]>ou wolt bane hym 
1 leaf 35. - leaf 35 bk. 3 p jis. N or M. ^ MS. Fi/ssehe ; A. fresshe. ^ o/ added from A. 



46 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. LECHE VYAUNDEZ. 

partye, coloiire hym -with Safroun, Percely, & Sawnderys ; & serue forth, for 
a gode fryid mete. 

•Ix. Mylej in Rapeye. — Take Fygys & wasclie hem clene, and boyle hem in 
"wyne, & grynd hem smal, & draw hem vppe 'with ])e Wyne J^at J^ey were 
sothyn in ; Jian take flowre of Rys, & Wyne, & draw Jiorw a straynoure, & do 
]7er-to ponder Gjnger, Canelle, Macej, Quybibej, & J^en take Freyssche 
Samoun, o]7e[r] Pike or gode Freyssche Codlyng ; sej^e it wyl, & pike owt ]>e 
bonys; j'an take perys y-coryd, & grynde hem ryjth smal & wyl -with ]>e 
Fyssche ; Jian take hard plkys of Eyroun soj^in, & grynd it wyth-al, & do it 
in-to yin veselle, & take wrtA Sugre & ponder Gynger, & meng it w«tA 
]>e farcere ^ wyl, & presse hem to-gederys ; J^an make a gode bature ^ of 
Almaunde mylke & Floure, & do j^er-in, & frye hem wyl in Oyle, & ley 
hem yn a dyssche, & pore on fe Sew, & serue forth. 

.Ixj. Cruste Rolle. — Take fayre smal Flowre of whete ; nym Eyroun & 
breke J>er-to, & coloure J^e past with Safroun ; rolle it on a horde also Jiinne 
as prtrchement, rounde a-bowte as ^an oblye ; * frye hem, & serue forth ; and 
]?us may do in lente, but do away ])q Eyroun, & nym mylke of Almaundys, & 
frye hem in Oyle, & j^en serue forth. 

.Ixij. Chawettys a-forsed. — Take Merybonys & Porke; hew it an Eaw 
plkys of Eyroun, & melle to-gederys -with ponder Canelle, Pepir, Gyngere, 
& Safroun, & Sugre y-now ; kyuere hem, frye hem vp in Grece, & seme forth. 
.Ixiij. Fretoure owt of lente. — Take Flowre, Milke, & Eyroun, & grynd 
Pepir & Safroun, & make J^er-of a bature; pare Applys, & ster hem, & frye 
hem vppe. 

.Ixiiij. Towres. — Take & make a gode ]?ikke bature of jolkys of Eyroun, 
& marow y-now \ier-on, ponder pepir, Macej, clowes, Safroun, Sugre, & 
Salt; & jif jpou wolt, a litel soj^e Porke or vele y-choppid; j^er-to take jten 
]>e whyte of Eyroun, & strayne hem in-to a boUe ; J^an putte a lytil SafFroiin 
& Salt to J7e whyte, & sette a panne with grece ouer fe fyre, & he-war J^at 
l^in grece be nowt to bote; Jian putte a litel of ]>e "Whyte comade in ]>e 
panne, & late flete al a-brode as ]70u makyst a pancake ; j'en, whan it is 
sumwhat styf, ley j^in comade of |iin Eyroun, J7at is to saying, of j^e plkys, 
in ]>e myddel, & caste by ]>e cake round a-bowte, & close hym foure-square, & 
fry hem vp, & seme hem forth for Sopeiys in Somere.*^ 

' Farcure ; stuffing. ^ MS. a gode a bature gode. ' leaf 36. 

* Oble, sacramental wafer. ^ four pages and a quarter blank here in the MS. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. DYUERSE BAKE METIS. 47 

^HERE BEGYNNYTH DYUERSE BAKE METIS. 

.1. Tartes de chare. — Take Freyssche Porke, & hew it, & grynd it on 
a mortere ; & take it vppe in-to a fayre vesselle ; & take J^e whyte an Jie jolkys 
of Eyroun, & strayne into a Yesselle forw a straynoure, & tempere ]7in 
Porke jier-with; ]7an take Pynez, Roysonys of Coraunce, & frye hem in 
freysshe grece, & caste ]>er-to ponder Pepir, & Gyngere, Canelle, Sugre, 
Safroun, & Salt, & caste ])er-to, & do it on a cofynne, & plante j^in cofynne 
a-boue with Pynej, & kyt Datys, & gret Roysonys, & smal byrdys, or ellys 
hard jolkys of Eyronn ; & jif ]>ou take byrdys, frye hem on a lytel grece or 
J70W puttc hem on yin cofynne, & endoro yvith jolkys of Eyroun, & Safroun, 
& lat bake til it be y-now, & serue forth. 

.ij . A-noj^er manere. — Take Eygys, Roysonys, & Porke, & a lytel brede 
y-ground y-fere ; take hym vppe, & put Pepir y-now j^er-to, & Macej, 
Clowys, & make |?in cofyn, & putte J^in comade J^er-on. 

.iij. A-no]7er manere. — Tak fayre porke y-broylid, & grynd it smal w/'tA 
jolkys of Eyroun ; ]>an take Pepir, Gyngere, & grynd it smal, & melle it 
Wit/i-al, & a lytel hony, & floryssche ])in cofyns w/tA-ynne & w/t/t-owte, & 
hele hem with ]>m ledys,^ & late hem bake, & serue forth. 

.iiij . Daryoles. — Take wyne & Fr[e]ssche bro]?e, Clowes, Maces, & Marow, 
& ponder of Gyngere, & Safroun, & let al boyle to-gederys, & put ]>er-to 
creme, (& jif it be clowtys, draw it J^orwe a straynoure,) & jolkys of Eyroun, 
& melle hem to-gederys, & pore j^e licoure J^at J^e Marow was sojjyn yn 
]>er-to; ]?an make fayre cofyns of fayre past, & put j^e Marow ]>er-jn, & 
mynce datys, & strawberys in tyme of jere, & put ]>e cofyns ^in ]7e ovyn, 
& late hem harde a lytel ; ]7an take hem owt, & put ]>e licoure };er-to, & late 
hem bake, & senie f[orth]. 

.V. A-nother manere.— Take Pike, Almaunde Milke, & boyle yt j^ikkc, & 
let it kele ; |?an take Eyroun & chese, & grynd y-fere, & do ]'er-to ; take 
ponder Sugre & caste ]7er-to, & put in j^iu cofyns, & nojt y-helyd, & bake, 
& serue fj_orth]. 

.vj. Tartes of Fyssche. — Take Eygys, & Roysoynys, & pike an sethe in 
"Wyne ; )7an take Costardys, Perys, & pare hem clene, & pike out ]>e core, & 
putte hem in a morter ^x^th ]>e frute ; j^en tak Codlyng or haddok, ojier Elys, 
& se]7e hem & pike owt ]>e bonys, & grynd alle y-fere, & do j^er-to a lytel 
wyne, & melle to-gederys : an do j^er-to Canelle, Clowys, Macej, Quybibej, 
1 If. 37 bk. 2 Lids. 3 leaf 38. 



48 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. DYUERSE BAKE METIS. 

ponder Gyngere, & of Galyngale, & pepir, & Eoysonys of coraunce, and coloure 
it v^ith Safroun. When ]io\i makyst ]?in cofyns, J'an take gode fat Ele, & 
culpe hym, & take owt j^e stonys of Datys, & farce hem ; & blaunche 
Almanndys, & caste J'er-to ; but fp'ste frye hem in Oyle, & couche al Jiis 
a-mong, & bete ]>m cofyns vrith ]>e ledys, & bake, & serue forth. 

.vij. Chawettys. — Take buttys of Vele, & mynce hem smal, or Porke, & 
put on a potto; take Wyne, & caste ]^cr-to pouder of Gyngere, Pepir, & 
Safroun, & Salt, & a lytel verj^ous,^ & do hetn in a cofyn wetA jolkys of 
Eyroun, & kutte Datys & Eoysonys of Coraunce, Clowys, Macej, & fen ceuere 
]>m cofyn, &. Lat it bake tyl it be y-now. 

•Viij. Chawettys. — Take Porke y-sode, & mencyd Datys, and grynd hem 
smal to-gederys ; take jolkys of Ep-oun, & putte j^er-to a gode hepe, & grene 
chese putte J>er-to ; & whan it ys smal y-now, take Gyngere, Cauelle, & 
melle wyl fi commade fev-with, & put in Jjin cofyns ; jjan take jolkys of 
Eyroun ^hard y-sothe, an kerue hem in two, & ley a-boue, & bake hem ; & 
so nojt y-closyd, s^rue forth. 

.ix. Malmenye Furnej. — Take gode Milke of Almaundys, & flowre of Rys, 
& gode Wyne crete, or ]>e brawn of a Capoune, o]7er of Fesaunte, & Sugre, 
& pouder Gyngere, & Galyngale, & of Canelle, & boyle y-fere ; & make it 
chargeaunt, & coloure it with Alkenade, ofer-with Saunderys ; & jif it be lied, 
a-lye it w«tA jolkys of Eyroun ; & make smal cofyns of dow, & coloure 
hem w?tA-owte, & bake on an ovyn, & coloure w^'t/«-ynne & wyth-oute; 
Jjen haue Hony y-boylid hote, & take a dyssche, & wete |iin dyssche in fe 
hony, & w?'t// fe wete dyssche ley j^e malmenye & ]>e cofyns ; & whan ]>ej 
ben bake, & ]70u dressest yn, caste a-boue blaunche pouder, Quybibej, macej, 
Gelofrej ; & Jeanne serue it forth. 

.X. Rapeye. — Take Dow, & make J^er-of a brode J^in cake ; Jien take Fygys 
& Eoysonys smal y-grounde, & fyrst y-sode. An a pece of Milwelle or lenge 
y-braid wtth-al; & take pouder of Pepir, Galyngale, Clowej, & mence to- 
gedere, & ley Jiin comede on fe cake in ]>e manor of a benecodde, y-rollyd 
with jjin bond ; Jian ouer-caste thy cake oMer ]>i comade, as it wol by-clippe 
hit ; & with a sawcere brerde go round as J^e comade lyith, & kutte hem, 
& so he is kut & close with-al, & bake or frye it, & Jianne serue it forth. 

•xj . Tartes of Frute in lente. — Take Fygys & sethe hem wyl tyl fej ben 
neyssche ; J^an bray hem in a morter, & a pece of Milwel ]>er-with ; take 
ham vppe & caste roysonys of coraunce fer-to ; fan take Almaundys & Dates ^ 
1 verjuice. - If. 38 bk. ^ ' & Dates ' interlined by a later band. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. VYAUNDE FURNEZ. 49 

y-schred ]>er-to; ]>ini take pouder of Pepir & meng with-al; ])en putte it on 
j^in cofynne, & Safroun J^in cofynn a-boue, & opyn hem a-bowte J^e 
myddel ; & ouer-cast j^e openyng vppon j>e lede/ & bake hym a lytel, & 
serue f[ortb]. 

Ixij. Vn Vyaunde Furnej san? nonm de chare. — Take stronge Dow, & 
make a cake sumdele J'icke, & make it tow ; ]?an take lardej of Venysoun, or 
a here, or of a Bere, & kerue hem j^inne as Fylettes of Porke, & lay ])m 
lardys square as a chekyr, & ley J^er-yppe a tyne y-makyd of Eyroun vppe- 
on ]>e tyne ; ley J^in farsure, y-makyd of Hennys, & of Porke, of Eyroun, & 
myid brede, & Salt, & chese, yf jjou it hast; & ]>at it be makkyd at .iiij. 
tymes. Eyrst make Jjus fin whyte farsure : grynd in a mortere, Gyngere, 
Canelle, Galyngale ; take then almaundys & floure of Rys, and a party of 
Fleysshe, & caste ther-to in a mortere, & grynd ryjth smal, & temper it 
w/tA Eyroun. J^us make }in ^elow Farsure : nym Safroun, Gyngere, Canel, 
Galyngale, Brede, & a partye of J7in Fleyssche, & grynd it smal in J>e 
mortere, & temper it vppe with Eyroun. The ]>rjd maner schal ben blake : 
nym Gyngere, Canelle, Galyngale, Brede, Eyroun, & Old chese ; nym Jian 
Percely, & grynd it smal in a mortere, & wryng it & do it vppe ; & do it 
to j^in Fleyssche, & ]>eT-with coloure j^in fayre partye of Fleyssche, & ley a 
party of Jiin Fleyssche on .iiij. quarterys, but ]>&t ]>e brede be as ]>ivL cake • 
take ]>en & ley ]jer-vppe-on J'in Fleyssche, & lay J^er-yppe-on a grece ; a-boue 
]>m grece ley ]>i cyrey ; nym ]7in J^ridde cours of J^in Flessche, & lay as 
brode as jjin cake, & j>an grece, & ]7er a-bouyn, a cyvey. ^ley Jie iiij. course 
of j^in Fleyssche on .iiij. quarterys as brode as ]>m cake, & )7an grece, & 
J'an a-boue, a cyuey. The .v. cours of j^in Fleyssche, ley as brode as J^ine 
cake, & J^en grece, & jian aboue, a cyuey. I^ym J»e .vj. cours, & lay as brode 
as J^in cake, & J'an grece, & J^an a cyuey. Nym Je .viij. cours of ]>e 
Fleysshe, & lay as brode as j^in cake on .iiij. quarterys, & grece, & J^an a 
cyvey ; & a lytel bake hem, & serue forth. 

Ixiij. Vn Vyaunde furnez san^ no?« de chare. — Take flowre, Almaunde 
milke, & Safroune, & make J^er-of .iiij. tynez, & fiye j^i tynez in Oyle ; nym 
\>en Almaundys, & draw J^er-of mylke ryjt ]?ikke ; nym macej, Quybibej, & 
floure of Rys, Canelle, Galyngale; take j^enne haddok, Creuej, Perchys, 
Tenchej, & se]>e; whan ]>ej ben sothyn, take Jiin fyssche from ])e bonys> 
& bray it ryjt smal -with I'in Spicerye to-gederys, & make jjer-of ]?in 
farsure. Whan it is y-makyd, departe it in .iiij. partyis, ]?at o partye 

' lid. ■ leaf 39. 3 leaf 39 back. 

4 



50 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. VYAUNDE EURNEZ. 

■vrhyte, J^at oj^er jelow, ]>e Jirydde grene, J^e ferj^e blak coloure -with Tygys, 
Eoysonys, an Datys ; take J^e firste cours of ]>o Tyssche, of al jie .iiij. 
cours, & ley on ]>m cyvey a-bouyn J^in Fyssclie, in .iiij. quarterys, as a 
cliekyr, as brode as jjin cake, & caste a-bouyn Sugre of Alysaundre, & 
J>er-vppe-on Jjine tyne. Nym an-o]7er cours, & ley on J^i .iiij. quarterys 
as brode as J^in tyne, & j7er-vppe-[on] J^in Sugre. Nym ])e Jirydde cours 
of J^in Fysscbe, & ley on .iiij. quarterys, & caste a-boue Sugre, & a tyne. 
Nym [J'e] .iiij. cours a-cordant to Jiin oj^er, a-]7enched^ to-geder, an a-boue 
a hole as a rose, & cetera. 

.xiiij. Pety Pernollys. — Take fayre Floure, Safroun, Sugre, & Salt, & 
make Jier-of past ; j^an make smal cofyns ; J^en take jolkys of Eyroun, & tiye 
hem fro ]>e whyte ; & lat J'e jolkys be al hole, & nojt to-broke, & ley .iij. 
or .iiij. zolkys in a cofyn ; and j^an take marow of bonys, to or .iij. 
gobettys, & cowche in ]>e cofynn ; ]>an take ponder Gyngere, Sugre, 
Koysonys of corauwce, & caste a-boue ; & j^an kyuere J^in cofyn with jie 
same past, & bake hem, & frye hem in fayre grece, & serue f[orth]. 

.XV. Doucetej. — Take Creme a gode cupfulle, & put it on a straynoure ; 
fanne take jolkys of Eyroun & put J^er-to, & a lytel mylke ; \>en. strayne it 
]7orw a straynoure in-to a bolle; j^en take Sugre y-now,' & put Jier-to, or 
ellys hony forde faute* of Sugre, ]ian coloure it -with Safroun ; J^an take°])in 
cofyns, & put in ]>e ovynne lere, & lat hem ben hardyd ; J^an take a dysshe 
y-fastenyd on ])e pelys ende ; & pore j^in comade in-to j^e dyssche, & fro ])e 
dyssche in-to ]>e cofyns ; & when j^ey don a-ryse wel, take hem out, & serue 
hem forth. 

.xyj. Crustade. — Take vele, an smyte in lytel pecys in-to a potte, an 
wayssche yt fayre ; );an take fayre water, & lat yt boyle to-gedere with 
Percely, Sawge, Sauerey, & Tsope smal y-now an hew; & whan it is on 
boylyng, take ponder Peper, CaneH, Clowys, Maces, Safroun, & lat hem 
boyle to-gederys, & a gode dele of wyne ])er-with. "Whan Jie fleyssche is 
y-boylid, take it fro ]>e broj^e al clene, & lat ]>e bro]je kele ; & whan it is 
cold, take Eyrouw, ]>e whyte & J^e jolkys, & cast ]7orw a straynoure, & put 
hem in-to the broj^e, so many J^at 'pe hrojie be styf y-now; J^en make fayre 
cofyns, & cowche .iij. pecys or .iiij. of ]>e fleyssche in a cofyn; J^an take 
Datys, & kytte hem, & cast J^er-to ; ]7an take ponder Gyngere, & a lytel 
verious, & putte in-to j^e broj^e & Salt ; & J^an putte ]>e bro}7e on J^e cofyns, 
bake a lytel with j^e fleyssche or ]iou putte jjin lycoure Jjer-on, & lat al 

^ r pinched, A. reads, " a-J^enched to-gedre aboue a hole, as arose." ^ leaf 40. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. VYAUNDE FURNEZ. 51 

bake to-gederjs tyl it be y-now ; Jeanne [take] yt owt, and serue 
hem forth. 

.xvij. Crustade lumbard. — Take gode Creme, & leuys of Percely, & 
Eyroun, ]>g jolkys & ]>g Tvhyte, & breke hem J^er-to, & strayne ]7orwe a 
straynoure, tyl it be so styf j^at it wol here hym-self; ]7an take fayre 
Marwe, & Datys y-cutte in .ij. or .iij. & Prune j; & putte J^e Datys an^ Jje 
Prunej & Marwe ou a fayre cofynne, y-mad of fayre past, & put J^e cofyn 
on J^e ovyn tyl it be a lytel hard ; Jeanne draw hem out of j^e ouyn ; take ];e 
lycour & putte J^er-on, & fylle it vppe, & caste Sugre y-now on, & Salt ' 
j>aii lat bake to-gederys tyl it be y-now ; & jif it be in lente, lef Jje Eyrou?^ 
& fe Marwe out, - & Jeanne serue it forth. 

.xviij. Flathons. — Take Milke an plkys of Eyrou??, & draw it ]>otw a 
straynoure w?'t/i whyte Sugre, oj^er blake Sugre, & mylt fayre hotter, & putte 
j'er-to, & Salt ; & make fayre cofyns, & sette hem on ]>e ouen tyl ]>ey ben 
hard; j^an take a pele with a dyssche on j^e ende, & fylle ]>e dyssche -with 
)7in comade, & pore in-to j?e cofyns, & lat bake a lytel whyle ; l^an take hem 
out in-to a fayre dyssch, & cast whyte sugre j^er-on, & serue forth. 

.xix. Venyson y-bake. — Take hoghes of Venyson), & parboyle hem in 
fayre "Water an Salt ; & whan ])e Fleyssche is fayre y-boylid, make fayre 
past, & cast J'in Venyson Jier-on ; & caste a-boue an be-ne|'e, ponder Pepir, 
Gyngere, & Salt, & |?an sette it oiD j^e ouyn, & lat bake, & sei-ue forth. 

.XX. Pety Pernauntes. — Take fayre Plowre, Sugre, Safroun, an Salt, & 
make J^er-offe fayre past & fayre cofynges ; j^an take fayre y-tryid jolkys 
Raw, & Sugre, an pouder Gyngere, & Raysounys of Coraunce, & myncyd 
Datys, but not to smal ; ]>an caste al Jpis on a fayre bolle, & melle al to- 
gederys, & put in f>in cofyn, & lat bake ojjer Frye in Freyssche grece. 

.xxj. Q,uyncis or Wardowns in past. — Take & make fayre Rounde cofyns 
of fayre past ; J^an take fayre Raw Quynces, & pare hem with a knyf, & take 
fayre out ]>e core ]>er-oi ; J;an take Sugre y-now, & a lytel pouder Gyngere, 
& stoppe ]>e hole fulle; & cowche .ij. or .iij. wardonys or quyncej in a 
cofyn, & keuere hem, & lat hem bake ; & for defaut of Sugre, take hony ; but 
j^en putte pouder Pepir J?er-on, & Gyngere, in J^e manor be-for sayd. 

.xxij. Lamprojms y-bake. — Take lamprounys & skald hem with [blank in 
MS.^, & make fayre paste, & couche .ij. or iij lamprounys with pouder of 
Gyngere, Salt, Pepir, & lat hem bake; & leche ^Samoun in fayre brode 
pecys, & bake hem in ])e maner be-forsayd, & Jeanne serue forth. 
1 MS. in. 2 leaf 40, back. 3 jeaf 41. 



52 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. VYAUNDE FURNEZ. 

.xxiij. Lamprays bake. — Take & make fayre round cofyns of fyne past, 
& take Freyssche lampreys, & late hem blode .iij. fyngerys witA-in ]>e tayle, 
& lat hem blede in a vesselle, & late hym deye in ]>e same vesselle in J;e same 
blode ; jian take broun Brede, & kyt it, & stepe it in j^e Yenegre, & draw 
Jporw a straynoure ; J^an take j^e same blode, & ponder of Canel, & cast 
J?er-to tyl it be brouw ; J^an caste J^er-to ponder Pepii', Salt, & Wyne a lytelle, 
fat it be nojt to strong of venegre. An skald ]7e Lampray, & pare hem clene, 
& conche hym ronnd on J^e cofyn, tyl he be helyd;' j^an kyuere hym fayre 
^y^th a lede, sane a lytel hole in ]?e myddelle, & at^ ]7at hool, blow in ]>e 
cofynne with ym mowj^e a gode blast of Wynde. And sodenly stoppe j^e 
hole, ]7at )>e wynd a-byde w/t/«-ynne, to reyse vppe J^e cofynne, J^at he falle 
nowt a-dowune ; & whan he is a lytel y-hardid in ]7e ouen, pryke ])e cofyn 
with a pynne y-stekyd on a roddys ende, for brekyng of J'e cofynne, & J'an 
lat bake, & serue forth colde. And when ]>e lamprey is take owt of ]>e 
cofynne & etyn, take ]>e Syrippe in jie cofynne, & put on a chargere, & caste 
Wyne j^er-to, an ponder Gyngere, & lat boyle in ])e fyre. Than take fayre 
Paynemayn y-wette in Wyne, & ley J^e soppis in J'e cofynne of J'e lamprey, 
& ley Je Syrippe a-boue, & ete it so hot ; for it is gode lordys mete. 

.xxiiij. Tarti?s de chare. — Take Freyssche Porke, & hew it ; & grynd it in 
a mortere, & take it vppe in-to a fayre vesselle ; & take Je whyte of Eyrouw & 
J'e jolke, y-tryid J'orw a straynoure ; & temper Jiin porke ])eT-with ; & J^an 
take Pynej, & Raysonys of Coraunce, & frye hem in Freyssche grece, & 
caste ]>er-to ^pouder Pepir & Gyngere, Canel, Sugre, Safroun, Salt, & caste 
Jii?r-to; & do it on a cofynne, & plante J^e cofynne a-boue with Prunej, & 
with Datys, & gret Eoysonys of Coraunce, & smal Byrdys, or ellys harde 
^olkys of Eyroun; & yf J^ow tage* Byrdys, fiye hem in grece or Jiou putte 
hem in J^e cofyn) ; & Jian keuere Jiin cofynne ; & J'an endore it with jolkys of 
Eyroun, & with Safroune, & late yt bake tyll it be y-now; & J^an serue 
forth. 

.XXV. Rastons. — Take fayre Flowre, & J^e whyte of Eyroun, & ]>e jolke, a 
lytel; Jjan take "Warme Berme, & putte al J^es to-gederys, & bete hem to- 
gederys with J'in bond tyl it be schort & J7ikke y-now, & caste Sugre y-now 
J'^r-to, & J^enne lat reste a whyle ; fan kaste in a fayre place in j^e oven, & 
late bake y-now ; & Jjen with a knyf cutte yt round a-boue in maner of a 
crowne, & kepe J^e cruste J^at J^ou kyttyst ; & J^an pyke al J'e cromys with- 
ynne to-gederys, an pike hem smal with j^in knyf, & sane J^e sydys & al J^e 

1 covered. ^ jj^rl. ellys. A. eH, altered to at. ^ If. 41, bk. * take. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. VYAUNDE FUUNEZ. 53 

cruste hole w/t^-owte ; & j^an caste J^er-in clarifiyd Boter, & Mille ^ ]7e cromej 
& ]7e - botere to-gedcrej, & keuere it a-jen with ]>e cruste, ]/at ]>o\i kyttest 
a- way ; J7an putte it in j^e ovyn ajen a lytil tyme ; & ]^aii take it out, & serue 
it fortH. 

.xxvj. Darioles. — Take "Wyne, an Freyssclie broj^e, & Clowes, & Maces, & 
Marwe, pouder Gyngere, Safroun, & lat al boyle to-gederys, & Creme, (jif it 
be clowty, draw it j^orw a straynoure,) & jolkys of Eyroun, & melle hem 
to-gederys, & pore ]>e lycoure J>at J^e marwe was sothe in, ]>er-to ; J^en 
make fayre cofyns, & put ]>e Marwe ]>er-m, & mence Datis, & Strawberys 
in tyme of jere, & sette ]>e cofyns^ in J^e ovenne, & lat hem hard a lytelle, 
& take hem out, & put ]>e lycoure ])er-to, & lat bake ; & serue forth. 

.xxvij. Pyej de parej. — Take & smyte fayre buttys of Porke, & buttys 
of Vele, to-gederys, & put it on a fayre potte, & do }^er-to Freyssche ^broj'e, 
& a quantyte of wyne, & lat boyle alle to-gederys tyl yt be y-now ; ]?an take 
it fro j^e fyre, & lat kele a lytelle ; J^an caste ]>er-to jolkys of Eyroun, & 
pouder of. Gyngere, Sugre, & Salt, & mynced Datys, & Roysonys of 
Coraunce ; J^en make fayre past, and cofynnys, & do ]7er-on ; kyuer it, & 
let bake, & serue f[orth]. 

•xxviij. Potrous. — Take a schouyl of yron), & hete it brennyng hote ; & 
)?an take it owt of j^e fyre, & fille it fuUe of Salt ; J^an make a pitte in ]>e 
Salt al holow, J^e schap of a treen dyssche ; & sette }e panne & ]ie Salt 
ouer ]>e fyre a-jen, tyl ]>e Salt be brennyng hote ; & ]7an caste J^in whyte 
& ])e jolkys of Eyroun in-to ]>e hole of J7e Salte, & lat sej^e ouer fe fyre tyl 
it be half harde ; & J^an put a dyssche half fuUe of Salt ; & J^an take a 
dressoure knyf, & put vndernej^e J^e Salt in J^e panne, & hef^ it vppe so fayre, 
fat ]>e cofyn with ]>e Eyroun breke nojt; J^an sette it on \)e dyssche wyth 
])e Salt, & Jjan serue it forth. 

.xxix. Flampoyntes bake. — Take fayre Buttes of Porke, & sej^e hem in 
fayre "Watere, & clene pyke a- way j^e bonys & ]>e Synewes, & hew hem & 
grynd hem in a mortere, & temper with ])e Whyte of Eyrown, & Sugre, & 
pouder of Pepir, & Gyngere, & Salt; ]>an take neyssche Cruddis, grynd hem, 
& draw ]>OTW a straynoure ; & caste ]^er-to Aneys, Salt, pouder Gyngere, 
Sugre; & j^an take ]7e StufFe of ]>e Porke, & putte it on euelong cofyn of 
fayre past ; & take a fej^er, & endore J^e Stuffe in ]>e cofyn with ]>e cruddys ; 
tS: whan it is bake, take Pynej, & clowys, & plante j^e cofyn a-boue, a rew 
of on, & rew of a-no]7er ; & j^an serue f[orth]. 
* melle A. (mk). ^ MS. >e ye. ^ Cofyns A., fyre Harl. * leaf 42. * Heave; lift. 



54 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. VYAUNDE FURNEZ. 

.XXX. Sewtrappe. — Take .ij. lytel erj^en pannys, & sette on J^e colys^ tyl 
fej ben hote ; make a dyssclie-fulle of j^ikke bature of Floure & AYatere ; take 
& grace a lytel J7at oj^er panne, & do ]ie bater J^er-on ; & lat renne al a-bowte 
Jje panne, so Jiat ]>e pan be al ^y-helyd; take & sette j^e panne a-jen ouer J;e 
fyre of colys ; do ]>at oJ>er panne a-boue Jiat o]7er panne, tyl it be y-baken 
y-now ; whan it is y-bake, J^at it wol a-ryse fro ]>e eggys of j^e panne, take 
kydes Fleyssche & png porke, & hew it ; take Percely, ysope, & Sauerey 
[and hew hit]^ smal y-now ; & Jirow a-mong J^e Fleyssche ;■* & do it in a panne, 
& ]7e cofynne, do it to ]>e colys ; hele it w^t/^ j'at o}er panne, & do colys 
a-bouyn, & lat baken wyl ; whan it is y-now, take Eyroun, & broke hem ; 
take ])e pYkes, & draw J^orw a straynoure : caste to ]>e jolkys Hwyte Sugre, 
Gyngere, Canelle, Galyngale ; sture it wyl to-gederys ; take al J^is, & sette 
a-do2m J^e panne, & cast in a-bouyn J^e cofynne in ]?e panne : sture it 
to-gederys ; hele it ajenward w«tA J'at o|'er panne, & lay colys a-boue, & lat 
bake wyl tyl it be y-now ; take yt owt of ]>e panne, «S: do it out y-hole, or 
as moche as Jjow wolt, & )7anne serue it forth. 

.xxxj. Herbelade. — Take Buttes of Porke, & smyte hem in pecys, & sette 
it ouer J^e fyre ; & sej^e hem in fa5rre Waters ; & whan it is y-soj^e y-now, ley 
it on a fayre bord, & pyke owt alle J7e bonys, & hew it smal, & put it in a 
fayre bolle ; j^an take ysope, Sawge, Percely a gode quantite, Sc hew it smal, 
& putte it on a fayre vesselle ; Jian take a lytel of ]>e broj^e, ]?at ]>e porke was 
sojiia in, & draw ]?orw a straynoure, & caste to ]>g Erbys, & jif it a boyle ; ]ierme 
take owt ])e Erbys with a Skymoure fro J^e bro|ie, & caste hem to ]>e Porke in 
J^e bolle ; J^an mynce Datys smal, & caste hem ]^er-to, & Roysonys of Coraunce, 
& Pynej, & drawe ]7orw a straynoure jolkys of Eyroun ]>er-to, & Sugre, & 
ponder Gyngere, & Salt, & coloure it a lytel •with Safroune ; & toyle yt 'with 
]>iii bond al J^es to-gederys ; J^an make fayre round cofyns, & harde hem 
a lytel in ])e ovyn ; )>an take hem owt, & wyth a ^ dyssche in ]>m bond, fylle 
hem fulle of ]ie Stuffe ; ]?an sette hem J^er-in a-jen ; & lat hem bake y-now, 
& serue forth. 

.xxxij. A bake Mete. — Take an make fayre lytel cofyns; ]7an take Perys, 
& ^if J^ey ben lytelle, put .iij. in a cofynne, & pare clone, & be-twyn eueiy 
pere, ley a gobet of Marow ; & yf )70u haue no lytel Perys, take grete, & gobet 
ham, & so put hem in j;e ovyn a whyle ; fan take Jin commade lyke as ]>ou 

1 A. on ye cohjs, Harl. vp colde. ^ leaf 42 back. ^ Added from A. 

* A. adds " [take salt aud do ]^(??--to, take the fleysslie] and do hit on J^e panne." 
5 leaf 43. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARLEIAN MS. 279. VYAUNDE FURNEZ. 55 

takyst to Dowcetys, & pore j>er-on ; but lat j^e Marow & ]>e Pecyj ^ ben sene ; 
& whan it is y-now, serue f[orth]. 

.xxxiij. A bake Mete Ryalle. — Take & make litel cofyns, & take 
Chykonys y-so]7e ; ojier Porke y-so]7e, & smale y-hackyd ; o]>er of hem boj^e : 
take Clowys, Maces, Quybibes, & hakke w?tA-alle, & melle yt 'with cromyd 
Marow, & lay on Sugre y-now ; ]^an ley it on J'e cofynne, & in j^e myddel 
lay a gobet of marow, & Sugre round a-bowte y-now, & lat bake ; & J^is 
is for sopeiys. 

.xxxiiij. Crustade Ryal. — Take & pyke owt \>e marow of bonys as hool 
as J»ou may ; fen take ]>e bonys, an se'pe hem in Watere, or^ that J^e broj^e be 
fat y-now ; Jien take Almaundys, & wayssche hem clene, & bray hem, & 
temper hem vppe -with J'e fat broj^e; j^an wyl J^e mylke be broun; J>en take 
pouder Canelle, Gyngere, & Sugre, & caste J>er-on ; J'an take & make fayre 
cofyns, & lat hem hard in ]>e ovyn ; l^an take Roysonys of coraunce, & ley in 
j^e cofynne, & taylid Datys y-kyt a-long ; ]>eii take Eyroun a fewe, y-straynid, 
& swenge a-mong j>e Milke ]?e jolke ; ]>en take the botmon of ]>e cofynne j^er 
j>e Marow schal stonde, & steke ]>er gret an long gobettys jier-on vppe- 
ryjt, & lat bake a whyle ; J^en pore J^in comade )7er-on halful, & lat bake >' 
& whan yt A-rysith, it is y-now ; j^en serue forth. 

.XXXV. Crustade. — Take a cofyn, & bake hym drye ; J^en take Marw- 
^bonys & do J^er-in; J^enne nym hard plkys of Eyroun, & grynde hem smal, 
& lye hem vppe with Milke ; J'an nym raw jolkys of Eyro^m, & melle hem 
a-mong chikonys y-smete, & do Jier-inne ; & yf j^ou luste, Smal birdys; & 
a-force wyl Jiin comade -with Sugre or hony ; J^an take clowys, Macej, Pepir, 
& Safron), & put fier-to, & salt yt ; & ]>an bake, & serue forth. 

.xxxvj. Crustade gentyle. — Take a Cofyn y-bake; j^an grynd Porke or 
Vele smal -with harde jolkys ^ of Eyroun ; ]>an lye it with Almaunde Milke, 
& make hem stondyng ; take Marow of bonys, & ley on J^e cofynne, & fylle 
hem fulle with J^in comade, & serue f[orth]. 

.xxxvij. Doucettes. — Take Porke, & hakke it smal, & Eyroun y-mellyd 
to-gederys, & a lytel Milke, & melle hem to-gederys with Hony & Pepir, & 
bake hem in a cofyn, & serue forth. 

.xxxviij. Doucettes a-forcyd. — Take Almaunde Milke, & jolkys of Eyroun 
y-melled to-gederys, Safroun, Salt, & hony ; dry jjin cofyn, & ley fin Mari- 
bonys fer-on, & caste fin comade j^er-on, & serue f[orth.]. 

.xxxix. Daryoles. — Take Milke an Eyroun, & ]>e fatte of }e Freyssche 

1 A. perys. '^ A. til that. ^ jg^f 43 back. * A. adds and rawe polices. 



56 COOKERY BOOK. 1. HARLEIAX MS. 279. VYAUNDE FURNEZ, 

broj^e, Pepir, & Safroun, & Hony ; dry J^in cofyn, & caste J^in comade ^er-on, 
& seme forth. 

.xl. Daryoles. — Take croddys of j^e deye, & Tvryng owt ]>e whey ; & take 
^olkys of Eyroun nowt to fewe, ne nojt to many, and strayne hem bo]7e to- 
gederys jiorw a straynot<r, & j'an hard )iin cofynne, & ley ym marew j^er-in ; 
& pore J'in comade J^^r-on, an bake hem, & serue hem forth. 

.xlj. Flathouns m lente. — Take & draw a j^rifty Milke of Almawdes; 
temper with Sugre Water ; Jjan take hardid cofyns, & pore ])in comad ]7er-on ; 
blaunche Almaundis hoi, & caste ther-on Ponder Gyngere, Canelle, Sugre, 
Salt, & Safrown ; bake hem, & serue f [orth]. 

Amen. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARL. 279. HENRY IV.'s CORONATION FEAST. 57 



[' CONUIUIA 

Quaedam Antiqua, viz. 

Conuiuium 

1. Regis H. 4. in coronatione sua A" D"^*- 1399. apud Wee.tmonasterium. 

2. Conuiuium Eegis supradicti in nuptiis A" D°*- apud Wynton/«/rt. 

3. Conuiuium Domini de La Grey, incerti temporis. 

4. Conuiuium Ricardi Flemming Episcopi Lincolniensis, incerti temporis : 

ille tamen ibidem Episcopus institutus a Papa A" D° 1420, circa 
annum nonuwj Regis H. 5. 

5. Conuiuium ad funeralia Nicholai Bubbewith, Episcopi Bathonensi's et 

Wellensw, die 4° Dec. A" D" 1424, a" 3° H. 6. 

6. Conuiuium Johannis Stafford, qui successit Nicholao Bubbewith proefato, 

in inductu suo ad Episcopatum Bathonensis et "Wellensjs, die 16 Sept. 
A" D° 1425. 

7. Conuiuium in nuptijs Comitia Devonise, incerti temporis.] 



[Earl. 279, kafiS.] 

Comiiuimn dommi Henrifi Regis quarti, In coronacione sua apud 

Weatmonasterium. ^ 

Le pn'mer cours. Heroun. 

Braun en peu^rarde. Crustade Lumbarde. 

Viaund Ryal. Storieoun, graunt luces. 

Teste de senglere enarmej. -^ Sotelte. 
Graund chare. I^e .ij. COurs. 

Syngnettys. 

^ :, ■, , Venyson en furmenty. 

Capoun de haut grace. ^ i^ 

Eesaunte. 



Gely. 



1 Leaf 57. This Contents (between square brackets) is in a much later hand, probably 
18th century. 
- Did Chaucer get any of it, in return for his humorous Furse appeal ? 
3 A. en 



58 COOKERY BOOK. I. HARL. 279. HENRY IV.'s CORONATION FEAST. 



Porcelle farce enforce. 

Pokokkys. 

Cranys. 

Venyson Eoste. 

Conyng. 

Byttore. 

Pulle endore. 

Graunt tartez. 

Braun fryez. 

Leche lumbarde. 

A Sotelte. 

Le .iij. cours. 
Blaundesorye. 
Quyncys in comfyte. 
Egretez. 

Curlewys. 



Pertryche. 

Pyionys. 

Quaylys. 

Snytys. 

Smal byrdys. 

Babettys. 

Pome dorreng. 

Braun blanke leche. 

Eyroun engele.^ 

Frytourys. 

Doucettys. 

Pety perneux. 

Egle. 

Pottys of lylye. 

A Sotelte. 



Conuiuiuw Regis sup/-adicti in nnpcijs apud Wyntonw?/!. 



le .j. cours. 

Fylettys in galentyne. 

Yyaund Ryalle. 

Grosse chare. 

Signettys. 

Capoun of liaut grece. 

Fesauntys. [leafio, back.] 

Chewetys. 

A Sotelte. 

Le .ij. cours. 

Yenyson -with furmente. Potage. 

Gelye. 

Porcellys. 

Conynge. 

Bittore. 

Pulcynges farcej. 

Pertryche. 

Leche fryez. 

Braun bruse. 

A Sotelte. 



Le .iij. cours 

Creme de Almaundys. 

Perys in Syryppe. 

Venyson Bostyd. 

Kyde. 

Wodecokke. 

Plouere. 

Rabettys. 

Quaylys. 

Snytys. 

Feldefare. 

Smale byrdys. 

Crustade. 

Sturgeown. 

Fretoure. 

A Sotelte. 

Ibidem cowuiuium de pissibus. 
Le .j. cours. 
Vyaund Ryal. 
Sew lumbarde. 
iced eggs. 



COOKERY BOOK. I. HARL. 279. HENRY IV. 's WEDDING FEAST. 59 



Salt Fysshe. 

Laumpreys pouderyd. 

Pyke. 

Breme. 

Samoun Rostyd. 

Crustade Lumbarde. 

A sotelte. 

Le .ij. cours. 

Purpayis en furmente. 

Gely. " 

Breme. 

Samoun. 

Congre. 

Gurnarde. 

Plays. 

Lampreys in past. 

Leche fryez. 

Panteryse. 

Coronys for a sotelte. 

Le .iij. cours. 
Creme of Almaunde. 
Perys in syrippe. 
Tenche enbrace. 
Troutez. 

Floundrys fryid. [/ea/46.] 
Perchys. 

Lamprey Rostyd. 
Elys Eostyd. 
Lochys & colys. 



Sturioun, 

Crabbe au Creueys. 

Graspeys. 

Egle coronys in sotelte. 



In Festo Sancte Trinitatis in cena. 

Le .j. cours. 
Brewys. 

Chykonys y-boylid. 
Pygge en Sage. 
Spaulde de Motoun. 
Capoun Rostyd. 
Pastelade. 

Le .ij. cours. 

Venysoun en bro]je. 

Kyde Rostyd. 

Heronsewys. 

Peioun. 

Venysoun Rostyd. 

Rabettys. 

Pety perneux. 

Le iij. cours. 

Gely. 

Quaylys. 

Samaca. 

Pescodde. 

Blaunderellys. 

Strawberys. 



Le .j. cours 

Rys Moleynj. 
Vyaunde bruyse. 
Bakunde Heryng. 
Gros Salt fysshe. 
Salt Samoun. 
Salt Elys. 



Conuiuium domini de la Grey. 

Eryid Marlyng. 
Grete Pyke. 
Bakyn Elys. 

Le .ij. cours. 
Compost ) 

Brode canelle. ) 
Codlyng. 



Potase. 



60 1. HARL. 279. FEASTS OF LORD DE GREY AND BP. OF LINCOLN. 



Ruchet. 
Eochys. 
Cheueyne. 
Flampoyne. 
Halybutte. 
Plays fry id. 
Trayne Roste. 
Vn Lechemete. 

Le .iij. cours. 

Gelye. [Ieafi6, back.] 
Creme of Almaundys. 



Trowtys. 

Storione. 

Purpays. 

"Wylkys. 

Elys & Lamprouns Rostyd. 

Tenche. 

Perche. 

Breme de Mere. 

Pyuenade in paste. 

Leche lumbarde. 

Chesmeyne. 



ConuiuiuM Flemmynge, 
Le .j. cours. 

Perrey fyn. \ 
Rapeye. j ^ ''^ ' 
Grete taylys of Milwelle, 
An lenge.' 
Samoun pollys. 
Salt Elys -with galentyne. 
Gode Pyke an fat. 
Grosse tartej. 

Le .ij. cours. 
Lampreys in galentyne. 
Vyand Ryal. 
Haddok. 
Gurnard. 
Plays. 
Halybutte. 



Lincohiiensis "Ei^iscopi. 
Elys an Lampronys Rostyd. 
Flampayn. 

Le .iij. cours. 
Mammenye. 
Creme de .ij. colourys. 
Troutys. 
Storioun. 
Samon freysslie. 
Perche. 
"Walkys. 
Breme de Mere. 
Crabbe. 

Purpeys Rostyd. 
Goions fryid. 
Doucetys. 



Conuiuiu?w Johannis Chaundelere, ^T^iscopi Saruw, in introitu episcopatus 

sui : in carnibus. 

Pomys en gele. [leafil.] 

Yn lechemete. 

Tart Ryal. 

Yn sotelte. Agnws dei. 



Le .j. cours. 

Furmenty en Yenyson. 

Yyaund cyprys. 

Capoun boilys. 

Swan. 

Fesaunt. 

Pecokke. 



Le .ij. cours. 

Yyaund Ryal. jp^^^g^^ 
Blandyssorye. ) 



i.e. " Great tails of Milwell and Ling : " see next page, col. 2, near foot. 



I. HARL, 279. FEASTS OF BPS. OF SALISBURY, & BATH & WELLS. 61 



Porcellys 

Kyde. 

Crane. 

Yenysoun Rostyd. 

Heronsewes. 

Pulsous farce. 

Pertryge. 

Vn leche. 

Crustade Ryal. 

Vn sotelte : a Lebarde. 

Le .iij. cours. 
]\raminenye Ryal. 

Yyand. 



Bittore. 

Curlewe. 

Pyioun. 

Eabettys. 

Doderellys. 

Quaylys. 

Larky s. 

Vyaunt Ardant. 

Yn lechemete. 

Frytourys Lunibard. 

Payn Puffe. 

Gele. 

Yn Sotelte : Aquila. 



Cowuiuium domini "Sicholai Bubbewyth, nup^;;- ei^iscopi Boihonensis & 
"WeWensis ad funeral/« ; videlic^'^, quarto die decembrits, anno domini 
Millesimo. CCCC™ vecessimo quarto : in carnibus : — 



Le .j. cours. 

Nomblys de E,oo. 

Blamangere. 

Braun, cum Mustard. 

Chynes de porke. 

Capoun Eoste de haut grece. 

Swan Eoste. 

Heroun Eostyd. 

Aloes de Eoo. 

Puddyng de Swan necks. 

Yn Lechemete. 

Yn bake, \idelicet Crustade. 

Le .ij. cours. 

Eg Styuyd. 

Mammenye. 

Connyng Eostyd. 

Curlew. 

Fesaunt Eostyd. 

Wodecokke Eoste. [leaf^l, bach.] 

Pertrycbe Eoste. 

Plouer Eoste. 



Snytys Eoste. 
Grete byrdes Eosted. 
Larkys Eostyd 
Yennysoun de Eo Eostyd. 
Yrcbouns. 
Yn leche. 
Payn puffe. 
Colde bakemete. 



Conuiuiuwi de piscibi<s pro viris 
Religios/s ad funerals predicts. 

Le .j. cours. 

Elys in sorry. 
Blamanger. 
Bakoun heryng. 
Mulwyl taylys. 
Lenge taylys. 
Jolly s of Samoun. 
Merlyng so]7e. 
Pyke. 
Grete Plays. 



62 



HARL 279. FEASTS OF THE BP. OF BATH AND WELLS. 



Leche barry. 
Crustade Ryal, 

Le .ij. cours. 

Mammenye. 

Crem of Almanndys. 

Codelyng. 

Haddok. 

Freysse hake. 

Solys y-so|7e. 



Gumyd broylid w/t/i a syryppe. 

Brem de Mere. 

Roche. 

Perche. 

Menus fryid. 

Trchouns. 

Elys y-rostyd. 

Leche lumbard. 

Grete Crabbys. 

A cold bakemete. 



Coiiuiuiu?« Johannis Staflforde, 'E'piscopi Wellensis in iwductu Ep2sco/;atus 
sui, videlicet .xyj.^ die Septembris, Anno domini millessimo CCCC™° 
vicessimo quinto [1425]. 



Le .j. cours. 
Furmenty with venysoun. 
Mammenye. 
Brawnne. 
Kede Roste. 
Capoun de haut Greee. 
Swan. 
Heyroun. 
Crane. 

A leche. [leaf 48.] 
Crustade Ryal. 
Frutoure Samata. 
A soltelte, a docter of lawe. 

Le .ij. cours. 

Blaunche Mortrewys. 

Vyand Ryal. 

Pecoke. 

Conyng. 

Fesaunte. 

Tele. 

Chykonys doryd. 

Pylons. 

Veysoun Rostyd. 

GuUys. 

Curlew. 



Cokyntryche. 
A leche. 

Pystelade chaud. 
Pystelade fryid. 
Frytoure damaske. 
A sotelte, Egle. 

Le .iij. cours. 
Gely. 

Creme Moundy. 
Pety Curlewe. 
Egret. 
Pertryche. 
Venysoun Roste. 
Plovere. 
Oxyn kyn. 
Quaylys. 
Snytys. 

Herte de Alouse. 
Smale byrdys. 
Dowcet Ryal. 
Petelade Fryid. 
Hyrchouns. 
Eggys Ryal. 
Pomys. 
Brawn fryid. 



I. HARL. 279. FEASTS OF BP. OF BATH & "WELLS, & LD. DEVONSHIRE. 63 



A sotelte, Sent Andrewe. Leche. 

j'rute. -^ bakemete. 
Waffrys. Iq ij. cours. 

^>^^^^^^- Mortrewys. 

Pro inferiori parte Aule, & in alijs , J^^^* 

locis. ^Conynge. 
reionys. 

Le .j. cours. Ckykons. 

Furmenty vfith venysoun. Venysoun Kosted. 

Mammenye. Leche. 

Brawn. Frutoure. 

Kede Roste. Bakemete chaud. 

Capoun. Bakemete fryid. 



A Ryal Fest in >e Feste 

Le .j. cours. 

Furmenty -with Venysoun. 

Yyand Goderygge. 

Yele Roste. 

Swan witA chawderoun.^ 

Pecokke. 

Crane. 

Vn leche. 

Yn Fryid mete. 

Yn pasty, cooperta. 

A sotelte: Ceruus. 

Le .ij. cours. 

Mammenye. 

Yyand Motlegfi. 

Kede. 

Conyng. 

Herons. 

Chykonys endoryd. 

Yenyson Rosted. 

I. leche. 

Yn Fryid mete. 

I. paste Crustade. 

1 leaf 48 back. ^ a 



at ])e weddyng of J?e Erie of Deuynchire. 

A colde Bakemete. 
A sotelte: Homo. 

Le .iij. cours. 
Gely. 

Datys in comfyte. 
Fesaunt. 
Gullys. 
Poper. 

Mawlard de la Ryuer. 
Peionys 
Pertryche. 
Curlew. 

Pomez endoryd. 
I. Leche. 
Payn PufFe. 
A sotelte : Arbor. 

Pro inferiori parte Auli. 
Le .j. cours. 

Yenyson en Broj^e. 
Spawdys^ de Motoun. 
Kyde. 
chaudewyne. ^ Spaut or Spaud, Shoulder. 



64 I. HARL. 279. THE EARL OF DEVONSHIRE'S WEDDING FEAST. 

Doke. Pyionys. 

Chykonys Roste. GuUys. 

Pygge in Sawge. E.abettys. 

Yenysoim bake.^ Venysoun Roste.* 

Le. ij. cours. Doucetys. 

Yn Leche.' 
Caudel Ferry. 

^ A. venysoune rostid. 

^ A. adds in syrup . 

^ A. adds ' mete,' and also adds Vnfryide mete after. 



[lEnt( of P?arl. iHS. 270.] 



65 



COOKERY BOOK II. 

HAELEIAN MS. 4016, ab. 1450 a.d. 



\_TJds Contents is not in the MS., but 

PAGE 

Hare in Wortes 69 

Buttered Wortes 69 

Cabochis 69 

Growelle fforce 70 

Nombles of Veneson 70 

Venysou in broth 70 

Furmenty witli venysoC 70 

Bourreys 70 

Mortreus de Chare 70 

Brawne in confite 71 

Brawue in confite 71 

Blaunche brawne 71 

Browne in egurdouce 71 

Brawne in peuard 71 

Garbage 72 

Pigge or chiken in Sauge 72 

Stwed Beeff 72 

Stwed Muttoii 72 

Capons Stwed 72 

Flathonys 73 

Venysou ybake 73 

Fruto«rs 73 

Longe Fnito?<>-s 73 

Pety pe/n antes 74 

Auter peti p? > nantes 74 

Custarde 74 

Custard himbarde 74 

Tartus of fflesh 74 

Lese fryes 75 

Auter Tartus 75 

Dariolles 75 

Pies of Parys 75 

Crete pyes 76 

Herbe-blade 76 

Chawdwyii 76 

Pikkyll T^oiiT le Mallard 77 

Sauce gameljTie 77 

Sauce sermstele . • 77 

Sauce oylepeu«r 77 

Sauce Yerte 77 

Sauce Gynger 77 



is made up from the titles therein.^ 

PAC5E 

Sauce Sorell 77 

Sauce galentyne 77 

Swaii rested 78 

Crane rested 78 

Fesaunte rested 78 

Partrich rested 78 

Partrich stwed 78 

Heron rested 78 

Bytor rosted 79 

Curlewe rosted 79 

Egrete rosted 79 

Brewe rosted 79 

Quayle rosted 79 

Pecok rosted 79 

Sorcell rosted 79 

Plouer 79 

Wodekok 80 

Snyte 80 

Conyng 80 

Conyng in Gravey 80 

Conyng or hen in clene broth ... 80 

Conyng, heii, or Mallard 80 

Gelyuf endobat 80 

Gelyne in brothe 81 

Eabette rosted 81 

Kede rosted 81 

Venyso«n rosted 81 

Vele rosted 81 

Chikfarsed 81 

Chike eudored 81 

Goce or Capon farced 81 

Pigge fEarced 82 

Felettes of Porke endored 82 

Felettes in galentyne 82 

Losinges de chare 82 

Tripe de Mutton 82 

Allowes de Mutton 83 

Browne fryes 83 

Payn purdeuz 83 

Perre 83 

Malasade 83 



66 



CONTENTS OF HARL. 4016. COOKERY BOOK II. 



PAGE 

Blaunde sorre 84 

Hagas de almoudes 84 

Hanouey 84 

Blamanger 85 

Bukuade 85 

Aiiter maner bukuade 85 

Brest de mottoil in sauce 85 

Eisshewes de Mary 85 

Lethe lory 85 

Tausey 86 

Proyse 86 

Gely 86 

[Guissell] 87 

Peris in Syrippe 87 

Peris in compost 87 

Chare de Wardone 88 

Mawmene 88 

Longe "Wortes de Peson« 89 

Elys in Sorre 89 

Ballok broth 89 

Soppes Dorre 90 

Soppes ])0>ir Chamberleyne .... 90 

Muscules in broth 90 

Muscules in Shelle 90 

Mortrewes of Pesyii 90 

Blanche porrey 90 

Caudell ffery 91 

Prenade 91 

Froyte de almondes 91 

Fried erenie de almondes 91 

Creme boiled 92 

Letlardes 92 

Leche lumbardc 92 

Autt'?- leche lumbard 93 

Cryspes 93 

Poterous 93 

Risshewes 93 

Potage de egges 94 

Taylo!(rs 94 

Malmens bastard 94 

Gyngautrey 94 

Fygey 94 

Chaudewyue 95 

Rapes 95 

lusshell 95 

Gele of peson 95 

Caudell 96 

Oyle soppes 96 

Caudell de Almondes 96 

Cheaut de Almondes 96 



PAGE 

Lente fFrutoi/rs 96 

[Lesenges Fries] 97 

[Risschewes de frute] 97 

[Trayne roste] 97 

Quynces or Wardones in paast ... 97 

Rastons 98 

Tart de ffruyte 98 

[Chewettes] 98 

Lamprey I-bake 98 

Sauce po»r lamprey 99 

Lamprey poudred 99 

Stokfissh in sauce 100 

Lamprons in Galentyne 100 

Lamprons ybake 100 

Oystres in g;-«uey 100 

Oystres in cevey 100 

Pike in galentyne 101 

Pike boyled 101 

Pike in brase 101 

Auti?;- pike in Galentyne 101 

Salmon fressh boiled 102 

Samou roste in Sauce 102 

Troute boyled 102 

Crabbe or Lopster boiled 102 

Perche boiled 102 

Floundres boiled 102 

Shrympes 103 

Breme or Roche boiled 103 

Breme rest ensauce 103 

Plaise boiled 103 

Ray boiled 103 

Sole, boiled, rost, or fryed .... 103 

Gurnard rested or boyled 103 

Anoj^er 104 

Menese or loche boiled 104 

Haddok or codlyng 104 

Barbell boyled 104 

Millet boyled 104 

Sturgeon boiled 104 

Sturgeon in broth 104 

SturgeoS po?<r porpeys 105 

Firmenty with porpeys 105 

Tenche in brase 105 

Another diting of a tenche .... 105 

Tm-but boyled 105 

Turbut roste ensauce 106 

Tripe de Turbut 106 

Welkes boyled 106 

Milkemete 106 

Chared coneys, or chard wardoii . . . 106 



67 



COOKERY BOOK 11. 

HARLEIAN MS. 4016, ab. 1450 a.d. 



^ [T]his is the purviaunce made for Kinge Richard, beings with J^e Due 
of lancastre at the Bisshoppes place of Durham at Londoiiig, the xxiii 
day of September, the yere of the kinge forsaid .xij./ [a.b. 1387.] 



First begvnuyng for a-chatry. 



Xiiij. oxen lying in salte. 

IJ. oxen ffreyssB. 

Vi^-'''hedes of shape fressB. 

Yi^x. carcas of shepe fressli. 

Xij. Bores. 

Xiiij. Calvys. 

Cxi. pigges. 

CCC. maribones. 

Of larde and grace, ynogh. 

IIJ. ton of salt venason. 

IIJ. does of ffressh venason. 



The pultry. 



L. Swannes. 

CCx. Gees. 

L. capons of hie grace. 

Yiii. dusseii oj^er capons. 

Lx. dd^ Hennes. 

CC. copiiH Conyngges. 

IIIJ. Fesauntes. 

Y. Herons and Bitores. 

Yi. kiddes. 

1 fol. 1. 



Y. dissoii pullayii for Gely. 
Xij. dd.^ to roste. 
C. dd. peions. 
Xij. dd. partrych. 
Yiij. dd. Rabettes. 

X. dosen Curlewes. 
Xij. dosen Brewes. 
Xij. Cranes. 
Wilde fowle ynogh. 
YJ^' galons melka, 
Xij. galons Creme. 

XI. galons of Cruddes. 
II j. hushel) of Appalles. 
Xj, thousand egges. 



% The first course. 

Yenesoii with Furmenty. 
A potage called viaundbruse. 
Hedes of Boras. 
Greta Flessh. 
Swannes rosted. 
Pigges rosted. 
Crustade lumbard in paste. 
And a Sotelte. 
2 six score. ^ dozens. 



68 COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. FEASTS IN 1387 AND 1443. 



^ The seconde course. 
A potage called Gele. 
A potage de Blandesore. 
Pigges' rested. 
Cranes' rested. 
Fesauntes rested. 
Herons rested. 
Chekens endored. 
Breme. 
1 Tartes. 
Broke braune. 
Conyngges rested. 
And a sotellte. 



^ The thirde course. 

Potage. bruete of Almondes. 

Stwde lumbarde. 

Yenyson rested. 

Chekenes rested. 

Pabettes rosted. 

Partricli rosted. 

Peions rosted. 

Quailes rosted. 

Larkes rosted. 

Payne puff/. 

A DissB of Gely. 

Longe Fruto?^rs. 

And a Sotelte. 



^ Atte the stalling of Jolin Stafford, Archibisshopp^? of CsLurderhurj, the 
xxj yere of king Harry the vj. [a.d. 1443.] 



Brawne with Mustard. 

Furmenty with Veneson. 

Mawmeny. 

Fesaunte. 

Swaii. 

Capon. 

Carpeis of Venesoii. 

Heron sewe. 

Grete breme. 

Leche cremy ryali. 

Custard ryoH. 

A sotelte. Saint Andrew, sitting on 
an hie Auter of a-state, with bemes 
of goldc ; afore him knelyng, ]>e 
Bisshoppe in pontificalibws ; his 
Croser kneling behinde him, coped. 

^ The second course. 
Bruet Men amy. 
Yiaund cypre. 

' fol. U. 



Crane rosted. 

Veneson rosted. 

Conyng. 

Betore. 

Partrich. 

Curlewe. 

Graunte carpe. 

Leche FrutoMr. 

Tard riaH. 

A sotelte : ]>e Trinite sitting in a son 
of gold, with a crueyfix in his 
honde. Seint Thomas in fat one 
side, Seint Austin in that ojjer, 
my lorde kneling in pontificalib^^s 
afor him. behinde him, his croser 
coped with the armes of Eouches- 
tre. behinde him, in j>at o side, a 
blakMonke, prior ^ of Cristas chirch; 
in ]>at other side, the Abbot of 
Seint Austyns. 
■ fol. 2. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. FEAST IN 1443. RECIPES. 69 



^ The thirde course. 

Crerae Vine. 
Gely departed. 
Browes. 

Chekenos boiled. 
Melons ppuH. 
Plouer rested. 
Eabettes. 
Yotrellej. 
Rales. 
Quayles. 
Dew doues. 



Blanke singuler leche. 

Frutoure Easyfi. 

Quynes bakyn. 

A sotelte. A godhede in a son of 
gold glorified aboue ; in the son 
the holy giste volnptable. Seint 
Thonirts kneHng a- for him, with ]>e 
poynt of a swerd in his hede/ & ^ 
Mitre there-vppoii, crownyng S.T. 
in dextera parte, maria tenens 
mitram ; in sinistra parte, Johannes 
'B'd^tista; et in iiij. partibws, iiij. 
Angeli incensantes. 



Here Beg^nnethe A Boke of Kokery, 

. rriake Colys, and stripe hem faire fro the stalkes. Take 

J- Betus and Borage, auens,^ Violette, Malvis, p«rsle, 
betayn, pacience, J^e white of the lekes, and \e croppe of ]>% netle ; parboile, 
presse out the water, hew hem small, And do there-to mele. Take goode 
broth of ffi.-essh beef, or other goode flessh and mary bones ; do it in a potte, 
set on \e fire ; choppe the hare in peces, And, if J70U wil, wassh hir in ]ie same 
broth, and then drawe it thorgh A streynowr with the blode. And \e\\ put 
aH on the fire. And if she be an olde hare, lete hire boile welt, or )70U cast 
in thi wortes ; if she be yonge, cast in aH togidre at ones ; And lete hem 
boyle til \q\ be ynogh, and cesofl hem with salt. And serue hem forth. The 
same wise thou may make wortes of A Gose of a ni^t,^ powdryng of beef, 
or eny other fressB flessh. 

* Buttered Wortes. ^ Take al maner of good herbes that thou may gete, 
and do bi ham as is forsaid ; putte hem on \q fire with faire water ; put 
]7ere-to clarefied buttur a grete quantite. Whan thei ben boyled ynogh, 
salt hem ; late none otemele come ther<;-in. Dise brede small in disshes, and 
powr<? on \q wortes, and serue hem forth. 

Cabochis. % Take faire Cabochis, pike hem and wassh hem, and parboyle 
1 ' honde ' crost through, and ' hede ' written after. ^ MS. anens. 3 njght. * fol. 26, 



70 COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. VENISON DISHES. 

hem ; then presse oute the water on a faire horde, choppe hem, and cast hem 
in a faire potte with goode fressh hroth and with Mary-bones, And lette hem 
hoyle ; then take faire grate brede, and cast there-to, saferoil,^ salt, and lets 
hoyle ynogh. And then serue hit forth. 

Growell^ fforce. % Take Groweli y-made of ffresh beef; And whan it is y- 
soddeii ynogh, drawe it thorgh a Streynowr into a fair potte ; then take lene 
porke, and seth it ; grynde it smaH in a morter, and temper it with the seid 
broth, and cast togidre. And lete it boyle til hit be ynogh. And cast thereto 
Sapheron and salt, and serue it forth. 

Nombles of Veneson. ^ Take jSTombles and kut hem smaH, whan they ben 
rawe ; Jiefi take fressh broth, water, and wyne, of eche of hem y-lyche moche, 
pouder of peper, CaneH, and boyle hem till it be almost ynogh, And then 
cast powder ginger there-to, And a lituH vynegre ; salt and cesoii it vppi?, and 
Sfrue it forth for a gode potage. 

Venysofi in broth. *[ Take rybbes of venyson, and wassh hem faire in 
Water, And streyfi the Water thorgh a Streynowr into a faire potte, and cast 
J^e Venyson thereto, p^rcely, Sauge, powder of pep«r, clouej. Maces, Yinegre, 
salt, And late hem boile til j^ei be ynow, & serue it forth. 

' Furmenty with venyson. ^ Take faire whete, and kerve it in a morter, 
And vanne a-wey clene the dnste, and wassh it in faire waters and lete it boile 
tin hit breke ; tlieii do awey the water clene, and caste there-to swete mylke, 
and sette it ouer the fire. And lete boile til it be thik ynogh. And caste there-to 
a goode quantite of tryed rawe yolkes of egges, and caste thereto Sapheron, 
sugur, and salt ; but late it boile no more then, but sette it on fewe coles, lest 
the licoure wax colde. And fen take fressh venyson, and water hit; seth hit 
and bawde hit; And if hit be salt, water hit, sethe hit, and leche hit as hit shali 
be serned forth, and put hit [in a vesseH wetA feyre water, and buille it]^ 
ayen ; and as hit boyleth, blowe a-wey the grece, and serue it forth with 
fPurmenty, And a litul of ])e broth in the Dissh all hote with the flessB. 

Bourreys. ^ Take pipes, hertes, neres, myites, and of the rybbes of J>e 
Swyne, or elles take (if thou wilt) Mallard or Goos, and choppe hem smaH, 
And then parboile it in faire water. And take it vp, and pike it clene. And 
putte into a potte. And cast there-to Ale ynogh, Sauge, Salt, And lete boile 
right ynowe, Sclpen serue it forth. 

Mortreus de Chare. ^ Take porke, and seth it ynow ; and take it vppe, 
and bawde hit, and hewe it and grinde i,t, and in a morter ; And cast thereto 
^ The MS. has here and brede crossed out. - fol. 3. ^ Added from D. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. DISHES OF BRAWN. 71 

grated brede, and then drawe the same broth thorgh a streynom", And temper 
hit with ale, and do al into a potte, and lete boile, and aley hit with yolkes 
of egges, And then lete it boile no more, And caste thereto powder of ginger, 
Salt, And put hit in disshes hi maner of Mortrewes, And cast thereto powder 
of ginger, & serue it forth. 

Brawne in confite. ^ Take fressh brawne, and myce ' it smali, and take 
Almondes, and blanche hem, and grinde hem, and draws hem thorgh a 
strayno2n". 

^ Brawne in confite. ^ Take fressh brawne, and seth it ynowe ; pare bit, 
and grinde hit in a morter, and tempei" it with almond mylke, and draw it 
thorgh a Streyno?<r into a potte, and cast thereto Sugo«r ynowe, and ponder 
of Clowes, and lete boyle ; and take ffloure of Caneii, or powder, a goode 
quantite, and caste there-to. And lete boyle, and caste there-to powder of 
ginger ; And theii take it vp oute of the potte. And put in a lynnen clothe 
and presse it ; lete hem boile so long in J^e potte that it be thik, And then take 
hit vppe, and presse it in the clothe ; And then leche hit faire, but not to 
thyn ; And then take the ribbes of ])e boor, and al bare, and set hem enlonge 
the leches, And serue it forthe .ij. or iij. leches in a dissh. 

Blaunche brawne. ^ Take fressh Brawne, and myce it smaH ; And take 
Almondes, and blaunche hem, and grynde hem thorgh a Streyno2<r into stuffe 
mylke, And put al into a potte, and sugur, And boyle al togidre til hit be 
right stuff ; And then take it vp, And cast hit in-to a faire basyn, And lete 
it stonde there til hit be aH colde ; And ]7en take a knyfe And leche it faire, 
but not to thyn, And ]7en serue hit forthe, a leche. or ij. in a dissh. 

Browne in egurdouce.^ ^ Take mighti broth of beef or of Capon, or take 
faire fressh brawne, and seth hit, but not ynow. And theii leche hit, And 
cast hit into the broth ; then take hole oynones, pike hem,^ And cast hem al 
hole there-to ; then take Yynegre and CaneH, and sette on l^e fire, and hete 
hem, and drawe hem ]7orgh a Streynoure, and cast hit there-to. Then take 
clowes. Maces, powder of peper, and cast thereto, and a lituH Sawndres, 
And sette hit ouer J^e fyre and lete boyle til J»e oynones and the brawne 
ben even sodde, and not to moche ; then take licowr made of brede, vynegre, 
'and wyii, and sesofi it vppe, and caste thereto a litul saferon to coloure hit, 
and salt. And serve it forth. 

Brawne in peuard.^ ^ Take wyn, pouder of CaneH, drawe hit thorgh a 

^ inicer, michier, depecer, mettre en pieces. — Hippeau. Gloss. * fol. Zb. 

* D. calls this " Braune en peueruade," it is recipe 56 there. * D. pile, i.e. peel. 

& fol. 4. ® Braune eu peut^uade, D. 



72 COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. GARBAGE, STEWS, ETC. 

Streyno?<r, set hit ouer the fire, lete hit boile, caste there-to Maces, cloues, 
powder of Peper ; take smale onyons hole, pflrboyle hem, caste thereto ; lete 
hem boile togider ; then take Brawne, leche hit, but not to thin ; And if hit 
be saused, let stepe hit in Hote water til hit be tender, then cast hit into ]>e 
siripe ; take Saundres, Vynegre, and caste there-to, And lete boile al togidre 
til hit be ynowe ; then take powder of ginger, caste thereto ; lete hit not be 
thik ne to thyn, butte as potage shulde be ; And serve hit forthe. 

Garbage. ^ Take faire Garbage, chikenes hedes, ffete, lyvers, And gysers, and 
"wassh hem clene ; caste hem into a faire potte, And caste f ressh broth of Beef, 
powder of Peper, Caneli, Clowes, Maces, Parcely and Sauge myced smaH ; 
then take brede, stepe hit in \ie same brothe, Drawe hit thorgh a streynowr, 
cast thereto, And lete boyle ynowe; caste there-to ponder ginger, vergeoMS, 
salt, And a lituH Safferon, And serve hit forthe. 

Pigge or chiken in Sauge. ^ Take a pigge. Draw him, smyte of his hede, 
kutte him in .iiij. quarters, boyle him til he be ynow, take him vppe, and lete 
cole, smyte him in peces ; take an hondefuH. or .ij. of Sauge, wassh hit, grynde 
it in a morter with hard yolkes of egges ; then drawe hit vppe with goods 
vinegre, but make hit not to thyii ; then seson hit with powder of Peper, 
ginger, and salt; then cowche thi pigge in disshes, and caste fe sirippe J;er- 
vppon, and serue it forthe. 

Stwed BeeJff. ^ Take faire Eibbes of ffresh beef, And (if thou wilt) roste 
hit Hil hit be nygfi ynowe; then put hit in a faire possenet ; caste ]>er-to 
p«rcely and oynons mynced, reysons of corauns, powder peper, canel, clowes, 
saundres, safferon, and salt ; then caste there-to wyii and a lituH vynegre ; sette 
a 1yd on J^e potte, and lete hit boile sokingly on a faire charcole til hit be 
ynogh ; j^eil lay the f9.essii, in disshes, and the sirippe there-vppoil. And serve 
it forth. 

Stwed Mutton. ^ Take faire Mutton that hath beii roste, or elles Capons, or 
suche o|?er flessfi, and mynce it faire ; put hit into a possenet, or elles bitwen 
ij. siluer disshes ; caste thereto faire p«rcely. And oynons smaH mynced; then 
caste there-to wyn, and a lituH vynegre or vergeous, pouder of peper, Canel, 
salt and saffron, and lete it stue on j^e faire coles. And ])eh serue hit forthe ; 
if he have no wyne ne vynegre, take Ale, Mustard, and A quantite of vergeous, 
and do J^is in 'pe stede of vyne or vinegre. 

Capons Stwed. ^ Take p<?rcelly, Sauge, Isoppe, Eose Mary, and tyme, and 
breke hit bitwen thi hondes, and stoppe the Capon there-with ; colowr hym 

1 fol. 4i. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. VENISON, FRITTERS. 73 

with Safferon, and couche him in a erthen potte, or of brasse, and ley splentes 
vnderneth and al aboujt the sides, that the Capon toiiche no things of the 
potte ; strawe good herbes in ]>e potte, and put there-to a pottel of the best 
Avyn that thou may gete, and none other licowr ; hele ' the potte with a close 
led, and stoppe hit aboujte with dogh or hater, that no eier come oute ; And 
set hit on ]^e faire charcole, and lete it seeth easly and longe tiH hit be ynowe. 
And if hit be an erthen potte, jjen set hit on ]>e fire whan ]70u takest hit 
downe, and lete hit not touche ])e grounde for breking ; And whan ]>e hete is 
ouer past, take oute the Capon with a prik ; theii make a sirippe of wyne, 
Reysons of corance, sugur and safFeron, And boile hit a lituH; ^medel pouder 
of Ginger with a litul of the same wyii, and do ]7er«to ; then do awey the fatte 
of the sewe of the Capon, And do the Sirypp^ to ]>e sewe, and powre hit on ]>e 
capon, and serue it forth. 

Flathonys. ^ Take mylke, and yolkes of egges, and ale, and drawe hem 
thorgh a straynowr, with white sugur or blak ; And melt faire butter, and put 
thereto salt, and make fairs coffyns, and put hem into a Nowne^ til Jiei be a 
lituH hard ; ]>eQ take a pile, and a dissh fastned there-on, and fill j^e coffyns 
therewith of the seid stuffe and late hem bake a while. And J7en take hem 
oute, and serue hem forthe, and caste Sugur ynogh oil hem. 

Venyson ybake. ^ Take hanches of Venysoil, parboile it in faire water and 
salt ; ]>en take faire paast, and ley there-ofi ])e Venyson y-cutte in pieces as ]>o\i 
wolt have it, and cast vnder hit, and aboue hit, powder of ginger, or peper 
and salt medylde togidre, And sette hem in An oven, and lete hem bake til 
]jcj be ynogh. 

FrutOMls. ^ Take yolkes of egges, drawe hem thorgh a streynoi<r, caste 
there-to faire floure, berme and ale ; stere it togidre til hit be thik. Take 
pared appelles, cut hem thyn like obleies,* ley hem in ]>e batur ; ]>en put hem 
into a Ifrying pan, and fry hem in faire grece or buttur til }ei ben browne 
yelowe ; then put hem in disshes, and strawe Sugur on hem ynogh, And 
serue hem forthe. 

Longe FrutOMrs. ^ Take Mylke And make faire croddes there-of in maner 
of chese al tendur, and take oute ]>e way clene ; theii put hit in a faire boH, 
And take yolkes of egges, and white, and menge floure, and caste thereto a 
good quantite, and drawe hit j^orgh a streynoure into a faire vesseH ; then 
put hit in a faire pan, and fry hit ^ a lituH in faire grece, but lete not boyle ; 
then take it oute, and ley on a faire borde, and kutte it in faire smale peces 
1 cover. ^ iol. 5. ^ an oven. * sacramental wafers. ^ lol. 5b. 



74 COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. CUSTARDS, AND MEAT TARTS. 

as thou list, And putte hem ayefi into the panne til thei be browne ; And 
then caste Sugur on hem, and serue hem forth. 

Pety p^rnantes. ^ Take faire floure, Sugur, Saffron, and salt, and make 
paast ]>er-o{; theii make small Coffyns, theii cast in eche a coffyn .iij. or iiij 
rawe yolkes of egges hole, and ij. gobettes or iij. of Mary couche ]>enn; ])en 
take powder of ginger, Sugur, Eeysons of Gorans, and cast above ; ]>.en cover 
the coffyn with a 1yd of ]>e same paste ; then bake hem in a oveii, or elles 
fry hem in faire grece fressB, And then serve hit forthe. 

Anter peti pernantes. ^ Take and make thi Coffyns as hit is a-for said ; 
then take rawe yolkes of egges, tryude in sugur, ponder of Gynger, and 
resons of Gorans, and mysed mary, but not to smaH, And caste aA this into a 
faire boH, and medel aH to-gidre, and put hit in coffyns, and bake hem, or fry 
hem as ]>oii diddest be ]>& toj^er. 

Custarde. ^ Take Yele, and smyte hit in lituH peces, and wassh it clene; 
put hit into a faire potte with faire water, and lete hit boyle togidre ; ]>eT\ take 
pflrcelly, Sauge, Isoppe, Sauerey, wassh hem, hewe hem, And cast hem into 
flessB. whan hit boileth ; then take powder of peper, canel, Glowes, Maces, 
Saffron, salt, and lete hem boyle togidre, and a goode dele of wyne with aH, 
And whan the flesshl is boyled, take it vppe fro ]>e broth, And lete the broth 
kele. "Whan hit is colde, streyne yolkes and white of egges thorgh a 
streynoMr, and put hem to the broth, so many that the broth be styff ynowe. 
And make faire cofyns, and couche iij. or iiij. peces of the flessh in ]>e Coffyns ; 
then take Dates, prunes, and kutte hem ; cast thereto powder of Gynger and 
a lituH ^ Vergeous, and put to the broth, and salt ; then lete the coffyn and 
the flessh bake a lituH ; And j^en put the broth in the coffyns, And lete 
hem bake till they be ynogh. 

Custard lumbarde. ^ Take good creme,- and yolkes And white of egges, and 
breke hem thereto, and streyne hem aH ]7orgh a strayno?<r tiH hit be so thik 
that it woH here him self ; And take faire Mary, And Dates, cutte in ij. or iij. 
and prunes, and put hem in faire coffyns of paast ; And then put J^e coffyn in 
an oven. And lete hem bake tiH thei be hard. And then drawe hem cute, and 
putte the licoure into 'pe Coffyns, And put hem into jje oven ayefi. And lete 
hem bake till they be ynogh, but cast sugur and salt in j>i licowr whan ye 
putte hit into ]>e coffyns ; And if hit be in lentofi, take creme of Almondes, 
And leve the egges And the Mary. 

Tartus of fflesh. ^ Take fressh porke, hew it smaH, grynde it in a morter, 
1 fol. 6. - The MS. has here and fioiles of parcelly crossed through. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. TARTS, AND PARIS PIES. 75 

and take it vpp^ into a faire vesseH: ; And take yolkes and white of egges, 
streyn hem J^orgli a streynowr, and temper ]7e porke there-with ; then take 
pynys, reysons of coraunce, and fry hem in fressB. grece, and cast ther<?to 
ponder of peper, Gingere, CaneH, Sugur, Safferoii and salt, and do hit in a 
coffyii, and plante the cofFyfi above with prunes, and kutte dates, and grete 
reysynges, and smale birdes, and or ellej hard Yolkes of egges ; and if jjou 
take birdes, fry hem a lituH; in fresh grece, or thou putte hem into ]>e CofFyn ; 
then endore hit with yolkes of egges and witli saffron, and lete bake hit til 
hit be ynogh, and so serue hit forth. 

Lese fryes.^ ^ Take nessh chese, and pare it clene, and grinde hit in a 
morter small, and drawe yolkes and white of egges thorgh a streyno«r, and 
cast there-to, and grinde hem togidrc; then cast thereto Sugur, -butter and 
salt, and put al togidre in a coffyn of faire paast. And lete bake ynowe, and 
then seme it forthe. 

Auter Tartus. ^ Take faire nessh chese that is buttry, and par hit, grynde 
hit in a morter ; caste therto faire creme and grinde hit togidre ; temper hit with 
goode mylke, that hit be no thikker jreh rawe creme, and cast thereto a litul 
salt if nede be ; And ^ thi chese be salte, caste thereto neuer a dele ; colowr hit 
with saffron ; then make a large coflPyn of faire paste, & lete the brinkes be 
rered more j^eii an enche of hegh ; lete ]>e coffyn harden in ]>e oven ; l^en take 
it oute, put gobettcs of butter in the bothoni thereof. And caste the stuffe 
there-to, and caste peces of buttur there-vppoii, and sette in ]>e oven with-oute 
lydde, and lete bake ynowe, and then cast sugur thereon, and serue it forth. 
And if J70U wilt, lete him haue a lydde ; but pen thi stuff most be as thikke 
as Mortrewes. 

Dariolles. ^ Take wyne and fressh broth, Clowes, Maces, Mary, powder of 
Gynger, and Saffron, And lete al boyle togidre; And take Creme, (and if hit be 
cloutes, drawe hem thorgh a streynowr,) And yolkes of egges, and medle hem 
togidre, and powre the licoure that jje mary was soden in, thereto ; And then 
make faire cofyns of fyne paast, and putte the mary there-in, and myced dates 
And streberies, if hit be in time of yere, and sette jie Coffyns in j^e oven, And 
lete bake a lituH while, And take hem oute, and putte the licowr thereto, And 
lete hem bake ynouh 

Pies of Parys. ^ Take and smyte faire buttes of porke and buttes of vele 

togidre, and put hit in a faire potte. And putte thereto faire broth, And a 

fjuantite of Wyne, And lete aH: boile togidre til hit be ynogh ; And ]ieh take 

hit fro the fire, and lete kele [a litel, and cast ther-to raw yolkes of eyren), 

1 D. Leche fryej. 2 fol. 6b. 3 if. 



76 COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. PIES, HERBEBLADE. 

and pouudre of gjngeuere, sugre and salt, and mynced dates, reysyns of 
corence : make then cofFyns of feyre past, and do it ther-ynne, and keuere 
it & lete bake y-nog1i.] ^ 

^Grete pyes. ^ Take faii-e yonge beef, And suet of a fatte beste, or of Motton, 
and hak aH this on a borde smali ; And caste thereto ponder of peper and 
salt; And whan it is small heweii, put hit in a bolle, And medle hem weH; 
theii make a fairs large Cofyn, and couche som of this stuffur in// Then 
take Capons, Hennas, Mallardes, Connynges, and parboile hem clene ; take 
wodekokk^s, teles, grete briddes, and plom hem in a boiKng potte ; And 
theii couche al J^is fowle in jie Coffyii, And put in euerych of hem a quantite 
of ponder of peper and salt// Then take mary, harde yolkes of egges. Dates 
cutte in ij. peces, reisons of coraunce, prunes, hole clowes, hole maces, CaneH, 
and saffron. But first, whan thou hast cowched aH thi foule, ley the reme- 
naunt of thyne other stuffur of beef a-bought hem, as J^ou thenkest goode ; 
and then strawe on hem this : dates, mary, and reysons, &c.. And then close 
thi Coffyn with a lydde of the same paast, And putte hit in ])e oven. And 
late hit bake ynogh ; but be ware, or thou close hit, that there come no saffron 
nygh the briukes there- of, for then hit wol neuer close. 

Herbe-blade. ^ Take buttes of Porke, and smyte hem in peces, and sette 
hit oil the fire, and seth it in faire water ; And whan hit is sodeii y-nogh, take 
it oute, and baude hit, and pike oute J^e bones, and hewe it small, and putte 
hit in a faire boU. And take Isop, Sauge, and parcelly a goode quantite ; 
pike hit, and hewe hit smaH, And put hit in faire vessellcz ; And take a litul of 
]7e brotli ]7at J^e porke was sodeii yii, and drawe hit j^orgh a streynowr, and 
caste to the erbeblade, and yef hit a boyle ; theii take oute ]>e herbes witfi a 
Skymoea' fro the broth, And cast hem into ]>e porke in ]>e bolle ; And thefi 
myce faire dates small, And caste hem there-to. And reysoiis of coraunce, and 
pynes; And draw rawe yolkes of egges thorgh a strayno?<r, and caste thereto 
Sugur, powder of Ginger, salt; colour hit with a lituH saffroii ; And truH 
hit with ^thi honde, al this togidur in 'pe bolle ; And ]?eii make faire rownde 
cofyns, and put hem in the oveii, and hard hem a lituH, and take hem oute 
ayeii, and with a dissh in thi honde, fil hem full of the stuffe, and sette hem 
ayeii in the oven al opeii, And let hem bake ynowe. And thenne serue hit forth. 

Chawdwyii. ^ Take Gysers, lyuers, and hertes of Swannes, or of wilde 
gese ; And if ]>e guttes be fatte, slytte hem, and cast hem there-to, And boile 
hem in faire water ; And theii take hem vppe, And hew hem smale, and caste 
1 Added from D. « fol. 7. » fol. 7b. 



COOKERY BOOK 11. HARL. 4016. PICKLE AND SAUCES. 77 

into ]>e same brot!i ayene,biit streyne hit Jiorgli a streynota* firste ; And caste 
thereto ponder of peper and of caneH, and salt, and vinegi-e, And lete boile ; 
And ]7en take ]>e blode of ])e swan, and fressh broth, and brede, and drawe 
hem ])orgh a streynowr and cast thereto, And lete al boyle togidre ; And 
jieh take ponder of Gynger, whan hit is al-moost ynough, And caste ' there-to, 
And serue it forthe. 

PikkyH ipotir le Mallard. ^ Take oynons, and hewe hem smaH, and fry 
hem in fressh grace, and caste hem into a potte, And fressh broth of beef, 
Wyne, & powder of poper, canel, and dropping of the mallard/ And lete hem 
boile togidur awhile ; And take hit fro ]>e ijre, and caste thereto mustard a 
litul, And ponder of ginger. And lete hit boile no more, and salt hit, And 
seme it forthe with j^e Mallard. 

Sauce gamelyne. ^ Take faire brede, and kutte it, and take vinegre and 
wyne, & stepe ]>e brede therein, and drawe hit thorgh a streynowr with 
powder of canel, and drawe hit twies or thries til hit be smoth ; and ]>en take 
ponder of ginger, Sugur, and ponder of clones, and cast ])erto a litul saffron 
and lete hit be thik ynogh, '^and thenne serue hit forthe. 

Sauce sermstele.^ ^ Take Milke and a litul floure, And caste hit in a potte, 
And lete boile al togidur al thyii ; and whan hit is wel boyled, take and 
stampe garlek small, and caste there-to ponder of peper, and salt, And then 
serue hit forthe. 

Sauce oylepeuer.* ^ Take faire browne brede, and tost hit, and stepe hit in ■ 
vinegre, and drawe it thorgh a streynoza", and caste there-to garlek (butte 
stampe it smaH first) ; And caste there-to pouder of peper, And salte. And 
serue hit forth. 

Sauce Verte. ^ Take -parcelj, Mintes, Betany, Peleter, and grinds hem 
smale ; And take faire brede, and stepe hit in vinegre, and drawe it thorgh a 
streynowr, and cast thereto pouder of peper, salt, and serue it forth. 

Sauce Gynger. ^ Take faire white brede, and stepe it in vinegre, and 
drawe hit thorgh a streyno?<r twies or thries, and caste there-to pouder of 
ginger and salte ; but lete it not be to thyn, bnt soni what stiff, And then 
serue hit forthe. 

Sauce SoreH. ^ Take SoreH, grynde hem smaH, And drawe hem thorgh a 
Streynoure, and caste there-to Salt, and serue hit forth. 

Sauce galentyne. ^ Take faire crustes of browne brede stept in vinegre, 
And cast thereto pouder of caneH, and lete hit stepe therewith, til hit be 

1 caste repeated in MS. * fol. 8. ^ D. Sauuce gauncelle. * D. Sauuce alpeutre. 



78 COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. ROAST AND STEWED BIRDS. 

browne; j^en clrawe hit thorgh a strejnour ones or twyes, And caste there-to 
ponder of pep^r, And lete hit be som-whatte stonding, And ]7en seme hit 
forthe. 

Swan rested. ^ ^ Kutte a Swan in the rove ' of the moiithe toward the 
brayne enlouge, and lete him blede, and kepe the blode for chawdewyn ; or 
elles knytte a knot on his nek, And so late his nekke breke; theii skald him. 
Drawe him and rost him even as thou doest goce in aH poyntes, and seme 
him forth with chawd-wyne. 

Crane rested. ^ Lete a Crane blode in the monthe as thou diddist a Swan ; 
fold Tp his legges, kutte of his winges at ]>e ioynte next fe body, drawe 
him, Wynde the nekke abought the spit ; putte the biH in his brest : his 
sauce is to be mynced with pouder of ginger, vynegre, & Mustard. 

ffesaunte rested. ^ Lete a ffesaunte blode in ]>e mouthe as a crane, And 
lete him blede to dethe ; puH him dry, kutte awey his hede and the necke by 
fe body, and the legges by the kne, and putte ]>e kneys in at the vente, and 
roste him : his sauce is Sugur and mustard. 

Partrich rested. ^ Take a p«rtrich, and sle him in J^e nape of the hede 
with a fethur;^ dight him, larde him, and roste him as ]70u doest a ffesaunte 
in the same wise, And serue him forth ; then sauce him yvith wyne, pouder of 
ginger and salt, And sette hit in a dissh on the fuyre til hit boyle ; then cast 
powder ginger, CaneH, thereon. And kutte him so ; or elles ete him with sugur 
and Mustard. 

Partrich stwed. ^ Take faire mighti broth of beef or of Mutton when hit 
is boyled ynow, and streyii hit thorgh a streyno?<r, and put hit into an ertheii 
potte, And take a good quantite of wyne, as hit were half a pynte. And take 
partrich, clones. Maces, and hole peper, and cast in-to ]>e potte, and lete boile 
wel togidre ; And whan the partrich ben ynogh, take the potte from the fuyre, 
and then take faire brede kutte in thyn *browes, and couche hem in a faire 
chargoi<r, and ley the partrich on loft ; And take powder of Ginger, salt, and 
hard yolkes of egges mynced, and caste into the broth, and powre the broth 
vppon the partrich into the chargeoea', and serue it forth, but late hit be 
colored with saffron. 

Heren rested. ^ Take a Heron ; lete him blode as a crane. And serue him 

in al poyntes as a crane, in scalding, drawing, and kuttyng the bone of the 

nekke a-wey, And lete the skyn be oil, &c. ; roste him and sause him as ]>e 

Crane ; breke awey the bone fro the kne to J^e fote, And lete the skyii be on. 

1 fol. Sb. 2 roof, 3 D_ settles this stop. * fol. 9. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. ROAST PEACOCK, ETC. 79 

Bytor rested. ^ Take a Bitowr, sle him in the mouthe, skalde him, seme 
him in aH poyutes as ]70U doest a Crane, but lets him haue on his winges 
when he is rested, And serue him forthe. 

Curlewe rosted. ^ Take a Curlewe, sle him as a Crane, pul him dry, kutte 
of the winges by the body, draws him, dight him as a Henne, And folde vp 
his legges as a crane ; lete his necke and his hede be on ; take awey the 
nether lippe and throte boH, and put his hede in at his shuldur, and roste 
him as a Crane, and no sauuce but salte. 

Egrete rosted. ^ Take an Egrets, sis him as a Crane, skalde him and 
drawe him, and kutte his winges, and folde his legges as a crane, and roste 
him, And seme him forth ; and no sauce but salte. 

Brewe rosted. ^ Take a Brews, sle him as ]>e Curlewe, skalde him, drawe 
him as a hen, brsks his legges at ]>e kne, and take awey the bone fro the 
kus to ]>e fote, as a heron ; And kutte the winges by the body, and his hede 
by the body, and put him on a spitts, And bynde his legges as a heron ; roste 
him, reyse his legges and his winges as a heron, And take no maner sauce 
butte salte. 

' Q,uayle rosted. ^ Take a Quayls, and sle him, And serue him as thou doest 
a partrich in aH Degre. His Sauce is sauce gamelyne. 

Pecok rosted. ^ Take a Pecok, breke his necke, and kutte his throte, And 
fle him, ]>e skyil and the fFethurs togidre, and the beds stiH: to the skyii of 
the nekke, And keps the skyn and the ffethurs hole togiders; drawe him as 
an hen. And kepe ]>e bone to 'pe necks hole, and roste him. And set the bone 
of the necks aboue the broehe, as he was wonte to sitte a-lyve. And abowe 
the legges to J^e body, as he was wonte to sitte a-lyvs ; And whaii hs is rosted 
ynowe, take him of. And Iste him kele ; And J'eil wynde the skyii with the 
fethurs and the taile abought the body. And serue him forthe as he were 
a-live ; or ellej puH him dry. And roste him, and serue him as |70u doest a 
henne. 

SorceH rosted. ^ Take a SorceH or a tele, and broke his necke, and pul him 
dry, And draw him as a chekon, and kutte off his fete and winges by the 
body and j^e nekke, and roste him, and reise his winges and his legges as a 
heron, if he be a SorceH ; And no sauce but salt. 

Plouer. ^ Take a plouer, and breke his skoH, and pull him dry, And drawe 

him as a chekon, And kutte j^e legges and the winges as a henne ; And no 

sauce but salt. 

1 fol. 9b. 



80 COOKERY BOOK IT. HARL. 4016. DISHES OF CONIES. 

Wodekok. ^ Take a wodecok, and sle liim as j>e plouer ; pul him dry, or 
elles breke his bakke, And lete the senile be hole ; drawe him, And kutte of 
his winges by the body, and turne vp the legges as J-ou doest of a crane ; 
put his biH thorgh bothe his thighes ; roste him, And reise his legges And 
his winges, as thou doest of aH maner of other clouen fote fowle. 

^ Snyte. — Take a Snyte, and sle him as thou doste a wodecok ; pulle him, 
late his necke be hole, save the wesing ; put the biH in the shulder, and f olde 
]>e legges as a Crane ; roste him, And dight him as the Wodecok. 

Conyng. ^ Take a Conyng, fle him. And di-aw him aboue and byneth. And 
parboile him. And larde him, and roste him. And late the hede be oii ; And 
vndo hi?«, and sauce him with sauce, ginger, And vergeous, and powder of 
ginger. And thenne serue hit forth. 

Conyng in Gravey. ^ Take blanched Almondes, grinde hem with wyn 
And gode broth of befe and Mutton, and draw hit thorgh a Streyno?<r, and 
cast hit into a potte, and lete boile ; and caste there-to pouder of ginger, 
clowes. Maces, and sugur// And then take a Conyng, and seth him ynogh in 
goode fressh broth, and choppe him. And take of the skyfi clone, and pike 
hem clene And cast hit to the Sirippe, And lete boyle ones. And s^rue forth. 

Conyng or hen in clene^ broth. ^ Take a Conyng or a hen, and seth him 
ynowe in good fressh broth, and drawe J^e same broth thr[o]gh a Streyno?<r ; 
And take half a pynte of white wyn, and caste there-to ; And then sette it 
ouer the fire, and then choppy the Conyng or the hen, and take of the Skyn, 
and pike hew* clene, and caste thereto, And lete boile togidre ; And whan 
hit is boiled ynogh, caste thei'e-to powder of ginger, vergeous, and salt also; 
And then thou shaH serue it forth. 

Conyng, hen, or Mallard.^ ^ Take Conyng, Hen, or Mallard, and roste 
him al-moste ynowe ; or elles choppe hem, and fry hem in fressh grece ; 
and fry oynons myced, and cast al togidre into a potte, and caste there-to 
fressh broth and half wyne ; caste thereto Clones, Maces, powder of Peper, 
CaneH ; then stepe faire brede with the same broth and drawe hit thorgh 
*a streynoia- with vinegre. And whan hit hath wel boiled, caste the licoMr 
thereto, and pouder ginger, and vinegre, and ceson hit vppe. And theii thou 
shaH serue hit forth. 

Gelyne endobat. ^ Take a hen, and roste hir al-moost ynogh, and chop hir 
smaH in faire peces, and caste hem into a potte ; and take fressh broth and 
halff wyne, and caste there-to Maces, Peper, Clowes, and caneH ; and stepe 

1 fol. 10. Snipe. ^ £)ouce MS. clere. ' D. adds en oylc. * fol. 10*. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HAUL. 4016. STUFT CHICKEN AND GEESE. 81 

faire brede with the same broth and with vinegre, and drawe hit thorgh a 
streyno?rt- ; and whafi it hath wel boiled, caste thereto ponder of ginger and 
vinegre, and seson hit vppe and seme it forth. 

Gelyne in broths. ^ Take rawe hennes, chop hem, caste hem into a potte; 
cast to fressh broth Wyne, p^^rcelly, oynons myced, powder of peper, clowes, 
Maces, safFrou^J, and salt ; then stepe brede with vinegre and Jjs same broth, 
and draw hit thorgh a streynowr, and cast it thereto, and lete boyle ynogh ; 
And caste thereto ponder ginger, and sesone hit vp, & serue forth. 

Rabette rested. ^ Take a Rabette, and sle him, And drawe him. And lete 
his hede be oii), as a Conyng ; roste him as a Conyng, And serue him forth. 

Kede rested. ^ Take a kydde, and slytte the skyn in ]>e throte, And seke 
the veyne, and kut him, and lete him blede to deth ; and fle him. And larde 
him, And trusse his legges in fe sides, and roste him, And reyse the shuldres 
and legges, and sauce hit with vinegre and salte. 

Venyso^m rested. ^ Take faire ffelettes of venesotm, and pike awey the 
skyii and J7e bone, and prtrboile hem, and roste hem on a spitte ; And sauce 
there-to. And seme hit forth. 

Vele rested. ^ Take faire brestes of vele. And parboyle hem, And larde 
hem, And 'roste hem, And then serue hem forth. 

Chik farsed. ^ Take a faire chek, and skald him, and breke the skyii (as 
sone as he is scalded) in the necke behinde, and blowe him, And cast him in 
fiiiri? water, and wassh him ; and ]ien kutte of ]ie hede and nek, and lete he 
ffete be on al hole, and di'aw him clene ; and ]>en pike faire p«rcelly, and 
parboile hit ; And J^en take hard yolkes of eyron, and hewe hem and ]>e 
prtrcelly togidre, and fressh grece, and caste there-to ponder of ginger, peper, 
a litel saffron and salt. And put al in- to ]>e Chike, and put hit on a Spitte • 
And thenne late him roste, and serue forth. 

Chike endered. ^ Take a chike, and drawe him, and roste him, And lete 
the fete be on, and take awey the hede ; then make batur of yolkes of 
eyroii and floure, and caste there-to ponder of ginger, and peper, saffron and 
salt, and pouder hit faire til hit be rested ynogh. 

Gece er Capon farced. ^ Take p^rciH, Swynes grece, or suet of shepe, and 
pffrboyle hem in faire water and fressh boyling broth ; And j^efi take yolkes 
of eyeroii hard y-sodde, and hew hem smale, with the herbes and the salte ; 
and caste thereto pouder of Ginger, Peper, CaneH, and salte, and Grapes in 
tyme of yere ; And in oj^er tyme, take oynons, and boile hem ; and whan they 

1 fol. 11. 



82 COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. PORK LOZENGES, TRIPE. 

ben yboiled ynowe with j^e herbes and with ]>e suet, al |'es togidre, jjcii put 
aH; in ]>e goos, or in j)e Capon; And then late him roste ynogh. 

Pigge ffarced. *[ Take rawe egges, and drawe hem j^orgh a streyno2<r, And 
J»en grate faire brede ; And take saffron, salt, pouder ginger, And suet of 
Shepe, And do medle al togidre into a faire vesseH:, and put hit in Jie pigge 
wombe Whan he is oil ]>e brocche, And Jien sowe the hole togidre ; or take 
a prik, and prik him togidur. And lete him roste. 

^ ffelettes of Porke endored. ^ Take ffelettes of porke, and roste hem faire, 
And endore hem with ]^e same batur as Jjou dofist a cheke as he turnetli 
aboute the spitte, And seme hbn forth. 

ffelettes in galentyne. ^ Take faire porke of ]?e fore quarter, and take of 
the skyii, and put fe pork on a faire spitte, and roste it half ynogh ; and take 
hit of, and smyte hit in peces, and east hit in a faire potte ; and l^en take 
oynons, and shred and pul hem, not to smaH, and fry hem in a pan with faire 
grece. And then caste hem to J»e porke into ]>e potte ; And then take good 
broth of beef or Motton, and cast thereto, and set hit on ]>g fire, and caste 
to pouder of Peper, Canel, Cloues & Maces, and lete boile wel togidur ; 
and j^eii take faire brede and vinegre, and stepe the brede with a lituH of J^e 
same broth, and streyne hit thorgh a streynoj<r, and blode with aH ; or elles 
take Saundres and coloe^r hit therewith, and late hem boile togidur, and 
cast thereto Saffron and salt, and s^rue hit forth. 

Losinges de chare. ^ Take faire buttes of porke, and hewe hem, and 
grynde hem, and caste there-to yolkes of eyrefi rawe, and take it vppe into 
a faire vesseH ; and take reysons of Corance, and myced dates, and pouder 
ginger, peper, saffron, and sugur, and medle al this to-gidre ; and make faire 
paast of sug2<r, saffron, and salte, and temper therein ; And make thereof ij . 
faire cakes, and ley the stuff therein al abrode on ]>e cakes aH flatte. And 
fen take ano]7er Cake, and ley him al abrode thereon, and J^eil kutte ])e Cakes 
thorgh with a knyfe, in maner of losinges ; And then make faire bater of rawe 
yolkes of eroii, sugur and salt, and close Jie sides of ]>e losinges therewith, 
and theii fry hem in fressh grece ynow, And so serue hem forthe. 

Tripe de Mutton. ^ Take a panche of a shepe, and make it clene, and 
caste hit in a potte ' of boyling water, and skyme hit clene, and gader al awey 
the grece, and lete hem boile til )7ei be al tendur ; then take hem vppe on a 
faire horde, and kutte hem in smale peces of ij peny brede, and caste hem jh 
an ertheu potte with stronge broth of bef or Mutton; take ffoyles of prtrcelly, 
1 fol. 115. 1 fol. 12. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. FRIED BREAD, ETC. 83 

and hewe hem smaH, and cast hem to, And lete hoyle togidre til they ben 
tendur/ And ]>en take ponder of ginger, and a qnantite of vergeoiis, and take 
saffron and salt and caste there-to, and lete hem boile togidre til j^ey be ynogh. 

Allowes de Mutton. ^ Take faire Mutton of the Buttes, and kutte hit in 
])e maner of stekes ; And ]>en take faire rawe parcelly, and oynons shred 
smale, yolkes of eron sodden hard, and mary or suet ; hewe all ]>es smale 
togidre, and then caste thereto pouder of ginger, and saffron, and stere hem 
togidre with thi honde, and ley hem vppe-ofi j^e stekes al abrode ; and cast 
there-to salt, and rolle hem togidre, and put hem on a spitte, and roste hem 
till j'ei be ynogli. 

Browne fryes.^ % Take browne brede, and kut hit thyn ; And then take 
yolkes of eyren, and soih with^ of the white; and take meyned fioure, and 
drawe the eiren and the floure thorgh a streyno«r ; and take sugur a gode 
qM«ntite, and a litul saffron and salt, And cast thereto : and take a faire 
panne with fressli grece ; And whan ])e grece is bote, take downe and putte it 
in j^e batur, and turne hit wel therein, and ])en put hit in ]>e pan with the 
grece, And lete hem fry togidre a lituH while ; And then take hem vpp, and 
caste sugur thereon, and so seme hit bote. 

Payn purdeuz. ^ Take faire yolkes of eyrefi, and try hem fro the white , 
and drawe hem j^orgh a streyno2U'; and then take salte, and caste thereto; 
And then take manged brede ^ or payiiman, and kutte hit in leches; and ]>en 
take faire buttur, and clarefy hit, or elles take fressli grece and put hit yn) * a 
faire pan, and make hit bote ; And then wete fe brede weH there in l^e yolkes 
of eyrefi, and then ley hit oii the batur in J^e pan, whan J;e buttur is al bote ; 
And then whan hit is fried ynowe, take sugur ynowe, and caste there-to 
whan hit is in jie dissh, And so seme hit forth. 

Perre. ^f Take grene pesyfi, and boile hem in a potte ; And whan they beii 
y-broke, drawe the broth a good qiiantite ]7orgh a streynowr into a potte. And 
sitte hit on the fire ; and take oynons and pffrcelly, and hewe hem smaH 
togidre. And caste hem thereto ; And take pouder of CaneH and peper, and 
caste thereto, and lete boile ; And take vynegwr and pouder of ginger, and 
caste thereto ; And then take Saffron and salte, a lituli quantite, and caste 
thereto ; And take faire peces of paynmain, or elles of such tendur brede, and 
kutte hit jn fere mosselles, and caste there-to; And j^eii serue hit so f'/rth. 

Malasade.^ •[ Take yolkes and white [of] eiren togidre, And drawe hem 

' The recipe on p. 43 makes Braicn of this dish. 

^ Some of the white therewith. See p. 43, Eecipe xlv. 

^ Douce MS. maynche brede. Manchet. 

* fol. I2b. 5 So in Douce MS. ; Malafade in Harl. 



84 COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. HAGAS DE ALMONDES. 

thorgh a streynoui-e ; and ])0T\ take a litul butter, and caste hit in a f aire frying 
panne ; And whan the butter is bote, take ]ie eiren that ben y-drawe, and caste 
there-to. And J!eh take a Saucer, and gadur the eyreii togidre in the panne, 
in the brede of a pewtre dissh ; And then couche faire [pecys]^ of brede 
downward in j^e pail ; and take it vp cute of the pan. And caste faire 
white Sugur thereto, and Si?rue it forth. And to^ euerj malesade, take the 
mowutayne^ of xij. eyrefl And mo. 

Blaunde sorre. ^ Take almondes, and blanche hem, and stampe hem in a 
mort^'r, and temper hem with fressh lene broth of a Capon, or beef, and wyne ; 
And if hit be in lenton or in a fissh day, take faire broth of fressh fissh and 
wyne, And boyle hem to-gidre a good while, and take hit vppe in a faire 
lynnen cloth that is clene wasshen, and ])e water y-Wronge oute there-of ; 
And drawe vnder the cloth, with a ladeH, al the water that ye may, even as 
ye * make colde creme ; and then take it oute of the clothe, and cast hit in a 
faire potte, and lete boile ; and then take brawne of a capon and tese hit smaH, 
and bray hit in a morter/ (or elles in a fissh day, take a codlyng or a haddok), 
and temper hit with almond melke, and cast sugur ynogh thereto ; and then 
caste hit in the potte, And lete hit boile togidur a goode while ; and ]>en take 
hit oute of the potte al bote, and dresse hit into a dissh as ye doeth a colde 
creme ; And sette ther-on rede Anneys in confite, and serue hit forth ; or elles 
take faire almondes yblanched, & set ]7eron/ 

Hagas de almondes. ^ Take faire yolkes of eyren, and the White, and 
drawe hem thorgh a Streyno?<r, and take faire parcelly, and parboyle hit in a 
potte, & pflrboylingge broj'e; And theil take yolkes of yrefi, sodde hard, and 
bewe the yolkes and the pffrcely small togidre; And [take]^ sugur, ponder of 
Gynger, and salte, & cast to yolkes and pflrcelly ; And take mary, and put hit 
in a streynowr. And lete hong^ yu to J'e boy ling potte, and parboile ; and take 
hit vppe, and lette hit kele, And kutte hit then in smale peces ; And then take 
the drawen eyren, and putte hem in a pan al a-brode, (And vnneth eny grece 
in Jje pan,) and couche the yolkes and the p«rcelly there-oil in ]>e pan. And 
then couche the peces of ]>e mary thereon ; And then folde vp J7e kake byneth 
euery corner, to eche corner foure square al flatte, And turne hit on the pan ; 
And lete hit lye awhile, And then take it vp, and serue hit forth. 

Hanoney. ^ Take eyren, and drawe the yolkes and white thorgh a 

1 Added from Douce MS. : Harl. MS. reads /(are of a brede. 

- MS. do. MS. lias malesade here, but Malafade iu the liending. ^ amount, number. 

* fol. 13. s ^tijg^ iYojj^ V)Q\XQ,Q MS. « Douce MS. : Harl. MS. hold. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. BLAMANGER, BUKNADE. 85 

streyrLO?<r ; And take oynons, And Slirede hem smaH ; And take faire butter or 
grace, and vnnetli ouere-couer the pan therewitli ; And fry the oynons togidre ; 
then late hem fry to-gidre a lite while ; And take hem vpp^, And serue hem 
forthe so, al to-broke yil a dissh. 

Blamanger. ^ Take faire Almondes, and blanche hem, And grynde hem 
with sugoMr ^ water into faire mylke ; and take ryse, and seth. And whan 
they beth wel y-sodde, take hem vppe, and caste hem to the almondes mylke, 
and lete hem boile togidre til thei be thikk ; And then take the brawne of a 
Capon, and tese hit smaH, And caste ther<;to ; and then take Sugur and salt, 
and caste thereto, and serue hit forth in manor of mortrewes. 

Buknade. ^ Take veel, keed, or heil, and boyle hem in faire water or ellcs 
in good fressh broth, and smyte hem in peces, and pike hem clene ; And drawe 
the same broth thorgh a streyno?<r, And cast there-to pfflrcelly, Isoppe, Sauge, 
ITaces and clowes, And lete boyle til ])e flessh be ynogh ; and j^en set hit fro 
the fire, and aley hit vp with rawe yolkes of eyreii, and caste thereto pouder 
ginger, and vergeous, & a litel saffron and salte, and cesoii hit vppe and serue 
it forth. 

Auter maner buknade. % Take rawe Almondes, and blanche hem, and 
grynde hem, and draw hem thorgh a streyno<<r with fressh broth and wync 
into good stiff mylke ; And theii take veel, kede, or hcil, and -parhoile hem 
in fressh broth, and pike hem clcne, and cast him thereto ; take Clowes, 
maces, and herbes, and lete hem boile ynowe ; And theil caste a lituH Sugur, 
pouder ginger, and salt, and serue him forth. 

Brest de mottofi in sauce. ^ Take faire brestes of Mutton rested, and 
chopp hem ; And then take Vergeous, and chaaf hit in a VesseH ouer the fire, 
and caste there-to powder ginger ; and then caste the chopped brest in a dissh, 
And caste the sauce al bote there-ofi, And serue hit forth. 

Risshewes de Mary. ^ Take faire floure, and rawe yolkes of eyren, sugur, 
salt, powder ginger, and saffron, and make faire Cakes. And then take Mary, 
Sugur, powder ginger, and ley hit on the kake, and folde him togidre ; And 
then kutte hit in maner of risshewes, And fry hit in fressh grece. And then 
serue hit forth. 

Lethe ^ lory. ^ Take mylke, and caste it in a potte. And caste there-to salt 

and saffron ; and J^en take and hewe faire buttes of Calvis or porke al smalle 

and caste thereto. And take the white and yolkes of eyreil, And drawe hem 

thorgh a streynowr ; And whaii the lico?<r is at j'c boyling, caste there-to the 

1 fol. 13*. - fol. 14. ^Lait, 



86 COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. TANSEY, EROYSE, GELY. 

eyrefi, And a lituH; Ale, And ^tyrre till hit crudde ; And if thou wilt haue hit 
farced, take mylke, and make hit scalding hote, And cast there-to rawe yolkes 
of eyreii, sugur, powder ginger, Peper, clowes, and maces, And lete hit not 
fully boyle ; And theii take a faire lynnen clothe, and presse the cruddes 
there-on, and then leche it ; And ley ])e leches .ij. or iij. in a dissh. And cast 
saffron ther<?-on in the dissh, And so senie hit forth al hote. 

Tansey. ^ Take faire Tansey, and grinde it in a mortcr ; And take eyreii, 
yolkes and white, And drawe hem thorgh a streynom-, and streyne also }>e 
luse of ]>e Tansey thorgh a streyno?<r ; and medle the egges and the luse 
togidre ; And take faire grece, and cast hit in a pan, and sette ouer J^e fyre til 
hit mylte ; and caste ^e stuffe thcreoii, and gader hit togidre with, a sawcer or 
a dissh, as ]7ou wilt haue hit more or lasse ; And turne hit in j^e panne onys 
or twies, And so seme it forth hote, yleched. 

Froyse. ^ Take egges, and drawe the yolkes and the white thorgh a 
Streyno?/r ; And thefi take faire beef or veel, and seth hit til hit be ynogh ; and 
)7eii hewe hit colde or hote, al smaH, And medle the rawe beef or veel and 
the egges togidre, and caste therc-to saffroii, salt, And powder of peper, And 
medle al togidre. And theii take a fryng pan, and sette ouer the fire, and 
caste there-in fressh grece, and make hit hote ; And theii cast the stuff there-ofi 
and stirre hit well in the paii till hit come togidre ; And whaii hit is com weH 
togidre, caste there-on in j^e paii a ^ dissh, and presse hit togidre, And turne 
hit, if hit be nede, fore clevyng in the turnyng, caste into ]>c paii more grece, 
but twrne hit ones or ij ; ^ And take hit vppe fro the fire. And leche it in faire 
peces, & serue forth. 

Gely. ^ Take Calucs fete, and scalde hem faire, and ley hem in faire water, 
and late hem wex white ; Also take ho^os of fele,^ and ley hem in faire water 
fore to soke outc J^e blode ; And ]?eii take hem oute of ]>e water, and ley hem 
in a faire lynnen clothe, and lete the water reii oute ; And jieh take a faire 
scoured potte, and put al thes hojos and calues fete ])erm ; And J^eii take good 
white wyii, that woH hold colloure, or elles fyne claret wyne, and caste there- 
to a porcion), and none oj^er licoure, that the flessh be ouer-wose* with al ; and 
sette hit ouer the fire, and boile hit, and skem hit clene. Whari hit is boylled 
te?2der ynowe, take vppe the flessh in a faire bolle. And save wel ]>e licoure ; 
and loke that Jpou have faire sides of pigges, And faire smale chekynes 
scalded, and drawe hem, ([and the] legges and [the fete] on),'^ and wassh 

1 fol. lib. 2 t-^yies^ twice. ^ Douce MS. ; hovgliijS of veil. 

* Douce MS. reads, nere wese u'lih-alle. 

s Thus Douce MS.: Harl. MS. hem legges and sette on. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. GUISSELL, STEWED PEARS. 87 

faire, and caste hem in j^e same first broth, And set hit ayeii oner the fire, 
and skym hit clene, and lete a man euere-more kepe hit, and blow of j^e 
grauey ; And in case that j^e lico^/r waste awey, cast more of the same wyne 
^'ere-to ; And put ])i honde there-to. And, if thi honde be cla?«my. Hit is a 
signe ]7at it is gode ; and lete not J^e flessh be so moche ysod that hit may here 
no kuttyng ; And then take hit vppe, and ley hit on a faire clothe, and set 
cute the licoure fro the fire ; And put a fewe coles vnder ]ie vesseH J^at ]>e 
lycouri? is yn ; and take salt, pouder of peper, and good quantite of saffron, 
(that hit haue faire Ambur colo?<r,) and a good quantite of vinegre ; And 
loke that hit be sauery of the salt and of the vinegre, & faire of colo«r of 
saffron ; And put hit in a faire lyneii clothe, And sette ynder-neth a faire 
dissh, and late hit refi thorgh the cloth so oft j^at hit ren clene ^; And if 
J70U seest that hit hath to lituH of the ^vinegre, or salt, or saffron, caste 
thereto more, after thi discrecion) ; And then kut faire sidde ribbes of ]>e 
sides of pigges, and ley hem oil a chargeoi^r or on a dissh,^ And set hit faire 
oii a colde place, and powre ]>e gely Jieroii; And then take faire blanched 
almondes, and caste anone thereon er hit kele, and foilles of tried pared 
ginger ; and lete stonde to kele. 

[GuisseH^]. *^ Take faire capon broth, or of beef. And sette hit ouer the 
fire, and caste ])erto myced sauge, parcelly and saffron. And lete boile ; 
And streyn the white and fe yolke of egges thorgh a streynoja', and caste 
there-to faire grated brede, and medle hit togidre with thi honde, And 
caste the stuff to the broth into ])e pan ; And stirre it faire and softe til hit 
corae togidre, and crudded ; And ])eh seme it forth bote. 

Peris in Syrippe. ^ Take Wardens, and cast hem in a faire potte. And 
boile hem til fei beii tendre ; and take hem vppe, and pare hem in ij. or in iij . 
And take powder of Caneil, a good quantite, and cast hit in good red wyne, 
And cast sug?<r thereto, and put hit in an ertheii potte. And lete boile ; And 
then cast the peris thereto, And late hem boile togidre awhile ; take powder 
of ginger, And a liteH saffron to colloure hit with. And loke that hit be 
poynante/ And also Doucet/ 

Peris in compost. ^ Take Wyne, caneH, And a grete dele of white Sugur, 
And sette hit ouer the fire, And hete hit but a lituH, and nojt boyle ; And 

^ Douce MS. clere. 

^ Douce MS. adds [& pull the loynes of the chekyne iche from oth^'re, and take awey the 
skyn, and puUe hem [iu] q?/«rtres, aud ley a qnniUr of a chikync and a rihbe of the pygge 
to-gedrys on a dissh.] 

3 Taken from Douce MS. ^ fol. 15. 



88 COOKERY BOOK II. HAUL. 4016. CHARE DE WARDONE, MAWMENE. 

draTve hit tliorgli a streyiio?<r ; And then take ^ faire dates, and y-take oute 
the stones, and leche hem in faire gobettes al thyfi, and cast there-to ; And 
theii take pere Wardones, and pare hem, And seth hem, And leche hem in 
iaire gobettes, and pike oute the core, and cast hem to the Syrypp* ; And take 
a lituH Saundres, and caste there-to in the boylyng, And loke that hit stonde 
well, with Gynger, Sugur, And well aley hit w?'tA canell, and cast [salt] ^ 
thereto, and lete boyle ; And theii caste it oute in a treyii ^vesseH, And lete 
kele ; And theii pare clene rasinges* of ginger, & temper he»i ij. or iij. dales, 
in wyne, And after, ley hem in clarefied hony colde, aH a day or a night ; 
And ]>en take the rasons^ oute of the hony. And caste hem to the peres in 
composte ; And theii seme hit forth with sirippe, aH colde, And nought bote. 

Chare de Wardone. % Take peer Wardens, and seth hem in wine or water ; 
And theii take hem vppi?, and grinde hem in a morter, and drawe hem thorgh 
a streynoure with the licowr ; ^ And put hem in a potte with Sug«<r, or ellej 
with clarefiede hony and caneH ynowe, And lete hem boile ; And theii take 
hit irom the fire. And lete kele, and caste there-to rawe yolkes of eyreii, til hit 
be thik, and caste thereto powder of ginger ynowe ; And serue hit forth in 
maner of Ryse. And if hit be in lentoii tyme, leve the yolkes of eyreii. And 
lete the remnawnt boyle so longe, til it be so thikk as though hit were y- 
tempered with yolkes of eyreii, in maner as A maii sethej" charge de quyns ; 
And thefa serue hit forth m maner of Rys. 

Mawmene. ^ Take vernage, or oj7er strenger wyne of the best that a maii 
may finde, and put hit in a potte, and cast there-to a gode quantite of powder 
Canell, And sette hit oner the fire, And yif hit a hete ; And theii wring oute 
softe thorgh a streyno?^r, that Jjc draff go not oute, And put in a faire potte ; 
take and pike newe faire pynes, And wassh hem clene in wyne, And caste 
of hem a grete q«<rtntite j^ere-to ; And take white sugur ynowe, as moche as 
thi licoz<r is, And cast there-to ; and take confeccions or charge " de quyns, a 
goode quantite, and cast thereto ; and drawe a few saundres with stronge 
wyne thorgh a StreynoMr, and cast there to ; And put al in a potte ; And cast 
there-to a good quantite of Clowes, and sette hit ouer the fire, & gif hit a 
boyling; And take Almondes,' and drawe hem 'with mighti wyne thorgh a 
streynoMr ; And at the first boiling, ^a-ley hit vp, & yeve ®hit a boyle ; and ^ley 
hit vp with ale, and gif hit a boyle, and sette hit fro the fire ; and caste 

1 Douce MS. 2 Douce MS. ^ fol. lob. MS. repeats 'vesselk,' treyne is treeu, wooden. 

^ shavings, parings. * Douce MS. iv\th-out eny lieour, 

* ? MS. ; for chare. " D. ami/dons. ^ fol. 16. ^-^ D. omits from a-lei/ . . . and. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. EELS, BALLOK BROTH. 89 

thereto tesid brawne of Fesaunte, p«Hrich, or capon, a good quantite, and 
ceson hit vppi? with pouder of ginger ynogh, and a lituU saffron and salt ; 
And if hit be stronge,' aley hit with vinegre of ^ swete wyn, and dresse hit 
flatte with the bak of a Saucer or A ladeli ; And as thou dressest hit with 
the saucer in vincgr(3^ or mighty wyne, wete the saucer or ladeli fore cleving, 
[and loke]* that hit haue sugur right ynogh, And serve hit forth. 

Longe Wortes de Peson^. ^ Take grene pesyfi, and wassh hem clene, And 
cast hem in a potte, and boyle hem til they breke ; and then take hem vppe 
fro the fire, and putte hem in the broth in an other vesseH ; And lete hem 
kele ; And drawe hem thorgh a Streynowr into a faire potte. And theii take 
oynones in ij. or iij. peces ; And take hole wortes, and boyle hem in fayre 
water ; And then take hem vppe, And ley hem oil the faire horde, And kutte 
hem in .iij. or in .iiij. peces ; And caste hem and the oynons into ])at potte 
with the di-aweii peseii, and late hem boile togidre til they be aH tendur, 
And theii take faire oile and fray, or ellej f ressh broth of some manor fissh, 
(if Jiou maist, oyle a quantite), ^ And caste thereto saffroii, and salt a quantite. 
And lete hem boyle wel togidre til they befi ynogh ; and stere hem weH 
euermore, And serue hem forthe. 

Elys in Sorre. ^ Take eles, and fie hem, and choppe hem in faire colpons, 
And wassh hem clene, and putte hem in a faire potte ; and theii take p«rcelly, 
oynons, and shrede togidre to the eles ; And then take pouder of peper, & ^ 
broth of fissh, and set hit ouer the fire, and lete hem boyle togidre ; And ]>en 
take a lofe of brede, and alay the brede in the j^e same broth, And drawe hit 
thorgh a streynoi<r ; And whaii the eles beil almoost y-sodde ynowe, caste 
there-to ; ' And lete hem boile togidre ; and take hem yp fro ]>e fire, and cast 
yer-to salte, vinegre, And serue hit forth. 

®Ballok broth. ^ Take elys, and fie hem, and kutte hem in colpons, and 
caste hem into a potte with faire water/ and then take p«rcelly, and oynons, 
and shrede hem, not to smale ; And take Clowes, Maces, pouder of Peper, 
pouder of CaneH, And a gode porciori of wyne, and cast thereto, And lete 
hem boyle ; And whaii Jjc eles beth wel y-boiled, take faire stokfissh, and do 

^ Douce MS. to stondyng. * Douce MS. vernage or. 

^ Douce MS. vernage. ■* Added from Douce MS. 

* Douce MS. reads here: other elles fressb broth of some maner of fressh fisshe (yffe thou 
have none oile) a quantite. 

^ Douce MS. adds : canelle, & clowes and maces, & cast ther-to, and take fressh, betivecn 
& and broth. 

' Douce MS. adds : and alay hit tber-witA, & cast wyn« ther-to and lete hem buille to- 
gederys : & then take hem vppe fro the fyre and cast ther-to wyne, &c. * fol. 166. 



90 COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016, SOPS, MUSCLES, MORTREWES. 

a-wey ]>e skyn, and caste thereto, And lete boyle. And whan the eles ben 
weli y-boyled, take faire bernie, and put 'perto, And lete boyle awhile; and 
J^eil take Saffron and salt, and a litel viuegre, and cast thereto ; And lete 
s^rue hit forthe fore gode potage. 

Soppes Dorre. ^ Take rawe Almondes, And grynde hem in A morter, And 
temper hem -with wjh and drawe hem thorgh a streynowr; And lete hem 
boyle, And cast there-to Saffron, Sugur, and salt ; And theii take a paynmam, 
And kut him and tost him. And wete him in wyne, And ley hem in a dissh, 
and caste the siryppe thereon, and maki? a dregge ' of ponder ginger, sug«<r, 
CaneH, Clowes, and maces, And cast thereon ; And whan hit is I-Dressed, 
seme it forth fore a good potage. 

Soppes pci«r Chamberleyne. ^ Take wyne, CancH, powder ginger, sugur/ 
of echo a porcion ; And cast aH in a Streyuowr, And honge hit on a pyii, And 
late hit ren thorgh a streynoia* twies or thrics, til hit rcfi clere ; And then 
take paynmam, And kutte hit in a maner of Browes, And tost hit. And ley 
hit in a dissli, and caste blanche ponder there-oil ynogli ; And theii cast the 
same licotir vppoii ]>e Soppes, and serue hit forthe fore a good potage. 

Muscules in brotli. ^ Take Muscules, And sith* hem, And pike hem oute 
of the shell; And drawe the broth thorgli a streynoMr into a faire vesseil, 
And sette hit on the fire ; And then take faire brede, and stepe hit with ]>e 
same ^ broth, and draw hit thorgh a streynoMr, And cast in-to a potte with j^e 
sewe ; and menge * oynons, wyn, and poudcr peper, and lete boyle ; & cast 
there-to the Musculis and ponder ginger, and saflVon, and salte ; And theii 
serue ye hit forthe. 

Muscules in Shelle. ^ Take and pike faire musculis. And cast hem in a 
potte ; and caste hem to, myced oynons, And a good quantite of peper and 
wyne, And a lite vynegre ; And assone as tliei bigyuncth to gape, take hem 
from Ipe fire, and serue hit forthe with the same broth in a dissh al bote. 

Mortrewes of Pesyn. % Take a Gurnard, or elles a Codling, (the lyuer And 
Ipe Spawne w«'t/i-in him), And seth him ynowe in faire water; and pike oute 
the bones, and grinde the fissh in a morter, and temper hit with almond 
mylke, and caste-to grated brede ; and J^eii take hit vppe, and put hit in a 
faire potte, and lete boyle ; And caste thereto sugur, SafFeron, and salte ; and 
serue hit in a dissh in maner of mortrewes of flessh, And caste powder of 
Ginger there- oii. 

Blanche porrey. ^ Take blanche almondes. And grinde hem, and drawe 

1 dredge. Douce MS. dragge. "seethe, boil. ^ i'ol. 17. 

* Douce MS. myuced; see next recipe. 



COOKEKY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. PRENADE, ALMOND-CREAM. 91 

hem -with sugur water thorgli a streyno?<r into a good stuff mylke into a 
potte ; and ]>en take ^e white of lekes, and hew hem smaH, and grynde hem 
in a Tnorter witli brede ; and J^eil cast al to j^e mylke into ]>e potte, and caste 
]>erto siigur and salt, and lete boyle ; And setB feyre poudrid eles in faire 
water ynowe, and broile hem on a gredreil ; and kut hem in faire longe peces, 
and ley two or thre in a dissh. togidre as ye do venesofi with ffurmenty, 
And s^nie it forthe. 

CaudeH ffery. ^ Take rawe yolkes of ep-efi and trie hem, and bake hem ; 
and take good wyno, and warrae hit ouer the fire in a potte, And cast there- 
to the yolkes, and stere hit weH, butte lete hit not boyle til hit thikke ; ^ and 
then caste therc-to sugur and salt, and seme hit forth as mortrewes. 

Prenade.- — Take wyfi, and put hit in a potte, and clarefied honey, 
sawndres, pouder of peper, Cauel, Clowes, Maces, Safiroil, pynes, myced dates, 
& reysons, And cast thereto a litiil vinegre, and sette hit ouer the fire, and 
lete hit boyle ; and setli figges in wyn and grynde hem, and draw hem 
thorgh a streynowr, and cast thereto, and let boile al togidre. And J^eii take 
floure, saffron, sugur, and faire water, and make faire kakes, and late hem be 
thyii ynogli ; And j^eii kutte hem like losinges ; And ]>en caste hem in faire 
oyle, and fry hem a litul while ; And then take hem vp ouie of the pan, and 
caste hem to j<e wesscH with the sirippe, altogidre, in a dissh ; And therefore 
thi sirripe most be rennyng ynow, and nojt to stiff ; and so seme it forth fore 
a good potage, in faire disshes aH bote. 

Froyte de almondes.^ ^ Take blak sugur and coldc water, and caste the 
sugur and ])e water in a potte ; and lete liera boile togidre, and salt, and skeme 
hem clene, and let hit kele ; And j^cu take Almoudes, and blanche hem clene, 
and stampe h(!m in a morter al smal, and drawe hem thik ynowe thorgh a 
streyno?/r with sugur water, into a faire vesseH. And if hit so be j^at the 
mylke be not swete, take white sugwr and cast thereto ; And serue hit forth in 
manor of potage, And namly in lentoii tyme. 

Fried creme de almondes. ^ Take Almondes, and blanche hem, and 
wassh hem in faire water, and bray hem small in a morter with faire water ; 
And then take hem and J^e water togidre som-what thik, and drawe hem 
I'orgh a streynoMr into a faire potte, And set hem ouer the fire, and lete hem 
boyle ones; And ]>en take hem downe, and cast thereto Salte, and lete stonde 
a forlonge wey or .ij. And cast a lituU yincgre ]>erto ; And ]>en cast hit on a 
faire lynneil cloth that *is faire wassh, and jje water y-wronge oute there-of ; 
' fol. 176. 2 Called Bnias in D. ' Douce MS. Froydelet dalmaiides. * fol. 18. 



92 COOKERY BOOK 11. HARL, 4016. BOILD CREME, LETLARDES. 

and cast hit ali abrode with the laduH, and lete men hold the cloth al abrode ; 
and ]>tu. take a ladiU, and draw vndur j^e cloth, and draw awey ]>e water aH 
that a man may. And ])en gadur al ]>e creme togidur in J^e clothe ; And ]>en 
take J7e cloth with the creme, and hange hit vppon a ppl, and lete j^e water 
droppe oute two or thre houres or more ; And theii take hit of ]>e cloth, and 
putte hit in a hoH of tre, And caste Sug;<r ynogh j^ereto and a litul salt. And 
if hit wex to thik, take swete wyne, and temper hit with ale ; And ]>en take 
reysons of corannce, clene y-wassh, and put hem there-in, that Ipej he not 
seyii; And whan hit is dressed in maner of mortrewes, take rede anneys in 
confite, or ellcs levis of Burage,^ and set jiere-on in a dissh. 

Creme boiled. ^ Take mylke, and boile hit ; And J»en take yolkes of eyreii, 
and try hem fro the white, and drawe hem thorgh a streynoMr, and cast hem 
into ]>e mylke ; and then sette hit on j^e fire, and hete hit hote, and lete not 
boyle ; and stirre it wel til hit be som-what thik ; And caste thereto sugur 
and salte ; and kut ]>en fairc paynmam soppes, and caste the soppes there-oil, 
And s^;iie it in manf/- of potage. 

Letlardes. ^ Take mylke scalding hote ; And take eyrefi, the yolkes and 
the white, and drawe hem thorgh a streyuowr, and caste to ]>c mylke ; And 
'pen drawe ]>e iuce of herbes, which that Jiou wiH, so ]?at j^ey beii goode, and 
drawe hem thorgh a stre}Tio?<r. And whan the mylke bigynneth to crudde, 
caste ]>e luce thereto, if j'ou wilt haue it grene ; And if ]iou wilt haue it rede, 
take Saundres, and cast to ]>e mylke whaii it croddeth, and leue J^e herbes ; 
And if ]>ou wilt haue hit yelowe, take Saffron, and caste to j^e mylke whaii 
hit cruddeth, and leve ]>e Saundres ; And if Jiou wilt haue it of al J^es colowrs, 
take a potte with mylke & luse of herbes, and anoper potte with mylke 
and saffron ; And anoper ^ potte with mylke and saundres, and put hem al in 
a lynnen cloj^e, and presse hem al togidur ; And if pon wilt haue it of one 
colowr, take but one cloth,' and streyne it in a cloth in ]>e same maner, and 
bete oil ]>e clothe with a ladeH or a Skymo?<r, to make sad or* flatte ; and 
leche it faire with a knyfe, and fry the leches in a paii with a lituH fressh 
grece ; And take a lituH, and put hit in a dissh, and serue it forth. 

Leche lumbarde. ^ Take Dates, and do awey ]>e stones ; and seth hem in 
swete wyne ; and take hem vppe, and grinde hem in a morter, and drawe hem 
]7orgh a streyno?<r with a lituH swete wyne and sugur ; and caste hem in a 
potte, and lete boyle til it be stiff; and pen take hem vppe, and ley hem vp 
apofi a horde ; and then take pouder ginger, CaneH, and wyfii, and melle al 
1 D. adds Jlowres. 2 f(ji_ jgA. ^ Douce MS. of these. •* Douce MS. and. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. CRYSPES, POTEROUS. 93 

togidre in thi honde, and make it so stiff that hit woH be leclied ; And if 
hit be not stiff ynowe, take hard yolkes of eyreil and creme thereon, or elles 
grated brede, and make it thik yuogh ; take Clarey, and caste thereto in 
maner of sirippe, whan J'ou shaH serue hit forthe. 

Anter leche lumbard. ^ Take faire hony, and clarefy it in ]>e fire til hit ^ 
be stiff ynowe ; and then take hit vppe and ley hit on a borde ; and take faire 
grated brede and ponder of peper, and meli al togidre with thi honde, til hit 
be so stiff that hit wol be leched; and leche hit. And then take wyne, 
ponder of Gjnger, CaneH, and a litel clarefied hony, and lete reii thorgh a 
streynoMr, and cast J^e sirip there- on, whan that thou shaH serue hit in stede 
of Clarre. 

Cryspes. ^ Take white of eyren, Milke, and fyne floure, and bete hit 
togidre, and drawe hit thorgh a streyno?a', so that hit be rennyng, and noght 
to stiff; and caste there- to sugur and salt. And tlien take a chaffur ful of 
fressh grece boy ling; and J-en put thi honde in the batur ^and lete the hater 
refi thorgh thi fingers into ])e chaffur ; And whan it is ren togidre in the 
chaffre, and is ynowe, take a Skymowr, and take hit oute of the chaffur, and 
putte oute al the grece, And lete ren ; And putte hit in a faire dissh, and cast 
sngur thereon ynow, and serue it forth. 

Poterous.^ ^ Take a shoueH of yren, and hete him brennyng bote in ]>e fire ; 
and yen take him oute of the fire, and fil him fuH of salt ; And then make a 
coffyu), and putte in the salt al holowe, j^e shappe of a treyii dissh ; and sette 
]>e pan and J-e salt oner the fire ayen, til j^e salt be brewnyng bote ; and then 
cast the white and J^e yolkes of rawe eyreii in-to Jje hole of salt, and lete 
stonde in J^e fire til hit be half hard ; And then put a dissh half of salt ; And 
]>eT\ take a dressing knyfe, and put vnder j^e salt ^ and jte pan, and heve hit 
vppe fro the fire, that j^e coffjn with the eyreii breke not ; And ]}en sette hit 
in ])e dissh with the salt, and serue it forth. 

Risshewes. % Take figges, and grinde hem ali rawe in a morter, and cast 
a lituH fraied oyle there-to ; And Jiefi take hem vppe yn a vesseH, and caste 
there-to pynes, reysyns of coraiice, myced dates, sugwr, Saffron, ponder ginger, 
and salt : And ]>en make Cakes of floure, Sugwr, salt, and rolle ]>e stuff in thi 
honde, and couche it in j>e Cakes, and folde hem togidur as risshewes. And 
fry hem in oyle, and serue hem forth. 

^ Douce MS. adds after hit : ' wex hard : & take hard yolkes of eyrene & cryme hem a 
grett quawtite ther-to, till it,' &c. « fol. 19. ^ jjarl. MS. Poterons. 

* MS. repeats ' And then take a dressing knyfe, and putte vnder the salt.' 



94 COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. TAYLOURS, GYNGAL"TREY. 

Potage de egges} ^ Take faire water and cast in a faire frying pan, or ellej 
in an ofer vesseH, til hit boyle, and skeme it weli ; And then breke faire rawe 
egges, and caste hem in ]?e water, And lete ]>e water stonde stil ouer jie fire, 
and lete the egges boyle harder or nessher as ]>ou. wilt. 

Tayl02<rs. 'jj Take almondes, and grynde hem raw in a raorter, and temper 
hit -with wyne and a litul water; And drawe hit j^orgh a streyno?<r into a 
goode stiff mylke into a potte ; and caste thereto reysons of coraii??ce, and grete 
reysons, myced Dates, Clowes, Maces, Ponder of Pepi?r, Canel, saffron a good 
quantite, and salt ; and sette hem ouere the fire. And lete al boyle togidre 
awhile ; And alay hit vp with floure of Ryse, or elles grated brede, and cast 
there-to sugur and salt. And seme hit forth in maner of mortrewes, and caste 
there-on ponder ginger in J^e dissh. 

Malmens bastard. ^ Take a poteH: of clarefied hony, and a ponnde of 
pynes,^and I. pounde of Eeysons of coraunce, Saundres, ponder caneH, And ij. 
galons of wyne or ale, and ponder pep^r, and cast al in a potte, And skeme 
hit clene ; And ]>en take iij. ii. pounde* Almondes,^ and stepe to-gidre, And 
drawe hem ]7orgh a streyno2<r; And whan the potte boyleth, cast j^e licot^r to, 
& aley hit vp al stonding; And ]>en take ponder ginger, salt m^ saffron), and 
cesoil hit vppi?, and serue hit forth in a dissh al bote, and salt; And cast 
ponder ginger thereon) in ]>e dissh, and seme it forth. 

Gyngautrey.' ^ Take paunches and lyuers of a codlyng, or haddok, or elles 
kelyng, and seth hem in faire water ; And take hem vppe oii a faire horde, 
& myce the panches smaH; And j^en take fressh broth of fressh Salmon, or of 
eles, or of turbut, and cast J'e myced paunches ther^-to, And ponder of peper, 
and lete boyle ; And then take the broth that j^e paunches and lyuers were 
y-sodde in, And stepe there-in faire brede, and drawe hit thorgh a streyno«<r ; 
And j^en myce Jje lyuers in faire peces ; And whan the paunche hath wel 
y-boyled in J^e lico«<r,^ caste \>e lyuers thereto, and lete boyle a while; And 
serne hit forth bote for gode potage ; and late hit be som-dele rennynge. 

ffygey. ^ Take figges, and caste hem in a potte, And cast there-to wyne or 
Ale, ^and lete hem boile, And take hem vppe, and bray hem in a morter ; 
And ])eh take brede, and stepe in j^e same licoi<r, and cast thereto. And drawe 
hem Jjorgh a streynowr, and caste hit in a faire potte with wyne or ale ; and 

* D. Torched ef/ges. "^ fol. I9b. ^ D. pepyr pynes. •* 3 pounds of pounded. 

* Amydones, Douce MS. wJiick adds, a galone of wyne, & a gode quawtite of vynegre 
& lete. ^ Douce MS. and. ' Harl. MS. Gyngantrey. 

8 Douce MS. adds : cast the Hour tlier-to and lete buille awhile, & then ; the Hour being 
the brede and broth. ^ fol. 20. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. RAPES, JUSSELL. 95 

j^efi take figes, and kutte hem smale, pynes, saundres, pouder of peper, a lituH 
satFiofi and salt, and cast ]>er-to, and serue hit stonding. 

Chaudewyni?. ^ Take ]7e Guttes of fressh Samon), and do awey the gaH; and 
slytte hem, and caste hem in a potte, and boyle hem in water right weU ; 
And ley hem vpofl a horde, and hewe hem ; And fien stepe brede in J^e same 
lico?a', And cast soni of the samon broth thereto, And drawe aH thorgh a 
streyno?n' ; and then caste the heweii guttes and ]>e drawefi brede in a potte, 
and a lituH wyii, pouder of Caneli, or saffron, And lete boyle togidre ; And 
cast ther<j-to pouder of pept^r, Vinegre, and salt ; And lete hit be rennyng. 

Rapes. ^' Take half figges and half reysons, and boile hem in wyii, and 
take hem vp, and bray hem in a morter, And drawe hem with ]>e same lico2<r 
thorgh a streyno?a-, so thik that hit be stonding ; And then take resons of 
corance, Pynes, Clowes, Maces, sugur of Cipris, and cast J^er^^to, and put hit 
in a faire potte ; And theil take a fewe Saundres, pouder peper, CaneH, 
and a lituH Saffron ; And if hit be not stonding ynogh, take a lituii floure of 
Amidons, And drawe hit with wyn) thorgh a streyno?<r, And cast there-to salt, 
and seme it forth stondyng. 

lussheH. ^ Take the ffry of a pyke, and cast hit rawe in a raorter, and 
cast there -to myced^ brede grated, and bray hem asmaH as J'ou maist ; And if 
hit be to stonding, caste there-to a lituH mylke of Almondes, And bray hit 
togidre, and strek- hit togidre with thi honde ; And cast there-to a lituH saffron 
with Sugur and salt, And put aH in a treeil boH, and truH^ hit to-gidre with 
thi honde ; And loke Jiat hit be nojt to thik, but as ''a mail may powre it oute 
of ]>e boH ; And j^efi take a pail, and caste thereto faire grauey of a pike, or of 
a fressh samoil, and drawe hit thorgh a streyno?<r, and sette it ouer the fire ; 
and take faire pffvcely and Sauge, and caste there-to, and lete hit boile, and 
caste there-to a lituH saffron and salt ; And whail hit hath boy led a while, sterre 
hit fast, and caste the stuff thereto, and ster hit euennore. And whaii hit is 
al oute of the boile, [cast it]^ a liteH and a liteH into Jie pan, stere it softer 
and softer til hit be roil to-gidre ; And jjen take a ladeH or a skjmmouv, and 
drawe hit togidi-e soft til hit come to-gidre. And take hit fro j^e fire, and sette 
]>e vesseli oil a fewe colys, and lete hit wax stiff be his owne accorde, and 
then serue it forth with a skymour, like as fou. wolt serue lusseH, aH bote. 

Gele of pesoil. ^ Take a pike newe right y-drawe,^ and smyte him in faire 

1 MS. myced myced. D. maijnchete. - Douce MS. strike. 

3 Ptwillf, as Douce MS. * fol. 20^. 5 Added from Douce MS. 

® Douce MS. : Draw new pikes and new righ, and smyte hem. 



96 COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. CAUDLES, OIL SOPS. 

pecep, and sethe liim in same lico?<r as J^ou doest Gele of flesi^fi/ And whan hit 
is ynopii, take hit vppe ; And ])tn take p^'rches, tenches, elys, & kutte hem 
in faire peces, and wassh hem, and put hem in the same licoMr ; and loke that 
thou haue fissli ynogli, that the licoure may be stiff ynowe ; And in caas ]7at 
J70U faile fissB, that )70u hast not ynojzli to make gely, take faire soundes of 
watered stokfissh, or elles of ffresh MilleweH, or elles of kelyng,^ and cast 
thereto ; and sette ouer j^e fire, and lete it boyle ; and Jiat woH help hit to gele ; 
and skein clone j^e grave; And whan hit is ynogli, lete nojt the fissh hreke, 
but take vppe the fissh hole, and set the lico?a- fro the fire, and put coles 
vndernetii the vesseH as j^ou doest afore to the o]>er gele of flessK, with 
vinegre, pouder of peper, saffron & salt ; And J^eii take a pike, p^rche, and 
tenche, and pul of the skyil, And put a pece of one and a pece of anoj/er in a 
faire dissh, as j^ou dost oj^er gele of fflesh, And poure the lico?<r there-on, as ]iou 
doest oj^er gele of flessh ; and cast there-on almondes blanched, and foyles of 
tried ^ginger pared, and set hit in a colde place, and lete hit gele. 

CaudeH. ^ Take faire tryed yolkes of eyren, and cast in a potte ; and take 
good ale, or elles good wyn, a quautite, and sette it ouer j^e fire/ And whan 
hit is at boyling, take it fro the fire, and caste };ere-to saffron, salt, Sugur ; 
and ceson hit vppe, and serae hit forth bote. 

Oyle soppes. ^ Take a good quantite of oynons, and myce hem, nojt to 
smale, & seth hem in faire water. And take hem vppe ; and then take a 
good quantite of stale ale, as .iij. galons. And there-to take a pynte of goode 
oyle that is fraied, and cast the oynons there-to, And lete al boyle togidre a 
grete [while] ; ^ and caste there-to Saffron and salt. And j^en put brede, in 
maner of brewes, and cast the licowr there-oil, and seme hit forth bote. 

CaudeH de Almondes. ^ Take rawe almondes, and grinde hem. And 
temper hem with goode ale and a litul water; and drawe hem thorgli a 
streynowr into a faire potte, and lete hit boyle awhile; And cast there-to 
saffron, Sugur and salt, and seme hit forth hote. 

*Cheaut de Almondes. ^ Take almondes, and blanche hem, and grynde hem 
with faire water, and drawe hem thorgli a streynoMr, and sette hem on the 
fire, and lete hem boyle ones ; and cast there-to sugur and salt, And seme it 
forth hote. 

Lente ffruto^^rs. ^ Take goode floure. Ale yeest,^ saffron, and salt, and bete 
al to-gidre as thik as o]7er maner fruto?<rs of fiiesh ; and ]>en take Appels, and 

I D. kodelyng. 2 foi, 21, 3 Douce MS. wile. 

* Chaudkt Douce MS. * D. however reads Ale and yeest. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. DISHES OF FRUIT. 97 

pare hem, and kut hem in maner of ffrutowrs, and wete hem in ]>e batur vp 
and downe, and fry hem in oyle, and cast hem in a dissh, and cast sug?<r 
]ieroh ynowe, and serue hem forth hote. 

[Lesenges Fries.'] ^ Take floure, water, saffron, sug«<r, and salt, and 
make fyne paast }er-of, ^and faire thyfi kakes ; and kutte hem like losenges, 
and fry hem in fyne oile, and serue hem forthe hote in a dissh in lenten tyme. 

[Risschewes de frute.^] ^ Take ffigges, and grinde hem in a morter al smal 
with a liteH oyle, and grynde with hem, clowes, and maces ; and then take 
hem vppe i«-to a dissh, and caste thereto pynes, saundres, reisons of corauwce, 
myced dates, ponder of Peper, CaneH, Saffron, and salt ; And then make fyne 
paast of floure, water, sugur, saffron, and salt, And make there-of faire kakes ; 
and then rolle the stuff in thi honde, and couche hit in J^e kakes ; kutte hem, 
and so folde hem [togedrys] * as risshewes, And fry hem in goode Oyle, And 
serue hem forthe hote. 

[Trayne roste.^] ^ Take Dates and figges, and kutte hem in a peny 
brede ; And J7en take grete reysons and blanched almondes, and prik hem 
thorgh with a nedel into a threde of a mannys length, and one of one frute 
and a-no)7er of a-no|7er frute ; and ]7en bynde the threde with the frute 
A-bought a rownde spate, endelonge ]>e spete, in maner of an hasselet ; And 
theii take a quarte of wyne or Ale, and fyne floure,^ And make batur thereof, 
and cast thereto pouder ginger, sugur, & saffron,'' pouder of Clowes, salt; 
And make ]>e batur not fully rennyng, and noj^er stonding, but in ]>e mene, 
that hit may cleue, and ^ than rost the * treyne abought the fire in ]>e spete ; And 
j?efi cast the batur on the treyne as he turneth abough[t] the fire, so longe 
til J'e frute be hidde in the batur ; as ]70u castest ]>e batur there-on, hold a 
vesseH vndere-nethe, for^ spilling of ]>e batur/ And whan hit is y-rosted weH, 
hit wol seme a hasselet ; And then take hit vppe fro ]>e spit al hole, And kut 
hit in faire peces of a Span length. And [serue] '" of hit a pece or two in a 
dissh al hote. 

ftuynces or Wardones in paast. ^ Take and make rounde coffyns of 

paast; and take rawe quynces, and [pare]" '^hem with a knyfe, and take 

oute clene the core ; And take Sug^<r ynogh, and a lituH pouder ginger and 

stoppe the hole fuH. And ]7en couche ij. or iij. quynces or wardens in a 

Coffyn), and keuer hem. And lete hem bake ; or elles take clarefied hony in- 

stede of sugur, if thou maist none sugur; And if j^ou takest [hony],'^ put 

1 Douce MS. - fol. 2lb. 3 jjouce MS. * Douce MS. 

* Douce MS. 6 D. MS.; sugur, Harl. '^ Douce MS. ^-« D. MS.; that rost, Harl. 

» against, to stop, i" Douce MS. 'i added from D. MS. i' fol. 22. i^ Douce MS. 

7 



98 COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. FRUIT TART, CHEWETS, ETC. 

thereto a lituH pouder peper, and ginger, and put hit in ])e same maner in the 
quynces or wardens, and late hem bake ynogh. 

'Rastons. ^ Take fyne flours, and white of eyren, and a litul of the yolkes ; 
And then take warme berm, and put al thes togidre, and bete hem togidre 
with thi honde so longe til hit be'^ short and thik ynogh. And caste sugt^r 
ynowe thereto ; And j^en lete rest a while ; And then cast hit in a faire place 
in an oven), and lete bake ynogh ; And ]>en kut hit with a knyfe rownde 
aboue in maner of a crowne, and kepe ]>e crust ]7at ]>ou kuttest, and pile ^ all 
}e cremes * within togidre ; and pike hem smaH witB thi knyfe, and saue the 
sides and al J^e cruste hole wit/^oute ; And 'pen cast thi clarefied butter, and 
niedle fe creme ^ and pe buttwr togidre. And couer hit ayeii with pe cruste 
that Jjou kuttest awey ; and then put hit in the oven ayeil a litull tyme, aud 
take it cute, and serue hit forthe all bote. 

Tart de ffruyte. ^ Take figges, and seth hem in wyne, and grinde hem 
smale, And take hem vppe into a vesseH ; And take pouder pepi?r, CaneH, 
Clowes, Maces, pouder ginger, pynes,® grete reysons of corau?2ce, saffron, and 
salte, and cast thereto ; and J7en make faire lowe coffyns, and couche pis 
stuff there-in, And plonte pynes aboue ; and kut dates and fressB salmon in 
faire peces, or elles f ressh eles, and parboyle hem a lituH in wyne, and couche 
thereon; And couche'' the coffyns faire with pe same paaste, and endore the 
coffyn withoute with saffrow & almond mylke ; and set hem in Jje oveii and 
lete bake. 

[Chewettes]. ^ *Take and make faire paste of floure, water, saffron, and 
salt ; And make rownde cofyns J^ere-of ; and l^eii make stuff as Jjou doest for 
risshcshewes, and put pe stuff in pe Coffyns, and couer the coffyns with pe 
same paaste, and fry hem in goode oyle as ^^ou doest risslishewes, and serue 
hem forthe bote in the same maner. 

Lamprey I-bake. ^ Take and make a faire rounds coffyn of paast ; and 

}7en take a fressh lamprey, and lete him blode .ij. fingers within pe naueli. 

And lete him blode in a vesseH, and lete him dy in j^s sams blode ; And 

then take browne brede, and kut hit, and steps hit in vinegre, and draws hit 

]70rgB a streyno?<r ; and Jieii take j^e same blode, and pouder of CaneH, And 

cast there-to, til hit be browne ; And then cast thereto a litul pouder of 

peper and salt, and a lituH wyne, that hit be not to strongs with vynsgrs ; 

And then skald the lamprey, and pare him clene, and couche him rounde in 

1 Douce MS.; Baslons, Harl. ^ Douce MS. ^ Douce 'M^.; pike Harl. 

* Douce MS. cro?HM. * Douce MS. a'omwfs. "^ D. adds: reysyns fried iu oyle. 

" Douce MS. keue>e. * fol. 2'lb. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. LAMPREY SAUCE AND PICKLE. 99 

a coffyn ; and J^eii caste al ]>e sewe rownde abouglit vppoii him in the coffyn. 
til hit be couered ; And theii couer ]>e coffpi, and hele hit with a lydde aboue, 
save a litul hole ; and at the hole blowe in the coffyn with thi mouthe 
a good blast of wynde ; and sodenly stoppe the hole, that the wynde abide 
within ])e coffyn, to ryse up ]>e cofyfi that he fall not a-downe. And whan 
hit is a litul y-harded in J^e oven, prik the coffyii) with a pyu, for ^ brestyng - 
of ]>e coffyn ; And lete bake ynowe, And s^rue it forthe colde. And whaii 
the lamprey is ytake oute of ]>e coffyn, and I-ete,^ take the sirippe oute of 
]>e coffyn, and put hit in a chargeowr, and caste wyne ther^-to, And pouder 
of giQg(?r, And lete boyle ouer Jie fire ; And take paynmam, and kutte hit 
and wete hit yn. And ley j^e soppes yn the coffyn of j^e lamprey, And cast 
the sirippe aboue, and ete it so/ 

Sauce po«r lamprey. ^ Take a quyk lamprey, And lete him blode at ]7e 
naueH, And lete him blode in an erthen potte ; And scalde him with hey, and 
wassh hiwi * clene, and put him [on a spitte ;] ^ and sette the vesseH with J^e 
blode vnder ]>e lamprey while he rosteth. And kepe the licoure j^at droppeth 
oute of him ; And then take oynons, and myce hem small, And put hem yn a 
vesseH with wyne or water. And let hem pffrboyle right well ; And then take 
awey the water, and put hem in a faire vesseH ; And j^en take ponder of CaneH 
and wyne, And drawe hem thorgh a streynowr, and cast [hit to] *' the oynons, 
and set ouer the fire, and lete hem boyle ; And cast a lituH vinegre and 
parcely there-to, and a litul peper ; And |7en take ]>e blode and j>e dropping 
of ]>e lamprey, and cast thereto [& lete buille to-gedrys tiH it be a liteH; 
thykke, & cast therto]'' pouder ginger, vynegre, salt, and a lituH saffron; 
And whan fe lamprey is® rested ynowe, ley him in a faire chargeo2<r, And 
caste aH the sauce apon him, And so seme him forth. 

Lamprey poudred. ^ Take a lamprey poudred, and stryke away the salt 
with thi honde ; take awey the bone fro ]>e Jirote into ]?e tayle by the bely 
side. And ley him in water a day and a nyght, and scald him in water with 
strawe or hey, to stripe him with-aH ; And theii wassh him clene, and cast 
him in faire water colde, and seth him, and cast x. or xij. oynons hole vn- 
pullud, and lete hem seth togidre, and skem it ; And ]>eT\ take vp the lamprey 
and l^e oynons fro J^e water, and ley hem in a dissh tiH they beii colde aH ; 
and serue hem forthe colde with sauce GalentjTie ; and myce the oynons in ' 
the sauce, & ete hem so. 

^ against, to stop. ^ Douce MS. ; brennyng, Harl. ^ eaten. * fol. 23. 

* Douce MS. ; Harl. MS. in a faire brothe. ^ added from Douce MS. 

' added from Douce MS. * Harl. MS. is ro. ^ Douce MS.; ayid Harl. 



100 COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. LAMPRONS AND OYSTERS. 

StokfissB. in sauce. ^ Take faire brotfi of elys, or pike, or elles of fressB. 
samond, And streyn hit thorgli a streynowr ; and take faire p«rcelly, And 
hewe hem smaH, And putte the brotli and ]>e prrrcelly into an erthen potte, 
And cast ]>erto ponder ginger, and a litul vergeous. And lete hem boyle 
to-gidre ; and j^eii take faire sodden) stokfissli, and ley hit in bote water ; and 
whan jjou wilt seme it forth, take ]>e fissh fro jie water, and ley hit in a 
dissh, And caste the sauce al bote ther^-on, and seme it forth. 

Lamprons in Galentyne. ^ Take brede, and stepe it in wyne and vynegre, 
and •cast there-to CaneH, ^and drawe it thorgh a streyn owr; and do it in a 
potte, and cast ponder of peper thereto ; And take smale oynons, and myce 
hem, and fry hem in oyle, & cast ther^-to a fewe saundres, and lete hem boyle 
a litul ; And then take lawprons, and scalde hem with hey in bote water, 
and seth hem ; and J^eil b[r]oyle " hem oii a faire gredren, and ]>eT\ couche hem 
in a dissh and cast the sauce on hem, And then serue it forth. 

Lamprons ybake. ^ Take lamprons, and scalde hem witli hey ; and make 
faire paaste, and couche ij. or iij. lamprons thereon, with pouder ginger, salt 
and paper, and lete bake ; And leche samoii in faire brode peces, and bake 
hem in ]>e same maner. 

Oystres in granej. ^ Take almondes, and blanche hem, and grinde hem, 
and drawe hem J^orgh a streynoz^r with wyne, and with goode fressh broth 
into gode mylke, and sette hit on J^e fire and lete boyle ; and cast Jiereto 
Maces, clowes, Sugur, pouder of Ginger, and faire parboyled oynons myced ; 
And Jien take faire oystres, and parboile hem togidre in faire water; And 
then caste hem there-to. And lete hem boyle togidre til ^^ey ben ynowe ; and 
serue hem forth for gode potage. 

Oystres in cevey. ^ Take oystres and sheH hem and put hem in a vesseH, 
(and l^e water that is within ]>e oystres with-aH ;) And cast j^erto a litul wyne, 
And sette hem over the fire, and parboyle hem ; And j^en take faire J^e oystres 
vppe of the broth, and put hem in a faire potte ; And take ]>e same broth, and 
drawe hit thorgh a streyno?<r, and cast hit in-to j>o oystres. And sette hit oner 
the fire ; And take a lituH Of j^e same broth ayeii ; and a lituH wyne, and put 
hit yii a faire vesseH, and put j^ere-to browne crustes and pouder caneU, and 
draw hit thorgh a streynoz^r ; and myce oynons smaH, and fry hem in oyle or 
in butter, and caste hem there-to, and sette oner the fire. And whan J^e 
oystres boyleth, caste the licoure ^there-to, and cesoii hit vppe with pouder of 
peper, salt, and a litel saffron), and cast there-to a litul vinegre, ])at hit be 
1 fol. 23J. « Douce MS. bouiUe. ^ fol. 24. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. DISHES OF PIKE. 101 

poynant there-of in J»e sesenyng and browne also ; And s^rue hit fortli for a 
gode potage. 

Pike in galentyne. ^ Take a pike and setB. him ynowe in gode sauce ; And 
]>en couche him in a vessel!, that he may be y-caried yn, if J^ou wilt// And 
what tyme he is colde, take brede, and stepe hit in wyne and vinegre, and cast 
ther^-to caneH, and drawe hit j'orgli a streynowr, And do hit in a potte, And 
caste there-to pouder peper; And take smale oynons, and myce hem, And 
fry hem in oyle, and cast ther^-to a fewe saundres, and lete boyle awhile ; 
And cast aH this hote vppon ]>e pike, and cary him forth. 

Pike boyled. ^ Take and make sauce of faire water, salt, and a lituH Ale 
and parcelly ; and j^efi take a pike, and nape him, and drawe him in J^e bely, 
And slytte him thorgh the bely, bak, and hede and taile, with a knyfe in to ^ 
peces ; and smyte j^e sides in quarters, and wassh hem dene; And if thou 
wilt have him rownde, schoche him by J^o hede in ])e backe, And drawe 
him there,^ And skoche him in two or iij. peces ^ in ]>e bak, but nojt thorgli ; 
And slyt the pouuche,^ And kepe the fey or the lyuer, and kutte awey the 
gall. An d whan j^e sauce biginneth to boyle, skem hit. And wassh J^e pike, 
and cast him )7ere-in, And caste ]>e pouche and fey there-to, And lete hem 
boyle togidre ; And ]>en make the sauce thus : myce the pouche and fey^ 
[in] ^ a litul gravey of j^e pike, And cast ]7ere-to pouder of ginger, vergeows, 
mustarde, and salt, And seme him forth hote. 

Pike in brase. ^ Take CaneH, a quarte of wyne, and a lituH vinegr(?, 
And stepe there-yii tendur brede ; and thrawe it )^orgh a streynowr. And lete 
boyle -with pouder of peper ; And take the pike, and roste him splat on a 
gredire ynogh ; And cast to ]>e sauce ]>en, [with] pouder of ginger and sugt<r ; 
And ley the pike in A ^ charger, the wombe side vpward ; and then caste the 
sauce there-oii al hote, and so serue him forth. 

Anter pike in Galentyne. ^ Take browne brede, and stepe it in a quarte 

of vinegre, and a pece '' of wyne for a pike, and quartereii of pouder caneH, 

and drawe it thorgh a streynowr skilfully thik, and cast it in a potte, and lete 

boyle ; and cast there-to pouder peper, or ginger, or of clowes, and lete kele. 

And ]>en take a pike, and seth him in good sauce, and take him vp, and lete 

him kele a litul ; and ley him in a boH for to cary him yn ; and cast jte sauce 

vnder him and aboue him, that he be al y-hidde in )7e sauce ; and cary him 

whej^er euer J^ou wolt. 

1 i.e. two. 2 MS. there &. ^ Douce MS. placys. * i.e. poche of a fish, see below. 
6 Douce MS., a«rfHarl. « fol. 2ib. '' Douce MB. pi/nt. 



102 COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. SALMOISr, TROUT, CRAB, PERCH. 

Salmon fressli boiled. % Take a fressB Salmon, and drawe him in J^e bely ; 
and chyne him as a swyne, and leche him flatte with a knyfe ; and kutte the 
chyne in ij. or in .iij. peces, and roste him on a faire gredryn; & make faire 
sauce of water, p«rcelly, and salt. And whan hit begynneth to boyle, skem 
it clene, and cast ]>e peces of salmon J^ere-to, and lete hem sethe ; and )7en 
take hem vppe, and lete hem kele, and ley a pece or ij. in a dissh ; and wete 
faire foiles of p«rcely in vinegre, and caste hem yppofi J7e salmon in the 
dissh ; And J-en ye shaH: serue hit forthe colde. 

Samon roste in Sauce. ^ Take a Salmond, and cut him rounde, chyne and 
aH, and roste the peces on a gredire ; And take wyne, and pouder of CaneH, 
and drawe it J^orgli a streyno2<r ; And take smale myced oynons, and caste 
Jjere-to, and lete hem boyle ; And J^en take vynegre, or vergeo«<s, and pouder 
ginger, and cast there-to ; And j^en ley the samon in a dissh, and cast ]>e 
sirip ]>eron al bote, & serue it forth. 

Troute boyled. ^ Take a troute, and nape him ; And make faire sauce of 
water, parcely, 'and salt, and whan hit bigynneth to boile, skeme hit clene; 
and drawe him in J^e bely ; and if Jjou wilt haue him rounde, kut him in ]>e 
bakke in two or ]>Te places, but nojt )'orgh, And drawe him in ]>e sket ^ next 
the hede, as thou doest a rounde pike ; and J^e sauce is verge sauce ; or eiies 
seth j^e pouche as l^e dost ]>e pouche of a pike, and myce hem with J^e grauey, 
and pouder of ginger ; and serue him forth colde, and cast j>e foiles of p«rcelly, 
y-wet in vinegre, oil him in a dissh. 

Crabbe or Lopster boiled. ^ Take a crabbe or a lopster, and stop him in 
Jie ventc with oil of hire decs, and seth him in water, and no salt ; or elles 
stoppe him in ])e same maner, and cast him in ail oven, and bake him, and 
serue him forth colde. And his sauce is vinegre. 

Perche boiled. ^ Take a perche, and drawe him in J^e throte, and make to 
him sauce of water and salt ; And whan hit bigynneth to boile, skeme hit and 
caste l^e perche there-in, and seth him ; and take him vppe, and pul him, 
and serue him forth colde, and cast vppoii him foiles of p«rcelly. and ])e 
sau[c]e is vinegre or vergeous.^ 

fiio^^ndres boiled. ^ Take floundres, and drawe hem in the side by the hede, 
and seth^ hem, & make sauce of water and salt, and a good quantite of ale ; 
And whail hit biginneth to boile, skeme it, and caste hem there-to ; And late 
hem sethe, and serue hem forth bote ; and no sauce but salt, or as a 
mail luste. 

* fol. 25. ' Douce MS. skoch. ^ Douce MS. vert sauee. * Douce MS. scocch. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HARL, 4016. SHRIMPS, PLAICE, SOLES. 103 

* 

Shrympes. ^ Take Shrympes, and setli hem in water and a lituH salt, and 
lets hem boile ones or a lituH more. And serue hem forthe colde ; And no 
maner sauce but vinegre. 

Breme or Roche boiled. % Take a Breme or a roche, and scalde him in 
•water, and drawe him J>e side by J^e hede, and scocche ' him [in] J>e side in 
two or thre places, but not -thorgh, and setli him in water, ale, and salt, and 
serue him forth bote ; the sauce is vergyussauce or sauce ginger. 

Breme rost ensauce. ^ Take a breme, and scald him, (but no^t to moche,) 
and drawe him in ]>e bely, and pryk him j^orgB. J^e chyne b5n ij. or iij.^ with 
a knyfe, and roste him on a gredire. And take wyne, and boile hit, and cast 
there-to ponder ginger, Yergeoiis, and salt, and cast on ]>e breme in a dissh, and 
serue him forth bote. 

Plaise boiled. ^ Take a playse, and drawe him in the side by the hede ; And 
make sauce of water, parcelly, salt. And a litul ale; And whaii hit bigynnetSi 
to boyle, skeme hit clene, and caste hit there-to, and lete seth/ And sauce to 
him is mustard and ale and salt ; And serue it forthe bote/ or elles take a 
plays, and drawe him, pr/ke him with a knyfe for breking, as he frieth ; 
And fry him in bote oile, or elles in clarefied buttur. 

Ray boiled. ^ Take a Ray, and draw him in ]>e bely, and kutte him in 
peces, and seth him in water, and no salt, and serue him forth colde. And 
his sauce is vergeoHS, or lyuer with mustarde ; And boyle ]>e lyuer with him. 
And serue him forthe. 

Sole, boiled, rost, or fryed. ^ Take a sole, and do awey j^e hede, and 
drawe him as a phiis, and fie him ; And make sauce of water, parcelly and 
salt ; And whan hit bygynneth to boile, skeme it clene, and lete boyle ynogh. 
And if J70U wilt haue him in sauce, take him whan he is y-sodde ; or elles 
take him rawe and drawe him, and scale him with a knyfe. And ley him 
Tppon a gredryn, and broile him. And take wyne and ponder of CaneH, and 
lete boyle a while, And caste there-to pouder ginger, And vergeous ; and caste 
jje sauce oil ])e sole in }7e dissh. And serue him forthe bote. Or elles take a 
sole, and do a-wey ]>e hede ; drawe hi?n, and scalde him, and pryk him with 
a knyfe in diuerse places for ^ brekyng of Jie skyil ; And fry it in oyle, or 
elles in pured buttur. 

Gurnard rested or boyled. ^ Take a Gurnard, and drawe him in ])c bely 

and saue^ the powche w/t/«-yn hole ; and make sauce of water and salt ; And 

whan hit bigynnetfi to boile, skeme it clene. And cast the Gurnard thereto, 

' Harl. scorche; Douce MS. scocche. ^ fol. 25b. ^ twies or thries. 

* fol. 26. * Douce MS. : Harl. sauce. 



104 COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. MINNOWS, BARBEL, STURGEON. 

And setli him, and ' sauce/ to him is sauce of ginger, or vergyussauce, and 
seme him colde. 

Anojier. ^ Take a gurnard rawe, and slytte him endelonge the bak, J>orgB. 
J?e hede and tayle, and splatte him, and kepe the lyuer; And take ]>e rawe 
lyuer, and brede, and fissli broth, Wyne, and vinegre, And drawe hem thorgB. 
a streynoMr, and lete boyle ; and ]^en cast there-to poudcr ginger, saffron, and 
salt. And ]>qTi roste the gurnard, and splatte him ofa a gredire, and '^ley 
hym in a dissh.^ And j^en cast J^e sauce on hym in J»e dissh, and serue him 
forthe bote. 

Menese or loche boiled. ^ Take Menyse or loche, and pike hem f aire ; And 
make sauce of a gode quantite of ale and parcelly. And whan hit biginnetfi 
nye to boyle, skeme it clene, and cast ]>e fissB thereto ; and lete seth.. And 
if a mail wol, cast a litul saffron thereto: and sauce is vergesauce^; And 
then ye shaH serue him forth bote. 

Haddok or codlyng. ^ Take an haddok or codlyng, and di-awe him in ]>e 
bely. And make sauce of water and salt ; And whaii hit bigynneth to boyle, 
skeme hit clene, and caste the fissli thereto, And seth hit in his sauce. His 
sauce is garlek or verge-sauce ; and serxe him bote. 

BarbeH boyled. ^ Take a barbeH, and kutte him, and *draw him rounde ; 
And pike* in }»e nape of the hede and seth him in water and salt, Ale, and 
p«rcely. And whaii hit bygynneth to boile, skeme hit clene, and caste the 
barbel there-to. And setli him. And his sauce is garlek or vergesauce, *And 
]>en serue him forth. 

Millet boyled. ^ Take a MiUet, and scale him, and drawe him in J^e bely, 
and wassB him clene ; and jien take a pynte of wyne, and pouder caneH, And 
boile hem ouer the fire. And whaii hit is yboiled ynowe, caste ther^-to pouder 
ging<;r and a litel vergeous ; and caste the same lico?<r vppou hiwj in the dissh, 
and serue him forth bote; other elles scale him and drawe him, and fry him 
in good oyle. 

Sturgeon boiled. ^ Take a Sturgeofi, and kut of the vyn fro the tayle to ]>e 
hede, on ]>e bakke ; and chyne him and boyle him. And whaii hit boileth, 
skeme it, and caste p«rcelly thcre-to. And lete hem boyle ynowe, And then 
take him vppe, And serue him forth colde with leves of parcelly wet in 
vinegre, and caste there-on in j^e dissh ; And sauce ]>er-to is vinegre. 

Sturgeoii in broth. ^ Take fressh sturgeon, and chop it, and p«rboile it in 

' MS. in. 2.2 Douce MS.; Harl. resle him. 

^ Douce MS. vert sauce. *-* Douce MS. draw hym as a rounde pike. 

5 fol. 26i. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HARL, 4016. STURGEON, PORPOISE, TENCH. 105 

water ; and take hit fro the fire, and streyne it ^ jJorgB a streynowr into a 
potte ; and pike clene the fissh thereto ; and cast there-to ponder pep^-r, clowes, 
Maces, and caneH, and faire brede, and stepe hit with the same licowr, and 
streyne hit thorgh a streyno2<r, and caste there-to ; And lete boyle togidre ; 
And caste thereto Saffron, ponder ginger, salt, And vinegre ; And then ye 
shali serue it forth. 

Sturgeon po«r porpeys. ^ Take a Sturgeon, Turbut, or porpeys, and kut 
hit in faire peces to bake ; And then make faire kakes of faire paast, And 
take ponder of peper, ponder of Ginger, CaneH, and salt. And medio ]>ea 
poudres and salt togiders ; And take and ley a pece of the fissh on a kake/ 
and ley ]>e ponders vnderneth ]?e fissh, and abone ynowe ; And j^efi wete the 
sides of ]7e paast with faire colde water, and close the sides to-gidre, and 
sette hem in an oveil, and bake hem ynowe. 

- ffirmenty with porpeys. ^ Take faire almondes, and wassh hem clene, 
and bray hem in a morter, and drawe hem with water thorgh a streynowr 
into mylke, and caste hit ia. a vesseH. And then take wete, and bray it in a 
morter, that al jie hole hoH be awey, and boyle hit in faire water til hit be 
wel ybroke and boyled ynowe. And ]?en take hit fro the fire, and caste 
thereto j^e mylke and lete boyle. And whan hit is yboyled ynowe, and thik, 
caste there-to Sugur, Saffron, and salt ; and J^en take a porpeys, and chyne 
him as a Samon, And seth him in faire water. And whan hit is ynowe, baude 
hit, and leche hit in faire peces, and se^ue hit forth with firmanty, and cast 
there-on bote water ^ in ]>e dissh. 

Tenche in brase. ^ Take a tenche, and nape him, and slyt him in j^e bak 
thorgh the hede and taile. And drawe him ; and ]>en make sauce of water 
and salt. And whan hit bigynneth to boyle, skeme it clene, and cast J^e tenche 
therein, and seth him ; And take him vppe, and pul of the skyn, And ley him 
flatte, and j^e bely vpwardes in a dissh. And J^en take percelly and oynons 
And hewe hem small to-giders ; And cast ]7ere-to pouder of Ginger, and cast hit 
in vinegre ; And caste aU on ]>e tenche in j^e dissh, and serue him forthe colde. 

Another diting of a tenche. ^ Take a quarte of wyne and a litiil vinegre. 
And tendure brede. And stepe all togidre, and drawe hit thorgh a streynowr ; 
and lete hit boyle ; And caste there-to pouder peper ; And take a tenche, 
and splat him, and reste him oil a gredire, and cast his sauce vppou him in 
the dissh ; And j^en serue hit forthe bote. 

Turbut boyled. ^ Take a Turbut, and drawe him in the side as a plays by 
1 i.e. the broth, as Douce MS reads. * fol. 27. ^ Douce MS. broth. 



106 COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. TURBOT, WHELKS. 

the hede ; and J7eii chyne tim, and kut him in brode peces ; And ]>en make 
Sauce of the water and salt ; And when hit bigynneth to boyle, skeme hit 
clene and ^ wassh the peces clene, and caste hem thereto, and lete hem boyle 
ynowe. And ]>en take hem vppe, and let hem kele, And ley a pece or two in 
A dissh, and caste the levys of pffrcelly wette in vinegre there-oil, And serue 
forth ; And his sauce is verge-sauce. 

Turbut roste ensauce. ^ Take a Turbut, and kut of fe vynnes in maner 
of a hastelette, and broche him on a rounde broche, and roste him ; And whaii 
hit is half y-rosted, cast thereon smale salt as he rosteth. And take also as 
he rosteth, vergeoMS, or vinegre, wyne, pouder of Gynger, and a lituH caneH, 
and cast thereon as he rosteth. And holde a dissh vnderneth, fore spilling of 
the lico?<r ; And whaii hit is rosted ynowe, hete ]>e same sauce ouer the fire. 
And caste hit in a dissh to Jje fissh aH bote, And serue it forth. 

Tripe de Turbut. ^ Take the mawes of a Turbot, Haddok, or codlynge, 
and pike hem clene, and skrape hem, and wassh hem clene, and parboyle 
hem in good fressh broth of Turbot, haddok, Salmon, or pyk ; and take 
p«rcelly, and kut hit smale, and caste ]:ere-to ; and kut ]>e mawes in maner 
of Tripes of peny brede, and cast al togidre in a potte, And lete boyle. And 
whan hit is y-boyled ynowe, that J^ey be al tendre, caste J'ere-to saffron, Salt, 
And a litel yergeous, pouder of Gynger, And serue hit forth fore a good potage. 

Welkes boyled. ^ Take welkes, and caste hem in colde water, And lete hem 
boyle but a lituH ; And caste hem oute of the vessel!, And pike hem oute of 
the sheH, and pike awey the hom of hem, and wassh hem and rubbe hem weli 
in colde water and salt, in two or thre waters ; And serue hem colde, And caste 
vppoii hem leves of parcelly ywet in vinegre. And sauce to hem is vynegre. 

Milkemete. ^ ^ Take faire mylke and lloure, and draue hem J^orgh a 
streyno2<r, and sette hem ouer the fire, and lete hem boyle awhile ; And theii 
take hem vppe, and lete hem kele awhile/ And Jjen take rawe yolkes of eyren 
and drawe hem thorgh a streynoMr, and caste thereto a lituU salt. And set it 
ouer the fire til hit be som-what thik, And lete hit nojt fully boyle, and stere 
it right well euermore. And put it in a dissh al abrode, And seme it forth 
fore a gode potage in one maner ; And then take Sugur a good quantite, 
And caste there-to, and serue it forth. 

Chared coneys,^ or chardwardou. ^ Take a quarter of clarefied hony, iij. 
vnces of pouder peper, and putte bothe to-gidre ; then toke 30 coynes 
& X wardones, and pare hem, and drawe oute J^e corkes * at eyther ende, and 

> fol. 27b, * fol. 28. 2 Char de cojues, quince marmalade ? * ? cokes, or cores. 



COOKERY BOOK II. HARL. 4016. QUINCE MARMALADE. 107 

setB hem in goode wort til fej be soft, thcil bray hem in a morter ; if they 
ben thik, putte a lituH wyne to hem, and drawe hem thorgh a streyno?<r ; 
And ]>en put j>e hony and Jiat to-gidre, then sette al on the fire, and lete 
seth awhile til hit wax thikk<?, but stcrre it weH; with ij. sturrers for sitting 
to ; And \>en take it downe, and put J^ere-to a quarter of an vnce of pouder 
ging<?r, And so moche of galingale, And so moche of pouder CaneH, And lete 
it cole ; then put hit in a box, And strawe pouder ginger and caneli there-on : 
And hit is co»«fortable for a mannys body, And namely^ fore the Stomak. 
And if thou lust to make it white, leue the hony. And take so mocli sugur, 
or take part of j>e one and part of j>e ojier/ Also in this forme thou may make 
chard warden. 

1 specially. 



108 



ASHMOLE MS. 1439. SAUCES. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE PAGE 

Sauces piir diuerse viaundes : ChaudouH 108 Sauce for shulder of moton .... 110 

Sauce alepeuere 108 Sauce vert 110 

Sauce galentjaie 108 Surelle 110 

Sauce gingyutT 109 Sauce peccely 110 

Sauce for a gos 109 Sauce gauncile 110 

Sauce camelyne 109 Piper for feel and for venyso!<w ... 110 

" Sauce rous 109 White sauce for capons y-sode . . . 110 

Sauce for stokefysshe 109 Black sauce for capouws y-rostyde . . 110 

Sauce for stokfysshe in an-other maner . 109 Sauce newe for malardis 110 

Sauce for peiouws 109 

'Sauces pur diuerse viaundes. Chaudouw. — Take gysers, and lyuers, 
and hert* of Swanne ; and if ]>e guttys ben fat*, slyf them,^ and caste J^em 
]ier-to, and boile ]>em. in faire watre : and )?anne take J^em up, and hew jieva. 
smal, and thanne caste Jiem in-to j^e same broj^e, (but strayne hit ];urgh a 
straynour firste) ; and caste ]>er-to poudre peper, canel, and vynegre, and 
salt*, and lete boile. And Jeanne take the blode of the Swanne, and freysshe 
bro]?, and brede, and draw j^em j^urwe a straynour, and cast* ]>er-to ; and lete 
boile to-gedre. And J^enne take poudre of* gyngere, whanne hit* is al-moste 
y-now, & put* ])er-to, and serue forth. ^ 

Sauce alepeuere. — Take fayre broun brede, teste hit, and stepe it* in 
vinegre, and drawe it* jjurwe a str«ynour ; and put* j>er-to garleke smal 
y-stampyd, poudre piper, salt, & serue iorth. 

Sauce galentyne. — Take faire crustej of* broun brede, stepe \em in 
vinegre, and put* \er-io poudre canel, and lete it* stepe j^er-wy]' til it be 
brouu; and ]7anne drawe it J^urwe a straynowr .ij. tymes or .iij., and Jeanne 

^ If. 36. ^ clence thaym^ added after them in different ink. 

3 wiih the swan, added in different ink. 



COOKERY BOOK III. ASHMOLE 1439. SAUCES FOR STOKFISH, ETC. 109 

put )'er[to] poudre piper and salte : & lete it* be sumwhaf stondynge, and 
not to Ijynne, & serue forth. 

Sauce gingyner. — Take white brede, stepe if •wi]> vynegre, and draw it 
.ij. or .iij. tymes Jiurj a straynour; and thanne put ]>er-to^ poudre gingere, 
and scrue forj^e. 

Sauce for a gos. — Take percelye, grapis, clowes of garleke, and salte, 
and put* it in ]>e goos, and lete roste. And whanne J^e goos is y-now, schake 
out* Jiat* is wij'-in, and put al in a mortre, and do ])er-to .iij. harde jolkes of" 
egges ; and grynd al to-gedre, and tempre if \"p wi]? various, and caste it* 
upon the goos in a faire chargeour, & so seme if iorth. 

Sauce camelyne. — ^Take faire brede, and cut^ if, and toste it; and take 
vynegre and wyne, and stepe hit* J^^^r-in, and draw it Jjurwe a straynour wij? 
poudre canel, and draw it .ij. or .iij. tymes, til it be smothe. And Jeanne 
take poudre ginger, sugre, and poudre of clowes, and cast ]>er-to. And loke 
fiaf if stonde wil by clowes, & by sugre ; and Jeanne puf ]7er-to a litil 
safroune, and salt, and serue bit for]? Jiicke y-nowe. 

Sauce rous. — Take brede, and broyl it vpon J^e colons, and make it 
broune, and ley hif in vynegre, and lete if stepe ; and Jeanne take piper, 
canel and notemyggej, and a fewe of clowes, and casf if to-gedre in-to a 
mortre ; and take J^e brede ouf of J^e vynegre, and bray Jjer-wy}". And 
whanne if is y-brayd y-now, tempre if wytli wyne and vinegre, and draw 
if JiurgB a straynour as ]70u woldiste galyntyne. 

Sauce for stokefysshe. — Take faire broj^e of elys, o]>er of pyke, or els of" 
freysshe Samon, and strayne it Jiurwe a straynour : and take faire percely, 
and hewe if smal, and put }7e brojie and J'C -percele in-to a faire erj^yn vessel ; 
and put l^er-to poudre gingere, and a litil verious, & lete boile to-gedre. 
And ]>anne take faire sode stockefysehe, and ley it in faire bote watre : and 
whanne Jjou wilt serue it for];e, take j^e fysshe fro j^e watre, and ley it in a 
clene disshe ; & cast ])e sauce al bote fer-on, and serue it forth. 

Sauce for stokfysshe in an-other maner. — Take curnylles of walnotys, 
and clouys of garleke, and piper, brede, and salf ,■ and caste al in a morter ; 
and grynde it smal, & tempre if up vfi]) ]>e same brojie j^af ]7e fysshe was 
sode in, and serue if forjie. 

^ Sauce for peiouws. — Take percely, oynouws, garleke, and salf, and 
mynce smal the percely and J^e oynou?is, and grynde ]>e garleke, and temper it 
wi]7 vynegre y-now : and mynce ]>e rostid peiouHS and cast the sauce ]>er-on 
a-boute, and serue if {orth. 

1 salt, added in different ink. ' If. 36 bk, ^ If. 37. Heading in margin. 



110 COOKERY BOOK III. ASHMOLE 1439. SAUCES FOR VENISON, ETC. 

Sauce for shulder of moton. — Take p^rcely, and oynons, and mynce ]>em 
and ]>e rostyde shulder of Moton ; and take vynegre, and poudre gingere, 
salt, and cast^ a-pon fe mynced shulder, and ete hym so. 

Sauce vert. — Take percely, myntes, diteyne, peletre, a foil or .ij. of* cost^- 
marye, a clone of garleke. And take faire brede, and stepe it with vynegre 
and piper, and salt*; and grynde al this to-gedre, and tempre it vp -wi]) 
■wynegre, or wi)' eisel, and serue it* forj^e. 

Surelle. — Take Surel, wasche hit, grynde it*, put* a litil salt*, ]jer-to, and 
strayne hit*, and serue for^A. 

Sauce p^rcely. — Take percely, and grynde hit* wi]? vynegre & a litel 
brede and salt*, and strayne it* J'urgli a straynour, and serue if forj^e. 

Sauce gauncile. — Take floure and cowe mylke, safroune wel y-grounde, 
garleke,^ and put in-to a faire litel pot*; and sej^e it* ouer J7e fia-e, and serue 
it* forthe.2 

Piper for feel and for Yenysotm. — Take brede, and frye it* in grece, draw 
it vp wi]7 broj^e and vinegre : caste J^er-to poudre piper, and salt, sette on ]>e 
fire, boile it*, and melle it* forj^e. 

White sauce for capons y-sode. — Take almoundis y-blaunchid, and 
grynde J?em al to douste ; tempre it* up wi]? verious and poudre of gingere, 
and melle it* forjie. 

Black sauce for capouws y-rostyde. — Take fe Lyuer of* capouns, and 
roste hit wel ; take anyse, and grynde parysgingere, and canel, and a litil 
^cruste of* brede, and grynde hit* weH aH to-gedre ; tempre hit up wi]? 
verious, and ]>e grece of the capon, Jeanne boile it* and serue for]?e. 

Sauce newe for malardis. — Take brede, and blode y-boilid, and grynde it 
to-gedere, and draw Jjurw a clo]? withe vynegre ; do ]?er-to poudre gyngere, 
and piper, and ]?e grece of the malarde; salt* it* and boile, and melle it 
forthe. 

^ peper, salt, added in different ink. ^ with the goos, added. ^ If. 37 bk. 



Ill 



LAUD MS. 553 (BODLEIAN LIBRARY). 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

Pejureguson 112 

Amendment of salt mete 112 

For to make amydon 112 

Teste de cure 112 

Sweteblanche 112 

[Rischewys close ?] 112 

Bukenade 113 

Cyuele 113 

Caiidele 113 

Saug sarastT 113 

Pape 113 

Egredoucetcs 113 

Figee 113 

Pomesmoille 113 

Rys moilles 113 

Apple moys 113 

Soupes dorrees 114 

Peys de almayne 114 

Tauorsay 114 

Haddoke in Cyuee 114 

Chauudon of fissh 114 

Mortrowes of fissh 114 

BlaumangCT- of fissh 114 

Potage of ris . . .• 114 

Numbles 114 



112 



LAUD MS. 553 (BODLEIAIsr LIBRARY). 



^Peynregusofi. — 'Nym resons & do out ye stones, and bray it in a morter 
■with pepir & gingiuer, & salt and wastel bred ; tempre hit with wyn, boille 
hit, dresse hit forth. 

Amendement of salt mete. — Tuk a fare lynne clout / & do therynne 
a disshful of ote-mele, byne hit, & hange it in thy pot dou?i to ye boteme. 
Set it from ye fuyr & let hit kele / suththe set hit ajen to ye inyr / & 
drflwe out thy clout & that is goude. 

For to make amydon). — JN'ym whete at midsomer / & salt, & do it in 
a faire vessel / do water therto, that thy whete be yheled / let it stonde 
ix days & ix ny^t, & eueryeday whess wel thy "svhete / & at ye ix days 
ende bray hit wel in a mort<?r / & drie hit tojenst ye sonne / do it in a faii'e 
vessel / & kouere hit fort, thou wil it note. 

Teste de cure. — ^J^ rys, whas hem / drie hem / & bray hem al to doust 
in a mortd?r, & amydon thi?rwith : tempre it vp with almand mylk / cast 
therto poudur and safrofi / & sugur / nym luys, turbot. and elys / & gobete 
hem in mosselys, & sauge & perceli / mak coffyns of thi past / do thy fissh 
therynne ; cast aboue goud -poudur & sugur ; kerue it, bake it, and jif 
hit forth. 

Sweteblanche. — Nym chikons or hennes, skald hem, drawe hem in 
morselys, & seth hem with good beofe. njm yolkes of eyren ysoden hard / 
&'almawde mylk, and grind to-gedere / nym ye floures of ye rede vyne, & 
salt, & bray al in a morter : boille hit / nym thy chikons or thy hen, ondo 
hem in disshes, do thy sewe aboue / & also myjt thou do fissh days with 
lyuere of turbut or of other manere fissh with almand mylke. 

^ [Ryschewys close?]. — Nym fiour and eyren, & kned to-gedere /nym figus, 
resons, & dates, & do out ye stonys, & blanchid almandis, & goud poudwr, 
1 If . 5. * If. 5b. : see p. 55, 



COOKERY BOOK IV. LAUD 553. (bOULEIAN). CAUDLE, APPLES. 113 

& hraj to-gedere / make cofiyns of ye lengthe of a spanne / do thy farsour 
therynne, in eu^rych cake his porcioii) / plie hem & boille hem in water / 
& suththe roste hem on a gridel & jif forth. 

Bukenade.' — Nym fressh flessh, what it eu^^re be. Seth hit w/t/i goud 
beof, cast therto mynsed oynons & good spicerie, & lie hit with eyren, 
& jif hit forth. 

Cyuele. — Nym almandes, Sug?<r & salt, & payn de mayn, & bmy he??? in 
a mortar / do th(?/"to ejreii, frie hit in oylle or in grese, cast theron sngiir, 
& jif hit forth. 

Caudele. — Xym eyren, & swcng wel to-gedere / chauf ale & do therto / lie 
it with araydon), do th<?rto a porcioii) of sug?<r, or a perty of hony, & a perti 
of safroiD ; boille hit, & jif hit forth. 

Saug ssira,ser.- — Tak Almandes, frye he??? in oille, & br«y he?/?, tempre hem 
w?t/? almand mylke & red wy«, & ye thrudde perty shal be sugur / & if hit 
be nojt thikke ynow, lie it with amydoii) or wt'th &our de rys ; colo?<r hit 
with alkinet, boille hit, dresse it, florissh hit aboue with pomme-gamet, 
and jif forth. 

Rape. — jS'ym luyss or tenge, or other mane?'e fissh / frye h?t in oille de 
olyue ; ny??i crostes of whyt bred, resons, & canele, brrty hit, te???pre it 
vp with good wyn, drawe it thorw a colon?<r / let hit be al ycoloured 
with canele, boille hit, cast th£'?'to clous, maces, and quibibes, do thi fissh in 
thi disshfs, & thi rape aboue, messe h/t, & jif forth. 

^Egredoucetes. — Tak luyjs or tenges, kerf he??? in mosselis, fri he??? in 
oille : ny??? vynegre / & ye thrudde p«?'ty sugwr, mynce oynons, & boille 
smal, & clous, maces, & qibibus, & dresse hit forth. 

Figee. — Xym figes, «S: boille he??? in wyn, & hmj hem in a morter with 
lied bred ; tempre hit vp w?t7? goud wyn / boille it / do therto good spicere, 
& hole resons / dresse hit / florisshe it a-boue with pomme-garnetes. 

PomesmoiUe. — Nym rys & br«y he??? in a morti?r, tempre he?w vp w/th 
alma??de milke, boille he??? : nym appelis & kerue hem as small as douste, 
cast he??? yn after ye boilly??g, & sug??r : colo?<r hit with safron, cast therto 
goud poudre, & jif hit forth. 

Rys mollies. — Nym rys, bray he???, tempre vp with ' almand mylke : 
boiH hem, cast therto sug«r / & salt hit, & dresse hit forth. 

Apple moys. — Nym appeles, seth he???, let he??? kele, frete he??? thorvre an 
her syue : cast it on a pot / & on a fless day cast therto goud fat broth of bef, 
^ JIS. Dukenade. ^ i.e. Sauce Sarrasine. ^ If. 6. 



114 COOKERY BOOK IV. LAUD 553. (BODLEIAn). PEASE, FISH. 

& white grese, sug?<r & safron), & on fissh days almand mylke, & oille de 
oliue, & sugMr, & safron) : boille hit, messe hit, cast aboue good poudre, & 
jif forth. 

Soupes dorrees. — Nym oynons, mynce hem, frie hetn in oille de olyue : 
nym oyno«s, boille he»» with wyn, tost whit bred, & do it in dishes / and 
cast almand mylke theron), & ye wyn & ye oynons aboue, & gif hit forth. 

'Peys de almayne. — Nym white peson & boille hem / & thanne tak hem 
vp, & wash hem clene in cold water, fort that ye holys go of : do hem in a 
clene pot / do water therto thfft hit be a-wese / let hem sethe vppon) colys / 
th«t ther be no lye / couere thi pot / that ther go no breth out / whenne 
hit beth ysode, do hem in a morter & br«y hem smal, tempre hem vp with 
almawde milke, & with flowr de rys, do therto safron & salt, & boille hit 
& dresse hit forth. 

Tauorsay. — IS'ym ye bed of ye codlyng & ye liuere, & pike out ye bones / 
cast therto gond poudre of piper & gyngiuer, and gif forth. 

Haddoke in Cyuee. — Shal be yopened & ywasshe clene / & ysode & 
yrosted on a gi'idel ; grind peper & saffron), bred & ale / mynce oynons, fri 
hem in ale, & do therto, and salt : boille hit, do thyn haddok in plateres, & 
thi ciuey aboue, & jif forth. 

Chauudon) of fissh. — Nym ye liuere & ye poke. Seth hit, hakke hit smal/ 
gri?id paper & safron, bred & ale, tempre hit with ye broth / boille hit, do 
salt therto, & messe hit forth. 

Mortrowes of fissh. — Tak ye rowys of fissh / & ye liuere, seth hit, hakke 
hit, gri?Kl paper, bred & ale, tempre hit -with ye broth : do salt therto, boille 
hit, & messe hit forth. 

Blaumanger of fissh. — Nym a pond of ris, seth hern fort hit berste, let 
hem kale : cast therto mylk of two pond of almandes / nym ye perch other 
ye loppestere or drie haddok, tese therto, and boille hit / cast therto sug«<r, 
& ^if forth. 

Potage of ris. — Nym ye ris, whess hem clene, seth hawi fort hit breke : 
let hem kele, do therto almand mylke, other of kyn,^ colo?<r it wetA safron), 
salt hit, & jif forth. 

Numbles. — Shall be ywhess clene in water & salt, & ysode in water / nym 
[^Cetera desunt']. 

J If. &b. * i.e. kine: cow milk. 



115 



RECIPES FROM DOUCE MS. 55, 

Ab. 1450 AD. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE PAGE 

Oyle Soppes Ixiij. 115 Bitore roste Cxj. 116 

Capon en Counfyt .... Cij. 115 Egrett rost Cxij. 116 

Cokentrice Ciij. 115 Plouer rost Cxix. 117 

Crane roste Cvij. 116 Snyte rost Cxx. 117 

Fesaunt rost Cviij. 116 Sturgeon buille ou turbiitt . . Cxlvj. 117 

Heron rost Cx. 116 Charlette Clxxviij. 117 

^ Oyle Soppes. CsLpifuIum Ixiiij. — Take and buille mylke, and take 
yolk as of eyren) tryed fro the white, and draw hem ; then cast to the milke 
and hete it, butt lete it nat buille, & ' styrre it well tiH it be summe-whate 
thikke : then cast ther-to sugre and salte, and cutt feyre paynemayne in 
soppes, & cast the soppes there-on, & seme it forth in maner of potage. 

^ Capon) en Couwfyt. ^ Ca,2^itulum cij. — Take fressh broth, and wyn), 
& persely, & saverey, and a liteH sauge, and lete buille to-gedrys : and 
crome ther-to herde ^yolkes of eyreu) tyH it be well thykke, and kest 
ther-to pouudre of gyngeuere y-nogh, & vertious, and salt, and saffron) ; and 
take a good rosted capon), & ley hym in a chargeur, & ryse the legges and 
the wynges, butt [set] ham nott fro the body ; and kest on the capoii) the 
licoMr aH hotte, & seme it forth. 

^ Cokentrice. ^ Csipttulum. ciij. — Scalde a capon) clen), & smyte hem 
in-to the wast oueretwarde, and scaude a pygge, and draw hym, & smyte 
hym in the same maner ; and then sewe the f orthyr parte of the capon) and 
the hyndyr parte of the pygge to-gedrys, and the forther parte of the pygge 
^and the hynder parte of the capon) to-gedyr: then draw the whyte & the 
yolkes of eyren), and cast ther-to, and svette of a schepe, and saffron), & salt, 
and pouudre of gyngeuere, and grated brede ; and medle aH to-gedre with thyii 
1 If. 34J. 2 If. 475. 3 If. 48. 



116 COOKERY BOOK V. DOUCE 55. ROAST CRANE AND HERON, ETC. 

honde, and putt it in the cokentrice, and putt it on a spite, and roste hem •, 
and endore hem with yolkes of eyren), and pouudre of gyngeuere, and saffron), 
& ioissB of pe?-sely or malves, & draw hem, and endore hem aH abowte in 
euery perty of hym). 

^ Crane roste. Ca,pituh(m C.vij. — Take a crane, and cutt hym in the rofe 
of the mouth, and lete him blede to deth : and cast a-wey the blode, and 
schalde hym, & draw hym vndyrthe wynge or att the vent, & folde vpp hys 
legges att the kneys vndir the thye ; & cutt of the wyngys next iunte the 
body,^ and lete hym haue hys heuede & hys necke on ; saue take awey the 
wesyng, ^and wynde the necke a-boute the spyte, and bynde hit, & putt 
the bille in the body and the golett ; and reyse the wynges and the legges as 
of a gose ; and yiff ]>ou. schalt sauce hym, mynce hym fyrst, and sauce hym 
withe pouudre of pepyr, and gyngeucre & mustarde, vynegre & salt, and 
serue hym forth. 

^ Fesaunt rost. CsipUuhm cviij. — Lete a fesaunt blode in the mouth, 
and lete hym blede to deth ; & pulle hym, and draw hym, & kutt a-wey the 
necke by the body, & the legges by the kne, & perbuille hym, & larde hym, 
and putt the knese in the vent : and rost hym, & reise hjm vpp, hys legges 
& hys wynges, ^as off an henne; & no sauce butt salt. 

Heron) rost. % Ca/;«Y2</«in ex. — Take an heron), & lete hym blode in the 
moutli as an crane, & scalde hym & draw hym att the vent as a crane ; 
and cutt awey the booii) of the necke, & folde the necke a-boute the * spite, 
and putt the hede ynne att the golet as a crane ; & brcke awey the boon) 
fro the kne to the fote, and lete the skyn be stille, and cutt the wyng att the 
Joj'ute next the body, and putt hem on a spite : and bynde hys legges to 
the spyte with the skynne of the legges, & lete rost, & reyse the legges and 
the wynges as of a crane, and sauce hym w?t/i vynegre, and mustard, 
and pouudre of gyngeuere, & sett hym forth. 

^ Bitore roste. Cajntuhim. cxj. — Slee a bytowr in the moutfi as an 
heron), & draw hym as an henne, and fold vppe hys legges as a crane ; & 
lete the wynges be on, & take the booii) of the * necke aH awey as of an 
heron) : & putt the hedde in the golet or in the shuldre, and rost hjm ; and 
ryse the legges & the wynges as )70u dost of an heron, & no sauce butt salt : 
& sett hym forth. 

Egrett rost. Cdipituhivi cxij. — Breke an egrettes nekke, or cut the rofe 

^ i.e. cut off the wings at the joint next to the body. 

2 If. 50. 3 If, 50J. 4 If. 51. 5 If. 51J. 



COOKERY BOOK V. DOUCE 55. SNIPE, STURGEON, CHARLETE. 117 

of hys moutli, as of a crane, & scalde h.jm, and draw hym as an henne ; & 
cutt of hys wynges by the body, and the heued & the necke by the body, 
& folde hys legges as a bitore, & rest hym : & no sauce butt salt. 

^ Plouer rost. ^ Capitulum Cxix. — Breke the skulle of a plouere, & 
pull hy/;j drye, and draw hywj as a chike, and cutte the legges and the 
wynges by the body, and the heued and necke ali-so, & roste hym, and vejae 
the legges and wynges as an henne : and no sauce butt salt. 

^ Snyte rost. ^ Csipttulum Cxx. — Slee a snyte as a ^Aonere, & lete hys 
necke be hole saue the ^wesyng; and lete hys heuede be on, and putt it in 
the schuldre, and folde vppe his legges as a crane, & cutt his wynges and 
roste hym, & reyse hys legges and wynges as an henne ; & no sauce butt salt. 

^^ Sturgeon) buille ou turbutt. ^ C&pifuhim Cxlvj. Draw a t«rbutt 
or a sturgeon), and chyn) hym, & cutt them) in brode pecis ; and buille 
hem in water and salt y-nogh, and seme hym forth colde, a pece or too in 
a dissli w«'t/i vert sauce : and cast persely leves wette in vynegre on hym. 

^ Charlete. ^ CsLvitulum Clxxviij. — Setli melke yn a pott and cast 
ther-to salt and saffron) ; & hew feyre buttes of calues or of porke small, and 
cast ther-to : and draw the white & yolkes of eyren), and cast to the licour 
when it builleth, and a litcH ale, and stirre it tiH it crudde. and yiffe j>oii 
wilt haue it forced, hete milke scaldyng hoote, and cast ther-to rawe yolkes 
of eyren) and poudj'e of gyngeuere, and sugre & clowcs & maces, & lete natt 
fully buille ; and press the cruddes in feyre ^ lenyn) cloth, & lessli it, & ley 
too or thre lesshes in a dissli : & cast the farsyng ther-on, & serue it 
forth bote. 

1 If 53J. 2 if_ 605. 3 If, 76. 



119 



GLOSSARY AND MDEX. 



[The following works are referred to : — Forme of Cury ; Liler Cure Cocorum ; 
Ancient Cookeries in Waenee, Antiquitates Culinarice (1791); Napier, 
Nvhle Bake of Cookry (1882) ; E. Holme, Academy of Armory (1678); 
CoTGKATE, French Diet. (1611); Godefeoy, Bid. de I'Anc. Lanyue 
Franc; Murray, Fny. Bid. (1885, etc.). The thick type shews 
Eecipes that are in this volume ; italics shew recipes in the Banquets, 
but if in inverted commas, the recipe is quoted from another Cookery. 
The spelling of the other Cookeries has been corrected, where needful.] 



A-boue, adv.^ 14, 17 ; A-bouen, 29 ; 
A-bouyn, 14, 21, 35, 54 ; A-boue, 
prep., 54 ; A-bouyn, 54. Above. 

Aboujte, adv., 73 ; A-bowte. 21, 29, 
31 ; Abought, prep., 78 ; A-bowte, 
31, 54. About ; round. 

Abowe, vh.t., 79. Bow; bend. 

A-brode, adv.. Caste al a-brode, 
holdyu a-brode, 7, 92. Abroad ; about; 
stretched out. 

Abyndou??, sh., 20. See Amidoim. 

A-chatry, 67. Acatery ; provisions 
bought. 

Acord, sb., Be hys owne acord, of 
itself, 17. 

A-cordant, adj., 60. Accordant ; in 
accordance. 

A-doun, adv., 17, 54 ; Adown, 7. 
Down, 

A-force, vh.t., \fith Sugre or hony, 
55, with spices, 29 ; A-force, pp., 3 ; 
A-forse, 17. Afforce ; season, make 
substantial. This is the Fr. enforcer, 
see Porcelle farce enforce, on page 
58. The word enforcer is still used 
of a person growing fat : and force 
is applied in England for fattening 
animals ; see Halliwell. Compare 
next word ; pork and oatmeal being 
used to the Gruel. 



A-forcyd, pp. 1, Charlet a. ryally, 
17 ; Doucettes a., 55 ; Chawettys 
a-forsed, 46 ; Kyde a-Forsyde, 41 ; 
Gruelle a-forsydde, 6. 

Aftyrward, 21, Afterward. 

Ale, sb., 11, 13, 16, 86, Stale Ale, 
12, 96, New ale, 10 ; Sethe Fygys in 
Ale, 43 ; Ale draft, 19, Ale dregs, or 
bottoms ; Ale yeest, 96, Ale jest, 44, 
Ale yeast. 

Alegere, sb., 28. Alegar; ale vinegar. 

Alkenade, sb., 29, 30, 31, 48 ; Alki- 
net, 113. Alkanet. 

Al to-broke, 85, Alle to-broke, 44 ; 
Al to-choppe, 41 , Alle to-choppe, 20, 
34, Alle to-choppyd, 41 ; Alle to-falle, 
32. Quite broken, chopped, etc. 

Allemaundys, sb., 10 ; Alman), 18 ; 
AlmaHde mylke, 30, 112 ; Almandys, 
1 ; Caudell de Almondes, 96, Caw- 
deUe de Almaunde, 16, see F. of C. 
87, '"'' Cawdel of xilmaund inylk" ; 
Almaunde mylke, 11, 14, 21, 26 ; 
Almaundis, 56 ; Almaundys, 9, 13, 
15, 16, Fride Creme of A., 7, 91, 
see F. of C, No. 85, '■'Creme of 
Ahnaundes," Warner, p. 69, '■' Crem 
of almonde mylk " ; Almondes, 88, 
90, 91, Froyte de almondes, 91, 
Froyde almoundys, 7, Cheaut de 



120 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOKS. 



Almondes, 96, see Napier, p. 76, 
'■'■ Hoot milk of a.," and ^^ Cold mylk 
of a." also "Douce MS. No. 160. 
" Chaud let dalmandes." Almonds. 
Almaunden, adj., 17. Almond; of 
almonds : there should be no comma 
after it. 
Almaynne, Hagas de, 44, Hagas de 
almondes 84 ; Bruet of Almaynne, 
19, Bruet of A. in lente, 19 ; 
Peys de Almayne, 114. These are 
possibly all German dishes, but 
Allemagne and Almonds got con- 
founded, as in the first two recipes, 
which are the same dish, and have 
almonds in them. 

Almonds, see Allemaundys. 

Along, adv., Datys y-taylid a-loug, 
lengthwise, 27. 

Aloes de Roo, 61 ; Allowes de Mutton, 
83 ; Alows de Beef or de Motown, 
40 ; Alowys, 3. See Warner, p. 
74, " Alau7ide7- of moton" and " o/ 
beef"; Napier, p. 29, '■'■ Alander de 
moton" p. 30, '■'■Alander de beef." 
CoTGR., " Jfo^^aw de bceuf. A short 
rib of beefe, or the fleshie end of 
the rib, diuided from the rest, and 
rosted." Compare a mutton-chop. 

A-lye, vb.t., 13, 17, 19. Allay; 
mix : Fr. Allat/er, Cotgr. See £>/. 

Amendement of salt mete, 112. 

Amidons, sb., 16; For to make 
Amydon, 112 ; Amyndons, 22 ; 
Amyndouw, 28. Fr. Amidoii, Wheat 
flour, steeped, strained, and dried in 
the sun : see L.C.C., -p. 7, Napier, 
p. 101. 

A-morwe, 33, 37. Amorrow; next 
morning. 

An, cotij., passim. And. 

Aneward, adv., 34. Onward ; on it. 

Aneys, sb., 53 ; in comfyte, 32 ; Anys 
in comfyte, 8, 10, 28. Anise. 

Apofi, prep., 92. Upon. 

Appeles, sb., 113; Appelis, 113; 
Appelys, 16, 20 ; Appil, 38 ; Apple 
mose, 2, or Apple muse, 20 ; Apple 
moys, 113 ; see Warner, II. 17, 35, 
Prompt. Parv., p. 13, '■'■ Apidmos," 
" Appidmos," Napier, p. 121, " Ap- 
pillmose " ; compare " Mush, Any- 
thing mashed," Halliwell. Apple 



moyle, 30, Pomesmoille, 113, called 
"Appidmoi/" in F. of C, No. 19, 
" Pommes moiled," or " molid " in 
Napier, p. 119, and ^^ Pommys mor- 
les," in Warner, p. 46, on which 
page there is also "%s (Rice) moyle," 
(called ''Eesmolle" in F. of C, 96). 
The moyle, or morles, is the French 
Mul, Molle, soft. Applys, 29, 30, 39. 

Applade Ryalle, 30. So called from 
the apples in it : compare Quynade. 

Appraylere, 39. See Cotge., " Ap- 
pareille; dressed, cooked, or seasoned, 
(as meat)." This dish is well spiced. 

Arbolettys, 20, Fr. Eerbelettes, Small 
herbs ; see F. of C, No. 172, '' Erho- 
lates." The dish is spelt Arbelettys 
in A. See Herbelade. 

AsmaH, 95. As small. 

A-to, 5, 22, 40. In two. 

Auence, sb., 5 ; Auens, 69. Avens ; 
Benuet. 

A-wese, 114, A-wash. See Over- 
wose, and note 4 on -p. 86. 

Ajen, adv., 53, Again : Ajenward, 
adv., 54. Once more. 

Bacon, see Bahon. 

Bake Mete, 54 ; Bake Mete Ryalle, 

55 ; Bake Metis, 47. Baked Meat. 
Baken, vb., 54. Bake. 
Bakke, sb., Al. Back. 
Bakon, sb., 6; Bakoun, 32. Bacon. 
Bakyn mete, 33. Baked meat. 
Balloke brothe, 10, 89. See F. of C, 

No. 109, Warner, p. 68, Napier, 

p. 86. This broth is called '•'■Baloiirgly 

broth " in Warner, p. 49. 
Banquets, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 

63, 67, 68. See Forewords. 
Barbel, 104; BarbeH boyled, 104. 
Barlyche, sb., 37. Barley. 
Bastard, sb., 37. A sweet Spanish 

Wine. See Ord. & Reg., p. 473. 
Bastard, adj., 13, 21, 22. 
Basyn, sb., 34. Basin. 
Bater, sb., 54, 73; Batur, 73; Bature, 

15, 38, 54 ; Baturys, 39. Batter. 
Baude, vb.t., 76, 105; Bawde, 18, 

70. Cut in thin slices ; Fr. barder. 
Be, prep., 18, 23, 26. By. 



GLOSSARY AND INDEX. 



121 



Beef y-Stywyd, 6, Stwed Beeflf, 72 ; 
Bef, 34, Stekys of venson or bef, 40; 
Beff, 1, 5 ; Beofe, 112. 

Be-helyd, pp., 37. Bebeled ; covered. 

Be-hynde, jyrf/?., 14. Behind. 

Ben, vl)., 19, 26, 27. Been; be. 

Benecodde, sh., 48 ; Bene koddys, 43. 
Bean-cod. 

Beof, sh., 113; Beofe, 112. Beef. 

Berde, sb., 39. Beard ; brim. 

Bere, sb., 49. Bear. 

Berme, sb., 44, 52, 73, 90. Barm; 
yeast. 

Betayn, sb., 69. Betoiiy. 

Bete, &b., 5 ; Betus, 69. Beet : Beets. 

Bete, vb.,t. b. to-gedere (in cooking), 
39. Beat. 

Beterre, adj., 33. Better. 

Be-twene, prep., 39 ; Be-twyn, 39, 54. 
Between. 

Bey, vb., 21. Be. 

Birdys, Smal, 1, 55; Bryddys, 9; 
Smal Byrdys, 52, Smale Byrdys 
y-stwyde, 9. 

Bitore roste, 116; Bytor rosted, 79. 
Bittern : Fr. Butor. See Bytor. 

Bittern, see Bitore. 

Bladys, sh., of Percely, 35 ; Barlyche 
& Percely, 37. Blades. 

Blake, adj., with Blode, 38; Blak 
sugar, 91, Blake sugre, 7, 28, 51. 
Black. 

Blamang, 21, (Flesh), Blamanger, 85, 
(Flesh), see Douce MB., No. 26. 
Warner, II. No. 14 and No. 33, and 
p. 75, L.C.C. p. 9, F. of C, No. 36 
and No. 192, Napier, p. 102, '' B. of 
fiesche " ; Blamanger of Fysshe, 23, 
114, see L.C.C., p. 19, Napier, p. 
Ill, Warner, p. 46 ; see also p. 55 
" Blaumanger to potage;" Blaman- 
gere, 2. Blancmange ; Blancmanger, 

Blanche, adj., B. almondes, 90 
Blanched. 

Blanche, vb.t., 20; Blaunche. 19 
Blawnche, 7, 9. Blanch : whiten. 

Blanche Porrey, 90 ; made of the 
white of leeks : see Ducange, 
" Porrecta, Jusculum ex poris con- 
fectum," (also Porrata.) See Pereye. 
Blandemre, 68 ; Blandissorye, 9 ; 
Blaunde Sorre, 84 ; Blaundysorye, 



21 ; Blaundyssorye, 2. See Warner, 
IX 55, '■'■ Blaundesore to potage," Na- 
pier, p. 35, " Bland sorre," p. 105, 
" Blank de Sirre " ; F. of C, No. 37, 
" Blank Dessorre," 193, " Blank De- 
sire " ; Warner, II. 29, " Blank 
sum/," p. 47, Blank de Sure, and 
p. 49, ''Blank de Spy"; L.C.C., p. 12, 
" Blonk desore." With regard to 
Blaundesorre, see Warner, p. 75. 
It is made with Blaunche Mortreives, 
by setting leches of that dish in syrup 
made of wine and spices. The latter 
]Dart of the word seems to indicate 
the saffron or sorrel colour. Fr. 
"■Sore', Reeked, made red," Cotgr. 
Bhmk powder, 15; Blanke pouder, 
15, 19 ; Blaunche powder, 27, 37 ; 
Blawnche powder, 1 1, 24. See Cotgr., 
"■ Poiddre blanclie, a powder com- 
pounded of Ginger, Cinnamon, and 
Nutmegs ; in use among Cookes." 
Blaunche perry, 33, Blaunche Per- 
reye, 32, Blawnche Perrye, 14 ; 
Blaunche de ferry, 27 ; Blaunche 
brawen, 34, Blaunche brawne, 71, 
See Douce MS., No. 49. 
Blaunchid, adj., 10,38; Blawnchyd, 

21. Blanched. 
Blaunde rellys, 59. 
Blode, sh., 8 ; late blode, let blood, 

52 ; lete blode, 78. 
Bokenade, Vele, kede, or henne in, 
13 ; Autre, Vele in b., 13 ; see F. of 
C, N. 118, Warner, No. 52, Napier, 
p. 25, (Veal) ; Bukenade, 113, and 
Buknade, 85, (two recipes,) see F. 
of C, No. 17, ''Bukkenade,"V^A-RNEB., 
II. No. 45, Douce MS., No. 76 and 
No. 77, (Various meats) ; L.C.C., 
p. 12, and Napier, p. 105, (Fat 
Pork) ; see also Warner, p. 54, 
" Bukenade to potage." 
Bolas, 24; Lorey de Boolas, 25; 

Bolasse, 24. Bullace. 
BoH, sb., 74 ; Bolle of tre, 7, BoH of 
tre, 92, Bowl of wood ; Treeu bolle, 
16, 95 ; Bolle, 20. 
Bonte, sb., Crees bonte or bunte, 38, 
Linen sieve : compare Crescloth, in 
Halliwell. 
Bonys, sb., 6, 55. Bones. 
Borage, 5, 8; Burage, 92. 



122 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOKS. 



Bord, sh., 7. Board. 

Bore, sb., 49, Boar. The here in line 3 
of No. xij, p. 49, should be bore. 

Boteme, 112. Bottom. 

Boter, sb., 8, 20, 42 ; Botere, 42, 53 ; 
Botter, 51. Butter. 

Botmon, sb., 55 ; Botmond, 38. 
Bottom. 

Bottes of motoun, 40. See Buttes. 

Bourreys, 70, Bowres, 8; see L.C.C., 
p. 37, " Bours," Napier, p. 120. This 
dish is similar to " Burseu," F. of C, 
No. 11, and to '' Bursews," No. 179, 
and is spelt " Boxisoun " in Douce 
MS., No. 42 (Bosoun in the Text). 
This seems to be the Fr. Bourse, and 
(in two cases) the Italian diminutive 
Bor sella, or the French Bourseau, see 
CoTGR. : GoDEFROY has the diminu- 
tive Boursault. The dish consists of 
small purse-like rissoles or pommes, 
in the last recipe in F. of C. : in the 
others there are gobbets. Compare 
Potews, F. of C, No. 177, made in 
Pots, and Suchus, No. 178, made in 
Bags. 

Box laves, 35. 

Boyle, pp., 7 ; Boylede, 8. Boylid, 
9. Boiled. 

Boyling, sb., 17. 

Brasele, 20. See Cotgr., " Brasille: 
Eosted, broyled, or boyled with a 
quicke fire." 

Braunchys, 23. Branches. 

Brawn en Peuerade, 11, 12, Brawne 
in peuard, 71, see Douce MS., No. 
47, Warner, p. 79 ; Brawn in com- 
fyte, 34, 71, see Douce MS., No. 
48; Blaunche Brawen, 34, 71, see 
Napier, p. 99, Douce ]\IS., No. 49; 
B. of Capoun, 10, 19 ; Brawune 
fryej, 43, see Douce MS., No. 6 ; 
Browne in egurdouce, 71, see 
Warner, jj. 79, '■'■Boor in cgredouce," 
called Braun en peueruade, in Douce 
MS., No. 56. It is, however, to be 
noticed that the Recipe gives, Brovme 
here, as below, and changes the and, 
in first line in Douce MS., to or. 
Broke braune, 68 ; Braune with 
Mustard, 68. 

Bray, vb.t., (iu mortar), 16, 109. 

Bread, see Bred. 



Bred, sb., 19; Brede, 8, 14, 18, 80, 
84, Brown brede, 108, white brede, 
109. Bread. 

Brede, sb., they peny brede, the 
penny^s breadth, 7. The Recipe on 
p. 82, and Douce MS., No. 4, read 
two {ij, and too), not the : A. reads the. 

Breke, vb. tr. & intr., let sethe tyl it 
breke, 7 ; breke brede, 8. Break. 

Brekyn, vb. intr., 23. Break. 

Brekyng, sb., 52. Breaking. 

Breme or Roche boiled, 103, see 
Douce MS., No. 138 ; Breme rost en 
sauce, 103, in Table of Douce MS., 
as No. 139, but omitted in the text : 
see Napier, p. 70, '■'■Breme in Sauce." 

Brenuyd brede, 18. Burnt bread. 

Brennyng hote, 53. Burning hot. 

Brerde, sb., 48. Rim. 

Brest de motton in sauce, 85, see 
Douce MS., No. 86, Napier, p. 68. 
Breast of Mutton. 

Breste, vb.int., 5. Burst. 

Brewe rested, 79, see Douce MS., 
No. 114, Napier, p. 63. Mr. Swain- 
sou kindly notes that he imagines 
this bird to be the Whimbrel, which 
was called the Brame or Brume in 
East Anglia. See Murray. 

Brewes, 11, 32; Brewes in Lentyn, 
29 ; Browes, 32, 90 ; Schyconys with 
be bruesse, 32, see F. of C, 33 ; 
Brwes, 30, Brwes in lentyn, 33. 
Brewis. 

Briukes, 75, 76, Kims. 

Brocche, «5., 82 ; Broche, 39 ; vb.t., 
39, 40, 106. Broach ; spit. 

Broth, Venyson in, 10, 70, see Douce 
MS., No. 38 ; Muscules in Broth, 
90, see Douce MS., No. 78 ; Balloke 
Brothe, 10, 89, Douce MS., No. 34 ; 
Storion in b., 13, Sturgeon in b., 
104, see Douce MS., No. 80 ; Mighty 
brothe of Beef or of Capoun, 12. 

Browne, vb.int., 38. Brown ; turn 
brown. 

Browne fryes, 83 : this receipe makes 
brown bread of the Dish : Harleian 
MS. 279, and Douce MS., 55, have 
Brawune frye) and Brauii Frye), 
respectively, and omit brede ; see 
above. 



GLOSSARY AND INDEX. 



123 



Bruet of Almaynne, 19. see Wabner 

II. 31, F. of C, 47, ''Brewet of 
Almony" Warner, p. 55, '■'■Blaunche 
hruet of Almayn" and pp. 55, 77, 
^^ Browet of Almayne" L.C.C., p. 11, 
"Breuet de almonde," Napier, p. 105, 
" Bnoet de almonds " ; " AUemagne " 
apparently getting perverted to 
"Almonds " : Bruet of Almaynne in 
lente, 19 ; Bruette Sareson, 19 ; 
Hennys in b., 18, see Napier, p. 
114 ; Oystrys in b., 23 ; Walkys La 
b., 23 ; Tenche in b., 23 ; Chykonys 
in b., 23, see L.C.C., p. 22 ; Muskelys 
in b., 24, see F. of C, No. 122; 
B. saake, 27, see Warner, p. 78, 
'■^Browet seeke "; Bruet Moii amy, 68 ; 
see Napier, p. 32. This is boiled 
cream, boiled again with brayed 
curds, honey, and butter : thickened 
with yolks of egg, and leched. 
Brwet, 21. See Cotgr., "Brouet : 
Potage, or broth ; also, any liquor, 
podge, or sauce, of the thicknesse, 
or consistence of that whereof our 
pruine-tarts are made." Napier, 
p. 34, has also " Eles in Bruet" as 
also Warner, pp. 68, 85. 

Bryndons, 15, and Bryndonys. It 
seems as if this were Bryndons, as 
it is glossed bryneeus in margin of 
A., and the form brendonse (more 
likely u than ;i) occurs there, and is 
glossed lozenges : but it is not the 
dish called ^'' Brymeus" in F. of C, 
though that is probably the same 
word, and ought to be printed 
^'■Bryniexis." 

Bryse, vb.t., 6. Bruise. 

Bryih, «^'., 12. Bright; glowing in 
coloiu". 

Bukenade, 113, see Bokenade. 

BuUace, see Bolas. 

Buttes of Porke, 53, 54, 76 ; Buttys of 
Vele, 14, 48, of Calf or of Porke, 17, 
85, Porke, 44. Butts, buttocks. 

Butter, sh., 73; Buttur, 83. See 
Boter. 

Buttry, adj., 75. Buttery; soft as 
butter. 

By-clippe, vh.t. 48. Beclip. 

Bynde vppe flat with flowre of rys, 
Bynd vppe witA Flowr of Rys, o\qt 



witA whetyn floure, 33. Make stiff : 

see Murray, Bind, 10. 
Byne, vh.t., 112. Bind; tie. 
Bytor rosted, 79, see Douce MS., 

No. 111. Napier, p. 62, " Bittii^r 

Rost." Bittern. 
Bytyng, adj., of Pcpir, 40. Biting; 

hot, stinging. 
Bywese, 24 : compare Wese in Douce 

MS., Recipe 174. Skald yd bywese 

seems to mean "just a- wash," or 

hardly covered. Compare ouer-wewyd, 

on p. 25, which is used in same sense, 

and see A-wese. 

Caas, sh., in caas, 96. In case. 

Cabbage, see next. 

Cabochis, 69, Caboges, 6, 33; see 
Warner, pp. 52, 75, Douce MS., 
No. 173. This is the French Cahoche, 
Head, which is still used in the 
Channel Islands for Cabbage. 

Qa,c.c\iQ,vh.int.,2%. Catch; stick: still 
used in this signification in cookery, 
of meat, etc., when burnt to the pan. 

Cakys, sh., 15. Cakes. 

Calf, 17 ; Calfesfete, 37; Caluys fete, 
25 ; Calvis, 85. 

Canel, sh., 6, 7, 8, 9, 13; Canele, 
113 ; Caneli, 92, 95, Floure of CaneH, 
71 ; Canelle, 12, 13, 14, 20. Fr. 
Cannelle, Cinnamon. 

Canvas, sh., 20, 27, 41 ; Canneuas, 39, 
Canvas (for straining). 

Capon, 2; Capons stwed, 72; Capon 
en Counfyt, 115, see Warner, p. 56; 
Capoun inConsewe. 18, see Warner, 
II. 6, and F. of C, No. 22, " Gapom 
in Coney," and see Consewe, below ; 
Capoun in Salome, 33 ; Capoun or 
gos farced, 41, Goce or Capon farced, 
81, see Douce MS., No. 36 ; Capons 
of hie grece, 67, Capoun de haut grece, 
57, i.e. crammed ; Capoune broj^e, 
31 ; Capounys, 21. 

Carpels of Veneson, 68. 

Carpys, sh., 21. Carps. 

Cas, sh., 25. Case. 

Cast, vh.t., 25; Caste, 12, 25; Caste 
vppe out of a j^otte, 34. 

Caudel Ferry departed with a bla- 
manger, 31; CaudeH Fery, 91, 



124 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOKS. 



Cawdelle Ferry, 15, see F. of C, 
iS^o. 41, L.C.C., p. 16, Warner, pp. 
82, 83, " C. ferres," Douce MS., No. 
90, Napier, p. 32, p. 33, " C. Ferreiis," 
and p. 109 ; Caudele, 113, CaudeH, 
96, see Douce MS., No. 183, L.C.C., 
p. 51 ; Cawdelle de Almaunde, 16, 
Caudell de Almondes, 96, see Douce 
MS., No. 159, L.C.C., p. 15, "C. 
dalmone," Napier, p. 81, " C. of 
Almondes" p. 108, " C. dahnond" 
F. of C, No. 87, " Cawdel of Almaund 
rnylk " ; Cawdel out of lente, 33 ; 
" Caudel rennifing," is also in ^YAR- 
ner, p. 82. Caudle ; Old Fr. Cau- 
dcUe. 
Cauderoun, sh., 39. Caldron. 
Cesou, vb.t., 69, 70, 85. Season. 
Ceuere, vh.t., 8, 48, Ceuyr, 39. Cover; 

see Keuer. 
Chaaf, vh.t., 85 ; Chafe, 37. Warm. 
Chafer, Chafere, si., 44 ; ChafFre, 93 ; 
Chaffur, 93 ; Chafoure, 16. Chauffer 
(for heating). 
Chared Coneys, or chardwardon, 106, 
Chardequynce, 12, 13 ; Charde- 
wardon, 12, 88, see Douce MS., No. 
53 ; Napier, p. 81 ; Chare de war- 
doun leche, 37 ; Lange Wortys de 
chare, 5, see Douce MS., No. 1 ; 
Gelye de Chare, 25 ; Lesynges de 
C, 44, see Douce MS., No. 74 ; 
Tartes de C, 47, see Douce MS., No. 
45 ; Mortreus de C, 70, see Douce 
MS., No. 81 ; Graund chare, 57 ; 
Grosse chare, 58. Fr. Chair, Flesh : 
compare flesh of a Melon. 
Charge de quyns, 88. Charedequince. 
Char^eaunt, adj., 16, 18, 19, 30, C. 
]\lYlke of Ahnaundys, 27. Stiff, 
thick. 
Chargeauntly, adv., 27. Stiffly. 
Charger, sh., 101; Chargere, 52; 
Chargeo!/r, 78, 109 : Chargeoure, 23. 
Large dish. 
Charlette, 17, 117, seeDouceMS., 178, 
F. of C, 39, L.C.C., p. 11, Napier, 
p. 104, and p. 121, Warner, pp. 82, 
88; L.C.C., p. 11, '' Charlet" and 
" C. icoloured.'" Charlet a-forcyd 
ryaUy, 17, see Napier, p. 29, 
''Charlet forced," F. of C, No. 40, 
" C. yforced" Warner, p. 82, 



" Charlet enforsed." Charlette is the 
Fr. Chair laitee, i.e. Flesh with Milk ; 
and is now spelt Charlotte. 
Chaudewyiie.95, Chawdwyn,76,Chau- 
dou/«,108, Chauudonofflssh,114 ; see 
Douce MS., Nos. 41, 163, ''Chaudyn;" 
Napier, p. 49, and p. 10.3, " Chau- 
dron for swan," also F. of C, No. 143, 
L.C.C., p. 9, and Warner, p. 65, 
" Chaudern for swannes " ; F. of C, 
No. 115, Chavjdo7i for Lent, Napier, 
p. 88, Chaudron for Samon, and p. 
90, Chaudron of jpiggsfeet. Chawdron; 
entrails. 
Chawettis, 3; ChawettysFryidde, 45, 
C. a-forsed. 46, Chawettys, 48, (two 
Recipes,) Chewettes, 98. See Douce 
MS., Nos. 50, 156, L.C.C., p. 41, 
"■Chewetes," Napier, p. 55, " CAe- 
wettes of beef" " C. ryalle," p. 56, " C. 
on fishe dales," for which see also 
L.C.C., p. 41, and F. of C, No. 186 ; 
Warner, p. 65, " Chowettes on flesshe 
day," for which see also F. of C, 
No. 185, and L.C.C., p. 41. In 
Good Husicifes Eandmaide for the 
Kitchin, (1594), If. 39, it is used for 
the lump or cake of paste for a tart, 
"Make two Chewets as you would 
make two tarts." R. Holme, Armory, 
III. iii. 82, says, " Chevnt, or small 
pie ; minced or otherwise." 

Chek, Chick, 81. See Chik. 

Chehens endored, 68, see Chik; 
Chekynes, 86. Chickens. 

Chekyr, sh., 49, 50. Checker. 

Chepe, sh., 7 ; Chepis, 38, 39. Sheep. 

Chese, sh., 20, grene chese, 48: 
Chesefatte, 36, Cheese press. 

Chesmeyne, 60. ? Jessamine. 

Chete, vh.t, 34. Set. 

Cheueiine, 60. 

Chicken: see Chehens, Chik, Chjlenys. 

Chik farsed, 81; Cliike endored, 
81, see Napier, p. 66; also see 
Chykenys. 

Chop, see Alloices. 

Choppe, vh.t., 13. Chop. 

Chykenys, sh., 25; Chykons in 
dropeye, 30 ; Chykonys, 2, 19, 55 ; 
Chykonysinbruette,23; Schyconys 
with \e bruesse, 32. Chickens. 



GLOSSARY AND INDEX. 



125 



Chync, sh., 102, Chine, back: Chyne 

bon, 103, Chine-bone. 
Chyne, vb.t., 102, 104. Chine, 

chop. 
Chyrioun, 2 ; Chyryoun, 29, see F. of 

C., Ko. 58, Chyri/se, Warner, p. 47 ; 

Chyryis, 29. Cherries. 
Cinnamon, see Canel. 
Ciprys, Cyprys, Vyaund de, 21, 28. 

Cyprus. 
Ciuey, 114, see Cyuey. 
Clarey, sh., 93; Clareye, 35; Clarre, 

93 ; Clerye, 35. Clarry ; aromatic 

wine. See note in Warner, p. 90. 
Clarifi, vl.t., 35. Clarify. 
Clarifiyd, a(li.,\ionj, 12, 15, 22, 35; 

Claryfiyd Boter, 53. Clarilied. 
Clees, 102, Claws. 
Clene, adv., c. chargeaunt, 30 ; c. 

rennyng, 31. Clean ; quite. 
Cleuey, vb.int., 21. Cleave; stick. 
Cleuyng-, sb., 42. Cleaving; sticking. 
Close, vh.t., 45, 46. 
Clo]7e, sh., 17, 19. Cloth. 
Clones, sh., 80, 82 ; Clone, Clouys of 

garleke, 110; Clous, 113 ; Clowes, 6, 

10, 13, 15, 91, Ponder of Clowes, 97 ; 

Clowys, 8, 9, 10, 13, 35. Cloves : 

Fr. clou. 
Clowte, sh., 37. Clout ; cloth. 
Clowty, adj., 53. Clotty. 
Clowtys, sb., 47. Clouts, clots (of 

cream). 
Codelynge, Trype of Turbut or of, 18 ; 

Codlynd, 11 ; Haddok or codlyng, 

104, see Douce MS., Xo. 144, 

'■'■Haddok ou codlyng huille" ; Codlyng, 

2, 10, 14 ; Godly ngis, 16. CodUng. 
Codling, see Codelynge. 
CoflPyn, sh., 74, 93, Coffyns, 73; 

Cofyn, Cofynne, 47 ; Cofyns, 45, 55 ; 

Cofyuuys, 53. Coffin ; crust of a 

pie. 
Cokentrice, 115 ; Cokyntryce, 40 ; 

Cokyntryche, 62. See Warner, p. 

66, ''Cokagrys," F. of C, No. 175, 

Cocagres ; which form is made up 

of Cock, and Grys or Oris, pig, the 

animals which jointly make up the 

dish. 
Cole, vh.t., 107. Cool. 
Coleys, 10. See Waenee, II. 11, 



" Colys," also p. 80, " Colys of Jlessh " ; 
L.C.C., p. 20, "Kohls'"; Napier, p. 
112," Colles. " Fr. " Coulis : A cuUis, 
or broth of boiled meat strained ; tit 
for a sicke, or weake bodie," Cotgr. 

Colon2<r, 113. Cullender. 

Coloure, vb.t., 7. Colour. 

Colpons, sh., 89. Coupons; slices. 

Colouryd Sew without fyre, 20 ; see 
Napier, p. 38. 

Colons, sh., 109. Colys, 17, 29, 54, 
114. Coals. 

Colys, sh., 69. Coles: cabbages. 

Comad, sb., 56 ; Comade, 42, 46, 48, 
50, 51, 55, 56 ; Commade, 48, 54. 
Mixture. The word is used in F. of 
C, 113 ; and is spelt Commode in A. 

Come to-gederys, 45. Unite; come 
to one consistence. 

Comfyte, sh., Anys in c. Anise pre- 
served in sugar, 8, 10, 32 ; Brawn 
in comfyte, 34 : see Warner, p. 59, 
" Jjor in coutifett," and p. 79, " Boor 
in confith " ; Datys in comfyte, 63 ; 
Sugre in coufyte, 32, where A. reads 
" Sugre of coufitens." 

Commelyche, adj., 34. Comely, 
seemly. 

Compost Potage, 59, see L.C.C., p. 18. 

Composte, Perys en, 12, 87 ; see 
Napier, p. 100, Douce MS., No. 57. 
See also Cotgr. : " Composte : a 
pickled, or winter Sallet of hearbes, 
fruits or flowers, coudited in vinegar, 
salt, sugar or sweet wine." 

Confeccions, 88, Confections; pre- 
serves. 

Congere, sh., 14; Congre, 59; see 
Napier, p. 73, "■ Congur." Conger- 
eel. 

Consewe, Capoun in, 18. This seems 
the same as Capon in Co7icis, see F. 
of C, 22, Warner, II. 6, L.C.C., p. 
24, " Capons in Conisye.'" Napier, 
p. 116, " Capon hi couns." Concis, 
again, seems to be the same word as 
Ganse or Gauncely, and no Gauncely 
is mentioned in either of the above. 

Coney, see next. 

Conyng, 80, see Napier, p. 64, Douce 
MS., No. 116, "Conyrost." Conyng, 
Mawlard, in gely or in cyuey, 14, 



126 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOKS. 



Conyng, hen, or Mallard, 80, see 

Douce MS., No. 68, ''Cony, gelyn, 
ou malard ew oyle,'" Napier, p. 79, 
" Cony o)- malard in cevy ; " 
Conyng in Gravey, 80, Conyngys 
in graueye, 18, see Warner, 
11. 10, p. 58, and p. 78, F. of 
C, No. 26, L.C.C., p. 8, Douce MS., 
No. 66, Napier, p. 101 ; Conyngys 
in cyveye, 20, see F. of C, No. 25, 
L.C.C., p. 20, Napier, p. 112, War- 
ner, p. 59, and p. 78 ; Conyng or 
hen in clene broth, 80, (" clere broth " 
in Douce MS., No. 67), see Warner, 
p. 59, F. of C, No. 66, which both 
read " Conynges in clere broth " ; 
Cony ; 0. Fr., Connin. Holme, 
Armory, II. vii. 132, says — " A cony 
is a rabbit after the first year ; the 
animal being a rabbit till the end of 
the first year." 

CopuH, sh., 67. Couple. 

Corances, Corauns. Currants. See 
Rasonys. 

Core, sb., 51 ; Corys, 24, 30. 

Corkes, sh., 106. Cokes, Cores. 

Costardys, «5., 47. Costards: (apples). 

Cosf-marye, 110, herb. 

Cours, Course, sh., 49. Layer. 

Cowche, rh., 44. Couch ; lay. 

Cowe Mylke, 29, 110. 

Coynes, 106, Quinces. 

Crabbe or Lopster boiled, 102, see 
Douce MS., No. 134, Napier, p. 70 ; 
Crabbe au Creuei/s, 59 ; Crabbys, 28. 

Crane, rested, 78, 116, see L.C.C., 
p. 35, Napier, p. 61. 

Crayfish, see Creue). 

Crees, 38. Compare " Crescloth, Pine 
linen cloth," Hallitvell. 

Cream, see nest. 

Crem de Colonre, 20 ; Creme, 2, 8 
10, Fride C. of Almaundys, 7, 91 
see Douce MS., No. 12, Warner, p, 
69, " Crem of A Imonde mylk," Napier 
p. 42, "■Creme of Almonds"; C 
Boylede, 8, 92, see Warner, pp. 69 
82, Douce MS., No. 13, Napier, p 
32, " Creme bnyle ; " C. Bastarde. 
33; Creme Moundy, 62 ; Creme Vine 
69, ? Cream with wine over it. 

Creme, vh.t., 93. Crimme ; crumble, 
see Kreme. 



Creuej, sh., 49 ; Creueys, 59. See 
Holme, Armory, II. xiv. 338, 
" Crevice, or Grefish," (crayfish) ; 
O.F. Crevice, Mod.'Fr. Ecrevisse. It 
includes Lobsters. 

Crodde, sh., 17 ; Croddes, 36, 43, 73 ; 
Croddys, 36, 56 ; Cruddes, 86 ; 
Cruddis, Cruddys, 53. Curd. 

Crodde, vh. int.', 17; Croddith, 92; 
Crudde, 86, 92. Cm-d ; curdle. 

Cromej, sh., 53; Cromys, 33, 52. 
Crumbs. 

Cromyd Marow, 55. Crumbed 
(crumbled) marrow. 

Croppe of netle, 69. Young top. 

Crostes, 113, see Cruste. 

Crouste, vh.int., 32. Crust over. 

Crowne, sh., 52. Crown. 

Cruddes, see Crodde. 

Cnistade, 50, 55, Custarde, 74, see 
Douce MS., No. 22, Warner, p. 65, 
"Crustade," L.C.C., p. 40, F. of C, 
No. 154, " Crustardes of Flessh," F. 
of C., No. 156, " Crustardes of Fysshe;" 
Crustade lumbard, 51, Custard 
lumbarde, 74, see Napier, p. 53, 
"Custad lomhard," Douce MS., No. 
23 ; Crustade Ryal, 55, 68 ; 0. 
gentyle, 55 ; Napier, p. 54, has also 
a " Cusiad opyne," i.e. open. Florid, 
1659 ed., " Crostdta, the crust or 
coffin of a pie, a pas tie, a custard, a 
tart, any kind of crusty meat, any 
pie or pastie-crust, any meat drest 
upon tostes or crusts." 

Cruste, sb., 53; Crustys of whyte 
brede, 30 ; Cruste Rolle, 46. 

Cryspe^, 44, Cryspes, 93, see F. of C, 
No. 162, "Cryspes," No. 163, " Cry- 
spels," Douce MS., No. 61, " Crispes," 
Warner, IL No. 26, " Cryppys" ; 
Cryspis, 3. Cotgr., "Crepez, ou Cre- 
pets : Fritters ; also, Wafers." Mod. 
Fr. Crepe. 

Culpe, vb.t., 4S. Cut in thick slices : 
Fr. Couper. 

Curlewe rested, 79, see Douce MS., 
No. 113 ; Curlewys, 57. 

Curnylles, 109, Kernels. 

Custard, see Crustade. 

Cyprys, Cyprus, see Vyand. 

Cytte, vh.t., 5. Cut. 



GLOSSARY AND INDEX. 



127 



Cyuele, 113. 

Cyuey, cyvey, 49 ; Conyng, Maw- 
lard, in gely or in cyuey, 14, see 

Napier, p. 79, " Cony or malard in 
ceJi'j/," Warner II. No. 51, ^^ Mallard 
in cyuey " ; Harys in Cyuey e, 18, 
Tenche in c, 23, see Napier, p. 80, 
Conyngys in cyueye, 20. Mod. Fr. 
Civet or Cice. Stew with chives. 



Dace, 20. 

Darioles, 53, Dariolles, 75 ; Daryoles, 

47, 55, 56 ; see Douce MS., No. 71, 
L.C.C., p. 38, "Darials," F. of C, 
No. 183, '' Baryols," Napier, p. 56, 
" Baryolites," Warner, p. 66, ^' Ba- 
ryalys." See Cotgr., " Darioles, 
Small pasties filled with flesh, hearbes, 
and spices, mingled and mixed to- 
gether." 

Dates, sb., 33, 88. 94 ; Datis, 24, 53 ; 
Datys, 12, 15, 16, 19, D. in comfy te, 
63. 

Defaute, sb., of def., 22, in def., 29 ; 
in defawte, 20, for d., 41. Default. 

Degre, sb., 36. Degree ; pitch (of 
colour). 

Del, Dele, sb., 21, to del jolkys of 
eyron, 21 ; A gode dele Salt, 15, i.e. 
of Salt. Deal ; portion. 

Departe, vb.t., 21 ; Gely Departed, 
69, compare the Recipe on p. 31 ; 
Departyd, 31. Depart ; part into 
shares ; split. 

Dewte, vb.t., 43. 

Deye, sb., 36, 37, 56. Dairy-maid: 
see Chaucer. 

Deye, vb., 52. Die. 

Dise, vb.t., 69. Dice ; cut into Dice. 

Disshful, 112. 

Dissoii, sb., 67. Dozen. 

Diteyne, 110. Dittany. 

Diting, sb., 105. Digtiting; prepara- 
tion. 

Do, vb.t., do away, 10; Do aboue, 
put above, 112 ; Do it in a faire 
vessel, Put it in, 112 ; Do ]7er-to, 
Add thereto, 1.3, 14, 110, 112; Do 
modle. Make meddle, or mix, 82 ; 
Don, 10, Done, do. 

Doble, vb.t., 39. Double; fold over. 



Doderellys, 61, Dotterels. 

DogR, 73, Dough : see Bow. 

Doke, 64, Duck. 

Dore, vb.t., 38, 40. Glaze; compare 

next word, and Endore. 
Dorre, Soppes, 90, Soupes dorrees, 
114, Soupes Dorroy, 11, Soupes 
dorye, 11 ; i.e. Sops endored, or 
glazed with almond milk. Dorry, sb., 
11. See Endore. 
Doucete, adj., 33 ; Dowcet, 7, 29, 30. 

Fr. Doucet, sweetish. 
Doucetej, 50; Doucettes, 55, D. a- 
forcyd, 55 ; Doucetys, 64 ; Doucettys 
4 ; Dowcet liyal, 62, Dowcetys, 55 : 
" Doucet ; A lytell flawne," Pals- 
grave. Cheesecake. 
Douuw, adv., 7. Down. 
Doust, sb., 112; Douste, 110, 113. 

Dust. 
Dow, sb., 42, 43, stronge Dow, 49. 

Dough. 
Draf, sb., 22; of Almaundys, 16. 

Draff; refuse. 
Dragge, sb., 11. Dredge. 
Draw, vl.t., 7, 8, Draw vp, 7, Strain ; 
Draw Jjorw straynowre, 5, 8, 9, Draw 
uppe l^orw strayn., 20 ; draue, 106. 
Drawe, vb.t., 9. Draw; eviscerate. 
Drawyd, adj., 5. Drawn (through 

strainer). 
'Drawyn grwel, 10, see Douce MS., 
No. 33 : A. reads here '■'■ Bravme 
gruelle." Drawyn Eyroun, 42, 44. 
Drawn (through strainer). 
Dregge, sb., 99; Dragge, 11. Dredge. 
Dresse, vb.t., d. forth, 13, yn, 14; 
Dressyst yn, 15. Dress ; serve in to 
table. 
Dressing knyfe, 93 : see Bressoiire 

hiyf. 
Dressoure, sb., 24, 28, 30, 31, 34, 
Dresser : Dressoure knyf, 53, Dresser 
knife, apparently knife for trimming 
meat for the table ; called Dressing 
knyfe in Douce MS., and above. 
Dropey, 2 ; Chykons in dropeye, 30 ; 
see F. of C, No. 19, "i>;-epee," which 
is the recipe for the sauce. 
Dropping, sb., 77, 99. Dripping. 
Drovv in Sonne, 38, Dry in sun. 



128 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOKS. 



Dry, adj., PuH dry, 78. Pluck clean. 

Dryit, 39. Dryeth. 

Dubbate, 1 ; Gelyne in dubbatte, 13. 
This may be a perversion of Jus 
hdtard ; see references under Bastard : 
the word is spelt Dieubate in Douce 
MS., No. 69, and Gelyne endobat 
is the form in the Eecipe on 
page 80. 

Dyse, sh., 39. Dice. 

Dysshe, si., 8, 14; Dysshys, 14. 
Dish. — Dyssche-fuUe, 54. 

Dyuerse, adj., 36. Diverse (in colour). 



Easly, adv., SeetB easly and longe, 73. 
Gently. 

Eche a coffyn, 74, Each Coffin. 

Efte, adv., 43. Eft; after. 

Egges, Potage de, 94 (Poached Ep;gs), 
see Douce MS., No. 100, '■'■Egges 
pocche]" F. of C, No. 90, " Pochee " ; 
Eggijs Ryal, 62. See Ey. 

Eggys, 54, Edges. 

Egredoucetes, 113, Egredouncye, 31, 
see F. of C, No. 21, " Egurdouce " 
(Flesh) ; F. of C, No. 133, '' Egur- 
douce of Fysshe," and Warner, p. 
45, and p. 72 (Fish) ; Warner, p. 44 
(Fruit), p. 57, '■'■Egurdouce to potage," 
(Soup) ; Browne in Egurdouce, 71, 
see Douce MS., No. 56. Fr. Aigre-' 
doux, sour-sweet. 

Egrete rested, 79, Egrett rest, 116 ; 
see Napier, p. 63 ; Egretez, 58. 
Egret, a kind of Heron, see Cotgr., 
Aigrette, Egrette. 

Eier, sb., 73. Air. 

Eiren, 83. Eggs : see ^y. 

Eisel, 110 : see Uijsel. 

Ele, sh., 48 ; Elys in Gauncelye, 22 ; 
Elys in Sorre, 89, 61, see Douce MS., 
No. 25, Warner, p. 68, p. 85 ; Bakyn 
Elys, 59, Elys Rostyd, 59, 60, 62, 
Scdt Elys, 59, Salt Elys with galen- 
tyne, 60. 

'EWes, conj., 8 ; Ellej, 75, 88 ; Ellys, 
6, 10, 15 ; Els, 109. Else. A. reads, 
" ellys Skynnys of Plays," in recipe 
ex. p. 26, probably rightly. 

Enche, sb., 75. Inch. 

Endore, vb.t., with jolkys of Eyroun, 



41, 47, 52, 75. Glaze ; compare Dare, 
above ; Fr. endorer, gild. 

Endelonge ]>e spete, 97, Endelonge 
the bak, 104 ; Enlonge, 71, 78. End- 
long ; along. 

Entrayle, 38. 

Erbeblade, 76. See Herhelade. 

Erbis, sb., 6, 31 ; Erbys, 19. Herbs. 
F. of C., No. 151, has a " Frytour of 
Erbes." 

Er|7en, adj., 7, E. pannys, 54 ; Erj^yn, 
109. Earthen. 

Eron, 82, 83. Eyren : eggs. 

Esyli, adv., ise]>e esyli, 42. Easily ; 
gently. 

Etyn, pp., 52, Eaten. 

Euelong, adj., 53. Oblong. 

Even, adv., 14 ; Euene, 6, 7 ; Euyne, 
12. Even ; evenly. 

Euery, adj., 20, 27. Every; each.' 

Ey, sb., 19 ; Eyeron, 81 ; Eyreil, 83 ; 
Eyron, 8, Eyron en poche, 24 ; 
Eyroun in lentyn, 41, see Napier, 
p. 37, "Eggs in lent"; Eyroun, 11, 
12, 14, 17, 31 : Warner, p. 89, 
has a recipe for " Eyren Gelide," 
see the dish on page ,58 of this 
volume, which means Eggs in 
Jelly, not Iced eggs ; he has also 
'■'• Eyryn in hruet," II. No. 23. See 
Egges. 

Eysel, sb., 28; Eysel Wyne, 31. 
Eisel ; wine vinegar. 0. F. ^ isil, Eisil. 



Faire, adj., faire ppitte, faire potte, 
faire grece, faire brede, 82, clean, 
nice ; adv., leche it faire, but not 
to thyn, 71, of moderate thickness ; 
Eoste hem faire, 82, moderately, 
nicely ; Fayre oyle, etc., bright, good, 
13, 14, 15 ; Fayre, clean, 13, 15 ; 
F. pecys, moderate-sized, 13; F. Fyre, 
? bright, 15. 

Fan, vb.t., fan owt, 7. Blow out 
(chaff, etc.). 

Farce, vb.t., 41, 48. Stuff. 

Farced, adj., Caponn or gos farced, 
41 ; Farcyd, 3 ; Pygge y-farsyd, 40. 
Stuffed. 

Farcere, sb., 46; Farsour, 113; Far- 
sure, 39, 43, 49. Stuffing. 



GLOSSARY AND INDEX. 



129 



Fars, sh., 45. Farce ; stuffing. 

Fastc, adv., 27. Fast; tight. 

Fasty??g dayis, 17. 

Fauntempere, 19 ; spelt Faintempere 
on page 2. 

Fayre, adj., see Faire. 

Feche, rb.t., 36. Fetch. 

Felettes of Porke endored, 82, F. in 
galentyne, 82 ; see Fylettes. 

Fere, sh., in fere, together, 20. 

Yere, adj.,SZ. Fair: moderate sized. 
See Faire. 

Fesaunt Host, 116, Fesaunte rested, 
78 ; see Napier, p. 60. 

Fe]?er, sb., 31, 53. Feather. 

Fey, sJ., 101. Liver ; Anglo-Fr. Feie. 

Fig, see Figus, Fygys. 

Figee, 113 ; Fygey, 94, Fygeye, 24 ; 
see Warner, p. 46, F. of C, No. 89, 
Napier, p. 119, '■'Figge," Douce MS., 
No. 162, ''Figee.'" The dish is called 
''Fgguade" in L.C.C., p. 42. A 
^^ Fyge to potage," is also given in 
Warner, p. 67. The '■'■Fygey'' in 
Warner seems to be from Fige', 
thickened, see Cotgr., '■^ Laid fige," 
as there are no figs in it ; at the 
same time the figs thicken it, and 
Figuade would be the more likely 
form from Figue. 

Figus, 112. Figs. 

Fillet, see Felettes, Fylettes. 

Firmanty, 105 : see Furmenty. 

Fissh, Blaumanger of, 114, Blamange;- 
ofFyshe,23; Chauudon of fissh, 114; 
MortrewesofFysshe,14,Mortrowes 
of fissh, 114; luschelle of F., 16 ; 
Gelye de F., 26 ; Potage on a Fys- 
daye, 29 ; Fyssday 9 ; Potage on 
fysshday,15; Fyssheday,ll,30. Fish. 

Flake Water, 21, should probably be 
" slake," i.e. warm. 

Flampoyntes bake, 53 ; Flampoyntys, 
4 ; see F. of C, No. 113, No. 184, 
Flaiompeyns," Warner, p. 66, 'Flam- 
poyntes" ; Flampayn, 60 ; Flampoyne, 
60. Flampoynte is Flan points, and 
is so called from the small points of 
pastry with which the open Flawn 
was stuck, and made bristly. 
Flat, adj., bind up f., 33 ; serue in 



flatte, 33 ; sette out almost flatte, 33. 
The word here refers to the stiffness, 
or thickness, of a semi-fluid ; see 
especially Recipe cxxix. p. 29. 

Flathons, 51, Flathonys, 73 ; see 
Douce MS., No. 16, ''Flathonys," 
L.C.C., p. 39, "Flaunes;" Flathouns 
in lente, 56, see Warner, p. 48, 
"Floicnys in Lente." Cotgr., "Fans, 
Flawnes, Custards, Egge-pies." 
Littre, " Flan. Tarte faite avec de 
la creme fouettde, des oeufs et de la 
farine." The word is derived from 
the low Latin Fladonem ; compare 
O.H.G. Flado, Mod. G. Fladen. 
They were open tarts. 

Flawns, see Flathons. 

Fie, rl.t., 10, 18. Flea: flay. 

Flesh, Tartus of, 74 ; Tartes de 
chare, 47, 52 ; Fless day, 113 ; 
Flesshe day, 30 ; Mortrewys de 
Fleyssh, 14 ; Fleysshe, l,10,Rapeye 
of F., 25. "F[le]ysshe" in Recipe 
cxix. p. 28, should be " Fysshe," as 
A. also reads. 

Florche, vh.t., 30; Florisshe, 113; 
Floryssche, 47. Flourish ; garnish. 

Flos campy flo?<r, 31. Flower for 
ornamenting dish. 

Floundres boOed, 102, see Douce MS., 
No. 136. 

Flour, sh., 38 ; Floure Rys, 38 ; 
Whetyn floure, 33 ; Flowre of whete, 
46, Whete Flowre, 38, Flowre of 
Amidons, 16, F. of Canelle, 15, F. of 
rys, 6, 15, 16, 18, 19, 20, 29. 

Flowre, vb.t., 26. Flour. 

Flowres, sh., 23; Flowrys, 20,29, 
F. of hawj'om, 29 ; Flow^erys, 20. 
Flowers. 

Foiles of prtrcelly, 102. See Foyle. 

Forced with milke and rawe yolkes 
of eyren, 117. See A-forcyd. 

Yore, prep., \0&. For. 

Forlonge wey, or ij, 91 ; Forlong- 
wey, 7 ; A. reads here " a furlonge 
Way or ij," while the Douce MS. has 
" Forlange." This apparently means 
the time one would take to that 
distance. 
Fors, sh.. It is no fors, 33. Force ; 
matter of importance : a French 
Idiom, see Cotgr., Force. 



130 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOKS. 



Forsayd, adj., 28 ; forsayde, 38. 

Foresaid. 
Fort, conj., Fort hit breke, 114; 

Fort that, 114. Until. 
Forjier-more, 29. Furthermore. 
For-wet/;, adv., 41. Forthwith. 
Foure-square, 46, iiij scpare, 44. 

Foiir-square ; square. 
Foyle, sh., of Syluer, 27 ; Foyles of 

ginger, 96. Foil ; leaf, paring. 
Fraiod oyle, 93, 96. Apparently 
fried oil, which is still used over again 
in France. See Fray. 
Franchemyle, 3 ; Frawnchemyle, 39 ; 
see L.C.'C, p. 36, " Frauncke mde,'' 
Warner, II. No. 15, " Fronchemoyle," 
Napier, p. 119, '■'■ Fraunt hemeile." 
CoTG., " Francheniulle d'vn mouton, 
A sheepes call, or kell." Mulle, or 
Mide, is O.Fr. for poche. Compare 
" Franch e mule cfun boeuf. The purse, 
bag, or skiune, wherein the stones of 
an Ox, etc., be contained." — Cotgr., 
s.v. Utile. 
Fray, vl.t., 89. Fry. The Douce 

MS. has " fray hit." 
Fresche, adj., 5 ; Freys, 6 ; Freysshe, 

6, 9, 10 ; Freyssche, 52. Fresh. 
Fiete, ^'i.^., 113. Fret ; rub. 
rretoure,44, Frutours,73 ; see L.C.C., 
p. 39, Warner, II. No. 19, No. 40 ; 
Longe Fretoure, 43, 73, see Douce 
MS. No. 14 ; Longe FnUowrs, 68 ; 
Lente Frutowrs, 96 ; Fretoure owt 
of lente, 46 ; Leche Frutowr, 68 ; 
Frutoure Rasyn, i.e. of Eaisins, 69 ; 
Frutoure Sainata, 62 ; Frytoure da- 
maske, 62 ; F. of C. has also " Fry- 
tour of Myll-e," No. 150, and " F. of 
Erhes,"^o. 151. O.Y.Friture, Frying. 
Fride, adj., 7 ; Fryit, 1 ; Froyde, 7. 

Fr. Froid, —e. Cold. 
Fritter, see Fretoure. 
Froyse, 86, Froyse out of Lentyn, 45, 
see Douce MS., No. 182, L.C.C., 
p. 50, Warner, II. No. 18 (veal) ; 
F. in lentynne, 42. Fr. Fraise, 
pancake. They were round fritters. 
Froyte de almondes, 91, called in 
Douce MS., No. 11, ''Froydelet dal- 
mandes," i.e. Cold Almond Milk. 
Frutours, 73, see Fretoure. 



Fry, vh.t., Fry in oyle, 21, 30, 42, 

45, 93 ; in grece, 1*4, 30, 44 ; Frye 

vppe brown in Oyle, 43 ; Fry in 

grece or buttur, 73. 

Fry, sh., of Pyke, 95 ; Frye of Pyke, 

16. Roe. 
Fryid, adj., 12, " Oyle fryid,'''' which 
may mean either cold oil, or fried oil, 
which is still kept and used again 
in France ; see Fraied oyle, above ; 
at page 46 it means fried. 
Frying-pan, 73 ; Frying-panne, 42, 

45 ; Fryng-pan, 86. 
Fulle, vl.t., 39. Fill. 
Fullyche, adv., 9, 29. Fully; quite. 
Furmenty wttA purpaysse, 17, Fir- 
menty with porpeys, 105, see 
Douce MS., No. 171, Napier, p. 
86, F. of C, No. 69, No. 116, 
Warner, p. 66 ; Venyson WitA 
f., 6, F. with venyson, 70, 68, see 
Douce MS., No. 180. Eecipes for 
FuiTQenty are given in Napier, p. 
100, Warner, II. No. 1, and p. 81, 
L.C.C., p. 7. "Furmenty is a Wheat 
husked and boyled," Holme, Armory, 
II. iii. 56. 
Fuyr, sh., 12; Fuyre, 78. Fire. 
Fygys, sb., 15, 16, 24. Figs. 
Fylett^s, sh., 49; Fylettys, 38. 
Fillets. Fylettys en Galentyne, 8, 
82, see Napier, p. 89, F. of C, No. 
28 and No. 117, Warner, p. 58, 
L.C.C., p. 31 ; Felettes of Porke 
endored, 82, see Douce MS., No. 
127, " Filettes de pork en gallentyne,^' 
or '■'en-dorre)," Napier, p. 67, '■'■Feletes 
of Pork." 
Fyngerys, sh., 44, 52. Fingers ; 

(and as measure). 
Fyre, 41, 42, Fii'e. 



Gader, vh.t. 7, 17, 31 ; Gadere, 7, 45; 
Gadre, 42. Gather. 

Galentyn, Lampreys in, 32, see Na- 
pier, p. 117, F. of C, No. 126, L.C.C., 
p. 25, Warner, p. 46 ; Lamprons 
in Galentyne, 100, see Douce MS., 
No. 46, F. of C, No. 127, Warner, 
p. 70 ; Pike in galentine, 101 (two 
recipes), see Douce MS., No. 75, 
Napier, p. 79 ; Fylettys en Galen- 



GLOSSARY AND INDEX. 



131 



tyne, 8, see Napier, p. 89, F. of C, 
Nos. 28, 117, Warner, p. 58, L.C.C., 
p. 31 : Galyn tyne, 109, 0.F. Galentine. 
For the Recipe for Galentine see 
Sauces. 

Galingale, sh., 107; Galyngale, 13, 
15,34,54. See Cotgr., " Galmffcd. 
The Ai'omaticall root of the rush 
called Cypresse, and Enghsh Galiu- 
gale." 

Galon, sh., A gode g., 22 ; Galouns, 
12, 22. Gallon. 

Gape, vh.int., (of boiled muscles 
opening), 90. 

Garbage, 9, 72, see Douce MS., IS'o. 83, 
Napier, p. 78 ; Garbagys, 9. Giblets. 

Garleke, sb., 23, 110; clone, 110, 
Clouys of garleke, clowes of g., Cloves 
of gaiiic, 109. 

Garlic, see Garleke. 

Gauncely, 2 ; Elys in Gauncelye, 22 ; 
Hennys in G., 23. See '■'■ Janse, 
jance, gance, sorte de sauce ;" Gode- 
froy. It would almost appear to be 
properly a sauce for goose ; compare 
" Gances, Auseres silvestres ; " Du- 
cange. It is also spelt GaunceH, as 
in Douce MS. : for the sauce see 
Sauces. 

Gaylede, 22. 

Gele of pesoii, 95, Gelye de Fysshe, 
26, see Douce MS., No. 175, F. of C., 
No. 101, Warner, p. 72, II. No. 36 
(Fish or Flesh) ; Gely (calves foot), 
86, see Douce MS., No. 174; Gelye 
de chare, 25, see F. of C., No. 102, 
" Gele of Flessh" Napier, p. 42, 
" Gilly of fleshe" Warner, p. 44, and 
p. 61; Gele Potage, 68. Fr. Gele'e. 
Jelly. 

Gelofervs, si., 19 ; Gelofres, 15 ; 
Gelofrej, 48 ; Gelofrys, 21. Gilh- 
flowers. 

Gelyne in dubbatte, 13, Gelyne en- 
dobat, 80, see Douce MS., No. 69, 
and Duhhate : Gelyne in brothe, 81, 
see Douce MS., No. 89, see also 
recipes under Hen. Fr. Gelin, Hen. 

Gilliflower, see Geloferys. 

Ginger, see Gyngere. 

Gobet, sh., 31, 55; Gobettys, 6, 13, 
18, 23, 55. Gobbet ; lump. 



Gobet, vh.t., 54; Gobete, 112. Gob- 
bet ; cut into gobbets. 

Gobouws, sb., 10, Gobbets. 

Goce, ab., 81, Goose. See Goos. 

Goions fryid, 60. Fried gudgeons. 

Golet, sb., & Golett, 116. Gullet. 

Goos in hogepotte, 18, see Warner, 
p. 57, p. 84, and II. No. 22, F. of C, 
No. 31, L.C.C., p. 32 ; Goce or Capon 
farced, 81, Capoun or gos farced, 
41, see Douce MS., No. 36 ; Gos, 2 ; 
Gees, 8 ; Wilde gese, 76. Goose. 

Graspeys, 59 ; Royal Fish, as Stur- 
geon or Whale, but applied also to 
other fish. 

Grate, vh.t., 6. 

Gratid, adj., brede, 16, 21 ; gratyd, 
14. Grated. 

Grauey, Oystres en 13, 100 ; Whyte 
pesyn in g., 33 ; Conyngys in 
grauey e, 18 ; Grauy, 1 ; Oystrys 
in g. bastard, 13. Gravy. 

Graynys, s3., 28 (? as next); ofprt-rise, 
6, parys, 34, Perys, 27, Grains of 
Paradise ; of Pome-garnad, 29. 

Grease, see Grece. 

Grece, sb., 7, 8, 14, 34. 45; Whyte 
gr., 29 ; Gres, 43. Grease. 

Gredelle, sh., 40; Grydelle, 21. 
Girdle (for cooking). 

Gredyl, vh.t., vp broun, 40. Girdle ; 
cook on girdle. 

Gredire, sh., 102, 103 ; Gredren, 100 ; 
Gredryn, 102, 103; Gredyre, 36. 
Gridiron. 

Grene, adj., 15, 20 ; Grene chese, 48. 
Green. 

Gret, adj., a gret dele, 12, Gret 
Roysouns, 15, Crete roysonys, 33, 
Great Raisins, i.e. not Currants ; 
Grete pyes, 76 ; Gretter, 15, Greater. 

Gridel, 114, see Gredyl. 

Grouwdyn, adj., 38, Ground ; brayed. 

GroweH, 70; Growelle Force, 70, 
Gruelle a-forsydde, 6, see Douce 
MS., No. 32, L.C.C., p. 47, ''Gruel 
of fors," F. of C, No. 3, " Grewel 
forced," Warner, p. 51, " Growel of 
force," Napier, p. 88, " Gruelle en- 
forced;" L.C.C., p. 20, has also '■'■Gruel 
'of Porke ; " Drawyn grwel, 10, see 



132 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOKS. 



Douce MS., No. 33 ; Grwele, 10 ; 

Grwelle, 1. Gruel. 
Gruel, see Growell. 
Grynd, vb.t., 12; Grynde, 9. Grind. 
GuisseH, 87 ; see Iiischelle. 
Gullys, 62, 63. Gulls. 
Gurnard, sb., 25; G. rested orboyled, 

103, 104, see Douce MS., No. 141, 

Napier, p. 74 ; Gornard, 14 ; Gurnyci 

hroylid tcith a syryppe, 62. 
Gutte, sb., of purpays, 42, ? the 

pouch : Guttys, 108. Gut. 
Gyngaudre, 15, Gyngautrey, 94 ; see 

Douce MS., No. 161, Warner, p. 70, 

'' Gi/ngatvtre," F. of C., No. 94, 

" Gyngcnvdryy 
Gyngerbrede, 35 ; Gyngere brcde, 3. 

Gingerbread. 
Gyngere, sb., 10, 11, 17, 25, 32; 

Whyte Gyngere, 21 ; Gyngeue?-e, 

115 ; Gyngiuer, 114. Ginger. 
Gysers, sb., 72, 76, 108 ; Gysour, 41 ; 

Gysowrys, 9. Gizzard. O.F. Gezier. 

Hache, vb., 14, 18 ; Hak, 76 ; Hakke, 
13, 14, 18, 23. Hack ; hew. 

Haddok, sb., 10, 11, 16; Haddok 
or Codlyng, 104, see Douce MS., 
No. 143; Haddoke in Cynee, 114, 
see Napier, p. 72. Haddock. 

Hagas de Almaynne, 44, Hagas da 
almondes, 84, see Napier, p. 43, 
'■'■ Hagges of Ahnayne,'''' Douce MS., 
No. 21, "Hagys dalrnaygne" ; Hagase, 
3 ; Hagws of a schepe, 39, see 
L.C.C., p. 52. Haggis. 

Hak, vb.t., 76, Hack. 

Hake, sb., 16. 

Hakkyd, pp., 32. See Hacke. 

Halful, 55, Half -full. 

Halfyndele, 20; Halvyndele, 41. 
Half-deal, or part. 

Halybutte, 60, Halibut. 

Ham, pron., 37. Them. 

Handfulle, sb., 28. Handful. 

Handys, sb., 14; Hond, 16; Hondys, 
15, 35. Hand, hands. 

Hanoney, 43, 84. See also Douce MS., 
No. 24. Apparently Oignone ; see 
also Oignonade, inLiTTRE, a dish with 
many onions in it, as this dish has. 



Hard, vb.t., 56, Harde, 54 ; Harde, 

vh.iiit.,Al ; Hardyd,p.50. Make hard. 

Hard, adv., sethe hard, 12. Fast ; 

shai-ply. 
Hardid, «///'., 56. Harded ; hardened 

(in oven). 
Hare, sb., 19, Hare in Wortes, 69 ; 
Harys in Cyueye, 18, see Warner, 
II. 8, L.C.C, p. 21, Napier, p. 113 ; 
Warner has also " Haris in Talbo- 
tays," II. No. 9 (see this Work, p. 19), 
and " Hares or conynges in seue," p. 
78, see L.C.C, p. 21. 
Haselle, sb., leuys, 31 : Spete of h., 

39. Hazel. 
Hawj'om, Flowrys of, 29 ; Haw- 

thorun, 20. See Spyneye. 
Hasselet, sb., 97; Hastelette, 106. 
Harslet : Douce MS., " Haslet." 
'■'■ Hastelet, dimin. de haste, viande 
rotie. " — GoDEFROY. 
Had, sb., 9, 16; Hedys, 16, 42. Head, 
Hef, vh., 53. Heave; lift. 
Hegh, adj., "lb. High. 
Held, vb., 39. Throw; cast. 
Hele, vb.t., 27, 47, 73. Cover, 
Helyd, p.p., 52. Covered. 
Hem, pron., 14, 15, 19, 34, 40. 

Them : 18, 19, 40. Him. 
Hen, sb., 14 ; Conyng or hen in 
clene broth, 80, see Douce MS., 
No. 67 ; Conyng, hen, or Mallard, 80, 
see Douce MS., No. 68 ; Vele, kede, 
or henne in Bokenade, 13 ; Hennys 
in bniette, 18, see Warner, II. 7, 
Napier, p. 114, L.C.C, p. 22, and 
p. 49 {''Henne in hrothe''); Hennys 
in Gauncelye, 23, see L.C.C, p. 24, 
Napier, p. 116; Henne, 13; Hennys, 
19, 21. See Gelyne. 
Her, sb., Her syue. Hair sieve, 113. 
Herbelade, 54, 'Herbe-blade, 76 ; see 
Napier, p. 58,"'Hayrblad opyn" {i.e. 
open, with no top crust,) Douce MS., 
No. 184. So called from the herbs in 
the cakes. See Ducange, '■'Herbo- 
lasta," a cake stufled with herbs. 
Herbs, see ^rbis. 

Here, 24. The hairy appendage of the 
Mussel, called " Muskles Wool," in 
HoLiiE, Armory, II. xiv. 345 ; now 
called the Byssus. 



GLOSSARY ASH INDEX. 



133 



Heron rested, 78, H. rost, 116, see 

L.C.C., p. 35, Napier, p. 62, Herons, 

68 ; Heyroun, 62. 
Heron-sewe, 68 ; Heron sewes, 61 ; 

HerousewYS, 59. Herusliaw ; young 

Heron. 
Herte, sb., 41 ; Hertys, 8. Heart, 
Hery of bonys, 14 ; Hairy with 

bones. 
Hete, sb., 22 : rb., 11 ; bete bote, 12. 

Heat. 
Heyroun, 62. Heron. 
Hew, vb.t., 7, 17; Hewe, 6, 17. 
Hogepotte, Goes in, 18 ; ^' Rochepot: 

A hotcb-pot, or Gallimaufrey." 

— COTGR. 

Hogbes, sb.,b\ ; Howe, 37; Howbys, 

25 ; Hojos of fele, 86. Hock. 
Hoi, adj., 19, 27; Hole pepir, 8, 9 

Hool, 55 ; Hoole, 12. ^^^lole. 
Hold coloure, keep colour, 25 

Holdyn, pp., 7. 
Hole, vb.intr., 7, Hull; lose the busks 

Hoole, vb.tr., 33, Hull ; strip off bulls 
Hon, sb., 105; Holys, 7, S2, 114 

Hull ; busk. 
HondefuH, sb., 72. Handful. 
Honge, vb.infr., 36; hongy, 7. Hang. 
Hony, 6, Clarifiyd b., 12, Hwyte 

Houy, 29. 
Hoifi, 106, of Wbelk. 
Hote, adj., 10, 12. Hot. 
H.q., 12. IToc qucere : like q. v. 
Hure, byre, adj., 13, 18. Her. 
Hwyte, adj., Hony or Sugre, 29, 

Sugre, 54. White. 
Hy, adj., komytbonby, boils up, 17. 
Hym, profi., 18 ; Hyt, 35. Him: It. 
Hyrcbouns, 62. See Yrcbons. 



I-ete, 99, Eaten. 

Isope, sb., 27 ; Isoppe, 74. Hyssop. 

I-sothe, pp., 18. Sodden. 

loissh 116, Juice. 

JoUys of Samoun, 61, Salmon Jowls. 

loutes, 5 ; louutes, 1. See Kapiek, 
p. 108 (Almond), L.C.C., p. 15, 
'■'■Jtnits dalmond," F. of C, No. 9'S, 
(Ahnond), Wabner, p. 67, " Jowtes 



of Almand Mylke ; " F. of C, No. 
73, " Fremhe Owtes ; " F. of C, No. 
5, " Eowtes of Flessh," AVarxer, p. 
52, " Joutes on Jiesh day," p. 80, 
" Joietes of Jlessh^' ; "Warner, p. 80, 
" Jowtes of fi/sshe " ; L.C.C., p. 47, 
48, "JoM^es," (Vegetables). lust seems 
equivalent to Jus, Juice, see Cotgr., 
and is spelt Joust in Warner, p. 89 ; 
and see Ducange, ^'■Jutta, potionem 
coufectiuii ex lacte spissioi'em." 

loynte, sb,, 116. 

luce, sb., 92: Ins, 15, 31, 40, 41, 
45 ; Juse, 21. Juice. 

lunte, rb.t., 116. Joint. 

luschelle of Fysshe, 16, lussheH, 95 
(Fisb) ; lusseH, 95 ; see Warner, 
p. 86, " Jussel of fi/sshe." Douce 
MS., No. 166, ''GicisseU " (Fish) ; see 
also Warner, p. 82, ^^ Jussel of Jlessh," 
Napier, p. 26, " Juselle sengle," 
(flesh), p. 87 and p. 104, " Jusselle " 
(Flesh), L.C.C., p. 11 (Flesh), War- 
KER, II. No. 21 (Flesh), and Warner, 
p. 82, F. of C, No. 44, " Jusshell 
enforced.'''' '■'■Jus.'tel, j us, potion," Gode- 
FROT : Juscellum is late Latin for soup. 
See Guissell. 

Kake, sb., of dow, 43 ; 85. Cake. 

Kaste, vb., 52; Kest, 115. Cast: 
tbrow. 

Kede : Vele, kede, or henne in Boke- 
nade, 13, 85, see Douce MS.. Nos. 76, 
77 ; Kede rosted, 81, see Napier, p. 
65 ; Keed 85 ; Kyde a-Forsyde, 41. 

Kele, vb.int., 7, 12, 13, 24 ; Kelid, 38. 

Kelyng, sb., 94, 96. Keeling. 
Holme, II. xiv. 334, says it is tbe 
common Cod, but it seems identified 
with Codliug elsewhere. Florio, 
1659 ed., see Eug.-ltal. part, trans- 
lates it by Merluzzo, wbich he says 
is tbe Haddock-fish, or according to 
others the Sea-ivhiting. 

Kerf, vb., 38; Kerne, 22, 36, 112. 
Carve : cut. 

Kerve, vb.t., in a morter, 70, Bray. 

Keuere, vb.t., 45, 52 ; Kouere, 112 ; 
Kyuer, 43 ; Kyuere, 46, 50. Cover : 
see Ceuere. 

Kid, see Kede. 



134 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOKS. 



Kne, Knese, 116; Kneys, 116. Knee. 

Knede, vh.t., 38. Knead. 

Knyf, s5., 35 ; KnyfP, 34. Knife. 

Koddys, 43. See Bene-codde. 

Komyth, 17. Cometh. 

Kowe mylke, 35. 

Kreme, sb., 7, 39 ; of Alraaundys, 

42. Cream. 
Kreme, vb.t., 35, 40 ; Kryme, 35. 

Crimme ; crumble. 
Kutte, vh.t., 21. Cut. 
Kychoun, sh., 34, Kitchen. 
Kyde, see Kede. 
Kyn, 114, Cows, 
Kyrneleys, sh., 34 ; Kymellys, 30, 

32. Kernels. 
Kyt, vh.L, 7, 11; Kytte, 7, 10, 11, 

14, 15, 18, 26 ; Kyttyst, 52. Cut. 
Kyttyng, sh., 26. Cutting. 
Kyuere, vh., 46, 50, 52. Cover : see 

Ceuere and Keuer. 



Ladel, sh., 7, 10 ; Ladelle, 17. Ladle. 
Ladel-ful, 8, Ladleful. 

Lamprays bake, 52, Lamprey I-bake, 
98, see Douce MS., No. 60, L.C.C., 
p. 38, Napier, p. 49, p. 121 ; Lam- 
prey poudred, 99, see Douce MS., 
No. 1 30 ; Lampreys in galentyn, 32, 
see Warner, p. 46, F. of C, No. 126, 
L.C.C., p. 25, Napier, p. 117 ; Sauce 
pour lamprey, 99, see Douce MS., 
No. 30 ; Warner, p. 46, has '■'■Lamprey 
in hruet.'" 

Lamprons y-bake, 100, Lampro?ms 
y-bake, 51, see Douce MS., No. 91 ; 
Lamprons in Galentyne, 100, see 
Douce MS., No. 46, F. of C, No. 
127, Warner, p. 70 ; Lampronys, 32 ; 
Lamprounys, 61. Lampern. 

Larde, &h., 19, Lard ; Lardej, Lardys, 
49, Tliin slices. 

Larde, vh.t., for roasting, 18, 78 ; cut 
in thin slices, 40, used in the same 
signification in A., see this book, 
p. 19, recipe Ixvij ; the bracketed 
"mynce" being "larde" there. Lard. 

Larkes rosted, 68. 

Lasse oj^er more, 45. Less or more, 

Lat. fJ., 12, 21, 25, lat blede, 52; 



Late, 7, 21, 43, Late deye, 52, Late 
blode, 52 ; Let, 12, 21 ; Lete, 
12, 21. 
Laumbere, adj., 26. Amber. 
Leche, sh., 34, 71 ; L. lumbarde, 35 
(2 Recipes), 92, 93, see Douce MS., 
No. 54, No. 55, F. of C, No. 65, 
Warner, p. 62, Napier, p. 34, '■'■Lesh 
lombard"; L. Vyaundes, pt. II., 
Harl. MS. 279, p. 34, see Viaund; 
Lese fryes, 75, see Douce MS., No. 
43, Napier, p. 59, '■'Lesche freez;" 
F. of C, No. 158, has "■Lesshes fri/ed 
in lenton " ; Lechys, 25, 32, 34. See 
CoTGR., ^'■Lesche : A long slice, or 
shiue of bread " (or other edibles). 
There are also in the Banquets Leche 
harry, 62, Leche cremy ryall, Leche 
FriiUmr, 68. The Leche harry was 
a leche with bars of gold and silver 
as adornment. 

Leche, vh.t., 12, 13, 17, 18, 31, 71; 
Lechyst, 35 ; Lesshe, 12. Cut in 
leches. 

Lechyd, j9^., 35. Cut in leches. 

Lechyngys, sh., 15. At first sight 
this looks like Lechings, but A. 
glosses it Lozenges, and Losenges is 
also spelt "lechyuges" in A., in the 
recipe on page 44. 

Led, sb., 73; Lede, 49; Ledys, 47, 
48. Lid of pot, and top crust of 
pastry coffin. 

Lede, sh., 39. Lead. 

Leek, see Lehys. 

Lef, vh.t., 12 ; Lef . . out, 51. Leave. 

Lekys, sh., 14. Leeks. 

Lemys, 26. Limbs. 

Lenge, sh., 43, 48. Ling ; the fish. 

Lente, sh., 2, 12, 19, 33, 43, 56 ; 
Lentyn, 29, 33, 41, 45 ; Lentynne, 
42. Lent ; the season. 

Lere, adj., 50. Lear; empty. 

Lese, vb.t., 21, 38. Pick. 

Lese fryes, 75, see Leche. 

Lesenges Fries, 97, see Douce MS., 
No. 154, Napier, p. 58 : Lesynges 
de chare, 44, Losinges de chare, 82, 
see Douce MS., No. 74, L.C.C., 
p. 40, ''Loysyns," F. of C, No. 49, 
'■'■Loseyns," both of Cheese. Napier, 
p. 80, F. of C, No. 128, "Lessiuffis 



GLOSSARY AND INDEX. 



135 



on Jische dais"; Lesyngys, LesyngJ, 
44. Lozenges. 

Let lory, 17, Lethe lory, 85, see F. 
of C, No. 81 ; Lete lardys, 3, Let- 
lardes, 92, Lette lardes, 35, see 
Warner, p. 63, " Leche lardt/s," 
Napier, p. 87, p. 106, " Ledlardes," 
L.C.C., p. 13, '•'• Lede lardes" F. of 
C. No. 68, " Lete Lardes.'" Fr. Lait, 
Milk : the " Let lardes " seem origi- 
nally to have been " Let lardd," or 
" Larded milk," and to have been 
changed to the substantive lardes or 
lardys, and become " Milk lards," 
and the Let even got changed into 
Leche, as above, the larded milk being 
cut into Leches. Holme also says 
that Leach is " a king of jelly, made 
of cream, ising - glass, sugar and 
almonds, with other compounds." 

Lete, vb., see Lat. 

Leuer, sh., 16, 41; Lyuer, 16; 
Lyuerys, 9, 16. Liver. 

Leuys of p^rcely, 7, of borage, 8. 
Leaves. 

Leuyth, 40, Remaineth. 

Ley, vh.t., 109. Lay. 

Ley, Leye, sh,, 32. Lie ; Lees of 

wine. 
Ling, see Lenge. 
Litel, adj., 16 ; A litil an a litil, 17 ; 

Littel, 16 ; Litul, LituH, 71 ; Lytel, 

24; Ly telle, 53; Lytil, 15, 16, 17; 

Lytylle, 18. Little. 
Liver, see Leuer. 
Loach, see Loches. 
Lobster, see Lopster. 
Loches, Lochys, 24, Loaches: Menese 

or loche boiled, 104, see Douce MS., 

No. 148. 
Lof, sb., 6. Loaf. 
Loft, On, Aloft, 78. 
Longe Fretoure, 43, L. Frutours, 73, 

68, see Fretoure ; Lange wortys de 

chare, 5, see Douce MS., No. 1 ; 

Lange Wortes de Pesoun, 5, 89, 

see Douce MS., No. 2. 
Longebeff, sb., 5. '■'■Lange de boeuf. 

Ox-tongue, rough or small Buglosse," 

Cotgr. : A. reads here " longedebef." 
Lopster, s5., 102, Crabbe or Lopster 

boiled, 102, see Warner, p. 47 ; 



Lopstere, 24 ; Loppcstere, 114. 

Lobster. 
Lorey de Boolas, 25 : "Lora, Potionis 

mellitse genus," Ducange. There is 

honey in the Bullace. 
Lozenges, see Lesenges. 
Luce, «5., 39, 42, 57; Luvs,l 12; Luyss, 

113 ; Luyjs, 113. Full-grown Pike. 
Lust, vb., 41 ; Luste, 55. List; like. 
Luys, Luyss, see Luce. 
Ly, vb.t., 15, 19; Lye, 13. Allay; 

mix. See A-lye. 
Lycour, sb., 6, 11 ; Lycoure, 12, 26; 

LycowTe, 11,13; Lykoure, 1 2. Liquor. 
Lyer, sb., 20 ; of Brede cromys with 

wyne, 33. Liour ; mixture : spelt 

"lyre"inF. of C, p. 28. 
Lyid, jBi/)., 13. Allayed. 
Lykey, vb., 31. Like; please. 
Lynne clout, 112, Linen clout. 
Lynen clojie, 9, 34. 
Lyode Soppes, 11. ? Allayed, steeped 

sops. 
Lyte, adj., 17. Little. 
Lyuerys, 9 ; see Leuer. 
Lyjt, adj., 17. Light; small. 



Mace, vb.t., 35. Make. 

Maces, sb., 6, 10, 15; Macej, 46; 
Macys, 8. Mace ; the spice. 

Malasade, 83, see Douce MS., No. 10, 
and Meselade ; Malesade, 84. 

Mallard: Conyng, hen, or Mallard, 
80, called " Cong, geli/n, ou riialard 
en oyle^' in Douce MS., No. 68 ; 
Mawlard, 8, 12, 63, Conyng, M. in 
gely or in cyuey, 14, the same Recipe 
as above ; Warner, II. No. 51, and 
p. 62, 85. 

Malmens bastard, 93, Malmenye Fur- 
nej, 48. See Mammenge. 

Malvis, sb., 69; Malwys, 5, 15, 
Mallows. 

Mammenye bastarde, 22 ; Maumenye 
Ryalle, 22 ; Mawmene, 88 ; see 
Douce MS., No. 167, Napier, p. 118, 
'■'■ Mammony," Warner, II. No. 30, 
'■'■ Maumene,''' p. IQ, '■^ Maivmene,^'' F. 
of C, No. 20, " J/awme;iee,"No. 194, 
"i/aw»ieu?iy,"L.C.C.p. 26,^^Momene'' : 
Warner has also on p. 55, "Maw- 



136 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKEKY BOOKS. 



mene to potage" (a soup). The word 

is apparently derived from the Fr. 

malmener, the meat being teased 

small. Compare Malmenye, above. 
Mange moleyn, 36. Possibly named 

after a person ; see Ri/s Moleyn) 

on page 59 : both have Rice as 

ingredient. 
Manged brede, 83, Manchet bread ; 

Douce MS. " Maynche " : see Mengycl 

Flowre, and Faynemain. 
Mannys, 97, Man's. 
Marbyl coloure, 34. Marble colour: 

variegated. 
Marbylle, adj., 29, Marbly ; A. 

reading " marbely. " 
Marew, sh., 56 ; Marow, 40, 44 : 

Marw, 6 ; Marwe, 6, 8, 51 ; Mary, 9 

(but A. reads here " meribonys," in 

place of " mary, brothe,") 74, 84 ; 

Marye, 32 ; Merow, 44, Merw, 9, 

Marrow. 
Maribonys, 55, Marw-bonys, 55, 

Mary-bones, 70, Marybonys, 5, Mery- 

bonys, 5, 6, 46. Marrowbones. 
Marling; Fryid Marlyng, 59, Mer- 

lyng soj^e, 61. Whiting: Yx. Merlan. 
Marrow, see Marew. 
Mawe, sh., 38, 39; Mawes, 18, 106; 

Mawys, 18, 38. Maw ; stomach. 
Mawmeny, 68, see Mammenye. 
Medel, xh.t., 73 ; Medle, 75 ; Med- 

ylde togidre, 73. Meddle : mix. 
Melle, vl.t , 24, 30. Mell ; mis. 
Mence, vb.t., 41. Mince. 
Menese or loche boiled, 104, see 

Douce MS., No. 148; Menyse, 104. 

Minnows. 
Meng, vb.t., 46; Menge, 17. Mix: 

mingle. 
Mengyd Flowre, 43, Manchet flour, 

compare Manged brede, Meyned flour : 

Douce MS. reads " Mayned Q.our.'" 
Meselade, 42 ; Meslade, 43. ? Jleslade, 

mixture : spelt Malesade in Douce 

MS. and in A. See Malasade. 
Messe, vb.t., 30, 114; Messe forth, 

11, 114. Mess ; portion. 
Metys, 35, Meats. 
Meyned floure, 83 : flour for Painde- 

main, or Manchet bread, see Mengyd 

Flowre. 



Mighti, adj., 71. Mighty: strong. 

Milk, see Let. 

Milkemete, 106 ; Milke Rostys, 40, 
called Mylke Rostyd, on page 3, see 
Napier, p. 109, War>er. II. No. 
25, L.C.C., p. 17 ; Mylke of al- 
maundys, 6, 7, 13. 

Millet boyled, 104, see Douce MS., 
No. 147, Mullet. Fr. mulet. 

MilleweH, sb., 96; Milwel, 43, 48; 
Llilwelle, 48 ; Mulwyl taylys, 61 ; 
My 1 well, 16. Mulvell : said to be 
Haddock. See, however. Holme, 
Armory, II. xiv. 334, where he says : 
"The Keling or common Cod, is 
called the Welwell in Western parts 
of England." In the E7ig. It. part 
of Florio, ed. 1659, the Melwel also 
is identified with the Keeling ; also 
inCoTGR. (see '■'Merlus "), and is there 
said to be a small kind of Cod, of 
which Stockfish was made. See 
Keeling. 

Mince, vh., see Myce, Mynce. 

Minnows, see Menese. 

Molberys, 28, Mulberries. 

Molde to-gederys, 35. Mould, or 
roll, together. 

More, adv., 19. 

Morreye, A rede, 28 ; Murrey, 19 ; 
Murreye, 28 ; see F. of C, No. 38, 
'■'Morree," Warner, p. 48, " Morrey" 
II. No. 37, ''Murrey;' p. 84, ''Murre," 
and p. 56, '■'■Murre to potage " (a soup). 
It is so called from the mulberry, or 
dark red colour of the dish, and in 
the recipe in Warner, II. No. 37, 
mulberries are used to colour it : 
sometimes wine or saffron is used. 
It. Mora, mulberry ; " Morello, the 
murreyor black-berry colour,"FLORio; 
'•'• Moree: A kind of murrey, or darke- 
red colour," Cotgr. ; " Moratum : 
Potiouis genus ex vino et moris 
dilutis confectse," Ducange ; also 
Moretum. 

Morter, sb., 11, 27, 28 ; Mortere, 28, 
35, 53 ; Mortre, 109. Mortar for 
braying. 

Mortrewes of Fysshe, 14, 114, Mor- 
ti'ewes of Pesyn, 90, see Douce MS., 
No. 82, Napier, p. Ill, Warner, 
p. 86, F. of C, No. 125, L.C.C., 



GLOSSARY AND INDEX. 



137 



. p. 19 ; Mortreus de Chare, 70, 
Mortrewys de Fleyssh, 14, see 
Douce MS., No. 81, Warner, p. 75, 
Napier, p. 102, L.C.C., p. 9 ; Whyte 
Mortrewes, 19 (Hens), White Mor- 
trewys of Porke, 28, seeF. of C, 45, 
'■'■Mortrews" and Warner, II. No. 5, 
''Morterdi/s," F. of C, No. 46, ''Mort- 
reus blank" Napier, p. 106, Warner, 
p. 62, L.C.C., p. 13, "■ Blanch yd mor- 
trews" all made from Hens and 
Pork. Italian Mortarello, a Mortar, 
Florio : in Ducange "Mortariolum" 
is applied to a dish prepared from 
bits of meat, and there are also the 
forms " Mortairol," and (in Littre) 
" Mortayrol " : see Mortadello, " A 
large sausage," in Littre. Modern 
3/ortress, A dish of pounded meat : 
the II being hquid in the French 
would give the form Mortrews. 

Morwe, Morrow, see A-morwe. 

Mosselle, sh., 42 ; Mosselles, 83, 
Mossellys, 30, 112. Morsel. 

Motley, adj., 36. 

Moton. si., 8, 9 ; Motouw, 9 ; Alows 
de Beef or de m., 40, 83 ; Trype 
de m., 7, 82, see Douce MS., No. 4 ; 
Brest de mottoil in sauce, 85, see 
Douce MS., No. 86 ; Stwed Muttoii, 
72; MutouJi, 8 : see Mutton. 

Moiintance, &b., 42. Amount. 

Mow, vh., 38. May. 

Mowntayne, sb., 84. Compare JfoMwi- 
ance, above. 

Muscules in broth, 90, see Douce MS., 
No. 78, Napier, p. 78 ; M. in shelle, 
90, see Douce MS., No. 79, Napier, 
p. 78 ; Muskelys in bruette, 24, see 
F. of C, No. 122 ; Warner, p. 68, 
has also ''Musculs in sewe" : Musculis, 
90 ; Muskele, 24. Mussel. 

Mussel, see Muscules. 

Mutton, Stwed, 72 (Stewed); Tripe 
de M., 82, see Douce MS., No. 4; 
Allowes de M., 83, see Douce MS., 
No. 17. 

Myce, vb.t., 71, 76, 99. Mince. Fr. 
micei; michier. 

Myced, adj., and jO/?., 72, 75 ; Mysed, 
74. Minced. 

Mvddel, si., 42; Myddelle, 52. 
Middle. 



Myghty, adj., 12. Mighty; strong: 

(Broth). 
Myid brede, 39, 49. Crumbed bread : 

Fr. Mie, crumb ; see L.C.C., p. 8, 

"Myed,"p. 11, " Myud." 
Mylej in Rapeye, 46. 
Mylt, vl.t., 51 ; Mylte, 86. Melt. 
Myites, si., 70; Myltys, 8. Milts; 

spleens. 
Mynce, vh.t., 16, 29, 110, Mince: 

Mynced, adj., 15, 16, 76 ; Myncyd, 

14, Minced. See Myce. 
Myntes, 110. Mints; the herb. 
Mythty, Myjthty, adj., m. wyne, 22. 

Mighty ; strong. 
Myjt, Myjth, vb., 27. Might. 



Namely, adv., 41, 107. Especially. 

Nape, vh.t., 102, 105. 

Navel, 14. 

Nedyl, sh., 40. Needle. 

Neme, vh.t., 6, 22 ; Nym, 14, 21, 23, 

30, 39 ; Nyme, 23, 30, 32. Nim ; take. 
Neres, sb., 70; Nerys, 8. Ears: A. 

reads here " eris." 
Nese Bekys, 45, see " Kysebeh," F. 

of C, No. 173. 
NessB, adj., 75; Neyshe, 6; Neyssche, 

48, 53 ; Neysshe, 24, 27 ; Nessher, 

94. Nesh ; soft. 
Nombles of Veneson, 70, Nomblys of 

be venyson, 10, see Douce MS., No. 

39, F. of C, No. 13, and No. 54, 

Warner, p. 53, and II. No. 12 ; see 

also Napier, p. 103, and L.C.C., p. 

10, (any) ; Napier, p. 90, " Nombles 

of Jische." Numbles, p. 114, is 

imperfect. Umbles. O.F. Xomhhs; 

compare Late Lat. Numbulus, for 

Lat. Lumhulihs. 
Non, adj., 35. None; no. 
Notcmyggej, 109. Nutmegs. 
Noteye, 31. So called from the nuts 

in it. 
Nowne, 73. Oven. 
Nowt, adv., 6, 8, 11 ; Nojt, 7, 8, 16. 

Not. 
Numbles, see Nombles. 
Nutmegs, see JSfotemygge]. 



138 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOKS. 



Oatmeal, see Otemele. 

Obleies, sb., 73 ; Oblye, 46. Oble ; 
thill cake. Cotgr., " Ovblie : A wafer 
cake ; such a one especially as is 
sweetened only with honie ; also, the 
thinne past that serves for the bot- 
tomes of Tartes, and March-panes." 
See DucANGE, Oblata. There are 
the forms Oblee and Oblie, and the 
original sense of the word is conse- 
crated wafer, as an offering. 

Of, adv., 8 ; prep., 27, 42. Off. 

Oil, see Oyle. 

Oille de oliue, 114. Olive oil. See 
Oyle. 

On, adj., 36, 53, One; prep., 5, 40, 
In. 

Ondo, vl.t., 17. rndo. 

One^, adv., 44; Onys, 6, 7, 18, 45. 
Once. 

Onions, see Oynons. 

Ope, vb.t., 18. Cut open. 

Or that, Till that. Till, 55. 

Orage, sb., 5. Orach. Ang.-Fr. 
Or ache, Fr. Arroches, see Cotgr. : 
Lat. A triplex, see Mow at, Alph., 
p. 22. 

Otemele, sb., 6, 10; Ote-mele, 42. 
Oatmeal. 

Oj7er, conj., 21, 22, 34. Or. 

Ouer-cast, vb.t., 49 ; Ouer-caste, 48. 
Turn over. 

Ouere-coucr, vb.t., 85. Cover over. 

Ovenne, sb., 53 ; Ovyn, 47, 48, 54 ; 
Ovynne, 50. Oven. 

Ouer eve, 20 ; Oueruyjth, 33, Over 
night. 

Ouer-renne, vb.int., 36, 37. Overrun, 
run over. 

Ouer]7wart, adv., 40 ; Oueretwarde, 
115. Across. 

Ouer-wewyd, pp., 25. Compare 
" Biweved, covered," Halliwell : 
wettn/d is glossed " wasshe," i.e. 
washed, in A. 

Ouer-wose, 86. "Washed over; com- 
pare A-wese. Douce MS. reads 
" wese." 

Owrys, sb., 7, 37. Hours. 

Oyle, sb., 12, 0. of Oly^, 30 ; 
O. soppes, 96, 115, O. soppys, 12, 
see Napier, p. 81. Oil. 



Oynons, sb., 6, 110; Oynonys, 5, 8, 
9, 10 ; Oynouns, 109 ; Oyuenons, 14. 
Onions. 

Oystres en grauey, 13, 100, see 
Douce MS., No. 65, F. of C, No. 
121 ; Oystrys in g. bastard, 13 ; O. 
in bruette, 23, see L.C.C., p. 53, 
Warner, p. 47 ; 0. in cevey, 100, see 
Douce MS., No. 184, F. of C, No. 123. 



Paast, sb., 74, 97, 105; Paaste, 98 ; 

Paste : see Past. 
Pacience, sb., 69. Patience (the 

herb) : Snakeweed, a kind of dock. 
Pancake, 46. 
Panche, sb., 82, panches, 94 ; 

Paunches, 94. Paunch. 
Panne, sb., 42, 43, forliying; Erthen 

pannys, 54. 
Panteryse, 59. 
Papyns, 9. Cotge., "■Fapin; Pap 

for children." 
Parboyle, vb.t., 6, 8, 12, 13, 41 ; Par- 

boyled, 100 ; Parboylid, 13. Parboil. 
P^rboylingge, adj., 84, That is being 

parboiled. 
Parcelly sb., 72, 81 ; Pffrcely, 72 ; 

ParciH, 81 . Parsley. See Perceli. 
Parchement, 46. 
Pare, sb., 30. Paring; peel: A. 

also thus. 
Pare, vb.t., 7, 12, 16, 24, 27, 30, 34, 

47, 51, 71, Pare ; peel (fruit and meat) ; 

Pare in ij. or in iij., 87, cut in two 

or three. 
Pare^, Pyej de, 53, Pies of Parys, 75, 

see Napier, p. 58, Douce MS., No. 

72 ; Parysgingere, 110. Paris. 
Paris, see Pare]. 

Parsley ; see Parcelly and Perceli. 
V-AYie, vb.t., 2Q, Part; divide. 
Partricli rested, 78, seeNAPiER, p. 61, 

Douce MS., No. 109 ; P. stwed, 78, 

Pertrich stewyde, 9, see Napier, p. 

95, Douce MS., No. 28 ; Pertriches, 

19 ; Pertryche, 1. Partridge. 
Party, sb., 20, 27, 40; Partye, 29, 

40 ; Parti, 40. Part. 
Partye, 46, Party coloured. 
Past, sb., 45, 51 ; Paste, 39, 41, 98 ; 

Paast, 74, 75. See Paast. 



GLOSSARY AND INDEX. 



139 



Pastelade, 59, Pi/delade chaud, 62, 
P. fryid, 62, 'Petelade Fryid, 62. 
Pastelet, ? Pasty : it may be a 
pounded dish. 

Payne Pujfe, 61, 68 ; Payn pur-dew, 
42, P. purdeuj, 83 ; see Douce MS., 
No. 7, Napier, p. 46, " Payn par- 
dieu ; " Peynreguson, 112, see F. of 
C, No. 67, " Payn Ragon \ " there is 
also " Payn Fondew " in F. of C, 
No. 59. " Payn purdew " may be 
compared with " Payn Fondew," the 
bread being lost or covered in what 
is poured on it, and possibly dissolved 
in the " Payn Fondew." In Napier 
the bread is smothered in Batter, 
here apparently in butter. See also 
LiTTRE, " Pain, 10. Pain perdu, 
nom donne en cuisine provinciale, k 
la brioche frite." For "Payn Pufte," 
see Pety Peiiiantes. 

Paynemain, sb., 8, 11, 52; Payne- 
maynne, 11 ; Paynemaynnys, 11 ; 
Paynmain, 83; A Paynmain, i.e. a 
loaf of the bread, 90 ; Paynmaii, 83. 
"Floure of payndemayn" ismentioned 
in L.C.C., p. 40. Painmain is appa- 
rently the same asManchet bread (see 
Payn purdeuz on p. 83), and its full 
form seems Pain Manchet or Pain 
de Manchet. Manchet is possibly 
"Manchet," or "Manchot," and refers 
to the short curtailed character of 
Roll bread. Note the round sops 
of the " paynemajamys" in Recipe 
xxix, on p. 11. The gradual curtail- 
ing of the word is shewn on conii^a- 
rison of " Manged brede," at p. 83, 
and "Mengyd Flowre" on p. 43, 
with "Meyned flour" and " Maynch 
brede" in the Douce MS. O.F. Pain 
demaine, Latin "Panem dominicum," 
is generally given as derivation. 

Peacock, see Pecok. 

Pear, see Pere. 

Pecej, sb., Pccys, 6, 7, 8, 12. Pieces. 

Pecher, Pechir, sb., 39. Pitcher. 

Pecok rested, 79, see Douce MS., No. 
128 ; Pokokkys, 58. 

Peinns, 67, Peions rosted, 68, Sauce for 
peiou«s, 109 ; Pyionys, 58, Pigeons. 
For " Pegions steived," see Napier, 
p. 107, F. of C, No. 48, L.C.C., p. 14. 



Pele, sb.,b\; Pelys, 50. Paker's Peel. 

Pele, vb.t., 8, Pyle, 8; Pylle, 12, 26. 
Peel ; skin. 

Peletre, 110, Pellitory. 

Pelettys, Pellettys, sb., 31, 34, 39. 
Pellets. 

Peny brede, 7, 18, 97, 106, Penny's 
breadth. In first example read 
"they" ( = the) "peny brede." 

Pepir, sb., 10, 15, 55 ; Pepyr, 8, 10; 
Perpir, 40 ; Piper, 109. Pepper. 

Pepyn, sb., 32. Apparently Pr. 
Pepin, the seed of fruit, CoTGR. : it 
seems a,pplied to the germinating 
part of the pease. 

Perase, 22, Fryid Gyngerc perase, 
? Ginger parings, or " pares." 

Perceli, sb., 6 ; Percely, 5, 7, 10, 15, 
Percile, 21. Fr. Persil, Parsley. See 
Parcelly. 

Perche boiled, 102, see Douce MS., 
No. 135, Napier, p. 75 ; Perchys, 
21, 26. Perch. 

Pere Wardones, Peer Wardens, 88, 
Pere Wardonys, 12, "Warden Pears, 
see Wardons ; Peris in Syrippe, 87, 
58, 59 ; P. en composte, 12, 87, see 
Douce MS., No. 57, and F. of C. 
has " Peeves in confyt," No. 132 ; 
Perys, 24, 25, 37, 54. Pear. 

Pereye, sb., 32 ; Perre (Pease), 83, 
see Douce MS., No. 9, Blaunche 
Perreye (Pease), 32, see Warner, 
p. 85, "■Perre" (Pease), F. of C., 
No. 70, '•'•Perrey of Peson," Warner, 
p. 66, ''Porre 'of Peson," L.C.C., 
p. 44, " Porry of lohite Pese " ; 
Blawnche Perry e (Leeks), 14, 
Blanche porrey (Leeks), 90, see 
Douce MS., No. 84, L.C.C., p. 44, 
*■'• Blaunchyd porray," Warner, pp. 
51, 85, (Leeks). There is also 
a " Porrey Chapeleyn " in Warner, 
p. 49, made up of Onions, Olive oil, 
and Almond milk, boiled together. 
See DucANGE, "Porrecta, Jusculum 
ex porisconfectum,"also/'o;Trtto. It 
would almost appear as if Piiree 
{ — Purata, strained,) and Porree 
{ = Po7-rata) got confused. 

Pesone, Longe Wortes de, 89, Lange 
wortes de Pesoun, 5, see Douce 
MS., No. 2 ; Pesyn,s6., 5, 32,Whyte 



140 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOKS. 



P. in Grauey, 33 ; Peys de almayne, 

114. Pease. 
Pestel, sh., 6. Pestle. 
Pestelle, Siryppe pur vn, 40, see 

Napier, p. 46, '■'■ Festelles of pork 
endored." Pestel is still vised for a 
leg of pork. 

Pesyn, Mortrewes of, 90, see Douce 
MS., No. 82 ; Fr. poisson, fish. 

Petelade, see Pastelade. 

Pety Pemauntes, 51, 74 (2 recipes), 
Pety Pernollys, 50. These seem to 
be the same dishes, with different 
spelling, but representing possibly 
the same word ; as the recipe on 
page 50 is the same as that on page 
74. The dish is identified with Payn 
Puff" in F. of C, No. 196, and is 
glossed " Pety panel a marchpayne ", 
in Leland's Collecta^iea, VI., page 6 ; 
this would give a Mnt of the origin 
of the word, which is equivalent to 
the Italian " Panello, any little loaf, 
bun, roul, or manchet," Florio; the 
Puffs being like little loaves, or buns. 
I'here is also the Italian Panella, 
with same signification. See F. of C, 
Nos. 195, 196, '■^ Pety Pernaunt" 
Douce MS., Nos. 8 and 58. The 
dish is spelt " Pety penieux," in the 
Banquets on pages 58,59 of this book. 

Peuard, Brawne in, 71, Braun en 
Peuerade, 11, 12, the same dish : 
see Douce MS., No. 47, F. of C, 
No. 135, Warner, p. 79, '■'■Boor hi 
peverarde, or Boor in egredo^ice" 
Recipes for the Sauce are given in 
F. of C, No. 135, "-Pevorat for Veel 
and Venyson" and in Warner, p. 
64, "Pevrate sauce." It is the French 
Poivrade, sauce made with pepper : 
see Piper. 

Pewter dysshe, 26, 42. 

Peynregusoii, 112. 

Peys de almayne, 114, Pease and 
almond milk. 

Pheasant, see Fesaunt. 

Pie, see Crustade. 

Pies of Parys, 75, Pyej de parej, 53, 
see Douce MS., No. 72, Napier, p. 
58, Paris Pies ; Gretepyes, 76. See 
Crustade. 

Pigeon, see Peions. 

Pigge or chikefi in Sauge, 72, see 



Warner, p. 56, " Pygges in sauge"; 
Pigge Farced, 82, Pygge y-farsyd, 
40, see Douce MS., No. 37. Aj^parently 
sucking i>igs. 

Pike en galentsme, 101 (2 Recipes), 
see Napier, p. 79, Douce MS., No. 
75, No. 151 ; Pike boyled, 101, 
see Douce MS., No. 131 ; Pike in 
brass, 101, see Douce MS., No. 73, 
Napier, p. 34, "Pyk in Braisselle,^' 
p. 79, "Ax- in Brasy," Warner, 
p. 86, "Pik or tenche in Brasyle " ; 
there is also '■'■ Pyk in sauce" in 
Napier, p. 96. 

Pikkyll pour le Mallard, 77, see Douce 
MS., No. 19, Pickle : L.C.C., p. 31, 
has "■Pyhtlle,'" (Capons). 

Piper for feel and for venysoun, 110, 
see F. of C, No. 135. Poivrade, 
Pepper Sauce. See Peuard. 

Pipes, sh., 70 ; Pypis, 8. Bronchial 
tubes : ? lungs, generally. 

Plais, sh., 103, Plaise boiled, 103, see 
Douce MS., No. 140 ; Plays, 26, 103, 
105 ; Playse, 103. Plaice. 

Plante, vh.t., 25, 27; Plonte, 98. 
Plant. 

Platere, sh., 17, 27, 41, 114. Platter. 

Platte, adj., 44. 

Plie, vh.t., 113. Ply; fold. 

Ploni, vh.t., 76. Plump, into a pot. 

Plouer, 79, Plouer rost, 117, see 
Napier, p. 64. 

Pocerounce, 3 ; Pokerounce, 41. 

Poche, Eyron en, 24. Poached eggs ; 
see Eggys. 

Poddyng, 41, see Puddyng. 

Poke, 114. 8ee Poiiche. 

Pokokkys, 58. Peacocks. 

Polettys, 38. Pullets. 

Pome dorreng, 58, see Warner, p. 58, 
" Pondorroge " : the " orroge " is ap- 
parently orange, the Pommes being 
coloured yellow. Pome dorres, 38, 
Pomez endoryd, 63, see Warner, p. 
89, "-Pomes Dorre," II. No. 42, 
" Pomme dorry" F. of C, No. 174, 
'■'■ Ponime dorryes," L.C.C., p. 37, 
" Fowme dorrysP So called from the 
Pommes, or Rissoles, being endored, 
or glazed, with yolk of egg. Pomes- 
moille, 113, see Warner, p. 46, 
" Pommys movies" i.e. " Pommes 



GLOSSARY AND INDEX. 



141 



. molles," or crashed apples. Pom- 
mes, 1 ; Poumes, 14 ; Pomys, 62 ; 
Powmys, 15 ; see Napier, p. 120. 
Pompe, 31 ; Pompys, 34 ; Pumpes, 
31. All the above are variations of the 
French pomme, applied to globular 
lumps of minced meat : compare 
"Pome di sdegno, a kind of made 
dish, that Cooks make round as 
apples." — Florio. In A. the "pom- 
pys," on page 31, are called "pepyngis," 
or pippins. 
Pome-garnade, sh., 28 ; Pome-garned, 
30 ; Pome-gamej, 38, applied here 
to Rissoles, in the same way as the 
Pommes above. Pomegranate. 
Pomppe, si., 24, Pulp : A. reads 

here " Pappe." 
Pond, sh., 114. Pound. 
Poper, 63. 

Porcelle farce enforce, 58, ? Sucking 
Pig stuffed and made rich : Por- 
cellys, 58. 
Porcyon, «5., 9, 10, 18, 25; PorcyouM, 

11, 18. Portion. 
Pore, vh.t., 16, 26. Pour. 
Porke, 6, 14, 19, etc. 
Porpeys, Sturgeon pour, 105, see 
Napier, p. 53, '■'■ Porpas, sturgion or 
turbut,^' (baked) ; Firmenty with, p. 
105, Furmenty with purpaysse, 17, 
see Douce MS., No. 171, F. of C, 
No. 69, and No. 116, Napier, p. 86, 
Warxer, p. 66 ; Puddyng of p., 42 ; 
F. of C, No. 108, has " Parpens in 
broth." Porpoise. 
Porpoise, see Porpeys. 
Porrey, Blanche, 90, see Pereye. 
Poshote, sh., 15, 36; Poshotte, 36. 

Posset. 
Possenet, «5., 23, 72. Posnet ; small 
pot. " A little brasse pot or posnet, 
Een koper pothen ofte ketelken." — 
1660, Hexham. 
Potage, 33, 8, 10, 11, 16 ; P. on a 
fysshday, 15, 29 ; P. colde, 30 ; P. 
of Ptoysons, 30 ; P. de egges, 94, 
called in Douce MS., No. 100, ''Pocched 
egges"; P. of ris, 114; Erode canelle 
Potage, i.e., Whole Cinnamon Soup, 
59 ; Compost Potage, p. 59 ; Warner, 
p. 51, has " Potage de frumenty," and 
" Potage of rys," at p. 46. 



Poteli, sh., 94 ; Potelle, 22 ; Pottel, 

73. Pottle ; two quarts. 
Poterous, 93, Petrous, 53 ; see F."of 
C, 177, "Potews," which is probably 
its right form, like ]\Iortrews, the 
termination representing the liquid 
I : see Ducange, Potellus, 0. Fr. 
Potel. The dish was made in pots, 
which were afterwards broken, but 
in this volume coffins of paste are 
used. Compare "Sachus" in F. of 
C, No. 178, made in bags (0. Fr. 
sachel), and see Bourreys. 

Pouche, «i., 101, 102; Powche, 103; 
Pouuche, 101 ; Poke, 114. Poche, 
stomach of fish. 

Pouder, Kecipe Cj., p. 24, powdered 
spice generally ; Poudre, 113, Poudur, 
112, ? pepper; Pouder Canelle, 20, 
38, Poudre canel, 109 ; Powder Canel, 
11, P. of Canelle, 20 ; Pouder of 
Clowes, 97 ; Poudi*e of clowes, 109 ; 
Pouder of gyngere, 7, 19, Poudre of 
gyngere, 108, Poudre ginger, 109, 
PouJ^er Gyngere, 19, Powder Gyngere, 
8, 9, 10, of Gyngere, 20 ; Poudre 
piper, 109, Powder Pepyr, 10, 11, 14 ; 
Pouudre, 116; Clowys powj'er, 14; 
Pouder Marchaunt, Pulverized spices, 
25. 

Powajes, 27 : ? meaning. A. reads 
" powares." 

Powder, see Pouder. 

Powderd, adj., 14; Poudrid, 91. 
Powdered ; salted. 

Powdryng of beef, Salting of beef, 
69 ; this probably ought to read, 
"a nijt powdryng of beef," with no 
comma there. 

Pownche, sh., 7. Paunch. 

Powre, vh.t., 87. Pour. 

Poynant, adj., 33 ; Poynaunt, 6 ; 
P. & dowcet, 7, 33. Poignant ; 
piquant with vinegar. 

Poynte with Venegre, 29. Point, 
make acid : Fr. poindre. 

Prenade, 91, in Douce MS., No. 105, 
" Brewes " : possibly this ought to 
read " Prez<ade," and is a perversion. 

Prik, sh., 82. Prick ; pin, skewer. 

Prik, vh.t., 82, skewer; Prycke, 36, 
Prick ; stick. 



142 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOKS. 



Primrose, see Prymerose. 

Prune J, 51, 52. Prunes. 

Piymerose, 25, 29, see Napiek, p. 56, 
'•'Pryraerolle." Primrose. 

Puddyng of Purpaysse, 42 ; Poddjmg 
of Capoun necke, 41 ; Puddyng de 
Swan necke, 61. 

Pul, vh.t., P. dry, 79, PuH dry, 78, 
79, Pluck clean ; Pulle, 9. 

PuJcynges farce), 58, Pulsona farce, 61, 
(misprinted Pulsous), Pr. Poussin ; 
chicken. 

Pullayii, 67, Pullets. 

Pured buttur, 103, Clarified butter. 

Pygge y-farysd, 40 ; Pygge in sage, 
59, 63, see Warner, p. 56 ; Pyggys, 
25. 

Pyk,"sJ., 106 ; Pyke, 16 ; Pykys, 26, 
30. Pike (the fish), see Pike. 

Pyke, vb.t., 10. Pick: see Pike. 

Pyle, vh.t., 8. Peel. 

Pylt, vh.t., 21. Put. 

Pyn, sh., 7; Pynne, 11. Pin. 

Pynade, 34, see Warner, p. 49, 
''Pynade," F. of C, No. 51, "i>n- 
nonade." Pyuenade in paste, 60, 
possibly ought also to be Pyuenade. 
The dish is named from the Pines, 
or "Pynotys" in it: the other recipes 
read "pynes." 

Pynes, sh., 95, 97 ; Pynej, 24, Pynej 
and clowys, 53 ; Pynys, 15, 16, 22, 
75, 91, 94 ; in this last case the Douce 
MS. reads " pepyr pynes," or whole 
pepper, but all the examples may 
not mean pepper, as the seeds of fir 
pines seem to have been used. 

Pynotys, 34 : ? Pine nuts or cones. 

Pypis, see Pipes. 
Pystelade, see Pasielade. 



Quantite, sh., 5, 6. Quantity. 
Quart, sh., 35; Quarte, 101. 
Quart<;r, sh., 106 ; Quarteren of 

ponder caneH, 101. Quart. 
Quarter, sh., Fore q., 8 ; Quarterys, 

6, 31, 49. 
Quarter, vb.t., 18. Cut in quarters. 
Quayle rested, 79, see Douce MS., 

Ko. 115, Napier, p. 61. 



Quayle, vi.int., 27. Curdle. Fr. 

cailler. 
Quibibes, sh., 6, 37, 113; Quybibes, 

19, 20, 21 ; Quybibej, 24, 46 ; Quy- 

bibys, 15 ; Quybybis, 13. Cubebs. 
Quince, see Quynces. 
Quyk, rtr//'., 99. Quick; alive. 
Quynade, 27, see " Connat,^'' in F. of 

C, No. 18. So called from being 

made of Quinces : compare Applade. 
Quynces, 27, 51 ; Q. or Wardones in 

paast, 97, 51, Quyncis, 51 ; Quyncys 

in comfyte, 58, i.e., preserved Quinces ; 

Charde-quynce, 12, 13 ; Chared 

coneys, or chardwardon, 106 ; 

Quynes bakyn, 69. 
Quyschons, 40 : compare Cushion of 

Bacon. 
Quystis scune, 8, see Napier, p. 44, 

" Quystis " : ? " stuue," not scune. 

Cushats, wood-pigeons : A.S. cusceote. 



Rabbit, see next, and Conyng. 

Rabette rosted, 81, see Douce MS., 
No. 117, Napier, p. 64. 

Raisins, see Rasonys. 

Rales, 69. Rails ; Landrails. 

Ransched, pp., 39. Rinsed. 

Rape, 113, Rapeye, 30, 48, (Fish), see 
Douce MS., No. 164, " Rapes," 'Sa- 
PIER, p. 118, " Eape of Fisshe" ; 
Rapes, 95, Rapeye, 16, (two Recipes), 
28, 43 (Fruit), see F. of C, No. 83, 
L.C.C., p. 16, Napier, p. 109, ''Rape," 
Warner, p. 49, "Rapee," and II. 
No. 49, " Bapy " ; Rapeye of 
Fleysshe, 25, see Warner, p. 45. 

Rasinges, Rasons, 88. Shavings, 
parings. 

Rasonys, sb., 23 ; Raysonys, 30, 52, 
of Coraunce, 14 ; Eaysounys, 51 ; 
Eeysons of coraunce, 75 ; Potage of 
Roysons, 30, Roysons of Corauns, 
16 ; Roysouns Coraunce, 22 ; Roy- 
sonys, 16, 22, 28, of coraunce, 13, 31, 
of Corauns, 15, 29 ; Currants. Crete 
Reysons, 97, G. Reysynges, 75, Gret 
Roysonys, 47, Raisins, in modem 
usage. 

Rastons, 52, 98, see Douce MS., 
No. 63, " Rastomirs." " Raston : A 
fashion of round, and high Tart, 



GLOSSARY AND INDEX. 



143 



made of butter, egges, and cheese." 
A. spells this " Eascons," and glosses 
it as " rascoris," and the word might 
be " Eastoiiiirs," above. 
Ray boiled 103, see Douce MS., No. 

145, ''Ri/gh huille" 
Raynollef, 42 ; Raynollys, 3 ; see 
Warner, p. 81, " Raynecles." '■^Rai/- 
molles de blanc de chapon. The 
brawne of a Capon, Raisins of the 
Sunne, and maiTow shred all to- 
gether, then made into little cakes or 
leaues, and fryed with seame or Hogs 
sewet, and serued vp with sugar 
strewed on them." — Cotgr. 
Red Wyne, 10, 26; E. Rosys, 24; 

Eede Rose, 29, R. vyne, 112. 
Eeke, fi.^.,29. Reek; heat over coals. 
Remenaimt, sh., 12. Remnant. 
Renge, sh., 38. Ring Strainer. 
Renne, vh.inf., 11, 26, 44, Ronne, 

pp. 44. Run. 
Renneng, adj., 44; Rennyng, 6, 9, 15, 

19; Rennynge,94. Running ; fluid. 
Rennyn, vh.inf., 25. Run. 
Rew, sb., 53. Row. 
Rejge, sh., 11. The Ray: see Ray. 
Ris, sh., 114; Rys, 22, see Napier, 
p. 82, p. 108, L.C.C., p. 16 ; Rys 
mollies, 113, see Warner, p. 46 ; 
Potage of ris, 114, see Warner, p. 
46 ; Rys MoLeyn), 59 ; Warner, pp. 
62, 74, has also " Rys Licmbarde " ; 
Rys, 12, 14 ; Flowrc of rys, 13. 
Risschewes, de frute, 97, Risshewes, 
93 (Fruit), Ryschewys in lente, 43, 
(Fruit and Fish), R. close et Fryej, 
45, R. close, 112, (Fruit), see Douce 
MS., No. 88, F. of C, No. 182 ; Rissh- 
shewes, 98 ; Risshewes de Mary, 
85, Ryschewys of marow, 44, see 
Douce MS., No. 87 ; L.C.G., p. 39, 
Warner, p. 65 (Flesh). Now Ris- 
sole : see Cotg., " Rissolle : A lewes 
eare ; or Mushrome thats fashioned 
likeaDemie-circle, and grows cleaning 
to trees ; also, a small and delicate 
minced Pie, made of that fashion." 
Roche, sh., 20, Breme or Roche boiled, 
102, see Douce MS., No. 138 ; Rochys, 
21. Roach. 
Roddys ende, 52. Rod's end. 
RoUe, Cruste, 46. 



Roppis, sh., 39. Ropes; guts. See 
Holme, II. vii. 132, " Sheeps Belly, 
or Intrals,the puddings called strings, 
or Rope." 

Rose, Rede, 29 ; Red Rosys, 24, 

Roseye, 24. So called from being 
made of Roses ; see Warner, II, 
No. 41, and No. 47, F. of C, No. 52: 
Warner, No. 47, has no roses in it. 

Roste, vh.t., 12, 14, Roste him on a 
gredire, 103. Roast. 

Rosty, vb.int., 15. Roast. 

Rove of the mouthe, 78. Roof. 

Rowys, 114. Roe of fish. 

Ruchet, 60, see Napier, p. 74, 
'''•Gurnard or Rochet.'''' Comp. Fr. 
Rochau. Rock-Fish, and see Florid, 
'•'•Roccate, the Cook-fish, or Sea- 
thrush, " 

Ruschewys, 45, see Risschewes. 

Ryal, adj., 40 ; Ryalle, 21, 22 ; 
Ryaly, 2, Ryally, 17. Royal : Roy- 
ally. The Cookeries also say " fit 
for a lord " ; in same sense. 

Rybbys, sh., 6, 8, 10, 26. Ribs. 

Ryght, adv., 5; Ryth wyl, 20, 
Rythte smal, 37 ; Ryjt fatte, 35, 
Ryjth smal, 46 ; Ryjth, 6, 8. 

Rynsche, vh.t., 24, Rinse; splash, 

Ryjt, see Ryght. 



Saake, Bruette, 27, Sake, 2 ; see 
Warner, p. 78, '■^Browet seeke." 

Sad or flatte, 92. Douce MS., and. 

Saf, vh.t., 39. Save. 

Saferon, sh., 70 ; Saferouil, 43 ; 
Safron, 5, 9 ; Safrou?i, 6, 10, 13, 15, 
26 ; Sapheron, 70. Safiron. 

Saffron, see Saferon. 

Safroun,t'5.i5., 32, 49. Saffron. 

Salmon fressli boiled, 102, see Douce 
MS., No. 132 ; Samofi roste in 
Sauce, 102, see Douce MS., No. 169, 
Napier, p. 97 : Salmond, 102 ; 
Samond, 100 ; Samoun, 16. 

Salome, Capoun in, 33 ; Salomene, 21 ; 
Soupes of Salomere, 35. 

Salt, vh.t., 32, 41. 

Samaca, 59, Frutoure Samata, 62 ; 
see Napier, p. 45, '■^ Samartard." 



144 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOKS. 



The first example should be Samata. 
The Fritter is made of Flour, Curds, 
Eggs, Cream, and Grease, aud is 
served with sugar on it. 

Sardeyne^, 24. 

Sareson, Bruette, 19 ; Saug saraser, 
113, Sauke Sarsoun, 30. Fr. Sarra- 
siiie ; Saracen. 

Sauces ; Sauce alepeuere, 108, Sauce 
oylepeuer, 77, see Napier, p. 77, 
">S. a//>er,"DouceMS.,No. 94,"*S'«M?<ce 
alpeuere " ; Sauce camelyne, 109, 
Sauce gamelyne, 77, see Douce MS., 
No. 92, '' Sauuce camely7i" Napier, 
p. 48, '■'■Sauce c. for quaylle" F. of 
C, No. 144, '■'■ Smise camelyne" 
L.C.C., p. 30 ; Sauce Galentyne, 77, 

108, see Douce MS., No. 98, Napier, 
p. 77, F. of C, No. 138, L.C.C., p. 30, 
Warner, p. 64 ; Sauce gauncile, 
110, Sauce sermstele, 77, (called 
" S. gav.ncell" in Douce MS., No. 93), 
see L.C.C., p. 29, Warner, p. 65, 
" Gaunsell for gese " (see Gauncely) ; 
Sauce gynger, 77, Sauce gingyuer, 

109, see Douce MS., No. 96, 
Napier, p. 77, F. of C, No. 139, 
Warner, p. 64, L.C.C., p. 52 ; 
Sauce for a gos, 109 ; Sauce newe 
for malardis, 110, see L.C.C., p. 27, 
and Black sauce, below ; Sauce for 
peiouHS, 109 ; Sauce percely, 110 ; 
Sauce rous, 109, Fr. jRo2(sse, 
ruddy ; Saug saraser, 113 ; Sauke 
Sarsoun, 30, see F. of C, No. 84, 
" Sawse Sarzyne" or Saracen ; Sauce 
sermstele, see S. gauncile ; Sauce 
Sorell, 77, Surelle, 110, Fr. Surelle, 
Sorrel ; Sauce for shulder of moton, 
110 ; Sauce for stokefysshe (two 
Recipes), 109 ; Sauce Verte, 77, 

110, Green Sauce, see Douce MS., 
No. 95, Napier, p. 77, F. of C, No. 
140, Warner, p. 64; Black sauce 
for Capo^ms y-rostyde, 110, see 
F. of C, No. 137, AVarner, p. 64, 
on which page is "Black Sauce for 
Mallai'd" (for which also see F. of C, 
No. 141); White sauce for capons 
y-sode, 110, see F. of C, No. 136, 
L.C.C., p. 28, Warner, p. 64 : F. of 
C. No. 30, has also ^'■Saivse madame." 
See Pikkyl and Ptper, in Glossary. 

Sauereye, sb., 18. Savory. 



Sauge, 28, Sauoge, 41, compare 

''Sawgeat," in F._ of C, No. 161 ; 

Pigge or chikefl in Sauge, 72 ; 

Sawge, 2, 6, 8, 10, 17, 20,. 28. The 

herb Sage. 
Sauke Sarsoun, 30, see Sauces. 
Saimderys, si., 12, 15, 16, 21 ; Sawn- 

derys, 8, 12, 13. Saunders. 
Saused, pp., 72. Soused; salted. 
Sawcere, sb., 22, 42. Saucer. 
Sayn, vb.int., 33. Say. 
Scalde, vb.t., S. with hey or strawe, 

99, 100 ; Skalde, 18, 32. Scald. 
Schake out, 109, Shake out. 
Schale, vb.t., 13. Shell. 
Schap, sb., 53. Shape. 
Scharpe, adj., 38. Sharp. 
Schene, vb.t., 23. Skin; shell: A. 

reads Skene. 
Schcpe, sb., 40. Sheep. 
Schere, tZ».!;., 40 ; Shere, 11. Shear; 

slice. 
Schevres, sb., 40. Shivers ; thin 

strips. 
Schoche, vb.t., 101 ; Skoche, 101. 

Scotch ; notch. 
Schoppe, vb.t., 9. Chop. 
Schorge, vb.int., 42. Scorch. 
Schort & ]7ikke, 52. 
Schouyl, sb., 53. Shovel. 
Schrede, vb.t., 8, 10, 29; Screde, 30. 

Shred. 
Schrympe, sb., 42, Shrimp ; see 

Shrympes. 
Schul, vb., 30, Shall; Schuld, 19, 

Should ; Schuldyst, 45, Shouldest. 
Schulle, sb., 24, 42 ; Schullys, 23. 

Shell. A. reads " schyllys." 
Sculle, sb., 80 ; SkoH, 79. Scull. 
Sefe, sb., 20 ; Seve, 32 ; Her syue, 

Hair sieve, 113. 
Self, adj., 19, 23; Seine, 32; Sylf, 

14. Self ; same : compare Selfsame. 
Senglere, Teste de, enarme), 57, Boars 

head and tusks : Blanke singuler 

leche, 69. Fr. Sanglier, Wild boar. 
Serge, vb.t., 20, Sift: s^elt Sarge in A. 
Serue forth (to table), 6, 10, etc. ; 

Seruyst in, 6. 
S^ruyce, sb., 34. Service. 



GLOSSARY AND INDEX. 



145 



Sesyn, vh.t., 19 ; S. vp, 10, 12. 
Season. 

Sethe, vh.t., 6, 12; Sc>in, pp., 32; 
Sith, 90 : Seth, vh.int, 99. Seethe. 
Sethe iu Eecipe vj, p. 6, is sette 
in A. 

Sew, sh., 18; Colouryd S. -without 
fyre, 20, see Napier, p. 38; Sew 
trappe, 54, so called from the pans 
or Trapes in which it is made. These 
are solids. Sew lumbarde, 58. Sewe, 
9, 17, 20, 99. Broth. Mayhew & 
Skeat derive Sew from A.S. seaw, 
bnt it is suspiciously like the French 
Ciud, or Sine, see Cotgr. ; compare 
"Harus in a sewe," L.C.C., p. 21, 
Hares or Gonynges in seue, Warner, 
p. 78, where it represents Ciu6. At 
the same time Mr. Mayhew does not 
think it possible. Cine, however, is 
used for a liquid without onions, 
upon page 49 : see Errata. 

Scwet, s^., 41. Suet: see Suet. 

Shrympes, 103. Shrimps. 

Sirip, si., 12, 40 ; Sirippe, 15 ; 
Siryppe p«r un pestelle, 40 ; Syrip, 
11 ; Syi-ippe, 3, 15, 21, Peris in 
syrippe, 87 ; Wardonys in syryp, 
7 ; Syryppe, 13, 21. Syrup. 

Sith, vh.t., 90. Seethe. 

Sitting to, 107. Sticking. 

Skalde, vh.t., 18, 32; Skaldyd, 24; 
Skladdyd, 25. Scald : see Scaldo. 
On p. 32, ?read "skalde he»i" [wit/i 
hey]. 

Skaldyng hote, 17. 

Skeme, vh.t., 7. Skim. 

Sket, sh., 102. Scotch: Douce MS. 
has sJcoch. 

Skilfully thik, 101, Skylfully \\kke, 
8, Eeasonably, nicely thick. 

Skluce, sh., 25. Viscous compound. 

SkoH, sh., 79. Skull. 

Skore, vh.t., 25 ; Skoure, 45. Scour. 

Skrape, vh.t., 18. Scrape. 

Skym, vh.t., 22. Skim : see Skeme. 

Skymer, sh., 44; Skymoure, 17, 54. 
Skimmer. 

Skyn, sh., 11 ; Skynne, 26; Skynnys, 
26. Skin. 



Slake, adj., 21 {Flake is printed 
here). Slack ; lukewarm : warm 
in A. 

Sle, vh.t., 78, 79. Slay. 

Slepyr, adj., 23. Slippery; greasy. 
A. reads " sliper." 

Smal, adj., 10; Smaller or gretter, 15. 

Smoth, adj., 77. Smooth. 

Smyte, vh.t., 6, 13. Smite; chop. 

Snyte, 80 ; Snyte rest, 117 ; see 
Douce MS., No. 120, L.C.C., p. 35, 
" ^Yodcok, sny)t, andcurlue,'' Napier, 
p. 65, '^Snyt rost " ; Snytys, 58. 

Sode, adj., 42. Sodden. 

Soft, adv., 22, Softe, 17, Softly; 
SofFter and sofFtere, 17. 

Soke, vh.t., S. out, 25. Soak out ; 
let soak out. 

Sokingly, adv., boile s., 72. Soak- 
ingly ; thoroughly : still used thus. 

Sole, boiled, rost, or fryed, 103, see 
Douce MS._, No. 141 ; Napier, p. 71, 
has "Sole in brase." 

Soperys, sh., 46, 55. Suppers. 

Soppes Dorre, 90, Soupes dorrees, 
114, Soupes dorye, 11, S. dorroy, 
11, see Douce MS., No. 51, F. of C, 
No. 82, Warner, p. 46, L.C.C., p. 
14, Napier, p. 107 ; Lyode Soppes, 
11 ; S. Jamberlayne, 11, Soppes 
pour Chamberleyne, 90, see Douce 
MS., No. 52, " Soupes Chamberlain" ; 
Oyle Soppys, 12, 96, see Douce MS., 
No. 1 58 ; Soupes of Salomere, 35 ; 
see also Napier, p. 51, and F. of C, 
No. 129, "Soupes in galentyne'''' \ 
Soppis, 1, 52. Cotgr. : " Soupe: A 
sop, or peece of bread in broth : also 
pottage, or broth (wherein there is 
store of sops, or sippets)." Soup is 
still served thus in France. 

Sorcell rosted 79, see Douce MS. , No. 
118, '■^ Sarcelle rost,'' Napier, p. 64 ; 
Teal. 

Sore Sengle, 25. This looks like 
"Single Sore," compare " Jiissell 
sengle,'' in Napier, p. 26 : see, how- 
ever, Cotgr., " Soringue : Eele sauce 
made of fried Onions, and toas-bread 
steeped in Pease broth, then strayned 
with wine, vinegar. Cinnamon, Ginger, 
and other spices, all put into a pot 



10 



146 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOKS. 



with the Eeles cut into peeces, and 
(after a Httle seasoning with saffron 
and salt) throughly boy led." . Elys 
in Sorre, 89, see Douce MS., No. 25. 
The Fr. sore means reeked or made 
red, as the saft'ron would do. Com- 
pare Blandesore. 

Sotelte, si., 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 
63, 67, 68, 69. Subtlety, or device 
to deck the Table : see Forewords. 

Sothe, pp., 37, 46; So>in, 6, 46, 
Sothyn, 7, 9, II. Sod; sodden. 

Soundes, sh., 96 ; Soundys, 26. Cod 
Sounds, or swimming bladders. 

Soups, see Soppes. 

Sowsyd, adj., 12. Soused; pickled. 

Spaulde de Motoun, 59, Spawdys de 
Motoun, 63. Spaud ; shoulder. 

Spaune, sJ., 14, Spawne, 90. Spawn 

Spete, sh., 8, 15, 38, Spate of haselle 
39. Spit. 

Spete, vh.t., 38 ; ben spetid, 38. Spit 
put on spit. 

Spicere, sb., 113; Spicme, 113 
Spicerye, 30 ; Spycery, 19, 28, 35. 

Splat, adj., 101. Split. 

Splat, vh.t., 105; Splatte, 104. Split. 

Splentes, sh., 73. Splints. 

Spone, sh., 41. Spoon. 

Sprynge, vh.t., 31. Springe; sprinkle. 

Spycis, 28. Spices. 

Spyneye, 20, see Waenek, II. jS^o. 46, 
F. of C, No. 57 : so named 
from O.Fr. Espine, Hawthorn. See 
IIaw\orn. 

Stampe, vh.t.,&, 1, 16,38,77. Stamp ; 
grind. 

Stekys of venson) or bef, 40. 

Stept, 77, Steeped. 

Ster, vh.t., 46; Stere, 8, 9, 14, 26; 
Sture, 26 ; Styre, 23. Stir. A. 
reads "styue" (stew), in Recipe xiiij, 
l>age 8. 

Stipe, 1 6 : see readings at end of 
Forewords. 

Stockfish, see next. 

StokfissR, 89, S. in sauce, 100, see 
Douce MS., No. 31 ; Stokfysshe, 10 ; 
Stokkefysshe, 26. Stockfish. See 
CoTGR. : '■'■Merlus, ou Meriuz : A 
Mellwell, or Keeling, a kind of small 
Cod, whereof stockfish is made." 



Modern French Merhiehe, Haddock. 
Stockfish seems to have been made 
of all sorts of Cod, and even of 
Porpoise. 
Stonde, i-^>.«?«i{., 88, 109. Stand; be 

stift: 

Stonding, adj., 95 ; Stoudyng, 16, 

95 ; Stondynge, 16, 109. Standing ; 

stiff". 
Storgeoun, sh., 13 ; Storieoun, 57 ; 

Storion in brothe, 13 ; see Shirgeon. 
Straw, vh.t., 23; S. on, 15 ; Straws 

Canel a-boue, 16. Strew. 
Strawberye, 29 ; Strawberys, 29 ; 

Stawberye, 2 ; Streberies, 75. 
Strayne, vh.t., 6, 8, 11. Strain 

through strainer. 
Straynour, sh., 6, 11 ; Straynoure, 

6, 10, 11, 41 ; Straynourys ende, 44 ; 
Strayno'nT, 5, 6 ; Straynowre, 5, 10 ; 
Strainwoure, 16. Strainex*. 

Strek, vh.t., 95. Strike. 

Strype, vh.t., 27. Strip. 

Stew, see Sttved. 

Stuff, Stuffe, «(//■., 71. Stiff. 

Stuffe, vh.t., 32, 40, 41 ; Stuffyst, 
40. Stuff" with forcemeat. 

Stuffur, sh., 76. Stuff for stuffing. 

Sture, see Stere. 

Sturgeon boiled, 104, see Warner, p. 
47, Napier, p. 71 ; Sturgeon buille 
ou turbutt, 117 ; Storion in brothe, 
13, Sturgeon in broth, 104, see 
Douce MS., No. 80 ; Sturgeon pour 
porpeys, 105, see Douce MS., No. 
181, '■'■Sturgeon ou purpays ou, turhut 
furnie)," Napier, p. 53, '■'■ Porpas, 
sturgion, or turlmt" ; Storioun leche, 
37. 

Sturmye, 26. 

Stwed Beef, 72, see Douce MS., No. 
3 ; Stwed Mutton, 72 ; Capons 
Stwed, 72 ; Partrich stwed, 78, 
Pertrich stewyde, 9 ; Smale Birdys 
y-stwyde, 9. Stewed. 

Styke, vh.t., 31. Stick. 

Styre, see Stere. 

Sucking Pig, see Porcelle. 

Suet, sh., 76; Svette, 115; Swet, 
40; Swette, 40 ; Sewet, 41. 

Sugre, sh., 11, Whyte s., 7, Blake s., 

7, Whyte o^er blake, 51 ; S. of AU- 



GLOSSARY AMI) INDEX. 



147 



saiinder, 39, Alysaundre, 50, trova 
Alexandria ; S. of Siprys, 16, Sugar 
of Cii>ris, 95, from Cyprus ; Sugre in 
coiifyte, 32, ? comfits, A. " Sugre of 
confitens " ; Sugre water, 7 ; Sugo?<r 
water, 85, Sugur water, 91 ; Sugur, 
85, White s. or blak, 73. Murray's 
Diet, gives Black Sugar as Liquorice, 
but ? unrefined sugar. 

Suradele, adv., 21, 49. Somedeal ; 
somewhat. 

Suththe, adv., 112, 113. Afterward. 

Swan rested, 78, see Douce MS., No. 
106, " Cignet roste.'" 

Sware, adj., 36, Square : see also 
L.C.C., p. 45. 

Swenge, vh.t., 40, 55. Swing; 
mix. 

Swerdo, si., 6, 14. Sward; rind. 

Sweteblanche, 112. 

Swyne, sh., 8, 70; Swynys grace, 
41. Swine ; pig. 

Swythe, adv., 39. Quickly. 

Syfte, vh.t., 38. Sift. 

Sylf, see Self. 

Synamouu), sh., 34. Cinnamon. 

Synewes, sh., 53 ; Syneys, 37 ; jynes, 
37. Sinews. 

Syngnettys, 57. Cignets. 

Syrip, sh., 11 ; Syrippe, 15, 21 ; 
"Wardonys in syryp, 7. See Sirip. 

Syrup, see Sirip, Syrip. 

Syue, sh., 113. Sieve. 

Syjth, sh., 32. Sight ; quantity. 



Take, pp., 52. 

Talbottys, 19. See Wabner, TI., 

No. 9, " Haris in tcdbotat/s,'^ F. of C, 

No. 23, "Hares in talbotes.'''' 
Talow, sh., 39; Talour, 39. Tallow; 

fat. 
Tannye, 26. Compare Fr. '■'■ Tanne, 

Tawnie." — Cotgr. The dish is of 

that coloiu". 
Tansey, 86, Tansye, 45, see Douce 

MS., No. 176, L.C.C., p. 50, "■Tansy 

cake.''^ So called from the Tansy 

in it. 
Tart de Fruyte, 98, see Douce MS., 



No. 101 ; Tartes of Frute in lente, 
48 ; Tartus, 75 (Cheese), Tartes de 
chare, 47, 52, Tartus of Flesh, 74, 
see Douce MS., No. 45, " Tartes de 
chare,''' Napier, p. 52, F. of C, No. 
168, " Tartes of Flesh " ; Tartes of 
Fysche, 47, see F. of C, No. 170, 
Warner, p. 48, " Tartys of Fysvh owt 
of Lente" ; Graunt tartez, 58, Grete 
pyes, 76. 

Tauorsay, 114. 

Taylej, 27, Taylys, 2, Taylours, 94, 
Tayloures, 15, Taylowres, 1 ; see 
Douce MS., No. 104. See Cotgr., 
" Taillis : A Hachee ; or made dish of 
Creuises, the flesh of Capons, Chickens, 
or Veale, bread, wine, salt, veriuyce, 
and spices ; also a kind of gellie," as 
the dish is here. 

Taylid Datys, 55. Cut Dates. 

Temper, vh.t., 10, 19, 20; Tempore, 
9, 11 ; Temperyd, 12, 20. Mix. 

Tenche in bruette, 23, ; T. in cyueye, 
23, see F. of C, No. 120, Napier, p. 
80 ; T. in Sawce, 23, see Napier, 
p. 117, L.C.C., p. 25, ''Tenche in 
graue " ; Tenche in brase, 105, see 
Napier, p. 71, Warxer, p. SQ, Douce 
MS., No. 150 ; Another diting of a 
tenche, 105 ; Teuchys, 26, 30. 

Tendure, adj., 105. Tender. 

Tese, vh.t., 10, y^iih a pyn, 21, 43, 
114. Tease ; shred small. 

Tesid, adj., 89 ; Tesyd, 22. Teased; 
shred small. 

Teste de cure, 112. 

pan, adv., 6, 7; Jeanne, 6, 7, 10, 24; 
>enne, 9, 10, 24. Then. 

pe, pron., 6. Thee. 

per-an, 29, Thereon; J^er-yn, 18, 20, 
47, j^er-ynne, 7 ; J^er-on, 6, 11, 20, 29 ; 
>er-to, 6, 18, 29 ; Therue-owt, 36, 
tliroughout ; jjer-vppe, 30, 49, There- 
on ; J;'er-vppe-on, 18, 49, Upon it ; 
})er-wtt/i, 29. 

pes, adj., 34. These. 

They, art.. The, 7 : see IS'ote 3. 

Thikke, vh.int., 91. Thicken. 

pinne, adj., 12; J'ynne, 109. Thin. 

pombe, sh., 21. Thumb. 

porgh, prep., 101 ; \ox\\, 5, 6, 9, 22 ; 



148 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOKS. 



>orwe, 12, 22, 47 ; jjurgh, 108, 109 ; 

]7urwe, 108 ; ]7ur5, 109. Through, 
powsand, adj., 43. This is a curious 

mistake ou the part of the transcriber 

and should be " a dozen " : he took 

the " dd.," as Douce MS. has it, for 

twice five hundred. See "dd." on 

page 67. 
prifti Mylke of Almaundys, 31, 

>rifty M., 56 ; >iyfty, 34. Not too 

strong. 
Thrawe, vl.t., 101. ThroTV. 
pridde, adj., 49; Thrudde, 113; 

>ryd, 49 ; Jrydde, 30, 50. Third. 
Throte-boH, sh., 79, Adam's Apple ; 

top of windpipe, 
pro we jjorw straynour, 8. 
pryis, adv., 11. Thrice, 
pwerte, adv., 31. Thwart; athwart. 
'£o,adv.,e>,\\,22. Too. In Recipe xj, 

p. 7, A. reads "do hem to-gedir," 

and " to " has the same meaning : 

dele note 7. 
To, adj., 7, 14, 21. Two. 
To-geder, adv., 38, 40 ; To-gedere, 

7, 21 ; To-gederys, 5, 13, 38, 55. 

Together. 
Tolle, vh.t., 40. See Toyle. 
Toste, vb.t., 11, 30. Toast. 
Tostes, sh., 12. Toasts. 
Tow, adj., 49. Tough. 
Towres, 46. 
Toyle, vh.t., 16, 24, 54; Tolle, 40. 

Rub : Twille in Douce MS. : see 

Trull. 
To^L'niit, prep., 112. Against; in. 
Trappe, Sew, 54. Compare Trape, 

pan or dish : the Pudding, a kind 

of Yorkshire, is made in two pans. 
Trayne rest, 97, 60 ; see Douce MS., 

No. 157 ; Treyne, 7. Train : so 

called from its length. 
Tre, sh., RoH of tre, i.e. wood, 92. 

See Treen. 
Treen, adj., 13; T. dyssche, 53; 

T. boUe, 16. Wooden ; spelt "Treyi]) " 

in Douce MS. 
Trenchours, Trenchourys, 41. Tren- 
chers ; slices. Fr. Trencheoir, CoTGR. 
Tripe de Mutton, 82, Trype de 

Motoun, 7, see Douce MS., No. 4 ; 

T. of Turbut or of Codelynge, 18, 



T. de Turbut, 106, see Douce MS., 

No. 170. 
Troundej, sh., 42. Round slice; 

compare Trundle, Halliwell. 
Troute, boyled, 102, see Douce MS., 

No. 133, Napier, p. 69; Troutys,20; 

Trowtys, 21. 
TruH, vb.t., 76, 95. Troll, trowl; 

twist : Douce MS. Tidlle. 
Trusse, vh.t., for roasting, 81. 
Txje,vh.t.,^2; Tryid.jyjs., 27. Try; 

pick, pull. Fr. Trier. 
Tryude, pp., 74. This seems to mean 

broken up, or rubbed up in the 

sugar : but Reci[)e xx, page 51, reads 

"y-tryid jolkys," i.e., separated from 

the white. 
Turbot. Turbut, 16, 18; T. boyled, 

105, see Napier, p. 73 ; T. roste 

ensauce, 106, see Douce MS., No. 

168, Napier, p. 96 ; Tripe of Turbut, 

see Tripe. 
Twyis, adv., 11. Twice. 
Tylle, adv., 12. Till. 
Tyne, sh., 49, 50 ; Tynez of batter, 

49. Compare Tine of a fork ; spike. 



Vanne, vh.t., 70. Fan. 

Veal, see Vele. 

Vele, kede, or henne in Bokenade, 13, 
Autre Vele en bokenade, 13, see F. 
of C, No. 118 ; Vele rested, 81, see 
Douce MS., No. 123 ; Piper for feel 
and for venysoun, 110. 

Venegre, sh., 7, 10 ; Vynegre, 8, 10, 
72, 109; Wiuegre, 110. Vinegar. 

Venison, see next. 

Venson) or bef, Stekys of, 40 ; Veny- 
son -with Furmenty, 6, Furmenty 
with v., 70, see Douce MS., No. 180 ; 
V. in Broth, 10, 70, 63, see Douce 
MS., No. 38 ; Nombles, or Nomblys 
of v., 70, 10, see Douce MS., No. 
39, F. of C, No. 54, Warner, p. 53, 
and II. No. 12 ; V. y-bake, 51, 73, 
see Douce MS., No. 40 ; Venysoun, 
1, 10, 49, V. rested, 81, see Douce 
MS., No. 124, Napier, p. 66 ; Veny- 
soun Roste, 64, has " in syrup " added 
to it, in A. 

Verge sauce, 102, 104, Vert Sauce. 



GLOSSARY AND INDEX. 



149 



Yergeous, sh., 72; Verious, 7, 8, 9; 
109; Veriows, 13; Vertious, 115, 
Veryous, 18, 20. " Verjuice is the 
juice of Crabs, or sour apples" ; 
Holme, III. iii. 85. 
Yergyussauce, 103, 104. Yerjuice- 

sauce. 
Yernage, si., 22 ; Yernage pimej, 28. 
" Vernaccia, a kiude of strong wine 
like malmesie or muskadine, or 
bastard wine;" Florio, 1598. The 
1659 ed. says, " A kind of w^iuter- 
wine." Compare It. Vernaccio, a 
severe winter : seeMAYHEW & Skeat. 

Yesselle, sh., 17, 20; WesseH, 91. 
Yessel ; Fr. Vaisselle. 

Viaundbnise, a Potage, 67 ; Viauncl 
Ryal, bl ; Viaimt Ardant (probably 
brought in with flaming spirits), 61 ; 
Vyaund de cyprys bastarde, 21, 
Vyaund de ciprys Ryalle, 21, Vy- 
aunde de cyprys in lente, 28, see 
l^APiEK, p. 102, F. of C, Nos. 97, 98, 
Warner, pp. 58, 76, L.C.C., p. 8 ; 
Vyande Ryalle, 32, see F. of C, No. 
98, Warner, p. 76 ; Vyand leche, 
36, 37, 38, see Napier, p. 41, " Cold 
leshe viand " j Vyaunde Furnej sanj 
noum, de chare, (two Recipes), 49; 
Vyand Goderygge, 63 ; Vyand Mot- 
legh, 63. Fr. Viande, Meat. 

Yinegar, see Venegre. 

Umbles, see Noinlles. 

Ynce, si., 107; Ynees, 106. Ounce. 

Ynnetli, adv., 84, 85; YnneJ7e, 38, 
43, 44 ; Scarcely. 

Ynderneili, prep., 105 ; Ynder-nethe, 
7. Underneath. 

Yn-puUud, 99, TJnshred. 

Yntrusse, vl.t., 41. Entruss on spit. 

VotrelU), 69, is probably the Dish 
mentioned in Napier, p. 44, as 
" Votose " ; the liquid II would give 
VotreU'S, and possibly Votews ; after 
Mortrews. Votose is made up of 
Gobbets of Marrow, cut Dates, sugar, 
powdered Ginger, Saftron, Salt, which 
is put between leaves of paste, closed, 
baked, and then cut in pieces two 
inches square : it is also called 
Votese. 

Urchins, see Yrchons. 



Yyn, si., 104; Yynncs, 106, Fin. 
Vyolet, sh., 5, 29 ; Vyolette, 23, 29. 
Violet. 

Waffres, 39 ; Waffrys, 39, 63. Wafers. 

Walkys in bruette, 23 ; Walkys, 60 ; 

Welkes boyled, 106, see Douce MS., 

No. 164, Napier, p. 74 ; Wylkys, 60. 

Walnotys, 109. Walnuts. 

War, adj., 38. Ware : avrare. 

Wardons, 87, Wardones, 106; War- 

donys in Syryp, 7, see Warner, 

p. 72 ; Quyncis or Wardouns in 

past, 51 ; Charde warden, 12 ; Chare 

de Wardone, 88. Warden Pears. 

"A Warden is like a Quince, but 

brown and spotted ; of them there 

are several sorts."— Holme, Armory, 

II. iii. 47. 

Ware, vh.mt., 42. 

AVarme hot, 8. 

Wiishe, vi.^., 5; WaPsche,5; Wasshe, 
10 ; Waysshe, 25 ; Whas, 112 ; Whess, 
112,114; Wasshen, pp. ,84: ; Wasshem, 
18, 20, 23, Wash 'em. 

Wast, lb., 25. Waste. 

Wastel, si., 22; Wastel bred, 112, 
Wastilbrede, 28, Wastylljrede, 28, 
Wastel bread : bread made of fine 
flour: Angio-Fr. Wasiel, Oastel, Fr. 
Gasteaii, Gdtean. 

Water, si., 13; Watere, 42; Watre, 
109. 

AVatteryd, «rf/.,26. Watered; soaked, 
to get the salt out. 

W^ay, si., 73. Whey. 

Wesing, si., 80; Wesyng, 116, 117. 
Weasaud. 

WesseH, si., 91. Yessel. 

Wete, si., 105. Wheat. 

AVete,f5.!!., 11,48, 105; r/^'.,48. Wet. 

Wexe, vlAnt., 8, 17, W. hard, 35, 
Wexyth, 35. Wax ; grow. 

Whan, conj., 18. When. 

Wheder, adj., 33, Whether ; which- 
ever. 

Whele, conj., 23. While. 

Whelks, see Walkys. 

Whete, s^., 6, 15; Wete, 105. Wheat. 

Whe)7er-ener, 131. Whither ever, 
Wherever. 



150 



FIFTEENTH CENTURY COOKERY BOOKS. 



"Whetyn floui-e, 33. Wheaten flour. 

Whey, sb., 56 ; Way, 73. 

White of egges, 74, 75 ; Whyte 
Mortrewes, 19, 28 (Pork), see Kapier, 
p. 106, Warner, p. 62, L.C.C., p. 13, 
F. of C, No. 46 ; W. pesyn in 
grauey, 33 ; Whyte of eyroun, 11, 
14, W. of lekys, 14, W. brede, 11, 30, 
W. sugre, 7, 8. For White Sauces, 
see Sauces: see also Wi/n. 

Whyle, A gret, 26, A long time ; A 
good whylys, 42. 

Wine, see IVyn. 

With-owte, 48 ; With-jnne & w^t7^- 
owte, 47. 

Wodecok, 80, see Douce MS , No. 
121, Napier, p. 64, " W. rost," L.C.C., 
p. 35, " ir. sn7/}t, and Curlue.'" 

Woldyst, 20, Wouldest. 

Wole, vh.int., 31 ; Wolle, 26; Wolt, 
33. Will, Wilt. 

Wollen, adj., 32. Woollen. 

Wombe, sb., 39, of fish. Belly ; 38, 
39, of sheep. Maw, stomach ; Wombe 
side vpward, 131. 

Wort, sb., 107, Unfermented beer. 

Wortes de pesoun, Lange, 5, Longe 
W. de Pesone, 89 (Pease\ see Douce 
MS., No. 2 ; Lange Wortys de 
chare, 5, see Douce MS., No. 1 ; 
Whyte wortes, 6 ; Hare in Wortes, 
69 ; Buttered Wortes, 69, see 
Napier, p. 84, see also Napier, 
p. 82, " Wortis." 

Wryng, ih.t., 29 ; Wryng )>orw 
straynoure, or cloj^e, 22, 28. Wring. 

Wyl, adv., 6, 7, 11, 20, 26; Wylle, 
26. Well. 

Wylkys, 60. Whelks. 

Wyn, sb., 20, Rede wyn, 20 ; Wyne, 
7, 10, 20, Red wyne, 10, 26, Wyne 
Crete (of Crete), 48, Swete Wyne, 22, 
35, Whyte Wyne, 15, 35, Rochelle 
Wyne, 15. Wine. 

Wyth,i?re^.,13,With;Wyth-owte,12. 



Y-bake, 51, T-baken, 54, Baked; 
Y-blaunchyd, 31, Blanched ; Y- 
bontyd, 38, Bunted, sifted ; Y-bounde 
Wit/i Floure of Rys, 39, Made still' ; 



Y-boylid, 10, 18, Y-boylyd, 6; Y- 
braid, 48, Pounded ; Y-broyhd, 47 ; 
Y-choppid, 33, 46 ; Y-chowchyd, 26, 
Y-couched, laid ; Y-clepid, 43 ; Y- 
closyd,48, Closed (of a pie) ; Y-corven, 
23, Cut ; Y-coryd, 46, Cored ; Y-cutte, 
51 ; Y-dicyd, 22, Cut into dice ; Y- 
draw, 6, 9, 10, 11, 15, 33, Y-drawe, 26, 
Drawn through strainer, see the verb 
Draw ; Y-dressid, 8, 11, Dressed for 
table ; Y-farsyd, 40, Stufied ; Y- 
fastenyd, 50 ; Y-gratyd, 15, 19 ; Y- 
grounde, 13, 18, 23, 110 ; Y-hackyd, 
55 ; Y-harded, 99, Y-hardid, 52, Har- 
dened ; Y-heled, 112, Y-helid, 40, 
Y-helyd, 54, Covered ; Y-hole, 22, 
this may be uncut, with the stones 
in ; possibly sX-i«»e(^, Hulled ; A. also 
reads thus : Y-kremyd, 40, Crimmed, 
crumbled ; Y-kyt, 55, Cut ; Y-leched, 
86, Y-lechyd, 35, Leched, cut in 
strips ; Y-like, 20, Alike ; Y-mad, 6, 
12, 51, made; Y-makyd, 49, Made ; 
Y-mellid, 55, Y-mellyd, 28, 55, 
Mingled ; Y-mengyd, 38, Menged, 
Mixed ; Y-mynced, 6, 14, 18, Y-myn- 
syd, 13, Minced; Y-opened, 114; 
Y-pede. 29, ? Y-pared, pared (A. also 
reads thus); Y-pekid, 41, Y-pikyd, 
37, Picked ; Y-peyntid, 29, Painted ; 
Y-pileyd, 37, Peeled; Y-rollyd, 48, 
Rolled ; Y-rosted, 106, 114, Y-rostyd, 
23, 38, Roasted; Y-.schred, 49, Y- 
schredyd, 29. Y-scredde, 40, Shred- 
ded ; Y-Skaldyd, 22, Scalded; Y- 
smete, 55, Smitten, chopped ; Y- 
sode, 19, Y-sothe, 23, 37, 55, Sodden, 
boiled ; Y-stekyd, 52, Y-stykyd, 35, 
Stuck ; Y-strainyd, 17, Y-straynid, 
55, Strained through sti'ainer ; Y- 
stwyde, 9, stewed ; Y-sweugyd, 25, 
Y-swonge, 35, 38, Swung, shaken, 
mixed ; Y-take, 88, Taken ; Y-tallyd, 
27, Y-tayhd, 27, 33, Cut, Fr. Tailler; 
Y-temperyd, 7, 17, 28, Mixed ; Y- 
tryid, 11, 15, 36, 51, 52, Picked, 
separated, the last example appa- 
rently meaning " strained through 
strainer;" Y-wasche, 7, Y-wasshe, 2.3, 
1 14, Washed ; Y- watery d, 43, Soaked ; 
Y-wet, 102, 106, Y-wette, 52, Wet, 
steeped ; Y-wreten, 21, Written ; 
Y-wronge oute, 84, 91, Wrung 
out. 



GLOSSARY AND INDEX. 



151 



Teest, 96, Yeast. 

Y-fere, 18, Together. 

Y-liche moclie, 70, A like much, or 
quantity. 

Ynouh, adv., 75 ; Y-now, 5, 6, 8 ; 
Ynowe, 19, 35. Enough. 

Yrchons, 3; Yrchouns, 38, 61, 62. 
Urchins ; hedgehogs. See Warner, 
p. 66, " U)-c/ioni/s." So called from 
being made bristly with Almonds. 

Yren, sb., 93. Iron. 

Ys, 17, Is. 

Yt, 15, 17, 35. It. 



^elow, adj., 20, 30. Yellow. 

^ere, sb., 15, 29, 47. Year. 

^est, sb., 10, 44. Yeast. 

^et, pron., 31. It. 

3if, vb.t., 22, 29, 112. Give. 

]if, co»J., 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 30, 47. If. 

]olkes of egges, 109 ; ^olkys, 8, 9, 

11, 12, 19, 29. Yolks. 
^ong, adj., 54; ^onge, 31. Young. 



^ynes, sh., 37. Sinews. 



STEPHEN AUSTIN AND SONS, PRINTERS, HERTFORD. 



■3^10 



Iw.H.MlLNESy 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 

lllllllilllli , 

3 9999 05987 779 3 



;..fM;>; 






