CIHM 
Microfiche 
Series 
(Monographs) 



ICMH 

Collection de 
microfiches 
(monographies) 




Canadian Institute for Historical MIcroreproductions / instltut canadien de microreproductions historiques 






jes 



Technical and Bibliographic Notes / Notes techniques et bibliographiques 



The Institute has attempted to obtain the best onginal 
copy available for (ilrr.ing. Features of this copy which 
may be bibliographically unique, whiuh may alter any oi 
the images in the reproduction, or which may 
significantly change the usual method of filming are 
checked below. 



1/ 



Coloured covers / 
Couverlure de couleur 

Covers damaoed/ 



Covers restored and/or laminated / 
Couverlure restauree et/ou pelliculee 



L I Couverlure endommag^e 

D 

I I Cover title missing / Le litre de couverlure manque 
Coloured maps / Cartes g^ographiques en couleur 

□ Coloured ink (i.e. other than blue or black) /' 
Encre de couleur (i.e. autre que bleue ou noire) 

□ Coloured plates and/or illustrations / 
Planches et/ou illustrations en couleur 



D 
D 



D 



Bound with other material / 
Reli6 avec d'autres documents 

Only edition available / 
Seule Edition disponible 

Tight binding may cause shadows or distortion along 
interior margin / La reliure serr^e peut causer de 
I'ombre ou de la distorsion le long de la marge 
int6rieure. 

Blank leaves added during restorations may appear 
within the text. Whenever possible, these have been 
omitted from filming / II se peul que cerlaines pages 
blanches ajout6es lors d'une restauration 
apparaissent dans le texle, mais, lorsque cela etait 
possible, ces pages I'ont pas et6 film^es. 



L'Instilut a microfilm^ le meiileur exemplaire qu'il lui a 
et6 possible de se procurer. Les details de cet exem- 
plaire qui sont peut-6tre uniques du point de vue bibii- 
ographique, qui peuvent modifier une image reproduite, 
ou qui peuvent exiger une modification dans la mdtho- 
de normale de filmage sont indiqu^s ci-dessous. 

Coloured pages / Pages de couleur 

I '/^ Pages damaged / Pages endommag^es 



D 



Pages restored and/or laminated / 
Pages restaur^es eVou pellicul^es 



[~~l Pages discoloured, stained or foxed / 
I. I Pages d^color^es, tachet^es ou piqu^es 

I Pages detached/ Pages detach^es 

Showlhrough / Transparence 

I I Quality of print varies / 



D 
D 



D 



Quality in^gale de I'impression 

Includes supplementary material / 
Comprend du materiel suppl^mentaire 

Pages wholly or partially obscured by errata slips, 
tissues, elc, have been refilmed to ensure the best 
possible image / Les pages totalement ou 
parliellement obscurcies par un feuiliet d'errata, une 
pelure, etc., ont ete filmies a nouveau de fafon k 
obtenir la meilleure image possible. 

Opposing pages with varying colouration or 
discolourations are filmed twice to ensure the best 
possible image / Les pages s'opposant ayant des 
colorations variables ou des decolorations sont 
lilmees deujc fois afin d'obtenir la meilleure image 
possible. 



E Additional comments / 
Commenlaires suppl^mentaires: 



Various pagings: p. |lj-188, [il-iv. 

Pagination multiple: p. [lJ-188, |i]-iv. 

There are some creases in the middle of the pages. 

II y a des plis dans le lailleu des pages. 



This Item is filmed «t the reduction ratio checked betow / 

Cc docurncrii est liifnc ou toux w2 fcuucticn ffidss^us ci=wSJi5U8. 



10x 








14x 








18x 








22x 








26x 








30x 






















LzJ 































12x 



16x 



20x 



24x 



2ex 



32x 



The copy filmed here has been repr duced thanks 
to the generosity of: 

Toronto Public Library 
North York Central Library 
Canadiana Department 

The images appearing here are the best quality 
possible considering the condition and legibility 
of the original copy and In keeping with the 
filming contract specifications. 



Original copies in printed paper covers are filmed 
beginning with the front cover and ending on 
the last page with a printed or illustrated impres- 
sion, or the back cover when appropriate. All 
other original copies are filmed beginning on the 
first page with a printed or illustrated impres- 
sion, and ending on the last page with a printed 
or illustrated impression. 



L'exemplaire filmd fut reproduit grace d la 
gin^rositi de: 

Toronto Public Library 
North York Central Library 
Canadiana Department 
Les images suivantes ont iti reproduites avec le 
plus grand soin, compte tenu de la condition et 
de la netteti de l'exemplaire film*, et en 
conformity avec les conditions du contrat de 
filmage. 

Les exemplaires originaux dont la couverture en 
papier est imprimis sont filmis en commenpant 
par le premier plat et en terminant soit par la 
derniAre page qui comporte une empreinte 
d'impression ou d'illustration, soit par le second 
plat, salon le cas. Tous les autres exemplaires 
originaux sont filmis en commencant par la 
premiere page qui comporte une empreinte 
d'impression ou d'illustration et en terminant par 
la derniAre page qui comporte une telle 
empreinte. 



The last recorded frame on each microfiche 
shall contain the symbol — «^ (meaning "CON- 
TINUED "I, or the symbol V (meaning "END"), 
whichever applies. 

Maps, plates, charts, etc., may be filmed at 
different /eduction ratios. Those too large to be 
entirely included in one exposure are filmed 
beginning in the upper left hend corner, left to 
right and vop to bottom, as many frames as 
required. The following diagrams illustrate the 
method: 



Un des symboles suivants apparaltra sur la 
derniire image de cheque microfiche, selon le 
cas: le symbols — »• signifie "A SUIVRE ". le 
symbols V signifie "FIN". 

Les cartes, planches, tableaux, etc., peuvent etre 
filmis A des taux da reduction diffirents. 
Lorsque le document est trop grand pour etre 
reproduit en un seul clich*. il est film* d partir 
de I'anglo supirieur gauche, de gauche A droits. 
et de haut en bas. en prenant le nombre 
d'images nicessaire. Les diagrcmmes suivants 
illustrent la mdthode. 



1 


2 


3 




1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 



MICROCOPY RESOLUirON TEST CHART 

(ANSI and ISO TEST CHART No. 2) 



1.0 



I.I 



1.25 



HmraESH 

1^ 



CbUu 



2.8 
3.2 

m 

(4.0 



1.4 



2.5 




1.6 



A APPLIED IfVMGE Inc 



1653 East Main Street 
Rochester, New York 14609 
(716) 482 - 0300 - Phone 
(716) 288 - 5989 - Fax 



USA 



A 



THE BREADMAKER'S 



BOOK OF 



Cooking Lessons 



COMPILED FROM 



ORIGINAL AND SELECTED FORMULAE. 



Entered according to Act of Parliament of Canada, in the year one tliousand 
eight hundred and eighty-eight, by T. H. Chukchili., in the office of 
the Minister of Agriculture. 



CHURCHILL & CO., 
TORONTO. ONT. 



TO TH« 



BREAD-WINNERS AND BREAD-MAKERS 



OF AMERICA 



THE TWO MOST IMPORTANT PERSONAGES IN EVERY FAMILY, AROUNI> WHOM 
CLUSTER ITS MINOR MEMHKRS, BY HUlLKli. KORCE OF AFt EC llON AND 
GRATITUDE— IN TRIAL AND PROSPEKITY, IN SICKNESS 
AND IN HEALTH ; AND BY WHOSE SUPERIOR WIS- 
DOM, SELF-DENIAL AND LO\E THAT 
PLACE CALLED HOME IS MADE 
THESAFEST, HAPPIEST AND 
DEAREST PLACE ON 
EARTH : 



TO THESE 



<5[ht3 IJook 10 mo0t rcspedfuHs Jleliifateb. 



PREFACE. 



)M 




' O me, the ideal family is a happy group of children, 
friends and helpers, all clustering, by sheer force 
of gratitude and affection, about the two most 
important pcrsonageo of the household, be the 
same high or humble— namely, the Bread-Winner 
and the Bread-Maker. These compound words, 
being interpreted, mean the one who provides 
and the one who directs and cares for all under 
their wise and kindly guidance. How few there are who, 
until they themselves come to occupy such positions, can 
know how broad and generous the human heart may grow 
by unselfish effort for others. When I realise how lovable 
and worthy hundreds of such are, and how little appreciated, 
I often blush to think there was a time I was unaware of it, 
and that I must have betrayed that condition, all ijnkuown 
to myself, by i a 'y an act of thoughtlessness. 

There are none so great as small things, seems a paradox, 
but to those who hav" learned to make " Home the dearest 
place on earth," this is an open secret. It is the patient ones 
who plod the rounds of endless repetition, whose watchful- 
ness leaves nothing undone, to whom we owe many of the 
comforts of home, scarcely appreciated until they are missed. 
The object of this book is to aid such as are so inclined to a 
higher perfection in their useful sphere. 

The great chemist, Baron Leibig, in his work. The Chem- 
istry of Food," says: "Among all the arts known to man 
there is none which enjoys a juster appreciation, and the pro- 
ducts which are more universally admired, than that which 
is concerned in the preparation of our food. Led by an 
instinct, which has almost reached the dignity of conscious 
knowledge, as the unerring guide, and by the sense of taste, 
which protects the health, the experienced cook, with respect 
to the choice, the admixture, and the preparation of food, has 



VI. 



PREFACE. 



made acquisitions surpassing all that chemical and phys.o. 
logical science have done in regard to the doctrine or theory 
of nutrition. In soup and meat sauces, he imitates the gastric 
juice; and, by the cheese which closes the banquet, he assist3 
the action of the dissolved epithelium of the '.tomach Such 
is the high eulosium paid to cuUuary science by that learned 
min and perhaps there is no one more able of appreciatmg 
its vilue than he. Therefore .-e do not yet despair of seeing 
the day .vhen that science, like others, will have its quahfied 

^'MlnTof the receipts may appear rather lengthy, but we 
want' to draw attention to the fact that they are more than 
receipts-indeed we may call them plain lessons, some con- 
taining a number of receipts m one. In some cookery books 
many receipts are explained in few lines, which at first sight 
gives to the thing the appearance of simplicity; but when acted 
on by tho uninitiated are found totally impracticable. By our 
plan readers may read and prepare the contents of two or thr«e 
iines at a time, so that when they get at the end of the lesson 
their dish will be found well seasoned and properly cooked 

The sources from which we have drawn information on the 
several branches of our subject are manifold. But most 
largely we are indebted to an enthusiastic housewife who 
placed at our disposal a bulky scrap book, the accumulation 
of years of reading and experiment. Many of the formula 
were contained in letters from friends; but these, as well as 
those "scrapped" from newspapers and magazines, were 
marked with her opinions and alterations-^..^ or trted ^^ 
the cas- might be. In some instances we have consulted 
other publications, notably Marion Hariand's excellent and 
U-uly .'Common Sense in the Household '"' Mrs. Clark « 
Cooleiy Book," "The Home Cook." "Mother Hubb.rd, 
and " Soyer's English Cook Book." But we feel assureo that 
any one familiar with either will, after studymg this book 
aeree with us that our time has not. been spent m vain, but 
that The Brfadmakers' Book of Cooking Lessons is m 
many respects worthy of a place in every household. 

Respectfully, ^^^ ^^^^^^^^ 



CONTENTS. 



PAXiC. 

OuK Plan ;..j 

Weights and Measures g 

Lessons in Breadmaking -*••>- io 

Lessons in Cakemaking •-.... jg 

Pies, Puddings, Tarts, etc. ca 

Animal Food *2 

Sauces, Gravies, Salads and Relishes • - • 98 

Sours 107 

Vegetables - - - jj- 

Pickles . ^30 

Catsups i^y 

Eggs 138 

Drinks i^o 

Fi^^iT 146 

Food for the Sick jey 

Family Prescriptions jg^ 

Disinfectants ly^ 

Materia Medica . lyy 

Miscellaneous «>....•. iQq 



Comparative Values of Foods. 



Tn tlio followine table the first column shows the heating material or ener^rv 
M food wWch represents only a part of its nutritive value. Bes.dcf. serving as 
?.ll our Toodhal^st^U more Tmportant uses, viz., in forming and repairing the 
{issues of the bodyrwhich value^is shown in the second column, and includes all 
digestible matter, the waste being mostly water. 



Arhcles of Diet. 



Beer or Porter 

Beef, round, rather lean.. 
Beef, sirloin, rather fat. , 

Mutton, fat 

Pork, bacon, very fat 

Poultry 

Haddock 

Mackerel 



Oysters 



liens' Eggs 

Cows' Milk 

Buttermilk 

Cheese, whole milk 

" skimmed 

Butter 

Oleomargarine 

Sugar 

1.T1 *. I Very fine 

^^"^=^t J Medium 

^ '""'■ I Coarse, whole wheat. 

Wheat Bread, average 

Black Bread, rye, Germ;ui 



Oatmeal 

Corn, maize, meal. 
Rice 



Potatoes 

Turnips 
Beans.. . 
Apples . 
Peaches. 
Grapes. . 



•f- 2 a: w 

OuhUJ 

HO 



Grains. 

3>S 

2300 

2650 
2700 
4200 

470 
320 

460 

456 
540 
2550 
2346 
4700 
4860 



1990 

2240 
4200 

33"o 

260 

23S 
4600 



5J 3 

O c 



Percentage, 



33^ 

40 

43 

90 

26 

13 

23 
13 

H 
69 

57 
9' 
90 






67 

ss 
87^ 

9 
90 



H 



II. iM. 



50 



30 

30 
30 
30 
30 

IS 

30 
30 



3 




4 




3 




4 




3 


.10 


3 


IS 


I 


IS 


3 


30 


3 




3 




3 


.30 


I 


3,0 


I 


3,0 


I 


30 



-§(3 

IS 



Rare. 

Well done. 
tt (< 

Roasted. 

Fried. 

Roasted. 

Baked. 

Broiled. 

Raw. 

Stewed. 

Whipped. 

Boiled. 

Fresh. 



Stale. 
Fresh. 



Porridge. 

Bread. 

Boiled. 

Baked. 

Boiled. 

Baked. 
Stewed. 

u 

Raw. 



It is obvious from the above table that bread, '^f';"'"^;' ;. ." l''^^f^ .\tf ^^S 
beans and milk are the cheaper foods-that ih you get ^Jf.f ;; i.^^J %*^"ters 1 1 
for the money. Conjpare the price of a ?";.", °f^,^.';Xvc one-eig hUi the price 
nutrition being equal, viz,, 13 per cent., but theom. is auovc one c y i 

of the other, the milk being more easily digeslea. which are both 

AKiiin compare the nutritive value of bacon and beans, wmc ^^^^^ ^^^^ 

Qoper-cent., but in. I'"^'=/•V';;"!,:;^;' Tuc^winrr than summeV foods, but 
^^^±'llft^e:!^rwnru:i!e1l,;i:::ur^^i^!Sv::'p^^ m .nakmg further com- 
parisons for themselves. 



The Breadmaker' 



s 



COOKING LESSONS. 



OUR PLAN. 

Now that we ha,e set about collecting the experience 
of all the hundreds of writers, experimenters and dis- 
coverers, prize-winners and others noted for the excel- 
lence of their cookery, now that we have come really 
to the great work which we have set for ourselves, 
we have discovered that to do so effectually we mr-st 
have a plan. Well, here it is : — We shall depart f. om 
the usual routine of such books as commence with 
SOUP and finish with dessert, and instead, we shall 
commence with byead as the most important food of 
mankind, after which will follow as nearly as possible^ 
in the order of their importance, the several dishes and 
elaborated foods clear down to the trivial, if there is 
such a thing in the art of cooking food, to properly 
nourish and sustain the human body. 

It has always seemed to us that there was top much 
vagueness about the description of quantities in Kecipe 
Books, and so to put ourselves right with the careful 
and particular student of the art, we append the fol- 
lowing : — 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

Ten eggs are equal to one pound. 
One pound of brown, white, crushed, or broken loaf 
sugar is equal to one quart. 

One pound of soft butter is equal to one quart. 



10 THE BREADMAKER's COOKING LESSONS. 

One pound of Indian corn meal or of wheat flour is 
one quart, lacking only two ounces. One teaspoonful 
is equal to a dram, of which eight make one ounce. 

Two teaspoonfuls equal a dessertspoonful. 

Two dessertspoonfuls equal a tablespoonful. 

Four large tablespoonfuls equal a half-gill or wine- 
glassful. 

Sixteen tablespoonfuls is a half-pint— thirty-two is 

one pint. 

A common tumbler or goblet holds half a pint, an 
ordinary teacup holds the same, and four teacups hold 
one quart. 



LESSONS IN BREADMAKING. 



No matter what a woman's accomphshm-nts may be, 

she has still something worthy to be added to her list, 

if she does not know how to make a good loaf of bread. 

With the choicest and best of all else, and poor yeast, 

good sweet, nutty bread is impossible. 

Without good flour it is impossible to make good 
bread. Care must therefore be taken in purchasing, 
and if you do not know the tests, deal with some one 
who does know them and on whom you can rely. 

if you are but just starting to make your own bread, 
select the best brand recommended, buying only a small 
quantity till you prove it by trial. 

The most important test of good flour is that it 
impacts or holds together when piissed in the hand. 

T r _!__ £1 ,.r;n Ht-'o ^ charnpr. mealv feel, and tlie 

slightest odoui of mustiness proclaims it unfit for use. 






LESSONS IN BKEAUMAKING. 



u 



good 



In wet weather harvests much of the wheat sprouts and 
grows. Flour made of such wheat will scarcely form a 
dough, but when wet has a slimy, pasty feel, instead of 
being smooth, firm and elastic. Purchase only the best 
quality of flour, for it is the truest economy. 

Good bread is not the result of chance or luck, as 
some people call it. Lightness, or that even porous, 
spongy condition is produced by carbonic acid gas, set 
free by fermentation. Now, fermentation cannot take 
place except there is a certain heat or temperature — 
from 70° to 80° is the proper thing. It is just as impos- 
sible for fermentation to occur in a lov/ temperature or 
to be rapid below 70' as it is for a fish to live out of 
water. If after setting your yeast, as hereafter described, 
the setting not being so situated as to be kept at an 
even warm temperature, you need not be surprised if it 
is slow or unsatisfactory. A setting of bread is some- 
thing like a young infant — it must be kept warm. But 
enough has been said, the laws of nature know nothing 
of forgiveness, so the punishment for carelessness or 
neglect is that you will be sure to have dark, sour bread. 

Remember the following are essential to success ;— 
Time, good material, proper temperature, and care. To 
economize time we recommend the practice of setting 
the yeast for a batch of bread at night, so that the 
sponge is ready for the secondary stage of the work in 
the morning. 

We quote from the very careful and elaborate direc- 
tions given by the manufacturers of the Breadmaker's 
Hop Yeast, and add a few of the recipes by ladies who 
took first prizes at exhibitions and fairs in the year 1887, 
published by them. 

The bre^.' which we strongly recommend for those 
who shall .■_. : t their bread " by the sweat of their brow," 
is that made from unbolted flour, or whole meal. It is 



12 



THE BREADMAKER's COOKING LESSONS. 



only the effeminate and delicate that should partake of 
fine flour. The mass of bread is increased one-fifth, 
and the price lowered. 

Liebig says, " The separation of the bran from the 
flour by bolting is a matter of luxury, and injurious 
rather than beneficial as regards the nutritive power of 

the bread." 

It is only in more modern times the sifted flour has 
been known and used, and has been followed by the 
poor, to imitate the luxury of the wealthy, at the expense 
of their health. Certain it is, that where whole meal is 
used as bread, the population have better digestive 
organs than where it is not. 



THE MANAGEMENT OF YEAST. 

I St. — During cold weather be sure and have your 
flour warm. This can be best done by using a kneading 
pan, setting it on the back of the stove, stirring and 
mixing your flour so that the heat is even throughout 
the mass. 

2nd. — Any one who does not know how to make a 
good loaf of bread should be guided by the directions. 

3rd. — When we say milk-warmth, we mean the 
natural heat of milk as it is drawn from the animal. 

^th. — When we say that a cake of yeast is to be dis- 
solved in a little cold water, we do so because if we 
were to say wann water some heedless person would be 
sure to use hot water. What we mean is that the cake 
is to be dissolved without killing the fermenting germ, 
which may easily be done at any stage of the bread- 
making process if the water is more than merely warm. 
Remember this. 

5th. — Fermentation once started will go on almost 
anywhere during the summer months, but all the balance 






LESSONS IN BREADMAKING. 



13 



of the year care must be taken to cover your yeast after 
setting and your sponge after mixing. We think that a 
kneading pan, having a cover, is much better than a 
trough. By using this pan the flour can be warmed on 
the stove in a few minutes by stirring it up from the 
bottom till all the chill is off it. When this is done 
fermentation in cold weather goes on rapidly, and that 

is what you want. 

6th. Fermentation goes on rapidly under favourable 

circumstances. One or two cakes of Breadmaker's 
Yeast will, when stirred into a properly-prepared setting, 
rise to twice the bulk of the setting in three or four 
hours. The sponge will rise much quicker, because 
when you set it you have half its bulk already alive with 
fermentation. Again, after moulding your loaves, it rises 
in twenty or thirty minutes to one hour ready to bake. 

yth. Some people use the salt to season the batch 

when setting the yeast. We prefer to do the salting at 
the second stage of the process called setting the sponge, 
because if done before that it gives the bread the charac- 
ter and taste of what is called " Salt Rising." 

8th. The oven should be ready when the loaves are 

moulded, and hot enough to quickly form a crust, which 
prevents the escape of the carbonic acid gas. This gas 
is what fills the fine cells all through the loaf, making it 
porous, or what is called light bread.- 

gth.— In cold weather have the flour thoroughly 
warmed before mixing. Of course there is a great 
difference in flour. In order to have good bread you 
must have good flour. On the other hand you can 
easily have poor bread with good flour, if poor yeast is 
used. And the yeast may be good and still you may 
have bad bread, from inattention and want of care. 

loth.— Nearly half the cost of bread may be saved by 
makmg it at home ; yet theie are thousands of house- 






u 



THE BREADMAKER'S COOKING LESSONSr 



holds in America where this simple economy is not 
practised, and where the luxury of a sweet nutty bread 
is never enjoyed. 



'I 

m 






BREAD DIRECTIONS. 

TO MAKE A BATCH OF FOUR TO SIX LOAVES. 

Material required — One pound good potatoes, flour 
for the batch, and one or two cakes of the Breadmaker's 
Yeast. 

First Act. — Pare and slice' about one pound of pota- 
toes, boil in two quarts of water, and mash them in the 
same water. To this add a pint of sweet milk, if you 
have it ; if not, use another quart of water to begin 
with. While still boiling, stir in enough flour to make 
a cream-like batter. When cooled down to milk- 
warmth, stir into it one to two cakes of the Bread- 
maker's Yeast, first dissolved in a little cold water. 
Hollow out a space in your flour, which, if the weather 
is cool, should be previously warmed in a kneading pan, 
then pour the whole into it, cover, and set to rise. This 
is called setting the yeast. Some breadmakers set their 
yeast at tea-time, so as to sponge before retiring for the 
night. Others prefer to set their yeast before going to 
bed, so as to give the yeast time to rise to three or four 
times its bulk before morning, and then sponging as 
soon as ready, and this is .e best plan. 

Second Act. — Dissolve sufficient salt to season your 
batch (about a tablespoonful) in two quarts of warm 
(not hot) water ; blend this with your yeast, which 
should be already up to three or four times its bulk. 
You will now see the advantage of setting your yeast in 
the hoUowed-out space in your flour. Commence 
combing the mass through your fingers from the outside 
towards the centre, catching the flour lightly but 



LESSONS IN BREADMAKING. 



16 



rapidly and evenly with your finger tips, working in only 
enough to again form a very thickish creamy batter. 
This is called setting the sponge. 

Third Act. — When your sponge is well up, continue 
the combing process as before, thickening the mass, 
until when you remove sufficient for each loaf to your 
moulding board you have an elastic ball of dough, 
which you lightly and quickly shape and drop deftly 
into your pans. Don't fall into the error of dwelling 
long over each loaf, trying to stuff a lot of flour into it 
with your fists. When you get it merely stiff enough to 
mould that is sufficient. Have your oven ready, and as 
soon as nicely rising, in with it, and bake an hour until 
done. 

FIRST PRIZE BREAD. 

MRS. A. TURNBULL, COURTLAND, ONT. 

«* I set my yeast the same as ordered in the excellent 
directions which accompany Breadmaker's Yeast. I 
sponge in the same pan I set the yeast in, and it came 
up so quickly I soon had it out of the way. One cake 
is enough for three large loaves. As to the oven, I have 
it very hot at first, and let my bread get very light 
before putting it into the oven. Then I gaii^e the oven 
to put a light brown colour, and keep it just a moderate 
heat for one hour. They gave me a ^reat puff at the 
fair over my bread made with this yeast." 



FIRST PRIZE BREAD. 

MRS. GEO. SMALE, STAFF\, ONT. 

" When the potatoes were boiled for dinner (which 
were previously pared), I had ready about a cup and a 
half of flour= I mashed about a pound of the potatoes, 
and put into the flour, pouring on enough potato water 



16 



THE BREADMAKEr's COOKING LESSONS. 



to scald. When cold I put in two cakes of the Bread- 
maker's Yeast, first dissolved in water just a trifle warm. 
Stir well and set to rise. Just before going, to bed I 
dissolve the salt for the batch in warm water, stir in 
more flour, and let it rise over night. In the morning 
mix into dough, giving a good mixing, and then set to 
rise again, and when up mix it down again. When up 
once more knead into loaves ; let rise half an hour, when 
it is ready for the oven. Bake about one hour." 



FIRST PRIZE BREAD. 

MRS. W. B. OVERHOLDT, WELLANDPORT, ONT. 

" ist. — At night, before going to bed, take warm water 
and salt for the batch, stir in flour to make a paste, 
dissolve and add one cake of the Breadmaker's Yeast, 
set in a warm place, and let it rise till morning. 

" 2nd. — In the morning take milk- whey, hollow out a 
space in the flour, which should be warm if the weather 
is cold, and pour it in while quite warm, mix in suflicient 
flour to make a stiff paste, and then mix in the sponge 
already risen. Let all stand until it rises, after kneading 
it twenty-five minutes working into it enough flour to 
make it stiff enough for loaves, then let it rise. Now 
knead into loaves and put into dishes. Let rise again 
until ready to go into the oven. 

" 3rd. — Bake moderately one hour." 



BREAD— THREE FIRST PRIZES. 

How Mrs. J. Breuls, of Ringwood, Ont., took three 
first prizes for bread, viz., at Pickering, Markham and 
Scarboro' township fairs. She says : 

" In the first place I boil three or four nice sized 
potatoes at noon, have sufficient flour in a crock — say 



LESSONS IN UREADMAKING. 



17 



a saucerful— which I scald with the potato water. If 
too thick atld more water to make a nice thin batter, of 
course using the potatoes after mashing them very fine. 
When milk-warm I add one and a half cakes of the 
Breadmaker's Yeast, which is enough for six or seven 
loaves. When it is well risen, and before retiring for 
the night, I take half as much warm water as I intend 
using for the batch, adding flour to make a batter. 
With this I blend the already fermented yeast, and beat 
all thoroughly with a wooden spoon for twenty minutes. 
This I consider is a very particular point in baking. 

«' Secondly : In the morning, when light enough, I 
add the balance of the warm water, in which I first 
dissolve about half a teacupful of salt. I beat and knead 
this about an hour, adding very much flour, which I 
stir in quickly, kneading well while adding the flour. 

" Thirdly : When nice and light I mould into pans. 
Care must be taken not to mould the loaves too large, 
as it cannot prove (or rise) properly if too large. When 
nice and hght I have the oven hot enough so that I can 
hold my hand in it while I count twenty. Then keep 
it at a regular heat until done— about one hour and ten 
minutes." 

BREAD. 

The sponge is made over night in the centre of a pan 
of flour, with milk and warm water and a cup of home- 
made hop and potato yeast or two cakes Breadmaker's 
Yeast to about four loaves. The yeast is put in when 
about half the flour and water are mixed, and then the 
remainder of the water is added and the sponge beaten 
with a wooden spoon for fifteen minutes and left to rise 
over night in a moderately warm place. In the morning, 
the bread-doi mixed and kneaded for half an hour, 
adding nour io make a stin dough, and leit to rise m a 
mass. It is then made into small loaves, being kneaded 



18 



THE BREADMAKER's COOKING LESSONS. 



Ufl 



with as little flour as possible, and put in pans to rise 
the second time, all the while keeping moderately warm 
and when light bake in a moderately hot oven. The 
important part of said recipe is the beating of the sponge 
fifteen minutes, as given. 

SUPERIOR BREAD. 

Scald one quart of sour milk; when cool enough, set 
your sponge with the whey ; take about three quarts of 
flour, make a hole in the centre, put in the whey about 
a good teaspoon of salt, two cakes of good hop yeast 
(Breadmaker's is best), and stir quite stiff with a spoon ; 
wrap in a thick cloth so as to keep as warm as possible 
in cold weather, in summer it is not necessary. In the 
morning knead well, adding flour until stiff enough, and 
keep warm until light ; then set it in pans to rise ; no 
saleratus is needed. Bread made in this way will never 
fail to be good, if good flour and yeast are used. 

ELECTION CAKE, WITH YEAST. 

One pound of sugar, three-fourths of a pound of butter, 
four eggs, one or two cakes of yeast, two and a half 
pounds of flour, one pint of milk, spices and raisins, one 
teacup of molasses ; mix the yeast with the milk and a 
part of the flour and let it stand over night ; in the 
morning work the butter and sugar together, then add 
the eggs and work the dough with the rest of the in- 
gredients ; rise again before baking. 

YEAST BREAD. 

Pare twelve medium-sized potatoes and put them 
in a kettle to boil. While they are boiling put in a 
pan three heaped tablespoonfuls of flour, two ea^^h of 
sugar and salt. Pour slowly over these a pint of boiling 
water, stirring constantly to free from lumps. When 

<3r»ff mach fVif> not^tnf>Q itt^ '^r^A *-r\ +1^- — —i- — a- --T ^i- - 

pan. Now pour in a quart of cold water and one of 



LESSONS IN BREADMAKING. 



19 



boiling water. Set aside till cool enough to be milk 
warm. Stir in tv^o cakes of Breadmaker's Yeast dis- 
solved in a little water. Keep warm till a foam rises 
over the top, when it is ready for use. For each loaf of 
the bread takv"; one pint of the yeast, no other wetting 
being required. Make a hole in the centre of a pan of 
flour, pour in the yeast and stir it thick as possible, 
cover and set in a warm place to rise, which will be in 
about two hours — sometin es lesL — now mix into loaves, 
let il rise again, and bake from a half to three-quarters 
of an hour. A great advantage of this bread is, it is so 
quickly made. If the yeast should become a little sour, 
a pinch of soda maybe put in when first stirred for bread. 

PLAIN BREAD (wiTH BAKING POWDER). 

Half pound of white flour, one teaspoonful of baking 
powder, a pinch of salt, half a pint of milk or water. 
The simplest way of making bread in small quantities is 
as follows : Take half a pound of white flour, and, whilst 
in a dry state, mix in thoroughly a small teaspoonful 
of Breadmaker's Baking Powder and a pinch of salt. 
Then add about a quarter of a pint of milk and water, 
or water alone ; knead it as quickly as possible, and put 
immediately into a very hot oven ; the whole secret of 
making light bread after this fashion lies in attention to 
these last rules. If the oven is well heated, it will rise 
almost directly, and it should be baked until the outside is 
quite crisp and hard. We generally knead ours into the 
desired shape, but they can be baked in tins if preferred. 
For brown bread we use three; parts of brown and one of 
white flour, and a little extra baking powder ; also add- 
ing a ' ttle more water, if necessary, to mix it. 

STEAMED BROWN BREAD. 

One pint of sweet milk, four tablespoons of molasses, 
one cup of Indian meal, two cups of rye or Graham 



20 



THE BREADMAKER S COOKING LESSONS. 



flour, one teaspoon of salt, one of saleratus ; mix with a 
spoon, and steam three hours, and bake half an hour oi 
more. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

One and a half cup of Graham flour, two cups o' 
corn meal, one-half cup of molasses, one pint of Mveei 
milk, and one-half teaspoon of soda ; steam three h jurs. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

One quart buckwheat flour, one teaspoonful of salt, 
stir in water to make a thin batter ; beat thoroughly, 
with two cakes of Breadmaker's Yeast first dissolved in 
cold water. Set the batter in a warm place ; let it rise 
over night ; add one teaspoonful of soda in the morning. 

GRAHAM ROLLS. 

Two cups Graham meal, one-half cup of flour, one 
egg, two teaspooiifuls of Breadmaker's Baking Powder, 
one-half cup of sugar and a little salt. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

For one loaf, take two cups of white bread sponge, 
adding two tablespoon fuls of brov/n sugar, and Graham 
flour to make a s!'flf batter ; let it ru<- ; .tter which add 
Graham flour sufficient to kn ' h 



then put in the pan to rise and bake. 



)u' iiot very stiff"; 



I ; !,i i 



11 lit 



PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

One quart of cold boiled milk, two quarts of flour, one 
la ^:e tablespoonful of lard rubbed into the flour ; make 
,1 hole in '^e middle of the flour ; take one or two cakes 
of yeast dissolved in water, one-half cup of sugar, add 
the milk and pour into the flour with a little salt ; let it 
stand as it is until morning, then knead it hard and let it 
rise ; knead again at four in the afternoon ; cut out ready 
to bake and let it rise again. Bake twenty minutes. 



LESSONS IN DREADMAKlNG. 



21 



ROLLS. 

To the quantity of light bread dough that you would 
take for twelve persons, add the white i>f one egg well 
beaten, two tablespoons of white sugar, and two table- 
spoons of butter ; work these thoroughly together ; roll 
out about half an inch thick ; cut the size desired, and 
spread one with melted butter and lay another upon the 
top of it. Bake delicately, when they have risen. 

Exquisite rolls may be made by ising a very smal' 
trifle of pure lard with a portion of yc ar sponge, knead- 
ing well to make the grain fine. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

Take one to two cakes of the Breadm ker's Yeast, rub 
a small one-half cup of butter in the flour (you will ha\ e 
to guess the quantity), then add the y -ast, and water 
enough to wet ; mix as for soda biscuit. Let it rise till 
morning. Roll in thin sheets, and cut into squares, 
spread a very little butter on each, and s prinkie a little 
flour on to roll up. Put in the pan wl m light, bake 
twenty minutes. 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 

Two cups of milk, one cake of yeast, flc ir enonf^h to 
make a battel*, make this batter at nooi set it in a 
warm place and let it rise until night ; light, add 
tablespoonful of butter, same of salt, one -igg, cup of 
sugar and a little cinnamon, half teaspoonful soda, and 
let it rise until morning. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Take part of the sponge that has been pi epared for 
your white bread, war water can be added, mix it 
with Graham flour (not l j stiff). 

For Brown Biscuit. — Take this Graham dough, as 
prepared for bread, working in a little butter. j_-uttcr 
the size of an egg is sufficient for two dozen biscuits. 



^.r'j,-* Tj; ^■'ffirrw *s 



H 1 1 



22 



h-is 






') i 



THE BREADMAKER's COOKING LESSONS. 



CORN BREAD. 



One-half pint of buttermilk, one-half pint sweet milk ; 
sweeten the sour milk with one-half teaspoon of soda ; 
if you have no sour milk use water instead, and use one 
teaspoonful of Breadmaker's Baking Powder ; beat two 
eggs, whites and yolks together ; pour the milk into the 
eggs, then thicken with about nine tablespoons of sifted 
corn meal. Put the pan on the stove with a piece of 
lard the size of an egg ; when melted pour it in the 
batter ; this lard by stirring it will grease the pan to 
bake in ; add a teaspoon of salt. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Set sponge of fine flour, using Breadmaker's Yeast 
the same as for white bread. When raised use Graham 
flour to usual consistency. Mould with fine flour, let 
it rise once, then bake. 

BREAKFAST MUFFINS. 

Three eggs, one breakfastcupful of milk, one table- 
spoonful of butter melted, one of sugar, a pinch of salt, 
two teaspoonfuls of Breadmaker's Baking Powder. 
Whisk the eggs and mix with the milk ; put the melted 
butter into a basin with the above ingredients, mixing 
in flour enough to make a batter. Bake in round tins, 
and when almost done wash the top of each with a 
feather dipped in milk. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

One quart of Graham flour, two teaspoonfuls of 
Breadmaker's Ba.i- ing Powder, a piece of butter the size 
of a walnut, one tgg, one tablespoonful of sugar, one- 
half teaspoonful of salt, milk enough to make a batter as 
^u,vi, oe f^r f/riddl«- rakpR. Bake in muffin-rings, about 
twenty minutes, in a qirfck oven. 



LKBSONS IN BREADMAKING. 



23 



RICE MUFFINS. 

Two cups of cold boiled rice, one pint of flour, one 
teaspoon of salt, one tablespoon of sugar, two teaspoons 
of Breadmaker's Baking Powder, one-half pint of milk, 
three eggs. Mix into a smooth and rather firm batter, 
and bake as above. 

OATMEAL MUFFINS. 

One cup oatmeal, one and a half pints flour, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, two teaspoonfulsof Breadmaker's Bak- 
ing Powder, one pint of milk, one tablespoonful of lard, 
two eggs. Mix smoothly into a batter rather thmner 
than for cup cakes, fill the muffin rings two-thirds full 
and bake in a hot oven. 

BAKING POV/DER BISCUIT. 

Take one quart of flour, two teaspoonfuls of Bread- 
maker's Baking Powder, mix thoroughly, then rub in 
butter or lard the size of an egg, and wet with milk, 
stirring with a spoon till thick enough to lay on the 
moulding-board. Cut thin and bake in a quick oven. 

CRUMPETS. 

1 Two eggs, a teaspoonful each of salt and sugar, 
three teaspoonfuls of Breadmaker's Baking Powder, one 
quart of milk, three pints of flour. Mix into a stifi 
batter and bake in greased muffin rings on a hot greased 
griddle. 

2 Two pints flour, one and a half teaspoonfuls of 
sugar, one teaspoontui of salt, two teaspoonfuls of 
Breadmaker's Baking Powder, two eggs, one pint of 
milk one teaspoonful of cinnamon. Mix thoroughly, 
adding the eggs and milk last. Stir to a stiff batter, 
and bake on a hot, well greased grid'lle. 



^■'ai--.;'* ii^-row V. « 






ii 1*1 



24 



THE BREADMAKER S COOKING LESSONS, 



WAFFLES. 

Two eg^s, one pint of milk, half ounce of butter, one 
cake of the Breadmaker's Yeast, salt to taste, and flour 
enough to fuini a thick batter. Warm the milk and 
butter together ; beat the eggs, and add them by turns 
with the flour ; stir in the yeast and salt. When they 
are light, heat your waffle-irons and butter them, pour 
in some of the batter, and brown them on both sides ; 
butter them, and serve them with or without sugar and 
cinnamon. 



lilM 



THE BREADMAKER'S KNEADING PAN. 




•* Let any one use it and then try to do without «7."-— Practical 
Housekeeper. 

This magnificent pan is just the right shape to make 
the work easy, and just the right size. The above 
picture represents the most convenient kitchen utensil 
which can be conceived. It is useful in every case 
where flour is used, whether for pastry, puddings, bis- 
cuits, or that best of all our foods, viz., bread. We 
have spared no effort to make it just the thing long 



LESSONS IN BREADMAKING. 



25 



sought for. It is stamped from the heaviest sheet tin 
made, turned in a lathe, and afterwards heavily re-tinned, 
and will last a lifetime with ordinary care. Our desire 
is to make home-breadmaking easy, always successful 
and popular. 

The best and most careful of breadmakers may some- 
times fail, but* in ninety-nine cases out of every hundred 
it is because of a change of temperature before fermen- 
tation is complete. In the Breadmaker's Kneading Pan 
we have a light, strong vessel, properly shaped, with a 
ventilated cover, and when used as directed, with good 
judgment, there is almost absolute insurance against a 
batch of sour bread. 

The chief advantage of using such a pan is the ease 
with which the flour for a batch of bread may be warmed 
on the back of a kitchen stove or cooking ran^e. With 
a little care to stir and intermix it from the bottom, the 
whole mass becomes warm, and when a place is hoUcved 
out to admit of the yeast being poured in there to rise, 
you have summer heat from September till July. All 
you want in addition to this is covering to suit the room 
and the weather, so that the temperature may not be 
allowed to cool down. 

Successful breadmaking is not a matter of luck. It 
is a matter of temperature, so far as fermentation is 
concerned. If a setting of yeast cools down below the 
proper heat, that, of itself, is death to the formation of 
the yeast cells until the temperature is raised again. 
Therefore, provide yourself with suitable conveniences. 
But what we have said applies to any sort of a pan 
that suits your taste, means or convenience. We want 
all breadmakers to use The Breadmaker's Yeast and 
Breadmaker's Baking Powder intelligently and suc- 
cessfully. Sold by grocers and storekeepers. Price, |i. 



26 



THE BREADMAKER's COOKING LESSONS. 



i' 



i 



I 



11 



I 



m 



LESSONS IN CAKEMAKING. 



THE BREADMAKER'S BAKING POWDER. 

The many forms of cookery taught in this book of 
lessons, so far as they pertain to Recipes in which bak- 
ing powder is one of the ingredients, the Breadmaker's 
Baking Powder is the kind for which the quantities is 

arranged. 

The most unerring standard by which to measure 
human progress, otherwise called civihzation, is by the 
methods of preparing food. Nature abounds in food, 
and is unlimited in its powers to supply the material. 
Domestic chemistry teaches us how to prepare and 
cook it, so that it may be easily assimilated and go to 
repair the wastes of efforts of all kinds commonly called 
work— and it is to such as work that food means most. 

Food is the first necessity of mankind. Its economic 
preparation is, therefore, of prime importance. 

Chemistry, as applied to foods, is the poetry of the 
science, and the kitchen is the laboratory where its 
problems are wrought out. 

That one staple of human food, viz., wheat flour, is 
made to assume a multitude of pleasing and nutritious 
forms, in nearly all of which it must be light, porous or 
spongy. Kitchen Chemistry furnishes the means : It 
is carbonic acid gas in every case. But this harmless 
gas is generated or set free by two distinct methods :— 
pirst, by true yeast fermentation, as in bread, as de- 
scribed in the foregoing pages on this subject. Second, 
by the action of one chemical upon another, as in the 



LESSONS IN CAKEMAKING. 



27 



Breadmaker's Baking Powder, but in both cases the 
effect is the same— the first requiring time, depending 
on a certain even temperature, the other possessing the 
advantage of being instant and independent of tempera- 
ture. Baking powder has therefore the advantage m 
a hundred forms of cookery, where fermentation is 

impossible. 

An article of everyday use, such as a baking powder, 
should of necessity be exactly what science permits. 
Alum is not allowable, because it leaves a residue after 
its leavening action which is constipating— that is to 
say, it is an astringent. If phosphatic acid (the ashes of 
bones) is used, the residue is plaster of paris, and who 
wants to eat that ? Fancy a man carrying about a few 
accumulated pounds of that cheap ingredient. 



SUGGESTIONS TO BEGINNERS. 

In making Cake, it is very desirable that the materials 
be of the finest quality. Sweet, fresh butter, eggs, and 
good flour are the first essentials. The process of put- 
ting together is also quite an important feature. It would 
be well to observe the following directions : Never allow 
the butter to oil, but soften it by putting it in a moder- 
ately warm place before you commence other prepara- 
tions for your cake ; then put it into an earthen dish, 
(tin, if not new, will discolour your cake as you stir it), 
and add your sugar; beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream ; add the yolks of the eggs, then the milk, and 
lastly the beaten whites of the eggs and flour. Spices 
and liquors may be added after the yolks of the eggs are 
put in, and fruit should be put in with the flour. 

ihe oven snouiu uc picnj nv^t l.^J^ ^'U,^ — , 

moderate for larger. To ascertain if a large cake is 



■faUcf-nf.'ifiriif-K 



28 



THE BREADMAKER's COOKING LESSONS. 



I 






III! 11 



':S 



sufficiently baked, pieice it with a broom-straw through 
the centre ; if done the straw will come out free from 
dough ; if not done, dough will adhere to the straw. 
Take it out of the tin about fifteen minutes after it is 
taken from the oven (not sooner), and do not turn it 
over on the top to cool. 

The importance of a thoroughly pure and reliable 
baking powder is also essential to success, and we 
have much pleasure in recommending the Breadmaker's 
Baking Powder. 

FROSTING, 

One-fourth granulated sugar, moisten thoroughly with 
water sufficient to dissolve it when heated ; let it boil 
until it threads from the spoon, stirring often ; while the 
sugar is boiling, beat the whites of two eggs till they are 
firm ; then when thoroughly beaten, turn them into a 
deep dish, and when the sugar is boiled, turn it over the 
whites, beating all together rapidly until of the right 
consistency to spread over the cake. Flavour with 
lemon if preferred. This is sufficient for two loaves. 

ICING. 

Whites of four eggs, one pound powdered white sugar, 
lemon, vanilla, or other seasoning. Break the whites 
into a broad, clean, cool dish. Throw a small handful 
of sugar upon them, and begin whipping it in with long, 
even strokes of the beater. A few minutes later, throw 
in more sugar, and keep adding it at intervals until it is 
all used up. Beat perseveringl}^ — always with a regular 
sweeping movement of the whisk— until the icing is of a 
smooth, fine and firm texture. Half an hour's beating 
should be sufficient, if done well. If not stiff enough, 
put in more sugar. A little practice will teach you 
when ycur end is gained. If you season with lemon- 
juice, allow, in measuring your sugar, for the additional 



LESSONS IN CAKIiMAKING. 



2d 



liquid. Lemon juice, or a very little tartaric acid 
whitens the icing. Use at least a quarter of a pound of 
sugar for each egg. 

This method of making icing was taught us by a 
confectioner, as easier and surer than the old plan of 
beating the eggs first and alone. We have used no other 
since our first trial of it. The frosting hardens in one- 
fourth the time required under the former plan, and not 
more than half the time is consumed in the manufacture. 
We have often iced a cake but two hours before it was 
cut, and found the sugar dry all through. 

Pour the icing by the spoonful on the top of the cake 
and near the centre of the surface to be covered. If the 
loaf is of such a shape that the liquid will settle of itself 
to its place, it is best to let it do so. If you spread it, 
use a broad-bladed knife, dipped in cold water. If it is 
as thick with sugar as it should be, you need not lay on 
more than one coat. You may set it in a moderate 
oven for three minutes, if you are in great haste. The 
better plan is to dry in a sunny window, where the air 
can get at it, and where there is no dust. 

Colour icing yellow by putting the grated peel of a 
lemon or orange in a thin muslin bag, straining a little 
juice through it, and squeezing it hard into the egg and 
sugar. 

Strawberry-juice colours a pretty pink, as does also 
cranberry-syrup. 

ALMOND ICING. 

Whites of four eggs, one pound sweet almonds, one 
pound powdered sugar, a little rose-water. Blanch the 
almonds by pouring boiling water over them and strip- 
ping off the skins. When dry, pound them to a paste, 
a few at a time, in a Wedgewood mortar, moistening 
it with rose-water as you go on. When beaten fine and 
smooth, beat gradually into icing, prepared according 



30 



THE BREADMAKEr's COOKING LESSONS. 



in! 

;T I i: 



1 i! 



to the foregoing recipe. Put on very thick, and, when 
nearly dry, cover with plain icing. This is very fine. 

ICE CREAM ICING FOR WHITE CAKE. 

Two cups pulverized sugar boiled to a thick syrup ; 
add three teaspoonfuls vanilla ; when cold, add the 
whites of two eggs well beaten, and flavoured with two 
teaspoonfuls of citric acid. 

BREAKFAST CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, two cups of milk, two-thirds of a 
cup of melted butter, three eggs, one quart of flour, two 
and a half teaspoonfuls of Breadmaker's Baking Powder. 
Bake twenty minutes. 

CORN CAKE. 

Two cups of white Indian meal, one cup of flour, one 
pint of water, one egg, two-thirds cup of sugar, two 
teaspoonfuls Breadmaker's Baking Powder, a small 
piece of butter and a little salt. 

RYE BREAKFAST CAKES. 

Two cups of rye meal, one-half cup molasses, a little 
salt, a cup and a half of sweet milk to mix it very soft, 
and one and a half teaspoonful of Breadmaker's Baking 
Powder. Bake at once in a roll, pan or muffin rings. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

1. Two well-beaten eggs, two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
two cups prepared cocoanut, one cup sugar, one-half cup 
of milk, one teaspoonful Breadmaker's Baking Powder. 
Soak the cocoanut in milk. 

2. Three-fourths of a pound of flour, half a pound of 
butter, mixed together ; one pound of sugar and the 
yolks of five eggs mixed together ; mix these with one 
larsre cocoanut -, beat the whites of the ef c's to a froth 
and put in one teaspooiiful of Breadmaker's Baking 
Powder. This is sufficient for two loaves. 



LESSONS IN CAKEMAKING. 



31 



GOLD CAKE. 

Two cups not quite full of flour, the yolks of four 
eggs, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of sweet milk, one 
and a half teaspoonfuls of Breadmakcr's Baking Powder. 
Flavour to taste. 

SILVER CAKE. 

Two cups of flour, the whites of four eggs, one cup of 
sugar, one-half cup of sweet milk, one and a half tea- 
spoonful of Breadmakcr's Baking Powder. Flavour 
to taste. 

CHOCOLATli CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup ol 
sweet milk, three and a half cups of flour, three whole 
eggs and the yolks of two more, two teaspoonfuls of 
Breadmaker's Baking Powder. Frosting for same — 
whites of two eggs beaten with sugar quite stiff, three 
tablespoonfuls grated chocolate, teaspoonful of vanilla. 

LILY CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter mixed together ; 
one cup of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of Breadmaker's 
Baking Powder, one cup of corn starch, two cups of 
flour, whites of five eggs. Flavour, and frost with 
chocolate frosting. 

Annie's chocolate cake. 
One full cup of butter, two cups of flour, two cups ot 
sugar, one cup (not quite full) milk, one teaspoonful of 
Breadmaker's Baking Powder, five eggs, leaving out 
the whites of two; rub butter and sugar together, 
add eggs, two-thirds of the milk, then flour, then the 
rest of the milk. While hot, spread with an icing 
made of the whites of eggs, one and a half cups of 
pulverized sugar, two teaspoonfuls essence vanilla, and 
six tablespoonfuls of vanilla chocolate. 



32 



THE BREADMAKER S COOKING LESSONS. 



V 



DELICIOUS CAKE. 

Two cups of white sugar, one cup of butter, one cup 
of milk, three eggs, one and a half tcaspoonful of Eiead- 
maker's Baking Powder, three cups of fiour ; bea«" butter 
and sugar together, add the yolks of the eggs, then the 
beaten whites. In all cases in using Breakmaker's 
Baking Powder, it should be first thoroughly combined 
and sifted with the flour. 

CORN STARCH CAKE. 

The whites of three eggs, one half cup of corn starch, 
one half cup of butter, one half cup of milk, one tea- 
spoonful of Breadmaker's Baking Powder, one cup of 
sugar, one cup of flour. Fl vour with lemon. 

BUTTERMILK CAKE. 

Three cups of pulverized sugar, on,; cup of butter, 
one cup of buttermilk, six eggs, one tcaspoonful of 
soda, three cups of flour. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

Five cups of flour, one cup of butter, one cup of 
coffee, one cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one cup 
of raisins, and a tcaspoonful of soda. 

JELLY CAKE. 

Three eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of flour, one 
tcaspoonful of Breadmaker's Baking Powder dissolved 
in two tablespoonfuls of milk ; beat all well together. 
When baked spread with jelly. 

TUMBLER CAKE. 

Three tumblers of sugar, one tumbler of butter, one 
tumbler of sweet milk, four eggs, five tumblers of flour) 
one tcaspoonful baking powder, a tumbler of citron. 
Flavour with lemon. 



LESSONS IN CAKEMAKING. 



33 



•I 



PARK STREhl CAKE. 

Whites and yolks of four eggs beaten separately, two 
cups of white sugar, one cup of mili^., three cups of 
flour, one half cup butter, two teaspoonfuls of Bread- 
maker's Baking Pov;der. Flavour to taste. 

HICKORY NUT CAKR. 

One cup of sugar, one half cup butter, one half cup 
milk, two cups flour, one teaspoonful baking powder, 
one large cup raisins, one cup nuts broken up, two eggs. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Nearly three cups flour, two cups of sugar, three- 
fourths of a cup of sweet milk, whites of six eggs, one 
teaspoonful of baking powder, half a cup of butter. 
Lemon for flavouring. 

WHITE SODA BISCUIT. 

Rub two teaspoonfuls of the Breadmaker's Baking 
Powder and two tablespoonfuls of lard into one quart of 
pastry flour. Dissolve one teaspoonful of salt in two 
teacupfuls of new milk, and mix rapidly with as few 
strokes as possible. The dough should be very soft, 
if too thick add more milk. Roll out lightly, cut into 
cakes half an inch thick and bake in a quick oven. 

MINUTE BISCUIT. 

One pint sour, or buttermilk, one teaspoonful soda, 
two teaspoonfuls melted butter, flour, to make soft 
dough— just stiff enough to handle. Mix, roll, and cut 
out rapidly, with as little handling as may be, and bake 
in a quick oven. 

GRAHAM BISCUIT. 

Three cups Graham flour, one cup white, three cups 
milk, two tablespoonfuls lard, one heaping tablespoon- 
ful white sugar, one saltspoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls 



34 



THE BREADMAliER's COOKING LESSONS. 



liiililll 




m 



of the Breadmaker's Baking Powder. Mix ana bake as 
you do the white soda biscuit. They are good cold as 
well as hot. 

GRAHAM WHEATLETS. 

One pint Graham flour, nearly a quart boiling water 
or milk, one teaspoonful salt. Scald the flour, when 
you have salted it, into as soft a dough as you can 
handle. Roll it nearly an inch thick, cut in round 
cakes, lay upon a hot buttered tin or pan, and bake 
them in the hottest oven you can get ready. Everything 
depends upon heat in the manufacture of these. Some 
cooks spread them on a hot tin, and set them on a red- 
hot stove! Properly scalded and cooked, they are as 
light as puff's, and very good ; otherwise they are flat 
and tough. Split and butter while hot. 

SWEET RUSK. 

One pint warm milk, half cup of butter, one cup of 
sugar, two eggs, one teaspoonful salt, two Breadmaker's 
Yeast Cakes. Make a sponge with the milk, yeast, 
and enough flour for a thin batter, and let it rise over 
night. In the morning add the butter, eggs, and sugar, 
previously beaten up well together, the salt, and flour 
enough to make a soft Jough. Mould with the hands 
into balls of uniform size, set close together in a pan, 
and let them rise until very light. After baking, wash 
the tops with a clean soft cloth dipped in molasses and 
water. 

BUTTER CRACKERS. 

One quart of flour, three tablespoonfuls butter, half 
teaspoonful soda dissolved in hot water, one saltspoon- 
ful salt, two cups sweet milk. Rub the butter into the 
Hour, or, what is better, cut it up with a knife or chop- 
per, as you do in pastry ; add the salt, milk and soda, 
mixing well. Work into a ball, lay upon a floured 



LESSONS IN CAKEMAKING. 



35 



)ake as 
cold as 



f water 
•, when 
ou can 
round 
d bake 
rything 
Some 
1 a red- 
are as 
are flat 



: cup of 

maker's 
, yeast, 
ise over 
d sugar, 
id flour 
e hands 
1 a pan, 
ig, wash 
sses and 



ter, half 
Jtspoon- 
into the 
or chop- 
nd soda, 
L floured 



board, and beat with the rolling-pin half an hour, turn- 
ing and shifting the mass often. Roll into even sheet 
a quarter of an inch thick, or less, prick deeply with a 
fork and bake hard in a moderate oven. Hang up in a 
muslin bag two days to dr}'. 

JOHNNY CAKE. 

One teacupful sweet milk, one teaspoonful salt, two 
teaspoonfuls Brcadmaker's Baking Powder, one table- 
spoonful melted butter. Enough meal to enable you to 
roll it into a sheet half an inch thick. Spread upon a 
buttered tin, or in a shallow pan, and bake it forty 
minutes. As soon as it begins to brown, baste it with a 
rag tied to a stick and dipped in melted butter. Repeat 
this five or six times until it is brown and crisp. Break 
— not cut up — and eat for luncheon or tea, accompanied 
by sweet or buttermilk. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 

One quart milk, two cakes Breadmaker's Yeast, one 
tablespoonful butter, melted ; two eggs, well beaten • 
one teaspoonful salt. Flour to make a good batter. 
Set the rest of the ingredients as a sponge over night, 
and in the morning add the melted butter and eggs. 

CORN-MEAL FLAPJACKS. 

One quart sour or butter milk, two eggs, beaten light 5 
one teaspoonful salt, one teaspoonful soda, dissolved in 
hot water ; two tablespoonfuls molasses, one tablespoon- 
ful lard, melted ; half cup flour. Meal to make a batter 
a trifle thicker than flannel cakes. If you have not sour 
milk, use sweet new milk and one and a half teaspoonful 
of the Breadmaker's Baking Powder, omitting the soda. 

FRUIT SHORTCAKE= 

Two quarts of flour, two tablespoonfuls lard, two 
tablespoonfuls butter, two cups sweet cream, two eggs, 






,-isei:i5::--*-^-r.-;c3:-:L^,"T'aaif.-^-;;«i-jtuiiaaH«s^^ ■ 



36 



THE BREADMAKER'S COOKING LESSONS. 



well beaten; four tcaspoonfuls Breadmaker's Baking 

Powder, one teaspoonful salt. Chop up the shortening 

in the salted flour, after first thoroughly mixing and 

sifting the baking powder with the flour, as for pastry. 

Add the eggs to the milk ; put all together, handling as 

little as may be. Roll lightly and quickly into two 

sheets, the one intended for the upper crust fully half an 

inch thick, the lower less than this. Lay the latter 

smoothly in a well-greased baking pan, strew it thickly 

with raspberries, blackberries, or, what is better yet, 

huckleberries; sprinkle four or five tablespoonfuls of 

sugar over these, cover with the thicker crust, and bake 

from twenty to twenty-five minuets, until nicely browned, 

but not dried. Eat hot for breakfast with butter and 

powdered sugar. 

It should be mixed as soft as can be rolled. The 
shortcake is very nice, made with the common •' black- 
caps " or wild raspberries. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

One quart flour, three tablespoonfuls butter, one large 
cup sour cream or very rich " loppered " milk, one egg, 
one tablespoonful white sugar, one teaspoonful soda, 
dissolved in hot water; one saUspoonful salt. Proceed, 
in mixing and baking, as with the huckleberry shortcake, 
except that, instead of putting the berries between the 
crust, you lay one sheet of paste smoothly upon the 
other, and bake until done. While warm— not hot — 
separate these and put a layer of berries between the 
crusts, covering with powdered sugar. 

ONE, TWO, THREE, FOUR, CUP CAKE. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups flour, four 
eggs, one cup sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of Bread- 
maker's Baking Po\vder. Bake in a loaf, or roll thinner 
find use for jelly cake, 



■'S 


mi 




eg! 
bo 




bel 




ici: 




/ 


\ 


cm 




fill 


•''• 


cal 




thi 




CU] 


i 


Mi 
tat 

to|: 


f 


( 


% 


poi 
ligl 


t. 




1 


C'.l} 




rai: 


ij 

1 

1 


till 
inij 


1 





LESSONS IN CAKEMAKING. 



37 



CREAM CAKE. 

Two cups powdered sugar, two-thirds cupful of butter, 
four eggs, half cupful of milk, two teaspoonfuls of Bread- 
maker's Baking Powder, three cups of flour Bake m 
thin layers as for jelly cake, and spread between them 
when cold the following mixture :^IIalf pint of milk, 
two small teaspoonfuls of corn-starch, one egg, one tea- 
spoonful vanilla, half cup sugar. Heat the milk to boil- 
ing, and stir in the corn-starch wet with a little cold 
milk ; take out a little and mix gradually with the beaten 
egg and sugar ; return to the rest of the custard, and 
boil, stirring constantly until quite thick. Let it cool 
before you season, and spread on cake. Season the 
icing also with vanilla. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Two cups powdered sugar, half cup butter, three eggs, 
one cup milk, three cups flour, two and a half teaspoon- 
fuls Breadmaker's Baking Powder. Bake as for jelly- 
cake. Filling— One grated cocoanut. To one half of 
this add whites of three eggs beaten to a froth, and one 
cup of powdered sugar. Lay this between the layers. 
Mix with the other half of the grated cocoanut four 
tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, and strew thickly upon 
top of cake. 

LOAF COCOANUT CAKE. 

One pound sugar, half pound butter, six eggs, half 
pound floin-, one pound finely grated cocoanut, stirred 
lightly in the last thing. Bake immediately 

RAISED CAKE. 

Three cups of light dough, three eggs, two lioaping 
cups of sugar, one ctip of butter, one cup of chopped 
raisins; put in a dish together and work with hand 
till well mixed ; spice to taste. Put in pans and bake 
immediately. 



;j-^HSKfciriWi^ii^uj_*r^*«ijBaes»(aiyB3Ktaa^ 



38 



THE BREADMAKER's COOKING LESSONS. 



ill 



CHEAP SPONGE CAKE. 

Three eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of flour, into 
which mix one teaspoonful of cream-tartar and one-half 
teaspoonful of soda dissolved in three teaspoonfuls of 
warm water. The last thing add a dessertspoonful of 
vinegar, stirring briskly. Bake about twenty-five minutes 
in not too hot an oven. The batter will be very thin. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Eleven eggs, four cups of sugar, four cups of flour ; 
beat the yolks and sugar together, add the whites well 
beaten, stir the flour in as lightly as possible. 

CIRCLE CAKE. 

One egg, one cup of sugar, two cups of flour, one- 
third of a cup of butter, one-half cup sweet milk, two 
teaspoonfuls Breadmaker's Baking Powder. Flavour 
with rose of lemon. 

PANCAKES. 

One pint of milk, three eggs, one teaspoonful of salt ; 
mix to a very thin batter, drop in hot lard. To be eaten 
with wine and sugar. 

I* 

CHAl'IN CAKE. 

Six cups of flour, one cup of butter, three cups of 
sugar, two cups of milk, two eggs, one teaspoonful of 
soda, one pound of chopped raisins. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

1. One quart of flour, one egg, one-half cup sugar, one 
cup sweet milk, six teaspoonfuls melted lard, two tea- 
spoonfuls of Brcadmiker's Baking Powder. 

2. One cup sour milk, one cup of sugar, one egg, one 
teaspoonful of soda, tv/o tablf^spoonfuls melted butter, g 
little salt and spice. Mix very soft, 



LESSONS IN CAKEMAKING. 



39 



COOKIES 

1. Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, two eggs, 
one-half cup of milk, one and one-half teaspoonful of 
Breadmaker's Baking Powder ; flour to roll stiff. 

2. One and a half cups of brown sugar, one cup of 
butter, two eggs, one cup of currants, two great spoon- 
fuls of sweet milk, small teaspoonful of soda ; cinnamon, 
cloves, nutmeg to taste. 

WAFERS. 

One quart of flour, four ounces of lard or butter, a 
little salt. Mix with cold water; pound with a rolling 
pin twenty minutes. To be rolled out very thin, and 
cut with a doughnut cutter To be eaten with jelly. 

RAISIN CAKE. 

One-half cup of butter, one-half cup of sugar, two 
eggs, one-half cup of sweet milk, three cups of flour, 
one cup of raisins, one teaspoonful of Breadmakef's 
Baking Powder. 'V*! 

MOLASSES GINGERBREAD. 

1. Two cups of Orleans molasses, one cup of sugar, one 
cup of sour milk, one-half ci^p of butter, one cgir, one 
teaspoonful of soda, tablespoonful of ginger, sufficient 
flour for a thick battter. 

2. Two cups of molasses, one-half cup of butter, one 
cup of sour cream, one teaspoonful of ginger, two tea- 
spoonfuls of soda, five and a half cups of flour. 

HARD GINGERBREAD. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three eggs, one 
teaspoonful and a half of the Breadmaker's Baking 
Powder. Season with ginger and nutmeg. Flour 
enough to roll. 



„ijem 



40 



THE BREADMAKEr's COOKING LESSONS. 



tiiii 



i 



Hi 



GINGER SNAPS. 

Bring to a scald one cup of molasses, and stir in one 
tablespoonful of soda, pour it, while foaming, over one 
cup of sugar, one egg, one tablespoonful of ginger, 
beaten together ; then add one tablespoonful of vinegar. 
Flour enough to roll stirred in as lightly as possible. 

GINGER NUTS. 

I. Half pound of butter, half pound of sugar, one pint oi 
molasses, two ounces ground ginger, two tablespoonfuls 
of cinnamon, as nmch flour as will form a dough, hall 
an ounce of ground cloves and allspice mixed. Stir the 
butter and sugar together; add the spice, ginger, 
molasses, and flour enough to form a dough. Knead it 
well, maVe it out in small cakes, bake them on tins in a 
very moderate oven. Wash them over with molasses 
and water before they are put in to bake. 

2 Half pound of butter, two pounds of flour, one 
pint of molasses, two eggs, six ounces ground ginger, 
three ounces ground allspice, one ounce powdered cinna- 
mon. Mix in the same manner as for gingerbread. 
Roll out the dough into ropes about half-inch thick ; 
cut these transvv-^rsely into pieces, which roll into small 
balls ; place thesp. at a little distance apart, upon 
greased baking sheets, and flatten them down with the 
palm of your hand ; when thf; sheet is full, wash them 
over the tops with a brush dipped in thin molasses, 
and bake in a moderate oven. 



GINGERBREAD SQUARES. 

Half pound of moist sugar, two ounces of ground 
ginger, one pound of flour, half pound of butter, half 
pound of treacle. Put the butter and treacle into a jar 
near the fire ; when the butter is melted mix it with the 
flour while warm, and spread the mixture thinly on 



.1 



LESSONS IN CAKKMAKING. 



41 



buttered tins, mark it in squares before baking, and as 
soon as baked enough separate it at the marks before it 
has time to harden. Time to bake, fifteen minutes. 

HONEYCOMB GINGERBREAD. 

Half pound of flour, half pound of the coarsest brown 
sugar, quarter pound of butter, one dessertspoonful of 
allspice, two dessertspoonfuls of ground ginger, the peel 
of half a lemon grated, and the whole of the juice ; mix 
all these ingredients together, adding about half a 
pound of treacle so as to make a paste sufficiently thin 
to spread upon sheet tins. Beat well, butter the tins, 
and spread the paste very thinly over them, bake it in a 
rather slow oven, and watch it till it is done ; withdraw 
the tins, cut it in squares with a knife to the usual size 
of wafer biscuits (about four inches square), and roll 
each piece round the fingers as it is raised from the tin. 

DROP GINGER CAKES. 

Put m a bowl one cup of brown sugar, one of molas- 
ses, one of butter, then pour over them one cup of boil- 
ing water, stir well ; add one eg^^, well beaten, two 
teaspoonfuls of soda, two tablespoon fuls each of ginger 
and cinnamon, a half teaspoonful of ground cloves, five 
cups of flour. Stir all together and drop with a spoon 
on buttered tins ; bake in a quick oven, taking care not 
to burn them. 

NEW YORK CAKE. 

One pound sugar, half pound butter, one pound cur- 
rants, washed clean and dredged with flour, three cups 
flour, four eggs ; nutmeg and cinnamon to taste ; half 
teaspoonful soda dissolved in three tablcspoonfuls milk. 

DREADMAKER's CAKl':. 

Half pound butter, one pound flour, eight eggs, one 
and a half teaspoonful of Bveadmaker's Baking Powder, 
one pound sugar, half pint milk, 



42 



THE BREADMAKER's COOKING LESSONS. 




'|! i liiS 


: 


!i 1 1 




■ \ 




1 ■ ifi 1 




-If ) ) 

i'll II 1 




1 


■ i 



SCHOOL CAKE. 

Two and a half cups powdered sugar, three-quarters 
cup of butter, one cup sweet milk, three cups flour, four 
eggs, one lemon, juice and rind, one small teaspoont'ul 
soda. Bake in a square or oblong tin, and frost with 
whites of two eggs beaten stiiT with powdered sugar. 

COLEMAN CAKE. 

One pound of flour, one pound white sugar, half pound 
butter, rubbed with the sugar to a very light cream, six 
eggs, one cup sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of Bread- 
maker's Baking Powder sifte.. into the flour, one tea- 
spoonful powdered cinnamon, one tablespoonful rose- 
water. Flavour the frosting with lemon-juice. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup butter, the yolks of five 
eggs and whites of two, one cup of milk, three and a 
half cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of Breadmaker's 
Baking Powder sifted into the flour. Bake in jelly-cake 

tins. 

Mixture for Filling — White of three eggs, one and a 
half cups sugar, three tablespoonfuls grated chocolate, 
one teaspoonful vanilla. Bake .well together, spread 
between the layers*, and on top. Bake. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

Light — One cup white sugar, half cup butter, half cup 
milk, whites "of three eggs, one and a half teaspoonful 
Breadmaker's Baking Powder, two cups flour. 

Dark — Half cup brown sugar, quarter cup butter, half 
cup molasses, quarter cup milk, half nutmeg, one tea- 
spoonful cinnamon, half teaspoonful allspice, one and a 
half 4:easpoonful of Breadmaker's Baking Powder, two 
cups flour, yolks of three eggs. Butter your mould, and 
put in the dark and light batter in alternate table- 
spoonfuls. 



LESSONS IN CAKEMAKING. 



43 



larters 
r, four 
oontiil 
5t with 

[SLT. 

pound 
im, six 
Bread- 
ne tea- 
1 rose- 



of five 
J and a 
naker's 
ly-cake 

2 and a 

Dcolate, 

spread 



lalf cup 
poonful 

:er, half 
3ne tea- 
e and a 
ier, two 
lid, and 
3 table- 



LEMON CAKE. 

One cup butter (packed), two scant cups of sugar, ten 
eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, one small' cup 
of milk, juice and rind of a lemon, one small teaspoonful 
of soda, flour to make tolerably thin batter (between two 
and three cups) ; of some qualities of flour three cups 
will be needed. Bake in a quick oven. 

CARAMEL CAKE. 

Three cups of sugar, one and a half cups butter, one 
cup milk, four and a half cups flour, five eggs, three 
teaspoonfuls of Breadmaker's Baking Powder sifted and 
mixed with flour. 

Mixture for Filling.—White of three eggs, one and a 
half cup sugar, three tablespoonfuls grated chocolate, 
one teaspoonful vanilla. Bake well together, spread 
between the layers, and on top Bake. 

mother's SPONGE CAKE. 

^ Twelve eggs, the weight of the eggs in sugar, half 
their weight in flour, one lemon, juice and rind. Beat 
yolks and whites very light, the sugar into the former 
when they are smooth and stiff"; next, the juice and 
grated peel of the lemon, then the flour; lastly the 
beaten whites, very lightly. Bake in whatever shape 
you will. Be careful that your oven is steady. It is a 
good plan to line the pans in which sponge-cake is 
baked with buttered paper, fitted neatly to the sides 
and bottom. 

CHOCOLATE ICING (sIMPLE). 

One-quarter cake chocolate, one-half cup sweet milk, 
one tablespoonful corn starch, one teaspoonful vanilla! 
Mix together these ingredients, with the exception of 
the vanilla : boil it two minutes (after it has fairly con^e 
to a boil), flavour, and then sweeten to taste with 
powdered sugar, taking care to make it sweet enough. 



X&?saBKSfn:?sss!V7X'iKa^ai^ 



44 



THE BREADMAKEr's COOKING LESSONS. 



WW'' 




«? 




CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

Two cups brown sugar, one cup molasses, one table 
spoonful (heaping) of butter, three tablespoonfuls flour. 
Boil twenty-five minutes ; then stir in half a pound of 
grated chocolate wet in one cup of sweet milk, and boil 
until it hardens on the spoon, with which you must stir 
it frequently. Flavour with a teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Marian's cake. 
One cup of sugar, one-half cup butter, three eggs, 
one-half cup sweet milk, one and a half teaspoonful 
Breadmaker's Baking Powder sifted with flour, two 
and a half cups flour. Bake in jelly-cake tins, and fill 
with jelly or chocolate. A simple and excellent cake. 

POUND CAKE. 

One pound sugar, one pound flour, three-quarters of a 
pound of butter, nine eggs, two teaspoonfuls Breadmaker's 
Baking Powder. Cream the butter and sugar with great 
care ; beat the yolks and whites separately ; sift the baking 
powder well through the flour. Add the flour last, 

GEORGE WASHINGTON CAKE. 

Three cups sugar, two cups butter, five eggs, one cup 
milk, four cups flour, three teaspoonfuls Breadmaker's 
Baking Powder. Mix as usual and stir in at the last, 
a half pound currants well washed and dredged, one- 
quarter of a pound of raisins seeded and chopped 
fine, then floured, a handful of citron sliced fine, cinna- 
mon and nutmeg to taste. Fruit-cake takes longer to 
bake than plain, and the heat must be kept steady. 

MARTHA WASHINGTON CAKE. 

One pound butter, one pound sugar, one pound flour, 
oiv pnr<Tc t«jn riinq Ronr cream or milk, one erated nut- 
meg, one teaspoonful powdered cinnamon, one table- 
spoonful rose-water, one teaspoonful soda dissolved in 
hot water, and stirred into the milk just before adding 



LESSONS IN CAKEMAKING. 



4b 



e table 
Is flour, 
ound of 
and boil 
lust stir 
nilla. 

ee eggs, 
spoonful 
»ur, two 
, and fill 
cake. 

ters of a 
3 maker's 
ith great 
e baking 
ast, 

one cup 
dmaker's 
the last, 
^ed, one- 
chopped 
e, cinna- 
onger to 
ady. 

ind flour, 
ited nut- 
ne table- 
solved in 
re adding 



the latter to the cake. Cream the butter and sugar, put 
with them the yolks whipped light, then the cream and 
spice, next the flour, then the rose-water and a double- 
handful of citron cut in slips and dredged ; finally, the 
beaten whites of the eggs. Stir all well, and bake in a 
loaf or in a " card," using a square shallow baking pan. 
This is a good cake and keeps well. 

WEDDING CAKE. 

One pound powdered sugar, one pound butter, one 
pound flour, twelve eggs, one pound currants, well 
washed and dredged, one pound raisins seeded and 
chopped, half pound citron cut in slips, one tablespoon- 
ful cinnamon, two teaspoonfuls nutmeg, one teaspoonful 
cloves, one wineglass brandy. Cream the butter and 
sugar, add the beaten yolks of the eggs, and stir all 
well together before putting in half of the flour. The 
spice should come next, then the whipped whites stirred 
in alternately with the rest of the flour, lastly the brandy. 
The above quantity is for two large cakes. Bake at 
least two hours in deep tins lined with well buttered 
paper. The icing should be laid on stiff" and thickly. 
This cake, if kept in a cool, dry place, will not spoil in 
two months. Test the cakes well, and be sure they are 
quite done before taking them from the oven. 

FRUIT-CAKE (pLAINER). 

One pound powdered sugar, one pound flour, three- 
quarters of a pound of butler, seven eggs, half a pound 
of currants— washed, picked over, and dredged ; half a 
pound of raisins— seeded and chopped, then dredged ; 
quarter of a pound of citron cut into slips, one tea- 
spoonful nutmeg, one teaspoonful cinnamon, one glass 
brandy. Cream butter and sugar ; add the beaten yolks, 
then the spice and the whipped whites alternately with 
the flour : the fruit and brandy last. 



46 



THE LJREADNIAKEr's COOKIMG LESSONS. 




^ CORN-STARCH CAKE. 

Two cups sugar and one cup butter rubbed to a 
cream, one cup milk, two cups flour, three eggs, whites 
and yolks beaten separately; half cup corn-starch, three 
teaspoonfuls Breadmaker's Baking Powder, sifted well 
through the flour. Sift the corn-starch with the flour, 
and add the last thing. Bake in small tins and eat 
while fresh. They dry in two or three days and become 
insipid, but are very nice for twenty-four hours after 
they are baked. 

MOLASSES COOKIES. 

One cup butter, two cups molasses, one teaspoonful 
cloves, one tablespoon ful ginger. Sufficient flour to 
make stiff batter, not dough. Mould with the hands 
into small cakes, and bake in a steady rather than in a 
quick oven, as they are apt to burn. 

MACAROONS. 

Four ounces of almonds, four spoonfuls of orange- 
flower water, one pound of white sugar, wafer paper, 
four eggs. Blanch the almonds, and pound with the 
orange-flower water ; whisk the whites of four eggs to a 
froth, then mix it, and a pound of white sugar sifted 
with the almonds, to a paste ; and laying a sheet of 
wafer-paper on a tin, put it on in different little cakes, 
the shape of macaroons. Bake from fifteen to twenty 
minutes. 

NEW YEAR CAKES. 

One and a quarter pound sugar, one pound butter, 
half pint cold water, two eggs, three and a quarter 
pounds flour, one teaspoonful soda dissolved in hot 
water, four tablespoonfuls caraway seed sprinkled 
through the flour. Rub the butter, or, what is better, 
chop it up in the flour ; dissolve the sugar in the water ; 
mix all well with the beaten eggs, cut in square cakes, 
or with an oval mould, and bake quickly. 



LESSONS IN CAKEMAKING. 



47 



3ed to a 
s, whites 
ch, three 
fted weii 
:he flour, 
and eat 
I become 
urs after 



spoonful 

flour to 

le hands 

:han in a 



orange* 
X paper, 
with the 
5ggs to a 
ar sifted 

sheet of 
le cakes, 
3 twenty 



i butter, 
quarter 
I in hot 
iprinkled 
s better, 
e water ; 
re cakes, 



WHITE CAKE. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup sweet milk, 
whites of five eggs, three cups flour, two toaspoonfuls 
Breadmaker's Baking Powder, sifted and mixed with 
the flour. 

" mother's" cookies. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three eggs, well 
1 eaten ; a quarter teaspoonful soda dissolved in boiling 
water, one teaspoonful nutmeg, half a teaspoonful 
cloves. Flour to make a soft dougli, just sti.F enough 
to roll out. Try two cups to begin with, working it in 
gradually. Cut in round cakes, stick a raisin or currant 
in the top of each, and bake quickly. 

PLAIN FRUIT .CAKES. 

One pound of flour, a quarter pound of dripping, two 
teaspoonfuls of Breadmaker's Baking Powder, a little 
allspice and salt, a quarter pound of currants, a quarter 
pound of white sugar, and a half pint of milk. Mix into 
the flour the baking powder and salt, then with the 
hands rub the dripping in the flour until it resembles 
bread-crumbs. Add the currants, allspice and sugar. 
Take care that the ingredients are well mixed ; pour in 
the milk and mix with a wooden spoon. Grease a 
quartern tin auvl pour the mixture into it ; bake for one 
hour. 

JELLY ROLLS. 

Three eggs, half cupful of butter, one and a half tea- 
spoonful of Breadmaker's Baking Powder, two-thirds 
of a cup of pulverized sugar, one cupful of flour, a little 
salt. Bake in shallow pans — a dripping pan well but- 
tered is good for this purpose ; put in the dough till it is 
about half an inch thick ; take it carefully from the tins 
when baked and lay on a cloth ; spread jelly over it 
evenly with a knife; roll while hot ; if this is not done 
the cake will crumble. 



48 



THE BREADMAKER S COOKING LESSONS. 



m 



m 



•Id 




SPONGE JELLY CAKE (rOLLED). 

Five egf^s, one cup of sugar, one cup of flour, and one 
teaspoonful of Breadmaker's Baking Powder. Beat the 
yolks and sugar to a cream, add the whites, beaten to a 
stiff froth ; then the flour, in which the baking powder 
has been mixed. Bake in a dripping-pan. When done, 
turn out on a cloth, spread jelly on the bottom of the 
cake, and roll from the side. 

ROLL JELLY CAKE. 

One p.nd a half cups of brown sugar, three eggs, one 
cup of milk, two cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of Bread- 
maker's Baking Powder, one teaspoonful of lemon or 
vanilla essence. Thoroughly beat the eggs and sugar 
together ; mix the baking powder with the milk, stirring 
in the flavouring also ; next mix in the flour ; spread 
them upon a long pan, and as soon as done spread jelly 
on the top and roll. 

SPONGE JFLLY CAKE. 

Three eggs, four ounces of sugar, one cup of flour, one 
dessertspoonful of Breadmaker's Baking Powder, three 
tablespoonfuls of boiling water. Mix the baking powder 
with the flour, and beat each of the eggs separately. 
Then mix all the ingredients together, and bake in jelly 
tins in a brisk oven. When cool, chocolate frosting put 
between the cakes makes them very delicious, or jelly, 
if preferred. 

PLUM CAKE. 

One pound each of butter, sugar and flour, ten eggs, 
one pound of raisins, half pound each of currants and 
sliced citron, a teaspoonful of ground cloves, one of mace, 
one nutmeg, the juice and grated peel of a lemon, half 
a coffee cup of molasses. Beat the buttei tiJi it is soft 
and creamy, then add the sugar. Beat the whites and 
the yolks of the eggs separately ; stir the yolks in with 



LESSONS IN CAKfiMAKING. 



49 



, and one 
Beat the 
aten to a 
J powder 
len done, 
m of the 



5ggs, one 
af Bread- 
lemon or 
nd sugar 
:, stirring 
; spread 
ead jelly 



lour, one 
ler, three 
g powder 
parately. 
e in jelly 
sting put 
, or jelly, 



ten eggs, 
ants and 

of mace, 
lion, half 

it is soft 
hites and 
s in with 



the butter and sugar ; stir the flour in gradually (having 
first mixed one heaping teaspoonful of cream of tartar 
with it). When the flour is about half worked in, put 
in half a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in as little water 
as is possible to use; then add the whites of the eggs, 
and lastly the fruit, which is well covered with the rest 
of the flour. Bake in a large tin, with a buttered paper 
on the sides as well as on the bottom ; it will need to 
bake slowly for five hours. Then, do not attempt to 
lift it from the tin until it is perfectly cold. This should 
be made several days before it is used. 

A RICH PLUM CAKE. 

One pound of fresh butter, one pound of powdered 
loaf sugar, one pound of flour, one and a half pounds of 
currants. ' , unds candied peel, one pound sweet 
almond: ^ ,vo ounces allspice, a quarter ounce of cinna- 
mon (both these in powder), ten eggs, a glass of brandy. 
Beat the butter to a cream, and add the sugar; stir till 
li<fht, and put in the spices ; in fifteen minutes work in 
the eggs, two or three at a time, then a(M the orange, 
lemon, and citron peel and currants, and mix them well 
with the almonds, blanched and rut small ; last of all 
add the flour and brandy ; bake in a hot oven for three 
hours, in a tin hoop with plenty of paper underneath. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT-CAKE. 

Butter, flour, strawberries, sugar, wliipped cream. 
Make a rich, short crust with butter and flour, allowing 
one ounce more of flour than butter ; bake in flat tins of 
equal size (the pastry when baked should be dbout an 
inch thick) ; open the short-cake, butter it well, and 
cover one-half with a layer of strawberries previously 
mixed with sugar ; have alternate layers of berries and 
pastry, finishing with the former, over Avhich place a 
layer of whipped cream. 



:i|i 



50 



THE BREADMAKER S COOKING LESSONS. 



■ w 






lijii I!!! 



11 



!l ,■ HI 



LADY FINGERS. 

Four ounces of sugar, four yolks of eggs, mix well ; 
three ounce flour, a pinch of salt. Beat the four whites 
and stir in gradually ; butter a shallow pan and squirt 
the mixture through a piece of stiff paper rolled up; 
dust with sugar and bake in a not too hot oven. 

WHITE BRIDE CAKE. 

Take one pound of butter, put it into a basin and beat 
it with your hand till it comes to a fine cream, then add 
one and one-quarter pounds of pulverized sugar, and 
beat together until it is fine and white ; tlien add one 
pound of sifted flour, give it a stir and then add the 
whites of fourteen eggs; continue to beat it and add an- 
other pound of flour and fourteen more whites ; beat 
well ; mix all together, paper your dish around the sides 
and bottom, put in your batter and bake in a moderate 
oven. 

SHREWSBURY CAKE. 

One pound of sugar, pounded cinnamon, a little 
grated nutmeg, three pounds of flour, a little rose water, 
three eggs, melted butter. Sift the sugar, cinnamon 
and nutmeg into the flour (which must be of the finest 
kind ; add the rose water to the eggs, and mix with the 
flour, etc., then pour in enough melted butter to make 
it a good thickness and roll out. Mould well, roll thinly, 
and cut into such shapes as you like. 

ROCK BISCUITS. "* 

Half a dozen eggs, one pound of white sugar, nine 
ounces of flour, a quarter pound of currants ; beat 
the eggs until very light ; add the sugar, and mix 
thoroughly; add the flour and currants, gradually mix- 
ing all the time. Place upon greased tins in the form 
of smaU pieces of rock. Tliis is best done with a for^k, 
J3ake half an hour, and keep in a tin canister, 



Lessons in cakemaking. 



51 



OATMEAL BISCUITS. 

Six ounces of flour, three ounces of oatmeal and white 
sugar, three ounces of butter, enough soda to lie on a 
five cent piece, one large egg. Melt the butter and add 
to the flour, oatmeal, sugar and soda ; mix thoroughly ; 
put a tablespoonful of cold water into a basin and break 
the egg into it and whisk slightly ; add this to the other 
ingredients and mix smoothly ; turn on to a well-floured 
board, roll as thinly as possible and cut into shapes with 
a cake cutter. Grease a baking tin, and bake for about 
twenty minutes. 

LEMON BISCUITS. 

One pound of flour, half a pound of white sugar, 
a quarter pound of fresh butter, one ounce of lemon 
peel, one tablespoonful of lemon juice, three eggs. Add 
the butter to the flour and rub finely with the hands ; 
mince the lemon peel and stir it and the sugar into the 
former mixture; well whisk the eggs and lemon juice, 
and thoroughly mix the whole. Drop from a spoon to 
a greased baking tin about two inches apart. Bake for 
twenty minutes. 

COCOANUT BISCUITS. 

Six ounces of cocuanut grated, nine ounces of white 
sugar, three eggs. Whisk the eggs for about twelve 
minutes, than sprinkle in the sugar gradually, lastly the 
cocoanut ; form with your hands into little pyramids ; 
place upon white paper, and the paper on tins. Bake 
in a slow oven until slightly brown. 

HARD BISCUITS. 

Two ounces of butter, skimmed milk, one pound ot 
flour. Warm the butter in as much skimmed milk as 
will make a pound of flour into a very stiff" paste, beat 
it with a rolling-pin, and work it very smooth. Roll it 
thin and cut it into round biscuits ; prick them full of 
holes with a fork. About six minutes will bake them. 



:ihlil 



52 



THE BREADMAKEr'S COOKING LESSONS. 




Iliil 



BISCUIT POWDER. 

Dry plain biscuits in a slow oven. Roll them with a 
rolling pin. Then grind in a marble mortar till reduced 
to powder. Keep in a tin caniiJter. 

RICE BISCUIT?. 

Half a pound of ground rice, five ounces of white 
sugar, four of butter, two eggs. Well beat the butter ; 
stir in gradually the ground rice and sugar ; well whisk 
the eggs and add to the other ingredients. Roll out on 
the paste board and cut into shapes with paste cutter. 
Place upon greased tin and bake a quarter of an hour 
in a sloia oven. 

PLAIN AND VERY CRISP BISCUITS. 

One pound of flour, yolk of one egg, some milk. Make 
into a very stiff paste; beat it well, and knead till quite 
smooth ; roll very thin, and cut into biscuits. Bake 
them in a slow oven till quite dry and crisp. • 

BISCUITS OF FRUIT. 

To the pulp of any scalded fruit put an equal weight 
of sugar sifted. Beat it two hours, then put it into little 
white paper forms, dry in a cool oven, turn the next day, 
and in two or three days box them. 

PANCAKES IN VARIETY. 

On cold winter mornings pancakes of all kinds hold 
an important place at the breakfast table ; the buck- 
wheat cake the most cherished of ail. When properly 
made, this is the most delicious of all the griddle cakes, 
but it has been against it when made from yeast or risen 
over night that it was difficult to make light and sweet, 
and that disagreeable effects frequently followed its eat- 
ing. It is found that by the use of the Breadmaker's 
Baking Powder to raise the batter these objections 
have been entirely overcome, and the buckwheat cakes 



LESSONS IN CAKEMAKING. 



53 



im with i 
1 reduced 



of white 
le butter ; 
^ell whisk 
d11 out on 
;te cutter, 
f an hour 



k. Make 

till quite 

:s. Bake 



al weight 
into little 
next day, 



inds hold 
he buck- 
properly 
lie cakes, 
t or risen 
id sweet, 
d its eat- 

A 1 '_ 

t^iiiicXivui S 



are maile a most delicious food, light, sweet, tender and 
perfectly wholesome, that can be eaten by any one with- 
out the slightest digestive inconvenience. Once tested 
from the following recipe, no other will be used : — Two 
cups of buckwheat, one cup of wheat flour, two table- 
spoons of Breadmaker's Baking Powder, one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt, all sifted well together. Mix with milk 
into a thin batter and bake at once on a hot griddle. 

The purest and richest syrup is made by dissolving 
sugar in the proportion of throe pounds of sugar to one 
pint of water. Many persons prefer the flavour of syrup 
made of Orleans sugar to that made of the white. 

Rice griddle cakes are very delicious. The rice is 
cooked until perfectly soft, drained dry, mashed with a 
spoon until the grains are well broken up. For each 
cupful of rice take two eggs, one pint of milk, one heap- 
ing teaspoonful of Breadmaker's Baking Powder, one- 
half leaspoonful of salt, and flour enough to make a thin 
batter. 

For hominy cakes take two cupfuls of cooked hominy, 
and crush it with a potato-masher until it is a smooth 
mass. Add one level teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoon- 
fuls of Breadmaker's Baking Powder, and one cupful of 
flour. Stir together ; then add by degrees one quart of 
milk, and lastly three well beaten eggs. Bake in thin 
cakes. 

Very delicate and delicious cakes are made by allow- 
ing two teaspoonfuls of Breadmaker's Baking Powder 
and one-half teaspoonful of salt to one quart of milk, 
and sufficient corn meal, mixing all into a smooth, thin 
batter ; no eggs or butter are used for these. The cakes 
bake quickly to a rich deep brown, and ar^' extremely 
tender and light. 

A very delicious, sweet pancake is made by taking 
one pint of sweet milk, four eggs, two tablespoonfuls of 



t'i'il i 



54 



THE BREADMAKEr's COOKING LESSONS. 



powdered sugar, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, 
one teaspoonful of Breadmaker's Baking Powder, and 
flour enough to make a moderately thin batter. Beat 
the eggs, whites and yolks separately, until well frothed; 
stir the butter, sugar, and one cupful of flour, into which 
the baking powder has been mixed, into the yolks, then 
add the milk. If needed, add more flour Bake in small 
cakes, butter each one as it comes from the fire, place 
four in a pile, with very thin layers of any kind of sweet 
jelly between, and powdered sugar over the top. They 
should be baked very thin and four served to each person. 



PIES, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC. 



i! iii 


liiiiii 


■'' Uwm 


1 i 


1 

,1 



ill 



'li 






PIES. 



Of all the people who prate about the unhealthfulness 
of pies, we never yet came across one who really lived 
up to their doctrine. As a boy, it always seemed to us, 
that those who had most to say were willing to attempt 
the largest piece. A nicely made pie gives zest and 
variety to-the meal, and as the rule is to serve it only at 
dinner, there is not much danger of its being very harm- 
ful, A pie should never be made with a tough basswood 
crust, for unless a pie is really exquisite it is a sorrowful 
affair, and a disappointment. 

PIE CRUST. 

I. The crust is the soul of a pie, and as it is on the 
outside it is easy to tell what manner of pie a pie is as 
to quality by lookmg at it. The shortening of pie crust 
should be of fine flavoured butter and firm lard. To 



J 






.r 



PIES, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC. 



65 



d butter, 
/der, and 
ir. Beat 

frothed ; 
to which 
ilks, then 
; in small 
re, place 

of sweet 
3. They 
h person. 



rc. 



thfulness 
illy lived 
led to us, 
I attempt 
zest and 
it only at 
sry harm- 
)asswood 
sorrowful 



is on the 

pie is as 

pie crust 

ard. To 



commence with, the lard should be chopped into the 

sifted flour until it is as fine as the flour itself. Then 

mass it with very cold water into a ball and roll thin, 

flouring your kneading board. Butter the sheets, dust 

very lightly with flour, and roll into a scroll. Again 

roll into sheets, again dust with flour, and roll thin 

again until the butter all disappears. Butter your pie 

plates or tins, lay the bottom crust, which in some kind 

of pics should be glazed as follows to prevent soaking 

up the juices and leaving it clammy and raw. Glaze: 

— Brush the crust with a well beaten white of an egg. 

If the same glaze is brushed over the top crust it gives 

a lovely brown colour, which for some kinds of pie is 

desirable. A top crust pie, such as mince and fruits, 

should never be made without seasoning and spicing to 

taste before the crust is put on. If this is left to be 

done after cooking, as some are accustomed to do, the 

pie has no charms for yours truly, and the same may be 

said of any pie whether it has an upper crust or not. 

2. One quart of flour, one-half pound of sweet lard, 
one-half pound of new sweet butter, one cup of very 
cold water, a little salt. 

CUSTARD I'lE. 

One pint of milk, three eggs, a little salt, three table- 
spoons of sugar. Flavour with vanilla or nutmeg and 
essence of lemon. If the milk is scalded it will require 
but two eggs to a pint. 

RICE PIE. 

For two pies, take two tablespoons of rice; wash and 
put it into a farina boiler with a quart of milk ; cook 
until perfectly soft. Let it cool ; add three eggs, well 
beaten, with three t.iblespoons of sugar and one of 
butter; a little salt, cinnamon and a few stoned raisins. 
Bake with under crust, 



56 



THE BREADMAKER'S COOKING LESSONS. 



N'l 



1; 



CREAM PIE. 

One pint of milk, scalded ; two tablespoons of corn 
starch, three tablespoons of sugar, yolks of two eggs. 
Wet the starch v/ith a little cold milk ; beat the eggs 
and sugar until light, and stir the whole into the scald- 
ing milk. Flavour with lemon or vanilla, and set aside 
to cool Line a plate with pie crust and bake ; fill it 
with cream, and cover it with frosting made of the 
whites of eggs, beaten dry, with two tablespoons of 
sugar. Bake a delicate brown. 

CREAM PIE ELEGANTE. 

For one pie, beat together one cup sugar, one-half 
cup corn starch, two eggs. Stir into one pint hot milk; 
when well cooked and cool, flavour and put between 
crusts that have been baked and are cold. 

CRUST FOR CREAM PIE, 

One pint flour, one-half teacup lard, one-quarter tea- 
cup ice water, teaspoon salt. Bake upper and lower 
crusts in separate plates, and put the cream between. 

PLAIN APPLE PIE. 

Line your plate with pastry; fill with sliced sour 
apples, put on sufficient sugar to sweeten ; flavour with 
a trifle of cinnamon and allspice ; cover with medium 
top crust, crimping it to the bottom crust. Bake until 
the apples are thoroughly cooked. This pie is best 
cold. 

LINCOLN PIK. 

One pint stewed sour apples, sifted ; l)utter size of an 
egg, two tablespoons flour ; grated rind and juice of a 
lemon ; yolks of three eggs, beaten. Sweeten to taste. 
Bake with lower crust, and when done spread a meringue 
of the whites of three eggs, beaten with {.\\rvv. tablespoons 
iuigar over the top, and brown in oven. 



Pins, PUDDINGS. TARTS, tTC. 



57 



PUMPKIN PIK. 

1. One cup stewed pumpkins, one coffee cup milk, 
three eg^^s, piece of butter size of a walnut, two tea- 
spoons cinnamon, one teaspoon ginger, a little salt and 
pepper. Sweeten with molasses. 

2. A pumpkin, one good cupful of molasses ; to a whole 
pumpkin allow three pints of rich milk, four eggs, some 
salt, one teaspoonful ground ginger, a little cinnamon, 
brown sugar to taste, crust. Prepare the pumpkin by 
cutting into small pieces. Stew rapidly until it is soft 
and the waiter is stewed out, then let it remain on the 
stove to simmer all day. When well cooked add the 
molasses, and cook all down until nearly dry. Then sift 
through a colander, it wdl nearly all go through if 
properly cooked. Then add the milk, spices and eggs. 
Too much spice destroys the flavour of the pumpkin. 
Sweeten to taste. Then bake in a crust the same as for 
custard. Let it cook until of a dark brown colour. This 
is a very wholesome dish. 

SQUASH PIE. 

One full cup stewed squash, one scant cup sugar, one 
pint milk, two eggs, two tablespoons melted butter, a 
little salt, ginger and cinnamon. Bake in a bottom 
crust the same as pumpkin pie. 

PIE PLANT PIK, 

Two cups pic plant, one tablespoon water, one-hal^ 
cup sugar, a little butter. Crust : one pint flour, one- 
halt cup lard ; pinch salt ; water to roll out. 



COr.OANUT PIE. 

One cup powdered sugar, one-half cup butter, four 
eggs, one cup grated cocoanut, one quart rnilk. Put 
the cocoanut with the butter and sugar ; add the milk 
and eggs. Makes two pies. Crust as for custard pie. 



...-»«*»'•' 



58 



THE breadmaker's cooking lessons. 



ill 



^^1! 



iiii 



A VERY RICH LEMON PIE. 

1. One large lemon, one teaspoon of butter (heaping) ; 
one and one-half cup of sugar, three eggs, one heaping 
teaspoon of flour, one-half glass brandy. Grate the 
yellow part of the rind and squeeze the juice of the 
lemon ; beat the butter and sugar to a cream with the 
yolks of the eggs; then stir in the grated rind and juice, 
flour and brandy; lastly whip and stir in the whites. 
Bake with an under crust. 

2. One cup of sugar, one tablespoonful butter, one 
egg, one lemon, juice and rind, one teacupful of boiling 
water, and one tablespoonful corn starch. Dissolve the 
corn starch in a little cold water, then stir it into the 
boiling water ; cream the butter and sugar, then pour 
over them the hot mixture ; cool, add the lemon juice, 
rind and beaten egg ; bake with or without upper crust. 

3. Three eggs, one large spoonful of butter, one small 
cup of sugar, juice and rind of a lemon. Beat the 
butter and sugar until like cream, beat the yolks and 
whites of the eggs separately, grate the lemon peel 
and strain the juice, add the yolks and lemon to the 
butter and sugar, and mix well. Then bake in two 
open tins of paste. Beat the whites to a stiff meringue, 
with three tablespoonfuls of sugar and a few drops of 
rose water. When the pies are done spread the meringue 
over and return to the oven for five minutes. 

MINCE PIES. 

Two pounds lean fresh beef, boiled, and when cold, 
chopped fine; one pound beef-suet, cleared of strings 
and minced to powder; five pounds apples, pared and 
chopped; two pounds raisins, seeded and chopped; one 
pound sultana raisins, wiished and picked over; two 
pounds currants, washed in four waters and carefully 
picked over (otherwise look out for dirt) ; three-quarters 



s. 



PIES, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC. 



59 



(heaping) ; 
ne heaping 
Grate the 
iice of the 
n with the 
I and juice, 
the whites. 

butter, one 
1 of boiling 
)issolve the 
it into the 
, then pour 
emon juice, 
ipper crust. 

r, one small 
Beat the 
t yolks and 
lemon peel 
:mon to the 
ake in two 
ff meringue, 
3W drops of 
he meringue 



when cold, 
d of strings 
3, pared and 
hiopped; one 
I ovcf ; two 
nd carefully 
ree-quarters 



of a pound of citron, cut up fine; two tabkspoonfuls 
cinnamon, one powdered nutmeg, two cablespoonfuls 
mace, one tablespoonful cloves, one ta'.)lespoonful all- 
spice, one tablespoonful fine salt, two and a half pounds 
brown sugar, one quart brown sherry, one pint best 
brandy. As this mince will keep for months, carefully 
cover and add more liquid if it dries out. 

MOCK MINCE MEAT. 

Six soda crackers, rolled fine ; two cups cold water, 
one cup molasses, oae cup brown sugar, one cup sour 
cider, one and a half cup melted butter, one cup raisins 
seeded and chopped, one cup currants, two eggs beaten 
light, one tablespoonful cinnamon and allspice mixed, 
one teaspoonful nutmeg, one teaspoonful cloves, one 
teaspoonful salt, one black pepper, one wineglass of 
brandy. Almost any one not in the st-cret would take 
this for tiie real mince meat pie, and, therefore, it is 
good any time of the year 

PEACH PIE. 

Puff or short crust, peaches and sugar. Line a dish 
with a nice crust, skin the peaches, remove the stones, 
and put the fruit into the dish, with a little sugar and 
water. Cover with crust and bake a golden brown. 

ORANGE PIE. 

Three eggs, three-quarter cup of white sugar, two 
tablespoonfuls butter, one orange — juice and half the 
grated rind ; half lemon — juice and grated peel ; nut- 
meg to taste. Cream the butter and sugar, beating in 
the orange and lemon until very light ; add the beaten 
yolks, fill two pastry shells, and bake. Beat tlie whites 
stiff with two tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, and when 
the pies are done, spread over them, returning to the 
oven for three or four minutes. 



m% 






60 



THE BREADMAKER's COOKING LESSONS. 




CHERRY PIE. 

Line the dish with a good crus^, and fill with ripe 
cherries, regulating the quantity of sugar you scatter 
over them by their sweetness. Cover with upper crust 
and bake; eat cold, with white sugar sifted over the top. 

Blackberry, raspberry, plum, currant,- gooseberry, 
damson, strawberry, rhubarb, apple, peach and pear pie, 
all made the same. 

RIPE GOOSEBERRY PIE. 

Top and tail the berries ; line your dish with crust, 
and fill with berries, stewing white sugar among them. 
Cover and bake. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Line pie tin with a good crust ; make a nice custard, 
leaving out the whites of two eggs, which beat to a stiff 
froth, and spread on top of the pie as soon as baked ; 
return to the oven after sprinkling granulated sugar 
over the pie, and leave a moment, or until the pie is a 
delicate brown. 



PUDDINGS. 

TO BOIL A PUDDING IN A BAG. 

Dip the bag (which should be made of thick cotton 
or Hnen) in hot water, and rub the inside with flour 
before putting in the pudding ; when done, dip the bag 
in cold water and the pudding will turn out easily. 
Always put a plate on the bottom of the kettle to keep 
the pudding from burning. 

TO STEAM A PUDDING. 

Put it into a tin pan or earthen dish, tie a cloth over 
the top and set it into a steamer, cover the steamer 
closely; allow a little longer time than you do for 
boiling. 



PIES, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC. 



61 



with ripe 
)u scatter 
iper crust 
ir the top. 
Doseberry, 
1 pear pie, 



vith crust, 
ong them. 



:e custard, 
it to a stifil 
as baked ; 
ited sugar 
he pie is a 



lick cotton 
with flour 
Up the bag 
out easily, 
tie to keep 



. cloth over 
he steamer 
:ou do for 



PLUM PUDDING. 

Pick and stone half a pound of Malaga raisins, wash 
and dry the same quantity of currants, chop, not too 
fine, three-quarters of a pound of beef suet, put it in a 
convenient basin, with six ounces of sugar, two ounces 
of mixed candied peel sliced, three ounces of flour, 
three ounces of bread-crumbs, a little grated nutmeg, 
four eggs, a gill of water, or perhaps a little more, to 
form a nice consistence ; butter a mould, put a piece 
of white paper over the top and round the sides, tie it 
in a cloth, boil for four hours in plenty of water ; when 
done, remove the cloth, turn it out of tiie mould, take 
the paper ofl' the sides and top, and serve with sweet 
sauce round ; it may also be boilc4 in a cloth. 

The above is only for Christmas. Now for any othci 
day. 

Put into a basin one pound of flour, one of chopped 
suet, half a pound of mixed fruit, a little spice, grated 
lemon-peel, three ounces of sugar, two eggs, half a pint 
of milk, or enough t(j make it a proper thickness, tie it 
in a cloth, boil four hours, turn it out, and serve with 
melted butter, or sweet sauce ; bread-crumbs instead of 
Hour is good, or half of each. 

A si:kii;s of ecoxomicat. i'rbr>'NGS. 
[Can be made either in a mould, basin, Lirt-dish, or tin cake-pan] 
Well butter either, fill lightly with any of the follow- 
ing ingredients: — Either stale buns, muffins, crumpe^^s, 
pastry, white or brown bread, shced and buttered, the 
remains of sponge-cakes, macaroons, ratafias, almond 
cake, gingerbread, biscuit of any kind, previously 
soaked. For a change with any of the above, you 
may intermix with either fresh or dried fruit or pre- 
serves, even plums, grated cocoa nut, etc. When your 
mould is full of either of the above, put in a basin a 



62 



THE BREADMAKER S COOKING LESSONS. 



t 




. « 


4 



Hi ill 



quarter t -aspGonful of eitlicr ginger, a little mixed spice. 
or cinnamon, if handy, grated orange, lemon, or a few 
drops of any essence you choose ; put in three eggs. 
which beat well, add three gills of milk for every quar- 
ter mould. When the above is well mixed, fill up 
nearly to the rim. It can be either baked or boiled, or 
pu^ into a saucepan one-third full of water, :^'ith the lid 
over, and let simmer for about an hour. Pass a knife 
round the inside of the basin or mould, turn out your 
pudding, pour over either melted butter witli a little 
sugar, the juice of a lemon or spirit sauce. 

FRUIT PUDDING, 

such as green gooseberry, is best made in a basin, the 
basin to be buttered And lined with the paste, rolling it 
round to the tliickness of half an inch ; then get a pint 
of gooseberries and three ounces of sugar ; af;er having 
made your paste, take half the fruit, and lay it at the 
bottom of your basin, then add half your sugar, then 
put the remainder of the gooselvriies in and the 
remainder of the sugar ; on that draw your paste to 
the centre, join the edges well together, put the cloth 
over the whole, tying it at the bottom, and boil in 
plenty of water. Fruit puddings, such as apples and 
rhubarb, should be done in this manner ; boil for an 
hour, take out of the saucepan, untie the cloth, turn out 
on a dish, or let it remain in the basin, and serve with 
sugar over. A thin cover of the paste may be rolled 
round and put over the pudding. Ripe cherriep, cur- 
rants, raspberries, plums, apples may be used in the 
same way, and require less sugar. 

BREAD PUDDINGS. 

I. An economical one, when eggs are dear. Cut some 
bread and butter very thin, place it in a pie-dish as 
lightly as possible, till three-parts full ; break into ^ 



"^l 


1 




bs 




br 




a 




in 




m. 


^H 


nic 


fl fl^ 


-a| 


nu 


'-^^1 


kir 




da 


;^^^^H 


cu 








ing 




on( 




tlie 




anc 




of 




ino 




I 


^^s^l 


she 




cru 


"'''^81 


thic 




spo 




one 




butt 









(or 




teas 




teas 



IS. 

nixed spice, 
n, or a few 
three eggs, 
every quar- 
:ed, fill up 
r boiled, or 
K'ith Die lid 
'ass a knife 
n out your 
ith a little 



. basin, the 
e, rolling it 
1 get a pint 
fjer having 
ly it at the 
jugar, then 
n and the 
ir paste to 
t the cloth 
nd boil in 
apples and 
boil for an 
:h, turn out 
serve with 
y be rolled 
lerriep, cur- 
ised in the 



Cut some 
pie-dish as 
eak into a 



PIES, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC. 



63 



■.jm 



basin one cQg, add two teaspoonfuls of flour, three of 
brown sugar; mix all well together, add to it by degrees 
a pint of milk, a little salt; pour over the bread; bake 
in an oven ; it will take about half an hour; this will 
make a nice size pudding for four or five persons. This 
may be done in twenty different ways, by varying the 
flavour of the ingrruient,-., as lemon-peel, orange-peel, 
nutmeg, cinnamon, or mix. J spice, or essences'^of any 
kind. For children, ,kim r :ik, or half milk and water, 
dates, or French plui: i, or figs, previously soaked and 
cut, may be added ; they are excellent for children. 

2, One pint bread crumbs, one quart milk, one heap- 
ing cup sugar, dessertspoonful butter, yolks four eggs, 
one lemon grated ; bake until done. Beat the whites of 
tlie eggs to a stiff froth, adding the juice of the lemons" 
and four tablespoonfuls of sugar; spread over the top 
of the pudding, and replace in the oven until slightly 
brown. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

Line a deep dish with sponge-cake, baked in thin 
sheets as for jelly cake, or, if not cor.^cnient, with pie 
crust rolled very thin. Fill with a mixture made by 
thickening one quart of boiling water with four table- 
spoonfuls of rice flour. Add to this the grated rind of 
one lemon and the juice of three, quarter of a pound of 
butter, and sugar to taste. 

MOLASSES DUMPLINGS. 

One pound of sifted flour, six ounces of good butter 
or suet freed from strings and powdered fine), three 
tcaspoonfuls of Breadmaker's Baking Powder, a half 
tcaspooful of salt. Make up the dough N.ali a little 
water, pick up lightly into balls and boil for twenty 
minutes in equal quantities of molasses and water. 
Drop them in as soon as the mixture boils. 



_4^***'**<**w 



84 



THE BREADMAKEr's COOKING LESSONS. 




ill '■' ■■ •■■ m 



W} 



STEAMED PUDDING. 

Two eggs, one cup each of sugar and sour milk, one 
half teaspoonful of soda, a little salt, dried currants, 
raisins or other fruit, and one cup of flour. Beat the 
eggs and stir in the sugar, dissolve the soda in milk, and 
mix in also the soda and salt ; then thicken with flour 
rather thicker than for cake, put into a two quart pan 
and set in the steamer and steam an hour and a half. 

STEAMED BATTER PUDDINGS. 

Stir together one-half cup of sugar and a tablespoonful 
of butter, then add two eggs well beaten, one cup of 
sweet milk, one-half teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, one cup of any kind of fruit, and flour 
enongh for a thick batter, steam in a three-quart pan 
for two hours, then serve warm with sauce made as 
follows:— One cup of white sugar, one-third cup of 
butter, and one teaspoonful of vanilla stirred to a cream. 

BAKED APPLE PUDDING. 

Fill a three-quarter earthen dish with pared and 
quartered apples ; sprinkle on these one cup of sugar, 
a' little cinnamon, fresh butter the size of a small egg, 
and one-half cup of water ; cover and bake thirty 
minutes. Roll a piece of chopped paste into a strip 
about two 'nches wide that will reach around the 
pudding dish ; roll the remainder to cover the dish. 
Take the pudding dish from the oven, slip the strip of 
puste between the apple and the dish and put on the 
top crust ; return to the oven and bake one hour. Serve 

ith creamy sauce. 

RICE PUDDING. 

On' eacup rice, one teacup sugar, one teacup raisins, 
small pice butter, a little salt, two quarts milk. Bake 
from an hour and a half to two hours. Serve with 
sauce. 



PIKS, PUDDINGS, TAUTS, ETC. 



65 



milk, one 
currants, 
Beat the 
milk, and 

with flour 

quart pan 

1 a half. 

ilespoonful 
ine cup of 
aspoonfuls 
, and flour 
quart pan 
e made as 
rd cup of 
:o a cream. 

pared and 
[) of sugar, 
small egg, 
lake thirty 
ito a strip 
.round the 
• the dish, 
the strip of 
put on the 
ur. Serve 



A\p raisms, 
I ilk. Bake 
Serve with 



THE ALMA PUDDING. 

Make half a pound of bread crumbs, which put in a 
basm ; add two ounces of sago, six ounces of fine rhon. 
ped suet, five ounces of sugar, four ounces of sultana 
ra.sms, six eggs, half a gill of rum, and ^ne tablespoonful 
of apricot jam. Well butter the interior of a pudding 
basin; add the mixture. Put some water in a sauce 
pan, set it on the fire; when beginning to boil, put in 
your basin, which ought to be a little more than half 
immersed in the water. Boil gently on a slow fire for 
two hours ; take it out, pass the knife between the basin 
and pudding, and serve. 

INDIAN PUDDING. 

Add to one quart boiling milk two well-beaten e-^. . 
three tablespoons Indian meal, one tablespoon flour a 
httle salt Bake three-quarters of an hour. Serve w th 
sugar and cream. ^vcwiin 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

One small cup tapioca, one quart of milk, one teaspoon 
of but er three tablespoons of sugar. .Soak the ta,Lca 
■ n water four or five hours, then add the milk ; flavo r 
w. h essence of lemon or anything else you prif 
Bitke slowly one hour. To be made the day before 1,^ 
wanted, and eaten cold with cream or milk and suga 

rjXtr'.""^ '"'""' ""'' -'"' ">- P^'- of ^ 

TAPIOCA AND COCOANUT PUDniNG * 

One cup tapioca, soaked over night ; one quart milk 

-oiks of four eggs, white of two; one cuplugar two 

. bespoons grated cocoanut. Bake one-half ho," 

ke rostmg of white two eggs, three tables, oos 

-'Sar, wo tablespoons grated cccoanut ; spread over 

, IH. pu,ldn,g when baked. Se, in the oven LT. °Z 



11 



gj THE BREADMAKERS C00K1«C LESSONS. 

Pare and core enough -PP'- '° « '^j ' ai'a pint ol 
each apple a bit of len»n pceh^ S aU . ^^ _^^_P^ ^^^ 

tapioca in one qnart of '"^^ ''^■. „^„, ti,e apples. 

amtlesalf,flavourw.thlemon, p. ^^^^,_ ^^^^^ 

Bake until apples are tender. Lat 

cream and sugar. ^_^^^^,^ 

• , «n-,ked in a teacup ot 
Three tablespoons tap.oca soaked ^^ 

.vater over night ; add one q t unrk^.^^ ^^^^^^^ ^^^^^ 

and boil twenty mnu,tes. 1 - "'^ ^ ;„,„ ,,,« milk; 

and one cup sugar ^^'^;,^, ,„,, stur, put in 

rbTttronhfaishrndpo...---'- -- 

^°^^- COCOANUT I-UDDING. 

one pint rich milK. two ^'^:^l^:Zi , 

whites of four «Kg^'f="'l''"tdThen boiling add the 
Put the milk over the fire, ana s _,^ ^^ 

!orn starch, wet wUh ;';;' ^^^ , -^.I'pa^te. Then 

stirring constantly, uM- mak ^^^^ 

t,i e from the fire and st.r m ^^^, ^^„ 

...th lemon or vaniHa, - w n h„htly^^ ^^^ ^^ ^ ^^ 

a crated cocoanut. lour nu 

place. Serve with soft custard. 

rHorOLATK PUDDING. 

fn^rscaldea; one and one-half squares 

One quart o^ "^ ^ ^^v^ cold milk, and st.r mto 
of chocolate, grated w V ^^^^^^^^^^ .^ ^^.^^^,,,a, 

the scalded mdk '''^^^^^^^^ ,|,, y^lks of six eggs, 
^,„,,.ntoapudd.ng^ch ,-^^^ Bake about 

well beaten, and six ta ^^ ^^^ ^^^^ 

threequarters of an hour, btai ^^^^ 

tMe^ll , ,,ad SIX tablespoons ^ugar. , H^. 



to a sti 

frosting 

brown. 



ff froth 



over the top 



set agaui m 



the oven until a light 



PIES, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC. 



ut intc 
pint oi 
ir ; add 
apples, 
d, with 

aciip of 
together 

ree eggs, 
lie milk ; 
IT, pvit in 
t. Serve 

n starch, 

httle salt. 

,<r add the 

the sugar, 

ite. Then 

Flavour 

ed add hall 

it in a oool 



half squares 
nd stir into 
s dissolved, 
of six eggs, 
Bake about 
^ of the eggs 
Sprcnd the 
, uiUil a light 



PUFFS. 

Two cups flour, two teaspoons Breadmakcr's Baking 
Powder, sifted together; add one and tliree-fourths cups 
sweet milk, one teaspoon melted butter, one-half cup of 
sugar, one egg ; stir quickly. Bake in patty tins twenty 
minutes. Serve with sauce. 

FRITTERS. 

Two cups flour, two teaspoons Breadmakcr's Baking 
Powder, two eggs, milk enough for stiff batter, a little 
salt. Drop iiilo boiling lard; fry light brown. Serve 
with cream and sugar or sauce. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Fill a dish with apples nicely sliced, sweeten them, 
add spices, nutmeg, a little lemon or vanilla, and cover 
with a crust ; set on top of the stove until the crust 
rises, then bake a nice brown. 

Crust — One quart flour, three teaspoons Breadmakcr's 
Baking Powder, piece of butter size of an egg, salt, milk 
enough to mix soft dough. 

Sauce for Above — One egg, one cup fine sugar, beaten 
very light ; pour a little boiling water over until the con- 
si^ency of cream. Flavour wish vanilla, and grate a 
little nutmeg on top. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

1. Take two cups of white sugar, a lump of butter the 
size of an egg, one well-beaten egg. Stir these together, 
then add a teacupful of boiling water ; put it in a sauce- 
pan until it thickens ; do not let it boil : flavour with 
lemon or vanilla. 

2. One cup sugar, two eggs ; beat the yolks very 
light, add sugar, mix tlioroughly, add the whites, 
beaten to a stifl trolh ; then add tvvo tablespoons 
brandy. Serve iis soon as made. 



68 



THE BREADMAKER'S COOKING LESSONS. 




PUDDING SAUCE (COLD). 

One heaping teaspoon of butter, one cup of fine sugar 
1 . r.f Qliprrv or madeira wine. Beat the Duucr 
rasXto ac;i:,and graciually beat .n the wine ; 
g:ate^°lUtle nutmeg over it before send.ng to table. 

WINE SAUCE (hot). 

Boil one-half pint of water with a tablespoon of flour, 
and strain on the sauce made as above just before send- 
"g,: to table. Set tt over the top of the tea-kettle three 
wr four minutes. 

FOAM SAUCE. 

One cup pulverized sugar, two eggs ; beat sugar and 
vo?ks to^t,er in a bowl; set in boiling w..ter ; stu 
until lot tl,en add whites beaten stiff. Put a small 
okceot butter and tablespoon of brandy tn a d.sh ; 
^o" over them the sugar and eggs just before servmg. 

CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE. 

One quart of milk, one-half box of gelatine soaked 
i„ one cup water ; four tablespoo,>s .rated chocola e, 
"ubled smooth in a little m,lk •, three eggs, vandla. 
Heat the m.lk until boiling, then add the other .ngted. 
Zs; boil five minutes. Pour into mould. Serve cold 
with sugar and cream or custard. 

CORN STARCH ULANC MANGE. 

One quart m,lk, one cup sugar, tl-- tablespoon^ corn 
starch -flavour with lemon or vandla. Bml the mi.K 
and su-ar together, flavour, then stir in corn s arch d s- 
Lived .n a httle cold milk. Boil and turn .n.o n,ould. 



PIES, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC, 



69 



e sugar, 
2 butter 
le wine ; 
ible. 

of flour, 
Dre send- 
ttle three 



;ugar and 
ater ; stir 
t a small 
1 a dish ; 
e serving. 

\e, soaked 
chocolate, 
s, vanilla, 
ler ingredi- 
Serve cold 



;poons corn 
)il the milk 
i starch dis- 
into mould. 



k 



TARTS, ETC. 

CURRANT AND RASPBERRY TART. 

To three cups of currants allow one of raspberries, 
mix well together before you fill the crust, and sweeten 
abundantly. Cover with crust and bake ; eat cold, with 
white sugar sifted over it. 

CURRANT TART 

is made as above, with more sugar. The most common 
fault of currant pie is extreme sourness. Small fruits 
should be looked over carefully before they are cooked. 
Currants are troublesome, but they must nevertheless 
be looked after warily on account of their extreme stem- 
miness. 

GREEN GOOSEBERRY TART. 

Top and tail the gooseberries. Put in a porcelain 
kettle with enough water to prevent burning, and stew 
slowly until they break. Take them off, sweeten well, 
and set aside to cool. When cold pour into pastry 
shells, and bake with a top crust of puff-paste. Brush 
all over with beaten egg while hot, set back i*- the oven 
to glaze for three minutes. Eat cold. 

DA«,5SON TART. 

Pick over the fruit, put ;n a dish lined with pastry, 
sweeten very freely, cover and bake. B. ;ish with beaten 
egg when done, and return to the oven ic a few minutes 
to glaze. 

CUSTARD. 

One quart of milk, four eggs, grated nutmeg, sugar to 
taste ; leave out whites of two eggs and beat them to a 
Stiff froth. When the custard is baked, spread the 
beaten whites on, sprinkle sugar, over, return to the 
oveii for a few moiiicnts, and you have an 
custard. 






.,;-:5ai»'* 



r i 



70 



THE BREAD. ^'AKER's COOKING LESSONS. 



CORN STARCH CUSTARDS. 

Put a pint of milk vn a frying pan, let it oome ;o tht 
boiliiig point, then add a pinch of sah and . .vo table- 
spoonfuls of corn starch. Serve with sugar and cream. 






CHOCOLATE CUSTARDS. 

Onr fourth oi a cake of chocolate, i>ne pint of bo'M 
water, >.i^; eggs, one quart of milk, one-haif cup of white 
sugar, t vvo fel spoon? of vanilla. Dissolve tlie chocolate 
in'^i vcrv little iuiik, stir into the boiling water and boil 
three minuLeF, When nearly cold add tlie beaten eggs, 
stii- ir.to the milk, flavour and pour in cups, set in boil- 
ing water and bake. 

CARAMEL CUSTARD. 

Put two dessert spoons of crushed sugar in a tin pan. 
Let it stand on the stove until it begins to brown, then 
stir constantly until it is a thick, black syrup. Pour 
it into a quart of scalding milk ; add six ounces of white 
sugar and the yolks of six eggs. Beat and pour into 
cups, set in a pan of hot water in the oven, and bake 
twenty minutes. 

COFFEE CREAM. 

Soak half an ounce of best gelatine in a little cold 
water half an hour; then place it over boiling water and 
add one gill of strong coffee and one gill of sugar; when 
the gelatine is well dissolved, take from the fire ; stir in 
three gills of cold cream and strain into your mould. 
Be sure that this has been previously with cold 

v^ater. 

ORANGE CREAM. 

Make the same as coffee cream, idiug one gill of 
orange juice and the grated rind of o r,range, which 
has been previously soaked in the orange : > ce while the 
„,.i.,tin« ic aicsnlvinj^ over the boiling at, and the 

beaten yolks of two eggs when you take off, and quite hot. 




.xvl! 




PIES, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC. 



71 



APPLE SNOW. 

Mash the pulp of three baked apples with silver 
spoon ; add one cup sugar, and the beaten white of an 
egg; flavour and beat one-half hour. Serve on soft 
custard or alone. 

BAKED CUSTARD. 

One quart milk, four well beaten eggs, four table- 
spoons sugar. Flavour to taste. Bake in moderate 
oven. 

APPLE CREAM. 

One cup thick cream, one cup sugar, beat till very 
smooth ; then beat the whites of two eggs, and add ; 
stew apples in water till soft ; take them from the water 
with a fork ; steam them if you prefer. Pour the cream 
over the apples when cold. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM. 

Half a cake of chocolate dissolved in a little hot 
water; put in a cup of milk, and when it boils have five 
eggs well beaten and mixed with two cups of milk ; pour 
the hot chocolate into the eggs and milk ; stir well and 
boil all together for a few minutes ; sweeten to your 
taste. To be eaten cold. 



COCOANUT PUFFS. 

The whites of three eggs, one cup of ground sugar, 
one teaspoonful of the extract of vanilla, one tablespoon- 
ful of corn starch, two cups of desiccated cocoamit. 
Beat the whites well, then add the sugar, and heat over 
steam, until a crust forms on the bottom and sides of 
the dish. Take it oil the steam, add the other ingredi- 
ents and drop in small pieces on buttered tins. Bake 
rather quickly to a light brown. 



/2 



THE DREADMAKEKS COOKING LESSONS. 



ANIMAL FOOD. 



i^r.s! ■' 



'if 

■ : ■ 





BEEF, PORK, MUTTON, VEAL, FISH, 
POULTRY, AND GAME. 

The question as to whether man belongs to the genus 
Carnivora, and should or should not eat flesh, is settled 
by the shape of his teeth, which proves incontestably 
that he should eat flesh— and generally he does it, no 
matter whose brother he offends. But grateful as are 
the "flesh pots" to civilized man, it does not follow that 
such a form of food conduces to the greatest physical 
endurance. The railway building uavvy, able to do 
twice the labour of ordinary working men, eats coarse 
bread, porridge and milk if he can get it. It is not the 
purpose of this book however to change the habits of a 
people, but rather to assist them to get the best for their 
money. Standing first on the list is 

BEEF, 
and of all forms in which it ma)- be served, perhaps 
Roast Beef is the most savoury and delicious. 

In purchasing beef secure meat of a deep red colour, 
with the fat mingled with the lean, giving it a mottled 
appearance. The fat will be firm, and the colour 
resembling grass butter. The smaller the breed, so 
much sweeter the meat. It will be better for eating if 
kept a few days. Veal, lamb and pork (being white 
meat) will not keep more than a day or two. 

The best pieces for roasting are the sirloin and rib 
pieces. The latter are oftenest used by small families. 
Make your butcher remove most of the bone, and skewer 
the meat into the shape of a round. If you roast in an 
oven it is a good plan to dash a small cup of boding 



ANIMAL FOOD. 



73 



SH, 

the genus 
is settled 
intestably 
oes it, no 
ful as are 
dIIow that 
: physical 
ble to do 
Its coarse 
is not the 
labits of a 
>t for their 



i, perhaps 

s. 

red colour, 

a mottled 
the colour 

breed, so 
Dr eating if 
eing white 

Din and rib 
ill families, 
and skewer 
roast in an 
p of boiling 



water over the meat in first putting it down, lettincr it 
trickle into the pan. This, for a season, checks 'the 
escape of the juices, and allows the meat to get warmed 
through before the top dries by said escape. If there is 
much fat upon the upper surface, cover with a paste of 
flour and water until it is nearly done. Baste fre- 
quently, at first with salt and water, afterward with 
the drippings. Allow about a quarter of an hour to a 
pound, if you like your meat rare ; more, if you prefer 
to liave it well done. Some, when the meat is almost 
done, dredge with flour and baste with butter— only once. 
Remove the beef, when quite ready, to a heated dish- 
skim the drippings ; add a tcacupful of boiling water! 
boil up once, and send to table in a gravy-boat. Many 
reject made gravy altogether, and only serve the red 
hquor that runs from the meat into the dish as it is cut 
This is.the practice with some— indeed most of our best 
housekeepers. If you have made gravy in a sauce-boat 
give your guest his choice between that and the juice in 
the dish, called platter gravy. Serve with mustard, or 
scraped horseradish and vinegar. 

TIME TABLE FOR ROASTING 

Ten pounds of beef will take from two hours to two 
hours and a half roasting. 

Six pounds one hour and a quarter to one hour and a 
[half. 

Three ribs of beef, boned and rolled, well tied round 
with paper, will .ice two hours and a half 

If beef is ver3 fat. it does not require basting ; if very 
lean, tie it up in greasy paper, and baste well. Theae 
jcalculations are for a good brisk fire, and in a good oven. 

ROAST .liEF, WITH YORKSHIRE "UDDING. 

Set a piece of roast beef to roast 
several sticks laid across a 



rating, or 



ipping-pan, Thuc-quar- 






74 THE ureadmaKkr's cooking lessons. 

tersof an hour before it is clone, ""^ ''- P";'^;"f ,X' 
pour into tl,e pan. 0,.uu,ue to rest "'<= beef, the <lrp 
ping .neanwhilc falUn, upon the batter below. %\1 en 
loth are done, cut the pud.ling .nto squares, and lay 
around the n.eat when d.sh.d. If there ts ^-'r fat >n 
the dr,ppn,g.pan before the pudc nrg is --IV ° J^^ [" 
in, drain it off, leaving just enough to prevent the baiar 
from sticking to the bottom. ' 

One pn.t milk, four eggs, whites »<! yolks 1-- 
separately, two cups of flour, bcu,g careful not to make 
too stiff, and it should be baked to a yellov brown. 

ROAST BKF.F. 

Prepare for your oven by dredging l.ghtly with flour, 
and seasonn,g with salt and pepper ; place >" ''- °-»; 
and baste frequently while roast.ng Allow a quarter 
of an hour tor a pound of meat, .f you hi e .t rare 
Lge. =f you like i well done. Serve wi.h a sauce, 
n de uom the drq.pn.gs rn the pan, to whrch has 
been added a tablespoon of Harvey or Worceste - 
shire s.uce, and a Ud,lespoo: of tomato catsup. U 
you roast the round do n^.t fail to baste it often. 

BbKF A-LA-MODE. 

Take a round b^ f ; remove the bone from the mid- 
die, and trim - .ye tougher bits about the ed^s 
with such gristle, etc., as you ca. reach. Set these 
aside for soup-stock. 

Bind the beef into a symmetrical shape by passing a 
strip of stout muslin, as wide as the round is high, abo, t 
if and stitching the ends together at one side. Have 

.:ady at least a pound of fat salt pork, cut into stnp 
as thick as your middle finger, an,! long enoug^i to reach 
from top to bottom of the trussed round. Put a halt 
Dint of vinegar over the fire in a tin or porcelain sauce- 
pin "season with three or four minced shallots or button 



ANIMAL FOOD. 



75 



th flour, 
le oven, 
quarter 
it rare ; 
a sauce, 
-lich has 
orcester- 
tsup. H 
iften. 

the mid* 
le edges, 
5et these 

passini; a 
gh, abort 
e. Have 
nto strips 
1 to reach 
'ut a half 
ain sauce- 
, or button 



onions, two teaspoonfuls made mustard, a teaspoonful 
niitmog, one of cloves, half as much allspice, half spoon- 
ful black pepper, with a bunch of sweet herbs minced 
fine, and a tablespoonful brown sugar. Let all simmer 
for five minutes, then boil up once, and pour, while 
scalding hot, upon the strips of pork, which should be 
laid in a d. cp disl^ Let all stand together until cold. 
Remove the pork to a plate, and mix with the liqiior left 
in the <1ish, enough bread crumbs to make a tolerably 
stiff force-meat. If the vinegar is very strong, dilute 
with a little water before moistening the n ,imbs. With 
a long, thin-bladed knife, make perpendicular incisions 
in the meat, not more than half an inch apait, even 
nearer is better ; thrust into these the strips of fat pork, 
so far down that the upper ends are just level with the 
surface, and work into the cavities with them a little of 

\ force-meat. Proceed thus until the meat is fairly 
ruldlid and plugged with the pork. Fill the hole from 
whicii the bone was taken with the dressing and bits of 
pork ; rub the upper side of the beef well with the spiced 
forced-meat. Put into a baking-pan with a little water 
to prevent burning; turn a large pan over i; to keep in 
the steam, and roast slowly for five or six '\oiii:>, allowing 
half an hour to each pountl of meat. If the beef be lough, 
you had better stew the round by putting it in a \w\. with 
iialfcnoughwatertocover it. Cover tightly and stew very 
slowly for six hours ; then set in the oven with the gravy 
about it, and brown half an l^onr, basting frequently. 

If you roast ihe round, do not remove the cover, 
except to baste (and this should be done often), until 
fifteen minutes bt fore you draw it from the oven. Sei 
away with the muslin band still about it, and pour the 
gravy over the meat. 

When cold lift from the gravy,— which, by the way, 
will be excellent seasoning for your soup-stock,— cut the 



m 



Siil 



76 THE breadmaker's cooking lessons. 

stitches in the muslin girdle, and remove carefully and 
send the meat to table, cold, garnished with parsley and 
nasturtium blossoms. Carve horizontally, m slices thin 
as a shaving. Do not offer the outside to any one ; but 
the second cut will be handsomely marbled with the 
white pork, which appearance should continue all the 

way down. . 

In winter it will keop a week and more, and as long 
in summer, if kept in the refrigerator-exccpt when it is 
on the table. 

BEEFSTEAK. 

To fry a beefsteak is a culinary outrage, to speak 
plainly. A steak should be broiled, not fried. A piece 
of beef swimming in grease, dry and hard, is worse than 
waste of so much good material that otherwise cooked 
might be sweet, tender and digestible. 

BROILED BEEFSTEAK. 

Lay a thick tender steak upon a gridiron over hot 
coals having greased the bars with butter before the 
steak has been put upon it (a steel gridiron with slender 
bars is to be preferred, the broad flat iron bars of grid- 
irons commonly used fry and scorch the meat, imparting 
a disa-reeable flavour). When done on one side, have 
ready your platter warmed, with a little butter on it ; 
lay the steak upon the platter with the cooked side 
down, that the juices which have gathered may run on 
the platter, but do not press the meat ; then lay your 
beefsteak again upon the gridiron quickly and cook the 
other ^'ide. When done to your liking, put again on the 
platter, spread lightly witl 'cutter, place where it will 
keep warm for a few moments, but not to let the butter 
become oily, (over boiling steam is best) ; and then serve 
on hot plates. Beefsteak should never be seasoned with 
salt and pepper while cooking, if your meat is tough. 
pound well with a steak mallet on both sides. 






uUy and 
sley and 
ices thin 
3ne; but 
with the 
e all the 

1 as long 
vhen it is 



to speak 

A piece 

orse than 

se cooked 



over hot 
-)efore the 
th slender 
rs of grid- 
imparting 
side, have 
tter on it ; 
)oked side 
lay run on 
n lay your 
d cook the 




ANIMAL FOOD. 



77 



rain on 



the 

lere it will 

the butter 

then serve 

Lsoned with 

at is tough, 



HOW TO CORN BEEF. 

Rub each piece of l)eef well with salt mixed with cnc- 
tenth part of sahpetre until the salt lies upon the dry 
surface. Put aside in a cold place twenty- four hours 
and repeat the process, rubbing in the mixture very 
thoroughly. Put away again until next day, by which 
time the following pickle should be made and perfectly 
cold : — Five gallons water, two gallons salt, four ounces 
saltpetre, one and a half pound brown sugar. Boil this 
mixture ten minutes, and pour over the beef when cold. 
Examine the pickle, to be sure it keeps well, from day 
to day ; if not, it shows that enough salt was not rubbed 
into the beef, and, after ilrying, that should be attended 
to once or twice more, but if the pieces are not too large 
there will be no trouble. 

BEEFSTEAK PIE. 

Cut the steak into pieces an inch long, and stew with 
the bone (cracked) in just enough water to cover the 
meat until it is half done. At the same time parboil a 
dozen potatoes in another pot. If you wish a bottom 
crust — a doubtful question — line a pudding-dish with a 
good paste, made according to the recipe given below. 
Put in a layer of the beef, with salt and pepper, and a 
very Httle chopped onion ; then one of sliced potatoes, 
with a little butter scatttcred upon them, and so on, 
until the dish is full. Pour over all the gravy in which 
the meat is stewed, having first thrown away the bone 
and thickened with brown flour. Cover with a crust 
thicker than the lower, leaving a slit in the middle. 

BEEF TONGUE. 

Soak over night in cold water when you have washed 
it well. Next morning put into a pot with plenty of 
cold water, and boil slowly until it is tender throughout. 
This you can determine by testing it with a fork. 



78 



THE BKEADMAKKR S COOKING LliSSONS. 



- ::\ 



M 





■ v 

■111 




1, ■■■ 


Km 


1^ 



BOILED rOKNED DRKF. 

1. If your piece is a rouiul, skewer it well into shape, 
and tie it np with stout tape or twine when you have 
washed it in three or four waters and removed all the 
salt from the outside. Put into a pot, and cover with 
cold water. Allow, in l)oilin<,^ about twenty minutes to 
a pound. Turn the meat three times while cooking. 
When done, drain very dry, and serve with drawn butter 
in a sauce-boat. Send around mashed turnips with the 
meat. They should be boiled in a separate pot, liow- 
ever, or they will impart a disagreeable taste to the beef. 
The brisket is a good piece for a family dniner. 

2. Put the beef in water enough lo cover it, and let it 
heat slowly, and boil slowly, and be careful to take off 
the grease. Many think it much improv^^d by boiling 
potatoes, turnips and cabbages with it. In this care 
the vegetables must be peeled and all the grease care- 
fullv skimmed as fast as it ri:^es. Allow about twenty 
minutes of boiling for farh pound of meat. 

lK)lI.La) lU-Ail' (COI.I)). 

[To be used next day or wh.-n you like, for breakfast.] 
Melt a good Imnj) of lnitt(n-, two ounces, over a slow 
lire, into a tablespoonful of Hour; when it has simmered 
a little add some chopjied onion (to taste) and a dessert- 
spoonful of chopped parsley wluni brown ; season with 
pepper and add a 'ittle stock or gravy, or water ; mince 
the meat, put it iii with the rest, and let it heat gradually; 
when nearly boiling thicken with a tiaspoonful of flour. 
Add a little cotsup or sauce of any kind. 

si'ici:i) in:i;i'. 

Four pounds of round beef chopped ilnc; remove all 

fat; add three dozen small soda biscuits rolled fine, four 

eggs, one cup of milk, one labl' ;>Mon ground mace, 

two tabIe:;poons of black pepper, one tablespoon melted 



*^'^M. 



ANIMAL rooD. 



79 



butter; mix well and put in any tin ]^au that it will just 
till, packiiif^- it well ; baste w ith butter and water, and 
bake two hours in a slow oven. 

DIU-:i'STH.\K IN BAKING PAN. 

Take two pt)untls of beefsteak, whit h cut in pierces 
the size of walnuts, but only half an inch thick ; i)eel 
two pound of potatoes, cut in slices a qu.irter of 
an inch thick, two middlins;-sized onions slic(>d ; mix 
two teaspoonfuls of salt and one of pepper. Then 
lay five or six slices of potatoes on the bottom of the 
pan, season them, then add some pieces of beef; 
season again, then potatoes and onions, then beef, 
until the pan is full, })otatoes on the top, seasoning 
each time; pour three quarters of a pmt of water, lock 
the lid, put in your oven, or send to the baker's, for 
one hour and a half; when done shake the pot gently, 
that the gravy may mix with the potatoes and onions, 
and form a rice thick sauce. Skirt or any other part 
of beef is excellent done thus. 

BKKF WITH VF.r.KTABLES. 

Peel two small carrots, one turnip, two onions, cut 
in pieces, put some sliced potatoes at the bottom, then 
the meat in centre ; season, and cover over with remain- 
ing vegetables ; add a few cloves, a pint of water ; put 
in slow oven for three hours, take off the fat, and serve. 
Four pounds ol any inferior parts of beef will eat tender 
done thus. 

DkIKO BL'.EF. 

The most connnon way of serving dried or smoketi 
beef is to shave it into thin slices or chi[)s, raw; but a 
more savory relish may be made of it with little trouble. 
Put the slices of uncooked beef into a frying pan with 
just enough boiling water to cover them ; set them over 
the fire for ten ininates, drain off all the water, and with 



!■■< 



80 



THE BREADMAKEr's COOKING LESSON'S. 



^ii 



i\' 



m 






|i 




a knife and fork cut the meat into small bits. Return 
to the pan, which should be hot, with a tablespoonful 
of butter and a little pepper. Have ready some well- 
beaten eggs, allowing four to a half-pound of beef; stir 
them into the pan with the minced meat, and toss and 
stir the mixture for about two minutes. Send to table 
in a covered dish. 

STEWED BEEF. 

One tablespoonful of butter, two sliced onions, twelve 
whole cloves, allspice, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one- 
quarter teaspoonful of black pepper, one pint of cold 
water, two or three pounds of tender beef, a little flour. 
In a stew-pan place a large tablespoonful of butter, 
in which fry until quite brown two sLced onions add- 
ing, while cooking, twelve whole cloves; ditto allspice; 
half a teaspoonful of salt, and half that quantity of 
black pepper ; take from the fire, pour in a pint of cold 
water, wherein lay two or three pounds of tender lean 
beef cut in small, thick pieces; cover closely, and let 
all stew gently two hours, adding, just before serving, 
a little flour thickening. 

BEEF SAUSAGES. 

To every pound of suet allow two pounds of lean beef, 
seasoning to taste, a little mixed spice. Chop the suet 
finely, taking care that there is no skin with it, add 
pepper, salt and spices; mix well together, form mto 
flat cakes and fry brown. 

ROAST bullock's HEART. 

One bullock's heart, a quarter pound of suet, six 
ounces of bread crumbs, a quarter pint of milk, one 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one dessertspoonful 
of chopped mixed herbs, a quarter pound of drippin"- or 
butter, one pint of gravy or beef-lea. For the sauce- 
one small onion, a dessertspoonful of flour, salt and 



ANIMAL FOOD. 



81 



pepper, butter the size of an egg, a large spoonful of 
mushroom catsup. Wash tlie heart in salt water, t ik- 
ing care to remove all the blood ; wash in a second 
water and dry with a clean cloth ; be careful to dry it 
thoroughly ; chop the suet as finely as possible, mix 
with some bread-crumbs the suet, parsley, herbs, salt 
and pepper ; lastly put in the milk, then proceed to fill 
all the cavities of the heart with the stuffing; take a 
piece of paper, grease it well with butter or dripping, 
place this over the cavities and tie it on tightly with 
string; put one ounce of dripping mto the pan, and 
baste the heart occasionally ; when the gravy boils, cut 
up the onion, sprinkling with pepper and salt, and add 
to the gravy; allow it to stew geutly until about five 
minutes before the heart is done; skim occasionally; 
when done strain the liquor ; into another saucepan put 
the butter, and allow it to molt a minute or two ; then 
add the flour and mix smoothly together ; then pour in 
slowly the liquor, stirring until it boils and thickens. 
Then dish up, remove papt,"r, and add to the sauce 
the mushroom catsup. Immediately pour twis sauce 
round the heart and serve. 



BF.EFSTEAK PUDDING. 

Half a pound of flour, six ounces of beef suet, two 
and a half pounds of rump or beefsteak, pepper and salt, 
one dozen oysters, a {juarter pint of stock. Chop the 
suet finely, and rub it into the flour with your hands, 
sprinkling a little silt, then mix with water to a smooth 
paste ; roll the paste to the eighth of an inch ; line a 
quart pudding basin with the paste ; cut the steak into 
thin slices, flour them, and season with pejiper and salt ; 
put the oysters and the liquor that is with them into a 
saucepan and bring it to the point of boiling ; then 
remove from the fire, and strain the liquor into a basin ; 



82 



THE BUEADMAKEr's COOKING LESSONS. 



then cut off the beards and the liard parts, leaving only 
the soft, roll the slices of steak ; filling the basin with 
the meat and oysters ; pour in the stock and liquor from 
the oysters. Cover with paste and boil three hours. Be 
sure the water is boiling before putting in the pudding. 



PORK. 

SALTING PORK. 

Cover the bottom of the barrel with salt an inch 
deep ; put down one layer of pork and cover that with 
salt half an inch thick; continue this until all your 
pork is disposed of; then cover the whole with strong 
brine ; pack as tight as possible, the rind side down or 
next to the barrel; keep the pork always under the 
bri»e by using an inner cover and clean stones. 
Sho«i^ any scum rise, pour oiT the brine, scald it, and 
add raaore salt Old brnie can be boiled down, well 
^!n"""d, and used for a fresh supply. 

CURING HAMS. 

H^ng up the hams a week or ten days, the longer 
the tenderer and better, if kept perfectly sweet ; mix 
§m ^iKch. good-sized ham one teacup of salt, one tabie- 
ip©on of molasses, one ounce of saltpetre; lay the 
h«ms vfi a clean dry tub; heat the mixture and rub 
well into the hams, especially around the bones and 
recesses ; repeat the process once or twice, or until all 
the mixture is used , then let the hams lie two or three 
days, when they must be put for three weeks in brine 
strong enough to bear an ai^.^ ; then soak eight hours in 
cold water; hang up to dry in the kitchen or other 
more convenient j)iace for a week or more; smoke 
from three to five days, being careful not to heat the 



ANIMAL FOOD. 



83 



hams. Corn cobs and apple-tree wood ate pjood for 
smoking. The juices are better retained if smoked 
witii the hock down. Tie up carefully in baj^^s for the 
summer. 

SAUSAGES. 

Pork, fat and lean, sage, pepper and salt, a little 
summer savory. Chop fat and lean of pork together; 
season with sage, pepper and salt, and you may add 
two or three berries of allspice ; lialf fill hogs' guts that 
have been soaked and made extremely clean ; or the 
meat may be kept in a very small pan, closely covered ; 
and so rolled and dusted with a very little Hour before 
it is fried. Serve on stewed red cabbage ; or mashed 
potatoes, put in a form, brown with a salamander, and 
garnish with the above; they must be pricked with a 
fork before they are dressed, or they will burst. 



HAM. 
[How to boil to give it an excellent flavour.] 

Two heads of celery, two turnips, vinegar and water, 
a large bunch of savoury herbs, and three onions. In 
chosing a ham, be sure that it is perfectly sweet. To 
ascertain this, stick a sharp knife into it r^ear the bone ; 
when the knife is taken out, it will have an agreeable 
smell if the meat is sweet. If the meat has been hung 
for a long time, and it is salt and dry, it would l)e 
necessary to soak for twenty-four hours, and change 
the water often. Put the meat in a large; pot with suf- 
hcicnt water to cover ii ; bring it to the boil g)tidi((ill}\ 
and carefully take off the scum as it rises; when on the 
j>oint of boiling add the vegetables and herbs; let it 
simmer gently until quite tender, then take it out, strip 
off the skin, cover with bread raspings and put a paper 
frill round the knuckle. I'our hours will be suHicient 
tor a ham weighing ten pounds. 



84 



THE HRF.ADMAKER S COOKING LESSONS. 



It. ." 



i& 



ROAST SPARE RIB. 

When first put down to the fire, cover with a greased 
paper until it is half done. Remove it then, and dredge 
with flour A few mniutes later, baste once with butter, 
and afterwards, every httle while, with its own gravy. 
This is necessary, the spare rib being a very dry piece. 
Just before you take it up, strew over the surface thickly 
with fine bread crumbs seasoned with powdered sage, 
pepper, and salt, and a small onion tnniced into almost 
invisible bits. Let it cook five minutes and baste once 
more with butter. Skim the gravy, add a half-cupful of 
hot water, thicken with brown flour, squeeze in the juice 
of a lemon, i^train and pour over the meat in the dish. 
Send tomato catsup around with it, or if you prefer, put 
a liberal spoonful in the gravy, after it is strained. 

PORK POT-PIE. 

You can make this of lean pork, cut from any part of 
the pig, but the chine is best. Crack the bones well, 
and cut up the chine into riblettes two inches long. 
Line your pot, which should be round at the bottom 
and well greased, with a good light paste; put in the 
meat, then a layer of parboiJed potatoes, split in half, 
seasoning with pepper and salt as you go on. When 
the pot is nearly fall, pour in a quart of cold water and 
put on the upper crust, cutting a small round hole out 
of the middle, through which you can add hot water 
should the gravy boil away too fast. Slips of paste may 
also be strewed among the meat and potatoes. Put on 
the pot lid, and boil from one hour and a half to two 
hours. When done, remove the upper crust carefully, 
turn out the meat and gravy into a bowl, that you may 
get at the lower. Lay this u{)on a hot dish, put the 
meat, etc., in order upon it, pour the gravy over it, and 
cover with the top crust. This can be browned wuh a 
red-hot shovel, or ovt n lid. 



ANIMAL FOOD. 



85 



MUTTON AND LAMP. 

There is no meat mote wholesome and nourishing 
than tender fresh mutton or hinih. 

For roasting, the shoulder, the saddle, leg and part of 
the loin; the leg is better boiled, unless the mutton is 
young and tender. 

ROAST MUTTON. 

Wash the meat well and dry with a clean cloth. 
Have a good strong fire ; put on the meat with a 
trifle of hot water in the dripping pan ; pour over the 
meat. Allow twenty minutes time to each pound of 
the mutton. 

MUTTON FOT PIE. 

Cut up from three to four pounds of mutton, — the 
inferior portions will do as well as any other, — crack 
the bones and remove all the fat. Put on the meat — 
the pieces not more than an inch and a half in length-- 
in a pot with enough cold water to cover well, and set 
it where it will heat gradually. Add nothinj^ else until 
it has stewed on hour, closely covered ; then throw in 
half a pound of salt pork cut into strips, a chopped 
onion, and some pepper ; cover and stew an hour longer, 
or until the meat is very tender. Make, out a little paste, 
as for the crust of a meat pie ; cut into scpuires, and drop 
in the stew. Boil ten minutes. Thicken with two 
spoonfuls of flour stirred into a cup of cold milk. Boil 
up once, and serve in a tureen or deep covered dish. 
If green corn is in season, this stew is greatly improved 
by adding, an hour before it is taken from the lire, the 
grains of half a dozen cars, cut from the cob. Tr\ it 
for a cheap family dinner, and you will repeat the hx- 
periment often. Latnb is even better for your purpose 
tlian mutton. 



86 



THE I3READMAKER S COOKING LESSONS. 




MUTTON CHOPS. 

If your butcher has not done it, — and the chanci-s are 
that he has not, unless you stood by lo see it attended 
to, — trim ofT the superfluous fat and skin, so as to give 
the chops a certain hthencss and elegance of shape. 
Dip each in beaten eggs, roll in pounded crackers, and 
fry in hot lard or dripping. If the fat is unsalted, sprinkle 
the chops with salt before rolling m the egg. Serve up 
dry and hot. 



VEAL. 

No man should have the least prejudice against a 
calf. He should be willing to cat him if he is personally 
acquainted with the man that raised and sold him to the 
butcher ; but swear the butcher to the effect, that he is 
at least four weeks old, otherwise have nothing to do 
with the animal. When properly fatted the calf is 
exquisite every inch of him. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

Dip in beaten egg when you have sprinkled a little 
pepper and salt over tin ui ; then roll in rracker-crumbs, 
and fry in hot dripping or lard. If vou use butler or 
dripping, add a little boiling water to the gravy when 
the meat is dislu-d ; tliitkcMi with browned flour, boil up 
once, sending to table in a boat. 

VEAL CHOI'S 

are more juicy and less apt to be tough and solid tlian 
cutlets. Trim the bone as with nnitton chops, and fry, 
dipping m beaten egg and cracker-crumbs. Add a 
little paisley and a minced shalivi, i,u ihg gravy. 



ANIMAL FOOD. 



87 



ROAST VKAL. 

Vo.'il requires a Ioniser time to roast tlian mutton or 
lamb. It is fair to allow (it least a quarter of an hour 
to eacli pound. Heat gradually, baste frequently-at 
first with salt and water, afterward with pavy. When 
the meat is nearly done, dredj^^e lightly with flour, and 
baste once with melted butter. Skim the gravy ; thicken 
with a tcaspoonful of flour, boil up, and put into the 
gravy-boat. Should the meat brown too fast, cover 
with white paper. The juices, which make up the 
characteristic flavour of meat, are oftener dried out of 
veal than any other flesh that comes to our tables. 

JEI.LIKD VI:AI,. 

Boil the veal tender, pick it up line, put in a mould, 
add the water it was boiled in, and set it in a cold place; 
season with salt and pepper to taste ; a layer of hard 
boiled eggs improves it. 

SPICF.D VEAL. 

Take four pounds veal ; chop it fine and season highly 
with salt, pepper, cloves and cinnamon ; add four small 
crackers rolled out, one egg, and a lump of butter nearly 
the size of an egg; mix throroughly together and press 
it in a baking tin, and bake two and a half hours. When 
thoroughly cold, slice for tea. Some prefer it in rolls, 
convenient for slicing, and baked from one-half to three- 
quarters of an hour. 

VliAL PATES. 

Chop some cold veal fine, moisten with cream and an 
egg, beaten ; seasi^n with salt, sweet marjoram, and 
powdered mace; thei n .. up with the hands in the 
shape of cones or pa -cakes, and roll in crumbs. 
Either fry in a buttered pan or bake in a hut oven. 



ft 



88 



THE BREADMAKERS COOKING LESSONS, 



li- 



I 






FISH. 

A fresh fish to be indeed fresh should have red 
gills, eyes full and bright, body fnui and stift". After 
thoroughly washing tliey should remain for some time 
in strong salt and water, especially if they be fresh 
water fish, as this method removes the muddy taste. 
Before cooking they should be wiped dry and lightly 
dredged with flour, season with salt and pepper. Sal- 
mon trout, whitefish, speckled trout and other small 
fish are usually broiled or fried. To bake a fish, truss 
with co-d and put in the oven on a gridiron or sticks 
laid ai i\;vN a dripping pan. If to be boiled, the fish 
shonl; ! .^ trussed as for baking, enclosed in a cloth and 
placed !m cold water before being put over the fire to 
boil. Salt fish should be properly soaked and the water 
changed frequeiitly before cooking. A small quantity of 
sugar and salt mixed will keep fish fresh for some time. 

SAUCE FOR BOILED MSH. 

A teacupful of milk with the same quantity of water ; 
scald, and when boiling stir in a tablcsjjoonful of flour 
previously mixed with cold water; add two or three 
eggs well beaten. Season with salt, pepper, vinegar, 
and three tablespoonfuls of butter. It has a nice effect 
to slice hard boiled eggs, pl.icing them on the fish and 
pouring the sauce over all. 

It is unnecessary to repeat the methods for the various 
kinds of fish, the principle is the same, and the nice point 
is in properly cleaning and dressing. Eels should be 
skinned, and all fisli having scales should be scaled. 

CHOWDER. 

Five pounds of cod, or other fish, cut in .squares ; fry 
plenty of salt pork cut in thin slices ; put a layer of pork 
in your kettle, then one of fish ; one of potatoes in thick 
slices, and one of onions in slices ; plenty of pepper and 



ANIMAL FOOD. 



89 



salt; repeat as long as your materials last, and finish with 
a layer of Boston crackers or crusts of bread. Water 
sufficient to cook with, or milk if you prefer. When the 
chowder is thoroughly done, take ot- th a perforated 
skimmer and put into a tureen. Thu u. n the gravy with 
a tablespoonhil of flour and about the same quaniiy of 
butter. Boil up and pour over the cliowder. Send 
sliced lemon, pickles, and stewed tomatoes to the table 
with it, that the guests may add, if they like. Clam 
chowder is made on the ..a me plan. 

OYSTER STEW. 

Drain the liquor from two quarts of firm, plump oys- 
ters, mix with it a small teacup of hot water, add a little 
salt and pepper, and set over the fire in a saucepan. 
When it boils, add a large cupful of rich milk. Let it 
boil up once, add the oysters, let them boil five minutes. 
When they ruffle, add two tablespoons butter, and the 
instant it is melted, and well stirred in, take olf the fire. 

OYSTER SAUSAGES. 

One dozen large oysters, half a pound of rump steak, 
a little seasoning of herbs, pepper and salt. Chop all 
fine, and r )11 them into the form of sausa-es and fry. 

OYSTERS (fried, TO GARNISH BOILED FISIl). 

Make a batter of flour, milk, and eggs, season it a 
very little, dip the oysters into it, and fry them a fine 
yellowd)rown. A little nutmeg should be put into the 
seasoning, and a few crumbs of bread into the flour. 

ANGELS ON HORSEBACK. 

Trim the beards from as many oysters as may be 
required, wrap each in a very thin shaving of fat, streaky 
bacon (cold boiled bacon is the best) ; run them one 
after the other on to a silver skewer, and hold them over 
a toast in front of a clear fire until the bacon is slightly 
crisp ; serve on the toast immediately. 



I 




90 



THIi URKAUMAKKR's COOKING LESSONS. 



I 



STUIFING I'OK SALMON, PIKE, COD, OR OTHER 
LARGE FISH. 

Take equal parts of fat bacon, beef-suet, and fresh 
butter, some parsley, thyme and savoury; a little onion, 
and a few leaves of scented marjoram shred fine ; an 
anchovy or two; a little salt and nutme.t,', and some 
pepper. Oysters will be an improvement with or with- 
out anchovies ; add crumbs, and an egg to bind. 

now TO DRV FISH. 

O' !.n md srale the fish, opening at the back, and 
rt mo , nu the inside and any blood along the back bone. 
Now « -lb with common salt, hang up and let it drain 
for twenty-four hours. Pound from two to four ounces 
saltpetre, according to the size of the fish, two to four 
ounces of salt, and the same of coarse sugar. When 
well mixed rub this into the flesh and lay on a large 
tray or ilish for two days, then rub with salt, and in 
twenty-four hours it is ready to dry or smoke. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 

OBSERVATIONS AND SUGGESTIONS. 

The following is translated from a German cookery 
book:--" In Vienna, especially in the hotels, young 
chickens are killed immediately before they are wanted, 
plucked and cleaned as quickly as possible before the 
flesh becomes cold, otherwise it would be tough. They 
are cut up into joints and sprinkled with salt ; each 
piece must then be dipped into flour, and then into egg 
and grated bread crumbs, and fried immediately; or 
they may be dipped first into butter, and then into bread 
crumbs mixid with a litlk flour. This method admits 
of no delay in performance if the whole flavour of the 



AN'IMAL FOOD. 



91 



meat is to be preserved and the gravy kept in ; but in 
private liouses the chickens are generally allowed to 
hang a day or two, to ensure their being tender." 

When poultry is brought into the kitchen for use it 
should be kept as cool as possible. The best position 
in which to place it is with the breast downwards on a 
shelf or marble slab. The crop should be taken out. 
Cdioose fowls with a thin, transparent skin, white and 
delicate. Time required to boil poultry : a chicken will 
take about twenty minutes; a fowl about forty minutes ; 
a small turkey an hour and a half; a large turkey two 
hours or more. Singe all poultry with alcohol, or over 
a bright wood fire blaze, and dip quails into clarified 
butter for broiling. 

In clyoosing ducks, be careful to secure those with 
plump bellies and thick and yellowish feet ; and to 
ensure them being tender, it is advisable to let theni 
hang a day or two. 

In choosing turkeys, the hen turkey is preferable for 
boiling, on account of their whiteness and tenderness. 

Partridges in perfection will have dark coloured bills 
and yellowish legs ; the time they should be kept entirely 
depends upon the taste of those for whom they are 
intended, as what some people would consider delicious, 
to others would be disgusting and ofTensive. Young 
hares may be known by their smooth and sharp claws, 
and the cleft in the lip not much spread. It is prefer- 
able to hang without being paunched, but should it be 
previously emptied, wipe the inside every day and 
sprinkle over it a little ginger and pepper. Rabbits 
when young have smooth and sharp claws. 

In selecting a goose, choose one with a clean white 
skin, plump breast and yellow feet. 

All wild meats and game should be soaked an hour 
or so in salt and water to remove the wild taste. 




L 







MICROCOPY RESOLUTION TEST CHART 

(ANSI and ISO TEST CHART No. 2) 



1.0 



I.I 



1.25 



1^ 



II 2.8 

III 3.2 

liill 3.6 



4,0 



1.4 



2.5 
2.2 

2.0 



1.8 



1.6 



A APPLIED IIVMGE Inc 



1653 East Main Street 
Roctiester, New York 14609 
(716) 482 - 0300 - Phone 
(716) 288 - 5989 - Fay 



USA 



/ ■ 






■ I 






92 



THE BREADMAKEk's COOKING LESSONS. 



Mi 



if 
III 



Pigeons may be dressed in so many ways, that they 
are very usefuh The good flavour of them depends very 
much on their being cropped and drawn as soon as 
killed. No other bird requires so much washing. Pigeons 
left from dinner the day before may be stewed or made 
into a pie ; in either case care must be taken not to 
overdo them, which will make them stringy. They need 
only be heated up in gravy, made ready, and forcemeat- 
balls may be fried and added, instead of putting a stuff- 
ing into them. If for a pie, let beef-steaks be stewed in 
a little water, and put cold under them, and cover each 
pigeon with a piece of fat bacon, to keep them moist. 
Season as usual. 

ROAST TURKEY OR CHICKEN. 

Having picked and drawn the fowls, wash th'em well 
in two or three waters; wipe them dry; dredge them 
with a little flour inside and out, and a little pepper 
and salt ; prepare a dressing of bread and cracker 
crumbs, fill the bodies and crops of the fowls and then 
bake them from two to three hours; baste them fre- 
quently while roasting ; stew the giblets in a saucepan ; 
just before serving, chop the giblets fine ; after taking 
up the chicken, and the water in which the giblets were 
boiled, add the chopped giblets to the gravy of the roast 
fowl ; thicken with a little flour, which has been pre- 
viously wet with the water, boil up, and serve in a gravy 
dish. Roast chickens and turkey should be accom- 
panied with jellies or cranberry sauce. 

DRESSING FOR TURKEY OR CHICKEN. 

One pint of soaked bread, two tablespoonfuls of sage, 
two tablespoonfuls of summer savory, two teaspoonfuls, 
of sa!! tWO teaspoonfuls pepper, butter size of an egg. 
Moisten with a very little water, and add a few oysters 
with a little of the liquor, if you please. The best author- 



ANIMAL FOOD. 



93 



ities say the ilressing is the finest when it crumbles as 
the fowl is cut. 

COILED CHICKLN'S. 

Clean, wash, and stuff as for roasting. Baste a white 
cloth around each, and put into a pot with enough boil- 
ing water to cover them well. The hot water cooks the 
skin at once, and prevents the escape of the juices. The 
broth will not be so rich as if the fowls are put on in 
cold water ; but this is a proof that the meat will be 
more nutritious and better flavoured. Stew very slowly, 
for the first half hour especially. Boil an liour or more, 
guiding yourself by size and toughness. Serve with 
egg or bread sauce. [See Sauces.) 

SAUCE FOR ROAST TURKEY OR CHICKEN. 

One pint milk, one cup bread-crumbs (very fine), one 
onion sliced, a jiinch of mace, pepper and salt to taste, 
three tablespoonfuls butter. vSimmer the sliced onion in 
the milk until tender; strain the milk and pour over 
the bread-crumbs, which should be put into a saucepan. 
Cover and soak half an hour ; beat smooth with an egg- 
whip, add the seasoning and butter ; stir in well, boil uy. 
once, and serve in a tureen. If it is too thick, add boil- 
ing water and more butter. This sauce is for roast 
poultry. vSome people add some of the gravy from the 
dripping-pan, first straining it and beating it well in 
with the sauce. 

lO KOAST A GOOSI-;. 

Having drawn and singed the goose, wipe out the 
inside with a cleati white cloth, and sprinkle in some 
pepper and salt. Make a stuffing of four good-sized 
onions, miiiced line, and half theif quantity of green 
sage leaves, minced also, a large teacupful of grated 
bread crumbs, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, 
and the beaten yolks of two eggs, with a little pepper 
and salt. Mix the whole together and incorporate them 



1-' ■ 



94 



THE BREADMAKEr's COOKING LESSONS. 




well. Put the stuffing into the goose, and press it in 
liartl, but do not entirely fill up the cavity, as the niix- 
ture will swell in cooking. Tie the goose securely round 
with a greased or wetted string, and paper the breast to 
prevent its scorching. The fire must be brisk and well 
kept up. It will require from two hours to two and a 
half to roast. Baste it at first with a little salt and 
water, and then with its own gravy. Take off the paper 
when the goose is half done, and dredge it with a little 
flour toward the last. Having parboiled the liver and 
the heart, chop them and put them into the gravy, which 
must be skimmed well and thickened with a little brown 
flour. Send apple sauce to table with the goose, also 
mashed potatoes. It is well to parboil a goose before 
roasting, as it makes it more delicate, especially if the 
bird is not very young. An old goose is very tough and 
not fit for roasting. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Stew chickens until tender ; line the sides of a deep pie 
dish with nice pastry; put in the chicken, and the water 
in which it has boiled (which should be but half a pint) ; 
season with a large piece of butter, salt and pepper, and 
then cover loosely with crust. While this is baking, 
have ready a quart can of fine oysters ; put on the fire 
a pint of rich milk (or the liquor of the oysters will do) ; 
let it come to a boil ; thicken with a little flour, and 
season with butter, pepper and salt ; pour this over the 
oysters boiling hot, and about fifteen minutes before the 
pie is done, lift the crust and pour the oysters and all 
into the pie ; then return to the oven to finish. 

FRIED CHICKEN. 

Clean, wash, and cut to pieces a couple of spring 
chickens. Have ready in a frying-pan enough boiling 
lard or dripping to cover them well. Dip each piece in 
beaten q^s^ wlien you have salted it, then in cracker- 



ANIMAL FOOD. 



95 



crumbs, and fry until brown. If the chicken is lart^c, 
steam it before frying. When you have taken out tlie 
meat, throw into the hot fat a dozen sprigs of parsley, 
and let them remain a minute— just long enough to 
crisp, but not to dry them. Garnish the chicken by 
strewing these over it. 

ROAST DUCKS. 

Clean, wash and wipe the ducks very carefully. To 
the usual dressnig adtl a little sage. Stuff, and si;w up 
as usual, reserving the giblets for the gravy. If they 
are tender, they wnll not require more than an hour to 
roast. Baste well. Skim the gravy before putting in 
the giblets and thickening. The giblets should be 
stewed in a very little water, then ciiopped fine, and 
added to the gr-.vy in the drip{)ing-pan, with a ciiopped 
shallot and a spoonful of browned flour. Currant or 
grape jelly is the proper sauce. 

WILD DUCKS (stewed). 

Prepare by parboiling for ten minutes. Lay in cold 
water for half an hour. Cut into joints, pepper, salt 
and flour them. Fry a light brown in some butter. 
Put them in a stcwpan and cover with gravy made from 
the giblets, necks, and some pieces of veal. Season 
with salt and pepper. Cover and stew for half an hour 
or until tender, take out the duck, skim the gravy and 
strain ; add half a cup of cream, or some rich milk in 
which an egg has been beaten, thicken with brown 
flour, add one tablespoonful wine, and the juice of half a 
lemon beaten in slowly, or the cream may curdle. JJoil 
up and pour over the ducks and serve. 

BROILED CHICKEN. 

Cut some fowls down the back, truss legs and wings 
as for boiling, with the liver and gizzard under thewing ;. 
baste them well with butter, sprinkle with i)epi>er and 



#^i 



■ 



ff? 



I 



96 



THE BREADMAKER S COOKING LESSONS. 





salt, and broil them slowly over a clear fire, turning 
frequently, and basting well till cooked. 

QUAIL ON TOAST. 

After the birds are nicel}' cleaned, cut them open 
down the back ; salt and pepper them, and dredge with 
flour. Break down the breast and back-bones, so they 
will lie flat, and place them in a pan with very little 
water and butter in a hot oven, covering them up tightly 
until nearly done. Then place tliem in a spider in hot 
butter, and fry a moment to a nice brown. Have ready 
slices of baker's bread toasted, and slightly buttered 
upon a platter. The toast should be broken down with 
a carving knife, so that it will be tender. On this place 
the quail ; make a sauce of the gravy in the pan, thicken 
lightly with browned flour, and pour over each quail 
and the toast. 

PRAIRIE CHICKENS, PARTRIDGES AND QUAILS. 

Dress and clean nicely, using a little soda in the water 
in which they are washed ; rinse them and dry, and 
then fill out with dressing, sewing them up nicely, and 
binding down the legs and wings with cords. Put them 
in a steamer over hot water, and let them cook until just 
done. Then place them in a pan with a little butter ; set 
them in the oven and baste them frequently with melted 
butter until of a nice browm. Thi y ought to brown nicely 
in about fifteen minutes. Serve them on a platter, with 
sprigs of parsley alternating with currant jelly. 

A GERMAN DISH. 

Quarter a tender fowl, season the pieces with pepper 
and salt and mace ; flour, and then dip them in the beaten- 
up yolk of an egg ; fry a golden colour in hot lard ; dish 
them, garnished with the liver and gizzard fried separ- 
ately, and with fried parsley. Serve either with a salad 
garnished with hard-boiled eggs or tomato sauce. 



ANIMAL FOOD. 



97 



grandmother's chicken pot-pie. 
Since boyhood the writer has never come across any- 
one who could make chicken pot pie tliat was not a 
disappointment. Even his mother had not learned the 
art ; his wife was a dismal failure, and nearly every 
female acquaintance who has entered the lists fails 
when the crucial test is applied. Of course I praise 
the pie — it needs it — but one plateful always answers. 
I need not to be advised when to quit, as my dear old 
grandmother used to do. It was her pot pies that were 
so juicy and deliciously flavoured that she must needs 
stand by to save me. It is all nonsense that have " I have 
lost my zest for food." I know better. I have tried pot 
pies made by my mother's sisters. I have even gone to 
the Catskill Mountains in the State of New York in 
search of the lost secret — for there in Duchess County 
was my darling grandmother born. Now I know it was 
not prejudice nor my boyish appetite ; for I could not en- 
dure her baked pork and beans. No, the a;i is lost, un- 
less I can conjure it from memory as I was too heedless 
and shiftless to set it down in a book. But the lesson 
has made me more careful since that day. But let me go 
hack in memory and describe her method. It was my 
part to catch the chicken, and I became expert in my 
part as time went on. I selected one or two young 
male fowls according to the number who were to share 
the treat. After scalding, plucking and dressing the 
fowls she washed them several times, after cutting them 
up she left them in salt and water ; allowing them to 
remain in it a half hour or so ; about one hour before 
the meal was to be served she put them over the fire in a 
deep kettle covering, with sufficient cold water to allow 
for evaporation during the hour. This was allowed to 
come slowly to a boil and not hurried. Meantime, a 
rich pastry or crust was madu with sour cream, and a 



fi'- 



ft 




98 THE breadmaker's cooking lessons. 

little soda, rolled out into thin sheets and cut into 
squares-not perfectly square, you know, but square 
enou,h. When ready, and about fifteer. or twenty nnn- 
utes before dinner was to be served ^^^^ -"^^^'f^^^^ 
chicken from the broth or licjuor, then thickened tin 
hquor with flour and plenty of melted butter seaso:;ed 
Jth salt and pepper reduced to a thin batter by stuTinK 
in to the broth, of which there was plenty to cov^r the 
whole, as she returned the chicken and squares of crust 
iu alternate layers, topping off as she bef;an with a layer 
of crust, for I alwavs hung around and conjured her to 
put in " lots of crust." That was a long quarter of an 
hour, always, from the tune she covered it with a tn. 
until served in a large platter, bapt.zed n. the delicious 
crravv. Perhaps this is not a sufficient guide to produce 
Is good a pot pie as she made-and she never failed^ 
but try it. and see. I never expected to make a book 
hut if n.y boyish recollections aids any one to discover 
the lost art' this book will not have been niade in 
vain Her success was equalled when she tried lamb 
veal' or wild pigeons. The secret is in the crust and 
tl,o juiciness and plentifulness of the gravy. 



S/^UCES. GRAVIES, SALADS AND 

RELISHES. 



SAUCES. 
The illustrious French Diplomat, Talleyrand, used to 
say that in England they had one hundred and twenty 
r.figions but only onekind of sauce, and that was me ted 
butter, hut as Soyer, the great Krench cook, adds--- 
.^He should have told hmy one luiudred ami nineteen 
sauces could be engrafted on the original stock. Melted 



SAUCI.S, GRAVIES, SALADS AND RELISHKS. 



09 



butter is the l):isis of a number of very palatable sauces, 
which tnay be as varied as the taste and skill oi the 
cook. 

BUTTER SAUCH. 

This is also the foundation upon which to build any 
kind of a ^<auce by adding the various flavours whieh 
follow below. Take two ounces prime sweet iMitter, two 
ounces Hour, half a teaspoon ful of sail, one-fourlh as 
nuich })epper, mix to^^ether with a spoon, put into a 
quart pan, with a pint of cold water ; place it on the five, 
and stir continually, take it out when it be,i;ins to sim- 
mer, then add one more ounce of butter, stir I'll melted, 
and it is ready for use, or as the foundation of the follow- 
in-,^ various sauces. This may be improved by adding 
half a tablespoonful of vinegar. 

ANCnOVV SAUCE 

is made by addiug one part of the essence o' anchovies 
in three parts of the above, mixing in a sauce-pan and 
serve when hot. 

HARVEY SAUCE 

is made in the same way, and m the same proportions. 

EGG SAUCE. 

Two hard-boiled eggs cut in stpiares and mixed as 
above. 

GHERKIN SAUCE. 

Two tablespoon fuls of chopped capers or pickled 
uiieikins mixed as above. 



FEXNi:r, SAUCE. 

Two t:d:>lespoonfuls of chopped fennel to six of the 
butter sauce, mixed and heated to nearly boiling, as 
above. 



ill 
ill I 



lUU 



TUb UREADMAKKK'S COOKING I-ESSONS. 




1 1 





ONION SAUCE. 

Boil four ounces of sUced onions in salt and wate. 
,„,! w, h the butter sauce, addmg salt and crean, Th^ 
™yte flavoured with sage or summer savory. Othu 
sauces without end on the same plan. 

PICKLE SAUCE. 

One spoonful of chopped pickle or picallily, one d.ttc 
of arvincKar from it •, a Id tohalf a pint of melted butter^ 
and boUa few minutes. Good for fish, meat and 

l»»l'fy- ^ppLE SAUCE. 

Peel six good-Sized apples, cut in four pieces, cut out 
the CO e sUce them fine, put in a stew pan with one 
c^; "of brown sugar an,l a gill of water; stew t.ll 
in pulp, and serve wrth roast pork, goose and duck. 

MINT SAJCE. 

drop three tablespoonfuls of green nrurt, put it into 
a ba m with three of brown sugar, half a teaspoonful of 
salt a quarter of pepper, and halta pint of vmegar. Use 
:^; roTst lamb;'al'so good w>th cold meat and poultry. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

Grate two tablespoonfuls of horseradish, which put 
•„,oT basin • add to it one teaspoonful of mustard, one 
of satt a quarter of pepper, one of sugar, two tablespoon- 
fuls of vulgar ; n,o,sten with a little milk or cream untd 
If a th^k.sh appearance. Serve with rumpsteak, cold 
meats, etc. 

BREAD SAUCE. 

Put in a stew pan four tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, 
a quarter of one of salt, half that of pepper, ten pepper 

";„, ^,.,.1 ., small onion, cut in four, add a pint of milk, 
naif an ounce of butter; boil for ten minutes, when it 
ought to turn out a thickish sauce. 



saucf:s, gravies, salads and relishes. 



101 



WINE AND SPIRIT SAUCE. 

Add to half a pint of melted butter, without salt, two 
tcaspoonfuls of white or brown sugar, a glass of brandy, 
or rum, or sherry, or any liquors. 

BROWN SAUCE FOR BROILEH FOWLS AND MF.ATS. 

Put into a pan one tablespoonful of chopped onions, 
three spoonfuls of vinegar, one of colouring, six of water, 
three of either Harvey's sauce, or ketchup, a little pepper 
and salt, a pint of melted butter, boil till thickish ; serve 
for the same as above. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

One quart of ripe cranberries, granulated sugar, a 
teacupful of water. Wash the berries and carefully 
pick them, then put them into a stewpan with the above 
quantity of water ; allow them to stew very slowly, stir- 
ring occasionally. They require about an hour and a 
half to cook ; when done sweeten with sugar, put into a 
mould, and when -^Id it is ready to serve. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Ten pounds ripe tomatoes, one pint best brown vine- 
gar, two ounces of salt, one-half ounce of cloves, one 
ounce of allspice, one-half pound whtte sugar, one ounce 
garlic, one-half ounce of black pepper, one-half ounce of 
cayenne pepper. Wipe the tomatoes clean, and boil or 
bake till soft ; then strain and rub through a sieve that 
will retain the seeds and skins. Boil the juic for an 
hour, then add the above ingredients (all the spices must 
1)0 ground). Boil all together for a sufficient time, which 
may be known by the absence of any watery particle, 
and by the whole becoming a smooth mass ; five hours 
will generally suffice. Bottle without straining into per- 
fectly dry bottles, and cork securely when cold. The 
arlic must be peeled. The proportions of spice may be 







'i- 



varied according to taste. 



I 

1 




102 THE DREAUMAKEKS COOKING LESSONS. 

SWEKT SAUCE FOR VENISON 



A glass of port win 



about half a tumbler of red cur 



rant ieliv. Put the above ingredients into a stevvpan and 
allow them to melt slowly, do not bod. When melted it 
is ready to serve. 

CELERV SAUCE FOR TURKEY. 

Boil a head of celery until quite tender, then put il 
through a sieve, put the yolk of an egg in a basin and 
beat it well with the strained juice of a lemon, add the 
celery and a couple of spoonfuls of the liquor in which 
the turkey was boiled; salt and pepper to taste. 

A GOOD PUDDING SAUCE. 

Onedialf cupful sugar, one-quarter cupful butter or 
less, one egg. Flavouring, lemon or vanilla ; table- 
spoonful of flour; beac all together. Pour on boiling 
water just before serving the pudding, and stir 
thoro.ighly. Excellent, almost equal to custard. 

DIRECTIONS RESPKCTlNG GRAVIES. 

Gravies mav be made (piite as good of the skirts ol 
beef and the kidney, as of any other meat, prepared in 
the same way. Tlie shank-bones of mutton are a great 
improvement to the richness of gravy ; but hrst soak 
them well, and scour them clean. 

A GOOD BEEF GRAVY FOR POULTRY OR GAME. 

Half pound of lean beef, half a pint of cold water, one 
small onion, a saltspoonful of salt, a little pepper, a 
tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup or Harvey's sauce- 
half a teaspoonful of arrowroot. Cut the beef into 
small pieces and put it and the water into a stewpan. 
Add the onion and seasoning, and simmer gently for 
three hours. A short time before it is required, mix the 
arrowroot with a little cold water, pour into the gravy 
while stirring, add the Hawey's sauce and allow it just to 
come to the boil. Strain into a tureen and serve very hot. 



SAUCES, GRAVIES, SALADS AND RELISHES. 



103 



SAVOURY GKAVY. 

One onion, butler, a tablespoonfnl of flour, half pint 
of broth or stock, pepper and salt, a small quantity of 
Worcester sauce. Mines one onion fine, fry it in but- 
l,-r to a (lark brown, and stir in a tablespoonful of flour. 
After one minute add half a pint of broth or stock, pep- 
per and salt, and a very small quantity of Worcest'T 
sauce. 

VEAI, (".KAVY. 

Rones, any cold remnants of veal, one^half pint of 
water, an onion, a saltspoonful of minced lemon peel, a 
little salt, a blade of mace, a few drops of the juice of 
the lemon, butter and flour, Place all the ingredients 
(excepting the lemon jaice and flour) into a stewpan 
and allow them to simmer for one hour. Strain into a 
basm. Add a thickening of butter and flour mixed witii 
a little water, also the lemon juice. Boil and serve very 
hot. Flavour with tomato sauce or ketchup. 

COLOURING FOR SOUPS OR GRAVIES. 

Put four ounces of lump sugar, a gill of water, and 
half an ounce of the finest butter into a small tosser, 
and set it over a gentle fire. Stir it with a wooden 
spoon, till of a bright brown. Then add half a pint of 
water ; boll, skim, and when cold, bottle and cork it 
close. Add to soup or gravy as much of this as will 
give a proper colour. 

WHITE FLOUR GRAVY Ff'R VEGETABLES OR FISH. 

Take two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, and two of 
flour aud blend, then boil with, milk or water, to a light 
creamv consistency, seasoning with pepper and salt, if 
for fresh fish or vegetables. 



104 



THE BKKADMAKHK's COOKING LESSONS. 



"i 



i- 



t 



ON SALADS. 

What is more refreshing than salads when your appe- 
tite seems to have deserted you, or even after a capa- 
cious dinner— the nice, fresh green, and crisp salad, full 
of Hfe and health, which seems to invigorate the palate 
and dispose the masticating powers to a much longer 
duration. The herbaceous plants which exist fit for 
food for man are more numerous than maybe imagined, 
and when we reflect how many of these, for want ol 
knowledge, are allowed to rot and decompose m the 
fields and gardens, we ought, without loss of time, to 
make ourselves acquainted with their different natures 
forms, and vary our food as the season changes. 
Although nature has provided all these different herbs 
and plants as food for man at various periods of the 
year, and perhaps at one period more abundant than 
another, when there were so many ready to assist in 
purifying and cleansing the blood, yet it would be ad- 
visable to grow some at other seasons, in order that the 
health may be properly nourished. The Spanish pro- 
verb says that " to make a perfect salad, there should 
be a miser for oil, a spendthrift for vinegar, a wise man 
for salt, and a madcap to stir the ingredients up and 
mix them welltogetlier." 

VEGETABLES FOR SALADS. 

Beetroot, lettuce, onions, potatoes, celery, cucumbers, 
lentils, cabbage, water cress, marsh mallow, marigold, 
peas, tomatoes, radish, cauliflower; all the above may 
be used judiciously in salad, if properly seasoned, ac- 
cording to the following directions :— 

LETTUCE SALAD. 

Take two large lettuces, remove the faded leaves and 
the coarse green ones, then cut the green top of5, pull 



SAUCES, GRAVIES, SALADS AND RELISHES. 



105 



each leaf off separate, cut it lemit/ncays, and then in four 
or six pieces ; proceed thus until finished. This is 
better without washing. Having cut it all up put it into 
a bowl ; sprinkle over with your fingers a small teaspoon- 
ful of salt, half one of pepper, three of oil, and two of 
English vinegar, or one of French ; with the spoon and 
fork turn the salad lightly in the bowl till well mixed ; 
the less it is handled the :tter. 

The above seasoning is enough for a quarter of a pound 
of lettuce. 

MARSH MALLOW. 

The roots of these should be removed, as likewise the 
iadcd leaves ; dress as for lettuce, eggs and beetroot may 
be introduced in this, being almost a winter salad. 



WATER-CRESSES. 

Wash and pick over the cresses carefully, pluck from 
tlie stems, and pile in the salad bowl, with a dressing of 
vinegar, pepper, salt, and sugar, well stirred in. 

CABBAGE SALAD, OR COLD SLAW. 

One head of fine white cabbage, minced fine, three 
hard-boiled eggs, two tablespoonfuls salad oil, two tea- 
spoonfuls wliite sugar, one teaspoon ful salt, one tea- 
spoonful pepper, one teaspoonful made mustard, one 
teacupful vinegar. Mix as for lettuce, and pour upon 
the chopped cabbage. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

Two cabbages, chopped fine ; sprinkle with salt ; let 
stand over night. One pint vinegar, one-half cup ground 
mustard, three eggs. Beat eggs thoroughly and add to 
boiling vinegar. Wet the mustard with cold water or 
vinegar, add to the boiling vinegar ; pepper and salt to 
taste, and let all come to a boii, pour over ciibbage, and 
stir thorouglily together. 



ill 



106 




THE HRUAI^MAKEr's COOKING LESSONS. 
DRESSING I-OK CABBAGE. 



One egg. one teaspoon mustard, one teaspoon salt. 
one teaspoon sugar, one-half cup vir.egar, one-halt eup 
milk. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Beat four eggs ligl.t, add one tablespoon n.ixcJ .nus- 
tard, one-half teaspoon salt, five tablespoons vn.ega , 
lUtle cayenne pepper ; unK well, then stand u> ad si 

filled with boiling .ater; «'-", -"^■" ."'"'"f ' " , , 
tablespoon of butter ; cook m,t,l a hltle tluck. . ll an 
luslard, stirrmg constantly. If desired >t ,nay be borled 
until thicker, then thinned with uulk or cream. 

ClIICKKN S.M.AI). 

Use the white UK.al of two good sized chickens, .and 
celery enough to tnake the ,,roport,on °"--'^"l'\;^''^ 
and two-thirds celery ; boil ten eggs ''"^J- "''' "■«, " "^ , 
perfectly smooth with a silver spoon, addn,g gradual > 
four tabl. spoons of ohve oil. one tablespoon of made 
mustard, two teaspoons of salt, one teaspoon of black 
pepper, half a teaspoon of cayenne pepper, and one 
ailespoon of sugar-, add sweet creanr by J-«-eos untt 
about the consistency of batter. Just before sendmg to 
table, mix the dressing with chicken and celery, .and 
moisten «ith sharp vir,ega,. The juice of two lenrous ts 
an improv(Mncnt. 

TOMATO 5, A I. A P. 

Twelve medium-si/.ecl ton.alocs, levied and sliced, 
four harddH>iUd r-gs, one raw (^^K^ well beaten, one 
teaspoonful salt, one-half spoonfnl cayenne pepper, one 
teaspoonful wlnle sugar, one tablespotuiful salad oil, two 
tcaspoonfuls made mustard, one teacupful vinegar. 
Kul) the yolks to :i snu.oth paste, adding by degrees the 
salt, pepper, sugiU , nu.stard. and oil. l^eat the raw 



egg to :i 



froth 



tUt 



I btir in lastly the vinegar 



the tomatoes. 



SAUCES, GRAVIES, SALADS AND RELISHES. 



107 



MAYONAISSE DRESSING. 

Ynll-s of three et^^'s, beaten ; oil added gradually until 

\ oiks OI llll<^ <^ '-r-.r^ ' , , l-icfV the 

. ^titr 'IS cake batter; salt-spoon of salt, lastl> the 
as stitl .IS caKt ^^^^,^ j-^^ 

white of one egg beaten stilL \^''' '\'\,^, 
lobsters or chicken salad, or as a dre-ssmg for cckr> . 

SM.MON SALAD. 

Ono can fresh saln.on, four Inuuhos cdcrv, chop as 
I ; .I-,.., <;iH<f ■ mix with tlie sahiion. 
'"';:t.-t 'teaspoon of .nus.arch t.o tahlcspocms 
• on- of two CRS, salt to taslo, and a httle 

:;;Xp;!p::f-u.::;:.hK..aa,uoth.sahnon3,.st 

before serving. o„„,rrniT 

WELSH RAKl.Ul r. 

Wp nr,kc a Welsh rarebit by .n.-ltin- K.io.l ..Ul cheese 
^.i^H ; 1 itae vine«ar, bntter an.l tnilk a,„l l-ont^.n, tt 
over brea.l. toasteJ or untoaste,!. as we happen to fancy. 



SOUPS. 



REMARKS ON PKEPARING ST(M:K. 
As son,, is practieallv the essence of annnal fo<..l, the 
,„.'^, 'meats an.l ponitrv forms the bas,s or s o,.^ 
on, which they are nnnle. The eeonotny and whole- 
"""' ' ' . „,i,i,l 11 is the proper eom- 

some.iess of sonp is p,ov,,l.al. It ,' ' .,„„,,^h 

,„,„„ment of a n.id-day .neal or dnn.e . I h.^ st. mac 
„„i,,<lv ahs,>rbs the hot. well seasoned l.q.uds. and it 
sUrs all the Klands ituo an attttnde of healtldnl rea.hness 

for th<- f(^od ■-' tt)llo\v. _ . 1 ♦ 

' Sonp shonld. therefore, not be an "-— l'-;^'; ," 
form a part of ,verv .limter. To be prepared for such 
1 :;;:.,!;, certam parts of fresh nterts, me-at re.nnan.s, 



!'■ ■ 



108 



THE BREADMAKEKS COOKING LESSONS. 




and cracked bones, which might otherwise ^o to waste 
should be steeped or slowly heated without salting. As 
a half teaspoonful of soda to each quart of water will 
prevent coagulation, and secure more perfect extraction 
of the juices of the meat, we recommend its use mvari- 
ably. Commence by innnersing the meats, after careful 
washing in a kettle of cold water, and bring the whole 
slowly to a boil, keeping the pot well covered. When 
the strength of the meat is extracted, season with salt, 
strain and set in a refrigerator or cool place for twenty- 
four hours before using, as age, so long as it is kept 
sweet, improves it. 

This stock becomes noodle soup, barley soup, macaroni 
soup, vermicelli soup, onion soup, celery soup, etc., etc., 
as the case may be, in all cases being careful not to 
scorch; and after taking the flavour, or cooking the 
the various cereals such as barley, rice, noodles, celery, 
etc., etc., it is only desirable to bring the stock to a boil 
after mixing. Serve very hot, as therein lies the effi- 
ciency of soup as ail appetizer. 

NOODLES FOR SOUP. 

Beat four eggs very light, add a pinch of salt and flour 
enough to make a stiff batter; roll out thin, sprinkle 
with flour and roll up tight ; when ready for use cut in 
thin slices. 

CHICKEN SOUP. 

Save the broth after boiling chickens, and to it add 
two onions thinly sliced ; boil twenty minutes, season 
with salt and pepper, add two beaten eggs and serve. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

One can of tomatoes, one quart boiling water ; strain 
and add one-half teaspoonful soda, one pint milk, a little 
butter, pepper and salt ; Icl it scald, not boil; add two 
rolled crackers. 



SOUPS. 



109 



MACARONI SOUP. 

Boil one-half pound macavoni until quite tender, and 
place HI soup tureen, and pour the soup over it— the 
last thing. 

VERMICELLI SOUP. 

Vermicelli will only need to be soaked a short time- 
not boiled. 

GIBLET SOUP. 

Take three sets of ducks" giblets, two pounds of 
beef, some bones, shank bones or two legs of mutton, 
three onions, some herbs, pepper and salt, carrots, three 
quarts of water, one-quarter pint of cream, one ounce 
Df butter, one spoonful of flour. Thoroughly clean three 
sets of ducks' giblets, cut them in pieces, and stew with 
two pounds of beef, some bones, the shank bones of two 
le<rs of mutton, three small onions, some herbs, pepper 
and salt to taste, and carrots, for three hours in three 
quarts of water. Strain and skim, add one-quarter pint 
of cream mixed with one ounce of butter kneaded with 
a spoonful of flour and serve with the giblets. (Only 
the gizzard should be cut.) 

GREEN PEA SOUP. 

Take four pounds of beef, half peck of green peas, one 
gallon of water, half cup of rice-flour, salt, pepper and 
chopped parsley. Four pounds beef, cut into sma 1 
pieces, half a peck of green peas, one gallon water, halt 
a cup of rice-flour, salt, pepper and chopped parsley ; 
boil the empty pods of the peas in the water one horn- 
before putting in the beef. Strain them out add the 
beef and boil slowly for an hour and a halt longer. 
Half an hour before serving, add the shelled peas, and 
twenty minutes later, the rice flour, with salt, pepper 
and parsley. After adding the ricc-flour, stir frequently, 
to prevent scorching. Strain into a hot turccu. 



no 



THE BRliAimAKI.KS CUOKIXC. Li.SSONS. 



CKLF.RY SOUP. 

Take the white part of tlm^' licads of celery, half ^ 
pound office, one onion, one quart of soup stock, U\c 
quarts of milk, pepper and salt, and a little roux. Cut 
up the celery and onions very small, boil them in the 
stock until quite tender, add the milk and the rice, and 
boil together until quite a pulp, add pepper and salt and 
a little roux, strain through a fine hair sieve or metal 
strainer, and boil a few minutes, taking care it does not 
burn. Serve some small croutons of fried bread with it. 






Ml'Il AGATAWN'Y. 

Take one chicken or rabbit, butter, flour, two quarts 
of veal stock, salt, white; pepj^er, curry powder, cayenne 
pepper and salt, one large spoonful of rice, half pint of 
cream. Stew a chicken or a rabbit in a little butter 
until tender, and when done wash in warm water. Put 
a little butter and (lour in another stewpan, stir for five 
minutes, then add two quarts of good veal stock in 
which you have boiled carrots, turnips, celery and 
onions ; the stock being also flavoured with salt and 
white pepper, and carefully skimmed and strained. Boil 
for fifteen minutes, then add the chicken or rabbit cut in 
small pieces, flavour with curry powder, cayenne pepper 
and salt, put in a large spooi il of rice, and boil until 
the rice is tender. Skun carefully, and before serving 
stir in half a pint of cream. The quantity of curry 
Dowder nuist depend upon taste ; two tablespoonfuls 
will probably be suiiicient tor this (juantity of soup. 

OX'IAir, SOUF. 

Take one oxtail, M'g. tables, onions, allspice, one 
head of celery, oiic qu.irt of water, nn.e quart of soup 
stock, a pmch of pepper, sugar and salt, a little sherry 
some roux, Cut up the oxtail into small pieces, tluow 






SOUPS. 



Ill 



tlu'in into 
boil, and throw 



cold water with a litl 



\c salt,brin,L; th.tn to the 



IJK'Ill iuu 



1(MU <-'»> 



1,1 waU-r. Cut up 



the 



vi'Se 



tablrs into a sUwpan. l 



•» ,U"C 



the oxtail on thr lop, 



co\ 



er with the water an 



1 stock, let it sinnnrr un 



til the 



o 



xtail is quite tenc 



Icr, take out the piece 



s o 



f tail, add 



the; roux to the k^ravy 
lloilwellto-ether, strai 



dso the sn.uar an 



I the s-'asonni! 



n 



throu-h a hne luar sieve 



lal 



nil 



care to pass 



tl 



h; veift 



table pulp t 



avo 



ii.ih, add til 



sherry 
Let It Stan 



drop in the pieces o 



f i:uh aiul brni;.; tothebnil. 



1 on the side of th- stove u.Uil wa 



n 



tr.l 



AI.MO- 



SOUl' 



Some 
chm anion 
mas supper, 
simplicity 



A-eet aim 



onds, 



pount 



U-d white su.-^ar, ponn 



ded 



bread, ddiis is t 



usetu 



I dish for a Clirist- 



and is eaten 



hot. It is of almost Arcat 



lian 



to 



t rid of the 



t almnnds in boiling water 
husk, skin and pound them in a mor- 



Throw some swee 



tar \vi 



poun 



th 



so 



me // 



Jii!u:-'>^'Hf'»i wat(;r, 



ai 



Ulin 



eurees 



ded white su-ar and pounc 



led 



cinnam 



by d 

on ; turn it 



(US 



out on a plate or 

tire, previously liniiu;" t 



h, which must 



he bottom with fm-vrs 



be able to stand the 
tb f'nu'-crs of bread 



pow- 



der 



C.( 



\ will 



dients over a <- 



I cnmanio 
Irar tire a 



n. 'Ldiorou;-;!! 



ly heat these ingrc- 



ain 



MH.K SOU I' W 



1 serve. 

ill I Vl'.KMlCF.I.I.I. 



11 (quantity of salt mt 



() live 



pints of boil- 



Throw a ...mi. .[........^v ... .^.^^- . ;^ ^^_^^^.^.^ ^, 

T^tp.^:C'; .aU,:.',......-. ps,a..ac..„....,.e 

to sW U v..> 1. 1 . II The aaa.uon of a l.t.lc 

'''""ft:S^Z^'^''^'^-"- ,make..h,sa 

poiu.ded susa. .... 1 dcHr.ipt.o.i, urv, 

^'■^^!:;;r::"o :■-"-.-«"-■•' "--'"'''\r^'^-^''' 
::"::i^a:c:^u;,w.uhc,.,....ca,.....u...-.aucrp.o. 

portions to the milk 



K. 



112 



TH1-: BKIiAO.MAKi:K's COOKING LESSONS. 




BARLEY SOUP. 

Take half pint of pearl barley, one quart of soup 
stock, the yolk of one egg, one gill of cream, half pat of 
fresh butter, bread. Boil half a pint of pearl barley in 
a quart of white stock till it is reduced to a pulp, pass 
it through a hair sieve, and add to it as much well- 
flavoured white stock as will give a puree of the consis- 
tency of cream ; put the soup on the fire, when it boils 
stir into it, off the fire, the yolk of an egg beaten up with 
a gill of cream ; add half a pat of fresh butter, and serve 
with small dice of bread fried in butter. 

RlCli-l-l.OLR SOUP. 

Mix to a smooth batter, with a little cold broth or 
soup stock, eight ounces of fine rice tlour, and })()ur it 
into a couple of quarts of fast boiling broth or gravy 
soup. Add to it a seasoning of mace and cayenne, with 
a little salt if needful. It will require but ten minutes 
boiling. Two dessert spoonfuls of currie powder, and 
the strained juice of half a moderate sized lemon, will 
greatly improve this soup ; it may also be converted into 
a good common white soup (if it be made of real stock) 
by the addition of three-quarters of a pint of thick cream 
to the rice. 

TAPIOCA SOUP. 

Take one pint of soup slock, one ounce of tapioca, 
yolks of two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of cream or milk, 
pepper and salt, faring tlie stock on to boil, then stir in 
gradually the tapioca which should be previously well 
soaked, and'allow it to simmer until cpiite clear, then to 
the yolks of the eggs add the cream or milk and stir 
with wooden spoon, strain into basin. Take stock from 
the fire to cool a little, add by degrees three tablespoon- 
fuls of it to the mixture, stirring well all the time. 
Then mix all togctlur, stir well, and add pepper and 
salt to taste. Warm before servin ,, hut do not boil. 



SOUPS. 



113 



SCOTCH MUTTON BROTH. 



Take two quarts of water, neck of mutton, ve^retables, 



onions, four large spoon 



fuls of Scotch barley, salt to 



taste, some chopped parsley. Soak a neck of mutton 
ater for an hour ; cut ofT the scrag, and put it mto 



m w 



a stew-pot with two quarts of water, .^s soon as it 
boils skim it well, and then simmer it an honr and a 
half; then take the best end of the mutton, cut it into 
pieces (two bones in each), many as you think proper ; 
skim the moment the fresh meat boils up, and every 
quarter of an hour afterwards. Have ready the vege- 
tables and onions, all cut, but not small, and put them 
in soon enough to get quite tender ; add four large spoon- 
fuls of Scotch oarley, first wetted with cold water. The 
meat should stew three hours. Salt to taste, and serve 
all together. Twenty minutes before serving put in some 
chopped parsley. It is an excellent winter dish. 

PUMPKIN SOUP. 

Cut about two pounds of the flesli of the pumpkin or 
gourd into large dice, put it into your pan, with three 
ounces of salt butter or fat ; add two teaspoonfuls ot salt, 
the same of sugar, a little pepper, and half a pint ol 
water ; set on the fire, and stew gently for twenty 
minutes. When in pulp, add two tablespoonsfuls of 
flour, stir round, and moisten with three pints of either 
milk,' skim-milk, or water, l>oil ten minutes longer, and 
serve with fried or toasted bread, cut in dice. 

Pi-.A SOUP. 

Pnt into the iron pot two ounces of dripi)ing, one 
quarter of a pound o^ bacon, cut into dice, two good 
onions sliced; fry v. .n gently u:: M brownish, then 
add one large or two small turnips, the same of carrots, 
one leek, and one licad of celery, all cut tlnn and slant- 
ing (if all these cannot be obtained, use any of them, 



114 



THE BREADMAKKK S COOKING LESSONS. 



W 



|--Ii 



but about the same amount) ; fry for ten minutes more, 
and then add seven quarts of water; boil up, and add 
one pound and a half of split peas with two teaspoon- 
fuls of soda, simmer for two or three hours, until reduci d 
to a pulp, which depends on the quality of the peas, then 
add two tablespooniuls of salt, one of sugar, one of dried 
mint ; mix half a pound of Hour smooth in a pint of 
water, stir it well ; puur in the soup, boil thirty minutes, 
and serve. 

VGETABLE MARROW SOUP. 

Peel, and take out the inside, if seeded, cut in slices 
about two pounds ; put in saucepan on tlie liie, with a 
quarter of a pound of butter or fal ; add two teaspoon- 
fulsof salt, one of sugar, and one quarter of the same of 
pepper a gill of water, and one onion sliced ; stew gently 
until in pulp, then add two tablespoonfuls of flour, and 
proceed as for i)unipkin soup. 

H0DGl-:-r01)GE SOUP. 

Cut two pounds of fresh scrag of mutton into small 
pieces, put into a stewi)an, with tince quarts of cold 
water, and a tablespoonful of salt, one ditto of sugar, 
half a ditto of i)epper ; set it on the inc ; when boiling, 
place it at the side to sinuncr for one hour; keep 
it skimmed ; wash a large carrot, tw^j tr.vnips, t^^o 
onions, and six small cnbbage lettuces; cut them up, 
and place in the pot, and sinuner till done. A pint of 
green peas, if in season, may be added. A carrot grated 
is an improvement. If in winter, use cabbage instep^ 
of lettuce. Serve the meat with it. 



ovst1':r soup. 
Two quarts of oysters, one ([u irt of milk, two table- 
spoonfuls butter, ou',^. teacupful water. Strain th liquor 
from the oysters, add to it the w'ater, ami set it over the 
fire to heat slowly, in a covere;! vessel. When it is near 



SOUPS. 



115 



,,„i,i„„, scaso,, .-.tl, ix.ppor an, salt, and s, r , . c m , 
^ftcr wliicb stir constantly, unl.ss. as .s wisest, you ca 
1 i.,„or i.> a vessel set u, a pot of boiUn« w^ter. Wh n 
c sofp again ncars tl,e boiling-point, ,.cUl the oysters, 

aul I then, stew „nt,l they •■ruffle" on .he e.,e. 

I'h s will be in ahont five minutes. Tl e„ put n, the 

hntter and stir well until it ,s n.etted, when the soup ,s 

ready for use. 

SODA IN SOUPS. 

A pinch of soda p.h in th,- w.Uer 1-fore hoihni- dned 
beans or split peas will ..take a wo.,derfu. d.he.encc .„ 
soups made froni them. 



VEGETABLES. 



REM.'VRKS ON SICLIXTION. 
As re-ards vegetation h. ge,.eral, the , y, ean soon 
defe^t'he glowing freshn.-ss, wh,.h nature ,epos,^ 
„„on such .Iclicate articles of lood as pea- , asp.,ra„us 
uc n vs, beans, spinach, salads of ah kinds. Any o. 
?he aLve will not keep fresh after bemg cut longer 
ban twenty-four h«u,s d..ring the sum.n,-r, an, twice 
ha^t ne in winter. .Ml vegetables sh,.. ,1 be kept in 
„l.,r,. as nossible; still, whe.. the bloom dis- 

:;:::: , tll'to .nake'yo..r bar,:.. .as they then 

^b had ,-heaper ; do not, however b.,y a.,y vegetable 
rany part of winch decomposition has con,n„„ce.l to 
aiiy extent, as. if eaten in this state, it w.U be lou,,.. 

innirious to health. 

Ve^bles such as cabbage. ca,.;iHower, common 
'^; carrots, turn.p-tops. leeks, ee;ery ar,„hokes, 

both globe and Jer..sale..i. w.U keep mucn long, . 



116 



THE bKEAOMAKEk's COOKING LESSONS. 






\' -a 




Another way to ascertain if vegetables are old gath- 
ered, is to break a piece off any one with the hand ; if 
it snaps crisply it is fresh ; if, on the contrary, it has a 
flabby appearance, and is of a softish consistency, it is 
stale, and should be bought accordingly. 

A dash of soda renders all green vegetables more 
nutritious, tender and easy of digestion, particularly, 
cabbage, spinach and beans. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 

1. Have them fresh as possible. Summer vegetables 
should be cooked on the same day that they are gathered. 

2. Look them over and wash well, cutting out all 
decayed or unripe parts. 

3. Lay them wrtien peeled in cold water for some time 
before using. 

4. Always let the wattj: boil before putting them in 
and contiiuie to boil until done. 

Tur/i/ps. —Should be peeled and boiled from forty 
minutes to an hour. 

Btr/s.—Boil from oj c to two hours : ihen put in cc.d 
water and slip the skin off. 

S/>/fi(r<:/i.— Boil twenty minutes. 

FarsHips.--Bo\\ from twenty to thirty minutes. 

Onions.— Best boiled in two or three waters ; adding 
!• -ik the last time. 

.v-'/'A., / Beans. — Should be boiled one hour. 

.VM/ y^ains.- -Require half an hour to an hour. 

Gneu Com. — Boil twenty or thirty minutes. 

Green Feas.- -Should be boiled in as little water as 
;.ossible; boil twenty minutes. 

Asparagus. — Same as peas ; serve on toast with cream 

gravy. 

Winter Squash. -Cut in pieces and boil twenty to forty 
jninutes in small quantity of water ; when done, press 



VKGI-TABI IS. 



117 



th'' water out, mash smooth, and season with butter, 

pepper and salt. 

Cadl>age.—Shou\d be boiled from one-half hour to one 
hour, in plenty of water; salt wiiile boiling. 



P O T .\ TOES. 
The potato is'the king of vegetables in ihis . limate. 
Potatoes boiled or baked should be cooked v^ their 
skins, especially in boiling, a potato should lot be 
wounded, as it permits the real nutrition to escape, and 
then it is poured off with the water in draining. A'ash 
clean and boil until soft clear through ; drain, salt, and 
return to the fire till the water is all evaporated ; three 
or i^ve minutes will suffice; peel and serve in an open 
dish. 

HOW TO CHOOSE POTATOES. 

Observe, as a general rule, that the smaller the eye 
the belter' the potato, as when ^hey are too full in the 
eye they are either of an inferior quality, or are rum ng 
to seed. To ascertain if they are sound, nip a pi :ce 
from the thickest end with your finger nail ; if good, :he 
inside will either be of a white, yellow, or reddish hue, 
according to the sort and quality; if, on the contrary, 
thev are spotted, they are bad, or getting so ; but though 
this part may be slightly touched, by cutting a httle .if 
the outside thev may prove fit for boiling; tiiough they 
oucrht to be bought, when in thi ate, at a cheap rate. 
Potatoes always get bad in the spring of the year, as 
then the old ones are going out, and the new ones for 
some time continue to possess but little flavour, and are 
watery when boiled. The old ones ought to be peeled 
and steamed, and mashed, or baked in an oven, under 



a joint, or 



fried in fat; for when done whole in their 



118 



THE BRHADMAKKR's COOKING LESSONS. 



«n 




m 




skins, at this time of the year, the slightest spot spoils 
their flavour. The new ones are tasteless and watery, 
and, as I described above to you, are much better cooked 
when put in very hot water, but not boiling, than when 
put in cold. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Wash and wipe some large ripe potatoes, and bake in 
a quick oven until tender, say from three-quarters of an 
hour to an liour, if of a good size. 

POTATO CAKES. 

Make cold mashed potato into flat cakes ; flour and 
fry in lard, or good sweet dripping, until they are a light 
brown. 

BROILED POTATOES. 

Boil eight or ten large potatoes; when cold, slice 
them lengthways and put on a toaster or fine wire 
broiler over a hot fire ; when browned, remove ; salt, 
and pour melted butter over them. 

POTATOES BOILED IN LARD. 

Pare and slice thick eight or ten large potatoes. Half 
fill a good sized kettle with lard or drippings. When 
boiling put in the potatoes ; cook until tender and 
brown ; then take out with a skimmer into a colander 
to drain off any grease. Sprinkle salt over them. Be 
sure and not fill the kettle too full with potatoes as it is 
better to cook at a time only what the lard covers. 

NEW POTATOES 

should be cleaned, and the skin rubbed off with a coarse 
cloth ; add a little salt if the skin is dry. Put them into 
very liot water, and boil from fifteen to twenty minutes. 
Take tluin out of the water and let them drain before 
sending to tabic, throwing some salt over th.cm. If very 
small, tliey will not take above ten minutes. 



VEOliTAUt.IiS. 



119 



ROAST SWEF.T I'OTATOFS. 

Select those of inufoim size, «asl,. wipe, and roast 

unUl you can tell, by gently press.ng .],■ largest between 

the t,!-'er and tlunnb, tluU it ,s ntellow t uoughutit. 

Serve in tbeu- jackets. Sweet, as well as l"s» po^ - 

are very good lor picnic luncheon, roasted m hot ashes. 

BollJ;i) SV.ULT POTATOF.S. 

Have then> all as nearly the sanre size as possd.e; 
puVintocold w.ater. wUhont any salt, and bo.l unt 1 a 
ok will eastly p.erce the largest. Tnrn oil the w.Uer 
and lay them n, the oven to dry fur hve nrnn,tes. Peel 
before sending to table. 

FKIKD SWEET POTATOES. 

Parboil them, skin and cut lengthw.se into slices a 
quarter of an tnch tlnck. Fry nr sweet dr.ppnrg or 

'"STd boile.i potatoes may be cooked n, this way Or 
vou can chop them up with an equal ciuautU) of cok 
I "h'otatoel, put them nUo ^' ^vang-pan w,0> a good 
lump of butter, and stir until they are hot and sbghtly 
brown. 



CA i5i'>Ar. 1*:, 1':tc. 

[Always boil rabba^*^ in iwt. waters 1 
S\U1'.1>.KKAUT. 

Shred or chop the .abbage fine. Lin.- a barrel, keg 
or a with cabbagedeaves on the bottom .>n,l s.des 
Pu n Tlayer of tl,: cut cabbage, three inches nr depth 
^ es down well and sprinkle whb four tablesi-oonluls 
TsaU When you have packe.l five layers n, Ins way, 
Ji bard with -t board <ut to fit loosely on the ms.de 
f ,1„. barrel oi iar. I'm I'c^'vy weights on this, or 
of the barrel oi j.i ,.,, ;i ,1,,. r,a.bage is a com- 

pound with a wooden beet.. u„.i, tl.< cun.^.t,- 



120 



THE BREADMAKER S COOKING LESSONS. 



i' 




pact mass, when remove the board and put in more 
layers of salt and ohred cabbage, repeating the pound- 
ing every four or five layers, until the vessel is full. 
Cover with leaves and put the board on the top of these 
with a heavy weight to keep it down. Set all away to 
ferment. In three weeks remove the scum, and if need 
be, cover with water. Keep in a cool dry cellar. It 
can be eaten raw or boiled, and seasoned with pork. 

GREEN PEAS. 

This, of all the pulse vegetables, is the most liked, 
and the most in use; and perhaps in no country in the 
world can they be obtained in the same perfection as in 
America. The water should be boiling, and say one 
quart of peas to two quarts of water, with the same 
amount of salt as before ; put the peas in, leave the 
cover off, and boil till tender ; drain, and serve, with a 
piece of butter put on the dish. If mint or savoury is 
liked, add it while boiling. 

BROAD OR WINDSOR BEANS. 

The appearance of this vegetable is generally spoiled 
because it is boiled with a piece of bacon ; they ought 
to be boiled alone like the peas, and very fast, and if 
young do not take longer. They should be served with 
parsley and butter. When the skin is v/rinkled they 
are done. 

FRENCH AND KIDNEY BEANS. 

Head, tail, and string them ; cut them down in thin 
strips, or in the middle, throw them into boiling water, 
in which a little more salt than usual has been put ; boil 
for fifteen minutes and serve either plain or with parsley 
and butter, and a little pepper and salt. These are 
considered exceedingly wholesome for persons who take 
mucli exercise, and eat hx ely (jf animal fuod ; they purify 
the salt of the blood. 



VEGETABLES. 



121 



CAULIFLOWER 

should be put in salt and water some time before cook- 
ing, and requires close examination that no insects are 
inside ; cut oft" the root and the large leaves ; they should 
be boiled in boiling water, and will take about ten 
minutes. There are a variety of ways of using these 
vegetables, but in general a little too complicated for 
our work. 

STEWED CAULIFLOWERS. 

Use for this dish the smaller and more indifferent 
cauliflowers. Cut them mto small clusters ; lay in cold 
salt and water half an hour, and stew fifteen minutes in 
boihng water. Turn most of this off, leaving but half a 
teacupful in the saucepan. Add to this a half cupful of 
milk thickened with a very little rice or wheat flour, and 
two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, pepper and salt. 
Shake the saucepan over the fire gently until it boils; 
take out the cauliflowers with a perforated skimmer, lay 
in order upon a dish, and pour the sauce over them. 

SCALLOPED CAULIFLOWER. 

Boil until tender, clip into neat clusters and pack— 
the stems downward— in a buttered pudding-dish. Beat 
up a cupful of bread crumbs to a soft paste with two 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter and three of cream or 
milk ; season with pepper and salt, bind with a l)eaten 
egg, and with this cover the cauliflower. Cover the 
dish closely and bake six minutes. 

rOlLED ONIONS. 

Cut off tops and tails, and skin them. Lay in cold 
water half a hour, then put into a saucepan with enough 
boiling water to cover them. Cook fifteen minutes and 
drain '^off the water, re-covering them with more from 
the boiling tea-kettle. Boil until a straw will pierce 



1 1 



122 



THE BREADMAKER's COOKING LESSONS. 





them ; dram and put into a dish with pepper, salt, and 
plenty of butter. Send around drawn butter with them. 
Never cook onions in an iron pot. 

STEWED ONIONS. 

YounfT onions should always be cooked in this way. 
Top, tail, and skin them, lay them in cold water half an 
hour or more, then put into a saucepan with hot water 
enough to cover them. When half done, throw off all 
the water, except a small teacupful-less, if your mess 
is small; add a like quantity of milk, a great spoonful 
of butter, with pepper and salt to taste. Stew gently 
until tender, and turn into a deep dish. If the onions 
are strong and largo, boil m three waters, throwing 
away all of the first and second, and reserving a very 
little of the third to mix with the milk. 

ONIONS FKII-.D. 

Poel and slice and fry in lard or butter : season with 
pepper and salt, and serve hot. 

BAKED SQUASH. 

Cut-in pieces, scrape well, bake from one to one and 
a half hours, according to the thickness ot Lhe squash ; 
to be eaten with salt and butter as sweet potatoes. 

FRIED SQUASHES. 

Cut the squash into thin slices, and sprinkle it with 
salt • let It stand a few moments ; tlien beat two eggs, 
and'dq) the squash into the egg; then fry it brown in 
butter. 

SUMMER SQUASHES. 

Cook them whole ; when tender, if large, skin and 
remove the seeds ; if small, this will not be necessary ; 
drain and press the water out with a plate ; then put 
them in a stew-pan, and season wt !! with butter, pepper, 
and salt, and a tablespoonful of cream. 




VliGETABLES. 



123 



ROASTKD (;ki:i:n corm. 
Turn b.i.-k the Im-k^ upon the stalk, pick off the silk, 
recover with tlie hu ^ks closely as possible, aiul roast in 
the hot .shes of a wood-lire. Eat with butter, sa t, and 
pepper, out of doors, in tlu' forest, or on the beach. 

CORN OVSTKRS. 

Ei>.-bA ears of swc-et corn, grated; two cups of in.lk, 
three%ggs, salt and pepper; flour enough to make a 
batter. Put a tabU spoonful of butler into a fry.ng-pan 
and drop the- nv.xtnre into the hoi bulter-a spoonfu in 
a place ; brown on both .ides. Serve hot for breaktast 
or as a side dish for dinner. 

SMlsn- OK OVSTHR-I'I.ANT (sTEWED). 

Scrape the roots, dropping each into cold water as 
soon as it is cleansed. Exposure to the air blackens 
hem. Cut in pieces an inch long, put into a saucepan 
vhh hot water enough to cover them, and stew unti 
tender Turn off nea. ly all the water, and add a cupful 
of cold milk. Stew ten minutc-s after this begins to bod; 
put in a great lump of butter, cut into bits, and rollec 
Tn flour ; Peppc:r and salt to taste. Boil up once, and 
serve. Tlie taste is curiously like that of stewed oysters. 

F.GG FLANT. 

Pare and cut in slices half an inch thick; sprinkle 
with salt; cover and let stand for an hour. Rinse in 
clear cold water; wipe each slice dry ; dip hist in beaten 
eu.g then in rolled cracker or bread crumbs. Season 
with pepper and salt, and fry brown in butter. 

FRll'.U EGG-PLANT. 

Slice the eKUplanl ^'l 1«'^' ''^'f ^" ''"^'' ""'='' ' P'"'' 
euch piece cavdully, .n,l lay in salt am! uater, pultmy 
a plate upon the top to keep it unde, the 1-nne, and let 




124 



THE BKliADMAKEu's COOKING LlibSONS. 





them alone for an hour or more. Wipe each slice, dip 
in beaten egg, then in cracker-crumbs, and fry in hot 
lard until well done and nicely browned. 

SUCCOTASH. 

One pint of green corn cut frcMu the cob, and two- 
thirds of a pint of Lima beans ; let them stew in just 
enough water to cover them until tender, then season 
with butter, pepper, salt, and a little milk ; simmer to- 
gether a few moments and serve. 

CANADIAN BAKED BF.ANS. 

Boil the beans until they begin to crack, with a pound 
or two of salt fat pork ; put the beans in the baking- 
pan ; score the pork across the top, and settle in the 
middle ; add two tablespoonfuls of sugar or molasses, and 
bake in a moderate oven two hours ; they should be 
very moist when first put into the oven, or they will 
grow too dry in baking. Do not forget the sweetening 
if you want Yankee baked beans. 

SCALLOl'KD TOMATOES. 

Put into an earthen baking dish a layer of cracker 
crumbs and small bits of butter ; then a layer of toma- 
toes with a verv little sugar sprinkled over them ; then 
another layer of cracker crumbs seasoned with butter, 
and a layer of tomatoes, until your dish is full, with the 
cracker crumbs at the top ; pOur over all this a little 
water to moisten, and bake half an hour. 

CORN AND TOMATOES. 

Take equal quantities of green corn cut from the cob, 
and tomatoes sliced and peeled. Stew together half an 
hour; season with pepper, salt, and a very little sugar. 
Stew fifteen minutes longer, and stir in a great lump of 
butter. Five minutes later, pour out and serve. 



VEGETABLliH. 



125 



STEWED TOMATOES. 

Put ripe tomatoes into hot water and skin them ; then 
throw them into an earthtn stew pan, (a new tin will 
do, but not so K^ood) ; cut up and let the tomatoes cook 
gently a few minutes; season with butter, pepper, salt, 
and serve. Or you may add bread crumbs and sugar 
to the tomatoes if preferred. Some cooks stew toniatoes 
for a long time, but the flavor is hner if allowed to snn- 
mer but a few moments, just sufficient time to heat well 
through. 

RAW TOMATOES. 

Do not loosen skin with scalding water. It impairs 
the flavor and destroys the crispness. Pare with a keen 
knife, slice and lay in a glass dish. Season with pepper 
salt, and vinegar, stirring a piece of ice rapidly around 
in the dressing before pouring it over the tomatoes, and 
setting the dish in the refrigerator until wanted. There 
is no salad, excepting, perhaps, lettuce and cucumbers, 
that is more improved by the use of ice than tomatoes. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Wash, wipe and then cut in two ; place them in a 
baking tin with the skin side down, and season with 
peppe^'r and salt, and place in a hot oven ; take up care- 
fully when done, and put bits of butter on each piece of 
tomato. 

FRIED TOMATOES. 

Cut a large Feejee tomato in half, flour the cut side, 
heat very hot, and put the floured side down ; when 
brown on one side, turn ; when done, pour over a teacup 
of hot cream or rich milk. 

MOCK OYSTERS. 

Three grated parsnips, three eggs, one teaspoonful of 
salt, one teacupful of sweet cream, butter half llie size of 



an egg, 



three tablespoonsfuls of flour. Fry as pancu 



keS. 



126 



THE BREAUMAKER's COOKING LESSONS. 



VEGETABLE OYSTERS. 

One bunch of oysters ; boil and mash. One pint ot 
sour milk, half a teaspoonful of soda ; tlour to niaki? a 
batter; add two e^(gs, beaten, and the oysters, i'ly in 
hot laril— drop in spoonfuls, 

RAW CUCUMRI'RS. 

Pare neatly from end to end, and lay in ice-\v;itc r one 
hour. Wipe them and slice thin. Season with ju'pper. 
salt, and vine.s^ar — and oil, if you wish— laying some bits 
of ice amoui]^ them, with thin slices of onion. Cucnni- 
bers should be gathered while the dew is on them, and 
eaten the same day. Leave them in a cool place until 
you are ready to pare them. 

I'KI F.n CLJCUMHERS. 

Pare and lay in ice-water half an hour. Cut length- 
wise into slices nearly half an inch thick, and lay in ice- 
water ten minutes longer. Wipe each })iecc dry with a 
soft cloth, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and dredge 
with flour. Fry to a delicate brown in sweet clarified 
dripping, nice lard, or butter. 

Many declare that cucumbers are never fit to eat 
unless fried, and they are assuredly far more wholesome 
than when served raw. 

BOILED CARROTS. 

Take six young carrots, a tablespoonful of salt. Place 
upon the stove two quarts of warm water with the above 
proportion of salt, bring to a boil ; wash and scrape the 
carrots, remove any black specks, cut in halves, plunge 
into the boiling water, and boil until tender; drain, and 
serve upon a hot dish. 

STEWED CARROTS. 

Wash and scrape the carrot ; split the largest. Then 
whiten them in hot water, and th ain them on a sieve ; 
then boil them in weak broth, with salt; then put some 



VEGETABLES. 



12' 



butter in a saucepan, with a dessertspoonful of flour; 
stir it ana brown it. A,M tlu- canols to it, Inuth and 
pepper. Stir, and let all sinnm'V to-cther. 

BEET ROOTS. 

Beet roots make a very pleasant addition l-^vmtcr 
salads, of wliirh they may agreeablv form a lull halt, 
instead of being only used to ornament it. I h.s root is 
eoohng, and very wholesome. It is extnnu ly good 
hoiled, and sliced with a small quantity of onions ; oi 
stewed with whole onions, large or small. 

BOILED BEETS. 

Wash, but do not touch with a knife before they are 
boiled. If cut while raw, they bleed themselves pa e in 
the hot water. 13o,l until tender^if fuU-gvown at least 
two hours. When done, rub off the skins slice i ou.id i 
lar-e, split if young, and buUer w.ll in the dish. Salt 
and .epper to taste. A nice way is to slice tlu m upon 
a;lLhih,nnK a great spoonful of melted butter with 

four or hve of vinegar, pepper and salt, heat to boilm,, 
and pour over the beuts. 

STEWED BICETS. 

Boil voung, sweet beets, until nearly done ; skin and 
sUce tluiu. Put into a saucepan with a nnnce<l shallot 
and parslev, two tablcspooniuls melted butter, a little 
quantity of vinegar, some salt and pepper Set <m the 
tire and simmer twenty minutes, shaking the saucepan 
now and then. Serve with the gravy i>oured over them. 

BOILED I'AKSNU'S. 

If voun-, scrape before cooking ; if old, pare care- 
tully'; and if large, split. Put them into boiling water, 
salted, and boil, if small and tender, from half to three- 
quarters of an hour, if full-grown, more than an hour 

1 , !• 1 ., .1,,..;..^, lM,f ) r.niifr «7f>ll 



When tender, drai 



u'aud slice Icngtluvisc, buttering well 



w 



hen y 



,'OU ( 



lish. 



128 



THE 13KEADMAKEK S COOKING LESSONS. 



FRIED PARSNII'S. 

Boil until tender, scrape off the skin, and eut in thick 
lenf:,nh\vise slices. Dredge with flour and fry in hot 
dripping or lard, turning when one side is browned. 
Drain off every drop of fat ; pepper and serve hot. 

ASPARAGUS. 

After scalping the stalks to cleanse them, place them 
in a vessel of cold water. Tie them up neatly into 
bundles of about twenty-five heads each, then place 
them in a saucepan of boiling water, sprinkling a handful 
of salt over it. When it is boiling remove any scum 
there may be ; the stalks will be tt-uder when they are 
done ; they will take about twenty minutes or half an 
hour ; be careful to take them up the minute they are 
done ; have ready some toast, dip in it the liquor in 
which the asparagus was boiled; dish upon toast, and 
serve with a boat of melted butter. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Take twenty-six or thirty heads of asparagus, good 
rich butter, salt and pepper, five or six eggs. Boil the 
asparagus (after cutting them into pieces of about half 
an inch) for fifteen minutes ; take a cup of rich butter 
and put it into a saucepan ; drain the asparagus, and 
put it with the butter ; heat them to a boil, seasoning 
with pepper and salt, and then pour into a buttered bik- 
ing tin or dish ; break five or six eggs neatly over the 
surface of this, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and put 
it in the oven until the eggs are set nicely. Serve hot. 

ARTICHOKES. 

Wash them well, peel and shape them to a uniform 
size ; throw them into boiling salted water, ^v.c^- let them 
boil fifteen to twenty minutes ; drain them at once 
thoroughly ; put them on a dish and serve with the ol- 



PICKLES. 



129 



lowinf? sauce poured over 'chem. Mix over the fire one 
and a half ounces of butter with a tai^lespoonful of Hour ; 
add half a \nut of boiling water, white pepper, and salt 
to taste ; stir till tlie sauce thic kens, tiien take the sauce- 
pan off the fire, and stir in the yolks of two eggs, beaten 
up with the juice of a lemon, and strained. 

AWTlCHvjKliS (with CRF.AM). 

Prepare and parboil them as in the preceding recipe ; 
then put them into a saucepan with a due allowance of 
white sauce, and let them hnish cooking in this, adding 
at the last a small quantity of cream and grated nutmeg. 

ARTICHOKES (wiTH GRAVY). 

Prepare them as above, cutting them to the size of 
pigeon's eggs. Parboil them for ten minutes, drain them 
and toss them in a saucepan, with a piece of butter; 
then add a small quantity of good clear gravy and a dust 
of pepper. Let them simmer very gently till wanted. 



PICKLES. 



OBSERVATIONS ON PICKLES. 

Glass or stone jars are preferable to any other ; a 
small piece of alum in each jar will make the pickles 
ftrm and crisp. One tablespoonful of sugar to each 
quart of vinegar will be found a very great improvement 
to all pickles. Always use the very best cider or wme 

vinegar. , . , . ^r 

Keep your pickles well covered with vinegar. It you 
u.e around spices, tie them up in thin muslin bags. 
Pickles, well made, arc belter when a year ola llian al 
the end of six months. 



130 



THli ISKKADMAKIiR's COOKING LESSONS. 



Enamelled kettles shouM always be used in prefer- 
ence to those of brass or copper, as the verdigris pro- 
duced by the vinegar on these metals is extremely 
poisonous. For some pickles use cold vinegar, as in 
boiling most of the strength is lost by evaporation. 

If you boil pickles in bell-metal, do not let them stand 
in it one moment when it is off" the fire; and see for 
yourself that it is perfectly clean and newly scoured 
before the vinegar is put in. 

RED CABBAGE PICKI.HS. 

Slice it into a colander, and sprinkle each layer with 
salt ; let it drain two days, then put it into a jar, and 
pour hot vinegar enough to cover, and put a few slices 
of red beet-root. Observe to choose the purple red 
cabbage. Those who like the flavour of spices will boil 
it with the vinegar. Cauliflower cut in branches, and 
thrown in after being salted, will look of a beautiful red. 

PICKLKO CAl'HRS. 

Add fresh vinegar that has been scalded and become 
cold, and tie them close to keep out the air, which makes 
them soft. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Make a brine that will bear up an egg, heat it boiling 
hot, pour it over the cucumbers ; let them stand twenty- 
four hours, or make a cold brine and let it stand forty- 
eight hours. Take the cucumbers and wipe the black 
specks from each one, then take sufficient quantity of 
vinc^Mr to cover them, and add a small lump of alum ; 
put the cucumbers in the brass kettle with the vinegar 
cold, heat them slowly, turning them from the bottom 
several times ; let them stand twenty-four hours ; after- 
wards take three gallons of vinegar if needed to cover 
them ; the size of the cucumbers vary so much, judg- 
ment must be used. Then put three pints of brown 



PICKI.ES. 



131 



irefer- 
s pro- 
cniely 

as in 
I. 

stand 
;ee for 
:.oured 



cr with 
;ir, and 
V slices 
:>le red 
,ill boil 
2S, and 
tul red. 



become 
1 makes 



boiling 
twenty- 
d fort}'- 
le black 
mtity of 
if alum ; 
vinegar 
; bottom 
> ; after- 
to cover 
h, judg- 
f brown 



.ugar, three gills of nnistard seed, a handful of cloves, a 
handful of stick cinnamon, six green pejipcrs, one table- 
sf)oooful of celery seeil, ginger root, a piece of alum the 
size of a walnut ; tie in a muslin bag all the spict's. with 
the peppers, and scald with the vinegar, then pour it 
over the cucumber hot ; add green peas and horse- 
radish cold, 

RAST IN'DIA I'lCKI.i:. 

One hundred cucumbers (large .uul small), one peek 
green tomatoes, one-half peck onions, four caulitlowcrs. 
four red peppers (without the seeds), four heads celery, 
one pint bottle horseradish. Slicc^ all, and stand in salt 
twenty-four hours; then drain, pour overwcak \inegar, 
stand on stove until it comes to a boil ; then drain 
again. One ounce ground cinnamon, one ounce ground 
tumeric, one-half pound mustard, one-quarter pound 
brown sugar ; wet these with cold vinegar ; add li) this 
sufficitMit vinegar to moisten all the pickh^s. Cook all 
together ten minutes. Se.d in bottles while hot. 

One peck green tomatoes, sliced ; six large onions, a 
teacup of salt tlirow'n on over night. I )rain thoroughly, 
then boil m two quarts of water and one quart of vine- 
gar fifteen or twenty minutes ; drain in colander ; then 
take four quarts vinegar, two pounds brown sugar, one- 
half pound white mustard seed, two tablespoonfuls 
cloves, two tablespoonfuls cinnamon, two tablespoonfuls 
ginger, two tablespoonfuls ground mustard, one tea- 
spoonful cayenne pepper ; put all together and cook 
fifteen minutes. 

TOMATO SOY. 

One-half bushel green tomatoes, three onions, three 
green peppers, one-quarter pound mustard secjd, three 
cupfuls sugar, three cabl)ages. Chop the tomatoes and 
onions together (line) ; add to one gallon of the tomatoes 



I k 








132 THE breaumakkk's cooking lessons. 

one cup of salt ; let stand twenty-four hours, drain and 
add the peppers (chopped fine), mustard seed, su-ar 
and other spices to taste. Moisten all with vnu-ar and 
cook until tender. Before bottling add the cabbages 
(chopped), and one cupful chopped horseradish. 

RIPE CUCUMHEK I'ICKEE. 

Pare and scrape out the inside of the cucumber ; put 
in weak brine for twenty-four hours. Make a syrup o 
su^^ar and vinegar ; boil a few slices of the cucumber at 
a iime in this, until they look clear. When the cucum- 
bers are all cooked, boil down the syrup and pour over 
them 

PICKLED WATERMELON. 

Take the green part of the rind of the melon, pare 
and cut in small pieces. To one quart of vinegar add 
two pounds of sugar, one ounce of cassia buds, in this 
boil the rind until clear and tender. 

PICKLED TOMATOES. 

Take small, smooth tomatoes, not very ripe, scald 
them until the skin will slip off easily, and sprinkle salt 
over them. After they have stood twenty-tour hours, 
drain off the juice and pour on a boihng hot pickle com- 
posed of one pound of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of cinna- 
mon and two teaspoonfuls of cloves to every quart ot 
vine-ar Drain off the licpiid, scald it and pour on them 
again, every other day for a week. They will require 
no further care. This is excellent. 

PICKLED CABBAGE. 

Slice white and red cabbage very fine, put into a jar 
alternately, si)rinkle salt on each layer ; also whole 
black pepper, black mustard seed, and cinnamon broken 
n„e; then cover with cold vinegar. It will be ready 
for use in twenty-four hours. 



JPICKI.ES. 



133 



PICKMvD CAUI.II-I.CWF.R. 

Take the whitest fuU-^^rown cauhtlowcr, cut oil the 
thick stock and split the llowcr into ci-lit or ten pioci'S, 
spread them on a large dish and sprinkl willi saU ; let 
lliem stand twenty-four hours, then wash olf the saU ; 
drain them, put tlicm into a tlat jar, scald with salt and 
water (allowing a quarter of a pound of salt to a quart 
of water), cover closely and let it stand until next day ; 
afterwards drain them m a hair sieve and spr(>ad in .i 
warm place to dry for a day and ni-ht. Then put tiuni 
in a glass jar and pour over them a pickle that has been 
prepared as follows : Mix together three ounces of cori- 
ander seed, three ounces of turmeric, one ounce ot mus- 
tard seed and one ounce of ginger. Pouuil the wlioU' 
to a fine powder; put it into three quarts of cider vme- 
gar, set it by the fire in a st jne jar and let it infuse three 
day's. These are the proportions, but the quantity of 
pickle must depend on the quantity of caulifiower, which 
must be well covered by the licpiid ; pour it over the 
tlower and secure the jar closely from the air. 

CHOW-CHOW. 

One caulifiower cut in small pieces, one dozen small 
white onions, two dozen small cucumbers, one (piart of 
string beans, one ounce of black mustard seed, one 
ounce of white mustard seed, one teaspoonful of caNcnne 
pepper, a cpiarter of an ounce of turmt-ric, pieces of 
horseradish cut fine and a gallon of vinegar, or m.Mc. 
S.ald the spices and vinegar together and pour over the 
vegetables boiling hot ; after it is cold mix oiu; pound 
of mustard in vinegar and add to the pickles. 

GREKN BEANS AND RADISH I'ODS. 

Take young French or "string" beans, and radisli 
pods just before they change colour ; green and pickle as 
you do cucumbers and gherkins. 



134 



THE HREADMAKEk's COOKING LESSONS. 



mA 



y'' 



PICALILLI. 

Take small cucumbers, button onions, small bunches 
of cauliflower, carrots, f<in^^er, grapes, strips of horse- 
radish, radislies, been pods, cayenne pods, four (luarts of 
white wine vinegar, four tablespoonfuls of salt, mustard 
and iiour, two tablespoonfuls of ground ginger, pepper, 
allspices and turmeric. The brine of this pickle is nnuU: 
by putting a pint of rock salt into a pail of boiling water. 
Put liie vegetables for pickling into the brine and cover 
tightly to prevent the steam escaping. Allow them to 
stand a night and a day. Change the brine a second 
tune and allow them to remain the same length of time. 
The second brine may be used a second time if skmi- 
medand scalded. Choose pickles from the brine of an 
equal size and of various colours. Great taste ma; be 
displayed in the arrangement of the pickles when put- 
ting them in bottles. To four quarts of white wine vine- 
gai'^add the spices. Simmer these together (the mus- 
tard and turmeric must be blended together with a little 
vinegar before they are added to the liquor) ; when the 
liquor is on the point of boiling, pour into a vessel ; 
cover tightly. When sufficiently cold pour into the 
bottles containing the pickle, and make air-tight. It 
will be reatly for use in live or six months. 



SWEET-PICKLED PEARS OR gUlNCF.S. 

To one pound of sugar take a quart of vinegar ; dis- 
solve the sugar, season with mace, cinnamon, and nut- 
meg. Peel and quarter two pounds of fruit, drop in 
the^'syrup, and boil five minutes. He-scald nine morn- 
ings. 

SWF.KT GRAl'l' PICKM'.S. 

Take six pounds of sugar, ten of grapes on the 
stem; boil a quart of vinegar, spice, and pour over 
boiling hot. 



PICKLES. 



135 



SWEET-PICKLED PEACHF.S. 

Make a syrup of one quart of vinen:ar and throe 
pounds of sugar ; peel the pcarhcs and put them in thr 
vinegar, let get hot, then take up until the vinegar boils, 
and pour over the peaches ; repeat every day for a 
week, or until the syrup is thin. The proportion of 
spices to a gallon of syrup is two tablespoonfuls of cloves 
and four of cinnamon. 

SWF.ET PICKLES. 

Sweet pickles are a nice relish with game or poultry, 
and are much more wholesome than ordinary pickles. 
They may be made of any fruit or vegetables that ran 
be preserved, including the rinds of melons. The pro- 
per proportion of sugar to vinegar for syrup is three 
pints to a quart. Sweet pickles are difficuU to keep 
unless made by experienced hands, and shoukl be fre- 
(piently examined and rescalded if any signs of ferment- 
ation are shown. She best spices for sweet pickles are 
cinnamon and cloves. 

SWEET WATERMELON-RIND PICKLES. 

1. Weigh twelve pounds of rind and put in a kettle, 
cover with salt water, let boil for a iialf-hour, drain and 
wash. Put one quart of strong vinegar and three 
pounds of brown sugar, with spices, in a kettle, let come 
to a boil, and drop m the rind ; boil half an hour take 
np and put in a stone jar. Add tsvo pounds of sugar to 
the syrup, with the juice and peel of two lemons. Boil 
thick and pour in the jar over the rind. This is one ol 
the most delicious of sweet pickles. 

2. Cut watermelon-rind into fancy shapes. Soak in 
salt water seven days. To eight pounds of rind put five 
of sugar. Make a syrup of the vinegar and sugar ; spice 
well." Take the rind from the brine, and boil in strong 
ginger tea ; drop in the syrup. Seal. 



136 



THE BREADMAKER's COOKING LESSONS. 




SWEET GREEN-TOMATO PICKLES. 

Take six pounds of ^reen tomatoes and slice. Boil 
a (inart of vinegar and three pounds of sugar, flavour 
with cinnamon, allspices, and mace. Put in the tomatoes 
and boil fifteen minutes. Put in stone jars. 

PICKLED CHERRIES. 

Five pounds of ebonies, stoned or not ; one quart of 
vinegar, two pounds of sugar, one-half ounce of cinna- 
mon, one-hnlf ounce of cloves, one-half ounce of mace ; 
boil the sugar and vin(>gar and spices together (grind 
the spices and tie them in a muslin bag), and pour hot 
o\<r the cherries. 

TICKLED PLUMS. 

To seven pounds ])lums, four pounds sugar, two 
ounces stick cinnamon, two ounces cloves, one quart 
vinegar, add a little mace ; put in the jar first a layer of 
plums, then a layer of spices alternately ; scald the 
vinegar and sugar together, pour it over the plums; 
repeat three times for plums (only once for cut apples 
and pears), the fourth time scald all together ; put them 
into glass jars and they are ready for use. 

PICKLED APPLES. 

For one peck of sweet apples take three pounds of 
su'nir, two cpiarts of vinegar, one-half ounce of cinna- 
mon, one-half ounce cloves ; pare the apples, leaving 
them whole ; boil them in part of the vinegar and sugar 
sprinkle with salt, and lay twenty-four hours; mash 
them up and run through a sieve so as to waste nothing 
but seed and skin, and season to taste with red pepper 
and cloves ; boil until it begins to settle at the bottom of 
the kettle, then add one quart of vinegar, then bottle 
and seal up tight. 



CATSUl'S. 



13: 



CATSUPS. 



TOMATO CATSUP. 

I. Take one peck of tomatoes allow one tablespoonful 
of salt, mace, black pepper, cloves powdered, and one of 
celery seed ; a teaspoonfnl of cayenne, half pound tin of 
mustard. Make a small incision in each tomato, put 
into an enamelled saucepan, and boil until perfectly 
soft, and the pulp dissolved ; work tluough a culkiulcr, 
then through a hair sieve. Place upon the stove adding 
the remaining ingredients (the celery seed must be con- 
fined in a muslin bag), and boil six hours. Stir orca- 
sionally for the first five hours and all the last hour. 
Pour into a stone jar ; allow to stand from twelve to 
fourteen liours in a cool place. When perfectly cool 
add a pint of strong vinegar. Remove the celery seed ; 
bottle, cork, and seal. ICxclude from the light. 

2. One peck ripe tomatoes, cut up, boil tender and 
sift through a wire sieve ; add one large tablespoonful 
ground cloves, one large tablespoonful allspices, one 
large tablespoonful cinnamon, one teaspoonfnl cayc nne 
pepper, one-quarter pound salt, one-quarter i)ound mus- 
tard, one pint vinegar. Boil gently three hours. Jio't- 
tlc and seal while warm. 

WALNUT CATSUP. 

Walnuts, salt, to every two quarts of walnut liquor 
allow one ounce each of allspices, ginger, black pt-pper, 
cloves, mace. Wash the shells of walnuts, bruise them 
slightly, put them with, salt in a stone jar for two or 
three weeks until they fernu-nt, then boil th(>m up, strain 
off the liquor, add to every two quarts one ounce each 



i k 



138 



THE HKKADMAKER's COOKING LESSONS. 



Of allspice, ginger, black pepper cloves, and mace 
boil the whole one hour ; let h cool, bottle it, and tie a 
bladder over the corks. Butternut makes equally good 
catsup. ^ ^x 

MUSTARD (to MAKE). 

Mix the best Durham flour of mustard by degrees with 
boiling water to a proper thickness, rubbing it perfectly 
smooth; add a little salt, and ke^ p it in a small jar 
closely covered, and put only as much into the glass as 
^villbeused soor, which should be wiped daily round 

' '"'Z^i^rwav, for immediate //i..-Mix the mustard with 
new milk b^ degrees, to be quite smooth, and add a 
little raw cream. It is much softer this way, is not 
bitter, and will keep well. 

HORSE-RADISH VINEGAR. 

Take three ounces of scraped horse-radish, one ounce 
of minced shallot, one drachm of cayenne, one (luart of 
vine<^ar. Pour the vinegar upon the above ingredients ; 
allow to stand ten days. This will be found exceedingly 
useful for cold joints, salads, &c., and a very economi- 
cal relish. 



EGGS. 

Orpheus, Pythagoras, and their sectators-good and 
humane people as ever lived-unceasingly recommended 
in their discourses to abstain from eggs, in order not to 
destroy a germ which nature had destined tor the pro- 
duction of chicken. Many allowed themselves to le 
persuaded, and would have believed it an unpardonable 



EGGS. 



139 



crime if thcv had eaten a liny o.u.l^lK; or bo.lo.l eg^s. 
M„„v of the most learn-d ph.losoplKrs lu-kl .RK's m a 
k„„l of respect approarhinK to venerat.on b.Ta..se 
:.w ,n them the cnble,,, of the worl.l anc the four 
, unts. The shell, they sa„l, represe.Ued the earth 
;,: wh.te, water ; the yolk, hre ; and a„ was fo.t.Kl 

""Thel'ar:'a"nat„ral foo.l, wholesome in every way, 
,M ept ™ .en hoUed too hard ; altho,.«h there are some 
stomaehs winch reject then,. They can be en.ployed .n 
r: el y d,sh with advantage, and one we,Kh,„, two 
conuins nearly the sa.ne an.oun. o nonr sh 
menl as an ounce of meat and an ounce of b.ea.l , there 
::;: when eggs, twelve cents a do.eu, are e.pnd to one 
pound two ounces, they are not a very <lear article 

of food. ,11. *i,g 

To iudge of the freshness of an egg, see mat tie 
Jl^are^harp and rough w,th a limy ee . or o 

rhi^ed'fr. t all Hght.lL.f cloudy and dar,< beware 
^^ Much need not be said as to cook.ng eggs •, they ,n y 
,;fri,.d boiled. scrand..le,l, poached and roasted, lu 
:;• •„ :. have yonr pan too ho., but c<,ok slowly and 
in ?u. tnelted fat or butler, basting the .op. In both 
Z ailo-v tluee tninutes ,n boiling water to medium s.e.i 
eggs, a.ul a trifle longer for large eggs. 

CL'STAUns. 

Custard pic, and the nudtUndc of dishes into which 
c^s enter as a part, are treated of elscwKre tn these 
pages. 



liO 



THE BRliAUMAKEK S COOKING LESSONS. 



DRINKS, 



mt 




As tli(- human lio.ly is lar,i;i-l\- made up of fluids, it 
follows that our drinks or In-vrra^fs arc an inijiortant 
part of i.ur daily wants. The body absorbs and retains 
a r<'rtaui amount (-"f \vei,i,dit of moisluri' from tlie air 
breathed, but th(> lar.i^er j>ortion is absorbed by the lin- 
ings of the stomaeli and bowels, from food and drink. 

These drinks should be pure and wholesome. A ilrink 
may seem unhaimful because no innnediatc elfects arc 
noticed, but in lime it ma\- undermine the health. The 
safest drinks are pure cold water and fiesh milk. Tea, 
coffee, vhocolate, hcew wines and liquors bciuf; more or 
less narcotic or stimulant, slu>uld be used with f;reat 
caution, and especially should not be served undiscrim- 
inately to children. Habits often ^aow rapidly, there- 
fore put off the commencement of them as long as 
possible. 

But to those who have formed these habits a few hints 
on the preparation of their favourite beverages will be 
necessary. 

THA AXn COFFEE POTS. 

As th(> ilavor and aroma of these drinks is their chief 
recommendation the greatest cleanliness must be prac- 
ticed in tlu> care of the pots in which they arc made. 
Once a day they sliould be boiled out, with a generous 
pinch of soda dashed in ; then wiped dry and aired. 

CO IF HE. 

Take half pint ground coffee, a quart of boiling 
water with half a teaspoonful of soda. Stir up the 
whites of two eggs with the coffee ; adding a little cold 



DRINKS. 



141 



water to form a pnstc. Mix this Kraduallv w.lh the 
bo.linK water, stirring' wH as it Im,i1s rapully for ton 
to fifteen minut.^s, keepui- well coverr.j. lake troni 
the fire and clash in a little eoKl wat.r ainl h t it settle 
{. minutes. Pour off carefully and serve v<'ry hot m 
a table coffee pot. In country places where nulk is 
plentiful wc recommend its use larj^'ely. 

ROASTING COFFKH. 

This process should be carehily watrluMl and supc-r- 
intended. When tlic berry crackles and b-Monus ensp 
it is sufficiently roasted. Once taken off the roaster it 
should be placed in several thick folds of llannel, to 
preserve the oil and aroma. When eool, place it m an 
air-tight canister. While on this subject, may I be allow- 
ed to state that, in my opinion, a good -•!> of ^:offee 
cannot be made without the introduction of a little chic- 
ory, though It should not be bought at coftce price. 

TEA. 

Pour into a tea-steeper just a very little boiling water, 
and then put in tea, allowing one teaspoonful of tea to 
each person. Pour over this boiling water until the 
steeper is little more than half full ; cover tightly and let it 
stand where it will keep hot, but not to boil. Let the tea 
infuse for ten or fifteen minutes, and then pour into the 
tea urn, adding more boiling water, in the proportion ol 
one cup of water for every teaspoonful of dry tea which 
has been infused. Have boiling wat.^r in a water 
not, and weaken each cup of tea as desired. Do not 
use water for tea that has boiled long. Spring water is 
best for tea, and filtered water next best. 

ICF.n Tl'.A. 

To each glass of tea add the juice of half a lemon, fill 
up the glass with pounded ice, and sweeten. 



142 



THE liKEADMAKER S COOKING LESSONS. 



jiVi 



ni-ACK CURRANT CORDIAL. 

To every four quarts of black currants, picked from 
the stems and lightly bruised, add one gallon of the best 
whiskey; let it remain four months, shaking the jar 
occasionally ; then drain ofT the lifiuor and strain ; add 
three pounds of loaf sugar and a quarter of a pound of 
best cloves, slightly bruised ; bottle well, and seal. 

GINGER COKDIAL. 

To one pound of picked currants, red or black, add 
one quart of wliiskey, one ounce of bruised f^'inger ; put 
in a stone jar and let it stand for twenty-four or thirty- 
six hours ; strain through a flannel bag, and add half a 
pound of sugar ; when it is all melted, bottle. 

CHERRY CORDIAL. 

To six pounds of cherries add three pounds of sugar 
and one gallon of whiskey. Shake the jar often for the 
first three weeks, then bottle. 

LEMON SYRUP. 

1. Pour six quarts of boiling water on five pounds ol 
white sugar, one and a half ounces of tartaric acid, and 
a little whole ginger ; let stand till cold ; then add one 
small bottle of essence of lemon. Strain and bottle. 

2. Pare off the 3^ellow rind of the lemon, slice the lemon 
and put a layer of lemon and a thick layer of sugar in 
a deep plate ; cover close with a saucer, and set in a 
warm place. 

CREAM NECTAR, 

Dissolve two pounds of crushed sugar in three quarts 
of water ; boil down to two quarts ; drop in the white 
of an egg while boiling ; then strain, and {)ut in the 
tartaric aciii ; when cold drop ui th(^ lemon to your 
taste ; then bottle and cork. Shake two or three times 
a day. 



DRINKS. 



143 



SPl.VNl'll^ GlNGl'K UF.ER. 

^r::nror;::^:;;:^e;.:on.J..o,.e ounce o< 

tartaric acicl, one qiuirt of ycist. 

HOF HKLK. 

o„e p.nt of ,.ola...s, a.ul -""f J, '^ ," "tue ot 

r,::; e'al^cllimy •, add one tablespoon.u. of .vn.tev.reen, 
and bottle for ase. 

GINGER WINE. 

,1 f vx .t.T one pound bruised gni- 

T Take ten i^allons ot watt-r, one iiui. c..vill.^ 

,.:;o!::l..wo;onnd..«sn...fenj.nonsu^^ 
:,rangcs, fonr pounds of ^f ";• J" ^^ ^' J ,. Bod the 

«'»- ^":\':ndt.rudfC^..o:;;on.iti.ouin« 

put >» a little yeast spread "PO"- '- ; ^^, ^^ ,„,„ , 
Three days, stirring ,t t-ce a day tlu , ^_^^^ ^_^^^ 
,,., «Hh tl- ra.n,s and u^Uss^^^^ ^^^ ^^^^_^_^^ .^^ _^ 

;::ra: rt"^:::: .. for us>. n. .... .out,.. 

lone.a,f pound of enn.r.n,.r..ur^ 

punento, '^^° °"""" ,,,^,,,, ^f a pound of gniger root, five 
o[caps.cun^tl.rc -n '-■^ and strain or filler, after 

^""°V% fiit.^ day Now n,.d<e syrup, thirty pounds 
standn-g hfieen '^' ,,,^j^„.,, „,ia, one and a 

ot wlute sugar , lull pom ^^^^_^^ ^^^^^^^^.^ 

half porurds o cream - ^J;,;^-^,^,, ^,j ,„a water to 

:::;;:^f::; t^:^- --'--- — " -'• " " 

stand six months b. lor. use. 



144 



THli URKADMAKliK S COOKING LKSSONS. 



CURRANT WINR. 

For every gallon of water take one ^'allon of currants 
off the stalks, bruise well and let them stand over night. 
Next morning mash them well with your hands and 
strain through a hair sieve. To every gallon of the 
liquor add four pounds of sugar. Rinse the cask well 
with brandy and strain the lit^uor again when putting 
in, by which you will see whether the sugar is dissolved. 
Lay the bung lightly on and stop it up in ten days. 

SUMMHR DRINK. 

Make a syrup of four pounds of white sugar with fou. 
quarts of water ; boil ; when cold add four ounces of 
tartaric acid, one and a half ounces of essence of lemon, 
and the whites of six eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; bottle. 
A wineglass of the crt am to a tumbler of water, with 
sufficient carbonate of soda to make it eflervesce. 



RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

To four quarts red raspberries, put enough vinegar to 
cover, and let them stand twenty-four hours ; scald and 
strain it; add a pound of sugar to one pint of juice; 
boil it twenty minutes, and bottle ; it is then reatly for 
use and will keep years. To one glass of water add a 
large spoonful. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Scrape baker's chocolate fine, mix with a little cold 
water and the yolks of eggs well beaten ; add this to 
equal parts of milk and water, and boil well, being 
c. reful that it does not burn. Sweeten to taste and 
serve hot. 

COFFEE. 

The following is a delicious dish either for summer 
breakfast or dessert : Make a strong infusion of mocha 
coffee ; put it in a porcelain bowl, sugar it properly and 



DRINKS. 



145 



a 1(1 to it an rquril portion of l>oil( .1 milk, or one tluia 
the quantity of rich cnain. Sniiouiul the bowl with 
pounded ice. 



A SERIES OF NEW AND ClllvXr DRINKS. 

Put a gallon of water on to boil, cnl iii> one pound of 
apples, each one into quarters, i)ut th. in in the water, 
and boil them until they can be pulpc d, pass the liipior 
through a cullender, boil it up again with half a pound 
of brown sugar, skim, and bottle for use, taking care 

not to cork the bottle, and keep it in a cool place : the 

apples may be eatet ' -h sugar. 
' Another wnv. • ake the apples first, then put them 

in a gallon pan, atld the sugar, and pour boiling water 

over, let it get cold, pass the liquor as above, and bottle. 

Al'l'LK TOAST AND \V.\T1-.R. 

A piece of bread, slowly toasted til! il gets quite black, 
and added to the above, makes a ver\ nice and relresh- 
ing drink for invalids. 

APPLE BAKLlvY WATF.R. 

A quarter of a pound of pearl barley instead of toast 
added to the above, and boil for one hour, is also a 
very nice drink. 

APPLE RICE WATER. 

Half a pound of rice, boiled in the above until in pulp, 
passed through a cullender, and drink when cold. 
All kinds of fruit may be done the sam(; way. 
Figs and French plums are excellent ; also raisins. 
A little ginger, if approved of, may be used. 

FOR SPUING DRINK. 

Rhubarb, in tlie same quantities, and done in the 
same way as apples, adding more sugar, is very cooling. 
Also green gooseberries. 



f. . 



146 



THE 13KEADMAKEK S COOKING LESSONS. 



LEMONADE. 

Cut in very thin slices three lemons, put them in a 
basin, add half a pound of sugar, either white or brown ; 
bruise altogether, add a gallon of water, and stir well. 
It is then ready. 

FOR SUMMER DRINK. 

One pound of red currants, bruised with some rasp- 
berries, half a pound of sugar added to a gallon of cold 
water, well stirred, allowed to settle, and bottled. 

MULBERRY. 

The same, adding a little lemon-peel. 
A little cream of tartar or citric acid addf^l to these 
r.-nders them more cooling in summer and spring. 



FRUIT. 



OBSERVATIONS. 

The most useful and delicious of all our foods is ripe 
fruit. They are more then food : they are tonics, blood- 
purificrs and laxatives, better than all the medicines 
that can be bought, if but judiciously used. 

As many of them can only be used in tlicir sea- 
son on account of their very perishable nature, a few 
remarks on their preservation will be m order. 

The delicious flavour of a strawberry, peach, or pear 
is all the more so if by art and care that flavour can be 
preserved, to refresh us long after its season is past. If 
in canning or preserving that identity is lost, the labour 
and material is also lost unless we arc satisfied with an 
empty name. 



FRUIT. 



147 



OBSERVATIONS ON CANNING. 

Fruit for preserving or canning must be gathered in 
dry weather, and should be caretully selcctc-d, discard- 
ing all bruised fruit, and purchasing only that of the 
largest and finest quality. 

Within a few years canned fruits have, in a great 
measure, superseded preserves. Tliey arc cheaper, 
more wholesome, but far more diflicult to pn:pare. 
Attention to a few general rules will iuMUe success, to 
every housekeeper who sensibly printers to put up her 
own season's supply of these to purchasing those for 
double the cost, which are not nearly so good. 

Examine cans or jars and elastics narrowly before 
vou begin operations. See that the screw is in order 
the can without crack or nick, the elastic iirm and 

closely fitting. 

Have the fruit boiling hot when sealed. Have upon 
the range or stove a pan in which each empty can is 
set to be filled after it is rolled in hot water. Lay 
elastic and top close to yo.:r hand, till the can to ov(;r- 
flowing, remembering that the fruit will shrink as it 
cools, and that a vacuum invites the air to enter ; clap 
on the top without the loss of a second, screw as tightly 
as N ou can, and as the contents and the can cool, screw 
a-ain and again to tit the contraction of metal and glass, 
'''if you use glass cans (they are cheapest m the end, 
for you can use them vear after year, getting new elastics 
when you need them) keep them in a cool, dark place, 
and dry as well as cool ; for the light will cause them to 
ferment, and also change the colour. Always use a 
porcelain kettle, as the acids of fruits acting on iron 

Bpoil the colour. • , . r .v 

In making .yrups, f\>r which neither the ^v..lgllt of the 
sugar nor the mode of dissolving it is specified, the fol- 



E 



i 





:;H| 





148 



THE BREADMAKER S COOKING LESSONS. 



iowinj; rule is to be observed : — Take of refined sugar, 
reduced to a fine powder, twenty-nine ounces ; the liquor 
prescribed one pint. Add the sugar by degrees, and 
digest with a moderate heat, in a close vessel, until it 
is dissolved, frequently stirring it ; set the solution aside 
for twenty-four hours, take off the scum, and pour off 
the syrup from the feces, if there be any. 

CANNED PEACHES. 

Peaches require one-quarter pound of sugar to each 
quart of fruit, which should be mixed in layers, and 
slowly brought to a boil ; let boil tiiree minutes. 

CANNED PEARS. 

Pears require one pint of water to each quarter pound 
of sugar to make a syrup, as they are not as juicy as 
some other fruits. Boil till tender in a small quantity 
of water, then add the syrups, and bring them to a boil 
and can. 

CANNED PLUMS. 

Plums require to be pricked with a needle, to prevent 
their bursting and breaking up. Dissolve a quarter of 
a pound of sugar to a gill of water, which makes a heavy 
syrup. This will be sufficient for each quart of all sweet 
plums. To those containing more acid, use increased 
quantities of sugar, to insure palatability. 

CANNED TOMATOES. 

Pour boiling water over the tomatoes to loosen the 
skins. Remove these; drain off all the juice that will 
come away without pressing hard; put them into a 
.votlle and heat slowly to a boil. Your tomatoes will 
look much nicer if you remove all the hard i)arts before 
putting tiicm on the fire, and i\\\) the pulp soft with 
your hands. r>oil ten minutes, dip out the surplus 
li(}uid, jiour the tomatoes, boiling hot, iii the cans, and 
seal. Keep in cool, dark place. 



nu'ir. 



119 



CAN'NI'.n AITI.F.S. 



This is the lon<;osl k(r|)tT of all the fruits. Tl is not so 
much of an object to can, but in places wlutt' tlicy 



arc 



scarce they may be canned the sanir as pears or peaches. 



PRKsi-.KVi'.n r,K!:i-.\ cokn. 
Boil on tiie cob until the milk ccasi^s to flow wIumi 
the grain is prickeiL Cut off tin- corn and pack in stoni' 
jars in Mie following order : — A layer of salt at tlit> bot- 
tr • i.alfan inch deep. Then one of corn two inches 
.'• - pth, another lialf-inch of salt, and soon until the 
jar is nearly filkHl. Let tlie topmost layer of salt be 
double the depth of the others, and pour over all melted 

not liot — lard. Press upcMi this, when nearly liard, 

thick white paper, cut to lit the moutii of the jar. Keep 
in a cool place. Soak over mglit before using it. 
Green corn is difficult to can, but / k)i(>n' it will keep 
well if put up in this way. And, strange to tell, be so 
fresh after the night's soaking as to re(]uire salt wl)(;n 
you boil it for the table. Should tlu^ top layer lu- musty, 
dip lower still, and you will probably be rewarded for 

the search. 

riN'i-APrr.F.s. 

Pare very carefully with a silver or plated knif(\ as 
steel injures all fruit. With the sharj) point of tlit- 
knife dig out as neatly and with as little waste as pos- 
sible, all the " eyc-s " and black specks, then rut out 
each of the sections in which the " ej'cs " were, in solid 
pieces clear down to the core. 15y doing this all the 
real fruit is saved, leaving the core a hard, round woody 
substance; but it contains considerable juici-. Take 
this core and wring it with th(> han<ls, as one wrings a 
cloth, till all the juice is extracted, then throw it away. 
Put the juu'c thus savid into the s\iu[i; ii i ii b-'il up- 
five minute-, skim till clear, then add ih.' fruit. Doil 




loO 



THE BKKaDMAKEK's COOKING LI-:SSONS. 



t' .4 

\4- 



as short a time as possible, and have the flesh tender. 
Th,' j^incapple loses flavour by over-cooking sooner 
than any other fruit. Fill into well-heated jars, add all 
tiie i^yrup the jar will hold ; cover and screw down as 
S()t)n as possible. 

STRAWBHRKIES. 

Put berries and sugar into a large flat dish and allow 
to stand about four hours, then draw off the juice and 
put nito preserving pan and allow to come to a boil, 
removing the scum as it rises ; then init in the berries, 
and let them come to a boil. Put into warm bottles 
and seal quickly. 

CHERRIES CANNED. 

Take to every one pound of fruit one-half pound of 
sugar, three gills of water. Put the sugar and water on 
the lire to heat, and as soon as it com.'s to a boil put m 
the cherries and only allow them to saild for quarter ol 
an hour ; put into bottles boiling hot and seal. A few 
of the kernels put in to scald with the fruit imparts a 
tine flavour. Be sure to skim well. 

GREEN GOOSEBERRIES. 

Top and tail the goostiberries, and then fdl wide- 
mouthed bottles, shaking them down till no more can 
be put in ; then tie down with damp (not wet) bladder, 
and place the bottles, surrounded bv hay, in a boiler of 
cold water, over a slow fire ; let them simmer till reduced 
about one-third, then take the boiljr off the lire, and let 
the botilesrenuiin in it till cpiite cold. 



onSF.KVATIONS ON PRESERVES. 

Like almost everything else in cookery, preserves are 
worse than nothing if not nice : Therefore great care 
should be taken in the selection of sugar, the prcpara- 



FRUIT. 



151 



c 



;„eserv. cauuo. be P'-''^'- ^ „„ount ot scu>u, 

common sugar IS »-''• ' ^^ ,^^.„°,(r, .-.nscqucnlly -va- 
,„a ot course th.s,m,sb An ^^ .naUu.g sy.ups .he 
poration reduces the q uanl y ^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^^ 

sugar must be pounded and l.s^ _ ^^ 

,,eLe ..tting on the hre ; - ;> "P- ^ A _ _^ ^,_^„,^ 
Uoiled too h,gh >•];"; -';^,,„::re I shced may be 

,yn.p at hrst. b > . ^ ;■;;;„,„,„ „f su,.u- to every one 
boiled ma syrup .uak,.oU op .^^ ^^,„„ 

pound of «uter, the qnan Ut> o J_^^ ^ ^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^ 

eases, but the «»;-; ^^'^J a the loUo.u.g very good •. 
stance of frmt. ^^'- '^^^ ^ i„to a preservmg 

To clarify s... pounds " ;;^^-\,. .„ia sp.u.g water ; in 
pan, an.l pour to U f ve P'"'^ ' , , „ .,„^ snrallegg, 
another puU beat lightly up h, . . ^^^ ^_^ ^^^^^^ 

but do not froth .t very n.ud M ^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^ 

,,ive it a stir to nuK > --' '^ ) ,. ,^ „,„iy a.ssolved. 
over a gentle hre when .^^l^J-"- ai.U.rbed ; when 

and let the scuu. ''se wuhout •• " . ,,^, fi,,, 

.besyrnphasbohedhvemnmtstA.^^;^^^^^.^^^ 
U,t it stand a couple of m u - ^^_^, ^^ ^^ ^^,,, 

*^" •• '■■: ■?: riln " t : c'rmder of th. som to the 
water, which vMl bin t ^^^^^^ ^^^_^,„ ,t 

rn^tth'm:.:^:naV:h\i.e really for use, or for 
throngn a tnm eu , 

further boiling- „.„acr«l quite tend.r by gentle 

AUunripelruamnstbe.endc c 1 ^ __^^ .^j^_,_^ 

scahhng before it .s put '""";,",;,„ ,,,.„ u is fust 
U,e sugar ; and the syrup ^^^^ f^^^„,„ 

::;::l:t:t:ltr=r;n^nep.nt of water w. 



152 



THE BKEADMAKER's COOKING LESSONS. 



t \ 



I 



make a very light syrup ; but it will gradually thicken 
11 rapidly boilid in an uncovered pan. Two pounds of 
sugar to the pint of water will become thick with a 
little more than half an hour's boiling, or with three or 
four separate boilings, of eight or ten minutes each ; if 
too much reduced it will candy instead of remaining 
liquid 

In making jams many cooks, after allowing the proper 
proportion of sugar to the fruit, put into the preserving 
pan without removing stones or skins until after boil- 
ing, as the flavour is thought to be finer by adopting this 
method. Glass bottles are preferable to any other, as 
they allow inspection to detect incipient fermentation, 
which may be stayed by re-boiling. Copper or brass pre- 
servmg pans are the best kind to use, but they require 
a great deal of care to keep clean ; the enamelled 
are very nice and easily kept in order. Jams sliould be 
kept in a dry, cool place, and if properly made will only 
require a small round of writing paper, oiled, and laid 
on to fit ; now tie down securely with a second paper 
brushed over with the white of egg to exclude the air. 
If you should have the least fear of the store closet 
being damp, it would be better for the first paper to be 
dipped in brandy. Inspect them every two or three 
months. 

GREEN GRAPE PRESERVES. 

To one pound of grapes allow three-quarters pound 
of sugar. Pick them carefully, and reject any that arc 
injured ; wash them. Put the grapes into a preserving 
pan, then a layer of sugar, then a layer of grapes. lioil 
on a moderate fire, stirring it all the time to prevent its 
burning:, and as the grape stones rise take them out 
with a spoon, so that by the time the fruit is sufficiently 

l-)oiled about one hour — the stones will all have been 

taken out. Put into jars and cover in the u;.ual way. 



I'Kl'lT. 



153 



RIIUHAKB JAM. 

To a pound of pulp allow one pound of su-ar one 
ounce of sweet almonds blanclud an<l rlu.pind. and halt 
a lemon cut into slices. Peel and cut np the rhubarb 
boiltill reduced to a pulp with a very htlle water, add 
the su-ar, almonds, and lemon ; be.l tor tlnv. .piarteis 
of an iiour, or an hour ; remove the lemon peel, and 
put it into pots. 

BI.ACKIU-RRV PRF.SRRVES. 

To every pound of picked fruit alloNV one pound ol 
loaf sugar, and one-quarter pound of appl- P-^^^ -- 
cored, and cut cpntesn.all. Bod the f-^'t ^^' ' 

minutes, add the sugar, boil, stir, and remove all scum , 
it will take from half to three-(iuartcrs ot an houi. 

APKICOT OR IM.UM I'KI-.r-I'-.KVK S. 

Take equal quantities of frmt and sugar. Pound the 
su^..r, pare and cut up wUh a sUver knife some ripe 
Ip^icitUr magnums, remove U>e stones, lay the ^m 

in a dish, strew over them half the sugar, and leave 
them till the following day; then bod and sknn ho 
remainder of the sugar, add the fruit, bod it up qu:.d<ly 
well skimmmg and stirring for twenty nn,mtes ; add 
the. blanched kernels halve<l, boil for ten minutes more, 
and the jam will be ready to pot. 

STRAWBERRY OR BARBERRY PRI.SERVES. 

Some ripe but not too ripe strawberries, to every 
pound of fruit allow one pound of white sugar and one- 
quarter pint of currant juice. Pick the fruit ; pour the 
currant ^uice on the sugar. V.oA the strawberries toi 
twe ty minutes, stirring well with a wooden spoon. 
Ad" tie sugar and currant juiee, and boil together on 
a trivet or hot plate lor half an hour, carefully removing 
ail the scum as it rises. 



^M 



154 IHE BREADMAKliR's COOKING LESSONS. 

CIir.RRY PRESERVES, 

To one pound of cherries allow one pound of sugar. 
For this use ripe fruit, but carefully reject any which 
is bruised or over ripe. The Kentish are the best for 
this purpose, havin- a pleasant acid taste ; other knids 
are too sweet for the quantity of sugar necessary ui 
preserving fruit. To the stoned fruit, add the sugnr ; 
it will require stirring occasionally from the first, and 
continuously after it once comes to the boil, alter which it 
must continue boiling for three-quarters of an hour ; 
then try a little on a cold plate to see if it sets or jellies ; 
if it does, pour it off into jars, and set m a cool dry place 
till the following day, when it should be covered down 
for keeping, if not, continue boiling until it will so se . 
It will not require skimming during the process of boil- 
mg, the scum will all boil away. The easiest way o 
stoning cherries is to tie a little loop of iron wire about 
the shape of a hairpin, on to a stick the length of a pencil ; 
bind the two ends firmly to the stick, leaving tAc loop 
standing up about an inch long, and slightly bent for- 
ward. With this the stones are easily extracted. 

PRESERVED MELONS. 

Melon, salt and water, best white ginger to taste. To 
make syrup, one quart of water to one pound of white 
sugar, the rind of three lemons, add another pound of 
sugar to each quart of syrup. Take away the rind and 
seeds, and cut the melon about the size of pieces of 
root ginger. Put them in strong salt and water, and 
let them remain for ten days, when it must be poured 
off, and fresh water put instead ; this must be changed 
twice daily for three or four days till all taste o sa t is 
Pone from the melon. Scrape the outside off the bes 
white ginger (the quantity according to taste), put it 
into a thin syrup made of the above proportions of water 



FRUIT. 



155 



and sugar, chain the huit, and pour the syrup andgm- 
.rer over it boihng hot. Repeat this for three days, then 
add another pound of sugar to eacli quart of syrup ; 
when boiled and skininied add the rind of three lemons 
cut lengthwise to each quart, put ni the melons, and 
simmer until clear. After the hrst day's sinunermg the 
ginger may be sliced to nnpart more tlavour.but it must 
not be allowed to boil. 

QUIN'CE rUKSl-.KVHS. 

To one pound of quinces allow three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar. Peel and quarter your qumces. leavmg 
the seeds in, as they readily impart their muclagv to 
water and thus thicken the syrup. Put the fruit and 
sugar mto a preserving pan, and half a teacuptul of 
water to moisten the bottom of the pan ; stir the fruit 
and sugar frequently, and when it boils keep it boiling 
rapidly until th<- fruit is soft, and a clear red colour, it 
will take about an hour, reckoning from the iirst boiling 
up. Put into jam pots, and cover when cold. 

QUINCL<S I'RKSKKVl'.D WIlOf.E. 

Some ripe quinces, to every pint of water allow three 
pounds of white sugar. Pare the quinces and put them 
into the preserving pan, three-parts covered with cold 
water (if they should float while the water is being 
poured on them, press them down with a plate until you 
have gauged the exact height of the water) ; take out 
the quinces, measure the water and add the sugar. Let 
this boil rapidly in the preserving-pan for hve minutes 
and then put m the quinces. The syrup should no 
cover them at first, but when they are half-cooked it 
will then amply cover the fruit. Boil the qumces 
rapidly, until soft enough for a knitting-needle to pierce 
them easily, which sliould be in an hour and a halt, 
reckoning from the hrst boiling up. Take the quinces 



•■ii-. i 



I - ( 



156 



THE BUKADMAKIiR'S COOKING LESSONO. 



y--' 



out carefully, so as not to break them, and lay them on 
dishes to cool. Run the syrup th.iough a jelly bag, or a 
piece of new flannel, put in a gravy strainer : this frees 
it of all odd little bits that may boil from the outside of 
the quinces, and makes it clearer. I'ut the syrup back 
in the preserving-pan, and boil it rapidly until it will 
jelly when dropped on a plate ; put the quinces into it. 

PRESERVED PUMTKIN'S. 

Equal proportions of sugar and pumpkin, one gill of 
lemon juice. Cut the pumpkin in two, peel and remove 
the seed, cut in pieces about the size of a fifty-cent 
piece, after weighing place in a deep vessel in layers, 
iirst sprinkle a layer of sugar then of pumpkin and so 
on, until it is finished ; now add the lemon juice and 
set aside for three days ; then for every three pounds of 
sugar add half a pint of water and boil until tender. 
Pour into a pan, setting aside for six days, pour off the 
syrup and boil until thick, skim and add the pumpkin 
while boiling ; bottle in the usual manner, 

GREEN FIG PRESERVE. 

To equal quantities of fruit and sugar, peel of one large 
lemon, a little ginger. Lay the figs in cold water for 
twenty-four hours, then simmer them till tender; put 
them again into cold water, and let them remain for two 
days, changing the water each day. If not quite soft 
simmer again, and replace in cold water until next day. 
Take their weight in loaf sugar, and with tv/o-thirds of 
it make a syrup, in which simmer the figs for ten minutes. 
In two days take the third of the sugar, pounded fine, 
and pour the syrup from the figs on it. Make a rich 
syrup with the peel of the lemon and a little raw ginger, 
and boil the figs in it, then mix altogether and put into 
large jam pots. The figs may be cut in half, if preferred, 
after they have simmered uniil soft. 



FOOD roR THE SlCK. 



15; 



TO I-KLSl-RVK CITRON. 

Citron, sugar, a,,,! water Purchase fi-^''--' 
pare aud slice one u>ch thick cut a.a.u ■" » ' P^; 
Remove the seeds, wei«ll, and allow onr pound of ^ sat 
,o one pound of fruit. Make u syrup, say hve p. n 
of sugar, half a pint of water; when ho.lu.K ad'l th 
fruit fnd boil three-quarters of an hour, .e.t , do e b> 
piercing with a broon, straw, and a few .nunU.s 1 . fore 
loving fron, the fire slice and seed a U-nu,,,, a,. ., 
one root of ginger put into preservu.g pan, pot and 
cover air tight. 

APPLE JAM. 

Allow to every one pound of pared and cored fruit 
three-quarters of a pound of white sugar, the rn,d of on. 
lemon; and juice of half a le.uon. Uavmg peeled and 
' o™ d he apples weigh them, and sUee them very thm. 
Place in a stone jar and surround with bo.hng water 
allow them to boil unt.l ten.ler ; when tend, r place u 
a preserving pan, add the sugar, grated lenron rn.d and 
tufce BoiFs owly half an hour fron, the tmre U begn.s 
lo simmer, remove the scu.n, put into jars and cover .n 
the usual manner. 



FOOD FOR THE SICK. 

Men worn out by disease and iui"0- >;"■-' I'^^J^ 
nuuit^us and concentrated food. The ordn.ary pre- 
rrat ens for the sick are, in gerreral, not only not 
ru "i^us, but instp,d and flatulent. A--- .^^^ 
are among the most eflicient supporters of he exhausted 
s teL, and every med.cal man should know how 
.Redirections for their preparation. 1 he ' ° - 
is his food. Solid articles are ol cour.e .vltah.lU 
acute diseases in their earlier stages. 



SSi 



158 



THE BREAUMAKKr's COOKING LKSSONS. 



I ii 



All animal soups should be made of lean meats ; and 
their nutritious properties, as well as their llavours, ma> 
be increased by the addition of some vegetable sub- 
stance, as rice or barley. If the stomach is very week, 
they may be diluted, or seasoned with pepper. 

MEAT PASTE. 

Take a piece of raw meat (perfectly free from fat) 
beef, mutton, or chicken, shred it as fine as possible, 
and rub it thrcnigh a sieve so as to form a smooth paste. 
Mix a piece the size of a pea up with a little cream and 
sugar. To be given frequently. In cases of extreme 
exhaustion from diarrliaia or other causes, it is very 
useful, especially for children. It may be given as a 
sandwich between thin pieces of breid, if preferred. 

I'()1;NI)ED MEAT. 

Take some chicken, partly but not thorou -[lily iioiUd, 
clear it perfectly from skin, shred it as fme as possible, 
beat it to a paste in a mortar, with a little of the liquor 
it was boiled in. Sinnner it gently for a few minutes 
with as much of the liquor as will bring it to the thick- 
ness of gruel. 

ESSENCE OF BEEF. 

Cut a pound of beef from the rump or sirloin, free 
from fat, into small pieces, put it into a stone jar with a 
cover, without any water. Fasten the cover down well 
with a double bladder. Stand the jar in a saucepan of 
hot water and simmer for four to six hours. When you 
take it out you will find about ateacupful of the strong- 
est beef-juice. Give at first ateaspoonfulat a time. It 
is palatable either hot or cold, and so light that it will 
remain on the stomach when even toast and water is 
rejected. If preferred as a jelly, a little isinglass may 
be put in the jar at first wilh the meat. Salt must be 
added afterwards. 



i"OOL> I'OK Tllli sr:K. 



ISD 



IIKEF TEA. 

The beef must bo very fresh. Take four r'^""''' °' 
the upi>cr side of the round, cut it into nmall l.i.ces. 
leave out every hit of fat, i-m H into a jav wal, . «.■ 
spoonful of salt and thr.o ,onts ol , old water. .. 
r osely down, place it a .i sa,.-epan of water an,f let It 
bo,l Kcnlly for five hov.. Th precaution of passing a 
oLeof stale bread ov . the surface, before servnig, . 
should he carefully observed, lest any fa, should reman,. 

Cut up into small pieces three pieces of lean veal, l-ul 
into at, enamelled saucepan, with three pmts of eo d 
"and one-half teaspoonful of salt. When „ bods, 
Tktvery carefully. Simn,er for three hours, .s.r un 
'Tbasin, and, when cold, rcnove .very part.cle ol fat^ 
When required, pour half a pmt, wiule bodn.g, on o a 
teaspoonhd of arrowroot which has been nnxed wUh a 
dessertspoonful of the cold veal-tea. 

CHICKKN BROTH. 

Cut up a fowl and break the leg bones. Put it into a 
stenvpan w.th a quart of cold watc r. a teaspoonful ol 
sal and the san,e quantity ol while su ;ar. Bo,l gently, 
sn mnTrtg constantly, for four hours. -Hjen strau, n.to 
a tosm. When cold, take off the fat. \N hen requned 
for use, warm a 6upful. 

MUTTON BROTH. 

Take one pound of scrag of mutton, pn, it into a 

cenan with two pints of cold water and a httle salt ; 

LTtrsinrmer gently for two hours; strain through a 

' and "hen cold, carefully remove every part.cle of 

fet It may be thickened with a little arrowroot or 

ground rice, as required. 



fl 



ih 



\0: 











IGO 



THE BRliADMAKERS COOKING LESSONS. 



liebig's broth. 
Chop half a pound of beef, mix it well with a tea- 
spoonful of table salt, four drops (to ten) of muriatic 
acid, and eighteen ounces of distilled water ; macerate 
for an hour, and strain through a fine hair-sieve. Dose, 
a teacupful. 

BREAD AND BUTTER BROTH. 

Spread a slice of well-baked bread with good fresh 
butter ; sprinkle it moderately with salt and black pep- 
per. Pour a pint of boiling water over it. 

FLOUR GRUEL. 

Tie up one pound of flour tightly in a cloth, place it 
in a saucepan of cold water, and boil it for four or five 
hours. When taken out, it will be a hard ball. Pare 
away the outer rind. When needed for use, scrape of! 
a sufficient quantity, and mix with boiling milk to the 
thickness of gruel. An excellent food in diarrhu3a. 

OATMEAL GKUEL. 

Boil a pint of water in asauc,(>pan ; when boiling, mix 
with it two tabU'spoonfuls of oatmeal, half a pint of 
milk, and a little salt. Let it then sinuner for half an 
hour; strain it through a hair-sieve, sweeten, and add 
a little nutmeg. A few raisnis may be added before 
boiling. 

TOAST WATER. 

Cut a slice of stnle bread half an inch thick, and toast 
it brow :, without scorching. Pour over it a pint of 
boiling water ; cover closely till it cools ; then pour off 
and strain it 

RICE WATER. 

• Take of rice two ounces ; water, two quarts. Boil it 
for an hour and a half, then add sugar and nutmeg to 
taste. Some prefc. salt. An excellent drink m diar- 
rhoea, dysentery, etc. 



FOOD FOR THE SICK. 



161 



LIEBIG's FOOD FOR INFANTS. 

Mix to-ether half an ounce of wheat flour, the same 
of malt flour, and seven and a quarter grants of Incpr- 
bonate of potash, and an ounce of water. Add five 
ounces of fresh milk, and put the whole tpon a gentle 
fire When it begins to thicken, take it from the t re 
stir it for five minutes, heat and stir again until it 
becomes quite fluid; finally boil it for a shor time 
Filter through a sieve to separate the bran it is then 
ready for use. It will keep for twenty-four hours. Its 
effect is slightly laxative. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Pnt two potatoes, one onion, and a piece of bread 
into a quart of water ; boil down to a pint Then throw 
in a little chopped celery or parsley and salt. Cover, 
remove from the fire, and allow to cool. 

ARROWROOT. 

Mix a tablcspoonful or a tablcspoonful and a half witl, 
a little coUl water, fU it makes a paste. Bo.l a p.n ol 
water, stir in the arrowroot, and ho,l .t a few ni.nutes. 
Sweeten with white sugar. Brandy or wn,e may be 
added if neeessary ; and half or all nulk n,ay be nsed 
instead of water. A little lemon or orange peel added 
before boiling will improve the flavour. 

TAPIOCA. 

Cover two tablespoonfuls of tapioca with a teacup- 
ful or more of cold water, and soak for two or three 
ho.>rs, or over night. Put it then into a pn.t of hodmg 
water and bo,l until it is clear and of the desired con_ 
sistenee. Sugar, nutmeg, or w,ne, etc., may be added 
as required. 

ISINGLASS. 

Isinglass may be added to the invalid's tea night ano 
morning. 



^ 




162 



THE BREADMAKKK'S COOKING LESSONS. 




SAGO JELLY. 

Mix well together four tablespoonfnls of sago, the 
juice' and rind of one lemon, and a quart of water 
Sweeten to taste, let it stand half an hour, and boil it, 
stirring constantly, until clear. Then add a wmeglass- 
ful of wine ; currant wine will do. 

WINE WHEY. 

Boil half a pint of milk, and, while boiling, add a 
wineglassful of Madeira or sherry wine. Separate the 
curd bystraiviing through muslin or asieve. Sweeten the 
whey to taste, and grate upon it a little nutmeg. 

MILK PUNCH. 

Into a tumblerful oi milk put one or two tablespoon- 
fuls of brandy, whiskey, or Jamaica rum. Sweeten, and 
grate nutmeg on top. 

FERRUGINOUS CHOCOLATE. 

Mix sixteen ounces of chocolate with half an ounce 
of carbonate of iron. Divide the mass into cakes of one 
ounce eacv One may be dissolved in half a pint oi 
hot milk, to be taken night and morning. 

CAUDLE. 

Beat up a raw egg with a wineglassful of sherry, and 
add to it half a pint of hot gruel. Flavour with lemon- 
peel, nutmeg, or sugar. 

calves' FEET. 

Take two calves' feet, two pints of water, one pint of 
new milk and a little lemon-peel or mace. Put the 
ingredients into a jar, cover it down, and keep it in the 
oven for four hours. When cold, remove the fat. Good 
the first thing in the morning, or at mght. 



FOOD FOR THE SICK. 



163 



SAVORY CUSTARD. 

A savory custard, much relished by sick people, is 
made in the foUowing manner : Take the y: :lks of two 
eggs and the white of one, and put in a small basm ; 
add one gill of beef-tea, and a quarter of a saltspoonful 
of salt ; whip up the eggs and the beef-tea ; take a small 
cup which will hold the mixture, and butter it ; take a 
niece of white letter-paper, and butter that, and tie it 
on the cup ; have a saucepan with hot water, and put 
it on the fire to boil ; when the water is boiling, put m 
the cup so that the water stands below the top of the 
cup ; let it simmer for a quarter of an hour ; serve hot. 

EGG AND V/.NE, OR BRANDY. 

Beat up a raw fresh egg, and stir with it two table- 
spoonfuls of wine, or one of brandy. Sweeten or not. 
according to taste. 

COOLING DRINKS. 

Take sugar, two or three lumps ; lemon, one. Rub 
well the sugar on the rind of the lemon, sc^ueeze out the 
juice, and add to it half a pint oi a pint ot cold or tad 
water, or, better still, one or two bottles of soda-wuter. 

IMPERIAL DRINK. 

Put half an ounce of cream of tartar, the juice of one 
lemon, and two tablespoonfuls of silted sugar into a jug, 
and pour over them one quart of boiling water. Cover 
till cold Excellent in cases of dropsy. 

For further information as regards the preparation 
of food, see articles on " Household." 



-wS 



164 



THE BREADMAKEK'S COOKING LESSONS. 



FAMILY PRESCRIPTIONS, ETC. 



\m- 



CATHARTICS OR PURGATIVES. 

Cathartics or Purgatives are medicines which loosen 
the bowels. The constant use of purgatives is injurious, 
and the purgative action is followed by a greater or less 
amount of costiveness. 

A Saline Purgative good in Acute Constipation, or in the 
Onset of Fneumonia, Pleurisy, etc. :— 

Be Epsom salts, three drachms ; fluid extract or senna, 
one fluid drachm ; syrup of ginger, half a fluid ounce, 
water enough to make two fluid ounces. Mix, and 
take the whole in the evening. 

Be Powdered rhubarb root, twenty-four grains ; aloes, 
ten grains; myrrh, twelve grains; oil of pepperment, 
two drops. Mix and divide into pills (No. 12). Dose : 
One as required. 

Habitual Constipation :— 

B: Resin of podophyllum, two grains; alcohol, one 
ounce. Dose: Teaspoonful in a glass of water at 
bedtime. 

Be Castor oil, half an ounce ; milk, half a cupful. 
Mix well together. The milk removes the unpleasant 
taste of the oil. 

Be A bottle of the citrate of magnesia. Dose: 
Half at night and the remainder in the morning, if the 
bowels have not acted. 



FAMILY PRESCRIPTIONS, ETC. 



165 



INJECTIONS OR ENEMAS. 

These arc liquid substances thrown into the lower 
bowel, and may be used ni place of purgatives by the 
mouth, or as astringents to check diarrlia.a, or to stop 
bleeding from the bowels. Nutrient injections are also 
given to nourish the patienl in exhausted conditions 
where food cannot be given by the mouth. 

R Castor oil, half an ounce ; molasses, half an 
ounce ; soapsuds, one pint. Mix well and inject. 

To check Purging of Consumptives, or Dysentery .— 

n Bismuth, subnitratc, twenty-four grains; laud- 
anmri, twenty drops ; mucilage of starch, one ounce. 
Mix and inject. 
To check Bleeding from the Dowels :— 

R Spirits of turpentine, thirty drops ; mucilage of 
starch, one ounce. Mix and inject. 

R Cold iced water injected also prevents bleeding, 
especially from piles. 

Cooling Mons. used to subdue [,^am,::.tion and 

relieve pain : — 

U Nitre, half an ounce; sal ammoniac, two dracams; 

vinegar three tablespoo.tuls ; camphor-water, one pint. 

™ This solution is apphed by mu.s of sponges or 

cloths to the head and elsewhere. 

R Laudanum, one drachm; sp-ts of rosemary, one 
dr^hm- diluted lead-water, one ounce. Mix Apply 
by mel;s of cloths soaked in the solution. Good m 
irritable ulcers, chilblains, etc. 

COUNTER-IKRITANTS. 

Counter-irritants are applications to irritat-. one part 
of tl>e body to relieve disease in another. 



166 



THE BREADMAKER's COOKING LES :.aNS. 



I'.f 

W 



'Hi 






li Croton oil, thirty drops ; olive oil, two table:>poon^ 
fMlc. Mix. When rubbed on, produces redness and 
eruption of the skin. A useful application to the chest 
in I he beginning of consumption. 

B; Tinrturc of iodine, alcohol, equal parts. To be 
appUed mh a ..mel's-hair brush, ui cases of per.is- 
tent pains in the ,c:nts and limbs. Blisters and cups 
have Ibe same /;Mect. 

Cupoiug IS performed as follows :-Take a tumbler 
or wineglass and a little piece of cotton or pa),>er, which 
is to be wet with the spirits of wine, set on fire, and 
thrown into the glass ; the rim of the glass should be 
then at once firmly pressed down over the sk:.:>., when 
the fire will be quickly extinguished, and the skin drawn 
up forcibly into the glass. By making small incisions 
before applying the glass, blood is drawn. Cups are 
useful in case of pneumonia and congestion of tlie 
brain. In the latter case, the back of the neck should 
be cupped ; and, in congestion of the kidneys, over the 
lower part of the back. Leeching, being somewhat less 
violent, is more applicable than cupping to parts which 
are very tender, as the side in acute pleurisy, the abdo- 
men in peritonitis, a much inflamed joint, etc. 

JIow to get Leeches to fix : — 

Clear the skin carefully of all perspirai and, il 

they do not re.-'ly take hold, moistr^" it th a little 
sweetened watc ar milk. After thr .xL-ication of 
leeches, they should be left alone untx Hey drop oil. 
Thr. part should be then dusted over with u <ittle flour. 
If it bleeds freely it may be stopped by pre < ..e, or ice 
applied. If this fails, vinegar and alum - • be used. 
Leeches should not be applied to the eyelids or face, as 
they leave scars. In children, great caution is required 
in their use. 



FAMILY I'RESCRll'TlONS, ETC. 



1G7 



Emetics are medicines used to produce vomiting. 
Tlferlc^on IS promoted by drmk,ng freely of warm 
water. 

R Teaspoonful of nmstard Hour .n a teacupful o 
.at water. To be taken every ten mnn..es un.,1 

vomiting is produced. 

"'Two"'tfsp;onfnls of c.on,n.on .alt in a teacupfnl of 
waTmwater' To be taken every ten or fifteen mmutes 
until vomiting is produced. 

Fwetic of Alum and Ipecac:— 

Po vder of ipecacuanha and powder of alum, each 
haff a teasnoonful. Mix with water. Repeat .n ten 
Minutes K /does not vomit. Good .nthreaten.ng croup. 

EYE-WASHES. 

"'r C— sTlt. one drachm ; warm water, one pint. 
Mix and wash the eye well. Or,— 

R Sulphate Of Zinc, two gra.ns ; "'-'-/"cld 

p„„. water, one ounce. Mix. A few drops to be placed 

under the eyelids twice a day. 

For Ii'fiammathn of the Bye :— 

R Borax, one teaspoonful ; water, one pmt. M.x. 
Wash the eyes well three or four times a day. 

R Tincture of arnica, five drops; pure water, one 
ouL M.x. Often of benefit in weak and sore eyes. 

FOMENTATIONS, OR STUPES. 

rorr^entation, or stupes, are used to relieve pam. 
cspeciaU;, of the bowels. 



I;: 






168 



THE BREADMAKER S COOKING LESSONS. 



I5i. 



m 



T)(rpentine Fomentation : — 

Steep a piece of linen in oil of turpentine, and plact, 
it over the part ; hot flannels should be placed over it, 
and changed constantly. Or, — 

Sprinkle a flannel, wrung out of hot water, with a 
tablespoonful of turpentine. Laudanum may be used 
in place of turpentine, or they may be mixed. 

Mustard Fomentation : — 

Add a quarter of a pound of mustard to a pint of boil- 
ing water. Wring the flannel out in this solution. 



GARGLES. 

Be Chlorate of potash, one teaspoonful ; glycerine, 
two tablespoonfuls ; water, a tumblerful. Mix. For 
ordinary sore throat. 

Be Sage, two ounces; linseed, one ounce- boiling 
water, one pint. Mix. To be used when cold. 

R Alum, two teaspoonfuls ; water, tumblerful. Mix. 
Used to remove offensive breath. 

^ Tincture of guaiacum, two ounces ; chlorate of 
potash, two drachms ; glycerine, two ounces ; water, 
one pint. Mix. An excellent gargle in enlarged ton- 
sils, etc. 

MEDICAL TEAS, ETC. 

To act on the Skin : — 

g: Pipsissewa, bruised, one ounce ; water, one pint. 
Boil for fifteen minutes, strain, and add sufficient water 
through the strainer to make the tea measure a pint. 
Dose : Wineglassful every two or three hours. 

In Skin Diseases and Gravel : — 

J^ Goose-grass, a handful ; water one quart. Boil 
for twenty minutes. Dose : A tumblerful three times 
a day. 



FAMILY I'KESCRIPTIONS, ETC. 



169 



To act as a Tonic: — 

R Red or yellow cinchona-bark, one ounce ; water, 
one pint. Boil for tiftecn minutes, strain and atld sufli- 
cient water through the strainer to make the tea measure 
one pint. Dose : Wineglassful three times a day before 
meals. 

To improve the Appetite : — 

1^ Dogwood, bruised, one ounce; water, one pnU. 
Boil for fifteen minutes, strain, and add sufficient water 
through the strainer to make the tea measure a pmt. 
Dose : Wineglassful three times a day before meals. 

For Diarrhoea : — 

R White-oak bark, bruised, one ounce ; water, one 
pint Boil for half an hour, strain, and add sufficient 
water through the strainer to make the tea measure a 
pint. Dose : Wineglassful every three or four hours. 

For CougJis and Colds : — 

R Iceland moss, half an ounce ; water, one pint. 
Boil for fifteen minutes, strain with squeezing, and add 
sufficient water through the strainer to make the l.u 
measure a pint. Dose : Wineglassful every three or 
four hours. 

To act on the Liver in Biliousness:— 

R Dfn.i.elion root, sliced and bruised, one ounce; 
water - pint. Boil for ten minutes in a covered 
vessel', strain as above, and add sufficient water to make 
a pint. Dose : A wineglassful three or four times a day. 

For D. psies :— . r r . 

K B.aised juniper berries, one ounce ; nfusc for two 
l^our'^ in a pint of hot water ; p .r off, and ad.l a table- 
spoonful or two of cream of tartar ; s'ir, and drink in 
portions through the day. 



1 !!J 



i ^ 



170 



THE bKIiADMAKEK b COOKING LESSONS. 



V&M 



For W'niis :— _ , t u 

R Leaves of senna and root of spigelia, each ha t an 
ounce : boiling water, a pint and a quarter ; n.fuse, 
covered, for two hours. Dose : A wineglasstul mornxng 
and night. 
Liniments, used to removs Pain and swelling :- 

R Camplior, one ounce ; olive oil. four ounces. Rul 
up the camphor in the oil. 

R Camphor and chloral hydrate, equal parts, ^lub 
well togetlu'r. Useful in neuralgia, etc. 

R Pure chloroform, three ounces ; olive oil, foui 
ounces. Mix well. Useful in neuralgia and rheu- 
niatism. 

R Oil of mustard, one dra. hm ; extract belladonna, 
one drachm; . ir.pho.. two lachms ; castor oil five 
drachms ; alcohol, four ounces. Mix. In pams of the 
joints, etc. 

LOTIONS. OR W'^~HES. 

Lotions, or washes ar employed either for sooth- 
ing or cooling inflamed ^ ts. 'or stimulating chronic 
sor(;s, etc. 

Fur Sprains and Bruises :— 

13, Tincture of arnica, half an ounce ; water, a tumb- 
lerful. Mix. 

For Sluggish Sores .•— 

R Sal ammoniac, one drachm ; laudanum, one table- 
spoonful : water, a tumblerful. Wash three oi four 
times a day. 

R Vinegar and water, equal parts. Given in old 
sores, to wash, constantly. 



m: 



FAMILY rKKSCKiniONS, bFC. 
OINTMENTS AND SALVES. 

a,„^H "■""'^ 2i 'jlvce^-. each, half an ounce ; 

R Bay-nini and giycenni, 
<l,uuce-jiuce jelly, one ounce. M.x. 

..Lrrite^-.-'--"--^"^^"""'^'" 

make one ounce. Mlv. 

'•"';tV;;;acid,one..ach,n,po.^-lopuu„.one 
drfchm ; lard, fresh, one ounce. M>x. 

POUI.TICKS. 

Bund Poultice .— „„m,.,liatelv put •" *"'"'' ''"''' 

c ,d out a basm, 'h«" '"""^^^.tf/eruu.bcd bread. 

i„g water, and throw n,tocoar-y_^ ^^^^ ^^^^^^ ,^^^ 

Cover the basm w h a at ^^ ^^^^^ ^__^^^^^^^ ^^^^^„ 

soaUed up as -"-'; J^e' «ill be left a hfiht pulp^ 
off the remauider, ancl t ^^^^^j j._^^„_ ^„,l 

2;SUr^ rtJ^Llture of a ..,. bath.- 

linseed-Meal Poultice .— ^_^_^^^„ .(uff tuU 

Get some linseed P°;;^-;/:' U^, Pour m some 

of grit and sand. Sc^ld o ^^^^^^ . ^„^ ^ 

perfectly '-"'"^ t'^ 'J^" ,,„porated; add a UUle 
,ound «..h a »";\ ^J "^o.e meal; st.r again, and, 
,„„re water, ar^a ■;'"%„„,,„ency you wish .t to be. 
v.hen it is two-th.rd the cons ^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^^^^^ ^ 

beat ,t np wth the j'^d- ^ ^ ^^"^ j, on a piece of soft 
removed. Then take .touynd a ^^__^^^ ^^^ ^^ ^^.^^ 

riU^^rr'lHrirm— part. Pntap,eceot 



I I 



172 



THE BREADMAKIiR's COOKING LLISSONS. 



hog's lard in the centre of it, and, when it begins to meU, 
draw the edj^e of a knife lightly over, and grease the 
surface of the poultice.— AbernetJiy. 

Mustard Poultice : — 

Mix the mustard with cold water, and knead it to the 
consistence of putty. Spread it the eighth of an inch 
thick upon brown paper or linen, warm it before the 
fire, and apply it to the part affected, putting a thin 
piece of muslin between it and the skin. 

Dnm or Hop Poultice : — 

Fill a bag one-third full with bran, or hop flowers, 
moistened but not thoroughly wetted with boiling water. 
Shake the bag and hold it before the fire till it is thor- 
oughly hot, and then apply it to the aftected part. 

Bryony Poultice for Bruises, such as a Black Eye : — 

A poultice, made of black bryony-root (deprived of 
its bark, and finely scraped) and bread-crumbs or flour, 
should be enclosed in a mu,4in bag, and applied over 
the injured part. It will cause the ecchymosisor black- 
ness to disappear within twenty-four hours,— jTvTm/. 

TONICS. 

To improve the Digestion and give tone to the System : — 
gc Tincture of iron, five and a half drachms ; quinine 

sulphate, one drachm ; glycerine, one ounce ; water, 

enough to make four ounces. Mix. Dose : Teaspoon- 

ful in water three tmies a day. 

5c Quinine sulphate, twelve grains ; reduced iron, 

one drachm ; extract of nux-vomica, three grains. Mix, 

and divide into twelve pills. Dose : One, three times a 

day. 

R Sulphate of iron, one drachm ; Epsom alts, eleven 

drachms ; dilute of sulphuric acid, five dracnms ; pep- 



FAMILY FRliSCRlPTlONS, ETC. 



173 



permint.water, enough to make four ounces. Dose : 
Teaspoonful, three times a day. 

^tuir;'';:'//;'!:;:; of ...... a„. cou.™v,o 

Dos! De'ssertspoonful. three tunes a -lay belove .ncals. 
mSeestion or W.ak Sto.naC.-Mso .n cLronic conges- 
tion of the Uver. . . 

jy Peosin two drachms ; dilute nitro-munatic acid 
R Pepsm, nux-vomica, half an ounce; 

half an ounce ; tmcture oi enoudi to 

r ^..ot-irrn ncel two ouncus water, cudu^i 
syrup of ^'^^"^^^■P"^ ' . Teaspoonful three tm.es 

make six ounces. Mix. L>osl . i 

a day, after meals. 

"tc£^^^^~ twenty grains; tinctnre dig.aUs 
» <-ro^"" or'in<a-peel, one ounce ; water, 

forty drops; ^V" ; "^ ^^t' f ^ „; onnce every three 
three ounces. Mix- i^^obc . vy 

honrs unttl relieved O;- ^^,^„., fo,„. „„nces. 

u <^'il ammonuc, ion> grciui^>, 
m!^. Onrounee every honr h> water nn„l reheved. 

'"'k^'soiecTsyrnp of rhnbarb; tine.nre of cardamom ; 
^^ rind cmnan.on-watet, each a llu.d ounce. 
'm^' Dose • Vahlespooufui. May be repeated m an 
hour if not relieved. 

drachms; wme of <="'='""•"• j^ . peaspoon- 

enoufen to mal<e three ounces. M.x. 

ful three times a day. 

't;:Seret::ic:'^a lemon in a small cup of strong 

black coffee. 



i 

4 



174 



THE BREADMAKER's COOKING LESSONS. 



■ 4 -41 



To Produce Sleep : — 

Chloral hydrate, fifteen grains ; syrup of orange-peel, 
half-ounce. Mix. Take at bedtime. 

To quiet the Nerves after Drinking .- — 

Bromide of potash, thirty grains ; aromatic spirits of 
ammonia, thirty drops ; syrup of orange-peel, half an 
ounce. Mix, and take with plenty of water. 

WASHES. 

Stimulating Hair-wash :— 

Be Aromatic spirits of ammonia, one ounce ; spirits 
of rosemary, one ounce ; tincture of cantharides, three 
drachms; glycerine, half ;in ounce ; rose-water enough 
to make eight ounces. Mix. To be rubbed on well 
twice a day. 

Wash for the Mouth : — 

R Chlorate of potash, one drachm ; tincture of 
myrrh, one ounce ; rose-water, six ounces. Mix. 

Removal if Dandruff from the Hair :-- 

Carbonate of potash, half an ounce ; alcohol, one 
ounce; water enough to make eight ounces. Mix. Use 
little at a time: rub well into scalp until it forms a 
lather. 



DISINFECTANTS, 



m 



FRESH AIR AND SUNLIGHT. 

Disinfectants are substances possessing the power 
of destroying gerins of diseases, and wiich also, by 
absorbing or decomposing impure; gases, puiify the 
atmosphere. 



DISINFECTANTS. 



175 



WATER. , . 

. t.r nlaced in a room will absorb impure 

room will remove the disa^rc 

. . oal U r/cffu-acious in absorbing 

FRl-bli EAUTIl. 

„M,.,1 over offensive matters, or 
Fine dry earth ^l'""'^ ^^ °;" j, .^ efficacious in 
l,laced in boxes about a room, 

absorl)i"K fo"' °'^°'^''- „,„,etas in powder alone or 

Sulphate of ,ron. « ^';X"disintec.ant for privy- 
mixed with Ume, IS an cxccUe ^,,,^,^0^1, two 
^ells, slaushter-house, 'W-'> ; f^ fo,,y ounces ; sul- 

and scatter dry, or m.xw.thvvater. 

e„,,or<n>E o. t.E-. .^^ ^ ^, 

Dissolve '-If %'^^^='';" 1, Xontmon .alt in a pa,l 
boiling water, and two ^l-^-'^ "^ ^ ^^„„,, a,c sedunent 
of water. Mix the two soluUons n ^^^ ^^^^^ ^_^_^^ ^^^ .„ 
,0 settle. A cloth d,pP -1 " th^^^^. ^^ ^^ ^^___.,^ ,„, „ , 
an apartn^ent is ^^'^ '"' '%„\e thrown down s.nks. 
fetid atmosphere- It^^.^-^ ^^^^^_ _,^^^^^^, ,,„a>es in. 
drains, etc. , sr,"^ 

"r'°"! otTe ■ water, one gallon. 
Impure carbolic ac.d, °";XHvies,aboutsinks,etc. 
MixandsprinUleover hefloor ofp ^^^^ ^^^^,^^^ ^^ 

disinfectant. 



•I 



176 



THE IJREADMAKER's COOKING LESSONS. 



■j; 



a- ^ 
ft ■» 



I 



Chloride of lime is often deleterious, in close dwell- 
ings, from the amount of chlorine gas evolved ; but it is 
excellent for drains, ditches, etc. By adding vinegar 
or diluted sulphuric acid with it, the amount of chlorine 
gas is increased. 

Common salt, three ounces ; black oxide of manga- 
nese and oil of vitriol, each one ounce ; water two ounces. 
Mix in a cup, and carry it through the apartments of 
(he sick ; but it should not be left in the room. 



HOW TO FUMIGATE ROOMS. 
Heat a common iron sliovel quite hot, and pour vine- 
gar slowly upon it. The windows and doors should be 
open at the time, as the fumes of vinegar are very irri- 
tating. 

SULPHUROUS ACID GAS. 

Another way to fumigate rooms is with sulphur fumes. 
Take two ounces of sulphur and place it in a kettle, 
close every window, kindle the sulphur, and imtnediately 
leave the room ; the door should be locked and no one 
allowed to enter it for eight hours, after which time the 
doors and windows may be thrown open. 

Chlorine gas, bromine, or nitrous-acid fumigation 
should only be used by persons acquainted with such 
gases, as they are very poisonous. 

Another very efficacious disinfectant (in washing furni- 
ture, books, clothing, etc., which have remained in the 
room of a person sufTering from infectious diseases) is 
made by mixing one part of rectified oil of turpentine, 
seven parts of benzine, with the addition of five drops 
of the oil of verbena to each ounce. This forms the 
peroxide of hydrogen, a powerful oxidizing agent, 
similar to ozone. 

Clothing may be disinfected by placing in a hot oven, 
or boiling it. 



DISINFF.CTASTS. 



IT 



To remove Ih. unpleasant odor fron, a room qu.ck , 
burn in U dried lavender or casoar, la ^a.K. 
window should be opened when a i. done. KoasUn„ 
coffee has the same effect. 

PRECAUTIONS IN V.SITING .Nl-KCTED ROOMS. 

Never enter an infected roon, on an '-l-'y ^^"'.^tb 
and rub the skin well when drymg. 



MATERIA MEDICA, 



Materia Medica is that departn.ent of n,c.lical science 
.J'-i:: ::ar:r^ced in a tabulated for,n 

°r r;:::rr:=:r tote their actton 

is as follows : . r-nisin"' its 

I. ^y^ fVir. 1-nimcuiar ti^siic, caubiUrt 

""l^^^e. change U.c .norbid o. unhealthy actions 
or states of the systc.vu ^^^^^ ^^j^^^, 

Antispasmodics give rciiei lu i 
nervous irritation. ^^^^ ^^ ,^ 

Antinlikvast cs counteract, m uk uiu^i .; 

AntipniOt,i^ii^ . ^1 ^ reason us. -l 

all inflamuuitory processes, and arc lor ina 

wl!l^ l.ave a period, tendeuey, as n.danal fevers, .U . 



178 



THE BKIiADMAKER S COOKING LESSONS. 



Antiacids neutralize acids, whether in the stomach, 
intestines, or circulating in the blood, as occurs in rheu- 
matism, gout, etc. 

Antirheumatics have an influence over rheumatic 
troubles. 

Antiscorbutics are medicines which counteract blood 
deteriorations, caused by scurvy, etc. 

Antiscroiulitics are used in scrofulous diseases. 

Antidyspeptics improve the condition of the digestive 
organs, and relieve dyspepsia. 

Antiemetics prevent vomiting. 

Antiarthritics are medicines which subdue an influence 
in the blood which gives rise to diabetes, gravel, or 
diseases of the joints. 

Anticonvulsives correct certain convulsive disorders, 
dependent upon biood deterioration. 

Antipyretics atr^ medicines which reduce the temper- 
ature of the body daring fevers. 

Absorbents ab;s«y>rb poisonous or irritant substances. 
ibre used in diaf^iuf a, vomiting, etc. 

Antiseptics -ur-* substances which prevent putrefaction. 

Aroniaucs ar*-; medicines having a spicy smell, and 
are used for thttw pleasant odor ; also in conjunction 
with purgatives to prevent griping. 

Anodynes are medicines used for the relief of pain. 

Cathartics act on the bowels, producing a purgative 
effect. Drastic cathartics act rapidly and violently on 
the bowels, and occasion considerable pain. Hydrago- 
gue cathartics produce a watery discharge from the 
bowels. 

Canninatis <:h cause expulsion of wind or flatus from 
the stomacli or intestines. 

Caustics are Ubcd externally to remove abnormal 
growth.s. :uid have the power of burning or destroying 
animal tis^iio. 



MATERIA MEDICA. 



179 



Cholagcues stunuU.e .he acUon of the U.e. and 
increase the flow of bile. ^^ 

Demulcents soften or soo he - •'^'^^ ^.rspiration. 

°'^^''°'"'n::\retM„:;r cSanuLeased 
Diuretics act on the Kiunc)». i 

""SelLlamr-are substances having a sedative action 

Seirnt;:riir::;«:wtd^iect^ 

f^"" "" !:"£ when taken internally, contract the 
„o"!r:;^"->ci;ecl<henrorrha,e or bleeding. 

^^LC^art:::.:' to cathartics, but their action 

'^s:t:::s::er-on.,s.h..;K.ac^«^ 

-S:d"«eirt::e::t, ■;. ^duce a nro.st con- 
'''Sotif!';: Ire medicines of a n.,ld nature for .nduc,ns 

"'"''P' • modirines which have a sedative or 

Sedatives are medicines 

"'sTrdlS atr:rr t:^::n;e medicines which 
i.rove.'.etoneofthe.ornachana^^^^^^^^^^^ 

,„ general, ''r^^^:^ ^^^tately and perman- 

Tonics are substances % 
ently improve the general health. 






180 



TKK BRliADMAKEK S COOKING LESSONS. 



MISCELLANEOUS, 



HOW TO BREATHE. 

As regards the lungs, the more fresh outdoor air you 
can get into them, the happier and more comfortable 
you will be. But it is not enough to get out in the 
open air ; you must learn how to breathe when you get 
there. Most people let year after year go by without 
once drawing a full breath. A quantity of impure air 
always remains at the bottom of their lungs, like bilge 
water in a ship; and it contaminates the whole system. 
If you will breathe properly, you may get more benefit 
from half an hour in your back-yard than any other 
person will from. a twelve-hours' dawdle at the seaside. 
It is a very simple matter ; breathe slowly, and breathe 
in as much air as you can possibly get into your lungs. 
When they will hold no more, then emit your breath as 
deliberately as 3'ou took it in. Suppose you are walking 
at your usual pace along the street, draw in your breath 
while you are taking seven steps; emit it while you are 
taking the next seven, and so on. It will make you feel 
queer at first; but keep it up! After practicing this 
every time you go out, for a week or two, you will be 
able to breathe in while you are taking eight or ten 
steps; and later on, even more. Then note the effects. 
After walking for a quarter of an hour, at a leisurely j)ace, 
on a winter's day, you will fin<l yourself warm enough to 
do without an overcoat. In half an hour you will be in 
a glow down to the tips of your fingers; in an hour you 
will feel as if your whole body had been vigorously 
exercised. And so it has. Take the measurement of 
your chest after a year of such practice, and you will 
initl it has increased in girth a matter of three inches. 
And your eyes will be brighter, your skin fresher, your 
stomach stronger, your muscles firmer— because you 
will have thoroughly aerated and oxygenized your blood. 
And you will have aciiuired the habit not only of breath- 
ing slowly and deeply while you are out walking and 



MlSCELLANli:OUS. 



181 



u . ^f hrr-ithiiu' in that manner all the time, 
exercising, but of ^f f ;'^;"^ aacnly to escape over a 
And if you are called no ^^^^^1^" > .^ ^J^^ ,^^\i 
ploughed field from a "lac , ,\re,tii__which might, 

Lble^to do so ^vithout k^suig >our 1^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^ ^^^^^ 

,n such a case be tanta"^o n ^o 1^^^ ^^^^^^^ ^^^ ^^^^, 

I need scarcely say tha ' ' '^^^^ \i^^-. -phat comes 
KtfiSt,S::wUl;^vS^Ulngagreatd.^ 

^^Ob^^U^eserulesfora^aran^^^^ 

SV^gin UhmU aboul ^^nna^tic^-Z/o.. W^^- 

ANTIDOTES FOR POISONS. 

O -If a person l,as swallowed a .mner.l poiso,,, su.h 

as arsenic, what '«/l'%''"^' f;,', "„ ^^Ifa teaspoonfnl ol 
A.-A tcaspoouful o ^"'I'l "^; " "^^^-^ ^f,',, ,, lUtle, 

warm water. vr'niabU; poison, 

.g;-UEa^;ra^::!'-:^.:ro^i,cac,iw.. 
' ^'"-" '-f •. -r^^^;;.;:^fw:n'n; ::::^';t^- 

!;-tJlortn^a!r;fl.>nc':..uc.>...-tcn,noc,. 

"°^LU laudannn, l,as been taken, wl.at is the best 
'"a -A'teaspoonfnl of oonnnon nu>stard ; and to keep 
^^"irdrnnl'L been taken, wlra. is the best ant,- 
%'.LAnnno„ia, which will neutralize the ill effects of 
'' y'!!u iodine has been tak,.n in too larRe a ,p,an.ity, 
«'X:J!i;l;:i.l;iu;grl^'u.e best antidotes for an over- 
dose of iodine. 



H 



182 



THE BREADMAKI%k's COOKING LESSONS. 



^'f.K 



'"■? 






U V 



Q. If a person feels faint from the fumes of prussic 

acid, what is the best antidote ? • 

A.— To smell the vapors of strong ammonia, which 
will soon restore consciousness. 

Q.— How are warts, etc., to be removed ? 

A. By rubbing them with common solid potash ? 

Q._\Vhat is the best antidote to verdigris? 

A. — Sugar, or white of egg. 

Q. What is the best antidote to corrosive sublimate ? 

A. White of egg, or milk ; which will conibme with 

them, and neutralize their poisonous qualities. 

Q. — If a person has eaten too much fruit, what is the 

best antidote ? 

A.— Lime, chalk, pearl-ash, magnesia, carbonate ol 
soda or soap-suds. (Ircat relief is often found by eating 
the hard part of cheese (cut close to the rind) thickly 
covered with common salt ; the reason is plain. 

BI-CARBONATE OF SODA. 

The value of soda to housc^keepcis, and some of the 
uses to which it may be put is thus set forth by a writer 
in Guixl Housekeeping \ 

A very slight quantity takes from tomatoes the 
unpleasantly sharp " twang." leaving only an appetizing 
suggestion of acid. In preparing stock for soups or 
gravies, one-half teaspoonful of soda to every quart of 
water will extract all the substance from remnants of 
meat, bones, Hver, etc., like magic. A little bit makes 
coffee very rich ; and if the water be hard, will soften it 
sufficiently to render the coffee the \ eritable " cup that 

cheers.'' 

Everything — the good temper and general well beingf 
of the family — depends upon tne cleanliness of the cot- 
fee pot, which in all orderly households is thoroughly 
washed and aired after using^ It should be k(>.pt sweet 
bv frequent " boilings out " with a generous pinch of 
soda in the water. Death lurks in tannin, and tannm 
abides in the coffee pot of a slatemly housekeeper. 

Dyspeptics find that this same " bicarb" carries "heal- 
ing in its wings" if regularly used. It creates appetite, 
tones up the stomach, and sweetens the system. Nausea 



MlSCUl-lA-^liO^S- 



183 



'^^lu.^ "f vc.u„no«s --\ -;y,,. Vor hives 
acts l,kea charm ^^^^^J^^tl^^ 0-"\V!.Lf ?™m 

vcJ >n W'>"^^ • ' ;,,tion will qniMy f""°"-, .^ w„th 
the buinin!,' atic '"."■'''°",i„,i to burns or scalds, bot'i 
soJa be imm'^'*'*"''^;", Pilule Ulhev purposes are 
wi and pain speedily ^»'«'f • .,„ ^f «hich it would 
sS'erved by Uus g-at .product " all o ^^^^^ ,^ . ^ 

be impossible to ^P>^'^'^''%,^',X is a fact beyond cav.l 
K„t the worlby housL.\vii^ ^^^^^^^^ doctor 

S:^^:;t'^:;ou:tt:t.|on-vt^^i^ 

St: ^iich'rStl devoutly .rate.l to the 
sitence of chemistry. 

„0W .O ...fOU. . S.K .U<0 .0 H....H ..^- 

sa d of domcsticatea Imdb n a ^^^^ ^o 

S[\iberty,insuncthkca^ un m ^^ thea sevcra 

them the sort ot tood ocb i restraint and cie 

',;'Ses. But when ca^'-d or u cle .^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^ 
J^ ent on man for ^^'in^oU, n ea ^ improperly 

with cheerful son-. ^-^-,^,.;'\,,„tly with crtu I neglect, 
temperature of 65 degrees, ^^^ ensure healthy an 1 






m 



184 



THK BKEADMAKER's COCKING LESSONS. 






A 



• .^ 



I -'Jig 

III 



Birds are often most cruelly neglected by their owners, 
sometimes being loft to the care of disinterested individ- 
uals, in which case they are irregularly fed and watered, 
and sonuitinies they have too much, but often too little. 
Water is frequently left in the cage until it not onl} 
becomes stagnant and too filthy to drink, but poisonous 
to the very atmosphere of the place, and positively in- 
jurious to human existence, and yet the poor bird has 
to drink it or go without, and the food that is given to 
such birds is very bad and extremely dirty. The cage 
in which such birds are kept is often found in the most 
gloomy part of the room, and might never have been 
cleaned out for years, and the perches would puzzle a 
Philadelphia lawy ■ tr» tell what they are made of on 
account of th.e dirt Ui! the poor bird is literally eat up 
with vermir-, whscr* bi( cd very rapidly under such favor- 
able circumstance;-, '^r is so worried by them in the 
night that it cannot get sleep, which is of more import- 
ance thai^, food, and gradually loses health and spirits, 
becomes weak and nervous, and stops singing from sheer 
exhaustion, and the owner of such a bird is heard ex- 
pressing surjnise that his bird has stopped singing ! 
That the bird should t;xist at all under such neglect and 
unfavorable surroundings is frequently a matter of great 
surprise to the writer. Thus the germs of discasfi are 
frequently sown and developed and medicine has to be 
resorted to. 

Disease is an effect, which like other effects cannot 
exist without a cause. Therefore, when a bird is sick, 
find out immcdialely, if possible, the cause, and have it 
removetl, and when the cause is removed, disease, the 
effect, will often gradually disappear without the aid of 
much medicine. Nature is the great }i<>aler in birds as 
well as in human beings ; all that we can do in cases 
of sickness is to assist nature to throw off disease and 
restore again to health and vigor. Some of the principal 
diseases to which birds are subject are as follows : — 
Colds, roup, constipatiovi, diarrhcea, inflammation, asth- 
ma, pij), obstruction of rumi) gland, surfeit, consumption, 
etc. We know, by many unmistakeable signs, when our 
pets are sick, but it is not always so easy, even for those 
who have made birds a life study, to distinguish one 



MISCULLANKOUS. 



185 



disease from another. How can U be '^^P^f ^ ^.^^ ,,^ 
tliose whose exiHTience amon;.' biiMs ^^. »'"^ ^^ > ^'^^^ 
ami so very Hm.ted ? I low olUn is one disease «"-l- .';;; 
:;;;; UeatJi for -nolher, and thus mjurv to Uie^iUU 
patient instead ol benefit is the sure u io avocl 

a th,s in such cases of sickness seek ,noper advice 
and the meantime remove the sick bird from all clratt 
fnto a re-ular temperature of 70 or 75 ^'^^'^^^^ .y'""''. 
irwell up every ni ;ht aurin^' tiie hours of .nactjv.ty and 
sleep when th. temperature of tiie room, like t u- lire m 
die sJove, is likely to become low, removing all ieed for 

Sauce must be placed upon proper .het and re^ub, 
attention. 

TO MEASURE CORN IN THE EAR IN HUIK. 

Multiply tiie len-th, brea.lth and luM^'l't t<;K-ll>er m 
feet Ttenths of feet, and multiply tins product by 4 
sUike off the right hand figure, and the rc-sult will be 
shelled bushels. 

TO MEASURE GRAIN IN T.UI.K. 

MnUinlv thelen-th, breadth and luight together in 
feeTaiKM.^! divide by 56 and multiply by 45. and 
the result will be struck measure. 

TO MEASURE WOOD. 

MnUinlv the len>nh, breadth and height in feet together 
and divKia^ The quotient will be cords and the 

remainder will be feet. 

THE USE OF LEMONS. 

For all people, in sickness or in health, lemonade is a 
satV dri k. t corrects biliousness ; it is a specific 
atains wirms and skin complaints. The p.ppms 
cnt led may also be mixed with water and sugar and 
use a a dr nk. Lemoi.-jmcc is the best auti-scorbutic 



MICROCOPY RESOLUTION TEST CHART 

(ANSI and ISO TEST CHART No. 2) 



1.0 



I.I 



1.25 



1^ m 

!r iiiiiM 

?r 114.0 



1.4 



II 2.5 
2.2 

2.0 



1.8 



1.6 



A ^IPPLIED IM/1GE Inc 

^^ 1653 East Main Street 

r-S Rochester, New York 14609 USA 

JSS (716) 482 - 0300 - Phone 

^= (7161 288 - 5989 - Fox 



186 THE breadmaker's cooking lessons. 

remedy known; it not only cures the disease but pre- 
ventslt. Sailors make a daily use of it for tins purpose 
rph;sician sn,,ests rubbing of the ^-ns da.ly .nt 
Ipmon-iuice to keep them m heallh. Ihe 1 ands ana 
naTs are also kept clean, white, soft and supple by daily 
se of lemon instead of soap. It also prevents chilblains 
I emon! used in intermittent fever, is mixed with strong. 
hoTbkck tea or cotfoe, without siigar. Neuralgia may 
b" cured by rubbing ihe part with lemon. It s yiu- 
able also to cure warts, and to destroy dandruff on 
'he hea b'bv rubbing the roots of the hair with it. In 
fact i?s uses are manifold; and the more we apply it 
externally, the better we shall find ourselves. 

BRILLIANT STUCCO WHITEWASH. 

Manv have heard of the brilliant stucco whitewash 
nn the fud of the President's h.ouse at Waslnngton. 
T^e following is a recipe for it, as gleaned from the 
NaH^r}l» with son>e additional improve- 
ments learned by experiment : 

Nice slacked hme one-half bushel; slack t uila 
boiling water ; cover it during the process to keep in 
he steam. Strain the liquid through a fine sieve o 
trailer and add to it, sah one peck; previously well 
<hss We'd fn water; rice three pounds--boiled to a thin 
na^e and stirred in boiling hot ; Spanish wlntmg one- 
hal iound; clean nice glue one pound, which has been 
previous y dissolved by so.king it well, and then hang- 
ed iave^ a slow fire, in a kettle, immersed in a larger 
o :e t lied with water. Now add hot water five gallons, 
to tile mixture; stir it well, and let it stand a lew days 
nfwrnrpd from the diit. , 

I should be put on hot. For this purpose it can be 

kept in a kettle or portable furnace. Brushes more or 

essVinall mav be used, according to the neatness of job 

required! It' answers as well as oil paint for brick or 

stone, and is much cheaper. 

TO MAKE VINEGAR. 

Acetic acid, four pounds ; molasses, one gallon : put 
thcr^ 1^0 a forty gallon cask, and fill it up with rain 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



18T 



water ; .hake it up and let stand from one to Aree 
weeks, and tl.e resnlt ,s Rood ^^-f, ;,ij J ^\ X"es. 

Take one pound or one pint, or ^^'V f^^'%'}l'^l' \..a 
^o.a. fnd add -ven t.n,es as n,uch » * ^^Xfrom 

you have just as good vuiepi as can u 
cickf, and that insUuitancously. 

TO CLKAN CARPI:TS. 

c;nrirMe tho carpet with tea leaves ; sweep well ; then 
the wet spots dry with a clean cloth. 

TO Cr.EAN I'AINT. 

Sconr with a flat b™s,. less 1-^;^^-^^-' -<•;; % 
streak the i)anit. 

now I'O SAVE MONEY. 

Everv man who is obliged to work for a living should 
maVe k a^m^to lay upl. Uttle money for a ramy day. 

Cl\ce o rod sate savmgs bank where you get a 
^^rl^er^st and the security of the Govenmicn^ Ac- 
cumulated money, drawn.g even small nUcre.t, is son e 
flung to be proud of, and it gives a man l^;^'^^^ J.^^;^^^ 
^, r ^r,n..t-c and j^et vour account started, ana 
th?n n2a%ul "add s^l^hin. to it every Week or 
: "thas^gte case n,ay be, no matter how smaU he 

de;!e^it!'^'^^^t^'^:eS^=r^ij:|;^ 

to enlarge U, and so it cre.des worthy anns and efforts. 



188 THE BREADMAKEr's COOKING LESSONS. 

RESULTS OF SAVING SMALL AMOUNTS OF MONEY. 

The following shows how easy it is to accumulate a 
fortune, provided proper steps are taken. The table 
shows what would be the result at the end of fifty years 
by saving a certain amount each day and puttmg it at 
interest at the rate of six per cent : — 

Daily Savings. Tlie Result. 

One cent ^ 950 

Ten cents 9.504 

Twenty cents 19,006 

Thirty cents 28,512 

Forty cents 3^.t>i5 

Fifty cents 47.5-^o 

Sixty cents 57.0-4 

Severty cents 66,5-8 

Eighty cents 7C'."32 

Ninetycents 85,527 

One tiollar 95.041 

Five dollars 475. 208 

Nearly every person wastes enough in twenty ' thirty 
years, which, if saved and carefully invests voul.l 
make a family quite independent ; but the principle ol 
small savings has been lost sight of in the gereral desire 
to become wealthy. Save all you can by prudcnU econ- 
omy, but act justly by paying your debts, and liberally 
by helping those in need. 






1 



INDEX. 



BKEAPMAKFAIS' COOKING LESSONS. 

I>AGR. 

Bread Sauce ^"1^. 

" Steiimea ;*•' 

BrfadiuakerB' Cake ;", 



PAGE. 

'29 

Almond Icing.......-;; yg 

Angels on Horseback "^ 

Annie's Cake ',-,2 

Animal Food ^^ 

Apple Ci'eam j.7 

" Jam c7 

" rudding ^^,g 

'• Sauce rj]^ 

«' Snow ••••. ,.,. 

•' Tapioca Pudding Jf> 

" Toast Water J^J 

Arrowroot ■ t^,^^ 



w 



Artichokes 



129 

s-^^^y :::: m 



with cream 
with 



Asparagus ... 

71 

Baked Custard .^. .■■•• ,„ 

Baking Powder Biscuits ^^,, 

Barley Soup "•;•■,• ^■>\ 

Beans. Canadian Baked -» 

French ..,j 

" Klaney ,1, 

'< Windsor -^^.^ 

Beef....- , 7;j 

" /l-/tt »io(ie 1^, 

" Corned .^q 

" Dried 7Q 

•' Boast gQ 

" Sausages ,^g 

" SpiceU .7g 

" Steak oQ 

" Stewed .•■ ,,, 

" with Vegetables........-^-- ';♦ 

" -with Yorkshire i'udding '-^ 

" Tongue ; •■• 77 

" steak in Bakmg Pan '' 

" Pie ^[ 

" Pudding ^Q2 

" Gravy ^^1 

Beet-roots 01 

Biscuit, Brown ^^ 

of Fruit ^^ 



Powder 



Breakfast Cake '" 

Uv.r»ujn KillK'n ■■ ' 



Brown Sauce 
Buckwheat Cakes 
Butter Crackora... 
Buttermilk Cake.. 
Butter Sauce 



•21) 

:u 
;i-2 
<j'.i 

Cabbage Pressing for \^l 

'• Pickled :|;{- 

" Salad {"^ 

Canned Peaches \\" 

Pears •''*" 

" Plums 

" Tomatoes 
" Apples 

Canning 

(^apci-s Pickled 



153 



Blackberry PreserveB J-- 

Blackcurrant Cordial ^*^ 

^^^^iviBuuer Sr|;i^*:.:::::::" ij; 

.. with Baking Powder !« 



14S 

14.S 
ll'.> 
147 

i;(0 

Caramel Cake " ' 

Carrots Stewed i^*! 

liil 



Boiled 

Cathartics 

Catsup, Tomato 

Walnut j!.', 

Caudle .!,". 

Cauliflower \-\ 

Pickled J^;J 

Celery |," 

Celery Soups \'" 

Chapin Cake ■ ;'" 

Clieap Sponge Cuke o'] 

Cherry Cordial \^.\ 

" Preserves ^''j 

Chicken, Fried ^' 

Boiled '•^;' 

Broth I'- 

•• Pie •'^ 

•' SaW l"!' 

Sauce for ''^ 

Soup ]^'l 

Chocolate - 7J 

•' Blanc Mimge '•" 

Cake •^l-'I'j 

Caramels ^* 

Creams 'J 

Icing f:;. 

Pudding ,V,;^, 

"' 'm 



Chow-Chow.... 



Brown........ •••■ .,„ Chowder ?" 

Brown. Boston ^^ ci.cle Cake '^^ 

Graham •■•••• j.^ | citron Preserved ^-''^ 



«' Pudding . 



11. 



INDEX. 



PAOR. 

Cocoauut BiscnitB • ^\ 

'< Cake 30-.37 

«• Pio ^7 

" Pu<ldiug. "'V 

" PuCfa ^i 

coffee 1^0-"4 

Cold Slaw -1^° 

Coleman Cake ff 

Colouring for Soups i"^ 

Cookies ,™ 

Coolinj,' Drinks l^^ 

Constijiatiou ■•■''* 

Corn Bread f-t 

•I Cak(^fl 

CornmearFlar.iacki' 3^ 

Corn Oysters ^ ^rf 

" Starch Blanc Manye "^ 

" " Cake '^ 

Cranberry Sauce l"i 

Cream Cake •;/ 

" Nectar i;?- 

II pja 50 

Crnat for Cream Pio 50 

CupCako fi 

Currant Tart ,«•/ 

CnrrantWino ^P 

Ouatard ^-f. 

" Caramel 'JJ^ 

«' Chocolate •■• '0 

i« Pin 5f> 

Custarda f^;;^ 



PAGE. 

Fruit Pudding 62 

Fritters °* 



Cucumbers 



iiaw i2f; 

Fried 1'' 

Pioklod 130 



Damson Tart 

Delicioua Cake 

Delicate Cakes 

Dou«hnut8 

Drop Ginger Cakea •-,■■, 

Dressing tor Turkey and Chicken 

Drinks 

Duck 

'• IloastI 

" Wild •• 



69 

3'2 

33 

38 

41 

41 

140 

140 

140 

140 



East 



India Pickles 131 



139 



George Washington Cake 

German Dish 

Gil)lot Sou)) 

Ginger Cordial 

" Snaps 

" Nuts 

" Bread 

Wine 

Gooseberry Tart ••• 

Grahum Bread 

Rolls 

Wheatlets 

Grandmother's Cliicken Pot Pio 

Gnipa Sweet iicklo 

Gravies 

Gbavujh to Make 

Gre«a Pea Soup 

" Corn Koiwted 

Green Gooseberries 

" Fig Preserves 



Eggs „ 

Eei? Sauce »» 

'• Plant 1^:^ 

Eggs with Wine ^^ 

Election Cuke l» 

Essence of Beef -loo 

Family Prescriptions 1^4 

Fermentation 1^ 

First Prize Bread ^o 

Fish and Game '* 

Flannel Cake f.f 

Flour Gruel I'i" 

Foam Sauce ^° 

French Pickle ^f^ 

Frosting and Icing ^^ 

Fruit Short Cake f' 

" Cake 45 



44 
W> 

1(H) 

142 
40 
40 
40 

143 
(59 
20 
20 
34 
97 

134 

riH 

10-2 
109 
123 
150 
156 



Hard Gingerbread! 39 

Hickory Nut C»ke 33 

noueycomb Gingerbread 41 

How to Corn Beef 7" 

" " Boil Beef S3 

" " Dry Fish 90 

Horseradish Sauce 100 

" Vinegar 139 

Hodge-Podge Soup 114 

Ice Cream Icing 30 

Isinglass ]\>} 

Imperial Drink iw 

Jelly Cake 32 

Johnny Cake Jjo 

Jelly Rolls 47 

J«lly Cake Roll 48 

" " Sponge 48 

Lessons IN Bread Making 10 

" inCake Making 26 

LadyFinqeri 50 

Lemon Biscuits '•l 

Cake 43 

" Pie 58 

" Pudding 63 

" Syrup 142 

Lemonade 146 

Lincoln Pie 5b 

Macaroons 46 

Management of Yeast 12 

Marble Cake 42 

Marian's Cake 44 

Marahmallow 10.> 

Martha's Cake 44 

MaTonaiso Dressing 107 

Milk Punch 1*'3 

Mince Pies />f^ 

Mint Sauce lOt-* 



I 



( 



INDEX. 



111. 



I 



( 



PAQK. 

iWinute Cake •• -'^ 

Mock Minco Pie 7.' 

Mola-ss Duiiipliug ''•* 

Molasses Cookioa ;'° 

" (rinsorbread >>J 

Mother'8 CookieB ^" 

bpougo Cake 4'> 

Muflins '"Ti 

Mulberry If" 

Mullagatawny J'" 

Mustard, To Make l'" 

Mutton and Lamb **o 

Brotb 1^^ 

■' Cbops "'• 

" Pot Pie *'5 

New Year's Cake *'^ 

OrancG Pie ^^ 

Our Plan .^ 

OyBter, Tried ^,^ 

Sausage 'l^ 

Ptew ,f;; 

" Soup \\* 

Ox Tail Soup "" 

3,9.52 



Pancakes , 

Pan-Kneiidinf; f* 

Parker House Kolla ^ 

;'!".' 59 

l'J,9 

■ V',G 

... i:i6 



PHrhni))S 

Peacli Pie 

Pickle LesKonB ... 

Pickled Apples .. 

" Cborrios 



Cucumbers 1^"| 

Peachea YJ^ 

Plums !•'" 



Pie Crust. 



^^ ^^ rA 

pYant'Pi'e •^'J 

Pies and Puddings S4 

Pino Apples ^*'' 

Plain Apple Pie «' 

" BlBCUitH •;';; 

" Prcad !•' 

" Fruitcake f 

Plum Cake 4° 

Pork Pot Pie 84 

PotutoeR ^f. 

Pound Cake V[ 

Pouiidodmeat P|^ 

Preface ''v, 

PrestTVod Citron i'>' 

Corn |49 

Melons 1S| 

Pumpkins 1'^** 



Puddings. 



m 



Economical.. 61 

Plum Gl 

Pudding, Cold. b« 

Good 102 

" fiance °^ 

Pumpkin Pie "^ 

" Soup 11'5 

Quail on Toast f' 

Quince Presorves 



156 



PAOR. 

Raised Cake 37 

Doui^linuts fj' 

Raisin Cake •■^ 

Raspberry Vinegar }.'« 

lied Cabbage ';!|; 

Kico lUscuit •>- 

" Flour Soup ''f; 

•' Muffins ^v 

•' Pie ^'■' 

" Pudding ^J. 

Rich Plum Cake ■.•._• f} 

Roast Poef "•'*'!;' 

Heart °" 

" Mutton ^1 

" Spare Kibs ^j 

Roasting .Coffee "} 

Rolls -'^ 

Salsify or Oyster Plant 123 

SaltiugPork ..^.^....^ »^ 

Sauce for Boiled !• ish »" 

" " Roost Turkey »" 

Sauces and Salads -JP 

School Cake , *- 

Scotoli Mutton Broth H^ 

Sbro^fsbnryCttke »" 

Soda in Soups ^i:^ 

SxdcodBoef '" 

" Veal " 

Splendid Ginger Boer 143 

Spongecake..... -j^ 

Sponge Jelly Cako *^ 

Squash Pie ^ ^ 

Steamed Brown Broad w 

Stowed Beef .^ 

Stewed Cauliflower i^i 

" Onions j-ff 

Strawborries \f> 

Strawberry Preserves l&< 

" Sliortcakc <»•' 

Stuffing for Fish -[^ 

Succatiisb }-» 

Summer Drink '^* 

Sweet Pickles '-^^ 

" Rubk ^* 

Table of Contents I 

Tapioca Pudding «•> 

Cream ^] 

Tapioca Soup .^.... 1''- 

Tea and Coffee Pots HO 

Tinie-Tnble for Roasting "J 

Tomato Salad 10[' 

" Soup <« 

TomatoeB, Raw J-i-' 

Stewed 1-5 

Baked l'-^' 

" Fried l'-'5 

" Pickled 1-2 

«' Catsup 137 

Tumbler Cake '^'^ 

Veal Soup 1^1 

" Cutlets ™ 

" Cbop f 

" Prepared °' 



ir 



•4 



IV. 



INDEX. 



Vogotable Marrow Soup 114 

Vegetables 1'** 

OiiKeU'cting Ha 

Water Cresses JO^ 

Watermelon Pickles loz 



FAOB. 

Welsh Karebit 1^7 

Wbite Flour Gravy. l^-^ 

White Soda BiKCUits ^^ 

•' Bridecake »" 

Wine Sauce (hot) ^ 

WiueWhey ^°-* 



MEDICAL AND GENERAL DEPARTMENT. 



PAG 11. 

AtQOunts of Money 188 

Antidotes for roisons ••;. j^l 

Appetite, To Improve lu9-i/.J 

Bicarbonate of Soda 182 

Bran and Hop Poultice l'^ 

Bread Poultice • ]l]. 

Brilliant Stucco Whitewash l^h 

Bryony Poultice l^"-^ 

Carpets, To Cleanse 187 

Cathartics and Purpatives 1''^* 

Chapped Hands and Face 171 

Comparative Values of loods ... H 

Cooling Lotions \^'> 

Counter Irritnnts i^o 

Corn, To Measure io& 

Dandruff, To Remove 174 

Dipostion, To Improve 1'^ 

Disinfectants l'» 



EnemBs or 
Emetics 



Injections 16^ 



167 



Eye Washes ^^"^ 



Fomentations 



167 



168 



Gargles 

Grain, To Measure !»» 

Hair Wash 1^ 

How to Breathe -lo" 



Indigestion . 



173 



PAGR. 

Lemons, Use of 185 

Liniments i'" 

Liuseed Meal Poultice I'l 

Lotions 1™ 

Materia Medica 177-9 

Mediciil Teas, etc jbH 

Mouth, Washes for l?* 

Mustard Poultice ^'^ 



Nerves, To Quiet, after Drink- 



ing 



174 



Neuralgia 1^3 

Offensive Sores and Feet 171 

Ointments 1'^ 

Paint, To Clean 187 

Piles 171 

Poultices ^'^ 

Besultsof Saving 188 

Bheumutism l'^ 

Sick Birds, To Cure 183 

SkinDiseas 8 i^» 

Sleep, To Produce 17* 

Sluggish Sores j'" 

Sprains and Bruises i'" 

To Fumigate Booms 176 

Tonics for Appetite !»» 

Vinegar, To Make 186 

Visiting Infected Rooms 177 



Worms 



170 



107 

103 

33 

50 

C8 

162 



AGE. 
. 1S5 
. 170 
. 171 
. 170 



177-0 
. 168 
. 174 
. 172 



174 
173 

171 
171 

187 
171 
171 



188 
173 

183 
168 
174 
170 
170 



176 
169 

186 
177 



170 



w 



