Veto? 



7 



V 



fh 



V 
CAaneN 

TO ALL WHO USE CANNED GOODS. 



Always remove contents from can as 
soon as opened. If entire contents of can 
is not used, keep balance in a glass or 
earthenware dish. 

Never open a can that is puffed or 
swelled; return it to your grocer, who will 
exchange it or return your money. 



NEW HARTFORD CANNING CO., Limited. 

The superior brand of "Cream" Corn sold by- 
Austin, Nichols & Co., New York, is packed 
by the above-named Company. Their factory 
is located in the town of New Hartford, Oneida 
Co., N. Y., in the midst of lands, which from 
the early settlement of the county, have been 
celebrated for their fertility and for their supe- 
rior adaptation to growing fruit, farinaceous 
and vegetable crops. The soil in the vicinity 
of the factory, where most of the corn is grown, 
is very rich, and the region has always been 
celebrated for the superiority in tenderness and 
richness of flavor of the sweet corn grown there. 
This brand of corn is packed principally from 
the variety known as Stowell's Evergreen, 
which from long experience has proved itself 
to be the best for canning purposes. 

The Company is composed of gentlemen of 
means who have taken great interest in the es- 
tablishment of the factory, and who watch very 
carefully all the details in connection with the 
canning. They purchase the seed, select the soil 
in which the corn is grown, use only the very 
best that is brought from the fields, and pack 
it in cans while the corn is tender and moist. 

The plant used in the factory consists of the 
most improved machinery, and the corn is 
handled and canned with greatest cleanliness. 
All of this care makes the product of this fac- 
tory celebrated throughout the United States 
for its high quality, and the New Hartford 
Canning Co.'s Cream Corn is to-day undoubt- 
edly superior to any produced in the United 
States.. 



to prevent scorching. Half a pint of milk 
added to it gives it the right consistency for 
dainty diners — a pint of milk gives it that con- 
sistency effected by cheap restaurants. When 
two or more cans are to be used, do not pre- 
pare the second can until the first is used. 

Cream Sugar Corn, au Gratin. 

Grease a pudding-dish with butter, line the 
bottom with macaroni or spaghetti, add the 
contents of a can of New Hartford Canning 
Co.'s Cream Sugar Corn, an ounce of butter, 
half a pint of seasoned gravy, soup stock or 
butter, strew over the top a layer of grated 
bread crumbs, on top of this add a layer of 
grated cheese and a pat of butter, bake fifteen 
minutes in a quick oven. 

Cream Sugar Corn with Tomatoes. 

Equal quantities of solid tomatoes and Cream 
Sugar Corn in alternate layers. First put a thin 
slice of bacon or ham fat in the pan, then the 
vegetables in layers with salt and white pep- 
per, add a thick layer of bread crumbs, two 
pats of butter on top and bake twelve to fifteen 
minutes. 

A spoonful of New Hartford Canning Co.'s 
Cream Sugar Corn added to each portion of 
Tomato Soup is a charming deviation. 



5 
Cream Sugar Corn Maryland Style. 

Cut quarter of a pound of raw bacon into 
small dice, fry these crisp and remove them, 
but keep them hot. Put into the bacon fat half 
a can of New Hartford Canning Co.'s Cream 
Sugar Corn, toss it about three minutes and 
turn out on a hot dish, strew over the top the 
crisp bits of bacon and serve with corn bread. 

Cream Sugar Corn Fritters. 

Open a can of New Hartford Canning Co.'s 
Cream Sugar Corn, put it in a bowl with two 
eggs well beaten, half a teaspoonful of salt, a 
pinch of cayenne pepper, half a pint of milk, 
two ounces of melted butter, and enough sifted 
flour to make a stiff batter. Drop spoonfuls of 
this in smoking hot fat, and fry as you would 
doughnuts. 

Cream Sugar Corn Griddle Cakes. 

Add half a pint of milk to a can of New 
Hartford Canning Co.'s Cream Sugar Corn and 
heat it, beat up two eggs in a bowl, add a tea- 
spoonful of sugar, two saltspoonfuls of salt 
dissolved in a gill of water, five tablespoon- 
fuls of flour and ten tablespoonfuls of the corn. 
Mix well ; this makes a thick batter. Just be- 
fore using, stir in a teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der ; use only one tablespoonf ul of the batter 
to each cake. 



Cream Sugar Corn Omelet. 

Beat together three eggs, two tablespoonfuls 
of milk and three tablespoonfuls of New Hart- 
ford Co.'s Cream Corn. Grease the omelet 
pan and wipe it dry, add fresh grease enough 
to coat the bottom of the pan, pour in the beat- 
en egg. When it sets strike the handle of the 
pan with the side of the left hand and begin 
slanting the omelet. Have ready a heaping 
tablespoonful of warm corn, add it to the ome- 
let just before folding, deftly turn out on a hot 
dish, dust sugar over it and singe the sugar 
with a hot rod. If not objected to a few spoon- 
fuls of spirits may be added and set on fire. 
This dainty may be served at luncheon or as a 
dinner dessert. 

Cream Sugar Corn Hash. 

A delightful hash is made as follows : Cut a 
small onion into fine pieces and fry it brown, 
cut half a pound of flank steak into dice, add 
it to the onion with a gill of hot water and as 
much Cream Sugar Corn as meat, stir back and 
forth in the pan with a spoon, add salt and pep- 
per, and when the moisture has sufficiently 
evaporated serve. 

Cream Sugar Corn Curry. 

Fry a chopped onion brown in a pan with a 
tablespoonful of dripping. Add a teaspoonful 
of curry powder, cook three minutes and add 



half a can of New Hartford Canning Co.'s 
Cream Sugar Corn, a dash of salt and a pint of 
hot water or soup stock, stir well. Slice half a 
pound of cold meat of any kind, warm it in 
the dish, dredge in a teaspoonful of brown 
flour, mix well and place on back of range till 
wanted. 

To Stuff a Young Pig. 

Our Cream Sugar Corn is the very nicest 
thing known to stuff a young pig with. Use 
one can of New Hartford Canning Co.'s Cream 
Sugar Corn, two ounces of butter, a teaspoon- 
ful of mixed herbs, half a teaspoonful of black 
pepper, two mashed potatoes, a teaspoonful of 
salt, and one egg. Mix well, stuff and sew up 
the pig. 

Cream Sugar Corn Salad. 

Use one-third each of New Hartford Canning 
Co.'s Cream Sugar Corn hot, one-third hot 
boiled potatoes, and one-third cold meat, mix 
and moisten with hot clear soup, season with 
salt, pepper, olive oil and vinegar. Place in ice 
box to become cold. To serve put on each 
plate a leaf of lettuce, add two teaspoonfuls of 
the salad and serve. 

Succotash need not necessarily be made with 
a combination of lima beans and corn, string 
beans, either canned or fresh, are just as appro- 
priate. Equal quantities of baked beans and 
Cream Sugar Corn is also an appetizing dish. 



8 

Housekeepers of ten ask the question : "What 
brand of canned goods can I depend upon to 
suit my family ?" In reply to this we recom- 
mend the brands mentioned below as of uni- 
formly excellent quality, and for sale at mode- 
rate prices by leading retail grocers throughout 
the United States. We grade the various arti- 
cles mentioned as "Fancy," "Extra" and 
"Standard," the "Fancy" grade is the best 
that it is possible to produce; the "Extra" of 
superior quality, but not quite equal to the 
"Fancy," and the "Standard" a medium 
grade of sound and wholesome goods sold at 
prices suitable to moderate incomes. Retail 
dealers are authorized to refund purchase 
money for all canned goods bearing our name 
that are not as represented by us. 



FISH. 

Lobster, Mt. Desert, fancy. 

'* Monroe, extra. 

" Casco Bav, extra. 

Salmon, William Humes', fancy. 

VEGETABLES. 






Asparagus, A. N. & Co.'s, White Label, fancy. 
Oyster Bav, extra. 
" Tips, " «' * " 

Beans, Lima, " Small, fancy. 

" Stringless, " Black Label, fancy. 

" Acme, extra. 

" Ontario, Standard. 
Corn, A. N. & Co.'s, Cream, fancy. 

" Peerless, extra. 

Wilton, standard. 
Okra & Tomatoes, '< Extra. 



VEGETABLES.— Continued. 

Tomatoes, A. N. & Co.'s Hand-packed, fancy. 
" " Acme, extra. 

Chief, •« 
" " Arlington, standard. 

Succotash, Wilton, fancy. 

Peas, " Paris, " 

" " Sifted, Early, fancy. 

" •• Early June, extra. 

" " White Marrowfat, extra. 

" '* Champion of England, 

FRUITS. [extra. 

Apricots, Big Tree, extra. 
Blackberries, A. N. & Co.'s, Lawton, fancy. 
Cherries, " Red, fancy, 

" White, " 

" Big Tree, extra. 

Peaches, A. N. & Co.'s, Rare, ripe, fancy. 
" " Crawford Late, extra. 

" " White Heath, fancy. 

" Big Tree, Lemon Cling, extra. 
" " White Heath, extra. 

" " Muhr extra. 

" w Yellow Crawford, extra. 

Pears, A. N & Co.'s, Bartlett, fancy. 

" Big Tree, Bartlett, extra. 
Pineapple, A. N. & Co.'s, Grated, fancy. 
" " Chipped, " 

Sliced, " 
Plums, A. N. & Co.'s, Yellow Egg, fancy. 
" " Green Gage " 

" Big Tree, Yellow Egg. extra. 
•■ " Green Gage, " 

Raspberries, A. N. & Co., fancy. 
Strawberries, " Preserved, fancy. 

" " Heavy Syrup, extra. 

Respectfully, 

AUSTIN, NICHOLS & CO., 

Importers and Wholesale Grocers, 
Hudson, Jay and Staple Sts., New York. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 484 604 7 f 



\ 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 484 604 7 • 



