rx 

J 53 
Hf8 
















a. 





















* \ x 









A 



^ X 



o 




$■ 


^ 






V 




*L. 









V -^ 



f -^ 















'A 

\ 

V V" 

.V 



t/> '.A 



t/> «V 



^% 









.V 









j* -\ 



Oo 












a 






HOOVEE'S 

Book of Reeipes; 

An Invaluable Collection of 

nmn s mcnea mim, 

\ni Hidden fSecPeitf Revealed. 



WRITTEN BY 

-s«. S. HOOVSRP- 



HOOVER'S 



i3ook o H rL^ipe^ 



AN INVALUABLE COLLECTION OF 



PRIYATE AND PRACTICAL RECIPES, 



f\Y)d JHidder? Seerets Revealed, 



WRITTEN BY 




M. S. HOOVER. 



LOUISVILLE. OHIO: 
L. P. BISSELL & CO., PRINTERS, 

1888. 



^ 



& 



^ 



Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1888, 

By M. S. HOOVER, 

In the office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington. 



INTRODUCTION. 

The compiler, in presenting this little work on crude, 
organic remedies, does not propose to run a tilt with any 
schools of medical practice, however much they may be 
opposed to common sense and reason, and to the divine or- 
dinances of nature, nor will he treat with contempt the 
teachings and practices of great and wonderful names, or 
oppose the pride, interest, expectation or conscientious 
convictions of a learned, honorable and influential profes- 
sion. 

My object is simply to present many new and curious, 
if not startling, facts, not only well worthy of the earnest 
consideration of the more intelligent portion of the com- 
munity, who demand reasons, the most profound, to lead 
them to conviction of the truth, but also by the great mass 
of humble people, who desire, amid all the grand reforms 
in human society, above all things to secure a sound mind 
within a sound body, and to feel something of that exalted 
state of happiness which alone can arise from the posses- 
sion of the most robust and rubicund physical and moral 
health. 



4 INTRODUCTION. 

It must be palpable to every thinking mind that 
therapeutical and pharmaceutical science is the very 
foundation of the healing art divine. In the language of 
the holy writ, "The Lord has created medicines out of the 
earth and he that is wise will not abhor them." Now 
what are the sins of the father which are thus visited upon 
their unfortunate offspring? Sin has been defined as a 
violation of the laws of God, and the sinner is one who lives 
in the daily or habitual violation of the physical, organic, 
mental or moral laws of the Creator. Indeed, all pain, 
disease or premature death, not only in this world, but in 
that which is to come, from the violation of creation's 
laws, the wages of sin is death. The annals of research 
demonstrate that nearly one-third of the diseases which 
afflict mankind are hereditary, and have been handed 
down from parents to progeny, in consequence of these 
violations of organic laws. What an interesting fact is 
here revealed to the thought, that at least one-third of the 
disease now afflicting mankind will run into the next gen- 
eration. 

M. S. HOOVER. 



RBCIPES. 



ASTHMA AND DROPSY. 

Take the seed of larkspur one ounce; diluted alcohol 
one pint; let macerate in a bottle for ten days. This has 
been found useful in spasmodic asthma and dropsy. The 
dose is ten drops, three or four times a day, or more fre- 
quently until some effect is noticed. 

ASTHMA, TO CURE. 

Take extract of Indian hemp root one drachm, ex- 
tract of licorice root one ounce; extract of dandelion one 
ounce, salt of tartar one-half ounce; warm water 1 quart. 
Mix, and let dissolve. Dose, one tablespoonful, three or 
four times a day. This has frequently proven beneficial not 
only in relieving but in curing Asthma. 

ASTHMA PILLS. 

Take powdered elecampane root one drachm; licorice 
root one drachm, anise seed one drachm; sulphur one 
drachm. Mix, and make into ordinary sized pills, with a 
sufficient quantity of tar, and take three or four of the pills 
at night on going to bed. This is an admirable remedy for 
asthma and shortness of breath. 



6 HOO VERS RECIPES. 

ASTHMA ELIXIR. 

Take honey 4 ounces; licorice root 4 ounces; flowers 
of bensoin 1 drachm; gum opium 1 drachm; gum camphor 
2 scruples; oil of anise \ scruple; salt of tartar 1 ounce; di- 
luted alcohol 1 quart. Let macerate a few weeks, shaking 
the bottle frequently, then strain for use. The dose is 
from 20 to 100 drops for an adult and from 5 to 20 for 
children. Also good for whooping cough, taken 3 to 6 
times a day. 

AGUE OR CHILLS AND FEVER, TO CURE. 

Take 1 quart of old rye whisky; put two tablespoons- 
ful of fine grated garlic; a lump of asafetida the size of an 
average hazel nut. Shake the bottle frequently, until all 
is dissolved or soaked through. Let the bottle stand 3 or 4 
days before using. Take one-fourth to one gill morning 
and evening until the fever is broken. Continue for 
several days. 

ADHESIVE OR STICKING PLASTER. 

Take equal parts of senuvitrified oxide of lead and 
fine rosin ; melt together and spread on thin oil cloth. 
Very good for back ache. 

AGUE AND FEVER, A WARRANTED CURE. 

Take 1 J ounces cloves; 1^ ounces cream tartar; 1 ounce 
Peruvian bark. Pulverize all to a fine powder, put into 1 
quart of port wine, and let it macerate for 6 days. Then 



HO VERS RECIPES. 7 

take the tincture on the well days as often as the stomach 
retains it well. 

ANODINE BALSAM. 

Castile soap 1 ounce ; liquid opium \ ounce ; gum 
camphor 6 drachms ; saffron 1 drachm ; spirits of wine or 
diluted alcohol 18 ounces. Put in a bottle and let 
stand for 10 days, shaking the bottle frequently, except 
the last two days. After it settles pour it off clear for use. 
In nervous colic this remedy is of great service, and it 
cleanses all the viscera and glandular parts. It is even 
good in jaundice, and such distempers of the uriuary passa- 
ges as proceed from the obstructions of gravelly or 
slimy humors. Dose, for internal use is from 20 to 50 
drops ; for external use wet a large rag and lay it on the 
sore or painful part. It does excellent service. 

ANATOMY OF THE BRAIN AND NERVES AT BIRTH. 

The brain of the human being is equal to about one- 
sixth the total weight of the body, weighing about 16 
ounces. It gradually grows and increases to the average 
age of thirty, when it attains its size and weight. At this 
time of life the brain of the male weighs about 52 ounces, 
that of the female about 48 ounces. So it will be per- 
ceived that the brain of the male weighs about 4 ounces 
more than that of the female. But when we come to ex- 
amine the minute anatomy of the female brain, we find 
that its texture is much finer than that of the male, so 



8 HOO VERS RECIPES. 

that the less quantity is made up for by the superior quality, 
though there is so much difference in size and weight ; yet 
every one knows that they are of equal value. There is a 
very intimate relation between the size and quality of the 
human brain and the intellectual and moral power mani- 
fested during life. The brain of Isaac Newton weighed 
64 ounces, that of Daniel Webster 57 ounces. As we 
said before, the average weight of the brain at birth is 16 
ounces. 

ASTHMA, A CURE FOR. 

Take of elecampane, angelica, comfrey, spikenard 
root, and horehound tops, each 1 ounce. Bruise and 
steep in a pint of honey. Dose, a tablespoonful taken hot 
every 4 minutes until relief is obtained, then several times 
a day until cured. 

ALTERATIVE, A VALUABLE SYRUP. 

American sarsaparilla root, yellow parrilla, dandelion 
and burdock root, of each 1 pound ; guaiacum shavings, 
poke root, blue flag, elder blossoms, bark of sassafras root, 
of each \ pound. Cut the roots into small pieces and boil 
all together in 4 gallons of water down to 4 quarts. Let 
stand to cool and settle, and then strain and press out. 
Then add 8 pounds white sugar. Heat and stir to melt 
the sugar, and when cold bottle for use. Dose, 1 ounce 3 
times a day. It is an excellent alterative in all constitu- 
tional diseases, and impurities of the blood, and especially 



HOOVER'S RECIPES. 9 

in skin diseases, secondary syphilis and liver complaint, 
rheumatism or scrofula. 

To make it still better, add to each pint a drachm of 
iodide of potassia, which is very good for the blood at all 
times. 

AN ALTERATIVE POWDER FOR THE LIVER. 

Take equal parts of blue flag root, blood root, may-apple 
root, golden seal root, bitter root, h ounce each. Pulver- 
ize all fine. Dose as an alterative, and to act on the liver 
and secretions, from 3 to 5 grains 2 or 3 times per day. To 
be taken as a powder. 

ASTHMA AND ASTHMATIC COUGH REMEDY. 

Take elecampane root, comfrey root, spikenard root, 
horehound herbs, of each one ounce ; wild cherry bark ^ 
ounce. Simmer in 3 pints of water down to one pint, then 
strain and add 1 pint of brown sugar ; strain again and add J 
pint of old Jamaica rum. Dose, one ounce at morning, 
one at noon, and particularly one at night before going 
to bed. This valuable syrup has proven beneficial in hun- 
dreds of cases where great difficulty was experienced in 
breathing and cough was very troublesome. May be taken 
\ hour after meals. 

ANCIENT WORM ELIXIR. 

Gum of myrrh and aloes, each 1 ounce ; saffron, sage 
leaves and tansy leaves, each h ounce ; tincture all the 
above in a pint of brandy for 2 weeks. Give children a 



10 HOOVERS RECIIES. 

teaspoonf ul once a week to once a month as a preventive. 
As long as you use this mixture will never have worms. 

ANCIENT SOOTHING SYRUP, 

To a pound of honey add a teaspoonf ul of pargeoric 
and a teaspoonful oil of anise. Mix well and add enough 
water to make a thick syrup. Bottle for use. Dose, for 
children teething, a teaspoonful occasionally. 

AN OLD BUNION CURE. 

Put saltpetre in a bottle with olive oil sufficient to 
dissolve the former, or to make a thick syrup. Shake well 
and rub the inflamed parts or joints morning and evening: 
or oftener if necessary. A cure will result. 

CURE FOR A HIDE-BOUND HORSE. 

4 ounces saltpetre ; crude antimony 1 ounce ; sulphur 2^ 
ounces. Pulverize to a fine powder, and mix well. Dose, 
a teaspoonful every day in bran for 8 or 10 days. A cure 
will follow. 

FOR WORKING THE BLOOD DOWNWARDS AND 
PROMOTING THE MENSES. 

Take the bark of barberry root, 1 ounce ; horseradish 
and garden carrot roots each an ounce, in a pint of good 
old rye whiskey. Mix and let it stand 6 days. Dose, a 
good swallow before each meal, to be continued for some 
time. 



HOOVER'S RECIPES. 11 

REMEDY FOR WEAK EYES. 

In a pint of good whiskey put 2 ounces of rosemary 
leaves ; shake the bottle occasionally for 3 days ; then 
strain. To a teaspoonful of this tincture add 4 teaspoons- 
f ul of warm water, and wash the eyes well every even- 
ing, getting it well into the eyes, under the lids. Grad- 
ually make the liquid stronger until you can use equal 
parts of the water and tincture. Use for several weeks. 

ALTERATIVE OR LIVER POWDER. 

Podophyllum 10 grains ; sanguinaria 10 grains ; lep- 
tandrin 20 grains ; white sugar 40 grains. Mix all together 
and divide in 20 powders. Take one night and morning. 
If they operate too much on the bowels, take but one a 
day. They are invaluable in liver complaints, torpidity of 
the liver, or as an alterative to act on the secretions of the 
system. Is free from any danger. 

A WORK SHOP. 

This is what every farmer should have. Let it con- 
tain a bench with a vise and a complete set of carpenter's- 
tools, paints, pots, and brushes of two or three sizes ; an 
assortment of files, cold chisels and a monkey wrench, be- 
side a stock of boards and timber of various kinds. Add 
to this a few awls, wax thread, rivets, a set of punches, 
and leather. Instruct the bovs in the use and care of the 



12 HOOVERS RECIPES. 

tools. Thus provided many a profitable day's work may 
be done by the industrious farmer. 

ANTEVERSION OF THE WOMB. 

This form of displacement is always produced by 
pressure from above acting upon the womb beneath, forc- 
ing it over in front against the bladder. Now, it is very 
evident that it will be utterly impossible for any passarie 
or other instrument introduced into the vagina to raise the 
womb off the bladder, and retain it in its proper position. 
This can only be accomplished by removing the pressure 
from above, by shortening the waist of the dress, so that 
the belt does not come down more than three inches below 
the breasts, removing all whale bone, abandoning the cor- 
sets, and adjusting the skirts to a well-fitting undervest. 
When all weight and pressure from above has been re- 
moved from the womb as directed, the weakened and re- 
laxed ligaments of this organ may be induced to contract 
by the use of cold hip baths, and astringent injections, 
frictions over the lower part of the abdomen, inside of the 
hips, with a coarse towel, night and morning, in a reclin- 
ing position, and the use of astringent tonics internally, 
such as iron, quinine, nux vomica, etc. 

ANCIENT CHOLERA BALSAM. 

Chloroform 1 fluid ounce ; laudanum, spirits laven- 
der, spirits camphor, essence Jamaica ginger, essence pep- 
permint, essence cinnamon, each 1 ounce ; simple syrup 



HOOVER S RECIPES. 13 

16 ounces. Mix all together, and it is ready for use. It 
will cure cholera morbus, diarrhoea, dysentery, colic, pains 
in the bowels, of either children or adults. Dose, a ta- 
blespoonf ul for an adult ; ten years old a teaspoonf ul ; in- 
fant \ teaspoonful diluted in milk. Do not swallow all 
at once, but take gradually. Repeat dose every 15 min- 
utes for adults ; every two hours for an infant, as the case 
may be, until the pains subside. Shake the bottle before 
using. 

APPETITE AND DIGESTION, TO INCREASE. 

Also to purify the stomach and nervous system, and 
improve the secretions from the skin, kidneys and bowels. 
Take tincture collinsonia 2 ounces; simple syrup 2 ounces. 
Dose, a teaspoonful 4 times a day. 

AIRING FEATHER BEDS. 

The sun should not shine directly on them, as it is air, 
not heat, that is required. We have seen beds lying on 
roofs where the direct rays of the sun had full power on 
the feathers. No doubt they were stewing, and the oil in 
the quills getting rancid, so that the bed would smell worse 
than before. Always air beds in the shade on cold or cool 
and windy days. Feather beds should be opened every 3 
or 4 years and the ticks washed, the seams soaped and the 
feathers renovated. It would seem that feathers were 
never intended for humanity to sleep on, as they are de- 
bilitating. Straw or corn husks are much preferable to 



14 HOOVERS RECIPES. 

feathers. Very true is it that the care of beds is not al- 
ways understood, even by some of our good old house- 
wives. Run your clothes line or wire under a tree and 
hang your bed in the shade. The cool air will take away 
that strong smell and the heat of the sun will not melt the 
feathers so as to get lumpy, almost before you get them 
into the house. 

A KEY, TO REPLACE. 

When a key is lost or broken buy one at the hard- 
ware store. If the new key does not fit the lock, smoke it 
over a candle, insert in the key hole, and press it firmly 
against the wards inside the lock. The marks on the key 
will show where to file away to let it turn. 

BALSAM APPLE LINIMENT. 

This is made by infusing the apple, deprived of the 
seeds, in olive oil. Applied to chapped hands, burns and 
old sores, or piles, it is very healing. The fruit itself is 
sometimes mashed and used in the form of a poultice. It 
is poisonous if taken inwardly. 

Bunions, to Cure. 

Take extract of stramonium -^ ounce; add to this 
glycerine 2 drachms, iodide of cadmium 1 drachm. Mix 
and rub together. A plaster of this should be put on the 
bunions every night until cured. 



SO OVERS RECIPES. 15 

BAL8AM FOR INTERNAL BLEEDING FROM LUNGS AND STOM- 
ACH or Nose. 

Also for bleeding from the womb. Put sulphuric 
acid 2J ounces by weight in a glass and slowly add oil of 
turpentine one fluid drachm, stirring it all the time with a 
stick. Add slowly one fluid drachm of alcohol, and con- 
tinue to stir as long as any fumes arise from the mixture. 
Then bottle in a glass stoppered bottle; it should be a clear 
red color. Dose to be taken by putting 40 drops into a tea 
cup, and stirring well with a teaspoonful of sugar; then 
stir in water till the cup is about full, and drink quickly. 
Repeat every hour for three or four hours. Should the 
bleeding stop then, use no more at the time. 

Boils and Sores of all Kinds, To Cure. 
Take bees-wax 2 ounces ; hog's lard 1 ounce; mut- 
ton tallow 1 ounce; rosin 1 ounce. Melt all together; use 
like other plasters, or tie on with a rag if convenient to 

do so. 

Bleeding at the Stomach. 

Take one pound of yellow dock root, dry it thor- 
oughly and pound it fine ; boil it in one quart of milk and 
strain it off. Use one gill three times a. day. 
Baldness, To Cure. 

Take 1 ounce sugar of lead ; 1 ounce lac sulphur. 
Mix and dissolve in a quart of rain water. Pour off after 
it settles, then strain. Use two or three times a day 
on the hair. This will both preserve and color the hair. 



16 HOOVERS RECIPES. 

BEEFGALL LINIMENT. 

Take 1 pint of pure alcohol ; 1 ounce gum camphor ; 

1 beef gall. Mix the gall and alcohol thoroughly, then 
add the camphor. Shake the bottle well before using. 
The above receipt is the best in use for sprains, rheumatism 
pains in the joints, bones and all diseases requiring an 
outward application. Rub the sore parts well 3 or 4 times 
during the day, and on retiring at night. 

BATEMAN'S DROPS. 
Paregoric 10 ounces ; tincture of castor 4 ounces ; 
laudanum 1 ounce ; tincture of saffron 1 ounce ; oil of 
anise 15 drops. Mix. Dose, one tablespoonful in case of 
a cold or cough. 

BREAST ELIXIR FOR COUGH AND ULCERS 
OFTHE LUNGS. 

Balsam of tulu 2 ounces ; balsam of Peru 1 ounce ; 

flowers of benzoin \ ounce ; crocus J ounce ; spirits of wine 

2 pints. Dose, 1 teaspoonf ul 2 or 3 times a day until it 
will physic; if too much take less or more as the case may 
be. A purifying remedy for the breast, cough and ulcers 
of the lungs. 

BLOOD, AN EXTRA PURIFYER FOR WOMEN. 

Take crocus J drachm ; nutmeg flowers h drachm ; 
cloves \ drachm ; cinnamon bark 1 drachm ; white sugar 

3 ounces. Pulverize all together and put it in a pint of good 
wine. Set the bottle in the sun for three or four days ; 
shake the bottle frequently. Dose, 2 ounces morning and 



HOOVERS RECIPES. 17 

evening. This is to bring the monthly time in women, if 
well attended to. 

BURNS, TO CURE. 

Take 2 tablespoonsf ul of sweet oil ; 1 tablespoon of 
litharge ; 1 tablespoon of water. Mix all well together. 
Put this ointment on the burn every 3 or 4 hours. 
BURNS AND SORES-A LEAD SALVE. 

Sweet oil 1 pint ; white wax \\ ounces ; sugar 2 
drachms; pulverize and mix with a part of the oil. 
Then melt the wax with the rest of the oil by the heat, not 
too hot, then mix all together and stir until cold. Good 
for burns and sores of all kinds. 

BLOOD PURIFYINGTSNCTURE. 

Take senna leaves 3 ounces ; licorice root 3 ounces ; 
rhubarb root 3 ounces ; jalap 1 ounce ; coriander seed ^ 
ounce ; fennel seed J ounce ; red sanders wood J ounce. 
Make all to a coarse powder, put into a bottle, and put 
into it one gallon of good old rye whiskey. Set the bottle 
out in the sun for 9 days ; shake the bottle a few times 
every day, then press the juice out and strain through a 
cloth. Put the tincture in a bottle again and put in a 
pound of white sugar. Let the bottle stand again for 9 
days, then it is ready for use. Dose, a tablespoonful 
morning and evening. If it will not physic in a few days, 
increase the dose, or take it three times a day. It ought 
not to physic too freely, only to keep the bowels open. Can 
be used before meal time. 



18 HOOVERS RECIPES. 

BURN, BY FIRE OR HEAT, TO CURE. 

Take \ pint of linseed oil ; 1 tablespoon of lard ; 1 
spoon of rosin ; burn old shoe soles to ashes and dust the 
ashes through a thin cloth. Bring the above articles to a 
boiling point, then let cool off so as to warm, then put in 
a tablespoon of the shoe sole powder, and stir until cold. 
Put of this on the burn and it will draw the heat and fire 
out and ease the inflammation. 

BREASTS, SORE, ON A WOMAN. 

Take 2 tablespoons of strong vinegar ; 1 pint of rain 
water; one teaspoon of sugar. Mix well, warm it and 
put on a thick rag, and lay it on the sore. Put on fresh 
whenever the rag gets dry. 

BROKEN CHINAOR GLASSWARE CEMENT. 

Dissolve -J ounce of gum acacia in 2 ounces of boiling 
water. Add plaster of Paris sufficient to form a thick 
paste. Apply to the broken glass with a brush. This is a 
good glass cement. 

BREAD, AN EXPLANATION OF. 

More fresh bread and hot cakes are eaten in America 
than in all the rest of the world, simply because we have so 
few good bread makers. It is comparatively easy for peo- 
ple to eat warm sour dough, but when old and stale it 
would not be tolerated by the most vigorous stomach. 
Many persons have discovered that it is a great accom- 
plishment for a lady to make good bread, and is an accom- 
plishment that any lady may well be proud of. It is a far 



HOOVERS RECIPES. 19 

greater accomplishment than to play elegantly upon the 
organ, and it indicates a higher order of talent and as 
much industry and application to learn the art. It re- 
quires a little time and experience, which can only be ac- 
quired by practice to teach young ladies how to play ele- 
gantly upon the organ or to make wax flowers, but to 
make good bread, observation has taught me that more 
than thirty young ladies can play on the organ where one 
can make good bread. In the great lottery of matrimony, 
when a man marries a woman who can and does make 
good bread every time, it is because she knows how, and 
not by guess, or by accident, but by understanding it 
thoroughly. 

BALD HEADS, AND WHY SO. 
On their heads it is the fashionable and heavy stove 
pipe hat that is worn by men at the present day, which be- 
ing composed of impervious materials, preventing the escape 
of perspiration and causing the scalp to become moist and 
hot, when the hair sickens and dies, and will fall out all 
over the top of the head, leaving only a little strip of hair 
around the base of the scalp, below the hat. If many 
gentlemen could only draw their sweat-boxes down on 
their heads an inch lower it would take every hair out of 
their scalps as clean as the palm of their hands. It has 
often been noticed that persons who never wear any cover- 
ing upon their heads, never lose their hair, nor does it 
turn gray so soon. We will find at least a thousand mei 



20 HOOVER 'S RECIPES. 

who wear the present fashionable stove pipe, or steam box, 
steaming or scalding the hair all off their heads. Soft, 
porous felt hats, or hats with large openings, or a ventila- 
tor in the crown, and worn only for a short time, are most 
favorable for the growth and preservation of the hair. 
Why do women not get bald ? 

BEARDS, WHYSOME MEN CANNOT RAISE. 

The quality and quantity of the beard depends upon 
the condition of the seminal organs, and the influence of 
the seminal fluid in modifying its growth. How few 
young men, when they survey their vain efforts to estab- 
lish a respectable beard, have any idea that their failure to 
do so has any relation to the condition of the seminal 
organs, or the influence or want of seminal fluid to de- 
velop a strong beard. Some men are half women, so born 
by nature. A heavy and flowing beard is an evidence of 
vigorous seminal organs. How few young men appear to 
understand and appreciate the truth of this maxim. How 
few persons when they marry in the morning of their lives, 
and in the vigor of their manhood, have any idea of the 
ruinous effects of sexual excess. Having abused them- 
selves, they are becoming a nation of impotents, and this 
is why there is so much nervous disease among children, 
infantile paralysis, deformities, idiocy and the like. You, 
who are about to marry, whose sexual organs are weak, 
and power failing you, have no right to get married. 
Look at your children ; why are there so many poor and 



HOOVERS RECIPES. 21 

half-bred children born ? Then do you wonder why, and 
who is the cause ? 

BOOTS, THE BEST FRENCH POLISH FOR. 

Mix two pints of good vinegar ; and a pint of water. 
Stir into this \ pound of broken up glue ; J pound of log- 
wood chips ; 2 drachms of powdered indigo ; 2 drachms of 
soft soap ; 2 drachms of isinglass. Put the mixture over 
the fire and let it boil 15 or 20 minutes, then strain and 
bottle it tight. When cold it is ready for use. This 
polish ought to be applied with a cloth or sponge. 

BRIGHT'S DISEASE. 

Take tincture chloride of iron 1 ounce ; acetic acid 1 
drachm. Mix and add liquor of acetate of ammonia 10 
ounces ; syrup of orange 6 ounces. Dose, take a teaspoon- 
f ul three times a day in water. 

BITTERS, ELEGANT FOR DYSPEPSIA. 

.Take 2 ounces of gentian root bruised ; orange peel 
dried 1 ounce ; cardamon seed bruised \ ounce ; diluted 
alcohol 1 quart. Macerate for 14 days, and filter through 
a cloth. This makes an elegant bitters, much used in dys- 
pepsia, and is a tonic for the digestive organs and the sys- 
tem. The dose is 1 to 2 teaspoonsful 3 times a day, a 
while after meals. 

BLOOD, TO MAKE AND HOW TO PURIFY. 

Take \ ounce sulphate of magnesia ; water 1 pint. 
Mix. Dose, 2 ounces 3 times a day, 1 hour after meals. 



22 HOOVERS RECIPES. 

BURNS, TO CURE. 

Take linseed oil ; the white of an egg, equal parts, 
batter with a spoon to a salve and grease the burnt part 4 
or 5 times a day. Best to put on with a feather. 

Breasts, Sore in a Woman When Confined. 

Take one teacup of ground flax seed ; one teacup of 
bread crumbs ; one teacup of sweet milk ; three fresh eggs; 
one tablespoon of lard. Mix together and boil on a slow fire 
a short time. Take from the fire, add one teacup of good 
whiskey ; put ;t on a rag and apply it to the sore breast 
while yet warm ; can renew it three or four times a day if 
necessary. 

Bassilicon Ointment for Chilblains. 

Rosin 5 ounces ; lard 8 ounces ; beeswax 2 ounces ; 
Melt together, then strain, and stir until cold. This is a 
stimulent for blisters, ulcers, burns, scalds, and chilblains. 
To heal wounds, add one ounce of sweet oil. 

BOTTS IN HORSES, TO CURE. 

Put 2 ounces of saleratus in a pint of brandy. Mix 
well in a bottle. This simple remedy will generally re- 
lieve a sick horse in 20 minutes. 

BALSAM OF LIFE ESSENCE. 

Aloes 1 pound; saffron 1 ounce; agaric 2 ounces, 
zedory 2 ounces ; yellow gentian root 2 ounces, theriaca 
4 ounces. Put all in 8 pounds of proof spirits for 24 hours, 
then add white sugar 2 pounds. Keep in a warm place for 



HOOVERS RECIPES. 23 

24 hours. Used to drive the urine, and for gravel and 
stone. Dose, one tablespoonful 2 to 3 times a day, taken 
before meal time. It will physic if taken too freely. 
BREAST, FOR A PAIN IN. 

Take 2 drachms salammoniac; \ pint vinegar; \ pint 
whiskey ; \ pint water ; mix well. To be applied with a 
warm rag. This is a good remedy for pains in the breast. 
BOUND OR TIGHT CHEST. 

Take tincture of tar 2 ounces; carbonate of mag- 
nesia 1 ounce; a little water; sugar 1 pound. Rub the 
tincture with the carbonate and gradually add J pint of 
water, then filter. Put water in it till it measures three 
gills, then add the sugar. Dissolve the whole with a gen- 
tle heat. Can cake 1 tablespoonful a while after meals, 3 
times a day, or more. 

BALSAM OF HONEY FOR A COUGH. 

Balsam of tulu 1 ounce; gum storax 1 drachm ; puri- 
fied opium 16 grains ; honey 4 ounces; rectified spirits of 
wine 1 pint. Digest for a week and strain. Use for colds 
and coughs. Dose, 1 to 2 teaspoons, 3 or 4 times a day. 

Blackberry Cordial for Diarrhoea or Flux. 

To 2 quarts of ripe blackberries add the following 
articles : one pound loaf sugar ; nutmeg J ounce ; cinna- 
mon | ounce ; cloves \ ounce ; allspice \ ounce. Boil all 
together for fifteen minutes. When cold, strain and add 
1 pint of fourth-proof brandy. Dose, from a teaspoonful 



24 HOO VERS RECIPES. 

to a tablespoonf ul, more or less according to the age of the 
patient, every half hour until relieved. 

Bowel Complaints, a Sure Cure For. 
Take \ ounce bruised turkey rhubarb and \ ounce of 
saleratus ; steep or simmer slowly for fifteen minutes in 1 
pint of water, strain and add one teacup of white sugar, 
and heat again to dissolve, then add sixty drops of oil of 
peppermint in an ounce of alcohol. Mix all together. 
Dose, a teaspoon to a tablespoonful every hour until 
relieved. It is an excellent remedy for diarrhoea, dysin- 
tery and is especially adapted to the bowel complaints ot 
young children. 

BLEEDING FROM THE LUNGS, TO CURE. 

Take bugle weed and make a strong tea of the leaves. 
This is one of the best remedies known for bleeding at the 
lungs. One pint a day should be drank cold for several 
days, to prevent a return of the bleeding. It is a verjr 
good addition to use portions of beth root and juniper ber- 
ries with the bugleweed. The above can be used alone. 
A teaspoon of salt is good to stop bleeding from the lungs. 
BLISTERING PLASTER. TO MAKE. 

Spanish flies, in powder, \ a pound ; beeswax 4 ounces; 
rosin 4 ounces ; lard 4 ounces. Melt wax, rosin and lard 
all together and then add the flies, stir constantly until 
cool. This is the common blistering plaster sold in shops. 
It can readily be spread on cloth without the aid of heat; 
<;an be put on cloth, leather or oil eloth. 



HOO VER'S RECIPES. 25 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES, TO MAKE. 

Mix your flour with cold water, put in a cup of 
yeast and a little salt. Bet in a warm place over night 
and if it should be sour in the morning put in a little 
saleratus. Fry the same as flapjacks. Leave enough to 
rise for the next mess. 

BREAD, GENERAL REMARKS ON. 

In order to secure good bread, it is the best economy 
to purchase the best flour, even at greater cost. Newly 
ground flour which has never been packed is much supe- 
rior to barrelled flour. Indian meal, also, is much the best 
when freshly ground; ground rice is the best if packed 
over, and then washed, and prepared like the wheac ; rye 
flour is very apt to be musty or grown. No one thing is 
of more importance in making bread than thoroughly 
kneading it. When bread is taken out of the oven, never 
set it flat on a table as it sweats the bottom and acquires a 
bad taste from the table; always take it out of the tins and 
set it up endways leaning against something. If it has a 
thick hard crust, wrap in a cloth wrung out of cold water. 
Bread made of wheat flour, when taken out of the oven, is 
unprepared for the stomach; it should go through a 
change, or ripen before being eaten. Bread will always 
taste of the air that surrounds it while ripening, hence it 
should ripen when the air is pure. It should be light, 
well baked and ripened before it is eaten. In summer 
bread should be mixed with cold water, in damp weather 



26 SO VERS BECIPES. 

the water should be tepid, and in cold weather quite warm. 
Any lady can learn to make good bread out of good flour, 
if not too careless to do so. 

BAKING YEAST TO MAKE. 

Good yeast is essential in making bread. It can either 
be made out of potatoes or hops. Boil potatoes soft, peel 
and mash them, add as much water as will reduce to the 
consistency of common y^ast. While the potatoes are 
warm put in half a teacup of molases and two tablespoons- 
f ul of yeast. Let it stand near the fire until done ferment- 
ing when it will be fit for use. Boil a handful of hops in 
2 quarts of water. Strain, and pour the liquid hot upon 
half a teacupful of wheat flour; when about milk warm, 
add one teacupful of yeast. Let it ferment, when it will 
be ready for use and may be bottled. 

BEES, HOW TO SMOKE. 
The effect of smoke on bees is wonderful. In a few 
moments they are rendered stupid and harmless; to do it 
effectually many suppose that tobacco must be used. A 
much better way is to make a roll of old cotton rags an 
inch thick ; light it at one end of the roll and blow the 
smoke into the hiye, or otherwise ; place it so as to reach 
the bees, whether inside or outside the hiye. 

BREAKFAST CAKE. 

Take rice, boiled soft, twice as much flour as rice ; a 
little corn meal and a little yeast. Mix with cold water 



HOOVER'S RECIPES. 27 

and let it rise over night. This will make a very fine bis- 
cuit for breakfast. 

BEATS OF THE PULSE. 

In health the average number of beats to a minute in 
the adult male, is about 70, in the adult female is about 
75 : infancy 100 to 120, childhood 90 to 100, in youth 75- 
to 90, in extreme old age 80 to 85. When standing the 
pulse is from 5 to 10 beats faster than when sitting, and 
from 5 to 10 beats faster in sitting than in lying. The 
heart beats more rapidly after violent exercise, from the 
fact that hundreds of muscles have violently contracted, 
forcing the blood forward through them, as if through the 
bulb of a syringe, when squeezing it. Quick and inter- 
mittent pulse indicates extreme prostration, and is called 
feeble or thread like and usually occurs previous to death. 
BLACK VARNISH FOR COAL BUCKETS. 

Asphaltum 1 pound ; lamp black 3 ounces : rosin § a 
pound ; spirits of turpentine 1 quart. Dissolve the asphal- 
tum and rosin in the turpentine, then rub or mix the 
lamp black with linseed oil, only sufficient to form a paste 
then mix with the other articles. Apply with a brush. 

BOTTS AND COLIC IN HORSES. 
Take two ounces treacle ; one pint whiskey ; \ pound 
sweet oil ; one tcaspoonful of gun-powder. Mix, and give 
all the above in a dose. In a drench do not give the horse 
over two quarts of water at the time. Can repeat the dose 
in an hour if necessarv. 



2H HOOVERS RECIPES. 

BUTTER MAKING, HOW TO. 

Let the cream rise until the milk becomes sour or 
firm. The butter will be nice and yellow. If a part 
of the cream is taken off while the milk is sweet, and 
churned with the sour cream, then look for white streaks 
in your butter. A mouldy or musty cellar is sure death to 
milk and cream, although it is hard to get some women to 
believe such to be the fact. 

Black Spot, to Make on a White Horse. 
Take unslacked lime powdered fine \ pouud ; litharge 
4 ounces. Beat and mix well together ; put into a vessel 
or jar, and put strong ley over it, then boil and skim off 
that which rises on the surface. Apply this to such parts 
of the animal as you wish to dye black ; will do well on 
white fur hides. 

Chronic Rheumatism and Gout, to Cure. 
Take of guaiacaresina, in powder, 4 ounces; alcohol 1 
pint. Macerate for 14 days and strain. This tincture is 
given in chronic rheumatism and gout, in doses of from 1 
to 3 fluid drachms, 3 or 4 times a day. It is best to be 
fcakan in sweet water or milk. 

CHOLERA, DIARRHOEA AND VOMITING. 

Take cloves, cinnamon, gum guaiacum, of each in 
powder 1 ounce ; good brandy 1 quart. Mix ; give 1 tea- 
spoon in hot sweetened water, if desired every half hour 
until the diarrhoea is arrested. In seasons of cholera every 



HOORERS RECIPES. 2S 

family ought to have this article in the house. Let it 
stand awhile before using. 

CORNS AND WARTS, TO CURE. 
Take of nitric acid, muriatic acid, oil of rosemary 
and chloroform, each 2 drachms ; alcohol 1 ounce. Mix: 
and shake. Bathe the corn or wart with warm water, then 
dry it and touch the corn with this mixture. In a minute- 
or two a portion of the corn can be removed with a com- 
mon pen knife, without cutting ; then apply more of the 
mixture, and continue doing so until it is all removed. 
Put a healing salve on, or strong vinegar. 

CEMENT TO PATCH CISTERNS. 

Take ashes 2 parts ; clay 3 parts ; sand 1 part, and mix: 
with a sufficient quantity of linseed oil ; cover well the bro- 
ken parts with this cement. 

COLIC, BILIOUS, TO CURE. 

White walnut bark, elder bark, dog-wood bark, of 
each a handful. Boil them in one gallon of water down 
to one quart. Strain, and add half a tablespoonful of 
saltpetre. Dose, a teaspoonf ul or 2, 3 or 4 times a day. 
This has given relief and also broken up the disposition to. 
bilious colic where everything else has failed. 

CHOLERA, IN HOGS, TO CURE. 

Take sulphur 2 pounds ; madder 2 pounds ; black 
ammonia J pound ; saltpetre 1 pound. Mix well and give 
a tablespoonful twice a day in milk, or anything else that 



30 HOOVERS RECIPES. 

the hog will eat. If the hog is too far gone to eat then 
•drench with the mixture in milk. European cure. 

CONSUMPTION IN THE STOMACH TO CURE. 

Take h pint vinegar ; \ pint molases ; \ pint brandy; 
'2 ounces brimstone ; 2 ounces rock candy ; \ ounce salt- 
petre. Pulverize the candy and saltpetre, then put all in a 
bottle and let macerate or soak in the sun for a few days. 
Dose, 2 ounces morning and night, 1 ounce before dinner. 
Cough on the Stomach or Lungs. 

One pint of grated horseradish ; 1 pint whiskey ; 1 
nutmeg ; one tablespoonf ul of cinnamon ; one tablespoonful 
of black pepper. Dose, one teaspoonful, morning and 
evening. 

CHOLERA AND LIVER COMPLAINTS. 

One and a half ounces of sassafras bark : 2 ounces of 
sarsaparilla root ; 1 ounce angelic root, 1 ounce white 
agaric ; 1 \ ounce galls ; 1J ounce senna leaves ; 1 ounce 
aloes socotrine ; six cents worth of English saffron. Put 
all in 1 gallon of old rye whisky ; let get warm on the stove 
for one whole day, to macerate. Dose, two ounces several 
times a day for cholera ; for liver complaints, mix it with 
half whiskey and take 2 teaspoonsf ul 3 or 4 times a day. 

COUGH SYRUP FOR THE LUNGS. 

Take 1 teacup of tar ; loaf sugar, 2 pounds ; water, 1 
quart ; put all in a tin can ; when sugar is melted, boil for 
two hours ; then let it get cold and pour the liquid off 



HOOVER'S RECIPES. 31 

without shakiDg the can ; put in a bottle. Use in tea- 
spoonful doses, particularly when cough is troublesome. 

CORROSIVE LINIMENT. 

Turpentine, 1 pint ; corrosive sublimate, 1 ounce ; 
gum camphor, 1 ounce ; mix, shake well, and let stand for 
24 hours, then add the sublimate. Must be made as fine as 
flour. This is a poison liniment, used for running sores, 
and all kinds of sores, proud flesh, and all diseases and 
complaints of horses ; and for tetter and ring worm, scald 
heat ; use with caution. Shake the bottle before using. 

CORNS AND WARTS, TO TAKE OUT. 

Nitric acid, 2 drachms ; muriatic acid, 1 drachm; blue 
vitriol, 2 drachms ; pulverize, put the three articles in a 
vial, and add an ounce of molasses, and an ounce of rain 
water, also half an ounce of pearlash ; add the ash slowly. 
After done foaming, cork the bottle for use. Pare the 
corn or wart to the quick, then put on of the fluid a few 
times a day. 

CURRANT WORMS, TO KILL. 

Take 1 pound of copperas to 6 gallons of water ; let 
melt, then sprinkle on the stalks with a watering can. If 
too strong it will kill the leaves. 

COUGHS, COLDSAND CONSUMPTION. 

Half pound elecampane root;i pound spikenard root; 
J- pound comfrey root ; i pound blood root; J pound hore- 
hound leaves ; put all together in 1 gallon of water, and 



32 HOOVERS RECIPES. 

boil down to 2 quarts ; then strain, and add If pounds of 
white sugar, and boil again until reduced to 1 J pints ; for 
adults, 1 tablespoonful 3 times a day ; doubled dose at 
night. For children, 1 teaspoonful after meals. 

CELEBRATED EYE WATER, TO MAKE. 

Take 1 ounce sulphate of iron ; \ ounce sulphate of 
zinc ; 1 pint rain water ; stir so as to melt, then filter or 
strain through several thickness of cloth, in order to purify, 
and free from the adulteration and coloring matter of the 
copperas. Wash the eyes 2 or 3 times a day. 

Colds, Chills and Erysipelas. 

Take of litharge, white lead, red bole, equal parts. 
Put linseed oil with it so as to m'ake a salve. Apply to 
the sores twice a day. 

Children's Sore Mouth Remedy. 

Borax 1 drachm ; honey 1 drachm ; myrrh 2 drachms; 
water 8 ounces ; mix, wash and rinse the mouth 3 or 4 
times a day. 

Certain Cure For the Dropsy. 

Take 2 handsf ull of parsley root and one of the tops 
thereof ; 1 handf ull grated horseradish ; 2 tablespoons of 
ground mustard ; \ ounce squills ; an ounce of juniper 
berries ; 1 gallon of hard cider ; mix all and macerate for 
24 hours in a warm place, or in the sun's heat. Dose,half 
a gill 3 times a day, before or after meals. 



HOOVERS RECIPES. 33 

CATARRH REMEDY. 

Take Scotch snuff, 1 ounce ; chloride of lime, dried 
and pulverized, 1 teaspoonful; mix and bottle tight. Use 
like snuff during the day. 

COUGH, IN A HEATING FEVER. 

Take of stick licorice 2 drachms; salamoniac 2 
drachms ; tartar emetic 2 grains ; warm water 4 ounces. 
Dose, 1 tablespoonful every 3 hours. 

Cleansing and Healing Wounds and Ulcers. 

Take of yellow bees wax 2 ounces ; white rosin 2 
ounces ; frankincense 2 ounces ; melt all of this over a low 
fire, then add of hog's lard prepared 1 pound. Strain the 
ointment while warm. Use the same as other salves are 
generally used. 

CAUSES OF THE DECAYING OF TEETH. 

The enamel covering the crowns of the teeth being 
dense and like glass, is very easily injured by contact with 
hot substances. No person of ordinary intelligence would 
ever think of pouring hot water into a glass vessel, for 
fear of breaking it ; and yet how many do sip boiling hot 
tea or coffee ; in fact almost all of our food must be red 
hot or boiling hot to suit our taste. We know that all 
teeth will be cracked, broken and destroyed if the skull is 
put into boiling water with the rest of the skeleton to 
clean them. As long as the ox and the cow feed upon the 
blades of grass upon the hillside and drink pure water from 



34 HOOVERS RECIPES. 

the silver brook, their teeth will remain sound and perfect, 
but when they feed on hot slops from the distillery, they 
soon decay. The teeth are easily injured by contact with 
acids, such as vinegar, pickles and also by contact with 
alkalies, such as soda, potash, etc. Indeed it is only in 
America that we can find hundreds of amiable and beau- 
tiful young ladies, not yet sweet sixteen, without a single 
natural tooth in the mouth, while the sign of the dentist 
multiplies in every direction. 

CLAP OR BURN, TO CURE. 
A tingling sensation at the end of the penis, which 
will swell, and looks red, and is inflamed ; then a scalding 
pain in making water. We find two kinds of this affection 
— mild and virulent. We find the virulent to be the worst 
to cure. Put 5 cents worth of lunar caustic in a 2 ounce 
vial of rain water ; let it dissolve ; shake the bottle when 
using. Wash the penis 2 or 3 times a day, for 3 or 4 days. 

CURE FOR DIABETES. 

Take a strong decoction of whortleberry leaves, 2 
ounces ; water 1 quart. Boil a while, take 1 pint every 
other day in the morning ; continue until a cure follows. 

CURE FOR SMALLPOX. 

May be cured in 3 to 4 days by using cream of tartar. 
Dissolve 6 drachms of cream of tartar in 1 pint of water 
by heat. When cold drink of this occasionally. This is 
an unfailing cure, and will not leave a mark or scar. 



HOOVERS RECIPES. 35 

CHOCOLATE CAKE, TO MAKE. 

One-half cup butter ; 2 cups of white sugar ; 1 J cups 
of sweet milk ; white of 5 eggs ; 4 cups of flour ; 3 tea- 
spoons of baking powder. Frosting, white of 2 eggs ; 2J 
cups of pulverized sugar ; \ cake of chocolate. 

CURE FOR TETTER AND RINGWORM. 

Take of blood root, bruised, 2 ounces ; add 1 pint of 
good vinegar. Let macerate for a week ; by taking 1 
ounce of the above tincture to 1 ounce of tincture of lo- 
belia ; and of tincture of stramonium seeds 1 ounce ; oil of 
cedar 1 ounce. Mix well, and you will have an infallible 
application for tetter and ring worm ; apply a few times a 
day. 

COLE'S DIURETIC DROPS. 

Take sweet spirits of nitre 2 ounces ; balsam of co- 
pabia 1 ounce ; oil of almonds 2 ounces ; spirits of turpen- 
tine 1 ounce ; mix well and add one scruple of camphor. 
Do : e, one small teaspoonful 3 to 4 times a day. Good for 
scalding of urine, and kidney diseases and self abuse. 

CHILDREN, OVER FEEDING THEM. 

How often do ignorant mothers over feed their little 
children to make them grow fast, until they become so fat 
that they can hardly see out of their eyes. If a child is 
fed in this way it is liable to become like a fat ox and is a 
burden to itself. Mothers would say "what a healthy 
child ! " Such children will hardly ever live to attain the 
age of manhood ; by far the larger number will sicken and 



36 HOOVER'S RECIPES. 

die of inflammatory disease of the digestive organs. It is to 
be found among this class of fat, healthy children those 
that die of cholera infantum and affections followed by 
effusion of water on the brain. At the same time when 
the poor child sickens or cries out under this stuffing pro- 
cess, the poor ignorant mother thinks it cries because it is 
hungry and stuffs it the more ; and, when its poor little 
stomach becomes so full that it runs over, the mother 
scoops it up with a spoon and crams it down again. The 
natural holding of a child's stomach is about as large as 
an egg. The size of a child's stomach at birth is such 
that it will not contain more than one or two tablespoons- 
ful at a time. Great care ought to be taken concerning 
children in their infantile state or else trouble will prevail. 

CURE FOR RINGWORM AND TETTER. 

Take 1 pound of fresh butter; white precipitate 1 
ounce ; spirits of turpentine \ ounce. Mix all to a salve 
and smear the sore several times a day. 

CANCER, A CURE FOR. 

Take bean leaves, and blossoms of bean stalks, gather 
them in the morning when the dew is on. Bruise them 
and press out the juice ; to 1 pound of juice put 1 pound 
of honey and cream one pint. Put in a crock or vessel 
and simmer down to a salve. Put this salve on the can- 
cer 3 times a day. 

CROUP, REMEDY FOR. 

This distressing disease may be relieved by applying 



HOOVERS RECIPES. 37 

to the throat a mixture of equal parts of champhor, spirits 
of wiue and hartshorn. Shake well together before using. 
To be used externally. 

CORNS, TO CURE. 

Boil a potato with its skin on, then take the skin off 
and put the inside of the skin on the corn. Leave it on 
for about ten hours and the corn will be nearly cured; if 
the first will not cure try it again. 

CAKE FROSTING, TO MAKE 

White of 8 eggs ; 2 pounds loaf sugar ; \ an ounce 
of white starch ; \ an ounce gumarabic. Beaten till it 
looks white and thick. Dry it in a cool oven. 

COWS' SORE TEATS, FOR. 

May be healed by rubbing with goose oil, cream, new 
milk, or as for caked bag. The bag and teats should be 
well cleansed with warm, soft water, and followed by the 
following application: 1 ounce of bees wax and 3 ounces 
of lard. Melt together, and when cooling rub in J- ounce 
of sugar of lead and one drachm of alum, finely powdered. 
Put on the sores freely when necessary. 

COLIC, A GOOD REMEDY FOR. 

Take 8, 10 or 12 drops of sulphuric balsam in a gill 
glass of wine, 2 or 3 times a day. Can be taken on sugar, 
if more convenient. 



38 HOOVERS RECIPES. 

COUGH REMEDY AND CURE. 

Take one quart of good home made molasses, put in 
a lump of alum the size of a hen's egg ; simmer on a 
slow fire in a pot until the alum is dead, and when cold 
take a tablespoonf ul as often as you feel the cough coming 
on, and relief will soon follow. 

CURE FOR CONSUMPTION. 

Elecampane root, ground fine, 1 pint ; Indian turnip 
1 pint, made fine ; honey 1 pint ; vinegar 1 pint. Put 
all in a crock and cover the crock tight with a good 
strong paper. Put over it a layer of dough ; pinch it shut 
all around, and when you are ready to put your bread 
dough in the oven then put the crock in with the bread. 
If the dough should burst open take the crock out of the 
oven and put a new dough over the crock, then put it in 
the oven again. Leave in the oven until you take the 
bread out. Take one tablespoonful three times a day be- 
fore meals. 

COLIC OR HYSTERICS OF THE MOTHER. 

Take oil succindim 1 drachm ; sal volatile 1 drachm. 
Mix ; dose, 4 grains 2 times a day, as the case may be, 
particularly in hysteria and colic. 

CHILDREN'S AND BABIES' SORE MOUTH. 
Make a strong tea or decoction of white oak bark, 
strain it, then take one teacupful of the tea and add 10 
drops of the tincture of myrrh, and wash the mouth and 
gums 2 or 3 times a day. 



HOOVERS RECIPES. 39 

CARMINATIVE POWDER. 

Take coriander seed \ ounce; ginger 1 drachm ; nut- 
meg \ drachm ; fine sugar \\ drachms. Pulverize all to a 
powder, and divide into 12 powders, one is a dose. This 
is employed in expelling flatulence arising from indigestion, 
particularly those who are hysterical and persons so 
troubled. May likewise be given in small doses to children 
in their food when troubled with griping pains. Can be 
taken 3 times a day. 

CURE FOR A SORE MOUTH. 

Take \ a handful of sage leaves, put in a pint of water, 
made hot ; simmer awhile then strain through a cloth and 
add a teaspoonful of powdered alum, and one teaspoon of 
borax. Shake well and wash or rinse the mouth 2 or 3 
times a day. 

CURE FOR ERUPTIONS ON THE FACE. 

Dissolve an ounce of borax in a quart of water, and 
apply with a fine sponge every evening before going to 
bed. This will smooth the skin when the eruption does 
not proceed from an insect working under the skin or cuti- 
cle ; if such h^ the case take flower of sulphur and rub it 
on the face after washing in the morning ; rub the face 
well with the hands, then wipe dry with a towel. 

Cholera Remedy, and to Prevent Cholera. 
Take 1 tablespoonful of black ground pepper ; 1 
tablespoon of salt ; 4 tablespoons of vinegar. Put all in 



40 HOO VERS RECIPES. 

a tumbler and fill up with hot water ; take 1 spoonful 
every half hour, or sooner if no relief comes, until relief 
is obtained. 

CHOLERA, EXTRACT OF LOGWOOD FOR. 

Logwood chips 1 pound ; boiling water 1 gallon. Mix 
well and let stand for 24 hours, then boil to 4 pints 
and strain. Is a mild astringent to cure dysentery and 
cholera infantum. A teaspoonful can be taken every 15 
or 20 minutes if no relief comes sooner. 

CASCARILLA AND ITS USE. 

This bark is taken from a tree; it is a pure bitter and 
tonic ; excellent in chronic diseases of the stomach and 
bowels and typhus fever. The dose is, in powder, from 10 
to 25 grains every 4 or 6 hours. 

CHAFING OF THE SKIN. 

If the skin becomes chafed and inflamed from friction 
or other causes, wash the parts clean, aud apply tannin 2 
drachms ; glycerine one ounce. Mix and apply with a 
soft brush or cloth once or twice a day. 

CHOLERA, A NEVER-FAILING REMEDY FOR. 

Take pulverized gum guaiacum, ground cloves, ground 
cinnamon, ^ ounce of each ; best brandy 1 quart. Dose, 
from a teaspoonful to a tablespoonful every half hour un- 
til arrested. Is good for bowel pains and all kinds of in- 
ward pains. 



ROO VERS RECIPES. 41 

CORDIAL FOR SUMMER COMPLAINTS. 

Take cloves, allspice, cinnamon, J ounce of each ; 
white oak bark 1 ounce. Bruise all and boil in 1 quart of 
water, down to half a pint ; then strain, add 4 ounces of 
white sugar, first melted, then add half as much good 
brandy as there is of the liquid. Dose, one, two or three 
teaspoonsful 3 to 6 times a day, or oftener, according to 
age and urgency of symptoms. Is an infallible cure for 
children in cases of cholera infantum, or sumuier com- 
plaints of all kinds. 

CHRONIC RHEUMATISM, TO CURE. 

Take gum guaiac 1 ounce ; poke root 1 ounce ; black- 
cohosh root 1 ounce ; rye whiskey 1 quart. Mix and let 
macerate for 10 days. This is a good article for rheuma- 
tism or chronic rheumatic trouble of the system. Dose, 
2 ounces 2 times a day. It will increase the urine. It is 
particularly for rheumatism, and worth trying. 

COLIC, A DIRECT CURE FOR. 

When colic arises from flatulence, a teaspoon of spirits 
of turpentine, taken with a teaspoon of castor oil, will im- 
mediately relieve the sufferer. Can repeat in an hour's 
time if necessary. 

COLDS, AND COUGH OR HOARSNESS. 

Take a large teaspoonful of flaxseed, 5 cents worth of 
extract of licorice, and J pound of raisins. Put these ar- 
ticles in 2 quarts of soft or rain water, and let simmer 



42 HOOVERS RECIPES, 

over a slow fire until reduced to 1 quart ; add J pound of 
sugar, then add to the 1 quart of syrup, 1 tablespoonf ul 
of vinegar. Drink a half pint or a teacup full on going 
to bed, and take a little when the cough is troublesome. 
Cough Syrup, an Excellent One. 
Take 1 pint of vinegar ; 1 teacup full of honey ; 1 
teacup full of molasses and a small handful of horehound 
leaves, bruised. Mix together, simmer over the fire for 
15 or 20 minutes, then strain and squeeze out ; then add 1 
ounce of wine of epicac, and 1 ounce of tincture of lobelia. 
Dose 1 teaspoonf ul or 2 as often as is required. 

COUGH, A FAVORITE REMEDY. 

Take acetic tincture, tincture of lobelia, tincture of 
black cohosh, and syrup of squills, of each 1 ounce. Mix 
well. Dose one teaspoonf ul several times a day or accord- 
ing to symptoms. 

Compound Spice Bitters, to Make. 
Take poplar bark 4 ounces ; bay berry bark or root 4 
ounces ; golden seal root 4 ounces ; columbo root 2 ounces; 
Indian hemp 2 ounces ; cloves 1 ounce ; race ginger 1 
ounce ; cayenne pepper h ounce ; all to be finely powdered 
and then mix, to which add as much finely powdered loaf 
sugar as the whole of the other ; and pass the whole 
through a sieve. Dose, a teaspoon ful in a little warm or 
cold water, or in wine or anything else prepared. This is 
an excellent bitters for a weak stomach, dyspepsia, loss of 



HOO VER'S RECIPES. 43 

appetite, and general debility, and wherever a tonic and 
restorative bitters is needed. It is very convenient and 
pleasant to take. Can take a teaspoonful 2 to 3 times a 
day, for 10 days. 

Cows to Calve after Night or in Day Time, if Desired, 

Milk a cow that is with calf the last time in the 
evening, and she will calve after night. Milk her in the 
morning for the last time, and she will calve in the day 
time. By letting the cow stand dry, aunty, try this for 
experience. 

Collars, if New, how to Fit on a Horse. 

It is very important to have collars to fit nicely and 
snugly to the shoulders of the horse. It enables him to> 
work with a great deal more ease, and to apply a great deal 
more strength. It prevents galling and wounding, as the 
friction is avoided. The collar should be purchased of the 
proper size ; just before putting it on the first time im- 
merse it in water, letting it remain about a minute, and 
immediately putting it on the horse, being careful to have 
the harness so adjusted to the top and bottom as to fit the 
shoulder, and then put the horse to work. The collar be- 
ing wet will adapt itself to the shoulder, and should dry on 
the horse. When taken err* it should be left in the same 
shape it occupied on the horse, and ever after that you will 
have a snug fitting collar, and no sore shoulders. Please 
try this remedy. 



44 HOOVER'S RECIPES. 

COFFEE CAKES, TO MAKE. 

Take rice that has been boiled soft ; twice as much 
flour as of rice ; a little corn meal and a little yeast. Mix 
it with cold water and let rise over night. This will make 
a very fine biscuit for an early breakfast. 

CORNS ON TOES, TO REMEDY. 

Koll a lemon until it is soft, cut a slice, bind it on the 
corn on retiring at night. Several applications may be 
necessary ; when the corn becomes white, pull it off with 
the finger nails ; never use a knife. Eaw cotton saturated 
with turpentine may be used the same way, by trying to 
be regular. 

Currant Stalks, to Raise and not to Sprout, 
Take the whole stalk up and pull them all apart, so 
as to have each stalk by itself. Take a stalk with roots on, 
then take a piece of old fat speck, pork or bacon, and rub 
the stalks well from the roots up for about eight inches. 
Do not put the stalk over four inches in the ground. The 
stalks will never run sprouts if well done, and will grow 
to a nice little tree. 

CROUP,- CERTAIN CURE FOR. 

Take goose oil and urine, equal parts. Dose, 1 tea- 
spoonful every half hour until relief ; this is a certain cure 
if taken any ways in time. 

CHILDREN, GOOD I NSTRUCTIONS FOR. 

Our children are what we make them, physically, 



HOOVER'S RECIPES. 45 

mentally and morally. If they are loving, courteous, 
kind, we make them so. If they are cruel, crabbed and 
selfish, it is our own work. Parents who live lovingly to- 
gether are more likely to beget kind dispositions in their 
children. If parents have consumption or insanity, chil- 
dren will inherit it. "As ye sow, so shall ye reap ;" and 
this is ever true. If parents are snappish, cross and incon- 
sistent, children will imitate their defects, and acquire 
their inconsistencies. The marvelous faculty of the child 
in comprehending the thought of the parent, his actions, 
and interests, should admonish all parents to first control 
themselves. Even children despise hypocrites, and deteet 
them quicker at home than elsewhere. An obedient, gen- 
erous child is the result of example, not of theories taught. 
Example is the most powerful of all teachings in the world. 
Nearly every bad habit a child acquires is by example. 
The child who is constantly nagged, or tortured, or jeered 
at, looks at the world through eyes of hatred, suspicion or 
contempt, and all the sweetness of its childish heart is 
broken. Never say, "please, George, don't," and then let 
George do as he pleases. He is the master over us, any 
how. 

COUGH SYRUP, A SPECIFIC. 

For croup or very hoarse cough of adults or older 
children : compound syrup of squills 6 drachms ; syrup of 
epicac 3 drachms ; solution of morphine 3 drachms. Mix 
one teaspoonf ul every half hour to 2 or 3 hours apart as- 
needed. 



46 HOOVERS RECIPES. 

COLIC, IN CHILDREN AND BABIES. 

Take soda 1 drachm, dissolved in an ounce of water ; 
paregoric 2 drachms ; essence of peppermint \ drachm. 
Mix ; dose, a teaspoonful every half hour. 

CEMENT, SPANISH, TO MAKE. 

Mix glycerine with fine and well dried litharge. This 
will make a cement that is capable of a large number of 
applications. All metal and nearly all solid bodies can 
be bound together with this cement. It will harden under 
water. This cement can be used in steam engines, pumps 
or in any way whatever. Do not put too much glycerine 
to the litharge, as it will not get solid. 

CONDITION POWDER, THE CHAMPION. 

Ground ginger, sulphurate of antimony, flower of 
sulphur, saltpeter, of each one pound. Mix all together. 
Dose, 1 tablespoonful once a day, given with other food 
for 8 or 10 days, if necessary. This is a valuable condi- 
tion powder. 

CONDITION POWDER, TO MAKE. 

Kosin 5 ounces ; saltpeter, black antimony, sulphur, 
saleratus and ginger, of each 1 ounce ; copperas 10 drachms, 
all to be pulverized and mixed. Dose, 1 tablespoonful 
once a day for 3 days, then skip 2 or 3 days and give 
again, and so on until you have given nine times. This 
powder should be given in the spring, and in the fall or at 
any time when the horse is not doing well. 



HOOVERS RECIPES. 47 

CRANBERRIES, HOW TO COOK. 

Wash 1 quart of cranberries, and put them in a 
covered saucepan with one pint of water. Let them sim- 
mer until each berry bursts open, then remove the cover 
and add 1 pound of sugar. Let them all boil for twenty 
minutes without the cover on. The berries must never be 
stirred from the time they are placed on the fire. Follow 
this recipe exactly aud you will have a most delicious 
preparation of cranberries. 

CORNS, A POSITIVE CURE FOR. 

Take the strongest acetic acid, to be applied night 
and in the morning on the corns. In one week's time the 
corn will be gone. Good for hard or soft corns. 
COUGH SYRUP, FRENCH. 

Take syrup of squills 2 ounces ; tartarized antimony 
8 grains ; sulphate of morphine 5 grains ; pulverized gum 
arabic 2 drachms ; honey 1 ounce ; water 1 ounce. Mix; 
Dose, for an adult, 1 small teaspoonf ul ; repeat in half an 
hour if no relief. Children in proportion to age. 

Children or Babies, how to Carry in the Arms. 
Care should be taken so as to not carry a baby habitu- 
ally on the same arm or side, as this tends to form or make 
them one sided. This is a condition that may frequently 
be observed in various children of a mother who can only 
nurse from one breast, not only the bodies but the heads 
and faces of a whole family can sometimes be drawn over 



48 HOOVERS RECIPES. 

to one side. The only way to avoid this is to change the 
position frequently. This will be a difficult thing for a 
mother to do, but this is something that a good will, and 
good attention can accomplish, to handle and carry child- 
ren or infants on one arm or side, then change to the other 
arm, so as not to have the child in the same position all 
the time, is worth taking notice of. 

Chapped Hands, Remedy, and Sore Lips. 
Take J pound honey ; J pound sal soda ; 2 drachms 
of pulverized golden seal root, with a pint of water. Let 
soak a few days ; apply often to the hands, and sore lips. 

CHOLIC, IN HORSES. 
Take spirits of turpentine 3 ounces ; tincture of 
opium 1 ounce ; mix with a half pint warm water, in a 
bottle. Give the whole on a dose, and if no relief comes 
within an hour, repeat the dose, by adding J an ounce of 
aloes, well dissolved ; it is a certain cure. 

Catamenia, or Menses, from Puberty to Turn of Life. 
There will be a regular recurring discharge from the 
womb of every healthy woman, known as the menses. 
At whatever time in life this may make its appearance for 
the first time, a woman is then said to have arrived at pu- 
berty. There are, however, numerous eases in which it 
appeared much earlier — in some at the age of nine years, 
while in others it has appeared at the third and fourth 
year, although these children grew up into healthy women. 



HO VERS RECIPES. 49 

Several cases are given in which it appeared in the infant, 
from the time of birth. It has also been observed that 
those in whom it commences early arrive at the turn of 
life at a much earlier age; early ripe, early old. The 
yoimg girl should be permitted to grow naturally into a 
young woman, so that when the time approaches for the 
first appearance of the menstrual discharge. When the 
menstrual discharge is once fully established, its recur- 
rence will be regular every 27 to 30 days, being suspended 
only, when the person is in health, during the period of 
pregnancy, and also during the time the mother is nursing 
the child. This regularity has considerable to do with fe- 
male health, and when it is interrupted in consequence of 
disease, should receive immediate attention and be speedily 
corrected. But occasional irregularities are not always 
the result of disease, but frequently produce unnecessary 
alarm. In some women this irregulaiity is constitutional, 
or natural, and when this is the case the efforts to correct 
the supposed evil are always calculated to prove injurious 
and never do any good. Discharges from the vagina may 
also occur from weakness or other causes, and when this 
takes place it is often mistaken for the menstrual discharge. 
They are apt to lead to deception in estimating the time of 
the menses. Strange and peculiar properties were ascribed 
to the menstrual fluid, equal to the most virulent poison. 
It was once credited with the influence of blighting grain, 
and preventing seeds from growing, causing fruits to fall 



50 HOO VERS RECIPES. 

from the trees by touching them with the hand, destroy- 
ing insects and producing madness in dogs besides a vari- 
ety of other more dangerous powers, which charged the poor 
woman with doing harm by spreading contagious disease. 
The old Jewish law, and the various references made in 
the Bible, show the various opinions, during the time, 
driving women beyond the palaces, as seen in the decree 
of the council of Nice, even closing the doors of the so- 
called christian's church against them. These opinions are 
still entertained to some extent among the ignorant of 
every nation. 

CHAPPED HANDS, CURE FOR. 

Take common starch, grind or pulverize to a fine pow- 
der, put it in a clean box. Set the box on a handy shelf, 
and every time in washing hands do not wipe quite dry, 
but take this fine starch and rub the hands well all over. 
The effect will be magical, and yet most comfortable in 
the healing part. 

DISTEMPER IN HORSES. 

Take flower of sulphur 2 ounces ; saltpetre 1 ounce. 
Mix well and give two tablespoonsful, 2 or 3 times a day, 
in oats or bran. Give until the symptoms are better, also 
put a lump of lard in each ear about the size of a teacup. 
This is said to be a prominent cure. 

DYSENTERY CORDIAL. 

Mix together 4 teaspoonsful of laudanum; 2 teaspoons- 
ful of tincture of rhubarb; tincture of catechu 2 teaspoons- 



HOOVERS RECIPES. 51 

ful ; tincture of camphor 2 teaspoonsful ; and 20 drops oil 
of aniseseed. Dose, 15 to 20 drops, and if necessary more, 
every 30 to 60 minutes, until relieved. 

DROPSY, TO CURE. 

Take 2 tablespoonsf ul of each of the following articles: 
sassafras, bark of the roots ; stargrass root ; sulphur ; gin- 
ger ; button snake root ; sweet fennel seed. Then add 2 
tablespoonsful of coal cinders. Put all of this in a pint 
of honey. Take a teaspoonful three times a day. Mix 
well ; to be taken a while after meals. 

DIARRHOEA REMEDY. 

Tincture of kino \ ounce ; epsom salts \ ounce ; pre. 
pared chalk \ ounce ; mix well in h pint of water. Take 
a wineglass, or 2 ounces, 3 times a day, an hour before meal 
time. 

DIARRHOEA, A REMEDY FOR. 

One teaspoon of common salt; 1 teaspoon of vinegar; 
1 tablespoon of water ; mix and drink. One dose will 
commonly give a cure. Can repeat the dose, it is harmless. 

DYSENTERY SYRUP. 

Take best turkey rhubarb 2 drachms ; leptendrin 2 
drachms ; white sugar 1 pound ; hot water 1 pint ; mix 
well ; then add essence of peppermint 1 drachm; essence of 
anise 1 drachm ; tincture of catechu 2 drachms ; mix all 
well. Dose, for dysentery, 1 teaspoonful every half hour. 



52 HOOVERS RECIPES. 

DROPSY, A CURE FOR. 

Take 3 garlic brungs out of the ground ; 1 handful of 
garden avens herbs ; 4 roots of sweet flag as long as a fin- 
ger ; 10 cents worth of saffron. Put all in 1 quart of 
Holland gin. Let macerate for 8 days. Take 1 table- 
spoonful 3 times a day ; drink nothing during the day but 
coffee. Keep it up for a few weeks. 

DIPHTHERIA, TO CURE. 

Muriated tincture of iron 1 ounce ; chlorate of potash 
4 drachms ; syrup of orange 1 pint ; mix. Take a tea- 
spoonful every 2 or 3 hours for a child over 2 or 3 years 
old. 

DYSPEPSIA MEDICINE. 

Take of inner bark of yellow poplar 4 ounces ; man- 
drake root 1 ounce ; American sarsaparilla root 1 ounce ; 
spikenard root 2 ounces ; prickly ash bark 1^ ounces ; 
blood root 1 ounce ; all to be cut fine and put in 3 quarts 
of water and boil down to 3 pints. Then strain and add \ 
pound of white sugar. When cold add \ pint of alcohol. 
Dose 1 or 2 tablespoonsf ul 3 times a day, before meal time. 

DYSPEPSIA, AN INFALLIBLE CURE. 
Take aloes \ ounce ; castor oil 2 drachms ; gentian 
root 4 drachms; saffron 1 drachm; rhubarb root 6 drachms; 
acaricus 2 drachms ; thesiac 2 drachms ; zedoariac 3 
drachms ; pulverize all fine, then put in a bottle and pour 
over it 2 quarts of good old rye whiskey. Let it digest in 



HOOVER'S RECIPES. 53 

the sun 3 or 4 days. Dose, one tablespoonful 3 times a 
day before meal time. 

Dress, an Influence on the Lungs. 

As it requires great ingenuity to tell or solve how to fit 
a long waisted dress on a short waisted body, of course 
there is no natural harmony between them ; they are at 
war with each other, and war means force. In the first 
place, a long waisted dress, to fit a short waisted body must 
be lined with something that will not give away, such as 
brown Holland or linen, and then quilted full of whale- 
bone or hickory splints, and when this long waisted dress is 
applied, these pieces of whalebone are designed to force 
down the stomach, the liver, and the large and small in- 
testines out of their natural position, so as to lengthen the 
waist, when on goes the corset with all her strength, pull- 
ing at the strings, hooks and eyes; she eats pickles, drinks 
vinegar, until she gets so weak that she can faint at the 
sight of a spider. Although the fashionable young gen- 
tlemen will run after them. If all our young men would 
say, ' 'large waists, or no wives," then the way the strings, 
hooks and eyes would fly would astonish a great many. 
And if ladies would only say, "no tobacco or no husbands" 
then farewell to the trade in tobacco. 

DO PLEASE BE ON YOUR GUARD. 

Look carefully at your expenditures. No matter what 
comes in, if more goes out, you will always be poor. The 



54 HOOVER'S RECIPES. 

art is not in making money, but in keeping it. It's little 
expenses, like mice in a barn ; when there are many, they 
make great waste ; hair by hair, heads get bald ; straw by 
straw, the pile will diminish ; and drop by drop, the rain 
comes down in the chamber. A barrel is soon empty if 
the top leaks but a drop a minute. When you mean to 
save begin with your mouth. Many thieves pass down 
the red lane. The ale jug is a great waste. In all other 
things keep within compass. Never stretch your legs far- 
ther than the blanket will reach or you will soon take cold. 
In clothes, choose suitable and lasting stuff, and not flounces 
or fineries ; to be warm is the main thing. Never mind 
looks; a fool may make money, but it needs a wise man to 
spend it ; remember, it is easier to build two chimneys, 
than to keep one going ; if you will give all to back and 
board, there is nothing left for the savings bank. Work 
when you are young, and you will have a chance to rest 
when you are old. Money comes handy in rainy days. Ig- 
norance of the law excuses no one. It is a fraud to con- 
ceal a fraud. 

DYSPEPSIA BREAD, TO MAKE. 

Three quarts unbolted wheat flour; 1 quart of soft warm 
water, but not hot ; 1 gill fresh yeast ; 1 gill of molasses, 
or none as the taste may be. Put this in the oven at the 
exact time when it is risen enough. Saleratus will not be 
necessary. 



HOOVERS RECIPES. 55 

DIARRHOEA, EUROPEAN CURE .FOR. 

Take calomel 5 grains ; gum opium 3 grains ; ipecac- 
uanha 8 grains ; mix well and divide into 8 powders, 1 to 
be given every 3 hours for a day or so. 

DYSENTERY AND FLUX REMEDY. 

Take 1 pint of fourth proof brandy, put in it 1 ounce 
of ground bavberry root, and J ounce of ground myrrh. 
Dose, take 1 tablespoonful every 2 hours. 

Diabetes, Kidney and Gravel Complaints. 

Take uvaursi leaves 1 ounce ; water 20 ounces ; boil 
to 1 pint and strain, the dose is 1 to 2 ounces 3 or 4 times 
a day. Is very astringent and a tonic. Used particularly 
in urinary organs,for kidney diseases and for gravel ulcers 
in the kidney or bladder,, and diabetes, or catarrh of the 
bladder. Dose, of the powdered leaves is 1 scruple to 1 
drachm, 3 or 4 times a day. The tea or decoction is best 
to take, particularly in phthisic. 

DEAFNESS, A CURE FOR. 

Catch an eel from the creek, remove the skin and 
intestines, hang it up before the fire and let the oil drip in 
a pan. When done dripping, bottle for use. Put 3 or 4 
drops in the ear 1 or 2 times a day. Said to be a perfect 
cure for deafness. Best to put the oil in a warm teaspoon 
to soften. 



56 IIOO VERS RECIPES. 

DYSPEPSIA LYE, A VALUABLE REMEDY. 

Take hickory ashes 1 pint ; soot from the chimney 3 
ounces ; boiling water 2 quarts ; pour the water on hot in 
a crock. Stir well and let stand over night. Then pour 
clear off and bottle. Dose, half a teacupful 3 times a day. 
If too strong weaken with water. Is a sure cure for dyspepsia. 

Death on Vermin in Plants, or Lice on Cattle. 
Put 1 gallon of boiling water on 1 pound of tobacco 
leaves. Let macerate for \ an hour, then strain and it is 
ready for use. This tea is certain death to vermin on plants 
or animals. 

DURABLE WHITEWASH, TO MAKE. 

Before putting the lime, which should be unslacked, 
into the water, saturate the water with a little salt. This 
will make a wash that cannot be rubbed off nor will it 
crack, and is very lasting. 

DEAFNESS, TO CURE. 

Obtain pure pickerel oil and drop 4 drops into the ear, 
morning and evening. Be sure to get oil that is per- 
fectly pure and you will have a cure. 

Diarrhoea and Cramp in the Stomach, Great Cure, 
Spirits of camphor, tincture of opium, tincture of 
cayenne pepper, essence peppermint, of each 2 ounces ; 
tincture of rhubarb 1 ounce. Mix well ; dose, \ a tea- 
spoonful for an adult, and 5 to 10 drops for a child ; re- 
peat the dose every 15 minutes, if the patient is not 



HOO VERS RECIPES. 57 

relieved. Bathe the bowels with strong vinegar. This is 
a valuable remedy. 

DISEASED CONDITION OF.MEN. 
It seems seldom to be mistrusted that the husband is 
at fault in an unfruitful marriage, besides the evidence re- 
vealed by the childle-s. Widowers have been known to 
marry the second or third time, and still died without ever 
having become fathers, while one of their wives and possi- 
bly each of them, has been the mother of children by a 
former husband. I believe all medical works use the word 
barrenness only in speaking of women who are incapable 
of reproduction, but this same term may be properly ap- 
plied in reference to a husband who is unable to impart to 
the wife a healthy germ. The husband may be, to all ex- 
ternal appearances, in a perfectly health}' condition, he 
may be capable of enjoying the sexual act to its fullest 
extent, and still be incapable of becoming a father. A 
wife is not unfrequently blamed by the husband and 
friends for not becoming a mother, when she is not at all 
at fault. All that she requires to become a parent is the 
introduction of a healthy sperm into the vagina where it 
may come in contact with the mouth of the womb. The 
most common cause of barrenness on the part of the male is 
debility of his procreative organs, and especially the tes- 
ticular glands, causing the production of non vital semen. 

DROPSY, PERSIAN REMEDY. 

To 1 pint of bruised mustard seed add 2 handsful of 



58 HO VERS RECIPES. 

bruised horseradish root ; 8 ounces of lignum vitae chips; 
4 ounces of Indian hemp root. Put all the ingredients in- 
to 7 quarts of hard cider and let simmer over a slow fire 
until it is reduced to 4 quarts. Strain the decoction and 
take a wine gla«s or 2 ounces 4 times a day for a few days, 
then increase the dose to a small teacupful 3 times a day, 
then use a good tonic, verbatum. 

Erysipelas, Chills, and Sore Breasts of Women. 
Take sweet oil \ a pound ; bees wax 1 pound ; sheep's 
tallow 1 pound ; saturni extract 6 ounces. Melt the tallow 
and wax on a slow fire, put the oil in and boil a minute or 
so, then let cool off, not cold. Put the extract in and 
stir it well together; is a salve, and is to be used 3 or 4 
times a day. 

DEFORMITIES IN CHILDREN, WHYSO. 
The advocates of the theory that the mental opera- 
tions of the mother will produce physical effects in the 
child, go to the Biblical account of Jacob's experience- 
and success with his streaked and striped cattle for an illus- 
tration. The marks on the cattle were produced by the 
marks on the sticks, either by the operation of a natural 
law, or a miracle. If by the former, Jacob cheated his, 
father in law by laying his speckled sticks before the best, 
cattle, which God would not have approved. And those 
who see no miracle in Jacob's stock breeding think that he 
bred one desirable quality with another, as breeders do in 



SO VERS RECIPES. 50 

these days. This is the first instance on record of a prac- 
tice which may now be regarded as the foundation of stock 
breeding. Lycurgus acted on this belief in requiring the 
death of all ill-formed children. It may be that some- 
such notion actuates unenlightened nations in destroying 
defective or diseased children, though the motive gener- 
ally ascribed is the trouble and uselessness when reared. 
The kindness of King David to Mephibooheth, the son of 
Jonathan, who, at the age of five years, was lamed in 
both feet by a fall ; David toik him to his own palace, 
gave him large possessions, and a place at his own table 
and treated him as a son. Not a few celebrated characters 
have been more or less deformed. Socrates was disfigured 
in the face ; Esop was humpbacked ; Alexander the great 
had a wry neck ; Alexander Pope was crook backed ; 
Lord Burleigh, Sir Walter Scott and Lord Byron were de- 
formed iu their feet or legs, and were lame. So was the 
celebrated American orator, Sargeant Prentiss. It has 
been ascertained that the number of deformities is at least 
one in about three thousand births. To enhance some 
point of personal attraction — staining the eyebrows and 
eyelashes, painting the faces, cutting and dressing the 
hair in fanciful forms, stooping in walking, are among 
those temporary deformities. Piercing the ears for rings, 
repressing the nature of the waist ; the female savage of 
Central Africa bores a hole in each of her ears and puts a 
stick in the hole until the sore is healed, then she will en- 



60 HOOVER'S RECIPES. 

large it by a larger stick, until the ear is stretched into a 
thin band for a six inch stick to go through. This is a 
savage trick of fashion. It must be so if fashion demands 
it, and if all are lame and crippled. 

EYES, SORE, OINTMENT FOR. 

Take tutty 6 drachms ; gum of myrrh 1 drachm ; 
arcocolea 1 drachm ; aloes 1 drachm ; white vitrol 1 drachm ; 
Make all of this in fine powder, then take of fresh butter, 
unsalted, 12 ounces ; white wax 2 ounces, and wdien these 
are melted together, by degrees put the above powders in 
and stir all together until the whole is cold, and it becomes 
an ointment. Kub the eyes with the salve a few times a 
day. 

ELIXIR FOR A WEAK STOMACH. 

Alcohol 2 pounds ; sulphuric acid 6 ounces. Put the 
acid slowly in the alcohol and stir all the time ; let digest 
in a warm place for 3 days, then add of cinnamon bark, 
bruised, 1^ ounces ; root of ginger, bruised, 1 ounce. Di- 
gest again in a close bottle for 6 days, then strain for use. 
This is a valuable medicine in weakness of the stomach. 
It may be given in doses of 10 to 30 drops several times a 
day, on sugar. In making this medicine mix slowly; it is 
dangerous to make. 

EYES, WEAKNESS, TO CURE. 
Sulphate of copper 15 grains ; camphor gum 4 
grains ; sulphate of zinc J drachm ; boiling water 4 ounces. 



HOOVER'S RECIPES. 6r 

Mix and strain, and when cold make up to 4 pints with, 
water. Bathe the eyes night and morning. 

EAR ACHE, TO CURE. 

Take 3 or 4 garlic roots, roast them and mash fine, then 
add a tablespoonful of iaudanum. Mix all together, then 
press the juice out. Drop a few drops of this in the ear,, 
warm, 3 or 4 times a day. 

EYES, SORE OR INFLAMED. 

Sugar of lead 1 drachm ; sulphate of zinc 1 drachm ; 
table salt 2 drachms ; loaf sugar 2 drachms ; rain water 
4 ounces. Let stand for 4 days, then pour off carefully. 
Bathe the eyes and inside of the eyelids with this water 2 
or 3 times a day. It is good in all cases of sore or inflamed 
eyes. 

EYES, SORE AND WEAK. 

Sulphate of zinc 3 grains ; tincture of opium 10 drops; 
water 2 ounces. To be applied 3 or 4 times a day. 

FEVER WASH LINIMENT. 

For pains in the head or elsewhere take oil of spear- 
mint 2 ounces ; oil of peppermint 1 ounce ; carbolic acid \ 
an ounce ; rain water 3 quarts ; alcohol 1 quart ; beef gall 
4 ounces. Mix all together and it is ready for use. Put 
some of this liniment in a tin, let it get warm then pour 
it on a rag and lay it on the forehead for pain in the head; 
Apply it as hot as you can wherever you may have inflam- 



£2 HOOVERS RECIPES. 

matory pains. Can take a large teaspoonf ul every 3 hours 
.during the day. This will break any fever. 

FEMALES LABORING UNDER THE WHITES. 

A very excellent tonic preparation for females to 
take who are laboring under the whites, is the following : 
Take of golden seal root 1 ounce ; black cohosh root, col- 
umbo root, ginseng, of each, in coarse powder, 1 ounce ; 
boiling water 2 pints. Mix and let stand in a covered ves- 
sel till cold, add 2 pints of good whiskey and let stand for 
5 or 6 days, frequently shaking the bottle, then sweeten 
with white sugar to suit the taste. Dose, 2 tablespoonsful 
3 or 4 times a day. 

Fistula, Pollevil and Warts, to Cure. 
Mix together 1 ounce each of nitric acid, spirits of 
turpentine, corrosive sublimate, camphor gum, oil of 
spike, castile soap and 3 gills of alcohol. Wash the 
affected parts with soap suds once a day and then apply 
the above; continue until cured. 

FEMALES THAT ARE WEAKLY. 

Take 1 quart of good whiskey, add white or plurisy 
root, blue cohosh root, black cohosh root, of each, in 
coarse powder, one tablespoonful; add balm of gilead butts, 
tamarac bark, angelica root, each, in coarse powder, 1 
tablespoonful. Mix and let it stand 10 or 12 days, fre- 
quently shaking the bottle. The dose is a tablespoonful 3 
times a day, gradually increased as the stomach can bear 



HO VERS RECIPES. 63 

it, to 1 or 2 tablespoonsful. It should be taken in sweet- 
ened water. This is a most excellent medicine. 

FOUNDER IN A HORSE. 
Make a drench of 1 tablespoonful of alum for a dose, 
give two doses one hour apart. Take a bucket of scalding 
water and put in it 1 teacupf ul of turpentine, and 1 pint of 
salt Bathe the horse's legs well from the knees down ; if 
lie flinches, don't go s) high up. This will cure the worst 
case of founder. 

Fevers of all Kinds in General. 

Take carbonate of ammonia 2 drachms; alum 1 drachm; 
capsicum \ a drachm ; foreign gentian \ a drachm ; col- 
umbo root \ a drachm ; prussiate of iron \ a drachm, all 
to be pulverized. Mix by putting all into a bottle, add- 
ing cold water 4 ounces. Dose, 1 teaspoonful for a grown 
person every 2 hours, in common cases of fever ; it may 
be sweetened if preferred. Shake the bottle well before 
using, and keep the bottle well corked. Good for cold 
chill followed by a hot skin or a quick pulse, with a weak 
feeling of distress, also loss of appetite, thirst, restlessness; 
this is a speedy and effectual cure for all forms of fever, 
and all that is required is to have sufficient confidence in 
the course of treatment. To be used from 3 to 5, and in 
extreme cases 7 days as directed. 

FELONS, TO CURE. 

Take 1 tablespoonful of red lead, and 1 tablespoonful 



64 HOOVERS RECIPES. 

of castile soap, and mix with as much lye as will make it 
soft enough to spread like a salve. Apply it on the first 
appearance of the felon, and it will effect a cure. 

FELON, AN EFFECTUAL CURE FOR. 

Bathe the s >re part affected in strong lye, then take 
the yelk of 1 egg; 6 drops of spirits of turpentine ; a few 
beet leaves cut fine ; a small quantity of hard soap ; 1 tea- 
spoonful of snuff. Add 1 tablespoonful of burnt salt, and 
1 tablespoonful of corn meal. Mix all together ; put on 
the sore. It will never fail if put on in time. 

FEMALE DOCTORS' SHREWDNESS. 

There is a great deal of talk now-a-days as to the fit- 
ness of women for the profession of medicine. Is the ser- 
ious consideration of this question intended to dignify 
and inflate the hordes of masculine snottys ? Through our 
intelligence of woman, for all who gravely want to use 
the following infallible prescription : Take of common 
sense 3 grains; justice 4 drachms ; mind your ©wn busi- 
ness 5 ounces. Mix and give 6 gtt 3 times a day. Pov- 
erty and shame attend those who refuse instructions. 

FARMERS' MAXIMS TO FOLLOW. 

When you wake up do not roll over, but roll out; it 
will give you time to ditch all your sloughs, break them, 
harrow them and sow them ; make your fencing high, 
strong and tight, so that it will keep the cattle and pigs 
out. If you have brush make your lots secure, and keep 



HO VERS RECIPES. 65 

your hogs from the cattle, for if the corn is kept clean 
they will eat it better than if it is not clean. Be sure to 
get your hands to bed by good time, and they will rise 
more early by force of circumstances. Pay a hand, if he is 
a poor hand, all you promise him, if he is a good hand 
pay him a little more. It will encourage him still better. 
Always feed your hands as well as you do yourself, for the 
laboring men are the bone and sinew of the land, and 
ought to be well treated. When rainy or bad weather 
comes, so that you cannot work out of doors, cut, split and 
haul your wood, make your racks, fix the fence or any 
gate that is off its hinges, or weatherboard your barn 
where the wind has blown the siding off, or patch the roof 
of your barn or house before winter breaks in on you. 
While we are not ready to lay by, we think it is well wor- 
thy to take notice of these lines. We are apt to show our 
examples. Never sign a writing until you have read it. 
Guilt is always jealous. 

FARMS, HOW TO MAKE THEM POOR. 

By keeping no account of home operations, paying no 
attention to the maxim, "a stitch in time saves nine." In 
regard to the saving of grain and planting seed at the proper 
time and season, leaving the reapers, plows, cultiva- 
tors, etc., uncovered in the rain, and heat of the sun. 
More money is lost in this way than what most people are 
willing to believe. Permitting broken implements to be 
scattered over the farm until they are rotten ; attending 



m HOO VERS RECIPES. 

auction sales and purchasing all kinds of trumpery, be- 
cause, in the name of the vender, the articles are very 
cheap ; allowing fences to go unrepaired until strange cat- 
tle are found grazing in your fields, and bruising the fruit 
trees ; planting fruit trees with the expectations of having 
fruit without giving the trees half the attention required to 
make them produce ; have your grain threshed in the field 
and burn the straw when it is in your way. This is a good 
way to make a farmer aud a farm poor. Pry not into the 
affairs of others. Pure religion is the foundation of peace, 
and will not quarrel with anyone. 

FEMALE EXTERNAL ORGANS, A SECRET. 

Mons veneris is the pubic, formed by a thick layer of 
fatty cellular substance, which rises and cushions up the 
skin. In early life it is small, but at puberty it grows into 
greater surface, and has many large glands, and is covered 
with crisp hair, which is generally regarded by parents as 
the sign of womanhood, though they cannot be recognized 
as a proof of that condition. On some females the growth 
is very limited, while on others it is troublesome. It is 
never found on women who are incapable of reproduction, 
in consequence of having no ovaries. The labia or lips are 
the two parallels, rounded, bounding the rims or fissure of 
the vulva. They are known by the several names of labia, 
budendi, and also, from their slight resemblance to wings, 
they are distinguished as the right and left labium or lips. 
They seem to be the mons veneris continued downward 



HOOVERS RECIPES. 67 

and latterally, until meeting below, they complete the 
vulva. In front they are full and prominent, becoming 
thinner as they pass to the posterior, and unite with the 
perineum. Sometimes one is larger than the other. Their 
points of union above and below are called the frouchette 
or fork. The opening or fissure between them, the fossa 
magna vulvae. The structure of the labia is similar to 
that of the mons veneris, being formed of common integu- 
ment externally, and rendered full and round by fatty sub- 
stance. Their outer surfaces are covered with scattered 
crisp hair, and their inner surfaces, being in contact with 
each other and lined by a membrane of great sensibility 
for defense, and are, therefore, amply supplied with mucus, 
which serves to keep them smooth and moist, and exudes 
a peculiar odor. From inattention to cleanliness and other 
causes, being in contact, they have been known to grow 
together, requiring an operation to separate them. Preg- 
nacy generally makes some change upon their form and 
color, being of a pink in virgins and violet or brown after 
pregnancy. Childbirth will also effect a change upon them; 
they permit a distension during the passage of the child. 
They will remain larger and more lax after being much 
dilated. The fold known as the frouchette is lacerated and 
obliterated in the first childbirth, so that a general dis- 
figurement of the labia is an almost universal result of the 
habits and bad practices attending an evil life. The 
urthea of the female is wide, and its only use is to serve 



6$ HOOVERS RECIPES. 

as a passage for the urine. It is an inch and a half to two 
inches long. Its direction is nearly straight, or slightly 
bending, so as to admit a catheter of the size of an ordi- 
nary goose quill, though capable of greater distension. 

FECUNDATION OR IMPREGNATION. 

In the use of the sexual organs the main object 
designed by nature was procreation ; to bring into contact 
the two principals — male and female. This is the order of 
nature. For many centuries the actual process of impreg- 
nation may be said to have been a mystery. Men of science 
in every section of the globe exercised their utmost skill, 
and experimented with animals and fowls,and various in- 
sects, until finally two theories were accepted, the first of 
which asserted that the male semen, after its ejection into 
the female vagina, was drawn into the womb by a suction, 
and from thence, by a similar process, and by way of the 
oviducts, reached the ovaries, and there fecundated the 
egg. By this theory the semen of the male came to be re- 
garded simply as the vehicle of the seminal aura, but the 
theories and their agency in the process of fecundation 
were untrue, and even went so far as to contend that the 
very existence of these germs was due to the semen. 
Observations and experiments were going on for years un- 
der the most favorable circumstances, and aided by some 
remarkable improvements in the appliances of science, and 
have worked an entire revolution in the opinions of great 
men regarding the phenomenon of impregnation, and con- 



HOOVERS RECIPES. 69 

ception. This change was mainly effected by the persis- 
tent inquiry of French physicians ; therefore, it may now 
be stated that the generally accepted and popular theory in 
reference to the process of fecundation is in substance as 
follows : generation essentially is the same in all beings, 
there being no exceptions, as in all females eggs exist 
before, and are independent of conception, just the same 
as the male semen does never impregnate in the ovary or 
organ that will produce it. The egg must always have a 
certain feeling before it can be impregnated, aud must 
have left the organ through and by which it was produced, 
and in all animals the eggs are emitted at regular and cer- 
tain periods and are peculiar to each other, for there will 
also occur a special excitement through the female organs. 
Neither can impregnation take place unless the semen is 
present at the same time to meet the perfect egg. A 
thorough advice may thus be given: Let association be 
discontinued for about ten days prior to the menstrual dis- 
charge, and while it continues, then let it be resumed im- 
mediately after the menses have ceased. The cells are al- 
ways even in number and if otherwise the result will be an 
imperfect being, if not an absolute idiot. 

TOPES' FEVER POWDERS, TO MAKE. 
Take salprunella 6 drachms ; gum opium 1 scruple ; 
ipacacuanha 1 scruple. All to be pulverized and mixed. 
Dose, 5, 10 or 12 grains every 2 or 3 hours, until a moist 
sweat arises, then stop. Is good in all kinds of fevers. 



70 HOOVERS RECIPES. 

FOR THE WHITES OF WOMEN. 

Take sixteen drops of the oil of spike, 1 or 2 times a 
day ; keep on 3 or 4 days, and a cure will be accomplished. 

FAVORITE MAGIC OIL. 

Take alcohol 2 quarts ; oil origanum 2 ounces ; tinct- 
ure capsicum 1 ounce ; chloroform 1 ounce ; oil of hem- 
lock 1 ounce ; oil of rosemary |- ounce ; oil of sassafras J 
ounce ; sulphuric ether \ ounce ; mixed. Is a good rem- 
edy for all acute pains, toothache, rheumatism, frozen feet, 
chilblains, etc. 

Gravel, Kidney and Urine Complaints, 
Uva ursi or bearberry leaves are astringent, and a 
tonic, and are a specific direction to the urinary organs, 
for the complaints of which they are chiefly used. They 
alter the color of the urine, and have a direct influence on 
the kidneys and urinary passages. In gravel and ulcera- 
tion of the kidneys and urinary passages, diabetes, catarrh 
of the bladder, incontinence of urine, gleet, the dose of 
the powder is from a scruple to a drachm, to be taken 3 or 
4 times a day. The tea or decoction is usually preferred, 
as follows : take of uva ursi leaves 1 ounce ; water 20 
ounces ; boil down to 1 pint, and strain ; the dose is from 
1 to 2 fluid ounces, 3 or 4 times a day. 

GERMAN INFLAMMATORY LINIMENT. 

Spirits of hartshorn 2 ounces ; alcohol 2 ounces; salt- 
water of common house salt, ordinarily strong, 2 ounces ; 



HOOVERS RECIPES. 71 

gum camphor 2 ounces ; mix all together, and it is ready 
for use. This is a French liniment for both man and beast. 

GRAVEL AND KIDNEY COMPLAINTS. 

Oil of origanum 1 ounce; oil of hemlock \ ounce ; oil 
of sassafrass \ ounce ; oil of anise 1 ounce ; alcohol 1 pint. 
Mix ; dose, 1 teaspoonful 3 times a day on sugar. This 
will soon give relief when constant weakness is felt across 
the small of the back, as well as gravelly affections caus- 
ing pains about the kidneys. 

GRAVEL, TO CURE. 

Cut the top of a radish off. While yet in the ground 
hollow them out, cover up over night, and the radish will 
get full of juice over night ; then draw the juice out with 
a syringe, take a 4 ounce bottle full and put in 4 ounces 
of wintergreen. Mix all well, and let stand tor 6 or 7 
hours, then drink of this several times a day until cured. 

GENTLE PHYSIC, TO MAKE. 

Take epsom salts 2 ounces ; Alexander senna J ounce; 
anise seed J ounce ; fennel seed ^ ounce. Scald in 1 pint 
of water, let stand for 10 minutes, and take 3 or 4 table- 
spoonsful at a time. Repeat the dose every 1 or 2 hours 
until the bowels begin to move. This is a splendid physic. 

GRAVEL, A SURE CURE FOR. 

Take of clean dung of tame doves or pigeons a good 
handful. Put it in a pint of good vinegar, let it stand to 
soak for 7 days, and take about 2 tablespoonsf ul evening 



72 HOO VERS RECIPES. 

and morning, for a dose. This will melt the gravel stones 
so that they will pass away with the urine. This remedy 
is worth using. Try it. 

GRAVEL, A SOVEREIGN REMEDY FOR. 

Take a handful of the bark of the roots of a sweet 
apple tree ; put 3 pints of water on, boil to 1 quart, or a 
strong decoction, then add to this J pound of good Holland 
gin. Dose, 2 ounces 3 times a day, before meal time. 

GINGER BEER OR POP. 

Take white sugar 2 pounds ; cream of tartar 2 ounces; 
bruised ginger root 2 ounces ; add 2 gallons of boiling wa- 
ter and a teacup of hop yeast. Let stand for 24 hours, 
then bottle for use. 

GIVING A VIEW OF THE HEART. 

The heart is situated behind the breast bone. It is so 
inclined that its base or upper extremity is directed towards 
the right shoulder, and its lower extremity toward the left 
side. The heart is surrounded by a thick, strong sack, 
called the heart case, which serves to attach the heart to 
the spine, and to keep the heart to its proper place in the 
cavity of the chest. During the progress of rheumatic 
fever, when neglected, or improperly treated, this disease 
may result in the effusion of water into the cavity of the 
heart case, causing dropsy of the heart case. The human 
heart is conical in shape, measuring about 6 inches in 
length, and 4 inches iu breadth, and weighs about 12 



HOO VERS RECIPES. 73 

ounces. It is somewhat larger in the male than in the fe- 
male, but the female heart is said to make up in quality 
all that it lacks in quantity, being so much sweeter in wo- 
men than in men. The right side of the heart contains 
two cavities, called the right auricle, and right ventricle. 
The left side of the heart also contains two cavities, called 
the left auricle and left ventricle. There is quite a pecu- 
liarity in the heart, if well understood. 

GIVING THE ACTION OF THE HUMAN HEART. 

The human heart beats about 70 times a minute, 4,200 
times in an hour, and more than 100,000 times in 24 hours. 
Every time the heart beats, 2 ounces of blood pass through 
its wonderful chambers, 140 ounces each minute, more 
than 2 hogsheads of blood every hour and more than 8 
tons of blood every 24 hours. The human heart is esti- 
mated to draw with a force equal to about 13 pounds, and 
to circulate the blood with such rapidity that it all runs 
through the heart as often as once in 2h minutes. The 
whole quantity of blood in the human body is equal to 
about 1-5 of its weight or 28 pounds in a person weighing 
140 pounds. The frequent action of the heart will grad- 
ually diminish from the commencement to the end of life. 
Right after birth it ranges from 140 to 130. In old age, 
65 to 50. Its action is also increased after a meal, and by 
rising from a sitting to a standing position. The time of 
day also effects it ; the pulse is more frequent in the morn- 



74 HO VERS RECIPES. 

ing and becomes gradually slower as the day advances 
during life time. 

GREEN HEALING SALVE. 

Take rosin 1 ounce ; bees wax I ounce ; mutton tal- 
low 4 ounces ; melt altogether and stir in 1 drachm of 
pulverized verdigris. Stir well. Useful for old sores, ul- 
cers, cancers, scrofula sores, cuts and wounds. This is one 
of the best salves known. 

GERMAN COUGH TINCTURE. 

Tincture of black cohosh, tincture of lobelia, tincture 
of balsam of tulu, good cider vinegar, tincture of blood 
root, of each 1 ounce ; -J ounce of number six. Mix; dose, 
1 teaspoonf ul 3 to 6 times a day. This is one of the best 
cough remedies that I have ever used. 1 or 2 ounces of 
simple syrup may be added to the above quantity, also \ 
ounce of laudanum may be added if desired. 

GALLS ON HORSES, TO CURE. 

During the hot season, while horses are kept at heavy 
work, their breasts are very liable to become sore, and 
many of them are the result of poorly fitting collars. See 
to this matter at once, and prevent the trouble if possible. 
Where the breast has become galled, wash frequently with 
some astringent solution, such as alum water, or a strong 
tea of white oak bark. Arnica is excellent for galls and 
should be applied at night, after the team has finished work, 
and be well rubbed in with the hand. 



HOOVER'S RECIPES. 75 

GONORRHOEA, A POSITIVE CURE FOR. 

Liquid of potassa, liquid of bitter apple, spirits of 
sweet nitre, balsam of copabia, of each 1 ounce ; best gum 
arabic 2 drachms. For use mix with peppermint water, 
take | teaspoonf ul 3 times a day, half an hour before meal 
time. Is a certain cure in 10 days, if well attended to. 

GLASSWARE, TO KEEP FROM BREAKING. 

Put your glass dishes, lamps, tumblers and all other 
glass articles into a boiler or kettle, cover them all over 
with cold water, and bring it to a boil for a few minutes ; 
then set the kettle aside, and keep it covered close. When 
the water is cold, take the glass out. Boiling will season 
the glass, so as to stand more heat before breaking. Pie 
plates can be seasoned the same way by the above process. 

HAIR DYE, TO MAKE. 
Take 1 drachm lac sulphur ; sugar lead 1 drachm ; 
bay rum 2 ounces; glycerine 2 ounces ; spirits of ammonia 
1 drachm ; 5 cents worth oil of bergamot, Wet the hair 
once a week, or more often if necessary. 

HEAVES IN HORSES, TO CURE. 

Take a decoction of smartweed, 1 quart a day for 8 or 
10 days. Mix it in bran and oats ; divide the quart in 3 
meals, morning, noon and evening. Is well spoken of. 

HICCOUGH, TO CURE. 

Take a lump of sugar saturated with vinegar. Eat 



76 HOOVERS RECIPES. 

plenty of it, and a cure will follow. Home made sugar is 

best, if it can be had. 

Hemorrhages from the Lungs or Flooding in Child- 
birth. 

Sugar of lead 10 grains ; ergot of rye 10 grains; gum 
opium 3 grains ; epicac 1 grain. All to be pulverized and 
well mixed. Dose, 10 to 12 grains, to be given in a little 
honey or molasses. In very bad cases, after child birth, it 
can be given every half hour, or increase the dose to 15 or 
18 grains, particularly in profuse cases. For bleeding from 
the lungs it can be taken 3 or 4 times a day as above stated. 
HYSTERICS IN WOMEN. 

Take laudanum 1 ounce; tincture of valerian 2 ounces; 
sulphuric ether 2 ounces. Mix all together. Dose, 20 
drops or less according to circumstances, 1 or^ hour apart. 
HOGS OR SWINE, A TREATISE ON. 

From the earliest history of swine, they have been re- 
garded as more subject to scrofula than any other animal. 
It is, with few exceptions, the most indigestible food that 
can be taken into the stomach. Again, pork is charged 
with being wormy. It killed a great many persons in 
Europe and not a few in other countries, including our 
own. It has been contended that the tape worm only 
troubles those who eat pork, and that the Hebrews, who 
do not eat the flesh of swine, are never troubled with these 
parasites. The fact has been established beyond contra- 
diction, that an exclusively pork diet will produce tape 



HOOVER'S RECIPES. 77 

worm, and what else ? Saltrheum ; and my neighbors 
would laugh at me if they knew I was applying to a phys- 
ician, but I am troubled with catarrh. Another has piles; 
another worms. There are pork eaters who have no ar> 
parent disease, whatever ; although the scrofulous impur- 
ities of their diet find lodgment. They remain latent in 
their system, and are transmitted to their children, without 
manifesting their presence in the parent stock, if well un- 
derstood. 

HYSTERIC AND RHEUMATIC TINCTURE. 
Take aqua ammonia 1 ounce ; gum guiacum 1 ounce; 
gum camphor h ounce ; diluted alcohol 1 quart. Macerate 
for 6 days at a warm place. Dose, 30, 40, or 50 drops, 3, 
or 4 times a day. 

HOARSENESS, A REMEDY FOR. 

Take 1 pint of vinegar and put 4 ounces of grated 
horseradish in it. Let it stand over night, then add J 
pint of honey, and bring it to a boiling point. Strain and 
squeeze out the juice. Dose, 1 or 2 teaspoonsful several 
times a day. Is good for hoarseness, loss of voice and all 
ordinary coughs, if well used. 

HEART DISEASE, REMEDY. 

Take bromide of potash 4 drachms ; tincture of digi- 
talis 2 drachms ; comp. tincture of cinchona 4 ounces. Mix 
well ; take a teaspoonful 3 or 4 times a day, in water, for 
palpitation of the heart. 



78 HOOVERS RECIPES. 

HIP DISEASE ANDSWEANY. 

To one quart of alcohol, put 2 ounces of gum cam- 
phor ; pulverized cloves 1 ounce ; six heads of Spanish 
pepper ; a handful of salt. Let this stand in a bottle for 
•2 days in a warm place. Wash the sore limbs 2 or 3 times 
a day, and for pains in the limbs. 

HEALING PLASTER, A PARTICULAR ONE. 

Take storax 1 ounce ; red lead 7 drachms; gum cam- 
phor 2 drachms ; sweet oil 4 ounces. Put all in a crock, 
and boil till it is thick enough to be used as a common plas- 
ter. This plaster is good for all kinds of rheumatic pains. 
Is good for sore eyes, and pains in the head. When put 
on the temple or side of the head, lay it on the painful 
part. For carbuncles, and old and fresh sores, torn, cut 
or bruised wounds, and burns or scalds, wipe burned or 
.scalded parts with a rag before applying the plaster. Is a 
useful remedy. 

HEARING, HOW TO IMPROVE. 

Hunt a nice clean hazlenut stalk, cut it off, lay it in 
the fire with one end out and water will run out at the 
other end. Put one drop of this in the ear about once a 
day. 

HEART TREMBLING, TO CURE. 

Take a drachm of cardaman seeds in a few ounces of 
wine. Pulverize the seeds first; do not use the shells, only 
.the seeds. To ba taken 2 or 3 time3 a day if necessary. i 



HOOVER'S RECIPES. 79 

HEALING PLASTER, POOR MAN'S. 
Take yellow wax 1 ounce; tar 3 ounces; rosin 3 ounces. 
To be melted together and spread on lint, muslin or oil 
cloth. Use as other plasters are generally used. 

HEALING SALVE, RUSSIAN. 

Take yellow wax 2 ounces ; sweet oil 2 ounces ; melt 

slowly, stirring all the time. When getting cold stir in it 

1 teaspoonf ul of glycerine. Is good for all kinds of wounds 

or sores, recent or old standing complaints. Is a useful 

salve. 

HEEL BALL, TO MAKE. 

Take mutton tallow 4 ounces; bees wax 1 ounce; sweet 
oil 1 ounce ; oil of turpentine J ounce. Melt and add gum 
arabic 1 ounce ; lamp black J ounce. Used for blacking 
shoes or boots. Is a nice shoe polish. 

HEALING SALVE, COMMON BLACK. 

Take rosin and bees wax, of each 2 ounces ; sweet oil 
8 ounces. Melt together, stirring until cold. This is a 
good healing salve for ordinary or common sores. To the 
above can slowly be added while near the boiling point, 4 
ounces of red lead, stirring all the time. When nearly 
cold add 2 ounces of pulverized camphor, stirring well. 
This is a good healing salve. 

HANDKERCHIEF PERFUME, TO MAKE. 

Take ambergris 1 drachm ; civet 1 drachm ; oil of 
lavender 2 drachms ; oil of bergamot 2 drachms ; camphor 



80 HOOVERS RECIPES. 

gum 3 drachms ; spirits of wine \ a pint. Macerate for 
ten days, then strain, and it is ready for use. 

HEMERRHOIDS OR PILES, TO CURE. 

The article to which 1 would wish to draw your atten- 
tention is the oil of erigron canadensis, which I regard as 
a specific in piles, either external or internal. My method 
of using the remedy is to give 6 to 12 drops morning and 
evening in a little milk, after having first given some mild 
physic, such as castor oil, to move the bowels freely. The 
piles are then to be annointed with the oil when coming 
down. For diet I direct unbolted wheat bread for the 
principal food, until the cure is affected. Can mix the oil 
with a teaspoon of: castor oil to keep the bowels open. 
The oil of erigron canadensis is an astringent used in flood- 
ing, four to six drops on sugar. It is best in piles to take 
the oil on sugar. Take the castor oil first and use regu- 
lar and a cure will be effected. 

HORSES FORMING TUMOR, TO CURE. 

Rub thoroughly with strong brine or a solution of sal- 
ammoniac, dissolved in 8 times its weight of water. If the 
tumor comes to a head open it near the bottom with a lance; 
or place a seton cord in it so as to admit the escape of the 
pus. 

HOGS, WHEN IMPORTED. 

The hog is not a native of this continent ; the first 
swine were brought from Spain, by Columbus, in 1493* 



HOO VERS RECIPES. 81 

Sows generally carry their young 112 days; sometimes 
overruns a day or two, but seldom falls short of that time 
from date of service. Useful to remember by hog raisers- 
House Plants, to Keep from Freezing. 
Take an old stout blanket or quilt and spread it 01* 
the floor; Set the plants close in the center and set two- 
chairs or a stand over the plants, then bring the quilt up 
and tie or pin together. Sensitive plants may first be cov- 
ered with paper. 

HORSE CRIB BITING, TO CURE. 
It is supposed that there is no remedy for a wind" 
sucking horse, but this is only a habit and may be cured 
by nailing sheep hides with the wool on wherever the 
horse may have a chance to take hold of while in tha 
stable. 

HUMAN LIFE, ORIGIN OF IT. 
How few young men or women, when about to form* 
partners for life, stop to inquire if the person is a cultiva- 
ted companion, that is, noble, mentally and morally qualifi- 
ed, such as they would desire to see manifested in their 
children. In fact, there is less exercise of reason, relig- 
ion or common sense in the choice of husbands- and wives> 
than in almost any other act of life. Young ladies read 
novels, then sigh and declare that love goes when it is 
sent, and that matches are made in heaven. Now, the? 
fact is, most matches are made anywhere but in heaven. 



'82 HOO VERS RECIPES. 

they are not even made in accordance with reason or com- 
mon sense. What, indeed, are the leading questions which 
the young men or women of to-day ask, when selecting 
partners for life ? Is it whether they have sound healthy 
bodies ? No, the leading question will be, how much 
money has his or her papa ? Not long since, while travel- 
ing, I met a la ly with whom I am acquainted; I said, 
"Why, I hear that you are married." "Yes, I am mar- 
ried," said the lady. "Do tell me whom you married?" 
-'Oh! well," says she; "I have married four thousand 
dollars, and hell.'* "What is his name ? " "Oh ! I for- 
got." John Adams married a woman of strong common 
sense, and of good culture in her days, and she became 
.the mother of John Quincy Adams. 

Head, Brain and Nerve Diseases, Why So. 
Many a disease of the brain and' nerves is produced 
by the habitual use of nervous stimulants, such as tea, 
coffee and tobacco. It is a general and well understood 
fact that all artificial stimulants are followed by reaction 
and debility. Coffee causes a determination of blood to 
the head, producing virtigo, diziness, headache, while 
tea causes great irritability of the nerves of the heart, 
violent palpitations when used habitually and in consider- 
able quantities. They derange digestion and cause a great 
amount of nervous weakness, and general debility, yet 
the use of tobacco, owing perhaps to its more attractive 
and fascinating effects, is on the increase, and threatens 



HOOVERS RECIPES. 83 

more than anything else to undermine the health and de- 
stroy the constitution of the American people. A few drops 
of the dark oily matter easily obtained from an old pipe, 
when placed on the end of a dog's tongue, is almost in- 
stant death. If these are facts, why is it that so many 
can use tobacco without destroying life almost instantly ? 
In answer to this it may be said that only a small quantity 
at a time is taken into the system. Nature has given the 
human being great powers of endurance, and under the 
law of toleration we are enabled to gradually increase the 
the dose of tobacco day by day, until at last we become 
accomplished chewers, and can chew a plug a day. We 
are told by a surgeon general of the United States Army, 
who accompanied General Scott to Mexico, that he often 
observed that when the wolves and buzzards came upon 
the battle fields, to devour the slain, they would not dis- 
turb the bodies of those who had chewed or smoked tobac- 
co until they had consumed all the fresh ones among them, 
and yet there are thousands of young chewers and smokers 
who expect that refined young ladies, or rather angels, as 
they sometimes call them, will be willing to love and 
cherish them all their lives, when even buzzards will not 
devour them. After minute examination by dissection, it 
will be found that in most of the cases of sudden death, 
by what is called heart disease, this organ is found to be 
perfectly healthy and sound in every respect, the person 
dying of paralysis of the eighth pair of nerves, which are 



84 HOOVERS RECIPES. 

sent from the brain to the heart, stomach and lungs, caused 
by the habitual use of this terrible poison. Eight out of 
every ten users of tobacco will die with heart disease, es- 
pecially in old age. 

HORSES HAVING COLIC. 

A horse will often lie down, suddenly want to rise 
again with a sudden spring, will frequently want to strike 
his side or belly with his hind feet, will stamp frequently 
with his fore feet, and will refuse most all kinds of feed. 
The following is, I think, one of the never-failing cures 
in colic : take aromatic spirits of ammonia \ ounce ; laud- 
anum \h ounces ; mix with 1 pint of water and drench the 
horse ; give a second dose in half an hour's time if not re- 
lieved any sooner. 

HAIR OF LITTLE GIRLS, HOW INJURED. 

There is a great mistake in platting the hair of chil- 
dren under twelve years old. The fashion of platting will 
strain the roots of the hair, by pulling the hair so tight, 
and will deprive the hair of its nutriment, and check the 
growth. So we learn that the hair of girls should be cut 
rather short, and allowed to curl freely. When about 
twelve years old the hair should be twisted into a coil, yet 
not too tight, neither should the hair be tied with a thin 
thread, but take a piece of ribbon. Take notice, there is 
something to learn in the above. 



HOOVERS RECIPES. 85 

HOW TO SET YOUR BEDSTEADS. 

All sleeping rooms ought always to be so arranged, if 
possible, as to allow the head of the sleepers to be towards 
the north. Quite often do we, in cases of sickness, see 
that a person will find it rather impossible to obtain rest by 
having the head in any other direction, while often a cure 
is retarded a long time. People in building should always 
bear this in mind, so as to have the head to the north while 
in bed, not only when down sick, but at all times. 

HAIR, TO KEEP FROM TURNING GRAY. 
A remedy to keep the hair from falling off, and to 
keep its natural color, is to dissolve 2 pounds of honey ; a 
handful of rosemary; and 10 handsful of tendrils of grape 
vines, infused in a gallon of new milk ; about 2 quarts of 
milk will be obtained from this, ready to apply to the hair 
frequently. 

HAMS, WHEN SMOKED, TO KEEP. 
Take a flour or paper sack, put the ham into the sack, 
and fill all around the ham with fine or chopped hay, about 
two inches thick. This will keep the grease from getting 
in contact with the sack and will keep insects from reach- 
ing the ham. Let hang in the smoke house or some other 
dry place, and w T ill keep well all summer. 

HOW TO KEEP LAMPS FROM SMOKING. 

Put the wick in strong vinegar, let stand or soak over 
night, then let get dry before using. The wick will then 



86 HOOVER'S RECIPES. 

burn more pleasantly, and will not have the house full of 
smoke all the time. 

HONEY BALSAM, TO MAKE, 
Take purified opium 14 grains ; balsam of tulu 14 
drachms ; honey 4 ounces ; spirits of wine 1 pint. Mix, 
and let stand for a week. Shake the bottle a few times a 
day, then strain. This balsam is of much use in colds, 
coughs, and feverish symptoms. Dose, from 1 to 3 tea- 
spoonsful when much coughing. 

HOW TO MANAGE A FAINTING PERSON. 

When a person faints, lay him down on his back, loose 
the clothing, push the crowd away, in order to allow pure 
air to reach the patient, and let him alone. Dashing wa- 
ter on a fainting person is a great wrong. In case of faint- 
ing we learn that the heart does not send the necessary 
amount of blood to the brain. If a person stands erect, 
then the blood will have to be thrown up hill, but when 
lying down less power is wanted to pump the blood to the 
brain. 

HOOF BOUND, TO CURE. 

Take spirits of turpentine 4 ounces ; tar 4 ounces ; 
whale oil eight ounces. Mix and apply to the hoof quite 
frequently and you will have a cure. 

HAIR, TO PREVENT FROM FALLING OUT. 

Take tincture of iodine 2 drachms ; tincture of can- 
tharides 2 drachms ; strong sage tea 4 ounces ; bay rum 2 



HOO VERS RECIPES. 87 

ounces ; glycerine 2 ounces ; lac sulphur, pulverized, 1 
ounce. Mix well before using. Apply once a day for a 
week or longer if necessary. 

HEAVES IN HORSES, A CHAMPION REMEDY. 

Take balsam of fir and balsam of copabia, of each 4 
ounces. Mix with calcined magnesia so as to make into* 
balls, and give a middling sized ball at night and in the 
morning for 8 or 10 days. The balls may be an ounce in* 
weight. Can break fine and put in oats. 

HEALTHY BABIES, HOW TO HAVE. 

It is a question in chief with some childless people., 
and I am aware it is important, how to have babies at all* 
To all such persons I would refer to be considered here, by 
what means it is necessary to secure healthy children when 
people are capable of healthy offspring. The human, 
family is not sufficiently interested in it. This we know r 
but should endeavor to improve the physical and moral 
condition of the human race, by calling attention to it. If 
women, girls and boys were for sale on the market in the 
civilized world, as they are in some barbarous countries, if 
they could be sold like cattle or sheep, the commercial 
spirit and age would demand improvement in the stock of 
human beings, as it demands and is busy in securing an 
improved stock of domestic animals, w 7 hile at home their offr 
spring are creatures of accident, conceived, in many in T 
stances, under circumstances which render them puny:,, 



88 HOO VERS RECIPES. 

sickly and ill-natured, if not constitutionally immoral. The 
iirst proposition embodies a certain class of people who are 
(physically infirm, and should not have children while such 
[infirmities exist, because they are almost certain to trans- 
mit them to offspring, and the combined infirmities of 
•each parent, when both are diseased. In some barbarous 
•countries diseased and ill-formed children are destroyed as 
soon as born. This is a mercy, but disregard of the true 
law will suffer such to live. 

HEIFERS, DRIED UP TOO SOON. 

Heifers after calving the first time should not be let 
Tun dry so soon, as this will cause them to run dry in about 
the same time in after years. For this reason be careful 
to milk closely for the first year, until about three weeks 
previous to the time for calving, and your cows will not 
stand dry most all the year when getting older. Try this, 
aunty. 

HORSE SHOE TALISMEIM, MYSTERY. 

It is strange that in one country the male organ was 
•considered all powerful, in an other it would be that of the 
female to which the wonderful powers of the Deity were 
ascribed, although in Ireland carved figures, representing 
the female organ, have been found over the doors or en- 
trances to churches. It may be quite interesting to those 
who nail horse shoes over their doors for good luck, to 
know that this is one of the relics of the pagan worship 
tinder consideration. It was the universal practice of the 



HOO VERS RECIPES. 89 

Arabs of Africa to nail up in front of their tents, over 
their doors, the generative organs of the cow, or mare, or 
the she camel, to keep away witches, and the evil eye ; 
when impossible to obtain these, a drawing of the same 
was substituted. This being done when the original mean- 
ing of this sign had been forgotten, the horseshoe then be- 
came the talisman, and may be frequently met with all over 
the world. I have so far in this work climbed no fences 
to get around, nor made any bridges to get over what are 
regarded muddy currents. By wading right through, I 
desire that this work may be worthy of acceptance of the 
public for adults and the younger sexes in general. 

INDIGESTION, REMEDY FOR. 

Take turkey rhubarb -J- an ounce ; sulphate of qui- 
nine 1 drachm ; extract of sarsaparilla 1 drachm. Put 
the sarsaparilla in a teacup with 3 or 4 teaspoons of cold 
water. Let it stand until dissolved then add the other 
articles. Make it into a stiff paste ; it will then be ready 
to make into pills, with the use of a little flour. Dose, 2 
pills every other night. Is good for self abuse, if used 
regularly. 

INFANTS, MILK FOR, TO GIVE. 

First of all get milk from a healthy cow. This milk 
should theu be made as much like human milk as possible; 
this can be done by adding a little loaf sugar, and about J 
or J- of water. The water should be hot and the sugar 
dessolved in it, then pour it slowly into the milk and allow 



90 HO VERS RECIPES. 

it to simmer a little over the fire. If the milk is scorched 
throw it away. This should be done in the morning with 
the first milk you intend to use during the day, and in the 
evening with that to be used during the night. The cup 
and spoon used to feed the infant should never be used for 
any other purpose whatever, and should be scalded after 
using. If all the milk placed in the cup be not used, 
throw it away, for it should by no means be poured back in- 
to the bottle. The most trifling thiag about the milk 
which the mother cannot detect will often cause the most 
serious trouble to the child. The utmost cleaDliness in the 
handling of milk cups, bottles and spoons is important if 
the child's life is valued. As soon as the child has been 
fed from the bottle, throw away what milk may be left, 
and cleanse both bottle and nipple. When it becomes 
necessary to feed infants on milk other than that of the 
mother, the greatest care should be taken to always have 
it pure and fresh. A careful observance of these rules 
will often save a child from a spell of sickness, and the 
time for so doing is not lost if considered well, and so done 
in faith and honesty, by the lovers of infants. 

INABILITY TO HOLD URINE. 

Take leaves of belladonna 1 grain ; acetic acid 6 
drops ; rain water 5 ounces. Mix , dose, for an adult, 1 
tablespoonful 3 times a day ; children must take less. This 
cures in from 6 to 15 days. When dryness of the throat 
begins quit using for awhile. 



HOOVER'S RECIPES. 91 

INFLAMMATION, EXTERNAL CURE FOR. 

Take saturni extract 1 ounce ; French brandy 2 
ounces ; water 4 or 5 ounces. Mix all together in a bottle 
and wash the sore parts every 2 or 3 hours during the 
day. 

ITCH, REMEDY FOR. 

Take flower of sulphur 2J ounces ; cream of tartar 1 
ounce. Mix well. Dose, 1 tablespoonful in the evening ; 
can rinse it down with water. For a week or longer. 

Inflamed. Sore and Swollen Neck. 
Take old or thick honey 4 ounces ; white dog's dung 3 
ounces ; 6 drops oil of spike. Mix all together and put 
on a rag; wrap around the neck; put on warm. 

INDIAN PAIN KILLER, TO MAKE. 

Alcohol 1 quart ; gum gwaiac 1 ounce ; gum myrrh 
J an ounce ; gum camphor h an ounce ; cayenne pepper, 
pulverized, 3 drachms. Mix; shake freely for a week and 
apply freely to the painful parts. It may be taken in- 
wardly in teaspoon ful doses, for internal pains. Repeat 
the dose according to its wants. 

Indigestion, Nervousness and Sour Stomach. 

In case of a restless disposition and inability to sleep 
well at night, the following will be found serviceable : 
Take tincture of valerian 1 ounce; tincture of lupulin 1 
ounce ; liquor of potash J an ounce. Mix and take a, 
tablespoon 3 or 4 times a day. 



92 HOO VERS RECIPES. 

INTERMARRIAGE OF RELATIVES. 

In this country intermarrying between relatives is 
practiced to an extent that calls loudly for legislative in- 
terference. Statisticians have shown most plainly that a 
large per cent, of the insanity and idiocy in our asylums is 
attributable to this violation of nature's law, and how 
many other diseases may be produced thereby, it is diffi- 
cult to estimate. Speaking of the physical effects of inter- 
marriage between blood relations, for twenty generations 
back certain families of wealth and respectability have 
intermarried, until there cannot be found in three or four 
of them a sound man or woman. One has sore eyes, an- 
other scrofula, the next is an idiot, or is blind or bandy- 
legged, or some other fault, The reason why such marri- 
ages are injurious to offspring is plainly indicated in show- 
ing the necessity of physical adaptation. Has it ever oc- 
curred to the mind of the reader that a man may as well 
marry a half-sister as a full cousin ? It seems so on inves- 
tigation ; indeed, that the same relation in blood exists, 
has been demonstrated in a recent and interesting article. 
Such cases are rare but it is nevertheless true that they do 
sometimes occur, when cousins do entirely differ in tem- 
perament. So we see it is best not to mingle w T ith close re- 
lations, if we are going to raise a stout generation. 

JAUNDICE, A CURE FOR. 

Take pulverized curcuma 1 ounce ; 6 ounces of proof 
spirits. Mix and let macerate for a week then strain or fil- 
ter. Sixty drops can be taken 3 to 5 times a day. 



HOOVERS RECIPES. 93 

JAUNDICE, TO CURE, GOOSE REMEDY. 

Take fresh goose dung h a drachm. To be taken in 
wine two times a day for 2, 3 or 4 days. This is an old 
cure from Europe; unclean but useful. 

JAUNDICE, A POSITIVE CURE. 
Take a teaspoonf ul of pulverized curcuma, one in the 
morning and one in the evening. Can be taken in the 
mouth and rinsed down with water or other drinks, for 3 
or 4 days, a week in extreme cases. 

LICE ON CATTLE, TO DESTROY. 

Wash the back and sides with a strong decoction or 
tea of white oak bark, which will completely tan the lice 
in 24 hours, or bathe the animal all over with a strong de- 
coction of larkspur herbs. This is a good cure for lice. 

LIME WATER, TO MAKE. 
Take of lime 4 ounces ; rain water 1 gallon. The 
lime must first be slacked with a little of the water, and 
stirred together with the remainder of the water. When 
all is slacked, cover the vessel and let it stand for 3 hours, 
then put all of it in bottles and let it stand. Pour off the 
clean liquor when wanted for use. The dose is about one 
ounce 3 or 4 times a day. Is very useful in dyspepsia. 

LINIMENT FOR THE NERVES. 
Take an eight ounce vial, put in spirits of hartshorn 
1 J ounces ; sulphuric ether \h ounces ; spirits of turpen- 



94 HOOVERS RECIPES. 

tine 1J ounces ; sweet oil § ounce ; oil of cloves J ounce ; 
chloroform one fluid ounce. Mix all together and shake 
well. Used for nervous affections and for string halts in 
horses, cramps, sprains and swellings in joints. 

LINIMENT OF BEEF GALLS. 

Take 1 pint of alcohol ; 1 ounce of gum camphor ; 
1 beef gall. Mix the gall and alcohol thoroughly, then 
add the camphor. Shake the bottle before using. The 
above receipt is the best in existence for sprains, rheuma- 
tism, pains in the joints, bones, etc., and all diseases re- 
quiring an outward application. Hub the parts well 3 or 4 
times during the day, and on retiring at night. 

Long Standing Complaints, to Cure, Particularly 
Inside. 

Take the following to purify the blood : guaiacum 
shavings 8 ounces ; burdock root 2 ounces ; sassafras root 
or bark 2 ounces ; pulverized antimonium H ounces ; 
raisins l'-J ounces. Put all of the above in 1 gallon of 
water. Boil slowly for a few hours and keep it covered 
while boiling, then strain and take a gill of this morning 
and evening. Can put J a pint of alcohol in it to keep 
it from getting sour. 

LINIMENT, A SIMPLE ONE. 

Take of olive oil 4 ounces ; white wax 1 ounce. Dis- 
solve the wax in the oil with a gentle heat ; stir well until 



HOOVERS RECIPES. 95 

cold. This may be used to keep the hands or skin soft 
and smooth in cold weather, or when the hands will crack. 

THE LIVER, AN EXPLANATION THEREOF 

The liver is of a reddish brown color, measuring at 
least ten inches in length, and six inches in width, and 
three inches in thickness, and weighing from three to four 
pounds. It is located high up in the cavity of the abdo- 
men, beneath the lower ribs and the midriff of the right 
side, opposite the stomach, which it partly overlaps. The 
bile ducts originate in the minute branches in the interior 
of the liver, and, uniting together, they empty into the gall 
bladder under the liver. The gall bladder is shaped like a 
pear with its largest extremity hanging downward, a little 
below the lower edge of the liver. It will be, and is, well 
understood that the bile is not poured into the stomach as 
many people think, but that it goes into the duodenum 
some six or seven inches below the stomach. If the bile 
does not enter the stomach as was generally thought by 
the people, what a powerful influence it would have on the 
price of anti-bilious physics, to cleanse the bile out of the 
stomach when it does not go into it. No bile can be intro- 
duced into the stomach except when the action of the 
stomach and intestines is reversed. 

LIQUID GLUE, HOW TO MAKE. 

Take 1 ounce of borax in a pint of boiling water, add 
2 ounces of gum shellac, and boil in a covered vessel until 



96 HOOVERS RECIPES. 

the lac is dissolved. This will make a very useful and 
cheap cement, and will withstand the damp better than 
the common glue. This is superior to any prepared glue 
in the market. Use like other glues. 

LOST APPETITE AND FOR DYSPEPSIA. 

Take rhubarb 1 ounce ; ginger 1 ounce ; aloes J an 
ounce ; gum of myrrh 2 drachms ; cayenne pepper 2 
drachms ; saffron 1 drachm ; cloves 2 drachms ; sassafras 
bark \ ounce ; goldenseal ^ an ounce ; good w 7 hiskey 1 
quart. Let digest for two weeks strain and bottle. Dose, one 
tablespoonful h an hour before meal time. Good for dys- 
pepsia, lost appetite and derangement of the stomach or a 
weak stomach. 

LEUCORRHEA OR WHITES, A REMEDY FOR. 

Take beth root two ounces ; star root 1 ounce ; peru- 
vian bark 1 ounce ; all finely pulverized. Put on 1 pint 
of boiling water and when cold put all in a bottle ; add a 
pint of port wine. Dose, 2 ounces 3 times a day. This 
is a superior family tonic and astringent for the whites in 
woman, if well tried. 

LINIMENT FOR STIFF JOINTS. 

Take 2 ounces of neats foot oil ; oil of linseed, oil of 
hemlock, oil of cedar, tincture of lobelia, tincture of cay- 
enne, beef gall, of each 1 ounce ; alcohol 4 ounces. Mix 
all together and shake the bottle before using. Bathe 
or wash the joints with this liniment 2 or 3 times a day. 



HO VERS RECIPES. 97 

Is an excellent liniment for contracted tendons, stiff j- ints 
and rheumatism accompanied by swelling. 

LINIMENT, A NEVER FAILING ONE. 

Take \ a pint of angle or fish worms, put them in a 
bottle, then add 1 ounce oil of sassafras ; 1 ounce of spirits 
of turpentine ; 2 tablespoonsful of salt, Let stand in the 
sun for 2 or 3 days, or until the worms are all cut, then 
strain through flannel to extract the dirt, and bottle for 
use. This liniment, if used freely at least twice a day, and 
persevered in, will overcome the stiffness of any joint, 
where it is possible to do so. This is worth trying. 

LIVING DROPS, HOW TO MAKE. 

Take oil of cajeput J an ounce ; oil of cloves J an 
ounce; oil of anise J an ounce ; alcohol 2 ounces. • Mix and 
shake well. For bilious croup, flatulence, colic and pain 
in the stomach or bowels, cramps, spasms and the like. 
Dose, from 10 to 30 drops every 2 or 3 hours. 

LIGHT IN A SICK ROOM. WHY SO. 
Many mistakes are the result of a total want of knowl- 
edge of the great importance of light, which is only sec- 
ond to fresh air. Darkness may do to horrify criminals to 
the dark vault or tomb, but life of any kind, whether ani- 
mal or vegetable, requires light. It is an error to suppose 
that light affects only the spirit, for it assists to purify the 
air and the want of it often helps to produce scrofula or 
consumption. There is some mysterious life giving power 



98 HOO VERS RECIPES. 

in light. A room kept darkened is soon filled with an un- 
pleasant odor, and becomes positively unhealthy. For 
this reason the sickroom should always be on the south or 
sunny side of the house. It is found that diseases are not 
nearly so fatal when the patient is kept in a room to which 
the sunlight is freely admitted, and there is less sickness 
in families who have their living rooms on the south side 
of their houses, than in families living in north rooms. 
No person suffering from grief should enter a sick room, 
and the patient should never see anyone crying. Loud 
talking is cruel and whispering is worse. Hold no conver- 
sation in a sick room and don't be afraid to ask a neighbor 
to stop talking or step into the next room until you can be 
at liberty, for the feelings of the patient are of vastly more 
importance than those of any careless or rude visitor. It 
tries the sick to listen and annoys them if they cannot un- 
derstand the conversation, and which is well worthy to 
take notice of in time. 

LINIMENT, SUPERIOR TO ALL. 
This is one of the best liniments ever made for man 
or .beast. Take laudanum, alcohol, and oil of wormwood. 
Mix well. Its effect is of great value. Take equal parts 
of each and always gtt the best of the articles. 

LEATHER, TO PRESERVE WATER PROOF. 

Take 1 pint of boiled linseed oil ; J- a pound of mut- 
ton tallow ; 6 ounces clean beeswax ; 4 ounces rosin. Melt, 



HOOVERS RECIPES. 99 

mix over a fire and apply while warm, but not so hot as to 
burn the leather. Lay on plentifully with a brush and 
warm it in by the stove. 

LIQUID BLUEING FOR CLOTH. 

Take 1 ounce of Prussian blue, or Chinese blue is the 
best. Pulverize fine and put in a quart of rain water. 
Add J an ounce of oxalic acid ; 1 tablespoonf ul to a cup of 
water in cloth blueing. 

MIND THE FOOD THAT WE EAT. 

When we consider the fact that man eats by habit, al- 
most as much so as the hog, and that he eats about seveu 
hundred pounds of food, exclusive of fluids, annually, it 
ought to surprise no one when I say that derangements of 
the blood arise from the use of improper food. See how 
directly the food goes into the blood. The food is taken 
into the mouth and then into the stomach, and is digested 
and passes down into the lower stomach, where it meets the 
pancreatic fluids, is sucked up in to a duct, and carried 
directly into the blood at the turn formed by the great 
jugular vein on the left side of the neck and on the left 
arm, then directly it goes to the manufacture of bones, 
muscles and nerves. At home we are treated to various 
and all sorts of mixed dishes, seasoned with condiments 
and well saturated with the juice of swine. One 
of the most common causes of blood impurities is the use 
of pork. It has been said that all things are created for 



100 HOOVERS RECIPES. 

some wise purpose. This is undoubtedly true, but hogs 

were never intended to eat. We read that Christ used 

hogs to drown devils, and yet we eat such dirty and nasty 

stuff. 

MILK SCAB IN CHILDREN, TO CURE. 

The eruption of this disease consists at first of slightly 
elevated pustules or pimples, closely collected together 
with inflamed edges. These break and the surface becomes 
red, shining and full of sores. These scabs sometimes 
look like honey dried upon the skin, and hence the name 
of honey disease. It is very common on the ears and lips 
of children. It is aho called the milk scab when it covers 
the whole face. Treatment : give a purgative, and let the 
patient take a hot bath; as a local application equal parts 
of blood root and white pond lily. Say 1 ounce, and 
cider vinegar 6 ounces. Mix, let stand for 24 hours and 
apply as a wash with a soft sponge 4 or 5 times a day. The 
oxide of zinc ointment is also good. 

MORTIFICATION IN MEN, TO CURE. 

Take flower of sulphur 2 ounces; gunpowder 1 
ounce ; alum 1 ounce. Pulverize and mix. Dose, J- tea- 
spoonful 2 times a day, for 1 or 2 days. 

MORTIFICATION OR GANGREEN IN HORSES. 

Take brimstone 15 ounces ; saltpeter 10 ounces ; alum 
8 ounces. All to be pulverized and mixed. One table- 
spoonful for a horse once a day. Can be given more fre- 
quently if necessary, for 1 or 2 days. 



HOOVER S RECIPES. 101 

MOTHER DROPS, VALUABLE. 

Take ether 2 ounces ; yellow amber \ an ounce. Mix 
and let stand awhile before using. Dose, 25 to 30 grains 
2 or 3 times a day. Used for the mother or womb. 

MOTHER'S OLD COUGH REMEDY. 

Take water 3 quarts ; wheat bran 1 quart ; tar 1 pint; 
honey half pint. Simmer all together for three hours. 
When cold add 1 pint of brewer's yeast. Let stand thirty- 
six hours then bottle. Dose, 1 to 2 tablespoonsful 3 or 4 
times a day. Good for consumption, the lungs and a 
cough. 

MARBLE STONES, TO CLEAN. 

Take 2 ounces of soda ; 1 ounce of pumice stone ; 
\ an ounce of finely powdered chalk. Sift it through a fine 
sieve ; mix with water and rub it well over the marble, 
and the stain will be removed. Then wash the marble 
over with soap and water, and it will be as clean as it was 
when first put up. 

Mother's Food, and for Pregnant Women. 
It is not necessary to enter into an argument to show 
why a child with a large frame should give the mother 
more pain in its delivery than one with a small frame. The 
fact is self evident. It matters not how fat the little fel- 
low becomes, because his flesh is yielding and readily con- 
forms to the shape of the passage, but a large and inflexi- 
ble frame reverses the fact and makes the passage conform 



102 HOOVERS RECIPES. 

to it. Many women, during gestation, will resort to the 
very diet that will do the most mischief. It is therefore 
plain that all preparations of Indian corn are an unsuitable 
diet for women who are pregnant. Experience has shown 
that the pains and perils of child bed may be greatly di- 
minished if pregnant women will only pay strict regard to 
their diet, and eat such food as possesses the least 
amount of calcareous matter. What I mean by calcareous 
matter, is that wnich, when taken into the system, goes to 
produce bone. There can be no mistake in the hypothesis 
that the foetus in the womb is nourished by the same food 
which is eaten by the mother, and if this contains a large 
quantity of calcareous matter, the frame of the unborn 
child is too rapidily developed, which causes greater dan- 
ger and more pain in its delivery. 

Mother's Fault for Children Using Liquor. 

The reason that some children will indulge in strong 
liquor is this: When a child chokes, strangles or over 
drinks itself, while nursing, such children will indulge in 
strong drink when getting older in years. Mothers, be- 
ware of this; do not let your babe strangle itself while 
nursing. A child should not nurse over two hundred and 
sixty days at the most. Please try the above rule with 

faith. 

MAGNETIC OINTMENT, TO MAKE. 

Take lard, raisins cut in pieces, and fine cut tobacco, 
equal weights. Simmer well together, strain and press out 



HO VERS RECIPES. 103 

all from the dregs. This is an excellent ointment for salt- 
rheum, and other skin diseases. It is good for piles, 
bruises and cuts. 

MOTHS, REMEDY AGAINST. 

Take gum camphor 1 ounce ; powdered shells of red 
pepper 1 ounce. Macerate in 8 ounces of good alcohol for 
a week, then strain. With this tincture the furs or cloth 
are sprinkled over and rolled up in sheets. This remedy 
is useful if well done. 

MEN'S PRIVATE LINES, TO LEARN. 

As a general rule men want to know more of women 
than they do of themselves, and I venture that the ma- 
jority of men will read the lines "private words to women" 
before reading these lines which are especially intended for 
men. Still, it may be said that men are generally better 
informed on the structure of the male organization than 
the women are on the anatomy of the female body. The 
ignorance of men, however, in regard to themselves is 
highly necessary to know, when their advantages for in- 
formation are taken into account. A certain person who 
wanted to be a smart man was trying to make an injection 
into the rectum for worms, and after a week or so he sent 
word to the doctor that half the liquid advised by him could 
not be put to use. On further information it was found 
that the man had mistaken the urethra for the rectum. So 
the person was afflicted with soreness and swelling of the 



104 HOO VERS RECIPES. 

bladder, and on examination it was found that they were 
talking about the scrotum. Some men actually suppose 
that the water and the s°minal fluids come from the same 
canal, and that the canal is the scrotum. Some men im- 
agine that the testicles are connected by short ducts 
with the urethra, and that the seminal fluids are injected 
dnecly upwards into and out of it. I trust every male 
reader will carefully look into all that I may present in 
this chapter, for, by so doing, we may better comprehend 
the sexual orgacs, and be induced to take better care of 
them. The urethra is composed of a spongy substance, 
which expands in forming what is called the glans penis. 
The main branch of the pubic artery enters the penis. 
The whole organ is enveloped with a loose skin which is 
attached at the neck formed by the junction of the glans 
or head. In repose the penis is shrunken and flaccid, 
measuring not more than about one-third its length, and 
when in a state of erection, it congests all the cellular 
and utmost limits of expansion. Then its average length 
is six inches, but there are all sorts of deviations from this 
measurement. When the organ is small can it be enlarg- 
ed ? I think it cannot be enlarged, unless it is shrunken 
by disease or abuse. The penis is subject to various dis- 
eases, from impure coition. The glans penis is often 
scalded by coming in contact with the female vagina, aud 
will become the seat of pustules and sores called chancre, 
or, in vulgar parlance, the pox. If proper habits of clean- 



HOO VERS RECIPES. 105 

liness were observed by those of both sexes there would 
be less prudery respecting the organs of generation, al- 
though abuse must be looked after. 
Mare, to Tell Whether With Horse or Mare Foal. 

If the mare lies on her left side at night she will have 
a stud colt, by lying on the right she will have a mare colt, 
because the seed of the male is more on the right, and of 
the female more on the left side. The right sides of all 
creatures are more warm and stronger than the left sides 
are. Wean your colts when the moon is full ; alter your 
colts when in the new moon, while there is not much sap 
in the flesh. 

NIGHT SWEATS, TO CURE. 

Mix together 30 grains of oxide of zinc, and 15 grains 
of extract of conium. Divide int > ten pills. The dose is 
2 pills every evening until well. Is a useful cure. 
Nervous Spasms and Sexual Intercourse. 

Take sulphuric ether 1 ounce ; sweet spirits of nitre 1 
ounce ; ladies slipper root or extract \ an ounce ; red San- 
ders 1 drachm ; oil of cinnamon ^ a drachm ; oil of anise 
\ a drachm ; brandy or good whiskey 1 pint. Mix and let 
stand 10 or 12 days, bhake the bottle frequently. This 
is an excellent nerve tonic and is useful in spasms, cramps, 
nervous irritability and hysterics, and for weakness from 
excess in sexual intercourse. The dose is a teaspooful 
every 3 or 4 hours. Is a warrant* d blood purifier. 



1.06 HO VERS RECIPES. 

NEURALGIA PILLS, TO MAKE. 

Take extract of hyosciamus 1 drachm ; extract of 
aconite 30 grains ; macretion 20 grains ; morphine 5 grains. 
Make into 40 pills, thickening the mass if necessary with 
a little powdered licorice root or ginger. Dose, 1 pill 
every three hours until relief is obtained. Good in neural- 
gia and all severe nervous pains. 

NIGHT SWEATS, AN OLD REMEDY. 

Take a good sized nutmeg, a lump of alum the same 
size and a teaspoon of cloves. Pulverize all and add to it 
1 pint of brandy or good whiskey. Dose, 1 tablespoonful 
3 or 4 times a day, shaking the bottle well each time be- 
fore using. 

Night Sweats, to Cure, after Fever and in Con- 
sumption. 
Many persons are troubled with night sweats; they are 
caused by weakness or general deblility. For its relief 
take essence of tansy J an ounce ; alcohol 2 drachms ; qui- 
nine 15 grains ; muriatic acid 30 drops. Mix ; dose, 1 tea- 
spoonful in a gill of cold sage tea 2 or 3 times a day, and 
at bed time. The cold sage tea should be freely used as a 
drink. It will even cure ague by repeating the above 
dose every hour, if begun to use in time. 

Nerve Stomach Wine, and to Bring Tardy Menses on. 

Take gentian root 1 drachm ; Indian turnip 1 drachm; 

gum myrrh 1 drachm ; orange peel 1 drachm ; filing of 



HOOVER'S RECIPES. 107 

steel 1 ounce ; peruvian bark h an ounce. Take a quart 
of good wine and put all of the above in it and let macer- 
ate for 3 or 4 days. Dose, 1 tablespoonful morning and 
evening on an empty stomach. 

. NEURALGIA, AN INTERNAL REMEDY FOR. 

Take salammoniac h a drachm, disolve in water 1 ounce. 
Dose, 1 tablespoon every 3 minutes for 20 minutes, at the 
end of which time the pain will disappear. 

NERVOUS DISEASES, TO ALLAY. 

Take tincture of valerian 1 ounce ; sulphuric ether 
J an ounce ; compound spirits of lavender J an ounce ; 
spirits of camphor 1 ounce. Mix in a bottle ; dose, from 
1 to 2 teaspoonsful every 3 hours ; to allay nervous debili- 
ty and to strengthen the nervous system, particularly in 
delicate females, and to quiet excitability. 

OINTMENT FOR PILES. 

Take extract of belladonna 1 drachm ; extract of 
stramonium 1 drachm ; sulphate of zinc 20 grains ; sugar 
of lead 20 grains ; prussic acid (common, strong) 5 drops, 
if can be had ; pure fresh lard 1 ounce. Mix well to 
form an ointment. To be applied to the pile tumors twice 
a day. This has been used with the most satisfactory re- 
sults in all the different varieties of this distressing 
malady ; and may be relied upon as truly valuable in obsti- 
nate cases. Also good in tetter and salt rheum. 



108 HOOVER'S BECIPES. 

ONE'S APPETITE, HOW TO TAKE AWAY. 

To 10 teaspoons of water put 1 grain of tarter emetic. 
Dose, 1 teaspoonf ul every 2 hours until a good appetite is 
getting poor. 

OIL OF CREAM, FOR PILES. 

Take of the inner green bark of elder, fresh gathered, 
three hands full, and of the best cream 2 pounds. Boil 
•well together till the cream turns to an oil, then boil over 
with fresh bark. It is the best remedy for piles and 
tumors. Annoint the external parts twice a day and use 
as much as you can so as to reach the tumors. 

On the Abuse of Reproductive Organs. 

Marriage is an institution designed to bring the sexes 
into the proper relations with each other, for mutual im- 
provement of their mental powers and the benefit of na- 
ture's offspring. If we consult the Mosaic law for a guide 
or rule in regard to this matter, we will learn that at men- 
struation, and for five days after, the woman is unclean, 
and that it is unlawful. Five days are consecrated to 
purification. From that time forward for two weeks con- 
ception may take place, and the legitimate exercises of 
these functions is lawful. At the close of this period, and 
during gestation or pregnancy, it is not lawful, according 
to the doctrine of modern guides, if the object is not for 
the gratification of animal passion, but the intelligent pro- 
creation of healthy and superior offspring. It would appear 



HOOVER'S RECIPES. 109> 

from recent investigations that children born within the 
first seven days after menstruation are usually females,and 
those born during the second week after are usually males. 
This rule also proves true in regard to domestic animals. 
If conception takes place at the commencement of the 
period of heat, the young will be a female, and if it takes 
place towards the close of this period, it will be a male. 
Experiments with common fowls show that the sex can be 
determined before the birth, and that the sexes can be pro- 
created at will, not only among domestic animals, but also 
in human beings. If the female is bred to the male when 
the hen first comes from the nest, then the chick will be a 
female, and if impregnation takes place several hours after, 
it will be a male. Why the progeny will be a female if 
the newly formed ovum is impregnated when it first escapes 
from the ova sac, and a male if impregnated while passing 
through the duct to the organs of reproduction. To raise 
males or females at your leisure, have your companion lie 
or sleep on your left side for male children, and on your 
right side for females. There is yet room for us to all 
learn in private affairs. 

OINTMENT, STRAMONIUM, TO MAKE. 

Take fresh stramonium leaves, cut fine, 1 pound; lard 
3 pounds ; bees wax \ pound. Boil the leaves in lard until 
they become friable, then strain and add the wax. Melt 
the wax first, then mix and stir until cold. This is a use- 



110 HOOVERS RECIPES. 

ful anodyne, and for piles and sores of various kinds. 
Used as a salve in cutaneous eruptions. 

OLD VERMIFUGE REMEDY. 

Castor oil, oil of worm seed, oil of anise, tincture of 
myrrh, of each 1 ounce ; oil of turpentine 10 drops. Mix 
well. One tablespoonf ul 3 times a day, or until it purges 
freely. 

OPODELDOC, TO MAKE. 

Take of the best brandy 1 quart. Warm it, and add 
gum camphor 1 ounce ; salammoniac 2 drachms ; oil of 
wormwood 2 drachms ; oil of origanum J ounce ; oil of 
rosemary \ ounce ; when the oils are dissolved by the heat 
then add six ounces of soft or smear soap. This is an old 
liniment from Europe. 

OIL LAMPS IN A BEDROOM. 

Having an oil lamp burning all night in a bed room 
is a disagreeable and unhealthy evil, on account of the foul 
air and gas that is escapiug from the lamp all night, par- 
ticularly in a sick room. Much more so in a sleeping room, 
particularly with a kerosene oil lamp. Is well worth tak- 
ing notice of the above lines. 

ORIFICE OF THE VAGINA. 

It is situated just below the vestibule, and the urethral 
orifice. In cases of child births where the deliveries are 
violent, the orifices of the urethra and vagina are fre- 
quently lacerated as to become one. The entrance of the 



HO VERS RECIPES. 1 1 1 

vagina, in virgins is abridged or partly closed by a fold of 
the lining membrane, designated as the hymen. This 
has been called the barrier between the external and 
internal parts of generation. It has a very different ap- 
pearance in different women, varying considerably in 
shape, place and strength, but generally resembles a half 
moon in form. It commonly only surrounds the lower 
half of the vaginal orifice. It is sometimes found that the 
whole entrance, having only a small hole in the center, or 
upper part, allowing the escape of the menstrual discharge. 
It is found at times closing the entrance, thus preventing 
the escape of the menses. This sometimes possesses con- 
siderable strength, so that its rupture is not easily effected, 
but usually it readily gives way in the act of coition, its 
ruins shrinking into two or three irregular folds, wart-like 
in shape, on each side. It has, therefore, been esteemed a 
test of virginity, and has given rise to many idle stories 
and silly notions. While it is commonly found in virgins, 
its presence is not a conclusive proof of perfect chas- 
tity, and its absence is much less so to the contrary ; 
even where it does exist it is liable to be lost by numerous 
accidental causes, for which the female is in no way re- 
sponsible, and where it has been lost, the vaginal entrance 
may be naturally or artificially contracted so that no one 
short of an expert can detect its absence. 

OLD BITTERS, TO STREGTHEN. 

Take rye whiskey 1 gallon ; 1 pint wild cherries ; 50 



112 HOOVERS RECIPES. 

peach kernels or seeds ; 1 ounce of worm wood herbs or 
stalks ; 1 tablespoonful of apple seeds or kernels; J ounce 
of Virginia snake root. All to be smashed with a hammer, 
then mixed. Shake the bottle 3 times a day, for 8 or 10 
days, and take 1 tablespoonful 2 or 3 times a day, a while 
after meals. This is worth using. 

PECTORAL DROPS, TO MAKE. 
Take paregoric 10 ounces ; tincture of castor 4 ounces; 
laudanum 1 ounce ; tincture of saffron 1 ounce ; oil of 
aniseseed 15 drops. Mix ; dose 1 teaspoonful in cases of 
cough or cold. 

PLEURISY, A CURE FOR. 

Take herbs, such as worm wood, tansy, wild or tame 
chamomile, hops, wheat bran, a handful of each. Take a 
big tablespoonful of lard, and put it in a pan with the 
herbs, fry it all together, pour a little vinegar on it while 
in the pan, put it on a cloth and lay it on the painful parts, 
renewing it whenever it gets cold and dry. Keep on until 
the pain is cured. 

PAPER PASTE, TO MAKE. 

Take soft water 3 ounces ; gum arabic 1 ounce ; glyc- 
erine J ounce. Dissolve by heat, and bottle for use. This 
is a regular paper paste. 

PILES, A NEW REMEDY FOR. 

Take flower of sulphur 1 teaspoonful, morning and 
evening, in a little milk. This is a good and prominent 



HOO VERS RECIPES. 113 

cure for the piles, as signified by the -title. Rinse down 
with water. 

PILES, TUMORS, SWELLINGS, AND PAINS. 

Take \ pound of the bark of bitter sweet roots ; 1 
pound of lard ; simmer a few hours to get the strength out, 
then strain. This is good for swelling breasts, and to drive 
away tumors or swellings, and also for piles. 

PAREGORIC ELIXIR, TO MAKE. 

Take opium, in powder 1 drachm ; bencoic acid 1 
drachm ; oil of anise 1 fluid drachm ; clarified honey 2 
ounces ; gum camphor 2 scruples ; diluted alcohol 1 quart. 
Macerate for fourteen days, and filter. To allay cough in 
chronic catarrh, asthma, and consumption, and to relieve 
nausea, and slight pains in the stomach and bowels, and to 
check diarrhoea, and in infantile cas< s to produce sleep. 
For infants 5 to 20 drops ; for an adult, 1 to 2 fluid 
drachms 2 or 3 times a day. 

POISON, TO CURE. 

Dissolve sugar of lead the size of a hazlenut in half a 
teacup of water, made warm. Apply warm with a rag. 
Three or four applications are sufficient to effect a cure. 
POWERFUL ALTERATIVE, TO MAKE. 

Take burdock root 2 pounds; yellow parilla 2 pounds; 
blue flag 1 pound. Make a strong tea or decoction, and 
add 1 drachm of iodide of potassium. Take 2 ounces 3 
times a day. Continue its use for several weeks. Can add 
good whiskey to keep from getting sour. 



114 HOO VERS RECIPES. 

Pork or Swine Eating, Diseases of the Blood. 

We read in the Scriptures that Moses was a wise man, 
and that the Lord commanded him to write and tell his 
people what they must eat, and what they must not eat, 
saying unto him : "stand thou by me and I will make 
thee an instrument of communication with my people," 
and that he wrote the law under the influence of inspira- 
tion, and must have told the truth when he declared in 
-several places, as if to emphasize the fact, that the swine is 
unclean, and of him ye shall not eat, neither you in your 
•day, nor your posterity forever. In fact the word scrofua 
or scrofula, in the Latin, when translated into English, 
gneans sow, and hence this terrible disease has received an 
appropriate name, from the early belief that the disease 
was peculiar to the swine. In essay to scrofula, by sleep- 
ing with the hog, when the Scriptures so plainly and ex- 
plicitly declare in reference to this vile and unclean beast, 
;and then eat him. Let any one, whether he be Jew, 
Christian or heathen, examine the carcass of this filthy 
Ibrute while living, or dissect it after death, and you will 
'soon learn that Moses must have been inspired when he 
declared the beast to be uu clean. Look at its skin, cover- 
ed with mange, dirty, tetter and itchy, so that the poor 
"beast : is often almost crazy to find some log or fence corner 
to rub itself against to obtain relief from itching. Please 
examine the hog's legs, a few inches above his feet, and 
look at the open sores or issues provided by nature to drain 



HOOVER'S RECIPES. 115 

off a part of the scrofulous ichor from his corrupt and 
filthy body. Take hold around the fore leg, near the body, 
press down slowly towards the feet and you will see 
the corruption flow from the open pipes like drainage from 
sewers. Sometimes a hog will wallow in its filthy stye, and 
these little openings become filled up and are closed, so 
that the scrofulous matter cannot escape from the system, 
when the animal will at once sicken, and would soon die, 
did not the owner very humbly get over into his pen and, 
with a corn cob, begin to scrape these outlets open, until 
they begin to discharge again, and the hog soon recovers 
from its illness. Verily, it is true, as the great lawgiver 
has told us, the swine is unclean. Indeed, animal instinct 
teaches all the lower animals this important fact, and 
makes them avoid the hog as food. No beast or bird of 
prey will eat a dead hog. They may lie dead in the field 
or by the roadside and no animal will touch them, unless 
driven to do so by the pangs of hunger and despair. No 
domestic animal will eat raw pork unless driven to do so by 
starvation. Instinct teaches them all that it is unclean. 
Indeed it is an old saying that "dog will not eat hog, 
neither will hog eat dog." Some may say that under the 
law the hog was unclean but under the gospel it was puri- 
fied. Oh, no! the Saviour of men did not come into the world 
for any such purpose, and besides, from the very nature of 
the circumstances, even the gospel could not make that 
clean which was, in its very nature, unclean. If the 



116 HOOVERS RECIPES. 

swine was unclean in the time of Moses, he remains 
unclean until this day. A clergyman seated at the table 
with one of his deacons, and having roast pig for dinner, 
the deacon requested him to ask a blessing, so he raised his 
eyes towards heaven, not knowiug what to do or say, but 
he remembered the law, the swine is unclean, of him ye 
shall not eat, so he exclaimed, "Oh, God ! if Thou canst 
bless, under the gospel, what thou did curse under the law, 
then bless this pig." We never read anywhere in profane 
or sacred history of a pig being offered as a sacrifice to the 
one true and living God, or even to the false gods, except 
with the purpose of defiling the altar and ignoring the 
sacrifice. Jews eat no pork, they reverence and obey the 
law and are blessed from scrofula and kindred diseases, 
w 7 hich the hog will produce. 

POLISH FOR STOVES, TO MAKE. 

A teaspoonful of pulverized alum mixed with the 
stove polish, will give the stove a fine lustre which will be 
equally permanent. 

Painful Menstruation or Woman's Tincture. 

Take the best guaiac, in powder, 4 ounces ; carbonate 
of soda 1 \ drachms ; pimento, in powder, 1 ounce ; di- 
luted alcohol 1 pound. Digest for a few days. The dose 
is a teaspoonful 3 times a day, to be gradually increased if 
necessary. This has proved highly useful in painful men- 
struation, and is a cure for the suppression of the menses. 
Can be taken in sweet water. 



HOOVER'S RECIPES. 117 

PILES AND GRAVEL, TO CURE. 

Take a handful of yarrow herbs, and 1 tablespoon of 
chamomile flowers. Boil this in 1 quart of water to a strong 
decoction, then put in a bottle and add J an ounce of fine 
or pulverized red chalk, and 1 ounce of pulverized salt- 
petre. Dose, J a gill morning and evening. Shake the 
bottle well before using. Do not use any milk or vinegar, 
and no pork, while using this medicine. 

PEACHES, HOW TO CAN. 

Pare the peaches and halve them, then pack closely 
into a can, tin or glass, without sugar. When the can is 
full fill the can with cold water. Let stand awhile for the 
water to soak into the crevices ; keep full with water, then 
seal the can. When canned in this way peaches will re- 
tain their freshness and flavor. No boiling is neded. 

SCRATCHES IN HORSES, TO CURE. 

Take Spanish whiting J an ounce ; oxide of zinc 
I ounce ; glycerine 2 drachms. Mix well, then add 1J 
ounces of lard. Slowly stir well. Apply 2 to 3 times a day 
if necessary. 

SWEANY IN HORSES, TO CURE. 

Take oil of spike, oil of origanum, aqua ammonia, 
spirits of turpentine, sweet oil, of each 2 ounces ; alcohol 
1 quart; This is to be applied freely to the parts, and well 
rubbed in every other day. Four applications will cure 
the sweany. Ought to be heated in with a hot iron. 



118 HOOVER'S RECIPES. 

SILVERWARE, TO CLEAN. 

Take Spanish whiting, wet it with aqua ammonia. 
This will cleanse brass from stains, and is excellent to pol- 
ish door knobs, or silver ware. Apply with a rag, then 
wipe with a dry rag. 

SALT RHEUM, TO CURE. 

Take 2 pounds of the juice of buck thorn berries, 
and 1 pound of sugar. Boil to a syrup. Dose, take a 
tablespoonful 4 times a day, for 3 days, then stop 3 days, 
then take it again for 3 days, and so on for several weeks. 
It is also good at the same time to wash or smear the sores 
with Turner's zerate for which directions can be found in 
this book. 

SUNBURN AND CHAPPED HANDS. 

Take 2 drachms of borax ; roman alum 1 drachm ; 
camphor gum 1 drachm ; rock candy \ ounce ; ox gall 1 
pound. Mix and stir for 10 minutes. Stir 3 or 4 times a 
day for 3 or 4 days, then strain or filter, and bottle for use. 
Wash your hands a few times a day, but do not wipe them 
after washing. 

SWEANY IN HORSES, TO CURE. 

Take equal parts of tallow, beeswax, beef marrow and 
sheep tallow ; 1 pint of whiskey and a tablespoonful of 
salt. Put the first four articles into a pot or kettle, melt 
them together, then put in the other articles, and apply to 
the affected parts of the horse. Bathe as hot as the horse 
can bear. You can work the horse right along. 



HOOVERS RECIPES. 119 

SATURNI OINTMENT, TO MAKE. 

Take simple ointment 10 ounces ; acetate of lead 5 
ounces. This is an excellent cooling ointment, used in 
most all kinds of sores, as a salve. 

SOUR STOMACH, TO CURE. 

Take rushes, used to scour tinware, burn to ashes, 
and take 5 to 10 grains, 3 or 4 times a day. Used for 
sour stomach and dyspepsia. 

SORE MOUTH OF CONFINED WOMEN. 

Take iodide of potassium 2 drachms. Put it in a bot- 
tle and add 4 ounces vi rain water. Dose, 1 teaspoonful 
morniDg and evening. This quantity will generally be 
sufficient to cure the worst case, if not then use a second 
bottle in the same way. 

Stomach and Digestion, an Explanation of. 

Pastry, sweet cakes, composed of flour, sugar and lard., 
or butter, and, in fact, all food composed of flour, sugar 
and oils, are rendered insoluble in the weak gastric juice,, 
and are indigestible, while either of these ingredients, 
eaten by itself, in its simple and natural condition, is com- 
paratively wholesome and digestible. When such indi- 
gestible and unwholesome kinds of food are eaten, and are 
not digested, they will soon begin to ferment, filling the 
stomach and intestinal canal with a putrid, decaying ani- 
mal and vegetable substance, which irritates, inflames and 
ulcerates the mucus membrane lining the intestinal canal., 



120 HOO VERS RECIPES. 

causing au incalculable amount of pain, misery and suf- 
fering. These diseases are known as biliousness, liver 
complaints and dyspepsia, terms which are used so often, 
and which nobody, not even doctors, know the meaning of. 

SHEEP, A FEW LINES ON. 

Ewes should not be bred from until two years old. The 
farmer can readily fix the time for lambing, as the ewes 
go with young about 150 days. We may be governed in 
this matter by our own purposes in regard to the lambs, as 
to our own leisure. 

Sheep and Cattle, to Prevent Jumping. 

A variety of ways have been resorted to, to keep such 
stock from jumping fences. Take a pair of sharp scissors 
and clip the eye laches off the under lids only. This will 
keep animals from jumping until the lashes grow long 
again. 

SOUR STOMACH, TO REMEDY. 

Take baking soda 1 drachm, in half a teacup of water 
after meals, or when ever there is heart burn or acidity of 
the stomach. Is an easy remedy. 

STRAW HATS, TO WHITEN. 

Take stick sulphur, pulverize it, mix with water to a 
thick mass, plaster it over the whole hat, then place the 
hat in the hot sun for half a day ; when dry brush off. 
This is an effectual plan. 



HOO VERS RECIPES. 121 

SILVER PLATING FLUID, TO MAKE. 

Dissolve 1 ounce of nitrate of silver in 12 ounces of 
soft water, and put in 2 ounces cyanuret of potash. Let 
dissolve, then shake the whole well together, take a half 
ounce vial and fill half full of Paris white or fine whiting; 
then fill the vial with the liquor, and it is ready for use. 
Put on with a brush or rag. 

SURE CURE FOR TAPEWORM. 

There are about 15 different varieties of worms that 
at various times infest the body. Tapeworms often grow 
from 25 to 30 feet in length. The most sure and safest 
plan is to do without breakfast and dinner, and at about 3 
or 4 o'clock take powdered pumpkin seeds, 2 or 3 heaping 
tablespoonsf ul. Mix with water and drink it. In about 
2 hours take a large dose of castor oil, and a teaspoonful 
of turpentine. This is a sure and safe remedy. 

SHINGLES, NUMBER OF, TO COVER A ROOF. 

First find the number of square inches in one side of 
the roof. Cut off the right hand or unit figure, and the 
result will be the number of shingles required to cover 
both sides of the roof, laying 5 inches to the weather. If 
only for one side, divide the whole number by 2, to get 
only the one-half, or one side. 

SNORING IN SLEEP, TO CURE. 

Snoring is produced by a relaxed palate, and breath- 
ing through the mouth and nose at the same time. A rub- 



122 HOOVERS RECIPES. 

ber band passed over the head and under the chin will pre- 
vent snoring. Try this, old uncle and aunty. 

SUMMER COMPLAINTS, REMEDY. 

Take aloes, mace, myrrh, saffron, rhubarb, gentian, 
cedoary, agaric, theriac, equal parts, or 1 ounce of each to 
1 quart of whiskey. Let it ferment in a hot sun heat for 
ten days. Shake the bottle freely. Dose, 10 to 15 drops 
every half to one hour, it' necessary. 

SCIENCE CONDITION POWDER. 

Take fenuegreek, cream of tartar, gentian, sulphur, 
saltpetre, rosin, black antimony and ginger, equal parts ; 
lye 1 ounce ; all to be finely pulverized; cayenne h ounce. 
Mix thoroughly. It is used in yellow water, hide bound, 
coughs, colds, distemper, and all other diseases where con- 
dition powder is generally used. This purifies the blood. 
Dose, in ordinary cases give 2 teaspoonsful once a day in 
the feed. In extreme cases give it 2 times a day, for a 
week or longer. 

SILVERING POWDER, TO MAKE. 

For silvering copper, take nitrate of silver, common 
salt, of each 30 grains ; cream of tartar 3 drachms. Mix, 
moisten with cold water, and rub on the articles to be sil- 
vered, with a brush or rag. 

SWELLED BAGS OF COWS. 

A good remedy for swelled bags of cows, if caused by 
cold or otherwise, may be cured by taking 4 drachms of 



HOOVER'S RECIPES. 123 

gum camphor ; 2 ounces sweet oil. Melt over a fire or 
stove in a large spoon or ladle. Use as an old fashioned 
salve a few times a day. 

STOMACH ACID, TO DESTROY. 

Take prepared chalk every few hours during the day 
in doses the size of a large bean. This will cure the head 
ache and sickness to which the acid gives rise. 

Sickness, Falling Palsy and Epilepsy. 
Find a place where there are plenty of mullein stalks. 
On the first Friday after Mary the Virgin comes home in 
August, you must go up in the morning without talking, 
go and dig three roots before the sun is up; wash or clean 
the roots, dry them in the shade, cut them short in pieces, 
take five, seven or nine pieces and string them on a red 
woolen yarn string like beads, and hang them around your 
neck like a string of beads. 

Swollen and Hard Breasts of Women. 
Take whiskey 1 ounce ; rose water 1 ounce ; gum ar- 
able 1 ounce. Set in a warm place so as to melt. Put 
this on the sore breasts, one, two or three times a day. 

SWEATING POWDER, TO MAKE, 

Take 1 ounce of saltpetre ; 1 ounce sinega snake root; 
gum camphor 20 grains. Make all in a fine powder. Take 
20 grains every 1 or 2 hours, until the sweat comes on; 
good in thrashing fever. 



124 HOOVERS RECIPES. 

SWELLING AT THE PRIVATE PARTS, 

Take old baked bread, crumble it fine, boil it in milk 
and put oil of sweet emons in it. Put it on a rag and lay 
it warm over the swelling parts. 

SPONGE CAKE, HOW TO MAKE. 

Take 4 eggs ; 2 cups of flour ; 2 cups of sugar even 
full ; beat the two parts of the egg separate — the white to 
froth — then beat them together, stir into the flour and 
without delay put into the oven or stove. 

SUPPRESSED MENSTRUATION REMEDY. 

Take oil of savon, oil of pennyroyal, oil of rosemary, 
oil of tansy and tincture of cantharides, of each 2 drachms. 
Dose, J a teaspoonful 3 times a day in a little sweet water. 
Shake the vial before using. This is a very powerful 
and certain remedy, and must not be taken by pregent 
females, as it will produce abortion. Begin to use this a 
week before the expected time of menstruation. Dose, 10 
drops 3 times a day; increase 2 or 3 drops a day if 
necessary. 

SCURVY OR SORE MOUTH, WASH FOR, 

Take aloes J an ounce ; extract of licorice J an ounce; 
gum myrrh 1 ounce. Pulverize all and add 1 pint of 
brandy. Let digest for 4 days, strain and bottle for use. 
Wash and rub the gums with this 3 times a day. It is 
said to be a certain cure for scurvy. 



HOOVER'S RECIPES. 125 

SCRATCHES ON HORSES, TO CURE. 

Wash their legs with warm soap suds, then wash with 
beef brine. Two applications will cure the worst case of 
scratches. Put on with a rag. 

TO CURE WARTS AND CORNS. 

Take 2 ounces of nitric acid and 1 ounce muriatic 
acid. Mix together slowly. Shave the wart down to the 
quick with a knife, then put the acid on a few times a day. 

TALKING NURSES, CAUTION. 

We know that no greater calamity can befall the sick 
than to have to endure with a talking nurse. Do not keep 
asking the patient "how do you feel?" or "can't I do 
something for you? " but watch him or her closely and 
anticipate every wish if possible. Never allow callers to 
talk to the sick in any way, for absolute rest is what is re- 
quired for the sick at all times and on all sides. 

THE UTERUS OR WOMB ILLUSTRATED. 

The womb resembles a compressed pear, situated in the 
cavity of the pelvis above the vagina, and between the 
urinary bladder and the rectum. It is divided into three 
parts, the fundus, the corpus and the neck. The opening 
into the vagina is bounded by two bulging lips, one of 
which is larger than the other. In the virgin female the 
lips are full, smooth and round, but in giving birth to 
children they are liable to be injured. The internal sur- 
face of the womb is somewhat peculiar. The triaDgular 



126 HOOVERS RECIPES. 

portion is lined with a thin, smooth, delicate and very ves- 
cular membrane, which becomes thicker, harder and less 
vescular in the cavity of the neck, and is folded into 
wrinkles. Between these wrinkles are small orifices which 
disgharge a mucilage fluid, one important purpose of 
which is to close and glue up the mouth of the womb dur- 
ing pregnancy, so that there may no longer be any com- 
munication with the vagina. Some singular peculiarities 
have been met with in reference to this organ. Cases are 
found in which the smallness of the womb rendered the 
female barren, and it has even been found absent altogether. 
It has also been found double, each part having a separate 
connection with the ovary at its side, and a distinct open- 
ing into the vagina. In these cases it is quite possible for 
impregnation to occur at different times, more or less 
closely connected. That is, an ovum might be impreg- 
nated in one of the double parts, and be partially grown, 
and behold, another one might be impregnated in the other 
part, and finally be prepared to be brought forth in the 
form of a new human being, one from each side at the 
same time unexpectedly. 

THE OVARIES AND EGG VESSELS. 

The ovaries or female testes, are two oval shaped 
bodies, of a pale red color, placed about one inch from the 
womb, one on each side. They have an oval shape. At 
the narrrow end is the ovarian ligament, which connects 



HO VERS RECIPES. 127 

them with the side of the womb, close below and behind 
the point of the going off of the oviducts. From puberty 
to the period called the turn of life, which usually takes 
place between the age of forty and fifty years, the ova, 
or eggs, are ripening in the ovisacs and passing to the outer 
surfaces of the ovaries to be set free, and conveyed into 
the womb. They ripen and are set free in succession one 
at a time. This event commonly takes place once a 
month, when in regular order, and is suspended during 
pregnancy and during the nursing of the child. As the 
female advances in life, the sores that are left by the escape 
of the ova become more marked, and finally, as the turn 
of life is passing, the ovaries will cease to perform their 
functions, and will be shrivelled up or shrink to one-half 
their natural size, and will sometimes disappear almost en- 
tirely and the parts unite. 

TINWARE, TO CLEAN. 
Do not use strong lye to clean tin ware, for it will 
spoil the tin. Use soap suds on the tin, and rub well 
with Spanish whiting, for the gloss will then last longer 
than with lye. 

TO REMOVE GREASE FROM CLOTHING. 

Common naptha or what we call benzine, is one of the 
best grease eradicators there is in use. Wet the grease spot 
with this and rub with the hand. This will not take the 
color out. 



128 HOOVERS RECIPES. 

WORMS DISCOVERED IN MEN'S FLESH. 
These worms, in their natural state, inhabit the mus- 
cles of the hog. They have been discovered and seen in 
human muscles. They have the form of hairlike worms, 
enclosed in small globular, oval or minute specks, scarcely 
vissible to the naked eye, yet can be plainly seen with the 
microscope. The number of larval worms that may exist 
in the muscles of a man is simply enormous. The muscles 
of a man of average size may actually contain twenty 
millions or more of these worms. When pork containing 
trichinae is eaten these worms will develop within a few 
days in the intestines, from which they work their way in- 
to the muscular portions of the body. The female is from 
one-twelvth to one-eighth of an inch long and begins 
breeding six or seven days from the time of its maturity, 
and continues two or three weeks. The origin of the 
trichinae worm is unknown, except it is so found in the 
hog's flesh, from which, I think, the worms are communi- 
cated by way of the stomach and intestines. Perfect 
safety lies only in thoroughly cooking all swine meat, 
whether it is believed to be infected or not, whether boiled, 
baked, fried or stewed, let it be well cooked, and then there 
will be no danger. Never eat raw smoked ham, for there- 
in lies danger. Thoroughly cooking is the only preventive 
of this disease, for which there is no cure when the worms 
become numerous. Beef, mutton and poultry are not in- 
fested with these worms, called trichinae. 



HOOVERS RECIPES. 129 

WOMAN, LABOR DELIVERY. 

It is related of children being born after ten full 
months of gestation, but these cases are very doubtful, for 
it is extremely difficult to know the exact period of con- 
ception. Legislation, however, has fixed the principle that 
child birth may take place the two hundred and ninety- 
ninth day of pregnacy. It is my confirmed opinion that 
there would be much less danger in cases of confinement if 
they were intrusted altogether to females. No doubt'one- 
half of the woman attended by men are delivered before 
their proper time, and this is the reason why we see so 
many deformed children, and meet with so many females 
who have incurable complaints. If the business was trusted 
to aged midwives, they would give more time, and nature 
would have an opportunity to do its work, and if necessary 
advice might be had with more safety. 

When a Linseed Laxative is Required. 
When linseed oil is prescribed for a laxative for ani- 
mals, internally, it always means raw oil. Boiled linseed 
oil contains litharge, which is a deadly poison. Raw oil 
is of a more light color; and should be used for medicine 
in place of the boiled. 

WASHING INFANT CHILDREN. 

Wash the new-born infant with soft or rain water, 
and castile or glycerine soap. Powder with wheat flour 
starch. Never wash the clothes or napkins in soda. It 
causes breaking out. Lead is poison. Clothing should 



130 HOOVERS RECIPES. 

frequently be changed, and have the*clothing well Jaired. 
The head ought to be kept cool, and the clothes kept loose. 
Should there be no mother's milk, then give milk made 
warm, from but one cow only. Give it to suckle every 
one and a half hours. For the first month be regular. The 
stomach requires rest. A substitute for milk is to boil good 
bread in water for a few hours, then put in a small lump 
of sugar. A child ought to be weaned at about two [hun- 
dred and sixty days. After that the breast will do more 
harm than good. Do not vaccinate a child before it is 
weaned. Nursing mothers should avoid such food as rich 
pastry. 

Woman with Child, whether^with Male or Female 
Child. 

Write the names both of the father and of the wife 
proper, also the name of the month in which she was con- 
ceived. Then add all the letters together, divide by 7. 
and if the remainder is uneven it will bs a boy ; if even, 
then look for a girl. 

WASHING CALICOS, NOT TO FADE. 

Infuse 3 gills of salt in 4 quarts of boiling water, put 
the calicos in while hot, and leave till cold. In this way 
the colors are rendered permanent, and will not fade by 
subsequent washing. 



HOOVERS RECIPES. 131 

WHITES OR FLOUR ALBUS, TO CURE. 

Take 30 or 35 drops of balsam of copabia in a teaspoon 
of sweet wine. Sweeten to your taste, and take 3 times a 
day, 1 hour before mealtime. Keep on using for 3 or 4 
weeks. Do not use any coffee or tea, but use milk if you 
can, while using the medicine. 

WENS, HOW TO CURE. 

Take the yelks of 3 eggs and beat them up, then add 
as much fine salt as will make a salve, and apply a plaster 
to the wen every 10 hours. It will cure without trouble. 

When Parents will Murder Their Own Children. 
In the following way they try to console themselves, 
and yet the fond mother would think her young infant 
would starve to death, if it did not eat at least a teacupf ul 
of crackers and stuff. Is it strange, under such circum- 
stances, that its stomach is so often out of order, and that 
it wants a little magnesia or catnip tea to cure it of this 
trouble? the only wonder is that such children do not all 
die. If they had not vital power they would all have to 
perish. Put all the blame upon the shoulders of Divine 
Providence, when, in reality, the parents alone are respon- 
sible for the death of their own children. Indeed it is 
high time, in this age of time, that parents should be 
taught that the great and good Creator holds them strictly 
accountable for the preservation of the health of their chil- 
dren. The mother involves the greatest responsibility and 



132 HOOVERS RECIPES. 

the greatest and noblest duties, and if not qualified by 
physical, mental or moral training and education to dis- 
charge her duties properly, hard indeed will be the fate of 
such unfortunate offspring in time to come. 

WOMB FALLING EITHER WAY. 

If the womb falls forward upon the bladder and 
towards the pubies, it constitutes anteversion. In this case 
the top or fundus of the womb is turned forward to the 
bladder, and the mouth towards the rectum. When the 
womb falls over backwards, between the rectum and the vagi- 
na, it is said to be retroverted. In this case the fundus is 
turned toward the rectum, and the neck toward the bladder. 
If the womb is anteverted, and turned upon itself, it is an 
teflexed ; and when retroverted and turned upon itself, it 
is called retroflexion. These displacements may occur sud- 
denly or gradually, causing great distress. The usual 
symptoms are costiveness and straining at the stool, fre- 
quent urination, painful menstruation, pains in the lumbar 
regions, and down the limbs, neuralgia, hysterics and nerv- 
ous debility. It is a serious affection, and should receive 
early attention and proper treatment. Such important 
diseases should, however, be confided to the care and di- 
rection of a competent physician, through which great re- 
lief may be expected, if well understood, otherwise time 
and money will be lost, which is most frequently the case. 
Good care is the best of medicine in these cases. 



HOOVERS RECIPES. 133 

Why Some People Most Always Have Their Mouth 
Open. 
The reason that some persons most always have their 
mouths open is because the navel cord is cut and tied too 
far away from the body. With new-born infants the na- 
vel cord should not be tied more than one and a half inches 
away from the body. One and a quarter inches would be 
best. This is worth while to take notice on the above 
lines. Skillful practice will, in course of time, prove the 
above to be true. 

WARTS, TO KILL. 

Take cromic acid, having first the wart cut down to 
the quick, then put the acid on. Let soak awhile, then 
scrape the wart and put more acid on. 

WHOOPING COUGH REMEDY. 

Take wild ginger root bruised 2 ounces ; alcohol \ a 
pint ; water J a pint. Simmer all this over a slow fire for 
fifteen minutes, then add, while hot, 15 grains of powdered 
cochineal ; white sugar J pound ; carbonate of potash 3 
drachms. Let stand till cold, then strain, press out and 
add 2 ounces of wine of epicac. Dose, 1 to 2 teaspoons- 
ful according to age, and repeat according to circumstan- 
ces. This is a good remedy for whooping cough. 

WHOOPING COUGH.A REMEDY FOR. 

Take salts of tartar 20 grains ; cochineal 10 grains ; 
loaf sugar 1 ounce. Dissolve in three gills of water- 



134 HOOVER'S RECIPES. 

Dose, for a child 4 to 5 years old, 1 teaspoonful 3 times a 
day, and also a little when the cough is troublesome. 

WHOOPING COUGH, NEW REMEDY. 

Take 1 gill of water, dissolve 1 scruple of salt of tar- 
tar in it, and add to this 10 grains cochineal. Sweeten it 
with sugar ; give to an infant \ teaspoonful 4 times a day, 
two years old J teaspoonful, and more according to age. 




INDEX. 



Introduction 3 

Asthma and dropsy 5 

Asthma, to cure 5 

Asthma pills 5 

Asthma elixir 6 

Ague or chills and fever, to cure 6 

Adhesive or sticking plaster 6 

Ague and fever, a warranted cure 6, 7 

Anodine balsam 7 

Anatomy of the brain and nerves at birth 7, 8 

Asthma, a cure for 8 

Alterative, a valuable syrup 8, 9 

An alterative powder for the liver 9 

Asthma and asthmatic cough remedy 9 

Ancient worm elixir 9, 10 

Ancient soothing syrup 10 

An old bunion cure 10 



INDEX. 

Cure for a hide bound horse 10 

For working the blood downwards and promoting the 

menses 10 

Kemedy for weak eyes 11 

Alterative or liver powder 11 

A work shop 11, 12 

Anteversion of the womb 12 

Ancient cholera balsam 12, 13 

Appetite and digestion, to increase 13 

Airing featherbeds 13,14 

A key to replace 14 

Balsam apple liniment 14 

Bunions, to cure 14 

Balsam for internal bleeding from lungs, stomach or 

nose 15 

Boils and sores of all kinds, to cure 15 

Bleeding at the stomach 15 

Baldness, to cure 15 

Beef gall liniment 16 

Bateman's drops 16 

Breast elixir for cough and ulcers of the lungs 16 

Blood, an extra purifyer for women 16, 17 

Burns, to cure 17 

Burns and sores — a lead salve 17 



INDEX. 

Blood purifying tincture 17 

Burn, by fire or heat, to cure 18 

Breasts, sore, on a woman , 18 

Broken china or glassware cement • 18 

Bread, an explanation of 18, 19 

Bald heads, and why so 19,20 

Beards, why some men cannot raise 20, 21 

Boots, the best French polish for 21 

Bright' s disease 21 

Bitters, elegant for dyspepsia 2l 

Blood, to make and how to purify 21 

Burns, to cure 22 

Bassilicon ointment for chilblains 22 

Botts in horses to cure 22 

Balsam, life essence 22,23 

Breast, for a pain in 23 

Bound or tight chest 23 

Balsam of honey for a cough 23 

Blackberry cordial for diarrhoea or flux 23, 24 

Bowel complaint, a sure cure for 24 

Bleeding from the lungs, to cure 24 

Blistering plaster, to make 24 

Buckwheat cakes to make 25 

Bread, general remarks on 25, 26 



INDEX. 

Baking yeast to make 26 

Bees, how to smoke 26 

Breakfast cake , 26, 27 

Beats of the pulse 27 

Black varnish for coal buckets 27 

Botts and colic in horses 27 

Butter making, how to 28 

Black spot, to make on a white horse 28 

Chronic rheumatism and gout, to cure 28 

Cholera, diarrhoea and vomiting 28, 29 

Corns and warts, to cure 29 

Cement to patch cisterns 29 

Colic, bilious, to cure 29 

Cholera, in hogs, to cure 29, 30 

Consumption in the stomach to cure 30 

Cough on the stomach or lungs 30 

Cholera and liver complaints 30 

Cough syrup for the lungs 30, 31 

Corrosive liniment 31 

Corns and warts, to take out 31 

Currant worms, to kill 31 

Coughs, colds, and consumption 31, 32 

Celebrated eye water, to make 32 

Colds, chills and erysipelas 32 



INDEX- ' 

Children's sore mouth remedy 32 

Certain cure for dropsy 32 

Catarrh remedy 33 

Cough, in a heating fever 33 

Cleansing and healing wounds and ulcers 33 

Causes of the decaying of teeth 33, 34 

Clap or burn, to cure 34 

Cure for diabetes 34 

Cure for small pox 34 

Chocolate cake, to make 35 

Cure for tetter and ringworm 35 

Coles d iuretic drops 35 

Children, overfeeding them 35, 36 

Cure for, ringworm and tetter 36 

Cancer, a cure for 36 

Croup, remedy for ,.36, 37 

Corns, to cure 37 

Cows' sore teats, for 37 

Cake frosting, to make 37 

Colic a good remedy for 37 

Cough remedy and cure 38 

Cure for consumption 38 

Colic or hysterics of the mother 38 

Children's and babies sore mouth 38 



INDEX. 

Carminative powder 39 

Cure for a sore mouth 39 

Cure for eruptions on the face 39 

Cholera remedy and to prevent cholera 39, 40 

Cholera, extract of logwood for 40 

Cascarilla and its use 40 

Chafing of the skin. 40 

Cholera, a never-failing remedy for 40 

Cordial for summer complaints 41 

Chronic rheumatism, to cure 41 

Colic a direct cure for 41 

Colds and coughs or hoarseness 41, 42 

Cough syrup, an excellent one 42 

Cough, a favorite remedy 42 

Compound spice bitters, to make 42, 43 

Cows to calve after night or in day time, if desired 43 

Collars, if new, how to fit on a horse 43 

Coffee cakes, to make 44 

Corns on toes, to remedy 44 

Currant stalks, to raise and not to sprout 44 

Croup, certain cure for 44 

Children, good instructions for 44, 45 

Cough syrup, a specific ...45 

Colic, in children and babies 46 



INDEX. 

Cement, Spanish, to make 46 

Condition powder, the champion 46 

Condition powder, to make 46 

Cranberries, how to cook 47 

Corns, a positive cure for 47 

Cough syrup, French 47 

Children or babies, how to carry in the arms 47, 48 

Chapped hands, remedy, and sore lips 48 

Colic, in horses ■ 48 

Catamenia, or menses from puberty to the turn of 

life 48, 49, 50 

Chapped hands, cure for 50 

Distemper in horses 50 

Dysentery cordial 50, 51 

Dropsy, to cure 51 

Diarrhoea remedy 51 

Diarrhoea, a remedy for 51 

Dysentery syrup 51 

Dropsy, a cure for 52 

Diptheria, to cure. 52 

Dyspepsia medicine 52 

Dyspepsia, an infallible cure 52, 53 

Dress, an influence on the lungs 53 

Do please be on your guard 53, 54 



INDEX. 

Dyspepsia bread, to make 54 

Diarrhoea, European cure for 55 

Dysentery and flux remedy 55 

Diabetes, kidney and gravel complaints 55 

Deafness, a cure for 55 

Dyspepsia lye, a valuable remedy 56 

Death on vermin in plants, or lice on cattle 56 

Durable whitewash, to make 56 

Deafness to cure 56 

Diarrhoea and cramp in the stomach, great cure 56, 57 

Diseased condition of men 57 

Dropsy, Persian remedy 57, 58 

Erysipelas, Chills and sore breasts of women 58 

Deformities in children, why so 58, 59, 60 

Eyes, sore, ointment for 60 

Elixir for a weak stomach 60 

Eyes, weakness, to cure 60, 61 

Ear ache, to cure 61 

Eyes, sore or inflamed 61 

Eyes, sore and weak 61 

Fever wash liniment 61, 62 

Females laboring under the whites 62 

Fistula, Pollevil and warts, to cure 62 

Females that are weakly 62, 63 



INDEX. 

Founder in a horse 63 

Fevers of all kinds in general 63 

Felons, to cure 63, 64 

Felon, an effectual cure for 64 

Fe male doctors' shrewdness 64 

Farmers' maxims, to follow 64, 65 

Farms, how to make them poor 65, 66 

Female external organs, secret 66, 67, 68 

Fecundation or impregnation 68, 69 

Topes' fever powders, to make 69 

For the whites of womem 70 

Favorite magic oil 70 

Gravel, kidney and urine complaints 70 

German inflamatory liniment 70, 71 

Gravel and kidney complaints 71 

Gravel to cure 71 

Gentle physic, to make 71 

Gravel, a sure cure for 71, 72 

Gravel, a sovereign remed for 72 

Ginger beer or pop 72 

Giving a view of the heart 72, 73 

Giving the action of the human heart 73, 74 

Green healing salve 74 

German cough tincture -74 



INDEX, 

Galls on horses, to cure 74 

Gonorrhoea, a positive cure for 75 

Glassware, to keep from breaking 75 

Hair dye, to make 75 

Heaves in horses, to cure 75 

Hiccough, to cure 75, 76 

Hemorrhages from the lungs or flooding in childbirth... 76 

Hysterics in women 76 

Hogs or swine, a treatise on 76, 77 

Hysteric and rheumatic tincture, 77 

Hoarsness, a remedy for 77 

Heart disease, remedy 77 

Hip disease and sweaney 78 

Healing plaster, a particular one 78 

Hearing, how to improve 78 

Heart trembling, to cure 78 

Healing plaster, poor man's 79 

Healing salve , Kussian 79 

Heel ball, to make 79 

Healing salve, common black 79 

Handkerchief perfume to make 79, 80 

Hemerrhoids or piles to cure 80 

Horses forming tumor, to cure 80 

Hogs, when imported 80, 81 



IhDEX. 

House plants to keep from freezing 811 

Horse crib biting, to cure 81 

Human life, origin of it 81, 82' 

Head, brain and nerve diseases, why so 82, 83, 84 

Horses having colic 84 

Hair of little girls, how injured 84 

How to set your beadsteads 85> 

Hair, to keep from turning gray 85* 

Hams, when smoked to keep 85< 

How to keep lamps from smoking 85, 8ft 

Honey balsam, to make..... 8(> 

How to manage a fainting person 86> 

Hoof boun d, to cure , 86 ; 

Hair, to prevent from falling 86, 87 

Heaves in horses a champion remedy 87 

Healthy babies, how to have 87, 88 

Heifers, dried up too soon 88 

Horseshoe tailsmen, mystery 88, 89 

Indigestion, remedy for 89 

Infant's, milk for, to give 89, 90 

Inability to hold urine 90 

Inflammation, external cure for 91 

Itch, remedy for 91 

Inflamed, sore and swollen neck 91 



INDEX. 

Indian pain killer to make 91 

Indigestion, nervousness and sour stomach 91 

Interm arriage of relatives . 92 

Jaundice, a cure for 92 

Jaundice, to cure, goose remedy 93 

Jaundice, a positive cure 93 

Lice on cattle, to destroy 93 

Lime water, to make 93 

Liniment for the nerves 93, 94 

Liniment of beef galls 94 

Long standing complaints, to cure, particularly inside....94 

Liniment a simple one 94, 95 

The liver, and explanation thereof 95 

Liquid glue how to make 95, 96 

Lost appetite and for dyspepsia 96 

Leucorrhea or whites, a remedy for 96 

Liniment for stiff joints 96, 97 

Liniment a never failing one 97 

Living drops, how to make 97 

Light in a sick room, why so 97, 98 

Liniment, superior to all 98 

Leather, to preserve water proof 98, 99 

Liquid blueing for cloth 99 

Mind the food that we eat 99, 100 



INDEX. 

Milk scab in children, to cure 100 

Mortification in men, to cure 100 

Mortification organgreen in horses 100 

Mother's drops, valuable 101 

Mother's old cough remedy 101 

Marble stones to clean 101 

Mother's food, and for pregnant women 101, 102 

Mother's fault for children using liquor 102 

Magnetic ointment, to make 102, 103 

Moths, remedy against 103 

Men's private lines, to learn 103, 104, 105 

Mare, to tell whether with horse or mare foal 105 

Night sweats, to cure 105 

Nervous spasms and sexual intercourse 105 

Neuralgia pills to make 106 

Night sweats, an old remedy 106 

Night sweats, to cure, after fever and in consumption. .106 
Nerve stomach wine, and to bring tardy menses on 

106, 107 

Neuralgia, an internal remedy for 107 

Nervous disease, to allay 107 

Ointment for piles 107 

One's appetite, how to take away 108 

Oil of cream, for piles 108 



IJSDEX. 

On the abuse of reproductive organs 108, 109 

Ointment, stramonium, to make 109, 110 

Old vermifuge remedy 110 

Opodeldoc, to make 110 

Oil lamps in a bedroom 110 

Orifice of the vagina... 110, 111 

Old bitters, to strengthen 111,112 

Pectoral drops, to make 112 

Pleurisy, a cure for 112 

Paper paste, to make 112 

Piles, anew remedy for 112, 113 

Piles, tumors, swelling and pains 113 

Paregoric elixir, to make 113 

Poison, to cure 113 

Powerful alterative to make 113 

Pork or swine eating, disease of the blood... 114, 115, 116 

Polish for stoves, to make 116 

Painful menstruation, or woman's tincture 116 

Piles and gravel, to cure 117 

Peaches, how to can 117 

Scratches in horses, to cure 117 

Sweaney in horses, to cure 117 

Silverware, to clean 118 

Salt rheum, to cure 118 



INDEX. 

Sunburn and chapped hands 118 

Sweaney in horses, to cure 118 

Saturni ointment, to make 119 

Sour stomach, to cure 119 

Sore motfth of confined women 119 

Stomach and digestion, an explanation of 119,120 

Sheep, a few lines on sheep 120 

Sheep and cattle, to prevent jumping 120 

Sour stomach to remedy 120 

Straw hats to whiten 120 

Silver plating fluid to make 121 

Sure cure for tape worm 121 

Shingles, number of to cover a roof 121 

Snoring in sleep, to cure 121, 122 

Summer complaints, remedy 122 

Science condition powder .122 

Silvering powder, to make 122 

Swelled bags of cows 122, 123 

Stomach acid, to destroy 123 

Sickness, Falling palsy and epilepsy 123 

Swollen and hard breasts of women 123 

Sweating powder, to make 123 

Swelling at the private parts 124 

Sponge cake, how to make 124 



IJSDEX. 

Suppressed menstruation remedy 124 

Scurvey or sore mouth, wash for 124 

Scratches on horses, to cure 125 

To cure warts and corns ,..125 

Talking nurses, caution .....125 

The uterus or womb illustrated 125, 126 

The ovaries and egg vessels 126, 127 

Tinware to clean 127 

To remove grease from clothing 127 

Worms discovered in men's flesh 128 

"Woman, labor delivery 129 

When a liuseed laxative is required 129 

Washing infant children 129,130 

Woman with child, whether with male or female child.. 130 

Washing calicos, not to fade 130 

Whites or flour albus to cure 131 

Wens, how to cure 131 

When parents will murder their own children 131, 132 

Womb falling either way 132 

Why some people most always have their mouth open.. 133 

Warts to kill 133 

Whooping cough remedy 133 

Whooping cough, a remedy for 133, 134 

Whooping cough, new remedy 134 



<\ v * 






v V 

V 







^>V 



V 









V 



\ 
















%$ 









v 0o 






^ 






W 



vO c> 















<J 
























% ,< 








































































LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




013 514 838 6 



