CIHM 
Microfiche 
Series 
(Monographs) 



ICIVIH 

Collection de 
microfiches 
(monographies) 




Canadian Institute for Historical Microreproductions / Institut canadien de microreproductions historiques 



(d^onnn 








Technical and Bibliographic Notes / Notes techniques et bibliographiques 



The Institute has attempted to obtain the best original 
copy available for filming. Features of this copy which 
may be bibliographically unique, which may alter any of 
the images in the reproduction, or which may 
significantly change the usual method of filming are 
checked below. 







D 

D 
D 

D 
D 
D 
D 
D 



i/ 



Coloured covers / 
Couverture de couleur 

Covers damaged / 
Couverture endommag6e 

Covers restored ard/or laminated / 
Couverture restaur^e et/ou pelliculee 

Cover title missing / Le titre de couverture manque 

Coloured maps / Cartes g6ographiques en couleur 

Coloured Ink (i.e. other than blue or black) / 
Encre de couleur (I.e. autre que bleue ou noire) 

Coloured plates and/or illustrations / 
Planches et/ou illustrations en couleur 

Bound with other material / 
Rell6 avec d'autres documents 

Only edition available / 
Seule Edition disponible 

Tight binding may cause shadows or distortion along 
interior margin / La reliure serree peut causer de 
I'ombre ou de la distorsion le long de la marge 
int6rieure. 

Blank leaves added during restorations may appear 
within the text. Whenever possible, these have been 
omitted from filming / Use peut que certaines pages 
blanches ajout6es lors d'une restauration 
apparaissent dans le texte, mais, lorsque cela ^tait 
possible, ces pages n'ont pas t;t6 film^es. 



L'Institut a microfilme le meilleiir exemplaire qu'il lui a 
ete possible de se procurer. Les details de cet exem- 
plaire qui sont peut-etie uniques du point de vue bibli- 
ographique, qui peuvent modifier une image reproduite. 
ou qui peuvent exiger une modification dans la m6tho- 
de normale de filmage sont indiqu6s ci-dessous. 

Coloured pages / Pages de couleur 

\l/\ Pages damaged / Pages endommag6es 

□ Pages restored and/or laminated / 
Pages restaur6es et/ou peilicul6es 

Pages discoloured, stained or foxed / 
Pages d^color^es, tachet^es ou piqu^es 

I I Pages detached / Pages d6tach6es 

h/\ Showthrough / Transparence 

r~7] Quality of print varies / 



n 



D 



Quality in^gale de I'impression 

Includes supplementary material / 
Comprend du materiel supp!6mentaire 

Pages wholly or partially obscured by errata slips, 
tissues, etc., have been refilmed to ensure the best 
possible image / Les pages totalement ou 
partiellement obscurcies par un feuillet d'errata, une 
pelure, etc., ont 6t6 film6es k nouveau de faqion k 
obtenir la meilleure image possible. 

Opposing pages with varying colouration or 
discolourations are filmed twice to ensure the best 
possible image / Les pages s'opposant ayant des 
colorations variables ou des decolorations sont 
film6es deux fois afin d'obtenir la moilleure image 
possible. 



7 



Additional comments / 
Commentaires suppl6mentaires: 



Copy has manuscript annotations. 

Cette cople a des annotations raanuscrltes. 



This item is filmed at the reduction ratio checked below / 

Ce document est film^ au taux cie reduction indique ci-dessous. 



10x 








14x 








18x 








22x 








26x 








30x 


























/ 



























12x 



16x 



20x 



24x 



28x 



32x 



Th« copy filmed h«r« has bMin r«produc«d thanks 
to tha ganarosity of: 



L'axamplaira filmA fut raproduit grAca k la 
g^n^rositi da: 



Private Collection 



Collection privee 



Tha imagas appaaring hara ara tha bast quality 
possibia considaring tha condition and lagibility 
of tha original copy and in kaaping with tha 
filming contract spacificationa. 



Las imagas suivantas ont Ati raproduitas avac la 
plus grand soin, compts tanu da la condition at 
da la nattat* da l'axamplaira film*, at 90 
conformity avac las conditions du contrat da 
filmaga. 



Original copias in printad papar covars ara flimad 
baginning with tha front covar and anding on 
tha last paga with a printad or illuatratad impraa- 
sior, or tha back covar whan appropriata. All 
othar original copias ara filmad baginning on tha 
first paga with a printad or illuatratad impras- 
sion, and anding on tha last paga with a printad 
or illuatratad imprassion. 



Tha laat racordad frama on aach microficha 
shall contain tha symbol — ^^ (moaning "CON- 
TINUED"), or tha symbol V (maar.ing "END"), 
whichavar appliaa. 



Laa axamplairas originaux dont la couvartura an 
papiar ast imprimia sont filmis an commanpant 
par la pramiar plat at an itfrminant soit par la 
darniira paga qui comporta una amprainta 
d'imprassion ou d'illustration, soit par la second 
plat, salon la eas. Tous las autras axamplairas 
originaux sont filmis an commandant par la 
pramiAra paga qui comporta una amprainta 
d'imprassion ou d'illustration at 9n tarminant par 
la darniira paga qui comporta una taiia 
amprainta. 

Un daa symbolas suivants apparaitra sur la 
darniira imaga da chaqua microficha, salon la 
cas: la symbols -^ signifia "A SUIVRE", la 
symbols V signifia "FIN". 



Maps, platas, charts, ate, may ba filmad at 
different reduction ratios. Those too large to be 
entirely included in one exposure are filmed 
beginning in the upper Isft hand corner, left to 
right and top to bottom, as many frames as 
required. The following diagrama illustrate the 
method: 



Lea cartas, planches, tableaux, etc., peuvent etre 
filmAs A das taux da reduction diffirents. 
Lorsque le document est trop grand pour atre 
raproduit en un seul cliche, il est film* i partir 
do I'angla supArieur gauche, de gauche i droite. 
at de haut en bas. en prenant la nombre 
d'imegea nAcassaira. Las diagrammas suivants 
illustrent la mAthoda. 



1 


2 


3 




1 2 3 

4 5 6 



MICROCOPY RESOLUTION TEST CHART 

(ANSI and ISO TEST CHART No. 2) 



1.0 



I.I 



15,6 



m 

Ki 
U 



■ 32 
13A 
■M 




1^ 

2.0 
1.8 




A /APPLIED IfVMGE Inc 



1653 Eos'. Main Street 
Roctiester. New York U609 
(716) 482 - 0300 - Phone 
(716) 288-5989 -Fox 



USA 





m 




■ 
1 

m 


S - 

I'll 



We make tine best line of 
Cook:ing and Heating 

STOVES AND RANGES. 



Sample and Sales Rooms: 

Cor. of St. Peter ani Craig Sts., Cor. of iDspector and William Sts. 

AND 524 CRAIG STREET. 



W. Clendinnkno & Son, 



/7-f^ 



Z% 







5. 



Its. 



^, 



REMEMBER! 

that the largest, best and 
cheapest stock of 

CAEPETS, 
OILaOTHS, 
CURTAmS, 

and kindred goods from 

the works of the best 

manufacturers, 

can always be found at 
THE OLD STAND, 

JAS. BA7US & SOU, 

1837 NOTRE DAME STREET. 

ESTABLISHED I8S9. 

Special Facilities for Handling 
I-arge Contracts. 



HUGMAN 
NORTON 



Carpets, 

Oilcloths, 
Curtains, &c. 



203 ST. JAMES STREET, 

Cor. St. Peter St. 



Ball Programmes 
Menu Cards 
Invitation Cards 
Papeteries 
Programme' Pencils 



Wedding Stationery 



Boxed Stationery 
Dinner Name Cards 
Memorial Cards 
Visiting Cards 
Programme Tassels 



Relief ^tHmping a specialty, crests, monograms AND 
ADDRESSES, all styles and colors. 

233 ST. JAMES STREET, MONTREAL. 



;i -i 






i , 



DAWSON BROTHERS, m 

/ii»lislic §lafioi)ei»s, 
Desire to direct attention to their very large and well-assorted stock of 

ELEGANT AND FASHIONABLE STATIONERY, 

and wish to make special mention of the following articles, of which 
they can guarantee the correctness and lateness of the styles : 



' I 1 



»* 



" n 



■4 
.3 



ii<M' 



■jMiiiii 



mmmiiliiiiittitimmmmM 



.SNOW ALL UEK B7 TBESE mSElTTS - 



That the SOAP possessing the best Cleaning 
qualities, and the most economical and labor-saving, is 



P 



It is impossible to manufacture better Soap than fhe 
above. " GIL T EDGE " has invariably given 
the most thorough satisfaction wherever used, 
and its sales are GONSiPANiPLY INGI^EASING. 



Sold by all first-class Grocers, but manufactured 

only by 

W. STRACHAN & CO. 

36, 88 and 40 Jaoqnea Cartter St., Montreal, 



WONDERFUL TEA. 



# 



FRASER. VIGER & GO'S 

Bpeaya^t Congou Tea, ■ 35c. per lb. 
(JhoicB Japan Tea, ■ ■ 30c. pei" lb. 



Italian Warehouse, 

199 ST. JAMES STREET, MONTREAL. 



JOHN CO\VAN, , 

MANUFACTURER OF 

Liq. and Monate of Ammonia, ^. 

^ AND AGENT FOR THE ^ 

BROCKVILLE CHEMICAL AHD SDPERPHOSPHATES CO. 



OIL OF VITRIOL. 
MURIATIC ACID. 
NITRir JD. 
TIN ChYSTALS. 



(LIMITBE)). 

TIN SPIRITS. 
NITRO-MURIATE OF TIN. 
NITRATE OF IRON. 
MURIATE OF IRON. 



IRON LIQUOR. 

OXY-MURIATE OF ANTIMONY. 
GLAUBER'S SALT. 
RED LIQUOR. 



3 DALHOIJSIE STREKT, 
P.O. Box 319. MONTREAL. 



HAHTSHOEir or AMMONIA 

-Hie FOR FAMILY USE Jie-*- 
18 STRICTLY PURE. 

For the Toilet— Use about 20 to 30 drops to a basin of water. 
For the Bath— About a tnl)lespoonful. 

For Shampooing -A teaspoonful to a quart of water, adding a 
little suap to make a lather. 

For CleaniiinK Jewelry, H if r BriiMli€»4, CoinbH, Ac. 

use a teaspuonful to a pint of water. 

To remove ClreaHe and Ntaliis from SHUh, I.aces, Woollen 

CaOO«lN, Carpets, d^C., moisten the spots with Hartshorn and rinse 
with cold water. 

For General House Cleaning, Wood-work, Walls 
that are Painted, Crockery, Silver and Tin Ware, 

dissolve a little soap in a pail of water, then add fiom two to five tablespoon- 
fuls of Hartjjhorn-Ammonia. 

For Disinfecting and Cleansing Badly ftioiled Cloth, 

add from two to tive tablespouiifals to a pail of cold water. Soak and wash 
in the usual way. 

Flannel and other Woollen Goods require but one tablespoon- 
ful to a pail of water, and should be rubbed but slightly. 

In the liaundry— A winei;lassful will do an ordinary family wash- 
ing, and can be used cither in soaking or rubbing out the Clothes, adding half 
thequantity of soap usually used. A little experience will satisfy one how 
indispensable Hartshorn is as a cleaner. 

The Accountant, the Tradesman, the Workingman. 

whose hands are dauDed with Ink, Dyestuflfs, Tar, Paint, Kust, ike, will find 
this Hartshorn-Ammonia invaluable in quickly removing the stains, leaving 
the skin soft, smooth and healthy. 

MANUFACTURED AND GUARANTEED PURE BY 

JOHN COWAN. 3 Dalhousie St., Montreal. 



M 



f 



I iiairTli il»i 



ST. LEON. 

MIRACULOUS POWER. 

Flashes from Practitioners and Enninent Men. 

This rare native w.iter possesses curative and restorative propertieH, both for external 
and internal application. Famous.-fKov. J. Bake!* Lowards, Public Analyst. 

The fact is inconte»table-these mineral waters prove more valuable than any other 
remedy.— O. E. Walton, M.n. 

Have u«a St. Leon for '"di«-^on w^th^.ar^^^^^^^^ .j.^^,„^^ 

1 recommend St. Leon (or '"digestion. Con^.ipation.^or^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^^^^ 

■ Bon'., Muscle, flesh and blood-nothinz on the Kuropean continent '» 'U^!^' 'his 
builder up of poisoned, wasted humanity ; St. Leon is to such b>.ttcr than goUl.- Ok. Welch. 
St. Leon cures Liver Complaint, Mumps or Chills.— Dr. S. (1. Paqi'in- 

ST. LKON WATBR CO. 

54 VICTORIA SQUARE. MONTREAL. 
A. POULIN, Manager, 



C WROUGHT STEEL 
oo\ing I^ange^, 

For family USE. 

Convenient, 

Economical, 

and Durable. 



Fm $35.00 to $100.00. 



GEO, R. PROW SE, 

224 ST. JAMES STEEET, 



W 

s 

THE 

Chur< 



TEES & CO. 

Maiinfactnrers of 

OffiDeDe^h 1 

lANDJ 

Funei'al 
FuMtui^e 

300 ST, JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



GAI 



^pe 



B 



f 



i. 



B 



T 



Ulll I IC 2. rn 1824 nOTRE DIME STREET 

^^I^LI^ Ot wUa Ne«r MoQiLL Street. 



^ PIAMOS A NP ORGA WS 



_.^!^». 



1^ 



Sole Agents for Knabe. Williams, Newcombe. Bell, Baus. &c 

THE BELL ORGANS (over 75.000 In use*, the acknowledged 

best Reed Organ In the World. 

Churches supplied at Wholesale Rates, which is a little over Cost Price. 



E. C. MOUNT & CO. 

GAS AND STEAM FITTERS, AND ROOFERS, 

16 VICTORIA Square. 

TELEPHONE No. 1:265. 

SpBCialtieS ; hot water heating, speaking tubes, 

^^ !LLECTRIC BELLS 

FITTED UP IN A SCIENTIFIC MANNER AND AT MODERATE COST. 




!to M\nt$ 



GO TO 

fll^MSTI^ONG'S, Victoria Square. 

m Ctopest Place for Baiiy Sleigls dnJ Carriages. 

SEE OUR MANTLE BEDS. 

G, AEMSTEO»& & CO,, FTOEEAL DIBECTOSa 



I 



I 



Hi 

In 



1 



TO THE LADIES. 



-■ «>» ■ 



For Home^Made Bread, 

Biscuits, Rolls, Griddle 

and Bt.ick:whieat Calces, 



Flei^chmann \ Co'? 
Unrivalled 



USE ONLY 




FRKSH EVKRY DAV. 

Factory Depot: 

70 ST. JL3iTa?OI3SrE STI5.EET. 

FOR SALE EVERYWHERE. 



THAT QUEEN OF PERFUMES 



FOR THK 
HA.NUKKRCHIKF. 



A sinKli' <lrop will per- 
I'lmie II hniidkt>rrliii'f or 
iVi'ii n iiiom. 



A llinnini't 111' KxcpilslU' 

nil liiii'BN of Odin, 

Uistilliil lioMi NatiUiil 

Flowers. 



ALLEN'S LUNG BftLSAAM. 

Thi! fnvorlw Himsi-liold Ri-mfily for the I'liri' of 

COUGHS. COLDS, ( KOUl". CONSUMPTION, AND ALL 

THROAT aNU Ll'NCJ TROUBLKS. 

Price g5c»a0c» and 81.00 lyr Bottle. 






I The liost Btlightful, 
Selicate tind Lasting 
Ftifsme of the Sa; ! 






.Ve;->' '^ 



'■v;^-;,-'^^ 

^a"'" V i^"" 




THF, LOTUS OF THK 
NILE, whUli ralHcs iw 
lovely hoati above the 
wftfi'r iif Luke Menialet 
iind oil the iiinrKiii of tlie 
Ulver Nile, tms bBt-u cjtll- 
I'd " fill' Ro8« Emlwlined 
of All ont F,Kypt. " Oil 
Ktt'Ht ri'ai;ttliiyH, fnignint 
Kurliiniln wvre formed of 
tills Rower, with whirh 
tlic> maidiMiB of vhii EiiBt 
iidoriicd thi'ir dark trt>n- 
seK. Thl»ih«»t(fly IwaiiH- 
fiil water lily 1« to Ik- 
found repre»em«d on nl- 
most hU of the amlent 
:i>c»Tiiirji*^rtt^ "f P-Kyr** '^"** 
Asia. 

Make your Iftdy trtoiiila 
happy iiy a gift of u 
bottle of the Lotus of the 
NUi'. 

SOLI) 

BY ALL DRUCdlSTS. 



OR AFTER Dinner PILLS, 

for enfppbled diffpstion, pro- 
duced from winit of proper 

.^^_^^_^_ secretion of the Gastric Juice. 

Tliey give immecUate relief In Dyspepsia 
and Indigestion. 



DIGESTIVE 
TABLETS 



DIRBCTIONS.— Take one or two pille immtdiatelv afttr 
tating or when tufering from Indigestion, 



_ Lump in tht 

'Throator FtatuUnee. '' 

8*npln nnt free. AddrcM the 

Davis & Uawrence Co., (Limited,) Montreal. 



aoLB tatvn. 



HIND'S HONEY AND ALMOND CREAM. 

DELICIOUS TO USE AND MOST Kl'^I'AJ'KWS 
For Chapped Hands, Fai-« and Lips Ro'<t«l' '"'.IS',''! ^^lr« 
Chatlnjc, Sunbuin, Burns, Scalds. Itihinu, * .''"''•« l',''','l"r^ 
NlDDles " HaiiK NailH," and nil iinploiHant i;ondltlon9 of 
ll ?Skhi of like ehiuaiter. Brittle Nails Hoftened in one 
night l-rleo FIFTY CENTS per Bottle Sold by Druitglsts. 

Palmo-Sulphur Soap, 

A MARVELLOUS HEALER OF ALL 

ERUPTIVE TROUBLES. 

It Clears the Skin and Beautifies the Complexion. 

MANUFACTUMD BY THE 

Davis & Lawrekcf Co., amm,) MosmxL 



c 



*• 



I 



I 



THE 



PEERLESS 

COOK BOOK 



H 



A. COIvIF>ILA.TION 

TESTED RECIPES, 



I 




i->UBLISHEU BY THE 



bodies of St. Jan^es ff)d^o(iisl €.\)uvo\,y 

St. Cathekine Street, 

MONTREAL. 






11 

n 



Babcock a Son, Book and Job Printers, 4 Bieury SiReET, 



ESTABLISHED 1850. 



HEINTZMAN & CO., 

TOK-On^TTO, 



MANUFACTURERS OF 




GRAND. SQUARE. AND UPRIGHT 

PIANOSh 

AWARDED 16 FIRST PRIZE MEDALS AND HIGHEST HONORS WHEREVER 

EXHIBITED, INCLUDING PHILADELPHIA, 1876, AND 

COLONIAL EXHIBITION, LONDON, Enq., 1886. 

I WING to their great durability, the HECINTZMA.N PlA-NOS 
_ ' are in use in all the prominent Kdiicational Institutions in the 
Dominion. Among those who have recently purchased HEINTZMA.N 
Pianos we are pleased to mention : 

The Oshawa Ladies' College. 
The Whitky Ladies' College. 
The Ladies' Seminary, ok St. John, N.B. 

OVER 800 HEINTZMAN PIANOS 

RECENTLY SOLD IN MONTREAL. 

Among the purchasers are 

Prof. J. H. Robinson, Organist St. Paul's Church. 
Prof. E. A. Hilton, Organist St. James Methodist Church. 
Prof. W. Reed. Organist American Presbyterian Church. 
Prof. Septimus Fraser. 

And other leading Musicians too numerous to mention. 



» <» ■ 



PRICES REASONABLE. Terms made to suit Purchasers. 
For Catalogues and other information apply to 

C. W. LINDSAY, 

SOLE AQKNX, 

2270 ST. CATHERINE STREET. 2270 



<«» — 



TESTIMONIAL FROM THE REV. JAS. KINES. 
(Late Pastor of the East-End Methodist Church.) 

Dear Sir, — In answer to your letter, would state I have owned a Heintzman 
Piano over seventeen years, and it has always given the best satisfaction; the tone and 
jetton are still in perfect condition. I have therefore a very high opinion of the Hkintzman 
Pianos, and would recommend them to intending purchasers. 

Yours truly, Khv. James Kinks. 



I 

. C 

plea 
But 
and 
and 

con 
Sue 
con 
mar 
thei 
Rec 
aim 
pra< 
if t 



Preface. 



11 



' 



i^O HE publication of a collection of reliable, well-tested 
4%^ Recipes needs no apology. Other books are made to 
. d^ amuse, instruct, or entertain, and they please or fail to 
please according to the varied intellectual tastes of the readers. 
But the subject of good Cookery is one of universal interest, 
and more than anything else has to do with the health, comfort 
and happiness of each member of the family circle. 

Every housekeeper remembers many annoying vexations 
consequent upon failures made by following unreliable Recipes. 
Such will appreciate a Cook Book to which they can turn with 
confidence, and will be able to enter fearlessly a path well 
marked by the footsteps of those who have passed often before 
them. Much care has been tf.ken to admit only well-tried 
Recipes, and, in the preparation of this little work, we have 
aimed not so much at the novel and elaborate as at the 
practical and trustworthy, and we confidently besi)eak success 
if the directions contained in it are carefully followed. 



: ;■• 



We may live without friends, we may live without books, 
But civilized man cannot live without cooks ; 
He may live without love— what is passion but pining? 
But where is the man who can live without dining?" 

. — Oiven Meredith. 



m\ 



W. H. SCROGGIE, 

IMPORTER OF 

Jfrench, (EngltBh nxtb Jlmaican 



DRY GOODS! 



2213 ST. CATHERINE STREET 



-AND- 



50 AHD 52 UNIVERSITY STREET. 

MONTREAL. 



J. PALMER & SON, 



IMPORTERS OF 



►:fl 






i-> 



perfumerjj \ FanciJ (qood?, 

MANUFACTURERS OF 

174:5 Notre Dame Street, 
MONTREAL 



Ladies' Hair (Dressing, and all kinds of Hair 
Work, done in a superior manner. 



SOUPS. 



To Clarify Stock. — When, by accident, stock is not 
clear, put it into a stew pan, take off any scum as it rises, 
and let the rest boil. Take out half a pint of the stock and 
add it gradually to the whites of three eggs (previously 
whisked well in half a pint of cold water) ; then put the 
whisk into the stew pan, and keep the liquid well agitated 
■while you pour in the whites of egg and stock you have 
mixed ; let the whole nearly boil, and then take it from the 
fire. After a time, the whites will separate themselves, 
•when the whole should be passed through a clean fine cloth, 
and the stock should be clear. If not, repeat the process. 

Browning Soup. — Put two ounces of sugar in a stew 
pan, and let it melt slowly, stir with a wooden spoon, 
and when black add half a pint of cold water, and let it 
dissolve. If corked closely, this will keep for a long time. 
Burnt onions are also used for the purposes of browning. 
As a rule use this coloring matter very sparingly, as it is 
liable to flavor the soup. 

Oyster Soup. — Put down a shank of beef in a pot of 
cold water (the day before you wish to use it) with a little 
onidn. Allow it to boil slowly until the meat is like rags, 
strain into a crockery basin and set away till the next day. 
If properly done you will have a stiff jelly, from which 
remove all fat before using. When you wish to make your 
oyster soup, put your stock in a pot, season nicely with 
pepper and salt, and when it boils throw in your oysters 
and allow them merely to scald. 

Pea Soup. — Two lbs. split peas, boil until quite tender, 
strain through a colander, and add water to make a suitable 
thickness, boil for half an hour, season nicely with pepper, 
salt, and a little butter, catsup to taste. 



iHl 



:'l 



COOK'S FRIEND MM FOf DER, Mle ty W. D. IcLAREN. 



14 



PEERLESS COOK BOOK. 



Tomato Soup. — To one pt. canned or four large tomatoes 
add one qt. boiling water; when it boils, stir in one tea- 
poonful of soda, which will cause it to foam immediately. 
Then add one pt. sweet milk, salt, pepper, and butter to 
taste. Roll out three soda biscuits and put in. Allow the 
soup to come to a boil, and serve. 

Tomato Cream Soup. — Put one can of tomatoes on to 
stew for ten or fifteen minutes, boil one quart of milk, mix 
two tablespoonfuls of corn starch with a little cold milk, stir 
into the boiling milk and cook ten minutes. Put one tea- 
poonful baking soda into the tomatoes, stir well, then rub 
through a fine colander, add a teaspoonful of butter to the 
milk, then tlie tomatoes, pepper and salt to taste. 

Give one boil and serve immediately. 

Brown Bean Soup. — Two cups of beans, three quarts 
of water. Boil till the beans are soft. Then strain and 
mash through a colander. Put over the fire, and add 
pepper, salt, and a little butter. Before dishing put two 
tablespoonfuls of Worcester Sauce. After dishing slice in 
two lemons. P. The lemons may be omitted. 

Lobster Soup. — One pint of water, one pint of milk, one 
tablespoonful flour, a little pepper, one lobster. Boif water 
and milk together, add flour, then lobster. Let it boil up 
once and put a bit of butter in. Serve very hot. 

Vermicelli Soup. — Make the stork in the usual manner, 
by boiling shanks of beef or bones of beef, mutton, turkey 
or chicken, all day. Strain, and next morning skim the 
grease carefully off. Cut up whatever vegetables you wish 
to fla our your scup ,with — Cabbage, carrots, onions and 
celery ; brown these slowly in some of the dripping taken 
from the stock. Boil the vegetables for three hours in the 
stock and strain again. Then add vermicelli. Flavour 
with Hervey's Sauce, and boil about fifteen minutes. 



COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



TESTED RECIPES.— SOUPS. 



15 



Macaroni Soup.— Three ounces of macaroni, a piece of 
butter the size of a walnut, salt to taste, two quarts of clear 
stock. Throw the macaroni and butter into boiling water 
with a pinch of salt, and simmer for half an hour ; when it 
is tender, drain and cut it into thin rings and drop into 
boiling stock. Stew gently for fifteen minutes and serve. 

Sago Soup.— Five ounces of sago, two quarts of stock. 
Wash the sago in.bpiling water and add by degrees to the 
boiling stock, and simmer till the sago is entirely dissolved 
and forms a sort of jelly. The yolks of two eggs beaten up 
with a little cream previously boiled, and added at the 
moment of serving, much improves this soup. 

P. The stock must be nicely seasoned. 

Hare Soup.— Cut up a pair of hares into neat, small 
pieces ; take all the nicest bits and fry them a light brown. 
Have a pot of stock, and into it put the inferior pieces of 
the hare, two onions, a carrot, a head of celery, some parsley 
and thyme, a blade of mace, a clove or two, salt and pepper. 
Let this all boil till the meat falls off the bones, then pass it 
through a sieve. Put the soup back into the pot, use some 
of it to make gravy over the bits of hare in the frying-pan,, 
then turn contents of frying-pan into soup pot, let it simmer 
until the meat is tender, then slightly thicken the soup with 
a little brown flour. 

Ox-Tail Soup.— The day before the soup is wanted, take 
three ox-tails, cut them in pieces, and put on to fry in butter, 
first taking off all the fat ; let them brown well, then set away 
till next day. Take off all the grease that may be about 
them, and put to boil in about three quarts of water ; some 
salt, pepper and allspice to taste, from two to four onions, 
one carrot, one turnip, and one head of celery. Boil four or 
five hours, lift out the meat, strain, choose some of the best 
of the meat and return to the soup, and it is ready to serve. 






Is best in use. 



• ,1. 



16 



PEERLESS COOK BOOK. 



FISH. 

Fish a la Cream. — Two pounds fresh cod fish, boil in 
salt water till the bones will slip out easily, put in a deep 
dish and cover with a cream made of one pint of boiling 
milk and one well beaten egg, one spoonful flour put in the 
milk and stir till it thickens. Cover the whole with bread 
or cracker crumbs, and set in the oven to brown. 

Baked Fish.— Take a large haddock or codfish, clean 
well, and scrape all the scales off. Make a stuffing of two 
cups oatmeal, a little salt and pepper, rub in a piece of 
butter the sire of an egg ; make into a paste with a little 
milk, put inside the fish and sew it up — flour it well — grease 
the baking tin and lay it in with a little dripping. Bake 
about one hour for a four-pound fish. Serve with sauce. 

EscALOPED Oysters. — Butter the dish, and cover the 
bottom of the dish with very fine bread crumbs or cracker 
crumbs ; add a layer of oysters ; season with pepper and salt ; 
alternate the crumbs and oj'sters until your dish is QJled, 
finishing with bread crumbs; cover the top with small pieces 
of butter, and bake half an hour. 

P. If you use cracker crumbs, move moisture is required. 

OvsTER Fritters. — Draw off the juice, add a cup of 
milk, 3 eggs, salt, pepper and flour enough to make a thick 
batter, <stir in the oysters, drop from a large spoon into hot 
lard to fry. 

Oyster Patties.— Make some rich puff paste, and bake 
it in very small tin patty pans ; when cool, turn out upon a 
large dish ; stew some large fresh oysters with a few cloves, 
a little mace and nutmeg ; then add the yolk of one egg, 
boiled hard and grated ; add a little butter and as much of 
the oyster liquor as will cover them. When they have 



COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



TESTED RECIPES.-FISH. 



17 



stewed a little while, take them out of the pan and set away 
to cool. When quite cold, lay two or three oysters m each 

shell of puff paste. 

Fried OvsxERs.-Use the largest and best oysters ; lay 
them in rows upon a clean cloth, and press another upon 
them to absorb the moisture ; have ready severa beaten 
ems ■ and in another dish some finely crushed crackers ; m 
the frying pan heat enough butter to entirely cover the 
oysters ; dip the oysters first into the eggs, then mto the 
crackers, rolling them over, that they may become well 
incrusted; drop into the frying pan and fry quickly to a 
light brown. Serve dry and let the dish be warm. 

Cold Fish RELisH.-Take the remains of any cold fish, 
flake it Put some milk into a saucepan, and when quite 
hot. add a little flour, butter, chopped parsley, a little mace, 
cayenne pepper and salt. The sauce must be of the con- 
sistency of good cream. Boil some potatoes, mash them 
with milk and butter very smooth, and put them through a 
fine sieve. Arrange them round the edge of a side dish^ 
Bake to a light brown. Heat the fish in the sauce, and 
when hot pour into the middle of the dish. 

Fish BALLS.-One pint stripped salt fish, soaked, a pint 
and a half potatoes cut up. Boil together until the potato 
is done, then mash. Add one egg, tablespoonful of sugar 
milk enough to moisten. Beat up light and drop mto hot 
fat like doughnuts. 



ii 



Is rich in raising power. 



18 



PEERLKSS COOK BOOK. 



MEATS. 

Roast Beef. — Six or eight pounds from the tip or second 
cut of sirloin, wipe, trim, and tie or skewer into shape. If 
there be a large piece of the flank, cut it off and use it for 
soups or stews. If you prefer to use it for this purpose, 
after roasting, draw it round underneath and fasten it with 
a skewer. Lay the meat on a rack in a pan, and dredge 
all over with salt, pepper and flour ; put it into a very hot 
oven with two or three tablespoonfuls of dripping or pieces 
of the beef fat placed in the pan. Place a rack under the 
pan or turn the heat off from the bottom of the oven. Put 
the skin side down first, that the heat may harden the juices 
in the lean part. When the flour is brown on the pan 
and the meat is seared, baste with the fat and reduce the 
heat. Baste often and dredge twice with salt and flour. 
When seared all over, turn and bring the skin side up for 
the final basting and browning. Bake fifty or sixty min- 
utes, if liked very rare ; an hour and a quarter to an hour 
and a half, if liked well done. If there be any danger of 
burning the fat in the pan, add a little hot water after the 
flour is browned. Meat may be roasted and carved better 
if placed in the pan and on the platter with the skin up 
instead of the flesh side. ' 

Yorkshire Pudding. — Beat three eggs very light, add 
one scant teaspoonful of salt and one pint milk. Pour 
half a cup of this mixture on two-thirds of a cup of flour, 
and stir to a smooth paste, add the remainder of the mixture 
and beat well. Bake in hot gem pans forty-five minutes. 
Baste with the drippings of the beef. This is a more con- 



COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



It 



TESTED kECI PES. — vl EATS. 



19 

and 



venient way than to bake in the pan under the beef, 
gives more crust. Serve as a garnish (or roast beef. 

Gravy for Roast Beef.— When the meat is done, put 
it on a plate and keep it hot while making the gravy. Hold 
the corner of the dripping-pan over a bowl ; let the liquid 
in the pan settle ; then pour off all the fat and save it. 
When no water is used in baking and the uven is very hot, 
this liquid will be the fat from the meat. The brown flour 
will settle, and some will adhere to the pan. Pour one pint 
of hot water or stock into the pan, and scrape off all the 
sediment. Pour this water into a saucepan from which it 
raaxy be poured easily, and place it on the stove to heat. 
Put four tablespoonfuls of the hot fat into a small frying-pan 
and when browning, stir in two heaping tablespoonfuls of dry 
flour, or enough to absorb all the fat. Stir until the flour 
is brown and well mixed ; then add the hot liquid gradually, 
and stir as it thickens. Season with salt and pepper and 
simmer five minutes. Strain if not perfectly smooth. 
Gravy can be made in the dripping-pan ; but such pans 
are usually large, inconvenient to handle, and take up more 
space than can be spared on the top of the stove, and are 
much harder to wash when the gravy has been made in 
them. To make it in the pan, pour off nearly all the fat. Put 
the pan on the stove and add dry flour until the fat Is all 
absorbed, then add hot water or hot stock, and stir as it 
thickens. Cook five or eight minutes and strain. It is 
well for those who like gravies to make a large quantity, as 
it is useful in warming over the remnants of the loast beef, 
but there is no sauce or made gravy equal to the natural 
juices contained in the meat which should flow freely into 
the platter when the meat is carved. 

Spiced Beef.- -Four to six pounds from the middle cut 
of the shin. Wash the meat on the outside and cut oil any 



: Ul 



r 



Is thoroughly healthful. 



20 



I'EERLKSS COOK BOOK, 



part of the skin which is not sweet and clean; Pick off all 
the fine fragments of bone. Cut the meat into several 
pieces ; cover with boihng water. Skin carefully as it bi)ils, 
and then simmer until the meat falls to pieces and the 
liquor is reduced to half a pint. Remove the meat ; seasoir 
the liquor highly with salt, pepper, sage and thyme, add it 
to the meat, and mix with a fork till the meat is all broken. 
Pack in a brickloaf pan. When cold, cut in thin slices. 

Boned Lfx; of MurroN.— Remove the bone ; wipe in- 
side and out with a wet cloth ; sprinkle the inside with salt ;. 
stuff and sew. Put it on a rack in a dripping-pan, with 
some of the kidney suet on the meat .nnd in the pan. 
Dredge with salt, pepper and flour, and ' Ke in a hot oven. 
Baste as soon as the flour is brown, and baste often. Bake 
one hour, if liked rare ; one hour and a quarter, if well 
done. 

Stuffing.— One cup of cracker or stale bread crumbs. 
Season with one saltspoonful each of salt, pepper, thyme, or 
marjonim, and moisten with a quarter of a cup of melted 
butter. Add hot water if a moist stuffing be desired. 

Boiled Leg of MurroN or Lamb.— Wipe, remove the 
fat and pour into well-salted boiling water. Skim, and sim 
mer twelve minutes for each pound of meat. One quarte'- 
of a cup of rice is sometimes boiled with the mutton, or th^ 
the meat may be tied in a cloth to keep it from becoming 
discolored. Serve with a thick caper sauce, poured over the 
mutton. C r-sh with parsley. Serve with currant jelly. 

Carve sijCi:.i vn: the. tlackest part of the leg down to the 
bone : the i .uo : 2 i- ife under and remove the slices fronv 
the bone. Tht c rckest part * the leg should be toward 
the back of the platter. 

Veal Cutlets.— One slice of veal from the leg. Wipe, 
and remove the bony skin and tough membranes. Pound 



3 



COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



TKSTED RKCIPES.-MKATS. 



21 



and ru., oi shape into pieces for serving. Sprinkle with 
«a^. ind peppci. Roll in fine crumbs, then dip in beaten 
egj tli<- . in crumbs again. Fry several slices of salt pork, 
.xnd fry the Cutlets brown in the pork fat ; when brown 
put the Cutlets in a stewpan. Make a brown gravy 
with one tablespoonful of butter, or the fat remaining in 
the pan if it be not burned, and two h^'aping tablespoonfuls 
of flour. Pour on gradually a cup and a half of stock, or 
water. Season with Worcestershire Sauce or lemon, or 
horseraddish or tomato. Pour the gravy over the Cutlets, 
and simmer forty-five minutes, or till tender. Take them 
out on a platter, remove the fat from the gravy, add more 
■seasoning if needed, and strain over the Cutlets. Garnish 
with lemon and parsley. 

Sweetbreads.— Put them in cold water; remove the 
pipes and membranes. Cook them in boiling salted water 
with one tablespoonful of lemon juice, twenty minutes, and 
plunge into cold water to harden. They may then be cook- 
ed in either of the following ways :— 

/^;.^^^.._Lard, and i^ke until brown, basting with brown 
■stock. Serve with peas. Fried.— KoW in fine bread crumbs, 
«gp, -ind a stv-ond time in crumbs, and fry in deep fat, or 
santd in a little fat. Creamed.— Cu^. in small pieces, and 
•serve in a white sauce, on toast or in toast patties, or in 
puff-paste shells or as a vol-au-vent. Broi/ed.— Rub with 
•butter, salt and pepper ; wrap in buttered paper, and boil 
ten minutes. Serve with Maitre d' Hotel butter. 

To Clean and Truss Poultry and Game.— The 
practice of sending poultry to market undressed, is one that 
demands as earnest opposition from housekeepers as that of 
the adulteration of food. The meat is rendered t .to 
eat ; is sometimes infected with poison ; and the increase in 



/ — ] 



weight makes poultry a very expensive lOOu 



All 






Mas all ingredients of best quality. 



m 

1*1 



1 



22 



PEERLESS COOK BOOK. 



I 

'I 

] \ 



should be dressed as soon as killed. The feathers come 
out more easily when the fowl is warm, and when stripped 
off toward the head. If the skin be very tender, pull the 
feathers out the opposite way. Use a knife to remove the 
pin feathers. Singe the hairs and down by holding the 
fowl over a gas jet, or over a roll of lighted paper held over 
the fire. Cut off the head, and if the fowl is to be roasted, 
slip the skin back from the neck and cut the neck off close 
to the body, leaving skin enough to fold over on the back. 
Remove the windpipe ; pull the crop away from the skin on 
the neck and breast, and cut off close to the opening into- 
the body. Be careful not to tear the skin. Always pull 
the crop out from the end of the neck, rather than through 
a cut in the skin, which, if made, has to be sewed together. 
Cut through the skin about two inches below the leg joint ;. 
bend the leg at the cut by pressing it over the edge of the 
table, and break off the bone. Then pull, not cut, out the 
tendons. If care be be taken to cut only through the skin^ 
these cords may be pulled out easily, one at a time, with 
the fingers. Or take them all out at once by putting the 
foot of the fowl against the casing of a door, then shut the 
door tightly and pull out the leg. The tendons will come 
out with the foot ; but, if once cut, they cannot be removed. 
The drumstick of a roast chicken or turkey is greatly im- 
proved by removing the tendons, which always become hard 
and bony in baking. There is a special advantage in cutting 
the leg below the joint, as the ends of the bones afford more 
length for tying, and after roasting this is easily broken off^ 
leaving a clean, unburned joint for the table. 

To Dress a Fowl for Roasting.— Make an incision 
near the vent ; insert two fingers, loosen the fat from the 
skin, and separate the the membranes )ving close to the 
body. Keep the fingers up close to the breast-bone, until 



4^' 



COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



I 



TESTED RECIPES.-MEATS. 



23 



1 

4i 



you can reach in beyond the liver and heart, and loosen on 
either side down toward the back. The gall bladder lies 
under the lobe of the liver on the left side, and if the 
fingers be kept up, and everything loosened before drawing 
out, there will be no danger of its breaking. The kidneys 
and lungs are often left in by careless cooks ; but everything 
that can be taken out, must be removed. When the fowl 
has been cleaned carefully, it will not require much wash- 
ing. Hold it under the faucet, or rince out the inside 
quickly : then wipe dry. 

To Stuff a Fowl. — Place the fowl in a bowl, and put 
the stuffing in at the neck ; fill out the breast until plump 
and even. Then draw the neck skin together at the end, 
and sew it over on the back. Put the remainder of the 
stuffing into the body at the other opening, and if full, sew 
it with coarse thread or fine twine. If not full, sewing is 
unnecessary, except when the fowl is to be boiled. 

The strong smell in old fowls may be removed by wash- 
ing in warm soda water. 

Boiled or Steamed Turkey.— Clean, rub well with 
salt, pepper and lemon juice, and stuff with oyster or bread 
stuffing. It is better without the stuffing, as the oysters 
are usually overdone, and the same flavor may be obtained 
from an oyster sauce served with the turkey. Truss the leg 
and wings close to the body ; pin the fowl in a cloth to 
keep it whiter and preserve the shape ^ut into boiling 
salted water. Allow twenty minutes to the pound. Cook 
slowly till tender, but not long enough for it to fall apart. 
Turkeys are much nicer steamed than boiled. Serve with 
oysters, celery, lemon or caper sauce. Garnish with a 
border of boiled rice or macaroni, and pour part of the 
sauce over the fowl. Fowls are sometimes stuffed with 
boiled celery, cut into pieces an inch long, or with maca- 



• i\- 



Should always be used. 



24 PEERLESS COOK BOOK. 

roni which has been boiled and seasoned with salt and 
pepper. 

Roast Goose.— Singe, remove the pin-feathers, and 
before it is cut or drawn, wash and scrub thoroughly in 
warm soap suds, to open and cleanse the pores, and render 
the oil more easy to be extracted. Then draw, wash and 
rinse the inside in clear water, and wipe dry. Stuff with 
mashed potatoes, highly seasoned with onions, sage, salt 
and pepper, or with equal parts of bread crumbs, chopped 
apples, and boiled onions, seasoned with salt, sage and pep- 
per. Sew and truss ; put on a rack in a pan and cover the 
breast with slices of fat salt pork. Place in the oven for 
three-quarters of an hour. Then pork fat is quickly drawn 
out by the heat, flows over the goose, and aids in drawing 
out the oil. When considerable oil is extracted, take the 
pan from the oven and pour off all the oil. Remove the 
pork and dredge the goose with flour, and place again in 
■ the oven. When the flour is browned, add a little hot 
water and baste often. Dredge with flour after basting. 
Cook until brown and tender. Make a gravy. Ciarnish 
with water-cresses. Serve with apple sauce. 

Meat Pie. — Cut cold cooked meat into small thin slices 
or into half-inch cubes, remove all the gristle and fat except 
the crisp outside fat, put into a baking dish, and cover with 
the meat gravy or with tomato or brown sauce piquante. 
Spread a crust of mashed potatoes over the meat, brush 
with beaten egg or sprinkle with cracker crumbs, and cook 
twenty minutes or till brown. 

Jellied Turkey.— To prepare the turkey. Pick and 
singe the turkey, draw out the sinews, cut off the feet and 
head. With a sharp knife cut the skin down the centre of 
the back and raise the flesh carefully on either side until 
the legs and wings are reached, when extra care is necessary 



.* i 



COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



TESTED RECIPES.-MEATS. 



25 



i ' 



1 



to remove the bones without cutting the skin. Care is 
again required when detaching the breast-bone from the 
skin. When this is done the whole body may easily be 
taken out entire. Now restore the turkey as nearly as 
possible to its original form by filling the legs, wings 
and body with forcemeat. Sew up, truss and put on to 
roast. Make a little stock of the bones and giblets to be 
used in the jelly. 

To Mak-E the Jelly.— Take one cow heel, one large 
shank of beef, five or six pounds of knuckle of veal, two 
•onions, one bunch sweet herbs, put all on to boil in six 
<iuarts of water, with salt and spices. Carefully remove the 
•scum as it rises, let it boil seven or eight hours, stiain and 
set away to cool. When cold remove the fat, turn the jelly 
into the stew pan, being particular to leave the sediment ; 
.add the stock from the turkey bones, also the gravy which 
came from the turkey while roasting, the whites and shells 
of six eggs. Set on the fire, when it boils draw it aside 
and let it stand fifteen or twenty minutes. Run through a 
flannel jelly bag, and season with Worcester Sauce. Place 
the turkey in a mould in which you have previously put a 
«mall quantity of the jelly to firm, pour in the rest and 
set away to cool. When required, turn out on a platter. 

Forcemeat.— One pound of veal, one pound of fat bacon, 
salt, cayenne pepper, and pounded mace to taste, a very 
little nutmeg, the same of chopped lemon-peel, half tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, half teaspoonful of minced 
savory herbs, one or two eggs. Chop the veal and bacon 
together, and put them in a mortar with the other ingre- 
dients. Pound well, and bind with one or two well beaten 
eggs. Work the whole well together, and the forcemeat is 
ready for use. 

Thick CRE.^M Sauce, (for Croquettes and Patties).— 



Is entirely free from Alum. 



I 



11 *l 



sess 



26 



PEERLESS COOK BOOK. 



i 



> 



One pint hot cream, two even tablespoonfuls butter, four 
heaping tablespoonfuls flour, or two heaping tablespoonfuls 
cornstarch, half teaspoonful salt, half saltspoonful white 
pepper, half teaspoonful celery salt, a few grains of cayenne. 
Scald the cream. Melt the butter in a granite saucepan. 
When bubbling, add the dry cornstarch. Stir till well 
mixed. Add one-third of the cream, and stir as it boils 
and thickens. Add more cream, and boil again. Wher> 
perfectly smooth add the remainder of the cream. The 
sauce should be very thick, almost like a drop batter. Add 
the >5easoning, and mix it while hot with the meat or fish. 
For Croquettes, one beaten egg may be added just as the 
sauce is taken from the fire ; but the Croquettes are whiter 
and more creamy without the egg. For patties, warm the 
meat or fish in the sauce, and use the egg or not as you 
please. 

Croquettes. — These may be made of any kind of 
cookr.d meat, fish, oysters, rice, hominy, and many kinds 
of vegetables, or from a mixture of several ingredients. 
When mixed with the thick white sauce given above, less 
meat is required. The sauce is a stiff paste when cold, and 
being mixed with the meat or fish, the Cioquettes may be 
handled and shaped perfectly, and when cooked will be 
soft and creamy inside. 

Welsh Rarebit. — Quarter pound rich cream cheesev 
quarter cup of cream or milk, one teaspoonful of mustard, 
half teaspoonful of salt, a few grains of cayenne, one egg, 
one teaspoonful of butter, four slices of toast. Break the 
cheese in small pieces, or if hard grate it. Put it with the 
milk in a double boiler. Toast the bread, and keep it hot. 
Mix the mustard, salt and pepper ; add the egg, and beat 
well. When the cheese is melted, stir in the egg and butter, 
and cook two minutes, or until it thickens a little, but do 



4\K 



iki 



COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



' ■ t 



TESTED RECIPES.-MEATS. 



27 



iU 



not let it curdle. Pour it over the toast. Many use ale 
instead of cream. 

Good Beef Tea.— One pound of lean beef, cut fine; 
add one pint cold water and five drops of muriatic acid ; 
put into a glass jar. Place the jar in a pan of water at 
110 ° and keep it at that temperature for two hours. Then 
strain through thick muslin until the meat is dry, or press 
the juice out by squeezing. The acid makes the tea agree- 
able to a patient with fever, and also aids in drawing out 
the juice of the meat. 

Lobster Croquettes.— One pint of lobster meat, cut 
fine. Season with one saltspoonful of salt, one saltspoonful 
of mustard, and a little cayenne, and moisten with one cup' 
of thick sauce. Cool and shape into rolls. Roll in crumbs,, 
egg, and crumbs again, and fry in smoking-hot fat. Draim 
on paper. 



4 



Is a healthful suhstitute for Shortening. 



i^ll 



m 

ti 



*» 



^ 



PEERLESS COOK BOOK. 



• 



PUDDINGS. 

Apple Float. — A pint of stewed apples made smooth, 
whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth, four tablespoon- 
fuls sugar. Add sugar and apples alternately, a spoonful 
each, heat all until perfectly stiff. Serve with rich boiled 
custard. 

Cherry Pudding. — A pint of bread crumbs or cracker 
scalded in a quart of boiling milk, butter size of an egg, 
three eggs, one and a half teacups of sugar, a little cinna- 
mon, a quart of stoned cherries. Bake quickly. 

Vanilla Cream Pudding. — A cup sugar, a cup and a 
half flour, three tablespoonfuls melted butter, same of milk, 
three eggs, one teaspoonful soda, two of cream tartar. 
Bake in two square pans. When baked, let cake cool, and 
put the following cream between and over, serve warm. 
Cream. — One quart milk, one egg, three tablespoonfuls of 
corn starch, sugar and vanilla to taste. Make like boiled 
custard. 

Apple Pudding. — Six chopped apples, ivvo eggs, one 
pint of bread crumbs, one cup l)rown sugar, allspice, cloves, 
nutmeg to taste, butter size of an egg, put in in little bits, 
mix all together. Put mixture in well buttered dish and 
bake one hour. Turn out and serve with sauce. 

Orange Puff. — Boil together one pint of water, one 
teacupful sugar, juice of one lemon, moisten and stir 
into this two tablespoonfuls of corn starch ; boil until a begins 
to thicken, put away until very cold ; just before serving stir 
in the whites of two eggs, bekt 2n to a stiff froth. Cut oran- 
ges into small pieces, remove seeds and sweeten, pour over 
them the mixture without stirrino^= 

COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



41 1^ 



*|i 



TESTED RECIPES.— PUDDINGS. 



2fiK 



41 1^ 



\ 



Dandy Pudding.— Four eggs beaten separately, into the 
yolks beat four heaping tablespoonfuls of brown sugar, with 
two tablespoonfuls of corn starch. Into this pour one (luart 
of boiling milk, stir until well mixed, flavor with lemon. To 
the whites of eggs add five tablespoonfuls of white sugar, 
beat until they can stand alone, put on top of other mixture 
and brown nicely in the oven. 

(iiNGERBREAD PuDDiNG.— One cup molasses, one cup 
chopped suet, half cup sour milk, one teaspoonful each of 
ginger and soda, bread crumbs to make stiff. Soda and 
salt last. Steam three hours. Sauce.— White sugar and 
butter, whipped. 

Tapioca or Sago Pudding.— Pare and core six or seven 
large apples, put in a buttered dish. Pour over a cup of 
tapioca one quart of boiling water, let it stand an hour, 
add two teacupfuls of sugar, a little essence of lemon. Pour 
this over the apples and bake an hour. Peaches, fresh 
or canned, may be substituted, and are an improvement. 

CoTTAdE Pudding.— Two eggs, one cup sugar, one cup 
milk, three and a half cups of flour, one teaspoonful soda, 
two cream tartar, one tablespoonful butter melted and put 
in the last thing. Steam one and a half or two hours. • 

American Plum Pudding.— Two cups bread crumbs, 
two cups flour, one cup suet, half cup sugar, half cup mo- 
lasses, one cup milk, one cup raisins, one cup currants, three 
teaspoonfuls baking powder, cinnamon, cloves, and salt to- 
taste. Steam four hours or bake three. 

Gingerbread Pudding.— One cup each of molasses,, 
bread crumbs, same of suet, milk, half cup sugar,, three eggs, 
one teaspoonful ginger, two teaspoonfuls cinnamon, two- 
teaspoonfuls baking powder. Flour enough to make quite 
stiff. Boil or steam three hours. 



Once used ia always preferred. 



'? 






30 



PEERLESS COOK BOOK. 



Paradise Pudding. — One pint bread crumbs, same of 
«uet, foure ggs, four apples minced fine, one cup raisins, one 
cup of milk, half cup currants, three-fourths of a cup of sugar, 
spice to taste,*thicken with flour ; put in a mould and steam 
or boil three hours. 

Frozen Pudding. — Take stale plum and sponge cake. 
Butter a pudding mould. Put a layer of cake, then a layer 
of either strawberry or raspberry jam, until the mould is 
nearly full, turn on a cup of good sherry, or lemon juice and 
water ; make a boiled custard, enough to soften the cake, 
pour over all, and let stand until cake is soft, place in ice 
.and salt to freeze. 

IcK Pudding. — To a pint of rich custard, add a pint of 
■cream, mix thoroughly with the custard. Sweet and bitter 
almonds pounded fine, green citron, preserved ginger chop- 
ped fine, juice and rind of a lemon. Put mixture in a 
mould, cover close with a waler paste. Freeze sufficiently 
hard to turn out. 

Earl Grey Pudding. — Three eggs weight in butter and 
sugar, weight of two eggs of flour. Beat the butter to a 
cream and whisk the eggs very light, pound the sugar, and 
beat all three together until it is in a froth. Then add the 
flour gradually and the peel of one lemon grated, a little 
nutmeg and six bitter almonds bruised fine. Beat the whole 
well, fill the mould and boil gently two and a half hours. 

Rice Croquettes. — Two cups of cold boiled rice, two 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter, two beaten eggs, one table- 
spoonful of sugar, a pinch of grated lemon peel, same of 
nutmeg. Mix butter and rice, add flavoring, lastly the 
beaten eggs. Make into balls, roll in egg, then in sugar, fry 
a few at a time in hot lard. 

Batter Pudding. — Four eggs, one pint milk, five table- 



COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



TESTED RECIPES.-rUDDINGS. 



31 



spoonfuls of flour, a small piece of butter, salt and sugar to 

taste. 

Puff Pudding.— Six eggs, seven tablespoonfuls of flour, 
one pint of sour cream, one pint of sweet milk, half tea- 
spoonful of soda, beat the whites separately, and add after the 
other ingredients have been mixed. Bake twenty minutes. 
Apple Charlotte.— Line pudding dish with slices of 
buttered bread, having buttered the dish too. Prepare a 
few apples with lemon rind, nutmeg, and a good lump of 
butter, put the mixture into the dish, cover with slices of 
buttered bread. Bake and turn out of dish quite hot. 

Lemon Puff.— One cup prepared flour, half cup of pow- 
dered sugar, one tablespoonful butter, three eggs, whites 
and yolks beaten separately, grated peel of one lemon, three 
spoonfuls milk, and h little salt. Cream the butter, and sugar, 
whip in the yolks, milk and lemon peel, then the whites and 
flour alternately. Bake in small buttered tins or "gem" 
pans. Turn out while hot, and eat with sweet cream. 

Troy Pudding.— One cup of suet chopped fine, one and 
a half cup of raisins, one cup of currants, one cup milk, one 
of molasses, one quart of flour, four teaspoonfuls baking 
powder. Steam three hours. 

Macaroni Pudding.— Two and a half ounces of mac- 
aroni pudding, one quart of milk, rind of half a lemon, three 
€ggs. Into a pint of milk, put the macaroni, let it simmer 
slowly until tender ; then put it in pudding dish with the 
other ingredients, and bake slowly half an hour. Put a 
layer of marmalade over the top and serve. Vermicelli may 
be used instead of macaroni. 

Cabinet Pudding.— Butter a mould, put raisins and 
candied peel on bottom and sides. Fill the mould with al- 
ternate layers of sponge cake, ratafias and macaroons, pour 



t H 



Is more economical than any other 



— — ■ ■ .■ ■ . L.l i iftUL 'g 



32 



PEERLESS COOK BOOK. 



i . 



cold custard over all, made of four eggs, a half pint of milk, 
one ounce and a half of sugar, a glass of milk, grated rind of 
lemon. Steam the pudding an hour and a half. Serve with 
whip sauce. 

Suet Pudding. — One pound suet, same of currants and 
raisins, eight eg^s, two ounces candied orange and lemon 
peel, half pound "bread crumbs, half pound of flour, half pint 
milk, half a teaspoonful soda. Mix well and put in a mould 
and boil five hours. 

Tapioca Meringue. — One teacupful of tapioca soaked in 
one and a half pints of warm water for three hours. Peel 
and core eight tart apples, fill cores with sugar, flavor tapi- 
oca with juice of one lemon. One hour before needed, 
pour the tapioca over the apples and bake. Serve in the 
dish baked in. Whip the whites of four eggs and spread 
over the top, then brown slightly. 

Baiter Pudding. — One pint milk, four eggs, yolks and 
whites beaten separately, ten tablespoonfuls flour. Beat the 
whites in last. Bake half an hour. 

Cottage PuDDiNG.~One cup sugar, three tablespoonfuls. 
of melted butter, one teacupful milk, one egg, two large cups 
of flour, one teaspoo -ful soda, two cream tartar. Bake 
about half an hour. 

Carrot Pudding. — One cup grated carrot, one cup 
grated potatoes, one cup suet, one cup sugar, one cup cur- 
rants, one cup raisins, one and one half cups flour and a 
little soda. Steam three hours. 

Plain Macaroni Pudding. — Half pound macaroni, 
broken in pieces an inch long, boiled tender in salted water. 
One tablespoonful of butter, one large cup of milk, twO' 
eggs, grated peel of half a lemon and a little cinnamon. 
Vt jicn the macaroni is tender, drain off the water and add. 



GOQK!S FRIEND Baking Powder 



TESTED RECIPES.— PUDDINC.S. 



33 



the butter. Heat the milk and pour on the beaten eggs, 
ijUgar and flavoring. Mix with the macaroni and bake in a 
buttered pudding dish, covered, for a hali" hour, then brown. 

Fig'Puddinc;.— A pound of figs cut tine, six ounces 
bread crumbs, half pound suet minced fine, ten ounces 
•sugar, three eggs, one small nutmeg grated, half cup flour. 
Boil cr steam three hours. 

Plum Pudoinc;.— One pound NDned raisins, one pound 
washed currants, one pound flour, one pound suet chopped 
•fine, half pound bread crumbs, one small nutmeg grated, 
half teaspoonful ground cinnamon, a pinch of ground cloves, 
half pound very brown sugar, eight eggs well beaten. Mix 
well, and if more moisture is needed add a little milk. The 
mixture must drop from the spoon in lumps. Hoil five hours. 

Plain Pudding.— Three cupfuls flour, one cupful molas- 
ses, same of milk, one and a half cupfuls of suet, same of 
currants and raisins, one teaspoonful of soda, half teaspoonful 
cream tartar, one teaspoonful each of cloves, cinnamon, all- 
spice, one egg. Steam three hours. 

Orange Pudding.— Six oranges, one pint milk, three 
€ggs, three tablespoonfuls sugar, one heaping tablespoonful 
corn starch. Peel and take seeds out of oranges, cut them 
up and sprinkle sugar over them. Let them stand about 
three hours. Beat the yolks of the eggs with sugar and 
corn starch and stir into the milk, let boil three minutes : 
when nearly cold pour over the oranges. Make a frosting 
of the whites of the eggs, and a half cupful of sugar, spread 
over pudding. Put the pudding dish in the oven in a pan 
of hot water, leave until the frosting is a light brown. 

Arrowroot Pudding (Cold).— Three even tablespoon- 
fials of arrowroot (get the Bermuda if you can) or you maj' 
require more, three cups of milk, two tablespoonfuls of 
siaar, QEse of butter-, a quarter of a pound of crystalized 



Never disappoints the user. 

c 



t 

s _ 



Ill 






34 



I'EKRLESS COOK BOOK. 



peaches chopped fine. Heat the milk scaldii.g hot, stir ini 
the arrowroot wet with cold milk ; stir ten minutes, and add 
sugar and butter ; stir five minutes more, and pour out 
when nearly cold he.it in the fruit. Pour into a wet mould ; 
serve with cream and brown sugar. 

Vanilla Souffle. — Five eggs, whites and yolks beaten 
separately, one pint of milk, butter size of an egg, three 
heaped tablcspoonfuls corn starch sugar, salt, and flavoring 
to taste. Wet the corn starch, with part of the milk. Put 
all the ing-edients except the eggs into a saucepan and stir 
until the mixture thickens, take off and when cooled add 
yolks of eggs well beaten. Beat all well. Have whites of 
eggs beaten to stiff froth, and beat all again for two or three 
minutes ; add vanilla. Pour into a buttered pan, bake half 
hour. Serve the instant it comes from the oven or it is 
ruined. 

'1'ry me Pudding. — One pint flour, one large teacupful 
milk, two even tablcspoonfuls sugar, salt to taste, one tea- 
spoonful soda in the milk, two teaspoonfuls cream tartar. 
Sift flour and cream tartar together two or three times. 
Butter small cups, put a spoonful of batter in the bottom of 
the cup, then a large ^spoonful of preserved or sweetened, 
fresh fruit, then nearly fill the cup with batter. Steam half 
an hour, turn out of cups and serve with sauce. 

Cheese Pudding. — One cupful of cheese chopped, or 
sliced thin, a cupful of milk, a cupful of bread crumbs, one 
egg, a little pepper and salt. Bake as a scallop. Nice for 
lunch or tea. 

Queen of Puddings. — One pint bread crumbs, one 
quart of milk, the yolks of four eggs well beaten, one cupful 
of sugar, and the grated rind of two lemons. Mix these 
together and bake ; when nearly cool put on a layer of pre- 
serves,, then beat up the whites of four eggs with a cupful 



COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



TESTKD KKCII'KS.-I'UI)D1\(;S. 



35 



of sugar and the juice of the one lemon, put this over the 
preserves, and hake until sHghtly crisp. 

Sunday FuDDiNC— Half pound raisins, half pound 
currants, four eggs, one nutnieg, one ([uarter pound 
of flour, same of bread cTuml)s, half pound sugar, a little 
cinnamon and salt, half pint milk, a little soda, half pound 
suet. 

Carrot Pudding.— One cupful grated carrot, one cup- 
ful sugar, bread crumbs, raisins, currants, suet, one and one 
half cupfuls of t1our, a little lemon peel, spice to taste. Boil 
three hours, and serve with sweet sauce. 

English Plum Pudding.— Nine eggs, one pound each 
of sugar, suet, currants, raisins, flour ; a (juarter of a pound 
of citron, one tablespoonful mi.xed spices, add milk to 
make (luite stiff. Put in a strong well floured cloth ; in tying 
leave plenty of room for it to swell. Hoil nine hours 
well covered. Use sauce to taste, 

liROWN Pudding.— Eight ounces flour, six ounces suet, 
three eggs, two cupfuls treacle, one tcaspoonful soda, half 
teaspoonful tartaric acid, half teaspoonful lemon. Mix the 
acid with the flour, add suet, beat the eggs and add the 
treacle to them ; beat well for a few minutes, then add flavor- 
ing and mix well. Steam three hours. liaking powder will 
do instead of soda, etc. 

Gel.\tine Pudding.— F'our eggs, the whites only, three- 
fourths box gelatine, two lemons, rind and juice, three-fourths 
of a cupful of sugar ; dissolve gelatine in half a pint of 
water. 

Suet Pudding.— One pound of suet chopped fine, one 
pint sweet milk, two eggs, one cupful currants, one cupful 
seedless raisins, one tablespoonful salt, one teaspoonful bak- 
ing soda, mix to a stiff batter, !>oil three hours Kanrt' t^^- 
taste. 



Made only by W. D. McLAREN. 



lij] 



I 



'.U 



36 



PEERLESS COOK BOOK. 



Suet Pudding.— A cupful molasses, same of chopped 
suet and sweet milk, one and a half pounds of currants, 
some raisins, one teasi)oonful soda, a half teaspoonful cream 
tartar, one teaspoonful each of cloves, cinnamon and allspice. 
Flour to make stiff. Steam three hours. 

Ricn Snowballs. —Boil a pint of rice in two (juarts of 
water, with a teaspoonful of salt, until quite soft, fill small 
cups (luite full, when cold turn out on a dish, make a boiled 
custard of yolks of three eggs, one pint of milk, a teaspoon- 
ful of corn starch. Pour over rice half an hour before eating 
it. Jelly or any preserve is nice with it. 

Suet Pudding.— Good half cupful suet chopped fine, 
two cupfuls sifted flour, one teaspoonful and a half baking 
powder, one cupful brown sugar, same of raisins, currants 
and sweet milk. Steam or boil in a buttered mould for 
three hours. Sei:ye with sauce of sugar and butter beaten to 
a cream, with a little nutmeg grated on top. 

Surprise Pudding.— One pint flour, one cupful sweet 
milk, one tablespoonful white sugar, two heaping teaspoon- 
fuls Cook's Friend baking powder, a little salt. Sift flour 
and baking powder together, putting through sieve twice. 
Beat well togeth-r, roll out just as soft as it can be handled. 
Have a tin pudding pan ready with hot sliced apples, about 
two inches deep, flavored with nutmeg and lemon, or any- 
thing preferred, and sweeten to taste, strew bits of butter 
over apple, and pour in enough water to almost cover the 
mixture. Let it get quite hot, then put the dough on. 
Have another pan exactly size of one the pudding is in, 
cover the pudding with this pan. Steam three-quarters of 
an hour. Serve with sauce. 

Ginger Pudding.— One cupful of molasses, one cupful 
of butter, one cupful of sweet milk, three cupfuls of flour, 
two eggs, one tablespoonful of ginger, two teaspoonfuls cream 
tartar, one teaspoonful soda. Steam one hour. 



^ 



J ipi 



COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



TESTED RECIPES.- PUDDINGS. 



37 



) 



,. 



Batter Pudding. — One pint of flour, one teaspoonful 
cream tartar, half a teaspoonful soda, one cupful sweet milk, 
half a cupful sugar, one egg, salt ; sift flour and cream of tartar 
together, then beat all well to mix thoroughly. Have any 
kind of stewed fruit in pudding dish very hot. Pour the 
batter over the fruit, and bake half an hour. Liquid sauce. 

Kiss Pudding. — A quart of milk, three tablespoonfuls of 
corn starch, yolks of four eggs, half cupful of sugar, a little 
salt ; put part of the milk with the sugar and salt on the 
stove and let it boil, with the rest of the milk dissolve the 
corn starch and add to the boiling mixture, stir in the yolks 
after the mixture thickens. Pour into the pudding dish. 
Make a frosting with the whites of the eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth, and half a cupful of white sugar. Pour half 
of this over the pudding and place in the oven to brown, 
then add the remaining frosting, and sprinkle grated cocoa- 
nut over the whole. 

Yorkshire Pudding. — Four heaping tablespoonfuls of 
flour, a little salt, one teaspoonful of baking powder well 
mixed with the dry flour, two eggs well beaten ; one pint 
of milk. Mix very smooth. Have ready half a small cupful 
of beef dripping in a pan, boiling hot ; pour in the batter 
and bake half an hour. 

Chocolate Pudding. — One and a half quarts of milk, 
boiled, half cake of chocolate stirred in milk, a small cupful 
of corn starch dissolved in a little water, add two eggs with 
one cupful of sugar, a little salt. C'ream sauce. 

Snow Pudding. — Six eggs, six tablespoonfuls corn starch, 
a little salt, one tablespoonful of sugar, the juice of one 
lemon ; dissolve the corn starch in a little cold watir and 
pour one quart of boiling water u ion it, then add the whites of 
the eggs beaten to a stiff froth and stir well, put in a basin 
in boiling water and scald ten minutes, turn into a mould 



I' 



Is best in use. 



38 



PEERLESS COOK BOOK. 



i 



m 



and put to cool ; scald one and one half pints of milk, add 
yolks of eggs, beaten lightly, sugar to taste, stir until it begins 
to thicken, add salt, and flavor to taste, turn out the snow 
on a dish and pour custard around it. One half this measure 
i» enough for six persoiTs. 

Fig Pudding. — Two cupfuls of figs, two tablespoonfuls 
of butter, two and a half tablespoonfuls of sugar, one cupful 
of milk, two and a half cupfuls of bread crumbs. Mix 
well and steam or boil three hours. 

Sago Custard. — Three tablespoonfuls of sago boiled in 
a little water ; add one quart of milk, let it come to a boil, ' 
then add five or six well beaten eggs and sugar to taste. 
Put the vessel containing the custard in a kettle of l)<5iling 
water, stir iintil it thickens ; cool a little and flavor with ^ 
vanilla. 

To Boil Rice Dry. — Wash a»breakfast cupful of rice, in 
cold water, put in a saucepan and pour three pints of boiling 
water on it. Boil quickly for twenty minutes. Throw it 
into a cotander arid pour a cupful of cold water quickly 
over it. Turn back into the saucepan and place at the back 
of the stove, shake it occasionally. 

Bread and Apple Pudding. — In a buttered pudding 
dish, put slices of buttered bread, enoughgto cover the bot- 
tom of dish, butter both sides of bread, on the bread put a 
layer an inch and a half thick of sliced apples flavored with 
nutmeg and lemon, and su^r to taste, one mci"e layer of 
buttered brtipd, then apples as before. Put parings on top 
to preveirt the top layer of apples burning. Pour in the 
side of^e dish one cuf)ful of hot water. Bake rather more 
than three quarters of an hour. Turn out, sprinkle with 
sugar and serve with sauce. Remove peelings before 
dishing. 






.. 



COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 






TESTED RECIPES.— PUDDINGS.* 



39 



Gr.\ham Pudding. — One cupful of molasses, one cupful 
"of milk, one egg, one tablespoonful of butter, one teasjioon- 
ful of soda, one cupful and a half of graham flour, one cupful 
of chopped raisins. Spice to taste. Steam two hours. 

Honf:y Comb Pudding.— One cupful sweet milk, same 
of suet, molasses, raisins and currants, four cupfuls flour, 
tAvo teaspoonfuls cream tartar, one teaspoonful soda, a little 
«alt. Steam or boil three hours. 

Corn Meal Pudding. — A quart of boiling, milk, four _ 
eggs, reserve the whites of two, meal to make the Consis- 
tency of mush, sugar and spice to taste, use whites with one 
cup brown sugaj^beaten stiff", put over just before taking 
from oven. Serve with whipped cream or hard sauce. 

Apple Snow. — Six large baked apples, whites of two eggs. 
Beat the pulp very smooth, and whites of eggs to a stiff 
froth. Put both together and beat until quite white and 
firm. Sweeten to taste and set in a cool place. Serve with 
sauce made of a small pint of boiling itilk, the yolks of the 
eggs, sugar to taste, salt and vanilla. • 

Orange Pudding. — Peel and cut five oranges into slices, 
put over them a cup of white sugar. Put a fablespoonful of 
corn starch into a pint of milk, let boil ; add the yolks of 
three eggs, well beaten, stir all the time until thickened. 
Pour over the fruit. Beat the whites to a stiff" froth with 
sugar, spread over top, put in me oven a few minutes. Eat 
cold. 

■ Tapioca and I.emon Puddin<; -Six. tablespoonfuls of 
tapioca, boiled in water sufficient to soften and boil clear, 
rind of one lemon, juice of two, whites of two eggs. Mould 
and serve when colcSjlith sweetened cream or boiled 
custard. 



• I 



I 
11 jl 



Is rich in raising power. 



I' -I 

i. 1.1 



40 



PEERLESS COOK BOOK. 



SAUCES. 



I if 



Sago Sauce. — A tablespoonful of sago, three-fourths of a 
pint of water, rind and juice of a lemon, sugar and flavoring 
to taste. Wash the sago thoroughly and put into a saucepan 
>vith lemon rind, simmer gently ten minutes, take out the 
rind, add lemon juice, salt, sugar and flavoring. Give one 
boil and serve. 

Hard Sauce. — One quarter pound of sugar, same of 
butter, one quarter of a nutmeg, white of one egg. Put the 
sugar and butter in a bowl and beat them to a cream, tak- 
ing care that the butter does not oil, which may be prevented 
by keeping it cool, whip the white of the egg to a stiff froth 
and mix lightly into the bowl. Put into a glass dish for 
serving, and grate the nutmeg over it. 

Pudding Sauce. — Three-fourths cupful of butter, cupful 
and a half of sugar, one egg, juice and grated rind of one 
lemon, stir to a cream. Just before serving add one pint 
boiling w.iter. 

Sauce for Salt Fish. — A teacupful of melted butter^ 
four eggs boiled hard and chopped fine, parsley, juice of 
one lemon. ^ 

Jelly Sauce for Puddings. — One half cupful of currant 
jelly, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, half the grated 
peel and all the juice of one lemon, half a teaspoonful of 
nutmeg, one tablespoonful powdered sugar, one cupful boil- 
ing water, one teaspoonful corn stq^^ft. Beat the hot water 
gradually into the jelly, add butter, Temon and nutmeg, heat 
almost to boil. Put in sugar and corn starch wet with water. 
Boil up once sharply, and take from the fire ; set in closely 

COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



\ 



i^ 



TESTED RECIPES.-SAUCES. 



41 



i 



covered vessel in hot water until wanted. Stir well before 
turning out. 

Pudding Sauce.— One cupful of sugar, half cupful of but- 
ter, one cupful of milk, one egg, one teaspoonful of flour. 
Stir butter and sugar to a cream, add the flour and egg well 
beaten, then the milk boiling hot. Flavor. 

Simple Mayonmaise Sauce.— Yolk of one raw egg, one 
level teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of dry mustard, 
one saltspoonful of white pepper, a small pinch of cayenne 
pepper, juice of half a lemon. Mix these ingredients with a 
wooden spoon until they have a creamy-white look, then add 
drop by drop three gills of salad oil, stirring all constantly. 
If it thickens too fast add a little of the juice of the second 
half of lemon, then add gradually four tablespoonfuls of 
strong vinegar. Keep cool until used. 

Oyster Sauce. — Make a nice drawn butter with half 
cupful butter, one tablespoonful flour, one cupful milk, a 
little salt ; when boiled and thickened add oysters, as many 
as you please. Let cook until the oysters curl at the edges. 
Serve with boiled turkey or chicken pie. 

Celery Sauce. — Make drawn butter same as for Oyster 
sauce, add four heads of celery that have been boiled in 
salted water until tender and chopped rather fine Add 
mace, salt, and pepper to taste. 

Pudding Sauce. — Two eggs beaten thoroughly, cream, 
half cupful of butter, and one cupful of sugar. Then beat 
the eggs in, ;ind « n this pour a cupful of boiling milk. 
Beat all for two or three minutes. If served with a pudding 
with fresh fruit in ir, a cupful of the fruit added to the sauce 
is an improvement. 

Pudding Sauck. -Two cupfuls of brown sugar, four tea- 
spoonfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of salt ; mix well, pour 



u 



Is thoroughly healthful. 



42 



PEERLESS COOK BOOK. 



it 



rr 



over mixture two cupfuls of boiling water, let boil until as 
thick as cream, stirring to prevent burning, add four table- 
spoonfuls of good cider vinegar, nutmeg and lemon to 
taste. This must not be made of white sugar. 

Bread Sauce. — One pint of milk, three-fourths of a pound 
of dry bread crumbs, one onion, one ounce of butter, mace, 
«alt and cayenne to taste. Cut up the onion and boil tender in 
the milk, strain the milk over the bread crumbs, cover and 
let stand long enough to soak up milk, then beat thoroughly, 
add salt, butter, cayenne and mace. Boil up and serve 
too thick, thin with cream after the sauce has boiled. Serve 
with roast turkey, fowl, game, etc. Add oysters for oyster 
sauce. 

Dutch Sauce for P^ish.- Half a teaspoonful of flour, 
two ounces of butter, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, same 
of water, yolks of two eggs, salt to taste. Put all on togeth- 
er, keep stirring until it thickens, don't let it boil or it will 
curdle. Good for salads made of hard boiled egg or cold 
fish. 

Mint Sauce. — Four dessertspoonfuls of chopped mint, 
two dessertspoonfuls of sugar, half a pint of vinegar. Use only 
young fresh leaves, pick them off the stalk, mince very fine, 
and pour over them the sugar and vinegar. Make two or 
three hours before using. Add more augar if liked. 

White Sauce. — One quarter of a pound of butter, one 
tablespoonful of flour, half a gill of water, half a spoonful of 
vinegar, a very little nutmeg, salt to taste. Mix flour and 
■water to smooth paste. Put all in a saucepan, do not let it 
boil but simmer until it thickens. 

Caper Sauce. — To above " white .sauce" add three table- 
spoonfuls of capers, and one tablespoonful of their liquor. 
Served with boiled mutton. For fish add to this, pepper, 
salt, and anchovv essence. 



:| 



COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



TESTED RECIPES.-SAUCES. 



43 



Lobster Sauce.— To the " white sauce " (already given) 
add square cut pieces of boiled or canned lobster, three 
tablespoonfuls of cream, cayenne to taste. One tablesnoon- 
ful of anchovy sauce improves this. 

Temperance Pudding Sauce. — One cupful of maple 
syrup, half a cupful of water, size of a plum of butter, boil ; 
add nutmeg and vinegar to taste. Thicken with a little 
corn flour, and serve. 

CuRRV Gravv. — Three pints of stock, two onions cut 
small, two apples chopped, one teaspoonful of sugar, one 
heaping tablespoonful of curry powder. If the stock is not 
rich put in a bit of butter. Let boil for an hour or longer, 
then strain through a colander, salt to taste. If cold meat 
be used, put into the gravy to heat ; if fresh, let it stew until 
tender and then add a little flour to thicken. Serve with rice. 

Lemon Sauce. — One half cupful of butter, one cupful of 
sugar, yolks of two eggs, one teaspoonful of corn starch. 
Beat eggs and sugar until light, add grated rind and juice 
of one lemon, stir the whole into three gills of boiling water 
until it thickens. 

Pudding Sauce — One half cupful of butter, same of sugar, 
beaten to a froth, put in a dish and set in a pan of hot water, 
add a tablespoonful of hot water, flavor. Stir one way until 
it comes to a light foam. 



i^ 






4-4I 



Ha3 all ingredients of bjest quality. 



44 



PEERLESS COOK BOOK. 



PIES. 

CocoANUT Pie. — Three cupfuls flour, two cupfuls sugar^ 
half c-upful of butter, one cupful of milk, four eggs, two tea- 
.spoonfuls cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of soda. Van- 
illa to flavor. For the inside — whites of two eggs, two 
cupfuls powdered sugar, flavor with vanilla. Cover the cake 
with a layer of this, then one of grated cocoanut ; cover the 
top of the cake in the same way. 

Cream Pie— One cupful sugar, heaping cupful flour,, 
three eggs, butter size of an egg, teaspoonful cream of tartar,, 
half teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little hot water added, 
just before going into the oven. Cream : two cupfuls milk, 
two eggs, two tablespoonfuls flour, half cupful sugar. 

Lemon Pie. — Three eggs, separating yolks and whites, 
one lemon, grated rind and juice, one cupful sugar, one 
teaspoonful corn starch wet in water, add beaten whites last, 
and fill the pie with one cup cold water. Bake like a cus- 
tard pie. Take from the oven while it is only firm enough 
to tremble. 

Lkmov Pie.— Si.\ lemons, four cupfuls of sugar, six eggs, 
two ounces butter, (irate the. rind of lemons, and strain 
the juice, rub the butter and sugar together, then add the 
eggs well beaten, then the lemon. This makes two pics. 
Line the pKite with rich paste, fill with the mixture. Bake 
without top crust. 

Lemom Pie.— One lemon, one egg, one cupful sugar, one 
and a half powdered cracker. Beat the egg and sugar to- 
gether, put in the juice of the lemon, then the rind chopped 
fine, and last the cracker. Beat all .ogether. After 



' 1^ 



COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



TESTED KECIPES.-riES. 



45 



the pie is l)aked, beat tlic white of one egg and one half 
cupful of sugar, (luite stiff, and pour over the pie, then set 
in the oven a few minutes. This will make one pie. 

Lemon Pie.— Six apples, four lemons, four cupfuls sugar, 
four eggs ; grate the lemons and apples. Extra. 

Marlborough Pik.— Two pounds of applf, stewed and 
strained, one pound butter, melted, one pound sugar, twelve 
eggs, the juice of two lemons, five tablespoonfuls cream, a 
little nutmeg and cinnamon. Hake with a nice paste. 
This aniount will fill five medium sized deep plates. 

Mock Mince Pie.— One cupful sugar, one-half cui)ful of 
butter, one half cupful of molasses, one cupful coVl water, 
one cupful raisins, one cupful currants, three powdered 
crackers, two eggs, one lemon, salt, spice of all kinds, one 
teaspoonful each. This quantity will make three pies. 

Mock Mince Pie, No. 2.— Two eggs, one cupful raisins, 
one cupful vinegar, one cupful sugar, one cupful molasses, 
six pounded crackers, a teaspoonful of each kind of spice. 

Squash Pie.— Take one squash of medium size, peef, 
core, steam and strain. When cold, thin with milk to the 
consistency of thick apple sauce. Allow four eggs to one 
quart of milk. Beat eggs, and add sugar, salt and lemon 
to taste. Very nice. 



*^;* 



•'!l 



Should always be used. 



I, 



46 



I'KERLKSS COOK BOOK. 



I !r 



:!, 



SALADS, PICKLES, &c. 

Brine for Pork to Fry.— 'i'wo quarts of salt, three 
pints of molasses, four ounces saltpetre, two ounces cloves, 
ten (|uarts water. 

Chicken or Lobster Salad.— The meat of two lob- 
sters or two chickens, three-quarters the same bulk of celery, 
yolks of five eggs, two teaspoonfuls mustard, one teaspoon 
ful pepper, half teaspoonful salt foi lobster, whole teaspoonful 
salt for chicken, one-third cupful of vinegar. One small 
bottle of sweet oil,stirred gradually into the egg, a few drops at 
a time. After it begins to thicken, add the other ingredients, 
well mixed in the vinegar. 

Chili Sauce. — Forty-eight ripe tomatoes, ten peppers, 
two large onions, two quarts of vinegar, four tablespoonfuls 
salt, two teaspoonfuls each cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg and 
allspice, one cupful of sugar. Slice the tomatoes, chop 
peppers and onions together, add vinegar and spices, and 
boil until thick enough. Mustard and curry powder im- 
proves this. 

Chow Chow.— Two quarts green tomatoes, same of 
onions and pickling bean.s, two dozen seed cucumbers, half 
dozen peppers, one head red cabbage, one gallon of vine- 
gar, spice to taste. Chop fine and boil three hours. 

Cream Soda. — Three pounds of white sugar, two ounces 
tartaric acid, three pints water, juice of one lemon. Boil 
five minutes, when nearly cold add the beaten whites of 
three eggs, half a cupfi 1 flour mixed with the egg, and half 
an ounce of checkerberry. 






COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



TESTKD RECII'ES.-SALADS, PICKLKS, &c. 



47 






Currant Shrub. — Put the currants in a porcelain kettle 
to heat, in order to extract the juice. To each pint of juice 
add three-(iuarters of a pound white sugar. Cook long 
enough to dissolve the sugar thoroughly. Bottle and seal 
tight. This is a delicious drink when used with equal 
quantity of ice water. 

Drkssino for Salad. — Five tahlespoonfuls oil, half a pint 
of strong vinegar, two teaspoonfuls mustard, one tea- 
spoonful salt,.half u jaspoonful of pepper, add little cayenne 
to taste, four eggs well beaten. Put vinegar on the stove in 
kettle of hot water and let it come to scald, add the rest of 
ingredients and stir till it thickens. 

Dressing for Cabbage.— One or two eggs, beaten, half 
teacupful vinegar, one tablespoonful mustard, butter half the 
size of an egg. Thin with milk or cream— if milk, more but- 
ter should be used — one teaspoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls 
sugar, pepper. Pour over chopped cabbage. 

Dressing for Lobster Salad. — Four eggs, one tea- 
spoonful pepper, one teaspoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls 
mustard, five tab'jspoonfuls butter. Beat all together, until 
it thickens up smooth. 

Grape Pickle. — Four (juarts grapes, four pounds sugar, 
one-half pint of vinegar, one tablespoonful of ground cloves. 
S(iuee/,e the pulp from the skins, put the pulp in a kettle 
with water enough to keep from scorching, and boil until 
you can easily separate the seeds by rubbing through a 
coarse sieve. Then put skins, pulp and juice together and 
boil fifteen minutes. 

Hodge Podge. — Two quarts of chopped green tomatoes, 
two of onions, two green peppers, mix together, 'i'o the 
six quarts add one pint brown mustard seed, one cupful of 
salt. After standing three or four days, add good cider 
vinegar sufhcient to cover it. Keep in dry place. 



rl 



Is entirely free from Alum. 



i H 



4H 



PEERLKSS COOK BOOK. 



I.eontine's Lomstkr Salad. — ^Two medium sized lob- 
sters, one cupful vinegar, piece of butter si/e of an egg, put 
them on to boil. Beat up one or two eggs, one teaspoonful 
each of salt, sugar, mustard, curry, half teasijoonful pepper, 
jui<X' of one lemon. Put the mixture into the vinegar and 
cook until it thickens, adding rather more than half a cupful 
of milk. Add lettuce or celery if you choose. Ferj' nice. 

Ohio Catsup. — Take three dozen ripe cucumbers, eight 
white onions, jieel them and chop as fme as possible. 
Sprinkle over them one half cupful salt. Put the whole into 
a sieve and let them drain eight hours. Take one cupful of 
imustard seed, one half cupful of pepper and mix together. 
Put in ." jar, and cover with strong vinegar. Close tight, 
and let it stand three or four days, when it will be ready for 
use. 

Pickle for Beef. — Four gallons of water, five pounds 
salt, one and a half ounces of saltpetre, two large spoonfuls 
soda, two teacupfuls molasses. Boil and skim, pour over 
beef when cold. 

Pickle for Butter. — Two ciuarts of salt, one quart of 
sugar, one tablespoonful saltpetre to four (juartsof Doiling 
water. 

Pickled Cucumhers. — To each one hundred cucumbers 
put a pint of salt and pour on boiling water sufficient to 
cover. Cover them tight so as to prevent the steam from 
escaping, and let them stand twenty-four hours. Take them 
out and after wiping dry, (care being taken not to break the 
skin), place them in the keg or firkin in which they are to 
be kept. Then pour boiling vinegar over them, (if spice is 
to be used it should be boiled in the vmegar), throw in 
brown and white mustard seed and close the keg tight. In 
a fortnight they are ready for use. Should scum afterward 
arise, strip horse r^^i'sH mr-.t ;\nd throw in. 



COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



TESTKI) KIXIl'KS.- SALADS, I'lCKLKS, \c. 49 

Pickled Eggs. -Moil one <lo/.en fresh eggs fi*"teon min- 
utes, put them in cold water to cool, take off the shells and 
place eggs in a jar, cover them with good vinegar. These 
are nice for picnics. 

PicKLK FOR Ha.ms.— One quart of salt, one pint of 
molasses, one pound of sugar, two ounces of saltpetre. 
Hams may be kept in this pickle three or four weeks before 
smoking. 

Pickled Lemons.— One do/en lemons, one half < upful 
salt, one onion cut fine, one nutmeg grated, onetablespoon- 
ful of allspice, one half tablespoonful of ground cloves, same 
of ginger, one half teaspoonful cayenne pepper, one teacup- 
ful of white mustard seed, three teaspoonfuls of brown sugar. 
Score the lemons, put them into stone jars, alternating with 
the ingredients. Cover the wl with cider vinegar, put 
the jars into kettles of boiling water. Boil four hours, then 
seal tightly; let them .stand three months before using. 

Pickled OysTERS.- Simmer the oysters in their own 
liquor. Take out the ysters, and into the liquor put pepper 
and salt, cloves and nutmeg to taste, boil up once and pour 
over the oysters Cooked early in the morning, ready tor 
dinner. Will keej) two or three days. 

Pickled Peaches. —Seven pounds of peeled peaches, 
three and a half pounds sugar, one pint vinegar, cloves or 
root ginger for spice. Boil and add fruit until scalded, then 
put in jars and pour on the scalding licjuor, and cover 
tightly. 

No. 2.— To every quart of vinegar add one pound sugar. 
Scald and pour hot over the peaches for six successive 
mornings. 

Pickled Tonoiie. — Takp n mmpH K«pf f^r,r»n^ ""H 
boil until tender, take off the skin, put it into a stone basin 



Is a healthful suhstitute for Shortening. 



50 



PEERLESS COOK BOOK. 



km 



or jar and cover it with good cider vinegar, add a little all- 
spice, whole peppers and cloves, not more than one dozen 
of each. 

Raspberrv Vinegar.— To ten quarts berries put one 
and a half pints good vinegar, let them stand two nights ; to 
each quart of juice, put one pound white sugar. Boil over 
a slow fire fifteen minutes, skim thoroughly, and when cool 
bottle. 

Ripe Cucumber Sweet Pickle. — Pare and slice ripe 
cucumbers and let them stand over night in very salt water. 
Take one gallon vinegar, one pound of brown sugar and 
spice, for a syrup. Use whole spice and let them remain. 
When the syrup is boiling put in the cucumbers, boil till 
done. This looks and tastes very nice. 

Salad.— Chop the cabbage, taking out the core and 
coarse parts of the leaves. Sprinkle with salt, black pepper, 
dry mustard and celery — salt to suit youi taste. To. good 
sized cabbage beat two eggs light, add Vwc- cupfuls of vinegar 
and a piece of butter the size of an egg, heat until it boils 
and thickens a little, stirring carefully all the time, then 
pour it hot over the cabbage, mixing thoroughly. When 
cold it is fit to eat. Mosf excellent. 

Salad Dressing. — Yolks of six eggs, one teaspoonful of 
mustard, one teaspoonful salt, one teaspoonful pepper, one 
and a half teaspoonfuls sweet oil, stirred gradually into the 
egg, a few drops at a time, until perfectly smooth, then 
add half cupful of vinegar. Reserve a little of the dressing 
without the vinegar, to which add capers and olives, split. 

Spiced Currants. — Five pounds currants, four pounds 
brown sugar, one pint vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of cloves, 
two of cinnamon. Boil slowly two hours. 

COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



\ 



TESTED KECIPES.-SALADC, PICKLES, &c. 51 



> 



Sweet Pickled Pears. — One quart vinegar, three 
pounds brown sugar to six pounds pears. After the pears 
are peeled put them into cold water, and let them stand 
awhile, then steam until done. Stick three cloves in each 
pear. Boil syrup and drop the pears in. 

Sweet Tomato Pickle. — One i)eck of green toma- 
toes, sprinkle on a little salt and let them stand over night, 
then strain off the water, put them in a kettle with enough 
vinegar to cover them, add half pound or quarter pound 
sugar, two cupfuls white mustard seed, one half cupful 
cloves, one cupful allspice, and a little mace put in a bag. 
Six green peppers, six onions ; cook three hours over a slow 
fire. 

No. 2. — Seven pounds of tomatoes, three pounds of 
sugar, one quart of vinegar, one ounce each of cloves and 
cinnamon. Boil three hours. Na^er ferments. 

Tomato Pickles.— Cut one peck of green tomatoes in 
slices, and put in a stone jar, cover with one pint of molas- 
ses. Skim when it ferments, and your pickles are ready for 
use. Very nice. 

Tomato Catsup. — Cut up one gallon ripe tomatoes, put 
in a porcelain kettle and boil. One-half pint of sugar, one- 
half pint strong cider vinegar, one tablespoonful salt, one 
teaspoonful cloves, one of allspice, one-quarter teaspoonful 
cayenne pepper. Boil the tomatoes half an hour, then run 
them through a sieve. Put them on with spice, vinegar and 
sugar and boil until there is about two (juarts and a pint. 
Cool and bottle. 

Tomato Ketchup. -Take one bushel of ripe tomatoes 
and five onions, boil until soft, squeeze through a hair sieve, 
add one-half pint salt, one-(iuarter pound of alls[)ice, two 



Once used is always preferred. 





i 








. 


■ 


j 


* 


i 




1 




iij 



52 



PEERLESS COOK BOOK. 



r 



ounces cloves, two ounces cayenne pepper, two tablespoon- 
fuls black pepper, two quarts vinegar. Mix and boil three 
hours. This will fill twelve bottles. 

No. 2. — One bushel tomatoes, half a gallon of cider vine- 
gar, one pint salt, one pound allspice, one pound pepper, one 
quart small white onions. From fifty to one hundred 
Spanish peppers. Boil eight hours. 

Welsh Rarf-bit.— One-quarter pound of nice cheese, 
cut in thin slices, put into a spider, pouring over it a large cup 
of milk, stirring until the cheese is dissolved, one-quarter tea- 
spoonful of dry mustard, a dash of pepper, and a pinch of 
salt. Stir the mixture all the time till dissolved, add three 
pounded crackers, and a piece of butter the size of a butter- 
nut. As soon as they are stirred in, turn into warm dish 
and seive. Nice for tea. 



i 



COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



TESTED RECIPES.— BREAD. 



53 



BREAD. 

Wheat Brkad and Rolls. — One cake Fleischman's 
compressed yeast, three pints warm milk or milk and water, 
one tablespoonful salt. Soak the yeast in a cupful of 
the warm water o j hour ; add to remainder of milk and 
flour to ma' tiff batter. Stir the yeast until well dis- 

solved and '-^ lo the batter. Stand in a warm place over 
night. Early in the morning add flour to knead, and let 
it rise two or three hours. When well risen, knead well 
and make into loaves. These should be ready for the 
oven in about an hour. Care should be taken to keep 
the tins well covered and out of any draught or cold air. 

For the rolls, save a piece of dough about the size of a 
small loaf. Work in lard or butter the size of an egg. Let 
it rise once more and cut into pieces the ' size of a lemon, 
mould in the hand into biscuits a little longer than wide ; 
thick at the ends and thin in the middle. Fold over and 
place the rolls quite near together on a round tin plate. 
Let them rise, and bake about twenty minutes in a brisk 
oven. 

Bannock. — One pint Indian meal scalded with one quart 
milk, six or eight eggs, a little sugar and salt. Stir in eggs 
when cool, and bake in hot oven. 

Blueberry Cake. — One quart flour, halfa cupful butter, 
one and a half cupfuls white sugar, one cupful sweet milk, 
two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar^ one teaspoonful soda, two 
eggs. Blueberries, 

Is more economical than any other 






ni 



m 



54 



PEI iLESS COOK BOOK. 



I 



i 

! 



No. 2. — One cupful milk, three cupful^ flour, one egg, 
salt, two tablespoonfuls sugar, one of butter, two teaspoonfuls 
cream of tartar, one of soda, one cupful blueberries. 

Breakfast Puffs. — One pint milk, two eggs, little salt,, 
teaspoonful soda, two of cream of tartar, butter size of a 
walnut, melted, put all into the milk, then stir thoroughly 
in a pint and a half of flour. Bake in cups. 

Brown Bread Togus. — Three cupfuls sweet milk, one 
cupful sour milk, three cupfuls Indian meal, one cupful 
flour, one cupful molasses, one teaspoonful salt, one of soda 
dissolved in a little warm water. 

No. 2, Steamed. — Three cUpfuls of Indian meal, two 
cupfuls of rye meal, one cupful flour, four tablespoonfuls 
mciasses, two tablespoonfuls yeast, one teaspoonful salt. 
.Stir it up at night with warm water. In the morning add 
scant teaspoonful saleratus. Steam all the forenoon. 

No. 3.-— Three cupfuls Indian meal, same of rye, half 
cupful molasses, one teaspoonful salt, one teaspoonful sod% 
wet with milk enough to make a stiff batter. Steam five or 
six hours. 

No. 4. — Three cupfuls sour milk, two-third* cupful mo- 
lasses, one of water, two of Indian meal, two of Graham 
flour, two teaspoonfuls soda, salt. Steam three hours. 

Buckwheat Cakes. — Two cupfuls buckwheat, one of 
white flour, one-half cup yeast In the morning, add two 
teaspoonfuls sugar, and one teaspoonful soda. 

California Biscuit. — One half cupful of sugar^ two 
cupfuls milk, two eggs, piece of butter size of an egg, one 
quart flour, one teaspoonful soda, two teaspoonfuls cream of 
tartar. 

Corn Cake. — One pint sour milk, one pint Indian meaU 
one pint flour, two tablespoonfuls sugar, salt, one egg, a 
small piece of butter, one teaspoonful soda. 



COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



TESTED RECIPES.-EREAD. 



55 



Egg Pop-overs. — Three cupfuls flour, three cupfuls 
milk, three eggs. Beat eggs twenty minutes, add milk and 
flour. Bake in a quick oven. 

Flannel Cakes. — To two ounces of butter add a pint 
of hot milk to melt the butter, a pint of cold milk, five eggs, 
flour enough to make a stiff batter, a teaspoonful of salt, 
two tablespoonfuls yeast ; set it to rise in a warm place 
about three hours ; butter the griddle and pour on the 
batter in omall cakes. 

French Toast. — Heat two or three eggs and stir into a 
pint of milk, with a pinch of salt. Take thin slices of stale 
bread and dip into it. As you take out the slices set them 
up on the edge a minute to drain off some of the milk, then 
brown on lioth sides on a buttered griddle. Lay them in a 
hot covered dish, and eat with syrup or butter and sugar. 

Graham Bread. — Take ecjual (juantities Graham meal 
and flour, add shortening and yeast, mix stiff as flour bread 
and treat in the same way. 

Graham Rolls. — Two cupfuls of wheat meal, one and 
a half cupfuls flour, salt, three-fourths cupful sugar, two and 
one-half cupfuls sour milk, one teaspoonful soda. 

Indian Breakfast Cake. — Two cupfuls Indian meal, 
one-third cupful flour, two and a half cupfuls sour milk, one 
egg, and soda to sweeten the milk. 

Indian Cake. — Two cupfuls meal, one cupful flour, one 
cupful cream, one cupful milk, two-thirds cupful sugar, three 
eggs, one teaspoonful soda, one of salt. 

Indian Drop Cake. — Three cupfuls of meal, one cupful 
of flour, one pint sour milk, two eggs, two large spoonfuls 
outter, one cupful sugar, soda enough to sweeten the milk. 

Muffins. — One cupful sweet milk and an iron spoonful 
extra, three cupfuls flour, one egg, two teaspoonfuls cream 



i • 



u 



ii! 



Never disappoints the user. 



56 



PEERLESS COOK BOOK. 



r- 



li^ 



of tartar, one of soda, butter size of small egg, one table- 
spoonful sugar. Beat egg, sugar, butter and cream of tartar 
together. Stir in part of milk while putting in the flour, 
dissolve sc -^a in remainder of the milk and stir in after it is 
well mixed. 

No. 2, Flour.— One egg, one pint of flour, one and a half 
pints milk, one teasv oonful butter, rubbed into the flour, 
one teaspoonful cream of tartar, half teaspoonful soda. 

No. 3, Graham. — One cupful of flour, two cupfuls wheat- 
meal, two tablespoonfuls sugar, one teaspoonful salt, half 
cupful yeast, well mixed. Add half teaspoonful sjda dis- 
solved in a little milk. Not too stiff", almost thin as a 
batter. 

No. 4, Graham.— One egg, half cupful sugar, butter 
size of an egg, one and a half cupfuls sour milk, one cupful 
wheat flour, one and a half cupfuls Graham flour, half a tea- 
spoonful soda. Bake in hot roll pans. 

No. 5, Indian Meal.— One cupful meal scalded in 
one pint milk, butter size of an egg, one tablespoonful sugar 
salt, one egg, half cupful yeast, and flour enough for rather 
a stiff" batter. Bake in a quick oven. 

No. 6 Raised.— One pint sweet milk, half cupful of 
yeast, two tablespoonfuls sugar, flour enough to make a 
batter a little thicker than for fritters. Set to rise over night, 
and in the morning add two eggs and bake in a quick oven. 

No. 7, Raisf.d.— One quart flour, half a teacupful yeast, 
two well beaten eggs, op and a half pints warm milk, half 
a gill melted batter. Let rise, and when light, bake in rings 
well buttered. 

No. 8, Rve.— One pint of sour milk, one pint rye meal, 
half a cupful molasses, one egg, one teaspoonful saleratus, 
one cupful flour. Bake for half an hour. 



f 



COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



TESTED RECIPES.— BREAD. 



57 



f 



Omelette. — Seven eggs, one cupful milk. Beat the 
yolks first, scald the milk with a piece of butter, and pour 
over the beaten yolks, pepper. Pour into a buttered fry- 
ing pan, and while browning, beat the whites to a stiff froth, 
put on one-half the yolks, and fold the other half over the 
beaten whites. Serve at once. Light and delicious. 

No. 2. — Six eggs, the whites and yolks beaten separately, 
one cupful warm milk, one tablespoonful melted butter, one 
teaspoonful flour, wet to a paste, salt, pepper, add whites of 
eggs last. Bake fifteen minutes in a quick oven. 

No. 3. — One cupful of milk, two slices of bread broken 
in milk, small piece of butter, a little salt, yolks of eight 
eggs, lastly add whites well beaten. Drop in hot pans, 
when baked on bottom, set in the oven to brown on top. 

Pancakes. — One egg, one cupful milk, one pint flour, 
half teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, salt. 
Drop from teaspoon in hot lard. Eat with syrup for break- 
fast. 

No. 2. — One egg, a little nutmeg, two-thirds cupful of 
sugar, one cupful milk, one teaspoonful soda, two teaspoon- 
fuls cream of tartar, three cupfuls of flour. Drop in hot fat. 

Parker House Rolls. — Three-quarters of a cupful 
yeast, three-quarters of a cupful butter, three pints flour, one 
tablespoonful sugar, one teaspoonful salt. Scald the milk 
and cool it, rise all day, cut out at night, and rise until 
morning. Bake in a quick oven. Fold over the edges, and 
put a bit of butter between the folds. As biscuit, just as 
nice with less butter. 

Potato Cakes. — Half dozen of common sized potatoes, 
boiled and mashed smooth, one spoonful of flour, two eggs, 
salt and pepper. Stir until quite soft, fry like fritters. 

Made only by W. D. McLAREN. 






58 



PEERLESS COOK BOOK. 



Potato Rolls. — Boil one pint of sliced and peeled 
potatoes, pour off the water, mash ^.ne, add one pint and a 
half of water, then strain. One-half cupful sugar, one table- 
spoonful lard, one teacupful yeast. Rise over night. This 
makes one loaf and a pan of rolls. 

Rusks.— Make a sponge of two cupfuls of milk, one cup- 
ful yeast, salt, flour enough for a stiff batter. Set it to rise 
at noon ; in the evening mix in a cupful of butter, two cup- 
fuls sugar, two eggs well beaten. I.et it stand all night to 
rise, in the morning mould into cakes, put them into pans 
so as not to touch, let them rise again, then bake. A little 
cinnamon may be added if desired. 

Squash Biscuit.— One cupful sifted squash, one-half 
cupful sugar, one cupful milk, one-half cupful yeast, one-half 
teaspoonful saleratus, butter size of a large egg. Flour to 
roll out. 

Squash Fritters. — One pint sifted squash, one quart 
milk, three eggs, one teaspoonful soda, salt, enough flour to 
make little stiffer batter than for common fritters. 

Squash Griddle Cakes.— One cupful of sifted squash, 
one cupful sweet milk, one egg, flour enough to make them 
the right consistency. 

Tea Rolls. — Boil one cupful of milk, let it get cold, lake 
one quart flour and rub in one-half tablespoonful lard, make 
a hole in the middle of the flour and pour in the milk and 
one-quarter cupful yeast and the same amount of sugar. 
5 ' t ihis stand over night ; in the morning knead it again 
:.]*'; urm into rolls or biscuits, let it rise until tea-time and 
bake in a moderately heated oven. 

Waffles.— One quart flour, little salt, large teaspoonful 



of hnftfr. fwn t^aue half ^-iji-^nl tJ<»ocf 



1 «f 



Sit CiS.y, 



COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



.. 



TESTED RECIPES.— BREAD. 



59 



.. 



No. 2. — Three pints milk, half a cupful of boiled rice, 
while hot put in a piece of Ijutter size of an egg, half a cup- 
ful yeast, salt, flour to make a stiff batter. Beat the egg 
very light and add the last thing. Raise over night or 
during the day. 

No. 3, (iERMAN. — Half a pound butter stirred to a cream, 
yolks of five eggs, mixed with half a pound of flour, half a 
pint of milk stirred in gradually, and liastly the whites of the 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth and beaten iito the butter. 

Whkat Gems. — Stir slowly into cold water, unbolted 
wheat flour enough to make it the consistency of hasty 
pudding, a little salt, and bake as muffins in a very quick 
oven. 

Yeast, splendid. — Boil eight large potatoes — mash fine 
— add one pint boiling water, one cupful of sugar, nearly 
half cupful salt, stir until dissolved. Add one pint of cold 
water, strain through a sieve, add half cupful yeast, and set 
to rise ten or twelve hours before bottling. A pinch 
of hops may be boiled and strained over it with the boiling 
water. 

No. 2. — Grate four large-sized raw pptatoes. Have 
ready one pint boiling water in which a small pinch of 
hops has lieen boiled, strain it over the potato. Set in on 
the fire to cook five minutes, then add one-half cupful 
sugar, one-quarter cupful of salt, one pint of cold water, 
one-half cupful of yeast ; let it rise and cork tightly. This 
yeast will keep three months. 

No. 3, wiTHOu r Hops. — Two large potatoes grated, one 
large tablespoonful sugar, one even tablespoonful salt. Pour 
over this a quart of boiling water, when cold add a gill of 
yeast. For bread — a gill of yeast to a quart of water. 



I ti 



Is best in use. 



60 



PEERLESS COOK BOOK. 



CAKES. 

Wedding Cake. — Four pounds flour, four pound.s sugar, 
three pounds butter, forty eggs, five pounds stoned raisins, 
three pounds currants, one ounce mace, one-half ounce of 
nutmeg, four teaspoonfuls essence of lemon, four teaspoon- 
fuls cream of tartar stirred in the flour, two teaspoonfuls 
soda, four dessertspoonfuls baking powder. Beat butter and 
sugar to a cream ; beat whites and yolks separately. Add 
the flour gradually, then the spice, and the soda. Bake 
two and a half hours. 

Almond Cake. — One and a half cupfuls sugar, half cup- 
ful butter, two-thirds cupful milk, three cupfuls flour, whites 
of seven eggs, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, one-half tea- 
spoonful soda, small cui)ful almonds blanched and pounded, 
one large teaspoonful of almond essence. Flavor frosting 
with rose water. 

No. 2. — One cupful butter, two cupfuls sugar, three and 
one-half cupfuls flour, one-half cupful of milk, whites of 
eight eggs, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, one teaspoonful 
soda. Flavor with almonds. 

No. 3. — Two teacupfuls sugar, one cupful but-ter, whites 
of six eggs, one cupful milk, three and a half cupfuls flour, 
heaping teaspoonful cream of tartar, half teaspoonful of soda, 
three teaspoonfuls almond extract, half a pound blanched 
almonds on top. Sprinkle with sugar. 

Almond Silver. — One coffee cupful of sugar, one-half 
cupful of butter, beaten together to a cream. One-half cup- 
ful milk, one-half teaspoonful cream of tartar, one-quarter 
teaspoonful soda. Add whites of four eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth, and two cupfuls flour. Flavor with almond. 



COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



TKSTED KKCirES.— CAKES. 



61 



4 



Almond ok White.— Whites of six eggs, two cupfuls 
sugar, one cupful butter, one cupful milk, three cupfuls 
flour, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, half teaspoonful soda 
dissolved in the milk, two teaspoonfuls almond essence. 

Boston (;iNGERBBKAD.--One pound of sugar, one pound 
of butter, two pounds of flour, six eggs, one pint molasses, 
one gill of water, one teaspoonful soda, two teaspoonfuls 
each of allspice, cloves and mace, one quart of fruit, half a 
pound of citron. Bake in two loaves three hours. 

Boston Puffs.— Halt a pint boiling milk, piece of butter 
size of walnut, salt, one and a half cupfuls of flour, scalded 
together. When cool, beat in three eggs separately. Fry 
in lard, as pancakes, then roll in sugar and cinnamon 
mixed. 

Bread Cake.— Three cupfuls raised dough, two cupfuls 
sugar, one-half cupful butter, one cupful raisins, one tea- 
spoonful soda, spice to taste. 

Bride's Cake.— One-half cupful butter, two cupfuls 
sugar, whites of five eggs, one cupful cold water, three cui> 
fuls fl(-ur, one teaspoonful soda, two cream of tartar, sift last 
two into the flour. Flavor with almond. Makes on-; sheet. 

No. 2.— Whites of four eggs, one cupful sugar, half a cup- 
ful butter, one-half cupful of milk, two cupfuls flour, two 
teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, half teaspoonful soda. Fu^vor 
with almond. 

Bridgewater Cake.— Two cupfuls of sugar, two-thirds 
cupful of butter, three eggs, three and a half cupfuls of flour, 
one cupful sweet milk, half a teaspoonful soda, one ieaspoo»- 
ful cream of tartar. 

Buns — Three cupfuls milk, one cupful yeast, two cupfuls 
of sugar, flour enough to make a stiff batter. Rise over 
night, then add cupful butter, cupful sugar, nutmeg, tea 



Is rich in raising power. 



=ti 



H 



62 



PKKRLESS COOK BOOK. 



m 



spoonful f:nda, more flour to make as stiff as l)read. After 
a second rising cut out and rise before baking. Currants if 
you choose. 

Chocolatk Cake. — One cupful butter, two cupfuls of 
sugar, three and a half cupfuls flour, five eggs, leaving out 
whites of t\v(j, one cupful of milk, one teaspoonful cream of 
tartar, half teaspoonful soda. Frosting. — While hot, 
froiit with the following : whites of two eggs, one and a half 
cupfuls sugar, six tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate. 

No. 2. — One cupful sugar, half cupful butter, two cupfuls 
of milk, two cupfuls flour, two eggs, one teaspoonful soda. 
Grate two .scjuares of chocolate, mi.\ with another half cupful 
of milk, add yolk of one egg, one teaspoonful vanilla, and 
sweeten to taste. Boil the mixture until soft, add to the 
other, bake three-quarters of an hour. 

Citron Cake. — One pound sugar, three-quarters pound 
butter, one pound flour, eight eggs, half cupful sour milk, 
one-half teaspoonful cream of tartar, one teas})oonful of soda, 
one pound citron. 

CocoANU r. — One cupful of sugar, two cupfuls flour, two 
cupfuls cocoanut, two tablespoonfuls butter, two eggs, one 
teaspoonful cream of tartar, half teasix)onful soda. Soak 
the cocoa in a cupful of milk. 

No. 2. — Two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful butter, one 
cupful milk, four cupfuls flour, one teaspoonful soda, two 
cream of tartar, whites of seven eggs, one cupful grated 
cocoanut. Frosting. — Whites of three eggs, one cupful of 
grated cocoanut, sugar as for other frosting. 

No. 3. — Four cupfuls flour, three cupfuls sugar, one cup- 
ful butter, one cupful milk, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, 
one-half teaspoonful soda, five eggs, one cocoanut urated, 
juice of a lemon. 



COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



TESTED RECII'ES -CAKES. 



(53 



No. 4. — One pound sugar, one-half pound of butter, 
three-quarters pound fUmr, five eggs, one coroanut grated. 

Cookies, rich. — One-half pound butter, one-iialf pound 
sugar, two eggs, reserving white of one egg, scant teaspoonful 
soda. Roll very thin, lay two or *' ree iianched almonds 
on cake before baking. Wet sodci in i droj.' jf milk. Flour 
sufficient to roll. 

No. 2. — One-half cupful butter, o.i ••.• pi ul sugar, one-half 
■cupful milk, one egg, flour en(»ugh to roll 

No. 3. — Three eggs, one pound butter, three cupfuls of 
sugar, one ruijful sour milk, mace. Sprinkle sugar over the 
•cakes when risen in the oven. 

No 4, Rice Flour. — One-half pound of sugar, one-half 
pound rice flour, four eggs. 

Cold Water Cake. -Two cupfuls sugar, one cupful 
butter, one cupful cold water, four cupfuls fluur, one ( upful 
■each of raisins and currants, three eggs, one teaspoonful 
soda, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, one teaspoonful each 
of all kinds spice, salt. Put all together and stir well with 
the hand until sinooth. 

Composition. — Two cupfuls butter, three cupfuls of sugar, 
one cupful milk, five cupfuls flour, five egps, one pound 
raisins, one nutmeg, one teaspoonful soda. 

Corn Starch. — One cupful butter, two cupfuls sugar, 
one cupful sweet milk, one cupful corn-starch, two cupfuls 
flour, whites of seven eggs, one teaspoonful soda, two cream 
of tartar. Flavor with lemon or almond. Frosting will 
improve it. Fery nice. 

Crullers. — Three tablespoonfuls of sugar, three table- 
spoonfuls of lard, three eggs ; mix like doughtnuts, fry 
quickly, turn every second. 









i 



Is thoroughly healthful. 



64 



PEERLESS COOK BOOK. 



Cream Cakes. — One pint hot water, one teaspoonful 
soda, dry, half pound butter, three quarters pound flour, tent 
eggs. Boil the water and butter together and stir in the 
flour while boiling. Let it cool, then stir in the eggs one at 
a time, without beating. Drop on butten d tins and bake 
in a hot oven. Inside. — One cupful flour, two cupfuls 
sugar, one quart milk, four eggs, a pinch of salt. Boil the 
milk, beat the flour, sugar and eggs together, and stir into 
the milk while boiling. F.avor. 

Crumpets. — One cupful brown sugar, one cupful chopped 
raisins, one-half cupful of butter, one egg, half teaspoonful 
soda in a large spoonful of milk. All kinds of spice. Roll 
thin. 

Currant Cake. — Three-quarters of a cupful of butter, 
two cupfuls sugar, three cupfuls flour, one cupful of milk, 
one and a half cupfuls currants, four eggs, one teaspoonful 
soda, two cream of tartar. 

Dayton.— One cupful of butter, two cupfuls sugar, three 
cupfuls flour, five eggs, one-half cupful milk, one teaspoonful 
cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda. This cake is 
very nice spiced a good deal, with raisins and other fruit 
added. 

Delicate. — Two cupfuls sugar, one-half cupful of butter, 
whites of six eggs, three-quarters « ipful sweet milk, nearly 
three cupfuls flour, half teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful 
cream of tartar, lemon for flavoring. 

No. ^.- -One and n half cupfuls sugar, one-half cupful of 
butter, one-half cupful milk, half teaspoonful soda, two cup-^ 
fuls of flour, into wh h rub one teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
Add last the whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 
Flavor with lemon. 



COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



TKSTKl) KECII'KS.-CAKKS. 



65 



Deucious — Two cupfuls sugar, one cupful of butter, one 
cupful milk, three cupfuls flour, three eggs, halfa teasjwonful 
of soda, scant teaspoonful credm of tartar. Stir the butter 
and sugar together, add beaten yolks, then the beaten whites. 
Dissolve the soda in the milk, rub cream of tartar in tls. 
flour, and add the last thing. Fery nice. 

DouGHNU'Js.— Two cupfuls sugar, two cupfuls of sour 
milk, two eggs, small piece melted butter, one teaspoonful 
soda, a little salt. Make very soft, better to stand a few 
days before frying. 

No. 2, Aunt Caroline's. — Two qiiai;ts flour, two and a 
half cupfuls of granulated sugar, two eggs, two-thirds cupful 
yeast mixed together. Stir a teasi)oonful of cinnamon, one 
teaspoonful salt, butter size of a large egg into two-thirds of 
a pint of milk heated. Mix the above ingredients with this 
milk. Rise over night, knead well. 

No. 3, Aunt Grant's.— Six heaping tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, one of butter, two or three eggs, one cupful of sour 
milk, half a teaspoonful soda. Spice. 

No. 4.— One pint sweet milk, one teaspoonful of soda, 
two cupfuls of sugar, one-half cupful butter, four eggs, one 
nutmeg, salt, flour enough to roll out. 

English Walnut Cake.— One scant cupful butter, two 
cupfuls sugar, three cupfuls flour, one cupful milk, four eggs, 
one pound English walnuts, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, 
half teaspoonful of soda. Bake in sheets. 

Feather. — One and a half cupfuls sugar, three cupfuls of 
flour, one-quarter cupful butter, three-cjuarters cupful ot milk, 
two eggs, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, one of soda, salt, 
flavor with lemon. 

French Cake. — Two cupfuls ^lugar, one-half cupful of 
butter, one cupful of milk, three cupfuls of flour,* two tea- 



< IC%0 Cfcil il I] 












66 



PEERLESS COOK BOOK. 



1) 



spoonfuls cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of soda, dissolved 
in milk. Beat the sugar, butter, creatn of tartar and yolks 
together, whites separately, four eggs. 

French Loaf. — One pound sugar, half pound of butter,^ 
two eggs, half pint milk, one pound flour, one teaspoonful 
soda, one pound raisins, one cupful currants, one nutmeg, 
citron. 

Fruit. — One pound citron, two pounds currants, two 
pounds raisins, one pound flour, one pound of butter, one 
pound sugar, nine eggs, half teaspoonful soda, half cupful 
molasses, one teaspoonful each of cloves, nutmeg, mace, 
cinnamon and allspice, and two of lemon. 

No. 2. — Five eggs, two cupfuls brown sugar, one-half cup- 
ful molasses, one and a half cupfuls butter, three and a half 
cupfuls of flour, three-quarters pound citron, one and a half 
pounds currants, same of raisins, spice of all kinds. Bake 
three or four hours very slowly. 

German Cakks. — One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of 
sugar, three and a half cupfuls flour, half teaspoonful soda, 
one teaspoonful cream of tartar, half cupful milk, four eggs. 
Drop into buttered tins, sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. 

(ilNGERBREAU, SUGAR. — Six CUpfuls of floUr, tWO CUpfuls 

su^jar, one cupful butler, one cupful milk, one teaspoonful 
soda. Roll thin. 

No. 2, Hard Sugar. — Three-quarters pound of sugar, 
same of butter, one and a half pounds flour, four eggs, gin- 
ger, small teaspoonful of soda. Roll very thin and bake on 
tin sheets. 

No. •», Molasses. — One cupful molasses, one large table- 
spoonful lard, one teaspoonful salt, one teaspoonful ginger, 
one teaspoonful soda, dissolved in one-half cupful cold water, 
three scant cupfuls flour. 






GOnk^'ft FRIFNin Rpkinrr Pnx/ufifir 



TKSTED RKCII'ES.-CAKES. 



«7 



(iiNGER Puffs. — One cupful molasses, ofie cupful of 
sugar, one cupful water, one-half cupful of butter, one egg, 
five cupfuls flour, one tablespoonful soda, one tablespoon fui 
ginger and cinnamon. Drop on tins and bake. 

Ginger Snaps. — One cupful butter, one cupful sugar, 
two cupfuls molasses, one cupfu! of warm water, two tea- 
spoonfuls soda,- four tablespoonfuls ginger, roll thin, bake in 
hot oven. 

No. 2. — One and a half pounds flour, one-half pound 
lard, one pint molasses, three teaspoonfuls soda dissolved 
in a little water, two tablespoonfuls of ginger, little salt. 
Rub flouF and lard together, roll thin, cut in squares. 

Gold Cake. — Yolks of eight eggs, one tablespoonful 
butter, four cupfuls of flour, one cupiul sweet milk, two cup- 
fuls of sugar, one teaspoonful soda, two teaspoonfuls cream 
of tartar. Flavor with lemon. 

Golden. — Yolks of eight eggs, one cupful of sugar, two 
cupfuls of flour, one-half cupful of butter, one-half cupful of 
milk, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, half teaspoonful soda. 
Flavor with vanilla. 

Harrison. — Two cupfuls molasses, two cupfuls butter, 
one cupful milk, five cupfuls flour, four eggs, two pounds 
chopped raisins, one teaspoonful soda. 

Henry Cake. — One half cupful of butter, two cupfuls 
sugar, one cupful milk, three and a half cupfuls of flouf, 
khree eggs, one tea.spoonful cream of tartar, on -half tea- 
spoonfol of soda, one cupful chopped walnuts, one cupful 
currants. Flavor with lemon. 

Hartford Election Cake. — Two and a half pounds 
butter, three pounds sugar, four and a half pounds flour, 
three pounds raisins, four eggs, one pint yeast, one quart 



RhoiilH aliA/rawc Ka 






!! 



68 



PEERLESS COOK BOOK. 



I 



milk, mix the^ butter and sugar as for i)ound cake. Take 
one-half thus beaten and mix with flour, milk and yeast and 
set it to rise over night. In the morning add the other half 
of sugar and butter, eggs, raisins and spices, and let it rise 
again. Put in pans and let stand an hour before baking. 

Hermits. — One cupful butter, one and a half cupfuls of 
sugar, one cupful raisins, three eggs, one teaspoonful soda 
dissolved in a little milk, all kinds spice, flour to roll out. 

HicK.()RV-NUT Cake. — One cupful butter, four cupfuls 
flour, three cupfuls sugar, one cupful sweet milk, four eggs, 
one teaspoonful soda, one pint hickory-nut meat, half pint 
raisins. 

Imperial. — One pound of butter, one pound sugar, one 
pound chopped raisins, one-quarter pound citron, one 
pound flour, half pound blanched almonds put in whole, 
eight eggs, mace. 

Jelly Cake. — Two and one-half cupfuls of sugar, one 
cupful butter, one cupful milk, four cupfuls flour, three eggs, 
one teaspoonful cream of tartar, half teaspoonful soda. 

JjMbles, nice. — Three cupfuls of butter, three cupfuls 
sugar, six eggs, one-third cupful of milk, half teaspoonful 
soda, flour to roll easily. Scatter on sugar. Cut in fancy 
shapes. This makes many and will keep well. 

No. 2, Soft. — Two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful butter, 
three eggs, two-thirds cupful sour milk, half teaspoonful soda, 
four heaping cupfuls of flour. Drop them on a tin with a 
spoon some distance apart ; if too thin, add a little more 
flour. 

Julia Cake. — One cupful sugar, one-half cupful butter, 
half cupful sweet milk, two eggs, two cupfuls of flour, one 
teaspoonful cream of tartar, half teaspoonful soda. Vanilla. 






3 



t 



COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



TESTED RECIPES.— CAKES. 



69 






• 



I 



Lemon Snaps. — One cupful butter, two cupfuls sugar, 
one-third cupful milk, three e^s, one teaspoonful soda, two 
teaspoonfuls of lemon. 

Magic Cake. — One cupful sugar, half cupful butter, one 
and a half cupfuls of flour, three eggs, three tablespoonfuls 
milk, half teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, 
flavor with vanilla or nutmeg. 

Maggie's Gingerbread. — One cupful molasses, one-halt 
cupful ])uttcr and lard mixed, two-thirds cupful sour milk, 
one teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful ginger, five 'coffee 
cupfuls flour. Mix as soft as you can roll. 

Marbled Chocoi-VFE Cake.— One <;upful butter, two 
cupfuls powdered sugar, three cupfuls flour, four eggs, one 
cupful sweet milk, half teaspoonful soda, one cream of tar- 
tar. After this is well mixed take out one and a half cupfuls 
of it and nlix with it enough chocolate previously melted in 
a few drops of hot water to give a dark color, 'i'hen put in 
pans in separate layers and bake half an hour. ,.. 

Marshall Cake. — Two and a half cupfuls sugar, one 
cupful butter, one cupful milk, four cupfuls flour, four eggs, 
one tea'spoonful soda and one of cream of tartar. Bake in 
two sheets plain ; for the third sheet, add two tablespoonfuls 
of molasses, one cupful raisins, one cupful of currants, one- 
(luarter pound citron, all kinds spices. Wet this sheet with, 
the white of an egg and place between the light on^s. 

Molasses. — One cupful of molasses, two cupfuls suf;,'*r,; 
one-half cupful butter or lard, one teaspoonful soda, Oi.e 
cupful of boiling water, salt and ginger. 'I'o be niade soft 
and dropped from the spoon. 

Molasses Cake.— One pint molasses, six ounces butter, 
three well-beaten eggs, one-half pint of milk, one teaspoon- 
ful soda. Warm molasses enough to melt butter, dissolve 

Is entirely free from Alum. 



Ill 






li 



w 



PEERLESS COOK HOOK. 



soda i'' nulk, mix, add eggs, thicken with flour to the con- 
sistent y oj pound cake. Flavor witli lemon. 

MoiA rr.s Drop. — One cspful molasses, one cupful of 
suga-, )He c^i^tul wann water, one teaspoonful soda, l.*>ur 
enough to drop fro. » .:) spoon, one tal^lespoonful butter. 

Mrs. vT^'lark's.- One cx\[iiu] of. sugar, one-half cupful of 
bulter, two eggs, one te-is- oonfui cream of tartar, half tea 
spoonful soda two cupfuls flour, half cupful milk. 

Nice Cake. -One and a half cupfuls butter, one cuijful 
su^airj half cupful milk, two cupfuls flour, three eggs, one 
ttaspoonful cream of tartar, half teaspoonful soda. Beat 
the whites separa ely and add just before putting into the 
oven. Bake thirty minutes. 

Pi.ASN Raisin. — One-half cupful molasses, one cupful 
sugar, one-half cupful of butter, one-half cupful sour milk, 
one teaspoonful soda, two eggs, three cupfuls of flour. 
Raisins and spice. 

PiccOLOMiNi. — Three cupfuls sugar, one cupful butter, 
rub to a cream. Beat five eggs very light, and stir gradually 
iaio tilt: mixture together, with four heaping cupfuls flour and 
one of sweet milk. Dissolve in a little warm water, half tea- 
spfvonful soda, one cream of tartar, add nutmeg and wine- 
glasr^ul rose water. 

Rice Flour. - -One cupful butter, one cupful sugar, five 
eggs, two cupfuls rice flour. 

Rockland. — One cupfu tor, two cupfuls sugar, ',u 
cupful milk, five eggs, half teaspoonful soda, one teas|.\.v •fii- 
ful cream of tartar, four cupfuls flour. Makes two loave-. 

Sallv Jbwett Cake. — ^Three-quarters pound of sugar, 
one-half pound butter, one cupful molasses, one cupful milk 



COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



TESTED RECrPES.— CAKES. 



71 



f ve eggs, one pound flour, one heaping tablespoonful of 
»oda, one pound raisins, two teaspoonfuls each of cloves and 
cinnamon, one each of nutmeg, currants, and citron. 

Silver. — Two cupfuls of sugar, two and one-half cupfuls 
flour, one-half cupful butter, three-quarters cupful milk, 
whites of eight eggs, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, hralf 
teaspoonful of soda. Almond essence and chocolate 
frosting. 

Snow.— One poimd of sugar, three-qnarters pound butter, 
one pound flour, whites of sixteen eggs; lemon or rose water- 

Spice.— One cupful butter, one and a half cupfuls sugar, " 
two-thirds cupful milk, three eggs, three cupfuls flour, one 
teaspoonful of each kind of spice, one cupful raisins, orK 
teaspoonful of soda, citron and currants if you choose. 
Bake in roll pans. 

Sponge. — One cupful sugar, one cupful flour, four eggs, 
half teaspoonful soda sifted in dry. 

No, 2. --Three cupfuls sugar, six eggs, one cupful of cold 
•water, a little salt, four cupfuls flour, one teaspoonful soda, 
two of cream of tartai^. Beat the yolks and stir into sugar 
until smooth, then add the whites beaten lightly, then cold 
water with soda, then flour with cream of tartar, two tea- 
spoonfuls lemon put in last. 

No. 3. — Four eggs, one cupful of sugar, one cupful flour. 

Beat the whites stiff, then the sugar must be well beaten into 

the whites ; add next the yolks previously well beaten, and 

just as you are ready to put into the oven, stir the flour in. 

Very nice. 

Spongk Cake, No. 4.- Eight eggs, two scant cupfuls 
flour, one teaspoonful mace, beat the whites and ydlks 
separately, then t<^ther, stir in two cupfuls of sugar, and 
then nour. Bake in quick oven. Nice. 



Is a liealtiifii^ ^bstitute for Shortening^. 



72 



PEERLESS COOK BOOK. 



Sponge Drop. — Beat eight eggs very light, add one 
pound sugar, twelve ounces flour. Flavor with lemon or 
almond. Drop them on tins with teaspoon, sift sugar over 
them and bake in a quick oven. 

Trikles. — One egg beaten thoroughly, one teaspoonful 
isalt, all the flour that can be kneaded in. Roll as thin as 
paper. Fry ip liot lard. 

Walnut Cake. — One cupful butter, fwo cupfuls sugar, 
three and a half cupfuls flour, two-thirds cupful milk, one 
cupful chopped raisins, one cupful walnuts, half teaspoonful 
soda. . 

White Cake. — Whites of eight eggs, two cupfuls of sugar, 
one-half cupful butter, three-quarters cupful milk, three cup- 
fuls flour, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, half teaspoonful 
of soda. Bake in layers, spread each with icing and grated 
cocoanut, and when put together cover the whole with the 
icing and cocoanut. 

No. 2. — One cupful butter, two cupfuls sugar, three and 
one-half cupfuls flour, whites of five eggs, one cupful milk, 
one teaspoonful cream of tartar, hAlf teaspoonful soda.( 
Flavor with almond. ^ . 

White Mountain.- One cupful butter, two cupfuls 
sugar, four eggs, three and a half cupfuls flour, two-thirds of 
cupful milk, dne teaspoonful cream of tartar, half teaspoon- 
ful soda, one teaspoonful extract of lemon. Bake in four 
thin sheets, and when done put a layer of frosting betweerr 
each sheet. 

Methodist Cake. — Two eggs, one cupful sugar, one 
cupful sweet milk, half cupful butter, two teaspoonfuls cream 
of tartar, one teaspoonful soda, two cupfuls flour. Bake in 



COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



TESTED RECIPES.— CAKES. 



73 



layer ; put frosting between one layer and jelly between the 
other, and frosting on top. 

Fig Cake. — White Part. — One and a half cupfuls sugar, 
two cupfuls flour, two-thirds cupful sweet milk, half cupful 
butter, whites of five eggs, two teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Bake in two layers. Dark Part. — One cupful brown 
sugar, butter size of walnut, one cupful flour, one cupful 
chopped figs, half cupful sweet milk, one egg, one teaspoon- 
full baking powder. Place the fig cake between the light 
cake with a little frosting. 

Minnehaha Filling for Cakk. — One cupful English 
walnuts and one cupful raisins chopped together. Take one 
cupful granulated sugar ; boil in a little water, until it 
hardens in water, pour in the frothed white of one egg ; 
mix this with the nuts and raisins and put between the 
layers. Put white frosting on the top. 



■vJ--^-.- 



Once used is always preferred. 



-^^^^ti9^%Mfa®y 



"my^: 




■'.Mtk 



y*l 



PEERLKSS COOK BOOK. 



FANCY. 

Almond Cakes. — Whites of five eggs, stir in sugar enough 
to make it stiff, with just a little pinch of flour, half a pound 
of almonds scalded and pounded ; drop on buttered tins 
.and bake in a quick oven. 

Almond Cream. -One cupful of thick sour cream beat- 
en to a froth, two cupfuls white sugar, one cupful blanched 
almonds chopped very fine, one teaspoontul vanilla. This 
is enough for two cakes spread like jelly cakes. 

Apple Jelly. — Pare and cut into slices eighteen large 
acid apples, boil them in as much v.uter -is will cover them, 
when quite soft dip a coarse cloth into hot v iter, wring dry, 
and strain the apples throt it. " o onei t of juic< allow 
fourteen ounces of sugar. Add the peel of one lemon. 
Boj' twenty minutes, take out th*» peel and put in jars. 

No. 2. -One-half pegk fe,ood tart applet, three p.-^ts 
water, boil until done enough to run a straw througli them, 
then drain through a sieve. Three quarters p'ud of sugar 
to one pint of juice. Boil twenty mini 

Checkerberrv Drops. — One pint su , five table- 
spoonfuls water, boil four minutes, i wo taDlespoonfuls 
suga.' ; idlf teaspoonful cream of tartar, fifteen drops of oil of 
checkerberry stirred into mixture after boiling. Drop on 
tin or paper. 

Caramels. — One cupful sugar, one cupful molasses, one 
gill cream, piece of butter size of an egg, quarter pound 
chocolate, cook until it ropes, pour on buttered tins and cut 
in squares just before it is cold. 






COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



TK5TKD RECIPES. FANCY. 



75 






Chocoi.* rK Drops. — Two cupiuls of sugar, one-half (m{>- 
ful water, boil three minutes, take from the fire, and cool in 
a pan of water, stirring constantly till cold enough to rrM 
into small balls. Place them on buttered tins. Take one- 
half bar of chocolate, not sweeten* ', and break into small 
pieces and place in a plate over the teakettle. When this 
is ni Ited, take the bnllson astraw and roll in this chocolate. 
Flavor the cream and chocolate with vanilla. 

Chocolatk Fro.siing. Beat the whites of two eggs to a; 
.sfiff froth, add one and a half cupfuls sugar, and four table- 
sp >onfuls of chocolate. 

V. .>ER Jkllv — One half box of gelatine with cold water 
sufiicii to cover it, let it stand one hour, then add the 
gmteu ut d and juice of one lemon, one-half pint or little 
more of sug > •^wo-thirds of a pint of cider, and a pint and 
a half of bohii , water, strain into moulds.^ 

CocoANUT Frosting — Beat the whites of five eggs to a stiff 
froth, add two cupfuls of prepared cocoanut, and powdered 
sugar enough to make it sufficiently stiff to spread with a 
knife. Flavor with extract le aon, vanilla, or almor 
After spreading the frosting upon the cake, .sprinkle a little 
dry coccwmut over it. 

Conserve for rEA.-~Pare and slice very thin a dozen 
nice oranges, lay them in a fruit dish, sprinkle sugar and 
grated cocoanut over each layer of oranges, till the dish is 
full. Prepare in the morning. 

Fr' IT Ice Cream. — Two quarts milk, six eggs, about 
one and a half pounds sugar, one and a iialf tablespoonfuls 
of Bermuda arrowroot. Cook it as a custard. When cold 
ffciYor with two spoonfuls vanilla. Then add one pound 
figs, one quarter pound citron, and otb fruits, cut fine. 
Freeze like ice cream. 




m 



It 



76 



PKERLESS COOK HOOK. 



J! 



Kisses. — Whites of four eggs, two cupfuls of sugar. 
Flavor as you please, drop on a tin covered with jjapcr, and 
bake in a moderate oven. 

Cakfaroma Coffek. — How to make coffee and have it 
always turn out well is worth learning. An old Planter's 
advice is as follows : — 

Always get what is called " Caffaroma " (Coffee, there being 
a great difference in coffee. And by asking for " Cafiiiroma " 
Coffee, which the grocers always keep, you are always sure 
of getting absolutely pure unadulterated Coffee, it is sold in 
one and two pound sealed tins. Allow about oneteaspoon- 
ful for each person, and one for the pot, (a French coffee- 
pot is preferred), which must be kept clean ; pour in about 
half a cupful of water to each cup reciuired ; allow to steep 
for say, ([uarter to half an hour ; when if in an ordinary pot, 
the shell of an egg may be added to clarify. Serve with 
warm milk or cream. No hot water or you spoil it. 
Sweetened to the liking, you have a most delicious drink. 

To those who prefer Chicory, it is best to buy it separate and 
mix for yourself, say five parts Caffaroma to one part Chicory, 
this proportion of Chicory may be increased to one half. 

Coffee Cream. — Steep four tablespoonfuls Caffaroma 
coftee in one quart of water, half box gelatine, one cupful, 
sugar ; when the gelatine is well dissolved, pour over it 
the coffee, well settled and strained ; add the sugar, stir 
well and strain into moulds. 

Coffee Cream. — Soak one ounce gelatine in a little 
cold water half an hour ; then place it over boiling water 
and add one gill of .strong Caffaroma coffee and one gill sugar. 
When the gelatine is dissolved, take from the fire, stir in- 
three gills of cream and put into moulds. 

Lemon Meringues! -Whites of three eggs beaten to a 
froth, one cupful sugar, juice and rjnd of one lemon. Line 
some tins with a rich pastry and bake in a quick oven. 

COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



TKSTKI) KKCll'KS. lANCV 



t i 



Mkkinc.iks. — 'I'lu- whites ot tour eggs beaten very 
thoroughly, one-halt" spoonful extract of almond, three 
cupfuls grnnulated sugar stirred in lightly. Drop from tea- 
spoon on paper, bake in not very hot oven, let them stay in 
a. warm place till fully set. 

Molasses ('andv. — One |)int of molasses, one pound 
of white sugar, large tablespoonful of vinegar, half < olTee 
cupful of cold water, piece of butter large as a walnut. 
Boil all together in a spider, without stirring, twenty 
minutes. 

Orangk Jei.i.v. — Dissolve one-half cui)ful gelatine in one 
cupful cold water. After standing one-half hour add a cup- 
ful boiling water. Drain this into the juice of twelve 
oranges, juice and grated rind of two lemons. Sweeten 
with about two cupfuls sugar. Strain. 

Peppermints. — One cupful of sugar, one-half cupful of 
water, boil, stirring often, twenty minutes. Take from the 
stove and add half teaspoonful cream of tartar, and pepper- 
mint to taste. 

Pop Beer. — One pound sugar, one ounce cream of tartar, 
one ounce ginger, juice of two lemons, four quarts boiling 
water. When cold add a Fleischman's compressed yeast cake 
dissolved in a little water. Let it stand twenty-four hours 
and bottle. 

Rose Cakes. — One-half i)cuiid butter, three-quarters 
pound of sugar, one pound fipur, si.< eggs, rose water. Drop 
on pans. 

White Frosting for Cake. — Beat white of one egg to 
a froth, then beat into it very gradually one teacupful of 
powdered sugar, and one scant teaspoonful of corn-starch, 
together with the juice of one lemon. Beat until very 
white, and then wet a knife in cold water and spread over 
the cake. Set in a warm place to harden. 



Never disappoints the user. 



1 



78 



PKERLESB COOK BOOK. 



if 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

Burns and Scalds. — The best remedy for burns and 
scalds is glycerine. A rag soaked in it should be laid upon 
the burn. If glycerine is not at hand, common kitchen 
whitening should be powdered and crumbled over the part 
till it forms a thick layer, then cotton wool placed over it. 
If either of these remedies be applied immediately to a 
slight burn, they will very speedily ease the pain, and most 
likely prevent the formation of a blister. If a blister should 
form, it should be pricked, and fresh whitening or glycerine 
laid upon the place. Next to whitening, flour is to be 
recommended. The part should be carefully excluded 
from the air, and kept as quiet as possible. The sore 
should be dressed every other day. Frequent handling will 
injure it. 

Carpkt Bug. — Those who are thrifty householders, who 
care for the preservation of whatever carpets may ccver their 
floor, be they of ingrain or tapestry, of Velours or the rich- 
est and most costly kind manufactured, and to those who 
possess carriage furniture, blanket robes, cushions, seats» 
will this article be found of interest, It belongs to the 
fiimily Dermestidce, which comprises many of those destruc- 
tive insects which brings to mind the biblical quotation of 
moths, etc. Care must be taken not to confound it with 
the well-known carpet moth, from which it diflers entirely, 
both in its appearance and habit. (Concealing itself bene.ith 
the carpet, or in the folds of rugs and cushioned seats, it 
preys not only upon woollen l)ut cotton fabrics, and is there- 



|: 



COOK'S FRIEND Bakingf Powder 



, 



^ 



TESTED RECIFES.-MISCELI^NEOUS. 



79 



fore to be apprehended where ordinary moths would never be 
found. Sometimes it will follow the lines of cracks across 
a floor, eating holes in a carpet frequently an inch in diam- 
eter. It is a small ovate object, about one-tenlh of an inch 
in length and thicklv clothed with numerous short bristle- 
like hairs, terminating in a pencil of these forming a tail. 
It is exceedingly active in its motions, and glides away 
very rapidly. Like the house-fly it disappears in the winter, 
and eats only during the summer months. 

" It is necessrfry to look for them frequently, and for the 
greater convenience of repeated search many of the house- 
keepers have left their carpets unnailed." 

Ckment. — Broken china may be mended by a paste made 

of the white of an egg mixed with flour. The article thus 

mended will not hold water, without coming to pieces, but 

for vases, lamp shades and similar articles this paste answers 

' a very gojd purpose, and is always at hand. 

CtEANsiNc; BoiTLES. — Partly fill the bottle with soap 
suds, drop in one or two do>,cn tacks, or some small nails 
-J 'id shake them up briskly. 

Ci-EANsiNO (ii.Ass JakS. -Fill them up with rather hot 
water, and stir in a spoonful or so, of pearlash, (or caustic 
potash is better,) pouring off", and repeating if necessary. 
The adhering contents will be immediately disengaged. 
In extreme cases let tiie water and pearlash stand a few- 
hours. Rinse the jar with cold water. 

Clkansino Jars. — Stone jars which have become offen- 
sive anil unfit for us- can be rendered perfectly sweet by 
packing them full of earth, and letting them stand two or* 
three weeks. 

Cleaning Rnjvks. — The very best way to dean a stained 
steel knife is to cut a solid potato in two, dip one piece in 
brick dust and rub the bkule with it. 



Made only by W. D. McLAREN 



m 



80 



PEKRLESS COOK BOOK. 



I 

f 



«• i 



CvHK KOk Boils.— The skin of a boiled egg is the most 
efficacious remedy which can be applied to a boil. Peel it 
carefully, wet and apply it. It will draw off the matter and 
relieve the soreness in a few hours. 

Cure for Chilblains. — We think our remedy is a .sure 
thing, here it is : Take fine salt, pour on enough camphor 
to dissolve it, then rub the parts afflicted with it. A few 
applications will cure. 

Cure for Dysentfry. — Take some Ihdian corn, roast 
ed and ground in the manner of coffee, (or coarse meal 
browned,) boil in a sufficient quantity of water to produce a 
strong liquid like coffee, and drink a teficupful warm, two 
or three times a day. One day's practice will ordinarily 
effect a cure. 

Cure for PoisOninc;. -While waiting for the physician, 
give the patient an emetic of warm mustard water. After 
vomiting has been produced, let the patient swallow whites 
of one or two eggs and drink strong coffee. 

Cure for Small Pox.— The worst case of small pox 
can be cured in three days simply by the use of cream of 
tartar. One ounce cream of tartar dissolved in a pint water, 
drank at intervals when cold, is a certain, never failing 
remedy. It lias cured thousands, never leaves a mark, 
never causes blindness, and avoids tedious lingering. 

Cure for Warts.— Take half an ounce of sulphur, half 
an ounce of alcohol, 95 per cent, put into an. ounce vial, 
shake them well together, and apply freely once or twice a 
day for two or three weeks. By the end of this time, or a 
month, the warts will all be gone. 



COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



TESTED RECIPES.— MISCELLANEOUS. 



81 



How TO Choosk Mkat. — It is always important to know- 
how to choose meat in buying. Ox beef should be of fine 
grain or fibre, the flesh or lean of a bright red eolor, and 
firm, the fat white, and distributed throughout the lean : 
it should not be yellow or semi-fluid. If the meat be entire- 
ly lean it will be tough and its nutritive power be low. Veal 
is dry if fresh. It should be close-grained. If the meat be 
moist and flabby it is stale. Mutton should be of a clear, 
deep pink tint ; firm, and with a liberal supply of fat. Fine 
wether mutton may be recognized by the [)resence of a 
small mass of fat on the upper part of the leg. It is more 
nutricious than ordinary mutton, the darker its tint the finer 
its flavor. Fork should be of a pale deep |)ink tint, and the 
fat very firm. If it be soft or the fat be yellow, the meat is 
bad. If it be semi-fluid the animal has probably been fed 
on flesh. 

How to Cook Steak. — To cook steak tender, cut it on 
both sides with a sharp knife, in little squares a <]uarter of 
an inch in size, and two or three lines deep ; then place it 
in the frying pan, having the latter hot, and with a bit of 
melted butter in it, put a cover over the frying paa, to con- 
fine the steam. When cooked on one side, turn it over on 
the other. When neaYly done, remove the cover and brown 
it a little. Take it up on a warm platter, salt and serve. 
Treated in this way, steak is much more juicy and tender 
than when it is pounded. 



How to Clean Paint, — Have c'ean warm water, dip a 
piece of flannel in the water and squeeze nearly dry, take 
as much whitening as will adhere to it, apply it to the paint, 
when a little rubbing will instantly remove any dirt or 
grease ; after which wash the part with clean water. Paint 
thus cleaned looks as well as when first laid on. 

Is best in use. 



m 



82 



rKKKLKSS COOK BOOK. 



Ink Rkmovki* from MAHcxJANV.-Put a few drops 



ater, touch the spot 
and on the ink dis- 



si)irits of nitre in a teaspoonful of w 

with a feather dipped in the mixtwre, 

appearing, rub it over immediately with a rag wet in cold 

water, to prevent a white mark being left. 

Mannkr of Cookino. — (iood rooking is always done 
slowly, and the expense in the long run of fuel for cooking 
little things need not be greater than that incurred for im- 
mense fires with which to roast joints. The cook, once 
accustomed to jjrepare fresh food every day, will find no 
difficulty ;\iul make no objection. English eaters, as a class, 
may be termed more nice than wise. They have an invin- 
cil)le horror of " messes," and are fond of declaring their 
conviction that " after all, plain living is the best." Now, 
the reason why a number of good things are refused on the 
grounds that they are not "plain" is, no doubt, the fault of 
the cook. She will boil instead of gently sinuiiering ; she 
will harden meat in the frying pan instead of slowing and 
gently cooking it in the manner the French call smtte, and 
7f'/// generally render good food as indigestible as fire and 
opportunity will allow. 

Rkmkdv for a Felon. —One pint of common soft 
soap, stir into it air-slaked lime till if be of the consistency 
of glazier's putty. Make a leather thimble, fill it with this 
composition and insert the finger therein. 

Kkmkov ic»i< Bad 15ri:atu. — Three hours before break- 
fast take a teaspoonful of the following mixture : Chlorate of 
potassa, two drachms; sweetened water, four ounces. 
Wash the mouth occasionally with the same mixture, and 
the breath will be as sweet as an infant's of two months. 

To Kkmove a TioHr Ring. — Thread a needle with 
strong thread ; pass carefully under the ring, head first. 



COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



... ^\\^:^ 



TP:sTEI) Ki:CirKS.-MISCELLANK()US. 



K3 



pull the thread through a few inches towards the 
hand ; wraj) the long end of the thread tiglitly around 
the finger, regularly all down to the nail to reduce its 
size. Then take hold of the short end of the thread, 
and unwind it. The thread pressing against the ring 
will gradually remove it from the finger. This never 
failing method will remove the tigiitest ring without diffi- 
culty, however swollen the finger may he. 

'I'o Ri:movk Paint and I'lrnv from Window (ii.Ass. — 
Put sufficient soda into hot water to make a strong solution, 
and with this, saturate the paint which adheres to the glass. 
Let it remain until nearly dry, then rub cIT with a woollen 
cloth. 



. KITCHEN' KHYMK. 

Always have lohstei sauce with salmon, 
And put mint sauce your roasted land) on. 

In dressinij; sMad mind this law — 
With two hard yolks use one that's raw. 

Roast pork, satis apple sauce, jiast doubt. 
Is " Hamlet " with the I'rince left out. 

Broil iij^htly your beefsteak — to fry it 
Argues contempt of Christian diet. 

To roast Spring chickens is to spoil 'cm - 
Just split 'em down the hack and liroil 'em. 

The cook deserves a liearty cufting 

Who serves roast fowl witli tasteless .^tulting. 



Is rich in raising power. 



''! 



84 



PEERLESS COOK BOOK. 



Weights and Measures. 



o :- 



Whkai I'LOUR, 




11)., 


- = 




quart 


Indian Meal,, - 




lb., 2 oz., - 


= 




quart 


Butter, when soft, - 




lb., - 


. = 




quart. 


Loaf Sucar, broken, - 




lb., - - 


= 




quart 


White; Sugar, powdered. 




lb., 2 oz., 


- = 




quart. 


Hest Brown Sugar, - 




lb., 2 oz., - 


= 




quart 


Eggs, . . . . 


10 




* 




quart 



Liquid Measures. 



■:o :- 



1 6 large tablespoonfuls, - - - - =1-2 pint. 
8 " ** .-.-=: 1 gill. 

4 " " ..... 1-2 gill. 

A common sized tumbler holds 1-2 pint. 
A common sized wine-glass holds 12 gill. 



» 



COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



TIME FOR HOI LING VEGETAbLKS. 



So 



Time for Boiling Vegetables. 

Green Peas, 1-2 hour. 

String Beans, 3 hours. 

Squash, - - - • - - - - 1-2 hour. 

Asparagus, 20 minutes. 

Cabbage, - 2 hours. 

Turnips, 1| hours. 

Parsnips, - U hours. 

Carrots, 2 hours. 

Beets, 4 hours. 

Shelled Beans, 1 hour. 

Onions, 1 hour. 

Potatoes, - - - - - - 1-2 hour. 

Spinach, H hours. 



Is thoroughly healthful. 



hi 



86 



PEERLESS COOK BOOK. 



■^ 






ESSENTIALS. 

An oven hot, a well greased pan, 
A clock that tells no lies, 
A set of weights or balances, 
A spoon, a sccop, a pinch of salt, 
Cream of tartar, eggs and spice. 







COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



TESTED RECIPES.-CANDY. 



87 



CANDY. 

Chocolate Caramels. — One cupful brown sugar, half 
cupful chocolate, (juarter cupful milk, one-eighth cupful 
molasses, one-sixteenth cupful butter. Boil until thick and 
spread on buttered dishes. When slightly cool mark in 
squares with a knife-blade, and break when cold. 

Chocolate Drops, (for the cream.)— Boil two cupfuls 
sugar and half cupful milk or water for five minutes, add 
one teaspoonful vanilla, then beat for half an hour or till 
stiff enough to hold ; make into drops. 

(For the chocolate.) — Three-quarters of a :.!f pound 
cake of unsweetened chocolate, (irate and steam over the 
tea-kettle. Drop the creams when hard (one at a time) into 
the hot chocolate, using two forks to pick them out quickly. 
Set the drops on one fork, using the other to scrape the 
chocolate off the cream. Gently slip the drop on to a but- 
tered i)late. If, when cool, the drops slick to the plate, hold 
over the steam of the kettle and slide off. 

CocoANur A\i) CHOcoi.ArK Candv. — Two sticks of un- 
sweetened ch )c )late, half a cupful of milk ; when lelted add 
one and a half cupfuls of white sugar, boil until very thick, 
remove from stove and put in mixture two tablespoonfuls 
of cocoanut, s;ir five minutes, then pour on buttered plates. 

Molasses Candy. — One pint molassef-- six tablespoon- 
fuls white sugar, boil until it b:;comi.n ^ thick it can 
scarcely be stirred. Then put one-half h poonful of soda 



. ii 



er 



Has all ingredients of be t quality. 






88 



PEERLESS COOK BOOK. 



and stir quickly until it gets light and frothy. Pour, on a 
buttered dish and let it stand a few minutes, in a cool 
place. 

Nut Candy. — Two cupfuls white sugar, half cupful 
sweet milk. Boil twenty minutes and add a cupful of nuts. 
Then beat until very thick and pour on buttered plates. 

Cream and cocoanut candy made in the same way. 

Hu'iTER Scotch. — Two cupfuls sugar, one tablespoonful 
water, piece of butter size of an egg, boil without stirriag 
until it hardens on a spoon. Poor on buttered plates to 
cool. 

Cream Candy. — ; )ound white sugar, three table- 
spoonfuls vinegar. - • ispoonful royal extract of lemon, 
one teasjJOonfLil cream oi tartar, add a little water to moisten 
sugar, boil until brittle. Put in extract and pour quickly 
on buttered [ilates. When cool, pull until white, and cut in 
squares. 

Chocolate Caramkls. — Two cupfuls molasses, one cup- 
ful brown sugar, one cupful cream or milk, one-half pound 
chocolate, piece of butter size of an egg. Beat all together 
and boil until it thickens in water. Pour into large flat 
buttered tins. When nearly cold cut into small squares. 

MoLAssE.s Candy. — Three cupfuls yellow coffee sugar, 
one cupful molasses, one cupful water, half teaspoonful 
cream of tartar, butter size of a walnut. Follow directions 
for cream cand)-. 

CocoANUT Drops. — Beat the whites of two eggs very 
thick with pulverized sugar, add one-quarter of a pound of 
cocoanut, and drop on white buttered paper. Then set in 
the oven to dry. 

Cream Candy. — One cupful white sugar, two teaspoon- 
fuls water. Boil without stirring until it crisps in water. 



COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



T F.ST K. D K EC I P KS. ~C A NOV. 



89 



Before taking off the stove add one teaspoonful vanilla and 
one-quarter of a teaspoonful cream of tartar. I'lill and cool. 
SuciAR Candy.— Six cupfuls sugar, one cupfu' egar, 
one cupful water, one tahlespoonful butter, put in i.ist with 
one teaspoonful soda dissolved in hot water. Boil witliout 
stirring for half an hour or until it crisps in cold water. 
Butter plates and pour out and cool. If preferi-ed put 
nut meats on the plates and pour nii.xture over them. 
In any case add any flavoring [)referred. When cold 
break. 

Peanut Candv.— Two <iuarts of roasted peanuts, two 
pounds light brown sugar, a little water, white of one egg. 
' Shell and hull the peanuts, boil the sugar in a preserving 
kettle with enough water to wet it thoroughly and form u 
syrup ; when the sugar begins to boil throw in the white of 
an egg to clear it : strain it, and try by dropping a little of 
the sugar into cold water if it is done enough ; if it hardens 
and becomes brittle, it is sufficiently boiled, and must be 
taken from the fire ; the blanched nuts must then be stirred 
thoroughly through the sugar ; wet with a brush a marble 
slab, free from all grease, and drop the hot mixture upon it ; 
flatten into small oblong blocks or round cakes, when cold 
take them off the board with a knife. 

Cream Candy. — Three coffee cupfuls of the finest loaf 
sugar, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, si.\ tablespoonfuls 
water, extract of vanilla or peppermint. Hoil without 
stirring in a bright tin pan until it will crisp in water like 
molasses candy ; just before it is done flavor with vanilla or 
peppermint and add the cream of tartar, then pour into 
buttered pans, and when fit to handle pull until it is per- 
fectly white. 

Vinegar Candy. — Three cupfuls sugar, half a cupful 
vinegar, half a cupful water, one teaspoonful soda. When 



Should always be used. 



MICROCOPY RESOLUTION TEST CHART 

(ANSI and ISO TEST CHART No. 2) 



1.0 



I.I 



1.25 





|2^ 




•1^ Ih 


i£ 


■ 13 


^ y£ 


1^ 


U u 




Kuu 






1^ 


1.4 


<> III 



jd APPLIED IN/MGE Inc 

^sr 1653 East Main Stmt 

S%S Rochester, New York U609 USA 

^S (716) 482 - 0300 - Phone 

^B (716) 288-5989 -Fax 



90 



PEERLESS COOK BOOK. 



it boils stir in the soda. If the candy is preferred clear, 
stir it as little as possible ; if grained, stir it. When tried 
in water, if it becomes brittle, remove from fire. 

Chocolate Candy.— Six cupfuls sugar, two cupfuls rich 
cream, one tablespoonful butter, scrape half a cake of 
chocolate and flavor with vanilla. 

Cream Walnuts.— Measure the white of one egg into 
a glass ; to this add an equal quantity of a mixture of two 
teaspoonfuls of vanilla and water. Thoroughly mix together 
and work a sufficient quantity of confectioner's sugar to 
make a stiff paste. Take a pinch of this paste, roll and put 
half a walnut on each side. For orange flavor, substitute 
the juice and a little grated rind for the water. For lemon, 
take part lemon and orange. 

Molasses Taffy. — Two cupfuls of brown sugar, four 
tablespoonfuls of molasses, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 
two tablespoonfuls of water, butter the size of an egg. Boil 
fifteen minutes and pour into greased pans. 

Cream VV^alnuts — White of one egg ; stir into it suffi- 
cient powdered sugar to make it stiff enough to handle. 
Flavor with vanilla. Dip the walnuts into a syrup made of 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar and one of water, boiled three 
or four minutes. Mould the cream with your fingers, 
and place between the two halves of a walnut. Dates or 
Malaga grapes may be used. 

Sugar C\ndy.— Six cupfuls of sugar, om cupful of 
vinegar, one cupful of water, one tables{)oonful of butter 
put in last with one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in hot 
water. F^oil without stirring half an hour, or until it crisps 
in cold water. Pull until white, with the tips of your fingers. 

.Peppermin I Drops. — Two cupfuls of sugar, half a cupful 
of water. Boil five minutes Flavor to taste with pepper- 



r-« r-» ■ »-• & I r^ 



uuuis.^^ ^hiitLlNu t^aKing 



Powder 



i 



TESTED RECIPES.-CANDV. 



\n 



mint. Stir until thick and drop on white paper well 
buttered. 

Maple Cream. —Two cupfuls of brown sugar, half a 
cupful of milk, two tablespoonfuls of molasses or maple 
syrup, butter the size of a walnut, flavor with vanilla. 
Boil six minutes. Pour into buttered plates and cut in 
squares. 

Chocolate Caramels.— One and a half cupfuls of 
molasses, two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of sweet milk, 
one cupful of grated chocolate, lump of butter size of an 
egg. Boil molasses, sugar and milk together until done ; 
then add butter and chocolate. Four into buttered plates ; 
when nearly cold, mark in s(iuares. 

Chocoi.atk IcEiNi;.— One cupful o{ sugar, scant half 
cupful of water. Boil until it hairs, then pour into two cakes 
of melted chocolate ; atld white of one egg, well whipped. 

CocoANUT Drops.— One pound of cocoanut, one pound 
of powdered sugar, small quarter of a pound of flour, whites 
of six eggs. Drop on buttered white paper and bake in a 
quick oven. 



:k:^ 






le or»+;r<iIv fr*^^ from Alum. 



I V 



I) ii 



•; 



-V^ fo 




A L W A Y S 
ORDER 




RECKITT'S 







1 



BLUE 




o) — •«*- 



t 



The Largest gale in tslie Worid. 



WHAT IS IT IN MEAT THAT C ENGTHENS? 

The ALBUMEN it contains. 

This substance, beyond all question, is the most important constituent of flesh. 

OUR I^ISVE TISSUES 
are entirely dependent upon Albumen for their repair, and our blood, in order 
to be healthy, must contain it in no less ihan seven per cent. 

SCIENTIFIC ANALYSIS 
has clearly demonstrated that 




FLUID BEEF 



JOHNSTON'S 



contains all the elements— without a single exception -necessary for the 
ormation of FLESH, MUSCLE AND BONE. 

3G PER CENT OF FLESH-FORMING MATERIAL. 
13 .' " MINERAL SALTS, or PHOSPHATES. 

It must be evident, therefore, to the indulgent public that JOHNSTON'S 
FLUID HEEF has the first claim as a nutritiou'; and strengthening food, for 
old and young, sick and healthy. 

THE GREAT STRENGTH-GIVER. 



-«- 



-•«»- 



Pur^NiTUr^B AND Bedding. 




WM. KING & CO. 



MANUFACTURERS, 

Waremms: 652 CRAIG ST. factory: 62 COLLEGE ST. 



King Tye Cheong. 

(Frow China and Japan) 



-i-OK-t-^ 



Chinese Matting, Curiosities and Novelties, 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL, 

1801 NOTRE OAMK STREET, 



P. O. Box 948. 



II 



PROPERLY PREPARED FOOD 

is essential to the HEALTH and general GOMPOI^'P of a family, 



i ' 



i 



i I 



s I 



COOK'S FRIEND 

BAKING POWDER 

Has been TRIED, PROVED and found THOROUGHLY 
RELIABLE for the production of 

LIGHT, EASILY-DIGESTED AND WHOLESOME 

polls, Gems, piscuits, Jea-Cakes, pan-Cakes, 
Johnny-Cakes, &c. 

When used along with good Flour, according to directions. 

Pnnif 'Q "ffPTfUTl '^ ^'^° "^"^^"^ '" Pie-Crust, Boiled Pudding, 
bUUiiU flliJiinU ^^,^^ SAVING a large i)roi)ortion of the 

USUAL SHORTENING, and producing 

MORE HEALTHFUL FOOD. 

DYSPEPTICS may use, with advantage, food 
prepared by its aid. 

MTT T TflU^ ^''^^'*^ ^^^^^^ '^' '"^"^ ^^" ^^^^^^^ ^^ '^^ ^'^'"*^' ^^^ "^^^" 

mlLLlUrlij ingredients are the finest Spkciali.v Preparkd 
Bi-Carbonate of Soua and pure Graph CrL';am or Tartar, 
all tested chemically before use. 

N B -The importance of the last mentioned precaution will he appreciated by all who 
may liave tried to purchase Pure (Ground Cream of Tartar, a lat^e proporttot. of what is >old 
as such being more or less adulterated. 

mnP rnnF'Q T?PT1?UT1 is absolutely free from alum. 
imbbUUKornlMlU ^ ^^^ obtained FIRST PRIZES 
wherever exhibited in competition, holds SIX MEDALS-thi-ee 
SILVER and three BRONZP:, awarded for EXCELLENCE 
and PURITY. 

Every (^.enuine Package has the Trade Mark and Manufacturer's 

Name on the Wrapper. 

w. D. McLaren, Montreal. 



COTHNTS. 



<».5 



CONTENTS 



sou PS. 



To Clarify Slock, 13 

Browning Soup, 1;^ 

Oyster Soup, ^'j 

Pea. Soup, I'j 

Tomato Soup, 14 

Tomato Cream Soup, 1-1 

Brown l'>ean Soup, 14 



Lobster Soup, 14 

Vermicelli Souj), 1 } 

Macaroni Soup, I'j 

Sago Soup, 1'^ 

Hare Soup l-' 

Ox -Tail Soup, l'> 



FISH 



Fish a la Cream, 1 '> 

naked l-'isli 1'; 

Kscaloped Oysleri K' 

Oyster Fritters, 



Ki 



Oyster Tatties 1<> 

Fried Oysters, 1" 

Cold Fish Relish, 17 

Fish ]5alls, 1" 



MEATS. 



Roast Beef, 1^ 

Yorkshire Puddinj;;, IS 

Gravy for Roast Ik'ef, 19 

Sjiiced Beef. 1^' 

Boned Leg of Mutton, 20 

Stuffing, 20 

Boiled Leg of Mutton or Lamb, 20 

Veal Cutlets, 20 

Sweetbreads, 21 

To Clean and Truss Poultry 

and Came, 21 

To Dress a Fowl for Roasting, 22 



To Stuff a Fowl, 2:5 

Boiled or Steamed Turkey,. ..2:{ 

Roast ( loose, 24 

Meat Pie, 21 

Jellied Turkey 24 

To Make the Jelly, 2!'. 

Forcemeat, 2ri 

Thick Cream Sauce, '2->> 

Croquettes, 26 

Welsh Rarebit, ....26 

Clood Beef Tea 27 

Lobster C'roquettes, 27 



PUDDINGS. 



Apple Float, 28 

Cherry Pudding, 28 

Vanilla Cream Pudding, 28 

Apple Pudding, 28 

Orange Puft 28 



Dandy Pudding, ...2^ 

Gingerbread Pudding, 20 

Tapioca or Sago Pudding, 2i» 

Cottage Pudding,. 29 

American Plum Puddiig, 29 



COOK'S FRIEND BAKINd POWDER, MJe only liy D. McLaren. 



m 



CONTKNTS. 



PUDDING S— Continued. 



(iingerbreail riulding, '29 

Paradise I'lulding,.. 30 

Frozen I'liddiny;, 'iO 

Ice Pudding, 30 

Karl Orey I'lidding 30 

Rice Cro(iuettes, 30 

IJatter Pudding, 30 

Puff Pudding 31 

Apjile Charlotte, 31 

Lemon Puff, 31 

Troy Pudding, 31 

Macaroni Pudding, 31 

Cabinet Pudding, 31 

Suet Puflding, 32 

Tapioca Meringue, 32 

Batter Pudding, 32 

Cottage Pudding 32 

Carrot Pudding, 32 

Plain Macaroni Pudding, 32 

Fig Pudding, 33 

I'lum Pudding, 33 

Plain Pudding, 33 

Orange Pudding 33 

Arrowroot Pudding, (Cold). ..33 

Vanilla Souffle, 34 

Try Me Pudding, 34 

Cheese Pudding, 34 



<,)uefn of Puddings, 34 

Sunday Pudding, 35 

Carrot Pudding, 3.'» 

English Plum Pudding, 35 

Brown Pufiding 35 

Gelatine Pudding 35 

Suet Pudding 35 

Suet Pudding, 3(5 

Rice Snowballs, 3(5 

Suet Pudding, 3fJ 

Surprise Pudding, 36 

(jinger Pudding, 3(5 

Balicr Pudding, 37 

Kiss Pudding, 37 

\'ork.<hire Pudding, 37 

Chocolate Pud<ling, 37 

Snow Pudding, 37 

Fig Pudding 38 

.Sago Custaril, 38 

To Boil Rice dry 38 

Bread and Apple Pudding, .... 38 

(Iraham Pudding, 39 

Honey Comb Pudding, 39 

Corn .Meal Pudding, 39 

Apple Snow, 39 

Orange Pudding, 39 

Tapioca and Lemon Pudding, 39 



SAUCES. 



Sago .Sauce, 40 

Hard Sauce, 40 

Pudding Sauce, 40 

Sauce for Salt Fish, 40 

Jelly Sauce for Puddings, 40 

Pudding Sauce, 41 

Simple Mayonnaise Sauce, ... .41 

Oyster Sauce 41 

Celery Sauce, 41 

J'udding Sauce, 41 

Pudding Sauce, 41 



Bread Sauce, 42 

Dutch .Sauce for F'ish, 42 

Mint Sauce, 42 

White Sauce 42 

Caper Sauce, 42 

Lobster .Sauce, 4.S 

Temperance Pudding Sauce, . . 43 

Curry Gravy, 43 

Lemon Sauce, 43 

Pudding Sauce, 43 



PIES. 



Cocoanut Pie, 44 

Cream Pie, 44 

Lemon Pie, 44 

Lemon Pie, 44 

Lemon Pie, 44 



Lemon Pie, 45 

Marlborough Pie, 45 

Mock Mince Pie 45 

Mock Mince Pie, No. 2 45 

Squash Pie 45 



COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



/ 



CONTENTS. 



97 



SALADS, PICKLES. &c. 



Brine for I'ork to Fry ■!« 

Chicken or Lobster Salad, 4« 

Chili Sauce 4« 

Chow Chow, 46 

Cream Soda 46 

Currant Shrub 47 

1 )ressing for Salad 47 

1 )ressing for Cabbage, 47 

1 )ressing for Lobster Salad, ... 47 

drape Pickle 47 

llodge Podge, 47 

Leontine's Lobster Salad, 48 

Ohio Catsup, 48 

Pickle for Beef, 48 

Pickle for Butter, 48 

Pickled Cucumbers, 48 

Pickled F.(T,Ts 49 



Pickle for Hams, 



.49 



Pickled Lemons, 49 

Pickled Oysters, 49 

Pickled Peaches 49 

" " No. 2 49 

Pickled Tongue 49 

Raspberry Vinegar, 50 

Ripe Cucumber Sweet Pickle, 50 

Salad 50 

Salad Dressing, 50 

Spiced Currants 50 

Sweet Pickled Pears, 51 

Sweet Tomato Pickle, 51 

«' «' " No. '2,. .51 

Tomato Pickles, 51 

Tomato Catsup 51 

Tomato Catsup, 51 

" No. 2, 52 

Welsh Rarebit, 52 



BREAD. 



Wheat Bread and Rolls, 53 

Bannock, 53 

Blueberry Cake, 53 

" No. 2, 54 

Breakfast Puflfs, 54 

Brown Bread Togus, 54 

No. 2, ) 54 
Steamed, ) 
No. 3,.... 54 

" " " No. 4, 54 

Buckwheat Cakes 54 

California Biscuit, 54 

Corn Cake, 54 

Egg Pop-overs, . 



Flannel Cakes, 55 

French Toast, 65 

Ciraham Bread, 56 

Graham Rolls, 55 

Indian Breakfast Cake, 56 

Indian Cake, 55 

Indian Drop Cake 55 

Muffins, 55_ 

" No. 2, Flour, 56 

" No. 3, Graham, 56 

'• No. 4, Graham, 56 



Muffins, No. •' Indian Meal,. 56 
No Raised, ....56 

" No. /, Raised, 56 

No. 8, Rye 56 

Omelette, 57 

No. 2 57 

" No. 3 57 

Pancakes, 57 

" No. 2 57 

Parker House Rolls 57 

Potato Cakes 57 

Potato Rolls, 58 

Rusks, 58 

Squash Biscuit, 58 

Squash Fritters, 58 

Squash Griddle Cakes 58 

Tea Rolls, 58 

Waffles, 58 

" No. 2 59 

" No. 3, German, 59 

Wheat Gems 59 

Yeast, splendid, 59 

•' No. 2 59 

" No. 3, without Hops,. .59 



Once used is always preferred. 



98 



CONTENTS. 



CAKES. 



» 1 



Wedding Cake, . 
Almond Cake, . . . 

No. 

No. 
Almond Silver, 



3,, 



.60 
.60 
.«0 
.t)0 
«0 

Almond or White til 

Hoston Cingerbread, ttl 

Boston Puffs, «1 

Bread C'ake, til 

Bride's Cake, «1 

No. 2 til 

Bridgewater Cake, til 

Buns til 

Chocolate Cake, ti'2 

No. 2, ti2 

Citron Cake, 62 

Cocoanut, ti2 

.62 
.ti2 
.63 
.63 
.63 
.63 
.63 



" No. 2 

" No.3, 

" No. 4, 

Cookies, rich, 

No. 2 

No. 3 

No. 4, Rice Flour, 

Cold Water Cake, ti3 

Composition ti3 

Corn Starch, 63 

Crullers, 63 

Cream Cakes, 64 

Crumpets, ti4 

Currant Cake 64 

Dayton 64 

Delicate, 64 

No. 2, 64 

Delicious, 6.5 

Doughnuts, 65 

No. 2, 65 

" No. 3, 65 

" No. 4, 65 

English Walnut Cake, 65 

Feather, 65 

F'rench Cake, 65 

French Loaf, 66 

F"ruit, 66 

" No. 2, 66 

German Cakes, 66 

CJingerbread, Sugar, 66 

" No. 2. Hard Sucar. 66 



Gingerbread, No. 3, Molasses, 66 

(;inger Puffs 67 

Ginger Snaps, 67 

" No. 2, 67 

Gold Cake, 67 

Golden, 67 

Harrison, 67 

Henry Cake, 67 

Hartford Election Cake, 67 

Hermits, 68 

Hickory-nut Cake, 68 

Imperial, 68 

Jelly Cake, 68 

Jumbles, nice, ti8 

No. 2, Soft ti8 

Julia Cake, ti8 

Lemon Snaps, tii) 

Magic Cake, ti9 

Maggie's Gingerbread, 69 

Marbled Chocolate Cake 69 

Marshall Cake, 69 

Molasses, 69 

Molasses Cake, 69 

Mo.asses Drop 70 

Mrs. Clark's, 70 

Nice Cake, 70 

Plain Raisin 70 

Piccolomini, 70 

Rice Flour, 70 

Rockland, 70 

Sally Jewett Cake, 70 

Silver, 71 

Snow 71 

Spice, 71 

Sponge, 71 

" No. 2 7.1 

" No. 3, 71 

Sponge Cake. No. 4 71 

Sponge Drop, 72 

Trifles 72 

Walnut Cake, 72 

White Cake, 72 

No. 2, 72 

White Mountain, 72 

Methodist Cake, 72 

Fig Cake, 73 

Minnehaha Filling for Cake, . .73 



COOK'S FRIEND Baking Powder 



CONTENTS. 



99 



FANCY 



Almond Cakes 'J 

Almon.l Cream, "-1 

Apple Jelly, 74 

" No. 2 ii 

Checkerberry Props, 74 

Caramels, 74 

Chocolate 1 )rops, 7f> 

Chocolate Frosting, '.'i 

Cider Jelly 75 

Cocoanut Frosting, 7.1 

Conserve for Tea, Tfi 

Fruit Ice Cream ".'') 



Kisses, '^ 

( affaroma CoHee, 76 

Coftee Cream 7« 

Cortee Cream, 7»> 

Lemon Meringues, 7t5 

Meringues, < ' 

Molasses Candy, 77 

Orange Jelly, . 77 

i'eppermints, " 

Top Beer 77 

Rose Cakes, 7/^ 

White Frosting for Cake, 77 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



Rums and Scalds, 78 

Carpet Bug, . 78 

Cement, <J* 

Cleansing Bottles, 7!t 

Cleansing Class Jars, 7!» 

Cleansing Jars 79 

Cleaning Knives 7!> 

Cure for Boils, 80 

Cure for Chilblains 80 

Cure for Dysentery, 80 

Cure for Poisoning, 80 

Cure for Sm; ■ '.'ox, 80 

Cure for War's, 80 

How to Choose Meat, ..81 



1 low to Cook Steak, 81 

How to Clean Taint 81 

Ink Removed from Mahogany, 82 

Manner of Cooking 82 

Remedy for a Felon, 82 

Remedy for Bad Breath, 82 

To Remove a Tight Ring, 82 

To Remove I'aint and Putty 

from Window (Jlass, 8:{ 

Kitchen Rhyme, 8.3 

Weights and Measures, 84 

Liquid Measures, 84 

Time for Boiling \egetaliles, . .8.1 
Kssentials, 86 



CANDY. 



Chocolate Caramels, 87 

Chocolate Drops 87 

Cocoanut and Chocolate('andy,87 

Molasses Candy 87 

Nut Candy, 88 

Butter Scotch, 88 

Cream Candy 88 

Chocolate Caramels 88 

Molasses Candy, 88 

Cocoanut Drops, 88 

Cream Candy, 88 

Sugar Candy 89 

Peanut Candy, 



.8il 



Cream Candy, S9 

Vinegar Candy, 89 

Chocolate ('andy,.. 90 

Cream Walnuts, 90 

Molasses Taffy, ^0 

Cream Walnuts, 90 

Sugar Candy, ^0 

Peppermint Drops, 90 

Maple Cream, **1 

Chocolate Caramels, 91 

Chocolate Iceing, 91 

( "ocoanut I )rops 91 



Never disappoints the user. 



-- '; 






'i 1, 



v'j < 



■^O^"" *^^ V 



^ / 



y . 



/ -Wj ^. c^ 






^V^ feci ■ 



'M 

^ 

f 



f-C^ 



,<- 1, 






'I. " 



DO YOU WISH TO PROVIDE 



rOE YOURSELF 
VOR YOUR WIFE 
ioK YOUR CHILDREN 
FOR A RELATIVE 
FOR A DEBT 



WHETHER YOU LIVE 

-OR- 
WHETHER YOU DIE ? 



FOR A BUSINESS LOAN 



The /Etna Life In^upance dompanij 

will furnish, this provisinn for less rnonrt/ than it 
can he done in iinij otlirr uuiy. 

T. H. CHRISTMAS, Afcitia^ier, 
EASTERN Canada Branch, 
PAID TO INSURED OPPOSITE THE POST OFFICE, 

MORE THAN 84 MILLION DOLLARS. MONTREAL. 



John Carlisle, 



MANUFACTURER OF 
ALL KINDS OF 

Mill Chairs 

FOR 

RICH AND POOR 




LADIES' and GENTLEMEN'S 

^GLOVBSh 




ll'i' i^iinriiiiliW rr'ri'v (n'l'i'i tiv si/t. 

IVc -i'ill 111 ii> riiK HAM) any Glove 
wc sell either to Ladies or Gentlemen. 

Our stock of Ladies" and Gentlemen's 
Gloves, for both Day and Evening wear, 
lannot he surpassed for qualtty or price. 



GLOVES REPAIRED FREE OF CHARGE. 



WAREROOMS: 



1666 NOTRE DIME ST., MONTREAL 



W. GODBSE BROWN & CO., 

221 ST, JAUSS STBEET. 



m -i 



j« 



i;< f 



s I 



ESTABLISHED 1834. 

JOHK Hekderson & Co. 






H Sil^'lisi'i'S) K 




aM iFlKSSP 



229 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



^ 




YOU WILL GET 

Full Value foi< 

Youi' Monsij 

By Buiying your Hoots and Slioe« at 



2243 ST. CATHERINE STREET. COR. OF VICTORIA ST 
And No. I St. Lawrence Main St., Cor. of Craiq. 



G. H. HOLLAND, 
Wall ^^ptxs^ 

CHURCH AND CEILIN G DECORATIONS. 
^ Wall Papers from 5o. to $3.00 per roll, "^t 

AVERAGE SIZE ROOM REQUIRES 10 PIECES. 
. <«» « 

G. H. HOLLA/\/D, 1758 & 1760 NOTRE DAME STREET. 



a 



Co. 



^ 



T, 




lioe« at 
TORIA ST., 

^RAIQ. 



D, 



A.TIONS. 

1. -sa 



f STREET. 



The True and Natural Principle 

-TjlE Teet|1, 




^a 



^^^^SHma THK ^^^^ 



.t>' 



Is now welcomed by ^ chorus of Dentists and Physicians, 
M in all parts of the U. S. and Canada, as its 

perfect results become known. 



A PERFECT 
POLISHEh OF 
THE ENAMEL. 




^ 



A GENTLE 

STIMULANT TO 

THE GUM?. 



A THOROUGH CLEANSER OF THE TEETH. 



Tl VOIDS all the well-known Irritation and Discomforts and Injuries of 
A^ Bristles. A blessinj; to adults. A delight to children. More cconom- 
^ ical, //lom cleanly than harsh hiistks. 

WHAT LEADING DENTISTS SAY. 

Dr. Geo. F. Smith, D.D.S., Chic-igo, III, writes: 

"1 find it very satisfactory, and shall recommend it to my patients, especially to 
juveniles." 
Dr. Chas. H. Coourich, D.D.S., St. Paul, Minn., writes: 

" Your invention possesses a feature which seems to me important, viz ; The enforced 
cleanliness arising from periodical changes of the Fells. After a short time a toothbrush 
becomes foul and hurtful . but all thi>, the Felt Hrush remedies. ' 

Dk. VV. Geo. Beers, D.D.S., Montreal, writes : 

" It ought to be a luxury as well as a stimuhuit to use the Kelt Polisher, constructed 
as it is, and I believe that with that and the Floss Silk between the teeth nothing belter can 
be relied upon." 

KCONOMY, I3ENEK1T AND COMF^ORT. 

^ ♦« ^» •♦-^ 

MANUFACTURED BY 

HORSEY MANUFACTURING CO., UTIOA, N.Y. 



SOLID B-y ALL DRXJO-GHSTS. 
WHOLESALE AQENT8 FOR CANADA : 

ITMAU, KHOX & CO., * * MOHTREAL. 



mk 



GAS STOVES. 

The best, cheapest and cleanest way of cooking is by GAS. 
And the most economical and efficient (ias Stove made is 
miinufactured by _ 

^n- THE MOHTREAL GAS COMPAS? ^^ 

They also manufacture a Hot Water ^f^^^^^;;^^ 
purposes and for Baths. A constant supply of HOI WAll.K 
can also be had for Washing purposes. 

A great variety of GAS ITRES, GRATES, .S:c., FOR 
HE.VITNG ROOMS, always on hand. 

All the GAS COMPANY'S goods are sold at much lower 
figures than they can be purchased elsewhere. 

THE MONTREAL GAS COMPANY. 

Corner ST. JAMES and ST. GABRIEL STREETS. 



Gi^ab-Apple Blo^^om^. 

T/ie New and Exqtdsite Perfume! 

4711 1 



ti 



(i 



White Rose Glycerine Soap. 
Eau de Cologne 
Jockey Club 
^ Lettuce 

^"711 I Eau de Cologne (all sizes). 

BRAND. 



) 



FOR SALE BY ALL DRUGGISTS. 

LYMAN. KNCOT&'COT MONTREAL, 

WHOLESAI-E AQBNTS. 



if. a 



is by OAS. 

tovc made is 

.ST 4^' 

it for Culinary 
lOr VVATKR 

S, &c., KOR 

at much lower 

PANY, 

llEL STREETS. 

Perftime ! 

irine Soap. 



ii 
li 
if 



all sizes). 

TS. 

NTREAL, 



APOTHKCARV, 

169 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN ST. (2nd Door above Dorchester), 

Stt.i4»yAtt»n4MM: MONTREAL. ^, .^^^ 

10 ».m. to i p.m. «d 4.30 ts 6 p.m. TELEPHONE No. 1690. 

I would bee to call the attention of the public to the following advantages 
guaranteed them by the system adopted in my Department for Dispensing 
Physicians' Prescriptions: 

The Dispensary being quite separate from other Branches of the Business. 
All Medicines are Compounded under my immediate superintendence. 
A Copy of every Prescription is kept 
The prompt Delivery of Medicines in all Districts. 
As also to a few of uiy Specialties : 
DATVSON'S COMPOUND PEOTORAL SYRUP.-The 
popular Remedy for Coughs, Bronchitis, and the distressing Cough of 
Consumption. Ko.r Children, it has no equal. 
DAWSON'S RHEUMATIC CURE. -An eflecUi.al Remedy for 

all Rheumatic affections. 
DAWSON'S STOP-IT.— An infallible Remedy for Toothache. 
DAWSON'S ODONTINE SAPONACEOUS. -A perfect Tooth 

Powder. 
DA"W SON'S .DENTALINE. A perfect Tooth Wash. 



O-ET -S-O-CJI?, iasrO-K,E3I>IE3iTTS FOI^ 




OP 

J. D. WHITE & CO., 

(Late Can. Co-Operative Oo.> 

GROCERS^ Ac.^ 
2206 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

53 XJJSriVBRSIT-Z" STRESEJO?. 

PEEK, BEHHErrTsiiffSOH, LOHDOH, ESG., 

PURE SPICES. 

C. & B. FLAVORING EXTRACTS. 

(}o]['?. $m\ gelatine, parijian Essence, 

COCHINEAL. ROSE WATER, BAY LEAVES, &C. 

TELEPHONE, 4072. 



■ ] WJ i' J iff'—'»r''" yy ' 



wmma iBTriiiaif. 



ii 



THOMAS LIGGET 

Carrier tlie I^akokst ^All(l .\H)>iT .Vakiklj 

StoeU of 



In tlie Ooniiriioii.MiKl iiittkess 

Cluivcli (Carpeting aiib Jfiiiuisluiigs a 5^pecialtn. 



Tenders Submitted for Large Contracts 



9 



1884 Notre Dame Street, 

IVlONTRKAIv. 



*<> 



K> 



i^ 



A CHOICE COLLECTION. 



\Vk ark Siiowim; a very kink Ski.kctio.n ok 

FINE CHINA & GLASSWARE 

For ordinary Tahi.k use; also, a lot ok 
Choice Pieces ok 

^ BRIC-A-BRAC, 

SuiTAKLK For Weddinc. Presents 

AND Drawinc;-Room Decorations. 

ARTISTIC TABLE LAMPS. 

WE INVITE INSPECTION. 

WILEY'S, 1803 NOTRE DAME ST. 

N.B. — Church Chandeliers a Specialty. 



(>• 



