LIBRARY Of CONGRESS. 

i^qt + ■ ©ujqrig^i lffl+ 

Shelf ,24 4 I 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 




LJ-H—J frT H E< X_^h-^- 



OHIO FARMER'S 

HOME#GUIDE 



•^ 



« 



«\i 



BOOK 



&^ 






A complete manual of practical instruction in every 
department of household economy, including the 
kitchen, the laundry, the dining-room, the par- 
lor, the sleeping rooms, fancy work, home 
decoration, parental duty, etc., etc. 



1 



n* 



(K 



FEB 27 I88i j X 




THE OHIO FARMER 

Cleveland, - Ohio. 



<[ 



A* 






Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1888, 

By M. J. LAWRENCE & BRO. 

In the Office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington, D. C. 



PREFACE. 



This book is a compilation of the best practical 
articles, receipts, hints and suggestions that have 
appeared in the Household Department of The 
Ohio Farmer during the past few years, with the 
addition of new matter from other sources, to 
make the book the complete home manual desired. 
The selections were made and the articles rewritten 
and arranged by Mrs. Eva A. Season, a lady 
thoroughly competent for the task. The book 
is sent forth with the hope that it may be of 
genuine assistance to the wives and mothers of 
America in their arduous and responsible duties. 



home: 

This word has a comparatively narrow signification in 
this country; generally it is used to denote a "dwelling 
place." The English attach a far deeper meaning to it. 
To them it means "the place where the heart is/' the one 
place on earth where, above all others, the affections are 
centered — father, mother, brother, sister, are all concentra- 
ted in that one word. To make our dwelling place a home 
it must be made attractive; it need not be fashionable; it 
must be neat. Do not shut out the sunshine; it may fade 
the carpet, but it will preserve the health of the inmates, 
and give an air of cheerfulness all through the house. Do 
not be afraid of a little fun. If you want to ruin your sons, 
let them think that all mirth and social enjoyment must be 
left on the threshold when they come home at night 1 When 
once a home is regarded as only a place in which to eat, 
drink and sleep, the work is begun that ends in gambling- 
houses and reckless degradation. Young people must have 
fun and relaxation somewhere; if they do not find it at their 
own hearth-stones, it will be sought at other and perhaps 
less profitable places. Therefore let the fire burn brightly 
at night, and make the homestead delightful with all those 
little arts that parents so perfectly understand. Do not re- 
press the buoyant spirit of your children. Half an hour of 
merriment around the lamp, in the firelight of a home, blots 
out the remembrance of many a care and annoyance of the 
day; and the best safeguard children can take with them 
into the world is the blessed influence of a bright little 
domestic sanctum. 



— 6 — 

Encourage your children to bring their companions 
home with them occasionally, say once a month; allow 
them a cheerful room, well-lighted and warmed. Encour- 
age them in vocal and instrumental music, in parlor games 
and other innocent recreations. And although it is well to 
look in upon them sometimes, to know them, do not remain 
to be a restraint upon them, but let them enjoy themselves 
in their own way. The fact that you take an interest in 
them, and try to make them happy, will be sufficient to 
keep them from becoming too boisterous, and will teach 
them moderation and self-control. Let cheerful conversa- 
tion be encouraged, and the children invited to join in and 
ask questions. Children hunger perpetually for new ideas. 
They will learn with pleasure from the lips of parents what 
they deem drudgery to study in books, and even if they 
have the misfortune to be deprived of many educational 
advantages, they will grow up intelligent if they enjoy in 
childhood the privilege of listening daily to the conversa- 
tion of intelligent people. We sometimes see parents, who 
are the life of every company they enter, dull, silent and 
uninteresting at home among their children. If they have 
not mental activity and mental stores sufficient for both, 
let them first use what they have for their own household. 
A silent house is a dull place for young people, from which 
they will escape if they can. Instead of swallowing your 
food in sullen silence, or brooding over your business, or 
severely talking of others, let the conversation at the table 
be genial, kind, social and cheering. Do not bring disa- 
greeable things to the table in your conversation, any more 
than you would in your dishes. The more good company 
you have at your table, the better. Hence comes the in- 
telligence, refinement, and appropriate behavior of a family 
that is given to hospitality. In your own conversation 
never lose sight of the fact that the first essential thing is 
truth — the next, good sense — the third, good humor — and 
the fourth, wit. 



— 7 — 

Boys are more boisterous than girls; it is natural to 
them, and they should not be unduly restrained, or it may 
crush out that fine manly spirit and elasticity which enable 
the man to surmount all diffculties. Boys and girls should 
be brought up together, as companions; in this way boys 
are more gentle, pure minded and conscientious than those 
educated wholly with their own sex. So girls brought up 
with boys are always more vigorous in thought and action, 
less vain and frivolous, than when under the care of 
women alone. In domestic happiness the wife's influence 
is much better than the husband's, for (the one first cause, 
mutual love and confidence, being granted) the whole com- 
fort of the household depends upon trifles more immediately 
under her jurisdiction. By her management of small sums, 
her husband's respectability and credit are created or 
destroyed. No fortune can stand the constant leakages of 
extravagance and mismanagement; and more is spent in 
trifles than women would easily believe. The one great 
expense, whatever it may be, is turned over and carefully 
reflected on, ere incurred, the income is prepared to meet 
it, but the pennies imperceptibly sliding away do the mis- 
chief, and this the wife alone can stop, for it does not come 
within a man's province unless he be of intemperate habits. 
It is not in economy alone that the wife's attention is 
so necessary, but in those niceties which make a well-reg- 
ulated house. An unfurnished cruet-stand, a missing key, 
a buttonless shirt, a soiled tablecloth, a mustard pot with 
old contents are really nothings, but each can raise angry 
words and cause discomfort. Depend upon it there is a 
great deal of domestic happiness about a well-cooked mut- 
ton-chop or a tidy breakfast table. Men grow sated with 
beauty, tired ot music, are often too wearied for conversa- 
tion however intellectual, but they can always appreciate 
a well-swept hearth and smiling comfort. Better submit, 
then, to household tasks, however repugnant they may be 
to your tastes, than doom yourself to a loveless home. A 



— 8 — 

good appetite is essential to good digestion, but a snow- 
white tablecloth is a great promoter of a good appetite. 
No one can eat in comfort if any member of the family ap- 
pears at the table in slovenly dress, with unkempt hair, 
showing a breadth ot black under the finger nails, with a 
hawking and spitting, and a blowing of the nose, and asso- 
ciated habits. But the spotless napkin, the most splendid 
roast, and faultless concomitants, all amount to little if sad- 
ness is written on the face of the wife, if an angry scowl 
gleams from the corrugated brow of a morose husband, or 
a dissatisfied look comes from a child's eye, and the meal is 
partaken ot in ominous silence. 

Rather let the family table be the place of glad reunions, 
let courtesies more than courtly phrases be ever cultivated, 
let smiles wreathe every face, let light hearts, and cheery 
words, and obliging acts, and watchful attentions be the 
order of the day. These are the promoters of a healthy 
digestion, and these are the things which largely help to 
make happy homes, and good hearts and generous natures. 

Dr. Geo. H. Cantwell. 



HUSBANDS AND WIVES. 

There is an old saying that is very true: "A woman can 
throw out in a spoon as fast as a man can bring in with a 
shovel." Some women take pride in telling how much they 
have used for this or that, instead of how little they could 
have used and obtained the same or better results. If a 
woman understands perfectly the platform on which she and 
her husband are standing, in nine cases out of ten she will 
be a much better wife than she would be if he never en- 
trusted her with the many ups and downs in business life 
which are attached even to the life work of a farmer. A 



— 9 — 

good husband will procure every convenience which his 
means will permit and a good wife will ask nothing un- 
reasonable. And so it is if their interests are one, instead 
of "this is mine" and '"that is yours," life will be prosper- 
ous and when old age comes it will not find them depen- 
dent upon their friends, but they can enjoy the fruits of 
their labors, which they have garnered in past years. It is 
our duty to teach our children to be "diligent in business, 
and fervent in spirit, serving the Lord," and then, and not 
until then, will they be fitted to enter the work which will 
open to them. * 

When a young couple enter the matrimonial state, the 
heavens are very bright, not a single cloud appears to 
obscure the bright vision which looms up before their 
young eyes, but if they have not been brought up to rely 
upon themselves in part and have* not been taught to 
thoroughly understand business matters, they will not make 
a success. One word to the young people: Go no faster 
than your means will admit. If a friend has a much nicer 
carriage than you, if his horses can pass yours at any time, 
be contented; be industrious, be honest, and the time, ; n 
all probability, will come when all of these and much more 
will be yours. Benhartina. 



WOMAN ON THE FARM. 

I think of her often, "toiling on, toiling on," without 
rest or recreation, year after year, from the beginning of 
her married life until death comes and leads her out into the 
"great beyond." Poets have sung her praises, and sages 
have extolled her virtues, but, while there is virtue, little ot 
poetry does woman find on the farm. "Seek to be good, 
but aim not to be great" is perhaps the poetic sentiment 



— 10 — 

with which she is most familiar. A good minister of the 
gospel, who has had extensive experience in country par- 
ishes thus testifies: "I know of no class of women in this 
country which works so hard and receives so little in re- 
turn as farmers' wives. In many instances they are almost 
isolated from society. They are deprived of books, of pic- 
tures, indeed of every luxury, and I fear of many comforts." 

Is this an over-drawn picture ? Is it possible that with 
all that has been done for the past three centuries to ele- 
vate and better the condition of our race, American 
farmers' wives are left so far behind as to be only objects 
of pity and commiseration ? Does Dryden's prophecy; 
"By day the web and loom, and homely household task shall 
be her doom," prove true in this age of progress and machin- 
ery ? God forbid ! But may not even the faithful, hard- 
working farmer's wife rise in the might of her moral and 
intellectual strength, and free herself from the shackles that 
too long have bound her ? The time when the good house- 
wife needs to "rise in the night and give meat to her house- 
hold," or "seek wool and flax, and lay her hands to the 
spindle and take hold on the distaff," has passed away. But 
I think I hear one exclaim: "There is still enough left to 
be done I work all the time and hardly see how I can do 
less and keep my iamily comfortable." This is true and, 
perhaps, all too true, but could you not by good manage- 
ment leave some things undone that you now do, and still 
keep your family comfortable? If the desired result is 
achieved — making the family comfortable — why be so par- 
ticular as to methods ? 

Asking some intelligent lady triends what I should write 
that would prove helpful to farmers' wives, one says: "Tell 
them no- to work so many hours in a day." Another says: 
"Teh them to be independent and not let their husbands 
control every penny of money that comes into the house;" 
while still another bids me say that "they are not to dress 
their children like city children, but dress them plainly and 



— 11 — 

neatly, and take the rest of the money and invest it in good 
books, and then sit down with their children and read and 
talk over with them what the books contain." As all these 
suggestions seem so good, I have made a note of them, and 
will supplement them with my own suggestion that, above 
all things else, you keep your minds fresh. Feed them with 
good thoughts obtained by reading works of the best 
authors. The broken hearts, the shipwrecked lives that 
have resulted from the lack of good, pure, fresh thoughts, 
are known only to Him who readeth and knoweth the 
secrets of all hearts. The writer has passed many a lonely 
hour on the farm, but she was blessed with the companion- 
ship of good books. If she was despondent and thought 
herself the most unhappy of women, she recalled the tact 
that others had suffered and were unhappy. She recalled 
the fact, too, that in many cases the greatest benefactors of 
the race had been the«greatest sufferers. 

Mrs. J. E. Snow. 



SUCCESS IN HOUSE-KEEPING. 

Success in all branches ot business depends largely upon 
the force of thought and skill exercised in applying labor. 
The business of house-keeping covers a broad field of 
industry, and to be a good house-keeper, requires as much 
study and training as it does to fit a person for a profession. 
When a woman can rightfully lay claim to the title ot a 
skilled and competent house-keeper, she certainly proves 
that her time and thoughts have been spent to some pur- 
pose. It is not the amount of strength one possesses that fits 
her for success, but it is the knowledge of how and when to 
apply strength that brings the best results. A weak, frail 
woman may be able to accomplish wonders in the line of 



— 12 — 

work, but such a woman will always be found to possess tact, 
foresight, and a concentrative power of mind that enables her 
to arrange and classify a great amount of work, keeping 
hands, feet and brain busy at the same time. 

A good housekeeper is usually a quiet worker. She 
never blusters, or skips from one piece of work to another, 
as if she has lost her reckoning. Her voice is sweet and 
soothing as a gentle lullaby, and quiets a rebellious spirit 
as if by magic. Acting upon the conviction that "order is 
Heaven's first law," she has a place for everything, and 
keeps everything in its place; the home over which she pre- 
sides is a model of neatnesss and regularity. There is one 
point which every house-keeper, and especially inex- 
perienced ones, will do well to consider, and that is, whether 
or not she is performing the work in hand in the easiest, as 
well as in the most effectual way. By saving one step in 
every minute, we save 720 steps in 12 hours, and most of 
housekeepers know the time more often extends to 15 hours 
per day. We thus find an aggregate of 262,800 steps saved 
in one year's time; in 25 years, 6,570,000. If the human 
frame was like a bar of iron, and could be moulded over 
when worn, it would not matter, but such is not the case, 
and mankind must pay the penalty if physical laws are 
transgressed or broken. No matter in what cause, or by 
what act, the transgression is made, the penalty is sure to 
follow, heavy or light, according to the constitution of the 
transgressor. In view of this important truth, is it not well 
to study economy of strength, as well as time, when per- 
forming the duties of every day life ? 

There is always plenty of washing to do; 

Beds to be made, and garments too; 

Meals to be got, and clothes to mend, 

And just for diversion(?) the babies to tend. 

No matter how well these duties are done, 

They come again, with to-morrow's sun; 

A never ending circle it swings, 

Happy the woman who works as she sings. 



— 13 — 

This thought is worthy of note for a cheerful, contented 
and happy spirit is one of the most powerful auxiliaries to 
happiness in the "household. No work performed, however 
continuous, if it results in bringing comfort and domestic 
harmony into the home circle, need be termed or deemed 
work in vain. Dot. 



WOMAN'S MISSION. 

Girls, did you ever ask yourselves what your "mission" 
is ? This means the duty you are sent here to perform; the 
duty you owe to yourself and those around you. You are 
placed here to fill some position in life, and whatever it 
may be, strive to fill it well. Improve your spare moments 
in study and reading. Set a good example before your as- 
sociates by your kindness and fidelity. This is a duty you 
owe to yourself. 

What is the duty you owe to those around you ? You 
see that tired, wan-looking face, don't you, almost dragging 
herself around to fulfill her duties ? Do you ever go to her 
and say: "Mother, sit down or lie down and rest, I will 
do this?" If you did, you noticed that grateful look she 
cast upon you, and how, when a neighbor came in you 
heard her speak your praise, and say she "could never get 
along without her" and it made you happy, didn't it ? Do 
you ever care for the smaller ones, wait upon them, talk 
with them, and humor their childish caprices ? If so, you 
will notice how they love you; how they will sing your 
praise to other children a*s one of the best of sisters, end if 
a word should be spoken against you, it raises their ire. 
Such loyalty is worth all the kindness you can bestow. 
You do not forget your father, do you ? When he came in 
tired at night, if you got his slippers and easy chair, and 



— 14 — 

read to him if he wished, or sang to him, you noticed how 
proud and pleased he seemed over you. He thinks to him- 
self that a better daughter can not be found all the world 
over. A kind word spoken, a good deed done, may not 
seem much to you, but they are what makes you great, and 
much happier, and the world is better for your being 
in it. 

What is a wife's mission? Half the world does not 
realize the great duty that is given her to perform. She 
was created the weaker vessel, with a higher spirit of 
morality, more endowed with pity, love and refinement; 
a^d it is her good influence that leads man to a better life. 
Her kind words, love and sympathy spur him on with a de- 
termination to make a greater success of life. She is his 
guardian angel. Man worships a pure, noble woman 
more than he does his creator. Then does it not be- 
hoove you to exert good influence? Be the kind loving 
wife, companion and helpmate that he thought you would 
be, cheerfully sharing his fortunes and misfortunes. You 
remember that wild speculation that he went into and he 
became the loser. You had predicted as much, and how 
keenly you felt it. You did not care for yourself but the 
children. You had hoped to give them better advantages 
for an education. You had hoped to do much more for 
them. But now it could not be; you did not murmur or 
complain; the thing was done and could not be undone, 
but you hoped it might be a lesson. He knew that you felt 
this, and your quiet resignation went to his heart more than 
all your railings. Then your first-born was taken from you, 
the hope and pride of the household. Oh, those were dark 
days. You took your trouble to a higher power, while he 
leaned more upon you for sympathy. 

What is a mother's mission ? This is the greatest of all 
when we realize the fact that it is a "woman's hand that 
rules the world." Mothers, enlighten yourselves; teach 
your children in the way they should go. Your good ex- 



— 15 — 

ample, influence and teachings mould the character of 
those children. And if they are as they should be, in after 
years, when they pass from your domain, they will fondly 
cherish your memory. Your wise teachings and good in- 
fluence have made them kings among men. Woman's is a 
noble mission, and I have only portrayed a few of the most 
important duties that she is sent here to perform. If she 
performs these well, she can not feel that she has lived in 
vain. 



Ella. 



Wood County, O. 



Mother, watch the little feet, 
Climbing o'er the garden wall; 
Bounding through the busy street; 
Running through the shed and hall. 
Never count the moments lost, 
Never mind the time it cost; 
Little feet will go astray ; 
Guide them, mother, while you may. 

Mother, watch the little hand, 
Picking berries by the way ; 
Making houses in the sand, 
Tossing up the fragrant hay; 
Never dare the question ask, 
Why to me the weary task ? 
For those little hands may prove, 
Messengers of light and love. 

Mother, watch the little heart, 
Beating soft and warm for you; 
Wholesome lessons now impart 
Keep, oh, keep that young heart true, 
Extricating every weed, 
Sowing good and precious seed ; 
Harvest rich, you then may see, 
Ripening for eternity. 



— 16 — 
CARE OF BABY. 

Mothers, do not forget the comfort of your little ones, 
if you are busy. I know your thoughts have to be in many 
places at once, but take time to give baby proper care, 
even if the work has to be neglected. Babies seldom cry 
unless they are sick, uncomfortable or want something. Do 
not let them lie in one position too long, they get tired and 
cannot sleep; turn them gently when they begin to get 
restless and they will sleep as long again. Loosening their 
clothes, laying them across your lap and smoothing their 
backs with the palm of your hand will often quiet them 
when fretful. Above all things, do not neglect to give them 
water often. A good rule is to offer them a drink when you 
take one yourself. I have known babies under two weeks 
old to cry for water, just as if they had colic. Give them a 
teaspoonful at a time until they have enough. Catnip tea 
made fresh every day is a good drink for babies that are 
subject to colic, and the best remedy I ever tried is three 
or four drops of good brandy given in a teaspoonful of 
water; repeat the dose in fifteen minutes if necessary. Hate 
the water warm. 

If you go away from home it is best to take such rem- 
edies with you as are liable to be needed. If a baby rubs 
its ears and cries, it has ear-ache. Warm a few drops of 
olive oil and drop into the ear; or, if subject to it, put a 
level teaspoonful of powdered opium into two ounces of 
alcohol, shake well, then let it settle; put sixteen drops of 
this into half an ounce of best olive oil; shake well each 
time before using; drop two or three drops into the ear 
whenever an attack comes on. I have seen it used twice a 
day, or more, in bad cases. Often after the ears ache a 
t'.i~k matter will run from them, which makes them raw 
and sore and causes intense itching. For this, wash with 
white Castile soap, dry thoroughly and dust lightly with 
corn starch. After washing, be sure to wipe them perfectly 



— 17 — 

dry. Be very careful not to leave the insides of the ears 
wet, as this frequently is the cause of their aching. Take 
a small hairpin, fold a soft cloth over the round end, press 
gently around on the inside of the ear. This is a good way 
to wipe them. Let the child sleep in white flannel night- 
caps and wear cotton ones in the daytime, if they are thus 
afflicted in winter. I never knew the hearing to be affected 
when treated as above. 

Make baby's underwear of the finest white flannel; 
never use colored flannel next to them, as it often poisons 
them and causes sores and pimples all over the body and 
limbs. Make flannel shirts with sleeves to cover the wrists. 
Let them wear their shirts wrong side out so the seams 
will not hurt them. For the young infants it is generally 
better to have little short-sleeved undershirts of very thin 
white cotton goods. Have soft, loose, white wool stock- 
ings. For dandruff and scales on the head, put six drops 
camphor into a pint of warm rain water; use just a little fine 
soap (Colgate's, Babbitt's or Ivory is best,) and wash the 
head with this, then dry with soft cloth and put on a night- 
cap until the head becomes perfectly dry. This prevents 
taking cold. When babies chafe and get sore around the 
ears, and under the arms, wash with rain water with some 
new milk in it; dry carefully, and dust with corn starch. 
Put starch in a little bag made of thin white cloth, so it 
will sift out easily. But the very best remedy I ever used 
was "petroleum ointment," prepared by the family physi- 
cian for bed sores. Aunt Catherine. 



— 18 — 

THE DISPENSARY. 

HINTS FOR THE SICK ROOM. 

BY E. P. MILLER, M. D. 

Whoever attends in the sick room should see to it that 
all the little needful attentions are given to the comfort of 
the patient, without the least thought or care on the part of 
the sick one. If in cold weather and in the country where 
wood is used, be sure to keep the fire replenished so that an 
even temperature of about 70° may be maintained. A ther- 
mometer should always hang in the room, as people in 
general are so uneven in feeling, that it is not best to trust 
to any one's judgment. If coal is used, keep a clear clean 
fire, and see that no gas escapes into the room. If the 
room is heated by a furnace, the register must be nicely 
managed so that no more heat than is necessary shall be 
admitted. Except in very cold localities, or upon very 
cold days, a little out-door air should be constantly ad- 
mitted, but trom a point whence no uncomfortable draught 
shall reach the patient. Ventilating by a window in an ad- 
joining room, with the door open between, is always desir- 
able. An open fire-place is preferable to any other method 
of heating, as it aids in securing perfect ventilation. If 
water is kept upon the stove, be sure that the basin or urn 
is clean and the water frequently renewed, as the smell of 
a burning basin or a drying urn is very offensive as well as 
hurtful. If the patient must be left alone at times, place a 
small bell or cane close at hand whereby attention may be 
called if needed. This gives a feeling of safety to the pa- 
tient, and of relief from constant anxiety to the attendant. 

The sick-room should never be made a family room; 
however much the patient may desire it, it is not for his 
good that family arrangements should be discussed, or 
family topics argued in his presence. One visitor at a 
time, and this at intervals, even of the family, should be 
the rule. No one can realize except by experience, the 



— 19 — 

effect of company or conversation upon sensitive nerves, 
even though the patient is a babe or a very young child, 
whom many people think cannot be injured by company 
because it does not know what is said, never allow conver- 
sation or unusual noises in its hearing. The little nerves 
are often more sensitive than those in adult life, and every 
stir is a jar from which it shrinks. Many a mother has often 
unwittingly injured her child by permitting a garrulous 
neighbor to sit and chatter with her, while she sought in 
vain to sooth her moaning babe. 

The care of the sick by night is often made a more 
arduous task than necessary. If the patient is very low, 
night-watchers are, of course, essential, but as a general 
thing they had better be dispensed with. A talkative 
watcher harms the patient, and a talkative patient harms 
himself by the opportunity which a night-watch affords, of 
talking by night as well as day. No visitor whatever 
should be admitted after night fall and everything should 
tend to quiet and repose. All the little preparations for the 
night should be attended to as soon as twilight comes, and 
as early as nine o'clock the lights extinguished, and the 
household at rest, for the knowledge that no noise will disturb 
is soothing to the tired nerves of the patient. The attend- 
ant should be near, but it is better to have a separate bed 
or lounge upon which to lie, and sometimes this may be 
in an adjoining room. All the appointments for striking a 
light quickly should be at hand. A candle or wax taper is 
better than a lamp. A kerosene lamp should never be 
turned low for any one, sick or well, as the gas then emit- 
ted is very poisonous. Kerosene is better than gas, because 
it does not flare up with such a strong and sudden light, 
and can be changed from place to place. If a light must 
be kept burning, if possible put it in an adjoining room. In 
some way screen the light from the patient's eyes. An 
open fire should also be screened. 

No physician will want a patient disturbed at night, or 



— 20 — 

when sleeping at any time, as no treatment, no potion, no 
application, is so effectual as sleep in the restoration of 
health; therefore never awaken a patient to administer 
anything, unless by a special order from the physician.. 
When it is absolutely necessary to have night watchers, as 
sometimes in acute diseases, or when death draws nigh, be 
sure they be quiet, restful, self-poised, watchful of changes, 
but not timid or easily alarmed. Never rattle a newspaper,, 
or rustle the leaves of a book, or write with a pen in the 
sickroom at night, for these sounds will make a nervous 
person almost wild. Do not sit and sew or rip in the 
patient's sight, as the drawing through, or clipping, of the 
thread is often very trying to the nerves. I have known 
the darning of a stocking in the sight of a sensitive patient 
to bring on severe cramps in the stomach, and for days 
afterward the thought of the darning would produce pain. 
The nurse should never seat herself, or allow a visitor to 
be seated, nor any object to attract attention to be placed 
in such a position as to strain the patient's eyes to look at 
it. A chair should be placed half way down from the 
head to the foot of the bccl. In this position neither 
patient nor visitor receives the other's breath, and neither 
eyes nor ears need be strained for sight or sound. Over- 
sensitive ears may require a greater distance, but of this 
the nurse should have knowledge and should remove the 
seat to the requisite distance. The nurse should also not 
fail to gently notify the visitor when the call has been pro- 
longed as far as is for the patient's good. Every little item 
I have mentioned should be thoughtfully and regularly- 
attended to, without the patient's ever having to think about 
it, much less remind the attendant of it. Remember, it is 
the little things that make up the comfort or discomfort of 
the patient, and keep the mind, and with it the body, at 
rest or irritated. 



— 21 — 

A FEW WELL-TRIED REMEDIES. 

MR. BAUDER'S GREEN SALVE. 

Take 1 lb. of yellow resin; 1 lb. burgundy pitch; y* lb. 
"honey; ^ lb. common turpentine; \y 2 lbs. lard; 4 oz. 
beeswax; 1 lb. verdigris finely powdered. Melt the ingre- 
dients together, but do not put the verdigris in till nearly 
cold, then keep stirring all the time till cold to prevent the 
verdigris from falling to the bottom. This is one of the 
best salves for wounds, and especially for old ones. Take 
lukewarm sweet milk, or soft water (milk is best) and wash 
the wound clean; put the salve on a white muslin rag, very 
thin. Use castile soap. 

SALVE FOR CRACKED HANDS. 

Take 7 oz. of white resin; ^ oz. beeswax; y 2 oz. mut- 
ton tallow; melt together in a clean pan, pour into cold 
water. When cold enough, take out and pull as you would 
taffy. The more you work it the better. Pull out long 
and cut in sticks. Be exact in weighing ingredients. This 
is a splendid salve for cuts, bruises or burns. 

BALM OF GILEAD OINTMENT. 

Mutton tallow, ^ lb.; balm, gilead buds, 2 oz.; 
white pine gum, 1 oz.; red precipitate, -J oz.; hard soap, 
-£oz.; white sugar, 1 tablespoonful. Stew the buds in the 
tallow until the strength is obtained, and press out or strain; 
scrape the soap and add it with the other articles to the 
tallow, using sufficient unsalted butter or sweet oil to bring 
it to a proper consistence to spread easily on cloth. When 
nearly cool stir in the red precipitate, mixing thoroughly. 



22 

MULLEIN TEA FOR CONSUMPTION. 

J. E. S. tells us that our pioneer housewives had faith 
to believe that a pretty serious case of consumption could 
be cured by the liberal use of mullein tea, and gives us the 
formula thus:— Half an ounce of dried mullein leaves well 
steeped in a pint and a half of hot water. Strain off and to 
the liquid add four tablespoonfuls of honey. Let these 
two ingredients come to a boil, then add the juice of half 
a lemon. When cool, put into a bottle and cork well. Take 
a tablespoonful three times a day. 

HOP SYRUP FOR COUGH. 

Two quarts water; four handfuls hops; boil down to one 
quart, strain, then add 1^ lbs. white sugar, and juice of two. 
lemons. Stir well, and bottle for use. 

REMEDY FOR GOITER. 

Dr. R. Mitchell, connected with a large medical com- 
pany in Detroit, gives this remedy: — Take Iodine, put into 
a bottle, say half full, and place in the sun. Add a little 
Ammonia every day until the Iodine becomes colorless^ 
Apply this twice a day. He states that he has never failed 
to cure with this, if taken in time. 

REMEDY FOR EARACHE. 

A Spanish physician recommends a liniment composed 
of camphorated chloral, two and a half parts; oil of sweet 
almonds, ten parts. This is to be well mixed and put into 
a bottle having a rubber cork. A pledget of very soft 
cotton is to be soaked in the liniment, and then introduced 
as far as possible into the affected ear, applying twice daily. 
Rub well with this preparation each day behind the ear. It 
is asserted that the pain is almost immediately relieved* 



— 23 — 

VERMIFUGE OIL. 

Oil of worm seed, ^ oz.; oil of turpentine, 2 drs.; oil of 
ricini, H ozs.; fluid extract pink, ^ oz.; hydrastin, 10 grs.; 
syrup peppermint, -J oz.; dose — To a child 10 years of age, 
a teaspoonful three times a day, one hour before each 
meal; if it purges too freely, give less, often. Prof. Z. Free- 
man, who gives this formula, writes that this is an excellent 
vermifuge tonic and cathartic, and has never failed to 
eradicate worms if any were present. If none are present, 
it answers the purpose of a tonic, correcting the condition 
of the mucous membrane of the stomach and bowels, im- 
proving the appetite and digestion, and operating as a mild 
cathartic. 

DIARRHEA DROPS. 

Mix tincture of rhubarb, and compound spirits of laven- 
der, of each 4 oz.; laudanum, 2 oz., cinnamon oil, 2 drops. 
Dose, one teaspoonful every three or four hours, accord- 
ing to the severity of the case. 

CURING HEADACHE. 

Severe headaches may be relieved by holding the head 
down and having another person pour a pitcher of water as 
hot as can be borne upon the back of the neck at the base 
of the brain. More than one pitcher full should be used, ac- 
cording to the severity of the case. Bromides of potassium 
and sodium are very useful, and any quantity can be ob- 
tained of a physician. 

FOR' PAINLESS CHILD BIRTH. 

Take of blue cohosh root, 4 oz.; ladies slipper, 1 oz.; 

spikenard, 1 oz.: sassafras and clover, 1 oz. Macerate and 

simmer two hours in two quarts of boiling water. Strain 

and add 1 lb. white sugar. The dose is one wine-glass 

full twice a day for four to six weeks before confinement. 

H. L. Spence, m. d. 
Kent, O. 



24 



CARPETS AND CARPETING. 

Very many persons know little of the different grades 
and qualities of carpets. Unprincipled dealers will often 
recommend a very inferior article, because more profit is 
made upon it than upon one thoroughly first class. As 
carpets cost something, it behooves us to look well to the 
quality when buying. In this day we frequently find the 
homes of farmers as well furnished as those of their city neigh- 
bors, and often it can be better afforded. What to buy in 
the line of furnishings has puzzled many a woman. In the 
line of carpets any good reliable dealer will tell you that 
the " Hartford Carpet Company" manufacture the best 
Moquettes, Wiltons, Body Brussels and Imperial Three- 
plys in America. They operate over 400 looms, and have 
manufactured these goods for fifty years. They do not 
advertise, but every dealer knows their real worth. Their 
patterns, as well as those of the Lowell Ingrain Company, 
are largely copied in very inferior goods. A carpet of 
Lowell Ingrain will last a lifetime. I know of one in con- 
stant use for twenty-three years, and the colors are as rich 
and bright to-day as when first put down, and it is very 
little worn. Among well principled dealers the Lowell is 
the standard Ingrains. This firm has been in operation 
for over fifty years, and while 'the reduction in prices has 
caused other manufactures to decline in quality, these goods 
are, so far as the weight, durability and fineness of the 
fabric are concerned, the same as in our grandmothers' 
days. This cannot be said of any other firm in America, 
in this line of goods. A hollow stick was the trade-mark in 
1847 as well as 1887. 

> Rag carpets.— Planning the quantity of rags depends on. 
your weaver, as some call for a pound and a half of rags to 
the yard of carpet, and others only ask for a pound and a 



— 25 — 

quarter. It is well to have plenty. Six knots of warp are 
needed to a yard, and brown, I think, is the best color. 
Use the Union Warp, manufactured at Troy, N. Y., as it is 
much less liable to fade and is very strong. If you have 
plenty of brown, red, and old calico (folded or twisted right 
side out when wound), and a little orange yellow, green and 
black, there is no reason why you should not have a hand- 
some carpet. Some buy orange prints, instead of coloring. 
If you have old indigo blue dresses, and think that blue i,s 
not pretty in carpet, just dip it in your dye when coloring 
yellow, and you will have a very good dark green. 

In making a carpet of the hit-and-miss style, use caution. 
Have plenty of bright colors (reds and yellows), but do not 
use either one in too great quantity in one spot. Have the 
colors unequal as much as you can; that is, do not let the 
same colors occur at regular intervals. This covers a floor 
more warmly and handsomely, as far as appearance goes 
at least, and is much easier to match if after a time you 
wish to renew worn places, than if you had made a set 
design. Have plenty of rich, dark colors also, and about 
the same of light ones. Perhaps as good an effect as can 
be wished for may be had by dividing the colors into four 
divisions — very light shades, very dark, very medium or 
neutral, and very brilliant. Put white with the first lot, 
black with the second, and let the last lot consist only of 
most brilliant shades of reds and yellows. Have your rags 
thus assorted before you begin, and sew them together hit- 
-or-miss, without the slightest attempt at regularity. 

There are many ways to sew rags, but the most expe- 
rienced carpet makers and weavers tell me that they prefer 
this method: Lap your pieces well over each other, fold 
•double lengthwise, have stout thread without any knots at 
the end, run the length of about three-fourths of an inch 
from right to left, and then back again slightly below or 
above "the first line of stiches, and cut the thread without 
any fastening-off process. 



— 26 — 

Smyrna rugs. — You are supposed to have gathered up 
some rags in times past and have them ready. See that 
they are all clean and assorted in packages or boxes, accord- 
ingto colors. They must be all woolen rags, to make a hand- 
some rug, and of as uniform thickness as possible That is, 
they should be all medium in weight, and not so heavy as for 
rag carpet. Cut them in strips three fourths of an inch wide 
without deviation. The pieces may be long or short, but they 
are not to be sewed together. Have a needle threaded with a 
strong flax thread just five yards long, and enough extra for 
a knot at each end. Take the rags hit-or-miss, first from 
one colored pile, then another, and gather them through 
the center, onto your thread, shirring them up close as you 
go, until your five yard thread is well filled. Lap each 
piece a little way over the last one, as you gather, so there 
will be no gaps in the weaving, but there must be no knots 
or joints to make ugly lumps or thick places in the strings. 
The rugs are to be woven in the same way that rag carpets 
are; and carpet weavers will undertake the job. You can 
scarcely tell just how many rags it will take for a certain 
sized rug; it will depend upon the thickness of the rags and 
other reasons. You must experiment till you find out. 
These rugs, if carefully made, are extremely handsome, and 
will pay you well, both in service and beauty, for the time 
and care you bestow upon them. They should be woven 
by a thoroughly good weaver, and then they will look (if 
the rags have been cut and gathered as directed) as pretty, 
and be warmer and thicker than Smyrna carpet rugs. They 
will be very thick, and alike on both sides. The rags being 
shirred so full, the warp or chain will not show when fin- 
ished, and the effect is very rich. One thing you may be 
sure of is that it will take a great many rags to make a rug 
one yard by three-fourths, and your best way is to try a 
smaller one first on which to experiment. 

Yarn Rug. — Cast ten or twelve stitches (according to 
the size of the yarn) on a needle, using two needles; knit 



-27- 

plain back and forth in strips as long as you like. Take 
the two edges of the strips you have knit and sew them onto 
a piece of old bed ticking, beginning in the center and 
turning square corners. After sewing the edges to the 
cloth, take your scissors and cut the strips through the cen- 
ter, then with the fingers ravel them down to the edge 
sewed on. Sew the rows just far enough apart so that 
when raveled they will cover the cloth nicely. After knit- 
ting the strips they must be dampened and pressed before 
sewing on, so they will be crinkled when raveled down. If 
you have a variety of colors you can put them in hit-and- 
miss, if only three or four, put some pretty color in the 
center, and arrange the others in borders around that. 
When it is large enough, knit some pretty edge for a border, 
or if you use some old ball or tassel fringe, it looks very 
pretty. 



COLORING RECEIPTS. 

Brown, for Cotton Rags. — For 10 lbs. of goods take 
\\ Ihs. japonica; dissolve in hot water; 1^ oz. blue vitriol, 
dissolve well; put together in a tub; put the rags in and let 
them stand 15 minutes. In another tub with enough warm 
water to cover the goods, dissolve 2 oz, of bichromate of 
potash; dip the rags in and let them stand 15 minutes. 
Wash in soap suds. 

Brown with Catechu. — For five Hbs. of rags, take 1 lh. 
of catechu; 2 oz. of blue vitriol; and 2 oz. of bichromate 
of potash; boil the catechu until dissolved, then stir in the 
vitriol and dip the goods in; let them stand overnight, then 
put the goods in clear bichromate water and boil fifteen 
minutes. 



— 28 — 

Copperas. — This is only suitable for cotton, as it "eats" 
woolen goods. Take for one pound of copperas, two pail- 
fuls of rain water, or enough to cover the goods, tie the 
-copperas up in a sleazy cloth or small salt bag; boil the 
water until the copperas is all dissolved; use an iron kettle. 
If you want a bright yellowish color, your goods must be 
pure white. Have them clean and rinsed, and steep in the 
copperas water 15 or 20 minutes; then have a kettle or 
crock of hot weak lye, run off from an old leach, or made 
from boiled ashes, put the goods into this for 15 minutes, 
stirring and lifting frequently, both in the dye and the lye. 
When taken from the dye the goods will be of a greenish 
color, but after going through the lye and being hung up in 
the air and sunshine they will be a rich yellow. By repeat- 
ing the process, or steeping longer you may color a light 
brown. When partly dried rinse well and dry again. You 
can make a dark slate color by steeping copperas and 
extract of logwood together. 

Dyeing yellow. — For five pounds of goods dissolve one 
pound of sugar of lead in water enough to thoroughly 
cover the goods, and half a pound of bichromate of pot- 
ash in the same quantity of water in a separate vessel. Dip 
the goods well, and drain in each alternately, until the 
desired shade is secured and then rinse and dry. If an 
orange is desired, dip the yellow rags in strong hot lime 
water before rinsing. 

Dove and slate. — Dyes of all shades (for woolen) of 
these can be made by boiling in iron vessels a teacupful of 
black tea, a teaspoonful of copperas, and sufficient water. 
Dilute until you get the shade wanted. 

Salmon. — For each pound of goods take £ lb of annotto, 
^ lb of hard soap, rinse goods in warm water, put them 
into the mixture and boil half an hour. The shade will be 
according to the quantity of annotto. 

Black for Woolens. — For five pounds of goods take 
of blue vitriol six ounces, boil a few minutes, then dip the 



— 29 — 

goods in three-fourths of an hour, airing often; take out the 
goods, make a dye with three pounds of logwood, boil half 
an hour, dip three-fourths of an hour, airing often; and 
leave in three-fourths of an hour more. Wash in strong 
suds. This will not fade by exposure to the sun. It is the 
best receipt in use. 



CONVENIENT HOUSEHOLD ARTICLES, 



Table Extension. — It very frequently happens that 
the ordinary table used in kitchens is not large enough to 
accommodate all the persons one would like to seat at one 
time. A very good extension table can be made with little 
trouble, which can be used on the ordinary table, greatly 
enlarging its capacity as Occasion requires. To make this 
extension, a board 18 inches wide is needed. Measure the 
table to which you wish to fit it, getting the width with the 
leaves extended. Cut the board of such a length as to 
match this width. You will want two of these pieces, one 
for each end. Then mortise two holes in the end of the 
table frame, as shown in Fig. 2. Cut two pieces of wood, 



rrzr 



tzr 



Fijr. 



hard wood is best, about three feet in length, and make 
them fit snugly in the holes. Fasten one end of these to 
the lower side of the boards, taking care to have them as 
far apart as the holes are, into which they are to be slipped. 
If they do not fit exactly, they may "bind" when you want 



— 30 — 

to use the extension, causing much vexation in adjusting 
them properly. They should be made to work easily, but 
snugly, and if proper care is taken in getting them just 
where they belong on the board, there will be no trouble in 
putting the extension in place. If these pieces do not fit 
snugly the extension will not be firm. 

Extensions of this kind, added to each end of a table, 
will add at least one-third to its capacity. When not 
required they can be set aside in some convenient place. 
Often one is all that is needed. But it is as well to make 




Fig. i. 

two while you are about it. They should be well oiled. 
When in use they are covered by the table-cloth, so it 
does not matter if they do not look like the rest of the table. 
These little home-made articles do not cost much; do not 
require much skill in their construction, and are often of 
great use. I should like to encourage the boys of the family 
to undertake their manufacture. It is always well to 
encourage a boy to make himself familiar with the use ot 
the saw and planes, even if he does not intend to be a 
carpenter. Eben. E. Rexford. 

A MUSIC CABINET. 

Somewhere among the stores you can find an empty box 
about four feet long, two wide, and a little over a foot in 
depth. Fit three shelves across the upper part. These are 
for books of music, musical magazines, catalogues of 



— 31 — 

•music, etc. At the bottom fit a drawer, for old defaced 
pieces of music, which have seen their best days, but 
which are too good or too highly prized to be thrown 
away. Between the drawer and the shelves fit six upright 
pieces, making seven divisions such as you will see in desks 
and book-cases for the reception of ledgers and large books 
of that class. These are for sheet music. At the bottom 
of each division in front, are the letters, W. M. P. S. T. S. 
and O. These stand for waltz, march, polka, schottish, 
transcription, song and opera. In putting away music, each 
class can be put in its proper place, and you al ways know 
just where to find it when wanted. 




When you have the shelves, etc., in their proper places, 
stain the inside with a wash of burnt umber, which gives a 
dark brown color. The outside, and the edges of the 
shelves, the drawer and the upright pieces may be painted 
black, using the prepared paint which comes in small tin 
cans, and is put up for carriage worker's use. It is a 



32 



smooth, fine paint, which gives a good firm body when 
two or three coats have been applied. After it is thorough- 
ly dried, decorate the sides and front drawer with fine lines 
of gold, using for this purpose the liquid gilding which can 
be bought at any store where materials for fancy work are 
sold. This gilding is easily applied with a fine camel's 
hair brush. Finish with a coat of varnish, and the result 
will be a very pretty article of furniture. Add a little rail- 
ing to the top and gild it, and bric-a-brac of various sorts 
will find a place there. Casters should be attached to the 
bottom for easier movement, If desired, a curtain can be 
hung across the front. One on a small brass pole would 
look well. Such a curtain can be made of felt or other 
heavy material, with bands of velveteen or embossed plush 
at top and bottom, and it will not only add much to the ap- 
pearance, but will be useful to keep out dust. The curtain 
should only come to the top of the drawer, and should have 
a nice fringe on its lower edge. A cheaper curtain can be 
fashioned with a pole of pine, painted as the cabinet is. 

Ellen Rexford. 

WAITER OR ELEVATOR. 




CELLAR BOTTOM. 



This is a very useful article for any home, and does 
away with the necessity of carrying articles to and from the 
cellar. B is a box 2 feet high, 2 feet long, and l^wide, in- 
side measure. S S are standards 1J inches square, ex- 
tending from cellar bottom to top of box B, nailed in each 
corner of platform. K and M are connected by eight 
pieces 2\ x ^ inch, and 2 feet long. They are shown nailed 
to the platform, one on each side of the standard as guides, 
S S. The dotted lines O P are cords secured to edge of 
platform M running up to the kitchen over pulleys, thence 
in any direction to the wall over another pulley, below 
which weights are attached. This can be inclosed. 

FOLDING TABLE. 

Any one, almost, can make a folding table de- 
signed for a porch or place where it is not convenient to 
have an ordinary table. It is made by hinging the table 
with its back edge to the wall, and supporting its front 
edge upon flat legs, the lower ends of which rest against the 
junction of floor and wall, below the table, the legs be- 
ing hinged to the outer edge of the table. When not in use 
the table is folded upward against the wall, and held to its 
place by a hook. 

PORTABLE CLOSET AND BOOKCASE. 

Many persons seem to think that a room cannot be 
furnished comfortably and conveniently without a great 
deal of expense. In this they are mistaken. Expensive 
articles of furniture are not always convenient ones. The 
cut shows a sort of closet and book-case combined, which 
can be easily made, and will be found extremely useful in 
the bed room, or any other room, for that matter. 

The lower part is made out of a dry-goods box, of such, 
size and proportions as best suit the wants or taste. 



34 




Shelves are fitted across the upper part, with hooks below 
them on which things can be hung. A curtain is hung 
across the front, which slides on a pole, to which it is 
attached by rings. Curtain poles of neat design in walnut 
or brass can be purchased very cheaply, or if it is desirable 
to avoid expense, a pole can be made at home, with rings 
fashioned out of stout wire. On top of this box a narrow 
one is placed at the back, fitted with shelves for books. A 
light railing can be added to the top if desired, and articles 
of china or anything else in the ornament line can be 
placed there. If "the boys ,, have a bracket saw, they can 
cut out narrow strips of fret-work from which a pretty rail- 
ing can be made. The boxes of which this piece of furni- 
ture is made can be covered to suit the taste of the maker. 
Easter Souvenir. — The materials are empty egg-shells, 
bright-colored tissue paper, mucilage, and a lead pencil. 
Make a face on the egg-shell, drawing eyes, nose and 
mouth; then paste on a high-crowned "Martha Washing- 
ton" bonnet of paper, and finish the bottom with a full 
plaited "Martha Washington" collar of white tissue paper. 
They are quaint looking when tastefully made and delight 
the little ones. 



— 35 — 
FANCYWORKAND HOME ORNAMENTATION. 

There is no harm in spending a portion of one's time at 
fancy work, painting, art embroidery, and other ornamen- 
tal work of which we are iond. It is a relief from monotony 
and drudgery, prolongs life, adds to its enjoyment, and makes 
us better every way. The objection, as with every other 
pleasure, lies in its abuse. If we neglect our duty to 
others and to ourselves, by indulging in pleasure, it becomes 
a sin. Keep something constantly on hand, that is not 
too intricate to rest the mind, during one's tired intervals 
from heavy work. 

Directions for Stamping. — For colored material or 
dark goods, you will find the tube paints of Winsor & 
Newton (silver white or flake white) by far the best material 
in use for such purposes. Apply with a thin table knife or 
palette knife, as very little paint is required in stamping. 
Clean the pattern as soon as possible after using, by apply- 
ing gasoline with a soft cloth. It will not soften or injure 
the pattern in the least; The above will apply to velvet or 
plush, and all material in dark goods. 

Stamping Powder. — For light goods: — Equal parts of 
pulverized gum arabic, white resin, and ultramarine blue, 
well mixed. Apply with a piece of felt, or pouncet, to the 
smooth side of the pattern, remove pattern carefully, place 
a paper over the stamping, and press with a rather warm 
Iron. 

Curtains. — Beautiful curtains are made of cheese cloth 
stenciled; nun's veiling, part silk, is richer, if economy is 
not of moment, and if it is wide enough, better still; if not, 
make the seam as invisible as possible. Cheese cloth and 
Turkey red in alternate stripes, trimmed with antique lace, 
are pretty. For stenciling, use the metallic luster paints, or 
gold paint, being careful to fill all points in the pattern. If 
you cut the material a foot longer than from the top of the 
window to the floor, turn it down at the top, formingalam- 



— 36 — 

brequin. Finish the edge ot this, also the bottom, with 
gold fringe, making several rows of feather-stitching with 
gold floss above the fringe. 

Unbleached muslin curtains may be made pretty -by a 
spatter-work design with diamond dyes. Very beautiful 
vestibule curtains are made of white tarletan, cut enough 
larger than the glass to allow a hem one inch wide all 
around. Take satin finished cretonne flowers, leaves and 
butterflies, if possible; cut them out nicely, and with a thin 
starch paste put them on in sprays, wreaths, or promiscu- 
ously, as preferred; press from the wrong side with a warm 
iron to dry. They have the effect of being painted as the 
light shines through them. They will be pretty a long 
time. 

Wall Paper. — It is not impossible to have artistic 
walls at a trifling expense. A really charming wall paper 
can be made by tacking up the thick, dull-colored papers 
that are used under the carpets. These papers have small 
patterns pressed into them, and when on the wall give the 
effect of embossed plaster, and the subdued coloring is in 
excellent taste for almost any sort of room. A handsome 
way to make a frieze, is to place a strip of common mold- 
ing around the wall, as many inches from the ceiling as de- 
sired, then place another strip on the ceiling as many 
inches as desired from the wall, and then take the corru- 
gated card-boards that come as wrappers to wine bottles, 
and fit them into place between the moldings. This forms 
an arched frieze, hides the angle of wall and ceiling, and 
makes a fine effect. This was first seen in the studio of a 
New York artist. 

Arranging Worn Carpets. — Along the middle breadths 
where busy feet most often pass, a thin place is coming in 
the carpet. The threads are beginning to show long, and 
foretell the time when an ungainly hole will come into 
prominence, and a patch will be needed. Perhaps by the 
doorway the frayed and worn look suggests the need of car- 



— 37 — 

pet darning. When the carpet is taken up, mend all such 
places, then rip the middle seam and bring the outer 
breadths together. The changed appearance will repay- 
all trouble, for the carpet will seem to have renewed its 
youth, while all mended portions will come at the sides or 
in obscure corners, under the friendly shelter of a table, 
lounge or some other piece of furniture. 

Changing Draperies. — At the time of fall cleaning it 
is a good plan to dispense with all light-colored or wash- 
able articles, as curtains, chair and cushion covers, tidies, 
etc., and as far as possible substitute dark worsted or woolen 
ones. It not only saves the need of great care in keeping these 
things clean, but the effect is much cosier, warmer and 
richer. It is pleasant to lay away the clean light curtains, 
etc., knowing that with their aid the rooms will be made 
attractive and fresh in the spring. 

Minor Hints. — If you have a shabby waste basket 
(provided it is not much broken), cover it with mucilage, 
and while still damp strew it with rice, barley or sago. 
When thoroughly dried, either bronze or gild it. Line it 
with bright-colored cambric to match other decorations, 
and put a ribbon bow where there happens to be a break. 
Wall pockets, old picture frames, small brackets, etc., can 
all be treated similarly, only do not have too many objects 
of the same style in one room. If your feather duster is 
old and no longer fit to leave in sight,take an old straw hat or 
bonnet, no matter of what color, and rip it up. Sew the 
braids together funnel-shape, long and large enough for a 
duster holder. Bind the top and bottom with bright braid, 
and have a bow and loop to hang it by. 

A Barrel Wall Pocket. — Take a small barrel or keg 
hoop, and cover it with burlaps or coffee sacking, and gild 
or bronze it. Make a crescent to fit it, of pasteboard, and 
cover it with some of the pretty scraps of silk, satin or 
plush you have saved up. You can make two small pieces 
answer that. Make the crescent-shaped piece slightly 



— 38 — 

larger than the back, so that when you put them together 
the front will droop forward a little so as to allow room to 
slip newspapers, or what you will, into the pocket. 

Drapery. — If you wish to have your rooms look pretty 
and stylish with little expense, use baize in whatever color 
you desire, for hangings in a doorway. You can have poles 
of pine or any cheap wood, -stained or oiled. The pins and 
rings are cheap and pretty, and it is but little trouble to 
fasten the curtains to them. Baize costs a little more than 
cotton flannel, but keeps its color better, and can be 
washed and utilized for other purposes when not needed for 
curtains. 

Lamp Shade. — A very handsome lamp shade can easily 
be made by <=ewing alternate stripes ot lace insertion and 
bright-colored s° tin ribbon together till you have a piece 
the width ot the distance round base of porcelain shade 
(the strips running downward). Finish at top by shirring 
this on to " wue ring lo fit, and at bottom by sewing on 
tassels or balls to the end of each strip, first lolding each 
strip into a poipt. 

Ornamental Scrap Bag. — Take a strip of linen or 
woolen stuff, the size of an oidinary chair back; embroider 
it at one end or fringe it, turn over the other end and work 
it to match, so that two rows of work and fringe appear, 
one above the other. Sew a piece of muslin at the 
back to make the bag, and some rings at the top through 
which to run a cord; hang it on the wall of the sewing room 
for scraps. In lieu of the embroidery, flowers may be cut 
from a piece of cretonne and appliqued on with embroidery 
silk or wewsted, in the usual manner; or simply pasted on 
and pressed with a warm iron, laying a cloth between the 
iron and the work when pressing it. I made mantel and 
table lambrequins in this manner for two chambers. In 
one room they were of heavy crash, in the other of thick 
white grain bags. The material was fringed three inches 
in depth the edges button-holed with light blue zephyr of 



— 39 — 

one, the other scarlet zephyr, three rows of drawn work 
above, about one -third of an inch in depth, and the same 
distance apart, the open work lapped with the worsted, a 
lovely vine of roses, lilies and morning glories above the 
work. Allowance must be made for these zephyrs in the 
drawn work. Olive Chesney. 

A Night Dress Case in the shape of a large envelope, 
of white cloth, ruffled and tied with bright ribbon, is a very 
handy adjunct to the guest chamber, to keep a night dress 
in. 

Lambrequin. — A handsome lambrequin was made of 
red felt, one-fourth of a yard deep. It had a band of 
narrow black velvet at the top to hide the tacks which held 
it in place. The design, worked the whole length of the 
lambrequin, is a grape-vine and fruit in outline. The 
grapes are done in purple silk, the tendrils and leaves in 
olive green, and the stems in brown. The design was taken 
from the end of a towel. Fasten the towel, or whatever 
the design is on, to a board or table. Over this pin a piece 
of white tissue paper, then with a pencil trace the outlines. 
After this is complete, baste the tissue to some foolscap 
paper and follow the outline by running through the sewing 
machine with an empty needle. You can use this with 
stamping powder, just as you would any pattern for which 
you might pay twenty cents. By folding the foolscap you 
can have several patterns of the same. 

Table Scarf. — Use dark cardinal plush or felt; make 
it the length and width that is becoming to your center 
table, and in one end of scarf work a design of cat-tails, 
water-lilies, leaves and buds; opposite these a large stork 
that appears to be wading in water to reach a butterfly 
about to settle on a lily. On the other end work a cluster 
of golden rod, cockscomb and sun flower. Work the 
flowers in plush stitch, the leaves in Kensington. If you use 
perforated patterns you will find it easier to mark off by 
fastening pattern on scarf and sew through it with the sew- 



— 40 — 

ing machine. Use silk thread. Tear off pattern and it will 
be ready to work. This will stand more handling than 
when stamped with powder. Finish by adding fringe to the 
ends, about seven inches deep, of a lighter shade than the 
cloth. 

Laundry Bag. — It is made ofecru linen or drilling, and 
the size in accordance with its requirements; made in form 
like a bag, with one side longer than the other, to form a 
folding lap to come over the top, and fasten to the front 
side, pocket-book style. Design, embroidered in outline 
upon it, is a woman's basket of clothes hanging on line to 
dry. Motto: "Oh my! Will these clothes never dry?'* 
Another: Two little girls and a basket of clothes. Motto: 
"We don't mind wash day, do we?" 

Case for Umbrella. — Made of same material as laun- 
dry bags, cut tapering, length Irom 30 to 36 inches, width 
five or six inches at the top, tapering to three or four at the 
bottom, and with a gusset on each side, the front piece 
about one inch narrower than the back, and several inches 
shorter, (it is hung up by the back). Appropriate designs 
are as follow: Leafless vine with miniature umbrellas 
hanging to branches. Motto: "Every cloud has a silver 
lining.'' Another has the point of a compass. Motto: 
"Weather-wise.'' These cases are trimmed with a red 
braid and are both useful and pretty. They would make 
nice presents for gentlemen. 

Cheap Mirror Frame. — Some of the young girls may 
want to know how to make an inexpensive, handsome 
mirror. Get a good glass, size you wish, beveled, if you 
can afford it. They are much cheaper if bought unframed. 
Have your carpenter make for it a plain pine wood frame, 
quite broad; cover this with plush, any color, on which 
you have embroidered a spray of woodbine, clematis, or 
some other graceful flower or vine, or embroider this ap- 
propriate motto in quaint old Roman letters, in gold or 
flosses: 



— 41 — 

"Be to my virtues ever kind. 
Be to my faults a little blind." 

Or you can quote the phrase from Richard III : 
"That I may see my shadow as I pass." 

A bow of satin ribbon attached to one corner will add 
much to its beauty. 

Etching on Lichen. — Those who are interested in 
drawing or etching, will find the common lichen a most 
beautiful thing tr*- work upon, and it makes a handsome 
present. You can find them in the woods, on old logs or 
stumps, where the land is rich and moist. The way to 
work them is to take a large, pointed needle, or a small 
hand-saw file is better; sharpen the small round end; this 
is easier held in hand than the needle. Get the lichens 
that have a white surface on the under side, and use needle 
or file same as pencil, working the object in surface. The 
deeper you work the darker shade you will have. Land- 
scapes are very nice when properly worked. These make 
a fine ornament for a corner bracket or mantel; also a 
curiosity for our city cousins when they visit us. It re- 
quires patience, as well as any other work of this nature. 



MINOR HINTS. 

Toilet bottles make a very pretty present. Take a 
■square bottle and cover it with satin; make it so as to come 
some distance below the bottom, and gather. Fringe, or 
trim around the top with lace and ornament the front with 
painting or embroidery. 

A work box is both useful and ornamental. Procure 
a large wicker baskc , such as grocers keep oranges in. 
Gild it with gold pair... Run a crimson ribbon through 
the open spaces at the top and bottom Or better still, 



— 42 — 

make a band of plush of some pretty color, and embroider,, 
in ribbon work, some daisies. Be sure to get a tall 
basket. 

A pretty "handy board" is made of a small rolling pin 
Gild the handles, cover the center with plush or velvet, 
fasten a row of hooks on one side of the roller, which is to 
be hung up by satin ribbon fastened to the handles. Hang 
on the hook all such losable articles as button-hooks, keys, 
etc. 

A pretty whisk-broom holder is made of a piece of paste- 
board, palette shaped. Cover with garnet or blue plush, then 
sew across the centre a piece of satin ribbon to match, just 
loose enough to allow the broom to pass through without 
falling out. 

Pretty napkin holders are made of clothes-pins painted 
snow white. Paint on them a small design of flowers and 
tie a ribbon around at top. 

A pair of spectacle wipers is very handy. Cut two 
pieces of chamois leather any shape you wish (egg-shape is 
pretty), cover one side with bright leather, bind with nar- 
row ribbon, and attach the two pieces with a bow. 

For your school children, make each a "pen wiper," 
or little book of chamois, or some bright leather, tied with 
ribbon, with the name on back in bright ink, or a dainty 
flower drawn or painted. Bits of flannel or cloth cut in 
circles and folded twice and set on a round base with a 
covered button to put on the center. 

Match scratches are made of pieces of "backing 
board" in circles, ovals, or panel-shape. If you are handy 
with pen or brush, decorate one side and paste sand paper 
on the other, and suspend with ribbon. Or if you can not 
do that, cover one side with cloth, felt, velvet or satin, and 
put on it a pretty picture. By padding the board with 
cotton before putting on the outside you get a better effecU 
These make pretty ornaments without the sand paper. 



— 43 — 

A rich and handsome table cover may be made of aida 
canvas, square or in scarf style, with a wine-colored plush 
square in the center, fastened on with feather stitching in 
yellow silk. The edge of canvas should be raveled out, and 
knotted into fringe, about three inches from which feather- 
stitch a band of plush, and above this may be a design 
worked in crewels, if it is a scarf, or if square, in each 
corner. 

Crazy silk patchwork bands are pretty for decorating 
table covers, curtains and chair covers. The pieces must 
be small and of elegant silk, satin and velvet. 

A simple and pretty table cover for a bed-room lamp- 
stand may be made of pale blue canton flannel trimmed with 
antique lace, or with black velvet ribbon feather- stitched 
on with yellow floss, and the edge finished with a fringe of 
blue worsted tied in. One similar to this, of cardinal, all- 
wool, canvas or basket flannel, is pretty for the sitting 
room. 

Neat and pretty bureau or wash-stand covers are made 
of scrim or dotted muslin in scarf shape, trimmed with 
deep lace, and lined with pink or blue silesia. 



FANCY KNIT ARTICLES. 

Infant's Knitted Shirt. — Use white saxony, and two- 
medium sized knitting needles. The shirt is knit from the 
bottom up. Cast on ninety-seven stitches, and knit across 
plain. 1. Knit three, thread over, knit one, thread over, 
knit three, slip one, knit two together, knit one, draw the 
one slipped over the other two; repeat until all the stitches 
are off the needle. 2. Seam across. 3. Same as first, 
only knitting two together at the beginning and end. 4, 
Seam across. 5. Like first, only knitting two together at 



— 44 — 

beginning and end. 6. Seam across. 7. Like first, only 
knitting two together at beginning and end. 8. Knit 
across plain. 9. Seam across. 10. Knit across. Knit the 
above five times. Now, knit two, seam two, knit two, seam two 
across, adding a stitch at the end to make an even number. 
Next row, knit two, and seam two across; repeat this until five 
and one-fourth inches in length. Then knit two together, 
thread over, knit two together, thread over, etc. Next knit 
across plain, and then bind off. This is one side. Knit 
the other like it. Sleeve. — Cast on seventy-five stitches. 
Knit two rows or points like the first part of the pattern. 
Then knit two and seam two each time across, taking care 
to put the saxony over the needle before the first stitch 
each time, to form the gore. Knit and seam the gore the 
same as the other part of the sleeve. Knit and seam an 
inch, and then divide the sleeve in three equal parts. Knit 
and seam the two sides as before, but the middle, knit two 
together, thread over, etc., for the holes. Then knit plain 
across, and bind off. Sew the parts together with saxony. 
In joining the sleeve and body, care should be taken to 
have the last hole in the sleeve opposite the last in the body, 
so the ribbon will run through easily. 

Ladies' Knit Skirt. — Get two ounces of scarlet Ger- 
mantown wool, and five or six, as the length requires, of 
any color you wish. First, put the wool in a basin and 
pour boiling water over it, let stand until cool, then wring 
out and hang to dry; this shrinks the wool and you will 
find it very soft. Use needles, a trifle smaller than an or- 
dinary pen-holder. Knit your skirt in two breadths. 
Front breadth set up one hundred and fifty stitches. 1. 
Knit plain across (red worsted). 2. Seam two,* knit three 
plain, thread over, knit one, thread over, knit one, knit two 
plain, then seam three together; repeat from * until last two 
stitches on needle, seam those. 3. Seam (this means 
purl). 4. Same as second row, which is fancy row. This 
and the seaming back forms your pattern until you have it 



— 45 — 

deep enough to please. Be sure, at commencement of fancy 
row to always seam two together, then go from * to *. This 
makes your border. Now put on your other color, and 
knit eight plain, eight seam, and so on, making a plaid; do 
six rows of blocks (eight rows making the square), then 
change, and seam three and knit three until half a finger 
from the top: this knit plain. In narrowing, commence 
after you finish plaid, and narrow every other row, begin 
ning and end of needle, when the plain part is reached. 
Also narrow in the front by dividing the stitches that are on 
the needle in three parts, and narrow in two places in the 
middle part, making as it were, two gores in front. When 
you have your length, bind off. Make shorter than you 
wish, as in wearing the skirt will grow longer. For the 
back breadth, put on one hundred and fifty stitches. Knit 
as above, only no narrowing; knit to match length of front; 
then sew them neatly together, put on a small yoke or band 
to suit your waist, and you will have a pretty and durable 
skirt. 

Knit Money Purses. — Cast on 100 stitches. Needles, 
No. 20. Slip one, knit one, pass the slipped edge over it, 
bring the silk forward, knit one, bring silk forward, purl one; 
repeat to the end of the row. Every succeeding row is the 
same. Three skeins of coarse netting silk are required. It 
forms a gentleman's strong purse. 

Herring-Bone Stitch Purse. — Cast on any number of 
stitches that can be divided by four. Needles, No. 20. 
About eighty stitches will be required. 

1. Pass the silk over, slip one, knit one, pass the 
slipped stitch over it, knit one, bring the silk forward, purl 
one; repeat to the end of the row. Every row is the same. 
Three skeins of second sized silk will be required. 

Purse with Beads. — Second sized purse twist, and' 
needles No. 20 are required. Cast on sixty stitches in net- 
ting silk. 1. Knit one, bring the silk forward, knit two to- 
gether, bring silk forward, pass on a bead, placing in be- 



— 46 — 

hind the needle, knit two together; repeat to the end of the 
row, placing a bead every alternate pattern. 2. Same as 
first row without beads. 3. Knit one, bring silk forward, 
pass on a bead, knit two together, bring silk forward, knit 
two together; repeat. 4. Same as first row without beads. 
Commence again at first row. 

Clover-Leaf Spread or Tidy. — 1. Cast on one 
stitch. 2. Thread over, knit one. 3. Thread over, knit 
two. 4. Thread over, knit one, thread over, knit one, 
thread over, knit the rest. 5. Thread over, knit one, purl 
three, knit the rest. 6. Thread over, knit three, thread 
over, knit one, thread over, knit the rest. 7. Thread 
over, knit two, purl five, knit the rest. 8. Thread over, 
knit five, thread over, knit one, thread over, knit the rest. 
9. Thread over, knit three, purl seven, knit the rest. 10. 
Thread over, knit seven, thread over, knit one, thread over, 
knit the rest. 11. Thread over, knit four, purl nine, knit 
the rest. 12. Thread over, knit nine, thread over, knit 
one, thread over, knit the rest. 13. Thread over, knit 
five, purl eleven, knit the rest. 14. Thread over, knit 
eleven, thread over, knit one, thread over, knit the rest. 
15. Thread over, knit six, purl thirteen, knit the rest. 16. 
Thread over, knit thirteen, thread over, knit one, thread 
over, knit the rest. 17. Thread over, knit seven, purl 
fifteen, knit the rest. 18. Thread over, knit eight, slip and 
find, knit eleven, narrow, knit the rest. 19. Thread over, 
knit eight, purl thirteen, knit the rest. 20. Thread over, 
knit nine, slip and bind, knit nine, narrow, knit the rest. 
21. Thread over, knit nine, purl eleven, knit the rest. 22. 
Thread over, knit ten, slip and bind, knit seven, narrow, 
knit the rest. 23. Thread over, knit ten, purl nine, knit 
the rest. 24. Thread over, knit eleven, slip and bind, 
knit five, narrow, knit the rest. 25. Thread over, knit 
eleven, purl seven, knit the rest. 26. Thread over, knit 
twelve, slip and bind, knit three, narrow, knit the rest. 27. 
Thread over, knit twelve, purl five, knit the rest. 28. 



— 47 — 

Thread over, knit thirteen, slip and bind, knit one, 
narrow, knit the rest. 29. Thread over, knit thirteen, purl 
three, knit the rest. 30. Thread over, knit fourteen, slip 
and bind, knit the rest. 31. Thread over, knit fourteen, 
purl two, knit the rest. 32. Thread over, knit fifteen, slip 
a.nd bind, knit the rest. 33. Thread over, knit across 
plain. 34. Thread over, knit plain. 35, 36 and 37 same 
as 34. 38. Thread over, knit plain. 39. Purl across. 40. Nar- 
row, thread over, narrow, thread over, narrow, so continue 
across. 41. Narrow, purl across. 42 and 43. Narrow, 
knit plain. 44. Narrow, purl across. 45 and 46. Nar- 
row, knit plain. 47. Narrow, purl across. 48. Narrow, 
thread over, narrow, thread over, so continue across. 49. 
Narrow, purl across. 50 and 51. Narrow, knit plain. 52. 
Narrow, purl across. 53 and 54. Narrow, knit plain. 55. 
Narrow, purl across. 56. Narrow, thread over, narrow, 
thread over, continue so across. 57. Narrow, purl across- 
58 and 59. Narrow, knit plain. 60. Narrow, purl across. 
61 and 62. Narrow, knit plain. 63. Narrow, purl across. 
64. Narrow, thread over, thread over, thread over, so con- 
tinue across. 65. Narrow, purl across. 66 and 67. 
Narrow, knit plain. 68. Narrow, purl across. 69 and 70. 
Narrow, knit plain. 71. Narrow, purl across. 72. Nar- 
row, thread over, narrow, thread over, narrow, thread over, 
until only one stitch remains. When you have knit four 
squares, sew together, with the four leaves in the center. 
This is the handsomest pattern ever published. 



KITCHEN NOTES. 

In preparing vegetables for the table, it saves time to 
pare them into the bucket reserved for tne refuse for the 
cows and pigs. Trimmings that are not fit for food or 
fertilizers, should be put immediately into the fire. If possi- 
ble, clear up as you work; it is both economy of time and 



— 48 — 

strength. It is much easier to wash out the vesseis in 
which food is cooked, as soon as their contents are re- 
moved. If this is not feasible, fill them with cold water, to 
soak, as heat increases tbe difficulty of cleaning them. 
Wiping with soft paper will in a great measure absorb 
grease from pans and dishes, where water ?s scarce, as is 
sometimes the case. A tablespoonful of ammonia or of wash, 
ing soda added to the water, lightens the labor by half. 
Kitchen or mineral soap, or pumice stone, is also invalua- 
ble. It is excellent for removing stains from white handled 
knives, and the discolorations of crockery or baking dishes. 
Tins may be kept in fine order if always washed in clear 
hot suds and rubbed with this soap. An easy method of 
removing soot from vessels used over a wood or kerosene 
fire is to use this soap and a stiff brush. It is a good plan 
to soak granite ware for half an hour in boiling soda water, 
then rub with stiff brush or wire dish cloth. This will re- 
move stains. The musty taste of an old coffee-pot will be 
lost if filled with water and a live coal is dropped into it. 
A new tin coffee pot should not be washed on the inside 
with soap; rinse thoroughly with cold water, and set on the 
back of stove to dry. When dry, rub with a clean dry 
cloth. Always leave it open. 

Knives and forks with ivory, bone or wooden handles, 
should not be put in hot water. In cleaning silver, kerosene 
may be used to advantage. Salt will remove the stain 
caused by egg upon silver; it must be applied dry. 

To prepare butter bowls or ladles for immediate use, 
wet them in warm water, then rub them thoroughly with 
fine salt. Always wash butter bowls in weak brine, using it 
hot; never wash in soap suds. If a strip of iron is put un, 
der a crock or pan when it is put on the stove, it will keep 
the contents from burning down, with far less stirring, es- 
pecially when making apple, pear or peach butter, or in 
heating milk. An old case knife blade is good; any flat 
and long piece of iron will answer. 



— 49 — 

Dinners. — The appointments of a table help a poor 
dinner, and make up a splendid one. A clean tablecloth, 
fine napkins, clear glass, bright silver and china, and pretty 
salt-cellars at each plate, neat little dishes for pickles, etc. 
can all be made useful on any simple country table. The 
bunch of flowers in the middle of the table, and the fruit 
carefully set forth with green leaves, also add much. The 
soup always begins the dinner. Never insult a guest with 
greasy soup. Let the stock be made the day before, and 
the vegetables or seasoning put in on the day of serving. 
A white soup is delicious in summer. Every lady should 
learn how to make an asparagus or pea soup, and to add 
sorrel to her clear or her creamy soup, to give a spring like 
effect to this beginning of her dinner. Following the soup 
comes the fish. In country neighborhoods this is some- 
times difficult to get, and a lady can make very good 
croquettes from canned lobsters. However, the many ways 
of transporting fish make it possible to give a fish dinner 
anywhere. After the fish the first entree is in order. This 
can be of chicken croquettes, sweet breads with green peas, 
of simply a vegetable. After this comes the roast, and with 
this should be passed one or two vegetables. Do not have 
too many vegetables. There should be choice for a variety 
of tastes, but no more. After the roast comes another en- 
tree, perhaps birds on toast or asparagus served alone, or 
cauliflower with parmesan cheese or macaroni. Then 
olives are handed around and cheese, and then the salad. 

It must be a part of evtry lady's education to know 
how to dress a salad. Fresh lettuce and chiccory are good 
foundations for salad, also the cold potatoes and vegetables 
left from yesterday's dinner. Tomatoes make an admira- 
ble sa ad, and should be skinned whole, by dropping into 
hot water, and taking out to cool slowly, by dropping into 
very cold water. After making the mayonnaise, put both 
salad and dressing into some cold place, until just before 
serving, for they should be cold. Some ladies serve a cold 



— 50 — 

fowl with mayonnaise dressing in summer. A bit of cold roast 
ham is a delicious accompaniment to the salad. In speak- 
ing of entrees it is proper to state that oysters are allowed to 
appear at all stages of a dinner. They are neither fish, 
flesh nor fowl. They may be served as soup, precede the 
soup on the half shell, or come in as an e?itree at any stage 
of the dinner, fried or scalloped. They are always welcome 
with the salad, fried. Ladies living far from market should 
provide themselves with smoked tongues, canned meats and 
plenty of well-cured hams. A smoked tongue, boiled and 
served hot with a white sauce, cut lengthwise in- 
stead of crosswise, is one of the most delicate dishes. With 
fresh vegetables this makes an admirable summer dinner 
when guests are not too hungry. 

Attention to the little elegancies of the table goes far 
toward making up for lack of elaborate cooking. Nothing 
is more unpleasant than to sit down on a hot summer day 
to a greasy piece of roast beef, with no relief of fruit, 
flowers, salads or entrees. Some ladies can get nothing else 
from market. If she can get a knuckle of veal, a woman 
can make her soup the day before, flavoring it with celery 
seed. On the day for using she puts beaten eggs and a 
little cream into the soup just before dinner. She makes 
from her canned stores a dish of salmon or lobster cro- 
quettes. Then she boils a large quantity of potatoes, and 
of some she makes a salad, seasoning with a little onion, 
and garnishing with parsley. The roast beef can be carved 
in the kitchen and sent in on hot plates. Then the waiter 
should be neat-handed, "shod in silence," and an adept in 
handling things. The waiter should be trained every day 
to serve the dinner gracefully, or she cannot do it when 
company comes. Never urge guests to eat more than they 
want. No one should ask to be helped twice to soup. It 
is, however, proper at a country or informal dinner for a 
person to ask for another slice of the roast if the dinner is 
not profuse m entrees, and the hostess may tell her guest 



— 51 — 

this fact if she sees that he hesitates. Young men are 
generally hungry, and, unless she has an elaborate dinner, 
she should ask her young friend if he will not be helped 
again to the roast. At dessert, hot puddings and pies should 
be passed before the rices and jellies. A very elegant din- 
ner demands a cabinet pudding with sauce; then come the 
ices, charlotte russe, and jellies. But the hostess of to-day 
is very apt to offer only a fruit ice, or a form of chocolate 
or vanilla cream, which is about all one can enjoy after a 
dinner of four courses. The proper service with this is a 
basket of cake, strawberries in their season, or other 
berries. Unless you have fresh cream to offer with berries, 
this is a favorite way of serving them. Have plenty of 
clean plates and place one before each guest as his plate is 
removed. There it no surer sign of an ill-trained waiter 
than leaving a guest without a plate before him. 

Black coffee, clear and strong, served in little cups, and 
with small teaspoons, should be served after dinner, and 
with it small lumps of sugar and cream also for those who 
like it. Filling glass bottles with ice water saves the spill- 
ing of water from a pitcher, and is a great saving of 
trouble. All Americans like ice water at every stage of the 
dinner. These glass bottles are called carafes, and one 
should be placed with the glass at every plate. A little at- 
tention to the proper garnishings of plain dishes, the study 
of salads and entrees, which can be easily learned, will soon 
make a woman independent of her surroundings. While 
all other meals may be treated with a certain sort of liberty, 
dinner, even with your own family, should be a well-regu- 
lated meal, and served with precision. 

Silver needs care, as nothing adds to a table more than 
a fine show of silver, well kept, but if chased or engraved 
it must be carefully brushed when cleaned. Avoid cheap 
flashy ware. Nothing detracts more from the fine appear- 
ance of a table than cheap single or double plate which is 
flaked or worn off in places. In selecting silver, if you 



— 52 — 

cannot afford solid, get the quadruple plate which is war- 
ranted. That manufactured by E. G. Webster & Bros.;: 
and Wm. Rogers & Son, is said by all to be much the best, 
either firm being reliable. 

Dip for Cleaning. — In 3 gallons of soft water dissolve 
1 pound of cyanide of potassium, chemically pure. This 
should be kept in a covered earthen or stone jar properly 
labeled, as it is a deadly poison. Simply rinse the articles 
to be cleansed in this solution. (Do not leave them in it, 
as the cyanide acts on the silver.) Then thoroughly wash 
them in clean water and dry with soft cloths. Cyanide, 
chemically pure, costs one dollar per pound. If it cannot 
be obtained at home, you can get it at any silver ware 
manufactory. 

Soups and Broths. — Care is required in seasoning 
soups, and indeed all dishes, for upon it depends largely 
the favor which it meets. If too faint, it has a flat 
unpalatable taste, but this is the lesser fault as one may add 
condiments until the palate is suited, but over-seasoning is 
worse. Where there is an excess of pepper it may be miti- 
gated by adding a little warm milk, and too much salt may 
be obviated by adding a teaspoonful of sugar and a table- 
spoonful of vinegar to each quart. Soup should be eaten 
from the side of the spoon. Never put the point of any 
spoon into your mouth. It is not etiquette now to crumb 
bread or crackers into your soup. Take the slice into your 
hand and bite from it. 

Delicious clam soup is made by putting thirty hard 
clams into a pot containing two quarts of water, and boil- 
ing gently for two hours. Remove the clams, chop them 
fine, add a little mace, and twelve peppercorns; return to 
the pot and boil another hour. To two tablespoonfuls of 
flour,. add a small tablespoonful of butter; mix perfectly 
smooth; have ready one pint of boiling milk, into which 
stir the mixture until smooth, which is easily done if the 
milk is added gradually. When the clams are sufficiently 



— 53 — 

cooked, strain the soup into the tureen, and stir in the hot 
thickened milk. Olive Chesney. 

"Topsy's" Beef Soup. — Boil the beef tender; then 
take out into a baking pan with a little broth, and put into 
the oven; covered; then chop fine a pint of cabbage, three 
large potatoes, and two onions; put these in the broth to 
cook while you set the table, then add three tablespoonfuls 
of cold rice, and last of all one cupful of flour, into which 
break an egg and rub together fine; when this is stirred in, 
if it is too thick, add a little water; salt and pepper to 
taste. When it has boiled well, it is ready for the table. 

Noodle Soup. — Boil beef or chicken with plenty of 
water; take one egg to a person, mix in flour as long as 
you can. It should be so stiff that it will be difficult to 
roll out. Then roll out; leave on a moulding board or 
table to dry. Keep turning the cakes as they will dry 
faster. When dry roll and cut in threads as fine as possi- 
ble. Five minutes before dinner put the noodles into soup 
stock; let it boil about three minutes; add parsley, salt and 
pepper to taste. 

"Pepper Pot." — Put into soup stock about one quart of 
raw sliced potatoes and make a dough as for noodles, only 
taking two eggs and a little water. When dry cut in half inch 
squares or smaller. When the potatoes are done put these 
in and let it come to a boil. Add finely cut parsley, it 
possible to obtain it, to all soups. 

Another. — Take two eggs, rub flour into them until you 
have fine rubs; boil a few minutes and it is ready to serve. 

Rice Soup. — About one teacupful of rice boiled in soup 
stock is all that is used for rice soup. 

Vegetable Soup. — Time, 9 hours. — Take 5 lbs. of shin 
of beef, 1 quart of water to each pound of meat, 1 head of 
celery, 1 onion, 4 small or 3 large carrots, 2 turnips, a bunch 
of sweet herbs, pepper and salt. Cut the meat from the 
bone; put the bone into a stew pan with water, let it boil 
slowly 4 hours; then strain into a large basin; when cold, 



— 54 — 

remove the cake of fat; cut the meat into small pieces, put 
them into a stew pan with the strained gravy, the herbs tied 
together, celery, onion, carrots and turnips; let all simmer 
slowly for five hours; season with pepper and salt to taste. 
When done, take out herbs and serve. 

Bean Soup. — Soak one quart of white beans over night; 
in the morning pour off the water; add fresh, and set over 
the fire until the skins will slip off easily; throw them into 
cold water; rub well, and the skins will rise to the top 
whence they can be removed. Boil the beans until perfect- 
ly soft, allowing 2 quarts of water to 1 quart of beans; 
mash the beans, add flour and butter rubbed together, also 
salt and pepper. Cut bread into small pieces, toast and 
drop on the soup when you serve it. 

Tomato Soup. — One quart of canned tomatoes must 
be strained through a sieve to remove seeds. Have 1 quart 
of sweet milk in a separate dish, and add 1 tablespoonfull 
of sugar, \ teaspoonful of salt, 1 tablespoonful of butter. 
Let each come nearly to a boil; just before mixing stir a 
small pinch of soda into the tomatoes, pour the milk very 
slowly into the tomatoes, stirring constantly. Serve im- 
mediately, with crackers or toasted bread. 

Milk Soup. — Peel and cut into quarters, 4 large pota- 
toes, slice 1 onion, put them into 2 quarts of boiling water 
with 2 oz. of butter. Salt and pepper to taste. Boil till 
done to a mash. Strain through a colander, rub the vege- 
tables through with a spoon, return the pulp and soup to 
the sauce-pan, add 1 pint of milk, when it boils sprinkle in 
by degrees 3 tablespoonfuls of crushed tapioca, stirring 
well all the time. Boil 15 minutes, keeping it well stirred; 
serve very hot. 

Potato Soup. — Boil 6 or 8 good sized potatoes m 
about 2 quarts of water, slice up 4 or more onions if you 
like them, put in a lump of butter the size of egg, season to 
taste with pepper and salt. When the potatoes and onions 
have cooked five minutes, add a pint of sweet milk; and a 



— 00 — 

few bread crumbs or crackers; serve hot. 

Oyster Stew. — Put 1 quart of oysters, and \ pint of 
water into a kettle; let it boil till the oysters are done, 
which will be in about five minutes. Then strain, putting 
the oysters in a soup tureen, and the liquor back into the 
kettle; add to it 1 pint of milk; heat boiling hot, season 
with pepper and salt. Add to the oysters a piece of butter 
the size of an egg, lastly pour the hot liquor over the 
oysters. 

Stewed Lobster. — Cut the lobster in pieces about an 
inch square. Place them in a stew pan and over them pour 
a cupful of water; put in butter the size of an egg, pepper 
and salt to taste. Mix also with it the green dressing of 
the lobster, and stir it 10 minutes over the fire. Just before 
taking off add two wineglasses of port or sherry. Let it 
scald but not boil. 

Broiled Fish. — Clean, wash and wipe dry. Split so 
that when laid flat the backbone will be in the middle. 
Sprinkle with salt and lay inside down upon a buttered 
gridiron over a clear fire until it is nicely colored, then 
turn. When done, put upon a hot dish, butter plentifully 
and add pepper. Put a hot cover over it and send to the 
table. 

Boiled Fish. — Put plenty of water into the pot. Add 
■J cupful of vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 onion, 1 dozen 
peppercorns, and 1 blade of mace. Sew up the fish m a 
piece of clean net or muslin, fitted to shape. Heat slowly 
tor the first half hour, then boil 8 minutes at least to each 
pound, quite fast. Unwrap, and pour over .t a cupful of 
drawn butter, with a little of the liquor which the fisn was 
boiled in, with the juice of half a lemon stirred into it. 

Baked Fish. — A fish weighing 4 to 6 pounds is of good 
size to bake. It should be cooked whole to look wen. 
Make a dressing of bread crumbs, butter, salt, and a lutie 
salt pork chopped fine; mix this with one egg. Fill the 
body, sew it up, lay into a large dripper, put across u some 



— 56 — 

strips of salt pork for flavor, Put a pint of water and a 
little salt into the pan. Bake 1^ hours. Baste frequently. 
After taking up the fish, thicken the gravy and pour over 
it. To make a cream gravy for baked fish, have ready in a 
sauce pan 1 cupful of cream, diluted with a few spoonfuls 
of hot water; stir in carefully 2 tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter and a little chopped parsley; heat this in a vessel of 
hot water. Pour in the gravy from the dripping pan of fish. 
Boil thick. 

Fried Fish. — Clean the fish and let them lie singly in a 
dry towel: season with salt and a little pepper, roll in corn 
meal, and fry in ^ butter § lard. Have the grease very hot. 
Serve hot. 

Cod Fish Balls. — Put the fish in cold water, set on the 
back of the stove. When the water gets hot, pour off and 
pour on cold again until the fish is fresh enough. Then 
pick it it pieces. Boil some potatoes and mash them; mix 
the fish and potatoes together while the potatoes are hot, 
taking § of potatoes and J of fish. Put in plenty of butter; 
make in balls and fry in plenty of lard. Have the lard hot 
before putting the balls into it. 

Clam Chowder. — Take 25 clams, ^ it) of salt pork, 
chopped fine, 6 potatoes sliced thin, and 4 onions sliced 
thin. Put the pork into a kettle; after cooking a short time 
add the potatoes, onions, and the juice of the clams. Cook 
2^ hours, then add the clams; 15 minutes before serving 
add 2 quarts of milk. 

Scalloped Oysters. — Take 1 quart of fine oysters, 1 
coffee cupful of pounded or rolled crackers, 2 teaspoonfuls 
of butter, J cupful of rich milk or cream; pepper and salt 
to taste. Butter a baking dish and cover the bottom pretty 
thickly with rolled crackers; wet with oyster liquor and a 
few spoonfuls of cream, next lay the oysters 1 deep closely 
over these. Sprinkle with pepper and salt and small bits of 
butter, then another layer of crumbs, wet as before, then a 
layer of oysters, and proceed in the same way until the 



— 57 — 

dish is full, having crumbs on top with butter strewed over 
it. Set into the oven, invert a plate or tin over dish; bake 
until the juice bubbles to top; uncover, and set upon upper 
grating of oven to brown. Serve in the same dish. Pass 
sliced lemon after it. Oysters, like fish, follow immediately 
after soup and are a course by themselves. 

Fried Oysters. — Select the largest and finest oysters; 
strain and wipe them by spreading on a cloth, laying 
another over them and pressing lightly. Roll each in 
beaten egg, then in cracker crumbs which have been mixed 
with a very little pepper. Fry in a mixture of equal parts 
of butter and lard, and serve very hot. 



MEATS. 



The rules for roasting meat apply to broiling, except 
that instead of cooking in the oven it is placed on a 
gridiron over hot coals, and browned first on one side then 
on the other; removing a little away from the fire to finish 
cooking. It requires 20 minutes to broil meat an inch 
thick. Season with pepper, salt and butter after it is 
cooked. 

Boiling and Stewing. — Fresh meat for boiling should 
be put into boiling water and cooked gently about 20 
minutes for each pound of young beef. Add salt to suit 
the taste. A little vinegar in the water in which tough 
meat is boiled makes it tender. Save all the broth 
for soups, stews and gravies. Simmering and stewing 
meats means to not have them boil hard; simply bubble 
slowly, but all the time. Put salt meat over in cold water, 
which as soon as it boils, should be replaced by fresh 
water. The water should be changed until the meat is 



— 58 — 

fresh enough to be palatable. Salted and smoked meats 
require about 30 minutes of very slow boiling to each 
pound. Vegetables may be boiled with them (many so 
prefer) also herbs for seasoning. If they are to be served 
hot, set the kettle containing them where it will not boil» 
but keep hot until required. If the meat is to be served 
cold, let it cool in the liquor in which it was boiled. Very 
salt meats, or those much dried in smoking, should be 
soaked over night in cold water before boiling. 

Frying. — There are two distinct methods of frying; one is 
to have very little fat in the pan, and both pan and fat should 
be very ^ot before the meat is put into it. The chop, steak, 
etc., should be quickly put into the pan with only sufficient 
fat to keep it from sticking; brown quickly on one side, 
then on the other. The other method consists of entirely 
immersing the article to be cooked in smoking hot fat, and 
keeping up that degree of heat until the food is nicely 
browned. 

Roast Beef. — Rib roasts are best. Have the butcher 
saw off about half the bone; cut the ends of ribs clear of 
meat, fold the flap neatly around to the thick part, and se- 
cure with skewers. The trimmings are yours, as the meat 
is weighed first; take it all; it will make good material for 
soups or gravy. Put the beef into a dripping pan, pour a 
cupful of boiling water over it; rub a little salt into the fat 
parts, and roast 15 minutes for every pound. Bake faster 
as soon as the juice begins to flow. If meat has much fat 
on top, cover the fatty portion with a paste made of flour 
and water. When nearly done remove this, dredge the 
beef with flour, and baste well with gravy. Sprinkle salt 
over the top, and serve. Pour the fat from the gravy, re- 
turn it to the fire, thicken with browned gravy, season, and 
boil up once. Roast most other meats in the same way. 

A Choice Steak. — It you want a good steak that is not 
like an old rubber shoe sole, have a clear hot fire, set a 
clean empty pan on the stove, cover it up, then pound the 



— 59 — 

steak, and when the pan is very hot lay the steak in and 
cover quickly. As soon as it is crisped enough to let go its 
hold on the pan, turn over and cover quickly; turn again as. 
at first, and continue to do so about every two minutes, un- 
til it has been turned six or eight times. Have a hot but- 
tered dish ready for it, and lay it in; add a sprinkling of 
pepper, salt and sugar, and cover tightly. If you wish a 
gravy put a bit of butter into the pan; when hot rub in a 
pinch of flour, add a small teacupful of boiling water, let it 
boil a few minutes, then put it into a gravy boat, instead of 
over the steak to draw out the juice. 

Warming Beef Steak Over. — If a cold beef steak be 
covered with sweet cream, and put into a moderately heated 
oven, it will renew its departed goodness and make a very 
relishable dish for even an epicure. In fact, sweet cream 
will make a nice dressing to any kind of fresh meat, either 
warmed over or just cooked, if poured over the meat and 
put into the oven to crisp, or set on the back of the, stove 
to simmer till thoroughly heated through. If cream is used 
on newly cooked meats, it must not be added till the meat 
is done, then put it into a clean spider; lay the slices of 
meat so as to cover the bottom of the dish, then pour 
the cream over and crisp in an oven, or cover closely and 
put it to simmer slowly till ready to serve. Dot. 

Cooking a Steak. — Get a round steak an inch thick,; 
cut out the bone and with a darning needle and twine take 
a stitch or two in the cut; then sprinkle both sides with salt 
and pepper. Moisten half a common sized loaf of stale 
wheat bread with a cuplul of hot water, then chop it fine 
with about one fifth as much salt pork, season with two 
heaping teaspoonfuls ot powdered sage, and a half tea- 
spoonful each of pepper and salt, spread this dressing 
evenly over one side of the steak, using a little hot water if 
the dressing is too dry. Cut a piece of butter,half the size of 
a large egg y into bits and place it round on the dressing, 
roll the meat up, wind it with twine, and take a stitch or two 



— Co- 
in the ends of the roll, to retain the dressing. Place it in a 
dripping pan with two or three cupfuls of boiling water, 
and bake until done. Baste several times while baking. 
When done, do not remove the string, but send the roll to 
the table whole and cut slices from the ends. If you want 
it to slice cold, press under a weight until cold. When 
oysters are in season, we sometimes use a pint of oysters in 
the dressing, leaving out the pork and sage. Fanny Field. 

Smothered Beef Steak. — When one is tired of steak 
cooked in the ordinary way, it is very nice "smothered." 
Prepare a seasoning of bread crumbs mixed with a very 
little minced onion, a small piece of butter, pepper and 
salt; spread it on the steak, roll and tie with a string. 
Place in a sauce pan with a slice of salt pork and a £ pint 
of water; stew until tender, which can be ascertained by 
plunging a fork into the meat. 

Tough Steak. — When we get hold of an uncommonly 
tough steak, we do no.t spend our time pounding it, but put 
it into the chopping tray and chop it fine. Then we flour 
our hands and make the meat into flat cakes, as we would 
sausage meat. Next we fry the cakes quickly in a very hot 
skillet, buttered just enough to prevent the meat from stick- 
ing too close. Take them out on a hot platter, put a piece 
of butter on top of each cake, put a little salt, pepper, 
butter and a cupful of hot water into the skillet, let it boil 
a minute, then pour over the meat. Beef that is not steak 
can be cooked that way, and is excellent. If you have 
steak or roast beef left over, chop the pieces fine with a 
little onion, mix with J as much bread crumbs, season with 
pepper and salt; moisten with hot water (unless you happen 
to have some gravy left over) make into flat cakes, spread a 
layer of cold mashed potato on both sides, lay them on a 
well-buttered dripping pan, put a bit of butter on top of 
each cake set into the oven till hot through, and brown on 
the top. These cakes are handy ior breakfast, and they 
can be prepared the night before. 



— 61 — 

Mutton Roast. — Place in a kettle with sufficient water, 
cover closely, boil until about half done, then add salt enough 
to season, and boil till done; put into a dripping pan, 
sprinkle with black pepper, set into a hot oven, and let it 
bake to a crisped brown on top. The water in which it 
was boiled will make a nice gravy, or you can boil potatoes 
in it, and it will flavor them. 

Roast Lamb. — Lay the meat in a dripping pan, dash a 
cupful of cold water over it, and roast in the oven; time 10 
minutes to a pound. Baste often and treely, and after half 
an hour cover with a sheet of buttered paper. Five min- 
utes before taking up remove this dredge with flour; as it 
browns bring to a froth with butter. Do not send the gravy 
to the table if you use mint sauce. 

Mint Sauce. — Take 2 tablespoonfuls of green mint,, 
chopped fine, 1 tablespoonful of white sugar, and 1 cupful 
of best cider vinegar. Put the vinegar and sugar into a 
sauce boat and stir the mint in; let it stand 15 minutes be- 
fore serving. 

Souse. — Clean pig's feet and ears thoroughly, soak them 
a number of days in salt and water, boil tender and split 
them. They are good fried. To souse them cold, pour 
boiling vinegar over them seasoned with mace and 
pepper-corns. Cloves give them a dark color, but improve 
their taste. If a little salt be added, they will keep good, 
pickled for a month or two. 

Veal Cutlets. — Flatten with the side of a hatchet, 
pepper, salt, dip into raw beaten eggs, then into cracker 
crumbs, and fry in a little butter, turning as they brown. 
Dish, and pour over them some drawn butter in which has 
been cooked a large spoonful of tomato catsup. 

Curing Hams. — For curing hams there are two receipts 
which are sure to give a good result. The first requires 
for 100 lbs. of meat 7 lbs. of salt, 2^- lbs. of brown sugar or 
1 qt. of molasses, 2 oz. of saltpetre, 1 oz. of pepper and 2^ 
oz. of cloves; mix these two hours before using. The salt- 



— 62 — 

petre may easily be dissolved by pouring hot water on it in 
a small bowl, and afterward adding it to the brine. Add 
sufficient water to the above preparation to cover the meat 
which has been packed as close as possible in a cask. 

The second receipt is given in the right quantity for 75 
lbs. of meat as follows: Three cupfuls of fine salt, 1^ cup- 
fuls of brown sugar, 1 tablespoonful each of ground cloves, 
black pepper and saltpetre; mix these ingredients thoroughly 
together, and as soon as the hams are cut, give them a 
thorough rubbing all over with the mixture, taking great 
care to rub it in thoroughly about the joints. Repeat 
this process three days apart and hang up the meat to 
drain, after last application. When dry it may be smoked. 
The quantity given is enough for three applications. 

Boiled Ham. — Boil it 3 or 4 hours, according to size, 
then skin the whole and fit it for the table, then set into 
the oven for half an hour; cover thickly with Qgg yolk 
mixed thick with bread crumbs, then set it back for half an 
hour longer. Boiled ham is always improved by setting 
into the oven for nearly an hour, till much of the fat dries 
out, and it also makes it more tender. 

Remnants of Ham. — If you have boiled a rare fine 
ham, do not suffer it to return to the table meal after meal, 
until its very name becomes a jest, and the most robust 
appetite fails and turns away in disgust. Make an egg 
omelet, and sprinkle a little powdered ham over it, just be- 
fore you boil it. For this you can use the dry under parts, 
or chop up some of the softer parts in small dice and to every 
cupful add a well seasoned scrambled eggi that is, heat them 
up together. Broil some slices and send to the table dressed 
with good hot tomato catsup, that is, when ready to serve, 
have your catsup hot and pour a little on each slice as you 
take it off the coals. Mix chopped ham with rice previously 
boiled and made into croquettes; or try the Southern rule, 
spreading very thin slices with mustard, pepper,or curry pow- 
der, and frying them brown, pouring off any superfluous 



— 63 — 

grease. Add to the gravy a small pinch of sugar. Fry, bake, 
boil or roast fresh ham, or that which has been boiled, and 
add to it a flavor of any kind of meat sauce you may fancy, 
such as curry, Lee and Perrin's,Worcestershire, or any you 
may have made at home. Pour a little on the meat while 
still in the pan, and let it heat through with the meat be- 
fore coming to 'able. This is known as "barbecued" ham. 

Reliable. 

Cold Fried Ham. — When the house-keeper has scraps 
of cold fried ham left over from meals, a good way to use 
them up is to chop them fine as for hash, and beat up one 
or two eggs, stir in the meat and fry them like scrambled 
eggs. They are good when one wishes a warm dish for tea. 

Dried Beef. — Housekeepers who live where fresh meat 
can only be had once or twice a week, are often at a loss 
to know how to provide a variety of meat in warm weather. 
We always keep a piece of dried beef on hand, and when we 
do not know what else to get, we cut as much as we want into 
thin shavings, put into the skillet, pour hot water over it, 
let it stand a minute, pour off the water, add a piece of 
butter, (for a family of five and the quantity of beef re- 
quired, it will need butter half the size of an egg,) pepper, 
break three or four eggs into it, and stir around until the 
eggs are cooked. The skillet and beef should be quite hot 
and over a quick fire when the eggs are put in. Another 
nice way to prepare dried beef is to shave it thin, place it 
in the dish in which it is to be served, and pour over it 
hot gravy made of half cream and half sweet milk 
thicken with a little flour, wet with cold milk and seasoned 
with pepper. Dried beef thus prepared and poured over 
toasted bread, makes a nice breakfast dish. 

Fanny Field. 
Pickled Beef. — Have a clean barrel, put a false head 
in the bottom; to 1 bbl. of beef take 10 lbs. of salt, 10 lbs. 
of white sugar, and { lb. of saltpetre. Pulverize the salt- 
petre and mix the three thoroughly. Put a sprinkling on 



— 64 — 

the bottom, lay in one layer and pound it down thoroughly;, 
one cannot pound it too much, then another layer, and so 
on until full. Put the drying beef on top. Pound all 
thoroughly, and put the salt and sugar that are left on top. 
Make no brine, as on the third day it will be covered with 
brine. As the meat is taken out, put a weight on to keep- 
the meat under the brine. It will keep till August. 

L. Munson. 
. Fried Salt Pork. — If the pork is side meat, cut *t 
into medium thin slices, put into a spider; cover with cold 
water, set on the back ot the stove until freshened; but do 
not let it boil. Flour both sides, drop in a small quantity 
of hot lard or fat, sprinkle with pepper, fry till brown on 
both sides, and serve immediately. 

Boiled Salt Pork. — Boil a piece of salt pork till 
nearly done, (if very salty, change the water,) then place on 
a pan, score the rind, as if you were slicing it for the table, 
just cutting through the rind, dust with pepper and roast 
one hour in a hot oven. 

Fresh Sausage. — Put into a frying pan, if stuffed, turn 
a little water on it, and let it boil dry, add fat enougn to 
fry. For pickled sausage, boil half an hour, then roast one 
hour in the oven. 

Making Sausages. — Have f lean and £ fat pork, 
chopped or ground very fine; 1 lb. of salt, J lb., of pepper 
and a teacupful of powdered sage to 40 lbs. of meat. Warm 
the meat so that you can mix it well with the hands. Da 
up a part in small patties, with a little flour mixed wnn 
them, the rest pack in jars or cases. They should be kept 
where it is cool, but not damp. To prevent those sturTe.l 
in cases from bursting while cooking, never make a hole in. 
them with a fork when turning. 

Head-cheese. — After the heads are boiled and chopped, 
season with pepper, salt and sage to taste; put into a kettle 
heat it hot, then put it into a thin muslin bag and hang np 
to drain. 



— 65 — 

Pig's Feet. — Wash them clean and scrape, place in a 
deep pan, and pour scalding water over them, take them 
out, light a piece of paper and burn off" the hairs; then 
place them in warm water, boil slowly till tender, then put 
them into vinegar, let them simmer very slowly for 
half an hour; fill a small muslin bag with equal parts of all- 
spice and cloves, the bag to be of the size of an egg for 12 
pig's feet; tie up and drop into the feet and vinegar, let all 
boil for 10 minutes; salt to taste. 

Caper Sauce. — Take 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 1 of 
flour, and mix well; pour on boiling water until it thickens; 
add 1 hard boiled egg chopped fine, and 2 tablespoonfuls 
of capers 

Oyster Dressing. — Take 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 
and 2 of butter; brown the butter and flour in a dripper; 
add water to make it thin for gravy; boil; add one pint of 
oysters chopped; pepper and salt to taste. 

Drawn Butter. — Take -J cupful of butter, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of flour, rubbed thoroughly together, then stir into 
a pint of boiling water : a little salt; parsley if wished. 

Mustard Relish. — Take 4 tablespoonfuls of English 
mustard, 2 teaspoonfulc of salt, 2 teaspoonfuls of white 
sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls of salad oil, 1 teaspoonlul of pepper, 
and vinegar to make a smooth paste — that from celery or 
onion pickle is best. Rub the mustard, sugar, oil, pepper, 
and salt together. Wet by degrees with the vinegar, beat- 
ing very hard at last, when the proper consistency has 
been gained. This will be found much superior to mus- 
tard as usually prepared for the table. 



— 66 



COOKING POULTRY. 

Roasting a Turkey. — Grate a small loat of stale 
bread; chop an onion fine and fry it in a little butter until 
light brown, taking care that it does not burn. Mix it 
with the bread crumbs; add a coffee cupful of melted but- 
ter, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a quart of oysters 
drained of their liquor, and pepper and salt to suit the 
taste. Stuff the bird with this dressing; tie the wings and 
legs close to the body, so it can be easily turned while in 
the pan, and also present a nice appearance on the table. 
Rub with salt, drop bits of butter over it and place it in a 
rather hot oven. After it is slightly browned, the heat 
may be decreased. Be sure to keep the bottom of the 
dripping pan covered with water, or it will burn the gravy 
and make it bitter. Baste the fowl every ten minutes at 
least, with its own drippings. A turkey weighing 10 pounds 
when dressed will require three hours to roast. Have the 
giblets boiled tender, chopped fine, and return to the 
saucepan with the water in which they were boiled. When 
the turkey is done remove to a platter, pour off the surp;as 
fat from the pan, and set it on top of the stove. Rub ;nlo 
the fat left in the pan, a tablespoonful of dry flour, add .lie 
giblets and more water if necessary, a little salt and pepper 
Let it boil a few minutes and serve in a gravy bowl. The 
oyster liquor scalded, skimmed, strained and added to the 
gravy while cooking is an improvement. Never stick a 
fork into a turkey while roasting, as it lets the juice escape. 
Always choose a bird less than a year old to roast. 

L. S. F. 

Roast Goose or Duck. — Singe, draw and truss the 
fowl; if an old one parboil it. The best stuffing for a 
goose is made with sage and onions; if a strong flavor of 
onions is liked they should be chopped raw; if not they 
should be boiled in one or two waters, and mixed with 



— 67 — 

bread crumbs, powdered cage; salt and pepper to taste. 
Fill the bird with stuffing, sew up with coarse thread, 
sprinkle salt over, and set in a dripping pan with a little 
water. Baste frequently, and do not take from the oven 
until thoroughly done. 

Roast Chicken. — Singe and truss carefully. "Broil- 
ers" are better without stuffing unless very large. Season 
with salt, put small bits of butter over the meat, and place 
in a pan with a little water; baste occasionally and dredge 
with flour before taking from the oven. Spring chicken 
cooked in any style is good. 

Broiled Chicken. — After the young chicken is dressed 
properly, put to boiling in soft water, salted to suit the 
taste. When boiled until tender, and there should only 
enough water be left to keep the meat from burning, lay the 
pieces in the spider, spreading them evenly over the sur- 
face, then pour the soup over the meat, and add to it a 
bowlful of rich sweet cream; set the spider into the oven, 
and crisp it brown; then serve hot. - dot. 

Another Way. — Take a nice, fat young chicken, clean 
and cut in such pieces as you wish. Some fried potatoes 
cut in small dice are boiled with the chicken. When near- 
ly done (be sure to have plenty of water) take half a tea- 
cupful of flour, put in sweet milk enough to stir smooth; 
stir it in the chicken and potatoes, which have previously 
been seasoned with salt and pepper to suit the taste; let it 
cook a few minutes and serve. Thresher's Wife. 

Chicken Pie. — Take 2 full grown chickens, or more if 
small, disjoint them, etc., :,c small as convenient. Boil 
them with a few slices of salt pork in water enough to cover 
them, let it boil quite tender, then take out the breast bone 
After they boil, and the scum is taken off, put in a very 
little onion cut fine, (not enough to have it taste distinctly, 
but just flavor a little,) rub some parsley very fine if dry, 
(chop it fine if green,) this gives pleasant flavor, season well 
with pepper and salt and a few ounces of good butter. 



— 68 — 

When all is cooked well, have liquid enough to cover the 
chicken, then beat 2 eggs, and stir in some sweet cream. 
Line a five-quart pan with crust made like soda biscuit, 
only using more shortening, put in the chicken and liquids, 
cover with a crust the same as the lining. Be suie to make 
a good large hole in the top crust for gas to escape. Bake 
until the crust is done. The eggs and cream can be ielt 
out if desired. 

Boned Chicken. — Boil a chicken in as little water as* 
possible, until the meat will fall from the bones; remove 
all the skin, chop together the light and dark parts, season 
with pepper and salt. Boil down the liquid in which the 
chicken was boiled, with a large spoonful of gelatine dis- 
solved Slice hard boiled eggs, and line a tin with them,, 
bottom and sides, put the meat in carefully, pour the liquid 
on top, and set away in a cool place until thoroughly cold. 
Then turn it out on a platter, and send to the table whole. 
Slice in thin slices at the table. This is a most tempting 
dish, both to the eye and palate. 

Baked Pot-pie. — Cook the chicken until tender, then 
season and thicken the gravy a little. Take out into a. 
dripping pan or spider, stir up some baking powder biscuit, 
and drop spoonfuls on top, bake until the biscuits are a 
nice brown. Be sure to have plenty of gravy. 

Meat Pies. — A veal shank, a shoulder of a pig, or 
tender fowl makes nice suitable stock for a pot pie. Use 
for dumplings the same receipt as for soda biscuit, 2 cup- 
fuls of sour milk or buttermilk, 1 cupful of thin sour cream, 
1 teaspoonful of salt, and 1 of soda, roll thin and cut in 
squares. Put into the soup a cupful of cold cream before 
adding the dough. Be sure you have all at boiling point 
when the dough is put in. Do not uncover the pot 
after the dough is put in until done. Be careful to have 
the water boil over each piece, so that they will not stick 
together. Do not put the lid on after you serve the first, 
or after once taken off, as it makes the dough heavy. This 
holds good in boiling any kind of dumplings. 



— 69 — 



HOW TO COOK EGGS. 

Omelets. — Take six eggs, beat the yelks and whites 
•separately, very light; 1 cupful of milk, 1 large spoonful of 
flour, mix the flour smooth with part of the milk, then 
add the yelks, and the whites last, salt and pepper. Put 
lard and butter into the skillet, put in part of the mixture 
{'always being sure to lift up well from the bottom,) when 
browned, turn half over; when done serve immediately. 

Omelet No. 2. — Take a slice of salt pork about three 
inches square, freshen and fry in the usual way, then cut up 
into small pieces; beat 3 eggs, then add 3 tablespoonfuls of 
flour and stir until smooth, add 24- cupfuls of milk and a 
little salt, turn this over the meat while it is very hot, and 
let it fry until it is a nice brown, then cut into'large pieces, 
turn, and brown the other side. 

Fried Eggs. — Break eggs into hot salt fat, (ham fat is 
best,) put a lid over the skillet and let the fat sputter until 
the eggs are done, do not turn them over. 

Poached Eggs. — Nearly fill a frying pan with boiling 
water, (grease the bottom first,) add a little salt and vine- 
gar. Break the eggs one at a time into a wet saucer, slip 
from this on the surface of the water, cook slowly three 
minutes, take up with a perforated skimmer, and lay on 
buttered toast or a hot platter. 

Surprise Eggs. — Boil eggs hard, and after removing 
the shells carefully, remove the yelks through as small an 
opening as possible and fill the whites with finely minced 
chicken. This is "chicken in the egg." 

Egg Toast. — Toast half a dozen slices of good bread, 
and butter well; take the yelks left from "surprise eggs" 
and rub fine; sprinkle each piece thickly, pile in a dish, and 
pour over it a pint of cream gravy. Send to the table 
smoking hot. 



— 70 — 

Mock Eggs. — Make up dough as for doughnuts, cut it 
in egg shapes, (if you have no oval cutter, press a small 
powder box into shape,) fry and when done, ice them, and 
dry in a cool oven. Cut the shapes of dough a little thicker 
than ordinary doughnuts, and do not spare the icing. 

Hen's Nest. — Take half a head of cabbage and shred 
clear around to make them long. Season and color with 
yelks of 2 eggs, beaten up with 2 spoonfuls of thick cream, 
and one of vinegar. This is the straw, which must be 
arranged nest-fashion on a low flat glass dish. For the 
eggs, use pickled eggs, half of them colored in beet jar. 
This makes a palatable as well as ornamental dish, and is 
relished by big people as well as little ones. 

Cold Deviled Eggs. — Boil a number of eggs very 
hard; when cold remove the shells and cut each egg in 
halves lengthwise; take out the yelks and mash them fine, 
with a little pepper and salt, and a pinch of dry mustard; 
moisten with a little butter and vinegar. Fill the empty 
whites cut in halves, with this mixture, and arrange on a 
platter garnished with parsley, for lunch or tea. 



SALADS. 



Cabbage. — Chop enough cabbage fine for one meal for 
your family; salt and pepper, and put into a vegetable dish. 
Take half a teacupful of good vinegar, a piece of butter 
the size of half an egg and one teaspoonful of sugar, put 
them into a basin and set on the stove and boil; break one 
egg into a teacup, and beat one tablespoonful of flour in it, 
then add half a cupful of sweet milk; turn in the vinegar, 
and cook until it is a smooth gravy. Keep stirring all the 
time; turn it over the cabbage, mix thoroughly, and turn a 
plate over it till wanted. 



— 71 — 

Potato Salad. — Slice about a dozen cold boiled po- 
tatoes very thin; place them on a platter and pour over 
them a dressing made as follows: — One cupful of vinegar, 
1 teaspoonful of English mustard. 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 
1 egg; place on the stove, let it come to a boil, then stir the 
egg in, add 2 teaspoonfulsof olive oil, or 2 tablespoonfuls of 
thick cream. Use " Durkee's Salad. Dressing," instead of 
the mustard, if you have it. A few slices of onion im- 
prove it. Do not let the dressing boil after putting in the 
last ingredients. 

Mrs. Grace Smith. 

Cucumber and Onion Salad. — Pare cucumbers and lay 
in cold water 1 hour; do the same with onions, in another 
bowl. Then slice in the proportion of 1 onion to 3 large 
cucumbers; arrange in a salad bowl, and season with vinegar, 
pepper and salt. 

Lettuce Salad. — Use one-third as much salad oil as 
you do vinegar; pepper and salt to suit the taste. Cut up 
young lettuce with a sharp knife, pile into a salad bowl; 
sprinkle with sugar, pour the rest of ingredients mixed to- 
gether over the salad, and stir up with a fork to mix well. 



COOKING VEGETABLES. 

Have the vegetables cooked on the same day they are 
gathered, if in summer; wash well, cut out all decayed 
parts, lay in cold water sometime before using, and let the 
water boil before you put them in. Potatoes require 
about half an hour to boil; turnips, 40 minutes to 1 hour; 
cabbage y 2 hour to 1 hour, in salted water; beets about 2 
hours, then put into cold water and the skins will slip off; 
boil onions in two waters; add milk to the first water and 
also to the second, if liked; string beans require 1 hour; 
shell beans \y 2 hours; boiled green corn 20 minutes. 



— 72 — 

Potatoes. — First boil some small potatoes with their 
jackets on; the moment they are done take them out of the 
water; do not let them get soft as they will not keep their 
shape; remove the skins; have ready some boiling lard as 
for frying cakes; drop the potatoes in and fry until a light 
brown, turning them gently from side to side. 

Saratoga Potatoes. — Pare and slice thin, lengthwise, 
large potatoes; wash and drain, have hot lard in a kettle 
as for doughnuts; put in part of the potatoes, in a wire 
sieve or basket if you have it, if not put in a few loose and 
stir frequently; when brown, lift and put in a dish and serve 
immediately, salt them after they are fried. 

Potato Cakes. — These are extremely nice for break- 
fast. To make them take 1 pint of mashed potatoes, 1 pint 
of flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, a little salt, milk suf- 
ficient to make a thick batter, and half a teacupful of fresh 
yeast. Mix the ingredients, and let the batter rise until it 
is light; bake in muffin tins or gem pans. Serve in a veget- 
able dish. 

Warmed up Potatoes. — Put potatoes into a dish large 
enough to admit of beating in two or more eggs and a lit- 
tle flour; add a little more salt, then dip them into a pan 
of hot butter and lard mixed (the same as you would use 
for fried potatoes), with a spoon, and when the little cakes 
thus formed are fried to a nice light brown, you will find 
you have not enough for supper. 

Boiled Cabbage. — Boil cabbage till tender, dr ain dry, 
chop fine, season with salt, add a teacupful of cracker or 
bread crumbs, rolled fine, a cupful of sweet cream, and 
three well beaten eggs. Mix well and fill a buttered pud- 
ding dish with it. Bake 20 minutes, and serve hot. 

Cauliflowers. — Steam the head whole; — when tender 
immerse in a hot gravy made of one pint of sweet cream, 
seasoned with pepper, salt and butter, brought to the boil- 
ing point, then poured over the cauliflower, and serve hot. 



— 73 — 

Hot Slaw. — Cut a hard white head of cabbage into 2 
pieces, shave 1 piece as fine as possible, and put it into a 
stew pan with a piece of butter the size of an egg, 1 small 
teaspoonful of salt, and nearly as much pepper; add half 
a teacupful of water, and 1 teacupful of vinegar. Cover 
the stew pan, and cook the cabbage until it is tender, stir- 
ring it often while cooking. 

Celery. — Choose that which is white and tender; put 
it into cold water until wanted, and serve between the oys- 
ters and the meat. 

String Beans. — Take off the tops and tails, and the 
strings on both sides; cut into short pieces. Cook tender 
in boiling water, add a little salt; when done pour in a cup- 
ful of cream, (or milk, and a large piece of butter), let it 
Doil up, thicken the gravy slightly, if desired, and serve 
hot. 

Slccotash — Take 4 ears of sweet corn cut from the 
cob, 1 pint of lima beans, 1 tablespoonful of floured butter, 
pepper and salt, 1 cupful of milk. Boil the beans an hour, 
then add the corn, and boil 15 minutes; serve hot. 

To Can String Beans. — Prepare the beans as for cook- 
ing, then to one gallon of beans add about half a pint of 
salt, then pour on water enough to cover and boil until 
thoroughly cooked, then can as you would tomatoes or 
fruit. When wanted for use, if for dinner, open the can in 
the morning, pour fresh water over, changing two or three 
times, or until sufficiently free from salt, then season as 
you would new beans. 

Mrs. T- F. C. 
Canning Corn. — Take 1 ounce of tartaric acid to six 
quarts of corn; cut the corn from the cob, put on sufficient 
water to cook, or nearly to cover it. Dissolve the acid in 
a little boiling water while the corn is cooking, stir this in and 
put into tin cans. To prepare for the table; pour off the 
sour water and save it, put in enough fresh water to cook the 
corn, add to every quart of corn one small teaspoonful of 



— 74 — 

soda and let it stand a few minutes before cooking. While 
cooking put in one teaspoonful of sugar. If the corn turns 
yellow there is too much soda; pour back some of the sour 
water until it turns white again. When done, season. 

Another Way. — Use the Mason jars: Take the ears. 
of corn and run the knife through every row of kernels. 
In cutting from the cobs make three slices, after which 
scrape the cobs. This makes the corn fine and juicy and 
is quite essential to its keeping qualities. Fill the cans 
well, press down and let the juices run off; fill again with the 
corn until the can is well packed, but not too tight, as room 
must be allowed for expansion, else the cans will burst 
when heated. Turn the covers on about half way, next 
prepare your boiler with twigs or a folded towel in the bot- 
tom, set the cans in; put clean clothes between them to pre- 
vent their rubbing together, and pour cold water into the 
boiler until it touches the rim of the covers. Cover the 
boiler; put it'over the fire and let it boil three hours. Be 
particular about that. Then take out the cans, screw the 
covers down tight and put away in a dark, dry, cool place. 
This process is extensively used in some sections, and is 
pronounced a success. 

Baked Beans. — Pick over and wash two quarts of white 
beans, and put them to soak in cold water over night. In 
the morning put them into a kettle with fresh cold water, 
and a teaspoonful of soda, let them come to a boil and 
cook fifteen minutes. Drain off the water, put in a pound 
of salt pork, a teaspoonful of salt, half a cupful of molasses, 
half a teaspoonful of soda, and boiling water enough to 
cover the beans. Put a cover on the pan or kettle in which 
you bake the beans, and bake with a steady moderate heat 
about 5 hours. They should be stirred two or three times 
while bakiug, and if the water dries away before the beans 
are done, more should be added. Pork that has a streak 
of fat and a streak of lean, is the best for baking with 
beans, and it should be buried in the beans, not placed on 



— i o — 

top. When the beans are done they should "be dry, - but 
not too dry, and so tender that they will mash easily when 
stirred. You can leave them in the oven an hoUr or so 
with the door ajar, and it imoroves the taste. 

Fanny Field.. 

Cooking Tomatoes. — Tomatoes should not be cooked 
in iron; it injures the color and spoils the flavor. Tin 
may be used, but the tomatoes should not be allowed to 
stand after they are removed from the fire. Porcelain or 
granite is the best. To peel tomatoes pour boiling water 
over them, and let them stand a few minutes; the skins will 
slip off easily. 

Sliced Tomatoes. — Peel and slice; remove all green 
portions; boil slowly half an hour; season with salt, pepper 
and butter to taste; a little sugar if you like; cook 15 min- 
utes longer, turn into a vegetable dish, and serve hot. 

Another Way. — To a quart of tomatoes add one small 
onion chopped fine; boil half an hour, season, add half a 
teacupful of cracker crumbs, cook ten minutes longer and 
serve. 

Tomatoes and Corn. — Cut the corn from the cob as 
for succotash, mix with an equal quantity of tomatoes; sea- 
son with salt, pepper and butter. 

Baked Tomatoes. — Take large round ones, cut a small 
piece from the top of each, remove the insides and fill with 
a mixture of cracker or stale bread crumbs, boiled sweet 
corn, and onion chopped fine and seasoned. Place the 
filled tomatoes side by side m a covered baking pan with 
a little water and butter, and bake in a moderate oven 30 
minutes. 

Vegetable Oysters. — Scrape vegetable oysters and 
throw them into cold water to prevent discoloring. When 
you have sufficient, cut them in pieces half an inch long, 
and boil, in just water enough to cover, till tender. Dram 
oft the vrater, add a quart of milk, butter the size of an egg. 
and a little salt. Thicken with a tablespoonful of flour 



— 76 — 

made smoo h in a little cold milk. Have ready a pan of 
nice biscuits; split them open on a platter, turn the oysters 
over, and serve. Or boil the roots whole, slice lengthwise, 
and fry in butter, as you would parsnips. 



MAKING PICKLES. 

Salt Cucumbers. — Gather them when of suitable size ; 
wash and drain ; then pack in a cask with plenty of rock 
salt. Fit a cover to put on top of the cucumbers, and 
weight it down to keep them under the brine. Do not put 
in any water; the cucumbers will make their own brine. 

A better way is to take one gallon of ater, one quart of 
vinegar and one pint of salt ; scald and skim. You will 
-then have to ireshen them only a very short time before 
putting them into vinegar for use. 

Green Tomato Pickle. — Slice green tomatoes, sprinkle* 
salt over each layer, and let them stand over night. In the 
morning drain them into scalding vinegar, and scald about 
five minutes ; then skim out and pack into glass fruit cans, 
putting a dessert-spoonful of whole cloves and the same 
quantity of cinnamon bark into each can. Take fresh vine- 
gar, add a teacupful of sugar to each quart, heat Doihng 
hot, fill the cans full and seal. They should stand at least 
two months before using. 

Tomato Pickle No. 2. — Take one gallon of sliced toma- 
toes, the greener the better, salt them in layers, and lee them 
stand overnight. In the morning drain well; slice lour 
large onions, put a layer of tomatoes in the jar, then a x'ew 
slices of onion, and proceed in this manner until they are 
all put in. Cut six green peppers very fine and spread over 
the top ; take one tablespooful of black pepper, one of 
allspice, two of cloves, three of mustard ; put into a bag 



— 77 — 

and boil in the vineger till the strength is extracted, then 
put the bag on top of the pickles and pour on boiling 
vinegar enough to cover them. Cover the jar tightly and 
let it stand three weeks before opening. 

Pickled Peppers. — Take large green peppers, cut off 
a piece of the stem end take out the seeds without break- 
ing the outside of the pepper, and lay the peppers in salt 
water — half a teacupful of salt to one quart of water — for 
three days, changing the water every day. Then fill the 
peppers with chopped cabbage, or equal parts of chopped 
cabbage and tomatoes ; tie on the pieces cut off, and pack 
in a jar with a few pieces of horseradish, and pour hot. 
vinegar on them. Weight them down to keep them covered 
with vinegar. Add a little chopped onion if desired. 

Hodge Podge. — Take 2 heads of cabbage, 2 dozen 
large green cucumbers. 1 peck of green tomatoes, and as. 
many onions as you want. Chop the tomatoes, cucumbers 
and onions, sprinkle with salt and drain 12 hours ; chop 
the cabbage and mix all together ; pour cold vinegar over 
and let it stand 24 hours ; drain 12 hours. Take 2 quarts of 
vinegar, -J pound of white mustard seed, 1 tablespoonful of 
allspice, 1 each of cloves, cinnamon, ginger, ground must- 
ard, and -J tablespoonful of cayenne pepper. Put all 
together, boil 15 minutes, more or less, as you wish. 

Clara T. Spellman. 

Favorite Pickle. — Take equal parts of chopped cab- 
bage and green tomatoes ; to eight quarts of this mixture 
add one quart of chopped onion, one pint of chopped green 
peppers and one quart of salt. Mix thoroughly and let it 
stand over night. In the morning drain until juice no- 
longer drips ; then scald for five minutes in good cider 
vinegar* pack into glass cans; fill up with hot vinegar and 
seal. For immediate use, scald a little longer, pack in stone 
jars with a little horseradish to prevent molding, and a 
weight to keep the pickles under the vinegar. 

Sweet Pickles. — One pint of sugar, a dessert-spoonful 



— 78 — 

each of whole cloves, broken cinnamon bark, and whole 
allspice, to every quart of good cider vinegar. Heat scald- 
ing hot, put in the fruit, steam until about half done or 
soft enough to be pierced with a broom straw, then skim 
the fruit out, pack in cans, fill up with the syrup and seal. 
Ripe cucumbers, watermelon rinds, sweet apples, pears 
and peaches can all be made into sweet spiced pickles. 
Watermelon rinds should be pared and only the firm part 
next the outer skin used. Cucumbers must be pared, and 
all the soft parts scraped away. Apples, pears and peaches, 
ripe, but not mellow, should be pared, and halved or 
quartered. When peaches are used, a few of the pits, 
bruised and put into the cans, will give the pickles a deli- 
cious flavor. Cucumbers and watermelon rinds are im- 
proved by soaking in weak brine over night, and scalding 
in weak alum water (two teaspoonfuls of alum to a quart of 
water) before scalding in the syrup. 

Fanny Field. 

Mixed Pickles. — Shave fine several heads of new cab- 
bage, sprinkle over them a tablespoonful of salt to each pound 
of cabbage; pack in a crock and pour over it a syrup made 
of one quart of maple syrup and one quart of best cider 
vinegar, boiling hot, and seasoned with a tablespoonful 
each of cloves; cinnamon, pepper, mace and white mustard 
seed, all unground. Let it stand two days, then turn off 
and heat again, adding more vinegar; syrup too, if wished. 
Soak green tomatoes and cucumbers in salt and waer 24 
hours, then chop them not too fine; cook the tomatoes till 
they can be pierced with a splint, then drain thoroughly, 
both the cucumbers and tomatoes, and add them to the 
pickled cabbage, making more juice if necessary, as they 
must be covered. A few pieces of horseradish will preserve 
the pickles. Dot. 

Mangoes. — Take small green muskmelons, cut a piece 
out of one side, remove the seeds and fill the 
cavity with a mixture of chopped cabbage, green 



— 79 — 

tomatoes, onions, peppers and whole nasturtion pods; 
put a few whole cloves, allspice berries, bits of 
cinnamon, and a little white mustard seed in each 
mango. Sew in the piece taken out, pack the mangoes in 
a jar with a few pieces of bruised horseradish, and pour 
scalding vinegar over them; let it stand three days, then 
pour off the vinegar; heat with a cupful of sugar to every 
two quarts of vinegar, and return to the pickles. Weight 
them down. 

Pickled Onions. — Take the smallest onions, peel and 
scald in a jar, with water enough to cover, and salt enough 
to season them. Then scald in vinegar enough to cover 
them, to which you have added a few bird peppers. Then 
put into a jar, throwing the hot vinegar over them. Let 
them stand a few days and they are fit for u^e. Do not let 
them cook too long, or they will be soft. 

Tomato Catsup. — Take one peck of ripe tomatoes, 
scald, peel, cut in pieces, remove the green portions and 
cook until done. When cool enough, rub through a sieve; 
put back into the kettle ( not iron ) add half a teacupful of 
salt, 1 tablespoonful each of ground cloves, allspice, cinna- 
mon and ground mustard, and 1 teaspoonful of cayenne pep- 
per. Boil until quite thick, taking care not to scorch; then 
add a pint of good cider vinegar, and boil half an hour 
longer. Put into bottles while hot; cork tight, cut the 
corks off even with the tops of the bottles; cover with seal- 
ing wax, and keep in a cool place. 

Chili Sauce. — Take 6 large ripe tomatoes, 4 green pep- 
pers, 1 onion, 1 tablespoonful of sugar, 1 of salt, and 1| 
cupfuls of strong vinegar, chop the peppers and onions and 
boil one hour. 

Spiced Gooseberries. — Use a porcelain kettle, as in 
cooking all fruit Prepare the fruit as for preserving. TaKe 5 
lbs. of fruit, 3£ pounds of light brown sugar, a quart of vine- 
gar, £ ounce of whole cloves, and bits of cinnamon. Tie 
spices together in a cloth; put the vinegar, sugar and spices 



— 80 — 

into the preserving kettle; let them boil about ten minutes,, 
then put in the gooseberries. Let them cook until the 
liquid is quite thick, and then can up hot. This is nice 
with meats. 

Spiced Currants. — Take 7 pounds of currants, 4 lbs., 
ot sugar, 1 pint of vinegar (medium strength), 1 table- 
spoonful of cinnamon, 1 of cloves, and one teaspoonful of 
allspice. Boil slowly two hours or more. 

Pickled Apples. — Take one quart of vinegar, 6 cupfuls 
of brown sugar, 1 teaspoonful each of cloves, cinnamon, 
and allspice; boil the vinegar and sugar together; skim it, 
then add the spices. Boil in this syrup, sweet apples cut in 
halves (but not pared) till soft, but not till they break. 



CANNING, PRESERVING, ETC. 

In the directions for canning fruit in glass cans, one is 
always meeting with various instructions for preventing 
breakage. The only precaution necessary is wetting the 
can to be filled, and setting on a wet cloth. When the 
cans are emptied, they should be washed, scalded, and 
thoroughly dried, the rubber and top put in their proper 
places and the can set away. When again wanted the cans 
are clean and each one is already fitted with its own 
individual rubber and top. Tin canned goods, when 
opened should be immediately transferred to glass or 
earthenware dishes. Recent investigations show that cases 
of poisoning from eating canned goods have arisen from the 
acid of the canned tood attacking the solder of the tins,. 
and sometimes from decomposition, accelerated by an 
electrical action between the solder and the iron of the 
tin. Never leave canned fruits, meats, or fish, in opened 
tin cans. 



— 81 — 

Canning Grapes. — Pick the grapes carefully and fill 
the cans, being careful to place them as compactly as pos- 
sible without breaking the skins; fill with boiling syrup as 
sweet as desired. To keep grapes without canning, boil a 
thick molasses from sugar, and pour boiling hot oyer the 
grapes. They will keep in this way and are ready for use 
any time. 

Keeping Gooseberries. — Pick gooseberries when fully 
ripe; for each quart take a J pound of sugar and a gill of 
water; boil together into a syrup, then put in the fruit and 
continue to boil gently for fifteen minutes. Put into stone 
jars and cover them closely when cold. Keep them for 
making tarts and pies. Gooseberries, and pie plant can be 
successfully kept by filling the cans and covering with pure 
cold water and corking tightly or sealing as desired. 

Canning Strawberries. — Put alternate layers of sugar 
and fruit into a stone jar in a cool place over night; next 
morning add a very little water, bring to a boil and can like 
other fruit. Strain the juice left, boil down to half, add as 
much sugar as juice and boil till it will jelly. 

Cooking Cranberries. — Pour over one quart of ber" 
ries a quart of boiling water, let it stand till cold, drain off 
the water and stew like any fruit; sweeten to taste. The 
boiling water removes the bitter taste. 

Maple Syrup. — In canning syrup place in each can a 
piece of alum about the size of a pea; this will prevent crys- 
tals torming in the bottom of the can, and makes no differ- 
ence in the flavor of the syrup. 

Citron Preserves. — Pare and remove the seeds, re- 
jecting all but the solid part of the melon. Cut in such 
pieces as you choose. Weigh the pieces and boil in water 
till you can easily run a splinter through them. Remove 
the fruit and add sugar to make the syrup, allowing one 
pound of sugar to each pound of citron. When it boils put 
in the fruit and boil slowly one hour. When cold add lem- 
on, allowing one lemon for two pounds of citron. One large 



— 82 — 

teacupful of water is the rule for one pound of fruit. 

"Martha's method " is to pare, take out seeds, cut into 
small squares, and boil in clear water till they can be pierced 
with a fork. Add 10 pounds of white sugar to 10 pounds 
of fruit; cook 5 minutes; skim the fruit into a jar, putting 1 
dozen sliced lemons with it. Boil the juice until thick, and 
pour it over the fruit. This will keep without sealing. 

Quince Marmalade. — Pare, quarter and core the 
quinces, cut them into little pieces, measure them and al- 
low an equal quantity of sugar; place in a porcelain kettle, 
with just enough water to cover them, simmer gently until 
the fruit is tender, then skim it out, and add the sugar to 
the water. Let it boil and skim thoroughly, as the clear- 
ness of the syrup depends on this; after skimming drop the 
fruit into it. Do this carefully to preserve the shape of the 
fruit; let this boil gently for 15 minutes, then put it into 
jelly molds or glasses The syrup is like jelly and the fruit, 
if it is cooked right, will not be too much broken to distin- 
guish it, and makes a very ornamental dish. May S. 

Preserving Raspberries. — The fruit should be gather- 
ed in the middle of a very warm day in dry weather. Strip 
from the stems immediately; weigh and turn it into a pan; 
bruise it gently and mix with an equal weight of fine, dry, 
sifted sugar, and put at once into wide neck bottles; cork 
these firmly without delay, and tie bladders over the tops. 
Keep in a cool place or it will ferment. The mixture 
should be stirred only enough to blend the sugar with the 
fruit. The bottles should be perfectly dry, and the blad- 
ders moistened with a little brandy on the side next the 
cork. 

Grape Jam. — Pick the fruit off the stems, wash, then 
boil gently until soft and strain through a sieve. To a pint of 
the liquid add a pound of sugar, boil down till thick, like 
apple butter. 

Currant Jam. — To every two bowlfuls of currants take 
one of seeded raisins. Weigh, allowing one pound of sugar 



— 83 — 

to one of fruit, and boil till thick. 

Blackberry Jam. — Weigh the berries and allow § lb. 
of sugar to 1 lb. of berries. Cook the berries in a little 
water for half an hour, then add the sugar and boil for ten 
or fifteen minutes longer, stirring all the time. Seal in cans. 
Half a teaspoonful of ground cloves to every pint of berries 
is a great improvement. 

Gooseberry Jam. — Pick the berries just as they begin 
to turn; stem, wash and weigh. To 4 pounds of fruit add 
-£ teacupful of water; boil until soft, and add 4 pounds of 
sugar and boil until clear. If picked at the right stage, the 
jam will be amber-colored and firm, and much nicer than if 
the fruit is preserved when ripe. 

Strawberry Jelly. — Take a pint of strawberry juice, 
made by cooking the berries until very soft, and then strain- 
ing. Soak a box of gelatine in a little cold water for two 
hours. Then add to it the juice of two lemons, and sugar 
if liked. Pour over the whole a quart of boiling water and 
let it come to a hard boil. Take it off and fill a mould 
half full with it; set on ice and keep the rest of the jelly in 
a warm place. When that in the mould is hard enough, 
place it on some large strawberries, then pour on it the 
rest of the jelly that has been kept liquid. 

Currant Jelly. — Boil the currants 20 minutes; strain 
the juice and measure 1 pound of sugar to each pint of 
juice. Boil the juice two minutes, then add to the sugar 
and boil the whole together one minute. This is very 
nice. A good jelly is made by taking equal parts of cur- 
rant and raspberry juice; boil and skim; add sugar in pro- 
portion of one pound to a pint of juice, and boil from five 
to fifteen minutes. 

Blackberry Jelly. — Use only perfect fruit; boil till 
tender in enough water to keep from burning; strain through 
a flannel jelly-bag, pressing out all the juice. Strain two 
or three times through a clean cloth, return the juice to a 
clean preserving kettle and for every pint of juice allow one 



— 84 — 

pound of sugar and the beaten white of an egg for the 
whole. Boil rapidly 20 minutes, counting from the time it 
begins to boil. It is well to test it by putting a few drops 
in a tin on ice. When done run through the jelly-bag ; if 
not clear, run through until it becomes so. Put the jelly 
into glasses, and when it has become firm, cut out little 
papers to fit the top, dip them in brandy and put over the 
jelly. Place over these, larger papers dipped in the white 
of an egg, pressed close against the sides of the glass to 
exclude the air. 

Cranberry Jelly. — To every pint of berries take one 
pint of sugar; boil the sugar to syrup, then put in the berries; 
boil twenty minutes, stirring briskly all the time; just before 
taking off the fire, add one teaspoonful of vanilla to every 
quart. This is to be eaten with meat. If put into teacups 
to cool, three turned on a plate are enough; if in large 
moulds one is sufficient. It is to be passed around the 
table, and cut with a silver knife. 

Harlequin Jelly. — Wash a jelly mould with white of 
an egg, melt a little currant jelly, pour it in, let it cool; melt 
some plum jelly, pour this in, and let it cool, and so on in 
layers of various colors. 

Delicious Wine Jelly. — Take one box of gelatine one- 
half pint of cold water, one and one-half pints of boiling 
water, one pint of sherry, one pint of sugar and the juice 
of one lemon. Soak the gelatine two hours in the cold 
water, then pour in the boiling water and stir until dissolved. 
Add the lemon juice, sugar and wine; strain through a nap- 
kin, turn some of it into a mould, harden a little, put in a 
layer of strawberries, and pour in jelly to set them. After 
they have set, add another layer of the jelly, then another 
of berries, and so fill each mould, alternating the jelly and 
berries. 



— 85 — 



BREAD AND YEAST. 

Bread, biscuit, rolls, and pie crust, are all greatly im- 
proved in flavor and color, if they are lightly brushed over 
with milk just before they are put into the oven. A little 
sugar dissolved in the milk is an addition. 

Dry Yeast. — Take six good sized potatoes, boil until 
done in one quart of water; also take a large handful of 
hops, tie in a bag and boil till the strength is extracted, -n 
one quart of water; then take two pints of flour, scald with 
the hop water, and cool, and thin with the potato water. 
When lukewarm, add enough good yeast to start it; let it 
rise until perfectly light; beat down and let it rise again. 
Take corn meal enough to mix so it will break in pieces 
the size of hickory nuts; spread to dry in the wind. Do 
not let the sun shine on it, nor dry it by the fire as that 
sours it. When thoroughly dry, put into a bag and hang in 
a cool dry place. This receipt will make a gallon and a 
half of good yeast. Eudora. 

Soft Yeast. — The following is a very nice soft yeast 
which keeps a long time in winter, and makes nicer bread 
and in less time nan with dry yeast. For half a gallon, boil 
two large potato's in two quarts of water, with a handful 
of hops tied in a sack. Put a tablespoonful of flour, a tea- 
spoonful each of salt, sugar, and ginger into a crock or pan, 
stir to a paste with coM water, then scald with the potato 
water, adding the potatoes, well mashed. After it has be- 
come lukewarm put in half a pint of yeast; when light, jug 
it up and put it in a cool place, where it will not freeze. 

Potato Ball. — Take one quart of mashed potatoes, 
and one quart of flour, scald with the potato water; 
when cool add one tablespoonful of brown sugar, half a 
tablespoonful of salt, and some good yeast to ferment it. 
Save a cupful of this yeast for next making. Second mak- 
ing: Take two quarts of mashed potatoes, add water until 



— 86 — 

they are much thinner than for the table use (leave out the 
flour); when cool add one tablespoonful of salt, two of 
brown sugar, and the cupful of saved yeast. In an hour or 
so it will be light, then save a cupful for next making. Now 
you have the genuine potato ball, and always proceed ac- 
cording to directions for second making. To what remains 
alter taking out the cupful, add two quarts of warm water 
in the evening, and one or two of hot water in the morning 
when you set the bread, and proceed in the usual manner 
of bread making. The bread rises quickly, and is light 
and sweet. If not successful at first try it again. 

Mrs. J. W. E. 

Good Bread. — Bread, to be really good, should be 
white, spongy, and tough, with a dark red crust that melts 
in the mouth with an indescribable sweetness. To make it 
only two things are necessary; good flour, and good yeast. 
No one can afford to use poor flour, for it absorbs so much 
water, that it will not go half as far as flour of a better 
grade. The next requisite is good, home-made yeast. The 
dry kinds in market are not always reliable, and seldom 
fresh; while yeast is so easily made and so easily kept, that 
it is poor policy to buy it. The following receipt is known 
to be good: 

Take four potatoes, two handfuls of hops one tablespoon- 
ful of ginger, two of salt, half a cupful of sugar, and half a 
cupful of good fresh yeast. Boil the potatoes and hops to- 
gether, and scald half a cupful of flour with the water. As 
soon as sufficiently cold, add the yeast, sugar, salt, and gin- 
ger, and ferment twenty-four hours, and then bottle. It 
will keep six weeks in the hottest weather. Half a cupful 
will make from 4 to 6 loaves. The bread should be set 
over night, and thoroughly kneaded in the morning; the 
longer the better. Bake well, and just beiore taking from 
the oven, wet the tops of the loaves with cold water to in- 
sure that dark red glaze so dear to the good bread lover's 
heart. Never use a particle of butter or lard in bread, for 



— 87 — 

it destroys the crustiness. N. H. 

Another Receipt. — In the evening of the day before 
you wish to bake, take five or six little potatoes for each 
loaf ol bread, wash them clean, and boil with their jackets 
on. When done, mash them jackets and all, and add as 
much water as necessary for the number of loaves you wish 
to make. When cool enough, add one cupful of yeast, a 
little salt, and one cupful of flour; stir well, wrap up warm, 
and set to rise over night. In the morning strain through 
a colander and add enough flour to make a stiff batter, beat 
until smooth; keep warm and in one hour the rising will be 
light as seafoam. Then mix up and manage the same as 
for bread made in the usual way,and you will have bread fit to 
set before a king. In making bread in this way you can 
utilize the little potatoes. There is also something in the 
potato skins that assists in the rising process. 

Another Receipt. — This takes a dozen common sized 
potatoes; pare and cook; when well done mash in the water 
in which they were cooked, add to this one tablespoonful 
of salt, two ot sugar, three of flour, and enough water to 
make two quarts of the yeast. Scald these together and 
run through a colander; when nearly cold, add two cakes 
of dry yeast ("magic " yeast cakes are always good) that 
have been soaked in warm water. Let this stand in a warm 
place until it has risen, then set away in a cool place and 
it will keep until it has been used up. When ready to make 
bread, make a sponge, using two cupfuls of yeast to every 
three loaves of bread, and it will be up in a couple of 
hours; sometimes in less. Eudora. 

Salt-Rising Bread. — Take one teaspoonful of salt and 
one of sugar, dissolve in water enough to make a quart of 
sponge; have the water quite warm; stir it into the flour 
until it is about like yeast sponge; set the vessel containing 
it in another one containing warm water and keep it warm, 
being careful that it does not scald. Set the sponge as 
early in the morning as convenient. When perfectly light 



— 88 — 

make up into quite a soft dough, adding more warm water 
if needed. Add salt and shortening as for yeast bread (if it is 
liked) make out into loaves and place into rather deep pans 
to rise, as this kind of bread needs to be very light before 
baking, or it will be close and stiff when baked. If the 
baking pans are not pretty deep the bread will run over. 
Do not bake it quite as much as yeast bread. Have it done 
without a hard crust, or it will get dry soon. 

Corn Bread No. 1. — Three cupfuls of sweet milk, two 
cupfuls of sour milk, one cupful of molasses, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt, two large teaspoonfuls of soda, four cupfuls of 
meal, two cupfuls of flour. Steam three hours and bake 
three-fourths of an hour. 

Corn Bread No. 2. — Two cupfuls of sour milk or but- 
termilk, two level teaspoonfuls of soda, a little salt, half a 
teacupful of molasses or brown sugar, one teacupful of 
white or brown flour, and corn meal to make a medium 
stiff batter. Steam two hours, and bake twenty minutes. 
The same receipt, using graham flour only, and baked in a 
medium oven about three-fourths of an hour, makes a good 
brown loaf. 

Corn Bread No. 3. — To one pint of sweet milk add one 
well-beaten egg, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, a teaspoonful 
of salt, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, well mixed with one cupful of flour, and 
corn meal enough to make the batter a trifle thicker than 
griddle cake batter. Fill common pie tins half full, and 
bake in a quick oven. 

Corn Bread No. 4. — Take two quarts of Indian meal, 
one teacupful of sugar or molasses, and salt. Scald this 
with boiling water, then set it away to cool; when cool, put 
in a pint of bread rising; that is, hop risings that have been 
set the night before. If it should be sour put in a little soda, 
then thicken this up with flour a little thicker than for johnny 
cake; set where it will keep warm until very light, and bake 
slowly. 



— 89 — 

Corn Bread No. 5. — Some morning when baking, save 
out one and a half cupfuls of sponge, then bring one quart 
of sweet milk to boiling, and stir in enough corn meal to 
make a batter of the consistency of mush. When cool 
enough add the sponge; then add two well-beaten eggs, 
three tablespoonfuls of sugar, two of butter, and enough 
wheat flour to make a soft dough. Let it rise until it is 
light, then work out into small loaves and let it stand again 
until light, but not too light. Bake in a moderate oven 
fifty minutes. 

Graham Bread. — Take three cupfuls sour milk and three 
or four large spoonfuls of thick sour cream, one-half cup- 
ful of corn meal, one half cupful of wheat flour, one-halt 
cupful of molasses, three teaspoonfuls of soda, and a pinch 
of salt; thicken with graham flour and bake one hour. Do 
not stir the batter very stiff. One who does not like this, 
does not know good graham bread when eaten. 

Brown Bread. — To one quart of warm water add one 
cupful of yeast, one-half cupful of sugar, and salt; stir in 
graham flour to make a stiff batter; put in tins, set in a warm 
place to rise and bake in a moderate oven. When done 
wrap in a damp towel till cold. 

Graham Rolls. — Take one pint of graham flour, one of 
white flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one ot salt, 
one tablespoonful of lard, and three-quarters pint of milk; 
sift together the graham flour, flour, salt and powder; rub in 
the lard, cold, mix the whole into a smooth dough, not too 
soft: form into rolls, wash with milk to glaze them and bake 
in hot oven ten or twelve minutes. 

Graham Gems. — Take half a cupful of milk; half cupful 
of sweet cream, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, and graham flour to make a thick 
batter. 

Graham Muffins. — Take one quart of graham flour, 
one tablespoonful of brown sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, 
three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one egg, one pint of 



— 90 — 

milk; sift together the graham, sugar, salt, and powder; add 
the beaten egg and the milk, mix into a batter like pound 
cake, nil the muffin pans, well greased, two-thirds full and 
bake in a hot oven fifteen minutes. 

Oatmeal Muffins. — Take one cupful of oatmeal, one 
and a half pints of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, two tea- 
spoonluls of baking powder, one tablespoonful of lard, two 
eggs, and one pint of milk. Sift together the oatmeal, flour 
salt and powder, rub in lard, cold, add the beaten eggs and 
milk, mix smoothly into a batter rather thinner than for cup 
cake* fill the muffin pans two-thirds full and bake in a hot 
oven fifteen minutes. 

Rye Muffins. — Take a pint of rye flour, one-half pint 
of corn meal, half a pint of flour, one teaspoonful of sugar, 
one teaspoonful of salt, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
1 tablespoonful of lard, 2 eggs and one pint of milk. Sift 
together the rye flour, corn meal, flour, salt and baking 
powder; rub in the lard, cold, add the beaten eggs and milk 
and mix into smooth, rather firm batter. The muffin pans 
must be cold and well greased; fill two-thirds full, and bake 
in a hot oven fifteen minutes. 

Corn Gems. — For these take a pint of corn meal, one 
pint ot flour, one teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, one-third pint each of milk and water, and 
mix into a firm batter, fill well greased cold gem pans two 
thirds full and bake in well heated oven fifteen minutes. 

Corn Muffins. — Take one pint of flour, one of Indian 
meal, one-third cupful of sugar, one teaspoonful of soda, 
two of cream tartar, two eggs, one pint of milk, and one 
tablespoonful of melted butter. Mix the dry ingredients 
together, and sift them, beat the eggs light, add the milk to 
them, stir in the dry ingredients, and bake twenty minutes 
in buttered muffin pans. This makes two dozen muffins. 

Baking Powder. — Take eleven pounds of best cream 
tartar and four pounds of soda. Sift the soda two or three 
times to make it fine, then sift the soda and cream tartar 



— 91 — 

together twice, and put into tight cans so it won't lose 
strength. A finer baking powder never was made. If one 
does not care to make so much, reduce each in proportion 
to the amount wanted. One does not need to use as much 
of this as of other baking powders. Keystone. 

Biscuits. — Mix three teaspoonfuls of baking powder 
thoroughly with two quarts of flour; then rub in half a tea- 
cupful of butter, and mix w r ith sweet milk until just stiff 
enough to handle on the board. Bake in a quick oven. 

Crackers. — The following has been used for thirty 
years : Into fourteen cupfuls of flour sift four teaspoonfuls 
ot cream tartar and two of soda; stir in one cupful of short 
ening (half butter, half lard) with a fork, and add slowly one 
cupful of cold water. Donot put in more water, but knead 
in the flour until the dough is smooth and glossy. One 
can make only half the receipt at one time, as it is all that 
can be baked in a common sized dripping pan at once, and 
be nicely dried off before getting cold. The measure cup 
holds just nine tablespoonfuls of water. It seems to be 
very little wetting, but a few trials will convince any one 
that it is enough for the other ingredients. 

P. C. Cushman. 

Graham Crackers. — Take one quart of best graham 
flour, one tablespoonful of sugar, one-half teaspoonful of 
salt, one-half teaspoonful of baking powder, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, and a little more than one-half pint of 
milk. Sift the dry ingredients together, rub in the butter, 
cold, add the milk, and mix into smooth dough. Flour 
the board, turn out the dough, and knead five minutes. 
Roll out to the thickness of one-quarter inch and cut with 
a knife into small envelope-shaped crackers. Bake in a 
rather quick oven with care (as they burn readily) ten 
minutes. Handle carefully while hot. 

Oat Meal Breakfast Cakes — Mix equal parts of fine 
oat meal and water, pour into a pan about one-third of an 
inch deep and bake half an hour, or until crisp and slightly 



— 92 — 

brown. Or make half an inch thick and bake like johnny 
cake. If the oven is not hot enough, pour it into a frying- 
pan, cover tight and bake on top of the stove, dishing up 
when well browned on the bottom. It is a splendid dish 
for an early breakfast, late supper or when one is in a 
hurry. It is not good cold; if any is left, warm over. 
Eaten with sweet cream, fresh butter or stewed fruit it is 
excellent. 

Waffles. — To make these, take 1 quart of flour, ^ tea- 
spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, 1 large tablespoonful of butter, 2 eggs, 
and 1| pints of milk. Sift the dry ingredients together; 
rub in the butter cold, add the beaten eggs and milk, and 
mix into a smooth batter that will run easily from the 
mouth ol a pitcher. Have the waffle-iron hot, and care- 
fully greased each time; fill it two-thirds full and close it 
up; when brown, turn over. Sift sugar on them; serve hot; 
eat with maple syrup or honey. 

Pancakes. — An excellent way to use up dry pieces of 
bread is to pour hot water over them, and when soft make 
it fine with the hand. To a pint of this mixture add a pint 
of sour milk, two eggs, a pinch of salt, and a teaspoonful ot 
soda. Stir in flour until it is just thick enough to bake 
well. With a reasonably hot griddle, these cakes brown 
nicely, and when served with butter and sugar, or nice 
syrup, make a dish "fit to set before the king." The 
author prefers to soak the bread soft in the sour milk, in- 
stead of water, using the rest of the receipt as it is given. 

Eggless Pancakes. — Take 4 teacupfuls of good rich 
buttermilk, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 2 teaspoonfuls of soda; 
dissolve the soda in a little boiling water; stir enough flour 
in to make a batter a little thicker than egg pancakes. 

" Middling " Pancakes. — Pancakes made of "shorts'' 
or middlings are more wholesome and economical than 
buckwheat. They are made as follows : Mix 1 pint of shorts 
and the same of Hour, a little salt and 1 teaspoonful of soda 



— 93 — 

in good buttermilk until the batter is of the right consistency. 
One can prepare them in five minutes' time. Locia. 

Buckwheat Cakes. — Take 1 quart of buckwheat flour 
and 1 teaspoonful of salt; stir in water to make a thin 
batter; beat thoroughly, and add 4 tablespoonfuls of home- 
brewed yeast. Set the batter in a warm place, and let it 
rise over night. Add 1 teaspoonful of soda in the morning. 
If any cakes are left, cut them up fine, put them back in 
the dough (if any is left) and make more sponge the follow- 
ing night or whenever wanted. 

Corn Griddle Cakes. — For a family of six, take 
almost a half pint of new milk, the evening before, 1 well- 
beaten egg, a little salt, and stir in corn meal, and about a 
handful of wheat flower. Let it stand till morning; just 
before baking add a teaspoonful of soda. Aunt Mat. 



PASTRY HINTS. 

Always sift flour just before it is to be used, otherwise it 
may become lumpy or heavy. Baking powder should be 
thoroughly mixed with the flower in a dry state. Avoid 
using baking powders bought in bulk, as often deleterious 
substances are used. Always avoid powders also, the 
manufacturers of which are continually drawing com- 
parisons. One may be sure that their money goes into 
extensive advertising, instead of excellent quality of ingre- 
dients. There are several excellent powders in the market, 
which are sold upon their merits only. First among them 
we consider the "Forest City" the best, and housekeepers 
may always rely upon its being the very best, for fine cakes 
particularly. Butter and sugar for a cake should always be 
beaten to a cream. Beat the yelks of eggs until one can 



— 94 — 

take up a spoonful, whip the whites to a stiff froth and stir 
them into cake with the flour, the last thing before putting 
into tins. 

Crust for pies, tarts and puddings should be made with 
clean hands. Dip first into hot, then into cold water 
before beginning. If the oven is too cold, the crust will be 
heavy; if too hot it will burn. Bake a small piece of crust 
first to try it. Always make a hole in the top of meat pies 
to let out the gas. 

An ordinary oven requires about one hour to heat evenly 
with a steady heat. The baking is of the greatest impor- 
tance, and should be carefully provided for. Place all the 
necessary ingredients at hand, place the butter where it 
will soften but not melt, have the baking pans ready, place 
a piece of well greased paper (white) in the bottom and 
sides, and use fresh lard for greasing. An earthen dish 
should be used for mixing cake. Break the eggs, separat- 
ing yelks from whites, beat the yelks a little, then the whites 
until a stiff froth is formed. Set the dish in a cool place 
till needed. Beat butter and sugar together until the mass 
is soft and light, then add the yelks, spices or flavoring, 
then the milk; stir well after putting in each ingredient. 
Mix the baking powder in the flour by sifting, next put in 
the whites of eggs, and lastly the flour, then put into the 
oven. Do not move except with greatest care. Should 
the oven be too hot, and the cake incline to burn, set a 
cupful of water into the oven. To ascertain if the cake is 
done, insert a splint or thin knife blade; if no dough ad- 
heres, it is ready to remove from the oven. 

Be sure to use the same sized cup for all measurements. 
Some experience is necessary to insure just the right quan- 
tity of flour for any cake; if too mnch is used the cake will 
be dry, and if too little it will be heavy. If just the right 
quantity it will be light and airy. A little cream of tartar 
in frosting will hasten the hardening process. 

If one should forget the flavoring of a cake, pour a little 



— 95 — 

on the hands and rub on the outside. Nuts used in cake 
are much improved by blanching. This is done by throw- 
ing them into scalding water a few minutes. Almonds have 
so tough skins that they cannot be used in cake without 
blanching. Walnut skins are bitter, and although more 
trouble, blanching must be done, especially if they are put 
into a light-colored cake, without molasses or spice. A 
delicious and easy way to flavor a cake that is to be iced, 
is to grate part of the peel of an o.range or lemon over the 
cake before putting on the icing. 

Sponge Cake. — I want to tell about some new tins I had 
made. One is for baking cookies, the other for various 
purposes. In fact it takes the place of a sheet iron drip- 
per, and is as much superior as a silver spoon is better than 
a brass one. In shape and size it is similar to the iron pan, 
15^ by 10^ inches, and 2\ inches deep. It is made of XX 
tin and wired all around the top, with handles at the ends. 
It will hold three medium sized loaves of bread. It is just 
right for sponge cake made from the following receipt: Two 
eggs, a coffee cupful of granulated sugar, one of thin sweet 
cream, three cupfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, two 
of cream tartar; season with lemon, vanilla, or nutmeg. 
Put all the ingredients together, then beat thoroughly for 
five minutes; pour the mixture into the tin bake pan, and if 
the oven is rightly heated, it will be done in fifteen minutes 
or less, as it bakes very quickly. When done, frost well 
and sprinkle cocoanut over the top. This cake rises so 
light, it is very difficult to bake one in common-sized tins 
without its running over. This was the reason of my order- 
ing the above mentioned tin. I wanted to get one sufficient- 
ly large to hold the cake as it is too good to lose half in the 
oven when baking. Dot. 

Grand Sponge Cake. — Beat 4 eggs and 2 cupfuls of 
sugar, 2 cupfuls of flour, and 2 heaping tcaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder; flavor with lemon. Do not heap or pack the 
flour, but take it just as it is sifted, then stir in two-thirds 



— 96 — 

of a cupful of boiling water and bake. 

Another Sponge Cake. — Take one coffee cup full of 
white sugar, two eggs, a cupful of sweet milk and cream, 
half and half, a pinch of salt, one teaspoonful of cream tar- 
tar, half as much soda and two cupfuls of sifted flour; beat all 
thoroughly, pour into a dripping pan, and bake in a moder- 
ate oven. For frosting use the whites of two fresh-laid eggs, 
a teacupful of powdered sugar, and a cupful of prepared 
cocoanut. Spread the frosting over the cake while hot. 
No cake is easier made, or more sure of being right every 
time; it will keep moist a week or more if shut away from air. 

Quick Sponge Cake. — Take four eggs, one and a half 
cupfuls of granulated sugar, two cupfuls of flour, one heap- 
ing teaspoonful of baking powder, a teaspoonful of extract 
of lemon, a pinch of salt, and three-quarters cupful of boil- 
ing water. Beat the eggs to a froth, add the sugar, then the 
flour, baking powder, and salt, sifted together; mix well 
then add the boiling water and extract. 

Berwick Sponge Cake. — Take six eggs, three cupfuls 
of sugar, four cupfuls of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, one cupful of cold water, a pinch of salt and one 
teaspoonful of extract of lemon. Beat the eggs and sugar 
together five minutes; add the flour, sifted with the salt and 
powder, water and extract; bake in a shallow, square cake- 
pan, in a quick steady oven thirty-five minutes. Frost with 
clear icing. 

Almond Sponge Cake. — Take one and a half cupfuls 
of cut sugar, eight eggs, one and a half cupfuls of flour, half 
a teaspoonful of baking powder and one teaspoonful of ex- 
tract of bitter almonds. Boil the sugar in one and a hilf 
gills of water until on taking some up on the end of a spoon 
handle, it breaks brittle, when at once pour it on the eggs, 
previously whipped ten minutes; continue the whipping 
twenty minutes longer; add the flour sifted with the powder 
and extract. Bake in a well buttered cake mould in a 
rather quick oven thirty minutes. 



— 97 — 

Wedding or Bride's Cake. — Butter, one and a half 
pounds; sugar, one and three quarter pounds, half of which 
is Orleans sugar; eggs well beaten, two pounds; seeded and 
chopped raisins, four pounds; English currants, nicely 
washed and picked out, five pounds; citron cut fine, two 
pounds; sifted flour two pounds, two nutmegs, and as 
much mace in bulk, alcohol one gill to one half pint, in 
which a dozen or fifteen drops of oil of lemon have been 
put Weigh the butter and cut it in pieces, pat where it 
will soften, not melt. Next, stir the butter to a cream, 
then add the sugar, work until white. Next, beat the yelks 
of the eggs, and put them with the sugar and butter. Mean- 
while another person should beat the whites to a stiff froth, 
and put them in. Then add the spices and flour, and last 
of all the fruit, except the citron, which is to be added in 
about three layers, the lower layer about one inch from 
the bottom, the top one an inch from the top and the other 
in the middle. Smooth the top of the cake by dipping a 
spoonful or two of water upon it for that purpose. Bake it 
in a pan about thirteen inches across the top and five and 
a half or six inches deep, (without scallops), and two three- 
quart pans also which it will fill. Bake slowly from three 
to four hours. To ascertain if it is done, try with a broom 
splint, and if no dough adheres, it is done. Line the pans 
with white well-buttered paper. 

Confectioner's Fruit Cake. — One pound of pulver- 
ized sugar, one pound of butter, twelve eggs, one pound of 
flour; brandy and spices. The fruit must consist of raisins, 
currants and citron, all mixed. Use one pound of fruit to 
one and a half of dough. 

Sponge Layer Cake. — Beat three eggs thoroughly, add 
five tablcspoonfuls of cold water, one cupful of sugar, two 
cupfuls of sifted flour, into which mix two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder. Flavor with vanilla, and bake in three 
tins. For filling, make a fine custard and spread while 
warm. 



— 98 — 

White Fruit Cake. — Take one cupful of butter, two 
cupfuls of sugar, one scant cupful of sweet milk, the whites 
of five eggs, one grated cocoanut, one pound of almonds, 
blanched and cut fine; three and one half cupfuls of sifte 1 
flour, and two heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder; flour 
the fruit and add it the last thing. 

Washington Fruit Cake, (1780). — Take two cupfuls 
of butter, three cupfuls of sugar, four cupfuls of flour, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, five eggs, one cupiul of 
milk, one cupful of stoned raisins, one-half cupful of 
currants, one quarter cupful of chopped citron and one 
teaspoonful of extract of nutmeg and cinnamon. Bake in a 
shallow square cake-pan in a steady oven one and one half 
hours. Frost. 

Webster Fruit Cake. — Take one cupful of butter, 
three cupfuls of sugar, two eggs, five cupfuls of flour, one 
teaspoonful of baking powder, two cupfuls of seeded raisins, 
one teaspoonful of extract of bitter almonds, one and one- 
half cupfuls of milk. Rub the butter, sugar and eggs 
smooth, add the flour sifted with the powder, raisins, milk 
and extracts; mix into a medium batter and bake in a 
steady oven forty-five minutes. 

Raisin Cake. — Add to three eggs, three cupfuls of 
brown sugar, one scant cupful of butter, one cupful of cold 
coffee, two and a half teaspoonfuls of soda, three and one- 
half cupfuls of flour, one cupful of raisins, two teaspoonfuls 
of cinnamon, one of cloves and nutmegs. 

Bread Cake. — On baking day, take from the dough, 
after its second rising, two cupfuls of risen dough.- Have 
ready, two cupfuls of white sugar, one cupful of butter 
creamed with the sugar, three eggs, one teaspoonful of soda 
dissolved in hot water, two tablespoonfuls of sweet milk 
(cream is better) half a pound of currants washed and 
dredged in flour, one teaspoonful of nutmeg, and one of 
cloves. Beat the yelks very light; add the creamed butter 
and sugar, the spices, milk, soda and dough. Stir until 



— 99 — 

all are mixed, put in the beaten whites, lastly the fruit. 
Beat hard five minutes. Let it rise twenty minutes, in two 
well-buttered pans; bake half an hour, or until done. 

Bread Cake No. 2. — Take four cupfuls of light dough, 
two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of butter, three eggs, one 
teaspoonful of soda, one nutmeg, and raisins. This makes 
two loaves. 

Raisin Cake, Without Eggs. — To one and one-half 
cupfuls of sugar, add one cupful of sour milk, one-half cup- 
ful of butter, one teaspoonful of soda, one cupful of raisins 
chopped and floured, one teaspoonful of allspice and cinna- 
mon, one-half teaspoonful of cloves, and flour to make a 
medium stiff batter. Bake in a long pan. When done, take 
the white of one egg, beat light, three tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, one-quarter pound of chocolate, grated, and one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. 

Pound Cake. — Break eight eggs into a crock, then add 
one pound of sugar, one-quarter pound of butter, one tea- 
cupful of sour cream (not too rich) one scant teaspoonful 
of soda, a pinch of salt, and one pound of well-sifted flour; 
beat all thoroughly together, and bake in a slow oven one 
hour. Turn a pie-pan over the stem of the cake-pan the 
first half hour, that it may not bake too fast on top. 

Pound Cake No. 2. — Take one and a half cupfuls of 
butter, two cupfuls of sugar, seven eggs, one and a half 
pints of flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder, flavor with 
nutmeg. Rub the butter and sugar to a cieam, add three 
of the eggs, one at a time, and the rest two at a time, beat- 
ing five minutes between each addition; add the flour, sifted 
with the powder; add the extract, and bake m a paper-lined 
cake tin in a steady oven fifty minutes. 

Gold Cake. — Mix three-quarters of a cupful of butter, 
two cupfuls of sugar, the yelks often eggs, one and a half 
pints of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one cup- 
ful of thin cream, one teaspoonful of extract of lemon, and 
nutmeg. Add the yelks three at a time, beating a little 



— 100 — 

after each addition, add the flour sifted with the powder,. 

the thin cream, and extracts; bake in a steady oven fifty 

minutes. 

Gold Cake No. 2. — To two cupfuls of sugar, add one 

cupful of butter, one cupful of sweet milk, four cupfuls of 

flour, the yelks of five eggs, and two teaspoonfuls of baking 

powder. 

Silver Cake. — Use the directions for gold cake, using 

the whites instead of the yelks of eggs. 

Chocolate Cake. — Take two cupfuls of sugar, one of 
sweet milk, two whole eggs (or the whites of four, if you 
wish your cake to be white) two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
four teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and two heaping cup- 
fuls of flour. Sift the flour and powder together. Bake in 
layers, or in a square tin, having the cake about two inches 
thick when done; spread the chocolate over the cake, half 
an inch thick. Or, if you prefer, bake in layers, spreading 
chocolate between, and on top of the cake. 

Chocolate Frosting. — Two cupfuls of crushed sugar, 
with a little water to dissolve it, boil to syrup till it will 
thread fine on the spoon. When the sugar is boiled, put 
into it the whites of two eggs, beating all the time, then put 
in chocolate to taste and color nicely; add a small pinch of 
tartaric acid and a little corn starch. Stir the corn starch 
into the eggs before adding them to the sugar. 

Chocolate Cake No. 2 — Take half a cake (or one- 
quarter pound) of Baker's chocolate, dissolve it in one-half 
cupful of milk, add one cupful, of sugar, and the yelk of one 
egg; place on the stove and stir until well dissolved, then 
stir until cold to prevent lumping; add one teaspoonful of 

vanilla. 

Batter for Cake. — One cupful of sugar, one-half cup- 
ful of butter, two eggs, yelks of two more, one-half cupful of 
milk, three cupfuls of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking- 
powder, flavor to taste. Mix the chocolate and barter to- 
gether thoroughly, and bake in layers, putting jelly or icing, 
between. 



— 101 — 

Chocolate Cake No. 3. — Take one egg, one cupful of 
sugar, one cupful of milk, one tablespoonful of butter, two 
cupfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, and two of cream 
tartar. Bake in three layers; take half a cake of chocolate, 
the white of one egg, and eleven teaspoonfuls of white 
sugar; put all together (after beating the whites of the eggs 
to a stiff froth) and cook until it will harden; put between 
the layers and on top of the cake. 

Chocolate Leopard Cake. — Light Part. — Two eggs, 
one cupful of sugar, one half cupful of butter, one-half cup- 
ful of water, one cupful of flour, one teaspoonful of cream 
tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda. Dark Part — One egg, 
one half cupful of brown sugar, two tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter, two tablespoonfuls of water, two of grated chocolate, 
three-quarters of a cupful of flour, one teaspoonful of cream 
tartar, one-half teaspoonful of sodr,; put in the dough 
alternately, a spoonful of white, then one of dark, till the 
pan is full. It will look like marble cake when done. 

Marble Cake. — Use any white cake receipt, coloring 
half the batter with strawberry color, or red sugar sand 
Sprinkled over a spoonful of dough; alternating the white 
and red, as for any marble cake. For dark and light mar- 
ble cake, use a common cake batter; save out half, into 
which mix spices, then alternate the mixtures when putting 
into the cake pan. 

Marble Cake. — For the white part, take one and one- 
half cupfuls of white sugar, the whites of four eggs, three- 
quarters of a cupful of sweet milk, one-half cupful of butter, 
three cupfuls of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder; 
flavor with lemon. For the dark part, take one and one- 
half cupfuls of dark sugar, the yelks of four eggs, and one 
whole one, one-half cupful of butter, three-quarters of a cup- 
ful of sweet milk, three cupfuls of flour, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one of cloves 
one half a nutmeg. 

Cocoanut Cake. — One cupful of cocoanut, one of but- 



— 102 — 

ter, two of sugar, four and a half of flour, four eggs, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder; flavor with lemon. 

Cocoanut Cake, No. 2, — Take half a cupful of butter, 
two cupfuls of sugar; rub together with the hands till smooth; 
half cupful of milk, two of flour, four eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder. Beat the yelks and whites of eggs sep- 
arately. Bake in three layers; spread* frosting mixed with 
grated cocoanut between. 

Jelly Cake. — Take one and a half cupfuls of sugar, 
butter the size of an egg, half cupful of milk, the .whites of 
four eggs, one and a half cupfuls of flour, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder. Bake in layers. For the frosting take 
the whites of four eggs, and four cuptuls of sugar; pour half 
a pint of boiling water on the sugar, and let it boil until it 
waxes hard by dropping into cold water; pour it on the 
beaten eggs, stirring hard all the time, till it is a perfect 
cream; put in a piece of citric acid as large as a pea; flavor 
while hot, and spread when nearly cold. Place lumps of 
nice jelly on the frosting between the layers. For another 
kind, use this cake receipt for two layers, and put fruit and 
pink sugar into the middle layer. 

Roll Jelly Cake. — Take one and a half cupfuls of 
flour, one cupful of sugar, one teaspoonful of soda, in a 
quarter pint of sour milk, two eggs, yelks and whites beaten 
thoroughly. Mix the sugar, the yelks, the milk, soda and 
flavoring, then stir in the flour, and lastly when the oven 
is just right, and the long tin nicely greased, stir in quickly 
the whites of the eggs and bake. In about fifteen minutes 
it will be ready to turn out on a thick brown paper or towel. 
Spread with jelly and roll. 

Layer Jelly Cake. — Take one cupful of granulated 
sugar, five tablespoonfuls of butter, one egg, one cupful of 
sweet milk, one heaping teaspoonful of cream tartar, one 
level teaspoonful of soda, and two cupfuls of flour. Spread 
jelly between the layers. 

Roll Sponge Cake. — Beat together two eggs, one cup- 



— 103 — 

ful of sugar, two good tablespoonfuls of water, one cupful of 
flour, and two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Bake in a 
dripping pan, in a well heated oven; turn out; spread jelly 
on the rough side and roll up. Myra. 

Martha Washington Jelly Cake. — Take one cupful 
of sugar, one of sweet milk, two of flour, two heaping tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
and one egg. Bake in three layers. Beat the sugar, butter 
and egg to a cream, then add the milk, sift the powder with 
the flour, and add the last. 

Surprise Jelly Cake. — Take one whole egg and the 
yelk of another, two teacupfuls of sifted sugar, three tea- 
cupfuls of sifted flour, measured after sifting with two large 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder stirred in; one cupful of 
sweet milk, one tablespoonful of soft butter; flavor to taste. 
Bake in three large jelly tins. Spread with some tart jelly. 
This makes a large cake and if done with good material 
will surprise the baker. Use B or extra C sugar, which are 
better than granulated. 

Hickorynut Cake — Take one cupful of broken nuts, 
one and a half cupfuls of sugar, half a cupful of butter, two 
cupfuls of flour, three-quarters cupful of milk, two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, and the whites of four eggs well 
beaten; add the hickory-nuts last. 

Hickorynut Cake, No. 2 — Take one-half cupful of 
butter, one and a half cupfuls of sugar, three eggs, two and 
a halt cupfuls ot flour one and a half teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder, half a cupful of milk, and one cupful ot hickory 
nut meats. Bake in a paper lined tin thirty-five minutes. 

Hickorynut Cake, No. 3 — To one cupful of sugar, 
add half a cupful of milk, two cupfuls of flour, one teaspoon- 
ful of cream tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda, one large 
cupful of raisins, one cupful of nuts broken up. and two 
eggs. Any other nuts can be substituted. 

Hickorynut Cake, Without Eggs. — Take one cup- 
ful of white sugar, one of hickorynut meats, half a cupful of 



— 104 — 

butter, one cupful of new milk, fresh, two heaping table- 
spoonfuls of corn starch, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, 
half a teaspoonful of soda, season with lemon, either grated 
rind or good extract, and two cupfuls of flour. Bake in a 
moderate oven. Frost well before cold. 



FANCY CAKES. 

Angel Cake. — By carefully following all details you 
will have a most beautiful cake: —Take the whites of eleven 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth, nine and a quarter ounces of 
sugar, five and three-quarters ounces of flour, one teaspoon- 
ful of cream tartar sifted with the flour, and one teaspoon- 
ful of extract of vanilla. Do not butter the tins. Bake 
forty minutes. Keep a pint dish of hot water in the oven 
while baking. Do not open the oven door for twenty min- 
utes after putting the cake in. Avoid jarring the oven. 
When the forty minutes have passed take out the tin, turn 
bottom side up, and allow the cake to fall out itself. 

Maggie. 

Pan for Angel Cake. — This is a tubed pudding pan, 
eleven inches in diameter on top, eight and a quarter inches 
on bottom, height four and a quarter inches. It has three 
legs at equal distances apart, to project one and a half 
inches above top ol pan, and riveted to the outside. The 
tube is five and an eighth inches long. Use this dish for 
no other purpose. 

Peach Blossom Cake. — Take one cupful of pulverized 
sugar and half a cupful of butter stirred together until it 
looks like thick cream; one teaspoonful of soda dissolved 
in half a teacupful of sweet milk; beat the whites of three 
eggs, and put them in with two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar 
mixed with a teacuplul of flour; stir and add half a tea- 



— 105 — 

spoonful ot corn starch. Flavor strongly with extract of 
peach. Bake in two square tins, in a moderately quick 
oven; when done sandwich with finely grated cocoanut and 
pink sugar. Frost and sprinkle with pink sugar. 

Wild Rose Cake. — Take one and a half cupfuls of but- 
ter, one and a half cupfuls of sugar, the whites of five eggs, 
one and a half pints of flour, one and a half teaspoonluls 
of baking powder, one cupful of milk; flavor with extract 
of rose and strawberry. Bake in two jelly tins one inch 
deep. Sandwich with pink icing, and put the same on top. 
When you have put the last layer of pink icing on top, sift 
very lightly over the top, granulated white sugar. 

Lady Cake. — For this take two-thirds of a cupful of 
butter, three cupfuls of sugar, the whites of eight eggs, one 
pint of flour, one-half teaspoonful of baking powder, one 
cupful of milk, twenty drops of extract of bitter almonds. 
Rub the butter and sugar to a cream, add the flour sifted 
with the powder, milk and extract; mix into a smooth bat- 
ter; then gently mix the whites ot the eggs whipped to a 
dry froth; when thoroughly mixed put into a shallow 
papered cake-pan, and bake carefully forty minutes. When 
•done ice the bottom and sides with wjhite icing. 

Lemon Jelly Cake. — Take three eggs, one cupful of 
white sugar, four tablespoonfuls of butter, four tablcspoon- 
fuls of water, one teaspoonful of soda, two of cream tartar 
and one cupful of flour; beat the eggs thoroughly. Use 
lemon jelly to put between the layers. Take the juice and 
grated peel of one lemon, one cupful of sugar, one egg, 
mix together, steam or cook in a stoneware dish, spread be- 
fore quite cold. 

Orange Cake. — Take one-half cupful of butter, two 
cupfuls of sugar, five eggs, one pint of flour, one and one- 
half teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one teaspoonful of ex- 
tract of orange, and one cupful of milk. Rub the butter 
and sugar to a cream, add the eggs, two at a time, beating 
five minutes between each addition; adJ the flour sifted 



— 106 — 

with the powder, the milk and extract, mix into a fine 
smooth batter, put into a paper lined cake tin, bake in a 
moderate oven thirty minutes. When cool cover the top 
with the following preparation: Whip the whites of three 
eggs to a dry froth, then carefully mix in four cupfuls of 
sugar, the juice, grafed rind, and soft pulp, free of white pith 
and seeds, of two sour oranges. 

Soft Gingerbread. — Put two-thirds of a cupful of but- 
ter, warmed a little, into a bowl, and add one cupful of 
sugar; beat to a cream, then stir into this a cupful of good 
thick buttermilk (sour); add a cupful of New Orleans molas- 
ses and a tablespoonful of ginger; stir in two heaping cup- 
fuls of flour and two well-beaten eggs; lastly, beat in another 
heaping cupful of flour, in which is mixed a teaspoonful of 
soda (three cupfuls of flour in all). Bake at once on two 
round tins in rather quick oven. The cup used holds halt 
a pint, and the eggs are large. Mrs. Voorhees, 

Ginger Cookies. — Take two teacupfuls of New Orleans 
molasses, seven teaspoonfuls of soda dissolved in eight 
tablespoonfuls of boiling water, twenty tablespoonfuls of 
melted lard, two teaspoonfuls of crushed alum, dissolved in 
three tablespoonfuls of hot water, one tablespoonful of 
ginger, and a little salt, stir well; four teaspoonfuls of 
cream tartar mixed thoroughly in a pint of flour. Make 
the dough soft as can be rolled; cut in round cakes and 
bake in a quick oven. All ginger cakes should be rubbed 
with yelk of egg before putting into the oven. 

Molasses Cookies. — Take a teacup, put in one tea- 
spoonful of soda, one of ginger, three tablespoonfuls of hot 
water, four of melted shortening, then fill up with New 
Orleans molasses. One can use coffee in place of hot 
water; it will make them richer yellow. 

Ginger Snaps. — Mix one pint of molasses, one cupfu. of 
sugar, one cupful of lard, and boil fifteen minutes; when 
cool, add one tablespoonful of ginger, one teaspoonful of 
soda, and flour to roll; roll very thin and bake in a hot oven. 
This receipt will make 269 cookies. Alice. 



— 107 — 

Ginger Snaps. — Take one cupful of molasses, one of 
sugar, one of shortening, one-half cupful of made coffee, one 
teaspoonful of ginger, and two of soda; mix stiff, roll thin 
and bake in a quick oven. Aunt Midget. 

Cookies. — Mix one cupful of butter, two of sugar, one 
egg, four tablespoonfuls of milk, one teaspoonful ot soda, 
and flour enough to roll well. 

Excellent Cookies. — Mix half a cupful of butter, one 
cupful of sweet cream, one and one-half of white sugar, 
one egg, three teaspoonfuls baking powder, a little salt, and 
flour according to judgment; roll thin and sprinkle with 
granulated sugar. 

Eggless Cookies. — Mix one cupful of sour cream, one 
cupful of sugar, one level teaspoonful of soda, caraway 
seed or any other flavor, and flour to roll rather stiff. 

Eva. 

Raised Doughnuts. — Set a sponge in the middle of 
the afternoon for frying next morning. Take one quart of 
water, one cupful or one cake of yeast; let it rise until very 
light (about five hours); add one coffee cupful of lard or 
butter, two cupfuls of white sugar, three large mashed pota- 
toes, and a small nutmeg. Mix thoroughly, and let stand 
over night. In the morning shape and fry. Lay enough 
for one frying in a floured plate and set into the oven to 
warm. When they are put in to fry, set more in the oven. 

Doughnuts. — Mix well one-third of a cupful ot butter, 
one of sugar, one-half of buttermilk, one teaspoonful of 
soda, one egg, and flour to roll well; cut out and fry in 
boiling lard. 

Fried Cakes. — Take two eggs, well-beaten, one cupful 
of sugar, one of sweet milk, three tablespoonfuls ot melted 
butter, a pinch of salt, two teaspoonfuls (heaped) of baking 
powder, stirred into one pint of flour. 

Finger Cakes. — These are fried without sugar. Take 
two eggs, well-beaten, lard the size of two eggs; one small 
teacupful of water, mix with flour as thick as possible, and 



— 108 — 

roll out thin; cut into squares, then cut the squares into 
strips like fingers (do not cut quite off at ends), twist the 
fingers and pinch two together, so it will be somewhat in 
the shape of a hand; drop into hot lard and fry. They are 
of a delicate color and delicious. 

Fritters. — Beat six eggs, then add three-quarters of a 
cupful of sweet milk, a little salt, three tablespoonluls oi 
flour; stir well, drop from a spoon into hot lard, and 
sprinkle with powdered sugar when taken out. Serve hot. 



ICING FOR CAKE. 

Boiled Icing. — Take one cupful of white sugar, two 
tablespoonfuls of water, put into a pan, set on the stove and 
let it boil until it hardens in cold water, or threads from 
the spoon. Do not stir it while boiling. Have the white 
of one e<rg beaten to a stiff froth; pour the boiling syrup 
on it, slowly at first, and faster at last, till it is all used up. 
Do not stop beating from the time you commence until it 
is almost cold; the harder the better. E. C. H. 

Clear Icing. — Put one cupful of sugar into a bowl, with 
a tablespoonful of lemon juice and the whites of two eggs. 
Mix together smooth and pour over the cake; if the cake is 
not hot enough to dry it, place it in a moderately warm 
oven a few minutes, leaving the door open. 

White Icing. — Take the whites of four eggs, one and a 
half pounds of white sugar dust, one-halt of a teaspoonful 
of acetic acid (or the juice of half a lemon), one-quarter 
ounce of extract of rose. Place the whites with the sugar 
in a bowl with the cream tartar and extract. Beat with a 
wooden spoon until on letting some run from the spoon, it 
maintains the thread-like appearance for several minutes, 
when it is ready for use. 



— 109 — 
PUDDINGS. 

Boiling a Pudding. — Dip the bag into hot water, and 
rub the inside with flour before putting in the pudding. 
When done, dip the bag into cold water and the pudding 
will slip out easily. Always put a plate on the bottom of 
the kettle to prevent the pudding from burning. 

To Steam a Pudding. — Put it into a tin or earthen 
vessel, tie a cloth over the top and set it into a steamer. 
Cover the steamer closely; allow a little longer time than 
you do for boiling. 

Corn Meal Pudding. — Take two quarts of sweet milk, 
heat almost to boiling; remove it from the fire, and stir in 
two teacupfuls of sifted corn meal, a heaping teaspoonful 
of cinnamon, one cupful of molasses, one cupful of sugar, 
an even teaspoonful of salt, and four well beaten eggs. 
Cover whatever you bake it in, and bake in a moderate 
oven four or five hours. Serve with sweetened cream. 
Set your pan on an iron ring, or something to raise it from 
the bottom of the oven, else the bottom of the pudding 
will be burned before the rest is done. 

Fanny Field. 

Baked Indian Pudding. — Boil three pints of sweet 
milk, and while hot, stir into it one pint of yellow corn 
meal, one teacupful of sugor, one heaping teaspoonful of 
allspice, half a teaspoonful of ginger, and half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt. Thin the pudding with cold milk to the con- 
sistency of thick cream. Have ready a buttered pudding 
dish, or crock, pour the pudding into it and strew bits of 
butter over the top. Bake this pudding three hours. It is 
important that it be baked the full time, to make it jelly. 
This is an old receipt which was in use during old-time 
training days, and used by one family fifty years. 

Suet Pudding. — Take one cupful of butter, one cup- 
ful of sugar, half a cupful of molasses, one and a half cup- 
fuls of milk, half a cupful of cream; one cupful of chopped 



— 110 — 

suet, one cupful of raisins and currants chopped fine, half a 
cupful of candied oranges, or citron, four e'ggs well beaten, 
two grated nutmegs, one teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, 
half a teaspoonful of ground cloves, and two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, adding one teaspoonful of soda with the 
flour to sweeten the molasses. Beat the butter and sugar 
to a cream, and add flour enough to make a good medium 
batter. Steam in a two quart basin three and a half or four 
hours. 

Sauce. — Use a cupful of butter and one of sugar, stirred 
to a cream; one pint of boiling water, two teaspoonfuls of 
corn starch, and a little vinegar; flavor with cinnamon, nut- 
meg or lemon. Cut the pudding into slices, and pour the 
sauce over while hot. 

Suet Pudding, No. 2. — Take one cupful of sweet milk, 
one of chopped suet, two-thirds of a cupful of molasses or 
sugar, one cupful of currants and raisins mixed, one-half 
cupful of citron, the same of sweet cream, two eggs, three 
cupfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder, and 
add one teaspoonful of soda, for the molasses. Steam two 
hours, or bake slowly three quarters of an hour. 

English Plum Pudding. — Take two cupfuls each of 
stoned raisins, currants (washed and picked), beef suet, 
chopped fine, and coffee sugar, three cupfuls of grated muf- 
fins or bread, eight eggs, one cupful each of chopped citron 
and almonds, blanched by pouring boiling water over them 
so the skins will slip off, one lemon peel and a large pinch 
of salt. Mix all these ingredients in a large bowl, put into 
a well buttered mould; set into a sauce pan with boiling 
water to reach two-thirds up its sides. Steam thus five 
hours, and turn it out carefully on a dish. Serve with 
brandy poured over it, and brandy sauce m a bowl. When 
about to serve on the table set the brandy on tire. 

Fruit Pudding. — To a pint of fruit (fresh or dried), 
take a pint of flour, half a teacupful of sugar, one cupful oi 
sweet cream, one egg, one teaspoonful of baking powder, 



— Ill — 

and a little salt. Put the fruit into a tin dish; spread the 
batter over the fruit and put into the oven to bake. Eat it 
warm with sweet cream. Dried fruit should be stewed be- 
fore using. 

Orange Pudding. — Mix the yelks of three eggs, one 
tablespoonful of corn starch, one cupful of sugar, one pint 
of sweet milk, and boil two or three minutes. Slice five 
oranges into a vegetable dish, with sugar sprinkled over 
each layer. Pour the custard over the oranges while hot. 
Make a meringue ot the whites of eggs with two tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar. Set into the oven a few minutes. 

Delicate Apple Pudding. — Mix two tablespoonfuls of 
arrowroot into a pint of cream, with two large tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, and a little salt. Let this boil gently for five 
minutes, stirring all the time. Have some highly flavored 
tart apples cut into thin slices, with sugar sifted over the 
layers, small bits of butter between them, and a little nut- 
meg or cinnamon. Pour the cream over them, letting it 
stand a few minutes then put in the oven and bake about 
half an hour. Cover with a meringue of the whites of two 
eggs, two tablespoonfuls of white sugar beaten very light 
and flavored with lemon. It is very nice without the mer- 
ingue. 

Corn Pudding. — Select twelve ears of corn having the 
tops of ihe grains cut off, and the remainder scraped out, 
(or grate the corn off), to this add three eggs, three cupfuls 
of milk, one iron spoonful of flour, butter of the size of an 
egg, salt and pepper; put into a three-pint or two quart 
pudding dish, or tin pan; and bake about one hour. 

Fruit Pudding. — Prepare dough as for short cake; 
divide into halves, roll out and cover the plate, then fill 
thickly with the fruit. If canned fruit is used, such as 
cherries or strawberries, save out the juice. Roll ou f the 
dough for the top, cutting holes for the escape of steam; 
cover and place in a steamer. It will be done in half an 



— 112 — 

hour. Use cream and sugar for sauce, or the juice prev- 
iously saved. 

Mountain Dew Pudding. — Mix three crackers, rolled, 
one pint of milk, the yelks of two eggs and a small piece 
of butter. Bake half an hour, then beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth, add one cupful of sugar, put it on the 
top and bake fifteen minutes. 

Rolled Pudding. — Make a nice crust as for pies; take 
any kind of fruit; roll crust out long on the moulding board 
and about ten inches wide, spread the fruit on the crust r 
and commence at one end and roll over, until it is all roll- 
ed up. If you like it boiled, sew it up in a clean cloth and 
boil one hour. It is best when baked one hour. 

Sauce. — Take one egg, one tablespoonful of butter,, 
three of sugar, and two of flour; beat the egg well, then add 
the sugar, flour, and outter; when all are beaten up and no 
lumps are left, pour over it one pint ot boiling water. Add 
lemon, or nutmeg to taste. 

Steamed Pudding. — Take one cupful of molasses, one 
cupful of sweet milk, one cupful of chopped suet or half a 
cupful of butter; one cupful of raisins, or dried berries, 
three cupfuls of flour, two teaspoonfuls of soda, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, and half a teaspooniul of different kinds 
of spices. Steam two and a half hours. Eat warm with 
sauce. 

Graham Pudding. — One and one-half cupfuls of 
graham flour, one-half cupful of molasses, one quarter 
cupful of butter, one-half cupful of sweet milk, one egg, 
one teaspoonful of soda, one-half cupful of currants, one- 
half cupful of raisins, a pinch of salt and a little spice. 
Steam two and a half or three hours, and serve with sour 
sauce. Eva. 

Rice Pudding, No. 1. — To half a cupful of rice, add 
one and one-half pints of milk, half a cupful ot sugar, a 
large pinch of salt, and one tablespoonful of lemon rind 
chopped fine. Put the rice, washed and picked, sugar, salt 



— 113 — 

and milk into a quart pudding dish; bake in moderate 
oven two hours, stirring frequently the first one and a quar- 
ter hours, then finish cooking undisturbed. Eat cold with 
cream. 

Rice Pudding No. 2. — Take a cupful of rice, one quart 
of milk, four eggs, one tablespoonful of butter, one cupful of 
sugar, and a pinch of salt. Boil the rice in one pint of 
milk until tender, then remove from fire; add the eggs, 
sugar, salt and milk, beaten together, mix, pour into pud- 
ding dish; break the butter in small pieces over the top and 
bake in a steady oven thirty minutes. 

Plain Boiled Pudding. — To one cupful of loppered 
milk or cream, add half a cupful of molasses, one-half cup- 
ful of butter, melted, two and one-half cupfuls of flour, two 
even teaspoonfuls of soda dissolved in hot water, and a 
little salt. Mix the molasses and butter together, and beat 
until very light. Stir in the cream, or milk, and salt, make 
a hole in the flour and pour in the mixture. Stir down the 
flour gradually until it is a smooth batter. Beat in the 
soda water thoroughly, and boil at once in a buttered 
mould, leaving room to swell. Eat hot with a good sauce. 

Boiled Lemon Pudding. — To two cupfuls of dried 
breadcrumbs, add one cupful of powdered beef suet, four 
tablespoonfuls of prepared flour, one-half cupful ot sugar, 
one large lemon, all the juice and half the peel, four eggs, 
whipped light, and one large cupful of milk. Soak the 
bread crumbs in the milk, add the suet, beat eggs and sugar 
together, and these well into the bread. To these add the 
lemon, lastly the flour, with as few strokes as will suffice to 
mix all into a thick batter. Boil three hours in a buttered 
mould. Eat hot with wine sauce. 

"Nigger Head" Pudding. — Take three cupfuls of flour, 
three eggs, one cupful of raisins, two cupfuls of currants, 
half a cupful of butter, one cupful of sweet cream, three 
teaspoonfuls ot baking powder, one teaspoonful each ot 
cinnamon, cloves and allspice, one-half cupful of sugar, 



— 114 — 

and one-half cupful of molasses. Steam three hours. 
Serve with any rich sauce. 

Sago Pudding. — For one quart of milk take lour table- 
spoonfuls of sago, boiled in the milk until soft; set the dish 
into a kettle of hot water and let the sago swell gradually. 
Beat three eggs and stir into the milk and sago, adding 
salt and sugar to taste. Put into the oven and bake very 
lightly. Sauce. — Use two-thirds of a cupful of butter, 
beaten to a cream. Stir in sugar till quite thick. To a 
cup of boiling water, add cornstarch mixed with cold water, 
until it is of the consistency of thin starch; mix this with 
the butter and sugar, pour half of it over the pudding while 
warm, and the other half just before serving, after adding 
one teaspoonful of any desired flavor. 

Tapioca Pudding. — One cupful of tapioca, soaked in 
one quart of cold water over night, one cupful of sugar, 
one and one-half pints of milk, and four eggs. Beat all to- 
gether, and pour into a buttered mould with bits of butter 
on the top; bake in a steady oven thirty minutes. Use the 
sago sauce. 

Tapioca Snow Pudding. — Take three tablespoonfuls of 
tapioca, soaked over night, add some water, and boil one- 
half hour; add one quart of milk, half cupful of sugar, half 
teaspoonful of salt, the beaten yelks of three eggs, flavor 
with lemon or vanilla. As soon as it thickens like custard, 
remove from the fire, and stir in the whites of three eggs 
beaten stiff; turn into a dish for the table, and set to cool. 

Apple Tapioca Pudding. — Soak one cupful of tapioca 
over night, or put it to soak early in the morning in warm 
water. Fill a pudding dish or crock nearly full of quart- 
ered tart apples. Sprinkle half a cupful of sugar over, then 
the soaked tapioca, bake steadily three-quarters of an hour. 

Boiled Indian Pudding. — Take two cupluls of Indian 
meal, one pint of milk, one cupful of flour, half a cupful 
of suet, half gill of molasses, two cupiuls of dried apples, 
and salt to taste. Boil the milk and pour it scalding over the 



— 115 — 

meal, add the flour, chop the suet fine, soak the apples in a 
little warm water to swell them, and mix them in the 
molasses, add the other ingredients, tie in a pudding cloth, 
allow room to swell one third, and boil or steam five 
hours. 

Cabinet Pudding. — Mix with one-half pound of stale 
sponge cake, one-half cupful of raisins, half a cupful of 
canned peaches, four eggs, and one and one-half pints of 
milk. Butter an oval pudding dish, lay in some of the cake, 
mie third of the raisins, and one third of the peaches; 
make two layers of the remainder of the cake; raisins and 
peaches, cover with a very thin slice of bread, then pour 
over it the milk beaten with the eggs and sugar, set into a 
sauce pan with boiling water two-thirds up the side of the 
mould; steam three quarters of an hour; turn out carefully 
and serve with peach sauce. 

Cottage Pudding. — Add to one cupful of sugar, one 
cupful ot milk, one egg, a lump of butter the size of an 
egg, one pint of flour, salt and two heaping teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder. Sauce. — Mix one cupful of sugar, one egg, 
one teaspoonful of flour, a small piece of butter, then add 
boiling water, and let it come to a boil. Flavor to taste. 

Cup Puddings. — Take one pint of flour, two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, and sweet milk enough to make a 
batter that will drop from a spoon. Grease five cups, put 
in each a spoonful of batter, then some fresh fruit, then, 
more batter. Leave room to rise. Steam half hour; to be 
eaten with cream and sugar. Aunt Midget. 

Minute Pudding. — Put as much milk into the keitle as 
you wish, salt, and when it boils stir very thick with flour. 
Eat with sweetened milk. 

Bread and Butter Pudding. — Take small slices of 
bread, and butter enough to fill a medium sized pudding 
dish, put fruit between the slices, make a custard of one 
pint of milk, four eggs, one large cupful of sugar,, flavor with 
nutmeg, pour over, and bake. 



— 116 — 

Apple Dumplings. — Make nice dough as . for biscuit^ 
wet up with milk; pare good mellow cooking apples, and 
take out the cores; roll out the dough in pieces large 
enough to cover one apple, place in a baking pan and put 
into the oven. When they have baked a little on top, and 
are a little brown, take a cupful of hot sweetened water 
grate a little nutmeg into it, then pour it over the dump- 
lings and bake until done. There will be a nice gravy 
around them. When ready to serve eat with sugar and 
cream Aunt Peggy. 

Apple Pot-Pie. — Make rich biscuit dough; line a baking 
dish; put in a thick layer of apples, sprinkle with sugar, 
cinnamon and a little butter; then another layer of dough, 
then apples, cinnamon and butter, as before, and cover 
like a pie. Put in two or three tablespoonfuls of water 
and bake till done. To be eaten with sweet sauce, or cream 
and sugar. 



PIE MAKING. 



Tor one pie take one double handful of flour, lard a 
little larger than a good-sized egg, a pinch of salt, mix 
thoroughly with the hands; pour cold water on, a little at a 
time, and mix, using just water enough to make it stick to- 
gether and roll nicely. The drier the paste is mixed the 
more nakey and less liable to soak it will be. Roll and 
cover the plate. Trim the edges even with the plate, put 
in the fruit, seasoning, etc., wet the edges of the crust all 
around with cold water, put on the cover, trim the edges, 
pinch down the crust tightly, and wet all around again, to 
keep from boiling out while baking. Always rub a little 
flour on the bottom crust before putting in the filling, it will 
not soak. 



— 117 — 

Mtnce Meat. — Use six pounds of beef, three pounds of 
suet, four pounds of raisins, three pounds of currants, and 
one pound of citron. Boil the beef till very tender, season 
with salt. Peel and chop good tart apples, allow two bowl- 
fuls of apples to one of meat, (meat and suet must be 
chopped very fine). Mix all in a large bowl, sugar and 
spice to suit the taste Add a little molasses and cider, boiled 
or otherwise. Bake one pie, and add more sugar, spices, etc., 
if needed. When just right, pack in a large jar, tie up, and 
it is ready for use at any time. The currants and citron 
can be left out, if not at hand. 

Lemon Pie. — Provide one lemon for two pies; grate the 
peel on a plate, pare nicely so as to leave no white, put 
the crust on a tin, spread one cupful of sugar over the 
bottom, cut the lemon over the sugar, mix three teaspoon- 
fuls of flour, with enough water to pour easily all over the 
sugar and lemon, sprinkle on some of the grated rind, put 
on the top crust and bake. 

Lemon* Pie No. 2. — For three pies take one lemon, one 
and one-half cupfuls of sugar, two eggs, two cupfuls of 
water, four tablespoonfuls of flour, a bit ot good butter in 
each pie, and cover with a crust. 

Lemon Pie No. 3. — One large sour apple, one lemon 
grated, one and a half cupfuls of sugar, and three eggs, 
(reserve the whites of two eggs for the top), half a tea- 
spoonful of tartaric acid, and one teaspoonful of butter. 
Bake with a tender crust. Make a meringue for the top. 

Lemon Custard Pie. — Moisten a heaping tablespoonful 
of corn starch with a little cold water, then add a cupful 
of boiling water, stir over the fire till it boils and cooks the 
corn starch, say two or three minutes; add one teaspoon- 
ful of butter, and one cupful of sugar; take off the fire, 
and, when slightly cooled, add an egg well beaten, and the 
juice and grated rind of a fresh lemon. Bake with one 
crust. Make a meringue for the top. 



— 118 — 

Crust for Berry Pie. — Take three cupfuls of flour, 
one cupful of butter or lard, or half a cupful of each; a 
level teaspoonful of baking powder, a pinch of salt, if lard 
is used, ancLone cupful of cold water. Mix the flour, salt 
and baking powder, rub in the butter or lard cold, then add 
the water. 

Blackberry Pie. — Line the plate with crust, prick it 
with a fork to prevent its baking out of shape; cut out a 
top crust somewhat larger than the other; put it over the 
other, pressing it tightly at the edge, prick and bake. When 
done remove the top crust carefully, fill the lower crust with 
berries, sugar and spice to taste, cover with the top crust 
and return to the oven just long enough for the fruit to 
steam through. Berry pies made in this way are much 
better, more wholesome, and retain more of the natural 
taste of the berries than when crust and berries are baked 
together. 

Apple Pie. — Take the parings and cores of the apples, 
put them over the fire, with sufficient water to cover them, 
add a little cinnamon and mace, let them stew until very 
soft, then take from the fire, let the syrup drain from them, 
and stir in half a glass of quince jelly. Line a deep dish 
with a nice paste and plenty of tart apples, with a generous 
allowance o» sugar and grated lemon peel, then pour over 
the syrup, cover with an upper crust and bake slowly. 

Apple Pie No. 2. — Fill a pie plate or tin with nice cook- 
ing apples, adding water enough to cook, cover with a good 
rich crust, a trifle thicker than for ordinary pie. Bake and 
turn bottom side up on a large plate, and season with but- 
ter and sugar (maple is best) and cream. It is best when 
warm. 

Custard Pie. — Beat three eggs until very light and 
frothy, then add one pint of milk, half a cupful of sugar, 
and a pinch of salt. Flavor with nutmeg or lemon. Line 
a pie plate with crust, put in the custard, and bake in a 
moderately hot oven. Be careful not to bake too long, for 



— 119 — 

if overdone the custard will whey. If you use brown sugar, 
use a little more than half a cupful. Fanny Field. 

Peach Pie. — Peel, stone and slice the peaches. Line a 
pie plate with crust and lay in the fruit, sprinkling sugar 
liberally over them in proportion to their sweetness. 
Allow three peach kernels chopped fine to each pie; pour 
in a very little water and bake with an upper crust, or with 
bars of paste across the top. 

Corn Starch Cream Pie. — Take one pint of milk, 
scalded, two tablespoonfuls of corn starch, three table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, the yelks of two eggs. Wet the starch 
with a little cold milk. Beat the eggs and sugar until light 
and stir the whole into the scalded milk. Flavor with two 
teaspoonfuls of lemon. Line a pie plate with pie crust and 
bake. Fill with the cream and cover it with frosting made 
of the whites of the two eggs beaten with two tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar. Set into the oven a few minutes to stiffen. 

Cocoanut Pie. — Take half a cupful of sugar, half a 
cupful of flour, and one egg; beat the egg, stir in the sugar 
and flour, then stir in half a pint of boiling milk, and two 
tablespoonfuls of cocoanut. Frost the top, and sprinkle 
thickly with cocoanut. 

Pumpkin Pie. — Take a large-sized pumpkin, firm, of 
deep color, wash and boil with the skin on; when thorough- 
ly cooked pass through a sieve; clearing it of all lumps, 
etc. Take one cupful of brown sugar, one cupful of 
molasses, and mix well together. Beat the whites and 
yelks of four eggs well together, and mix with the pumpkin 
thoroughly, then add the molasses and sugar, a pmch of 
salt, four teaspoonfuls of best ginger and one teaspoonful 
of ground cinnamon. Take one quart of milk and mix all 
together. This is intended to make six pies. Should the 
pumpkin not be a large one, use less milk so as not to get 
it too thin. Bake in a deep plate lined with plain pastry. 

Pumpkin Pie No. 2. — One quart of sifted pumpkin, four 
tablespoonfuls of sugar four tablespoonfuls ot flour ; one 



— 120 — 

egg, £nd one quart of good sweet milk. This will make 
four pies. Bake thoroughly. 

Cherry Pie. — Three cupfuls of cherries, stemmed and 
stoned, and one cupful of sugar. Line a plate with paste, 
wet the edges, add the cherries and sugar, sprinkle over it a 
little flour,cover and bake in a steady quick oven, twenty-five 
minutes. 

Cranberry Pie. — Three cupfuls of cranberries stewed 
with one and a half cupfuls of sugar, and strained. Line 
a pie tin with a paste, put in the jam, wash the edges, lay 
three narrow bars across, fasten at edge, then lay three 
more across, forming diamond-shaped spaces; lay a rim 
around and bake in a quick oven, till the paste is cooked. 



THE LAUNDRY. 

Soft Soap. — I put up my leach as early in spring as 
practicable and run off the lye; I put the soap grease into 
empty lard barrels; pour the lye, as it runs from the leach, 
over the grease, stirring frequently, until the whole is incor- 
porated. I save out a quantity of the strongest lye, per- 
haps fifteen or twenty gallons, to use when boiling the 
soap. From the time I make the lye until I make the soap, 
several weeks may elapse; meanwhile I frequently stir the 
grease, giving the lye time to cut it and thus shorten the 
process. I use two large kettles which can be raised or 
lowered, thus regulating the boiling. I fill the kettles half 
full of the mingled lye and grease, and bring to a boil, 
then test it by dipping out with a long handled spoon, say 
four spoonfuls, adding a spoonful of cold water; if it 
thickens in cooling and looks like nice soap, it is ready to 
come off, and will stand twenty per cent, of water. If the 
addition of water makes it sloppy, it is too weak. Then I 



— 121 — 

add of my strong lye and boil until the desired result can 
be obtained. I pour from the kettle into the barrel, through 
a coarse sieve, which strains out all bits of grease, uncooked 
meat and bones. Then I add the twenty per cent of water 
and stir well through. In this way I have, unaided, with 
two kettles, made in one day, as much as 100 gallons of 
choice soap, worth twenty-five cents a gallon, cleaned up 
the kettles and put everything away. I arrange to have 
several pailfuls of strong lye left which I put into a very 
large stone jar with a close-fitting lid, and set in the cellar, 
into which all the soap grease of the summer is put, and 
frequently stirred, to prevent flies and worms from doing 
their destructive work. J. M. H. 

Hard Soap. — Take six and a half pounds of clean grease, 
(lard or tallow) and melt in an ordinary pan or kettle. Set 
it aside and let it cool till lukewarm. While the melted 
grease is cooling, take one can of Tomson's Red Seal lye 
or potash and dissolve the contents in two and one-halt 
pints of cold water in an earthen or iron vessel. When the 
potash is at about summer temperature, pour it slowly into 
the grease; stir until the grease and potash are thoroughly 
combined (but not too long or they will separated, then 
pour into a mould or wooden box, cover it up and set in a 
warm place for a day or so, when it can be cut in any desired 
shape. 

Toilet Soap. — Dissolve one can of concentrated lye 
and one ounce of borax each in a quart of warm water (do 
not boil). When thoroughly dissolved, warm and stir 
together with five pounds of melted grease. Add two table- 
spoonfuls of ammonia and perfume with anything desired. 
Stir until commencing to grain, then pour into moulds 
This must stand several days before it is ready for use. Ai 
first it will smell quite strongly of ammonia, but this will 
wear away in a short time J. B. Richards. 

Washing Fluid. — Take one pound of sal soda and one- 
half pound of unslaked lime, put them in a gallon of water, 



— 122 — 

boil twenty minutes, let it stand until cool, then drain it off 
and put into a jug. Wet the soiled clothes — or soak them 
over night — wring out and rub on plenty of soap in a boiler 
of clothes, well covered with water; add one teacupful of 
the washing fluid, boil one-half hour briskly, then wash 
them through one suds, rinse, and the clothes will look bet- 
ter than by the old way of washing twice before cooling. 

Washing Fluid No. 2. — Take one box of potash, one- 
half ounce of carbonate of ammonia, one-half ounce of salts 
of tartar; put the potash into one gallon of boiling water; 
when cool add the ammonia and salts of tartar. When 
cold put into a jug and cork. On washing day fill the boiler, 
put in a cupful of the fluid, and put the clothes in, having 
rubbed soap on places most soiled. Put the clothes in 
immediately while the water is cold; let all boil about half 
an hour, wash out and put through two rinse waters, blue- 
ing the last. 

Bleaching Muslin. — For thirty yards of muslin, take 
one pound of chloride of lime, dissolve in two quarts of rain 
water; let the cloth soak over night or enough to get 
thoroughly wet; wring out and put into another tub of very 
warm rain water, in which the lime solution has been poured 
(the hotter the water the better). Let it remain about 
twenty minutes, lifting the cloth up and airing every few' 
minutes. Rinse several times in clear rain water. This is 
much less troublesome than bleaching on the grass, and 
will not injure the cloth in the least if directions are fol- 
lowed closely. 

Iron Rust. — Three cents worth of oxalic acid in one 
pint of soft water is just strong enough to remove iron rust, 
fruit stains and tea stains from white goods without injury 
to the fabric; wet the spots with it and lay in the sunshine. 

Bleaching Flannel. — Wash the flannel, and while wet 
hang it in a barrel over a dish of coals; throw some sul- 
phur on the coals, holding the breath that the sulphur 
fumes may not be inhaled; cover the barrel tightly, and 



— 123 — 

leave for an hour. If, on examination, the articles are not 
found sufficiently bleached, treat them to another sulphur 
hath. 

Several Hints. —The use of ammonia in washing will 
not fade colors, but rather brighten them. To keep 
colored articles from fading, wash, rinse and dry in sun- 
shine as quickly as possible. Do not let the colored 
clothes hang in the sunshine any longer than necessary to 
dry thoroughly. If there are streaks in the white clothes 
that will not rub out, lay them on the grass and let the sun 
and dew take the streaks out. • Table linen and other 
articles liable to be stained, should be carefully examined 
before washing and such spots removed by soaking in 
milk, or dipping into melted tallow. Fruit stains disappear 
when equal parts of kerosene and soda are applied. Cover 
wine discolorations with dampened salt. 

A tablespoonful of black pepper to a pail of water, will 
set the colors of buff or gray prints. 

Mildew can be removed with bar soap and powdered 
chalk Wet the cloth, rub on the mixture, and lay in the 
sunshine. 

Doing up Linen. — A large polishing iron is needed and 
it must be clean, and just hot enough not to 13urn. When 
ironing a shirt, begin at the neck band, then fold the back 
through the middle and iron it, then the sleeves, lastly the 
bosom. Wet the bosom once with a damp cloth, and iron 
hard and briskly with a polishing iron. It must be ironed 
on a bosom board, like collars and cuffs. Iron a collar 
first on the wrong side lightly, then turn and iron hard and 
briskly on the right side until it has a high polish and is 
perfectly dry. Cuffs are ironed likewise. Cambrics should 
always be ironed on the right side to give them a new, 
glossy appearance. Iron calicoes on the wrong side to 
preserve anew fresh look. Isinglass, or rice water, makes 
a delicate starch for lawns or fine muslins. 



— 124 — 
DELICACIES FOR INVALIDS. 

Milk Porridge. — To three pints of milk, or milk and 
water, use two tablespoonfuls of Indian meal or wheat flour, 
or part of each. Boil a cupful of raisins in the milk and a 
stick of cinnamon if liked. Stir into it one dessert- spoonful 
of sea moss or corn starch, and season with salt and sugar 

Oat Meal Gruel. — One small cupful of oat meal, stir 
in cold water and let it stand awhile. Then put into it one 
quart of boiling water and cook for three-quarters of an 
hour Add a little salt, and eat either hot or cold. 

Indian Meal Gruel. — To one quart of water salted a 
little, add two tablespoonfuls of Indian meal. Boil one- 
half hour, then add one teaspoonful of farina, and one well 
beaten egg if desired. 

Beaf Tea. — To one pound of good steak cut rather 
fine, put one quart of cold water and let stand one hour. 
Then put to boil in the same water, and while heating, press 
the iuice from the meat. When it has boiled up once or 
twice add to it one teaspoonful of sea moss or corn starch, 
and a attle salt, and boil five minutes. 

Mutton Broth. — To one pound of meat allow one 
quart of water; add salt and pepper. Boil slowly until in 
pieces; add a little thickening and a glass of milk or wine 

Chicken Broth. — Cut up a medium-sized chicken, and 
crack the bones; put it into a kettle with two quarts of 
cold water, a little salt and a small red pepper pod; let it 
boil until it is in pieces. Strain it off and to the two 
quarts add one tablespoonful of farina and boil ten minutes. 
Add, it you wish, a little rice, either before or after it is 
strained. 

Cream Toast. — Toast the bread quickly, but do not 
burn it. Have ready a cupful of cream in which has been 
dissolved a little corn str.rch or farina. Add a little salt and 
pour over the bread. 



— 125 — 

Cooling Drinks. — Cranberries cooked and broken, 
currant jelly, tamarinds, or lemons, boiled in water, strained 
and cooled, make pleasant drinks. 

Cough Tea. — To a quart of water put two ounces each 
Oj figs, raisins and licorice. Boil well and add to it one 
dessert-spoonful of sea moss and lemon juice. 

Keeping Wine. — To prevent wine or ale in bottles, used 
a little at a time, from becoming stale and flat, immerse the 
bottle, cork end down, in a dish of water, which prevents 
further entrance of air. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

Grease Spots. — To take grease spots Out of silk, of any 
color that water will not injure, take wheat flour and mix 
with water to a thin batter., spread on the grease spots and 
dry in the sun, or by the fire, until quite dry and crisp, so 
that you can crush it like dry leaves, then brush it off with 
a brush. Do not use an iron. This is much better than 
any chemical preparation and does not leave anything to 
show where the spot was. 

Crystalizing Grasses. — Take two pounds of pulver- 
ized alum and five pints of water, put into an earthen dish, 
and let it come to a boil, stirring it occasionally, to dis- 
solve it. Then set away until you can bear a finger in it. 
Tie the grasses in a bunch and suspend in the solution. 
Keep them m four or five hours, then hang up to drip. 

Silver Plating Fluid. — Put into a glass vessel, one 
ounce of nitrate ot silver, two ounces ot cyanuret of potassa, 
four ounces of prepared Spanish whiting and ten ounces ot 
rain water. Clean the article to be plated, and apply with 
a brush. Finish with a chamois skin, or a burnisher. 



— 126 — 

To Bleach Beeswax. — Mold or roll thin and lay- 
between glass, in the hot sun, turning often till it is white, 
or as light as required. 

Cement for Aquariums. — One part by measure of 
litharge, one of plaster of paris, one of dry, white sand, and 
one-third part of finely powdered rosin. Sift and keep 
tightly corked. When required for use it must be made into 
a putty by mixing in boiled linseed oil, with a little patent 
dryer added. Never use after it has been mixed with the 
oil for more than fifteen hours. This cement will resist the 
action of salt or fresh water. The tank may be used lm 
mediately, but it is best to let it dry three or four hours. 

Paste That Will Keep. — Mix smoothly flour and water 
then pour on boiling water till it is of the proper con- 
sistency. Add a teaspoonful of pulverized alum and a few 
drops of carbolic acid and oil of cloves. Strain through a 
sieve, and put into wide mouthed glass bottles with tight- 
fitting covers. This will always be ready for use. Enough 
can be made at one time to last a year. 



KENSINGTON PAINTING. 

This work is really very simple, and requires no artistic 
training; any one who can use a pen, can master it. The 
art may appropriately be applied to any fabric usually 
decorated with embroidery. The materials necessary are 
paints, pen, palette and knife, turpentine, and megilp foi 
felt. The stamped material and a board on which to tack 
it, must be drawn over a drawing board smoothly and 
tacked securely. Colorado pens No. 1 are best for wide 
daisy strokes, but tor all other work use Colorado pens No. 
2. Tube paints are used just as they come in the tubes. 
Holding the pen bottom up, take up some paint in the hoi- 



— 127 — 

low of the pen, and wipe the back of the pen with a piece 
of cloth. Draw the pen, with back to the material, over the 
outlines first, then fill in the design; shading as the taste 
dictates. Begin at the edge, and paint toward the center. 
To accomplish this, scratch the design over with the pen's 
point or a needle, remembering to make the lines run to 
ward the center. Use the following colors: Medium cin- 
nabar green, Caledonian brown, burnt sienna, orange 
chrome, king's yellow, burnt umber, crimson lake, scarlet 
lake, rose madder, Chinese vermilion, flake white, ivory- 
black, Naples yellow, yellow ochre, Antwerp blue and 
megilp. 

In this kind of painting there are two terms used: "daisy 
strokes" and "rolls." To do the daisy stroke, scoop up the 
paint on the inside of the pen, then touching the point to 
the end of the petal, flatten out the pen a little, and draw 
it down to the centre of the flower, thereby leaving a roll 
of paint on each side of the petal. Rolls are made by 
taking the paint in a little roll on the edge of the pen 
nearer the outer edge of the petal or leaf, and bringing the 
point down on the stamped edge, leaving it there in a roll. 
The paint has to be taken sometimes on the other accord 
ing to the side of the leaf or petal to be rolled. The fol- 
lowing little table, made out by an artist, may help in 
mixing the tints. 

If you mix dark green and purple you obtain bottle 
green. Mix white and medium yellow, and you have buff. 
Mix red, black and blue, and you get dark brown. Mix 
bronze blue and lemon yellow and black, and you have 
dark green. Mix white, medium yellow and black, and 
you have drab. Mix white, lake and lemon yellow, and 
you have flesh tint. Mix lemon yellow and bronze blue, 
and you have grass green. Mix white and black and you 
have gray. White and purple, and you have lavender. Red, 
black and medium yellow, make maroon. Lake and pur- 
ple make magenta. Medium yellow and purple make olive 



-128 — 

green. Medium yellow and red make orange. White, 
ultramarine blue and black make pearl tint. White and 
lake make pink. Ultramarine blue and lake make purple. 
Orange, lake and purple make russet. Medium yellow, 
red and white, make sienna. White and ultramarine blue 
make sky blue. Ultramarine blue, black and white, make 
slate. Vermilion and black make Turkey red. While, 
yellow, red and black make umber. Blue and yellow make 
green. Blue and burnt sienna make green. Green and 
purple make russet. Green and orange make olive. 

Shades for leaves; green No. 1 and king's yellow. 
Green No. 1 and yellow ochre. Green No. 1 and burnt 
sienna, king's yellow and burnt sienna. Blue and yellow, 
ochre for apple leaves. White and rose madder or scarlet 
lake for pink roses and light pinks. Scarlet lake and ver- 
milion for poppies. Shade with crimson lake. King's 
yellow for yellow roses and butter-cups. Crimson lake 
and vermilion for deep red roses and dark pinks. Burnt 
sienna, green and yellow for undersides of rose leaves 
Broken and turned leaves of yellow ochre. 



INDEX. 



Aquarium Cement 120 

Baby, care of 16 

Baking Powder 90 

Beef, dried 63 

Pickled i ... 63 

Bleaching 122 

Bookcase, portable 33 

Bread 86 87 

Biscuits 91 

Corn 88 89 

Crackers 91 

Gems 90 

Graham 89 

Muffins 90 

Pancakes 92 93 

Waffles 92 

Yeast 85 

Cabbage, cooking 70 72 

Cabinet, music 30 

Cakes, angel 104 

Bread 93 99 

Chocolate 100 101 

Cocoanut 101 102 

Cookies 106 107 

Doughnuts 107 

Fritters 108 

Fruit 97 98 

Gingerbread 1 06 

Ginger cookies 106 

Ginger snaps 106 107 

Gold 99 100 

Hickorynut 103 

Jelly 102 103 105 

Lady 105 

Laver 97 

Marble 101 

Orange 105 

Peach Blossom 104 

Pound 99 

Raisin 99 

Silver 100 

Sponge 95 96 102 

Wedding 97 

Wild Rose 105 



Canning, preserving, &c 80 

Citron 81 

Cranberries 81 

Gooseberries 81 

Grapes 81 

Jams 82 83 

Jellies 83 84 

Maple syrup 81 

Quince 82 

Strawberries 81 

Raspberries 82 

Caper Sauce 64 

Carpets, &c 24 

Coloring 27 28 

Dispensary 18 

Childbirth 23 

Cough syrup 22 

Diarrhoea 23 

Earache 22 

Goiter 22 

Headache 23 

Ointment 21 

Salves 21 

Tea, mullein 22 

Vermifuge 23 

Eggs, Cooking 69 70 

Elevator, Kitchen 32 

Fancy work, &c 35 

Carpets 36 

Curtains 35 

• Draperies 37 38 

Etching, on lichens 41 

Lambrequin 39 

Lampshade 38 

Laundry bags 40 

Minor hints 41 

Mirror frame 40 

Scrap bag 38 

Stamping 35 

Table scarf 39 

Umbrella case 40 

Wall paper 36 

Wall pocket 37 

Fish, cooking 55 57 



Grasses, crystallizing 125 

Grease spots 125 

Hams, curing 61 

Headcheese 64 

Household conveniences 29 

Housekeeping, success 11 

Husbands and wives 8 

Icing, for cake 108 

Invalids, delicacies for....l24 125 

Kitchen notes 47 

Knitted articles 43 

Infant's shirt 43 

Purses 45 

Skirt, ladies' 44 

Spread 46 

Tidy 46 

Laundry 120 123 

Linen, doing up 123 

Meats, boiling 57 

Frjiog 58 

Hams, boiling 62 

Pies 68 

Pork, salt 64 

Potpies 68 

Roasting 58 61 

Steaks 58 59 60 

Smse 61 

Vealcutlets 61 

Miscellaneous receipts 125 

Mustard 64 

Omelets 67 

Painting, Kensington 126 

Paste 126 

Pastry hints 93 

Pickles 76-80 

Apple 80 

Catsup 79 

Chili Sauce 79 

Currant 80 

Cucumber 76 

Gooseberries 79 

Hodge Podge 77 

Mangoes 78 

Mixed 78 

Onions 79 

Peppers 77 

Sweet 77 

Tomatoes 76 

Pies 116-120 

Apple 118 

Blackberry 118 

Cocoanut 119 

Corn Starch 119 

Crust 11 > 



Custard 118 

Lemon 117 

Lemon Custard 117 

Mince 117 

Peach 119 

Pumpkin 119 

Potatoes, cooking 72 

Poultry, cooking 66 

Boned 68 

Broiled 67 

Chicken pie 67 

Chicken, roasting 67 

Duck, roasting 66 

Goose, roasting..... 66 

Turkey, roasting 66 

Puddings 109-116 

Apple Ill 

Boiled 113 

Boiling 109 

Bread and butter 115 

Cabinet 115 

Corn 109 111 

Cottage 115 

Cup 115 

Dumplings 116 

Fruit 110 111 

Graham 112 

Indian 109 114 

Lemon 113 

Minute 115 

Mountain Dew 112 

Niggerhead 113 

Orange Ill 

Plum 110 

Pot pie 116 

Rice 112 113 

Rolled 112 

Sago 114 

Steamed 112 

Steaming 109 

Suet 109 110 

Tapioca 114 

Rugs 20 

Salads 70 71 

Sausages 64 

Sick-room hints 18 

Soups and broths 52-54 

Bean 51 

Beef, Topsy's 53 

Milk *. 54 

Noodle 53 

Pepper-pot 53 

Potato 51 

Tomato 54 



Vegetable 53 

Soap, hard 121 

Sou 120 

Toilet 121 

vVashing fluid 121 

Vegetables, cooking 71 

Beans, baked 74 

Beans, string 73 

Cabbage 72 73 

Cauliflower, 72 



Celery 73 

Corn 73 74 

Potatoes 72 

Succotash 73 

Tomatoes, 75 

Vegetable Oysters, 75 

Woman's Mission, 13 

On the farm, 9 

Yeast 85 




