


J:food 



/ 



Cook 




\\(r<T"i^^ K^. V- .^ 



JVuTTibe-r Two. 



Copyrighted by 

C. I. HOOD & CO., 

APOTHECARIES, BARRISTERS- HALU 



LOWELL, MASS. 



\ 



\, 



Three J'ust Claitns, 

I. No department of science has wit- 
nessed greater progress during the past 
twenty-five years than that of obtaining 
correct information of the relative medici- 
nal value of the various articles of the 
vegetable kingdom used for the relief of 
human suffering— their proper, effective 
combination, and the best method of 
securing and preserving their active prin- 
ciples for universal use. These search 
ing investigations have shown that many 
articles which, at that time, were sup- 
posed to possess great curative effects 
are void of any medicinal power what- 
ever. The supreme importance of purify- 
ing the blood has made this subject a field 
of active operations, the results of v;hich 
havo enabled us to present for your use 
and appreciation Jlood's Sarsaparilla, an 
article which, by a combination peculiar 
to itself, is so vastly superior to any simi- 
lar preparation that one has well said: 
" Its health-giving effects upon the blood 
and the entire human organism are as 
much more positive than the remedies of 
a quarter of a century ago, as the steam- 
power of to-day is in .advance of the slow 
and laborious drudgery of years ago." 

II. No other blood-purifier is worthy 
of comparison with Hood's Sarsaparilla. 
By cures wholly unprecedented in the 
history of medicine, it has proven its 
right to the title of " The greatest blood- 
purifier ever discovered." We challenge 
any medicine to show an appreciation at 
home like that which has been poured 
upon Hood's Sarsaparilla. Such results 
only come from real merit, and the steadi- 
ly increasing demand for this article 
unmistakably proves that people appre- 
ciate it. If you are suffering from scrof- 
ula, salt-rheum, or any obnoxious humor, 
Hood's Sarsaparilla is the remedy to 
bring you relief. 

III. A bottle of Hood's Sarsaparilla 
contains three times as much medicine as 
any other for the same money. If you 
are suffering from biliousness, dyspepsia, 
headache or exhaustion, try Hood's Sar- 
saparilla. To prove our claims: 

1. Compare the clean, clear and beauti- 
ful appearance of Hood's Sarsaparilla 
with tlie muddy, gritty make-up of other 
preparations. 



A' 

2. Compare the record of wonderful 
cures, as shovra by the testimonials we 
publish. 

3. Compare the dose and amount 
given in Hood's Sarsaparilla with that 
given by others. A dollar bottle of Hood's 
Sarsaparilla contains an average of more 
than 100 doses. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

A trial will convince the most sceptical 
of the real merit of Hood's Sarsaparilla, 
and enable all to test its wonderful 
power in restoring and invigorating the 
whole system, in renovating and enrich- 
ing the blood, in giving an appetite and 
tone to the stomach, in eradicating and 
curing scrofula, scrofulous humor, scald- 
head, syphilitic affections, cancerous 
humor, ulcers, sores, tumors, ringworms, 
salt-rheum, boils, pimples and humors on 
the face, catarrh, headache, dizziness, 
faintness at the stomach, constipation, 
pains in the back, kidney complaint, 
female weakness, general debility, cos- 
tiveness, biliousness, dyspepsia, indiges- 
tion, lassitude and languor peculiar to 
spring and hot weather, loss of appetite 
and all diseases arising from an impure 
state or low condition of the blood. 
Hood's Sarsaparilla is d-esigned to act 
upon the blood, and through that upon 
all the organs and tissues of the body. 
It has a specific action, also, upon the 
secretions and excretions and assists 
nature to expel from the system all hu- 
mors, impure particles and effete matter 
through the lungs, liver, bowels, kidneys 
and skin. It effectually aids weak, impair- 
ed and debilitated organs, invigorates the 
nervous system, tones and strengthens, 
the digestive organs, and imparts new 
life and energy to all the functions of the 
body. The peculiar point of this medi- 
cine is that it strengthens and builds up 
the system while it eradicates disease. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla is sold by all drug- 
gists. Price, $1.00 a bottle, or six bottles 
for $5.00. 



PREPARED ONLY BY 

C. I. HOOD & CO., Apothecaries, 



Hood's Cook Book N6. 2 



In i^resenting Hood's Cook Book No. 2 we bespeak for it the generous favor 
bestowed upon No. 1. We have spared neither trouble nor expense to secure 
good practical receipts. They cover quite a range of cooking, and with the 
original book make a valuable collection. We ask special attention to the 
candies. 

Hood^s Cook: ^oo?c JSTo. 1 

Is a compilation of choice cooking receipts, contains sixty-four pages- pi-inted 
on tinted paper, with red edges, and is handsomely bound. We have received a 
large number of letters, expatiating on the excellence and value of this book. 
One lady writes: "Such good things can be made at so low cost, that poor and 
rich can afford these delicacies." Another, " I cannot thank you enough for your 
book. It contains the best collection I ever saw." Another, "How you could 
get receipts that make such really nice things at so small cost is my greatest 
wonder." Until the present edition is exhausted, we will send Hood's Cook Book 
No. 1 (sixty-four pages) to any address, on receipt of a Set. stamp. "Wc 
cannot promise beyond this edition. 



JSPumber^ JS, Free. 



This contains entirely different receipts from the No. 1 book, and can bt 
obtained free of any Druggist in New England. Druggists can obtain a limited 
number at any time, by writing us and naming the wholesale druggist in whose 
care we can send the books. 



Hood's Cook Books are copyrighted and published by 

C. I. HOOD & CO,, - - Apothecaries, 

LO^VELL, MASS. 



Clear Soup, 

5 lbs. of clear beef cut from the lower 
part of the round, 5 qts. cold water; cut 
tlie beef into small pieces, add the water 
and let it come to a boil gradually; skim 
carefully and set where it will keep at the 
boiling point 8 or 10 hours; strain and set 
away to cool. In the morning skim off 
all the fat, pour the soup into a kettle, 
being careful to keep back the sediment, 
rut into the soup 1 onion, 1 stalk of cel- 
ery, 2 sprigs of parsley, 2 sprigs of thyme, 
2 of sununer savory, 2 leaves of sage, 2 
bay leaves, 12 pepper corns, 6 whole 
cloves; boil gently 20 minutes, strain 
through a napkin, first seasoning with 
salt and pepper to taste; tie the herbs 
together before putting into the soup. 
Hood's Sarsaparilla purifies the blood. 

Vegetable Soup, 

1 pint of vegetables, including turnip, 
carrot, onion and celery; cut into small 
pieces and boil one hour in water enough 
to cover. Add 1 quart of clear stock, a 
little more salt, boil a few minutes and 
serve. Take Hood's Sarsaparilla now. 

I*ea Soup, 

Pick over 1 pint of split peas; wash and 
soak over night; in the morning turn off 
the water and put them in the soup-pot ; 
add 4 quarts of cold water, i^ lb. of lean 
salt pork, a small piece of celery, onion 
and a little pepper; boil gently four or 
five hours, being careful that it does not 
burn; when cooked it will look smooth 
and rather mealy. Hood's Sarsaparilla 
renovates the system. 

3Iutton Soup, 

Take the water that remains in the 
steamer after the mutton is cooked— see 
steamed leg- of mutton— there should be 
about 3 quarts, add ^2 cup English split 
peas, nicely washed, 1 small onion, and 
cook gently three hours, adding a little 
more water if it cooks away much; before 
taking from the fire add salt and pepper 
to taste. Half a teaspoonful of "Worces- 
tershire Sauce gives a very nice flavor. 
Hood's Sarsaparilla eradicates scrofula. 



JFe Regret 

That limited space has forced us to con- 
dense many testimonials. We trust, how- 
ever, that we have not shorn them of tlie 
elements that will convince our readers 
of the real merit of Hood's Sarsaparilla. 
We honestly believe a trial will satisfy 
every one that our remedy contains an 
unusual amount of medicinal power. 

I*urify the Blood, 

The importance of a proper purification 
of the blood cannot be over-estimated. 
When this vital fluid is contaminated, 
diseases of various kinds present them- 
selves, such as a feeling of general debil- 
ity, weakness, want of appetite, dyspep- 
sia, nervousness, constipation, headache 
and the more positive signs of blood im- 
purities. Scrofula, Salt Eheum, Cancerous 
Humor, Scald Head, Boils, Scrofulous 
Humor, Pain in the Bones, &-c. Just here 
we wish to ask attention to Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla and the wonderful record it has 
made in purifying the blood of hundreds 
of sufferers and restoring them to health. 
We tell you the truth of this remarkable 
medicine and believe it the best combina- 
tion possible to purify, vitalize and enrich 
the blood. 

"I have never found anything that hit 
my wants as Hood's Sarsaparilla. It 
tones up my system, purifies my blood, 
sharpens my appetite, and seems to make 
me over." Picspectfully yours, J. P. 
Thompson, Eegister of Deeds, Middlesex 
Coimty, Lowell, IMass. 

A Big Thing, 

"Mr. Wliitman, Druggist on INIain St., 
informs us that since the first of August, 
he has disposed of five gross of Hood's 
Sarsaparilla and that it has the largest 
sale of any medicine in the market. It is 
also by far the most popular, and in all 
his experience there never came to his 
knowledge a single complaint in regard 
to its curative effects, but its praises are 
on the lips of everybody who uses it. The 
cause of this is undoiibtedly the merit of 
a superior article, for Messrs. C. I. Hood 
& Co., are gentlemen who would feel un- 
pardonable, were they to offer for sale an 



Invest one dollar in Hood's Sarsaparilla; you'' II not regret it 



Potato Soup* 

Take 10 small potatoes, boil and mash; 
to a quart of milk add I/4 lb. of butter, 
pepper and salt to taste; boil, then thicken 
with a tablespoonful of flour, flavor with 
celery; watch carefully that it does not 
get too thick. Hood's Sarsaparilla, the 
best spring medicine. 

Mock JBisqiie Soup, 

Stew a can of tomatoes and strain, add 
a pinch of soda to remove acidity; in 
another saucepan boil 3 pints of milk 
thickened with a tablespoonful of corn 
starch, previously mixed with a little, cold 
milk; add a lump of butter size of an egg, 
salt and pepper to taste; mix with toma- 
toes, let all come to a boil and serve. To 
cure biliousness take Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Fried Bread for Soup, 

Cut bread into little squares about 34 of 
an inch thick; fry in butter, turning the 
pieces so that every side will be bro\Mied. 
Hood's Sarsaparilla builds up the system. 

FisJi Chowder, 

Take either a cod or a haddock, weigh- 
ing about 4 lbs., skin it, cut in small 
pieces and wash in cold water; take a 
scant quarter of a pound of salt pork, cut 
into small pieces and fiy bro^ii in the 
kettle in which the chowder is to be made ; 
for a fish weighing 4 lbs., pare and slice 5 
medium sized potatoes and 1 small onion; 
place a layer of potato and onion in the 
kettle, then a layer of fish, dredge in a 
little salt, pepper and flour; keep putting 
in alternate la*yers of potatoes, fish and 
the seasoning until all is used; add hot 
water enough to cover; cover tight and 
boil gently thirty minutes; add a pint of 
milk and 6 crackers split and dipped in 
cold water, and cook ten minutes longer. 
To sharpen the appetite take Hood's 
Sarsaparilla. 

Clam Chowder, 

Wash the clams thoroughly, cover them 
with boiling water and let them stand ten 
minutes; when they can be easily opened, 
take them from the shell, cut ofE the black 
heads and put the bodies in a clean dish ; 
for a peck of clams use 6 large potatoes. 



article in any respect different from that 
they claim it to be."— A"as/ma {N. H.) 
Telegraph. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla 

Is a carefully prepared extract of the 
best remedies of the vegetable kingdom 
known to medical science as Altera- 
tives, Blood-Purifiers, Diuretics and Ton- 
ics, such as Sarsaparilla, Yellow Dock, 
Stillingia, Dandelion, Juniper Berries, 
Mandrake, Wild Cherry Bark and other 
selected roots, barks and herbs. ^Ye as- 
sure everyone that no article entering 
into the preparation of Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla can possibly do any harm, if taken 
according to our published directions. 
Each dollar bottle contains one hund- 
red (average) doses. Probably never 
in the history of proprietary medicines 
has any article met success at home 
equal to that which has been poured 
upon Hood's Sarsaparilla. Why, such 
has been the success of this article, 
that nearly every family in whole neigh- 
borhoods have been taking it at the same 
time. Every week brings new evidence 
of the wonderful curative properties of 
this medicine. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla is prepared only by 
C. I. Hood & Co., Apothecaries, Lowell, 
]\Iass. Price $1.00. Sold by druggists. 

Spring Hedicine 

Is a necessity, because being " housed 
up" through the winter, breathing the 
impurities in the atmosphere of rooms 
heated by wood or coal and contaminated 
by the gases they throw off, the blood 
being the receptacle of these impurities, 
its vitality is so reduced that it is impos- 
sible to withstand the additional debili- 
tating influence of warm weather; hence 
that spring feeling of languor, lassitude, 
and that low state of the system peculiar 
to the spring months ; all of which can be 
positively overcome by taking Hood's 
Sarsaparilla. 

A gentleman who has been suff- 
ering from the debility and languor 
peculiar to this season, says " Hood's 
Sarsaparilla is putting new life right 
into me. I have gained ten pounds since I 
began to take it." Has taken two borles. 



SoocCs Sarsaparilla works wonders in blood. 



peeled and sliced thin, and half an onion 
cut in small pieces. Cut a quarter of a 
pound of pork into small pieces and f ry 
bro^\^l; put the potatoes and onion into 
the kettle with the pork; with a table- 
spoonful of salt, a little pepper and 14 cup 
of flour shaken over them; strain over this 
4 qts. of the water in Avhich the clams were 
scalded and boil fifteen minutes ; now add 
the clams and 6 crackers split, and cook 
ten minutes longer. Hood's Sarsaparilla 
creates an appetite. 

Hollandaise Sauce, 

Half a teacupful of butter, the juice of 
half a lemon, the yolks of two eggs, a 
speck of Cayenne pepper, half a cupful of 
boiling water, half a teaspoonful of salt; 
beat the butter to a cream, add the yolks 
of eggs one by one, then the the lemon 
juice, pepper and salt, beating all thor- 
oughly; place the bowl in which is the 
mixture in a saucepan of boiling water; 
beat with an egg-beater until it begins to 
thicken, which will be about a minute, 
then add the boiling water, beating all 
the time; stir until it begins to thicken 
like soft custard, stir a few mmutes after 
taking from the fire; be careful not to 
cook it too long. This is very nice with 
baked fish.— il/iss Parloa. Cure Salt 
Eheum, take Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

Butter an oval dish, put in a layer 
of oysters, and dredge in a little salt, 
pepper and butter, then a layer of 
1 oiled cracker; pour over this a few 
i,poonfuls of milk, just enough to moisten 
the cracker, then a layer of oysters with 
salt, pepper and butter; another of 
cracker, with a little more milk, and so 
on until the dish is full; before putting 
into the oven pour a little more milk over 
the top ; bake about half an hour. Diph- 
theritic convalescents should take Hood's 
Sarsaparilla. 

Oyster Hoast, 

Put one quart of oysters in a basin with 
their own liquor and let them boil three 
or four minutes; season with a little salt, 
pepper and a heaping spoonful of butter. 
Serve on buttered toast. Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla vitalizes the blood. 



An alderman of this city says of Hood's 
Sarsaparilla, "It is the strongest Sarsa- 
parilla I ever saw." 

Tlie Seasouo 

Wliy does everybody take a spring 
medicine? For three good reasons, viz: 
T.— Because one bottle of a blood-purifier 
taken at this season will do more good 
tlian two at any other. II.— Because the 
blood is in a more impure condition than 
at any other season. III.— Because the 
system is so weakened by this impure 
state of the blood that it has not sufficient 
vitality to withstand the debilitating 
effects of spring weather. Hence, by 
common consent, people seek relief in 
medicine. The combination of Hood's 
Sarsaparilla commends it to our judg- 
ment as a good spring medicine and blood 
purifier. Such things as Sarsaparillla, 
Yellow Dock, Mandrake, &c., compounded 
by competent druggists like Messrs. Hood 
& Co., warrant us in suggesting that all in 
need of a medicine of this kind give 
Hood's Sarsaparilla a trial. — Boston 
Herald. 



" I consider Hood's Sarsaparilla one of 
the best medicines for early spring, when 
the blood is in a low condition and needs 
cleansing. I have been benefited by its 
use and have recommended it to my 
friends." I remain yours truly, W. H. 
Curtis, Ticket Agent, B. & M. E. R. 
Haverhill, Mass., January 6, 1881. 

*'Wake 'em Up.'' 

Meredith Village, N. H., Jan. 8, 1881. 
Messrs. C. I. Hood & Co., Lowell, Mass. 

Dear Sirs— Last j^ear I was all used up 
and tried various things without benefit. 
Dr. Mason suggested I try Hood's Sar- 
saparilla, which Avas meeting quite a 
sale, and doing sick people good. I took 
a bottle home, and I declare I never sav/ 
anything beat the way it took hold of me 
and lifted me up. I took several bottles 
and it did me more good than all the 
medicine I ever used before. It sharp- 
ened my appetite, gave me strength and 
renewed my lease of life. If people want 
a medicine to go all through 'em, and 



Everybody likes Hood's Sarsaparilla. Try it. 



steamed Oysters, 

Leave a covered dish where it will heat, 
wash and drain the oysters, put them in a 
shallow tin and place it in the steamer, 
cover and leave it over boiling water 
until the oysters are puffed and curled. 
They may he dressed at table when eaten, 
or butter, salt and pepper may be added 
in the kitchen when served in the heated 
dish. Hood's Sarsaparilla enriches the 
blood. 

Broiled Oysters. 

Select good sized oysters, drain off the 
liquor, then roll in fine cracker crumbs, 
place on the broiler and cook over a 
bright fire; when brown take off, add to 
each a little butter; serve hot. Hood's 
Sarsaparilla tones the stomach. 

Roast Beef. 

An onion sliced and put on top of a 
roast while cooking gives a nice flavor. 
Remove the onion before serving. Hood's 
Sarsaparilla restores the system. 

Steamed Leg of Mutton, 

Steam a leg of mutton until tender, then 
place in a roasting-pan, salt and dredge 
well with flour and set in a hot oven until 
nicely browned; tho water that remains 
in the bottom of the steamer may be used 
for soup. See mutton soup. Hood's Sar- 
saparilla cures dyspepsia. 

Baked Ham, 

Take a medium-sized ham and soak 
twenty-four hours in cold water; wipe 
and scrape clean; make rather a stiff 
paste of rye meal and water, cover the 
ham entirely with the paste and bake hi a 
moderate oven six hours. This is much 
nicer than boiled ham. Diphtheritic 
poison in the blood neutralized by Hood's 
Sarsaparilla. 

Apple Fritters, • 

Beat to a froth two eggs, and stir into 
this half a pint of milk, one teaspoonful 
of salt, two cups of flour; pare and core 



wake 'em up, tell them to take Hood's 
Sarsaparilla. Yours, Freeman N. Bixby. 

Biliousness, 

A bitter taste, breath offen&ive, tongue 
coated, sick headache, drowsiness, dizzi- 
ness, loss of appetite. This condition, 
commonly termed biliousness, undoubt- 
edly occurs of tener in the spring than at 
any other season. If this condition is 
allowed to continue imheeded, serious 
consequences may follow. By prompt 
action and mild means a fever may bo 
avoided, or the sowing of seed for a pre- 
mature death may be prevented. Hood's 
Sarsaparilla coiii bines tlie best anti-bil- 
ious remedies of the vegetable kingdom, 
and in such proportion as to derive the 
full medicinal effects with the least dis- 
turbance to the whole system. 

In fact this preparation is so well bal- 
anced in its actions upon the alimentary 
canal, the liver, the kidneys, the stomach, 
the bowels and the circulation of the 
blood, that it brings about a healthy ac- 
tion of the entire human organism, that 
can hardly be credited by those who have 
not seen the remarkable results that have 
followed its use. If the Sarsaparilla does 
not prove sufficiently laxative, take a few 
doses of Hood's Vegetable Pills. It is 
well in all cases of biliousness to take 
these pills in connection with the Sarsar 
parilla for the first ten days. That dull, 
sleepy, sick feeling can be wholly over- 
come by the use of these remedies. Will 
you give them a trial and be yourself 
again? 

Price one dollar, or six bottles for five 
dollars. Prepared only by C. I. Hood & 
Co., Apothecaries, Lowell, Mass. 

* * * * I am subject to severe bilious 
attacks. Last Spring I used Hood's Sar- 
saparilla and was much benefited by it. 
* * * * I think it a very excellent 
medicine, and cheerfully recommend it 
for biliousness and all impurities of the 
blood. Yours truly, Mrs. J. W. Clement, 
Franklin, N. H. 

Sick Headache, 

" Your preparation has worked wonders 
in the case of my wife, who has been 



Only a penny a dose — Hood's Sarsaparilla. 



nice tart apples, cut in slices, dip them in 
tlie batter, being sure to have the apple 
well covered, and fry in boiling lard a deli- 
cate broA\Ti; sprinkle with sugar or dis- 
solve any kind of jelly in a little hot 
water and pour over the fritters. Hood's 
Sarsaparilla rouses the appetite when 
others fail. 

Dressing for Sandwiches, 

One-half lb. of nice butter, two table- 
spoonfuls of mixed mustard, three table- 
spoonfuls of salad oil, a little red or white 
pepper, a little salt, yolk of one egg; rub 
the butter to a cream, add the other in- 
gredients and mix thoroughly, set away 
to cool; spread the bread with this mix- 
ture and put in the ham, chopped fine. 
Cheap— One hundred doses Hood's Sars- 
aparilla one dollar. 

Chicken Croquettes, 

One pound of faiely chopped cooked 
chicken; season watli 1 2 teaspoonfui of 
pepper, 14 tablespoonful of salt, ^2 table- 
spoonful of butter; mix with this 1 egg 
and nearly half a phit of cream, a little 
lemon juice and 14 teaspoonfui of onion 
juice; have the board lightly sprinkled 
with fme cracker crumbs and roll the 
croquettes until they are shaped in the 
form of little cylinders; when they are all 
shaped, beat the eggs light and cover the 
croquettes with it; now have the board 
thickly covered with cracker crmnbs and 
roll the egg-covered croquettes in these; 
fry in a croquette basket in boiling fat 
until a light brown. Instead of cream, 
chicken stock may be used; veal, mutton, 
lamb and turkey may be used. Pleasant 
to take— Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Lyonaise Potatoes, 

One pint of cold boiled potatoes cut into 
small pieces, season with salt and pepper; 
one spoonful of butter, one slice of onion 
cut very fme, one teaspoonfui chopped 
parsley; add parsley to potatoes, fry 
onion broA\'n in the butter, then add potar 
toes and fry; use fork to turn them in- 
stead of knife. A beautiful preparation, 
Hood's Sarsaparilla. 



troubled with sick headache and bilious- 
ness for years. She found that within a 
a week after taking it she felt very much 
better, and is now entirely free from 
those severe headaches." Yours truly, 
Homer B. Nash, Pittsfield, Mass. 



" We feel that we are doing the public a 
favor in calling their attention particu- 
larly to Hood's Sarsaparilla. This is not 
a patent medicine, but is a proprietary 
article possessing real curative proper- 
ties, and its effects upon the Blood are 
very positive. Spring Debility, Bilious- 
ness, Dyspepsia and all troubles caused 
by impure blood readily yield to this ex- 
cellent medicine. We think those who 
give it a trial for that 'out of sorts' 
feeling from which so many suffer and is 
peculiar to this season, will be quite satis- 
fied "vvith the vesixMs.'^— Springfield Re- 
jniblican. 

Diphtheria. 

We cannot speak too strongly of the 
importance of securing the services of the 
best physician at your conunand when- 
ever the symptoms of this disease show 
themselves. Promptness may save the 
life of the patient. The horrible prostra- 
tion and the powerless exhaustion which 
cling to the convalescent, are overcome 
by the wonderful restoring and invigor- 
ating properties of Hood's Sarsaparilla, 
which vitalizes and enriches the blood, 
neutralizes and eradicates the poisoned 
matter from it, giving to the sufferer 
an appetite and the life and vigor of ro- 
bust health. We honestly believe that 
every person recovering from Diphtheria 
would add great stability to their health 
if they would take Hood's Sarsaparilla, 
and thus purify their blood from the kill- 
ing poison which this terrible disease 
always leaves with its victim. 

We refer by permission to Mr. J. K. 
Smith, Lowell, IMass., Mrs. B. M. Pres- 
cott, Franklin, N. H., Mrs. E. F. IMetcalf, 
Winchester, Mass., and many others. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla prepared only by 
C. I. Hood & Co., Apothecaries, Lowell, 
Mass. Price one dollar a bottle, or six 
for five dollars. 



Hood's Sarsaparilla is sold by all Druggists. 



Muffins, 

One pint of milk, piece of butter size of 
an egg, one-lialf cup of yeast, two eggs, 
and flour enougli to nialce a stiff batter ; 
put tlie millc on to boil and put the butter 
into it, when the milk is nearly cool add 
the eggs beaten, the yeast and flour; let 
it rise six hours; bake in muflin rings. 
A reliable medicine— Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Rice Bread, 

Mix well together one pint of .well- 
boiled rice (one pint after it is cooked), 
one-half pint of flour, tlie yolks of six 
eggs, beat the whites to a stiff froth; two 
tablespoonfuls butter, one pint milk, salt, 
mix well together and add the whites of 
eggs last. Bake in shallow tins in a hot 
oven. No mud and grit in Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla. 

Hominy Corn Pone, 

Two teacups of boiled small hominy 
(sometimes called grits), while hot stir in 
a large spoonful of butter; add four eggs 
and one pint of milk, one-half pint yellow 
corn meal ; the batter should be as thick 
as a rich boiled custard, if thicker add a 
little more milk. Bake in a hot oven. 
Avoid syrups and sweets and take Hood's 
Sarsaparilla. 

Saratoga Corn Cake, 

Four eggs, one-half lb. of sugar, mixed 
together with a wire beater; melt one- 
fourth lb. of butter and add to it; one qt. 
of milk, one-half oz. of baking soda (dis- 
solved in the milk) and a little salt; 
add it all to the -first mixture, stir thor- 
oughly, then add one lb. of white corn 
meal, one lb. of flour, one oz. of cream of 
tartar mixed with the flour before adding 
to the other ingredients. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven. A carefully prepared con- 
centrated extract— Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

3IotJier^s Brown Bread, 

Three pints of corn meal, one pint of 
rye meal, one cup of molasses, two cups 
of sour milk, one teaspoonful of soda, one 
quart of warm water, one teaspoonful of 
salt. Bake three hours in a moderate 
oven. A combination peculiar to itself— 
Hood's Sarsaparilla. 



Mills and Stores, 

It will be observed that those persons 
employed in mills and stores, and exclud- 
ed from the light of the sun, breathing an 
atmosphere not always pure, are particu- 
larly subject to a pale, waxy, blanched, 
bloodless countenance, and often suffer 
from extreme weariness, irregular state 
of the bowels, general debility, mental 
depression, loss of sleep and want of 
appetite which would be largely relieved 
by a life of " out-door" exercise; but this 
being out of the question, the next best 
thing is Hood's Sarsaparilla, which sup- 
plies to the blood and to all the fmictions 
of the body a degree of vital force which 
has not been produced by any other medi- 
cme. We write with a degree of positive 
assurance which is warranted by a larg^ 
observation of actual facts that fully justi- 
fy thiSaStatement. This accounts in part 
for the great and growing popularity of 
Hood's Sarsaparilla among the merchants, 
the clerks and the operatives in the mills 
of our city. A physician once said to us— 
" If you could bottle country air and rest, 
your fortune Avould be assured." Of 
course that would be impossible, but we 
have the next thing to it in Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla, a remedy that restores and reno- 
vates every part of the system, vitalizes, 
purifies and enriches the blood, gives 
tone and vigor to the stomach, and im- 
parts new life and energy to all the func- 
tions of the body. Hood's Sarsaparilla is 
sold by all druggists.* Price $1 , or 6 bottles 
for $5. 

A Neiv Beparttire, 

"One good result of the hard times a few 
years ago, was the bringing into life an 
article in proprietary medicine, which gave 
to every purchaser a full equivalent for 
his money. The rule of this class of 
medicines is from 10 to 25 doses for $1, 
the best only reaching 40. Messrs. Hood 
& Co. took a new departure and in the 
article now so well and favorably known 
as Hood's Sarsaparilla, they gave the 
unprecedented quantity of 100 doses for 
%\. These facts commend this remedy to 
the consideration of the sick, also of the 
well, for they are liable to be sick."— 
Boston Weekly Joxirnal. 



An Alderman says Hood's Sarsaparilla is the' strongest. 



Creamy Sauce, 

One-half cup of butter, one cup of pow- 
dered sugar, four tablespoonfuls of cream 
or milk, four tablespoonfuls of wine, or in 
place of wine, one teaspoonful of vanilla 
and three additional leaspoonfuls of milk 
or cream; beat the butter to a cream, add 
sugar gradually, then wine gradually and 
milk gradually. Place the bowl in which 
the sauce has been made in a basin of 
boiling water; stir a few minutes until it 
looks smooth and it is ready to serve. 
[See Sweet Sauce.]— J/ws rarloa. Hood's 
Sarsaparilla— the strongest and best. 

Sweet Sauce, 

Stir to a cream, one cup of butter with 
two of sugar; pour into the Dutter and 
sugar a teacup of boiling water, beat an 
egg light, and mix it gradually with the 
other ingredients before they become hot ; 
nix half a teaspoonful of flour in a little 
cold water, free from lumps, stir it into 
the sauce and beat the Avhole constantly 
until hot enough to thicken; add nutmeg. 
This is proper for all boiled puddings, 
especially berry, and also baked berry 
puddings. Hood's Sarsaparilla makes 
the weak strong. 

Hunter's Pudding, 

1 lb. raisins, l lb. currants, 1 lb. suet, 1 
lb. bread crumbs, 1/2 lb. moist sugar, 8 
eggs, 1 tablespoonful flour, I/4 lb. citron, 
1 glass brandy, 10 drops essence of al- 
monds, 7^ nutmeg, mace and cloves; 
stone and chop tlie raisins, chop the suet 
very finely, and rub the bread until all 
the lumps are well broken; jiound the 
spice to powder, cut the citron into thin 
shreds; mix all these ingredients well to- 
gether, adding the sugar; beat the eggs 
to a strong froth, and as they are beaten, 
drop into them the essence of almonds; 
stir these into the dry ingredients, mix 
well and add the brandy; tie the pudding 
firmly into a buttered cloth, or put into a 
mould and boil or steam it 8 hours. To 
remove humors take Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Ap2)les in Hice. 

Scoop out the cores and pare very 
neatly half a dozen good-sized apples, 



Dyspepsia 

Is occasioned by over-loading the 
stomach, eating indigestible food, or 
other causes too numerous to mention. 
It is manifested by a painful sense of 
fulness after eating, more or less disten- 
sion from wind or gas, heartburn, nausea, 
vomiting, looseness of the bowels or con- 
stipation. Succeeding these sjniptoms 
are loss of appetite, coating of the tongue, 
an unpleasant taste, and nervous irrita- 
bility, great languor and incapacity for 
exertion, accompanied in some cases by 
an almost irresistible drowsiness. If you 
are a sufferer, and have tried everything 
without benefit till your patience and 
faith are both exhausted, do not give up 
till you have given Hood's Sarsaparilla a 
trial. It has brought happiness to many 
a sufferer and you cannot tell that it will 
not to you. It astonishes those who have 
used Hood's Sarsaparilla to see what a 
toning effect it has upon the digestive 
apparatus. It is accomplished by the 
mildest and most direct action upon those 
parts which are exhausted by too much 
labor or too much abuse. It seems to 
throw protection around them for a time 
till its effects upon the general constitu- 
tion can be realized, the whole system 
built up and a permanent cure is accom- 
plished. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla is prepared only by 
C. I. Hood & Co., apothecaries, Lowell, 
Mass. Trice one dollar per bottle, or six 
bottles for five dollars. Sold by druggists. 
Dyspepsia does not get well of itself. 
It requires careful, persistent attention. 



I have suffered constantly from sick 
headache and dyspepsia. Before I had 
taken two bottles of Hood's Sarsaparilla 
I was much better. I am rarely troubled 
with headache now, and my food does 
not distress me as it did. Very truly 
yours, Helen J. Morrill, 133 Cross Street, 
Lowell, Mass. 

* * * * Last December I used Hood's 
Sarsaparilla for dyspepsia and general 
prostration, and received very gratifying 
results. I consider it a valuable remedy 



Hood' s Sarsaparilla eradicates scrofula. 



boil them in thin clarihecl sugar, let them 
imbibe the sugar, and be careful to pre- 
serve their form; make a marmalade with 
some other apples, adding to it four oz, 
of rice, previously boiled in milk, with 
sugar and butter and the yolks of two or 
three eggs; put them into a dish for table ; 
surround it with a border of rice and 
marmalade, and bake it. Worthy your 
confidence— Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Birds' Nest Pudding. 

Take eight or ten good flavored apples, 
pare and core, leaving them whole; place 
in a pudding-dish, fill the cores with 
sugar and a little grated nutmeg; then 
make a custard, allowing five eggs to a 
quart of milk, and sweeten to taste; 
pour this over the apples and bake about 
half an hour. Hood's Sarsaparilla acts 
upon the kidneys, liver and bowels. 

Tapioca Cup Pudding. 

This is very light and delicate for in- 
valids. An even tablespoonful of tapioca, 
soaked for two hours in nearly a cup of 
new milk, stir into this the yolk of a fresh 
egg, a little sugar, a grain ot salt, and 
bake it in a cup for 15 minutes. A little 
jelly may be eaten with it. Hood's Sar- 
saparilla invigorates the nerves. 

Queen Pudding. 

Soak 1 pint of bread-crumbs in l pint of 
milk, beat the yolks of 8 eggs and whites 
of 4 with 1 cupful of sugar, flavor with 
lemon, add 1 tablespoonful of butter and 
bake; beat the four whites of eggs that 
were left out, with a cupful of sugar, put 
it over the pudding as soon as baked, and 
cook it until the meringue is a light brown. 
"VVe know Hood's Sarsaparilla is worth a 
trial. 

Eve Pudding. 

6 oz. finely-grated bread, G oz. currants, 
6 oz. of sugar, *6 eggs, G apples, some 
lemon-peel and nutmeg; let it boil three 
hours. Serve with a nice sauce. Now is 
a good time to try Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Snoiv Pudding. 

G eggs, Gtablespoonfuls corn starch, not 
very heaping, a little salt, one table- 



for indigestion and attendant troubles. 
Youi's truly, F. C. Churchill, firm of Car- 
ter & Churchill, Lebanon, N. H. 

^^ Awful Distress.' ' 

Dear Sirs— I have been troubled wich 
dyspepsia, indigestion and debility for 
years. Nothing reached my case till I 
found Hood's Sarsaparilla. Six bottles 
cured me. Now I can eat anything with- 
out that awlul distress ; have a tremend- 
ous appetite, and am free from that tired 
feeling. I cannot praise your Sarsaparilla 
too highly. Very truly yours, Park Patten, 
Gardiner, Me. 

CatarrJi. 

On the strength of the following facts 
we feel justified in callmgthe attention cf 
all who suHer from this disagreeable dis- 
ease (whether it be a recent or chronic 
case) and suggest that they give Hood's 
Sarsaparilla a trial. It is only fair and 
reasonable to expect that it will do again 
what it has already done. 

Smell Lost. A city offlcial met us on 
the street one day with the question, 
" Will Hood's Sarsaparilla cure catarrh?" 
He went on to say, "I know a case in a 
neighboring town of a lady who had 
catarrh so for years that it finally de- 
stroyed her sense of smell. She took 
Hood's Sarsaparilla and it restored her 
sense of smell." 

Copious Dischakge. A mother said 
tons a few days since, "Did you know 
that Hood's Sarsaparilla was a great 
remedy for catarrh. Yvliy, my boy had it 
so I could hardly keep him in clean hand- 
kerchiefs. He has taken one bottle, and 
that tei'rible amount of discharge has 
stopped." 

I have had catarrh for years. Last April 
the dropping in my throat became un- 
usually troublesome, and I became some- 
what alarmed, as it seemed to afJcct my 
right lung. I took two bottles cf Hood's 
Sarsaparilla, and I think it has cured mc. 
INIy appetite, which was variable before, is 
first-rate now. Very truly yours, Charles 
H. GrifQn, 69 Smnmer Street, Lowell, 
JNIass. 



Hood's Sarsaparilla cures dyspepsia. 



10 



spoonful of sugar and the juice of one 
lemon; dissolve the corn starch in a little 
cold water and turn 1 qt. of boiling water 
upon it; add the salt, sugar and juice of 
lemon, then add the whites of the eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth and stir well; set 
in a basin of boiling water and scald ten 
minutes, turn into a mould and set away 
to harden; scald 11/2 pints of milk, add 
yolks of eggs beaten light, and sugar 
enough to make pretty sweet, and stir 
until it begins to thicken, add a little salt 
and flavor to taste; turn the snow out of 
the mould into a glass dish and pour the 
cream around it. Invest one dollar in 
Hood's Sarsaparilla; you'll not regret it. 

Charlotte Musse. 

Make a sponge cake of 3 eggs, 1 V2 cups 
of sugar, 2 cups of flour, % cup of cold 
water, 1 teaspoonful cream tartar, Y2 
teaspoonful of soda. Beat the sugar and 
eggs together, when light add the water, 
then the flour, in which the cream of 
tartar and soda are thoroughly mixed. 
Flavor with lemon. Bake in tin sheets in 
a quick oven. Line the Charlotte Kusse 
mould with strips of the cake, leaving 
narrow spaces between the pieces of cake. 
Filling: Yolks of 5 eggs, 14 cup of sugar, 
1 teaspoonful of vanilla, 14 box of gelatine, 
1/3 cup of milk, 1 pint of cream. Soak the 
gelatine in a little cold water one or two 
hours; beat the yolks of eggs and sugar 
together, have the cream whipped to a 
stiff froth and set the dish into anotlier 
dish of ice water; let the milk come to a 
boil, stir gelatine into this and pour the 
boiling mixture on eggs and sugar, 
place in a basin of ice water and stir until 
it begins to thicken, then add the whipped 
cream. Stir from the bottom imtil it is 
cool enough to just pour and turn into 
the mould. Hood's Sarsaparilla works 
Avonders in the blood. 

jStrawberri/ Cream, 

Pick the stalks from a box of straw- 
berries, bruise them with a wooden 
spoon in a basin, with six ounces of fine 
sugar, rub this through a clean hair 
sieve, add a pint of whipped cream and 
two ounces of isinglass or gelatine, which 



Hood's Sarsaparilla is prepared only by 
C.I. Hood & Co., Apothecaries, Lowell, 
Mass. Price $1, six for $5. 

Neuralgia, 

As most neuralgic pains are doubtless 
the result of a low condition of the sys- 
tem or a disordered state of the blood. 
Hood's Sarsaparilla is a very excellent 
medicine to take at all times. If its use 
is persisted in till the system is built up, 
the blood purified, and its circulation re- 
stored to a healthy condition, the cause 
being removed, the disease w'ill usually 
disappear. \Ve cannot speak too enthu- 
siastically of the wonderful power of 
Hood's Sarsaparilla in the cure of head- 
ache and other pains that are generally 
classed under the head of neuralgia, be- 
cause so many cures have been reported 
to us and so much happiness expressed by 
those who have been permanently cured 
by using Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

"Writing of Neuralgia, Piomberg says of 
the pain characteristic of it: "It seems 
as if pain Avere the prayer of the nerve 
for healthy blood." Hood's Sarsaparilla 
is the best remedy for purifying, vitaliz- 
ing and enriching the blood and making 
it healthy. Prepared only by C. I. Hood 
& Co., Apothecaries, Lowell. Mass. Price 
one dollar a bottle, or six for five dollars. 

Sore 3Iouth, 

Gents— It gives me pleasure to write 
you that Hood's Sarsaparilla cured me of 
a sore mouth, which had troubled me five 
years. I tried most everything before I 
heard of your Sarsaparilla. Yours truly, 
]\Irs. E. Buttrick, West Lynn, Mass. 

Kidney Complaint, 

" I have suffered from kidney complaini 
for fifteen years. Have tried everj-thing. 
Have taken two bottles 'of Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla; the backache, dizziness, pain in 
my chest and arms, and that feeling of 
intense weariness are all gone. I can eat 
anything. Feel just like work; in fact, 
like a ncv/ man. Can heartily recommend 
Hood's Sarsaparilla." Very truly yours, 
Jonathan J. Coburn, Dracut, Mass. 



HoodCs Sarsaparilla purifies the blood. 



n 



has been dissolved together, mix with tlie 
strained j^ trawberries and put in the 
mould. Iveiybody likes Hood's Sarsa- 
parilL-v— tr V' it. 

Celestine Cream. 

Imbed a plain mould in some rough ice. 
Line the bottom and sides of the mould 
with fresli picked strawberries, taking 
care to put each in dissolved gelatine, in 
which ilif re has been mixed some maras- 
chino or other wine, when the interior of 
the mould is completely lined on the 
bottom and sides, fillthe interior with 
the preceding cream. Only a penny a 
dose- -Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Frosting, 

Soak 1 teaspoon<'ul of gelatine in 1 table- 
spoonful of cold water half an hour, dis- 
solve in 2 tablespoonfuls of hot water, 
add one cup of powdered sugar and stir 
imtil smooth. Hood's Sarsaparilla is sold 
by all druggists. 

Sponge Drops, 

Beat to a froth 3 eggs and 1 teacup of 
sugar; stir into this one heaping coffee 
cup of flour, in which one teaspoouful of 
cream of tartar and half a tcaspoonful of 
saleratus are thoroughly mixed. Flavor 
with lemon, Cutter tin sheets with washed 
butter, and drop in tcaspoonfuls about 
thi'ce inches apart. Bake instantly in a 
very quick oven. Watch closely as they 
will burn easily. Serve with ice cream. 
An Aldei-man says Hood's Sarsaparilla is 
the strongest. 

Shrewsbury Cakes, 

V4 lb. butter, V4 lb. granulated sugar, G 
oz. flour, 1 teaspoouful of poimded cinna- 
mon and mace, 1 egg. Beat the sugar and 
butter to a cream, then add the egg and 
spice; then stir in very gradually the 
flour; roll out the paste as thin as possi- 
ble, and cut into cookies and bake. A 
tcaspoonful of water will prevent the 
mixture sticking to the board. Take 
Hood's Sarsaparilla now. 

Cocoanut Cookies, 

1 cup of sugar, 1^ cup of butter, 1 egg, 
2 tablespoonfuls milk, l tcaspoonful cream 



Skill vs. Ignorance, 

" As a perfect pharmaceutical prepara- 
tion, we are told that Hood's Sarsaparilla 
surpasses any proprietary article upon 
the market. Even to our inexperienced 
eye we see positive indications of the 
truth of the foregoing. A glance at the 
article shows the scrupulous neatness and 
care with which the detail of its manu- 
facture and putting up must be conduct- 
ed. These points are of importance in 
any business, but in the manipulations of 
remedies for the relief of human suffer- 
ing they become of supreme importance, 
and only such medicines arc worthy 
public confidence."— i/arf/o?-(Z Cmirant. 



A gentleman of unquestionable re- 
liabilitj^ gives us the following history of 
a case: " A lady was so reduced by dis- 
ease that her blood had begun to turn to 
Avater, her feet and legs swelled, her 
tongue, mouth and throat were so raw that 
she could only take milk and water. In 
three days after taking Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla her tongue, mouth and throat were 
nearly well. In a few months she gained 
from one hundred and twelve to one hun- 
dred and forty pounds. Her husband 
was opposed to her taking a proprietary 
medicine and it was smuggled to her 
under the name of ' the Doctor's medi- 
cine.' He has since recommended it." 

Eeader, do you think this a big story? 
We give you our word of honor that it is 
true. Knowing this, do you wonder at 
our confidence in the future of Hood's 
Sarsaparilla? 

Another case— "A young man had a 
terrible sore on his neck, which used him 
up so thoroughly that his recovery was 
doubtful. Hood's Sarsaparilla cured 
him." 

Mood's Sarsaparilla 

Works througli the blood, regulating, 
toning and invigorating all the functions 
of the body. Sold by druggists. Price 
$1, or six for $5. C. I. Hood & Co., Low- 
ell, Mass. 



Take Hood's Sarsaparilla now. 



12 



of tartar, % teaspoonful soda, a little 
salt, 1 cup of cocoanut. Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla purifies the blood. 

Mrs, Bly's Ginger Snaps, 

1 cup of sugar, 1 cup of molasses, J cup 
butter and lard, 1 teaspoonful salt, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls ginger, 3 teaspoonfuls cream of 
tartar, 2 teaspoonfuls soda dissolved in Vg 
cup of boiling water. Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla cures dyspepsia. 

Ladies' Fingers, 

1 cup of sugar, l^ cup of butter beaten 
together, l egg, V4 cup of milk, 1 pint of 
flour, 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar, % 
teaspoonful soda, 1 V4 teaspoonfuls of 
vanilla. Cut in little strips, roll in sugar 
and bake in a quick oven. Use your 
hands to roll them, instead of a rolling 
pin. Hood's Sarsaparilla eradicates 
ocrofula. 

Almond Jumbles, 

One pound of sugar, one-half pound of 
butter, one pound of almonds blanched 
and chopped fine, two eggs, flour enough 
to mix stiff. Eoll thin, moisten the top 
of each one with the white of egg, and 
sprinkle with sugar. Bake quickly. 
Hood's Sarsaparilla the best spring 
medicine. 

3Iacaroons, 

Half a pound of sweet almonds, blanch- 
ed and pounded fine, with one tab lespoon- 
ful of rose water; whites of three eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, stir in half a pound 
of powdered sugar and add the almonds. 
Drop the mixture with a spoon on butter- 
ed tin sheets, and bake in a cool oven. 
To cure biliousness take Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla. 

Soft Gingerbread, 

One egg, one cup of molasses, one-third 
cup of melted butter, one-half cup of 
milk, one teaspoonful of saleratus, one 
teaspoonful of ginger, two and one-half 
cups of flour, a little salt. Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla builds up the system. 

FranJcie's Composition Cake, 

1% lbs. of sugar, 1 lb. and 2 oz. butter, 
8 eggs, a full coffee cup of milk, 114 nut- 



Scrofula, 

Probably no form of disease is so gen- 
erally distributed among our population 
as scrofula, hence a remedy that destroys 
the germs of this disease, and when 
settled, has the power to eradicate it, 
must be appreciated by the afflicted. 
The remarkable cures of children, of 
those of middle age, and of those late in 
life, as demonstrated by testimonials, 
prove that Hood's Sarsaparilla contains 
remedial agents that positively eradicate 
scrofula from the blood. The terrible 
sufferings of those afflicted by scrofulous 
sores cannot be understood by others, 
and the intensity of their gratitude to a 
remedy that cures them, may astonish a 
Avcll person. 

Dear Sirs— I think the cure of Mrs. 
Cole of scrofulous sores, by Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla, a miracle. I could not believe it 
till I received a letter from her saying it 
was true. Her statement docs not ex- 
aggerate her terrible sufferings. Wlien 
she went to Wcstfordwe didn't think it 
possible for her to get well. I know 
several who have used Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla with excellent results. With best 
wishes for the success of your good medi- 
cine, I am yours truly, Mrs. Sarah J. 
Davis, IManchester, N. H. 

$5 VS. $300, 
Cancer in the Stomach. 

Dear Sirs— Six years ago last April my 
mother, Mrs. Benj. Clement, of Warner, 
N. n., gave up work, on account of cancer 
in the stomach. Food caused intense 
distress, and she took only enough 
nourishment to sustain life. We spared 
no expense to find relief. We paid out 
more than C^OO, without avail. At last 
we found Hood's Sarsaparilla. When she 
had taken one bottle she wrote me, "I 
can eat anything I desire without being 
distressed. It is surprising to see the 
good it has done me." These are tlie 
facts as short as I can give them. She 
has taken five bottles. Very truly yours, 
IL M. Clement, 127 Hildreth Street, 
Lowell, Mass. Hood's Sarsaparilla is pre- 
pared only by C. I. Hood £: Co., apothe- 
caries, Lowell, Mass. Price one dollar; 
six bottles, L\q dollars. Sold by druggists. 



Hood's Sarsaparilla builds up the system. 



18 



meg, a little cinnamon mixed with it, 1 

wine glass of brandy, l^^ lbs. of flour, 
114 lbs. of fruit, 1/4 lb. citron, Vo teaspoon- 
ful soda. Beat the whites of the eggs to 
a froth, then put in the yolks and have 
that come to a froth. To sharpen the 
appetite take Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Ulch Coffee Cake, 

Two cupfuls of butter, three of sugar, 
one of molasses, one of very strong 
coffee, one of cream or rich milk, the 
yolks of .eight eggs, one pound each of 
raisins and currants, one-half pound each 
of citron and figs, and five cupfuls of 
browned flour after it is sifted. Tut the 
flour in the oven, and watch well to keep 
from burning, until it is a nice brown; 
when cold, sift with it three teaspoonfuls 
of baking-powder and a little salt. Cut 
the figs in as long strips as you can; 
dredge all the fruit with flom-; beat the 
cake up well, and bake in a salt-box, 
lined with nice thick brown paper, well- 
buttered, hi a moderate oven, from four to 
five hours. A reliable medicine— Hood's 
Sarsaparilla. 

Maine JPlnm Cake. 

A pound each of butter, sugar and flour, 
ten eggs, a pound of raisins, two of cur- 
rants, half a pound of citron, a teaspoon- 
ful of powdered clove, half as much mace, 
a nutmeg, the juice of a lemon and grated 
peel, half a teacup of good molasses. 
Beat butter to a cream, add sugar, beat 
the whites and yolks separately, and add 
them to butter and sugar; then by degrees 
put in two-thirds of the flour, in which one 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar is thorough- 
ly mixed, then add one-half teaspoonful 
of soda, dissolved in a spoonful of boiling 
water; then add the fruit mixed with the 
flour that remains, stirring the cake fast 
a few minutes. Bake in one tin five hours 
in a moderate oven. Cure Salt Rheum by 
taking Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Barnard Cake, 

One cup of butter, 3 cups of sugar, 4% 
cups of flour, 4 eggs, 1 cup of sour milk; 
the juice and a little of the rind of a lemon, 
and one teaspoonful of saleratus. Diph- 
theritic convalescents should take Hood's 
Sarsaparilla. 



The Wonderful 

Power of Hood's Sarsaparilla in eradi- 
eating every form of scrofula has been 
so clearly and fully demonstrated that it 
leaves no shadow of doubt about its be- 
ing the greatest medical discovery of this 
generation. 

Scrofulous sores, or ulcers, covering 
large portions of the body, have yielded 
to the wonderful purifying effects of 
Hood's Sarsaparilla when all other means 
had totally failed to reach the disease. 

Scrofulous ulceration of the eyelids, 
wliich is known to all as one of the most 
obstinate forms to cure, which this uni- 
versal taint in the blood frequently as- 
sumes, has also repeatedly demonstrated 
the astonishing power of Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla, in thoroughly eradicating this 
poisonous matter from the blood. 

Scrofulous bunches on the neck and 
face are indications of a need of a 
a tliorough cleansing of the blood. Even 
if they do not give trouble at present, 
they may produce serious results, and no 
one can afl'ord to pass the admonition 
without acting wisely. ^ 

No remedy has been so successful as 
Hood's Sarsaparilla, in reducing these 
bunches and thoroughly cleansing the 
whole system of the pernicious effects of 
this type of scrofula. 

Ten Years, 

" For ten years I suffered from scrofu- 
lous sores, which reduced me to a helpless 
condition. I cannot refrain from ex- 
pressing my gratitude for the permanent 
cure Hood's Sarsaparilla effected m my 
case nearly two years ago, when my 
physicians gave me up. I have recom- 
mended your Sarsaparilla to more than a 
tliousand cases, and my faith in its in- 
vincibility in curing scrofula has become 
absolute by the wonderful cures it has 
effected aside from my own. I trust you 
will not be slow in making the merits of 
Hood's Sarsaparilla known everywhere, 
for it is a duty you owe to mankind. 
With best wishes, I remain very truly 
yours, Sarah C. Whittier, Warner, N. H." 



To cure hiliousness, take Hood's Sarsaparilla. 



14 



Dayton Cake, 

Five eggs, 5 cups of flour, 3 cups of 
.sugar, IV2 cups of butter, 1 cup of water, 
2 teaspoonf uls cream of tartar, 1 teaspoon- 
ful saieratus, a little salt. Flavor with 
lemon. Hood's Tooth Fowder is in 
everybody's mouth, or should be. 

French Loaf Cake. 

Two and one-quarter cups of sugar, 5 
cups of flour, 1 cup of milk, 3 eggs, a wine 
glass of brandy, 2 nutmegs, V2 teaspoonf ul 
of saleratus, 1/2 H^- raisins, V4 lb. citron. 
Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add 
part of the flour, and the milk a little 
v/arm, then the beaten yolks, the re- 
mainder of the flour with the whites well 
beaten, spice, brandy, fruit and saleratus. 
Hood's Tooth Fowder sweetens the 
breath. 

IVJiite Fruit Cake, 

One cup of butter, 2 cups of sugar, l cup 
of sweet milk, 2 1/2 cups of flour, whites of 
7 eggs, 2 even tcaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, 1 pound each of raisins, figs, 
dates and blanched almonds, V4 pound of 
citron, cut all fine. Beat all well before 
adding fruit. Stir fruit in last, with a 
sifting of flour over it. Bake slowly. 
Hood's Tooth Powder hardens the gums. 

Vanilla Ice Cream, 

One quart of cream, 1 large cup of sugar, 
IV4 tcaspoonfuls of vanilla. A very good 
ice cream may be made with one pint of 
cream and one pint of milk. Hood's 
Tooth Fowder whitens the teeth. 

Stratvherry Ice Cream, 

One quart of strawberries, 1 pint of 
sugar, 1/2 pint of milk, ly^ pii^t of cream. 
Mash the berries and sugar together, add 
the cream and rub through a fine strainer 
into the freezer. Hood's Tooth Fowder 
is only twenty-five cents. 

Flneapple Sherbet, 

One can of pineapple, a small pint of 
sugar, one pint of water, one tablespoon- 
ful of gelatine. Cut the hearts and eyes 
from the fruit, and chop it very fine, add 
the juice from the can, the water and 



Hood's Tooth I*owder 

Is distmguished from all other prepara- 
tions by its extraordinary efficacy in re- 
moving tartar, ensurmg to the teeth a 
most beautiful pearly whiteness. Its 
corrective and astringent properties in- 
duce a healthy action of the gums, and 
a consequent firmness and brightness cf 
color. 

Scientific examinations prove Hood's 
Tooth Fowder the most effectual in 
destroying the animal and vegetable 
parasitic animalculae, which are the 
causes of decay, and are found to exist on 
nearly all teeth. 

Hood's Tooth Fowder is made of the 
best materials, critically selected for this 
special purpose, and is guaranteed not to 
contain any injurious ingredient, and if 
used regularly night and morning it will 
preserve the teeth and gums in a sound 
and ornamental state to old age. 

No other preparation leaves in the 
mouth such a cool, pleasing sensation as 
Hood's Tooth Fowder. It neutralizes all 
the offensive secretions of the mouth, 
sweetens the breath and gives to the 
gmns a bright, healthy color. 

What Our Dentists 

Say of Hood's Tooth Fowder: "We 
have made a critical examination of 
Hood's Saponaceous Tooth Fowder, and 
can assure the public that it does not 
contain anything that can possibly injure 
the teeth, cither mechanically or chemi- 
cally. Very truly yours, G. A. Gerry, 
C. T. Clifford,. W. H. Downs, B. Heald, 
A. T. Johnson, G. A. W. Yinal, E. M. 
Nelson." 

Hood's Tooth Fowder combines the fol- 
lowing points: Large quantity, best 
quality, low price, a neat patent metallic 
cap, which avoids waste, retains its 
delightful fragrance and makes it con- 
venient for traveling. Only 25 cents a 
bottle. Sold by druggists. Mammoth 
size, 50 cents. 

N. B. The original and only genuine 
Hood's Tooth Fowder is made by C. I. 
Hood & Co., Apothecaries, Lowell Mass. 
Name blovai in every bottle. 



Hood's Tooth P owder sweetens the breath. 



15 



sugar; add the gelatine, which has been 
soaking one or two houi's in cold Avater 
enough to cover, and dissolved in half a 
cup of boiling water. Use Hood's Olive 
Ointment for burns. 

Leniofi Sherbet, 

The juice of five lemons, one pint of 
sugar, one quart of water, one table- 
spoonful of gelatine. Put together like 
the phicapple. Try Hood's Olive Oint- 
ment for chapped lips and hands. It 
cures when others fail. 

Chocolate Caramels, 

Three lbs. broAra sugar, 1/2 lb. butter, 
V2 Ih. of chocolate scraped fine, one pint 
of cream or milk. Melt all these together 
with care, and boil twenty minutes or 
half an hour, stirring constantly. Just 
before taking otf the fire, flavor Avith va- 
nilla and add a small cuj) of granulated 
sugar. Pour into a buttered tin. AMien 
partly cool, mark in pieces about an inch 
square. Use Hood's Olive Ointment for 
hard and soft corns. 

Caramels, 

One cup of molasses, 2 of sugar. Boil 
ten minutes. Add 1 large tablespoonful 
flour, butter size of an egg, 1/2 lb. choco- 
late. Boil twenty minutes. Hood's Olive 
Ointment is the best family salve. 

Taffy. 

Two cups of broANTi sugar, 1/2 cup of 
butter, 4 tablespoonfuls of molasses, 2 
tablespoonfuls of water, 2 tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar. Boil fifteen minutes. Only 
twenty-five cents for a box of Hood's 
Olive Ointment. 

^Everton Toffee, 

One lb. powdered loaf sugar, l teacupful 
water, 14 lb. butter, G drops essence of 
lemon. Put the water and sugar in a 
hrass pan on the stove. Beat the butter 
to a cream; when the sugar is dissolved 
add the butter, and keep stirring the mix- 
ture over the fire until it sets. Just be- 
fore the toffee is done add the lemon. 
Use Hood's Olive Ointment for biu-ns. 



Cream Walnuts, 

TMiite of one egg; stir into it sufficient 
powdered sugar to make it stiff enough to 
handle, flavor with vanilki; dip the wal- 
nuts into a sjTup made of two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar and one of water, 
boiled tliree or four minutes. Mould the 
cream with your fingers and place be- 
tween the two halves of a walnut. Dates 
or :\ralaga grapes may be used. To make 
chocolate cream Avalnuts, stir two table- 
spoonfuls of melted chocolate into the 
cream. Hood's Olive Ointment is the 
best family salve. 

Hood's Olive Ointment 

Is made of carefully-selected barks, 
gams, choice olive oil and other ingredi- 
ents particularly celebrated for their 
healing and soothing properties. We 
cannot speak too positively of its value as 
a family salve, in curing chapped lips and 
hands, hard and soft corns, ingrowing 
nails, boils, burns, sores, salt rheum or 
eczema, cuts, flesh-wounds, scrofulous 
sores, pimples, tetter, festers, cutaneous 
diseases, eruptions, sore nipples, broken 
breasts, bruises, inflammation, piles, chil- 
blains, and for the hundred and one 
things for which a good family salve is 
is constantly used, ^\c do not offer it as a 
pile ointment, but it has cured multitudes 
of this distressing complaint when all 
other remedies failed, and these facts 
warrant us in recommending it to our 
patrons for this disease. These remarks 
are equally applicable to that annoying 
affliction, chilblains. Please remember 
that Ave say with great emphasis and 
truth that no other article approaches 
Hood's Olive Ointment in curative poAver. 
We know that the experience of all Avho 
use it Avill corroborate this statement and 
Avill cause all to Avonder at the marvellous 
healing and soothing properties it com- 
bines. A lady writes, " You don't praise 
your Olive Ointment half enough." 
Another, "We couldn't keep house Avith- 
out it." Another, " It's the best thing 
to heal I ever saAv." A trial captivates 
every one in its favor. Price 25 cents a 
box; five boxes, $1.00. Sent by mail on 
receipt of price. 



Use Hood's Olive Ointment for burns. 



16 



Molasses Candy, 

Two cups of molasses, 1 tablespoonful 
of sugar; stir occasionally while boiling; 
before taking from the fire add butter 
half the size of an egg, and one-third tea- 
spoonful of soda. Pom- into buttered tins 
and when cool enough pull it. To cure 
constipation, use Hood's Vegetable Pills 

3Iolasses Candy. 

Two cups of sugar, 1 cup of molasses, 
1/2 cup of water; after it begins to boil 
add 14 teaspoonful cream of tartar; cook 
in the usual way, but do not stir; before 
taking from the fire, add butter half the 
size of an egg. Do not butter your hands 
while pulling. To stir up the liver, take 
Hood's Vegetable Pills. 

Vinegar Candy. 

Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of 
w^ater, four tablespoonfuls of vinegar; stir 
before putting on the stove, not after. 
Hood's Pills— the best family physic. 

Cocoanut Droits. 

One pound of cocoanut, 1 pound of 
.powdered sugar, small quarter of a pound 
of flour, whites of six eggs. Bake in a 
quick oven. A cold is often annihilated 
by Hood's Pills. 

Ice Cream Candy. 

Two cups of granulated sugar, one-half 
cup of water, add one-fourth teaspoonful 
oi cream tartar dissolved in water, as 
soon as it boils. Boil about ten minutes; 
don't stir. When done it will be brittle 
if dropped in cold water; add butter half 
the size of an egg just before taking off 
the stove-, pour into a buttered tin to 
cool, and pull it as hot as possible. Flavor 
while pulling, with vanilla, checkerberry 
or any extract to suit taste. Hood's Pills 
are purely vegetable. 

Fig Candy. 

One cup of sugar, one-third cup of 
water, one-fourth teaspoonful cream of 
tartar. Do not stir while boiling. Boll 
to amber color, stir in the cream of tartar 
just before taking from the fire. Wash 
the figs, open and lay in a tin pan and 
pour the candy over them. A fever is 
often warded o£E by Hood's Pills. 



Peppermints. 

Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of 
water; boil five minutes. Flavor to taste 
with peppermint; stir until thick, and 
drop on white paper, well-buttered. To 
cure constipation, use Hood's Vegetable 
Pills. 

Hood's Vegetable JPills 

Are a purely vegetable cathartic medi- 
cine—are made to meet a legitimate de- 
mand for a family physic that is perfectly 
safe— and can be relied upon to do theii* 
work thoroughly. 

A fever is often warded off by the 
timely use of this efficient cathartic. 

A cold, which might otherwise continue 
for days, is often annihilated in a single 
night by a dose of Hood's Vegetable 
Pills. 

For constipation and costiveness Hood's 
Vegetable Pills cannot be excelled. The 
importance of keeping the bowels in a 
natural condition cannot be too highly 
regarded, and the sooner people realize 
this truth and put it in operation, the 
sooner shall we find the health of com- 
munities elevated to its normal condition. 

As a dinner-pill they will be found all 
that can be desired. They stimulate the 
stomach, and by assisting digestion pre- 
vent the nausea and distress which so 
frequently occur after eating or drinking 
too heavily. 

It is a wise custom to have a physic of 
some kind ready for immediate use. The 
necessity which so often compels all to 
resort to a medicine of this kind renders 
it the most important one in the medicine 
closet. Try Hood's Pills. Price only 25 
cents; 5 boxes, $1.00. Sent by mail on 
receipt of price. 

Caution. Avoid all pills containing 
calomel, mercury, or any mineral sub- 
stance, as they are liable to do harm. 



Eev. James P. Stone, of Dalton, N. H., 
after using Hood's Sarsaparilla, 01iv3 
Ointment and Vegetable Pills, writes: 
" Your preparations are all they profess 
to be. ]\Irs. S. says your Pills are the 
best she has ever known." 



ii 



Hood's Pills — the best family physic. 



17 



A Great V^lctory. 

Below is given another statement 
showing the wonderful power Hood's 
Sarsaparilla lias over scrofula : 

"In the winter of 1879 I was attacked 
with scrofula, in one of its most 
aggravating forms. At one time I had 
no less than thirteen large abscesses 
over and around my neck and throat, 
continually exuding an offensive mass 
of bloody matter, disgusting to behold, 
and almost intolerable to endure. It is 
impossible to fully describe my suffer- 
ings, as the case was complicated with 

CHRONIC CATARRH. 

After three years of constant misery, 
having been treated by three physi- 
cians, I was worse than ever. At 
last, upon the recommendation of 
W. J. Iluutley, druggist, of Lockport, I 
was induced to try Hood's Sarsaparilla. 
And now, after having taken twelve 
bottles, within the last twelve months, 
the scrofulous eruptions have entirely 
ceased, and the abscesses have all 
disappeared, except the unsightly scars, 
which are daily becoming 'smaller by 
degrees, and beautifully less.' I do not 
know what it may have done for others, 
but I do know tliat in my case. Hood's 
Sarsaparilla has proved an effective 
specific indeed. As an evidence of my 
gratitude, I send you these facts 
unsolicited, and I am ready to verify 
the authenticity of this cure, by personal 
correspondence with nny wlio doubt it." 
Chas. a. Egberts, East Wilson, N. Y. 

FULLY CORROBORATED. 

Being fully conversant with the facts 
in the case, the following statement from 
a well-known druggist, must convince 
even the most skeptical of the entire 
truth of the foregoing letter : 

' • The testimonial which you have from 
Charles A. Koberts is a good and reliable 
one. He began taking Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla for scrofulous ulcers by my advice, 
and when he had taken five or six 
bottles the ulcers had entirely disap- 
peared. But he continued till he had 
taken twelve bottles, and stands to-day 
a well man. He stopped taking it 
about three or four months ago, and I 
was fearf'Ul that the ulcers would reap- 



pear, but they have not, and the case 
is certainly a great victory for Hood's 
Sarsaparilla. This great medicine now 
outsells all other blood purifiers adver- 
tised in this city." W. J. Huntley, 
Druggist, Lockport, N. Y. 

Improved at Once. 

"My youngest son has always been 
troubled with humor. He had sores 
in his head discharging from his ears, 
and a running sore on the back of his 
ear for two years"; his eyelids would 
fester and ulcerate, discharging so that 
I was obliged t(rwash them open every 
morning, his eyelashes nearly all com- 
ing out. We were unable to find any- 
thing that had the least effect upon 
him till last spring, when we gave him 
two bottles of Hood's Sarsaparilla. 
His appetite improved at once. The 
back of his ear healed up without a 
scar, and there has not been a sore 
in his head since." Mrs. N. C. San- 
born, Lowell, Mass. 

Sight and Hearing. 

F, K. McCully, Newark, N. J., sends 
an account of a girl nine years old 
troubled with blood disorder so that 
both sight and hearing were affected. 
She was admitted to a hospital. Her 
mother read in Hood's Cook Book of 
remarkable cures by Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla, and decided to try the medicine. 
After using five bottles her sight and 
hearing re'turned. The cure is regarded 
as wonderful. 

Lanced Ten Titnes. 

"My little girl was sorely afflicted 
with scrofula till she was twenty-six 
months old, when we commenced giving 
her Hood's Sarsaparilla. So virulent 
was the disease that the doctor had 
lanced her neck ten times. When we 
began to give her Hood's Sarsaparilla, 
there was a very large bunch on her 
little face. This we expected to open 
with a lancet ; but to our surprise the 
bmich began to shrink under the influence 
of Hood's Sarsaparilla, and now it has 
entirely disappeared. Baby is in good 
flesh, sores all gone, her appetite is 
good, and she seems as well as any child." 
W. H. CoNANT, Lyme Centre, N. H. 



18 



Another Boy Cured. 

James Burns, 22 George Street, Lowell, 
Mass., had a son very severely afflicted. 
On his head were two of the most 
horrid sores ever seen, reaching from 
ear to ear, and streaming with cor- 
ruption. An ulcer on his leg w\as so 
large and raw that the boy could not 
get his boots on. In this awful con- 
dition, with nine running sores, the 
father tried Hood's Sarsaparilla. The 
first bottle only dried the running a 
little. Four bottles healed all the sores 
but one on his breast, -which soon after 
disappeared, and the boy was soon at 
school again, apparently as well as ever* 

Scrofula front Infancy. 

" I have been afflicted with cancerous 
and scrofulous huuKu- from infancy. 
My mother, sister and brother died 
of this terrible disease. During the 
past thirteen years I have taken hun- 
dreds of dollars' worth of medicines, 
but received no benefit whatever till I 
used Hood's Sarsaparilla. This was so 
highly recommended, that I gave it a 
trial. Before I had taken the first 
bottle I found I was improving, I 
have now taken several bottles. It is 
working a most remarkable cure, and 
I heartily recommend it as the best 
Sarsaparilla and blood purifier." H. J. 
Stearns, Willimantic, Conn. 

Scrofulous Swellings. 

Joseph Dunphy, 214 Central Street, 
Lowell, Mass., had swellings and lumps 
on his neck and face, w^liicli various 
pastes, ointments, and medicines failed 
to stop. A shopmate, whose wife had 
been cured of a sore on her arm by 
Hood's Sarsaparilla, recommended the 
medicine, and he bought a bottle. In 
three days there was a change in the 
eruptions, they soon began to subside, 
and five bottles effected a complete 
cure, leaving the skin smooth and fair, 
and putting him in good condition. 

Mrs, J. McClure, Eevere, Mass,, had 
a scrofulous- humor for seven years, 
and her hands and wrists were fre- 
quently covered with sores. Hood's 
Sarsaparilla cured her, and she believes 
ft to be an honest medicine. 



Large Running Sores. 

Mr. Albert Estes, whose statement 
follows, has been for many years em- 
ployed by J. W. Bennett, Esq., a leading 
contractor and builder of Lowell, and 
is well-known as a reliable man : 

"From boyhood I have been troubled 
with scrofula or salt rheum humor, which 
manifested itself in various disagreeable ■; 
forms. I had sores on different parts of 
my body, and at one time I had a large 
bunch come in my neck, which developed 
into a running sore and troubled me for a 
long time. The most serious affection, 
however, appeared about three years ago, 
on my leg between the knee and ankle. 
From an injury to the skin, which was 
comparatively slight, there grew, as the 
result of a cold and humor, a running sore, 
which became worse and spread till at 
one time it covered a idace on my leg 
fully six inches long by three or four 
inches wide, I was obliged to keep it 
bandaged constantly, and when I changed 
the bandages every night, it caused a 

SEVERE BURNING SENSATION, 

The sore was also very sensitive, and 
when at work a slight touch would 
cause it to bleed, and pain intensely. 
When I had suffered in this way about a 
year, I happened to be reading of the 
cures Hood's Sarsaparilla had effected in 
cases similar to mine, and I decided to 
give It a trial. In connection with the 
Sarsaparilla, I used Hood's Olive Oint- 
ment for the purpose of cooling and 
soothing the sore, and it served its pur- 
pose admirably. The effects of the Sar- 
saparilla wei'e also soon apparent. The 
sore began to grow less, and in a few 
months had entirely healed, leaving a 
large scar which I suppose I shall always 
have upon me. My blood seems to have 
been thoroughly purified, as I have not 
been troubled by the humor in any way 
since, though before I began taking 
Hood's Sarsaparilla I was seldom free 
from it in some form, I have recommen- 
ded Hood's Sarsaparilla to other people 
frequently, and do now recommend it to 
every one troubled with scrofula or salt 
rheum, or any in need of a medicine to 
purify the blood," Albert Estes, 28 
East Pine Street, Lowell, Mass, 



L9 



Varicose Ulcer. 

To the Public and Affl,icted: 

" I wish t(i) in;ike a statement in regard 
to Hood's Sarsaparilla and tlie vast good 
it has done me. Some ten or twelve years 
ago my leg, the veins in which had been 
in a varicose condition, broke out in an 
ulcer, which soon grew to be as large 
round as a silver dollar. I consulted sev- 
eral physicians about it. Some of them 
helped me somewhat, but none perma- 
nently. The ulcer would sometimes heal 
over and then would break out again. 
I tried everything I could hear of, but 
to no good. As will readily be under- 
stood, it gave me great trouble and pain 

FOR ELEVEN LONG YEAltS ! 

In July, 1883, the ulcer broke out worse 
than ever, and it got to be about three 
inches in diameter, on the shin bone about 
eight inches from the ankle joint, and so 
deep that the bone could be seen. The 
skin came off all around the leg, from 
the ankle joint up to my knee, and my 
leg was so sore that when I took off the 
cloths the blood would start out like drops 
of sweat, causing intense pain almost 
beyond endurance. I grew so nervous 
that I could scarcely write my name, and 
I had to give up business. In May, 1884, 
I was persuaded to try Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla by Mr. A. A. Pillsbury, who had 
been cured by this medicine of catarrh 
and varicose leg. So, May 23, 1884, I got 
my first bottle of Hood's Sarsaparilla. 
Soon after I began taking it I noticed 
improvement in the ulcer, and decrease 
of the pain. I was thus encouraged to 
continue, and when I had taken four 
bottles, in September, my leg was all 
healed up and 

ENTIRELY CURED. 

On the first of October I took off the ban- 
dage, and have not had on any since; and 
my leg is as sound as any man's. I had 
also suffered severely with catarrh, hav- 
ing the disagreeable droppings in my 
throat, and that is perfectly cured. Of 
course I praise Hood's Sarsaparilla wher- 
ever I go. It has done wonders for me, 
and I think there is nothing like it for 
varicose ulcers or sores. For confirma- 
tion of this statement I refer to the 
following parties who have known of 



my case for eleven years : F. A, 
Booth, custom mill; TV. P. Davis, ma- 
chinist ; E. E. Bond, saw, stave and head- 
ing mill ; C. S. Chambers, general store 
and postmaster ; A. H. Fairchild, mill- 
wright ; A. D. Martin and L. H. Hunting- 
ton, farmers,— all in North Bloomfield; 
also to John Ilarnish, postmaster ; Dut- 
ton & Allen, druggists; S. Ilurd, clothier ; 
George McBride, harnesses; James 
Southgate, jeweler; William Brayton, 
furniture, and others in Honeoye Falls. 
Many people in this vicinity are using 
Hood's Sarsaparilla with satisfactory 
results." Wallace Buck, Justice of 
the Peace, Box 31, North Bloomfield, 
Ontario County, N. Y. 

Further Corroboration. 

" We know that Mr. Wallace Buck has 
been troubled with a severe varicose 
ulcer for several years, and has been 
cured by Hood's Sarsaparilla. We re- 
gard him a thoroughly reliable man, and 
the above is a truthful statement of his 
case." DuTTON & Allen, Druggists, 
Honeoye Falls, N. Y. 

Varicose Veins and Humor. 

" This certifies that I have been 
troubled with varicose veins and a scrof- 
ulous humor for the past twelve or 
fifteen years — at times so severely as to 
compel me to use a crutch, or to abstain 
from business entirely. Upon the rec- 
ommendation of one of my neighbors, I 
commenced using Hood's Sarsaparilla, 
and have used two bottles and a half of 
it. My leg is entirely healed, I gain 
daily in strength, and have at all times a 
good appetite. I can cheerfully recom- 
mend it to any one who is suffering as I 
was." C. M. French, Franklin, N. II. 

Scrofulous Sores. 

C. A. Arnold, Arnold, Me., for seven 
years, spring and fall, had scrofulous 
sores on his legs ; and for two years 
was not free from them at all. lie began 
taking Hood's Sarsaparilla, and before 
he had taken two bottles the sores healed 
and the humor left him. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla is prepared by 
C. I. HOOD & CO., apothecaries, Lowell, 
Mass. Sold by all druggists. 



•20 



Glandular Swellings. 

A peculiar form of scrofula is swelling 
of the glands of the neck, often forming 
large hunches, which are very disagree- 
ahie and unsightly. These hunches ac. 
cumulate a quantity of foul matter, and 
have a weakening and depressing effect 
upon the general liealth. We give below 
a statement from a lady who suffered 
from an affection of this kind and was 
greatly benefited by Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

"Hood's Sarsaparilla has done for me 
what tlie best medical treatment in this 
vicinity has failed to accomplish. My 
disease was an enlargement of the glands 
of my neck. The gland back of my left 
ear was swollen as large as a hen's egg, 
and the glands oh my neck and collar 
bone were also swollen to about the 
same size. I doctored and suffered for 
eighteen long months, and could find no 
relief in anything I tried. My 

WHOLE GLANDULAR SYSTEM 

seemed affected. 1 read in a book 
that similar cases had been cured 
by Hood's Sarsaparilla, and I decided to 
try it. I almost immediately found relief, 
and having now taken five bottles of 
Hood's Sarsaparilla, I believe there is 
nothing equal to it for diseases of this 
kind. 1 have also used three boxes of 
Hood's Vegetable Pills and Hood's Olive 
Ointment with good results. 1 am now 
able to do my work, something I have 
not done for five years. The swelling of 
the glands has been reduced over lialf, 
and I intend to keep on taking the medi- 
cine till it is entirely gone. My general 
health has never been better than now. 
I most heartily recommend Hood's Sar- 
saparilla to all who may be suffering. 
It has certainly done me great deal of 
good." Mrs. William McDonald, 
94 North Street, Wooster, Ohio. 

A Remarkable Effect. 

"Three years ago my wife had a 
running sore break out on both sides 
of her left ankle, which soon grew so 
bad that she could not use her left 
foot ; and to move about the house 
she was compelled to use a chair and 
cane. It caused her intense suffering. 
She tried five doctors in this section. 



but none of them did her a particle of 
good. Finally she gave a Cincinnati 
doctor six months trial, and he did 
her no good whatever. Then I saw 
Hood's Sarsaparilla advertised for 
scrofula, and my wife decided to try it. 
The first bottle had a remarkable 
effect. She put aside the chair and 
cane ; the sores began to heal, and 
her health was greatly benefited." 
W. H. Van Aschen, Miamisburg, Ohio. 

As a Last Resort. 

One of the most wonderful cures of 
scrofula on record is that of the little 
daughter of INIr. M. J. Quinn, No. 285 
First Street, Albany, N. Y. She was 
afflicted with scrofula from birth, and 
physicians said it would be better for 
her if she were dead. Her father 
says : " She had thirteen running sores 
on her body, besides being absolutely 
blind for months. She lost the use of 
her limbs, and could not walk ; in 
fact, was a mere skeleton, Avasting 
away. The smell from the sores was 
terrible. Seeing in a newspaper some 
cases of. scrofula cured by Hood's 
Sarsaparilla, 1 said to myself, ' I will 
try a bottle as a last resort.' When 
she had taken the first half bottle 1 
could see a change in her, and when 
the whole bottle was taken the ab- 
scesses almost entirely healed, with the 
aid of Hood's Olive Ointment, which I 
must say is the finest I ever used. I 
kept on giving her Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla, till now she is well and healthy. 
She has a splendid appetite. The n igh- 
bors don't know what to make of it." 

Mrs. E. S. Caswell and Mrs. J. IIol- 
den, neighbors, confirm Mr. Quinn's 
statement, and consider the cure of 
his little daughter by Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla the most wonderful thing that 
has come to their knowledge. 

Sores on the NecTc. 

Miss Nellie Maine, Rockville, Conn., 
had terrible scrofulous sores on her 
neck, one being as large as her hand. 
She had given up hope of getting well, 
when a friend induced . her to try 
Hood's Sarsaparilla. After taking three 
bottles the sores entirply disappeared 



2i 



Blood Poison. 

"Last summer I met with an accident 
which resulted in poisoning the blood in 
my left leg. By recommendation of a 
friend, I made use of Hood's Sarsaparilla. 
I took one bottle, and received immediate 
relief ; the swelling on my leg reduced in 
size, and I could walk with greater ease. 
In all, I took four bottles, and am entirely 
cured. I made use of Hood's Olive Oint- 
ment in connection with Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla, and testify with hearty indorsement 
to the cthcacy of both remedies. Should 
any one inquire about my case, I shall be 
pleased to explain it fully." R. Bkuce, 
Maiden, Mass. 

" I have used Hood's Sarsaparilla for 
blood poison, and 1 believe it has entirely 
cured me." W. H. EAPai, foreman 
Beatty's Glassworks, Steubenville, Ohio. 

Poisoned by Paris Green. 

Mr. H. S. Clark, of Glen's Falls, N. Y., 
says that his blood became poisoned 
through handling Paris Green. His face 
all broke out with pimples and blotches. 
He tried the remedies usually kept In a 
drug store for such cases, but found 
nothing that did him any good till he 
made use of Hood's Sarsaparilla, which 
purified his blood and expelled the malig- 
nant venom. Mr. Clark says he knows 
by experience that Hood's Sarsaparilla 
is the best blood purifier in the market, 
and he sc recommends it. 

Malaria. 

" I have been suffering most of the 
winter with malaria and blood poison. 
Of course my physician helped me in a 
measure, but nothing permanent. I was 
urged to try Hood's Sarsaparilla, and I 
am harpy to say that it has wholly 
eradicated the disease ; also, I tried 
Hood's Sarsaparilla for sick headaches, 
and I am almost entirely free from them." 
Mrs. F. a. Lincoln, Chicago, 111. 

Performing a Duty. 

"1 feel that I should be neglecting 
my duty were I to fail in giving my testi- 
mony as to the value of Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla. For years I was a great suf- 
ferer from salt rheum, catarrh, chronic 
dyspepsia, kidney complaint and consti- 



pation. I tried medical advice and sev- 
eral kinds of medicines, all in vain. I 
am now sixty-nine years old, and have 
been using Hood's Sarsaparilla the past 
ten months. I find myself much im- 
proved in health, and know that Hood's 
Sarsaparilla has done me more good 
than anything 1 have ever used." L. A. 
WooDwoKTH, 417 Pratt St., Meriden, Ct. 

Onr Own Folhs Talce It. 

Those who are employed in connection 
with Hood's Sarsaparilla have a remark- 
able amount of confidence in the ])repara- 
tion. They believe they are working in 
the interest of a good thing, and take 
pleasure in increasing its sale. Many 
of our employes have taken Hood's Sar- 
saparilla with beneficial results, and the 
following letter, from the wife of one of 
our travelers tells frankly the good it 
has done in her family : " I had terrible 

SICK HKADACHES, 

about once a week. I sought medical 
advice and used various medicines, but 
nothing seemed to do me any permanent 
good. By advice of a friend I began to 
use Hood's Sarsaparilla, and the relief 
Avas so marked from the very first that I 
kept on and am now entirely free from 
the headaches. I am not like the same 
person, my health being improved in 
every way. I also gave Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla to my little girl for 

SWELLINGS IN HEB FACE AND NECK. 

"We had been doctoring for them a great 
while, and had had them lanced twice. 
Since we began to give her Hood's Sar- 
saparilla the swellings have disappeared, 
and she seems an entirely different child. 
She has a good appetite, and is gaining 
all the time. 1 can recommend Hood's 
Sarsaparilla to all as a safe, sure medi- 
cine." Mks. F. E. Lord, No. 421 Gates 
Avenue, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Cramp and Colic. 

" I have used Hood's Sarsaparilla for a 
blood purifier in my family for several 
years, and cannot speak too highly of it. 
It has been very beneficial in cases of 
cramp and colic, with which we have 
been troubled in this section." J. E. 
Collins, Bassett House, Piqua, Ohio. 



22 



Mother and Daughter. 

" I had a large ulcer on my leg, below 
my ki)L"e, for over a year, and though I 
took everything recommended, it did not 
commence to heal till I began taking 
Hood's Sarsaparilla, discarding all other 
preparations. I now feel better in every 
respect, and have a good appetite. I 
have not been down stairs for eight 
months; but now I feel so much better 
that I will be able to do so before long. 
I shall continue to take Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla till the ulcer is all healed. I have 
great faith in the medicine, and recom- 
mend it to every one. I have often 
thought I should like to tell how much 
good this medicine has done me." Mrs. 
D. HuTCHiNS, Roscoe, Coshocton Co., O. 

" The above statement is from my 
mother. I can say that all she says of 
Hood's Sarsaparilla is true. It certainly 
has done her a great deal of good.'' 
Mrs. R. J. Hooker, druggist, Roscoe, O. 

Scrofu I oil s Hiinio r, 

" I have been troubled with scrofulous 
humor, and sores breaking out all over 
my body for the last fifteen years. I 
have taken four bottles of Hood's Sar- 
saparilla, and it has entirely cured me. 
I recommend it very highly to any one 
troubled with scrofula, or auy blood 
disease." Henry Biggs, 1819 Campbell 
Street, Kansas City, Mo. 

Bright and Healthy. 

"Every spring my wife and children 
have been troubled with scrofula, sores 
breaking out on them in various places. 
My little boy, three years old, has been a 
terrible sufferer. Last spring he was 
one mass of sores from head to feet. I 
was advised by a friend to use Hood's 
Sarsaparilla, and we have all taken it 
this spring. The result is that all have 
been cured of the scrofula, my little boy 
being entirely free from sores, and all 
four of my children look bright and 
healthy as possibly can be. I have found 
Hood's Sarsaparilla also very good for 
catarrh, with which I have been troubled 
since the war. I have not found any- 
thing do me so much good as Hood's 
Sarsaparilla. I cordially recommend it." 
Wm. B, Atherton, Passaic City, N. J. 



Saved from Blindness. 

" I take great pleasure in telling what 
Hood's Sarsaparilla has done for my 
little boy. Six mouths ago ulcers began 
to come on his right eye. The doctors 
said the cause was scrofulous humor in 
the blood. After a time he could not 
open his eye at all; the humor grew 
worse, and his face became sore. Then 
his left eye began to be affected, and I 
thought he would be entirely blind. I 
bought a bottle of Hood's Sarsaparilla 
just for a trial. What was my surprise, 
before the bottle was all gone, his face 
had all healed up and he could open his 
eye just a little bit, something he had 
not done for four months. He contiimed 
to take it, and I am happy to say can now 

SEE AS WELL, AS HE EVER DID. 

He has left off the shade which he 
wore over his eyes so long. I feel that 
if it had not been for Hood's Sarsaparilla 
my child Avould have been blind. I 
cannot find words to praise it enough 
nor to thank you for making it known. 
I thank God that things grow to make 
so good a medicine. My boy is nov/ six 
years old, and every time I look at him 
I feel that I have not praised Hood's 
Sarsaparilla half enough. He is now 
better than he has ever been in his life 
before. Every word here is true, and 
you are at liberty to use this state- 
ment as you see fit." Mrs. Akdrew W. 
Leonard, Middleboro, Mass. 

Ittinning Sores. 

" I was severely afflicted with scrofula, 
and for over a year had two running 
sores on my neck. I took five bottles of 
Hood's Sarsaparilla and consider myself 
entirely cured." C. E. Love joy, Tyler 
Street, Lowell, Mass. 

Scrofula Tumors. 

" Last spring I had three large bunches 
on my neck which my physician called 
scrofula tumors. They were as large as 
hen's eggs. I began taking Hood's Sar- 
saparilla, and before I had used one 
bottle they began to decrease, and finally 
disappeared. I feel that I cannot say too 
much for Hood's Sarsaparilla." Mrs. S. 
NoRRis, Piqua, Ohio. 



2S 



One More Effort. 

Hon. Edgar Thorn, of Poughkeepsie, 
X. Y., attorney and counsellor-at-law, 
ex-Surrogate of Dutchess County, a 
gentleman nearly eighty years of age, 
makes his statement below. Mr. Thorn 
writes, he says, "not for notoriety, 
hut because I came to the conclusion 
that it was my duty, not only due 
you, but also for the benefit of the 
public, and those who might be suffer- 
ing from similar affliction, that they 
might be relieved thereby." Mr. Thorn 
says : " Having received much relief 
and benefit from Hood's Sarsaparilla, 
I feel constrained to send you a tes- 
timonial in its favor. For the past 
seven or eight years I have been 
afflicted with sores of an ulcerous form 
on both my legs, between the knees 
and ankles. I tried all the medicines 
for purifying the blood I could hear 
of, and it would make a long list if I 
should name them. I received no relief, 
and had made up my mind there was 

KO RELIEF FOR ME. 

But I saw Hood's Sarsaparilla rec- 
ommended for the curing of sores, etc. 
Being v-ery bad at that time, I thought 
I would make one more effort, though 
contrary to my best judgment. I con- 
sequently bought a bottle of Hood's 
Sarsaparilla. As soon as I began to 
take it improvement began, and it 
was perceptible from day to day. 
When the bottle was gone I was as- 
tonished and delighted at the change 
which had been effected in my condi- 
tion. I took a second bottle, and Avhen 
I had finished, my legs were well. I 
am now on my third bottle. There is 
not a sore on my legs, and I can use 
them as I choose. The doctors said 
it would not do to heal them up, that 
my general health would be Impaired; 
l)ut I have gained six or seven pounds, 
and have missed but one business day 
from my office, which is three-quarters 
of a mile from my house. I am now 
on the western edge of life, being in 
my eightieth year." 

Hood's Sarsaparilla is prepared by 
C. I. HOOD & CO., Lowell, Mass. Sold 
by all druggists. 100 Doses One Dollar. 



An Honest Medicine. 

" About seven years ago a scrofula 
Inmior made its appearance on my 
body — more particularly about my 
hands and wrists, feet and ankles. 
Sometimes they would be one mass of 
sores. I became so bad that I went 
to see a seventh-son doctor, who made 
a specialty of treating scrofula. After 
examining me, he said salt rheum had 
got uppermost, and he would not 
treat me. Two years ago I met a 
lady from Amherst, N. H., who had 
been benefited by the use of Hood's 
Sarsaparilla, and advised me to try it. 
I took that season two bottles and it 
helped me as nothing else did. This 
last spring I took two bottles more. 
My humor has ceased to trouble me ; 
my sores are all healed ; my health is 
excellent, so that I have stopped tak- 
ing it. I believe Hood's Sarsaparilla 
to be just what it is recommended to 
be — an honest medicine. I cordially 
recommend it to the afflicted." Mrs. 
J. McClure, Revere, Mass. 

A lady friend from Amherst, N. H., 
speaking of the .above case, says : " I 
am very intimate with Mrs. McClure, 
and never saw such a sight as her 
arm was before taking Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla. It had to be dressed very 
often, and we all thought it would 
have to be amputated. I feel sure her 
life was saved by Hood's Sarsaparilla.'" 

For Twenty- One Years 

Thomas Bennett, 21 Coventry Street, 
Boston, had a scrofulous bunch on his 
leg, below the knee. For four years 
it itched terribly, and the scratch- 
ing caused a running sore which was 
so troublesome that he could hardly 
restrain himself from cutting out the 
lump with his knife. Various remedies 
did him no good, and he thought he 
should carry the torment to his grave. 
Two bottles of Hood's Sarsaparilla 
cured him, and he says he cannot say 
too much for this medicine. 

Mrs. K. F. Baker, Maiden, Mass., 
had scrofula and canker ; wa-s greatly 
benefited by Hood's Sarsaparilla, and 
says : " I give you thanks for such a 
valuable medicine." 



24 



Intense Suffering. 

A Lowell lady, who had suffered in- 
censely from salt rheum, tells her ctory 
clearly and concisely as follows : 

" I was a great sufferer from salt rheum 
on my limbs, for a dozen years pre- 
vious to the time I was cured hy Hood's 
Sarsaparilla. The skin would become 
dry, chap, crack open, bleed, and itch 
intensely, so that I could not help 
scratching, which of course made them 
worse. At the time I commenced taking 
Hood's Sarsaparilla they were so bad 
that they discharged, and I was obliged 
to keep them bandaged with linen cloths. 
The skin was drawn so tight by the heat 
of the disease that, if I stooped over, it 
would crack open, and actually bring 
tears to my eyes. The first bottle bene- 
fited me 30 much that I continued taking 
it till I was cured. I used a box of Hood's 
Olive Ointment, to relieve the itching. I 
liope many others may learn the value of 
Hood's Sarsaparilla and receive as much 
benefit as I have." Mrs. S. S. Moody, 
75 Broadway, Lowell, Mass. 

Given Up as Incurable. 

"My little four-year-old girl had a 
powerful eruption on her face and head. 
Under her eyes it was a regular scalding 
red, and sore like a burn. Back of her 
left ear we had to shave the hair close to 
lier head. Five or six physicians and 
two hospitals gave up her case as in- 
curable, save that she might outgrow it. 
When it began to maturate I became 
alarmed. In three weeks, with Hood's 
Sarsaparilla, the sores began to heal ; 
two bottles made her eyes as clear as 
ever. To-day she is as well as I am." 
John Carey, South Boston, Mass. 

Entirely Cured. 

"A few years ago my son commenced 
using Hood's Sarsaparilla for salt rheum. 
It broke out on his hands and on the 
calves of his legs. His hands were so 
bad they would crack open and bleed. 
He has taken from six to eight bot- 
tles, and I am happy to state is en- 
tirely cured. My wife has also been 
taking Hood's Sarsaparilla, and has 
received a great amount of benefit 
from it." J. B. Stanton, Mt. Vernon, O. 



A Business Man. 

Mr. William Spies, of the firm of 
Spies & Sage, Elyria, Ohio, says : " I 
have been a great sufferer from ery- 
sipelas and salt rheum, at times so 
bad that my hands would crack open, 
the ends of my fingers would bleed 
and itch terribly ; my skin was so dry 
it would peel off, and it caused me 
intense suffering. I have used oint- 
ments, salves, and various prepara- 
tions—in fact, everything I saw adver- 
tised I bought ; but my hands were no 
better. The trouble was caused by 
handling tobacco. Seeing Hood's Sar- 
saparilla advertised, I inquired about 
it, and . found several of my friends 
using it. They induced me to try 
it, and after taking a bottle and a half, 
I was greatly pleased with the result. 
I have now taken four bottles and am 
entirely well." 

General Health Affected. 

Mr. Charles N. Adams, foreman ol 
the Vermont Journal Company, "Wind- 
sor, Vt., says : " For about four years 
I have been troubled with humor, re- 
sembling the salt rheum somewhat, 
seriously affecting my general health, 
and also at times getting into my 
eyes, so much so that I was una- 
ble to attend to my duties in the 
office. I used Hood's Sarsaparilla, and 
my eyes are apparently nearly cured, 
and the humor seems about eradi- 
cated from my system. \ am so far 
encouraged that I shall continue the 
use of the medicine, as I feel that it 
will completely renovate my blood." 

In Good Condition. 

Mr. Isaac Packard, an old and es- 
teemed resident of Campello, Mass., 
writes as follows : " I have always 
been troubled with a salt rheum. 
Every spring it shows itself by breaking 
out in sores, usually on my legs. I 
find there is nothing for it like Hood's 
Sarsaparilla. One or two bottles dry it 
up and put me in good condition for 
the season. I most highly recommend 
Hood's Sarsaparilla." 

Hood's Sarsaparilla is made only by 
C. I. HOOD ^- CO., i^cweli, Mass. 



25 



Immediate Benefit. 

" For three years I was a severe 
sufferer from dyspepsia or indigestion. 
Almost all kinds of food distressed 
me, and at times caused me great suf- 
fering, particularly at night, after retir- 
ing. Not unfrequently my distress was 
so great that I was kept awake a 
great part of the night. Finally I was 
induced to try Hood's Sarsaparilla. 1 
almost immediately began to experi- 
ence benefit. My digestion gradually 
improved, my food relished and did me 
good. I could retire at night and sleep 
soundly, without the former distress. 
After using less than two bottles, I 
was enabled to almost entirely discon- 
tinue its use, my digestive powers hav- 
ing assumed so healthy a tone. Being 
grateful for the great good I received 
from Hood's Sarsaparilla, I most cor- 
dially recommend a trial of it to any 
one suffering as I was." Emilie L. 
Speak, Melrose Highlands, Mass. 

Couldn't Eat Anything. 

"A lady in Abington told me she 
couldn't eat a thing without distress. 
I told her if she would get a bottle 
of Hood's Sarsaparilla I would pay for 
it if it did n't cure her. The next 
time I saw her (six weeks later) she 
said she could sit down and eat a 
hearty meal of victuals without dis- 
tress. It was the same way with my 
brother. He couldn't eat anything, he 
had such pains and distress. He lost 
fifty pounds. I don't know what he 
did n't try ; but I do know nothing did 
him any good till he took Hood's 
Sarsaparilla. That not only cured him, 
but he has regained thirty of the fifty 
pounds. The doctor told my brother 
to get Hood's Sarsaparilla, and if that 
didn't cure him he knew of (nothing 
that would. In our business on the 
road, all the time, we come into con- 
tact with a great many people, and I 
venture to say that I know of more 
than fifty cases of dyspepsia that have 
been cured by Hood's Sarsaparilla." 
J. M. Kaymond, Peru, Mass. 

" I used Hood's Sarsaparilla and found 
it a good thing. I was troubled with in- 
digestion." C. A. SCHULTZ. Fostoria. O. 



Has No Equal. 

" I have suffered for many years very 
much from dyspepsia. Almost all 
kinds of food distressed me, and 
often I felt dull and heavy, having 
little or no ambition to do anything. 
Not long since, in connection with 
my daughter, who was ailing, I took 
Hood's Sarsaparilla. "We have taken 
nearly three bottles, and I have de- 
rived so much benefit from its use 
that I am glad to say I think it has 
no equal." Mks. Mary A. Knights, 
Charlestown, Mass. 

Permanently Cured. ' 

"Seriously opposed to all patent 
medicines, it was after a great deal of 
talk that I was persuaded to try 
Hood's Sarsaparilla for my wife, who 
had been troubled with indigestion and 
debility for several years, which really 
rendered her feeble. Finally I was in- 
duced, faith lacking, to try one bottle 
of Hood's Sarsaparilla. Before she had 
taken all of this, her health commenced 
to improve. She is now taking the 
fourth bottle, and her health has stead- 
ily and permanently improved. I firmly 
believe Hood's Sarsaparilla is entitled 
to the credit, and I most cheerfully 
and confidently recommend it to any 
and all sufferers." George W. Bos- 
worth, Amherst, N. H. 

WorUed Wonders. 

"Hood's Sarsaparilla has worked won- 
ders in the case of my wife, who has 
been troubled with sick headache and 
biliousness for years. She found that 
within a week after taking it she felt 
very much better, and is now entirely 
free from those severe headaches." 
Homer B. Nash, Pittsfield, Mass. 

A later letter from Mr. Nash, says . 
"I am still engaged in recommending 
Hood's Sarsaparilla. It is certainly 
doing splendid things here. I am in- 
quired of every week in regard to it." 

Can Attest Its Merits. 

" I have used Hood's Sarsaparilla 
for loss of appetite and occasional 
headache, and can attest its merits." 
E. SrnwKizBR. Pittsfield, Mass. 



26 



For Ten Years. 

" For about ten years past I have been 
subject to costiveness, which I have 
been in the habit of relieving by means 
of pills, or physic in some form. This 
course produced nothing of a permanent 
nature, except to irritate the digestive 
organs, and to produce an alternate con- 
stipation and diarrhoea. Chronic indi- 
gestion, of course, was the result of this 
action, and oaly from those varieties of 
food most easy of digestion could my 
system derive any nourishment. I tried 
physicians and various medicines, espe- 
cially .those most advertised; but only 
obtained the merest temporary relief. I 
was about to join in an 

UKREASONING PREJUDICE 

against all medichies, when I decided 
to give Hood's Sarsaparilla a trial. 
The demulcent properties of Hood's 
Sarsaparilla are such that the first 
bottle allayed the irritation I have 
mentioned, and, under this mollifying in- 
fluence, my stomach gradually grew 
healthier and stronger, till now I am 
able to digest and assimilate all kinds 
of food. I used two bottles according to 
directions-; but at present take only 
occasional doses. My profession is that 
of a school teacher, and, since taking 
Hood's Sarsaparilla, I have been able to 
do my work with more vigor than ever." 
Webstek Dock, Three Rivers, Mich. 

Distress After Eating. 

" About a year ago my wife was troubled 
with dyspepsia. She could not keep her 
food down, and had that oppressed feel- 
ing after eating. She had no appetite, 
and was tired all the time. She tried 
numerous medicines without being re- 
lieved. Finally, a lady friend induced 
her to try Hood's Sarsaparilla, and the 
first bottle did her a great deal of good. 
She has now taken two bottles, and can 
eat anything she wants without having 
that distress, and lias no trouble in re- 
taining her food." John Battenfield, 
Marion, Ohio. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla is prepared by 
C. I. HOOD & CO., Lowell, Mass. Sold 
by all druggists, too Doses One Dollar. 



Indigestion. 

Henry Dickson, wholesale grocer, and 
proprietor of Dickson's Opera House, 
Kenton, Ohio, writes : " My wife has 
been ti-oubled with indigestion, and her 
blood has been in a poor condition. She 
has used several bottles of Hood's 
Sarsaparilla, and it has been a great 
benefit to her." 

Felt Like a New Woman. 

Mrs. S. S. Dimick, East Somerville, 
Mass., had dyspepsia and sore mouth; 
could not eat the first thing without 
being distressed ; was failing every day, 
and could not take care of her house or 
her children. She was told of Hood's 
Sarsaparilla, and after taking two bottles 
felt like a new woman, could do her work 
better than ever before, and is thankful 
for the medicine. 

None So Satisfactory^ 

" I have been taking Hood's Sai-sa- 
parilla for dyspepsia, from which I 
have suffered two years. I tried many 
other medicines, but none proved so 
satisfactory as Hood's Sarsaparilla. I 
recommend it to all sufferers from dys- 
pepsia." Thomas Cook, Brush Electric 
Light Company, New York City. 

Lump in the Stomach. 

" For nearly a year, by spells, I have 
been troubled with an uncomfortable 
feeling, like a lump in my stomach, 
accompanied with nausea, to remove 
which I have taken Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla and have been fully relieved." 
Hexry S. Gray, Great Falls Hotel, 
Great Falls, N. H. 

The Same Old Story. 

Mrs. A. L. Fish, formerly of Chelsea, 
Yt., now of Central City, Neb., was 
sick five years with a complication of 
scrofula and dyspepsia. She had no 
appetite, and was all run down. 
Hood's Sarsaparilla seemed to "hit the 
spot," and less than five bottles made 
a well woman of her. Her husband 
says: "It's the same old story, but 
it's just as true for all that — 'tried 
everything and everybody without relief : 
took Hood's Sarsaparilla and got well.'" 



21 



Headache for Years. 

Mr. S. Woodberry, the popular printer, 
binder and ruler at No. 105 Summer 
street, Boston, has been cured of sick 
headache by Hood's Sai^saparilla, and 
his wife has also been greatly benefited. 
Read his comprehensive statement : " It 
is with pleasure I add my testimony 
to the many who have already spoken 
of the immense good derived by them 
from the use of Hood's Sarsaparilla. 
About a year ago, my wife, not natu- 
rally very strong, became so debilitated 
that she weighed but 110 pounds; had 
no appetite ; and what ^he did eat 
distressed and troubled her a great 
deal. I purchased a bottle of Hood's 
Sarsaparilla, but she would not take 
it unless I did. I did not think I 
needed it, but to encourage her I con- 
sented. I had been subject to sick 
headache for years, every few weeks ; 
at times so violent I was obliged to 
give up work, and keep my bed for 
the entire day. Since taking Hood's 
Sarsapaialla, I have not lost an hour 
from this cause. My wife's health is 
better than it has been for years. She 
now weighs 130 pounds, has a good 
appetite, eats anything she wants to, 
and feels like a new person. Hood's 
Sarsaparilla has proved a great benefit 
to us, and we heartily recommend it 
to any one suffering from like causes, 
or to any who need a blood purifier." 

Constant Misery. 

" I was a great sufferer from sick 
headache and dyspepsia. There was 
constant misery in my stomach. By 
advice of my neighbor, Mrs. O'Eourke, 
I made use of Hood's Sarsaparilla, 
and I can say with truth I am free 
from headache, and my food does not 
distress me. I used two bottles." 
Mrs. p. O'Gorman, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

A Methodist Minister. 

Said an amiable and philosophic Meth- 
odist minister, cured of a severe dys- 
pepsia: "Before I took Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla I felt myself alive all over, and 
I often used to think that, let damnation 
be what it might, nothing could exceed 
the horror of my creeping existence." I 



Headaches and Canker. 

"For several years I have suffered 
from constant headaches, canker in my 
mouth and pain in my stomach. For 
a year I didn't have a good night's 
rest. An eminent physician told me my 
troubles were caused by canker in my 
stomach, the bad state of my blood, and 
debility. I believe he was correct. And 
I am happy to tell you that Hood's 
Sarsaparilla has cured me. I do not 
have the headache or pain now. I tried 
many medicines of different kinds, but 
nothing did me any good till I got 
Hood's Sarsaparilla. I could not have 
worked a day last summer, had it not 
been for this valuable medicine. When 
I commenced taking it, I had no appe- 
tite, and was all run down ; but it soon 
gave me an appetite, and strength. You 
don't know how much good it did me. 
I have recommended it to my friends, 
and they have been helped very much 
by it." Mary Morse, 28 Boott Corpo- 
ration, Lowell, Mass. 

Sick Headache. 

" I have been troubled with sick head- 
ache, which seldom gave me any rest, 
and very often caused neglect of busi- 
ness. After trying several remedies, 1 
took Hood's Sarsaparilla, and I can 
truly say that in four weeks it made 
me a new man. My head ceased to 
ache, and my whole system is built 
up anew, enjoying perfect health. It 
is the best medicine I ever used, and 
after trying others, I find it has no 
equal." I. Barrington, 130 Bank Street, 
New York City. 

Felt the Effects at Once. 

"About a year ago I commenced tak- 
ing Hood's Sarsaparilla. I was all run 
down, had no appetite, my food would 
not digest, and I was troubled with 
nervous debility. After taking the first 
bottle I commenced to feel the effects 
of it at once. Have now taken four 
bottles and can say I feel like a new 
man." J. H. McCall, Eochester, N. Y. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla is made only by 
C. I. HOOD & CO., Lowell, Mass. Sold 
by all druggists. 100 Doses One Dollar. 
Take it for dyspepsia or headache. 



2b 



A Terrible Sufferer. 

One of the most severely afflicted 
tiufferers from rheumatism we ever 
met, is Mr. Henry T. Balcom, of Shirley, 
Mass. He served in the army, where 
he contracted the disease Avhich has 
since caused him such ' terrible suffer- 
ing. "When he returned home, he be- 
gan to have periodical attacks of 
rheiunatism, which gradually increp.sed 
in severity, imtil he was obliged to 
give up manual labor. Being a black- 
smith by trade, and naturally a large, 
strong man, it was a severe affliction 
to be obliged to give up business 
and be confined to his house. No 
physician or remedy did him any good, 
and in 1876 he became a helpless in- 
valid, unable to walk, or even to 
move a hand to help himself. Pre- 
vious to the spring of 1883, he found 
nothing to give him relief, although he 

TRIED NEARLY EVERYTHIIS^G. 

At that time his brother-in-law, Mr. 
Josiah Corner, of Lowell, Mass., rec- 
ommended to him Hood's Sarsaparilla, 
and he began to take it. He says It 
did him more good than all the other 
medicines he had ever taken. Before 
taking Hood's Sarsaparilla, for three 
weeks he tried every day to get from 
his chair across the room to his bed, 
a distance of twelve feet, on crutches, 
but his feeble arms and legs would 
give out before he had accomplished 
half the distance. Soon after taking 
Hood's Sarsaparilla he was able to 
walk across the room tvithout crutches, 
and in a few months was able to walk 
all about the house without any aid. 
His general health, too, was greatly 
benefited. He is still taking Hood's 
Sarsaparilla, and confidently expects 
that in time it will effect a complete 
cure. As his rheumatism has afflicted 
him twenty years, it must of neces- 
sity take time to overcome it. 

As a General Tonic. 

" I have taken Hood's Sarsaparilla for 
rheumatism, and have received great 
benefit from it. I cheerfully recom- 
mend it as a tonic for the general sys- 
tem." W. BuRDSAL, Lebanon, Ohio. 



Wliole System Benefited. 

" I have been troubled at times with 
rheumatism, the cause of which I think 
I must attribute to a want of proper 
action of my liver. Among other things, 
I had pain and great soreness in my 
left side. At night I could seldom lay on 
that side. Last spring I took Hood's 
Sarsaparilla regularly, according to the 
directions, with an occasional dose of 
Hood's Pills, until I used seven bottles ; 
and it did me a great deal of good. 
My general health has been good 
through the summer, and I have had 
but little trouble from rheumatism. 
My side does not pain me, and indeed 
I think I sleep now more on my left 
side than on my right. I think it did 
my whole system good." Mrs. E. A. 
Nichols, 5 Garland Street, Boston. 

Severe Rheuinatism. 

Mr. W. F. Wood, the popular clerk 
in the Ashley House, the leading hotel 
in Bloomington, HI., was a severe 
sufferer with rheumatism, being hardly 
able to walk. After being cured by 
Hood's Sarsaparilla, as stated in his 
testimonial below, he recommended it to 
a friend wlio also suffered from rheu- 
matism, and he, too, was entirely cured 
by Hood's Sarsaparilla. Mr. Wood says : 

" I was troubled very much with 
rheumatism in my hips, ankles, and 
wrists; in fact, I could hardly walk, 
and was confined to my bed a good 
deal of my time. I was also very 
bilious and suffered severely. I was 
recommended to try Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla, which I did. I have now taken 
four bottles and am perfectly well. I 
cheerfully recommend Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla as one of the best blood purifiers 
in the world." 

3Iuscular Rheuinatisnt. 

" I am employed in the N. D. post- 
office in this city, as a carrier. During 
our late wet spell, I have suffered 
from what the doctors call muscular 
rheumatism. I was advised to try 
Hood's Sarsaparilla. I did so, and 
now I believe I am entirely cured." 
James V. A. Proudfoot, Chicago, 111. 
Hood's Sarsaparilla purifies the blood. 



'I'd 



Superior to All Others. 

We are pleased to receive the fol- 
lowing statement from Mr. C. W. Cum- 
mings, dealer in general merchandise 
at Warren, N. H., and one of the most 
widely-known and popular storekeepers 
in his section of the State. He has 
twice heen greatly benefited by Hood's 
Sarsaparilla, and knows of many other 
people who have also received benefit 
from it. Read his statement : 

"I have sold Hood's Sarsaparilla 
and have used it myself with wonder- 
ful results. I commenced taking it 
four years ago for acidity of my 
stomach and purifying my blood, and 
its effects were such as to give per- 
fect satisfaction. Two and a half years 
ago I was attacked with a kidney 
trouble, and grew so bad that I was 
obliged to close out my business. 
After consulting what noted physicians 
I could find within reach, and trying 
the various remedies recommended for 
the trouble, I again began to take 
Hood's Sarsaparilla. In a few months 
I sufficiently recovered so that I again 
engaged in business, and for nearly 
two years past I have not lost a day 
from sickness. I consider Hood's Sar- 
saparilla superior to all other proprie- 
tary medicines of its nature upon our 
markets, being familiar with many 
gratifying results produced from its 
use among my own customers. Say 
all you can in favor of this wonderful 
remedy. The medicine will back it. 
Its popularity and demand increase 
every year, and I not only confidently 
recommend Hood's Sarsaparilla from 
my own private experience, but from 
the good reports from many whom I 
know to have used it." C. W. Cum- 
MiNGS, Warren, N. H. 

Could Not Bo Without It. 

" I have been very much troubled 
for the last seven or eight years with 
a derangement of my liver and kid- 
neys. My digestion has been bad. I 
had a severe bad feeling or pressure 
in my head. I also had severe bron- 
chitis. I tried various remedies, but 
with little or no benefit. Last year 
I commenced the use of Hood's Sar- 



saparilla. It has done me an immense 
amount of good. My whole system 
has been built up and strengthened, 
my digestion improved, my head re- 
lieved of the bad feeling, and my 
throat relieved of the severe irritation." 
Mary L. Peele, 25 Turner Street, 
Salem, Mass. 

Cold Feet — Pimples. 

" I was sick nine or ten years with 
difficulty of the kidneys and liver, and 
could get nothing to do me any good. At 
times I was unable to do my work. I had 
cold feet nearly all the time — could not 
keep them warm, and my body would 
break out with fine spots. I took differ- 
ent medicines, but could get no relief. I 
saw Hood's Sarsaparilla advertised and 
told my husband I would try one bottle, 
then I could tell if there was any good in 
it. I had taken only half of it when I 
began to feel better, and for years I have 
not felt as well as I do now. I do not 
have cold feet now, and am not troubled 
with pimples." Mrs. Fannie Mii^ler, 
1012 Ninth Street, Harrisburg, Pa. 

* Pain in the Back. 

"After seeing three doctors, I was ad- 
vised to take Hood's Sarsaparilla for a 
pain in my back, caused by standing on 
my feet while at my work. I think it 
must have been trouble with my kidneys. 
After using one bottle I felt almost well, 
and am now taking the second bottle, 
which I think will entirely cure me." 
Henry J. Standte, Kansas City, Mo. 

" Four years ago I commenced taking 
Hood's Sarsaparilla for kidney complaint, 
after enduring painful oppression in my 
back. My case was considered hopeless, 
as I passed blood. Two bottles of Hood's 
Sarsaparilla cured me, and I am now 
well. I am a farmer and am again able 
to do all kinds of work." A. Felton, 
Tunbridge, Vt. 

Good Advice. 

" I have been using Hood's Sarsaparilla 
for indigestion, kidney and liver troubles. 
It has greatly benefited me, and I would 
advise any one afflicted with similar 
troubles to give it a trial." W. H. Wait, 
depot master, Syracuse, N. Y. 



3u 



An Engineer's Wife. 

Mr. H. D. Winans, whose wife's state- 
ment is given below, is an engineer on 
the Michigan Central Eailroad. He says 
that many a night, after coming home 
from a hard day's work, he had to lose 
most of his night's rest, caring for his 
invalid wife. No medical attendance or 
other medicines seemed to do her any 
good. Bnt when she hegan to take 
Hood's Sarsaparilla, improvement hegan 
at once. She soon rested much better 
and Mr. Winans has not lost a night's 
rest since. Mrs. Winans says: 

" I have been in poor health several 
years, and have tried many medicines 
but did not receive much of any benefit 
from them. I was advised to try Hood's 
Sarsaparilla, and did so. I have now 
taken nearly three bottles and have re- 
ceived more benefit from it than from 
any other medicine I ever used. My 
trouble being caused by indigestion, I 
was very much troubled with restless- 
ness during the night, and in the morning 
would get up with a very tired feeling. 
After taking only a part of the first bottle 
I could rest well all night and feel re-^ 
freshed when I woke up. I must say 
that Hood's Sarsaparilla is all it is rec- 
ommended to be." Mrs. H. D. Winaxs, 
210 East Mason Street, Jackson, Mich. 

A7i Indiana Postmaster. 

"In justice to Hood's Sarsaparilla, I 
will give a little history of what it has 
done for my wife. For twelve years she 
has been afflicted with a stomach trouble, 
which at times would take different 
shapes. Sometimes she would suffer 
severe cramps, at other times an aching, 
gnawing sensation. She received only 
temporary relief from medicines, until a 
friend induced us to try Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla. About Nov. 15, 1884, she began to 
take it, weighing then only 113 pounds. 
She has now taken three bottles, and 
weighs 130 pounds, and she is so much 
relieved that she feels confident of perma- 
nent cure." Isaiah Phipps, Yockey, Ind. 

Pain in the Stomach. 

"Two years ago I commenced taking 
Hood's Sarsaparilla. I had been suffer- 
ing from a severe pain in my stomach for 



a long time and had tried different kinds 
of medicine but failed to get relief until I 
used Hood's Sarsaparilla. It helped me 
after taking part of a bottle. Now when 
I feel any of the symptoms I take it and 
it helps me." H. J. Cross, Bath, N. H. 

Despaired of Being Well. 

"I have been troubled with dyspepsia 
for many years, so that at times I would 
despair of ever being well. Medicine 
'did not seem to do me any good. I was 
imable to work for a number of years. 
Two years ago Hood's Sarsaparilla was 
recommended by a friend, and I got a 
bottle and used it. It did me so much 
good that I have taken several bottles, 
which have cured the dyspepsia, and I 
now consider myself entirely well. I 
cannot find words strong enough to ex- 
press satisfactorily to myself my feeling 
in favor of Hood's Sarsaparilla. It has 
done everything for me, and I cheerfully 
recommend it to all needing medicine." 
Mrs. S. M. Beede, Marblehead, Mass. 

"I can certify to the above as being 
true, and also say that other members of 
the family are using Hood's Sarsaparilla 
with good results." S. M. Beede. 

All- Gone Feeling. 

" I have been troubled with dyspepsia. 
I had but little appetite, and what I did 
eat distressed me, or did me little good. 
In an hour after eating, I would experi- 
ence a faintness; or tired, all-gone feel- 
ing, as though I had not eaten anything. 
My trouble, I think, was aggravated by 
my business, which is that of a painter, 
and from being, more or less, shut up in 
a room with fresh paint. Last spring I 
took Hood's Sarsaparilla — took three 
bottles. It did me an immense amount 
of good. It gave me an appetite, and my 
food relished and satisfied the craving I 
had previously experienced. It relieved 
me of that faint, tired, all-gone feeling. 
I have felt so nmch better since I took 
Hood's Sarsaparilla, that I am most 
happy to add my recommendation to the 
many before me, of the great value of 
Hood's Sarsaparilla." George A. Page, 
Watertown, Mass. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla is prepared by 
C. I. HOOD & CO., Lowell, Mass. Sold 
by all druggists. 100 Doses One Dollar. 



31 



African Fever. 

African fever is seldom found in this 
country, and the remarliahle cure which 
Hood's Sarsaparilla effected in the case 
of Sheriff Nickerson, as described in his 
intelligent statement below, serves to 
further illustrate the wonderful curative 
power which Hood's Sarsaparilla has 
over all diseases which can be expelled 
by strengthening the system and puri- 
fying the blood, 

"In 18C4 I contracted the fever in 
Africa, which stuck to me closer than 
a brother, until 1879, Up to the latter 
date, I was sorely afflicted. I would 
hardly get up from one attack before 
another would take me, continuing a 
month or more ; sometimes for two or 
three months, as in one attack. When I 
got out from that, I was 

IfEARLY PLAYED OUT. 

After this the chills left me, and I 
was troubled with a dumb ague, as it is 
called. This finally changed to what I 
called a 'boo-hoo' fever — a feeling that 
all your friends had departed, and you 
longed to go too. During all this time I 
was very nervous, sleeping very litt'd, 
and then under the influence of opiates. 
" About this time, say in 1879, a friend 
advised my trying Hood's Sarsaparilla 
(my weight was then 125-128 pounds ). I 
objected, as I supposed, like other medi- 
cines, it would only give jne temporary 
relief, and prolong a miserable existence; 
and, as I had already been dead, even as 
my friends supposed, I thought it useless 
to try. Yet, at his urgent solicitation, I 
purcliased one bottle 

AS AN EXPERIMENT, 

and used it according to directions. I 
found relief, so far as sleep was con- 
cerned, if in no other way ; that is, I 
took Hood's Sarsaparilla four times, 
daily, viz.: morning, noon, at tea-time, 
and at bed-time. The latter dose was 
taken for sleep, and it worked hke a 
charm. I would go to bed and sleep the 
night through, as I had not done for 
years. Soon I felt that my health was 
Improving, and I continued its use for 
several years (say fifty bottles), as a 
purifier of the blood ; and I am happy 
to say that, in my opinion. i;f it had not 



been for Hood's Sarsaparilla 1 shouiu 
not to-day be writing this; but have 
shuffled off this mortal coil long ago. 

"My business, that of deputy-sheriff 
for the last fourteen years, requires me 
to be up and about ; and now I am about, 
as my friends can testify, early and late. 
]\Iy age is sixty-five years ; my weight 
has increased thirty pounds (making it 
158 pounds) since taking Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla, and I am feeling as though I was 
a well man, which I am, comparatively. 

"I can fully endorse Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla as a remedy to those who are 
afflicted as I have been. Many of my 
friends, as they see the change in my 
appearance and condition, have inquired 
what I have been using, and, when I 
informed them Hood's Sarsaparilla, they 
have purchased it and have used it with 
benefit. 

"In the above, I have stated my case 
in a rambling way ; but it is all fact, as 
any one can learn by writing to New 
Bedford, where I am well known, not 
only as to my present state of health, 
but my former condition. 

"Any person afflicted as I have been, 
wishing to inquire as to any particular 
symptom of the disease, can write to me 
direct, as I am fully acquainted with 
African fever, its outgoings, and its 
incomings, having known it intimately 
for the last fifteen years, and it was of 
my own impoi'tation. 

" I cannot say too much in favor of 
Hood's Sarsaparilla. It has done won- 
ders for me." J. W. Nickerson, 34 
Eighth Street. Office as Deputy-Sheriff, 
34 North Water St., New Bedford, Mass. 

Tltiqxialifled Itecoftimendation. 

The well known house of George C. 
Goodwin & Co., Boston, send us this 
gratifying statement : "We are having 
an excellent demand for Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla. We think it one of the best medi- 
cines we ever sold for purifying the blood 
and for spring debility, and do not hesi- 
tate to give it our unqualified recommen- 
dation. Our customers speak highly of it, 
and their opinions confirm our judgment.'* 

Hood's Sarsaparilla is made only by 
C. I. HOOD & CO., Lowell, Mass. Sold 
by all druggists. 100 Doses One Dollar. 



d2 



Coughs, Etc. 

It has always been admitted, regard- 
ing the advertising of C. I. Hood & Co., 
tliat we liave never made any claims as 
to the curative powers of Hood's Sar- 
saparilla, which were absurd. And 
when we recommend Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla as a cough remedy, some of our 
readers may think that the claim is a 
peculiar and improbable one. But it 
should be remembered that sometimes 
coughs become constitutional, and often 
when the usual cough remedies fail to 
reach the trouble. Hood's Sarsaparilla, 
being a constitutional remedy, can effect 
a complete cure. Below we give state- 
ments from 1 eople who have been 
cured of such affections by Hood's Sar- 
saparilla. 

" I feel it my duty to speak in recom- 
mendation of that truly wonderful medi- 
cine, Hood's Sarsaparilla. In reading 
over the testimonials published, I have 
not seen any recommending Hood's Sar- 
saparilla as a cough and lung remedy. 
But I can testify that it is the best 
remedy for lung trouble that I have ever 
taken. When all other medicines failed 
to relieve me, when I could not sleep 
nights, nor work days, I tried Hood's 
Sarsaparilla as a last resort. It worked 
like magic. I had not taken it over 
three days when I was nearly well of 
my cough. I kept on taking it till I had 
used half a bottle, when my cough had 
entirely ceased, and my lungs felt as 
strong as ever. I keep it on hand, and 
if I get cold or cough or feel bad in any 
way, I take a few doses. I think, and 
have told my customers to whom I have 
sold the remedy, that if it had not been 
for Hood's Sarsaparilla I should have 
died with consumption. I can recom- 

-^nd it to every one who is afliicted with 

mt,. -^nble." Carlos S. Batchelder, 

lungtro. 

Fairlee, Vt. ^^^^,^ ^^^^^^^ 

Six Years' o , j^^^^^.^ ^^^.^^_ 
" I used three bottles ol ^d, i had 
parilla and it did me lots of go^ -^^^y j 
been cougbing for six years, and li^ 
do not cough at all, unless I take cola. 
I think it is the best medicine that can 
be bought. Every one thought I was in 
consumption. I was for about two years 



just able to stay up, now I am in good 
health. I am thankful for Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla." Albina Martin, 38 Washmg- 
ton Corporation, Lawrence, Mass. 



Elder Cady of Providence. 

" In October, 1883, I took a severe cold, 
which produced inflammation in my bron- 
chial tubes, lungs and chest, followed by 
a dry, hard cough and pain or oppression 
across my chest. I also lost my appetite 
and suffered much for five or six weeks. 
I then used one bottle of Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla, which restored me to my usual 
health. I am in my eighty-third year." 
J. Cady, Providence, R. I. 

Severe Cough Cured. 

"From infancy I was troubled with a 
severe cough every winter. Four years 
ago I commenced taking Hood's Sarsar 
parilla, and have had no cough since." 
Arthur L. Brown, 800 Eighth Avenue, 
New York, N. Y. 

Bronchitis. 

" I have suffered severely for the last 
three years with bronchitis, and have 
been unsuccessful in obtaining relief, till 
I obtained Hood's Sarsaparilla, which 
has cured me." Mrs. Mary D. Proctor, 
Lawrence, Mass. 

Throat and Lungs. 

A well-known and highly respected 
citizen of Springfield, Ohio, sends us the 
following : " Since my return from the 
army I have been greatly annoyed by a 
throat and lung trouble. A tew years 
ago I was persuaded to try Hood's Sar- 
saparilla, and am liappy to state that I 
received great benefit from it. I can 
cheerfully recommend Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla." A. G. Bet-hard, Springfield, O. 

" I took Hood's Sarsaparilla for cough 
and cold, and for the blood, and fee) 
greatly benefited by the use of it." Mrs. 
Callie Curtis, Springfield, Ohio. 

" I am practising medicine, and can 
recommend Hood's Sarsaparilla with 
confidence." Dr. H. Benedict, Spring- 
port, Ind. 

' I have tried Hood's Sarsaparilla, and 
' in it perfect satisfaction." iD^t 
fouuu ^,j^j.(^|i,je Street, St. Louis. Mo. 
Jewell, ^ 



Salt-Itheum, 

Eczema, commonly called Salt-Eheum, 
is a vesicular disease of the skin, cliar- 
acterizedby watery blisters, smaller than 
tliose of herpes and larger than ordinary 
sudamina (a fine eruption cf vesicles on 
the skin), such as are sometimes seen in 
the difficulty known as " prickly heat." 

Eczema is often accompanied by in- 
tense itching, and is frequently trans- 
formed into a pustula, or scabbing dis- 
ease. It is generally chronic. Its treat- 
ment is botli local and general. Hood's 
Olive Ointment is an excellent application. 
Hood's Sarsaparilla, used in numerous 
extremely obstinate cases of Salt-Eheum, 
has by its great toning, alterative and 
purifying elfects upon the system and the 
blood, produced the happiest results, and 
permanently cured those who had pre- 
viously been great sufferers. VJ^e recom- 
mend them to your consideration and 
trial, conCdent by past experierce that 
they will not disappoint your most san- 
guine expectations. Hood's Sarsaparilla 
is prepared only by C. I. Hood & Co., 
Lowell, ]\Iass. Price one dollar a bottle; 
six for five dollars. Hood's Olive Oint- 
ment, 25 cents a box. 

Messrs. C. I. Hood & Co.: Three or 
four weeks ago I found one of your Cook 
Books ; and your Sarsaparilla was recom- 
mended in such high terms that I have a 
desire to try it, also the Olive Ointment. 
I have succeeded in finding the Sarsapa- 
rilla, but not the Ointment, so I wish you 
to send me by mail a box. My son has a 
humor, and if it cures him you can have 
a testimonial that will be worth some- 
thing. You may direct to him, Edgar F. 
Whitman. Yours tinily, Adeline M. Whit- 
man, Eaynham, Jlass., May 12th. 

C. I. Hood & Co. : Gentlemen— * * * * 
For seven years I have had ring-worm 
humor and salt-rhcuni so badly that my 
body was covered with raw sores, as also 
•was my head and face. I have had many 
doctors in the last seven years; none of 
them could cure me. One of them told 
me that I could never be cured. One day 
my mother was in the city of Taunton and 
found one of your Cook Books, ? 
reading it I found many people + 



to cures from the use of your Sarsaparilla 
and Olive Ointment. I felt forced to try 
it, although I had seen a great many 
things advertised that never did me any 
good. I have now taken two small bottles 
and one large one of Sarsaparilla, and 
used three boxes of Ointment, and I call 
myself cured. Nothing can be seen of 
this humor but the dim outlines of the 
sores. I am gratefully yours, Edgar F. 
"VVlntman, Eaynham, Mass., Aug. 7th. 

Messrs. C. I. Hood & Co., Lowell, Mass.: 
Gentlemen— It gives me pleasure to say a 
word in regard to the excellence of Hood's 
Sarsaparilla and its curative powers. I 
suuered with salt-rhemn eight years, and 
found no relief in the innumerable patent 
medicines I used, nor in the advice and 
medicines of numerous physicians whom 
I freely employed. I noticed in Hood's 
Cook Book cases similar to mine cured 
by Hood's Sarsaparilla, which inspired 
my confidence. I gave it a trial and 
it cm-cd me. My son was aluicled 
with salt-rheum, also, and it cured him. 
These are the facts, and you can use them 
as you wish. Mrs. Carrie M. Higgins, 
Gloucester, Mass., January l, 1881. 



I sold Mrs. Higgins the Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla referred to in her letter, and know 
the facts are as stated by her. I am 
pleased to state in addition to this that I 
have sold a large amount of Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla and it has given universal satis- 
faction. I recommend it as the best 
blood purifier. W. J. Maddocks, Apothe- 
cary, 107 T»Iain Street, Gloucester, Mass., 
Jan. 3, 1881. 



Gents— Some three months since I pro- 
cured of Mr. C. A. Smith, our druggist, a 
bottle of Hood's Sarsaparilla for my son, 
who was at that time troubled with a 
scrofulous humor. He had several ' 
ugly sores between the ankle and 
his right leg, and other ''^- 
dif?erent parts of his b*" 
only two bottles'" 
sores have ''" 
be fr^' 



Hood's SCLT 




THE MOST APPB0VE3 

ALTERATIVE TOKIC AMTD 

BLOOD-PUSirriNS REMEBIES 

or THE VEGETABLB 

KINGDOM. 



Tttry hoia, of Bnul' 
w^lUttaUnt far iht wi»1 



rf <h» qunniUi/ofc 
f„r tht ta$nt swim 

ana; 



Prepared only ty 

a L HOOD 8^ CO, 

Apothecaries, 
Zow&U, — Jifass. 



Price, One dollar. 



^^This Engraving is one- 
-^rth the size of Hood's 
^arilla. 



Will 




powi 

dioi 

Las.. 014 485 492 5 

to spring and hot iveather — Head- 
ache , Dizziness J Constipation , Bil- 
iousness, Loss of Appetite^ General 
Debility y Boih, Pains m the Back, 
Kidney Complaint, Female Weak- 
nesses, Catarrh, Pimples, Humors, 
Pain in tlie Bones, Syphilitic 
Affections, Ulcers, Sores, Tumors, 
Salt Bheum, Scald Head, and all 
diseases arising from an impure 
state or low condition of the blood, 
Hood'^s Sarsaparilla works upon 
the Kidneys, the Liver, and the 
Bowels. It enters the circulation 
of the blood immediately, purifies, 
vitalizes, and enriches this vital 
fluid; and reaching every part of 
the human system, it tones, invigor- 
ates, strengthens, and rejunevates all 
the organs and tissues of the body. 
It is nature's great health-restorer, 
and is not equaled by any other 
medicine. Sold by all Druggists, 
one dollar; six for five dollars. 



PRESENTED BY 



"" CO. . . Apothecaries, 

-'te Post-Office, 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 

014 485 492 5 



