
Nfc 



^8 



LIBRARY OF., CONGRESS. 

x^ 

%tp.. A:_ @opijra$ % 

Shelf _.J2.35' 



UNITED STATES OE AMERICA. 



«4 $100.00 PRIZE DINNERS. >» 



No. 25. 
ONE HUNDRED 



PRIZE DINNERS; 

OR, HOW TO PROVIDE A GOOD DINNER FOR 

Four Persons for One Dollar. 



Compiled from the columns of the New York Press, 

the publishers of which offered a prize of 

$100.00 for the best Bill of Fare offered. 



AI* INVAUTABI.E GUIDE FOR PERSONS OP MODERATE 
INCOME TO PROVIDE GOOD POOD AT A I^OW PRICE. 



J. S. OGILVIE, PUBLISHER, 57 Rose St., New York ; 182 Wabash Ave., Chicago. 

THE BED COVER SERIES, No. 28. Issued Quarterly. Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year. January, 1889. Entered at 
New York Poit-Office at Second-class matter, 



TRADE l^^/MSM MARK 




O- o. 

Cotton Seed Lard 

has all the conveniences of Hog- lard and a number of 
advantages over it. It heats much more readity, is 
less liable to burn, has very little of the disagreeable 
odor — which is so noticeable in frying fat — and leaves 
no taste of the Lard whatever in the articles fried in it. 
Biscuits made from it are much lighter than when 
Hog lard is used, pie-crust more delicate and, while 
short and crisp, is not so greasy as that made from 
Hog lard. Oysters, Croquettes, Fish Balls, etc., 
fried in it reach the perfection to which cooks aspire in 
preparing these articles — brown, diw, and free from 
grease. C. O. P. COTTON SEED LARD can be used 
in fine cakes instead of butter where Hog lard would 
injure their flavor. — In fact, for all frying purposes 
C. O. P. COTTON SEED LARD is more healthful 
than Hog lard, being much less greasy and consequently 
more digestible. — It is, in short, absolutely pure, 
wholesome, and economical. Try it, and you will like it. 

It is Anti-Dyspeptic, is warranted free from 
Hog fat, is Pure, Wholesome, and Economical. 
For sale hy all Grocers. Send for Illustrated 
Pamphlet, entitled: 

"SOME THINGS ABOUT LARD." 

Branch of 

The COTTON OIL PRODUCT CO., 

ffo. 19 W. 42d St., Bet. 5th and 6th Ave§., 

3STEW TOEK. 



ONE HUNDRED 



PRIZE DINNERS; 



OR, 



Haw to Provide a Good Dinner for Four 
Persons for One Dollar. 



LSI*, 



AN INVALUABLE GUIDE FOR PERSONS OF MODERATE INCOME 
TO PROVIDE GOOD FOOD AT A LOW PRICE. 



Containing also One Hundred and Fifty Recipes for Cooking 
y ' and Serving Eggs. 



{Copyright, 1889, by J. S. Ogilvie.) 




BiU of Fare No. 4 secured the Prize of $100 in gold, 

J. S. OGILVIE, PUBLISHES, 

57 Rose Street, New York; 79 Wabash Avenue, Chicago. 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 



utes, stirring it all the time ; remove from the fire, and add 
a little salt and a large teaspoonful of lemon extract; allow 
the custard to cool, pour over the rice balls, and serve. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 2. 

SOUP. 

Tomato, with Rice. 

FISH. 

Baked Bass, with Parsley. 

POULTRY. 

Chicken Fricassee. 

MEATS. 

Veal Chops Breaded, Tomato Sauce. 

VEGETABLES. 

French-Fried Potatoes. Stewed Carrots. 

Pickled Beets. 

DESSERT. 

Coffee. Apple Cake. 

Grapes. 

COST. 

Chicken, 25 cents ; fish, 15 ; tomatoes, 8 ; half-pound lard, 
4 ; loaf of bread, 5 ; grapes, 5 ; cutlets, 12 ; four potatoes, 3 ; 
bunch beets, 3 ; three carrots, 2 ; parsely, 2 ; quarter-pound of 
butter, 7 ; apples and flour, 6 ; milk, 3. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

For the soup, take three quarters of a can of tomatoes and 
four cups of water, some pepper and salt (a pinch of each), 
and boil slowly for fifteen minutes. 

The remaining one quarter can of tomatoes, together with 
a teaspoonful of flour and a little pepper and salt, stewed for 
five minutes, will make the sauce for the cutlets. 

The fish, after being washed clean and dried, is put in a 
pan with a spoonful of flour and a little water. Baste the 
fish with this sauce occasionally while cooking. The fish 
will take ten minutes to cook in a hot oven. Serve cut into 
four pieces, and pour over it a little melted butter, and trim 
with parsley. 

For the fricassee, cut up the chicken and put it in a me- 
dium sized stewpot, with three cups of water, a teaspoonful 
of flour, and some finely chopped parsley. Cook slowly for 
one hour. 

Four small veal cutlets (off the rib) will be enough. Roll 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 5 

them in bread crumbs and fry for ten minutes over a slow 
fire, so as not to burn the crumbs ; and when ready to serve 
pour the sauce made from the tomatoes over them in sep- 
arate plates. 

Cut potatoes into long, narrow pieces, and put one quarter 
of a pound of lard into a small saucepan. When the lard is 
very hot, put in the potatoes and let them cook for ten min- 
utes, when they will be of a light brown color. Serve in a 
large platter. 

The beets should be prepared in the morning, when the 
stove is not in use for other cooking, and then allowed to 
cool. One bunch of beets must be put in boiling water and 
allowed to cook for one hour. When cool, cut into slices and 
pour vinegar over them. Serve from a large dish. 

Cut three large carrots into small pieces and put into 
saucepan with sufficient water to cover them ; add a pinch 
of salt, and boil for fifteen minutes. When cooked, pour oft' 
nearly all the water, add a lump of butter, a teaspoonful of 
flour, and some finely chopped parsley. Then put them on 
the stove again to stew slowly for five minutes. Serve in 
small side dishes. 

For the apple cake, cut into eighths five apples. Take two 
cups of flour, one cup of water, half a cup of lard, one cup 
sugar. Mix together, and roll out into dough large enough 
to cover an ordinary baking-pan. Grease the pan before 
putting in the dough with the cut apples on top, and bake 
slowly for a half -hour. 

One half cup of coffee-beans, when ground, will make four 
cups of coffee ; and one pound of grapes will be sufficient. 
Get a five-cent loaf of bread and three cents' worth of milk. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 3. 

SOUP. 

Tomato. 

ROAST. 

Beef a la Mode. 

Riced Potatoes. Macaroni. Turnips. 

Cranberry Sauce. Bread. 

SALAD. 

Plain Celery. 

DESSERT. 

Snow Pudding. Grapes. Coffee. 

COST. 

Tomato soup, 8 cents; beef a la mode, 36 cents; riced po- 
tatoes, 3 cents ; macaroni, 2 cents : celery, 6 cents ; turnips. 



6 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

4 cents ; cranberry sauce, 10 cents ; bread, 5 cents ; snow pud- 
ding, 10 cents ; coffee, 8 cents ; grapes, 8 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Cranberry Sauce.— Wash a pint of cranberries, put water 
over to thoroughly cover them ; boil till soft ; add two thirds 
of a cup of sugar, and simmer a few minutes. 

Bread or Rolls.— Heat, to nearly boiling, two thirds of a 
cup of milk ; put in a piece of lard the size of a walnut and 
half a teaspoonful of salt; when cool add a heaping tea- 
spoonful of sugar and a quarter of a soft yeast cake which 
has been dissolved in a quarter of a cupful of water; stir in 
flour to make a stiff batter. If stirred up early in the morn- 
ing, it will be light by noon. Then add a bit of soda dis- 
solved in a teaspoonful of water; knead thoroughly; roll 
half an inch thick and cut the quantity out into a dozen 
squares; melt a little butter and lard together, spread one 
side and fold together ; they will come up light in half an 
hour or less, and bake in ten minutes. If desired, they can 
be stirred up over night, kneaded in the morning, and set in 
the ice chest until time to rise for the baking. 

Biced Potato.— Boil three good sized potatoes, pour off the 
water so they may become dry, and put them through a veg- 
etable colander. If one is not at hand, the potatoes can be 
mashed and beaten lightly, to take the place of the riced. 

Macaroni.— Break six long sticks into small pieces, put 
into boiling water that has been salted, and boil one hour. 
Pour into a colander to drain; add salt; put into dish ready 
for the table ; sift a little pepper over the top. 

Celery.— Wash and scrape the white stalks of half a bunch 
of celery; keep in the ice chest until the dinner hour, so that 
it mav be crisp. 

Turnips.— Boil until soft, mash, and add a little butter and 
salt; dish up and sift with pepper. 

Tomato Soup.— Take one pint of canned tomatoes. Let 
it cook sufficiently to go through a sieve easily, and put it 
through with a potato-masher. Eetum to the stove, add 
a small half-saltspoonful of baking-soda, a teaspoonful of 
flour moistened with water, two thirds of a eup of milk. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper. Let it boil, and the soup is ready 
to serve. If thicker than desired, add a little water. 

Beef a la Mode— Take three pounds cross rib, and be sure 
your butcher gives you a piece of suet with it. Wash, and 
make incisions in the meat, and put in small pieces of the 
suet. Take a flat or round bottomed iron kettle. Cut the 
remainder of the suet and lay at the bottom. Slice an onion 
over that, and then put in the meat, salt, pepper, and a pinch 
of cinnamon, with water enough to cover it all. Coolc 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 7 

slowly three or four hours till the water is boiled away. 
Brown it slowly, turning often until it is nicely browned on 
both sides. Lay on a platter and garnish with celery leaves. 
Pour water into the kettle and thicken with a teaspoonful of 
flour for a gravy to serve with the meat. 

Snoiv Pudding. — Put into a pail one large cupful of hot 
water, two even table-spoonfuls of corn starch moistened in 
a little cold water, the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth. Set the pail into a kettle of boiling water, and let it 
cook ten minutes, stirring often. Wet four cups with cold 
water, so that the snow will turn out easily. Divide it 
equally in the cups; set on ice to get thoroughly cold. It 
can be kept on ice two days witnout harm. When wanted 
for table, turn into saucers and put the custard around it. 

Custard for the Pudding. — The yelks of two eggs, two 
thirds cup sugar, a very small bit of butter ; should be well 
beaten with two thirds of a cup of milk. A quart measure is 
handy to make it in. Set it in water to cook until it thickens, 
but do not let it curdle. Flavor with lemon or vanilla. 

Coffee. — Two heaping iron spoonfuls of coffee, ground fine 
in the home coffee-mill and made in strainer coffee-pot, is 
enough for four people. 



BILL OF FAEE NO. 4. 

Oysters on Half Shell. 

Tomato Soup. 

Breaded Lamb Chops (five or six). 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Lettuce Salad. French Dressing. 

Charlotte-Russe. 

Coffee. 

COST. 

Twenty-four oysters, 24 cents; soup, 9 cents; chops, 32 
cents; potatoes, 6 cents; salad, 8 cents; charlotte-russe, 16 
cents ; coffee, 5 cents. 

PREPARATION. 

Tomato Soup.— Let one half can tomatoes and one half 
pint of water come to a boil. Rub one heaping table-spoon- 
ful of flour and one of butter, with a little tomato. Stir into 
the boiling mixture, season with one half teaspoonful of salt 
and one half teaspoonful of sugar. Boil ten minutes. Rub 
through a sieve, and serve with toasted bread. (Cut the 
bread in thin squares, butter, and place in a hot oven.) 

Chops. —Dip in one beaten egg and fine crumbs, seasoned. 

French Dressing,— WLxk one saltspoonful of salt and one 



8 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DlNNEKS. 

half saltspoonful pepper in a cup. Add one table-spoonf id of 
oil. When thoroughly mixed, add one table-spoonful of 
vinegar and two more table-spoonfuls of oil. 

Charlotte-russe.~Ma,de with pieces of stale sponge cakes 
and flavored whipped cream, piled in the centre; or they 
can be bought for four cents apiece. 

Notes. — To make mashed potatoes look, as well as taste, 
deliciously, buy a potato-masher that is full of fine holes, 
through which the potato or any vegetable is easily pressed, 
and it looks like vermicelli. 

Filtered coffee is much better than boiled coffee. 



BILL OF FARE NO 5. 

Mutton Soup. 

Squares of Toast. 

Breast of Mutton. 

Boiled Rice. Scalloped Potatoes. 

Oyster Salad. 

Bread. 

Squash Pie. Cheese. 

Black Coffee. 

COST. 

Mutton, four pounds of breast, 50 cents ; six white pota- 
toes, 3 cents ; one quarter pound of rice, 3 cents ; one head 
of celery, 8 cents ; three eggs, 7 cents ; one and a half pounds 
of squash, 4 cents; flour, 2 cents; one quarter pound of 
cheese, 4 cents; olive oil, 3 cents; onion and parsley, 1 cent; 
a dozen and a half of oysters, 7 cents; coffee, 5 cents; part 
of a loaf of bread, 3 cents ; total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Mutton Soup. — Take the liquor in which the breast of 
mutton has been boiled,— there should be a pint and a half — , 
add one small onion and the green from a head of celery. 
Let all boil slowly for an hour; then strain through a col- 
ander. Put over fire again, with a handful of vermicelli, a 
pinch of red pepper, a pinch of curry pow T er, and, half a pint 
of milk. Boil ten minutes. Have a little chopped parsley 
in the soup tureen, and serve with little squares of toast — 
two slices of bread with outer crust cut off, cut in squares 
and browned well in quick oven. Serve in little fancy 
plates, putting a spoonful of squares in each soup plate be- 
fore putting in the soup. 

Breast of Mutton. — Put the mutton in three quart* of 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 9 

cold water. Salt and pepper well after having boiled an 
hour. Boil until the bones come out easily. Press it be- 
tween two plates under a weight, and let it remain all night. 
The next day put the mutton in the oven, cover and heat 
slowly, then chop a little parsley or any sweet herb liked 
with an onion, add an egg. a little salt, red and white pepper. 
Score the mutton. Spread the mixture over the top, and 
over that a layer of bread crumbs, with small bits of butter 
here and there, and, when a light brown, serve with rice and 
sauce. Put the mutton on the middle of a hot platter, with 
little hills of rice all around, and curled parsley. For the 
sauce, take two table-spoonfuls of browned flour, add a little 
butter to gravy in baking-pan, rub smooth, add half a pint 
of boiling water, a dessert-spoonful of Worcestershire sauce. 

Scalloped Potatoes. — Pare six medium -sized white pota- 
toes. Throw in cold water for an hour or so, then cut in thin 
slices. Put bits of butter in a baking dish, a layer of pota- 
toes, a little salt, pepper, and butter, a sprinkling of flour, 
then another layer of potatoes, and so on. Over the top 
put bread crumbs and bits of butter, pouring over the whole 
a tumblerful of milk. Bake in a good oven one hour, or un- 
til it is light brown on top. Serve in the same pan, with a 
napkin wound round. 

Oyster Salad. — Take a dozen and a half of oysters; scald 
in their own liquor, with the addition of a half cupful of 
strong vinegar, a pinch of red pepper, a pinch of white 
pepper, and a little salt. Drain. When cold, cut the hard 
part of the oysters off and chop fine. Care should be taken 
not to hurt the appearance of the soft part of the oysters. 
Cut a head of celery into small dice, scraping the greenish 
stalks and only wiping off the white ones ; mix the oysters 
and celery lightly together, and, just before they go to the 
table, pour over the following dressing : 

Dressing. — To the yelk of one egg beaten well, add slowly, 
drop by drop, a wineglassful of olive oil, a pinch of mustard, 
salt, and pepper, dissolved in a teaspoonful of vinegar, added 
at the last. Keep the dish and oil very cold while making. 
Pat on ice in a cold place, and pour it over the salad just 
before sending to table. 

Squash Pie.— Pare and cut a pound and a half of yellow 
winter squash in small pieces, steam until soft, rub through 
a colander to make perfectly smooth ; when cold, beat one 
egg, mix with cup of light brown sugar, half teaspoonful of 
salt, a teaspoonful of ground cinnamon or giager, a bit of 
melted butter, and a tumblerful of milk; mix all well to- 
gether, pour into a deep pie- tin lined with following made 
paste : One cup of cold ice water, a piece of lard the size of 
an egg, a bit of butter, a good pinch of baking-powder, and 



10 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

a little salt ; mix all at once, with flour, enough to make a 
soft paste that can be rolled thin, and line a pan that has 
been well rubbed with lard ; bake the pie half an hour in 
good oven, or until solid and a light brown color. It had 
better be made the day before it is needed. Serve with 
little squares of cheese in a small plate or dish. 

Coffee.— To settle coffee and impart a fine flavor, nothing 
is equal to an egg. One fresh egg, washed, then crumble 
shell and all in a cup ; add two table-spoonfuls of water ; beat 
well together. This will keep in a refrigerator several days, 
and will settle a pound of coffee — that is, one third Mocha 
and two thirds Java: five tablespoon Puis of fine ground 
coffee, one tablespoonful of egg. Pour over two thirds of a 
pint of boiling water, and let all boil well for eight minutes. 
Put in a teaspoonful of cold water and send to table. 

Rice. — Wash one quarter pound of rice until the last 
water is left clear; then boil into a large vessel with at least 
four quarts of salted water; allow twenty minutes to drain 
in colander. 

Bread. — Cut squares of bread and put on each napkin; 
cut the rest in delicate slices, and put on pretty bread-tray or 
plate, and pass during dinner. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 6. 

Hot Bouillon. 

Roast Ham. 

Omelette. 

Potato Souftle. 

Rolls and Butter. 

Black Coffee. 

COST. 

Bouillon, 15 cents; ham, 50 cents; omelette, 10 cents; 
potato souffle, 3 cents ; rolls and butter, 10 cents ; apple pie 
with puff paste, 16 cents ; coffee, 6 cents ; total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Bouillon. — Take one pound of round of beef perfectly free 
from fat. three pints of cold water, four whole peppers, two 
cloves, one onion, one half of a medium -sized carrot, one 
half small turnip, one half teaspoonfnl celery seed, and cook 
all day in a porcelain double saucepan, adding the vegeta- 
bles and spice the last half of the time, as they only need to 
be just done, not enough to impart a dead flavor, which 
should be sparkling. Strain, while hot, through a piece of 
cheese cloth. When cold ; remove every particle of fat, and 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 11 

pour carefully off, all but the sediment. If not perfectly 
clear, as it should be if managed carefully, clear with the 
white of an egg beaten and allowed to come to a boil. Color 
slightly with a little burned sugar. To be heated the last 
moment and served in cups, with a thin slice of lemon in 
each cup. 

Roast Ham. — Visit the market yourself, select a nice little 
ham, not too fat. Ask the butcher to give you the butt end 
cut as far as they will give for forty cents. Place it on the 
fire in cold water and have it slowly simmer, turning fre- 
quently, until just tender; remove the skin, place it on a flat 
tin, and powder with sugar all over well ; place it in the 
oven and brown nicely. It will, if properly done, look very 
handsome and be delicious. Better place it on a trivet in 
your tin, and have a little water in it. 

Omelette.— Three fresh eggs, salt, and pepper, one table- 
spoonful flour ; beat the yelks, with the flour, salt, and pep- 
per, adding the milk; beat the whites with a silver fork on a 
plate until stiff enough to bear up an egg; make two or one, 
as seems best; have an iron frying-pan, very hot and 
greased with a little lard; stir the whites lightly into the 
mixture,— not too much, — and pour into your pan; when 
cooked, which will be very quickly, roll over and over, tip- 
ping up the pan as you do so. Serve as quickly as possible 
to get from the stove to the table. 

Potato Souffle. — Select two very large potatoes, wash 
carefully, and bake just to a turn; cut in halves, removing 
the potato and mashing finely on a plate, adding salt, butter, 
and cream. Fill the shells with your potato, make a little 
hole in the centre, and put in butter, laige as a pea; shake a 
little pepper and brown, the last thing a few moments, in the 
oven. 

Rolls. — Two full teacups of pastry flour, one table-spoon 
of melted butter, one half pint rich milk, salt, and half a 
cent's worth yeast. Scald the milk and pour over the flour, 
adding the other things; mix to a soft dough. When light, 
will make sixteen rolls, moulded and rolled with your hand. 
Place each one in the pan, and when done rub the side of 
each with a litte molten butter. When nicely light, bake. 

Apple Pie with Puff Paste.— Make on a common sized tea 
plate, covering the bottom with a little common paste made 
with a little lard, flour, and water. Pare three or four green- 
ing apples, slicing them into the plate covered with the 
crust,~packing the pieces in closely enough to have a fat pie. 
Wash two ounces of best butter in ice- water thoroughly, 
pressing dry, making a little flat cake the size of a tumbler. 
Have two ounces of pastry flour in a bowl, which mix into 
a dough the same consistency as your butter, moulding and 



12 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DONERS. 

pounding well; place both on ice fifteen minutes, roll the 
dough to twice the size of your butter, putting that at one 
end, and, after dredging over a little flour, fold over the 
butter, and. with the rolling-pin, pound out into a flat the size 
of a plate; dredge with flour, fold twice, pound out a little, 
and place on ice fifteen minutes; repeat this twice more, 
then, after another fifteen minutes, roll very thin into a piece 
as long as you can about a foot w in width, and, commencing 
at one end, roll over and over carefully; place on ice half 
an hour, roll this out carefully as near the size of your pie 
as is possible, and cover; bake in a hot oven an hour; upon 
taking it out remove the cover by slipping a knife around, 
mash your apple, add a full three quarters of a teacup of 
granulated sugar, very little piece of butter, grate over nut- 
meg, and replace your cover. 

Coffee.— Four table-spoonfuls, with the egg shells from 
your omelette, and a pint of boiling water, will make four 
little after-dinner cups of coffee. 



BILL OF FAEE NO. 7. 

SOUP. 

Clear Amber. 

MEATS. 

Oysters a la Creme. 
Chicken Barbecue. Currant Jelly. 

VEGATABLES. 

Mashed Potatoes. Celery. 

Cauliflower, with Cream Dressing. 

SALAD. 

Potato Salad, with Celery. 

DESSERT. 

Apple Meringue Pie. 
Coffee. 

COST. 

Beef, 5 cents ; veal, 5 ; one onion, one sprig of parsley and 
one carrot, 2; oysters, one pint, 15; chicken, 30; currant 
jelly, 5; potatoes, 3; cauliflower, 5; celery, 3; cabbage. 3; 
bread, 5; butter, 4: sugar, 4; coffee, 2; eggs (two), 4; apples 
(two), 2; milk, one pint, 3. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Amber Soap.— Cut the veal and beef into small pieces. 
Put a spoonful of butter into a soup kettle to melt. Put in 



6ne hundred prize dinners. IS 

the meat and stir over the fire until brown; cover the 
kettle, remove to the back part of the stove, and let it 
simmer gently for twenty-five minutes. Then pour over it 
one quart of cold water and let it simmer for tbree hours. 
Now add a small onion, a carrot, a potato, a sprig of parsley, 
and a stalk of celery, all chopped. Let it boil slowly for 
one hour longer, and strain. Put in a cool place, and, when 
ready to serve, take off the fat, heat the soup, season with 
salt and pepper, add a very little lemon juice, and serve. 

Oysters a la Creme. — Take a pint of oysters, drain off the 
liquor and put it on to boil. When boiling, add the oysters, 
let them come to a boil, then drain again. Boil three 
fourths of a cup of milk, rub one half teaspoonful of butter 
and another of flour with a little dust of mace, add this to 
the milk and let it boil. Pour over the oysters, season with 
salt and pepper, and let it come nearly to the boiling-point 
and serve. 

Chicken Barbecue.— Cut the chicken open in the back and 
put it in a spider with the open side down. Season with 
pepper and salt, and dust it over with flour. Then put in a 
pint of water and let it steam through until tender. Then 
put it in the oven and brown. Cut into four pieces, and 
serve. 

Mashed Potatoes.— Boil the potatoes until soft. Drain 
and mash. Moisten with a little milk. Add butter the size 
of a hickory-nut. Season with salt. Then beat with a knife 
until light. 

Cauliflower.— Separate the cauliflower and let it soak in 
cold water for one hour. Put on to boil, with water enough 
to cover it, and a table-spoonful of salt. When done, drain 
and serve with a cream dressing, made of one half a cup of 
milk, a little butter, salt, and pepper. Let it come to the 
boiling-point. Pour over the cauilflower, and serve. 

Potato Salad. — Boil two potatoes with the jackets on. 
When done, peel, and, when cold, cut into small pieces. 
Chop fine one half a head of cabbage and mix with the pota- 
toes. Make a dressing with the yelk of one egg, one tea- 
spoonful of sugar, a table-spoonful of vinegar, one half a 
teaspoonful of mustard, one fourth of a cup of milk. Season 
with salt and pepper. Pour over the salad and garnish 
with celery. 

Apple Meringue Pie.— Take one half cup of flour, a table- 
spoonful of lard, a pinch of salt, water enough to moisten 
into dough. Poll out and and put in pan for bottom crust. 
For the custard, cook two apples, sweeten to taste ; take the 
yelks of two eggs, one cup of milk, a little nutmeg. Beat 
all together, fill the pan and bake. Now beat the whites of 
two eggs to a stiff froth, sweeten to taste, and spread over 



14 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

the top of the pie. Return to the oven to get a light brown. 
Coffee.— One half cup of ground coffee; clear with a little 
of the white of an egg ; moisten with cold water, then add 
one quart of hot water and let it boil ten minutes. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 8. 

SOUP. 

Tomato, with French Bread. 

FISH. 

Boiled Cod, with Mashed White Potatoes. 

ROAST. 

Veal, with Sweet Potatoes. 

SALAD. 

Lettuce, with Cream Crackers, browned. 

DESERT. 

Charlotte-Russe. "Wine Jelly. 

COST. 

Bread (French), half a loaf, 4 cents; crackers (cream), ten, 
2; coffee, 5; Charlotte-russe, three, 17; fish (cod), one and 
a half pounds, 16; geletine (Cox's), one fourth of a box, 4; 
lemon, one half, 1; lettuce one head, 3; onion, one, i; 
parsley, i; potatoes, six white, three sweet, 5; sugar (loaf), 
ten cuts, 2; tomatoes, two thirds of a can, 7; veal, two 
pounds, 30; wine (sherry), one wineglassful, 4. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Tomato Soup.— Take two thirds of a can of tomatoes, one 
pint of cold water, and one small onion cut fine. Boil to- 
gether one half hour. Rub through a colander. Add one 
teaspoonful ot salt, a dash of red pepper, a little white pep- 
per, and a teaspoonful of sugar. Boil again ten minutes. 
Have the soup toureen hot. Into it pour the mixture, add- 
ing a small piece of butter. Have ready one half pint of 
milk, less two table-spoonfuls, thickened with one table- 
spoonful of flour. Stir all together well in soup tureen, and 
serve at once. Cut half a loaf of French bread in four 
pieces, laying one piece on each napkin. 

Fish.— Procure one and one half pounds codfish. Fill a 
teacup in equal parts of cold water and vinegar, in which 
dissolve a teaspoonfnl of salt, a large pinch of white pepper, 
and a very little red pepper. Pour this upon the fish. Let 
it stand in a cool place one hour, and then pour off the water 
and vinegar. Put in steamer over boiling water. Steam 



ONE HUNDKED PRIZE DINNEES. 15 

twenty minutes. Serve on a napkin on a fish plate, with 
curled parsely around it. Have drawn butter on boat. To 
make the drawn butter sauce, take a piece of butter half the 
size of an egg, a little salt, white pepper, red pepper, and a 
table-spoonful of flour, all mixed into a smooth paste ; then 
pour upon it slowly, stirring all the time, a large cupful of 
boiling water, keeping the dish in a warm place. 

Mashed Potatoes.— Take six large white potatoes ; pare and 
put them into cold water an hour before needed. Then 
place them in salted boiling water and cook until done. 
Drain and mash smooth with pounder. Add a small piece 
of butter and two table spoonfuls of milk. Beat very light 
with a fork. Serve hot with the fish. 

Roast Veal. — Get two pounds of nice lean veal; put it into 
a baking-pan in which has first been placed a little mound 
of bread crumbs mixed with a little butter, salt, pepper, and 
sweet herbs to taste. Season the veal well with salt and pep- 
per; rub with flour; lay over the mound of crumbs; put bits 
of butter here and there over the veal. Keep a little water 
in the pan and baste often. Roast one hour in a good hot 
oven. Remove to a good-sized platter and keep in a warm 
place. Take three good sized sweet potatoes that have been 
boiled, just done, in salt water. Peel and slice in three parts 
lengthwise. Mix together a teaspoonful of brown sugar and 
one of flour. Sprinkle over potatoes, put them around the 
mound of crumbs and let all brow quickly. Serve with veal 
at one end of the platter and the mound of crumbs at the 
other, with the sweet potatoes all around. 

Lettuce Salad. — Take a head of lettuce, wash, and allow 
to stand in cold water a couple of hours before needed. 
Then pull to pieces and lay lightly on a flat bowl. Pour 
over it, just before serving, a dressing in equal parts of olive 
oil and vinegar, with a dash of red pepper and salt. Serve 
with browned cream crackers. Butter slightly ten crackers, 
and put them in a quick oven until brown. Serve hot and 
crisp with the salad. 

Wine Jelly.— Use one quarter of a box of " Cox's gelatine." 
Pour on it one teacupful of warm water. Let it stand one 
hour in a warm place. Then add a teacupful of boiling 
water (in which has boiled, ten minutes, the rind of half a 
lemon) and a teacupful of granulated sugar. Boil all to- 
gether a moment. Strain through a fine strainer or cloth. 
Add a teacupful of cooking sherry and the juice of half a 
lemon. (Wine jelly is better if made the day before it is 
served . ) Break up and serve in pretty glass dishes, and pass 
with the charlotte-russe. 

Charlotte-russe may be obtained at a bakery at the price 
given. 



16 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

BILL OF FARE NO. 9. 

Gumbo Soup a la Creole. 

Fried Chicken. 

Mashed Potatoes. Boiled Beets. 

String Beans. 

Bread. Butter. 

Egg Puffs, with Sauce. 

Coffee. 

COST. 

Gumbo, one quarter can okra, 5 cents ; piece of breast of 
veal, 5 cents; piece of ham, 5 cents; half of an onion, 1 cent; 
rice, 2 cents ; spring chicken, 40 cents ; one quart of pota- 
toes, 3 cents; beets, 2 cents; loaf of bread, 5 cents; one 
quarter pound of butter, 8 cents; one pint of beans, 4 cents; 
egg puffs and sauce, 10 cents ; drip coffee, 10 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Gumbo Soup. — Take a small piece of breast of veal, a 
small piece of ham, and the half of an onion, and cut them 
into small bits. Put into a soup kettle with one quarter can 
of okra and a cup of water. Cover tightly and let it simmer 
for half an hour; then add about two quarts of water and 
boil slowly for one or two hours. Season with salt and pep- 
per. Serve with a spoonful of boiled rice, in soup plates. 
Canned okra can be purchased at any of the large grocery 
stores for twenty cents per can. 

Fried Chicken.— Cut up the chicken. Put a spoonful of 
lard in a skillet. When hot, lay in the chicken, sprinkle 
over with flour, salt, and pepper. Place the lid on the skillet 
and cook over a moderate fire. "When a light brown, turn 
the chicken and sprinkle flour, salt, and pepper over the top, 
as at first. Half an hour is long enough to fry a chicken. 

Drip Coffee,— Use a coffee-pot with a drip attachment. 
Put five spoonfuls of finely ground coffee in the drip or 
upper compartment. Pour on, slowly, boiling hot water, and 
let it drip through, and repeat this until sufficient coffee is 
made. 

Egg Puffs.— Take two eggs, beat well, then add five 
spoonfuls of flour, one spoonful of butter, and a half a cup of 
milk, and beat all together. Add a pinch of salt and a tea- 
spoonful of baking-powder. Put in a muffin pan and bake 
in a quick oven. 

Sauce.— One cup of milk, half a cup of sugar, a table- 
spoonful of butter, a teaspoonful of flour. Mix. Place on 
range, and let come to boil, and flavor to taste. Serve hot. 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 17 

BILL OF FARE NO. 10. 

Celery Soup, with French Bread. 

Fried Perch. Potatoes a la Parisienne. 

Oyster Croquets with Spaghetti. 

Tomato Sauce. 

Fried Bananas. Cauliflower Salad. Crackers. 

Fig Pudding. Wine Sauce. 

Welsh Rarehit. Coffee. 

COST. 

Celery, one head, 8 cents; oysters, one pint and half, solid, 
15 ; fish, four yellow perch, 10 ; bread, fresh and stale 6 ; po- 
tatoes, seven white, 4; pickles, cucumber, 2; cauliflower, 
part of head, 6; tomatoes, quarter of can, 3; cheese, quarter 
of pound, 4; crackers, ten, 2; spaghetti, quarter pound. 4; 
oil, olive, 3; eggs, three, 7; suet, quarter pound, 2; figs, balf 
pound, 10; bananas, three, 4; parsley, one bunch, 1; coffee, 
four cups, 5 ; wine, cooking sherry, 4. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Preliminary.— Pare and cut, with a vegetable-cutter, four 
white potatoes into little balls the size of marbles ; throw 
into cold water. Then take a pint and a half of solid oy- 
sters. Look over carefully for any bits of shell. Strain the 
liquor (there will always be a little). Put the oysters and 
liquor over the fire, with a pinch of red pepper and a little 
salt. Let them just boil up, stirring slightly witb a fork all 
the time, so they will not scorch. Strain and put the oysters 
away to get cool for the croquets. 

Celery Soup.— -Take half head of celery, all the gjeen stalks 
and leaves, the scraps of potato cuttings, and boil until soft 
in a nint of salted water. Strain through a colander, add a cup- 
ful of rice which has been boiled as a vegetable, a pinch of red 
and of white pepper, and almost half a teaspoonful of curry 
powder. Cut all the tender part of celery in small bits. 
Return to pot and boil ten minutes: then add liquor of oy- 
sters and nearly a pint of sweet milk. Boil up once and 
serve very hot, having a well-beaten egg in soup tureen. 
Pour soup in slowly, stirring well. 

Fried Fish.— Wash and dry four yellow perch. Rub well 
with flour (or meal), salt, and pepper. Fry a light brown. 

Potatoes a la Parisienne.— Take the potato balls out of 
water and dry well by rolling in a towel. Fry brown in deep 
lard. Season with chopped parsley. Divide in four parts. 
Put little pile on each large dinner plate. Lay the perch 
partly on the potatoes. Put bits of parsely around and send 
tjo table. 



18 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

Oyster Croquets.— Pare, boil, and mash three good-sized 
white potatoes. Season with little butter, salt, and a dash 
of red pepper. Chop up the cold oysters. Add a table- 
spoonful of cream and a little mace. Mix well and make into 
little rolls. Dip in egg and bread crumbs. Put in the fry- 
ing-pan and fry to a light brown. 

Spaghetti. — A quarter of a pound of spaghetti thrown into 
three quarts of boiling water. Boil twenty-five minutes. 
Then put in a colander and drain. Make a sauce of quarter 
of a can of tomatoes, stewed down to one teacupf ul. Season 
with a pinch of brown sugar, red and white pepper, large 
pinch of salt, and a small bit of butter. Place the spaghetti, 
after mixing lightly with the sauce, in the middle of a platter, 
with the croquets all around, dressed with curled parsley. 
Great care should be taken not to break the spaghetti, and 
have it full and round in ropes. 

Fried Bananas. — Three bananas; cut each in three slices 
lengthwise; sprinkle with a 'ittle sugar; fry quickly in little 
butter; make three piles of the slices on a fancy plate; then 
with a sharp knife cut down through the middle. Serve. 

Cauliflower Salad.— Remove the leaves; cut off the main 
stalk close to the flower ; wlsTi it ; lay it in boiling water 
slightly salted (a little rr'lk in the water is good). When 
done, lay in a colander. Be careful not to mar the flower. 
When cold, pull the flower to pieces. Keep in a cool place 
until needed ; then pour over the following dressing ; 

SaladDressiny.— One hard-boiled egg, chopped very fine; 
a pinch of pepper, red and white; a little mustard, a table- 
spoonful of mashed white potato, three table-spoonfuls of 
olive oil, two table- spoonfuls of strong vinegar. Beat all 
well, and pour over cauliflower just before sending to the 
table. Put little sprigs of parsley around here and there 
after the dressing has been put on. Serve with crackers. 

Fig Pudding. — A pint and a half of bread crumbs, fine, one 
quarter pound of suet, chopped very fine; a teacupful of 
brown sugar, a teaspoonful of milk. Mix the bread and suet 
first, then the figs that have been chopped very fine, one 
egg beaten well, the sugar, and, lastly, the milk and a large 
pinch of salt. Boil in a mould four hours. To be eaten with 
wine sauce, hot. 

Wine r Jauce.—A coffee-cup of boiling water poured over a 
heaping table spoonful of flour, mixed with butter enough 
to make a smooth paste. Let all boil up once ; add a teacup- 
ful of brown sugar. Boil up once more. Then pour into a 
sauce bowl, with a wineglass of cooking sherry and a tea- 
spoonful of lemon extract 

Welsh Ro.rebit.— Toast four squares of bread (home-made 
is best), without allowing it to dry. Cut off the crust 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 1 J) 

with a sharp knife. Butter it and cover it with thin slices 
of cheese, spread very lightly with made mustard. Lay it 
on a pie plate and place in hot oven until melted. Serve 
immediately, a square on each little fancy dessert plate. 

Coffee. — Five table- spoonfuls of ground coffee, a little egg 
and shell. Let it hoil five to eight minutes, after pouring 
four cups of boiling water over the grounds. Serve in after- 
dinner coffee cups on little plates with Welsh rarebit. 

Bread. — A third of a loaf of French bread, cut in four 
pieces and laid on napkins at table. Two thirds loaf bakers' 
stale bread for pudding. Two slices of home-made bread for 
Welsh rarebit. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 11. 

SOUP. 

Cream of Tomato. 

FISH. 

Devilled Halibut. 

ROAST. 

Cannelon of Beef. 

Mashed Potatoes. Cream Macaroni. 

Rice Croquets. Bread. 

SALAD. 

Celery, with Mayonnaise Dressing. 

DESSERT. 

Spanish Cream. Grapes. 

Coffee. 

COST. 

Cream of tomato soup, 8 cents ; devilled halibut, 12 cents ; 
cannelon of beef, 20 cents ; mashed potatoes, 3 cents ; cream 
macaroni, 8 cents; rice croquets, 10 cents; bread, 3 cents; 
celery, with Mayonnaise dressing, 10 cents; Spanish cream, 
14 cents; grapes, 7 cents; coffee, 5 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Cream of Tomoto Soup. — Take one pint of canned toma- 
toes. After cooking thoroughly, add half a saltspoonful of 
baking soda. Stir well, and then rub through a strainer fine 
enough to keep back seeds. Boil half a pint of milk ; mix 
one teaspoon ful of flour with very little milk till smooth; 
then stir it into the boiling milk, and cook a few minutes. 
Add a dessert-spoonful of butter to the milk, then the toma- 
toes, and serve immediately. Season with salt and pepper. 



20 One hundred prize dinners. 

Devilled Halibut.— Shred one half pound of cold-boiled 
halibut. Put a half a cup of milk on to boil. Mix one ta- 
ble-spoonful of flour with a little milk until smooth, and add 
to the boiling milk; also half a table- spoonful of butter. 
Stir, and cook for two minutes. Take from fire, and add the 
halibut, the yelks of two hard-boiled eggs mashed fine, half 
a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, salt, and cayenne pep- 
per. Clean scallop or clam shells, fill them with the mix- 
ture, brush over with beaten egg, cover with bread crumbs, 
and put in a quick oven to brown. 

Cannelon of Beef.— One pound of uncooked beef from the 
upper part of the round, chopped fine, with the yelk of one 
egg, one table-spoonful of chopped parsley, one of butter, 
and two of bread crumbs, one teaspoonful of salt, three 
dashes of black pepper. Mix all the ingredients together, 
then form into a roll about six inches long and four inches 
in diameter. Wrap in greased paper, put in baking pan, and 
bake in a quick oven thirty minutes, basting twice with 
melted butter. When done, remove the paper, place the roll 
in the centre of a hot dish, and serve with Drown sauce 

Eoured over it. For the sauce, melt one table-spoonful of 
utter, stir until a dark brown, add half a table-spoonful of 
flour, mix well, add half a cup of milk, and stir continually 
until it boils. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Mashed Potatoes.— BoH four potatoes. When done and 
dry, put through a vegetable-press to remove all lumps. 
Add butter, milk, and salt. Beat with a fork until very 
light. 

Cream Macaroni. — Break six long sticks into small pieces, 
put into boiling water that has been salted, stir with fork to 
separate it, and let it boil hard for one hour. Then drain 
and throw into cold water to blanche for ten minutes. Ar- 
range in baking-dish. For the cream gravy: To a cup and 
a half of boiling milk add one table-spoonful of butter, a 
table-spoonful of flour smoothed in a little milk and salt. 
When thick, stir into it one table-spoonful of grated cheese. 
Pour it over the macaroni, sprinkle a little more cheese over 
the top, and put in the oven to brown. 

Rice Croquets. — One pint of milk, yelks of two eggs, one 
half cup of rice ; salt and pepper to taste. Wash the rice, 
and put it in a farina-boiler with the milk ; boil about one 
hour, or until very thick ; then beat until smooth. Add the 
yelks of the eggs, well beaten, and cook ten minutes longer. 
Add seasoning, turn out on a plate, and stand away until 
very cold. Then form into cylinders; dip first in beaten 
egg, then in bread crumbs, and fry in boiling oil or fat. 

Celery with Mayonnaise. — Cut half a bunch of the white 
Stalks of celery into small pieces. Mix it with the dressing, 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 2l 

garnish with the white tips of the celery, and serve imme- 
diately. For the dressing take the yelk of one egg, a quarter 
of a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of cayenne, and a quarter of 
a teaspoonful of mustard. Work these well together, and 
then add, drop by drop, olive oil, alternating occasionally 
with a few drops of vinegar. Continue thus until you have 
a sufficient quantity of the dressing. 

Spanish Cream.— One pint of milk, quarter of a box of 
gelatine, two eggs, half a cup of sugar. Pour the milk on 
gelatine, and let it stand one hour ; then put it on stove, and 
let it come to a boil. Add yelks and sugar beaten together. 
Cook one minnte; then take from the fire, and stir in the 
whites beaten to a stiff froth. Flavor with teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Pour into molds that have been dipped in cold 
water. This should be made the day before it is to be used, 
and the eggs and gelatine will separate. 

Coffee. — Moisten four table-spoonfuls of ground coffee 
with the white of one egg. Add a gill of cold water, and let 
it come to a boil. Then add three quarters of a pint of boil- 
ing water, and boil one minute. Settle by adding one table- 
spoonful of cold water, and serve. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 12. 

Potato Soup. 

Scalloped Cod. 

Rolled Beefsteak. 

Mashed Potatoes. Turnips. 

Dressed Celery. 

Bread. Butter. 

Omelet Souffle. 

Coffee. 

COST. 

Soup, 6 cents; scalloped cod, 8 cents; rolled beefsteak, 39 
cents (two pounds of round steak, 36 cents ; other materials, 
3 cents); potatoes, 4 cents; turnips, 4 cents; dressed cel- 
ery, 8 cents; bread and butter, 8 cents; omelet souffle, 18 
cents ; coffee, 5 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Potato Soup. — Wash and pare three potatoes, and let them 
soak in cold water for half an hour. Put them into boiling 
water, and cook very soft. Put a pint of milk on to boil in 
the double boiler, with a teaspoonful of chopped onion and a 
stalk of celery. When the potatoes are done, drain and 



22 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

mash them. Add the boiling milk, and season with one tea- 
spoonful of salt and a little pepper. Rub through a strainer, 
and put on to boil again. Melt a table- spoonful of butter in a 
small dish. Stir into it one half table spoonful of flour, and 
when well mixed stir into the boiling soup. Let boil five 
minutes, and serve very hot. 

Scalloped Cod. — Boil, in salted water, one pound of fresh 
cod. When, done drain off the water, and break up the fish 
with a fork, and mix with it a thick cream sauce. Season 
with salt and pepper. Put into scallop-shells. Sprinkle 
bread crumbs over the top, and bake twenty minutes. Your 
fishman will give you the scallop-shells, and they are very 
convenient, as you can use the same shells several times. 

Rolled Beefsteak. — Take two pounds of round steak, cut in 
a thick slice. Make a stuffing of a cup of bread crumbs, and 
a teaspoonful of melted butter. Season with sage, salt, and 
pepper. Lay the steak on a board, trim off the fat, and hack 
one side of it thoroughly with a knife. Do not cut through 
the steak. Spread the stuffing on the chopped side, roll the 
meat over, and fasten with wooden toothpicks to keep it. 
Put over it a few thin slices of salt pork. Then tie all up 
nicely with twine. 

Lay in a saucepan with a pint of water, and a piece of 
carrot and onion cut fine, a saltspoonful of salt, and a tea- 
spoonful of vinegar. Let this simmer for three hours ; then 
take it up, remove the string and toothpicks, sprinkle flour 
over it, and set it in the oven to brown. Skim gravy, and, 
when meat is browned, pour over it and serve. This is very- 
nice when well cooked. The success of the dish depends on 
simmering slowly and browning quickly. 

Mashed Potatoes.— Every housekeeper has a method of her 
own for mashing potatoes and turnips. 

Dressed Celery. — Cut a few stalks of celery in inch pieces, 
and pour over them a French dressing ; garnish with celery 
leaves. 

French Dressing. — Put into a bowl one saltspoonful of salt, 
and half a saltspoonful of pepper, add slowly three table- 
spoonsful of oil. Then add one fourth of a teaspoonful of 
onion juice and one table-spoonful of vinegar. 

Omelet Souffle.— Beat the yelks of four eggs until light, 
then add a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of vanilla, 
and a table-spoonful of powdered sugar; beat whites of six 
eggs until stiff, and fold them into yelks; put into a buttered 
pudding dish, cook in moderate oven about fifteen minutes, 
or until well puffed up and brown. Serve at once. 

The coffee may be made according to the common recipe, 
which all housekeepers know. 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 23 

BILL OF FARE NO. 13. 

SOUP. 

Beef. 

FISH. 

Boiled Haddock, drawn Butter Sauce. 

POULTRY. 

Baked Chicken, garnished with Parsley and Fried Oysters, 

.MEAT. 

Fricandelles. 

VEGETABLES. 

Potato Croquets. Cabbage Salad. 

DESSERT. 

Apple Pie. Cheese. 

Coffee, with Cream. 

COST. 

One soup bone with meat, 5 cents ; 2 pounds haddock, 12 
cents ; 2 pounds chicken, 30 cents ; 1 dozen oysters, 12 cents ; 
cheese, 3 cents; ■£■ head cabbage, 2 cents; 1 quart apples, 3 
cents; i pound flour, 2 cents; £ pound butter, 7 cents; £ 
pound sugar, 4 cents; 2 small onions, 1 cent; parsley, 1 cent; 
1 quart potatoes, 3 cents; 3 table-spoonfuls coffee, 4 cents; 
i loaf bread, 3 cents; 2 eggs, 5 cents; cream for coffee, 3 
cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Beef Soup. — Take a piece of soup meat with bone, chop 
the meat up in small pieces and put in the pot with the bone; 
cover with two quarts of water. When it boils, skim care- 
fully ; add two onions, season with pepper and salt, and cel- 
ery salt. When it boils down to a pint and one half, stir a 
teaspoonful of flour with a little water until free from 
lumps; then add to the soup; strain; take two slices of 
bread, cut in small dice shape, and fry in lard until a rich 
brown; then put in soup dishes; pour soup over; serve im- 
mediately. 

Boiled Haddock. — After cleaning, remove the eyes, wash 
and tie up the fish in a cloth ; put in boiling water with a 
handful of salt, and boil twenty minutes. For the drawn 
butter sauce, take one table-spoonful of butter, a large tea- 
spoonful of flour, and mix; then add boiling water to make 
little thicker than cream ; serve in gravy boat with a little 
parsely. 

Baked Chicken.— Get a young and tender chicken; cut by 
splitting open at back, wash, wipe, and put in a dripping-pan 
with the bone side down. If the oven is hot, one half hour 



24 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

will cook it nicely ; season with pepper and salt, spread with 
butter, put on a medium-sized platter, and serve with fried 
oysters and parsley around the edge of the platter; take the 
giblets, cut in small pieces and boil them. 

Fried Oysters. — Take one dozen oysters, dip in beaten egg, 
then in rolled cracker or bread crumbs ; fry in lard with a 
little butter until a nice brown; then take them out and lay 
them on brown paper until it absorbs the fat. Then place 
around the chicken. 

Fricandelles.—Take the soup meat, and chop very fine. 
Take a table-spoonful of cracker or bread crumbs, one table- 
spoonful melted butter, and a small piece of onion. Season 
with pepper and salt, and just enough water or milk to 
moisten so as to mold in cakes. Fry. 

Cabbage Salad.— Take one third of a head of cabbage, chop 
very fine, season with pepper and salt. To make dressing, 
take three table-spoonfuls of vinegar, heat until near boil- 
ing ; take one small teaspoonf ul of flour, one of butter, one 
of sugar, one half teaspoonf ul of mustard, one half of a 
beaten egg; stir in vinegar until it thickens. Pour over 
cabbage while, hot. Set away to cool. 

Potato Croquets.— Boil potatoes, mash fine; season with 
pepper, salt, and a very little grated nutmeg. To a cupful 
of potato, add a table-spoonful of melted butter. Beat to a 
cream. When cold add one beaten egg. Roll into small 
balls, dip in half of beaten egg (left from salad dressing), 
then in rolled bread crumbs. Fry in hot lard. 

Apple Pie. — To make the crust, take a large handful of flour, 
two table-spoonfuls of lard or butter, a little salt, enough 
cold water to roll. Line the pie pan. Take one quart of 
pie apples, pare, quarter, and core, putting in pan with cored 
side down. Sprinkle three table-spoonfuls of sugar and lit- 
tle bits of butter over the top of the apples. Bake with only 
an under crust. Serve while warm. Cut the cheese in four 
pieces and serve with the pie. 

Coffee.— Scald the coffee pot, then take three table-spoon- 
fuls of coffee (Java and Mocha). Take the shells of egg, put 
in the pot with the coffee, add four large cups of boiling 
water. Let it come to a boil, then set on the back of the 
stove and boil five minutes. Serve with sugar and cream. 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 25 

BILL OF FAEE NO. 14. 

Lobster Soup. 

Boiled Cod, Maitre d'Hotel Sauce. 

Boiled Potatoes. Rice a la Fromage. 

Lobster Salad. 

Bread. 

Cream Pudding, with Currant Jelly. 

Coffee. 

COST. 

Soup, 9 cents; 3 pounds cod, 24 cents; sauce, 3 cents; po- 
tatoes, 3 cents; rice and cheese, 10 cents; salad dressing, 6 
cents; lobster, 20 cents; bread, 5 cents; pudding, 10 cents; 
currant jelly, 4 cents; coffee, 6 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATIONS. 

Salad. — Boil a two-pound lobster in salted boiling water 
for three quarters of an hour. When cool, extract all the 
meat, setting aside the small claws, one half of the coral and 
about a table-spoonful of the meat. Take the yelk of a hard- 
boiled egg, rub until very smooth and free from lumps, add 
a table-spoonful of salad oil, one half table-spoonful of made 
mustard, one half of salt, one half of sugar, one half of 
Worcestershire sauce, a pinch of cayenne pepper. Rub the 
coral separately until smooth, and add to the mixture very 
gradually. Add one third cup of vinegar as it thickens un- 
til the dressing is thin enough to pour over the lobster, pre- 
viously cut in small pieces with a knife and fork. Do so 
until well mixed. Dress with celery tops or pieces of 
parsley. 

Cod. — Tie a three-pound piece of fresh codfish in fish cloth 
or piece of cheese cloth, dredged with flour. Boil in salted 
water for about an hour. 

Maitre oV Hotel Sauce.— Take one cupful of the water in 
which the fish is boiled, rub one teaspoonful of butter with 
one and a half teaspoonfuls of flour until smooth, stir into 
the hot water, add one half teaspoonful of very finely 
minced parsley, boil five minutes, stir in juice from one 
lemon, cayenne pepper and salt to taste. Boil up once and 
serve. Put the cod in the center of a hot platter, and pour 
the sauce over it. It gives a much better flavor to the fish 
than if served separately. 

Soup.— Take 5 cents' worth of lean soup veal, cut in small 
pieces, and boil until all the juice is extracted. Add, when 
partly done, the small claws of the lobster, broken at the 
3oints. Boil at least half an hour, strain, and return to the 
range. Take the yelk of a hard-boiled egg and one tea- 
spoonful of butter, and rub together until smooth. Take 



26 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

a table-spoonful of lobster meat, mince fine, mix with the 
paste, add a teaspoonful of bread crumbs, add a well-beaten 
egg, pepper, and salt. Form in small balls, roll in flour, and 
set away to harden. Take the coral left from the salad, and 
rub smooth with a few spoonfuls of the broth until the con- 
sistency of starch is obtained. Stir very carefully into the 
soup, which should turn a delicate pink. Drop in the force- 
meat balls; do not stir, but allow to boil for three minutes. 
Serve immediately. 

Potatoes.— Peel off a strip of skin all around them, and 
boil in salt water. Pour the water off and place in the oven, 
with a napkin over them to dry them off. 

Bice a la Fromage.— Boil one cupful of rice, strain and 
dry. In a baking-dish put a layer of rice, pepper, and salt. 
Grate one fifth of a pound of mild cheese; sprinkle some 
over the rice in layers until all is used. Beat an egg with 
one half cup of milk, and pour over the contents of the dish. 
Spread bread crumbs on top, drop a teaspoonful of melted 
butter over. Bake until nicely browned. 

Cream Pudding.— Set one pint of milk to boil. Wet two 
table-spoonfuls of corn starch with cold water, stir carefully 
into the boiling milk, add very little speck of salt and five 
drops of vanilla. Turn into four fancy patte pans. Set to 
cool until firm and hard. If made in the morning, they will 
be cold for dinner. For the sauce, one cup of milk, two 
thirds of a cup of powdered sugar, five drops of vanilla. 
When the pudding is firm and cold, turn out on saucers, drop 
a piece of currant jelly about the size of a thimble on the 
top of each one, and pour a little of the sweetened cream 
around each. 



BILL OF FAKE NO. 15 

SOUP. 

Pea Soup. 

MEATS. 

Beef Loaf. Oysters, with Macaroni. 

Cranberry Jelly. 

VEGETABLES. 

Mashed Potatoes. Onions a la Creme. 

SALAD. 

Salmon Salad. 

DESSERT. 

Orange Ambrosia, Coffee. 

COST. 

Beef loaf, 15 cents; oysters and macaroni, 20 cents; soup, 
12 cents; cranberry jelly, 8 cents; potatoes, 3 cents; onions, 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 27 

3 cents; salad, 12 cents; orange ambrosia, 15 cents; coffee, 
3 cents; milk, 4 cents; bread, 4 cents; parsley, 1 cent. 
Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Pea Soup.- -Pick over one pint of split peas, wash, and 
soak over night. In the morning turn off the water and put 
them into the soup pot ; add four quarts of cold water, quar- 
ter pound of lean salt pork, one small onion, celery, salt, and 
a little pepper. Boil gently four or five hours, being careful 
that it does not burn. 

Beef Loaf.— To one pound of beef (from the round), 
chopped fine, add one egg, one-third of a cup of fine bread 
crumbs, salt, and pepper. Make into a loaf, with a little flour 
on outside, and roast, with frequent basting. When served, 
garnish with parsley leaves. 

Oysters and Macaroni.— Boil a half pound of macaroni 
until tender. Into a deep earthen dish put a layer of maca- 
roni, adding small pieces of butter, a little pepper and salt. 
From one pint of oysters make alternate layers with the 
macaroni, and season each layer as above. When the dish 
is filled, pour over it the liquor from the oysters, with quar- 
ter of a pint of milk. Bake in a hot oven one half hour, 
covering the dish with a pan while baking, to preserve the 
flavor of the oysters, but remove it five or ten minutes be- 
fore it is done, and let it brown. Wrap a napkin around 
the dish, and serve. 

Cranberry Jelly.— Stew one pint of cranberries; when 
done, strain through a sieve, add sugar, and set on the stove 
to jelly ; serve cold. 

Mashed Potatoes.— Take four large potatoes, boil, mash, 
and serve in the usual way. 

Onions a la Crewe.— Take four good sized onions, boil till 
well done, add a little butter, salt, pepper, and one quarter 
pint of milk ; let it boil up once after adding the milk ; then 
serve. 

Salmon Salad.— Take one half can of salmon, and pick fine 
with a fork ; add to it one fourth of a large cabbage chopped 
fine and the chopped white of a hard-boiled egg; then take 
the yelk of the egg and rub with it a pinch of mustard, add- 
ing it to the above, with a little salt and sufficient vinegar 
to suit the taste; garnish with parsley leaves. 

Orange Ambrosia.— Take two large oranges, peel and slice; 
put in a deep glass dish a layer of orange and sprinkle with 
sugar. Then add a layer of grated cocoanut and again 
sprinkle with sugar; keep on until all is used, finishing with 
a thin layer of cocoanut ; buy a cocoanut and grate it, which 
is cheaper than using the prepared. 



28 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

Coffee. —Take half a cup of ground coffee and put it into 
a muslin bag sufficiently large to allow it to swell. Put into 
the coffee pot and pour on enough boiling water to make 
four full cups of coffee, and let boil twenty minutes. By 
this preparation the coffee is beautiful and clear without an 
egg. 



BILL OF FAEE NO. 16. 

OYSTERS. 

On Half Shell. 

SOUP. 

Puree of Celery. 

ROAST. 

Chicken, with Parsley. 

VEGETABLES. 

Potato Balls. Scalloped Tomatoes. 

DESSERT. 

Cottage Souffle, with Celery Sauce. 
Coffee. Cheese Straws. 

COST. 

Oysters, 24 cents ; celery soup, 8 cents ; chicken, 40 cents ; 
potatoes 5 cents ; tomatoes, 6 cents ; cottage souffle and sauce, 
6 cents; bread 3 cents; coffee, 5 cents; flour and sugar, 2 
cents; parsley, 1 cent. $1.00. 

PREPARATION. 

Celery Soup.— One pint of milk and a little over a pint of 
boiling water ; rub together. one table-spoonful of butter and 
two of flour ; stir into boiling milk until smooth ; add one 
teaspoonful of salt and one of celery extract ; use one half 
bunch of, celery, boiled (leaves and all) in the water given in 
the recipe ; boil one hour. 

Roast Chicken.— Binge the chicken and split down the 
back; wipe dry, dredge well with salt and pepper; cover 
with softened butter and dredge both sides with fine dry 
bread crumbs ; place in a pan, inside down ; bake in a hot 
oven forty minutes ; serve with celery leaves or parsley. 

Potato Balls. —One pint of cold mashed potatoes, one egg 
beaten light ; roll the potatoes in small round balls, dip m 
egg, then bread crumbs; fry in a deep ketJe of hot lard; 
have ready brown paper to absorb grease ; serve in a napkin. 

Scaloped Tomatoes.— One half can or one pint of toma- 
toes, a little pepper, salt, butter, and bread crumbs. Bake 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 29 

one half hour in a baking-dish ; sprinkle bread crumbs on 
top. 

Cottage Souffle.— One egg beaten separately; one scant 
cupful of sugar ; two table-spoonfuls of melted butter; one 
heaping cupful of flour, one of water ; one table-spoonful of 
baking powder ; bake one half hour. 

Sauce. — Rub one table-spoonful of butter with two of pul- 
verized sugar (in a bowl) ; place the bowl in a pan of boiling 
water, stirring in two table-spoonfuls of cherries and juice 
or any canned fruit you have opened that is tart. 

Cheese Straws. — Grate three table spoonfuls of any kind 
of cheese ; add three table-spoonfuls of flour, a little red pep- 
per and salt; add to dry ingredients one table-spoonful of 
melted butter, one of water, and the yelk of one egg. Roll 
thin as for cookies, cut in strips five inches long and one 
half inch wide. Bake fifteen minutes. Serve on plate and 
fringed doily. Build the straws up like a log cabin. They 
are delicious with salad. 

Coffee. — Take the egg left from the cheese straws, to settle 
the coffee (three fourths of a cupful is enough for four for 
dinner) ; add cold water, and let come to a boil. Then add 
boiling water in the old-fashioned way. 

Note. — If you have ice, serve the oysters on a plate filled 
with cracked ice. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 17. 

SOUP. 

Oyster. 

ROAST. 

Fillet of Veal. 

VEGETABLES. 

Macaroni, with Tomatoes. 
Browned Potatoes. Celery. 

DESSERT. 

Tutti Fruitti Jelly. French Beans. 

Cafe au Lait. 

COST. 

Oysters, 13 cents; veal, 40 cents; potatoes, 3 cents; maca- 
roni and tomatoes, 7 cents; celery, 4 cents; bread, 5 cents; 
tutti fruitti jelly, 15 cents; French buns, 5 cents; cafe au 
lait, 8 cents. Total, $1, 



30 ONE HUNDRED VPRIZE DINNERS. 

PREPARATION. 

Oyster Soup.— Cut up a few of the outside stalks of celery 
quite fine and boil twenty minutes in one pint of water, 
using a bright tin or agate saucepan. Wash one pint of 
oysters, and drain ; then strain the liquor into the saucepan, 
boil and skim, add the oysters, and season with salt, white 
pepper, a, small blade of mace, and one table-spoonful of 
flour, rubbed smoothly, with one table-spoonful of butter. 
When this has come to a boil, add enough hot milk to make 
a quart of soup or more. Serve with a plate of thin buttered 
toast. 

Fillet of Veal— Have the butcher remove the bone from 
two and a half ponnds of the leg of veal, just below the cut- 
lets, and be sure he sends the bones with the meat, as they 
make your sauce richer if well boiled in a saucepan, and the 
liquor used. Make a dressing of stale bread moistened in cold 
water and seasoned with one slice of fat perk and one small 
onion chopped fine, one half of a teacupful of mashed pota- 
toes, salt, pepper and a small piece of summer savory or 
thyme. Mix throughly and fasten snugly in your meat, with 
strings bound around it and skewers to hold it together. 
Lay strips of salt pork on the top, and roast in a small drip- 
ping-pan in a hot oven two hours. Baste the meat fre- 
quently with the water in which the bones are boiling. The 
meat should be kept covered with a small pan for the first 
half-hour, to steam. Then remove the pan and roast to a 
nice brown. Serve the meat on a large platter, and garnish 
with celery leaves and parsley. The sauce is made in the 
dipping-pan with the rest of the stock, and cold water 
added to make enough to serve with the meat. Corn starch 
or flour can be used to thicken it. Strain through a tin 
strainer made for the purpose. 

Potatoes.— Pare and boil three large potatoes. When 
done, pour off every drop of water, and mash finely, and 
season with salt, butter, and milk. Pack nicely in an oval 
pudding dish, and, with a broad-bladed knife dipped in 
butter, make a pretty ornamental pyramid. A few minutes 
in a hot oven will make this a nice brown. Send to the 
table with the dish concealed in a napkin and the edge bor- 
dered with parsley. 

Macaroni.— Break up five sticks of mocaroni in a sauce- 
pan, with hot water enough to cover it. Simmer slowly 
twenty minutes and drain through a strainer. Have ready 
in another saucepan one cup of tomatoes, one half cup of 
beef stock or gravy left over, a small onion sliced, and salt, 
a small dash of cayenne, and a half teaspoonful of brown 
sugar. When this is hot, add the macaroni and cook slowly 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. ,'U 

twenty minutes more. Send to the table in a hot covered 
dish, and serve in vegetable saucers. 

Tutti Frutti Jelly. — Dissolve one fourth of a box of gela- 
tine in one pint of boiling water, add the juice of one large 
lemon and one cup of sugar. When cold, strain into a 
large glass dish. Prepare one orange and two bananas. 
Eemove the skin from the orange and tear in sections ; take 
out the seeds and white fibers, and place at intervals in the 
jelly. The bananas may be cut in thick slices and fill in be- 
tween the orange. Place on ice to harden, and serve with 
French buns. 

French Buns. — Three fresh eggs broken into a mixing- 
bowl, with one cup of granulated sugar. Beat this with a 
silver or wooden spoon twenty minutes by the clock. Then 
add two table-spoonfuls of cold water, and one teacupful of 
flour, and one level teaspoonful of baking-powder, a small 

{)inch of salt, and one teaspoonful of vanilla. Have ready a 
arge dripping-pan with the bottom covered with sheets of 
white paper, well buttered. Drop from the spoon, at inter- 
vals, little round cakes, and bake as quickly as possible in a 
hot oven. When cold, spread a teaspoonful of current jelly 
on the bottom of one, and faster the bottom of another to it. 
The entire number need not be treated in this way— various 
fillings are nice. These little French cakes or buns can be 
developed into numberless inexpensive desserts. 

Cafe au Lait.—Four table-spoonfuls of freshly ground 
coffee (the best Mocha and Java) ; wet with cold water and 
place in the filter of your coffee-pot. Drip slowly through 
this, four cups of boiling water. Have ready a pitcher of 
hot milk and an eggcup of whipped cream. The upper 
part of a bottle of milk furnishes the cream. The coffee 
can be used black if preferred. 



BILL OF FAEE NO. 18. 

Vegetable Soup. French Bread. 

Roast Duck. Cranberry Sauce. 

Mashed Potatoes. Lettuce Salad 

Macaroni. Italian Sauce. 

French Coffee. 

Queen Pudding. 

COST. 

Soup meat, 5 cents; vegetables, 4 cents; bread, 5 cents; 
duck, 48 cents ; potatoes, etc. , 5 cents ; lettuce, 4 cents ; 
dressing, 1 cent; macaroni, 3 cents; sauce, 4 cents; cran- 



32 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

berries, 3 cents ; sugar, 1 cent ; coffee, 4 cents. Pudding in* 
gredients— milk, 1 ceut; egg, 2 cents; lemon and sugar 3, 
cents; jelly, 4 cents; pork, 3 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Soup.— Ask the butcher for the knuckle joint to acccom- 
pany the meat. Boil both slowly for six hours in two 
quarts of water ; strain, add one half onion, three spoonfuls 
tomatoes, one spoonful of prepared desiccated soup (to be 
obtained from the grocer) and a handful of noodles. Again 
boil slowly for an hour. 

Roast Duck.— Singe, draw, wash thoroughly, wipe dry 
and fill with following dressing, viz. : two slices stale bread 
soaked and squeezed dry, a small onion chopped fine and a 
little parsley, season with salt and pepper. Boil the giblets, 
strain, chop fine, mix all, and fry to light brown. Now sew 
up opening and place duck on its back in a pan, in which 
should be a small cupful of hot water. Cut a few small 
pieces of salt pork as thin as possible and place on the 
breast. Baste frequently from water in the pan. This pre- 
vents the meat from being dry. In forty minutes cut up 
an onion in pan. Have moderately hot oven and bake for 
an hour and a half. Bemove duck to serving-dish and slice 
the inside of a lemon and place it on the breast, removing 
pork scraps, and serve. Thicken the gravy with a spoonful 
of flour and water stirred smooth together. Let it boil for 
half a minute and serve in saucepan. 

Crarherry Sauce.— Wash three quarters of a pint of cran- 
berries, barely cover with boiling water, and let them stew 
for ten minutes. Add one third of a cup of sugar. Boil 
again for five minutes, strain, and serve in side dishes. 

Mashed Potatoes. — Wash and pare four medium-sized 
potatoes. Boil in salted water. The minute they are done, 
drain. Mash vigorously until not a lump remains. Have 
heated in a clean saucepan half a cupful of sweet milk, a 
small lump of butter, the white of an egg well beaten, and a 
pinch of salt. Beat this into the mashed potatoes until it is 
as light as possible. Put into a warm tureen, make into a 
symmetrical mound, dust with white pepper, and serve. 

Lettuce Salad.— Pull off the leaves with the fingers and 
wash in several waters to remove every particle of grit; 
then put into cold water for awhile before using. Shake 
out the water from the leaves, place lightly in salad dish, 
and send to table for each to prepare as they may prefer, — 
with vinegar, salt, olive oil, etc.,— or, before putting on table, 
mix lightly with two spoonfuls of Durkee's Salad Dressing. 

Macaroni. — Take one quarter pound of macaroni, medium 
size, and pour boiling water enough to cover ; boil one hour 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 33 

slowly; when nearly done, add salt to season. When fin- 
ished, add dressing, stir lightly, and serve very hot. 

Italian Sauce. — Brown an onion and a garlic in one half 
spoonful of drippings seasoned with salt and pepper to suit 
taste. Add one quarter can of strained tomatoes, and let it 
simmer for forty-five minutes. Mix lightly just before 
going on table. 

French Coffee.— Grind three fourths cup of good coffee; 
place in dripping coffee-pot and pour boiling water on until 
you have just four cups. 

Queen Pudding.— Take two cups of grated bread crumbs, 
one half cup of sugar, yelk of an egg, one cup of milk, and 
one half of lemon rind grated ; beat all together ; bake to 
light brown; when done, spread over top a thin layer of 
currant jelly ; now beat the white of an egg, with a little 
sugar, to stiff froth, and pour on top ; put back in oven and 
bake again to Light brown. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 19. 

SOUP, 

Clam Soup. 

POULTRY. 

Fried Chicken, Cranberry Jelly. 

MEAT. 

Stuffed Beef. 

VEGETABLES. 

Mashed Potatoes. Creamed Onions. 

Squash. Celery. 

Bread. 

DESSERT. 

Chocolate Pudding. Appple Custard. 
Coffee. 

COST. 

Clams, 6 cents; beef, 18 cents; chicken, 30 cents; cran- 
berries, 4 cents ; potatoes, 3 cents ; onions, 3 cents : squash, 
3 cents; celery, 3 cents; bread, 5 cents; chocolate, 2 cents ; 
apples, 2 cents; coffee, 4 cents; butter, 4 cents; milk, 3 
cents; sugar, 4 cents; eggs, 5 cents; flour, salt, and pepper, 
1 cent. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Clam Soup.— Take six large round clams. Chop them 
fine, add liquor and one quart of water, cook slowly two 



34 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

hours, add small cup of milk, one table-spoonful of flour; 
wet in half cup of water, season with salt, pepper, small 
piece of butter; boil two or three minutes. Serve with 
toasted bread cut in squares. 

Fried Chicken. — Wash the pieces in cold water, dry them 
in a cloth, roll in fine bread crumbs. Take one half pint of 
milk, chop in a bit of parsley very fine, add to it the milk, 
with a little salt, and pepper, and a teaspoonful of flour. Fry 
the chicken in butter; when done, lay the pieces on a hot 
dish, then pour the prepared cream slowly into the frying- 
pan, stirring quickly. When well done, pour the cream over 
the chicken. 

Stuffed ifeef.— Procure a piece of round steak, free from 
bone, have it cut three quarters of an inch thick, and weigh- 
ing one and one half pounds (have your butcher give you a 
piece of suet). Pound well and season with salt and pepper. 
Make a dressing— using one cup of bread crumbs, one of 
mashed potatoes, one half a cup of suet chopped fine, sea- 
soned with one teaspoonful of thyme, one half of pepper, and 
one of salt. Mix them together and roll the beef around 
the dressing. Bind securely with tape and put in a kettle 
with a pint of boiling water. Boil slowly one half hour. 
Place in a baking-pan, adding the water in which it was 
boiled, baste frequently, and spread a paper over it to 
keep from drying. Bake twenty minutes. The gravy will 
not require thickening. Place the roll on a platter and pour 
the gravy over. Garnish with the bleached leaves of celery 
and curled parsley. 

Cranberry Jelly. — One and one half cup of cranberries, 
one half cup of water. Boil until soft. Strain, not pressing 
very hard, and, without again putting on the stove, stir in 
one cup of sugar. Beat quickly until throughly mixed ; then 
pour into four small molds. 

Mashed Potatoes. —Steam four potatoes, mash and season 
with butter and salt ; stir in rapidly two table-spoonfuls of 
milk until it becomes white and creamy. 

Creamed Onions. — Four onions cut in halves and boiled 
until done; drain off the water, and pour on one quarter of 
a cup of milk; salt and pepper, small piece of butter; cook 
them slowly for fifteen minutes. 

Squash. — Select a winter squash with a dark green rind; 
pare and steam one and one quarter pounds; press until 
dry ; season with salt, pepper, one table-spoonful of butter, 
one teaspoonful of sugar; stir it well, and keep hot until 
ready to serve. 

Celery.— One third of a bunch ; wash and scrape the white 
stalks ; sprinkle with water ; wrap in paper and keep on ice 
until dinnei. 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 35 

Chocolate Pudding.— Two cups of milk, one square of 
chocolate scraped fine. Stir in the milk and place it on the 
back of the stove. When the chocolate has dissolved, take 
two table-spoonfuls of corn starch wet with half a cup of 
water, and boil in a double boiler until it thickens, adding 
one cup of sugar, one teaspoonful of vanilla. If you have 
dry pieces of cake, you can use them, but, if not, make a 
sponge cake of one egg well beaten, three quarters of a cup 
of sugar three quarters of a cup of flour, one quarter of a 
teaspoonful of baking-powder, three teaspoonfuls of water 
When cold, line a glass dish with the cake, pour on the 
chocolate, and place on ice. 

Apple Custard.— Pare and core two sour apples. Slice 
and cook them m one quarter of a cup of water until they 
soften. Place them in a pudding dish, and sugar them, 
lake two eggs, with two table-spoonfuls of sugar and a half 
pint of milk. Grate on a little nutmeg, and bake from fif- 
teen to twenty minutes. To be served cold. 

Coffee.— Put five table-spoonfuls of coffee in a French cof- 
fee-pot Pour over four cups of boiling water, one cup at a 
* irn , e - Keep the coffee-pot where it will keep hot, but not 
boil. When all the water has been used, pour it through 
again, and serve with scalded milk, or cream, and sugar. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 20. 

SOUP. 

Tomato. 

FISH. 

Creamed Codfiish Tongues. 

MEATS. 

Hamburg Steak, with Onions. 

Baked Potatoes. Scalloped Squash. 

Pickled Cauliflower. 

DESSERT. 

Fried Cream. 
Coffee. 

COST. 

Tomato soup, 10 cents; fish, 8 cents; beef, 23 cents; onions, 
6 cents; potatoes, 3 cents; squash, 5 cents; cauliflower, 8 
cents; bread, 5 cents: butter, 7 cents; vinegar, 5 cents; 
milk, 3 cents; coffee, 6 cents; corn starch, 1 cent; eggs and 
lard, 8 cents. Total, $1, ° 



36 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

PREPARATION. 

Tomato Soup. — One quart tomatoes, one pint water. Boil 
twenty minutes, strain through a coarse sieve, using a spoon 
to mash it through ; return the soup to the saucepan, add 
one table-spoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of sugar, a little 
salt, a dash or two of red pepper, one half teaspoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce. Beat a table- spoonful of corn starch 
with a little water until smooth ; add to the soup. Let it 
boil up, and it is ready to serve. 

Creamed Codfish Tongues. —Soak, one and one half pints of 
corned codfish tongues (to be found at the large fish markets) 
four or five hours in cold water. Boil until tender in some 
fresh water, and pour off. Add to the tongues one pint of 
milk, one table-spoonful of butter. Thicken with a little 
flour and the raw yelk of one egg. 

Hamburg Steak, with Onions. — Take, of the upper cut of a 
round of beef, one and one half pounds. Add to it a small 
bit of fat. Have the butcher chop it fine. Form it with the 
hands into a flat oval shape about an inch thick. Place it 
carefully on the broiler (do not break it), and broil it just as 
you would a steak, turning often. It is much nicer if left a 
little rare. When done, remove to the platter and pour over 
two table-spoonfuls of melted butter, a little salt and pepper, 
and the onions previously cooked. Clean six onions. Chop 
fine. Put a table-spoonful of suet in an iron spider ; one tea- 
spoonful of sugar, and the chopped onions, with a little salt 
and pepper. Cook one half hour, or until tender, turning 
occasionally. Keep them closely covered. When done, pour 
over the steak. A cent's worth of parsley will trim the 
dish. 

Potatoes. — Wash nicely four large potatoes; they will 
bake in an hour. 

Scalloped Squash— One small Hubbard squash ; pare, and 
remove the seeds, cut in small bits and boil in salted water 
until tender; when done, pour off the water, and dry a few 
moments on the stove ; mash fine ; add one table -spoonful but- 
ter, one of milk, a little salt and pepper, the raw yelk of one 
egg ; stir all together and put in a baking-dish ; smooth the 
top, and cover with bread crumbs; moisten with a little 
milk : bake one half hour. 

Pickled Cauliflower. — One cauliflower; boil in salted water 
until tender; place in an earthen dish; boil one pint vine- 
gar, one half cup of sugar, six cloves, six whole black pep- 
pers, six allspice together, and pour over the cauliflower ; to 
be eaten cold. 

Fried Cream.— BoU. one pint of milk, one half cup corn 
starch, one half cup sugar, a pinch of salt, and one egg welj 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 3? 

beaten, with the starch. Stir smoothly in the milk. Add one 
half teaspoonful butter, one teaspoonful vanilla. Pour into 
flat dish so it will be about one inch thick. When cold, cut 
three inches long by one inch wide, dip in beaten white of 
an egg, and roll in cracker crumbs. Take care not to break 
it. Dip once more in egg and crumbs, put in a wire basket 
and plunge in boiling fat. Fry about one minute, or until a 
delicate brown ; remove to a plate. Leave in the oven for 
for five minutes to soften the cream, and serve with pow- 
dered sugar sifted over them. 

Coffee.— Tut four table-spoonfuls coffee m a French coffee- 
pot ; pour boiling water upon it. When filtered through, pour 
off and add the same water again. Repeat the process two 
or three times. Do not let the coffee boil, but keep it very 
hot. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 21. 

Spinach Soup. 

Persillade of Haddock. 

Canton of Lamb. 

Boiled Potatoes. Cauliflower, au Gratm. 

Salad a la Romaine. 

Bread. 

Chocolate Souffle. 

Black Coffee. 

COST. 

Spinach soup, 14 cents; fish, 11 cents; lamb, 20 cents; 
potatoes, 5 cents; cauliflower, 14 cents; salad, 8 cents; 
bread, 3 cents; chocolate souffle, 12 cents; coffee, 4 cents. 
Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Spinach Soup.— Ingredients: One quart spinach, 7 cents; 
one pint milk, 4 cents ; one table-spoonful of butter, 2 cents ; 
seasoning, 1 cent. Total, 14 cents. 

Wash and trim one quart of spinach and put into a sauce- 
pan holding three quarts of boiling water and three table- 
spoonfuls of salt. Boil rapidly with the cover off till tender, 
which will be in about eight minutes. Next drain tnrough 
colender, run plenty of cold water on it, chop fine and rub 
through a sieve with a wooden spoon. While the spinach is 
boiling, prepare the soup as follows: Put the milk over the 
fire to boil, first puting into the saucepan two gills of cold 
water to prevent burning. Mix together over the fire one 
ounce of butter, the same of flour, till they bubble; then 



38 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

slowly add the boiling milk, season with salt to taste, half a 
saltspoonful of white pepper, one quarter of a saltspoonful 
of grated nutmeg. Stir in enough spinach to color a light 
green, and serve hot. 

Persillade of Haddock.— Ingredients : One pound of had- 
dock, 6 cents ; one cunce butter, 2 cents : onion and parsley, 
1 cent ; flour, bread crumbs, and seasoning, 1 cent. Total, 11 
cents. 

Make a white sauce by stirring together over the fire one 
ounce each of butter and flour till they bubble; add half a 
pint of boiling water gradually, stirring till the sauce is 
smooth, then season with a teaspoonful of salt and a quarter 
of a saltspoonful each of white pepper and grated nutmeg. 
Set the saucepan containing the sauce in a pan half full of 
boiling water, to keep it from drying up while the fish is 
prepared. Chop a table-spoonful each of onion and parsley. 
Eemove the skin and bones from one pound of cold boiled 
haddock, lay it on a buttered baking-dish, which can be sent 
to the table. Moisten with the white sauce. Sprinkle with 
the chopped onion and parsley. Dust thickly with sifted 
bread crumbs. Dot with a very little butter, and brown 
quickly in a hot oven. 

Canton of Lamb. — Ingredients: 3 \ pounds shoulder, at 6 
cents per pound, 21 cents; carrots and turnips, 2 cents; 
bread, onion, and seasoning, 2 cents ; 1 ounce butter, 2 cents ; 
1 eg^ 2 cents. Total, 29 cents. 

Lay the shoulder, which should come from the market 
uncut, on the table, with the inner part up. Cut out the 
shoulder blade and boil it to clean it throughly. Then, with 
a sharp, thin-bladed knife, cut out the first length of the 
foreleg bone and half the second, breaking it off midway 
between the first and second joints, and being careful not to 
mangle the meat or cut through the skin. Trim off the end 
of the bone to look like a duck's bill. Stuff the shoulder 
with the following forcemeats: Pare 2 small onions, and 
bring to a boil in 3 different waters ; soak 3 slices of stale 
bread in tepid water and wring it in a dry towel; scald 4 
sage leaves; when the onions are tender, chop them with 
the sage leaves, add them to the bread, with 1 ounce of but- 
ter, the yelk of 1 egg, 1 level teaspoonful of salt and half a 
saltspoonful of pepper ; mix and use. Sew it up, turn it over, 
and truss it to look like a duck. Put it in the dripping-pan 
on a few scraps of vegetables and herbs, and bake in a quick 
oven about twenty minutes to each pound. Meantime pre- 
pare the garnish by paring the carrots and turnips, cutting 
them in small dice, boiling them till tender in well-salted 
water, laying them, when cooked, in cold water to keep their 
color. When the canton is done, take.it up on a hot dish 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 30 

and keep hot while the sauce is being made. The sauce is 
made by rubbing the dripping in the pan, together with the 
vegetables, through a sieve, adding a little boiling water and 
seasoning properly. When ready to serve, heat the vege- 
tables in the sauce, arrange them around the canton, put 
the shoulder blade, which must be scraped after it is boiled, 
in the tail of the canton, and serve. This is a pretty dish if 
made according to directions, and is easily prepared. 

Broiled Potatoes. — Ingredients: 1 quart of potatoes, 3 
cents; butter and seasoning, 2 cents. Total, 5 cents. 

Wash the potatoes thoroughly, boil them in their jackets 
and let them cool before peeling them, to keep them moist. 
Peel them, slice them half an inch thick, broil on a buttered 
gridiron, and serve hot, with butter, pepper, and salt. 

Cauliflower, au Gratin. — Ingredients : Cauliflower, 8 cents; 
sauce, 2 cents ; 1 ounce cheese, 2 cents ; butter, broad crumbs 
and seasoning, 2 cents. Total, 14 cents. 

Trim a cauliflower; lay it top clown in cold salted water 
for one hour, to freshen and free it from insects. Put it in 
boiling water, enough to cover it, and boil only till tender, 
about twenty minutes. Take it up without breaking. Lay 
it on a gratin dish, or one that can be sent to the table. Pour 
a gill of Bechamel sauce over it. Dust with sifted bread 
crumbs and grated cheese. Dot with bits of butter, and 
brown quickly in a hot oven. Serve hot. Bechamel sauce : 
Stir together over the fire one table-spoonful of butter and two 
of flour until they bubble ; gradually add three gills of boil- 
ing water. Season with a level teaspoonf ul of salt and a 
quarter of a saltspoonful each of white pepper and nutmeg. 

Salad a la Romaine. — Ingredients: Lettuce, 3 cents; ma- 
terials for dressing, 5 cents. Total, 8 cents. 

Freshen one head of lettuce in cold water. Tear the leaves 
apart with the fingers, but do not cut them, as it impars 
their crispness and flavor. Arrange the salad in a dish and 
pour over it the dressing, made as follows: Grate half an 
ounce of onion, mix it with a teaspoonful of lemon juice, 
a saltspoonful each of salt and powdered sugar, a level salt- 
spoonful each of white pepper and dry mustard, and then 
gradually stir into these ingredients two table-spoonfuls of 
oil and two of vinegar. 

Chocolate Souffle. — Ingredients: Three eggs, 7 cents ; two 
ounces of powdered sugar, 2 cents; one ounce of chocolate, 
3 cents. Total, 12 cents. 

Grate the chocolate and mix it with the yelks and sugar. 
Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Gently stir the whites 
into the above mixture, put it by the table- spoonful on a 
souffle pan and bake it golden brown in a moderate oven, 



40 One hundred prize dinners. 

dusting it with powdered sugar when it is done, or it will 
fall. 

Black Coffee. — Take two ounces of mixed Java and Mocha; 
put it in the coffee pot, with a cup and a half of boiling 
water and an egg shell. Boil fifteen minutes. Serve in 
after-dinner coffee-cups. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 22. 

SOUP. 

Tomato. 

roast. 

Turkey, with Cranberry Sauce. 

vegetables. 

Mashed White Potatoes. Sweet Potatoes. 

Boiled Onions a la Creme. 

Baked Macaroni au Gratin. 

DESSERT. 

Apple-Manioca Pudding. 

Cider. 

Bread and Butter. 

COST. 

One half can tomatoes, 4 cents; 4 pounds turkey, at 12i 
cents, 50 cents; one quarter package macaroni, 3 cents; tea- 
cupful milk, 2 cents ; 1 table-spoonful grated cheese. 1 cent ; 

4 onions, 3 cents; milk sauce, 2 cents; 4 white potatoes, 3 
cents; 1 large sweet potato (quartered), 2 cents; cranberries, 

5 cents ; sugar, 1 cup, 4 cents ; 1 quart cider, 8 cents ; bread 
and butter, 5 cents; extra salt and pepper, 1 cent; apple 
manioca pudding, 7 cents. Total, $1. 

preparation. 

Tomato Soup. — Take one half can tomatoes, stew and 
strain through a sieve ; season to taste with pepper, salt, a 
little sugar and butter. 

Roast Turkey.— Wash and dry thoroughly, stuff with 
bread crumbs seasoned with thyme. Roast in dripping pan 
for about one hour if oven is hot, and baste over to have it 
brown. Chop the giblets fine and put in a gravy, which is 
made in the dripping pan (after removing the turkey) by 
adding a teaspoonful of flour and a little water. 

Cranberry Sauce.— Stew a half pint cranberries in a cup 
of water with a cup of sugar ; boil until soft. 

Mashed White Potatoes.— Boil tgur white potatoes in 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 41 

salted water, mash with a pounder and beat with a fork 
until creamy. 

Sweet Potatoes.— Boil one very large sweet potato until 
done, and divide into four parts. 

Onions a la Creme.— Boil four medium sized onions until 
done; add half cupful of milk, thicken with one teaspoonful 
of flour, and season with pepper, salt and a small piece of 
butter. 

Macaroni au Gratin.—BoU one quarter package maca- 
roni, broken in small pieces, until tender; place in small 
baking dish a layer of macaroni ; then a layer of cheese al- 
ternately ; then pour over all a cupful of milk ; bake until 
brown. 

Apple Manioca Pudding.— Soak two table-spoonfuls of 
manioca in the dish in winch it is to be baked ; add two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, and let soak fifteen minutes; pare and 
core four good sized apples, fill with sugar and ground cin- 
namon; put them in manioca and bake until apples are 
done ; serve warm, not hot. 



BILL OF FAEE NO. 23. 

Canadian Pea Soup, with Celery. 

Chicken Fricassee on Toast, with Jelly. 

Flaked Potatoes. Baked Sweet Potatoes. 

Spinach, with Egg Dressing. 

Ginger Pudding. 
Bread. Coffee. 

COST. 

One third pound split peas, 2 cents; one quarter pound 
pork, 3 cents; one onion, 1 cent; one chicken, 30 cents; 
bread, 5 cents; three quarters pound flour, 3 cents; one 
quarter pound butter, 7 cents; one cup suet, 1 cent; one 
half cup molasses, 3 cents; one half teaspoonful ginger, 1 
cent; quarter peck spinach, 5 cents; one egg, 2h cents; pars- 
ley and savory, 2£ cents; sweet and whitepotatoes, 6 cents; 
one half pound sugar, 4 cents; four table-spoonfuls coffee, 4 
cents; half pint milk, 2 cents; wineglass sherry, 4 cents; 
celery, 5 cents; one half pound jelly, 5 cents; seasonings, 4 
cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Pea Soup.— Take one third of a pound of peas. Put into 
three pints of water. Cut the pork into pieces the size of 
dice, with one onion, one half bunch of parsley chopped fine. 
Boil all two hours. Add water, so that when done there 
will be three pints. 



42 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

Chicken Fricassee. — Cut the chicken in small pieces and 
cover with water and one onion cut fine. Boil until tender, 
with one teaspoonful of butter and one teaspoonful of flour 
to thicken the liquor. Toast four slices of bread and put 
the chicken on the toast. Cover with gravy, garnish with 
parsley and serve. 

Flaked Potato, — Take four large potatoes, peel and boil. 
When done, put a piece of butter and a pinch of salt on 
them. Just before serving put them through a potato press. 

Spinach. — One quarter of a peck of spinach. Wash well 
and then cOver with water and one teaspoonful of salt. Boil 
until tender; then drain them dry and season with butter, 
pepper and salt. Boil one egg hard. Cut in slices and 
garnish. 

, Baked Sweet Potato.— Four good sized sweet potatoes. 
Bake in a hot oven half an hour and serve immediately. 

Ginger Pudding— One eighth of a pound or one cup of suet, 
chopped fine; one half cup of molasses, three quarters of a 
cup of water, one half table-spoonful of ginger, one half of a 
teaspoonful of salt, half teaspoonful soda dissolved in a little 
water, flour to thicken. Put the soda in the last thing be- 
fore the flour. Put in a mold or pudding -bag and boil two 
hours. Sauce: One table-spoonful of butter, three table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, a wineglass of sherry. Beat all to a 
cream. 

Coffee, — Take four table-spoonfuls of coffee, put in a thin 
muslin bag with a pinch of salt. Cover with one and one 
half pints of water. When it comes to a boil, put back to 
settle. If milk is used boil it. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 24. 

Black Bean Soup. 

Boiled Haddock, Sauce. 

Roast Loin of Lamb. 

Mashed White Potatoes. Tomatoes. 

Spinach. Sweet Potatoes. 

SALAD. 

Chicory, with French Dressing. 

DESSERT. 

Rennet. Coffee. 

COST. 

Beans and soup bone, 8 cents ; seasoning, 2 cents ; eggs, 5 
cents; fish, 2 pounds at 8 cents per pound, 16 cents; spin- 
ach, 5; potatoes, 3; tomatoes, 5—13 cents; bread, 3 cents; 



one hundred prize dinners. 43 

butter, 3 ounces, 6 cents; milk, 3 cents; salad, 7 cents; cof- 
fee, 5 cents ; sugar, 2 cents ; lamb, 2% pounds at 12 cents per 
pound, 30 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Soup.— Ingredients: One scant pint of black beans, one 
small soup bone, half of an onion, one bay leaf, three 
table-spoonfuls of tomato catsup, one egg, one lemon; 
Wash the beans the night before using and put them 
to soak. The next day throw off the water, put in 
soup pot with two quarts of cold water, add soup bone, 
onion, bay leaf, pepper and salt. Boil slowly until beans 
are cooked. Then strain through a colander and add 
the egg, hard boiled and cut into small pieces, also the lemon 
cut into small bits. Fry two slices of bread and crisp 
brown, cut into dice and serve it in the soup immediately. 

Boiled Haddock. — Two pounds of* fish, wrap in a cloth, 
put into sufficient water to cover it ; half teaspoonful salt : 
boil twenty minutes; serve with drawn butter. 

Drawn Butter. — Two table-spoonfuls of milk, one teaspoon- 
ful of flour, one teaspoonful of butter (scant) ; wet flour with 
cold water; boil milk and butter together ; add table-spoonful 
water to the wet flour, put into milk and serve on the fish 
after the skin is removed. 

Loin of Lamb. — 12i cents per pound, 30 cents; 2 pounds 
of loin, rolled and tied with outside skin removed. Roast 
three-quarters of an hour. 

Spinach. — One quart of spinach, 7i cents; boiled a half 
hour; strain through a colander; chop fine, add salt and 
pepper, half teaspoonful of butter ; serve with one hard boiled 
egg cut into thin slices. 

Sweet Potatoes in Sugar. — Two sweet potatoes boiled until 
tender, peel, and cut into slices half an inch thick, sprinkle 
with sugar and fry in teaspoonful of hot butter to a light 
brown. 

Tomatoes. — One half can of tomatoes, cook until free from 
lumps, season with salt, pepper and a half a teaspoonful of 
sugar. 

White Potatoes — Three white potatoes ; boiled, peeled and 
washed, and one table-spoonful of milk, half teaspoonful of 
butter, salt and pepper. 

Salad. — Chicory — One head of chicory served with French 
dressing. 

French Dressing. Two table-spoonfuls of sweet oil, one 
table-spoonful vinegar, saltspoonf ul of red pepper and half 
a teaspoonful of salt, all mixed together thoroughly. 

Rennet Custard.— Four custard-cupfuls milk, one table- 
spoonful rennet, one table-spoonful sugar and a little nut- 



44 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS; 

meg. Warm the milk slightly, add rennet and sugar". 
Pour into four custard cups and grate a little nutmeg on the 
top of each cup. Set away to cool two hours before serving. 
Coffee. — Two ounces of Momaga coffee. Put the ground 
coffee in the pot dry ; then put a table-spoonful of cold water 
on it and shake well ; add one pint of boiling water ; let it 
simmer on the back of the range while dinner is served. 
Before using add one teaspoonful of cold water, and let it 
stand for two minutes to settle. 



BILL OF FARE No. 25. 

Do strike us a light! What is this we behold ? 

For the best bill of fare, a big bag of gold 

To the lady who gives us the most things to eat; 

In style must she serve them, all nice and complete. 

Four hungry ones fed. Our larder all cleaned out and airing 

And wise ones to eye us; the feat is quite daring. 

But "Multum in Parvo " being always on time,' 

Will try it and give you a menu in rhyme. 

While thinking it over what soup to present, 

Our Johnnie appears and holds up a cent. 

" What kind of a soup ? You just make it noodle; 

I'll bet you this red she scoops the boodle. 

And that jolly salt cod—well, I should exclaim! 

Fix up one to-day — don't need any name. 

Pork scraps and egg cream cost so little money." 

Was there anything else? No, it w T ill do, Johnnie. 

For meat let us think. Oh! the poor little lamb, 

So naughty to kill you, but it's nice all the same; 

Steamed tender with biscuit all Huffy as wool : 

You whisper, the inventor was nobody's fool. 

Says Jonnie, " Serve up with spiced applesass, 

And garnish the platter with smart peppergrass !" 

You smile now, as toasted potatoes you see. 

With a wink, just from Erin a Micke}^ Frizee. 

What! More? Oh, a bright yellow sweet. 

Then, steaming and hot, a boiled sugar beet, 

With turnip in slices all seasoned up gray; 

If you do not w T ish onions, will take them away; 

Try these; they are nice — the recipe is Aunt Mattie's, 

Quite easy to make, and she calls them rice patties. 

We have traveled abroad, are nice to a fault; 

We order our butter just made without salt. 

" Ah! Bon." But listen, here is the Log-Cabin Bread. 

On this sort of cake the 1840 men fed. 

The pudding belongs to the same generation. 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 45 

Its name is to-day the pride of the nation; 

Must be served up with foam sauce, on silver plates, too. 

We won't keep you waiting — it's " Tippecanoe." 

And now come the pinch, only two pennies more 

To furnish the coffee — do wish we had four. 

Those gay little cups called Haviland's fine 

Hold just enough and will suit to a chime; 

Look to me more like a " slip of the noose " trick. 

Not another word. Johnnie, give them each a tooth-pick. 

[Exit Johnnie. 

May those who have proven they know how to cook, 
See their names and recipes bound in a book 
And sold for " two bits " to saint and to sinner, 
All gilt-edge, with name, " The One-Dollar Dinner." 

— Johnnie's Aunt. 

cost. 
Soup, 7 cents ; fish, 10 cents ; lamb and biscuit^ 40 cents : 
vegetables, 10 cents; milk for onions, 1 cent; rice patties, 7 
cents; apples and peppergrass, 4 cents; bread and butter, 9 
cents ; pudding, 10 cents ; coffee, 2 cents. Total, $1» 

PREPARATION. 

Noodle Soup. — Take one half pint of black beans soaked 
in water over night. Boil one half hour, then pour away 
the water, add one twelfth jar beef extract, a few bits of salt 
pork, cut fine, one onion, one tablespoonful of grated carrot 
and two quarts of water. Boil three hours, or until the 
water is reduced one half. Strain through a fine sieve and 
return to kettle. When boiling, drop in the noodles. Boil 
five minutes before taking to the table. 

Noodles. — Take one egg slightly beaten ; one tablespoonful 
of cold water, and a small pinch of salt ; add flour enough to 
make a siiff dough, roll as thin as a wafer, sprinkle over 
with flour, and roll up into a tight roll. Cut into thin slices 
and let dry for one hour before putting into the soup. This 
rule makes noodles enough for two gallons of soup. 

Salt Codfish. — Take one pound of the thick part of a salt 
codfish. Soak six or eight hours in plenty or cold water, 
changing the water two or three times. Place over the fire 
in a fish-kettle, with cold water. The moment it boils, 
remove to the back of the stove, and let simmer until tender. 
Dish upon a napkin to free from bones. Garnish with rings 
of hard boiled -eggs, and pork scraps fried a delicate brown. 
Pour over it half a cup equal parts milk and cream, scalded. 
Serve with boiled beet cut in thin slices, dusted with pepper 
and salt, and crumbs of butter— and boiled onions, too, if 
you please. 



46 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

Steamed Lamb. — Take one and three quarter pounds of 
loin of lamb, free from bone. Trim off the fat, rub over with 
pepper and salt and a little nutmeg. Place it into steamer 
over a kettle of boiling water. Steam until tender. Keep 
enough water in the kettle for half a pint of gravy when 
done. Dish upon platter; lay biscuit around it. Thicken 
gravy with a little flour and add a lump of butter the size of 
a hickory -nut. Let boil ten minutes and pour it over the 
meat. Serve with spiced apple. 

Flannel Biscuit. — One half a cup sweet milk, one teaspoon- 
ful of yeast powder, pinch of salt, flour enough to make a 
batter that will drop from a spoon, beat the white of an egg 
to a froth and stir it in last. Butter a pie-tin and drop the 
batter on with a spoon, put into a steamer, cover close and 
steam twenty minutes. Do not check the boiling for an 
instant or remove the cover. 

Spiced Apple. — Three pounds of sweet apples; pare, core, 
and cut in quarters. Then parboil in one half a pint of weak 
vinegar or hard cider. Take them out carefully and strain 
through a colander, pouring back into the kettle whatever 
juice is drained off. Then add one and a half pounds of 
sugar and one half a pint of strong vinegar. Boil and skim. 
Add spices (which should be sewed up in a thin muslin bag), 
one tablespoonful of cinnaman, one half teaspoonful each of 
mace and cloves. Return apples to kettle. Cook until 
they look clear and soft. Put in a jar and let stand twenty- 
four hours. Then drain off the juice again and boil down to 
a thick syrup. This recipe makes two quarts of spiced 
apple. 

Toasted Potatoes. — Take two large- sized potatoes (white) ; 
pare them ; boil until soft. When cold, cut in slices length- 
wise, sprinkle over with pepper and salt, and toast over the 
coals until brown. Butter while hot. Serve on individual 
platters with part of a boiled sweet potato on each. 

Rice Patties. — Take three quarters of a cupful of rice. 
Cook slowly. Do not stir with a spoon. Shake the pan to 
keep from burning. Cook thirty minutes. When nearly 
cold, make into small oblong balls and let stand until thor- 
oughly cold. Beat one egg, and dip each into it. Roll in 
flour,|and fry in hot lard until brown. Skim out and take 
to the table while hot. 

Boiled Onions.— Feel, then boil twenty minutes. Pour 
off water and add enough to cover. Boil until soft. Skim 
out and season with pepper, salt, and crumbs of butter. 

Log-Cabin Bread. — Take one pint of flour (coarse wheat 
or sifted graham), half a cup of white cornmeal, one cup of 
warm water, half a cent's worth of brewer's yeast, half a cup 
of maple syrup, half a teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 47 

pork drippings, add yelk of one egg and a pinch of allspice. 
Mix all well together, useing sufficient flour to knead well. 
Set in a warm place until light ; then make into small ob- 
long rolls to represent logs. Place close together in a 
quadrangular bread-pan and let rise again. When quite 
light, bake three quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. 

Tippecanoe Pudding. — One cup of grated bread, one half 
cup of chopped raisins, one cup of jsweet milk, a lump of 
soda the size of a bean, one half cup of molasses, one egg, 
one quarter teaspoonful of cinnamon, one quarter of a nut- 
meg, tablespoonful of chopped suet. Stir together. Put in a 
tin pail and cover close. Steam an hour and a half. 

Foam Sauce.— Take butter the size of an egg, one half 
cup of white sugar. Eub together to a froth; then pour 
over it one half cup of boiling water. Stir briskly while 
pouring. Serve with pudding, hot. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 26. 

Mock Terrapin Soup. 

Crimped Codfish (sauce tartare). 

Calf's Liver a la Bordelaise. 

Carrots maitre d' hotel. Potato snow. 

Lettuce and Celery Salad, with French Dressing. 

Cocoanut Pudding. 

Coffee. 

cost. 
Calf's liver, 40 cents; two pounds fresh cod, 16 cents; 
three eggs, 7 cents; vegetables, 13 cents; lettuce and celery, 
5 cents; bread, 3 cents; one half cocoanut, 5 cents; coffee 
5 cents ; wine, 6 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Mock Terrapin Soup. — First get a calf's liver weighing 
about two and a half pounds. Cut off about half a pound 
for the soup. Put it into a saucepan of cold water and par- 
boil it. Then set it away until needed. In the meantime 
cut up a slice of fat pork or bacon in small pieces, and put 
them in the bottom of a pan. Add one table-spoonful of 
flour. Brown that, and then put in the same pan the 
chopped vegetables previously prepared, also a table-spoon- 
ful of tomatoes, pepper and salt. Add a quart of boiling 
water, and boil until the vegetables are tender. This recipe 
thus far is an excellent sauce for meat or fish. For the soup 
continue in this wise : Mash the vegetables through a sieve. 



48 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

Add more water if necessary, with a few cloves, a flavor of 
nutmeg, a wineglass of wine, and the piece of parboiled liver 
cut into dice. 

Put in egg balls the last thing, made as follows : 

Egg Balls. — Beat the yelks of two raw eggs lightly. Stir 
in enough flour for a stiff paste, salt and pepper, and roll 
into balls one fourth of an inch in diameter. Drop into the 
soup five minutes before serving. 

Crimped Codfish. — Soak two slices of fresh cod an inch 
thick, two hours in ice water. Put them into a stew pan 
and pour over enough salted boiling water to cover them 
and let them simmer about ten minutes. Place them neatly 
on a platter on a folded napkin, garnish with parsley and 
serve with tartar sauce. 

Sauce Tartar e. — Beat well the yelk of a raw egg, add two 
saltspoonfuls of salt, and one of dry mustard, work well 
together, pour in slowly about two table-spoonfuls of salad 
oil, alternating with a few drops of vinegar or lemon juice, 
and a light dash of cayenne pepper. When these are well- 
mixed, add two table - spoonfuls of capers, a very small 
onion minced fine, a small cucumber pickle cut fine, and a 
little parsley. 

Calfs Liver a la Bordelaise. — Get a liver weighing two 
and one half pounds, and cut off a small piece for the soup. 
Take the large piece, make incisions, and insert strips of fat 
pork. Take a table-spoonful of chopped pork, with the same 
quantity of carrots, onions, parsley, and turnips, and a few 
cloves. Lay all this in the bottom of a pan, lay the larded 
liver over it, and place in a hot oven, and cook till thorough- 
ly done, then take it out, dredge a little flour into the pan, 
pour on water and make a gravy to be served with the 
liver. 

Carrots.— Clean and scrape the carrots. Cut in dice. 
Boil until tender. Then drain and wash in cold water. 
Send to table with the following sauce poured over them : 

White Sauce. — Take one table-spoonful each of butter and 
flour. Place in a pan over the fire, and stir until a smooth 
paste. Then add one half pint of boiling water, salt, and 
pepper, chopped parsley, and the juice of half a lemon. Do 
not let it boil after the lemon is added, or it will curdle. 

Potato Snow. — Pare the potatoes, and boil in salted water. 
When done, add butter and milk, and mash them through a 
colander or sieve, and serve immediately. 

Salad. — Slice the celery lengthwise. Then cut into small 
pieces. Mix with lettuce, and serve with French dressing. 

French Dressing is generally made at table, and consists 
of a little vinegar, oil, salt, pepper, and a teaspoonful of 
sugar. Mix and pour over the salad, 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 49 

Cocoanut Pudding.— Take one pint of milk, two table- 
spoonfuls of corn starch, half cup of sugar, the whites of 
three eggs, and any flavoring. Dissolve the corn starch in 
a little of the milk, place the remainder over the fire with 
the sugar stirred in. When it begins to boil, add the corn 
starch. Stir constantly. The eggs beaten to a stiff froth 
can now be added, also half a grated cocoanut, Put it into 
a mold. When set, turn it into a dish, and serve with rich 
milk. 

Coffee.— So many good recipes have been given, it is not 
necessary to repeat. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 27. 

SOUP. 

Vegetable. 

MEAT. 

Porterhouse Steak. Calf's Brains, 

VEGETABLES. 

Chopped White Potatoes. Spinach. 
Oyster Plant. 

SALAD. 

Lettuce. Mayonaise Dressing. 

DESSERT. 

Plum Pudding, hard sauce. 
Coffee. 

COST. 

Soup bone, 5 cents; vegetables, 4 cents; steak, 25 cents; 
calf's brains, 10 cents ; Irish potatoes, 4 cents ; spinach, quar- 
ter peck, 6 cents; oyster plant, 5 cents; lettuce, one bead 
3 cents; parsley and thyme, 1 cent; pudding, 16 cents 
sauce, 9 cents ; coffee, 8 cents ; two rolls cut in two, 2 cents 
one egg, 2 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Vegetable Soup.— Beet bone cracked, two potatoes, one 
onion, one carrot, one turnip, thyme. Let the bone simmer 
slowly for two hours, in two quarts of water, after which 
cut vegetables in thin slices, and let all simmer one hour 
more; add a table-spoonful of flour, moistened with cold 
water, and one teaspoonf ul of Worcestershire sauce ; strain 
or not, as you choose. 

Beefsteak. — This must be carefully broiled. 

Calfs Brains.— Wash thoroughly in cold water, removing 
all blood and strings; parboil ten minutes; cut in eight 
pieces, dip in beaten egg, then flour, pepper, and salt; fry 



50 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

with a small piece of butter; take out and keep warm; add 
a little water to the butter they were fried in, and a very- 
little browned flour; add finely chopped parsley, and pour 
over the brains; garnish with lemon cut in slices, if you 
choose. 

White Potatoes.— Boiled, cooled and chopped fine, say one 
half inch square. Add salt, butter, and a little milk, with 
very little flour dusted over and stirred in. Put in sauce- 
pan, and heat thoroughly. 

Spinach.— Boil twenty minutes. Pour off the water, and 
drain dry. Chop, add pepper, salt, butter, and teaspoonful 
of cream. Garnish with one hard boiled egg cut in slices, 
if desired. 

Oyster Plant— Scrape, cut in thin slices, and stew half an 
hour. Pour off part of the water. Add salt, pepper, a 
table-spoonful milk, with a sprinkle of flour. 

Lettuce Dressing.— Yelk of one egg, two table-spoonfuls 
vinegar, pinch of salt and pepper, beaten hard; then grad- 
ually add oil, drop at a time, until the right consistency has 
been reached. 

Plum Pudding.— One cup suet chopped very fine, one cup 
milk, one cup black molasses with one teaspoonful soda in 
it, one cup seeded raisins, two teaspoonfuls cloves, two tea- 
spoonfuls cinnamon, three cups flour. Mix all together. 
Beat thoroughly, and boil or steam three hours in steamer. 

Sauce.— One quarter cup of butter, one cup granulated 
sugar, very small wineglass of sherry. Cream butter, and 
sugar carefully, add large table-spoonful of boiling water; 
add wine last, beating hard until very white and thick. 
Keep in cool place before serving. 

Coffee. — One cup of ground Java coffee; stir in part of a 
broken eger, shell and all; pour over one quart of boiling 
water; boil slowly fifteen minutes, and set aside to settle. 
Stir occasionally, that the egg may not burn. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 28. 

Clam Soup. 

Roast Chicken. 

Stewed Tomatoes. 

String Beans. 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Plum Pudding. 

Coffee. 

COST. 

Chicken, 40 cents; clams, 6 cents; tomatoes, 6 cents; beans, 
5 cents; potatoes, 6 cents; pepper, butter, salt, flour, eggs, 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 51 

10 cents ; bread, suet, spices and sugar, 15 cents ; raisins and 
orange peel, 8 cents ; coffee, 4 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Clam Soup*. — Select eight large clams, and after chopping 
them finely add the liquor to the meat. Add one pint of 
cold water, and putting meat, liquor and water into a clean 
pan, allow them to simmer gently, but not boil, about one 
hour and a half. Every particle of meat should be so well 
cooked that you seem to have only a thick broth. Season 
to taste and pour into a tureen in which a few slices of well 
browned toast have been placed. Then add a teacup of new 
milk and one egg. Beat the latter very light. Add slowly 
the milk. Beat hard a minute or so, and when the soup is 
removed from the fire stir the egg and milk into it. 

Roast Chicken. — Singe your chicken and truss carefully. 
Season with salt, put small bits of butter over the meat and 
place it in a pan with a little water. Baste occasionally and 
dredge with flour before taking from the oven. 

Steived Tomatoes.— Fat half a can of tomatoes in a stew 
pan, adding a little salt, pepper, butter and a teaspoonful of 
grated bread. Cover the pan closely and set over the fire 
for nearly an hour. Shake the pan occasionally, so they 
may not burn. Serve hot. 

String Beans.— String, snap and wash one quart of beans. 
Boil in plenty of water about fifteen minutes. Drain off and 
put on again in about one quart of boiling water. Boil one 
and a half hours. Add pepper and salt just before taking 
off, stirring in a teaspoonful of butter rubbed into one tea- 
spoonful of flour. 

Mashed Potatoes. — Peel one quart of potatoes. Boil until 
done, adding salt. Mash, with a little butter, milk and 
pepper added. 

Plum Pudding.— Three ounces bread crumbs mixed with 
three ounces of suet chopped fine, adding one half ounce of 
following spices, viz. : Mace ginger, cinnamon, allspice ; two 
ounces sugar and two eggs mixed together, adding six ounces 
raisins and three ounces sliced orange peel. Put in a tin box 
like a cocoa box. Grease the box well. Tie cover on and 
plunge into pot of boiling water. Boil for two hours. Sauce, 
for pudding; Two ounces melted butter mixed with four 
ounces powdered sugar. 

Coffee.— One half cup ground coffee. Clear with a little 
of the white of an egg. Moisten with cold water, then add 
one quart of hot water and let it boil ten minutes. 



52 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS, 

BILL OF FARE NO. 29. 

Panned Oysters on Toast. 

Stewed Chicken and Gravy. 

Mashed Potatoes. Steamed Squash* 

Bread. Celery. Butter. 

Cabbage Salad with Egg. 

Prune Pudding. 

Coffee. 
Oranges. Nuts. 

COST. 

Oysters, 12 cents; chicken, 30 cents; potatoes, 3 cents; 
squash, 2 cents; celery, 4 cents; half loaf bread, 3 cents; 
butter 5 cents; cabbage, 3 cents; pudding 10 cents; nuts, 10 
cents ; oranges, 5 cents ; coffee, 3 cents ; sugar, 4 cents ; milk, 
4 cents ; egg, 2 cents ; total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Panned Oysters. — Twelve good sized oysters, with liquor. 
Add one gill of water. Salt and pepper to taste. Let them 
come to a boil, turning often so that they will cook equally 
on both sides. Cut four slices of bread anvil shape, brown 
it and spread with butter. Place on a warm platter, with 
three oysters on each piece, and equally distribute the juice. 
Serve hot and as quickly as possible. 

Stewed Chicken. — Season and stew a chicken (two pounds) 
in two quarts of water until tender. Take out the chicken 
on a hot plate and keep it warm while preparing the gravy. 
Mix a little flour and water smoothly and make a thick 
gravy. Put the chicken in the gravy and let it come to a 
boil. Serve it on a platter and the gravy in a boat. 

Mashed Potatoes.— Boil the potatoes until soft. Drain and 
mash. Moisten with milk. Add butter the size of a hickory 
nut. Season with salt. Beat with a fork until light. 

Steamed Squash. — Take one quarter of a small Hubbard 
squash. Pare and cut it in slices. Put in a steamer and 
steam until tender. Then mash; add butter the size of a 
walnut, a table-spoonful of milk and a pinch of salt. 

Cabbage Salad.— One pint of finely chopped cabbage. 
Make a dressing of one third of a teacup of vinegar, a pinch 
of butter, one teaspoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of dry- 
mustard, salt and pepper. Heat together, and, when cold, 
mix thoroughly with the cabbage. Boil one egg very hard, 
and when cold cut in thin slices and use for garnishing. 

Prune Pudding.— Soak half a pound of prunes in hot 
water over night. In the morning remove pits and beat 
fine with a fork. Add one half a teacupful of sugar and the 



One hundred prize dinners. 53 

beaten whites of two eggs. Then beat all together until very- 
light. 

Sauce.— Take the yelks of the two eggs, one good sized 
table-spoonful of sugar, one cup of milk and water, half of 
each. When cold, flavor with vanilla. Serve pudding in a 
dessert dish and pour the sauce around it. 

Coffee. — Three table-spoonfuls of coffee, ground very fine. 
Make in a strainer coffee pot. Pour enough boiling water 
over to make four cups of coffee. Use cream skimmed 
from a pint of milk for coffee and whip it. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 30. 

White Soubise Soup. 

Farcied Oysters, Spanish Sauce. 

Chicken Pie, Cranberry Sauce. 

Stuffed Potatoes. Squash. Celery. 

Veal Salad. Bread. 

Coffee Jelly, with Cream (Vanilla Flavoring), 

Niagara Grapes. 

Black Coffee. 

COST. 

Soup, 5 cents; half chicken, 21 cents; crust, 7 cents; oys- 
ters, with sauce, 15 cents; cranberries, 4 cents; potatoes, 2 
cents ; squash, 2 cents ; cream, 5 cents ; celery, 5 cents ; 
salad, 6 cents; bread, 3 cents; sugar, 4 cents; two ounces 
coffee, 4 cents; quarter pound butter, 6 cents; parsley, 1 
cent ; two eggs, 4 cents ; coffee jelly, 3 cents ; grapes, 3 cents. 
Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Soujp. — Cut two good sized onions in small pieces, put 
them in a stewpan with one ounce of butter. Cover and 
cook over a slow fire three quarters of an hour, being care- 
ful not to let them burn. When tender add one half pint of 
milk, a little over a pint of white stock (from the chicken) 
one pint of stale bread crumbs ; simmer gently five minutes. 
Press through a fine sieve, return to the fire and heat. Add 
salt and pepper. 

Farcied Oysters,— One half pint select oysters. Chop five 
ounces of cold cooked veal, one ounce ham very fine. Then 
pound with masher and add a table-spoonful of chopped 
parsley, the same of butter, two table-spoonfuls of bread 
crumbs. Season with salt and pepper. Put a layer of the 
stuffing in the bottom of a shallow gem iron or oyster shells. 
JPlace on top of this two oysters and cover over with mora 



54 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

stuffing and so continue until all the gems or shells are filled. 
Place in quick oven ten minutes to brown. 

Spanish Sauce. — Put one ounce of butter in a saucepan. 
Add a table- spoonful of flour; mix until smooth. Add half 
pint of stock. Stir continually until it boils. Season with 
salt and pepper. Take from fire and add the well beaten 
yelk of one egg. Do not boil after adding the egg. 

Chicken Pie.— Boil one half of chicken cut in pieces until 
tender. Take out and place in dish. Season with pepper 
and salt and a sprinkle of flour over the top. Add a little 
gravy. 

Crust. — One pint of flour, one small piece of lard, two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking power, a little salt. Mix with water as 
for biscuit. Roll about an inch thick, and put over the top. 

Cranberry Sauce. —Add water to berries and sugar to 
taste. Stew until done. 

Stuffed Potatoes. — Bake four good sized potatoes. When 
done cut off the ends and remove the inside. Season with 
butter, salt, pepper and a little chopped onion. Return the 
same to the shell and replace in the oven to warm. Serve 
in napkins. 

Squash.— Either bake or boil, and season to taste. 

Veal Salad.— Boil five ounces of veal until tender. Cut 
in pieces. Use outside of the celery. Cut in pieces and mix 
with same. 

Salad Dressing.— Mix one tes spoonful of mustard, pepper 
(white, red and black), salt, one table-spoonful of sugar, two 
table-spoonfuls of cream, one small piece of butter. Beat 
well together and let boil. When cool thin with a little vine- 
gar, and flour over the salad, and garnish with celery leaves. 

Coffee Jelly. — Add one pint of water to coffee grounds left 
from breakfast, add two table-spoonfuls of gelatine. When 
dissolved, strain and set away in cool place to thicken. 
Serve with sweetened cream, flavored with vanilla. 

Black Coffee. — Made the usual way. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 31. 

Roast— Loin of Lamb. 

Mashed Potatoes. Macaroni. 

Celery. 

Tapioca Pudding. 

Black Coffee. 

COST. 

Lamb, 48 cents; potatoes, 5 cents; macaroni, 7 cents; cel- 
ery, 5 cents; bread, 5 cents: butter, 8 cents; pudding, 18 
cents ; coffee, 4 cents. Total, $1. 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 55 

PREPARATION. 

RoaM Lamb. — Wash and thoroughly salt three pounds of 
loin of lamb, place in pan, and roast in a hot oven until ten- 
der and nicely browned. 

Ghravy. — Remove the meat, leaving the drippings in the 
pan, pour off the fatty portion of the drippings, and put the 
pan on the stove. Take a table-spoonful of flour, and mix 
with a little cold water until smooth. Stir into the hot drip- 
pings, and gradually add enough boiling water to secure the 
proper consistency. 

Mashed Potatoes. — Boil one quart of white potatoes until 
soft. Drain, mash until smooth. Add one half teacupful 
of milk, and beat with a fork until light and creamy. 

Macaroni. — One quarter package macaroni; break into 
inch pieces; add one teaspoonful of salt, and one pint boiling 
water; boil twenty or thirty minutes; remove from the 
stove, drain, and throw into cold water for two or three 
minutes; drain again, put into well-greased bake-dish, and 
cover with the following sauce : 

Sauce. — Melt one table-spoonful of butter in a pan on the 
stove ; stir into this one table-spoonful of flour, and one third 
teaspoonful salt; stir until smooth; then add one half tea- 
cupful of milk, and two table- spoonfuls of grated cheese; 
stir until smooch and quite thick ; it must be thin enough to 
run partially through the macaroni, and yet thick enough 
to allow a covering to remain over the top; sprinkle one ta- 
ble-spoonful of grated cheese over all, and bake in a hot oven 
until nicely browned. 

Celery. — Wash, separate, and place in glass. 

Pudding. — Half a cup of pearl tapioca soaked in water 
over night. One pint of milk put on the stove to scald. 
Mix the well-beaten yelks of three eggs, three table-spoon- 
fuls of granulated sugar and the tapioca together. Stir this 
into the well-scalded milk, and cook until it will drop rather 
than run from the spoon. Flavor with vanilla, and pour 
into dish. Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, add 
five table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, and pour over the 
top of pudding. To be served cold. 

Coffee.— Over two table-spoonfuls of ground coffee, pour 
one cup of boiling water. Let it steep, but not boil, twenty 
or thirty minutes, and just before serving add enough boil- 
ing water to make four small cups. 



56 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

BILL OF FAEE NO. 32. 

Oysters au Beurre Noir. 

Baked White-fish, Sauce Hollandaise. 

Sweet Potatoes. Lima Beans, 

Potato Salad. 

Brown Betty, Lemon Egg Sauce. 

Coffee. 

COST. 

Oysters and butter, 17 cents ; fish, 40 cents ; sauce Holland- 
aise, 2 eggs, 1 lemon, 1 table-spoonful butter, 8 cents ; Lima 
beans, 7 cents; sweet potatoes, 3 cents; potato salad, oil, 
egg, and onion, 7 cents; Brown Betty, 6 cents; bread, 2 
cents; cream and sugar, 5 cents; coffee, 5 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Oysters au Beurre Noir. — First brown a table-spoonful of 
butter to a golden brown, and set aside. Heat one teaspoon- 
ful of vinegar. Drain the liquor from the oysters. Put 
them in a saucepan with salt and pepper; snake several 
times to keep from sticking, and cook till done. Drain the 
liquor off again, and put in hot dish. Add the vinegar to 
the browned butter, heat, and pour over oysters, and serve 
at once. 

Baked White fish. — Lay the fish in a baking-pan, having 
first scored it down the back, and pour over it half a pint of 
boiling water in which a spoonful of butter has been melted. 
Bake one hour, basting often. Slide to platter, and serve 
hot. 

Sauce Hollandaise.— Tut in a saucepan a piece of butter 
as large as a walnut, and, as it melts, add one table-spoonful 
of flour ; stir till smooth, and then add half a pint of boiling 
water or soup- stock. As it boils, stir in the beaten yelks of 
two eggs. Add the juice of half a lemon and a teaspoonful 
of fresh butter. Serve at once. 

Parboil sweet potatoes, and bake in oven. Season lima 
beans with butter and teaspoonful of flour stirred in gill of 
cream. 

Potato Salad. — Slice cold potatoes, and mince half an 
onion finely, and mix with potatoes. To the beaten yelk 
of an egg, add saltspoon of salt, pepper, and mustard. Pour 
two table-spoonfuls of salad oil, and two of vinegar, alter- 
nating one with the other until they mix well. Last, stir 
the beaten white of the egg in the dressing, and pour all 
over potatoes. 

Brown Betty. — Take half a dozen tart apples, pare, and 
Slice thin. Put a layer of apples in pudding-dish, then a 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 51 

layer of bread crumbs, then alternate layers until apples are 
used. Put half a cup of sugar, and small bits of butter on 
the top, pour over water till nearly full, and sprinkle with 
ground cinnamon. Cover to bake, but remove cover, and 
brown when nearly done. 

Lemon Egg Sauce.— Take the whites of the two eggs used 
for sauce Hollandaise. Beat until very stiff, and stir in pow- 
dered sugar until it heaps slightly. Flavor with lemon ex- 
tract. 

Coffee.— Made according to common recipes. 



BILL OF FAEE NO. 33. 

Split Pea Soup. 

Pot-roast of Beef. Mashed Potatoes. 

Macaroni, au Gratin. Fried Oyster-plant. 

Lemon Meringue Pie. 

COST. 

Soup — Peas, 3 cents; butter, 2 cents; seasoning, 2 cents; 
beef, 3i lbs., 42 cents; seasoning for gravy, 2 cents ; potatoes, 
3 cents; macaroni, 4 cents; milk, 2 cents; cheese, 3 cents; 
salsify, 12 cents; 2 eggs, 6 cents; butter, 1 cent. Lemon 
pie— Corn starch, lcent; 1 lemon, 3 cents; sugar, 3 cents; 
egg, 2 cents; flour, 3 cents; lard, 3 cents; bread, 3 cents. 
Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Soup.— One cupful of split peas soaked over night in cold 
water, two teaspoonfuls butter, one table-spoonful flour, one 
saltspoonful each of salt, pepper, and sugar, two quarts cold 
water. Put the peas over the fire in the two quarts of cold 
water; let them come slowly to a boil; simmer till the peas 
are dissolved ; as the liquid boils away, be careful to keep it 
up to the required quantity — two quarts; when soft, rub 
through a colander, and return to the fire; if too thick, di- 
lute with milk or water ; bring to a boil, and stir in the but- 
ter and flour rubbed smooth together ; season, and pour over 
dice of toast in tureen. 

Pot-roast of Beef.— Lay in a broad pot a boneless piece 
of beef three or four inches thick, cut from the round, and 
skewered into shape ; pour over it about a pint of boiling 
water ; add a few shreds of onions and a little salt ; cook 
slowly, allowing about fifteen minutes to the pound for boil- 
ing; when done, transfer to a dripping-pan, and place in the 
oven to brown while the gravy is being prepared ; skim the 



58 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

gravy, thicken with browned flour, boil up once, and add a 
dash of catsup. 

Mashed Potatoes. — Drain and mash the potatoes; when 
done, add a small piece of butter ; season with salt and pep- 
per ; moisten with milk. 

Macaroni, au Gratin. -Two cups of macaroni broken into 
bits, one half a cupful of milk, a quarter of a pound of grated 
cheese, two teaspoonfuls of butter. Cook the macaroni in 
slightly salted boiling water for twenty minutes; drain, and 
put a layer into a greased pudding-dish ; sprinkle with cheese 
and bits of butter. Proceed in this way until the suprlies 
are exhausted. Pour in the milk, bake covered half an 
hour, and then brown. 

Fried Salsify (Oyster-plant). —Scrape the roots, and boil 
until they can be easily mashed. Work into a paste with 
two beaten eggs, a teaspoonful of butter ; pepper and salt to 
taste, and a little milk. Make into cakes. Dip in flour, 
and fry in boiling lard to a nice brown. 

Lemon Meringue Pie.— Juice and grated rind of one lemon, 
one cup of water, one table-spoonful of corn starch, one cup 
of sugar, the yelk of one egg, butter size of an egg. Boil the 
water, add the corn starch dissolved in a little water. When 
this boils, pour it over the butter and sugar, stir together. 
When cool, add egg and lemon. To make the crust, take 
one cupful of flour, two table-spoonfuls of lard or butter, 
a little salt, enough cold water to roll. Put the above mix- 
ture in this crust and bake. Make a meringue of the white 
of the egg and a little sugar. When the pie is done, spread 
this on, and return to oven to brown. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 34. 

Salmon Soup. Croutons. 

Broiled Chicken. 

Potatoes a la Parisienne. 

Parsnip Fritters. 

Rice Croquettes. Bread. 

Cocoanut Sponge, with Custard. 

Coffee. 

COST. 

Salmon soup, 17 cents; broiled chicken, 32 cents; potatoes, 
3 cents ; parsnip fritters, 5 cents ; rice croquettes, 8 cents ; 
cocoanut sponge custard, 21 cents; coffee, 4 cents; bread, 5 
cents ; butter, 5 cents. Total, $1. 



ONE HUNDRED PEIZE DINNERS. 59 



PREPARATION. 

Salmon Soup— Boil one table-spoonful of onion in one 
quart of milk for ten minutes. Remove onion and thicken 
with two table-spoonfuls of flour and one table-spoonful of 
butter, patted together. Add one half can of salmon, one 
teaspoonful of salt, and a little pepper. Put through a 
strainer, and serve. 

Croutons.— Cut stale bread in half inch slices. Eemove 
the crusts and cut into half inch cubes. Put them in a shal- 
low pan, and bake until brown. 

Broiled Chicken, — Singe the chicken, and split down the 
back and wipe with a damp cloth. Never wash it. Season 
well with salt and pepper. Take some soft butter and rub 
over the fowl, letting the greater part go on the breast and 
legs. Dredge with flour. Put in the double broiler and 
broil over a moderate fire, having the breast turned to the 
heat first. When the chicken is a nice brown, place in a 
pan and put in a moderate oven for about twelve minutes. 
Season with salt, pepper, and butter, and serve immedi- 
ately. 

Potatoes a la Parisienne. — Pare four large uncooked pota- 
toes. Cut into little balls with vegetable scrap. Drop into 
ice water. When all prepared drain them and put into fry- 
ing basket. Cook ten minutes in hot lard; the same that 
you use for coquettes will do. Drain on brown paper. Dredge 
with salt. 

Parsnip Fritters.— Wash and scrub thoroughly two good- 
sized parsnips. Put on to cook in boiling water. Cook till 
soft. Drain off water. Plunge in cold water, and remove 
skins. Mash and season to taste, with butter, salt, and 
pepper. Shape into small cakes with flour. Roll in flour, 
and fry in butter till brown. 

Rice Croquettes. — Half pint cold, boiled rice. Heat and 
moisten with a thick white sauce made as follows : Melt a 
small piece of butter ; when it bubbles, stir in smoothly half 
table-spoonful of flour ; then add half cup of milk, a little at a 
time; season with salt and pepper. Add to the rice the 
beaten yelk of one egg, two table-spoonfuls of grated cheese, 
and salt and pepper to taste. Cool, roll in crumbs and egg, 
and fry. 

Cocoanut Sponge. — Thicken one pint of milk, in which is 
dissolved three quarters of a cup of sugar, with four table- 
spoonfuls of cornstarch. Cook thoroughly in a vessel set 
into boiling water. When cooked and boiling hot, beat this 
into the whites of three eggs beaten stiff. After standing a 
few moments, add one cup of grated cocoanut. Flavor with 
vanilla and turn into mold with grated cocoanut on top. 



60 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

Custard. —One and one half cups of sweet milk, yelks of 
two eggs— two table-spoonfuls of sugar to an egg. Put the 
milk on to boil. Stir eggs and sugar together, and when the 
milk is boiling, stir the mixture into it. Flavor with va- 
nilla. 

Coffee. — Five table-spoonfuls of coffee and five cups of 
boiling water. Mix coffee, when ground with a little egg or 
a clean egg shell. Put in the pot, add a pint of the water, 
and let it boil a few moments— about five. Then add the 
remainder of water. Let it boil again. Then set where it 
will keep hot, but will not boil. Just before taking from the 
fire, add a little cold water. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 35. 

Mock Turtle Soup. 

Fried Calf Mentalities, a la Omelette. 

Jellied Meat, Cranberry Sauce. 

Sliced Pickled Tongue. 

Mashed White Potatoes. Sweet Potatoes. 

Stewed Tomatoes. Celery. 

Baked Apple Dumplings, Cream Sauce. 

Oranges. Bananas. 

Bread. Coffee. 

COST. 

Calf's head, 15 cents; two eggs, 6 cents; bread, 5 cents; 
half a pint of cranberries 3 cents'; four white, four sweet 
potatoes, 6 cents; one pint of tomatoes, 5 cents; half a 
pound of butter, 15 cents; three quarters of a pound of flour, 
3 cents ; four small apples, 3 cents ; four oranges and four 
bananas, 16 cents ; coffee, 3 cents ; half a pound of sugar, 4 
cents; pot herbs, thyme and parsely, 3 cents: celery, 5 
cents ; half a pint of milk, 2 cents ; one pint of black beans, 
5 cents ; salt and pepper, 1 cent. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

MocJc Turtle Soup.— This is prepared as follows : Put one 
pint of black beans in a pot containing one gallon of water. 
Add finely cut pot herbs and celery tops, also a little toma- 
toes. Let these boil until the beans become entirely mixed 
with the water. The liquid obtained from boiling the calf's 
head is then added and the whole brought to a boiling point 
and well stirred, after which it is strained, flavored with salt, 
pepper, Worcestershire sauce, and the indispensable "egg 
balls " added. These are made, during the time that the 
beans are boiling, in the following manner: Pound the hard 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 61 

boiled yelk of one egg, until it has become smooth. Mix 
with it the yelk of a raw egg, a little salt, and sufficient flour 
to make them bind. Roll them into little balls and boil 
them in water for twenty minutes, after which, strain off 
the water and they are ready to be placed in the soup. They 
must not be again boiled. 

Fried Veal Mentalities a la Omelette. — The calf brains, 
soaked over night in salt water, are carefully washed in 
clear water. They are then placed in a frying-pan, with 
sufficient water to cover them, and allowed to boil. When 
the water has nearly boiled away they are mashed up. The 
whites of two eggs are stirred in with them, also a little but- 
ter, salt, pepper, and pulverized thyme. The whole contents 
are then kept quickly and continuously stirred until it as- 
sumes a thick mass. It is then dished and garnished with 
parsley. 

Jellied Meat. — A calf's head must be purchased from the 
butcher the day before the dinner is to be furnished. Get 
the butcher to skin the head, extract the eyes and cut out 
the nostrils, which are thrown away ; also to cut out the 
tongue and spilt the head in half, so that the brains may be 
easily extracted. Take the brains from the head, place 
them in a bowl of salted water and set aside for future con- 
sideration. After the balance of head, including the tongue, 
has been thoroughly washed, place them in a pot of water 
(two gallons) upon the fire, and let them boil until the meat 
will easily separate from the bone. The pot is then taken 
off the fire, the meat dished, and all the bone removed from 
it, chopped up fine, seasoned with a little salt, pepper, and 
pulverized thyme. Pour it in a mold or dish, remove to the 
refrigerator or cool place, and left there until the following 
day, by which time it has become jellied meat, and can be 
turned out of the mold on a dish, garnished with parsley, 
placed on the table intact, to be sliced off as desired. The 
liquid remaining in pot is then poured into a tureen and 
placed in a cool place to be used for soup. 

Cranberry Sauce. — Place half a pint of cranberries in a 
saucepan and cover with water. Let them boil until the 
fruit commences to burst the skin or open. Then add half 
a teaspoon ful of baking-soda, and when the water turns dark 
pour it off. Afterward add a quarter of a pound of sugar, and 
keep constantly stirring until it forms a thick mass of jelly. 
Cranberries prepared in the above manner have no bitter 
taste, and jelly much quicker and better than by any other 
method. 

Pickled Tongue. — When the calf's tongue has been suffi- 
ciently boiled, as referred to above, it is removed from the 
pot, the skin entirely peeled off and then sliced up in picfcl© 



62 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

of vinegar, salt, and pepper. If agreeable a sliced onion can 
be added. 

White Mashed Potatoes.— Take four, wash, boil, mash and 
flavor as usual. 

Sweet Potatoes.— Take four, wash, bake and serve as 
usual. 

Stewed Tomatoes.— Take one pint of canned tomatoes, 
pour them into a saucepan and let them come to a boiling 
point. Add a slice of hard bread, finely grated, a little but- 
ter, pepper, and salt. 

Celery. — Wash, cut off root and place in stand. 

Baked Apple Dumplings.— Take a half pound of flour and 
rub into it a little butter, salt, and a teaspoonful of baking- 
powder. It is then mixed into dough by adding sufficient 
cold water. Roll out thin and divide into four equal parts. 
Four apples, previously pared and cored, are placed on these 
parts, and a little butter and sugar placed in each apple. 
They are then completely wrapped in the dough, placed in a 
small baking-pan, a little water placed in the bottom of the 
pan, and then baked in an oven until they are an amber 
brown in color. 

Cream Sauce. — Boil a half pint of milk and. stir in a little 
flour, a small lump of butter and two ounces of sugar. 
After boiling, a little nutmeg is grated over it. 

Coffee. — Take three quarters of a cup of very finely ground 
coffee and place in a percolating coffee-pot; on this pour 
slowly five cups of boiling water; after the water has passed 
through the strainer, pass it twice through the percolater, 
by which time the entire strength of the coffee has been ob- 
tained, and it is ready to be served in any manner desired. 
For best result it must be used as soon as made. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 36. 

Little Neck Clams, on the Half Shell. 

Black-Bean Soup. 

Broiled Chopped Steak. Creamed Potatoes. 

Scalloped Tomatoes'. Bread and Butter. 

Lettuce Salad, with French Dressing. 

Snow Pudding. Chocolate. 

COST. 

Two dozen clams, 20 cents ; three lemons, 10 cents ; sea- 
foam waters, 2 cents ; black beans, 3 cents ; half loaf bread, 
3 cents; steak, 21 cents; potatoes, 3 cents; one quart milk, 
5 cents; one pint tomatoes, six cents; lettuce, 5 cents; 
brown bread, 1 cent ; two eggs, 5 cents ; chocolate, 4 cents ; 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 63 

butter, 4 cents ; olive oil, 3 cents ; sugar, salt, pepper, vine- 
gar and old bread for tomatoes, 5 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Arrange the clams in the half shell nicely on each plate. 
Cut one lemon into quarters, place in center of each plate, 
and serve with wafers. 

Black-Bean Soup. — Take one half pint of black beans, 
soak over night in cold water. In the morning pour off the 
water and put in to boil in one quart of cold water. Add 
cold water as it boils away — about half a cup every hour. 
This checks the boiling and softens the beans. Simmer four 
or five hours. Put the beans through strainer. Put in to 
boil again. Add salt and pepper to taste. Cut one lemon 
into four slices, put into tureen, and pour the hot soup over 
them. Serve with bread. 

Broiled Chopped Steak.— Take one and a half pounds of 
round beefsteak; chop very fine (the finer the better). 
Season with salt and pepper. Mold the steak into shape to 
broil, of uniform thickness of a little less than an inch. Broil 
over hot coals four or five minutes, turning often. Spread 
with a little butter, and serve hot on a warm plate. 

Creamed Potatoes.— Take one quart of small potatoes of 
uniform size. Peel and boil, being careful that they do not 
break. Drain off every drop of water. Take less than a 
pint of milk, put on to boil ; thicken with a little corn starch 
mixed in a little cold water, a little butter and salt. Pour 
over potatoes. To make this dish look a little nicer, a scoop 
to shape potatoes can be used. 

Scalloped Tomatoes.— Take one pint of tomatoes; sprinkle 
a deep dish with fine bread crumbs; then add part of the 
tomatoes, a little butter, salt, and pepper ; another layer of 
crumbs and tomatoes; butter, salt, and pepper. Sprinkle 
crumbs over the top and bake in a quick oven. 

French Dressing. — One teaspoonful of salt, one half tea- 
spoonful of pepper; mix thoroughly. Add three table- 
spoonfuls of olive oil slowly ; then a little onion juice and 
two table-spoonfuls of vinegar. 

Snow Pudding.— Take two table-spoonfuls of corn starch. 
Mix in a little cold water. Pour on boiling water until it 
looks like starch. Then add two table-spoonfuls sugar, the 
juice of one half lemon. Add the whites of two eggs beaten 
to a stiff froth, and beat altogether throughly. Put in dish 
and set away to cool. 

Dressing. — Two thirds of a cup of sugar, one half pint 
milk. Boil together. Then add the yelks of the two eggs. 
Put the same in a shallow dish, pouring dressing around. 

Chocolate.— Take the rest of the milk left from the quart. 
Add as much water and four table-spoonfuls of chocolate, 



64 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

two of sugar and let all stand until ready to serve. Get 
milk the day before, and whipped cream, for the chocolate. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 37. 

Vegetable Soup, with Celery. 
Scalloped Oysters, in Shell. 
Fried Chicken. 

Bread and Butter. 
Potato Snow. Cauliflower, with White Sauce. 
Parsnip Croquets. 

Pickled Beets. , 
English Pudding, with Hard Sauce. 
Apples. Hickory-nuts. 
Coffee. 

COST. 

Soup bone, 5 cents; onions, parsley, carrot, and barley, 
3 cents; potatoes, 3 cents; beets, 2 cents; parsnips, 2 cents; 
cauliflower, 7 cents; chicken, 30 cents; oysters, 8 cents; 
bread, 4 cents; butter, 6 cents; coffee, 4 cents; celery, 5 
cents; hickory-nuts, 8 cents; apples, 4 cents; currants, 3 
cents; raisins, 3 cents; citron, 2 cents; spice, 1 cent. 
Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Vegetable Soup.— Procure from your butcher a small 
bone with enough meat attached to flavor and enrich the 
soup. Put it on to boil in three quarts of cold water early 
in the morning. Allow it to boil until very tender and the 
meat is free from the bone. Prepare the vegetables, scrape, 
slice in any form you please, and put into a saucepan a pint 
of water and also a table-spoonful of barley. Boil all well 
together until tender. Set it back, and then strain the 
stock through a coarse sieve. There should be about three 
pints of stock. Put it back in same pot, and then season 
with pepper and salt to taste. Then pour in the vegetables, 
and after boiling up all together again it is ready to be 
served, first laying in the soup-tureen a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley. 

Scalloped Oysters in Shell— Secure eight nice oysters 
with the juice. Strain, and crumble two slices of bread 
very fine, and place in a vessel with the strained juice of the 
oysters. Add enough milk to soak, then a pinch of salt and 
a sprinkle of pepper. Have on hand four deep and good- 
sized oyster shells ; clean and wipe them dry, and butter 
thoroughly the hollow parts. Then lay at the bottom a 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 65 

layer of bread crumbs, a lump of butter, size of a three-cent 
piece, a dash of pepper, then two oysters; lastly, another 
layer of crumbs, butter, and little pepper on top. Place 
them in shallow pan to catch any juice that may be lost. 
Put them in a hot oven to brown nicely, and then serve hot 
on a large dish. Garnish with celery leaves. 

Fried Chicken. — To prepare the chicken, dress and wash 
thoroughly, cut up the usual way, put it on in boiling water 
to cover it, and boil until tender ; then remove from the 
vessel, allowing the gravy to remain in the pot; drain, and 
roll in flour, season with salt and pepper, and place in a hot 
frying-pan a lump of butter, into which you put the chicken, 
frying it to a nice brown and turning it orten. Have the 
flat dish in the oven to keep warm to receive the chicken 
when done. To make the gravy, use the liquid that the 
chicken was boiled in; put it in the frying-pan after the 
fowl is done, and thicken with a table-spoonful of flour, and 
season with pepper and salt ; pour a little over the chicken 
and put the rest in a gravy bowl. Garnish with celery 
leaves. 

Potato Snow.— Feel, and boil four large potatoes until 
mealy. Drain them dry, and season with salt and pepper 
to taste, a table-spoonful of butter, and half a cup of milk. 
Mash and beat well with a fork until very light. Sprinkle 
a little pepper on top before serving. 

Cauliflower, with White Sauce. — Wash and pick over 
the cauliflower, and put it on in boiling water enough to 
cover. Boil until soft and tender. Have a sauce ready on 
the stove, of half a cup of milk boiled, a table-spoonful of 
butter, a pinch of salt, and a table-spoonful of flour. Boil 
up five minutes. Pour over the cauliflower when dished 
up or not, as you fancy. 

ParsnijJ Croquets. —Scrape and wash four nice parsnips. 
Cut them in oblong slices and place them in boiling water, 
and boil until tender. When done, mash and salt to taste, 
with a table spoonful of butter. Make them in oval balls 
the size of an egg and half an inch thick. Fry in a little 
butter, to a nice brown, and serve hot. 

Pickled Beets. — Wash and put on to boil, two beets, early 
in the morning; they must be of good size. When done, 
slice, and, while hot, pour cold vinegar over them, and set 
aside until dinner is served. 

Celery. — Wash and look over the celery and drain, put in 
a cool place ; arrange on any fancy dish to suit. 

English Pudding, with Hard Sauce. — Take one teacupful 
of beef suet, half a cup of molasses, two cups of flour, one 
and a half cup of milk; one teaspoonful of salt, one tea- 
spoonful of cloves, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one tea- 



66 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

spoonful of saleratus, one cup of raisins, one cup of currants, 
and a small piece of citron. Boil three hours in a pudding- 
tin or tie in a bag, leaving room to swell. Put in the salera- 
tus the last thing after stirring the other ingredients well. 
The water must be boiling when the pudding is placed in 
the pot, and add hot water as it boils away. 

Hard Sauce for Pudding. — Take a small cup of white 
sugar and one table-spoonful of butter, half a teaspoonful 
of vanilla or any extract you wish, one table-spoonful of 
hot water. Beat until it is very light and smooth. Put it 
on a small fancy dish and serve with the hot pudding. 

Apples and Hickory -nuts. — Wipe the apples with a damp 
cloth, and serve in separate dishes, and garnish with celery 
leaves. 

Coffee.-— Moisten five table-spoonfuls of coffee in a little of 
the white of an egg, with the shell and half cupful of water. 
Pour over it five medium-sized cupfuls of boiling water, stir- 
ring it slowly. Let it boil up hard for three minutes. Set 
it back a moment to settle, before serving. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 38. 

Split-pea Soup, with Croutons. 

Braised Beef. 

Mashed potatoes. Scalloped Onions. 

Sweet Potato Croquets. 

Cold-slaw. 

Fruit Tapioca. 

Coffee. 

COST. 

Soup with croutons, 5 cents ; beef, 40 cents ; mashed pota- 
toes, 5 cents; scalloped onions, 8 cents; sweet potato cro- 
quets, 10 cents ; cold-slaw, 8 cents ; pudding, 12 cents ; coffee, 
10 cents; bread, 2 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Pea Soup. — Soak one cupful of split peas in cold water 
over night; put them on to boil with three pints of cold 
water; simmer till soft; mash through a puree strainer and 
put on to boil again ; melt a table-spoonful of butter ; add 
one table-spoonful of flour; stir rapidly and then stir into 
the soup; boil five minutes; add one table-spoonful of salt, 
and half a saltspoonful of white pepper. 

Croutons. — Cut five slices of stale bread half of an inch 
thick into half-inch cubes^ brown on a shallow pan in a hot 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 61 

oven ; save the crusts and crumbs and dry them in the oven 
for the scalloped onions. 

Braised Beef.— Trim and rub well with salt, pepper, and 
flour, a cubical piece of beef weighing three pounds and a 
half from the lower part of the round ; cut two small onions 
into dice and fry them in dripping until light brown; skim 
them out into a braising-pan on a trivet, with the onions 
around it; add one quart of boiling water and one table- 
spoonful of mixed herbs, which should be tied in a small 
piece of strained cloth ; cover closely, putting a brick on the 
cover to keep it down, and cook in a moderate oven four 
hours, basting every twenty minutes; turn over in two 
hours ; add more water if needed, so as to have one pint for 
gravy; when tender, take up the meat and remove the bag 
of herbs and the fat from the gravy ; thicken with two table- 
spoonfuls of flour wet in a little cold water, and add salt and 
pepper to taste ; cook five minutes and pour over the meat. 

Mashed Potatoes. —Boil seven or eight potatoes till tender. 
Drain and mash. Add one table-spoonful of butter, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, and enough hot milk to moisten (about one 
third of a cup). Beat with a fork till creamy. Pile lightly 
on a hot dish. 

Scalloped Onions.— Boil six large onions. Make a sauce 
out of one table-spoonful of butter, one table-spoonful of 
flour, one cup of milk, half of a teaspoonful of salt, and a 
speck of pepper. Put the onions into a shallow baking-dish. 
Pour the sauce over them. Cover with buttered crumbs and 
bake till crumbs are brown. 

Sweet Potato Croquets. — Boil and mash five sweet pota- 
toes. Add one table-spoonful of butter, salt, and pepper, 
two table-spoonfuls of milk. Roll lightly into shape ; roll in 
crumbs, beaten egg, and crumbs again, and fry in hot fat. 

Cold-slaw. — Mix half a teaspoonful of mustard, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, and one table-spoonful of sugar together; 
beat one egg; add three quarters of a cup of milk, a quarter 
of a cup of hot vinegar, one table-spoonful of oil, and the 
seasoning. Cook in a double boiler until it thickens like soft 
custard. Pour it over two cups of shaved white cabbage 
and set away to cool. 

Fruit Tapioca.— Pick; over and wash three quarters of a 
cupful of pearl tapioca. Put it in the double boiler with a pint 
and a half of boiling water. Cook till soft and transparent, 
stirring often, iidd one saltspoonful of salt, a quarter of a 
cup of sugar, one good sized banana, and one large, juicy, 
sweet orange cut in thin slices. Serve very cold with 
cream. 

Coffee.— Put four table-spoonfuls of coffee into the coffee- 
pot with a clean egg shell. Add four cups of boiling water, 



68 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

Boil five minutes. Add half a cup of cold water. Pour out 
a little and pour it back. Place the coffee-pot where it will 
keep hot, but not boil. 



BILL OF FAEE NO. 39. 

Ox-tail Soup. 

Fried Herring. Anchovy Sauce. 

Potato Eissoles. 

Roast Pork, Stuffed. Apple Sauce. 

Rabbit Pie. Red Currant Jelly. 

Potato Snow. White Beans. Celery. 

Rolls. 

Polish Tartlets. Ice Cream. 

Coffee. ■ 

COST. 

Ox tail, 5 cents ; rabbit, 10 cents ; beans, 4 cents ; eggs, 6 
cents; seasoning, 1 cent; herring, 5 cents; pork, 13 cents; 
celery, 4 cents; cream, 6 cents; lard, three cents; anchovy 
sauce, 3 cents ; apples, 2 cents ; rolls, 4 cents ; coffee, 4 cents ; 
butter, 4 cents; bacon, 4 cents; potatoes, 4 cents; milk 6, 
cents; sugar, 6 cents; flour, 3 cents; jelly, 3 cents. Total, 
$1. 

PREPARATION. 

Ox-tail Soup.— Order from your butcher, a few days be- 
fore wanted, a beef tail. Have jointed in the proper joints. 
Wash well in salted water. Then put it in stewpan with 
three pints of water, one onion, one quarter of a carrot, one 
quarter of a turnip, discolored tops of celery; cut all up; 
few sprigs of savory, thyme, marjoram, one slice of bacon 
or ham trimmings, salt, and pepper. Stew slowly three or 
four hours the day before it is wanted. The next morning 
take off the fat settled on top, warm, strain ; keep hot till 
wanted. Serve with finger of toast. If wanted thicker, 
thicken with little flour, and flavor with a teaspoonful of 
mushroom catsup. 

Fried Herring. — Having scalded a fresh herring, place it in 
salted water a few minutes, then cut through the backbone 
lengthwise and then across, to make four even pieces. Wipe 
perfectly dry. Take one half egg. Cover each piece, using 
a little brush. Dip in finely powdered bread crumbs, pre- 
viously baked light brown, and slightly salted. The trim- 
mings from the pork, melted, will fry this. Have the fat 
piping hot. 

Anchovy Sauce. — A dessert-spoonful of flour mixed 
smoothly with about a cupful of milk and water. Add a 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 69 

pinch of butter and salt. Stir well till cooked and add half a 
teaspoonful of anchovy ketchup or sauce. Serve with fish. 

Potato Rissoles.— -Three potatoes cooked, in salted water; 
then mash with a pinch of butter, salt, and a teaspoonful of 
milk. Form with hand into four balls. Dip in other half 
of egg and bread crumbs. Fry till brown all over in hot 
lard. Drain in blotting-paper. 

Rabbit Pie.— Skin and remove all inside, and wash in salted 
water. Cut in quarters and put into cold water enough to 
cover with two slices (cut up) of bacon, sprigs of majoram, 
par 4ey, thyme, and a pinch of salt and pepper. Stew slowly 
while you make the crust. Take a quarter pound of lard 
and six ounces of flour, and a pinch of salt. Mix thoroughly 
and moisten with water enough not to stick when rolled out. 
Take part and roll out quite thin to line the sides of an 
earthenware dish. Then put your partially cooked* rabbit 
and bacon in and pour in all the liquor your dish holds, and 
mince one small onion. Roll your pastry out again to the 
size of a pie-dish. Make three incisions, and cover. Cook 
rather slowly for about an hour. 

Roast Pork, Staffed. — Take one pound of loin of pork in 
one piece. Have your butcher first joint it in four places to 
make it easy to carve. Stuffing— One onion minced finely, 
half a teaspoonful of sage powdered well; cup of finely 
crumbled stale bread crumbs; salt and pepper. Mix well 
together, and insert into the pork ; tie with a string to keep 
in place, and cook one hour. 

Apple Sauce.— Use three or four apples with a table- 
spoonful of sugar. When done beat, well with fork ; no fla- 
voring. If very dry apples, use a little water. 

Potato Snow.— After boiling four potatoes in salted water 
drain dry. Then rub through a coarse sieve and do not 
again disturb them. 

White Beans. — Four cents' worth of dried beans from gro- 
cer. Soak over night, then put in cold salted water and 
cook very slowly for two or three hours. When perfectly 
tender, drain off the water, add a little piece of butter, shake 
two or three minutes ; stand on back of stove, with cover 
partially off, to get floury. 

Polish Tartletts.—Bia-ve ready some little patty pans 
greased, also one egg beaten, three quarters of a cupful of 
milk. Sweeten, and stir well. Then take a quarter of a 
pound of lard and a quarter of a pound of flour. Mix flour 
with pinch of salt and moisten with very little water. Roll 
out thin. Take a quarter of the lard and spread. Sprinkle 
slightly with flour; roll up and out again four times, using 
lard and flour each time. Line your patty pans and pour a 
little milk and egg mixture, Bake very quickly. When 



VO ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

taken from oven, with a brush, glace with half of the white 
of a beaten egg and place tiny piece of bright jelly in each. 
Be very speedy in making these. 

Ice Cream.— Halt pint of cream, one pint of milk, white 
of one egg; sweeten well; add a teaspoonful of vanilla; mix 
well, and put in your freezer, and freeze for fifteen or twenty 
minutes. 

Coffee. — Put five table-spoonfuls of good coffee in your pot, 
and pour over four large cupfuls of boiling water, and stand 
back of stove to simmer. A French coffee-pot is the best, 
and then you pour the water over twice and do not simmer. 
Serve with scalded milk. 



BILL OF FAEE NO. 40. 

Oysters (on the deep shell), with Quartered 

Lemon. 

Bouillon, with Squares of Toast. 

Baked Fresh Mackerel. Fig Fritters. 

Roast Chicken, with Cranberry Jelly. 

Bread. 

Potato Puffs. Parsnip Balls. Shaved Celery. 

Or?nge Meringue Pudding. 

Coffee. 

COST. 

Oystprsand lemon, 10 cents; mackerel, 10 cents; fig frit- 
ters, 5 cents; chicken, 35 cents; cranberries, 5 cents; pota- 
toes, 2 cents; parsnips, 5 cents; celery, 3 cents; pudding, 10 
cents; coffee, 4 cents; bread, butter, seasoning, etc., 6 cents; 
oysters, 6 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Bouillon.— Boil one pound shank beef in one quart of 
water for one hour, season with salt, pepper, and herbs. 
Put m one finely chopped onion, a table-spoonful of chopped 
parsley. Boil half hour longer, then strain into the soup- 
tureen, and serve with two slices of bread cut into squares 
and well browned in a quick oven. 

Maclcerel.— Take one small mackerel; clean it thoroughly, 
and spilt; dredge well with salt, pepper, and flour; place in a 
dripping-pan ; cover the bottom of the pan with hot water, 
put bits of butter on the fish, and bake in a hot oven for one 
half hour. Baste often. Serve with cream sauce, made by 
stirring a table-spoonful of flour in the dripping-pan, after 
removing the fish, until it becomes the consistency of cream. 
Season to taste. 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 71 

Fig Fritters.— Make a batter of one pint of flour, half pinfc 
of water, one egg, teaspoonful of butter, and a pinch of salt. 
Beat the egg light. Add the water and salt. Pour half of 
this mixture on the flour, and, when beaten light, add the 
remainder with the butter. Chop two figs and stir in the 
batter with a spoonful of sugar. Fry in boiling fat, sprinkle 
with sugar, and serve on a hot dish. 

Chicken.— Clean and stuff the breast and part of the body 
with dressing made as follows : Take a pint of bread crumbs ; 
add a teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley, a pinch of sweet marjoram, a heaping 
table-spoonful of butter, and mix well together. Dredge the 
fowl with salt and pepper; rub well with soft butter. Dredge 
with flour, and place on a pan in a hot oven for a few mo- 
ments. Then put in enough water to cover the bottom of 
the pan. Baste every fifteen minutes. When one side is 
browned, turn and brown the other. The last basting should 
be done with soft butter, and the breast should be dredged 
with flour. The water in the pan must be frequently re- 
newed. Roast for one hour. Serve with giblet gravy made 
according to the usual recipe. 

Cranberry Jelly.— Boil half a pint of cranberries in half a 
pint of water until soft. Strain and add half a cupful of 
sugar. Boil again, and take off and pour into a dish to cool. 
Serve when hardened. 

Potato Puffs.— Boil and mash three potatoes; add a table- 
spoonful of milk, a little butter, and salt; shape into balls. 
Butter a pan, place the balls in it, brush over with beaten 
egg, brown in the oven. When done, slide them on a hot 
platt:r. Garnish with parsley and serve at once. 

Parsnip Balls. — Boil one parsnip until tender; mash and 
add a table spoonful of butter, teaspoonful of salt, table- 
spoonful of milk, one beaten egg. Mix all the ingredients 
except the egg; stir on the fire until the mixture bubbles, 
then add the egg, and cool ; make into balls, roll in bread 
crumbs, and fry until brown. 

Orange Meringue Pudding. — Peel and slice two oranges 
and lay them in a pudding dish; sprinkle with sugar; make 
a custard of one half pint of milk, the yelks of two eggs, one 
fourth cupful of sugar, and one teaspoonful of corn starch. 
When cold, pour it over the oranges. Beat the whites of 
the eggs into a stiff froth, add one third cupful pulverized 
sugar, pour on the custard, and put in an oven for a few mo- 
ments to brown. 

Coffee.— As usually made. 



72 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

BILL OF FARE NO. 41. 

Bisque of Beef Soup. 

Broiled White-fish. 

Scalloped Chicken. French Pancakes. 

Stewed Celery, with Cream. 

Potato Balls. Macaroni, Brown Sauce. 

Potato Salad, with Parsley. 

Lemon Cream Pie. 

Coffee. 

COST. 

Rice, 5 cents ; tomato, onion, beet, 2 cents ; pint and a half 
of milk, 6 cents ; white-fish, 8 cents ; bread, 5 cents ; chicken, 
30 cents ; butter, 4 cents ; six eggs, 12 cents ; sugar, 4 cents ; 
jelly, 6 cents ; celerj^, 3 cents ; potatoes, 3 cents ; macaroni, 
4 cents ; coffee, 2 cents ; corn starch, 1 cent ; beef, 5 cents ; 
parsley, 1 cent ; lemon, 2 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Bisque of Beef Soup. — Use a pound of beef (have the 
butcher cut it in small pieces), a quart and a half of cold 
water, half a pint of milk, a quarter of a cupful of rice, half 
a cupful of strained tomato, half a teaspoonful salt, a little 
pepper. Put the meat and bone iato the soup-pot with the 
cold water, and heat slowly to the boiling-point; then skim 
the liquor carefully, and set the soup-pot back where its con- 
tents will only simmer during the next three hours. At the 
end of that time, strain the liquor and free it of fat; then re- 
turn to soup-pot. Wash the rice thoroughly, and, after add- 
ing it to the bisque, cook for half an hour ; then put in the 
milk and seasoning, and boil up once. The addition of the 
tomato completes the work. 

Broiled White-fish. — Wash quickly in cold water and then 
wipe dry. Eub the bars of a double broiler lightly with but- 
ter, and then place the fish in it. Dredge with salt, pepper, 
and flour. Place over a clear but not fierce fire, having the 
inside turned to the fire first. Watch carefully and turn 
often, to prevent burning. 

Scalloped Chicken. — Free the chicken from the skin, bone, 
and fat, and chop it rather coarse. To one pint of the meat 
add a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper and one teaspoonful 
of salt. A gravy is next to be made, by this rule: Put a 
table-spoonful of butter into a small frying-pan, and when 
it is hot add a generous teaspoonful of flour; stir until the 
mixture becomes browned, and then gradually add a cupful 
of cold water ; let the gravy boilt hree minutes, and season it 
with salt and pepper. Put alternate layers of gravy and 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. IS 

chicken into an scalloped dish, having three of gravy and 
two of meat. Cover lightly with grated bread crumbs and 
cook in the oven for twenty minutes. 

French Pancakes. —Beat six eggs very light, and add a 
half pint of milk. Pour a third of this mixture on a half 
cupful of flour, and beat until smooth and light. Then add 
remainder of milk, half teaspoonful of salt, a heaping tea- 
spoonful of sugar, and melted butter. Heat and butter an 
omelet-pan. Pour into it a thin layer of the mixture. 
When brown on one side, turn and brown on the other. 
Cover with thin layer of jelly and roll up. 

Stewed Celery, with Cream. — Wash the celery, and cut in- 
to half-inch cubes, and let stand in cold water for fifteen 
minutes. Then put into stewpan with two quarts of boil- 
ing water, and let it boil for twenty minutes ; then drain care- 
fully in colander. For the cream : Put half a pint of milk on 
the fire to boil; mix half a cupful of milk with two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, and stir into boiling milk ; after all boil 
up, add one table-spoonful of butter and half a one of salt. 
Pour on celery. 

Potato Balls. — With a vegetable scoop, cut a quart of balls 
out of raw potatoes and put into cold water. A quarter of 
an hour before serving time, put them into a saucepan with 
boiling water enough to cover, and cook for twelve minutes. 
After pouring off all the water, dredge with salt and little 
pepper, and pour upon it a little melted butter. 

Macaroni Brown Sauce. — Boil a quarter of a pound of 
macaroni for half an hour with one table spoonful of salt, 
one table-spoonful of pepper, and two quarts of water. 
While boiling, make sauce in following manner: Put a table- 
spoonful of butter on the stove in a frying-pan. and when it 
becomes hot add a level table-spoonful of flour. Stir until 
smooth and brown ; then gradually add a half cupful of water 
and a half cupful of tomato, stir the sauce till it boils : then 
simmer for five minutes. Season with a half teaspoonful of 
salt and a little pepper. Put half the macaroni into an 
scalloped dish, and pour on half the sauce ; then put in the 
rest of the macaroni and the remainder of the sauce. 
Sprinkle with bread crumbs. Set the dish in a rather hot 
oven, and cook for a quarter of an hour. 

Potato Salad. — Boil three potatoes; when done, after 
cooling, cut into small pieces. Add to them half a teaspoon- 
ful of chopped parsley. Pour over this a dressing made of 
the yelk of an egg, a teaspoonful of sugar, half a teaspoon- 
ful of vinegar, half a teaspoonful of mustard, a teaspoonful 
of onion juice and a fourth of a cup of milk. 

Lemon Cream Pie. — Make the crust by rubbing a table- 
spoonful of butter into three table-spoonfuls of flour, adding 



V4 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

cold water enough to make a smooth, stiff paste, and then 
rolling very thin. For the filling, mix a table-spoonful and 
a half of corn starch with four table-spoonfuls of water. 
Pour a scant cupful of water into a saucepan with the rind 
of a lemon and the juice of two lemons and a cupful of sugar; 
heat to the boiling-point; then stir the corn starch into the 
boiling mixture, and cook for two minutes. Stir ateaspoon- 
ful of butter into the mixture, and set away to cool. When 
cool, add the yelks of three eggs, well beaten; pour the mix- 
ture into a large, deep plate that has been lined with the 
paste, and bake in a moderate oven for thirty-five minutes. 
Make a meringue by beating the white of the eggs to a stiff, 
dry froth, and gradually beat into it four table-spoonfuls of 
sugar. At the end of the thirty-five minutes, cover the pie 
with the meringue, and bake with the oven door open for 
ten minutes longer. Serve cold. 

Coffee. — Put one small cupful of ground coffee into a coffee- 
pot. Mix with it the shell of an egg and three table-spoon- 
fuls of cold water. Stir until it boils; then set back where 
it will bubble for ten minutes. Pour a little of the coffee in- 
to a cup, and return to the pot. Do this several times. 
Place the coffee-pot where it will keep hot, but not bubble 
any more, for five minutes; then strain into a hot coffee-pot. 



BILL OF FAEE NO. 42. 

Chicken Soup. 

Boiled Haddock, with Parsley. 

Roast Chicken. Celery. 

Baked Potatoes. Fried Parsnips. 

Chicken Salad. 

Steamed Pudding, Spiced Sauce. 

Bread, Butter, Coffee. 

COST. 

Chicken, 36 cents; soup, milk, and flour, 2 cents; fish, 15 
cents; parsley, 1 cent; potatoes, 3 cents; lettuce, 2 cents; 
celery, 10 cents; parsnips, etc., 3 cents; salad dressing, 5 
cents; pudding, 7 cents; sauce, 6 cents ; bread, butter, coffee, 
10 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Chicken Sfcmp.— Take one pair of chickens; split down the 
back ; wash them and cut off the necks ; put all in a porcelain 
pot, with liver, etc.; boil slowly one hour; during the last 
half hour, put in half a lemon and one spoonful of salt. 
Put one chicken in a covered dish with a cup of liquor, 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 75 

Skin the other and cut up for salad. Take out the lemons. 
Peel one large potato, cut in slices into the soup. Mix two 
table-spoonfuls flour with cold water, and thicken soup ; put 
one cupful milk in soup-tureen; strain soup through colan- 
der ; put in hearts and livers, and any pieces of potatoes. 

Fish.— Wash the fish, wrap in a clean cloth, and boil. 
When done, take it from the boiler, and score it; then 
spread with butter on a hot platter. Garnish with parsley. 

Roast Chicken.— Put the chicken from the covered dish, 
with the cup of liquor, into roasting pan, dust flour over it, 
and brown in the oven. Garnish with parsley. 

Wash parsley, lettuce, and celery; leave all in cold water 
until needed for the table. 

Wash six potatoes, and bake. When done, burst them 
and cover with a napkin. 

Fried Parsnips.— Scrape two parsnips, cut in round slices, 
boil very tender, drain in colander, and sprinkle with sugar ; 
then fry a delicate brown. 

Chicken Salad.— Take the outside white of celery, chop 
fine, mix chicken with it (I do not cut chicken very fine), 
stir in one half of dressing — with a fork is best. Place out- 
side leaves of lettuce in salad dish, put salad in, and smooth 
over the top the other half of the dressing. Garnish with 
center leaves of lettuce and a few white tops of celery. 

Dressing. — Put white of one egg on a plate, yelk in a bowl 
with one table-spoonful of condensed milk ; beat. Use one 
half cupful of sweet milk, put part in milk-boiler and one 
half table-spoonful corn starch in the cup; stir, and mix with 
yelk; then stir into boiling milk. Pour this into bowl to 
cool. Put into a cup one half teaspoonful of salt, one half 
of pepper, one of made mustard ; stir in, drop by drop, one 
half table-spoonful of olive oil, then two tabie-spoonfuls of 
vinegar. Beat the egg white, and stir into cool mixture; 
then stir in the mustard mixture, and set aside in cold place. 

Pudding. — Chop two ounces of suet— to make one half 
cupful. Mix into it one half cupful of molasses, one half 
teaspoonful salt; cloves, cinnamon, allspice to make a tea- 
spoonful. Dissolve one half teaspoonful soda into one half 
cupful of sweet milk; add this and one and one half cupfuls 
of flour. Don't use prepared flour. Pour into greased pud- 
ding-tin and steam two hours. 

Pudding Sauce.— One table-spoonful butter, one of flour, 
two of sugar; stir together in boiler and pour on boiling 
water to properly thin; add same quantity of spice as in 
pudding, and salt to taste. 

Coffee. —Mocha, Java, and Rio, equal parts ; take three 
table-spoonfuls; put it into a filtering coffee-pot; pour on 
enough boiling water and keep it to the boiling-point, do not 



V6 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE IttTSNERS. 

boil. Pour a cupful out and return it to the pot. Serve in 
after dinner-cups, with loaf sugar but no cream. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 43. 

Vegetable Soup. 

Roast Beef. Yorkshire Pudding 

Frauconia Potatoes. Scalloped Tomatoes. 

Creamed Macaroni. 

Rolls. Home-made Pickles. 

Spice Pudding, with Creamy Sauce. 

Apples. Coffee. 

COST. 

Soup bone, 6 cents; vegetables for soup, 2 cents; three 
pounds of beef, 42 cents ; milk and egg for Yorkshire pud- 
ding, 5 cents; four potatoes, 2 cents; one half can tomatoes, 
6 cents; four rolls, 3 cents; one quarter pound macaroni, 3 
cents ; milk, butter, and cheese, 7 cents ; material for pudding, 
9 cents ; material for sauce, 6 cents ; coffee, 4 cents ; apples, 3 
cents ; pickles, 2 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Vegetable Soup. —Purchase a soup bone with some meat 
on it. Have the bone well cracked. Wipe it with a clean, 
damp cloth; place in a kettle and cover with three quarts 
of cold water and one teaspoonful of salt. Let it stand on 
the back of the stove, where it will be at least one hour 
coming to a boil; simmer very slowly for six hours; keep it 
closely covered; strain, and set away in a cold place. Clean 
and scrape half a small carrot, half a small turnip, half a 
small onion, cut all in dice ; add one teaspoonful of minced 
parsley, a table-spoonful of barley, and a teaspoonful of salt; 
cover with cold water, and cook until all are tender. Take 
the stock, which by this time should be cold, and remove 
every bit of the fat. Scrain and put back on the stove, and 
season to taste ; let it come to a boil, add the cooked vege- 
tables, let it boil up once, and serve. 

Boast Beef.— Three pounds of meat from the cross rib. 
This piece of meat is tender and juicy, and of fine flavor. 
There is no waste. As it has not much fat, ask your butcher 
for a piece of suet. Wipe with a clean, damp cloth, and 
season with salt and pepper, and dredge with flour. Put 
bits of suet over the top and cook in a very hot oven forty 
minutes, basting often with the ho if at. Db not put water 
in the pan, as we have then only the temperature of boiling 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 11 

water, and a much higher temperature is required in roast- 
ing meat. To make a brown gravy, remove the meat to a 
hot platter, pour off all the fat from the pan, and pour in one 
half cupful of boiling water, season and thicken with a tea- 
spoonful of flour mixed to a smooth paste with a little cold 
water ; boil five minutes, strain, and serve. 

Yorkshire Pudding. —Three quarters cupful of milk, one 
egg, one quarter of a cupful of flour, a pinch of salt. Beat the 
egg until light-colored and thick ; add to it the milk. Lift the 
flour and salt, and add enough of the egg mixture to make 
a stiff paste. Be sure that all the lumps are out while it is 
in this thick state ; then add the rest of the mixture and 
beat until smooth. Pour in a brick-shaped pan and bake 
one half hour in a hot oven. Cut in squares and serve with 
the roast beef on a hot plate. This pudding is sometimes 
baked in the pan with the beef ; but is much more whole- 
some, delicate, and quite as often servde baked by itself. 

Franconia Potatoes. — Wash and pare four medium-sized 
potatoes. Cook them twenty minutes in boiling salted 
water ; drain, and, twenty-five minutes before the beef is 
done, put them in the pan to brown, and baste often with 
the hot dripping. 

Scalloped Tomatoes.— One half can of tomatoes, a little 
salt, pepper, and bread crumbs. Put in a buttered baking- 
dish a layer of bread crumbs seasoned with salt, pepper, and 
bits of butter, then a layer of tomatoes, then a layer of 
crumbs, etc., until all the tomatoes are used, finishing with 
crumbs. Bake one hour in hot oven. 

dreamed Macaroni. — Break one fourth of a pound of 
macaroni in small pieces and put it into three pints of boil- 
ing salted water. Boil gently for half an hour. Throw it 
in a colander and pour cold water through it to keep it from 
sticking. Put in a baking-dish and sift through it one half 
cupful of grated parmesan or some dry cheese, and cover 
with a white sauce, made with one table-spoonful of butter, 
one even tables poonful of flour, one cup of hot milk, one 
half teaspoonful of salt. Melt the butter, and when bub- 
bling add dry flour ; stir until smooth, and add milk, stirring 
all the while : when smooth and creamy, pour over the maca- 
roni; sprinkle cheese on top and bake in hot oven until 
brown— about twenty minutes. 

Spice Pudding.— One pint of bread crumbs, one pint of 
milk, one egg, one cup of raisins seeded and cut in half, one 
teaspoonful of cinnamon, a little allspice, cloves, and nut- 
meg, quarter cup of sugar, one teaspoonful butter melted, 
and a pinch of salt. Beat the egg light, add the sugar, 
then the milk, and pour over the bread crumbs. Then 



Y8 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

add the spice and raisins, stir well, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven until firm. Serve with creamy sauce. 

Creamy Sauce.— One table-spoonful of butter, three heap- 
ing table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, one table-spoonful of 
milk, half a teaspoonful of vanilla. Cream the butter, add 
the sugar gradually, beating all the time. Whep very light, 
add the milk, a little at a time. ust before serving, stand 
the bowl containing the sauce in a pan of hot water for a 
few seconds, beating hard. It should be light and frothy. 

Coffee.— According to common recipe. 



BILL OF FAEE NO. 44. 

Oysters (on the half shell). 

Consomme, with Macaroni. 

Fried Flounders, with Tomato Sauce. 

Timbale of Beef. Brown Sauce. 

Potato Souffle. Corn Fritters. 

Imitation Pates de Foies Gras. 

Pickled Salmon, with Tartare Sauce. 

"Wine Custard. Vanilla Wafers. 

Coffee. 

COST. 

Twenty oysters, 20 cents ; soup bone with meat, 5 cents ; 
macaroni, etc., 1 cent; fish, 10 cents; sauce, 2 cents; beef, 
10 cents; seasoning, 3 cents; brown sauce, 2 cents; bread, 3 
cents; potato souffle, 3 cents; one half can corn, 5 cents; 
egg, 2 cents; seasoning, 1 cent; pates, 3 cents; one half can 
salmon, 8 cents; tartare sauce, 4 cents; custard, 5 cents; 
wafers, 5 cents; coffee, 3 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Directions for serving the oysters need not be repeated. 

Consomme Macaroni. — Put the soup bone and three pints 
of cold water, where it will heat gradually. When it first 
boils, take off every particle of scum, and add a slice of 
onion, a clove, and a little salt and pepper. Simmer slowly 
five or six hours; then strain, cool, and take off every bit of 
grease. One half hour before serving, heat to boiling point, 
taste to see if seasoned enough, and add a few sticks oi 
macaroni broken in inch lengths, and previously boiled ten- 
der in salted water. The amount of water should be reduced 
to about one quart. 

Fried Flounders.— Skin the fish, then cut straight down 
the back, and with the point of a sharp knife, carefully push 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 19 

the meat from the bone half way to the opposite edge; pro- 
ceed the same way with the other half. Remove the bone, 
cut off the fins, wash, and wipe dry. Sprinkle the pieces 
with salt, dip hi milk, roll in flour, and fry in boiling lard. 

Tomato Sauce.— Two thirds of a cup of canned tomato, 
one third cup of water, a small slice of onion, and two cloves. 
Boil together for five or ten minutes, season with a little 
salt, and a teaspoonful of butter ; strain, and thicken with a 
teaspoonful of flour wet with a little water; pour around 
the fish. 

Timbale of Beef .— Chop fine about one pint of cold beef, 
free from fat and gristle ; add to it one half cup of fine bread 
crumbs, salt, and pepper, and one half teaspoonful of onion 
juice (obtained by rubbing an onion on a grater) ; heat two 
thirds of a cupful of stock or milk, and melt in it one table - 
spoonful of butter; then add it to the meat, and a well 
beaten egg. Mix thoroughly, and put in a well greased 
mold or bowl, and set in a pan of hot water; cover with a 
greased paper, and bake about one hour in a moderate oven. 
Turn out on a hot platter, and pour brown sauce around it. 

Brown Sauce* — Heat a table-spoonful of butter in a small 
frying pan, and when it begins to turn brown, add to it a 
table-spoonful of flour; stir till the mixture is dark brown, 
then gradually add to it one cup of stock or milk. Season 
with a little salt, and pepper, and a teaspoonful of Worces- 
tershire sauce or catsup. 

Potato Souffle. — Mash and season as usual, but take care 
not to use too much milk. Then beat with a fork till light, 
and turn carefully into a hot dish. Don't press or pack 
it, but keep as loose and light as possible. 

Corn Fritters. — Beat an egg light, and add to it one half 
cup milk. Pour this mixture upon one cup of flour, and 
beat well; then add one teaspoonful of salt, one fourth tea- 
spoonful of pepper, and a table- spoonful of salad oil or melted 
butter. Mix thoroughly, and add one half can of corn. 
Drop by spoonfuls into boiling lard, and cook about three 
minutes. Serve very hot. 

Imitation Pates de Foies Gr as.— Boil a calf's liver till 
very tender, in slightly salted water. When cold, cut into 
small pieces, and pound to a smooth paste. Cut into slices 
an onion, and fry a golden brown in three table-spoonfuls of 
butter. Then press as much of the liquid as you can through 
a strainer upon the liver, add salt and pepper to taste, a 
little grated nutmeg, and ground cloves, and a teaspoonful 
each of made mustard, and Worcestershire sauce. If it 
does not seem moist enough, add a table-spoonful of boiling 
water. Mix very thoroughly, and pack in cups or small 
jars, covering the tops with a little melted butter. If kept 



80 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

in a cool place, it will be good for months, and is delicious 
for sandwiches, etc. I have given this recipe more to ben- 
efit the housewives who are now studying the dinner de- 
partment, than for its value as a part of my dinner, for I 
cannot gauge the cost as accurately as I wish. Here in the 
country the liver is given away to customers in turn, con- 
sequently with us it is a very cheap dish. However, I think 
eight cents will cover the cost of the small amount needed 
to fill tiny shells of rich pastry, which are to be quickly 
baked and served hot. 

Salad. — Take one half can of salmon, and pour over it 
vinegar enough to cover. Let it stand twenty-four hours, 
then drain. Place in the centre of a small platter, and pour 
tartare sauce around it. A recipe for this having been given 
in menu No. 26, I need not repeat it. 

Wine Custard. — Heat to 100 degrees a pint and a half ol 
milk. Add one and one half table spoonfuls each of sugar 
and* cooking sherry. Stir well, and then add one and one 
half table-spoonfuls of liquid rennet, stirring only enough 
to mix it with the milk. Pour into a glass dish, and it will 
be ready to serve in about two hours. 

Wafers. — Make by any rich jumble or cookie recipe, flavor 
with vanilla, roll very thin and cut in oblongs, like lady 
fingers. 

BILL OF FARE NO. 45. 

Cheese Soup. 

Broiled Oysters. 

Beefsteak, with Olives. 

Broiled Potatoes. Sweet Potatoes. 

Baked Onions. 

Celery. Deviled Biscuit. Bread. 

Juniata Omelet. 

Apple Charlotte. Cheese Straws. 

Coffee. 

COST. 

Soup, 12 cents; oysters, 15 cents; meat, 27 cents; potatoes, 
2 cents; sweets, 3 cents; onions, 4 cents; celery, 4 cents: 
biscuits, 6 cents; bread, 4 cents; omelet, 7 cents; apples, 8 
cents ; cheese, 4 cents ; coffee, 4 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Cheese Soup. — Make a stock from 5 cents' worth of soup 
mutton (a piece from the neck is best). Form drop balls with 
a half cupful of flour, half cupful of milk, one table-spoonful 
of butter, one of grated Parmesan cheese, and one egg. Mix 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 81 

evenly, set in another basin filled with hot water, and cook 
about five minutes, stirring constantly; then set away to 
cool. When cold, roll into little balls about the size of hick- 
ory-nuts. Drop into boiling water and cook gently five 
minutes, but be careful they do not break. Put in the soup 
tureen and pour boiling stock over them. A plate of finely 
grated cheese may be passed with the soup. 

Broiled Oysters. — Take twelve large oysters ; drain, season 
with salt and pepper, dip them in a table-spoonful of melted 
butter, dredge with flour, and broil over a quick fire until 
the edges curl. Trim four slices of toast, butter, and lay 
ihree oysters on each slice, which should be just large 
enough for them. 

Beefsteak, with Olives. — Take one and one half pounds of 
perfectly lean rump beef, trim into cutlets (pear-shaped). 
Melt a table-spoonful of butter in a baking-dish, lay the cut- 
lets in it, and let them stand in a warm place for an hour 
or two ; then sprinkle with salt and pepper, and fry in tea- 
spoonful of butter (very hot), browning both sides. Stone 
and halve six nice olives, and parboil them. Fry an onion 
brown in a little butter, add a little flour, and when this is 
browned add the butter in which the steak was soaking, 
with about half a cup of boiling water added ; pepper, salt, 
and a tiny pinch of allspice, too. Let the sauce boil, strain 
it, add the olives, and serve very hot, with the olives in the 
center, the cutlets (or fillets, as some call them) around. 

Broiled Potatoes. — Boil six large potatoes (in their jackets), 
and let them cool before peeling them. Then slice them 
about half an inch thick, broil on a buttered gridiron, and 
serve them hot, with butter, pepper, and salt. 

Sweet Potatoes. — Four good-sized sweet potatoes, washed 
and boiled. When done, put in the oven on a plate until all 
the moisture has dried off, then peel and cut in halves, glaze 
with butter, season with pepper and salt. 

Backed Onioyis. — Take four good-sized onions, wash clean, 
but do not remove the skins. Boil three quarters of an hour 
in boiling salt water, changing the water twice for more boil- 
ing water. Turn off the water, lay the onions on a cloth, 
that the water may evaporate. Roll each in a round piece 
of buttered tissue-paper, twisting it at the top to keep it 
closed, and bake in a slow oven about half or three quarters 
of an hour. When tender all through, peel them, put in a 
dish and brown slightly, basting with one table-spoonful of 
melted butter frequently. This will take perhaps one quar- 
ter of an hour. Serve in a vegetable-dish, and pour over the 
melted butter, which you have seasoned with pepper and 
salt. 

Deviled Biscuit. —Take one fourth pound of water crackers 



82 ONE HUNDRED PEIZE DINNERS. 

(or biscuits, as the English call them), steep in milk for ten 
minutes, take them out, dust with a little cayenne, salt, and 
black pepper, and bake in a slow oven for about twenty 
minutes. 

Juniata Omelet. — Beat yelks and whites of three eggs sep- 
arately. To the yelks add three fourths of a cup of sweet 
milk, a little salt, teaspoonful of flour well mixed with a lit- 
tle milk; lastly add the whites beaten very stiff, turn into a 
buttered pan, and let it boil until it thickens, stirring con- 
stantly ; then pour into an omelet or baking dish and bake 
in a quick oven. 

Apple Charlotte. — Cut thin slices of bread and soak in one * 
cup of sweet milk ; line the bottom of baking-dish with them ; 
slice four apples in layers, with small bits of beef marrow 
scattered over. (Save the marrow from your steaks, or ask 
your butcher for some.) 



BILL OF FARE NO. 46. 

Ox-tail Soup. 

Roast Chicken. 

Cranberry Jelly. 

Mashed Potatoes. Mashed Turnips. 

Baked Macaroni. 

Leche Creme. 

Crackers. Cheese. 

Cocoa. 

COST. 

One ox tail, 3 cents ; carrot, 1 cent ; sweet potato, 1 cent ; 
onion, 1 cent; chicken, 35 cents; four large potatoes, 3 cents; 
turnips, 3 cents; macaroni, about one fourth of a package, 
4 cents; bread, 2 cents; cranberries, 5 cents; two eggs, 5 
cents; two table-spoonfuls of corn starch, 1 cent; five stale 
sponge cakes, 5 cents ; two teaspoonfuls of arrowroot, 1 cent ; 
jam, 2 cents; milk, 5 cents; cream, 3 cents; sugar, 5 cents; 
butter, 4 cents ; cheese, 7 cents ; cocoa, 5 cents. Total 
cost, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Ox-tail Soup. — Take one ox tail, one onion, one carrot, 
one sweet potato, one table-spoonful of flour, and a little 
white pepper, add two quarts of water, let all boil two 
hours; then take out the tail and cut into small pieces, re- 
turn the bones to the pot for a short time, boil for another 
hour, then strain the soup, adding two spoonfuls of arrow- 
root, with the meat cut from the bones, and let all boil for a 
quarter of an hour. 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 83 

Roast Chicken.~A.ftQv carefully cleaning, stuffing, and 
trussing the chicken, baste with lard or drippings, and roast 
about an hour. Stew the inwards till tender and till there 
is but little water; chop them and mix in gravy from the 
dripping-pan; thicken with brown flour, season with salt, 
pepper, and butter. 

Cranberry Jell//. — Take one pint of cranberries, one half 
cupful of water, half pint of white sugar. Stew slowly, with- 
out stirring, half an hour ; then strain. Serve cold. 

Mashed Potatoes.— Fare, and let them lie in cold water 
about half an hour; boil until well done, and put in a pinch 
of salt; drain thoroughly, when done; sprinkle with salt; 
mash them, working in enough milk to make the paste the 
consistency of soft dough ; leave no lumps in it, and, when 
smooth, dish ; form into a mound, and leave dots of pepper 
here and there on the surface, as large as a half-dime. 

Mashed Turnips. — Take off a thick paring from the out- 
side, and boil the turnips until quite tender. Drain them on 
a sieve, mash them in a colander, pressing and squeezing 
them well. Season with a little pepper and salt. 

Baked Macaroni. — Break in small pieces; soak in milk 
two hours. Grate bread and dried cheese. Put a layer of 
macaroni in a pudding-dish ; add pepper, salt, and butter ; 
then sprinkle the bread and cheese crumbs over, and so con- 
tinue until the dish is filled. Bake until brown. 

Leche Creme. — Boil one pint of milk; mix in two table- 
spoonfuls of corn starch and the yelks of two eggs and one 
half cupful of sugar ; boil a few minutes. Put a layer of stale 
cake at the bottom of a glass dish ; soak in milk; put on a 
layer of jam ; pour the hot custard over at once, then beat 
up the whites to a stiff froth, add a little sugar and put on 
the top. 

Cocoa. — Epp's prepared cocoa is used— two teaspoonfuls of 
cocoa to each cup. Mix into a stiff paste with one teaspoon- 
ful or more of milk, and pour in at once a sufficient quan- 
tity of boiling water, stirring constantly; add cream and 
sweeten to taste. 



84 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

BILL OP FARE NO. 47. 

Clear Chicken Soup, with Rice. 

Fricassee of Lamb. 

Frenched Potatoes. 

Cream Fritters. 

Spaghetti a la Italian. 

Chicken Salad. 

Sponge Pudding, with Snow Sauce. 

Coffee. 

COST. 

Half of a 4£ pound chicken, 30 cents ; 3£ pounds of lamb, 
(neck and arm) 21 cents; milk, 8 cents; potatoes, 5 cents; 
eggs, 7 cents; bread, 5 cents; tomatoes, 3 cents; spaghetti, 
3 cents; celery, 8 cents; parsley, oil, butter, sugar, 6 cents; 
coffee, 4 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Clear Chicken Soup. — Cook the chicken the day before, 
putting it, nicely cleaned and whole, into two and one halt 
quarts of water, allow it to boil three minutes, skim, salt and 
pepper it, and simmer until the meat is tender. The amount 
of time will depend upon the age of the chicken. When 
done, put the chicken aside for salad, and pour the soup 
through a muslin into a deep bowl. When needed remove 
the top and leave tho dregs in the bowl ; what lies between 
is a clear soup, into which -put a spoonful of rice previously, 
boiled in water, not in the soup. 

Fricassee of Lamb. — Cook just as the chicken, and on the 
day before; remove all the bones and be sure that the meat 
is all under water before setting it away to cool. When 
needed, make a rich gravy by using a cupful of the broth 
(remove the fat), one half cup of milk, one half cup of flour, 
little chopped parsley ; season to taste with pepper ; into the 
this put the tender lamb and serve when hot. 

Frenched Potatoes.— Cut raw potatoes, selecting those of 
uniform size, into six pieces; put into cold water overnight, 
in the morning drain them on a towel and plunge into hot 
lard until they are a light brown, about twenty minutes, 
half a wire basketful at a time; lay them on coarse brown 
paper to drain, and sprinkle with salt; serve hot. 

Spaghetti a la Italian.— One dozen sticks of spaghetti 
held in the hand, forced slowly into hot salted water with- 
out breaking; boil fifteen minutes, and drain in cold water; 
have ready a quarter of can of tomatoes boiled in one half 
cup of water and strained ; into this put the spaghetti, and 
allow it to simmer two hours; add a dressing made from 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. §5 

the chopped giblets of the chicken, the top and bottom of 
the soup and a spoonful of flour. 

Cream Fritters. — Put one and a half cups of milk into a 
double kettle, scald and thicken with one half cup of flour, 
season with nutmeg, when cold and solid cut into cubes, roll 
in beaten egg and then bread crumbs, and put into a wire 
basket, a few at a time, and plunge into hot lard ; sprinkle 
with fine sugar and serve hot. 

Chicken Salad. — Do not chop, but cut with a knife, the 
chicken meat into small pieces, also twice as much nicely 
cleaned celery; mix together and cover with the dressing; 
garnish with celery tips and a few capers. 

Salad Dressing.— Beat the yelk of one egg, with one drop 
of oil at a time, until thick (have the egg and oil very cold) ; 
add vinegar and one half teaspoonful of mixed mustard, 
white pepper, and more oil to taste. 

Sponge Pudding.— Six slices of stale baker's bread, over 
which pour boiling water and drain at once and allow them 
to soak in a cupful of milk until they are like pap ; dip them 
in beaten egg and fry them in butter ; be careful to keep the 
slices whole. 

Snoiv Sauce. — Beat the white of an egg stiff; continue 
beating while pouring over it a boiling hot mixture made 
from one half oup of fine sugar, one quarter cup of butter, 
one quarter cup of flour and one half cup of water ; flavor 
with lemon or vanilla. 

Coffee.— Use four table-spoonfuls of ground coffee and four 
cups of water ; steam in a French coffee-pot or boil as mo3t 
convenient ; use an egg shell to settle. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 48. 

Oyster Soup. 

Roast Turkey, Oyster Dressing. 

Cranberry Sauce. 

Mashed Potatoes. Boiled Onions. 

Salsify Croquets. 

Sliced White Turnips, with White Sauce. 

Celery. 

Bread. Butter. 

Mince Pie. 

English Cheese. 

Oranges. 

Coffee. 

COST. 

Oysters, 10 cents ; turkey, 40 cents ; potatoes, 3 cents ; sal- 
sify, 7 cents ; onions, 4 cents ; turnips, 3 cents ; cranberries, 



86 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

3 cents ; coffee, 3 cents ; bread, 4 cents ; butter, 3 cents ; cur- 
rants, 2 cents ; raisins, 2 cents ; spice and sugar, 3 cents ; ap- 
ples, 2 cents; meat, 3 cents; cheese, 4 cents; oranges, 4 
cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Oyster Soup.— To make the soup, buy a pint of oysters, 
with plenty of juice. Strain the juice, use the remainder of 
oysters left from the dressing. Boil the juice with half pint 
or milk, a little butter, pepper, and salt. Thicken with a lit- 
tle flour and water. Put in the oysters, and boil up again, a 
moment or so. A dash of mace is an improvement if pre- 
ferred. Serve immediately. 

Roast Turkey. — Buy a nice tender turkey; dress; wash 
thoroughly in several waters, and dry, salt, and pepper the 
inside. Have a dressing ready of half pint of oysters, half 
loaf of bread. Break the bread in fine pieces and soak in 
enough water to moisten it; then put in a table-spoonful of 
butter, a pinch of salt and pepper, a pinch of thyme, and 
lastly, stir in the raw oysters. You then stuff and sew up 
the opening, tie the neck, sift a little pepper and salt over 
it, putting in the pan with cupful of hot water to keep from 
burning; baste often; let it cook slowly until a fork can 
pass through easily, and a nice brown. Place it on a flat 
dish and garnish with celery leaves. 

Cranberry Sauce.— Look over the berries. Stew in por- 
celain kettle, with enough water to cover. Add sugar to 
taste; a dash of salt. Stir often, and, when done and ber- 
ries soft, turn out in fancy dish and serve cold. 

Mashed Potatoes. — Peel and boil in usual way. Mash 
until fine, and season with pepper, salt, and a little milk. 

Boiled Onions. — Peel and wash the onions (small kind the 
best) ; put them to boil in hot water, and, when tender, drain 
and season with pepper, and salt, and a little milk. 

Salsify Croquets. — Scrape and wash well, and, when 
boiled very soft, mash and season with pepper and salt, a 
little milk, and half a cupful of stale bread crumbs and a 
lump of butter; fry in butter a nice brown, first making 
them into small oval cakes half an inch thick ; serve on flat 
dish and garnish with celery leaves. 

Sliced White Turnips.— Peel and slice, or cut up in narrow 
pieces, the turnip; mash, and boil until tender; when done, 
drain and put them in dish in which they are to be served ; 
season with salt, pepper, and a little butter. 

Sauce for Turnips. —To make the sauce, take half cupful of 
milk, table-spoonful of butter, and enough flour to thicken 
(about two teaspoonfuls) ; let it boil two or three minutes 
and pour over the hot turnips, sprinkle a little pepper on 
top, and serve. 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 87 

Celery. — Wash and arrange the celery in celery -glass and 
stand away in cool place until served. 

Mince Pie.— One cupful of meat, one of raisins, one of 
currents, two or three apples, small piece of citron, sliced ; 
half a teaspoonful of cinnamon,- allspice, and cloves; salt to 
taste, and dash of pepper ; juice and rind of one lemon (small 
one). Peel and chop up the apple, wash and dry the cur- 
rants, boil the meat tender in little water, retaining the 
juice for moistening the other ingredients; add the spice to 
mixture, and seasoning, and then boil all together with half 
a cupful of suet a tew moments, when you set it to cool until 
the crust is made, as follows : 

Crust for Pie. — Take a cup of flour, a table spoonful of 
butter, and a little lard. Moisten enough to roll out thin, 
grease the pie plate well, and then proceed to finish the pie. 
Bake in moderate oven to a nice brown. When done, sift 
fine white sugar on top and set in a cool place until served. 

English Cheese. — Serve the cheese on a fancy dish. 

Oranges.— Place the oranges on a high fruit dish and 
garnish with leaves. 

Coffee.— Moisten five table spoonfuls coffee in little water, 
and the white cf an egg and shell (part of the white is 
enough) ; pour five medium-sized cupfuls of boiling water, 
stirring slowly. Let it boil hard three minutes. Set back 
a moment to settle, and then serve. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 49. 

Soup Crecy. Croutons. 

Braised Beef. 

Mashed Potatoes. Green Peas. 

Mock Oyster Fritters. 

Pickled Beets. 

Home-made Bread. Butter. 

Baked Indian Pudding. 

Coffee. 

COST. 

Milk, 25 cents; beef, 27 cents; potatoes, 3 cents; peas, 2i; 
salsify, 9 cents; beets, 3 cents; carrots, 4 cents; bread, 3 
cents; butter, 7 cents; vinegar, 2 cents; molasses, 4 cents; 
flour, 1 cent; cornmeal, 1 cent; sugar, 2 cents; coffee, 4 
cents ; seasoning, 2£ cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Soup Crecy.— Take three good-sized carrots, scrape, and 
cut in small dice. Cook in boiling salted water two hours, 



88 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

or until tender. Press through a strainer. Put in a double 
boiler three cupfuls milk, one table-spoonful chopped onion, 
one half saltspoonful celery salt, one saltspoonful salt, one 
half saltspoonful white pepper, boil five minutes, then pour 
over the grated carrot. Put all through a fine puree sieve 
and return to the double boiler. Blend smoothly one table- 
spoonful flour with a little cold water; add to the soup and 
Stir until it thickens. Serve with crou*tons. 

Croutons.— Butter one slice of bread, cut in half-inch dice, 
lay on a baking-pan, and set in the oven until brown. 

Braised Beef.— Trim, a three-pound piece cut from the 
horseshoe, and wipe with a damp cloth. Put a frying-pan 
on the fire, and when a blue smoke rises from the centre of 
the pan lay in the meat, turning until all sides are well 
browned. Transfer to the braising-pan, add half an onion 
chopped fine, four cloves, half a teaspoonful salt, half a salt- 
spoonful pepper, and one pint hot water. Cover tightly, and 
cook in a moderate oven four hours. Baste every fifteen 
minutes. Add more water if needed. 

Gravy. — Skim off the fat from the pan. Add two table- 
spoonfuls browned flour, blend smoothly with a little cold 
water. Cook two minutes and serve. 

Mashed Potatoes. — Peel and boil three good-sized potatoes 
in salted water.. When done, mash, season with one salt- 
spoonful salt, quarter saltspoonful pepper, one table spoon- 
ful butter. Add quarter cupfid hot milk, beat with a fork 
till light, and serve. 

Green Peas.— Soak one cupful of dried green peas in cold 
water all night. In the morning, cook in boiling salted 
water, one and one half hours ; drain ; add one cup of hot 
milk, one table -spoonful of butter, and season to taste. 

Mock Oyster Fritters.— Scrape one bunch of salsify and 
cook in boiling salted water until tender. Make a fritter 
batter with one and three quarter cupfuls of milk, two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking-powder, one half saltspoonful of salt, 
one quarter saltspoonful of pepper, and flour sufficient; 
mash the salsify and add to the batter ; drop by table- 
spoonfuls in smoking hot fat and cook three minutes. 

Pickled Beets. — Wash two beets and boil till tender; skin, 
slice, and cover with one cupful of cold vinegar. 

Indian Pudding. —Scald one quart of milk; stir in six 
table-spoonfuls of corn meal, one teaspoonful of salt, one 
cupful of molasses, one table-spoonful of ginger; bake three 
hours; when half done, pour over two cupfuls of milk, 
Serve with one pint of hot milk. 

Coffee.— As usually made. 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 89 

BILL OF FAEE NO. 50. 

Oysters on the Half Shell. 

Veal and Ham Pie. 
Potatoes, Kentucky Style. 
Salad— Potato and Beet. Corn Fritters. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

New England Indian Pudding, with Sugar 

and Cream. 

Coffee. Bread. 

COST. 

Twenty oysters, 15 cents; lemon, 1 cent; two pounds 
breast of veal, 22 cents; one quarter pound ham, 5 cents; 
three ounces butter, 6 cents; two ounces lard, 2 cents; oil 
and egg for salad, 6 cents ; potatoes, 2 cents ; parsley, 1 cent ; 
beet (one), 1 cent; corn (one third can), 5 cents; milk, eggs, 
currants, meal, and sugar for pudding, 16 cents; coffee, 4 
cents ; cream, for pudding sauce and coffee, 6 cents ; milk, 
for potatoes and fritters, 6 cents; bread (half -loaf, home- 
made), 2 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Twenty large oysters on the half shell, serve with quarter 
of lemon. 

Veal and Ham Pie — Cut two pounds of breast of veal into 
pieces two inches long and an inch wide; put them on in 
boiling water with the bones and simmer gently one hour ; 
remove the meat, leaving the bones in the broth, to which 
add half a bay leaf, a small pinch of thyme, one of savory, 
and two sprigs of parsley, a saltspoonful of salt, a quarter 
one of pepper, and let it boil gently two hours longer, and re- 
duce liquor by rapid boiling to a little over half a pint; then 
strain. Cut a quarter of a pound of ham in very thin strips, 
put on in cold water, and let it come slowly to the boiling- 
point. Make forcemeat balls of a cup of bread crumbs, a 
teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley, one eighth teaspoon- 
ful each of thyme and marjoram, one squeeze of lemon 
juice, saltspoonful of salt and a quarter one of pepper, a 
tablespoon! ul of suet and half an egg well beaten. Make 
into little balls. Take a deep oval dish, put a layer of ham, 
one of veal, some forcemeat balls, a little salt and pepper, 
so on till the dish is full, heaping it up in the middle. Pour 
over it the broth. Make a puff paste of three ounces (a little 
less than a gill) of butter, two ounces (one half gill) of lard, 
one pint of sifted flour, and a little salt. Make as quickly 
and cold as possible. Wet the lip of dish and lay a strip of 
paste around it. Then moisten upper surface and lay sheet 



90 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

of paste over the top. Press upper and under paste together, 
leaving edges untouched. Cut a hole in center of crust. 
Bake in a moderate oven one hour. 

Potatoes, Kentucky Style.— Slice four potatoes very thin 
and let them stand one half-hour in cold water; put them 
in a pudding dish and add salt, pepper, and milk to nearly 
cover, and a few sprigs of parsley; cover and bake till done, 
which will require at least one hour; remove the cover, and 
brown; add some bits of butter, and serve hot. 

Corn Fritters.— Take one cup till of canned sweet corn, 
drain off liquor and chop very line; add half a cupful of milk 
half a table-spoonful of sugar, half a table spoonful of butter, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, and half a saltspoonful of pepper, 
and a table-spoonful of flour; beat all thoroughly and fry by 
spoonfuls in boiling lard ; drain well and serve at once. 

Salad. — Choose a large red beet and bake till tender, 
which will take two hours in a slow T oven; cut in dice; slice 
with it two medium-sized potatoes; make a dressing by tak- 
ing the yelk of an egg well beaten; add one saltspoonful of 
salt and a half saltspoonful. each of pepper and mustard; 
add slowly three table-spoonfuls of salad oil and one or vine- 
gar, beating well ; beat the white of an egg and add last and 
pour over salad ; garnish with parsley. 

Indian Pudding. — Take a little over half a cupful of yellow 
Indian meal, add half a teaspoonful of salt, and scald with a 
cup of boiling water; heat two cups of miik in a farina-ket- 
tle, stir in the scalded meal and boil half an hour; beat two 
eggs lighi; add two thirds of a cup of brown sugar, a table- 
spoonful of butter, scant half table-spoonful each of cinna- 
mon, ginger, and nutmeg, one crjp of English currants and 
the batter from the farina kettle, beating all well ; pour into 
a greased pudding-dish and hake three quarters of an hour 
(covered) in a steady oven ; remove cover, and brown. Serve 
with sweetened cream, seasoned with grated nutmeg. 

Coffee.— Put four heaping table-spoonfuls of coffee, 
ground very fine, in a drip coffee-pot. Take a pint and a gill 
of boiling water, pour half of it on the coffee, and let it drip 
through; then the other half the same. Pour out a cup of 
coffee and let it drip through again. This is intended for 
small cups of coffee. Serve with sugar and cream. 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINXERS. 91 

BILL OF FARE NO. 51. 

Tomato Bisque. 

Roast Beef. 

Spinach in Crust. 

Potato Puff. 

Bread and Butter. 

Custard Pie. 

Tea. 

COST. 

Blatter, one half pound, 14 cents ; sugar, one quarter pound, 
2 cents; milk, three pints, 12 cents; flour, one half pound, 
2 cents; eggs, three, 6 cents; potatoes, less than a quart, 3 
cents ; spinach, small measure, 10 cents ; beef, three pounds, 
36 cents; lard, one quarter pound, 3 cents; bread, 2 cents; 
tea, 2 cents ; condiments, 3 cents ; tomatoes, one half can, 5 
cents. Total, $1.00. 

PREPARATION. 

Tomato Bisque. — Milk, one pint ; water, one pint ; tomatoes, 
one pint; butter, one teaspoonful; soda, half teaspoonful; 
flour, one teaspoonful ; pepper to taste ; salt to taste. Mix 
the water and tomatoes and bring to a boil; then add the 
flour and butter, well creamed ; then the seasoning. Heat 
the milk (in another vessel) to a scald, pour it into the water 
and tomatoes, immediately add the soda, stir rapidly, as the 
soda causes the mixture to effervesce. Serve immediately. 
Should be of the consistency of cream. 

Roast Beef. — Beef, boneless, three pounds. With a clean 
cloth wipe the meat well, pepper and salt lightly ; do not put 
any water in the dripping pan ; roast three quarters of an 
hour in a moderate oven ; baste occasionally with the drip- 
pings from the meat. 

Spinach Served in Crust. — Spinach, small measure ; butter, 
one table-spoonful; pepper and salt to taste. Put the 
spinach in a saucepan with a half cup of water and a little 
salt ; boil twenty minutes, uncovered ; when done drain well, 
chop fine, add butter and pepper. Fill the little crusts (baked 
in the gem pans) with the spinach and serve. 

Potato Puff. — Potatoes, two cupfuls (cold mashed pota- 
toes); butter, two table- spoonfuls; eggs, one; milk, one tea- 
cup. Melt the butter and beat it and the potato to a white 
cream before adding anything else ; add one egg whipped 
very light and a teacup of milk, seasoning to taste. Beat 
all well and pour into a deep dish ; bake in a quick oven till 
well browned. 

Crust for Pie and Spinach.— Flour, one coffee cup; lard, 
half cup; butter, quarter cup; yeast powder, one and a half 



92 ONE HUNDEED PRIZE DINNERS. 

teaspoonfuls ; salt and water, quarter teaspoon ful salt. Mix 
the flour, powder and salt, rub in the lard; add a little cold 
water, stirring with a knife ; flour well the pasteboard and 
rolling pin, roll out the crust quite thin, with a knife lay on 
a thin layer of butter, sprinkle lightly with flour, fold up the 
paste roll and butter until the butter is all used, line a pie 
plate with quite a thin crust, sides and bottom well pricked 
with a fork ; bake in a quick oven till of a light brown. 
Line four gem pans with the remaining crust, pricked with 
a fork and filled with stale crusts of bread; bake in a quick 
oven (for the spinach). 

Custard for Pie.— Eggs, three; milk, one pint ; sugar, two 
or three table-spoonfuls; flavoring, nutmeg or lemon rind 
(grated). Whip the eggs very light, add the milk and sugar, 
flavor to taste, put into the pie plate and bake quickly. 
Baking the crust before putting in the custard prevents the 
crust being soggy. 

Tea.— As usually made. 



BILL OF FAKE NO. 52. 

Soup, Julienne. 
Broiled Scrod, Garnished with Sliced 

Lemon and Parsley. 

Mutton Cutlets Breaded, with Tomato 

Sauce. 

Lyonaise Potatoes, Spaghetti with Cheese. 

Celery-, Bread and Butter. 

White House Pudding. 

Apples. Coffee. 

COST. 

Soup bone, 5 cents ; one half pint chopped vegetables, 3 
cents; scrod, 14 cents; one lemon, 2 cents; parsley, 1 cent; 
six cutlets, 30 cents ; cup tomato, 3 cents ; two small onions, 
lcent; four potatoes, 3 cents; quarter pound spaghetti, 4 
cents; cheese, 3 cents; celery, 5 cents; bread, 3 cents; butter, 

4 cents ; milk, 3 cents ; eggs, 5 cents ; sugar, 2 cents ; coffee, 

5 cents; apples, 4 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Soup. — The day before wanted cover a soup bone, with 
some meat on it, with two quarts of water, half an onion and 
a little salt. Let it stand half an hour before boiling, then 
come slowly to a boil. Simmer several hours, strain, set 
away to cool. There should be about one and a half pints 
wjjen strained, Boiling water mav be added while cooking 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 93 

if it boils away. A short time before serving remove all fat, 
put stock on the fire, add half pint mixed vegetables, cut in 
uniform dice shape which have previously been cooked in 
salted water and drained. Season with grated celery root, 
salt, and pepper. Boil up and serve. 

Broiled Scrod.— Place on a well greased gridiron, broil 
delicate brown, spread with butter, sprinkle salt and pepper 
over it, remove to a hot platter, garnish with sliced lemon, 
and sprigs of parsley. Scrod is young cod-fish split and 
prepared for boiling; is very delicate and appetizing. 

Mutton Cutlets, Breaded. — Have your butcher remove the 
bone and roll ; dip in egg and crumbs ; fry in hot fat. 

Tomato Sauce. — Fry half onion in table-spoonful of but- 
ter; add one cup canned tomato; cook a few moments to 
take off raw taste ; strain ; place on fire again ; thicken with 
little flour ; season with salt and pepper. 

Lyonaise Potatoes. — Chop half onion ; fry slowly in a table- 
spoonful butter until slightly colored ; add four cold boiled 
potatoes, diced; sprinkle over them salt and pepper and a 
teaspoon ful of chopped parsley ; stir carefully until thorough- 
ly hot, being careful not to break. 

Spaghetti. — Break quarter pound in inch pieces; throw 
into boiling salted water; boll half hour; rinse with cold 
water through colander; put a little on bottom of dish with 
bits of butter, salt, and grated cheese, then another layer, 
and so on till used ; add a little milk or beef stock to moisten ; 
put in oven till brown on top. 

Celery.— Scrape and wash thoroughly. Keep in cold water 
to make crisp. When ready to serve drain and place in a 
glass. 

White House Pudding. — Put a pint of milk in double boil- 
er. Let come to a boil. Beat the yolks of two eggs. Add 
half cup of sugar and one table-spoonful corn starch. Wet 
with little cold milk, little salt. Beat together, add to milk, 
boil until it thickens and remove from fire. Flavor with 
half teaspoonful lemon extract. Pour into pudding dish. 
Beat whites to stiff froth, sweeten and spread on top and put 
in the oven to brown. 

Coffee.— -Half cupful ground coffee (two thirds Java, one 
third Mocha). Moisten with cold water. Add broken egg- 
shell. Pour on it a pint and one half boiling water, and 
boil ten minutes and serve in after-dinner cups. 



94 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 53. 

Clam Soup. 

Fried Rabbit. Scalloped Oysters. 

JVtashed Potatoes. Squash. Hot-slaw. 

Turnips. Celery. Pickles. 

Celery Salad. Bread, Brown and White. 

Squash Pie. Apples and Bananas. Coffee. 

COST. 

Soup, 12 cents; rabbit, 20 cents; oysters, with crackers, 
12 cents; cabbage, 3 cents; potatoes, 2 cents; squash, 5 
cents; turnips, 2 cents; celery, 5 cents; pickles, 1 cent; 
bread, one half loaf each, 5 cents; fruit, 6 cents; milk, 10 
cents ; apples and bananaa, 8 cents ; coffee, 4 cents ; eggs, 5 
cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Clam Soup — Take four slices of bacon, fry brown in the 
kettle the soup is to be made in. When, done take out on a 
platter, and serve as a side-dish ; pour into the kettle one 
quart of water, one half dozen clams chopped fine, two po- 
tatoes cut into dice, one large onion chopped fine, one half 
pint tomatoes. When the vegetables are done, add one pint 
milk, let it come to boil ; season with salt and red pepper to 
taste ; pour over four split Boston crackers. 

Rabbit. — Cut in six nieces, boil in water enough to cover; 
when tender, fry in drippings until brown. 

Scalloped Oysters. — Butter a small dish; put alternate 
layers of oysters and cracker crumbs, with bits of butter 
scattered on, salt and pepper to taste. 

Mashed Potatoes, Squash, Turnips, Hot-slaw.— Cook in 
the usual manner, which all housekeepers understand. 

Celery Salad. —Chop fine the outside stems of the head of 
celery, and two cupsful of cabbage chopped fine; for dressing 
take yelk of one egg, one half teaspoonful of musrard, one 
third cupful of vinegar, table- spoonful of salad oil, red pep- 
per, and salt to taste; pour over celery and cabbage. 

Squash Pie. — One cupful of squash strained through a 
colander; add one egg, one pint milk, pinch of salt; sweeten 
to taste, and season with cinnamon. 



O&E Hl'NDliKh PRIZE DINNERS. 95 

BILL OF FARE NO. 54. 

Oyster Soup. 

Chops a la Pickwick. 

Mashed Potatoes. June Peas. 

Finger Rolls and Butter. 

Chocolote and Vanilla Pudding. 

Coffee. 

COST. 

Oysters, 15 cents; milk for soup, 4 cents; chops, 25 cents; 
tomatoes, 6 cents; potatoes, 3 cents; peas, 15 cents; pud- 
ding, 10 cents; coffee, 5 cents; butter, 12 cents; rolls, 5 
cents ; sugar, salt, and pepper, 5 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

First, buy only the best of everything. 

Oyster Soup. — After removing the cream from a quart 
bottle of milk (to be reserved for the coffee), pour one half 
of the remaining in a stewpan; let it come to a boil; add 
the oysters ; come to a boil again ; add the liquor, pepper, 
salt, teaspoonf ul of butter ; as soon as it boils again, pour in 
soup-tureen and serve. If you have any change left from 
your dollar, you might judiciously spend it in crackers to 
be served with the soup. 

Chops a la Pickwick.— Boil one half can of best tomatoes; 
strain them; add small table-spoonful of salt, large table- 
spoonful of butter; pepper well; when boiling, thicken with 
table-spoonful of corn starch, dissolved in a little water; stir 
constantly ; as soon as it boils up, remove to back of range ; 
get one pound of lamb chops (tne choice little rib chops) ; 
broil quickly, turning often, and drop from broiler into the 
tomato sauce, which must be kept boiling hot; remove to 
deep platter; pour the sauce over and around the chops. 
Serve. 

Mashed Potatoes. — Boil six nice potatoes ; beat with potato- 
masher until light ; add milk enough to moisten, lump of 
butter ; salt to taste. 

Peas. — Be particular and get early June peas, any good 
packing; throw them from the can into a colander; dash 
cold water over them quickly; put in a stewpan, adding 
sufficient water to cook them, lump of butter, salt to taste; 
boil hard a very few minutes. Treated in this manner, they 
will be found superior to the French peas, and cost but fif- 
teen cents. Serve the potato on plates with the chops, the 
peas on separate sauce dishes. 

Pudding.— Beat one egg with two table-spoonfuls of gran- 
ulated sugar, and one half table-spoonful of corn starch; 



96 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

pour on small quantity of cold milk to dissolve the corn 
starch; add very small pinch of salt, and teaspoonful of va- 
nilla. Put one pint of milk on to boil ; when boiling, add the 
above mixture, stirring constantly; as soon as it hubbies up, 
it is done; pour very slowly into four small glass sauce- 
dishes; divide the quantity into five, as near as possible, 
equal parts, reserving one in the stewpan ; to this stir in two 
sticks of German sweet chocolate, scraped (or the same 
quantity of Baker's, when a little sugar is added), heatim 
till dissolved ; pour a coating of the chocolate over the four 
dishes of custard. Serve very cold. 

Coffee.— Grind five table-spoonfuls of best Java and Mocha ; 
put in old-fashioned coffee-pot, mixing well with one beaten 
egg; pour on four and one half cupfuls of cold water; let it 
boil ten minutes; settle with table-spoonful of cold water; 
serve in china cups with cream or condensed milk ; place two 
lumps of sugar on each saucer. 

Buy rolls at any first-class bakery. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 55. 

Chicken Soup. 

Roast Turkey, Cranberry Jelly. 

Potatoes. Onions. Squash. Celery. 

Plum Pudding, Lemon Sauce. 

Oranges. Nuts. 

Coffee, 

COST. 

Soup, 5 cents ; turkey, 40 cents ; cranberry sauce, 4 cents ; 
potatoes, 3 cents; onions, 3 cents; squash, 2 cents; celery, 4 
cents; bread, 3 cents; pudding, 10 cents; sauce, 5 cents; 
oranges, 8 cents ; mixed nuts and raisins, 10 cents ; coffee, 3 
cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Chicken Soup. — Take the bones, remnants, and gravy of 
a fricasseed chicken left from a previous day's dinner. Put 
them in a saucepan with three pints of cold water. Boil 
slowly two hours or more. Strain through a colander, and 
return to the saucepan, adding one half cupful pearl barley, 
one onion, and a few of the stalks of celery, chopped to- 
gether, a little parsley, and season with salt, pepper, and a 
dash of cayenne. Boil an hour longer, filling up to three 
pints if it boils away. Curry-powder may be used or 
omitted. 

Boast Turkey. —It is always better economy to buy a good 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 9Y 

sized fowl and make two dinners of it, than a small one; as 
in that case you pay but once for the head, feet, bones, and 
entrails. This turkey weighed eight pounds, and made two 
ample dinners and a nice turkey hash for the following 
day's lunch. This bill of fare calls for the first half of the 
turkey. Singe, dress, and wash the turkey carefully, wiping 
it with a clean towel ; rub inside with salt, and pepper, and 
fill with the following dressing: Wet stale bread with cold 
water; when moist, press out all the water, and add thiee 
stalks of celery and a slice of onion chopped fine ; season 
quite highly with salt, and pepper, a very little thyme, and 
two table-spoonfuls of butter; sew up carefully, and bind 
the wings and legs snugly to the body with a cord ; rub the 
outside with salt and pepper; dredge with flour, and place 
bits of butter over the top ; put in a dripping-pan, with one 
cup of water; roast in a hot oven two and a half hours, 
basting frequently ; boil and chop the giblets quite fine, and 
use in the gravy, which should be thickened with two table- 
spoonfuls of flour ; add enough water to make a large bowl- 
ful. 

Cranberry Jelly.— Wash and pick over cranberries; cover 
with water, and boil thoroughly ; press through a strainer, 
and add sugar enough to jelly ; boil six minutes, and turn 
into mould. 

Potatoes.— Wash and pare four large potatoes; boil in 
salted water, and when just done (not a moment over) drain 
and mash thoroughly; season with a little milk, butter, and 
salt; make into a pyramid, and serve at once. 

White Onions. — Cover the onions with boiling water a few 
moments, as the skin removes more easily, and the odor does 
not affect the eyes ; boil one hour in a saucepan kept full of 
water; drain and season with salt, white pepper, one half 
cupful of milk, and a little butter; simmer slowly ten min- 
utes, and serve hot in a covered dish. 

Squash.— Steam part of a winter squash one hour. Mash 
through a colander, and season with salt, pepper, and but- 
ter, and serve very hot. 

Graham Plum Puddiny. — One cupful of New Orleans mo- 
lasses, one and one half cupfuls Graham flour, one cupful of 
milk, one cupful raisins and currants, one table-spoonful but- 
ter,one half nutmeg, one teaspoonful soda, one half teaspoon- 
ful cinnamon, one egg beaten thoroughly. Dissolve the soda 
in a little hot water, stir it into the molasses, add spices and 
the butter, then the milk and flour, and, last, the egg and 
fruit. Beat thoroughly, and steam three hours in a tin pail, 
well buttered. Turn out on a large fancy plate, and serve 
with lemon sauce. 

Lemon Sauce.— A small lemon cut in three slices, one cupful 



98 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

sugar, one pint boiling water, one table-spoonful corn starch, 
two table-spoonfuls butter. Boil the lemon in the water a 
few minutes, then add the corn starch (wet with water,) the 
sugar, and butter. A wine sauce can be used if preferred. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 56. 

Roast Lamb. 

Wheatena Oystery. Celery. 

Parsnips. Baked Potatoes. 

Steamed Apples. 

Bread. Butter. 

Wheatena Pudding. 

Coffee. 

COST. 

Lamb, 3 pounds, 43 cents ; wheatena oystery, 10 cents ; 
celery, 4 cents; parsnips, 2 cents; potatoes, 2 cents; apples, 
2 cents; bread and butter, 10 cents; wheatena pudding, 12 
cents; coffee, 3 cents; cream, 7 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Roast Lamb. — Wash, and rub with salt. Put in a drip- 
ping-pan, and roast in hot oven till well done and browned. 

Gravy.— Take out the meat and pour off the fat from the 
drippings; then set the pan on the stove. Add a little boil- 
ing water, and thicken with table-spoonful of flour. 

Wheatena Oystery.— Boil one half pint oysters in one 
quart water. Add a little salt. When the oysters are done, 
thicken with four table-spoonfuls of wheatena. Boil one 
minute and pour into a bread- tin. Do this some hours be- 
fore mealtime. When ready for use, slice off like bread, 
having pieces one half inch thick. Fry these brown on both 
sides in a spider, with a little butter. Serve on a platter 
garnished with parsley. 

Celery.— Wash, separate, and place in glass. 

Baked Potatoes.— Wash four large potatoes, and put in 
oven. Will bake in one hour. 

Parsnips. — Wash two good -sized parsnips; cut in two, 
lengthwise, and boil till tender. Remove skins. 

Steamed Apples. — Place four perfect apples on a place in 
the steamer. Will cook in about half an hour. 

Wheatena Pudding.— Put one pint milk and one pint wa- 
ter in a double boiler, with one square grated Baker's choc- 
olate, a little salt, and one half cupful sugar. When these 
have boiled a few moments, stir in four table-spoonfuls of 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 99 

wheatena. Boil for one minute while stirring, and pour into 
moulds. When cold, serve with whipped cream or soft 
boiled custard. 
Coffee.— According to common recipes. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 57. 

Chicken Sago Soup. 

Fried Smelts, Sauce Tartare. 

Boudins a la Reine, Sauce Bechamel. 

Beignets, au Pommes. Spaghetti, au Gratin. 

Potatoes a la Creme. 

Charlotte-russe. Neufchatel Cheese. 

Black Coffee. 

COST. 

Chicken, 28 cents; smelts, 10 cents; one pint milk, 4 cents; 
three eggs, 6 cents ; Neufchatel cheese, 5 cents ; cheese for 
spaghetti, 3 cents; spaghetti, 4 cents; potatoes, 3 cents; four 
apples, 2 cents; coffee, 4 cents; currant jelly, 2 cents; but- 
ter, 4 cents; bread, 4 cents; sago, i cent; two small onions, 
parsley, small gherkin, pepper, and salt, 2± cents; oil, 4 cents; 
charlotte-russe : one kitchen spoon gelatine, 1 cent ; powdered 
sugar, 1£ cent ; one half pint cream, 10 cents ; stale home- 
made sponge cake, 2 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Chicken (weighing two and one half pounds).— Singe, 
clean, and put on to boil in three quarts of hot water. 
When scum rises, remove it. Thoroughly wash feet, and 
pour on boiling water to remove skins. Add them with 
giblets to the water in which chicken is cooking ; also add 
one onion minced fine. As water boils away, add more, and 
keep always about the same quantity. When chicken is 
cooked, take from kettle, and free from bones and skin, and 
set away to cool. This should be done day previous to using. 
Return bones to soup-kettle, and let them boil an hour or 
more to extract all the goodness. Then strain liquor and 
set away till next day. When needed for soup, skim off all 
the fat and let it cook away until only enough is left for the 
quantity of soup required. An hour before it is needed, 
mince fine one large onion, and tie it up in a piece of cheese- 
cloth and put into soup ; also add one large kitchen-spoonful 
of sago. Before serving remove the onion. Put by each 



100 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

plate a piece of bread one and one half inches thick, and 
about the width and length of two fingers. 

Smelts.— Three quarters of a pound of smelts. To clean 
them, make a slight opening at the gills; then draw them 
between the thumb and finger, beginning at the tail. This 
will press out all the insides. Wash and wipe them. 
Sprinkle with salt, dip in beaten egg with a spoonful or two 
of milk, then in meal, and fry in boiling fat. Serve on plat- 
ter, with three corner-pieces of bread (dried in the oven till 
light brown) arranged around edge. Pile the smelts criss- 
cross, as children build a cob house. Set the sauce tartare 
on a little fancy dish beside the smelts. 

Sauce Tartare.— Put the uncooked yelk of an egg into a 
clean, cold soup-plate. Beat well with a silver or wooden 
fork for one minute. Then add a quarter of a teaspoonful 
of salt, a dash of cayenne, and, if you like, half a teaspoon- 
ful of mustard. Work these well together, and add, drop 
by drop, two large spoonfuls of olive oil. Stir rapidly and 
steadily while adding the oil; do not reverse the motion. 
After adding half the oil, alternate occasionally with vinegar 
until of the right consistency. Chop fine one gherkin and 
stir in. 

Boudins a la Reine. — One pint cold cooked chicken, 
chopped fine ; one table-spoonful butter, two table-spoonfuls 
dried bread crumbs, one half cupful stock, one egg, dash nut- 
meg, one table-spoonful finely chopped parsley, salt, and 
pepper to taste. Put butter in a frying-pan to melt, add to 
it bread crumbs and stock; stir until it boils. Take from 
the fire and add chicken, parsley, nutmeg, salt and pepper, 
and the egg slightly beaten; mix thoroughly together ; fill 
tea or custard cups three quarters full with this mixture ; 
stand in a baking-pan half filled with boiling water, and 
bake in moderate oven twenty minutes. When done, turn 
out carefully on heated platters, and pour around them 
bechamel sauce. 

Bechamel Sauce.— One table-spoonful butter, one table- 
spoonful flour, one gill stock, one gill milk or cream, two 
dashes pepper, yelk of one egg, half teaspoonful salt. Melt 
butter without browning, then add the flour; mix until 
smooth ; add stock and milk ; stir continually until it boils ; 
take from fire, add salt and pepper, and yelk of egg well 
beaten. Use for both these stock from chicken. 

Beignets, au Pommes. — Peel and core four medium-sized 
apples; cut each one in four pieces on the round. Make 
batter of white of egg lightly beaten, with little flour, milk 
and salt to make a thin batter. Dip each piece in the batter, 
and fry like doughnuts. Arrange on fancy plate, with pieces 
overlapping each other, leaving space in center for a spoon- 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 101 

ful or two of current jelly melted and poured in. Sift over 
all a spoonful powdered sugar. This makes very attractive 
entree. 

Spaghetti, au Gratin.— Break one quarter package spag- 
hetti in small pieces, and put to cook in hot salted water 
with a little more than covers them. Just before it is done, 
add two thirds cupful of milk ; let cook about fifteen min- 
utes, then set away to cool. Put in a saucepan a table- 
spoonful butter; do not let it brown, only melt. Then add 
three table-spoonfuls grated cheese; stir until to a paste; 
add slowly one cupful milk; let it boil up well; season with 
red pepper and salt. Then put in spaghetti, and let it cook 
well in it. Put in baking dish ; cover with bread crumbs, a 
little cheese, and small bit of butter. Brown in the oven 
from one half to three quarters of an hour, according to the 
heat. 

Potatoes a la Creme. — Peel and boil in hot salted water 
five large potatoes. When thoroughly done, mash fine and 
beat till smooth ; add salt, a bit of butter the size of a wal- 
nut, and enough hot milk to make it shape well. Take after- 
dinner coffee-cup, and, after wetting in water, fill with the 
potato crowded in firmly ; slip it on a heated platter, and so 
continue till potato is used sufficient for dinner. Put pieces 
of butter size of pea on each, and set on grate in oven to 
brown: Just before sending to table, stick in the top of 
each form a small sprig of parsley. 

Charlotte-russe. — Take large table-spoonful of gelatine; 
soak in half a gill of cold milk; set it in a vessel of hot 
water, where it will get thoroughly melted, then cool it and 
stir into the whipped cream. Have half pint of cream very 
cold; whip it stiff; beat white of egg stiff; add one-third 
teacup powdered sugar; beat these thoroughly and flavor 
with drop or two of vanilla or anything best liked. Cut 
some stale sponge cake, which can be bought or made be- 
fore, as one prefers ; cut very thin ; line a glass dish with 
pieces cut to fit the height of dish ; then pour in the whipped 
cream, and set on ice to get perfectly cold. 

Cheese. — Purchase at grocer's. 

Coffee.— Half cupful Java coffee, ground very fine ; put into 
French percolating coffee-pot, and pour on slowly one pint 
boiling water ; when thorougnly drained, pour off and turn 
through again ; do this three or four times ; serve in small 
cups. 



102 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

BILL OF FARE NO. 58. 

Veal and Tapioca Soup. 

Roast Turkey. 

Sweet Potatoes. Cabbage. Breaded Potatoes. 

Endive Salad. 

English Plum Pudding. Wine Sauce. 

Cheese Canapees. 

Coffee. 

COST. 

Soup bone and tapioca, 6 cents ; one half turkey, 40 cents ; 
sweet potatoes, 2 cents ; white potatoes, 1 cent ; cranberries 
and sugar, 6 cents ; cabbage and egg, 4 cents ; salad, endive, 
5 cents; egg, 2 cents; coffee, sugar and cream, 6 cents; 
pudding, suet 1 cent; currants, 2 cents; raisins, 3 cents; 
citron, 3 cents; milk, 4 cents; egg, 2 cents; sugar (for sauce), 
2 cents; wine, 4 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Veal and Tapioca Soup. — Five cents' worth neck of veal, 
bones well broken and meat cut small, half a turnip and a 
quarter of an onion, one spoonful of salt, one forth spoonful 
of pepper, one teaspoonful celery essence, a little over a 
quart of cold water. Put meat in cold water, let it come to a 
boil, skim, add vegetables, salt, and pepper, and boil three 
hours. Soak one large table-spoonful of pearl tapioca in a 
little milk same length of time/ strain soup, skim off all fat, 
return to fire, and add tapioca. Stir till melted, simmer half 
an hour, add celery essence and serve. 

Roast Turkey. — Stuff the turkey with a dressing prepared 
of bread crumbs, fried with a little butter, seasoned with 
salt, pepper, a pinch of thyme and a few sprigs of parsley ; 
bind with a beaten egg ; rub inside of turkey with pepper 
and salt ; stuff the breast and body, sew up openings, and 
tie wings and legs down firmly ; place to roast on a rack in 
a dripping pan and allow fifteen minutes to each pound; 
place on the breast the pieces of fat taken from the turkey ; 
turn and baste frequently with butter, pepper, salt, and 
water; take up the turkey when done, and thicken the gravy 
with flour, add a little milk, and serve hot. 

Sweet Potatoes. —Parboil four medium -sized potatoes in 
salted water, put in the oven and bake to a delicate brown, 
turning often. 

Delicate Cabbage. — Slice half a head of cabbage very fine; 
put a little butter in a frying-pan and wilt the cabbage, cook- 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 103 

ing it several minutes ; remove from fire ; make a dressing 
of yelk of an egg, half cupful of milk, scant teaspoonful flour, 
teaspoonful sugar, table-spoonful of vinegar and a little 
mustard, half a saltspoonful of salt and a pinch of pepper; 
stir all well, adding vinegar last; pour over cabbage and let 
it boil up once. 

Breaded Potatoes.— Boil four medium-sized potatoes till 
done, dip in beaten white of egg, then in powdered bread 
crumbs, and fry in hot lard. 

Salad.— Take the white leaves of head of endive ; wash and 
lay in a dish, and serve with a dressing made of the yelk of 
one egg, salt, pepper, four table-spoonfuls of salad oil and 
one of vinegar. _ 

English Plum Pudding.— One half a large cup of suet 
chopped fine, mixed in same quantity of flour with one salt- 
spoonful of salt ; one half cupful of English currants, one half 
cupful seeded raisins, citron, one half teaspoonful each cinna- 
mon and allspice, one fourth teaspoonful of cloves and nut- 
mag each; mix these together in bowl, press hollow place in 
center, break in one egg, beat light with spoon, add milk to 
make stiff batter, a little stiff er than for fruit cake. Have 
a pudding-bag about size of five-cent salt- bag, put on plate 
in kettle of boiling water and boil an hour and a half, turn- 
ing several times and filling up with boiling water if neces- 
sary. This recipe is never known to fail, and was given me 
by an English woman, who says that American plum 
pudding, with molasses and soda, is very far from the Eng- 
lish ideal plum pudding. This should be served with a rich, 
sweet sauce: Take a pint of boiling water, add a table- 
spoonful butter, one heaping teaspoonful of corn starch, and 
two thirds cup of sugar, saltspoonful salt; boil till it thickens 
and add a little less than a gill of sherry wine. Serve hot. 

Cheese Canapees. —With a large cake-cutter, cut out cir- 
cles of bread half an inch thick ; cut them again so as to 
make crescent, shaped pieces ; fry in butter to a light brown ; 
grate some cheese and put one teaspoonful on each piece of 
bread, a little pepper and salt, and brown quickly in a 
hot oven, and serve at once. 

Co fee.— Take four heaping table-spoonfuls of coffee,— best 
Mocha and Java, in equal parts,— one fourth of a beaten egg, 
and a little cold water ; beat well ; put in the coffee-pot and 
pour on it five cups, of the size to be used, of boiling water; 
let it boil three minutes and serve at once, putting block 
sugar and cream, if used, in the cup before pouring in 
coffee. Intended for small cups. 



104 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

BILL OF FARE NO. 59. 

Cream Soup. 

Canton of Veal. 

Potato Salad. Cream Potatoes. 

Glazed Parsnips. 

Orange Pudding. 

Cerraline Muffins and Coffee. 

COST. 

Cream soup, 20 cents; potato salad, 7 cents; cream pota- 
toes, 9 cents ; glazed parsnips, 5 cents ; canton of veal, 32 
cents; orange pudding, 17 cents; cerraline muffins, 5 cents; 
coffee, 5 cents. Total $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Cream Soup.— Three potatoes, 2 cents; three onions, 2 
cents; one parsnip, 1 cent; on quart milk, 6 cents; one 
quarter cupful of rice, 2 cents; butter, 2 cents ; one cupful 
of cream, 5 cents. Total, 20 cents. 

One teacupful of chopped potato, one teacupful of chopped 
onion, one grated parsnip, one teaspoonful of pepper. 
Place in kettle with one quart of cold water, and cook until 
very soft. Press all through a colander and return to ket- 
tle. Add one teaspoonful of salt, one quart of milk, one tea- 
cupful of hot boiled rice in which has been stirred a piece of 
butter the size of an egg. Let contents of kettle simmer 
five minutes, then add one teacupful of sweet cream and 
serve at once. 

Canton of Veal— Two pounds of veal, 22 cents; bread, 1 
cent; onion, one cent; one ounce of butter, 2 cents; one egg, 
2 cents ; herbs and pork, 4 cents. Total, 32 cents. 

Make what is called a pocket in a two-pound breast of 
veal, by cutting the flesh of the upper side free from the 
breast bones, and taking care to have three outer sides of 
the veal whole, so it will held the dressing. Prepare a 
layer of scraps of vegetables, herbs, and pork in a dripping- 
pan, then stuff the veal w T ith farcemeat made by steeping 
four ounces of bread in cold water. Next, chop one ounce 
of onion, and fry it yellow in one ounce of butter. Wring 
the bread dry on a clean towel and add it to the butter and 
onion. Season it with one teaspoonful of salt, quarter of a 
spoonful of pepper, and powered thyme or mixed spices, and 
stir till scalding hot; then remove from the fire, stir in the 
yelk of one egg. and stuff the breast of veal with it. Sew up 
the opening, lay in on the vegetables in dripping-pan, and 
put three or four slices of pork on the top, season with a 
teaspoonful of salt and some pepper, and bake in a moderate 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 105 

oven (about one hour) till thoroughly done. Serve with 
brown gravy made by rubbing the vegetables and dripping 
in the pan through a sieve, adding a little boiling water, 
and seasoning to taste. 

Potato Salad.— Four potatoes, 2 cents; one onion, 1 cent; 
vinegar and butter, 4 cents. Total, 7 cents. 

Boil four potatoes and let them stand until cold; then slice 
quite thin; then peel and slice thin one onion (small). Mix 
them together in a salad dish and pour over them the fol- 
fo wing dressing: Stir together in a cup one saltspoonful of 
salt, quarter of a saltspoonful of pepper, one table-spoonful 
of vinegar and three of butter. 

Cream Potatoes.— Five potatoes, 4 cents; butter, 3 cents; 
one quarter cupful of cream, 2 cents. Total, 9 cents. 

Pare five potatoes, put them into boiling water with a 
little salt, and boil till done ; remove and drain off all the 
water ; then put them in a dish and mash very smooth ; add 
three table-spoonfuls of butter, a little salt, and one fourth 
of a cup of cream. Beat all together, then rut in a dish, 
sprinkle a little pepper on top, and serve hot. 

Glazed, Parsnips. —Three parsnips, 2 cents; one egg, 2 
cents; two crackers, 1 cent. Total, 5 cents. 

Slice three boiled parsnips in lengthwise slices; season 
with salt and pepper; dip in beaten egg, then in cracker 
crumbs. Fry a deep, rich brown, and serve hot. 

Orange Pudding.— Three oranges, 6 cents; one cupful of 
sugar, 3 cents ; one spoonful of corn starch, 1 cents ; one pint 
of milk, 3 cents; two eggs, 4 cents. Total, 17 cents. 

Peel and cut three oranges into thin slices, taking out the 
seeds; pour over them a coffee-cupful of sugar; let a pint of 
milk get boiling hot by setting it in a pot of boiling water ; 
add the yelk of two eggs well beaten, one table-spoonful of 
corn starch made smooth with a little cold milk; stir all the 
time; as soon as thickened, pour over the fruit; beat the 
whites to a stiff froth, adding a table-spoonful of sugar, and 
spread over the top for frosting. Set in the oven a few min- 
utes to harden ; eat cold or hot. 

Peaches or other fruit can be substituted in their season 
for oranges. 

Cerraline Muffins. — One cupful cerraline, 1 cent; one 
cupful of flour, 1 cent; one egg, 2 cents; baking-powder 
and sugar, 1 cent. Total, 5 cents. 

One cupful of cerraline, one cupful of flour, one egg, one 
heaping teaspoonf ul of baking-powder, half a teaspoonful of 
salt, and about three teaspoonful s of sugar. Mix the flour, 
cerraline, and baking-powder together thoroughly; put in 
the egg ; then mix with milk or water ; bake in gem pans in 
a. medium hot oven, Serve hot, 



106 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

Coffee. — Two ounces of Java coffee; put in the coffee-pot; 
and pour over it a little cold water, and let it come to a boil, 
then add the white of the egg and shell left from canton of 
veal; add three cupfuls of boiling water also. Serve with 
cream saved from cream potatoes. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 60. 

Toad-in-the-Hole. 

Mashed Potatoes and Turnips. 

Boiled Onions. Pickles. 

Corn Bread. Butter. 

Baked Apple Dumplings, with Dressing. 

Blanc-mange. Oranges. 

COST. 

Lamb chops, 25 cents ; potatoes, 6 cents ; turnips, 4 cents ; 
onions, 6 cents; pickles, 2 cents; bread, 5 cents; butter, 7 
cents ; apples, 6 cents ; flour, 5 cents ; sugar, 4 cents ; corn 
starch, 2 cents; two eggs, 4 cents; three pints of milk, 9 
cents ; oranges, 15 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Toad-in-the-Hole. — Mix one pint of flour and one egg with 
milk enough to form a batter (as for batter- cakes), add a 
little salt, grease dish well with butter. Put in the lamb 
chops, season. with pepper, and salt, add a little water, 
Pour batter over it. Then bake a beautiful brown. 

Mashed Potatoes and Turnips.— First wash and pare 
them. Then put on the turnips in hot water and let boil a 
while until partly done, adding salt to the water; then add 
the potatoes; when done, mash together until smooth, and 
serve in covered dish. 

Boiled Onions. — Make ready the onions. Put on to boil 
in hot water enough to cover them, adding a little salt; 
boil one hour. Drain off the water, turn into dish, and, just 
before serving, remove cover, add a small piece of butter 
and sprinkle with pepper. 

Corn Bread. — To three table-spoonfuls of flour, add a 
heaping half teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little milk ; 
then gradually stir in about a half pint of water; add 
enough yellow meal to make a stiff batter; add a little salt, 
and enough molasses to sweeten well (can be made without 
it if preferred). Bake in a hot oven. 

Baked Apple Dumplings with Dressing.— First pare and 
core the apples for crust. Three pints of flour ; rub through 



OffE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 107 

a table-spooDful of lard, also a pinch of salt and two heap- 
ing teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Wet up in a soft dough ; 
roll out, cut in three-corner-shaped pieces; place apples in 
centre; pinch up ends of dough together well. Place in a 
pan four or five inches deen, so as not to touch each other. 
Pour over them hot water, just leaving the top of dumplings 
uncovered. Add a small teacupful of sugar and a table- 
spoonful of butter to pan, then place in a good oven. 
They will require about an hour to cook. When done, dish 
up the dumplings on a platter, and the liquid in sauce boat 
for dressing. 

Blanc mange. — To a quart of nearly boiling milk add 
two and a half good table-spoonfuls of corn starch mixed 
smooth with a little cold milk, a well-beaten egg, a table- 
spoonful of sugar, a little extract of vanilla. Stir constantly 
until it boils and is very smooth. Boil a few minutes. 
Pour out in a deep round dish ; when cold, turn over on a 
plate, and serve. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 61. 

SOUP. 

Chicken Soup, with Rice. 

MEAT. 

Roast Chicken and one Pound of Veal. 

VEGETABLES. 

Mashed White Potatoes. Turnips. 

Pickles. Celery. Bread. Butter. 

DESSERT. 

Tapioca Pudding. Coffee 

COST. 

Rice, 4 cents; carrot, 1 cent; chicken, 30 cents; veal, 16 
cents; potatoes, 4 cents; turnips, 3 cents; pickles, 4 cents; 
celery, 4 cents; bread, 3 cents; butter, 11 cents; tapioca, 5 
cents ; egg, 3 cents ; sugar, 2 cents ; coffee, 10 cents. Total, 

$1. 

PREPARATION. 

Soup.— Draw the chicken and put it in the pot and cover 
w T ith water. Boil until tender. Then take the chicken out 
and add a cup of rice, one grated carrot, and some celery 
leaves cut fine, for the soup. 

Roast Chicken.— Put the chicken in a pan, put it in the 
oven; pour over it a little boiling water with some of the 
butter melted in it; baste several times. When a golden 
brown, it is ready for the table. 



108 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

Veal Cutlets.— Take a table-spoonful of the butter, put it 
in the frying-pan, and, when hot, put the veal in and fry 
until tender. 

Mashed Potatoes.— Boil the potatoes until done, then pour 
the water off and mash with a fork ; that makes your po- 
tatoes light. 

Mashed Turnips.— Boil the turnips until done; pour the 
water off, and mash with a ladle. 

Tapioca Pudding.— One half cupful of tapioca, soaked in 
one cupful of water for two hours. Beat one egg until 
light, mix with tapioca. Sweeten to taste, and bake in an 
oven twenty minutes. 

Coffee. — Two table-spoonfuls of coffee covered with a little 
cold water. Put the egg-shell in and pour over it a pint of 
boiling water ; let it come to a boil ; strain as you put it in 
the coffee-pot, and it is ready for the table. Coffee, 6 cents ; 
milk, 2 cents ; sugar, 2 cents. Total 10 cents for the coffee. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 62. 

SOUP. 

Green Pea Soup. 

FISH. 

Boiled Haddock, Egg Sauce. 

POULTRY. 

Smothered Chic 1 en and Rice. 

VEGETABLES. 

Corn and Tomatoes. Potato Cream. 

Celery Salad. 

DESSERT. 

Floating Island. 

Coffee. 

Bread. Butter 

COST. 

Soup, 8 cents; fish, 12 cents; chicken, 30 cents; bread 
and butter, 9 cents ; rice, 2 cents ; corn, 5 cents ; tomatoes, 
6 cents; potatoes, 3 cents; coffee, 4 cents; celery, 5 cents; 
cabbage, 2 cents; eggs, 8 cents; milk (for floating island), 3 
cents; currant jelly, 3 cents. Total, $1. - 

PREPARATION. 

Green Pea Soup.— One half can of green peas warmed and 
rubbed through a strainer. When nearly all rubbed 
through, pour a pint of hot milk through the strainer to 
wash off every part of the pulp. Put the pulp and milk on 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 10& 

to boil; when boiling, thicken with one table-spoonful of 
butter and one half table-spoonful of flour, worked to- 
gether; add one half teaspoonful of salt, one scant teaspoon- 
ful of sugar, and a dash of white pepper. 

Boiled Haddock.— After cleaning, put it over the fire in 
sufficient cold water to cover it, with a handful of salt. 
Boil it until a fin can easily be pulled out ; then serve with 
egg sauce. 

Egg Sauce.— Boil one egg hard; remove the shell and cut 
it in small dice ; put over the fire half a table-spoonful each 
of butter and flour, and stir them together until they bub- 
ble ; then gradually stir in a half pint of boiling water (and 
stirring quite smoothly) ; then season with salt, pepper, and 
very little nutmeg (if some persons do not prefer nutmeg, 
it is good without it). Let it boil for a moment; add the 
chopped egg to it and serve it with the boiled haddock. 

Smothered Chicken. — Dress your chicken, wash, and let 
it stand in water half an hour to make it white. Put into 
a baking-pan — first cutting it open at the back ; sprinkle 
salt and pepper over it, and put a lump of butter here and 
there; then cover tightly with another pan the same size, 
- and bake one hour. Baste often with butter. A delicious 
dish. Boil the giblets, and chop, and put in gravy. Serve 
in gravy bowl. 

Rice. — Wash half cupful of rice, and boil it until the 
grains are soft; do not stir it. When done, uncover and 
let the steam escape ; then put it on the edge of platter with 
the chicken, in spoonfuls. 

Corn and Tomatoes. — Take half a can of corn and half a 
> can of tomatoes ; after they have been stewed separately 
and seasoned with butter, sugar, salt, and pepper, put them 
in a baking-dish and serve hot. 

Potato Cream.— Take four potatoes, boil, and mash, and 
season. Add to it the well-beaten white of one egg (reserv- 
ing the yelk for the salad) ; set in the oven till light and 
puffy. Serve. 

Celery Salad.— One third head of cabbage, half a bunch 
of celery, chopped fine. Take half a cupful of vinegar, a 
small lump of butter, yelk of one egg, half a teaspoonful of 
mustard, salt, pepper, and one teaspoonful of sugar. Mix 
these well ; put the mixture on the stove and heat until it 
thickens, stirring all the time. When cold, pour over the 
salad. 

Floating Island.— One pint of milk, two eggs (yelks and 
whites beaten separately), two table-spoonfuls of sugar; 
flavor with vanilla; one quarter cupful of currant jelly. 
Heat milk to scalding, but not boiling. Beat the yelks, stir 
into them the sugar, and pour upon them, gradually, the 



110 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

hot milk. Return to saucepan and boil until it begins to 
thicken. When cool, flavor and pour into a glass dish. 
Heap upon the top meringue of whites whipped until you 
can cut it, into which you have beaten the jelly, a teaspoon- 
ful at a time. 

Coffee.— Three table-spoonfuls of coffee, ground fine. 
Make in a strainer coffee-pot ; pour four large cups of boiling 
water over the coffee. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 63. 

Veal Cutlets. 

Potato Puffs. 

Hot-slaw. Canned Corn. 

Bread. 

Lemon Pie. Coffee. 

COST. 

Veal cutlets, 37 cents; potato puff, 10 cents: hot-slaw, 10 
cents; canned corn, 15 cents; bread, 5 cents; lemon pie, 18 
cents; coffee, 5 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Veal Cutlets. — Fry slow, brown them nicely. Beat three 
eggs well, roll four crackers fine. When the veal is well 
done, dip in the egg, tlien in the cracker-dust; return to 
frying-pan and brown them a golden brown, aod serve. 

Potato Puff. — Two cupfuls of cold mashed potatoes, two 
eggs, one half cupful of milk, one table-spoonful of butter 
(scant). Beat potato until free from lumps, whip the eggs 
in lightly, then milk and butter, and season. Bake in a 
buttered dish. 

Hot-slaw. — Put in a saucepan one half cupful of vinegar, 
one half teaspoonf ul of salt, and some of pepper ; one well- 
beaten egg, one table-spoonful of butter, and one scant table- 
spoonful of sugar. Stir well ; when it thickens, put in some 
cabbage shaved fine, and cook until tender. Stir constantly 
to keep from burning. 

Canned Corn. —One can of corn, one quart of milk; sea- 
son with pepper and a small lump of butter. 

Lemon Pie. — The yelks of three eggs, one cupful of pul- 
verized sugar, one and one quarter cupfuls of milk, juice of 
two lemons, a little salt; mix well and bake. Then take the 
whites of the eggs, add a little pulverized sugar, beat them 
well together, then spread over the top of the pie and brown 
in the oven. 

Coffee. — One half cupful of coffee ; tie it in a piece of cheese 
cloth ; put in the coffee-pot also the shells of the eggs you 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. Ill 

have used ; have the water boiling ; pour on your coffee ; let 
it stand where it will keep hot, but not boil, about ten 
minutes. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 64. 

Vegetable Soup, with Crackers. 
Steak, with Dressed Potatoes, Macaroni, and Stringed 

Beans. 

Lobster Salad, with French Dressing. 

Bread and Butter. 

Dessert, Blanc Mange. 

Black Coffee. 

(Cafe Noir.) 

COST. 

Soup, 10 cents; crackers, 2 cents; steak, 30 cents (two 
pounds at 15 cents a pound) ; one quart of stringed beans, 7 
cents; one fourth of a package of macaroni, 3 cents; pota- 
toes, 3 cents ; bread and butter, 6 cents ; one half can of lob- 
ster, 9 cents ; one head of lettuce, 5 cents ; dressing, 9 cent ; 
blanc mange, 8 cents ; coffee, 3 cents ; milk, 3 cents ; cheese 
and spices, 2 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Soup.— Take soup meat and bones and wash in cold 
water, put into a kettle with five pints of water, let it boil 
slowly for four hours, then take off and strain ; skim off all 
the fat, then take and pare a small parsnip, turnip, carrot, 
and one onion, and chop fine with a little celery and parsley, 
then add to the broth and boil about one hour and a haft ; 
take off and season with pepper and salt to taste and serve. 

Steak. — Take two pounds of sirloin steak cut one inch 
thick, broil it over a small fire till the juice conies out, and 
season with salt and pepper, and spread with butter and 
serve. 

Dressed Potatoes.— Select six large, smooth potatoes, 
wash and bake in a slow oven, and, when done, cut off the 
tops and hollow out with a teaspoon, then mash and add a 
half cupful of milk, and a table-spoonful of butter, with a 
little salt, and beat till creamy; then put back in the skins 
and put them in a small bread-pan, set them in the oven 
and brown. 

Macaroni.— One quarter of a package of Italian macaroni, 
and break it in small pieces, boil it in water, with a little 
salt, for one hour; drain off the water; take a small baking 
dish, put one layer of macaroni and one of grated cheese, so 



112 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

continue until the dish is filled, then pour on milk enough 
to cover the whole ; put a little butter, grated cheese, and 
some pounded zwieback on top, put it in the oven and 
brown. 

Stringed Beans. — Take one quart of stringed beans, string 
and cut in small pieces and wash in cold water. Boil three 
quarters of an hour, or till tender, drain off the water, sea- 
son with salt, pepper and butter. 

Lobster Salad.— One head of nice lettuce; wash and soak 
in cold water until fresh and crisp ; take half a can of lob- 
ster, cut in small pieces. 

Boiled French Dressing. — Beat one egg lightly; take half 
a saltspoonful of sugar, one of salt, one of cayenne pepper, 
one of mustard; put into a small saucepan; mix thoroughly 
with one table-spoonful of vinegar; then add the beaten 
egg and one table-spoonful of butter and three more table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar ; put in a double boiler and stir until it 
boils ; when cold add two table-spoonfuls of cream or con- 
densed milk, and stir until smooth and creamy. 

Blanc Mange. — Take one third of a small box of gelatine, 
soak in a pint of milk for ten minutes, sweeten to suit the 
taste and flavor with a teaspoonf ul of vanilla extract ; after 
soaking, place over the fire and stir till the gelatine and 
sugar are dissolved ; strain next, and when nearly cold stir 
it well and pour it into a mold ; the mold should first be wet 
with cold water to prevent it from sticking; when cold, 
turn it on a dish and serve. 

Coffee.— Take four table- spoonfuls of ground Mocha and 
Java coffee, put in a cup and mix with a little egg and cold 
water; put it in a pot and add five cupfuls of boiling water; 
let it boil slowly for fifteen minutes ; clear and serve. 



BILL OF FAKE NO. 65. 

Vegetable Soup. 
Eoast Chicken. 
White Potatoes. Sweet Potatoes. 

Stewed Tomatoes. Boiled Onions. 

Cranberries. Celery c 

Lemon Pie. Cheese. 

Coffee. 

COST. 

Soup, 8 cents; chicken, 30 cents; white potatoes, 3 cents; 
sweet potatoes, 3 cents; tomatoes, one half can, 5 cents; 
onions, 3 cents | cranberries, 6 cents; celery , 4 cents ; bread. 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 113 

10 cents; lemon pie, 8 cents; butter, 4 cents; coffee, 2 
cents : milk, cheese, 3 cents ; 3 cents ; sugar, 8 cents. Total, 

II. 

PREPARATION. 

Soup. —Put five cents' worth of beef on to simmer in two 
quarts of cold water; boil slowly; add pepper, salt, one car- 
rot, one turnip, one potato, one onion. A sprig of thyme 
and parsely (do not omit the thyme), and two sticks of mac- 
aroni. 

Boast Chicken.— Carefully singe the fowl with white 
paper, wipe it thoroughly with a cloth, draw it ; preserve 
the liver and gizzard and be particular not to break the 
gall bag, as no washing will remove the bitter taste it im- 
parts ; wash it inside well, wipe it with a dry cloth, then 
salt and pepper it. Dressing for same : Take bread crumbs 
made moist with cold water, piece of butter, pepper and salt, 
a little thyme; fill chicken, and sew tightly to keep the dress- 
ing in. Baste often to make it juicy. 

White Potatoes.— Boil until done, drain and whip lightly, 
add a little milk, butter, and salt. 

Sweet Potatoes.— Boil and, when done, clean off skin and 
put in the oven to brown very lightly. 

Onions.— Boil until done, pour off water, then add a little 
milk, salt, pepper, butter, and boil a minute, when they 
will be ready to serve. 

Tomatoes.— Stew a few minutes and add salt, pepper to 
taste, thicken with cracker dust. 

Cranberries.— Take pint cranberries, put on cup of cold 
water, stew until tender, then add six ounces sugar, stew a 
few minutes, then pour in mold. 

Celery.— Wash and separate, and put in celery-glass for 
table use. 

Lemon Pie.— One tablespoonful of corn starch, wet and 
made even with cold water; then pour on cup of boiling 
water, stir to make smooth and clear; then add one cupful of 
sugar, the grated rind and juice of one lemon, beaten yelks 
of two eggs, small pi^ce of butter ; pour in paste, and bake. 
When done, whip the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, add 
a teaspoonful of sugar, spread over the top, and put in oven 
to brown. 

Paste for Pie— One half cupful flour, table-spoonful of lard, 
a pinch of salt, water enough to moisten in a dough. Roll out 
for under crust. 

Coffee.— One table-spoonful to each person ; prepare with, 
egg, mix and draw in cold water. Boil only a minute. 



114 ONE HUNDRED PEIZE DINNERS. 

BILL OF FARE NO. 66. 

SOUP. 

Black Bean. 

FISH. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

ROTI. 

Sirlorn of Pork. Plum Jelly. 

Dressing, with Brown Sauce. 

VEGETABLES. 

Mashed Potatoes. Squash. 

Celery. 

SALAD. 

Cabbage, a la Creme. 

DESSERT. 

Orange Souffle. Grapes. 
Coffee. 

COST. 

Soup, 7 cents? two pounds pork, 28 cents; one pint 
oysters, 15 cents; jelly, 4 cents; potatoes, 2 cents; cabbage, 

2 cents ; two pounds squash, 4 cents ; bread, 6 cents ; coffee, 

3 cents; sugar, 2 cents; butter, 4 cents; scant pint milk, 2 
cents? souffle, 11 cents; celery, 5 cents; grapes, 5 cents. 
Total,' $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Black Bean Soup.— Take three-quarters of a pound of 
beef, put into one quart of water and boil down to stock. 
Put one-half cupful of black beans to soak over night; put 
them into fresh water next morning, and boil until soft 
enough to strain through a sieve ; then add to the stock, 
and boil for two hours; salt and pepper to taste. Cut one 
small lemon into small pieces, and add just before serving. 

Roast of Pork— Put the pork into the dripper and sprinkle 
with pepper and salt; add a little boiling water and place in 
the oven; baste and turn often; bake slowly until tender. 

Dressing. — Three cupfuls of fine bread crumbs moistened 
with water; season to taste with butter, salt, pepper, and 
finely powdered sage. Place in the dripper when the meat 
is about half done. Serve in a separate dish. 

Brown Sauce.— After removing the meat and dressing, 
make the sauce by thickening the liquor remaining in the 
dripper, after pouring off the grease, with a little flour 
rubbed smooth by mixing with a little cold water. Season 
to taste. 

Scalloped Oysters.— Line a pudding-dish with a layer of 
cracker-dust, a layer of oysters seasoned with butter, 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 11,7 

pepper, and salt, moistened with liquor from oysters. Repeat 
with alternate layers of cracker-dust and oysters, having 
cracker- dust on top. Bake slowly for about thirty minutes. 

Mashed Potatoes. — Peel and boil, in salted water until soft, 
one quart of potatoes. Season and mash, beating to a cream. 

Squash. — Peel and cut into small pieces; boil until soft; 
drain, mash smooth and work in butter, pepper, and salt. 
Mound in a deep dish. 

Cabbage.— Cut the cabbage fine, as for slaw; put into a 
ste wpan, cover with water and cook until tender ; then drain 
off the water and season with butter, pepper, and salt; 
add half a cup of rich milk (cream is better). Leave on 
stove to simmer a few moments before serving. 

Celery. — Wash and trim, and place in a cool place until 
served. 

Orange Souffle. — Two sour oranges peeled and sliced; 
sprinkle one half cupful sugar over them. For custards : Two 
table-spoonfuls of corn starch, yelks of two eggs, one pint of 
milk, a little sugar and salt. Heat the milk scalding hot; 
add the corn starch dissolved in a little milk, with the beaten 
yelks of the eggs, the sugar, and salt. Put alternate layers 
of the orange and custard in the pudding-dish, and make a 
meringue of the whites of the eggs and pour over the same. 
Brown slightly in an oven and serve cold. 

Coffee. — Moisten four tablespoonsful of ground coffee with 
a little of the white of an egg ; add a pint of cold water. Place 
on stove and allow it to gradually come to a boiling-point; 
then add sufficient boiling water to make four cups. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 67. 

White Soup (Medford). 

Forcemeat Balls. 

Vienna Rolls. Roll of Beef. 

Claret-wine Jelly. 

Brussels Sprouts. 

Browned White Potatoes. 

Sweet Potato Points. 

Oyster Patties. Chicken Salad. 

Bread Sandwiches. 

Eve's Plum Pudding. 

Wine Sauce. 

Coffee. Cheese. 

COST. 

Raisins, apples, suet, oil, lard, flour, sugar, pork, cheese, 
sherry wine, 15 cents; celery, Brussels sprouts, lettuce,. 



I 1 6 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

potatoes, bread, 20 cents ; wine jelly, coffee, 10 cents ; eggs, 
9 cents : half knuckle of veal, 5 cents ; two pounds of beef, 20 
cents ; half pint oysters, 6 cents ; part of chicken, 15 cents. 
Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

White Soup (Medford).—Fut part of a knuckle of veal, 
with small onion chopped fine, to boil with just water to 
cover. When it boils, skim carefully ; let it simmer, closely 
covered, two hours or more. Then strain, add a little pepper 
(red and white), salt to taste, and add a little mace; boil ten 
minutes, then add a cupful of milk in which has been blend- 
ed a teaspoonful of flour, also small bit of butter ; boil up 
once and serve with. 

Force-meat Balls.— Large spoonful of salt pork, chopped 
very fine; three table -spoonfuls of veal from knuckle, 
chopped very fine; two table-spoonfuls of fine bread crumbs, 
table-spoonful of cream, pinch of salt, dash of red pepper, a 
little summer savory, half of well-beaten egg; mix well 
together, make in smooth round balls size of marbles ; roll 
in egg and cracker-dust. Fry good brown in deep lard, lay 
in soup-tureen and pour soup over while hot. 

Beefsteak Stuffed.— Two pounds of thick steak from upper 
side of round. Cupful of bread crumbs well seasoned with 

Eepper, salt, and half an onion (if liked) chopped fine, or any 
erb; a little butter. Roll the stuffing up in the steak. 
Bind a piece of twine around it. Secure the ends of the roll. 
Have ready a kettle in which a slice of pork and a little fat 
of beef have been fried crisp. Take out the pork and put in 
the roll, turning it until well browned. Put in half a pint 
of water and a little salt. Cover closely and boil two hours 
slowly. Add more water if too dry. Unwind the string 
carefully, lay the roll in a hot dish, thicken the gravy if 
necessary, add a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce and 
pour over the roll. To be cut in slices through the roll. 
It is equally nice heated over the next day. 

Claret-ivine Jelly.— Quarter box of gelatine; soak in tea- 
cupful of warm water two hours; then add teacupful of 
sugar; let boil up once, strain, and add two and a half tea- 
cupfuls of claret wine. Put on ice. Make several hours before 
needed. Break up and put in fancy glass dish. Looks 
pretty and is very appetizing. 

Brussels Sprouts.— Buy 5 cents' worth of sprouts. Boil 
in salted water until tender; put in small dish with little 
drawn butter sauce, if you choose, with a few slices of 
lemon on the top. 

Browned Wfiite Potatoes.— Two good-sized white potatoes, 
boiled ; when cold, peel and slice in three parts, spread with 



OKE HtTNDRED PRIZE DIKNERS. ll? 

butter, sprinkle with salt and flour, and brown quickly. Put 
around beef -dish after roll and gravy have been placed in 
center. 

Sweet Potato Points.— Three good-sized sweet potatoes; 
boil with skins on, peel, mash fine, season with salt, pepper, 
and bit of red pepper; little butter and just a dash of milk. 
Grease a white paper and put in small dripping-pan; divide 
potato in six equal parts, form in little pyramids, rub over 
with little well-beaten egg, brown in quick oven, serve on 
napkin in oval dish with little parsley around. 

Oyster Patties. — Piece of butter size of walnut, lard size 
of an egg, pinch of salt, quarter teaspoonf ul of baking-power, 
three table-spoonfuls of iced water, flour to roll thin. Line 
four small round tins. Then cut four covers size of little tin 
and put on flat tin. Cut a star in each, so they will not get 
out of shape. Strain and look over half pint of oysters; put 
them to boil with small bit of butter, pinch of salt, little 
white and red pepper. Thicken with little flour. 

Have four plates hot, put shell in each, fill with oysters, 
put on cover and serve as hot as possible. 

Chicken Salad. — Take the breast, back, neck, and feet of 
a chicken; cover with water and boil until tender; then add 
salt and a pinch of red and white pepper. Throw in some 
of the green of the celery. Let the chicken boil nearly dry. 
When perfectly cold, cut the breast into small dice. Can 
add a little veal if you have it, from the knuckle. Cut all 
of the white of one head of celery into little pieces. Boil 
one egg twenty minutes. When cold, chop in a bowl. Pinch 
of salt and pepper, two table spoonfuls of oil or melted but- 
ter, teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, a few capers, three 
table spoonfuls of vinegar; mix all well and lightly together. 
Put lettuce-leaves on small oval dish. Heap salad in center. 
Pour over mayonnaise sauce, made the same as rule in No. 
8 dinner for lettuce salad. 

Eve's Christmas Pudding.— Cup of bread crumbs, cup of 
chopped sour apples, cup of chopped suet, two well-beaten 
eggs, little nutmeg, allspice, cloves, and half a teaspoonful 
of cinnamon. Beat the eggs, add the sugar, suet, etc. ; mix 
thoroughly; put in buttered mould and boil about three 
hours. 

Wine Sauce.— "Hall a cupful of brown sugar, small bit of 
butter, a little of all kinds of spice, small glassful of cooking- 
sherry, cupful of boiling water, teaspoonful of flour to 
thicken it. Then add sugar, spice, and wine. 

Bread.— Buy two Vienna rolls (horseshoe), cut in half, and 
put one half at each plate on napkin. 

With salad pass few thin slices of home-made bread that 



118 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

have been slightly buttered and cut diamond-shape— 
doubled, of course. 

Coffee. — As usually made. 

Cheese.— & little plate with small pieces, served with 
dessert. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 68. 

Beefsteak. 

Stuffed Potatoes. Baked Turnips. 

Cabbage, with Dressing. 

Graham Bread. Parker House Rolls. 

Butter. 

Cocoanut Pudding. Lemon Pie. Grapes. 

Coffee. 

COST. 

Beefsteak, 49 cents ; stuffed potatoes, 4 cents ; baked tur- 
nips, 5 cents ; cabbage, with dressing, 5 cents ; graham bread, 
5 cents ; Parker House rolls, 5 cents ; butter, 6 cents ; cocoa- 
nut pudding, 9 cents; lemon pie, 8 cents; grapes, 5 cents; 
coffee, 8 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Beefsteak.— Hub the bars of the gridiron smooth, then 
grease lightly, lay on sirloin steak. Put gridiron over a hot 
fire. Turn frequently, so it will not burn, until done to the 
required degree. To ascertain this, do not cut it, but test it 
by pressing the tips of the fingers upon it. If, after the 
pressure is removed, it springs up, it is done rare. If it re- 
mains heavy and solid, it is well done. Chop a table-spoon- 
ful of parsley fine, mix thoroughly with one ounce of butter, 
a very little salt and pepper. Pour this over the steak, and 
garnish it with sliced lemon and parsley. 

Stuffed Potatoes.— Wash the potatoes, and bake only till 
they begin to soften — not more than fifteen minutes. Cut 
off one end, scoop out the inside with a teaspoon into a 
sauce-pan containing two ounces of butter, one saltspoon- 
ful of white pepper, one teaspoonful of salt, and two ounces 
of grated Parmesan cheese. Stir all these over the fire till 
they are scalding hot, then fill the potato-skins with the 
mixture. Put on the ends, press the potatoes gently into 
shape. Finish baking them iu the oven, and serve them on 
a hot dish. 

Baked Turnips. — Pare and slice, boil until tender. Drain. 
Make a white sauce by stirring over the fire one ounce of 
butter and one ounce of flour until they bubble. Stir in 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 110 

gradually half a pint of boiling water ; season with one salt- 
spoonful of pepper. Put the turnips into a baking-dish 
suitable to send to the table. Pour the sauce over them. 
Dust thickly with bread crumbs and seasoning; brown in a 
quick oven. 

Dressing for Cabbage.— Put half a cupful of vinegar in one 
saucepan, and half a cupful of milk in another. When the 
vinegar is hot, add one table-spoonful of butter, and salt and 
pepper to taste. Let all come to boiling-point, and then add 
the finely chopped cabbage. Set the pan on the range where 
it will not boil, but be kept hot. When the milk is hot, mix 
with one well-beaten egg, and set it on the fire ; stir until it 
thickens. Pour the hot milk and egg over the cabbage. 

Graham Bread. — Prepare a sponge as for white bread, us- 
ing potatoes and white flour. My rule is, to take out a cer- 
tain quantity of the rising sponge on baking-day and set it 
aside for brown-bread. Put in a tray two parts graham 
flour, one part of white flour, and to every quart of this 
allow a handful of Indian meal with a teaspoonful of salt. 
Wet this up with the sponge, and, when it is mixed, add for 
a loaf of fair size half a tea cupful of molasses. The dough 
should be very soft. If there is not enough of the sponge to 
reduce it to the desired consistency, add a little blood-warm 
water. Knead it diligently and long; it will not rise so rap- 
idly as the white flour, having more body to carry. Let it 
take its time ; make into round, comfortable loaves, and set 
down again for the second rising. When you have again 
kneaded it, bake steadily, taking care it does not burn, and 
do not cut while hot. The result will well repay you for 
your trouble. It will take longer to bake than white bread. 
Brown flour should not be sifted. 

Parker House Rolls. — Rub one table spoonful of lard into 
two quarts of flour. Scald one pint of milk; let it cool. 
Then add half a cupful 0/ yeast and a very little sugar, and 
pour into the middle of the flour without stirring. Let it 
stand over night. In the morning knead well, and set in a 
warm place until warm ; knead again, and roll out half an 
inch thick. Cut with biscuit-cutter. 

Cocoanut Pudding. — One pint rich milk, two tablespoon- 
fuls corn starch, whites four eggs, one half cupful of sugar, 
a little salt. Put the milk over the fire, and, when boiling, 
add the corn starch wet with a little cold milk ; then add 
the sugar, stirring constantly until it makes a smoothpaste. 
Then take from the fire, and stir in the beaten eggs. Flavor 
with vanilla, and when slightly cooled add half a cupful of 
cocoanut. Pour into a mold; set in a cold place. Serve 
with soft custard. 

Lemon Pie.— One grated lemon with juice, one cupful of 



120 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

sugar, two table-spoonfuls of flour, yelks of two eggs. Mix 
the flour with a little cold water very smooth. Beat the 
eggs, add the lemon, sugar, and boiling water to fill one pie. 
Make with one crust. When baked, frost with the whites 
of the eggs. 

Coffee.— Allow to each person a table-spoonful of ground 
coffee. Pour on as much boiling water as will allow to each 
a cupful of the decoction. It should be prepared just before 
using, then diluted with boiled milk or cream. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 69. 

SOUP. 

Bouillon. 

MEATS. 

Eoast Loin of Pork with Carrots and Parsnips. 

Veal Heart, Stuffed, Baked with Potatoes. 

Beets, with Sauce. Hot-slaw. 

Apple Quarters. 

Bread. Butter. 

DESSERT. 

Pumpkin Pie. Sea Foam. 

Coffee. 

COST. 

Beef and bone, each one half pound, 10 cents ; loin of pork, 
25 cents; veal heart, 10 cents; potatoes, 3 cents; carrots, 3 
cents; parsnips, 3 cents; beets, 4 cents; cabbage, 4 cents; 
apples, 3 cents; pumpkin, 3 cents; milk, 2 cents; eggs, 8 
cents; flour, 2 cents; lard, 2 cents; lemons, 3 cents; sugar, 
2 cents; gelatine, 4 cents; bread, 3 cents; butter, 3 cents; 
coffee, 3 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Bouillon Soup.— Take one half pound of beef (small 
bone), one and one half pints of water, one half carrot, one 
half parsnip, one quarter of an onion, one quarter turnip, 
one quarter of a head of celery, one clove, salt to taste; boil 
all together until meat is tender. Strain, and serve hot. 

Roast Pork.— Loin two and one half pounds ; place in spider 
with one pint of water; dust with flour, pepper, and salt; 
cover, and leave on top of the stove until steamed through. 
Put in the oven to roast with two parsnips, and two carrots, 
cut lengthwise. Bast often, until done nicely. 

Baked Heart,— Take one veal heart, wash and carefully 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 121 

remove the vessels. Stuff with two cupf uls of bread crumbs, 
one quarter cupful of chopped pork, season with salt and 
pepper; a sprig of thyme or parsley. Moisten with hot wa- 
ter; when filled, cover the ends with white cloth sewed fast 
to retain the stuffing. Put in a spider with one pint of water, 
dust over flour, salt, and pepper; cover and leave on top of 
the stove until steamed through. Place in the oven with four 
potatoes cut lengthwise to roast; baste often; when done to 
nice brown, remove the cloth, put in a hot dish with pota- 
toes, and serve. 

Beets, with Sauce. — Take three small beats ; cook until well 
done; skin and slice. Dressing: One table spoonful of vine- 
gar, one half cupful of water, butter size of a hickory -nut, 
a pinch of salt; let it come to a boil. Stir one teaspoonful 
of flour, mixed with water; let it boil one minute. Dust 
beets with a little salt and pepper, pour over the dressing, 
anl serve hot. 

Hot-slaw.— Take one half of a small cabbage, cut fine; 
one cup of water, butter the size of a walnut, pepper and 
salt to taste ; cook until tender. Before lifting, add one quar- 
ter cupful of vinegar. Serve hot. 

Apple Quarters. — Pare and quarter five nice apples, not 
too tart. Put into a stewpan, add one cupful of water, one 
cupful of sugar, the juice of a lemon; let it come to a boil, 
drop in your apples ; boil gently until the apples are clear. 
Put into four dessert dishes, pour over the syrup, grate a 
little nutmeg on top. Serve hot. 

Pumpkin Pie.— One pound of pumpkin; bake, press the 
pulp through a colander; to this add one half pint of milk, 
two eggs, one half teaspoonful ginger, one half teaspoonful 
cinnamon, one table-spoonful of molasses, one and one half 
cupf uls of sugar; stir well together. For paste: One cupful 
of flour, one half teaspoonful baking-powder, one half tea- 
spoonful salt, one quarter cupful of lard ; moisten with ice- 
cold water, roll out, and line a deep pie plate ; pour in your 
filling; bake. 

Sea Foam —Soak one half ounce of gelatine in a cupful of 
water (cold) for ten minutes; place over the fire, and remove 
as soon as dissolved. When nearly cold, beat to a stiff froth 
with an egg-beater. Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff 
froth; add it to the gelatine froth, with the juice of two lem- 
ons and pulverized sugar to taste. Set aside to cool. When 
cold, put in dessert dishes and serve. 

Coffee— One half cupful Java, one and one half pints wa- 
ter. Clear with a little white of egg ; boil ten minutes. 



122 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

BILL OF FARE NO. 70. 

Pea Soup. 

Fish, with Potatoes. 

Bread. 

Potted Rabbit, with Stewed Celery and Sweet Potatoes. 

Lobster Salad. 

Harrison Pudding. 

Coffee. 

COST. 

One half pint of peas, 2 cents ; pork, 2 cents ; onion and 
parsley, 1 cent; fish, 12 cents; potato, 2 cents; rabbit, 30 
cents; celery, 3 cents: sweet potato, 3 cents; lobster, 10 
cents; lettuce, 4 cents; bread, 5 cents; coffee, 4 cents; cur- 
rants, 3 cents; surar, 4 cents; butter, 7 cents; milk, 3 cents; 
flour, 3 cents ; egg, 2 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Pea Soup. — Take a half pint of soaked peas (can be bought 
in any market), a thin slice of lean salt pork cut in small 
pieces, with onions and some parsley; add two quarts of 
water, and boil slowly two hours (or more if not soft enough 
to put through a colander), and serve. 

Fish, with Potatoes. — One white-fish; wash and roll in 
a tow T el to dry. Split down the center, then quarter, and 
fry a nice light brown; sprinkle with salt while cooking. 
Take two good -sized potatoes; peel and cut in pieces about 
an inch square; stew until done, with a little salt in the 
water, in a porcelain or granite iron stewpan, so they will 
be nice and white; drain off the water when done; have 
ready a cup of milk, boiled and thickened with flour to 
about the consistency of cream ; add to this a lump of butter 
and some parsley-leaves ; pour over the potatoes and boil up 
a few minutes and serve, being careful not to mash them. 

Potted Rabbit. — Cut up and wash one rabbit and lay in 
salt and water one hour before cooking; then put in round- 
bottom pot one pint of water and cook two hours; wiien 
half done season with salt and pepper, adding just enough 
water from time to time to keep from burning. Then place 
nicely on a warm platter, add a little more water if needed, 
a lump of butter, then thicken the gravy and pour over the 
rabbit. Use as little water as possible m cooking this dish. 
Garnish with parsley. 

Bake four nice sweet potatoes. 

Stewed Celery. — Take the green of celery left from the day 
before, or one root, and cut in inch pieces ; boil till tender, in 
salted water. Toast and butter two small slices of bread, 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 123 

place in the dish; skim out the celery and place in the dish 
on top of the toast ; then thicken, with flour, enough of the 
liquor to pour over all, and moisten the toast sufficiently, 
(the same as asparagus) and serve. 

Lobster Salad.— Boil not quite half an hour in salted 
water; pick, chop, and set to cool. Wash, separate, and lay 
in cold water a nice head of lettuce till crisp, then drain and 
place the leaves nicely on your salad dish ; place the lobster 
m the center, serve 'together; season to suit the taste, add 
mustard, vinegar, and melted butter or oil. 

Harrison Pudding.— One quarter cupful of dried currents, 
washed and drained, one quarter cupful of butter, one quarter 
cupful of milk, one half cupful of sugar, three quarters cup- 
ful of flour, one egg, three quarters of a teaspoon ful of baking- 
powder; dissolve in a little hot water, stir in the last thing. 
Bake in a narrow tin not quite half an hour. 

Hard Sauce.— Butter and sugar stirred together till light 
as cream. 

Soft Sa uce. —Moisten two table-spoonfuls of flour with a 
little milk in a small stewpan ; then stir in enough boiling 
water to make about as thick as cream; add a pinch of salt; 
flavor with vanilla and brandy. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 71. 

Oysters, on Half -shell. 

Potato Soup. 

Chicken. 

Potatoes. Rice Croquets. Cranberries. 

Lettuce Mayonnaise. Crackers and Cheese. 

Spanish Cream. 

Coffee. 

COST. 

Oysters, 8 cents; potatoes, 4 cents; milk, 8 cents; onion, 
1 cent ; parsley, 1 cent ; eggs, 10 cents - f rice, 2 cents ; sugar, 
4 cents; gelatine, 6 cents; chicken, 30 cents; bread, crackers, 
cheese, 7 cents; salad, 4 cents; oil, 3 cents; vinegar, etc., 2 
cents ; cranberries, 10 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Serve oysters on the half-shell. 

Potato Soup.— Boil four large potatoes, mash them fine; 
one pint milk, one pint water, cut an onion in four pieces; let 
it boil in the milk and water a few minutes, then take out, 



124 ONE HUNDRED PEIZE DINNEES. 

Add one teaspoonful of salt and a small piece of butter (es- 
sence of celery if desired). Pour the liquid over the mashed 
potatoes, stirring all the time. Strain into a tureen in which 
chopped parsley has been placed. Beat an egg light and stir 
in soup just before sending to table. 

Chicken. — Thoroughly wash and wipe chicken; open in 
the back, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and spread with 
butter; cover the pan and put in oven for about three 
quarters of an hour. Cut the heart, liver, and gizzard in fine 
pieces. Mash the liver smooth with piece of butter size of 
walnut, and one table spoonful of flour, a little salt and pep- 
per; and a little nutmeg adds greatly to the flavor. Moisten 
with a little of the liquor they were boiled in and stir into it. 
Let boil until of the proper consistency. Then stir in the 
chopped heart and gizzard. Pour a little gravy over the 
chicken and serve the rest in gravy-boat. 

Potatoes.— Boil and mash six white potatoes. Be sure to 
boil some salt with the potatoes — it makes them white and 
mealy. Add a small piece of butter and two teaspoonfuls 
of milk ; beat very light, mold with the hands into pear- 
shaped balls, dip in the yelk of egg, put a whole clove in the 
top of each pear for a stem. Brown very delicately in the 
oven. Serve on a plate covered with fringed napkin. 

Rice Croquets.— One half cupful of rice boiled in milk and 
a little salt. When cold, add one egg, one quarter cupful 
white sugar, two table-spoonfuls of flour, and mix well. 
Shape in balls, roll in crackers, fry in lard. Decorate the 
dish with bits of parsley. 

Cranberries. — Pick and wash one pint of cranberries, add 
very little water and stew till soft ; add one half pound white 
sugar, boil ten minutes, and pour in jelly-mold previously 
wet with cold water to keep it from sticking. When cold, 
turn out on a dish for table. 

Lettuce. — Take one nice head of lettuce, pull to pieces and 
thoroughly wash each piece with the fingers. Let it lay in 
cold water till crisp, then shake off the water, drain on a 
towel and lay in salad bowl. Pour over the dressing. 

Dressing. — Mash the yelk of one egg (hard-boiled), add one 
quarter teaspoonful of mustard, one table-spoonful of sweet 
oil. Add the oil very slowly and mix well; then add a small 
quantity of vinegar. Mixed mustard or dry may be used 
according to taste. 

Serve wafer crackers and cheese with the salad. Cut 
the cheese in small squares. 

Spanish Cream.— One pint milk, one quarter box of 
gelatine, one teaspoonful extract of vanilla, sugar to taste, 
two eggs. Add the gelatine to the milk ; stand on fire to dis- 
solve. Beat sugar and yelks of eggs together, whites sepa- 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 125 

rately. Add the yelks to the boiling milk ; then beat in, the 
whites and mold. To be eaten cold. 

Coffee.— French-dripped. Put one and one half table- 
spoonfuls of ground coffee in the French coffee-pot and pour 
over it four cupfuls of water. The water must be poured or 
dripped very slowly indeed. Serve black in after-dinner 
cups. 

Properly setting the table and serving add to the enjoy- 
ment of a good dinner. Every article, both cloth and 
dishes, should be immaculate and placed with an eye to taste 
as well as convenience. A basket of ferns or flowers beauti- 
fies the table greatly. Cut a lemon in quarters to serve with 
the oysters, and put a square piece of bread (about one and 
one half inch thick) by each cover to eat with soup. Have 
salt, pepper, vinegar, and oil on the table. Have chopped 
ice in each glass, and a bowl of chopped ice on the table by 
the caraffe. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 72. 

Marrow Dumpling Soup. 

Fried White-fish. Boiled Potatoes. 

Pickled Beets. 

Roast Lamb. Stewed Apples. 

Turnips. Mashed Potatoes. 

Bread. Butter. 

Rice Pudding, Wine Sauce. 

Coffee. 

COST. 

Soup-meat, 5 cents; soup-greens, 2 cents; fish, 14 cents; 
potatoes, 5 cents; shoulder lamb, 3 pounds, 30 cents; tur- 
nips, 4 cents; beets, 2 cents; rice, 2 cents; 3 eggs, 6£ cents; 
three quarters loaf bread, 4 cents ; one quarter pound butter, 
7 cents; one half lemon, 1 cent; 1 pint milk, 4 cents; coffee', 
3 cents ; sugar, 3 cents ; apples, 3 cents ; flour, lard, and vine- 
gar, li cents ; wine, 3 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Soup.— Take marrow from bone ; have two quarts of water, 
in which put meat with a sprig of parsley and onion cut 
fine; add salt and pepper and boil two hours. Dumplings: 
Grate two slices white bread, add the marrow, one egg, little 
nutmeg, pinch salt and pepper, one half table-spoonful flour; 
mix and make into small dumplings the size of a hickory- 



126 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

nut; roll in flour and drop in soup fifteen minutes before 
serving. Serve hot in soup plates. 

Fish.— Clean, wash, and wipe dry; salt one hour before 
frying; roll in flour and fry in part lard and part butter. 
Serve on hot platter. 

Boiled Potatoes.— Take four nice potatoes, peel once 
around, and boil. Serve in small vegetable dishes at each 
plate (with fish). 

Shoulder of Lamb. — Have the bones cracked straight across ; 
put one cupful water in an iron kettle ; lay meat in and slice 
one onion on top; season with salt and pepper and roast two 
hours; add water as often as it boils dry; after roasting one 
hour, turn. Serve on hot platter ; stir one half table-spoon- 
ful of flour in gravy ; cut the meat and pour gravy over. 

Mashed Potatoes. — Boil and mash the balance of potatoes 
(after the four for fish are taken out) ; add a lump of butter, 
salt, and three table-spoonfuls milk. Put in deep dish, 
smooth top nicely and set in oven to brown ; serve in same 
dish while hot. 

Turnips.— Pare and cut in small pieces six white turnips, 
boil until done, drain and mash, add spoonful of butter, sea- 
son with salt and pepper, and mix three table-spoonfuls 
mashed potatoes (which can be taken before putting in oven 
to brown). 

Red Beets. — Boil three red beets in water enough to cover 
them, with a tea spoonful salt ; when done, peel, slice, and put 
in vinegar the day before needed. Serve in flat pickle-dish. 

Stewed Apples. — Pare and cut six greenings, each in six 
pieces, put in saucepan with one half cupful water, and 
cover. When done, put in glass dish without mashing, 
and sprinkle sugar to sweeten and one half teaspoonful cin- 
namon over all. 

Puddiny. — Soak three quarters cupful rice one hour; then 
boil one hour, or until thick; when done, turnout and allow 
to cool ; take one half cupful sugar, one and one half table- 
spoonfuls butter, the grated rind of one half lemon ; stir well 
together, add three quarters cupful milk ; now stir in the rice 
and put in buttered pudding-dish ; bake one hour in moder- 
ate oven. Serve in pudding-dishes with wine sauce. 

Wine Sauce. — One wineglassful white wine, one half wine- 
glassful of sugar; mix, bring to a boil, add one egg, and whip 
very rapidly for a few minutes, or until it thickens. 

Coffee.— Six table-spoonfuls coffee put in coffee-pot with 
one egg-shell and two tabld-spoonfuls cold water; mix, and 
add one cupful of boiling water ■ boil fifteen minutes slowly ; 
add enough hot water for four cups. 

Bread. — Serve in slices on bread-plnte. 

Butter.— Serve in individual dishes 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 127 

BILL OF FARE NO. 73. 

SOUP. 

Cream of Tomato. 

FISH. 

Bass, Baked, with French-Fried Potatoes. 

Veal Cutlets, Breaded, Tomato Sauce. 

Mashed Potatoes. . Creamed Onions. 

DESSERT. 

Lemon Jelly, with Custard. 
Coffee. 

COST. 

Can of tomatoes, 10 cents ; bass, 15 cents ; cutlets, 15 cents ; 
quart of milk, 8 cents ; two lemons, 4 cents ; eggs, 5 cents ; 
potatoes, 6 cents ; onions, 6 cents ; bread, 5 cents ; butter, 10 
cents; gelatine, 5 cents; coffee, 5 cents; sugar, 5 cents. 
Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Cream of Tomato Soup.— Take one pint of tomatoes; after 
cooking thoroughly, add half a saltspoonf ul of soda ; stir 
well, and then rub through a strainer fine enough to keep back 
all the seeds. Boil half pint of milk ; mix one teaspoonful of 
flour with a very little milk ; pour into the hot milk and 
cook a few minutes ; add a piece of butter half as large as an 
egg, salt and pepper. Then mix tomato and milk together, 
and serve. 

Baked Bass. — The fish, after being washed, cleaned, and 
dried, is put in a pan with a little flour, water, and butter ; 
baste often ; serve with sliced lemon. 

French-fried Potateos. — Cut three potatoes in long, thin 
slices, soak in cold water ten minutes, put two large table- 
spoonfuls of lard in the frying-pan ; when hot, wipe your 
potatoes and drop them in ; cook twelve minutes, or until a 
golden brown. Serve on a square platter. 

Veal Cutlets. — Roll them in bread crumbs, and frys lowly 
until browned; when done, pour the following sauce over 
them, and serve: Sauce, one large teacupful of tomatoes, 
one teaspoonful of flour, and same of butter, rubbed together, 
a little salt a dash of red pepper; cook for five minutes. 

Mashed Potatoes. — Boil six good-sized potatoes until done; 
drain and mash until perfectly smooth; add four table- 
spoonfuls of milk, butter half size of egg, and beat until 
very light with a fork. 

Creamed Onions. — Boil half dozen onions until tender; 
drain, cut the onions in small pieces, season with salt and 
pepper, and pour over a cream sauce. 



128 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

Cream Sauce.— Boil a half pint of milk; take one table- 
spoonful of butter, a half table-spoonful of flour; mix to- 
gether until they become a cream, and pour into the boiling 
milk ; stir until perfectly smooth. 

Lemon Jelly. — Take a half box of gelatine, two cupfuls of 
sugar, the juice of two lemons, and soak together for ten 
minutes in a pint of cold water. Add to this, after the gela- 
tine is thoroughly soaked, one pint of boiling water, and 
stir until the gelatine and sugar are both dissolved, then 
strain through a jelly-bag. Pour in a meld and set aside 
to cool. The jelly is better made the day before. 

Custard. — Boil one pint of milk. Beat two eggs and one 
cup of sugar until light; pour into the boiling milk and stir 
constantly until thickened; set aside to cool. When cold, 
put in a pretty pitcher, and when you serve the jelly on the 
dessert plates pour the custard over the jelly. This makes 
a pretty dish, also a delicious one. 

Coffee.— By the receipt that all good housekeepers know. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 74. 

Vermicelli Soup. 
Scalloped Oysters. 

MEAT. 

Roast Beef. 
Cranberry Sauce. Parker House Rolls. 

VEGETABLES. 

Sweet Potatoes, White Potatoes, Onions. 
Macaroni with Cheese. 

DESSERT. 

Apple Float. Hickory Nuts. Coffee. 

COST. 

Meat, 32 cents ; soup, 2 cents ; scalloped oysters, 12 cents ; 
cranberry sauce, 10 cents; rolls, 7 cents; sweet potatoes, 
4 cents; white potatoes, 3 cents; onions, 4 cents; macaroni 
and cheese, 8 cents; apple float, 10 cents; hickory nuts, 5 
cents; coffee, 3 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Meat. — Take a two lb. roast, trim and remove the bones, 
roll up and secure with a skiver or string; rub well with 
salt, sprinkle with pepper, and place in a pan with a little 
water, bake in a quick oven about one half hour, turning 
and basting frequently ; be careful that the drippings do not 
burn, or it will spoil the soup, add more water if necessary. 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 129 

Soup.— Take the trimmings and bones from your meat, 
break up the bones, and add to them about one quart of cold 
water; place on the back of the stove early in the morning, 
and let them just boil until about one half hour before din- 
ner, add water if it boils away ; you want about one pint of 
broth when you put in the -vegetables, one half a small po- 
tato, one half an onion, about as much turnip all chopped 
fine, a small quantity of vermicelli, remove all the bones, fat 
or gristle from the broth, add the vegetables, vermicelli, 
salt and pepper to taste; also a little celery salt, and the 
lean meat chopped fine, let boil slowly about one half hour, 
when roast is done, add the drippings. 

Scalloped Oysters.— Take one half pint of oysters, place a 
layer of them in a dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper; place 
over them a layer of cracker crumbs moistened with a little 
milk, add bits of butter, then a layer of oysters seasoned as 
before, then the moistened cracker crumbs with bits of but- 
ter, until the oysters have been all used ; have the cracker 
crumbs on top, pour over all the oyster broth, and a little 
milk; bake about twenty minutes or until nicely browned. 

Cranberry Sauce.— Cover one pint of cranberries with cold 
water, boil until nearly done, add one cup of sugar, and boil 
until they can be easily mashed with a spoon ; serve thor- 
oughly cold. 

Parker House Rolls.— Make a batter over night of one half 
cupful milk, yeast, one third cupful. In the morning put a 
piece of butter one half the size of an egg into one half pint 
of milk, and let it come to a boiling heat. Allow it to cool, 
add it to your batter with one table-spoonnf ul of sugar, mix 
well, add flour to knead, let it stand until very light. Roll, 
and cut with a biscuit cutter, add just a spread of butter, 
fold over, let them rise again until very light ; bake quickly. 
If you wish them hot for dinner, start them in the morning 
early, and they will be done by noon. 

Sweet Potatoes. — Select four medium sized potatoes, wash 
and place in boiling water ; when about two thirds done re- 
move from the water, and finish cooking them in the oven; 
when done remove the skins, cut in two once, place a bit of 
butter and a sprinkle of salt on each piece, place in a dish, 
and return to the oven until they glaze over. 

White Potatoes.— Select four or five potatoes of medium 
size, remove the skins, and place in cold water for a little 
while, then put them into boiling water salted, boil until 
thoroughly done, remove from water and mash well, add a 
lump of butter one half the size of an egg, about one half 
cupful milk, thoroughly mix, and press through a vegetable 
colander; place in the oven to brown. 
On ions.— Peel one half dozen onions, place in boiling 



130 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

water, and boil until about two thirds done. Take from the 
water, place in a dish, season well with pepper and salt, bits 
of butter placed over them, and nearly cover with milk. 
Bake in the oven until thoroughly done. 

Macaroni. — Break in pieces- about one inch in length, 
enough to fill a large teacup. Cover well with cold water, 
and boil in a double boiler until tender, adding more water 
if necessary. When well cooked add one half cupful milk, 
one full table-spoonful of butter, and salt to taste. Place in 
a dish, and scatter over it two table spoonfuls of grated 
cheese. Place in the oven, and allow it to brown over. 

Dessert — Apple Float. — Core three large apples, bake them, 
remove the skins, and add one cupful powdered sugar, and 
the white of one egg. Beat all together very light, the 
longer it is beaten the lighter and whiter it will be. Take 
one half pint of milk, the yelk of the egg, one tea spoonful 
corn starch, a very little salt, one spoonful sugar. Boil in a 
double boiler until it thickens. Flavor with anything you 
fancy ; place in a glass dish until cold, and float the apple 
upon it. 

Coffee. — Four heaping teaspoonfuls of ground coffee, one 
and one half cupful of boiling water, place the coffee in a 
little muslin bag with room to swell, add to the water and 
cover closely, and boil ten minutes. Put in the shell of the 
egg used in apple float, and set on the back part of range a 
few minutes. Serve clear in after-dinner cups. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 75. 

SOUP. 

Mock Bisque. 

FISH. 

Boiled Cod. Maitre d'Hotel Butter. 

DINNER. 

Loin of Pork. Baked Apples. 

Creamed Onions. Franconia Potatoes. 

Pickles. 

ENTREES. 

Clam Fritters Olives. 

DESSERT. 

Apple Snow. Macaroons. 
Chocolate. 

COST. 

I can tomatoes, 3 cents; 1 quart milk, 8 cents; 1£ pounds 
fresh cod, 15 cents; material for sauce, 5 cents; 2 lbs. loin 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 131 

of pork, 25 cents ; apples, 5 cents ; onions, 3 cents ; potatoes, 
2 cents; pickles, 2 cents; clams, 5 cents; olives, (i of 25 cent 
bottle), say 8 cents; eggs, 4 cents; sugar, 2 cents; macaroons 
7 cents, chocolate, 3 cents. Total, 97 cents. 

PREPARATION. 

Mock Bisque Soup.— I can tomatoes, stew until soft enough 
to strain easily. Boil 1 pint of milk in a double boiler, 
cook one table-spoonful of butter, and two teaspoonfuls of 
corn starch in a saucepan, adding enough of the hot milk to 
pour easily. Stir carefully into the boiling milk, cook ten 
minutes, stirring frequently. Add one teaspoonf ul salt, half 
saltspoont'ul white pepper, and the strained tomatoes. Serve 
very hot. 

Boiled Cod.— Place the fish in a cheese cloth bag. Salt 
the water, and when boiling hard put in the fish. Boil eight 
minutes to the pound. Serve on napkin garnished with 
parsley. 

Maitre $ Hotel Butter. — I cupful butter, I teaspoonf ul salt, 
i saltspoonful pepper, 1 table-spoonful chopped parsley. 
Rub butter to a cream, add salt, pepper, and parsley, and a 
little lemon juice. 1 cup hot water. 

Loin of Pork. — Rub well with salt, pepper, and a pinch of 
summer' savory. Roast 20 minutes to the pound. 

Franconia Potatoes.— Pave the potatoes, and cut to a uni- 
form size. Put them into pan with the meat, baste well with 
the meat gravy. 

Creamed Onions.— Cut the onions in halves, and boil until 
done ; drain and pour on i cupful of milk, salt, and pepper. 
Small piece of butter, cook slowly fifteen minutes. 

Clam Fritters. —Drain clams from liquor, chop fine ; beat 
one egg, and add to the liquor with teaspoonf ul baking pow- 
der ; teaspoonf ul salt ; flour to make batter, fry in hot lard. 

Apple Snoiv.— Peel and grate one large sour apple ; sprinkle 
over it a small cupful of powdered sugar, as you grate it to 
keep it from turning dark. Break into this the white of one 
egg. Beat constantly for half an hour; take care to have it in 
a large dish, as it beats up very stiff and light. Heap this 
in a glass dish, and pour a smooth custard around it, made 
from the yelk of the egg. 

Chocolate, or Cocoa.— Put one pint of milk in double boiler, 
when boiling add 4 teaspoonfuls Baker's cocoa, rubbed to a 
smooth paste with a little boiling water. 



132 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

BILL OF FARE NO. 76. 

SOUP. 

Potato Puree. 

MEAT. 

Veal Fricassee with Dumpling, 

VEGETABLES. 

Potato Balls. Mashed Turnips. 

ENTREES. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

DESSERT. 

Chocolate Pudding. 
Bread. Coffee. Nuts. 

COST. 

Two pounds veal, 15 cents; eggs, 7 cents; potatoes, 6 
cents ; onions, 1 cent ; salt pork, 1 cent ; 1 quart oysters, 30 
cents; turnips, 4 cents; crackers, 2 cents; sugar, 2 cents; 
chocolate and corn starch, 3 cents ; milk, 4 cents ; bread, 3 
cents; coffee, 3 cents; nuts, 10 cents; butter, 9 cents. To- 
tal, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Potato Puree. —Boil 4 potatoes. Chop an onion very fine, 
and boil with a little pepper and grated nutmeg. Mash the 
potatoes through a vegetable masher. Stir in the boiled and 
seasoned onion, water and all. Add a teaspoonful of salt, 
and the same of celery salt. Now pour boiling water to it, 
stirring all the time till it is of the consistency of thick 
gruel. Cream £ cupful butter; stir and beat with the yelk 
of an egg; then add gradually a cupful of milk. Set the 
puree on the fire, and stir in carefully the butter, egg,- and 
milk. Stir till it boils well. 

Veal Fricassee with Dumpling.— Cut up the veal, and put 
it in a medium sized stewpot with three cupfuls of water, a 
table-spoonful of flour, and some finely chopped parsley. 
Cook slowly for one hour. 

For Dumplings. — Take one quart sifted flour and one tea- 
spoonful of salt, and two teaspoonfuls of good baking-pow- 
der and mix together. Mix a dessert spoonful of butter 
with the flour ; wet with a scant pint of milk, and cut out in 
very small cakes rather thick, so as to puff up into ball 
shape in the cooking. Roll them lightly over a floured 
board to slightly coat. Put in a steamer over the fricassee, 
and keep closely covered for the last half hour of the boiling. 
Fry out three or four thin slices of salt pork. Lay pork, 
veal, and dumplings on a platter; add the pork fat to the 
gravy, and pour over. 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 133 

Potato Balls. — Take fresh mashed potatoes, stir in a table- 
spoonful of butter, and a beaten egg to a pint of potatoes. 
Add a half teaspoonful of salt, and a dust of pepper. Eoll 
into balls and dredge with flour. Fry in melted butter until 
a delicate brown. 

Mashed Turnips. — Boil until soft, mash, and add a little 
butter, salt ; dish up and sift with pepper. 

Scalloped Ousters.— One quart of oysters, the liquor 
drained and strained, enough water added to make half a 
pint. Salt to a sea flavor, and set where it will heat. A half 
pint of cracker crumbs ; and a saltspoonf ul of pepper mixed 
dry with the crumbs. Half cupful of butter melted, mixed 
with the crumbs. Put a layer of crumbs in a buttered 
dish, moisten with a few spoonfuls of the liquid, then a close 
layer of oysters and so on. Bake an hour. 

Chocolate Pudding. —Dissolve one and one half table- 
spoonful of corn starch in a pint of milk, and set on in a 
double boiler, with two table-spoonfuls of grated chocolate 
mixed. Take the yelks of two eggs with a table-spoonful of 
sugar beaten light. When the milk begins to boil, add the 
egg and sugar, and stir till it thickens. Take the whites of 
the eggs beaten light, with two table-spoonfuls of powdered 
sugar as a meringue for the top. 

Coffee as preferred. , 



BILL OF FARE NO. 77. 

SOUP. 

Tomato. 

MEAT, 

Roast Veal, with Dressing. 

VEGETABLES. 

Corn. Whipped Potatoes. 

Cauliflower, with White Sauce. 

Cabbage Salad. 

DESSERT. 

Baked Rice Pudding. 
Fresh Figs. Malaga Grapes. 

COST. 

Tomatoes for soup, 2 cents; veal, two pounds, 30 cents; 
corn, fresh, 5 cents; cauliflower, 5 cents; potatoes, new, 
4 cents; cabbage, 5 cents; rice pudding, 8 cents; figs, 2 
cents; grapes, 6 cents; bread, 4 cents; butter, 3 cents; one 
onion for soup, 1 cent. Milk, sugar, butter, and eggs used 



134 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

in the preparation, amount to 15 cents. The remaining 10 
cents will pay for the coffee and tea used. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Soup.— Bring to a boil three tablespoonfuls of dripping. 
Fry in this, one sliced onion. Put in one dozen ripe toma- 
toes, peeled and sliced, and stir until smoking hot ; then add 
one quart of boiling water. Stew forty minutes, run 
through the colander back into the pot and add one-half a 
cupful of boiled rice. Season with salt and pepper, simmer 
ten minutes and finally, add one tablespoonful of butter 
rolled in the same quantity of flour and boil one minute. 

Veal ivith Dressing. — Take two pounds of veal containing 
the kidney, and after cutting a pocket under the kidney, 
fill with a dressing made in the following manner. Lay thin 
slices of stale bread in the oven until nicely browned. Roll 
these until reduced to crumbs, add salt, pepper (sage if you 
like), and enough butter, melted and browned to moisten 
the crumbs. After filling the meat, place in a dripping pan 
pour a cup of boiling water over it, cover with another pan 
that exactly fits and roast in a moderate oven. Baste fre- 
quently after the first twenty minutes. 

Com.— Strip off the coarser husks leaving the fine ones 
next the ear on the stalk. Pull these down and pick off all 
the silk. Eeplace the inner husks and tie at the top. Drop 
the corn into boihng salted water. Cook half an hour and 
let remain in the hot water until ready to serve. Cut the 
stalks off with the husks on, and send to table, wrapped 
in a napkin on a flat dish. 

Cauliflower.— Wash well and put over the fire in plenty 
of hot water. Boil fifteen minutes, drain off the water and 
cover with more hot water. Cook until very tender. Heat 
in a sauce-pan half a cup of milk. Stir in a teaspoonful of 
butter rolled in one of flour ; pepper and salt to taste. Stir 
until thickened and pour over the cauliflower. 

Cabbage Salad —Scald one-half a cup of milk in one ves- 
sel and same quantity of vinegar in another. Put into the 
vinegar when hot, one tablespoonful of butter, one of sugar, 
pepper and salt to taste. Boil up once and stir in one small 
head of cabbage cut very fine. Cover and draw aside where 
it will scald but not boil. Pour the hot milk on a beaten 
egg ; return to the fire and stir until it begins to thicken. 
Turn the cabbage into the salad-bowl and pour the hot milk 
and egg over it and mix well. Cover the bowl and set, 
where it will cool suddenly. 

Baked Rice Pudding—Soak one-half a cup of raw rice in 
four cups of milk, two hours. Stir in one tablespoonful of 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 135 

melted butter; four tablespoonfuls of sugar; one-half a tea- 
spoonful of salt; mace and cinnamon to taste and bake in a 
moderate oven more than an hour until nicely browned 
and like custard throughout. Eat cold. Dinner served in 
three courses: 1st. Soup and bread; 2d. Meat and vegeta- 
bles ; 3rd. Dessert and coffee. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 78. 

Chicken. Sweet Potatoes. 

Boiled Turnips. Boiled Onions. 

Celery. Coffee. 

Bread. Butter. 

Meat Pie. 

Rice Pudding. 

COST. 

One chicken, 40 cents; meat pie, 11 cents; sweet potatoes, 
7 cents; one large turnip, 3 cents; boiled onions, 4 cents; 
bread, one-half loaf, 3 cents; one-quarter pound butter, 8 
cents ; rice pudding, 11 cents ; four cups coffee, 7 cents. 

PREPARATION. 

Chicken Roasted.— One and one half cup of breadcrumbs; 
one teaspoonf ul of butter ; small pinch of thyme or chopped 
onion, season with pepper and salt, then put in the oven to 
roast. 

Sweet Potatoes. — Wash the potatoes out, put them over 
to boil, let boil until done, put a one-half teaspoonf ul of salt 
in while boiling, peal ready for table. 

Boiled Turnips.— Peal and cut in small slices, boil until 
done, when done, mash and put in a little pepper and salt. 

Meat Pie. — Take the meat and boil until tender, season 
with salt and pepper, allowing enough water to make gravy, 
then peal two medium size potatoes; slice thin for the crust, 
two cups of prepared flour, one tablespoon of lard and 
butter, mix up with a little cold water, then line the sides 
of the pan with crust, next put the meat in the bottom of 
the pan lay the potatoes over the meat, then cover crust 
over the top, season with pepper and salt. 

Boiled Onions.— Feel and put in boiling water, pour in a 
half a cupful of milk serve with pepper and salt. 

Celery. — Wash and scrape, and put in a dish of cold water 
then put on the table for use. 

Rice Pudding. — Take four tablespoonfuls of rice, boil until 
partly done, then pour in the milk, one half cupful sugar, a 



136 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

a little salt, a pinch of cinnamon, a teaspoonful of butter, 
put in the oven to bake, when nicely browned, take out to 
cool. 

Coffee..— Two tablespoonfuls of coffee, put in boiling water 
use one tablespoonful of condensed milk and the same of 
sugar. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 79. 

New England Dinner. 

Baked Beans. 

BREAD. 

Wheat. Brown. 

Cranberry Marmalade. Pickles. 

Sweet Cider. 

DESSERT. 

Lemon Pie. Apple Tapioca Pudding, with Cream. 

Oranges. Apples. 

Mixed Nuts. 

COST. 

Beans, 6 cents; pork, 6 cents; wheat bread, 4 cents; 
orown, 4 cents ; cranberries, 10 cents ; pickles, 5 cents ; eggs, 

5 cents; lemon, 1 cent; sugar, 8 cents; butter, 8 cents; cider, 

6 cents; apples, 3 cents; tapioca, 2 cents; cream, 10 cents; 
nuts, 13 cents ; oranges and apples, 9 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Beans. — Soak one pint of marrow beans in two quarts of 
water, over night. In the morning, drain off the water and 
rinse thoroughly, add three pints of water and three table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. Take one half pound of salt pork, wash 
carf ully and lay on the beans. Bake four or five hours in a 
hot oven. 

Cranberry Marmalade.— Steam one quart of cranberries 
until soft : strain through a sieve, add one cupful of white 
sugar ; cook five minutes. Serve cold. 

Lemon Pie — Filling.— One tablespoonful of corn starch 
dissolved in cold water ; add one cupful of boiling water ; 
one cupful of white sugar; one whole egg and yelk of one; 
juice and grated rind of one lemon ; butter, size of an egg. 
Crust. One fourth pint of flour. Work into the flour one 
tablespoonful of butter; one fourth teaspoonful of soda and 
mix with milk or water. Bake with one crust. Beat the 
white of one egg to a stiff froth ; add two teaspoonfuls of 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 137 

sugar ; spread over the pie and set in the oven for a few 
minutes. 

Apple Tapioca Pudding.— Five tablespoonfuls of granu- 
lated tapioca soaked for four hours in three cups of water; 
add three small apples chopped very fine; then two thirds 
cupful of sugar ; bake slowly about four hours. To be eaten 
warm or cold with cream. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 80. 

SOUP. 

Oyster. 

MEATS. 

Barbecued Rabbit. 

VEGETABLES. 

Boiled Irish Potatoes. 

Parsnips, Sweet Potatoes. 

Lettuce Salad. Bread, Butter. 

DESSERT. 

Cherry Pie, Bananas and Oranges. 
Cheese. 
Coffee. 

COST. 

Salt - water oysters, 13 cents ; rabbit, 20 cents ; Irish 
potatoes, 3 cents ; parsnips, 4 cents ; sweet potatoes, 4 cents ; 
lettuce salad, 7 cents ; cherry pie, 13 cents ; bananas, 3 cents ; 
oranges, 4 cents; cheese, 4 cents; biead, 3 cents; butter, 14 
cents ; milk. 3 cents ; coffee, 5 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Soup.— Salt-water oysters, one pint; put into stew-pan one 
pint water, half pint milk, let it come to boiling heat, then 
add a liberal piece of butter, salt, then oysters, dash of 
pepper. Serve in two minutes. 

Barbecued Rabbit.— Dress carefully, wash well in soda 
water, cut in six pieces, put into one pint of boiling salt 
water, boil until tender, adding more water if necessary, 
when tender remove cover, and add a piece of butter, let 
meat brown, turning it that it may be browned alike on 
either side. Serve. 

Boiled Irish Potatoes.— Boil with jackets; remove before 
serving. 

Siceet Potatoes. — Wash four nice smooth sweet potatoes, 
scrape well, bake in a moderate oven. 

Parsnips.— Take three parsnips, peel, slice lengthwise, boil 



138 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

in salt water, add teaspoonful sugar, when very tender take 
out on dish, pour tablespoonful melted butter over them 
with dash of pepper. 

Lettuce Salad. — Take small head lettuce, separate leaves, 
wash carefully, place in salad dish, and use dressing of four 
spoonfuls of good vinegar, one and one-half teaspoon! uls raw 
mustard, teaspoonful sugar; heat ingredients together, when 
cold pour over lettuce, sliced boiled egg and place over top. 

Celery.— Small stalk well bleached, wash, serve. 

Cherry Pie.— Two spoonfuls of lard not warm, one pint of 
flour, mix lard thoroughly through flour, a pinch of salt and 
four tablespoonfuls of water, mix until it will roll out with- 
out sticking to pastry-board, roll very thin, line pie plate, 
and take one pint of cherries, half cup of sugar, a small piece 
of butter, sprinkle over with flour the remaining crust roll 
thin, cut holes in top, and cover, molding the edges, bake in 
a quick oven. 

Bananas and Orange Dessert. — Three bananas, peel and 
slice; two oranges, peel and slice, place together in fruit- 
dish, tablespoonful of pulverized sugar sprinkled over them. 

Cheese.— Plain, cut in squares. 

Coffee.— One half cup good coffee, add half egg wet, with 
half cup cold water, mix thoroughly, pour a pint of boiling 
water over and boil good for five minutes, set aside two 
minutes and serve. 

Please try this dinner you will find it good. 



BILL OF FAEE NO. 81. 

SOUP. 

Gravy. 

Meats. 
Chicken a la Carmelite. 

VEGETABLES. 

Stewed Potatoes. Escalloped Onions. 

Oyster Plants. Boiled Hominy. 

DESSERT. 

Miroton of Apples. Spiced Currants 

Patty Gems. 

Coffee. 

COST. 

Soup meat, 8 cents; little piece ham, 2 cents; spices and 
herbs, 3 cents ; soup greens, 3 cents ; If chicken, 28 cents ; I 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 139 

lemon, 1 cent; wine, 3 cents; milk, 6 cents; butter, 5 cents; 
potatoes, 3 cents; lard, 1 cent; oyster plant, 6 cents; hominy, 

2 cents ; onions, 2 cents ; apples, 3 cents ; sugar, 2 cents ; eggs, 
5 cents; brandy, 2 cents; spices and currants, 4 cents; coffee, 

3 cents; flour, 3 cents; i can tomatoes, 5 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Gravy Soup.— Put 1 pound lean beef and 2 ounces ham into 
1 pint of water ; cover with water and simmer 3 hours, dur- 
ing which time it must not boil, as the pores of the meat will 
then be opened and the gravy drawn ; throw in 3 quarts of 
hot water, with £ ounce each of pepper, allspice, and salt, as 
well as sweet herbs, cloves, 2 or 3 carrots and turnips to- 
gether with little celery, and boil all slowly till the meat is 
done to rags. Strain well. It will keep well. 

Chicken a la Carmelite.— Put a piece of butter, size of a 
walnut, in a stew-pan ; as it melts dredge in flour, and well 
mixed, add a teacup of milk. Cut up and add the chicken 
with pepper, an onion and little mace. Stew till tender, ad- 
ding milk and water if too dry. Take out the chicken and 
cover with chopped parsley and lemon-juice mixed, thicken 
the same and add a glass of white wine. 

Stewed Potatoes.— Put into a frying-pan a small piece of 
butter, a little parsley chopped fine, salt and pepper, and add 
i a cup of milk, set on the fire and let come to a boil. Cut 
cold boiled potatoes into small pieces and turn into the milk 
and let it boil up around the potatoes and add another small 
piece of butter. 

Escalloped Onions.— Boil till tender 4 large onions; after- 
ward separate them with a large spoon, then place a layer 
of onions and a layer of bread crumbs alternately in a pud- 
ding dish ; season with pepper and salt to taste, moisten with 
milk, put into the oven to brown. 

Oyster Plant.— Scrape off £ bunch, par-boil; cut in slices; 
dip in beaten egg, season and roll in bread crumbs and fry 
in hot lard. 

Hominy.— Soak l cup in 1£ cups of water and salt to taste; 
in the momma- put into a pail and set the pail into another 
kettle of boiling water, cover tightly and steam 1 hour, add £ 
cup of milk and boil 5 or 10 minutes. 

Miroton of Apples.— Pare and scald i dozen apples, reduce 
to a pulp, and pile high on the dish in which they are to be 
served ; boil 1 teaspoonf ul of grated lemon-peel and 6 or 8 
lumps of sugar in a teacup of water ; then add the yelks of 2 
eggs and the white of 1 egg, \ ounce butter, a spoonful of 
flour, and 1 of brandy, mix the whole over the fire, and stir 
until quite smooth. Pour it on the apples, then whisk the 
white of 1 egg to a froth, put it over the miroton just as it is 



140 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

going into the oven, and sift some sugar over it. Bake 10 
or 15 minutes in a slow oven. 

Spiced Currants. — Home-made. 

Patty Gems.— Use Martha Washington flour, containing 
butter, salt, etc. Cup and a half of flour mixed with cold 
water or milk and put into gem-tins and bake 15 or 20 
minutes. 

Coffee.— Java and mocha mixed. Use i teacup and pour 
boiling water and boil 10 to 15 minutes, clear with egg-shells. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 82. 

SOUP. 

Yankee. 
Oyster Fricassee on Toast. 

MEATS. 

Breast of Lamb Roasted with Tomato Sauce. 

VEGETABLES. 

Mashed White Potatoes. Baked Sweet Potatoes. 
Fried Parsnips. Beets. 

DESSERT. 

Tippecanoe Plum Pudding. Escalloped Oranges. 
Bread. 
Coffee. 

COST. 

Beans, 3 cents; one half can tomatoes, 5 cents; one onion, 
parsley and stalk of celery, 3 cents; twenty oysters, 20 
cents ; two and a half pounds breast of lamb, at 8 cents per 
pound, 20 cents; one quart white potatoes, 3 cents; one quart 
sweet potatoes, 4 cents ; two parsnips, 2 cents ; three beets, 
3 cents ; loaf of bread, 5 cents ; three ounces butter, 6 cents ; 
flour, 4 cents; quarter pound sugar, 2 cents; cow's milk, 3 
cents; two ounces coffee, 4 cents; two oranges, 4 cents; one 
banana, 2 cents ; one cup raisins, 3 cents ; one cup dried cur- 
rants, 2 cents ; quarter pound suet, 2 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Yankee Soup.-— Soak one cup of white beans (Marrowfats 
are the best) over night in a quart of warm water. In the 
morning drain water off and put beans to cook in three pints 
of fresh, cold water. Simmer gently four hours. Then add 
one cupful of canned tomatoes, one onion and a sprig of cel- 
ery; also a teaspoonful of flour dissolved in a little cold 
water. Allow to.cook one-half hour longer. Takle from fire 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 141 

and strain through a colander, using a potato masher to 
force substance thoroughly through. Chop a little parsley 
up fine and put it in the bottom of soup tureen. Then pour 
in the soup and add salt, pepper and butter to taste. 

Oyster Fricassee on Toast.— Take the juice of twenty oys- 
ters, after removing oysters carefully with silver fork, strain 
through a coffee strainer and add one cup of milk. When 
boiling hot add an even teaspoonful of flour previously dis- 
solved in a little cold water (to remove lumps). Boil one 
minute, stirring constantly to prevent burning. Then put 
in the oysters and as soon as their edges turn, remove from 
fire, season with a little butter, pepper and salt, and pour 
over four half slices of toast. 

Breast of Lamb Breaded. — Let the butcher remove the 
little ribs from two pounds and a half of breast of lamb. 
Then wash, and dry, and moisten it with a little milk. Add 
pepper and salt and sprinkle well with thoroughly dried and 
rolled bread crumbs. Put in a pan and add a half -cup of 
water. Bake from half to three quarters of an hour. Then 
remove to meat dish and pour over it tomato sauce. Gar- 
nish with parsley. 

Tomato Sauce.— Boil one cup of tomatoes mixed with two 
thirds of cup of water, fifteen minutes. Thicken with little 
flour, strain, and season with pepper and salt. 

Mashed Potatoes. — Boil one quart of potatoes half an hour 
and mash thoroughly. Add milk, pepper and salt. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes. —Bake four or five sweet potatoes 
which should be as near the same size as possible, in a hot 
oven, three quarters of an hour. 

Beets. — Wash three good sized beets exercising care not to 
break the skins, Boil three hours in plenty of hot water. 
Transfer to cold water and remove skins. Then slice and 
season with pepper, salt, butter, and a little sugar, and pour 
over a half-cup of warm vinegar. 

Fried Parsnips.— Scrape the skins off two good sized pars- 
nips. Cut in half lengthwise. Put in boiling water and 
cook until tender. Then slice and flour. Fry in hot fat 
until they are of light brown color. 

Tippecanoe Plum Pudding.— Half a cup of molasses, one 
cup water, half of small sweet potato grated, one teaspoon- 
ful each of ginger, allspice and ground cloves, even teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one teaspoonful of baking soda (baking powder 
will not do) dissolved in a half cup of boiling water, one cup 
of suet chopped fine mixed with four cups of sifted flour, stir 
the above thoroughly and then add one cup each of currants 
well washed and dried raisins stoned and chopped, the 
fruit should be floured, put into a well greased mold and 
boil three or steam four hours. 



142 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

/ 

Sauce. — Mix to a cream one cnp of sugar and a piece of 
butter as large as an egg.— To one cup of boiling water add a 
tablespoonful of flour mixed in a little cold water and strained 
through a coffee strainer to remove lumps, cook ten min- 
utes. Just before serving, pour this over the butter and 
sugar, stirring briskly a few minutes, season with two tea- 
spoonfuls of vinegar, a little nutmeg and salt. 

Escalloped Oranges.— Into a pretty glass dish put alternate 
layers of sliced oranges and sliced bananas, sprinkling each 
layer well with powdered sugar. 

Coffee. — Soak two thirds of a cup of coffee and one egg- 
shell in one cup of cold water for an hour, then add three 
pints of boiling water and allow to come to a boil, leave on 
back part of stove half an hour. Before serving add two 
tablespoonfuls of cold water and turn out a cupful and pour 
back to settle coffee. 



BILL OF FAEE No. 83. 

SOUP. 

White Soup. 

POULTRY. 

Breaded Chicken. 

MEAT. 

Steamed Oysters. 

VEGETABLES. 

Potatoes. Cabbage. 

Turnips. Baked Squash. 

Celery. 

SALAD. 

Potato Salad. 
Bread. 

DESSERT. 

Russian Cream. 
Coffee. 

COST. 

Bread, 4 cents; coffee, 4 cents; soup, potatoes, onions, 
tomatoes and tapioca, 7 cents; chicken, 30 cents; oysters 
and seasoning, 20 cents ; cranberry sauce, 5 cents ; celery, 3 
cents; potatoes, 3 cents; turnips with seasoning, 4 cents; 
cabbage with seasoning, 5 cents; squash, 3 cents; potato 
salad, 3 cents; Russian cream, 9 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

White Soup.— 2 potatoes, 1 onion, 1 tomato, 1 table-spoon- 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 143 

ful of crushed tapioca, coffee-cup of milk. Boil vegetables 
in one quart of water ; rub through a sieve, return the paste 
to the water and add tapioca, milk, butter, pepper and salt ; 
serve hot. 

Chicken Breaded.— Cut up a chicken, wash and wipe dry. 
Put a little butter and lard in a frying-pan, dip the pieces in 
beaten egg, roll in fine bread crumbs, season with salt and 
a sprinkle of pepper, and fry light brown. Garnish with 
parsley or celery. 

Cranberry Sauce.— One half pint cranberries, two-thirds 
of a pint of water. Stew till tender; add large coffee-cup 
of sugar. 

Steamed Oysters.— Take select oysters, put in a round 
vegetable dish; season highly with salt, pepper, and butter. 
Put in a st-eamer and cook till they curl. 

VEGETABLES. 

Mashed Potatoes. —Boil six potatoes, drain ; add salt and 
little milk, beat till creamy and light. Put bits of butter 
over top and serve hot. 

Baked Turnips. — Pare four small turnips, cut in halves, 
boil in salted water till tender; drain and lay in a small 
baking dish. Pour over them the following sauce : 1 table- 
spoonful of butter, 1 of flour, stirred together in a skillet. 
When thoroughly heated and mixed, add one half of a cup of 
milk, stirring in gradually with a pinch of salt and a little 
pepper. Bake twenty minutes. 

Cream Cabbage.— Slice fine i head of cabbage, salt, and 
pepper, cook in just sufficient water to keep from burning, 
take J cup sour cream, J cup vinegar, 1 egg, butter size of 
walnut ; beat these together, pour over and let it boil up ; 
serve at once. 

Squash Baked. — Take piece of squash and bake it. Scrape 
out of shell, and season with little sugar, butter and salt. 

Potato Salad. — Slice four cold potatoes, mix with this one 
small onion chopped fine. Dressing, i cup vinegar, \ cup, 
rich milk, table-spoonful of butter, pinch of salt and pepper. 
Set vinegar, butter, salt and pepper on stove. Put £ tea- 
poonful of mustard and a pinch of corn-starch in the milk, 
mix, and when vinegar boils stir in. Take the yelk of one 
egg left from pudding, beat and turn this boiling mixture 
over it, stirring one way for five minutes. When cold pour 
over potatoes. 

Russian Cream. — One sixth box Cox's gelatine, 1 pint of 
milk, whites of two eggs, yelk of one. Dissolve gelatine in 
add yelks and sugar. Let it come to a boil, then remove 
from the fire. When cool, add whites of eggs beaten to 
stiff froth. Pour into a mold; set it on ice till hard. 



144 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

Flavor a coffee-cup of cream with vanilla and pour over it ; 
sweeten totas te. 

Coffee.— Four table-spoonfuls of ground coffee. Take in- 
side skin from egg-shell, put on four cups of cold water and 
let it come to a boil. Boil three miuutes. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 84. 

MEATS. 

Potted Beef. 
Scalloped Oysters. 

VEGETABLES. 

Potatoes and Bread Filling. 
Sweet Potatoes. 

SIDE DISHES. 

Stewed Corn. 

Tomato Sauce. 

Cabbage Salad with Dressing. 

DESSERT. 

Apple Pie. 

Bread Pudding. 

Coffee with Cream. 

COST. 

One and a half pounds of beef, 21 cents; 24 oysters, 15 
cents; 4 water-crackers, 1 cent; butter, 8 cents; 1 quart 
of potatoes, 3 cents; i loaf of fresh bread, 3 cents; $ loaf of 
stale bread, 2 cents ; one small onion and a little parsley, 1 
cent ; 4 large sweet potatoes, 3 cents ; 4 medium sized apples, 
2 cents; -J- can of corn, 6 cents; ican of tomatoes, 6 cents; 10 
ounces of flour, 3 cents ; 9 ounces of sugar, 4 cents ; 4 ounces 
of lard, 3 cents; i head of cabbage, 2 cents; one long stem 
of celery or one teaspoonf ul of celery seed, 1 cent ; £ cup of 
coffee, 3 cents ; cream, 1 cent ; 3 eggs, 7 cents ; vinegar and 
mustard, 1 cent ; milk, 4 cents ; Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Potted Beef. —Take 1$ pounds of beef, the rump or chuck, 
put in an iron boiler and cover with cold water, add a little 
salt. Boil slowly for one hour, when the water has nearly 
all cooked off, set the boiler back on the stove, allowing the 
meat to brown slowly, taking care not to let it burn ; turn 
the meat frequently. Before serving, place the meat on a 
platter, and put a teacupful of water in the boiler, mix a 
teaspoonful of flour in half a teacupful of water to make 
the dressing. 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 145 

Scalloped Oysters. — Pub in a dish a layer of oysters, 
sprinkle cracker dust over them; add a small pinch each of 
salt and pepper, and also little pieces of butter here and 
there. Add layers in the same manner until you have used 
all the oysters ; finish by sprinkling cracker dust on the top 
and one beaten egg. Bake in a hot oven twenty minutes. 

Potatoes and Bread Filling. — Boil the potatoes until soft, 
pour off all the water and mash ; melt one tablespoonful of 
butter, and one half tablespoonful of lard; cut up small 
onion, and little parsley into fine pieces and put into the 
pan with the melted lard and butter, and brown the least 
bit. Crumb into small pieces little more than half of your 
stale bread ; add to the potatoes. Take one egg, and 1 table- 
spoonful of flour, with i teacupf ul of milk, mix well to- 
gether. Put the onion and parsley with the potatoes, then 
add the other mixture to moisten ; salt and. pepper to taste. 
After thoroughly mixing put on a plate and bake in the 
oven one half hour. 

Sweet Potatoes. —Pare four sweet potatoes, cut lengthwise 
into halves ; boil until soft in a little salt water ; when soft 
put into a pan with a little lard, and brown on both sides. 

Stewed Corn. —Take one half can of sweet corn, put 
into a boiler and cover with water, add a pinch of salt; 
boil twenty minutes. Before serving pour off a little of 
the water and add a small piece of butter and one quarter 
cup of milk. 

Tomato Sauce. — Take one half can of tomatoes put into a 
pan, add a pinch of salt, boil one half hour stirring fre- 
quently. When boiled add a small piece of butter, one 
table-spoonful of sugar; mix one quarter of a teaspoonful of 
flour in a little water to thicken the tomatoes, then let it 
boil a few minutes before serving. 

Cabbage Salad.— Take one half head of cabbage, cut coarse 
with a cabbage cutter, and then put it into a wooden bowl 
and chop with a meat chopper. Cut one stem of celery into 
small pieces and put with the cabbage, or one teaspoonful of 
celery seed. 

Dressing for Salad. — Take a scant table-spoonful of 
butter, melt in a pan; mix one half cup of vinegar, one 
teaspoonful of sugar; one quarter of teaspoonful of flour, 
one quarter of a teaspoonful of mustard, then pour into the 
melted butter, and let boil a minute or two, stirring all the 
time. When boiled, set away till it is nearly cool, then mix 
with the cabbage. Put the salad into a dish, putting the 
egg on top and garnish with celery leaves. 

Apple Pie.— Take one half pound of flour, one teaspoonful 
of salt, one half cup of lard, mix well ; add enough water 
to moisten. Take a little more than half the dough to line 



146 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

the pie pan. Pare and quarter the apples, putting into the 
pan, sprinkle with a little cinnamon, one large tahle spoon- 
ful of sugar. Put top crust on and hake in a slow oven one 
half hour. 

Bread Pudding. — Take yelks of two eggs, one table- 
spoonful of sugar, heat well together; then mix with not 
quite a pint of milk. Cut balance of stale bread into small 
pieces, add this to the mixture ; flavor with the grated rind 
of a lemon. Put all into a small pudding-dish, and bake in 
a hot oven twenty minutes, In the mean time, beat the 
whites of the two eggs and sweeten with one quarter tea- 
spoonful of sugar. When the pudding is baked spread the 
whites over it, and return to oven to brown lightly. Stand 
in a cool place. 

Coffee. Put one half cup of ground coffee into a small 
salt bag, tying the bag shut, leaving room for the coffee 
to swell. Scald with four cups of boiling water, and boil 
ten minutes. Before serving, divide the cream into the 
four cups ; you will find the coffee a great deal nicer in put- 
ting the cream into the cups first. 



BILL OP FAEE NO. 85. 

MEAT. 

Stuffed Chicken, Giblet Gravy. 
Scalloped Oysters. 

VEGETABLES. 

Mashed Potatoes. Steamed Squash. 

Fried Apples. Bread. 

DESSERT. 

Plum Pudding with Sauce. 
Coffee. Cream. 

COST. 

Three pounds chicken, 42 cents; 1 pint oysters, 15 cents; 
crackers, 2 cents; 1 quart potatoes, 3 cents; I of a Hubbard 
squash, 3 cents ; apples, 2 cents ; lard, 1 cent ; sugar, 4 cents ; 
raisins, 3 cents; flour, 2 cents; bread, 5 cents; coffee, 3 
cents; cream, 3 cents; butter, 7 cents; spices, 1 cent; mo- 
lasses, 1 cent ; milk, 3 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Stuffed Chicken. —Buy a fat chicken one year old, singe, 
draw and wash, save the giblets, have ready a dressing 
made of stale bread, moistened with a little milk, season 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. Hi 

with salt, pepper and a little powdered sage ; if you like it, 
mix thoroughly and fill the chicken with it, sew up the 
chicken, draw the skin over the neck and tie. Eub the 
chicken with salt and pepper and dust it with flour, place 
in a small dripper with a little hot water and butter, cook 
about two hours in a moderately hot oven, basting often 
with the gravy. When nicely browned remove from the 
pan, draw out the string, place on a platter in a warm place 
until ready to serve. 

Gravy. —Chop the giblets fine, and put on the stove with 
enough cold water to cover them, cover closely and simmer 
while the chicken is baking, then strain the liquid into the 
dripping-pan, and thicken with a little flour ; serve with the 
chicken. 

Scalloped Oysters.— Take one pint of oysters, free from 
bits of shell, wash and drain in a colender, roll some crack- 
ers very fine and sprinkle a little in the bottom of a small 
deep earthen dish, put in a layer of oysters sprinkled with 
salt, pepper, and small pieces of butter, put in another layer 
of cracker crumbs and moisten with milk, and so on until 
all the oysters have been used, cover with cracker crumbs, 
wet with milk and cover with a tin, bake half an hour, un- 
cover and brown; serve in the same dish wound with a 
napkin. 

Squash.— Put the squash in a steamer after you have 
cleaned out the seeds and soft part, cook half hour, scrape 
out the yellow part, season with salt, pepper, and butter 
and mold in a dish and serve hot. 

Fried Apples.— Wipe, core and cut into eighth's four tart 
apples, put a tablespoonf ul of lard in a frying-pan and when 
very hot lay the apples in it so that they will just touch 
each other, brown and turn, sprinkle with sugar and brown 
on the other side, if not perfectly tender put on a cover and 
steam a moment or two, remove to a warm dish, and fry 
the others the same way, sprinkle all with sugar; serve 
very hot with the chicken in small side dishes. 

Plum Pudding.— One third cupful of suet, rubbed very 
fine and freed from shreds. One third cupful of seeded 
raisins, one third cupful of milk, one cupful of flour, one 
third teaspoonful of soda; one third cupful of molasses, one 
teaspoonful of cinnamon, or spice to suit your taste, one 
teaspoonful of salt ; any other kind of fruit will do as well. 
Mix all very thoroughly together, put in a well greased 
mold or lard pail with a tight fiiting cover, boil li hour; 
turn out of the mold, slice and lay in small dishes and pour 
over them a sauce. 

Pudding Sauce.— Cream one fourth cupful of butter with 
half cupful of sugar, wet one teaspoonful of corn-starch with 



148 ONE HUNDRED PEIZE DINNERS. 

a little water, stir into it one cupful of boiling water, one" 
teaspoonful or mace ground, mix all together and serve hot. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 86. 

SOUP. 

Tomato Soup. 

MEAT. 

Beef Steak. 
Escalloped Potatoes. 
Peas. Celery. 

DESSERT. 

Cream Tapioca Pudding. 
Coffee. 

COST. 

Tomatoes, 10 cents ; beef steak, 40 cents ; potatoes, 6 cents ; 
peas, 15 cents ; celery, 6 cents ; cream and tapioca. 12 cents ; 
coffee, 6 cents; bread, 5 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Tomato Soup.— Boil one pint tomatoes with one quart 
water twenty minutes. Strain then add one pint milk, in 
which has been previously dissolved a pinch of soda. Re- 
turn to fire and let come to a boil again. Season to taste 
with salt, pepper, and a small piece of butter. 

Beef Steak. — Broil ten minutes over a clear fire. 

Escalloped Potatoes. — Peel and slice one quart potatoes 
thin, same as for frying. Butter an earthen dish, put in a 
layer of potatoes and season with salt, pepper, butter, a 
little onion chopped fine ; sprinkle a little flour. Continue 
in this way till the dish is filled. Just before putting into 
the oven, pour a cupful of milk over. Bake three fourths 
of an hour. 

Peas. — One can, warmed through without boiling. Sea- 
son with salt, pepper, and small piece of butter. 

Celery. — Scrape and lay in ice water one hour before 
using. 

Cream Tapioca Pudding. — Soak three tablespoonfuls tapi- 
oca in one pint of water one hour. Add the yelks of 
three eggs and half a cupful of sugar, vanilla or other fla- 
voring, and a pinch of salt, stir into one pint of milk. Cook 
slowly till the consistency of soft custard. Beat the whites 
of the eggs stiff, add three tablespoonfuls of sugar and a 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS, 140 

little flavoring. Then stir a part into the cream and pour 
the rest over it, set in the oven for one minute. 

Coffee. — Four tablespoonfuls coffee, add one pint boiling 
water and egg shells ; boil one minute. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 87. 

SOUP. 

Cream of Celery. 

FISH. 

Boiled Codfish. Egg Sauce. 

MEAT. 

Ragout of Veal. 

VEGETABLES. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes. Cranberry Sauce. 

Celery. Baked Macaroni. 

DESSERT. 

Apple Fritters. 
Demi Tasse Black Coffee. 

COST. 

Soup, 13 cents; fish, 17 cents; veal, 30 cents; sweet pota- 
toes, 4 cents; cranberries, 8 cents; macaroni, 7 cents; cel- 
ery, 7 cents ; apple fritters, 10 cents ; coffee, 4 cents. Total, 

$1. 

PREPARATION. 

Cream of Celery Soup.— Get a knuckle of veal with some 
meat. Have the bone chopped. Put on the bone and meat 
to boil in two quarts of water. Take half a bunch of celery 
(the outside pieces will do), chop it fine and put in the soup. 
Cover closely, and boil for three hours, until the celery is 
dissolved. Strain the liquor and return to the pot. Let 
this boil for twenty minutes; and add before taking up, a 
teacupful of sweet milk, in which has been stirred a table- 
spoonful of flour. Season with salt and pepper, and a very 
small piece of butter. When it has fairly boiled up, serve 
without further straining, with small squares of toast in the 
tureen. 

Boiled Codfish.— Lay the fish in cold water, slightly 
salted, for a half hour before cooking. Wipe it dry, wrap 
it in a linen cloth which has been dredged with flour, then 
sew the edges closely together, and boil in salted water for 
one half hour. 

Egg Sauce. — Take two gills of boiling water and one gill 
of milk. When it is scalding hot stir in a table- spoonful of 



L50 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

butter, rolled thickly in flour ; season with salt. After one 
good boil remove from the fire, and add a hard-boiled egg 
which has been chopped very fine. Serve the fish on a hot 
dish with the sauce poured over it. 

Ragout of Veal— Have two pounds of shoulder of veal 
cut into pieces two inches long. Slice an onion and fry it 
brown in a table-spoonful of lard. Stir into the frying-pan, 
six table-spoonfuls of boiling water, and thicken with two 
table-spoonfuls of flour. Put the veal into a saucepan with 
four slices of bacon cut into strips; season with pepper and 
salt. Add the onion and gravy and a half cupful of tepid 
water. Cover and stew forty minutes, or until tender. 
Then add the juice of half a lemon ; shake well, and serv- 
in a deep dish. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes.— Take a pint of medium sized 
sweet potatoes, wash thoroughly, cut off the tip ends, bake 
a half hour ; serve in their jackets. 

Cranberry Sauce.— Take a pint of cranberries, wash and 
put into a saucepan with a teacupful of water. Boil slowly 
a half hour, then press with a spoon the berries to make the 
sauce smooth. Make quite sweet; serve cold in a glass 
dish. 

Baked Macaroni.— Take a third of a package of pipe mac- 
aroni, break into pieces an inch long, put into boiling 
water slightly salted, stew gently twenty minutes, or until 
tender. Drain well, and put a layer in the bottom of a deep 
dish, upon this grate a layer of mild cheese. Fill the dish 
in this way : First macaroni, then cheese, leaving cheese for 
the top ; upon the top put pieces of butter and salt, then, 
add a half cupful of milk. Bake covered a half hour, then 
brown nicely, and serve in the bake dish. 

Celery.— take the inside of a bunch of celery left from 
the soup, wash and scrape the stalks after removing the 
roots ; cut off all the leaves except the tender ones. Keep 
in cold water an hour before serving. Serve in a celery 
glass. 

Apple Fritters.— Make a batter of one egg, one cupful of 
milk, a little salt, and enough flour so the batter will drop 
off the spoon. Then add four apples chopped fine. Cook in 
boiling fat, like crullers. Serve with fine sugar. 

Demi Tasse Black Coffee.— Put a half cupful of finely 
ground coffee into a bag of cheese cloth. Take enough boil- 
ing water for four small cups of coffee, pour it twice 
through the coffee in the bag, then boil two minutes, and 
serve m after-dinner coffee-cups. 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 151 

BILL OF FAEE NO. 88. 

Eoast Pork. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes. 

Stewed Tomatoes. Mashed Potatoes. 

Cranberry Sauce. 

Celery. Coffee. Bread. 

Cream Biscuit. 

, Rice Pudding. Apples. 

COST. 

Pork, two and one half pounds, 38 cents ; potatoes, 7 cents ; 
tomatoes, 5 cents; cranberries, 5 cents; celery, 5 cents; cof- 
fee, 5 cents; bread, 8 cents; butter, 6 cents; rice pudding, 
13 cents ; apples, 5 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Roast Pork.— The shoulder, loin, fillet, saddle, leg, and 
sparerib are considered the roasting pieces. Remove the 
skin, dust plentifully with salt, pepper, and powdered 
sugar; bake in a hot oven, basting frequently; allow thirty 
minutes to the pound for roasting. Add a table spoonful of 
finely chopped cucumber pickle to the gravy, which, pre- 
pare as for other roasts. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes.— Wash, the potatoes, scrubbing 
them well with a stiff brush, and wipe dry. Place in a hot 
oven and bake for one hour if the potatoes are large ; small 
ones require less time. 

Steived Tomatoes.— Put half a can of tomatoes into a por- 
celain-lined stew-pan; set on the back part of the stove 
where they will boil slowly for half an hour ; season with 
pepper and salt, table-spoonful each of butter and sugar and 
half a teacupful of sifted cracker or bread crumbs. 

Mashed Potatoes.— Wash and pare the potatoes; boil in 
salted water. The moment the potatoes are done, drain, 
then return to the stove and mash, using the potato masher 
until not a lump remains. Have beaten in a clean, bright 
saucepan, half a cupful of cream or two thirds of a cupful 
of milk, one table-spoonful of butter, and salt to taste; beat 
this into the mashed potatoes until they are as light as possi- 
ble. Put into a warm tureen, make into a smooth mound, 
dust with white pepper and serve. 

Cranberry Sauce.— Wash a pint of cranberries, stew until 
quite soft ; strain through a colander and sweeten to taste. 

Cream Biscuit— One pint of sour cream, one teaspoonful 
of soda dissolved in water (warm) and stirred into the 
cream, the white of one egg well beaten and a little salt. 
When the cream foams nicely stir into it as quickly as pos- 



152 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

sible enough sifted flour to make a soft dough. Roll out, 
cut in biscuit form, and bake in a quick oven. 

Rice Pudding. — Soak half a teacupful of rice in a pint of 
milk until fully swelled ; add a pint of milk, two eggs, half 
a teacupful of sugar, one table-spoonful of butter, and a 
little grated nutmeg. Stir the ingredients well together, 
and bake until the pudding is well set, but do not allow to 
whey ; cover with a meringue made with the whites of the 
eggs. Eat cold or warm as preferred. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 89. 

Oyster Soup, with Crackers and Celery. 

Sirloin Steak. 

Mashed Potatoes. Spinach Salad. 

Rice Croquettes, with Drawn Butter. 

Baked Macaroni. 

Bread. Butter. 

DESSERT. 

Apple Float, with Cream. 
Coffee, with Milk and Sugar. 

COST. 

One pint oysters, 12 cents ; one-quarter pound crackers, 
2 cents; celery, 5 cents; two pounds sirloin steak, 25 cents; 
two pounds potatoes, 2i cents ; one quarter peck spinach, 5 
cents ; one quarter pound rice, 2 cents ; three ounces maca- 
roni, 2i cents; two ounces cheese, 2 cents; part of a loaf 
bread, 3 cents ; one quarter pound butter, 7 cents ; four eggs, 
9 cents ; one quart milk, 8 cents ; one half pound sugar, 4 
cents ; one quarter pint cream, 3 cents ; apples, 3 cents ; two 
and half ounces Java coffee, 5 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Oyster Soup.— Take one pint of oysters that are free from 
any particles of shell or sand, put them in a colander to 
drain, add half pint of water to the liquor, let it come to a 
boil, and skim carefully, then add one pint of boiling milk 
and the oysters, let them cook one minute, or until they are 
well plumped. Season with butter, pepper, and salt to taste. 
Serve in hot soup plates, with a crushed soda cracker in 
each one. Put a stalk of celery to each place upon the 
napkin. 

Beefsteak.— Take two pounds sirloin steak, trim and beat 
with a beefsteak hammer to break the fibre and make more 
tender, place upon a hot gridiron, not forgetting to grease 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 153 

the gridion with a scrap of fat from the steak, to keep it 
from sticking, and make it brown quickly, turn often. When 
done, place upon a hot platter, season with pepper, salt, and 
butter. Serve while hot. 

Potatoes. —Pare, and put in cold water, one hour before 
needed, put them on to boil in boiling water ; boil half an 
hour. Drain, dry, and mash, adding salt and milk, mash 
and rub around with the masher until white and light. Dish 
in a hot covered vegetable dish. 

Rice Croquettes.— Take one cup of washed rice, two cups 
boiling water ; boil one hour in double boiler, then stir in a 
small lump of butter and salt to taste. Turn out on dish to 
cool, when cool enough to work with the hands, make up in 
pyramidal shapes, dip in beaten egg and roll in cracker dust; 
fry a light brown. Stand them on a platter and pour drawn 
butter around them, made by rubbing one table -spoonful 
of flour with butter sufficient to make a smooth paste ; pour 
over one cup of boiling water. Let all boil up once more, 
add a pinch of pepper and salt. Lay sprigs of parsley 
around the edge of the platter. 

Baked Macaroni. — Take three ounces, about nine or ten 
long pieces, break in inch long pieces, boil three quarters of 
an hour in water enough to cover it. Drain off enough of 
the water that it is boiled in, to admit of half teacup of milk. 
Season with mustard, pepper, and salt, stir it around well to 
equalize the seasoning, then put in a baking dish and grate 
or crumble two ounces of cheese over the top. Drop little 
bits of butter here and there. Bake half an hour in brisk 
oven. Send to table in the baking-dish with a napkin wound 
around it. 

Spinach Salad. — Take quarter of a peck fresh spinach, 
look it over carefully, wash several times, or until free from 
sand. Let it remain in cold water an hour or two ; boil half 
an hour in salted water ; let the water be boiling when it 
is put in. To retain its natural green color, the saucepan or 
vessel that it is boiled in should not be covered. When done 
put it in a colander to drain ; when the water is pressed out, 
season with butter and pepper ; hash it up a little, using a 
knife and fork; place in a deep, oblong dish. Slice a hard 
boiled egg and lay around on the top, set the dish on a plat- 
ter that is considerably larger ; fill in all around the edges 
between the two dishes with curved celery. Some of the 
outside stalks will do, five to eight inches long; strip down 
in fine strips nearly the whole length, leaving just enough 
at the ends to hold together ; throw them in cold water. 
They will curl up in lovely little heads, in a short time. Let 
them lie in water until needed. This makes a very pretty 
garnish for various dishes. 



154 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

Apple Float.— Take four large, tart apples, stew in very 
little water, just enough to keep the apple from burning. 
They should be very dry when done; press through a col- 
ander and beat with a fork until smooth, adding half a cup- 
ful of sugar, when entirely cold. Stir in the whites of two 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; flavor with extract of lemon or 
vanilla. Send to table in a glass dish and serve with cream. 

Drip Coffee.— Put four heaping table-spoonfuls of ground 
Java coffee in the drip or upper compartment of a drip cof- 
fee-pot, and pour slowly four cupfuls of boiling water. Let 
it drip through a second time. The coffee should be kept 
very hot, but not allowed to boil. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 90. 

Bean Soup. 

Fried Chicken. 

Scalloped Potatoes. Baked Squash. 

Magenta Salad. 

Celery. Pickles. 

Hot Biscuit. Butter. 

Lemon Pudding. 

Chocolate with Whipped Cream. 

COST. 

Bean soup, with croutons, 5 cents; chicken, 30 cents; 
Magenta salad, 7 cents ; scalloped potatoes, 4 cents ; baked 
squash, 3 cents; celery, 4 cents; pickles, 3 cents; lemon, 
pudding, 18 cents; chocolate, 9 cents; cream, 3 cents; bis- 
cuits, 6 cents; butter, 5 cents; egg for chicken and parsley 
for salad. 3 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Bean Soup.—So'ik over night one and a half cupfuls white 
beans. In the morning pour off water and boil with two 
quarts hot water and a two inch cube of salt pork until the 
beans come to pieces; strain through colander and return to 
the stove ; add butter the size of a hickory nut the salt and 
pepper to taste ; serve with a half dozen half inch squares of 
toast on each soup plate. The beans will need to boil two 
and a half or three hours. 

Or French Vegetable Soup (Julienne).— Take carrots, 
parsnips, turnips, celery roofc, some cabbage and a couple of 
onions, clean and scrape them well, cut them into fine strips, 
and wash them very clean. Stew all this in a pan in butter 
for half an hour, add one quart of a first class extract 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 155 

of meat broth, made from a quart of water and a large tea 
spoonful of extract of meat, and let it simmer for an hour, 
having previously added the necesssry quantity of salt; then 
serve with fried bread as described in No. 6. 

Fried Chicken.— Cut the chicken up in the usual ay roll 
each piece first in beaten egg, salted, and then in flour, and 
fry in butter ; cover the frying-pan for the first ten or fifteen 
minutes so the chicken will steam a little and not burn ; fry 
slow until a golden brown. 

Scalloped Potatoes. — Cut three raw potatoes and two small 
onions into thin slices ; arrange in a baking dish, seasoning 
with pepper salt and small bits of butter ; pour over all two 
thirds of a cup of milk and bake an hour, or until the pota- 
toes are done when tried with a fork. 

Baked Squash. — Cut from a fine Hubbard squash eight 
pieces one inch wide and five inches long. Peel and bake 
until brown and tender. If thoroughly done and not burnt 
this surpasses sweet potatoes for richness and mealy quality. 

Magenta Salad.— Out into small pieces two medium sized 
boiled beets and two small steamed sweet potatoes. Mix 
thoroughly with the following salad dressing and garnish 
with small sprigs of parsley. 

Salad Dressing.— Beat the yelk of an egg with two table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar and two of water, one half teaspoonful 
of sugar, one half teaspoonful mustard, a pinch of salt, and 
cook in a bowl over the boiling tea kettle. Stir often that 
it may thicken evenly. When thick as mush stir in a piece 
of butter the size of a hickory nut, and when cold thin with 
two table-spoonfuls of cream. 

Biscuits.— Sift one pint of flour, a large pinch of salt, and 
four even teaspoonfuls of baking power. Mix with this a 
table-spoonful of butter and a half table-spoonful of lard. 
Add milk enough to make a soft dough. Knead barely 
enough to shape the dough. Roll and cut with biscuit cut- 
ter. Bake in quick oven twenty or twenty -five minutes. 

Lemon Pudding. — Stir together one and a half cupfuls of 
sugar, one fourth cupful of butter three eggs, one fourth 
cupful of water, one small cupful of bread crumbs and the 
juice and grated rind of one lemon. Bake in small pudding 
dish about a half hour. Serve warm. 

Chocolate. — Mix four table-spoonfuls grated chocolate with 
four table-spoonfuls of sugar. Heat two cupfuls of milk 
with two cupfuls of hot water. When boiling stir in choco- 
late and sugar until smooth. Serve with a table-spoonful of 
whipped cream on top of each cupful. Whip the cream when 
it is very cold with an egg beater. 

Buy small cucumber pickles if you did not put up any. 



156 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

BILL OF FAEE NO. 91. 

soup. 

Barley. 

Oyster Crisps. 

POULTRY. 

Eoast Chicken. 

VEGETABLES. 

Whipped Potatoes. Creamed Onions. 

Biscuits. Butter. 

DESSERT. 

Pumpkin Pie. Spiced Apples. 

Coffee, with Cream. 

COST. 

Soup meat, 5 cents; barley, 2 cents; vegetables, 1 cent; 
twelve solid oysters, 12 cents; bacon, 3 cents; chicken, 36 
cents ; bread crumbs, 1 cent ; potatoes, 3 cents ; onions, 3 cents ; 
flour, 6 cents; butter, 8 cents; apples, 3 cents; sugar, 3 cents; 
pumpkin, 3 cents; one egg, 2 cents; milk, 2 cents; coffee, 
5 cents; cream, 2. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Barley Soup.— Take one half cupful of barley, wash it; 
put in porcelain-lined kettle, with two quarts water. Let 
it soak over night ; boil until tender. Chop one half pound 
of beef and boil with the barley. One small onion, one half 
carrot cut in small pieces ; pepper, salt, and strain. 

Oyster Crisps. — Take twelve large oysters; wipe dry, roll 
them in rolled cracker crumbs. Have twelve slices of bacon 
cut as thin as possible; lay each oyster on a slice of bacon, 
crosswise. Fold the bacon over them and pin with a wooden 
toothpick. Put them in a frying-pan with a little lard, and 
fry until crisp. Serve hot. 

Roast Chicken, with Dressing.— Wash and dry the chicken, 
especially the inside, with a clean, dry towel; fill with dress- 
ing made of bakers' bread ; soak the bread crust in water about 
five minutes, crumb the soft part, not too fine ; add a little 
salt, pepper, a pinch of thyme, a small lump of butter. Mix 
lightly together and fill the chicken Eoast in good oven an 
hour. Gravy: Boil the giblets until very tender; chop the 
heart and gizzard very fine, mash the liver with one tea- 
spoonful of flour; put all in the water they were boiled in, 
let them boil up, then turn them in the pan the chicken was 
roasted in ; season with salt and pepper. Serve. 

Whipped Potatoes.— Peal six large potatoes, boil them un- 
til soft; drain and whip them with a potatoe-whipper until 
like cream. Half cup milk, inch square butter, some salt ; 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 157 

put in a dish. Have the top of the potatoes rough ; put small 
pieces of butter on ; sit in the oven to brown. Serve in same 
dish. 

Onions. — Boil eight onions until well done. Drain them; 
add a little butter, salt, pepper, a half cup of milk ; stir a 
spoonful of flour in the milk until smooth ; pour over the 
onions ; let them boil two minutes. Serve hot. 

Biscuit. — Take two cups of flour, teaspoonful of butter, 
rub it thoroughly through the flour ; one and a half tea- 
spoonfuls of royal baking powder, pinch of salt ; add water 
enough to mix well. This will make ten biscuits. Bake in a 
good oven fifteen minutes. 

Spiced Apples. — Take four apples, core them almost 
through ; fill them with sugar and a pinch of cinnamon, all- 
spice and cloves. Bake in a hot oven. Serve cold. 

Pumpkin Pie.— One pint of stewed pumpkin, strained, one 
cup milk, one egg, one teaspoonful of ground ginger, pinch 
salt, half cup granulated sugar ; mix well. Pie crust : large 
handful of flour, two table-spoonfuls of butter or lard, pinch 
of salt, good pinch of baking-powder, water enough to 
moisten into dough. Roll out and put in deep pie dish; fill 
with mixture, grate a little nutmeg on top. Put in oven ; 
bake in hot oven half hour. Serve cold. 

Coffee and Cream. — One half cup best coffee. Pour on 
one pint boiling water ; settle with a half cup cold water. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 92. 

Beef Soup. 

Roast Beef, Crab Apple Jelly. 

Mashed Potatoes. Mashed Turnips. 

Ham Sandwiches. Celery. 

Cabbage Salad, Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Entire Wheat Pudding, with Sauce. 

Nuts. Ice Cream. 

Coffee. 

COST. 

Beef, a two pound porterhouse roast, 35 cents; jelly, 2 
cents; four potatoes, 3 cents; one turnip, 1 cent; ham and 
pork 6 cents; bread, home made, 5 cents; celery, 10 cents; 
cabbage salad, 5 cents ; pudding, 5 cents ; sauce for same, 3 
cents; nuts, 10 cents; ice cream, 10 cents; coffee, 5 cents. 
Total, $1. 



158 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 



PREPARATION. 

RoastBeef. — Take two pounds of porterhouse roast; wash, 
then salt and pepper to taste ; roast in a steam roaster, with- 
out water, two hours. 

Soup. — After the beef is done take the juice to make the 
soup, which must be increased to a quart with water. A 
little cold, boiled rice may be put in, if desired, to thicken 
it. 

Or Asparagus Soup.— Clean the asparagus, cut it into 
pieces of equal length, boil till tender in water with some 
salt, put into a sieve and pour cold water on it. Then put 
some of Liebig Company's Extract of Meat broth (prepared 
by boiling in a quart of water a large teaspoonful of Liebig 
Company's Extract of Meat) on the fire till it boils, when the 
asparagus and small force-meat balls must be added ; let this 
simmer for a few minutes, and serve. If preferred, slices or 
dice of fried bread may be put into the tureen instead of the 
forcemeat balls. 

Crab Apple Jelly. — Wash a pint of crab apples, and take 
off the blow end ; boil in a little water (not enough to cover) 
until soft; strain off the juice, and allow a teacupfulof sugar 
to a teacuf ul of juice ; return to range and boil fifteen min- 
utes, then pour in jelly glasses. 

Mashed Potatoes. — Boil the potatoes in salted water and 
mash them through perforated potato masher; make 
smooth with a little milk and butter. 

Turnips.— They are cooked in the same manner as the po- 
tatoes. 

Ham Sandwiches. — Slice the bread half as thick as usual, 
and spread with a little butter ; then spread with boiled ham 
chopped in a family meat chopper ; lay two slices together 
and cut in shape of a triangle; arrange on china bread 
plate. 

Cabbage Salad. — Take three teacupfuls of chopped cab- 
bage, one and one half teacupfuls cold roast tenderloin 
chopped; mix them together; pour over them any mayon- 
naise dressing desired. 

Entire Wheat Pudding.— Take one cup of New Orleans 
molasses, one cup of raisins or other dried fruit, chopped, 
one cup sweet milk, two cups of entire wheat flour (or Gra- 
ham flour sifted if you do not have the other), one egg, one 
half teaspoonful of soda and a little salt; steam three hours. 
It can be steamed in the basin it is stirred in, and is enough 
for the dinner of eight persons. It is better steamed over 
for the second day's dinner, 

Sauce for Pudding. — Take one cup of sugar and one half 
pup of butter; beat them together to a cream, with the whitQ 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 159 

of an egg beaten stiff; just before using add a teacupful of 
boiling water, and set it in a dish of boiling water for a few 
minutes. 

Coffee. — Place one eighth pound of old government Java 
coffee in a coffee float and put in coffee-pot ; pour on four cof- 
fee cupfuls of boiling water ; boil ten minutes, then remove 
the float and serve, or it may be cooked in any coffee-pot if 
desired. 

Ice Cream— Take one pint of milk, three eggs, one half 
coffee cup sugar and one table-spoonful corn-starch ; heat the 
milk in a double boiler, then add the corn starch wet with a 
little cold milk; let them scald a minute, then add the sugar 
and eggs beaten together, and scald two or three minutes 
longer;" strain in the freezer, and when cold flavor with any 
flavoring you choose. Pound the ice fine and have plenty 
of salt and the cream will freeze in one half hour in any 
patent freezer. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 93. 

Cream of Rice Soup. 

Toad in the Hole. 

Little Pigs in Blankets. 

Potato Balls. 

Shrimp Salad. 

Log Cabin Pudding. 

Coffee. 

COST. 

Chicken stock and rice, 25 cents ; milk, one pint, 4 cents ; 
one half onion and celery, 5 cents; steak, one pound, 16 
cents ; one pint milk, 4 cents ; flour and eggs, 3 cents ; eight 
oysters, 8 cents ; bacon, one half pound, 8 cents ; four pota- 
toes, 2 cents ; jelly, 2 cents ; shrimps, and celery, 10 cents ; 
lady fingers, 6 cents; eggs, 4 cents; coffee, 3 cents. Total, 
$1. 

PREPARATION. 

Cream of Rice Soap. — One quart of chicken stock, one 
half cupful of rice, one pint milk, one half onion, one half 
stalk celery. Salt and pepper to taste. Add to the stock 
onion and celery. Simmer two hours. Put through sieve. 
Add seasoning and the milk, which has been allowed to come 
just to a boil. 

Toad in the Hole.— One pound of round steak, one pint 
milk, one cupful flour, one egg, salt, pepper. Cut steak in 
dice. Beat the egg light. Add milk to it, then half tea- 



160 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

spoonful salt. Pour upon the flour very gradually, beating 
light and smooth. Butter a two quart dish and in it put the 
meat. Season well and pour over it the batter. Bake an 
hour. Serve hot. 

Little Pigs in Blankets. — Take eight oysters wrap each one 
in a slice of bacon cut very thin, fasten with little wooden 
skewers, fry quickly in a hot spider, Serve on toast. 

Potato Balls.— Cut four balls out of raw potatoes; put in 
cold water; after boiled pour off water and dredge with salt 
and pepper; pour on a little melted butter. 

Shrimp Salad — One half can shrimps, rinse in cold water, 
break the shrimps in two or three pieces, add same quantity 
of chopped celery • over this pour a salad dressing. 

Log Cabin Pudding. — Eight lady fingers split and spread 
with jelly, lay upon a flat dish in cross bars, beat whites of 
two eggs and pour over the cabin, brown slightly in oven; 
make a custard of yelks of eggs to eat with it. 

Coffee.— Put four large spoonfuls of ground coffee into 
coffee-pot, mix with it the shell of an egg and four table- 
spoonfuls of cold water, stir until it boils, then set back and 
simmer for ten minutes, strain in a hot coffee-pot pour on 
four cupfuls of boiling water. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 94. 

Vegetable Soup. 

Browned Beef. 

Creamed Mashed Potatoes. 

Boiled Turnips. Creamed Onions. 

Macaroni and Cheese. 

Warm Slaw. Bread. 

Rolled Apple Pudding. 

Lemon Sauce. Oranges. 

Coffee. 

COST. 

Beef, 30 cents; vegetables for soup, 4 cents; potatoes, 5 
cents ; turnips, 3 cents ; onions, 4 cents ; macaroni, 4 cents ; 
cheese, 8 cents; warm slaw, 5 cents; bread, 3 cents; pudding, 
12 cents; lemon, 2 cents; egg, 2 cents; suga*, 3 cents; 
oranges, 12 cents; milk, 2 cents; corn-starch, 1 cent. Total, 
$1. 

PREPARATION. 

Soup.— -Wash beef and put into kettle to boil; pour cold 
water over it; cook till somewhat tender; take out beef; 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 1G1 

chop fine one onion, one carrot, third of a head of cabbage 
and third of a turnip and a few sticks of celery ; put into 
liquor that beef was boiled in ; cook one and a half hours ; 
season with salt and pepper. 

Or Macaroni Soup. — Half a pound of macaroni must bo 
broken up into pieces of equal size, boiled in salt water till 
soft, put into a sieve and cold water poured over it; then 
boil it up in two quarts of Liebig Company's Extract of 
Meat broth, made by boiling in a quart of water a large 
teaspoonful of Liebig Company's Extract of Meat, season to 
taste and serve with Parmesan cheese. 

Browned Beef. — Take beef and put into dripping-pan, with 
a little of the liquor that it was boiled in over it. Season 
with salt and pepper and dredge with flour. Bake brown, 
about one hour. Make gravy in pan after the meat is taken 
out. Thicken with browned flour and season with salt and 
pepper. 

Creamed Mashed Potatoes.— Boil five potatoes until tender, 
drain and mash, add one table-spoonful of butter, half tea- 
spoonful of salt, three table-spoonfuls of milk. Beat with 
wire masher or fork until creamy. 

Turnips. — Boil half a turnip till tender, mash fine, add one 
table-spoonful of butter and half teaspoonful of salt and 
same of white pepper. 

Creamed Onions. — Boil eight or nine onions, pour off water, 
return to range, add third cupful of milk, pepper, salt, and 
two table-spoonfuls of butter. Heat them. Then serve in 
hot dish. 

Macaroni and Cheese. — Break two cupfuls of macaroni in 
fine bits. Cook in salted boiling water until tender. Drain 
in a colander. Grease a pudding dish. Then put a layer of 
macaroni, then cheese and little pieces of butter; then a 
layer of macaroni again, then cheese till dish is full. Cover 
quite freely with cheese on top and butter also. Pour one 
cupful of milk over it. Cook in oven, covered, one half 
hour. Then remove cover and brown nicely. 

Warm Slaiv. — Chop one half head of cabbage. Cook in 
water till done. Pour off water. Add one half cupful vine 
gar, one table-spoonfnl of butter, pepper and salt. Heat it 
and serve at once. 

Rolled Apple Pudding.— One pint of flour, unsifted; three 
pints of pared and chopped apples, one cupful of sug;ar, 
four table-spoonfuls of butter, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, half a teaspoonful of salt and one cupful of water. 
Mix well in a sieve, then rub through it the flour, salt, bak- 
ing power and two table-spoonfuls of sugar. Rub a table- 
spoonful of butter into this mixture, then stir in water. 
When a smooth dough has been formed turn out on a mold- 



162 ONE HUNDRED PEIZE DINNERS. 

ing board. Roll to thickness of about a quarter of an inch. 
Spread two table-spoonfuls of butter on the dough and 
sprinkle one third of a cupful of sugar over. Now spread 
the chopped apples upon dough, and after grating a quarter 
of a nutmeg over it, sprinkle with remainder of sugar. Roll 
up the same as jelly cake and cut into pieces about an inch 
and a half long ; spread the remaining table-spoonful of but- 
ter on bottom of cake pan ; place the pieces of the roll on end 
in pan and bake for a half hour in a moderate oven. Serve 
with lemon sauce. 

Lemon Sauce. — Mix one saltspoonful of salt, half a tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar and one table-spoonful of corn 
starch with half a cupful of cold water. Pour one cupful and 
a half of boiling water on this mixture and place over the 
fire. Add the yellow rind of lemon cut in thin shavings and 
simmer for half an hour. Beat the white of an egg to a stiff 
froth; gradually beat into it one cupful of powdered sugar; 
next the juice of lemon ; finally the yelk of egg. Strain the 
boiling mixture upon this one and use sauce at once. 

Coffee. — Five table-spoonfuls of coffee mixed with one egg. 
Pour boiling water on it. Let it boil up once. Add two 
table-spoonfuls of cold water. Serve in after dinner coffee 
cups. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 95. 

SOUP. 

Bisque of Clams. 

ROAST. 

Pork Tenderloin stuffed with Brown Gravy. 

VEGETABLES. 

Baked Turnips with White Sauce. 
Stuffed Potatoes. 

RELISHES. 

Cucumber Pickles, Currant Jelly. 

Vienna Bread, Butter Pats. 

Cardinal Salad. 

DESSERT. 

Boiled Fruit Pudding with Brandy Sauce. 

FRUIT. 

Oranges, Bananas, Grapes. 
Coffee. 

COST. 

Twelve clams, 6 cents; butter, milk, flour and eggs, 6 
cents; one pound pork tenderloin, 14 cents; piece salt pork 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 163 

for same, 1 cent; dressing for same, 4 cents; one turnip, 1 
cent ; sauce for same, 3 cents ; four potatoes, 2 cents ; season- 
ing for same, 2 cents ; half bunch celery, 6 cents ; mayon- 
naise dressing, 4 cents ; four cucumber pickles, 1 cent ; half 
glass currant jelly, 4 cents; one quarter loaf Vienna bread, 
3 cents ; one and one half ounces butter, 3 cents ; fruit pud- 
ding, 10 cents ; sauce for same, 10 cents ; one ounce ground 
coffee, 3i cents ; four teaspoonf uls cream, 2 cents ; four cuts 
loaf sugar, 1£ cents ; one orange, 3 cents ; 3 bananas, small, 5 
cents ; one half pound catawba grapes, 5 cents ; parsley for 
garnishing, 1 cent. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION.. 

Bisque of Clams.- Twelve clams chopped; one half an 
onion chopped fine ; one quart water ; boil half an hour, then 
strain ; add half pint milk, then return to the fire, and when 
it comes to a boil, add piece of butter size of a walnut, 
rubbed with a teaspoonf ul of flour, and a very little soda. 
Have the whites of two eggs and the yelk of one beaten 
carefully, and placed in a tureen ; and pour the hot mixture 
slowly over them, stirring constantly. If too rich more 
water can be added. 

Roast Pork Tenderloin. — Split the thick ends of the tender- 
loin, then lay them out flat, reversing the ends, and if any 
space appears, fill up with slices cut from the thick ends; 
stuff with a dressing of grated bread crumbs and half of a 
small onion, also grated; a little sage, salt, and pepper, 
yelk of one egg beaten light, and a little melted butter ; mix 
all together and place on the tenderloin ; form in a roll by 
bringing the two sides together, then press the ends to- 
gether, and secure by winding around many times with 
string, place in a baking-pan, season with salt, pepper, and 
a little sage : place thin strips of salt pork over the top ; put 
a very little water in the pan, adding more as required. 
Bake half an hour, basting frequently at first. Eemove the 
string when done, and serve. Garnish with parsley. 

Gravy for Meat.— Blend a teaspoonf ul of flour with a little 
water ; stir this with the drippings in the pan after the meat 
has been removed ; add two thirds teacupf ul of water ; boil 
up once and serve in a gravy boat. 

Baked Turnips. — One large turnip, sliced, and placed in 
water for two hours. Then boil in salted water until tender ; 
drain, lay in a baking dish, dust with powdered cracker ; 
pour over white sauce, put in a very hot oven and brown. 
Carefully remove to a china dish, and serve. 

White Sauce.— One heaping teaspoonf ul butter, and one of 
flour; put in a saucepan, stir until it boils; add half pint 
milk, stirring closely to blend it well. 



164 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

Stuffed Potatoes.— Take large, fair potatoes; bake until 
soft, and cut a round piece off the top of each. Scrape out 
the inside carefully, so as not to break the skin, and set 
aside the empty cases with the covers. Mash the inside very 
smoothly, working into it while hot, some butter and cream, 
about half a teaspoonf ul of each, for every potatoe. Season . 
with salt and pepper, work soft with milk, and put into a 
saucepan to heat ; stirring, to prevent burning. When hot 
fill the skins with the mixture ; replacing the caps. Return 
them to the oven for three minutes; arrange upon a napkin 
in a deep dish, the caps uppermost ; cover with a fold of the 
napkin, and eat hot. 

Cardinal Salad. — Cut the stalks of celery in little bits, 
half inch long. Take one teaspoonful salad oil, and two 
table-spoonfuls of vinegar and a pinch of salt; mix this 
thoroughly through the celery and lay on salad dish ; then 
pour over the top a mayonnaise dressing made in the fol- 
lowing way : 

Mayonnaise Dressing.— Put a good pinch of salt, a little 
cayenne pepper, half teaspoonful of made mustard, and the 
yelk of one egg in a soup plate. Beat all together a moment, 
then add salad oil, drop by drop, stirring all the time. If it 
shows signs of breaking add vinegar, then more oil, etc., 
until two table-spoonfuls are made, then thin with vinegar. 
For coloring use the following: 

Coloring for Mayonnaise Dressing. — Take half of a blood 
beet ; chop fine and add a little water ; boil until juice is ex- 
tracted. Then strain, return to the fire, and boil down. To 
insure success the dressing must be made in a cool room, 
having all utensils and materials cold, also. 

Boiled Fruit Pudding. — Half cup molasses, half cup sweet 
milk, half a cup finely chopped suet, two cups flour, half cup 
chopped raisins, half a cup of currants. Warm the molasses 
and stir into it a scant, half teaspoonful soda ; mix the suet 
with the flour, and stir together; half teaspoonful cinnamon, 
half teaspoonful of cloves and allspice mixed. Place in but- 
tered pudding mold, and boil or steam two hours. 

Brandy Sauce for Pudding. — Put half pint hot water in 
small vessel and set in saucepan of boiling water; mix half 
cup of sugar with quarter cup butter to a cream, add this to 
the half pint water, and stir until thick, add table-spoonful 
of brandy just previous to serving. 

Butter Pats. — Take one and one half ounces butter a.nd 
roll into balls about the size of hickory nuts. This will make 
six. Roll the butter between two wooden paddles, which are 
grooved for that purpose ; ,soak them in boiling water a mo- 
ment, and allow to cool in cold water. Serve these on a 
decorated china plate. 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 165 

Coffee. — Take one ounce of ground coffee, and which is-; 
equivalent to four heaping table-spoonfuls ; place in a percol- 
ating coffee-pot, add three quarters pint boiling water, placo 
in hot place on the range, and allow to percolate. Serve in 
after-dinner coffee cups. 

Fruit. —Arrange tastefully in a pretty fruit dish, cutting 
the oranges diametrically. 



BILL OF FARE. NO. 96. 

Vegetable Soup. 

Eoast Chicken, with Gravy. 

Veal Chops, Breaded. 

Mashed Potatoes. Baked Sweet Potatoes. 

Onions. Cream Cauliflower. 

Celery. 

Bread. Butter. 

Cocoanut Cream, with Jelly. 

COST. 

Soup meat, 5 cents; barley and vegetables, 4 cents; 
chicken, 25 cents; veal chops, 12 cents; white potatoes, 3 
cents ; sweet potatoes, 4 cents ; onions, 3 cents ; cauliflower, 
6 cents; celery, 3 cents; bread, 7 cents; butter, 7 cents; milk, 
5 cents ; sugar, 3 cents ; one egg, 2 cents ; condensed cocoanut 
cream, 5 cents; jelly, 3 cents; coffee, 3 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Vegetable Soup. — Put the beef with marrow bone on to 
boil with three quarts of cold water; boil until tender. 
Chop enough cabbage to make one half cup. Then slice a 
medium sized onion, scrape one half carrot, cut a small 
turnip in dice shape; cut a small potato the same as turnip, 
chop a little parsley fine and add a tablespoonful of barley. 
Put all together in a saucepan and boil until nearly done. 
Then drain the stock into the vegetables through a coarse 
sieve and cook all together a half hour, and serve according 
to custom. 

Roast Chicken. — Singe, drain and wash thoroughly, wipe 
dry, fill with the following dressing: Four slices of stale 
bread soaked in water, . squeeze dry, add tablespoonful of 
butter, teaspoonful of baking powder, one half cupful of 
milk, summer savory, salt and pepper to taste, mix all 
thoroughly together, fill the chicken with the dressing, sew 



166 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

up the opening, place the chicken on its back in a covered 
roasting pan with the giblets, bake in a hot oven until 
done, remove lo serving dish and place in the oven to keep 
warm while preparing the gravy. If not having a roasting 
pan place the chicken in an ordinary pan and let it brown, 
nicely all over, then cover closely with another pan the same 
size, and let it remain until done. 

Gravy. — Take the giblets and chop fine. Thicken the 
gravy with a teaspoonful of flour stirred smooth in water. 
Add the giblets and let boil one half minute. Serve in 
gravy boat. 

Veal Chops. Breaded — Four small veal chops off the ribs. 
Roll in bread crumbs and fry in half butter and half lard 
ten minutes, over a medium fire, so as not to burn the 
crumbs ; garnish with parsley and serve. 

Mashed White Potatoes.— Peel and wash four large 
potatoes. Boil until done. Drain and mash. Add small 
piece butter, one half cup of milk, salt and pepper. Beat 
light with a fork. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes. — W ash four sweet potatoes. Bake 
in hot oven antil done ; then cut off the end and remove the 
inside and season with salt and pepper and butter ; then put 
back in the shell ; serve hot in napkins. 

Onions. —Boil six medium sized onions until tender ; drain 
off the water, put in half cup of milk, small piece of butter, 
a little pepper and salt ; cook slowly fifteen minutes ; serve 
in side dishes. 

Cream Cauliflower.— Cut one half head of cauliflower in 
small pieces ; soak in cold water one hour ; then put on to 
boil with enough water to cover it; cook thirty minutes; 
drain and serve with cream dressing made of one fourth cup 
water, one half cup of milk, teaspoonful of flour rubbed 
smooth in water, teaspoonful of butter, a little salt and pep- 
per ; stir all together and boil two minutes ; pour over the 
cauliflower ; serve in side dishes. 

Celery.— Take one third of a bunch of celery; cut off root, 
wash and place in a celery glass with a little water in it. 

Coconut Cream.— Put one half condensed cocoanut cream 
to soak in a cup of milk two hours. Put a cup of milk in 
a pail, set the pail in a kettle of boiling water. Let the 
milk come to a boiling point. Then stir in a well beaten egg. 
Add the cocoanut and cook for five minutes, stirring often. 
"When done put in four molds, place on ice to get cold. 
Serve with jelly, cut diamond shape. 

Coffee.— Put four table-spoonfuls of Java and Mocha coffee 
in a cup of cold water in a coffee pot, Add an egg shell and 
let come to a boil. Add four cups of boiling water. Settle 
with a tablespoonf ul of cold water and set on the back of the 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 167 

stove until ready to serve. Serve with cream. Get a quart 
of milk. Let it stand over night and remove the cream for 
the coffee. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 97. 

SOUP. 

Oyster. 

MEAT. 

Chicken, with Gravy. 

VEGETABLES. 

Sweet Potatoes. Celery. 

SALAD. 

Cream Cabbage Salad. 
. Bread. Butter. 

DESSERT. 

Mince Pie. 
Coffee. 

COST. 

Oysters, 1 pint, 15 cents ; milk, 1 quart, 6 cents ; crackers, 
4 cents; bread, 5 cents; butter, 5 cents; one egg, 2 cents; 
potatoes, 1 quart, 3 cents; celery, 8 cents; coffee, 2 cents; 
sugar, 2 cents; flour-, 2 cents; I cabbage, 2 cents; chicken 
30 cents ; 1 pie, 15 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Oyster Soup. — Put in a porcelain kettle one pint of oys- 
ters ; as soon as they come to a boil, add one and one half 
pints of sweet milk ; when the whole comes to a boil, add 
one table-spoonful of butter, salt and pepper to taste, and 
just before serving crumble a few crackers into each plate. 

Roast Chicken.— Get a young chicken, split it open on the 
hack, lay it in a dripping-pan, put here and there little 
lumps of butter upon it, add salt and pepper, and pour in a 
little hot water ; put in a hot oven, and baste it well every 
five minutes, it will not be any too often, and let it bake 
three quarters of a hour. When done take out, put on a 
platter, and garnish with sprigs of the celery. 

Gravy.— After taking out the chicken, cut the giblets up 
fine. Take a teaspoonful of flour, smooth out with a little 
cold water. Add to your grease a teacupful of boiling wa- 
ter, and pour in your paste, stirring all the while ; salt and 
pepper to suit the taste, and you will have a delicious gravy. 

Sweet Potatoes.— Take a quart of potatoes of an equal size, 



168 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

and put in a steamer to steam, and if they are not too large, 
they should steam in half an hour ; when they can be pierced 
with a fork they are done ; take out and peel them, and they 
are ready to be served. 

Cream Cabbage.— Take half a head of cabbage, cut very 
fine. Put in a pan on the stove. One table-spoonful of 
vinegar, one of mustard, one of sugar, one of butter, and a 
teaspoonf ul of salt and pepper, and let come to a boil. Beat 
one egg into a bowl, add one half cupful of sweet milk, and 
a table-spoonful of flour that has has been smoothed out 
with water. Pour in the cabbage, and then add the con- 
tents of the bowl. Cook for about ten minutes, and stir. 

Every housekeeper knows how to make coffee and pies, 
so it will be quite unnecessary to give full directions. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 98. 

SOUP. 

■Vegetable Soup. 
Fried Oysters. 

GAME. 

Boiled Rabbit. Onion Sauce. 

VEGETABLES. 

Potato Finger Puffs. Mashed Turnips. 
Stewed Tomatoes. Bread. 

DESSERT. 

Boiled Fruit Suet Pudding. Wine Sauce. 
Coffee. 

COST. 

Soup stock, 3 cents ; soup vegetables, 3 cents ; oysters, 1G 
cents; rabbit, 20 cents; potatoes, 3 cents; turnips, 3 cents; 
tomatoes, 5 cents; bread, 3 cents; butter, 6 cents; milk, 2 
cents ; onions, 2 cents ; eggs, 5 cents ; sugar, 4 cents ; raisins, 
4 cents; citron, 3 cents; suet, 2 cents; flour and baking 
powder, 5 cents; 1 wine glassful sherry, 4 cents; parsley, 1 
cent ; crackers, 1 cent ; coffee, 5 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Vegetable Soup. — Three cents' worth of shin bone, boiled 
hi two quarts of water, six hours. Strain liquor off, and 
put on the stove, and add one small turnip and carrot, 
chopped fine, and two table-spoonfuls; let boil one hour, 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 169 

and then add a leak (cut up fine), parsley and celery. Sea- 
son to taste, and let boil ten minutes. 

Fried Oysters. — Sixteen large oysters to fry. Drain and 
lay on a cloth. Beat one egg, and roll two soda crackers 
fine. Dip in egg, and roll in crackers, and fry in beef drip- 
ping to a light brown. Place on hot platter, and garnish 
with parsley. 

Boiled Rabbit.— Skin and clean one large rabbit. Let it 
lay in cold water twenty minutes; then sew it into a thin, 
clean, white piece of cloth, and put on in tepid water, suf- 
ficient to cover. Boil gently one hour and a half, season 
with salt. Remove cloth, place on hot platter, and garnish 
with parsley. 

Onion Sauce. — Butter size of one half egg, put in sauce- 
pan ; while melting, add one table-spoonful of flour, and rub 
smooth ; add one half tea cupful tepid water, stirring con- 
tinually, and then one teacupful of milk. Have ready two 
onions (that have been boiled in two waters), chopped, and 
add to sauce just before removing from fire. If onions are 
not liked, substitute parsley in their place. 

Potato Finger Puffs. — Four potatoes, pared and boiled 
until soft. Mash with a little milk and butter, and put aside 
to cool. When cold, add one egg, and beat five minutes, 
with a silver fork. With floured hands mold into finger 
puffs, and fry to a light brown in beef dripping. Serve on 
hot side dishes. 

Mashed Turnips. — Pare two large yellow turnips, and cut 
into slices one quarter inch thick. Let stand in cold water 
fifteen minutes. Boil one hour in salted water. Drain and 
mash. Put in hot vegetable dish, and dot with pepper. 

Stewed Tomatoes. — One half can of tomatoes ; put in sauce- 
pan and stew one hour. Add piece of butter the size of a 
walnut, and grated bread crumbs. Season to taste. All 
dinner dishes should be warmed in top oven. 

Beef Dripping. — Remove most of the marrow from shin 
bone, and put it in a pan in the oven until melted ; strain 
into bowl and use. 

Boiled Fruit Suet Dumpling. — One cupful of suet chopped 
very fine, add two cupfuls of sifted flour, one teaspoonful 
baking powder, and one half teaspoonful of salt, one half 
cupful of sug-ar, and a little grated nutmeg, one teacupful 
of stoned raisins, and the citron cut into thin slices ; moisten 
with enough water to make a stiff batter. Have a pot of 
boiling water ready ; dip your pudding cloth into the boiling 
water, spread on the table, and sprinkle with flour. Put 
the pudding in the center of the cloth, and tie loosely. 
Have an old plate or saucer in bottom of the pot. Put pud- 
ding in and boil one hour and a half. 



170 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

Wine Sauce.— Butter one half size of an egg, put in sauce- 
pan ; while melting, rub in a dessert spoonful of flour. Take 
some of the water the pudding was cooked in and let it cool, 
and take one cupful and a half and stir in, and one half cup- 
ful sugar. Stir in the water, a little at a time until boiling. 
Let boil one minute; add one wine glassful of sherry after 
taking from the fire. 

Coffee,— Four table-spoonfuls of Java and Mocha freshly 
ground; mix thoroughly with one half an egg. Pour one 
half cupful of cold water and set on the fire and let boil 
two minutes, then add one pint of boiling water. Take 
the other half of the egg, and beat thoroughly into two 
table-spoonfuls of cream ; put sugar and the beaten cream 
into cup first, and stir constantly while pouring coffee in. 



BILL OF FARE NO. 99. 

SOUP. 

Oyster. Celery. 

ROAST. 

Pork, Garnished Parsley. 

Cranberry Sauce. 

White Potatoes Roasted. Mashed Sweet Potatoes. 

Graham Rolls. 

Salad. 

Tomato Valiette. 

DESSERT. 

Orange Pudding. 
Cocoa. 

COST. 

Oyster soup, 20 cents; pork, 36 cents; cranberry sauce, 6- 
cents; white potatoes, 2 cents; mashed sweet potatoes, 4 
cents; Graham rolls, 5 cents; tomato valiette, 3 cents; 
orange pudding, 18 cents; parsley, 2 cents; cocoa, 4 cents. 
Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Oyster Soup.— Hake one pint of stew oysters and strain 
the liquor from them. Put the liquor on to boil with one 
half pint of water, one large tablespoon ful of celery leaves 
and one small onion chopped fine, pepper and salt. When it 
boils, add the oysters ; then thicken with one spoonful of 
flour, creamed in the yelk of one egg and a very little milk. 
Pour a little of the hot soup gradually upon the mixture, 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 1 7 J 

stirring it all the while ; as soon as well mixed, pour into 
the soup, then add one half pint of milk and a small piece 
of butter. Let all come to a boil and pour into a tureen 
over small squares of toasted bread. Serve very hot. 

Roast.— In roasting a small piece of meat much is gained 
by basting often. When done, garnish with parsley. Brown 
the flour to thicken the gravy. 

Cranberry Sauce.— One pint of cranberries, stew in a 
little water until tender. Put through colander, then add a 
cup of sugar. 

White Potatoes.— Four good sized white potatoes nicely 
baked. Two pounds sweet potatoes, boil; when done and 
dry, put through a vegetable press to remove all lumps. 
Add butter, milk and salt. Beat with a fork until very 
light. 

Graham Rolls.— One cup of sweet milk; one egg; one 
table- spoonful of sugar. Two teaspoonfuls cream tartar, 
one of soda, a little salt, a table-spoonful butter ; one large 
cup of Graham flour. They should be about as thick as for 
griddle cakes. Have your gem irons hot and bake in a 
quick oven. 

Tomato Valiette.—Take one small half pint of tomatoes, 
add three table-spoonfuls ot vinegar, three of flour; mix the 
flour in a little juice of the tomato so as to remove all 
lumps before adding to the whole. Then add pepper and 
salt to taste, and a small piece of butter. Let all come to a 
boil. Make a crust the same as for a small pie, only make 
four large tarts; fill with the tomato. Place two thin slices 
of onion on the top of each one and bake in a quick oven. 
When done remove the top slice and serve hot. 

Orange Pudding. — Peal and cut five oranges in thin slices, 
remove the seeds. Pour over them a coffee cupful of white 
sugar. Heat a pint of milk boiling hot by sitting it in boil- 
ing water. Add the yelks of three eggs well beaten. One 
table-spoonful of corn starch made smooth with a little cold 
milk ; stir all the time ; when thickened, pour it over the 
fruit. Care must be taken that it does not whey. Beat the 
whites to a stiff froth, add a table-spoonful of sugar, and 
spread on the top as a frosting. Set in the oven two or 
three minutes to harden. 

Cocoa.— Take four large teaspoonfuls of the powder, turn 
over it a little boiling water, and boil five minutes. Then 
add enough water to make four cups. Add milk and 
sugar to suit the taste. 



172 ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 

BILL OF FARE NO. 100. 

SOUP. 

Black Bean. 

MEATS. 

Boiled Pigs' Feet. Pot Roast Beef. 

VEGETABLES. 

Cabbage. Beets. Carrots. 
Sweet Potatoes. Celery 

DESSERT. 

Cream Pie, Bananas and Cream. 
Bread. Coffee. 

COST. 

Soup, 6 cents ; pigs' feet, 6 cents ; pot roast, 25 cents ; cab- 
bage, 7 cents; carrots and beets, 6 cents; potatoes, 5 cents; 
celery, 10 cents ; milk, 4 cents ; eggs, 5 cents ; flour, 4 cents ; 
butter, 5 cents ; bananas, 3 cents ; sugar, 4 cents ; bread, 5 
cents ; coffee, 5 cents. Total, $1. 

PREPARATION. 

Soup. — Take one cupful of black beans, wash and boil 
in two quarts of water, with fat, salt pork, cut in small 
pieces. Boil slowly two hours, or until the beans are soft ; 
rub through the colander, return to fire; add one tea- 
spoonful of Worcestershire sauce. Serve with three cor- 
nered pieces of bread by each plate. 

Pig's Feet.— Scrape and scald until they are nice and 
white, cover with boiling salted water; boil until they can 
be split easily ; serve one half on hot plate. Cabbage boiled 
in same water. The feet can be kept in warm oven, or the 
cabbage can be cooked with the feet. Cabbage to be served 
with pigs' feet. 

Beets. — Boil, chop fine while hot; add salt, pepper, little 
butter, one half cupful vinegar. Serve in vegetable dish. 

Carrots to be cooked with pot roast. 

Ask your butcher for a pot roast, twenty-five cents' 
worth will be enough. Have iron pot with legs on to cook 
it in. Place an old saucer in bottom of pot to prevent burn- 
ing. The butcher will give you a piece of suet, chop it 
fine, sprinkle it over the meat, with little flour, salt, and 
pepper. Lay it in pot with about one pint of hot water. 
Wash and scrape carrots (two plenty), slice them around 
and over the meat, cover and cook slowly about two hours. 
The juice from the meat and carrots make a delicious 
gravy. 

Sweet Potatoes. —To be baked and served with the meat. 



ONE HUNDRED PRIZE DINNERS. 173 

Celery.— Usual way. 

Cream Pie.— Take one cup of sugar, one table-spoonful 
butter, lay on sugar, pour over one table-spoonful of boiling 
water ; add the yelk of one egg and beat to a cream ; one 
half cup of milk ; two cups of prepared flour ; one teaspoon- 
ful of vanilla; bake in a quick oven in round cream pie tin; 
have tin well greased and floured ; when a straw will not 
adhere, turn it out on a plate same size as cake. Filling 
take one cupful milk, one tablespoonful sugar; let it come 
to a boil in double boiler. Rub one teaspoonful flour, little 
cold milk, beat in the yelk of one egg, stir in the boiling 
milk until it is creamy; remove from fire; place in cold 
water and stir till cool ; add a little salt and little vanilla. 
Split the cake with sharp thin knife, spread the cream on 
the under part, replace the top ; now beat the whites of the 
two eggs to a stiff froth, little sugar spread on top of the pie, 
and brown in a quick oven two or three minutes. 

Bananas. — Peal and slice round; place lightly in pretty 
glass dish ; set on the ice or in a cold place ; when ready to 
serve dust on a little sugar and cream from the top of a 
bottle of milk. There will be cream enough for bananas 
and coffee and one half of the bottle will be all you will 
need for rest of the cooking. 

Coffee. — Take four tablespoonfuls Java and Mocha mixed, 
place in the pot one half cup cold water and the egg-shells 
broken fine, gradually heat; pour on four cups boiling 
water, When the froth begins to rise set it on the back of 
the range to settle. 



All About Eggs. 



OK HUNDRED AND FIFTY WATS 

—OF— 

COOKING i SERVING EGGS 

— FOR— 

BREAKFASTS, DINNERS, ETC., AS ENTREES, 

ENTREMETS, CAKES, CREAMS, 

AND DRINKS. 



J torn Receives by Car erne, Savarin, Baron de Brisse, Franca- 
telli, Soyer, Suzanne, and other less known Chefs. 



EGG COOKERY. 

•>■■;>*£-■— 
1.— Boiled and Poached Eggs. 

There are four ways of boiling eggs, and it is of 
coursE most essential that the eggs should be per- 
fectly fresh. 

(a) Put the eggs in boiling water, and let them 
simmer for three minutes if they are small, and half 
a minute longer if large. 

(b) Put the eggs into a stewpan of cold water, and 
place it on a brisk fire. As soon as the water boils, 
the eggs will be sufficiently cooked. 

(c) Place the eggs in a stewpan of boiling water, 
and withdraw it from the fire ; keep the vessel covered, 
and in six minutes the eggs will be done. 

(d) Steam the eggs for four minutes in a potato- 
steamer. 

The second way is preferable to the others, as the 
white is rendered more creamy, and mixes better with 
the yolk when in contact with the egg-spoon. 

2.— Poached Eggs for Soup. 

Have ready a stewpan of boiling water, to which 
add a little salt and half a wine-glass of white vinegar. 
Place the stewpan on the side of the fire, so that the 
water is kept boiling gently ; break each egg in a tea- 
cup, and let it drop carefully into the water ; repeat 



4 EGG COOKERY. 

the operation until there are four or five eggs in the 
stewpan, which withdraw from the fire and keep 
covered for three minutes. Then take the eggs out 
with a slice, and put them in a basin of cold water. 
When about to serve the soup, cut off the superfluous 
white which adheres to the poached eggs, and warm 
them in a little clear soup. When hot, put them 
carefully in the soup-tureen. It is, however, prefer- 
able to serve the eggs separate, either in a soup-plate 
or silver dish; as by putting them in the tureen with 
the soup, you run the risk of having them broken 
with the soup-ladle. 

3.— Poached Eggs with Spinach. 

Having washed, boiled and drained some spinach, 
pass it through a coarse wire-sieve ; put it into a stew- 
pan, and stir it on the fire for a few minutes with a 
lump of butter, pepper, salt, a pinch of sugar, and a 
little grated nutmeg. When the spinach is quite hot, 
add a spoonful of white sauce, a little glaze,and about 
four ounces of fresh butter. Work the whole to- 
gether with a wooden spoon until well mixed. When 
ready to serve, pile up the spinach in the centre of 
the dish. Poach half-a-dozen fresh eggs, trim them, 
and dish them lightly on the spinach. Place between 
each egg a crouton of fried bread cut in crescent- 
shape. 

4.— Poached Eggs and Bacon. 

Poach the eggs as in the foregoing recipe, drain 
them on a napkin, and dish them up on some toast 
cut to the size of the eggs. Fry some very thin slices 
of bacon, and lay them round the poached eggs. 



EGG COOKERY. 

5.— Poached Eggs a la Provencale. 

Slice two onions, and fry them in oil. When they 
are of a nice light-brown colour, drain off the oil, and 
put them back in the stewpan, with a little thyme, 
half a bay-leaf, a few pepper-corns, a pinch of salt, 
four or five sliced mushrooms, and six cut-up toma- 
toes. Add a little broth and a small piece of glaze. 
Let the whole simmer for twenty minutes; then pass 
the sauce through a cloth, thicken it with a little 
flour, let it throw off the scum by boiling it gently 
on the corner of the stove for a few minutes, and 
sauce the poached eggs, which have been previously 
dished, on some toast cut to the size of the eggs. 

6.— Eggs poached in their Shells. 

For these, as for poached eggs, it is very necessary 
that the eggs be perfectly fresh. Put them into a 
stewpan of boiling water, and let them simmer for 
five minutes. Take the eggs out with a slice, and 
put them in a basin of cold water for ten minutes ; 
then carefully remove the shells, and put back the 
eggs in cold water, so as to preserve their whiteness. 
When about to serve, warm them in a little white 
stock, or in water to which a little salt has been added. 



7.— Eggs Poached in Balls. 

Put three pints of boiling water into a stewpan ; 
set it on a hot stove or coals; stir the water with a 
stick until it runs rapidly around, then having brok- 
en an egg into a cup, taking care not to break the 
yolk, drop it into the whirling water; continue to 
stir it until the egg is cooked; then take it into a 



6 EGG COOKERY. 

dish with a skimmer and set it over a pot of boiling 
water; boil one at a time, until you have enough. 
These will remain soft for a long time. 

8.— Eggs a la Reine. 

As in the recipe, No. 6 boil the eggs for five 
minutes, shell them, and keep them in cold water. 

Take the meat of a boiled or roasted chicken, and 
pound it in a mortar with two ounces of butter and 
two spoonfuls of good Bechamel sauce; season with 
salt, pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and pass it 
through a hair-sieve. When about to serve, warm 
up the puree, stirring it all the time, taking care not 
to let it boil. Should it be too tick, add a little cream 
ar white sauce, and dish it up. Garnish round with 
sippets of fried bread or toast, and place the eggs on 
the top of the puree in a circular row, separating them 
with a crouton of tongue or truffle half-moon shape. 
The puree may also be dished up in a bread croustade 
or a rice border. 

9.— Poached Eggs, with Anchovy Butter. 

Boil six eggs for five minutes, and proceed as in 
the recipe No. 8. Take a stale loaf of white bread, 
pare away the crust, cut the crumb into slices one 
inch in thickness, and with an oval cutter stamp out 
half a dozen pieces the size of an egg. Make an in- 
cision with the point of a small knife all round the 
edge of the croustades; fry them in hot lard or in 
good oil. When of a nice light colour, the incised 
disc will be easily removed, as also the crumb from 
the interior. Place an egg sideways in each of the 



EGG COOKERY. 7 

croustades, and sauce over with some Bechamel sauce, 
coloured and flavoured with essence of anchovies. 

10.— Eggs a la Parisienne. 

Take some dariole moulds large enough to contain 
an egg each, and put them on ice, so as to be perfect- 
ly cold. Melt some half-glaze and pour into each 
mould, turning the moulds on the ice so as to leave a 
coating of glaze on the bottoms and sides. Chop up 
very fine some tongue or ham with a couple of 
truffles, and shake this mince round the inside of the 
moulds; then break a new-laid egg in each of the 
moulds, due care being taken not to break the yolk. 
Season with salt and pepper, and put the moulds in a 
saut<§-pan half full of hot water. Put them in a hot 
oven to poach for five or six minutes, and if you find 
that the eggs are not quite set on the top, use the 
salamander to finish them. Turn out the eggs on a 
dish, and pour over them some good gravy, in which 
has been thrown some chopped and blanched parsley. 

11.— Eggs a la Ravigote. 

Take some dariole moulds, butter them well, and 
shake round the inside some chopped tarragon, cher- 
vil and parsley previously blanched and dried. Break 
an egg into each mould, and plunge them in a stew- 
pan of boiling water, which must entirely cover the 
moulds, care being taken that they are kept upright. 
The eggs will take about three minutes to cook. 
Take them out of the water and dish up, pouring 
over them some ravigote sauce, made as follows: 

Ravigote Sauce. — Take one handful of parsley, one 
of chervil, and one of tarragon; wash and blanch 



8 EGG COOKERY. 

these herbs, and squeeze them in a cloth to extract 
all moisture; then pound them in a mortar with two 
ounces of butter and a pinch of cayenne pepper; pass 
the puree through a hair-sieve, and mix it with some 
Allemande sauce; add a little lemon-juice or a few 
drops of reduced tarragon vinegar; make it hot, with- 
out boiling, and pour it over the eggs. 

12.— Eggs with Tarragon Gravy. 

Prepare and cook the eggs as in the preceding re- 
cipe; but instead of ravigote sauce, pour over them 
some halfglaze to which has been added some blanch- 
ed tarragonleaves cut in diamonds. 

13.— Eggs a la Cocotte. 

The 'cocotte' is a vessel of earthenware or fire- 
proof china, which is generally employed for cooking 
eggs; it is made in different sizes, the smallest hold- 
ing exactly one egg. 

Batter well six small cocottes, and into each one 
break a fresh egg; season with salt and pepper, and 
pour on the top of each egg a teaspoonful of double 
cream. Place the cocottes in a deep saute pan con- 
taing hot water, and put them in the oven until the 
eggs are poached. 

14— Eggs a la Cocotte with Gravy. 

Proceed as in the former recipe ; but instead of the 
cream, put a teaspoonful of half-glaze on the top of 
each egg. 

15.— Eggs a la Cocotte au Gratin. 

Break three whole eggs in a basin, season with salt, 
pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, adding some 



EGG COOKERY. 9 

chopped parsley and mushrooms, together with half 
a pint of double cream. Mix these ingredients well 
with a whisk, and fill some small cocottes, previously 
well buttered. Put them in a saute-pan containing 
hot water. Cook the custard until it is quite set, tak- 
ing care not to let the water boil. When nearly 
done, shake some fine raspings on the top, and colour 
with a salamander. If preferred, eggs a la cocotte 
may be steamed in an ordinary potato-steamer. 

16.— Devilled poached Eggs. 

Poach six fresh eggs for three minutes in water 
acidulated with a little white vinegar and salt. When 
done, drain them on a napkin and serve on a platter. 
Pour on them some devilled sauce, and serve. 

Sauce a la Biable. — Fry three or four shallots in 
oil or clarified butter until they are a nice light- 
brown colour; then add a pinch of cayenne pepper 
and a teaspoonf ul of curry powder ; stir on the fire 
for a few minutes, and moisten with some Bechamel 
sause (see 27) and a spoonful of Lea and Perrins 1 
Worcester sauce; mix well together; simmer for two 
or three minutes, skim off the butter and pass 
through a fine strainer. It is then ready for use. 

17.— Eggs with Aspic, a la Russe. 

To prepare the eggs for this recipe, it is necessary 
to have some moulds in the shape of half an egg^ 
but large enough to contain a whole one. The eggs 
must be new laid, and poached in plenty of water, so 
that they may acquire a nice round shape. Let them 
poach for four minutes, and plunge them in cold 
water. When quite cold, drain them on a napkin. 



10 EGG COOKERY. 

Put the moulds on the ice, and line them thinly 
with aspic jelly. When set, put one egg into each 
mould and fill up with aspic jelly to the level of the 
egg, on the top of which must be laid a slice of ham 
or tongne cut with an oval cutter; then fill up the 
moulds with aspic jelly. When properly set, turn 
out the eggs on a dish and garnish them with aspic. 
The moulds may be decorated before being lined, 
with tongue, truffles, tarragon, or chervil. 

18.— Eggs a la Matelote, 

Chop up one onion and two shallots; put them in 
a small stewpan with half a gill of oil, half a bay- 
leaf, a little parsley and thyme, a few pepper-corns, 
and three or four fresh sliced mushrooms. Fry all 
these ingredients, and when done, throw them on a 
coarse strainer to drain off the oil. Put back the 
seasonings in a stewpan with half a glass of white or 
red wine ; reduce, and moisten with some Espagnole 
sauce. After boiling gently for a few minutes, skim 
it and pass through a fine strainer. Add to the sauce 
a few button mushrooms and a dozen small braised 
onions. 

Poach six or eight eggs, dish them up on small 
pieces of fried bread, and over them put the matelote 
sauce. 

19.— Eggs in Vinegar* 

Put an egg which has a clean shell in a jar of vin- 
egar for twenty-four hours. When taken out, the 
shell will be found to have become quite soft and 
elastic, but yet so tough that it may be squeezed 
through the neck of a bottle without breaking. Boil 



EGG COOKERY, 11 

this egg for six or eight minutes; it will not get hard 
like an ordinary egg, but will have the consistency 
of an egg poached in its shell, and the white will be 
extremely creamy. The shell will become quite soft, 
and can easily be peeled off. 

This recipe is given merely to show how curiously 
the egg is transformed by the action of the vinegar ; 
but it is not advisable to serve it, as it will have ac- 
quired a strong acid taste which might not be ap- 
proved of. 

20— Eggs Souffles a la Polignac. 

Break in a middling-sized stewpan four yolks of 
eggs; add two ounces of butter, some salt, pepper, 
and a few fine herbs, composed of fried shallots, mush- 
rooms, and parsley. Put the stewpan in a deep saute- 
pan containing boiling water, and stir the prepara- 
tion with a spoon, as for a Dutch sauce. When it 
begins to thicken, take the pan off the fire, whisk 
the contents a moment or two, and let it get cold. 
Whip four whites of eggs quite firm, and incorporate 
lightly with the yolk mixture; then fill up with the 
latter twelve small fireproof china soufflecases. Take 
a flat stewpan with a tight cover, in which place the 
cases. Pour round these some boiling water, enough 
to reach nearly to the edge of the cups, and start the 
stewpan on the fire; but as soon as the water begins 
to simmer, take the pan entirely off the fire, and let 
it remain ten minutes without removing the cover. 
After that time the eggs will be done. Shake some 
very fine raspings over them, and serve as soon as 
possible. Care must be taken not to cook the souffles 



12 EGG COOKERY. 

too much, or they will become tough; in fact, they 
had better be under than over done. 

21.— Eggs with Parmesan a la Lorraine. 

Break in a bowl four fresh eggs; season with salt 
and cayenne pepper ; add a pint of cream, a handful 
of grated Parmesan cheese and the same quantity of 
Gruyere. Fill up twelve small china souffle-cases 
with the preparation, and set the custard to poach 
for twenty minutes in a tightly-covered flat stewpan, 
taking care that the water does not boil. When done, 
sift on the surface a little grated Parmesan cheese, 
and colour with the salamander. 

22— Nest of Eggs. 

Take one handful of flour, three or four yolks ©f 
eggs, a pinch of salt, and one ounce of butter. Mix 
these ingredients together so as to form a stiff paste, 
and roll it out very thin. Let the paste get partly 
dry, then cut it into strips about three inches wide, 
and proceed to shred it as fine as possible with a very 
sharp knife. The shredded paste is then spread on a 
sieve to get thoroughly dry, and afterwards fried crisp 
in hot lard. Take it out with a slice, drain it, and 
pile it up round a dish, so as to imitate a bird's-nest, 
in the centre of which should be placed some poached 
eggs. Pour a little half-glaze ovpr the eggs, and serve 

23.— Eggs with Cheese a la Anglaise. 

Slice up four ounces of Cheddar cheese; put it in a 
stewpan with half a tumbler of double cream, a little 
salt, and a good pinch of cayenne pepper. When 



EGG COOKERY. 13 

the cheese is melted, pour it in a pie-dish or a large 
oval dish, and drop in it five or six whole eggs, tak- 
ing care not to break the yolks ; shake over some 
grated Parmesan cheese, and put in the oven for a 
few minutes. This dish must be served very hot. If 
allowed to get cold, the cheese will become tough. 

24.— Eggs en Robe de Chambre. 

Take six potatoes, of equal size if possible, and a 
little larger than an ordinary egg. Bake them in the 
oven, and when done, make a round hole about the 
size of half dollar in the side of each potato, with a 
sharp knife. Remove all the inside with a teaspoon, 
and break one egg into each potato. Season with 
salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, and put them 
on a baking-sheet in the oven until the eggs are nicely 
set. Shake lightly breadraspings on the top, and 
serve on a napkin. Garnish with fried parsly. 

25.— Plain Hard-boiled Eggs. 

Put the eggs in hot water, and let them boil ten 
minutes. If allowed to cook any longer the white 
will acquire a disagreeable smell, and the yolk will 
lose its bright golden colour. 

26.— Coloured Eggs, or Easter Eggs. 

The red eggs, commonly called Easter eggs, which 
are so much used in France and in Russia at Easter- 
time, are obtained by boiling them for ten minutes 
in water coloured either with .logwood, cochineal, or 
carmine. The eggs must have been previously well 
washed so as to be free from stains. When done, let 



14 EGG COOKERY. 

them remain in the coloured water for five or six min- 
utes Wipe them dry with a cloth, and finally rub 
them with a slightly oiled napkin. 

To colour the eggs green, boil them in water col- 
oured with spinach or with the substance called veg- 
etable green. To obtain them yellow, use saffron to 
colour the water, or wrap up the eggs in the outer 
skins of onions. Should you wish to imitate marble, 
tie round the eggs variegated silks. 

27.— Eggs a la Bechamel. 

Boil six fresh eggs for ten minutes; take them up 
with a slice, and immerse them in a basin of cold 
water; shell them, and slice them up cross ways. Have 
ready in a deep saute-pan some good Bechamel sauce, 
highly seasoned; reduce it to a proper consistency, 
and throw the sliced eggs into it. Lightly mix t ? he 
sauce and the eggs with a wooden spoon; then pile 
them up on a dish, and serve with a border of fried 
bread-croutons. 

Bechamel Sauce. — Put into a stewpan two ounces 
of fresh butter and four ounces of flour; knead the 
flour and butter together with a wooden spoon, and 
add a pint and a half of cold milk, a carrot,one onion, 
a little thyme, bay-leaf, parsley, and three or four 
white mushrooms (all these vegetables cut thin). 
Stir the sauce over the fire to boil a little while ; then 
pass it through a fine strainer; put it back in the 
stewpan and boil it for ten minutes with half a pint 
of double-cream. 

28.-Eggs a la Tripe. 
Slice up three large onions, parboil and drain them ; 
then finish cooking them in milk, very slightly salted. 



EGG COOKERY. 15 

When done, drain them on a sieve, and make a thick 
Bechamel sauce with the milk in which the onions 
have been boiled, with the addition of a gill of double 
cream. Season with salt, cayenne pepper, and grat- 
ed nutmeg. Having boiled hard six fresh eggs, slice 
them and mix with the onions in the sauce, lightly 
stirring the whole on the fire with a wooden spoon. 
When hot, place the eggs and onions in the middle 
of a dish, sorrounded by a border of sippets of toast 
of triangular shape. 

29.— Eggs au Gratin. 

Boil six eggs hard, and cut them up in slices a 
quarter of an inch thick. Next, put three ragout 
spoonfuls of good Bechamel sauce (see 27) in a stew- 
pan with three yolks of eggs; stir on the fire until 
the eggs are set, care being taken not to let the mix- 
ture boil. Take a fire-proof china dish and spread 
some of the sauce over the bottom, then place on it a 
layer of the sliced eggs; next sprinkle some grated 
Parmesan cheese, over which you spread more sauce; 
and so on alternately, taking care that the last layer 
is composed of grated cheese. Put the dish in the 
oven, and when thoroughly hot brown the top with 
the salamander. 

30 -Eggs Stuffed a Tlndienne. 

Boil six eggs for ten minutes ; shell and cut them 
in two lengthways; take out the yolks, and pound 
them in a small mortar with two ounces of fresh 
butter, two raw yolks, a teaspoonful of curry -powder, 
a little salt, and a tablespoonful of Bechamel sauce, 
(see 27). Take this preparation out of the mortar 



16 EGG COOKERY. 

and mix with it, by means of a fork, two spoonfuls of 
well-cooked rice. Fill up the cavities in the boiled 
whites of the eggs with the curry compound, raising 
it slightly in the centre. Smooth the surface with a 
knife dipped in butter, and put the eggs on a buttered 
baking-sheet to get warm. Dish up the eggs on a 
layer of mashed patatoes or in a border of forcemeat, 
and pour over a good curry sauce, made as follows : 

Curry Sauce. — Chop up one onion and fry it in 
clarified butter with a sprig of thyme and three or 
four sliced mushrooms. When the onions are of a 
nice brown colour add to them a teaspoonful of curry- 
powder; fry the whole for a minute or two, and add 
some thin Bechamel sauce. Boil the curry sauce, and 
then let it simmer for ten minutes by the side of the 
fire ; skim off the butter and pass through a fine 
strainer, when it will be ready for use. 

31.— Eggs farcied a Fltalienne. 

Having boiled hard six fresh eggs, divide them in 
two lengthways as in the preceding recipe; take out 
the yolks, and put them in a mortar with a spoonful 
of Bechamel sauce, a handful of breadcrumbs, two 
raw yolks, some salt, a little cayenne pepper, and a 
teaspoonful of 'fine herbs' (a mixture of chopped and 
fried shallots, parsley, and mushrooms). These in- 
gredients being well amalgamated, fill up with the 
preparation the empty half eggs, which are then to 
be put in the oven for ten or twelve minutes, on a 
buttered baking-sheet. When hot, dish them up on 
a thin layer of mashed potatoes or in a small border 
of forcemeat, and pour over some Italian sauce, made 
as follows: 



EGG COOKERY. 17 

Italian Sauce. — Put in a stewpan a teaspoonful 
of fine herbs with a wine-glassful of cherry or ma- 
deira, and let it remain until the herbs have absorbed 
the wine. Then add some brown sauce and a spoon- 
ful of broth ; let the sauce simmer a little while, re- 
move the scum, and serve. 

32.— Eggs with Sorrel. 

Wash and parboil some sorrel, drain it well, and 
pass it with a wooden spoon through a wire-si ve. Put 
it in a stewpan with a piece of butter, season with 
salt, pepper, a little sugar, and grated nutmeg. Fry 
the sorrel for a few minutes, and add a spoonful of 
Bechamel sauce, a small piece of glace, and two yolks 
of eggs. Boil it on the lire for a few minutes, and 
dish it up. Boil six fresh eggs for ten minutes, shell 
and cut them in quarters lengthways, then dish them 
on the sorrel, the yolks being uppermost; place round 
the base of the sorrel a border of fried bread-crotltons. 

33.— Eggs a la Suisse. 

Divide six hard-boiled eggs in halves lengthways, 
take out the yolks, and put them in a bowl ; season 
with salt, cayenne pepper, and grated nutmeg. Work 
the yolks well with a wooden spoon, adding by de- 
grees two raw yolks of eggs, three spoonfuls of 
double-cream, and enough grated Parmesan cheese to 
form a soft paste, with which fill up the cavity in 
the whites, giving them a round shape and smooth 
surface by using a knife dipped in butter. Place the 
eggs on a buttered baking-sheet or on a fireproof 
china dish, sprinkle some grated Parmesan cheese 



18 EGG COOKERY. 

over, and put them in the oven. When thoroughly 
warm, brown them with a hot salamander. In dish- 
ing, pour round some Bechamel sauce, (see 27). 

34.— Another Eggs a la Suisse. 

Spread the bottom of a dish with two ounces of 
fresh butter ; cover this with grated cheese, break 
eight whole eggs upon the cheese without breaking 
the yolks. Season with red pepper and salt if neces- 
sary ; pour a little cream on the surface, strew about 
two ounces of grated cheese on the top, and set the 
eggs in a moderate oven for about a quarter of an 
hour. Pass a hot salamander over the top to brown it. 

35.— Eggs a la Polonaise. 

Cut six hard boiled eggs in halves, put the yolks 
in a mortar with some seasoning, two ounces of 
butter, two chopped and fried shallots, and a large 
tomato (previously peeled and free from seeds), two 
raw yolko of eggs, and a handful of breadcrumbs. 
Proceed in the same way as for eggs a la Suisse. 
While the eggs are in the oven, fry a handful of 
breadcrumbs in two ounces of fresh butter. When 
they have acquired a pale brown colour, at once re- 
move the stewpan from the fire, and pour the hot 
breadcrumbs over the eggs, which are now ready for 
serving. 

36-Stuffed Eggs with Spinach. 

Boil six eggs for ten minutes, immerse them in 
cold water, shell and divide them in two crossways, 
so as to form two domes, which you perforate with 
a long cutter half an inch in diameter. Next, cut 



EGG COOKERY. 19 

out a dozen of round croutons the size of the base of 
the egg, and fry them in clarified butter. Pluck, 
wash, and cook some spinach; when done, drain and 
pass it through a wiresieve; then put it in a stewpan 
on a brisk fire with some butter, salt, pepper, a pinch 
of sugar, and a little grated nutmeg. Stir it for a 
few minutes so as to evaporate the moisture; add 
another piece of butter, a spoonful of cream, and a 
little glaze. 

When about to serve the eggs, warm them in hot 
water or white broth ; drain, and fill them up with 
the spinach, which ought to be rather soft. Place 
each portion of egg on one of the croutons of fried 
bread, and close the top opening with a piece of 
tongue cut to the size of the hole. Serve without 
sauce or gravy, so as to keep the bread crisp. 

37.— Egg Sandwiches. 

Cut some hard-boiled eggs in slices a quarter of an 
inch thick, and lay them on slices of bread and but- 
ter; sprinkle salt over the eggs, together with some 
mustard and cress; cover with another slice of 
buttered bread, and cut the sandwiches to the re- 
quired size. Thin slices of toasted bread may be used 
instead of plain bread. 

38.— Egg Croquettes. 

Break in a basin four whole eggs and four yolks, 
season with salt, pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and 
half a gill of cream. Mix with a fork, pass through 
a strainer, and fill up with this preparation six or 
eight buttered dariole moulds. Steam this custard 



20 EGG COOKERY. 

until it sets quite firm, care being taken not to let 
the water of the steamer boil; it will take about 
twenty-five minutes to cook; then turn it out and let 
it get cold. Cut the custard in dice about the size of 
a large pea, and mix lightly with some strong Becha- 
mel sauce which has been thickened with two raw 
yolks of eggs. Put this preparation on the ice, and 
when set, divide it into equal parts, the size of a pig- 
eon's egg; give the croquettes the desired shape, roll 
them first in breadcrumbs, and dip afterwards in some 
beaten eggs preparatory to breadcrumbing them 
a second time, patting with a knife to give them a 
smooth surface. Fry them in hot lard, and when 
they have acquired a nice golden colour, drain and 
dish them up on a napkin; garnish the croquettes 
with fried parsley. 

39.— Egg Sauces. 

Knead two ounces of fresh butter with one ounce 
of flour in a small stewpan, add a gill and a half of 
milk, and stir on the fire until the sauce thickens; 
season with pepper and salt, and mix in it three hard- 
boiled eggs cut in large dice. If this sauce is intend- 
ed to be served with salt-fish, it will obviously require 
but very little salt. 

Allemand Sauce. — Put in a sauce pan a cupful 
of butter, a sliced onion and carrot, when melted add 
a cupful of flour, stir in three quarts boiling white 
stock and let it boil one hour, season with salt and 
white pepper, strain, beat the yolks of two eggs with 
the juice of a lemon and stir into this sauce and keep 
hot for use. From this sauce the following sauces 
can be made. 



EGG COOKERY. 21 

Parsley Sauce. — Chop one bunch of parsley very 
fine, squeeze dry through a napkin, mix in a pint of 
allemande sauce and serve. This sauce is good with 
boiled fish. 

Caper Sauce.— Mix in a pint of allemande sauce 
one cupful of capers and serve. 

Egg Sauce Piquante % — Chop three hard boiled 
eggs, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them and mix 
one quart of allemande sauce. 

Sauce Hollandaise. — Beat the yolks of three eggs 
with the juice of one lemon, one-half cupful of good 
soft butter, and stir into one quart of allemande 
sauce, stirring it for about ten minutes, so as to have 
a light creamy appearance. 

40.-Egg Patties. 

Break six whites of eggs in a small basin, season 
with salt and pepper, adding two spoonfuls of cream; 
beat this preparation with a fork to mix the cream 
and eggs together, but avoid making it frothy, and 
pass it through a pointed strainer into a buttered 
Charlotte mould. Dissolve the six yolks with two 
spoonfuls of broth, season well, and strain into an- 
other mould. Let the two preparations steam until 
they are set firm, and turn them out on a plate. 
When cold, divide the custard, cut into thick slices, 
and stamp these out with a round cutter a quarter of 
an inch in diameter. Stamp likewise some tongue, 
truflles, and mushrooms; mix altogether in a stewpan 
containing some rich Bechamel sauce, and with this 
preparation fill up a dozen small patty cases cr a 
4ozen of croustad.es a la Montglas. 



22 EGG COOKEBY. 

41.— Egg Blanquette. 

This preparation is made in exactly the same man- 
ner as egg patties. The eggs, truffles, and tongue 
must however be stamped out with a cutter the size 
of a 25-cent piece, and the Bechamel sauce thickened 
with two raw yolks of eggs (care being taken that it 
does not boil). The ingredients are then thrown into 
the sauce, and mixed lightly with a wooden spoon so 
as not to break the custard. Dish up the blanquette 
in the centre of a border of croutons previously placed 
round the bottom of the dish. 

42.— Egg Vol-au-Vent. 

Make half a pound of puff-paste, roll it out six 
turns, and out of it cut a vol-au-vent case of moder- 
ate size, which bake in a hot oven. When properly 
baked, take off the top, and with a fork scoop out the 
inside carefully so as not to damage the case. When 
about to send to table, make the vol-au-vent hot, and 
garnish it with a preparation similar to the one 
described in the above recipe. 

43.— Eggs a la Royale for Soup. 

Break in a basin five whole eggs and four yolks; 
heat them up; add half a pint of good stock; season 
with salt, but no pepper, as the pepper sinks to the 
bottom of the mould and gives the custard an un- 
pleasant appearance. Pass the preparation through 
a fine strainer into a battered Charlotte mould, and 
steam gently until set. When cold turn out the 
custard, cut it in slices, and stamp it out with fancy 
cutters according to taste. After being stamped out, 



EGG COOKERY. 16 

place the custard in cold water or consomme*, ready 
to throw -into the tureen of soup before serving. This 
custard, or ^JRoyale^ is generally served with clear 
soup, sometimes with consomme ^aux pointes cV asper- 
ges\ or more often with Printanier or JBrimoise soup. 

44.— -Egg Canapes with Anchovy Butter. 

Cut crossways some hard-boiled eggs in slices a 
quarter of an inch thick; take out the yolks and keep 
them apart; trim the whites with a round cutter, 
taking out some of the inner part so as to form reg- 
ular rings. Cut some round slices of bread the same 
size as the white of egg rings; fry them in oil or clari- 
fied butter, and when cold spread on one side of 
them some anchovy butter well seasoned with cay- 
enne pepper. Lay on these ^routes' the rings of 
white of egg^ and fill the centre with the yolks chop- 
ped fine. Lay across the canapes two thin fillets of 
anchovies, and serve with a garnish of parsly. 

s 45.— Egg Medallions a la Russe. 

Slice the eggs as in the foregoing recipe, and lay 
them on round pieces of thin toast previously buttered, 
and fill up the centre of the rings with Russian caviare. 

46.— Eggs a la Tartare. 

Take six hard-boiled eggs, and cut them in two 
lengthways; take out the yolks, and fill the cavity in 
the white with a well-seasoned, stiff tartare sauce. 
Smooth the surface with a knife, and put the eggs 
on a plate under a wire-sieve; pass the yolks through 
the sieve with a wooden spoon, so that they fall upon 



24 EGG COOKERY. 

the eggs. Dish them up on a bed of cut-up lettuce; 
garnish and ornament with slices of cucumber, beet- 
root, radishes, capers, etc. 

Sauce Tartare. — Put in a bowl two yolks of eggs, 
a pinch of salt, a little English mustard, some pepper 
and a teasponful of tarragon vinegar. Work the 
whole quickly with a wooden spoon or a small whisk, 
and add gradually a gill of olive oil, beginning the 
process by pouring in a few drops at a time, and in- 
creasing the quantity as you go on, until all the oil 
is absorbed. Finish with a little chili vinegar, a 
small quantity of French mustard, chopped gherkins, 
and capers. A little whipped cream is a great im- 
provement to a mayonnaise, or tartare cauce. 

47.— Eggs with Nouilles. 

Having sliced up six hard-boiled eggs, put them on 
a flat stewpan with some thick tomato sauce, highly 
seasoned and well reduced. On the other hand, take 
a handful of flour, mix with it on the slab five or six 
yolks of eggs and a little salt; work it together so as 
to form a stiff paste, which is called 'Nouilles' paste. 
Roll out this paste very thin, and let it stand ten or 
twelve minutes to get dry; then divide it in strips 
three inches wide. Put each on the top of the other,and 
with a sharp kitchen-knife proceed to cut the nouilles 
as fine as possible. They must then be spread on a 
sieve to get dry ; after which, parboil them for ten 
minutes, and drain on a colander. Return the 
nouilles to the stewpan with a piece of butter, some 
seasoning, a little grated nutmeg, and some grated 
Parmesan and Gruyere cheese. Stir them with a 



EGG COOKERY. 25 

Wooden spoon, and put part of them in a i gratirC 
dish; form a well in the centre, and fill up with the 
eggs. Cover them up with the remainder of the 
nouilles, sprinkle some Parmesan cheese over, and 
place the dish in a hot oven to get brown ; garnish 
round the base with fried sippets of bread. 

j? 48.— Hard eggs for Salads. 

Lobster salad, chaudfroid of chicken, or mayon- 
naise of fish, are often served with a border of eggs. 
The eggs must be chosen very fresh, otherwise there 
will be an empty space at one of the ends. Boil them 
ten minutes, and throw them in cold water; shell and 
divide them in quarters or in eight parts, and arrange 
them tastefully round the dish, turning the yolk or 
the white outside, according to fancy. In the latter 
case, the white part of the egg may be ornamented 
with sorrel and tarragon-leaves, or with slices of 
gherkins, truffles, tongue, or radishes cut very thin. 

49.— Eggs a TAurore. 

Divide six hard-boiled eggs in two parts cross ways, 
take out the yolks, and slice up the whites, which 
mix with some thick Bechamel sauce (see No. 27). 
Season well with sauce, cayenne pepper, and a little 
grated nutmeg. Stick some bread croutons round a 
dish by means of a little flour moistened with white 
of egg; then place on the bottom of the dish some of 
the sliced white of egg^ sprinkle on it some grated 
Parmesan cheese, and on that a layer of yolk of egg 
passed through a wire-sieve ; then another layer of 
white, one of Parmesan, and finish with a coat of 



26 EGG GOOKEEY. 

yolk rubbed through a wire-sieve. Put the dish in 
the oven to get warm, and serve. 

50.— Plovers' Eggs. 

Plovers' eggs are considered a great delicacy, espe- 
cially in England, where an immense quantity are 
consumed annually. At the beginning of the season 
they sometimes fetch as much as two or three shil- 
lings apiece. Plovers' eggs are found on heaths and 
commons, but it is rather a difficult task to discover 
them, their colour being much the same as that of 
the ground. The plovers'-egg hunter is often guided 
in his search by the male bird, who will hover above 
the intruder, wheeling about and screaming. As for 
the hen-bird, upon being disturbed she will try to 
divert attention from her eggs by running lamely, 
as if one of her wings were broken. 

Plovers' eggs are generally eaten hard, and they re- 
quire seven or eight minutes to cook. They are often 
used as border for mayonnaise salads, or dished up on 
a rice-stand and garnished with aspic jelly. They 
are also served in their shells and dished in a nest of 
moss. In the latter case, slices of brown bread and 
butter must be handed with them. 

51.— Poached Plovers' Eggs. 

Plovers' eggs poached in water do not retain a 
good shape, therefore the best method of proceeding 
is as follows: — Take some large-sized fireproof souffle- 
cases, line them with a little chicken forcemeat, break 
an egg into each cup, sprincle a little salt on them, 
put the cases in a saute-pan containing a little hot 
water, and place them in the oven to set. 



EGO COOKERY. 27 

52.— Plovers' Eggs a la Reine. 

Plovers' eggs are also served hot. After shelling 
them, dish them upon or around a puree of chicken, 
with fried bread croutons round the base, and an ac- 
companiment of sauce supreme. The puree may also 
be dished inside a rice border, or on a croustade of 
bread. 

53.— Plovers' Eggs Fried in Batter. 

Shell the eggs and dip them in frying batter. 
Take them up with a fork, and fry them of a nice 
light colour in clear hot lard. Serve on a napkin, 
and garnish with fried parsley. 

r 54.— Chaudfroid of Eggs. 

Boil ten eggs for eight minutes ; cool and shell 
them. Take an oval cutter, and with it make an 
opening in the side of each egg^ and scoop out all the 
yolk. Put the eggs on the ice or in a cold place. 
Prepare a ^salpicon' composed of truffles, tongue, 
chicken and mushrooms, cut in small dice or in 
1 'Julienne 1 fashion. Mix these ingredients with a 
good Bechamel or Allemande sauce, highly seasoned. 
and with it fill up the eggs. Stop the opening with 
a piece of truffle or tongue, cut with the same oval 
cutter used to open the eggs; then sauce the eggs 
over with a thick chaudfroid sauce. When this sauce 
is set, dish up on a bed of aspic jelly. 

55.— Eggs a la Muscovite, 

Proceed as in the foregoing recipe; but instead of 
the salpicon, fill up the eggs with a Russian salad, 
composed thus: 



28 BGG COOKERY. 

Russian Salad. — With a vegetable scoop cut some 
carrots, turnips, and boiled new potatoes the size of 
a pea; cut also in dice, of about the same size, French 
beans, anchovies, and celery, adding a handful of peas 
and a tablespoonful of capers. Boil the carrots and 
turnips separately; and when they are cooked, let 
them get cold and mix all the ingredients with some 
tartare sauce, highly seasoned with cayenne pepper, 
chopped tarragon, and chervil. Fill up the eggs with 
this salad, and dish up on a bed of sliced lettuce. 

56.— Rissoles of Eggs, 

Cut half-a-dozen hard-boiled eggs in small squares ; 
take some well-reduced Bechamel sauce (see 27) and 
thicken it with two raw yolks of eggs ; stir the sauce 
on the fire, and when it is nearly boiling, throw in a 
small quantity of fried shallots or chives, some cay- 
enne pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Mix well with 
a wooden spoon, taking care not to smash the eggs, 
and put the preparation in a plate on the ice to get 
thoroughly cold. It must then be divided into parts 
the size of a walnut. 

On the other hand, roll out very thinly some trim- 
mings of puff-paste and lay on it the balls or cro- 
quettes, an inch apart from one another. Wet the 
paste round the eggs with a paste-brush dipped in 
water, and fold the paste over the balls; press them 
all round with the edge of the thumb, and cut them 
out with a round fluted cutter. Thus having cut a 
sufficient number for your purpose, dip them in 
beaten egg^ and breadcrumb them either with fresh 
breadcrumbs or with crushed vermicelli. Fry them 



EGG COOKERY. 29 

in 1 ot lard, and send them to table on a folded nap- 
kin, with a garnish of fried parsley. 

57.— -Eggs a la Cardinal. 

Boil six large fresh eggs for ten minutes; shell and 
cut them in slices half an inch thick. Put the yolks 
aside, and with a plain round cutter cut the middle 
of the whites so as to form a regular ring. Place 
these rings in a buttered saute-pan, and fill up the 
inside with a salmon forcemeat in which you have 
incorporated some raw lobster spawn, previously 
passed through a hairsieve. You will obtain a force- 
meat of a greenish appearance; but it will assume a 
red colour when poached. Use a paper bag to fill up 
the rings; pour gently some boiling water in the 
saute" pan, and when the farce is sufficiently set, drain 
the eggs and dish them up in a circular row. Pound 
the six hard yolks with one ounce of butter, a little 
Bechamel, some cayenne pepper, and a spoonful of 
anchovy sauce. Warm that pur£e without boiling, 
and dish it up in the centre of the dish. Pour over 
the whole some Cardinal sauce. 

58.-Pickled Eggs. 

Put in a jar some hard boiled eggs without their 
shells, and pour on them some boiling vinegar in 
which you have infused some peppercorns, a few cap- 
sicums, some salt, a few leaves of tarragon, and a 
dozen or two button onions. Cover the jar, and the 
eggs will be ready in three days. Thus prepared, 
the eggs are used as an accompaniment to cold meat. 



30 EGG COOKER'S". 

59.— Eggs k la Regence. 

Boil some eggs for eight minutes, shell them, and 
with a long cutter make an opening at one of the 
ends of each egg. Scoop out all the yolk with a 
small spoon, and fill up the hollowed eggs, by means 
of a biscuit-bag, with chicken forcemeat seasoned 
with fine herbs. Wet the edge of the aperture in the 
egg with a brush dipped in white of egg, and replace 
the piece of the egg that had been previously cut off; 
then plunge the eggs in boiling water for twelve or 
fifteen minutes, to allow the forcemeat to poach, tak- 
ing care not to let the water boil. Drain them on a 
napkin ; cut off a piece of the egg at the base, so as 
to allow them to stand up. Dish up on a thin layer 
of farce, pouring over them some white Italienne 
sauce (see No. 32). 

60.— Eggs Brouille. 

Six eggs, half a cupful of milk, or, better still, of 
cream; two mushrooms, one teaspoonful of salt, a little 
pepper, three tablespoonf uls of butter, a slight grat- 
ing of nutmeg. Cut the mushrooms into dice, and 
fry them for one minute in one tablespoonful of the 
butter. Beat the eggs, salt, pepper, and cream to- 
gether, and put them in a saucepan. Add the butter 
and mushrooms to these ingredients. Stir over a 
moderate heat until the mixture begins to thicken. 
Take from the fire and beat rapidly until the eggs 
become quite thick and creamy. Have slices of toast 
on a hot dish. Heap the mixture on these, and garn- 
ish with points or crecents of toast. Serve im- 
mediately. 



EGG COOKERY. 31 ) 

61.-Egg Rolls. 

Procure from the baker some very small rolls; split 
them in half and scoop out all the crumb. Chop fine 
three or four hard-boiled eggs and put them in a 
bowl ; cut in small dice some haddock and mix it with 
the eggs; add also some well-seasoned mayonnaise 
sauce, and with this preparation fill up the rolls. 
Strew over the surface some of the hard-boiled yolks 
passed through a wire-sieve, and dish up on a napkin. 
These rolls are generally served with cheese after 
dinner. 

62.— Egg Pie k la Marseillaise. 

Slice four large onions ; fry them in a pan previ- 
ously rubbed over with a clove of garlic. Fry like- 
wise four large fresh truffles cut in thin slices; then 
drain the onions and truffles and mix them with some 
Bechamel sauce, (see No. 27) well reduced and sharp- 
ly seasoned. To the latter add six sliced hard-boiled 
eggs. Line a low pie-mould with short paste, and 
fill it up with the eggs, truffles, and onions. Cover 
the pie with mashed potatoes and bake it in a moder- 
ate oven. When the paste is done and the potatoes 
brown, take the pie out of the mould and serve. The 
pie may be eaten either hot or cold. 

z> 63.-Yolks of Eggs k la Fermiere. 

Separate the yolks of eggs from the whites, taking 
care not to break them. They must then be poached 
for two minutes in boiling water mixed with a little 
salt. The better plan is to place the yolks in separ- 
ate small cups, and drop them one by one in the boil- 



32 EGG COOKERY. 

ing water. They mast not boil more than two mi- 
nutes, or they will become hard. Take them up with 
a slice and plunge them in cold water to prevent 
them from cooking too much, and when ready to 
serve warm them up in hot water. 

These eggs form a very nice garnish for sorrel or 
spinach. Pile up the spinach or sorrel on the centre 
of the dish, and arrange the yolks of eggs round the 
base of the puree, each one resting on a round 
crotlton of fried bread 

64.— Eggs and Bacon. 

Cut some thin slices of streaky bacon and fry them 
crisp ; then drain and dish up. Break half a dozen 
new-laid eggs in a soup-plate, season, and slip them 
gently into the frying-pan containing the fat yielded 
by the bacon, taking care not to break the yolks. 
Let the eggs fry slowly, basting them constantly 
with the bacon fat. When done, separate the eggs 
from each other with a plain round cutter; take them 
up with a small slice, and dish up on the fried bacon. 

65.— Ham and Eggs 

is prepared as above, only some times they are served 
on separate platters or dishes, but the eggs are then 
laid on pieces of toast. 

66.— Eggs a la Piemontaise. 

Butter thickly a silver dish or a fireproof china 
pan, and spread on the bottom of it a layer of grated 
Swiss cheese; then break on the cheese half a dozen 
new-laid eggs, t#^ing care not to disturb the yolks; 



BOG COOKERY. 33 

season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Pour 
over the eggs half a gill of double-cream, and shake 
some grated Parmesan cheese on the top. Put the 
eggs in the oven for five or six minutes, and colour 
with the red-hot salamander. 

67.— Eggs sur le Plat. 

Warm some butter in a fireproof china dish, (a 
saucer will do). When it begins to fritter break into 
it some new-laid eggs without disturbing the yolks. 
Season with pepper and salt, and spread over some 
cream. Put them in the oven for five minutes to set, 
and when done serve in the baking-dish. 

68.— Eggs au Miroir. 

The term ^au miroir' applied to this dish is due to 
the mirror-like appearance of the egg, when cooked. 
The eggs are prepared exactly in the same manner 
as in the preceding recipe, the only difference being 
the omission of the cream. Let them be put in the 
oven a few minutes, and with the red-hot salamander 
set them on the top, until the yolk has acquired a 
transparent appearance and the white a bluish tint. 
To obtain this result the salamander must not be 
held too close to the eggs. 

69.— Eggs with Nut-Brown Butter. 

Eggs cooked in this fashion are now commonly 
called i CEufs au beurre noir? They constitute an 
excellent relish much appreciated in France. The 
brown butter acidulated by the vinegar is an agree- 
able accompaniment to the egg. Put two ounces of 



34 EGG C00ORY. 

fresh butter into a frying-pan and set it on the fire. 
When the butter begins to turn brown break into it 
some fresh-laid eggs, care being taken not to break 
the yolks. Season and fry. When the eggs are done, 
take them up carefully with a slice and dish them up. 
The frying-pan must then be put on the fire again 
with another ounce of butter to get brown. When 
ready, pour it over the eggs; then pour into the fry- 
ing-pan two spoonfuls of strong vinegar, let it reduce, 
and pour it boiling hot over the eggs, and serve. 

70— Egg Fritters* 

Poach six eggs in water salted and acidulated with 
a wine-glassful of vinegar. After three minutes boil- 
ing take up the eggs and plunge them in cold water. 
When cold drain them in a napkin, and sprinkle on 
them a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Roll 
out very thin some trimming of puff-paste, and with 
a round fluted cutter stamp out twelve pieces half an 
inch wider than the poached egg. Place each egg 
between two of these pieces of paste, which are made 
to adhere by moistening the edges with a wet brush 
and pressing them together lightly with the thumb. 
Next, dip the fritters in beaten eggs, and roll them 
in fresh breadcrumbs or in crushed vermicelli. When 
required for the table fry them in hot lard, and serve 
on a napkin with a garnish of fried parsley. 

71.— Egg Kromeskys. 

Poach the eggs as in the preceding recipe, and 
when drained and seasoned, dip them in batter and 
fry in very hot lard for not more than a minute. 



EGG COOKERY. 35 

You will thus obtain a very satisfactoiy result; the 
outside o£ the eggs will be crisp, while the interior 
still retains the softness of the poached egg. 

Frying Batter. — The best frying-batter for egg 
Kromeskys is made by diluting four ounces of flour 
with a little cream and two yolks of eggs. 

72.— Fried Eggs k la Viennoise. 

Proceed to poach the eggs as in the foregoing case, 
and when done and drained quite dry on a cloth, roll 
them in flour and fry them in plenty of lard made 
very hot for the purpose. As soon as they are of a 
nice yellow colour take them up, and dish them on 
buttered toast. 

73— Eggs k la Montglas. 

Boil eight eggs in their shells for eight minutes, 
let them get cold and shell them carefully. Next 
make an opening at one of the ends with a long cut- 
ter, and scoop out all the yolk; then fill up the eggs 
with a mixture composed of truffles, tongue, chicken, 
and mushrooms ; the whole of these ingredients cut 
in small dice or in shreds, and mixed with some good 
Bechamel or Allemande sauce. Stop up the aperture 
with the piece that has been cut off to make the 
opening; dip them in some beaten egg and bread- 
crumbs, and fry them in hot lard. Dish the eggs on 
a napkin with a garnish of fried parsley. 

74— Eggs, Bull's-Eye Fashion. 

This stile of cooking eggs is rather peculiar, and 
little known generally. Cut a slice off a tin loaf half 
an inch thick, and with a round cutter three inches 



36 EGG C00KERT. 

in diameter stamp out a disc. Scoop out the middle 
part with another cutter a little smaller so as to form 
a ring, which is to be fried in clarified butter. This 
ring is then laid on a thickly buttered saute-pan, and 
an egg is put in the centre; the saute-pan is then 
placed in the oven until the egg is set. Finish cook- 
ing it with the salamander if necessary, 

75.— Fried Eggs with Tomato Sauce. 

Put half a gill of oil in a frying-pan, and when the 
oil is hot break one egg in a cup and slip it gently 
into the pan, which must be kept slightly inclined so 
as to give the egg a round shape; with an iron spoon 
fold up the sides of the egg so as to wrap up the yolk 
with the white. When done, drain the egg on a 
napkin, and fry another in the same manner. When 
enough eggs have been fried to make a dish, dress 
them on toast, and pour over some tomato sauce. 

76.— Egg Pudding a l'Anglaise. 

Slice up half a dozen hard-boiled eggs and lay them 
in a pie-dish. Pour over the eggs a rich custard, 
made of three whole fresh eggs and a pint of milk, 
well seasoned with salt, cayenne pepper, and grated 
nutmeg. Strew some grated Parmesan cheese on the 
top, and bake in a moderate oven until the custard is 
set. Colour with the hot salamander, 

77.— Bouchees of Eggs. 

Bake some puff-paste patty cases large enough to 
contain one egg each. When sufficiently baked, 
take out the inside, and a few minutes before sending 



EGG COOKERY. $1 

to table break one egg well-seasoned, in each of the 
eases ; put them in the oven, and when the eggs are 
set, dish up on a napkin and serve. 

78— Paupiettes of Eggs. 

Boil hard six eggs. Take out the yolks, which 
bruise in a small mortar with one ounce of butter, a 
spoonful of sauce, a little chopped and fried shallots, 
the same quantity of mushrooms and parsley, also 
chopped and fried. Take the preparation out of the 
mortar and put it in a bowl. Next chop fine the 
whites of the hard-boiled eggs and mix them lightly 
with the yolks; season with salt, pepper, and grated 
nutmeg. With this mixture form some small oblong 
'paupiettes? the shape of a sausage, but much thin- 
ner, and only three inches long. Roll each of them 
in some very thin pancakes, as for kromeskys; dip 
them in frying-batter and fry a light colour. Send 
up on a napkin, with a garnish of fried parsley. 

79— Plain Buttered Eggs. 

Break six whole eggs in a stewpan; season with 
salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Add four 
ounces of butter divided into small lumps, a little 
cream, and a spoonful of Bechamel sauce (see 27). 
Beat the whole with a whisk or fork, and set the pan 
on a brisk fire, stirring all the time with a wooden 
spoon. When the eggs begin to set, draw the stew- 
pan from the fire, and dish them up with a border 
of fried bread-sippets. 

80.— Buttered Eggs with Asparagus Peas. 

Boil in salt and water two handfuls of sprue, cut 
the size of a pea, taking care not to let them be too 



38 EGG C00KEK*. 

much done. When cooked, drain them on a sieve. 
As in the preceding recipe, break in a stewpan six 
whole eggs; season them, and add four ounces of 
butter, a little white sauce, and a little cream. When 
the eggs begin to set, throw in the asparagus peas, 
mixing lightly with a wooden spoon. Dish up, and 
garnish round with a border of croutons, made either 
of fried bread or puff-paste. 

81.— Buttered Eggs with Fine Herbs. 

Chop fine and fry in oil or clarified butter three 
shallots; add to them four or five chopped mush- 
rooms and the same quantity of parsley; continue 
frying for two or three minutes, and incorporate 
these 'fine herbs' with six whole eggs, well beaten 
and seasoned to taste; add four ounces of butter. Stir 
on the fire until the eggs begin to set; then take the 
stewpan off the fire and introduce into it a spoonful 
of cream and one of Bechamel sauce (see 27); pile up 
the eggs on a dish, and surround them with a border 
of fried croutons. 

82.— Buttered Eggs en Surprise. 

With a very sharp vegetable-knife or a penknife, 
and with the aid of a very fine file, cut off one of the 
ends of six fresh eggs. Empty the contents in a 
stewpan; mix with the broken eggs two ounces of 
butter, a little cream, three spoonfuls of Bechamel 
sauce (see 27), some salt, cayenne pepper, and fine 
herbs. Mix these ingredients together with an egg- 
whisk, and place the stewpan on the fire, stirring the 
mixture all the while with a wooden spoon. When 



EGG COOKERY. 39 

the eggs begin to set, fill up the empty shells, and 
send them up in egg-cups, as for boiled eggs. The 
pieces of shell that have been filed off may be re- 
placed on each egg to complete the illusion. Serve 
with dry toast and egg-spoons. This peculiar way of 
serving buttered eggs is very effective; but it is es- 
sential that the operation of filling the eggs be per- 
formed very nicely; the least notch in the shell will 
entirely spoil the effect. 

The filing process is rather long and tedious ; but 
as the egg-shells, when emptied and washed, will 
keep indefinitely, the operation may be done at lei- 
sure. The best plan is to make a circular mark with 
a pencil round the top of the egg^ and to follow that 
mark with the file. A groove having thus been 
traced with the sharp edge of the file, the top of the 
egg is easily removed with the point of a sharp pen- 
knife. If these eggs are served at Easter-time, the 
shells may be coloured with an infusion of cochineal 
or of logwood. 

83.— Buttered Eggs a la Reine. 
Boil eight eggs for ten minutes, and, when cold, 
take off the shells and cut off the two ends, so as to 
give them the shape of a small barrel. Then, with a 
tube-cutter, make an incision at one of the ends, and 
take out all the yolk, care being taken not to pierce 
the bottom. When ready to serve, warm the eggs 
in water or stock, and dish them up, having previ- 
ously laid a thin coating of forcement or of mashed 
potatoes at the bottom of the dish. Without this 
precaution the eggs would slip about in all direc- 
tions. 



40 EGG COOKERY. 

Break four fresh eggs, and prepare them as in the 
directions given for buttered eggs with fine herbs 
(No. 81). Stir on the fire until the mixture begins 
to set; then take it off the fire, and add a spoonful of 
cream to prevent the preparation from getting too 
much set, and with the latter fill up the eggs. Close 
up the aperture with the pieces that have been cut 
off from the ends, and serve with a good Bechamel 
sauce (see No. 27). 

Eggs prepared in this manner may be sauced over 
with any kind of sauce, such as Italienne, tomato, Pe- 
rigueux, curry, poivrade, etc. In such case the name 
should, however, be changed on the bill of fare, as 
the term 'a la Heine* is only applied to white en- 
trees. 

84.— Eggs a la Bonne Bouche. 

Boil a gill of water with two ounces of butter and 
a good pinch of salt. When the butter is melted, 
introduce into the liquid three ounces of flour. Work 
the preparation with a wooden spoon, and stir it on 
the fire until the paste does not stick to the sides of 
the stewpan. Let it cool five minutes, and add to it 
three whole eggs, one at a time. Put this paste into 
a biscuit-bag, and squeeze out on a baking-sheet two 
dozen of small loaves the thickness of a finger, and 
two inches long. Bake the cakes in a slack oven, and, 
when done, open them on the top, and fill them up 
with mixed eggs made soft, and highly seasoned with 
cayenne and fine herbs. Place on the top, and serve 
very hot. Eggs thus prepared are served with the 
cheese. 



EGG COOKERY. 41 

85.— Egg Sausages, or Lent Sausages. 

These sausages may be served during Lent as a 
substitute for meat sausages. Their preparation re- 
quire some amount of trouble and care; but, if the 
recipe here given is strictly followed, the result will 
be most satisfactory. Procure some sausage skins, 
such as are used for ordinary sausages; wash them 
well, and ascertain, by filling them with water, that 
there are no holes in them. This point is very im- 
portant, for a single pinhole might be the cause of 
failure in the operation. Tie one of the ends of the 
skins with fine twine, and proceed to make the saus- 
ages in the manner described. 

Break eight eggs in a basin, season them with salt, 
pepper, grated nutmeg, and two spoonfuls of fine 
herbs (see No. 81). Add half a pint of double-cream, 
whisk the preparation, and well mix all the ingredi- 
ents. Fill up the skins by means of a small funnel. 
The skins being nearly full, tie up the other extrem- 
ity, and divide the whole length in parts about five 
inches long by means of fine string. Here you must 
mind not to have the sausages too full, but to allow 
space for the swelling of the custard while cooking. 
Have ready a stewpan full of water raised to the boil- 
ing-point, and plunge in it the sausage. Let them 
remain in the water twenty minutes, taking care 
that they do not boil, for the least ebullition would 
burst the skins. Care must also betaken to gently 
stir the sausage in the water with a wooden spoon at 
the beginning of the poaching process; failing this, 
the fine herbs would fall to the bottom of the custard. 
When the sausages are cooked enough take them up 



42 . EGG COOKERY. 

and plunge them into a basin of cold water, and, 
when ready to serve, peal off the skin, warm the saus- 
ages in hot water or broth, and dish them up on a 
bed of mashed potatoes. 

86.— Eggs a la Hollandaise. 

Put five yolks of eggs in a middling-sized stewpan, 
with half a gill of thick cream, and two ounce? of 
fresh butter cut up in small pieces. Seasou with salt 
and pepper, and whisk on the fire until the sauce 
thickens ; but mind it does not boil. Add then two 
spoonfuls of Bechamel; and, if the sauce is intended 
to be served with fish, add to it a few drops of tarra- 
gon and chili vinegar previously boiled down. Should 
the sauce be wanted for dressed vegetables, such as 
asparagus, cauliflower, etc., add a few drops of lemon- 
juice instead of vinegar. 

87.— Egg Cheese. Fromage d'Oeufs, 

Ten eggs, three half -pints of milk, six tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, a few drops of lemon juice and a little 
salt. Mix well in a large bowl, pass it, when well 
mixed, through a hair-sieve in a sauce-pan over a 
slow fire till it begins to run, stir one minute more 
and pour out in a mould which keep in a cool place. 
Serve on a platter with ice-cold vanilla-sauce poured 
over it. 

88.— Eggs a la Princesse. 

Butter twelve dariole moulds, and line them with 
a coating of chicken forcemeat. Keep them on the 



Jil&G OOOKEKY, 43 

ice while you prepare some mixed eggs with fine 
herbs well seasoned (as described in Recipe 81), and 
with them fill up the dariole moulds, leaving a space 
a quarter of an inch on the top which is to be filled 
up with forcemeat. Put the moulds to steam for 
ten minutes, taking care not to let the water boil; 
then turn them out and dish them up. Pour over 
some clear half-glace, and serve. 

89— Buttered Eggs with Truffles. 

Prepare the eggs according to directions for plain 
buttered eggs, and add to them some truffles, either 
cut in small dice, chopped fine, or shredded. Place 
round the base a border of truffles thinly sliced. 

Buttered eggs may be served with a variety of ac- 
companiments, such as chopped ham or tongue, fish, 
capers, vegetables, croutons, caviare, etc. 

90— The Ordinary Omelette. 

Break five whole eggs in a bowl, season them with 
salt and pepper, add two spoonfuls of cream ; beat 
the mixture well with a fork or an egg-whisk for a 
minute or two. Take an omelette-pan and melt in 
it two ounces of fresh butter. When the butter is 
very hot (but not till then) put the eggs into the 
pan, and keep stirring them with a kitchen spoon 
until they begin to set; then fold up the partially 
formed omelette by bringing the sides towards the 
centre; let it acquire a nice golden colour; turn it 
out on a dish, and serve. An omelette properly made 
ought to be soft and mellow in the middle, and should 
be served as soon as cooked. If allowed to wait or 



44 EGG COOKERY. 

get cold it will lose the best of its qualities, and be- 
come tough and heavy. 

The omelette-pan should never be used for any other 
purpose but omelettes, and must not be washed, but 
simply wiped with a cloth, then put away in a dry 
place. By adopting such precautions the omelette 
will never stick to the pan. 

91.— Omelette with Fine Herbs. 

Chop fine and separately three shallots, four mush- 
rooms, and a handful of parsley. Fry first the shal- 
lots in clarified butter or in oil, and when of a nice 
yellow colour add the chopped mushrooms. Fry one 
or two minutes longer, and finally add the chopped 
parsley. These three ingredients constitute what is 
termed k fine herbs' and will keep good for several days 
if put on the ice or in a cold place. In restaurants 
and hotels a quantity may be prepared at a time, and 
will be found very useful for seasoning purposes. 

Break four or five eggs in a bowl. Season well, 
add the fine herbs and two spoonfuls of cream; beat 
the whole with a whisk or fork, and fry the omelette 
as described in the foregoing recipe. Dish it up, and 
poar over a little good gravy or half-glaze. 

92.— Omelette k TAlgerienne, 

Wash a handful of rice, blanch and drain it in a 
colander. Put it back in the stewpan with half a 
pint of white broth, one onion, a little salt, and two 
ounces of butter. Let it sook gently in a covered 
stewpan, and when done take away the onion, and 
add to the rice a spoonful of tomato sauce well re- 
duced, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. 



EGG COOKERY. 45 

Break five eggs in a bowl, beat them with a whisk, 
season with salt, pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and 
add two spoonfuls of cream. Then fry the mixture 
in an omelette-pan with two ounces of butter. When 
the eggs are beginning to set, spread the rice in the 
middle" and wrap it up with the sides of the omelette. 
Turn the latter over on a dish, and sauce with a clear 
tomato sauce. 

93 —Omelette with Spinach. 

Boil some spinach, chop it fine and pass it through 
a wire-sieve; put it in a stewpan with a good lump of 
butter, some salt, pepper, and a pinch of sugar. Stir 
it on the fire until hot. 

Break five fresh eggs in a bowl, season, beat them 
with a whisk, and add some chopped chervil and a 
spoonful of the spinach. Proceed then as for an or- 
dinary omelette, and the result will be a very effect- 
ive dish of a bright green colour. When the omelette 
is dished up pour round it some thin Bechamel sauce 
(see 27). 

94.— Omelette with Kidneys. 

This omelette is more popular than any other of 
its kind. Slice up very thinly four sheep's kidneys; 
season them and fry them in oil or clarified butter on 
a brisk fire; then drain off the butter or oil; add a 
little flour, some fine herbs, a glass of sherry, and 
half a gill of stock. Stir on the fire, but be careful 
not to let it boil. On the other hand, make an ome- 
lette of five eggs well-seasoned with fine herbs; stir 
on the fire, and when nearly set spread the kidneys 
in the interior; fold up the omelette, dish it up, and 



46 EGG COOKERY. 

pour over it some clear Espagnole sauce made sharp 
with the addition of a little Worcester sauce. 

Sauce Espagnole.— -Put in a stew-pan two slices of 
ham, three of veal, two of carrots and two of onions 
cut in slices. Put the pan on the fire with half a 
cupful of good stock, half a pint of white wine, put 
in some sprays of parsley, a clove of garlic and a 
clove or two, let it boil for three hours, pass it 
through a wire-sieve, thicken with flour and keep in 
a cool place for use. 

95.— Omelette k l'Ecarlate, 

Chop two large onions and fry them a nice colour 
in oil ; then drain off the oil and add six minced toma- 
toes, a sprig of thyme, half a bay leaf, a few pepper- 
corns, three cloves, and half a dozen sliced fresh 
mushrooms. Let the sauce simmer for fifteen min- 
utes; skim it and pass it through a fine strainer. 
Beat five eggs in a bowl with a spoonful of the to- 
mato sauce, one of double-cream, and a little chopped 
parsley. Fry the omelette as already directed, and 
turn it on a dish. Sauce the omelette with some of, 
the tomato sauce, and serve. 

96— Omelette with Sorrel (Chervil). 

Pick and wash well two or three handfuls of sorrel 
and fry in a sauce-pan with a good lump of butter. 
Season with salt, pepper, a pinch of sugar, and a 
spoonful of Bechamel sauce. Pass it through a wire- 
sieve, put the sorrel back into the sauce-pan, and re- 
duce it over a sharp fire. Thicken the pur6e with 
two yolks of eggs and a drop of cream. The sorrel 



EGG COOKERY. 47 

must be of a consistency which will permit its being 
put in the centre of the omelette. Turn out on a 
dish, and sauce over with some thin Bechamel (see 27). 

97.— Omelette with Cheese. 

Proceed as for the omelette with sorrel, but replace 
the last ingredient with a cheese-batter made thus: 
Put in a sauce- pan one whole egg and two yolks, mix 
with a spoonful of flour and a quarter of a pint of 
milk, one ounce of butter, a pinch of salt, and a little 
cayenne pepper. Stir on the fire with a wooden 
spoon. At boiling-point this preparation will become 
thick; stir it quickly to keep the batter smooth, and 
reduce it for five minutes. Add to it a handful of 
grated Swiss cheese and one of Parmesan, and spread 
it in the centre of the omelette, which turn out on 
the dish. Shake some grated cheese over, and pour 
a little white sauce round. 

A plainer cheese omelette can be made by simply 
mixing the grated cheese with the eggs before be- 
ginning to fry the omelette. When the omelette is 
turned on the dish shake some grated Parmesan over, 
and colour with the red-hot salamander. 

98.— Omelette k Tlndienne. 

Fry a chopped onion and when of a nice yellow 
colour add to it a spoonful of curry-powder and two 
of cream; continue stirring on the fire two minutes 
longer, and mix the preparation with five beaten 
eggs and season with salt only. Melt two ounces of 
fresh butter in an omelette-pan, and proceed as for 
an ordinary omelette ; but before turning the ome- 



48 EGG COOKERY. 

lette on the dish, fill up the interior with some rice 
prepared according to the following directions: 
Wash a handful of rice, put it on a napkin to drain 
off all the moisture. Place in a small stewpan with 
one ounce of fresh butter and fry it for a few min- 
utes, stirring it continuously with a wooden spoon ; 
then moisten it with boiling water, and add a little 
salt and one whole onion. When the rice is done 
take out the onion and add a piece of butter. Mix 
well with a kitchen fork. The rice a VIndienne must 
never be stirred with a metal-spoon. When the ome- 
lette is dished up pour round it some thin curry sauce, 

99.— Omelettes with Croutons of Bread. 

Cut some stale bread in small squares similar to 
those served with thick soups, fry in oil or clarified 
butter, and drain them on a small colander. Beat 
five whole eggs with a whisk, add a little cream, some 
pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and the fried croutons. 
Put two ounces of fresh butter in an omelette-pan, 
and when the butter is very hot pour in the eggs; 
fry the omelette of a nice yellow colour, and turn it 
on a dish. Serve round a little half -glaze or good 
gravy. 

100.— Omelette with Oysters. 

Put in a stewpan a dozen large oysters with their 
liquor. Set them on the fire, and when they begin 
to simmer drain them on a small colander, and save 
the liquor. Take off the beards and the hard part of 
the oyster, saving only the tender part; cut them in 
two if they happen to be too large. Next, knead one 
ounce of butter with a little flour, add the liquor of 



EGG COOKERY. 49 

the oysters, a drop of cream, and season to taste. 
This sauce, when finished, must be of a good consist- 
ency. Add the oysters to the sauce, and with that 
fill up the middle of an omelette. Turn it out when 
done, and serve round it a little anchovy sauce. 

101.— Omelette k la Langtry. 

This omelette is the best and the lightest of all 
omelettes. Much pains must be taken in its prepar- 
ation, but the result is such that one is well rewarded 
for the trouble. Break in a bowl four yolks of eggs; 
season with pepper, salt, fine herbs, and two spoon- 
fuls of cream. Work the yolks with a whisk for a 
couple of minutes and incorporate the four whites 
whipped very stiff. Melt in an omelette-pan two 
ounces of fresh butter, and when it begins to fritter, 
pour in the eggs, which stir quickly with an iron 
spoon. As soon as the eggs get warm they com- 
mence to rise; be careful that the omelette in cook- 
ing does not fall over the edge of the pan. This can 
be avoided by bringing the sides towards the centre, 
until the omelette begins to set. Let it develop a 
light-brown colour, and turn it out on a dish. Pour 
round a little good gravy or thin sauce. 

I02.-Omelette with Bacon. 

Break, season, and beat the eggs as for an ordinary 
omelette. On the other hand, cut a little streaky 
bacon into small dice or in shreds, which mix with 
the beaten eggs. Cook the omelette, and send it up 
with a little gravy. 



50 EGG COOKERY. 

103.— Omelette with Mushrooms. 

Wash well and peel a handful of mushrooms, shred 
them and put them into a frying-pan with an ounce 
of butter, some salt, pepper, a little chopped parsley, 
and a few drops of lemon-juice. Fry quickly over a 
fierce fire for two or three minutes, and spread the 
mushrooms in the centre of the omelette when it is 
nearly cooked. Wrap them up well, and turn out 
the omelette on a dish. Sauce with a thin brown 
sauce. 

104.— Sportsman's Omelette. 

Take the meat of a roasted or braised pheasant, 
grouse or pardridge, put it in a mortar with one 
ounce of butter, a little salt, pepper, a little ground 
allspice, and a spoonful of well-reduced brown sauce. 
Pound the whole together, and pass it through a 
wire-sieve. Make an omelette of five eggs, fry it, 
and, when nearly done, stun it with the puree; turn 
it out on a dish, and sauce it over with a fwnet de 
gibier, made according to the following directions: 

Fumet de gibier. — Put the bones of the pheasant, 
grouse or pardridge, coarsely chopped, into a stew- 
pan, with a glass of portwine or madeira, two shallots, 
one onion, pepper-corns, thyme and bay-leaf, and a 
few shredded mushrooms. Start these ingredients 
to boil on a fierce fire for a few minutes, keeping the 
stewpan hermetically closed; then moisten the veget- 
ables with a gill of stock and half a pint of brown 
sauce. Let it simmer a quarter of an hour, pass the 
sauce through a fine strainer, let it simmer again, so 
as to skin off the grease, and pour it over the ome- 



EGG COOKERY. 51 

lette. Truffles chopped or cut in dice may be added 
to the puree. 

c, 105.— Travellers Omelette. 

This omelette is intended to be eaten cold, and is 
a good substitute for sandwiches. 

Make an omelette of three eggs and cook it, but in- 
stead of folding it in the manner usual with all ome- 
lettes, slide it from thS~ pan on a plate and let it get 
cold. When it is thoroughly cold, garnish with a 
puree made thus: 

Pound in a mortar two ounces of cooked ham or 
tongue with two ounces of roast or boiled fowl, and 
the same quantity of butter; season with pepper and 
mustard, but omit salt, as the preparation is sufficient- 
ly salted with the ham or tongue; pass this puree 
through a wire-sieve and spread it over the cold ome- 
lette, which you roll as an ordinary pancake. 

106— Omelette a la Provencale. 

First, rub the frying-pan with a clove of garlic, 
then put in it half a gill of olive oil, in which fry 
four large sliced onions. When they are of a nice 
yellow colour, drain them and keep them hot until 
wanted. Replace the pan on the fire with two oun- 
ces of butter, and when the latter is very hot, fry in 
it a well-seasoned omelette made with five eggs. 
When the omelette is nearly done fill up the centre 
with the fried onions and turn it out on a dish; pour 
round a little good gravy. In Spain and the south 
of France it is customary to fry some chopped garlic 
with the onions, but the cook will find that the rub- 



52 EGG COOKERY. 

bing of a clove of this powerful seasoner on the sides 
of the omelette-pan is quite sufficient to suit any 
palate. 

107.— Omelette with Truffles. 

Wash, peel, and slice up four large truffles; fry 
them in oil on a sharp fire for three or four minutes, 
with a pinch of salt and a little pepper. Drain off 
the oil, and add to the truffles a glass of madeira, a 
little chopped and blanched parsley, and a spoonful 
of strong brown sauce; let it simmer for a few min- 
utes, and garnish the inside of the omelette with it. 
When it is turned out on the dish, the sauce-pan in 
which the truffles have been fried must be rinsed with 
a glass of madeira and a little half -glaze, and then 
poured over the omelette. 

108.— Russian Omelette. 

The Russian omelettes are garnished with caviare, 
and are served either hot or cold. 

Prepare your eggs as for an ordinary omelette, add- 
ing a little extra cayenne pepper to the preparation. 
Put a piece of butter the size of a nut in each com- 
partment of the pan, and when the butter is melted 
put a spoonful of the preparation in each of the di- 
visions of the pan. Place the latter on a fierce fire, 
and when the omelettes are coloured on one side turn 
them over with a fork, but do not replace the pan on 
the fire ; leave them half a minute, then remove and 
lay them on a baking-sheet. If they are meant to 
be served hot, spread the caviare on them and roll 
them like pancakes. Put them in an oven to get 
warm a few minutes before they are wanted, care be- 



EGG COOKERY. 53 

ing taken not to let them get too hot, or the caviare 
will lose its distinctive qualities, and get tough. If 
the omelettes are intended to be served cold, they had 
better be kept on the ice until wanted. 

The caviare omelettes are served in Russia as a 
'hors d'oeuvre' after the soup, but in England they 
are handed with the cheese. 

109.— Omelette a la Milanaise. 

Boil some macaroni in salt and water until quite 
done, then drain it on a colander, and let cold water 
run over it. Drain it it a second time, lay it on a nap- 
kin, and cut it in pieces about an inch long. Melt in 
a stewpan two ounces of butter, and mix with it the 
macaroni, season to taste, and add an equal quantity 
of grated Parmesan and Gruyere Cheese. Add like- 
wise a litlle tomato sauce; toss these ingredients to- 
gether on the fire, but do not let them boil. 

Make an omelette of five eggs, according to the 
directions given above, and fill the centre of it with 
the macaroni. Sift over the omelette some grated 
cheese, and pour round it some thin tomato sauce; 
truffles, tongue, and mushroms cut in scollops or 
shredded may be added to the macaroni. 

110.— Omelette au Jambon. (Ham Omelette). 

There are two ways of making this omelette: 
1. Chop some cooked ham very fine, and mix with 
the eggs (one spoonful for each egg). Season with 
pepper, but omit salt, as the omelette is sufficiently 
salted by the ham. Proceed then as for the ordinary 
omelette. 



54 EGG COOKERY. 

2. Pound the ham in a mortar with a piece of but- 
ter and a spoonful of Bechamel sauce, season with a 
pinch of cayenne pepper, and pass the ham through 
a wire-sieve. Garnish the interior of the omelette 
with this pur£e, and serve. Pour some good gravy 
on the dish. 

111.— Omelette k l'Allemande. 

Put into a kitchen bowl two spoonfuls of flour; add 
three whole eggs and a gill of cream or good milk. 
Season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg; 
pass it through a strainer, and add a little chopped 
chives and parsley. 

Take a flat-bottom frying pan in which you melt 
one ounce of butter ; put it on the fire, and when the 
butter is very hot, pour in it half the batter, and 
spread it evenly all over the pan. When the ome- 
lette is cooked on one side, turn it as is done for pan- 
cakes; then slip it on a plate and garnish with a 
puree of mushrooms. Roll it and dish it on a small 
oval dish. Renew the operation with the remainder 
of the butter, and dish up the second omelette by the 
side of the first. Pour over them some good gravy 
or half-glaze. 

These omelettes are often served in Germany as a 
garnish to vegetables, such as peas, spinach, sorrel, 
etc., in which case they are cut in small pieces one 
inch long, and arranged around the vegetables. 

112.— Swiss Meat Omelettes. 

A good way to use cold meat. Cold meat chopped 
fine with raisins, allspice, nutmeg, salt, lemon peel 



EGG COOKERY. 55 

and juice. Add one egg, one teaspoonful sugar, cloves. 
The above mixture is the middle of the omelettes. 
Three eggs, one pint milk, two teacupfuls flour; make 
the batter thin. Fry in a little lard; put a spoonful 
of the chopped meat in the centre and fold the batter 
around it once. 

113— Beef Omelette. 

Four pounds of round beef, uncooked, chopped 
fine; six eggs beaten together; five or six soda crack- 
ers rolled fine ; little butter and suet, pepper, salt and 
sage, if you choose; make two loaves, roll in cracker; 
bake about an hour ; slice when cold. 

114.— Tomato Omelette. 

One quart of tomatoes, chopped finely (after the 
skin is removed), and put into a sauce-pan with two 
finely-chopped onions, a little butter, salt and pep- 
per, one cracker pounded finely, cover tight, and let 
it simmer about an hour; beat five eggs to a froth : 
have your griddle hot ; grease it well ; stir your eggs 
into the tomato, beat together, and pour into the 
griddle; brown on one side, fold, and brown on the 
other. To be served hot. 

115.— Omelette au Naturelle. 

Break eight or ten eggs into a bowl; add a small 
teaspoonful of salt and a little pepper, with a table- 
spoonful of cold water; beat the whole well with a 
spoon or whisk. In the meantime put some fresh 
sweet butter into an omelet pan, and when it is near- 
ly hot, put in an omelet; while it is frying, with a 
skimmer spoon raise the edges from the pan that it 



56 EGG COOKERY. 

may be properly done. When the eggs are set and 
one side is a fine brown, double it half over and serve 
hot. These omelets should be put quite thin in the 
pan; the butter required for each will be about the 
size of a small egg. 

116.— Eggs k la Neige. 

Whip six whites of eggs until they are quite firm, 
and mix with them three ounces of sugar sifted 
through a hair-sieve; add a few drops of essence of 
Vanilla, or of orange-flower water. 

Put a quart of milk to boil in a deep saute-pan, 
and remove the skin that will rise to the surface. 
Then with a tablespoon take up some of the whites 
and mould against the side of the egg bowl, to give 
it a nice and even shape, and with a knife make it 
slip from the spoon into the milk, which must be 
kept at boiling point, but without actually boiling. 
When the saute-pan is full, put a cover on it, and let 
it stand away from the fire for ten or twelve minutes. 
Then, with a slice take up the eggs, and drain them 
on a sieve. Meanwhile make a custard with the six 
yolks, a little sugar, and half-pint of good cream ; 
flavour it with the same substance that the whites were 
flavoured with, and stir on the fire till the custard is 
set; but do not let it boil or it will curdle; strain it 
through a colander and leave it in a cold place. 
When ready to serve, dish the eggs k la neige in a 
circular form, and sauce them over with the custard. 
This dish is generally served cold, but it may also be 
served hot. The custard may be flavoured either with 
coffee or chocolate, or instead of a custard a light 
syrup of raspberry or strawberry may be used. 



EGG COOKERY. 57 

117.— Eggs Mousseline. 

Break four yolks of eggs in a small stewpan; add 
two ounces of butter in small pieces, the juice of a 
lemon, and the grated rind of another. Stir these 
ingredients with a wooden spoon, put the stewpan in 
a deep saute-pan containing boiling water, and pro- 
ceed as for a Dutch sauce. When the custard begins 
to thicken, take off the stewpan from the fire and 
stir quickly with a whisk. Whip the four whites, 
and, when they are very stiff, mix them lightly with 
the custard, and fill with this preparation a dozen 
fireproof china souffle-cases up to the rim; tie round 
the cases some buttered strips of paper and place 
them in a flat stewpan, closing hermetically. Pour 
some boiling water in the pan, which set on the fire. 
As soon as the water begins to simmer, pull off the 
stewpan entirely from the fire and shut it up closely, 
so that the steam does not escape. Do not remove 
the cover for twelve minutes. When the eggs are 
done, take them up, remove the paper from the cases, 
shake some bruised ratafias on the top, and serve as 
soon as possible. 

This excellent entremet, which is quite new and 
very little known, requires to be made, served, and 
eaten as quickly as possible. At first sight, this re- 
cipe appears very complicated, but after a trial, one 
will be convinced that it is not so difficult as it ap- 
pears. 

118.— Plain Custard. 

Break in a bowl four whole eggs and four yolks ; 
add two ounces of sugar and a quart of milk; flavour 



58 EGG COOKERY. 

with vanilla, lemon or orange; pass through a fine 
strainer into a buttered pie-dish, or into some small 
custard-cups. The dish or the cups containing the 
custard is then placed in a fiat stewpan with a tight 
cover, containing some boiling water. Set the pan 
to simmer, and draw it away from the fire. Let it 
stand by the side of the stove until the custard is set. 
When about to serve, shake on the the top some 
bruised ratafias. It can be served hot or cold, accord- 
ing to fancy. The custard may be flavoured with 
coffee, chocolate, orange-flower water etc. It may 
also be steamed in a charlotte mould by adding two 
or three whole eggs to the custard, and served with a 
fruit syrup or with an egg sauce. 

119.— Lemon Custard. 

Take the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, 
one cup sugar; one cup cold water, butter one-half 
the size of an egg^ one tablespoonful of corn-starch 
rubbed smooth in a little cold water; the grated peel 
of a large lemon, and the juice. Beat all together. 
Bake in custard cups, leaving a space at the top. 
Whip the whites of the other two eggs, adding three 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. When the cust- 
ard is done, take from the oven, fill the top space 
with the whipped egg^ spread on smoothly. Return 
to the oven till a delicate brown. 

120.— Custard Souffle. 

Two scant tablespoonfuls of butter, two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one 
cupful of milk, four eggs. Let the milk come to a 



EGG COOKERY. 59 

boil. Beat the flour and butter together; add to them, 
gradually, the boiling milk, and cook eight minutes, 
stirring often. Beat the sugar and the yolks of the 
eggs together. Add to the cooked mixture, and set 
away to cool. When cool, beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff broth, and add to the mixture. Bake 
in a buttered pudding-dish for twenty minutes in a 
moderate oven. Serve immediately, with creamy sauce. 

121.— Boiled Custard Pudding. 

Prepare the custard in the usual way; butter a 
small china-bowl that will exactly hold it. Put in 
the custard and tie a floured cloth over it, plunge it 
into boiling water, float it about for a few minutes, 
boil it slowly for half an hour, turn it out and serve. 

122.-Baked Custard Pudding. 

Line the edges of a small dish with paste; put the 
custard into it, grate a little nutmeg over it and bake 
in a slow oven for half an hour. 

123.— Boiled Custard. 

One quart of milk, yolks of five eggs and the 
whites of seven (two for the meringue), six table- 
spoons sugar, vanilla flavoring — one teaspoon to the 
pint. Heat the milk almost io boiling; beat the 
yolks light and stir in the sugar. Add the milk as 
follows: take the milk from the fire, and instead of 
pouring the beaten eggs in it, put a spoonful or two 
of the milk to them, beating well all the while, add- 
ing more and more milk as you mix, until there is no 
longer danger of sudden curdling ; stir in five whites 



60 EGG COOKERY. 

whipped stiff; return to the fire and stir until thick, 
but not until it breaks. Season it with vanilla; pour 
into glass cups; whip the whites of two eggs to a 
meringue with a heaping tablespoon of powdered 
sugar, and when the custard is cold, pile a little of 
this upon the top of each cup. You may lay a pre- 
served strawberry, or cherry, or a bit of melon sweet- 
meat, or a little bright jelly upon each. 

124.— Chocolate Custard. 

Four ounces sweet chocolate, one pint boiling wa- 
ter, eight eggs, three tablespoonfuls sugar, one quart 
of milk or cream. Scrape the chocolate, pour the 
water on it, cover closely until dissolved, frequently 
stirring; pour this by degrees into the milk, alternat- 
ing with the eggs, previously beaten, leaving out two 
of the whites; add the sugar, pour the mixture into 
cups, and bake ten minutes. Serve cold with sweet- 
ened cream or the white of an egg beaten to a stiff 
froth and heaped on top. 

125.— Rice Custard. 

Sweeten a pint of milk with loaf sugar, and put it 
on to boil with a stick of cinnamon in it; while boil- 
ing, stir in fine rice flour till it is quite thick; then 
take it off the fire, add the whites of three eggs, well 
beaten, stir it again over the fire for two or three 
minutes, then put into cups that have laid in cold 
water, but do not wipe them. When cold turn them 
out into the dish in which they are to be served ; and 
pour round them a custard, made of the yolks of the 
eggs, and a little more than half a pint of milk. Put 



£GG COOKER"?. 61 

on the top a little red currant jelly , or raspberry jam. 
It makes a handsome supper dish. 



7 



126,— Floating Island. 

One-half package gelatine, one pint of water; soak 
twenty minutes ; add two cups of sugar, set it on the 
stove to come to a boil ; when nearly cold, add the 
whites of four eggs beaten stiff, the juice and rind of 
two lemons, and pour into a mould; turn over the 
form. Make a custard of the yolks of four eggs, a 
quart of milk, and a small tablespoon of corn starch, 
sweetened to taste. 

127,— Snow Pudding. 

Soak half a paper of gelatine (one oz.) in one-half 
pint of water and one-half pint of wine, or all water, 
if preferred J add the juice of two lemons, and sugar 
to taste. Boil half the lemon peel in a pint of water, 
and pour over the gelatine; when it cools and begins 
to thicken, add the whites of three eggs, beaten to a 
stiff froth; beat all together well, and set by to 
harden. 

Make a soft custard of the yolks of the eggs, three 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, one of corn starch, one pint 
of milk, and a little salt, flavour with vanilla; pour 
over the pudding when cold. 

128.— Eggs with Caramel. 

Put two ounces of sugar to boil in a sugar-pan 
with two or three ounces of water, and keep it boil- 
ing until the sugar begins to turn brown. At this 
stage it is called Caramel Sugar. Take a dozen dari- 



62 EGG COOKERY. 

ole moulds, and while the sugar is hot pour some of 
it in each of the moulds, turning them round to make 
the sugar adhere to the sides. Then fill up the 
moulds with a custard (see 118) and set them to steam 
for twenty minutes, taking care not to let the water 
boil. A common potatosteamer answers admirably 
well for the purpose. When quite set, turn the 
custard out of the moulds. As the caramel will have 
become liquid under the action of the heat, the cust- 
ard does not require any sauce. Instead of dariole 
moulds, a charlotte mould may be used to steam the 
custard; but in that case it is advisable to make it a 
little firmer by the addition of two whole eggs. 

129.— Meringues. 

To make this delicious entremet white of egg alone 
is required. Break in a copper egg-bowl eight whites 
of eggs, and beat them with a whisk until they are 
stiff and frothy (see Appendix, How to Whip White 
of Eggs). Then replace the whisk by a wooden 
spoon, and mix with the whipped whites one pound 
of sugar sifted through a hair-sieve. Next, take a 
bisquit-bag, affix to it a tin icing-pipe one third of an 
inch in diameter, and fill it with the whipped eggs. 

Cut some strips of strong paper, on which squeeze 
out the meringues, giving them the shape and size 
of half an egg. When all the meringues are ranged 
on the paper, cover them with plenty of sifted sugar 
and let them remain for five minutes. While the 
meringues are absorbing the sugar, prepare some 
thick boards, which wet on both sides with a sponge 
dipped in cold water. Then take each individual 



EGG COOKERY. 63 

strip of paper by the ends and turn it swiftly upside 
down, so that all the sugar that does not adhere to 
the meringues may fall off; then turn them back and 
place them on the damp board; bake them in a very 
slack oven, and when they begin to get slightly col- 
oured, take them out, detach them from the paper^ 
and with a teaspoon take out part of the inside. 
Then put the meringues on a baking-sheet, the hollow 
side upwards, and replace them in the oven until they 
are dried and of an even colour. The meringues are 
then ready, and may be kept a long time if they are 
enclosed in a tin box and kept in a very dry place. 
When they are required to be served, they must be 
garnished with whipped cream, flavoured with vanilla, 
sugar, orange-flower water, etc. Two of the garnish- 
ed shells are then stuck together, and the meringues 
are dished up on a napkin in a pyramidal form. They 
may also be garnished with all sorts of jam; but 
cream is preferable. If garnished with ice cream, 
they form an excellent entremet. Care must be taken 
not to garnish the meringues long before they are 
wanted, for the shells would get softened, and there- 
fore lose their principal quality, namely, crispness. 

130.— Rum Omelette. 

Take four whole eggs, add to them one spoonful of 
cream, a little lemon-rind, grated or chopped fine, a 
few drops of rum, and a very small pinch <& salt. 
Beat the eggs with a whisk, and having melted one 
ounce of fresh butter in an omelette-pan, pour m, the 
eggs, stirring them continuously with an iron spoon 
until they begin to set. Bring back the sides *& the 



64: EGG COOKERY. 

omelette towards the centre and turn it on a dish. 
Shake some pounded sugar over it, and with an iron 
skewer made red hot touch it lightly and quickly, so 
as to form some stripes or any other designs. Pour 
over some rum, and when ready to send to table set 
fire to the spirit. 

Kirschwasser, madeira, or brandy may also be used ; 
but rum is most generally employed. 

131.— Jam Omelette. 

Beat four fresh eggs in a bowl, add the chopped or 
grated rind of a lemon or of an orange, a very small 
pinch of salt, and a drop of cream. Proceed to make 
an omelette as in the foregoing recipe; but before it 
is entirely set, spread some apricot or other jam in 
the middle ; fold it up and turn it on a dish, sift some 
fine sugar over and mark it with a red-hot iron skew- 
er, as in the preceeding case. 

132.— Omelette Souffle. 

Break ten yolks of eggs in a large bowl, add six 
ounces of sugar sifted through a hair-sieve, a very 
small pinch of salt, and the grated or chopped rind 
of a lemon. Work the yolks vigorously with a wood- 
en spoon for about ten minutes, and proceed whipp- 
ing the whites in an egg-bowl until very stiff. Then 
mix them lightly with the yolks, and put the prepa- 
ration in a silver or fireproof china souffle*-case pre- 
viously buttered; tie round the case a strip of thick 
buttered paper, and bake the omelette souffle* in a 
moderately hot oven for about fifteen or twenty 
minutes. When ready to serve, take off the strip of 



EGG COOKERY. 65 

paper, strew some fine sugar over, and send up with- 
out delay. 

An omelette souffle should be prepared a few min- 
utes before it is required for consumption, and care 
must be taken that it be not too much done, or it 
will lose its lightness and become tough and heavy. 
It is preferable to have it baked under rather than 
over done. In lieu of a souffle-case, the omelette may 
be baked on a flat silver dish, previously buttered. 
In this case the preparation is piled up, smoothed 
over with the blade of a knife, and put in a moderate 
oven for twelve or fourteen minutes. 

133.— Meringued Omelette. 

Whip two whites of eggs until very stiff, and 
when they are of the proper consistency incorporate 
with them two ounces of sifted sugar. Then make 
an omelette of four eggs, flavoured with lemon, 
orange, or vanilla; when nearly done, garnish the 
interior with apple marmalade; fold it up, turn it on 
a silver dish, and mask it entirely with the meringue 
preparation. Put a little of the latter in a paper bag, 
and pipe some fancy design on the omelette. Shake 
some fine sugar over it, and place it in a hot oven for 
one minute. If the oven is not hot enough to colour 
the meringue at once, use the salamander; the hollow 
parts of the designs may be filled with currant jelly 
and apricot jam. This recipe is very complicated, 
but, if the instructions given are properly followed, it 
forms a very nice entremet. 

134.— Omelette k la Celestine. 

Mix in a middling-sized stewpan two whole eggs, 
two yolks, half an ounce of sifted sugar, and a glass 



66 EGG COOKERY. 

of milk flavoured with vanilla, lemon, or orange- 
flower water. Add one ounce of butter, and stir the 
preparation with a wooden spoon on the fire till it 
begins to thicken; take off the stewpan and work the 
butter into a smooth paste, replace the pan on the 
fire and reduce for three or four minutes. This batt- 
er is called Frangipane. Turn it into a bowl, and 
add to it a few bruised ratafias and a little nut-brown 
butter. Use this preparation to garnish the interior 
of two small omelettes, which are to be dished up 
side by side, and sauce them over with a little apricot 
jam liquefied with a wineglassful of madeira or 
Kirschwasser. 

135.— Chocolate Omelette. 

Dissolve two ounces of Vanilla flavoured chocolate 
with a drop of boiling water; add to it four raw yolks 
of eggs and a spoonful of double-cream. Whip the 
four whites of eggs very firm, and incorporate them 
lightly with the yolks. Proceed then as for the Eggs 
Mousseline (see 117). When the omelette is done, 
dish it up and pour round it some thin chocolate sauce. 

136.— Apple Omelette. 

Eight large apples, four eggs, one cup of sugar, 
one tablespoonful of butter, nutmeg or cinnamon to 
taste. Stew the apples and mash fine; add the butter 
and sugar. When cold add the eggs, well beaten. 
Bake until brown, and eat while warm. 

137.— Sweet Egg Sauce, or 'Sabayon'. 

Break four yolks of eggs in a small stewpan, add 
a little lemon sugar, a wine-glassful of cherry or 



EGG COOKERY. 67 

madeira, or half an ounce of pounded sugar. Place 
the stewpan in a deep saute pan containing boiling 
water, and whisk the same until it becomes light and 
frothy. The water must be kept at boiling-point 
during the whiskiug, but must not actually boil, or 
the eggs will curdle. The process of whisking the 
sauce must be carried on until the eggs are quite set; 
failing this, the sauce will quickly return to its orig- 
inal state of fluidity. 

This sabayon is served with all sorts of steamed 
puddings, and rum, brandy, or kirschwasser may be 
used instead of sherry; but in that case the eggs 
must be diluted first with a drop of water, as the 
strength of the spirit is likely to break up the yolks. 

138.— Eggs with Ginger a la Suzanne. 

Break in a bowl four whole eggs, beat them well 
with a whisk, and add two ounces of sifted sugar, a 
spoonful of powdered ginger, and half a pint of cream. 
Butter a dozen deep tartelette-moulds, fill them with 
the preparation, and let it be steamed until the cu- 
stard is set. 

On the other hand, cut some thick slices of a stale 
brioche, and with a round cutter, the same size as the 
tartelette-moulds, stamp out a dozen pieces, which 
should be fried on both sides in clarified butter. Turn 
out the custards, placing each one on a piece of bri- 
oche, strew some icing sugar over them, and colour 
with the salamander. This entremet may be served 
hot or cold. 

139.— 'Lait de Poule\ 

Break three yolks of eggs in a bowl; mix with 
them a tablespoonful of orange-flower water and one 



68 EGG COOKERY. 

ounce of pounded sugar. Incorporate with them a 
pint of boiling new milk, but gradually, so as not to 
set the eggs. The lait de poule is used to alleviate 
cough and cure colds. It ought to be drank very hot. 

140 -Sweet Eggs Stuffed. 

Boil hard and shell five or six fresh eggs ; divide 
them in two parts crossways and take out the yolks 
which pound in a small mortar with one ounce of 
butter and three or four spoonfuls of well reduced 
apple marmalade flavoured with the grated rind of a 
lemon. Pass the preparation through a wire-sieve, 
and fill up with it the hollow part of the eggs. 

Having stamped out with a round cutter, of the 
same size as the base of the eggs, some slices of stale 
brioche, fry them in clarified butter, and place on 
each of them a piece of the stuffed egg. Stick on the 
top a sprig of green Angelica to imitate the stem of 
a pear, and, before serving, sauce the eggs with ap- 
ricot jam diluted with a glass of sherry and strained 
through a small colander. This entremet is quite new, 
and may be served either hot or cold. 

141.— Egg Flip. 

Break two whole eggs in a stewpan, add a spoon- 
ful of pounded or moist sugar, a teaspoonful of pow- 
dered ginger, and little grated nutmeg. Mix with a 
whisk, and incorporate gradually a pint of old ale. 
Stir on the fire until the eggs are set, but be careful 
not to let the liquor boil. Egg flip must be dranl^ 
while very hot, 



EGG COOKERY. 69 

y 142.— Egg Lemonade. 

Break an egg into a tumbler, rub two lumps of 
sugar on the rind of a fine lemon, put the sugar into 
the tumbler, squeeze the lemon into it with a squeez- 
er, and half fill the tumbler with ice, broken small, 
fill up with water, and, with a shaker, shake the 
whole vigorously a few seconds, then grate a little 
nutmeg over the top. If you have no shaker, beat 
the egg with a fork, 

143,— Ice Creams. 

One quart of milk or cream, four to six eggs, eight 
to fourteen ounces of granulated sugar. Beat the 
eggs and sugar well together, put the milk into a tin 
can or pail, and set it into boiling water; when it 
boils, stir in the eggs, and let it just come to a boil, 
then strain, and flavor with any flavouring extracts; 
put it in cold water to cool, and then freeze. A very 
good freezer may be made by using a tin pail with a 
tight-fitting cover, put into a tub of ice or snow and 
salt; whirl often, and scrape from the sides as fast as 
it freezes. Frequent stirring makes a fine grain. 
Less egg may be used by substituting one tablespoon- 
ful of corn starch in place of each egg. Moisten the 
starch with a little cold milk, and stir into the boil- 
ing milk with egg and sugar. 

144.— Ice-Cream Cake. 

One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, half a 
pound of butter, whites of eight eggs, one teaspoon- 
ful of soda, two teaspoonf uls of cream of tartar, one 
tablespoonful of extract of almond, one-third of a 



fO Has COOKER*. 

cupful of sweet milk. Dissolve the soda in a table- 
spoonful of warm water. Bake iD jelly-cake pans. 

145.— Angel Cake. 

Whites of 11 eggs beaten to a stiff froth ;1 measure 
of sugar, or 9i oz. ; 1 measure of flour, or 5i oz. ; 1 
teaspoonful cream tartar, sifted in with the flour; 1 
teaspoonful extract vanilla. Don't butter the tin. 
Bake 40 minutes. Keep a pint dish of hot water in 
the oven, while baking. Don't open the oven door 
for at least 20 minutes after being put in. Avoid 
jarring the oven while the cake is baking. When the 
40 minutes have passed, take out the tin, turn it bot- 
tom side up, and leave the cake to fall out itself. 

Pan for Baking Angel Cake. — The pan is a tubed 
pudding pan, 11 inches in diameter on top, 8i inches 
on bottom ; height, 4£ inches. Three legs, equal di- 
stances apart, to project 1£ inches above top of pan 
and riveted to the outside. Tube 5i inches long. 

146.— Sponge Cake. 

One cup sugar, 1 cup flour, 4 eggs, 1 even teaspoon- 
ful cream tartar, £ teaspoonful soda dissolved in 1 
tablespoonful milk. Sift the flour before measuring; 
put cream tartar into flour and sift, and a pinch of 
salt. Beat sugar and yolks of eggs together; then 
add the beaten whites, flour, etc. This quantity will 
make 1 loaf and 8 small cakes. 

147.— Dubuque Egg-Cake. 

Take half pound flour, half pound white sugar, 
half pound butter, one teaspoonful cream tartar, half 



tiQQ COOKERY. tl 

teaspoonful soda, whites of eight eggs; stir together 
thoroughly. Flavor with six drops of extract of van- 
illa. Bake half an hour in shallow pans. Get your 
oven hot, then turn the damper forward. 

148.— Sugar Cakes. 

One half pound butter, one pound sugar, two 
pounds flour, one teaspoonful baking powder, five 
eggs, one cup milk. Rub sugar with butter together 
with the eggs, put the milk and flour in and handle 
as little as possible, roll it out to half the thickness 
of a lead pencil and cut it out with a round cutter, 
wash them on top with milk and throw them in gran- 
ulated sugar. Set on a greased pan and bake in a 
quick oven. 

149.— Orange Cake. 

Break the yolks of 5 eggs in a large bowl, add 3 
cups of sugar, one of butter and the juice and a little 
of the grating of an orange. Beat with the hand un- 
til light and creamy. Then add one cup of sweet milk. 
The whites of 5 eggs which must have been beaten to 
a stiff froth, 4 cups of flour into which has been sifted 
one teaspoonful of carbonate of soda and two of cream 
of tartar. Bake in four deep jelly cake pans. 

Icing for Orange Cake. — Put one cup of granu- 
lated sugar on the stove with just enough water to 
moisten it. If you put in too much the icing will be 
thin and run. Let this boil till clear and will spin a 
thread. Beat the white of one egg and have some 
one drip the sugar, while you beat, and continue beat- 
ing until it is thick and white, then stir in orange 
juice, if it is too thin, beat in a little pulverized sugar 
till thick enough. This is a large and verf delicious cake. 



72 EGG COOKERY. 

150.— Rich Luncheon Cake. 

Beat one cup of butter and two cups of flour ill 
which sift a teaspoonf ul of baking powder ;. stir in one 
cup of milk, two of sugar lastly, add the whites of 
eight eggs, bake in jelly-pans, boil two cups of sugar 
with two tablespoons of water until brittle. Re- 
move from the fire and stir in the whites of two eggs, 
add a teacup each choped raisins, citron and figs, 
spread between the layers of cake, and ice the top. 



AP PEND IX. 

Methods of Tasting the Freshness of Eggs. — 
Several inventions of an elaborate kind have been in- 
troduced for testing the newness or freshness of eggs; 
but for domestic purposes, these are scarcely neces- 
sary. A simple method: Take a piece of cardboard 
about five inches square, or of any other form, and 
make a hole in the centre, about one inch in diame- 
ter, and hold this in front of a strong light, or facing 
the sun ; place the egg against the hole, and if it is a 
white-shelled egg^ there will be no difficulty in de- 
termining whether the egg is fresh-laid or not. The 
old saying, 4 As full of meat as a new-laid egg\ is 
strictly correct; for such an egg when examined will 
be found to be quite full; but after the first twenty- 
four hours an air-space or chamber will appear at the 
large end, which gradually enlarges as the egg gets 
staler. A bad egg^ whei* ao placed, not only has a 



APPENDIX. 73 

large air-space, but the whole contents have a mixed 
and dense appearance towards the centre. 

An expert dealer in eggs can detect a stale egg by 
the delicate test of placing the large end in contact 
with the chin, or upon the eye-ball when closed; if it 
is a stale egg^ the air-space being large, the chilly feel 
quickly passes away ; but on the contrary, if the egg 
is fresh and full, it retains its coldness for a more 
lengthened period. For those who wish for a more 
elaborate method of testing eggs, particularly when 
required for hatching purposes, a small but powerful 
lantern is made, with a lens so that it can be em- 
ployed for lightning purposes and egg-testing ; this 
is useful on game or poultry farms. 

There is another and more simple way of testing 
the freshness of eggs : Dissolve four ounces of com- 
mon salt in forty ounces of water ; throw the eggs in, 
and if they are only one day old they will fall to the 
bottom ; if more than six days old they will float and 
the older they are the more buoyant will they bocome. 

How to Preserve Eggs. — There is much diversity 
of opinion as to the best methods of egg-preservation. 
At the Islington, London, England Dairy Show, held 
in October, 1884, the whole subject was, however, 
well elucidated. 

There were thirty-one competing exhibitors, who 
may be said to have employed every known method 
of preserving eggs. /Amongst the worst specimens 
exhibited were eggs either pickled in lime or salt, al- 
though the third prize winner employed the last- 
named process. 

The first prize collection of eggs had been dipped 
in a strong solution of gum Arabic. The operation 



74 APPENDIX. 

was twice repeated; the eggs thoroughly dried, then 
wrapped in paper, and packed in bran. Eggs were 
three days old when prepared. 

Second prize: Eggs preserved with beef and mut- 
ton fat melted togetter; a little painted over each egg 
and then wiped with a cloth. 

Third prize: Eggs preserved in layers of common 
tablesalt, and kept dry. 

One of the methods much used in France to pre- 
serve eggs is to smear them with olive oil in which a 
little beeswax has been melted. Many persons use 
butter, but this is apt to turn rancid, which the oil 
and wax varnish never does. Another method is to 
pack the eggs in brine; and thus kept, they answer 
for many purposes, but they get too salt to be palat- 
able when boiled. If packed tightly in dry white 
salt, they will keep fairly good for six or eight 
months. The lime-water process also answers pretty 
well. *1 Dissolve one peck of lime in thirty gallons 
of water; or still better, bed the eggs closely in lime 
and water mixed into a soft paste. Another plan is 
to dissolve half a peck of new lime in four gallons of 
hot water, stirring it some little time. When cold, 
remove any hard lumps by a coarse sieve, add ten 
ounces of salt and three ounces of cream of tartar, 
and mix the whole thorohghly. The mixture is then 
to be let stand to 'temper' for two weeks before use. 
The eggs are to be packed as closely as possible, and 
to be covered up. Thus treated, if put in when new 

(laid, they will keep good for nine or ten months. 
Eggs preserved by whatever method, should be treat- 
ed the same day they are taken from the nest, as 



APPENDIX. 75 

their quality much depends upon this being attended 
to, and they should always be stood with the large 
end downwards. 

As said before, the egg shell is of a very porous na- 
ture, and it is through these pores that the evapor- 
ation takes place; therefore we may readily conclude 
that any pure and clean material may be safely em- 
ployed for the purpose of effectually closing up the 
said pores, and thus preserving them. In attemting 
to preserve them in salt, care must be taken to store 
the egg away in a perfetly dry place, and in dry salt, 
otherwise there will be a failure/ 

Remedy for Whooping Cough. — Place a clean- 
shelled new-laid egg in a small jar, and cover it with 
best white vinegar or lemon-juice. Tie a skin over 
the mouth of the jar, and let it stand in a warm place 
for about twenty-four hours, or until the whole egg 
is quite dissolved. Take out the skin (undissolved), 
mix one ounce of coarse brown sugar with the liquid. 
Dose: A dessert-spoonful four times a day. 

How to whip White of Eggs. — It seems a simple 
thing to whip white of eggs, yet to succeed requires 
practice and careful attention to bring them to a 
ligt yet firm condition. 

Take an un tinned copper egg-bowl, or if obliged to 
use a tinned one, select one that has been in use for 
some time, for tin has the property of preventing 
white of eggs from getting light and frothy. For 
the same reason do not use a new whisk. 

With the left hand hold the egg-bowl slightly in- 
clined, and take the whisk with the right. Begin 
the operation very slowly, without touching the side 



76 



APPENDIX. 



of the bowl, and gradually increase the swiftness as 
you go on, until your eggs become light and firm. 
This will take about ten or twelve minutes. It hap- 
pens sometimes towards the end of the process that 
the eggs have a tendency to become l snoicy\ This is 
easily seen, as they will not stick to the sides of the 
bowl. The remedy for this is to squeeze in a few 
drops of lemon-juice, and then continue the whisk- 
ing until they re-assume their proper firmness. 

When the white of eggs is whipped enough, it 
must be used at once, as if allowed to stand it will 
soon become useless. 

The Frying-pan. The frying-pan is one of the 
most useful utensils in a kitchen. It is made of steel 
or of cast-iron, and must not be tinned on any ac- 
count. They are also made of fire-proof china. 

There are several kinds of frying-pans: 

1. The flat-bottomed one, which is most common- 
ly used. 

2. The omelette-pan, which differs from the latter 
in shape, the bottom being round instead of flat. 

3. The German frying-pan, with several deep cavi- 
ties made to hold one egg each. 

The ordinary flat frying-pan is generally used for 
omelettes, but it is a mistake, and every cook ought 
to have in his kitchen a regular omelette-pan. Its 
round shape enables you to give the omelette that 
dome form so pleasing to the eye. This pan ought 
not to be used for anything bat omelettes, and must 
never be washed, but simply wiped with a dry cloth. 
The eggs will then never stick to the pan. -^ 



APPENDIX, 77 

The Art of frying.— There are only two methods 
of frying, and the French call one of those methods 
satlte\ Frying means to immerse the egg^ chop, 
croquet, oyster, fritter, or whatever it may be, in a 
bath of hot fat, but most cooks think it is only ne- 
cessary to drop a bit of butter, or lard, or dripping 
on the frying-pan to prevent the chop, etc., from 
sticking. The result is a tough, greasy article not fit 
to be put on the table. 

To fry fish or anything properly you must have a 
deep iron pot, capable of holding two or three pounds 
of fat. Never attempt to fry anything with less than 
a pound — a wire basket and some sheets of blothing 
paper. When you put the fat into the pot put the 
wire basket in also, so that it will heat with the fat. 
Cut the fish into nice filets, dip in egg, then in bread- 
crumbs, and set away in a cold place until the fat is 
hot enough. You can tell this by dropping " piece 
of bread the size of a marble into the fat — if it frizzles 
and produces large babbles of steam, the fat is as hot 
as it possibly can be, and is ready for anything that 
demands quick frying; oysters for instance. But if 
it frizzles slightly and only gives out small steam- 
bubbles, the fat has reached the temperature demand- 
ed for slow frying, and that is what fish, chops, and 
croquets require. 

As soon as the fish turns a nice brown, if it has 
not been in the fat long enough to cook, draw the 
pot back in a cooler part of the range and let it re- 
main in a few minutes longer. Then take it up in 
the wire basket, if you have used one, or, if not, with 
a strainer, and put the fish on warm blothing or 



78 APPENDIX. 

brown paper (such as is used in stores for packages), 
just for a moment to absorb any grease that may be 
on the outside, then place it on a hot dish, garnish 
with lemon, and serve immediately. (Anything fryed 
should be eaten as soon as cooked, otherwise it loses 
its flavor and becomes dry and hard. J 



♦ > » < » 



THE SCIENCE OF A NEW LIFE. 

BY JOHN COWAN, M. D. 

A Book Well "Worth Possessing by Every Thoughtful 
Man and Woman. 

The " Science of a New Life " has received the highest testimonials and com- 
mendations from leading medical and religious critics; has been heartily endorsed 
*>y all the leading philanthropists, and recommended to every well-wisher of the 
auraan race. 

TO ALL WHO ARE MARRIED 

Or are contemplating marriage, it will give information worth HUNDREDS OF 
DOLLARS, besides conferring a lasting Denefit, not. only upon them, but upon 
*heir children. Every thinking man and woman should study this work. Any 
person desiring to know more about the book before purchasing it, may send to us 
.or our 16- page descriptive eircular, giving full and complete table of contents. 
It will be sent free by mail to any address. The following is the table of con- 
tents. 

Marriage and its advantages; Age at which to marry; The Law of choice; Love 
Analyzed; Qualities the Man Should Avoid in Choosing; Qualities the Woman 
Should Avoid in Choosing; The Anatomy and Physiology or Generation in Wo- 
men; The Anatomy and Physiology of Generation in Man; Amativeness — its 
Use and Abuse; The Prevention of Conception; The Law of Continence; Children 
—Their Desirability; The Law of Genius; The Conception of a New Life; The 
Physiology of Inter-Uterine Growth; Period of Gestative Influence; Pregnancy: 
—Its Signs and Duration; Disorders of Pregnancy; Confinement; Management or 
Mother and Child after Delivery; Period of Nursing Influence; Foeticide; Diseases 
Peculiar to Women; Diseases Peculiar to Men; Masturbation; Sterility; and Im- 
potence; Subjects of which More Might be Said; A Happy Married Life— How 
Secured. 

The Dook is a handsome 8VO, and contains over 400 PAGES, with more than 
100 ILLUSTRATIONS, and is sold at the following PRICES— ENGLISH CLOTH, 
BEVELED BOARDS, GILT SIDE AND BACK, $3.00; LEATHER, SPRINKLED 
EDGES, $3.50; HALF TURKEY MOROCCO, MARBLED EDGES, GILT BACK, 
$4.00. Sent by mail, post-paid, to any address, on receipt of price. 

COMMENDATIONS. 

"In a careful examination of Dr. Cowan's SCIENCE OF A NEW LIFE, I 
am prepared to give it my very cordial approval. It deserves to be in every family, 
and read and pondered, as closely relating to the highest moral and physical well- 
being of all its members The essential remedy for these 

great evils is to be found in Dr. Cowan's work; therefore, may it be circulate*? far 
and vvide." William Lloyd Garrison. 

" As it is easier to generate a race of healthy men and women than to regenerate 
♦he diseased and discordant humanity we now have, I heartily recommend the study 
of THE SCIENCE OF A NEW LIFE to every father and mother in the land." 

Elizabeth Cady Stanton. 

" It seems to us to be one of the wisest, and purest, and most helpful of those 
Books which have been written in recent years, with the intention of teaching 
Men and Women the Truths about their Bodies, which are of peculiar importance 

to the morals of Society No one can begin to imagine the misery that 

has come upon the human family eelely through ignorance upon this subject." 

The Christian Union. 

If, after reading the above, you wish to get a copy of the book, send us the 
money by Post-office order or registered letter, and we will send it by return mail. 

Agents wanted to whom we offer liberal terms. Send to us at once for oui 
confidential terms, and state what territory you can work to advantage. 

Address all orders and applications for an agency to 

J. 8. OGILYIE Publisher , 

P. O. BOX 27G7* M^SE SXRJSJST, NSW YQBXt. 



YOUMAN'S 

DICTIONARY 

OF 

Every- Day Wants. 

Containing 20,000 Receipts in Eyery Department of Huiuun 

Effort. 

BY A. E. YOTJMAJNT, M. D. 

Royal Octavo, 530 Pages. Price in Hoik, $4.00; Leatta, $4.75 



$100 a Tear Saved to all who Possess and Bead this Book ! 



No book of greater value was ever offered to Agents to sell. The following 
flat of trades and professions are fully represented, and information of great 
value given in each department. Our 16-page circular, giving full description, sent 
free to any address. 



Clerks, 

Bookkeepers, 

Farmers, 

Stock-raisers, 

Gardeners, 

Florists, 

Builders, 

Merchants, 

Druggists, 

Photographers, 

Architects, 

Artists, 

Bakers, 

Confectioners, 

Engineers, 

Flour Dealers, 

Glass Workers, 

Hair Dressers, 

Hatters, 

Ink Makers, 



Lumber Dealers, 

Miners, 

Opticians, 

Whitewashers, 

Soapmakers, 

Trappers, 

Tiasmiths, 

Cabinetmaker* 

Housekeepers, 

Bankers, 

Barbers, 

Inspectors, 

Bookbinders, 

Gilders, 

Painters, 

Shoemakers, ■< 

Clothiers, 

Dressmakers, 

Dry Goods Dealers, 

Brewers, 



Hardware Dealers, 

Engravers, 

Furriers, 

Glaziers, 

Grocers, 

Hotel Keepers, 

Iron Workers, 

Authors, 

Nurses, 

Perfumers, 

Roofers, 

Stereotypers, 

Tanners, 

Varnishers, 

Cooks, 

Buildeis, 

Dairymen, 

Carpenters, 

Carvers, 

Jewelers, 



Watchmakers, 

Dyers, 

Coopers, 

Coppersmiths, 

Machinists, 

Curriers, 

Doctors. 

Egg Dealers, 

Electrotypera, 

Fish Dealers, 

Gas Burners, 

Glove Cleaners, 

Gunsmiths. 

Hucksters, 

Lithographers, 

Milliners. 

Dentists. 

Plasterers, 

Scourers, 

Tailors. 



We want Agents everywhere to sell this invaluable work, to whom we offer 
bit? pay. A copy of the book will be sent by mail, postpaid, to any address, upon 
receipt of price. For agents' terms, territory, and further particulars, addaess 



J. S. OGILYIE 

f. p. £ox Z7Q7. 



Publisher , 

Rosa Stiwst New York- 



A $10.00 BOOK FOR $2.50! 

MOORE'S 

ONIVERSAL ASSISTANT UD COMPLETE MECHANIC 

Containing over One Million Industrial Facts, 

CALCULATIONS, PROCESSES, TRADE SECRETS, RULES, LEGAL 
ITEMS, BUSINESS FORMS, etc., in every Occupation, from th„ 
Household to the Manufactory. 



A work of unequaled utility to every Mechanic* Farmer, Merchant, 

Business Man, Professional Gentleman, and Householder, as it embraced 

the main points in over 200 Trades and Occupations. It contains 1016 

pages and over 500 illustrations. 

The following synopsis gives some idea of the value and scope of the 

work The contents are as follows: 

Part 1.— Bread, Cracker, Pastry and Cake Baking, Domestic Cooking, etc. 

Parr 2.— For Farmers, Horse Shoers, Stock Owners, Bee Keepers, etc. 

Part 3.— For Lumbermen, Carpenters, Builders. Contractors, Mill Owneis, 
Shipbuilders, Ship Owners, Freighters, Navigators, Oi^arrymen, 
Merchants and Business Men generally. 

Part 4.— Natural Mechanical and Scientific Facts. 

Part 5 —For Dyers, Clothiers, Bleachers, Hatters, Furriers and Manufac- 
turers. 

Part 6.— Medical Department, for Druggists, Physicians, Dentists, Perfum- 
ers, Barbers, and general Family Use. 

Part 7.— For Grocers, Tobacconists, Confectioners, Saloon Keepers, Syrups. 
Cordials, Ice Creains, Summer Drinks, Domestic Wines, Canned 
Goods, Soaps, etc. 

Part 8.— For Tanners and Curriers, Boot, Shoe, Harness and Rubber Manu- 
facturers, Marble and Ivory Workers, Bookbinders, Anglers, Trap- 
pers, etc. 

Part 9.— For Painters, Decorators, Cabinet Makers, Piano and Organ Man- 
ufacturers, Polishers, Carvers, Gilders, Picture Frame and Art 
Dealers, China Decorators. Potters, Glass Manufacturers, Glass 
Stain er s and Gilders, Architects, Masons, Bricklayers, Plasterers, 
Stucco Workers, Kalsominers, Slaters, Roofers, etc. 

Part 10.— For Watchmakers, Jewelers, Gold and Silversmiths, Gilders* 
Burnishers, Colorers, Enamelers, Lapidaries, Diamond Cutters, 
Engravers, Die Sinkers, Stencil Cutters, Refiners, Sweepmelters. 

Tart 11.— For Engineers, Firemen, Engine Builders, Steam Fitters, Mastet 
Mechanics, Machinists, Blacksmiths, Cutlers, Locksmiths, Saw, 
Spring, and Safe Manufacturers, Iron and Brass Founders, Mill 
Owners, Miners, etc. 

Part 12. —For Art Workers, Bronzing, Dipping and Lacquering, Brass Fin 
ishers, Hardware Dealers, Plumbers, Gas Fitters, Tinman, Japan 
ners, etc. 

Part 13.— For Printers and Publishers, Gas Companies and Consumers, Gun. 
smiths, Contractors, Quarrymen, Coal Dealers, Oil Manufacturers, 
Sugar Refiners, Paper Manufacturers, Cotton and Woolen Manu- 
facturers, Cutlers, Needle and File Manufacturers, Metal Smelters, 

P 1* O P t ( * 

Part 14.— Tile Amenities of Life, Useful Advice. 

Part 15.— Tables, etc., Embracing Useful Calculations in every Business. 

Price in Cloth Binding, $2.50; in Leather Binding. $3.50. Standard Ex- 
port Edition, Cloth Binding, $3.00; in Leather, Lettered Back and Marbled 
Edges, Library Style, $4.00. 

Sent by mail, postpaid, to any address on receipt of price. Agents 
wanted, to whom we offer big pay. Addrese, all orders and applications tot 
an agency to 

J. S. OGILVIE Publisher , 

P. O. Box 2767. \ Rose Street, New York 



POPULAR DETECTIVE STORIES 



UNIFORM IN STYLE AND PRICE 
WITH THIS BOOK. 



The Pomfret Mystery. 

Macon Moore, the Southern Detective. 

Harry Pinkerton, the Boss Detective. 

Donald Dyke, the Down-East Detective. 

Dyke and Burr, the Rival Detectives. 

Clarice Dyke, the Female Detective. 

Walt Wheeler, the Scout Detective. 

Nat Foster, the Boston Detective. 

Gipsy Blair, the Western Detective. 

Abner Ferrett, the Lawyer Detective. 

Nemo, the Detective Shadow. 

Luke Leighton, the U. S. Detective. 

Phil Scott, the Indian Detective. 

Allen Keene, the War Detective. 

Victor Maury, the Detective from France. 

Fritz, the German Detective. 

Ned Bachman, the New Orleans Detective. 

Harry Williams, the ITcw York Detective. 

Luke Darby, the '• World" Detective. 

Neil Nelson, the Veteran Detective. 

Helen Elwood, the Female Detective. 

Ed. Sommer, the Pinkerton Detective. 

Fred. Danforth, the Skilful Detective. 

The Railway Detective. 

The Royal Detective. 

No. 99, a Great Detective Story. 

File No. 115. A sequel to " File 113." 



Mailed to any address postpaid on receipt of price by 

J. S. OGILYIE Publisher , 

New York and Chicago* 



CO 



CO 



o 
m 

00 




■o 

c 

m 



z 
m 

> 
r 
H 
X 
■n 
c 
r 



UXTjSLTTJILIErjB 



FOOD, 

V 



The effects 
of Rochelle 
Salts found 
in bread 
made from 
Cream of 
Tartar Bak- 
ing 1 Powders 
is far more 
serious upon 
children 
than adults. 
Dr. ROBT. 
L. DICKIN- 
SON, New 
York. 



PHOSPHATE 



ft 



H 



\ FULL STRENGTH ^ GUARANTEED/ 



R o c h e lie 
Salts should 
not be used 
for feeding 
infants; such 
food is neith- 
er adapted 
for them, nor 
healthy. 

Dr. STUT- 
ZER, Food 
Analyst for 

Rhenish 
Prussia. 



Don't Poison the blood of your babe and little children by eating or feeding 
them bread made from Cream of Tartar or Alum Baking Powders. Beware of 
any Powder that gives prizes and low prices. 

MOTHERS.— By the mother's blood the unborn child is fed. By her 
milk the infant is nourished. A mother knows that when she takes purgative 
medicine her suckling babe feels the effects of it, likewise when she eats Kochelle 
or alum salts these will be found in the blood of her babe, thus planting the 
seeds that in after years ripen into disease. 

OPINIONS OF EMINENT CHEMISTS AND PHYSICIANS. 



NATURE'S FOOD. 

"Phosphate Baking Powder is free 
from Lead and other poisons. I would 
urge their use, and avoid all others." 1 

WM. JAGO, Prof, of Chemistry. 

Brighton, Eng. 

" More bread, and a higher nutri- 
tious quality, is obtained by the use of 
Phosphate Baking Powder." 

Baron JUSTUS LIEBIG. 

"The excitability of the brain and 
nerves depends on the presence of 
Phosphates. The liquidity and color 
of the blood is due to Phosphates. 
The brain's food is Phosphates. It has 
been shown that animals will not live 
if fed on food that does not contain 
Phosphates." Phisological Chemistry. 

"Making bread with the use of 
Phosphates we obtain a more nutii- 
tious value, as the Phosphates are an 
essential food substance. " Cyclopedia 
of Chemistry, vol. l,p. 230. 

" It will not be denied that Phos- 
phates are indispensable for the well 
being of the human body. The food 
of the young is milk, which, like 
wheat, contains a large percentage of 
Phosphate. A s milk is a complete food 
in infancy and vouth, so is wheat for 
man." 

Dr. HERMAN VON FEHLING. 



A SUBSTITUTE. 

"Bread made from Cream Tartar 
Baking Powder is never placed on my 
table. There are sanitary reasons for 
its exclusion. The Rochelle Salts 
formed in baking is diffused through 
the loaf and consumed with it." 
Editor Boston Journal of Chemistry. 
'Unfortunately Cream Tartar con- 
tains traces of Lead, and this metal is 
a very dangerous poison, even when 
t iken in small quantities, as its effects 
accumulate in the system. The Ro- 
chelle Salts it contains possesses an 
aperient action, hence its use is to be 
deprecated. Every ordinary tea bis- 
cuit contaius 20 or more grains of Ro- 
chelle Salts." Chemistry of Wlieat, 
Flour and Bread, p. SSI. 

" Rochelle Salts act directly upon the 

kidnevs, producing Bright's disease " 

WM. E. S. FAILES, EM., LL. B. 

"Rochelle Salts should never be 
used except by Physician s advice, as 
it will produce constipation if an ag- 
gravated tvpe." 

Dr. MOREAU MORRIS, 
N. Y. Board of Health. 

Alum Baking Powders which are 
now largely used in this country, and 
sold by the means of prizes, or low 
prices, are by an Act of Parliament 
prohibited in England, under a penalty 
of flnt- and imprisonment, as they are 
dangerous. 



"Tlie Plio»i»Iiatc Health '» Baking Powder contains no Cream Tar- 
tar, no Rochelle Salts, no Alum. We invite analy is bv any honorable chemists. 
Send us vour address and we will mail voti a free sample. Manufactured by 
NEW YORK PHOSPHATE CO,, Office, No, 124 Warren St, N. Y 

[4. C.J 



3L S 



A 



