
THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 
OF CALIFORNIA 




THE GASTRONOMY COLLECTION OF 
GEORGE HOLL 

AGRIC. 
LIBRARY 



THE TABLE: 

HOW TO BUY FOOD, HOW TO COOK IT, 
AND HOW TO SERVE IT. 



THE TABLE: 



How TO BUY FOOD, How TO COOK IT, 
AND How TO SERVE IT 



BY 

ALESSANDRO FILIPPINI 



NEW YORK: 

CHARLES L. WEBSTER & COMPANY. 
1889. 



Copyrighted, 1889, 

BY CHARLES L. WEBSTER & CO. 
(All Rights Reserved.) 



PRESS OF 

JENKINS & 

224 Centre St., N.Y. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 

FAC-SIMILE LETTERS OF FILIPPINI AND DELMONICO vi-vii 

THE PLEASURES OF THE TABLE 1-3 

OUR MARKETS 4-7 

VARIETIES OF FISH TO BE FOUND IN THE MARKETS DURING 

THE DIFFERENT MONTHS 8-14 

VEGETABLES 1 5-1 7 

WATER-MELONS AND MUSK-MELONS 18 

How TO SET A TABLE 19, 20 

How TO SERVE MEALS 20-23 

MENUS FOR EVERY DAY IN THE YEAR 25-150 

RECIPES ' 151-392 

How TO CARVE. 393, 394 

CELEBRATED MENUS, MANY OF WHICH WERE PREPARED BY 

MR. FILIPPINI 395-409 

CURIOUS MENUS OF VARIOUS NATIONS 411-418 

INDEX 419-432 






<^ 




^^^,^f^^^~^-^C>^>-z^^c^ 



S*- 



X tf 

^4>-*' t 





THE TABLE. 



THE PLEASURES OF THE TABLE. 



THE pleasures of the table are enjoyed by all who possess good health. 
Nothing is more fascinating than to be seated at a well-served, well- 
cooked breakfast or dinner; and yet, of the immense number that 
enjoy the good cheer and luxuries of the table, how few, very few, 
there are who stop to consider the vexatious trouble our host undergoes 
when arranging the daily bill of fare. "Variety is the spice of life," 
but nowhere is it more important, aye, actually necessary, than in the 
getting up of a palatable meal. This pertains not only to the dining-room 
of a hotel of the least pretensions or to the so-called " grand" restaurant, 
but particularly to the family table. The writer has known a gentle- 
man who presided over an immense restaurant, and daily provided the 
supplies therefor. He experienced no difficulty with any single part of 
his business, yet when he came to arrange the details of his own family's 
meals, and attempted to practically fulfill them, he was puzzled and 
annoyed beyond description. And, after all, there is no place in the civil- 
ized world where the market for the supply of food is so well provided 
as in New York, both as to variety and excellence, and even as to luxu- 
ries. Educated as thousands of persons have been, in the art of dining, 
by the famous Delmonico and his able lieutenants, New York, perhaps, 
contains a larger number of so-called high-livers than any other city. 

These " gourmands" (if you please), and their number is legion, have, 
with the aid of the excellent resources of the American market and the 
encouragement given to the culinary art of the period, brought the modern 
American table to virtual perfection. This is saying a great deal, inas- 
much as the famed restaurants of London, Paris, and Vienna have ever 
claimed a reputation and an ascendancy over others that seemed to form 
a part of history itself. 

But as times change, so we change with them. Westward the course 
of Empire sways, and the great glory of the past has departed from those 



THE TABLE. 



centres where the culinary art at one time defied all rivals. The sceptre 
of supremacy has passed into the hands of the great metropolis of the 
New World. It has been the writer's good fortune to gain experience on 
this subject from his observations in Europe as well as in this country. 
He can state, without fear of contradiction, that more first-class, well-fatted, 
and corn-fed cattle reach the markets of New York, than any other market 
of the United States. Whenever a first-class article of beef is required by 
one of the inland hotels, they send to New York for it. 

Ask the ordinary traveler, and he will tell you that a first-class steak, 
an "A i " chop, or prime roast beef is a rara avis in hotels outside 
of New York. London has excellent mutton and good beef; that is all. 
Paris gives plenty of variety, but it is all of an inferior quality with the 
exception of veal, which is good. The same may be said of northern 
Germany, where, in addition, the larger hotels in Hamburg and Bremen 
are able to supply good steaks, the cattle in that country being of fine 
quality. 

Yet no American, accustomed to his prime beef at New York, can be 
pleased at any of these continental hotels, as he loses sight of his favorite 
roast and steak. 

At the extensive cattle yards of Berlin, which are under control of an 
excellent administration, and perfectly arranged, it was impossible, for 
instance, on a well-supplied market day to find a single dozen corn-fed 
young steers that would make good enough beef for first-class custom in 
New York. The bulk of cattle offered for sale was made up of oxen 
that had been overworked they had horns bigger than themselves and 
the remainder were old cows and bulls. 

Of the bovine family, the branch most celebrated for the good quality 
of beef is the Durhams or Shorthorns. It is only fifty years ago that 
the first were imported to this country from England, and so well have 
they prospered and multiplied that the finest and best specimens of the 
race are now found in these United States. They are now freely exported, 
at large prices, to the mother-country, where they are highly prized for 
breeding purposes. There are farms in Kentucky, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, 
and even in Missouri and Kansas, that turn out annually from 300 to 1,000 
head of fatted, corn-fed cattle, from two to four years old, and weighing 
from 1,500 to 2,500 pounds per head. 

As to mutton, this country is already beginning to occupy a position 
second to none. We may probably not as yet surpass England in this 
respect, but we have learned a great deal on this subject during the past 
thirty years; hence the American breed of sheep has considerably 
improved. The quality and flavor of our mutton is improving to that 
extent that a long time cannot possibly elapse before the prejudice now 
existing in favor of the English article must give way to the honest 
acknowledgment that the American mutton, if not superior to, stands at 
least fully on a par with, the English rival. 

Our farmers and agriculturists have learned a great deal on this ques- 
tion. They now know that, as to early lambs, for instance, the ewes 



THE PLEASURES OF THE TABLE. 



should be strong, and kept in good condition, so that they can supply the 
lambs with plenty of milk. They are now kept in a warm barn where the 
cold winds do not touch them, and where the sun can shine on them. 
They commence feeding them by putting a little bran in the lamb's mouth, 
so that it can taste it, and the lambs commence eating from a box 
separate from the sheep. They generally feed them with cracked corn or 
meal, and sometimes oats and corn ground together, with plenty of milk 
from the ewes. If kept in good order and well fed, they will be ready 
for market, by the time they are six to eight weeks old. After the month 
of June, lambs come from New York State mostly from Dutchess County. 
They are turned out to graze on the hills, where some cracked corn and 
meal are put in the fields, so they can eat it at their pleasure. Many of 
the late sheep and lambs come from Canada. Two of the largest sheep 
ever sold in New York were raised by Mr. Vail, of Dutchess County, and 
sold by A. Luyster to Mr. L. Delmonico for the sum of $100. The 
two weighed, alive, 632 Ibs., and dressed, 420 Ibs. 

One of the leading questions that directly affects the American cuisine 
is the contest now progressing as to the transportation of animal food to 
the great Eastern markets. Heretofore live cattle were transported to, 
and slaughtered at, the places of consumption. This so-called home- 
slaughtering interest has within the past few years experienced great 
competition with the slaughterers of cattle in the far West, who have 
brought their meats to the Eastern market in refrigerator-cars. The 
great question now is: Which is the better way, and by which method are 
the public interests served the best, as well as the sanitary condition of 
this important article of food most improved ? 

There can be no doubt that, while this controversy lasts, the consumer 
has already been benefited, and the transportation of live cattle has already 
been greatly facilitated and improved. The quality of the meat does not 
depend upon the place where the animal is slaughtered, but it does depend 
upon the stafe of the animal's health when it is slaughtered. Let the 
cattle-cars be improved so that cattle can be transported without being 
knocked about and bruised, and let them be properly fed and watered 
while in transit; after making the long journey from the far West, let 
them be well rested and cooled off before slaughtering. 

The Western dressed-beef men will also have to be on their mettle in 
order to meet the exigencies of the times. Let them keep their wild 
prairie cattle and their scalawags out of the better markets, handle their 
beef carefully, keep it subjected to a uniform temperature of about 38* 
Fahrenheit, discard all artificial preservative means, and all opponents to 
their interests will be bereft of argument. 



THE TABLE. 



OUR MARKETS. 



OUR markets contain an abundant supply of poultry and game of an 
exceptionally fine quality. For superior and palatable chickens 
we are recommended to those raised about the creameries of New 
Jersey. The hand-fed geese and ducks of Rhode Island rival in flavor 
and delicacy the celebrated Caneton-de-Rouen, while the American tur- 
keys are famous the world over. To give any adequate idea of the quan- 
tity of game which comes from the vast feeding-grounds of this country, 
or to enumerate substantially every form in which, during the different 
seasons, game appears in market, would require too much space. 

No game is more highly prized or more eagerly sought after in Europe 
than our American canvas-back ducks, grouse and wild turkeys. It has 
become part of our history that during the late war twenty thousand 
turkeys were shipped by one firm in New York City to supply a Thanks- 
giving dinner to an army ; while at present so plentiful is the supply that 
but a few days would be required to secure double that number. 

Near Rhode Island, on one farm of about fifty acres, twenty thou- 
sand geese, and as many ducks, are fattened annually for market. In 
Vermont and other cold localities during December, when turkeys are 
full grown and fattest, hundreds of tons of them are dressed, frozen hard 
in boxes, and preserved in that condition for use in the spring and sum- 
mer months; when freshly killed, turkeys are tough and unpalatable. 
Unless well experienced, the purchaser would do better to leave the 
selection of poultry and game to some reliable dealer, rather than depend 
upon " signs," which are at times deceiving. 

Spring chickens appear in market about May ; those hatched in incu- 
bators come somewhat earlier. They are very small, weighing about a 
pound each, and improve in flavor and richness as they increase in size. 
Tender chickens may be had almost the whole year, but they are not 
plentiful during the spring months. 

Capons are good from December until April. 

Young turkeys are first killed in September ; they are full grown and 
fattest in December, and remain good until spring, when they are super- 
seded by frozen turkeys. 

Geese and ducks are first brought to market in June, and, if they have 
been properly fed, are a great delicacy. They may be had through the 
summer, autumn, and winter months. Geese are called "green" until 
they are three or four months old. 

Guinea-fowls are best in summer and autumn, when young and fat. 

Squabs are in market the whole year. 



OUR MARKETS. 



The laws for killing and selling game vary somewhat in the different 
States, and sometimes in the different counties of the same State. Refer- 
ence is made principally in regard to the New York City markets. So 
great are the facilities for forwarding quickly by rail and steamer, that 
supplies of game are easily obtained from long distances ; and birds killed 
in southern Texas, or other remote places, may be served perfectly fresh 
on New York tables a few days later. The flight of birds is greatly 
controlled by the weather. An early or late season, or a wet or dry one, 
or even a cold wave, may hasten or retard them, and make game plentiful 
or scarce, fat or poor ; but an abundant supply of all kinds of game in its 
best condition is generally to be had in the months it is in season, as 
follows : 

Ruffed grouse, commonly called partridges, are in season from Sep- 
tember i to February i. 

Pinnated grouse, commonly called prairie-chickens, from September 
I to February i. 

Quails, from November i to February i. 

Woodcock are in the market from August i to February i, and are 
fattest in October. 

English snipe appear in the spring, and again in the autumn, when they 
are in their best condition, and are to be had in smaller quantities during 
the winter. 

Yellow-legged snipe, robin or red-breasted snipe, dowicher and black- 
breasted or winter snipe, also common snipe, are abundant in the spring, 
and again from July through October, when they are best. 

Upland, grass, or gray plover are in market through the spring and 
summer months, and are fattest in August and September. 

Doe-birds are to be had a* about the same time. They are plover of a 
larger size, and are considered not inferior to any other. 

Golden plover, or frost-birds, are plentiful in the spring, and are in fine 
condition in September and October. 

Sora, or Virginia rail, are best in September and October. 

Reed-birds, or rice-birds, become very fat in August and September. 
When found among the reeds of New Jersey they are called reed-birds, 
and rice-birds when from the wild rice-fields of the South. 

Rabbits and hares are in season from November i to February i. 

Venison is in market from August i to January i only, and is good 
during that time. 

Antelope may be generally had through the autumn and winter 
months. 

Wild pigeons appear in the spring and autumn, but no longer in such 
immense numbers as formerly. It is only possible to obtain them for 
market when their " nestings" are near a railroad, which facilitates their 
quick shipment. The young birds (wild squabs), taken from the nest, 
make a most delicious broil. 

Wild ducks, swan, geese, and brant are in season from September r 
to May i. The choicest of these are: canvas-back, mallard, teal, red- 



THE TABLE. 



head, widgeon, wood, brant, cygnet or young swan, goose when young 
and fat. 

English pheasants, English hares, and Scotch grouse are to be found 
in the New York markets in excellent condition during the winter months. 

The wild mongrel goose, which appears in our markets about Christ- 
mas-time, is, like the canvas-back duck, considered as one of the greatest 
luxuries, and exclusively American. 

The far-famed canvas-back duck is also an exclusively North American 
species. Closely resembling in appearance and habits the red-head of 
America and the pochard of Europe, it is still quite distinct from and 
superior to both these species in the excellence of its flesh. It is found 
throughout North America, from the Arctic Ocean to Central America, on 
the interior waters and on both shores. Chesapeake Bay is the most 
noted ground for canvas-back ducks in the country, but they are espe- 
cially abundant in Southern California. They breed on the ponds, rivers, 
and lakes, from Oregon to the more extreme northern portions of the con- 
tinent. The canvas-back is without doubt the most sought after and 
widely known of all our ducks, and in localities where it can obtain the 
root of the Vallisneria spiralis (called by some tape-grass, and by others, 
incorrectly, wild celery), the food to which it owes the peculiarly delicate 
flavor for which it is so famous. As a highly prized delicacy, it stands 
without a rival. When, however, it is obliged to content itself with a diet 
chiefly of animal food, or is not properly handled in the kitchen, it becomes 
merely a very ordinary table bird. The Vallisneria is not found on the 
Pacific Coast, but in many parts of the interior, and especially in the 
Chesapeake Bay. The canvas-back being an excellent and strong diver, 
brings from the bottom the Vallisneria by the roots ; these it bites off and 
swallows, while the red-head, black-head, and other ducks feed on the refuse 
grass, or occasionally a root snatched from the canvas-back. At times 
the water is covered with grass thus pulled up. By the middle of Decem- 
ber the canvas-back becomes so fat as to have been known to burst open 
in the breast in falling on the water. In New Orleans it is called " canard 
cheval." The canvas-back is covered somewhat like the red-head, but 
there is no reason for the confusion which exists in the minds of so many 
people regarding the two species. A careful comparison of the following 
descriptions of the two birds will indicate well-marked differences by 
which they may always be distinguished. The cook of a Buffalo gentle- 
man, when asked if she knew the difference between a red-head and a 
canvas-back replied, "To be sure! one has the head of a fool!" (meaning 
the canvas-back). 



CANVAS-BACK. 



RED-HEAD. 



Feathers of the head short and Feathers of the head rather 
smooth. Male with head and neck long, giving it a puffy appearance, 
of deep chestnut color, the former Male with head and neck chest- 
sometimes quite blackish. Fore nut red. Fore parts of body, 
parts of body, wings and tail, black, wings and tail, black, under parts 



OUR MARKETS. 



under parts white ; back and sides 
whitish, waved with black, but 
the white predominates, and the 
black lines are faint and much 
broken up. Female everywhere 
duller in color than the male. 

Bill entirely greenish -black, 
longer than head, nearly as long 
as middle toe (without claw), nar- 
row, high at base, and nostrils 
medium. 

Iris red. 

The weight of a pair of good 
fat canvas-back ducks with feathers 
on will average six pounds. 



white ; back and sides whitish, 
waved with black, the dark waved 
lines unbroken. Female every- 
where duller in color than the 
male. 

Bill dull blue, with a black belt 
across the end, shorter than the 
head, shorter than the middle toe 
(without claw), broad, depressed ; 
nostrils within its basal half. Al- 
ways to be distinguished from 
other ducks by shape of the bill. 

Iris yellow. 

The weight of a pair of good 
fat red-head ducks with feathers 
on will average five pounds. 

The red-head duck is found in greater or less numbers throughout 
North America, on the Atlantic and Pacific coasts, breeding in high north- 
ern latitudes, and frequenting in winter the southern portions of the con- 
tinent as far as Mexico. The red-head is not common on the coasts of 
New England. During the winter months it abounds considerably al-ong 
the south shore of Long Island, and is extremely abundant from this 
point south, especially at Chesapeake Bay and Currituck. Its flesh is 
excellent and when it is enabled to feed on the well-known Vallisneria is 
almost fully equal in point of flavor to that of the canvas-back. The diet 
of the red-head is by preference vegetable, but in default of a sufficiency 
of food of this nature, they will, like other ducks, eat frogs, tadpoles, and 
various mollusks. In the West they feed largely on corn and wheat, 
which they glean from the fields, and on wild oats, the seed of the water- 
lily, and roots and leaves of other aquatic plants. 



THE TABLE. 



VARIETIES OF FISH TO BE FOUND IN 

THE MARKETS DURING THE 

DIFFERENT MONTHS. 



JANUARY. 

Live codfish \Gadus morrhua~\. Haddock \Melamogramus agle finus\. 
Cusk \Brosmius brosme\ ; this belongs to the cod family, and although 
very little known, is an excellent table fish. Hake \Phycis chuss\ ; this is 
another of the codfish family, but inferior to any of the other varieties. 
Halibut \Hypoglossus -vulgaris}. Small chicken halibut \Hypoglossus vul- 
garis}. Striped bass \Roccus lineatus}. Eels \_Arguilla vulgaris\. Lobsters 
\_Homarus Americanus\\ very scarce, and in poor condition. Fresh salmon 
\Oncorhynckus chouichd\ ; these salmon are caught in the Columbia River, 
Oregon, all the year round, and are shipped in refrigerator-cars, and 
received daily in the New York markets. Frozen salmon [Salmo salar\\ 
caught in the Restigouche River in July, and kept in freezers. Turbot 
\Platysomatichthys hippoglossoides\, coming from Newfoundland, are occa- 
sionally in market during this month. Frost-fish, sometimes called torn- 
cods \_Microgdus tomcod\. Frozen fresh mackerel [Scomber scombrus]. 
Frozen Spanish-mackerel [Scomber omarus], Pompano [Trachynotus caro- 
linus] ; a few occasionally in market, coming from Pensacola, Florida. 
Red-fish, or channel bass \Scioena ocellata], caught in Florida. Sheep's-head 
\Diplodus pobatocephahis\ from Florida. Grouper \Epinephelus moriq^, 
from Pensacola ; a very good fish for boiling, somewhat like the red- 
snapper, but the meat is of a finer grain. Red-snapper [Lutjanus Black- 
fordii\ has become a staple article in our markets during the winter. 
They weigh from two pounds upward, as much as twenty pounds each. 
It is good either boiled or baked, but most epicures prefer it baked. In 
selecting a fish, care should be taken not to buy one that weighs over eight 
pounds, as anything larger than that is apt to be tough and lacking in 
flavor. Shad [Clupea sopidisima], caught in the St. John's River, in Florida, 
are to be had nearly every day during this month. Frozen bluefish 
[Pomatomus saltatrix\, preserved by being kept in freezers since the pre- 
vious fall. Herring [Clup'ea harengus\ from Nova Scotia. Skate, or ray- 
fish [Plerroplatea maclura]. The demand for this fish increases every year. 
The American people begin to appreciate its many excellences. Probably 
the annual dinners of the Ichthyophagous Club, at which this fish is 
always served, have materially increased the popularity and demand for 
this fish. Rainbow trout [Salmo irrided]. These fish were first marketed 
during the winter of 1885 and 1886, and they are one of the notable exam- 



VARIETIES OF FISH, 



pies of fish-culture, as the following brief history will show. Six years 
ago Professor Spencer F. Baird, then Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries 
for the United States, received a lot of eggs of the rainbow trout from 
California. He presented five hundred of them to the South Side Club, 
who have one of the most complete fish-cultural establishments in this 
State. These eggs were hatched and the fish raised in the preserves of 
the Club, where they increased to such an extent that the Club decided to 
send their surplus to market, and they have become very popular, and 
sell readily at one dollar and twenty-five cents per pound. The open 
season for these trout is from April to September. Salmon-trout, frozen 
[Salvelimis namaycusJi\. Whitefish, frozen [Coregonus dupeiformis\. Pick- 
erel \Esox reticulatus\ weighing from half a pound to ten pounds each, 
are very good during the winter months. Wall-eyed pike [Sticostedium 
vitreuni\. Catfish {Ictalurtis punctatus]. Smelts [Osmerus mordax} are 
received from different parts of the East and North during this month. 
The choicest come from Maine and Massachusetts! Those coming from 
Canada are always frozen, and are inferior, and sold at a very low price. 
Green turtle. Diamond-back terrapin. Prawns, from South Carolina. 
Scallops. Oysters. The following are the best in this month : Blue 
Points, Shrewsbury s, East Rivers, and Mill Ponds. Hard crabs. Crab- 
meat, fresh picked. Whitebait. Finnan haddie. Smoked salmon. 
Smoked halibut. Best boneless dried codfish. 

FEBRUARY. 

Live codfish. Haddock. Halibut. Striped bass. Eels. Live lob- 
sters. Fresh salmon. Frost-fish. Fresh Spanish-mackerel are found 
occasionally in market, coming from Pensacola, Florida. Pompano. 
Sheep's-head. Red-fish, or channel bass. Grouper. Red-snapper. White 
perch [Rocctis Americanus}, from Long Island ; one of the best pan-fish 
that is found in market. Smelts, green, from Maine, Massachusetts, and 
Rhode Island, and frozen smelts from Canada. During the latter part of 
the month very choice smelts are received from Long Island. These fish 
are large, and are considered the best of all varieties of smelts received. 
Shad. During the latter part of the month they begin to come from North 
Carolina. These fish are oftentimes large, weighing six pounds each, and 
in flavor are equal to those taken in the Connecticut River. Herring. 
Skate, or ray-fish. Salmon-trout. Whitefish. Yellow perch [Perca Amer- 
icana]. Pickerel. Wall-eyed pike. Catfish. Green turtle. Terrapin. 
Prawns. Scallops. Oysters. Codfish tongues. Soft shell crabs during 
this month are in excellent condition, and are considered one of the most 
seasonable shell fish in market at this time. Hard crabs. Whitebait. 
Crab-meat, fresh picked. Finnan haddie. Smoked salmon. Boneless 
dried codfish. Smoked halibut. 

MARCH. 

Live codfish. Haddock. Halibut. Striped bass. Chicken Halibut. 
Eels. Live lobsters. Salmon, from the Columbia River. During the 



IO THE TABLE. 



latter part of the month a few fish are received from Nova Scotia, weigh- 
ing about eight pounds each, and are called Kennebec salmon by the 
tradesmen, although no salmon are caught either in the Penobscot or 
Kennebec rivers, Maine, until about the ist of May. Large flounders 
[Pseudopleuronectes Americanus], suitable for making fillet of sole. Spanish- 
mackerel. Pompano. Sheep's-head. Red-snapper. Grouper. Shad are 
abundant this month from North Carolina, and about the 25th or 3Oth of 
March they make their first appearance in the North or Hudson River. 
Herring. Skate, or ray-fish. Sturgeon \Acipencer sturio\. Salmon-trout. 
Whitefish. Yellow perch. Pickerel. C\sco[Coregonus artedi]. Catfish. Wall- 
eyed pike. Green turtle. Terrapin. With the month of March closes the 
terrapin season, as after the ist of April it seems to be univerally con- 
ceded that the weather is too warm, and terrapin are not relished, nor 
does the palate crave them. Soft shell clams are still excellent this month. 
Prawns. Scallops. Oysters. Those known as East Rivers, caught on 
the north shore of Long Island, are considered best in this month. Crab- 
meat, fresh picked. Smoked haddock. Smoked salmon. Smoked halibut. 
Smoked mackerel. 

APRIL. 

Live codfish. Haddock. Halibut. Striped bass. Chicken halibut. 
Eels. Live lobsters. Tomcods. Salmon, fresh from the Columbia River. 
Salmon, fresh from Nova Scotia. Flounders. White perch. Fresh mack- 
erel. About the first part of April mackerel make their appearance on 
our coast, oftentimes in enormous numbers, and are sold in the markets 
at prices so low as to make them the cheapest food of the season. Span- 
ish-mackerel and pompano are occasionally in the market from Pensacola, 
Florida. Kingfish [Mentidrrus nebulosus\ ; a few come into market from 
North Carolina. Sheep's-head, from North Carolina. Smelts ; with the 
close of this month the fish goes out of season. Red-snapper are to be 
found in market up to the isth of April. Sea bass [Serranus atrarius] ; 
a few occasionally come into market from Charleston, S. C. Shad increase 
in abundance from the North and Hudson rivers. Skate, or ray-fish. 
Bluefish \Pomatomus saltatrix] ; a few make their appearance, caught on 
the Florida coast. Brook-trout [Salvelinus fontinalis]. The open season 
for this fish commences April i. Salmon-trout. Whitefish. Pickerel. 
Cisco. Wall-eyed pike. Catfish. Green turtle. Prawns. Crayfish [As- 
tacus fluviatilus~\ are found during this month in the markets ; they are 
caught in the Potomac River. Scallops ; with the close of this month 
they are out of season. Oysters are generally better during the month of 
April than at any other time of the year, but, according to custom, with 
the close of this month the oyster season ends. Fresh frogs' legs during 
the latter part of this month are taken, and begin to make their appear- 
ance in market at prices of about sixty to seventy-five cents per pound. 
Codfish tongues. Hard crabs. Crab-meat. Whitebait. Smoked had- 
dock. Smoked salmon. Smoked halibut. 



VARIETIES OF FISH. \ \ 



MAY. 

Codfish during this month is apt to be poor, as no live fish are 
brought to the New York markets. It is mostly fish caught off Nan- 
tucket and repacked in Boston, and from there shipped to New York. 
Haddock ; the same applies to this fish as to the cod. Halibut is 
in excellent condition this month, both large fish for steaks, and small 
chicken halibut for dinner fish. Striped bass. Eels. Lobsters. Black- 
fish \_Teutogo onitis]. Salmon from Restigouche make their appear- 
ance about the 2Oth of May. Oregon salmon continue to come during 
this month, although not in as good order as in previous months. 
Large flounders for fillet of sole are excellent this month. Fresh mack- 
erel. Spanish-mackerel and pompano from Pensacola, Florida. A few 
come to market from North Carolina during this month. Butter-fish 
[Stromateus triacanthus~\ make their appearance in the market this month. 
Weakfish [Cyonosdon regale} plenty and cheap. Kingfish from Long 
Island make their appearance during this month in the markets, and are 
an excellent fish, growing better each month till October, when they go 
out of season. Sheep's-head ; a few make their appearace from Long 
Island. Porgies \Stenotomtts chrysops~\, from Long Island. Sea bass during 
this month are abundant from Narragansett Bay. Shad from Connecticut 
is probably at its best this month. There is no doubt that shad from 
this river possesses a flavor superior to all others. Shad from the North 
River begin to get soft and are not in good condition. Bluefish; there are a 
few weighing one and a half to two pounds each in market. Squid [Loligo 
pealcci\ This is an article of food that Spaniards and Italians think a great 
deal of, but it is very little used by American people as yet. It has been 
introduced to the American public by the dinners of the Ichthyophagous 
Club, which is composed of a few gentlemen connected with the leading 
newspapers, and some eminent scientific men, whose object is to cultivate 
a taste and demand for those varieties of fish which are not generally sup- 
posed to be good edible food. Brook-trout under the existing law come 
into market on April I. Probably the finest flavored trout found on 
this continent are the wild brook-trout taken in the streams of Long 
Island. Cultivated brook-trout that are raised in ponds and preserves 
depend very much upon the character of their food as to what the flavor 
will be. Trout that are fed entirely upon chopped liver are usually flat 
and insipid to the taste. But trout that are fed upon small minnows or 
other fish-food, such as clams, larvae of insects, and small fish of any 
kind, are always more delicate in flavor. Salmon-trout and whitefish ; a 
few are found in market this month, but during warm weather it is very 
difficult to obtain them in New York City markets in prime condition. 
Carp {Cyprinus carpia}. These fish are now making their appearance in 
our markets in considerable quantities, having been introduced into this 
country through the instrumentality of Professor Spencer F. Baird, late 
United States Fish and Fisheries Commissioner, some eight years ago. 



12 THE TABLE. 



They have been distributed in nearly every State of the Union, and in the 
Southern States have grown larger, and are found in better condition, than 
they are in Germany, where the parent fish came from. The market is 
principally supplied now with fish caught in the Potomac River, weighing 
from two to fifteen pounds each, and are selling at present for twenty-five 
cents a pound ; but in the course of a few years there is no doubt that 
these fish will be sold for from ten to twelve cents a pound. Green turtle. 
Frogs' legs. Crayfish during this month come from Wisconsin. They 
are of very fine flavor, and are the best that are found in this country. 
Prawns from South Carolina. Crab-meat, fresh picked. Soft crabs grow 
more abundant during this month, and are in excellent condition. A very 
choice smoked fish is in season this month, called the roe herring, and by 
some of the grocers under various names, such as bloaters, Burlington 
herring, etc. 

JUNE. 

Codfish may be had, but not in good condition. Haddock may be had, 
but not in good condition. Halibut. Striped Bass. Eels. Lobsters. 
Fresh salmon from the Kennebec and Penobscot rivers, Maine, and from 
the Restigouche and other rivers in Canada, are very abundant this 
month, and are to be had at the lowest price during the season, selling 
oftentimes as low as fifteen cents per pound by the whole fish. Large 
flounders for fillet of sole. Blackfish. Fresh mackerel. Pompano. Span- 
ish-mackerel. Weakfish. Butter-fish. Kingfish. Sheep's-head. Porgies. 
Sea bass. Sturgeon. Shad from the Connecticut River are still in good 
condition, but with the close of this month go out of season. Bluefish are 
larger, sometimes weighing four to six pounds each, and are improving in 
quality. Carp. Skate, or ray-fish. Black bass \Micr -opterus dolomiei\ are 
in season from the ist of June until the ist of January. This is a very 
choice table fish; probably one of the best of the fresh water fishes. 
Crayfish. Frogs' legs. Soft crabs. Crab-meat. Whitebait. 

JULY. 

Cod. Haddock. Halibut. Striped bass. Eels. Lobsters. Kennebec 
salmon. Pompano. Restigouche salmon. Large flounders for fillet of 
sole. Blackfish. Fresh mackerel. Spanish-mackerel. Butter-fish; this 
is a small, sweet pan-fish. Weakfish. Kingfish. Sheep's-head. Porgies. 
Sea bass. Bluefish. Moonfish \_Choetodipterus faber}. This fish is some- 
what similar in appearance to the sheep's-head, and is a very fine boiling or 
baking fish. Squid. Skate. Brook-trout. Black bass. Green turtle. 
Crayfish. Prawns. Frogs' legs. Soft crabs. Whitebait. 

AUGUST. 

Cod. Haddock. Halibut. Striped bass. Eels. Lobsters. Resti- 
gouche salmon. Kennebec salmon. Large flounders for fillet of sole. 
Fresh mackerel. Spanish-mackerel. Bonito \Sarda mediterraned\. This 
fish is sometimes sold through the country as Spanish-mackerel, but it is 



VARIETIES OF FISH. 



a very inferior fish as compared with the Spanish-mackerel. Crevalle 
\Caranx hippos]. This fish is sometimes sold as pompano, but is a very 
inferior fish, as the pompano is one of the choicest fishes that we have in 
market. Butter-fish. Tilefish \_Lopholatilus chamaelconticeps]. This fish 
was first discovered in our waters by the United States Fish Commission 
in 1880. It is very brilliant in color, but the meat is very coarse-flaked, 
and somewhat resembling the haddock in appearance and flavor. Lafa- 
yette [Liostomus xanthurus\ a small fish weighing about a quarter of a 
pound each, and a very desirable pan-fish. Sea-robins \Prionotus palmipes\. 
This fish is found very plentifully at this season of the year in the waters 
of Long Island, and was first introduced as a table fish by the Ichthyo- 
phagous Club some five years ago. It is a very fair pan-fish. Sea bass. 
Kingfish. Sheep's-head. Porgies. Bluefish. Moonfish. Squid. Skate. 
Brook-trout. Black bass. Catfish. Green turtle. Crayfish. Prawns. 
Frogs' legs. Soft crabs. White-bait. 

SEPTEMBER. 

Codfish. Haddock. Halibut. Striped bass. Lobsters. Eels. Sal- 
mon from Nova Scotia. During this mcnth the salmon advance very much 
in price, and with the close of the month fresh salmon caught on the 
Atlantic coast go out of season. Large flounders for fillet of sole. Black- 
fish. Fresh mackerel. Spanish-mackerel. During this month the Spanish- 
mackerel are in their best condition, being fat and of delicate flavor. Cero 
\Scomberom0rus caballa\. A large fish, weighing from six to twenty pounds 
each, resembling the Spanish-mackerel in appearance, but not so fine 
flavored. Crevalle \Caranx hippos]. Pompano. Butter-fish. Tilefish. 
Weakfish. Lafayette. Porgies. Squid. Smelts make their appearance 
for the first time in the season during this month. Red-snapper are to be 
found in market this month, the first of the season. Grouper ; a fish 
somewhat resembling the red-snapper in form, but of a darker red color, 
and similar in flavor to the red-snapper, and by a great many people 
thought to be superior to the red-snapper. Sea bass. Skate. Bluefish 
are in better condition, and in their prime during this month. Salmon- 
trout. Pickerel. Whitefish. Catfish. Wall-eyed pike. Carp. Green 
turtle. Crayfish. Prawns. Frogs' legs. Scallops begin to come into market 
at this time, but are not quite so good as they are a month later. Hard 
crabs. Whitebait. Soft crabs are in better condition and of better flavor 
during this month than at any other time of the year. Moonfish. Butter- 
fish. Bonito, Sea-robins. 

OCTOBER. 

Codfish ; during the latter part of this month codfish are brought alive 
to the market. Haddock. Halibut. Striped bass. Eels. Lobsters. 
Blackfish. Columbia River salmon commence to come into market at this 
time. These salmon are what are known as the steel-head variety \Salmo 
gardneri]. They are not as fine flavored nor as much esteemed as those 
that are called chinooks, which come earlier in the season. Large 



14 THE TABLE. 



flounders for fillet of sole. Fresh mackerel. Cero. Spanish-mackerel. 
Pompano. Weakfish. Kingfish. Sheep's-head. Grouper. White Perch. 
Smelts. Red-snapper. Sea bass. Bluefish. Black bass. Salmon-trout. 
Whitefish. Yellow perch. Pickerel. Cisco. Wall-eyed pike. Green 
turtle. Carp. Terrapin are caught during every month in the year, but 
are not considered good for the table until the weather is cold, and with 
the month of October are first used on the table. Crayfish. Prawns. 
Frogs' legs. Hard crabs. Soft crabs are to be found in market usually 
up to the loth of October. White-bait. Scallops. Redfish, or spotted 
bass. This is a Southern fish, and is somewhat similar in flavor to the 
striped bass, but not quite so good. 

NOVEMBER. 

Live cod. Haddock. Halibut. Striped bass. Eels. Lobsters. Sal- 
mon. Cusk. Blackfish. Fresh mackerel. Redfish, or spotted bass. 
Grouper. White perch. Smelts. Red-snapper. Skate. Black bass. 
Salmon-trout. Whitefish. Yellow Perch. Pickerel. Cisco. Shad. For 
the past two or three years, during the month of November, shad have 
been taken off the coast of Massachusetts in the nets along with the mack- 
erel. These shad are large, weighing five pounds each, and are very fat 
and of excellent flavor. Bluefish. This month usually closes the bluefish 
season, but during the months of December, January, and February they 
are found in market, but always are fish that have been preserved by 
freezing. Masquallonge \Esox nobilier}. This fish weighs from four to 
twenty pounds each, and is of the pickerel family, and considered the 
most superior in flavor to all the pickerels. Wall-eyed pike. Catfish. 
Green turtle. Terrapin. Crayfish. Prawns. Scallops. Frogs' legs. 
Hard crabs. Whitebait. 

DECEMBER. 

Live cod. Haddock. Halibut. Striped bass. Eels. Lobsters. Co- 
lumbia River salmon. Large flounders for fillet of sole. Turbo't. These 
fish are caught in extreme Northern waters. They are somewhat similar 
in flavor to the chicken halibut, but are black upon both sides. They are 
of a very peculiar flavor. Tomcods, or frost-fish. A small fish weighing 
about one-fourth of a pound each ; very sweet, and a desirable pan-fish. 
Cusk. Blackfish. Grouper. Smelts. Mullet \_Mugil albula], A Southern 
fish, sweet and oily, and a good pan-fish. Red-snapper. Skate. Shad are 
received during this month from St. John's River, Florida. Black bass. 
Salmon - trout. Whitefish. Yellow perch. Pickerel. Masquallonge. 
Cisco. Wall-eyed pike. Green turtle. Terrapin. Crayfish. Frogs' legs. 
Prawns. Scallops. Hard crabs. Soft crabs. This is a different variety 
of crab than is found in the summer ; it is very much smaller, and of a 
brown color ; not equal in flavor to the soft crab found during the 
summer. 



VEGETABLES. 



VEGETABLES. 



VEGETABLES are grown to such an extent in the South, and also in 
hot-houses in the North, that we may enjoy, even in the coldest 
winter weather, nearly every variety. 

The growing of vegetables in the South for Northern markets received 
its impetus through an incident which happened in a then well-known 
resort in New York. A party of gentlemen, among them a steward on 
one of the Southern steamers, were seated one day in January con- 
versing, when the steward, who was in the habit of bringing mint with him 
for this particular resort, ordered a mint-julep; this order, at that time of 
the year, created a little surprise, especially to one of the party, who was 
a dealer in vegetables. However, the matter was explained, and the 
dealer arranged with the steward to bring him some mint, together with 
whatever vegetables he could get, on each of his Northern trips. The 
demand for them increased so fast that a great many growers commenced 
to raise vegetables, so that the business has grown to vast proportions. 

The following information may be useful to those who wish to know 
at what season of the year certain vegetables may be had, and also where 
they may be had in their prime. 

Asparagus. The consumption of asparagus has grown so much dur- 
ing the past few years, partly, perhaps, through the recommendation of 
physicians, that it might be well here to give an idea as to where and 
when it is grown. It first makes its appearance in market from the 
middle of February until the middle of March, according to the condition 
of the weather. 

Occasionally it may be had during the winter from hot-houses, but of 
inferior quality. The first of out-door growth comes from Charleston, 
S. C., where there are a number of very large beds, and where it is grown 
very successfully, both as to quality and quantity. It is shipped from 
there to Baltimore, Washington, Philadelphia, and New York, arriving at 
the latter place by express in a little less than forty-eight hours after 
cutting. Although North Carolina is growing more every year, the next 
location where it is raised in quantities for market is Norfolk, Va., the quality 
being of the best. We now reach our own vicinity Oyster Bay and New 
Jersey. The former place has long had the reputation of raising the finest 
asparagus, but as a great many of their beds are getting old, and not 
receiving the proper attention, they are fast losing their prestige to 
Jersey, where they are growing more and more every year, and of the 
very finest quality. Asparagus may be had at its best from the ist of 
May, until the ist of June; after this time it commences to run out until 
July first, when cutting is stopped. The demand has been so great for 



1 6 THE TABLE. 



the past few years that, although more and more is raised every year, the 
price advances instead of getting less, and for the large " Colossal " or 
" Delmonico " asparagus immense prices are paid. 

French artichokes may be had all the year round; the quality and 
size depend on the condition of the weather during their growth. Most 
of the supply is from France, but occasionally from California and the 
South. 

Jerusalem artichokes appear from the ist of October until June; they 
are always good. 

String beans can be had from the middle of February until December; 
they are in their prime during the spring and fall months. Occasionally 
we receive them in December and January from Havana, but they are not 
first-class. 

Lima beans, which are seldom shipped from the South, can be had 
from August until frost sets in; they are always good. 

Beets all the year round; best in spring'and summer. 

Cabbage all the year round; always good. The first new cabbage 
comes from Florida in March. During the winter large quantities of 
cabbages are imported from Denmark. 

Carrots all the year; the small young ones appearing in the spring. 

Chives can be had all the year round. 

Cucumbers all the year round. In the winter we get them from the 
hot-houses around Boston; they are of the very finest quality, although 
rather expensive. 

Cauliflower all the year round; we have them in January, February, 
and March from England and France, and in April and May from the hot- 
houses on Long Island. They are of fine quality at all seasons except 
during summer. 

Celery may be had in every month but May and June, but is best 
during the cold weather. It is being extensively raised in Kalamazoo, 
Mich., for the past three or four years; and as they raise it much earlier 
than we, and of good quality, it will not be long before we have it all 
the year round. 

Chervil may be had all the year round, but is usually poor during 
warm weather. 

Chicory we have from August until March; best during fall and winter 
months; occasionally during February and March; a fine quality comes 
from France. 

Corn or winter salad (called by the French doucette, and by the Germans 
fetticux) from September until warm weather sets in. It is purely, as its 
name indicates, a winter salad, as it never grows in the summer. 

Cress all the year round; best in the spring. 

Dandelion from January i to June. 

Escarolle salad from August until March. 

Egg-plant all the year round ; scarce during winter. 

Garlic all the year round ; in large quantities for the past two or three 
years during May, June, and July, from New Orleans. 



VEGETABLES. \ 7 



Herbs, such as thyme, sage, sweet basil, borage, dill, lavender, 
sweet-fennel, sweet-marjoram, rosemary, summer-savory, tansy, etc., 
may be had green in the summer and fall, and dry during the balance 
of the year. 

Kohl-rabi from May until November. 

Knot celery from September until May. 

Leeks all the year round. 

Lettuce can be had all the year round. In the winter it comes from 
the hot-houses of Boston, Providence, Long Island, and Jersey, but princi- 
pally from Providence, as that city for the past few years has made a 
business of growing lettuce for the New York market. It is best in the 
fall and spring. It is almost impossible to grow good lettuce in the 
summer, for, should it head at all, the warm weather would rot it. 

Mint can be had nearly all the year round; scarce during December 
and January. 

Mushrooms can be had all the year round; they are raised principally 
in cellars and hot-houses on Long Island, and the demand for them 
increases yearly. The people are gradually getting over the fear they 
once had of the poisonous toad-stools, of which, by the way, there is no 
danger now, as the mushrooms are carefully picked and sent to market 
by men who understand the business They are scarce during the very 
warm weather. 

Oyster-plant can be had from September until June. 

Okra appears all the year round; in the winter and spring it comes 
from Havana. 

Parsley all the year round. 

Onions may be had all the year round. 

Green peppers all the year round. In winter we get them from 
Havana. 

Potatoes all the year round. There need be but little fear of a potato- 
famine. During the past few years, when our own crop has been light, 
large quantities were imported from England, Ireland, Scotland, and 
Germany. The first new potatoes come from Bermuda about April i. 

Sweet potatoes from August until June. 

Peas from March until November. 

Parsnips from September until June. 

Pumpkins from September until February. 

Romaine salad can be had in the spring and fall. 

Radishes all the year round; they are very scarce in hot weather. 

Rhubarb from February until July. 

Brussels-sprouts from October until April. We import the very 
finest from France during March and April, but our growers are improv- 
ing in raising them from year to year, and we hope before long to rival the 
French. 

Kale-sprouts from November until June. 

Shallots all the year round. They are green in spring and summer 
and can be had dry during winter. 
2 



1 8 THE TABLE. 



Spinach all the year round; it is covered up in the early winter to 
keep it from freezing, but occasionally during extreme cold weather the 
cold reaches it, when it is impossible to cut it, which makes it scarce and 
high in the markets. 

Sorrel can be had all the year round; it is raised mostly by French 
gardeners. 

White and yellow summer-squash from April until October. 

Marrow-squash all the year round, except May and part of June; 
they are used quite generally to make pies instead of pumpkins. 

Tomatoes can be had all the year round, except December and part 
of January. The first new ones come from Key West; they are of 
excellent quality. 

White and ruta-baga turnips can be had all the year round. 

Estragon appears from March until December. 



WATER-MELONS AND MUSK-MELONS. 



WATER-MELONS first make their appearance in market about the 
first of July, and can be had until the middle of October. Un- 
like the musk-melon, they are of a rather hardy nature, and 
after the melon has grown on the vine, the changes in temperature, or rain, 
have little effect on them. The first in market come from Florida, and as 
the season advances we get them from further North, until New Jersey is 
reached. More melons are raised in Georgia than in any other State, and of 
far better quality. The best variety to be relied on, as to quality, is known 
as the " Gem." 

Musk-melons, although raised in nearly all parts of the country where 
the climate will admit, are seldom shipped to New York from any distance 
further than North Carolina, as a musk-melon, in order to be of good fla- 
vor, must be ripened, or nearly so, on the vine. When ripe they are 
so easily cracked or mashed that they would not stand transportation. 
For the past two or three years, a few, of a rather hard-rind variety, but 
of excellent flavor, have been shipped from New Orleans, but with only 
partial success, as the cost of transportation and the loss are so great that 
it hardly pays. We often hear the remark, " I have not eaten a good 
melon this season." This can be easily explained. 

A melon is of a very sensitive nature, and the delicious flavor is destroyed 
by rain or cold weather. A melon-patch from which we get finely flavored 
melons to-day, may be ruined (as to flavor) for a few days, by a heavy 
rain-storm ; for the melon absorbs water like a sponge. When we have 
hot nights and no rain, we have perfect melons. Invariably, it is during 
this kind of weather that they are most appreciated. Melons first appear 
about the middle of July, and last until cold weather. 



HOW TO SET A TABLE. 



HOW TO SET A TABLE. 



TO set a table seems, perhaps, very easy, but to set it properly and 
tastily is not such an easy matter. The advice herewith given may 
prove advantageous to many. 

Place the table in the centre of the dining-room, under the chandelier, 
and see to it that it is perfectly steady ; that is to say, that there is no 





G 



A Plates. 

B Flowers: 

C Sherry. 

D Sauterne. 

E Fruits. 

F Cakes. 

G Celery. 

H Radishes. 

I Black and Red Pepper. 

K Salt Cellars. 



i Green Glass for Sauterne. 

2 Glass for Sherry. 

3 Red Glass for Rhine Wine. 

4 Glass for Champagne. 

5 Glass for Latour. 

6 Glass for Chambertin. 

7 Glass for Water. 



danger of its being shaken while the dinner is in progress. Should it not 
rest firmly, perhaps an old relic, in the shape of a Bland Dollar, could be 
made serviceable by placing it under one of the feet. See to it that 
-there is plenty of space between each cover ; it is annoying to come in 
contact with every move of your neighbor. 

A table for six persons should be six feet long. Take a woolen cloth 
.and put it over the table, and then place a linen cloth on top of it ; this 
will deaden the noise of plates and glasses. 

Flowers should never be absent from the table when you have guests ; 
they can be procured at all seasons. A large basket or bouquet should be 
placed in the centre of the table ; a large bouquet on the right side for 
each lady, and a small boutonntire for each gentleman, also on the right 
side of the cover. 



2O THE TABLE. 



On each side of the centre-piece place a fruit-stand, nicely arranged 
with the choicest fruits of the season. Next to this place a compotier with 
assorted cakes. Place celery, olives, or radishes symmetrically in the 
space that is left between the centre and the covers. Fish-knives, soup- 
spoons, and oyster-forks must be placed on the right side of the plate, 
and the fork on the left side. If desired, place fancy pieces on the table, 
(pieces months}; but as the foregoing items pertain only to a dinner for six 
persons it would crowd out much available space. The diagram on the 
preceding page will illustrate the arrangement of the glasses on the table. 

Napkins can be arranged in various styles and figures ; into flowers or 
any other desired form. The latest and most fashionable way is to arrange 
them folded plainly, so as to show the monogram of the family. A small 
salt-cellar should be placed at each cover, to avoid asking the servant for it. 

Menus, either printed or written, should be placed at each cover. It 
is not a breach of etiquette to refuse a course you do not desire ; by know- 
ing what is coming, you can with propriety refuse a course, and take the 
next one. 

About ten minutes before commencing dinner, fill the decanters with 
Sauterne and with sherry, and place the same on the table, as in diagram, 
marked C and D. 



HOW TO SERVE MEALS. 



NEARLY every family of means is in the habit of giving a few dinners 
to its friends during the year. As a matter of course, the mem- 
bers of the family are, in return, invited to " dine out." 

If you invite your friends to a dinner, you should not wish them to 
go away dissatisfied. After a varied experience of many years, both in 
this country and in Europe, the author feels that no apologies are neces- 
sary if he endeavors to enlighten our epicures and dinner-givers as to how 
to arrange and serve a fine dinner, from commencement to close, after the 
manner of the French. 

It should not be forgotten that much depends upon the appearance of 
the table, and the manner of serving the courses. In fact, more success 
can be attained by studied attention to the room, the table, and the serv- 
ing of the courses, than in the preparation of costly viands. 

On entering a dining-room, the first object which strikes the eye is the 
table. If the table is void of flowers, and other side decorations, includ- 
ing olives, radishes, and celery, tastefully arranged napkins and wine- 
glasses, an impression is given of a boarding-house table. On the contrary, 
when you see a beautifully decorated and artistically arranged table, the 
heart is immediately gladdened. 

A proper regard should be given to the comfort of the guests as 
regards temperature. Have the room neither too cold nor too warm; the 



HOW TO SERVE MEALS. 21 

temperature should never exceed sixty degrees. The dining-room should 
be well aired before dinner commences. Great care should be taken that 
the dinner be served very hot. Noises with plates and glasses should 
be avoided. 

There is as much system in serving a fine dinner as there is in running 
a railroad, or in any other business. French dinners are generally served 
in three main courses, viz., Releves, Entries, and Rotis ; all the rest are 
considered side courses. It depends entirely on the taste of the host as 
to how many main courses he desires served. The author would suggest 
two relevJs, three entries, and one or two rotis; this could be made an 
elaborate dinner. 

Naturally, what you shall serve will depend entirely on what there is 
in market at the season. For instance, you cannot serve brook-trout 
in January, or canvas-back duck during the months of June, July, August, 
or September. However, the very best in the market should invariably 
be selected. 

Care should be taken to have the wines at the right temperature. 
Sherry, Sauterne, Chablis, and Rhine wines should always be served cold. 
Champagne should be served very cold, almost at the freezing-point. 
Bordeaux and Burgundy should be kept twelve hours before dinner in a 
room at a temperature of seventy degrees. Servants. should be instructed 
not to fill the glasses more than three-fourths full; for guests are in dan- 
ger of soiling their dresses, and, again, it is not considered good form. 

The following is a fair menu for a New Year's dinner, with the 
necessary instructions how to serve it: 

Blue Point Oysters, 298. Haut Sauterne. 

SOUPS. 

Cream of Asparagus, 70. 
Consomme" Royale, 107. Amontillado. 

HORS D'CEUVRE. 

Radishes, 292. Olives. 

Timbales a 1'Ecossaise, 261. 

RELEVES. 

Bass a la Regence, 305. 
Potatoes a la Windsor, 1008. Rauenthaler-Berg. 

Fillet of Beef, larded a la Parisienne, 514. 
Saddle of Mutton, currant jelly, 666. Pommery Sec. 

ENTREES. 

Sweetbreads, larded a la Colbert, 617. 
Terrapin a la Maryland, 397. Chateau Latour. 

SORBET. 

Kirfich Punch, 1305. 

R<3TIS. 

Canvas-back Ducks, 874. 
Celery, Mayonnaise Salad, 1042. Chambertin. 

ENTREMETS. 

Artichoke Bottoms, 897. French Peas, 977. 

String Beans, 948. 

SWEET ENTREMETS. 

Plum Pudding a 1'Anglaise, 1163. 

ICES. 

Vanilla, 1271. Pistache, 1275. 

Fruit. Cakes. 

Coffee, 1349. 

Cordials. 



22 THE TABLE. 



To begin with the oysters or clams: place some finely chopped ice on 
each soup-plate, with a small fancy napkin on top. Arrange the oysters 
or clams nicely on top of each plate, with a piece of lemon, and serve. 
With this course serve also Haut Sauterne. It is understood that the 
oysters or clams are to be served after all the guests are seated. It should 
be made a rule never to remove any plates while some of the guests are 
still eating. When all have finished, remove the oyster-plates and leave 
dinner-plates in their stead; then serve the soup. The servant is expected 
to present a plate of each kind to each guest, and ask which is preferred. 
Serve sherry with the soup. Always serve the plates on the right side, 
and remove on the left. Serve timbales. First put a spoonful of sauce 
on each plate, and then the timbale; at the same time you are serving the 
timbale, remove the cold plates and serve the fish. Put the fish on the 
plates, then the sauce, with a few potatoes on the same plate. Serve 
Rauenthaler-Berg. Remove the plates and serve fillet of beef, which 
should be cut in small, even slices. Put the sauce on the plate, and then 
the fillet. Place the artichokes on the same plate. Serve Pommery Sec 
with this and with the other course. Remove the plates and serve saddle 
of mutton. Cut the loin of the saddle lengthwise, and then crosswise, 
and serve with a little gravy and a spoonful of string-beans on the same 
plate. When this course is finished, serve the sweetbreads. Put the 
sauce first on the plate, as with the fillet, with a spoonful of peas. With 
this serve Chateau Latour. The next course, terrapin, should be served 
in a very hot tureen. Before serving, add a little fine sherry; mix well, 
and give each guest a small portion. Serve more Chateau Latour with 
this course. 

After this comes sorbet. This can be served in glasses or in shells; 
for instance, take six lemons or six small oranges, cut off the tops, take 
the soft parts out of them, and in them place the sorbet. Arrange them 
on cold dessert-plates, decorated with small fancy napkins or fancy paper. 
While the guests are enjoying the sorbet, remove sherry, Sauterne, and 
Hock glasses, no matter if empty or full. (Replace knives and forks 
before serving the sorbet.) 

Now come canvas-back ducks. Before serving, place them for a 
moment before the host, so that all the guests can see them. Cut off only 
the breasts, and serve with a little of the gravy and a small piece of fried 
hominy, on very hot plates; then pass around the currant jelly. You can 
serve a whole breast or a half one; however, during a hearty dinner, a 
half one is preferable; this is entirely at the disposition of the host. Serve 
celery salad with mayonnaise dressing on separate dessert-plates, with 
forks, and then serve Chambertin. 

When this course is finished, remove all side dishes, casters, and salt 
and pepper cruets, and leave nothing on the table but flowers, fruits, and 
cakes. Clean the table neatly with a brush or napkin, and then place 
dessert spoons and forks at each cover. Serve plum pudding the same as 
omelette au rum. Pour the rum over the pudding, spread powdered 
sugar on top, and, with a spoon, keep pouring the burning liquid over it 



HOW TO SERVE MEALS. 23 

until it ceases to burn. Then cut in slices and serve, putting some of the 
liquid on each plate. 

Vanilla and pistache ice-cream should be served on cold dessert-plates 
with fancy paper underneath, and with dessert spoons and forks. Serve 
the cakes with the ice-cream. 

When this course is finished, serve to each guest a finger-bowl, with a 
thin slice of lemon in the water. Small cups for coffee should be passed 
at the same time. Fruits, nuts, and raisins come next. It is customary 
with some old American families to introduce at this course a bottle of 
very old Madeira wine; but this is certainly not necessary. 

Now comes the last, the coffee, which must be served fresh and very 
hot, for the preparation of which the author refers you to page 381. At 
the same time serve cordials, and the dinner will be completed. 



MENUS FOR EVERY DAY IN THE YEAR. 



EXPLANATORY NOTE. 

While these menus are Dimple and complete, it is not supposed that they can always be 
carried out in detail. They will, however, furnish suggestions to house-keepers who are daily 
perplexed with the question, "What shall we have for breakfast, luncheon, and dinner?" The 
number placed after each dish refers to the recipe showing how the dish is prepared. The 
menus are arranged so as to be used foi any year. New Year's, 1890, will begin on a Wednes- 
day instead of a Tuesday, as here printed; in that' case, use the New Year's menu and then turn 
to the first Thursday in January and proceed in regular order. Should you come out uneven 
at the end of the month, through skipping some days at the first, turn back again to the begin- 
ning. For instance should Thursday be the 2yth of January, instead of the last, as punted, turn 
back to the first Friday in January, and proceed until the month is completed. Special menus 
have been prepared for New Year's Day, Washington's Birthday. Fourth of July, Thanksgiving 
Day, and Christmas. 



NEW YEAR'S DA Y. 



Tuesday, January . 

Breakfast. Cuncljeon. 

Eggs a FAurore, 444. Stuffed Deviled Crabs, 370. 

Boiled Haddock, Cream sauce, 352, 181. Chicken Saute a la Marengo, 771. 

Lamb Chops, maison d'or, 683. Sweet Potatoes Soufflees, 1010. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. Macaroni au Gratin, 955. 

Stewed Prunes a la General Dufour, 1330. Maraschino Pudding, 1134. 
Wheat Cakes, 1184. 

inner. 

Blue Point Oysters, 298. Haut Sauterne. 

SOUPS. 

Cream of Asparagus, 70. 
Consomme Royale, 107. Amontillado, 

HORS D'CEUVRE. 

Radishes, 292. Olives. 

Timbales a 1'Ecossaise, 261. 

RELEVES. 

Bass a la Regence, 305. 
Potatoes a la Windsor, 1008. Rauenthaler-Berg. 

Fillet of Beef, larded a la Parisienne, 514. 
Saddle of Mutton, currant jelly, 666. Pomtnery Sec. 

ENTREES. 

\ Sweetbreads, larded a la Colbert, 617. 

Terrapin a la Maryland, 397. Chateau Latour. 

SORBET. 

Kirsch Punch, 1305. 

ROTIS. 

Canvas-back Ducks, 874. 
Celery, Mayonnaise Salad, 1042. Chambertin. 

ENTREMETS. 

Artichoke Bottoms, 897. French Peas, 977. 

String Beans, 948. 

SWEET ENTREMETS. 

Plum Pudding a 1'Anglaise, 1163. 

ICES. 

Vanilla, 1271. Pistache, 1275. 

Fruit. Cakes. 

Coffee, 1349. 

Cordials. 

25 



26 



THE TABLE: 



Wednesday, January . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs, with brown butter, 414. 

Fried Scallops, Tomato sauce, 301-205. 

Minced Lamb a 1'Anglaise, 688. 

Hashed Potatoes, 1002. 

Rice and Milk, 1177. 

Cuncljeon. 

Lobster a la Bordelaise, 360. 

Mutton Chops, Maintenon, 685. 

Potatoes Chateau, 1009. 

Herring Salad, 1074. 

Galette, 1221. 



JDinner. 

Oysters, 298. 

Mock Turtle, 17. 

Celery, 290. Sardines, 283. 

Fillets of Sole, Joinville, 322. 
Salmi of Duck a la Bourgeoise, 829. 

String Beans, with cream, 946. 

Venison Steak, Londonderry sauce, 880. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

Roast Veal, 585. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Nelson Pudding, 1155. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday, January . 



Breakfast. 

Omelet Raspail, 467. 

Fish Balls, 347. 
Beefsteak, with Anchovy butter, 524-146. 

Potatoes a la Rice, 1007. 
Blanc Mange a la Josephine Delmonico, 1270. 



Cuncljcon. 



Oyster Patties, 387. 
Broiled Kidneys, with Bacon, 713. 

Saratoga Potatoes, ion. 

Blanquette of Veal, with Mouilles, 552. 

Strawberry Tarts, 1117. 



JD inner. 

Oysters, 298. 

Puree Crecy, 47. 

Olives. Radishes, 292. 

Salmon a la Regence, 305. 
Sweetbreads, with Spinach, 607. 

Spaghetti a PItalienne, 960. 

Mignon Filets aux Pommes Parisiennes, 515. 

Roast Chicken, 755. 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Almond Cake, 1224. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, January . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs a la Bourguignonne, 411. 

Whitebait, 301. 
Pig's Feet a la Boston, 730. 

Succotash, 1022. 
Brioche a la Conde, 1203. 

Cuncljcon. 

Boiled Skate, cream sauce, 325-181. 
Stewed CalPs Liver a PAlsacienne, 582. 

Oyster-Plant Poulette, 1019. 

Lobster Salad a la Plummer, 1062. 

Vermicelli Pudding, 1142. 



dinner. 



Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Asparagus, 70. 

Celery, 290. Thon, 282. 

Smelts a la Toulouse, 354. 

Braised Beef a la Flamande, 482. 

Artichokes a la Florentine, 903. 

Chicken Saute a la Marengo, 771. 

French Peas. 
Roast Quail, with Watercress, 834. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Pie a la Martha Washington, 1105, 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



Saturday, January - . 



Breakfast. 

Ham Omelet, 462. 

Boiled Halibut, butter sauce, 309-157. 

Chicken Livers, with Bacon, 769. 

Sweet Potatoes Soufflees, 1010. 

Cora Fritters, 965. 

Ctmcljeon. 

Stuffed Oysters a la Mali, 386. 

Chicken Pot-pie, 757. 

Anchovy Salad, 1037. 

Diplomatic Pudding, 1129. 



JD inner. 



Clams, 300. 

Pot-au-feu, 54. 

Olives. Radishes, 292. 

Matelote of Eels, 332 
Partridge, braised with Cabbage, 845. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Calfs Head a la Poulette, 639. 

Potatoes a la Bignon, 1001 . 

Roast Mutton, 585. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Baked Apple Dumplings, 1122. 

Champagne Jelly, 1322. 

Coffee, 1349 



Sunday y January , 



Breakfast. 

Eggs a la Livingstone, 410. 

Picked-up Codfish, 346. 
Escalops of Veal, Provengale, 573. 

Potatoes Julienne, 1013. 
Iced Timbale of Rice, 1175. 



Cuncljeon. 



Lobster a la Newburg, 359. 

Chicken Croquettes a la Perigourdin, 761. 

Hashed Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. 

Macaroni, with cream, 954. 

Chocolate Eclairs, 1243. 



SHnncr. 



Radishes, 292 



Oysters, 298. 
Chicken a la Piemontaise, 63 



Celery. 290 



. 

Blackfish au Gratin, 319. 

Minced Beef a la Catalan, 502, 

Cauliflower, butter sauce, 925. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton, caper sauce, 651. 

Brussels iSprouts, 922. 

Romaine Punch, 1304. 

Roast Grouse, 852. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

English Pudding, 1137. 

Stilton Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, January . 



Breakfast. 

Omelet, with fine Herbs, 451. 

Lobster Cutlets, Victoria, 366. 

Sausages au Gastronome, 740. 

Carrots and Cream, 927. 

Rice al'Airolo, 1171. 

tmcl)eon. 

Broiled Sardines on Toast, 403. 

Hamburg Steak, Russian sauce, 526. 

Potatoes a la Hanna, 1012. 

Chicken Salad, 1044. 

Apple Tarts, 1 120. 



EHnncr. 



Clams, 300. 

Brunoise, 2. 

Lyon Sausage, 286. Olives 

Smelts au Gratin, 356. 
Stewed Lamb, with Peas, 706. 

Potatoes Soufflees. 1010. 
Croquettes of Sweetbreads, Perigueux, 6191 

String Beans, 946. 

Squash a 1'Americaine, 820. 

Barbe de Capucine Salad, 1038. 

Plum Pudding, mo. 

Coffee, 1349. 



28 THE TABLE. 

Tuesday, January . 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Fried Eggs, 412. Oysters, 298. 

Soles a la Horly, 321. Chicken, with Leeks, 68. 

Mutton Chops, Soyer, 647. Radishes, 292. Thon, 282. 

Stewed Potatoes, 995. Broiled Sea Bass, maitre d'hotel, 326. 

Peach Marmalade, 1331. Cucumber Salad, 289. 

Hot Patties a 1'Anglaise, 266. 

iTitrtrhonn Braised Noix of Veal, Morlaisienne, 635. 

jutncneon. Stuffed Egg . plant) 909- 

Lobster en Chevreuse, 362. Roast Chicken, 755. 

Mignon Filets aux Pommes Parisienne, 515. Lettuce, and Egg Salad, 1058. 

Celery a la Bonne Femme, 928. Charlottes Glacees, 1299. 

Apple PJC, 1083. Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, January . 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Eggs a la Tripe, 419. Oysters, 298. 

Porterhouse Steak, with Watercress, 524. Consomme Royal, 107. 

Cold Boiled Ham, 722. Celery, 290. Olives. 

Hashed Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. Fillets of Bass a la Chambord, 343. 

Brioche Fluttes, 1204. Croquettes of Chicken a la Reine, 758. 

Braised Beef a la Mode, 479. 

iTmtf hpfltt Spinach, maitre d'h&tel, 942. 

Roast Venison, currant jelly sauce, 878. 

Stuffed Clams, deviled, 376. Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Epigrammes of Lamb, with chicory, 690. Savarin a 1'Anglaise, 1199. 

Macaroni au Gratin, 955. Sherry Wine Jelly, 1318, 

French Pudding, 1139. Coffee, 1349, 



Thursday, January . 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Scrambled Eggs, with Asparagus tops, 406. Clams, 300. 

Broiled Sardines on Toast, 403. Terrapin, 61. 

Black Sausages, with mashed Potatoes, 719. Radishes, 292. Lyon Sausage, 286. 

Stewed Prunes, 1330. Sheep's-head au Gratin, 319. 

Saddle of Mutton a la Sevigne, 669. 
Broiled Fresh Mushrooms on Toast, 916. 

Chicken Saute a la Parmentier, 773. 
Canape Lorenzo, 391- French Peas. 



Beefsteak Pie a 1'Anglaise, 487. SUr 

Macedoine Salad, 1063. Celer y' Mayonnaise Salad, 1042. 

Rhubarb Tarts, . Baba au Rhum ' 12 ' 7 ' 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



Friday, January . 



Breakfast. 

Oyster Omelet, 452. 

Pork Andouillettes, 742. 

Mutton Chops, maison d'or, 683. 

Sorrel, with Croutons, 974. 

French Pancake, 1186. 

Cnncljecm. 

Mussels a la Mariniere, 378. 
Duck a 1'Americaine, 823. 

String Beans, 947. 
Apple Charlotte, 1167. 



Sinner. 



Oysters, 298. 
Bisque of Crabs, 9. 

Celery, 290. Olives. 

Broiled Pompano, maitre d'h&tel, 329. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 

Tenderloin Pique a la Bernardi, 523. 

Stuffed Green Peppers, 975. 

Calfs Head en tortue, 641. 

Roast Quail, 834. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Vanilla Ice-Cream, 1271. 

Lady-Fingers, 1231 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, January . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs a la Finoise, 424. 

Codfish a la Bonne Femme, 345. 

Veal Cutlets en Papilottes, 566. 

Mashed Potatoes au Gratin, 998. 

Milan Cake, 1228. 

Cnnctyeon. 

Crabs a la St. Jean, 371. 

Chicken a la Maryland, 785. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Anchovy Salad, 1037. 

Apricot Tarts, 1108. 



Sinner. 

Oysters a 1'Alexandre Dumas, 299. 

Croute-au-Pot, n. 

Thon, 282. Radishes, 292. 

Fillet of Soles, a la Hollandaise, 317. 

Potatoes a la Parisienne, 986. 
Shoulder of Lamb Rouennaise, 698. 

Spinach, with gravy, 943. 

Sweetbreads a la Bearnaise, 610. 

Roast Squabs, 816. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Omelet Celestine, 477. 

Lemon Water Ice, 1279. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, January . 



Breakfast. 



Sausage Omelet, 465. 

Fried Smelts, tartare sauce, 301, 207. 

Kidneys, stewed with Madeira, 662. 

Potatoes, maitre d'hfttel, 985. 

Preserved Peaches, 1340. 



uncl)eon. 



Stuffed Clams, 376. 

Curry of Lamb a 1'Indienne, 677. 

Spaghetti au Gratin, 961. 

Chicken Salad, 1044. 

Apple Pie, meringue, 1103. 



Sinner. 



Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Deslignac, 108. 
Celery, 290. Olives. 

Bass aux Fines Herbes, 323. 
Supreme of Chicken a la Toulouse, 786. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Antelope Steak, puree of Chestnuts, 890, 882 

Potatoes a la Bignon, 1001. 

Kirsch Punch, 1305. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Diplomatic Pudding, 1129. 

Gorgon zolla Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



THE TABLE. 



Monday, January . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs k 1'Aurore, 444. 

Mackerel aux Fines Herbes, 331. 

Minced Beef a la Prove^ale, 500. 

Sweet Potatoes Soufflees, 1010. 

Corn Fritters, 965. 



SHnner. 



Cuncljeott. 



Broiled Florida Shad, maitre d'hdtel, 326. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 

Beef Tongue, with risotto, 537. 

Macaroni and Cream 954. 

Cream Renvcrsee, 1252. 



Clams, 300. 

Chicken k la Portugaise, 66. 
Radishes, 292. Celery, 290. 

. Lobster au Curry, 358. 
Pork Chops, sauce piquante, 745. 

Cauliflower, with butter, 925. 
Croquettes of Chicken a la Reine, 758. 

Stuffed Lettuce, 953. 

Roast Turkey, Cranberry sauce, 800, 1329. 

Barbe de Capucine Salad, 1038. 

Omelet Soufflee, 474. 

Kiimmel Jelly, 1323. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday, January . 



Breakfast. 



Oatmeal and Cream. 

Sardine Omelet, 468. 

Beefsteak, Horseradish sauce, 524-164. 

Mashed Potatoes, 998. 
German Pancake, with Apples, 1189. 



Cunctyeon. 



Broiled Pompano, 329. 
Roulade of Beef k 1'Ecarlate, 539. 

Sorrel, with eggs, 974. 

Salad k 1'ltalienne, 1036. 

Peach Pie, 1092. 



SHnner. 



Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Celery, 71. 

Thon, 282. Radishes, 292. 

Deviled Crabs, 370. 
Shoulder of Lamb, jardiniere, 696. 

Potatoes Duchesse, 1006. 
Artichoke Bottoms, Florentine, 903. 
Antelope Chops, Currant jelly, 891. 

Beans Panaches, 950. 
Doe-birds sur canape, 838. 

Celery Salad, 1042. 

Cabinet Pudding a la Sadi-Carnot, 1 164. 
Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, January 



Breakfast. 

Asparagus Omelet, 458. 

Minced Beef a la Catalan, 502. 

Turnips, with gravy, 967. 

Rice k la Frangaise, 1180, 



tmcl) 



eon. 



{Dinner. 



Lobster k I'Americaine, 357. 
Sweetbread Croquettes k la Perigueux, 619. 

Potatoes Julienne, 1013. 

Stewed Fresh Mushrooms, with cream, 915. 

Sago Pudding, 1140. 



Clams, 300. 

Puree a la Parmentier, 44. 

Radishes, 292. Sardines, 283. 

Broiled Blackfish, Shrimp sauce, 325, 178. 

Civet of Hare a la Fran$aise, 893. 

Celery a la Bonne Femme, 928. 
Mutton Chops k la Robinson, 682. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 
Roast Red-head Ducks, 876. 

Lettuce Salad, 1059. 

Charlotte Panachee, 1300. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



Thursday, January . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs, with brown butter, 414. 
Mutton Hash a la Zingara, 652. 

Lima Beans, 952. 
Small Brioches, 1202. 

Cuncljton. 

Oysters a la Poulette, 383. 

Corned Beef and Cabbage, 490. 

Macaroni Napolitaine, 957. 

Chicken Salad, 1044. 

Cherry Tarts, mi. 



JDiniter. 



Oysters, 298. 
Busecca, 7, 
Celery, 290. Oliv 

Salmon a la Genoise, 306. 
Boiled Turkey, Oyster sauce, 797. 

Spinach a PAnglaise, 940. 

Lamb Steak, puree of Peas, 716. 

Potatoes a la Parisienne, 986. 

Woodcock sur Canape, 871. 

Tomato Salad, 1070. 

Hot Savarin, 1198. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, January . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs a la Bennett, 447. 

Fiied Smelts, Colbert sauce, 301, 190. 

Country Sausages a 1'Anglaise, 736. 

Beet-roots, with cream, 912. 

Stewed Quinces, 1338. 

Cttttcljeon. 

Stuffed Lobster a la Diable, 367. 

Stewed Veal, Solferino, 628. 

Fried Egg-plant, 907. 

Tongue Salad, 1056. 

Caramel Pudding, 1166. 



?Dmner. 



Oysters, 298. 

Bouillera-Baisse, i. 

Olives. Sardines, 283. 

Bass a la Venitienne, 338. 
Beef Tongue a la Chipolata, 532, 232. 

Stuffed Green Peppers, 975. 
Pigeon Cutlets a la Victoria, 815. 

Potatoes a la Windsor, 1008. 
Saddle of Antelope, Cranberry sauce, 878, 1329. 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Chocolate Ice-Cream, 1272. 

Vanilla Eclairs, 1245. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, January . 



Breakfast. 



Cheese Omelet, 469. 

Broiled Spanish-Mackerel, 329. 

Breaded Veal Cutlets, tomato sauce, 563. 

Broiled Bacon, 754. 
Rice au Lait d'Amandes, 1170. 



Cmtcl)! 



jecm. 

Oysters en Brochette au Petit Sale, 385. 
Broiled Beefsteak, with Watercress, 524. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Stewed Lamb a la Parisienne, 708. 

Apple Tarts, 1120. 



?Dinner. 

Clams, 300. 

Sorrel, with Asparagus tops, 41. 

Lyon Sausage, 286. Celery, 290. 

Fried Eels, sauce tartare, 301, 207. 

Potatoes, Saratoga, ion. 

Garnished Sour-krout, 924. 

Salmi of Duck, with olives, 827. 

Celery, with cream, 929. 

Roast Leg of Lamb, 648. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Pineapple Pudding, 1148, 

Coffee, 1349. 



THE TABLE. 



Sunday, January . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs a la Meyerbeer, 437. 

Veal Kidneys, sauce madere, 662. 

Stuffed Pig's Feet, 732. 

Potatoes a la Rice, 1007. 

Fried Hominy, 1035. 



uncl)eon. 

Lobster Croquettes a la Victoria, 365. 

Broiled Grouse, bread sauce, 854, 162 

Broiled Fresh Mushrooms on Toast, 916. 

Boiled Apple Dumplings, 1127. 



Dinner. 



Oysters, 298. 

Chicken a la Hollandaise, 64. 
Celery, 290. Radishes, 292, 

Red Snapper a la Creole, 339. 
Beef Braised a 1'Orsini, 481 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 
Lamb Croquettes, sauce Robert, 679, 192. 

String Beans, 945. 

Punch b. la Cardinal, 1306. 

Canvas-Back Ducks, Currant jelly, 874, 1326. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Iced Pound Cake, 1193. 

Pistache Ice-Cream, 1275. 

Imported Brie Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, January . 



Breakfast. 



Mushroom Omelet, 460. 

Cold Bass, Ravigote butter, 352, 147 

Hashed Beef a la Zingara, 652. 

Broiled Ham, 753. 

Milan Cake, 1228. 



Ctmcljeon. 



Soft Clams a la Newburg, 390. 

Chicken Saute, with Tarragon, 774. 

Potatoes a 1'Italienne, 990. 

Herring Salad, 1074. 

Baked Apples, 1 1 24. 



Dinner. 



Oysters, 298. 
Consomme Celestine, 118. 

Thon, 282, Celery, 290. 

Terrapin a la Maryland, 397. 

Compote of Squabs, 822. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 

Veal Fricandeau a la Morlaisienne, 579. 

Sorrel au Gras, 974. 

Roast Saddle of Mutton, 664. 

Tomato Salad, 1070. 

Pithivier's Cake, 1225. 

Peach Marmalade, 1331. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday ) January . 

Breakfast. Dinner. 



Chicken Liver Omelet, 464. 

Broiled Sardines, sauce percillade, 403, 

Hashed Mutton au Gratin, 653. 

Oyster-plant a la Poulette, 1019 

Wheat Cakes, 1184. 



165 



unrl)eon. 



Sheep's-head, sauce Hollafldaise, 309, 160. 

Beefsteak Pie a I'Americaine, 488. 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Lemon Pie, meringue, 1102. 



Oysters, 298. 

Mulligatawney, 34. 

Tomatoes, 288. Olives. 

Crawfish a la Bordelaise, 360. 
Piloff of Chicken a laTurque, 782. 

Succotash, 1022. 
Sweetbreads Piques a la Financiere, 603. 

Spaghetti a 1'Italienne, 960. 
Roast Quails, with Watercress, 834. 

Escarole Salad, 1^55. 

Cocoanut Pudding, 1147. 

Camembert Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



33 



Wednesday, January . 



Eggs a la Valencienne, 421. 

Fried Frostfish, sauce Colbert, 301-190. 

Mignon Filets a la Bernardi, 512. 

Hashed Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. 

Stewed Apples, 1332. 



Cuncljeon. 



Crabs &l'Anglaise, 373. 

Hashed Turkey en Bordure, 805. 

Broiled Tomatoes, 1025. 

Potato Salad, 1073. 

Farina Pudding, 1144. 



dinner. 

Clams, 300. 

Beef a 1'Ecossaise, 6. 

Anchovies, 284. Celery, 290. 

Smelts a la Toulouse, 354. 
Civet of Hare, poivrade sauce, 886. 

Stuffed Cabbage, 919. 
Breast of Lamb, jardiniere, 702. 

Roast Chicken, 755. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Orange Water-ice, 1280. 

Allumettes, 1205. 

Roquefort Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday, January . 



Breakfast 

Scrambled Eggs, with Chicory, 409. 

Broiled Oysters, 382. 

Flat Sausages, with White Wine, 735. 

Carrots, with Cream, 927. 

Brioche a laConde, 1203. 

Cunctjeon. 

Oysters a la Mali, 386. 
Irish Stewed Mutton, 660. 

Shrimp Salad, 1067. 
French Pancake, with jelly, 1187. 



Dinner. 



Clams, 300. 

Consomme au Vermicelli, 103. 

Celery, 290. Lyon Sausage, 286. 

Frogs' Legs a la Geo. Merrill, 1372. 

Leg'of Mutton a la Conde, 649. 

Stuffed Onions, 970. 
Supreme of Chicken a la Toulouse, 786. 

Fresh Mushrooms on Toast, 914. 

Red-head Duck a I'Americaine, 820. 

Lettuce and Egg Salad, 1038. 

Peach Ice-Cream, 1276. 

Almond Biscuits, 1235. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, January - 



Breakfast 

Tomato Omelet, 456. 

Black Bass, Oyster sauce, 309, 173. 

Chicken Livers en Brochette, 769. 

Potatoes a la Lyonnaise, 991. 

Waffles and Sugar, 1196. 



?Dinner. 



Ctmctyeon. 



Croquettes of Salmon a la Victoria, 365, 208. 

Calf's Head a la Vinaigrette, 640. 

Okra, stewed with cream, 1031. 

Russian Salad, 1065. 

Bread Pudding, 1132. 

3 



Oysters a 1'Alexandre Dumas, 299. 

Mulligatawney a la Delmonico, 35. 

Olives. Thon, 282. 

Pompano, with fine Herbs, 331. 
Broiled Tenderloin, with Mushrooms, 496. 

Lima Beans, 952. 

Chicken Vol-au-Vent au Salpicon Royal, 810, 

Artichokes a la Barigoul, 897. [255. 

Roast Woodcock, 871. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Iced Timbale of Rice, 1175. 

Swiss Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349, 



34 



THE TABLE. 



Saturday, January . 



Breakfast. 

Oatmeal and Cream. 

Eggs a la Proven9ale, 422. 

Cod's Tongues, black butter 349. 

Fried Calf's Brains, sauce tartare, 559. 

Oyster Plant, with butter, 1018. 

Baked Apples, 1124. 

Ctmcljeon. 

Crabs a la St. Laurent, 372. 
Broiled Chicken on Toast, 756. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Timbales a la Schultze, 263. 

Rum Omelet, 476 



Dinner. 



Oysters, 298. 
Cream of Chicken, 82. 

Anchovies, 284. Radishes, 292. 

Sheep's-head, Lobster sauce, 158. 
Braised Beef a la Morlaisienne, 478. 

Potatoes en Surprise, 1005. 
Lamb Chops a la Signora, 68 1. 

French Peas. 

Roast Partridge, 843. 

Celery Salad, 1042. 

Charlotte au Cafe, 1262. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, January . 



J3rmkfa0t. 



SHnner. 



Kidney Omelet, 463. 

Broiled Shad., maitre d'h&tel, 326. 

Hamburg Steak, Madeira sauce, 526-185. 

Potatoes Lyonnaise, 991. 

Cream Renversee, 1252. 



Cuncljeon. 



Truffled Boned Turkey, 813. 

Mignon Filets a la Bohemienne, 513. 

Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. 

Shrimp Salad, 1067. 

Chaussons, 1236. 



Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Colbert, 120. 

Olives. Celery, 290. 

Smelts a la Bearnaise, 353. 
Grenadin of Veal a la Sevigne, 588. 

Celery, with Marrow, 930. 
Fiied Chicken, Cream sauce, 181. 

String Beans. 948. 

Punch a la Lallah Rookh, 1308. 

Roast Doe-birds a I'Americaine, 840. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Peach Pudding, 1150. 

Gorgonyolla Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday^ January . 



Sreakfast. 

Boiled Eggs. 

Broiled Calf's Liver and Bacon, 584. 

Tripe a la mode de Caen, 547. 

Potatoes Lyonnaise 991. 

Stewed Pears, 1333. 

Ctincljeon. 

Fried Oysters, 380. 

Veal, stewed with Peas, 631. 

Cauliflower Salad, 1040. 

Pineapple Pie, 1087. 



Dinner. 



Clams, 300. 
Julienne, 27. 

Celery, 290. Radishes, 292. 

Turbot. sauce aurore, 309-182. 

Bouchees a la Reine, 270. 

Flageolets, 1365. 

Epigrammes of Lamb.with Asparagus tops, 690. 
Spaghetti a 1'Italienne, 960. 

Roast Bee., 527. 

Tomato, Mayonnaise Salad, 1071. 

Champagne Jelly, 1322. 

Lady Fingers, 1231. 

Coffee, 1349- 



MENUS. 



35 



Tuesday, January . 



Breakfast. 



Scrambled Eggs, with truffles, 407. 
Boiled Haddock, Cream sauce, 352-181. 
Brochettes of Lamb a la Dumas, 674. 

Potatoes Parisienne, 986. 
Creme en Mousse au Cafe, 1253. 

Ctmcljecitt. 

Bluefish a 1'Italienne, 337. 
Escalops of Veal a la Duxelle, 569. 

Stuffed Cucumbers, 937. 

Croquettes of Macaroni, 279. 

Blackberry Tarts, 1119. 



Dinner. 



Oysters, 298. 

Clear Green Turtle, 18. 

Tomatoes, 288. Radishes, 292. 

Shad, with fine Herbs, 323. 
Broiled Sirloin Steak a la Bordelaise, 491. 

Potatoes Bignon, 1001. 
Timbale of Foie-gras, Lagardere, 809. 

Roast Partridge, 843. 

Lettuce, Mayonnaise Salad, 1057-1042. 

Apples Meringuees, 1248. 

Cheddar Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday -, February . 



Brmkfaat. 

Eggs a 1'Imperatrice, 440. 

Mutton Chops, Soyer, with Potatoes, 647 

Broiled Ham, 753. 

Milan Cake, 1228. 



JDinner. 



Fried Oysters, 380. 

Blanquette of Veal, with nouilles, 553. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Mince Pie, 1082 



Clams, 300. 

Menestra, 36. 

Sardines, 283. Celery, 290. 

Lobster en Chevreuse, 362. 
Tenderloin Pique a 1'Egyptienne, 521. 

French Peas. 

Broiled Fresh Mushrooms on Toast, 916. 
Croquettes of Sweetbreads, with Peas, 620. 

Roast Goose, 808. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Boiled Peach Dumplings, 1125. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday, February . 



Urmkfa0t. 



Omelet Regence, 470. 

Boiled Porgies, maitre d'h6tel, 329. 

Minced Veal a la Biscaenne, 576. 

Turnips and Gravy, 967. 

Preserved Cherries, 1347. 



Ctmdjccm. 



Oysters en Brochette au Petit Sale, 385. 

Chicken Pot Pie, 757. 
Tomatoes a la Marseillaise, 1029. 

Beef Salad, 1039. 
Stewed Pears, 1333. 



Dinner. 



Oysters, 298. 

Consomme, with Italian paste, 103. 
Olives. Tomatoes, 2? 

Broiled Spanish-Mackerel, 329. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 
Beef Tongue a la Gendarme, 532. 

Fried Oyster Plant, 1021. 
Salmi of Woodcock a la Chasseur, 873. 

Roast Veal, 585. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Pistache Ice Cream, 1275. 

Bitter Almond Macaroons, 1209. 

Coffee, 1349. 



THE TABLE. 



Friday, February . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs a la Chipolata, 442. 
Picked-up Codfish, 346. 

Lamb en Brochette, Colbert sauce, 674-190. 
Stewed Potatoes, 995. 
Rice and Milk, 1177. 



SUnner. 



Olives. 



jeon. 

Fillets of Sole a la Venitienne, 338. 

Breaded Veal Cutlets, Tomato sauce, 563. 

String Beans, 946. 

Crab Salad, 1047. 

Plum Pudding, 1163. 



Oysters, 298. 
Bisque of Lobster, 10. 
Sardines, 283. 

Salmon, en papillotes, 302. 
Tenderloin a la Hussarde, 519. 

Succotash, 1022. 

Coquilles of Chicken, with Mushrooms, 271. 

Roast English Snipe sur canape, 868. 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Baba, 1216. 

Pont 1'Eveque Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, February . 



Omelet Bonne Femme, 466. 

Tripe Saute a la Lyonnaise, 548. 

Beefsteak, with Watercress, 524. 

Hashed Potatoes, with Cream, 1003. 

Corn Fritters, 965. 

Ctmttyeon. 

Canape Lorenzo, 391. 
Lamb Chops a la Robinson, 682. 

French Peas. 

Anchovy Salad, 1037. 

Diplomatic Pudding, 1129. 



Dinner. 

Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Tapioca, 104. 

Thon, 282. Celery, 290. 

Boiled Sheep's-head, with fine Herbs, 352-323. 

Pig's Cheek, Apple sauce, 726-168. 

Oyster Plant a la Poulette, 1019. 

Piloff of Chicken a la Creole, 783. 

Beans a I 1 Anglaise, 948. 

Roast Mutton, 585. 

Barbe de Capucine Salad, 1038. 

Charlotte Russe, 1261. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, February . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs a la Turque, 439. 

Hashed Lamb, 700. 

Sausages, with White Wine, 735. 

Potatoes Julienne, 1013. 

Peach Marmalade, 1331. 



Cunctyeon. 



EUnner. 



Broiled Spanish Mackerel, maitre d'h&tel, 329. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 

Stewed Veal a la Marengo, 624. 

Rhubarb Pie. 1085. 



Oysters, 298. 
Consomme Douglas, 114. 

Celery, 290. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Croquettes of Lobster, sauce Colbert, 365-190. 

Sweetbreads a la Duxelle, 608. 

Broiled Tomatoes, 1025. 

Chicken Saute a 1'Hongroise, 772. 

Spinach, with croutons, 943. 

Romaine Punch, 1304. 

Roast English Snipe, 868. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Croustade of Rice, 1176. 

Imported Brie Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



37 



Monday, February . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet Mexicaine, 473. 
Broiled English Breakfast Bacon, 754. 
Calf's Liver Saute a 1'ltalienne, 580. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Preserved Plums, 1343. 



Cuncljeon. 



Soft Clams a la Merrill, 389. 
Curry of Chicken a PIndienne, 792. 

French Peas. 

Salad Suedoise, 1069. 

Mille-feuilles, 1223. 



EHnncr. 



Clams, 300. 

Consomme Printanier, 109. 
Celery, 290. Caviare, 281. 

Broiled Smelts, Bearnaise, 353. 
Broiled Lamb Chops, Bordelaise sauce, 647-186. 

Spaghetti a 1'Italienne, 960. 

Antelope Steak, Currant jelly sauce, 884. 

Sweet Potatoes, Hollandaise, 999. 

Roast Teal Ducks, 859. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Tapioca Pudding, 1141. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesdfoy, February . 



Breakfast. 



EHnner. 



Eggs au Miroir, 425. 

Broiled Deviled Mutton, Kidneys, 715. 

Hamburg Steak, Russian sauce, 526. 

Lima Beans, 952. 
German Pancake, 1188. 



Cuncljecm. 



Broiled Shad, maitre d'hotel, 326. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 

Salmi of Duck, Rouennaise, 825. 

Onions, with Cream, 968. 

Greengage Pie, 1093. 



Oysters, 298. 

Chicken a la Richmond, 62. 
Celery, 290. Radishes, 292. 

Stuffed Lobster, 367. 

Tenderloin, pique a la Portugaise, 517. 

Potatoes Duchesse, 1006. 

Squabs en Crapaudine, 819. 

Brussels Sprouts sautes au beurre, 922. 

Roast Chicken, 755. 

Celery, Mayonnaise Salad, 1042. 

Sponge Cake, 1 195. 

English Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, February . 



Breakfast. 

Tomato Omelet, 456. 

Broiled Smelts, Bearnaise, 353. 

Chicken Livers en Brochette, 769. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 
Preserved Apricots, 1340. 

Cundjeon. 

Lobster en Brochette, 361. 

Beefsteak Pie a 1'Anglaise, 487. 

Spinach, with eggs, 943. 

Macedoine Salad, 1063. 

Huckleberry Tarts, 1113. 



HHnner. 



Oysters, 298. 

Giblet a 1'Anglaise, 22. 

Sardines, 283. Celery, 290. 

Bass a la Chambord, 343. 

Stewed Veal a la Grecque, 626. 

Edible Snails a la Bourguignonne, 393. 

Artichokes, Barigoul, 897. 

Roast Plover, 865. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Creme en mousse, 1260. 

Sweet Almond Macaroons, 1210. 

Coffee, 1349. 



38 THE TABLX. 



Thursday, February . 

Ureakfa0t. JDinner. 

Eggs a 1'Imperatrice, 440. Clams, 300. 

Broiled Pig's Feet, maitre d'h6tel, 727, 145 Consomme Rachel, 123. 

Smoked Beef, with Cream, 486. Radishes, 292. Olives. 

Potatoes Hollandaise, 999. Crabs . St. Laurent, 372. 

Brioche, 1 201. Panpiette of Veal, puree of Chestnuts, 594. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 
Chicken Saute, with tarragon, 774. 

Asparagus a la Tessinoise, 906. 
Oyster Patties, 387. Roast Beef; ^ 

Sirlcin Steak a la Duchesse, 494 . Celery> Mayonnaise Salad 1042. 

Potatoes Chateau, 1009. p arfait au Cafi> ; 

Lobster Salad a la Plummer, 1062. Coffee, 1349. 

Vanilla Eclairs, 1245 



Friday, February . 

Breakfast. JDmner. 

Omelet, with fine Herbs, 451. Oysters, 298. 

Haddock, Cream sauce, 352, 181. Bisque of Clams, 8. 

Brochette of Lamb a la Colbert, 674, 190 Celery, 290. Olives. 

Saratoga Potatoes, ion. Lobster a 1'Americaine, 357. 

Buckwheat Cakes, 1 183. Broiled Tenderloin a la Nivernaise, 505. 

1]> r mt Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

jUUllljgQli. Stuffed Pig's Feet, Perigueux, 732. 

Fried Smelts, Tomato sauce, 301, 205. Goose, stuffed with Chestnuts, 808. 

Leg of Mutton, Bretonne, 650. Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Spaghetti a 1'Italienne, 960. Custard Pudding, 1154. 

Russian Salad, 1065. Brie Cheese. 

Blackberry Pie, 1097 Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, February . 

33reakfa0t JBmner. 

Eggs a la Reine, 438. Oysters, 298. 

Broiled Fresh Herrings, anchovy butter, 329, Cream of Cauliflower, 73. 

Minced Veal a la Catalan, 575. [146. Celery, 290. Radishes, 292. 

Stewed Carrots, and Cream, 927. Bluefish a 1'Icarienne, 336. 

Peach Marmalade, 1331. Roast Sucking Pig, Apple sauce, 720. 

. Stuffed Green Peppers, 975. 

Clinch POn Turkey's Legs k la Diable, 766. 

Beans Panaches, 950. 

Broiled Lobster, Tomato sauce, 364, 205. Roast Spring Lamb, Mint sauce, 1361, 169. 

Stewed Lamb, and Potatoes, 708. Lettuce Salad, 1058. 

Broiled Fresh Mushrooms on Toast, 916. Charlotte Russe, 1261. 

Apples, with Rice, 1169. Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 39 



Sunday, February . 

Breakfast. HHnner. 

Omelet, with Cheese, 469. Oysters a 1'Alexandre Dumas, 299. 

Broiled Mutton Chops, Parisian potatoes, 647, Consomme Chatelaine, 128. 

Tripe Saute a la Creole, 545. [986. Radishes, 292. Tomatoes, 2? 

Wheat Cakes, 1184. Bass a la Venitienne, 338. 

Chicken Saute a la Marengo, 771. 

Sweet Potatoes Hollandaise, 999. 

Sweetbreads, larded a la Soubise, 606. 

Carrots, with Cream, 927. 

Canape Madison, 260. Punch a la Lorenzo Delmomco, 1303. 

Broiled Sirloin a la Moelle, 493. R oast Beef, 527. 

Spaghetti Napolitaine, 959. Barbe de Capucine Salad, 1038. 

String Bean Salad, 1068. Cabinet Pudding a la Sadi-Carnot, 1164. 

Frangipani Tarts, 1121. Strachino Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, February . 

Breakfast. SUnner. 

Eggs a la Bonne Femme, 432. Clams, 300. 

Cod's Tongues a la Poulette, 351. A la R ussef 55< 

Tenderloin of Pork, sauce piquante, 741, 203. Olives. Bologna Sausage, 286. 

Fried Oyster -plant, 1021. Halibut, Lobster sauce, 309-158. 

Waffles, with Sugar, 1196. Corned Beef, with Kale sprouts, 490. 

/T> i Potatoes a la Windsor, 1008. 

lUttttljeOn. Sweetbreads a la Bearnaise, 610. 

Hashed Lamb a la Polonaise, 700. Green Peas * la Bourgeoise, 970. 

Escalops of Veal, Jardiniere, 568. Roast Chicken, with Watercress, 735. 

Succotash, 1022. Doucette Salad, 1052. 

Shrimp Salad, 1067. A PP le Charlotte, 1167. 

Pear Pie, 1084. Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday, February . 

Breakfast dinner. 

Omelet Re"gence, 470. Oysters, 298. 

Broiled Ham, 733. Crabs, with Gumbo, 24. 

Lamb Chops a la Robinson, 682. Radishes, 292. Olives. 

Lima Beans, 952. Smelts, Toulouse, 354. 

Stewed Plums, 1337. Tendron of Veal a la Chipolata, 636. 

Chicken Saute a la Parmentier, 773. 
Tomatoes a la Bock, 1026. 

Roast Squabs, 816. 

Broiled Deviled Lobster, butter sauce, 364, 159. Beet-root and Doucette Salad, 1053. 

Stewed Tripe a la Lyonnaise, 548. Almond Cake, 1224. 

Fried Egg-plant, 907. Neufchatel Cheese. 

Apple Fritters, 1191. Coffee, 1349. 



7'HE TABLE. 



Wednesday, February . 



Breakfa0t. 



Eggs a la Hyde, 448. 

Broiled Boned Smelts, tartare sauce, 354, 207 

Escalops of Veal au Jus, 568. 

Hashed Potatoes, 1002. 

Milan Cake, 1228. 



Cnncl) 



eon. 



Welsh Rarebit, 294. 

Bass, with fine Herbs, 323. 

Broiled Porterhouse Steak, 524. 

Macaroni Croquettes, 279. 

Pumpkin Pie, 1099. 



dinner. 

Oysters, 298. 

Brunoise, with Sorrel, 4. 

Celery, 290. Olives. 

Salmon Cutlets, Victoria, 366. 
Antelope Steak, Currant jelly, 890. 
Oyster Plant a la Poulette, 1019. 
Mignon Filets, with Marrow, 510. 
Cauliflower, sauce Hollandaise, 925. 
Upland Plovers, sur canape, 865. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Coffee Ice Cream, 1273. 

Fancy Almond Cakes, 1239. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday, February . 



Breakfast 

Omelet, with Chicken Livers, 464. 

Broiled Sardines on Toast, 403. 

Broiled CalPs Liver and Bacon, 584. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Brioche Fluttes, 1204. 

Cnndjeon. 

Soft Clams a la Newburg, 390. 
Lamb Stewed a la Creole, 711. 

Herring Salad, 1074. 

Cherry Tarts, uu. 



BUnner. 

Clams, 300. 

Cream of Barley, 77. 

Radishes, 292. Cucumbers, 289. 

Shad, with Sorrel, 327. 
Chicken Saute k la Bohemienne, 778. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

Coquilles of Sweetbreads a la Dreux, 621. 

New Peas, with cream, 980. 

Roast Turkey, oo. 

Lettuce Salad, 1059. 

Baked Apple Dumplings, 1122. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, February . 



Breakfast. 

Hominy and Cream, 1034. 
Scrambled Eggs, with Truffles, 407. 

Picked-up Codfish, 346. 

Sausages, with White Wine, 735. 

Potatoes, maitre d'hdtel, 985. 

Corn Fritters, 965, 



Cttncfjeon. 



Skate, with black butter, 325, 159. 

Corned Beef Hash en Bordure, 531, 

Stuffed Egg-plant, 909. 

Stewed Peaches, 1334. 



Dinner. 



Oysters, 298. 

Consomme a FAfricaine, 116. 
Radishes, 292. Caviare, 281. 

Bluefish k PItalienne, 337. 
Tenderloin Pique a la Proven9ale, 518. 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 
Veal Cutlets a la Marechale, 562. 

String Beans, 948. 
Doe-birds a 1'Americaine, 840. 

Chicory Salad, 1046. 

Apples Meringuees, 1248. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



Saturday, February . 



Breakfast. 

Omelet Raspail, 467. 

Hashed Mutton au Gratin, 653. 

Pig's Feet a la Boston, 730. 

Succotash, 1022. 
French Pancake, 1186. 

Ctmcl)eon. 

Cromesquis aux Truffes, 268. 

CalPs Head a la Financiere, 637. 

Stewed Sweet Potatoes, 995. 

Rum Omelet, 476. 



SHnner. 



Clams, 300. 

Puree of Chestnuts, 91. 
Celery, 290. 

Sole a la Normande, 318. 
Antelope Chops, port wine sauce, 891. 

Potatoes Chateau, 1009. 

Chicken Saute a la Bordelaise, 776. 

Asparagus, drawn butter, 904-157. 

Roast Mutton, 585. 

Celery Salad, 1042 

Savarin al'Anglaise, 1199. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Olives. 



Sunday, February . 



Breakfast 

Oatmeal, with Cream. 

Eggs a la Meyerbeer, 437. 

Broiled Deviled Kidneys, 715. 

Potatoes a la Rice, 1007. 

Malaga Grapes. 

Ctmcljeon. 

Broiled Pompano, maitre d'h6tel, 329. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 

Mutton Chops, Soyer, 647. 

Spaghetti au Gratin, 961. 

, Sago Pudding, 1140. 



Dinner. 

Oysters, 298. 

Cream a 1'Allemande, 84. 
Radishes, 292. Celery, 290. 

Lobster a la Newburg, 359. 
Broiled Tenderloin a la Trianon, 507. 

Potatoes a la Hanna, 1012. 

Lamb Chops, maison d'or, 683. 

Spinach, with Croutons, 943. 

Punch a la Frangaise, 1311. 

Roast English Snipe, 868. 

Barbe de Capucine Salad, 1038. 

Macedoine Glacee a la Cavour, 1298. 

Stilton Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, February . 



Breakfast. 

Omelet, with Smoked Beef, 461. 

Fried Oysters, 380. 
Lamb Steak a rAmericaine, 718. 

Lima Beans, 952. 
Brioche, 1201. 



Ctmctjj 



jeott. 

Timbales a 1'Ecossaise, 361. 

Tendron of Veal, Morlaisienne, 635. 

Sweet Potatoes Soufflees, 1010. 

Lobster Salad, 1061. 

Apple Pie, 1083. 



JDinner. 



Clams, 300. 

Consomme d'Orleans, no. 
Olives. Cucumbers, 289. 

Shad, vert pre, 328. 

Cromesquis of Chicken a la Richelieu, 764. 

CalPs Liver, braised, Bourgeoise, 583. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Maraschino Pudding, 1134. 

Coffee, 1349. 



THE TABLE. 



Tuesday, February . 



Breakfast. 

Lobster Omelet, 454. 

Hashed Turkey a la Creme, 804. 

Lamb's Tongues, sauce piquante, 203. 

Stewed Potatoes, 994. 

Stewed Quinces, 1338. 



Cunctjeon. 

Oysters a la Baltimore, 388. 

Brisotin of Veal a PEcarlate, 555. 

Macaroni au Gratin, 955. 

Baked Apples, 1124. 



JDimter. 

Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Celery a TEspagnole, 86. 
Celery, 290. Radishes, 292. 

Oyster Crabs a la Poulette, 374. 
Civet of Hare a la Frangaise, 893. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Squabs en Compote, 822. 

String Beans a PAnglaise, 948. 

Roast Capon, 755. 

Dandelion Salad, 1048. 

Baba, with Rum, 1217. 

Domestic Brie Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, February . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs a la Tripe, 419. 

Calf's Brains, brown butter, 557. 

Lamb Chops a la Signora, 681. 

Hashed Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. 

Rice a la Frangaise, 1180. 



Lobster en Chevreuse, 362. 
Breast of Veal a la Milanaise, 596. 

Carrots and Cream, 927. 

Spaghetti Napolitaine, 959. 

Custard Pie, noo, 



SDinnnr. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Chicken a la Creole, 65. 

Radishes, 292. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Bass a la Bordelaise, 341.' 
Broiled Sirloin Steak a la Moelle, 493. 

String Beans au Blanc, 947. 
Salmi of Duck a la Chasseur, 828. 

Celery, with gravy, 928. 
Roast Saddle of Lamb, 664. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Chocolate Pudding, 1146. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday, February 



Breakfast. 



Omelet Espagnole, 472. 

Broiled Perch, maitre d'h&tel, 329. 

Black Sausages, with mashed Potatoes, 719. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 
Whipped Cream a la Vanille, 1254. 



Cuncljecm. 



Fried Oysters, 380. 
Broiled Chickens' Legs a la Diable, 766. 

Spinach, with Eggs, 943. 

Lamb's Tongue Salad, 1056. 

Mince Pie, 1082. 



JDinner. 



Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Dubourg, 101. 
Olives. Mortadella, 287. 

Red-snapper, Caper sauce, 352-651. 
Turban of Chicken a la Cleveland, 791. 

Potatoes Duchesse, 1006. 
Sweetbreads, Larded a la Cardinal, 602. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Roast Ptarmigan, with Watercress, 862. 

Lettuce Salad, 1058. 

Fruit Pudding, 1161. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



43 



WASHINGTON'S BIRTHDAY. 

Friday, February . 

Urmkfast. 

Eggs a la Bechamel, 416. 

Oysters en Brochette au Petit Sale, 385. 

Minced Lamb a 1'Anglaise, 688. 

Potatoes, maitre d'h&tel, 985. 
French Pancake, with jelly, 1187. 

Cmtcfjeott. 

Crabs a la St. Jean, 371. 

Stewed Veal a la Chasseur, 632. 

Stuffed Egg-plant, 909. 

Cauliflower Salad, 1040. 

Coffee Eclairs, 1244. 

dinner. 

Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Cream Palestine, 74. 
Tomatoes, 288. Celery, 290. 

Shad, with fine Herbs, 323. 
Supreme of Chicken a la Bayard, 787. 

Broiled Tomatoes, 1025. 

Lamb Steak, with pure"e of Chestnuts, 716-131. 

Stewed Mushrooms on Toast, 914. 

Roast Squabs, 816. 

Celery Salad, 1042. 

Pie k la Martha Washington, 1105. 

Coffee, 1349. 



44 THE TABLE. 



Saturdav, February . 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Omelet a la Vanderbilt, 471. Oy5ters, 298. 

Tripe a la Bordelaise, 544. Consomme au Sago, 104. 

Mutton Kidneys, with Bacon, 661. Thon, 282. Radishes, 292. 

Turnips, cream sauce, 967, 181. Bass a la Bordelaise, 341. 

Apples, with Rice, 1169. Tenderloin of Beef Pique, sauce Perigueux, 

/[ L 516, 191. 

^UntljeOn. Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Stuffed Oysters a la Mali, 386. Sweetbread Croquettes, with Peas, 620. 

Epigrammes of Lamb a la Chicoree, 690. Roast Teal Ducks, 859. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. Tomato and Lettuce Salad, 1060. 

String-Bean Salad, 1068. Charlotte Panachee, 1300. 

Peach Tarts, 1106. Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, February . 

Breakfast. JDtnner. 

Poached Eggs on Toast, Anchovy butter, Oysters, 298. 

404 146 Green Turtle l6 ' 

Whitebait, 301. OliveS - c Radkhes ' 

Smoked Beef, with Cream, 486. SmaU B UcWeS k la Rdne ' 27 ' 

Potatots a la Rice, 1007. r Terrapm a la Baltimore - ^' 

Preserved Raspberries, I34 6. Mignon Filets with Mushrooms, 514- 

Fresh Green Peas a 1'Anglaise, 978. 
Fricassee of Chicken, with Curry, 792. 
. Lima Beans, 952. 

Punch en Surprise, 1309. 
Broiled Spanish-mackerel, maitre d'h&tel, 329. Red-head Duck, 876. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. Lettuce Salad, 1058. 

Beefsteak Pie a 1'Americaine, 488. Plum Pudding, 1163. 

Omelet au Kirsch, 476. Gorgonzolla Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, February . 

Breakfast. JDinner. 

Eggs, with Tarragon, 429. LitUe Neck clamS) 

Broiled Veal Kidneys a la Diable, 715. p uree of Lima Beans ^ 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. Sardines, 283. Celery, 290. 

Tnpe a la Mode de Caen, 547. Sheep's-head a la Creole, 339. 

Peach Marmalade, 1331. Shoulder of Lamb a la Macedoine, 697. 

Ctincheon. Risotto, ioi 7 . 

Chicken Vol-au-Vent, with Mushrooms, 810. 

Stewed Oysters a la Pompadour, 384. Roast Loin of p ork) ^ 

Mutton Chops, Soyer, 647. Barbe de Capudne Salad> , Os8 . 

Spaghetti, with black butter, 954, 159- Meringues Glacees, 1301. 

Anchovy Salad, 1037. Coffee> I349 . 
HotSavarin, 1198. 



MENUS. 



45 



Tuesday, February . 



Breakfast. 



Scrambled Eggs, with Mushrooms, 405. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Minced Beef a 1'Italienne, 500. 

Oyster-plant, Cream sauce, 1020. 

Rice a 1'Airolo, 1171. 



Ctmcljecm. 



Broiled Lobster, Ravigote sauce, 363. 

Blanquette of Veal a 1'Ancienne, 553. 

Tomatoes a la Marseillaise, 1029. 

Pineapple Pie, 1087. 



SUnncr. 

Oysters, 298. 

Chicken a la Turque, 69. 

Cucumbers, 289. Radishes, 292. 

Fried Oyster Crabs, 375. 
Stewed Antelope, sauce poivrade, 886, 

Mushrooms, with Cream, 915. 
Croquettes of Lamb a la Patti, 679. 

Potatoes Bignon, 1001. 

Teal Duck a PAmericaine, 840. 

Doucette Salad, 1054. 

Tapioca Pudding, 1141. 

Roquefort Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, February . 



Breakfast. 

Omelet, with Peas, 459. 

Broiled Ham, 753. 

Calf's Liver a 1'Alsacienne, 582. 

Mashed Potatoes au Gratin, 998. 

Wheat Cakes. 1184. 

Cutuljeon. 

Crabs a la St. Laurent, 372. 

Sausages a la Gastronome, 740. 

Broiled Tomatoes, 1025. 

Potato Salad, 1073. 
Boiled Apple Dumplings, 1127. 



HHnner. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Tomatoes and Rice, 57. 

Olives. Celery, 290. 

Bluefish a 1'Italienne, 337. 
Tenderloin, Marinaded, Russian sauce, 511. 

Beans Panaches, 950. 

Lamb Chops a la Signora, 68 1. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Roast Chicken, 755. 

Celery, Mayonnaise Salad, 1042. 

Biscuits Tortoni, 1287. 

Petites Bouchees a la Mme. Astor, 1238. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday, February . 



Breakfast. 

Kidney Omelet, 463. 

Oysters a la Poulette, 383. 

Hamburg Steak, Colbert sauce, 526, 190. 

Stewed Sweet Corn, 964. 
Creme en Mousse au Maraschino, 1257. 



Cundjeon. 



Canape Madison, 269. 

Salmi of Duck a la Marechale, 831. 

Spinach a la Vieille Mode, 941. 

Beef Salad, 1039. 

Apple Tarts, 1120. 



SDinner. 



Oysters a 1'Alexandre Dumas, 299. 

Chicken a 1'Hollandaise, 64. 

Sardines, 283. Radishes, 29*. 

Skate, with black butter, 325, 159. 

Potatoes a la Windsor, 1008. 

Saddle of Mutton a la Sevigne, 669. 

Lima Beans, cream sauce, 952, 181. 

Larded Sweetbreads au Salpicon, 605. 

Fresh Asparagus, melted butter, 904, 153. 

Roast Loin of Veal, 585. 

Lettuce and Egg Salad, 1058. 

Nelson Pudding, 1155. 

Coffee, 1349. 



4 6 



THE TABLE. 



Friday, March . 



Breakfast 



Eggs a la Post, 1359. 

Picked-up Codfish, 346. 

Pig's Feet a la St. Hubert, 727. 

Potatoes, Hollandaise, 999. 

Stewed Quinces, 1338. 

unct)eon. 

Scallops, poulette sauce 392, 598. 
Veal Cutlets a la Marechale, 562. 

Potatoes, Julienne, 1013. 

Lobster Salad a la Boardman, 1361. 

Plum Pudding, 1163. 



Dinner. 



Clams, 300. 

Puree of Green Peas, 49. 
Olives. Radishes, 292. 

Bass a la Bordelaise, 341. 

Hashed Turkey, with Cream, 804. 

Lamb Chops a la Villeroi, 686. 

Spinach au Croutons, 943. 

Roast Chicken, 755. 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Baba, 1216. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, March . 



Breakfast. 



Dinner. 



Eggs a la Livingstone, 410. Oysters, 298. 

Breaded Broiled Lamb Fries, Tomato sauce,673. Ox-Tail a 1'Ecossaise, 39. 

Mignon Filets a la Parisienne, 514. Celery, 290. Lyons Sausage, 286. 



Potato Croquettes, 997. 
Corn Fritters, 965. 

und)eon. 

Stuffed Deviled Crabs, 370. 

Stewed Mutton a la Parisienne, 708. 

Broiled Chicken Livers au Petit Sale, 769. 

Choux a la Creme, 1246. 



Perch aux Fines Herbes, 331. 
Pork Chops, Apple sauce, 748. 

Succotash, 1022. 

Chicken Saute a la Maryland, 785. 
Green Peas a PAnglaise, 978. 

Roast Plovers, 865. 

Dandelion Salad, 1049. 

Charlotte Russe, 1261. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, March . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs a la Suisse, 441. 

Rice a 1'Airolo, 1171. 

Corned Beef Hash au Gratin, 529. 

Sausages a 1'Anglaise, 736. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1037. 

Waffles and Sugar, 1196. 



Cuncljeon. 



Lobster a la Newburg, 359. 
Slewed Veal, with Oyster-plant, 630. 

Maccdoine Salad, 1063. 
Rice and Orange Pudding, 1130. 



Dinner. 



Oysters, 298. 

Potage a la Dorsay, 96. 

Celery, 290. Radishes, 292. 

Sole Joinville, 322. 

Squabs en Crapaudine, 819. 

Potatoes, Duchesse, 1006. 

Antelope Steaks, puree of Chestnuts, 882. 

Risotto, 1017. 

Punch a la Cardinal, 1306. 

Roast Tenderloin of Beef, 516. 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad, 1060. 

Omelet Soufflee, 474. 

Camembert Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



47 



Monday, March . 



Breakfast 

Barley, with cream. 

Fish Balls a la Mrs. Harrison, 347. 

Mutton Kidneys a la Diable, 715. 

Potatoes a 1'Hollandaise, 999. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Stewed Prunes, 1330. 



Ctmrijeon. 



Oysters Fried a la Arthur Sullivan, 1360. 

Game Pie a la Levi P. Morton, 1362. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Rhubarb Tarts, 1112. 



!D inner. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Printanier Chasseur, 52. 

Olives. Thon, 282. 

Salmon en Papillotes, 302. 
Sirloin Steak, with Marrow, 493. 

Potatoes, Chateau, 1009. 
Duck a la Rouennajse, 825. 
Asparagus, Hollandaise^ 904. 
Roast Mutton, 585. 
Romaine Salad, 1064. 
Tutti Frutti a la Gen. Harrison, 1364. 
Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday, March . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs a la Duchesse, 449. 

Broiled Sardines on Toast, 403. 

Mignon Filets, Anchovy butter, 509, 146. 

Broiled Sweet Potatoes, 983. 
Whipped Cream a la Vanille, 1254. 

Cuncljeon. 

Stuffed Deviled Clams, 376. 

Stewed Lamb, Louisianaise, 710. 

Timbales a la Schultze, 263. 

Cocoanut Pie, noi. 



dinner. 



Oysters al'Alexandre Dumas, 299. 

Giblet a 1'Anglaise, 22. 
Celery, 290. Radishes, 292. 

Broiled Shad, 326. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 

Piloff of Chicken a la Turque, 782. 

Potatoes en Surprise, 1005. 

Spring Lamb Chops a la Soubise, 647, 250. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. 

Roast Teal Duck, 859. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Rice alaConde, 1181. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, March . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs a la Paysanne, 433. 

Chicken Hashed au Gratin, 805. 

Black Sausage, with mashed potatoes, 719. 

Carrots and Cream, 927. 

Stewed Apricots, 1335. 

uncl)eon. 

Oysters a la Villeroi, 381. 
Mutton Kidneys en Brochette, with bacon, 661. 

Chicory, with gravy, 933. 

Calf's Liver Saute a la Provensale, 581. 

Onions, with cream, 968. 

Chocolate Eclairs, 1243. 



Dinner. 



Clams, 300. 

Consomme aux Quenelles, 129. 
Sardines, 283. Radishes, 292. 

Bass a la Chambord, 343. 

Civet of Antelope a la Frangaise, 893. 

Noix of Veal a la Bourgeoise, 590, 583. 

Tomatoes a la Bock, 1026. 

Roast Rice-birds, 877. 

Lettuce, Mayonnaise salad, 1042. 

Baba, creme a. la vanille, 1218. 

Coffee, 1349. 



4 8 



THE TABLE. 



Thursday, March . 



Breakfast. 

Omelet, with fine herbs. 451. 
Boiled Codfish, oyster sauce, 352. 
Mutton Chops a la Robinson, 682. 

Potatoes, maitre d 'hotel, 985. 
Apple Fritters, 1191. 



Ctmcljeon. 



Smelts, with white wine, 342. 

Blanquette of Veal, with nouilles, 552. 

Fried Egg-plant, 907. 

Rum Cake, 1229. 



EUnncr. 



Oysters, 298. 

Puree of Tomato a 1'Andalouse, 58. 

Olives. Radishes, 292. 

Croquettes of Lobsters, sauce aurore, 365, 182. 

Boiled Turkey, oyster sauce, 797. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

Roast Tenderloin of Beef a 1'Hussarde, 519. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Roast English Snipe, 868. 

Dandelion Salad, 1049. 

Peach Ice-cream, 1276. 

Biscuits Ambroisienne, 1234. 

Gruyere Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, March . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs, with brown butter, 414. 

Broiled Shad, maitre d'h6tel, 326. 

Pig's Feet a la Boston, 730. 

Saratoga Potatoes, ion. 

Buckwheat Cakes, 1183. 



(eon. 

Crabs a 1'Anglaise, 373. 
Epigramme of Lamb, Macedoine, 689. 

Lima Beans, 952. 

Cold Bass en Remoulade, 209. 

Pineapple Fritters, 1191. 



Dinner. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Cream of Rice, 78. 
Tomatoes, 288. Celery, 290. 

Codfish, egg sauce, 352, 161. 
Salmi of Doe-birds a la Gastronome, 842. 

String Beans, with butter, 948. 
Veal Cutlets a la Philadelphie, 565. 

Roast Leg of Lamb, 648. 

Barbe de Capucine Salad, 1038. 

Custard Pudding, 1154. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, March 



Breakfast. 



Omelet, with Sardines, 468. 

Haddock, cream sauce, 352, 181. 

Hamburg Steak, Russian sauce, 526. 

Mashed Potatoes au Gratin, 998. 

Brioche, 1201. 



)eon. 

Red-snapper a la maitre d'h&tel, 329. 

Fricandeau of Veal, with sorrel, 577. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Plum Tarts, mo. 



JD inner. 



Oysters, 298. 

Shin of Beef, liee, 79. 

Radishes, 292. Anchovies, 284. 

Oyster Patties, 387. 

Pigeon Cutlets, Victoria, 815. 

Asparagus a laTessinoise, 906. 

Croustade of Kidneys a la Perigueux, 680, 191. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Celery, Mayonnaise salad, 1042. 

Charlotte Russe, 1261. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



49 



Sunday, March . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs a 1'Aurore, 444. 
Fried Smelts, tartare sauce, 301, 207. 
Broiled Calf's Liver and Bacon, 584. 

Fried Potatoes, 993. 

Stewed Apples, 1332. 



Cnncfjeon. 



Lobster a 1'Americaine, 357. 

Irish Mutton Stew, 660. 

Corn Stewed with butter, 964. 

Deviled Lamb Fries, maitre d'h&tel, 672, 145. 

Tomato Salad, 1070. 
Caramel Pudding, 1166. 



JD inner. 

Oysters a PAlexandre Dumas, 299. 

Potage a la Montmorency, 97. 
Olives. Celery, 290. 

Sheep's-head au Gratin, 319. 
Broiled Tenderloin of Beef a la Cheron, 504. 

Parisian Potatoes, 986. 

Coquilles of Sweetbreads a la Dreux, 621. 

Punch en Surprise, 1309. 

Roast Chicken, 755. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Neapolitan Ice-cream, 1292. 

Biscuits a la Richelieu, 1232. 

Roquefort Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349, 



Monday, March . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet Regence, 470. 

Oysters en Brochette au Petit Sale, 385. 

Smoked Beef, with cream, 486. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 
Iced Timbale of Rice, 1175. 



Cuntljeon. 



Stuffed Oysters a la Mali, 386. 
Lamb en Brochette a la Dumas, 674. 

Stuffed Egg-plant, 909. 

Chicken Croquettes, with peas, 276. 

Pear Tarts, 1109. 



JDinner. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Sorrel Fermiere, 81. 

Celery, 290. Sardines, 283. 

Fresh Mackerel, with white wine. 342. 

Curry of Lamb a 1'Indienne, 677. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 
Chicken Saute a la Bordelanse, 776. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Roast Leg of Lamb, 648. 

Doucette Salad, 1054. 

Sago Pudding, 1140. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday, March . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs a la Turque, 439. 

Broiled Perch, tomato sauce, 353, 205. 

Hashed Lamb a la Polonaise, 700. 

Saratoga Potatoes, ion. 

Stewed Peaches, 1334. 



Cuncljeon. 



Oysters a la Baltimore, 388. 

Veal Cutlets a la Milanaise, 563. 

Potatoes a la Rice, 1007. 

Turban of Apples, 1174. 

4 



EDinner. 



Oysters, 298. 
Beef a 1'Ecossaise, 5. 

Tomatoes, 288. Olives. 

Red-snapper a 1'Hollandaise, 317. 

Balotine of Squab a 1'Italienne, 818. 

Shoulder of Lamb, jardiniere, 696. 

String Beans, 948. 

Roast Plovers, 865. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Almond Cake, 1224. 

Coffee, 1349. 



THE TABLE. 



Wednesday, March . 



Breakfast. 

Omelet Raspail, 467. 

Broiled Spanish-mackerel, 329. 

Sausages a I'ltalienne, 737. 

Mashed Potatoes, 998. 

Milan Cake, 1228. 

Ctmcfjwm. 

Crabs a la St. Jean, 371. 

Stewed Beef a la Turque, 542. 

Saratoga Potatoes, ion. 

Stuffed Egg-plant, 909. 

Apricot Pie, 1092. 



SUnner. 

Clams, 300. 

Consomme au Semoule, 104. 
Celery, 2co. Radishes, 292, 

Salmon a la Creole, 339. 
Chicken Fricassee a la Reine, 780. 

Cauliflower, with butter, 925. 

Fresh Artichokes a la Barigoul, 897. 

Roast Snipe sur Canape, 868. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Maraschino Pudding, 1134. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday, March . 



Breakfast. 



Scrambled Eggs, with truffles, 407. 

Cods' Tongues, black butter, 349. 

Lamb en Brochette a la Dumas, 674. 

Hashed Potatoes, 1002. 
Creme en Mousse au Cafe, 1253. 



Broiled Pompano, maitre d'h6tel, 329. 

Calf s Head a la Cavour, 638. 

Oyster-plant a la Poulette, 1019. 

Tongue Salad, 1056. 

Cherry Tarts, mi. 



SDiniur. 

Glen Cove Clams, 300. 

Cream of Lentils a la Major-domo, 88. 

Radishes, 292. Olives. 

Lobster Cutlets, sauce Colbert, 366, 190. 

Broiled Tenderloin a la Florentine, 506. 

Stewed Flageolets, 947. 

Salmi of Duck, with olives, 827. 

Brussels Sprouts, 923. 

Roast Mutton, 585. 

Lettuce, Mayonnaise salad, 1042, 1057. 

Baked Apple Dumplings, 1122. 

Gorgonzolla Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, March . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet a 1'Espagnole, 472. 

Scallops a la Poulette, 392, 598. 

Chicken Livers, sautes au madere, 767. 

Potatoes a 1'Hanna, 1012. 

Small Brioches, 1202. 



und)j 



jton. 

* Broiled Boned Smelts, tartare. sauce, 353, 207. 
Stewed Lamb, with Peas, 706. 
String-Bean Salad, 1068. 
Stewed Green-gages, 1336. 



Dinner. 

Blue Point Oysters, 298. 

Frogs a 1'Espagnole, 25. 

Celery, 290. Radishes, 292. 

Lobster en Chevreuse, 362. 

Brisotin of Veal, poivrade sauce, 554, 194. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Chicken Pot-pie, 757. 

Roast Rhode Island Turkey, 800. 

Dandelion Salad, 1049. 

Orange Pudding, 1158. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



5 1 



Saturday, March . 



Breakfast. 



Dinner. 



Eggs a la Valencienne, 421. 

Fried Sole, sauce tartare, 320, 207. 

Amourettes of Lamb a la Diable, 672. 

Potatoes a 1'Anglaise, 988. 

French Pancake, 1186. 



Ctmctyeon. 



Oyster Patties, 387. 
Chicken Croquettes a la Reine, 758. 

French Peas. 

Beef Salad, 1039. 

Boiled .Peach Dumplings, 1125. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Ox-Tail a 1'Anglaise, 40. 

Olives. Cucumbers, 289. 

Bass a la Bordelaise, 341. 
Salmi of Plover a la Moderne, 870. 

Turnips, with gravy, 967. 

Mignon Filets a la Bohemienne, 513. 

Asparagus, Hollandaise, 904. 

Roast Goose, 808. 

Barbe de Capucine Salad, 1038. 

Apple Pudding, 1152. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, March . 



Breakfast. 

Omelet, with cheese, 469. 

Picked-up Codfish, 346. 

Minced Beef a la Catalan, 502. 

Hashed Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. 

Oatmeal, with cream. 



Dinner. 



Cunctjeon. 



Canape Lorenzo, 391. 

Broiled Spring Chickens, 756. 

Sweet Potatoes a 1'Hollandaise, 999. 

Russian Salad, 1065. 

Chaussons, 1236. 



Oysters a 1' Alexandra Dumas, 299. 

Puree Faubonn, 46. 
Sardines, 283. Celery, 290. 

Shad, vert-pre, 328. 
Shells of Sweetbreads a la Cardinal, 622. 

Artichokes a la Florentine, 903. 

Breast of Turkey a la Robinson, 807. 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Punch a la Delmonico, 1303. 

Roast Squab sur Canape, 816. 

Celery, Mayonnaise salad. 1042. 

Raspberry Water-ice, 1281. 

Lady-fingers, 1231. 

Gorgonzolla Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, March . 



Breakfast. 



Dinner. 



Eggs k la Meyerbeer, 437. 

Aiguillettes of Bass, with White Wine, 342. 

Chicken Livers en Brochette, with bacon, 769. 

French Fried Potatoes, 993. 

Stewed Apples, 1332. 



Cunclji 



jeon. 

Welsh Rare-bit, Golden Buck, 295. 

Shoulder of Lamb, puree Normande, 694. 

Spinach au Croutons, 940. 

Herring Salad, 1074. 

Rhubarb Pie, 1085. 



Clams, 300. 

Printanier Grenat, 51. 

Olives. Radishes, 292. 

Codfish a 1'Hollandaise, 317. 
Mignon Filets a la Pompadour, 509. 

French String Beans, 948. 

Chicken Saute a la Ch. C. Delmonico, 1355. 

French Peas. 

Roast Reed-birds, 877. 

Doucette Salad, 1052. 

Rice Pudding, 1143. 

Coffee, 1349. 



5 2 



THE TABLE. 



Ttiesday, March . 



Srmkfast. 



?B inner. 



Shrimp Omelet, 453. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Hashed Beef au Gratin, 653. 

Saratoga Potatoes, ion. 

Baked Apples, 1124. 

Citncljeon. 

Oysters en Brochette au Petit Sale, 385. 

Stewed Veal a la Grecque, 626. 

Cauliflower Salad, 1040. 

Gooseberry Tarts, 1114. 



Elue Point Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Napolitaine, 37. 

Celery, 290. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Bass, Anchovy sauce, 352, 163. 

Braised Beef a la Bignon, 484. 

Sorrel, with Eggs, 974. 
Pigeon Cutlets a la Victoria, 815. 

Flageolets, 1365. 

Roast Spring Lamb, 1361. 

Escarole salad, 1055. 

Baba au Rhum, 1217. 

Imported Brie Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, March . 



33reakfa0t. 



Eggs au Miroir, 425. 

Broiled Pickerel, maitre d'h6tel, 329. 

Calf's Liver a 1'Alsacienne, 582. 

Stewed Potatoes, 995. 
Red Currant Jelly, 1326. 



Cuml^on. 

Scallops Brestoise, 392. 

Stewed Beef a la Dufour, 541. 

Macaroni au Gratin, 955. 

Apple Meringue Pie, 1103. 



JDtnner. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 
Potage a la Windsor, 94. 

Sardines, 283. Radishes, 292^ 

Broiled Shad Roe, 402. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 
Supreme of Chicken a la Patti, 789. 

String Beans Bretonne, 949. 
Mignons of Lamb, sauce Bearnaise, 1360. 

Spinach and Eggs, 940. 

Roast English Snipe, 868. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Meringues Panachees, 1302. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday, March . 



SJreakfctst. 



Kidney Omelet, 463. 

Shad, maitre d'hotel, 326. 

Veal Cutlets, Tomato sauce, 563. 

Stewed Carrots, with Cream, 927. 

Whipped Cream a la Vanille, 1254. 



Stuffed Deviled Crabs, 370. 

Beef Tongue, Jardiniere, 535. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Strawberry Tarts, 1117. 



JDhnter. 

Rockaway Oysters, 298. 
Sorrel, with Rice, 42. 

Olives. Radishes, 294. 

Cod's Tongues, black butter, 349. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Balotine of Lamb, with Peas, 675. 

Chicken Saute a la Marengo, 771. 

Stuffed Cucumbers, 937. 

Roast Loin of Veal, 585. 

Chicory Salad, 1046. 

English Pudding, 1137. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



53 



Friday, March 



Breakfast. 



SHnner. 



Omelet, with Asparagus-tops, 458. 

Skate, with black butter, 325, 159. 

Pig's Feet a la Poulette, 731. 

Potatoes Julienne, 1013. 
Preserved Green-gages, 1344. 



Ctmcljecm. 



Broiled Spanish-mackerel, 329. 
Broiled Philadelphia Spring Chickens, 756. 

French Peas. 

Tomato Salad, 1070. 

Vermicelli Pudding, 1142. 



Clams, 300. 

Puree Soubise, with White Beans, 92. 
Celery, 290. Olivt 

Perch a la Toulouse, 354. 
Antelope Steak, Port Wine sauce, 891. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. 
Fricandeau of Veal, with Spinach, 578. 

Roast Squab, 816. 

Lettuce and Egg Salad, 1058. 

Macaroon Ice-cream, 1290. 

Lady-fingers, 1231. 

Domestic Brie Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, March . 



Breakfast. 



JD inner. 



Smoked Beef Omelet, 461. 

Broiled Smelts, Bearnaise sauce, 353. 

Lamb Steak a 1'Americaine, 718. 

Potatoes, maitre d'hotel, 985. 

Apples and Rice, 1169. 



Ctmdjeon. 



Matelote of Eels, 332. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Corned Beef, with Kale Sprouts, 490. 

Plum Pie, 1094. 



Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Dubourg, 101. 
Radishes, 292. Thon, 282. 

Sheep's-head aux fines Herbes, 323. 
Epigrammes of Lamb, Louisianaise, 691. 

Stuffed Lettuce, 953. 

Salmi of Ptarmigan a la Chasseur, 864. 

Tomatoes a la Reine, 1024. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Dandelion Salad, 1049. 

Apricot Pudding, 1151. 

Coffee, 1349, 



Sunday, March . 



Breakfast. 



dinner. 



Boiled Eggs. 

Broiled Pompano, maitre d'hdtel, 329. 
Flat Sausages, with mashed Potatoes, 719. 

Turnips and Gravy, 967. 
Creme en Mousse au Kirsch, 1256. 



Cnncljeon. 



Broiled Shad, 326. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 

Boiled Turkey, Celery sauce, 796. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Frangipani Tarts, 1121. 



Shrewsbury Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Tapioca, 104. 
Radishes, 292. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Smelts a la Toulouse, 354. 
Tenderloin of Beef, marinaded, Russian sauce, 

5"- 

Succotash, 1022. 

Saddle of Lamb a la Sevigne, 669. 
Romaine Punch, 1304. 

Roast Goose, 808. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Iced Diplomatic Pudding, 1288. 

Strachino Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



54 



THE TABLE. 



Monday, March . 



Breakfast. 

Omelet with Cepes, 460. 

Fish Balls, 347 . 

Minced Beef a la Catalan, 502. 

Potatoes Gastronome, 1000. 

Peach Marmalade, 1331. 

Cundjeon. 

Oysters a la Poulette, 383. 
Braised CalPs Liver, Bourgeoise, 583. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 

Timbales a la Schultze, 263. 

Savarin, 1197. 



dinner. 



Clams, 300. 

Spaghetti, with Tomatoes, 56. 
Tomatoes, 288. Olives. 

Salmon Croquettes, Cream sauce, 364, 181. 

Croustade of Kidneys a la Perigueux, 680, 191. 

Chicken Saute, with Tarragon, 774. 

Potatoes a 1'Hanna, 1012. 

Roast Mutton, 585. 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Fruit Pudding, 1161. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday, March . 



Ureakfast. 



dinner. 



Scrambled Eggs, with Asparagus-tops, 406. 

Broiled Sardines on toast, 403. 

Lamb Chops, sauce Colbert, 647, 190. 

Potatoes Lyonnaise, 991. 

Maraschino Jelly, 1319. 



Cundjeon. 



Stuffed Deviled Clams, 376. 
Hamburg Steak, Poivrade sauce, 526, 194. 

Broiled Tomatoes, 1025. 
Iced Timbale of Rice, 1175. 



Blue Point Oysters, 298. 
Clear Green Turtle, 18 

Radishes, 292. Caviare, 281. 

Red-snapper, Remoulade sauce, 309, 209. 

Sirloin Steak a la Parisienne, 495. 

Potatoes a la Windsor, 1008. 

Broiled Sweetbreads, Colbert sauce, 617. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Roast Chicken, 755. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Rum Cake, 1229. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, March . 



Breakfast, 



Omelet, with fine Herbs, 451. 
Codfish, cream sauce, 352, 181. 

Mashed Potatoes, 998. 

Corned-beef Hash en bordure, 531. 

Malaga Grapes. 



Cnndjcon. 



dinner. 



Stuffed Deviled Lobster, 367. 

Grenadin of Veal, with mashed Peas, 586. 

Sweet Potatoes soufflees, 1010. 

Boiled Apple Dumplings, 1122. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Brunoise, with Rice, 3. 

Olives. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Bass a la Chambord, 343. 
Leg of Mutton a la Conde, 649. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Chicken Livers, with Madeira Wine, 767. 

Asparagus, sauce Hollandaise, 904. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Tomato, Mayonnaise salad, 1071. 

Iced Pound Cake, 1193. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



55 



Thursday, March . 



Breakfast. 



?Dinner. 



Poached Eggs on toast, anchovy butter, 404. 

Fried Whitebait, 301. 

Tripe a la Bordelaise, 544. 

Hashed Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. 

Creme-en-mousse au maraschino, 1257. 



Ctmctyccm. 



Crabs a la St. Jean, 371. 

Hashed Turkey en bordure, 805. 

Stewed Lima Beans, 952. 

Pumpkin Pie, 1099. 



Blue Point Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Lima Beans, 75. 

Celery, 290. Thon, 282. 

Salmon a 1'Irlandaise, 307. 
Shoulder of Lamb, Flamande, 699. 

Risotto, 1017. 

Sweetbreads, larded, with Mushrooms, 609. 

Green Peas a TAnglaise, 978. 

Roast Red-head Ducks, 876. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Charlotte Russc, 1261. 

Stilton Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, March . 



Breakfast. 



Tomato Omelet, 456. 
Shad, with Sorrel, 327. 
Potatoes, maitre d'h6tel, 985. 
Spaghetti au Gratin, 961. 
Rice and Milk, 1177. 

Cunctyeon. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Stewed Beef a 1'Egyptienne, 540. 

Rice a la Ristori, 1016. 

Lobster Salad, 1061. 

Peach Tarts, 1106. 



Sinner. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Onion, 130. 

Sardines, 283. Olives. 

Red-snapper, Egg sauce, 309, 161. 
Mutton Chops, Napolitaine, 646. 

Beans Panaches, 950. 

Chicken Croquettes a 1'Ecarlate, 760. 

Cauliflower, Hollandaise, 925, 160. 

Roast Corn Plovers, 865. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Baba au Madere, 1217. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, March . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs a la Tripe, 419. 

Fried Sole, Colbert sauce, 320. 

Hashed Mutton en bordure, 653. 

Potatoes en paille, 1014. 

Corn Fritters, 965. 



Ctmcljecm. 



Broiled Veal Kidneys, with Bacon, 713. 

Braised Beef en Daube, 483. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. 

Allumettes, 1205 



5D inner. 

Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Chiffonade, 14. 

Anchovies, 284. Tomatoes, 288. 

Codfish, sauce Hollandaise, 352, 160. 

Minced Veal a la Catalan, 575, 

Chicory, Cream sauce, 932. 

Broiled Sirloin a la Bearnaise, 492. 

String Beans, 948. 
Roast Leg of Mutton, 648. 

Dandelion salad, 1049. 

Chocolate Ice-cream, 1272. 

Petites Bouchees a la Mme. Astor, 1238. 

Ccffee, 1349. 



THE TABLE. 



Sunday, March . 



Breakfast 



SB inner. 



Omelet a la Vanderbilt, 471 . 

Boned Broiled Smelts, Bearnaise sauce, 553. 

Tripe a la Lyonnaise, 548. 

Fried Potatoes, 993. 
Stewed Prunes a la General Dufour, 1330. 

Ctmctjeon. 

Cromesquis aux fines herbes, 268, 143. 

Stewed Veal a la Marengo, 624. 

Spaghetti Napolitaine, 959. 

Chicken Salad, 1044. 
Rice and Orange Pudding, 1130. 



East River Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Imperial, in. 

Radishes, 292. Olives* 

Shad with sorrel, 327. 
Tenderloin of Beef, larded, with stuffed 

tomatoes, 516, 1023. 
Supreme of Chicken a la Rothschild, 790. 

Fresh Asparagus, 904. 
Punch a la Lalla Rookh, 1308. 

Roast English Snipe, 868. 

Barbe de Capucine Salad, 1038. 

Omelet Soufflee, 474. 

Pont PEveque Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, April . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs a la Livingstone, 410. 

Fillets of Sole a la Horly, 321. 

Corned Beef Hash a la Zingara, 530. 

Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. 

Strawberries and Cream. 



Citncljeon. 



Stuffed, Deviled Crabs, 370. 

Blanquette of Veal a la Reine, 550. 

Lamb Tongue Salad, 1056. 

Cream au Cognac, 1258. 



Dinner. 

Clams, 300. 
Pate d'ltalie, 103. 

Sardines, 283 Olives. 

Broiled Trout, maitre d'h&tel, 314. 
Sirloin Pique a la Bordelaise, 491. 

Spinach, with Eggs, 940. 
Pigeon Cutlets a la Victoria, 815. 

Succotash, 1022. 

Roast Hindquarter of Spring Lamb, 1361. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Baba, 1216. 

Brie Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday, April . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet, bonne femme, 466. 

Broiled Beefsteak, 524. 
Calf s Brains, black butter, 557. 

Hashed Potatoes, 1002. 
Brioches a la Conde, 1203. 

Cuncljecm. 

Scallops Brestoise, 392. 

Mutton Stew, Fermiere, 655. 

Shrimp Salad, 1067. 

Plum Pie, 1094. 



Dinner. 

Oysters, 298. 

Mock Turtle, 17. 

Thon, 282. Celery, 290. 

Bluefish a la Bordelaise, 341. 
Mignons Filets a la Pompadour, 509. 

Oyster-plant a la Poulette, 1019. 
Antelope Steaks, Colbert sauce, 881. 

String Beans, 948. 
Roast Rhode Island Turkey, 800. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Chocolate Ice-cream, 1272. 

Sweet Almond Macaroons, 1210. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



57 



Wednesday, April . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs, with black butter, 414. 

Spring Lamb Chops, with Bacon, 647, 754. 

Sausages, with White Wine, 735. 

Saratoga Potatoes, ion. 

Waffles and Sugar, 1196. 

Cuncljectt. 

Smelts, sauce Bearnaise, 353. 

Braised Beef a la Mode, 479. 

Stewed Corn, 964. 

Tomato Salad, 1070. 

Coffee Eclairs, 1244. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Puree Jackson, 43. 

Lyons Sausage, 286. Radishes, 

Kingfish, maitre d'h&tel, 329. 

Potatoes Hollandaise, 999. 
BrZsotin of Veal a 1'Ecarlate, 555. 

Spinach, with gravy, 943. 

Broiled Turkey Legs a la Diable, 766. 

Mushrooms on Toast, 914. 

Roast Beef, 527. 
Dandelion Salad, 1048. 
Omelet Celestine, 477. 
Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday, April . 



Breakfast. 



HHnner. 



Omelet Raspail, 467. 

Hashed Lamb a 1'Anglaise, 688. 

Broiled Calfs Liver, maitre d'hotel, 584, 145. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Rice Cake, 1222. 



Cundjeon. 



Broiled Trout au Petit Sale. 314, 754. 
Stewed Beef, Dufour, 541. 

French Peas. 
Croquettes of Sweetbreads, with Mushrooms, 

620, 230. 
Huckleberry Tarts, 1113. 



Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Printanier Royale, 124. 

Radishes, 292. Celery, 290. 

Shad, with fine Herbs, 315. 

Fricandeau, with Sorrel, 577. 

Piloff of Chicken a la Turque, 782. 

Beans Panaches, 950. 

Roast Squab, 816. 

Barbe de Capucine Salad, 1038. 

Peach Pudding a la Richelieu, 1150. 

Swiss Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, April . 



Breakfast, 



Eggs au Miroir, 425. 

Broiled Fresh Mackerel, 329. 

Mutton Chops a la Provenc^tle, 642. 

Lima Beans, 952. 

Galette, 1221. 



Frogs a la Poulette, 399. 
Chicken Pot-pie, 757. 

Risotto, 1017. 

Lobster Salad, 1061. 

French Pudding a la Delmonico, 1 139. 



Tomatoes, 



JDinner. 

Clams, 300. 
Puree of Crecy, 47. 



Olives. 



Bass a la Chambord, 343. 
Porterhouse Steak a la Bordelaise, 491. 

Stewed Oyster-plant, 1018. 
Sweetbreads a la Financiere, 603. 

Fresh Peas, 978. 

Roast Spring Chicken, 755. 

Chicory Salad, 1046. 

Kirsch Jelly, 1319. 

Cheddar Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



THE TABLE. 



Saturday, April . 



Breakfast. 



Dinner. 



Omelet, with Chicken Livers, 464. 

Broiled Smelts, Tartare sauce, 353, 207. 

Pig's Feet, St. Hubert, 727. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Stewed Apricots, 1335. 



Cunctji 



|eon. 

Fried Whitebait, 301. 

Braised Noix of Veal a la Providence, 590. 

Spinach a 1'Anglaise, 940: 

Macedoine Salad, 1063. 

Chocolate Eclairs, 1243. 



Shrewsbury Oysters, 298. 
Giblets, with Barley, 21. 

Bologna Sausages, 286. Radishes, 292. 

Fresh Mackerel, Colbert, 329, 190. 
Croustade of Chicken Livers, 763. 

Turnips, with gravy, 967. 

Lamb Sweetbreads en caisses, 274. 

Artichokes Barigoul, 897. 

Snipe sur Canape, 868. 

Doucette Salad, 1054. 

Cocoanut Pudding, 1147. 

Coffee, 1349, 



Sunday, April . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs, with Tarragon, 429. 

Haddock, Cream sauce, 352, 181. 

Calf's Liver Saute al'Italienne, 580 

Corn, stewed with butter, 964. 

Cream Renversee, 1252. 

Ctmcljemt. 

Sole au Gratin, 319. 
Stewed Beef a la Dufour, 541. 

Broiled Tomatoes, 1025. 

Timbales a la Schultze, 263. 

Fresh Strawberry Tarts, 1117. 



dinner. 



Blue Point Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Princesse, 113. 

Olives. Radishes, 292. 

Stuffed Lobster, 367. 
Saddle of Mutton, Londonderry sauce, 668. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 

Coquilles of Chicken, with Mushrooms, 271, 

Fresh Asparagus, 904. [230. 

Punch au Kirsch, 1303. 

Roast Teal Ducks, 859. 

Celery, Mayonnaise Salad, 1042. 

Rum Cake, 1229. 

Gorgonzolla Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, April . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet, with fine Herbs, 451. 
Hamburg Steak, Russian sauce, 526. 
Kidneys, stewed with Madeira, 662. 

Saratoga Potatoes, ion. 
Rice y and Cream a la Croce, 1296. 

Ctmcljeon. 

Gerthins Welsh Rarebit, 296. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Hashed Turkey, with Cream, 804. 
Russian Salad, 1065. 
Custard Pie, noo. 



CHnner. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Brunoise, with Sorrel, 4. 

Radishes, 292. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Shad, vert-pre, 328. 

Sweetbreads a la Catalan, 616. 

New String Beans au blanc, 947. 

Balotine of Lamb au jus, 675. 

French Peas. 

Roast Goose, 808. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Apple Fritters, 1191. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



59 



Tuesday, April . 



33rmkfct0t. 



dinner. 



Eggs a la Reine, 438. 

Codfish Tongues, with black butter, 349. 

Tripe a la Lyonnaise, 548. 

Stewed Turnips, 967. 

Brioche, 1201. 

Ctmcljecm. 

Broiled Trout, maitre d'h&tel, 314. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 
Escalops of Veal a la Duxelle, 569. 

Mashed Potatoes, 998. 
Mille Feuilles, 1223. 



East River Oysters, 298. 

Ox-tail, with Barley, 38. 

Olives. Radishes, 292. 

Bouchees a la Reine, 270. 
Beef Tongue a la Gendarme, 532. 

Tomatoes a la Bock, 1026. 

Haricot of Lamb a la Providence, 701. 

Beans Panaches, 950. 

Roast Squab, 816. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Charlotte Russe, 1261. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, April . 



Breakfast. 



EDinner. 



Plain Omelet, 450. * 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Mutton Chops, with Watercress, 647. 
Julienne Potatoes, 1013. 
Brioches Fluttes, 1204. 



Cuncljeon. 



Smelts, with White Wine, 342. 

Hamburg Steak, Russian sauce, 526. 

Cauliflower, Hollandaise, 925. 

Madeleine, 1226. 



Clams, 300. 
Jardiniere, 28. 
Tomatoes, 288. Olives. 

Bass en Matelote, 332. 
Roast Ham, Champagne sauce, 723. 

Stewed Corn, 964. 

Antelope Chops, Port Wine sauce, 891. 
Stuffed Green Peppers, 975. 

Roast Beef, 527 . 
Barbe de Capucine Salad, 1038. 

Vanilla Ice-cream, 1271. 

Petites Bouchees des Dames, 1237. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday, April 



Breakfast. 

Eggs a 1'Aurore, 444. 

Broiled Salt Mackerel, 329. 

Hashed Beef au Gratin, 529. 

Fried Onions, 969. 

Rice and Milk, 1177. 

Cuncljecm. 

Broiled Shad's Roe, with bacon, 402. 

Lamb Steaks a 1'Americaine, 718. 

Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. 

Home-made Cake, 1220. 



Dinner. 



Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Renaissance, 115. 

Radishes, 292. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

White Perch, Tartare sauce, 353, 207. 

Curry of Lamb a 1'Indienne, 677 

Turnips, with gravy, 967. 

Chicken Vol-au-vent a la Financiere, 810. 

Spring Lamb, Mint sauce, 1361. 169. 

Dandelion Salad, 1049. 

Apples Meringuees, 1248. 

Imported Brie Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



6o 



THE TABLE. 



Friday, April . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs a la Bennett, 447. 

Picked-up Codfish, 346. 

Sheep's Feet a la Poulette, 654. 

Spaghetti a 1'Italienne, 960. 

Stewed Prunes, 1330. 



Ctmdji 



)eon. 

Gromesquis a la Reine, 765. 

Trout, Ravigote butter, 147. 

Minced Tenderloin a la Portugaise, 501. 

Fried Egg-plant, 907. 

Rhubarb Pie, 1085. 



inner. 



Oysters, 298. 
Gumbo of Frogs, 23. 
Olives. Tomatoes, 2? 

Bass a la Bdarnaise, 353. 

Sweetbreads au Salpicon, 605. 

Pigeons en compote, 822. 

Sorrel, with gravy, 974. 

Roast Turkey, 800. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Almond Cake, glace, 1208. 

Coffee. 1349. 



Saturday, April . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs a la Suisse, 441. 
Broiled Boned Smelts, maitre d'hotel, 355, 

Lamb Steak, 718. 

Potatoes Sautees au beurre, 994. 

Milan Cake, 1228. 

Cuncljeon. 

Stuffed Deviled Crabs, 370. 

Veal Stew a la Marengo, 624. 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Maraschino Jelly, 1319. 



SHnner. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 
i45 Julienne, 27. 

Sardines, 283. Cucumbers, 289. 

Red-snapper, Egg sauce, 352, 161. 
Tenderloin of Beef a la Cheron, 504. 

Oyster-plant a la Poulette, 1019. 

Salmi of Snipe k la Moderne, 870. 

Spinach, maitre d'hotel, 942. 

Roast Mutton, 585. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Lemon Pudding, 1157. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, April . 



Breakfast. 



Chicken Liver Omelet, 464. 

Broiled Shad's Roe, maitre d'h&tel, 402. 

Sausages a 1'Italienne, 737. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 

Creme en Mousse au Cafe, 1253. 



Cundjeon. 



Long Island Smelts au Gratin, 355. 

Tripe a la Bordelaise, 544. 

Spaghetti Napolitaine, 959. 

Timbales Lagardere, 809. 

Pineapple Tarts, 1115. 



?D inner. 



Blue Point Oysters, 298. 

Chicken a la Piemontaise, 63. 

Celery, 290. Radishes, 292. 

Boiled Salmon, Oyster sauce, 303. 
Escalops of Sweetbreads a la Richelieu, 574. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

Chicken Saute a 1'Hongroise, 772. 

Green Peas a 1'Anglaise, 978. 

Romaine Punch, 1304. 

Roast Grass Plover, 865. 

Lettuce, Mayonnaise salad, 1042, 1057. 

Strawberry Shortcake, 1214. 

Strachino Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



61 



Monday, April 



Breakfast. 



Scrambled Eggs, with chicory, 409. 

Broiled Lamb Fries, Tomato sauce, 673. 

Beefsteak, with watercress, 524. 

Potatoes, maitre d'h6tel, 985. 

Strawberries and Cream. 

Cnncljeon. 

Codfish a I'Hollandaise, 317. 
Veal Cutlets, Pagasqui, 560. 

Carrots and Cream, 927. 

Cauliflower Salad, 1040. 
Raspberry Tarts, 1118. 



?D tuner. 

Little Neck Clams, 300. 
Potage k la McDonald, 95. 

Mortadella, 287. 

Bluefish au Gratin, 319. 

Turkey Legs a la Diable, 766. 

Potatoes a I'Hollandaise, 999. 

Lamb Chops, maison d'or, 683. 

String Beans a 1'Anglaise, 948. 

Snipe sur Canape, 868. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Stewed Peaches, 1334. 

Bitter Almond Macaroons, 1209. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday, April . 



Breakfast. 



JDtnner. 



Omelet a 1'Espagnole, 472. 

Broiled Bluefish, maitre d'hotel, 329. 

Brochettes of Lamb a la Dumas, 674. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Stewed Green-gages, 1336. 



Ctmcljeon. 



. Oysters a la Baltimore, 388. 
Beefsteak Pie a 1'Americaine, 488. 
Fried Egg-plant, 907. 
Rum Omelet, 476. 



Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Pure, 100. 

Anchovies, 284. Radishes, 292. 

Broiled Pompano, 329. 

Potatoes, Windsor, 1008. 

Chicken Croquettes, with mushrooms, 276. 

Saddle of Venison, Currant Jelly sauce, 878. 

Fresh Asparagus, 904. 
Roast Leg of Mutton, 648. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Cold Maraschino Pudding, 1134. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, April . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs a la Meyerbeer, 437. 

Fried White Perch, Colbert sauce, 301, 190. 

Broiled Calf s Liver and Bacon, 584. 

Potatoes Lyonnaise, 991. 

Sherry Wine Jelly, 1318. 



Cundjeon. 



Canape Lorenzo, 391. 

Broiled Beefsteak, Marrow sauce, 493. 

Spaghetti au Gratin, 961. 

Suedoise Salad, 1069. 

Strawberry Pie, 1095. 



JDtnner. 

Massachusetts Bay Oysters, 298. 

Mutton a TEcossaise, 31. 

Radishes, 292. Olives. 

Fresh Mackerel, St. Nazaire, 329 236. 

Mignons Filets a la Lorillard, 1364. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 
Supreme of Chicken a la Toulouse, 786. 

New String Beans, 945. 

Brochette of Reed-birds, with Bacon, 877, 754. 

Barbe de Capucine Salad, 1038. 

Coffee Ice-cream, 1273. 

Galette, 1221. 

Coffee, 1349. 



62 THE TABLE. 



Thursday, April . 

Breakfast. Pnner. 

Ham Omelet, 462. ^ Linn Haven Oysters, 298 . 

Fried Whitebait, 301. Consomme d'Orleans, 1 10. 

Minced Veal a la Catalan, 575. Tomatoes, 288. Olives. 

Stewed Carrots and Cream, 927. North River Shad, maitre d'h6tel, 326. 

Strawberries and Cream. Cucumber Salad, 289. 

Haricot of Lamb a la Providence, 701. 
Tl Balotine o'f Squab al'Italienne, 818. 

Fresh Peas, 978. 

Scallops Brestoise, 392. Roast Beef, 527. 

Pork and Beans, 752. Dandelion Salad, with eggs, 1049. 

Crao Salad, 1047. Apples Meringuees, 1248. 

Rice Cake a la Mazzini, 1230. Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, April . 

Breakfast. JBurner. 

Lobster Omelet, 454. Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Broiled Fresh Mackerel, maitre d'hdtel, 329. Cream of Asparagus, 70. 

Lamb Mignons, Madeira sauce, 1360, 185. Celery, 290. Mortadella, 287. 

Sweet Potatoes, stewed, 995. Oyster Patties, 387. 

Brioches Fluttes, 1204. Roast Ham, with sweet corn, 724. 

4T**t r U o Spinach, with eggs, 943. 

jLttnCljeOn. Breast of Lamb) j ar diniere, 702. 

Kingfish, with sorrel, 327. Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Blanquette of Veal, with nouilles, 552. Roast Turkey, 800. 

Potatoes, Hollandaise, 999. Doucette Salad, 1052. 

Lobster Salad, 1061. Baba, with rum, 1217. 

Baked Apples, 1124. Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, April . 

Breakfast. dinner. 

Eggs a la Tripe, 419. Keyport Oysters, 298. 

Mutton Hash a la Zingara, 652. Chicken Hollandaise, 64. 

Black Sausage, with mashed potatoes, 719. Radishes, 292. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Rice a la Croce, 1296. Fillets of Bass, with White Wine, 342. 

Sweetbreads a la Montglas, 615. 

String beans, 945. 
Boiled Turkey, Oyster sauce, 797. 

Lobster en Brochette, 361. Stuffed Green Peppers, 975. 

Porterhouse Steak, 524. Roast Beef, 527. 

Carrots and Cream, 927. Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Maccaroni Croquettes, 279. Nelson Pudding, 1155. 

Mille Feuilles, 1223. Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



Sunday ', April . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet a la Vanderbilt, 471. 

Boiled Skate, black butter, 325, 159. 

Calf s Feet, sauce piquante, 599. 

Stewed Potatoes, 995. 
hipped Cream a la Vanille, 1254. 



Cuncljeott. 



Salmon, with Anchovy butter, 303, 146. 
Braised Beef a 1' Orsini, 481. 

Spinach, with Eggs, 940. 

Timbales a la Schultze, 263. 

Mince Pie, 1082. 



SHitner. 



Mill Pond Oysters, 298. 

Potage of Rice a la Maintenon, 98. 

Radishes, 292. Olives. 

Broiled Trout, maitre d'hctel, 314. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 
Breast of Lamb, Jardiniere, 702. 
Chicken Fricasse a la Reine, 780. 

Fresh Green Peas, 978. 
Punch a la Cardinal, 1306. 

Snipe sur Canape, 868. 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad, 1060. 

St. Honore a la Rose Delmonico, 1212. 

Roquefort Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, April -. 



Breakfast. 



SDtmter. 



Oatmeal. Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Eggs a 1'Alsacienne, 443. Consomme Patti, 126. 

Broiled Veal Cutlets, sauce piquante, 564, 203. Tomatoes, 288. Olives. 



Tripe a la Creole, 545. 

Potatoes maitre d'hotel, 985. 

Stewed Pears, 1333. 

Cunctyeon. 

Golden Buck, Welsh Rarebit, 293. 
Beefsteak Pie, a PAnglaise, 487. 

Anchovy Salad, 1037. 
Vermicelli Pudding, 1142. 



Lobster Croquettes, sauce Colbert, 365. 
Saddle of Mutton, Poivrade sauce, 667. 

Sorrel au gras, 974. 

Salmi of Snipe a la Walter Scott, 856. 

Roast Mushrooms on Toast, 916. 

Roast Reed-birds, 877. 

Tomato Salad, Mayonnaise, 1071. 

Omelet Soufflee, 474. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday, April 



Breakfast. 



JBinner. 



Omelet, with Green Peas, 459. Doxie Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Lobster Cutlets, Victoria, 366. Clear Green Turtle, 18. 

Breaded Mutton Chops, Tomato sauce, 643, 205 Thon, 282. Radishes, 292. 



Fried Egg-plant, 907. 
Apples, with Rice, Meringuees, 1169. 



Citnclji 



jecm. 

Broiled Oysters on Toast, 382. 
Mignons Filets, marinaded, Russian sauce, 511. 

Potatoes en paille, 1014. 

Stewed Artichoke Bottoms, 897. 

Pear Pie, open, 1088. 



Shad, vert-pre, 328. 

Curry of Lamb a la Creole, 678. 

Balotine of Squab, a PItalienne, 818. 

Fresh Asparagus, Hollandaise, 904. 

Roast Sirloin of Beef, 527. 

Dandelion Salad, 1048. 

Tutti Frutti, 1293. 

English Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



6 4 



THE TABLE. 



Wednesday, April . 



Breakfast. 



Poached Eggs on Toast, 404. 

Broiled Kingfish, maitre d'hotel, 329. 

Stewed Chicken Livers, with Madeira 767. 

Potatoes a la Rice, 1007. 

Stewed Apples, 1332. 

Cuncl)eon. 

Sheep's-head a la Creole, 339. 
Calfs Head a la Cavour, 638. 

French Peas. 

Beef Salad, 1039. 

Strawberry Tarts, 1117. 



Dinner. 

Cherry-stone Oysters, 298. 
Menestra, 36. 



Olives. 



Caviare, 281. 
Bass a 1? Chambord, 343. 
Lamb Chops, maison d'or, 683. 

Beans Panaches, 950. 
Antelope Steak, puree of Chestnuts, 882. 

Spinach, 940. 

Roast Ptarmigan sur Canape, 862. 

Lettuce, Mayonnaise Salad, 1042. 

Plum Pudding, 1163. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday, April . 



Breakfast. 



Sausage Omelet, 465. 

Scallops, Tomato sauce, 392, 203. 

Mignons Filets, with Anchovy butter, 509, 146. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 
Strawberries and Cream. 



Cxtnctjeon. 



Broiled Trout, with fine Herbs, 315. 

Chicken Croquettes a 1'Ecarlate, 760. 

Spaghetti, with Cream, 954. 

Savarin, 1197. 



SDbtner. 

Oak Island Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Tapioca, 104. 

Sardines, 283. Radishes, 292. 

Thnbales a 1'Ecossaise, 261. 
Shoulder of Lamb, Rouennaise, 698. 

Risotto, 1017. 

Coquilles of Sweetbreads a la Reine, 623. 

Roast Squabs, with Watercress, 816. 

Barbe de Capucine Salad, 1038. 

Banana Ice-cream, 1^77. 

Lady-fingers, 1231. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, April . 



Breakfast. 

Scrambled Eggs, with mushrooms, 407. 

Oysters en brochette, with Bacon, 385. 

Sausages a la Gastronome, 740. 

Macaroni, with Cheese, 956. 

Preserved Cherries, 1347. 



Ctmdjeon. 



Lobster a la Diable, 364. 

Stewed Mutton, Portugaise, 658. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 

Iced Timbale of Rice, 1175. 



JDirmer. 

Shrewsbury Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Artichokes, 72. 

Radishes, 292. Celery, 290. 

Pompano au Gratin, 319. 

Tenderloin Pique a la Sevigne, 520. 

Broiled Spring Chickens, 756. 

Broiled Mushrooms, 916. 

Roast Teal Ducks, 859. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Apple Cake, 1211. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



Saturday ', April . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs a la Proven9ale, 422. 

Fried Frost-fish, 301. 

Beefsteak k la Moe'lle, 493. 

Broiled Tomatoes, 1025. 

French Pancake, with Jelly, 1187. 

Citncljeon. 

Broiled Shad, maitre d'hotel, 326. 
Blanquette of Veal, with Peas, 551. 

Tomatoes a la Marseillaise, 1029. 

Boiled Apple Dumplings, 1127. 



SHnner. 



Olives. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 
Puree Conde, 48. 



Thon, 282. 



Smelts, Tartare sauce, 353, 207. 
Amourettes of Lamb, Tomato sauce, 673, 

String Beans, 948. 

Salmi of Ptarmigan, Chasseur, 864. 

Asparagus, sauce Hollandaise, 904. 

Roast Loin of Veal, 585. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Pudding a la U. S. Grant, 1159. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, April . 



Breakfast. 



Kidney Omelet, 463. 
Shad, White Wine sauce, 342. 
Veal Cutlets a la Milanaise, 563. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 
Creme en Mousse au Maraschino, 1257. 



Cuncljeon. 



Salmon a la Regence, 305. 

Squabs a la Chipolata, 821. 

Stewed Okras a la Creole, 1031. 

Salad a 1'Italienne, 1036. 

Charlotte Russe, 1261. 



S) inner. 



Blue Point Oysters, 298. 

Chicken a la Richmond, 62. 

Radishes, 292. Olives. 

Timbales of Nouilles a la Genoise, 262. 
Spring Lamb Chops, Colbert sauce, 647, 190. 

Green Peas, 980. 

Broiled Tenderloin a la Trianon, 507. 

Asparagus a la Tessinoise, 906. 

Champagne Punch, 1307. 

Roast Capon, 755. 

Lettuce, French dressing, 1070. 

Strawberry Shortcake, 1214. 

Gorgonzolla Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, April . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs a la Bechamel, 416. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Brochettes of Lamb a la Dumas, 674. 

Mashed Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. 

Rice and Milk, 1177. 

Cnncljeon. 

Stuffed Oysters a la Mali, 386. 

Roulade of Beef a PEcarlate, 539. 

Potatoes Hollandaise, 999. 

Tongue Salad, 1056. 

Cranberry Pie, 1095. 



dinner. 



Prince's Bay Oysters, 298. 

Paysanne, 53. 

Radishes, 292. Anchovies, 284. 

Bass, sauce Hollandaise, 309, 160. 
Calf s Brains, sauce Tartare, 559. 

Stewed Corn, 964. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton, Caper sauce, 651. 

Spinach au Croutons, 943. 

Roast Ptarmigan, 862. 

Dandelion Salad, 1049. 

Baba, 1216. 

Coffee, 1349. 



66 



THE TABLE. 



Tuesday, April . 



Breakfast. 

Omelet; with fine Herbs, 451. 

Broiled Pickerel, butter sauce, 329, 155. 

Hashed Chicken en Bordure, 805. 

Stewed Beets, 911. 

Corn Fritters, 965. 

Citnctyeon. 

Canape Lorenzo, 391. 
Minced Veal a la Catalan, 575. 

Beans Panaches, 950. 

Bermuda Potato Salad, 1073. 

Allumettes, 1205. 



JDinner. 



Clams, 300. 

Tomato a 1'Andalouse, 58. 
Olives. Green Peppers. 

Trout a la Chambord, 313. 

Sirloin Pique a la Duchesse, 516. 

Stuffed Tomatoes a la Reine, 1024. 

Stewed Antelope a la Frangaise, 887. 

Artichokes a la Duxelle, 898. 
Roast Turkey, cranberry sauce, 800, 1329. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Meringues Glacees, 1301. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday \ May . 



Breakfast. 



dinner. 



Eggs a la Bonne Femme, 432. 

Porgies a la Horly, 321. 

Pig's Feet, sauce Robert, 728. 

Mashed Potatoes, a 1'Hollandaise, 999. 

Blackberries and Cream. 



Cuncljeon. 



Oysters en Brochette au Petit Sale, 383. 

Stewed Lamb, with Flageolets, 707. 

Tongue Salad, 1056. 

Peach Tarts, 1106. 



Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Barley, 77. 

Olives. Caviare, 281. 

Bass en Matelote, 332. 

Beef-tongue, Napolitaine, 534. 

Artichokes, Barigoul, 897. 

Squabs en Crapaudine, 819. 

New String Beans, 948. 

Roast Mutton, 585. 

Dandelion Salad, 1049. 

Cream Renversee, 1252. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday, May . 



Breakfast. 

Tomato Omelet, 456. 

Broiled Kingfish, 329. 

Lamb Chops au Petit Sale, 682, 754. 

Potatoes Julienne, 1013. 

Rice Cake, 1222. 

Cuncljeon. 

Stuffed Deviled Clams, 376. 

Veal Cutlets en Papillotes, 566. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Herring Salad, 1074. 

Mille Feuilles, 1323. 



Dinner. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Consomme Diplomate, 93. 

Radishes, 292. Olives. 

Kennebec Salmon, Lobster sauce, 303, 158. 
Tenderloin of Beef, Pique a la Portugaise, 517. 

Potatoes Duchesse, 1006. 

Chicken Saute a la Ranhofer, 1363. 

Asparagus, sauce Hollandaise, 904. 

Roast Ptarmigan, 862. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Cabinet Pudding, 1164. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



6 7 



Friday, May . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs a la Bourguignonne, 411. 
Blackfish aux fines Herbes, 331. 
Lamb Kidneys, with Bacon, 713. 

Baked Potatoes. 
Wheat Cakes, 1184. 

Ctmdjeon. 

Sole au Gratin, 319. 
Beefsteak Pie a 1'Anglaise, 487. 

Crab Salad, 1047. 
French Pudding a la Delmonico, 1139. 



Dinner. 



Kirtig's Oysters, 298. 

Busecca Milanaise, 7. 

Sardines, 283. Radishes, 592. 

Frogs a la Poulette, 399. 
Brisotin of Veal, Poivrade sauce, 554, 194. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. 
Chicken a la Maryland, 785. 

Lima Beans, 952. 
Roast Teal Ducks, with gravy, 859. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Lemon Ice-cream, 1278. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, May . 



Breakfast. 



Dinner. 



Eggs a la Paysanne, 433. 

Corned Beef Hash, 531. 

Stewed Calf's Liver a 1'Alsacienne, 582. 

Sweet Potatoes Soufflees, 1010. 

Stewed Apricots, 1335. 

Cunctjeon. 

Oysters, a la Mali, 386. 

Ragout of Veal, Marengo, 624. 

String Bean Salad, 1068. 

Strawberry Pie, 1095. 



Clams, 300. 

Croute-au-Pot, n. 

Radishes, 292. Mortadella, 287. 

Shad's Roe, with Bacon, 402. 
Pigeon Cutlets, a la Victoria, 815. 

Green Peas, with Cream, 980. 

Brochette of Lamb, sauce Piquante, 674, 203. 

Artichokes, Florentine, 903. 

Roast Loin of Pork, 751. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Charlottes Panachees, 1300. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, May . 



Breakfast. 



Dinner. 



Eggs a I'lmperatrice, 440. 
Broiled Spanish- mackerel, maitre d'h&tel, 329. Olives. 

Hashed Turkey en Bordure, 805. 

Stewed Lima Beans, with Cream, 952. 

Rice and Cream a la Croce, 1296. 



Cuncljeon. 



Canape Lorenzo, 391. 
Broiled Porterhouse Steak, Anchovy butter, 

524, 146. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 
Cauliflower Salad, 1040; 
Strawberries and Cream. 



Mill Pond Oysters, 298. 
Puree Mongole, 50. 

Radishes, 292. 
Sole Normande, 318. 
Turban of Chicken, a la Cleveland, 791. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

Lamb Chops a la Maintenon, 685. 

Asparagus a la Vinaigrette, 905. 

Punch a la Francaise, 1311, 

Roast Grass Plovers, 865. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Rum Cake, 1299. 

Strawberry Ice-cream, 1274. 

Strachino Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



68 



THE TABLE. 



Monday, May . 



Breakfast. 



Sinner. 



Eggs a la Turque, 439. 

Broiled Bluefish, 329. 

Lamb Steak, sauce Piquante, 717. 

Saratoga Potatoes, ion. 

Buckwheat Cakes, 1183. 

Cunctjeon. 

Coquilles of Chicken a PAnglaise, 271. 

Fricandeau a la Morlaisienne, 579. 

Oyster-plant a la Poulette, 1019. 

Madelebe, 1226. 



Key port Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Celestine, 118. 

Olives. Anchovies, 

Broiled Lobster a la Diable, 364. 

Sirloin Steak, with Marrow, 493. 

Sorrel and Cream, 973. 

Vol-au-Vent a la Financiere, 810. 

Roast Leg of Mutton, 648. 

Salad, Barbe de Capucine, 1038. 

Pineapple Fritters, 1191. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday, May . 



Breakfast. 

Omelet, with Sardines, 468. 

Fried Whitebait, 301. 

Veal Cutlets a la Pagasqui, 560. 

Mashed Potatoes au Gratin, 998. 

Brioche, 1201. 



Sinner. 



und)i 



jeon. 

Frogs broiled, 398. 
Shoulder of Lamb, Jardiniere, 696. 

Fried Onions, 969. 

Tomato, Mayonnaise salad, 1071. 

Lemon Meringue Pie, 1102. 



Little Neck Clams, SCQ. 

Crabs, with Gumbo, 24. 

Watercress, 1072. Sardines, 283. 

Bass & 1'Italienne, 337. 
Beef-tongue a la Gendarme, 532. 

Lima Beans, 952. 

Stewed Chicken, with fresh Tarragon, 774. 
Asparagus, Hollandaise sauce, 904. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Dandelion Salad, 1049. 

Peach Pudding a la Richelieu, 1150. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, May 



Breakfast. 

Eggs au Soleil, 415. 

Broiled Oysters en Brochette, 385. 

Pig's Feet a la Poulette, 731. 

Potatoes en Paille, 1014. 

Strawberries and Cream. 



itnd)con. 



r.oilcd Fresh Mackerel, maitre d'hdtel, 329. 

Veal Cutlets a la'Milanaise, 563. 

Stewed Corn, 964. 

Cherry Tarts, ^m. 



Sinner. 

Parker Bay Oysters, 298. 

Chicken a la Creole, 65. 

Anchovies, 284. Radishes, 292. 

Shad au Gratin, 319. 
Fillet of Beef, larded a 1'Egyptienne, 521. 

Artichokes a la Vinaigrette, 902. 
Croquettes of Game, sauce Perigueux, 833. 

Roast Chicken, 755. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Indian Pudding, 1145. 

Rum Jelly, 1320. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



6g 



Thursday, May . 



Breakfast. 



JDinner. 



Eggs a la Hyde, 448. 

Fried Cod's Tongues, 350. 
Pork Chops, Apple sauce, 748. 
Hashed Potatoes, sautees, 1003. 

Iced Timbale of Rice, 1175. 



feOtt. 

Broiled Soft -shelled Crabs a la Diable, 369. 

Tripe a la Mode de Caen, 547. 

Potatoes Soufflees, 1010. 

Salad Suedoise, 1069. 
Crme en Mousse au Cu^oa, 1259. 



Oak Island Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Vermicelli, 103. 

Radishes, 292. Olives. 

Kingfish, Egg sauce, 329, 161. 
Stewed Kidneys, with cepes, 714. 

Tomatoes a la Bock, 1026. 
Sweetbreads a la Pompadour, 618. 

Spinach, with Eggs, 940. 
Broiled Snipe, with Bacon, 869, 754. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Strawberry Shortcake, 1214. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, May 



Breakfast. 



Eggs a la Valencienne, 421. 

Fresh Mackerel a 1'Italienne, 337. 

Escalops of Veal, with Spinach, 568, 939. 

Fried Potatoes, 993. 
Stewed Prunes a la Dufour, 1330. 



jeott. 

Mussels Mariniere, 378. 
Mutton Chops, Soyer with Potatoes, 647. 

Green Peas, 978. 

Lobster a la Plummer Salad, 1062. 
Cocoanut Pudding, 1147. 



dinner. 



Clams, 300. 

Sorrel, with Asparagus-tops, 41. 

Radishes, 292. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Kennebec Salmon, Russian sauce, 303, 211. 

Braised Beef a la Mode, 479. 

Beans Panaches, 950. 
Croustade of Chicken a la Dreux, 762. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

Saddle of Spring Lamb, 1361. 

Dandelion a la Coutoise, 1051. 

Almond Cake, 1224. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, May . 



Breakfast. 

Omelet Raspail, 467. 

Broiled Pickerel, Anchovy butter, 329. 146. 

Corned Beef Hash au Gratin, 529. 

Potato Balls, 996. 

Milan Cake, 1228. 



Ctmcljeon. 

Crabs a la St. Laurent, 372. 

Calf s-head a la Vinaigrette, 640. 

Stuffed Egg-plant, 909. 

Maraschino Jelly, 1319. 



Dinner. 



Prince's Bay Oysters, 298. 
Chicken, with Leeks, 68. 

Tomatoes, 288. Olives. 

Shad's-roe on Toast, 402. 

Potatoes, Hollandaise, 999. 

Epigrammes of Lamb, Macedoine, 689. 

Spaghetti a 1'Italienne, 960. 

Stuffed Pig's Feet, sauce Madere, 733. 

Green Peas and Bacon, 981. 

Roast Turkey, 800. 

Chicory Salad, 1046. 

Vanilla Ice-cream, 1271. 

Lady- fingers, 1231. 

Coffee, 1349. 



THE TABLE. 



Sunday, May . 



Breakfast. 



dinner. 



Scrambled Eggs, with Truffles, 407. 

Broiled Brook-trout, with Bacon, 314, 754. 

Deviled Spring Lamb Chops. 647. 

Potatoes a 1'Italienne. 990. 
Creme en Mousse au Cafe, 1253. 



Cundjeon. 



Lobster a la Newburg, 359. 

Broiled Spring Chicken, with Bacon, 756, 754. 

Green Peas a la Bourgeoise, 979. 

Salad a la Russe, 1065. 
Pie a la Martha Washington, 1105. 



East River Oysters, 298. 
Cream of Artichokes, 72. 

Radishes, 292. Olives. 

Bluefish, White Wine sauce, 342. 
Mignons Filets a la Parisienne, 514. 

Fresh Asparagus, 904. 
Stewed Chicken a la Parmentier, 773. 

Stuffed Lettuce, 953. 

Punch a la Lorenzo Delmonico,' 1303. 

Bay Plovers, Roasted, 865. 

Lettuce Salad, 1058. 

Diplomatic Pudding, glace, 1288. 

Fancy Almond Cakes, 1239. 

Stilton Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, May . 



Breakfast 



dinner. 



Omelet a 1'Espagnole, 472. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Fillet of Pork, sauce Robert, 741, 192. 
Potatoes, Chateau, 1009. 
Blackberries and Cream. 



Cundjeon. 



Fried Soft-shelled Crabs, 368. 

Hashed Mutton a la Zingara, 652. 

String Beans, with cream, 946. 

Charlotte au Cafe, 1262. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Consomme Deslignac, 108. 

Lyons Sausage, 286. Radishes, 292. 

Trout, Shrimp sauce, 311. 
Stewed Chicken Livers au Madere, 767. 

Lima Beans, 952. 

Lamb Chops, Massena, 687. 

Stuffed Green Peppers, 975. 

Squabs sur Canape, 816. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Bread Pudding, 1132. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday, May . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs a la Duchesse, 449. 
Shad's Roe, maitre d'h6tel, 402. 
Beefsteak, with Watercress, 524. 

Potatoes a la Hanna, 1012. 
French Pancake, 1186. 



Cundjecm. 



Kingfish, sauce Ravigote, 329. 147. 

Panpiette of Veal a la Faubonne, 592. 

Spaghetti Napolitaine, 959. 

Rum Omelet, 476. 



JD inner. 



Small Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Mock Turtle Soup, 17. 

Olives. Mortadella, 287. 

Fried Sea Bass, sauce Tartare, 301, 207. 

Ragout of Beef a la Dufour, 541. 

Vol-au-Vent a la Reine, 812. 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Leg of Lamb, roasted, 648. 

Salad, Barbe de Capucine, 1038. 

Strawberry and Vanilla Ice-cream, 1274, 1271. 

Camembert Cheese. 

Coffee, 1343. 



MENUS. 



Wednesday, May . 



Breakfast. 



JDinner. 



Oatmeal, with Cream. 

Omelet, with Cheese, 469. 

Broiled Porterhouse Steak au Cresson, 524. 

Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. 

Sherry Wine Jelly, 1318. 



Ctmcljecm. 



Codfish, Shrimp sauce, 352, 178. 

Chicken Hash a la Polonaise, 803. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Sago Pudding, 1140. 



Clams, 300. 
Puree Crecy, 47. 

Tomatoes, 288. Radishes, 292. 

Trout, Genoise sauce, 314, 187. 

Braised Beef a la Flamande, 482. 

Piloff of Chicken a la Creole, 783. 

Fresh Mushrooms on Toast, 916. 

Roast Capon, 755. 

Dandelion Salad, 1049. 

Peaches and Cream. 

Sweet Almond Macaroons, 1210. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday, May . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs a la Bennett, 447. 
Butterfish aux fines Herbes, 331. 

Sausage a 1'Anglaise, 736. 

Potatoes, with Bacon, 989. 
Stewed Prunes a la Dufour, 1330. 



CttttCl)! 



)eon. 

Pompano, with White Wine, 342. 

Spring Lamb Steaks, puree of peas, 716. 

Fried Egg-plant, 907. 

Macedoine Salad, 1063. 

Rhubarb Pie, 1085. 



?Dinner. 

Shrewsbury Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Princesse, 113. 

Watercress, 1072. Olives. 

Shad a la Venitienne, 338. 

Broiled Tenderloin of Beef a la Nivernaise, 505. 

Spaghetti au Gratin, 961. 

Turkey a 1'Anglaise, 795. 

Green Peas, 978. 

Roast Pigeons, 816. 

Doucette Salad, 1054. 

Biscuits Glaces, 1286. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, May . 



Breakfast. 



Oatmeal and Cream. 

Shrimp Omelet, 434. 

Boiled Codfish, Egg sauce, 352, 161. 

Corned-beef Hash, American style, 529. 

Saratoga Potatoes, ion. 

Fresh Cherries. 



Cuncljj 



jeon. 

Shad's Roe, Bearnaise sauce, 402, 166. 

Breast of Veal a la Milanaise, 596. 

Crab Salad, 1047. 

Baked Apples, 1124. 



JDtnner. 



Linn Haven Oysters, 298. 

Chicken a la Turque, 69. 

Celery, 290. Olives. 

Kingfish an Gratin, 319. 

Saddle of Mutton, currant jelly sauce, 666. 

Potatoes a la Hanna, 1012. 

Squabs en Compote, 822. 

Baked Tomatoes, 1028. 

Broiled Reed-birds, with Bacon, 877, 754. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Baba au Rhum, 1217. 

Coffee, 1349. 



THE TABLE. 



Saturday, May . 



Brmkfoat 



!Dinner. 



Eggs au Miroir, 425. 

Fried Whitebait, 301. 

Calf s Liver, Saute a 1'Alsacienne, 582. 

Stewed Potatoes, 995. 

Currant Jam. 



Broiled Soft-shelled Crabs a la Diable, 369. 

Beefsteak Pie, 488. 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Rhubarb Tarts, 1112. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 
Cream of Asparagus, 70. 

Caviare, 281. Radishes, 292. 

Blackfish a la Joinville, 322. 
Veal Cutlets, St. Cloud, 561. 

String Beans, 948. 
Chicken Fncasse a I'Americaine, 781. 

Macaroni, with Cream, 954. 

Hindquarter ot Spring Lamb, Mint Sauce, 1361, 

Watercress Salad, 1072. [169 

Nelson Pudding, 1155. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, May . 



Breakfa0t. 



Omelet a la Vanderbilt, 471. 

Broiled Codfish, with Bacon, 310, 754. 

Lamb Fries, Mustard Sauce, 673, 202. 

Stewed Carrots a la Bechamel, 927, 154. 

Rice and Cream a la Croce, 1296. 



Cream Cheese. 

Scallops Brestoise, 392. 

Brochette of Lamb, with Bacon, 674, 754. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Japanese Salad, 1075. 

Apple Pie, 1083. 



Wmntv. 



Blue Point Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Massena, 102. 

Sardines, 283. Cucumber Salad, 289. 

Radishes, 292. 

Broiled Trout, with Bacon, 314, 754. 
Tenderloin of Beef, Pique a la Provensale, 518. 

Stuffed Egg-plant, 909. 
Coquilles of Sweetbreads aux Champignons, 623. 

Champagne Punch, 1307. 
Roast Rhode Island Turkey, 800. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Strawberry Shortcake, 1214. 

Imported Brie Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, May . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs a la Chipolata, 442. 

Fried Sea-bass, 301. 
Hashed Turkey en Bordure, 805. 

Succotash, 1022. 
Small Brioches, 1202. 

function. 

Stuffed Deviled Crabs, 370. 

Stewed Mutton, Solferino, 656. 

Herring Salad, 1074. 

Vanilla Eclairs, 1245. 



Dinner. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Consomme aux Pates d'ltalie, 103. 

Olives. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Salmon, Genoise Sauce, 306. 

Calf s-head en Tortue, 641. 

Spinach, 940. 

Mignons of Lamb a la Pompadour, 509. . 

Roast Ptarmigan, 862. 

Dandelion Salad, 1048. 

Stewed Prunes a la General Dufour, 1330. 

Pithiviers Cake, 1225. 

Coffee, 1349- 



MENUS. 



73 



Tuesday, May. . 



Breakfast. 



Smoked Beef Omelet, 461. 

Skate, with black Butter, 325, 159. 

Lamb Steak a 1'Americaine, 718. 

Potatoes, maitre d'hotel, 985. 

Rice a 1'Airolo, 1171. 

Citncljeon. 

Oysters a la Baltimore, 388. 

Veal Cutlets en Papillotes, 566. 

String Beans, with Cream, 946. 

Pumpkin Pie, 1099. 



Sinner. 



Small Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Puree Conde, 48. 
Radishes, 292 Watercress. 

Sole a la Toulouse, 354. 
Broiled Tenderloin a la Bearnaise, 492. 

Stuffed Lettuce, 953. 

Croquettes ol Sweetbreads, Cream Sauce, 620, 
Asparagus a la Tessinoise, 906. [181. 
Squabs sur Canape, 816. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Charlottes Panachees, 1300. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, May . 



Breakfast. 



Sinner. 



Boiled Eggs. 
Broiled North River Shad, maitre d'h6tel, 326. 

{stewed Kidneys, with Mushrooms, 714. Tomatoe? 



Clams, 300. 
Cream a I'Allemande, 84. 



Turnips and Cream, 967. 
Stewed Peaches. 1334. 

Ctmdjeon. 

Crabs a 1'Anglaise, 373. 
Stewed Beef a la Turque, 542. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. 

Tomato Mayonnaise, 1071. 

Strawberry Tarts, 1117. 



Olives. 



Lobster a la Bordelaise, 360. 
Grenadins of Veal al'Africaine, 589. 

Succotash, 1022. 
Chicken Saute a la Regence, 777. 

Spinach, with Croutons, 943. 
Roast Tenderloin of Beef au Jus, 516. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Maraschino Pudding, 1134. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday, May . 



Breakfast. 



Sinner. 



Omelet, with Cepes, 460. 

Chicken Halibut, Caper sauce, 309, 651. 

Tripe a la Lyonnaise, 548. 

Potatoes a la Rice, 1007. 

Strawberries and Cream. 



Cnncljcon. 

Clams a la Mariniere, 377. 
Broiled Spring Chicken, 756. 
Green Peas, with Cream, 980. 
Savarin, 1197. 



Linn Raven Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Colbert, 120. 

Caviare, 281. Radishes, 292. 

Trout a la Cambaceres, 312. 
Asparagus a la Vinaigrette, 905. 

Lamb Chops, Soyer, 647. 
Supreme of Chicken a la Rothschild, 790. 
Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Roast Plover, 865. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Vanilla Ice-cream, 1271. 

Petites Bouchees des Dames, 1237. 

Coffee, 1349. 



74 



THE TABLE. 



Friday^ May . 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Scrambled Eggs, with Asparagus-tops, 406. j^ ^^ 

Broiled Pompano, 329. Printanier Grenat, 51. 

Mutton Hash, 653. Oliyes Mortadella, 287. 

Potatoes a la Lyonnaise, 991. K{ngfish k k Wnitienne> 338> 

German Pancake, 1188. Minced Veal h ^ ^^^ ^ 

^' UllC llCO 11 Fresh Mushrooms on Toast, 916. 

Broiled Tenderloin a la Florentine, 506. 

Scallops a la St. Jean, 37 x. Roast chfcken 

Porterhouse Steak au Cresson, 524- Dandelion Salad, 1049. 

Sweet Potatoes a 1'Hollandaise, 999. Onmge puddmg> ^ 

Lobster Salad, 1061. Coffee, 1349. 
Iced Timbale of Rice, 1175- 



Saturday, May . 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Omelet a 1'Espagnole, 472. Keyport Oysters. 298. 

Fried Scallops, Tomato Sauce, 301, 205. Chicken Portugaise, 66. 

Mutton Chops, Bretonne, 644. Olives. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Hashed Potatoes and Cream, 1003. Matelote of Eels a la Normande, 334. 

Fritters a la Vanille, 1192. Mignons Filets, with Marrow, 510. 

Asparagus, sauce Hollandaise, 904. 

n. Chicken Saute a la Bohemienne, 778. 

Mussels a la Poulette, 379. Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

Noix of Veal a la Bourgeoise, 590, 583. Roast Loin of Spring Lamb, 1361. 

Chicken Livers en Brochette au petit Sale, 769. Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Potatoes Soufflees, 1010. Cocoanut Pudding, 1147. 

Boiled Apple Dumplings, 1127. Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, May . 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Poached Eggs on Toast, with Anchovy Butter, Little Neck Clams > 3- 

6 Cream of Chicken, 82. 

Broiled Kingfish, maitre d"n6tel, 329. Sardines ' ^ 8 3' Radishes, 292. 

Hashed Chicken a la Creme, 804. Salmon a ^ Regence^os- 

Creme Renversee, 1252. Roast Tenderloin, P.que a la Duchesse, 516. 

Risotto, 1017. 

Chicken Fillets a la Patti, 789. 

CunCl)COn. Artichokes, Florentine, 903. 

Punch a la Cardinal, 1306. 

Lobster Cutlets, Victoria Sauce, 366. Roast Ptarmigans, 862. 

Chops Soyer, with Potatoes, 647. Lettuce, Mayonnaise, 1042. 

Stuffed Cucumbers, 937. St. Honore a la Rose Delmonico, 1212. 

Chicken Salad, 1044. Roquefort Cheese. 

Strawberries and Cream. Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



75 



Monday, May . 



Breakfast 



Ham Omelet, 462. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Calf s Liver and Bacon, 584. 

Potatoes, maitre d'hotel, 985. 

Sweet Potatoes, Sautees, 995. 

Whipped Cream au Kirsch, 1256. 

Ctmdjeon. 

Welsh Rarebit, Golden Buck, 295. 

Ragout of Mutton aux Pommes, 659. 

Spaghetti a 1'Italienne, 960. 

Frangipani Tarts, 1121. 



?D inner. 



Cherry Stone Oysters, 298. 
Consomme Douglas, 114. 

Tomatoes, 288. Anchovies, 284. 

North River Shad en Matelote, 332. 

Sweetbreads, Soubise, 606. 

Beans Panaches, 950. 
Breast of Lamb, Jardiniere, 702. 

Roast Plovers, 865. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Preserved Plums, 1343. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday, May . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs bi la Tripe, 419. 

Fried Frostfish, 301. 

Pig's Feet, Boston style, 730. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Corn Fritters, 965. 



JDinner. 



Cuncl)i 



jeon. 

Shad's Roe, sauce Hollandaise, 402, 160. 

Minced Beef a la Proven9ale, 500. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. 

String Bean Salad, 1068. 

Apple Meringue Pie, 1103. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Mulligatawney a la Delmonico, 35. 

Caviare, 281. Radishes, 292. 

Fresh Mackerel, Cream Sauce, 329, 181. 

Lamb Chops a la Robinson, 682^ 

Sorrel, with Croutons, 974. 

Chicken Curry a 1'Espagnole, 793. 

Fresh Asparagus, 904. 

Roast Snipe, 868. 

Doucette Salad, 1054. 

Fruit Pudding, 1161. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, May . 



Breakfast. 



HHnner. 



Omelet a la Provengale, 457. 

Fried Porgies, 301. 
Broiled Deviled Mutton Kidneys, 715. 

Fried Potatoes, 993. 
Waffles with Sugar, 1196. 

Cunrljeon. 

Oysters a la Baltimore, 388. 

Chicken Pot-pie, 757. 

Macaroni au Gratin, 955. 

Rice Pudding, 1143. 



Massachusetts Bay Oysters, 298. 

Chicken a la Richmond, 62. 

Olives. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Bass, Lobster Sauce, 352, 158. 

Boiled Turkey, Egg Sauce, 798. 

Spinach, maitre d'hdtel, 942. 
Sweetbreads aux Gourmets, 612. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Roast Fillet of Beef, 516. 

Barbe de Capucine Salad, 1038. 

Omelet Celestine, 477. 

Coffee, 1349. 



7 6 



THE TABLE. 



Thursday, May . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs au Beurre noir, 414. 

Spanish-mackerel, Vert-pre, 328. 

Calf's Head a la Vinaigrette, 640. 

Lima Beans and Cream, 952. 

Blackberries and Cream. 



Cuncljj 



jeon. 

Broiled Trout, Butter sauce, 314. 

Corned Beef with Kale-sprouts, 490. 

Potatoes a PHollandaise, 999. 

Herring Salad, 1074. 

Baba au Rhum, 1217. 



SDinner. 



Small Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Suedoise, 122. 

Mortedella, 287. Radishes, 292. 

Kennebec Salmon a la Regence, 305. 

Fillet of Beef, Broiled a la Trianon, 507. 

Green Peas a 1'Anglaise, 978. 
Chicken Saute a la Marengo, 771. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 
Roast Hind Quarter of Spring Lamb, 1361. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Blackberry Shortcake, 1215. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday ', May . 



Breakfast. 



SHnner. 



Omelet aux Sardines, 468. 

Broiled Bluefish, brown Butter, 329, 159. 

Pig's Feet, St. Hubert, 727. 

Spaghetti a la Italienne, 960. 

Brioche, 1201. 



Cttttcljeon. 



Crabs a la St. Jean, 371. 

Stewed Mutton, Marseillaise, 657. 

Salmon Salad, 1066. 

Custard Pie, noo. 



East River Clams, 300. 

Oyster Soup, 26. 
Olives. Sardines, 283. 

Bass k la Chambord, 343. 

Escalops of Sweetbreads, Richelieu, 574. 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Squabs en Crapaudine, 819. 

String Beans, 948. 

Roast Loin of Veal, 585. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Omelet Soufflee, 474. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, June . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs k la Bourguignonne, 411. 

Haddock, Cream Sauce, 352, 181. 

Lamb en Brochette, Colbert, 674, 190. 

Fried French Potatoes, 993. 

Rice Cake, 1222. 

Ctmdjecn. 

Broiled Stuffed Deviled Crabs, 370. 

Breaded Veal Cutlets, Tojnato sauce, 563. 

Macedoine Salad, 1063. 

Mille Feuilles, 1223. 



Dinner. 



Ox-tail a 1' Ecossaise, 39. 
Tomatoes, 288. Olives. 

Lobster a la Bordelaise, 360. 
Tenderloin of Pork, Sauce piquante, 741,203. 

String Beans, 984. 

Fried Chicken, Cream Sauce, 301, 181. 
Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

Leg of Lamb, 648. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Tapioca Pudding, 1141. 

Mazagran k la Gen. Bugeau, 1391. 



MENUS. 



77 



Sunday, June . 



Breakfast. 



dinner. 



Omelet with fresh Asparagus, 458. 
Veal Kidneys, Broiled and Deviled, 715. 

Broiled Ham, 753. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 

Fresh Cherries. 



tmct)eon. 



Baked Bluefish, 319. 
Hashed Chicken en Bordure, 805. 

Stuffed Egg-plant, 909. 

Timbales a la Schultze, 263. 

Raspberry Pie, 1096. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Cream of Cauliflower, 73. 

Caviare, 281. Radishes, 292. 

Pompano, maitre d'hdtel, 329. 

Potatoes, Chateau, 1009. 
Broiled Tenderloin a la Trianon, 507. 

Broiled Tomatoes, 1025. 
Shells of Sweetbreads a la Dreux, 621. 

Punch a la Lalla Rookh, 1308. 
Roast Turkey, Cranberry Sauce, 800, 1329. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Cabinet Pudding a la Sadi-Carnot, 1164. 

Swiss Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, June . 



Breakfast 



Eggs au Soleil, 415. 

Broiled Black Bass, 329. 

Sausages, with White Wine, 735. 

Hashed Potatoes, 1002. 

Stewed Apricots, 1335. 



Cnnctji 



(eon. 

Stuffed Deviled Clams, 376. 

Corned Beef Hash a la Polonaise, 528. 

Oyster-plant a la Poulette, 1019. 

Tomato, Mayonnaise Salad, 1071. 

Blackberry Tarts, 1119. 



dinner. 



Small Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Napolitaine, 127. 
Anchovies, 284. Radishes, 292. 

Shad a 1'Ecarlate, 326, 247. 
Tenderloin Pique a la Provengale, 518. 

Potatoes en Paille, 1014. 

Veal Cutlets a la Marechale, 562. 

Stuffed Lettuce, 953. 

Roast Squabs, 816. 

Doucette Salad, 1054. 

Omelet au Kirsch, 476. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday, June . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet, with Parsley, 451. 

Broiled Bacon, 754. 

Hashed Lamb a la Polonaise, 700. 

Stewed Carrots and Cream, 927. 

Cream Renversee, 1252. 



unct)i 



(eon. 

Broiled Trout a la maitre d'h6tel, 314. 
Vol-au-Vent a la Financiere, 810. 
Asparagus k la Tessinoise, 906. 
Boiled Apricot Dumplings, 1126. 



dinner. 



Massachusetts Bay Oysters, 298. 

Mock Turtle, 17. 
Lyons Sausage, 286. Olives. 

Bass en Matelote, 332. 

Sweetbreads a la Duxelle, 608. 

Chicken Saute a 1'Hongroise, 772. 

Mushrooms on Toast, 914. 

Roast Loin of Mutton, 585. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Rum Cake, 1229. 

Coffee, 1349. 



7 8 



THE TABLE. 



Wednesday, June . 



Breakfast. 

Fried Eggs, 412. 

Broiled Kingfish, 329. 

Minced Beef a la Provengale, 500. 

Potatoes a la Hanna, 1012. 

Buckwheat Cakes, 1183. 



Cunclji 



jecm. 

Wekh Rarebit, Golden Buck. 295. 

Shad's Roe, with Bacon, 402. 

Stewed Mutton, with Oyster-plant, 703. 

Tomatoes a la Marseillaise, 1029. 

Rhubarb Pie, 1085. 



Dinner. 



Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Sorrel, Fermiere, 81. 
Sardines, 283. Radishes, 292. 

Salmon Croquettes, 364. 
Broiled Tenderloin of Beef, Nivernaise, 505. 

Turnips, with Gravy, 967. 
Mutton Chops k la Clichy, 684. 
Asparagus a la Vinaigrette, 905. 

Roast Chicken, 755. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Plombiere a la Hamilton, 1370. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday ', June . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet Regence, 470. 

Picked-up Codfish, 346. 

Lamb Steak, with Bacon, 716, 754. 

Potato Balls, 996. 

Brioches, 1201. 



tmct)ecm. 



Trout, Ravigote Sauce, 314, 147. 

Tendron of Veal, Morlaisienne, 635. 

Beef Salad, 1039. 

Peach Pie, 1092. 



flHnner. 

Oak Island Oysters, 298. 

Pot-au-Feu, 54. 

Watercress, 1072. Anchovies, 284. 

Crawfish a la Bordelaise, 360. 

Sirloin a la Stanley, 491, 248. 

String Beans a la Bretonne, 949. 

Turban of Chicken a la Cleveland, 791. 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Roast Plover, 865. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Charlottes Panachees, 1300. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, June . 



Breakfast 

Eggs a la Polonaise, 445. 

Broiled Whitebait, 329. 

Beef Tongue, sauce Piquante, 533. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Kirsch Jelly, 1319. 

Ctmcljeott. 

Stuffed Deviled Crabs, 370. 

Beefsteak Pie a 1'Americaine, 488. 

Spinach, with Gravy, 943. 

Shrimp Salad, 1067. 
Frangipani Tarts, 1121. 



SHnner. 

Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Bouille-a-Baisse, i. 
Celery, 290. Olives. 

Bass, Egg Sauce, 352, 161. 
Civet of Antelope a la Frangaise, 887. 

Spaghetti au Gratin, 961. 
Lamb Chops, maison d'or, 961. 

Green Peas, 978. 

Roasted Squabs, 816. 

Barbe de Capucine Salad, 1038. 

Peach Pudding a la Richelieu, 1150. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



79 



Saturday, June . 



Breakfast. 



Hominy and Cream, 1034. 

Chicken Liver Omelet, 464. 

Mutton Chops, with Bacon, 647, 754. 

Saratoga Potatoes, ion. 

Rice a la Turque, 1178. 



Cuncljeon 



Dinner. 



Frogs' Legs a la Geo. Merrill, 1372. 

Stuffed Breast of Veal, Puree of Peas, 596, 49. 

Asparagus a la Tessinoise, 906. 

Cranberry Pie, 1104. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Brunoise, with Rice, 3. 

Radishes, 292. Sardines, 283. 

Salmon, Oyster Sauce, 303. 
Tenderloin of Beef, larded a la Portugaise, 517. 

Sorrel, with Eggs, 974. 
Salmi of Ptarmigan a la Moderne, 870. 

Lima Beans, 952. 
Roast Leg of Spring Lamb, 648. 

Lettuce Salad, 1058. 

Apple Charlotte, 1167. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, June . 



Breakfast. 



Scrambled Eggs, with Truffles, 407. 

Fried Soles, Tartare Sauce, 320, 207. 

Hashed Turkey a la Creme, 804. 

Broiled Egg-plant, 908, 

Stewed Prunes, 1330. 



Cunctyeon. 



Codfish a 1'Hollandaise, 317. 

Broiled Turkey Legs a la Diable, 766. 

Okras, Sautes a la Creole, 1031. 

Crab Salad, 1047. 
Creme en Mousse au Cognac, 1258. 



Dinner. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Mulligatawney, 34. 

Caviare, 28. Radishes, 292. 

Broiled Spanish-mackerel, maitre d'hdtel, 329. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 
Curry of Lamb, with Asparagus-tops, 676. 

Sweetbreads a la Catalan, 616. 
Hashed Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. 

Roman Punch, 1304. 

Roast Tenderloin of Beef, 516. 

Tomato, Mayonnaise Salad, 1071. 

Strawberry Shortcake, 1214. 

Camembert Cheese. 
Mazagran a la Gen. Dufour, 1392. 



Monday, June . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet aux fines Herbes, 451. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Brochette of Lamb a la Dumas, 674. 
Succotash, 1022. 
Milan Cake, 1228. 



Cunctyeon. 



Pickerel, with White Wine, 342. 

Haricot of Lamb a la Providence, yoi. 

Stewed Corn, 964. 

Herring Salad, 1074. 

Maraschino Jelly, 1319. 



Dinner. 

East River Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Rachel, 123. 

Thon, 282. Radishes, 292. 

Broiled Pompano, 329. 

Potatoes, Windsor, 1008. 

Supreme of Chicken a la Bayard, 787. 

Green Peas a 1'Anglaise, 978. 

Beefsteak a la Bordelaise, 491. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 

Roast Loin of Veal, 585. 

Dandelion Salad, 1049. 

Vermicelli Pudding, 1 142. 

Coffee, 1349. 



8o THE 7* ABLE. 



Tuesday, June . 

Breakfast. SHnner. 

Eggs a la Livingstone, 410. Mill Pond Oysters, 298. 

Broiled Mutton Kidneys, with Bacon, 661. Mikado, 32. 

Potatoes, Saratoga, ion. Tomatoes, 288. Radishes, 292 

Creme en Mousse au Cafe, 1253. Fresh Mackerel, St. Nazaire, 329, 236. 

/r I Tenderloin of Beef, Pique a la Trianon, 507. 

iuncljeott. Stuffed PepperS( 975 . 

Mussels a la Mariniere, 378. Sweetbreads a la Montglas, 615. 

Hashed Turkey en Bordure, 805. Roast Squab, 816. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. Chicory Salad. 1045. 

Asparagus Salad, 905. Baked Apple Dumplinys, 1122. 

Raspberry Tarts, in 8. Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, June . 

Breakfast. dinner. 

Tomato Omelet? 456. Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Shad, maitre d'h6tel, 326. Beef a 1'Anglaise, 5. 

Pig's Feet a la Boston, 730. Lyons Sausage, 206. Radishes, 292. 

Potatoes Julienne, 1013. Bluefish a la Toulouse, 354. 

Raspberries and Cream. Minced Beef a la Proven^ale, 500. 

Fricasse of Chicken, with Curry, 792. 
Asparagus, sauce Hollandaise, 904. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Scallops Brestoise, 392. Romaine Salad, 1064, 

Beefsteak Pie a 1'Americaine, 488. Peach Water-ice, 1284. 

String Beans, 947. Biscuits a la Cuillere, 1231. 

Pineapple Pie, 1087. Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday, June . 

Breakfast. dinner. 

Omelet, with Peas, 4 59- Parker B . ay y stcrs 2 9 8 - 

Porterhouse Steak, with Watercress, 524. Julienne, 27. 

Potatoes, Lyonnaise, 99 1. Watercress, 1072. Anchovies. 284. 

French Pancake, 1 186. Clam Patties, 387. 

Mignons Filets a la Bohemienne, 513. 

Succotash, 1022. 

U. Chicken K )a Ranhofer, 1363. 

Artichokes li la Florentine, 90;. 

Shad, with Sorrel, 327. Roast Reed-birds, 877. 

Mutton Chops, Soyer, 647. Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. Riz au Lait d'Amandes, 1170. 

Jam Omelet, 475. Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



Friday, June . 



Breakfast. 



Lobster Omelet, 454. 

Bluefish au Gratin, 319. 

Minced Beef a la Catalan, 502. 

Potatoes a la Rice, 1007. 

Preserved Apples, 1342. 



HHmter. 



Whitebait, 301. 

Green Peas, 978. 

Porterhouse Steak, Fried Onions, 524, 969. 

Potato Salad, 1073. 
Rice and Cream a la Croce, 1296. 



Doxie Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Bisque of Crab, 9. 
Thon, 282. Radishes, 292. 

Kingfish, with White Wine, 342. 
Stewed Mutton, with Potatoes, 659. 

Asparagus a la Tessinoise, 906. 

Sa l mi O f pi geon k la Walter Scott, 856. 

Roast Loin of Veal, 585. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Pineapple Water-ice, 1283. 

Sweet Almond Macaroons, 1210. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, June . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet Espagnole, 472. 

Skate, with black Butter, 325, 159. 

Calfs Liver and Bacon, 584. 

Broiled Potatoes, 983. 

Fresh Grapes. 



Broiled Porgies a la Bearnaise, 353. 

Sausages a la Gastronome, 740. 

String Bean Salad, 1068. 

Rhubarb Pie, 1085. 



Dinner. 

Linn Haven Oysters, 298. 

Consomme a 1'Africaine, 116. 

Caviare, 28. Celery, 290. 

Lobster a la Newburg, 359. 

Marinated Tenderloin of Beef, Russian Sauce, 

^^^ 

Mushrooms on Toast, 916. 
Salmi of Duck, with Olives, 827. 

Fried Egg-plant, 907. 
Roast Spring Lamb, 1361. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Cold Maraschino Pudding, 1134. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, June . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs a 1'Imperatrice, 440. 

Broiled Pompano, 329. 
Hamburg Steak, Colbert, 526, 190. 

Mashed Potatoes, 998. 
Crme en Mousse au Cafe, 1253. 



Fresh Mackerel, fine Herbs, 331. 
Stewed Veal, Marengo, 624. 

Stuffed Lettuce, 953. 
Tomato, Mayonnaise Salad, 1071. 
Stewed Prunes a la General Dufour, 1330. 
6 



Dinner. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Mutton a 1'Ecossaise, 31. 

Radishes, 292. w Anchovies, 284. 

Salmon, en Papillotes, 302. 

Saddle of Mutton, Sevigne, 669. 

Sweetbreads, with Asparagus-tops, 602, 676. 

Punch a la Lorenzo Delmonico, 1303. 

Roast Goose, 808. 
Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Tutti-frutti, 1293. 

Almond Biscuits, 1235. 

Mazagran a la General Bugeau, 1391. 



82 



THE TABLE. 



Monday, June . 



Breakfast 



Kidney Omelet, 463. 

Hashed Beef a la Portugaise, 501. 

Potatoes, Hollandaise, 999. 

Fresh Red Currants. 



Cttncheon. 



Soft Clams a la Newburg, 390. 

Veal Cutlets a la Marechale, 562. 

String Beans, with Cream, 946. 

Peach Pie, 1092. 



SDinner. 



Rockaway Oysters, 298. 
Consomme d'Orleans, no. 

Mortadella, 287. Radishes, 292. 

Blackfish, Vert-pre, 328. 

Potatoes, Duchesse, 1006. 

Hashed Turkey, with Cream, 804. 

Risotto, x=i 7 . 

Lamb Chops a la Massena, 687. 

Artichokes, Florentin, 903. 

Roast Capon> 755 . 

Lettuce Salad, 1058. 

Lemon Water-ice, 1279. 

CoffeCj I349 



Tuesday, June . 



Breakfaat. 



Poached Eggs on Toast, Anchovy Butter, 404, 

146. 

Porgies, maitre d'h&tel, 329. 
Minced Tenderloin al'Italienne, 500, 188. 

Potatoes, Lyonnaise, 991. 
Whipped Cream a la Vanille, 1254. 



Sheep's-head k la Creole, 339. 

Mutton Steaks a la Colbert, 716, 190 

Spaghetti a 1'Italienne, 960. 

Red Currant Pie, 1090. 



Sinner. 

Clams, 300. 

Consomme Paysanne, 53. 

Tomatoes, 288. Olives. 

Frogs a la Bordelaise, 401, 243. 
Croquettes of Lamb, Tomato Sauce, 679, 205. 

Beans Panaches, 950. 

Stewed Chicken a la Maryland, 785. 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Roast Beef, 527. 
Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Strawberry and Vanilla Ice-cream, 1274, 1271. 
Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, June . 



Breakfast. 



Pinner. 



Cheese Omelet, 469. 
Boiled Sea-bass, Tomato sauce, 352, 205. 

Sausages a 1'Anglaise, 736. 

Oyster-plant Saute au Beurre, 1018. 

Rice and Apples, 1169. 



Ctmcl) 



Broiled Brook-trout, 314. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 
Stewed Mutton with Potatoes, 659. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. 

Lamb-tongue Salad, 1056. 

Raspberry Tarts, 1118. 



Shrewsbury Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Asparagus, 70. 

Sardines, 283. Celery, 290. 

Porgies with fine Herbs, 315. 
Tenderloin of Beef Marinated, sauce Poivrade, 

5". 194- 

Sorrel, with Eggs, 974. 
Pigeon Cutlets a la Victoria, 815. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Roast Rhode Island Turkey, 800. 

Doucette Salad, 1054. 

Apricot Pudding, 1151. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



Thursday, June . 



Breakfast. 



dinner. 



Scrambled Eggs, with Mushrooms, 408. 

Broiled, Deviled Soft-shelled Crabs, 370. 

Stewed Mutton Kidneys, Madeira Wine, 662. 

Fried Potatoes a la Franchise, 993. 

Raspberries and Cream. 

Cttttdjecm. 

Lobster a la Diable, 364. 

Pork Chops, sauce Robert, 746. 

Spaghetti au Gratin, 961. 

Custard Pie, uoo. 



Clams, 300. 

Chicken a 1'Hollandaise, 64. 
Olives. Celery, 290. 

Pompano au Gratin, 319. 

Broiled Sirloin, with Marrow, 493. 

Spinach, maitre d'h6tel, 942. 

Duckling a rAmericaine, 823. 

String Beans, with Cream, 946. 

Roast Spring Lamb, 1361. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Meringues Glacees, 1301, 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, June . 



Breakfast. 



Crawfish Omelet, 453. 
Boiled Codfish, Cream sauce, 352, 181. 
Corned Beef Hash a 1'Americaine, 531, 

Boiled Corn, 962. 
Brioche Conde, 1203. 



jeon. 

Shad, maitre d'h&tel, 326. 

Stewed Lamb, with Lima Beans, 705. 

Potatoes a la Hanna, 1012. 

Lobster Salad, 1061. 
Rice a la Bonne Femme, 1172. 



dinner. 



East River Oysters, 298. 

Chiffonade, 14. 

Radishes, 292. Mortadella, 287. 

Broiled Sea-bass, sauce Tartare, 326, 207. 

Piloff of Chicken a la Turque, 782. 

Fresh Lima Beans, 952. 

Veal Cutlets a la Philadelphia, 565. 

Artichokes a la Vinaigrette, 902. 

Reed-birds, with Bacon, 877, 754. 

Romaine Salad. 1064. 

Peaches and Cream. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, June . 



Breakfast. 

Omelet, Bonne Femme, 466. 

Fried Whitebait, 301. 

Escalops of Veal a la Provengale, 573. 

Broiled Tomatoes, 1025. 

Peach Marmalade, 1331. 



Salmon Croquettes, 364. 

Lamb eu Brochette a la Colbert, 674, 190. 

String Beans, Sautes au Beurre, 947. 

Savarin, 1197. 



^Dinner. 

Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Consomme Printanier, 109. 

nchovies, 284. Radishes, 292. 

Sheep's-head a la Chambord, 343. 

Sirloin, Pique a la Bernardi, 523. 

Croquettes of Macaroni, 279. 
Chicken Saute a la Parmentier, 773. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

English Snipe sur Canape, 868, 832. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Sherry Wine Jelly, 1318. 

Lady-fingers,. 1-231. 

Coffee, 1349. 



8 4 



THE TABLE. 



Sunday, June . 



Breakfast. 



EHnner. 



Eggs a 1'Imperatrice, 440. 

Broiled Spanish-mackerel, 329. 

Lamb Chops, Robinson, 682. 

Hashed Potatoes, with Cream, 1003. 

Fresh Cherries. 



Ctmcljeon. 



Scallops Brestoise, 392. 
Blanquette of Veal, with Nouilles, 552. 

Green Peas, 978. 

Chicken Salad, 1044. 

Iced Timbale of Rice, 1175. 



Blue Point Oysters, 298. 
Cream of Cauliflower, 73. 

Celery, 290. Olives. 

Bass, sauce Hollandaise, 352, 160. 
Boiled Turkey, Celery sauce, 796. 

Flageolets, 945. 

Roast Tenderloin of Beef a la Hussard, 519. 
Champagne Punch, 1307. 

Roast Chicken, 755. 

Tomato, Mayonnaise Salad, 1071. 

Strawberry Ice-cream, 1274. 

Almond Cake, 1224. 

Neuchatel Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, June 



Breakfast. 



Dinner. 



Omelet, with fine Herbs, 451. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Broiled Pig's Feet, sauce Piquante, 729. 

Turnips, with Gravy, 967. 

Brioches Fluttes, 1204. 



Cttncljeon. 



Broiled, Deviled Soft-shelled Crabs, 369. 

Beefsteak Pie a PAnglaise, 487, 

Anchovy Salad, 1037. 

Fritters Soufflees, 1192. 



Clams, 300. 

Consomme Tapioca, 104. 

Tomatoes, 288. Olives. 

Broiled Trout, sauce Bearnaise, 314, 166. 

Potatoes a 1'Hollandaise, 999. 

Shoulder of Lamb a 1'Africaine, 693. 

Sweet Breads, Soubise, 606. 

Spinach, with Gravy, 943. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Rice Pudding a 1'Orange, 1130. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday, June . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs en Filets, 423. 

Broiled Shad's Roe, 402. 

Hamburg Steak, Madeira Sauce, 526, 185. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027 . 

Maraschino Cream, 1257. 

Cuncljeon. 

Codfish with black Butter, 352, 159. 
Fricandeau of Veal, with Sorrel, 577. 

Stuffed Egg-plant, 909. 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Charlotte Russe, 1261. 



Dinner. 



Parker Bay Oysters, 298. 
Clear Green Turtle, 18. 

Radishes, 292. Cucumbers, 289. 

Broiled Fresh Mackerel, maltre d'h6tel, 329. 
Croustade of Kidneys, Perigueux, 680, 191 . 

Green Corn Saute au Beurre, 964. 

Broiled Tenderloin, with Watercress, 503. 

Asparagus, Hollandaise sauce, 904. 

Squabs on Toast, 816. 

Macedoine Salad, 1063. 

Banana Ice-cream, 1277. 

Biscuits a la Livornaise, 1233. 

Coffte, 1349. 



MENUS. 



Wednesday, June . 



Breakfast. 

Omelet with Sausages, 465. 

Halibut Steaks, Butter sauce, 310, 157. 

Call's Liver and Bacon, 584. 

Lima Beans, 952. 
Rit au Lait d'Amande, 1170. 

Cunxljeon. 

Canape Lorenzo, 391. 
Irish Mutton Stew, 660. 

Risotto, 1017. 
Baba au Madere, 1217. 



dinner. 



Olives . 



Clams, 300. 

Ox-tail with Barley, 38. 
Tomatoes, 288. 

Bluefish au Gratin, 319. 

Potatoes, Parisiennes, 986. 

Tenderloin of Beef a la Nivernaise, 505. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. 

Salmi of Snipe, maison d'or, 867. 

Asparagus a la Tessinoise, 906. 

Roast Loin of Mutton, 585. 

Celery, Mayonnaise Salad, 1042. 

Raspberry Water-ice, 1281. 

Biscuits, Ambrcisiennes, 1234. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday, June . 



Breakfast. 



Hominy and Cream. 

Eggs a la Turque, 439. 

Lamb Chops a la Diable, 672. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Strawberries and Cream. 



Cuncl) 



eon. 



JDhmer. 



Broiled, Deviled Soft-shelled Crabs, 369. 

Breast of Turkey, a la Financiere, 806, 246. 

Salad a 1'Italienne, 1036. 

Pear Pie, 1084. 



Doxie Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Puree Conde, 48. 
Mortadella, 287. Radishes 292. 

Soles a la St. Nazaire, 323, 236. 

Curry of Lamb a 1'Indienne, 677. 

Broiled Porterhouse Steak a la Bordelaise, 491. 

Aspa'ragus a la Vinaigrette, 905. 

Roast Rhode Island Turkey, 800. 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad, 1060. 

Peach Pudding, 1150. 

Imported Brie Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, June . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet aux Sardines, 468. 

Broiled Kingfish, 329. 

Sheep's Feet a la Poulette, 654. 

Tomatoes a la Bock, 1026. 

Small Brioches, 1202. 

Cunctyeon. 

Lobster a la Rushmore, 1358. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 
Veal, Stewed, Marengo, 624. 

Asparagus Salad, 905. 
Choux a la Cr&ne, 1246. 



JDtnner. 



Small Prince's Bay Oysters, 298. 

Chicken with Gumbo, 67. 

Olives. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Bluefish with fine Herbs, 331. 

Potatoes, Chateaux, 1009. 
Tenderloin of Beef, aux Gourmets, 508. 

Green Peas, 978. 

Fricasse of Chicken a la Reine, 780. 

Boiled Green Corn, 962. 

Roast English Snipe, 868. 

Chicory Salad au Chapon, 1046. 

Omelet au Kirsch, 476. 

Coffee, 1349. 



86 



THE TABLE. 



Saturday, June . 



Breakfast. 



EHnner. 



Eggs au Miroir, 425. 

Picked-up Codfish, 346. 

Lamb Fries, sauce Italienne, 673, 

Stewed Green Corn. 964. 

Rice a 1'Airolo, 1171. 



Cmuljeon. 



Fried Frogs, sauce Tar tare, 400, 207. 

Stewed Beef a 1' Egyptienne, 540. 

Spaghetti au Gratin, 961. 

Russian Salad, 1065. 

French Pudding, 1139. 



Small Blue Point Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Royal, 107. 

Caviare, 281. Cucumbers, 289. 

Broiled Kingfish, maitre d'hotel, 329. 

Potatoes, Duchesse, 1006. 
Mutton Chops a la Prove^ale, 642. 

Succotash, 1022. 
Squabs en Compote, 822. 

Green Peas, 978. 

Roast Loin of Veal, 585. 

Doucette and Egg Salad, 1054. 

Apples, Meringues, 1248. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, June . 



Breakfast. 



JDinner. 



Omelet a la Vanderbilt, 471. 

Broiled, Deviled Soft-shelled Crabs, 369. 

Mutton Chops with Watercress, 643. 

Sweet Potatoes, 982. 

Stewed Pears, 1333. 



Ctmctyeon. 



Broiled Lobster, sauce Ravigote, 363. 
Calf's Head a la Cavour, 638. 

Japanese Salad, 1075. 
Water-melon k la Jose Paez, 1316. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Cream of Lettuce, 87. 

Olives. Radishes, 292. 

Spanish-mackerel, maitre d'hdtel, 329. 

Potatoes en Surprise, 1005. 
Tenderloin of Beef a la Florentine, 506. 

Broiled Tomatoes, 1025. 
Coquilles of Sweetbreads, with Mushrooms, 621, 

609. 

Punch a la Frangaise, 1311. 
Roast Snipe on Toast, 868. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Plum Pudding, Glace a la Gladstone, 1289. 

Biscuits Richelieu, 1232. 

Camembert Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, July . 



Breakfast. 



la Paysanne, 433. 

Broiled Bacon, 754. 

Lamb, Hashed a la Polonaise, 700. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Creme Renversee, 1252. 

Cuncljeon, 

Frogs' Legs a la Geo. Merrill, 1372. 

Mutton Chops a la Robinson, 682. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Beef Salad, 1039. 
Blanc-mange a laj. Delmonico, 1270. 



JDtnner. 



Small Rockaway Oysters, 298. 
Consomme a 1'Andalouse, 117. 
Anchovies, 284. Cucumbers, 2? 

Bluefish a 1'Icarienne, 336. 
Curry of Lamb a 1'Indienne, 677. 

Spinach, maitre d'h6tel, 942. 
Chicken Croquettes a la Reine, 758. 

Green Peas, 978. 

Roast Woodcock, 871. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Sago Pudding, 1140. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



Tuesday, July . 



Breakfast. 



Scrambled Eggs, with Cheese, 405. 
Broiled Fresh Mackerel, 329. 

Stewed Veal a la Chasseur, 632. 

Stewed Bermuda Potatoes, 995. 
Rice and Cream a la Croce, 1296. 



Ctmcl)i 



)eon. 

Clam Patties, 387. 

Irish Mutton Stew, 660. 

Baked Tomatoes, 1028. 

Lobster Salad a la Boardman, 1368. 

Musk-melons. 



HHtmer. 



Linn Haven Oysters, 298. 

Julienne, 27. 

Lyons Sausage, 286. Radishes, 292. 

Blackfish, Oyster sauce, 352. 
Sweetbreads a la Godard, 614. 

String Beans au Blanc, 947. 

Chicken, Saute a 1'Hongroise, 772. 

Asparagus, sauce Hollandaise, 904. 

Reed-birds with Bacon, 877, 754. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Apple Fritters, 1191. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, July . 



Breakfast. 

Oatmeal and Cream. 

Ham Omelet, 462. 

Porterhouse Steak, 524. 

French Fried Potatoes, 993. 

Brioche, 1201. 



Ctmclj 



jeon. 

Broiled, Deviled Soft-shelled Crabs, 369. 

Veal Cutlets a la Philadelphia, 565. 

Sweet Potatoes Soufflees, 1010. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975 
Raspberry Tarts, 1118 



SHnner. 



Clams, 300. 

Busecca a la Milanaise, 7. 

Thon, 282. Celery, 290 

Halibut, Cream sauce, 309, 181. 

Tenderloin a la Hussard, 519. 

Green Corn, 962. 

Broiled Plovers, with Bacon, 866, 754. 
Tomatoes a la Bock, 1026. 

Roast Veal, 585. 

Cauliflower Salad, 1040. 

Charlotte Russe, 1261. 

Coffee, 1349. 



88 THE TABLE. 



FOURTH OF JULY, 

Thursday, July . 

Urmkfast. 

Eggs a la Bennett, 447. 
Fish Balls a la Mrs. Harrison, 347. 
Chicken Livers en Brochette, 769. 
Tomatoes a la Marseillaise, 1029. 

Raspberries and Cream. 

Cuntljeon. 

Toast, with fine Herbs, 315. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 
Hashed Chicken with Cream, 804. 

Salad Suedoise, 1069. 
Pie k la Martha Washington, 1105. 

SDimur. 

Small Keyport Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Asparagus, 70. 
Olives. Radishes, 292. 

Sole au Gratin, 319. 
Mignons Filets a la Bayard, 509, 231. 

Green Peas, 978. 
Spring Chicken a la Maryland, 785. 

Asparagus a la Tessinoise, 906. 
Oranges Glacees a la George Renauldt, 1297. 

Doe-birds sur Canape, 838. 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad, 1060. 

Tutti-frutti a la Gen. Harrison, 1371. 

Small Meringues a laCh. C. Delmonico, 1249. 

Mazagran a la Gen. Dufour, 1392. 



MENUS. 89 



Friday, July . 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Fresh Shrimp Omelet, 453. Purde Mongole, 50. 

Broiled Bluefish, 329. Tomatoes, 288. Olives. 

Calf's Brains, with black Butter, 557. Frogs a la Poulette, 399. 

Mashed Potatoes, 998. Tenderloin, Pique a la Portugaise, 517, 

Rice a la Frangaise, 1180. Stuffed Egg-plant, 909. 

Squabs en Crapaudine, 819. 

eon. 



/! i 

itmrtj 



Matelote of Eels, 332. ' Roast Saddle of Spring Lamb, 664. 
Stewed Lamb a la Fran9aise, 704. Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Macaroni, Napolitaine, 957. Lemon Water-ice, 1279. 

Salad Macedoine, 1063, Galette, 1221. 

Peaches and Cream. Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, July . 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Eggs a 1'Aurore. 444. Croute-au-Pot, n. 

Lamb Steaks, sauce Piquante, 717. Cucumbers, 289. Radishes, 292. 

Onions, with Cream, 968. Por S ies au Gratin ' 3'9- 

Fresh Plums. Broiled Sirloin aux Cepes, 496 . 

Flageolets, 1365. 
fn i Ducklings a 1' Americaine, 823. 

lumcijeon. Stuffe d p eppe rs, 97 5. 



Kingfish, maitre d'h6tel, 329. 

Curry of Chicken a la Creole, 794. 

Anchovy Salad, 1037. 

Pineapple Tarts, 1115. 



Roast Loin of Veal, 585. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Apple Pudding a 1'Helvetienne, 1152. 

Roquefort Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, July . 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Omelet with Asparagus-tops, 458. Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Broiled Kingfish, 329. Chicken a la Creole, 65. 

Hashed Chicken a la Creme, 804. Radishes, 292. Olives. 

Sweet Potatoes, Hollandaise, 999. Salmon a la Genoise, 306. 

Milan Cake, 1228. Broiled Lamb Chops, with Green Peas, 647, 977. 

Tenderloin of Beef, Bearnaise, 503, 166. 

Asparagus, Hollandaise, 904. 
Frogs' Legs a la Geo. Merrill, 1372. Punch au Kirsch, 1305. 

Broiled Turkey Legs, Mustard sauce, 766, 202. Roast Woodcock, 871. 

Broiled Potatoes, 983. Lettuce, Mayonnaise Salad, 1057, 1042. 

Lobster Salad a la Plummer, 1062. Plombiere a la Hamilton, 1370. 

Water-melon a la Romero, 1315. Coffee, 1349. 



9 o 



THE TABLE. 



Monday, July . 



Breakfast. 



flUnntr. 



Eggs a la Suisse, 441. 
Mutton Chops, Anchovy Butter, 647, 146. 

Potatoes, Lyonnaise, 991. 

Breaded Pig's Feet, sauce Tartare, 727, 207. 

Creme en Mousse au Cafe, 1253. 

Cunctjeott 

Soft-shelled Clams a la Newburg, 389. 

Leg of Mutton, Bretonne, 650. 

Spinach with Eggs, 940. 

Rhine Wine Jelly, 1324. 



Consomme au Vermicelli, 103. 
Cucumbers, 289. Mortadella 287. 

Lobster a la Newburg, 359. 

Larded Sweetbreads, with Sorrel, 604. 

Beef-tongue a la Milanaise, 538. 

Green Peas, 978. 

Roast Ptarmigan, 862. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Baked Apple Dumplings, 1122. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday, July . 



Breakfast. 



GHnner. 



Ham and Eggs, 412, 753. 

Escalops of Veal, Tomato sauce, 568, 205. 

Potatoes a la Rice, 1007. 

Rice a la Fransaise, 1 180. 



Cmtctjeoiu 



Musk-melon. 

Scallops Brestoise, 392. 

Lamb Croquettes a 1'Italienne, 679, 188. 

Hashed Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. 

Green -gage Pie, 1093. 



Clams, 300. 

Crab with Gumbo, 24. 

Caviare, 281. Radishes, 292. 

Shad with fine Herbs, 331. 
Panpiette of Veal, Puree of Peas, 594, 49. 

Stuffed Egg-plant, 909. 

Chicken, Saute with Tarragon, 774. 

Celery, with Cream, 929. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Pineapple Water-ice, 1283. 

Bitter Almond Macaroons, 1209. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, July , 



Breakfast. 

Boiled Eggs. 

Bass, with White Wine, 342. 

Minced Beef a la Portugaise, 501 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Brioche, 1201. 



Cuncljeon. 



Mussels a la Mariniere, 378. 
Brochette of Lamb a la Dumas, 674. 

Risotto, 1017. 
Huckleberry Tarts, 1113. 



JDtnner. 

Small Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Sorrel, with Asparagus-tops, 41. 

Celery, 290. Sardines, 283. 

Sheep's-head a la Toulouse, 354. 
Broiled Sirloin Steak a la Parisienne, 495. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

Sweetbreads aux Gourmets, 612. 

Asparagus a la Vinaigrette, 905. 

Roast Chicken, with Watercress, 755. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Brandy Jelly. 1321, 

Pithiviers Cake, 1225. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



9 1 



Thursday, July . 



Breakfast. 



Fresh Tomato Omelet, 456. 

Broiled Kingfish, 329. 
Lamb Chops, sauce Robert, 681, 192. 

Stewed Turnips, 967. 
Fresh Peaches ,and Cream. 

Cuttdjeon. 

Stuffed Deviled Clams, 376. 

Tripe a la Lyonnaise, 548. 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Pumpkin Pie, 1099. 



EHnner. 



Clams, 300. 

Chicken a la Piemontaise, 63. 

Lyons Sausage, 286. Radishes, 292. 

Broiled Brook-trout, maitre d'h6tel, 374. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 
Chicken Saute a la Parmentier, 773. 

Green Peas, 978. 
Braised Noix of Veal en Daube, 591. 

Boiled Corn, 962. 

Roast Turkey, 800. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Maraschino Pudding, 1134. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, July . 



Breakfast. 



dinner. 



Scrambled Eggs, with Asparagus-tops, 406. 

Boiled Skate, brown Butter, 325, 156. 

Minced Veal a la Biscaenne, 576. 

Hashed Potatoes, 1002. 

Stewed Apricots, 1335. 

, Citncljeon. 

Fried Whitebait, 301. 

Shoulder of Lamb, Macedoine, 697. 

Macaroni Croquettes, 279. 

Shrimp Salad, 1067. 

Rice a 1'Airolo, 1171. 



Clam Chowder, 13. 
Radishes, 292. Olives. 

Bass a la Chambord, 343. 
Lamb Chops a la Villeroi, 686. 

String Beans, 948. 
Salmi of Plover, maison d'or, 867. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 
Roast Larded Tenderloin of Beef, 516. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 
Macaroon Ice-cream, 1290. 
Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, July . 



Breakfast. 



Poached Eggs on Toast, 404. 

Fried Porgies, 320. 

CalPs Head a la Vinaigrette, 640. 

Lima Beans, 952. 

Fresh Cherries. 



und)con. 



Broiled Bluefish, maitre d'h&tel, 329. 

Veal, Stewed a la Marengo, 624. 

Macedoine Salad, 1063. 

Baked Apples, 1124. 



HKniwr. 



Consomme Deslignac, 108. 
Thon, 282. Celery, 290. 

Fried Soft-shelled Crabs, 368. 
Broiled Spring Chickens, with Bacon, 756. 

Green Peas, 978. 

Coquilles of Sweetbreads a la Dreux, 621. 
Roast Reed-birds, 877. 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Baba, with Rum, 1217. 

Coffee, 1349. 



9 2 



THE TABLE. 



Sunday, July 



Breakfast. 



Omelet a la Regence, 470. 

Broiled, Deviled Soft-shelled Crabs, 369. 

Hashed Turkey en Bordure, 805. 

Stewed Potatoes, 995. 

Brioches Fluttes, 1204. 



Ctmcfyeon. 



Spanish-mackerel, Hollandaise, 317. 
Coquilles of Chicken a 1'Anglaise, 271. 

Sweet Potatoes Soufflees, 1010. 

Water-melon a la Seward, 1317. 

Raspberry Pie, 1096. 



55 inner. 



Clams, 300. 

Chicken a la Richmond, 62. 

Olives. Radishes, 292. 

Small Bouchees a la Reine, 270. 

Frogs a 1'E^pagnole, 401. 
Tenderloin Pique a la Provensale, 518. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 
Veal Cutlets a la Marechale, 562. 

Beans Panachees, 950. 

Punch a la Cardinal, 1306. 

Doe-birds a 1'Americaine, 840. 

Chicory Salad, 1046. 

Plombiere k la Kingman, 1294. 

Mazagranala General Bugeau, 1384. 



Monday, July . 



Breakfast. 



Ham Omelet, with fine Herbs, 462, 431. 

Kingfish, maitre d'h6tel, 329. 
Escalops of Veal a la Duxelle, 569. 
Hashed Potatoes, with Cream, 1003. 
Whipped Cream a la Vanille, 1254. 

unct)eon. 

Fish Balls, 347. 
Braised Beef, Russian sauce, 485. 

Boiled Corn, 962. 

Lamb-tongue Salad, 1056. 

Green-gage Tarts, 1107. 



JDtnner. 



Puree Cr^cy, 47. 
Celery, 290. Olives. 

Broiled Deviled Lobster, 364. 
Mignons Filets, with Marrow, 510. 

Potatoes, Chateau, 1009. 

Epigrammes of Lamb a la Chicoree, 690. 

Roast Chicken, 755. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Vermicelli Pudding, 1142. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday, July . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs a la Tripe, 419. 
Broiled Fresh Mackerel, 329. 

Broiled Ham, 753. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Fresh Apricots. 

Cuncljecn. 

Canape Madison, 269. 

Veal Cutlets a la Philadelphia, 565. 

Chicken Salad, 1044. 

CocoanutPie. rioi. 



JDinner. 



//estmoreland, 33. 
Radishes, 292. Olives. 

Frogs a la Poulette, 399. 
Fricandeau of Veal a la Jardiniere, 577, 1033. 

Lamb Chops, maison d'or, 683. 
Asparagus, with Cream sauce, 904, 181. 

Roast Capon, 755. 
Lettuce Salad, French Dressing, 1057, 1070. 

Strawberry Water-ice, 1281. 

Sweet Almond Macaroons, 1210. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



93 



Wednesday, July . 



Breakfast. 

Shirred Eggs, with brown Butter, 414. 
Broiled English Breakfast Bacon, 754. 

Lamb Steak, with Green Peas, 716. 
Green Corn Stewed with Butter, 964. 
Apples and Rice Meringuees, 1169. 



Dinner. 



Kingfish a 1'Icarienne, 336. 
Mutton Kidneys Sautes, with Madeira Wine, 

662. 

Sweet Potatoes a 1'Hollandaise, 999. 

Tomato, Mayonnaise Salad, 1071. 

Creme en Mousse au Maraschino, 1257. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Chicken a la Turque, 69. 

Tomatoes, 288. Celery, 291. 

Lobster a la Bordelaise, 360. 

Tendron of Veal, with Sorrel, 634. 

Cromesquis of Chicken a la Reine, 765. 

French Artichokes a la Vinaigrette, 902. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Charlotte Panachee, 1300. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday, Julv . 



Breakfast 



Eggs k la Vanderbilt, 420. 

Fried Porgies, Tartare sauce, 320, 207. 

Tripe a la Bordelaise, 544. 

Saratoga Potatoes, ion. 

Musk-melon. 

Cmtcljeott. 

Haddock, Cream sauce, 352, 181. 

Vol-au-Vent a la Finangiere, 810. 

Salad k Tltalienne, 1036. 

Peaches and Cream. 



dinner. 



Cream a la Palestine, 74. 

Olives. Bologna Sausage, 286. 

Fresh Mackerel a la Colbert, 329, 190. 

Sweetbreads with Mushrooms, 609. 

Sorrel aux Croutons, 974. 
Chicken, Saute a la Chasseur, 775, 

Fresh Lima Beans, 952. 

Roast English Snipe, 868. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Iced Pudding Diplomate, 1288. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, July . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet with fine Herbs, 451. 

Blackfish, brown Butter, 309, 156. 

Hashed Beef a la Catalan, 502. 

Tomatoes a la Bock, 1026. 

Peach Marmalade, 1331. 



Ctmcljeon. 



Fried Sea-bass, 320. 
Mignons of Lamb, Bearnaise, 1360. 

Crab Salad, 1047. 
Rice and Cream a la Croce, 1296. 



Dinner. 



Puree Bretonne, 45. 
Cucumbers, 289. Anchovies, 284, 

Salmon Cutlets, Victoria, 366. 

Tenderloin, Pique a la Portugaise, 517. 

Spring Lamb Chops, with Bacon, 647, 754.. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Asparagus a la Tessinoise, 906. 

Roast Chicken, 755. 

Doucette Salad, 1052. 

Biscuits Glacis, 1286. 

Allumettes, 1205. 

Coffee, 1349. 



94 



THE TABLE. 



Saturday, July . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet, Bonne Femme, 466. 

Fried Whitebait, 301. 
Calfs Liver, Saute a 1'Alsacienne, 582. 

Potatoes a la Rice, 1007. 
Brioches a la Conde, 1203. 



Cuncijeon. 



Stuffed Deviled Clams, 376. 

Boiled Turkey a 1'Anglaise, 795. 

Broiled Sweet Potatoes, 983. 

Iced Timbale of Rice, 1175. 



Dinner. 



Consomme with Italian Paste, 103, 
Caviare, 281. Radishes, 2 

Kingfish with black Butter, 352, 159. 

Braised Beef a la Flamande, 482. 
Lamb Croquettes a la Soubise, 679, 250. 

Stewed Fresh Tomatoes, 1027. 
Broiled Squabs on Toast, with Bacon, 817. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Almond Cake, Glace, 1208. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, July 



Breakfast. 



JDinner. 



Eggs a la Torque, 439. 

Fish Balls a la Mrs. Harrison, 347. 

Deviled Lamb Chops, with Bacon, 647, 754. 

Succotash with Cream, 1022. 

Fresh Plums. 



Ctmdjeon. 



Broiled Pompano, maitre d'hdtel, 339. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 

Croustade of Chicken Livers au Madere, 763. 

Lobster Salad a la Plummer, 1062. 

Boiled Apple Dumplings, 1127. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Consomme, Massena, 102. 

Mortadella, 287. Olives. 

Boiled Kennebec Salmon, Percillade sauce, 

303. 165. 

Potatoes, Windsor, 1008. 

Broiled Tenderloin a la Chiron, 504. 

Asparagus, sauce Hollandaise, 904. 

Broiled Chicken with Bacon, 756. 

Beans Panachees, 950. 

Punch Romaine, 1304. 

Roast Woodcock on Toast, 871. 

Escarole Salad, 1053. 
Cabinet Pudding a la Sadi-Carnot, 1164. 

Gorgonzolla Cheese. 
Mazagran a la General Dufour, 1392. 



Monday, July . 



Breakfast. 



JDinner. 



Omelet Raspafl, 467. 

Fried Black-bass, Tomato sauce, 320, 205. 

Hashed Lamb a laZingara, 652. 

Potatoes a la Hanna, 1012. 
Creme en Mousse au Maraschino, 1257. 



Ctmctyecm. 



Broiled, Deviled Soft-shelled Crabs on Toast, 

369- 
Stewed Veal, Marengo, 624. 

Salad Suedoise, 1069. 
Lemon Cream Pie, Meringue, 1102. 



Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Colbert, 120. 

Radishes, 292. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Lobster en Chevreuse, 362. 
Cromesquis aux Truffles, 268. 

Green Peas, 978. 

Larded Sweetbreads au Salpicon, 605. 

Broiled Tomatoes, 1025. 

Roast Ducklings, 824. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Vanilla Ice-cream, 1271. 

Biscuits a la Richelieu, 1232. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



95 



Tuesday, July . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs a la Finoise, 424. 

Sole, with White Wine, 342. 

Smoked Beef, with Cream, 486. 

Potatoes en Faille, 1014. 

Fresh Pears. 

uncl)eon. 

Crawfish k la Bordelaise, 360. 

Haricot of Lamb a la Providence, 701 . 

Fried Egg-plant, 907. 

Baba au Rhum, 1217. 



Dinner. 



Clams, 300. 
Brunoise with Rice, 3. 

Watercress, 1072. Radishes, 292. 

Matelote of Eels a la Parisienne, 333. 

Minced Veal a la Biscaenne, 576. 

Oyster-plant h la Poulette, 1019. 

Fricasse of Chicken, with Curry, 792. 

Succotash, 1022. 

Roasted Larded Sirloin of Beef, 516. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Farina Pudding, 1144. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, July . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet with Tarragon, 451. 

Boiled Codfjsh, Egg sauce, 352, 161. 

Broiled Lamb Kidneys, with Bacon, 713. 

Roasted Tomatoes, 1028. 

Corn Fritters, 965. 



tmcl)e0n. 



Fried Soles, Tartare sauce, 320, 207. 
Hashed Turkey en Bordure, 805. 

Stewed Green Corn, 964. 
Rice and Cream a la Croce, 1296. 



Pinner. 

Oysters, 298. 

Printanier Chasseur, 52. 

Tomatoes, 288. Olives. 

Bass h la St. Nazaire, 341, 236. 
Tenderloin of Beef a la Stanton, 1388. 

Green Peas, 978. 

Sweetbreads k la Godard, 614. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Roast Lamb, 1361. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Chocolate Ice-cream, 1272. 

Petites Bouchees des Dames, 1237. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday, July 



Breakfast. 



Hominy and Cream, 1034. 

Eggs a 1'Imperatrice, 440. 

Minced Beef a la Catalan, 502. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Raspberries and Cream. 

Cuncljeon. 

Fried Soft-shelled Crabs, 368. 

Lamb Sweetbreads en Caisses, 274. 

Tomatoes a la Marseillaise, 1029. 

Plum Tarts, mo. 



Dinner. 



Clams, 300. 

Westmoreland, 33. 

Lyons Sausage, 286. Radishes, 292. 

Kingfish, Vert-pre, 328. 

Stewed Lamb and Lima Beans, 705. 

Turban of Chicken a la Cleveland, 791. 

Beans Panachees, 950. 
Roast Grass Plovers, 865. 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Apple Pudding al'Helvetienne, 1152, 

Coffee, 1349. 



9 6 



THE TABLE. 



Friday, July . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet with fine Herbs, 451. 

Broiled Bass, maitre d'h&tel, 329. 

Stewed Tripe a la Creole, 545. 

Stewed Fresh Tomatoes, 1027. 

Brioches Fluttes, 1204. 



Cunct) 



eon. 



Stuffed Deviled Lobsters, 367. 
Sausages a la Gastronome, 740. 

Salad Macedoine, 1063. 
Jamaica Rum Jelly, 1320. 



SHnner. 



Oysters, 298. 

Fish Chowder, 12. 

Tomatoes, 288. Olives. 

Fresh Mackerel a la Venitienne, 338. 
Tenderloin Marinated, Russian sauce, 511. 

String Beans, 948. 

Leg of Mutton a la Conde, 649. 

Asparagus a la Vinaigrette, 905. 

Reed-birds on Toast, 877. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Charlotte Russe, 1261. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, July . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs a la Bechamel, 416. 

Porgies au Gratin, 356. 

Sirloin Steak a la Bordelaise, 491. 

Potatoes , maitre d'h&tel, 985. 

Musk-melon. 

tmd)eon. 

Frogs & la Poulette, 399. 

Broiled Mutton Chops, Soyer, 647. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Gooseberry Pie, 1091. 



dinner. 



Oysters, 298. 

Potage a la Montmorency, 97. 
Sardines, 283. Celery, 290. 

Timbales a 1'Ecossaise, 261. 
Mignons Filets a la Bohemienne, 513. 

Stuffed Green Peppers, 975. 

Breast of Lamb, Jardiniere, 702. 

Doe-birds a 1'Americaine, 840. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Bread Pudding, 1132. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, July . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet Regence, 470. 

Boiled Halibut, Egg sauce, 309, 161. 

Hashed Chicken a la Bechamel, 802. 

Broiled Tomatoes, 1025. 

French Pancake, 1186. 



Ctmctjeon. 



Canape Lorenzo, 391. 

Broiled, Deviled Chicken Legs, 766. 

Oyster-plant, Poulette, 1019. 

Japanese Salad, 1075. 
Boiled Apple Dumplings, 1127. 



Sinner. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Cream of Chicken, 82. 

Radishes, 292. Olives. 

Sheep's-head a la Toulouse, 354. 
Larded Tenderloin a la Financiere, 516, 246. 

Green Peas, 978. 

Mutton Chops, Massena, 687. 

Tomatoes a la Bock, 1026. 

Champagne Punch, 1307. 

Roast Chicken, 755. 
Lettuce and Egg Salad, 1058. 

Tutti-frutti, 1293, 
Petites Bouchees des Dames a la Mme. Astor, 

1238. 

Roquefort Cheese. 
Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



97 



Monday p , July . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs a la Bourguignonne, 411. 

Broiled Salt Mackerel, 329. 

Minced Veal a la Catalan, 575. 

Lima Beans Sautees, with Cream, 952. 

Cream Renversee, 1252. 



Cuneljeon. 



Mussels, sauce Poulette, 379. 
Stewed Lamb, with Flageolets, 707. 

Herring Salad, 1074, 
Raspberries and Cream. 



Dinner. 



Oysters, 298. 

Puree Parmentier, 44. 

Thon, 282. Radishes, 292. 

Bluefish au Gratin, 319. 

Sweetbreads a la Financiere, 603. 

Spinach aux Croutons, 940. 

Chicken a la Maryland, 785. 

Roasted Tomatoes, 1028. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Custard Pudding, 1154. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday \ July . 



Breakfast, 



Green Peas Omelet, 459. 

Broiled Sardines on Toast, 403. 

Hamburg Steak, Colbert, 526, 190. 

Hashed Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. 

Fresh Pears. 



Cmuljeon. 

Porgies, White Wine sauce, 342. 

Chicken Pot-pie, 757. 

Cauliflower Salad, 1040. 

Rhubarb Tarts, 1 1 12. 



Dinner. 



Clams, 300. 

Chiffonade, 14. 

Celery, 290. Mortadella, 287. 

Kennebec Salmon a la Creole, 339. 
Braised Leg of Mutton a la Portugaise, 648. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Croquettes of Sweetbreads, with Asparagus- 
tops, 620. 
Fresh Broiled Mushrooms on Toast, 916. 

Roast Ducklings, 824. 

Tomato, Mayonnaise Salad, 1071. 

Pineapple Water-ice, 1283. 

Fancy Almond Cakes, 1239. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday^ July . 



Breakfast. 



Scrambled Eggs, with Fresh Mushrooms, 406. 

Broiled Mackerel, maitre d'h&tel, 329. 
Stewed Mutton Kidneys, with Madeira Wine, 

662. 

Stewed Turnips, 967. 
Brioche, 1201. 



Dinner. 



Cnneljj 



)eon. 

Lobster en Chevreuse, 362. 

Haricot of Lamb a la Providence, 701. 

Asparagus Salad, 905. 

Pear Pie, 1084. 

7 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Shin of Beef, liee, 29. 

Radishes 292. Olives. 

Soles, with White Wine, 342. 

Coquilles of Chicken a 1'Angiaise, 271. 

Sirloin Pique, with Stuffed Tomatoes, 598, 1023. 

Snipe sur Canape, 868. 

Celery Salad, 1041. 
Chocolate Pudding, 1146. 

Sv/iss Cheese. 
Mazagran a la General Bugeau, 1391. 



THE TABLE. 



Thursday, August . 



Breakfast. 

Tomato Omelet, 456. 

Tripe a la Lyonnaise, 548. 

Prochette of Lamb a la Dumas, 674. 

Sorrel au Gras, 974. 

Peaches and Cream. 



Cuncl)eon. 

Bluefish with White Wine, 342. 

Ragout of Beef, Dufour, 541. 

String Beans, 948. 

Baba, 1216. 



Sinner. 



Clams 300. 
Puree Conde, 48. 

Radishes, 292. Sausage, 286. 

Kennebec Salmon, a 1'Hollandaise, 303, 160. 
Saddle of Mutton, Londonderry sauce, 668. 

Succotash, 1022. 

Chicken Saute a la Marengo, 771. 
Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 
Woodcock on 'loast, 871. 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Vanilla Ice-cream, 1271. 

Coffee Eclairs, 1244. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, August . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet, Bonne Femme, 466. 

Fried Soft-shelled Crabs, 368. 

Hashed Beef a la Portugaise, 501 , 

Potatoes with Cream, 1003. 

Rice a la FrangaLse, 1180. 



ttnd)eon. 



Matelote of Eels, 332. 

Croquettes of Lamb a la Patti, 679. 

Anchovy Salad, 1037. 

Currant Tarts, 1114. 



Dinner. 



Oysters, 298. 
Clam Chowder, 13. 

Tomatoes, 288. Olives. 

Crawfish a la Bordelaise, 360. 

Calf's-head a la Cavour, 638. 

Artichoke-bottoms, Florentine, 903. 

Tenderloin of Beef a la Provengale, 518. 

Asparagus a la Vinaigrette, 905. 

Roast Turkey, Cranberry sauce, 800, 1329. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Nelson Pudding, 1155. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, August . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs au Beurre noir, 414. 

Sole a la Horly, 321. 
Broiled Lamb Fries a la Diable, 672. 

Oyster-plant a la Poulette, 1019. 
Whipped Cream a la Vanille, 1254. 

Ctmctjeon. 

Frogs' Legs a la Geo. Merrill, 1372. 

Escalops of Veal a la Duxelle, 569. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Cranberry Pie, n 4. 



Dinner. 



Clams, 300. 

Rice with Sorrel, 42. 

Caviare, 281. Radishes, 292. 

Kingfish with fine Herbs, 331. 

Croquettes of Sweetbreads aux petits Pois, 620. 

C hicken Fricasse a la Reine, 780. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Tomato and Lettuce Salad, 1060. 

Meringues Glacees, 1301. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



99 



Sunday, August . 



Breakfast. 

Omelet Raspail, 467. 

Broiled Sea-bass, 310. 

Lamb Chops a la Robinson, 682. 

Potatoes Soufflees, 1010. 

Musk-melon. 



Cunctyeon. 

Broiled, Deviled Soft -shelled Crabs, 369. 

Hamburg Ste&k, Russian sauce, 526. 

Potatoes Hollandaise, 999. 

Lobster Salad, 1061. 
Creme en Mousse au Curagoa, 1259. 



Dinner. 



Clams, 300. 

Consomme Princesse, 113. 
Radishes, 292. Olives. 

Fresh Mackerel en Papillotes, 330. 

Roast Ham, Champagne sauce, 723. 

Stewed Green Corn, 963. 

Squabs en Compote, 822. 

Beans Panachees, 950. 

Romaine Punch, 1304. 

English Snipe, 868. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Pudding a la U. S. Grant, 1159. 

Came mbert Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, August . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs au Miroir, 425. 
Fish Balls, 347. 



Dinner. 



Little Neck Clams, 300 
Giblets a PAnglaise, 22. 



Broiled Pork Tenderloin, Apple sauce, 741, 168. Lyons Sausage, 286. 



Celery, 290. 



Corn Saute with Butter, 964. 
Milan Cake, 1228. 



uncl)j 



|eon. 

Mussels a la Mariniere, 378. 

Tendron of Veal a la Morlaisienne, 635. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 

Blackberry Tarts, 1119. 



Pompano au Gratin, 319. 

Curry of Lamb a 1'Indienne, 677. 

Chicken Vol-au-Vent a la Reine, 812. 

Asparagus a la Tessinoise, 906. 

Plovers sur Canape, 865. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Omelet Soufflee, 474. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesaay, August . 



Breakfast. 

Omelet with Cheese, 469. 

Broiled Kingfish, Anchovy Butter, 329, 146. 

Sheep's Feet, maitre d'h&tel, 654, 177. 

Mashed Potatoes au Gratin, 998. 

Fresh Pears. 



Dinner. 



Ctmctjeon. 



Scallops a la Poulette, 379. 

Minced Tenderloin a la Portugaise, 501. 

Fried Egg-plant, 907. 

Rice kl'Airol t o, 1171. 



Clams, 300. 

Cream of Green Peas. 76. 

Caviare, 281. Radishes, 292. 

Sheep's-head a la Creole, 339. 
Sweetbreads au Salpicon, 605. 

Green Corn, 962. 
Pork Chops, sauce Piquante, 745. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. 

Roast Loin of Lamb, 585. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Lemon Pudding. 1157. 

Coffee, 1349. 



IOO 



THE TABLE. 



Wednesday ', August . 



Breakfast 

Eggs a la Valencienne, 421. 

Fried Porgies, 320. 

Lamb Steak, with Green Peas, 716. 

Tomatoes a la Marseillaise, 1029. 

Blackberries and Cream. 

Cundjeon. 

Fried Whitebait, 301. 

Stewed Veal a la Marengo, 624. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Peach Marmalade, 1331. 



SHnncr. 



Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Tapioca, 104. 

Olives. Tomatoes, 288. 

Spanish-mackerel a la Toulouse, 354. 

, Tenderloin of Beef a la Cheron, 504. 

Asparagus a la Vinaigrette. 905. 

Salmi of Snipe a la Moderne, 870. 

Succotash, 1022. 

Roast Veal, 585. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Croustade of Rice, 1176. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Th u rsday^ A ugust 



Breakfast. 



Omelet with fine Herb.s, 451. 

Broiled Pompano, maitre d'h&tel, 329. 

Sausages, with White Wine sauce, 735. 

Potatoes, Lyonnaise, 991. 

Fresh Grapes. 

uncl)eon. 

Weakfish a la Venitienne, 338. 

Tripe a la Bordelaise, 544. 

Cauliflower Salad, 1040. 

Iced Timbale of Rice, 1175. 



ID inner. 



Clams, 300. 
Chicken a 1'Okra, 67. 

Radishes, 292. Mortadella, 287. 

Lobster Croquettes a la Victoria, 365, 208. 
Escalops of Sweetbreads, Richelieu, 574. 

Sorrel au Gras, 974. 
Chicken, Saute a 1'Hongrpise, 772. 

Fresh Lima Beans, 952. 

Roast Snipe on Toast, 868. 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Rum Cake, 1229. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday ', August . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet Mexicaine, 473. 

Fried Whitebait, 301. 

Beefsteak and Watercress, 524. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Fritters Soufflees, 1192. 

Ctmcljeon. 

Broiled Sea-bass, 329. 

Veal Cutlets Pagasqui, 560. 

Stuffed Cabbage, 919. 

Anchovy Salad, 1037. 

Boiled Apple Dumplings, 1127. 



JDtnner. 



Oysters, 298. 

Cream of-Celery a 1'Espagnole, 86. 
Olives. Tomatoes, 2? 

Fried Blackfish, 320. 
Turkey Legs a la Diable, 766. 
Corn, Stewed with Butter, 964. 
Lamb Chops, maison d'or, 683. 

Spaghetti Napolitaine, 959. 

Squabs, with Watercress, 816. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Peach Pic, 1092. 

Cofee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



IOI 



Saturday, August . 



Breakfast. 

Ham Omelet, 462. 
Lamb en Brochette a la Dumas, 674. 

Macaroni, with Cream, 954. 
Crme en Mousse au Maraschino, 1257. 

und)eon. 

Fried Soft-shelled Crabs, 368. 
Minced Beef a la Catalan, 502. 

Stuffed Cucumbers, 937. 

Sweet Potatoes, Soufflees, 1010. 

Savarin a 1'Anglaise, 1199. 



JD inner. 



Prince's Bay Oysters, 298. 

Puree Faubonne, 46. 

Olives. Radishes, 292. 

Codfish, nut-brown Butter, 352, 156. 

Sweetbreads, with Mushrooms, 609. 

Oyster-plant a la Poulette, 1019, 

Saddle of Mutton, Sevigne, 669. 

Roast Turkey, 800. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Apple Charlotte, 1167. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, August . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs a la Vanderbilt, 420. 

Broiled Deviled Soft-shelled Crabs, 369. 

Hashed Turkey en Bordure, 805. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 

Fresh Green -gages. . 



Cuncljecm. 



Broiled Trout, maitre d'h&tel, 314. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 
Broiled Chicken Legs a la Diable, 766. 

Mushrooms on Toast, 916. 
Water-melon h la Romero, 1315. 



HHnner. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Consomme aux Quenelles, 129. 

Radishes, 292. Celery, 290. 

Fried Frogs, 400. 
Tenderloin of Beef, Larded a la Montglas, 

5161 213, 

Green Peas, Sautes au Beurre, 980. 

Supreme of Chicken a la Toulouse, 786. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Kirsch Punch, 1305. 

Roast Woodcock, 871. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Strawberry Ice-cream, 1274. 

Small Meringues a la Ch. C. Delmonico, 1249. 

Strachino Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, August . 



Breakfast. 

Smoked Beef Omelet, 461. 

Minced Veal a la Biscaenne, 576. 

Stewed Lima Beans, 952. 

Small Brioches, 1202. 

Ctnuljeon. 

Stuffed Deviled Clams, 376. 

Stewed Calfs Liver, sauce Piquante, 580, 203. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. 

Herring Salad, 1074. 

Choux a la Creme, 1246. 



JD inner. 



Oysters, 298. 

Brunoise, with Sorrel, 4. 

Olives. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Broiled Deviled Lobsters, 364. 

Haricot of Lamb a la Providence, 701. 

Broiled Tenderloin Steak, Bearnaise, 492. 

Green Peas, 978. 
Plover, with Watercress, 865. 

Lettuce Salad, 1058. 

Orange Pudding, 1158. 

Coffee, 1349. 



IO2 



THE TABLE. 



Tuesday, August . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs a la Bennett, 447, 

Filet de Sole a la Joinville, 322. 

Croquettes of Lamb, Russian sauce, 679, 211 

Potatoes en Julienne, 1013. 

Raspberries and Cream. 



Ctmcljeon. 



) inner. 



Broiled Fresh Mackerel aux fines Herbes, 331. 

Blanquette of Veal, with Nouilles, 552. 

Stuffed Lettuce, 953. 

Pear Pie, 1084. 



Clams, 300. 

Ox-tail, with Barley, 38. 
Olives. Celery, 290. 

Porgies, Lobster sauce, 353, 158. 
Ballotin of Lamb a la Macedoine, 675. 1032. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023 ; 
Beef-tongue a la Gendarme, 532. 
Sorrel aux Croutons, 974. 

Roast Pigeons, 816. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Omelet Soufflee, 474. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, August . 



Breakfast. 



JDtnner. 



Tomato Omelet a la Provengale, 457. 

Broiled Porterhouse Steaks, 524. 

Potatoes Chateau, 1009. 

Sherry Wine Jelly, 1318. 



Ikmttyeon. 



Fried Scallops, Tomato sauce, 392, 205. 

Shoulder of Lamb, Rouennaise, 698. 

Spinach, with Eggs, 940. 

Raspberry Tarts, 1118. 



Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Garibaldi, 112. 

Radishes, 292. Mortadella, 287. 

Sheep's-head, Oyster sauce, 352. 

Sweetbreads a la Montglas, 615. 

String Beans, 946. 

Boiled Turkey, Celery sauce, 796. 

Roast Mushrooms on Toast, 916. 

Roast English Snipe, 868. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Blackberry Shortcake, 1215. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday, August . 



Breakfast 

Scrambled Eggs, with Asparagus-tops, 406. 

Broiled Kingfish, maitre d'h&tel, 329. 

Calf's Feet a la Poulette, 598. 

Tomatoes a la Bock, 1026. 

Rice a la Conde, 1181. 



iDtnmr. 



Cuncljeon. 



Lobster a la Rushmore, 1358. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 
Salmi of Spring Duck a la Bourgeoise 829. 

String Beans, 948, 
French Pudding, 1139. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Cream, Palestine, 74. 
Olives. Celery, 290. 

Soles a la Joinville, 322. 

Breast of Lamb a la Jardiniere, 702. 

Okras, Sautes a la Creole, 1031. 

Chicken, Fricasse a la Reine, 780. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 

Roast Woodcock, 871. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Pistache Ice-cream, 1275, 

Lady-fingers, 1231. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



Friday, August . 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Omelet Mexicaine, 473. Oysters, 298. 

Broiled Haddock a 1'Hollandaise, 310, 160. Bouille-a-Baisse, i. 

Tripe a la Lyonnaise, 548. Sardines, 283. Radishes, 292. 

Potatoes, Duchesse, 1006. Bass, with White Wine, 342. 

Musk-melon. Veal Cutlets a la Marechale, 562. 

Asparagus a 1'Hollandaise, 904. 
iCllTirhpfllt Salmi of Snipe a la Walter Scott, 8*56. 

Boiled Corn, 962. 

Weakfish, Italian sauce, 188. Roast Leg of Spring Lamb, 648. 

Beefsteak Pie a I'Americaine, 488. Chicory Salad, 1046. 

Lobster Salad, 1061. Rice Pudding a 1'Orange, 1130. 

Madeleine, 1226. Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, August . 

Breakfast. EHnner. 

Eggs au Parmesan, 431. Small Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Blackfish au Gratin, 356. Puree Mongole, 50. 

Broiled Bacon, 754. Celery, 290. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Breaded Veal Cutlets, Tomato sauce, 563. Kingfish, Hollandaise sauce, 329, 160. 

Succotash, 1022. Mutton Chops a la Soubise, 647, 250. 

Cream Renversee, 1252. Tomatoes a la Marseillaise, 1029. 

Ballotin of Squab a 1'Italienne, 818. 

Oyster-plant a la Poulette, 1019. 

Oysters a la Mali, 386. Roast Saddle of Venison, Currant Jelly, 878. 

Filet Mignon, Marinated, Russian sauce, 511. Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Beans Panachees, 950. Rum Cake, 1229. 

Pumpkin Pie, 1099. Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, August . 

Breakfast. EDinner. 

Eggs a la Meyerbeer, 437. Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Broiled Spanish-mackerel, maitre d'h&tel, 329. Cream of Asparagus, 70. 

Chicken Livers en Brochette, with Bacon, 769. Olives. Radishes, 292. 

Saratoga Potatoes, ion. Broiled Pompano, maitre d'h6tel, 329. 

Peaches and Cream. Cucumber Salad, 289. 

Lamb Chops a la Massena, 687. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 
Tenderloin of Beef a la Florentine, 506. 

Fresh Lima Beans, 952. 

Crawfish a la Bordeiaise, 360. Oranges Glacees a la George Renauldt, 1297. 

Broiled Squab, with Bacon, 817. Roast Turkey, Cranberry sauce, 800, 1329. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. Lettuce Salad, 1059. 

Timbales a la Schultze, 263. Pineapple Fritters, 1191. 

Green -gage Tarts, 1107. Mazagran a la General Dufour, 1391. 



104 



THE TABLE. 



Monday, August . 



Sreakfast 



Fried Eggs, 412. 
Fish Balls, 347. 

Mutton Hash a la Zingara, 652. 

Stewed Turnips, with Cream, 967. 

Brioches, 1201. 



Ctmcljeon. 



Frogs en Brochette, with Bacon, 398, 754. 

Chicken Croquettes a 1'Ecarlate, 760. 

Spaghetti au Gratin, 961. 

Anchovy Salad, 1037. 

Charlotte Russe, 1261. 



Dinner. 



Oysters, 298. 
Mutton, with Barley, 30. 

Radishes, 292. Bologna Sausage, 286. 

Fried Haddock, Tomato sauce, 320, 205. 
Shoulder of Lamb, Rouennaise, 698. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Coquilles of Sweetbreads a la Reine, 623. 

Stewed Corn, 964. 

Roast Plovers, 865. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Peach Pudding a la Richelieu, 1150. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday, August . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs a la Tripe, 419. 

Kingfishau Gratin, 319. 

Sausages a la 1'Italienne, 737. 

Potato Balls, 996. 

Fresh Plums. 



Sinner. 



Broiled Fresh Mackerel, maitre d'hotel, 329. 
.Stewed Mutton, Portugaise, 658. 

Stuffed Cucumbers, 937. 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Apple Pie, 1083. 



Clams, 300. 

Cream of Chicken, 82. 

Olives. Radishes, 292. 

Fried Porgies, Tartare sauce, 320, 207. 

Tenderloin Pique a la Sevigne, 520. 

Oyster-plant a la Poulette, 1019. 
Spring Chicken, Fricasse a I'Americaine, 781. 

Green Peas, 978. 
Roast Duck, Apple sauce, 824. 

Lettuce Salad, 1058. 

Lemon Water-ice, 1279. 

Biscuits, Ambroisiennes, 1234. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, August . 



Breakfast. 

Scrambled Eggs, with Cheese, 405. 

Lamb Fries, sauce Colbert, 673 , 190. 

Hamburg Steak, raw, 1359. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 

Iced Timbale of Rice, 1175. 



itnd)con. 



Pompano, White Wine sauce, 342. 

Blanquettc of Veal, with Peas, 551. 

Broiled Sweet Potatoes, 983. 

Musk-melon. 



Dinner. 

Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Chatelaine, 128. 

Tomatoes, 288. Sardines, 283. 

Skate, with black Butter, 325, 159. 

Veal Cutlets en Papillotes, 566. 

Stuffed Egg-plant, 909. 
Fillet of Chicken a la Rothschild, 790. 

Asparagus a la Vinaigrette, 905. 

* Roast Sirloin of Beef, 516. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Apples with Rice, 1169, 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 105 



Thursday, August - 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Eggs en Filets, 423. Clams, 300. 

Sheep's-head a la Creole, 339. Paysanne, 53. 

Epigrammes of Lamb, with Watercress, 689. Radishes, 292. Olives. 

Potatoes, Julienne, 1013. Spanish-mackerel aux fines Herbes, 331. 

Blackberries and Cream. Cucumber Salad, 289. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton, Caper sauce, 651. 

Ctmcheon. Stuffed Pe pp ers > 975. 

Broiled Tenderloin a la Trianon, 507. 

Oysters a la Baltimore, 38:. Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Squabs en Compote, 822. Woodcock sur Canape, 871. 

Green Peas, 978. Celery Salad, 1042. 

Macedoine Salad, 1063. Almond Cake, Glace, 1208. 

Gooseberry Tarts, 1114. Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, August . 

Breakfast Dinner. 

Sardine Omelet, 468. Oysters, 298. 

Broiled Fresh Mackerel, Anchovy Butter, 329, Sorrel with Rice, 42. 

.., 146 ' Celery, 290. Mortadella. 287. 

Stewed Mutton Kidneys, sauce Madere, 662. Whitebait 

Sweet Potatoes Soufflees, 10x0. m of ^ Montebello, 1360, 249. 

Cream en Mousse au Cafe, I253 . 



iTnrt r h rmi Supreme of Chicken a la Patti, 789. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 

Trout, maitre d'h6tel, 314. Roast English Snipe, 868. 

Roulade of Beef a 1'Ecarlate, 539. Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Boiled Onions, 968. Vanilla Ice-Cream, 1271. 

Crab Salad, 1047. Sweet Macaroons, 1210. 

Apple Cake, iaii. Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, August . 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Poached Eggs on Toast, 404. Key port Oysters, 298. 

Cold Bass, Ravigote sauce, 147. Menestra, 36. 

Mutton Chops, Broiled, with Bacon, 647, 754. Radishes, 292. Bologna Sausage, : 

Mashed Potatoes au Gratin, 998. Bluefish a PItalienne, 337. 

Kiimmel Jelly, 1323. Sirloin Pique a la Duchesse, 516. 

Beans Panachees, 950. 
Clint IlCfln Salmi of Doc birds a la Chasseur, 864. 

Fried Egg-plant, 907. 

Oyster Patties, 387. Roast Chicken, 755. 

Beefsteak Pie a 1'Anglaise, 487. Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Spinach, with Eggs, 940. ' Baked Apple Dumplings, 1122. 

Frangipani Tarts, 1121. Coffee, 1349. 



io6 



THE TABLE. 



Sunday, A ugust 



Breakfast. 



Dinner. 



Eggs a i'lmperatrice, 440. 

Hashed Turkey en Bordure, 805. , 

Broiled Fillets aux Pommes Parisienne, 515. 

Tomatoes a la Bock, 1026. 

Musk-melons. 



Ctmcljecm. 



Crabs a la St. Laurent, 372. 

Sirloin Steak a la Bordelaise, 491. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Japanese Salad, 1075. 
Stewed Prunes a la General Dufour, 1330. 



Clams, 300. 

Consomme Douglas, 114. 
Olives. Celery, 290. 

Frogs a la Bordeiaise, 399, 186. 
Escalops of Veal a la Duxelle, 569. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 
Squabs en Crapaudine, 819. 

Succotash, 1022. 
Punch en Surprise, 1309. 

Roast Turkey, 800. 

Lettuce with Cream Salad, 1059. 

Pudding Glace a la Frankie Cleveland, 1291. 

Camembert Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, August . 



Breakfast. 

Scrambled Eggs with Tomatoes, 406. 

Fried Scallops, 301. 
Flat Sausage and Mashed Potatoes, 719. 

Fried Onions, 969. 
Rice a la Franchise, 1180. 

uncl)eon. 

Broiled, Deviled Soft-shelled Crabs, 369. 
Veal Cutlets en Papillotes, 566. 

Lima Beans, 952. 

Anchovy Salad, 1037. 

Sweet Omelet, 475. 



Slinner. 



Small Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Puree Jackson, 43. 
Sardines, 283. Radishes, 292. 

Lobster Croquettes a la Victoria, 365, 208. 

Tenderloin of Beef, Pique a la Richelieu, 522. 

Cauliflower, sauce Hollandaise, 925, 160. 

Sweetbreads, with Asparagus-tops, 602. 

Boiled Green Corn, 962. 

Squabs sur Canape, 816. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Nelson Pudding, 1155. 

Mazagran a la General Bugeau, 1391. 



Tuesday, August . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet, with Peas, 459. 

Boiled Halibut, Butter sauce, 309, 157. 

Lamb Chops, with Bacon, 647, 754. 

Potatoes, maitre d'hotel.-gSs- 

Fresh Apricots. 

Citncljeon. 

Kingfish, maitre d'h&tel, 329. 

Beefsteak Pie a 1'Anglaise, 487. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Potato Salad, 1073. 
Chocolate Eclairs, 1243. 



Dinner. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Chicken a la Piemontaise, 63. 

Mortadella, 287. Tomatoes, 288. 

Codfish Steaks, black Butter, 310, 159. 
Brisotin of Veal, Poivrade sauce, 554. *94- 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Lamb Steak a 1'Americaine, 718. 

Asparagus, Cream sauce, 904, 181. 

Roast Stuffed Goose, 808. 

Tomato, Mayonnaise Salad, 1071. 

Sago Pudding, 1140- 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



107 



Wednesday, August . 



Breakfast. 



Hominy, with Cream, 1034. 

Kidney Omelet, 463. 

Broiled Beefsteak a la Parisienne, 495. 

Potatoes, Lyonnaise, 991. 

Stewed Pears, 1333. 

Ctmcljeon. 

Mussels a la Poulette, 379. 
Leg of Mutton, Caper sauce, 651. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 

Rhubarb Pie, 1085. 



Sinner. 

Chicken with Gumbo, 67. 
Celery, 290. Bologna Sausage, 286. 

Pompano, with Sorrel, 327. 

Corned Beef and Cabbage, 490. 

Broiled Venison Steaks, Currant Jelly, 884. 

Tomatoes a la Marseillaise, 1029. 

Roast Plovers, 865. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Maraschino Pudding, 1134. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday, August . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs k 1'Aurore, 444. 

Fried Porgies, 301. 

Hashed Turkey en Bordure, 805. 

Potatoes en Faille, 1014. 

Peaches and Cream. 

Cmuljecm. 

Salmon en Papillotes, 302. 

Braised Beef en Daube, 483. 

Macaroni au Gratin, 955. 

Chaussons, 1236. 



Dinner. 

Clams, 300. 

Beef al'Anglaise, 5. 

Thon, 282. Tomatoes, 288. 

Scallops, Brestoise, 392. 

Sweetbreads a la Bearnaise, 610. 

Green Peas a 1'Anglaise, 978. 

Lamb Chops, Maintenon, 685. 

Spinach a la Vieille Mode, 941. 

Roast Woodcock, 871. 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Banana Ice-cream, 1277. 

Pithiviers Cake, 1225. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, August . 



Breakfast. 

Omelet, with fine Herbs, 451. 

Broiled Kingfish, maitre d'hotcl, 329. 

Lamb Steak, Piquante sauce, 717. 

Stewed Green Corn, 964. 

Brioches Fluttes, 1204. 

uncl)eon. 

Stuffed Smelts, 355. 
Stewed Veal a la Marengo, 624. 

Sorrel au Gras, 974. 
Custard Pudding, 1154. 



E) inner. 



Bisque of Lobster, 10. 
Radishes, 292. Mortadella 287. 

Trout, Shrimp sauce, 311. 
Sirloin Steak, with Marrow, 493. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

Vol-au-Vent a la Financiere, 810. 

Cauliflower a la Vinaigrette, 1040. 

Roast Mutton, 585. 

Chicory Salad, 1046. 

Champagne Jelly, 1322. 

Fancy Almond Cakes, 1239. 

Coffee, 1349. 



io8 



THE TABLE. 



Saturday, August . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs, with Tarragon, 429. 

Broiled Ham, 753. 

Mutton Hash au Gratin, 653. 

Stewed Carrots, with Cream, 927. 

Whipped Cream a la Vanille, 1254. 



Cundjecn. 



Fried Whitebait, 301. 

Hashed Chicken, with Cre&m, 804. 

Asparagus a la Tessinoise, 906. 

Baba au Rhum, 1217. 



Slimier. 



Shrewsbury Oysters, 298. 
Cream of Artichokes, 72. 

Olives. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Weakfish, Hollandaise sauce, 160. 

Beef-tongue a la Jardiniere, 535. 

Lima Beans, 952. 
Chicken, Saute with Tarragon, 774. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. 

Roast Squab on Toast, 816. 

Cauliflower Salad, 1040. 

Parfait au Cafe, 1295. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, September . 



Breakfast. 



JBtnner. 



Eggs a la Vanderbilt, 420. 

Boned, Broiled Smelts, Bearnaise sauce, 353. 

Small Mignons Filets, Madeira Wine sauce, 509. 

185. 

Lima Beans Stewed with Cream, 952. 
Musk-melon. 



Broiled Trout, maitre d'hdtel, 314, 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 
Chops Soyer, with Potato Croquettes, 647, 997. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 
Jelly a la Castellar, 1325. 



Doxie Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Massena, 102. 

Radishes, 292. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Spanish-mackerel aux fines Herbes, 331. 

Fricandeau of Veal, with Sorrel, 577. 

Croustade of Chicken a la Dreux, 762. 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Punch a la Lalla Rookh, 1308. 

Roast Woodcock, 871. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

St. Honore a la Rose Delmonico, 1212. 

Pont-de-Val Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, September . 



Breakfast. 

Tomato Omelet, 459. 

Fried Soft-shelled Crabs, 368. 

Pig's Feet, sauce Piquante, 729. 

Potatoes, maitre d'h&tel, 985. 

Brioches a la Conde, 1203. 

Cunctyecm. 

Matelote of Eels, 332. 

Breast of Veal, Milanaise, 596. 

Celery, with Cream, 929. 

Coffee eclairs, 1244. 



Dinner. 

East River Oysters, 298. 

Julienne, 27. 
Celery, 290. Olives. 

Sole au Gratin, 319. 
Leg of Mutton, Bretonne, 650. 

Fried Egg-plant, 907. 
Chicken Croquettes, sauce Perigueux, 759. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 
Brochette of Reed-birds, with Bacon, 877, 754. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Pineapple Water-ice, 1283. 

Sponge Cake, 119^. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



ICQ 



Tuesday, September . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs h la Duchesse, 449. 

Salmon Tails, Broiled, 308 . 
CalPs Liver Saute a 1'Italienne, 580. 

Sorrel au Jus, 973. 
Apples and Rice Meringuees, 1169. 



nnd)eon. 



Frogs a la Poulette, 399. 

Tripe a la Mode de Caen, 547. 

Sweet Potatoes, Hollandaise, 999. 

Plum Pie, 1094. 



Sinner. 



Clams, 300. 

Clear Green Turtle, 18. 

Radishes, 292. Mortadella, 287. 

Chicken Halibut, Cream sauce, 309, 181. 
Lamb's Kidneys, stewed with Cepes, 714. 

String Beans, 948. 
Sweetbreads a la Pompadour, 618. 
Broiled Mushrooms on Toast, 916. 
Roast Lamb, Mint sauce, 1361, 169. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Charlottes Panachees, 1300. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, September 



Breakfast. 

Oatmeal. 

Omelet, with Kidneys, 463. 

Broiled Porterhouse Steak, 524. 

Fried Onions, 969. 

Fresh Pears. 

Cuncljeon. 

Oysters a la Mali, 386. 

Hashed Mutton a la Zingara, 652. 

Stuffed Egg-plant, 909. 

Russian Salad, 1065. 
Huckleberry Tarts, 1113. 



dinner. 



Keyport Oysters, 298. 
Consomme Celestine, 118. 
Celery, 290. Bologna Sausage, 2! 

Fresh Mackerel a la Venitienne, 338. 
'Braised Beef, Flamande, 482. 
Green Peas k la Franchise, 977. 
Pillau of Chicken a la Creole, 783. 

Sorrel, with Cream, 973. 

Roast Plover and Watercress, 865. 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad, 1060. 

Apricot Pudding a la Richelieu, 1151. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday \ September . ' 



Breakfast. 



Omelet, with Smoked Beef, 461. . 

Broiled Spanish -mackerel, 329. 
Lamb Fries, Broiled a la Diable, 672. 
Potatoes, Julienne, 1013. 
Peaches and Cream. 



Cuncljeon. 



Blackfish, White Wine, 342. 

Pigeon Cutlets a la Victoria, 815. 

Spinach, with Croutons, 940. 

Savarin, 1197. 



Dinner. 

Clams, 300. 

Mulligatawney, 34. 

Radishes, 292. Caviare, 281, 

Lobster a la Newburg, 359. 
Larded Tenderloin of Beef a la Bernardi, 523. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 
Vol-au-Vent a ia Toulouse, 811. 

Squabs sur Canape, 816. 

Celery Salad, Mayonnaise, 1042. 

Vanilla Ice-cream, 1271. 

Allumettes 1205. 

Coffee, 1349. 



I 10 



THE TABLE. 



Friday, September . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs au Beurre noir, 414. 

Fried Porgies, Tartare sauce, 3510, 207. 

Hashed Beef a la Catalan, 502. 

Stewed Fresh Tomatoes, 1027. 

Rice a la Bonne Femme, 1172. 



Ctmcl) 



eon. 



Picked-up Codfish, 346. 

Chicken a la Maryland, 785. 

Spaghetti a 1'Italienne, 960. 

Pineapple Pie, 1087. 



Dinner. 



Parker Bay Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Celery, 71. 
Olives. Radishes, 292. 

Scallops a la Poulette, 392, 379. 
Chicken Livers Sautes, with Madeira, 767. 

Artichokes, Barigoul, 896. 

Lamb Chops a la Villeroi, 686. 

Asparagus, sauce Hollandaise, 904. 

Roast English Snipe, 868. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

English Pudding, 1137. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, September . 



Breakfast. 

Omelet, with Green Peas, 459. 

Broiled Ham, 753. 

Tripe a la Creole, 545. 

Sweet Potatoes Soufflees, 1010. 

Baked Apples, 1124. 

Cunctyeon. 

Skate, with black Butter, 325, 159. 

Mutton Chops a la Provengale, 642. 

String Beans, with Cream, 946. 

Potato Salad, 1073. 
Sherry Wine Jelly, 1318. 



Dinner. 



Blue Point Oysters, 298. 

A la Russe, 55. 
Celery, 290. Mortadella, 287. 

Red-snapper, fine Herbs, 315. 
Epigrammes of Lamb, with Asparagus - tops, 

689. 

Lima Beans, 952. 
Croustade of Chicken Livers a la Dreux, 763. 

Roast Turkey, 800. 

Tomato, Mayonnaise Salad, 1071. 

Baba au Madere, 1217. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday^ September . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs a 1'Aurore, 444. 

Trout, maitre d'h&tel, 314. 

Hashed Chicken au Gratin, 805. 

Potatoes en Faille, 1014. 

Cream Renversee, 1252. 

Cttncl)eon. 

Crabs a la St. Laurent, 372. 

Calf s-head a la Cavour, 638. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Timbales a la Schultze, 263. 

Watsr-melon a la Seward, 1317. 



Dinner. 

Clams, 300. 

Cream a PAllemande, 84. 
Celery, 290. Olives. 

Whitebait, 301. 
Tenderloin Pique a la Duchesse, 516. 

Corn Saute au Beurre, 964. 
Salmi of Snipe a la Regence, 861. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Romaine Punch, 1304. 

Roast Ducklings, 824. 

Lettuce Salad, 1058. 

Cocoanut Pudding, 1147. 

Mazagran a la General Dufour, 1392. 



MENUS. 



I I I 



Monday, September . 

Breakfast. Dinner. 



Omelet, with fine Herbs, 451. 

Broiled Sea-bass, maitre d'hdtel, 329. 

Minced Veal a la Biscaenne, 576. 

Potatoes Sautees, 995. 

Musk-melon. 



Cundjeon. 



Fried Porgies, 320. 

Stewed Lamb with Potatoes, 659. 

Oyster-plant a la Poulette, 1019. 

Rhubarb Tarts, 1112. 



Linn Haven Oysters, 298. 

Rice and Tomatoes, 57. 

Anchovies, 284. Radishes, 292. 

Bluefish au Gratin, 319. 
Mignons Filets a la Parisienne, 514. 

Stuffed Cucumbers, 937. 

Salmi of Duck, with Olives. 827. 

Roast Mutton, 585. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Lemon Water-ice, 1279. 

Bitter Almond Macaroons, 1209. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday, September . 



Breakfast. 

Scrambled Eggs, with Mushrooms, 406. 

Codfish a 1'Hollandaise, 352, 160. 

Stewed Tripe a la Lyonnaise, 548. 

Green Corn Saute au Beurre, 964. 

French Pancake, 1186. 



unct)eon. 



Oyster Patties, 387. 
Hashed Turkey a la Polonaise, 803. 
Onions, with Cream, 968. 
Charlotte Russe, 1261. 



Dinner. 

Clams, 300. 
Bisque of Lobster, 10. 

Radishes, 292. Olives. 

Stuffed Deviled Crabs, 370. 
Braised Beef a 1'Orsini, 481. 

Lima Beans, 952. 

Chicken Saute a la Bordelaise, 776. 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Roast Loin of Veal, 585. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 
Omelet Celestine, 477. 
Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, September . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet Raspail, 467. 

Fried Smelts, Tomato sauce, 301, 205. 

Beefsteak with Watercress, 524. 

Saratoga Potatoes, ion. 
Preserved Strawberries, 1345. 



Citnrljcon. 



Stuffed Deviled Clams, 376. 

Veal Cutlets a la Philadelphia, 565. 

Sweet Potatoes, Hollandaise, 999. 

Rice and Orange Pudding, 1130. 



Dinner. 



Small Rockaway Oysters, 298. 
Consomme Imperiale, in. 
Olives. Celery, 290. 

Edible Snails a la Bourguignonne, 393. 
Broiled Sirloin Steaks a la Bearnaise, 492. 

Beans Panachees, 950. 

Vol-au-Vent a la Reine, 812. 

Oyster-plant a la Poulette, 1019. 

Roast Plovers, with Watercress, 865. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Pudding a la Diaz, 1135. 

Coffee, 1349. 



I I 2 THE TABLE. 



Thursday, September . 

Breakfast. dinner. 

Scrambled Eggs, with Truffles, 407. Oysters, 298. 

Fried Porgies, 320. Mikado', 32. 

Broiled Lamb Steak, Puree of Peas, 716. Celery> 290> Radishes, 292. 

Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. Lobster en Chevreuse, 362. 

Rice au Lait d'Amandes, 1170. Sweetbreads a la Colbert, 617. 

Green Peas, 978. 
Lamb Chops a la Clichy, 684. 
Broiled Boned Smelts, Tartare sauce, 353, Broiled Egg-plant, 908. 

207. Roast Woodcock, 871. 

Stewed Beef a la Dufour, 541. Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Broiled Mushroons on Toast, 916. Baba, Creme de Vanille, 1218. 

Apple Meringue Pie, 1103. Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, September . 

Breakfast. dinner. 

Crab Omelet, 455. Oysters, 298. 

Broiled Fresh Mackerel, maitre d'h&tel, 329. Cream of Sorrel, Fermiere, 81. 

Sausages a PItalienne, 737. Celery, 290. Bologna Sausage, 286. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. Pompano, Egg sauce, 309, 161. 

Brioche, 1201. Tenderloin of Beef a la Nivernaise, 503. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. 
Chicken Croquettes, with Green Peas, 276. 

Macaroni Napolitaine, 957. 
Mussels a la Mariniere, 378. Reed-birds, 877. 

Broiled Lamb Steaks a 1'Americaine, 718. Tomato Salad, 1070. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. Neapolitan Ice-cream, 1292. 

French Pancake a la Gelee, 1187. Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, September . 

Breakfast. dinner. 

Hominy and Cream, 1034. East River Oysters, 298. 

Ham and Eggs, 412, 753. Ox-tail a 1'Anglaise, 40. 

Brochette of Lamb a la Dumas, 674. Lyons Sausage, 286. Radishes, 292. 

Potatoes a la Hanna, 1012. Salmon a la Creole, 339. 

Fresh Pears. Saddle of Mutton, Currant Jelly, 666. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 
Pigeons en Compote, 822. 
Cardons a la Moelle, 931. 
Oysters a la Baltimore, 388. Roast Beef, 527 

Breast of Veal, Milanaise, 596. Chicory Salad, 1046. 

Sweet Potatoes, Hollandaise, 999. Rice Pudding, 1143. 

Cocoanut Pie, noi. Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



Sunday, September . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet, with Truffles, 460. 

Fried Whitebait, 301. 

Chicken Livers Sautes au Madere, 767. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Milan Cake, 1228. 



Cundjeon. 



Welsh Rarebit, Golden Buck, 295. 

Shoulder of Lamb, Macedoine, 697. 

Macaroni, with Cheese, 954. 

Salmon Salad, 1066. 
Green-gage Pie, 1093. 



Dinner. 

Clams, 300. 

Puree of Game a la Destaing, 89. 

Olives. Celery, 200. 

Broiled Soft-shelled Crabs a la Diable, 369. 

Veal Cutlets, St. Cloud, 561. 

Artichokes, Vinaigrette, 902. 

Chicken Fricasse a 1'Americaine, 781 . 

Cauliflower, Hollandaise, 925, 160. 

Punch a la Frangaise, 1311. 

Roast Woodcock, 871. 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad, 1060. 

Macedoine a la Cavour, 1298. 

Gorgonzolla Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, September . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs a la Bourguignonne, 411. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Sausages, with White Wine, 735. 

Hashed Potatoes, with Cream, 1003. 

Baked Apples, 1124. 



Cunctji 



jeon. 

Oysters a la Pompadour, 384. 

Brochette of Lamb, with Bacon, 674, 754. 

Macaroni a la Creme, 954. 

Herring Salad, 1074. 
Blackberry Tarts, 1119. 



Dinner. 

Small Blue Point Oysters, 298. 

Printanier Colbert, 121. 
Mortadella, 287. Radishes, 292. 

Fried Smelts, sauce Tartare, 301, 207. 
Breast of Turkey, Celery Sauce, 806, 200. 

String Beans, with Cream, 946. 

Croquettes of Sweetbreads, Bearnaise, 619, 166. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922 . 

Roast Grouse, 852. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Indian Pudding, 1145. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday, September . 



Breakfast. 

Tomato Omelet, 456. 

Broiled Bluefish, 329. 

Hashed Turkey en Bordure, 805. 

Potatoes en Paille, 1014. 

Stewed Rhubarb, 1112. 



Cuncljeon. 



Broiled Lobster a la Diable, 364. 
Stewed Mutton, Solferino, 656. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. 
French Pudding a la Delmonico, 1139. 

8 



Dinner. 

Clams, 300. 
Vermicelli, 103. 

Olives. Celery, 290. 

Spanish-mackerel a la Toulouse, 354. 
Calf s-head a la Vinaigrette, 640. . 

Stewed Corn, 964. 

Coquilles of Chicken a 1'Anglaise, 271. 
Artichokes Sautes, 897. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Rice a la Conde, 1181. 

Coffee, 1349. 



THE TABLE. 



Wednesday, September . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs au Miroir, 425. 

Boiled Fresh Haddock, Cream sauce, 352, 
Lamb Steak a I'Americaine, 718. 
Stewed Turnips, with Cream, 967. 
Musk-melon. 

uncl)eon. 

Codfish, Hollandaise sauce, 352, 160 

Veal Cutlets en Papillotes, 566. 

Spaghetti au Gratin, 961. 

Chocolate Eclairs, 1243. 



Dinner.. 



Small Rockaway Oysters, 298. 
181 Consomme Renaissance, 115. 

Radishes, 292. Anchovies, 284. 

Broiled Soft-shelled Crabs a la Diablc, 369. 

Broiled Tenderloin a la Bearnaise, 492. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Spring Lamb Chops a la Clichy, 684. 

Green Peas, 978. 

Roast Capon, 755. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Rice, with Apples, 1169. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday ) September . 



Breakfast. 

Oatmeal and Cream. 

Kidney Omelet, 463. 

Mutton Chops a la Proven^ale, 642, 

Succotash, 1022. 
Cream Renversee, 1252. 



uncl)eon. 



Fried Sea-bass, 320. 

Stewed Veal a la Marengo, 624. 

Sweet Potatoes, Hollandaise, 999. 

Mille-feuiiles, 1223. 



winner. 

Prince's Bay Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Patti, 126. 

Mortadella, 287. Celery, 290. 

Kennebec Salmon, Cream sauce, 303, 181. 

Grenadin of Veal a 1'Afncaine, 589. 

Beans Panachees, 950. 

Turban of Chicken a la Cleveland, 791. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 

Roast Snipe, 868. 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Peach Ice-cream, 1276. 

Vanilla Ice-cream, 1271. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, September . 



Breakfast. 

Omelet a 1'Espagnole, 472. 

Broiled Pompano, 329. 

Pork Chops, sauce Robert, 746. 

Broiled Sweet Potatoes, 983. 

Corn Fritters, 965. 

uncl)cm. 

Stuffed Deviled Clams, 376. 
Tendron of Veal, Puree of Lentils, 633, 
Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Crab Salad, 1047. 
Omelet au Kirseh, 476. 



JDtnner. 



Clams, 300. 

Fish Chowder, 12. 

Cucumbers, 289 Olives. 

Fresh Mackerel en Papillotes, 330. 
Cutlets of Venison, Port Wine sauce, 891. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 
Supreme of Chicken a la Rothschild, 790. 

Succotash, 1022. 

Roast Loin of Veal, 585. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Fruit Pudding, 1161. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



Saturday, September . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs a la Chipolata, 442. 

Broiled Sardines on Toast, 403. 

Hashed Mutton a la Zingara, 652. 

Stewed Carrots, 927. 
Preserved Cherries, 1347. 



Ctmcljeon. 



Broiled Boned Smelts, a la Bearnaise, 353. 
Braised Beef, Russian sauce, 485. 

Lima Beans, 952. 
Apricot Tarts, 1335. 



Dinner. 

Cherry Stone Oysters, 298. 

Jardiniere, 28. 

Celery, 290. Mortadella, 287. 

Kennebec Salmon a 1'Irlandaise, 307. 

Minced Veal a la Catalan, 575. 

Potatoes Hollandaise, 999. 
Salmi of Snipe a la Florentine, 857. 

Spinach, with Eggs, 940. 

Roast Goose, Apple sauce, 808, 168. 

Tomato Salad, 1070. 

Charlotte Russe, 1261. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, September . 



33reakfa0t. 

Hominy and Cream, 1034. 

Boiled Eggs. 

Broiled Deviled Soft-shelled Crabs, 369. 

Lamb Chops, Breaded, 643. 

Potatoes, maitre d'h6tel, 985. 

Brioche, 1201. 



)eon. 

Crabs a la St. Jean, 371. 

Broiled Turkey Legs a la Diable, 766. 

Stewed Green Corn, 964. 

Japanese Salad, 1075. 

Apple Fritters, 1191. 



Dinner. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Chicken a la Portugaise, 66. 

Lyons Sausage, 286. Radishes, 292. 

Smelts k la Toulouse, 354. 
Tenderloin of Beef a la Montglas, 503, 213. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 
Chicken Saute a la Bohemienne, 778. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Champagne Punch, 1307. 

Reed-birds en Brochette au Petit Sale, 877, 754. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Pudding a la U. S. Grant, 1159. 

Mazagran a la General Bugeau, 1391. 



Monday, September . 



Breakfa0t. 

Omelet, with fine Herbs, 451. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Hashed Chicken a la Creme, 804. 
French Fried Potatoes, 993. 
Iced Timbale of Rice, 1175. 



Ctmcljeon. 



Oysters a la Baltimore, 388. 

Chops Soyer, Fried Potatoes, 647. 

Sorrel au Gras, 974. 

Rhubarb Tarts, 1112. 



{Dinner. 



Doxie Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Cauliflower, 73. 
Celery, 290. Olives. 

Weakfish au Gratin, 319. 
Ballotin of Lamb, with Peas, 675. 

Fried Egg-plant, 907. 

Fillet of Chicken a la Patti, 789. 

Tomatoes a la Bock, 1026. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Lettuce Salad, 1058. 

Meringues Panachees, 1302. 

Coffee, 1349. 



n6 



THE TABLE. 



Tuesday, September 



Breakfast. 



Scrambled Eggs, with Asparagus-tops, 406. 

Bass, sauce Mayonnaise, 352, 206. 

Calfs Liver a 1'Alsacienne, 582. 

Stewed Lima Beans, 952. 

Stewed Prunes, 1330. 



Ctmcfyeon. 

Scallops Brestoise, 392. 

Curry of Lamb a 1'Indienne, 677. 

Sweet Potatoes Souffiees, 1010. 

Gingerbread, 1213. 



Dinner. 

Massachusetts Bay Oysters, 298. 

Consomme d'Orleans, 1 10. 

Radishes, 292. Lyons Sausage, ^86. 

Spanish-mackerel k 1'Italienne, 337. 

Sweetbreads a la Soubise, 606. 

Succotash, 1022. 
Broiled Venison Steaks, Currant Jelly sauce, 

884. 

Cepes Bordelaise, 913. 

Roast Chicken, with Watercress, 755. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Cherry Water-ice, 1282. 

Almond Cake, 1224. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, September . 



Breakfast. 



Poached Eggs on Toast, 404. 

Oysters en Brochette, with Bacon, 385. 

Minced Beef a la Catalan, 502. 

Stewed Potatoes, 995. 

Milan Cake, 1228. 



uncl)ecm. 



Codfish a la Proven9ale, 352, 642. 

Hashed Chicken, with Cream, 804. 

Herring Salad, 1074. 

Kirsch Jelly, 1319. 



HHnner. 

Clams, 300. 

Cream of Celery a 1'Espagnole, 86. 
Tomatoes, 288. Olives. 

Crawfish, Bordelaise, 360. 

Lamb Chops a la Robinson, 682. 

Corn, Stewed with Cream, 963. 

Curry of Chicken a 1'Espagnole, 793. 

Oyster-plant a la Poulette, 1019. 

Roast Partridges, 843. 

Cauliflower Salad, 1040. 

Nelson Pudding, 1155. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday, September . 



Breakfast. 



Scrambled Eggs, with Tomatoes, 406. 

Fried Eels, 335. 

Broiled Calfs Liver and Bacon, 584. 

Potatoes a 1'Hollandaise, 999. 

Peaches and Cream. 



Citncljeon. 



Frogs a la Poulette, 399. 

Chicken Pot-pie, 757. 

Mushrooms, Stewed with Cream, 915. 

Gooseberry Pie, 1091. 



JBtnner. 



East River Oysters, 298. 
Ox-tail a 1'Ecossaise, 39. 

Celery, 290. Mortadella, 287. 

Haddock with White Wine, 342. 
Boiled Turkey, Egg sauce, 798. 

Fried Egg-plant, 907. 
Sweetbreads a la Colbert, 617. 

String Beans, 948. 

Roast Woodcock, 871. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Baked Apple Dumplings, 1122. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. I I 7 



Friday, September . 

Breakfast. SHnner. 

Crab Omelet, 455. Clams 300. 

Broiled Fresh Mackerel, maitre d'h&tel, 329. Pure Faubonne ' 4- 

. , . D , Olives. Radishes, 292. 

Tripe a la Poulette, 546. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes. ^ ^^ *f f UCe ' 352 ' l6x ' 

Creme en Mousse au Cafe, 1253. Pork Chops Apple sauce, 748. 

Beans Panachees, 950. 
Chicken Croquettes a la Perigordine, 761. 
n. Green Peas, 978. 

Roast Leg of Mutton, 648. 

Fried Soft-shelled Crabs, 368. Celery Salad, 1041. 

Corned Beef with Kale-sprouts, 490. Lemon Ice-cream, 1278. 

Lobster Salad, 1061. Pithiviers Cake, 1225. 

Rum Omelet, 476. Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, September . 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Eggs a la Tripe, 419. Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Broiled Fresh Perch, 314. Consomme a 1'Anglaise, 119. 

Mutton Kidneys, Sautes a 1'Italienne, 663. Tomatoes, 288. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Potatoes Duchesse, 1006. Porgies aux fines Herbes, 315. 

French Pancake, 1186. Sweetbreads en Petites Caisses, 274. 

Stuffed Egg-plant, 909. 
Squabs en Crapaudine, 819. 
Green Peas a la Frangaise, 977. 
Pompano, with Sorrel, 327. Roast Saddle of Venison, 878. 

Broiled Sirloin Steaks a la Bordelaise, 491. Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Spaghetti a 1'Italienne, 663. Indian Pudding, 1145. 

Strawberry Tarts, 1117. Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, September . 

Breakfast. ?Dinner. 

Eggs a la Bennett, 447. Small Blue Point Oysters, 298. 

Broiled Spanish-mackerel, Anchovy Butter, Puree a la Gentilhomme, 90. 

329, 146. Celery, 290. Olives. 

Hashed Lamb, a 1'Anglaise, 688. Sheep's-head a la Creole, 339. 

Potatoes Julienne, 1013. Tenderloin of Beef a la Hussard, 5:9. 

Fresh Green-gages. Sorrel au Gras, 974. 

Chicken a la Ranhofer, 1363. 

n. Gardens a la Moelle, 931. 

Lobster a la Newburg, 359. Punch a la Lorenzo Delmonico, 1303. 

Breaded Veal Cutlets, Tomato sauce, 563. Woodcock sur Canape, 871. 

Russian Salad, 1065. Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Timbales a la Schultze, 263. Cabinet Pudding a la Sadi-Carnot, 1164. 

Rice and Cream a la Croce, 1296. Mazagran a la General Dufour, 1392. 



I I 8 



THE TABLE. 



Monday, September . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs au Soleil, 415. 

Picked-up Codfish, 346. 

Beefsteak with Watercress, 524. 

Saratoga Potatoes, ion. 

Stewed Apples, 1332. 

Cuncheon. 

Oyster Patties, 387. 

Lamb Chops a la Robinson, 682. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Vanilla Eclairs, 1245. 



Dinner. 

Clams, 300. 

Mock Turtle, 17. 

Sardines, 283. Radishes, 292. 

Bass a la Chambord, 343. 

Chartreuse of Partridge, 849. 

Curry of Chicken a la Creole, 794. 

Beans ' with cream, 94 6. 

Roast Loin of Lamb, 585. 

Lettuce Salad, 1058. 

Rhubarb Pie, 1085. 

Apricot Water-ice, 1285. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday, October . 



Breakfast. 



Dinner. 



Eggs a la Pauvre Femme, 417. 

Broiled Boned Smelts, Tartare sauce, 353, 207. 

Sausages, with White Wine, 735. 

Beet-roots, Sautes au Beurre, 911. 

Brioches Fluttes, 1204. 



White Porgies, with Fine Herbs, 315. 

Ragout of Veal a la Chasseur, 632. 

Cauliflower a PHollandaise, 925, 160. 

Mince Pie, 1082. 



Oysters, 298. 
Puree Mongole, 50. 

Olives. Celery, 290 

Striped Bass, with White Wine, 342. 

Brisotin of Veal a 1'Ecarlate, 555. 

Lima Beans, 952. 

Lamb Sweetbreads en Caisses, 274. 

Artichoke-bottoms, Florentine, 903. 

Roast Grouse sur Canape, 852. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Peach Pudding, 1150. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, October . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet a la Prove^ale, 457. 

Codfish a PHollandaise, 352, 160. 

Corned Beef Hash a la Zingara, 530. 

Saratoga Potatoes, 101 1. 

Fresh Pears. 



Crabs k la St. Laurent, 372. 

Blanquette of Veal a la Reine, 550. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Apple Cake, 1211. 



Dinner. 



Clams, 300. 

Croute-au-P6t, n. 

Radishes, 292. Anchovies, 284. 

Bluefish a la Venitienne, 338. 
Pigeon Cutlets a la Victoria, 815. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 
Filets Mignons a la Pompadour, 509. 

Green Corn, 962. 
Roast Saddle of Mutton, 664. 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Lemon Pudding, 1157. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



Tnursday, October . 



Breakfast. 



Din nor. 



Barley, with Cream. 

Eggs a la Turque, 439. 

Broiled Sirloin Steak, with Watercress, 491 

Potatoes, Chateau, 1009. 

Baked Apples, 1124. 



itnd) 



eon. 



Soles a la Joinville, 322. 
Hashed Chicken a la Royale, 801. 

Macaroni au Gratin, 955. 
Creme en Mousse au Cafe, 1253. 



East River Oysters, 298. 
Consomme Douglas, 114. 

Celery, 290. Sardines, 283. 

Spanish-mackerel, with fine Herbs, 331. 

Venison Steak, Colbert sauce, 881. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 
Sweetbreads a la Pompadour, 618. 

Green Peas, 978. 
Roast Red-head Ducks, 876. 

Lettuce Salad, 1059. 

Omelet Soufflees, 474. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, October . 



Breatffast. 



Oyster Omelet, 452. 

Haddock, Cream sauce, 352, 181. 

Pig's Feet a la St. Hubert, 727. 

Mashed Potatoes au Gratin, 998. 

Rice a la Frangaise, 1180. 



Cunctjeon. 



Lobster a 1'Americaine, 357. 

Beef Braised a la Providence, 480. 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Baked Apples, 1124. 



Dinner. 



Oak Island Oysters, 298. 

Busecca a la Milanaise, 7. 

Tomatoes, 288. Olives. 

Frogs a la Bordelaise, 398, 186. 
Amourettes of Lamb a la Diable, 672. 

Spaghetti a 1'Italienne, 960. 
Stewed Veal a la Chasseur, 632. 

Celery, with Gravy, 928. 

Roast Partridge sur Canape, 843. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Baba au Rhum, 1217. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, October . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs a la Bourguignonne, 411. 
Mutton Chops, with Watercress, 647. 

Broiled Bacon, 754. 
Potatoes a la Rice, 1007. 
Apricot Preserves, 1340. 



Ctmcljeon. 

Stuffed Oysters a la Mali, 386. 

Chicken Pot-pie, 757. 

Stuffed Cucumbers, 937. 

Cherry Tarts, mi. 



Dinner. 

Keyport Oysters, 298. 

Puree Soubise of White Beans, 92. 

Celery, 290. Mortadella, 287. 

Perch au Gratin, 356. 
Double Porterhouse Steak a la Bordelaise, 52;, 

491. 

Fried Egg-plant, 907. 
Salmi of Grouse a la Walter Scott, 856*. 

String Beans, 948. 
Roast Lamb, Mint sauce, 1361, 169. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 
PLtache Ice-cream, 1275. 

Small Meringues a la Ch. C. Delmonico, 1249. 
Coffee, 1349. 



120 



THE TABLE. 



Sunday, October . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet a 1'Espagnole, 472. 

Broiled Kingfish, 329. 
Hashed Turkey a la Creme, 804. 

Succotash, 1022. 
Whipped Cream a la Vanille, 1254. 



ttnd)eon. 



Terrapin a la Newburg, 396, 359. 

l;roiled Spring Chicken, with Bacon, 756. 

Sweet Potatoes Soumees, joio. 

Timbales a la Schultze, 263. 
Water-melon a la Romero, 1315. 



HHnner. 

Clams, 300. 

Consomme Renaissance, 115. 

Olives. Radishes, 292. 

Red-snapper, Egg sauce, 352, 161. 

Fricandeau of Veal, with Sorrel, 577. 

Supremes of Chicken a la Bayard, 787. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

Punch a la Cardinal, 1306. 

Roast Canvas-back Duck, 874. 

Fried Hominy, 1035. 

Celery Salad, Mayonnaise, 1042. 

Plum Pudding, 1163. 

English Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, October . 



Breakfast. 



dinner. 



Eggs a u Gratin, 418. 

Fish Balls, 347. 
Stewed Kidneys, with Madeira, 662. 

Potatoes, Julieni\e, 1013. 
Preserved Cherries, 1347. 



Cuncljecn. 



Scallops, Brestoise, 392. 

Hashed Turkey, with Cream, 804. 

Macaroni au Gratin, 955. 

Apricot Tarts, 1108. 



Shrewsbury Oysters, 298. 

Giblet, with Barley, 21. 

Celery, 290. Sardines, 283. 

Sheep's-head, maitre d'h&tel, 329. 

Sweetbreads a la Catalan, 616. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 
Tenderloin of Beefaux Gourmets, 508. 

French Peas. 

Roast Pigeons, with Gravy, 816. 

Barbe de Capucine Salad, 1038. 

Turban of Apples, 1174. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday, October . 



Breakfast. 

Omelet, with fine Herbs, 451. 

Fried Whitebait, 301. 

Andouillettes, Broiled, 742. 

Hashed Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. 

Rice, with Apples, Meringuees, 1169. 

Cuncljeon. 

Boned Boiled Smelts, sauce Bearnaise, 353. 
Cromcsquis a la Richelieu, 764. 

Spinach, with Croutons, 940. 
Prunes a la General Dufour, 1330. 



{Dinner. 



Clams, 300. 

Gumbo of Crabs, 24. 

Radishes, 292. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Bass en Matolote, 332. 
Hashed Lamb a la Polonaise, 700. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 
Partridge, Celery sauce, 847. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Russian Salad, 1065. 

Fritters, Soumees a la Vanille, 1192. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



121 



Wednesday, October . 



Breakfast, 

Eggs a Reine, 438. 

Black Basss, Caper sauce, 352, 651. 

Stewed Calf s Liver a 1'Italienne, 580. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Rice Cake,, 1222. 



Citncljeon. 



Pinner. 



Canape Madison, 269. 
broiled Lamb Steaks, Puree de Marrons, 

716,131. 

Sweet Potatoes, Hollandaise, 999. 
French Pudding a la Delmonico, 1139. 



Small Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Dubourg, 101. 
Olives. Celery, 290. 

Bluefish, Oyster sauce, 352. 
Saddle of Venison, Londondery sauce, 878, 880. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Larded Fillet of Beef a laSevigne, 520. 

Beans Panachees, 950. 

Roast Plover, 865. 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Charlotte Russe, ia6i. 

Coffee, 3 349. 



Thursday, October . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet, with fine Herbs, 451. 

Broiled Deviled Soft-shelled Crabs, 369. 

Hashed Beef au Gratin, 529. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 

Peach Marmalade, 1331. 



Ctmctyeon. 



Broiled Bluefish, maitre d'hotel, 329. 

Tendron of Veal, Nantaise, 633. 

Fried Potatoes, 993. 

Herring Salad, 1074. 

Savarin, 1197. 



Dinner. 



Clams, 300. 

Ox-tail a 1'Anglaise, 40. 
Watercress, 1072. Lyons Sausage, 286 

Matelote of Eels, 332. 
Roast Ham, Champagne sauce, 723. 

Carrots a la Bechamel, 9 -'7, 154. 
Venison Chops, Port Wine sauce, 891. 

Sorrel au Gras, 974. 
Roast Squabs on Toast, 816. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

English Pudding, 1137. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, October . 



3Breakfa0t. 



Eggs a la Vanderbilt, 420. 

Broiled Sardines on Toast, 403. 

Lamb Chops a la Robinson, 682. 

Sweet Potatoes, Broiled, 983. 

Preserved Strawberries, 1345. 

Cnncljeon. 

Fillet of Soles, maitre d'hfltel, 326. 

Hamburg Steak, Russian sauce, 526. 

Spaghetti Napolitaine, 959. 

Lobster Salad, 1061. 
Iced Timbale of Rice, 1175. 



JDtnner. 



Linn Haven Oysters, 298. 

Bisque of Crabs, 9. 

Cucumbers, 189. Oli\ 

Stuffed Deviled Lobster, 367. 
Curry of Lamb a 1'Indienne, 677. . 

Cepes a la Bordelaise, 913. 

Vol-au-Vent Financiere, 810. 

Flageolets, 1365. 

Roast Grouse, 852. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Omelet au Kirsch, 476. 

Coffee, 1349. 



122 THE TABLE. 



Saturday, October . 

Breakfast Dinner. 

Hominy and Cream, 1034. Parker Bay Oyster?, 298. 

Scrambled Eggs, with Ham, 408. Consomme d'Orleans. no. 

Broiled Porterhouse Steak, 524. Celery, 290. Bologna Sausage, z 

Lyonnaise Potatoes, 991. Broiled Deviled Soft-shelled Crabs 369. 

Wheat Cakes, 1184. Sweetbreads au Salpicon, 605. 

Tomatoes a la Marseillaise, 1029. 

Squabs en Compote, 822. 
Cauliflower, sauce Hollandaise, 925, 160. 

Codfish Tongues, Cream sauce, 349, 181. Saddle of Venison, Currant Jelly, 878. 

Minced Tenderloin, Portugaise, 501. Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. Meringues a 1'Helvetienne, 1251. 

Boiled Apple Dumplings, 1127. Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, October . 

Breakfast. 

Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Eggs, with Celery, 427- Westmoreland, 33. 

Eroded Spanish-mackerel, maitre d h6tel. 329. Q ^^ Radishes, 292. 

Mutton K.dneys, Sautes aux Champ.gnons, 7x4. Te ^ ^ M 

Sweet Potatoes Soufflees, ,010. R of Sweetbreads, Richelieu, 57 4- 

Maraschino Cream, ,a S7 . Green p ^ 

Chicken, Saute a la Regence, 777. 
Stuffed Egg-plant, 909. 

Oranges Glacees a la George Renauldt, 1297. 

Mussels a la Manmere, 378. _ j u j ^ i o * 

Roast Red-head Duck, 876. 
Tripe a la Bordelaise, 544. .-, . ,-, , , 

Celery Salad, 1041. 
Broiled Grouse a la Pomeroy. 1390. _ ... , , -r^- 

Pudding a la Diaz, 1135. 
Cauliflower Salad, 1040. 

Camembert Cheese. 
German Pancake, with Apples, 1189. ff 



Monday, October . 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Omelet aux Saucisses, 465. Shrewsbury Oysters, 298. 

Boiled Chicken Halibut, Cream sauce, 309, 181. Spaghetti, with Tomatoes, 56. 

Beefsteak, with Watercress, 524. Sardines, 283. Celery, 290. 

Fried Saratoga Potatoes, ion. Fried Sea-bass, sauce Tartare, 320, 707. 

Fresh Grapes. Broiled Deviled Turkey Legs, 766. 

Stewed Onions and Cream, 968. 

4Titnrhintt Lamb Ch P s ' maison d>or > 68 3- 

Stuffed Tomatoes k la Reme, 1024. 

Perch, Remoulade sauce, 314, 209. Roast Snipe sur Canape, 868. 

Veal Cutlets, Pagasqui, 560. Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Oyster-plant, Poulette, 1019. Bread Pudding, 1132. 

Cranberry Tarts, 1116. Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



I2 3 



Tuesday, October . 



Breakfast. 



Dinner. 



[Scrambled Eggs, with Asparagus-tops, 406. 

Fried Smelts, Tomato sauce, 301, 205. 

Broiled Lamb Fries, 672. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Corn Fritters, 965. 



Cimcljeon. 



Red-snapper, sauce Hollandaise, 352, 160. 

Stewed Veal, Marengo, 624. 

Spinach, with Eggs, 943. 

Chaussons, 1236. 



Parker Bay Oysters, 298. 

Clear Green Turtle, 18. 

Olives. Watercress, 1072. 

Salmon en Papillotes, 302. 
Tenderloin of Beef a la Cheron, 504. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. 

Supreme of Grouse a la Perigueux, 850. 

Cardons, with Marrow, 931. 

Roast Chicken au Jus, 755. 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad, 1060. 

Chocolate Ice-cream, 1272. 

Lady-fingers, 1231. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, October . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet Raspail, 467. 

Fried Scallops, Tartare sauce, 301, 207. 

Broiled CalPs Liver and Bacon, 584. 

Stewed Turnips, with Gravy, 967. 

Fresh Pears. 



Cuncljeon. 



Smelts au Gratin, 356. 

[Broiled Squabs on Toast, 817. 

Gumbo a 1'Espagnole, 1030, 472. 

Rice Pudding, with Pineapple, 1130. 



Dinner. 



Clams, 300. 

Chicken a la Piemontaise, 63. 

Radishes, 292. Celery, 290. 

Fresh Mackerel a la Bearnaise, 353. 

Beef-tongue, with Spinach, 536. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Supreme of Chicken, Toulouse, 786. 

Peas a 1'Ancienne Mode, 976. 

Roast Reed-birds, 877. 

Macedoine Salad, 1063. 

Omelet Soufflee, 474. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday, October . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs a la Meyerbeer, 437. 

Baked Sea-bass, 319. 

Minced Veal, Biscaenne, 576. 

Potatoes, Duchesse, 1006. 

Buckwheat Cakes, 1183. 

Cuncljeon. 

Lobster a la Bordelaise, 360. 
Pork and Beans, 752. 
Suedoise Salad, 1069. 
Mille-feuilles, 1223. 



Dinner. 



Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Sorrel, Fermiere, 81. 
Mortadella, 287. Radishes, 292. 

Clams, Mariniere, 377. 
Chicken Croquettes, with Green Peas, 758. 

Stuffed Artichokes, 901. 
Broiled Tenderloin a la Stanton, 1388. 

Succotash, 1022. 

Roast Grouse, 852. 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Meringues a 1'Helvetienne, 1251. 

Coffee, 1349. 



124 



THE TABLE. 



Friday, October . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet a la Vanderbilt, 471. 

Boiled Codfish, black Butter, 352, 159. 

Brochette of Lamb a la Dumas, 674. 

Green Corn, Saute au Beurre, 964. 

Preserved Peaches, 1340. 

Ctmdjeon. 

Canape Lorenzo, 391. 

Minced Beef a la Portugaise, 501. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Anchovy Salad, 1037. 

Pumpkin Pie, 1099. 



EUnner. 



Clams, 300. 
Oyster Soup, 26. 

Olives. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Pompano, maitre d'hdtel, 329. 

Sweetbreads, with Spinach, 607. 

Saddle of Venison, Currant Jelly, 878. 

Stuffed Cucumbers, 937. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Chicory Salad, 1046. 

Rice au Lait d'Amande, 1170. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, October . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet aux Cepes, 460. 

Picked-up Codfish, 346. 

Mignons Filets, Madeira sauce, 509, 185. 

Stewed Potatoes, Hollandaise, 999. 

Stewed Apricots, 1335.. 



Cundjecm. 



Stuffed, Deviled Crabs, 370. 
Blanquette of Veal al'Ancienne, 553. 
. French Peas. 
Hot Savarin, 1197. 



SHnner. 



Oysters, 298. 

Brunoise, with Rice, 3. 

tomatoes, 288. Mortadella, 287. 

Sole a la Horly, 321. 
Roast Ham, with Sweet Corn, 724. 

String Beans, with Cream, 946. 
Salmi of Duck a la Marechale. 831. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

Roast Loin of Lamb, Mint sauce, 585, 169. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Sago Pudding, 1140. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, October . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs a la Livingstone, 410. 
Broiled Fresh Mackerel, fines Herbes, 331. 

Stewed Tripe a la Creole, 545. 

Sweet Potatoes a 1' Hollandaise, 999. 

Cream Renversee, 1252. 



uncl)eon. 



Terrapin a la Baltimore, 396. 
Broiled Chicken Legs a la Diable, 766. 

Cauliflower Salad, 1040. 

Timbales Foies-Gras, Lagadere, 809. 

Riz a la Bonne Femme, 1172. 



S) inner. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Consomme a 1'Andalouse, 117. 

Celery, 290. Radishes, 292. 

Broiled Spanish-mackerel, 329. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 
Breast of Lamb a la Jardiniere, 702. 

Potatoes a la Hanna, 1012. 

Tenderloin of Beef a la Bordelaise, 491. 

Green Peas a la Creme, 980. 

Champagne Punch, 1307. 

Roast Partridge, Larded, 843. 

Lettuce Salad, 1059. 

St. Honore a la Rose Delmomco, 1212. 

Stilton Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



I2 5 



Monday, October . 



Breakfast. 



JDinner. 



Omelet, with fresh Tomatoes, 456. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Black Sausage, mashed Potatoes, 719. 

Fried Egg-plant, 907. 

Brioche, 1201. 



jeon. 

Broiled Salt Mackerel, 329. 

Stuffed Onions, 970. 
Shoulder of Lamb, Rouennaise, 698. 

Fried Corn, 965. 
Custard Pudding, 1154. 



Rockaway Oysters, 298. 
Consomme Sevigne, 106. 

Olives. Watercress, 1072. 

Croquettes of Lobster, Tomato sauce, 365, 205. 

Filets Mignons a la Brown, 1382. 

Spinach, with Eggs, 940. 

Boiled Turkey, Oyster sauce, 797. 

Stuffed Green Peppers, 975. 

Snipe sur Canape, 868. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Pineapple Fritters, 1191. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday, October . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs a 1'Alsacienne, 443. 

Broiled Pompano, 329. 

Breaded Veal Cutlets, Tomato sauce, 563. 

Saratoga Potatoes, ion. 

Milan Cake, 1228. 



HHnner. 



Ctmcljeon. 



Spanish-mackerel a la Toulouse, 354. 

Lamb Kidneys a la Colbert, 712. 

Macaroni au Gratin, 955. 

Peach Tarts, 1106. 



East River Oysters, 298. 

Printanier Grenat, 51. 

Thon, 282. Celery, 290. 

Fried Porgies, Tartare sauce, 301, 207. 

Croquettes of Lamb, a la Patti, 679. 

Stewed Carrots, with Cream, 927. 

Ballotin of Squab a 1'Italienne, 818. 

Mushrooms on Toast, 916. 

Roast Reed-birds, 877. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Apples with Rice a la Czar, 1173. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday^ October . 



Breakfast. 

Scrambled Eggs i la Chicoree, 409. 

Codfish Tongues, brown Butter, 349. 

Hashed Lamb a la Polonaise, 700. 

Sorrel, with Gravy, 974. 
Preserved Raspberries, 1346. 



Ctmctyeon. 



Red-snapper, Egg sauce, 352, 161. 

Curry of Chicken a 1'Indienne, 792. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Green-gage Pie, 1093. 



Dinner, 



Clams, 300. 

Giblets a 1'Anglaise, 22. 

Radishes, 292. Olives. 

Salmon, Anchovy Butter, 303, 146. 

Lamb Chops, mnison d'or, 683. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Vension Steak, Londonderry sauce, 880. 

Celery, with Cream, 929. 

Roast Capon, 755. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Omelet Celestine, 477. 

Coffee. 1349. 



126 



THE TABLE. 



Thursday, Qctober . 



Breakfast. 

Poached Eggs on Toast, 404. 

Scallops, with White Wine, 342. 

Minced Beef a la Provenc.ale, 500. 

Potatoes en Paille, 1014. 

Apples Meringuees, 1248. 



Cunctjeon. 



Oysters a la Baltimore, 388. 
Beefsteak Pie a I'Americaine, 488. 

Salad /talienne, 1036. 
Strawberry Tarts, 1117. 



JDinntr. 

Massachusetts Bay Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Royale, 107. 
Celery, 290. Sausage, 286. 

Kingfish aux fines Herbes, 331. 
Saddle of Mutton, Poivrade sauce, 667. 

Green Peas a 1'Anglaise, 978. 

Croquettes of Sweetbreads, 620. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922 . 

Roast Woodcock, 871. 

Celery Salad, 1042. 

Orange Water-ice, 1280. 

Almond Biscuits, 1235. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, October . 



Breakfast. 

Cheese Omelet, 469. 
Fried Soft-shelled Crabs, 368. 

Sausage a Htalienne, 737* 

Potatoes, Sautees au Beurre, 994. 

Stewed Prunes, 1330. 



fiuncljeon. 



Smelts a la Joinville, 322. 

Stewed Mutton, Portugaise, 658. 

Russian Salad, 1065. 

Allumettes, 1205. 



Dinner. 



Clams, 300. . , 
Pot-au-Feu, 54. 
Radishes, 292 Olives. 

Bass a la Chambord, 343. 
Tenderloin, Pique a la Sevigne, 520. 

Succotash, 1022. 

Veal Cutlets a la Milanaise, 563. 
Asparagus-tops, Hollandaise, 904. 

Roasted Plovers, 865. 

Barbe de Capuoine Salad, 1038. 

Chocolate Pudding, 1146. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, October . 



Breakfast. 



Winnti. 



Fried Eggs, 412. 

Boiled Halibut, sauce Hollandaise, 309, 160. 

Broiled Deviled Beefsteak, 524. 

Potatoes, Parisienne, 986. 

Stewed Quinces, 1338. 



Cmtctjeon. 



Oysters en Brochette, with Bacon, 385. 

Blanquette of Veal, with Green Peas, 551. 

Spinach aux Croutons, 940. 

Omelet au Rhuin, 476. 



Small Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Sorrel, with Rice, 42. 
Lyons Sausage, 286. Celery, 290. 

Bluefish a 1'Icarienne, 336. 
Amourettes of Lamb, Tomato sauce, 673. 

String Beans au Blanc, 947. 

Beef-tongue a la Milanaise, 538. 

Oyster-plant a la Poulette, 1019. 

Roast Squabs, 816. 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Baba, Cream a la Vanille, 1218. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



127 



Sunday, October 



Breakfast. 



(Dinner. 



Green Peas Omelet, 459. 
Broiled White Perch, Anchovy Butter, 329, 

146. 

Hashed Turkey k la Bechamel, 802. 

Broiled Tomatoes, 1025. 

Baked Apples, 1124. 



ttncl)eon. 



Broiled Lobster a la Ravigote, 363. 
Chicken Croquettes a 1'Ecarlate, 760. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Timbales a la Schultze, 263. 
Peach Pie, 1092. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Consomme Imperial, in. 

Olives. Radishes, 292. 

Stuffed Deviled Crabs, 370. 
Tenderloin of Beef, Pique a la Bernardi, 523. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Sweetbreads, Larded a la Financiere, 603. 

Green Peas a 1'Anglaise, 978. 

Punch a la Frangaise, 1311. 

Roast Woodcock, 871. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Vanilla Ice-cream, 1271. 

Petites Bouchees a la Mme. Astor, 1238. 

Camembert Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, October . 



Breakfast 



Dinner. 



Oatmeal and Cream. 

Omelet aux Saucisses, 465. 

Brochette of Lamb, Colbert, 674, 190. 

Saratoga Potatoes, ion. 

Apple Fritters, 1191. 



Cnndjeon. 



Oysters a la Mali, 386. 
Broiled Grouse a la Pomeroy, 1390. 

Tomatoes a la Bock, 1026. 
Creme en Mousse au Curagoa, 1259 



Chincoteague Oysters, 298. 

Puree Conde, 48. 

Tomatoes, 288. Frizzled Celery, 291. 

Frogs a 1'Espagnole, 401. 
Calfs-head en Tortue, 641. 

Stewed Corn, 963. 
Supreme of Chicken a la Patti, 789. 
Gardens, with Marrow, 931. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Farina Pudding, 1144. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday, October . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs a 1'Aurore, 444, 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Veal Kidneys, Stewed a la Provengale, 625. 

Lima Beans, with Cream, 952. 

French Pancake, 1186. 



fitmcljeon. 



Soles au Gratin, 319. 

Veal Cutlets a la Philadelphia, 565. 

Croquettes of Macaroni, 279. 

Lemon Pie, 1086. 



(Dinner. 



East River Oysters, 298. 
Gumbo, with Frogs, 23. 

Radishes, 292. Caviare, 281. 

Fried Black-bass, aux fines Herbes, 331. 
Tenderloin, Pique a la Duchesse, 516. . 

Fried Egg-plant, 907. 
Civet of Vension a la Frangaise, 807. 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 
Broiled Grouse a 1'Americaine, 844. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Savarin a 1'Anglaise, 1199. 

Coffee, 1349. 



128 



THE TABLE, 



Wednesday, October . 



Breakfast 



Omelet, with Asparagus- tops, 458. 

Boned Broiled Smelts, Bearnaise. 353. 

Corned Beef Hash a PAmericaine, 529. 

Stewed Carrots and Cream, 927. 

Preserved Plums, 1343. 

uncl)0tt. 

Stuffed Deviled Lobster, 367. 

Squabs a la Chipolata, 821. 

Cauliflower. Vinaigrette, 1040. 

Charlottes Panachees, 1300. 



Dinner. 

Oysters, 298. 

Puree of Partridge a la Destaing, 89. 

Celery, 290. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Broiled Spanish-mackerel, maitre d'hotel, 329. 

Mutton Chops a la Robinson, 682. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Sweetbreads a la Pompadour, 618. 

Tomatoes a la Bock, 1026. 

Roast Chicken, 755. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Tapioca Pudding, 1141. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday, October . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs a la Bonne Femme, 432. 

Fried Black-bass, 320. 
Veal Cutlets a la Philadelphia, 565. 

Fried Potatoes, 993. 
Rice a la Franvjaise, 1180. 

Cuncljeon. 

Oysters a la Poulette, 383. 

Lamb Chops a la Signora, 68 1. 

Sweet Potatoes Soufflees, 1010. 

Chicken Salad, 1044. 

Madeleine Printaniere, 1227. 



Sinner. 



Clams, 300. 

Cream of Asparagus, 70. 
Olives. Radishes, 292. 

Pompano, maitre d'h6tel, 329. 
Boiled Turkey a la Baltimore, 799. 

Stewed Lima Beans, 952. 
Filets Mignons aux Gourmets, 508. 

Spinach, with Gravy, 943. 
Roast Canvas-back, Currant Jelly, 874, 1326. 

Celery Salad, 1042. 

Biscuits Tortoni, 1287. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, November . 



Breakfast. 



dinner. 



Tomato Omelet, 456. 

Boiled Halibut, Lobster sauce, 309, 158 

Lamb Chops, with Bacon, 647, 754. 

Potatoes, Lyonnaise, 991. 

Stewed Apples, 1332. 



Cuncljeon. 

Soft Clams a la Merrill, 389. 

Beefsteak Pie a 1'Anglaise, 487. 

Lobster Salad, 1061. 

Lemon Pudding, 1157. 



Oysters, 298. 

Printanier Chasseur, 52. 

Lyons Sausage, 286. Celery, 29*. 

Pompano, with Sorrel, 327. 

Brisotm of Veal, Poivrade sauce, 554, 194. 

Oyster-plant, Poulette, 1019. 

Chicken a la Maryland, 785. 

Artichokes, Barigoul, 896, 

Roast Quails on Toast, 834. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Strawberry Ice-cream, 1274. 

Lady-fingers, 1231. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



I2Q 



Saturday, November . 



Breakfast. 



dinner. 



Eggs a la Duchesse, 449. 

Pig's Feet, Robert sauce, 728. 

Corned Beef Hash a la Zingara, 530. 

Fried Egg-plant, 907. 

Pears and Grapes. 



Cundjeon. 



Halibut Steaks, aux fines Herbes, 310, 331. 

Stewed Lamb, with Flageolets, 707. 

Fried Sv/eet Potatoes, 993. 

Choux a la Creme, 1246. 



Doxie Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Consomme a 1' Anglaise, 1 19. 
Olives. Watercress, 1072. 

Red-snapper a 1'Icarienne, 336. 
Beef-tongue a la Napolitaine, 534. 

Lima Beans, 952. 

Venison Steak, Puree of Chestnuts, 882. 
Potatoes en Surprise, 1005. 

Roast Veal, 585. 

Tomato Salad, 288. 

Rice Pudding, 1143. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, November . > 



Breakfast. 



Eggs a la Paysanne, 433. 
Fresh Mackerel aux fines Herbes, 331. 

Hashed Turkey en Bordure, 805. 

Stewed Lima Beans, with Cream, 952. 

Whipped Cream a la Vanille, 1254. 



Ctmdjeon. 



Canape Lorenzo, 391. 
Broiled Squabs au Petit Sale, 817. 

Stewed Carrots, 927. 
Lobster Salad a la Plummer, 1062. 
Pie a la Martha Washington, 1105; 



dinner. 

Clams, 300. 

Cream of Game, 83. 

Celery, 290. Radishes, 292. 

Lobster a la Newburg, 359. 

Sweetbreads a la Bearnaise, 610. 

Green Peas a la Franchise, 977. 

Lamb Chops, Maintenon, 685. 

Cauliflower a 1'Holiandaise, 925, 160. 

Punch en Surprise, 1309. 

Roast Partridges, with Watercress, 843. 

Celery, Mayonnaise Salad, 1042. 

Pudding a la U. S. Grant, 1159. 

Neuchatel Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, November . 



Breakfast. 

Omelet, with Green Peas; 459. 

Broiled Smelts, Tartare sauce, 353, 207. 

Venison Steak, sauce Piquante, 879, 203. 

Mashed Potatoes au Gratin, 998. 

Brioches Fluttes, 1204. 

Cundjeon. 

Scallops Brestoise, 392. 

Fricandeau of Veal a la Morlaisienne, 579. 

String-bean Salad, 1068. 

Cranberry Pie, 1104. 



dinner. 

Blue Point Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Lima Beans, 75. 

Olives. Sardines, 283. 

Broiled Frogs, maitre d'h6tel, 398. 
Sirloin Steak, with Marrow sauce, 493. 

Stuffed Cucumbers, 937. 
Chicken Vol-au-Vent a la Reine, 812. 

Celery, with Gravy, 928. 
Roast Grouse sur Canape, 832. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Vermicelli Pudding, 1142. 

Coffee, 1349. 



THE TABLE. 



Tuesday, November . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs au Soleil, 415. 

Codfish al'Hollandaise, 352. 160. 

Stewed Calf's Liver a 1'Alsacienne, 582. 

Potatoes, maitre d'h6tel, 985. 

Rice a la Conde, 1181. 



Cunct)j 



jeon. 

Crabs a la St. Jean, 371. 

Broiled Quails on Toast, 835. 

Fried Egg-plant, 907. 

Potato Salad, 1073. 

French Pudding a la Delmonico, 1139 



EHnner. 

Mill Pond Oysters, 298. 

Onion Soup, 130. 
Frizzled Celery, 291. Tomatoes, 288. 

Matelote of Eels, 332. 

Partridge, with Cabbage, 845. 

Sweetbreads Larded a la Financiere, 603. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Roast Lamb, 585. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

O/nelet Soufflee, 474. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, November . 



Breakfast. 

Omelet, Vanderbilt, 471. 

Broiled Sardines on Toast, 403. 

Sausages Gastronome, 740. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Rhein-wine Jelly, 1324. 

Ctmctyeon. 

Soles a la Horly, 321. 

Civet of Venison a la Fra^aise, 887. 

Lamb-tongue Salad, 1056. 

Eclairs a la Vanille, 1245. 



Sinner. 

Oak Island Oysters, 298. 

Mulligatawney a la Delmonico, 35. 

Caviare, 281. Radishes, 292. 

Frogs a 1'Espagnole, 401. 
Fillet of Hare, sauce Poivrade, 895. 

French Peas. 
Chicken Croquettes a la Perigueux, 759. 

Stuffed Egg-plant, 909. 
Broiled Red-heads, Currant Jelly, 876, 1326. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Apple Pudding a 1'Helvetienne, 1152. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday, November . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs al'Aurore, 444. 

Fish BaNs, 347. 

Calf s-head a la Vinaigrette, 640. 

Hashed Potatoes, with Cream, 1003. 

Peach Marmalade, 1331. 



uncl)i 



JDinner. 



}eon. 

Broiled Salmon Steaks, Anchovy Butter, 310, 

146. 

Tripe a la Creole, 545. 

Spaghetti au Gratin, 961, 

Hot Savarin, 1198. 



Clams, 300. 

Chicken a la Richmond. 62. 
Celery, 290. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Sheep's-head, with fine Herbs, 331. 
Tenderloin of Beef, Pique aux Cepes, 496. 

Succotash, 1022. 
Sweetbreads a la Pompadour, 618. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. 
Roast Quails, with Watercress, 834. 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Pound Cake, Glace, 1193. 

Coffee, 1349- 



MENUS. 



Friday, November . 



Breakfast 

Omelet, Mexicaine, 473. 

Fried Perch, 320. 

Veal Cutlets, Pagasqui, 560. 

Potatoes en Paille, 1014. 

Buckwheat Cakes, 1183. 

Ctmdjeott. 

Fillet of Sole a la Venitienne, 338. 
Shoulder of Lamb, Jardiniere, 696. 

Stuffed Lettuce, 953. 
IcedTimbale of Rice, 1175. 



EUmter. 

Oysters, 298. 
Clam Chowder, 13. 

Radishes, 292. Thon, 282, 

Boiled Halibut, Shrimp sauce, 309, 178. 

Beef-tongue a la Gendarme, 532. 

Spinach, with Croutons, 940. 
Chicken, Saute with Tarragon, 774. 
Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 
Roast Woodcock, 871. 
Tomato Salad, 1070. 
Baked Apple Dumplings, 1122. 
Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, November . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs, with brown Butter, 414. 

Fried Smelts, Tomato sauce, 301, 205. 

Minced Veal a la Biscaenne, 576. 

Potatoes, Duchesse, 1006. 
Stewed Prunes a la Dufour, 1330. 



Ctmctyeon. 



Red-snapper a 1'Hollandaise, 317. 

Gibelotte of Hare, 894. 

Sorrel au Gras, 974. 

Cherry Tarts, mi. 



HHnner. 

Rockaway Oysters, 298. 
Giblets, with Rice, 19. 
Celery, 290. Bologna Sausage, 286. 

Broiled Salmon, maitrc d'hotel, 308. 
Mignons Filets a la Bearnaise, 509, 166. 

Succotash, 1022. 
Game Croquettes, Madeira-wine sauce, 833, 

185. 

Tomatoes a la Bock, 1026. 

Roast Quails, 834. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Fritters Soufflees a la Vanille, 1192. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, November . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet a la Vanderbilt, 471. 

Picked-up Codfish, 346. 
Corned Beef Hash au Gratin, 529. 

Baked Potatoes. 
Creme Renversee, 1252. 



Cuncljeon. 



Soft Clams a la Merrill, 389. 
Stuffed Pig's Feet a la Perigueux, 732. 

Lima Beans, 952. 

Lobster Salad a la Plummer, 1062, 
Charlotte Russe, 1261. 



SHttner. 

East River Oysters, 298. 
Puree of Partridge a la Gentilhomme, 90. 
Radishes, 292. Olives. 

Lobster a la Newburg, 359. 

Epigrammes of Lamb, Macedoine, 689. 

Supreme of Chicken a laPatti, 789. 

Green Peas a 1'Anglaise, 978. 

Kirsch Punch, 1305. 

Canvas-back Ducks, 874. 

Lettuce Salad, 1058. 

Plum Pudding, 1163. 

English Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



132 



THE TABLE, 



Monday, November . 



Breakfast, 



Scrambled Eggs, with Asparagus-tops, 406. 

Broiled Bluefish, 329. 

Hashed Lamb a la Polonaise, 700. 

Potatoes, Julienne, 1013. 

Rice a 1'Airolo, 1171. 

Cunctjeon. 

Oysters a la Mali, 386. 

Chops, Soyer, 647. 

Potatoes, Duchesse, 1006. 

Carrots, with Cream, 927. 

Pear Pie, 1084. 



Dinner. 



Clams, 300. 
Croute-au-Pot, u. 
Celery, 290. Tomatoes, 2! 

Smelts a la Toulouse, 354. 
Civet of Rabbit a la Parisienne, 888. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. 

Croustade of Chicken a la Dreux, 762. 

Red-heads and Hominy, 876, 1035. 

Celery Salad, 1042. 
Baba au Madere, 1217. 
Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday, November . 



Breakfast. 

Sausage Omelet, 465. 

Bass a la maitre d'h&tel, 326. 

Mutton Chops, Breaded, 643, 

Saratoga Potatoes, loii. 

Corn Fritters, 965. 

Cuncljeon. 

Broiled Oysters en Brochette au Petit Sale, 385. 
Broiled Quails on Toast, 835. 

Cauliflower Salad, 1040. 
Rice and Cream a la Croce, 1296. 



Dinner. 

Oysters, 298. 
Bisque of Crabs, 9. 

Sardines, 283. Radishes, 

Fresh Mackerel aux fines Herbes, 331. 

Lamb Steak a 1'Americaine, 718. 

Celery a la Moelle de Bceuf, 930. 

Chicken, Saute a la Marengo, 771. 

Peas and Bacon, 981. 
Grouse sur Canape, 852. 

Chicory Salad, 1046. 

Diplomatic Pudding, 1129. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, Novembver . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs a la Bonne Femme, 432. 
Hamburg Steak, Russian sauce, 526. 

Broiled Bacon, 754. 
Stewed Potatoes, 995. 
Baked Apples, 1124. 



Cunctjeon. 



Crawfish a la Bordelaise, 360. 

Salmi of Ducks, with Olives, 827. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Tomato Salad, 1070. 
French Pancake, with Jelly 1187. 



Dinner. 



Small Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Consomme, Italian Paste, 103. 

Celery, 290. Caviare, 281. 

Codfish Tongues, black Butter, 349. 
Broiled Sirloin Steak a la Duchesse, 494. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 

Vol-au-Vent, Financiere, 810. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Roast Woodcock, 871 . 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Caramel Pudding, 1166. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



133 



Thursday, November . 



Breakfast. 

Cheese Omelet, 469. 

Fried White Perch, Tartare sauce, 301, 207. 

Beefsteak, with Watercress, 524. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Pippin Apples and Grapes. 

Cundjeon. 

Bluefish, Egg sauce, 352, 161. 

Hashed Mutton a la Zingara, 652. 

Corn, Stewed with Butter, 964. 

Timbales a la Schultze, 263. 

Lemon Cream Pie, Meringue, 1102. 



EHnner. 

Linn Haven Oysters, 298. 

Tomatoes and Sago, 59. 

Mortadella, 287. Radishes, 292. 

Crabs, St. Laurent, 372. 

Braised Beef, Flamande, 482. 

Pillau of Chicken a la Creole, 783. 

Artichokes, Flcrentine, 903. 

Roast Reed-birds, 877. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Sweet Omelet, 475. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, November . 



Breakfast. 

Scrambled Eggs, with Tomatoes, 406. 

Fillet of Soles a la Horly, 321. 

Smoked Beef, with Cream, 486. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Brioche, 1201. 

Ctmctyeon. 

Frost Fish a la Toulouse, 354. 

Stewed Veal a la Marengo, 624. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Peach Tarts, 1106. 



fiHnner. 

Clams, 300. 

Cream of Artichokes, 72. 
Radishes, 292. Thon, 285 

Broiled Haddock, maitre d'hotel, 310. 
Saddle of Venison, Currant-jelly sauce, 878. 

Sorrel au Gras, 974. 

Mutton Chops a la Robinson, 682. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. 

Roast Partridge, 843. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

English Pudding, 1137. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, November . 



Breakfast. 



EHntter. 



Hominy, with Cream, 1034. 

Ham Omelet, 462. 
Stewed Chicken Livers a 1'Italienne, 770. 

Mashed Potatoes, 998. 
Preserved Peaches, 1340. 



jeon. 

Oyster Crabs a la Poulette, 374. 
Chicken Croquettes a la Reine, 758. 

Succotash, 1022. 

Macedoine Salad, 1063. 

Stewed Prunes a la General Dufour, 1330* 



Clams, 300. 
Busecca, 7. 

Tomatoes, 288. Mortadella, 287. 

Pompano, with fine Herbs, 331. 

Veal Chops, St. Cloud, 561. 

Tomatoes a la Bock, 1026. 

Breast of Turkey, Oyster sauce, 806, 173. 

Spinach, with Eggs, 940. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Watercress Salad, 1073. 

Biscuits Glaces, 1286. 

Coffee, 1349. 



134 



THE TABLE. 



Sunday, November . 



Breakfast. 



Scrambled Eggs, with Truffles, 407. 
Broiled Salt Mackerel, 329. 
Sausages a 1'Italienne, 737. 

Fried Potatoes, 993. 
Whipped Cream au Maraschino, 1257. 



Cutuljecm. 



Lobster en Brochette, 361. 

Broiled Squabs, with Bacon, 817. 

Spaghetti au Gratin, 961. 

Rhubarb Tarts, 1112. 



EHnner. 



Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Asparagus, 70. 

Celery, 290. Olives. 

Terrapin a la Maryland, 397. 
Broiled Tenderloin a la Nivernaise, 505. 

Broiled Tomatoes, 1025. 

Sweetbreads Larded a la Bearnaise, 610. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Romaine Punch, 1304. 

Roast Canvas - back Ducks, Currant Jelly, 

874, 1326. 

Celery Salad, 1042. 

Tutti-frutti, 1293. 

Meringues a la Ch. C. Delmonico, 1249. 

Pont 1'Eveque Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, November . 

Breakfast. Sinner. 



Omelet, with Asparagus-tops, 458. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Hashed Turkey en Bordure, 805. 

Beet-roots a la Creme, 912. 

Wheat Cakes, 1184. 



tmct)i 



)eon. 

Broiled Fresh Mackerel, Anchovy Butter, 

329, 146. 

Veal Cutlets a la Marechale, 562. 
Potatoes, Chateau, 1009. 

Anchovy Salad, 1037. 
Vermicelli Pudding, 1142. 



Prince's Bay Oysters, 298. 

Puree of Crecy, 47. 

Sardines, 283. Radishes, 292. 

Stuffed Deviled Lobster, 367. 

Calf's-head en Tortue, 641. 

String Beans, 948. 
Tenderloin, Pique a la Portugaise, 517. 

Mashed Potatoes, 998. 

Roast English Snipe, with Watercress, 868. 

Tomato, Mayonnaise Salad, 1071. 

Pineapple Pie, 1087. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday, November 



Breakfast. 



Poached Eggs on Toast, 404. 

Fried Smelts, Tomato sauce, 301, 205. 

Lamb Steak a 1'Americaine, 718. 

Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. 

Small Brioches, 1202. 



Cundjeon. 

Sheep's-head a la Creole, 339. 

Beefsteak Pie a 1'Anglaise, 487. 

Macaroni au Gratin, 955. 

Plum Pie, 1094. 



?D inner. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Puree Jackson, 43. 
Olives. Mortadella, 287. 

Bass en Matelote, 332. 
Broiled Tenderloin a la Bearnaise, 492. 

Potatoes a la Windsor, 1008. 
Supreme of Partridge a la Godard, 851. 

French Peas. 

Roast Lamb, Mint sauce, 585, 169. 

Celery Salad, 1042. 

Kiimmel Jelly, 1323. 

Sweet Almond Macaroons, 1210. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



135 



Wednesday, November 



Breakfast. 

Omelet, with fine Herbs, 451. 

Fried Blackfish, 301. 

Broiled Porterhouse Steak, 524. 

Sorrel aux Croutons, 974. 

Preserved Pears, 1341. 



icon. 

Oysters a la Villeroi, 381. 

Brochette of Lamb, with Bacon, 674, 754. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Beef Salad, 1039. 
Pumpkin Pie, 1099. 



HHnner. 



Doxie Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Plain Consomme, 100. 
Thon, 282. Radishes, 293. 

Halibut, with black Butter, 309, 159. 

Chicken Croquettes, with Mushrooms, 276. 

Venison Steak, Londonderry sauce, 880. 

Stuffed Cucumbers, 937. 
Roast Goose, Stuffed with Chestnuts, 808. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Charlotte au Cafe, 1262. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday, November . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs a la Tripe, 419. 

Broiled Deviled Soft-shelled Crabs, 369. 

Mutton Kidneys, Sautes au Madere, 662. 

Potatoes a la Rice, 1007. 

Rice a la Frangaise, 1180. 



Ctmcljeon. 



Stewed Tripe a la Lyonnaise, 548. 

Broiled Grouse on Toast, with Bacon, 854. 

Spaghetti au Gratin, 961. 

Peach Marmalade, 1331. 



Dinner. 

Blue Point Oysters, 298. 

Gumbo, with Frogs, 23. 

Celery, 290. Sardines, 283. 

Solealajoinville, 322. 
Sweetbreads a la Duxelle, 608. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 
Lamb Chops, maison d'or, 683 . 

String Beans, 948. 

Roast Red-heads, 876. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Orange Pudding, 1158. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, November . 



Breakfast. 



JDtnner. 



Sardine Omelet, 468. 

Broiled Codfish a 1'Hollandaise, 329, 160. 

Tripe a la Lyonnaise, 548. 

Broiled Sweet Potatoes, 983. 

Jamaica-rum Jelly, 1320. 



jeon. 

Oyster Patties, 387. 

Porterhouse Steak, with Watercress, 524. 
Hashed Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. 

Lobster Salad, 1061. 
Iced Timbale of Rice, 1175. 



Clams, 300. 

Cream of Barley, 77. 

Radishes, 292. Mortadella, 287. 

Haddock, Cream sauce, 352, 181. 
Supreme of Partridge a la Rothschild, 790. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. 

Ballotin of Lamb, with Peas, 675. 

Roast Loin of Venison, Currant -jelly sauce, 

878. 

Lettuce Salad, 1059. 
Omelet Celestine, 477. 
. Coffee, 1349. 



136 



THE TABLE. 



Saturday, November . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs a la Post, 1366. 

Fresh Mackerel, maitre d'hdtel, 329. 

Broiled Lamb Fries a la Diable, 672. 

Fritters Soufflees, 1192. 



Ctmctyeon. 



Picked-up Codfish, 346. 
Mignons Filets a la Brown, 1389. 

Stuffed Lettuce, 953. 
Boiled Apple Dumplings, 1127. 



EHnner. 

Prince's Bay Oysters, 298. 
Consomme Suedoise, 122. 

Anchovies, 284. Celery, 290. 

Red -snapper, Cream sauce, 352, 181. 
Grenadins of Veal a 1'Africaine, 589. 

Stewed Corn, 964. 

Chicken, Saute a la Parmentier, 773. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

Roast Squabs, 816. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Home-made Cake, 1220. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, November . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet Raspail, 467 . 

Broiled Bluefish, maitre d'h6tel, 329. 

Venison Steak, Currant Jelly, 884. 

Fried Potatoes, 993. 
Creme en Mousse au Maraschino, 1257. 



Ctmctjeon. 



Pompano, with White Wine, 342. 

Broiled Chicken, with Bacon, 756. 

Salad a 1'Italienne, 1036. 

Charlotte Russe, 1261. 



EHnner. 



Massachusetts Bay Oysters, 298. 

Tomato a 1'Andalouse, 58. 

Lyons Sausage, 286. Radishes, 292. 

Lobster a la Newburg, 359. 

Sweetbreads, Soubise, 606. 

Artichoke-bottoms, Florentine, 903. 

Civet of Rabbit a la Parisienne, 888. 

String Beans, 948. 

Punch a la Lorenzo Delmonio, 1303. 
Canvas-back Ducks, Currant Jelly, 874, 1326. 

Celery, Mayonnaise Salad, 1042. 

Cabinet Pudding a la Sadi-Carnot, 1164. 

Gorgonzolla Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday ', November . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs au Miroir, 425. 

Porgies a 1'Italienne, 337. 

Lamb Chops, with Bacon, 647, 754. 

Potatoes, Duchesse, 1006. 
Rice au Lait d'Amandes, 1170. 



Citnctyeon. 



Stuffed, Deviled Crabs, 370. 

Hashed Chicken a la Polonaise, 803. 

Lobster Salad a la Plummer, 1062. 

Cherry Pie, 1098. 



dinner. 

Mill Pond Oysters, 298. 

Puree Bretonne, 45. 
Celery, 290. Olives. 

Broiled Salmon Tails, 308. 
Double Porterhouse Steak, with Marrow, 

525, 244- 

Potatoes a la Parisienne, 986. 

Chicken, Saute a la Bohemienne, 778. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Roast Partridge, 843. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Indian Pudding, 1145. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



137 



Tuesday, November . 



Breakfast. , 

Eggs a la Bennett, 447. 

Oysters a la Arthur Sullivan, 1367. 

Hashed Lamb a la Polonaise, 700. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Brioches Fluttes, 1204. 

Cuncljeon. 

Scallops, St. Jean, 371. 

Sausages, Gastronome, 740. 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Creme Renversee, 1252. 



EHmter. 



Clams, 300. 

Consomme Tapioca, 104. 
Tomatoes, 288. Celery, 290. 

Sheep's-head a la Creole, 339. 

Sweetbreads, Piques a la Financiere, 603. 

Fillet of Venison, Currant-jelly sauce, 884. 

Spinach, with Gravy, 943. 

Roast Lamb, 585. 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Meringues Panachees, 1302. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, November . 



Breakfast. 



SHnner. 



Plain Omelet, 450. 

Broiled Haddock, Anchovy Butter, 310, 146. 
Pig's Feet a la Boston, 730. 

Stewed Potatoes, 995. 
Waffles, with Sugar, 1196. 



Ctincljeon. 



Broiled Smelts, Bearnaise sauce, 353. 

Beefsteak Pie a 1'Americaine, 488. 

Macaroni au Gratin, 955. 

Mille-feuilles, 1223. 



Small Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Game, 83. 
Radishes, 288. Olives. 

Bass a la Chambord, 343. 

Escalops of Veal a 1'Italienne, 572. 

Corn, Saute with Butter, 964. 

Squabs en Crapaudine, 819. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 
Roast Grouse sur Canape, 852. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Fritters Souffle" es a la Vanille, 1192. 

Coffee, 1349. 



138 THE TABLE. 



THANKSGIVING DAY. 

Thursday, November . 

Brwkfast. 

"Eggs k la Chipolata, 442. 

Blackfish au Gratin, 356. 

Calf s-head a la Cavour. 638. 

Stewed Oyster-plant, 1018. 
Preserved Green -gages, 1344. 

unct)eon. 

Fried Frogs, sauce Tartare, 400, 207. 

Minced Beef a la Grecque, 500, 237. 

Sweet Potatoes, Soufflees, 1010. 

Pear Tarts, 1109. 

JDinner. 

Shrewsbury Oysters, 298. 

Giblet a I'Ecossaise, 20. 

Mortadella, 287. Celery, 290. 

Codfish, Egg sauce, 352, 161. 
Lamb Chops a la Robinson, 682. 

Croquettes of Macaroni, 279. 

Curry of Chicken a 1'Espagnole, 793. 

Mushrooms on Toast, 916. 

Punch en Surprise, 1309. 

Roast Turkey, Cranberry sauce, 800, 1329. 

Celery Salad, 104*. 

Mince Pie, 1082. 

Strachino Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 139 



Friday, November . 

Breakfast. SHnner. 

Crab Omelet, 455: Kirtig's Oysters, 298. 

Fish Balls, 347. Bouille-a-Baisse, i. 

Broiled Sheep's-feet, Tartare sauce, 654, 207. Anchovies, 284. Radishes, 292. 

Mashed Potatoes, 998. Red-snapper, with Cream, 352, 181. 

Rice a la Conde, 1181. Breast of Turkey a la Robinson, 807. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 
Sweetbreads a la Parisienne, 613. 

French Peas. 

Soft Clams a la Merrill, 389. Roast Plovers, 865. 

Chicken Pot-pie, 757. Lettuce Salad, 1058. 

Broiled Egg-plant, 908. Apricot Pudding a la Richelieu, 1151. 

French Pancake, 1186. Coffee, 1349. 



Cuncl) 



Saturday, November . 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Eggs a la Bourguignonne, 411. Little Neck Clams. 300. 

Picked-up Codfish, 346. Frogs a 1'Espagnole, 25. 

Minced Beef k la Provengale, 500. Tomatoes, 288. Olives. 

Saratogo Potatoes, 101 1. Canape Lorenzo, 391. 

Brioche, 1201. Suckling Pig, Apple sauce, 720. 

Celery a la Bonne Femme, 928. 

Clttt f H ffll\ Chicken, Saute with Tarragon, 774. 

^ U1 Stuffed Peppers, 975. 

Lobster en Chevreuse, 362. Woodcock sur Canape, 871. 

Corned Beef and Cabbage, 490. Celery, Mayonnaise Salad, 1042. 

Russian Salad, 1065. Omelet au Rhum, 476. 

Vanilla Eclairs, 1245. Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, December . 

Breakfast. SDinner. 

Eggs a la Turque, 439. Oysters, 298. 

Boned, Broiled Smelts a la Bearnaise, 353. Sorrel, with Asparagus-tops, 41. 

Hashed Lamb a la Zingara, 652. Celery, 290. Radishes, 292. 

Turnips, with Gravy, 967. Boiled Halibut, sauce Hollandaise, 309, 160. 

Stewed Prunes, 1330. Tenderloin, Pique a la Provenale, 518. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 
Veal Cutlets a la Marechale, 562. 
n. Spinach a 1'Anglaise, 940. 

Oranges Glacees a la Geo. Renauldt, 1297. 
Terrapin a la Baltimore, 396. Roast Quails, 834. 

Broiled Grouse a la Pomeroy, 1390. Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. St. Honore a la Rose Delmonico, 1212. 

Timbales a 1'Ecossaise, 261. Swiss Cheese. 

Creme en Mousse au Cognac, 1258. Coffee, 1349. 



140 



THE TABLE. 



Monday, December . 



Breakfast. 

Kidney Omelet, 463. 

Broiled Ham, 753. 

Tripe a la Creole, 545. 

Potatoes a la Hanna, 1012. 

Cream Renversee, 1252. 



Bass, Ravigote sauce, 352, 147. 
Breaded Mutton Chops, Tomato sauce, 643, 

205. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 
Marcella- wine Jelly a la Castellar, 1325. 



Clams, 300. 

Paysanne, 53. 

Lyons Sausage, 286. Watercress, 1072. 

Blackfish a la maitre d'hdtel, 329. 
Fried Chicken, Cream sauce, 301, 181. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 
Breast of Lamb a la Jardiniere, 702. 

Macaroni a 1'Italienne, 956. 

Roast Teal Ducks, with Hominy, 859, 1035. 

Doucette Salad, 1052. 

Rum Cake, 1229. 

Coffee, 1349* 



Tuesday, December . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs en Panade, 436. 

Codfish, Hollandaise sauce, 352, 160. 

Veal Cutlets a la Philadelphia, 565. 

Broiled Sweet Potatoes, 983. 

Buckwheat Cakes, 1183. 

Cuncl)con. 

Crabs, St. Laurent, 372. 
Beef-tongue, sauce Piquante, 533. 

Lima Beans, 952, 
Japanese Salad, 1075. 
Strawberry Tarts, 1117. 



SHnner. 



Blue Point Oysters, 298. 

Mikado, 32. 

Radishes, 292. Caviare, 281. 

Red-snapper a la Bordelaise, 341. 
Chicken, Saute a la Marengo, 771. 

Corn, Stewed with Butter, 964. 
Coquilles of Sweetbreads a la Dreux, 621. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Roast Plover and Watercress, 865. 

Barbe de Capucine Salad, 1038. 

Apple Fritters, 1191. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, December . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet, with fine Herbs, 451. 

Fried Scallops, Tomato sauce, 301, 205. 

Lamb Steak, with Bacon, 716, 754. 

Potatoes, maitre d'hfitel, 985. 

Brioche Conde, 1203. 



Ctnuljwm. 



Fried Porgies, Egg sauce, 320, 161. 

Tendron of Veal, Morlaisienne, 635. 

Risotto k la Milanaise, 1017. 

Charlotte Russe, 1261. 



STmner. 

Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Chicken a la Piemontaise, 63. 

Lyons Sausage, 286. Olives. 

Smelts a la Toulouse, 354. 
Cromesquis of Chicken a la Reine, 765. 

Stuffed Onions, 970. 
Tenderloin, Pique a la Portugaise, 517. 

Cardons, with Marrow, 931. 
Roast Grouse, with Watercress, 852. 

Celery Salad, 1042. 

Peach Pudding a la Richelieu, 1150. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



141 



Thursday, December 



Breakfast. 



Sinner. 



Eggs a la Vanierbilt, 420. 

Haddock, Cream sauce, 352, 181. 

Broiled Pig's Feet a la Boston, 730. 

Saratoga Potatoes, ion. 

German Pancake, 1 188. 



Cundjeon. 

Stuffed Deviled Lobster, 367. 

Vol-au-Vent, Financiere, 810. 

Lamb-tongue Salad, 1056. 

Apple Cake, 121%. 



300. 

Cream of Lettuce, 87. 

Sardines, 283. Celery, 290. 

Oysters en Petites Caisses, 275. 

Sweetbreads a la Duxelle, 608. 

Cauliflower, Hollandaise, 923, 160, 

Squabs en Crapaudine, 819. 

Stuffed Cucumbers, 937. 
Roast Canvas - back Ducks, Currant Jelly, 

874, 1326. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Vanilla Ice-cream, 1271. 

Biscuits a la Livornaise, 1233. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, December . 



Breakfast. 

Oyster Omelet, 452. 

Broiled Salt Mackerel, 329. 

Lamb Fries, Tomato sauce, 673. 

Fried Potatoes, 993. 
Preserved Raspberries, 1346. 

tmd)eon. . 

Pompano, with fine Herbs, 331. 

Stewed Mutton, with Oyster-plant, 703, 

Potatoes a PHollandaise, 999. 

Apple Meringue Pie, 1103. 



CHnner. 



East River Oysters, 298. 

Consomme au Spaghetti, 103. 

Radishes, 292. Celery, 290. 

Perch au Gratin, 356. 
Tenderloin, Pique a la Duchesse, 516. 

Cepes k la Bordelaise, 913. 
Lamb Chops a la Clichy, 684. 

French Peas. 

Partridge, Pique sur Canape, 843. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Plum Pudding, 1163. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, December . 



Breakfast. 

Barley and Cream. 

Eggs a la Chipolata, 442. 

Mutton Chops, Breaded, 643. 

Lima Beans, with Cream, 952. 

Malaga Grapes. 

Ctmctyeon. 

Stuffed Oysters a la Malt, 386. 

Breast of Veal a la Milanaise, 596. 

Macedoine Salad, 1063. 

Mince Pie, 1082. 



Dinner. 

Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Puree of Partridge a la Destaing, 89. 

Tomatoes, 292. Olive 

Boiled Codfish, Oyster sauce, 352. 
Salmi of Pigeons k la Moderne, 870. 

Spinach au Gras, 943. 
Fillet of Venison, Port-wine sauce, 891 . 

Succotash, 1022. 

Roast Turkey, 800. 

Lettuce Salad, 1058. 

Almond Cake, Glace, 1208. 

Coffee, 1349. 



142 



THE TABLE. 



Sunday, December . 



Breakfast. 



Spanish Omelet, 472. 

Fried Smelts, Tartare sauce, 301, 207, 

Porterhouse Steak, 524. 

Stewed Potatoes, 995. 

Creme en Mousse au Cafe, 1253. 



uncl)eon. 

Soft Clams a la Merrill, 389. 

Breast of Turkey a la Robinson, 807. 

Lobster Salad a la Plummer, 1062. 

Pie a la Martha Washington, 1105. 



Sinner. 



Oysters, 298. 
Cream of Celery, 71. 

Radishes, 292. Mortadella, 287. 

Sheep's-head, maitre d'h6tel, 329. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 
Chartreuse of Partridge, 849. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 
Sweetbreads a la Montglas, 615. 

String Beans, 948. 

Punch a la Cardinal, 1306. 

Saddle of Venison, with Currant Jelly, 878. 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Neapolitan Ice-cream, 1292. 

Petites Meringues a la Ch. C. Delmonico, 1249. 

Camcmbert Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, December . 



Breakfast. 



dinner. 



Poached Eggs on Anchovy Toast, 404, 280. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Beef-tongue, Piquante sauce, 533. 

Mashed Potatoes au Gratin, 998. 

Rice and Cream a la Croce, 1296. 



Cuncljeon. 



Oyster Patties, 387. 

Salmi of Ducklings a 1'Americaine, 826. 

Sweet Potatoes Soufflees, 1010. 

Cocoanut Pie, noi. 



Linn Haven Oysters, 298. 

Consomme, Printanier Royale, 124. 

Olives. Watercress, 1072. 

Bass aux fines Herbes, 331. 
Civet of Rabbit a la Frangaise, 887. 

Artichokes, Florentine, 903. 

Lamb Chops, maison d'or, 683. 

Asparagus-tops a la Bechamel, 904, 154. 

Roast Chicken, with Gravy, 755. 

Doucctte Salad, 1054. 

Baked Apple Dumplings, 1122. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday, December . 



Sreakfast. 

Omelet, with Cheese, 469. 

Cod's Tongues a la Poulette, 351. 

Chicken Livers Saut6s au Madere, 707. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 
Preserved Egg-plums, 1343. 



unct)eon. 



Haddock, with White Wine, 342. 
Veal Cutlets k la Milanaise, 563. 

Crab Salad, 1047. 
Sctvarin a 1'Anglaise, 1199. 



Sinner. 

Shrewsbury Oysters, 298. 

Clear Green Turtle, 18. 

Radishes, 292. Thon, 282. 

Broiled Deviled Lobster, 364. 

Calfs-head & la Vinaigrette, 640. 

Spinach a la Vieille Mode, 941. 

Supreme of Partridge a la Richelieu, 858. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 
Red-head Ducks, with Hominy, 876, 1035. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Pudding a la Porfirio Diaz, 1135. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 1 43 



Wednesday, December . 

Breakfast. JUinner. 

Scrambled Eggs, with Mushrooms, 405. Clams, 300. 

Oysters en Brochette au Petit Sale, 385. Puree Parmentier, 44. 

Mutton Hash au Gratin, 653. Watercress, 1072. Mortadella, 1087. 

Stewed Corn, 964. Frogs a 1'Espagnole, 401. 

French Pancake, 1186. Broiled Tenderloin a la Trianon, 507. 

French Peas. 
Sweetbreads a la Duxelle, 608. 

Lima Beans, 952. 

Matelote of Eels, 332. Roast Grouse sur Canape, 852. 

Curry of Chicken a 1'Indienne, 792. Doucette and Beet-root Salad, 1053. 

Cauliflower, with Butter, 925. Bread Pudding, 1132. 

Omelet SoufP.ee, 474. Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday, December . 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Omelet, with Peas, 459. Doxie Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Broiled Sardines on Toast, 403. Consomme Imperial, n i . 

Broiled Venison Steak, Currant Jelly, 884. Olives. Celery, 290. 

Potatoes, Hollandaise, 999. Red-snapper a 1'Icarienne, 336. 

Stewed Prunes a la Dufour, 1330. Croquettes of Lamb, Bearnaise sauce, 679, 

166. 

Turban of Chicken a la Cleveland, 791. 
n. Peas, with Cream, 980. 

Foies-Gras e,n Bellevue. 

Flounders, maitre d'hdtel, 329. Woodcock sur Canape, 871. 

Beefsteak Pie a I'Americaine, 488. Celery, 1041 

Stuffed Cabbage, 9 r 9. Apple Charlotte, 1 167. 

Green-gage Re, 1093. Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, December . 

Breakfast. Sinner. 

Lobster Omelet, 454. Clams, 300. 

Boiled Codfish, Hollandaise sauce, 352, 160. Chicken a la Turque, 69. 

Brjiled Calf's Liver and Bacon, 584. Radishes, 292. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Fried Egg-plant, 907. Matelote of Eels, 332. 

Brioches Fluttes, 1204. Ballotin of Squab a 1'Italienne, 818. 

Stuffed Egg-plant, 909. 
ffltt Tenderloin, Marinated, Russian sauce, 511. 

String Beans, 948. 

Oysters a la Baltimore, 388. Roast Veal, 585. 

Sausages a 1'Anglaise, 736. Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. Sago Pudding, 1140. 

Custard Pie, noo. Coffee, 1349. 



144 



THE TABLE. 



Saturday, December -. 



Breakfast. 



SHnner. 



Hominy and Cream, 1034. 

Ham and Eggs, 412, 753. 

Broiled Deviled Mutton Kidneys, 715. 

Fried Potatoes, 993. 

Baked Apples, 1124. 

Cundjeon. 

Mussels a la Mariniere, 378. 
Garnished Sourkrout, 924. 

Beef Salad, 1039. 

Jamaica-rum Jelly, 1320. 

Gingerbread, 1213. 



Cherry-stone Oysters, 398. 

Menestra, 36. 

Olives. Tomatoes, 288 

Lobster Croquettes, sauce Aurore, 365, 182. 

Mignons Filets, Bohemienne, 513. 

Macaroni a 1'Italienne, 956. 
Chicken Vol-au-Vent, with Mushrooms, 812. 

French Peas. 

Roast Quails, 834. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Baba au Madere, 1217. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, December . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet Raspail, 467. 

Halibut Steaks, maitre d'h6tel, 310. 

Minced Beef al'Ecarlate, 500, 247. 

Sweet Potatoes, Hollandaise, 999. 

Apricot Preserves, 1340. 



Citndjeon. 



Lobster a la Newburg, 359. 
Broiled Chicken, with Bacon, 756. 

Potatoes, Julienne, 1013. 

Timbales a la Schultze, 263. 

Apple Meringue Pie, 1103. 



Sinner. 



Blue Point Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Duchesse, 125. 

Celery, 290. Radishes, 292. 

Fillet of Sole au Gratin, 319. 
Coquilles of Chicken a 1'Anglaise, 271. 

Tomatoes a la Bock, 1026. 
Tenderloin, Pique a la Parisienne, 516, 495. 

Beans Panachees, 950. 
Punch a la Lalla Rookh, 1308. 
Roast Partridges, with Watercress, 843. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

St. Honore a la Rose Delmonico, 1212. 

Roquefort Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, December . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs a la Bonne Femme, 432. 

Fried Frost-fish, 301. 
Mutton Chops, sauce Colbert, 647, 190. 

Potatoes, Duchesse, 1006. 
Whipped Cream a la Vanille, 1254. 



und)ecm. 



Stuffed Deviled Crabs, 370. 

Minced Veal a la Biscaenne, 576. 

Sorrel au Gras, 974. 

Rhubarb Tarts, 1112. 



Sinner. 

Parker Bay Oysters, 298. 

Jardiniere, 28. 

Olives. Mortadella, 287. 

Red-snapper a la Venitienne, 338. 

Sweetbreads au Salpicon, 605. 

Stuffed Lettuce, 953. 

Chicken a la Maryland, 785. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Raspberry Water-ice, 1281. 

Fancy Almond Cakes, 1239. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



Tuesday, December 



Breakfast. 



Oatmeal and Cream. 

Sausage Omelet, 465. 

Hamburg Steak, Russian sauce, 526. 

Potatoes, Windsor, 1008. 

Small Brioches, 1202. 



uncl)eon. 



Oysters a la Pompadour, 384. 

Stewed Veal, Marengo, 624. 

Sweet Potatoes, Soufflees, 1010. 

Pumpkin Pie, 1099. 



dinner. 



Doxie Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Mock Turtle, 17. 
Radishes, 292. Thon, 282. 

Smelts, Bearnaise, 353. 
Saddle of Venison, Port Wine sauce, 878, 891. 

Puree of Chestnuts, 131. 
Sweetbreads, with Asparagus-tops, 607. 

Lima Beans, 952. 

Roast Ducklings, 824. 

Cebry Salad, 1042. 

Pudding a la U. S. Grant, 1159. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, December . 



Breakfast. 

Eggsau Soleil, 415. 

Fried Yellow Perch, 301. 

Pig's Feet a la St. Hubert, 727. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Apples and Rice, 1169. 



Cundjeon. 

Black Bass, with White Wine, 342. 
Sirloin Steak a la Bordelaise, 491. 
Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 
Plum Pie, 1094. 



Sinner. 



Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Spaghetti, with Tomatoes, 56. 

Celery, 290. Caviare, 281. 

Broiled Pompano, maitre d'hdtel, 329. 

Cucumber salad, 289. 

Hashed Turkey a la Creme, 804. 

Okras, Sautes a la Creole, 1031. 

Lamb Chops a la Massena, 687. 

French Peas, with Lettuce, 977. 

Roast Grouse, with Watercress, 852. 

Chicory au Chapon-salad, 1046. 

Meringues al'Helvetienne, 1251. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday, December . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs a la Paysanne, 433. 

Tripe a la LyonnaLse, 548. 

Mignons Filets a la Provencale, 509, 518. 

Hashed Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. 

Wheat Cakes, 1184. - 



Cuncl)eon. 



Lobster Croquettes a la Victoria, 365, 
Stewed Beef a la Dufour, 541. 

Timbales Lagardere, 809. 
Boiled Apricot Dumplings, 1126. 



Sinner. 



Sound Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Chicken, 82. 

Radishes, 292. Bologna Sausage, 286. 

Frogs a la Poulette, 399. 
Pillau of Chicken a la Turque, 782. 

Stewed Corn, 963. 
Broiled Partridge, with Bacon, 844, 754. 

Spaghetti a 1'Italienne, 960. 
Roast Saddle of Mutton, 664. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Cabinet Pudding a la Sadt-Carnot, 1164. 

Coffee, 1349. 



146 THE TABLE. 



Friday^ December . 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Omelet Mexicaine, 473. Oak Island Oysters, 298. 

Fried Black-bass, 301. Bis 1 ue of ^ lams , 8 - 

Sausages a 1'Anglaise, 736. Sardines, 283. ^ Celery, 290. 

Saratoga Potatoes, ion. Bouille-a-Baisse a la Marseillaise. 340. 

Peach Marmalade, 1331. Broiled Tenderloin a la Bearnaise, 492. 

Tomatoes a la Reine, 1024. 
Pigeon Cutlets k la Victoria, 815. 
UttnCljeOn. Fried Egg-plant, 907. 

Roast Quails on Toast, 834. 

Picked-up Codfish, 346. Celery Salad( 104I . 

Beefsteak Pie a 1'Americaine, 488. Vanilla Ice-cream, 1271 . 

Lobster Salad, 1061. Petites Bouchees des Dames, 1237. 

Rice and Cream a la Croce, 1296. Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday \ December . 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Eggs a la Valencienne, 421. Clams, 300. 

Broiled Sardines on Toast, 403. Consomme Napolitame, 127. 

Lamb Kidneys, Sautes a 1'Italienne, 663. Radishes, 292. Caviare, 281. 

Baked Potatoes. Haddock, Cream sauce, 352, 181. 

Marcella-wine Jelly a la Castellar, 1325. Mignons Filets, with Marrow, 510. 

Fried Egg-plant, 907. 

tmchcon. ^f * la Rou * nnaise ' *>* 

Celery, with Cream, 929. 

Scallops a la Brestoise, 392. Roast Lamb, Mint sauce, 585, 169. 

Squabs a 1'Americaine, 820. Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. Biscuits Tortoni, 1287. 

Mince Pie, 1082. Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, December . 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Eggs a la Hyde, 448. Sma11 Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Fried Frogs' Legs, Tomato' sauce, 400, 205. Chicken, with Leeks, 68. 

Hashed Chicken, with Cream, 804. Celery, 290. Olives. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. Stuffed Deviled Lobster, 367. 

Rice a la Conde, 1 181 . S* 1 "" of Woodcock a la Gastronome, 842 . 

French Peas. 

Sweetbreads a la Soubise, 606. 
unCllCOtl Tomatoes a la Bock, 1026. 

Punch a la Lorenzo Delmonico, 1303. 

Stewed Terrapin i la Maryland, 397. Roast Grouse a la Sam Ward, 853. 

Broiled Red - head Ducks, Currant Jelly. Celery, Mayonnaise Salad, 1042. 

876, 1326. Macedoine a la Cavour, 1298. 

Risotto k la Milanaise, 1017. Biscuits Ambroisienne, 1234. 

Japanese Salad, 1075. Camembert Cheese. 

Raspberry Tarts, 1118. Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



147 



Broiled 



Monday^ December . 



Breakfast. 



Hominy, with Cream, 1034. 

Eggs a T Aurore, 444. 
Venison Steaks, maitre d'hdtel, 
8 79> J45> 

Fried Potatoes, 993. 
Creme Renversee, 1252. 



JDinner. 



CttttCl) 



Qtt. 

Canape Lorenzo, 391. 

Mignons of Lamb a la Montebello, 1360, 249. 

Brussels Sprouts, with Butter, 922. 

Charlotte Russe, 1261. 



Massachusetts Bay Oysters. 298. 

Puree Faubonne, 46. 

Celery, 290. Sardines, 283. 

Red-snapper a la Bordelaise, 341. 
Q uafls Braised, Celery sauce, 836. 
Lamb Chops a la Maintenon, 685. 
Cauliflower, Hollandaise, 925, 160. 
Roast Plover sur Canape^ 865. 

Doucette Salad, 1054. 
_ ^. ... 

Cocoanut Pudding, 1147. 

_. _. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday, December 



Ureakfaat. 

Smoked Beef Omelet, 461. 

Stewed Oysters a la Baltimore, 388. 

Broiled Lamb Chops, with Bacon, 6 47 , 754. 

Potatoes en Paille, 1014. 
Preserved Strawberries, 1345. 



Dinner. 



Chincoteague Oysters, 298. 

Green Turtle, 16. 

Anchovies, 284. Watercress, 1072. 

Boned Deviled Smelts, sauce Tartare, 353. 207. 

Boiled Turkey a 1'Anglaise, 795. 

French Peas. 



Scallops Brestoise, 392. 

Soles a la Horly, 3 1 
. r T7 , ./XT -ii 

Blanquette of Veal, with Nouilles, 552. 

Oyster-plant a la Poulette, 1019. 
T : 
Lobster Salad a la Plummer, 1062. 

Rice and Cream a la Croce, 1296, 



97O. 
Roast Saddle of Venison, 878. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

_ 

Omelet Soufflee, 474. 

C ffee I349> 



148 



THE TABLE. 



CHRISTMAS. 
Wednesday, December 

Breakfast. 

Eggs a 1'Aurore, 444. 
Broiled Salt Mackerel, 329. 

Porterhouse Steak, 524. Potatoes. Chateau, 1009. 

Creme en Mousse au Maraschino, 1257. 



Lobster en Chevreuse, 362. 
Chicken, Saute with Tarragon, 774. 

Broiled Sweet Potatoes, 0.83. 

Pie a la Martha Washington, 1105. 

Biscuits Glaces, 1286. 



55 inner. 

Small Rockaway Oysters, 298. 
Consomme Printanier Royale, 124. 
Celery, 290. Radishes. 292. 

Bouchees a la Reine, 270. 

Terrapin a la Baltimore, 396. 

Filets Mignons a la Bayard, 509, 231. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, a la Reine, 1024. 

Supreme of Partridge & la Perigueux, 850. 

French Peas, with fresh Butter, 978. 

Stuffed Deviled Lobster. 367. 

Champagne Punch, 1307. 

Canvas-back Ducks, with Currant Jelly, 874, 1326. 
Lettuce and Egg Salad, 1058. 

Nougat Pyramid, 1267. 

Plombiere a la Hamilton, 1370. 

Petites Bouchees des Dames a la Mme. Astor, 1238. 

Sweet Macaroons, 1210. 
Lady-fingers, 1231. Biscuits Richelieu, 1232. 

Coffee, 1349. 
Punch k la Czarina, 1312 to be served at 10 p. M. 



MENUS. 



149 



Thursday, December . 



Breakfast. 



Dinner. 



Spanish Omelet, 472. 

Fried Frost- fish, 301. 

Hamburg Steak, Madeira sauce, 526, 185. 

Potatoes, Lyonnaise, 991. 
Prunes a la General Dufour, 1330. 



uncl)con. 



Canape Lorenzo, 391. 
Broiled CalPs Liver and Bacon, 584. 

Anchovy Salad, 1037. 
Rice Pudding a 1'Orange, 1130. 



Mill Pond Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Barley, 77. 
Tomatoes, 288. Caviare, 28 r. 

Stuffed Deviled Crabs, 370. 
Croustade of Kidneys, with Mushrooms, 680. 

Spinach, with Eggs, 940. 

Broiled Tenderloin and Watercress, 503. 

Stul ed Peppers, 975. 

Rtast Grouse, 852. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Kirsch Omelet, 476. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, December , 



Breakfast. 



Scrambled Eggs, with Asparagus-tops, 406. 

Cod's Tongues, black Butter, 349. 

Hashed Turkey en Bordure, 805. 

Broiled Sweet Potatoes, 983. 

Baked Apples, 1124. 

Cunctyecm. 

Porgies, Tomato sauce, 301, 205. 

Chicken Pot-pie, 757. 

Russian Salad, 1065. 

Madeleine, 1126. 



HHnner. 

Oysters, 298. 
Consomme Chatelaine, 128. 



Thon, 282. 



Celery, 290. 



Red-snapper, Egg sauce, 352, 161. 

Coquilles of Sweetbreads a la Dreux, 621. 

Salmi of Reed-birds, maison d'or, 867. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Roast Chicken, 755. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Baba au Rhum, 1217, 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, December . 



Breakfast. 



Tomato^Omelet a la Proven^ale, 457. 

Fish Balls, 347. 
Lamb en Brochette a la Dumas, 674. 

Fried Potatoes, 993. 
Brioche a la Conde. 1203. 

Cmtctjeon. 

Stuffed Oysters a la Mali, 386. 

Calf's-head a la Cavour, 638. 

Stuffed Cabbage, 919. 

Potato Salad, 1073. 
Charlotte au Cafe, 1362. 



EHnner. 

Clams, 300. 

Chicken a la Portugaise, 66. 

Watercress, 1072. Sardines, 283. 

Sheep's-head, maitre d'h6tel, 329. 

Salmi of Ducks, with Turnips, 826. 

Spaghetti Napolitaine, 959. 

Tenderloin, Pique a la Florentine, 506. 

Roast Red-heads, with Hominy, 876, 1035, 

Celery Salad, 1042. 

Plombiere a la Kingman. 1294. 

Coffee, 1349. 



THE TABLE. 



Sunday, December 



Breakfast. 



Dinner. 



Eggs i la Bourguignonne, 411. 

Broiled Frogs, maitre d'hbtel, 398. 

Broiled Beefsteak a la Bearnaise, 492. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Buckwheat Cakes, 1183. 



Ctmcfyecm. 



Smelts, Toulouse, 354. 

Blanquette of Veal, with Peas, 552 

Chicken Salad, 1044. 

Mince Pie, 1082. 



Blue Point Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Asparagus, 70. 

Radishes, 292. Celery, 290. 

Bass a la Chambord, 343. 
Chicken Fricasse a la Reine, 780. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 
Broiled Tenderloin aux Gourmets, 508, 

Stuffed Egg-plant, 909. 
Punch en Surprise, 1309. 
Roast Grouse a la Sam Ward, 853. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Diplomatic Pudding, 1129. 

Strachino Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, December . 



Breakfast. 

Omelet, with fine Herbs, 451. 

Minced Beef a la Catalan, 502. 

Sausages a PItalienne, 737. 

Potatoes, Julienne, 1013. 

Apple Fritters, 1191. 

Ctmcijecm. 

Clams a la Merrill, 389. 
Stewed Lamb aux Flageolets, 707. 

Oyster-plant, Poulette, 1019. 
Rice and Apples a la Czar, 1173. 



SHnner. 



East River Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Garibaldi, 112. 

Olives. Mortadella, 287. 

Codfish, Oyster sauce, 352. 

Leg of Mutton, Bretonne, 650. 

Onions, with Cream, 968. 

Squabs en Compote, 822. 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Blanc-Manger a la J. Delmonico, 1270. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday, December . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs a la Meyerbeer, 437. 

Fried Soft-shelled Crabs, 368. 

Tripe a la Lyonnaise, 548. 

Saratoga Potatoes, ion. 

German Pancake, with Apples, 1189. 



Cunclji 



>eon. 

Lobster a la Newburg, 359. 
Breaded Veal Cutlets, Tomato sauce, 563. 

French Peas. 
Caviare on Toast, 281. 
Cherry Tarts, nn. 



dinner. 



Small Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Bisque of Lobster, 10. 
Celery, 290. Radishes, 292. 

Matelote of Bass, 332. 

Salmi of Grouse k la Walter Scott, 856. 

Tenderloin of Beef, Pique a la Sevigne, 520. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 
Roast Partridge sur Canape, 843. 

Lettuce Salad, 1059. 

Neapolitan Ice-cream, 1292. 

Small Meringues a laCh. C. Delmonico, 1249. 

Coffee, 1349. 



SOUPS 



1. Bonille-a-Baisse. Chop two medium-sized, peeled, sound onions 
very fine, with one medium-sized, fine, fresh, green pepper, the same 
way, and put them in a pan on the hot range, with a gill of sweet oil. 
When well browned, moisten with three pints of hot white broth (No. 99). 
Cut three skinned, good-sized, sound, well-washed potatoes into quarters, 
also three fine, good-sized, sound, red, peeled tomatoes into rather small 
pieces ; put all in the soup. Season with a pinch of salt (the equivalent 
of a tablespoonful) and half a pinch of pepper, and then boil well for fully 
one hour and a half, placing into it a strong bouquet (No. 254) at the be- 
ginning, also half a teaspoonful of powdered saffron, diluted in a little 
water; when nearly done, add one pound of boned codfish, cut into small 
pieces ; boil again for three minutes, pour into a hot soup tureen, and 
serve with six slices of toasted bread. 

2. Brimoise. Pare and cut into small squares three medium-sized 
carrots, one turnip, half an onion, and two leeks ; put these with two 
ounces of butter in a covered saucepan for a few moments ; moisten with 
three pints of broth (No. 99), season with half a tablespoonful of salt, and 
a teaspoonful of pepper. Cook for three-quarters of an hour, and then 
add a handful of chiffonade (No. 132) ; when ready, ser.ve with six slices 
of toasted bread. 

3. Br II noise with Bice. The same as for No. 2, adding half a cupful 
of uncooked rice about seventeen minutes before serving ; taste to see if 
sufficiently seasoned, and serve. 

4. Brimoise With Sorrel. The same, adding two good handfuls of 
chopped sorrel about two minutes before serving. 

5. Beef a 1' Anglaise. Cut up into small squares a quarter of a pound 
of raw, lean beef ; brown them a little in a saucepan on the hot range, 
then moisten with three pints of broth (No. 99), add half a pint of prin- 
tanier (No. 51), a handful of barley, and half a pinch each of salt and pep- 
per. Boil thoroughly for half an hour, and a few moments before 
serving put in one medium-sized sliced tomato, taste to see if sufficiently 
seasoned, then pour the soup into a hot tureen, and send to the table. 

6. Beef a PEcossaise, thickened. Brown in a little fat, in a sauce- 
pan, a quarter of a pound of small squares of lean beef and a sliced onion ; 
moisten with three pints of broth (No. 99), adding half a cup of oatmeal, 
a small glass of Madeira wine, half a tablespoonful of salt and a tea- 
spoonful of pepper. Let cook for thirty minutes, then serve. 



THE TABLE. 



7. Busecca. Brown in a saucepan one pint of raw printanier (No. 51), 
adding half a pint of chopped celery ; let steam gently for about ten 
minutes, then moisten with three pints of white broth (No. 99) and a 
quarter of a pound of very finely shred tripe ; season with half a table- 
spoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper. Cook thoroughly for 
twenty-five minutes, and serve with a little grated cheese, separate. 

8. Bisque of Clams. Open twelve large clams, scald them whole in 
their own juice, and drain. Then pound them in a mortar, and put 
them back into a saucepan with the same water. Add one quart of 
white broth (No. 99), one bouquet (No. 254), half a pint of raw rice, a 
little pepper, but no salt ; boil for forty-five minutes, then strain through 
a fine sieve, adding half a cupful of good cream. Let it heat, but not 
boil again, and serve with very small squares of fried bread. 

9. Bisque of Crabs. Boil four hard-shelled crabs in salted water for 
about fifteen minutes; wash and drain them well, and proceed as for No. 8. 

10. Bisque of Lobster. The same as for No. 8. Two pounds of 
lobster boiled in the shell will be sufficient; serve with small squares of 
boiled lobster claw, cut in dice. 

11. Croute-au-Pot. Take two carrots cut in round slices, one 
turnip, cut .the same, adding a few pieces of celery and half a quarter of 
chopped-up cabbage ; stew them for ten minutes in a covered saucepan, 
with two ounces of butter ; then moisten with three pints of white broth 
(No. 99), adding half a tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper. 
Boil well for thirty minutes, and serve with six pieces of dry toasted 
rolls. 

12. Fish Chowder, Boston style. Take a nice live codfish of about 
six pounds, cut the head off and remove all the bones, then cut the fish 
into square pieces, place them in a bowl, and add half a pinch of salt and a 
pint of cold water so as to have the flesh firm. Take the head and 
bones, place them in a saucepan with two quarts of white broth (No. 99) 
on the stove, and as soon as it comes to a boil, skim it well. Season 
with one pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper. Let boil for twenty 
minutes. Peel and slice very fine one small, sound onion, place it in a 
saucepan with one ounce of butter, half an ounce of salt pork, cut in small 
dice-shaped pieces, let cook for five minutes, then add two tablespoonfuls 
of flour. Stir well together for three minutes on a brisk fire, being care- 
ful not to let it get brown. Strain the broth into a bowl, and when all 
strained in, add it to the flour," stirring well until all the broth is added. 
Let boil for ten minutes. Cut two good-sized, sound potatoes in small 
dice-shaped pieces, add them to the soup. Boil five minutes. Drain the 
codfish, wash it once more, and add it to the soup. Boil five minutes 
more ; add half a pint of cold milk, being very careful not to allow to boil 
again; sprinkle a teaspoonful of chopped parsley over, and serve very hot. 

13. Clam Chowder. Wash six fine, medium-sized potatoes, peel and 
cut them into small dice-shaped pieces, wash again in fresh water, take them 
Up with a skimmer ; place them in a stewpan large enough to hold three 
quarts. Immediately add two quarts of cold water (not placing the pan on 



SOUPS. 153 



the fire until so mentioned). Peel one medium-sized, sound onion, chop it 
up very fine, and place it on a plate. Take a quarter of a bunch of well- 
washed parsley greens (suppressing the stalks), place it with the onions ; 
wash well two branches of soup celery, chop it up very fine, place it with 
the parsley and onions, and add all these in the stewpan. Place the pan on 
a brisk fire. Season with a light pinch of salt, adding at the same time a 
light tablespoonful of good butter. Let all cook until the pototoes are 
nearly done; eighteen minutes will be sufficient. Cut out from a piece 
of fresh pork, crosswise, one slice a third of an inch thicic, then cut it in 
pieces a third of an inch square, fry, and reduce it in a pan on the hot stove 
for four minutes. Add it to the broth, add also three-quarters of a 
teaspoonful of branch dry thyme. Lightly scald four fine, medium-sized 
tomatoes, peel and cut them into small pieces and add them to the prep- 
aration. Open and place in a bowl twenty-four medium-sized, fine, 
fresh clams ; pour into another bowl half of their juice. Place the clams 
on a wooden board, cut each one into four equal pieces, and immediately 
plunge them into the pan with the rest; gently mix, so as to prevent 
burning at the bottom while boiling, for two minutes. Range the pan on 
the corner of the stove to keep warm. Season with a saltspoonful of 
black pepper, one tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce, gently stir the 
whole with a wooden spoon ; break in two pilot crackers in small pieces, 
stir a little again. Leave two minutes longer in the same position, but 
under no circumstances allow to boil. Pour it into a hot soup-tureen, and 
serve. 

14. Chiffonade. Wash we!2, drain, and chop up very fine one quart 
of sorrel with the green leaves of a lettuce-head. Brown in a saucepan, 
with two ounces of butter and a sliced onion, seasoning with half a table- 
spoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper. Moisten with three pints of 
white broth (No. 99), add a handful of peas, the same of string beans and 
asparagus tops; boil for three-quarters of an hour with an ounce of but- 
ter; serve with six slices of toasted bread. 

15. How to Prepare Green Turtle. Select a medium-sized turtle, 
cut off the head, and let it bleed for twelve hours. Remove the bones by 
opening the sides ; cut the carcass in pieces, and blanch them for three 
minutes in boiling water. Lift off the top shell and place it in a sauce- 
pan, covering it with white broth (No. 99), a handful of whole pepper, 
one dozen cloves, half a bunch of thyme, and six bay leaves (all the 
above spices and herbs carefully tied in a white cloth). Add a handful of 
salt, and cook for about one hour. Drain, remove the bones, cut the 
rest in dice-sized squares. Let the broth be reduced to three-fourths its 
quantity, then put in the white, lean meat, letting it cook for ten minutes, 
and then add the green part (the shell) of the turtle. Fill some medium- 
sized pots with this, and when cooled off pour hot lard over the tops. A 
good glassful of Madeira wine can be added to the broth, according to 
taste. 

16. Green Turtle Soup. Place a pint of green turtle, cut into pieces 
(No. 15) in a saucepan with two pints of broth (No. 99); add a bouquet 



154 



THE TABLE. 



(No. 254), a glassful of Madeira wine, a little bit of red pepper, half a 
tablespoonful of salt, a little grated nutmeg, a teaspoonful of English 
sauce, and a cupful of Espagnole sauce (No. 151). Boil for twenty min- 
utes, and serve with six slices of peeled lemon, after suppressing the bou- 
quet. 

17. Mock Turtle. To be prepared as for green turtle (No. 16), substi- 
tuting a pint of cooked calf's-head for the turtle. 

18. Clear Green Turtle. Proceed the same as for the green turtle (No. 
16), omitting the Espagnole sauce, but adding two tablespoonfuls of dis- 
solved corn-starch, also a quarter of a glassful more of Madeira wine 
before serving. 

19. Giblets With Rice. Take three chicken giblets and brown them in 
a saucepan, with half an ounce of fat and one sliced onion. Moisten with 
one quart of white broth (No. 99), adding one thinly sliced carrot, half a 
sliced turnip, a tablespoonful of well-washed rice, half a tablespoonful of 
salt, and a very little pepper. Boil for thirty minutes, and then put in 
one sliced tomato; cook for five minutes more, and serve, adding one tea- 
spoonful of Parisian sauce. 

20. Giblets a 1'Ecossaise. The same as for No. 19, substituting half 
a cupful of oatmeal for rice ten minutes before serving. 

21. Giblets with Barley. The same as No. 19, substituting barley for 
rice forty minutes before serving. 

22. driblets a 1'Ansdaise. Brown in a saucepan three minced giblets 
with a sliced onion; moisten with one quart of white broth (No. 99), add- 
ing a cupful of Espagnole sauce (No. 151)), a bouquet (No. 254), half a 
glassful of Madeira wine, a teaspoonful of Parisian sauce, and half a 
tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper. Cook thoroughly for 
about thirty minutes, and when done, serve with one chopped hard-boiled 
egg. 

23. Gumbo With Frogs. Brown in half an ounce of butter, in a sauce- 
pan, one chopped onion with about one ounce of raw ham cut into dice 
shape, half a green pepper cut in small dice, and half a tablespoonful of salt 
and a teaspoonful of pepper. Moisten with one quart of white broth (No. 99), 
or consomme (No. 100), add one tablespoonful of raw rice, six sliced 
gumbos, and one sliced tomato. Let all cook thoroughly for about twenty 
minutes; and five minutes before serving add a quarter of a pound of raw 
frogs cut up into small pieces. 

24. Gumbo of Crabs. The same as for No. 23; replacing the frogs 
by three well-washed, minced, soft-shelled crabs five minutes before 
serving. 

25. Frog's li PEspagnole, The same as No. 23, adding one green pep- 
per and two tomatoes (as green peppers and tomatoes must predominate 
when frogs are used instead of crabs), and omitting the gumbo. 

26. Oysters. Put thirty medium-sized oysters in their own water, 
with half a pint of water added, in a saucepan, with a tablespoonful of salt 
and half a teaspoonful of pepper, and one ounce of good butter. Let it 
boil once only; then serve, adding half a pint of cold milk. 



SOUPS. 



*55 



27. Julienne. Cut into fine long shreds two carrots, half a turnip, 
two leaves of celery, one leek, an eighth of a cabbage, and half an onion; 
brown them in a saucepan with one ounce of butter; moisten with one 
quart of white broth (No. 99), or consomme (No. 100), and season with 
half a tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper. Cook for thirty 
minutes; add two tablespoonfuls of cooked green peas, and one table- 
spoonful of cooked string beans. Boil up again, and serve. 

28. Jardiniere. The same as for No. 27, only the vegetables are cut 
larger, and omit the cabbage. When ready to serve, add a handful of 
chiffonade (No. 132) five minutes before serving. 

29. Shin of Beef Liee. Place ten pounds of leg of beef (shin) in a 
saucepan, with one gallon of cold water, on the fire. When it comes to a 
boil, thoroughly skim off all the scum. . Add one good-sized carrot, one 
sound onion, six cloves, eighteen whole peppers, a well-garnished bou- 
quet (No. 254), and two pinches of salt. Let all boil on a moderate fire 
for four hours. Place in a saucepan two ounces of butter, four table- 
spoonfuls of flour, mix well together, and place it also on a moderate fire, 
stirring it once in a while until it has obtained a light brown color, which 
will take six minutes. When the broth has boiled for four hours, strain 
either through a napkin or a sieve into a vessel and let cool for five 
minutes; then gradually add it to the flour, stirring until all is added; 
place it on the fire, and when it boils skim it once more, and let cook for 
ten minutes. Cut a piece of four ounces of the meat of the cooked shin 
of beef into small dice-shape pieces half an inch square, add them to the 
soup, let all boil ten minutes; squeeze in the juice of one medium-sized 
sound lemon, add a glassful of Madeira wine, and serve in hot tureen. 

30. Mutton With Barley. Cut in small squares a quarter of a pound 
of lean mutton, and brown them in saucepan, with a little fat, "on the hot 
range, with half a chopped sound onion. Moisten with three pints of 
white broth (No. 99), and season with half a pinch of salt, and half a 
pinch of pepper; add half a pint of printanier (No. 51), a little cut-up cel- 
ery, and a tablespoonful of well- washed barley. Boil well together for 
forty minutes; pour into a hot soup-tureen and serve. 

81. Mutton A 1'Ecossaise. The same as for No. 30, substituting half 
a cupful of oatmeal for the barley ten minutes before serving. 

32. Mikado. Cut half of a small breast of chicken, a quarter of a 
pound of very lean veal, and a quarter of a pound of lean mutton, into 
small equal-sized dice-shaped pieces, and put them in a saucepan on the 
hot stove, with two ounces of good butter. Cook for five minutes, stir- 
ring with the spatula; then moisten with two quarts of broth (No. 99), 
adding a finely chopped medium-sized onion, the same of green pepper, 
two tablespoonfuls of diluted curry, and a bouquet (No. 254). Season 
w'ith a tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper, and, after cook- 
ing for thirty minutes, add three tablespoonfuls of raw rice and cook again 
for thirty minutes, Remove the bouquet, skim thoroughly, and pour 
the soup into a hot soup-tureen to serve. 

33. Westmoreland Soup. Put into a saucepan one quart of broth 



156 THE TABLE. 



(No. 99), one quart of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), three tablespoonfuls of 
Parisian sauce, a little cayenne pepper (about the equivalent of a green 
pea), and a bouquet (No. 254); place the saucepan on the hot stove, and 
add two cooked and boned calf's feet, cut into small square pieces, and 
pour in a glassful of good Madeira wine. Cook for thirty minutes, remove 
the bouquet, and skim the fat from the surface; pour the soup into a 
hot tureen; add eighteen cooked chicken quenelles (No. 226), then send 
to the table. 

84. Mlllligatawney. Cut a quarter of a medium-sized raw chicken 
in pieces, with half a green pepper, half an ounce of lean raw ham, and 
half a finely sliced onion. Brown the whole for five minutes in a sauce- 
pan ; moisten with one quart of white broth (No. 99), adding a quarter of 
a pint of very finely cut printanier (No. 51), a teaspoonful of curry, and 
half a green apple cut into small pieces, one slice of egg-plant cut into 
small pieces, and a tablespoonful of uncooked rice. Season with half a 
tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper ; boil for twenty-five 
minutes and serve. 

35. Mulligatawney a la Delmonico. The same as for No. 34, but 
instead of the printanier use two tablespoonfuls of rice, adding twelve 
medium-sized oysters two minutes before serving. 

30. Menestra. Cut up all together into fine pieces two carrots, half a 
turnip, two leeks, a quarter of a cabbage, half an onion, and one stalk of 
celery, and steam them in two ounces of butter for about ten minutes in a 
covered saucepan ; moisten with three pints of white broth (No. 99), add- 
ing one tablespoonful of washed rice, a bouquet (No. 254), and half a table- 
spoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper. Boil well for thirty 
minutes, and serve with two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese separately for 
each person. 

37. Napolitaine. Cut into small pieces a quarter of a raw chicken ; 
brown them well in one ounce of butter, with an ounce of lean raw ham, 
half a green pepper, half a sliced onion, also one carrot cut in the same 
way. Steam for ten minutes in a saucepan, then moisten with three pints 
of white broth (No. 99) ; season with half a tablespoonful of salt and a 
teaspoonful of pepper, and add one tablespoonful of raw rice. Let it 
simmer until half cooked (about fifteen minutes), then throw in one ounce 
of pieces of macaroni and half a tomato. Boil again for ten minutes, and 
serve with two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese separately. 

38. Ox-Tail With Barley. Cut a small ox-tail into little pieces, wash 
well, drain them, then place in a saucepan with a quarter of an ounce of 
butter, fry for ten minutes on the hot stove. Moisten with three pints of 
consomme (No. 100) ; season with half a pinch of salt and half a pinch of 
pepper. Cook for one hour. Then add half a pint of printanier (No. 51), 
one tablespoonful of well-washed barley, and a teaspoonful of Parisian 
sauce. Cook for forty minutes, then skim the fat off, and a few moments 
before serving add one medium-sized, red, sliced tomato to the soup. 

39. Ox-Tail a 1'EcoSSaise. The same as for No. 38, substituting half 
a cupful of oatmeal for the barley ten minutes before serving. 



SOUPS. 157 



40. Ox-Tail & 1'Anglaise. Cut a small ox-tail into pieces, and fry 
them the same as in No. 38. Moisten with a quart of consomm6 (No. 100), 
and one pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151). Cook for one hour, then 
season with a pinch of pepper, add one tablespoonful of well-washed 
barley, one teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, half a glass of Madeira 
wine, and a bouquet (No. 254). Boil thoroughly for forty-five minutes, 
skim off the fat, then serve with six slices of lemon, and one chopped hard- 
boiled egg, and suppressing the bouquet. 

41. Sorrel with Asparagus-tops. Chop up fine one quart of well 
picked and washed sorrel; put it in a saucepan with two ounces of butter. 
Let it steam for ten minutes ; then moisten with three pints of white 
broth (No. 99), adding half a cupful of asparagus-tops, and half a table- 
spoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper. Cook together for twenty- 
five minutes, and when about serving thicken it with the yolk of one egg 
in half a cupful of cream. Serve with six sippets of toast. 

42. Sorrel With Rice. The same as for No. 41, using two table- 
spoonfuls of rice twenty minutes before serving, instead of the asparagus, 
and omitting the sippets of toast. 

43. Puree Jackson. Cut one pint of potatoes into pieces and cover 
them with one quart of white broth (No. 99) in a saucepan. Press the 
broth through a napkin, adding about two ounces of butter and a bouquet 
(No. 254.) Season with half a tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of 
pepper, cook well for thirty minutes, then strain the soup, adding half a 
cupful of cream, and serve with six sippets of toast. Do not let it boil 
again after the cream has been added. 

44. Puree Parmentier. The same as for No. 43, adding one bunch 
of cut-up leeks fifteen minutes before serving. 

45. Puree Bretonne. The same as for No. 43, substituting one pint 
of dried white beans, previously soaked for four hours in cold water, for 
the potatoes. 

46. Puree Fanbonne. The same as for No. 43, using one pint of 
lentils instead of potatoes. (Lentils must also be soaked for four hours 
before using.) Throw in two tablespoonfuls of cooked green peas and a 
pinch of chopped parsley one minute before serving. 

47. Pure Crecy. Steam four medium-sized finely chopped carrots 
for fifteen minutes in a saucepan, with two ounces of butter ; then moisten 
with one quart of white broth (No. 99), adding half a cupful of raw rice, 
one bouquet (No. 254), and half a tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful 
of pepper. Cook thoroughly for thirty minutes, then strain through a 
fine colander. Finish with half a cupful of cream, and serve with two 
tablespoonfuls of croutons (No. 133). 

48. Puree Con< ! e Place in a saucepan on the fire one pint of red 
beans, previously soaked for four hours in cold water. Moisten with one 
quart of white broth (No. 99), and add two ounces of blanched salt pork, one 
onion, one carrot, a bouquet (No. 254), and a teaspoonful of pepper. Cook 
thoroughly for one hour; then strain, add half a glassful of claret, and then 
serve with two tablespoonfuls of square croutons of fried bread (No. 133). 



158 THE TABLE. 



49. Pure*e Of Green Peas. The same as for No. 48, using a pint of 
green peas instead of red beans, and adding half a cupful of cream in the 
place of claret, and one ounce of butter, one minute before serving. 

50. Puree Mongole. Boil in a saucepan half a cupful of dried peas in 
two gills of white broth (No, 99), for one hour; if fresh peas, half an hour 
will be sufficient. Cut up in julienne shape, one medium-sized sound 
carrot, one small turnip, and one leek ; place them in a saucepan with 
half an ounce of butter on the hot stove, cover the pan, and let simmer 
for five minutes. Peel two good-sized ripe tomatoes, cut them into 
quarters, put them in a saucepan with a quarter of an ounce of butter ; 
season with one pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, add one gill of 
white broth (No. 99). Let cook for twenty minutes on a brisk fire. Then 
strain the tomatoes through a fine sieve into a bowl, add them now to 
julienne, let all cook five minutes longer; strain the peas fhrough the 
sieve into the julienne, let the whole come to a boil, and serve in a hot 
soup-tureen. 

51. Printanier Grenat. Cut into small pieces two carrots, half a 
turnip, half an onion, two leaves of celery, and two leeks; steam them 
well for ten minutes in a saucepan with one ounce of butter; then moisten 
with three pints of consomme (No. 100), adding two tablespoonfuls of rice, 
half a pinch each of salt and pepper. Cook thoroughly for thirty minutes 
and five minutes before serving put in one cut-up raw tomato. 

52. Printanier Chasseur. Proceed as for No. 51, only replacing the 
tomato with half the breast of a cooked grouse, partridge, or any other 
game, cut into small pieces, and twelve quenelles (No. 221). 

53. Paysanne. Cut in square-shaped pieces two carrots, half a turnip, 
an eighth of a cabbage, half an onion, one potato, and two leaves of celery. 
Steam them for ten minutes with two ounces of butter in a saucepan; 
then moisten with three pints of white broth (No. 99); season with half a 
tablespoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of pepper. Cook for thirty 
minutes, and when serving add six thin slices of bread. 

54. Pot-au-Feu. Family Soup. Thoroughly wash twice in cold 
water, either six pounds of brisket or eight pounds of shin of beef. Place 
it in the stock-pot, and entirely cover with cold water ; place it on the fire, 
and be very careful, as soon as it comes to a boil, to thoroughly skim 
off all the scum. Add two medium-sized, sound, well-cleaned carrots, one 
turnip, one good-sized, well-peeled onion with six cloves stuck in it, and 
two leeks tied together. Season with two pinches of salt, and eighteen 
whole peppers; let boil for four hours. Strain either through a napkin or 
a sieve into a bowl; cut the carrots into round pieces, quarter of an inch 
thick, turnip the same, as also the leeks; add all these to the broth, and 
serve with six quarters of toasted rolls. 

55. A la Russe. Cut into pieces one ounce each of lean, raw ham, 
mutton, beef, and veal; brown them well in. one ounce of butter with the 
half of a finely shred onion for five minutes. Moisten with one quart of 
white broth (No. 99), then throw in half a pint of prepared printanier as 
for No. 109, and a tablespoonful of raw rice. Boil thoroughly for thirty 



SOUPS. 159 



minutes, season with two teaspoonfuls of pepper, and five minutes before 
serving add a handful of 1 chiffonade (No. 132). 

56. Spaghetti with Tomatoes. Pour into a saucepan one pint of white,, 
broth (No. 99), one pint of tomato sauce (No. 205), and season with half a 
pinch each of salt and pepper. Let it boil well for ten minutes; then throw 
in half a pint of cooked spaghetti cut about three-quarters of an inch in 
length; cook again for five minutes, tossing them well meanwhile, and 
serve very hot. 

57. Tomatoes with Bice. 1 The same as for No. 56, using three table- 
spoonfuls of raw rice twenty minutes before serving instead of the cooked 
spaghetti. 

58. Tomatoes a I'Andalnnse. Boil together in a saucepan one pint 
of tomato sauce (No. 205), and three pints of consomme (No. 100). Add 
half a tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper; then put in two 
tablespoonfuls of tapioca, stirring it well all the time. Cook for fifteen 
minutes, and add twelve chicken quenelles (No. 226); then serve. 

59. Tomato With Sago. Boil for ten minutes in a saucepan one pint 
of tomato sauce (No. 205), and three pints of consomme (No. 100), season- 
ing with half a pinch each of salt and pepper ; add two tablespoonfuls of 
sago, cook again for fifteen minutes, gently stirring, and serve. 

00. Terrapin how to prepare it. Take live terrapin, and blanch 
them in boiling water for two minutes. Remove the skin from the feet, and 
put them back to cook with some salt in the saucepan until they feel soft 
to the touch; then put them aside to cool. Remove the carcass, cut it in 
medium-sized pieces, removing the entrails, being careful not to break the 
gall-bag. Put the pieces in a smaller saucepan, adding two teaspoonfuls 
of pepper, a little nutmeg, according to the quantity, a tablespoonful of 
salt, and a glassful of Madeira wine. Cook for five minutes, and put it 
away in the ice-box for further use. 

01. Terrapin Soup. Put in a saucepan one pint of Espagnole sauce 
(No. 151) and half a pint of consomme (No. 100). Add a good bouquet 
(No. 254), one tablespoonful of Parisian sauce, a very little red pepper, 
the same of nutmeg, and half a glassful of Madeira wine. Boil for twenty 
minutes, being careful to remove the fat, if any; add half a pint of terra- 
pin prepared as above (No. 60), and boil for ten minutes longer. Then 
serve with six slices of lemon, always removing the bouquet. * 

02. Chicken a la Richmond. Place a quarter of a medium-sized 
chicken, previously boned, into a saucepan with one ounce of butter or 
fat, one finely shred onion, and half a green pepper, also shred. Fry well 
together for ten minutes; then moisten with three pints of white broth 
(No. 99), adding a teaspoonful of powdered curry, diluted in two tablespoon- 
fuls of broth, good bouquet (No. 254), a spoonful of Lima beans, two table- 
spoonfuls of fresh corn, and six cut-up gumbos, suppressing the stalks. 
Season with half a tablespoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of pepper; cook 
thoroughly for thirty-five minutes; remove the bouquet and serve. 

03. Chicken Fiemontaise. The same as No. 37, omitting the carrots 
and rice. 



I6O THE TABLE. 



64. Chicken Hollandaise. Cut one quarter of a medium-sized raw 
chicken into small pieces with half an onion; brown well together for ten 
minutes in a saucepan with an ounce of butter, and moisten with three pints 
of consomm6 (No. 100). Add three tablespoonfuls of raw rice, half a 
tablespoonful of salt, a very little red pepper, and a bouquet (No. 254). 
Boil thoroughly for twenty minutes; remove the bouquet, and serve. 

65. Chicken a la Creole. The same as for No. 64, adding naif a 
chopped green pepper, one ounce of lean, raw ham, cut in small pieces. 
Five minutes before serving put one cut tomato in the soup. 

66. Chicken a la Portugaise. Prepare the chicken as for No. 64; 
add half a pint of cooked printanier (No. 51) cut very fine five minutes 
before serving. 

67. Chicken a l'Okr.1. The same as for No. 65, adding twelve raw 
okras cut in small pieces ten minutes before serving. 

68. Chicken With Leeks. Brown for ten minutes, in one ounce of 
butter in a saucepan, one quarter of a medium-sized chicken with half a 
cut-up small onion; moisten with three pints of consomme (No. 100), adding 
three leeks cut in pieces, a bouquet (No. 254), and half a tablespoonful of 
salt and a teaspoonful of pepper. Boil thoroughly for thirty minutes 
and serve, suppressing the bouquet. 

69. Chicken a la Turque. Brown in a saucepan a quarter of a raw 
chicken in one ounce of butter, with one ounce of raw ham and a sliced 
onion, moisten with a quart of consomme (No. 100), and half a pint of 
tomato sauce (No. 205), add two tablespoonfuls of raw rice, a bouquet 
(No. 254), half a tablespoonful of salt, half a cut-up green pepper, and one 
teaspoonful of diluted curry. Boil for thirty minutes and serve, remov- 
ing the bouquet. 

70. Cream Of AsparaffllS. Put two ounces of butter in a saucepan, 
adding three tablespoonfuls of flour; stir well, and moisten with three 
pints of white broth (No. 99). Put in the equivalent of half a bunch of 
asparagus; add a bouquet (No. 254), twelve whole peppers, and half a 
tablespoonful of salt. Boil thoroughly for thirty minutes; then strain 
through a fine sieve, add half a cupful of cream, and serve either with a 
handful of cooked asparagus tops or croutons souffles (No. 134). 

71. Cream of Celery. Heat half a pint of mirepoix (No. 138) in a 
saucepan with an ounce of butter, adding three tablespoonfuls of flour; 
moisten with three pints of white broth (No. 99), put in half a bunch of 
celery with a little nutmeg, and half a tablespoonful of salt; let boil well 
for -forty-five minutes then strain through a sieve; add half a cupful of 
cream, and serve with two tablespoonfuls of croutons (No. 133). 

72. Cream Of Artichokes. Heat half a pint of mirepoix (No. 138) in 
a saucepan with one ounce of butter, adding three tablespoonfuls of flour, 
and half a tablespoonful of salt; moisten with three pints of white broth 
(No. 99), and put in two well-pared, fresh, or three canned, artichokes, and 
cook well for thirty minutes; strain through a sieve, stir in half a cupful 
of cream, and serve with a handful of croutons souffles (No. 134). 

73. Cream Of Cauliflower. Proceed the same as for No. 72, omitting 



SOUPS. 161 



the mirepoix, and substituting half a medium-sized cauliflower instead of 
artichokes. 

74. Cream Palestine, Boil for about twenty-five minutes half a 
pound of Jerusalem artichokes; peel and mash them well, then put them 
in a saucepan with one ounce of butter, moistening with three pints of 
white broth (No. 99), and half a pint of mirepoix (No. 138). Add three 
tablespoonfuls of raw rice, and half a tablespoonful of salt. Cock 
thoroughly for thirty minutes; then strain through a sieve, and finish 
with half a cupful of cream, and a handful of croutons souffles 
(No. 134). 

75. Cream of Lima Beans. Put two ounces of butter in a saucepan 
with half a pint of mirepoix (No. 138), a tablespoonful of flour, and or.e 
pint of Lima beans, seasoning with half a tablespoonful of salt. Moisten 
with three pints of white broth (No. 99); cook for thirty minutes; then 
strain through a sieve, and serve with half a cupful of cream and a hand- 
ful of croutons souffles (No. 134). 

76 Cream of Dried Green Peas. Soak one pint of dried peas for four 
hours; then cover them with three pints of white broth (No. 99), or 
water. Put them in a saucepan, adding a bouquet (No. 254), a good-sized 
piece of salt pork (about two ounces), one carrot, one onion, three cloves, 
and twelve whole peppers. Cook for forty-five 'minutes; then rub 
through a sieve, add two ounces of good butter, and half a cupful of cream, 
and serve with sippets of fried bread. Should water be used instead of 
broth, taste before serving to see if sufficiently seasoned. 

77 Cream Of Barley. Moisten half a pint of well-washed barley with 
one quart of white broth (No. 99), adding a bouquet (No. 254), and one 
whole onion; boil in the saucepan on the stove for forty-five minutes, and 
season with half a tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper. 
Strain through a coarse colander, and removing the bouquet, serve with 
a thickening made of a cupful of cream and the yolks of two raw eggs, 
and a handful of sippets of bread fried in butter. 

78. Cream of Bice. Same as for No. 77, using rice instead of barley, 
and letting it cook thirty minutes. 

79. Cream of Sorrel, Steam three good handfuls of well-cleaned 
sorrel with one ounce of butter. After cooking ten minutes, rub through 
a sieve into a saucepan; add a quart of white broth (No. 99), and one 
pint of bechamel sauce (No. 154); season with half a tablespoonful of salt 
and a teaspoonful of pepper and let boil for fifteen minutes. Thicken the 
soup before serving with half a cupful of cream and the yolks of two raw 
eggs well beaten together, adding six slices of bread. 

80. Cream of Sorrel and Rice. The same as for No. 79, adding three 
tablespoonfuls of raw rice, and cooking for twenty minutes longer. 

81. Cream of Sorrel, fermiere. Steam three good handfuls of well- 
cleaned sorrel with one ounce of butter for ten minutes, and then strain 
it as for the above. Moisten with three pints of broth (No. 99), adding 
one more ounce of butter, one sliced, raw potato, two leeks cut in small 
squares, half an onion, also cut, half a tablespoonful of salt, and a 
II 



1 62 THE TABLE. 



teaspoonfial of pepper. Cook well for thirty minutes, and serve with six 
slices of bread, but add no thickening. 

82. Cream of Chicken. Pound half a boiled chicken in a mortar, then 
put it in a saucepan, and moisten with three pints of white broth (No. 99), 
adding one cupful of raw rice, one bouquet (No. 254), half a tablespoonful 
of salt, twelve whole peppers, and three cloves. Boil thoroughly for 
thirty minutes; then strain through a fine sieve; put in half a cupful of 
cream, and serve with two tablespoonfuls of small pieces of cooked 
chicken in the tureen, or croutons souffles instead of the chicken. 

83. Cream of Game. The same as for No. 82, using game instead of 
chicken; the same quantity of each being needed. 

84. Cream a PAllemande. Heat half a pint of mirepoix (No. 138) in 
a saucepan with one ounce of butter, adding two tablespoonfuls of flour, 
and moistening with three pints of white broth (No. 99); season with half a 
tablespoonful of salt and three cloves. Boil for thirty minutes, then 
strain, and after adding an ounce of good butter, serve with two ounces of 
very finely cut noodles (No. 1182) which have been previously boiled in 
salted water. 

85. Cream of Turnips. Put three medium sized cut-up raw turnips 
in a saucepan with one ounce of butter; steam them for thirty minutes, 
then add one pint of good bechamel sauce (No. 154); rub through a sieve 
and moisten with one quart of white broth (No. 99); season with a table- 
spoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper. Heat it while stirring con- 
tinually, and serve with half a cupful of cream beaten with two egg yolks. 

86. Cream of Celery a 1'Espagnole. Put two stalks of celery, cut into 
fine strips, in a covered saucepan, with one ounce of butter; add a pint of 
good broth (No. 99), with half a tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of 
pepper. Boil for thirty minutes ; then rub through a sieve, moisten 
with one quart of broth, and before serving thicken with two egg yolks 
diluted in half a cupful of cold consomme (No. 100). Add three table- 
spoonfuls of boiled rice, and, two minutes before serving, one ounce of 
butter. After the egg yolks have been added to the soup it should not be 
allowed to boil again. 

87. Cream Of Lettuce. Wash thoroughly the green leaves of three 
good-sized heads of lettuce; drain and chop them up; place them in a 
saucepan with a quarter of a pound of butter, and cook for five minutes, 
stirring it lightly. Moisten with two quarts of white broth (No. 99); 
season with a tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, and half a 
teaspoonful of grated nutmeg; add a bouquet (No. 254), and four ounces 
of well-cleaned, raw rice; cover the saucepan, and cook for forty-five 
minutes. Remove the bouquet and strain the soup through a fine sieve. 
Clean the saucepan well, replace the cream in it, and let it heat thoroughly, 
but do not let it boil, meanwhile stirring it gently with the spatula. Pour 
in -a pint of sweet cream, stir a little more, and throw it into a hot soup 
tureen, serving it with croutons souffles (No. 134). 

88. Cream of Lentils a la Major-domo. Soak one pint of lentils for 
four hours in cold water; then put them on to boil in a saucepan, with two 



SOUPS. 16 



quarts of water, one carrot, one onion, two ounces of salt pork, six whole 
peppers, a bouquet (No. 254), and the bones of one partridge; also half a 
tablespoonful of salt. Cook for forty-five minutes, then rub through a sieve; 
cut half the breast of a partridge in slices, lay them in the soup-tureen 
with an ounce of butter, pour the puree over, and serve with a handful of 
fried sippets of bread, suppressing the bouquet. 

89. Puree Of Partridge a la Destaing. Pound in a mortar the bones 
of a partridge, and half a pint of puree of chestnuts (No. 131). Put the 
whole into a saucepan, and moisten with three pints of white broth (No. 
99), one ounce of butter, and half a tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoon- 
ful of pepper. Boil for forty-five minutes; then rub through a wire sieve, 
adding about an ounce more butter and three tablespoonfuls of cooked 
rice just before serving. 

90. Pure"e of Partridge a la Oentilhomme. Pound well the bones of 
one of any kind of game, place them in a saucepan, add half a pint of puree 
of lentils with three pints of white broth (No. 99), half a tablespoonful of 
salt and a teaspoonful of pepper, and one ounce of butter. Boil forty-five 
minutes, then rub through a fine sieve, stir well while on the fire, not let- 
ting it come to a boil, and finish with one ounce of fresh butter. Serve 
with twelve small game quenelles (No. 228). 

91. Pure"e of Chestnuts a la Jardiniere. Place in a saucepan one pint 
of puree of chestnuts (No. 131), moisten it with one pint of white broth 
(No. 99) and a glassful of Madeira wine; boil for thirty minutes, then put 
in a quarter of a carrot, the same of turnip cut with a tin tube, a table- 
spoonful of asparagus-tops, six Brussels sprouts, and a piece of cut-up 
cauliflower the size of an egg. Boil all together for fifteen minutes, and 
serve after seasoning with half a tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of 
pepper. 

92. Puree Of Beans Soubise. After soaking a pint of white beans for 
four hours, cook them in a saucepan with one ounce of butter and two 
sliced onions, and moisten with three pints of white broth (No. 99); season 
with half a tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper. Boil for 
forty-five minutes; then rub through a fine sieve, and serve with a thicken- 
ing of two egg yolks and half a cupful of cream. Add twelve quenelles 
to the soup (No. 231), and serve. 

93. Potage a la Diplomate. Blanch a beef palate for two minutes in 
boiling water, then scrape it well, drain, cook again for one hour, and then 
cut it up in dice shape. Place it in a stewpan with one pint of consomme 
(No. 100), half a glassful of Madeira wine, and half a pinch each of salt 
and pepper; pour the liquid over and cook for thirty minutes. Now pre- 
pare, in another saucepan, one quart of a stock such as clear green .turtle 
(No. 1 8), add the beef palates, and twelve chicken quenelles or forcemeat 
balls (No. 226) and serve. 

94. Potage a la Windsor. Boil for one hour, in two quarts of white 
broth (No. 99) and one quart of water, three calf's feet; when done, bone 
and cut them into pieces (they are preferable if cold); moisten with three 
pints of their own broth, adding a bouquet (No. 254), half a glassful of 



164 THE TABLE. 



Madeira wine, half a tablespoonful of salt, and a very little cayenne pep- 
per. Boil again for ten minutes, then strain through a fine sieve, darken 
the soup with a little essence of caramel, and when serving add twelve 
crawfish quenelles (No. 227). 

95. Potage a la McDonald. Pound a cooked calf's brain in a mortar; 
add two cooked onions, three raw egg yolks, and a teaspoonful of curry 
powder; rub well through a fine sieve, and when ready to serve pour it 
into three pints of white broth (No. 99) in the saucepan, adding a peeled 
and baked cucumber cut in slices. Then serve. 

96. Potage a la D'Orsay. Place in a saucepan a pint of bechamel 
(No. 154). One pint of white broth (No. 99), half a tablespoonful of salt and 
a teaspoonful of pepper, and let simmer on the corner of the fire for 
fifteen minutes. Add to this half a pint of cream of asparagus (No. 70) 
and one ounce of butter; when finished boiling, put in the tureen six soft- 
boiled and well-pared pigeon eggs, and the breast of one pigeon cut in 
julienne; pour the soup over, and serve. 

97. Potage Montmorency. Add to one quart of boiling consomm6 
(No. 100), in a saucepan, half a cupful of noodles (No. 1182) previously 
blanched in salted water; thicken with the yolks of two beaten eggs, a 
tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, half a cupful of cream, and one 
ounce of butter; pour into the tureen, adding either the minced leg or 
wing of a cooked chicken, and serve with three heads of baked lettuce 
cut in two, on a separate dish. 

98. Potage of Rice a la Maintenon. Take one quart of white broth 
.No. 99), one pint of bechamel (No. 154), half a tablespoonful of salt and 
a teaspoonful of pepper, and add to it half a raw chicken; cook for twenty 
minutes in the saucepan on the fire, then take the chicken out and thicken 
the soup with the yolks of two beaten eggs, and a teaspoonful of pow- 
dered curry, mixed withhalf a cupful of cream; rub all through a fine sieve, 
and serve, adding two tablespoonfuls of boiled rice, and the breast of the 
half chicken previously cooked in the soup, and cut into small pieces. 

99. Bouillon Blanc white broth. Place in a large stock-urn on a 
moderate fire a good heavy knuckle of a fine white veal with all the debris, 
or scraps of meat, including bones, remaining in the kitchen (but not of 
game); cover fully with cold water, adding a handful of salt; and as 
it comes to a boil, be very careful to skim all the scum off no particle of 
scum should be left on and then put in two large, sound, well-scraped 
carrots (whole), one whole, cleaned, sound turnip, one whole, peeled, large, 
sound onion, one well-cleaned parsley root, three thoroughly washed leeks, 
and a few leaves of cleaned celery. Boil very slowly for six hours on 
the corner of the range; keenly skim the grease off; then strain well 
through a wet cloth into a china bowl or a stone jar, and put it away in a 
cool place for general use. 

100. Consomme pare Consomme* plain. Chop up a shin of beef of 

twelve pounds, using a machine if practicable; put it in a large soup kettle 
with two sound, well-scraped, good-sized carrots, two peeled, sound 
onions, three well-washed and pared leeks, a few branches of celery, and 



SOUPS. 165 



one bunch of parsley roots, all well-scraped, washed, and shred, six 
cloves, eighteen whole peppers, a bay-leaf, and the whites of six raw eggs, 
including their shells. Mix all well together, and then moisten with two 
gallons of cold white broth (No. 99), one quart of cold water (all this 
should be done before the soup-kettle has been placed on the hot range). 
Stir thoroughly for two or three minutes without ceasing; and then place 
it on the hot range, add some debris of chicken if any at hand. Boil 
slowly for about four hours, skim the grease off thoroughly, and then 
strain through a wet cloth into a china bowl or stone jar, and put away in 
a cool place for general use. Should the white broth that you employ be 
hot, replace the cold water by a piece of ice well cracked, and the equiva- 
lent of a quart of water, adding it to the consomme very gradually at the 
beginning, but continually increasing, and stirring till all added. (Always 
taste if sufficiently seasoned before serving). 

101. Consomme Dubourg. Cut half a pint of royal (No. 107) into 
pieces; put three tablespoonfuls of cooked rice into a soup-tureen, and 
pour three pints of boiling consomme over it, and serve. 

102. Consomme Massena. Add half a glassful of Madeira wine and a 
bouquet (No. 254) to three pints of game-stock (No. 219), and boil well 
together for two hours. Have ready three tablespoonfuls of puree of 
chestnuts (No. 131), mixing in three egg yolks, adding a very little salt and 
the same of pepper. Take six small timbale-molds, butter them well, 
and fill them with the above preparation. Poach them for two minutes; 
take them out, and let them get cool before unmolding them. Put them 
in a soup-tureen and serve, adding the boiling game-stock. 

103. Consomme aux Pates. When one quart of consomm6 is boiling 
very hard, add three-quarters of a cupful of paste, such as vermicelli or 
any other Italian paste; let them cook for six minutes, stirring frequently; 
then serve. (Pastes such as macaroni, rice, spaghetti, noodles &c., must 
first be parboiled, and, when necessary, broken into pieces before being 
added to the soup.) 

104. Consomme a la Semoule, or Tapioca. Into one quart of boiling 
consomme (No. 100), sprinkle four tablespoonfuls of semolina, or tapioca, 
stirring constantly; boil thoroughly for ten minutes, and skim the surface 
just previous to serving. 

105. Consomme Tapioca or Semoule a la Creme. The same as for 
No. 164, adding to the tureen a thickening of two egg yolks with half a 
cupful of cream when ready to serve. 

106. Consomme a la SCYigne. With chicken forcemeat (No. 226) fill 
six very small timbale-molds; let them poach for two minutes in hot 
water, then set them aside to cool, turn them out, and put them into the 
tureen with two tablespoonfuls of cooked asparagus-tops, and two table- 
spoonfuls of cooked green peas; pour over it one quart of boiling con- 
somme (No. 100), and serve. 

107. Consomme Royal. Take six egg yolks and two whole eggs, half 
a teaspoonful of nutmeg, half a tablespoonful of salt, and a scant teaspoon- 
ful of cayenne pepper; beat well together in a bowl, adding half a pint of 



1 66 THE TABLE. 



cream; strain through a fine hair sieve and fill up six small timbale- 
molds, being careful that they are previously well buttered. Cook them 
in a stewpan with boiling water to half their height; then place them in 
the oven until they become firm, which will take about fifteen minutes; 
immediately after taking them from their moulds, cut them in slices, and 
add them to one quart of boiling consomme (No. 100) when ready to serve 
in a tureen. 

108. Consomme Deslignac. Make a royal consomme for three tim- 
bales (No. 107), but instead of cream use consomme; unmold, cut them 
dice-shaped, and put them in the tureen with half a cupful of cooked 
printanier (No. 109) and one quart of boiling hot consomm6 (No. 100); 
then serve. 

109. Consomme Printanier. Cut out, with a vegetable scoop, two 
carrots and one turnip; simmer them for twenty minutes in water and 
with a tablespoonful of salt, then drain and throw them into a quart of 
consomme (No. 100) in a saucepan with two tablespoonfuls of cooked 
green peas, and two tablespoonfuls of cooked string beans cut into small 
pieces. Add a handful of chiffonade (No. 132), cook five minutes more, 
and serve in a hot tureen. 

110. Consomme a la D'Orleans. Add a little crawfish butter (No. 
150) to eight fish quenelles; fill six long-shaped quenelle molds with this 
and poach them in salted water for two minutes; drain, and after unmold- 
ing put them in a tureen with two tablespoonfuls of cooked green peas 
and as much boiled rice ; pour -one quart of boiling consomm6 (No. 100) 
over it, and serve. 

111. Consomme il 1' Imperiale. Place four tablespoonfuls of chicken 
forcemeat (No. 226) in a paper cornet; cut away the end of the cornet. 
Butter a pan, and with the contents of the cornet, make eighteen round 
quenelles; put on top of each quenelle a small slice of truffle; poach them 
for two minutes in white broth (No. 99); then drain through a sieve, and 
serve in the tureen, after pouring one quart of consomme (No. 100) over 
them and adding a tablespoonful of cooked green peas and six cock's 
combs. 

112. Consomme (xaribaldi. Proceed the same as for No. 107; have 
two green timbales, two red ones; use a very little carmine Broton, then 
use two more plain timbales, and serve. 

118. Consomme Princesse. Wash well three tablespoonfuls of bar- 
ley, drain, and place it in a saucepan with three pints of consomme (No. 
100), and let boil for forty minutes. Add two tablespoonfuls of cooked 
breast of chicken cut in dice, two tablespoonfuls of cooked green peas, and 
serve in a hot tureen. 

114. Consomme Douglas.- Pare and blanch for ten minutes half a root 
of celery as for a julienne (No. 27); then place it in a saucepan, adding two 
tablespoonfuls of boiled rice, half an ounce of smoked, cooked tongue, and 
six mushrooms, both shred very small; pour one quart of hot consomme 
(No. 100) over it and serve. 

115. Consomme Renaissance. With two ounces of pate-a-chou (No. 



SOUPS. 167 



1240) make a handful of croutons, the size of the little finger; cook them on a 
tin dish in the oven for ten minutes, and when done fill them inside with 
chicken forcemeat (No. 226) pressed through a cornet. Put them in a 
tureen with two tablespoonfuls of cooked peas, and two spoonfuls of sliced 
mushrooms; pour one quart of consomme (No. 100) over them, and 
serve. 

116. Consomme* a 1'Africaine. Cut one cooked artichoke bottom dice- 
shaped, also one slice of fried egg-plant cut in pieces; drain them on a 
cloth to remove all the fat, then add two tablespoonfuls of cooked rice, 
and a teaspoonful of powdered curry diluted in water; put these in a soup 
tureen with one quart of consomm6 (No. 100) poured over them, and 
serve. 

117. Consomme h 1'Andalonse. Boil three tablespoonfuls of tapioca in 
one quart of consomme (No. 100); add half a pint of thin tomato sauce (No. 
205), boil for ten minutes, and serve with twelve small quenelles of godi- 
veau. (No. 221). 

118. Consomme Celestine. Make two light French pancakes (No. 1186) 
cover one with chicken forcemeat (No. 226), and sprinkle over it a little 
grated Parmesan cheese; then put the other one on top, and cut them in 
twelve slices with a tube, and serve in one quart of boiling consomme 
(No. 100) in a hot tureen. 

119. Consomme* a 1'Anglaise. Add half a cupful of minced cooked 
chicken, and three tablespoonfuls of cooked green peas to one quart of boil- 
ing consomme (No. 100), and serve in a hot tureen. 

120. Consomme Colbert. Add six poached eggs (No. 404) to one 
quart of boiling consomme (No. 100) before serving. 

121. Consommt Printanier Colbert. The same as for the above, 
adding half a pint of cooked printanier (No. 51). 

122. Consomme Suedoise. Cut three rolls in halves, and take out the 
crumbs; make a preparation, cutting up together one carrot, half a turnip, 
one leaf of a white cabbage, two tablespoonfuls of peas, and one table- 
spoonful of string beans; add one ounce of butter, half a tablespoonful of 
salt, and very little pepper. Leave it very thick, and cook for twenty 
minutes in a saucepan, adding two tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan 
cheese. Fill the rolls with this mixture, and sprinkle the tops with more 
cheese and a few drops of drawn butter; place them in the oven for two 
minutes, and serve with three pints of consomme (No. 100) in a hot soup- 
tureen. 

123. Consomme Rachel. Decorate the bottom and sides of twelve 
quenelle molds with sliced truffles, and the same of smoked cooked 
tongue, being careful to have them well buttered. Fill them with chicken 
forcemeat (No. 226); poach them in salted water for two minutes, un- 
mold, and serve with one quart of boiling consomme (No. 100) in the hot 
tureen. 

124. Consomme Printanier Royale. Add to one quart of boiling con- 
somme (No. 100) three royals (No. 107) cut into pieces, also half a pint of 
cooked printanier (No. 51), and serve. 



1 68 THE TABLE. 



125. Consomme Duchesse. Butter and cover a tin plate with two 
ounces of pate-a-chou (No. 1240), about the height of a quarter of an 
inch. Cook it in the oven for six minutes, then remove, and fill it with 
forcemeat (No. 226) pressed through a cornet; cut it with a paste cutter 
into twelve equal-sized pieces, put them in the tureen, pour one quart of 
boiling consomme (No. 100) over them, and serve. 

126. Consomme Patti. Cut half a breast of a cooked chicken into 
small pieces; put them in a tureen, adding two tablespoonfuls of boiled 
rice, two tablespoonfuls of cooked green peas, and one truffle cut dice- 
shaped. Pour one quart of boiling consomme (No. 100) over it, and serve 
with grated cheese separate. 

127. Consomme Napolitaine. Cut two ounces of cooked spaghetti 
into pieces, adding half an ounce of cut-up, cooked tongue, half an ounce 
of lean, cooked ham, and three mushrooms cut into small pieces. Pour all 
into a tureen with one quart of consomme (No. ioo),and serve with grated 
cheese separate. 

128. Consomme Chatelaine. Take three molds. Add to the four 
whites of well-beaten eggs half a pint of puree of onions (Soubise No. 
250), and a quarter of a pint of cream; beat well together with a very little 
grated nutmeg, and half a tablespoonful of salt. Fill the molds, previ- 
ously well buttered; then poach them in water to half their height for six 
minutes, and unmold. Cut them into twelve pieces, and put them in the 
soup-tureen, adding two tablespoonfuls of cooked asparagus-tops, and the 
same quantity of green peas. Pour one quart of consomme (No. 100) over 
it, and serve very hot. 

129. Consomme aux Quenelles* Have ready eighteen small godiveau 
quenelles (No. 221). Arrange them in a well-buttered stewpan, being 
careful they do not touch each other; pour some salted water over them, and 
let them poach for two minutes. Drain on a perfectly dry sieve, and put 
them in the tureen with one quart of boiling consomme (No. 100), and 
serve. 

130. Onion Soup. Brown two onions in a saucepan with one ounce of 
butter, stir in a little flour, and moisten with three pints of white broth 
(No. 99); season with half a tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of 
pepper, and cook for ten minutes. Place six pieces of toasted bread in a 
bowl; cover them with fine slices of Swiss cheese, pour the broth over 
them, add a few more slices of cheese on top, and put it in the oven five 
minutes before serving. 

131. Puree Of Chestnuts. Boil one pound of chestnuts for ten min- 
utes; peel and skin them immediately, put them in a saucepan with one 
quart of white broth (No. 99), a tablespoonful of salt, and two teaspoon- 
fuls of pepper and a quarter of a pound of butter. Let all boil well for 
thirty minutes; rub through a sieve, and use when needed. 

132. Chiffonade for Soups. Chop well together half a head of lettuce, 
half a handful of sorrel, a few branches of chervil, and a little parsley. 
Use it in soups five minutes before serving. 

133. Croutons for Soups. Cut some dice-shaped pieces of bread, and 



STOCKS, SAUCES, FORCEMEATS, GARNISHINGS. 169 

fry them in a pan with clarified butter; when a rich golden color, drain, 
and add to the soup when needed. 

133>^. Croutons for Garnishing. Cut six rather thin slices out of an 
American loaf of bread; neatly pare, then cut them into heart-shaped crou- 
tons. Lay them on a tin plate, drip a little clarified butter over them, 
place in the hot oven for four minutes, to let get a good golden color. Take 
from out the oven, and use when required. 

134. Croutons Souffles. Make some pate-a-chou (No. 1240), spread 
it out to the thickness of macaroni, and cut with a knife the size of a pea. 
Put them in a sieve, sprinkle with flour, shake well, and fry in hot lard; 
when done, which will take five minutes, drain through a cloth, and serve 
with the soup when needed. 

A pinch of salt represents 205 grains, or a tablespoonful. 

Half a pinch of pepper represents 38 grains, or a teaspoonful. 

A third of a pinch of nutmeg represents 13 grains, or half a tea- 
spoonful. 



STOCKS, SAUCES, FORCEMEATS, 
AND GARNISHINGS. 



135. White-Roux. Put in a saucepan two ounces of butter, and place 
it on the corner of the hot range, add to it two tablespoonfuls of flour; 
keep stirring constantly for seven minutes. Then let it cool, and when 
cold, use in various sauces, as directed. 

136. Brown-Roux. Place two ounces of good butter in a saucepan 
on the hot range; mix in two tablespoonfuls of flour, and cook rapidly for 
about seven minutes, or until it assumes a rich brown color. Let it 
thoroughly cool off, and then use in different sauces, as mentioned. 

137. White Stock for one gallon. Reduce in saucepan on the hot 
range, one ounce of very good, finely shred, salt pork, previously well 
washed, and the same of beef suet. Add one carrot, one onion, a bouquet 
of aromatic herbs (No. 254), twelve whole peppers, and four cloves. 
Brown these well on a moderate fire for four minutes. Add four ounces 
of flour; stir well, and moisten with a glassful of white wine and three 
quarts of white broth (No. 99). Add one tablespoonful of salt, and stir 
until it comes to a boil; then let it cook thoroughly for one hour; strain 
through a fine sieve. This stock should be used without any further 
thickening. 

138. Mirepoix. Stew in a saucepan two ounces of fat, two carrots, one 
onion, one sprig of thyme, one bay-leaf, six whole peppers, three cloves, 
and, if handy, a ham bone cut into pieces. Add two sprigs of celery and 
half a bunch of parsley roots; cook for fifteen minutes, and use when 



I7O THE TABLE. 



directed in other recipes. Scraps of baked veal may also be added, if at 
hand. 

139. Marinade Stock, cooked for one gallon. Stew together a finely 
sliced sound onion and four parsley roots, adding one pint of vinegar and 
four quarts of fresh water, also a quarter of a bunch of thyme, six bay- 
leaves, twenty-four whole peppers, and twelve cloves. Cook well for 
thirty minutes on a brisk fire, then place in a stone jar, and keep it in a 
cool place for general use. 

140. Marinade Stock, raw for six persons. Finely slice one 
medium-sized, sound, peeled onion, place it in an earthen crock, with 
three slices of lemon, two bay-leaves, twelve whole peppers, four cloves, 
three whole mace, and three sprigs of parsley roots. Add to these two 
tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, a cupful of vinegar, and a pinch of salt. Place 
the meat or fish in this, and leave it to souse as long as necessary, or 
about six hours. 

141. Meat Glaze Glace de Viande. As this meat glaze, when prop- 
erly made, will keep in perfect condition for any length of time, I would 
advise that half a pint be made at a time, in the following manner. Place 
in a large saucepan ten quarts of white broth (No. 99), or nine quarts of 
consomme (No. 100), and reduce it on a moderate fire for fully four hours, 
at which time it should be reduced to half a pint. Transfer it in a stone 
jar or bowl; put a cover on, and keep in a cool place for general use. 

142. Court Bouillon. Cut up one good-sized, peeled and well-washed 
carrot, with a sound onion, and half a bunch of parsley roots, also cut up; 
brown them in a glassful of white or red wine, according to the fish; add 
to it any well-washed pieces of fish-heads and a pint of water. Season 
with half a pinch each of salt and pepper. Boil well for five minutes; let 
cool; strain through a napkin or a sieve into a jar, and use when needed. 
Always avoid straining anything acid into tin or copper vessels to pre- 
vent blackening. 

143. Cooked Fine Herbs. Chop up one sound onion and, two well- 
peeled shallots ; brown them in a saucepan with one ounce of butter, for 
five minutes, then add double the quantity of finely minced mushrooms 
and a grain of garlic ; season with half a tablespoonf ul of salt and a tea- 
spoonful of pepper, and finish with a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 
Cook ten minutes longer, and then let it cool. 

144. Raw Fine Herbs. Chop separately, half an onion, two shallots, 
two sprigs of parsley, four hairs of chives, and the same of chervil; mix 
thoroughly before using. 

145. Butter, maitre d'hotel. Put one ounce of good butter in a 
bowl with a teaspoonful of very finely chopped parsley, adding the juice 
of half a sound lemon. Mingle well with a very little nutmeg, and keep 
it in a cool place to use when needed. 

146. Anchovy Butter. To one ounce of good butter, add one tea- 
spoonful of anchovy essence; mix well, and keep it on ice for general use. 

147. Butter a la Ravigote. Pound together in a mortar one sprig of 
parsley, the same of tarragon, very little chives, the same of chervil, and 



STOCKS, SAUCES, FORCEMEATS, GARNISHINGS. 171 

one small, peeled shallot. Add half a teasponful of anchovy essence, one 
ounce of good butter, and half a drop of spinach-green. Rub through a 
fine sieve, and keep it in a cool place for general use. 

148. Horseradish Butter. Pound in a mortar one teaspoonful of 
grated horseradish with one ounce of good butter, and season with very 
little red pepper third of a saltspoonful. Rub through a fine sieve, and 
keep it in a cool place. When this butter is added to other sauces, it 
should not boil again. 

149. Lobster Butter. Extract the coral from one cooked lobster (the 
eggs may be used instead); pound it in a mortar to a paste, mixing it with 
one ounce of good butter and a teaspoonful of mustard. Rub through a 
fine sieve, and keep in a cool place. The butter can also be used for 
coloring purposes. 

150. Crawfish Butter. Pick the meat from the tails of twelve boiled 
crawfish; dry the shells, and pound them all together in a mortar, adding 
one ounce of good butter; then place it in a saucepan on a moderate fire, 
stirring, until it clarifies, for about five minutes; then strain through a 
napkin, letting it drop into cold water. When it is congealed, take it out, 
and place it in a warm basin, stirring until it assumes the desired color. 
The same method can be used for lobsters and shrimps. 

151. Sauce Espagnole for one gallon. Mix one pint of raw, strong 
mirepoix (No. 138) with two ounces of good fat (chicken's fat is preferable). 
Mix with the compound four ounces of flour, and moisten with one gallon 
of white broth (No. 99). Stir well, and then add, if handy, some baked 
veal and ham bones. Boil for three hours, and then remove the fat very 
carefully; rub the sauce through a very fine sieve, and keep it for many 
purposes in cooking. 

152. Sauce Veloute. Melt one ounce of good butter in a saucepan, 
adding two tablespoonfuls of flour, and stir well, not letting it get brown. 
Moisten with a pint and a half of good veal and chicken stock, the stronger 
the better. Throw in a garnished bouquet (No. 254), half a cupful of 
mushroom liquor, if at hand, six whole peppers, half a pinch of salt, and 
a very little nutmeg. Boil for twenty minutes, stirring continuously with 
a wooden spatula; then remove to the side of the fire, skim thoroughly, 
and let it continue simmering slowly for one hour. Then rub through a 
fine sieve. This sauce will make the foundation for any kind of good 
white stock. 

153. Sauce Villeroi, Strain and place in a saucepan with one ounce 
of butter, two tablespoonfuls of raw mirepoix (No. 138), adding two table- 
spoonfuls of flour. Cook, and mix well together for five minutes; moisten 
with three pints of white broth (No. 99), and season with half a table- 
spoonful of salt. Boil for one hour; then strain through a fine sieve and 
use when needed. 

154. Bechamel Sauce. Place in a saucepan two ounces of butter, add 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, and stir constantly for five minutes. Moisten 
with a pint and a half of boiling milk, being careful to pour it in gradually; 
then beat it well with a whisk. Add half a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, 



172 THE TABLE. 



a pinch of salt, a bouquet (No. 254), twelve whole peppers, and a little 
mushroom liquor, if at hand. Cook well for fifteen minutes, and when 
done rub through a fine sieve. 

155. Melted Butter Sauce. Put one ounce of good butter in a sauce- 
pan on a slow fire, stir, and when melted add the juice of half a lemon. 
Serve in a sauce bowl. 

156. Nut-brown Butter Sauce. Place one ounce of good butter in a 
frying-pan, let it heat until it assumes a nut-brown color, then add one 
drop of vinegar, and use when needed. 

157. Black Butter Sauce. Warm one ounce of good butter in the fry- 
ing-pan until it becomes brown ; add six parsley leaves, heat again for one 
minute, then throw in five drops of vinegar. Pour it into a sauce-bowl 
and serve. 

168. Lobster Sauce. Pour one pint of Hollandaise sauce (No. 160) 
into a saucepan ; place it on the hot stove, but do not allow it to boil. 
Add the claw of a good-sized boiled lobster cut into lozenge-shaped pieces; 
heat well for five minutes, stirring it lightly, add a quarter of an ounce of 
lobster butter (No. 149), and serve when needed. 

159. Drawn-Butter Sauce. Put two ounces of butter in a sauce- 
pan, adding two tablespoonfuls of flour while stirring ; moisten with one 
quart of water, and season with one tablespoonful of salt and half a tea- 
spoonful of pepper. Let it simmer on the side of the stove for thirty 
minutes until it thickens ; then add, little by little, half an ounce of 
butter, beating it continuously until it becomes perfectly white. Squeeze 
in the juice of a lemon ; stir once more, strain through a hair sieve 
and serve. 

160. Sauce Hollandaise. Place one sound, sliced onion, six whole 
peppers and a bay-leaf in a saucepan with two ounces of good butter on 
the hot stove ; stir in two tablespoonfuls of flour to thicken, then moisten 
with a pint and a half of either chicken or white broth (No. 99); mix well 
with a whisk or wooden spatula, being careful to remove any accumulated' 
fat. Add half a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg and half a tablespoonful of 
salt, and cook for twenty-five minutes. Beat the yolks of three eggs 
separately with the juice of half a medium-sized sound lemon. Pour them 
gradually into the sauce, being careful not to boil it again after they have 
been added. Rub through a hair sieve into a serving bowl, and finish 
with half an ounce of good butter, mixing it well, and serve. 

161. Egg Sauce. Use one pint of the Hollandaise sauce (No. 160), 
and when ready to serve sprinkle it with two chopped hard-boiled eggs 
and a teaspoonful of minced parsley. 

162. Bread Sauce. Crumble one and a half ounces of fresh bread 
crumbs, and place them in a saucepan with not quite half a cupful of cold 
water ; add half an ounce of butter, half a tablespoonful of salt, and six 
whole peppers. Cook for five minutes ; then pour in half a cupful of 
cream or milk. Cook again for five minutes, and serve in a sauce-bowl, 
removing the peppers. 

163. Anchoyy Sauce. To three-quarters of a pint of drawn-butter 



STOCKS, SAUCES, FORCEMEATS, GARNISHJNGS. 173 

sauce (No. 159), or Hollandaise sauce (No. 160), add one tablespoonful of 
anchovy essence ; beat well together and serve. 

164. Horseradish Sauce. Add two tablespoonfuls of grated horse- 
radish to three-quarters of a pint of bechamel sauce (No. 154); also half a 
pinch of powdered sugar, a third of a pinch of cayenne pepper, and half a 
pinch of salt. Boil for five minutes. Should the sauce be too thick add 
a little cream or milk, and three drops of vinegar in case the horseradish 
be fresh. 

165. Sauce Percillade. Pour half a cupful of sweet oil into an 
earthen bowl with the juice of half a lemon, half a tablespoonful of salt, 
and a scant teaspoonful of pepper. Beat well with a spoon or whisk, 
adding one teaspoonful of parsley, half the quantity of chervil, the same 
of tarragon and chives all chopped very fine together, and a teaspoonful of 
mustard. Mix the whole well before serving. 

166. Sauce Bearnaise. Chop very fine two medium-sized, sound, 
well-peeled shallots; place them in a small saucepan on the hot range, 
with two tablespoonfuls of either tarragon or chervil vinegar, and five 
whole crushed peppers. Reduce until nearly dry, then put away to cool. 
Mingle with it six fresh raw egg yolks, sharply stirring meanwhile, then 
gradually add one and a half ounce of good fresh butter ; seasoning with 
half a tablespoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, and 
twelve finely chopped sound tarragon leaves. Have a much wider pan on 
the fire with boiling water, place the small one containing the ingredients 
into the other, and see that the boiling water reaches up to half its height; 
thoroughly heat up, beating briskly with the whisk; when the sauce is firm 
add one teaspoonful of melted meat-glaze (No. 141), beat lightly for two 
seconds longer, then strain through an ordinary, clean kitchen towe4, 
neatly arrange the sauce on a hot dish to be sent to the table ; and dress 
over it any article required to be served. 

167. Sauce Trianon. The same as for Bearnaise sauce (No. i66),but 
pour the sauce over the article to be served, instead of under ; finish with 
two medium-sized sliced truffles, nicely arranged on top. 

168. Apple Sauce. Core, peel and quarter four sour apples. Place 
them in a saucepan with half a glassful of water, half a tablespoonful of 
salt, and two ounces of sugar. Cover and cook for about twenty-five 
minutes, or until the apples are reduced to a marmalade ; then strain 
through a colander, and add the third of a pinch of cinnamon, if necessary. 

169. Mint Sauce. Take one-quarter of a bunch of finely minced mint- 
leaves, moistening with half a cupful of water and half a cupful of broth 
(No. 99), or consomme (No. 100); add four tablespoonfuls of vinegar, a 
tablespoonful of salt, and half an ounce of sugar ; stir well and serve in a 
sauce-bowl. 

170. Green Sauce. Pound in a mortar one sprig of parsley and three 
hairs of chervil ; add three medium-sized vinegar-pickles, half a small, 
white onion, one anchovy, and a teaspoonful of capers. Mix these with 
soaked bread the size of an egg, and pound all well together. When the 
preparation is reduced to a paste, rub it through a fine sieve, put it in a 



I 74 THE TABLE. 



bowl and stir well, adding half a cupful of sweet oil, two tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar, half a teaspoonful of pepper, and half a tablespoonful of salt. 
This sauce must be consistent and 01 a green color. 

171. Supreme Sauce. Clean thoroughly the carcass of one raw 
chicken and place it in a saucepan, covering it with water ; cook quickly, 
and at the first boil take it off, drain and wash the carcass well. Put it 
back into a very clean saucepan, covering it with one quart of white broth 
(No. 99), adding a bouquet (No. 254) and half a tablespoonful of salt. 
Cook for forty-five minutes ; have two tablespoonfuls of white roux (No. 
135) separate ; pour the broth over it, continuing to stir ; reduce to half, 
and strain through a fine Chinese strainer. Add half a cupful of good 
cream and an ounce of fresh butter, and finish with the juice of half a 
lemon. 

172. Tarragon Sauce. Put half a pint sauce veloute (No. 152) to 
boil in a saucepan on the hot stove. Add half a cupful of white broth 
(No. 99) and two sprigs of tarragon. Season with a very little salt, and 
cook for ten minutes. Cut up very fine, and add to the sauce when serv- 
ing twelve blanched tarragon leaves. 

173. Oyster Sauce. Open eighteen medium-sized, fine Shrewsbury 
oysters and put them in a saucepan with one ounce of good butter, pla- 
cing the pan on the stove. Cook for four minutes ; remove half the liquid 
from the pan and add a pint of hot Allemande sauce (No. 210). Then with 
the spatula mix lightly together without allowing it to boil, and serve. 

174. Indian Sauce. Brown in a saucepan one sliced onion, one ounce 
of raw lean ham, one sprig of thyme, and twelve whole peppers, with one 
ounce of butter. Add a teaspoonful of powdered curry diluted in a pint of 
sauce veloute (No. 152); boil for ten minutes. Then strain through a 
Chinese strainer into another saucepan, being careful to pour in half a 
cupful of cream, the juice of half a lemon and two egg yolks. Then 
serve. 

175. Sauce Normande, for Fish. To a pint of sauce veloute (No. 
152) add two tablespoonfuls of mushroom liquor. Reduce the sauce for 
ten minutes, and place in it two tablespoonfuls of fish-stock (No. 214). 
Let it just boil again, then add two egg yolks and the juice of half a 
lemon ; strain through a fine sieve and stir in half an ounce of fresh 
butter. This sauce should be consistent. 

175K. Normande, garnishing for Meat. Neatly peel and wash well 
twelve celery knobs, drain, and then place six of them in a saucepan with 
one tablespoonful of butter, one pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and a 
gill of white broth (No. 99), and cook for twenty minutes on a moderate 
fire ; then mash them as you would potatoes ; when thoroughly mashed 
place them in a warm place for further action. Take the other six celery 
knobs, cut out very carefully the centres with the aid of a vegetable 
scoop, leaving about half an inch uncut at the bottom to prevent burning. 
Season with one pinch of salt only, evenly divided. Stuff them with the 
above farce; then place them in a saucepan with half a medium-sized, 
sound, scraped and sliced carrot, half a peeled and sliced onion, and a table- 



STOCKS, SAUCES, FORCEMEATS, GARNISHINGS. 175 

spoonful of butter. Cook three minutes on a moderate fire. Add a wine- 
glassful of good cider and a gill of white broth (No. 99). Cook again for 
twenty minutes. Arrange the remaining mashed celery in the centre of 
the hot serving dish, place the meat over it, nicely surround the dish 
with the six stuffed celery knobs, strain the gravy over, arranging a small 
piece of cooked cauliflower on top of each, and serve very hot. 

176. Sauce a la Toulouse. To a pint of Hollandaise sauce (No. 160) 
add two tablespoonfuls of white wine, one sliced truffle, and six minced 
mushrooms. Heat well without boiling, and when serving add a little 
meat-glaze (No. 141). 

177. Sauce maitre d'hotel, liee. Add to half a pint of warm Hol- 
landaise sauce (No. 160), a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, half an ounce 
of butter, a scant teaspoonful of pepper, and half a teaspoonful of nutmeg; 
then serve. 

178. Shrimp Sauce. Place half an ounce of shrimp butter (No. 150) 
in half a pint of Hollandaise sauce (No. 160) ; stir well on the fire for five 
minutes, and when ready to serve add twelve picked shrimp tails and the 
juice of half a lemon. Heat without boiling, and serve. 

179. Sauce a la Tenitienne. Reduce for four minutes one table- 
spoonful of tarragon-vinegar and chervil-vinegar with six whole peppers, 
one ounce of lean cooked ham cut into small dice, six parsley roots, one 
sprig of thyme, and one bay-leaf. Then strain through a napkin into a 
bowl ; moisten with half a pint of sauce veloute (No. 152), and finish the 
sauce with twelve leaves of finely cut tarragon, two drops of spinach 
green, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 

180. Sauce a la Matelote. Reduce for five minutes one glassful of 
good red wine with a bouquet (No. 254) and a small glassful of mushroom 
liquor ; then add half a pint of veloute (No. 152) and boil for five minutes. 
Strain, and then add the third of a tablespoonful of salt and a scant tea- 
spoonful of pepper, and throw in twelve small, cooked, glazed onions (No. 
972), four mushrooms cut into quarters, and one ounce of cooked salt pork 
cut in dice. Cook again for five minutes, and serve. 

181. Cream Sauce. Take half a pint of bechamel sauce (No. 154) ; 
add half an ounce of butter, and beat them together carefully, adding half 
a cupful of sweet cream. Then serve. 

182. Sauce a 1'Aurore. To half a pint of hot, highly seasoned becha- 
mel sauce (No. 154) in a saucepan add a small glassful of mushroom 
liquor, half an ounce of butter, and three tablespoonfuls of very red tomato 
sauce (No. 205). Stir well on the fire for five minutes, then add square 
cuts of six whole mushrooms, and serve. 

183. Sauce a la DucheSSC. Cut up in small dice-shaped pieces half 
an ounce of cooked ham and two truffles, place these in a saucepan on the 
fire, with half a wine-glassful of white wine ; let reduce for three minutes 
on a brisk fire. Add one gill of good tomato sauce (No. 205). Boil for 
one minute with a tablespoonful of glace de viande (No. 141). Add half 
a pint of Allemande sauce (No. 210). Toss well while heating, but do 
not allow to boil again, and serve very hot. 



I 76 THE TABLE. 



184. Sauce Princesse. Take eighteen chicken quenelles, two truffles 
cut in slices, and one blanched chicken liver cut in dice shape ; place all 
in a saucepan on the fire with half a glassful of white wine, and let reduce 
for three minutes ; then add one tablespoonful of glace de viande (No. 
141), let come to a boil ; add half a pint of good Allemande sauce (No. 
210). Toss well together, but do not allow to boil, and serve very hot. 

185. Sauce Demi-Glace, or Madeira. Add one small glassful of 

mushroom liquor to one pint of good Espagnole sauce (No. 151); also a 
small glassful of Madeira wine, a bouquet (No. 254), and a scant teaspoon- 
ful of pepper. Remove the fat carefully and cook for thirty minutes, 
leaving the sauce in a rather liquid state ; then strain and use when 
needed. This takes the place of all Madeira sauces. 

186. Sauce Bordelaise. Chop up two shallots very fine ; put them 
with half a glassful of red wine in a saucepan on the fire, reduce to half, 
and then add three-quarters of a pint of good Espagnole sauce (No. 151) 
and a scant teaspoonful of red pepper. Cook for twenty minutes, and 
before serving place eighteen round slices of blanched marron in the 
sauce. 

187. Sauce a la Genoise. Strain about two tablespoonfuls of cooked 
mirepoix (No. 138), and moisten it with half a glassful of red wine; reduce 
to half on the hot stove, then add half a pint of Espagnole (No. 151), two 
tablespoonfuls of white broth (No. 99), and a scant tablespoonful of 
pepper. Cook for ten minutes, then strain through a sieve ; put in half 
an ounce of good butter and a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce (No. 163), and 
serve. 

188. Sauce Italienne. Brown two medium-sized, fine, peeled, and 
chopped-up shallots in a saucepan with a quarter of an ounce of butter, 
adding half an ounce of cooked, lean ham cut into small dice shape, four 
minced mushrooms, one finely minced truffle, and a glassful of Madeira 
wine. Let all cook together for five minutes ; then add half a pint of 
Espagnole sauce (No. 151) ; let it then come to a boil, and serve very hot. 

189. Sauce Duxelle. Reduce half a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 185) 
with half a glassful of white wine ; add to it twelve very finely chopped 
mushrooms, two shallots also chopped up and browned in a very little 
butter for five minutes, and half an ounce of chopped, cooked beef-tongue. 
Boil again for five minutes and serve. 

190. Sauce Colbert. Put in a saucepan half a pint of very thick 
Madeira sauce (No. 185); add to it very gradually one ounce of good, fresh 
butter, also two tablespoonfuls of meat-glaze (No. 141). Mix well together 
without boiling ; then squeeze in the juice of half a sound lemon, and add 
one teaspoonful of chopped parsley when serving. 

191. Sauce PerigUCUX.^-Chop up very fine two fine truffles ; place them 
in a sautoire with a glassful of Madeira wine. Reduce on the hot stove for 
five minutes. Add half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151). Just allow 
to come to a boil, and serve very hot. 

192. Sauce Robert. Slice half an onion and fry it in a saucepan with 
half an ounce of butter and a teaspoonful of sugar until it is of a golden 



STOCKS, SAUCES, FORCEMEATS, GARNISHINGS. IJJ 

color, or about five minutes ; then moisten with half a glassful of white 
wine and half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151). Boil for ten minutes ; 
then add a teaspoonful of dry English mustard, diluted in cold broth or 
gravy ; stir carefully, and finally rub through a hair sieve and serve. 

193. Sauce Salmi. Place in a saucepan two tablespoonfuls of fumet 
of game (No. 213) with a half pint of Madeira sauce (No.' 185) ; add two 
or three livers of any kind of game at hand, cut into small dice-shape 
pieces. Cook together on a moderate fire for ten minutes ; then strain 
through a colander; mix in the zest of a sound lemon just before serving. 

194. Sauce Poivrade. Fry in half an ounce of butter half an onion 
and half a carrot, cut up, a sprig of thyme, one bay-leaf, six whole peppers, 
three cloves, a quarter of a bunch of parsley-roots, and half an ounce of 
raw ham cut in pieces. Cook it together for five minutes, then moisten 
with two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and a pint of Espagnole sauce cNo. 
151). Boil thoroughly for twenty minutes, then strain through a colander, 
being careful to remove every particle of grease. 

195. Sauce Napolitaine. Reduce in a saucepan two tablespoonfuls of 
raw mirepoix (No. 138) with half an ounce of butter ; after five minutes 
moisten with a small glassful of Madeira wine, half a pint of Espagnole 
sauce (No. 151), two tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce (No. 205), and two 
tablespoonfuls of fumet of game (No. 218), if any on hand. Reduce for 
ten minutes, and rub through a sieve. 

196. Sauce Hachee. Chop up very fine two shallots and fry them 
lightly in a saucepan with half an ounce of butter ; add a tablespoonful of 
capers and three small chopped vinegar-pickles, also a teaspoonful of 
vinegar. Reduce the sauce for ten minutes ; then moisten with half a 
pint of Espag/iole sauce (151), adding a tablespoonful of cooked fine herbs 
(No. 143). Cook again for ten minutes, and serve. 

197. Sauce Chasseur. Reduce in a saucepan half a pint of Espagnole 
sauce (No. 151) with two tablespoonfuls of fumet of game (No. 218); after 
five minutes thicken it with two tablespoonfuls of hare's blood the blood 
of any other kind of game will answer mixed with six drops of vinegar. 
Do not let it boil after the blood is added to the sauce. 

198. Sauce Diable. Pour a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151) into a 
saucepan with a teaspoonful of dry mustard, diluted in two teaspoonfuls 
of Parisian sauce, adding a third of a saltspoonful of red pepper. Mix well 
together. Cook for five minutes and serve. 

199. Crapaudine Sauce. Place half a pint of light piquante sauce 
(No. 203) in a saucepan on the fire, add four chopped mushrooms, and a 
teaspoonful of dry mustard, diluted in two teaspoonfuls of tarragon- 
vinegar. Boil for five minutes and serve. 

200. Celery Sauce. Clean well, nicely pare, and cut into dice-shaped 
pieces, and then wash thoroughly in fresh water three roots of fine celery, 
using only the white parts. Lift them out with the hand, so that the sand 
and dirt remain at the bottom of the pan, and place them in a saucepan. 
Cover them with fresh water, adding two pinches of salt and half an 
ounce of butter. Put on the lid, and cook on the hot stove for twenty-five 

12 



I 78 THE TABLE. 



minutes. Drain, and place the celery in the saucepan again with a pint 
of hot Allemande sauce (No. 210) ; toss well for just a little while, and 
serve. 

201. Vinaigrette Sauce. Chop up together very fine one shallot, two 
branches of parsley, the same of chervil and chives, and when very fine 
place them in a sauce-bowl with a tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of 
pepper, and three tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Stir all well together; then 
add four tablespoonfuls of good oil, mix well again, and serve. 

202. Mustard Sauce. Dilute in a saucepan one tablespoonful of 
ground English mustard with a tablespoonful of tarragon-vinegar, and 
half the same quantity of Parisian sauce; strain into this a pint of Espagn- 
ole sauce (No. 151), and place the pan on the hot stove. Beat contin- 
ually until thoroughly heated, then add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 
This sauce must not be allowed to boil. 

203. Sauce Piquante. Place one onion chopped up very fine in a 
saucepan with half a cupful of vinegar ; reduce until almost dry, and then 
add one pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), one tablespoonful of capers, 
three small gherkins and three mushrooms, all finely chopped up together. 
Cook for ten minutes; season with the third of a tablespoonful of salt, and 
a scant teaspoonful of pepper, and serve. 

204. Champagne Sauce. Place two cloves, six whole peppers, one 
bay-leaf, half a tablespoonful of powdered sugar in a saucepan with a good 
glassful of champagne ; place it on the fire, and reduce for five minutes. 
Then moisten with three-quarters of a pint of Espagnole sauce iNo. 151), 
and cook for fifteen minutes longer ; strain through a Chinese strainer, 
and serve. 

205. Tomato Sauce. Place two tablespoonfuls of raw mirepoix (No. 
138) in a saucepan with one ounce of butter ; cook on a moderate fire for 
five minutes, then add two tablespoonfuls of flour, brown all well. Select 
one quart of well-washed, ripe, sound, fresh tomatoes, cut them into 
quarters, and plunge them into the saucepan with the rest, stirring 
briskly with a wooden spoon until they boil. Season with a good pinch 
of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and half a teaspoonful of powdered sugar. 
Boil the whole for forty-five minutes, then strain through a sieve 
into a vessel, and use when needed. This sauce can also be made 
with canned tomatoes, in which case cook them for only thirty 
minutes. 

200. Sauce Mayonnaise. Place two fresh egg yolks into an earthen 
bowl, with half a teaspoonful of ground English mustard, half a pinch of 
salt, half a saltspoonful of red pepper ; sharply stir with a wooden spoon 
for two or three minutes without ceasing. Pour in, drop by drop, one 
and a half cupfuls of the best olive oil. Should it become too thick, add, 
drop by drop, the equivalent of a teaspoonful of very good vinegar, stir- 
ring vigorously with the wooden spoon meanwhile. Taste, and if found 
a little too acid, gradually add a tablespoonful of oil, stirring continually 
until all added. The whole operation to prepare the above sauce will 
take from ten to twelve minutes. To avoid spoiling the sauce, the sweet 



STOCKS, SA UCES, FORCEMEA TS, GARNISHINGS. \ Jg 

oil should always be kept in a place of moderate temperature, say, from 
70 to 75 Fahrenheit. 

207. Malice Tartare. Chop up one shallot exceedingly fine, with 
half a tablespoonful of chervil, and the same of tarragon, and twelve 
capers chopped exceedingly fine. Place these in an earthen bowl with 
half a teaspoonful of ground English mustard, two raw egg yolks, a tea- 
spoonful of vinegar (a small drop at a time), half a pinch of salt, and a 
third of a pinch of pepper. Pour in very lightly, while continuing to stir, 
a cupful of good olive oil, and if too thick, add a little more vinegar. 
Taste it to find whether the seasoning is correct ; if too salt, add a little 
more mustard and oil. 

208. Victoria Sauce. Pound one tablespoonful of lobster coral very 
fine with half an ounce of fresh butter. Then lay it aside. In three-quarters 
of a pint of Allemande sauce (No. 210), place half a glassful of white 
wine and six chopped mushrooms | let it warm thoroughly, without boil- 
ing, in a saucepan, and then mix in the lobster coral. Stir well, and serve. 
A few sliced truffles .can be used, according to the quality of the 
dinner. 

209. Remoulade Sauce. Chop up very fine twelve capers, one shallot, 
three small vinegar-pickles, and add one-half a tablespoonful of chives, 
with one tablespoonful of parsley. Place them in a bowl with a whole 
raw egg, a teaspoonful of ground English mustard, half a pinch of salt, 
and half a pinch of pepper. Incorporate well together, adding four table- 
spoonfuls of oil and four of vinegar, but keep the sauce sufficiently liquid. 
Serve when required. 

210. Sauce Allemande. Melt two ounces of butter in a saucepan on 
a slow fire, with three tablespoonfuls of flour to thicken. Stir well, not 
letting it brown ; then moisten with one pint of white broth (No. 99), 
beating constantly, and cook for ten minutes. Dilute three egg yolks 
separately in a bowl ; pour the sauce over the eggs, a very little at a 
time ; strain through a Chinese strainer, and finish with half an ounce of 
good butter and the juce of half a lemon, taking care that it does not boil 
a second time. 

211. Prussian Sauce. Add to three-quarters of a pint of hot 
bechamel sauce (No. 154), a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, a scant tea- 
spoonful of red pepper, three tablespoonfuls of grated horseradish, and 
two tablespoonfuls of cold cream. Let it boil for four minutes, mean- 
while stirring it well, and use when needed. 

212. Sauce Chambord. Place one truffle and three mushrooms, 
sliced very thin, in half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), adding three 
tablespoonfuls of Court bouillon (No. 142), six. fish quenelles (No. 227), 
and twelve medium-sized, whole, blanched oysters. Cook slowly for five 
minutes, and serve. 

213. Sauce Montglas. Cut very carefully into small julienne-shaped 
pieces one ounce of cooked smoked beef tongue, one ounce of cooked chick- 
en, two truffles, and four mushrooms. Place all in a saucepan, with half a 
wineglassful of good Madeira wine ; place the pan on a brisk fire, and 



l8o THE TABLE. 



let reduce for three minutes. Then add half a pint of Espagnole sauce 
(No. 151), and one gill of good tomato sauce (No. 205). Let all cook for 
five minutes longer, and serve very hot. 

214. Caisson de Poisson Fish Broth. For One Gallon. Fill a 
saucepan with three quarts of water, a good handful of salt, half a glass- 
ful of vinegar, one carrot, and one onion (both sliced), half a handful of 
whole peppers, one bunch of parsley-roots, three sprigs of thyme, and 
three bay-leaves. Cook on a moderate fire for fifteen minutes. Cool, and 
use when needed for various methods of cooking fish. 

215. Duxelle. Reduce half a pint of cooked, fine herbs (No. 143) in 
a saucepan, with a quarter of a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 185), on a 
moderate stove for about ten minutes, when it will then be of a proper 
consistency and ready to serve. 

216. Clear Gravy For One Gallon. Place two carrots and one 
onion cut in slices in a saucepan, with two ounces of uncooked, sliced, salt 
pork, one sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, and half a bunch of parsley- 
roots. Add any scraps of meat, such as shin-bone of veal or beef, or 
chicken giblets, and a handful of salt ; cover well, as it should not color, 
and moisten with one and a half gallons of water. Cook thoroughly for 
an hour and a half, then press through a napkin ; place it in a stone jar, 
and use it after carefully removing all the fat. 

217. Chicken Essence. Press one quart of chicken broth through a 
napkin, and then reduce it in a saucepan until there remains only one-half 
a pint, and use when needed. 

218. Fnmet of Game. Pare and slice one sound carrot and half a 
medium-sized onion ; place them with half a.,sprig of thyme, one bay-leaf, 
a small piece of raw, lean ham, also cut up, and the carcass of any kind of 
raw game in a covered saucepan. Let them brown well ; add a glassful of 
Madeira wine, let it come to a boil ; then moisten with one quart of white 
broth (No. 99), or consomme (No. 100) ; add a pinch of salt, twelve 
whole peppers. Cook well for forty-five minutes, then press through a 
napkin. 

219. Game Stock. Place in a saucepan two game carcasses and one 
pint of mirepoix (No. 138) ; cover them with water, adding a pinch of salt. 
Cook for twenty minutes, and use when needed. 

220. Sausage Forcemeat. Cut up one pound of fresh pork into 
small pieces, season it with one pinch of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, 
half a saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, and the same quantity of powdered 
thyme, and chop ail up very fine. A quarter of a pound of lean, raw meat 
can be added if desired. Use when needed. 

221. GodiveailX Forcemeat. Remove the stringy tissue from half a 
pound of veal suet, pound it in a mortar ; take the same quantity of lean 
veal, chopped in the machine, a quarter of a pound of very consistent 
pate-a-chou (No. 1240), omitting the eggs, and pound all together. Sea- 
son highly with a tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, and 
half a teaspoonful of nutmeg. Add four raw egg yolks and two whole 
ones, and when well incorporated strain through a sieve, and put it on 



STOCKS, SAUCES, FORCEMEATS, GARNISHINGS. iSl 

ice to be used when required in other recipes. Poach it for three 
minutes before serving. 

This recipe can be prepared with poultry or game instead of veal. 

222. Lobster Forcemeat Fry an onion, chopped very fine, in one 
ounce of good butter until it is of a golden brown color, adding one table- 
spoonful of flour to make a roux (No. 135). Moisten with half a pint of white 
stock (No. 137), stirring well and constantly until the sauce hardens. Sea- 
son with half a tablespoonful of salt, a scant teaspoonful of white pepper, 
the same of cayenne, one tablespoonful of English sauce, half a teaspoon- 
ful of mustard, a crushed grain of garlic, and one teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley. Stir well, adding two pounds of cooked lobster, cut up very fine, 
with twelve mushrooms, also chopped. Cook for thirty minutes in a 
saucepan, then put it back off the hot fire ; add four egg yolks, stir again 
for a moment, cool, and serve when required. 

223. Crab Forcemeat. The same as for No. 222, using twelve crabs 
in the place of lobster. 

224. Clam Forcemeat. Proceed the same as for No. 222, seasoning 
it more highly, and having twenty-four clams blanched and minced 
exceedingly fine, so that they will better incorporate in the forcemeat. 

225. Chicken Forcemeat a la Creme. Cut two raw chicken breasts 
in slices, pound them well in a mortar, adding the whites of three eggs ; 
bruise well together, and season with half a tablespoonful of salt, a scant 
teaspoonful of pepper, and a teaspoonful of nutmeg. Add three tablespoon- 
fuls of very fresh cream, strain through a sieve, cool on the ice, and use 
when required. 

226. Chicken Forcemeat. Cut in large pieces two raw chicken 
breasts, pound them in a mortar, adding the same quantity of bread soaked 
in milk, a teaspoonful of fresh butter and four egg yolks, seasoning with 
half a tablespoonful of salt, a scant teaspoonful of pepper, and a teaspoon- 
ful of nutmeg. Mix all together ; strain, and put it in a bowl with three 
tablespoonfuls of veloute sauce (No. 152). 

227. Forcemeat Quenelles of Fish. Select one pound of firm fish 
(bass is preferable), remove the skin and take out the bones. Pound it well 
in a mortar, adding the whites of three eggs a little at a time. When well 
pounded add half a pint of cream, half a tablespoonful of salt, and a little 
white pepper and nutmeg. Mix well, and use when needed. 

228. Partridge Forcemeat. Cut two breasts of partridges into large 
pieces, pound them well in a mortar, gradually adding the same quantity 
of bread soaked in milk, four egg ^yolks, one after another, and a tea- 
spoonful of butter. Season with half a pinch of salt, the third of a pinch 
o( pepper, and the same quantity of grated nutmeg ; thoroughly pound 
all together, then rub through a sieve. If not sufficiently consistent, add 
one more egg yolk. 

When game other than partridge is us>ed add two pounded truffles, 
and use when required. 

229. American Forcemeat. Place on the fire in a saucepan for five 
minutes two very finely chopped onions with an ounce of butter. Soak in 



1 82 THE TABLE. 



water for fifteen minutes the crumbs of a loaf of bread ; press out all the 
water either with the hands or through a cloth, put the crumbs in a bowl 
with three whole raw eggs, a tablespoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of 
pepper, a tablespoonful of sage, a large half teaspoonful of nutmeg, three 
skinned sausages, and a pinch of chopped parsley. Add the cooked 
onions, and mix well together ; use the forcemeat when needed in other 
recipes. 

230. Mushroom Garnishing. Mince finely twelve mushrooms and 
place them in a saucepan with half a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 185). 
Cook for five minutes, and serve. 

231. Garnishing Bayard. Cut into very thin round slices with a 
tube one good-sized truffle, one ounce of cooked smoked beef-tongue, three 
mushrooms, and two artichoke bottoms. Place all in a saucepan on the 
fire with half a wine-glassful of Madeira wine. Reduce to one-half, 
which will take about five minutes. Then add half a pint of Espagnole 
sauce (No. 151), and cook for fifteen minutes. Surround the dish with 
croutons of bread (No. 133) covered with thin slices of pate-de-foie-gras. 

232. Garnishing a la Chipolata for one gallon. Fry a quarter of a 
pound of salt pork, cut dice-shaped, for two minutes in a saucepan ; then 
add half a pint of carrots cut tubular shaped, half a pint of onions browned 
and glazed in the oven (No. 972), one pint of blanched and peeled chest- 
nuts, half a pint of mushrooms, and six small sausages cut in pieces. Add 
two quarts of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), half a pint of tomato sauce (No. 
205), a tablespoonful of salt, and a large teaspoonful of pepper. Cook 
for thirty minutes, and use when needed. 

233. Garnishing Vanderbilt. Peel one green pepper ; chop it very 
fine, and place it in a stewpan with one tomato cut into small pieces. 
Add an. ounce of butter and eighteen canned, picked, and chopped-up 
shrimps ; season with a third of a tablespoonful of salt and a scant tea- 
spoonful of pepper. Cook for ten minutes, and use for garnishing. 

234. Garnishing Valencienne. Cut in long shreds one truffle, three 
mushrooms, and a very little cooked tongue, adding three tablespoonfuls 
of cooked rice ; put all together in a stewpan with three tablespoonfuls of 
tomato sauce (No. 205), a third of a tablespoonful of salt, a scant tea- 
spooful of pepper, and one tablespoonful of grated cheese. Boil for five 
minutes, and serve when needed. 

235. Garnishing Regence. Take one pint of hot Allemande sauce 
(No. 210), add to it six mushrooms cut into large pieces, two truffles, six 
quenelles, either of godiveau (No. 221) or chicken, according to the 
usage, pieces of sweetbreads, six cocks combs (if handy) and six kidneys. 
This garnishing must be poached, before adding it to the sauce, in half a 
glassful of white wine, seasoned with a little salt and pepper. Let cook 
for six minutes, and add it to the sauce ; warm it for three minutes, and 
serve. The same for fish, omitting the sweetbreads. 

236. Garnishing a hi St. Nazaire. Add three tablespoonfuls of 
court bouillon (No. 142) to a small glassful of white wine, also one table- 
spoonful of cooked fine herbs (No. 143) ; add half a pint of Allemande 



STOCKS, SAUCES, FORCEMEATS, GARNISHINGS, 183 

sauce (No. 210), and a third of a pinch each of salt and pepper ; pour the 
sauce over the fish to be served, and garnish with six very small, hot, 
stuffed clams (No. 376). 

237. Garnishing a la Grecqne for roast or broiled meats. Cut off 
both ends from twelve medium-sized whole okras, parboil them in boiling 
water for five minutes, drain, and put them into any kind of meat-iuice or 
Madeira sauce (No. 185). Cook for ten "minutes, and serve arranged in 
clusters with a quarter of a pint of Bearnaise sauce (No. 166). 

238. Godard Garnishing. Take six godiveau quenelles (No. 221) 
two truffles cut dice-shaped, six cocks' combs, six cocks' kidneys, and 
three mushrooms cut into square pieces ; add half a glassful of Madeira 
wine, a pinch of salt, and half a pinch of pepper. Cook in a saucepan for 
five minutes, then add a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 185); boil again for 
five minutes, and serve when needed. 

239. Tortne Garnishing. Boil three chicken livers in water for three 
minutes, let them get cool, then cut them up into three pieces each, put 
them in a saucepan with six stoned and blanched olives, two truffles, four 
mushrooms, and a throat sweetbread, all cut dice-shaped; add a glassful of 
Madeira wine, half a pinch of salt, and the third of a pinch each of pepper 
and nutmeg. Let cook for five minutes, then put in half a pint of Madeira 
sauce (No. 185), and cook for five minutes longer. Serve with six bread 
croutons (No. 133) and six fried eggs (No. 413) as garnishing. 

240. Garnishing Parisienne. Put in a saucepan half a glassful of 
Madeira wine, six sliced mushrooms, three sliced truffles, and let cook for 
four minutes. Add half a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 185), cook again for 
five minutes, then serve. 

241. Garnishing Gourmet. Take a cooked artichoke bottom, either 
fresh or conserved, and cut it into six pieces; place them in a saucepan 
with four mushrooms, two truffles, and a piece of cooked palate, all cut 
dice-shaped ; add half a glassful of Madeira wine, and let cook five min- 
utes ; pour in half a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 185), cook again for five 
minutes, and serve. 

242. Garnishing Cepes. Cut four cepes into pieces ; cook them in 
a sautoire for three minutes with a tablespoonful of olive oil, half a table- 
spoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, and half a clove of crushed 
garlic. Moisten with half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), and serve. 

243. Bordelaise Garnishing, for tenderloins and steaks. Place a 
peeled shallot chopped very fine in a sautoire with half a glassful of red 
wine, and cook for five minutes ; add half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 
151), a small pinch of red pepper, and cook for five minutes longer. Serve 
it poured over the fillets or steaks, placing on each one six slices of beef 
marrow, previously parboiled for one-half a minute. 

244. Marrow Garnishing. Open two fine marrow bones by setting 
them upright on the table, the narrow part on top, and with a sharp blow 
of the hatchet cleaving them in two, striking on one side only. Remove 
the marrow, put it into fresh salted water, and let it remain in for one hour. 
Then take it up, drain, and cut it into slices. Heat half a pint of 



184 ' THE TABLE. 



Madeira sauce (No. 185), add the pieces of marrow, and let it boil up 
once with a few drops of tarragon-vinegar. Serve with the slices of mar- 
row on top. 

245. Garnishing a la Patti. Wash well two ounces of rice ; drain, 
dry, and then put it in a saucepan with a pint of good white broth (No. 
99). Pound the wing of a cooked chicken in a mortar and add it to the 
rice ; season with a tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of white pep- 
per. Cook on a moderate fire for thirty minutes ; strain through a fine 
sieve, return it to the saucepan with half an ounce of good butter and 
three tablespoonfuls of sweet cream, and heat slowly on the stove without 
boiling. Dress this garnishing in an artistic crown-shape around the hot 
serving dish ; arrange the supremes in the centre, and decorate the gar- 
nishing with thin slices of truffles ; with a light hair-brush drip a little 
meat-glaze (No. 141) over it and serve. 

Supremes of partridges, quails, cotelettes of squabs, or sweetbreads a 
la Patti, are all to be served this way. 

246. Garnishing Financiere. Cut a blanched, throat sweetbread into 
dice-sized pieces, put it in a saucepan with two truffles, six mushrooms, 
twelve stoned olives, six godiveau quenelles (No. 221), and two blanched 
chicken livers cut in pieces. Moisten with half a glassful of sherry or 
Madeira wine, and season with half a pinch each of salt and pepper, and 
a quarter of a pinch of nutmeg; add a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 18^), 
cook again for ten minutes, skim off the fat, and serve when required. 

24-7. Garnishing Ecarlate. Cook in a saucepan half a pint of tomato 
sauce (No. 205) with half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), and a little 
cooked, smoked beef-tongue, chopped very fine ; let cook for six minutes, 
then serve. 

248. Garnishing a la Stanley. Pour a pint of very hot Russian sauce 
(No. 211) upon the hot serving-dish. Lay the mignons filets, or any other 
meat, including broiled fillets, sirloin steaks, etc., on top, and garnish with 
six fried bananas cut in halves, and send to the table immediately. 

249. Garnishing a la Montebello. Place a pint of tomato sauce (No. 
205) in a saucepan; add a pint of Bearnaise sauce (No. 166) and three good- 
sized, nicely sliced truffles; heat well by_means of the Bain-Marie, without 
boiling, and serve. 

250. Garnishing Sonbisei Cut up three medium-sized, white onions, 
and place them in a saucepan with an ounce of butter, half a cupful of 
white broth (No. 99), a tablespoonful of salt, and a small saltspoonful of 
white pepper. Cover the saucepan and cook for twenty minutes, stirring 
frequently. Add one pint of bechamel sauce (No. 154), and boil again for 
five minutes. Strain the sauce through a tammy, return it to the sauce- 
pan, season it a little more, if necessary, adding a little grated nutmeg 
and a little warm milk, in case it should be too thick; warm it well again, 
and serve. ' 

251. Garnishing Milanaise. Cut into julienne-shaped pieces two 
medium-sized truffles, six mushrooms, and the same quantity of smoked, 
cooked tongue, and place them in a saucepan with a pint of cooked rice, 



HORS D'CEU VRES. I 8 5 



half a pint of tomato sauce (No. 205), half a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 
185), a tablespoonful of salt, very little pepper, and three tablespoonfuls 
of grated cheese, either Parmesan or Swiss. Cook for ten minutes and 
.serve. 

252. Garnishing Rouennaise. Cut three medium-sized turnips into 
six pieces, clove-of-garlic-shaped, pare them nicely and put them in a 
sautoire with one ounce of butter, sprinkling over them a little powdered 
sugar. Put the lid on tightly and cook in the oven for ten minutes, shak- 
ing it by the handle frequently. Moisten with a pint of Espagnole sauce 
(No. 151); add a pinch each of salt and pepper; cook again for twenty 
minutes, skim off the fat, and serve. 

253. Garnishing Robinson. Cut the gall away carefully from twelve 
chicken livers, wash clean and wipe them well, and then fry them with an 
ounce of butter in a frying-pan. Season them with a tablespoonful of salt 
and two teaspoonfuls of pepper, and after cooking three minutes, put 
them in a saucepan, with a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 185); boil for five 
minutes and serve. 

254. A Bouquet. how to prepare. Take four branches of well- 
washed parsley-stalks if the branches be small, take six one branch of 
soup-celery, well washed; one blade of bay-leaf, one sprig of thyme, and 
two cloves, placed in the centre of the parsley, so as to prevent cloves, 
thyme, and bay-leaf from dropping out of the bouquet while cooking; fold 
it well, and tightly tie with a string, and use when required in various 
recipes. 

A pinch of salt represents 205 grains, or a tablespoonful. 
Half a pinch of pepper represents 38 grains, or a teaspoonful. 
A third of a pinch of nutmeg represents 13 grains, or half a tea- 
spoonful. 



HORS D'OEUVRES. 



255. Salpicon Royal. Cut a blanched throat sweetbread (No. 6oi)into 
small pieces, and put them into a saucepan, with half an ounce of good but- 
ter, six mushrooms, and one truffle, all nicely cut into dice-shape. Thicken 
with half a pint of good bechamel sauce (No. 154), or Allemande sauce 
(No. 210), and let cook on a slow fire for five minutes, gently tossing mean- 
while. Finish by adding half an ounce of crawfish-butter (No. 150); stir 
well, and it will then be ready to use for the desired garnishing. 

256. Salpicon a la Financiere. Take either the leg or the breast of 
a roasted chicken. Cut it into dice-shaped pieces, and put them into a 
saucepan with half an ounce of good butter, adding four mushrooms, one 
truffle, half an ounce of cooked, smoked beef-tongue, all cut in dice-shaped 
pieces, and twelve small godiveau quenelles (No. 221); thicken with half 



1 86 THE TABLE. 



a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 185), and let cook for five minutes. It will 
then be ready for any garnishing desired. 

257. Salpicon ail Chasseur. Cut the breast of a fine cooked partridge 
into dice-shaped pieces, and put them into a saucepan on the hot range, 
with half an ounce of butter, half a glassful of good sherry wine, three 
blanched chicken livers, one truffle, four mushrooms, and half an ounce 
of cooked, smoked beef-tongue, all cut into dice. Thicken with half a 
pint of hot salmi sauce (No. 193), and let all cook for five minutes, and 
use it for any garnishing desired. 

258. Salpicon of Lobster, Crawfish, or Shrimps. Put a pint of good 
bechamel (No. 154) into a saucepan, with four mushrooms, one truffle, 
and the meat from the claw of a cooked lobster, cutting them all into dice- 
shaped pieces. Thicken well and let cook for five minutes, and serve. If 
a lobster cannot be obtained, the meat of three cooked crawfish, or of six 
prawns or shrimps, may be used instead. 

259. Salpicon a la MontglaS. Mince, as for a julienne, four mush- 
rooms, one truffle, the breast of a small cooked chicken, or of any game, 
and half an ounce of cooked ham, or the same quantity of cooked, smoked 
beef-tongue. Put all into a saucepan, adding a gill of well reduced 
Madeira sauce (No. 185) and a gill of tomato sauce (No. 205); let cook for 
five minutes ; then use when needed. 

260. Salpicon, Sauce Madere. Place half an ounce of good butter in 
a saucepan, adding half a glassful of sherry wine, a blanched throat sweet- 
bread (No. 601) nicely cut into dice-shaped pieces, four mushrooms, one 
truffle, and an ounce of cooked, smoked beef-tongue, all cut the same as 
the sweetbread. Let cook for five minutes, then add half a pint of Madeira 
sauce (No. 185), and let cook again for five minutes. It will now be ready 
to use for the desired garnishing. 

261. Timbales a PEcossaise. Butter well six small timbale- 
molds, and line them with cuts of plain, unsweetened pancake (No. 1186). 
Take a preparation of puree of chicken (No. 226), and the same quantity of 
raw forcemeat (No. 220), add to it a reduced salpicon (No. 256), and with 
this fill the molds. Cover with small round pieces of the pancake. Then 
steam them in a moderate oven for eight minutes. Unmold, dress them 
on a hot dish, pour a gill of hot Madeira sauce (No. 185) over, and serve. 

262. Timbales de Nouilles a la Genoise. Sprinkle the insides of six 
well-buttered timbale-molds with grated, fresh bread-crumbs; line them 
with thin foundation paste (No. 1078), and fill with finely shred, boiled 
nouilles (No. 1182), adding an ounce of good butter, and seasoning with 
half a pinch each. of salt and pepper, and the third of a pinch of nutmeg; 
also half an ounce of grated Parmesan cheese. Thicken with a gill of 
strong Madeira sauce (No. 185). Cover the molds with pieces of the foun- 
dation paste, and put them into a brisk oven for six minutes. Unmold, 
and arrange them on a hot dish containing a gill of hot Madeira sauce 
(No. 185), and with the timbales on top. 

263. Timbales Russe a la Schllltze, Prepare six light timbales as 
for No. 262, one and a quarter inches high by two and a quarter inches in 



HORS D'CEUVRES. 187 



diameter. Arrange them on a dessert dish with a folded napkin, and lay 
them in a cool place until needed. Put into a china bowl half of a fine, 
well-cleaned, sound Camembert cheese, mash it thoroughly with a fork, 
and drop on to it very gradually one and a half ponies of old brandy. Cut 
into small pieces two medium-sized, cooked, throat sweetbreads (No. 601), 
and add them to the cheese, mixing well together. Season with half a 
teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, and the same quantity of 
grated nutmeg, stirring well for a minute longer. Then add four medium- 
sized, chopped truffles, and mix again. Divide the above preparation equally,, 
into the six timbales, cover each with a thin slice of truffle, previously 
dipped in brandy, and send to the table. 

264. Croustade a la Regence. Spread out a quarter of a pound of 
pate-a-foucer (No. 1078) an eighth of an inch thick. Clean well six tartlet 
moulds ; line them with the paste, then fill them with cracker-dust ; cover 
them with a buttered paper, place them in the hot oven on a tin plate, and 
bake for ten or twelve minutes. Take from out the oven and let cool. 
Remove all the cracker-dust, and they will be ready for use. Fill them 
with a pint of hot regence (No. 235), evenly divided ; dress on a hot dish 
with a folded napkin, and send to" the table. 

265. Croustades de Riz a la Victoria. Wash thoroughly and boil in 
a saucepan one quart of rice with two quarts of broth and one ounce of 
butter. Keep it as dry as possible so that it remains firm, and add to it 
half an ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, half a pinch of pepper, and a 
third of a pinch of nutmeg. Mix well with a wooden spoon ; then put it 
in a buttered sautoire, spreading it an inch and three-quarters thick, and 
cover with a buttered paper. Leave it to cool with a weight pressed 
down on the top. Then cut it out with a No. 8 paste-cutter into six crou- 
stades (being careful to dip the cutter in warm water each time it is used), 
and with a No. 4 paste-cutter make a mark on the surface of each without 
cutting. Dip the pieces in beaten egg, roll them in bread-crumbs (No. 
301), and repeat this. Then fry them in very hot fat for five minutes ; 
drain, empty them with a vegetable spoon, and fill the insides with a pint 
of hot salpicon of shrimps (No. 258), mushrooms, and^cream sauce (No. 
181). Put the covers on top, and serve the same as the croustades a la 
regence (No. 264). 

266. Small Hot Patties a PAnglaise. Line with fine pate-a-foucer 
(No. 1078) six small, hot patty-molds, fluted, and provided with hinges. 
Pinch the tops and fill them with common flour. Bake in a moderate oven 
for fifteen minutes ; empty them, and leave them to dry at the oven door 
for five minutes. Fill them with a pint of hot salpicon royal (No. 255), 
place a slice of truffle on the top of each instead of a cover, and serve on a 
hot dish with a folded napkin. 

267. Ortolan Patties. Make six patties the same as for the above, 
(No. 266), only use them when cold. Place at the bottom of each a table- 
spoonful of salpicon royal (No. 255), and then place in each patty two 
well-picked, fine, fat, raw, seasoned reed-birds, covered with a slice of 
thin lard ; lay them on a small roasting-pan, place in a moderate oven and 



1 88 THE TABLE. 



roast for fifteen minutes. Remove from the oven, take off the lard from 
the birds, moisten each patty with two tablespoonfuls of good, hot, Madeira 
sauce (No. 185), and serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin over it. 

268. Cromesquis aux Truffles. Bone a cooked chicken, hash the meat 
very fine, and put it in a sautoire with a pint of very strong veloute sauce 
(No. 152), adding two well-hashed truffles, and seasoning with a good 
pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and the third of a pinch of nutmeg. 
Let cook for ten minutes, stirring occasionally, then transfer it to a flat tin 

-plate and let it cool. Spread it out an inch thick ; then divide it into six 
parts, and wrap each one in a veal udder, or a piece of crepinette well 
rolled around. Immerse them in flour batter (No. 1185), and plunge them 
into boiling fat for five minutes, or until they are slightly browned. 
Drain on a cloth, and serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin, decorating 
with fried parsley. 

All cromesquis are made the same way, only serving with different 
garnishing or sauces. 

269. Canape Madison. Prepare six medium-sized slices of bread, all 
the same shape. Toast them to a good golden color and lay them on a 
dish. Cover each toast with a very thin slice of lean, cooked ham; spread 
a little mustard over ; then cover with a layer of garnishing a la proven- 
$ale (No. 642), dredge grated Parmesan cheese on top, and strew a little 
fresh bread-crumbs over all. Place them in the hot oven and bake for ten 
minutes ; remove, dress them on a hot dish with a folded napkin, and send 
to the table. 

270. Small Boucliees a la Reine. Roll three-quarters of a pound of 
feuilletage paste (No. 1076) to a quarter of an inch thick ; let it rest for ten 
minutes in a cold place, then cut six rounds out of the paste with a No. 4 
channeled paste-cutter. Lay them on a borderless, buttered tin baking- 
dish, slightly apart from each other ; cover with beaten egg, and make a 
mark on the surface of each with a paste-cutter, No. 2, being careful to dip 
the cutter each time in hot water, so that the marked outline may remain 
perfect. Put them in a brisk oven for twelve minutes ; then lift the 
covers with a knife, and fill each one with a white salpicon royal (No. 256) 
made of truffles, mushrooms, and finely shred chicken. Set the covers 
on, and serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin. 

All bouchees are made the same way, adding different garnishings 
according to taste. 

271. Coquilles of Chicken h PAnglaise. Fill six table-shells with a 
thick chicken and truffle salpicon (No. 256) ; besprinkle the tops with 
grated, fresh bread-crumbs, spread a little clarified butter over each, and 
lay them on a very even baking-dish. Place them in a very hot oven for 
about six minutes, or until they are of a golden brown color, then serve 
the same as for the above. 

272. Coquilles of Oysters au Gratin. Blanch twenty-four medium- 
sized oysters in their own liquor for five minutes ; add half a pinch of 
pepper and half an ounce of butter ; then drain them, keeping the liquor 
for further use. Add to the oysters half a pint of veloute sauce (No. 



HORS D'CEUVRES. 189 



152), mixed with three tablespoonfuls of the oyster liquor; keep it thick, 
and be very careful not to break the oysters. Fill six table-shells with 
this preparation, sprinkle with grated, fresh bread-crumbs and a very little 
clarified butter, and brown well in the oven for six minutes. Dress on a 
hot dish with a folded napkin, and serve. 

273. Oysters in Shells a PAnglaise. Select eighteen large oysters. 
Put three into each of six table-shells and season with a pinch of pepper, 
besprinkle with slightly fried bread-crumbs, and lay them on a flat roast- 
ing-pan. Place them in a very brisk oven for about four minutes, or until 
the oysters raise ; then serve on a dish with a folded napkin. 

274. Lamb Sweetbreads en Petites Caisses. Blanch, pare, and clean 
six small lamb sweetbreads as for No. 601. Lay them aside to cool, then 
lard them with either fresh fat pork or truffles. Place them in a well- 
buttered sautoire, adding a gill of chicken broth or a gill of Madeira 
wine. Cover with a buttered paper, and let . cook to a golden color 
in the oven for ten minutes. Then lay them on a dish. Put half a gill of 
cooked fine herbs (No. 143) and a gill of well-reduced Espagnole sauce 
(No. 151) into the sautoire, letting itcookfor five minutes. Take six small 
boxes of buttered paper and pour a little of the gravy at the bottom of 
each - r cover with sweetbreads, and place them on a baking-dish ; keep 
them for five minutes in an open oven, then serve on a folded napkin. 

275. Oysters en Petites Caisses. Open and blanch for five minutes 
twenty-four medium-sized oysters in a sautoire with half a glassful of 
white wine and half an comce of butter. Season with half a pinch of 
pepper and a third of a pinch of nutmeg. Let cook for five minutes; then 
add one pint of well-reduced veloute sauce (No. 152), and let cook for 
another five minutes, adding half an ounce of crawfish butter (No. 150), 
and stirring it occasionally. Fill six buttered paper boxes with four 
oysters each, and the garnishing equally divided. Sprinkle over a little 
fresh bread-crumbs, and arrange them on a tin roasting-pan. Spread a 
very little butter over each patty, and put them in a moderate oven for 
five minutes. Have a hot dish ready, with a folded napkin nicely arranged 
on it ; dress the patties over, and serve. 

276. Chicken Croquettes with Truffles. Bone and cut up a medium- 
sized, cooked chickeninto small, square pieces; put them in a sautoire with 
two truffles cut the same way, adding half a pint of strong veloute (No. 
152), and let cook for ten minutes. Then incorporate therein half a glass- 
ful of Madeira wine, four egg yolks, a pinch of salt, half a pinch of pep- 
per, and the third of a pinch of nutmeg. Stir briskly, then put it away to 
COQ! in a flat dish. Now divide the mixture into six even parts ; lay them 
on a cold table, besprinkle with fresh bread-crumbs, and roll them into 
oblong shapes. Dip each one into a beaten egg, and roll again in fresh 
bread-crumbs. Fry to a nice color in hot fat for four minutes. Drain 
thoroughly, and serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin, decorating with 
a little green parsley. 

All chicken croquettes are prepared the same way, only served with 
different garnishings and sauces, or by omitting the truffles and substitut- 



THE TABLE. 



ing six hashed mushrooms. Sweetbread croquettes are prepared the 
same, only substituting four blanched sweetbreads (No. 601) for the 
chicken. 

277. Croquettes of Game. To be made exactly like the chicken cro- 
quettes (No. 276), adding six hashed mushrooms and half a gill of cold 
fumet de gibier (No. 218). 

278. Croquettes of Foie-gras. Mix half an ounce of cooked, smoked 
beef - tongue with half a pint of dry salpicon of foie-gras. Put it 
into a saucepan with a gill of bechamel (No. 154), half a glassful of 
Madeira or sherry wine, and a tablespoonful of meat-glaze (No. 141). 
Reduce for ten minutes, stirring well, then transfer to a cold, flat dish, 
cover with buttered paper, and put aside to cool. Divide the prep- 
aration into six parts each one shaped like a pear roll them in fresh 
bread-crumbs, dip in beaten egg, and put a slice of truffle on the top 
of each. Again roll in bread-crumbs, and fry in boiling fat for four 
minutes. Remove them, drain well, and serve on a hot dish with a folded 
napkin. Any desired garnishing may be added. 

279. Croquettes of Macaroni. Boil a quarter of a pound of Italian 
macaroni in salted water for twenty-five minutes. Drain, and put it in a 
saucepan with a good ounce of butter, half an ounce of Parmesan cheese, 
and a quarter of an ounce of cooked, smoked tongue cut into small pieces, 
and one truffle cut the same. Toss all together, then change it to a well- 
buttered sautoire, spreading the preparation one inch thick on the bottom. 
Cover with a buttered paper, press it well down, and put away to cool. 
Cut the preparation with a plain paste-cutter into six parts ; roll each one 
in grated Parmesan cheese, dip in beaten egg, and roll in grated, fresh, 
white bread-crumbs. Fry in very hot fat for four minutes, drain well, 
and serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin. 

280. Anchovies on Toast. Prepare with American bread six dry 
toasts, spread over them a little anchovy butter (No. 146), and cover each 
with four half anchovies. Place the toasts on a tin baking-sheet in the 
oven for one minute. Arrange them on a dish with a folded napkin, and 
serve. 

281. Caviare on Toast. Prepare six toasts of American bread. Put 
half the contents of a small box of Russian caviare into a sautoire ; add 
two tablespoonfuls of cream, and heat one and a half minutes on the 
stove, stirring it carefully meanwhile ; pour this over the toasts, and 
serve on a dish with a folded napkin. 

282. Thon Marine. Fold a napkin on a radish-dish, and dress on it 
the desired quantity of Thon Marine pickled timny. Decorate with a 
little fresh parsley, and serve as a hors-cFceuvre. 

283. Sardines a 1'Hllile. Lift the sardines carefully out of the box 
to avoid breaking them, and lay them on a plate ; neatly pare off the 
loose skin, then dress on a radish-dish, and decorate with parsley. 

284. Anchovies a 1'Huile. Take a pint bottle of boned anchovies, 
drain them on a cloth, then dress them artistically on a radish-dish. 
Decorate with a hashed, hard-boiled egg and some chopped parsley. 



HORS D'CEUVRES. 19! 



285. Norwegian Anchovies. These are considered far superior to 
the bottled anchovies. On taking them out of the keg they should be 
placed in cold, fresh water for two hours, then drained, and with the 
hand split in two along the backbone. Lay them in a small bowl and 
cover with sweet oil, and use as desired. 

286. Saucisson de Lyon. Procure a medium-sized, fine saucisson 
de Lyon, 'cut twelve very thin slices from it, dress nicely upon a radish- 
dish, and place a few parsley-leaves in the centre. 

287. Mortadella, To be served the same as the above (No. 286). 

288. Tomatoes, side dish. Take six fine, firm, red tomatoes, wipe 
well, then plunge them into boiling water for one minute, drain and 
peel them. Put them in a cool place, and when thoroughly cold, cut 
them into slices, arrange them on a radish-dish, sprinkle a little salt, 
pepper, and vinegar over. 

289. Cucumbers, side dish. Take two medium-sized, fine cicum- 
bers, peel neatly, and cut them in thin slices. Place in a bowl with a 
good pinch of salt, and put them in a cold place for two hours. Then 
drain the liquid off, and season with half a pinch of pepper, a tablespoon- 
ful of vinegar, and the same quantity of oil. Dress nicely in a radish- 
dish. 

290. Celery, in glass. Procure a bunch of fine, white Kalamazoo 
celery, pare off the green stalks, and trim the roots neatly. Be careful to 
save the clear, white hearts. Cut each plant lengthwise into four equal 
branches. Wash them well in cold water, and put them into clean water 
with a piece of ice until ready to serve ; then arrange them nicely in a 
celery glass, or dress on a china radish-dish, with a few pieces of ice in 
the centre. 

291. Celery, frizzled. Another and economical way to prepare celery 
for a side dish to decorate the table. Take only one large head of fine 
celery. Pare off the green stalks, and cut off the root (reserving it for 
a delicious and wholesome salad). Cut the stalk lengthwise into four 
equal branches. Wash them well in cold water, then cut each one 
into pieces about as long as one's finger ; by so doing, all the branches 
will be separated. With the aid of a small, keen knife pare the thin 
sides a little, making five or six slits in each piece, starting from the top, 
downwards, leaving half to three-quarters of an inch uncut; place 
them in cold water with plenty of ice, leaving them in for two hours. 
Lift it from the ice-water, artistically dress on a round glass dish, and 
send to the table. Celery arranged and served in this way makes a beauti- 
ful effect on the table, but requires a little patience in its preparation. 

292. Radishes, how to prepare. If the radishes be 'quite large, take 
three bunches if small, four bunches being careful to select them 
round, firm, and the reddest procurable. Pare off all the leaves and 
stems except the two prettiest on each radish. Cut away the roots, and 
also a little of the peel around the roots. With a small, sharp knife 
divide the remaining peel into five or six equal-sized leaves, beginning 
at the root end, and cutting toward the green stems, but being careful to 



192 



THE TABLE. 



avoid detaching the leaves. They can be formed into any desired design 
by cutting them with care. Place them in cold water until required. 
When serving, arrange the radishes artistically on a flat saucer, the 
radishes meeting toward the centre, the green leaves lying outward. 
Serve with chopped ice over them. 

293. Remarks Regarding- Radishes. The following incident hap- 
pened in my presence over twenty-five years ago. One evening, dinner was 
served to a party of prominent gentlemen in Lyons, France, among whom 
were Alexander Dumas, pere, the great novelist, and JBerger, the famous 
billiard player. While the waiter was in the act of handing the radishes 
to M. Dumas, he saw a change come over him ; anger was depicted in 
his face, and he thoroughly expected to see the radishes, radish-dish, etc., 
flung full at him. He stood amazed, not daring to question the dis- 
tinguished guest. When his anger subsided, he amiably explained 
that the cause of his sudden ill-temper was offering to him radishes 
peeled, and deprived of their green stalks; he asserted that the healthiest 
and best parts had been removed. After inquiries of more experienced 
co-laborers, the waiter thoroughly agreed with M. Dumas, and experi- 
ence has taught him the correctness of his judgment. 

Radishes are a luxurious and healthful adjunct to the dinner-table, and 
can be procured almost the whole year ; but in the spring the markets 
are more plentifully supplied, and that is the most wholesome season to 
partake of them. 

294. Welsh Rarebit. Take one pound of American cheese ; cut up 
in small pieces. Place them in a sautoire, adding half a glassful of good ale. 
Season with half a saltspoonful of red pepper. Stir it continually with 
a wooden spoon until the mass is well melted, which will take about ten 
minutes. Have six nice, fresh, large pieces of toast ; arrange them on a 
very hot dish, and distribute the preparation equally over, serving the 
rarebit very hot. 

295. Golden Buck. Proceed as for the above (No. 294), and when 
ready to serve, dress a poached egg (No. 404) on each piece of toast, and 
serve very hot. 

296. (Gherkin Buck. Prepared the same as Golden Buck (No. 295), 
only adding to each toast a slice of broiled bacon (No. 754), and sending 
to the table very hot. 

297. Welsh Rarebit an Gratin. Prepare six toasts of American 
bread ; broil them lightly, remove, and cover each with a slice of Swiss 
cheese a little less than half an inch thick ; lay them in a roasting-pan, 
sprinkling a very little pepper over. Put in the oven for ten minutes. 
Arrange the toasts on a very hot dish, and send to the table. 

A pinch of salt represents 205 grains, or a tablespoonful. 
Half a pinch of pepper represents 38 grains, or a teaspoonful. 
A third of a pinch of nutmeg represents 13 grains, or half a tea- 
spoonful, 



FISH. IQ3 



FISH. 



298. How to Serve Oysters for Private Families. Oysters should 
be kept in a very cold place before they are opened, and well washed 
before using, otherwise their appearance will be destroyed. They should, 
according to the French custom, be opened on the deep shell, so as to 
better preserve the liquor, then laid on finely chopped ice for a short time 
too long destroys their flavor. While they should be kept as cold as 
possible, they should never be allowed to freeze, therefore they must only 
be opened shortly before they are needed ; for once frozen, they quickly 
turn sour. The proper way to open them is to place the deep shell in 
the palm of the left hand, and break them on one side. The Boston stab- 
bing-knife is preferable for this, but if there.be none handy use a small 
block that the oyster can fit into, and stab it on the edge ; or even a chop- 
ping-block and chopping-knife may be employed in case of necessity. 
Serve six oysters for each person, nicely arranged on oyster-plates with 
quarters of lemon. 

299. Oysters a 1'Alexandre Dumas. Place in a sauce-bowl a heaped 
teaspoonful of salt, three-quarters of a teaspoonful of very finely crushed 
white pepper, one medium-sized, fine, sound, well-peeled, and very finely 
chopped shallot, one heaped teaspoonful of very finely chopped chives, 
and half a teaspoonful of parsley, also very finely chopped up. Mix lightly 
together, then pour in a light teaspoonful of olive oil, six drops of Tabasco 
sauce, one saltspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, and lastly one light gill, 
or five and a half tablespoonfuls, of good vinegar. Mix it thoroughly with 
a spoon ; send to the table, and with a teaspoon pour a little of the sauce 
over each oyster just before eating them. 

300. How to serve Clams. Clams should be served on deep plates, 
covered previously with finely chopped ice. To have them sweet and 
fresh, they should be kept as cold as possible. Serve six on each plate 
with quarters of lemon. 

301. To prepare Breaded Fish. i. After the fish is pared, cleaned, 
and dried, dip it first in milk, then in flour, and fry in very hot fat. 

2. Take very clean fish, dip it in beaten egg, then in freshly grated 
bread-crumbs, and fry in very hot fat. 

3. For certain fish, like whitebait, immerse them in milk, then in flour 
mixed with pulverized crackers, shake well in a colander, and throw into 
very hot fat. Oysters are breaded the same way, but should be flattened 
before frying. 

4. For croustades of rice or potatoes, dip in beaten egg and roll in 
fresh bread-crumbs ; repeat three times before frying. 

302. Salmon, en Papillotes. Procure two pounds of very fresh sal- 
mon and cut it into six even slices. Season these with a good pinch of 

13 



THE TABLE. 



salt and a pinch of pepper. Roll them well. Cut out six heart-shaped 
pieces of paper, oil them nicely, and have twelve thin slices of cooked 
ham (No. 753), then proceed to prepare them exactly as for mackerel en 
papillote (No. 330). 

303. Salmon, oyster sauce. Place two pounds of very fresh salmon 
in a fish-kettle, completely cover with cold water, season with a handful 
of salt, add one medium-sized, sliced onion, half a wine-glassful of white 
vinegar, eight whole peppers, two cloves, and two parsley-roots. Range 
the kettle on a brisk fire. Five minutes after coming to a boil the salmon 
will be sufficiently cooked. Remove from the kettle, drain it well ; dress 
on a hot dish with a folded napkin, nicely decorate with parsley-greens all 
around the salmon, and serve with a pint of hot oyster sauce (No. 173) 
separately. 

The necessary time to cook the above to perfection, from beginning to 
end, will be thirty-five minutes. 

304:. Salmon Colbert. Proceed as for the above, and serve with 
three-quarters of a pint of Colbert sauce (No. 190), also four plain boiled 
potatoes served separately, and cut in quarters (No. 982). 

305. Salmon a la Regence. Take a fine but very small salmon, fill it 
with fish forcemeat (No. 227), and put it on a grate in the fish-kettle with 
half a bunch of parsley-roots, three sprigs of celery, three sliced onions, 
six cloves, and half a handful of whole pepper. Moisten with half a bottle 
of white wine, season with a pinch of salt, and cover with a thin barde of 
raw salt pork. Add a little mushroom, liquor, if any on hand, and place 
it in a moderate oven for one and a half to two hours ; then lift it from 
the kettle, removing the pork and herbs. Slide the fish on to a hot dish, 
strain the broth into a sautoire, reduce it to one-half, and add to the gar- 
nish with a regence garnishing (No. 235) ; glaze the top of the fish with 
just a little crawfish butter (No. 150) mixed with very little white glaze 
(No. 141), and serve with the sauce in a sauce-bowl. 

306. Salmon a la Oenoise. To be prepared the same as salmon Col- 
bert (No. 304), garnishing with four clusters of mushrooms four mush- 
rooms on each cluster and six cooked crawfish instead of the boiled 
potatoes. Serve with half a pint of Genoise sauce (No. 187) separate. 

307. Salmon, rolled a PIrlandaise. Bone three pounds of salmon. 
Parboil it. Besprinkle the sides and insides with a pinch of salt, half a 
pinch of pepper, and the same of nutmeg ; also twelve chopped oysters, 
one tablespoonful of parsley, and half a cupful of bread-crumbs. Roll it 
together, then put it in a deep pan with one ounce of butter. Bake in a 
hot oven for twenty-five minutes and serve on a dish, pouring its own 
gravy over. 

308. Broiled Salmon-tail. Take three pounds of the tail part of a 
salmon. Steep it for five or six hours in a marinade composed of 
three tablespoonfuls of olive oil in a dish with a quarter of a bunch 
of parsley-roots, two bay-leaves, and a sprig of thyme. Take out the 
salmon and broil for ten minutes on one side and five minutes on the 
other (skin side). Dress on a hot dish, and serve with two ounces of 



FISH. 



'95 



melted butter (No. 155), flavored with alight teaspoonful of finely chopped 
chervil, half a teaspoonful of chives, and the juice of half a medium-sized, 
sound lemon. 

309. Boiled Halibut. Put a piece of halibut weighing two pounds 
in a saucepan, and cover it with fresh water ; add one sliced onion, half 
a sliced carrot, and a bouquet (No. 254). Season with a handful of salt 
and two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Put on the lid and let cook gently, 
but no more than five minutes after boiling-point ; then lift up the fish 
alone, drain well ; dress it on a hot dish, and serve with any desired 
sauce. 

310. Halibut Steaks, maitre d'hotel. Wipe well a two-pound piece 
of fresh halibut, lay it on a dish, and season it with a pinch of salt, a pinch 
of pepper, and two tablespoonfuls of sweet oil. Roll it well and lay it on 
a double broiler ; then place it on a brisk fire, and broil for eight minutes 
on each side. Dress the fish on a hot dish, pour a gill of maitre d'hotel 
sauce (No. 145) over, decorate with parsley-greens, and serve. 

311. Trout, shrimp sauce. Clean, wash, and dry six fine trout, 
weighing about a quarter of a pound each. Place them on a grate in the 
fish-kettle, with a pinch of salt, adding one sliced carrot, one sprig of 
'thyme, and two bay-leaves. Moisten with half a glassful of white wine 
and half a pint of water. Put it on the stove, and let it simmer gently for 
five minutes after boiling-point; then drain, and serve on a dish garnished 
with parsley. Send it to the table with half a pint of shrimp sauce (No. 
178) in a separate bowl, also four plain, boiled potatoes, cut in quarters, 
a 1'Anglaise (No. 988). Keep the fish-stock for further use. 

312. Trout a, la Cambaceres. Cook six trout as for the above (No. 
311); when cooked, then place on a hot dish. Put in a saucepan two minced 
truffles, six mushrooms, also minced, and half a pint of Espagnole sauce 
No. 151), also twelve olives and three tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce 
No. 205). Let cook for ten minutes, then skim off the fat very carefully, 
and pour the sauce over the trout before serving. 

313. Trout a la Chambord. Clean, wash, and dry three fine trout 
of half a pound each. Stuff them with fish forcemeat (No. 227), and place 
them in a deep baking-dish, buttering it well with about half an ounce of 
butter. Add half a glassful of white wine, a bouquet (No. 254), half a 
pinch of salt, and half a pinch of pepper. Cook for fifteen minutes in the 
oven, being very careful to baste it frequently. Take the juice from 
under the fish, and put it in a saucepan with half a pint of good Espagnole 
sauce (No. 151). Reduce, and skim off the fat. Add one truffle and four 
mushrooms, all well-sliced, also twelve blanched oysters. Dress the 
trout on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and decorate the fish with six 
fish quenelles (No. 227). 

314. Broiled Trout, maitre d'hotel. Procure six fine trout, of a 
quarter of a pound each ; clean and wash well, drain them in a napkin, 
and make three incisions on each side. Place them on a dish with one 
teaspoonful of oil, a pinch of salt, and half a pinch of pepper ; roll gently 
and put them on the broiler. Cook for four minutes on each side, then 



196 THE TABLE. 



lay them on a dish, pour a gill of maitre d'hotel sauce (No. 177) over, 
and serve with six slices of lemon, or with any other sauce desired. 

315. Trout, with fine herbs. Clean, wash, and dry six fine trout, 
of a quarter of a pound each. Put them on a buttered dish, adding half a 
glassful of white wine and one finely chopped shallot. Let cook for ten 
minutes, then put the gravy in a saucepan, with two tablespoonfuls of 
cooked herbs (No. 143), moistening with half a pint of Allemande sauce 
(No. 210). Reduce the gravy to one-half, and pour it over the trout 
with the juice of half a sound lemon, and serve. 

316. Trout en Papillotes. Take six trout, of a quarter of a pound 
each, and stuff them with fish forcemeat (No. 227). Oil as many pieces of 
paper as there are fish ; put a barde of salt pork on either end of each 
piece of paper, lay a trout on top, add a little salt and pepper, then fold the 
paper and tie it securely with string. Cook in a baking-dish in a rather 
slow oven for about twenty minutes, and serve them in their envelopes, 
after removing the strings, with any sauces desired. 

317. Sole a 1'Hollandaise. Skin and bone well three medium-sized 
soles ; put the fillets in a stewpan, and cover them with salted water, 
adding a few drops of vinegar. Cook for about six minutes. Then take 
them off, drain well, and arrange them on a dish. Pour one ounce of 
melted butter over, with the juice of half a lemon ; garnish with green 
parsley, and serve with twelve pieces of potatoes a 1'Anglaise (No. 988) 
separate. 

318. Soles Normande. Take the fillets from three fine soles, as for 
the above ; fold them in two, and lay them in a buttered, flat saucepan, 
with half a glassful of white wine, three tablespoonfuls of mushroom 
liquor, and half a pinch each of salt and pepper. Cover and cook for six 
minutes ; then lift them up, drain, and arrange them on a dish. Reduce 
the gravy to one-half, add twelve blanched oysters, and six sliced mush- 
rooms, moistening with half a pint of Allemande sauce (No. 210). 
Thicken the sauce well with a tablespoonful of good butter, tossing well 
till dissolved, and add the juice of half a lemon. Garnish the sides of the 
dish with the oysters and mushrooms, and pour the sauce over, the fish. 
Decorate with three small, cooked crawfish, three fried smelts, and three 
small, round croquettes of potatoes (No. 997). 

319. Soles au Crratin. Proceed as for No. 318. Put three table- 
spoonfuls of cooked, fine herbs (No. 143) in the bottom of a deep baking- 
dish, fold the fillets in two, and place them in, crown-shaped. Season 
with half a pinch each of salt and pepper, then moisten with half a glass- 
ful of white wine, and bake for five minutes. Take out the dish, decorate 
it with twelve mushroom buttons, adding half a pint of good Espagnole 
sauce (No. 151). Sprinkle over with fresh bread-crumbs, pour on a few 
drops of melted butter, and bake once more for three minutes, then press 
the juice of half a lemon over the fillets, add half a pinch of chopped 
parsley, and serve. (All fish au gratin are prepared the same way.) 

320. Fried Soles, sauce Colbert. Select six small soles, cut off 
their heads, and make an incision down the backbone. Season with one 



JFISff. 197 

pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and the juice of half a lemon ; roll 
in fresh bread-crumbs and beaten eggs, then flatten them well, and leave 
them to drip for a few minutes; fry them for three minutes in very hot 
fat ; drain, add another half a pinch of salt, and arrange them on a dish 
on a folded napkin. Garnish with a quarter of a bunch of fried parsley, 
and serve with half a pint of Colbert sauce (No. 190) separate. 

321. Fried Soles a la Horly. Fry twelve fillets of- sole as for No. 
320, and serve with half a pint of tomato sauce (No. 205) separate. 

322. Fillets of Sole, Joiimlle. Take the fillets of three soles, fold 
them, and lay them crown-shaped in a buttered, flat stewpan, moistening 
with half a glassful of white wine, and three tablespoonfuls of mushroom 
liquor. Season with half a pinch each of salt and pepper, and cook on a 
moderate fire for six minutes. Arrange the fillets on a dish, and put it on 
the side of the stove ; reduce the gravy to half, adding one cooked 
lobster claw, one truffle, and three mushrooms, all cut julienne-shaped. 
Add half a pint of Allemande sauce (No. 210) ; stir it well, and pour it 
over the soles before serving, inserting a piece of truffle and a mushroom 
button on each fillet, also in every one stick a picked shrimp, with its 
head erect, if at hand, and then serve. 

323. Sole, with fine herbs. Proceed as for sole Joinville (No. 322), 
but replace the truffles and lobster claw by two tablespoonfuls of cooked, 
fine herbs (No. 143), half a pinch of chopped parsley, and the same of 
chervil and chives. Garnish with six heart-shaped croutons (No. 133), 
and serve. 

324. Sole Dieppoise. Lift the fillets from three medium-sized soles, 
put them in a buttered stewpan, with one very finely chopped shallot, 
moistening with half a glassful of white wine, and three tablespoonfuls of 
mushroom liquor. Cook for six minutes, then lay them on a dish, reduce 
the gravy to half, adding twelve cooked mussels, six mushroom buttons, 
and half a pint of good Allemande sauce (No. 210). Thicken it well with 
a tablespoonful of butter, tossing till well dissolved, and throw it over 
the fillets with the juice of half a lemon. Serve with six croutons of 
fried bread (No. 133) around the dish. 

325. Skate or Raie ail Naturel. Pare and cut off the fins from half a 
skate weighing four pounds the half ; divide it into six square pieces, 
wash them well, being very careful to scrape it with a sharp knife, so as 
to remove the mucus adhering to it. Put the pieces into a saucepan in 
which are already placed one sliced carrot, one onion, half a bunch of 
parsley-roots, one sprig of thyme, two bay -leaves, half a handful of 
whole peppers, plenty of salt at least a handful and half a cupful of 
vinegar. Cover it well with water, boil on a moderate fire for forty-five 
minutes, then take it off and lift up the pieces of skate with a skimmer; 
lay them on a table, and remove the skin from both sides ; place them 
on a deep dish, and strain the stock slowly over, and use, whenever 
needed, with any kind of sauce desired. 

326. Shad, broiled maitre d'hotel. Pare and cut a small shad in 
two, scale it and remove the backbone ; lay it on a dish, sprinkling 



198 THE TABLE. 



it over with a pinch of sale, and baste with one tablespoonful of oil. 
Leave it for a few moments, then broil it on a slow fire in a double broiler 
for about fifteen minutes on the flesh side, and for one minute on the skin 
side, leaving the roe in the inside. Put it on a hot dish, spread a gill of 
good maitre d'hotel sauce (No. 177) over, and serve with six slices of 
lemon. 

327. Shad, with Sorrel. Select a small, fine shad, pare and scale it, 
then let it steep as long as possible inamarinade composed of one tablespoon- 
ful of oil, half a sliced lemon, a quarter of a bunch of parsley-roots, and 
half a sliced onion. When ready, place it in a buttered stewpan, with 
half a glassful of white wine, three tablespoonfuls of mushroom liquor, 
also a good bouquet (No. 254). Take two handfuls of picked and washed 
sorrel, mince it very fine, then put it in the stewpan with the fish, adding 
a good pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper ; cover it, and let it cook 
as long as possible on a slow fire at least two hours; then arrange the 
shad on a dish. Add one tablespoonful of white roux (No. 135) to the 
juice, thicken well, and pour the sauce over the fish when serving, with 
some more of its own gravy in .a sauce-bowl. 

328. Shad vert-pre. Pare and scale a small, fine shad, put it on a 
deep baking-dish, well buttered, and season with one pinch of salt and 
half a pinch of pepper, adding two finely chopped shallots and half a glass- 
ful of white wine. Cover with a piece of buttered paper, and cook in a 
moderate oven for twenty-five minutes. When done, put the juice in a 
saucepan, with half a pint of Allemande sauce (No. 210), a pinch of finely 
chopped chervil, and a little spinach green (Breton essence, a saltspoon- 
ful). Let cook again for three minutes, then pour a little of it, through a 
Chinese strainer, on the fish, and serve the rest in a separate sauce-bowl. 

329. Broiled Fresh Mackerel, maitre d'hotel. Pare and split two 
good-sized, fresh mackerel through the back, remove the spine, score 
them slightly, and rub them with one tablespoonful of sweet oil ; season 
with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, then broil them on a brisk 
fire for ten minutes on the split side, and one minute on the skin side. 
Lay them on a dish, pour a gill of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 145) over, 
and serve with a few parsley-greens and six slices of lemon. 

Broiled Spanish-mackerel are prepared in the same way. 

330. Mackerel en Papillotes. Oil three sheets of white paper a little 
larger than the length of the fish. Cut six thin slices of cooked, lean ham; 
lay one slice on each piece of paper, and on top a tablespoonful of cooked 
fine herbs (No. 143). Select three mackerel; make four or five incisions 
on each side; season with a good pinch of salt and a pinch of pepper, 
divided evenly on both sides of the fish, then roll them lightly, and lay 
the mackerel on top of the fine herbs; spread a tablespoonful more herbs 
over each mackerel, and cover with a slice of ham. Then lift up the other 
side of the paper and twist the edges together with the fingers, or a 
simpler way is to fold them the same as trout (No. 316). When ready, 
put them in a baking-sheet, place them in a moderate oven, and let bake 
for fifteen minutes. Have a hot dish ready, and after taking them from 



FISH. 1 99 

the oven, use a cake-turner to lift the fish up gently, and dress them on 
the dish, leaving the paper undisturbed, then serve. 

331. Fresh Mackerel aux Fines Heroes. Choose two fine, fresh 
mackerel, make six small incisions on both sides, and place them in a 
buttered baking-dish, with half a glassful of white wine, three tablespoon- 
fuls of mushroom liquor, a finely Chopped shallot, and half a pinch of 
salt, with the third of a pinch of pepper. Cover with a piece of buttered 
paper, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes, then place the 
fish on a dish. Pour the gravy into a stewpan, adding two tablespoonfuls 
of cooked fine herbs (No. 143), a pint of Allemande sauce (No. 210), and 
a pinch of chopped parsley. Thicken well with a tablespoonful of butter; 
stir well until dissolved, and pour it over the mackerel when serving. 
(All mackerel can be prepared the same way, only adding different sauces 
to the gravy.) 

332. Matelote of Eels. Pare and then cut one and a half pounds of 
eels into pieces two inches in length. When well washed, put them in 
a stewpan with one tablespoonful of butter; fry them for two minutes; 
add a glassful of red wine, a third of a pinch of nutmeg, half a pinch of 
salt, and a third ot a pinch of pepper, also a bouquet (No. 254), a glassful 
of fish-stock (No. 214), or white broth (No. 99), and three tablespoonfuls 
of mushroom liquor. Add six small, glazed onions (No. 972), and six 
mushroom buttons. Cook for thirty minutes, then put in a tablespoon- 
ful of white roux (No. 135); stir well while cooking five minutes longer, 
and serve with six heart-shaped croutons (No. 133). 

333. Matelote of Eels a la Parisienne. Proceed the same as for the 
above (No. 332), only lift out the fish when cooked; reduce the sauce to 
half, adding three tablespoonfuls of Espagnole (No. 151), six mushroom 
buttons, six glazed onions (No. 972), and six fish quenelles (No. 227). 
Stir well while cooking two minutes longer, and serve with six fried 
pieces of bread garnished with Soubise (No. 250). 

334. Matelote of Eels a la Normande. Cut one and a half pounds of 
eels into pieces, put them in a saucepan with a tablespoonful of butter; fry 
two minutes; add a glassful of white wine, and three tablespoonfuls of 
mushroom liquor. Season well with half a pinch each of salt and pepper, 
and a third of a pinch of nutmeg. Cook for ten minutes, then add half a 
pint of good velout6 (No. 152), six mushrooms, twelve blanched oysters, 
six fish quenelles (No. 227), and six small, cooked crawfish tails. Cook 
again for five minutes, and when ready to serve, beat in three egg yolks, 
but do not boil again, and garnish with six fried croutons (No. 133). 

335. Blanched Eels. Select a pound and a half of well-skinned eels, cut 
them into pieces and tie them in rings; put them with cold water in a 
saucepan, with a good pinch of salt and a little vinegar, a sprig of thyme, 
two bay-leaves, twelve whole peppers, a quarter of a bunch of parsley- 
roots, one onion, and one carrot. Place them on a slow fire, and take them 
off before they boil; lay them in an earthen jar with the water they were 
boiled in. (These can be used for frying or boiling, according to need). 

Bluefisll a Plcarienne. Scale and score two pounds of blue- 



2OO THE TABLE. 



fish, place it on a well-buttered baking-dish, moistening with three table- 
spoonfuls of mushroom liquor and half a glassful of white wine. Season 
with half a pinch of salt and a third of a pinch of pepper, then cover with 
a buttered paper, and put to cook in a moderately heated oven for fifteen 
minutes; lift it out, lay it on a dish, and put the gravy into a stewpan, 
adding three tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce (No. 205) and half an ounce 
of finely minced, cooked, smoked beef-tongue. Boil for two minutes 
again, and throw the whole over the fish when serving. Garnish with 
six small, cooked crawfish, if any on hand. 

337. Blneflsh a Pltalienne. Score and scale two pounds of blue- 
fish; place it in a buttered pan, with half a glassful of white wine, three 
tablespoonfuls of mushroom liquor, half of a very finely chopped onion, 
and six chopped-up mushrooms. Season with a pinch of salt and half a 
pinch of pepper. Cover the fish with a buttered paper, and cook in a 
moderate oven for fifteen minutes; take the fish out, lay it on a serving 
dish, and put the juice in a stewpan, adding a gill of Espagnole sauce 
(No. 151), with a small glassful of white wine; reduce for two minutes, 
then pour it over the fish, with one pinch of finely chopped parsley, and 
serve with six heart-shaped pieces of crouton (No. 133). 

338. Blueflsh a la Venitienne. Prepare the fish as for the above 
(No. 337), adding to it one tomato cut in pieces, half a pint of Espagnole 
sauce (No. 151) and six whole mushrooms. Besprinkle lightly with 
fresh bread-crumbs, and throw over all a few drops of clarified butter; 
put it in the oven for eight minutes, and serve with half a pinch of chopped 
parsley. 

339. Sheep's-head a la Creole. Put one chopped onion and one very 
finely chopped green pepper the seed extracted in a stewpan; brown 
them in a half gill of oil for five minutes, then add one tomato, cut in 
pieces, four sliced mushrooms, a good bouquet (No. 254), and a clove of 
garlic. Season well with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, then 
moisten with half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151). Cut a fish weigh- 
ing three pounds in six slices, lay them flat in the stewpan, with three 
tablespoonfuls of mushroom liquor (if any handy), and let cook for one 
hour on a very slow fire. When ready to serve, sprinkle over with a 
pinch of chopped parsley, and decorate with six pieces of heart-shaped 
crouton (No. 133). (All fish a la Creole are prepared the same way, the 
time allowed for cooking depending on the firmness of the fish. The fish 
can be left whole instead of dividing in slices, if desired.) 

340. Bouille-a-Baisse, a la Marseillaise. Brown two sliced onions in 
a gill of oil for five minutes in a saucepan, then moisten with one quart 
of fish-stock (No. 214), adding a bouquet (No. 254), three cloves of garlic, 
bruised and minced exceedingly fine. Dilute a third of a pinch of powdered 
Spanish saffron in water, and add it to the gravy. Take one small eel, 
one very small bass, the same of sole, one raw lobster in fact, all the 
firm fish ready at hand cut them in slices, season with a pinch of salt 
and the third of a saltspoonful of cayenne pepper, and put them all together 
on a slow fire. Let cook for twenty minutes, and when ready, serve in a 



FISH. 2O I 

deep dish, on which you previously arrange six pieces of toast from 
a French loaf of bread. 

N. B. The above should be served exceedingly hot. 

341. Bass a la Bordelaise. Cut a deep incision down the back of a 
three-pound sea-bass, put it in a baking-dish with half a glassful of red 
wine, half a pinch of salt, and a third of a pinch of pepper. Besprinkle 
with a finely chopped shallot, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a 
moderate oven for fifteen minutes. Lay the bass on a dish, put the juice 
in a saucepan with a gill of good Espagnole (No. 151), four finely shred 
mushrooms, and a thin slice of finely chopped garlic; finish cooking for 
five minutes more, then pour it over the fish. Decorate with six cooked 
crawfish or shrimps, and serve very hot. 

342. Bass, with White Wine. Lay a three-pound, well-cleaned bass 
on a well-buttered baking-dish; season with half a pinch of salt and a 
third of a pinch of pepper; moisten with half a glassful of white wine 
and three tablespoonfuls of mushroom liquor. Cover with a heavy piece 
of buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes, then 
lay the fish on a dish; put the juice in a saucepa/i, with half a pint of good 
Allemande (No. 210), thicken well with a tablespoonful of butter till well 
dissolved, and throw it over the bass, serving with, six heart-shaped 
croutons (No. 133). 

343. Bass a la Chambord. Lift the middle skin from the back of a 
three-pound bass, leaving the head and tail covered; lard the fish nicely 
with a very small larding needle, and then lay it on a buttered, deep bak- 
ing-pan, adding to it half a glassful of white wine, and half a carrot, and 
half an onion, both sliced, also a bouquet (No. 254). Season with a 
pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, then cover with a buttered 
paper; cook it in the oven for thirty minutes, being very careful to baste 
it frequently, then lift out the fish and lay it on a dish. Strain the gravy 
into a saucepan, with half a pint of Chambord garnishing (No. 212), 
moistened with half a pint of Espagnole (No. 151); reduce for five 
minutes. Decorate the dish with clusters of the garnishing, and three 
decorated fish quenelles (No. 227) to separate them, also three small, 
cooked crawfish, and serve. 

344. Salt Cod a la Biscaenne. Take two pounds of boneless cod, and 
soak it in plenty of cold water for twenty-four hours, changing the water 
as often as possible. Place it in a saucepan with plenty of fresh water, 
then let simmer on a slow fire till boiling ; take it off, and drain it well; 
return it to the pan with fresh water, and let come to a boil again, then 
scale it by separating the bones. Fry together in a saucepan two chopped 
onions and one green pepper in a gill of oil. Let cook for five minutes, 
then add one good-sized tomato, cut in pieces, one clove of bruised garlic, 
and one Chili pepper. Moisten the fish with three pints of broth, add a 
bouquet (No. 254), three tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce (No. 205), and a pint 
of Parisian potatoes (No. 986). Let cook for forty-five minutes, then add 
the codfish; boil again for five minutes more. Dress it on a hot dish, and 
serve with a teaspoonful of chopped parsley sprinkled over. 



2O2 THE TABLE. 



345. Codfish, bonne feimne. Have two pounds of cooked, soaked, 
boneless cod; prepare it the same as for the above (No. 344), then put it in 
a saucepan, moistening with half a pint of bechamel (No. 154), and half a 
pint of Allemande (No. 210). Add three sliced potatoes, and three hard- 
boiled eggs, cut in thin slices, and half a pinch of pepper. (If too thick, 
put in a little milk.) Cook for about five minutes longer, then serve with 
a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 

346. Picked-up Codfish. The same as for the above, only all the 
materials should be shred smaller, and add three tablespoonfuls of cream. 

347. Fish Balls. Place in a large pan, with plenty of fresh water, 
three pounds of boneless codfish, and let soak for twelve hours. Drain, 
and place it in a saucepan on the hot range, with plenty of cold water, 
and as soon as it begins to boil, drain all the water through a colander. 
Carefully pick out all the bones from the cod, and return it to the saucepan, 
adding five medium-sized, well-washed, and peeled sliced potatoes, one gill 
of cold water or broth, and cook on a moderate fire for twenty minutes, 
then add half an ounce of butter. Take from off the fire. Season with 
one pinch of white pepper, then, with the aid of a potato-masher or a 
pounder, mash all well together right in the pan. Transfer it to a dish, 
and let cool. Make up small fish balls two inches in diameter by one inch 
thick, lightly sprinkle them with a very little flour. Heat in a frying-pan 
one gill of clarified butter; when very hot, put in the fish balls and fry 
for three minutes on each side, so as to have them of a good brown color. 
Gently lift them from the pan with a skimmer, dress on a hot dish with a 
folded napkin, crown-shaped, one overlapping another. Decorate the cen- 
tre of the dish with parsley-greens, and serve. 

Fish Balls a la Mrs. Benjamin Harrison. To be prepared exactly 
the same as above (No. 347), dressing them on six dry toasts, placing 
one poached egg (No. 404) on top of each fish ball, and decorating the 
dish with six slices of broiled bacon, and serve hot. 

348. How to Blanch Codfish-tongues. Procure eighteen fine, fresh 
codfish-tongues, wash them thoroughly in cold water, then drain, and place 
them in a saucepan on the hot stove: cover with fresh water, and season 
with a handful of salt, six cloves, twelve whole peppers, one sliced onion, 
a bouquet (No. 254), and half a sliced lemon. Let them come to a boil, 
then transfer them with the water and garnishings to a stone jar, and 
use when needed. 

349. Codfish tongues au beurre noir. Take eighteen blanched 
codfish-tongues, as for No. 348, heat them in a saucepan with half a gill of 
their own juice, but do not let them boil; drain well, then dress them on 
a hot dish, pour a pint of black butter (No. 159) over, and decorate each 
side of the dish with a few sprigs of parsley, then send to the table. 

350. Fried Codfish-tongues. Take eighteen fine, fresh codfish-tongues, 
wash them well, drain them in a napkin, dip them in cold milk, and roll 
them, one by one, in flour. Put one gill of clarified butter in the frying- 
pan, heat it well, then gently lay in the tongues separately, and let cook 
for three minutes. Turn them on the other side, using a fork, and cook 



FISH. 2O3 

for three minutes more. Lift them up carefully with a skimmer, and put 
them on a cloth to drain. Season with one pinch of salt and half a pinch 
of pepper; dress them on a hot dish with a folded napkin, and decorate 
with sprigs of parsley. Serve a gill of hot tomato sauce (No. 205) in a 
separate bowl. 

351. Codfish-tongues a la poulette. Take eighteen blanched tongues, 
as for No. 348, put them in a saucepan on the stove, adding a pint of 
sauce Hollandaise (No. 160), half a gill of their own stock, and a tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley. Heat well for five minutes without boiling, 
then pour the whole into a deep, hot dish, sprinkle a little chopped 
parsley over them, and serve. 

352. Boiled Codfish, Oyster Sauce. Cover a three-pound fresh cod- 
fish with well-salted fish-stock (No. 214), and let cook thirty minutes without 
boiling ; then take it out and drain it well. Lay it on a dish, and garnish 
with a few branches of parsley-greens, and twelve pieces of potato a 
1'Anglaise (No. 988). Serve with three-quarters of a pint of oyster sauce 
(No. 173) separately. (All codfish with different sauces are prepared the 
same way.) 

353. Broiled Boned Smelts a la Bearnaise. Split twelve good-sized 
or eighteen medium-sized smelts up the back, remove the backbone, rub 
them with one tablespoonful of oil, and season with half a pinch of salt 
and a third of a pinch of pepper. Broil them in a double broiler for two 
minutes on each side; pour a little more than a gill of good Bearnaise 
sauce (No. 166) on a dish, arrange the smelts carefully on top, and serve, 
finishing with a very little demi-glace sauce (No. 181) around the dish. 

354. Smelts a la Toulouse. Take twelve large or eighteen medium- 
sized smelts, bone them as for the above, and then close them up again. 
Put them in a stewpan, with half a glassful of white wine and three 
tablespoonfuls of mushroom liquor; season with half a pinch of salt and 
the third of a pinch of pepper, and cook on a moderate fire for six minutes. 
Arrange the smelts on a dish, add to the sauce twelve mushroom buttons, 
two sliced truffles, six fish quenelles (No. 227), and moisten with half a 
pint of Allemande sauce (No. 210). Thicken with a tablespoonful of but- 
ter sufficiently, and throw the sauce over the smelts. Neatly dress the 
garnishing around the dish, and serve with six heart-shaped croutons (No. 
I 33) (Smelts are all prepared the same way, only adding different 
garnishings.) 

355. Stuffed Smelts. Cut off the fins, wash, and dry well with a 
towel, eighteen fine, fresh, medium-sized, Long Island smelts ; remove the 
eggs without splitting the stomachs open, then fill them with a fish force- 
meat (No. 227), using a paper cornet for the purpose. Lay the smelts on 
a well-buttered silver baking-dish (if possible), and cover them with a 
pint of sauce Italienne (No. 188). Put them in a hot oven and let bake 
for eight minutes ; remove them, squeeze the juice of a good lemon over, 
and lay the silver dish on top of another to avoid soiling the table-cloth; 
then serve. 

356. Smelts ail (i! rat in. Clean eighteen smelts, wipe them very dry, 



2O4 THE TABLE. 



and put them on a baking-dish with two tablespoonfuls of cooked fine 
herbs (No. 143), half a glassful of white wine, half a pinch of salt, and a 
third of a pinch of pepper. Cover with six whole mushrooms and half a 
pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151). Besprinkle lightly with fresh bread- 
crumbs and six drops of melted butter ; place it in a hot oven for ten 
minutes, and serve with the juice of half a lemon, also a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley sprinkled over. (The smelts can be boned if so desired). 

357. Lobster a PAmericaine. Split two fine, good-sized, freshly 
boiled lobsters; remove all the meat carefully, then cut it up into pieces one 
inch in length. Have a pan on the hot range with half a gill of good olive 
oil, and when the oil is very hot add the pieces of lobster. Chop very 
fine one medium-sized, peeled onion, one fine, sound, green pepper, and half 
a clove of peeled, very sound garlic; add all to the lobster, and let cook 
for five minutes, gently mixing meanwhile. Season with a pinch of salt and 
half a saltspoonful of red pepper, adding also half a wine-glassful of good 
white wine. Reduce for two minutes, then add one gill of tomato sauce 
(No. 205) and one medium-sized, sound, red, peeled tomato, cut into small 
dice-shaped pieces. Cook for ten minutes longer, gently shuffling mean- 
while. Pour the whole into a very hot, deep dish, or in a hot tureen, and 
serve. 

358. Lobster with Curry. Pick out all the meat from two good- 
sized, fine, freshly boiled, and split lobsters. Cut the meat up in one- 
inch-length equal pieces. Have a saucepan on the hot range with an 
ounce of very good butter ; add the lobster to it, and let cook for five 
minutes. Season with one pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper. Place 
in a bowl one tablespoonful of Indian curry, with half a wine-glassful of 
good white wine, mix well together, then pour it into the lobster. Cook 
for two minutes. Add two gills of hot Allemande sauce (No. 210), shuffle 
briskly for one minute longer. Make a border of fresh-boiled rice all 
around the hot dish ; dress the lobster right in the centre of the dish, and 
serve hot. 

359. Lobster a la Newblirg. Split two good-sized, fine, freshly boiled 
lobsters. Pick all the meat out frgm the shells, then cut it into one-inch- 
length equal pieces. Place it in a saucepan on the hot range with one 
ounce of very good, fresh butter. Season with one pinch of salt and half 
a saltspoonful of red pepper, adding two medium-sized, sound truffles cut 
into small dice-shaped pieces. Cook for five minutes ; then add a wine- 
glassful of good Madeira wine. Reduce to one-half, which will take 
three minutes. Have three egg yolks in a bowl with half a pint of sweet 
cream, beat well together, and add it to the lobster. Gently shuffle for 
two minutes longer, or until it thickens well. Pour it into a hot tureen, 
and serve hot. 

360. Lobster il la Bordelaise. Add to one glassful of red wine in a 
stewpan one chopped shallot, and half of a small carrot cut into exceed- 
ingly small pieces. Boil for five minutes, and then put in pieces of boiled 
lobster, the same quantity as for the above about a pound and a half a 
pinch of salt, a third of a pinch of pepper and a very little nutmeg, also 



FISH. 2O5 



half a pint of veloute (No. 152). Stew well together for five minutes, 
then serve. 

361. Lobster en Brochette an Petit Sale. Take one and a half pounds 
of fresh, shelled, boiled lobster, cut it into two-inch-square, even pieces, 
lay them in a bowl, then season with a good pinch of salt, a pinch of pep- 
per, the third of a pinch of nutmeg, and a tablespoonful of Parisian sauce, 
and mix all well together. Have six silver skewers, arrange in the centre 
of one a piece of lobster, then a mushroom, another piece of lobster and 
another mushroom; continue the same for the other skewers, then place 
them on the broiler and broil for eight minutes, turning them over care- 
fully once in a while. Remove them from the broiler, dress them on a 
hot dish, pour a gill of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 145) over, decorate with 
six slices of broiled bacon (No. 754), and serve very hot. 

362. Lobster en Chevreuse. To two finely chopped shallots in a stew- 
pan add one glassful of Madeira wine, one ounce of butter, and a pound 
and a half of pieces of boiled lobster ; moisten with one pint of veloute 
(No. 152), and season with a pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and a 
very little nutmeg. Let boil for ten minutes, and with this preparation 
fill six table-shells, or, better still, six small St. Jacques-shells ; on 
top of each lay three slices of truffle and one tablespoonful of good 
bechamel (No. 154). Put one drop of clarified butter over each, and 
place them in the oven for five minutes. Serve very hot on a folded 
napkin. 

363. Broiled Lobster a la Ravigote. Cut three small, raw lobsters 
into two equal parts, taking out the gravel from the head, season with one 
pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, and rub with a very little oil, then 
broil the pieces for ten minutes. Take them from the fire, and remove 
the meat from the head of the lobsters and put it in a salad-bowl with 
half a pint of ravigote butter (No. 147), and mix well together ; take the 
meat from the balance of the lobster, dip it in the sauce, and return it to 
its shell; warm again for two minutes in the oven, then serve on a folded 
napkin, garnishing the shells with parsley-greens, and serving the sauce 
in a sauce-bowl. 

364. Broiled Lobster. Select three medium-sized, good, live lobsters, 
split them in halves, and take out the stony pouch and intestines ; glaze 
them slightly with sweet oil, and season them with half a pinch of 
salt and half a pinch of pepper, and then broil them for seven minutes on 
each side. Place them on a dish, moisten with a gill of good maitre d'hotel 
(No. 145), then serve. 

365. Lobster Croquettes. Make some lobster forcemeat (No. 222); 
form it into the shape of six pears with the hand, roll them in bread- 
crumbs (No. 301), and fry in very hot fat for three minutes ; drain well, 
then serve on a folded napkin, garnishing with parsley-greens, and add 
any sauce required in a sauce-bowl. 

Salmon croquettes to be prepared the same way, substituting minced, 
boiled salmon for the lobster forcemeat. 

366. Lobster Cutlets, Victoria. The same as for the above, only 



2O6 THE TABLE. 



giving them the shape of a chop, and when serving stick a lobster leg in 
the point of each one. 

367. Stuffed Lobster. Fill six empty lobster-tails with forcemeat 
(No. 222), roll them in bread-crumbs, put them on a baking-dish, smooth- 
ing the surface with the blade of a knife ; place them in a baking-pan. 
Pour a little clarified butter over, and brown gently in the oven for six 
minutes, and serve on a folded napkin with a garnishing of parsley- 
greens. 

368. Fried Soft -shelled Crabs. Procure six good-sized, live, soft- 
shelled crabs, cleanse and wash them thoroughly, and dip each one in flour, 
then in beaten egg, and finally in rasped bread-crumbs or pulverized crack- 
ers, using them very lightly. Fry in very hot fat for five minutes, drain, 
season with one pinch of salt, evenly divided, and serve on a hot dish 
with a folded napkin with fried parsley around. 

369. Broiled Soft -shelled Crabs. Have six good-sized, fresh, soft- 
shelled crabs, cleanse and wash them well, then drain them, oil them 
slightly, and season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper. Put 
them on the broiler, and broil for five minutes on each side. Have six 
pieces of toast ready, lay a crab on top of each, slightly glaze them with a 
little maitre d'hotel butter (No. 145), and serve. This makes a delicious 
dish, but must be served very hot. 

370. Hard-shelled Crabs a la Diable. Fill six thoroughly cleaned 
crab-shells with some crab forcemeat (No. 223), flatten them with the hand, 
besprinkle with fresh bread-crumbs, smooth the surface with the blade of 
a knife, moistening the top with a very little clarified butter. Place them 
on a baking-pan, and bake a little brown for six minutes. Serve on a hot 
dish with a folded napkin decorated with parsley-greens. 

371. Crabs a la St. Jean. Add double the quantity of onions to some 
crab forcemeat (No. 223), also garlic, parsley, and chervil (let the crabs 
be in as large pieces as possible). Then, as for No. 362, fill six St. Jacques- 
shells, besprinkle with fresh bread-crumbs, smooth the surface with 
the blade of a knife, moisten slightly with clarified butter, and bake in a 
brisk oven for six minutes. Serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin dec- 
orated with parsley-greens. 

372. Crabs a la St. Laurent. Reduce half a pint of good veloute 
(No. 152) with half a glassful of white wine, season with one pinch of 
salt, half a pinch of pepper, and a very little cayenne pepper, adding three 
tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan- cheese. Take three-quarters of a 
pound of shelled crabs, put them in the saucepan, and boil them for ten 
minutes; then lift from the fire and let cool. Prepare six squares of 
toasted bread, and with a knife spread some of the mixture smoothly over 
each slice, sprinkle well with grated cheese, and moisten slightly with 
clarified butter; place them on a baking-dish; bake in a very hot oven for 
three minutes, and serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin, garnished 
with parsley-greens. 

373. Crabs a PAnglaise. Pick twelve boiled, hard-shelled crabs in as 
large pieces as possible; mix them in a salad-bowl with half a cupful of 



FISH. 207 

the white of celery or finely shred lettuce leaves, one pinch of salt, half a 
pinch of pepper, one tablespoonful of olive oil, and one and a half table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar. Refill six well-cleaned shells with the salad, and 
on each one lay a good teaspoonful of mayonnaise sauce (No. 206), 
sprinkled over with one hard-boiled, finely chopped egg, the yolk and 
white separated, some crab or lobster coral, and a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley, every article to be used separately, so they have each a different 
color. Serve on a dish with a folded napkin. 

374. Oyster-crabs a la Poulette. Take one and a half pints of oyster- 
crabs, and proceed the same as for oysters a la poulette (No. 383). 

375. Fried Oyster-crabs. Wash well, and dry one and a half pints 
of oyster-crabs, dip them in flour, then in cold milk, and finally in cracker- 
dust; shake them well in a colander, and fry in hot fat for three minutes; 
serve in shells made of foundation paste, or short paste for tarts (No. 
1078), garnishing with parsley-leaves, and sprinkling a very little salt on 
top. 

376. Stuffed Clams. Refill six good-sized, very clean clam-shells with 
clam forcemeat (No. 223), and prepare them the same as stuffed crabs 
(No. 370). 

377. Clams a la Mariniere. Open and remove thirty-six small clams 
from their shells; put them in a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, 
one pinch of chives, and one pinch of finely chopped chervil; add half a 
cupful of water, so they will not be too salty, with half a pinch of pepper, 
and two tablespoonfuls of fresh bread-crumbs. Boil for two minutes, and 
serve with the juice of half a lemon. 

378. Mussels a la Mariniere. Steam in a stewpan thirty-six mussels 
for ten minutes, and proceed as for No. 377, leaving a mussel in each 
half shell. 

379. Mussels a la Poulette. Steam in a stewpan thirty-six mussels 
for ten minutes, and proceed the same as oysters a la poulette (No. 383), 
leaving a mussel in each half shell. 

380. Fried Oysters. Procure twenty-four large freshly opened oys- 
ters, or thirty-six of medium size, dip each one separately in flour, then in 
beaten egg, and lastly in powdered cracker-dust. Fry in very hot fat for 
four minutes, drain well, and serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin, 
sprinkling over a very little salt, and garnishing with fried parsley-leaves. 

381. Oysters a la Villeroi. Blanch twenty-four large oysters in their 
own juice for two minutes, then drain them; take some chicken forcemeat 
(No. 226), spread it over both sides of the oysters, dip in egg and fresh 
bread-crumbs, then fry in hot lard for three minutes, and serve with fried 
parsley. t 

382. Broiled Oysters. Dip twenty-four large and freshly opened 
oysters in half bread-crumbs and half cracker-dust; flatten them with the 
hand, and broil them on a well-greased broiler for two minutes on each 
side, then salt them slightly, and serve on six pieces of toast; lightly glaze 
them with maitre d'hotel sauce on top (No. 177). 

383. Oysters a la Poulette. Put thirty-six freshly opened oysters in 



2O8 THE TABLE. 



a saucepan with a little of their own juice, one ounce of butter, half a pinch 
of salt, and the same of pepper; parboil for three minutes, adding half a 
pint of Hollandaise sauce (No. 160), stew well together for two minutes 
again, but do not let boil, and add one teaspoonful of chopped parsley and 
the juice of half a lemon. Stir slightly, and serve. 

384. Oysters a la Pompadour. Proceed the same as for No. 383, 
suppressing the parsley, and adding two chopped truffles. 

385. Oysters en Brochette au Petit Sale. Place twenty-four freshly 
opened oysters in a stewpan with their own juice; season with a very 
little salt, half a pinch of pepper; parboil for two minutes. Take six 
skewers and pass them through the oysters, separating each one by a 
small square of cooked bacon that is, alternating each oyster with a piece 
of the bacon besprinkle with grated, fresh bread-crumbs, and broil for one 
and a half minutes on each side. Serve with half a gill of maitre d'hotel 
sauce (No. 177) poured over, and a bunch of parsley-leaves spread on 
both sides of the dish. 

386. Oysters a la Mali. Chop an onion very fine; place it in a stew- 
pan with one ounce of butter, and let it get a good golden color, then add 
a tablespoonful of cooked, finely minced spinach, also a small glassful of 
white wine. Have eighteen medium-sized oysters chopped exceedingly 
small, and seasoned with a pinch of salt, and the same of pepper; place 
these in the stewpan, and let cook for fifteen minutes. Put in one whole 
egg, also a bruised clove of garlic; stir; then take six large, clean oyster- 
shells; fill the bottoms with a bed of three parboiled oysters, cover them 
with the spinach mixture, and besprinkle with fresh bread-crumbs. Flat- 
ten the tops with the blade of a knife, pour a very little clarified butter 
over, and put them for three minutes in the oven. Serve on a folded 
napkin, garnishing with parsley-leaves. 

387. Oyster Patties. Take twenty-four medium-sized oysters (the 
least salted oysters are better for this purpose), put them in a stewpan 
with their own liquor, and add half a pinch of pepper. Cover, and let 
cook for two minutes; then take half the liquor out, and add to the 
oysters three-quarters of a pint of bechamel sauce (No. 154), and a very 
little grated nutmeg; simmer for two minutes, but do not let boil. Take 
six hot patties (No. 266), fill them up with four oysters each, pour the 
sauce over, and place the covers on top. Serve on a dish with a folded 
napkin. 

388* Stewed Oysters a la Baltimore. Open neatly thirty-six medium- 
sized, fresh Rockaway oysters; place them in a saucepan without their 
juice, adding one ounce of good butter; cover the pan, put it on the stove, 
and let cook for two minutes, $hen add a small glassful of good Madeira 
wine (about a cocktail glass) and a very little cayenne pepper. Cook 
together for two minutes longer, then add one gill of Espagnole sauce 
(No. 151) and one gill of demi-glace (No. 185). Stir thoroughly until 
boiling, and just before serving squeeze in the juice of a good lemon, 
add half an ounce of good butter, also a teaspoonful of finely chopped 
parsley, and serve immediately in a hot tureen. 



FISH. 



209 



389. Soft Clams a la George Merrill. Have thirty-six fresh and 
rather small soft clams, throw away all the hard part, keeping nothing but 
the body. Place them in a stewpan with two ounces of butter, half a 
pinch of pepper, a finely chopped shallot, and half a glassful of Madeira 
wine. Let cook on the hot stove for seven minutes, then add a gill of 
Espagnole sauce (No. 151), a pinch of chopped parsley, the juice of a 
medium-sized, good lemon, and half an ounce of good butter, shuffling 
the whole well for three minutes longer, without letting it boil, then pour 
the clams into a hot tureen, and serve. 

390. Soft Clams a la Newburg. Procure forty-two very fresh, soft 
clams, so that no sand should adhere to them after they are opened; lay 
them carefully in the palm of the left hand, and with the fingers of the 
right remove the body gently, but nothing else, being very careful not to 
break it, and throw away all that remains. When they are all prepared, 
place them in a stewpan with an ounce of good butter, half a pinch of white 
pepper, a wine-glassful of good Madeira wine, and two finely hashed, 
medium-sized truffles. Put on the cover, and let cook gently for eight 
minutes. Break three egg yolks into a bowl, add a pint of sweet cream; 
beat well for three minutes, then pour it over the clams; turn well the 
handle of the saucepan for two or three minutes, very gently shuffling the 
clams, but it must not boil again or the clams will break, and be very 
careful not to use either a spoon or fork. Pour them into a hot tureen, 
and send to the table at once. 

391. Canape Lorenzo. Cut out from an American bread six slices, 
the width of the bread, one-quarter of an inch in thickness; neatly pare off 
the crust, fry them in a sautoire with half an ounce of butter, so as to have 
them of a light brown color. Boil eighteen hard-shelled crabs in salted 
water for twelve minutes, remove them, and let cool until they can be 
handled with bare hands; then remove the upper shell, and with the aid of 
a pointed knife pick out all the meat; crack both claws, pick the meat out 
also; place the meat on a plate, season with a tablespoonful of salt and a 
saltspoonful of red pepper. Place one ounce of butter in a saucepan with 
half a medium-sized, sound, peeled, and very finely chopped-up onion. 
Cook on a moderate fire for two minutes, being very careful not to let get 
brown. Add two tablespoonfuls of flour, stirring constantly for two min- 
utes; then add one gill of broth, stir well again for five minutes while 
slowly cooking. Add now the crab-meat, and cook for fifteen minutes 
more, lightly stirring with a wooden spoon once in a while. Transfer it 
into a vessel, and let cool for fifteen minutes. Place a tablespoonful of 
good butter in a sautoire on a hot stove, mix in well together one table- 
spoonful of flour, and cook very slowly for three minutes. Add two 
ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and the same quantity of grated Swiss 
cheese; stir all well together. Then place in a vessel and let cool. Place 
a layer of crab forcemeat on each toast a quarter of an inch thick. Divide 
the prepared cheese, etc., into six equal parts, giving them a ball-shaped 
form two inches in diameter Arrange them over the layer of the crab 
forcemeat right in the centre. Place them on a silver dish, and bake in a 

14 



2IO THE TABLE. 



brisk oven for five minutes. Then take out from the oven, and send to 
the table in the same dish. 

392. Scallops Brestoise. Blanch in one ounce of butter for ten min- 
utes, and then drain, one pint of scallops; chop up two onions, and put 
them in a saucepan with an ounce of butter; when brown add one table- 
spoonful of flour, stirring carefully, and moisten with half a pint of the 
scallop liquor; if none, white broth (No. 99) will answer. Let reduce while 
stirring, then season with a good pinch of salt, and half a pinch of white 
pepper, also a very little cayenne pepper; add the chopped scallops, four 
egg yolks, and a bruised clove of garlic, also half a cupful of fresh bread- 
crumbs, and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Stir well for two min- 
utes, then put it in a dish and lay aside to cool. Fill six scallop-shells, or 
St. Jacques-shells with this, besprinkle the tops with fresh bread-crumbs, 
moisten slightly with clarified butter, and lay them on a baking-sheet; 
brown them nicely in the oven for five minutes, and serve on a hot dish 
with a folded napkin garnished with parsley-leaves. 

393. Edible Snails a la Bourgmgnonne. Have some fine Bourgogne 
snails; disgorge them well with a little salt for two or three days, then 
wash them several times in cold water, strain, and place them in a stew- 
pan, covering them with water. Add a bouquet (No. 254), some cloves and 
whole pepper tied in a cloth, and sufficient salt; cook until the snails fall 
from their shells, and then empty them, clipping off their tails; clean the 
shells well. Mix together some good butter, shallots, parsley, and 
chervil, the whole chopped very fine; put it in a bowl with as much fresh 
bread-crumbs, and a small glassful of white wine; season to taste with 
salt and pepper, and knead well. Fill each shell with a little of this mix- 
ture, replace the snails, and finish filling with more of the kneaded butter; 
spread bread-crumbs over, and lay them on a baking-dish, the opened part 
on the top. Brown in the oven for four minutes, and serve on a dish with 
a folded napkin. 

394. Edible Snails a PItalienne. Prepare the snails as for the above, 
leaving them in their shells; drain, and put them in a saucepan with white 
wine and a little strong Espagnole sauce (No. 151), a few chopped, fried 
onions and finely minced mushrooms. Season well with a pinch of salt, 
cook for a few minutes, and serve. 

395. Edible Snails a la Proveneale. Prepare the snails as for No. 
393; fry a little chopped onion with oil, add the snails taken from the 
shells, a little white wine, two cloves of chopped garlic, a little fresh bread- 
crumbs, and chopped parsley. Cook, add the juice of a lemon; then serve. 

396. Terrapin a la Baltimore. Prepare two medium-sized terrapins 
as for No. 60, make half a pint of mirepoix (No. 138), add to it a table- 
spoonful of flour, let cook for fifteen minutes, then moisten with half a 
glassful of Madeira wine, and a cupful of strong broth. Stir well, and 
constantly, then season with half a pinch of salt, and a very little cayenne 
pepper; reduce to half. Cut the terrapin into small pieces, throwing the 
ends of the claws away; put them in a stewpan, straining the sauce over, 
and finish with an ounce ot fresh butter, also the juice of a lemon. 



FISH. 211 

307. Terrapin a la Maryland. Carefully cut up two terrapins as 
described in No. 60; place them in a saucepan with half a wine-glass of 
good Madeira wine, half a pinch of salt, and a very little cayenne pepper, 
also an ounce of good butter. Mix well a cupful of good, sweet cream 
with the yolks of three boiled eggs, and add it to the terrapin, briskly 
shuffling constantly, while thoroughly heating, but without letting it come 
to a boil. Pour into a hot tureen, and serve very hot. 

Terrapin a la Newburg is prepared exactly the same as above (No. 
397), only substituting two raw egg yolks for the three boiled egg yolks, 
and adding two sound, sliced truffles while heating. 

398. Broiled Frogs. Select eighteen good-sized, fine, fresh frogs pare 
off the feet neatly, then lay the frogs on a dish, and pour two tablespoon- 
fuls of sweet oil over, season with a pinch of salt and a pinch of pepper, 
and squeeze in the juice of a fresh lemon. Roll them around several times 
in their seasoning, then place them nicely on the broiler, and broil them 
for four minutes on each side. Take them off, and dress them on a hot 
dish, pouring a gill of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 145) over, and send to 
the table immediately. 

390 Frogs a la Poulette. Procure eighteen pieces of medium-sized, 
fine, fresh frogs; pare off the claws, then place the frogs in a sautoire with 
two ounces of butter, seasoning with a pinch of salt and a pinch of pepper. 
Add half a glassful of white wine, cover, and let cook on a brisk stove for 
five minutes, then add a pint of Hollandaise sauce (No. 160), and two tea- 
spoonfuls of finely chopped parsley, and a little lemon juice ; mix well for 
two minutes, but do not let it boil again ; then serve the frogs on a very 
hot dish. 

400. Fried Frogs. Select eighteen fine, fresh, medium-sized frogs ; 
trim off the claws neatly, and put the frogs in a bowl. Marinade them with 
a tablespoonf ul of vinegar, the same of sweet oil, a pinch of salt and a pinch 
of pepper ; mix well together in the bowl, then immerse them in frying 
batter (No. 1185). Plunge the frogs into very hot fat, one by one, and let 
fry for five minutes ; then drain, and dress them on a hot dish with a 
folded napkin, decorating with a little parsley-greens. Serve with any 
desired sauce. 

401. FrogS a 1'Espagnole. Trim nicely eighteen fine, fresh, medium- 
sized frogs' feet ; lay the frogs in a sautoire on the hot stove with two ounces 
of good butter, season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, and 
add half a glassful of white wine. Let cook for five minutes, then put in 
it half an empty green pepper and two freshly peeled tomatoes, all cut up 
into small pieces ; cook for ten minutes longer, then dress the frogs on a 
hot dish, and send to the table. 

402. Broiled Shad's Roe, with Bacon. Procure six pieces of fresh 
shad's roe, wipe them thoroughly with a towel, then lay them on a dish, 
and season with a good pinch of salt and two tablespoonfuls of sweet oil. 
Roll them gently to avoid breaking, then arrange them on a broiler, and 
broil them for six minutes on each side. Take them off the fire, lay them 
on a hot dish, and pour a gill of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 145) over; 



212 THE TABLE. 



decorate with six slices of broiled bacon (No. 754), and six quarters of 
lemon ; then send to the table. 

403. Broiled Sardines on Toast. Select twelve good-sized, fine, and 
firm sardines ; arrange them in a double broiler, and broil for two minutes 
on each side on a very brisk fire. Place six fresh, dry toasts on a hot dish, 
lay the sardines over, being careful not to break them, pour half a gill of 
maitre d'hotel butter (No. 145) over, decorate with six quarters of lemon, 
and serve. 

A pinch of salt represents 205 grains, or a tablespoonful. 

Half a pinch of pepper represents 38 grains, or a teaspoonful. 

A third of a pinch of nutmeg represents 13 grains, or half a tea- 
spoonful. 



KGQS. 



404. Poached. Boil in a deep saucepan three quarts of water with a 
heavy pinch of salt and three drops of vinegar. Have easily at hand 
twelve fresh eggs. When, and only when, the water boils, rapidly but 
carefully crack six of them, one by one. As success to have them in 
proper shape and cooked to perfection depends upon how they are handled, 
special care should be taken to crack them as rapidly as possible, care- 
fully avoiding to break the yolks, and dropping each one right on the 
spot where the water bubbles, and as near the boiling-point as possible. 
Poach for one minute and a quarter from the time that the water boils 
after the eggs were put in. Lift them up with a skimmer, lay them on 
the freshly prepared toasts, or use for any other desired purpose; and 
repeat the same with the other six. If handled strictly as above de- 
scribed you will have them to perfection, and no necessity of trimming 
any superfluous adherings; serve when required. 

405. Scrambled Eggs. Melt three ounces of butter in a saucepan, 
break into it twelve fresh eggs ; season with a pinch of salt, half a pinch 
of pepper, and a third of a pinch of grated nutmeg. Mix thoroughly 
without stopping for three minutes, using a spatula, and having the pan 
on a very hot stove. Turn into a warm tureen, add a little verjuice or 
lemon juice, and send to the table very hot. 

406. Scrambled Eggs with Asparagus-tops. To be prepared exactly 
the same as for No. 405. After the eggs have been well mixed with 
butter in the pan, there is added a quarter of a bunch of freshly boiled 
asparagus-tops. 

407. Scrambled Eggs with Truffles. Place in a saucepan four good- 
sized, sliced truffles with a glassful of Madeira wine. Reduce to about 
half, which will take two minutes ; add a tablespoonful of butter ; season 
with one pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper. Crack into the saucepan 



EGGS. 2 I 3 



twelve eggs, mix all well together with the spatula for three minutes on a 
very hot stove without stopping. Turn into a hot tureen and serve. 

408. Scrambled Eggs with Smoked Beef. Fry in a sautoire for one 
minute two ounces of finely minced smoked beef. Scramble twelve eggs 
as for No. 405, mixing with the above prepared beef. Any kind of gar- 
nishing may be added to the scrambled eggs. 

409. Scrambled Eggs With Chicory. Blanch for fifteen minutes a 
good-sized head of chicory; drain it and cut it into one-inch lengths. Put 
these in a saucepan on the hot stove with an ounce of butter and one minced 
onion, fry, and then moisten with half a pint of broth (No. 99), adding a 
pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper. Let cook until all the liquid is 
evaporated (which will take from twenty to twenty-two minutes). Break 
twelve eggs into a saucepan, add the chicory and another ounce of butter, 
then scramble with a spatula all together for four minutes, and serve with 
heart-shaped bread croutons (No. 133) around the dish. 

410. Eggs a la Livingstone. Cover six pieces of cut toast with pate- 
de-foie-gras, lay them on a dish, and pour twelve scrambled eggs over 
(No. 405), add two tablespoonfuls of demi-glace around the dish and 
serve (No. 185). 

411. EggS a la Bourguignonne. Place in a saucepan one tablespoon- 
ful of meat-glaze with one pint of broth (No. 99), or consomm6 (No. 100). 
Boil, then crack into it two fresh eggs, and poach for one and a quarter 
minutes. Carefully lift up with a skimmer, and gently lay them on a hot 
silver dish. Repeat the same operation .with ten more, two at a time ; 
when all on the dish, sprinkle over them an ounce of grated Parmesan 
cheese. Place in the hot oven to brown for one minute. Reduce the 
gravy in which they were poached to one-half, then carefully pour the 
sauce around the eggs, but not over them, and serve hot. 

412. Fried EggS. Place in a frying-pan on the hot range three 
tablespoonfuls of very good sweet oil, heat it well, then carefully break 
into it one fresh egg, being careful not to break the yolk, and with the aid 
of a table knife fold the white right over the yolk, cook for a quarter of a 
minute, turn it over with a cake-turner ; cook for a quarter of a minute 
on the other side, lift it up with the cake-turner, dress on a hot dish with 
a folded napkin. Proceed precisely the same way with eleven more, and 
then they will be ready to serve for any purpose desired. 

N. B. Mix one pinch of salt, and half a pinch of white pepper, and as 
soon as the eggs are dressed on the dish season each one evenly with it ; 
taking special care to cook them separately, and no more than a quarter 
of a minute on each side. 

413. Fried Eggs for Garnishing, Pour half a gill of sweet oil into 
the frying-pan ; when the oil is hot break in one egg, carefully closing up 
the white part with a skimmer, so as to have it firm, and in a single form. 
Only one at the time should be cooked, and two minutes will be sufficient. 

414. EggS au Beiirre Noir. Put one ounce of butter in a frying-pan 
on the hot stove, let heat well, but not brown; break gently into a dish 
twelve very fresh eggs, slide them carefully into the pan, then season 



214 THE 



with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of white pepper; let cook slowly for 
three minutes. Have ready a hot, flat dish, slide the eggs gently onto it, 
without turning them over, and be careful to avoid breaking them; lay 
the dish containing the eggs in a warm place. Put two ounces of butter 
in the same pan, place it on the hot stove, and let the butter get a good 
brown color for three minutes, then drop in two teaspoonfuls of vinegar. 
Pour this over the eggs, and send them to the table. 

415. Egg's au Soleil. Put two tablespoonfuls of lard in a frying-pan 
on the hot stove, break in twelve fresh eggs, dropping them in carefully, 
one by one; let them cook for two minutes, then with a skimmer take 
each one up separately and lay it carefully on a dry cloth. Have some 
fritter-batter (No. 1190) ready, cut a piece of half-cooked bacon into small, 
square pieces of about an inch, and add them to the batter, then dip in 
the eggs, one after the other, taking up with each one a piece of the bacon, 
and with the fingers drop them into very hot grease, and cook to a good 
golden color for two minutes. Lift them up with the skimmer, lay them 
on a dry cloth to drain; sprinkle over half a pinch of salt, dress on a hot 
dish with a folded napkin, and serve. 

416. EggS k la Bechamel. Pour one pint of bechamel (No. 154) into 
a saucepan, and put it on the hot stove. Cut twelve hard-boiled eggs 
in halves, add them to the hot bechamel ; season with half a pinch of 
white pepper, and let heat thoroughly for three minutes, but be careful 
not to let it boil. Add one ounce of butter and a saltspoonful of grated 
nutmeg, then pour it on a hot serving-dish, and serve with six heart-shaped 
croutons (No. 133). 

417. Eggs a la Pauvre Femme. Heat half an ounce of butter in a 
dish on the hot stove, then break into it twelve fresh eggs, and sprinkle 
over two ounces of fresh bread-crumbs. Set the dish in the hot oven, 
and let bake for two minutes ; then pour over the eggs half a pint of 
well-reduced Espagnole sauce (No. 151), add three ounces of cooked, 
tender ham, or cooked kidneys cut up finely, and then send to the 
table. 

418. EggS an Crratin. Knead well together in a bowl, one table- 
spoonful of bread-crumbs two ounces of butter, three chopped anchovies, 
a pinch of parsley, a pinch of chervil, one chopped shallot, three raw egg 
yolks, a good pinch of salt, half a pinch of white pepper, and a pinch of 
grated nutmeg. When ready, put these ingredients into a silver baking- 
dish (by preference) with one .ounce of butter at the bottom. Place it on 
a slow fire for two minutes, then break over it six eggs, which will be 
plenty; cook for five minutes in the hot oven, remove, lay the dish on 
top of another, and serve immediately. 

419. Eggs a la Tripe. Fry two medium-sized, sound, sliced onions in 
a frying-pan with two ounces of butter, but do not brown them; mix in 
half a spoonful of flour, and a large cupful of sweet crearn; season with a 
pinch of salt, half a pinch of white pepper, and the third of a pinch of 
grated nutmeg. Cook for eight minutes, stirring constantly with the 
spatula; then add twelve sliced, hard-boiled eggs, and heat together 



EGGS. 2 1 



thoroughly for two minutes without letting it boil again ; pour on a hot 
dish and serve. 

420. EggS a la Tanderbilt. Place one ounce of good butter on a 
silver dish, set it on the hot stove, and break in twelve fresh eggs, being 
careful not to disturb the yolks; season with a light pinch of salt and the 
third of a pinch of pepper; then let cook slowly for four minutes. Pour 
over the eggs a pint of hot Vanderbilt garnishing as for the omelet (No. 
471), and serve immediately. 

421. EggS a la Valencienne. Put into a saucepan half a pint of hot, 
boiled rice, half a pint of hot tomato sauce (No. 205), two good-sized 
mushrooms, cut julienne-shaped, one truffle cut the same, and two table- 
spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese; season with half a pinch of salt, 
half a pinch of pepper, and the third of a pinch of grated nutmeg, and let 
cook on the hot stove for five minutes, stirring it lightly with the spat- 
ula. Leave the pan on the corner of the stove to keep warm, while put- 
ting half an ounce of good butter on a silver dish, and when placed on the 
hot stove, crack in twelve fresh eggs, being careful not to break the yolks; 
season with half a pinch of salt and the third of a pinch of pepper, then 
let cook for two minutes. Dress the prepared garnishing in four dome- 
shaped heaps one at each end of the dish, and one at each side and send 
to the table at once. 

422. EggS a la Provencale. Pour two tablespoonfuls of oil into a 
small frying-pan, and set it on the fire. When well heated, break one 
egg into a bowl, season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper 
(divided up for the twelve eggs), then drop it into the oil; baste the egg 
with a spoon, turn it over, and when a good color on both sides, drain it 
on a wire sieve. Cook the twelve eggs separately (each one will take two 
minutes), then pare them nicely, and serve crown-shaped on a dish, put- 
ting a piece of fried bread between every other one. Pour over half a 
pint of reduced Espagnole (No. 151), to which has been added the zest of 
a lemon, and six sliced mushrooms, and serve very hot. 

423* EggS en Filets, Mix in a dish that can be put in the oven (a 
silver one by preference) twelve raw egg yolks, with a spoonful of 
brandy and a pinch of salt. Cook them for five minutes in a hot oven, 
then let them cool; cut the preparation into twelve thin fillets or slices, 
and steep each one in alight pancake batter (No. 1186). Fry them in very 
hot fat for about two minutes, then lift up with a skimmer, lay them on 
a napkin to drain, and serve on a folded napkin laid on a hot dish and 
garnished with fried parsley. 

424. EggS a la Finoise. Pour a pint of good tomato sauce (No. 205) 
into a saucepan on the hot stove, add two cut-up, peeled, sweet peppers, 
fry for two minutes in a tablespoonful of butter, a teaspoonful of chopped 
chives, and reduce it gradually to about half the quantity, which will 
take ten minutes. Poach six very fresh eggs, as for No. 4 4O4, pare their 
edges neatly. Place six freshly prepared hot toasts on a warm serving- 
dish, arrange the eggs carefully on top, and pour the above sauce over 
all, then send them to the table at once. 



2l6 THE TABLE. 



425. EggS au Miroir. Lightly butter a silver dish large enough to 
hold twelve eggs, one beside another ; carefully break into it twelve 
eggs, taking care to keep the yolks intact. Evenly sprinkle over them 
half a pinch of salt. Cook for one minute on the hot stove; then place 
them in the oven for one and a half minutes. Take out, and place the dish 
on another, and serve. 

426. EggS With Fresh Mushrooms. Peel, wash, and drain a quar- 
ter of a pound of fine, fresh mushrooms. Place them in a saucepan, with 
a tablespoonful of very good butter. Season with half a pinch of salt and 
a third of a pinch of white pepper, squeezing in first two drops of lemon 
juice. Cover the saucepan, and cook for ten minutes on a moderate fire. 
Add a quarter of a glassful of good Madeira wine ; reduce to one-half, which 
will take two minutes; add now a gill of bechamel sauce (No. 154), and 
let come to a boil again. Prepare twelve fresh-poached eggs, as in No. 
404; pour the sauce on a hot serving-dish, keeping the mushrooms in the 
saucepan. Neatly lay the eggs over the sauce around the dish, and dress 
the mushrooms right in the centre, and serve very hot. 

427. EggS with Celery. Boil for fifteen minutes, in a quart of white 
broth (No. 99), two heads of well-washed and neatly pared, sound celery. 
Remove it from the broth; then cut it up in one-inch-length pieces, and 
return it to the pan with the broth in which it was first boiled, leaving it 
on the hot stove. Season with one pinch of salt and the third of a pinch 
of white pepper. Reduce to three-quarters (which will require ten min- 
utes). Add a gill of hot bechamel sauce (No. 154), let come to a boil. 
Poach twelve fresh eggs exactly as in No. 404, neatly arrange them on a hot 
dish, crown-like. Pour the celery sauce right in the centre, and serve 
very hot. 

428. EggS with Truffles. Peel three medium-sized, sound truffles. 
Cut them into thin slices, place in a saucepan with a glassful of Madeira 
wine; reduce to one-half on a moderate fire. Season with one pinch of 
salt and the third of a pinch of white pepper; add one gill of bechamel 
sauce (No. 154); let come to a boil. Prepare twelve heart-shaped crou- 
tons (No. 133); dip the thin parts first into the sauce half an inch in 
de.pth, then into fresh, finely chopped-up parsley up to the same depth. 
Gently dress (arrange) them on the hot serving-dish in star-shape, so that 
the decorated ends of the croutons will just reach up to the edge of the 
dish equally all around. Prepare twelve poached eggs exactly the same 
as in No. 404; dress an egg on each crouton. Gently pour the above pre- 
pared sauce right in the centre of the dish, being careful not to pour any 
over the eggs. Evenly slice one good-sized, sound truffle into twelve equal 
slices; dip them in a little hot broth for two seconds; lay one slice on 
top of each egg, and immediately send to the table. 

429. EggS With Tarragon. Blanch for one minute in a sautoire a 
quarter of a bunch of tarragon-leaves, drain, and chop them up very fine. 
Break twelve eggs into a bowl, add the tarragon, season with a pinch of 
salt and half a pinch of pepper, and beat well for four minutes; mean- 
while adding half a cupful of sweet cream. Then make an omelet, as for 



GGS. 1 1 7 

No. 450, and roll it on a hot serving dish. Prepare a little roux with 
flour and butter (No. 135), moisten with half a pint of strong broth and a 
glassful of white wine; skim off any fat that may accumulate on'top, and 
let it cook slowly for ten minutes. Strain through a fine sieve and pour 
it around the omelet; then serve. 

430. EggS with Livers. Remove the gall carefully from about a 
pint of chicken livers, wash them well, drain, and slice them into small 
pieces. Place them in a sautoire with one ounce of butter, range the pan 
on the hot stove, then season with one pinch of salt and half a pinch of 
pepper; toss the contents gently for two minutes; then add a pinch of 
chopped parsley, one pinch of chervil, and three well-minced mushrooms, 
and moisten with half a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 185), and let cook for 
five minutes; make an omelet of twelve eggs, as for No. 450, and when ready 
to finish, pour the livers in the centre, reserving two tablespoonfuls of it 
for further action; close the sides up carefully, cook two seconds longer* 
then gently turn it on a hot dish, and, with a spoon, pour all the sauce 
around the omelet. Dress the livers that were reserved, at both ends of 
the omelet, equally divided, and serve. 

431. Eggs EH Parmesan. Beat twelve eggs in a saucepan, with two 
tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, a pinch of pepper, but no salt; 
stir them well with a whip, and make of this six small omelets, as for No. 
450. As soon as they are sufficiently firm, lay them on a dish. Besprinkle 
the tops with a little grated Parmesan cheese, roll, and trim them nicely, 
sprinkle more cheese over the tops, wipe off the sides of the dish,and put them 
in a hot oven for five minutes. Remove from the oven, pour around the 
omelets one gill of hot Madeira sauce (No. 185); and serve very hot. 

432. EggS a la Bonne Femme. Slice two large, sound onions, and fry 
them in two ounces of butter, in a saucepan, stirring frequently, so that 
they do not burn; when done, dredge in a good pinch of flour, moistening 
with half a pint of cream or milk, and season with a pinch of salt, half a 
pinch of pepper, and a saltspoonful of nutmeg. Break six eggs, froth 
the whites, mix the yolks with the onions, and afterward the beaten 
whites, stirring well. Lay two pieces of white paper on the bottom of a 
baking-tin, butter them thoroughly, lay the eggs on top, and set it in the 
oven for about fifteen minutes. When done, turn them on to a hot dish, 
remove the papers, add two tablespoonfuls of Espagnole sauce (No. 151) 
to the eggs, and serve. 

433. Eggs h la Paysanne. Put half a pint of cream into a dish, on 
the fire, and when it boils, break in twelve fresh eggs, season with a pinch 
of salt and twelve whole peppers; let cook for two minutes, and then set 
it in the oven for three minutes, so that the eggs get a good golden color, 
taking care that they do not harden. Remove from the oven, place the 
dish on another, and serve. 

434. Eggs a la Regence. Shred an ounce and a half of salt pork into 
fine pieces (ham will answer the same purpose), also one onion cut into 
small squares, and six medium-sized mushrooms, all of equal size; moisten 
with a spoonful of good gravy, and cook for five minutes. When done, 



2l8 TtfE TABLE. 



reduce with a tablespoonful of mushroom essence (liquor). Break twelve 
fresh eggs in a dish, with an ounce of melted butter on the bottom, and 
set it in a moderate oven for five minutes; pour the garnishing over, drip 
off the fat, wipe the sides of the dish, and add six drops of strong tarra- 
gon-vinegar. Remove from the oven, place the dish on another, and serve. 

435. Eggs with Melted Cheese. Grate two ounces of Parmesan 
cheese on a dish; set it on a slow fire, adding half a glassful of white wine, 
a pinch of chopped parsley, a pinch of chopped chives, half a pinch of pep- 
per, and a saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, also two ounces of good butter. 
Stir thoroughly while cooking, and as the cheese melts, break in twelve 
eggs; cook for five minutes longer, then surround the dish with heart- 
shaped croutons (No. 133), set it on another dish, and serve very hot. 

436. Eggs en Panade. Cut out twelve round pieces of bread-crumbs, 
each one measuring two inches in diameter, and place them in a pie-plate, 
spreading a little butter over each; brown them in the hot oven for one 
minute. Break twelve eggs in a bowl, add one pinch of chopped parsley, 
half a pinch of chives, two tablespoonfuls of thick, sweet cream, one ounce 
of butter, a pinch of salt, and a very little white pepper. Beat sharply all 
together for four minutes. Add the twelve pieces of browned bread to 
the beaten eggs, mix them well together. Place in a frying-pan on the 
hot range one ounce of clarified butter, heat thoroughly, then fry one 
egged bread at a time for one and a half minutes on each side. Dress, 
with the aid of a cake-turner on a hot dish with a folded napkin; keep in a 
warm place. Repeat the same process with the others, and serve. 

437. Eggs a la Meyerbeer. Butter a silver dish and break into it twelve 
fresh eggs; or, if desired, use six small silver dishes, breaking two eggs 
into each one; then cook them on the stove for two minutes. Cut six 
mutton kidneys in halves, broil or stew them according to taste, then add 
them to the eggs, and serve with half a pint of hot Perigueux sauce (No. 

'191) thrown over. 

438. Eggs a la Reine. Prepare twelve eggs as for the above (No. 
437), cook them for two minutes. Make a garnishing of one ounce of 
cooked chicken-breast, one finely shred, medium-sized truffle, and six 
minced mushrooms. Moisten with half a pint of good Allemande sauce 
(No. 210), heat it up well, but do not let it boil; then pour over the eggs 
and serve immediately. 

439. Eggs' a la Turqne. Cook twelve eggs the same as for No. 
437, and pour over them six chicken livers, tossed gently but rapidly in 
a saucepan on a brisk fire with one ounce of butter for three minutes, 
and then with a spoon remove all the butter from the saucepan. Season 
with a pinch of salt, and half a pinch of white pepper, adding half a glass- 
ful of good Madeira wine. Reduce it to one half, then add one gill of hot 
Madeira sauce (No. 185), heat up a little, and then pour the sauce over 
the eggs and serve. 

440. Eggs a PImperatrice. Cook twelve eggs exactly as in No. 
437, arranging six small slices of pate-de-foie-gras, one on top of each 
egg, and serving very hot. 



EGGS. 219 



441. Eggs a la Suisse. Fry twelve eggs as for No. 437; after cook- 
ing for two minutes, cover with half a pint of hot tomato sauce (No. 205), 
and add three cooked sausages, cut in two, also a little grated cheese, 
then send to the table. 

442. EggS a la CMpolata. Prepare twelve eggs as for No. 437, 
and cover them with a pint of hot Chipolata garnishing (No. 232), and 
serve very hot. 

443. Eggs a FAlsacienne. Fry twelve eggs as for No. 437, only 
putting them on a long dish. Add one chopped onion to four ounces 
of finely minced calf's liver, quickly toss them on a brisk fire for about 
eight minutes, then pour in about six to eight drops of vinegar, a pinch 
of salt, and a little pepper to season. Garnish both ends of the dish with 
this, then serve. 

444. EggS a 1'Aurore. Boil twelve eggs until hard, then let them 
cool; shell them, and separate the yolks from the whites, putting the 
former into a mortar, adding one ounce of fresh butter, a pinch of salt, 
half a pinch of nutmeg, the same of ground spice, and three raw egg yolks; 
pound all well together. Mince the whites, and put them in a sautoire 
with a pint of well reduced bechamel (No. 154), cook without boiling, 
although letting them attain a good consistency ; place them on the dish 
used for serving, lay the pounded yolks on top, and garnish with twelve 
square sippets of bread dipped in beaten egg, and put in the oven to brown 
for about four minutes; then serve. 

445. EggS a la Polonaise. Cut twelve hard-boiled eggs in halves, 
separate the whites from the yolks, and pound the latter in a mortar, add- 
ing about one ounce of butter, a pinch of salt, half a pinch of ground spice, 
a saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, and five raw yolks; when well blended, 
without any lumps, strew half a tablespoonful of very finely chopped parsley 
over, and add the whites of the five eggs well beaten. Garnish the bottom 
of a baking-dish with this preparation, laying it in about a finger thick; 
also fill the whites with a part of it, making them have the appearance of 
whole eggs. Arrange them tastefully on top, and set the dish in the oven; 
brown slightly for about five minutes, remove it from the oven, lay the 
dish on top of another, wipe the sides carefully, and serve immediately. 

446. EggS a la Sauce Robert. Peel two medium-sized onions, and 
remove the hearts, cut them in slices (the hearts), and put them with a 
tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan on a brisk fire, and brown them 
well. Moisten with a cupful of lean broth, season with a pinch of salt 
and half a pinch of pepper, cook, and let the sauce reduce for about ten 
minutes. When ready to serve, cut eight hard-boiled eggs into slices, 
mix them in the preparation, and let heat together without boiling for two 
minutes; finish with a teaspoonful of diluted mustard, and then serve. 

447. EggS a la Bennett. Cut twelve hard-boiled eggs lengthwise, 
remove the yolks, and place them in a bowl with two ounces of good but- 
ter, a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, and a pinch of chopped chives. 
Beat well together, and fill the whites with it, besprinkle with bread- 
crumbs, and pour over a few drops of clarified butter; put them in the 



22O THE TABLE. 



oven for three minutes on a buttered dish, and serve with half a pint of 
hot Madeira sauce (No. 185) thrown over. 

448. EggS a la Hyde. Boil six fresh eggs for seven minutes, then 
lay them in coM water for five minutes to cool them off; shell them, and 
put them on a plate. Hash fine half a small canful of mushrooms with 
two branches of parsley and one medium-sized, sound shallot. Put in a 
saucepan on the hot stove one ounce of good butter, and when melted 
add the prepared mushrooms, and let cook rather slowly for fifteen min- 
utes, stirring it occasionally. Add half a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 185), 
season with a pinch of salt and a light pinch of pepper, then cook again 
slowly for ten minutes. Strain the whole through a fine sieve into another 
saucepan, and set it aside to keep warm; cut the six hard-boiled eggs into 
halves, remove the entire yolks, and mash them Thoroughly in a bowl, 
adding half an ounce of good, fresh butter and half a pint of sweet cream. 
Season with a light pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and half a tea- 
spoonful of grated nutmeg; mix well together, and with this fill the twelve 
pieces of egg-white. Lay them on a lightly buttered dish, pour the sauce 
over, and put them in the oven for eight minutes before sending to the 
table. 

449. EggS a la Ducheese. Place a quarter of a pound of powdered 
sugar in a saucepan, adding half a pint of water, a small piece of lemon 
peel, and a short stick of cinnamon. Boil until the sugar is reduced to a 
syrup, then remove the lemon peel and cinnamon, and add half a teaspoon- 
ful of orange-flower water. Beat together, then strain twelve egg yolks 
with a pint of milk or cream, add this to the syrup with a very little salt, 
then transfer the whole to a silver baking-dish, place it on the hot stove, 
and let cook for ten minutes, stirring briskly, and when it forms a cream, 
squeeze in the juice of a fine, sound lemon; remove from the fire, lay the 
dish on another, and send to the table. 

450. Plain Omelet. Crack into a bowl twelve fresh eggs, season them 
with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of white pepper, beat them well until 
the whites and yolks are thoroughly mixed, or for fully four minutes. 
Place in a No. 8 frying-pan two tablespoonfuls of clarified butter; 
heat it well on the hot range, and when it crackles pour in the eggs) and 
with a fork stir all well for two minutes, then let rest for half a minute. 
Fold up with the fork the side nearest the handle first to the centre 
of the omelet, then the opposite side, so that both sides will meet right 
in the centre; let rest for half a minute longer; have a hot dish in the left 
hand, take hold of the handle of the pan with the right, bring both dish 
and pan to a triangular shape, and with a rapid movement turn the pan 
right over the centre of the dish, and send to the table. (The omelet 
should be made on a very brisk range, without taking the lid off the stove.) 

Should the pan be smaller than the above-mentioned No. 8 it will 
require three minutes' stirring, one minute to rest, and half a minute to 
rest after having been folded. 

When making an omelet for one person, for instance, use three fresh 
eggs, seasoned with half a teaspoonful of salt, and half a saltspoonful of 



EGGS. 221 

white pepper. Thoroughly heat in a small frying-pan half a teaspoonful 
of clarified butter; after sharply beating the eggs in the bowl, pour into 
the pan, and gently mix for one minute on a very brisk range, let rest for 
a quarter of a minute, fold one side up, rest a quarter of a minute more, 
then turn on a small hot dish, and serve. 

451. Omelet with Fine Herbs. Break twelve fresh eggs into a bowl, 
add a pinch of finely chopped parsley, half a pinch of chopped tarragon, 
and half a pinch of chives; also, if desired, half a cupful of sweet cream. 
Beat the whole thoroughly without stopping for four minutes; melt one 
ounce of good butter in a frying-pan on the hot stove; when it is melted, 
and begins to crackle, pour in the eggs, and mix them gently with a fork, 
while they cook for three minutes; let them rest for one minute, then 
bring the sides towards the centre, turn it on a hot dish, and serve. 

452. Oyster Omelet. Blanch eighteen oysters to boiling-point in their 
own water; drain, and return them to the saucepan, moistening with half 
a pint of good Allemande (No. 210); season with half a pinch of salt. 
Make a plain omelet with twelve eggs as for No. 450, bring the sides 
toward the centre, and fill it with the oyster preparation. Turn it on a 
hot dish, pour the rest of the sauce around, and serve very hot. 

453. Crawfish Omelet. Stew twelve crawfish tails in a sautoire on the 
hot stove with half an ounce of butter, letting them cook for five minutes. 
Break twelve eggs into a bowl, add half a cupful of sweet cream, and a 
pinch of finely chopped parsley ; season with a pinch of salt and half a 
pinch of pepper, then sharply beat for four minutes. Make an omelet 
as in No. 450, fold up the side opposite the handle of the pan, place the 
crawfish right in the centre, fold up the other side, turn it on a hot dish, 
and serve. 

454. Lobster Omelet. Take six ounces of boiled lobster meat, and 
cut it into small pieces ; put them into a sautoire with half a glassful of 
white wine and a quarter of an ounce of butter. Moisten with a quarter 
of a pint of strong, hot bechamel (No. 154), and let cook for five minutes. 
Make an omelet with twelve eggs as for No. 450, and with a skimmer 
place the stewed lobster in the middle, fold the opposite side, pour in the 
garnishing, fold the other side up, turn it on a hot dish, pour the sauce 
around it, and serve. 

455. Crab Omelet. Proceed exactly the same as for the above (No. 
454), substituting six ounces of crab meat cut into small pieces for the 
lobster. 

456. Tomato Omelet. Break twelve fresh eggs in a bowl, season 
them with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, and beat thoroughly 
for four minutes. Place two ounces of butter in a frying-pan on the hot 
stove, let it heat well without browning, then pour into it half a pint of 
freshly cooked stewed tomatoes, suppressing all the liquid. Cook for two 
minutes, then throw the beaten eggs over, and with a fork mix the whole 
gently for three minutes; let rest for one minute longer. Bring up the 
two opposite sides, turn it carefully on a hot dish, and serve. 

457. Tomato Omelet a la Proven^ale. Peel a medium-sized, sound 



222 THE TABLE. 



onion, then chop it fine ; place it in a sautoire on the hot stove with 
one ounce of butter, and let get a good golden color, adding half a pint 
of stewed tomatoes (No. 1027), or two good-sized, peeled, raw toma- 
toes cut into small slices, a crushed clove of garlic, and season (should 
the tomatoes be fresh) with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, 
adding a teaspoonful of chopped parsley; let the whole cook together for 
ten minutes; then proceed as for the tomato omelet (No. 456). 

458. Asparagus-top Omelet. Put a quarter of a bunch of boiled 
asparagus-tops into a bowl, pour twelve beaten eggs over, season with a 
pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, mix lightly again, and make an 
omelet exactly as for No. 450. 

459. Omelet, With Green Peas. Break twelve eggs into a bowl, add- 
ing half a pint of boiled green peas, a pinch each of salt and pepper, beat 
well for four minutes, and make into an omelet as for No. 450. 

460. Omelet au Cepes. Fry six cepes, cut into small pieces, in half 
an ounce of butter for two minutes. Beat twelve eggs in a bowl, season 
with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, pour them over the cepes, 
and make an omelet as for No. 450. 

461. Smoked Beef Omelet. Fry two ounces of finely mixed, smoked 
beef in a frying-pan, with half an ounce of butter, add twelve well-beaten 
eggs, and make an omelet as for No. 450. 

462. Ham Omelet. Cut about two ounces of lean ham into small, 
square pieces, fry them for two minutes with an ounce of butter in a fry- 
ing-pan, and throw over twelve well beaten eggs; with this make an ome- 
let as for No. 450. 

463. Kidney Omelet. Stew on the hot stove three minced kidneys, 
with a quarter of a pint of Madeira wine sauce (No. 185), let cook for 
three minutes. Make a plain omelet with twelve eggs as for No. 450, 
fold the opposite side up, put the kidneys in the centre, fold the other 
side up, and turn on a dish, and pour the sauce around ; then serve. 

464. Cliicken Liver Omelet. The same as for the above (No. 463), 
substituting six minced chicken livers for the kidneys. 

465. Sausage Omelet. Skin three raw sausages, then put them in a 
saucepan with a quarter of an ounce of butter ; set it on the hot fire for 
five minutes, and stir well until they cook. Make a plain omelet with 
twelve eggs, as for No. 450, fold the opposite side, lay the sausages in 
the centre, fold the other side up, and serve with a quarter of a pint of 
hot Madeira sauce (No. 185), poured around the omelet. 

466. Omelet Bonne Femme. Cut one ounce of salt pork into small 
square pieces, also two tablespoonfuls of crust from off a fresh loaf of 
bread cut the same way ; fry them together in a frying-pan with an ounce 
of butter for about two minutes, adding a boiled potato cut into small 
squares, a pinch of chopped parsley, half a pinch of chopped chives, half 
a pinch of salt, and the same quantity of pepper. Beat twelve eggs for 
four minutes in a bowl, pour them into the pan, and make an omelet as 
for No. 450 ; turn on a hot dish, and serve. 

467. Omelet Raspail. Chop one raw onion very fine, and put it in 



EGGS. 



22 3 



a saucepan with an ounce of butter. Take one ounce of small squares of 
salt pork, cook them slightly, adding an ounce of scraps of very finely 
minced, cooked roast beef, the same of ham, two finely chopped mush- 
rooms, and a pinch of chopped parsley. Stir in well a tablespoonful of 
tomato sauce (No. 205) and a tablespoonful of grated bread-crumbs; season 
with a pinch of pepper and the third of a pinch of salt. Make a plain 
omelet with twelve eggs as for No. 450, fold up the opposite side, fill it 
with the preparation, fold the other side up, turn it on a hot dish, and 
serve. 

468. Sardine Omelet, Thoroughly skin eight fine sardines, place six 
of them in a frying-pan with an ounce of butter, cook for two minutes. 
Beat well twelve eggs in a bowl. Season with one pinch of salt and 
half a pinch of pepper, add them to the sardines in the pan; make an ome- 
let as in No. 450, fold the opposite end up, place the two remaining sar- 
dines right in the centre, fold the other end up, turn it on a hot dish, and 
send to the table. 

469. Cheese Omelet. -Put one ounce of butter in a frying-pan, heat 
it on the hot stove. Break twelve eggs into a bowl, beat them thoroughly 
for four minutes, adding two tablespoonfuls of grated Swiss cheese, half a 
pinch of salt, and half a pinch of pepper. Pour the whole into the frying- 
pan, and make an omelet as for No. 450; turn it on a hot dish, and 
besprinkle the top lightly with a very little Parmesan cheese; place in the 
oven for two seconds, then serve. 

470. Omelet Regence. Make an omelet with twelve eggs as for 
No. 450, and when nearly cooked, fold up the opposite side, then fill the 
centre with a quarter of a pint of hot Regence garnishing (No. 434), fold 
the other side up ; turn on a hot dish, pour the sauce around, and 
serve hot. 

471. Omelet a la Vanderbilt. Take two fine, sound, green peppers, 
plunge them into hot fat for half a minute, then take them up and lay 
them on a dry cloth; skin them neatly, remove all the seeds from the 
insides, and when emptied cut them into small slices. Put these into a 
saucepan on the hot stove with two medium-sized fresh, sound, sliced 
tomatoes, twelve nicely shelled shrimps, and three tablespoonfuls of 
Madeira wine sauce (No. 185), then season with half a pinch of salt and a 
third of a pinch of pepper; cook slowly for fifteen minutes. Break twelve 
fresh eggs into a bowl, season them with half a pinch of salt and a third 
of a pinch of pepper, and beat well for five minutes. Put two ounces of 
good butter in a frying-pan, place it on the hot stove, and when the butter 
is melted drop in the eggs, and with a spoon or fork mix briskly for 
two minutes. Fold the opposite side up with a skimmer, lift up the thick 
part of the prepared sauce, and place it in the centre of the omelet, 
fold the other side either with a knife or fork, and let it cook for two 
minutes longer, then turn on a hot dish; pour the rest of the sauce in 
the saucepan around the omelet, and send to the table very hot. 

472. Omelet a PEspagnole. Put in a stewpan on the stove one 
finely shred onion, one ounce of butter, a chopped green pepper, six 

\ 



224 THE TABLE. 



minced mushrooms, and one large, finely cut-up tomato; season with 
half a pinch of pepper and one pinch of salt, adding a spoonful of tomato 
sauce (No. 205); let cook for fifteen minutes. Make a plain omelet with 
twelve eggs, as for No. 450, fold the opposite side, and put more than half 
of the stew inside of it, say three-quarters; fold the other side up, and 
turn it on a long dish, then pour the rest of the sauce around, and serve. 

473. Omelet Mexicaine. Have a pint of veloute sauce (No. 152) in a 
saucepan, place it on a moderate fire, add a piece of lobster butter (No. 
149) about the size of an egg, twenty-four shelled and cooked shrimps, 
and season with half a pinch of salt and a very little pepper. Let cook 
for three minutes, stirring it lightly, then add half of a good-sized, empty 
and peeled green pepper, finely hashed; cook for two minutes longer, then 
let rest on the corner of the stove. Make an omelet with twelve eggs, as 
for No. 450, fold up the opposite side, pour half of the preparation in the 
centre, fold the other end up, turn the omelet on a hot dish, and garnish 
both sides with the rest of the shrimps, pouring the balance around the 
dish; then send to the table. 

474. Omelet Soufflee, for Six Persons. Have a deep, cold, silver 
dish ready, fifteen inches long by eleven wide. Put into a vessel four 
ounces of powdered sugar. Break twelve fresh eggs, drop the whites 
into a copper basin, and the yolks of five into the vessel containing the 
sugar, reserving the other seven yolks for other purposes. Add to the 
vessel containing the sugar and yolks a light teaspoonful of vanilla 
essence: now with the wooden spatula, begin to beat the yolks with the 
sugar as briskly as you possibly can for fifteen minutes. Lay it aside. 
Then with the aid of a pastry wire-whip, beat up to a very stiff froth the 
twelve egg whites in the copper basin, which will take from twelve to 
fifteen minutes. Remove the pastry wire-whip; take a skimmer in the 
right hand, and with the left take hold of the vessel containing the 
preparation of the yolks and sugar. Gradually pour it over the 
whites, and with the skimmer gently mix the whole together for two 
minutes. The preparation will now be of a light, firm consistency. Now, 
with the aid again of the skimmer, take up the preparation and drop it 
down in the centre of the cold dish, ready as above mentioned, taking 
special care to pile it as high as possible, so as to have it of a perfect 
dome-shape; a few incisions can be made all around, according to taste; 
immediately place it in a moderate oven to bake for fifteen minutes. 
Take it out of the oven, and, in order to avoid burning or soiling 
the table-cloth, lay the dish containing the omelet on another cold one, 
liberally sprinkle powdered sugar over it, and immediately send to the 
table. 

N. B. Special care should be taken when piling the preparation into 
the cold, silver dish; and the making of the incisions should be done as 
rapidly as possible, so that success will be certain. When desired, the 
vanilla essence can be substituted with the same quantity of orange- 
flower water. 

475. Sweet Omelet. Beat and sweeten with one ounce of sugar 



BEEF. 225 



twelve eggs; make an omelet as for No. 450, using one ounce of fresh 
butter; turn it on a dish, and dredge another ounce of sugar over, then 
glaze it with a hot shovel or salamander, and serve very warm. 

476. Omelet ail Kirscllj or Rum. Make a sweet omelet with twelve 
eggs as for the above (No. 475); when completed and glazed, throw around 
it a glassful of kirsch, and set the omelet on fire; serve it while burning. 
Rum omelet is prepared exactly the same way, substituting rum for 
kirsch. 

477. Omelet Celestine. Pulverize six macaroons, put them in a 
bowl, adding three tablespoonfuls of apple jelly (No. 1327) and one spoon- 
ful of whipped cream (No. 1254); mix well with the spatula. Make a 
sweet omelet as for No. 475, with twelve eggs; fold the opposite side up, 
pour the mixture into the centre, fold the other end up, turn it on a hot 
dish, and sprinkle the top with three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar; 
glaze the omelet with a hot shovel or salamander, and decorate it with 
three lady-fingers (No. 1231) cut in two, also a cupful of whipped cream 
(No. 1254), the latter poured into a paper-funnel, and piped over in any 
design the fancy may dictate. 

A pinch of salt represents 205 grains, or a tablespoonful. 

Half a pinch of pepper represents 38 grains, or a teaspoonful. 

A third of a pinch of nutmeg represents 13 grains, or half a teaspoonful. 



BKKK. 



478. Braised Beef k la Morlaisienne. Procure a rump-piece of beef 
weighing three pounds, lard it with four large pieces of salt pork, season- 
ed with a pinch of chopped parsley and a crushed garlic. Lay the beef 
in a saucepan, with pieces of salt pork or fat at the bottom, add one sliced 
onion, the round slices of one carrot, one sprig of thyme, and a bay-leaf ; 
season with a pinch of 'salt and half a pinch of pepper, then cover, and 
brown it well on both sides for ten minutes. Moisten with half a pint of 
white broth (No. 99) and half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), then 
cook for one hour. When finished, lay it on a dish, garnishing with six 
stuffed cabbages (No. 919). Skim off the fat, strain the gravy, and pour 
the sauce over, or else serve it in a separate sauce-bowl. 

479. Braised Beef a la Mode. Lard and prepare a piece of beef 
weighing three pounds as for the above (No. 478). Let it marinate for 
twelve hours in the juice of half a lemon, with one good pinch of salt, the 
same quantity of pepper, one sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, and half a 
bunch of parsley-roots. Put the meat in a saucepan with half an ounce 
of butter, and let both sides brown well for ten minutes; take it out and 
lay it on a dish, then add to the gravy about two tablespoonfuls of flour, 
stirring it well, and moisten with one quart of broth (No. 99), mingling 

15 



226 THE TABLE. 



it carefully while the sauce is boiling. Replace the beef in the sauce- 
pan with two sliced carrots and twelve small glazed onions (No. 972), 
and cook for one hour, adding a strong bouquet (No. 254), a glassful of 
claret wine, if desired, and a little crushed garlic, also half a pinch of 
salt, and the third of a pinch of pepper. Serve on a hot dish, skim the 
fat off the gravy, straining it over. Arrange the carrots and onions 
in clusters around the dish, and serve. 

All braised beef to be prepared exactly the same, only adding different 
garnishings. 

480. Braised Beef a la Proyidence. Braise a piece of beef of three 
pounds, as for No. 479, adding a quarter of a cooked cauliflower, half a 
cupful of flageolet-beans, and a cupful of cooked carrots cut with a 
vegetable-scoop five minutes before serving. Place the vegetables with 
the skimmed gravy in a pan, reduce for five minutes. Dress the beef on a 
hot dish, arrange the vegetables in four heaps, one at each end of the dish 
and one on each side of it. Pour the gravy over the beef, and serve. 

481. Braised Beef a POrsini. Braise a piece of beef as for No. 479, 
serve it on a dish garnished with rice, prepared as follows : with some 
cold risotto (No. 1017) form six balls the size of an egg ; roll them in 
bread crumbs, then dip them in beaten eggs, lard them with half-inch 
slices of cooked, smoked tongue, and fry in hot fat for three minutes. 
Serve these round the beef, with its own gravy well skimmed and strained 
over. 

482. Braised Beef a la Flainande. Prepare the beef as for No. 479, 
and serve it decorated with clusters of a quarter of a cooked, red cabbage, 
two cooked carrots, and two turnips, all sliced. (Red cabbage, carrots, 
and turnips should always be cooked separately). 

483. Braised Beef en Daube. Add to a piece of braised beef, as for 
No. 479, one ounce of salt pork cut into small square pieces, the round 
slices of two carrots, and twelve glazed onions (No. 972), also one cut-up 
turnip. Put all these ingredients in the saucepan with the beef, three- 
quarters of an hour before serving. 

484. Braised Beef a la Bignon. Braise a piece of beef as for No. 
479. Take six large potatoes and pare them as -round as possible, scoop 
out the insides with a Parisian potato-spoon, being careful not to break 
them, parboil them slightly for three minutes on a quick fire, and then 
fill them with any kind of forcemeat handy ; place them in the oven with 
two tablespoonfuls of clarified butter, and bake well for twenty minutes. 
Serve them around the beef, three on each side of the dish. 

485. Braised Beef, Eussian Sauce. Cook a piece of braised beef as 
for No. 479, and serve it with a little of the gravy on the dish, and half a 
pint of Russian sauce (No. 211) separate. 

486. Smoked Beef a la Creme. Take one pound of very finely minced 
smoked beef, put it in a stewpan with half an ounce of butter, cook for 
two minutes, and moisten slightly with half a cupful of cream, adding two 
tablespoonfuls of bechamel (No. 154), and serve as soon as it boils. (Do 
not salt it). 



BEEF. 227 

487. Beefsteak Pie al'Anglaise. Slice two pounds of lean beef in half- 
inch-square slices, add two sliced onions, and stew together in a sauce- 

-pan with one ounce of butter for ten minutes, stir in two tablespoonfuls 
of flour, and mix well; moisten with one quart of water or white broth (No. 
99), still stirring. Season with a pinch each of salt and pepper, and add a 
bouquet (No. 254) ; let cook for twenty minutes, take out the bouquet, 
and fill a deep dish with the above preparation. Cut two hard-boiled eggs 
in slices, and lay them on top, cover with pie-crust (No. 1077), glaze the 
surface with egg yolk, and bake a light brown color for about eight min- 
utes in the oven; then serve. 

488. Beefsteak Pie a PAme'ricaine. Proceed the same as for No. 
487, but lising in place of the eggs one pint of potatoes cut with a vege- 
table-scoop, also one ounce of lard, cut in small pieces, and cooking them 
with the beef the same length of time. 

489. Corned Beef with Spinach. Take three pounds of rump or 
brisket of corned beef, and put it into a saucepan, covering it with fresh 
water; boil briskly for an hour and a half, and serve w'th boiled spinacfy 
a 1'Anglaise (No. 940). 

490. Corned Beef with Kale-sprouts. The same as for the above, 
only adding two quarts of kale-sprouts, half an hour before the beef is 
cooked, then arrange the cooked kale-sprouts on a dish, and put the 
corned beef over, and serve. 

491. Sirloin Steak, or Entrecote a la Bordelaise. Procure two sirloin 
steaks of one pound each ; season them with one pinch of salt and half a 
pinch of pepper. Baste on both sides with half a tablespoonful of oil, and 
put them on a broiler over a bright charcoal fire ; broil them for six min- 
utes on each side, and then place them on a hot serving-dish. Pour a 
pint of Bordelaise sauce (No. 186) over the steaks, being careful to have 
the rounds of marrow on top of the steaks unbroken, and serve very hot. 
(Broiled sirloin steaks are all to be prepared as above, only adding dif- 
ferent sauces or garnishings). 

492. Sirloin Steak a la Bearnaise. Prepare and broil two sirloin 
steaks as for No. 491, and when cooked, pour over half a pint of Bearnaise 
sauce (No. 166), and serve. 

498. Sirloin Steak a la Moelle. Broil two sirloin steaks as for No. 
491, take half a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 185), and to it add six drops- 
of tarragon- vinegar, also the marrow of one marrow-bone cut in round 
slices. Boil once only, then pour the sauce over the steaks, and serve 
very hot. 

494. Sirloin Steak Larded a la Duchesse. Procure a piece of four 
pounds of tender sirloin, pare and trim it nicely, taking out the bones; 
lard it over the top with a small larding-needle, and season with half a 
pinch of salt and a third of a pinch of pepper. Line a baking-dish with 
some pork-skin, one medium-sized, sliced carrot, half a bunch of well- 
cleaned and pared parsley-roots, one peeled, sound, sliced onion, one sprig 
of thyme, and a bay-leaf. Place the sirloin on top, and put it in the oven 
to roast for thirty minutes. Take from out the oven, dress on a hot dish, 



228 THE TABLE. 



leave it at the oven door ; add half a pint of white broth (No. 99) or con- 
somm (No. 100) to the gravy, boil it for two minutes, skim the fat off, 
strain the gravy into a sauce-bowl, and serve separate. 

195. Sirloin Steaks a la Parisienne. Broil two sirloin steaks as for 
No. 491, and serve surrounded with one pint of cooked Parisian potatoes 
(No. 986), and half a gill of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 145). 

496. Sirloin Steaks auxCepes. Lay two broiled sirloin steaks, as 
for No. 491, on a hot dish ; cut six medium-sized cepes into quarter 
pieces, put them in a frying-pan with one tablespoonful of oil, and fry for 
two minutes with one finely chopped shallot and a quarter of a clove of 
crushed garlic. Add these -ingredients to half a pint of Madeira sauce 
(No. 185), and boil for two minutes longer, then pour over the steaks, 
besprinkle with a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and serve. 

497. Sirloin Steak, with Green Peppers. Dish two broiled sirloin 
steaks (No. 491), and pour over them a sauce made as follows : empty 
three green peppers, mince them very fine, suppressing the seeds, and 
put them in a stewpan with a tablespoonful of oil. Cook for about three 
minutes, moistening with half a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 185) ; cook 
for five minutes longer, then pour the sauce over the steaks, and serve. 

498. Sirloin Pique a la Bordelaise. Proceed the same as for No. 491, 
adding a pint of Bordelaise sauce (No. 186) separately. 

499. Sirloin Pique, Marrow sauce. The same as for No. 491, only 

serving with a pint of hot marrow garnishing (No. 244) separately. 

600. Minced Beef a la Pro yen<ale. Cut into small slices a piece of 
beef weighing one pound and a half, put them in a saucepan with two 
tablespoonfuls of oil and two medium-sized, chopped onions; brown them 
together for five minutes, then add two tablespoonfuls of flour, and cover 
with a pint and a half of white broth (No. 99). Stir. well and put in two 
cut-up tomatoes, two crushed cloves of garlic, and six finely shred mush- 
rooms ; season with a good pinch of salt and a pinch of pepper; place the 
lid on the pan. Let cook for twenty minutes, then dress on a hot dish. 
Arrange six heart-shaped croutons (No. 133) around the dish, and serve. 

501. Minced Beef il la Portugaise. The same as for the above, only 
leaving out the mushrooms, and garnishing with six timbales prepared as 
follows : thoroughly clean the interiors of six small timbale-molds, then 
butter them well inside. Fill them up half their height with hot, boiled 
rice, well pressed down, so that when unmolding they will hold perfectly 
firm. Place them in the hot oven for two minutes. Unmold and arrange 
them around the dish at equal distances ; dress six small, hot, roasted 
tomatoes (No. 1028), one on top of each column of rice, and then serve. 

502. Minced Beef a la Catalan. Proceed as for No. 500, browning the 
meat in oil, and adding two very finely chopped shallots, one onion, and 
a green pepper cut into pieces. When well browned, after five minutes, 
put in a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), half a pinch of salt, and the 
same of pepper. Cook again for fifteen minutes and serve, with a tea- 
.spoonful of chopped parsley strewn over. 

503. Broiled Tenderloin Of Beef. Procure two and a half pounds of 



BEEF. 229 

tenderloin of beef; pare, cut it into three equal parts, flatten a little, then 
place them on a dish, and besprinkle with a pinch of salt, and the same of 
pepper. Baste them with one teaspoonful of sweet oil; roll them well', 
and put them on the broiler on a moderate fire ; let cook for five minutes 
on each side; then place them on a hot dish, and use any kind of sauce or 
garnishing desired. 

All broiled tenderloins are prepared the same way. 

504. Broiled Tenderloin a la Cheron. Broil three tenderloin steaks, 
as for No. 503; lay them on a dish on the top of a gill of hot Bearnaise 
sauce (No. 166), place on each steak one hot artichoke-bottom filled with 
hot Macedoine (No. 1032), pour just a little meat-glaze (No. 141) over, and 
serve. 

505. Tenderloin a la Nivernaise. Broil three tenderloin steaks, as 
for No. 503; put them on a hot dish, with half a pint of garnishing of 
mushroom sauce (No. 230); lay six poached eggs (No. 404) on top, arid 
serve. 

506. Tenderloin a la Florentin. Prepare three fillets the same as 
for No. 503; pour a gill of hot Madeira sauce (No. 185) over the steaks, 
and garnish with three hot artichokes a, la Florentin (No. 903), and 
serve. 

507. Tenderloin ji la Trianon. Broil three fillets, as for No. 503; pour 
half a pint of Bearnaise sauce (No. 166) over, and garnish with four slices 
of truffles on each; also a little meat-glaze (No. 141), and serve. 

508. Broiled Tenderloin aux Gourmets. Have three tenderloin 
steaks prepared as for No. 503; when taken from the broiler, place them 
on a warm dish, and have already prepared the following garnishing: put 
in a saucepan one pint of Madeira sauce (No. 185); add to it two truffles 
cut into square pieces, four mushrooms, an artichoke-bottom, and a 
small blanched sweetbread, either from the throat or heart, all well mincetl 
together. Cook for ten minutes; then pour this over the hot serving- 
dish. Dress the fillets over, and serve. 

509. Millions Filets k la Pompadour. After procuring two and a 
half pounds of fine, tender fillet of beef, pare it nicely all around; then 
cut it into six equal, small fillets. Flatten them slightly and equally. Place 
on a dish, season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, evenly 
divided. Place them in a pan on the hot range, with half a gill of clarified 
butter, and cook them for four minutes on each side. Prepare a pint of 
Bearnaise sauce, as in No. 166. Dress three-quarters of it on a hot 
dish (reserving the other quarter for further action). Lay six round- 
shaped pieces of bread-croutons, lightly fried in butter, over the Bear- 
naise sauce; dress the six fillets, one on top of each crouton; arrange then 
six warm artichoke-bottoms right in the centre of the fillets. Fill up the 
artichokes with a tablespoonful of hot Jardiniere (No. 1033). Evenly divide 
the remaining quarter of a pint of hot Bearnaise sauce over the Jardiniere. 
Cut into six even slices one good-sized, sound truffle; place one slice on 
the top of each, right in the centre of the Bearnaise sauce, and send to the 
table as hot as possible. 



230 



THE TABLE. 



510. Mignons Filets & la Moelle. Prepare and fry six small fillets as 
for the above (No. 509) for three minutes on both sides; lay them on a 
dish, adding one pint of hot Madeira sauce (No. 185) with six drops of 
tarragon-vinegar and eighteen round slices of marrow. Let boil once only; 
then pour the sauce around the dish, dressing the marrow on top of 
the fillet, and serve. 

511. Mignons Filets, Marinated, Russian Sauce. Trim nicely and 
lard six fillets of beef tail ends weighing each a quarter of a pound 
steep them in a cooked marinade (No. 139) for twelve hours; then drain, 
and cook them in a sautoire, with one ounce of clarified butter, for three 
minutes on each side, and serve with one pint of Russian sauce (No. 211) 
on the dish, and the fillets on top. 

512. Misriions Filets a la Bernard!. Prepare six small fillets, as 
directed for No. 509; cook them for three minutes on each side; then lay 
tne"m on a dish and pour over half a pint of hot Madeira sauce (No. 185). 
Serve with six small croustades (No. 264), garnished with Macedoine (No. 
1032), and six large game quenelles (No. 228). 

513. Mignons Filets a la Bohemienne. Lay on a dish six small fillets 
prepared the same as for No. 509. Pour over them half a pint of hot 
Madeira sauce (No. 185). Make six small croustades (No. 264), fill them 
with a cooked macaroni la creme (No. 954) cut into small pieces; also 
two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. Cover them with a round slice of 
cooked smoked tongue, and garnish the steaks with these. 

514. Mignons Filets a la Parisifnne. Pare nicely six small fillets; 
cook three minutes, as directed in No. 509; put half a pint of Madeira 
sauce (No. 185) in a saucepan, with two truffles and six mushrooms, all 
cut in slices. Let cook for ten minutes. Nicely arrange six small > round 
croutons on the hot dish; dress the fillets over them, and pour the sauce 
around, but not over them; then serve. 

515. Mignons Filets aux Pommes-de-terre Parisiennes. When 
cooked the same as the above, for three minutes, pour over the fillets 
placed on a dish half a gill of good maitre d'hotel butter (No. 145) 
thickened with some meat-glaze (No. 141), and garnish with half a pint of 
Parisian potatoes (No. 986.) 

51{>. Tenderloin Pique a la DucheSSC. Procure four pounds of ten- 
derloin; pare it well, and lard it, using a fine needle. Line the bottom of 
a roasting-pan with some pork-skin, one sliced onion, one sliced carrot, 
and half a bunch of well-washed parsley-roots. Place the tenderloin on 
top; add a pinch of salt, and roast it in a brisk oven for thirty-five min- 
utes, basting it occasionally with its own juice. Dish it up, skim the fat 
off the gravy, then strain it over the fillet, and pour half a pint of good 
Madeira sauce (No. 185) over, and garnish with six potatoes Duchesse 
(No. 1006). 

517. Tenderloin Pique a la Portugaise. Roast four pounds of 
tenderloin as in No. 516, lay it on a hot dish, arrange six stuffed tomatoes 
(No. 1023) around the tenderloin at equal distances. Put in a saucepan 
half a pint of tomato sauce (No. 205), and one gill of demi-glace (No. 



BEEF. 231 



185). Let boil for one minute, then pour it into a sauce-bowl and serve 
separate. 

518. Roast four pounds of tenderloin as for No. 516, slice half a pint 
of cepes, and add them to half a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 185) with one 
crushed clove of garlic. Pour the sauce onto a dish, lay the tenderloin 
on top, and decorate with some twisted anchovies, and twelve stoned 
olives laid on each one; then serve. 

519. Roast Tenderloin a la Hussard. Procure four pounds of fillet 
of beef, pare it nicely, and season with one pinch each of salt and pepper; 
butter the surface lightly, and lay it in a roasting-pan, and put it to cook 
for ten minutes in a brisk oven, then set it aside to cool, and afterwards 
lay on it some very fine chicken forcemeat (No. 226), besprinkle with fresh 
bread-crumbs, and baste with three tablespoonfuls of clarified butter. 
Roast it again for thirty-five minutes, and serve with three-quarters of a 
pint of the following Hussard garnishing on the dish. 

Put in a saucepan on the hot stove half a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 
185), a gill of tomato sauce (No. 205), six good-sized, sound mushrooms, 
cut into small pieces, twelve godiveau quenelles (No. 221), and three 
ounces of cooked, smoked beef-tongue, cut in round pieces. Let all cook 
together for five minutes, and use when required. 

520. Tenderloin Pique a la Sevigne. Roast a piece of tenderloin as 
for No. 519; when done and laid on a dish, pour over it half a pint of 
good Madeira sauce (No. 185), and decorate with six small bouchees filled 
with spinach (No. 588). 

521. Tenderloin Pique" a FEgyptienne. Roast a piece of tender- 
loin as for No. 519, lay it on a dish, pouring over it half a pint of good 
Madeira sauce (No. 185). Garnish one side of the dish with three roots 
of boiled celery the white part only and the other side with eighteen 
cooked gumbos (No. 1030), then serve. 

522. Tenderloin Pique a la Richelieu. Exactly the same as for No. 
519, only adding one pint of hot Richelieu sauce under the fillet (No. 
539), and serve. 

523. Tenderloin Pique a la Bernardi. Take a four-pound piece of 
tenderloin, lard it using a small larding needle with very thin pieces of 
fresh ham and truffles, all cut the same size; put it into the oven to 
roast for thirty-five minutes, and then lay it on a dish, trimming the fillets 
carefully, the larded part being on the top. Pour over half a pint of good, 
hot Madeira sauce (No. 185), and garnish with three artichoke-bottoms, 
filled with hot Macedoine (No. 1032), three bouchees filled with spinach 
(No. 588), and three large game quenelles (No. 228). Arrange these to 
represent one single bouquet, and serve. 

624. Porterhouse Steak. Procure two porterhouse steaks of one 
and a half pounds each see that they are cut from the short loin- 
flatten them well, pare and trim, and season with one pinch of salt and 
half a pinch of pepper. Put them on a dish with half a tablespoonful of 
oil: roll well, and put them on a moderate fire to broil seven minutes on 
each side. Lay them on a warm dish, pour one gill of maitre d'hdtel 



232 THE TABLE. 



butter (No. 145) over, and serve with a little watercress around the 
dish. 

525. Double Porterhouse Steak. Have a fine porterhouse steak of 
three pounds, and proceed as for No. 524. Broil on a rather slow char- 
coal fire, if possible, ten minutes on each side, then serve as for the 
above. 

526. Hamburg Steak, Russian Sauce. Take two pounds of lean 
beef the hip part is preferable remove all the fat, and put it in a Salis- 
bury chopping machine; then lay it in a bowl, adding a very finely 
chopped shallot, one raw egg for each pound of beef, a good pinch of salt, 
half a pinch of pepper, and a third of a pinch of grated nutmeg. Mix 
well together, then form it into six flat balls the size of a small fillet. 
Roll them in fresh bread-crumbs, and fry them in the pan with two table- 
spoonfuls of clarified butter for two minutes on each side, turning them 
frequently and keeping them rare. Serve with half a pint of Russian 
sauce (No. 211) or any other desired. 

527. Roast Beef. In order to have a fine piece of beef cooked to per- 
fection, and at the same time have it retain all its juices, purchase, from a 
first-class butcher only, a three-rib piece near the short loin part. Saw 
off the spine, also the bones of the three ribs to one inch from the meat, so 
as to have it as nearly a round shape as possible. Season with one and a 
quarter pinches of salt, divided equally all over, tie it together, and place 
it lengthwise in a roasting-pan. Pour a tablespoonful and a half of 
water into the pan so as to prevent its burning, then a few very small bits 
of butter can be distributed on top of the beef, if so desired. Set it in a 
rather moderate oven, and let roast for one hour and ten minutes, taking 
care to baste frequently with its own gravy. Remove it from the oven, 
untie, and dress it on a very hot dish, skim the fat from the gravy, and 
pour in two tablespoonfuls of broth, heat up a little, strain the gravy into 
a sauce-bowl, and send to the table. 

The parings from the beef can be utilized for soup-stock; nothing need 
be wasted. 

528. Corned Beef Hash a la Polonaise. Brown in a saucepan two 
onions, with one ounce of butter; add one pound of cooked, well-chopped 
corned beef, and one pint of hashed potatoes. Moisten with a gill of 
broth, and a gill of Espagnole (No. 151). Season with half a pinch of 
pepper and a third of a pinch of nutmeg ; stir well and let cook for fifteen 
minutes, then serve with six poached eggs on top (No. 404), and sprinkle 
over with a pinch of chopped parsley. 

529. Corned Beef Hash au Gratin. Make a hash as for the above, 
(No. 528), put it in a lightly buttered baking-dish, and besprinkle with 
rasped bread-crumbs. Moisten slightly with about one teaspoonful of 
clarified butter, and bake in the oven for fifteen minutes, or until it obtains 
a good brown color; then serve. 

680. Corned Beef Hash a la Zingara. The same as for No. 528, 
adding to the hash two good-sized, freshly peeled, and cut-up tomatoes 
(or half a pint of canned), one bruised clove of garlic, and one pinch 



BEEF. 



233 



of chopped parsley. Let all cook together for fifteen minutes, then 
serve. 

531. Corned Beef Hash en Bordure. Form a border around a baking- 
dish with mashed potatoes (No. 998), set it for two minutes in the oven, 
then fill the centre with hot corned beef hash (No. 528). Besprinkle the 
top with one pinch of chopped parsley, and serve. 

532. Beef-Tongue a la Gendarme. Boil a fresh beef-tongue in the 
soup-stock for one hour and a half. Skin it, then place it on a dish, 
adding one pint of Gendarme garnishing, made by pouring a pint of 
Madeira sauce (No. 185) into a saucepan. Put it on the hot stove, and 
add twelve small godiveau quenelles (No. 221). Cut up six small, sound 
pickles, four mushrooms, and two ounces of smoked beef-tongue ; add these 
to the sauce, and let cook for five minutes, stirring it lightly, then serve. 

633. Beef-Tongue, Sauce Piquante. The same as for the above, No. 
532. When the tongue is ready, decorate it with pickles, and serve with 
a pint of sauce piquante (No. 203) separate, instead of the other gar- 
nishing. 

534. Beef-Tongue, Napolitaine. The same as for No. 532, adding one 
pint of hot Napolitaine garnishing (No. 195), instead of the other garnishing. 

535. Beef-Tongue a la Jardiniere. The same as for No. 532, adding 
one pint of hot Jardiniere (No. 1033), in place of the other garnishing. 

536. Beef-Tongue, With Spinach. The same as for No. 532, sub- 
stituting one pint of spinach with gravy (No. 943) for the other gar- 
nishing. 

537. Beef-Tongue, au Risotto. The same as for No. 532, only 
adding one pint of hot Risotto (No. 1017) for the other garnishing. 

638. Beef-Tongue a la Milanaise. The same as for No. 532, only 
substituting one pint of Milanaise garnishing (No. 251) for the other. 

539. Roulade of Beef a 1'Ecarlate. Procure six pounds of fine 
brisket of prime beef; roll it up as close as possible, so as to have it very 
firm, then firmly tie it around. Put in a saucepan one sound, peeled 
onion, one well- washed and scraped, sound carrot, both cut into thin 
slices, one sprig of thyme, one bay-leaf, three cloves A and a few shreds 
of larding-pork. Place the roulade over all. Season with two pinches of 
salt and one pinch of pepper. Cover the pan very tightly to prevent 
steam from escaping. Should the lid be loose, place a weight' on top of 
it. Place it on a moderate fire, and let gently simmer for twenty minutes 
in all. Remove the lid, add two glasses of white wine, and one gill of 
broth (No. 99). Cover very tightly again, place in the hot oven, and let 
braise for fully two hours. Remove from the oven, untie, dress on a hot 
dish. Skim the fat off the gravy, strain the gravy into a sautoire, 
and reduce it on the hot range to one-half. Cut up an ounce of cooked, 
smoked beef-tongue into cock's-comb shape, one good-sized, sound, sliced 
truffle, six godiveau quenelles (No. 221), and six mushrooms. Place all 
these in a sautoire on the fire, with half a wine-glassful of Madeira wine, 
letting boil for one minute. Strain the reduced gravy of the roulade over 
this; add half a gill of tomato sauce (No. 205), and half a gill of Espagnole 



234 THE TABLE. 



sauce (No. 151). Cook again for five minutes, then pour it into a sauce- 
bowl and send to the table separate, very hot. 

540. Stewed Beef a PEgyptienne. Cut two pounds of beef into 
small, square pieces, brown them in a stewpan with one ounce of butter, 
adding two onions, cut into square pieces. When well browned, for 
about ten minutes, add two tablespoonfuls of flour; stir briskly with a 
pint and a half of white broth (No. 99), also one gill of tomato sauce I'No. 
205). Season with one good pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, put 
in a bouquet (No. 254), one clove of crushed garlic, and let CUOK for 
twenty-five minutes. Dish up the beef with a bunch of eighteen cooked 
gumbos (No. 1030), also three stalks of white, cooked celery. 

541. Stewed Beef il la Dufour. Prepare two pounds of small, square 
cuts of beef, brown them with two onions cut in square pieces, adding 
two tablespooufuls of flour, cooking for six minutes. Stir well, and 
moisten with one quart of broth (No. 99), and one gill of tomato sauce 
(No. 205.) Put in also one pint of raw potatoes, cut in quarters, and let 
cook thoroughly for twenty-five minutes, with a bouquet (No. 254), a 
good pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, also one crushed garlic; 
then serve. 

642. Stewed Beef a la Turque. Cook the beef as directed in No. 
541, substituting a good teaspoonful of curry, and serve with six timbales 
filled with cooked rice (No. 501). Unmold them, and use them instead 
of the potatoes. 

543. Stewed Beef a la Marseillaise. Proceed the same as for No. 
541, omitting the potatoes, but adding two tomatoes cut in pieces, six 
chopped mushrooms, and two crushed cloves of garlic, all cooked six 
minutes with the beef. Serve with a teaspoonful of chopped parsley 
strewn over. 

544. Tripe a la Bordelaise. Take a pound and a half of lozenge- 
shaped pieces of tripe, cut into twelve parts. Marinate them for two 
hours in one tablespoonful of oil, with a pinch of salt, half a pinch of pep- 
per, one bay-leaf, one sprig of thyme, six whole peppers, the juice of one 
sound lemon, and one crushed clove of garlic. Drain, roll them in flour, 
then in beaten egg, and finally in fresh bread-crumbs. Fry in one ounce of 
clarified butter in a pan for five minutes on each side, and serve with a gill 
of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 145), adding to it a teaspoonful of meat- 
glaze (No. 141). 

545. Tripe a la Creole. Cut a pound and a half of tripe into small 
pieces, fry them in a pan with two ounces of butter, one chopped onion, 
and half a green pepper, also chopped. Brown them slightly for six 
minutes, then transfer them to a saucepan with one cut-up tomato and 
half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151). Season with one pinch of salt 
and half a pinch of pepper, adding a bouquet (No. 254), also a crushed 
clove of garlic. Cook for ten minutes and serve with one teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley. 

546. Tripe a la Pleoutte. Shred one and a half pounds of tripe, 
brown it slightly for three minutes in a pan, with an ounce of butter, one 



VEAL. 



235 



pinch of salt, and half a pinch of pepper; then transfer it to a saucepan, 
with half a pint of good Allemande sauce (No. 210). Let cook five 
minutes longer, then squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, besprinkle with 
a pinch of chopped parsley, and serve. 

547. Tripe a la Mode de Caen. Take one raw, double tripe, one ox- 
foot, three calf's feet, all well-washed and cleansed several times in fresh 
water, cutting them in pieces two inches long by one square. Have an 
earthen pot, or a saucepan, put pieces of feet at the bottom, cover over 
with tripe, then a layer of sliced carrots and onions, and continue the 
same until the vessel is full, carefully seasoning each layer. Tie in 
a cloth a sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, twelve whole peppers, and six 
cloves; put this in the middle of the pot, throw over a bottleful of 
cider or white wine, and a little brandy (say one pony); lay on the top 
the stalks of some green leeks, parsley-roots, and cabbage leaves; cover, 
and fasten it down with paste, so that the steam cannot escape, and leave 
it for about ten hours in a very slow oven. Take it from the oven and 
serve when required. 

548. Tripe a la Lyonnaise. Cut up a pound and a half of double 
tripe, also two onions, and brown them in the pan with one ounce of 
clarified butter until they assume a fine golden color. Drain them, put 
them back on the fire, add one tablespoonful of vinegar and a gill of 
good Espagnole (No. 157). Stew for two minutes longer, and serve with 
a pinch of chopped parsley sprinkled over. 

A pinch of salt represents 205 grains, or a tablespoonful. 

Half a pinch of pepper represents 38 grains, or a teaspoonful. 

A third of a pinch of nutmeg represents 13 grains, or half a teaspoonful. 



VBAL. 



549. Blanqnette of Feal. Cut into two-inch-square pieces two and 
a half pounds of breast of veal. Soak it in fresh water for one hour ; 
drain it well, then lay it in a saucepan ; cover with fresh water ; boil, and 
be very careful to skim off all the scum. Add a well-garnished bouquet 
(No. 254), six small, well-peeled, sound, white onions, two good pinches 
of salt and a pinch of white pepper. Cook for forty minutes. Melt about 
an ounce and a half of butter in another saucepan, add to it three table- 
spoonfuls of flour, stir well for three minutes ; moisten with a pint of 
broth from the veal ; boil for five minutes. Set it on the side of the 
stove. Beat up in a bowl three egg yolks, with the juice of a medium- 
sized, sound lemon and a very little grated nutmeg. Take the prepar- 
ation in the saucepan, gradually add it to the egg yolks, &c. , briskly mix 
with a wooden spoon meanwhile until all added. Throw this over the 
veal, lightly toss the whole, but be careful not to allow to boil again; 



236 THE TABLE. 



then serve. All blanquettes are prepared the same way, adding different 
garnishings. 

550. Blanquette Of Veal a la Reilie. The same as for No. 549, add- 
ing six chopped mushrooms, and twelve godiveau quenelles (No. 221) 
two minutes before serving. 

551. Blanquette Of Veal with Peas. The same as for No. 549, add- 
ing one pint of cooked, green, or canned blanched peas two minutes 
before serving. 

552. Blanquette of Veal with Nouillei. The same as for No. 549, 
adding a quarter of a pound of cooked nouilles (No. 1182) around the 
serving-dish as a border. 

553. Blanquette of Veal a 1'Ancienne. The same as for No. 549, 
adding one ounce of salt pork cut into small pieces, and cooked with the 
meat from the commencement, and six sliced mushrooms two minutes 
before serving. 

554. Brisotin of Veal. Cut up six pieces of lean veal about a quarter 
of an inch thick, and of the length of the hand. Flatten them, and season 
with one pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper. Lard the centres, using 
a small larding needle, with strips of larding-pork. Lay any kind of 
forcemeat at hand on them, roll well, and tie with a string. Put them 
into a deep sautoire with a very little fat, one sliced carrot, and one 
medium-sized, sliced onion. Cover the whole with a piece of buttered 
paper ; set it on the fire, and let it take a good golden color for about five 
minutes. Moisten with half a pint of white broth (No. 99), then put the 
saucepan in the oven, and cook slowly for twenty minutes, basting it 
occasionally, and serve. 

Brisotins are all prepared the same way, adding different garnishings. 

555. Brisotin of Veal a PEcarlate. The same as for No. 554, add- 
ing half a pint of hot ecarlate sauce (No. 539). 

556. Brisotin of Veal, Nantaise. The same as for No. 554, placing 
six stuffed lettuce-heads (No. 953) around the dish, and pouring one gill 
of hot Madeira sauce (No. 185) over it. 

557. Calf's Brains with Black Butter. Place three fine, fresh calf's 
brains in cold water, and then peel off the skins. Wash again in cold 
water ; neatly drain ; put them in a sautoire and cover with fresh water. 
Add two pinches of salt, half a cupful of vinegar, one medium-sized, sliced 
carrot, one sprig of thyme, one bay-leaf, and twelve whole peppers. Boil 
for five minutes, drain well, and cut each brain in two. Dress them on a 
dish, and serve with a gill of very hot black butter (No. 159). 

Calf's brain is always prepared as above, adding any desired sauce. 

558. Calf's Brains h la Vinaigrette. Exactly the same as for No. 
557, serving on a folded napkin on a dish, garnishing with a few green 
parsley-leaves, and a gill of vinaigrette sauce (No. 201), separately. 

559. Fried Calf's Brains, Tartare Sauce. Proceed as in No. 557, then 
dry the brains well in a napkin ; bread them a 1'Anglaise (No. 301), and 
fry in hot grease for five minutes. Serve with half a pint of tartare sauce 
(No. 207), separately. 



VEAL. 237 

560. Veal Cutlets a la Pagasqui. Chop well two or three times in 
the machine two pounds of lean veal, from the hip if possible; place the 
meat in a bowl with two ounces of finely chopped, raw veal-suet. Season 
with one good pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and the third of a 
pinch of nutmeg. Add half a cupful of good cream, one chopped shallot 
and two raw eggs. Mix well together. Shape six pieces like chops, 
sprinkle them with bread-crumbs, and fry in a stewpan with two ounces 
of clarified butter for four minutes on each side. Serve with a gill of any 
kind of sauce. 

561. Veal Cutlets a la St. Cloud. Lard thoroughly six veal cutlets 
with two small truffles, cut julienne-shape, one ounce of cooked beef- 
tongue, and one ounce of larding-pork, both cut the same. Place them in 
a sautoire with a pinch of salt, one sliced carrot, and one sliced onion, and 
let them brown for ten minutes, being ^careful to keep the lid on the pan. 
Moisten with half a pint of broth, and put them in the oven to finish cook- 
ing for at least fifteen minutes. Serve with a hot salpicon sauce, the 
chicken cut in large pieces (No. 256), pouring the sauce on the dish, and 
lay the chops on top. 

562. Veal Cutlets a la Marechale. Pare nicely six veal cutlets; season 
them with a tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonf ul of pepper. Cook in a 
sautoire with two ounces of butter for five minutes on each side. Moisten 
with half a pint of Espagnolc sauce (No. 151), adding four sliced mush- 
rooms, twelve small godiveau quenelles (No. 221), and three chicken 
livers, blanched and cut into pieces. Cook for five minutes longer, and 
serve with six croutons (No. 133). 

563. Veal Cutlets a la Milanaise. Pare nicely and season well with a 
tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper six veal cutlets. Dip 
them in beaten egg, then in grated Parmesan cheese, and finally in fresh 
bread-crumbs. Flatten them, and cook them in a sautoire with six ounces 
of clarified butter for five minutes on each side, and serve with half a pint 
of garnishing Milanaise (No. 251). 

To prepare breaded veal cutlets with tomato sauce, bread six cutlets 
as for the above, omit the cheese, cook them as described, and serve with 
half a pint of tomato sauce (No. 205). 

564. Broiled Veal Cutlets. Cut six even veal cutlets from a fine 
piece of the loin of white veal, pare them and flatten them slightly ; lay 
them on a dish, and season with a tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of 
pepper, and one tablespoonful of sweet oil. Turn the cutlets around 
several times ; then put them on the broiler to broil for eight minutes on 
each side. Remove them from the fire ; arrange them on a hot dish, 
spread a little maitre d'hotel (No. 145) over them, and send to the 
table. 

565. Veal Cutlets a la Philadelphia. Pare and brown in a sautoire 
with two ounces of butter six veal cutlets. Season them with a pinch of 
salt and half a pinch of pepper, turning them carefully at times. Add two 
onions cut in thick slices, and place the lid on the sautoire. Stir the onions 
occasionally, and when of a golden brown color, moisten with half a pint 



238 THE TABLE. 



of Espagnole sauce (No. 151). Cook for fifteen minutes, and serve with 
one teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 

566. Veal Cutlets en Papillotes. Pare nicely six veal cutlets; put 
them in a sautoire with one ounce of butter, and season with a table- 
spoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper. Add half a chopped onion, 
and brown slightly. Cook for eight minutes with four finely chopped 
mushrooms, moistening with a gill of Espagnole sauce (No. 151). Cook 
for four minutes longer. Then take out the cutlets, drain them, and put 
them to cool. Add to the gravy a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and 
two tablespoonfuls of fresh bread-crumbs. Now take six pieces of oiled 
white paper cut heart-shaped, put a thin slice of cooked ham on one side 
of the paper ; then lay on the ham a little of the stock, and on top of it a 
cutlet, and another layer of the stock, and over all a thin slice of cooked 
ham. Cover with the second part of the paper, close it by folding the 
two edges firmly together, and proceed the same with the other cutlets. 
Bake for a short time (at most five minutes) in the oven, rather slowly, 
and then serve. 

567. Curry of Veal a I'lndienne. Cut into pieces and blanch in salted 
water two pounds of any kind of lean, raw veal. Drain and wash the*n 
well. Put the pieces into a saucepan, and cover them with warm water; 
seasoning with two pinches of salt and one pinch of pepper, adding also a 
bouquet (No. 254), and six small whole onions. Cook for twenty-five 
minutes. Then make a gill of roux blanc (No. 135), in a saucepan, 
moistening it with the liquor from the veal ; stir it well, and then add a 
tablespoonful of diluted curry-powder and three raw egg yolks, beating 
up as they are put in. Dress the veal on a hot dish ; immediately strain 
the roux over it (as it must not cook again). Neatly arrange half a pint of 
hot, plain, boiled rice all around the dish, then serve. 

56S. Escalops of Veal, plain. Pare and cut two pounds of veal 
(from the hip is preferable) into six even steak-form slices. Season with 
one pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper. Then brown them in a 
sautoire on a very hot range, with one ounce of butter, for five minutes 
on each side ; dress on a hot dish, and serve with any kind of sauce or 
garnishing desired. 

569. Escalops of Veal a la Diixelle. Prepare six escalops as for No. 
568, adding a chopped shallot, six mushrooms shred as finely as possible, 
one crushed clove of garlic, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Moisten 
with a gill of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), and half a glassful of white 
wine. Cook for five minutes longer, pour them on a hot dish, place the 
escalops over, and then serve. 

570. Escalops of Veal with Stuffed Peppers. Proceed exactly as for 
No. 568, adding the juice of half a medium-sized, sound lemon, and a gill 
of hot Madeira sauce (No. 185). Cook for three minutes longer, and dec- 
orate the dish with six stuffed green-peppers (No. 975) three minutes 
before serving. 

571. Escalops of Veal a la Chicoree. Prepare and proceed precisely 
the same as for No. 568. Cook for eight minutes. Then dress half 



VEAL. 239 

a pint of chicoree au jus (No. 934) on the hot dish, and send to the 
table. 

572. Escalops of Veal a 1'Italienne. The same as for No. 568, adding 
one medium-sized, chopped onion, six chopped mushrooms, one teaspoon- 
ful of parsley, and a crushed clove of garlic. Moisten with half a glassful 
of white wine, and cook for five minutes with a gill of Espagnole sauce 
(No. 151), and serve. 

573. Escalops of Veal a la Provencale. Prepare as for . No. 568, 
replacing the butter by the same quantity of oil. Season well, and when 
browned on both sides add one shallot or a finely chopped onion. Let 
them color, and then moisten with a gill of broth. Add two tablespoon- 
fuls of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), three chopped cepes, two crushed 
cloves of garlic, and a teaspoonful of parsley. Boil once, and then serve 
with six croutons of fried bread (No. 133). 

574. Escalops of Sweetbreads a la Richelieu. Take four blanched 
sweetbreads (No. 601); cut them into slices, and stew them in a saucepan, 
with an ounce of butter and half a glassful of white wine. Season with 
a tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, and half a teaspoonful of 
nutmeg. Cook for six minutes, then moisten with a gill of thick Alle- 
mande sauce (No. 210), and add two sliced truffles and four sliced mush- 
rooms. Fill six scallop-shells with the preparation; sprinkle the tops 
with fresh bread-crumbs; pour a few drops of clarified butter over all, 
and brown slightly in the oven for five minutes. Serve on a dish with a 
folded napkin. 

575. Minced Veal h la Catalan. Mince two pounds of lean veal, and 
brown it in a saucepan with three tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, one onion 
cut in quarters, and half a minced green-pepper. When a fine color, add 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, and mix thoroughly. Moisten with one pint 
of white broth (No. 99), and season with a heaped tablespoonful of salt, a 
teaspoonful of pepper; stir briskly, and add a bouquet (No. 254), three 
cloves of crushed garlic, and a gill of tomato sauce (No. 205). Cook well for 
twenty-five minutes; then serve, sprinkling a little chopped parsley over it. 

570. Minced Veal a la Hiscaenne. Proceed as for No. 575, adding one 
pint of potatoes Parisiennes (No. 986), and two cut-up tpmatoes, fifteen 
minutes before serving. 

577. Fricandeau with Sorrel. Cut a slice of three pounds from a leg 
of veal; remove the sinews, and lard the surface with a medium-sized 
larding needle. Place it in a sautoire in which there are already pieces 
of pork-skin, one sliced onion, one sliced carrot, and a bouquet (No. 254). 
Season with a tablespoonful of salt, cover with a buttered paper, and let it 
color slightly for five minutes on the stove.' Then moisten with half a 
pint of white broth (No. 99), and cook one hour, basting it occasionally. 
Serve with half a pint of puree of sorrel (No. 974) on the dish, placing the 
veal on top. 

All fricandeaus are prepared in the same way. 

578. Fricandeau with Spinach. The same as for No. 577, adding half 
a pint of hot spinach au gras (No. 943) instead of the sorrel. 



240 THE TABLE. 



579. Fricandeau a la Morlaisienne. The same as for No. 577, serving 
it with a gill of hot Madeira sauce (No. 185), and garnishing with six small 
stuffed cabbages around the dish (No. 919). 

80. Calf's Liver Stewed a 1'Italienne. Cut two pounds of fresh 
calf's liver into small pieces. Put them with one ounce of clarified butter 
into a pan on the hot range, with one peeled and finely chopped, sound 
onion, and a clove of crushed garlic. Season with one pinch of salt and half 
a pinch of pepper. Cook well for five minutes, shuffling the pan well 
meanwhile, then moisten with half a glassful of white wine and a gill of 
Espagnole sauce (No. 151). Add six chopped mushrooms, and cook once 
more for three minutes. Serve with a teaspoonful of finely chopped 
parsley. 

581. Calf's Liver Saute a la Provenoale. Proceed as for No. 580, 
adding two crushed cloves of garlic. Squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. 
Serve with a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 

582. Calf 's Liver a 1'Alsacienne. Cut two pounds of calf s liver into 
square pieces, and put them inasautoire with one ounce of clarified butter. 
Season with a tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper, and add 
two medium-sized, sliced onions. When well stewed for six minutes, pour 
in a teaspoonful of vinegar, and two tablespoonfuls of Espagnole sauce (No. 
151), and let it just come to a boil. Serve with a little chopped parsley. 

583. Calf's Liver Braised a la Bourgeoise. Place a small calf's liver, 
larded thoroughly with pieces of larding pork, previously seasoned with 
a pinch of chopped parsley and a hashed clove of garlic, in a saucepan on 
the fire, with two tablespoonfuls of clarified butter, one sprig of thyme, 
two bay-leaves, half a sliced carrot, and half a sliced onion. Turn the 
liver over and moisten it with one gill of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), and 
a gill of white broth (No. 99). Season with a pinch of salt and half a 
pinch of pepper, and cook for forty-five minutes. Strain the sauce into 
another saucepan (meanwhile keeping the liver in a warm place), adding 
to the gravy two medium-sized, sound, well-scraped, sliced, raw carrots, 
and two ounces of salt pork cut into shreds. Stew well together for 
twenty-five minutes, and pour the garnishing over the liver just before 
serving, decorating with six small onions around the dish. 

581. Calf's Liver Broiled with Bacon. Take a nice, tender, fresh 
calf's liver weighing a pound and a half ; pare and trim off the hard por- 
tions; cut it into six equal-sized slices, and put them on a dish. Season 
with a tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, and one tablespoon- 
ful of sweet oil; mix well together. Broil for four minutes on each side. 
Arrange the slices on a hot serving-dish, and decorate with six thin and 
crisp slices of broiled bacon (No. 754). Spread a gill of maitre d'hotel 
butter (No. 145) over, and serve very hot. 

585. Loin of Veal 9 Roasted. Saw from a fine, white, fresh, and fat 
loin of veal with the kidney, the spine, and whatever hip-bone remains. 
Season the loin with a tablesj oonful and a half of salt, and one heaped 
teaspoonful of pepper and roll the flank part neatly over the kidney, and 
tie it with a string. 



VEAL. 241 

Have ready a lightly buttered roasting-pan. Lay in it the loin; pour 
in half a glassful of water, and distribute a few bits of butter over the 
meat. Then cover its entire length with a piece of well-buttered paper. 
Place the pan in a moderate oven, and roast it for one hour and three- 
quarters, meanwhile basting it frequently with its own gravy. Take it 
out of the oven, untie it, and place it on a hot serving-dish. Add three 
tablespoonfuls of broth to the gravy in the pan, skim off the fat and re- 
duce it to the consistency of a demi-glace sauce; then strain it through a 
colander, either over the roast or into a separate sauce-bowl, and send it 
to the table immediately. 

Loin of lamb, roasted, is to be prepared exactly as above described, 
letting it cook fifty minutes instead of an hour and three-quarters. 

Loin of mutton is also to be roasted and served in the same way, but 
one hour's cooking will be sufficient. 

586. Grenadins of Veal, Puree of Peas. Cut into six pieces two 
pounds of lean veal from off the leg; extract the sinews, and lard the veal 
nicely on one side, using a needle for the purpose. Lay the pieces in a 
sautoire, with one carrot, one onion, and some scraps of pork, and let 
them brown together for six minutes. Season with a tablespoonful of 
salt, and moisten with a gill of white broth (No. 99). Put the sautoire 
into the oven, covering it with a piece of buttered paper. After thirty 
minutes, or when of a good color, remove, and serve with half a pint of 
hot puree of peas (No. 49) on the dish, the grenadins on top, and the gravy 
strained over all. 

587. Grenadins of Veal a la Chipolata. The same as for No. 586, only 
adding half a pint of hot chipolata garnishing (No. 232) instead of the 
peas. 

588-. Grenadins of Veal a la Sevigne'. The same as for No. 586, only 
decorating the dish with six bouchees Sevigne, made by preparing six 
small bouchees (No. 270), and filling them with very finely chopped 
spinach au jus (No 943). Lay the covers on and serve very hot with- 
out any other garnishing. 

589. Grenadins of Veal a PAfricaine. Prepare the same as for No. 
586, serving very hot, with three small, stuffed egg-plants (No. 909), and 
eighteen medium-sized, cooked gumbos (No. 1030). 

590. Braised Noix of Veal a la Providence. Lard thoroughly a knuckle 
of veal of three pounds, braise it nicely in a saucepan with an ounce of 
fresh salt pork, one tablespoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of pepper. 
Cook for fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally, and moistening with half 
a pint of white broth (No. 99), and half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 
151.) Add one pint of raw Jardiniere (No. 1033) and a cupful of flageolets. 
Cook for forty-five minutes all together. Transfer the knuckle to a hot 
dish, pour the garnishing over, and serve. 

591. Braised Noix of Veal en Daube. Proceed the same as for 
braised beef en Daube (No. 483). 

592. Panpietteof Veal a la Faubonne. Cut two pounds of veal off the 
leg into six thin slices. Pare them to the size of the hand, and season 

16 



242 THE TABLE. 



with a tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper. Fill them with 
any kind of forcemeat, roll, and tie together with string. Put them in a 
sautoire with small scraps of pork, adding half a sliced carrot and half a 
sliced onion. Cover with a barde of larding pork on top, and brown for 
ten minutes. Moisten with a gill of white broth (No. 99); cover with 
buttered paper, and put in the oven to finish cooking for twenty-five 
miftutes. Serve with half a pint of puree of lentils (No. 46), mixed 
with two tablespoonfuls of cream, and a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley. 

593. Panpiette of Veal al'Ecarlate. The same as for No. 592, pour- 
ing half a pint of hot Ecarlate sauce (No. 247) over the panpiettes. 

594. Panpiette of Veal, Puree of Chestnuts. The same as for No. 
592, adding half a pint of hot puree of chestnuts (No. 131). 

595. Panpiette of Veal, Sauce Duxelle. The same as for No. 592, 
putting half a pint of hot Duxelle sauce (No. 189) on the dish, and 
arranging the panpiettes over it. 

596. Breast of Veal a la Milanaise. Bone a breast of veal of two and 
a half pounds; season with one tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of 
pepper. Stuff it in the usual way with forcemeat (No. 229). Roll and tie 
it, making a few incisions in the skin, and put it in a saucepan, with one 
sliced carrot and one sliced onion. Braise it for one hour and a half in 
the oven, basting it occasionally with its own gravy. Serve with half a 
pint of hot Milanaise garnishing (No. 251) on the dish, placing the meat 
on top, and straining the gravy over it. 

597. Calf's Feet, Naturel. Split each of three calf's feet in two; re- 
move the large bone, and put them in fresh water for one hour. Wash 
thoroughly, drain, and place them in a saucepan, with two tablespoonfuls 
of flour and three quarts of cold water. Stir well; add a gill of vinegar, 
one onion, one carrot (all cut in shreds), twelve whole peppers, a handful 
of salt, and a bouquet (No. 254), and cook briskly for one hour and a half. 
Drain well, and serve with any kind of sauce required. 

598. Calfs Feet a la Poulette. The same as for No. 597, adding half a 
pint of hot poulette sauce, made by putting one pint of hot Allemande sauce 
(No. 210) into a saucepan, with one ounce of fresh butter, adding the 
juice of half a medium-sized lemon, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 
Heat well on the hot stove until thoroughly melted and mixed, but do 
not let it boil. Keep the sauce warm, and serve for all sauce poulettes. 

599. CalPs Feet, Sauce Piquante. Same as for No. 597, adding half 
a pint of hot piquante sauce (No. 203). 

600. CalPs Feet, Sauce ReniOlllade. Same as for No. 597, adding half 
a pint of hot Remoulade sauce (No. 209). 

601. How to Blanch Sweetbreads. Clean and neatly trim three pairs 
of fine sweetbreads. Soak them for three hours in three different fresh 
waters, one hour in each water, with one pinch of salt in each water. 
Drain, place in cold water, and blanch them until they come to a boil. 
Then drain, and freshen them in cold water. Cover with a napkin, lay 
them aside in a cool place, and they will now be ready for general use. 



VEAL. 



243 



When they are to be used in molds, they should be gently pressed down 
with a pound weight. 

602. Sweetbreads, Braised. Take six blanched heart-sweetbreads as 
above, lard the upper parts slightly, and put them in a sautoire with some 
slices of pork-skin. Add half a sliced carrot, half a sliced onion, and a bou- 
quet (No. 254). Sprinkle over them a pinch of salt, and cover them with a 
buttered paper. Reduce to a golden color, and moisten with half a pint 
of strong white broth (No. 99). Cook it in the oven for forty minutes, 
basting occasionally with the gravy, lifting the buttered paper, and re- 
placing it each time in the same position. The sweetbreads will now be 
ready to serve with any kind of sauce or garnishing desired. Always 
place the sauce or garnishing on a hot serving-dish, and lay the sweet- 
breads over it, then send to the table. 

603. Sweetbreads Braised a la Financiere. Prepare six sweetbreads, 
as in No. 602, and serve with half a pint of hot Financiere sauce (No* 246). 

604. Sweetbreads Braised with Sorrel. The same as for No. 602, 
adding half a pint of hot puree of sorrel (No. 974). 

605. Sweetbreads Braised aii Salpicon. The same as for No. 602, 
adding half a pint of hot salpicon (No. 256). 

606. Sweetbreads a la Soubise. The same as for No. 602, adding half 
a pint of hot soubise (No. 250). 

607. Sweetbreads Braised, with Spinach. The same as for No. 602, 
adding half a pint of hot spinach (No. 943). 

608. Sweetbreads a la Sauce Duxelle. The same as for No 602, add- 
ing half a pint of hot duxelle sauce (No. 189). 

609. Sweetbreads Braised, with Mushroom Sauce. The same as for 
No. 602, adding half a pint of hot mushroom sauce (No. 230). 

610. Sweetbreads Braised a la Sauce Beamaise. The same as for 
No. 602, adding half a pint of hot Bearnaise sauce (No. 166). 

611. Sweetbreads Braised aux Cepes. The same as for No. 602, add- 
ing half a pint of hot cepes. 

612. Sweetbreads Braised aux Gourmets. The same as for No. 602, 
adding half a pint of hot gourmet garnishing (No. 241). 

613. Sweetbreads Braised a la Parisienne. The same as for No. 602, 
adding half a pint of hot Parisienne garnishing (No. 240). 

614. Sweetbreads Braised a la Godard. The same as for No. 602, 
adding half a pint of hot Godard garnishing (No. 238). 

615. Sweetbreads Braised a la Moiltglas. Place six braised sweet- 
breads, prepared as for No. 602, in six small, buttered paper-boxes, having 
cooked fine herbs (No. 143) strewn around the bottom. Heat in the oven 
for five minutes ; then pour one tablespoonful of hot montglas sauce (No. 
213) over each. Serve on a dish with a folded napkin. 

616. Stewed Sweetbreads a la Catalan. Cut four blanched sweet- 
breads (No. 601) into slices ; put them in a sautoire with half a gill of 
sweet oil, one tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, two well- 
hashed shallots, and half a sliced green pepper. Reduce to a good golden 
color for about six minutes, and add two peeled tomatoes cut into pieces, 



244 THE TABLE. 



one gill of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), and a crushed clove of garlic. 
Cook for ten minutes ; arrange on a hot dish, and serve. 

617. Sweetbreads Broiled a la Colbert. Cut in two each of three fine 
blanched sweetbreads as in No. 601. Season them with one pinch of salt 
and half a pinch of pepper, and pour one tablespoonful of sweet oil over 
them ; mix them in well, and then broil them on a brisk fire for five min- 
utes on each side. Dress on a hot dish, and serve with half a pint of hot 
Colbert sauce (No. 190). 

618. Sweetbreads Braised a la Pompadour. Braise the sweetbreads 
exactly as for No. 602. Serve with half a pint of hot Bearnaise sauce 
(No. 166), two truffles cut in small square pieces; arrange six artichoke- 
bottoms on the sauce, place a sweetbread on each artichoke, with a thin 
slice of truffle on top of each, and serve. 

619. Sweetbread Croquettes, Perigueux Sauce. Prepare six sweet- 
bread croquettes (No. 276), and serve them on a dish with a folded nap- 
kin. Serve half a pint of Perigueux sauce (No. 191), separate. 

620. Sweetbread Croquettes with Peas. The same as for No. 619, 
adding half a pint of cooked peas, with a gill of Madeira sauce (No. 185), 
cooked together for two minutes. Pour it on the dish ; place the cro- 
quettes over it, and serve. 

621. Coquilles of Sweetbreads a la Dreux. Cut four blanched sweet- 
breads (No. 601) into small slices, and stew them in a saucepan with half 
an ounce of good butter, half a glassful of white wine, and three table- 
spoonfuls of mushroom liquor. Reduce them for ten minutes, then add 
a gill of veloute sauce (No. 152), six minced mushrooms, and two truffles 
cut the same. Season with half a tablespoonful of salt, a scant teaspoon- 
ful of pepper, and half a teaspoonful of nutmeg, and finish by adding two 
tablespoonfuls of good cream, or half an ounce of good butter. Fill six 
silver table-shells with this ; sprinkle them with fresh bread-crumbs ; 
pour a few drops of clarified butter over them, and put them in the baking 
oven. Brown slightly for six minutes longer, and serve on a hot dish 
with a folded napkin. 

622. Coquilles of Sweetbreads a la Cardinal. The same as for No. 
621, but instead of truffles use one ounce of smoked beef-tongue, and the 
same quantity of tomato sauce (No. 205), instead of the cream. 

623. Coquilles of Sweetbreads a la Reine. Cut four blanched sweet- 
breads (No. 601) in slices, and fry them in half an ounce of butter, half a 
glassful of white wine, and three tablespoonfuls of mushroom liquor. 
Season with half a tablespoonful of salt, a scant teaspoonful of pepper, 
and half a teaspoonful of nutmeg. Reduce for ten minutes, and moisten 
with one gill of Allemande sauce (No. 210), adding six sliced mushrooms, 
two sliced truffles, and twelve small quenelles of godiveau (No. 221). 
Finish the same as for No. 621. 

624. Veal Stew, Marengo. Cut three pounds of lean veal into pieces, 
and reduce them in a stewpan with one gill of oil, a cut-up onion or two 
shallots, and two ounces of salt pork, also cut up. Toss them occasion- 
ally, and when well browned after ten minutes, strew in two tablespoon- 



VEAL. 245 



fuls of flour, stirring well again. Moisten with one quart of white broth 
(No. 99), and one gill of tomato sauce (No. 205) ; season with a good 
tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper, adding a crushed clove 
of garlic, and a bouquet (No. 254). Cook for forty minutes, and serve 
with six croutons (No. 133) around the dish, and a little chopped parsley 
sprinkled over it. 

625. Teal Stew a la Provencjale. Cut three pounds of lean veal from 
the breast or shoulder into pieces, and place them in a stewpan with one 
ounce of butter, two tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, and one chopped onion. 
Cook them for ten minutes, stirring occasionally ; add two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, stir again, and moisten with one quart of white broth (No. 
xj9). Season with a heaped tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of 
pepper, and add six minced mushrooms, three crushed cloves of garlic, 
and a bouquet (No. 254). Cook for forty minutes, and serve on a hot dish, 
sprinkling a little chopped parsley over it. 

626. Veal Stew & la Grecque. Place two pounds of lean veal cut in 
pieces in a stewpan, with two ounces of butter and one cut-up onion, and 
reduce for ten minutes, adding two tablespoonfuls ol> flour. Moisten 
with one quart of white broth (No. 99), and one gill of tomato sauce (No. 
205). Add a heaped tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, and 
half a teaspoonful of nutmeg, a bouquet (No. 254), three white roots of 
table-celery, cut in two, and eighteen raw okras, pared whole. Cook 
for thirty minutes, and serve with the dish nicely decorated with the 
garnishing. 

627. Veal, Stewed a laPortugaise. The same as for No. 626, substitut- 
ing three stuffed tomatoes (No. 987), or plain, roasted tomatoes, and three 
timbales of cooked rice (No. 501) for the other garnishing. 

628. Veal, Stewed a la Solferino.. Reduce three pounds of pieces of 
veal cut from the breast or shoulder, in one ounce of butter, with six small 
onions. When cooked for ten minutes, add two tablespoonfuls of flour. 
Moisten with one quart of white broth (No. 99), and one gill of tomato 
sauce (No. 205), seasoning with one heaped tablespoonful of salt, and one 
teaspoonful of pepper. Stir well together until it reaches boiling-point; 
then add two carrots, and two turnips cut out with a vegetable-scoop, and 
a bouquet (No. 254). Cook again for forty minutes, and serve. 

Any kind of vegetables in season can be added. 

629. Veal, Stewed a. la Bourgeoise. Reduce in one ounce of butter 
three pounds of lean veal cut in pieces, with six small onions. After 
cooking ten minutes add two tablespoonfuls of flour, and moisten with 
one quart of white broth (No. 99). Stir we'll, and season with one 
heaped tablespoonful of salt* one teaspoonful of pepper, and half a glass- 
ful of red wine. Add two carrots cut in square pieces, one ounce of salt 
pork also cut in pieces, and a bouquet (No. 254). Cook for forty minutes 
longer, remove the bouquet, and serve. 

630. Veal, Stewed with Oyster-plant. The same as for No. 629, sub- 
stituting for the garnishing one bunch of well-cleaned, raw oyster-plant 
cut into pieces, forty minutes before serving. 



246 THE TABLE. 



631. Veal, Stewed with Peas. The same as for No. 629, substituting 
one pint of fresh peas for the oyster-plant thirty minutes before serving. 
Should green peas be out of season, use one pint of canned peas five 
minutes before serving. 

632. Veal, Stewed a la Chasseur. The same as for No. 629, substitut- 
ing for the garnishing twelve minced mushrooms, sixteen quenelles de 
godiveau (No. 221), and one clove of garlic three minutes before serving. 
Serve with six croutons (No. 133) around the dish. 

633. Tendron of Veal a la Nantaise. Pare nicely three pounds of the 
breast of veal; make a few incisions on the top, and tie it firmly together. 
Lay it in a deep sautoire with a piece of pork-skin cut up, a carrot, and a 
cut-up onion. Cover with a buttered paper, and when it begins to color 
after five minutes, moisten it slightly with a pint of water or broth. 
Baste as frequently as possible, and let it cook one hour. Then put it on 
a dish, strain the sauce over it, garnish with six stuffed lettuce-heads (No. 
953). Decorate with a tablespoonful of croutons all around the dish, and 
serve. 

634. Tendron of Veal with Sorrel. The same as for No. 633, sub- 
stituting one pint of cooked, hot sorrel (No. 974) on the dish, for the other 
garnishing. 

635. Tendron of Veal a la Morlaisienne. The same as for No. 633, 
substituting six small stuffed cabbages (No. 919) for the other garnishing. 

636. Tendron of Veal a la Chipolata. The same as for No. 633, pour- 
ing one pint of hot chipolata (No. 232) on the dish, and placing the tendron 
on top. 

637. CalPs Head, plain. Plunge a fine, fresh, white calf's head into 
hot water for one minute, lift it up, sharply rub it all over with a coarse 
towel, so as to remove all the remaining hairs. Carefully cut the flesh, 
starting from the centre of the head, right down to the nostrils. Then, with 
a very keen knife, bone it from the top to the base on both sides. Place 
in a saucepan two tablespoonfuls of flour, one gill of vinegar, one medium- 
sized, well-cleaned, sliced carrot, one sound peeled onion, eighteen whole 
peppers, and two pinches of salt. Pour in very gradually two quarts of 
cold water briskly stirring meanwhile until all added. Cut up half of the 
head into six equal pieces; add them to the broth, as also the other whole 
half. Let all cook together on a moderate fire for one hour and a half. 
Lift up the pieces and half the head, place the six pieces on a dry napkin. 
Have ready a hot dish with a folded napkin over it, neatly dress the six 
pieces on it, decorate with parsley-greens, and serve with any desired 
sauce. Place the remaining whole half in a stone jar, strain the broth 
over it, and keep in a cool place for any purpose required. 

For calf's brains, see No. 557. 

638. Calf's Head a la Cavoiir. Take half a boiled calf's head as for 
No. 637. Before serving pour a gill of hot tomato sauce (No. 205) over 
it, and surround it with twenty-four stoned and blanched olives, arranged 
in clusters, and six sippets of fried bread (No. 133). 

639. Calf's Head a la Poillette. The same as for No. 637, pouring half 



MUTTON LAMB. 247 



a pint of hot poulette sauce (No. 598) over it, and sprinkling it with half 
a tablespoonful of parsley. 

040. Calf's Head a la Vinaigrette. The same as for No. 637, laying a 
folded napkin on the dish, and arranging thereon the half of the head. 
Serve with parsley-leaves around the dish, and one pint of vinaigrette 
(No. 201), separately. 

641. Calf's Head en Tortue. Prepare and cut into six equal pieces, as 
for No. 637, half a calf's head. Place them on a hot dish, pour over it 
half a pint of hot tortue garnishing (No. 239), decorate with three pieces of 
heart-shaped, fried croutons (No. 133), a little fried parsley, and send 
to the table very hot. 

A pinch of salt represents 205 grains, or a tablespoonful. 

Half a pinch of pepper represents 38 grains, or a teaspoonful. 

A third of a pinch of nutmeg represents 13 grains, or half a teaspoonful. 



MUTTON LAMB. 



642. Mutton Chops a la Proven^ale. Flatten and pare neatly six fine, 
thick mutton chops, season them with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of 
pepper, oil them, slightly with sweet oil, and then either broil or cook them 
in a sautoire for two minutes on one side only, and lay them aside to get 
cold. The chops shoukLalways be cooked for two minutes as above men- 
tioned, after the garnishing has been prepared. 

Garnishing a la Proven^ale. Peel two small, sound, white onions, 
mince them very fine, place them in a pan with boiling water for five min- 
utes to prevent them from getting brown, drain well, place them in a 
sautoire with one ounce of good butter, and cook for -five minutes. Add 
a dash of white wine, a thin slice of garlic crushed with a spoon, half a 
spoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, and one gill of good bechamel sauce 
(No. 154). Season with half a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper. Stir 
all well until it comes to a boil, then put it away to cool. Divide the 
garnishing over the cooked side of the six chops about a quarter of an 
inch in thickness ; besprinkle with fresh bread-crumbs mixed with a little 
grated Parmesan cheese. Carefully place the chops in a well-buttered 
pan, and pour a little clarified butter over them. Place in a very hot oven 
for five minutes, or until of a good color, and serve with half a pint of hot 
veloute (No. 152). 

643. Mutton Chops, Breaded. Flatten six fine, thick mutton chops, 
pare nicely, and season with one tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful 
of pepper. Dip them in beaten egg, roll in fresh bread-crumbs, and 
place in a sautoire with one ounce of clarified butter. Cook four minutes 



248 THE TABLE. 



on each side, and serve with half a pint of any hot sauce or garnishing 
desired. 

644. Mutton Chops, Bretonne. Pare six nice mutton chops, season 
with a tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper, and pour a 
few drops of oil over each. Broil four minutes on each side. Arrange 
them on a dish, and serve with half a pint of puree of white beans (No. 
92), mingled with two tablespoonfuls of good, hot meat-glaze (No. 141). 

645. Mutton Chops a PAMcaine. Broil six mutton chops as for No. 
644, and serve with three stuffed egg-plants for garnishing (No. 909), and 
twelve sliced okras in clusters, in place of the other garnishing. 

646. Mutton Chops a la Napolitaine. The same as for No. 644, but 
substituting for the garnishing half a pint of hot Napolitaine (No. 195). 

647. Chops Soyer, with Potatoes. Take five pounds of saddle of 
mutton, cut and saw it into six pieces crosswise. Flatten, pare, and 
trim. Season with one tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper. 
Broil them for six minutes on each side, then place them on a hot dish, 
and serve with a garnishing of one pint, or the equivalent, of fried pota- 
toes (No. 993) around the dish. 

648. Leg of Mutton a la Portugaise. Take a medium-sized leg of 
mutton, cut off the shank-bone, trim well, and make an incision on the 
first joint. Season with two pinches of salt and half a pinch of pepper, 
rub half an ounce of butter over it, and roast for one hour in a pan, basting 
occasionally with the gravy, and turning it once in a while. Remove from 
the oven ; dress on a hot dish, and serve with three stuffed tomatoes (No. 
1023), and three timbales of cooked rice (No. 501), straining the gravy 
over. 

Plain roast leg of mutton is prepared the same, only served without 
any other garnishing than its own gravy. 

649. Leg 1 of Mutton a la Conde. Roast a leg of mutton the same as for 
No. 648, and serve it with half a pint of cooked red beans (No. 951) added 
to the gravy, either on the same dish as the leg, or in a separate bowl. 

650. Leg of Mutton, Bretonne. Proceed the same as for No. 648, 
but using half a pint of cooked white beans instead of the other garnish- 
ing, and adding one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, also one hashed and 
browned onion. 

651. Leg of Mutton, Caper Sauce. Pare a nice leg of mutton as for 
No. 648, put it on to boil in a stock-pot, filled with slightly salted cold 
water, add a bouquet (No. 254), and one cut-up carrot. Boil one hour 
and a quarter, and serve with half a pint of hot caper sauce, made by 
putting a pint of hot Hollandaise sauce (No. 160) into a saucepan with a 
light handful of capers, and heating thoroughly for five minutes without 
boiling. 

652. Mutton Hash a la Zingara. Chop up two onions, and fry them 
in a saucepan with one ounce of butter for three minutes, adding one and 
a half pounds of cooked and hashed mutton, also one-fourth the quantity 
of hashed potatoes. Season with a good tablespoonful of salt, the 
same of pepper. and half a saltspoonful of nutmeg. Also put in two cut- 



MUTTON LAMB. 249 



up, raw tomatoes, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and a crushed clove 
of garlic. Add a gill of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), and a gill of broth (No. 
99). Mix all together, and cook twenty minutes, then serve with a pinch 
of chopped parsley sprinkled over the dish. 

653. Mutton Hash an Gratin. Proceed as for No. 652, omitting 
the tomatoes and garlic. Place the hash on a baking-dish, sprinkle a little 
fresh bread-crumbs over, spread a very little butter on top, and put into 
the oven until of a good golden color, for which it will require from eight 
to ten minutes. 

654. Lamb's Feet a la Poulette. The same as directed for calf's feet 
(No. 598), adding half a pint of hot poulette sauce (No. 598). 

655. Mutton Stew, Fermiere. Put into a saucepan three pounds of 
breast or shoulder of mutton cut into square pieces, with one ounce of but- 
ter, and six small onions. Cook for ten minutes, or until of a good golden 
color. Add three tablespoonfuls of flour, mix well together, and moisten 
with three pints of light white broth or water, stirring continually while 
boiling. Season with a good tablespoonful of salt a teaspoonful of pep- 
per, and half a teaspoonful of nutmeg, adding two carrots and two 
turnips, cut in square pieces, a bouquet (No. 254), and one crushed 
clove of garlic. Cook on a moderate fire for thirty minutes ; put in half 
a pint of lima beans, and let the whole cook again for fifteen minutes. 
Skim off the fat well, remove the bouquet and serve. 

656. Mutton Stew ? Solferino. Proceed as directed for No. 655, adding 
half a pint of carrots and a like quantity of turnips, both cut with a vege- 
table-spoon ; cook these thirty minutes with the stew, and ten minutes 
before serving add half a pint of stewed tomatoes (No. 1027) instead of 
the lima beans. 

657. Mutton Stew a la Marseillaise. The same as for No. 655, but 
instead of the other garnishings, add one pint of stewed tomatoes (No. 
1027), four cloves of crushed garlic, two chopped onions, and twelve 
minced mushrooms. Let cook for thirty minutes, and serve with chopped 
parsley sprinkled over. 

658. Mutton Stew, Portugaise. Proceed the same as for No. 655, 
replacing the garnishing with three stuffed tomatoes (No. 1023), and three 
timbales of cooked rice (No. 501), nicely arranged around the dish. 

659. Mutton Stew with Potatoes. Exactly the same as for No. 655, 
replacing the garnishing with one pint of potatoes cut in quarters, (paring 
the edges a little), also six small onions. Let cook thirty minutes, and 
serve. 

660. Irish Mutton Stew. Cut in square pieces three pounds of 
mutton; wash well, drain, and put them in a saucepan, covering with fresh 
water. Let them come to a boil ; then remove into another pan. Clean 
the pieces well again, return them to the saucepan and cover them with 
boiling water. Place on the fire, seasoning with two tablespoonfuls of salt, 
a teaspoonful of pepper, and half a teaspoonful of nutmeg. Add two 
carrots, two turnips, all cut up, six small onions, and a bouquet (No. 
254). Let cook for twenty-five minutes, then add half a pint of potatoes 



250 THE TABLE. 



cut in quarters. Dilute half a cupful of flour with half a pint of water, 
strain it into the stew, stirring thoroughly, and cook again for twenty-five 
minutes. Remove the bouquet, thoroughly skimming it before serving. 

661. Mutton Kidneys en Brochette au Petit Sale Split twelve mutton 
kidneys in two, but do not separate the parts; remove the skin, place them 
in a deep plate, and season with a tablespoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful 
of pepper, adding two tablespoonfuls of sweet oil. Roll them well. Take 
six skewers, put a skewer through the two kidneys in the centre, and 
repeat the same for the others. Broil four minutes on each side. Arrange 
on a hot dish, pour a gill of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 145) over, and cover 
with six slices of broiled bacon (No. 754.) 

662. Mutton Kidneys Sautes, Madeira Sauce. Pare well twelve mut- 
ton kidneys and cut them into slices. Put into a frying-pan, with one 
ounce of butter, a tablespoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of pepper. Toss 
them well for six minutes. Add half a pint of Madeira wine sauce (No. 
185), squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, add another small piece of fresh 
butter, toss well again without boiling, and serve. 

663. Mutton Kidneys Sautes a 1'Italienne. Proceed as for No. 662, 
adding one gill of cooked fine herbs (No. 143); toss well for one minute, 
being careful not to let it boil. Avoid boiling any kidneys when being 
prepared in this way. All stewed mutton kidneys are prepared the same, 
adding either six minced mushrooms one minute before serving, or if 
truffles are preferred, add three medium-sized, minced truffles. 

664. Saddle of Mutton, Roasted, Plain. Pare and trim a fine saddle of 
mutton, weighing about six pounds (if possible). Lift off the upper skin, 
make one slight incision in the middle, also three on each side; tie it firmly 
together with three strings, so that it retains its shape, season it with a 
good pinch of salt, and it will then be ready to roast. Place the saddle in 
a roasting-pan, adding a gill of cold water; put it in a moderate oven, and 
let cook for forty-five minutes. Baste it frequently with its own gravy, 
and serve on a very hot dish. Skim off all the fat, strain the gravy into a 
sauce-bowl, and serve separately. 

N. B. Should the saddle be of heavier weight, say twelve to fourteen 
pounds, one hour and a quarter will be necessary to cook it. 

665. Saddle of Mutton, Sauce Colbert. Proceed exactly the same as 
for No. 664, serving half a pint of Colbert sauce (No. 190) in a bowl. 

666. Saddle of Mutton, Currant Jelly. Same as directed for No. 664 
serving with half a pint of hot jelly sauce (No. 884), or with a little cur- 
rant jelly, separately. 

667. Saddle of Mutton, Sauce Poivrade. Proceed the same as for 
No. 664, serving with half a pint of poivrade sauce, separately (No. 194). 

668. Saddle of Mutton, Londonderry Sauce. The same as for 
No. 664, serving with half a pint of hot Londonderry sauce (No. 880). 

669. Saddle of Mutton a la Sevi^ne Exactly the same as for No. 
664, only serving with six bouchees a la Sevigne (No. 588). 

670. Saddle of Mutton a la Duchesse. Proceed as for No. 664, 
serving with six potatoes Duchesse (No. 1006). 



MUTTON LAMB. 25! 



671. Saddle of Mutton with Potatoes. Served exactly the same as 
for No. 664, only adding one pint of potatoes chateau (No. 1009). 

672. Lamb Fries a la Diable. Skin well six medium-sized lamb fries; 
cut each into three slices and put them into a bowl. Season with a table- 
spoonful of salt, a very little cayenne pepper, the juice of half a lemon, 
one tablespoonful of sweet oil, and a teaspoonful of ground mustard 
diluted in a tablespoonful of Parisian sauce. Mix all well together, roll 
them in flour, and broil five minutes on each side. Arrange them on a 
hot dish garnished with six slices of lemon, and serve with a hot sauce a 
la Diable (No. 198), separately. 

Lamb chops can be prepared the same way. Lamb fries, as above pre- 
pared, should be immediately served as soon as cooked. 

673. Lainb Fries, Tomato Sauce. Same as for No. 672, only dipping 
the slices in beaten egg instead of mustard, and then in rasped bread-crust. 
Fry them in hot fat for six minutes, and serve on a hot dish on a folded 
napkin, with half a pint of hot tomato sauce (No. 205), separately. 

Lamb fries with Tartare sauce are prepared the same way, only serving 
with half a pint of Tartare sauce (No. 207), in a separate bowl. 

674. Brochette of Lamb a la Dumas. Take a raw leg of lamb weigh- 
ing about three pounds; remove the bone and pare off the skin. Then cut 
into six square pieces of equal size. Put them in a vessel with two very 
finely chopped shallots, one teaspoonful of chopped chives, one teaspoon- 
ful of parsley, and a crushed clove of garlic. Add the juice of half a 
lemon, a tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, and half a tea- 
spoonful of nutmeg. Let them steep for about two hours, stirring at 
times; then take the pieces out, run a skewer through the centre of the 
six pieces, interlarding them with pieces of salt pork; dip them in bread- 
crumbs and broil for four minutes on each side. Serve with half a pint of 
hot Colbert sauce (No. 190), poured on the serving-dish, and place the 
brochettes over, arranging them nicely. 

675. Ballotin of Lamb with Peas. Bone a shoulder of spring lamb 
weighing about two and a half pounds. Let the end bone remain for a 
handle. Season with half a tablespoonful of salt, and the same quantity of 
pepper. Sew it up with a needle, fasten it firmly, and boil two or three 
minutes in the stock-pot. After letting it cool, lard the top with a larding 
needle as for a fricandeau, and place it in a saucepan with a piece of lard- 
skin, a carrot and an onion cut in slices. Brown slightly for six minutes; 
then moisten with a pint of broth (No. 99) and half a pint of Espagnole 
sauce (No. 157); cook in the oven forty-five minutes, take it out, and strain 
the sauce over a pint of hot, boiled, green peas (No. 978). Cook two 
minutes longer. Place the garnishing on a hot dish; remove the strings 
of the ballotin; lay it on the top of the garnishing, and serve. 

676. Curry of Lamb, with Asparag-us4ops. Have three pounds of 
shoulder of lamb cut into pieces about two inches square. Wash well in 
fresh water, drain, put into a saucepan, and cover with fresh water. Let 
it come to a boil, then strain through a colander, and wash again in 
water. Place the pieces in a saucepan, covering them with boiling water; 



252 THE TABLE. 



season with two tablespoonfuls of salt, one teaspoonful of pepper, six 
small onions, and a bouquet (No. 254). Put the lid on, and cook forty 
minutes. Then strain off the liquor into another saucepan containing 
half a pint of roux blanc (No. 135), stirring well until it boils, and then let 
it stand on the corner of the stove. Break into a separate bowl four egg 
yolks with the juice of half a lemon, beaten well together. Add this to 
the sauce, dropping it in little by little, and stirring continually. Pour 
all over the lamb, and add one pint of cooked asparagus-tops, but be 
careful not to let it boil again. Serve with a border of hot, boiled rice 
all around the dish. 

677. Curry of Lamb h 1'Indienne Proceed exactly as for No. 676, 
only adding three tablespoonfuls of curry diluted in half a cupful of 
water. Instead of the asparagus-tops, use a border of hot, cooked rice, 
carefully arranged around the dish. Lay the curry of lamb on top and 
serve. 

678. Curry of Lamb a la Creole. The same as for No. 676, adding, 
ten minutes before serving, one gill of tomatoes cut in pieces, and a green 
pepper cut into small pieces, serving with a border of hot, cooked rice 
around the dish. 

679. Croquettes of Lamb h la Patti. Prepare six lamb croquettes as 
for No. 276, adding half a pint of Patti garnishing (No. 245) laid on the 
dish, and arranging the croquettes on top. Pour over it a little meat- 
glaze (No. 141). 

680. Croustades of Kidneys, with Mushrooms. Prepare six crous- 
tades (No. 264), and fill them with kidneys sautes au Madere (No. 662). 

681. Lamb Chops a la Signora. Pare six fine lamb chops, and split 
them through the centre. Fill the insides with a very fine salpicon (No. 
256); season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper. Close 
together, and dip in beaten egg, then in fresh bread-crumbs. Fry them 
for four minutes on each side in two ounces of clarified butter in a sautoire, 
and serve with a gill of hot Montglas sauce (No. 213) after arranging a 
curled paper at the end of each chop. 

682. Lamb Chops a la Robinson. Pare six lamb chops, flatten 
nicely, and season with one pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper. 
Place them in a sautoire with one ounce of butter, and fry for three minutes 
on each side. Serve with a pint of hot Robinson garnishing (No. 253) on 
the dish, and arrange the chops nicely over it, or any other garnishing 
desired. 

683. Lamb Chops, Maison d'Or. Pare neatly six lamb chops, make 
an incision in each one, and insert therein a slice of truffle. Season 
with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper. Dip the chops in beaten 
egg and then in fresh bread-crumbs. Fry them in a sautoire with two 
ounces of clarified butter for four minutes on each side, and serve with 
six heart-shaped pieces of fried bread, each one covered with some pate- 
de-foie-gras, and a gill of hot Madeira wine sauce (No. 185). Arrange a 
curled paper on the end of each chop. 

684* Lamb Chops a la Clichy. Pare nicely and flatten six lamb chops; 



MUTTON LA MB. 253 



season with one pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper. Fry slightly in 
a sautoire with one ounce of butter for one minute on each side; then let 
them cool. Cover the surfaces with chicken forcemeat (No. 226), and 
wrap them in crepinette (a skin found in the stomach of the pig); dip in 
beaten egg, then in fresh bread-crumbs, and cook in a sautoire, with two 
ounces of butter for four miuutes on each side. Arrange a nice paper 
curl at each end of the chops, and serve with half a pint of hot champagne 
sauce (No. 204) on the dish, and the chops over it. 

685. Lamb Chops a la Maintenon. Take six well-pared and flattened 
lamb chops. Season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper; put 
into a sautoire with one ounce of butter, and fry on one side only for 
one minute. Cover the cooked side with a mellow chicken croquette 
preparation (No. 276), also a little chicken forcemeat (No. 226) on top. 
Besprinkle with one very finely chopped truffle. Place the chops on a 
well-buttered baking-pan, and put them in a slow oven to cook for four 
minutes. Put a curled paper on the end of each chop, and serve with 
half a pint of hot, clear veloute (No. 152) on the dish, and the chops laid 
over it. 

686. Lamb Chops a la Villeroi. Pare neatly six chops, flatten them 
well, and season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper. Make 
an incision in each chop, and garnish the inside with a slice of truffle, 
previously dipped in demi-glace (No. 185); then dip the chops in beaten 
egg, roll them in fresh bread-crumbs, and put into a sautoire with two 
ounces of butter, and fry four minutes on each side. Pour half a pint of 
hot Perigueux sauce (No. 191) on the dish, arrange the chops over, with 
curled paper on the ends, and serve. 

687. Lamb Chops a la Massena. Trim neatly, flatten, and season 
with half a pinch each of salt and pepper, six lamb chops. Put them into 
a sautoire with one ounce of butter, and fry on one side only for one 
minute. Let them cool, and then fill the cooked centres with a little pate- 
de-foie-gras. Take six pieces of fried bread the size of the chop, cut out 
the middles with a bread-cutter, fill in the space with pate-de-foie-gras, and 
lay it on the cooked side of the chops. Garnish all around with chicken 
forcemeat a la creme (No. 225), forced through a paper cornet. Place 
them on a buttered baking-sheet, and put them into a slow oven. Cook 
for seven minutes. Prepare a pint of hot Madeira sauce (No. 185), pour 
it on a hot dish, arrange the chops nicely on top, with curled papers on 
the ends, and serve. 

688. Minced Lamb k PAnglaise. Chop two onions fine, and fry in a 
saucepan with two ounces of butter for five minutes. Add two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, stirring well for two minutes. Moisten with a pint of 
broth (No. 99), and two tablespoonfuls of Parisian sauce, a bouquet (No. 
254), and season with a tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, and 
half a teaspoonful of nutmeg. Stir until it comes to a boil. Then cut 
two pounds of cooked lamb in small pieces, either from the shoulder or 
leg, mince finely, and add to the sauce. Cook twenty-five minutes, and 
serve with chopped parsley sprinkled over. 



254 THE -TABLE. 



689. Epigrammes of Lamb, Macedoine. Take two breasts of lamb, 
tie them and put them on to boil in the soup-stock for forty-five minutes. 
Drain them well, then extract all the bones, and press down with a heavy 
weight on top. When thoroughly cold, cut each breast into three heart- 
shaped pieces, dip them in oil or fat, seasoning with a tablespoonful of 
salt and a teaspoonful of pepper. Roll in fresh bread-crumbs, and broil 
on a slow fire for four minutes on each side. Take six broiled, breaded 
lamb chops, prepared and cooked exactly the same, and serve with half a 
pint of hot Macedoine (No. 1032) or any other garnishing that may be 
required, arranging the breasts and chops over the garnishing. 

690. Epigrammes of Lamb a. la Chicoree. Proceed exactly the same 
as for No. 689, only adding half a pint of hot chicory with a little gravy 
(No. 934), instead of the other garnishing, and serve the same. 

691. Epigrammes of Lamb a la Louisiannaise. The same as for No. 
689, only serving with one pint of fried sweet potatoes (No. 993) around 
the dish, and a gill of hot Madeira wine sauce (No. 185). 

692. Epigrammes of Lamb a la Soubise. The same as for No. 689, 
serving with half a pint of hot Soubise (No. 250) and basting with a little 
meat-glaze (No. 141). 

693. Shoulder of Lamb a PAMcaine. Take a shoulder of lamb of 
about three pounds, season with one pinch of salt and one pinch of pep- 
per, and tie it up well. Place in a saucepan with one sliced onion, and 
one sliced carrot, and brown for six minutes. Moisten with one pint of 
broth (No. 99), and a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151). Let cook for 
forty-five minutes. Skim all the fat from the gravy, and remove the 
shoulder to a hot dish and untie it. Garnish the dish with three stuffed 
egg-plants (No. 909), and half a pint of cooked gumbo (No. 1030). Strain 
the gravy over the shoulder, and serve. 

694. Shoulder of Lamb, Puree Normande. Proceed exactly the same 
as for No. 693, only substituting one pint of hot Normande (No. 175) for 
the other garnishing. 

695. Shoulder of Lamb, with Stuffed Tomatoes. The same as for 
No. 693, placing six stuffed tomatoes (No. 1023) around the dish before 
serving. 

696. Shoulder of Lamb, Jardiniere. Proceed as directed in No. 693, 
only serving with one pint of hot Jardiniere (No. 1033). 

697. Shoulder of Lamb, Stuffed a la Macedoine. Prepare a shoulder 
the same as for No. 693, but before tying it, fill the interior with American 
forcemeat (No. 229); let cook the same, and serve with one pint of hot 
Macedoine (No. 1032). 

698. Shoulder of Lamb a la Bonennalse. Braise a shoulder of lamb 
as for No. 693, cut three medium-sized turnips the shape of a large clove 
of garlic, and put them in a sautoire, with an ounce of butter, and a tea- 
spoonful of powdered sugar on top. Place it in the oven, and leave it in 
until they become thoroughly brown, tossing the pan frequently to pre- 
vent burning. Pour the gravy from the meat over the turnips, dish up 
the shoulder, arrange the turnips around and serve. 



M U T TON LA MB. 255 



699. Shoulder of Lamb a la Flamande. The same as for No. 693, 
serving for garnishing half a pint of cooked carrots, half a pint of cooked 
turnips, and half a pint of cooked red cabbage, nicely arranged in clusters 
around the dish. 

700. Hashed Lamb a la Polonaise. Fry two chopped onions in a 
saucepan with an ounce of butter; add half a pound of cooked, hashed 
lamb to one pint of cooked, hashed potatoes (No. 1002). Season with a 
good tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, and half a teaspoonful 
of nutmeg. Moisten with half a pint of broth, and cook for ten minutes. 
Place the hash on a hot dish, and arrange six poached eggs (No. 404) on 
top. Serve with chopped parsley sprinkled over. 

701. Haricot or Ragout of Lamb a la Providence. Take a fine breast 
or a shoulder of lamb weighing about three pounds, cut it into equal 
square pieces, and fry them in a saucepan with an ounce of butter or fat. 
Add six small, sound, peeled onions, and when browned, after about ten 
minutes, dredge in three tablespoonfuls of flour, stirring well for two 
minutes. Moisten with three pints of water or white broth ; stir well, 
adding two pinches of salt, one pinch of pepper, two crushed cloves of 
sound garlic, and a bouquet (No. 254). Let cook for forty-five minutes. 
Two minutes after it begins to boil, thoroughly skim off the scum on the 
surface. Remove the bouquet and pour the ragout on a hot dish. Arrange 
half a pint of flageolets, plunged for half a minute into boiling water and 
well drained, or cooked lima beans, on one side of the dish, and the same 
quantity of cooked carrots, cut in quarters, on the other, and then serve. 

702. Breast of Lamb, Jardiniere. Boil three medium-sized breasts 
of lamb for fifty minutes in the stock-pot, then the bones will be detached. 
Take them out, put the meat under a heavy weight, and let it thoroughly 
cool; then pare neatly. Cut each breast in two, and place on a dish. 
Season them with a good tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pep- 
per, and immerse them in two tablespoonfuls of oil. Roll them in fresh 
bread-crumbs, and broil them for four minutes on each side. Serve them 
with one pint of hot Jardiniere garnishing (No. 1033) on the dish, and the 
breasts nicely arranged over it. 

703. Stewed Lamb and Oyster-plant. As directed for ragout of 
lamb (No. 701); substituting for garnishing one bunch of thoroughly 
scraped and well-washed oyster-plant, cut into medium-sized pieces, and 
cooked with the stew. 

704. Stewed Lamb a la Francaise. The same as for No. 701; adding 
half a pint of carrots, half a pint of turnips, cooked with the lamb, and 
half an hour before serving putting in a pint of pared, small, whole, raw 
potatoes. 

705. Stewed Lamb and Lima Beans. Proceed as directed for No. 
701, replacing the garnishing by one pint of cooked lima beans, added five 
minutes before serving. 

706. Stewed Lamb, with Peas. The same as for No. 701, only suK 

stituting for the garnishing one pint of green peas half an hour before 
the stew is ready or, if canned peas, five minutes before serving. 



256 THE TABLE. 



707. Stewed Lamb and Flageolets. Proceed as directed for No. 701, 
only using instead of the garnishing a pint of well-soaked and drained 
flageolets, five minutes before serving. 

708. Stewed Lamb a la Parisienne. The same as for No. 701, using 
a garnishing of one pint of raw Parisian potatoes (No. 986) half an hour 
before serving. 

709. Stewed Lamb and String Beans. The same as for No. 701, 
only substituting for garnishing, one pint of pared and cleaned string- 
beans half an hour before serving. 

710. Stewed Lamb Louisiannaise. Proceed exactly as for No. 701, 
substituting for garnishing one pint of fried sweet potatoes, when serv- 
ing, all around the dish. 

711. Stewed Lamb a la Creole. The same as for No. 701, adding for 
garnishing two cut-up tomatoes, one cut-up green pepper, and one chopped 
onion. Serve with a bouquet of cooked rice for a garnishing around 
the dish. 

712. Lamb's Kidneys, Colbert Sauce. Split open twelve kidneys, 
skin them well, and place on a dish with a tablespoonful of sweet 
oil. Season with a tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, and 
half a teaspoonful of nutmeg. Take six silver skewers (if none on hand, 
use wooden ones), run each skewer through the centre of two kidneys 
(which should never become detached), roll them in fresh bread-crumbs, 
and put them to broil on a moderate fire for four minutes on each side. 
Place them on a very hot dish on which has been previously poured a 
pint of hot Colbert sauce (No. 190), and send to the table very hot. 

713. Lamb's Kidneys, with Bacon. Proceed as for No. 712, but do 
not roll them in bread-crumbs, and serve them with six slices of broiled 
bacon (No. 754) and a gill of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 145). 

714. Stewed Kidneys with Cepes. Pare, trim, and skin well twelve 
kidneys. Cut them into slices, and cook for five minutes in a frying-pan 
with an ounce of clarified butter, a tablespoonful of salt, and a teaspoon- 
ful of pepper. Brown well ; then add half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 
151), also four cepes cut into pieces. Warm without boiling, add the 
juice of half a lemon, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and serve. 

All stewed kidneys are prepared the same way, with any other garnish- 
ing required. 

715. Lamb's Kidneys a la Diable. Skin and pare well twelve kidneys, 
split them in two without separating the parts, and run the skewers 
through as for No. 712. Broil them slightly for one minute on each side. 
Mix together in a dish one teaspoonful of English mustard with two 
tablespoonfuls of Parisian sauce, the third of a teaspoonful of cayenne 
pepper, a teaspoonful of salt, and a like quantity of mignonette pepper. 
Roll the kidneys well in this, then in bread-crumbs, and finish by broiling 
them once more for three minutes on each side. Serve with a gill of 
maitre d'hotel butter (No. 145) poured over the kidneys. 

716. Lamb Steak with Puree of Peas. Cut and saw off six small 
steaks from a tender leg of lamb ; pare and trim them nicely, flatten, and 



PORK. 257 



season with a good tablespoonfulof salt sprinkled over, and a teaspoonful 
of pepper. Put a tablespoonful of sweet oil on a dish, roll the steaks 
well in it, then broil them for five minutes on each side. Place on a hot 
serving-dish half a pint of hot puree of peas (No. 49) ; arrange the steaks 
over, and serve. 

The steaks can be served with any other garnishing required. 

717. Lamb Steak, Sauce Piquante. The same as for No. 716, serv- 
ing for garnishing half a pint of hot piquante sauce (No. 203). 

718. Lamb Steak a 1'Americaine. Proceed as for No. 716, and serve 
the lamb steaks with six small pieces of fried hominy (No. 1035), also one 
gill of hot Madeira sauce (No. 185) on the dish, and the steaks arranged 
over, with six slices of broiled bacon over them. 

A pinch of salt represents 205 grains, or a tablespoonful. 

Half a pinch of pepper represents 38 grains, or a teaspoonful. 

A third of a pinch of nutmeg represents 13 grains, or half a teaspoonful. 



PORK. 



719. Black Sausage, Mashed Potatoes. Take six black sausages (or 
blood pudding) ; make four light incisions on each side of them with a 
knife, then broil them for five minutes on each side.- Neatly arrange a 
pint of mashed potatoes (No. 998) on a hot dish ; nicely dress the sausages 
over, and serve. They also may be baked in a pan in the hot oven for 
ten minutes. 

720. Suckling Pig, Apple Sauce. Thoroughly clean the interior of a 
small, tender, suckling pig (reserving the. liver); drain it well. Season the 
interior with two pinches of salt, one good pinch of pepper, and the third 
of a pinch of grated nutmeg. Chop up the liver very fine, and fry it in a 
saucepan, with half an ounce of butter, for five minutes. Stuff it with Amer- 
ican forcemeat (No. 229), then sew up the aperture with a kitchen-needle. 
Have a roasting-pan ready, sprinkle into it half a cupful of cold water, 
then lay in the pig, so that it rests on its four legs. Completely cover all 
around with a buttered paper, then put it into a moderate oven, and let 
cook for two hours; baste it frequently, while cooking, with its own gravy. 
Remove it to a hot dish, untie, skim the fat from the gravy, and strain the 
lean part of it over the pig. Serve with a pint of hot apple sauce (No. 
168) in a separate bowl. 

721. Boiled Ham, plain. Select a nice, small, lean ham of about seven 
pounds, and steep it in cold water during a whole night ; take it out, 
lay it on a board or table, dry it thoroughly in a cloth, then put it in 
a saucepan and cover it with cold water. Let it boil for two hours, then 
remove it from its stock, lift off the upper skin, trim it neatly, and 

17 



258 THE TABLE. 



ornament artistically the large end bone with a pretty paper ruffle, then 
serve it with any kind of sauce required for garnishing. 

722. Cold Boiled Ham, for family use. Proceed the same as for No. 
721, but let the ham be thoroughly cooled off before serving. 

723. Roast Ham, Champagne Sauce, Boil a ham exactly as directed 
for No. 721, making a few lengthwise incisions on the surface. Sprinkle 
the top with a little powdered sugar; arrange it in a roasting-pan, then 
place it in a slow oven for fifteen minutes. Serve with half a pint of 
champagne sauce (No. 204). 

724. Roast Ham, with Corn a la Creme. The same as for No. 723, 
serving with it one pint of hot corn a la creme (No. 963). 

725. Roast Ham, with Spinach. Proceed as for No. 723, only serving 
with one pint of cooked hot spinach au jus (No. 943). 

726. Pig's Cheek, with Spinach. Take two lean, smoked pig's cheeks; 
let them soak in cold water over night, then drain them well, and put 
them in a saucepan, covering them with cold water. Let cook for one 
hour and three-quarters; then lay them on a dish, drain well again, and 
lift off the rind and skin which adheres to the tongue, then remove the 
bones, and place the cheeks on a hot serving-dish. Garnish with one pint 
of hot spinach au jus (No. 943); arrange the .cheeks nicely on top, and 
serve. 

727. Pig's Feet a, la St. Hubert. Split three good-sized, boiled pig's 
feet in two, place them on a deep dish, season with a pinch of salt, half a 
pinch of pepper, and one tablespoonful of oil. Roll them well together, 
and lay them in fresh bread-crumbs. Put them to broil for four minutes 
on each side, and then serve with half a pint of hot piquante sauce (No. 
203), to which has been added ateaspoonful of diluted mustard. Pour the 
sauce on the dish, and arrange the feet nicely upon it. 

728. Pig's Feet, Sauce Robert. Exactly the same as for No. 727, 
serving with half a pint of hot Robert sauce (No. 192). 

729. Pig's Feet, Sauce Piquante. The same as for No. 727, serving 
with half a pint of hot piquante sauce (No. 203), omitting the mustard. 

730. Pig's Feet, New York Style. The same as for No. 727, serving 
them on six pieces of toast, with a gill of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 145) 
over the feet. 

Boston Style. Dip them in frying batter, then fry in a pan with two 
ounces of butter on a moderate fire for ten minutes. Dress them on a hot 
dish with a folded napkin, and serve with any sauce desired separately. 

731. Pig's Feet a la Poulette. Put three boiled pig's feet, cut in two, 
into a saucepan with half an ounce of butter, let simmer for five minutes, 
add a pint of poulette sauce (No. 598); heat without boiling for five min- 
utes, then serve with a little chopped parsley sprinkled over. 

732. Stuffed Pig's Feet a la Perigueux. To one and a half pounds 
of boned turkey forcemeat (No. 813) add two minced truffles and half a 
glassful of Madeira wine; mix well together in a bowl. Spread six pieces 
of crepinette a skin found in the stomach of the pig), the size of the hand, 
on the table. Lay on each one a piece of forcemeat the size of an egg; spread 



PORK:. 259 



it well, and lay one-half of a boned pig's foot on top (No. 734). Cover with 
another light layer of forcemeat, and finish each with three thin slices of 
truffles. Cover the crepinettes so that they get the form of envelopes ; 
fold them up, and dip one after the other in beaten egg, then in fresh 
bread-crumbs, and cook in a sautoire with two ounces of clarified butter. 
Place a heavy weight on top of the feet, let cook on a slow fire for twelve 
minutes on each side, and serve with half a pint of hot Perigueux sauce 
(No. 191) on the dish, and the pig's feet on top. 

733. Stuffed Pig's Feet, Madeira Sauce. Exactly the same as for 
the above, only serving with half a pint of hot Madeira sauce (No. 185) in 
place of the other. 

734. Boned Pig's Feet. Take three boiled feet, cut them in two, put 
them into boiling water for four minutes, then take them out. Drain well, 
bone them, then put the flesh into a dry, clean cloth, and wipe them 
thoroughly. 

735. Sausages, with White Wine. Brown a very finely chopped 
onion in a sautoire with one ounce of butter. Moisten with half a glass- 
ful of white wine, and add two country sausages; prick them slightly with 
a fork, then cover the pan, and let cook for five minutes. !^ Put in half a 
pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), cook again for five minutes, and serve 
with a little chopped parsley sprinkled over. 

736. Sausages a 1'Anglaise. Place twelve country sausages on a 
baking-tin ; prick them a little, and separate them by twelve slices of 
bread cut the same height as the sausages. Bake in the oven for twelve 
minutes, baste them occasionally with their own juice, and serve with 
half a pint of hot Madeira sauce (No. 185) in a separate bowl. 

737. Sausages a 1'Italienne. The same as for No. 735, adding six 
minced mushrooms to the sauce five minutes before serving. 

738. Sausages a la Bourguignonne. Take twelve country sausages, 
prick them with a fork, and place them in a baking-dish. Put them in 
the oven, and let cook for ten minutes ; garnish a hot dish with a pint of 
hot puree of red beans (No. 951); and arrange the sausages on top, then 
serve. 

739. Sausages, with Cabbage. Procure a medium-sized white cab- 
bage ; remove all the green leaves, and cut it into four square parts, sup- 
pressing the centre stalks. Wash thoroughly in cold water, then drain 
well in a cloth ; when finished cut them into small pieces, and put them 
into boiling, salted water for five minutes. Remove into cold water to let 
it cool off moderately; take it out, drain in a colander, and put the cabbage 
into a saucepan with a gill of fat from the soup-stock, or an ounce of 
butter. Season with a good pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, also 
a whole medium-sized onion, and a carrot cut into four pieces. Put on 
the lid of the saucepan, remove to a moderate fire, and let cook for thirty 
minutes. Take twelve country sausages, prick them with a fork, add 
them to the cabbage, and let all cook together for twelve minutes.- Dress 
the cabbage on a hot dish, and decorate with the sausages and carrots on 
top. Serve very hot. 



26O THE TABLE. 



740. Sausages au Gastronome. Prick twelve nice, lean sausages 
with a fork ; put them in a tin baking-dish, and cook them for six minutes 
in the oven. Add two raw eggs to a pint and a half of mashed potatoes, 
with three tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan or Swiss cheese, mix well 
together, and lay it on a baking-dish. Place the sausages on top, put it 
in the oven, and let cook for six minutes. When finished take them out, 
and serve on a dish with half a gill of demi-glace (No. 185) thrown over. 

741. Pork Tenderloin. Procure three good-sized pork tenderloins, 
pare them neatly, remove the sinews, and cut each fillet lengthwise in two 
without detaching ; place in a sautoire with a tablespoonful of butter. 
Season them one hour before cooking with two pinches of salt and one 
pinch of pepper, and let them cook on the stove for six minutes on each 
side. Arrange them on a hot serving-dish', and skim the fat from the sur- 
face of the gravy. Add to the lean part half a cupful of broth (No. 99), 
letting it come to a boil, and mixing well with a spoon. Strain the gravy 
over the fillets, and serve. Any sauce or garnishing desired may be add- 
ed to the tenderloins. 

742. Pork Andouillettes. Procure one and a half pounds of andouil- 
lettes; cut them into six pieces, and make four slight incisions on each side. 
Place them in a tin baking-dish, and put them in the oven to cook for 
eight minutes. Remove them to a hot serving-dish, previously plac- 
ing thereon a pint of mashed potatoes, or a pint of hot puree of peas, and 
place the andouillettes, nicely arranged, on lop. 

743. Pork Chops, Plain. Take six thick pork chops, pare and flatten 
them nicely, then season with a pinch of salt and a pinch of pepper one 
hour before using them. Put them in a sautoire with one ounce of butter, 
and let cook on the stove for six minutes on each side. Arrange the chops 
on a hot dish, skim off the fat from the gravy, and add half a cupful of 
broth to the lean part. Let come to a boil, strain over the chops, and 
serve. 

744. Pork Chops, Broiled. These are to be prepared exactly the same 
as for No. 743, only to the seasoning add one tablespoonful of sweet oil, 
and roll in the chops well. Put them to broil for six minutes on each 
side, then arrange them on a hot dish, and serve with a gill of hot maitre 
d'hotel butter (No. 145), well spread over the chops. 

745. Pork Chops, Piquante Sauce. Proceed exactly as for No. 743, 
serving with half a pint of hot piquante sauce over the chops (No. 203). 

746. Pork Chops, Sauce Robert. Same as for No. 743, sending them 
to the table with half a pint of hot Robert sauce (No. 192) poured over 
the chops. 

747. Pork Chops a la Diable. The same as for No. 743, but serving 
with half a pint of sauce a la Diable (No. 198) over the chops. 

748. Pork Chops, Apple Sauce. Proceed as for No. 743, serving with 
one pint of hot apple sauce (No. 168) in a separate bowl. 

749. Pork Chops a la Puree de Pois. The same as for No. 743, pour- 
ing half a pint of hot puree of peas on the dish, and placing the chops 



PORK. 26l 



750. Pork Chops with Puree of Potatoes. Exactly the same as for 
No. 743, serving with a pint of puree of hot potatoes (No. 998) on the 
dish, and the chops nicely arranged over. 

751. Roasted Fresh Pork. Take three pounds of fresh loin of pork; 
season two hours before needed with two good pinches of salt and one 
good pinch. of pepper, well distributed. Put it into a roasting-pan with 
half a cupful of water, place it in the oven, and let roast for fully one and 
a half hours, being careful to baste it frequently with its own gravy. 
Remove it to a hot dish, skim the fat from the gravy, strain the lean 
part over the roast, and serve. 

752. Pork and Beans. Take a pint of white dry beans, soak them in 
fresh water for six hours, then drain through a colander. Place them in 
a saucepan, or preferably an earthen dish ; season with one small pinch of 
salt, half a pinch of pepper, one tablespoonful of either syrup or brown 
sugar, and one medium-sized carrot cut in two. Take a pound and a half 
of freshened salt pork (previously well- washed in fresh water), make four 
incisions on each side, and place it in the vessel with the beans ; cover 
with the lid, and let cook all together, either on the stove or in the oven, for 
two hours and a half. If it should get too dry, moisten with a little 
broth. It will now be ready to serve. Place the garnishing on a hot 
dish, and arrange the pork on top ; the whole can be returned again to the 
oven with a little powdered sugar sprinkled over the top, leaving it 
in five minutes to give it a golden color; then serve. 

753. How to Prepare Ham for Broiling and Frying-. Procure a fine, 
sound, smoked ham, weighing about twelve to thirteen pounds, select- 
ing it as lean as possible. With a sharp knife, begin cutting it care- 
fully at the end of the shank bone, between the bone and the string used 
for hanging purposes, coming down on to the knuckle ; follow the edge 
of the bone, until the small edge-bone is fully reached, then make a 
straight cross-cut from the bone, so as to separate it entirely. When this 
is accomplished, put the bone part aside for soup, garnishing, scrambled 
eggs, sauces, or any other needful purposes. Keep the ham hung up in 
a dry place in a moderate temperature. 

For broiling and frying. Cut from the boneless part the necessary 
number of slices desired to be used each time, as thin as possible, always 
beginning from the side of the edge-bone. Pare off the skin neatly from 
the slices, and arrange them on the broiler, then broil them for two min- 
utes on each side; take from off the fire, dress them on a hot dish, and 
send to the table. 

By preparing the ham as described in the above, it will always be 
crisp and enjoyable. When frying, four minutes will be sufficient in very 
hot fat. 

754. How to Prepare English Breakfast Bacon. Procure a fine, fresh 
English breakfast bacon, and with a keen knife cut the under bones off; 
pare both edges neatly, also the end (the opposite side to the string which 
hangs it up). With the use of the same sharp knife, cut the necessary 
number of slices desired for immediate use, and no more. Thin slices are 



262 THE TABLE. 



always preferable, so that the bacon, whether broiled or fried, will be 
crispy and tasty. When cutting off the slices be careful to avoid detach- 
ing them from the skin, also cut them crosswise, but never lengthwise. 
Arrange the slices on the broiler, and broil on a moderate fire for two 
minutes on each side ; dress the crispy slices on a hot dish, and serve 
immediately. 

Four minutes will suffice for frying. See that the bacon is kept hang- 
ing by the string in a dry, cool place, but never put it on the ice. 

A pinch of salt represents 205 grains, or a tablespoonful. 

Half a pinch of pepper represents 38 grains, or a teaspoonful. 

A third of a pinch of nutmeg represents 13 grains, or half a teaspoonful. 



POULTRY. 



755. Chicken Roasted, Plain. Singe, draw, wipe nicely, and truss a 
fine large chicken weighing three pounds. Cover it with a thin slice of 
salt fat pork, and place it in a roasting-pan with two tablespoonfuls of 
broth. Spread a very little butter over the breast, sprinkle on half a 
pinch of salt, and put it in the oven to cook for fifty minutes. Baste it 
frequently, and arrange it on a hot dish, untie, and decorate with a little 
watercress. Strain the gravy into a sauce-bowl, and send it to the table. 

756. Chicken Broiled With Bacon. Procure two very fine, tender, 
spring chickens, singe, draw, wipe neatly, a.nd cut the heads off, then split 
them without separating. Place them on a dish, season with one pinch of 
salt, half a pinch of pepper, and one tablespoonful of sweet oil; turn them 
well in the seasoning. Put them to broil for nine minutes on each side. 
Prepare six small toasts on a hot dish, arrange the two broiled chickens 
over, spread half a gill of maitre d'hotel butter on top (No. 145), and 
decorate with six thin slices of broiled bacon (No. 754); then serve. 

757. Chicken Pot-pie. Take one fine Philadelphia chicken, from three 
and a half to four pounds, singe, draw, wipe well, and cut it into twelve 
even pieces. Put these in a saucepan, and cover them with cold water; 
leave them in for thirty minutes, then wash well, drain, and return them to 
the saucepan. Cover again with fresh water, season with two pinches of 
salt, one pinch of pepper, and a third of a pinch of nutmeg; add a bouquet 
(No. 254), six small onions, and four ounces of salt pork cut into square 
pieces. Cook for three-quarters of an hour, taking care to skim well, then 
add one pint of raw potatoes, Parisiennes (No. 986), and three tablespoon- 
fuls of flour diluted with a cupful of cold water. Stir until it boils, then 
let cook for ten minutes. Remove the bouquet and transfer the whole 
to a deep earthen baking-dish; moisten the edges slightly with water, 
and cover the top with a good pie-crust (No. 1078). Egg the surface; 



POULTRY. 263 



make a few transverse lines on the paste with a fork, and cut a hole in 
the centre. Bake it in a brisk oven for fifteen minutes, then send to the 
table. 

758. Chicken Croquettes a la Reine. Make a croquette preparation 
as for No. 276, with chicken and mushrooms; roll it into six cork-shaped 
croquettes, dip each one separately in beaten egg, then in fresh or rasped 
bread-crumbs, fry them in very hot fat for four minutes, then drain them 
thoroughly, and place them on a hot dish, over a folded napkin. Serve 
with half a pint of hot sauce a la Reine (No. 623) separately. 

759. Chicken Croquettes a la Perigueux. The same as for No. 
758, serving with half a pint of hot Perigueux sauce (No. 191) separately. 

760. Chicken Croquettes a 1'Ecarlate. Exactly the same as for No. 
758, serving with half a pint of hot sauce Ecarlate (No. 247) separately. 

761. Chicken Croquettes a la Perigourdin. Prepare some forcemeat 
as for croquettes (No. 276), composed of chicken, mushrooms, two truffles 
cut into small square pieces, and bits of cooked smoked tongue, about 
one ounce. Fry them for four minutes, then serve the six croquettes 
with half a pint of hot Madeira sauce (No. 185). Add to it one chopped 
truffle and six chopped mushrooms; let cook five minutes, and serve in a 
separate bowl. 

762. Croustade of Chicken a la Dreux, Make six croustades (No. 
264), each one four inches and a half long by three inches in diameter. 
Take three-quarters of a pound of white, boned, cooked chicken meat, 
cut in half-inch pieces; add to them half a pint of Duxelle sauce (No. 
189), half a glassful of Madeira wine, and let cook together for four 
minutes. Fill the six croustades with this, arrange them nicely on a hot 
dish over a folded napkin, and serve. 

763. Croustade of Chicken Livers, au Madere. Prepare six crou- 
stades as for No. 762, fill them with chicken livers stewed in Madeira wine 
sauce (No. 767). 

764. Cromesquis of Chicken a la Richelieu. Make six cromesquis 
as for No. 268, and serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin, decorating 
with a little parsley-greens, and serving a pint of hot Richelieu sauce 
(No. 574) separately. 

765. Cromesquis of Chicken a la Reine. Exactly the same as for No. 
764, serving with half a pint of hot sauce a la Reine No. 623) separately, 
and garnishing the dish with parsley-greens. 

766. Chicken Legs a la Diable. Detach the legs from three medium- 
sized chickens; singe them slightly with a little alcohol lighted on a plate, 
then put them into the soup-pot and let boil for ten minutes. Remove 
them to a dish, cool them off thoroughly, then season with a good . pinch 
of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and a very little cayenne pepper; add also 
two tablespoonfuls of Parisian sauce and half a teaspoonful of ground 
English mustard. Now roll them well together, and pass one after another 
into fresh bread-crumbs; put them to broil on a moderate fire for four 
minutes on each side, then arrange them on a hot serving-dish. Pour 
over one gill of hot sauce a la Diable (No. 198), sprinkle a little chopped 



264 THE TABLE. 



parsley on top, and serve very hot. The legs can be served with any 
sauce or garnishing required. 

Turkeys' legs are prepared exactly the same way, only they should be 
broiled six minutes on each side instead of four, and served with any 
desired sauce or garnishing. 

767. Chicken Livers Stewed in Madeira Wine. Cut away the gall 
from a pint of chicken livers, dry them well with a cloth, then fry them 
in a sautoire with one ounce of butter, on a brisk fire, for five minutes. 
Season with a pinch of salt, and half a pinch of pepper, add half a glass of 
Madeira wine, reduce for one minute, then moisten slightly with about 
half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151). Cook again for three minutes, 
then add half an ounce of good butter, and the juice of half a lemon, toss- 
ing well without letting it boil; pour the whole on a hot serving-dish, and 
serve with six heart-shaped croutons (No. 133). 

708. Chicken Livers with Mushrooms. Proceed the same as for No. 
767, only adding six minced mushrooms three minutes before serving. 

769. Chicken Livers en Brochette with Bacon. Procure eighteen 
fresh chicken livers; cut away the gall, dry them well with a clean cloth, 
season with half a pinch each of salt and pepper, and cut each liver in two. 
Now prepare six slices of lean bacon (No. 754)> broil them for one minute, 
then cut each slice into six pieces. Take six silver skewers, run a skewer 
through the centre of the liver, the same with a piece of bacon, and con- 
tinue the same process until the six skewers are each one filled with a 
piece of liver and a piece of bacon. Roll them on a dish with one table- 
spoonful of good oil, dip them in fresh bread-crumbs, and put them on a 
moderate fire to broil for five minutes on each side. Arrange them on a 
hot dish, pour half a gill of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 145) over, and serve 
with a little watercress around the dish. 

7 70. Chicken Livers Sautes a Pltalienne. Proceed exactly as for No. 
767, only adding half a gill of cooked fine herbs (No. 143) five minutes 
before serving. 

771. Chicken Saute a la Marengo. Singe, draw, and cut into six 
pieces two small, tender chickens, each weighing a pound and a quarter. 
Lay them in an oiled sautoire, and brown slightly on both sides for five 
minutes, seasoning with a good pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper; 
when a golden color, moisten with half a pint of Espagnole (No. 151), and 
half a cupful of mushroom liquor. Add twelve mushroom-buttons, and 
two truffles cut in thin slices, also half a glassful of Madeira wine. Let 
cook for twenty minutes, then serve with six fried eggs, as in No. 413, 
and six heart-shaped croutons (No. 133). Adjust paper ruffles on the ends 
of the wings and legs of the chickens, and dress them nicely on the dish, 
decorating the borders with the fried eggs "and sippets of bread, then 
serve. 

772. Chicken Saute a PHongroise. Singe, draw, and cut into 
twelve pieces, two chickens of a pound and a quarter each; put them in a 
sautoire with an ounce of clarified butter, adding one finely chopped onion, 
half a pinch of salt, and half a pinch of pepper. Let cook slowly, without 



POULTRY. 265 



browning, for five minutes on each side, then moisten with half a pint of 
bechamel (No. 154), and half a cupful of cream. Let cook again for 
twenty minutes, skim the fat off, and serve with six pieces of fried bread 
croutons (No. 133) around the dish. 

773. Chicken Saute a la Parmentier. Singe, draw, and cut two 
chickens of a pound and a quarter each into twelve pieces; put them in a 
sautoire with one ounce of butter, season with a pinch of salt and half a 
pinch of pepper, and let cook on the stove for five minutes on each side, 
turning the pieces over with a fork. Moisten with half a pint of Espagn- 
ole sauce (No. 151), half a cupful of mushroom liquor, and add the juice 
of half a lemon. Let cook again for twenty minutes, then dress on a 
hot serving-dish, and decorate it with half a pint of potatoes chateau (No. 
1009) in clusters. 

774. Chicken Saute with Tarragon. Have two nice, tender young 
chickens of a pound and a quarter each; singe, draw, and cut each one 
into six pieces, and when well dried put them in a sautoire with one ounce 
of butter; season with a pinch of salt, and half a pinch of pepper, and let 
cook on a brisk stove for five minutes on each side. Moisten with half a 
pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), half a cupful of mushroom liquor, and 
half a glassful of sherry wine, and add a quarter of a bunch of well- 
washed, green tarragon-leaves. Let cook for twenty minutes, then dress 
nicely on a hot serving-dish, and decorate with six heart-shaped crou- 
tons (No. 133). 

775. Chicken Saute a la Chasseur. Prepare two chickens exactly as 
for the above (No. 774), moistening with half a pint of Espagnole sauce 
(No. 151), and half a cupful of mushroom liquor; add six finely minced 
mushrooms, half a glassful of sherry or Madeira wine, the zest of half a 
sound lemon, and one chopped shallot. Let cook for twenty minutes, and 
serve with six pieces of fried bread, cut heart-shaped, croutons (No. 133). 

776. Chicken Saute a la Bordelaise. Singe, draw, and cut up two 
chickens, each weighing a pound and a quarter, into twelve pieces; put 
them in a sautoire with two tablespoonfuls of oil and one chopped shallot. 
Let brown well for five minutes, then moisten with half a glassful of 
white wine, adding three artichoke-bottoms, each one cut into four pieces. 
Season with a pinch of salt, and half a pinch of pepper, then put the lid on 
and let simmer slowly for fifteen minutes; when ready to serve, add a 
little meat-glaze, a teaspoonful (No. 141), the juice of half a lemon, and a 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Dish up the pieces, crown-shaped, with 
paper ruffles nicely arranged, and garnish with the artichoke-bottoms in 
clusters, and twelve cooked potatoes chateau (No. 1009). 

777. Chicken Saute a la Regence. Singe, draw, and dry well two 
tender chickens of a pound and a quarter each; cut them into twelve 
pieces, and put them in a sautoire with one ounce of butter. Season with 
a good pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, add half a glassful of Madeira 
wine, reduce for one minute, then put the lid on, and let simmer for six 
minutes. Moisten with half a pint of veloute (No. 152), and half a cupful 
of mushroom liquor. Let cook for ten minutes, then put in two truffles 



266 THE TABLE. 



cut into small pieces, six mushrooms, a small sweetbread, and one ounce 
of cooked, smoked beef-tongue, all finely chopped. Finish cooking foi 
ten minutes longer, then take from off the fire and incorporate therein two 
raw egg yolks diluted in the juice of half a lemon; while adding the egg 
yolks gently shuffle the pan, thicken well the sauce, then serve with paper 
ruffles neatly arranged at the ends of the wings and legs of the chickens. 

778. Chicken Saute a la Bohemienne. Prepare two chickens as 
for the above (No. 777) ; put them in a sautoire with one ounce of 
butter, seasoning with a good pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper. 
Cook on a brisk fire for six minutes, turning the pieces of chicken 
frequently with a fork; moisten with half a wine-glassful of Madeira wine, 
reduce for one minute, then add half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151). 
Cook for ten minutes; add half a pint of cooked macaroni cut in small 
pieces. Cook again for ten minutes. Nicely arrange the chicken on a 
hot dish, pour the gravy over, and fill six bouchees (No. 270) with the 
macaroni taken from the stew, also a little grated Parmesan cheese 
sprinkled over. Garnish the dish all around with the bouchees, adjust 
paper ruffles at the end of the chicken legs, and serve hot. 

779. Chicken Boiled a la Providence. Singe, draw, and wipe well 
two chickens of a pound and a quarter each; truss them from the wing to 
the leg with a needle, and boil them in good broth for three-quarters of an 
hour. Prepare a pint of Allemande sauce (No. 210) with the broth of the 
chickens, adding a gill of small cuts of boiled carrots, the same of cooked 
Lima beans or flageolets, and let all cook together for three minutes. Dish 
up the chickens, untruss them, and pour the sauce over, arranging the 
vegetables on each side. Serve with chopped parsley strewn over. 

780. Chicken Fricasse a' la Reine. Cut up two fine, tender, raw 
chickens into twelve even pieces. Place them in alarge sautoire, with one 
quart of cold water, on a brisk fire ; as soon as it comes to a boil, thoroughly 
skim. Season with one and a half pinches of salt, half a pinch of pepper, two 
cloves, and one bay-leaf, also a light bouquet (No. 254). Let boil slowly 
for twenty-five minutes. ' Place in another saucepan one and a half 
ounces of butter, which you melt on the hot range, add to it three table- 
spoonfuls .of flour, thoroughly mix with a wooden spoon, while slowly 
cooking without browning, as the above, under no circumstances, should 
be allowed to get brown. Strain the broth into a bowl through a sieve. 
Return the pieces of chicken to the sautoire (but only the chicken), leav- 
ing it at the oven door till further action. Now add, little by little, the 
broth to the flour, being careful to stir continually until all added. 
Let boil for two minutes. Have three egg yolks in a bowl with a 
tablespoonful of good butter, half a gill of cold milk, and just a little 
cayenne pepper no more than a third of a saltspoonftil squeezing in also 
the juice of half a medium-sized sound lemon. Mix all well together; and 
then add it to the sauce; stirring continually till all added. Heat up well, 
but do not allow to boil. Strain it through a sieve over the chicken. Mix 
well together, adding two truffles, and four mushrooms cut into small 
dice-shaped pieces. Dres* the whole on a hot dish, arrange paper ruffles 



POULTRY. 267 



at the end of the legs, and serve with heart-shaped croutons (No. 133) 
around the dish. 

781. Chicken Fricasse a PAmericaine. Boil two chickens as for 
No. 779 ; cut them into twelve pieces, and put them into a sautoire 
with eight minced mushrooms, an ounce of cooked salt pork cut into small 
squares, and half a pint of Allemande sauce (No. 210). Warm thoroughly 
without boiling, and serve with six heart-shaped pieces of fried bread 
(No. 133). 

782. Pfflau of Chicken a la Turque. Take a fine tender chicken 
weighing two pounds, singe, draw, and wipe it well, then cut it into twelve 
even pieces. Brown them in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, one 
chopped onion, and one chopped green pepper. Let cook for six minutes, 
stirring lightly with a wooden spoon, then moisten with a pint of good 
broth (No. 99), and a gill of tomato sauce (No. 205). Add two ounces of 
dried mushrooms which have been soaking in water for several hours, or 
twelve canned mushrooms; season with a good pinch of salt, half a pinch 
of pepper, and half a teaspoonful of diluted saffron. Now add half a 
pint of well-washed, raw rice (if using Italian rice, only pick it) and three 
tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese; cook for twenty minutes longer, 
dress neatly on a hot dish, and serve. 

783. Chicken Pillau a la Creole. Exactly the same as for No. 782, 
adding three medium-sized, cut-up,fresh tomatoes, or half a pint of canned 
tomatoes with the other garnishings. 

784. Chicken With Rice. Singe, draw, and wipe well a tender fowl 
of three pounds; truss it from the wing to the leg, then put it into a sauce- 
pan covering it with water; add two pinches of salt, half a pinch of pepper, 
one carrot cut into four pieces, one whole onion stuck with three cloves, 
and a bouquet (No. 254). Cook for about twenty-five minutes, or until 
half done, then add half a pint of well-picked, raw rice; cook again for 
twenty minutes, and when finished, dish up the chicken, suppressing the 
bouquet, onion, arfd carrot; arrange the rice nicely around it, and serve. 

785. Chicken a la Maryland. Procure two small, tender spring 
chickens, leave the half of one aside for other use, and detach the legs 
and the wings; lay them on a plate, season with a good pinch of salt and 
half a pinch of pepper, then dip them in beaten egg, and afterward roll them 
in fresh bread-crumbs. Place them in a buttered pan, pour an ounce of 
clarified butter over, and roast in the oven for eighteen minutes. Pour 
half a pint of cream sauce (No. 181) onto a hot serving-dish, arrange the 
chicken nicely on top, and decorate with six thin slices of broiled bacon 
(No. 754), also six small corn-fritters (No. 965). Serve as hot as possible. 

786. Supreme of Chicken a la Toulouse. Singe, draw, and wipe 
neatly three fine, tender spring chickens. ' Remove the skin from the 
breasts. Make an incision on top of the breast - bone from end to 
end, then with a small sharp knife, carefully cut off the entire breast on 
each side, including the small wing-bone, which should not be separated 
from the breast, and seeing that the entire breasts are cleverly cut away, 
without a particle of it on the carcasses. 



268 THE TABLE. 



Under each breast will be found a small fillet, which you carefully 
remove, and place on a dish for further action. With a small sharp knife 
make an incision in each breast at their thinner side three inches in length 
by one inch in depth. Season the inside of each breast with a pinch of 
salt and half a pinch of pepper, equally divided. Stuff the breasts with two 
ounces of chicken forcemeat (No. 226), mixed with two fine, sound truffles 
finely sliced, and four mushrooms, also finely sliced. Butter well a -well- 
tinned copper sautoire. Gently lay in the six breasts; then take each small 
fillet, press gently with the fingers, and give each a boatlike shape. Make 
six slanting, small incisions on top of each, insert in each incision a small 
slice of truffle, cut with a tube half an inch in diameter. Slightly wet the 
top of each breast with water; carefully arrange one fillet on top of each' 
breast lengthwise. Sprinkle a little clarified butter over all with a feather 
brush. Pour into the pan, but not over the supreme, a quarter of a glass- 
ful of Madeira wine and two tablespoonfuls of mushroom liquor ; tightly 
cover the pan with the lid, then place in the hot oven for ten minutes. 
Pour on a hot serving-dish one pint of hot Toulouse garnishing (No. 176). 
Remove the supremes from the oven, neatly dress them over the garnish- 
ing, adjust paper ruffles on each wing-bone, and immediately send to the 
table. 

787. Supreme of Chicken a la Bayard. Proceed as for No. 786, 
only serving with one pint of garnishing Bayard (No. 231). 

788. Supreme of Chicken & la Reine. Exactly the same as for No. 
786, only substituting one pint of hot sauce a la reine (No. 780) for the 
other garnishing. 

789. Supreme of Chicken a la Patti. Prepare the supreme the same 
as for No. 786, then have a puree of rice with cream a la Patti (No. 245), 
garnish the dish with this, and lay the supreme on top. Decorate the rice 
with two thinly sliced truffles, pour a gill of good sauce Perigueux (No. 
191) over, and serve with paper ruffles. 

790. Supreme of Chicken a la Eothschild. Have six chicken 
supremes prepared exactly the same as in No. 786, but stuffing them with 
puree of chestnuts instead of the chicken forcemeat. Mince very fine two 
sound truffles, then mix them with a pint of hot puree of chestnuts (No. 131); 
then arrange the puree on a hot dish, place six round-shaped croutons (No. 
133), instead of heart-shaped, nicely dress the supremes over the croutons, 
decorate the top of each supreme, right in the centre, with one mushroom- 
head. 

791. Turban of Chicken a la Cleveland. Select two very tender 
chickens, singe, draw, and wipe them well ; bone them and cut them into 
quarters, then put them into a sautoire with one ounce of butter, a good 
pinch of salt and half a pinch 'of pepper ; add half a glassful of Madeira 
wine, and let parboil very slowly for ten minutes. Take half a pint of 
chicken forcemeat (No. 226), add to it one chopped truffle, three chopped 
mushrooms, and half an ounce of cooked minced tongue. Stir well 
together ; put this forcemeat on a silver dish, lay the pieces of chicken on 
top, crown-shaped, and decorate with twelve whole mushrooms and two 



POULTRY. 269 



thinly sliced truffles. To the gravy in which the chickens were cooked add 
half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), a teaspoonful of chopped chives, 
and a small pat of fresh butter. Pour this immediately over the chickens, 
put the dish in the oven, and let cook very slowly for ten minutes. 
Squeeze th'e juice of half a lemon over, and serve with six heart-shaped 
pieces of fried bread (No. 133). 

792. Chicken Curry a PIndienne. Take a good, tender three-pound 
chicken, singe, draw neatly, and cut it into square pieces. Put them in 
cold water for five minutes, wash them well, then drain, and put them in 
a saucepan, covering it to the surface with hot water ; season with two 
good pinches of salt, one pinch of pepper, and the third of a pinch of nut- 
meg. Add a bouquet (No. 254), and six small onions ; let cook on a 
moderate stove for forty-five minutes, skimming it well. Take another 
saucepan, in it place one and a half gills of white roux(No. 135), moisten 
it with all of the broth from the chicken, and mix well together. Prepare 
a tablespoonful of diluted cufry with four egg yolks, and the juice of half 
a lemon, beat all this well together, pour it into the sauce a little at a time, 
stirring continually and not allowing it to boil. Pour the sauce over the 
chicken, which remains in the saucepan, and dress immediately on a hot 
dish, decorated with boiled rice all around as a border, and serve. 

793. Chicken Curry a I'Espagnole. The same as for No. 792, add- 
ing two cut-up tomatoes and one green pepper, cooking them ten minutes 
with the chicken. 

794. Chicken Curry a la Creole. The same as for No. 792, adding 
one green pepper cut very fine, also one chopped onion, and half a clove 
of garlic, cooking them twenty minutes with the chicken. 

795. Boiled Turkey a PAnglaise. Take a very fine, tender turkey 
of about five pounds, singe, draw, and truss well with a needle from the 
wing to the leg. Put it into the soup-pot, and let cook for one hour ; 
remove to a hot serving-dish. Decorate the dish with a pint of cooked 
spinach a 1'Anglaise (No. 940), and six slices of hot, cooked, lean ham. 
Serve with half a cupful of hot broth poured over the turkey so as to keep 
it moist. 

796. Boiled Turkey, Celery Sauce. Exactly the same as for No. 
795, substituting for garnishing one pint of hot celery sauce (No. 200), 
served separately. 

797. Boiled Turkey, Oyster Sauce. Proceed as for No. 795, serv- 
ing with one pint of hot oyster sauce (No. 173), separately. 

798. Boiled Turkey, Egg 1 Sauce. The same as for No. 795, serving 
with one pint of hot egg sauce (No. 161), separately. 

799. Boiled Turkey a la Baltimore. Serve a boiled turkey as for 
No. 795, garnishing it with half a head of cooked and hot cauliflower, one 
good-sized cooked carrot, cut in slices, and six cooked small onions, all 
neatly arranged around the dish, with half a pint of hot Allemande sauce 
(No. 210), served separately. 

800. Roast Turkey, Stuffed with Chestnuts. Singe, draw, wash well, 
and neatly dry a fine, tender turkey, weighing five to six pounds; fill the in- 



270 THE TABLE. 



side with the chestnut stuffing described below, then nicely truss the turkey 
from the wing to the leg; season with a heavy pinch of salt, well sprinkled 
over. Cover the breast with thin slices of larding pork. Put it to roast 
in a roasting-pan in a moderate oven for one hour and a half, basting it 
occasionally with its own gravy. Take from out the oven, untruss, dress 
it on a hot dish, skim the fat off the gravy, add a gill of broth (No. 99) or 
consomme (No. 100) to the gravy, let it just come to a boil, strain into a 
bowl, and send to the table separately. 

Plain roast turkey is prepared the same, suppressing the stuffing, and 
roasting it only one hour and fifteen minutes. 

Chestnut Stuffing. Peel a good-sized, sound shallot, chop it up very 
fine, place in a saucepan on the hot range with one tablespoonful of but- 
ter, and let heat for three minutes without browning, then add a quarter 
of a pound of sausage meat. Cook five minutes longer, then add ten 
finely chopped mushrooms, twelve well-pounded, cooked, peeled chest- 
nuts; mix all well together. Season with one pinch of salt, half a pinch 
of pepper, half a saltspoonful of powdered thyme, and a teaspoonful of 
finely chopped parsley. Let just come to a boil, then add half an ounce 
of fresh bread-crumbs, and twenty-four whole cooked and shelled French 
chestnuts; mix all well together, being careful not to break the chestnuts. 
Let cool off, and then stuff the turkey with it. 

801. Hashed Turkey a la Royale. Take a pound and a half of dice- 
shaped pieces of cooked turkey; place them in a saucepan with a pint of 
bechamel (No. 154), three tablespoonfuls of mushroom liquor, and two 
truffles cut in square pieces. Season with one pinch of salt, half a pinch 
of pepper, and the third of a pinch of nutmeg. Let all heat together for 
ten minutes, then serve with six heart-shaped pieces of bread (No. 133), 
lightly covered with pate-de-foie-gras neatly arranged around the dish. 

802. Hashed Turkey a la Bechamel. The same as for No. 801, omit- 
ting the truffle and bread croutons, and serving with chopped parsley 
strewn over. 

803. Hashed Turkey a la Polonaise. The same as for No. 801, only 
serving with six poached eggs (No. 404), and six heart-shaped croutons 
(No. "133), instead of the truffles and pate-de-foie-gras. 

804. Hashed Turkey a la Creme. Exactly the same as for No. 801, 
substituting one pint of cold, fresh cream, and a tablespoonful of fresh 
butter for the bechamel, also omitting the truffles and pate-de-foie-gras ; 
reducing the cream with the hash to one half, which will take from four 
to five minutes. Pour on a hot dish and serve. 

805. Hashed Turkey en Bordure. Decorate the border of a baking- 
dish with a potato croquette preparation (No. 997), place it in the oven for 
six minutes, then fill the centre with hashed turkey a la bechamel (No. 
802), and put it in the oven again for five minutes before serving. 

806. Turkey Breasts a la Chipolata. Singe, draw, and wipe neatly 
a fine young turkey of six pounds. Detach the two legs entirely from 
the turkey. Place in a saucepan any piece of pork-skin that is on hand, 
adding one cut-up carrot, one onion, also cut up, and a bouquet (No. 254). 



POULTRY. 271 



Lay the breasts of the turkey over the garnishing, season with one pinch 
of salt and half a pinch of pepper, then put on the lid and let get a golden 
color for about ten minutes. Moisten with one pint of broth (No. 99), 
and put it into the oven without the lid, letting it cook for forty minutes, 
basting it frequently with its own gravy. Arrange on a hot dish, and 
serve with a pint of hot chipolata (No. 232). .The stock remaining in 
the pan can be used for preparing Espagnole sauce. 

807. Turkey Breasts a la Robinson. Proceed exactly as for No. 
806, but after cooking for twenty minutes, take it off and place it in another 
saucepan. Baste it with its own gravy, adding half a pint of Espagnole 
sauce (No. 151). Blanch half a pint of chicken or turkey livers, cut them 
into two or three pieces according to their size, and put them with the 
turkey, adding half a glassful of Madeira wine. Let cook for twenty 
minute more, and serve with the livers around the breasts, and the gravy 
thrown over. 

808. Roast Goose, Stuffed with Chestnuts, Apple Sauce. Have a 
fine, tender goose of four pounds, singe, draw, wash well, and thoroughly 
wipe the interior with a cloth ; then fill it with some stuffing as for the 
turkey (No. 800). Close both ends, truss well, sprinkle a pinch of salt 
over, envelop in buttered paper and put it into a roasting -pan. Cook it 
for one hour and a half in a moderate oven, basting it occasionally with 
the dripping. Remove from the oven, dress on a hot serving-dish, untruss, 
skim off the fat from the gravy, add to it a gill of white broth (No. 99), 
let come to a boil, then strain the gravy into a sauce-bowl and serve 
separately. 

809. Timbale of Foie-Gras Lagardere. Butter lightly six timbale 
molds; decorate the inside according to taste with pieces of truffle and 
smoked beef-tongue; fill them half full with cream forcemeat (No. 225), 
leaving an empty space in the centre, filling this in with a reduced salpi- 
con (No. 256). Cover the salpicon with a very little pate-de-foie-gras, 
and finish filling with the cream forcemeat. Put the molds in a sautoire 
holding hot water to half their height; boil gently, and then place them 
in a slow oven for ten minutes. Unmold on a hot dish, and serve with 
half a pint of hot sauce Perigueux (No. 191) separately. Place on top of 
each timbale a small, round croquette of foie-gras, then serve. 

810. Tol-au-Tent a la Financiere. Fill six vol-au-vents made with 
feuilletage paste (No. 1076) with a quart of financiere garnishing (No. 
246), and serve them on a dish with a folded napkin. 

811. Vol-au- Vent a la Toulouse. Fill six vol-au-vents (No. 1076) with 
a quart of hot Toulouse garnishing (No. 176), and serve the same as for 
the above. 

812. Yol-au-Yent a la Reine. Fill six vol-au-vents (No. 1076) with 
a quart of hot Reine garnishing (No. 623), and serve as for No. 810. 

813. Boned Turkey a la Prosperity of America. Procure a fine, 
tender, young Rhode Island turkey, weighing eight pounds. Singe, draw, 
and neatly wipe the interior. Make an incision right along the back. 
Begin boning from the neck down toward the breast, on both sides, being 



272 THE TABLE. 



very careful not to make any holes in the skin, as it should remain per- 
fectly intact. Make an incision from the first joint, then bone both legs. 
Cut away also, very carefully, the two wing bones. Season the inside 
with one pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, evenly divided. Place 
it on a dish, and lay it in the ice-box until needed. Take two pounds 
of lean, raw veal, three pounds of fresh pork, and half a pound of 
larding pork, all cut up into small dice-shaped pieces. Season with two 
pinches of salt, one pinch of white pepper, the third of a saltspoonful of 
grated nutmeg, and the same quantity of thyme. Mix all well together. 
Place all in the chopping machine, and chop it exceedingly fine, repeating 
the process, if necessary, until it is chopped to perfection. Should there be 
any sinews among the ingredients, remove them all. Place on a cold dish, 
and put away in the ice-box to cool until the following is prepared. Have 
ready a quarter of a pound of the end (red) part of a cooked smoked beef- 
tongue, eighteen medium-sized, sound truffles, both tongue and truffles cut 
in dice-shaped pieces half an inch square. Take the forcemeat from the ice- 
box, and thoroughly mix the tongue and truffles with it, pouring in also a 
wine-glassful of Madeira wine. Half a cup of well-peeled pistache can be 
added, if at hand. Take the turkey from the ice-box, spread it on a clean 
table (skin-side downward). Then, with a keen knife, cut away even 
slices from the breasts, arrange them on the thin, so that the turkey 
should have an equal thickness all over. Place the forcemeat right in the 
centre of the turkey, column shaped, leaving a clear space of two inches 
at each end, and of four inches at each side. Spread on a table a strong, 
clean napkin, sprinkling over it a little cold water. Fold up first both 
ends of the turkey, then both sides, so that the four ends should be envel- 
oped ; gently lift, and lay it right in the centre of the napkin. Roll it 
carefully in the napkin. Tightly tie one end first, then the other, as firmly 
as possible, taking in the slack of the napkin. Place it in a large sauce- 
pan on the hot range, with the carcass, and whatever bones and debris 
pertain to it, completely cover with cold water, place the lid on, and 
when coming to a boil thoroughly skim it, then add one medium-sized, 
sound, scraped carrot, and one well-peeled onion with three cloves stuck 
in. Season with one pinch of salt, and then let boil on a moderate fire for 
fully two and a half hours. Remove the galantine with a skimmer ; let 
cool enough so that it can be easily handled. Cut the strings at both ends ; 
roll it over again as before, and tightly tie both ends exactly as before. 
Lay it in a flat tin pan, placing on top of it a board the size of the boned 
turkey, and on top of it a weight of seven pounds, leaving the weight on 
until the galantine is thoroughly cold, which will take a whole night ; but 
avoid placing it in the ice-box until thoroughly cold. Two days after the 
preparation it will be ready for use ; keeping it in the ice-box in the 
same napkin in which it was cooked. 

814. Jelly for Boned Turkey. Strain the broth in which the galantine 
was cooked into another saucepan, thoroughly skim all the fat off, add 
one ounce of clarified gelatine. Boil for five minutes. Crack into another 
saucepan the whites of two raw eggs, and the shells as well, squeeze in the 



POULTRY. 273 



juice of half a sound lemon, adding half a glassful of Madeira wine, and a 
small piece of ice, the size of an egg, finely cracked. Beat all sharply 
together with a wire whip. Place the broth on the table at hand near the 
eggs, &c. , and with a soup-ladle in the left hand, a wire whip in the 
right, add a ladleful of broth, little by little, to the eggs, carefully and 
sharply stirring with the whip until all the broth has been added. Place 
it then on a very moderate fire, and let gently come to a boil. Immediately 
strain through a flannel bag or a napkin into a clean bowl and let cool, and 
it will be ready for use. 

815. Pigeon Cutlets a la Victoria. Singe, draw, and bone three fine 
pigeons, leaving on the legs; cut them in two, and stuff lightly with 
chicken forcemeat (No. 226), immerse then in beaten egg and fresh bread- 
crumbs, then cook in a sautoire with half an ounce of clarified butter, for 
four minutes on each side, and serve with half a pint of hot Victoria 
sauce (No. 208) on the warm dish, and the cutlets on top, with paper 
ruffles nicely arranged. 

816. Squabs Roasted Plain. Singe, draw, cut off the necks, wipe 
neatly, and truss six fine, small squabs ; put them in a roasting-pan with 
half a pinch of salt, evenly divided, and a very little butter spread over. 
Put the pan into a brisk oven to cook for twelve minutes ; then remove 
from the oven, untruss, and dress them on a hot dish, on which you pre- 
viously have placed, six small canapes, prepared as in No. 832, one on each 
canape ; neatly decorate the dish with fresh watercress ; skim the fat 
Irom off the gravy, add to it a gill of white broth (No. 99) ; let it just 
come to a boil, strain it into a sauce-bowl, and send to the table separately. 

817. Squabs Broiled on Toast, with Bacon. Singe, draw, cut the 
necks off, and wipe nicely three very good-sized squabs ; split them 
without detaching the parts, then lay them on a dish, and season with a 
pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and a tablespoonful of sweet oil ; 
roll them in well, and put them to broil for six minutes on each side. Pre- 
pare a dish with six toasts, arrange the squabs over, and spread a gill of 
maitre d'hotel butter (No. 145) on top. Decorate the dish with six slices 
of broiled bacon (No. 754), and serve. 

818. Ballotin of Squab a 1'Italienne. Singe, draw, and bone six 
tender squabs ; stuff them with a good chicken forcemeat (No. 226), and 
leave on one leg, to decorate later with a ruffle. Form them into a circle, 
arranging each squab so it assumes a round shape ; place them in a 
buttered sautoire ; season with a good pinch of salt and half a pinch of 
pepper, and cover with a piece of buttered paper. Put it in the oven for 
fifteen minutes, and when cooked serve with half a pint of hot Italian 
sauce (No. 188), the squabs laid on top, with a paper ruffle fastened on 
to each leg. 

819. Squabs a la Crapaudine. Singe, draw, then split six squabs 
through the back without entirely dividing the parts ; break the bones of 
the legs and wings, flatten them well, and lay them on a dish to season 
with a good pinch of salt, one pinch of pepper, and two tablespoonfuls of 
oil, roll them in well, then dip them in fresh bread-crumbs, and broil them 



2/4 THE TABLE. 



slowly for seven minutes on each side. Arrange them on a hot dish, 
and serve with half a pint of hot Robert sauce (No. 192), to which add 
three chopped mushrooms. Serve the sauce on a dish, and the squabs 
on top. 

820. Squabs a 1'Americaine. Singe, draw, and truss nicely six fine, fat 
squabs ; stuff them with American forcemeat (No. 229), and place them in 
a roasting-pan with a pinch of salt, evenly distributed, and half an ounce 
of butter well spread over the squabs. Place them in the hot oven, and 
roast for eighteen minutes. Take from out the oven, dress them on a hot 
dish ; untruss ; skim the fat off the gravy, add to it one gill of broth (No. 
99), let come to a boil, strain into a sauce-bowl, decorate the dish with a 
little fresh watercress. Arrange a slice of broiled bacon (No. 754) over 
each bird, and send to the table. 

821. Squabs a la Cllipolata. Prepare and roast six squabs same as 
for No. 816, and serve them with a pint of hot chipolata garnishing (No. 
232) on a hot dish, and the squabs arranged over. 

822. Squabs en Compote. Singe, draw, and truss with their legs 
thrust inside, six fine, fat squabs ; lay them in a saucepan with half an 
ounce of butter, one cut-up onion, and one carrot cut the same. Season 
with a pinch of salt, then put the lid on the pan, and cook on a good fire 
for ten minutes. Put in a saucepan six small glazed onions (No. 967), one 
medium-sized carrot, cut with a vegetable-scoop (blanching the latter for 
two minutes), one ounce of salt pork cut into small pieces, and six cut-up 
mushrooms ; moisten them with a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), and 
let cook together for thirty minutes. Transfer the squabs to this prep- 
aration, and let cook again for five minutes; dress the garnishing on a hot 
dish, arrange the squabs on top, and serve. 

823. Roast Duck a PAmericaine. Select a fine young duck, weigh- 
ing three and a half pounds ; singe, draw, and wipe it well, then stuff it 
with American forcemeat (No. 229), and place it in a roasting-pan with 
half an ounce of butter, and besprinkle with a pinch of salt, then roast it 
in the oven for forty minutes, basting it occasionally. Lay it on a dish, 
untruss, skim the fat off, add a gill of white broth (No. 99), let it come to 
a boil, then strain the lean part of the gravy over, and garnish with six 
pieces of fried hominy (No. 1035). 

824. Boast Duck, Apple Sauce. Have a fine, tender duckling of 
three and a half pounds ; singe, draw, wipe neatly, and truss. Place it 
in a roasting-pan, spread half an ounce of butter over, and a pinch of salt. 
Place it in a brisk oven, and let cook for thirty minutes, not failing to 
baste it occasionally with its own gravy. Dress it on a hot dish, untie 
the string, skim the fat off the gravy, add a gill of broth (No. 99), let it 
come to a boil, then strain the lean part over the duck, decorate with a 
little watercress, and serve with half a pint of hot apple sauce separately 
(No. 168). 

825. Duckling a la Ronennaise. Take two fine ducklings of one and 
a half pounds each, singe, draw, and truss them with the legs thrust inside; 
lay them in a roasting-pan, and cover them with half an ounce of butter, 



POULTRY. 275 



seasoning with a pinch of salt ; put them in the oven for ten minutes. 
Cut four medium-sized turnips into small dice-shaped pieces, put them in 
a saucepan with half an ounce of butter and half a teaspoonful of pow- 
dered sugar ; let cook for ten minutes, then moisten with a pint of Espagn- 
ole sauce (No. 151). Lay the ducks in the saucepan with the turnips, 
and let cook again all together for twenty-five minutes ; arrange the ducks 
on a hot dish, untruss, and decorate the dish with the turnips. Pour the 
sauce over all, and serve. 

826. Salmi of Dnck a PAmricaine. Procure two fine ducks : singe, 
draw, wipe neatly, and cut off the wings, legs, and breasts ; put the two 
carcasses in a saucepan, sprinkle a little salt over, and put it in the oven 
to cook for six minutes ; remove them, and hash them up. Put them back 
into a saucepan with a pint of white broth (No. 99), and a small bouquet 
(No. 254), and let cook on a moderate fire for fifteen minutes. Put an ounce 
of butter in a sautoire, lay in the wings, legs, and breasts, then season 
with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper ; cook on a very brisk fire 
for three minutes on each side, then add half a glassful of Madeira wine, 
half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), and the zest of a lemon ; strain 
the gravy of the carcasses over, and let all cook again for fifteen minutes. 
Dress nicely on a hot dish, and decorate with six heart-shaped croutons of 
fried hominy, and serve (No. 1035). 

827. Salmi of Duck, with Olives. Prepare the salmi of ducks as for 
the above (No. 826), adding half a pint of parboiled and stoned olives to 
the sauce. Use six heart-shaped fried croutons of bread (No. 133) instead 
of the hominy, and serve. 

828. Salmi of Duck a la Chasseur. Make a salmi the same as for 
No. 826, adding twelve sliced mushrooms, and serve with six heart-shaped 
croutons (No. 133). 

829. Salmi of Duck a la Bourgeoise. Prepare two fine ducks as for 
No. 826, and add twelve glazed onions (No. 967), and two raw carrots cut 
clove-garlic-shaped, letting them cook in salted water for ten minutes 
previous to adding them to the salmi, also half an ounce of salt pork, 
cut in square pieces, and let cook together with the ducks for fifteen min- 
utes more ; then serve. 

830. Salmi of Duck a la Montglas. Singe, draw, and wipe two fine, 
tender ducks ; cut away the wings, legs, and breasts, then put the carcasses 
in a roasting-pan ; sprinkle a little salt over, spread on each bird a very 
little butter, and place them in the oven for six minutes ; remove them, 
and hash them up. Lay them in a saucepan, moistened with a pint of 
white broth (No. 99) ; add a small bouquet (No. 254), and let cook on the 
stove for fifteen minutes. Put an ounce of butter in a sautoire, add the 
wings, legs, and breasts, previously laid aside ; season with a pinch of 
salt, half a pinch of pepper, and the third of a pinch of nutmeg, and let 
cook on a brisk fire for three minutes on each side. Add half a glassful 
of good sherry, half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), half a pint of 
tomato sauce (No. 205), two thin slices of smoked beef-tongue cut into 
Julienne-shaped pieces, two cut-up truffles, six fine mushrooms, also cut up; 



276 THE TABLE. 



then strain the gravy of the carcasses over this ; let cook all together for 
fifteen minutes more, then artistically dress the salmi on a hot dish, deco- 
rate with six heart-shaped bread croutons (No. 133), adjust paper ruffles to 
the end of the wings and legs, and serve. 

831. Salmi of Duck a la Marechale. Proceed exactly the same as 
for " Salmi a I'Americaine " (No. 826), adding twelve small godiveau quen- 
elles (No 221), and twelve mushrooms cut in two. Let heat well for five 
minutes, then serve with six fried bread croutons (No. 133). 

A pinch of salt represents 205 grains, or a tablespoonful. 

Half a pinch of pepper represents 38 grains, or a teaspoonful. 

A third of a pinch of nutmeg represents 13 grains, or half a teaspoonful. 



QAMB. 



832. Canapes for Game. Cut out the desired number of canapes 
from a loaf of American bread (a stale one is preferable) one and a half 
inches thick. Trim neatly, pare off the crusts; then cut out a piece in the 
centre of each, from end to end, so that the cavity will hold the bird easily 
when sending to the table. Spread a little butter over them, place on a 
tin plate; then brown in the hot oven until they obtain a good golden 
color. Remove from out the oven, arrange them on a hot dish, and they 
will be ready to serve. 

833. Croquettes of Game a la Pe"rigueux. Make six game croquettes 

exactly the same as the chicken croquettes (No. 758) the mushrooms can 
be omitted and serve with half a pint of hot sauce perigueux(No. 191), 
separately. 

834. Quails Roasted, Plain. Pick six fine, tender, fat quails, singe, 
draw, and wipe them well; truss them, laying a thin layer of lard on the 
breasts. Put them in a roasting-pan, spreading a very little butter on 
top of each quail; then pour half a cupful of water in the pan. Season 
with a pinch of salt, and let cook in the oven for eighteen minutes. Place 
on a hot dish six heart-shaped pieces of toast; untruss the quails, and 
arrange them on top, decorating with a little watercress. Strain the gravy 
into a sauce-bowl, and serve it separately. 

835. Quails Broiled with Bacon. Have six fine fat quails. Singe, 
draw, and wipe them well. Split them through the back without separat- 
ing the parts, and break the two leg bones. Put them on a dish; season 
with a pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and a tablespoonful of sweet 
oil, mixing them in well, and put them to broil on a moderate fire for six 
minutes on each side. Arrange six toasts on a hot dish, lay the quails on 
top, and pour a gill of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 145) over, decorating 
with six slices of broiled bacon (No. 754), and serve. 



GAME. 277 



836. Braised Quails, Celery Sauce. Take six nice fat quails, singe, 
draw, and wipe them well. Truss, and cover the breasts with a thin layer 
of lard. Place them in a sautoire with a piece of pork rind, half a carrot, 
and half an onion, both cut-up, and let them get a good golden color on 
the fire. Moisten with half a cupful of water, then put them in the oven, 
and let cook for twenty minutes. Serve with a pint of celery sauce (No. 
200), and a little meat-glaze (No. 141) thrown over. 

837. Quails a la Financiere. Braise six quails the same as for the 
above (No. 836), and serve them with a pint of hot financiere garnishing 
(No. 246) in place of the celery sauce. 

838. Doe-birds, Roasted, Plain. Singe, draw, and truss six fine, 
fat doe-birds. Put them in a roasting-pan with half a cupful of water, 
seasoning with a pinch of salt. Spread a very little butter over the birds, 
and put them in a hot oven for twelve minutes. Dress them on a hot dish 
with six small canapes (No. 832). Decorate the dish with a little water- 
cress, and serve. 

839. Broiled Doe-birds. Singe, draw, and wipe well six fine doe- 
birds; split them through the back without detaching the parts, and lay 
them on a dish. Season with a good pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, 
and one.tablespoonful of oil. Roll them in well, and broil for four minutes 
on each side. Prepare a hot dish with six toasts; arrange the doe-birds 
on top, and serve with a gill of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 145) well spread 
over. Decorate the dish with a little watercress. 

840. Boasted Doe-birds a PAmericaine. Proceed exactly as for No. 
838, replacing the canapes of bread with six canapes of fried hominy (No. 
IO 35)i r corn fritters, arranging six slices of broiled bacon over each bird, 
and serve the same. 

841. Boasted Doe-birds a PAfricaine. Exactly as for No. 838, only 

serving with six stuffed egg-plants (No. 909) instead of the canapes. 

842. Salmi of Doe-birds a la Gastronome. Make a salmi as for 
salmi of snipe (No. 870), and serve with six small potato croquettes 
(No. 997). 

843. Boast Partridge, Bread Sauce. Singe, draw, and wipe two 

fine, young partridges; truss them neatly, and cover the breasts with a 
layer of thin lard, tying it twice around. Lay them on a roasting-pan, 
spreading a little butter over each, and moistening with half a cupful of 
water. Put the pan in a brisk oven for twenty-five minutes, basting the 
birds occasionally. Dress each one on a bread canape (No. 832), remov- 
ing the strings. Decorate the dish with a little watercress. Strain the 
gravy into a sauce-bowl, and serve it separately; also serving half a pint 
of hot bread-sauce (No. 162) in another bowl. 

844. Partridge Broiled a PAmericaine. Singe, draw, and wipe 
neatly three tender partridges;' cut them in halves, lay them on a dish, 
and season with a good pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and a table- 
spoonful of oil. Roll them in well, then put them to broil for seven 
minutes on each side. Prepare six slices of fried hominy (No. 1035). 
Arrange them on a hot dish; place the partridges over, and pour a gill of 



278 THE TABLE. 



maitre d'hotel butter on top (No. 145). Place six slices of broiled bacon 
(No. 754) over the birds, and serve. 

845. Partridge and Cabbage. Select a fine, tender cabbage, clean it 
thoroughly, cut it into four parts; wash well in cold water, remove the 
root, and put into salted boiling water for five minutes. Remove, and 
drain well, then return it to the saucepan with one carrot cut in four 
pieces, one whole onion stuck with four cloves, a quarter of a pound of 
salt pork, in one piece, a bouquet (No. 254), one pint of white broth (No. 
99), and one pint of lean stock. Season with a good pinch of salt and a 
pinch of pepper. Take (in preference) two old partridges; singe, draw, 
and wipe them well; truss them with their wings turned inside, and put 
them on a roasting-pan with half a pinch of ,salt, and a little butter well 
spread over their breasts, and put them to roast for six minutes. Make 
a hollow space in the centre of the cabbage, place therein the two part- 
ridges and cover them over, laying a piece of buttered paper on top to 
prevent the air from escaping; put the lid on and cook in the oven for 
one hour. Now lift off the lid, remove the paper, skim off any fat adher- 
ing to the surface, and dress the cabbage neatly on a hot dish; untruss, and 
arrange the partridges, decorating the dish artistically with the carrots and 
salt pork, cut into six slices. Take away the onion and bouquet, and serve. 

846. Partridge a la Financiere. Singe, draw, wipe, and truss two 
partridges with their wings inside. Lay a piece of pork-rind in a sauce- 
pan, adding one carrot and one onion, both cut in slices, two bay- 
leaves, one sprig of thyme, and the two partridges. Season with one 
pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper. When they have assumed a good 
golden color on the hot stove, moisten with half a pint of white broth 
(No. 99), then put the saucepan in the oven and let cook for twenty 
minutes. Dress them on a serving-dish, untruss, pour half a pint of hot 
sauce financiere (No. 246) over, and serve. The gravy from the par- 
tridges can be utilized for making the financiere sauce. 

847. Partridge Braised with Celery Sauce. Proceed exactly the 

same as for the above (No. 846), replacing the financiere by a pint of hot 
celery sauce (No. 200). 

848. Partridge Saute a la Chasseur. Singe, draw, and wipe two 

fine, tender partridges, cut them into twelve pieces, and place them in a 
sautoire with an ounce of butter, seasoning well with a good pinch of salt 
and half a pinch of pepper. Brown well for three minutes on each side ; 
then add a finely chopped shallot, half a glassful of Madeira wine, half a 
pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), and twelve whole mushrooms. Finish 
cooking for fifteen minutes, then serve with six bread croutons (No. 133) 
around the dish. 

849. Chartreuse of Partridge. Prepare the partridges as for No. 
845. Take a Charlotte-mold, which will hold three pints ; butter lightly, 
and decorate with small pieces of cooked carrot and turnip, cut very evenly 
with a vegetable-tube. When ready, fill the bottom with a layer of cooked 
cabbage ; cut the partridges into pieces, put a layer of them on the cabbage, 
covering the hollow spaces with more cabbage ; lay on top six slices of salt 



GAME. 2 79 



pork, add the rest of the partridges, and finish by covering the surface 
with cabbage, pressing it down carefully. Place the mold on a tin baking- 
dish, and put it in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes, leaving the oven- 
door open during the whole time. Have a hot dish ready, turn the mold 
upside down on it, and draw off carefully. Serve with a little demi-glace 
(No. 185). 

850. Supreme of Partridge, Sauce Perigueux. Singe, draw, wipe 
neatly, and remove the skin from the breasts of three partridges. Make 
an incision on top of each breast-bone, from end to end, then with a keen 
knife carefully cut off the entire breast on both sides of the partridges, 
including the small wing-bone, which should not be separated from the 
breasts, and seeing that the entire breasts are cleverly cut away, without 
leaving a particle of it on the carcasses. Under each breast will be found 
a small fillet, which you carefully remove, and place on a dish for further 
action. With a small, sharp knife, make an incision in each breast, at their 
thinner side, three inches in length by one inch in depth. Season the 
inside of each breast with a pinch of salt, and half a pinch of pepper, 
equally divided. Stuff the breasts with two ounces of chicken forcemeat 
(No. 226), mixed with two fine, sound, finely sliced truffles, and four finely 
sliced mushrooms. Butter well a well-tinned copper sautoire ; gently lay 
in the six breasts ; take each small fillet, press them gently with the 
fingers, giving them a boatlike form. Make six slanting, small incisions 
on top of each, insert in each incision a small slice of truffle, cut with a 
tube half an inch in diameter. Lightly wet the top of each breast with 
water, then neatly lay one fillet on top of each breast lengthwise. Sprinkle 
a little clarified butter over all with a feather brush. Pour into the pan 
(not over the supremes) a quarter of a glassful of Madeira wine and two 
tablespoonfuls of mushroom liquor, tightly cover the pan with a lid, then 
place in the hot oven for ten minutes. Pour on a hot dish one pint of hot 
Toulouse garnishing (No. 176). Remove the supremes from the oven, 
neatly dress them over the garnishing, adjust paper ruffles on each wing 
bone, and immediately send to the table. 

851. Supreme of Partridge a la Godard. The same as for ^the above 

(No. 850), but serving with half a pint of Allemande sauce (No. 210), adding 
two sliced truffles, six sliced mushrooms, six blanched cock's combs, and six 
blanched cock's kidneys, in place of the Perigueux sauce. Heat up well 
on the corner of the stove for four minutes, but do not allow it to boil, 
and pour the garnishing over the hot dish, dressing the supremes over it; 
serve very hot. 

852. Grouse, Boasted Plain. Singe, draw, wipe, and truss two fine 
fat grouse. Place them in a roasting-pan with half a cupful of water, 
spread a little butter over each, and season with a pinch of salt. Put them 
into a brisk oven, and let cook for eighteen minutes, taking care to baste 
frequently with their own gravy ; then untruss. Have a hot serving-dish 
ready ; place two bread canapes (No. 832) on it ; arrange the grouse over, 
and decorate the dish with a little watercress. Strain the gravy into a 
sauce-bowl, and serve it separately. 



280 THE TABLE. 

853. Grouse, Roasted a la Sam Ward. Take two fine fat grouse ; 
pick, singe, draw, and dry them well ; then truss them nicely. Place 
them in a roasting-pan, putting inside of each bird a piece of broiled toast 
four inches long and two wide. Drip in on each toast, with a spoon, a 
small glassful of good Madeira wine or sherry ; season the grouse with a 
pinch of salt; spread a little butter over. Put them in a brisk oven, and 
let cook for eighteen minutes, taking care to baste them frequently. Lay 
them on a hot dish, untruss, strain the gravy over, and decorate with a 
little watercress. Serve with a little red currant jelly separately. 

854. Grouse, Broiled With Bacon. Singe, draw, and wipe nicely two 
fat grouse. Split them in two through the back without separating the 
parts ; lay them on a dish, and season with a pinch of salt, half a pinch of 
pepper, and a tablespoonful of sweet oil. Roll them in well; then put 
them to broil on a brisk fire for seven minutes on each side. Prepare a 
hot dish with six small toasts, arrange the grouse over, spread a gill of 
maitre d'hotel butter (No. 145) on top, and garnish with six thin slices of 
broiled bacon (No. 754), then serve. 

855. Salmi of Grouse a la Parisienne. Singe, draw, wipe, and truss 
two fine fat grouse ; season with a pinch of salt, spread a few small bits 
of butter on the birds, then place them in a roasting-pan, and put them in 
a brisk oven to cook for eight minutes. Untruss and cut away the wings, 
legs, and breasts. Put an ounce of good butter into a saucepan with half 
a medium-sized carrot, cut in very small pieces, half an onion cut the 
same, a sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, and six whole peppers. Reduce 
to a good golden color for about five minutes, then hash the bodies of the 
two grouse, and add them to the other ingredients. Moisten with a pint 
of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), half a glassful of good sherry wine, half a 
cupful of mushroom liquor, and the zest of a lemon ; season with half a 
pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and a third of a pinch of nutmeg ; let 
cook for twenty minutes. Now put the wings, legs, and breasts into a 
separate saucepan, and strain the above sauce over the parts, adding six 
minced mushrooms and two minced truffles. Let cook for three minutes, 
then dress neatly on a hot dish, and serve with six croutons (No. 133) on 
top, and paper ruffles nicely arranged. 

856. Salmi Of Grouse a la Walter Scott. Proceed exactly the same 
as for the above (No. 855), omitting the mushrooms and truffles, and 
serving with half a pint of. bread sauce (No. 162) separately. 

857. Salmi of Grouse a la Florentine. The same as for No. 855, 
only serving the salmi with a garnishing of six hot artichokes a la Floren- 
tine (No. 903) in place of the other garnishing. 

858. Supreme of Grouse a la Richelieu. Proceed the same as for 
the supreme of partridge (No. 850), but substituting tongue for truffles, 
and serving with a gill of hot sauce Perigueux (No. 191), mingled with a 
gill of tomato sauce (No. 205), boiled together for three minutes. 

859. Teal Duck, Roasted Plain. Pick, singe, draw, wipe, and truss 
three fine teal ducks; place them in a roasting-pan. Season with a pinch 
of salt; put them in a brisk oven to roast for fourteen minutes, then un- 



GAME. 281 



truss. Arrange on a hot serving-dish, and decorate with six slices of 
fried hominy (No. 1035) and a little watercress. 

860. Teal Duck, Broiled. Have three fine, fat teal ducks; pick, 
singe, and dry them neatly; cut the heads off, and split the birds in two 
without separating the parts. Lay them on a dish, and season them with 
a pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and a tablespoonful of sweet oil. 
Roll them in well, and put them to broil on a moderate fire for seven 
minutes on each side. Have a hot dish with six toasts ready, lay the 
ducks on top, spread a gill of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 145) over, 
decorate with a little watercress, and serve. 

861. Salmi of Teal Duck a la Begence. Prepare the salmi of teal 
duck as for the salmi of duck a l'Americaine (No. 826), adding half a pint 
of hot Regence garnishing (No. 235) four minutes before serving. 

862. Ptarmigan, Boasted Plain. Proceed exactly the same as for 
roasted teal ducks, No. 859. 

863. Ptarmigan, Broiled Plain. Prepared the same as for teal 
ducks broiled, No. 860. 

864. Salmi of Ptarmigan a la Chasseur. To be prepared exactly as 
salmi of duck a I'Americaine (No. 826), adding twelve mushrooms, cut in 
two, four minutes before serving, and decorating with six heart-shaped 
croutons (No. 133). 

865. Plovers, Boasted Plain. Pick, singe, draw, and wipe neatly 
six fine, fat, tender plovers; pick out the eyes, truss the legs together, 
skewer the head under one leg, and lay a thin slice of larding pork on 
each bird; tie securely, then place them in a roasting-pan. Season with a 
pinch of salt evenly divided over each; spread also a very little butter 
over. Put them in the hot oven, and roast for ten minutes. Remove 
from the oven, arrange six small canapes (No. 832) on a hot dish, dress 
the birds on the canapes, decorate with a little watercress, and serve. 

866. Plovers Broiled. Pick, singe, draw, and wipe six fine, fat 
plovers; pick out the eyes, split them through the back without separat- 
ing the parts, and place them on a dish. Season with one pinch of salt, 
half a pinch of pepper, and a tablespoonful of sweet oil. Roll them in 
well, and put them on a broiler to cook for four minutes on each side. 
Dress them on a hot dish with six pieces of toast, spread a gill of 
maitre d'hotel butter (No. 145) over, decorate with a little watercress, and 
serve. 

867. Salmi of Plover a la Maison d'Or. Proceed exactly the same 
as for salmi of woodcock (No. 873), adding, on the serving-dish, six heart- 
shaped bread croutons (No. 133), covered with pate-de-foie-gras. 

868. English Snipe, Boasted. Procure six fine English snipe; pick, 
singe, draw, and wipe them (reserve the hearts and livers for further use); 
pick out the eyes, remove the skin from the heads, truss the legs, skewer 
them with the bills; tie a thin slice of larding pork around each bird, and 
put them in a roasting-pan, sprinkling a pinch of salt over. Set them in the 
oven to roast for eight minutes. Hash up very fine the hearts and livers, 
with a teaspoonful of chives and a teaspoonful of good butter, season- 



282 THE TABLE. 



ing with half a pinch of salt and the third of a pinch of pepper. Cover 
six bread canapes (No. 832) with this, sprinkling a little fresh bread- 
crumbs on top. Spread a very little butter over all, and put them OH a 
tin plate in the oven for two minutes. Arrange the canapes on a hot dish, 
dress the snipe nicely over, decorate with a little watercress, and strain 
the gravy into a sauce-bowl, serving it separately. 

869. English Snipe, Broiled. Pick, singe, draw, and dry well six 
fine English snipe; remove the skin from the heads, split them in two with- 
out detaching the parts, and put them on a dish. Season with a pinch of 
salt, half a pingh of pepper, and a tablespoonful of oil. Roll them in well, 
then put them to broil (with the bills stuck into the breasts), and let them 
cook for four minutes on each side. Prepare a hot dish with six toasts, 
arrange the snipe over, spread a gill of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 145) on 
top, decorate the dish with a little watercress, and serve. 

870. Salmi of Snipe a la Moderne. Singe, draw, and neatly wipe 
six fine, fat snipe. Chop off the legs, and then stuff the inside with a 
little game forcemeat (No. 228) through a paper cornet; fill the cavity 
of the eyes with a little more of the game forcemeat (No. 228), and cover- 
ing each eye right over the game forcemeat with a small bit of truffle, cut 
with a tube. Insert the bills in the breasts, and then lay them on a roast- 
ing-pan, with a little butter; place in the hot oven to roast for six minutes. 
Take from out the oven, lay each one on a square piece of bread, fried in 
a little clarified butter, pour one pint of hot salmi sauce (No. 193) over, 
to which have been added twelve whole mushrooms, and serve. 

871. Woodcock, Roasted Plain. Procure six fine, fat woodcocks, pick, 
singe, and draw them, putting the hearts and livers on a plate for further 
use. Take out the eyes, and remove the skin from the heads ; truss up 
the feet, skewer them with the bill, and tie a barde of fat pork around the 
breasts ; then chop up all the hearts and livers very fine, with one tea- 
spoonful of chives, half a pinch of salt, a third of a pinch of pepper, and a 
teaspoonful of butter. Prepare six bread canapes (No. 832), two and a 
half inches long, by one and a half wide ; fry them for two minutes in 
very hot fat, drain them thoroughly, and cover each canape with some of 
the above mixture, spreading a little fresh bread-crumbs and a very little 
butter over ; place them in a small baking-pan and lay aside. Now put 
the woodcocks in a roasting-pan with a little butter well spread over the 
birds, and roast them in a brisk oven for ten minutes. Two minutes 
before they are done, put the canapes in the oven, then take both out, and 
lay the canapes on a hot dish ; untie the birds, and arrange them over 
the canapes, decorating the dish with a little watercress. Strain the 
gravy into a sauce-bowl, and serve it separately. 

872. Woodcock, Broiled with Bacon. Pick, singe, draw, pick-out the 
eyes, and remove the skin from the heads of six fine woodcocks ; wipe 
them neatly, and split them through the back without separating the 
parts. Put them on a dish to season with a pinch of salt, half a pinch of 
pepper, and one tablespoonful of sweet oil. Roll them in well, then put 
them on to broil with the bills stuck into the breasts^ Let broil for four 



GAME. 283 



minutes on each side, then arrange them on a clish with six pieces of 
heart-shaped fried bread, covered with the hashed hearts and livers as in 
No. 871, spread a gill of maitre-d'hotel butter (No. 145) over, and deco- 
rate with six slices of broiled bacon (No. 754), then serve. 

873. Salmi of Woodcock a la Chasseur. Pick, singe, draw, pick out 
the eyes, and remove the skin from the heads of six fine woodcocks ; wipe 
them neatly, and put them in a roasting-pan with half a pinch of salt. 
Cook for four minutes in the oven ; then cut off the legs and necks, but 
preserve the heads. Put an ounce of butter into a saucepan, with half a 
raw carrot and half a raw onion, all cut in pieces, a small bouquet (No. 
254), and six whole peppers. Cook for five minutes on the stove, then 
moisten with half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), half a glassful of 
sherry wine, and three tablespoonfuls of mushroom liquor. Season with 
half a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, and let cook for fifteen 
minutes more. Stick a good-sized, fine mushroom in the bill of each 
head, run the bill into the breast of each woodcock, and put them in a 
sautoire ; strain the sauce over, add twelve mushrooms cut in two, and 
the zest of one lemon. Let cook for six minutes more, then arrange 
nicely on a dish, decorating it with six bread croutons (No. 133); pour 
the sauce over, and serve. 

874. Canvas-back Ducks, Roasted. Procure two fine, fat canvas-back 
ducks, pick, singe, draw well, and wipe neatly ; throw a light pinch of 
salt inside, run in the head from the end of the neck to the back, truss 
nicely, and place in a roasting-pan. Sprinkle a little salt over, put them 
in a brisk oven, and let cook for eighteen minutes ; arrange on a very hot 
dish, untruss, throw two tablespoonfuls of white broth (No. 99) into each 
duck, and serve with six slices of fried hominy (No. 1035), and currant jelly. 

875. Canvas-back Ducks, Broiled. Take two fine, fat canvas-back 
ducks ; pick, singe, draw, and wipe them thoroughly. Split them through 
the back without detaching them, and lay them on a dish to season with 
a good pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and a tablespoonful of oil. 
Roll them in well, and put them to broil for seven minutes on each side. 
Dress them on a hot dish, spread a gill of maitre-d'hotel butter over 
(No. 145), decorate with a little watercress, and serve. 

876. Red-head Ducks, roasted Broiled. Red-head ducks roasted are 
prepared exactly the same as ca"nvas-back ducks roasted (No. 874). 

Red-head ducks broiled are prepared exactly the same as for canvas- 
back ducks broiled (No. 875). 

877. Reed-birds, Roasted. Procure twelve freshly killed, fine, fat 
reed-birds ; cut off their legs and wings, pick the eyes out, and remove 
the skin from the heads, clean and wipe them neatly, and with a skewer 
remove the gizzards from the sides, then cover their breasts lightly with 
thin slices of bacon ; arrange them on three kidney-skewers, four on each, 
and lay them in a roasting-pan ; season with a pinch of salt, spread a very 
little butter over, and set them in the oven to roast for seven minutes ; 
remove them to a hot dish with six hot toasts ; garnish with watercress 
and send to the table immediately. 



28z| THE TABLE. 



878. Saddle Of Venison, Jelly Sauce. Procure a saddle of a small 
venison, weighing about five pounds ; pare it neatly, remove the sinews 
from the surface, and lard it with a larding-needle as finely as possible ; 
tie it three times around. Put into the roasting-pan one sliced onion 
and one sliced carrot ; lay in the saddle, seasoning with one pinch of 
salt ; spread half an ounce of butter over, and put it in a brisk oven 
to roast for forty minutes, basting it frequently with its own gravy. 
Untie before lifting it from the pan, arrange neatly on a hot dish ; 
pour into the pan half a glassful of Madeira wine and a gill of white broth 
(No. 99); let come to a boil on the stove. Skim the fat off the gravy, 
straining the lean part over the saddle. Serve with half a pint of hot 
currant-jelly sauce (No. 884) separately. 

All saddles of venison are prepared the same way, only with different 
sauces and garnishings. 

879. Venison Steak, Broiled. Procure from a freshly killed deer a 
fine leg of about five pounds weight; remove the noix, cut it into six 
steaks ; pare and flatten them nicely. Put them on a plate to season with 
a good pinch of salt, a pinch of pepper, the third of a pinch of nutmeg, 
and one tablespoonful of oil. Roll them in well, and put them to broil 
for five minutes on each side. Dress on a hot dish, and spread a gill 
of maitre-d'hotel butter (No. 145) over ; decorate the dish with a little 
watercress, and serve. 

All venison steaks are prepared the same way, only served with dif- 
ferent sauces and garnishings. 

880. Venison Steak, Londonderry Sauce. To be prepared the same 
as for the above (No. 879). Cut into Julienne-shaped pieces half an ounce of 
citron, also the zest of half a small, sound lemon cut in the same way. 
Place them in a saucepan with a glassful of good port wine ; cook for two 
or three minutes at most. Add now a gill of currant jelly, stir all well 
together until the jelly is thoroughly dissolved, add just a little Cayenne 
pepper, but no more than the equivalent of the third of a saltspoonful. 
Allow to come to a boil. Pour the sauce on the hot serving-dish, place 
the steaks one overlapping another, and serve very hot. 

881. Venison Steak, Colbert Sauce. Proceed the same as for No. 879, 
serving with half a pint of hot Colbert sauce (No. 190). 

882. Venison Steak, Puree of Chestnuts. The same as for No. 879, 
serving with half a pint of puree of chestnuts (No. 131). 

883. Venison Steak, Mashed Potatoes. The same as for No. 879, 
serving with a pint of mashed potatoes and a little gravy (No. 998). 

884. Venison Steaks, Currant-Jelly Sauce. The same as in No. 879, 
serving with the following sauce: put in a saucepan on a hot range a 
wine-glassful of good port wine, let it come to a boil ; then add half a 
pint of currant jelly (No. 1326), thoroughly stir until the jelly is well dis- 
solved, pour in a gill of sauce Espagnole (No. 151) ; let again come to a 
boil, then pour the sauce on a hot dish; dress the steaks over it, one 
overlapping another, and send to the table hot. 

885. Venison Chops, Chestnut Puree. Have six fine venison chops ; 



GAME. 285 



pare, flatten a little, and place them on a plate with a good pinch of salt, 
half a pinch of pepper, and a tablespoonful of oil. Roll them in well, and 
put them to broil for four minutes on each side ; arrange half a pint of 
hot puree of chestnuts (No. 131) on a dish. Place the chops over, and 
serve with a good gravy thrown over all. 

886. Civet of Venison, Poivrade Sauce. Procure two and a half pounds 
of venison, the lower part if possible (for the lean parts are preferable), 
cut it into small square pieces, and lay them in an earthen jar, with one 
sliced onion, half a bunch of parsley-roots, a sprig of thyme, two bay- 
leaves, twelve whole peppers, two pinches of salt, half a pinch of pepper, 
and half a glassful of vinegar. Let them marinate for twelve hours. Drain 
off the juice, and put the venison in a sautoire with an ounce of clarified 
butter ; let cook for ten minutes, then add three tablespoonfuls of flour, 
stirring well. Moisten with one and a half pints of broth (No. 99), also 
the marinade-liquor (or juice), well strained. Season with a pinch of 
salt and half a pinch of pepper, and let cook again for forty minutes. 
Arrange the civet nicely on a hot dish, sprinkle a little chopped parsley 
over, and serve. 

887. Civet of Venison a la Franchise. Prepare the venison exactly 
the same as for No. 886, and after marinating it twelve hours, drain it well 
from the marinade-juice, and place it in a saucepan with an ounce of clari- 
fied butter, and let brown for ten minutes on a moderate fire ; then add 
three tablespoonfuls of flour, constantly stirring while adding it. Moisten 
with one and a half glassfuls of red wine, also a pint of hot white broth 
(No. 99). Season with half a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, 
then stir well again until boiling, and add twelve well-peeled, small, sound 
onions, and one ounce of salt pork cut into small, square pieces, also a 
bouquet (No. 254). Let cook all together for forty minutes; and four 
minutes before serving add twelve whole mushrooms. Dress on a hot 
dish, suppress the bouquet, decorate with bread croutons as in No 133, all 
round the dish, and serve. 

888. Civet of Venison a la Parisienne. The same as for the above 
(No. 887), omitting the salt pork, and substituting for it eighteen small 
mushrooms instead of twelve. 

889. Venison Pie a PAmericaine. Have three pounds of venison cut 
into small, square pieces (the parings are preferable) ; place them in a 
saucepan with an ounce of butter, and brown them well for six minutes, 
then add one tablespoonful of flour ; stir well, and moisten with a quart 
of white broth (No. 99) ; throw in six small, glazed, white onions, a bou- 
quet (No. 254), two pinches of salt, one pinch of pepper, and the third of 
a pinch of nutmeg. Let cook on the stove for forty-five minutes with the 
lid on, and when done, lay the stew into a deep dish ; cover with a good 
pie-crust (No. 1077), carefully wetting the edges ; egg the surface with 
beaten egg, make two incisions on each side and a small hole in the centre, 
then bake in the oven for forty minutes. Prepare a dish with a folded 
napkin, lay upon this the dish containing the pie, and serve. 

890. Antelope Steak, Russian Sauce. Prepared exactly the same as 



286 THE TABLE. 



Venison steak (No. 879), and served with half a pint of hot Russian sauce 
(No. 21 1) on the dish, and the steak over it. 

891. Antelope Chops, Port Wine Sauce. Broil six fine antelope chops 
exactly the same as in No. 885. Heat a glassful of port wine in a sauce- 
pan, add two cloves, one bay-leaf, eighteen whole peppers, a gill of cur- 
rant jelly (No. 1326), thoroughly stir until the jelly is completely dis- 
solved, then thicken with half , a gill of sauce Espagnole (No. 151), lightly 
heat again ; then strain on a hot serving-dish, neatly dresc the chops over 
it, and send to the table very hot. 

892. Hare, Roasted, Stuffed. Procure two fine hares, cut them in half, 
that is, separating the fore-quarters from the hind-quarters. Bone the 
saddles down to the legs, but not the legs ; place them on a deep earthen 
dish, pour in a wine-glassful of white wine, adding one medium-sized, 
sound, sliced lemon, one peeled and sliced onion, one sprig of thyme ; 
seasoning with a pinch and a half of salt, a pinch of pepper, and two cloves. 
Roll the saddles well several times in the seasoning, and put aside to 
steep for at least twelve hours. 

Stuffing. Place in a saucepan on the hot range half a good-sized, 
sound, chopped onion with a tablespoonful of butter ; cook for one minute, 
then add two ounces of sausage-meat, six chopped mushrooms, a teaspoon- 
ful of chopped parsley, season with half a pinch of salt and the third of a 
pinch of pepper. Cook all together for six minutes. Let cool, until 
needed. 

Peel four fine, sound apples, cut each into six equal parts, remove the 
cores ; place them in a pan on the fire with half a glassful of white wine or 
good cider. Boil for four minutes, then place this with the above force- 
meat, and mix all well together. 

Take the marinated hares, stuff the saddles (which were boned) with 
the above stuffing evenly, give them a nice round shape, and tie so as to 
hold them firm ; arrange a piece of larding pork over each saddle, then lay 
them in a roasting-pan, with one carrot and one onion cut into slices and 
placed at the bottom of the pan ; pour one pint of white broth (No. 99) 
right over the hares. Place in the hot oven, and roast for forty-five 
minutes, taking care to baste frequently with its own gravy. Remove 
from the oven, untie, dress on a hot dish, strain the gravy over the sad- 
dles, nicely decorate the dish with heart-shaped croutons (No. 133) all 
around, and serve. 

The fore-quarters can be utilized for Civet, etc., as desired. 

893. Civet of Hare a la Franchise. Remove the entire skin from a 
good-sized, tender hare, neatly draw it, preserving the blood, if there is 
any, and also the liver, the gall being carefully removed. Place the blood 
and liver on the same dish, and proceed to cut the hare into twelve pieces. 
Put them into a stone jar, seasoning with one and a half good pinches of salt, 
a good pinch of pepper, a third of a pinch of nutmeg, one sliced onion, 
one sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, and half a glassful of white wine. 
Mix all well together, and steep well for six hours. Lift out the pieces 
of hare, and put them in a saucepan with one ounce of butter, adding 



VEGE TA BLES, 287 



twelve glazed, small onions, and one ounce of salt pork, cut into small 
pieces ; let cook on a brisK fire for ten minutes, then add three tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, stir well, and moisten with a glassful of red wine, also half 
a pint of white broth (No. 99). Stir until it boils, then season again with 
half a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper ; cook for one hour longer, 
and fifteen minutes before it is done put in the blood, heart, and liver, 
finely chopped and all well mixed together. Serve on a dish with six 
croutons (No. 133). 

894. Gribelotte of Hare. Proceed exactly the same as for the above 
(No. 893), replacing the glassful of red wine by a full pint of white broth 
(No. 99), and adding twelve whole mushrooms four minutes before 
serving. 

895. Fillets of Hare, Sauce Poivrade. Have two fine English or 
American hares ; clean them neatly as for No. 893, cut them off from the 
end of the rack, remove the skin from the fillets, and lard the surface with 
a small needle. Put them on a dish, and season with a pinch and a half of 
salt, half a pinch of pepper, and the third of a pinch of nutmeg ; add one 
onion, and one carrot cut in pieces, also three tablespoonfuls of white 
wine. Let all souse together for two hours, then transfer the whole to a 
roasting-pan, with any scraps of pork-rind, one sliced carrot, and a sliced 
onion at the bottom of the pan ; put it in the oven, and let cook for thirty 
minutes. Place the fillets on a dish, add to the pan one gill of hot broth 
(No. 99), let come to a boil, and then strain the gravy over, and serve with 
half a pint of poivrade sauce (No. 194) separately. 

A pinch of salt represents 205 grains, or a tablespoonful. 

Half a pinch of pepper represents 38 grains, or a teaspoonful. 

A third of a pinch of nutmeg represents 13 grains, or half a teaspoonful. 



VEGETABLES. 



896. Artichokes a la Barigoul Lean. Take three large, fine, sound 
French artichokes, parboil them for three minutes, drain, and pare the 
tips as well as the bottoms. Remove the chokes with a vegetable-scoop. 
Place them in a saucepan, with a medium-sized, sliced carrot, one sound, 
sliced onion, and a tablespoonful of good butter. Season the artichokes 
with a pinch of salt only. Cut up very fine one peeled, sound shallot, and 
place it in a separate pan with a tablespoonful of butter, and cook it for 
three minutes, being careful not to let it get brown. Add ten chopped 
mushrooms, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and a teaspoonful of 
finely chopped chervil. Season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of 
pepper. Cook for five minutes, stirring occasionally meanwhile. Then 
stuff the artichokes with the preparation, placing on top of each, one whole 
mushroom. Place them in the hot oven, with a wine-glassful of white 



238 THE TABLE. 



wine and a gill of white broth (No. 99); put the lid on the pan, and cook 
for forty minutes. Remove, and dress them on a hot dish. Add a gill 
of good Allemande sauce (No. 210) to the sauce of the artichokes, heat up 
a little, but do not boil; strain it into a bowl, and serve separately. 

The Same, Fat. Pare the tips, as also the bottoms, of three fine, fresh, 
large French artichokes. Remove the chokes with a vegetable-scoop. 
Place them in a saucepan with half an ounce of butter, one sliced carrot, 
two cloves, one bay-leaf, and one sprig of thyme. Cut up very fine one 
sound, peeled shallot, place it in a saucepan, with one medium-sized green 
pepper cut up in small dice-shaped pieces, and a tablespoonful of sweet oil. 
Cook three minutes. Add a quarter of an ounce of minced cooked ham, 
eight chopped mushrooms, and one tablespoonful of well-cleaned rice. Let 
cook for three minutes. Season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of 
pepper; add a glassful of white wine, cook for five minutes longer. Add 
half a gill of tomato sauce (No. 205), and let cook for five minutes more. 
Stuff the artichokes with the above; arrange a thin slice of larding pork 
on top of each, place them on the hot stove, with half a glassful of white 
wine; boil for two minutes, then add half a gill of white broth (No. 99); 
cover the pan, place in the hot oven, and let cook for forty minutes. 
Remove from the oven; dress the artichokes on a hot dish, add a gill of 
Madeira sauce (No. 185) to the gravy. Reduce it for three minutes; strain 
it into a bowl, and serve separately, very hot. 

897. Artichokes Sautes. Cut six fine, solid, green artichokes into 
quarters, and remove the choke entirely. Trim the leaves neatly, and 
parboil them for five minutes in salted and acidulated water. Remove, 
and drain them thoroughly. Lay them in a sautoire; season with a pinch 
of salt, a pinch of pepper, and add two ounces of good butter. Cover the 
pan with the lid, and set to cook in a moderate oven for twenty-five 
minutes. Take it out, place the artichokes in a deep dish, and serve with 
any desired sauce. 

898. Artichokes a la Duxelle. Chop up finely, and brown for ten min- 
utes in an ounce of butter, six mushrooms, two fine, sound shallots, a 
quarter of a bunch of parsley, and a clove of garlic. Pare six small or 
three large artichokes; remove the choke with a spoon, and fry the tops 
of the leaves in boiling fat for two minutes, being careful to fry only the 
leaves. Place them in a sautoire, covering each artichoke with a thin slice 
of salt pork, and laying a buttered paper on top. Moisten with half a pint 
of hot consomme (No. 100) and half a glassful of white wine. Then place 
them in a moderate oven to braise for thirty-five minutes. When done, 
put the prepared gravy into a gill of Italian sauce (No. 188); place the 
artichokes in a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. 

899. Fried Artichokes. Take three fine, large French artichokes; 
remove the first three or four rows of leaves; cut each artichoke into six 

pieces; remove the choke with a spoon; pare the tips of the remaining 
leaves, and lay the pieces in a bowl, with two tablespoonfuls of oil, a good 
pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, a third of a pinch of nutmeg, and a 
tablespoonful of vinegar. 'Stir all well together. Make a batter as for 



VEGE TA BLES. 289 



No. 1186, dip the artichokes in it, and mix well. Have some fat boiling 
in a deep pan; lift up the pieces with a skimmer and lay them in one by 
one, putting in as many as the -pan will hold. Stir well, detach those 
pieces which adhere to the others, and after twelve minutes, or when they 
are of a golden color, take them out with a strainer. Throw a good hand- 
ful of parsley-greens into the pan, and as the fat ceases to crackle, after 
three minutes, take it up; drain through a napkin sprinkled with a little 
salt. Pile the artichokes on a dish, dome-shaped, garnish with fried pars- 
ley, and serve. 

000. Artichokes, with Sauce. Trim neatly six small raw artichokes; 
pare the under parts, lay them in a saucepan, and cover them partially 
with boiling water, adding a handful of salt and one tablespoonful of 
vinegar. Let them cook for about forty minutes, then draw out a leaf, 
and if it detaches easily, the artichokes are sufficiently done. Take them 
from the water, and put them to drain upside down. Arrange them on a 
dish with a folded napkin, and serve. Artichokes prepared in this way 
can be eaten with white, blonde, Hollandaise, or any kind of sauce. To 
keep the artichokes green, tie a piece of charred wood about the size of 
an egg in a linen cloth, and pour over it the water to be used for boiling 
the artichokes. 

901. Stuffed Artichokes a la BarigOlll. Pare three fine, large, French 
artichokes; cut the under leaves straight, then parboil them sufficiently 
to remove the choke. After laying them in cold water for five minutes, 
and draining them thoroughly, fill the empty space with a forcemeat made 
of half an ounce of hashed salt pork, six minced mushrooms, a teaspoon- 
ful of chopped parsley, and two hashed shallots, and seasoning with half 
a pinch of pepper and a third of a pinch of nutmeg, mixing all well 
together. Tie them up with a string. . Heat three tablespoonfuls of 
olive oil in a pan, and in it brown well the artichokes for three minutes 
on each side. Place them in a sautoire, and put on top of each artichoke 
a small slice of fresh pork or veal, or some butter, adding a glassful of 
broth (No. 99). Cook them in the oven for forty minutes, place the 
artichokes in a hot dish, pour the sauce over and serve. 

902. Artichokes a la Vinaigrette. Prepare and cook three large or 
six small, fine artichokes the same as for No. 900. The large ones are to 
be eaten boiled, cooled, and served with the following sauce in a sauce- 
bowl : pound the yolk of a hard-boiled egg in a bowl, dilute it with two 
spoonfuls of vinegar, season with a pinch of salt, and half a pinch of pep- 
per, a finely chopped shallot, and three tablespoonfuls of good oil. Mix 
well together, and serve. 

The small artichokes may be served in the same way, or they can be 
eaten raw (as they frequently are in Europe), with the choke removed. 
Dress the artichokes on a dish with a folded napkin, and serve the 
sauce in a separate bowl. 

903. Artichokes a la Florentine. Fill six parboiled fresh or conserved 
artichoke-bottoms with a preparation made of fresh sliced mushrooms, 
if at hand, a small, cooked cauliflower, weighing half a pound when pared, 

19 



THE TABLE. 



and stewed in half a pint of bechamel (No. 154), with two tablespoonfuls 
of grated cheese, seasoned with half a pinch of pepper, and the third of a 
pinch of nutmeg. Sprinkle with fresh bread-crumbs, and pour over 
them a little clarified butter; brown in the oven for ten minutes; place the 
artichokes in- a hot dish, pour a gill of hot Madeira sauce (No. 185) over 
them, and serve. 

904. Asparagus, Sauce Hollandaise. Scrape nicely and wash care- 
fully two bunches of fine asparagus ; tie them into six equal bunches, 
arranging the heads all one way, and chop off the ends evenly. Boil 
them until they are done in salted water, or from twenty to twenty-two 
minutes ; lift them out, drain them thoroughly on a cloth, and lay them 
nicely on a dish with a folded napkin. Untie, and serve with half a pint 
of hot Hollandaise sauce (No. 160), in a separate bowl. 

Asparagus with drawn butter is prepared in exactly the same way, and 
is served with a gill of drawn butter (No. 157). 

905. Asparagus a la Vinaigrette. Prepare two bunches of sound 
asparagus as in No. 904, and serve with half a pint of sauce vinaigrette 
(No. 902), after the asparagus has been thoroughly cooled. Asparagus 
can be served in this way either hot or cold. 

906. Asparagus a la Tessinoise. Boil for only twelve minutes two 
bunches of fine fresh asparagus as for No. 904, place them on a dish in 
layers, with grated Swiss or Parmesan cheese between. Lightly brown a 
third of a medium-sized, sound, chopped onion in one ounce of butter, 
and pour over the whole ; sprinkle the top with a little cheese and fresh 
bread-crumbs, and cook in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. 

Take out of the oven, and send to the table in the same dish. 

907. Fried Egg-plant. Peel one medium-sized egg-plant, cut it into 
six round slices, about half an inch in thickness, and season with half a 
teaspoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper. Dip the pieces in beaten 
egg and in fresh bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat for five minutes. 
Remove, salt slightly again, and drain them well; serve on a hot dish over 
a folded napkin. 

908. Broiled Egg-plant. Peel neatly a sound, medium-sized egg- 
plant, and cut it into six even slices half an inch thick, in such a way 
that one egg-plant will be sufficient. Place the slices in a dish ; season 
them with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, and throw over 
them a tablespoonful of sweet oil. Mix well together ; then arrange 
the slices on the broiler, and broil them for five minutes on each side. Re- 
move them from the fire, place them in a hot dish, spread a gill of maitre 
d'hotel (No. 145) over them, and send them to the table. 

909. Stuffed Egg-plant. Cut a good-sized egg-plant into six parts, so 
that the peel remains intact on one side. Make four incisions inside of 
each piece, and fry them for one minute in boiling fat ; dig out the fleshy 
part of the egg-plant with a potato-scoop, and fill it with any forcemeat 
at hand. Sprinkle the top with bread-crumbs and a little clarified butter; 
brown well in the oven for ten minutes, and serve. 

910. Beet-roots, Boiled Plain. Wash a quart of sound, young beet- 



VEGE TA BLES. 2 9 1 



roots thoroughly in cold water. Place them in a saucepan, covering them 
with cold water ; season with a handful of salt and two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar ; put on the lid and cook for one hour and ten minutes. Take 
them from the fire ; lift them from the water, and peel them while they 
are warm. When done, put them in a stone jar ; strain over them the 
liquor in which they were boiled ; spread two tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar on top ; cover them, and put them away in a cool place for use 
when required. 

Beet-roots are generally served as a salad, a hors-d'oeuvre, or a 
garnishing for salad. 

911. Beet-roots Saiitees an Beurre. With the same quantity of beet- 
roots proceed as in No. 910 ; when cooked and peeled, cut them up in 
clove-shaped pieces ; then put them in a sautoire with one ounce of 
butter, seasoning with a pinch of pepper, and sprinkling a very little 
powdered sugar over them. Let them cook on the stove for six minutes, 
carefully tossing them from time to time ; then arrange them in a hot 
vegetable-dish, and serve. 

912. Beet-roots Sautees a la Creme. Proceed the same as in No. 911, 
adding half a pint of hot bechamel (No. 154) three minutes before serving. 

t 913. Mushrooms Saiitees a la Bordelaise. Select a pound of the 
largest, driest, thickest, and firmest mushrooms procurable ; pare neatly, 
wash them well, drain, and cut lozenge-shaped. Place them in an earthen 
dish, sprinkle them with a tablespoonful of good oil, a pinch of salt, and 
twelve whole peppers, and leave them in the marinade for two hours. Take 
them out and stew them for six minutes ; when done, place them on the 
serving-dish, and cover them with the following sauce : Place in a 
sautoire three tablespoonfuls of oil, a teaspoonful of parsley, the same of 
chives, and a clove of crushed garlic, all well chopped. Heat for five 
minutes ; then add them to the mushrooms, which are ready to serve. 

914. Mushrooms Sautes on Toast. Choose a pound of fine, sound, 
large, fresh mushrooms, neatly pare off the ends, clean, and wash them 
well. Drain, and place them in a sautoire with an ounce of good butter. 
Season with a pinch of salt and. half a pinch of pepper. Cover, and let 
them cook for ten minutes, tossing them well meanwhile. Squeeze in the 
juice of half a medium-sized sound lemon; add a pinch of chopped parsley, 
nicely sprinkled over. Place six pieces of toasted bread on a hot dish, 
dress the mushrooms over the toasts, and serve. 

915. Mushrooms Sautes a la Creme. Prepare a pound of fine, fresh 
mushrooms exactly the same as above (No. 914), and if very large cut 
them in two. Place them in a sautoire with an ounce of good butter. 
Season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, then put the lid on, 
and cook on a moderate fire for six minutes; then add two tablespoonfuls 
of velout6 sauce (No. 152), and half a cupful of sweet cream. Cook again 
for four minutes, and serve them in a very hot dish with six heart-shaped 
bread croutons (No. 133) around it. 

916. Mushrooms Broiled on Toast. Pare neatly, wash well, and dry 
thoroughly one pound of fine, large mushrooms. Lay them on a dish, 



292 THE TABLE. 



season with a pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and a tablespoonful of 
sweet oil. Roll them in well; then put them on to broil for four minutes 
on each side; arrange them on a hot dish with six slices of toast; pour a 
gill of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 145) over the mushrooms, and serve. 

917. Blanched Cabbage. Pare off the outer leaves from a medium- 
sized cabbage; cut it into four square pieces, wash thoroughly, dry, and 
put it in a saucepan covering it with salted hot water. Cook for ten 
minutes, drain, and put it into cold water to cool off ; remove from the 
water, and drain again. 

All cabbages are blanched before using them, with the exception of 
stuffed cabbage, which must be left whole. 

918. Cabbage With Cream. Drain, and let cool a well-blanched cab- 
bage (No. 917); chop it up, and place it in a saucepan with two ounces of 
butter, seasoning with a good pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and 
the third of a pinch of grated nutmeg; add a tablespoonful of flour, stir 
well, and moisten with a cupful of cream. Reduce until the cabbage and 
gravy are well incorporated, which will take about forty-five minutes. 
Arrange on a hot dish, and serve. 

919. Stuffed Cabbage. Cut out the root and heart from a medium- 
sized cabbage-head, and pick off several of the outer leavesj parboil the 
rest as for No. 917. After removing it from the fire, open the leaves care- 
fully, so as not to break them; then season the cabbage with a pinch of 
salt and half a pinch of pepper, and fill the inside of the leaves with a good 
sausage forcemeat (No. 220). Close them up, and tie the cabbage so that 
none of the stuffing escapes; then lay it in a sautoire containing one cut- 
up carrot, one cut-up onion, a piece of lard skin, and half a pint of white 
broth (No. 99). Cover with a little fat from the soup-stock; lay a buttered 
paper on top, and let cook for one hour in the oven, basting it occasionally 
with its own juice; untie, and serve with half a pint of Madeira sauce 
(No. 185). 

920. Cabbage for Garnishing. Prepare a cabbage exactly the same 
as for No. 919; divide it into six parts, stuff each one with sausage force- 
meat (No. 220), wrap them up, and tie, rolling them well. Put them in a 
sautoire garnished the same as for the stuffed cabbage, and cook for forty 
minutes in the oven; untie, and serve when needed. 

921. Pork and Cabbage. Pare neatly, and divide a medium-sized 
cabbage into four pieces ; wash them well, parboil for ten minutes, and 
then put them into any kind of vessel with a pound of salt pork, well 
washed, three cervelas, a branch of celery, one onion, two large carrots, 
a blade each of bay-leaf and thyme, half a pinch of pepper, but no salt, 
and cover with a buttered paper. Let simmer on a gentle fire for one 
hour and a half ; then place the cabbage in a dish, using a skimmer ; also 
the pork and sausages, laying them on top ; decorate the dish with the 
rest of the vegetables, and serve. 

922. Brussels Sprouts, Sautes an Beurre. Pare neatly, and pick off 
the outer dead leaves of one pound of imported Brussels sprouts, or one 
and a half pounds of domestic sprouts ; wash them thoroughly, drain, 



V EG ETA BLES. 293 



and cook them in boiling salted water for seven minutes. Drain, and let 
cool in cold water ; drain them once more, then throw the sprouts into a 
sautoire containing two ounces of butter. Season with half a pinch each 
of salt and pepper, adding a teaspoonful of chopped parsley ; cook slightly 
for five minutes ; then serve. 

923. Brussels Sprouts, Sautes a la Creme. Pare, pick, and blanch 
one pound of sprouts as in No. 922. When well drained, put them in a 
sautoire with two tablespoonfuls of veloute (No. 152); season with half a 
pinch of salt, and the third of a pinch each of pepper and nutmeg. 
Add half a cupful of sweet cream. Let them heat, but not boil, for 
five minutes, tossing them frequently ; dress on a hot dish, and 
serve. 

924-. Sourkrout. After washing three pints of imported sourkrout in 
several waters, drain it well, and put it in a saucepan with a large piece 
of well-washed salt pork, three cervelas, two carrots, two whole onions, 
half a cupful of roast meat-fat, six juniper berries, a glassful of good 
white wine, and a pint of white broth (No. 99). Let it cook slowly for 
three hours ; then drain the sourkrout, dish it up with the pork on top, 
which can either be served in one piece, or divided into six slices, 
arranging the cervelas around, nicely dressed. 

925. Cauliflower, Boiled with Butter. Take one large or two small 
cauliflowers ; pare, pick, and examine them well to see if anything 
adheres which should be removed; wash them thoroughly in fresh water, 
and then put in a saucepan, covering with cold water ; season with a 
handful of salt and half a pinch of pepper, and add an ounce of kneaded 
butter. After cooking about thirty minutes, drain them through a colan- 
der, and lay them on a dish, pouring over them a sauce made of one 
ounce of good butter, a third of a pinch of salt, the same of pepper, and a 
tablespoonful of vinegar, then serve. 

Cauliflowers prepared the same way can be served with a white sauce 
or Hollandaise sauce. They are also eaten as a salad when cold. 

926. Cauliflower au Gratm. Pare, pick, cook, and drain one large or 
two medium-sized cauliflowers as for No. 925. Cut off the roots; then 
place them on a buttered baking-dish, covering them with a pint of good 
bechamel (No. 154), to which three tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan 
cheese have been added. Sprinkle the top with three more tablespoonfuls 
of grated cheese and a little fresh bread-crumbs. Place the dish in the 
oven and let it get a golden brown color. It will require about twenty 
minutes' cooking, but care must be taken to turn the dish frequently, so 
that the cauliflower will be equally well browned all over. 

927. Carrots Sautees a la Creme. Pare- off the ends of six good-sized 
carrots, scrape them neatly, wash thoroughly, and cut them in rounds half 
an inch thick. Cook them in white broth (No. 99), (salted water will answer 
as well); cover the saucepan, and let them cook for thirty minutes. Remove, 
drain, and place them in a sautoire, with three tablespoonfuls of bechamel 
(No. 154), and a cupful of cream or milk. Season with a pinch of salt, 
half a pinch of pepper, and the third of a pinch of nutmeg. After tenmin- 



294 



THE 



utes, place them in a hot dish, sprinkle a good pinch of chopped parsley 
over, and serve. 

928. Celery, with Gravy a la Bonne Femme. Procure two bunches of 
fine Kalamazoo celery. If there should be four heads in each bunch, 
reserve two for table celery, as hors-d'oeuvres. Pare the outer branches, 
and clean thoroughly, cutting off the hard and green leaves. Cut them 
into equal lengths, and blanch them in boiling water for five minutes; 
drain, and add half a pint of broth (No. 99) to the water. Put the celery 
into a gill of white roux (No. 135) in a sautoire, and season with a pinch 
of salt, twelve whole peppers, and a third of a pinch of nutmeg. When 
the celery is sufficiently cooked, or after twenty-five minutes, finish 
the sauce with a gill of clear gravy or half an ounce of butter. Place the 
celery in a hot dish, pour the sauce over and serve. 

929. Celery with Creani. Pare nicely four heads of fine celery, and 
cut it into pieces two inches in length; wash thoroughly; remove from the 
water with the hands, and lay it on a napkin. By so doing no sand will 
adhere to the celery. Blanch it in boiling salted water for five minutes; 
remove, drain, and put it in a sautoire with two ounces of butter and one 
tablespoonful of fecula; stir all well together, and moisten with half a 
pint of consomme (No. 100). Cook and reduce the whole for twenty min- 
utes; when done, thicken with two beaten egg yolks diluted in three table- 
spoonfuls of creanij and add the third of a pinch of grated nutmeg. Serve 
garnished with six croutons (No. 133). 

930. Celery a la Moelle de Boeuf. Take six heads of fine celery, cut 
off the green leaves, pare neatly, wash thoroughly, drain, and tie each 
head near the end where the green part has been cut away. Blanch them 
in salted boiling water for ten minutes, then remove, drain, and put them 
in a sautoire, with a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 185). Cook for fifteen 
minutes. Arrange the heads on a hot dish; remove the strings, and add 
to the sauce in the sautoire eighteen slices of marrow half an inch thick. 
Cook for one minute, being careful not to break the pieces of marrow; 
pour the sauce over the celery, and serve. 

931. Cardons a la Moelle. Prepared exactly the same as in No. 930. 

932. Chicory, with Cream or White Sauce. Clean and pick three large 
heads of chicory; throw away all the outer green leaves; wash them in 
two waters, drain, and blanch them in boiling, salted water. Remove 
them after ten minutes, and cool them in fresh water. Take them out, and 
press out the water thoroughly; then chop up the chicory, and place it 
with four ounces of butter in a saucepan, and cook a quarter of an hour, 
or until dry. Pour over it two glassfuls of cream or milk, a very little at 
a time, reduce, and grate in a third of a pinch of nutmeg; add a pinch of 
salt and half a pinch of pepper; stir well together, leave it on for five 
minutes, and serve with six heart-shaped croutons (No. 133) around the 
dish. 

933. Chicory, with Gravy. Take six large, fine, fresh heads of chicory, 
pare any outer leaves that may be damaged, leaving the root intact; wash 
well in two waters, remove, and put them to blanch for ten minutes in 



VEGETABLES. 295 



salted boiling water. Take them out, put them back into cold water, and 
let them cool off thoroughly. Drain neatly, and cut them in halves. Put 
a piece of lard skin at the bottom of a sautoire, add one carrot, one 
onion, both cut up, and a bouquet (No. 254). Place the chicory on top, 
season with half a pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and a third of a 
pinch of nutmeg, and cover with a buttered paper. Place the sautoire on 
the stove, and when the chicory is a golden color (not letting it take 
longer than ten minutes), moisten with half a pint of white broth (No. 
99). Put it in the oven for thirty minutes; arrange the chicory on a hot 
dish, strain the sauce over, and serve. 

934. Chicory for Garnishing 1 . Prepare exactly as for No. 933, using 
it when needed. 

935. Cucumbers a la Poulette. Peel three fine, large cucumbers, 
blanch them in salted boiling water for five minutes, drain, and cut them 
into pieces one inch thick. Place them in a sautoire with one ounce of 
butter, strew over them a pinch of very fine flour, stir well, and moisten 
with half a pint of white broth (No. 99), seasoning with half a pinch t>f 
salt, and the same of pepper. Stir well until it boils, and reduce the 
whole for fifteen minutes, adding a teaspoonful'of chopped parsley, a 
third of a pinch of nutmeg, two beaten egg yolks, and two tablespoonfuls 
of sweet cream. Cook again, without letting it come to a boil, for three 
minutes, and serve. 

936. Cucumbers a la Bechamel. Peel, pare nicely, and blanch six 
small, fine cucumbers in salted boiling water for five minutes. Remove, 
drain, and place them in a sautoire with half a pint of good bechamel 
sauce (No. 154), half an ounce of butter, the third of a pinch of nutmeg, 
and three tablespoonfuls of milk. Cook all together for fifteen minutes, 
and pour the whole on a hot dish, and serv^. 

937. Stuffed Cucumbers. Peel six small cucumbers, pare them care- 
fully and shapely ; cut off the lower ends, and with a vegetable-spoon 
empty them, after extracting all the seeds. Place them in slightly acid- 
ulated water ; rinse them well, and parboil them in boiling water for-three 
minutes. Remove them, and put in cold water to cool. Drain them, 
and fill the insides with a cooked forcemeat made of the breasts of chickens 
(No. 226). Line a sautoire with slices of pork-skin ; add the cucumbers, 
season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, a bouquet (No. 254), 
a glassful of white wine, two cloves, and a spoonful of dripping from any 
kind of roast. Cover with a piece of buttered paper, and place it in a 
slow oven to cook gently for twenty minutes. When done, transfer them 
carefully to a hot dish ; free them entirely from any fat, pour half a pint 
of Madeira sauce (No. 185) over them, and serve. 

938. Stewed Cucumbers for Garnishing. Peel ana slice three large, 
fine cucumbers ; marinate them with a pinch of salt, half a pinch of pep- 
per, a tablespoonful of vinegar, and one sliced onion. Leave them in for 
one hour ; strain, and put the whole into a saucepan with a pint of Espagn- 
ole sauce (No. 151). Cook for twenty minutes ; strain through a fine 
sieve, and use for any garnishing required. 



296 THE TABLE. 



939. Spinach Blanched au Naturel. Take a peck of fresh, sound 
spinach, cut off the stalks, pare neatly, wash it twice in plenty of water, 
lifting it out with the hands. Place it in boiling salted water, and boil it 
for fifteen minutes. Remove, and drain it thoroughly ; place it in cold 
water again, and let it cool. Lift and drain, pressing it well ; lay it on a 
wooden board, and hash it very fine. 

940. Spinach a PAnglaise. Proceed exactly the same as for No. 939, 
but the spinach must not be hashed ; when well drained put it into a 
saucepan with one ounce of butter ; mix well for five minutes, and it will 
be ready for any use desired. 

941. Spinach a la Tieille Mode. After the spinach is blanched and 
well chopped, as for No. 939, put it in a saucepan with an ounce of. butter 
and the third of a pinch of grated nutmeg. Stir with a wooden spoon, 
and cook for five minutes, adding an ounce of butter kneaded with two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, and half a 
pint of milk. Stir frequently, and cook for ten minutes ; then serve, 
garnished with six sippets of bread fried in butter. 

942. Spinach a la Maitre d'Hotel. After blanching the spinach as for 
No. 939, and chopping it very fine, put it dry into a saucepan. Place it 
to simmer on a moderate fire, seasoning with a pinch of salt? half a pinch 
of pepper, and the third of a pinch of grated nutmeg. When warm, add 
an ounce and a half of butter ; stir well, and let it heat for fifteen min- 
utes. Lay it on a hot dish, and decorate it with six bread croutons (No. 
133); then serve. 

943. Spinach, with Gravy. When the spinach is blanched and well 
drained (No. 939), put it in a saucepan with half a cupful of veal-stock 
(either the reduced gravy of a fricandeau, or a glaze), cook for ten min- 
utes, and when ready to serve, add a good ounce of butter ; melt well 
together, and serve with six pieces of fried bread. 

944. Spinach, with Sugar. Season the blanched spinach (No. 939) 
with a very little salt, three lumps of sugar, a little crushed lemon-peel, 
and two pulverized macaroons. Cook slowly all together for ten min- 
utes, and serve surrounded by six lady-fingers (No. 1231). 

945. String- Beans, Blanched. Take two quarts of fresh, tender 
string beans ; break off the tops and bottoms carefully ; string both sides, 
and pare both edges neatly ; wash them well in cold water, lift them, and 
drain. Place them in boiling salted water, and cook for twenty-five min- 
utes. Drain again, and return them to cold water, letting them get thor- 
oughly cool. Lift them out, and dry. They are now ready to use when 
required, for salads or any other purpose. 

946. String Beans, with Cream. Place the blanched beans (No. 945) 
in a saucepan with an ounce of butter, and cook on the stove for five min- 
utes, tossing them well. Season with half a pinch of salt, the same of 
pepper, and add half a bunch of chives and two sprigs of parsley tied 
together. Pour in half a cupful of fresh cream or milk, diluted with two 
egg yolks. Heat well, without boiling, for five minutes. Then serve as a 
hors-d'ceuvre or entremet. Sugar may be added with advantage, if desired. 



VEGE TA BLES. 297 



947. String 1 Beans au Blanc. String the fresh string beans (No. 945); 
if too large, cut them lengthwise, and cook them in water with salt and 
butter; drain, and place them in a saucepan with one ounce of butter; add 
a teaspoonful of parsley and the same of chopped chives. Cook for five 
minutes, and when done, thicken the gravy with half a cupful of cream, 
two egg yolks, and the juice of a lemon. Mix well together for two min- 
utes, and serve, 

948. String Beans a 1'Anglaise. Blanch and cook the beans as for 
No. 945, keep them warm, and of a light green color; place them in a hot 
dish, pour over them a gill of good melted butter, sprinkle a little chopped 
parsley on top, and serve very hot. 

949. String Beans a la Bretonne. Cut a medium-sized onion in dice- 
shaped pieces, and place them in a saucepan with an ounce and a half of 
butter; let it get a good golden color on the stove for five minutes; then 
add a tablespoonful of flour. Stir well, and moisten it with a pint of white 
broth (No. 99). Stir well again, until it comes to a boil; season with half 
a pinch each of salt and pepper. Add the cooked string beans, with a 
clove of crushed garlic, to the sauce; cook for ten minutes; place in a hot 
dish; sprinkle a teaspoonful of chopped parsley over it, and serve. 

950. Beans Panachees. Place half a pint of cooked string beans (No. 
945) and the same quantity of flageolets or Lima beans in asautoire with 
an ounce and a half of good butter; season with half a pinch each of salt 
and pepper; toss them well while cooking for five minutes. Place them 
in a hot dish; sprinkle a light pinch of chopped parsley over them, and 
send to the table. 

951. Red Beans a la Bourguignonne. Take a quart of sound red 
beans; pick out all the small stones that are likely to be mixed with them; 
wash them thoroughly, lay them in plenty of cold water, and let them soak 
for six hours. Drain, and put them in a saucepan, covering them with 
fresh water, adding an ounce of butter, a bouquet (No. 254), and a 
medium-sized onion with two cloves stuck in. Boil for twenty minutes, 
stirring in a good glassful of red wine; season with a pinch of salt and half 
a pinch of pepper, and let it cook again for forty-five minutes. Remove, 
take out the bouquet and onion, and place the beans in a hot, deep dish; 
decorate with six small glazed onions (No. 972) around the dish, and serve. 

Dried red beans, white beans, Lima beans, split dried peas, lentils, or 
any other kind of dried beans, should always be soaked six hours in fresh 
water before using them. 

952. Fresh Lima Beans. Take a quart of fresh, shelled Lima beans, 
or three quarts of unshelled; parboil them in salted water for about 
twenty minutes, then take them from the fire, drain, and let cool in fresh 
water. Drain again, and place them in a sautoire with an ounce and a 
half of good butter, seasoning with half a pinch each of salt and pepper, 
and the third of a pinch of nutmeg. Cook for five minutes, tossing well; 
then moisten with two tablespoonfuls of cream, adding a pinch of chopped 
parsley; mix well together, and serve. 

953. Stuffed Lettuce. Pick, clean, pare nicely, and wash thoroughly 



298 THE TABLE. 



six lettuce-heads; parboil them for five minutes, drain them well, and fill 
the insides with godiveau (No. 221) or sausage forcemeat (No. 220). Tie 
each head, and put them in a sautoire, laying them down carefully, and 
adding a gill of Madeira sauce (No. 185), and a gill of white broth (No. 
99). Season with half a pinch each of salt and pepper, cover with buttered 
paper, and cook in the oven for fifteen minutes. Arrange on a hot dish, 
untie, pour the sauce over, and serve. 

954. Macaroni a la Creme. Boil for three-quarters of an hour three- 
quarters of a pound of Italian macaroni in plenty of salted water, adding 
a small piece of butter (half an ounce), and an onion stuck with two 
cloves. Drain well, and put it back into a saucepan with a third of a 
pound of butter, a third of a pound of grated Swiss cheese, the same 
quantity of grated Parmesan cheese, a third of a pinch of nutmeg, and 
a pinch of pepper. Moisten with half a pint of white broth (No. 99) and 
four tablespoonfuls of cream. Cook all together for five minutes, stirring 
well, and when the macaroni becomes ropy, dish it up, and serve. 

955. Macaroni au Gratin. After the macaroni is prepared as for No. 
954, place it in a baking-dish, sprinkle over it a little bread-crumbs and 
grated cheese ; pour over it a little clarified butter, and place it in the 
baking oven for ten minutes, or until it assumes a golden color; then 
serve. 

956. Macaroni a 1'Italienne. Prepare three-quarters of a pound of 
sound Italian macaroni as for No. 954 ; place it in a saucepan with a gill 
of tomato sauce (No. 205), a gill of Madeira sauce (No. 185), and a quarter 
of a pound of grated Parmesan cheese ; season with half a pinch of pep- 
per and the third of a pinch of nutmeg ; then let cook slowly for ten min- 
utes, tossing frequently. Arrange on a hot dish, and serve with some 
grated cheese, separately. 

957. Macaroni h la NapolitaillO. Boil the macaroni in salt and water 
as for No. 954 ; drain, place it in a saucepan, and add half a pint of good 
Espagnole sauce (No. 151), half a pint of tomato sauce (No. 205), a quar- 
ter of a pound of grated cheese, two truffles, six mushrooms, and half an 
ounce of cooked, smoked beef-tongue, all cut up in dice-shaped pieces. 
Cook together on a brisk stove for ten minutes, tossing them well mean- 
while, and serve. 

958. Macaroni a la Milanaise. Prepare exactly the same as for No. 
957, cutting the truffles, mushrooms, and beef-tongue julienne-shaped. 

959. Spaghetti a la Napolitaine. Boil three-quarters of a pound of 
sound, fine spaghetti as for the macaroni in No. 954; drain, and put it back 
into a saucepan with half a pint of tomato sauce (No. 205), half a pint of 
Espagnole (No. 151), six mushrooms, two truffles, and a small piece of 
cooked, smoked, red beef-tongue, all cut up dice-shaped. Season with 
half a pinch of pepper and the third of a pinch of nutmeg, adding a quarter of 
a pound of grated Parmesan cheese. Cook for ten minutes, tossing well, 
and serve with a little cheese, separately. 

960. Spaghetti a PItalienne. Place the spaghetti in a saucepan as 
for No. 959 ; add a pint of tomato sauce (No. 205), and a quarter of a 



VEGETABLES. 



299 



pound of grated Parmesan cheese ; season with half a pinch of pepper 
and a third of a pinch of nutmeg, and cook for ten minutes, tossing well, 
and serving as in No. 959. 

961. Spaghetti ail Gratin. Prepare three-quarters of a pound of 
boiled spaghetti as in No. 959, place it in a saucepan, moistening with half 
a pint of Allemande sauce (No. 210), and half a pint of bechamel sauce (No. 
154). Season with one pinch of pepper, and the third of a pinch of nut- 
meg, adding a quarter of a pound of grated cheese. Toss well, put it in a 
baking-dish, sprinkle the top with grated cheese and fresh bread-crumbs; 
pour over it a very little clarified butter, and place it in the oven. When 
of a fine golden color,[after about fifteen minutes, take from the oven, and 
serve. 

962. Boiled Green Corn. Pare off the outer leaves and silk of six 
young and tender ears of corn, and place them in a saucepan, covering 
them with water. Add half a cupful of milk, half an ounce of butter, and 
a handful of salt. Cook for twenty minutes, and serve on a folded 
napkin. 

963. Corn Saute il la Creme. Take six ears of cooked green corn, 
prepared as for No. 962, drain, cut off the corn from the cobs with a sharp 
knife, being very careful that none of the cob adheres to the corn. Place 
it in a sautoire with a gill of hot bechamel sauce (No. 154), half a cupful of 
cream, and half an ounce of butter; season with half a pinch each of salt 
and pepper, and the third of a pinch of nutmeg. Cook gently on the stove 
for five minutes, place in a hot dish, and serve. 

964. Corn Saute au Beurre. Proceed as for No. 963, adding one ounce 
of butter, but suppressing the other ingredients. Season the same, but 
cook only for eight minutes, tossing it well. Place in a hot dish, and 
serve. 

965. Corn Fritters. Prepare four young, tender, good-sized, fresh 
ears of green corn exactly as for No. 963; after draining it carefully, place 
it in a china bowl; season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pep- 
per, and add two fresh eggs, a quarter of a pound of well-sifted flour, 
and half a pint of cold milk, Do not beat the mixture, but stir it 
vigorously with a wooden spoon for five minutes, and it will be suffi- 
ciently firm. Butter well a frying-pan, take a kitchen ladle that contains 
the equivalent of a gill, and with this put the preparation into the pan in 
twelve parts; be careful they do not touch one another, and let them get 
a good golden color on each side for four minutes. Dress them on a 
folded napkin, and serve. 

966. Barley Fritters. The same as in No. 965, substituting boiled 
barley for corn. 

967. Glazed Turnips, with Gravy. Pare, and cut pear-shaped, twelve 
equal-sized, small white turnips; parboil them for five minutes, and drain 
them when done. Butter the bottom of a sautoire capable of holding them, 
one beside the other, and let them get a golden color, adding half a pint of 
powdered sugar. Moisten with half a pint of white broth (No. 99), half a 
pinch of salt, and add a very small stick of cinnamon. Cover with a but- 



3OO THE TABLE. 



tered paper cut the shape of the sautoire, and place it in the oven to cook for 
twenty minutes. When the turnips are cooked, lift off the paper. Place 
the turnips on a hot dish, and reduce the gravy to a glaze for six minutes. 
Arrange them nicely on a dish, pour half a gill of good broth (No. 99) 
into the saucepan to loosen the glaze, remove the cinnamon, and throw 
the sauce over the turnips. 

068. Onions, with Cream. Peel twelve medium-sized, sound onions ; 
pare the roots without cutting them, and place them in a saucepan ; cover 
with salted water, add a bouquet (No. 254), and cook for forty-five min- 
utes. Lift them from the saucepan, and lay them on a dish ; cover them 
with half a pint of cream sauce (No. 181), mixed with two tablespoonfuls 
of the broth they were cooked in, and serve. 

969. Fried Onions. Peel, pare, and slice round-shaped, four medium- 
sized onions. Lay them first in milk, then in flour, and fry them in very 
hot fat for eight minutes. Lift them up and lay them on a cloth to dry. 
Serve on a dish with a folded napkin, with a little fried parsley. 

970. Stuffed Onions. Peel six medium-sized Spanish onions ; empty 
out the centres with a vegetable-scoop ; parboil them for three minutes, 
and turn them upside down on a cloth to drain. Fill the insides with 
sausage forcemeat (No. 220). Line the bottom of a sautoire with a piece 
of lard skin, and one carrot and one onion, both cut up ; lay the onions 
on top, and moisten with half a pint of broth (No. 99). Cover with a but- 
tered paper ; then put it in the oven to glaze for forty minutes, taking 
care to baste frequently. Place them in a hot dish ; strain the gravy over 
them, and serve. 

971. Minceil Onions. Peel and pare three medium-sized onions ; cut 
them in two, and mince them into fine slices. Place them in a sautoire, 
with half an ounce of butter, and let them get a good golden color on the 
stove for ten minutes, tossing them briskly. Place them in a bowl, and 
use when required. 

972. Glazed Onions for Garnishing. Select one quart of small onions; 
peel the sides only, and pare the roots neatly, being careful not to cut 
them. Place them in a sautoire with half an ounce of clarified butter, 
and sprinkle them with half a pinch of powdered sugar. Glaze them in a 
slow oven for fifteen minutes ; place them in a stone jar, and use for gar- 
nishing when required. 

973. S,orrel ail Maigre. Pick off the stems from half a peck of 
sorrel ; wash it in several waters, drain, and chop up with a head of 
well-cleansed lettuce. Add half a bunch of chervil, and chop all together 
very fine. Place all in a saucepan, stir well together on the hot stove 
for three minutes, and then place it in the oven until the vegetables are 
well dissolved ; then add an ounce and a half of butter, and stir again for 
about ten minutes, or until the sorrel is reduced to a pulp. Season with 
a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, and pour into it a thickening of 
two egg yolks and half a cupful of cream ; stir well, without boiling, and 
serve. 

974. Sorrel au Gras. Dissolve the same quantity of sorrel as in No. 



VEGE TA BLES. 30 1 



973, adding enough butter to form it into a perfect pulp (one ounce and 
a half will answer); stir it until it begins to bubble ; then moisten it with 
half a pint of gravy or good stock, roast-beef gravy, or reduced broth. 
Cook it for five minutes, and use this puree as a sauce for various meats. 

975. Stuffed Peppers. Fry for one minute only, six medium-sized 
green peppers in very hot fat ; drain and skin them properly, and cut a 
round piece off the bottom to use for a cover. Remove the insides, and 
fill them with a good sausage forcemeat (No. 220); put on the round cover 
previously cut off, and lay them on an oiled baking-tin. Moisten the pep- 
pers lightly with sweet oil, and place them in a slow oven to cook for fif- 
teen minutes; then arrange them on a hot dish, and serve with a gill of 
demi-glace sauce (No. 185). 

976. Green Peas a PAnciemie Mode. Take three quarts of unshelled, 
young, tender green peas ; shell them carefully, and keep them wrapped 
up in a wet napkin until needed. Clean, drain, and tie up a lettuce-head; 
put it in a saucepan with the peas ; season with a pinch of salt ; cover 
with a glassful of water, and add a quarter of a pound of very good but- 
ter. After cooking for a quarter of an hour, remove the lettuce, and when 
ready to serve, thicken the peas with three spoonfuls of cream, diluted 
with one egg yolk, adding half a pinch of white pepper, and a spoonful of 
powdered sugar. Let all thicken together for five minutes, and serve 
immediately in a tureen. 

977. Green Peas a la Fran<^aise. Shell carefully three quarts of fine, 
young, tender, fresh green peas, and place them in a saucepan with one 
ounce of butter and half a cupful of water. Knead together with a 
wooden spoon ; strain off the water, and add a bouquet (No. 254), one 
small onion, a well-cleansed lettuce-heart, half a pinch of salt, and a tea- 
spoonful of powdered sugar. Cover the saucepan, and cook very slowly 
for half an hour ; remove the bouquet and onion ; lay the lettuce upon a 
dish, incorporate into the peas half an ounce of fresh butter, and cook 
until it thickens, which will require at least five minutes. Pour the peas 
dome-fsktmed over the lettuce, and send to the table. 

978. Green Peas a 1'Anglaise. Procure the same quantity of green 
peas as for No. 977; put them in a saucepan, and cover them with boiling 
water. Add a handful of salt, and boil quickly, without covering, for fifteen 
minutes. Skim the water as soon as the scum rises. When done, strain 
them through a colander, return them to the saucepan, and toss them well, 
adding an ounce and a half of fresh butter. * Dish them in a vegetabte- 
dish, place another half ounce of butter in the middle, and serve. 

979. Green Peas a la Bourgeoise. Shell three quarts of tender green 
peas; put them in a saucepan, and toss the peas quickly in a gill of, light 
roux (No. 135); moisten with a pint of boiling water, adding half a pinch 
each of salt and pepper, a bouquet (No. 254), and a raw lettuce-heart. 
Reduce it for twenty minutes, or until all the juice has evaporated; then 
add two raw egg yolks well beaten, with three tablespoonfuls of sweet 
cream. Stir quickly for four minutes, without allowing it to boil, and 
then serve, removing the bouquet. 



302 



THE TABLE. 



980. Green Peas, with Cream. Put one ounce of butter in a saucepan 
with one tablespoonful of flour kneaded well together. Dissolve it; then 
add the shelled peas as for No. 977, a bouquet (No. 254), a quarter of a 
bunch of chives, a pinch of salt, and half a pinch of pepper. Cook in 
their own juice for twenty minutes, then take the saucepan from off the 
fire. Pour the gravy from the peas into another vessel, add to it half a 
cupful of cream and a teaspoonful of powdered sugar; pour this sauce 
over the peas, and heat up once again without boiling, for two minutes, 
before serving. 

981. Green Peas, with Bacon. Brown in a saucepan half an ounce of 
batter with two ounces of small, dice-shaped pieces of bacon, and when of 
a good golden color, take them out, and put a spoonful of flour into the 
fat to make a roux. Moisten with a pint of white broth (No. 99); replace 
the bacon, add the raw shelled peas, as for No. 977, one whole onion, a 
bouquet (No. 254), and half a pinch of pepper. Cover, and let cook on 
the corner of the stove for thirty minutes; place in a hot, deep dish, and 
serve. 

982. Potatoes, Boiled Plain. Take twelve medium-sized, fine, sound 
potatoes; wash them thoroughly, peel off a piece of the skin, about half an 
inch wide, around each potato, to ensure mealiness, and lay them in a 
saucepan, covering them with cold water, and adding half a handful of 
salt; place the lid on, and cook for forty-five minutes. Drain, lay a nap- 
kin on a hot dish, in which you envelop the potatoes, and serve. 

983. Broiled Potatoes, Peel six medium-sized, sound, cooked pota- 
toes; cut them in halves; lay them on a dish, and season them with a 
pinch of salt. Pour two tablespoonfuls of melted butter over them, and 
roll them well in it. Arrange them on a double broiler, and broil them 
on a moderate fire for three minutes on each side. Place them in a hot 
dish, with a folded napkin, and serve. 

984. Potatoes a la Genevroise Peel, wash, and drain four medium- 
sized, sound potatoes; cut them into julienne-shaped pieces, and wash and 
drain them again. Season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of*pepper. 
.Butter lightly six tartlet-molds with clarified butter; cover the bottoms 
with grated Parmesan cheese; arrange a layer of potatoes on top, sprinkle 
more cheese over them, and continue until all are filled, finishing by 
sprinkling cheese over the surface and dropping a little clarified butter 
over all. Set them on a very hot stove for two minutes; then place in a 
hot oven, and bake them for twenty-five minutes. Unmold, and place 
them in a hot dish, with a folded napkin, and serve. 

985. Potatoes, Maitre d'Hotel. Take eight medium-sized potatoes, 
boiled as for No. 982; peel them, cut them into slices, and place them in 
a saucepan, with an ounce of butter and a pinch of chopped parsley, and 
season with half a pinch each of salt and pepper, the third of a pinch of 
nutmeg, and the juice of half a lemon. Warm all together, toss well, and 
add half a cupful of cream; heat slightly once more, and serve. 

986. Potatoes, Parisienne. Take six good-sized, well-cleansed pota- 
toes; with a round vegetable-spoon cutout the Parisian potatoes; then put 



VEGETABLES. 303 



them in fresh water; wash well, and drain. Melt an ounce of butter in a 
sautoire, throw in the potatoes, and season with half a pinch of salt. 
Place the sautoire in the oven; cook for twenty minutes, and serve on a 
hot dish with a folded napkin. 

987. Potatoes a PAnglaise a Cru, Wash well six medium-sized, 
sound potatoes; cut them into quarters, pare them neatly, clove-garlic- 
shaped; wash again, drain, and place them in a saucepan. Cover with 
water, throw in a heavy pinch of salt, put the lid on, and cook for twenty 
minutes. Drain, and put them in a saucepan, with an ounce of butter, a 
pinch of chopped parsley, heat slowly for five minutes, toss gently, and 
serve. 

988. Potatoes a PAnglaise. Wash well six good-sized potatoes; boil 
them in salted water for forty-five minutes; peel, and cut them each into 
quarters. Melt an ounce of butter in a saucepan; add the sliced potatoes, 
half a pinch of salt, and the third of a pinch of pepper. Cook them on a 
very slow fire for five minutes, tossing them well, and serve on a very hot 
dish, sprinkling a little chopped parsley over them. 

989. Potatoes, with Bacon. Cut one ounce of bacon or pork into 
small pieces; put them in a saucepan, with half an ounce of butter; cook 
for five minutes; add a spoonful of flour; stir, and brown well for four 
minutes. Moisten with a pint of white broth (No. 99), and cook for five 
minutes longer. Put in eight well-peeled, washed, and sliced raw pota- 
toes; season with half a pinch of pepper and the third of a pinch of nut- 
meg; lay the lid on, and cook for twenty-five minutes. Then skim off the 
fat, and serve in a hot, deep dish. 

990. Potatoes a Pltalienne. Boil eight medium-sized potatoes in 
boiling water, as for No. 982 ; peel, put them in a saucepan, and mash 
them. Add a piece of butter of one ounce, and a piece of fresh bread the 
size of a French roll, suppressing the crust, and soaking it in milk. Add 
two more tablespoonfuls of milk, in order to form a pliable paste, three 
fresh egg yolks, and the whites of the three beaten to a froth ; season 
with half a pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and the third of a pinch 
of nutmeg. Mix well together, and pile it high on a baking-dish ; pour 
over it a little melted butter; sprinkle a little Parmesan cheese over; place 
it in the oven, and after ten minutes, when of a good golden color, serve. 

991. Potatoes a la Lyonnaise. Cut eight potatoes, boiled, as for No. 
982, into round slices ; lay them in a frying-pan with an ounce and a half 
of butter, and the round slices of a previously fried onion, and season 
with half a pinch each of salt and pepper. Cook well together for six 
minutes, until well browned ; toss them well, and serve with a pinch of 
chopped parsley sprinkled over the whole. 

992. Stnffed Potatoes. Wash and peel about six large potatoes ; cut 
them, lengthwise, in two, and scoop out the centres carefully with a knife 
or spoon. Fill the cavities with a sausage forcemeat (No. 220), letting it 
bulge out a little on the top ; butter a baking-pan, arrange the potatoes 
on it, and cook in a slow oven for half an hour, or until nicely browned, 
then serve* 



304 THE TABLE. 



993. Fried Potatoes. Peel and wash six large potatoes, cut them up 
into fine slices, a quarter of an inch in thickness ; plunge them into very 
hot, clarified beef suet or fat, and cook slowly. When they are soft, lift 
them out with a skimmer (it generally takes ten minutes to cook them) ; 
heat the fat again to boiling-point, and put the potatoes back. Smooth 
them down with a skimmer, and after two minutes they will swell up 
considerably ; lift them out with the skimmer, drain, sprinkle a pinch of 
salt over, and serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin. These potatoes 
answer for garnishing chops and other meats. 

994. Potatoes Sautees ail Beurre. Peel and clean eighteen small, 
round, raw potatoes, new ones if possible ; place two ounces of butter in 
a saucepan ; place it on a hot fire, adding the potatoes ; cook them until 
they are a golden color, which will take fifteen minutes, then drain. 
Sprinkle over them a pinch of table-salt, and arrange them on a dish 
without any further seasoning than a little chopped parsley ; then 
serve. 

995. Potatoes Sautees. Take eight good-sized boiled and peeled 
potatoes (No. 982); cut them in slices a quarter of an inch in thickness; 
place them in a frying-pan with an ounce and a half of good butter. 
Season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper ; toss well for eight 
minutes, dress on a very hot dish, and serve with a little parsley sprinkled 
over. 

996. Potato Balls. Peel, clean neatly, and boil in salted water for 
thirty miuutes, eight good--sized, sound, round, yellow potatoes ; drain 
and return them to the same pan, and mash them well, adding two egg 
yolks, and the whites beaten to a froth, three tablespoonfuls of cream, a 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley, very little chives, half a pinch of salt, and 
the third of a pinch of nutmeg. Mix well together for two minutes, and 
dip about half a tablespoonful at a time into frying batter (No. 1185). 
Slide them into very hot fat, and leave them in for three minutes ; this 
swells them, and forms them into a species of fritters. Place in a very 
hot dish with a folded napkin, and serve. 

997. Potato Croquettes and Quenelles. Peel, wash, and drain nicely 
eight medium-sized mealy potatoes ; cut them in quarters, put them in a 
saucepan, cover them with water, add a pinch of salt, cook for thirty min- 
utes, and drain. Lay them in a mortar with an ounce of fresh butter, 
pound them well, and add three raw egg yolks. Season with half a pinch 
each of salt and pepper and the third of a pinch of nutmeg ; mix well, and 
then divide into twelve parts, shaping each one like a cork, or any other 
shape desired. Dip them separately into beaten egg, and roll them in 
fresh bread-crumbs ; fry a golden color for three minutes, and serve on a 
dish with a folded napkin. 

998. Mashed Potatoes. Peel, wash, drain, and cut into quarters eight 
good-sized potatoes ; put them in a sautoire, cover with water, add a good 
pinch of salt, and boil for thirty minutes. Drain, rub them through a 
puree strainer, and put them in a saucepan with an ounce of butter, and 
half a pinch each of salt and white pepper. Stir well, adding half a cup- 



VEGETABLES. 305 



ful of hot milk, until it becomes of a good consistency. Serve, garnished 
with six pieces of bread fried in butter. 

999. Potatoes a PHollandaise. After boiling eight good-sized pota- 
toes as for No. 982, peel, and cut them into quarters ; put them in a sau- 
toire with an ounce of butter and half a pinch of chopped parsley ; season 
with half a pinch each of salt and pepper, toss them gently, and warm 
them slightly for five minutes. Place in a hot dish, and serve. 

Sweet potatoes a 1'Hollandaise are prepared the same way. 

1000. Potatoes a la Gastronome. Peel, clean, and with a No. 3 tube 
cut twelve medium-sized potatoes into inch-and-a-half-long pieces. Place 
them in a saucepan ; cover with water, add a pinch of salt, and cook for 
twenty-five minutes. Drain, and place them in a hot dish ; pour a gill of 
hot Perigueux sauce (No. 191) over them, and serve. 

1001. Potatoes a la Bignon. Prepare twelve potatoes as for No. 982; 
empty them with a potato-scoop, leaving the bottoms uncut ; blanch them 
in boiling water for two minutes ; drain, and fill them with sausage force- 
meat (No. 220). Lay them in a buttered sautoire ; place it in the oven, 
and cook for twenty minutes. Use for any garnishing desired. 

1002. Hashed Potatoes, Sautees. Hash eight medium-sized, cold, 
boiled potatoes ; place an ounce and a half of good butter in a frying- 
pan, add the potatoes, season with half a pinch each of salt and pepper, 
and toss them well in the pan for two minutes. Give them the shape of 
an omelet, and let them take a golden color, which will require five min- 
utes. With a spoon take up all the butter which lies at the bottom of the 
pan ; slide the potatoes carefully on a hot dish, and serve. 

1003. Hashed Potatoes, with Cream. Hash eight cold, boiled pota- 
toes, and place them in a sautoire ; add half a cupful of cream and half an 
ounce of butter ; season with half a pinch each of salt and pepper, and the 
third of a pinch of nutmeg ; stir well with a wooden spoon for five min- 
utes, until well heated, and serve. 

1004. Hashed Potatoes, with Cream an Gratin. Prepare the potatoes 
as for No. 1003 ; place them in a dish (a silver dish preferred); sprinkle 
over them two tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, and two table- 
spoonfuls of fresh bread-crumbs ; spread well over them a piece of butter 
the size of a nut ; then place the dish in the oven. After, ten minutes, 
when a good golden color, serve. 

1005. Potatoes en Surprise. Prepare some potatoes as for croquettes 
(No. 997); form them into twelve balls the size of a good-sized egg ; scoop 
out the centres, and fill in with a salpicon (No. 256). Close the opening 
with a little more potato ; dip them in beaten egg, then in fresh bread- 
crumbs, and fry them in very hot fat for three minutes. Lift, drain, and 
serve them on a hot dish with a folded napkin. 

1006. Potatoes a la Duchesse. Place some croquette preparation (No. 
997) in a bag, and squeeze it upon a buttered baking-sheet, forming it 
into any shape required, and with a light hair brush cover the surface 
with a beaten egg. Brown lightly in the oven for eight minutes, and 
serve for various garnishings. 

20 



306 THE TABLE. 



Balls can also be formed about the size of an egg ; spread a little flour 
on the table ; place the balls on top, and flatten them, shaping them 
nicely ; cover the surface with a beaten egg ; brown lightly in the oven 
on a buttered baking-sheet for eight minutes, and serve. 

1007. Potatoes a la Rice. Peel, wash, and drain eight medium-sized 
potatoes. Cut them into half-an-inch-square pieces ; place them in a 
frying-pan with an ounce and a half of butter; season with a pinch of salt, 
toss well, and let them get a golden color (fifteen minutes will suffice). 
Drain the butter from the bottom of the pan, and place the potatoes in a 
hot dish; sprinkle a pinch of chopped parsley over, and serve. 

1008. Potatoes a la Windsor. Peel, and clean nicely, twelve large 
potatoes; cut them into balls with a Parisian potato-scoop, then place them 
in a saucepan, covering them with water containing a pinch of salt. Cook 
for fifteen minutes; then strain them and place them in another saucepan 
with an ounce of fresh butter and a pinch of chopped parsley. Warm 
them well for five minutes, and add the juice of half a lemon before 
serving. 

1009. Potatoes, Chateau. Cut six medium-sized potatoes into quarters, 
and pare them like cloves of garlic; wash them well, and drain. Fry 
them slowly in moderately heated fat for ten minutes; lift, drain thor- 
oughly, and put them in a sautoire with half an ounce of butter. Season 
with half a pinch of salt, heat well for two minutes, and serve. 

1010. Potatoes, Soufflees. Peel eight good, mealy potatoes, and cut 
them into even pieces a quarter of an inch in thickness, shaping them as 
oval as possible. Fry them in moderately heated fat for eight minutes; 
then lift them out, and lay them aside for a few moments; plunge them 
into boiling hot fat, and the potatoes will swell considerably. Drain, and 
serve them on a dish with a folded napkin. 

Sweet potatoes soufflees are prepared the same way. 
N. B. When cutting the potatoes for a soufflee, a continuous, sharp, 
and rapid cut should be made, so as to have them to perfection. 

1011. Potatoes, Saratoga. Peel and clean six medium-sized potatoes; 
cut them with a sharp Saratoga potato-knife into thin slices; place them in 
cold water, wash thoroughly, drain, and plunge them into very hot fat for 
eight minutes. Take them out, drain thoroughly, and sprinkle over them 
half a pinch of salt. Serve them on a dish with a folded napkin. 

1012. Potatoes a la Hanna. Peel, wash, and drain six medium-sized 
potatoes; cut them into as thin slices as possible; then wash them well 
again. Take a flat mold large enough to contain the potatoes, butter it 
well; put in a layer of potatoes, then a very light layer of grated cheese; 
season with a very little salt, and the same of pepper. Cover with another 
layer of potatoes, season again the same as before (the whole not to exceed 
half a pinch of each); then spread half an ounce of butter over them. 
Place the mold in the oven, and cook for thirty minutes; remove, turn it 
upside down on a hot dish, unmold, and serve. 

1013. Potatoes, Julienne. Peel and clean six medium-sized potatoes; 
cut them into square pieces two inches long by the third of an inch wide; 



VEGETABLES. 



307 



wash well, and drain; place them in very hot fat for six minutes, then lift 
them out, and lay them on a cloth to drain. Sprinkle half a pinch of salt 
over, and serve them on a dish with a folded napkin. 

1014. Potatoes en Faille (Straw). Prepare the same as in No. 1013, 
cutting a little thinner. 

1015. Rice, Plain Boiled. Clean and wash neatly a quarter of a pound 
of Italian rice ; place it in a saucepan with a pint and a half of cold water 
and a pin, h of salt ; put the lid on, and boil for twenty-two minutes. 
Pour through a colander, being careful to let it drain thoroughly without 
crushing the rice, otherwise it will be spoiled. When well dried, return 
it to the saucepan, put the lid on, and leave it on the corner of the stove 
to dry gradually for five or six minutes. It will now be ready to use as 
required. 

1016. Rice a la Ristori. Wash well and drain a quarter of a pound of 
good Italian rice; shred two ounces of bacon into small pieces, and 
place them in a saucepan with a medium-sized, chopped-up, raw cabbage, 
letting them steam for thirty minutes. Add a pinch of salt, half a pinch 
of pepper, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley ; put in the rice, and 
moisten with half a pint of white broth (No. 99). Cook for fully a quarter 
of an hour longer, and serve with grated Parmesan cheese sprinkled 
over it. 

1017. Risotto a la Milanaise. Chop rather fine one good-sized, very 
sound, peeled onion. Melt two ounces of very good butter in a sauce- 
pan on a very brisk fire ; add the onions, brown them for six or seven 
minutes, or until they have obtained a good golden color ; then add ten 
ounces of well-picked Italian rice (a heaped cupful), with two good-sized 
chopped truffles ; stir well with the spatula without ceasing for one and 
a half minutes, then add one quart of boiling and strained white broth (No. 
99), lightly stir once only, and cook for fourteen minutes. Add six fine 
chopped mushrooms, and little by little, at intervals, another quart of 
boiling wh'ite broth stirring almost constantly with the wooden spatula 
while cooking, very rapidly, for ten minutes more. Season with a heavy 
half-teaspoonful of salt, a light saltspoonful of white pepper, adding one 
and a half ounces of grated Swiss cheese, and a heaped teaspoonful of 
Spanish branch saffron, diluted in two tablespoonfuls of hot white broth, 
and strained. Cook for three or four minutes longer, stirring continually 
meanwhile ; then pour it into a hot soup-tureen, and send to the table 
with a little grated Swiss cheese, separate. A little beef-marrow can be 
added to advantage, by making a small cavity in the centre, while yet 
in the pan, one minute before the time to serve, and plunging into it one 
tablespoonful of marrow. 

1018. Oyster-plant Saute au Beurre. Scrape nicely a large bunch of 
fine oyster-plant; plunge it into cold water containing two tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar, so as to prevent it from turning black. Take it from the water, 
drain, and cut it into two-inch-long pieces. Place them in a saucepan, 
with two tablespoonfuls of vinegar and two tablespoonfuls of flour; mix 
well; cover with plenty of cold water and a handful of salt; put the lid 



308 THE TABLE. 



on, and let them boil slowly for forty minutes. Then drain, and return 
them to a sautoire, with an ounce and a half of the best butter procurable; 
season with half a pinch of pepper, the juice of half a lemon, and a tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley. Heat well for five minutes, tossing occa- 
sionally; then place them in a hot, deep dish, and serve. 

1019. Oyster-plant a la Poulette. Scrape nicely a good-sized bunch 
of fine, fresh oyster-plant; plunge it at once into acidulated water, and 
when well washed, drain, and cut it into two-inch pieces. Place them in 
a saucepan, and boil them in plenty of water, adding two pinches of salt, 
two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and the same quantity of diluted flour. 
After forty minutes, or as soon as they bend to the finger, they are done. 
Lift them out, drain them well, and serve with a pint of hot poulette sauce 
(No. 598) poured over them. 

1020. Oyster-plant Saute a la Creme. To be cooked the same as 
for No. 1019; but after draining them, place them in a sautoire with a gill 
of bechamel sauce (No. 154) and a gill of sweet cream. Season with half 
a pinch of salt, a quarter of a pinch of pepper, and the third of a pinch of 
nutmeg. Let all heat well together for five minutes, stirring lightly with 
a wooden spoon, and serve in a hot, deep dish. 

1021. Fried Oyster-plant. Cook a good bunch of oyster-plant as for 
No. 1019, and, when done, put it in a dish, and season with half a pinch 
each of salt and pepper, and a tablespoonful of vinegar. Dip it well in a 
good fritter batter (No. 1190), and fry it in very hot fat for five minutes, 
separating the pieces with a spoon. Lift them up with a skimmer, drain 
on a cloth, sprinkle a very little salt over them, and serve on a folded 
napkin, decorating with a little fried parsley. 

1022. Succotash. Place six medium-sized, freshly cooked, and scraped 
ears of green corn (a can of canned corn will answer the purpose) in a sauce- 
pan, with half a pint of boiled Lima beans, adding a good-sized piece of butter 
weighing about an ounce, a pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, the third 
of a pinch of grated nutmeg, and half a pint of milk. Heat it well for five 
minutes, add two tablespoonfuls of good, hot bechamel (No. 154); stir 
thoroughly, and serve. 

1023. Stuffed Tomatoes. Wash and dry well six fine, sound red 
tomatoes. Cut the top of each up, without detaching, so that it will serve 
as a cover. Scoop out the inside of each with a vegetable-scoop; and 
place on a plate for further action. Season the inside of the six emptied 
tomatoes with one pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, equally divided. 
Chop very fine one medium-sized, sound, peeled onion; place it in a sauce- 
pan with half an ounce of butter; and cook for three minutes on a brisk 
fire, being careful not to let get brown. Add six chopped mushrooms and 
one ounce of sausage-meat. Season with one pinch of salt and half a pinch 
of pepper; cook for three minutes, stirring once in a while. Add now the 
tomatoes which were scooped out, with half a cupful of fresh bread-crumbs 
and a teaspoonful of fresh chopped parsley. Mix well together, and cook 
for two minutes longer, or until it comes to a boil; then place in a bowl to 
cool. Stuff the emptied tomatoes with the above preparation, close down 



VEGETABLES. 309 



the covers, gently lay them on a tin plate (dish), cover them with a but- 
tered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for eighteen minutes, and serve. 

Stuffed tomatoes are served as a garnishing in various ways. 

For egg-plants, the same stuffing is used, but instead of tomatoes, use 
the scooped out egg-plant. 

Green peppers the same, using half a very finely chopped-up green 
pepper in place of the tomatoes. 

1024. Stufted Tomatoes a la Heine. Prepare six tomatoes exactly the 
same as in No. 1023, substituting chicken forcemeat (No. 226) for the 
sausage meat, and pouring a gill of hot Madeira sauce (No. 185) on a hot 
dish, and dressing the tomatoes over. 

1025. Broiled Tomatoes. Take six good -sized, firm, red, fresh 
tomatoes; pare the underparts in case anything adheres, wipe them nicely, 
and slit them in halves. Lay them on a dish; season with a good pinch 
of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and a tablespoonful of sweet oil; mix well 
together; keep the tomatoes in as good shape as when cut, then arrange 
them in a double broiler. Put them on a moderate fire, and cook for eight 
minutes on each side. Place in a hot dish; spread a gill of maitre d'hotel 
butter (No. 145) over them, and serve. 

1026. Tomatoes a la Bock. Wipe neatly and peel eight fine, sound, 
fresh tomatoes; cut each one into six equal-sized pieces, and place them 
in a saucepan with two ounces of fresh butter, seasoning with a pinch of 
salt, half a pinch of pepper, and the third of a pinch of nutmeg. Cover 
the pan, and place it on the hot stove to cook for fifteen minutes. Take 
from off the fire, pour the tomatoes intS a deep, hot vegetable-dish, and 
send them to the table very hot. 

1027. Stewed Tomatoes. Plunge six good-sized, fresh, sound tomatoes 
into boiling water for half a minute; drain, nicely peel them, cut each one 
into six pieces; put them into a saucepan with an ounce and a half of good 
butter, season with half a pinch each of salt and pepper, and the third of 
a pinch of nutmeg. Cook slowly for twenty minutes, and add a very little 
powdered sugar (half a teaspoonful will be sufficient). Stir well, and 
cook for two minutes longer; then place in a hot, deep dish, and serve. 

1028. Roasted Tomatoes. Plunge in boiling water for half a minute 
six good-sized red, sound tomatoes; drain, and peel them neatly, then cut 
away the tops without detaching them entirely, and remove the seeds with 
a teaspoon. Divide an ounce of good butter into six equal parts, and put 
a piece into each tomato, seasoning with a light saltspoonful of salt, and 
half the quantity of pepper. Close the tops, and lay them in a buttered 
baking-dish, moistening each tomato with a very little sweet oil. Put 
them in a hot oven, and bake for twelve minutes. Remove, and with a 
cake-turner dress them on a hot dish, and serve. 

1029. Tomatoes a la Marseillaise. Take six good-sized, firm, red 
tomatoes ; wipe, and cut them in halves through the sides. Place half a 
gill of sweet oil in a frying-pan ; let it heat well ; lay in it the tomatoes 
on the sides which were cut, and cook briskly for one minute. Butter 
well a tin baking-dish, and lay the tomatoes in this on the uncooked side, 



3IO THE TABLE. 



and season with half a pinch each of salt and pepper. Make a stuffing 
with one shallot, finely chopped, two cloves of crushed garlic, two hard- 
boiled egg yolks, a teaspoonful of chopped chives, the same of parsley, 
two medium-sized, finely chopped anchovies, and an ounce of butter. Mix 
well together in a bowl, and cover the tops of the tomatoes with the stuff- 
ing, dividing it equally. Sprinkle a little fresh bread-crumbs over them ; 
drip three or four drops of clarified butter over each tomato ; then place 
them in a very hot oven for eight minutes. Place them neatly on a hot 
dish, and serve. 

1030. Okras, Plain Boiled. Take twenty-four medium-sized, sound 
okras, and wash them well in cold water. Drain thoroughly, and pare 
both ends. Have a saucepan containing salted boiling water, into which 
plunge the okras, and' let] them cook for fifteen minutes. Lift them out 
with a skimmer, and lay them on a cloth to drain. Use the boiled okras 
for sauteing, salad, or any other purpose desired. 

1031. Okras, Sautes a la Creole. Prepare twenty-four okras as for 
No. 1030. Place in a sautoire one ounce of good butter, one medium- 
sized minced onion, and a medium-sized, minced green pepper. Place on 
the stove for six minutes, until it is of a golden color, and add two raw, 
peeled tomatoes cut into pieces, three tablespoonfuls of Espagnole (No. 
151), a pinch of salt, the third of a pinch of pepper, and one crushed clove 
of garlic. Add the okras, put the lid on, and cook slowly for fifteen min- 
utes. Place in a hot, deep dish, sprinkle over them a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley, and serve. 

1032. Macedoine of Vegetables. Cut a small, raw carrot with a vege- 
table-scoop ; put it into salted boiling water, and cook for fifteen minutes; 
repeat with a small, raw turnip, cooking each separately ; drain, and place 
them in a saucepan with half a gill of cooked peas, the same quantity of 
cooked half-inch lengths of string beans, two tablespoonfuls of cooked 
flageolets, and a small piece of cauliflower, if at hand. Moisten with half 
a pint of hot bechamel (No. 154), and season with half a pinch each of 
salt and pepper, and the third of a pinch of nutmeg. Let it simmer well 
for ten minutes, and use when required. 

1033. Jardiniere of Vegetables. -Prepare exactly as in No. 1032, sub- 
stituting half a pint of hot Madeira sauce (No. 185) for the bechamel. 

1034. Boiled Hominy. Wash a quart of very white hominy in fresh 
water ; drain, put in a saucepan with a quart of cold water, and place it 
on the fire, adding a pinch of salt. Boil for thirty minutes, stirring it 
well, and serve. 

1035. Fried Hominy. After preparing the hominy as for No. 1034, 
put it to cool, and cut it into six slices. Dip each slice in beaten egg, 
roll them in fresh bread-crumbs, and fry in very hot fat until of a good 
golden color, for four minutes. Serve on a folded napkin, or use for 
garnishing when required. 

A pinch of salt represents 205 grains, or a tablespoonful. 

Half a pinch of pepper represents 38 grains, or a teaspoonful. 

A third of a pinch of nutmeg represents 13 grains, or half a teaspoonful. 



SALADS. 3 I I 



SALADS. 



1036. Salad a 1'Italienne. Pare well a good-sized carrot and a good- 
sized turnip ; cut them with a vegetable-scoop, and cook them in separate 
salted waters ; the carrot fifteen minutes, and the turnip ten. Drain, let 
cool, then place them in a salad-bowl, dome-shaped. Cut two good-sized 
truffles into julienne-shaped pieces ; keep them apart, and cut up six 
mushrooms the same way, also the breast of a cooked, medium-sized 
chicken, cut likewise. Cover the vegetables with a cluster of the truffles, 
the same of the mushrooms, and repeat with the chicken, keeping each 
article separate ; form a small cavity in the centre of the dome, pour into 
it a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, a tablespoonful of vinegar, one table- 
spoonful of sweet oil, a pinch of salt, and half a pinch of pepper. Cover 
the cavity with a piece of cooked cauliflower, or Brussels-sprouts, or in 
default of both, cooked asparagus -tops will answer the purpose ; send to 
the table, and mix well before serving it to the guests. 

1037. Anchovy Salad. Have eighteen bottled anchovies (or the same 
quantity of Norwegian anchovies if possible), soak them in cold water for 
two hours, so they are thoroughly unsalted, then drain them in a cloth, 
and remove the bones. Clean and pare a small head of lettuce, cut it into 
small pieces, and put it in a salad-bowl, covering it with two tablespoon- 
fuls of Tartare sauce (No. 207). Decorate with the anchovies, two hard- 
boiled eggs cut in quarters, twelve capers, six stoned olives, and a small, 
cooked, sliced beet-root ; season with half a pinch of pepper and one 
tablespoonful of vinegar. When ready to serve mix well together. 

1038. Barbe de Capucine. Take two bunches of clear, white, fresh 
barbe de capucine ; clean, and wipe them carefully and thoroughly, but 
do not wash the salad, as it loses its taste, and renders it too soft to use ; 
cut it into three shreds, and place it in a salad-bowl. Mix well, in a 
wooden salad-spoon, two spoonfuls of vinegar, half a pinch of salt, and 
the third of a pinch of pepper, and pour it over the salad, then add one 
spoonful of oil, mix well, and serve immediately. 

1039. Beef Salad. Take one pound of lean, boiled, cold beef, the 
rump-part in preference ; suppress all the fat, then cut it into pieces an 
inch and a half in length, as thinly as possible. Place the pieces in. a bowl, 
season with a pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and two medium-sized, 
cooked, and sliced potatoes, also a pinch of parsley, two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, and the same of sweet oil. Mix all well together, then arrange 
in a serving salad-bowl ; decorate with six medium-sized pickles or beets, 
and serve. 

1040. Cauliflower Salad. Take a medium-sized head of cooked cauli- 



312 THE TABLE. 



flower ; pare off the root, and detach it into equal-sized flowerets ; place 
these in a salad-bowl, seasoning with a pinch of salt, half a pinch of pep- 
per, and sprinkle over a pinch of chopped parsley ; add three tablespoon- 
fuls of vinegar, two of good oil, and mix all well together with a wooden 
spoon, then serve. 

1041. Celery Salad. If- the heads of celery be large and white, use 
two; if they should be small, use three. Pare off the green stalks, trim 
the roots nicely, and cut it into short shreds ; wash thoroughly in cold 
water, lift it up with the hands, and drain in a cloth. When well drained, 
place the celery in a salad-bowl, and season with a pinch of salt, half a 
pinch of pepper, and one and a half wooden salad-spoonfuls of vinegar, 
also the same quantity of oil. Mix well, and serve. 

1042. Celery Salad, Mayonnaise Dressing-. Prepare the celery exactly 
the same as for No. 1041 ; and when in the salad-bowl, season with half a 
pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and three tablespoonfuls of mayon- 
naise dressing (No. 206). Mix well just before serving. 

1043. Chapon, for Chicory and Escarole Salad. Cut a thin crust, off 
a French loaf of bread, two inches long by one inch square, sprinkle over 
it a very little salt, then take a good-sized clove of sound garlic ; rub it 
over both sides of the bread-crust, reject the peel which adheres, and lay 
the crust at the bottom of the salad-bowl ; place the salad over, and mix 
thoroughly together, serving immediately. 

1044. Chicken Salad. Take a young, tender chicken of two and a 
half pounds ; boil it in the soup-stock for one hour, or should it be a 
fowl, it will take from half to three-quarters of an hour longer ; when 
cooked, let it get thoroughly cold. Bone the chicken, cut it up into small 
pieces, and put them into a deep dish ; season with a pinch of salt, half a 
pinch of pepper, one tablespoonful of vinegar, and six leaves of chopped 
lettuce, or a few leaves of the white of celery in preference, cut up. Mix 
well, place it in a salad-bowl, and cover with half a cupful of mayonnaise 
dressing (No. 206); decorate the top with a chopped, hard-boiled egg, 
a tablespoonful of capers, twelve stoned olives, quarters of two hard- 
boiled eggs, and six small, white lettuce leaves around the dish, then 
serve. 

1045. Chicory Salad, Plain. Procure two medium-sized heads of 
white, fine, fresh chicory ; pare off the green leaves, and cut away the 
root. Wash thoroughly, drain well in a salad-shaker or a linen napkin, 
then place it in a salad-bowl ; season with half a pinch of salt and the 
third of a pinch of pepper, diluted in a salad-spoonful of vinegar, and add 
one and a half salad-spoonfuls of sweet oil. Mix thoroughly together, and 
send to the table. 

1046. Chicory Salad ail Chapon. Prepare the salad exactly the same 
as for the above (No. 1045), only adding a chapon (No. 1043). 

1047. Crab Salad. Take twelve hard-shelled, live crabs; boil them in 
salted water, with half a cupful of vinegar, for twenty minutes; then drain 
and shell them. Pare off the gills; put a finger in the centre, to prevent 
the sand getting in the cavity; wash thoroughly and quickly under the 



SALADS. 313 



faucet, then pick the meat from the shell; put it in a salad-bowl and pro- 
ceed the same as for the salmon salad (No. 1066). 

1048. Dandelion Salad, Plain. Procure a quart of very fresh, white 
dandelion; pare the roots and stale leaves, if any; then wash thoroughly 
in two different waters; drain nicely on a cloth, and place in a salad-bowl. 
Dilute a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper in a salad-spoonful of vin- 
egar, adding one and a half spoonfuls of sweet oil; mix thoroughly to- 
gether, and serve. 

1049. Dandelion Salad, with Eggs. Proceed the same as for the 
above (No. 1048), only adding, when serving, two hard-boiled eggs cut 
in quarters. 

1050. Dandelion and Beet-root Salad. Take half the quantity of dan- 
delion salad as for the plain (No. 1048); put it in a salad-bowl, adding two 
medium-sized, cooked beet-roots (No. 919); cut into thin slices, and sea- 
son it exactly the same as for No. 1049. 

1051. Dandelion a la Contoise. Pare and clean a quart of fine white 
dandelion; wash well in two different waters; then drain in a cloth, and 
place it in a salad-bowl. Season with a third of a pinch of salt and half 
a pinch of pepper; cut two ounces of bacon in dice-shaped pieces, put 
them in a frying-pan, place it on the stove, and let them get a good 
golden color, for about five minutes; put them into the salad; then place 
two tablespoonfuls of vinegar in the pan, and let it heat for half a minute; 
pour it over all, mix well together and serve. 

1052. Doucette Salad, Plain. Take a quart of very fresh doucette, 
pare off the outer stale leaves, if any; also the roots, and wash well in 
two waters; drain in a napkin, and then place it in a serving salad-bowl. 
Season with one pinch of salt, and a half pinch of pepper diluted in a 
wooden salad-spoonful of vinegar; also with one and a half spoonfuls of 
sweet oil. Mix well together when ready to serve, but not before. 

1053. Doucette Salad, with Beet-roots. Use a pint of doucette only, 
and three medium-sized cooked beet-roots, cut in slices; place them all in 
a salad-bowl, and season the same as for the above (No. 1052). 

1054. Doucette Salad, with Hard-boiled Eggs. Proceed the same as 
for doucette salad (No. 1052), only when ready to serve, decorate with two 
hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters. 

1055* Escarole Salad. Have two heads of fine, white escarole; pare 
off the green leaves and cores. If the escarole be tolerably clean, wipe it 
carefully without washing it, as it should not be washed unless plenty of 
earth adheres to it. Place it in a salad-bowl, and season with half a pinch 
of salt and the third of a pinch of pepper, mixed in a wooden salad- spoonful 
of tarragon-vinegar, adding one and a half spoonfuls of oil. Mix well just 
before serving. 

1056. Lamb-tongue Salad. Have six cooked, pickled lamb's tongues; 
pare them neatly, and cut them into very thin slices; lay them in a dish, 
adding two cooked and sliced potatoes, a pinch of salt, half a pinch of 
pepper, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and the same quantity of sweet 
oil. Mix the whole well together, then dress it in a bowl, sprinkle a little 



314 THE TABLE. 



chopped parsley over, and decorate with a few small lettuce-leaves. Send 
to the table. 

1057. Lettuce Salad, Plain. Take two fine, white heads of lettuce; 
pare off the outer green leaves and stems; cut the leaves in two, wash 
well in cold water, drain thoroughly in a wire basket, then place it in a 
salad-bowl, with the hearts on top. Mix half a pinch of salt and the 
third of a pinch of pepper in one salad-spoonful of vinegar, adding one 
and a half salad-spoonfuls of good sweet oil; pour this seasoning over the 
lettuce, mix all well together, and send to the table. 

Lettuce salad should never be dressed longer than five minutes before 
the time to serve it. 

1058. Lettuce Salad with Hard-boiled Eg-g-s. Dress a lettuce salad 
the same as for the above (No. 1057), and just before serving add two 
hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters. 

1059. Lettuce Salad With Oeam. Prepare a lettuce salad the same 
as for No. 1057, substituting three tablespoonfuls of sweet cream for the 
oil. 

1000. Lettuce and Tomato Salad. Take a white head of lettuce, pare 
off the outer green leaves and core, wash, drain in a wire basket, then cut 
the leaves in two, and put them in a bowl. Have two fine, firm, peeled 
red tomatoes, prepared as for No. 1070, cut them into thin slices, and 
place them over the lettuce, seasoning as follows: Mix a pinch of salt 
and half a pinch of pepper in a wooden salad-spoonful of vinegar; add a 
spoonful and a half of oil, mix well, and serve. 

1061. Lobster Salad. Take three pounds of boiled lobster; shell, and 
cut the meat into small pieces; lay them in a deep dish, seasoning with a 
pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and a tablespoonful of vinegar, adding a 
few branches of the white of celery, likewise cut up. Mix well together, then 
transfer it to a salad-bowl, and pour over half a cupful of good mayon- 
naise dressing (No. 206), decorate with two hard-boiled eggs cut into 
quarters, six leaves of lettuce, twelve stoned olives, a tablespoonful of 
capers, and a little of the lobster coral, hashed well. Decorate nicely, 
according to taste, and serve. 

1062. Lobster Salad a la Plummer. Take two fine, freshly boiled, 
medium-sized lobsters; cut them in two, and pick out all the meat from 
the shell, carefully abstracting the gall. Cut the meat into small, equal- 
sized, square pieces, and place them in a salad-bowl; shell three hard- 
boiled eggs, lay them on a plate, and with a knife chop them up as 
thoroughly as hashed potatoes; then add this to the lobster, also two finely 
chopped shallots, two teaspoonfuls of freshly chopped chives, and one 
and a half teaspoonfuls of finely chopped parsley. Take half a head of 
good and well-cleaned lettuce, chop it up very fine, add it to the lobster; 
then season with a pinch and a half of salt, a light pinch of fresh and finely 
crushed white pepper two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls 
of good sweet oil, and three tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise sauce (No. 206). 
Gently but thoroughly mix the whole together, then wipe well the edges 
of the salad-bowl with a napkin, and send this delicious salad to the table. 



SALADS. 3 I 5 



1068. Salad MacecMne. Have a medium-sized carrot and turnip; 
peel, and wash them well, then cut them with a vegetable-scoop; put them 
into separate boiling salted waters, and cook the carrot fifteen minutes, 
and the turnip ten. Drain, and let thoroughly cool; place them in a 
salad-bowl with three tablespoonfuls of cooked peas, the same quantity of 
string beans cut into small pieces, a pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, 
two tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, and one and a half tablespoonfuls of vine- 
gar. Mix all thoroughly together. If there be any cooked cauliflower 
on hand, use it for decorating the bowl, or a few asparagus-tops or 
Brussels-sprouts will answer. Send to the table at once. 

1064. Romaine Salad. Take two good-sized hearts of fine romaine; 
remove the outer greens; wipe, washing it carefully. Drain, then place 
it in a salad-bowl, sprinkling over a teaspoonful of chopped chives, half a 
teaspoonful of chopped chervil, the same of tarragon, and season with one 
pinch of salt, and half a pinch of pepper, diluted in a wooden salad-spoon- 
ful of vinegar, and one and a half spoonfuls of sweet oil. Mix thoroughly 
together, and serve immediately. 

1065. Russian Salad. Cut up separately, in small dice-shaped pieces, 
one ounce of cooked roast beef, same of cooked ham, same of cooked beef- 
tongue, same of cooked chicken, same of lean leg of cooked mutton, and 
two truffles cut into very small dice-shaped pieces. Put them in a salad- 
bowl, separating each kind by six boned anchovies; then pour a table- 
spoonful of Tartare sauce (No. 207) in the centre, covering the sauce with 
two chopped leaves of lettuce. Send it as it is to the table; for it should 
be mixed together just before serving only. 

1066. Salmon Salad. Procure a piece of good salmon, plunge it into 
cold, salted water; add half a cupful of vinegar, one sliced carrot, one 
sliced onion, a bouquet (No. 254), and let cook for thirty minutes; drain, 
put aside to cool; then pare off the skin, and bone the salmon completely. 
When done, tear or break it into small pieces. Place these in a bowl, 
seasoning with a pinch of salt, a pinch of pepper, three tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, and a pinch of chopped parsley. 
Mix all well together; then decorate the salad-bowl with six small lettuce- 
leaves, six stoned olives, twelve capers, and two hard-boiled eggs cut in 
quarters. Send to the table. 

1067. Shrimp Salad. Have a quart, or two pint boxes, of boiled and 
skinned shrimps, and proceed the same as for lobster salad (No. 1061). 

1068. String-bean Salad. Take a quart of cooked string beans, and 
prepare it exactly the same as the cauliflower salad (No. 1040). 

1069. Suedoise Salad. Cut two ounces of cooked beef-tongue into 
small pieces; cut two cooked potatoes the same; also half a peeled apple, 
half a cooked beet-root, and half a cooked carrot. Place these in a bowl, 
adding the fillets of a boned herring cut in small pieces, and season with 
half a pinch each of salt and pepper, a teaspoonful of diluted mustard, one 
tablespoonful of vinegar, and one and a half tablespoonfuls of oil. Mix 
all well together, then transfer to a serving salad-bowl, sprinkle over a 
pinch of chopped parsley, and serve. 



316 THE TABLE. 



1070. Tomato Salad, French Dressing. Take six fine, firm, red toma- 
toes; wipe them neatly, and plunge them into boiling water for one min- 
ute; drain in a cloth, remove the skins, pare off the stem side, let get cool, 
and then cut them into very thin slices; or, if preferred, into quarters, 
keeping them in a bowl, so that the juice be not wasted. Season with a 
pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, a wooden salad-spoonful of vinegar, 
and the same quantity of oil. Mix thoroughly together, and serve as cold 
as possible. A teaspoonful of chopped chives may be added, if desired, 
which will give a delicious flavor. 

1071. Tomato Salad, Mayonnaise Dressing. Prepare six tomatoes, 
the same as for the above (No. 1070), and when sliced, or quartered, in the 
salad-bowl, season with a pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and two 
good tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise dressing (No. 206); mix well, and 
serve very cold. 

1072. Watercress Salad. Procure three bunches of sound, fresh 
watercress ; clean, and pare off the stalks, wash well, then dry in a cloth, 
place it in a salad-bowl, seasoning with half a pinch of salt, just a little 
pepper, and two wooden salad-spoonfuls gf vinegar ; mix well, and serve. 
Watercress salad does not require any oil. 

1073. Potato Salad. Peel ten medium-sized, sound, freshly cooked 
potatoes ; cut them into small slices, lay them in a salad-bowl, and add a 
finely chopped onion and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Season with 
a pinch and a half of salt, one pinch of peppet, half a gill of vinegar, and 
three tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, then mix thoroughly and gently with a 
spoon and fork, without breaking the potatoes. Wipe the bowl neatly 
with a napkin, and send the salad to the table. 

1074. Herring Salad. Take three medium-sized smoked herrings, 
lay them on the corner of the stove for half a minute on each side, then 
tear off the skin, cut off the heads, and split them in two ; remove the 
bones, and cut them up into small square pieces. Place them in a salad- 
bowl with half a hashed onion, two hard-boiled eggs, cut in pieces, 
a cold boiled potato cut the same, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 
Season with half a pinch of salt, one pinch of pepper, three tablespoon- 
fuls of vinegar, and two of oil. Mix well together, and decorate with a 
small, cooked beet-root cut in slices, also twelve capers; then serve. 

1075. Japanese Salad. Mince three medium-sized truffles very fine, 
also two large, cold, boiled potatoes ;.put the whole into a bowl, and 
season with half a pinch each of salt and pepper, and the third of a pinch 
of nutmeg ; pour half a glassful of champagne over all, and let rest for 
two hours, then add eighteen whole cooked mussels (No. 379), a tea- 
spoonful of chopped chives, and the same quantity of chopped parsley. 
Mix all well together, then dress the salad into a bowl, decorating it with 
six small, white lettuce-leaves and six fillets of anchovies; then serve. 

A pinch of salt represents 205 grains, or a tablespoonful. 

Half a pinch of pepper represents 38 grains, or a teaspoonful. 

A third of a pinch of nutmeg represents 13 grains, or half a teaspoonful. 



DESSERTS. 



317 



DKSSKRTS: 

PASTRY, JELLIES, ICES, PRESERVES, ETC. 



1076. Feuilletage, or Puff Paste. Have ready one pound of flour, one 
pound of fresh butter, one pint of ice-water, and a saltspoonful of salt. 
If the butter be salted instead of fresh, no salt is necessary, but wash the 
butter well before using it. Put the flour on the table, make a hollow 
space in the centre, then put in it one ounce of the butter, adding the pint 
of ice-water and the salt, and mix the whole well together, incorporating 
it gradually. Put it aside in a cool place for five minutes. Have ready 
the remaining fifteen ounces of butter, which must be very firm ; sprinkle 
the space of a square foot of the table with a very little flour, place the 
dough on it, then lengthen and widen with a wooden roller to the thick- 
ness of half an inch, and lay the fifteen ounces of butter in one lump in 
the centre. Fold over the four edges so as to enclose it, then flatten 
again lightly with the roller until it forms a piece two inches thick, and 
then put it away to cool for ten minutes. Roll it again lengthwise, fold 
it in four, and let it rest for another five minutes ; then repeat the same 
twice more, rolling it each time in a contrary direction. After five min- 
utes it will be ready for use. This feuilletage, or puff paste, if put away 
carefully in a cool place, will keep for three days, and can be used for the 
following purposes : vol-au-vents of chickens, oysters, clams, shrimps, 
lobsters, codfish, crabs, and crawfish; also for making chicken patties, 
bouchees a la reine, all kinds of tarts, allumettes, mille-feuilles, chaus- 
sons, turnovers, petits pates a la religieuse, etc., etc. 

1077. Paste for Pies. Sift on a table one pound of flour ; make a 
hollow space in the centre, pour into it a pint of cold water, two ounces 
of butter, and half a saltspoonful of salt; then, with the hand, knead the 
ingredients well together for two minutes, and gradually and slowly incor- 
porate the flour with the rest for four minutes. Lay the paste on a dish, and 
put it to rest in a cool place for three minutes. Have ready six ounces of 
well-washed butter in one lump, as for feuilletage (No. 1076); return the 
paste to the table, flatten it slightly, then put the lump of butter in the 
centre, fold over the edges, so as to enclose the butter, then roll it out 
lengthwise with the pastry roller, and -refold the paste into three folds. 
Let it rest again in a cool place for three minutes, then roll it again, fold 
it as before, and set it in the ice-box for five minutes ; the paste will now 
be ready to use, and by keeping it in the ice-box it will remain in good 
condition for three days. 

1078. Pate-a-Foucer, Foundation Paste. Sift one pound of flour on 



318 THE TABLE. 



the table, make a hollow in the centre, and pour into it half a pound of 
well-washed butter, a saltspoonful of salt, and a gill of cold water. Knead 
well the salt, butter, and water, using the hand, for two minutes, then 
incorporate the flour gradually, which will take three minutes more, and 
knead sharply with the hands. Detach it from the table, and roll it into 
a ball, then press it again on the table in different directions for two 
minutes ; remove again from the table. Flour the table slightly, lay the 
paste over, and with the fingers of the right hand press down the paste in 
the centre, and with the left bring up the edges all around to the centre, 
repeat this three times, and when finished the paste must have its original 
shape ; lay it on a dish, cover with a towel, and set it in a cool place to 
rest for twenty minutes. 

1079. How to Make a Pastry-bag, for General Use. Cut a piece of 
white duck-cloth as follows: twenty-four inches wide at the top, twenty 
inches deep, and three inches at the lower end. Fold, and sew up length- 
wise, so as to make a perfect cornet-bag. Hem the top and the bottom, 
and the pastry bag will then be ready for use. 

The accompanying design will show how it should be made. 




PASTRY-BAG. 



This pastry-bag is essential and useful for kitchen and pastry use, being 
both facile and economical, but care must be taken to wash it thoroughly, 
and immediately after using it, and to let it dry perfectly, otherwise it 
will soon become useless. 

1080. How to Clean and Prepare Sultana Currants and Raisins for 
Pastry. To avoid the trouble of preparing them each time they are 
needed, it were better to clean many at a time, for they will keep in 
perfect condition for five or six months, if put away in a well-closed tin 
box. Procure ten pounds of currants or Sultana raisins, lay them on a 
table, and should they be damp, dredge a little flour over to prevent them 
adhering to the hands. Rub them thoroughly, then take a wire sieve, 
No. 3 (or as fine a one as will prevent them passing through), place the 



DESSER TS. 



319 



currants on it, and shake them well for two or three minutes, so that they 
be perfectly free from flour and stalks. Lay the sieve containing the 
currants in a large dish-pan, filling it to the level of the sieve with hot 
water, then, with a skimmer, stir them, so that they get washed thoroughly 
for at least five minutes. Lift up the sieve, and let them drain in the 
same for three minutes. Cover an iron oven-pan with a- sheet of brown 
paper, pour the currants on it, spreading them out evenly, and set it in a 
very slow oven for ten minutes; remove, and lay them aside in the warm- 
est spot on the kitchen shelf, and leave them to dry thoroughly for at least 
two days. If in the country, the pan can be left out in the sun during the 
day. When dry, lay them on the table, and should any more foreign 
matter be found. among them, pick it out carefully with the fingers, and 
examine them well to see whether they be free of stones, stalks, stems, 
sand, &c. When finished, put them away in a closed tin box, and they 
will then be ready for use. 

1081. How to Clean Malaga Raisins. Have as many Malaga raisins 
as deemed necessary, but it were better to purchase five pounds at a 
time. Lay the raisins on a table, have a bowl of cold water on the right 
hand, and the raisins in front; pick off the dry stalks adhering to them, 
then, either using a small knife or the fingers, pick out the seeds, taking 
care to wet the fingers in the bowl of water, so as to prevent them stick- 
ing while seeding them. Close up again, giving them their original form; 
when finished, put them in a tin can, cover well, and place in a moderate 
temperature for use when required. Raisins prepared in this way will 
surely keep six months. 

1082. Mince Pie. Put into a vessel two ounces of currants, prepared 
as for No. 1080, two ounces of Sultana, and three ounces of Malaga raisins, 
as for No. 1081, one ounce of finely chopped citron, two ounces of well- 
chopped, cold, boiled beef, and two ounces of beef-suet, also chopped 
very fine. Mix the whole well together for five minutes, then add 
one ounce of powdered sugar, a saltspoonful of salt, one drachm 
of ground allspice, half a drachm of ground cloves, half a drachm 
of ground cinnamon, and mix together for one minute. Peel, core, 
and chop up very fine three large, sound apples, add them to the prepa- 
ration, then pour in half a gill each of brandy and sherry wine, mixing 
again for three minutes. Take half a pound of pie-paste as for No. 1077, 
cut out a piece of three ounces, roll it round-shaped, ten inches in diameter, 
and lightly butter a pie-plate nine and a half inches in diameter, Arrange 
the paste over, and pour the preparation in the centre, flattening it evenly, 
and leaving an inch space clear around the edge of the plate ; take the 
remaining five ounces of paste, roll it out round-shaped, the same as 
before, fold it in two, and, with a knife, make incisions in the centre, of half 
an inch each. Moisten lightly the edge of the plate with a little beaten 
egg, then cover with the paste, pressing down with the hand all around 
the edge, so as to inclose the preparation entirely, then moisten the surface 
slightly with the beaten egg. Place in a moderate oven, and let bake for 
fifty minutes; remove it to the oven-door, sprinkle plenty of powdered 



320 THE TABLE. 



sugar over, return it to the oven, closing the door for two minutes, so 
that the sugar melts entirely, then slide it carefully onto a dessert-dish, 
and serve either hot or cold. 

1083. Apple Pie. Peel, core, and slice four medium-sized, fine, sound 
apples; put them into a vessel, and add three ounces of powdered sugar 
and a saltspoonful of ground cinnamon. Have a plate covered as for the 
above (No 1082); arrange the apples on top, cover, and finish exactly the 
same as for the mince pie. Serve cold. 

1084. Pear Pie. Peel and slice six medium-sized, fine, sound, pears; 
put them into a vessel with three ounces of powdered sugar; put this over 
a lined plate, and proceed exactly the same as for mince pie (No. 1082). 

1085. Rhubarb Pie. Pare off the leaves, and peel the stalks neatly 
from two bunches of fine rhubarb, cut them into small pieces about half 
an inch long, and put them in a vessel with three ounces of powdered 
sugar; mix well; lay them on the pie-plate, cover, and bake the same as 
for mince pie (No. 1082). 

1086. Lemon Pie. Take one and a half pounds of apple sauce (No. 
1328), put it in a vessel, adding one ounce of powdered sugar, and one 
ounce of corn-starch; grate in the peel of a medium-sized lemon, squeezing 
in the juice of two others, and mix the whole well together with a spatula 
for three minutes. Pour the preparation over a lined plate, as for mince 
pie (No. 1082), cover, and finish exactly the same. 

1087. Pineapple Pie. Procure a medium-sized, fine, sound, pineapple; 
pare, peel, and slice it into fine slices, laying them in a vessel, and mixing 
in three ounces of powdered sugar. Have a pie-plate lined with paste, as 
for mince pie (No. 1082), spread over one tablespoonful of apple sauce 
(No. 1328); arrange the pineapple nicely on top, then take three ounces of 
pie-paste, roll it out lengthwise, two feet long, and fold it carefully in 
two, so as to make a long narrow strip; roll it slightly again until about 
thirty inches long by one wide, paring off both sides evenly, so as to have 
it exactly the one inch in width. Moisten the edge of the pie-plate with 
beaten egg, and arrange the strip around, fastening the two ends together, 
one over the other; glaze the surface of the strip with beaten egg, then 
place the pie in a moderate oven, and let bake for fifty minutes. Remove 
to the door, dredge the pie well with powdered sugar, return to the oven 
for two minutes to allow the sugar to melt, then spread evenly over the 
top two ounces of apple jelly (No. 1327), and send to the table. 

1088. Pear Pie ? Open. Peel and slice six medium-sized fine and 
sound pears; place them in a vessel with three ounces of powdered sugar, 
mix well, and proceed exactly the same as for pineapple pie (No. 1087). 

1089. Huckleberry Pie. Put in a vessel one pint and a half of well- 
picked and cleaned huckleberries, add two ounces of powdered sugar, mix 
well, and proceed the same as for pineapple pie (No. 1087). 

1090. Fresh Currant Pie. Put in a vessel a pint and a half of well- 
picked and cleaned currants, with four ounces of powdered sugar, and 
proceed exactly the same as for pineapple pie (No. 1087). 

1091. Gooseberry Pie. To-be prepared the same as the above (No. 



DESSEKTS. 



1090), only using one pint and a half of gooseberries instead of the 
currants. 

1092. Peach Pie. Wipe neatly and slice eight fine, sound, medium- 
sized peaches; put them in a vessel with three ounces of powdered sugar, 
and proceed exactly the same as for pineapple pie (No. 1087). 

1098. Green-gage Pie. Select one dozen ripe, sound, green-gages; cut 
them in two, remove the stones, and put them in a vessel with three 
ounces of powdered sugar. Finish the same as for pineapple pie (No. 
1087). 

1094. Plum Pie. To be prepared as for the above (No. 1093), substi- 
tuting one dozen plums for the green-gages. 

1095. Strawberry Pie. Have a pie-plate lined as for 'pineapple 
pie (No. 1087), lay in three-quarters of a pound of apple sauce (No. 1328), 
arrange the strip around, then place it in the oven for thirty minutes only; 
remove to the oven door, dredge profusely the strip with powdered sugar, 
return to the oven, close the door, and leave it for two minutes to let the 
sugar melt. Take it out, and let ,it get thoroughly cold, then, with a 
spoon, remove half of the apple sauce, and fill the interior with a pint and 
a half of well-picked and cleaned strawberries, mixed with two ounces of 
powdered sugar. Spread two ounces of apple jelly (No. 1327) evenly 
over the strawberries, and serve. 

1096. Raspberry Pie. Have the pie prepared exactly the same as for 
strawberry pie (No. 1095), and fill it with a pint and a half of well-picked 
and cleaned raspberries mixed with two ounces of powdered sugar, and 
spread evenly over the top two ounces of apple jelly (No. 1327); then 
serve. 

1097. Blackberry Pie. Blackberry pie is to be prepared exactly the 
same as strawberry pie (No. 1095)4 only substituting a pint and a half of 
well-picked and cleaned blackberries for the strawberries. 

1098. Cherry Pie. Procure two pounds of fine, sound cherries; pick 
off the stalks, then stone them with the hands, and place them in a vessel 
with four ounces of powdered sugar, mixing well. Have ready a lined 
pie-plate, fill it with the cherries, arrange the strip around, and proceed 
the same as for pineapple pie (No. 1087), then serve. 

1099. Pumpkin Pie. Have a deep pie-plate, one and a half inches 
deep by nine and a half wide ; line it with four ounces of pie-paste (No. 
1077). Cut a two-pound piece off a sound pumpkin, peel it well with a 
knife, remove the seeds and soft parts, then cut it into twelve pieces; 
place them in a saucepan with three quarts of cold water, leave the pan 
on the hot stove, and let cook for twenty-five minutes. Take from the 
fire, put the pumpkin in a drainer, leaving it for one hour, then press out 
the water thoroughly with the hand, and rub it through a sieve into 
another vessel. Add two ounces of powdered sugar, and break in three 
whole eggs; add a saltspoonful of ground cloves, a saltspoonful of ground 
allspice, half a saltspoonful of salt, and the same quantity of cinnamon; mix 
all together for two minutes, and pour in half a pint of cold milk, mixing 
well again for one minute, then strain through a sieve into another vessel, 

21 



3 22 



THE TABLE. 



and use the preparation to fill up the pie-plate, then lay it carefully in a 
moderate oven, and let bake for thirty minutes. Take it from the oven, 
put aside to cool, and cut it into six equal parts ; dress them on a des- 
sert dish with a folded napkin, sprinkle liberally with powdered sugar, 
and serve. 

1100. Custard Pie. Put four ounces of powdered sugar into a ves- 
sel ; break in five whole eggs, and with a pastry whip beat together for 
three minutes. Add one quart of cold milk, and flavor with a teaspoonful 
of lemon essence ; mixing well together for two minutes longer ; strain 
through a sieve into another vessel. Have a deep pie-plate lined exactly 
the same as for pumpkin pie (No. 1099), and fill it with the above prepa- 
ration. Place it in a moderate oven, and let bake for thirty minutes, then 
remove, and let get thoroughly cold ; cut the pie into six equal pieces, 
and with the blade of a knife dress them onto a dessert-dish with a folded 
napkin, and serve. 

1101. Coeoanut Pie. Prepare and proceed exactly the same as for 
custard pie (No. noo), and when fil^d, before placing it in the oven, 
spread evenly over six ounces of dried cocoanut ; baking and serving it 
exactly the same. 

1102. Lemon Cream Pie, Meringue. Boil one pint of water in a 
saucepan ; put in another vessel four ounces of powdered sugar, mix in 
one ounce of corn-starch, grate in the rind of a sound lemon, squeezing in 
the juice, and mingle well together with the spatula for one minute. 
Break in two whole eggs, beat all together for one minute, and add it to 
the boiling water in the pan, stirring sharply with a wire whip until it 
comes, to a boil ; then take from off the fire. Have ready a lined, flat pie- 
plate as for mince pie (No. 1082), put it in the oven, and let it bake for 
ten minutes, so that the crust gets a good golden color. Remove from 
the oven, and pour the preparation into it, then let it get thoroughly cold. 
Beat in a copper basin three egg whites to a stiff froth, using a wire 
pastry- whip; mix in three ounces of powdered sugar, and with a spoon lay 
half of it over the pie, using a knife to flatten it evenly on the top and 
sides. Slide down a fancy tube (No. 3) into a pastry-bag (No. 1079), and 
pour the rest of the froth into it, then decorate the top of the pie artisti- 
cally, laying it in any fanciful design. Sprinkle plenty of sugar over, place 
it in a slow oven for ten minutes to let get a pale brown color, then 
remove it, put it away to cool, slide it carefully onto a dessert-dish, and 
send to the table. 

1103 Apple Pie 9 Meringue. Butter and line a pie-plate as for mince 
pie (No. 1082); put in a vessel one pound of apple sauce (No. 1328), one 
ounce of powdered sugar, and one ounce of corn-starch. Mix well for 
one minute, then grate in the rind of a sound lemon, squeezing in the 
juice as well ; add half a saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, and mix the 
whole well together for two minutes, then with this fill the pie-plate. 
Place it in the oven, and let bake for twenty minutes ; remove, let get 
thoroughly cold, and finish the same as for lemon pie, meringuS (No. 
1102), serving it as for the above. 



1104:. Cranberry Pie. Put one quart of fresh cranberries in a sauce- 
pan with a gill of cold water and three ounces of powdered sugar ; place 
on a hot stove, stir lightly with the spatula, and let cook for fifteen min- 
utes. Remove from the fire, and rub through a sieve into a vessel, then 
pour it into a lined pie-plate, the same as for mince pie (No. 1082). Place 
it in the oven, and let bake for twenty minutes, then take it out, and let 
cool thoroughly, and finish by decorating it exactly the same as for lemon 
cream pie, meringue (No. 1102); return it to the oven for ten minutes > 
then serve as for the lemon pie. 

1105. Pie a la Martha Washington. Peel four ounces of almonds ; 
put them in a mortar with two ounces of powdered sugar, then pound 
them thoroughly, adding gradually one raw egg. When well pounded, 
add two ounces more of powdered sugar, two ounces of melted fresh but- 
ter, half a gill of rum, half a saltspoonful of ground cinnamon, six drops 
of orange-flower water, and break in another whole egg. Pound the 
whole briskly for five minutes, then add two ounces of well-pounded 
macaroons (No. 1210), and mix again for two minutes more. Line a pie- 
plate as for mince pie (No. 1082), pour all the preparation over, cover, 
and bake exactly the same as for the mince pie ; when arranged on a des- 
sert-dish, decorate the top and sides artistically with two ounces of can- 
died cherries, three ounces of pear, one of angelica, two of apricot, and 
two of pineapple, all the fruits being candied, then send to the table. 

HOG. Peach Tarts. Take half a pound of feuilletage (No. 1076), roll 
it out twelve inches long by eight wide, then with a paste-cutter (No. 7) 
cut out six pieces, and arrange them neatly on six scalloped tart-molds, 
each three and a half inches wide. Take each separate mold in the 
hand, and with the thumb press the paste gently at the bottom and sides, 
so to give it the perfect shape of the mold, but avoid pressing the paste 
on the edge, so that in baking it will swell and raise beautifully. Divide 
three ounces of apple marmalade (No. 1332) into six equal parts, and fill 
the bottom of the tarts with it, then wipe six good-sized, solid, fine 
peaches, peel and cut them into six quartered pieces ; arrange them nicely 
over the marmalade in the tarts, then distribute two ounces of powdered 
sugar evenly over all ; lay them on a baking-sheet, put them in a mod- 
erate oven for twenty minutes, draw them to the door, and sprinkle the 
edges lightly with powdered sugar ; then leave them in the closed oven 
for two minutes to allow the sugar to melt thoroughly. Remove them 
from the fire, put to cool for twenty minutes, and then spread evenly over 
the peaches one and a half ounces of apple jelly (No. 1327). Dress the 
tarts on a dessert-dish with a folded napkin, and serve. 

1107. Green-gage Tarts. Procure twelve ripe green-gages, wipe 
well, cut them in quarters, remove the stones, and proceed to prepare 
them exactly the same as for the above peach tarts (No. 1106). 

1108. Apricot Tarts. Prepare and proceed exactly the same as for 
peach tarts (No 1106), using ten apricots instead of the peaches, and serv- 
ing the same. 

1109. Pear Tarts. Are to be prepared precisely the same as peach 



324 THE TABLE. 



tarts (No. 1106), only substituting six sound, sliced pears for the 
peaches. 

1110* Plum Tarts. Have twelve good, ripe plums; wipe and quar- 
ter them; remove the stones, and prepare them exactly the same as for 
peach tarts (No. 1106). 

1111. Cherry Tarts. Have a pound of picked and stoned cherries; 
divide them evenly into six tarts, prepared as for peach tarts (No. 1106), 
and finishing them the same. 

1112. Rhubarb Tarts. Take six medium-sized rhubarb stalks, pare 
off the green parts, and peel them well. Then cut them into small pieces 
half an inch long; put them into a saucepan, on a very slow fire; cover, 
and let cook slowly for fifteen minutes; then remove, and add three ounces 
of powdered sugar; mix well for one minute, then transfer to another 
vessel, and set aside in a cool place for at least an hour and a half. Divide 
the rhubarb into six tarts, as for peach tarts (No. 1106); finish, and serve 
exactly the same. 

1113. Huckeberry Tarts. Put in a vessel one pint of well-picked and 
cleaned, sound huckleberries; mix in two ounces of powdered sugar, and 
with it fill evenly six tarts; cook and serve the same as for peach tarts 
(No. 1106). 

1114. Gooseberry and Currant Tarts. Are to be prepared precisely 
the same as for the above (No. 1113); using either one pint of gooseberries 
or currants instead of the huckleberries. 

1115. Pineapple Tarts. Choose a small, sound pineapple, cut it 
in two, roll a towel round one-half and lay it in the ice-box for further 
use. Pare and peal neatly the other half; then cut it into small and very 
thin slices; lay them in a vessel with two ounces of powdered sugar, mix- 
ing lightly for one minute. Arrange the slices carefully over the marma- 
lade in the six tarts, prepared as for peach tarts (No. 1106); then finish, 
and serve exactly the same. 

1116. Cranberry Tarts. Have six tart-molds lined as for peach tarts 
(No. 1106); divide into them twelve ounces of cranberry sauce (No. 1329), 
then cook, and serve the same. 

1117. Strawberry Tarts. Line six tart-molds as for peach tarts (No. 
1106), divide into them evenly eight ounces of apple marmalade (No. 
1332); lay them on a baking-sheet, and put them in a moderate oven for 
twenty minutes; remove them to the door; sprinkling the edges liberally 
with powdered sugar, return them to the oven, and close the door for 
two minutes, so that the sugar melts thoroughly; lift them out, put them 
to cool for twenty minutes, then take out half the marmalade. Pick and 
wash neatly a pint of ripe and sound strawberries ; put them in a vessel with 
two ounces of powdered sugar; mix well for one minute, then divide them 
equally into the six tarts; spread over one and a half ounces of apple jelly 
(No. 1327); dress them on a dessert-dish with a folded napkin, and serve. 

1118. Raspberry Tarts. Prepare and proceed precisely the same as 
ior strawberry tarts (No. 1117), only substituting a pint of raspberries for 
the strawberries. 



D ESSER TS. 



325 



1119. Blackberry Tarts. Are to be prepared exactly the same as 
strawberry tarts (No. 1117), using one pint of the smallest sized black- 
berries instead of the strawberries, and serving the same. 

1120. Apple Tarts. Take four ounces of pie-paste (No. 1077), and 
with it line six oval, channeled tart-molds, four inches long, three inches 
wide, and one deep. Have three ounces of apple marmalade, and divide 
it evenly at the bottom of the molds; then peel, core, and cut four sound, 
medium-sized apples into quarters, and put them in a saucepan, with a 
pint of cold water; place the lid on, and let cook on the hot stove for ten 
minutes; remove, and pour into a drainer; let drain thoroughly; then 
put to cool for thirty minutes. Cut the quartered apples each into three 
lengthwise slices; arrange them nicely over the marmalade, dredging 
equally over them two ounces of powdered sugar; lay them on a baking- 
sheet, and bake for twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven; leave to cool 
for twenty minutes; then spread evenly over them two ounces of apple 
jelly (No. 1327); dress them onto a dessert-dish with a folded napkin, 
and serve. 

1121. Frangipani Tarts. Peel three ounces of shelled almonds, as 
for No. 1207; put them in a mortar, and pound them thoroughly with 
three ounces of powdered sugar, adding one whole raw egg. When a fine 
paste, mix in two ounces of melted fresh butter, half a spoonful of ground 
cinnamon, six drops of orange-flower water, one more egg, and half a gill 
of rum. Stir well together for ten minutes with the powder. Have ready 
six tart-molds, lined as for peach tarts (No. 1106); then fill them with the 
above preparation; lay them on a baking-sheet, put them in a moderate 
oven for thirty-five minutes; when done, put them to cool for twenty 
minutes; then glaze the surface with a glace a 1'eau and rum (No. 1197). 
Dress on a hot dessert-dish, with a folded napkin, and send to the table. 

1122. Baked Apple Dumplings. Sift one pound of flour on the table, 
make a hollow in the centre, laying in it ^half a pound of butter, mingling 
it slightly with the flour for five minutes ; when done, make another 
hollow in the centre, pour into it half a pint of cold water and two ounces 
of powdered sugar. Mix all together gradually for five minutes longer; 
it will then be a firm dough. Roll it together with the hands, and put it 
in a cool place for five minutes. Peel and core six medium-sized pippin 
apples, sprinkle the table lightly with flour, lay the butter on it, roll it 
out twelve inches long by eight wide, and about the thickness of a silver 
dollar, then cut it into six equal-sized, square pieces. Arrange the apples 
upwards in the middle of each square piece ; mix together two ounces of 
granulated sugar with one teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, and fill the 
cavities of the apples with this. Break one egg into a bowl, beat it well, 
adding two tablespoonfuls of cold milk, mix well, and with a pastry hair- 
brush moisten the edges of the pieces of dough, and fold them firmly so that 
the apples are entirely enclosed. Lay them on a baking-pan, and with the 
rest of the beaten egg brush over the surface and sides of the dumplings. 
Place them in a moderate oven for thirty minutes, and after they are 
a nice light golden color, remove, and dress them on a dessert-dish, 



326 THE TABLE. 



leaving them to rest in the open oven for twenty minutes, then pour the 
following sauce over before serving : put into a saucepan one pint of 
water, six ounces of granulated sugar, one bay-leaf, six' cloves, and an 
inch-long stick of cinnamon. Place the pan on the hot stove, and let boil 
for five minutes ; dilute half an ounce of corn-starch in a bowl with half a 
gill of cold water, add it to the sauce, mix well, and let cook for two min- 
utes longer, stirring briskly with a spatula. Remove from the fire, and 
immediately add half a pint of good claret ; stir again, and when ready to 
serve, strain the sauce through a sieve over the dumplings. Hard sauce, 
as in the following number, may be substituted if desired, or both. 

1123. Hard Sauce. Put in a bowl two ounces of very good fresh 
butter with four ounces of powdered sugar, then with a spatula, beat to- 
gether sharply for twenty minutes ; add half a saltspoonful of powdered 
mace, beat briskly for five minutes longer, then arrange it tastefully on 
a dessert-dish, and place it in the ice-box for two hours before serving. 

1124. Baked Apples. Core with anapple-corer six fine, sound New- 
town apples, lay them in a tin pan. Put in a plate two ounces of gran- 
ulated sugar with a saltspoonful of cinnamon, mix well, and with this fill 
the holes in the apples ; add half a pint of cold water, and place the pan 
in a moderate oven to let bake for twenty-five minutes ; remove, and 
dress them on a dessert-dish, pouring over the juice remaining in the 
pan, and serve either hot or cold. 

1125. Boiled Peach Dumplings. Put in a vessel half a pound of well- 
sifted flour, mixed with half an ounce of baking-powder ; make a hollow 
in the centre, and pour into it a gill of lukewarm milk, half an ounce of 
butter, half a saltspoonful of salt, and break in one whole egg. Mix 
these ingredients well for two minutes, then incorporate the flour grad- 
ually. Lay the paste on a lightly floured board or table, roll it into a 
square a quarter of an inch thick, then with a plain paste-cutter (No. 7) 
cut out six pieces, putting in the middle of each piece two ounces of 
stewed peaches (No. 1334), fold up the edges all round, so as to enclose 
the peaches entirely, then have six small pieces of thick white cloth, eight 
inches square, butter and flour them well, then arrange the dumplings in 
them ; tie them firmly, leaving an empty space of an inch to allow the 
dumplings to swell, and plunge them in a large saucepan, holding a gal- 
lon of boiling water, and let them boil for twenty minutes ; remove from 
the fire, and lift them out with a fork ; let drain for two minutes, then 
cut the strings and remove the cloths. Dress the dumplings on a hot 
dessert-dish, pour over a hot wine sauce as for No. 1122, and serve. 

1126. Boiled Apricot Dumplings. Prepare and proceed exactly the 
same as for boiled peach dumplings (No. 1125), only substituting twelve 
ounces of stewed apricots (No. 1335) for the peaches, and serve with a 
rum sauce (No. 1162), instead of wine sauce. 

1127. Boiled Apple Dumplings. Prepare and proceed precisely as for 
boiled peach dumplings (No. 1125), only using twelve ounces of stewed 
apples (No. 1332) for the peaches, and pouring the sauce (No. 1128) over, 
instead of the wine sauce. 



DESSERTS. 327 



1128. Apricot Sauce. -Put four ounces of apricot marmalade (No. 
1335) into a saucepan with one ounce of fresh butter and a gill of water ; 
set it on the hot stove and stir briskly with the spatula until it comes to a 
boil, then take from off the fire, and add immediately a gill of good 
brandy, mixing again with the spatula for one minute more, then pour the 
sauce over the boiled apple dumplings, and serve. 

1129. Diplomatic Puddingy Punch Sauce. Pare off, remove the skin 
and strings from four ounces of veal-suet and three ounces of beef-mar- 
row, lay them in a saucepan wjth two ounces of finely chopped plums and 
three ounces of flour. Place the saucepan on a slow fire, and stir well 
with the spatula for six minutes ; add three egg yolks and one whole egg, 
half a gill of sweet cream, half a gill of maraschino, a saltspoonful of salt, 
and half a saltspoonful of grated nutmeg. Sftir all together thoroughly 
for six minutes, not letting it boil, then take it off the fire, and lay the pan 
in a cool place, adding one ounce of whole pistache, also two ounces of 
macaroons pounded in a mortar, half an ounce of angelica, and half an 
ounce" of candied cherries, all well chopped. Mix well for one minute ; 
peel, core, and chop up three medium-sized apples, add them to the prep- 
aration with two ounces of powdered sugar, and a tablespoonful of vanilla 
flavoring ; then stir all together for twelve or fifteen minutes. Butter 
and flour neatly a cloth, arrange it in a deep vessel, and pour the prepa- 
ration into it ; lift up the four corners, close them together, and tie firmly 
with a string, leaving an empty space, about the eighth of the contents, to 
allow it to swell. Have a saucepan half full of boiling water ready to 
plunge the pudding into, then let boil for three full hours ; the pudding 
will constantly float, therefore turn it every hour, when it will be thor- 
oughly cooked. Remove it, let drain for two minutes, untie, lift it from 
the cloth, and dress it on a hot dessert-dish. Have ready the following 
sauce : put in a saucepan half a gill of rum, three ounces of powdered 
sugar, the grated rind of half an orange, and a teaspoonful of vanilla 
flavoring. Put it on the stove, and as soon as the liquid catches a light 
flame, put on the lid and let all infuse for one minute. Take from off the 
fire, and immediately squeeze in the juice of one orange ; strain through a 
sieve over the pudding, and serve very hot. 

1130. Rice Pudding- with Orange. Clean half a pound of fine rice; 
wash it in lukewarm water, then drain in a colander; put three pints of 
milk into a saucepan, place it on the hot stove, and when near a boil, drop 
in the rice. Let cook slowly for twelve minutes, stirring it frequently 
from the bottom with a spatula; remove it from the fire, and add one 
ounce of fresh butter, three ounces of powdered sugar, and the grated 
rind of a medium-sized orange. Mix well for two minutes, then add three 
ounces of well-skinned and stringed marrow, finely chopped, two ounces 
of dried and cleaned currants (No. 1080), two ounces of bitter almond 
macaroons (No. 1209), one ounce of finely shred candied orange-peel, three 
egg yolks, one whole one, half a gill of brandy, and half a saltspojffful of 
salt; mix well together for ten minutes. Have a buttered and floured 
cloth, arrange it in a deep vessel, and pour the preparation into it; lift up 



328 THE 7^ ABLE. 



the four corners, tie it firmly, being careful to leave an empty space of 
about an eighth of the contents. 

Place a deep saucepan on the stove, half filled with boiling water; 
plunge the pudding in, and let cook for one hour and a half, turning it over 
a couple of times; remove, drain for one minute, untie, and lift from the 
cloth. Dress on a dessert-dish, and serve with the following sauce (No. 



1131. Sauce a PAnglaise a FOrange. Put in a saucepan four egg 
yolks with four ounces of powdered sugar,, and stir with a spatula until it 
becomes a whitish color. Add two gills of sweet cream, little by little, 
beating continually, then grate in the rind of an orange. Place the pan 
on a slow stove, and stir well for four minutes, being careful not to let it 
boil; take it off, strain through a sieve over the pudding, and serve very 
hot. 

1132. Bread Pudding-, Cream Sauce. Take a deep, oval dish as for a 
pot-pie, and large enough to hold three pints. Pare off the crust of half 
a loaf of stale American bread, and cut it into slices the third of an inch 
thick; butter them well with melted butter, and with them line the dish. 
Put in a vessel six ounces of currants, prepared as for No. 1080, two whole 
eggs, a pint of cold milk, four ounces of powdered sugar, and grate in the 
rind of a medium-sized lemon, adding its juice. Mix well together with 
a spatula for two minutes, then pour it into the lined dish, and place it in 
a moderate oven to cook for thirty minutes. Take it from the oven, 
lay it on another dish, and serve very hot. 

1133. Cream Sauce. Put a pint of milk to boil in a saucepan on the 
stove. Break into a vessel two whole raw eggs, add one ounce of flour, 
half an ounce of corn-starch, and three ounces of powdered sugar, beating 
the whole well together with a spatula for three minutes. If the milk be 
boiling, add it gradually to the preparation, stirring continually for two 
minutes, return the whole to the saucepan, place it on the stove, and stir 
briskly till it comes to a boil, then remove, and add immediately a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla flavoring. Strain the sauce through a sieve into a 
sauce-bowl, and serve. 

1134. Cold Maraschino Pudding 1 . Put in a copper basin a quarter of 
a pound of powdered sugar, two whole raw eggs, and grate in the rind of 
a quarter of a medium-sized lemon, and with a pastry whip beat the whole 
sharply for two minutes ; put the basin on a very moderate fire, then beat 
it vigorously for five minutes more. Remove it from the fire, lay the basin 
on a table, continue beating slowly for two minutes longer, then give the 
whip a sharp shake, so that all that adheres to it falls into the basin. Now 
add a quarter of a pound of flour, and with a wooden spoon mix slowly and 
carefully the whole for two minutes. Cover a pastry baking-pan with a 
sheet of brown paper, pour the paste over it, spread out to the thickness of 
half an inch ; put it into a moderate oven, and let bake for fifteen minutes, 
then take it out, let cool for another fifteen minutes, and remove from the 
pan. Place it on a table upside down, remove the paper, and with a knife 
cut it into small, square, dice-shaped pieces, mixing with them one ounc 



D ESSER TS. 329 



of dried currants, as for No. 1080, and one ounce of finely chopped can- 
died citron. 

Butter and sugar well six small pudding-molds, each capable of con- 
taining one and a half gills. Fill them equally with the above preparation, 
then put in a vessel four ounces of powdered sugar with two raw eggs ; 
beat well with a pastry- whip for two minutes, then add a pint of cold milk, 
mixing again for one minute, strain through a sieve into another vessel, 
add half a teaspoonful of lemon essence, and stir lightly for one minute 
more. Pour this slowly over the puddings, a little each time, so as to 
give the necessary opportunity for it to absorb; lay them on a tin pan, 
filled to half the height of the molds with warm but not boiling water, 
then place in a moderate oven to steam for thirty minutes ; remove them 
from the pan, and lay them in a cool place for one hour, afterwards leav- 
ing them in the ice-box until ready to serve. Take a pint of whipped 
cream, as for No. 1254, put it in a vessel, mixing in for two minutes half 
a gill of good maraschino, and leave it in the ice-box until ready ; then 
prepare a cold dessert-dish. Run a thin knife down each pudding sepa- 
' rately, from top to bottom, pass it carefully around the mold, so as to 
detach them easily. Pour the maraschino sauce over, and send to the 
table immediately. 

1135. Cold Pudding a la Porfirio Diaz. Prepare six small puddings 
exactly the same as for No. 1134, only substituting sauce a la Diaz (No. 
1136) for the maraschino sauce. 

1136. Sauce a la Diaz. Put into a saucepan half a pint of Jamaica 
rum, three ounces of granulated sugar, half a split vanilla-bean, grate in 
the rind of a medium-sized orange, and add a gill of Marcella wine. Place 
the pan on the stove, and as soon as the liquid catches fire put on the 
cover, and let boil for one minute only. Set the pan on one side to allow 
it to infuse for five minutes, then strain through a fine sieve into a bowl, 
transfer it to a jar, cover tightly, and let cool off thoroughly. When ready 
to serve, pour the sauce pver the puddings, distributing it evenly, and 
then send to the table. 

1137. English Pudding, Baked. Put in a saucepan two gills of sweet 
cream, three ounces of powdered sugar, and the peel of half a medium- 
sized lemon; place the pan on the stove, and, with a spatula, stir, and let 
boil for three minutes and take off the fire. Have ten ounces of stale 
French bread, pare off the crust and cut it into small, dice-shaped pieces; 
add them to the preparation, mixing lightly; put on the lid, and let the 
bread soak for ten minutes. Chop up very fine one ounce of candied cit- 
ron; mix it with four ounces of dried currants, prepared as for No. 1080, 
four ounces of melted butter, four ounces of melted and strained beef- 
marrow, and a saltspoonful of salt. With the hand stir thoroughly for 
two minutes. Pour this preparation in with the soaked bread, and mix 
gently, either with the hand or a spatula, for ten minutes; meanwhile 
breaking in three eggs, one by one at a minute's interval, and adding a 
gill of Madeira wine and half a gill of cognac. Butter, and sprinkle well 
with bread-crumbs a two-quart pudding-mold; pour in all the prepara- 



330 THE TABLE. 



tion, lay it on a baking-pan, and place it in a slow oven to bake for one 
and a half hours. Remove, and with the aid of a towel turn it onto a hot 
dessert-dish, serving it with a hot Sabayon sauce au madere (No. 1138). 

1138. Sabayon Sauce an Madere. Put in a saucepan four egg yolks 
and an ounce and a half of powdered sugar; place it on a hot stove, and 
with a wire whip stir well for two minutes. Drop in gradually two gills 
of Madeira wine; stir continually for two minutes; take from the fire, and 
strain through a fine sieve over the pudding. 

1139. French Pudding a la Delmonico. Line theinsides of six oval, 
channeled, deep tart-molds, each holding one and a half gills, with four 
ounces of pie-paste (No. 1077). Prepare a cake exactly as for Maraschino 
pudding (No. 1134), and when cooked and on the table, remove the paper, 
and break up the cake in small pieces, into a vessel. Moisten with two 
gills of cold milk and two eggs, and mix well with the spatula for two 
minutes; add two ounces of dried currants (No. 1080). Mix in a saucer a 
saltspoonful of cinnamon, with one of allspice and one of cloves, all 
ground, and add it to the preparation in the bowl; stir well for three 
minutes; then, with a wooden spoon, fill up the molds, and lay them on a 
baking-pan. Put it into a moderate oven for ten minutes; then remove, 
cool off, and unmold; lay them on a table, and pour over each pudding 
a teaspoonful of rum, and with a light pastry-brush glaze the surface 
with glace a 1'eau (No. 1197). Dress the'm on a dessert -dish, and 
serve. 

1140. SagO Pudding 1 . Boil in a saucepan one quart of milk; add a 
quarter of a pound of sago, and, with a pastry wire-whip, stir briskly and 
continually for fifteen minutes. Take from off the fire; let cool; then 
add four ounces of powdered sugar, mixing well again for one minute. 
Break in four eggs, and flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla essence; then 
mix well for two minutes longer. Butter and sugar well six small pud- 
ding-molds, the same size as for maraschino pudding (No. 1134), and, with a 
ladle, fill up the molds with the sago; place them in a tin pan, filling it to 
half the height of the molds with warm but not boiling water. Then put 
in the oven and let steam for thirty-five minutes. Remove; take the 
molds from the pan with a towel, and with a thin knife detach them prop- 
erly. Then turn them on a hot dessert-dish, serving them with a sauce 
a la creme (No. 1133). 

1141. Tapioca Pudding. The same as for the above, using tapioca. 

1142. Termicelli Pudding. The same, using vermicelli. 

1143. Rice Pudding. The same, using rice. 

1144. Farina Pudding. The same, using farina. 

1145. Indian Pudding. The same, using corn-meal. 

1146. Chocolate Pudding. Put in a saucepan five ounces of fresh 
butter, five ounces of powdered sugar, five ounces of finely cut cocoa, and 
five egg yolks ; place the pan on the hot stove, and with a pastry-whip 
stir briskly for five minutes, then take from off the fire. Beat up in a 
copper basin the whites of the five eggs to a firm froth, and add them to 
the preparation in the saucepan, mixing all well together for two minutes. 



331 



Butter and sugar well six small pudding-molds as for No. 1134, and fill 
them with the preparation, then place them in a tin pan, filling the pan to 
half the height of the molds with warm but not boiling water. Put in 
the oven for thirty minutes, then take out, turn them on a hot dessert- 
dish, and serve with a sauce a la creme (No. 1133) poured over. 

1147. Cocoanut Pudding 1 . Butter and sugar well six small pudding- 
molds as for No. 1134; distribute evenly in them half a pound of dried 
cocoanut. Put into a vessel four ounces of powdered sugar, break in 
three whole eggs, mix well for two minutes with the wire whip, then add 
one and a half pints of cold milk ; flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla 
flavoring, then mix two minutes longer. Strain through a sieve into 
another vessel, and with it fill up the molds ; arrange them on a tin pan, 
fill to half their height with warm but not boiling water, then put in the 
oven and let steam for thirty-five minutes. Take from the oven, turn on 
a hot dessert-dish, and serve with a sauce & la creme (No. 1133), flavored 
with half a gill of brandy. 

1148. Pineapple Pudding a la Richelieu. Boil in a saucepan two 
gills of milk, adding two ounces of fresh butter ; let melt well. Have 
half a pound of flour and the spatula ready. Drop the. flour in, and stir 
immediately \vith the spatula as briskly as possible for two minutes ; 
remove from off the fire, add three egg yolks, and stir again vigorously 
for two minutes more, drop in three ounces of powdered sugar, continue 
stirring for one minute, then pour in a gill of cold milk, mixing well. 
Beat to a stiff froth the whites of the three eggs, and add them gradually 
to the preparation, mixing slowly for two minutes. Butter and sugar a 
mold holding three pints ; put a layer of the preparation half an inch 
thick at the bottom, cover with two ounces of fine slices of stewed pine- 
apple, then another layer of the preparation, again the same quantity of 
pineapple, and repeat twice more. Place the mold in a tin pan, fill it to 
half the height of the mold with warm water, and set it in the oven to 
steam for one hour. Remove, and with a towel turn it on a hot dessert-, 
dish, and serve with a sauce-bowl of sauce au Kirsch (No. 1149). 

1149. Sauce au Kirsch. Pour in a saucepan one pint of cold 
water and half a pound of granulated sugar ; place it on a hot stove. 
Dilute an ounce of corn-starch in a cup with a gill of cold water, and 
when the water in the saucepan is boiling, add it to it, stirring well for two 
minutes with the pastry- whip. Take off from the fire, then add imme- 
diately half a gill of kirsch, and mix again for one minute ; strain 
through a fine sieve into a sauce-bowl, and serve very hot with the pud- 
ding. 

1150. Peach Pudding a la Richelieu. Prepare and proceed exactly 
the same as for the above, No. 1148, only instead of using pineapple, 
have eight peeled and finely sliced peaches, either fresh or preserved. 
Steam, arrange on the dish, and serve precisely the same, with the sauce 
au kirsch (No. 1149). 

1151. Apricot Pudding a la Richelieu. The same as for the pine- 
apple pudding (No. 1148), but using twelve sound, peeled, and finely 



332 THE TABLE. 



sliced apricots instead of the pineapples, and then serve the pudding and 
sauce exactly the same. 

1152. Apple Pudding a PHelv&ienne. Prepare a pudding - paste 
exactly the same as for pinapple pudding (No. 1148) ; when ready, peel, 
core, and slice finely five medium-sized, sound apples ; put them into a 
vessel, mix with them one ounce of powdered sugar and a teaspoonful of 
powdered cinnamon, and add this to the paste, and with a spatula mix 
thoroughly all together for three minutes. Butter and sugar well a three- 
pint mold, pour in the preparation, and lay the mold in a tin pan, filled 
to half the height of the mold with warm water ; place in the oven, and 
let steam for one hour; take it from the oven, and with a towel turn it on 
a hot dessert-dish, and serve with the following sauce (No. 1153) in a. 
sauce-bowl. 

1153. Sauce Chaufausen. Put half a pint of cold water in a sauce- 
pan, with three ounces of powdered sugar, six cloves, a bay-leaf, and a 
piece of cinnamon about an inch long. Put the pan on the fire, and let it 
boil for five minutes ; then dilute an ounce of corn-starch with a gill of 
cold water ; add it to the contents of the pan, and with a whip stir briskly 
for two minutes. Add one pint of Chaufausen wine, still stirring for one 
minute longer, then take from off the fire, strain through a sieve into a 
sauce-bowl, and serve. 

1154. Custard Pudding. Put into a vessel a quarter of a pound of 
powdered sugar, break in five whole eggs, and with the pastry-whip mix 
well for two minutes ; add a quart of good, cold milk, and flavor with'a 
teaspoonful of lemon essence; mix well together for one minute. Butter 
and sugar well six small pudding-molds, as for maraschino pudding (No. 
1134) ; strain the preparation into another bowl, and then pour it into the 
molds ; arrange them on a tin pan filled to half the height of the molds 
with warm but not boiling water; then place them in a moderate oven 
to steam for forty minutes. Remove from the oven, and with a towel 
turn them on a hot dessert-dish, serving with a sauce a la creme. 
(No. 1133). 

1155. Nelson Pudding 1 . Butter and sugar well six small pudding- 
molds, as for maraschino pudding (No. 1134). Prepare twelve lady- 
fingers (No. 1231), cut them in two, paring them neatly and carefully, so 
as to be able to line the molds evenly, then cut the parings into small 
pieces. Mix in a plate three ounces of candied cherries with two ounces 
of well-chopped citron ; cover the bottom of the molds with two ounces 
of this, then a layer of the lady-fingers; spread half of the remaining fruit 
on top, and fill in with the rest of the cake, finishing with the balance of 
the fruit ; then pour over the following custard: put into a vessel four 
ounces of powdered sugar three whole eggs, and beat briskly with a 
pastry-whip for two minutes, then add a pint of cold milk, flavor with a 
teaspoonful of lemon essence, mix for one minute longer, then strain 
through a sieve into another vessel, and with a ladle divide it evenly over 
the six puddings. Set the molds in a tin pan, filling it to half their 
height with warm water, and place it in a moderate oven to steam for 



DESSERTS. 



333 



thirty-five minutes; take^out from the oven, turn them on a hot dessert- 
dish, and serve with a Daniel Webster sauce (No. 1156). 

1156. Daniel Webster Sauce. Put into a saucepan four ounces of 
apricot marmalade (No. 1335), with half a gill of cold water; place it on 
the fire, and stir until boiling; then take it off, and add immediately half a 
pint of Saint Angelos Tokay wine, stirring thoroughly for one minute. 
Strain through a sieve over the puddings, and serve. 

1157. Lemon Pudding 1 , Cream Sauce. Put in a saucepan six 
ounces of fresh butter, six ounces of powdered sugar, six egg yolks, and 
the grated peel of a medium-sized, sound lemon, squeezing in the juice as 
well. Set the pan on the hot stove, and with a wire pastry- whip stir 
sharply for at least five minutes. Remove from the fire and lay it on 
a table; beat in a copper basin the six egg-whites to a stiff froth, and add 
them to the other preparation, beating with the whip thoroughly but not 
briskly for ten minutes. Butter and sugar well six pudding-molds as for 
No. 1134, fill them with the preparation, steam them in a tin pan, and 
serve exactly the same as for custard pudding (No. 1154). 

1158. Orange Pudding. Proceed and prepare the same as for lemon 
pudding (No. 1157), only substituting an orange for the lemon, and serving 
with the following sauce: put in a saucepan two ounces of powdered sugar, 
half an ounce of flour, and break in three eggs, adding a teaspoonful of 
corn-starch, and then with the pastry-whip beating all together for three 
minutes. Mix in three gills of boiling milk, place it on the stove, and stir 
well until boiling; then remove, and add immediately a gill of sherry wine, 
mixing well for a minute longer, then strain through a sieve over the 
puddings. Send to the table hot. 

1159. Pudding a la U. S. Grant. Cut into small pieces six biscuits 
& la cuillere (No. 1231); put them into a vessel with three ounces of 
candied cherries cut in two, three ounces of preserved quinces cut into 
very fine pieces, two ounces of dried currants (No. 1080), three ounces of 
powdered sugar, and two ounces of finely chopped candied apricots; break 
in three whole eggs, and pour over half a pint of cold milk, and with the 
spatula mix well together for two minutes. Peel, core, and chop up three 
medium-sized, fine, sound apples; add them to the other ingredients, and 
mix lightly for one minute. Butter and sugar well around the inside of a 
three-pint pudding-mold, pour in the preparation, lay the mold in a tin 
pan, filling it to half the height of the mold with warm water; put it in a 
moderate oven, and let steam for one hour, then remove, and with a towel 
turn it on a hot dessert-dish, serving with the following sauce (No. 1160), 
in a sauce-bowl. 

1160. Sauce for U. S. Grant Pudding. Put five ounces of peach 
marmalade (No. 1331) into a saucepan with one ounce of quince jelly and 
one ounce of fresh butter ; place the pan on the stove, and stir with the 
spatula, letting it boil for one minute ; take from off the fire, add immedi- 
ately a pint of champagne, then return to the stove, and stir well, heating 
it thoroughly, but not allowing it to boil. Remove, and strain through a 
siere into a sauce-bowl, and send to the table very hot with the pudding. 



334 THE TABLE. 



1161., Fruit Pudding, Rum Sauce. Butter well a pudding- mold 
four inches high, containing one quart, line the interior with half a pound 
of dumpling-batter (No. 1125). Put into a vessel four ounces of stoned 
cherries, three ounces of stoned plums, and three ounces of stoned apri- 
cots ; sift four ounces of powdered sugar over, mix well, and pour it into 
the mold. Have half a pint of water in a saucepan with six ounces of 
granulated sugar, place it on the stove, and let boil for five minutes, then 
fill up the mold with this syrup, and lay it in a baking-pan in a very hot 
oven for thirty minutes. Remove, and keep it in a warm place. 

1162. Rum Sauce. Put in a saucepan half a pint of water with four 
ounces of granulated sugar, and place it on the stove, adding a teaspoon- 
ful of caramel (No. 1252) ; when boiling add half an ounce of corn-starch, 
diluted in two tablespoonfuls of cold water, stir well with a spatula, and 
let cook for two minutes. Remove from the fire, and add immediately 
half a gill of Jamaica rum, mixing well, then strain it through a fine sieve 
into a bowl. Lay a dessert-dish over the mold, turn the pudding onto 
it, pour the sauce over, and serve. 

1163. Plum Pudding. Remove the skin and strings from six ounces 
of fresh beef-marrow ; chop it up very fine, and place it in a basin ; pick 
and wash, as for No. 1080, three ounces of dried currants, three ounces of 
dried Sultanas (No. 1080), and mix them well together with the marrow ; 
add three ounces of Malaga raisins (No. 1081), three-quarters of a pound 
of cruhibled bread-crumbs, half a gill of Madeira wine, half a gill of 
brandy, half a gill of rum, the grated rind of half a lemon, two ounces of 
candied citron, shred very fine, two ounces of powdered sugar, a salt- 
spoonful of salt, and two whole eggs. Moisten the whole with a gill of 
cold milk, add a saltspoonfuleachof allspice, ground clove, and cinnamon, 
and half the quantity of grated nutmeg ; knead well with the hands, so 
that the ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, which will take ten min- 
utes. Boil some water in a saucepan capable of holding the pudding * 
butter and flour a cloth, lay it on a large colander, which will answer for 
a hollow mold ; pour the mixture into it, then hold the four corners 
together, and tie it firmly, allowing sufficient space for it to swell. 
Plunge the pudding into the boiling water, and let cook, leaving it half 
covered ; the water must boil steadily for five hours ; every hour turn it 
over, and then make the following sauce : put into a saucepan one ounce 
of fresh butter, two drachms of flour, and three drops of lemon juice, the 
finely sliced rind of a quarter of a lemon, half a saltspoonful of salt, and 
half an ounce of powdered sugar. Moisten with a gill of port wine, then 
place the pan on the stove, and with a spatula stir well, until it comes to 
a boil. Remove from the fire, and strain through a fine sieve into a bowl. 
When ready to serve, drain the plum pudding for one moment, untie, and 
open the cloth ; serve it immediately, pouring some of the sauce over. 

1164. Cabinet Pudding a la Sadi-Carnot. Butter and sugar a pud- 
ding-mold of the capacity of three pints. Have ready four ounces of 
Malaga raisins, prepared as for No. 1081, three ounces of Sultana, three 
ounces of currants, as for No. 1080, three ounces of finely chopped candied 



D ESSEX TS. 335 



citron, and three ounces of candied cherries, cut in two. Mix well 
together, then with four ounces of the fruit cover the bottom of the mold, 
put on top a layer of biscuits a la cuillere (No. 1231), or slices of sponge 
cake, four more ounces of fruit, another layer of cake, and repeat twice 
more, and the mold will then be full. Put into a vessel a pint and a half 
of cold milk, six ounces of powdered sugar, three raw, fresh eggs, and a 
teaspoonful of lemon essence, and with a pastry-whip beat well for two 
minutes. Strain into another vessel, then pour it slowly and carefully 
over the cake in the mold, so that it will be thoroughly impregnated. Lay 
the mold in a square tin pan, filling it to half its height with hot water, 
then place in a moderate oven for one hour. Remove it from the pan, 
lay a dessert-dish over the mold, unmold, and decorate the top with fanci- 
ful designs of red-currant jelly (No. 1326); serve it hot with a sauce-bowl- 
ful of the following sauce (No. 1165). 

1165. Sauce a la Sadi-Carnot. Put in a saucepan two ounces of fresh 
butter, stir in one ounce of flour, and moisten slowly with a gill of cold 
water, turning continually; add two ounces of powdered sugar, place the 
pan on the stove, add half a pint of Chateau-Lagrange wine, and a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla flavoring. Stir well, and let boil for one minute, then 
remove, and strain it through a sieve into another saucepan; replace the 
pan on the corner of the stove so as to keep it hot, then take one ounce of 
citron, slice it as fine as possible, also one ounce of finely minced pistache; 
add them to the other ingredients, and finally stir in slowly a tablespoon- 
ful of red curaoa; mix well together for one minute, then pour into the 
sauce-bowl, and serve. 

1166. Caramel Pudding. Put in a vessel four eggs with three ounces 
of powdered sugar, mix briskly with the pastry-whip for two minutes, 
then add one and a half pints of cold milk, and a teaspoonful of lemon 
essence; then mix well again for one minute, strain this through a sieve 
into another vessel. Butter and sugar well six small molds as for maras- 
chino pudding (No. 1134), fill them one inch high with caramel (No. 1252), 
let cool off for five minutes, then pour in the preparation, dividing it 
equally; place them in a tin pan filled to half the height of the molds with 
warm but not boiling water, put in a moderate oven, and let steam for 
forty minutes. Take them out, turn them on a hot dessert-dish, and 
serve in their own sauce. This pudding may be prepared in cups instead 
of molds. 

1167. Apple Charlotte. Select four large or six medium-sized New- 
town pippins. Peel, core, and cut them into quarters. Put them into a 
saucepan with two ounces of fresh butter and four ounces of powdered 
sugar, and place on a moderate fire. Toss them for two minutes, then 
moisten with a gill of white wine, and grate in the peel of half a lemon. 
Cover the saucepan, and let cook for ten minutes so that the liquid be 
almost entirely absorbed by the apples. Remove from the fire, and put 
aside to cool. Take a three-pint charlotte-mold ; line it, beginning from 
the bottom, with cut slices of American bread the thickness of a silver 
dollar. Glaze them well with melted butter, using a hair brush for the 



336 THE TABLE. 



purpose, and sprinkle powdered sugar lightly over. Let each slice over- 
lap slightly until the bottom is covered. Then line the sides to the edge 
in the same way. Fill the mold with the prepared apples, and cover 
with slices of bread. Lay it on a baking-pan, and place it in a brisk oven 
for forty-five minutes, or until the bread be a good golden color. Then 
take it out, lay a hot dessert-dish on top, turn it over, and remove the 
mold. Heatin a saucepan two ounces of apricot marmalade with two 
tablespoonfuls of maraschino and one of water. Mix well, pour it over 
the charlotte, and serve very hot. 

1168. Small Apple Charlottes. Prepare and cook the apples the 
same as for No. 1167, and when removed from the fire, put it aside to cool. 
Trim the crust off of a quarter of a loaf of stale American bread. Cut it 
into slices the thickness of a silver dollar. Butter and sugar well six 
small, round pudding-molds. Shape the slices of bread carefully, to line 
the insides. Butter them lightly ; place them in a clean baking-pan, and 
leave in the oven for five minutes to get a brown color. Remove them; 
let them cool a little, and then line the molds with them. Fill in with 
the apples, and lay the full molds on a baking-pan in the oven for twenty 
minutes. Turn the charlottes out on a dessert-dish. Heat half a pint of 
raspberry juice in a saucepan, pour it over them, and serve hot. 

1169. Apples With Mice. Core and peel neatly six sound, fine New- 
town apples. Put into a saucepan with a gill of water and two ounces of 
sugar. Place it on a hot stove, put the lid on, and let cook for ten min- 
utes. Meanwhile boil four ounces of rice in a pint and a half of milk, 
with half a saltspoonful of salt. Flavor it with six drops of orange-flower 
water, and let cook for twelve minutes. Place the cooked apples in a 
square tin pan, pour the boiled rice over them, and put into a moderate 
oven for ten minutes. Then have a hot dessert-dish ready, and with a 
tinned cake-turner dress them carefully on the dish, decorating the sides 
with the rice. Should a pyramidal shape be desired, place three apples 
in the centre, two on top of these, and the last one above them all, then 
fill up the empty space around them with the rice, and serve with half a 
pint of vanilla syrup in a separate sauce-bowl. 

The sauce is made thus : put two pounds of granulated sugar into a 
saucepan with one quart of cold water, and set it on the hot stove. Stir 
well for two minutes ; add two vanilla-beans split in halves, and boil for 
ten minutes longer. Remove from the fire ; strain through a sieve into 
another vessel, and use when required. This syrup, when cold, may be 
poured into bottles, and if corked tightly and put away in a cool place, 
will keep in good condition for a month at least. 

1170* RlZ au Lait d'Amandes. Into one pint of boiling water in a 
saucepan drop four ounces of well-cleaned rice, with half a saltspoonful 
of salt, the peel of a quarter of a medium-sized, sound lemon, and two 
leaves of the almond branch. Let all cook together for twelve minutes. 
Meanwhile peel four ounces of almonds. Pound them in a mortar with 
two tablespoonfuls of sweet cream, or the same quantity of cold milk will 
answer. Tie a clean napkin over a vessel; pour on the pounded almonds, 



D ESSEX rs. 337 



and with'a spatula rub the liquid gently through. Remove the rice from 
the stove ; take out the almond-leaves and lemon-peel ; then sweeten with 
three ounces of powdered sugar, and add the almond milk. Return it to 
the stove, and with a spatula stir gently while cooking for twelve min- 
utes. Pour into a hot china or glass bowl, and send to the table. 

1171. Rizau Lait d'Amandes a PAirolo. Proceed and prepare the 
rice exactly as for the above (No, 1170), but after removing it from the 
stove add immediately half a gill of pure Swiss kirschwasser, mixing it 
in well with a spatula for five minutes. Pour into a china or glass bowl ; 
cool for one hour at least; then place it in the ice-box until ready to serve. 

1172. Riz aux Pommes a la Bonne Femme. Put a pint of milk m a 
saucepan on the stove. When boiling, add three ounces of well-cleaned 
rice and half a saltspoonful of salt. Let cook for twenty minutes, adding 
one ounce of butter. Mix for one minute ; then remove from the fire, 
and let it cool off for thirty minutes. Add the yolks of two eggs. Beat 
the whites to a froth in a basin with a wire whip, and add them to the 
rice. Sweeten with three ounces of powdered sugar and flavor with a 
teaspoonful of orange-flower water. Mix well together for five minutes. 
Peel and core four sound Newtown pippin apples, and cut in slices about the 
thickness of a silver dollar. Butter the sides of a saucepan lightly ; then 
cover the bottom with a layer of the prepared rice half an inch thick ; put 
a layer of sliced apples over this, and so dispose of all the apples and rice 
in alternate layers. Put on the lid, and put the saucepan into a moderate 
oven for fifteen minutes. Remove, dress on a hot dish, and serve. 

1178* RlZ ail Pommes a la Czar. Prepare rice and apples as above 
(No. 1172), but before putting into the oven, run a larding needle down 
through it in a dozen places at equal distances, and pour over half a gill 
of Russian kummel. Put on the lid; place in a moderate oven and let 
cook for twenty minutes. Remove, and dress it neatly on a dish, sending 
it to the table with a bowl of sauce a la creme (No. 1133), but using two 
tablespoonfuls of the kummel instead of the brandy for flavoring, as 
described in cocoanut pudding (No. 1147). 

1174. Turban of Apples an Riz. Prepare half a pound of boiled 
rice as for No. 1172. Butter a mold holding three pints. Garnish the 
bottom and sides with the rice, using a wooden spoon for the pur- 
pose. Peel, core, and cut into quarters six fine, sound, Newtown pip- 
pin apples. Put them into a saucepan with three ounces of pow- 
dered sugar, a gill of cold water, and half a saltspoonful ;>f salt. Place 
the pan on a hot stove, put on the lid, and let cook for ten minutes. 
Remove, and fill the mold with eighteen of the pieces, reserving the other 
six for later use; then put it in a slow oven for twelve minutes. Use an 
ordinary towel to remove it from the oven. Lay a dessert-dish on top, 
turn over, and lift off the mold. Decorate the base with the rest of the 
apples, inclining them slightly; and the top with two ounces of cleaned 
currants (No. 1080). Garnish between the apples with four ounces of 
candied fruits, placing some on top. Pears, angelica, and cherries, all sliced, 
make a pretty effect. Return to the oven for five minutes, and serve. 

22 



338 THE TABLE. 



1175. Iced Timbale ail Riz. Line a timbale - mold holding three 
pints with a quarter of a pound of pie-paste (No. 1077). Have ready 
three-quarters of a pound of boiled rice (No. 1172). Peel, core, and cut 
into quarters three fine, sound apples; put them into a saucepan with two 
ounces of powdered sugar, one ounce of butter, half a gill of cold water, 
and half a saltspoonful of salt. Cover, and let cook for ten minutes. Remove 
the lid, and add to the apples two tablespoonfuls of apricot marmalade 
(No. 1335). Stir slightly at the bottom for four minutes with the spatula, 
being careful to avoid breaking the apples. Cover the bottom and sides 
of the timbale with half a pound of the boiled rice; pour in the apples, 
lay the remainder of the rice on top, and cover with an ounce and a half of 
pie-paste. Put the timbale into a moderate oven, and cook for thirty 
minutes. When the surface is of a good golden color, remove, and put 
aside to cool thoroughly, leaving it at least two hours. Turn it over onto 
a dessert-dish, remove the mold, and lay the timbale in a short, low, ivide 
freezer; cover, then put it in a tub of nearly the same size, filling it well 
with chopped ice; sprinkle the top and sides freely with rock salt, and 
freeze thoroughly for an hour and a half. Remove the cover carefully 
to avoid any ice or salt falling into the freezer. Take out the timbale, and 
wipe well the dish. Have ready one pint of whipped cream (No. 1254) 
with half a gill of maraschino; beat this well for two minutes. Pour it 
over the timbale, and send immediately to the table. Should there be no 
freezer handy, the timbale may be cooled by placing in the ice-box for 
three hours. 

1176. Croustade de Riz Meringnee. On a floured board roll half a 
pound of feuilletage paste (No. 1076) into an oval shape, and a quarter of 
an inch thick. Lay it upside down on an oval dish ten inches long by six 
wide, and with a knife cut away the superfluous paste. Remove the 
dish, and place the oval paste in a baking-dish; then roll out the pieces 
which were cut away, and with a small fancy paste- cutter (No. i) cut 
it all up. With a small hair pastry-brush dipped in beaten egg, wet the 
edges of the oval, and arrange the pieces all around, crown-shaped. Bake 
this croustade in a moderate oven thirty minutes. Have ready six ounces 
of boiled rice (No. 1172). Peel and core six medium-sized fine apples. 
Put them into a saucepan with two ounces of powdered sugar, a gill of 
cold water, and half a saltspoonful of salt. Put on the lid, and let cook 
on a slow fire for twenty minutes. Arrange half the rice on the croustade, 
dress the apples over, and fill up the cavities with the rest of the rice. 
Add to the juice of the apples in the pan two ounces of apricot marma- 
lade (No. 1335). Mix well for two minutes and pour it over the whole. 
Then set it in a slow oven for fifteen minutes. Remove, and beat up two 
eggs as for a meringue (No. 1247), mixing in two ounces of powdered 
sugar. Put this into a pastry-bag (No. 1079), and decorate the surface of 
the croustade artistically with it, sprinkling a little sugar over. Return 
it to the oven for five minutes, to get a good color. Pass a knife gently 
under the croustade, and dexterously slide it from the baking-pan onto a 
hot dessert-dish, and serve. 



DESSERTS, 339 



1177. Rice with Milk. Cleanse well a quarter of a pound of fine Ital- 
ian rice. Place it in a saucepan with half a pint of water, adding half a 
pinch of salt, the zest of half a lemon, and one bay-leaf. Cook slowly for 
twenty-five minutes. Then put in three tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar and a pint of hot milk; finish cooking on a slow fire for ten minutes, 
and serve in a hot, deep dish. 

1178. Rice a la Turque. Wash well a quarter of a pound of rice, and 
blanch for ten minutes in boiling water. Put it into a saucepan, with a 
pint of milk, and let cook firmly; adding three tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar, and a lump of sugar onto which has been rubbed the peel of half a 
small lemon; also half an ounce of good butter, one ounce of cleaned cur- 
rants (No. 1080), and a saltspoonful of salt. After twenty minutes, 
remove from the fire and thoroughly stir in the yolks of four eggs. Place 
this in a croustade, as for 1176, and put it in a slow oven for fifteen min- 
utes. Remove, sprinkle with a little sugar, pass a hot shovel or salaman- 
der over the top; glaze it well, and serve at once. 

1179. Rice a FIndienne. Prepare the rice as for the above (No. 
1178), adding the third of a glassful of rum and a small infusion of 
diluted powdered saffron, to give it a good color. Serve glazed, as for 
the preceding (No. 1178). 

1180. Rice a la Franchise, Wash well, and blanch in boiling water 
for ten minutes, one-quarter of a pound of Italian rice. Boil in a sauce- 
pan with an ounce of butter, adding three tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar, a pint of milk, two bitter almond macaroons (No. 1209), half a tea- 
spoonful of orange-flower water, half an ounce of candied orange-peel cut 
into shreds, about twelve candied cherries cut into halves, and twelve 
large, seeded, Muscatel raisins (No. 1081); also a quarter of an ounce of 
thin slices of candied angelica. Finish as for rice a la Turque (No. 1178), 
and serve with a sauce thickened with a gill of Alicante or Val-de-peras 
wine, or sherry, kirsch, or rum. 

1181* Rice a la Conde. Boil one pint of milk with one pint of water. 
When boiling, add four ounces of well-cleaned rice. Boil twenty-five 
minutes, stirring at the bottom every three minutes with a spatula. Set 
the saucepan on a table; add half a saltspoonful of salt, four ounces of 
powdered sugar, and six drops of orange-flower water. Mix well for one 
minute, break in three whole eggs, and stir again for two minutes. 
Arrange the rice nicely in a hot dessert-dish, keeping it high in the centre, 
and decorate with twelve pieces of stewed peaches (No. 1332), two ounces 
of dried currants (No. 1080), and one ounce of candied angelica cut in 
small lozenge-shaped pieces; beginning with the peaches on the top, and 
arranging the remainder of the fruit around. 

1182. IVouiUeSj or Noodles. Sift onto a table one pound of flour; make 
a hollow space in the centre, and place therein six egg yolks, half a gill 
of lukewarm water, one ounce of fresh butter, and half a saltspoonful of 
salt. Knead these thoroughly for five minutes; then mix in the flour 
gradually, and knead again for five minutes. Pile up the paste into a 
lump, flour the table slightly, and use the left hand to press the paste 



340 THE TABLE. 



down in the centre, and with the right bring up the edges all around. 
Continue to repeat this for five minutes. Roll the paste into a ball, put 
it on a dish, cover with a napkin, and set it in a cool place to rest for 
fifteen minutes. Roll it out to the thickness of a fifty-cent piece. With a 
knife cut it into strips two inches wide, and from these, beginning at the 
end of each, shred it with the knife into narrow pieces resembling matches. 
Leave these to dry slightly on a floured board for thirty minutes, and they 
will be ready for use. 

1183. Buckwheat Cakes. Dilute one drachm of compressed yeast with 
a gill of lukewarm water, and let it rest for ten minutes. Add it to a half 
pound of buckwheat flour in a basin, pouring in a pint of cold water, and 
season with a light pinch of salt. Mix thoroughly with the spatula, cover 
the basin with a cloth, and let rest for four hours. 

Have a griddle large enough to hold six cakes. Grease lightly with a 
piece of fat pork-rind, and place it on a hot stove. Pour half of the batter 
into the six sections of the griddle, distributing it evenly. Bake two and 
a half minutes, turn over and bake two and a half minutes longer. Heap 
them on a hot dessert-dish. Make the other six exactly the same way. 
Send to the table with honey or maple sugar separately. 

11S4. Wheat Cakes. Put into a vessel four ounces of sifted wheat 
flour, half an ounce of powdered sugar, one drachm of compressed yeast. 
Break in four whole eggs, and mix well with the spatula for three minutes. 
Add half a pint of cold milk, and beat well with the pastry-whip for four 
minutes. Strain through a sieve into another vessel. Place on the stove 
a small griddle, greasing the surface lightly. Drop about two ounces of 
the batter onto the griddle; bake ten seconds; turn it with a cake-turner, 
and bake ten seconds on the other side. See that the cake is a light brown 
color on both sides. Put them on a hot dish, keeping it warm on a corner 
of the range, and proceed to make eleven more with the remainder of the 
batter. Serve very hot, with honey or maple sugar separately. 

1185. Batter for all Kinds of Frying. Put half a pound of flour into 
a basin. Make a hollow in the centre, and drop into it one egg yolk, half 
a teaspoonful of sweet oil, a tablespoonful of brandy, and a light saltspoon- 
ful of salt. Mix all the ingredients, except the flour, for three minutes, 
using the hand. Then gradually knead in the flour, meanwhile dropping 
in, little by little, one gill of cold water. Mix well, moving in the same 
direction for five minutes. Then put it into a vessel, cover with a cloth, 
and set aside to rest for three or four hours. When ready to use, beat 
the whites of three eggs to a froth with a pastry-whip, add it to the batter, 
and mix together thoroughly with the spatula for two minutes. It will 
now be ready for use, but should it not all be required, it will keep in a 
cool place. 

1186, French Pancakes. Sift half a pound of wheat flour into a bowl. 
Break in three whole eggs. Add one ounce of powdered sugar, and mix 
well with the spatula, adding half a pint of cold milk, pouring it in very 
gradually, and mixing for five minutes. Butter lightly a griddle or frying- 
pan; place it on the stove, and when it is hot, drop on to it two and a half 



DES SEATS. 341 



ounces of the batter, and bake two minutes ; turn over, and bake the 
other side as long. Turn the pancake on a hot dessert-dish, and sprinkle 
over plenty of powdered sugar. Make eleven more out of the remaining 
batter. Serve very hot. 

1187. French Pancakes a la Gelee. Make the batter exactly the same 
as for No. 1186. When cooked, arrange the pancakes neatly upon a nap 
kin, and spread over each one about a teaspoonful of currant jelly. Foil 
them up nicely, and dress on a hot dessert-dish, sprinkling a little pow 
dered sugar over. Then, with a red-hot iron, glaze the surface of each cake 
in three different parts ; wipe the sides of the dish nicely, and send to the 
table. 

French pancakes with apple, apricot, plum, pineapple, strawberry, 
raspberry, or peach jelly are to be prepared exactly the same, using differ- 
ent jellies. 

1188. German Pancakes. Prepare a batter as for French pancakes 
(No. 1 1 86) ; butter an iron pan, one foot in diameter and one and a half 
inches deep. Place this on a hot stove, and pour all the batter into it, 
letting it cook for three minutes. Remove to a brisk oven for seven min- 
utes. Take it out, slide the cake carefully on a hot dessert-dish, and send 
it to the table with six pieces of lemon. 

1189. German Pancakes with Apples. Prepare the batter exactly as 
for No. 1 1 86. Butter the pan as for the above. When the batter has been 
poured in, spread over it evenly, one pint of preserved apples, cut into 
small pieces, and finish cooking exactly as for the plain pancake (No. 1188). 
When ready, slide it carefully on a hot dessert-dish, sprinkle plentifully 
with powdered sugar, and send to the table very hot, with six pieces of 
lemon separately. 

1190. Batter for Fritters. Mix a quarter of a pound of sifted flour in 
a small basin, with half a pint of lukewarm water, to which three-quar- 
ters of an ounce of fresh butter has been added. Place in a saucepan, 
which should be tilted on the range so that when the water boils the 
butter can be skimmed off the top. Add, if necessary, a little more water 
to make a soft paste, beating well with a spatula, to keep it free from 
lumps, and of a proper consistence ; it must be gray and compact-looking. 
Add just a little warm water to render the paste soft and diluted, although 
sufficiently thick to cover the objects for which it is intended; that means, 
it must drop easily from the spoon. Add to this half a pinch of salt and 
two egg-whites ; beat well together for one minute, and use at once. 

1191. Apple Fritters. Take three medium-sized, fine, sound apples; 
peel and core them neatly. Cut each into six equal round slices. Place 
them in a vessel, pour over a gill of good brandy, add a light saltspoon- 
ful of ground cinnamon, and let all steep for two hours. Strain them 
through a fine sieve, being careful to keep them whole, and saving the 
liquid for further use. Prepare a fritter batter, as for No. 1190, dip each 
slice separately into it, and with a spoon, drop them singly into very hot 
but not boiling lard, being careful to remove them with a skimmer as 
soon as they are of a good golden color. Two minutes will be sufficient 



342 THE TABLE. 



to have them properly done. Then lay them on a clean cloth, to dry off 
the grease. Arrange a folded napkin on a hot dessert-dish ; arrange the 
fritters on it, and leave it at the oven door for two minutes. Dredge 
about an ounce of powdered sugar over, and serve. 

1192, Fritters Souffles a la Vanille. Infuse in a saucepan half of a 
vanilla-bean in half a pint of boiling milk, and reduce it to half. Remove 
the vanilla-bean, and put in one ounce of good butter. Let it come to a 
boil, then add two ounces of sifted flour, and with the spatula stir briskly, 
to form a paste so stiff that it will no longer adhere to the saucepan. 
Remove it to another vessel. Add one ounce of powdered sugar, two 
egg yolks, and half a saltspoonful of salt. Beat the white of one egg to 
a stiff froth, and mix it in with half a spoonful of whipped cream (No. 
1254); this will form a consistent paste. Roll it on a floured board, 
besprinkle lightly with flour, and cut out pieces the size of a walnut. 
With a skimmer drop them into very hot but not boiling fat. Cook 
quickly for three minutes, until they are a fine golden color. Arrange upon 
a folded napkin, and serve with powdered sugar sifted over. 

1198. Pound Cake. Put in a vessel half a pound of butter, with half 
a pound of powdered sugar. Grate in the rind of half a lemon, and with 
the hand knead well for twenty minutes. Break into a plate five whole 
raw eggs; add gradually and carefully, kneading sharply with the hand 
for ten minutes longer. Now add half a pound of well-sifted flour, mix- 
ing the whole slowly and thoroughly for five minutes more. Butter a 
two-quart, round cake-mold, and line it with brown paper at the bottom 
and sides. Fill it with the preparation, and put it in a slow oven to bake 
for fully one hour. Remove, and let cool off for about two hours. 
Unmold, detach the paper, and lay it on a pastry wire-grate. Glaze the 
top and sides with a preparation as for vanilla eclairs (No. 1245). Lay the 
cake on a dessert-dish with a fancy white paper. Prepare three ounces of 
candied cherries, two ounces of angelica, two ounces of red and the same 
of white pears, both candied; cut the cherries in two, the angelica lozenge- 
shaped, and the pears each in six parts (except one white one, which is 
kept whole), keeping the fruits all separate. Place the whole pear on top 
of the cake in the centre, stem upward. Then decorate thus : at the base 
of the pear lay two slices of red pear, carefully, one against the other on 
one side. Repeat on the other side, and arrange ^in the same way two 
slices of the white pear in the middle of the space on one side, and two 
more slices opposite. Now cover the four empty spaces nearest the pear 
with half a cherry each, and arrange four angelica lozenges in the empty 
place at the end of the layers of pear. Then on each of the four angelica 
points lay half a cherry. Begin decorating the edge of the cake all around 
in a crown-shape with one angelica lozenge, putting near the point one 
half cherry, then another lozenge, and continue the same all around until 
joined. Arrange the remaining slices of pear in the empty space near the 
border, and it will be ready to send to the table. 

1194. Wedding" Cake. Place in a large bowl one pound of powdered 
ugar and one pound of well-washed butter. Grate in the rind of two 



DESSERTS. 343 



lemons; and with the hand knead well for ten minutes. Break in ten 
whole eggs, two at a time, and knead for ten minutes longer. Mix in a 
plate a teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, a teaspoonful of ground cloves, 
two of ground allspice, one of mace, and one of grated nutmeg, and add 
these, with half a gill of confectioners' molasses. Mix well for one min- 
ute with the hand. Add one pound of well-sifted flour, stirring for two 
minutes more. Add two pounds of currants, as for No. 1080, two pounds 
of Sultana (No. 1080), two pounds of Malaga raisins (No. 1081), one 
pound of candied citron, finely sliced, one gill of Jamaica rum, and one 
gill of brandy. Mix the whole well together for fifteen minutes using 
both hands, if necessary. Butter the interior of a plain, five-quart, round 
cake-mold. Line the bottom and sides with paper, leaving it an inch and 
a half higher than the edge of the mold. Pour in all the preparation, and 
place it in a very slow oven to bake for five hours. When done, lay it on 
a table, to cool off for four hours. Unmold, detach the paper, and turn 
the cake bottom up on a wire pastry-grate. After ten minutes, glaze it 
with one egg-white which has been beaten in a bowl with four ounces of 
extra fine sugar, using the spatula; use a knife to apply the glazing. 
Now lay the cake in a warm place to dry for two hours. Then beat up 
the white of an egg with four ounces of extra fine sugar for ten minutes, 
and glaze the cake as before, evenly all around, and lay aside for two 
hours more. After it is thoroughly dried, lay it on a round wooden board, 
with a fancy paper over, two inches wider than the board. Procure a 
fancy wedding-bell, with a miniature bride and groom standing under, lay 
it in the centre of the cake, fastening it on with glace royale (No. 1206), 
pressing it through a paper cornet with a fancy tube. Decorate the sur- 
face of the cake with ornaments made of the glace; also a fancy border 
around the edge and base. Let it dry slightly for two hours, and it is 
ready for use. 

1195. Sponge Cake. Put into a copper basin half a pound of pow- 
dered sugar. Break in seven whole eggs, and grate in the rind of half a 
lemon. Beat well together with the wire whip for one minute ; then 
place it on a slow fire and heat it slightly, stirring it sharply and continu- 
ally. Take it from the fire, and beat it well until thoroughly cold. Re- 
move the whip, and with a skimmer mix in carefully and slowly half a 
pound of well-sifted flour; two minutes and a half will be sufficient. But- 
ter the interior of a one-quart, round cake-mold, and line it with paper, 
keeping it an inch and a half higher than the mold. Then fill it with the 
preparation, and bake for one hour and fifteen minutes in a moderate 
oven. Let it cool thoroughly for two hours; unmold, place it on a pastry 
wire-grate, and glaze it the same as for vanilla eclairs (No. 1245). Deco- 
rate artistically with a glace royale (No. 1206), arranging it in any desired 
fanciful design. Serve on a dessert-dish covered with a fancy paper. 

1196. Waffles, with Sugar. Put in a vessel three ounces of powdered 
sugar, one pound of flour, three raw eggs, three ounces of melted butter; 
mix all well together with a spatula for five minutes. Add a pint and a 
half of sweet cream, and mix again well for two minutes. Have your 



344 



THE TABLE. 



waffle-iron hot on both sides, and on a clear fire. Grease with melted 
butter, using a feather for the purpose, and drop into each of the holes 
two tablespoonfuls of the paste. Bake two minutes on each side, and if 
they have not a good golden color bake one minute longer on each side. 
Heap them as fast as cooked on a hot dessert-dish. When all are done, 
besprinkle plentifully with powdered sugar, and serve very hot. 

1197. Savarin Cakes. Dissolve two drachms of compressed yeast in 
a gill of lukewarm cream. Add four ounces of sifted flour, knead well 
for two minutes, and set in a warm place for five minutes. Sift into 
another vessel six ounces of flour. Make a hollow in the centre, and 
pour into it two ounces of powdered sugar, four eggs, a gill of lukewarm 
milk, and a saltspoonful of salt. Knead these well for two minutes, but 
do not mix in the flour. Add three ounces of melted butter and half a 
gill of cura^oa (or any other liquor desired), then knead in the flour with 
the other ingredients, adding the yeast-dough previously laid aside, and 
mix with the hands, briskly beating the whole in a contrary direction for 
twenty minutes without ceasing. Cover with a cloth, and set in a warm 
closet to raise double, which will take about half an hour. Butter a 
crown-shaped mold holding about three pints. When ready, take two 
ounces of peeled almonds (No. 1207), mince fine, and add them to the 
dough, and beat well together for two minutes longer. Then with a 
spoon drop the paste carefully into the mold ; this not being quite filled 
to the top. Set aside again in the warm closet until the paste raises to 
the edge ; then place in a moderately brisk oven for twenty-five minutes. 
Should the oven be slow, thirty-five minutes will be necessary. To 
ascertain whether the cake be perfectly baked, thrust the point of a lard- 
ing-needle into the centre, and should any dough adhere to it, the cake 
must be left in five minutes longer. 

When done, turn it out on a plain, round wire grate, and glaze it with 
a firm glace a 1'eau made as follows : put into a sugar-pan one ounce of 
granulated sugar, with one tablespoonful of cold water, and let it come to 
a boil ; remove, and add immediately a tablespoonful of cura^oa, mixing 
well together. Glaze the cake with this, then let cool. Place a folded 
napkin on a dessert-dish, dress the cake nicely on top, and serve. 

1198. Savarin Cake, hot. -Prepare a savarin cake exactly as for the 
above (No. 1197), and when unmolded, place it on a wire grate, but do 
not glaze it. Pour into a saucepan a pint of cold water with five ounces 
of granulated sugar, and let boil for five minutes. Take it off, and add 
immediately half a gill of kirsch, mixing it in well. Place the grate with 
the savarin in a vessel, take hold of the handle with the right hand, and 
drop the syrup carefully all over the top; lift up the grate and cake. Re- 
move the syrup remaining in the vessel into the pan, boil it again; return 
the grate and cake to the vessel, and pour over the remaining syrup. 
Then, lifting the grate on one side, glide the cake carefully onto a dessert- 
dish. Put into a saucepan four ounces of candied cherries with half a gill 
of kirsch. Stir it slightly until it comes to a boil and decorate the top of 
the cake with it ; then serve. 



D ESSEX rs. 



345 



1199. Savarin Cake a 1'Anglaise. Prepare a savarin cake as for No. 
1197; when unmolded, place it on a wire grate ; do not glaze it. Cut it 
evenly through the centre, so as to make two equal discs. Garnish the 
top of the under one with four ounces of apricot marmalade (No. 1335); 
arrange the other half on top as carefully as possible, so that the cake has 
its original form. Have a dessert-dish with a folded napkin ; dress the 
cake on top, and serve with a sauce-bowl of creme a 1'Anglaise (No. 1200) 
separately. 

1200. Creme & 1'Anglaise. Put into a saucepan two ounces of butter 
and one ounce of flour. Place on a slow fire, and with a spatula stir 
slightly for two minutes, adding two ounces of sugar, half a gill of 
Madeira wine, and one gill of Middletown milk; stir well again for two 
minutes, to avoid its coming to a boil. Then take it from the fire, and 
immediately add half a gill of rum, stirring it slightly again. Pour the 
creme into a sauce-bowl and serve with the savarin. 

1201. Brioches. Take half a pound of sifted flour, put two ounces of 
it into a vessel. Make a hollow in the centre, and put into this two 
drachms of compressed yeast and half a gill of lukewarm milk. Dissolve 
well the yeast with the milk for about one minute, then quickly beat in 
the flour for one minute. Cover the vessel with a cloth, and let it rest in 
a warm closet for fifteen minutes. Put in another vessel the remaining 
six ounces of flour, make a hollow in the centre, and put into it half a 
saltspoonful of salt, three whole eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sweet cream, 
two ounces of fresh butter, and one ounce of powdered sugar. Mix 
thoroughly with the hand, all except the flour, for three minutes, men 
incorporate the flour gradually, and beat it sharply with the hands for three 
minutes. Add one egg, beat one minute; add another, and beat one min- 
ute longer. Take four ounces of fresh butter, spread it in pieces over the 
paste, then mix in well for two minutes. The yeast being properly raised 
double by this time, add it to the other ingredients, and mix the whole 
carefully by cutting it several times with the hand, being sure to repeat 

,this for at least five minutes. Cover the vessel with a cloth, and lay it in 
a closet or elsewhere, at a moderate temperature of about*eighty degrees, 
for three hours, when it will be raised to twice the size. Then with the 
right hand cut it again into pieces in every direction, for about four min- 
utes. Then recover the vessel with the cloth, and leave it in a cool 
place for thirty minutes. Dredge a board with flour, pour the paste over 
it; then cut off a three-ounce piece, and lay it aside. With the hands roll 
up the remaining part of the paste into a ball. .. Butter well a round, two- 
quart mold, line it with paper, and put in the paste. Take the piece laid 
aside, and roll it pear-shaped with the hands. Make a small cavity in the 
centre of the paste in the mold, using a spoon. Arrange the pear-shaped 
piece in this, having the larger part on top. Then lay the mold on a 
baking-sheet ; glaze the top lightly with beaten egg, and put it in a 
moderate oven. After it has been in fifteen minutes, cover it with a 
buttered paper, close the oven door, and bake lor one hour more , test it 
by thrusting in a larding-needle, and if no dough adheres to this the brioche 



34 6 THE TABLE. 



is thoroughly cooked: if not, leave it in ten minutes longer. Remove 
from the oven, unmold, and let it cool. Dress on a dessert-dish with a 
folded napkin, and serve. 

1202. Small Brioches. Prepare the dough as for the above (No. 
1201), and when raised to twice the size, lay it upon a board which has 
been lightly dredged with flour. Cut out a piece of three ounces, and lay 
it aside until needed, then cut the rest of the paste into twelve equal 
pieces, and with the right hand roll them into separate balls. Lay these 
in a pastry baking-pan. Divide the paste laid aside into twelve parts, roll 
them out, and give each a pear-shape. With a spoon make a cavity in the 
centre of each ball, and put into each one of the pear pieces, having the 
larger part on the top. Leave them to rise in a closet for fifteen minutes; 
glaze them lightly with beaten egg, and put them in a brisk oven for twelve 
or fifteen minutes, but no longer. Remove, and with a light hair-brush 
glaze them all over with fresh butter. Keep in a warm place until ready 
to serve. If the brioches should be required cold, do not glaze them with 
butter, but dress them on a dessert-dish with a folded napkin. It is better 
to prepare the paste the evening previous, covering it with a cloth, and 
leaving it in a cool place over night. 

1203. Brioche a la Conde. Have a brioche cooked as for No. 1201, 
and when done, cut it in two, crosswise. Then with a spoon spread over 
the top of the lower half four ounces of apricot marmalade (No. 1335), 
mixed with one ounce of melted butter. Then replace the other half on 
top. Put in a saucepan two ounces of candied cherries, four ounces of 
candied apricots, cut in slices, and four ounces of candied pineapple. Add 
half a pint of cold water, and boil well together on a hot fire for three 
minutes. Dress the brioche on a dessert-dish, pour the preparation over, 
and serve hot. 

1204. Brioches Flllttes. Prepare a brioche paste, as for No. 1203 ; 
lay it on a floured board, and cut it into twelve equal pieces. Roll out 
each one separately with the hands until it is ten inches, or three finger- 
lengths, long, rounding them into shape. Put them in a pastry baking- 
pan, and leave them in a closet to rise for ten minutes ; take out and 
glaze them lightly with beaten eggs, sprinkle them over with powdered 
sugar, and put them in the oven for ten minutes ; remove, and dress them 
on a dessert-dish with a folded napkin, and serve when cool. These 
brioches will keep well for three or four days, and they are delicious 
when served with tea, coffee, or chocolate. 

1205. Allumettes. Take three quarters of a pound of feuilletage (No. 
1076) ; spread it out twelve inches long to four inches wide. Cover with 
a thin layer of glace royale (No. 1206). Divide it into six even pieces ; 
put them in a pan, and let rest for five minutes. Then place in a moder- 
ate oven, and bake for forty minutes, until of a good golden color. Serve 
either hot or cold. 

1206. Glace Eoyale for Allumettes. Put into a small bowl half the 
white of a raw egg and two ounces of extra fine sugar, and beat well, 
with a spatula. Drop in carefully just one drop, and no more, of lemon 



DESSERTS. 347 



juice; beat again for five minutes, until thickened; it will then be ready 
for use. 

1207. How to Peel and Pound Almonds. Put the almonds into boil- 
ing water; let them soak three minutes; strain, and lay them in cold 
water to thoroughly cool. 'Drain well again, and peel by pressing each 
almond between the thumb and fingers. Then put them into a sieve, and 
place them at the door of a slow oven to dry for ten minutes. Now pound 
them gently in a mortar, stirring well to prevent them from getting oily, 
and taking care to pound them very fine for at least ten minutes. Lay 
them on a cold dish, and use when needed. 

1208. Almond Cake Grlace. Put a quarter of a pound of powdered 
sugar and a quarter of a pound of butter into a bowl; beat well together 
with a wooden spatula for ten minutes. Break in two eggs; beat well, 
and break in two more; continue beating, and break in two more (six in 
all), until well mixed together. Then grate in the peel of the third of a 
small lemon. Add two ounces of peeled and pounded almonds (No. 1207), 
and a quarter of a pound of flour. Mix gradually together for no longer 
than two minutes. Butter and sugar a round form holding one quart, 
and pour the preparation into it. Place it in a slow oven for one hour. 
See that it gets a good golden color. Take it out; let it get thoroughly 
cool, and remove from the mold. Lay it on a dish with a folded napkin. 
Glaze the top lightly with a small hair-bush, as for No. 1206, until it 
looks well, and send to the table. 

1209. Bitter Almond Macaroons. Take a quarter of a pound of sweet 
almonds, and two ounces of bitter almonds; peel and pound them as for 
No. 1307. Put them into a bowl with twelve ounces of powdered sugar 
and the whites of two eggs. Mix thoroughly with a wooden spatula for 
at least five minutes. Then take a pastry-bag (No. 1079), slide down to 
the bottom of it a No. 3 tube (which should not be larger than a five-cent 
piece), and pour the preparation into the bag. Prepare a pastry baking- 
pan; lay on it a piece of brown paper the full size of the pan (do not put 
it on the stove at present); then with the two hands press the preparation 
down gently into the papered pan, dropping it carefully into bits the size 
and shape of a silver quarter-dollar, trying to have them as near alike as 
possible, and taking care that each is entirely separated from the others. 
Take a damp towel and drop it gently on to the macaroons, so as to shape 
them perfectly. Then place the pan in a slow oven for twenty minutes. 
Before lifting them out, be careful that they are a good golden color. Let 
them get thoroughly cool. To remove the macaroons easily from the 
paper, wet part of a table; lay the paper over this for two minutes, and 
the macaroons will detach very easily. The above quantity will make 
about fifty macaroons. Put aside in a jar those not needed, as they will 
keep perfectly fresh for several days. 

1210. Sweet Macaroons. Proceed as for bitter macaroons (No. 1209), 
only omitting the two ounces of bitter almonds, and substituting for them 
two extra ounces of sweet almonds, or six ounces in all. 

1211. Apple Cake. Peel and core four fine, sound pippin apples. 



THE TABLE. 



Put them into a saucepan with two ounces of boiled and peeled chestnuts, 
and a piece of cinnamon an inch long. Toss well on the fire for ten min- 
utes, then transfer them to a copper basin, stirring in a teaspoonful of 
corn-starch, and adding a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar. Place 
on a slow stove for ten minutes, then put aside. When thoroughly 
cooled, add three egg yolks and one whole one ; mix well with a wooden 
spatula, and the preparation will be ready for use. Take a three-pint, 
square mold, butter it lightly, and with a small hair-brush sprinkle in a 
little powdered sugar, and pour in the prepared apple. Place the mold io 
a tin pastry-pan, filling the latter to half the height of the mold with cold 
water,' and place the whole in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Take 
the mold from the pan, and lay on top of it a hot, deep dessert-dish, 
slightly larger than the cake ; turn the mold bottom up, and lift it off, 
leaving the cake on the dish. While the cake is in the oven, prepare the 
following sauce : mix in a saucepan two egg yolks, one ounce of pow- 
dered sugar, half a pint of water, and half a teaspoonful of ground cinna- 
mon. Place on a brisk fire, and stir constantly for five minutes, not 
allowing it to boil. When the cream is ready, add half a glassful or a 
gill of rum, or any other kind of liquor. Mix well for half a minute, pour 
the sauce over the cake, and serve very hot. 

1212. St. Honors ll la Rose Delmonico. Peel neatly two medium- 
sized, sound, red oranges. Separate the sections carefully to avoid tear- 
ing the skin, as, should they lose any of their juice, they would become 
useless. Lay a sheet of paper over a tin pan, arrange the pieces of 
orange on top, and leave them in a warm place to dry for four hours. 
Wipe neatly twenty-four Malaga grapes, leaving on each about a quarter 
of an inch of stem, so that they shall remain firm while using them. Beat 
up a pint and a half of sweet cream a la vanille as for No. 1254, and lay it 
aside in a cool place until needed. Roll three ounces of pie-paste (No. 
1077) into a round piece eight inches in diameter. Lay it on a baking- 
sheet ten inches wide, and proceed to prepare a pate-a-chou as follows : 

Put into a saucepan a gill of cold milk with one ounce of good butter, 
place it on a hot fire, and when boiling, add at once three ounces of well- 
sifted flour. Stir briskly with the spatula all round ; take it from the 
fire, set on a table, and add immediately a saltspocnful of powdered 
sugar, mixing well for one minute more. Break in an egg, stir briskly 
for one minute, break in another, mix again, and then another, mixing all 
together for two minutes. Slide down the pastry-bag (No. 1079) a tube 
(No. 3), pour in the above preparation, and press down the top with the 
hands onto the edge of the paste in the baking-sheet, so as to make an even 
border half an inch high, and with the remainder of the paste press down 
onto another baking-sheet into twenty-four small, round choux, half an inch 
in diameter, leaving them one inch apart. Glaze the surfaces with beaten 
egg, and place them in a brisk oven to bake for twelve minutes. Remove, 
and let them get thoroughly cold. Spread over the paste, inside the bor- 
der, two tablespoonfuls of apple sauce (No. 1328); then put it in a mod- 
erate oven to bake for twenty-five minutes. Remove, and put to cool for 



DESSERTS. 349 



thirty minutes. Make a paper cornet, cut off a quarter of an inch from 
the point, and put into it three ounces of currant jelly (No. 1326). Press 
this out gently, dividing it evenly into the twenty-four small choux. 
Cook one pound of granulated sugar as for No. 1264. Oil two square 
feet of the surface of a marble table, and place at hand the pan containing 
the sugar. Plunge one of the grapes into this ; remove it immediately 
with a fork and lay it on the oiled table. Proceed the same with the other 
twenty-three, being careful to lay them one inch apart from each oth?r. 
Now dip twelve of the sections of prepared oranges into the sugar, one by 
one, and lay them on the oiled table exactly the same as the grapes. Dip 
carefully the surfaces of the small choux into the sugar, and lay them on 
the same oiled table. Then take the St. Honore bottom in the baking- 
sheet, and proceed to arrange it as follows : with the cooked sugar stand- 
ing on the right, lift the choux up, one by one, dipping one side of each 
lightly in the cooked sugar, arranging them on top of the pate-a-chou 
border close together to form a crown. Should the sugar be too thick, 
return it to the stove, and let it boil up once ; then take it off, and dip the 
thin part of the oranges lightly in it, and lay them over the small choux, 
the thick part upward, each one adhering to the other, until they form 
the crown. Dip the tops of the grapes lightly into the same sugar, 
and place one on each join of the oranges, with another in the centre, the 
stems being upward ; attach to the small choux the six remaining grapes, 
dividing them evenly. Arrange a fancy paper on a dessert-dish, and lay 
the St. Honore over carefully, then take the froth part only of the 
whipped cream ; transfer it to another vessel, and, with the whip, beat 
briskly for five minutes, adding half a gill of good cognac, a quarter of a 
gill of Swiss kirsch, and three ounces of well-pounded and sifted maca- 
roons (No. 1210). Mix well together for two minutes longer, and fill the 
empty space of the St. Honore with three-quarters of this preparation, 
keeping it as high as possible. With the use of the pastry-bag and fancy 
tube press down the rest of the cream, and decorate artistically the top 
and sides, taking care not to put any on the oranges, and send to the 
table. 

1213. Gingerbread a la Franchise. Make a hollow space in a pound 
of flour laid on the table. Peel and chop up very fine five ounces of 
almonds; put them into the hollow with a saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, 
the same quantity of ground cloves, four ounces of powdered sugar, and 
seven ounces of fresh honey. Knead the ingredients well for five minutes, 
then mix in the flour, and knead the preparation with the hands in all 
directions for fully thirty minutes without ceasing. Finish by forming it 
into a ball. Lay this on a dish, cover it with a napkin, and place it in a 
temperature of about 60 for six hours. Lay the paste on a floured table, 
and roll it out eighteen inches long by twelve wide. Butter well a baking- 
sheet, lay the paste on top, and put it in a very slow oven to bake for 
forty-five minutes. Remove, lay the baking-sheet on the table, cutthecake 
immediately into small pieces, lozenge shaped, one and a half inches long 
by one inch wide, or any other shape desired; let cool off thoroughly for 



350 THE TABLE. 



about twenty minutes, then dress on a glass bowl, and serve. The above 
cakes can be glazed with a glace a 1'eau, as for No. 1197, and served the 
same. 

1214. Strawberry Shortcake. Put into a vessel half a pound of 
powdered sugar with half a pound of well-washed butter, grate in the 
rind of half a sound lemon, and, with the hand, mix well for ten minutes. 
Break in five whole eggs, one at a time, meanwhile mixing for ten min- 
utes longer, always with the hand. Then add gradually half a pound of 
well-sifted flour, and mix for three minutes. Cover a baking-sheet with 
brown paper, place on top three tin cake-rings, nine inches in diameter 
and one inch high. Divide the preparation equally into the three rings; 
then place in a moderate oven to bake for thirty minutes. Remove, and 
allow the cakes thirty minutes more to cool. Lift up the paper, with the 
cakes, turn it upside down on the table, remove the paper, and detach the 
cakes from the rings by passing a knife all around. Pick and clean thor- 
oughly three pints of fine, sound, ripe strawberries; have a dessert-dish 
with a fancy paper over, lay one of the cakes on top of this, spread over 
eve-nly two tablespoonfuls of whipped cream (No. 1254), then cover 
with half the strawberries, nicely and evenly divided. Sprinkle liberally 
with powdered sugar, then cover with another cake, spread over the same 
quantity of cream as before, then arrange the other half of the strawber- 
ries on top; dredge again with powdered sugar, and lay the last cake over 
all, sprinkling with more sugar. Slide down a tube (No. 2) into a pastry- 
bag (No. 1079), put into it six tablespoonfuls of whipped cream a la vanille 
(No. 1254), and with it decorate the top of the cake in an artistic manner, 
and send to the table. 

1215. Blackberry Shortcake. Prepare and proceed exactly the 
same as for strawberry shortcake (No. 1214), only substituting three pints 
of well-picked, and thoroughly cleaned, fine, sound, ripe blackberries for 
the strawberries, and serving the same. 

1216. Baba. Have ready half a pound of the best flour, one drachm 
of compressed yeast, and half a gill of warm water. Put three ounces of 
the flour into a vessel, make a hollow in the centre, and in it lay the yeast 
and water; with the hands mix the yeast gently with the water for three 
minutes, then mix all together gradually for three minutes more. 
Cover the vessel with a towel, and leave it in the warmest 
place in the kitchen (not on the stove), and after thirty minutes it will 
rise to twice the size. Lay the remainder of the flour on the table, make 
a hollow in the centre, putting in it an ounce of powdered sugar and four 
raw eggs. Mix the sugar and eggs with the hands; then add a gill of 
cream and half a gill of good Madeira wine. Season with a drachm of 
very fine salt, and mix all with the flour for five minutes. Make a hollow 
in the centre again, and into this put five ounces of good, fresh, soft butter; 
mix well again for two minutes. If the prepared yeast-dough be now 
raised to its proper height, mix the two pastes together for at least five 
minutes; return it to the vessel, leave it in the same warm place, covering 
it as before. When rested one hour, have ready two ounces of cleaned 



DES SEATS. 351 



Sultana currants (No. 1080), two ounces of cleaned raisins (No. io8i),and 
one ounce of finely chopped citron. Grease with cold butter the inside of 
a cylindrical copper or tin form large enough to hold three pints. If the 
paste be now raised to twice the size, mix in the raisins, currants, and 
citron, stirring for five minutes; put it in the mold, and lay it in a warm 
place (not on the stove) for another twenty minutes. Then place it in a 
moderate oven for one hour. When a good golden color, remove, and let 
it cool slightly. Place a round dish over the mold, turn upside down, 
lift off the form, and glaze the cake with a glace a 1'eau (No. 1197). Deco- 
rate the top and dish with candied fruits, and send to the table. 

1217. Baba ail Madere. Prepare a baba cake exactly the same as for 
the above (No. 1216); but do not glaze it. Slit the cake in two, and remove 
the top piece. Pour a pint of cold water in a very clean pan, add half a 
pound of sugar and half a medium-sized sound lemon. Place it on the 
stove, and boil well for three minutes; then remove, and at once add a 
gill of good sherry wine and half a gill of curaoa. Lay the top part of 
the cake in a round, flat-bottomed vessel. To avoid breaking it, a wire 
basket is recommended, with which it can be lowered carefully onto the 
pan. Pour gradually over it the prepared sauce; let it rest for two min- 
utes, then replace it carefully on top of the other half of the cake. 
Arrange it nicely on a dessert serving-dish, garnish tastefully with can- 
died cherries, and decorate the border with small, thin slices of candied 
pineapple. 

For Baba au Rhum, substitute Jamaica rum for the sherry. 

1218. Baba, Creme a la Vanille. Prepare a baba cake as for No. 
1216. When removed from the mold and laid on a dish, cut it into six 
equal parts. Take six ounces of apricot marmalade (No. 1335), and pro- 
ceed as follows : take one piece of cake in the left hand, and with a knife 
in the right, cover both sides, where they were cut, with the marmalade. 
When finished, arrange the six pieces together on the dish, and give them 
the same form as before they were cut; to be eaten with the following 
sauce (No. 1219). 

1219. Creme a la Yanille Sauce. Boil one pint of cold milk in a 
saucepan; put three egg yolks into a small vessel with two ounces of pow- 
dered sugar, one ounce of flour, and a piece of vanilla-bean one inch long. 
Beat well together with a wire whip for two minutes. Pour this into the 
boiling milk. Stir again briskly with the whip until it boils once more; 
remove from the fire, and add half a f gill of maraschino. Beat again for 
one minute, and pour the cream nicely over the cake before sending to 
the table. 

1220. Home-made Cake. Put into a bowl half a pound of sugar and 
half a pound of good butter. Mix thoroughly with the hand for fifteen 
minutes. Break four eggs, leaving the whites in a basin, and drop the 
yolks in with the butter and sugar. Mix again. Now beat the whites to 
a froth and add them to the other ingredients. Grate in half a saltspoon- 
ful of nutmeg; add half a pound of flour; mix well again; stir in two 
ounces of well-cleansed currants (No. 1080), and two ounces of peeled 



352 THE TABLE. 



sweet almonds (No. 1207) out into small pieces. Mingle all well together 
with the hand for five minutes, and with the other hand drop in one gill 
of brandy. Have a round cake-mold holding two quarts; butter it lightly 
with a hair brush, and sprinkle in a little sugar. Drop a third of the 
preparation into the mold; spread over it two ounces of candied orange, 
shred into thin slices; then add half of the remaining preparation; spread 
on top of it two ounces of shred, candied citron, and fill the mold with the 
rest. Lay a piece of brown paper over, and put the mold into a very mod- 
erate oven for two hours. Let it get a good golden color. Remove, and 
cool off in the mold, which will take about three hours. Remove the cake 
by turning it bottom up. Arrange a lace paper on a dessert-dish. Glaze 
the cake with a glace a 1'eau (No. 1197), dress it on the dish, and deco- 
rate the top and border tastefully with assorted candied fruits. 

1221. Plain Galette. Knead well and finely together in a vessel one 
pound of good flour with six ounces of fresh butter, one gill of cold water, 
and a saltspoonful of salt. After ten minutes, when it becomes soft, roll 
it into a flat, circular cake using a rolling-pin, well floured, to prevent 
its adhering. Place it in a baking-pan. Bake in a very slow oven for 
thirty-five minutes. When a nice light color, remove and let it cool. Serve 
it on a dessert-dish, over a folded napkin. 

1222* Rice Cake. Boil two ounces of rice for twenty-five minutes. 
When well done, drain, and add to it a short paste, made of half a pound 
of flour, six ounces of butter, two egg-whites, and half a saltspoonful of 
salt. Pound the paste and rice well together in a mortar, and have a bak- 
ing-pan covered with a sheet of buttered paper; lay the paste on top, 
spreading it out about six inches square. Put it in the oven for twenty 
minutes. Remove it, detach it from the paper, lay it on a dessert-dish, 
with a folded napkin, and serve hot. 

Vermicelli cake is prepared the same way, only the vermicelli should 
not cook longer than twelve minutes. 

1223. Mille-feuilles Cake. Take a pound of short paste or feuille- 
tage (No. 1076), and divide it into five equal parts. Roll out each piece 
twelve inches long by four wide, then lay them in a baking-pan, sprinkle 
a little powdered sugar over, and place them in the oven for ten minutes. 
Remove, and form the cake by laying these one on top of the other, with 
layers of preserves between, each layer being of different colored pre- 
serves. Put the fifth piece on top of the last layer for a cover. Then cut 
the cake into six equal pieces ; decorate either with different colored pre- 
serves, or with whipped cream (No. 1254), and serve on a dessert-dish 
with a folded napkin. 

1224. Almond Cake* Make a plain paste in a vessel with four ounces 
of butter, three egg yolks, half a pound of well-sifted flour, four ounces 
of powdered sugar, a quarter of a pound of finely pounded almonds (No. 
1207), a saltspoonful of salt, and about six drops of orange-flower water. 
Mix and stir well for five minutes. It will then be of a proper consistency, 
spread it round about eight, inches in diameter on a buttered paper in a 
pan, and with a light hair-brush moisten the surface slightly with beaten 



DESSERTS. 



353 



egg. Bake twenty minutes. Remove, detach from the paper, set away 
to cool, and serve. 

1225. Cake de Pitlliviers. Put in a vessel four ounces of pounded 
almonds (No. 1207), half a pound of powdered sugar, two ounces of 
chopped, candied lemon-peel, and a quarter of a pound of good, fresh but- 
ter. Mix in gradually four eggs, well beaten, and finish as for the almond 
cake (No. 1224), serving it the same. 

1226. Madeleine. Rub the rind of two small lemons on a lump of 
sugar ; crush it very fine with a roller, mixing three ounces of powdered 
sugar with it. Put two ounces of this into a saucepan with two ounces of 
sifted flour, one egg yolk, and two whole eggs, two teaspoonfuls of good 
brandy, and half a saltspoonful of salt. Stir all together with a wooden 
spatula, and after two minutes, when the paste is well mixed, stir it again 
for one minute only. Put two ounces of good butter into a separate sauce- 
pan ; as soon as the scum rises, stir it carefully for one minute, and let it 
cool slightly. Then spread it well over the sides of a three-pint made- 
leine-mold. Put the saucepan containing the preparation on a very slow 
fire ; stir slightly to prevent it adhering to the bottom of the sauce- 
pan, and as soon as it becomes liquid take it off, and fill the mold. Lay it 
in a moderately heated oven for forty-five minutes ; remove, and let cool. 
Unmold it on a dessert-dish over a folded napkin, and serve. 

1227. Madeleine Printaniere. Prepare the cake as for the above 
(No. 1226) until the mold is ready to be filled. Butter the interiors of 
twelve small madeleine-molds, fill them with the preparation, lay them on 
a pastry baking-pan, and place them in a moderate oven for twenty min- 
utes. Remove, let them cool, unmold, and turn them up-side down ; cut 
a piece from the thinnest part of the top of each madeleine to serve as a 
cover. With a dessert-spoon scoop out of each madeleine a cavity one 
inch deep, fill this with a plombiere a la vanille (No. 1294). Replace the 
covers, lay them on a wire grate, and, withabrush, glaze gently with glace 
a 1'eau (No. 1197), flavored with two tablespoonfuls of strawberry juice, 
and sprinkle over with three ounces of well-chopped pistache. Place in 
the oven for one minute more ; then dress on a dessert-dish with a folded 
napkin, and serve. 

1228. Milan Cake. One pound of flour, half a pound of butter, half 
a pound of powdered sugar, and four whole eggs. Sift the flour on the 
table. Make a hollow in the centre, and fill it with the sugar and butter, 
and the grated rind of a lemon. Knead well the butter and sugar for 
three minutes ; add the eggs, one at a time, and incorporate the flour 
slowly, so as not to burn the paste. Let it rest for about half an hour in a 
cool place. Then roll out about a quarter of an inch thick. Cut out six 
pieces with a round cake-cutter ; glaze the surfaces with beaten .egg and 
milk, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. When cold, dress 
on a dessert-dish with a folded napkin, and serve. Keep the rest of the 
paste for further use, as it will remain sweet and fresh for two or three 
days. 

1229. Rum Cake. Half a pound of flour, two ounces of sugar, three 

23 



,54 THE TABLE. 



whole eggs, one ounce of butter, and two drachms of compressed yeast. 
Sift the flour on a board. Take one third of it ; make a hollow in its 
centre, and put into it the yeast and half a gill of warm milk. When the 
yeast is dissolved, mix well for one minute. Then put it into a bowl, 
cover with a cloth, and let it rise in a warm place until twice the size. Take 
the rest of the flour, make a hollow in the centre, and put into it the 
sugar, eggs, and six drops of orange-flower water. Knead well together, 
slowly incorporating the flour ; then gradually add the butter and the 
prepared yeast-dough. Mix all together for five minutes ; return to the 
bowl, and again lay it aside to rise to twice its -size. Butter well six 
round rum-cake molds, fill them about three quarters high with the 
dough, and let it rise until they are full; then lay them on a baking-pan 
in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. When well browned, remove, 
unmold, place them on a pastry-wire, and pour over them a sauce made 
thus : put a quarter of a pound of sugar in a saucepan with half a pint 
of water, adding half a sliced lemon. When boiling, take from the fire, 
and pour in half a gill of rum, then throw it over the cakes. Dress on a 
dish, and serve. 

1230. Rice Cake h la Mazzini. Put a pint of cold milk into a sauce- 
pan on a hot stove, and when it boils add half a pound of well-cleaned 
rice and let it cook slowly for twenty minutes, stirring frequently to the 
bottom with a spatula. Then set the saucepan in a cool place for thirty 
minutes. Add six ounces of powdered sugar ; mix well for one minute, 
and break in three whole eggs ; flavor with eight drops of orange-flower 
water, mixing well together for three minutes longer. Take a quarter of 
a pound of pie-paste (No. 1077), roll it out very thin, and with it line a 
three-pint, round, channeled mold ; fill it with the preparation, and place 
it in a moderate oven to bake for forty minutes. Remove, and let it 
become thoroughly cold, which will take an hour. Then unmold, and lay 
the cake over a round pastry - grate. Have a quarter of a pound of 
vanilla eclair glazing (No. 1245), put it in a saucepan, adding a teaspoon- 
ful of cold water. Place it on the hot range, and with a spatula mix it 
gently and thoroughly until it becomes lukewarm ; then pour it over the 
cake. Arrange the cake on a dessert-dish, and serve. 

1231. Biscuits h la Cuillere, or Lady-fingers. Put four ounces of 
powdered sugar and the yolks of five eggs into a small bowl. Beat thor- 
oughly with a spatula for five minutes. Put the whites of the eggs into 
a copper basin, and with a wire whip beat them to a stiff froth. Add to 
the sugar and yolks four ounces of flour ; mix together gently for half a 
minute, and immediately add the whites. Beat gently for one minute 
more, and the preparation will be ready. Take a well-cleaned pastry-bag 
(No. 1079), slide into it a No. 2 tube, and with a wooden spoon or small 
skimmer pour the preparation into the bag. When it is all in, close the 
upper part of the bag very firmly, and lay it aside for one moment. Take 
two separate sheets of solid, brown paper, each measuring seventeen 
inches long by five inches wide ; lay them on the table, one beside the 
other. Take hold of the lower part of the bag near the tube with the left 



D ESSEX TS. 355 



hand, and the upper part with the right, press with the latter, and drop 
the batter on the paper in straight strips four inches long by one inch 
wide. Make ten of equal size on each paper, being careful to leave an 
empty space of three quarters of an inch between each. Then with a 
sugar-dredger sprinkle them lightly with powdered sugar three times, at 
one minute's interval between each sprinkling. When finished, lift up 
one paper at a time, keeping it perfectly straight, and shake off the loose 
sugar, being particular that the biscuits do not detach from the paper. 
Now lay them in a pastry baking-pan, and let rest for two minutes ; put 
them into a slow oven, and bake for twenty minutes, until of a light golden 
color. Remove, lift them from the pan, and lay on a table to cool off. 
Have ready a dessert-dish with a folded napkin, then detaching the bis- 
cuits gently from the paper with the hands, dress them neatly or the 
dish, and send to the table. 

1232. Biscuit a la Richelieu. Put half a pound of sugar, half a pound 
of peeled and pounded almonds as for No. 1207, and four egg yolks into 
a bowl, and with a spatula mix well together for two minutes. Place the 
whites of eight eggs in a copper basin, with half a saltspoonful of salt, 
and with a wire whip beat them to a stiff froth ; add this to the above 
preparation, with three ounces of melted butter, three ounces of flour, and 
a teaspoonful of vanilla flavoring. Mix slowly together for three min- 
utes. Butter a plain mold holding three quarts ; line the interior thor- 
oughly, and pour in the preparation ; place it in a moderate oven for an 
hour and a half, then remove, and let it cool, and unmold. Dress on a 
dessert-dish with a folded napkin, and serve. 

1233. Biscuit a la Livornaise. Prepare the paste exactly as for the 
above (No. 1232), and when ready have a square tin pan, lined all through 
with paper. Spread the paste over an inch thick with a knife, and put it 
in a moderate oven for eighteen minutes. Take it out, and when cool 
lay the cake on a table ; detach the paper, sprinkle the surface freely 
with powdered sugar, and cut it into any shaped pieces desired. Dress 
on a dessert-dish with a folded napkin, and serve. 

1234. Petits Biscuits Ambrosiennes. Proceed the same as for biscuits 
a la cuillere (No. 1231). After the paste has been placed in the bag, have 
a well-cleaned pastry baking-pan, well buttered and lightly sprinkled with 
flour. Drop the paste carefully into the pan, forming biscuits, each 
about two inches long, by one inch wide. There should be in all about 
forty biscuits. Place them in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Re- 
move, and lay them on a table. With a hair-brush spread over them six 
ounces of apricot marmalade (No. 1335), and glaze them with a glace a 
1'eau (No. 1197), flavored with half a gill of white cura9oa. Sprinkle 
over them four ounces of finely chopped pistaches; shake the pan lightly, 
and they will adhere to the glace. Set for two minutes in the oven to get 
dry ; remove, and when cool, dress neatly in a glass bowl, and serve. 

1235. Almond Biscuits. Take two ounces of sweet almonds and half 
an ounce of bitter, peel, and pound them as for No. 1207. Then put them 
in a vessel with eight ounces of powdered sugar. Add the yolks of five 



356 THE TABLE. 



eggs, and beat the preparation thoroughly for five minutes; then 
separately beat the whites to a froth with a pastry wire whip, and mix in 
with the yolks and sugar, adding also one ounce of flour. Stir thoroughly 
with a wooden spatula until perfectly firm, which will require about five 
minutes. It is now ready. Have six paper boxes, any shape desired, 
and fill them with the preparation, using a tablespoon for the purpose. 
Sprinkle the tops with a little finely powdered sugar, arrange them in a 
pastry baking-pan, and put in a slow oven for fifteen minutes ; they must 
get a good golden color. Remove, and when cooled off, dress nicely on a 
dish, and serve. 

1236. ChailSSOn Cakes. Roll half a pound of feuilletage paste (No. 
1076) into a piece eighteen inches long by three wide, and pare off the 
edges lightly. Cut out six square pieces, all the same size, and with a 
pastry-brush moisten the surfaces with beaten egg. Fold up each piece 
by laying one' corner over the other, so they will have a triangular shape. 
Put them on a baking-sheet in the oven for twenty minutes; remove them 
to the oven door ; dredge plenty of powdered sugar over, put them back, 
and close the door for one minute and a half, to allow the sugar to melt 
thoroughly. Remove from the oven, and cool for twenty minutes. The 
cakes will have risen about two inches in front. Then, with the thickest 
part of a larding-needle, make a hollow in front of each cake. Put three 
ounces of currant jelly (No. 1326) into a paper cornet, and with it fill the 
insides of the cakes. Dress them on a dessert-dish with a folded napkin, 
and serve. 

1237. Petites Bouche*es des Dames. Put into a pastry-bag (No. 1079) 
half the quantity of biscuits-a-la-cuillere preparation (No. 1231). Butter 
and flour a baking-sheet, and form about fifty small, round biscuits the 
exact shape of macaroons. Sprinkle slightly with powdered sugar, and 
place in a brisk oven to bake for twelve minutes. Remove, and set to 
cool for fifteen minutes. Then lift them from the pan, and lay them up- 
side down on a table. With a knife make a small cavity in the centre of 
each, half an inch in diameter, and fill these with a pastry cream (No. 
1242). Fasten them, two by two, to enclose the cream; they will then be 
ball-shaped. Dip carefully one after the other into a glace preparation 
as for chocolate eclairs (No. 1243). Lay them on a pastry-grate to 
dry for fifteen minutes; then dress on a dessert-dish with a folded napkin, 
and send to the table. 

1238. Petites Bouche'es a. la Mrs. Astor. Butter and flour a baking- 
sheet. Put into a pastry-bag (No. 1079) half the quantity of the biscuits- 
-la-cuillere preparation (No. 1231), and drop it on the baking-sheet into 
Lima- bean-shaped pieces, one and a half inches long by half an inch wide. 
Sprinkle them lightly with powdered sugar, and place them in a brisk 
oven to bake for twelve minutes. Take them out and let them cool for 
fifteen minutes, then put them on a table upside down, and in the 
middle of each one cut a hole one inch long by a quarter of an inch wide. 
Fill the holes with apricot marmalade (No. 1335), then unite them, two by 
two, so as to enclose the marmalade and be the perfect shape of Lima 



DESSER TS. 357 



beans. Glaze them neatly by dipping them separately into a glace prep- 
aration as for eclairs a la vanille (No. 1245), and lay them at once on 
a pastry-grate to dry for fifteen minutes. Dress them on a dessert- 
dish with a folded napkin, and serve. The remainder of the paste may 
be used the following day. 

1239. Fancy Almond Cakes. Peel and pound half a pound of 
almonds as for No. 1207; then add two egg whites; when thoroughly 
pounded, put them into a vessel with ten ounces of powdered sugar, and 
the grated rind of a good lemon; then, with the hand, knead well together 
for twenty minutes. Slide a fancy tube (No. 3) into a pastry-bag (No. 
1079), and pour in the above preparation. Cover a baking-sheet with 
brown paper, and holding the top of the bag with the right hand, guide 
the bottom with the left, and press the paste through onto the paper in 
small round bits one inch wide and half an inch high. Make ten of these, 
being careful to keep them one inch apart. Make ten more, shaped like 
the letter S, using the same quantity as for the others; then ten more, 
crescent-shaped, or like the letter C; and with the remainder of the paste 
make ten more, heart-shaped, being careful to keep them from touching 
one another. Take five candied cherries, cut them in halves, and arrange 
them on top of the round cakes; have twenty dried currants (No. 1080), 
and place one on each end of the S. Cut a candied apricot in two, and each 
half into five slices, and lay them on top of the crescents, and lastly have 
one ounce of candied angelica cut into very thin strips, and arrange them 
nicely on the heart-shaped pieces. 

It would be advisable to prepare these cakes the evening before they 
are needed, and lay them aside in a warm place over night. The next 
morning, glaze them lightly with beaten egg, using a pastry-brush, and 
place them in a brisk oven to bake for ten minutes. When of a nice brown 
color, remove, and let them become thoroughly cold. Lift them up care- 
fully with the paper, laying them gently upside down on a table, and 
with a wet towel moisten the paper, so that the cakes will detach easily. 
Turn the paper over immediately as it stood before, let rest for two min- 
utes; then remove the cakes. Lay them on a pastry-grate upside down, 
to allow them to dry for thirty minutes. Dress them on a glass stand 
with a folded napkin, and send to the table. 

1240. Pate-h-Chou. Put into a saucepan two gills of cold milk and 
r.wo ounces of butter. Place it on the range, stir slightly with the spatula, 
and when boiling, immediately add a quarter of a pound of well-sifted flour ; 
stir briskly for two minutes. Then stand the pan on a table. Break in one 
egg; mix sharply for two minutes, break in a second egg, mix sharply again; 
and repeat with a third and a fourth egg; then the pate-a-chou is ready. 

1241. Eclairs. Arrange in a pastry-bag (No. 1079), a tube (No. 3); put 
into it the above quantity of pate-a-chou (No. 1240), and press out upon a 
baking-sheet fifteen eclairs, each one three inches long. Bake them in a 
hot oven for twenty minutes. Remove, and let them cool; then with a 
pair of scissors open each eclair on one side, and with a spoon fill the 
interiors with a creme patissiere (No. 1242). 



358 THE TABLE. 



1242. Creme Patissiere. Put a pint of cold milk into a saucepan, and 
place it on the stove. Mix in another vessel two ounces of powdered 
sugar, with one ounce of flour, and half an ounce of corn-starch. Break 
in two whole eggs, and beat well together with the whip for two minutes. 
When the milk is boiling, add it to the preparation, and after stirring for 
one minute longer, put it into another saucepan, and place it on the stove. 
Beat well until it comes to a boil; then remove from the fire, and add 
immediately a teaspoonful of vanilla essence. Mix thoroughly again for 
one minute longer; then pour it into a bowl, and let it get cold. 

1243. How to Glaze Eclairs with Chocolate. Put in a saucepan one 
pound and three quarters of granulated sugar and a gill of cold water. 
Place on the stove, and with a spatula mix well until Xhe sugar is thor- 
oughly melted, and when boiling remove from the stove, and pour it 
gradually on a marble slab, on which it will spread about three feet 
square. Let it cool off for ten minutes. Then cut two ounces of cocoa 
into small pieces; put them on a plate, and leave them at the oven door to 
melt. With a spatula begin working the sugar that is on the marble as 
rapidly as possible in every direction until it begins to whiten; then add 
the melted cocoa, mixing it thoroughly again until it becomes hard; 
remove the spatula, and detach the preparation quickly from the marble 
with a knife. Put it into a vessel, and covering it with a damp cloth, let 
it rest for thirty minutes. Then place half of it in a saucepan on the hot 
stove, and with the spatula mix thoroughly and slowly until it is luke- 
warm, meanwhile adding a teaspoonful of cold water. Take the 6clairs, 
one by one, and with the hand dip them into this preparation. Lay them 
on a pastry - grate ; let them cool off for five minutes ; dress on a 
dessert-dish with a folded napkin, and serve. 

Keep the rest of the preparation for further use. When laid aside in 
a cool place, and properly taken care of, it will be as good in two weeks' 
time as when freshly made. 

1244. Eclairs au Cafe. Have a pate-a-chou ready, as for No. 1240; 
then proceed to make the eclairs. Bake, and fill them with a creme patis- 
siere (No. 1242) exactly as for the chocolate eclairs; glazing them the same 
as for No. 1243, only instead of cocoa use half a gill of coffee essence 
(No. 1263). Serve precisely the same. 

1245. Eclairs a la Yanille. Prepare a pate-a-chou as for No. 1240. 
Make the eclairs, bake, and fill them with a creme patissiere, as No. 1242. 
Glaze them as for No. 1243, only substituting two teaspoonfuls of vanilla 
essence for the cocoa, and serving them the same. 

1246. ChoilX a la Creme. Prepare a pate-a-chou as for No. 1240, and 
put it into the bag. Press it down onto a baking-sheet into six round, equal 
cakes, about two inches high. Glaze the surface of each with beaten egg. 
Bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Watch them carefully, and 
when they are of a good golden color, remove from the oven and let cool 
for half an hour. Make an incision on one side, about half-way in the 
cakes, using a pair of scissors. Fill the insides with creme patissiere 
(No. 1242), and close them again. Dredge well with powdered sugar, 



DESSERTS. 359 



and dress on a dessert-dish, with a folded napkin, before sending to the 
table. 

1247. Meringues. Put six egg whites into a copper basin, with a 
light half saltspoonful of salt, and with a wire whip begin beating slowly, 
but gradually increase until a stiff froth is obtained. Should it become 
grainy, beat briskly again, adding half an ounce of powdered sugar. 
(Eight minutes should suffice to have a proper froth.) Remove the whip. 
Have on a plate one pound of powdered sugar, and with a spatula drop 
the sugar slowly and carefully over the froth, mixing, it in meanwhile 
with the spatula. This should take about two minutes. Flavor it with 
any desired flavoring, and it will be ready for use. 

1248. Apples^ Meringuees. Have six fine apples cooked as for No. 
1169; dress them on a dessert-dish, filling the cavities with currant jelly 
(No. 1326); then decorate all round and the tops with meringue, prepared 
as for No. 1247, half the quantity being sufficient. Sprinkle them moder- 
ately with powdered sugar; lay the dish on a baking-pan, and put it in the 
oven for five minutes. When a light brown color, remove, and serve 
either hot or cold. 

1249. Small Fancy Meringues a la Ch. C. Delmonico. Put into a 
sugar-pan one pound of granulated sugar with half a pint of cold water, 
and place on the hot stove. Have two quarts of ice-water in a vessel, 
and when the sugar comes to a boil, dip the fingers of the right hand into 
the ice-water and pass them quickly around the inside of the pan, and let 
boil for five minutes. Dip a wooden stick, similar to a pen-holder, in the 
ice-water, then quickly into the boiling sugar, and again in the ice-water, 
lifting up the stick to feel the sugar that adheres. Should it not be suffi- 
ciently consistent to form into a ball, let boil a little longer; then try once 
more; and should it be a proper thickness, remove from the fire and set 
it on the corner of the stove, so that it no longer boils. While the sugar 
is cooking, beat the whites of five eggs in a copper basin until they are a 
firm froth; and while beating, have an assistant pour very gradually the 
prepared sugar into the egg-froth; and when all is added, lay the* basin 
containing the preparation into a vessel half filled with ice- water. Remove 
the whip, and using a wooden spatula, mix gently for five minutes, add- 
ing a teaspoonful of vanilla flavoring. Cover the basin with a napkin, 
letting it rest for ten minutes. Butter and flour a baking-sheet; slide 
down a fancy tube (No. 3) into a pastry-bag (No. 1079), fill it with the 
preparation, press down onto the baking-sheet, giving a C-shape, two 
inches long by one wide, to forty of them; and then forming twenty more, 
shaped like the letter D. Sprinkle them lightly with powdered sugar; 
place in a very slow oven, and let bake for fifteen minutes. When baked, 
these cakes should be perfectly white. Remove them from the oven, let 
get thoroughly cold; dress on a glass stand, and send to the table. 

1250. Meringue-shells. Prepare a meringue as for No. 1247. Slide a 
tube (No. 4) down a pastry-bag (No. 1079); lay a piece of paper over a bak- 
ing-sheet, and after putting the meringue into the bag, press it out onto 
the paper, giving it an egg-shape, two and a half inches long by one inch 



360 THE TABLE. 



high. There will be enough to make eighteen equal-sized shells. Be 
careful to keep them one inch apart. Sprinkle over liberally with pow- 
dered sugar, and place in a very slow oven to bake thirty minutes. Re- 
move, and set to cool for twenty-five minutes. Then turn the paper con., 
taining the shells upside down on the table; and with a wet cloth or 
brush moisten well the paper; turn them over again, and let rest for two 
minutes, when the shells will detach easily. With the finger press them 
gently, one by one, in the bottom, into a perfect shell-shape. Return 
them to the baking-sheet, laying them upside down, and put them in the 
oven to dry thoroughly for ten minutes; then leave them to cool for thirty 
minutes more. Keep them in a dry place, either in a tin or paper box, 
and use when required. Meringue-shells prepared this way will keep 
nicely for at least twenty-five days. 

1251. Swiss Meringues k PHelve"tieime. Have a meringue prepara- 
tion as for No. 1247; slide down in a pastry-bag (No. 1079) a tube (No. 4). 
Butter and flour a baking-sheet ; make on it one design eight inches in 
diameter ; another exactly the same shape, only six inches, and another of 
the same, only four inches. Put the meringue into the bag, and press it 
down gently over and around the first design, making the paste three- 
quarters of an inch thick ; repeat the same for the second and third forms. 
Press down in the pan some more meringue, making a little cone four 
inches high, two inches in diameter at the base, and tapering gradually to 
a point at the top. Sprinkle the whole lightly with powdered sugar, and 
place the pan in a very moderate oven to bake for twenty-five minutes. 
Take it out, and let it thoroughly cool for half an hour. Have a quart of 
whipped creme & la vanille (No. 1254), add to it half a gill of Swiss kirsch 
and half a gill of maraschino, and with a pastry-whip beat the whole 
together for three minutes. Have ready a round dessert-dish with a 
fancy paper over, detach carefully the largest form from the pan, lay it 
on the dish, detach the second, lay it over the first, and fill the hollow 
space with half of the cream ; now detach the third and smallest piece and 
lay it over the others, filling it entirely with part of the cream, and finally 
detach the cover, and arrange it nicely on the top. Pour the remaining 
cream into the pastry-bag containing the fancy tube, and with it decorate 
the places where the rings are joined. Then send to the table. 

1252. Creme Benversee. Put in a copper sugar-pan three ounces of 
granulated sugar with half a gill of cold water. Toss the pan briskly to 
melt the sugar well; then place it on the stove, and let it boil slowly until it 
becomes a light brown color. If a moderate fire, it will require four min- 
utes, but if a brisk one only two will suffice ; this will now be a caramel. 
Take a pudding-mold holding one quart ; line the interior with all the 
caramel, holding the mold in the left hand, and spreading it evenly all 
round. Put the mold in a cool place, and let it become thoroughly cold. 
Have one pint of milk in a bowl ; break in four eggs, add a quarter of a 
pound of powdered sugar and a teaspoonful of lemon essence. Beat well 
for five minutes ; strain through a sieve into another bowl, and fill the 
mold with this cream. Place it in a tin pan filled with water to half the 



361 



height of the mold, and place in a very moderate oven for forty-five min- 
utes. When of a good golden color remove, and cool for at least two 
hours. Turn it on a dessert-dish, and serve with its own juice. 

1253. Creine en Mousse au Cafe. Take a pint of whipped cream as 
for No. 1254, add three tablespoonfuls of coffee essence (No. 1263), and 
beat well together for five minutes. Transfer it to a china bowl, and put 
it in a cold ice-box. When ready to serve, use a spoon to drop the cream 
carefully upon the centre of a cold, round dessert-dish, keeping it as high 
as possible, shaping it into a pretty, artistic dome. Send immediately to 
the table. 

1254. "Whipped Cream & la Yanille. Put a pint of sweet cream into a 
basin. Have a tub or large dish-pan containing chopped ice and a little 
\vater, and lay the basin on top. With a soft wire egg-whip beat the 
cream slowly at first, and increase in swiftness until it is a firm froth. 
Sweeten with two ounces of powdered sugar, and add a teaspoonful of 
vanilla flavoring, beating constantly. Let it rest, and use when needed. 
Remove all the superfluous milk which may be found with the cream, 
before using it. 

1255. Creme en Mousse au Rhuiu. With a pint of fresh, sweet cream 
proceed as for No. 1254, adding a gill of rum, and beating well together 
for five minutes. Transfer it into a china bowl, and place in the ice-box 
until ready to use. When serving, have a cold dessert-dish, and with a 
wooden spoon drop the cream carefully into the centre of the dish, keep- 
ing it piled high as possible so to give it a pretty dome form, and send to 
the table immediately. 

1256. Creme en Mousse an Kirsch. Proceed as for No. 1255, only 
substituting a gill of kirsch for the gill of rum ; serve in the same 
manner. 

1257. Creme en Mousse au Maraschino. Prepared the same as creme 
en mousse au rhum (No. 1255), substituting a gill of maraschino for the 
rum. 

1258. Creme en Mousse au Cognac. The same as for No. 1255, add- 
ing a gill of cognac instead of the rum, but serving the same way. 

1250. Creme en Mousse au Cura^oa. Substituting a gill of cura9oa 
for a gill of rum, and proceeding precisely the same as for No. 1255. 

1260. Creme en Mousse. To be prepared exactly the same, Only 
using a gill of any other liquor desired, and serving the same as No. 1255. 

1261. Charlotte Russe a la Creme. Take six small, round charlotte 
russe molds two and a half inches high, three inches in diameter at the 
top by two at the bottom. When thoroughly cleaned, line them with 
biscuits a la cuillere (No. 1231), cut them in two, and should they be 
higher than the mold, trim them off to the edge. Pour the whipped cream 
(No. 1254) into a pastry-bag (No. 1079), and fill up the molds. Turn them 
over onto six dessert-plates, spread a little more cream on the top of each, 
and cover them each with one macaroon (No. 1210). Dress the rest of 
the cream nicely around the plates, and serve. 

1262. Charlotte Russe au Cafe. Line and prepare six small charlotte- 



362 THE TABLE. 



molds as for the above (No. 1261), adding to the whipped cream two table- 
spoonfuls of coffee essence (No. 1263). Beat thoroughly together for two 
minutes, then fill the molds, and serve as for the above. 

1263. Coffee Essence. Take one ounce of good, ground coffee; place 
it in a small saucepan with half a pint of cold water, and let boil until 
reduced to about two tablespoonfuls. Then strain through a cloth, press- 
ing it well, and let cool thoroughly. Add it to the cream as described in 
No. 1262. 

1264. How to Cook Sugar. Put into a sugar -pan one pound of 
granulated sugar, with half a pint of cold water; place it on a brisk stove. 
Have a vessel containing two quarts of ice-water, and when the sugar 
comes to a boil dip the fingers of the right hand into the water, and quickly 
pass them all around the inside of the pan, being careful to avoid touching 
the sugar; repeat this two or three times. However difficult this opera- 
tion may appear, it is essential that it should be done, in order to have 
the sugar in a perfect condition. Take care to dip the fingers into the ice- 
water each time. Let the sugar boil; then squeeze in three drops of 
lemon juice. To know when it is sufficiently boiled, have a thin piece of 
wood the shape of a larding-needle. Dip the point into the ice-water, and 
then plunge it into the boiling sugar; remove it quickly, and dip it imme- 
diately into the water again. Lift it out, and see whether the sugar adher- 
ing to the wood be thoroughly hard. If not, let boil again, and continue 
to test with the stick as before. To be certain that the sugar is perfectly 
done, place the point of the stick between the teeth, and bite it. Should 
the sugar stick to the teeth, it needs more boiling, but if it cracks easily 
without sticking, it is thoroughly done. Rem.ove it immediately from the 
fire, and place the bottom of the pan in the ice-water to prevent the sugar 
from turning brown. 

The above cooked sugar can be used for glazing dried fruits and candied 
fruits of all kinds; also to fasten on pieces of of nougat, and to make any 
kind of caramels, etc., etc. 

1265. Burned Sugar. Put into a small iron omelet-pan half a pound 
of granulated sugar, and place on a slow stove, to burn thoroughly for 
thirty minutes. Remove the pan to the table to cool slightly for five 
minutes, and then add half a pint of boiling water, mixing well with an 
iron spoon. Replace the pan on the stove, and boil for five minutes, stir- 
ring continually ; then strain the sugar through a sieve into a vessel, and 
put in a cold place to cool thoroughly. Pour it into a bottle, and use 
when required. Burned sugar prepared this way will keep in perfect 
condition for several weeks. 

1266. Nougat. Have ready four ounces of peeled and dried almond 
(No. 1207). Cut each into four slices, and lay them in a tin pan with a 
sheet of paper under them. Put the pan in a warm place, but not on the 
stove. Take a copper sugar-pan, or dropper, put into it six ounces of 
powdered sugar, and place it on a hot stove ; then with a dry, wooden 
spatula stir continually, until the sugar is dissolved, being careful to avoid 
browning it, Remove from the fire, add one drop of lemon juice, and let 



363 



it cool aff slightly for three minutes, stirring constantly ; then add the 
almonds, mixing all gently with the spatula for two minutes. The nougat 
is now ready for use, and can be molded into cornets-d'abondance, columns, 
bases, or any shape the fancy may dictate. 

1267. Small Pyramid of Nougat. Oil slightly the interior of a 
small, round base. Take half the nougat, prepared as for No. 1266, 
lay it on a marble table (the nougat should always be hot), roll it out very 
thin with an oiled roller, and with this line the oiled base. Then with a 
whole lemon sharply press the nougat onto the mold to give it a perfect 
form, cutting it evenly away all around the edge. Put the pieces with 
the rest in the pan, and place near the fire to keep hot. Have a small 
cornet-d'abondance (cornucopia), oil it slightly, and line the inside with half 
the remaining nougat, rolled out as before, and pressing it the same. Cut 
away all the superfluous part, and let it cool slightly. Then unmold both 
the base and cornet. Oil a tartlet-mold, and line it with the rest of the 
nougat. Lay the base carefully upon a glass stand of suitable size, the 
covered part uppermost, and fasten to the stand with cooked sugar (No. 
1264). With cooked sugar fasten the cornet in the middle, small end 
uppermost, using cooked sugar for the purpose. Put the remaining 
piece from the tartlet-mold on top of all, and fasten it in the same way. 
All this should be done carefully and patiently. Have ready two well- 
peeled, sound oranges, pull them gently to pieces, looking closely at each 
separate section to see that the skin is not broken or loosened. Have a 
quarter of a pound of fresh Malaga grapes, detach them, leaving on each 
grape about a quarter of an inch of stem. Take also two ounces of candied 
cherries, plunge the grapes into the cooked sugar (No. 1264), and with a 
fork lift them up, and immediately lay them on a well-cleaned, oiled, 
marble table. Treat the pieces of orange and the cherries each the same 
way. During this time, should the sugar become cool, heat it up once 
more ; fill the cornet with these fruits, dipping one side of each piece into 
the cooked sugar to make them adhere together. With a part of them fill 
the tart-shaped piece on top, proceeding in the same manner, and decorate 
with glace royale (No. 1269). 

1269. Grlace Royale. Put the white of one egg into a small bowl. 
Beat it well with a small spatula, adding six ounces of extra fine sugar, 
and squeezing in three drops of lemon juice. Then continue beating for 
twenty minutes. When finished, it should be snow-white and pulpy. 
Make a small brown paper cornet, cut off the lower end, slide down a 
small fancy tube, and pour in some of the glace royale, covering the 
remainder of it with a damp cloth. Then with the cornet decorate the 
edge of the nougat base as in the preceding (No. 1268), also the upper 
edge, and all around the edge of the cornet, and finish by decorating 
artistically the tart-shaped piece on top; then send it to the table. 

All nougat pieces, when finished, should be kept in a moderate 
temperature. 

1270. Blanc-manger k la Josephine Delmonico. Peel neatly six 
ounces of sweet almonds and two ounces of bitter almonds (No. 1207). 



364 THE TABLE. 



Put in a vessel, cover with cold water, and let them soak for fully one 
hour. Drain thoroughly through a sieve, and pound them well in a 
mortar, adding, little by little, a gill of cold water, and continue pounding 
for ten minutes. Now remove to a vessel and add two gills of lukewarm 
water, and mix together with the spatula for two minutes. Spread a 
large napkin over another vessel, pour on the above preparation, lift up 
the four corners, and holding it with the left hand, squeeze the liquid 
through with the right. Lay this almond milk aside for further use. Put 
into a saucepan two gills of cold water, half an ounce of gelatine, a piece 
of vanilla-bean two inches long and split in two, and four ounces of 
powdered sugar. Mix well with the spatula for two minutes; remove the 
spatula, put on the lid, and let infuse for thirty minutes. Then place the 
saucepan on the hot stove, and stir gently from the bottom, allowing it to 
boil slowly for four minutes. Remove it from the fire, and let the pan 
rest on the table for three minutes. Pour in the almond milk, mix again 
for two minutes, using the spatula, and strain the whole through a fine 
sieve into another vessel. Have a three-pint, channeled blanc-manger 
mold; put some broken ice at the bottom of a pail, place the mold on it, 
arranging more broken ice around the sides, so that the mold be entirely 
sunk in the ice as far up as the edge. Stir the preparation for one minute, 
then pour it into the mold, cover the pail with a napkin, and leave it to 
congeal for one hour. Take up the mold carefully from the pail, wipe off 
the ice with a towel, and have ready a cold dessert-dish with a folded nap- 
kin over. Turn out the blanc-manger onto this; decorate the surface with 
two ounces of candied cherries and one ounce of angelica, and it is ready 
for the table. 

1271. Vanilla Ice-cream. Boil in a saucepan one pint of milk with 
half a vanilla-bean; put in a vessel half a pound of powdered sugar, and 
six egg yolks, and with a spatula mix thoroughly for ten minutes; then 
add it to the boiling milk, stirring for two minutes longer, and pour the 
whole into a copper basin, placing it on a moderate stove to heat for five 
minutes, stirring at the bottom continually with the spatula, and being 
careful not to let it boil. Remove from off the fire, place it on a table, and 
add immediately one pint of sweet cream, still mixing it for two minutes 
more; let cool off for thirty minutes, then strain through a sieve into an 
ice-cream freezer; put on the lid, and lay it in an ice-cream tub, filling the 
freezer all round with broken ice, mixed slightly with rock-salt; then turn 
the handle on the cover as briskly as possible for three minutes. Lift up 
the lid, and with a wooden spoon detach the cream from all around the 
freezer, and the bottom as well. Re-cover it, and turn the handle sharply 
for three minutes more; uncover, and detach the cream the'same as before, 
being careful that no ice or salt drops in. Put the lid on, and repeat the 
same three times more. The ice-cream should by this time be quite firm, 
so have a cold dessert-dish with a folded napkin, dress the ice-cream over, 
and send to the table. 

This same ice-cream can be formed into a single brick by having a 
brick-shaped form, filling it with the cream, and pressing it down quickly 



DESSERTS. 365 



with a spoon; cover closely, being careful that the form is completely 
filled, so that no salted water can penetrate into it. Put broken ice at the 
bottom of a pail, mixing in a little rock-salt, lay the form on top, covering 
it entirely with broken ice and salt; let freeze for one hour, remove, and 
bathe it in a vessel containing lukewarm water; wash off the ice and salt 
that adhere, and lift it out as quickly as possible; remove the cover, and 
turn it on a dessert-dish with a folded napkin, lift up the mold, and send 
the ice-cream to the table. 

1272. Chocolate Ice-cream. Prepare and cook exactly the same as 
for vanilla ice-cream (No. 1271); put in a saucepan two ounces of well- 
chopped cocoa and an ounce of powdered sugar, add to it half the cream 
preparation ; place the pan on the stove, and with a pastry-whip stir 
briskly, and let boil for three minutes ; take it from the fire, add it to the 
remaining half of cream, then mix the whole well together for two min- 
utes. Strain through a fine sieve into an ice-cream freezer, let cool for 
thirty minutes, then proceed to freeze it exactly the same as for the 
vanilla ice-cream, and serve it also the same. 

1273. Coffee Ice-cream. Put in a vessel half a pound of powdered 
sugar and six egg yolks ; mix well with the spatula for ten minutes, then 
add one pint of boiling milk, stir for two minutes longer, and pour the 
whole into a copper basin; place it on the hot stove, and with the spatula 
stir gently at the bottom until well heated, but it must not boil. Take 
from off the fire, set it on a table, then immediately add a pint of sweet 
cream, mixing again for two minutes, and throw in two ounces of freshly 
ground Mocha coffee, stirring for two minutes longer ; return the basin 
to the stove, beat it up again with the pastry-whip, and lay it on the table 
once more. Cover with a napkin, so that the coffee can infuse thoroughly 
for- half an hour, then strain through a fine sieve into the freezer, and 
proceed freezing, and serving exactly the same as for vanilla ice-cream 
(No. 1271). 

1274. Strawberry Ice-cream. Prepare and proceed exactly the same 
as for the coffee ice-cream (No. 1273), suppressing the coffee, and when 
the cream is cooked and cool, add half a pint of well picked and cleaned 
strawberries. Mix well with the spatula for two minutes, then strain 
through a fine sieve into the freezer, pressing the strawberries through 
with a wooden spoon ; remove the sieve, cover the freezer, and proceed 
to freeze, and serve precisely the same as for vanilla ice-cream (No. 
1271). 

1275. Pistache Ice-cream. Have two ounces of fine, dried pistaches, 
using only the best quality ; put them into a pie-plate, place it in the 
oven to let the nuts get a light brown color, which will take about six 
minutes ; remove from the oven, lay the pistaches in a mortar with one 
ounce of granulated sugar, and pound slightly. Have a cream prepara- 
tion exactly the same as for coffee ice-cream (No. 1273), suppressing the 
coffee. When cooked, add the pint of sweet cream and the pistache, then 
place it on the stove and heat well, stirring continually. Remove from 
the fire, cover the basin with a napkin, and let get thoroughly cool for 



366 THE TABLE. 



thirty minutes. Add three drops of orange-flower water and five drops 
of spinach-green, mix the whole well for two minutes, then strain through 
a fine sieve into the freezer, and proceed to freeze and serve exactly the 
same as for vanilla ice-cream (No. 1271). 

1276. Peach Ice-cream. Put in a vessel half a pound of powdered 
sugar with six egg yolks, then mix well with the spatula for ten minutes ; 
add a pint of boiling milk, stir for two minutes longer, and pour the whole 
into a copper basin. Place it on a hot stove, and heat it thoroughly, stir- 
ring continually, but not letting it boil ; remove, lay it on the table, and 
mix in immediately one pint of sweet cream; then leave it to cool for 
thirty minutes. Have six ripe, fine, sound peaches, wipe them nicely > 
cut them in two, remove the stones, then mash them into the cream, mix- 
ing thoroughly for three minutes ; strain through a fine sieve into a 
freezer, pressing the peaches through with a wooden spoon, then proceed 
to freeze, and serve precisely the same as for the vanilla ice-cream (No. 
1271). 

1277. Banana Ice-cream. Prepare and proceed exactly the same as 
for the peach ice-cream (No. 1276), using four peeled, sound, and ripe 
bananas instead of the peaches, and finishing exactly the same as for the 
other. 

1278. Lemon Ice-cream. Put half a pound of powdered sugar into 
a basin ; grate in the rind of two fine lemons, add four egg whites, and 
mix well with a wire whip for two minutes, then add a pint of cold milk, 
stirring again for one minute. Place the basin on the hot stove, stir 
briskly with the whip, and take it off when coming to a boil, lay it on the 
table, and pour in a pint of sweet cream, mixing well for two minutes. 
Let it get cool during half an hour, then strain through a fine sieve into a 
freezer, and finish precisely the same as for vanilla ice-cream (No. 1271). 

1279. Lemon Water-ice. Put in a vessel half a pound of powdered 
sugar, with one quart of cold water ; grate in the rind of a large lemon, 
or of two small ones, squeezing in the juice of three good-sized ones, or 
of four if small, and with the spatula beat well together for five minutes. 
Have a syrup-weigher, place it in the centre of the preparation, and if it 
be twenty-one degrees it is correct, if not, add a little more powdered 
sugar ; remove the weigher, mix a little more, and then strain through a 
sieve into the freezer, putting on the cover, and proceed to freeze it pre- 
cisely the same as for vanilla ice-cream (No. 1271), serving it the same. 

1280. Orange Water-ice. Put into a vessel one quart of cold water, 
half a pound of powdered sugar, and grate in the rind of two fine, ripe, 
medium-sized, red oranges, adding their juice besides, the juice of three 
medium-sized, sound lemons, then finish the same as for lemon water-ice 
(No. 1279). 

1281. Raspberry Water-ice. Place in a vessel half a pound of pow- 
dered sugar, squeeze in the juice of three sound lemons, add a pint of 
nicely picked and cleaned raspberries, then with the spatula beat briskly 
for five minutes ; add a quart of cold water, mixing again for one minute, 
and proceed to finish and serve the same as for lemon water-ice (No. 1279). 



DESSERTS. 367 

1282. Cherry Water-ice. Procure one pound of sound, solid, sour 
cherries ; put them in a vessel, after picking off the stems nicely, with 
half a pound of powdered sugar, and squeeze in the juice of three fine 
lemons. Mix well with the spatula for five minutes, then add a quart of 
cold water, stirring the mixture for two minutes longer, and strain through 
a fine sieve into the ice-cream freezer, pressing the cherries down with a 
wooden spoon. Proceed to freeze, and serve exactly the same as for the 
vanilla ice-cream (No. 1271). 

1283. Pineapple Water-ice. Cut a small-sized, ripe pineapple in 
two ; put one half away for further use, paring and peeling the other 
half neatly, then cut it into small pieces ; place them in a mortar, and 
pound them thoroughly to a pulp; ten minutes will suffice for this. Add 
half a pound of powdered sugar, and pound again for five minutes ; trans- 
fer the whole into a vessel, squeeze in the juice of three sound lemons, 
then pour in a quart of cold water, and mix well with the spatula for two 
minutes. Strain through a fine sieve into the freezer, adding two egg 
whites, beaten to a stiff froth, then beat well for one minute more. Cover 
with the lid, and finish it the same as the vanilla ice-cream (No. 1271). 

1284. Peach Water-ice. Procure eight medium -sized, fine, ripe 
peaches ; wipe them neatly, cut in two, remove the stones, then mash 
them in a vessel with half a pound of powdered sugar ; squeeze in the 
juice of three fine lemons, mix well with the spatula for two minutes, and 
pour in a quart of cold water, mixing for two minutes more. Strain 
through a fine sieve into the freezer, cover, and proceed to freeze the 
cream as for vanilla ice-cream (No. 1271), serving it the same. 

1285. Apricot Water-ice. Have twelve good-sized, fine, sound apri- 
cots; wipe them neatly, cut them in two, remove the stones, and put 
them in a vessel with half a pound of powdered sugar, mashing them 
thoroughly. Have two ounces of bitter almonds, peel, and pound with- 
out drying 'them ; add one gill of cold water and one ounce of pow- 
dered sugar, pounding the whole together. Arrange a napkin over 
the vessel containing the apricot preparation; pour over it the contents 
of the mortar, pressing the juice through the napkin into the vessel, and 
mix well together for two minutes with the spatula. Squeeze in the juice 
of three sound lemons; add a pint and a half of cold water, mix again for 
two minutes, then strain through a fine sieve into the freezer. Put on 
the cover, and proceed to finish exactly the same as for the vanilla ice- 
cream (No. 1271). 

1286. Biscuits GlaceS. Put six egg yolks in a copper basin, with two 
ounces of powdered sugar, half a gill of maraschino, and a quarter of a 
gill of Swiss kirsch. Then with a pastry-whip beat well together for two 
minutes. Place the basin on a hot stove, and stir briskly with the whip 
for five minutes. Remove it from the fire, and immediately put the 
basin into a vessel containing ice-water, and stir continually for two min- 
utes more. Add a pint and a half of whipped cream a la vanille (No. 1254), 
and mix well with the rest for three minutes. Then cover the basin with 
a napkin, and let repose for ten minutes. Have six paper cases, four 



368 THE TABLE. 



inches long, two inches wide, and one and a half inches high, and fill 
equally with the above preparation. Have ready a square biscuit-glace 
box, ten inches high by six inches square, and having inside a loose, two- 
tier frame. Place this box in an ice-cream tub, filling it with broken ice 
mixed with rock-salt. Wipe the cover neatly, and after lifting it up, 
remove the frame and place three biscuits on each tier; return the frame 
to the box, put the cover on, and let freeze for one and a half hours. Have 
a cold dessert-dish covered with a folded napkin; uncover the box, lift up 
the frame, and dress the biscuits nicely on the dish, sending them to the 
table at once. 

1287. Biscuits Tortoili. Prepare and proceed exactly the same as for 
biscuits glaces (No. 1286), only placing the preparation into six round, 
fancy paper cases, instead of square ones. When filled, sift evenly over 
the surfaces two ounces of finely powdered macaroons (No. 1210); lay 
them on the tiers of the frame, and freeze them, serving them precisely 
as the biscuits glaces. 

1288. Iced Pudding a la Diplomatc. Have a biscuit-glac prepara- 
tion exactly the same as for No. 1286; cut ten biscuits a la cuillere (No. 
1231) into dice-shaped pieces, and add them to the preparation. Then, 
with a wooden spoon, mix lightly for two minutes. With this fill a three- 
pint, melon-shaped form, and place the cover on. Have a pail, with broken 
ice in the bottom; lay the form on it, and fill the pail with more broken ice 
and rock-salt, and let it freeze thoroughly for two hours. Have ready a 
vessel with warm water; take out the mold from the pail, plunge it into the 
warm water, to wash away the ice and salt; then remove it immediately, 
unmold it onto a dessert-dish with a fancy paper, and serve. 

1289. Plum Pudding Glac a la Gladstone. Have ready three ounces 
of Malaga raisins, prepared as for No. 1081; place them in a stone jar 
with half a pint of good old sherry, adding three ounces of candied cher- 
ries cut into quarters, one ounce of finely chopped candied citron, and 
two ounces of candied apricots, also cut into small pieces; then with the 
spatula mix gently together for one and a half minutes. Cover the jar, 
and let infuse for fully twelve hours. Prepare a chocolate ice-cream, as 
for No. 1272, and just before removing it from the freezer add the above 
fruit preparation, mixing well with the spatula for fully two minutes. Put 
on the cover, and let freeze again for five minutes longer. Take a three- 
pint melon-form, and with a spoon fill it with the pudding preparation; 
cover it well, and put it in a pail containing broken ice and rock-salt at 
the bottom; then fill up the pail with more ice and salt, allowing it to 
freeze for fully two hours. In the meanwhile prepare the following sauce: 
put in a saucepan two egg yolks with one ounce of powdered sugar; 
place it on a slow stove, and with a pastry-whip stir briskly, adding grad- 
ually one gill of old English brandy. Heat it well, but it must not boil. 
Then take from the fire, set the pan on a table, and continue stirring for 
twelve minutes. Add a pint of well-whipped creme a la vanille (No. 1254), 
mixing the whole well together with the whip for two minutes, and pour 
the sauce into a china bowl, placing it in the ice-box. Have a vessel 



DESSERTS. 369 



ready containing warm water; lift the mold from the pail, plunge it into 
the water to remove the ice and salt adhering; then lift it up, unmold the 
pudding immediately, and place it on a dessert-dish, with a fancy paper 
cover. Beat well the sauce; transfer it to a silver sauce-bowl, and send 
it to the table with the plum pudding, serving it separately. 

1290. Macaroon Ice-cream. Take six ounces of macaroons (No. 1210); 
put them into a tin pan, and place it in a moderate oven to dry for ten 
minutes. Remove, and lay them on a table to cool off for twenty min- 
utes, then put them in a mortar, pound thoroughly, and sift them over a 
sheet of paper. Have ready a vanilla ice-cream as for No. 1271, and just 
before serving add to it the sifted macaroons, and with the spatula mix 
thoroughly for five minutes, and with this fill a three-pint brick-mold, 
covering it tightly. Have ready a pail with broken ice and rock-salt at 
the bottom, lay the mold over, and fill up the pail with more ice and salt. 
Let it freeze for two hours, and when ready to serve, have ready a vessel 
with warm water, take up the mold, bathe it in the water, and wash off 
all the salt and ice that adhere, then unmold the ice-cream onto a dessert- 
dish with a fancy paper over, and send to the table immediately. 

1291. Pudding Glace a la Frankie Cleveland. Prepare half the quan- 
tity of vanilla ice-cream as for No. 1271; when frozen, let it rest, and pre- 
pare also half the quantity of biscuit-glace preparation (No. 1286), and 
when ready cover the basin, and let rest also. Have half a pound of 
marrons glaces (candied chestnuts); break them into pieces onto a plate ; 
take a three-pint melon-form, arrange the vanilla ice-cream all around it, 
dividing it evenly, and filling up with alternate layers of the biscuit prep- 
aration and the marrons glaces ; cover the mold tightly, and place it in a 
pail with broken ice mixed with rock-salt at the bottom, also filling the 
pail with more ice and salt, then let freeze for fully two hours. Two 
minutes before serving, bathe the mold in warm water to remove the ice 
and salt that adhere, unmold, and send to the table immediately with a 
sauce-bowl full of the following sauce : add to half a pint of whipped 
cream a la vanille (No. 1254) one gill of strawberry juice, and half a gill, 
or two ounces, of yellow chartreuse ; beat well together with the whip 
for two minutes, then pour it into the sauce-bowl. 

1292. Napolitaine Ice-cream. Prepare a pint of vanilla ice-cream as 
for No. 1271; a pint of pistache ice-cream (No. 1275), and a pint of rasp- 
berry water-ice (No. 1281). Take a long brick-form holding three pints, 
put at the bottom of this the raspberry water-ice, arrange the vanilla ice- 
cream on top, and fill up with the pistache, then cover tightly. Take a 
pail with broken ice mixed with rock-salt at the bottom, lay the form 
over, and fill up the pail with more ice and salt, and let freeze for two 
hours. Plunge the form in warm water to wash off the ice and salt, and 
unmold the ice-cream onto a piece of paper laid on the table. Dip a long 
knife in warm water, cut the brick lengthwise through the centre, then 
each piece into three, so that the Napolitaine will be divided into six 
equal-sized square pieces, each one having the three kinds of cream. 
Dress on a cold dessert-dish with a fancy paper over, and serve, 

24 



37O THE TABLE. 



1293. Tutti-frutti. Prepare a pint of vanilla ice-cream as for No. 
1271, half a pint of strawberry ice-cream (No. 1274), and half a pint of 
lemon water-ice (No. 1279); let them remain in the freezers. Put four 
ounces of candied cherries onto a plate, cut them in halves, and add two 
candied apricots cut into small pieces. Take six tutti-frutti molds, open 
one of them, and lay on the cover a spoonful of strawberry ice-cream, 
with a spoonful of the lemon water-ice, one beside the other, press the 
sixth part of the candied fruits onto the ice-cream in the cover of the 
mold, filling the bottom with vanilla ice-cream, and close together firmly. 
Lay it immediately into a pail with broken ice and rock-salt at the bottom, 
cover the mold slightly with more ice and salt, then proceed to prepare 
the other five molds exactly the same. When they are all in the pail and 
covered as the first one, fill it up entirely with broken ice and salt, and let 
it freeze for one hour. Have a vessel containing warm water ready at 
hand, and prepare six small dessert-plates with a small fancy paper on 
each, lift up the molds, one after the other, wash them off quickly with 
the warm water, and unmold the tutti-fruttis onto the cold plates, and 
serve. 

1294. Plombiere a la King-man. Put together into a saucepan eight 
egg yolks, half a pound of powdered sugar, a piece of vanilla-bean one 
inch long and split in two, also a pint of sweet cream, and six ounces of 
finely grated cocoa. Mix well with the spatula for two minutes, then 
place the pan on the hot stove, and stir constantly while heating, but 
under no circumstances must it boil. Remove it from the fire, and lay 
the pan in a cool place on the table for thirty minutes. Put an ice-cream 
freezer into a tub, fill it all round with broken ice mixed with rock-salt, 
remove the cover, and after wiping the freezer well, strain the prepara- 
tion through a sieve into it, cover it again, and with the hands turn the 
handle of the cover for five minutes in opposite directions. Lift up the 
cover, and with the spatula detach the preparation that adheres to the 
sides, readjust the cover, and turn again the handle, beginning in an 
opposite direction from the first time ; after five minutes, detach from the 
sides as before, and repeat for the third time the turning process. Finally 
lift off the cover, and detach the cream from all around, and it will now 
be thoroughly firm, so cover it again, and let it rest. Beat up to a froth 
one gill of sweet cream as for No. 1254 ; take a glass or silver stand, and 
with an ice-cream spoon remove the cream from the freezer, spoonful by 
spoonful, and dress it in the centre of the bowl, keeping it as high as pos- 
sible, and giving it a pretty, pyramid shape. Fill a paper cornet with the 
whipped cream, cut off the point, and decorate artistically the top and 
sides of the plombiere. Chop up very fine two ounces of pistache, and 
sprinkle them evenly over the surface, then send to the table. 

1295. Parfait an Cafe a la Parisienne. Place sixounces of powdered 
sugar in a saucepan with six egg yolks and a pint of sweet cream, and 
mix well together for two minutes ; set the saucepan on the hot stove, 
then stir gently and continually from the bottom, using a spatula, until 
nearly coming to a boil ; as this is difficult to determine on account of the 



D ESSEX rs. 371 



briskness of the fire, the best way to tell when it is sufficiently done is to 
lift up the spatula and see whether the cream adheres thickly to it, if so, 
remove the saucepan from the fire and lay it on the table, add immedi- 
ately to it four ounces of freshly roasted Mocha coffee in beans, then stir 
again well for one minute more. Remove the spatula, cover the sauce- 
pan with a napkin, put the lid on, and let infuse for one hour. Beat up 
one pint of fresh sweet cream as for No. 1254, and let rest until needed. 
Place an ice-cream freezer in a tub, fill it up all round with broken ice 
mixed with rock-salt, wipe the cover nicely, and then remove it ; strain 
the infused preparation through a fine sieve into the freezer, put on the 
cover, then take hold of the handle, and turn th? freezer briskly in oppo- 
site directions for five minutes ; remove the cover, and with the spatula 
detach all the cream that adheres to the sides and bottom, recover, and 
turn sharply as before ; remove the cover, detach the cream from the 
sides and bottom, replace the cover, and begin turning again in opposite 
directions for five minutes longer. The cream should now be thoroughly 
frozen. Drop the whipped cream into the freezer, very little at a time, 
meanwhile mixing it gently with the spatula, which should take four min- 
utes to accomplish it; then have ready a three-pint, channeled, ice-cream 
mold, and with an ice-cream spoon fill the mold with the preparation, and 
put on the lid. Place some broken ice with rock-salt at the bottom, of a 
pail, lay the mold over, and fill up the pail with more ice and salt, then 
let freeze for fully one hour. Afterward remove the mold, dip it into 
lukewarm water, wipe away the ice and salt, and lift it up immediately, 
take off the cover, and turn the cream onto a cold dessert-dish with a 
folded napkin, and serve. 

1296. Rice and Cream a la Croce. Put one pint of cold milk into a 
saucepan, adding one pint of cold water and half a saltspoonful of salt, 
place the pan on the hot stove, and when boiling, throw in four ounces of 
well-cleaned, raw rice; then with a spatula stir slowly and continually at 
the bottom while it is cooking for twenty-five minutes, then take the pan 
from off the fire, lay it on a table, and add immediately four ounces of 
powdered sugar and one ounce of fresh butter ; mix well together with a 
spatula for two minutes, then transfer it into another vessel, and set it in 
a cold place for one hour to have it thoroughly cooled off. Whip to a 
froth one pint of sweet cream as for No. 1254, cover the basin with a nap- 
kin, and let rest for twenty minutes ; should there be any milk settled at 
the bottom, pour it off, and add to the cream two ounces of powdered 
sugar and one teaspoonful of vanilla flavoring, then with a wire whip beat 
well together for two minutes longer, and remove the whip. Take the 
rice from the vessel, drop it gradually into the whipped cream, then mix 
the whole together slowly and carefully for three minutes. Line a two- 
quart, tin melon-form with three ounces of peach marmalade (No. 1331), 
fill the mold with the preparation, put on the cover, and after placing a 
little broken ice at the bottom of a pail, lay in the mold, and cover it 
entirely with broken ice (no salt is necessary for this), and let freeze for 
one hour. Have a vessel with two quarts of lukewarm water ; lift up 



72 THE TABLE. 



the mold from the pail, dip it into the water, wash off the ice, and raise 
it up immediately ; remove the cover, turn the preparation onto a cold 
dessert-dish, and send to the table. 

1297. Oranges Glacees a la George Renanldt. Have six fine, solid 
oranges, and with a pastry-tube, one and a quarter of an inch in diameter, 
cut off the tops of the oranges, then with a small knife remove the covers 
gently, laying them aside until later. With either a Parisian-potato cutter 
or a spoon, empty the insides of the oranges, being careful to avoid 
breaking any of the skin, for should that occur, they will be useless ; the 
interiors can be used for some other purpose. Arrange the oranges, with 
their covers on, in a square biscuit-glace box as for No. 1286 ; place the 
box in a tub, filling it with broken ice mixed with rock-salt, and let freeze 
for one hour. Prepare a champagne punch as for No. 1307, and with it 
fill the interior of the oranges, put on the covers, and with different col- 
ored ribbons tie each one, beginning at the top ; when at the bottom, turn 
the ribbon and bring it back to the top in an opposite direction, then make 
a graceful bow on top of the covers. Lay them again in the box, and let 
them freeze for one hour longet, then dress them on a dessert-dish with 
a folded napkin, and serve. 

1298. Macedoine Glacee a la Cavour. Prepare a pint of lemon ice- 
cream as for No. 1278, also a pint of coffee ice-cream (No. 1273), leaving 
them in their freezers. Take two ounces of candied cherries, cut in 
halves, two ounces of candied apricots, cut in slices, one ounce of candied 
angelica, cut into very small, lozenge-shaped pieces, two ounces of can- 
died pineapple, cut into very thin slices, and twelve French walnuts, 
shelled and divided. Have a three- pint, square ice-cream mold, place 
half the lemon ice-cream at the bottom, arrange a third part of the fruits 
nicely over, dividing them equally, then cover with half of the coffee ice- 
cream, and with a spoon press it down well. Lay half the remaining 
fruits on top of this, and spread over the rest of the lemon ice-cream, 
then the last of the fruits, and fill up the mold with the balance of the 
coffee ice-cream. Close very firmly, and lay it into a pail with broken ice 
mixed with rock-salt at the bottom, and filling it with the same, then let 
freeze for two hours. Two minutes before serving prepare a vessel with 
warm water, lift up the mold, and wash off the ice and salt, then unmold 
the macedoine immediately on a cold dessert-dish with a fancy paper 
over, and send it to the table. 

1299. Charlottes Glacees. Take six small charlotte-molds, and line 
them nicely with twelve biscuits a la cuillere (No. 1231) cut crosswise 
into halves. Have ready one pint and a half of vanilla ice-cream (No. 
1271), and fill the interiors of the molds with it, and turn them onto a des- 
sert-dish with a folded napkin over. Divide the remaining ice-cream 
evenly over the six charlottes, with one macaroon (No. 1210) on top of 
each, then send immediately to the table. 

1300. Charlottes Panachees. Have six charlotte-molds lined as for 
charlottes glacees (No. 1299); fill them with a pint of vanilla ice-cream 
(No. 1271), then turn them onto six cold dessert-plates. Take a pastry- 



DESSERTS. 373 



bag (No. 1079), slide down in it a fancy tube (No. 3), and pour into it a 
pint of whipped creme a la vanille (No. 1254); press a little of this onto 
the top of the charlottes, arrange over them six macaroons (No. 1210), 
press a little more cream about the size of a nut on the top of each maca- 
roon, then with the balance of the cream decorate the bottom of the char- 
lottes all around, and serve. 

1301. Meringues Glacees. Prepare a pint and a half of vanilla ice- 
cream (No. 1271), and with a round ice-cream spoon divide it evenly onto 
six cold dessert-plates, and arrange over each two meringue-shells 
(No. 1250), so as to nearly enclose the ice-cream, and then send to the 
table. 

1302. Meringues Panachees. Have six meringue-shells (No. 1250); 
divide evenly into them a pint of vanilla ice-cream (No. 1271). Slide into 
a pastry-bag (No. 1079) a fancy tube (No. 3), and pour into it a pint of 
whipped creme a la vanille (No. 1254) ; press half of it into six other 
meringue-shells, then join them to the other six containing the ice-cream. 
Lay them on six cold dessert-plates, and decorate the joints nicely with 
the balance of the cream, then send to the table at once. 

1303. Punch a la Lorenzo Delmonico. Put in a china bowl half a 
pound of powdered sugar, squeeze in the juice of three fine, sound, large 
lemons and the juice of a fine, large, red orange, then with a very clean 
wooden spoon mix together for three minutes. Add half a pint of cold 
water, a gill of Swiss kirsch, and stir for four minutes more, then strain 
through a fine sieve into the ice-cream freezer, remove the sieve, and 
pour into the freezer half a gill of St. Croix rum, a quarter of a gill of 
Delmonico's fine champagne cognac, and half a pint of Delmonico's cham- 
pagne. Cover immediately with the lid, and place the freezer in a narrow 
ice-cream tub, filling the latter all round with broken ice mixed with rock- 
salt ; then with the handle on the cover turn as sharply as possible for 
three minutes ; wipe the cover neatly, uncover, and with a wooden spoon 
detach the punch from the sides of the freezer, as also from the bottom ; 
cover again, turn the handle for three minutes more, uncover, detach the 
punch as before, cover, and repeat this three times as explained for the 
vanilla ice-cream (No. 1271). Have six. cold dessert-plates covered with 
fancy papers, each one having an L. D. designed on it ; fill six punch- 
glasses with the punch, arrange them on the plates, and send to the 
table. 

1304. Bomaine Punch. Make half the quantity of the preparation the 
same as lemon water-ice (No. 1279), and before freezing add' a gill of 
Jamaica rum; then finish the same, only serving the romaine punch in six 
small punch-glasses. 

1305. Kirsch Punch. To be prepared precisely as for the above 
(No. 1304), only substituting a gill of kirsch for the rum, and serving it 
the same. 

1306. Punch a la Cardinal. Prepare half the quantity of the prepa- 
ration as for raspberry water-ice (No. 1281); strain it through a sieve into 
the freezer, then pour in half a gill of red curac.oa, and half a gill of 



374 THE TABLE. 



maraschino; put on the lid, and freeze it the same as for vanilla ice-cream 
(No. 1271), only serving it in six punch-glasses. 

1307. Champagne Punch. Have half the quantity of preparation 
described for orange water-ice (No. 1280), strain it through a sieve into 
the freezer, and add half a pint of good champagne. Place the cover on, 
and proceed to freeze it exactly as for vanilla ice-cream (No. 1271), serv- 
ing it in six punch-glasses. 

1308. Punch a la Lalla Rookh. Have ready half the quantity of 
preparation of vanilla ice-cream (No. 1271); strain it through a fine sieve 
into the freezer, adding one gill of Jamaica rum; freeze it the same, and 
serve it in glasses. 

1309. Punch en Surprise. Have six fancy forms; one the shape of 
a pear, one of an apple, one of a banana, one of a tomato, one of a pine- 
apple, and one of a peach. Fill a tin pan with finely cracked ice well 
mixed with rock-salt, lay on it the six molds, opened flat, fill them with 
cold water, also the pan to half its height, and let it all rest for one hour; 
feel the inside of the molds to find whether a frozen crust adheres to them; 
if so, continue to finish the punch. Have any kind of desired punch 
ready; take up each mold separately, empty out the water, and fill 
them one after another; close tightly, and lay them in a pail previously 
prepared with broken ice and rock-salt at the bottom; cover them with 
plenty more ice and salt, and let freeze one hour. Have ready a cold 
dessert-dish with a folded napkin over; put some warm water in a vessel, 
take up each mold, one by one, dip them into the water, and hastily wash 
off any ice or salt which may adhere, unmold them carefully, and lay 
them nicely on the dessert-dish, and send to the table at once. 

1310. Punch a la Franqaisej Hot. Put in a saucepan on the hot 
range one pint of Jamaica rum, with twelve ounces of granulated sugar; 
stir continually with the spatula until reduced to half the quantity. Add 
the juice of three lemons, the juice of four sweet oranges, then set the 
pan on the corner of the stove to keep hot. Put into a tea-pot one ounce 
of green tea, pouring over it a pint of boiling water, and let infuse for ten 
minutes, then strain into the preparation; return it on the hot place, and 
when about boiling, skim thoroughly with a skimmer. Take it from the 
fire, pour it into a punch-bowl, and serve. 

1311. Punch a la FranC,aise ? Iced. Have a punch a la Francaise 
ready as for the above (No. 1310), and let cool off. Pour it into a small 
freezer, cover it, and lay it in a wooden tub filled with chopped ice all 
around. Sprinkle the ice well with rock-salt, and with the hands turn the 
freezer sharply around in opposite directions. While doing -this, stop 
every two minutes to detach the punch from around the freezer (using a 
spatula), so that it will be perfectly firm. If sharply handled, fifteen min- 
utes will suffice to freeze it thoroughly, then serve in six punch-glasses, 
dividing it equally. 

1312. Punch a la Czarina, Hot. Place in a copper or tin vessel one 
pound of granulated sugar, half a pint of Swiss kirsch, four ounces of St. 
Croix rum, and two ounces of good cognac. Light this mixture with a 



DESSERTS. 375 



match, and let it burn until the sugar is dissolved, then pour in a quart of 
Roederer's champagne, not colder than fifty degrees Fahrenheit. Squeeze 
in the juice of a good-sized mellow orange, and add twelve thin slices of 
pineapple; mix the whole well with a ladle, heat it slightly, being careful 
it does not boil, then pour the punch into a fancy bowl, and serve hot 
with six punch-glasses. 

1313. Champagne Cup. Squeeze the juice of half a good-sized, sound 
lemon into a fancy glass pitcher large enough to contain five pints; 
sweeten with one tablespoonful of powdered sugar, then add two ponies 
of red curacoa, one bottle of plain soda, and two slices of cucumber-rind. 
Pour in three pints of any brand of champagne, adding about a quarter of 
a pound of ice, then mix thoroughly with a spoon, and ornament the 
punch nicely with strawberries, very thin slices of pineapple, a finely 
sliced, medium-sized orange, and half a bunch of fine, fresh mint; send the 
cup to the table with six champagne-glasses. 

1314. Claret Cup. Have a glass pitcher holding two and a half 
quarts, or five pints; squeeze in the juice of three medium-sized, sound 
lemons, add four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, two ponies of red 
cura$oa, and two slices of cucumber-rind, then pour in three pints of 
claret, and one bottle of plain soda ; or a pint of either Clysmic, Apolli- 
naris, or carbonic water will answer. Mix thoroughly with a spoon, 
adding a lump of ice weighing about three quarters of a pound; mix again, 
then decorate with a finely sliced orange, cut into small pieces, berries of 
any kind, and finally with half a bunch of fresh mint. Serve in six punch- 
glasses, and the effect will be exceedingly pretty. 

1315. Water-lfielon a la Komero. Have a fine, sound, large, ripe 
water-melon, and with a very thin knife cut out a piece in the centre two 
inches square by three and a half inches deep; remove the piece carefully, 
and pour gradually into the inside one quart bottleful of champagne; 
replace the piece of melon in its former position, then lay the melon in 
the ice-box for six hours to infuse; set it on a silver dessert-dish, and send 
to the table, cutting it according to taste. 

1316. Water-melon a la Jose" Paez. Proceed and prepare exactly the 
same as for the above (No. 1315), only substituting one pint of Jamaica 
rum for the champagne, and serving the same. 

1317. Water-melon a la Seward. Prepare a water-melon as for No. 
1315, pouring into it one pint of Delmonico's cognac, instead of the cham- 
pagne, and serving it the same. 

1318. Sherry-wine Jelly. Put one quart of cold water into a sauce- 
pan with half a pound of granulated sugar; break in two ounces of gelatine 
in small pieces, and grate in the rind of a medium-sized lemon, squeezing 
in the juice as well. Mix well, and place the saucepan on the hot stove. 
Beat up in a basin two egg whites, and add them to the other ingredients, 
then grate in a saltspoonful of nutmeg, adding six cloves, and one bay- 
leaf, mixing well with the whip for one minute. Have ready a seamless 
jelly-bag (which can be purchased ready made), tie it on a jelly-stand, or 
if none handy, two kitchen chairs will answer the purpose. Stir the 



376 THE TABLE. 



preparation, and when coming to a boil, set it back to a cooler part of the 
stove to prevent it overflowing; stir, while boiling, for six minutes. Place 
a vessel under the jelly-bag, remove the pan from the fire, and pour the 
whole into the bag, immediately adding to it half a pint of good sherry 
wine, and a teaspoonful of burned sugar(No. 1265). Let it drain into the 
vessel, then return it to the bag, placing another vessel underneath, then 
let it drain through for fully two hours. Have a quart jelly-mold, pour 
the jelly from the vessel into it, and set it aside in a cool place for two 
hours, then put it into the ice-box to harden for two hours more. Prepare 
a cold dessert-dish, and after dipping the mold lightly and carefully to 
near its edge in lukewarm water, take it up immediately, and turn it onto 
the dish, wiping neatly the latter all around, then send to the table. 

1319. Kirsch Jelly. This jelly is to be prepared the same as the 
sherry-wine jelly (No. 1318), omitting the burned sugar, and replacingthe 
sherry w^ine by a gill of Swiss Kirschwasser, then serving it the same. 

1320. Jamaica-rum Jelly. Proceed exactly the same as for sherry- 
wine jelly (No. 1318), only substituting a gill of Jamaica rum for the 
sherry, then finish and serve the same. 

1321. Brandy Jelly. To be prepared precisely the same as the sherry- 
wine jelly (No. 1318), substituting a gill of good brandy for the sherry, and 
served the same as the other jellies. 

1322. Champagne Jelly. To be made the same as the sherry-wine 
jelly (No. 1318), suppressing the burned sugar, and using half a pint of 
Delmonico's champagne, instead of the sherry. To be served the same. 

1323. Kttmmel Jelly. Prepare and proceed exactly as for sherry-wine 
jelly (No. 1318), suppressing the burned sugar, and replacing the sherry 
by a gill of Russian kummel, sending it to the table the same as for the 
others. 

1324. Rhein-wine Jelly. The same as for sherry-wine jelly (No. 1318), 
omitting the burned sugar, and using half a pint of Lieberfraumilch wine, 
instead of the sherry, and serving the same. 

1325. Marcella-wine Jelly a la Castellar. To be made exactly the 
same as sherry-wine jelly (No. 1318,) using half a pint of Marcella wine in 
place of the sherry, and finished the same. 

1326. Currant Jelly. Select sixteen pounds of small, old Dutch cur- 
rants, not too ripe; those are preferable which are picked at the end of 
the month of June. Place them in a copper basin on the hot stove, 
and begin stirring them immediately from the bottom, using a wooden 
spatula; when they begin to scald, pour them into a clean tub, and with a 
pounder mash them thoroughly. Strain them through a flannel jelly-bag 
back into the copper basin, adding to the juice seven pounds of granulated 
sugar. Return the pan to the fire, and let boil until reduced to about half 
the quantity, then dip in a skimmer, lift it up, and feel the jelly with the 
two forefingers; close them, and open them slowly, if the jelly is 
mucilaginous, then it is done; if not, cook for a few minutes longer. 
Take it from the fire, and pour a little into every glass jar ready to use, 
as this will prevent them cracking. Afterwards fill them up. When 



DESSERTS. 377 



thoroughly cold, which will be in about two hours, during which time 
they must not be disturbed, cork them tightly, and put them in a closet. 
Currant jelly prepared in this way will keep in good condition for two 
years. 

1827. Apple Jelly. Put six good-sized apples into a saucepan after 
cutting them into quarters ; add a pint of cold water and a quarter of a 
lemon, then place it on a hot stove, and let boil for fifteen minutes. Place 
a sieve over a vessel, pour the contents of the pan onto it, and let drain 
thoroughly for fifteen minutes, then remove the sieve, and pour the apple 
juice into a saucepan with a pound of granulated sugar. Replace it on 
the hot stove, and let boil for thirty minutes, so that it be reduced to 
half, then take it from the fire, and pour it into a stone jar to cool off 
thoroughly, and use it when required for pies, cakes, or any other desired 
purpose. 

1328. Apple Sauce. Press the apples cooked in the above (No. 1327) 
through the sieve into a bowl, add half a pound of powdered sugar, a 
teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, and mix well together for two minutes, 
place it in a stone jar, and use when required. 

1329. Cranberry Sauce. Put in a saucepan one quart of fine, red, 
cleaned cranberries with a gill of water; place it on a hot stove and boil 
for fifteen minutes, then add five ounces of powdered sugar, and stir 
lightly with a spatula for five minutes. Remove it from the fire, pour it 
into a sieve over a vessel, and press well through with a wooden spoon. 
Transfer it into a stone jar, and use when required. 

1330. Stewed Prunes a la General Dufour. Procure ten ounces of 
the best imported prunes (which should invariably be purchased at a 
responsible dealer's), and put them in a vessel with a quart of cold water, 
letting them soak for four hours; then thoroughly drain them. Put them 
in a saucepan with half a pint of cold water, the zest of a sound lemon, 
a two-inch-length piece of cinnamon, two ounces of fresh butter, and four 
ounces of powdered sugar. Place the pan on a slow fire, and with the 
spatula stir carefully and gently once in a while, to avoid breaking them. 
After letting them cook slowly for two hours, remove the pan from the 
stove, and add immediately a pint of Bordeaux wine, replace it on the 
stove to heat thoroughly, but not allowing it to boil again ; take from off 
the fire, pour the prunes into a stone jar, let get cold, then serve. 

1331. Peach Marmalade. Peel and cut into slices twelve good-sized, 
sound peaches ; put into a saucepan half a pound of granulated sugar and 
a pint of cold water ; place it on a hot stove, and let come to a boil, then 
add the peaches, and cook for twelve minutes, stirring continually with 
the spatula. Remove from the fire, and strain through a pastry-sieve 
into a bowl, adding twelve peeled almonds (No. 1207), then let cool off 
thoroughly. Put it into a china bowl, lay it aside in a cool place, and 
use when needed. This marmalade will keep for several days if properly 
prepared. 

1332. Stewed Apples. Take six fine, sound Middletown pippin apples, 
peel them neatly, and with an apple-corer core them thoroughly, then cut 



TABLE. 



each apple into four quarters, and lay them in a saucepan with a pint of 
cold water, adding half a pound of granulated sugar. When the contents 
of the pan come to a boil, skim well, and then flavor with the juice of 
half an orange, or the same quantity of lemon, and a saltspoonful of 
ground cinnamon can also be added. When flavored, let cook for five 
minutes longer, and with a spatula stir slowly from the bottom to avoid 
mashing the apples. Remove from the fire, pour into a china bowl, and 
cool off thoroughly before serving. 

1333. Stewed Pears. Are to be prepared and cooked exactly the 
same as for the above (No, 1332). 

1334. Stewed Peaches. Peel and cut into quarters ten medium-sized, 
sound, ripe peaches, removing the stones, put them into a saucepan with 
a pint of cold water, adding half a pound of granulated sugar. Place the 
pan on the stove, and when boiling skim well ; let cook for five minutes, 
meanwhile stirring them slowly from the bottom, to avoid mashing the 
fruit; then remove, and immediately add a gill of kirsch, mixing well 
together for about half a minute. Pour into a china bowl, let get cool, 
then dress on a dessert-dish, and serve. 

1335. Stewed Apricots. Peel, cut, and stone twelve good-sized apri- 
cots, or fifteen if they be small; then proceed to prepare them exactly as 
for stewed peacries (No. 1334), only substituting a gill of brandy for the 
kirsch. 

1336. Stewed Green-gages. Have eighteen or twenty solid, ripe, 
green-gages, peel them neatly, cut them in halves, and stone them. Pro- 
ceed exactly the same as for stewed peaches (No. 1334), only replacing the 
kirsch by a gill of red cura9oa, and serving the same. 

1337. Stewed Plums. Proceed exactly the same as for the above (No. 
!336), substituting the same quantity of plums for the green-gages. 

1338. Stewed Quinces. Take twelve fine, firm, ripe quinces, peel and 
core them thoroughly, then cut them into quarters, and put them in a 
saucepan with a pint of cold water and half a pound of granulated sugar. 
Place them on the stove; when boiling, skim well, and let cook for fifteen 
minutes, stirring them gently at the bottom with a spatula to avoid mash- 
ing the fruit. Remove from the fire, and immediately add a gill of 
maraschino; stir lightly again, then pour into a china bowl to let cool. 
Dress on a dessert-dish and serve. 

1339. Syrup for Preserving Fruits. Put seven pounds of granulated 
sugar into a sugar-pan, adding five pints of cold water, and when on the 
hot stove, stir with the spatula until thoroughly heated, but it must not 
boil. Remove it from the fire, lay it aside, and use when needed for 
different fruits. The above quantity will produce five quarts at thirty 
degrees Fahrenheit. 

1340. Preserved Peaches. The best variety for preserving are 
either the " Crawford Late," or " Smoke." Select one hundred thoroughly 
ripe, sound, medium-sized peaches; peel them neatly, cut them in halves, 
and remove the stones with care. Have ready ten patent lightning-glass 
jars, each holding one quart, or twenty holding only a pint each; then divide 



D ESSEX TS. 379 



the peaches equally into them, and pour into each one pint of syrup 
prepared as for No. 1339, or half a pint, if using the pint jars, taking care 
that the peaches floating on the top should be entirely covered, even if it 
be necessary to press them down lightly. Put on the cover very tight, 
then bring the larger wire up in the very centre between the two small 
knobs, and press the smaller one downwards. Place the jars in a large 
saucepan standing, seeing that they do not touch each other, otherwise 
they might break, and arrange a little hay or straw between every one. 
Fill the pan with cold water so as to cover them entirely, and placing it 
on the hot stove, let boil for ten minutes. Take from off the fire, stand 
the pan on a table, and with a towel lift up the jars one by one, laying 
them most carefully on a dry kitchen table, and avoid putting them in a 
cold place. When all are so arranged, taking the towel into the hand, lift 
up the smaller wire, so that the gas slightly escapes for one minute, then 
immediately pull it down again until hermetically sealed. Let them stand 
till thoroughly cold, then put them away for general use. The right 
temperature for keeping them is from 65 to 75 degrees. Should the sauce- 
p'an not be sufficiently large to contain all the jars, boil five at a time. 

The best time to select the peaches is from August 20 to Sep- 
tember 20. 

1341. Preserved Bartlett Pears. Procure one hundred medium-sized^ 
sound, and fully ripe pears, fit to eat in their natural state; peel them 
carefully keeping them in their original form, then split in halves, and cut 
out the cores and seeds. Fill ten lightning-glass jars with the pears, 
and pour over five quarts of syrup (No. 1339), covering them tightly the 
same as for the peaches (No. 1340), placing them likewise in the saucepan, 
but boiling for fifteen minutes instead of ten. When lifted from the pan, 
proceed precisely as for the peaches. The best time to purchase the 
fruit is from August 25 to September 20. 

1342. Preserved Apples. Select sixty medium-sized, fine, sound, ripe 
Newtown pippins, the best time for this being from October I to Decem- 
ber i. Peel and core them with a corer, then cut them into quarters, 
and divide them equally into ten glass jars as for peaches (No. 1340). 
Fill them up with the syrup at thirty degrees, then cover tightly, put 
them in the saucepan exactly the same as for the peaches, and boil for 
fifteen minutes instead of ten. Take from off the fire, and finish the same 
as for the peaches, putting them away in the same temperature. 

1343. Preserved Egg-plums. Have two hundred medium sized egg- 
plums, ripe enough to break easily from the stones ; wash them care- 
fully, drain, then divide them equally into the ten quart lightning-jars. 
Fill them up with the thirty-degree syrup (No. 1339), cover tightly, and 
arrange them in the pan precisely as for peaches (No. 1340). Boil them 
for eight minutes instead of ten, then take from the stove, and finish pre- 
paring them exactly as for the peaches. The best time to procure these 
is from August 5 to September i. 

1344. Preserved Grreen-gages. Procure two hundred and fifty fine, 
ripe green-gages, selecting those which break easily from the stones ; 



380 THE TABLE. 



wash them well in cold water, drain thoroughly, then divide them equally 
into the ten patent glass jars, exactly as described for peaches (No. 1340). 
Fill up with five quarts of thirty-degree syrup (No. 1339), an d finish pre- 
paring them the same as for peaches, but boiling them only for eight 
minutes instead of ten ; put them away the same as the other fruits. The 
best time to procure green-gages is from August i to September i. 

1345. Preserved Strawberries. Always purchase the berries from 
June 7 to July 20, when residing in New York. Have fully the 
equivalent of ten quarts of well-picked and thoroughly washed, ripe, 
sound, and perfect strawberries, drain them well. To have these well 
selected it will doubtless require twenty-two to twenty-five quart baskets 
of unpicked fruit. When well drained, fill the ten quart lightning-glass 
jars with the berries, and pour in the thirty-degree syrup (No. 1339), but 
using it hot instead of cold. Cover them tightly, and proceed precisely 
the same as for peaches (No. 1340), only boiling them five minutes instead 
of ten, and putting them away the same. 

1346. Preserved Kaspberries. Have ready the equivalent of ten 
quarts of fine, ripe, solid, well- washed, and thoroughly drained raspber- 
ries ; sixteen quart baskets will be about the necessary quantity to pur- 
chase. When ready, fill up the ten lightning-glass jars, and proceed to 
prepare them as explained for peaches (No. 1340), the only exception 
being that they must be boiled five minutes instead of ten. The proper 
time to obtain the berries is from July 10 to July 20. 

1347. Preserved Cherries. Purchase twenty-five pounds of fine, 
sound, ripe, white wax cherries ; pick off the stems neatly, and should 
there be any unripe or spoilt ones among them, throw them away, as 
they would likely ruin the rest. When finished, there should be about 
twenty pounds of sound cherries suitable for preserving. Have ready 
ten quart lightning-glass jars, same as for the peaches (No. 1340); divide 
the picked cherries evenly into them, and fill up with the thirty-degree 
syrup (No. 1339). Cover them tightly and carefully, then arrange them 
in a large saucepan precisely the same as the peaches, and finish them 
exactly as described in that number, boiling them for the same length of 
time. June 15 to July i is the best time to obtain the fruit. 

1348. How to Boast Coffee. If practicable, procure a small family 
coffee-roaster. Have three quarters of a pound of Java, mixed with a 
quarter of a pound of Mocha, place it in the roaster, and taking one of the 
lids from off the stove, put the roaster on a moderate fire, and turn the 
small handle constantly and slowly until the coffee becomes a good brown 
color; for this it should take about twenty-five minutes; open the cover to 
see when it is done, then transfer it to an earthen jar, cover it tightly, and 
use when needed; or, a more simple way, and even more effectual, is to 
take a tin baking-dish, butter well the bottom, and placing the same 
quantity of coffee therein, put it in a moderate oven to let get a good 
golden color; twenty minutes will suffice for this, being careful to toss it 
frequently with a wooden spoon, then remove to an earthen jar. and cover 
it well. 



DESSERTS. 381 



Roasting one's own coffee is a sure way of having it always fresh; 
besides, it retains its full flavor; but care must also be taken to purchase 
coffee from a responsible, first-class dealer. 

1349. How to Make Black Coffee. Take six light tablespoonfuls of 
coffee-beans from the jar (No. 1348); grind them in a mill, neither too 
coarse nor too fine. Have a well-cleaned French coffee-pot, put the coffee 
on the filter, with the small strainer over, then pour on a pint and a half 
of boiling water, little by little, recollecting, at the same time, that too 
much care cannot be taken to impress on those making the coffee, the 
necessity of having the water boiling thoroughly, otherwise it were as 
useless to attempt the feat as to try and raise musk-melons at the North 
Pole, notwithstanding that the coffee be of the very first quality. When 
all the water is consumed put on the cover, and let infuse slightly, but on 
no account must it boil again; then serve in six after-dinner cups. Coffee 
should never be prepared more than five minutes before the time to serve. 

1350. Cafe Noir a PAlexander the Great. Put in an earthen pot on 
the hot range three pints of cold water; when boiling, immediately add 
four and a half ounces of freshly ground coffee, and as soon as the coffee 
has been added, put the pot on the corner of the stove to rest for three 
minutes. Have a piece of hot, red (very red) charcoal the size of a small 
banana, plunge it into the coffee. (If no charcoal at hand, a piece of red 
stove-coal will answer). Let rest again for three minutes; then you will see 
a heavy foam appearing at the surface of the coffee, thoroughly skim it off 
with a skimmer. Then carefully and gently pour it into a hot coffee-pot, 
and send to the table with six small, hot demi-tasses; accompanied with 
six ponies of old Renauldt cognac. , 

I would recommend that, after the scum has been removed, the coffee 
should be handled as gently as possible, so that all undesirable elements 
will remain at the bottom. 

1351. Cafe au Lait (Coffee With Milk). Have a clean French coffee- 
filter ready on the hot range ; place in it four and a half ounces of freshly 
ground coffee, as for No. 1349; then gradually pour over it, all around, 
half a pint of boiling water; let rest for three minutes, then gradually 
pour over two pints and a half more of boiling water (taking special care 
that, under no circumstances, should it be allowed to boil again after the 
water has been poured over). When all dripped down, pour it into a hot 
coffee-pot. Take three pints of good, freshly and thoroughly heated milk 
(but do not boil it), pour it into a hot pitcher, send to the table with six 
hot cups i cafeau lait, pouring into each cup half coffee and half milk. 

1352. Cafe au Lait a la St. Gottardo. Place in an earthen pot on the 
hot range two quarts of very fresh milk, and let it heat until near the boiling- 
point, then immediately add two and a half ounces of fresh, finely ground 
coffee (No. 1349). Shuffle the pot in contrary directions until it comes to 
a boil; then let it rest for three minutes. 

Strain it through a clean napkin into a hot serving-pitcher, and serve 
with six cafe-au-lait cups. 

1353. Cafe Glace (Iced Coffee). Prepare one quart of coffee as for 



382 THE 7 'ABLE. 



No. 1349, and also one quart of thoroughly heated milk (not boiled). 
Pour both coffee and milk into a small ice-cream freezer. Sweeten with 
three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar; tightly cover the freezer, place 
it in a tub containing broken ice and rock-salt a little higher than the 
height of the coffee, then sharply turn it by the handle of the cover, in 
different directions, for five or six minutes; neatly wipe the cover of the 
freezer all around to avoid that any ice should fall in; and with the aid of 
a ladle pour it into a pitcher, and serve with six coffee-glasses, and 
powdered sugar separately. 

1354. The (Tea). Place in a tea-pot three heaped tablespoonfuls, or 
one and a half ounces, of the best English-breakfast tea, purchased from a 
responsible dealer. Pour over five pints of boiling water. See to it that 
the water is boiling, else, even with the best quality of tea, you will never 
succeed to have it made to perfection. Let infuse for five minutes (but 
do not boil again), then send to the table with a pint of cold milk, or a 
pint of sweet cream. 

The Glace (Iced Tea). Prepare the same quantity of tea the same as 
above, pour into an ice-cream freezer, sweeten, and proceed the same as 
for iced coffee (No. 1353), (omitting the milk); pour it into a cold pitcher, 
and send to the table with six coffee-glasses, six slices of sound lemon, and 
powdered sugar separately. 

1855. Th6 a la RUSSC (Russian Tea). Place in a tea-pot three heaped 
tablespoonfuls of English-breakfast tea; pour over a little boiling water, 
just sufficient to cover the tea, about two tablespoonfuls; let infuse for 
one minute, then draw the water out, but do not use it. Pour in half a 
pony of good old Jamaica rum and three pints of boiling water; let infuse 
for four minutes, and then serve in cup with a decanter of old Jamaica 
rum separately, thin slices of lemon, and powdered sugar. 

This is the old Russian style. Later fashion is to flavor it with a little 
vanilla flavor and a few drops of lemon juice. 

1856. HOW to Make Chocolate. Select three quarters of a pound of 
good chocolate (Maillard's is preferable), break it into pieces, and put 
thern in a saucepan on the stove with half a pint of boiling water ; stir 
well with a wooden spoon, and when the chocolate is thoroughly dis- 
solved pour one quart of boiling water over, using a quart of milk instead 
of the water when chocolate and milk is desired. Let it cook well for ten 
minutes, then serve. 

1357. Chocolat au Lait aja Georg-e Washington. Have a stone pot 
on the hot range with half a pint of cold water. Break in six tablets of 
one ounce each of Maillard's chocolate, sharply mix with a very clean 
wooden spoon or spatula until it is thoroughly dissolved ; then add two 
quarts of good cold milk, thoroughly heat until it comes to a boil, mixing 
lightly with the wooden spoon meanwhile. Pour it into a hot pitcher, 
and send to the table with cups and powdered sugar separately. 

A pinch of salt represents 205 grains, or a tablespoonful. 

Half a pinch of pepper represents 38 grains, or a teaspoonful. 

A third of a pinch of nutmeg represents 13 grains, or half a teaspoonful. 



S UPPPEMENT. 3 8 ; 



SUPPLEMENT. 



1358. Lobster a la Rushmore. Select three fine, fresh lobsters, each 
weighing two pounds; boil them in salted water for ten minutes, then 
take them out and put to cool for eighteen minutes. Pick out all the 
meat, leaving the main body-shells intact for further use. Mince up the 
tail-parts, coral, and claws into pieces a quarter of an inch thick by three 
quarters of an inch wide. Put a sautoire containing half an ounce of fresh 
butter on the hot stove; chop up very fine one good-sized, sound shallot, 
add it to the butter in the pan, also the minced lobster, and season with a 
light pinch of salt, a light saltspoonful of cayenne pepper, and half a 
glassful of good white wine; let the whole reduce for ten minutes, stirring 
it meanwhile with a wooden spoon. Add one tablespoonful of tomato 
sauce (No. 205), four tablespoonfuls of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), and 
six mushroom-stalks chopped up very fine. Let cook well for ten minutes 
longer, then set the sautoire on the corner of the stove to keep warm. 
Take the .three main shells of the lobsters, split them evenly in two, 
lengthwise, pare the ends off neatly, wash them thoroughly, and wipe 
them dry. These shells should not be longer than four and a half inches. 
Fill the six shells with the prepared lobster, lay two mushroom heads on 
top of each, put them on a tin plate and pour over the remainder of the 
sauce in the sautoire. Set them in the hot oven to bake for five minutes, 
then remove and dress them on a hot dish with a folded napkin, and send 
to the table. 

1359. Haw Hamburg Steak. Chop up two pounds of beef the same 
as for cooked Hamburg steak (No. 526), only selecting more tender pieces, 
and return it to the machine two or three times so as to have it finer. 
Season with one large pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and the third 
of a pinch of nutmeg. Place the meat on a dish, divide it into six small, 
flattened steaks, and throw a raw egg yolk over each one; garnish with 
two shallots, one tablespoonful of parsley, the same quantity of capers, 
and three anchovies, all finely minced, and arranged in clusters around the 
dish. 

1360. Mignons of Lamb, Sauce Bearnaise. Procure a fine, tender leg 
of lamb, bone it with a sharp knife so as to detach the meat from the 
knuckle, beginning from the hip-side downwards. Cut out from this six 
even pieces or steaks, one inch thick by two and a half in diameter, pare 
them nicely, and with a small, keen knife remove any sinews that are 
liable to adhere to the meat. Lay them on a cold dish, and season with a 
good pinch of salt and a light pinch of pepper, and roll them well, so that 



THE TABLE. 



the seasoning be equally distributed. Put half an ounce of good butter 
in a frying-pan, set it on a brisk fire, and add the pieces, or mignons, im- 
mediately, being careful that they do not lay one on top of the other, and 
cook them very briskly for two and a half minutes on each side. Prepare 
half a pint of Bearnaise sauce (No. 166), pour it on a hot serving-dish, 
dress the six mignons nicely over, one overlapping the other, and send to 
the table immediately. 

Any lamb that may be left over after cutting off the mignons can be 
utilized for minced lamb, soup, or any other purpose desired. 

13B1. Hind-quarter of Spring Lamb. Procure a medium-sized, fine, 
white hind-quarter of lamb ; pare it neatly, trim the small handle-bone, 
and fold the flank over the ribs, to prevent them being overdone; that 
means that the leg and ribs will be equally cooked the same length of 
time. Tie it well together, then season with one and a half pinches of 
salt divided evenly, and envelop it well in its caul or leaf-fat ; lay it in a 
roasting-pan, pouring in one tablespoonful of broth or water, then place 
it in a moderate oven, and let roast for one hour, basting it occasionally 
with its own dripping. Take it from the oven, remove the caul, untie, 
and dress it on a hot dish, adjusting a neat paper ruffle to the handle- 
bone. Skim the fat from off the gravy, strain the latter over the lamb, 
and serve. 

1362. Chicken, Saute a la Ch. C. Delmonico. Select from a good 
poultry-dealer two fine, tender Philadelphia spring-chickens weighing 
two pounds each. Singe them over a little alcohol poured onto a plate, 
draw the entrails, wash well the interiors, then wipe them dry with a 
clean cloth. Cut each chicken into six pieces, place them in a sautoire 
with two tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, season with a good pinch of salt and 
one pinch of pepper, then set the sautoire on a very brisk fire, and let 
cook until the pieces assume a good, light brown color (ten minutes will 
suffice), stirring them lightly in the meanwhile. Chop up very fine one 
sound shallot ; cut one green pepper into small, dice-shaped pieces, also 
the end part only of a medium-sized, peeled carrot ; place all these with 
the chickens, and let cook together for one minute and a half, then add 
one glassful of good white wine, and let the liquid reduce to one-half, 
which will take ten minutes on a brisk fire, stirring it occasionally. Now 
add one gill of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), a tablespoonful of tomato 
sauce (No. 205), the juice of a good-sized, very sound lemon, and a quar- 
ter of an ounce of fresh butter ; let all cook for ten minutes longer, stir- 
ring it lightly with a spoon. Plunge three canned artichoke-bottoms into 
very hot water, lift them up immediately with a skimmer, wipe them 
thoroughly dry with a napkin, then cut each one into four quarters ; slice 
three medium-sized truffles very fine, and add all these to the chickens 
two minutes before serving. Dress the chickens and sauce on a very 
hot serving-dish, adjust paper ruffles to the ends of the four legs ; gar- 
nish the dish artistically with the artichokes star-shaped. Place a slice of 
truffle on the centre of each artichoke, and a very small, round slice of 
Spanish sweet pepper on top of each truffle, and send to the table very hot. 



S UPPLEMENT. 385 



1363. Chicken, Saute a la Ranhofer. Select two fine, tender chickens 
weighing two pounds each ; singe them well, draw the entrails, wash 
thoroughly, and wipe very dry; then cut each chicken into six pieces, and 
season them with a good pinch of salt and a light pinch of pepper. Place 
the pieces of chicken in a sautoire with three quarters of an ounce of 
good butter and half a tablespoonful of sweet oil, and set it on a very 
hot stove. Chop up one shallot very fine, and one sound, green pepper 
cut in small, dice-shaped pieces ; when the chickens are of a light brown 
color, add the shallot and pepper, and stir well for one minute; then add 
a wine-glassful of good white wine, and let reduce to one quarter, which 
will take six minutes. Pour in one gill of tomato sauce (No. 205) and one 
and a half gills of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), and let cook rather slowly 
for ten minutes longer, stirring it occasionally. Dress the chickens and 
sauce on a very hot serving-dish, adjust paper ruffles on the ends of 
the four legs, and decorate the dish with the following garnishing : take 
six canned artichoke-bottoms, spread a tablespoonful of Duxelle (No. 215) 
in the centre of each one ; empty the interiors of six fine, sound, medium- 
sized green peppers, cooked in the oven for five minutes, stuff them with 
Duxelle garnishing (No. 189), and arrange them on top of. the artichokes, 
their thin part uppermost, so as to give them a pyramidal shape; then 
lay them on a buttered tin plate or dish, and set them in a slow oven to 
bake for five minutes ; remove them, but while they are baking cut out 
six round pieces of fresh bread, half an inch thick by two and a half 
inches in diameter ; place them on a hot stove in a frying-pan with half 
a tablespoonful of butter, and let get a light brown color for two minutes. 
Arrange the six artichokes and peppers on top of the 'pieces of bread, 
garnish the dish nicely, and send to the table at once. 

1364. Filets Millions a la Lorillard. After preparing six timbales 
as described below, and when removed from the oven, have ready six 
fine filets mignons as for No. 509, and serve with the following garnish- 
ing and sauce: take six small timbale-molds, measuring one and three 
quarter inches in diameter and two inches deep ; butter well the insides, 
and set them in the ice-box to get thoroughly cold. Have one medium- 
sized, cooked carrot, also one cooked turnip; cut them both with a tube a 
quarter of an inch in diameter by one inch long ; have also half a 
medium-sized, fine, white cabbage, and trim the outer leaves neatly. Put 
into a stewpan one ounce of salt pork cut into small dice-shaped pieces; 
add the cabbage, and season with half a pinch of pepper ; set the pan on a 
rather slow fire, cover it tightly, and let cook slowly for thirty minutes, 
without removing the lid ; during this time decorate the six cold timbales 
by laying a slice of truffle, half an inch in diameter, at the bottom of each, 
and just in the centre, and with the aid of a larding-needle arrange a row 
of cooked green peas around this, then decorate half the interior of each 
timbale with half the prepared carrots and turnips, using the utmost care, 
and keeping them inclining slightly toward the right, and the other half 
inclining toward the left. Fill up the timbales with the cooked cabbage, 
using a spoon to press it in gently, so that they are filled entirely as far 

25 



386 THE TABLE. 



as the top. Put them on a roasting-pan, filling it with hot water to half 
the height of the timbales, then place them in a hot oven, and heat from 
three and a half to four minutes. Take them from the oven, and leave 
the pan on the corner of the stove to keep warm. Cut an oval-shaped 
slice from an American loaf of bread, one inch in thickness, pare the edges 
neatly, then butter it lightly, and place it in the oven on a tin plate to get 
a light brown color; two minutes will be sufficient for this; lay it on a 
very hot dish, and dress the six filets mignons on top of the bread 
croustade, each one lengthwise and slightly overlapping one another, and 
so on until all are used. Pour over the mignons half a pint of hot Colbert 
sauce (No. 190), to which add whatever parings or pieces of truffle 
remain, one minute before using; then with a towel remove the timbales 
from the pan, one after the other, turn them upside down, unmold, and 
with these decorate the dish, placing one at each end and two on each 
side, then send to the table immediately. 

It would be advisable to prepare and cook the fillets after the timbales 
are removed from the oven. 

,1365. Flageolets Sautes au Beurre. Take three quarters of a quart 
can of fine, French flageolet beans, parboil them in boiling and lightly 
salted water for one and a half minutes, then drain them on a colander, 
and place them immediately in a saucepan on the hot stove with an ounce 
of good butter ; season with a teaspoonful of salt, and shuffle lightly 
with a wooden spoon while cooking for three minutes, and when serving, 
add half a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley. Dress them on a hot 
dish, and serve. 

1306. Eggs a la Post. Wash and scrape neatly one good-sized, sound 
carrot, then, with a vegetable-scoop, scoop out twelve round pieces; place 
them in a sautoire with one gill of white broth (No. 99), and a teaspoon- 
ful of good butter. Cook them on the hot range for twenty minutes. 

Place twelve fine, sound, roasted, and shelled Italian chestnuts 
into the sautoire with the carrots, let come to a boil. Remove all the 
skin from two uncooked sausages. Make twelve equal balls out of it, 
place on a tin plate, and bake in the hot oven four minutes. Remove, and 
add them to the carrots and chestnuts. Season with a light pinch of salt 
and the third of a saltspoonful of red pepper; add one gill of Madeira sauce 
(No. 185). Cook for two minutes longer. Have a silver dish sufficiently 
large to contain twelve eggs so that they do not touch one another. 
Place in the centre of the dish half a pint of hot puree of chestnuts (No. 
131), then arrange twelve fried eggs over the puree prepared the same 
as in No. 412. Carefully and equally divide in clusters around the dish, 
the carrots, chestnuts, and sausage balls, then pour the sauce around the 
eggs with a spoon, but none over the eggs. Place on top of each egg 
one thin slice of truffle cut with a tube. Place in the hot oven to heat for 
one minute. Take from out the oven, and serve. 

1367. Oysters Fried a la Arthur Sullivan. Carefully open thirty 
large, fine, fresh box-oysters; place them in a saucepan with their own 
juice, season with the third of a saltspoonful of red pepper, adding half a 



SUPPLEMENT. 387 



medium-sized fine, sound lemon, cut into thin slices, one sprig of thyme, 
a small bay-leaf, and a branch of well-washed parsley. Place on the hot 
range, and heat up very fast without boiling, for which, on a very brisk 
fire, it should be done in one minute and a quarter; then place the whole 
in an earthen bowl to cool. 

Beat up one raw egg in a bowl with one gill of cold milk, seasoned 
with a light pinch of pepper and a light pinch of salt; steep the oysters in 
this, one by one, then lightly roll them in cracker-dust; give them a nice 
even shape in the palm of the hand, and lay them on a dish. Heat up 
thoroughly in a frying-pan on the hot range one gill of clarified butter 
and half a gill of olive oil (it must be very hot before placing in the 
oysters), and fry them for one minute on each side. Remove them with 
a skimmer, dress on a hot dish with a folded napkin, and serve with the 
following sauce separately: 

Strain the juice of the oysters into a saucepan, and reduce it to one 
half on the hot range, with half a saltspoonful of red pepper, adding also 
the juice of half a sound lemon and a gill of sauce Espagnole (No. 151). 
Cook for three minutes, add a teaspoonful of chopped chives, pour it into 
a sauce-bowl, and send to the table. 

1368. Lobster Salad a la Boardman. Split lengthwise two very fine 
medium-sized, freshly boiled, and cooled lobsters; pick all the meat out 
from the shells, as well as from the cracked claws, suppress both intes- 
tines and pouch. Cut the meat into very small, equal, square pieces, and 
place them in a salad-bowl. Finely chop up, as fine as hashed potatoes, 
three hard-boiled eggs; add them to the lobster. Peel and chop, also very 
fine, two small, sound shallots, and add to the lobster, with one and a half 
teaspoonfuls of very fine freshly chopped chives and one and a half tea- 
spoonfuls of finely chopped parsley. Chop also, very fine, one root of 
thoroughly pared and well-cleaned sound celery (using nothing but the 
perfect white), add it to the lobster. Season with a light tablespoonful 
and a half of salt, a teaspoonful and a half of fresh, finely crushed white 
pepper, half a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, a tablespoonful and 
a half of olive oil, two tablespoonfuls of very good white vinegar. Mix 
well, then add three tablespoonfuls of freshly made mayonnaise sauce 
(No. 206). Gently but thoroughly mix the whole well together; wipe 
neatly the edges of the salad-bowl with a napkin. Plant right in the 
centre a branch of parsley-greens, and send to the table. 

1369. Game Pie a la LeviP. Morton. Take one fine partridge, one 
grouse, and one medium-sized rabbit ; pick, draw, and singe well. Thor 
oughly bone them. Place the fillets in a saucepan with one tablespoonful 
of clarified butter. Season with one pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, 
and a quarter of a pinch of thyme. Cook on a brisk fire for one minute 
on each side ; then add half a glassful of good Madeira wine, and reduce 
to one half, which will take five minutes. Place in a bowl and let thor- 
oughly cool. Chop up the bones into fine pieces ; place them in a sauce- 
pan with one medium-sized, sound onion cut into slices, a small carrot 
cut the same, one bay-leaf, three cloves, twelve whole peppers, and a 



388 THE TABLE. 



blade of thyme. Cook all together with one ounce of butter until it has 
obtained a light brown color ; then add one glassful of Madeira wine, 
half a medium-sized, sound lemon cut in slices, one quart of white broth 
(No. 99), and two ounces of gelatine. Let cook one hour. Then strain 
through a napkin or a fine sieve into a china bowl, and lay aside to thor- 
oughly cool. Chop up very fine a quarter of a pound of lean, raw veal, 
a quarter of a pound of fresh pork, and six ounces of larding-pork. Sea- 
son with one good pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper. Cut into dice- 
shaped pieces eight truffles, three ounces of cooked smoked beef-tongue ; 
mix well together, and it will be ready for use. Knead well together, on 
a marble table, wooden board, or in a vessel, half a pound of flour with 
four ounces of butter, then gradually add a gill of cold water, mixing well 
until it is a perfect dough, for five minutes at least without ceasing. Then 
place it in a cool place, and let rest ten minutes before using. Lightly 
butter the interior of an oval-shaped mold ten inches in length, six inches 
wide, and four and a half high. Place the mold in an iron roasting-pan. 
Roll out three quarters of the dough to one quarter of an inch thick, and 
with it evenly line the inside of the mold, taking special care not to make 
any holes in the dough. Cut some very thin slices of larding-pork, and line 
the dough all around with it. Then place one layer of the forcemeat and 
one layer of the game, and so on, until all is used. Make a hole with a 
teaspoon right in the centre down to half the depth of the patty (pate). 
Roll out the other quarter of dough to the same thickness, quarter of an 
inch ; cut a cover out oval-shaped, and with it cover the pate, making a 
small hole in the centre to connect with the other. Decorate the surface 
with leaves made out of the dough, glaze it with the yolk of one fresh 
egg and half a gill of cold water. Place in a moderate oven to cook for 
two hours. Remove from the oven. Put away in the ice-box for six 
hours. 

1370. Plombiere a la Hamilton. Beat up one and a half pints of 
sweet cream as in No. 1254. Let it rest for half an hour. Neatly pick 
one and a half pints of sound, ripe strawberries ; carefully wash them in 
cold water, then drain them on a colander. Transfer the whipped cream 
into another vessel with a skimmer. Briskly beat the cream again for 
two minutes. Mix in three ounces of powdered sugar, one teaspoonful of 
vanilla flavor, and half a gill of cognac. Mix the whole well together for 
one minute longer. Remove the wire whip, add the prepared strawber- 
ries, and with the aid of a wooden spoon gently mix for one minute. 
Pour the preparation into a well-cleaned, two-quart freezer, cover, and 
lay it into a pail ; fill the pail all around with broken ice (but no rock- 
salt), and let freeze for one hour. Have a fruit-stand ready, then with an 
ice-cream spoon dress the plombiere on the stand, giving a dome shape, 
and immediately send to the table. 

The above makes a delicious dessert, also, when served without being 
frozen. 

1371. Tutti-frutti a la Gen. Harrison. Line the interior of a three- 
pint melon-form with a pint of vanilla ice-cream (No. 1271). Cut four 



SUPPLEMENT. 389 



ounces of candied apricots into small pieces, also four ounces of candied 
cherries into halves. Mix these together. Evenly spread half the quan- 
tity of the fruits all around the ice-cream in the form. Carefully arrange 
a pint of raspberry water-ice (No. 1281) evenly around the fruits. Spread 
the balance of the fruits all around the water-ice ; then fill the form with 
a pint of pistache ice-cream (No. 1275). Tightly cover the form. Lay it 
in a pail with a layer of broken ice and rock-salt at the bottom, and then 
fill up to the surface with the same. Let freeze for one and a half hours. 
Unmold the tutti-frutti ; dress on a glass stand, and serve with the fol- 
lowing sauce : put in a vessel a pint of whipped cream (No. 1254) with 
two ounces of powdered sugar and a gill of maraschino. Beat the whole 
well together for two minutes. Pour it over the tutti-frutti, and immedi- 
ately send to the table. 

1372. Frogs' Legs a la Merrill. Neatly pare off the claws of half a 
pound of very fine, fat, fresh frogs' legs. Cut them into pieces at each 
joint. Place them in a saucepan on the hot range, with half an ounce of 
very good butter. Season with one pinch of salt and half a saltspoonful 
of red pepper. Cook on a brisk fire for five minutes, then add a wine- 
glassful of Madeira wine, with two finely minced truffles; reduce for three 
minutes. Crack into a bowl three egg yolks, add to it half a pint of 
sweet cream, beat well together one minute, pour it into the pan with the 
frogs, then gently shuffle the pan in opposite directions until the sauce 
thickens, which will take two minutes and a half. Pour into a hot soup- 
tureen, and serve. 

1373. Strawberries. After selecting and thoroughly washing the 
berries, fill the cans and cover with a twenty-five-degree syrup, seal up, 
and cook five minutes. Open the vent, to let hot air out, about one min- 
ute, then close the vent and put away. The best berries are in market 
between June 7 and 14. 

1374. Pineapple. The best pineapples (the sugar-loaf) come to 
market between June 15 and July 15. After selecting the ripest fruit, 
pare and cut all the eyes out, take the core out, cut in slices, and fill 
cans ; cover with a twenty-five-degree syrup ; seal up and cook twenty 
minutes. Open vent to let hot air out, close, and put away. 

1375. Asparagus. The best asparagus for canning is the Colossal, 
from Monmouth County, New Jersey, and the best time from May 12 
to June 12. After selecting the large, perfect spears, wash thoroughly, 
then scald about ten minutes, and after filling the cans full, cover with a 
light salt water, and seal the cans up, leaving the vent open; then cook 
ten minutes ; then close the vent and cook two and one half hours. Open 
vent to let the gas out, and close it again. 

1376. Rhubarb, or Pie-plant. After peeling and cutting the rhubarb 
in pieces about one "inch long, fill cans and cover with a light syrup, seal 
up, and boil five minutes ; open vent to let the air out, close, and put 
away. The best time is from May 20 to June I. 

1377. Cherries. The best cherry, the white Ox-heart, ripens between 
June 20 and July i. Select the fruit, fill cans, and cover with a twenty- 



THE TABLE. 



five-degree syrup, seal up, cook fifteen minutes, open vent, close, and 
put away. 

1378. Gooseberries. Select the berries when green, between June 
17 and July i. After filling the cans, cover with a light syrup, seal up, 
and bathe five minutes, open vent, close, and put away. 

1379. Currant Jelly. The best jelly can only be made before the cur- 
rants are fully ripe between June 25 and July 3. After scalding the 
currants well, press them through a flannel bag, and while the juice is 
hot, boil six or seven pounds of the best crushed sugar with one gallon of 
juice, watching closely until it attains the proper consistency; then pour 
in molds to cool. 

Another way to make a very delicate jelly is to boil one gallon of juice 
about ten minutes, and while boiling hot stir in eight pounds of granulated 
sugar, and keep stirring until all dissolved, then pour into molds. 

1380. Raspberries. The best time is between July 5 and 15, and pro- 
ceed same as strawberries. 

1381. Blackberries and Whortleberries between July 15 and August 
15. After carefully washing the berries, put on any degree of syrup you 
wish, as this fruit will make pies or do for the table. Seal up, and cook 
eight minutes; open vent, close, and put away. 

1382. Peas, Corn, and Lima Beans are so hard to keep that it is im- 
possible for a family to put them up. They require a greater heat than 
boiling water, and have to be cooked in a super-heated steam chest. 

1383. Egg-plains and Green-gages are best when nearly ripe be- 
tween August 15 and September i. After filling cans cover with a 
twenty-five-degree syrup and cook ten minutes, then open the vents, close 
and put away. 

1384. Tomatoes. Between August 15 and September 15, select 
thoroughly ripe tomatoes, scald them about two minutes in hot water, so 
that the skin will peel off very thin to leave the perfect shape of the fruit; 
then fill the cans as full as you can press them in; seal them and cook 
twenty minutes, then put away. 

1385. Peaches and Bartlett Pears. Last of August to last of Septem- 
ber, select ripe fruit; pare carefully; fill cans and cover with a twenty-five- 
degree syrup; seal up, cook twenty minutes, then open vent, close and 
put away. 

1386. String Beans are best in October. Select the small refugee 
beans; after taking strings off. wash and scald well; then fill cans with 
whole beans, and cover with a light brine. Seal up; cook one half hour, 
then open vent, close again, and cook three fourths of an hour more, then 
put away. 

1387. Apples. Newtown pippins are the best about November 15. 
Pare and quarter; take cores out; then fill cans and cover with any 
strength syrup required. Seal up, and cook five minutes, open vent, 
close and put away. t 

Six pounds of the best crushed sugar to a gallon of water will make 
a syrup of twenty to twenty-five degrees. 



S UPPLEMENT, 3 9 1 



1388. Tenderloin Broil a la Stanton. Prepare three fillets exactly as 
in No. 503, and one minute before they are cooked, lightly devil them on 
both sides ; then broil half a minute on each side. 

Chop very fine one small, well-peeled, sound shallot, place it in a small 
saucepan on the hot range with a teaspoonful of butter, fry for one min- 
ute; then add half a glassful of good white wine, and reduce to one half. 
Add one medium-sized, sound pickle, and one sweet pepper cut into small 
dice-shaped pieces. Season with half a pinch of salt and half a saltspoonful 
of red pepper; add half a gill of Spanish sauce (No. 151). Cook for one 
minute rather briskly, then pour the sauce on a hot serving-dish, dress 
the fillets over it; arrange six heart-shaped croutons (No. 133) around the 
dish, place a slice of truffle on top of each crouton, then a round slice of 
Spanish sweet pepper, cut with a tube, over each slice of truffle, and send 
to the table. 

1389. Filets Mignons a la Brown. Chop very fine one medium-sized, 
sound, peeled shallot, place it in a small saucepan on the hot range, with 
a teaspoonful of very good butter; heat well for one minute without 
browning; add half a wine-glassful of good Madeira wine, boil for two min- 
utes, then add half a teaspoonful of freshly chopped tarragon, one good-sized 
sweet pepper cut in small dice-shaped pieces, twelve stoned and stuffed 
olives, six whole mushrooms, and one artichoke-bottom, cut in dice- 
shape, also a gill of sauce Espagnole (No. 151). Season with half a 
pinch of salt and half a saltspoonful of red pepper. Cook for three min- 
utes and a half, then pour this garnishing on a hot serving-dish. Nicely 
dress over it six freshly cooked mignons filets as in No. 509, one over- 
lapping another; decorate the dish with six heart-shaped croutons (No. 
133), and serve. 

1390. Broiled Grouse a la Pomeroy. Prepare and broil three fine, 
tender grouse, precisely the same as for No. 854, but one minute before 
they are cooked, lightly devil them, and then gently broil again for half 
a minute on each side. 

Place in a small saucepan on the hot range one medium-sized, sound, 
peeled, and finely chopped shallot, with a tablespoonful of good butter; 
cook for one minute, then add two chopped mushrooms, one chopped 
pickle; moisten with a tablespoonful of English sauce; add alight tea- 
spoonful of English mustard; mix all well together. Season with half a 
pinch of salt and half a saltspoonful of red pepper. Cook for one minute 
and a quarter. Pour the sauce on a hot serving-dish, place the grouse 
over it, decorate the dish with six slices of broiled bacon (No. 754), six 
thin half slices of lemon; arrange six slices of truffles in the centre of the 
slices of lemon, and serve very hot. 

1391. Mazagran a la General Bngeaii. This will be found a superior 
and pleasantly stimulating summer beverage for ladies, as well as for the 
sterner sex. 

Prepare the same quantity of coffee as in No. 1349. Have six goblets 
half filled with clean ice, pour in the coffee, evenly divided; add a pony 
of good cognac- to each glass, mix thoroughly with a teaspoon, and serve. 



3Q2 THE TABLE. 



The above is a delicious and healthful after-dinner summer drink, and 
is enjoyed in nearly all the large cities of Europe, especially by military 
men, who prefer it to the usual after-dinner demi-tasse, or " gloria," as 
they call it in Paris. 

The name is derived from the village of Mazagran, Province d'Oran, 
Algeria, famous for a long and heroic siege in 1840, wherein one hundred 
and twenty-three French soldiers were victorious against twelve thousand 
Arabs. 

1392. Mazagran a la General Dufour. The same as above, only sub- 
stituting a pony of Swiss kirsch instead of cognac. 

1393. Smelts a la Van Volkenburg-h. Wash well, and thoroughly 
dry, eighteen fine, fresh Long Island smelts. Split them right along the 
backbone in the centre; remove the backbone of each. Season with a 
pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper; sprinkle them with half an ounce 
of flour, then place them in a pan with one ounce of good butter on the hot 
range, and fry for two minutes on each side, or until they obtain a good 
light brown color. Dress them on a hot dish; place in a pan one ounce of 
good butter, fry it until it becomes of a good nut-brown color; add to it a 
tablespoonful of vinegar, then pour over the smelts; decorate the dish all 
around with parsley-greens, and serve. 

1394. Tomatoes with Rice a la Watson. Wash in cold water six fine, 
red, sound, equal-sized tomatoes, wipe them dry, then cut off the top of 
each tomato (keeping them on a plate until needed); remove the seeds of 
the tomatoes with a vegetable-scoop. Season the inside of each with half 
a pinch of pepper and half a pinch of salt. 

Place them in a well-buttered pan. Place two ounces of well-picked 
rice in a cup or in a dish, add to it one teaspoonful of melted butter, 
half a medium-sized, sound, peeled, and finely chopped shallot; season 
with half a pinch of salt only, mix all well together, then put into 
each tomato one teaspoonful of rice; place the tops on as a cover, sprinkle 
a little clarified butter over, and then cover them with a well-buttered 
paper. Bake them in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. 

Thoroughly wash six large, fresh mushrooms. Cut off the stalks, chop 
up very fine half a sound, peeled shallot, as well as the mushroom stalks, 
place in a pan with a tablespoonful of good butter and two drops of lemon 
juice. Season with half a pinch of salt and half a saltspoonful of pepper. 
Cook five minutes, without browning, then add the mushroom-tops, with 
half a glassful of Madeira wine; reduce for two minutes; add now half a 
gill of demi-glace (No. 185); let cook for five minutes longer. 

Dress the tomatoes on a hot serving-dish, place one head of mush- 
room on top of each tomato, upside down, pour a little of the sauce over 
the six mushrooms, and the rest on the dish around the tomatoes; arrange 
a thin slice of truffle on top of each head of mushroom, and send to the 
table. 



HOW TO CARVE. 393 



HOW TO CARVE. 



THE art of cookery and carving is an old one. During the Roman 
Empire it was taught by professors in the schools, and had at that time 
attained a high standard. France leads all nations in the art of cooking 
and carving, although the United States is not far behind in this respect. 

Good cooking and carving go hand in hand. It is no trifle to prepare 
and cook a good dinner; but it is an easy matter to spoil the effect, if not 
the entire dinner, by negligent carving. 

The first and most important factor is a strong and very sharp knife. 

Chickens. Lay the roasted chicken (of three to four pounds) on its 
side. Stick your fork into the leg and lift it up, meanwhile holding down 
firmly the rest of the chicken. Then cut through the joint on the back; 
pressing the joint between the leg and second joint, cut through. 
Stick your fork into the wing so as not to interfere with the knife; cut 
through the joint and loosen the meat surrounding it; pull down with the 
fork and press firmly on the carcass with the knife. If done carefully, you 
can pull all the meat from the breast with the wing. Then cut each breast, 
crosswise, In half. Turn around, and proceed as in the first operation. 

Turkey. Cut away the leg the same as with a chicken. The leg of a 
turkey being larger than that of a chicken, it would be advisable to cut 
into slices the leg and second joint. After the leg is cut off, stick your 
fork into the breast-bone; hold the fork firmly with the left hand; then, 
with the sharpknife in your right hand, starting from the outside of the 
breast, proceed to cut, carefully, thin slices, until you reach the bone. 
Then turn, and proceed the same as before. 

Serve each person with a piece of the dark and a slice of the white meat. 

Should the turkey be stuffed, place a little of the stuffing on each plate. 
A capon, large chicken, or English pheasant should be carved the same way. 
. Partridges. In America only the breasts of the birds are generally 
eaten, the legs being strong and bitter. Stick your fork straight into the 
breast-bone; cut one slice from the outside breast; then cut close along- 
side of the breast-bone and around the wing, carefully pushing all the meat 
from off both breasts, one after the other. 

Grouse. The grouse is generally carved the same way as the partridge. 

Canvas-back Duck. The " King of Birds." The breast only is 
carved, served, and eaten. Stick the fork straight and firmly into the 
middle of the breast-bone. Commence from the neck down to the back, 
straight to the back-bone, and around the back; then from the point of 
starting, around the collar-bone. Cut the joint from off the wing. Com- 
mence cutting again from the point of starting; carefully and gently 
carving off the whole breast, so that no meat remains. Proceed precisely 
the same with the other side. When finished, there will remain only the 



394 THE TABLE. 



Red-head, black-head, mallard, teal, &c. , are carved the same as the 
canvas-back. 

Tame duck, duckling, goose, &c., are carved as a chicken, unless they 
are over four or five pounds, then they should be carved the same as a 
turkey or a capon. 

For small birds, such as squab, snipe, plover, woodcock, &c., no carv- 
ing is necessary, as they are generally served whole. 

Saddle of Mutton, Lamb, or Venison should always be carved 
especially for private families lengthwise first, on both sides of the spinal 
bone, then crosswise downward. Special care should be taken to stick 
the fork right in the centre of the saddle, and holding it firmly while carv- 
ing with a very sharp knife, and keeping as near the bone as possible, till 
down to the end on both sides. When all detached, cut it crosswise into 
small pieces of about half or three-quarters of an inch thick, and serve. 

Steak. Sirloin steak can be carved in various ways crosswise, 
lengthwise, in small or large pieces, as desired. 

When serving, the cut part should always be laid uppermost. I would 
suggest, though, carving it diagonally into six fine, even slices, till you 
reach the fat part. When carved this way it makes it look inviting, and 
has a beautiful effect. Always place a small piece of the fat on each plate 
when serving. 

Tenderloin, or Fillet. Fillet is carved straight, in as many pieces as 
desired, but when serving, the cut part should always be served the same 
as the sirloin, uppermost. 

Roast Beef. As soon as the rib-beef is roasted to perfection, as men- 
tioned in No. 527, remove it from the hot oven, place it always on a hot 
dish, with the rib-bones downward ; should it be crusty on top, cut off 
just a little from the surface, which is generally so hard that often it is an 
impediment in cutting the slices to the desired perfection. Stick in the 
fork-tines lengthwise, on top of the roast, near the edge, in a slanting 
manner, so as to avoid pricking the lean part of the roast and the result- 
ing loss of juice or blood; hold firmly the fork with the left hand, and with 
a large, sharp knife in the right hand, carefully cut, in even, small slices 
a quarter of an inch thick, right down to the rib-bones; gen.tly make a 
cut underneath, so as to have each slice separate from one another; 
then serve. 

Roasted Leg of Mutton. If practicable, when carving a leg of mutton 
a patent handle should be adjusted to the end bone, which would be a sub- 
stitute for the fork, and an avoidance of soiling the hands at the same time. 
Begin carving small, thin, even slices, about quarter of an inch in thick- 
ness, straight or diagonally down to the bone, till you come to the end 
bone, then lengthwise underneath to the end. On account of the much 
thinner meat on the other side of the leg, carve it diagonally, and serve 
one piece from each side. 

Roasted Leg of Lamb. Is to be carved exactly the same as the leg 
of mutton. 



CELEBRATED MENUS, 



MANY OF WHICH WERE PREPARED 



MR. ALESSANDRO FILIPPINI 



CELEBRATED MENUS. 



397 



SERVICE A LA FRANAISE. 

IER SERVICE. 

Consomme k la Colbert. 
Potage a la puree d'asperges vertes. 

Saumon k la Chambord. 
Ixjnge de veau a la Regence. 

C6telettes de presole a la chicoree. 

Pate chaud a la Toulouse. 

Filets de lievre a la Romaine. 

Cailles a la Dumanoir. 

2ME SERVICE. 

Galantines de dindes aux truffes. 
Faisans piques, rotis, bread sauce. 

Punch a la Romaine. 

Artichauts kl'Hollandaise. 

Champignons a la Bordelaise. 

Timbale de poires a la Duchesse. 

Bavarois d'abricots. 

Glaces et Dessert. 



SERVICE A LA FRANAISE. 

IER SERVICE. 

Potage a la Palestine. 
Consomme aux quenelles de volaille. 

Barbue, sauce Hollandaise. 

Punch Imperial. 

Gigot de mouton, braise. 

Cotelettes d'agneau a la puree de celeri. 

Ris de veau a la Toulouse, en croustade. 

Becassines a la marechale. 
Timbale d'homards a la Bechamel. 

2ME SERVICE. 

Quartier de chevreuil, sauce poivrade. 

Dindonneaux rotis. 

Souffle aux pommes. 

Cardons a 1'Espagnole. 

Fonds d'artichauts a la Barigoule. 

Gelee d'oranges a la mandarine. 

Croquante de Genoise a la creme framboisee. 

Glaces et Dessert.' 



SERVICE A L'ANGLAISE. 



Potage d'orge a la Princesse. 
Potage chasseur aux Grives. 



Soles bouillies, sauce percil. 
Longe de veau aux legumes. 

ENTREES. 

Faisans a la Perigueux. 
Pieds d'agneau, sauce tartare. 

Poulets aux Nouilles. 
Petites chartreuses a la Royale. 



SERVICE A L'ANGLAISE. 

POTAGES. 

Potage aux moules. 
Consomme a la Royale. 

RELEVES. 

Truites grillees, maitre d'h6tel. 
Bceuf sale aux legumes. 

ENTREES. 

Pate de poulets k 1'Anglaise. 
Cotelettes d'agneau a la Villeroi. 
Filets de chevreuil au macaroni. 
Panpiettes de soles a 1'Italienne. 



DEUXIEME SERVICE. 

ROTIS. 

Pintades r6tics, cresson. 
Selle de chevreuil piquee. 

BOUTS. 

Tartesaux framboises. 
Pommes meringuees. 

ENTREMETS. 

Artichauts, sauce Hollandaise. 

Cailles en chaudfroid a la Gelee. 

Bavarois au Cafe. 

Eclairs aux fraises. 

SIDE TABLE. 

Langue Salee Bceuf r6ti. 



DEUXIEME SERVICE. 

ROTIS. 

Grouses bardees . 
Chapon au cresson. 

BOUTS. 

Dampfrouilles k la Vanille. 
Pommes a la Richelieu. 

ENTREMETS. 

Chicoree aux oeufs poches. 
Salade de queues d'Ecrevisses. 
Bavarois aux noix fraiches. 
Jambonneaux en biscuit. 

SIDE TABLE. 

Noix de veau Langue Pate de Gibier. 



398 



THE TABLE. 



SERVICE A LA RUSSE. 



Creme d'orge aux ailerons. 
Consomme a la Dubarry. 

HORS D'CEUVRES. 
Croustades de riz au Salpicon. 
Bouchees a la puree de Gibier. 



SERVICE A LA RUSSE. 

POTAGES. 

Consomme printanier Royale. 
Potage, fausse tortue. 

HORS D'CEUVRES. 

Croquettes a la Patisienne. 

Bouchees a la Reine. 



Turbot, sauce Diplomate. 
Piece de Sandres frits. 

RELEVliS. 

Filets de boeuf a la Flamande. 
Noix de veau a la Godard. 

ENTREES. 

Escalopes de chevreuil, olives. 

Poulardes a la Perigueux. 

Galantines de mativiettes. 

Buisson de petits homards. 

Punch glace. 

ROTIS. 

Perdreaux rotis, sauce pain. 
Dindonneaux piques. 

LEGUMES. 

Truffes au champagne. 
Fonds d'artichauts, Italienne. 

ENTREMETS. 

Pouding de cabinet, marasqum. 

Charlotte de pommes, vanille. 

Gateau d'amandes a la chantilly. 

Gelee moscovite, garni. 

Dessert. 



Turbot a 1'Hollandaise. 
Truites, sauce Genevoise. 

RELEVES. 

Longe de veau aux Legumes. 
Filet de boeuf au macaroni. 

ENTREES. 

Pate-chaud de levraut, truffes. 

< 'anetons aux olives. 

Mayonnaises des homards. 

Timbale de faisans, a la gelee. 

Punch a la Romaine. 



Poulardes du IVfans au cresson. 
Selle de chevreuil, r6tie. 



Petits pois garnis de fleurons. 
Artichauts alaBarigoul. 

ENTREMETS. 

Pouding Saxon a la Vanille. 
Baba chaud a 1'ananas. 

Riz a 1'Imperatrice. 

Macedoine de fruits, marasquin. 

Dessert. 



FAMILLE IMPERIALE DE FRANCE. FAMILLE ROYALE D'ANGLETERRE. 

POTAGES. 

A la tortue. Consomme aux quenelles. 



POTAGES. 

Pot-au-feu. Pates d'ltalie. 

HORS D'OEUVRE. 
Petits pates au naturel. 

GROSSES PIECES. 

Saumon a la sauce Genevoise. 

Piece de bceuf a la Jardiniere. 

Rosbif garni de croquettes. 

ENTREES. 

Tete de veau en tortue. 
Petites timbales a la Valliere. 

Grenadins a la chicoree. 
Supreme de volatile aux pointes d'asperges. 

Chaudfroid de foie-gras. 
Salade de filets de soles a la ravigote. 

KOTIS. 
Faisans et chapons au cresson. 

ENTREMETS.. 

Artichauts frits. 

Choux-fleurs, sauce au beurre. 

Haricots verts sautes. 

Fpinards, au veloute. 

Charlotte Russe au chocolat. 

Timbale de poires a 1'ltalienne. 

Gelee macedoine de fruits. 

^Pains a la Mecque. 

Dessert. 



POISSONS. 

Turbot bouilli, eperlans frits. 
Soles a la matelote iMormande. 

RELEVES. 

Filets de bceuf aux nouilles. 
Poulardes a la Royale. 

ENTREES. 

Rissoles de volailles a la D'Artois. 

Mauviettes farcies au gratin . 

C6telettes de mouton a la Soubise. 

Epigrammes de volaille aux haricots verts. 

Fricandeau a la chicoree. 
Koudins de brochet, sauce .homard. 

ROTIS. 

Faisans, ptarmigans, ortolans. 

RELEVES. 

Beignets de griesz, pouding Nesselrode. 

ENTREMETS. 

Salsifis frits. Croque-en-bouche. 
Creme de riz au jus. 
Galantine de poulets. 
Petits babas chauds. 
Bavarois au chocolat. 



CELEBRATED MENUS. 



399 



FAMILLE ROYALE DE PRUSSE. 



Consomme de volaillc a la Royale. 
Potage tortue a la Franchise. 

HORS D'CEUVRHS. 

Tartelettes de nouilles au foie-gras. 
Cannelons a la puree de Gibier. 

POISSONS. 

Turbot garni, sauce aux huitres. 
Darne desaumon, sauce crevettes. 

RELEVES. 

Boeuf fume de Hatnbourg, legumes varies. 

Longe de veau de Pontoise. 
Tomates et cepes Provengale. 

ENTREES. 

Cotes de daimaux champignons, sauceVenaLson. 
Filets de poulets aux pointes d'asperges. 
Homards a la gelee, sauce Mayonnaise. 
Galantines de cailles aux truffes,sauce Cumber- 
land. 
ROTIS. 
Dindonneaux piques. Faisans Boheme. 

LEGUMES . 

Fonds d'artichauts a la Moelle. 
Petits pois a la Fran^aise. 

ENTREMET". 

Pouding souffle a li Vanille. 

Croutes aux cerises a la Montmorency. 

Charlotte printaniere aux fraises. 

Gelee moscovite, garnie d'ananas. 

Glaces. Compotes. Dessert. 



FAMILLE ROYALE D'lTALIE. 
Potage d'orge a 1'Ecossaise. 

RELEVES. 

Turbot a la Bordelaise. 
Noix de veau a la Gastronome. 

ENTREES. 
Poulardes aux pointes d'asperges. 

Cailles a la Richelieu. 
Aspic a la Dominicaine. 

LEGUMES. 

Ardchauts a la Barigoi- 

HORS D'CEUVRE. 

Jambon d'York a la gelee. 

Punch au Kirsch. 



Faisans piques. 

VenaZson a 1'Anglaise. 

Salades. 

ENTREMETS. 

Bavarois a la Florentine. 

Suedoise d'abricots a 1'orientale. 

Cussy a la Portugaise. 

Glaces aux Fruits. 



MAISON IMPERIALS D'AUTRICHE. 

MAIGSE. 

Potage de bisque a la Cardinale. 

Sardines a 1'huile. 

Aprische au Parmesan. 

Saumon du Rhin, Genoise. 

Omelette aux truffes. 
Chicoree garnie de filets de schill. 
Sarcelles roties, au jus d'orange. 

Salade melee. 

Pouding a 1'Anglaise. 

Creme au marasquin. 

Compote melee. 

GRAS. 

Potage Duchesse, quenelles. 

Chaudfroid de perdreaux. 

Cotelettes d'agneau, papillotes. 

Piece de boeuf a la Napolitaine. 

Polpetti et foie-gras, champignons. 

Emincee de chevreuil a la Russe. 

Chicor6e aujus. 

Poulets grilles. 

Olsons rutis au cresson. 

Salade melee. 
Gelee au champagne. 



FAMILLE ROYALE D'ESPAGNE. 

POTAGES. 

Creme de perdreaux a la Princesse. 

Consomme a 1'lmperatricc. 

Nouilles a la Mapolitainc. 

Xcrcs Sec, 

HORS D'CEUVRE. 

Petits pates a la Bechamel. 

Clidtea, ubria nd. 

RELEVES. 

Saumon garni, a la Royale. 

Jambon, sauce en Malaga. 

Madere de Carpenter. 

ENTREES. 

Timbale de foie-gras a la Montesquieu. 

Marsala de Sidle. 
Supreme de poulets aux truffes. 

THoraitt. 

Salade d'homards en Bellevue. 
Vi'n du Rkin. 

LEGUMES. 

Petits pols a la Francaise. 
Cdte-Rotie. 

ROTIf. 

Chapons garnis de cailles. 

Dinde en galantine. 

Ckampagne* 



4OO 



THE TABLE. 



FAMILLE ROYALE DE BELGIQUE. 



Bisque aux ecrevisses. 
Consomme Printanier. 

HORS D'CEUVRES. 

Petites bouchees aux crevettes. 
Croquettes de volaille. 

RELEVES. 

Turbot al'Hollandaise. 
Filet de boeuf a la Financiere. 

ENTREES. 

Ris de veau aux petits pois. 

Cailles a la Bohemienne. 

Filets de soles a la Venitienne. 

Mayonnaise d'homards. 

Punch au Kirsch. 



Asperges, sauce au beurre. 
Haricots verts a la maitre d'h6tel. 

ROTIS. 

Selle de sanglier, sauce venaison, 
Eperlans frits. 

PATISSERIE. 

Timbale de fruits. 
Pain d'ananas. 



FAMILLE ROYALE DE SUEDE. 

Potage al'Imperiale. 

Madere. 
Creme d'asperges. 

Xeres. 

Corbeilles de truffes a la Lucullus. 
Allouettes en caisses. 
Turbot a la mariniere. 

Chateau cFYquin, 

Saumon a la Regence. 

Train de chevreuil, sauce Venaison. 

Chapons, truffes. 

Ckdteau-Margot. 

Epigrammes d'agneau, puree d'artichauts. 

Ch dteau- Ro nzci n . 
Croustades de cailles, a la Talleyrand. 

Poulets r.ou,vcaux a la Reinc. 
Puree gelinottes a la C2artoriski. 

Tokay. 

Punch a 1'Imperiale. 

Becasses et faisans, r6tis, salade. 

Terrine de foie-gras de Strasbourg. 

Champagne. 

Asperges nouvelles, sauce au beurre. 
Fonds d'artichauts a la Lyonnaise. 

Vin d' Oporto. 
Timbales d'ananas a la Florentines. 

Chateau Laffite. 
Gelee de fraises a la Sultane. 

Clos- Vougeot. 
Plombieres, creme de noyau. 

Creinant, 

Croque-en-bpuche, Napolitaine. 

Corbeilles Viennoises, Compotes assorties. 

Constance, 

Dessert. 



FAMILLE ROYALE DE GRECE. 

POTAGES. 
Okra de Sterlets. Tortue de mer. 

HORS D'CEUVRE. 
Cromesquis aux truffes. Huitres grillees. 

RELEVES. 

Truites a la Chambord. Dinde a la chipolata. 

ENTREES. 

Supreme de perdreaux, aux truffes. 
Timbale de truffes au champagne. 

ROTIS. 
Gelinottes et Faisans. 

ENTREMETS. 

Creme d'ananas (sur socle) garni de patisserie. 
Glaces. 



FAMILLE ROYALE DE PORTUGAL. 
Potage tortue et consomme. 
Rissoles a la puree de Gibier. 

Rougets grilles, a la maitre d'h6tel. 

Jambon, sauce Madere. 

Petits pois. 

Poulets a la chevaliere. 
Cailles a la Porturjaise. 

Aspic de crevettes. 
Chaudfroid de becassines. 

Poulardes r&ties et ortolans. 
Salade. 

Asperges, sauce au beurre. 
Quartiers d'artichauts a la Lyonnaise. 

Abricots a la Conde. 

Gelee a 1'orange et Fruits. 

Glaces Variees. 



CELEBRATED MENUS. 40! 



FAMILLE ROYALE A'HOLLANDE. 

Potage lie a 1'Americaine. 
Consomme a la Colbert. 

Turbot, sauce Kollandaise et crevettes. 

Filet de boeuf a la Flamande. 

Endives aux ceufs poches. 

Dinde a 1'ambassadnce. 

C6telettcs de mouton a la Perigueux. 

Pain dc gibier aux supremes. 

Homards a la Remoulade. 

Petits pois a 1'Anglaise. 

Perdreaux ct chapons r&tis. 

Salade de tomates et polonaise. 

Croustade de riz a la Duchesse. 

Gelee a la clermont. 

Glaces. Dessert. 



HONNEUR AUX ENFANTS DE LA 
FRANCE. 

Banquet d'Adieu 

Offert a Mons. i'Amiral Reajneaud, 
Le 16 Novembre, 1863. 

Huitres. 
Potage puree de Gibier. 

VARIES. HORS D'CEUVRES. VARIES. 
Bouchees de Tortue. 

RELEVES. 

Saumon Portugaise. 
Fillet of beef a la Portugaise. 

ENTREES. 

Dinde, truffes a la Toulouse. 

Cailles, puree de celeri. 
C&telettes de Faisans aux champignons. 
Pates de Gibier. Galantine aux truffes. 

SORBET. 
A la Regence. 

ROTIS. 
Becasses. Canvas-back duck. 

ENTREMETS. 

Petits pois. Tomates farcies. Flageolets. 
Chou-fleur. 

SUCRES. 

Savarin Chantilly. Gateaux mille-feuilles. 

Charlotte Croque-en-Bouche. 

Fruits. Dessert assortie. 

Delmonico, 



4O2 THE TABLE. 



<< B A L L>* 

IN HONOR OF 

HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE PRINCE OF WALES, 

NEW YORK, OCTOBER 12, I860. 



JlTcnu. 



Consomme de Volaille. 

Huitres a la Poulette. 

Saumon. Truites. 

Au Beurre de Montpelier. 

Filets de Boeuf a la Bellevue. Galantines de Dindes a la Royale. 

Pates de Gibiers a la Moderne. Cochons de Lait a la Parisienne. 

Pains de Lievres Anglais Histories. Terrines de Nerac aux Truffes. 

Jambons de Westphalie a la Gendarme. 

Longes de Boeuf a 1'Ecarlate. 
Mayonnaises de Volailles. Salades d'Homards a la Russe. 

Grouse. 
Becassines. Becasses. 

Faisans. 

Gelees au Madere. Macedoines de Fruits. 

Cremes Franchises. Glaces a la Vanille et Citron. 

Petits Fours. Charlotte Russes. 

Peches, Poires, Raisins de Serre, etc. 

PIECES MONTIES. 

La Reine Victoria et le Prince Albert. 

Le Great Eastern. Le Vase de Flora. 

Silver Fountain, etc. , etc. 

Dflmonico. 



CELEBRATED MENUS, 



403 



DINNER BY THE CITIZENS OF NEW YORK, 

TO HIS EXCELLENCY 

<>< PRESIDENT JOHNSON, >> 
i 

IN HONOR OK 
His Visit to the City, Wednesday, Augtist ^9, 1866. 



llltmi. 



Consomme a la Chatelaine. 



Bisque aux Quenelles. 



Varies. 



HORS D CEUVRES. 

Timbales de Gibier a la Venitienne. 



Varies. 



Saumon a la Livonienne. 
Selle d' Agneau aux Concombres. 



POISSONS. 
RELEVES. 
ENTREES. 



Supremes de volaille a la Dauphine. 
Ballotins de Pigeons a la Lucullus. 

Filets de Canetons a la Tyrolienne. 



Fanpiettes de Kingfish a la Villeroi. 

Filet de Boeuf a la Pocahontas. 

C6telettes a la Marechale. 

Ris de Veau a la Montgomery. 
Boudins a la Richelieu. 



SORBET. 

A la Dunderberg. 



Becasses Bardees 

Petit Pois. 
Aubergines. 



Peches a la New York. 
Macedoine de Fruits au Curagoa. 
Bavarois aux Fraises. 
Creme aux Amandes. 
Reausejour au Malaga. 
Gateau Soleil. 



ROTIS. 

ENTREMETS. 



Ortolans Farcis. 



Tomates Farcies. 
Artichauts a la Barigoul. 

Abricots Siciliens. 
Moscovites aux Oranges, 
Gelee Californienne. 
Meringue Chantilly. 
Mille-feuilles Pompadour. 
Biscuiti Glaces aux Pistaches. 



Fruits et Dessert. 

PIECES MCNTEHS. 

Monument de Washington. Fontaine des Aigles. 



Temple de la Liberte. 
Casque Remain . 
Char de la Paix. 
Cassolette Sultane. 



VINS. 



Trophee Nationale. 
Colonne de 1'Union. 
Rotonde Egyptienne. 
Cornes d'Abondances. 



POTAGES. 

Amontillado 1824. 

POISSONS. 
Hochheimerberg. 

RELEVES. 

Champagne. 

ENTREES. 

Chateau Margaux '48. 
ROTIS. 

Clos de Vougeot. 

KNTREMETS SUCRES. 

Tokai Imperiale. 

DESSERT. 

Madere Faguart. 



404 



THE TABLE. 



CITY OK 

INAUGURATION DINNER 

TO THE 

RIGHT WORSHIPFUL THE MAYOR, SAMUEL AMESS, ESQ. 

Qtti November, 1869. 



Roederer's, Moet's, and Cliquot's 

Champagne. 

D. & J. Squat Hock. 

Claret. 

Sherry. 

Port. 

Bill of fart. 

POTAGES. 

Mock Turtle. 

White Oyster. 

Jardiniere. 

POISSONS. 

Murray Cod. 

Snapper. 
Fillet of Whiting. 



RELEVES. 



Boiled Turkeys, Financier Sauce. 

Roast Turkeys a 1' Alderman. 

Hams Braised a la Gelee. 

Roast Ducklings. 

Roast Fowls. 

Tongues Garnis des Legumes. 

Les Petites Pates aux Huitres. 
Les Karry de Volaille. 
Les Chartreuses des Legumes. 
Filets de Poulets a 1'Ecarlate. 

Cabinet Pudding. 
Gelee au Khum. 
Gelee au Citron. 
Gelee a 1'Orange. 
Gelee a la Victoria. 
Blanc Mange. 
Les Nougats Franchises. 
Croque-en-bouche. 
Gateaux Genoise. 
Corbules a la Chantilly. 
Canapes en Pyramid. 
Plum Pudding. 
Creme a la Vanille. 



ENTREMETS. 



Boiled Chickens, Celery Sauce. 

Roast Quarters of Lamb. 

Roast Goslings, Gooseberry Sauce. 

Pigeon Pies. 

Saddles of Mutton. 

Roast Guinea Fowls. 

Cotelettes d'Agneau aux Petits Pois. 
Vol-au-Vent au Ris de Veau aux Truffes. 
Croquettes de Volaille en Surprise. 
C&telettes de Mouton a la Reform. 

Creme au Chocolat. 
Creme aux Fraises. 
Creme a 1'Italiennc. 
Jamonge. 

Grosses Meringues au Creme. 
Vol-au-Vent de Pommes. 
Gateaux Napoleon. 
Pints d' Amour. 
Quadrilles a la Princes. 
Macaroni au Gratin. 
Pouding a la Nesselrode. 
Glaces. 



CELEBRATED MENUS. 405 



GIVEN BY SIR MORTON 
DELMONICO'S, OCTOBER jo, 1863. 



l\\tnn. 

HUITRES. 
Bar sac. 
POTAGES. 

Consomme Britannia. 

Puree a la Derby. 

Xeres J. S., 1815. 

VARIES. HORS D'CEUVRES. VARIES. 

Cassolettes de Foie-gras. 

Timbales a 1'Ecarlate. 

POISSONS. 

Saumon a la Rothschild. 

Grenadins de Bass, New York. 

Steinberger Cabinet. 

RELEVES. 

Chapons, truffes. 

Filet de Bceuf a la Durham. 

Champagne Napotton. 

ENTREES. 

Faisans h la Londonderry . 

C6telettes d'Agneau, Primariee. 

Cromesquis de Volatile, Puree de Marrons. 

Escalops de Canards, en Bigaradc. 

Rissolettes a la Pompadour. 

Turban de Pigeons a la Musulmane. 

Chateau Latottr. 

ENTREES FROIDES. 

Voliere de Gibier. 

Ballotins d'Anguilles en Bellevue, 

Chaudfroid de Robins a la Bohemienne. 

Buisson de Ris d'Agneau, Pascaline. 

Cotes Rdties. 

SORBETS. 

A la Sir Morton Peto. 

ROTIS. 

Selle de chevreuil, Sauce Porto-Groseille. 
Becasses Bardees. 
Clos de Vougeot. 

ENTREMETS. 

Choux de Bruxelles : Haricots Verts. 
Artichauts Farcis : Petits Pois. 

SUCRES. 
J'udding de^oires a la Madison. 

Tokai imperiale. 
Louisiannais a 1' Ananas. 

Gelee ds Fruits. 

Pain d'Abricots a la Vanille. 

Moscovite Fouette, Gelee k 1'Indienne. 

Vacherin au Marasquin. 

Couglakoff aux Amandes. 

Mazarin aux Peches Mousse a 1'Orange. 

Caisses Jardinieres. G laces Assorties. 

Fruits et Desseit. 

Rladere Faquart. 

PIECES MONTEES. 

Cascade Pyramidale. 

Corbeille Arabesque. 

Ruines de Poestum : L,e Palmier. 

Trophe Militaire : Come d'Abondance. 

Nougat a la Parisienne. 



4O6 



THE TABLE. 



COMPLIMENTARY BANQUET 

TO 

KNERAIv Iv A A r H A IVl , [> 

Late Consul for the United States of America, 

CRITERION HOTEL, IZTH OCTOBER, 1869. 



WINES. 

Roederer's, Moet's, and Cliquot's 

Champagne. 

D. &J. Squat Hock. 

Claret. 

Sherry. 

Port. 

Bill of fart. 

SOUPS. 

Mock Turtle. White Oyster. 

Spring. 

FISH. 

Snapper. Murray Cod. 

Fillet of Whiting. 

RELEVES. 

Boiled Turkeys, Oyster sauce. Roast Turkeys and Sausages. 

Bqiled Fowls and Celery sauce. Roast Fowls en Cresson. 

Roast Geese. Roast Ducks. 

Roast Saddles of Mutton. Roast Quarters of Lamb. 

Pigeon Pies. Raised Chicken Pies. 

Hams, Garnished. Tongues, Garnished. 

ENTREES. 

Ris de Veau a la Sultan. C6telettes d'Agneau au Petit Pons Vert. 

C&telettes de Mouton au T ornate. Vol-au-Vent a la Chevaliere. 

Filets de Poulet a la Royale. Turban de Quenelles de Volaille. 

Rissoles de Volaille a la Reform. Croquettes de Veau et Jambon. 

Petites Pates aux Huitres. Timbales de Macaroni a la Princesse. 

Fricandeau de Veau, Sauce de Tomate. Filets de Poulet a 1'Ecarlate. 

SECOND SERVICE. 

ENTREMETS. 

Cabinet Pudding. Macaroni au Gratin. 

Newmarket Pudding. Plum Pudding. 

Gelee aux Fraises. Gelee a la Victoria. 

Gelee au Vin de Marasquin. Gelee a 1'Orange. 

Puits d'Amour. Gelee Dantzic. 

Pommes Meringuees. Gateaux Genoise. 

Gateaux Napoleon. Tartlets a la Crfime. 

Cre'me a la Rose. Creme a la Vanille. 

Cre'me au Chocolat. Creme a la Fleur d'Orange. 

Corbules a la Chantilly. Creme aux Framboises. 

Canape's en Pyramid. Tourtes en Caramel. 

Gateaux a la Rutland. Gateaux, Neapolitan. 

Custards. 
Dessert, etc., etc. 



CELEBRATED MENUS. 407 



] B A L L . [> 

NOVEMBER 5, 1863, AT THE ACADEMY OF MUSIG. 
RUSSIAN FLEET. 

Rear-Admiral Lessoffsky, Russian flag-ship Alexander Weosky, 51 
guns. 

Capt. Kopytor, Russian screw frigate Peresvat, 48 guns. 
Capt. Bontakoff, Russian screw frigate Osliaba, 33 guns. 
Capt. Lund (or Lurd), Russian screw sloop Vitioz, 77 guns. 
Capt. Kremer, Russian screw sloop Variag, 17 guns. 



Ulrnu. 



HORS D CEUVRES. 

Huitres a la poulette. Huitres en marinade. Bouchees de gibier. 

Canapes de filets d'ortolans. Snit-mitch a la Russe. 

GROSSES PIECES. 

Saumons au beurre de Montpeiier. Truites a la Regence. 

Filets de boeuf a la Mazarin. Pates de canvas-back ducks. 

Galantine decochon de lait, garni de hatelets. Pates de gibier sur socles. 

Jambons de Westphalie a la moderne. Galantines de dindes aux truffes. 

ENTREES. 

Salades de volaille a la Russe. . Canetons a la Rouennaise. 

C6telettes de pigeons en Macedoinc. Bordures d'escalopes d'homards. 

Chaudfroid de filets de faisans. Aspics de filets de soles a la Victoria. 

Pain de gibier a la royale. Timbales a la renaissance. 

Terrines de nerac de pluviers. Becassines k la Geoffrey. 

ROTIS. 

Cailles aux feuilles de vigne. Becasses bardees. 

Faisans piques. Grouse. 

ENTREMETS, SUCRES, ET DESSERT. 

Savarins au Marasquin. Biscuits Moscovites. 

Gateaux de mille-feuilles. Babas glaces au rhum. 

Charlottes Siberiennes. Charlotte, New York. 

Meringues panachees et Vanillees. 

Gelee macedoine au vin de champagne. Pains d'abricots a la Beresina. 

Gelees Dantzic Orientales. Blanc manger rubane au chocolat. 

Gelees de poires a la marechale. Bavarois aux fraises. 

Gelees au madere. Biscuits glaces a la rose. 

Gateaux assortis. Petit-fours. Compotes. Fruits. 

PIECES MONTE ES ET GLACES. 

Pierre le Grand. Washington. 

Alexandre IT . Lincoln. 

Le berceau des palmiers. La rotunde d'Athene. 

La fontaine moderne. L'ermitage Russe. 

L'arc de triomphe. Cornesjutnelles d'abondance. 

Sultane a la Parisienne. Le pavilion des Aigles. 

L'aigle Americain. Le casque sur socle. Pouding Nesselrode. 

La lionne. 
Columbus. Corbeille jardiniere. Les Dauphins. 

Diane. Madeleines. Mousses aux amandes. 

Bombes spongade. Ceylaus au cafe. Vanille. Chocolat. 

Citrons et Fraises. 
etc. etc. etc. etc. 

Deltnonico. 



4o8 



THE TABLE. 



D 

DONNE PAR 

MME. JAMES GORDON BENNETT, 

LE 3 DECEMBRE, iSdi. 



MAISON DOREE. 

Hultres crues sur Coqtlilles. 

POTAGES. 

Aux huitres, 

Consomme a la royale. 

POISSONS. 

Saumon a I'lmperiale. Truite a la Regence. 

Croquettes de Pommes de terre. 

HORS D'CEUVRES. 
Petits pates a la Parisienne. Salade d'anchois, olives, sardines. 

GROSSES PIECES FROIDES. 

Hure de sanglier, sur socle a la St. Hubert. 
Chaudfroid de foies de Canards de Strasbourg aux truftes. 

Perdreaux a la Gelee. 

Roast Beef a 1'Anglaise. 

Jambons de Westphalie, ornamentes. 

Pates de faisans d'Ecosse en Bellevue. 

Longe de Boeuf a la Gelee. 
Selle de chevreuil et Gelee de Groseille. 

ENTREES. 

Coquilles de Volaille a la Montglas. 
C6telettes d'agneau garnies de pommes. 

Asperges. 

Boudins a la Richelieu aux truffes. 
Brochettes de foies de volaille al Anglaise. 

Petits pois. 
Punch a la Romaine. 

ROTIS. 

Canvas -back Ducks. 

Chapons, Truffes. 

Croute aux champignons nouveaux. 

Mayonnaise de Volaille aia Noc.oise. 

Dindes farcies au cresson. 

Cailles bardees au cresson. 

Choux de Bruxelles. 

Mayonnaise d'Homards a la Nelson. 

Ihiissons d'Ecrevisses. 

PIECES MONTEES ET ENTREMETS. 

Le Temple de la Paix. 
Gateau Napolitain sur socle. 

Nougats a la Parisienne . 

CorbeiUes de Meringues a la Chantilly 

Gelees d'orange a 1 Orientale. 

Macedoine de fruits. 
Creme renversee a la vanille. 
Gateau Chateaubriand sur socle. 

Croque-en-bouche Genoise. 
Charlottes Russes, a la modeme. 

Blanc Manger, Rubane. 
Mousses aux frambroises. 

Ladies' Kisses. 
Petits fours et Confiserie assortie. 

GLACES. 

" L'aigle Americain/'sur socle. 
" Pudding," a la Nesselrode. 
" Corbeille " de fruits a la Napohtaine. 
" Biscuits," glaces a la vanille. 

FRUITS. 

Raisins. Oranges. Pommes. 

Compote de Pommes a la Portugaise. 

Poires. 



CELEBRATED MENUS. 409 



ORANGE BOVEN. 



ANNIVERSARY DINNER 

OF THE 

ST. NICHOLAS SOCIKTY, 

AT THE 

ASTOR HOUSE, DECEMBER 6, 1852. 



Green Turtle. Macaroni with Cheese. 

FISH. 
Baked Cod, Italian style. Boiled Striped Bass, Hollandaise sauce. 

RELEVES. 
ROAST. BOILED. 

Turkeys, Giblet sauce. Partridges, with Sour Krout. 

Capons, Truffle sauce. Leg of Mutton, Dutch Style. 

Ham, Cherry-wine sauce. JLeg of Pork, with Cabbage. 

Beef, with Croquettes of Potatoes. Turkey, with Oysters. 

Venison, with Currant Jelly. Leg of Veal with Mushrooms. 

Chicken Pot-pie, Farmer's style. 

RELISHES. 
Olives. Pickles. Anchovies. Sardines. 

SIDE DISHES. 

Broiled Quails with Green Peas. Legs of Chickens, inform of birds, Soubise sauce. 

Lamb Chops with Mashed Potatoes. Curry of Veal, Indian mode. 

Fillet of Veal, larded, Gardiner's sauce. Small Cakes of Fish with Oysters. 

Breastof Chicken a la Conde. Fricassee of Chicken, Chevalier style. 
Vol-au-Vent, garnished with Veal and Celery. C&telettes of Halibut, German style. 

Oysters Baked in the Shell. Mayonnaise of Lobster. 

Chartreuse of Game, Madeira sauce. Turkish Pillau. 

COLD ORNAMENTAL DISHES. 

American Pate-de-Foie-Gras with Truffles. cheese, made of Veal in Jelly on a Socle. 
Bastion made of Fish, with Holland colors. Stuffed Chickens in form of a Fountain. 
Boned Turkey with Jelly. 

VEGETABLES. 

Plain Boiled Potatoes. Onions. Baked Mashed Potatoes, 

Cauliflower. Turnips. Baked Sweet Potatoes. 

Potatoes Fried, German style. Parsnips. " 

SMALL PLATES. 

Croquettes of Rice. Fried Oysters. 

GAME. 

Roast Canvas-back Ducks. Wild Goose. 

Red-head 1 >ucks. Wild Turkey. 

Brant. Wild Rabbits. 

KNICKERBOCKER DISHES. 

Rolletjies. Smoked Goose. 

Smoked Sausages. Spack and Applejes. 

Head Cheese. Krullers. 

Kookies. Doughnuts and Oly Kooks. 

PASTRY. 

Mince Pie. . Charlotte Russe. Swiss Meringues. 

Blanc Mange. Rum Jelly. Apple Pie. 

Poor Man's Pudding. 

ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONERY. 

Visit of Santd Claus. City Hall of New Amsterdam. 

Stuyvesant and his Dwelling. Knickerbocker Comfort. 

Washington Monument. Holland Pavilion. 

CONFECTS. 

Macaroons. Lady-fingers. 

Almond Cakes. Kisses. 

Vanilla Ice-cream. 

PRESERVES. 
Brandy Peaches. Ginger. Chow-Chow. 

FRUIT. 

Schnaps and Pipes. St. Nicholas Punch. 

Coffee. Anchovy Toast. 



CURIOUS MENUS 

OF 

VARIOUS NATIONS. 



CURIOUS MENUS OF VARIOUS NATIONS. 413 



M E N U 



THROUGH the courtesy of a gentleman who has for many years lived 
in Central Africa, and who has brought with him a young prince, son of 
one of the powerful chiefs of the Baaili tribe, to be educated in this 
country, the author is enabled to illustrate the habits and customs now in 
vogue in the Royal Kitchen there. 

As a rule, there is only one principal meal, which is eaten in the early 
part of the evening. It mostly consists of parrot-soup, roasted or stewed 
monkeys, alligator eggs (also well liked by Europeans), and birds of every 
description. They also have moambo or palm-chops, and fish. A great 
delicacy, so considered by Europeans and natives alike, is elephant's 
feet and trunk. They have somewhat the taste of veal, and have a very 
delicious flavor. To prepare them they dig a hole, about five feet deep, 
in the sand, and build in it a large fire. After the sand is thoroughly 
heated, the fire is removed, leaving only the ashes in the hole. They 
place the trunk and feet in this hole, covering them with leaves, and 
afterward with hot sand; they remain there about two hours, when they 
are considered done. 

* All carcasses of animals which are to be cooked, are placed on a block 
of wood, and pounded until every bone Is broken, care being taken not to 
tear or bruise the skin. They are then boiled or roasted on an open wood- 
fire, in hot sand or ashes, without removing the hide or feathers. 

The cooking is of a very inferior grade; the only spices used being 
salt and pepper. 

The kitchen utensils consist of common earthen or wooden ware. 

Very little time is taken for setting or decorating the table; knives, 
forks, napkins, &c., &c. , are dispensed with. 

All victuals are served in large wooden vessels. After the members of 
the chief's household and his guests have assembled, each person is sup- 
plied with a wooden spoon, and selects whatever he wishes out of the 
different vessels, using his hands in eating it. 

In the line of vegetables, they have also several dishes well liked by 
Europeans. N'gutti-N'sengo is a dish eaten all over Africa. It consists 
of egg-plant, small fish, somewhat like our sardines (N'sengo), and the 
roots of the cassava or manioca plant (called N'gutti), which have a 
knotty appearance, and often weigh as much as twenty pounds. 

As the latter contains poison, they soak the manioca in water for three 
to four days, to extract the poisonous substance. They are cut and 



414 THE TABLE. 



sliced, adding small tomatoes. All is placed in a vessel with water, and 
seasoned with salt and pepper, and boiled. Moambo,or, as the Europeans 
call it, palm-chops, is also a favorite dish. The palm-nuts are first boiled 
in water, until the pulpy substance loosens from the pit. 

Then the shell, which contains a very delicious oil, is placed in a 
wooden mortar and crushed to obtain the oil. Then whatever the meal 
consists of, meat, fish, mussels, &c., all is put in a vessel, adding the oil 
and the pulpy part of the palm-nut, also red pepper and salt, and is boiled. 

Roast or boiled squash (Loenge) is generally eaten with it. 

Sweet potatoes (M'balla Benga) are more farinaceous, and sweeter than 
ours, but do not taste so good. They are boiled or roasted in the same 
way as we do here. 

Bananas (Bitaebe) weigh about a half pound each, and are about fifteen 
inches long. When half ripe they are cut in slices, adding much salt and 
pepper, and are boiled in water. 

N'sensi is a little red bean, which is boiled in water without adding salt 
or pepper. 

Peanut bread (Chisulu): the peanuts are first roasted, then crushed. 
This mass is then rolled and put into the skin of a banana, adding a little 
pressure, forming it into a body. It readily retains this shape from the 
presence of the oily substance in the peanut. 



fttnttt. 
China. 



Bow Ha Mai. 
Boiled Prawns in Oil. 

Chow Chop Sucy. 
Bits of Pork Chops. 

Ham ob Dau. 
Preserved Eggs with Ducks' Gizzards. 

Ob Gau Bow Vo Toway. 
Ducks' Livers and Boiled Ham. 

Chow Ju Aw. 
Boiled Pork, Kidney ed. 

Show Ju N Gow. 
Roast Pork-tongues. 

Bow N Gwei. 
Cuttle Fish. 

Yen Wo' Gong. 
Bofled Pigeon Eggs and Bird-nest Soup. 



CURIOUS MENUS OF VARIOUS NATIONS. 41 



Bow Hai. 
Boiled Crabs. 

Bow Yu Chee. 
Boiled Shark Fins. 

Yuen Tsyai. 
Rice Cakes. 

Bow Ob. 

Duck-tongues and Mushrooms. 

Ju Tow N Gow. 

Fried Roofs-of-the-Mouths of Pigs. 

Chow Ob Jun. 
Ducks' Feet. 

Chow Gai Pien. 
Fried Chicken Wings. 

Lein Chi Gong. 
Lily-seed Soup. 

Hong Yin Gong. 
Almond Soup. 

Dein Som. 
Sweetmeats and Jellies. 

Yueh Biung. 
Mincemeat Cakes. 

Gwoy Zoo. 
Fruits. 

Kwoh Zuh. 

Seeds. 

Cha Sam Soo. 
Tea, and Rice Whiskey. 

As to the Chinese, at their formal dinners or feasts no menus are 
used. The bill of fare consists of an interminable list of dishes, and 
which has been arranged by the author in the form of a menu card. The 
tables are laden with such dishes as shark-fins, beche-de-mer fish, fish- 
soup, chicken-soup, duck-soup, rice, rice, rice, and tea, tea, tea, and tea ; 
not forgetting the edible birds' nests, candies, and cakes. One's appetite 
is almost taken away on entering a Chinese house at which a banquet is 
to be given the effect of burning incense and other vile herbs. The 
Chinese can be extremely polite. Champagne is a favorite drink among 
Chinese officials at the Treaty Ports, and is always brought out when 
they have a foreign guest. 



i6 



THE TABLE. 



Luimano. 
Fish Soup. 



Sashimi. 
Raw Sliced Fish. 



|)okol)ama fflnw. 
jJapan. 

Cha. 
Tea. 

Shirn. 
Bean Soup. 

Nizakana. 
Boiled Fish. 

Shiwoyaki. 
Roasted Fish. 

Muchitori. 
Boiied Vegetables 

Umani. 
Fish and Vegetables. 

Trubonomoni. 
Vegetables. 

Gozen. 
Boiled Rice. 

Tsukemono. 
Pickles. 

Shoyu. 
Sauce. 

Saki. 
Rice Whiskey. 

Cha. 
Tea. 



Ohira. 
Vegetable Soup. 



Teriyaki. 
Roast Fish. 



A most delicious sauce, called "Shoyu," which is the basis of Wor- 
cestershire sauce, is also used to give spice to the food. Throughout 
the repast the guests are served from time to time with " Saki," a pale 
liquor made from rice, and which tastes very much like sherry. It is 
served hot, and is a most insinuating tipple. In a large party you. are 
expected to exchange cups and drink with every one present. The result 
is that, in nine cases out of ten, you leave the house just a " wee bit fu'," 
as they say in Scotland. Like the Chinese, no knives, forks, or napkins 
are used " chop sticks" only. To smack your lips or belch during the 
feast is, strange to say of such a supremely polite people, not considered 
bad form. 



CURIOUS MENUS OF VARIOUS NATIONS. 417 



Corea Ulenu. 

Cha. 

Tea. 

Fou Yoon An. 
Finely Chopped Ham, with Eggs. 

Whey Sum. 
Bamboo Shoots, with Mushrooms and Beche-de-mer Fish. 

Chow Kai Goot. 
Dice-shaped Spring Chicken-bones, Served in Sweetmeat Pickles. 

Chow Lok Zeow. 
Finely Sliced Green Peppers, Fried with Cut Beef and Celery. 

Gow Jee. 
Finely Chopped, Spiced Pork, Wrapped in Thin Dough, then Steamed. 

Chow Mien. 
A Kind of Boiled Macaroni, Fried with Thin Strips of Chicken, Pork. Mushrooms, and Celery. 

Bing Lon. 
Betel-nuts Preserved in Rock Candy. 

Cha. 
Tea. 

Sam Soo. 
Rice Liquor. 

In Corea Chinese fashions are very closely followed. Greasy messes 
and appetite-destroying smells are their most characteristic features. 
The food is always conveyed to the mouth by the aid of " chop sticks," 
and during the progress of a meal the mind becomes catered to by an 
animated conversation. 



Kanaka JlUntr. 
djauwuatt Jslanbs. 



FISH. 

Raw Mullet Raw Gold-fish. Shell Fish. 

Broiled Taro. 



Chili Peppers. 
Small Onions. 

ENTRIES. 

Raw Liver. Roast Pig. 

Roast Fish. Stewed Taro. 



THE TABLE. 





VEGETABLES. 


Papaias. 


Cabbage. 
Sweet Potatoes. 




FRUIT. 


Bananas. 
Mangoes. 


Oranges. 
Apples. 
Kono Coffee. 



Taro. 



Guavas. 
Hawaiian Tea. 



LIQUOR. 

Ookulian (pronounced O-ku-le-on). 
Hawaiian Pipe of Friendship. 

Among the Kanakas, the food eaten for breakfast, luncheon, and dinner 
is about the same, and consists chiefly of the native dish called " POI," 
which is eaten whenever they (the Kanakas) are hungry. 

"POI" is made from a root called " Taro" and in shape and size 
resembles a raw beet, it has a dark skin, and the vegetable itself has a 
variety of colors pink, gray, purple, and white. 

The " Taro" is cooked in the ground, after the manner of a " New 
England clam-bake;" after obtaining the softness of a cooked potato it is 
peeled, and beaten with a large stone or iron, made, for that purpose, into 
a pulp. It is then mixed with water until it forms the thickness of paste 
(and which makes very good paste, as it is often used for sticking bills, 
etc., when a theatrical company arrives), and after standing for a few 
days, to allow it to ferment, it is ready to be eaten. 

The " Poi " is always eaten out of a "Calabash" (a large gourd 
about the size of a pumpkin), the natives always eating with their fingers, 
this being done by sticking the two fore-fingers into the "Calabash," 
giving it one or two twists, and dexterously turning it around in front of 
their. ..faces, until it looks like a ball of "taffy on a stick" (no pun 
intended). 

" Taro " is sometimes cooked and eaten like potatoes and is consid- 
ered very wholesome food. 

The next important dish is "Raw Fish" which are caught along the 
coast and eagerly eaten by the natives. Fish is also cooked in the 
ground, and is served on large leaves about the size of palm-leaves, 
called " Ti " leaves. Raw meat, raw liver, and a fragrant sea-weed form 
delicate side-dishes. . . , 

Coffee, within the last few years, has to a great extent been drunk as 
a beverage, but not so much as the Hawaiian tea, which tastes and smells 
like medicine. '' 

Vegetables are also eaten, but sparingly, comprising sweet potatoes, 
Irish potatoes, cabbages, etc. 

Fruit, the product of the Islands, is very much eaten and relished, 
such as guavas, mangoes, bananas, mountain-apples, oranges, etc. 

The Hawaiians when eating always sit on mats. All eat out of the 
same calabash. After eating, it is the custom to pass the pipe of friend- 
ship, which is a small pipe made from shades teeth. 



INDEX. 



BEEK. 



484, 
483, 
482. 

479. 

478, 
481, 
480, 

485, 
490, 

489, 
531, 
529, 
528, 
530, 
1359. 
526, 
502, 

501 

500, 

512, 

513, 

1389, 

1364. 



514, 
515, 
509, 

527, 
539. 
498, 
499. 
486, 

524, 
525, 
492, 
49L 
49 6 



Braised a la Bignon. 

er> daube. 

a la flamande. 

a la mode. 

a la morlaisienne. 

a 1'Orsini. 

a la Providence. 

Russian sauce. 
Corned, with kale-sprouts. 

and spinach. 

hash en bordure. 

au gratin. 

a la polonaise. 

a la zingara. 
Hamburg steak, raw. 

Russian sauce. 
Minced beef a la Catalan. 

a la portugaise. 

a la provenyale. 
Mignons filets a la Bernardi. 

a la bohemienne. 

a la Brown. 

a la Lorillard. 

marinated, Russian sauce. 

a la moelle. 

a la parisicnne. 

aux pommes parisienne. 

a la Pompadour. 
Roast. 

Roulade a 1'ecarlate. 
Sirloin pique, a la bordelaise. 

marrow sauce. 
Smoked beef a la creme, 
Steak, porterhouse. 

double. 

sirloin, a la bearnaise. 

a la bordelaise. 

aux cepes. 



494, Steak, duchesse. 

497, green peppers. 

493, a la moelle. 

j 495, a la parisienne. 

! 488, pie a 1'americaine. 

j 487, pie a 1'anglaise. 

541, Stewed beef, Dufour. 
540, a 1'egyptienne. 
543, a la marseillaise. 

542, a la turque. 

503, Tenderloin of beef, broiled. 

504, a la cheron. 

506, a la florentine. 
508, aux gourmets. 

505, a la nivernaise. 
1388, a la Stanton. 

507, a la Trianon. 

523, pique a la Bernardi. 

516, a la duchesse. 

521, a 1'egyptienne. 

519, a la Hussard. 

517, a la portugaise. 

518, a la provensale. 

522, a la Richelieu. 

520, a la Sevigne. 

532, Tongue of beef a la gendarme. 

535, i la jardiniere. 
538, milanaise. 
534, napolitaine. 
537, with risotto. 

533, sauce piquante. 

536, with spinach. 

544, Tripe a la bordelaise. 

545, a la creole. 
548, a la lyonnaise. 
547, a la mode de Caen. 

546, a la poulette. 



COFFEE, CHOCOLATE, AND TEA. 



1263, Coffee, essence. 
1348, how to roast. 
1349* how to make. 

1350, Cafe noir a 1'Alexander 

Great. 

1351, Cafe, au lait. 

1352, au lait a la St. Gottardo. 

1353, glace. 



the 



1354, Tea. 

!355. a la Russe. 

1356, Chocolate. 

1357, au lait a la George Wash- 

ington. 

1391, Mazagran a la General Bugeau. 
1292, ala General Dufour. 



419 



420 



INDEX. 



DESSERTS- 

PASTRY, JELLIES, ICES, PRESERVES, ETC. 



1207, Almonds, how to prepare. 


1184, Cakes, wheat. 


1169, Apples, with rice. 


1167, Charlotte, apple. 


1124, baked. 


1262, au cafe. 


1190, Batter, for fritters. 


1261, russe. 


1185, for frying. 


1168, small. 


1270, Blanc-manger a la Josephine 


1080, Currants, cleaning. 


Delmonico. 


1 200, Cream a 1'anglaise. 


1205, Cakes, allumettes. 


1258, au cognac. 


1224, almond. 


1259, au curagoa. 


1239, " fancy. 


1256, au kirsch. 


1208, " glaces. 


1257, au maraschino. 


1 21 1, apple. 


1260, en mousse. 


1216, baba. 


1253, " " au cafe. 


1217, " au madere. 


1255, " " au rhum. 


1218, " creme vanille. 


1242, patissiere. 


1235, biscuits, almond. 


1252, renversee. 


1234, " ambroisienne. 


1254, whipped a la vanille. 


1231, " cuillere. 


1176, Croustade of rice. 


1233, " livornaise. 


1313, Cup, champagne. 


1232, " Richelieu. 


1314, claret. 


1201, brioches. 


1 1 22, Dumplings, baked apple. 


1203, a la Conde. 


1127, boiled apple. 


1204, " fluttes, 


1126, boiled apricot. 


1 202, " small. 


1125, boiled peach. 


1183, buckwheat. 


1241, Eclairs, 


1236, chaussons. 


1244, au cafe. 


1246, choux a la creme. 


1243, au chocolat. 


1221, galette. 


1245, vanilla. 


1213, gingerbread. 


1191, Fritters, apple. 


1220, home-made. 


1192, vanilla. 


1231, lady-fingers. 


1269, glace, royale. 


1209, macaroons, bitter. 


1206, " for allumettes. 


1210, " sweet. 


1277, Ice-cream, banana. 


1226, madeleine. 


1286, biscuits glaces. 


1227, " printaniere. 


1287, biscuits Tortoni. 


1228, Milan. 


1299, charlottes glacees. 


1223, mille-feuilles. 


1300, charlottes panachees. 


1238, petites bouchees a la Mme. 


1272, chocolate. 


Astor. 


1273, coffee. 


1237, petites bouchees des dames. 


1278, lemon. 


1225, pithiviers. 


1290, macaroon. 


1193, pound. 


1298, macedoine a la Cavour. 


1222, rice. 


1301, meringues glacees. 


1230, rice a la Mazzini. 


1302, meringues panachees. 


1229, rum. 


1292, napolitaine. 


1197, savarin. 


1295, parfait au cafe. 


1199, " a 1'anglaise. 


1276, peach. 


1198, " hot. 


1275, pistache. 


1215, short, blackberry. 


1370, plombiere a la Hamilton. 


1214, " strawberry. 


1294, a la Kingman. 


1212, St. Honore a la Rose Del- 


1291, pudding a la Frances Cleve- 


monico. 


land. 


1195, sponge. 


1288, pudding a la diplomate. 


1196, waffles. 


1289, plum pudding i la Glad- 


1194, wedding. 


stone. 



IN)EX. 



421 



1274, Ice-cream, strawberry. 


1085, Pies, rhubarb. 


1371, tutti-frutti a la Genera 


1095, strawberry. 


Harrison. 


1342, Preserves, apples. 


1293, tutti-frutti. 


1387. 


1271, vanilla. 


1381, blackberries and whortle- 


1327, Jelly, apple. 


berries. 


1321, brandy. 


1347, cherries. 


1322, champagne. 


1377, 


1326, currant. 


1344, green-gages. 


1379. 


J 378, gooseberries. 


1319, kirsch. 


1340, peaches. 


1323, kiimmel. 


1385, 


1325, Marcella wine a la Castel- 


1341, pears. 


lar. 


1385, 


1324, Rhein wine. 


J 374> pineapples. 


1320, Jamaica rum. 


1343, egg-plums. 


1318, sherry wine. 


1383- 


1247, Meringues. 


1380, raspberries. 


1248, apple. 


1346, 


1249, a la Ch. C. Delmonico. 


1376, rhubarb. 


1251, a 1'helvetienne. 


1345, strawberries. 


1250, shells. 


1373. 


1266, Nougat. 


1152, Puddings, apple a 1'helvetienne. 


1267, pyramid. 


1151, apricot a la Richelieu. 


1182, Nouilles or noodles. 


1132, bread. 


1297, Oranges glacees a la Geo. Re- 


1164, cabinet a la Sadi-Carnot. 


nauldt. 


1166, caramel. 


1 1 86, Pancake, French. 


1146, chocolate. 


1187 " a la gelee, 


1147, cocoanut. 


1188, German. 


1154, custard. 


1189, " with apples. 


1135, Diaz. 


1076, Paste, feuilletage or puff. 


1129, diplomatic. 


1078, foundation. 


1137, English, baked. 


1077, f r pies. 


1144, farina. 


1079, Pastry-bag. 


1139, French a la Delmonico. 


1240, Pate-a-chou. 


1161, fruit. 


1331, Peach marmalade. 


1159, a la U. S. Granf. 


1083, Pies, apple. 


1145, Indian. 


1103, apple meringue. 


1157, lemon. 


1097, blackberry. 


1134, maraschino. 


1098, cherry. 


1155, Nelson. 


noi, cocoanut. 


1158, orange. 


1104, cranberry. 


1150, peach a la Richelieu. 


1090, fresh currants/ 


1148, pineapple a la Richelieu. 


noo, custard. 


1163, plum. 


1091, gooseberry. 


1143, rice. 


1093, green-gage. 


1130, rice and orange. 


1089, huckleberry. 


1140, sago. 


1086, lemon. 


1141, tapioca. 


1102, lemon cream. 


1142, vermicelli. 


1105, Martha Washington. 


1306, Punch a la Cardinal. 


1082, mince. 


1307, champagne. 


1092, peach. 


1312, a la Czarina, hot. 


1084, pear. 


1303, a la Lorenzo Delmonico. 


1088, pear, open. 


1310, a la francaise, hot. 


1087, pineapple. 


1311, a la francaise, iced. 


1094, plum. 


1305, kirsch. 


1099, pumpkin. 


1308, a la Lalla Rookh. 


1096, raspberry. 


1304, Roman. 



422 



INDEX. 



1309, Punch, en surprise. 


1337, Stewed plums. 


1170, Rice au lait d'amandes. 


I 33 prunes & la Dufour. 


1171, 1'Airolo. 


1338, quinces. 


1172, a la bonne femme. 


1265, Sugar, burned. 


1181, & la Conde. 


1264, " cooked. 


1296, & la Croce. 


1339, Syrups for preserving fruits. 


1173, & la Czar. 


H2o,-Tarts, apple. 


1180, a la frangaise. 


1108, apricot. 


1179, ^ 1'indienne. 


1119, blackberry. 


1177, with milk. 


ii n, cherry. 


1175, timbale, iced. 


1116, cranberry. 


1178, & la Turque. 


1 1 21, Frangipani. 


1081, Raisins, cleaning. 


1107, green-gages. 


1131, Sauce, anglaise & 1'orange. 


1114, gooseberry and currant. 


1328, apple. 


1113, huckleberry. 


1128, apricot. 


1106, peach. 


1165, & la Carnot. 


1109, pear. 


1153, Chaufausen. 


1115, pineapple. 


1329, cranberry. 


i no, plum. 


1133, cream. 


1118, raspberry. 


1219, cream & la vanille. 


1 1 12, rhubarb. 


1156, Daniel Webster. 


1117, strawberry. 


1136, Diaz. 


1174, Turban of apples. 


1 1 60, U. S. Grant. 


1285, Water-ice, apricot. 


1123, hard. 


1282, cherry. 


1149, kirsch. 


1279, lemon. 


1129, punch. 


1280, orange. 


1162, rum. 


1284, peach. 


1138, sabayon au madere. 


1283, pineapple. 


1332, Stewed apples. 


1281, raspberry. 


1335, apricots. 


1316, Water-melon, &. la Jose Paez. 


I 33b, green-gages. 


1315, k la Romero. 


1334, peaches. 


1317, & la Seward. 


1333. pears. 




BGQS. 


443, Eggs 1'alsacienne. 


1366, Eggs a la post. 


444, 1'aurore. 


436, en panade. 


416, a la bechamel. 


431, au parmesan. 


447, la Bennett. 


417, a la pauvre femme. 


432, a la bonne femme. 


433, a la paysanne. 


411, a la bourguignonne. 


445, a la polonaise. 


414, brown butter. 


422, a la provencale. 


427, with celery. 


434, a la regence. 


442, a, la chipolata. 


438, la reine, 


449, duchesse. 


446, Robert sauce. 


423, en filets. 


429, with tarragon. 


424, la finoise. 


419, & la tripe. 


418, au gratin. 


428, with truffles. 


448, & la Hyde. 


439, zl la turque. 


440, 1'imperatrice. 


415, au soleil. 


430, with livers. 


441, a la suisse. 


410, a la Livingstone. 


420, a la Vanderbilt. 


435. with melted cheese. 


421, & la valencienne. 


437, a la Meyerbeer. 


412, fried. 


425, au miroir. 


413, for garnishing. 


426, with mushrooms. 


458, Omelet, asparagus-tops. 



INDEX. 



423 



466, Omelet & la bonne femme. 


467, Omelet, raspail. 


477, celestine. 


470, regence. 


460, with cepes. 


476, rum. 


469, cheese. 


468, sardine. 


464, chicken liver. 


465, sausage. 


455, crab. 


461, smoked beef. 


453, crawfish. 


474, soufflee. 


472, a 1'espagnole. 


475, sweet. 


451, with fine herbs. 


456, tomato. 


459, with green peas. 


457, tomato a la provencale. 


462, ham. 


471, a la Vanderbilt. 


463, kidney. 


404, Poached eggs. 


476, au kirsch. 


405, Scrambled eggs. 


454, lobster. 


406, asparagus-tops. 


473, mexicaine. 


409, a la chicoree. 


452, oyster. 


408, smoked beef. 


450, plain. 


407, truffles. 


KIS H. 


341, Bass a la bordelaise. 


309, Halibut, boiled. 


343, a la chambord. 


310, steaks, maitre d'h6tel. 


342, .with white wine. 


357, Lobster a I'americaine. 


336, Bluefish a 1'icarienne. 


360, a la bordelaise. 


337, a 1'italienne. 


361, en brochette au petit sal. 


338, a la venitienne. 


364, broiled. 


340, Bouille-a-baisse a la marseil- 


363, broiled, ravigote sauce. 


laise. 


362, en chevreuse. 


301, Breaded fish; how to prepare. 


365, croquettes. 


391, Canape Lorenzo. 


366, cutlets, Victoria. 


377, Clams a la mariniere. 


358, au curry. 


300, how to serve. 


359, a la Newburg. "; 


376, stuffed. 


1358, a la Rushmore. 


389, soft shelled a la Merrill, 


367, stuffed. 


390, " " a la Newburg. 


329, Mackerel, broiled, maitre : 


352, Codfish, boiled, oyster sauce. 


d'hotel. 


345, bonne femme. 


331, aux fines herbes. 


346, picked-up. 


330, en papillotes. 


349, tongues, beurre noir. 


378, Mussels a la mariniere. 


350, " fried. 


379, a la poulette. 


348, " how to blanch. 


388, Oysters a la Baltimore. 


351, " a la poulette. 


385, en brochette au petit sal6. 


373, Crabs a 1'anglaise. 


382, broiled. 


370, deviled. 


299, a 1'Alexandre Dumas. 


371, a la St. Jean. 


380, fried. 


372, a. la St. Laurent. 


386, & la mali. 


369, soft-shelled, broiled. 


384, a la Pompadour. 


368, " " fried. 


383, la poulette. 


332, Eels, en matelote. 


298, how to serve. 


334, riormande. 


381, H la Villeroi. 


333, 4< a la parisienne. 


1367, a la Arthur Sullivan. 


335, how to blanch. 


375, Oyster-crabs fried. 


347, Fish balls. 


374, a la poulette. 


347, a la Mrs. Harrison. 


387, Oyster patties. 


398, Frogs, broiled. 


304, Salmon, Colbert. 


401, a 1'espagnole. 


364, croquettes. 


400, fried. 


306, la genoise. 


399, .a la poulette. 


303, oyster sauce. 



424 



INDEX. 



302, Salmon, en papillotes. 


394, Snails a 1'italienne. 


305, a la regence. 


395, a la provensale. 


307, rolled a 1'irlandaise. 


324, Sole, dieppoise. 


308, tails, broiled. 


322, fillets, Joinville. 


344, Salt Cod a la biscaenne. 


323, fine herbs. 


403, Sardines on toast. 


320, fried, sauce Colbert. 


392, Scallops, brestoise. 


319, au gratin. 


326, Shad , maitre d'hotel. 


317, a 1'hollandaise. 


327, with sorrel. 


321, a la Horly. 


328, vert-pre. 


318, normande. 


402, roe, with bacon. 


396, Terrapin a la Baltimore. 


339, Sheep's-head a la Creole. 


397, a la Maryland. 


325, Skate au naturel. 


397, a la Newburg. 


353, Smelts a la bearnaise. 


312, Trout a la Cambaceres. 


356, au gratin. 


313, a la Chambord. 


355, stuffed. 


315, with fine herbs. 


354, a la toulouse. 


314, maitre d'hotel. 


J 393i a la Van Volkenburgh. 


316, en papillotes. 


393, Snails a la bourguignonne. 


311, shrimp sauce. 



KO RC E M EATS . 



229, Forcemeat, American. 

226, chicken, 

225, chicken a la creme. 

clam. 

crab. 

godiveau. 



224, 
223, 
221, 



222, Forcemeat, lobster. 
228, partridge. 
227, quenelles of fish. 
220, sausage. 
218, Fumet of game. 
1372, Frogs' legs a la Merrill. 



QAME. 



891, Antelope chops, port-wine 

sauce. 
890, steak, Russian sauce. 

832, Canapes for roast game. 
875, Canvas-back ducks broiled. 
874, roasted. 

833, Croquettes a la Perigueux. 

839, Doe-birds, broiled. 

841, roasted a 1'africaine. 

840, a 1'americaine. 
838, plain. 

842, salmi & la gastronome. 
1369, Game pie & la Levi P. Morton. 

894, Gibelotte of hare. 

854, Grouse, broiled with bacon. 
J 39Oi & la Pomeroy. 

852, roasted, plain. 

853, a la Sam Ward. 

855, salmi a la parisienne. 

856, a la Walter Scott. 
857j a la florentin. 
858, supreme a la Richelieu. 

895, Hare fillets, poivrade sauce. 
893, civet & la francaise. 

892, roasted plain. 

845, Partridge, braised with cab- 
bage. 



847, Partridge, braised with celery 

sauce. 

844, broiled & I'americairte. 
843, roasted, bread sauce. 

849, chartreuse of. 

848, saute a la chasseur. 
846, h la financiere. 
851, supreme & la Godard. 

850, Perigueux. 

866, Plovers, broiled. 
865, roasted plain. 

867, salmi, maison d'or. 

863, Ptarmigan, broiled. 
862, roasted plain. 

864, salmi a la chasseur. 

836, Quails, braised, celery sauce. 
835, broiled with bacon. 

837, & la financiere. 
834, roasted plain. 

876, Red-head ducks, broiled. 

876, roasted plain. 

877, Reed-birds. 

869, Snipe, broiled. 

868, roasted plain. 

870, salmi a la moderne. 

860, Teal duck broiled. 

861, salmi la regence. 



INDEX. 



425 



859, Teal duck, roasted plain. 

878, Venison, saddle, currant jelly. 

885, chops, puree of chest- 
nuts. 

887, civet a la francaise. 

886, civet, poivrade sauce. 

888, civet & la parisienne. 

889, pie 1'americaine. 

879, steak broiled. 



881, Venison steak, Colbert sauce. 
884, - currant jelly. 

880, Londonderry sauce. 

883, mashed potatoes; 

882, puree of chestnuts. 

872, Woodcock broiled. 
871, roasted plain. 

873, salmi a la chasseur. 



254, Bouquet, how to prepare. 

143, Fine herbs cooked. 

144, raw. 

231, Garnishing Bayard. 

243, bordelaise. 
242, cepes. 

232, chipolata. 
247, & 1'ecarlate. 
246, financiere. 
238, Godard. 
241, gourmets. 
237. grecque. 

244, marrow. ' 
251, milanaise. 



249. Garnishing Montebello. 
230, mushrooms. 
!75K> normande. 

240, parisienne. 

245, & la Patti. 

235. regence. 
253, Robinson. 
252, rouennaise. 

236, St. Nazaire. 
248, Stanley. 

250, soubise. 
239, tortue. 

234, valencienne. 

233, Vanderbilt. 



HORS D'OEUVRES. 



285, Anchovies, Norwegian. 
284, in oil. 

280, on toast. 

270, Bouchees la reine. 
269, Canape Madison. 

281, Caviare on toast. 
291, Celery, frizzled. 
290, in glass. 

271, Coquilles of chicken a 1'an- 

glaise. 

272, of oysters au gratin. 
268, Cromesquis aux truffes. 

276, Croquettes, chicken, with truf- 

fles. 

278, foie-gras. 

277, of game. 

279, of macaroni. 

264, Croustades a la regence. 

265, de riz a la Victoria. 
289, Cucumbers. 

274, Lamb sweetbreads en caisses. 
287, Mortadella. 

275. Oysters en petites caisses. 



2 73, Oysters in shells al'anglaise, 

266, Patties a 1'anglaise. 

267. ortolans. 

292, Radishes, how to prepare. 

293, remarks on. 

257, Salpicon au chasseur. 
256, a la financiere. 

258, of lobsters, shrimps, &c. 

259, montglas. 
255. royale. 

260, sauce madere. 
283, Sardines in oil. 
286, Sausage de Lyons. 

261, Timbales a 1'lcossaise. 

262, de nouilles a la genoise. 

263, & la Schultze. 
282, Tunny-fish, pickled. 
288, Tomatoes, side dish. 

294, Welsh rarebit. 
297, au gratin. 
296, gherkin-buck. 
2 95 golden buck. 



INDEX. 



LAMB. 



675, Ballotin of lamb, with peas. 
702, Breast, jardiniere. 

674, Brochette a la Dumas. 

681, Chops a la Signora. 

682, 3 la Robinson. 

683, maison d'or. 

684, clichy. 

685, maintenon. 

686, Villeroi. 

687, Massena. 

679, Croquettes a la Patti. 

680, Croustades of kidneys with 

mushrooms. 

676, Curry of lamb, asparagus- 

tops. 
678, a la creole. 

677, a 1'indienne. 

690, Epigrammes of lamb a la 

chicoree. 

691, & la louisiannaise. 
689, a la macedoine. 

692, a la soubise. 

672, Fries a la diable. 

673, " tomato sauce. 

701, Haricot of lamb a la Provi- 
dence. 

700, Hashed lamb a la polonaise. 
713, Kidneys, with bacon. 



714, Kidneys, with cepes. 
712, Colbert sauce. 

715, deviled. 

585, Loin of lamb, roasted. 
688, Minced lamb a 1'anglaise. 

1360, Mignons of lamb, sauce bear- 

naise. 

693, Shoulder of lamb a 1'africaine. 
699, a la flamande. 

696, a la jardiniere. 

697, a la macedoine. 

694, a la puree normande. 

698, a la rouennaise. 

695, stuffed tomatoes. 

1361, Spring lamb, roasted. 

716, Lamb steak, puree of peas. 

717, sauce piquante. 

718, a 1'americaine. 

705, Stewed lamb, Lima beans. 

709, string beans. 
711, a la creole. 

707, aux flageolets. 
704, a la fran9aise. 

710, a la louisiannaise. 
703, oyster-plant. 

708, a la parisienne. 

706, with peas. 



MUTTON. 



645, Chops a 1'africaine. 

643, breaded. 

644, bretonne. 

646, napolitaine. 
642, a la proven9ale. 

647, soyer with potatoes. 

652, hashed a la zingara. 

653, " au gratin. 

661, Kidneys aux petit sal<\ 
663, sautes a 1'italienne. 

662, sauce madere. 

648, Leg, roasted plain. 

648, a la portugaise. 

649, a la Conde. 

650, bretonne. 

651, caper sauce. 



585, Loin, roasted. 

665, Saddle of mutton, Colbert. 

666, currant jelly. 

670, duchesse. 

668, Londonderry sauce. 

667, sauce poivrade. 

671, with potatoes. 
664, roasted plain. 

669, a la Sevigne. 

654, Sheep's feet a la poulette. 

655, Stewed Mutton, fermiere. 
660, Stew, Irish. 

657, marseillaise. 

658, portugaise. 

659, with potatoes. 

656, Solferino. 



INDEX. 



427 



PORK. 


754, Bacon, broiled. 


748, Pork chops, apple sauce. 


719, Black sausages, mashed pota- 


744, broiled. 


toes. 


747, a la diable. 


721, Ham, boiled plain. 


743, plain. 


753, broiled and fried. 


745, sauce piquante. 


722, for family use. 


749, puree of peas. 


723, roasted, champagne sauce. 


750, puree of potatoes. 


724, " corn a la creme. 


746, sauce Robert. 


725, " with spinach. 


752, Pork and beans. 


726, Pig's cheek, with spinach. 


751, roasted. 


734, Pigs' feet, boned. 


741, tenderloin. 


730, a la Boston. 


736, Sausages a 1'anglaise. 


729, sauce piquante. 


738, a la bourguignonne. 


731, a la poulette. 


739, with cabbage. 


728, sauce Robert. 


740, a la gastronome. 


727, St. Hubert. 


737, ft 1'italienne. 


733, stuffed, madeira sauce. 


735, with white wine. 


732, " Perigueux. 


720, Suckling pig, apple sauce. 


742, Pork Andouillettes. 




POULTRY. 


785, Chicken a la Maryland. 


771, Chicken saute, ft la marengo. 


784, with rice. 


773, ft la parmentier. 


781, fricasse a 1'americaine. 


777, ft la regence. 


780, a la reine. 


774, with tarragon. 


779, boiled ft la Providence. 


1363, ft la Ranhofer. 


756, broiled with bacon. 


787, supieme ft la Bayard. 


764, cromesquis ft la Richelieu. 


789, ft la Patti. 


765, a la reine. 


788, 3 la reine. 


760, croquettes a 1'ecarlate. 


790, ft la Rothschild. 


761. ft la Perigour- 


786, ft la toulouse. 


din. 


823, Duck ft I'Americaine. 


759, ft la Perigueux. 


824, roasted, apple sauce. 


758, , ft la reine. 


825, ft la rouennaise. 


762, croustade a la Dreux. 


826, salmi ft 1'americaine. 


763, of livers au ma- 


829, ft la bourgeoise. 


dere. 


828, ft la chasseur. 


794, curry a la creole. 


831, ft la marechale. 


793, a 1'espagnole. 


830, ft la montglas. 


792, ft 1'indienne. 


827, with olives. 


766, legs ft la diable. 


808, Goose, stuffed with chestnuts. 


769, livers, with bacon. 


815, Pigeon cutlets ft la Victoria. 


770, a 1'italienne. 


820, Squabs ft 1'americaine. 


767, au madere. 


818, ballotin ft 1'italienne. 


768, with mushrooms. 


817, broiled with bacon. 


783, pillau ft la creole. 


821, ft la chipolata. 


782, a la turque. 


822, en compote. 


757, pot-pie. 


819, en crapaudine. 


755, roasted plain. 


816, roasted, plain. 


778, saute a la bohemienne. 


809, Timbale of foies-gras, laga. 


77^, ft la bordelaise. 


dere. 


775, ft la chasseur. 


791, Turban of chicken ft la Cleve- 


1362, ft la Ch. C. Delmonico. 


land. 


77 2 ft 1'hongroise. 


795, Turkey ft 1'anglaise. 



428 



INDEX. 



799, Turkey, boiled a la Baltimore. 

796, celery sauce. 
798, egg sauce. 

797, oyster sauce. 
766, Turkey legs a la diable. 

800, Turkey roasted and stuffed. 
800, roasted plain. 

813, boned, a la prosperity of 

America. 

814, jelly, for boned turkey. 



806, Turkey breast a la chipolata. 
807, breast & la Robinson. 

802, hashed & la bechamel. 
805, hashed en bordure. 
804, hashed a la creme. 

803, hashed a la polonaise. 
801, hashed a la royale. 

810, vol-au-vent a la financiere. 
812, a la reine. 

811, a la touiouse. 



SALADS. 



1037, Anchovy. 

1038, Barbe de Capucine. 

1039, Beef. 

1040, Cauliflower. 

1041, Celery. 

1042, mayonnaise. 

1043, Chapon for salad. 

1044, Chicken. 

1046, Chicory au chapon. 

1045, plain. 

1047, Crab. 

1050, Dandelion and beet-root. 

1051, a la Contoise. 
1049, with eggs. 

1048, plain. 

1053, Doucette with beet-roots. 

1054, with eggs. 

1052, plain. 

1055, Escarole. 
1074, Herring. 
1036, Italienne. 



1075, Japanese. 

1056, Lamb-tongue. 

1059, Lettuce and cream. 
1058, and eggs. 

1057, plain. 

1060, and tomatoes. 

1061, Lobster. 

1062, a la Plummer. 
1368, & la Board man. 

1063, Macedoine. 
1073, Potato. 

1064, Romaine. 

1065, Russian. 

1066, Salmon. 

1067, Shrimp. 

1068, String-bean. 

1069, Suedoise. 

1070, Tomato, French dressing 

1071, mayonnaise. 

1072, Watercress. 



SAUCES. 



146, Butter, anchovy. 
150, crawfish. 
148, horseradish. 

lobster. 

maitre d 'hotel. 

ravigote. 
210, Sauce allemande. 
163, anchovy. 
168, apple. 

a 1'aurore. 

bearnaise. 

bechamel. 

bordelaise. 

bread. 

black butter. 

drawn butter. 

melted butter. 

nut-brown butter. 

caper. 



149 
145 
147, 



182, 
166, 

154. 
186, 
162, 
159. 
i57 
155, 
156, 
651, 



200, Sauce celery. 



212, 


Chambord. 


2O4, 


champagne. 


197, 


chasseur. 


icp, 


Colbert. 


I99 


crapaudine. 


181, 


cream. 


185, 


demi-glace. 


198^ 


diable. 


183, 


duchesse. 


189, 


duxelle. 


161, 


egg- 


I5i, 


espagnole. 


187, 


g6noise. 


170, 


green. 


196, 


hachee. 


160, 


hollandaise. 


164, 


horseradish. 


174, 


Indian. 



INDEX. 



429 



188, 


Sauce Italian. 


184, 


Sauce princesse. 


15*. 


lobster. 


209, 


remoulade. 


185, 


madeira. 


192, 


Robert. 


177, 


maitre d'hotel, liee. 


211, 


Russian. 


r 80, 


matelote. 


*93> 


salmi. 


206> 


mayonnaise. 


178, 


shrimp. 


169, 


mint. 


m, 


supreme. 


213, 


montglas. 


172, 


tarragon. 


202, 


mustard. 


207, 


tartare. 


195, 


napolitaine. 


205, 


tomato. 


175. 


normande. 


176, 


toulouse. 


173. 


oyster. 


167, 


trianon. 


165, 


percillade. 


152, 


veloute. 


191, 


Perigueux. 


179. 


venitienne. 


203, 


piquante. 


208, 


Victoria. 


194, 


poivrade. 


153, 


Villeroi. 


598, 


poulette. 


2OI, 


vinaigrette. 



SOUPS. 



5, Beef & 1'anglaise. 

6, & 1'ecossaise. 

8, Bisque of clams. 

9, of crabs. 
10, of lobster. 

1, Bouille-a-baisse. 

2, Brunoise. 

3, with rice. 

4, with sorrel. 

7, Busecca. 

65, Chicken & la Creole. 
64, & 1'hollandaise. 

68, with leeks. 
67, 1'okra. 

63, & la piemontaise. 

66, a la portugaise* 
62, la Richmond. 

69, & la turque. 
14, Chiffonade. 

132, for soups. 
13, Chowder, clam. 
12, fish. 

116, Consomme & 1'africainei 

117, a 1'andalouse. 

119, a 1'anglaise. 

1 1 8, celestine. 
128, chatelaine. 

120, Colbert. 
108, Deslignac. 
no, d'Orleans. 
114, Douglas. 

101, Dubourg. 
125, duchesse. 
112, Garbaldi. 
in, imperial. 

102, Massena. 
127. napolitaine. 

103, aux pates. 



126, Consomm6 Patti. 
113, princesse. 
109, printanier. 

121, printanier Colbert. 
124, printanier royale. 
loo, pure. 

129, aux quenelles. 
123, Rachel. 
115, renaissance. 
107, royale. 

104, semoule, or tapioca. 

105, semoule ^ la creme. 

106, Sevigne. 

122, suedoise. 

84, Cream a 1'allemande. 

72, of artichokes. 

70, of asparagus. 

77, of barley. 

73, of cauliflower. 

71, of celery. 

86, of celery 1'espagnole. 

82, of chicken. 

83, of game. 

88, of lentils & la majordomo. 

87, of lettuce. 

75, of Lima beans. 

74, Palestine. 

76, of cried peas. 

78, of rice. 

79, of sorrel. 

81, of sorrel, fermiere. 

80, of sorrel with rice. 

85, of turnips, 
u, Croute-au-pot. 

134, Croutons soufflees. 
133, for soup. 

25, Frogs & 1'espagnole, 

22, Giblets a 1'anglaise. 



430 



INDEX. 



21, Giblets with barley 


95, Potage a la McDonald. 


20, a 1'ecossaise. 


98, of rice a la maintenon. 


ig, with nee. 


97, a la Montmorency. 


16, Green turtle. 


94, i la Windsor. 


18, clear. 


45, Puree bretonne. 


15, how to prepare. 


91, of chestnuts a la jardiniere. 


24, Gumbo of crabs. 


48, Conde. 


23, with frogs. 


47, Crecy. 


28, Jardiniere. 


46, faubonne. 


27, Julienne. 


49, of green peas. 


36, Menestra. 


43, Jackson; 


32, Mikado. 


50, Mongole. 


17, Mock turtle. 


44, parmentier. 


30, Mutton with barley. 


89, of partridge a la Destaing. 


31, 2 1'ecossaise. 


90, a la gentilhomme. 


34, Mulligatawney. 


92, soubise with white beans. 


45, a la Delmonico. 


131, of chestnuts. 


37, Napolitaine. 


55, Russe. 


130, Onion. 


29, Shin of beef, liee. 


40, Ox-tail & 1'anglaise. 


41, Sorrel, asparagus-tops. 


38, with barley. 


42, with rice. 


39, & 1'ecossaise. 


56, Spaghetti with tomatoes. 


26, Oyster. 


61, Terrapin. 


53. Paysanne. 


60, how to prepare. 


54, Pot-au-feu 


58, Tomatoes a 1'andalouse. 


52, Printanier chasseur. 


57, with rice. 


51, grenat. 


59, with sago. 


93, Potage & la diplomate. 


33, Westmoreland. 


96, & la Dorsay. 


99, White broth. 


STOCKS. 


217, Chicken essence. 


140, Marinade, raw. 


216, Clear gravy. 


137, white. 


142, Court'bouillon. 


141, Meat-glaze 


215, Duxelle. 


138, Mirepoix. 


214, Fish broth. 


136, Roux, brown. 


219, Game. 


135, white. 


139, Marinade, cooked. 




VEAL. 


549, Blanquette of veal. 


637, Calf's head plain. 


553, & 1'ancienne. 


639, a la poulette. 


552, with nouilles. 


641, en tortue. 


550, la reine. 


640, & la vinaigrette. 


551, with peas. 


583, Calf's liver, braised, bour- 


591, Braised noix of veal en daube. 


geoise; 


590, & la Providence. 


584, broiled with bacon. 


596, Breast of veal & la milanaise. 


582, saute & 1'alsacienne. 


554, Brisotin of veal. 


580, & 1'italienne. 


555, a 1'ecarlate. 


581, & la proven9ale. 


556, nantaise. 


597, Calf's feet, naturel. 


557, Calf's brain, black butter. 


599, sauce piquante. 


559, fried, tartare sauce. 


598, & la poulette. 


558, a la vinaigrette. 


600, sauce remoulade. 


638, Calf's head & la Cavour. 


567, Curry of veal & 1'indienne. 



INDEX, 



43* 



562, Cutlets a la marechale. 

563, a la milanaise. 

560, a la Pagasqui. 
566, en papillotes. 
565, a la Philadelphia. 

561, a la St. Cloud. 

563, breaded, tomato sauce. 

564, broiled. 

569, Escalops of veal a la duxelle 

571, a la chicoree. 

572, a 1'italienne. 
568, plain. 

573, a la provengale. 

574, a la Richelieu. 

570, with stuffed peppers. 

5 79, Fricandeau a la morlaisienne. 

577, with sorrel. 

578, with spinach. 

589, Grenadins of veal a 1'africaine. 

587, a la chipolata. 
586, puree of peas. 

588, a la Sevigne. 
585, Loin of veal, roasted. 

576, Minced veal a la biscaenne. 

575, a la Catalan. 

595, Panpiette of veal a la duxelle. 
594, puree of chestnuts. 
593, a 1'ecarlate. 
592, a la faubonne. 

601, Sweetbreads, how to blanch. 
610, a la b^arnaise. 

602, braised. 
616, la Catalan. 



| 6n, Sweetbreads, aux cepes. 

I 617, a la Colbert. 

608, a la duxelle. 

603, a la financiere. 

614, a la Godard. 

612, aux gourmets. 

615, & la montglas. 

609, with mushrooms. 

613, a la parisienne. 

618, a la Pompadour. 

605, au salpicon. 

604, with sorrel. 

606, soubise. 

607, with spinach. 

622, coquilles u la cardinal. 
621, a la Dreux. 

623, a la reine.. 

620, croquettes with peas. 

619, & la Perigueux. 

629, Stewed veal, bourgeoise. 

632, a la chasseur. 

626, & la grecque. 

624, & la Marengo. 

630, with oyster-plant. 

631, with peas. 

627, a la portugaise. 

625, a la provengale. 

628, & la Solferino. 

636, Tendron of veal a la chipolata. 

635, a la morlaisienne. 

633, a la nantaise. 

634, with sorrel. 



VEGETABLES. 



896, Artichokes a la Barigoul. 

898, a la duxelle. 

903, a la florentine. 

899, fried. 

900, with sauce. 

897, stewed. 

901, stuffed. 

902, a la vinaigrette. 

904, Asparagus, sauce hollandaise. 
906, a la tessinoise. 

905, a la vinaigrette. 
1375, canned. 

966, Barley fritters. 
950, Beans panachees. 

910, Beet-roots, boiled plain. 

911, sautees au beurre. 

912, a la creme. 

922, Brussels sprouts au beurre. 

923, a la creme. 

917, Cabbage, blanched, 

918, with cream. 
920, for garnishing. 



921, Cabbage and pork. 
919, stuffed. 

931, Gardens a la moelle. 

927, Carrots and cream. 

925, Cauliflower with butter. 

926, au gratin. 

928, Celery a la bonne femme. 

929, with cream. 

930, a la moelle de bceuf. 

932, Chicory, cream sauce. 
934, for garnishing. 

933, with gravy. 

962, Corn, boiled. 

964, saut6 au beurre. 

963, a la creme. 

965, fritters. 
1375, canned. 

936, Cucumbers a la bechamel. 
938, for garnishing. 

936, a la poulette. 

937, stuffed. 

908, Egg-plant, broiled. 



432 



INDEX. 



907, Egg-plant, fried. 


999, Potatoes, hollandaise. 


909, stuffed. 


990, Italian. 


1365, Flageolets sautes au beurre. 


1013, julienne. 


976, Green peas a 1'ancienne mode. 


991, lyonnaise. 


978, 1'anglaise. 


985, maitre d'hotel. 


981, with bacon. 


998, mashed. 


979, a la bourgeoise. 


1014, en paille. 


980, with cream. 


986, parisienne. 


977, & la frangaise. 


997, quenelles. 


1034, Hominy, boiled. 


1007, a. la rice. 


1035, fried. 


ion, Saratoga. 


1033, Jardiniere. 


995, sautees. 


952, Lima beans. 


995, au beurre. 


1375, canned. 


1010, soufflees. 


954, Macaroni & la creme. 


992, stuffed. 


955, au gratin. 


1005, en surprise. 


956, a 1'italienne. 


1008, Windsor. 


958, la milanaise. 


951, Red beans a la bourguignonne. 


957, a la napolitaine. 


1015, Rice boiled, plain. 


1032, Macedoine of vegetables. 


1016, a. la Ristori. 


913, Mushrooms & la bordelaise. 


1017, Risotto a la milanaise. 


916, broiled on toast. 


1022, Succotash. 


915, sautes a. la creme. 


974, Sorrel au gras. 


914, on toast. 


973, au maigre. 


1030, Okras, boiled. 


924, Sourkrout. 


1031, sautes a la Creole. 


961, Spaghetti, au gratin. 


968, Onions, with cream. 


960, & I'italienre. 


969, fried. 


959, la napolitaine. 


972, for garnishing. 


940, Spinach a 1'anglaise. 


971, minced. 


939, blanched. 


970, stuffed. 


943, with gravy. 


1021, Oyster-plant, fried. 


942, maitre d'hotel. 


1019, & la poulette. 


941, vieille mode. 


1018, sautes au beurre. 


944, with sugar. 


1020, a la creme. 


948, String beans a 1'anglaise, 


1382, Peas, canned. 


947, au blanc. 


988, Potatoes 1'anglaise. 


945, blanched. 


987, & 1'anglaise a crfi. 


949, bretonne. 


989, with bacon. 


946, with cream. 


996, balls. 


1386, canned. 


1001, bignon. 


953, Stuffed lettuce. 


982, boiled plain. 


975, peppers. 


983, broiled. 


1026, Tomatoes a la Bock. 


1009, chateau. 


1025, broiled. 


997, croquettes. 


1029, la marseillaise. 


1006, duchesse. 


1024, la reine. 


993, fried. 


1028, roasted. 


looo, gastronome. 


1027, stewed. 


984, genevroise. 


1023, stuffed. 


1012, & la Hanna. 


1394, with rice a la Watson. 


1002, hashed. 


1384, canned. 


1003, with cream. 


967, Turnips, with gravy. 


1004, au gratin. 4 





RETURN AGRICULTURE LIBRARY 
TOjHi^ 40Giannini Hall 642-4493 


LOAN PERIOD 1 
2 HOURS 


2 


3 


4 

Rl 

2 HOUR BOOK 


5 

S E R V 

S MAY NOT BE RENEV 


6 

'E 

/ED BY PHONE 


DUE AS STAMPED BELOW 










APR 2 2 
















i 




































- 






t 









FORM NO. DD1A, 3m, 6'76 



UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY 
BERKELEY, CA 94720 



'^ 




s ^' 




ALBERT R. MANN LIBIRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 








-^^'^-~- - -~ . 


<s 




From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco, 1912. 






% Cornell University 
M Library 



The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/cletails/cu31924087318501 



THE TABLE: 

HOW TO BUY FOOD, HOW TO COOK IT, 
AND HOW TO SERVE IT. 




^ 



'\^^..o>4>c' 5T!jSs^-c-Z^"je'uff*cl'SBt*^ 



THE TABLE: 



How T& Buy Food, How to Cook It, 
AND How TO Serve It.  



BY 

ALESSANDRO FILIPPINI, 



NEW YORK: 

CHARLES L. WEBSTER & COMPANY. 

1889, 



Copyrighted, 1889, 

By CHARLES L. WEBSTER & CO. 

(All Rights Reserved^ 
\ 



PRBSS OF 
JtKKKinS & McCOWAH, 

Ku Centfe St., N.Y. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGZ 

Fac-Simile Letters of Filippini and Delmonico vi-vii 

The Pleasures of the Table 1-3 

Our Markets 4-7 

Varieties of Fish to be Found in the Markets During 

the Different Months 8-14 

Vegetables 15-17 

Water-melons and Musk-melons 18 

How to Set a Table i9> 20 

How TO Serve Meals ; 20-23 

Menus for Every Day in the Year 35-150 

Recipes 151-392 

How TO Carve 393> 394 

Celebrated Menus, Many of Which were Prepared by 

Mr. Filippini 395-409 

Curious Menus of Various Nations 411-418 

Index 419-432 


















^^ 



7-7^7>^^<a<? 



-^ . 



^ 






vi 






^//y- 



ciJo^-^ -^r^ui , 



^;^:^ 



a^-^y/Cd-^Si^. tX ^ 



^j-z^-e- 




^^ 



^ 



/ra*/. 



^-^a^C-^ "^ ^'^'^'-^ ^>^-^.<:..-'&-Z^ ^^,e. ^a. y,c,t.^StJe-t9t,/C~ 







THE TABLE. 



THE PLEASURES OF THE TABLE. 



THE pleasures of the table are enjoyed by all who possess good health. 
Nothing is more fascinating than to be seated at a well-served, well- 
cooked breakfast or dinner; and yet, of the immense number that 
enjoy the good cheer and luxuries of the table, how few, very few, 
there are who stop to consider the vexatious trouble our host undergoes 
when arranging the daily bill of fare. "Variety is the spice of life,"' 
but nowhere is it more important, aye, actually necessary, than in the 
getting up of a palatable meal. This pertains not only to the dining-room 
of a hotel of the least pretensions or to the so-called " grand" restaurant, 
but particularly to the family table. The writer has known a. gentle- 
man who presided over an immense restaurant, and daily provided the 
supplies therefor. He experienced no difficulty with any single part of 
his. business, yet when he came to arrange the details of his own family's 
meals, and attempted to practically fulfill them, he was puzzled and 
annoyed beyond description. And, after all, there is no place in the civil- 
ized world where the market for the supply of food is so well provided 
as in New York, both as to variety and excellence, and even as to luxu- 
ries. Educated as thousands of persons have been, in the art of dining, 
by the famous Delmonico and his able lieutenants. New York, perhaps, 
contains a larger number of so-called high-livers than any other city, i 

These "gourmands" (if you please), and their number is legion, have, 
with the aid of the excellent resources of the American market and the 
encouragement given to the culinary art of the period, brought the modern 
American table to virtual perfection. This is saying a great deal, inas- 
much as the famed restaurants of London, Paris, and Vienna have ever 
claimed a reputation and an ascendancy over others that seemed to form 
a part of history itself. 

But as times change, so we change with them. Westward the course 
of Empire sways, and the great glory of the past has departed from those 

I 



THE TABLE. 



centres where the culinary art at one time defied all rivals. The sceptre 
of supremacy has passed into the hands of the great metropolis of the 
New World. It has been the writer's good fortune to gain experience on 
this subject from his observations in Europe as well as in this country. 
He can state, without fear of contradiction,' that more first-class, well-fatted, 
and corn-fed cattle reach the markets of New York, than any other market 
, of the United States. Whenever a first-class article of beef is required by 
one of the inland hotels, they send to New York for it. 

Ask the ordinary travelei-, and he wijl tell you that a first-class steak, 
an "A T " chop, or prjme roast beef is a rara avis in hotels outside 
of New York. London has excellent mutton and good beef; that is all. 
Paris gives plenty of variety, but it is all of an inferior quality with the 
exception of veal, which is good. The same may be said of northern 
Germany, where, in addition, the larger hotels in Hamburg and Bremen 
are able to supply good steaks, the cattle in that country being of fine 
quality. 

Yet no American, accustomed to his prime beef at New York, can be 
pleased at any of these continental hotels, as he loses sight of his favorite 
roast and steak. 

At the extensive cattle yards of Berlin, which are under control of an 
excellent administration, and perfectly arranged, it was impossible, for 
instance, on a well-supplied market day to find a single dozen corn-fed 
young steers that would make good enough beef for first-class custom in 
New York. The bulk of cattle offered for sale was made ' up of oxen 
that had been overworked  they had horns bigger than themselves  ^and 
the remainder were old cows and bulls. 

Of the bovine family, the branch most celebrated for the good quality 
of beef is the Durhams or Shorthorns. It is only fifty years ago that 
the first were imported to this country from England, and so well have 
they prospered and multiplied that the finest and best specimens of the 
race are now found in these United States. They are now freely exported, 
at large prices, to, the mother-country, where they are highly prized for 
breeding purposes. There are farms in Kentucky, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, 
and even in Missouri and Kansas, that turn out annually from 300 to 1,000 
head of fatted, corn-fed cattle, from two to four years old, and weighing 
from 1,500 to 2,500 pounds per head. , 

As to mutton, this country is already beginning to occupy aU)osition 
second to none. We may probably not as yet surpass Englandun this 
respect, but we have learned a great deal on this subject during the past 
thirty years; hence the American breed of sheep has considerably 
improved. The quality and flavor of our mutton is improving to Uhat 
extent that a long time cannot possibly elapse before the prejudice now 
existing in favor of the English article must give way to the honisst 
acknowledgment that the American mutton, if not superior to, stands dt 
least fully on a par with, the English rival. \ 

Our farmers and agriculturists have learned a great deal on this ques- 
tion. They now know that, as to early lambs, for instance, the ewes 



THE PLEASURES OF THE TABLE. 



should be strong, and kept in good condition, so that they can supply the 
lambs with plenty of milk. They are now kept in a warm barn where the 
cold winds do not touch them, and where the sun can shine on them. 
They commence feeding them by putting a little bran in the lamb's mouth, 
so that it can taste it, and the lambs commence eating from a box 
separate from the sheep. They generally feed them with cracked corn or 
meal, and sometimes oats and corn ground together, with plenty of milk 
from the ewes. If kept in good order and well fed, they will be ready 
for market by the' time they are six to eight weeks old. After the month 
of June, lambs come from New York State  mostly from Dutchess County. 
They are turned out to graze on the hills, where some cracked corn and 
meal are put in the fields, so they can eat it at their pleasure. Many of 
the late sheep and lambs come from Canada. Two of the largest sheep 
ever sold in New York were raised by Mr. Vail, of Dutchess County, and 
sold by A. Luyster to Mr. L. Delmonico for the sum of $ioo. The 
two weighed, alive, 632 lbs., and dressed, 420 lbs. 

One of the leading questions that directly affects the American cuisine 
is the contest now progressing as to the transportation of animal food to 
the great Eastern markets. Heretofore live cattle were transported to, 
and slaughtered at, the places of consumption. This so - called home- 
slaughtering interest has within the past few years experienced great 
competition with the slaughterers of cattle in the far West, who have 
brought their meats to the Eastern market in refrigerator-cars. The 
great question now is: Which is the better way, and by which method are 
the public interests served the best, as well as the sanitary condition of 
this important article of food most improved ? 

There can be no doubt that, while this controversy lasts, the consumer 
has already been benefited, and the transportation of live cattle has already 
been greatly facilitated and improved. The quality of the meat does not 
depend upon the place where the animal is slaughtered, but it does depend 
upon the state of the animal's health when it is slaughtered. Let the 
cattle-cars be improved so that cattle can be transported without being 
knocked about and bruised, and let them be properly fed and watered 
while in transit; after making the long journey from the far West, let 
them be well rested and cooled off before slaughtering. 

The Western dressed-beef men will also have to be on their mettle in 
order to meet the exigencies of the times. Let them keep their wild 
prairie cattle and their scalawags out of the better markets, handle their 
beef carefully, keep it subjected to a uniform temperature of about 38 
Fahrenheit, discard all artificial preservative means, and all opponents to 
their interests will be bereft of argument. 



THE TABLE. 



OUR MARKETS. 



OUR markets contain an abundant supply of poultry and game of an 
exceptionally fine quality. For superior and palatable chickens 
We are recommended to those raised about the creameries of New 
Jersey. The hand-fed geese and ducks of Rhode Island rival in flavor 
and delicacy the . celebrated Caneton-de-Rouen, while the American tur- 
keys are famous the world over. To give any adequate idea of the quan- 
tity of game which comes from the vast feeding-grounds of this country, 
or to enumerate substantially every form in which, during the different 
seasons, game appears in market, would require too much space. 

No game is more highly prized or more eagerly sought after in Europe 
than our American canvas-back ducks, grouse and wild turkeys. It has 
become part of our history that during the late war twenty thousand 
turkeys were shipped by one firm in New York City to supply a Thanks- 
giving dinner to an army ; while at present so plentiful is the supply that 
but a few days would be required to secure double that number. 

Niear Rhode Island, on one farm of about fifty acres, twenty thou- 
sand geese, and as many ducks, are fattened annually for market. In 
Vermont and other cold localities during December, when turkeys are 
full grown and fattest, hundreds of tons of them are dressed, frozen hard 
in boxes, and preserved in that condition for use in the spring and sum- 
mer months; when freshly killed, turkeys are tough and unpalatable. 
Unless well experienced, the purchaser would do better to leave the 
selection of poultry and game to some reliable dealer, rather than depend 
upon " signs," which are at times deceiving. 

Spring chickens appear in market about May ; those hatched in incu- 
bators come somewhat earlier. They are very small, weighing about a 
pound each, and improve in flavor and richness as they increase in size. 
Tender chickens may be had almost the whole year, but they are not 
plentiful during the spring months. 

Capons are good from December until April. 

Young turkeys are first killed in September ; they are full grown and 
fattest in December, and remain good until spring, when they are super- 
seded by frozen turkeys. 

Geese and ducks are first brought to market in June, and, if they have 
been properly fed, are a great delicacy. They may be had through the 
summer, autumn, and winter months. Geese are called "green" until 
they are three or four months old. 

Guinea-fowls are best in summer and autumn, when young and fat. 

Squabs are in market the whole year. 



OUR MARKETS. 



The laws for killing and selling game vary somewhat in the different 
States, and sometimes in the different counties of the same State. Refer- 
ence is made principally in regard to the New York City markets. So 
great are the facilities for forwarding quickly by rail and steamer, that 
supplies of game are easily obtained from long distances ; and birds killed 
in southern Texas, or other remote places, may be served perfectly fresh 
on New York tables a few days later. The flight of birds is greatly 
controlled by the weather. An early or late season, or a wet or dry one, 
or even a cold wave, may hasten or retard them, and make game plentiful 
or scarce, fat or poor ; but an abundant supply of all kinds of game in its 
best condition is generally to be had in the months it is in season, as 
follows : 

Ruffed grouse, commonly called partridges, are in season from Sep- 
tember I to February i. 

Pinnated grouse, commonly called prairie-chickens, from September 
I to February i. 

Quails, from November i to February i. 

Woodcock are in the market from August t to February i, and are 
fattest in October. 

English snipe appear in the spring, and again in the autumn, when they 
are in their best condition, and are to be had in smaller quantities during 
the winter. 

Yellow-legged snipe, robin or red-breasted snipe, dowicher and black- 
breasted or winter snipe, also common snipe, are abundant in the spring, 
and again from July through October, when they are best. 

Upland, grass, or gray plover are in market through the spring and 
summer months, and are fattest in August and September, 

Doe-birds are to be had at about the same time. They are plover of a 
larger size, and are con^dered not inferior to any other. 

Golden plover, or frost-birds, are plentiful in the spring, and are in fine 
condition in September and October. 

Sora, or Virginia rail, are best in September and October. 

Reed-birds, or rice-birds, become very fat in August and September. 
When found among the reeds of New Jersey they are called reed-birds, 
and rice-birds when from the wild rice-fields of the South. 

Rabbits and hares are in season from November i to February i. 

Venison is in market from August i to January i only, and is good 
during that time. 

Antelope may be generally had through the autumn and winter 
months. 

Wild pigeons appear in the spring and autumn, but no longer in such 
immense numbers as formerly. It is only possible to obtain them for 
market when their " nestings " are near a railroad, which facilitates -their 
quick shipment. The young birds (wild squabs), taken from the nest, 
make a most delicious broil. 

Wild ducks, swan, geese, and brant are in season from September i 
to May I, The choicest of these are : canvas-back, mallard, teal, red- 



THE TABLE. 



head, widgeon, wood, brant, cygnet or young swan, goose when young 
and fat. 

English pheasants, English hares, and Scotch grouse are to be found 
in the New York markets in excellent condition during the winter months. 

The wild mongrel goose, which appears in our markets about Christ- 
mas-time, is, like the canvas-back duck, considered as one of the greatest 
luxuries, and exclusively American. 

The far-famed canvas-back du ck is also an exclusively North American 
species. Closely resembling in appearance and habits the red-head of 
America and the pochard of Europe, it is still quite distinct from and 
superior to both these species in the excellence of its flesh. It is found 
throughout North America, from the Arctic Ocean to Central America, on 
the interior waters and on both shores. Chesapeake Bay is the most 
noted ground for canvas-back ducks in the country, but they are espe- 
cially abundant in Southern California. They breed on the ponds, rivers, 
and lakes, from Oregon to the more extreme northern portions of the con- 
tinent. The canvas-back is without doubt the most sought after and 
widely known of all our ducks, and in localities where it can obtain the 
root of the Vallisneria spiralis (called by some tape-grass, and by others, 
incorrectly, wild celery), the food to which it owes the peculiarly delicate 
flavor for which it is so famous. As a highly prized delicacy, it stands 
without a rival. When, howevqr, it is obliged to content itself with a diet 
chiefly of animal food, or is not properly handled in the kitchen, it becomes 
merely a very ordinary table bird. The Vallisneria is not found on the 
Pacific Coast, but in many parts of the interior, and especially in the 
Chesapeake Bay. The canvas-back being an excellent and strong diver, 
brings from the bottom the Vallisneria by the roots ; these it bites off and 
swallows,while the red-head, black-head, and other ducks feed on the refuse 
grass, or occasionally a root snatched from the canvas-back. At times 
the water is covered with grass thus pulled up. By the middle of Decem- 
ber the canvas-back becomes so fat as to have been known to burst open . 
in the breast' in falling on the water. In New Orleans it is called ' ' canard 
cheval." The canvas-back is covered somewhat like the red-head, but 
there is no reason for the confusion which exists in the minds of so many 
people regarding the two species. A careful comparison of the following 
descriptions of the two birds will indicate well-marked differences by 
which they may always be distinguished. The cook of a Buffalo gentler 
man, when asked if she knew the difference between a red-head and a 
canvas-back replied, "To be sure! one has the head of a fool!" (meaning 
the canvas-back). 

J CANVAS-BACK. RED-HEAD. 

Feathers of the head short and Feathers of the head rather 
smooth. Male with head and neck long, giving it a puffy appearance, 
of deep chestnut color, the former Male with head and neck chest- 
sometimes quite blackish. Fore nut red. Fore parts of body, 
parts of body.wings and tail, black, wings and tail, black, under parts 



OUR MARKETS. 



under parts white ; back and sides 
whitish, waved with black, but 
the white predominates, and the 
black lines are faint and much 
broken up. Female everywhere 
duller in color than the male. 

Bill entirely greenish -black, 
longer than head, nearly as long 
as middle toe (without claw), nar- 
row, high at base, and nostrils 
medium. 

Iris red. 

The weight of a pair of good 
fat canvas-back ducks with feathers 
on will average six pounds. 



white ; back and sides whitish, 
waved with black, the dark waved 
lines unbroken. Female every- 
where duller in color than the 
male. 

Bill dull blue, with a black belt 
across the end, shorter than the 
head, shorter than the middle toe 
(without claw), broad, depressed ; 
nostrils within its basal half. Al- 
ways to be distinguished from 
other ducks by shape of the bill. 

Iris yellow. 

The weight of a pair of good 
fat red-head ducks with feathers 
on will average five pounds. 

The red-head duck is found in greater or less numbers throughout 
North America, on the Atlantic and Pacific coasts, breeding in high north- 
ern latitudes, and frequenting in winter the southern portions of the con- 
tinent as far as Mexico. The red-head is not common on the coasts of 
New England. During the winter months it abounds considerably along 
the south shore of Long Island, and is extremely abundant from this 
point south, especially at Chesapeake Bay and Currituck. Its flesh is 
excellent, and when it is enabled to feed on the well-known Vallisneria is 
almost fully equal in point of flavor to that of the canvas-back. The diet 
of the red-head is by preference vegetable, but in default of a sufficiency 
of food of this nature, they will, like other ducks, eat frogs, tadpoles, and 
various mollusks. In the West they feed largely on corn and wheat, 
which they glean from the fields, and on wild oats, the seed of the water- 
lily, and roots and leaves of other aquatic plants. 



THE TABLE. 



VARIETIES OF FISH TO BE FOUND IN 

THE MARKETS DURING THE 

DIFFERENT MONTHS. 



JANUARY. 



Live codfish \Gadus morrhua\. Haddock \Melamogramus agle finus\. 
Cusk \Brosmius brosme\ ; this belongs to the cod family, and although 
very little known, is an excellent table fish. Hake \Phycis chuss\ ; this is 
another of the codfish family, but inferior to any of the other varieties. 
Halibut \Hypoglossus vulgaris\. Small chicken halibut \Hypoglossus vul- 
garis]. Striped bass [^Roccus lineatus\. Eels [Arguilla vulghris\. Lobsters 
[ffomarus Americanus]; very scarce, and in poor condition. Fresh salmon 
[OiicorAync&us chouicha\ ; these salmon are caught in the Columbia River, 
Oregon, all the year round, and are shipped in refrigerator-cars, and 
received daily in the New York markets. Frozen salmon [Salmo salar]; 
caught in the Restigouche River in July, and kept in freezers. Turbot 
\Platysomatichthys hifpoglossoides\, coming from Newfoundland, are occa- 
sionally in market during this month. Frost-fish, sometimes called tom- 
cods \Microgdus tomcod\. Frozen fresh mackerel \Scomber scomirus]. 
Frozen Spanish-mackerel [Scomber omarus\. Pompano [Trachynottis caro- 
linus] ; a few 'occasionally in market, coming from Pensacola, Florida. 
Red-fish, or channel bass [Sciosna ocellata], caught in Florida. Sheep's-head 
[Diplodus' fobatocephalus\, from Florida. Gxouf&x \Epinephelus morio], 
from Pensacola ; a very good fish for boiling, somewhat like the red- 
snapper, but the meat is of a finer grain. Red-snapper {^Luijanus Black- 
fordi{\ has become a staple article in our markets during the winter. 
They weigh from two pounds upward, as much as twenty pounds each. 
It is good either boiled or baked, but most epicures prefer it baked. In 
selecting a fish, care should be taken not to buy one that weighs over eight 
pounds, as anything larger than that is apt to be tough and lacking in 
flavor. Shad \Clupea sopidisimd], caught in the St. John's River, in Florida, 
are to be had nearly every day during this month. Frozen bluefish 
[Pomatomus saltatrix], preserved by being kept in freezers since the pre- 
vious fall. Herring [C/upea harengus], from Nova Scotia. Skate, or ray- 
fish [Plerroplatea maclurd]. The demand for this fish increases every year. 
The American people begin to appreciate its many excellences. Probably 
the annual dinners of the Ichthyophagous Club, at which this fish is 
always served, have materially increased the popularity and demand for 
this fish. Rainbow trout [^Salmo irrided]. These fish were first marketed 
during the winter of 1885 and 1886, and they are one of the notable exam- 



VARIETIES OF FISH. 



pies of fish-culture, as the following brief history will show. Six years 
ago Professor Spencer F. Baird, then Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries 
for the United States, received a lot of eggs of the rainbow trout from 
California. He presented five hundred of them to the South Side Club, 
who have one of the most complete fish-cultural establishments in this 
State. These eggs were hatched and the fish raised in the preserves of 
the Club, where they increased to such an extent that the Club decided to 
send their surplus to market, and they have become very popular, and 
sell readily at one dollar and twenty-five cents per pound. The open 
season for these trout is from April to September. Salmon-trout, frozen 
\Salvelinus namaycusK\. Whitefish, frozen \Coregonus clupeiformis]. Pick- 
erel [Esox reticulatus], weighing from half k pound to ten pounds each, 
are very good during the winter months. Wall-eyed pike \Sticostedium 
vitreum\. Catfish \Ictalurus punctatus\. Smelts \^Osmerus mordax] are 
received from dififerent parts of. the East and North during this month. 
The choicest come from Maine and Massachusetts. Those coming from 
Canada are always frozen, and are inferior, and sold at a very low price. 
Green turtle. Diamond-back terrapin. Prawns, from South Carolina. 
Scallops. Oysters. The following are the best in this month : Blue 
Points, Shrewsburys, East Rivers, and Mill Ponds. Hard crabs. Crab- 
meat, fresh picked. Whitebait. Finnan haddie. Smoked salmon. 
Smoked halibut. Best boneless dried codfish. 

FEBRUARY. 

Live codfish. Haddock. Halibut. Striped bass. Eels. Live lob- 
sters. Fresh salmon. Frost-fish. Fresh Spanish-mackerel are found 
occasionally in market, coming from Pensacola, Florida. Pompano. 
Sheep's-head. Red-fish, or channel bass. Grouper. Red-snapper. White 
perch [Hoccus Americanus], from Long Island ; one of the best pan-fish 
that is found in market. Smelts, green, from Maine, Massachusetts, and 
Rhode Island, and frozen smelts from Canada. During the latter part of 
the month very choice smelts are received from Long Island. These fish 
are large, and are considered the best of all varieties of smelts received. 
Shad. During the latter part of the month they begin to come from North 
Carolina. These fish are oftentimes large, weighing six pounds each, and 
in flavor are equal to those taken in the Connecticut River. Herring. 
Skate, or ray-fish. Salmon-trout. Whitefish. Yellow perch [Ferca Amer- 
icana], Pickerel. Wall-eyed pike. Catfish. Green turtle. Terrapin. 
Prawns. Scallops. Oysters. Codfish tongues. Soft shell crabs during 
this month are in excellent condition, and are considered one of the most 
seasonable shell fish in market at this time. Hard crabs. Whitebait. 
Crab-meat, fresh picked. Finnan haddie. Smoked salmon. Boneless 
dried codfish. Smoked halibut. 

MARCH. 
Live codfish. Haddock. Halibut. Striped bass. Chicken Halibut. 
Eels. Live lobsters. Salmon, from the Columbia River. During the 



lO THE TABLE. 



latter part of the month a few fish are received from Nova Scotia, weigh- 
ing about eight pounds each, and are called Kennebec salmon by the 
tradesmen, although no salmon are caught either in the Penobscot or 
Kennebec rivers, Maine, until about the ist of May. Large flounders 
\Pseudopleuronectes Americanus], suitable for making fillet of sole. Spanish- 
mackerel. Pompano. Sheep's-head. Red-snapper. Grouper. Shad are 
abundant this month from North Carolina, and about the 25th or 30th of 
March they make their first appearance in the North or Hudson River. 
Herring. Skate, or ray-fish. Sturgeon [Acipencer stario].. Salmon-trout. 
Whitefish. Yellow perch. Pickerel. Cisco[Coregonus artedi]. Catfish. Wall- 
eyed pike. Green turtle. Terrapin. With the month of March closes the 
terrapin season, as after the ist of April it seems to be univerally con- 
ceded that the weather is too warm, and terrapin are not relished, nor 
does the palate crave them. Soft shell clams are still excellent this month. 
Prawns. Scallops. Oysters. Those known as East Rivers, caught on 
the north shore of Long Island, are considered best in this month. Crab- 
meat, fresh picked. Smoked haddock. Smoked salmon. Smoked halibut. 
Smoked mackerel. 

APRIL. 

Live codfish. Haddock. Halibut. Striped bass. Chicken halibut. 
Eels. Live lobsters. Tomcods. Salmon, fresh from the Columbia River. 
Salmon, fresh from Nova Scotia. Flounders. White perch. Fresh mack- 
erel. About the first part of April mackerel nlake their appearance on 
our coast, oftentimes in enormous numbers,, and are sold in the markets 
at prices so low as to make them the cheapest food of the season. Span- 
ish-mackerel and pompano are occasionally in the market from Pensacola, 
Florida. Kingfish [Menticirrus nebulosus] ; a few come into market from 
North Carolina. Sheep's-head, from North Carolina. Smelts ; with the 
close of this month the fish goes out of season. Red-snapper are to be 
found in market up to tlje 15th of April. Sea bass [Serranus airarius] ; 
a few occasionally come into market from Charleston, S. C. Shad increase 
in abundance from the North and Hudson rivers. Skate, or ray-fish. 
Bluefish [Pomatomus sa.ltatrix\ ; a few make their appearance, caught on 
the Florida coast. Brook-trout [Salvelinus fontinalis\. The open season 
for this fish commences April j. Salmon-trout. Whitefish. Pickerel. 
Cisco. Wall-eyed pike. Catfish. Green turtle. Prawns. Crayfish \As- 
tacus flumatilus\ are found during this month in the markets ; they are 
caught in the Potomac River. Scallops ; with the close of this month 
they are out of season. Oysters are generally better during the month of 
April than at any other time of the year, but, according to custom, with 
the close of this month the oyster season ends. Fresh frogs' legs during 
the latter part of this month are taken, and begin to make their appear- 
ance in market at prices of about sixty to seventy-five cents per pound. 
Codfish tongues. Hard crabs. Crab-meiat. Whitebait. Smoked had- 
dock. Smoked salmon. Smoked halibut. 



VARIETIES OF FISH. I I 



MAY. 

Codfish during this month is apt to be poor, as no live fish are 
brought to the New York markets. It is mostly fish caught off Nan- 
tucket and repacked in Boston, and from there shipped to New York. 
Haddock ; the same applies to this fish as to the cod. Halibut is 
in excellent condition this month, both large fish for steaks, and small 
chicken halibut for dinner fish. Striped bass. Eels. Lobsters. Black- 
fish \Teutogo onitis\. Salmon from Restigouche make their appear- 
ance about the 2oth of May. Oregon salmon continue to come during 
this month, although not in as good order as in previous months. 
Large flounders for fillet of gole are excellent this month. Fresh mack- 
erel. Spanish-mackerel and pompano from Pensacola, Florida. A few 
come to market from North Carolina during this month. Butter-fish 
\Stromateus triacanthus\ make their appearance in the market this month. 
Weakfish \Cyono5cion regale\ plenty and cheap. Kingfish from Long 
Island make their appearance during this month in the markets, and are 
an excellent fish, growing better each month till October, when they go 
out of season. Sheep's-head ; a few make their appearace from Long 
Island. Porgies \_Stenotom.us chrysops^ from Long Island. Sea bass during 
this month are abundant from Narragansett Bay. Shad from Connecticut 
is probably at its best this month. There is no doubt that shad from 
this river possesses a flavor superior to all others. Shad from the North 
River begin to get soft and are not in good condition. Bluefish ; there are a 
few weighing one and a half to two pounds each in market. Squid \Loligo 
peal(zi\ This is an article of food that Spaniards and Italians think a great 
deal of, but it is very little used by American people as yet. It has been 
introduced to the American public by the dinners of the Ichthyophagous 
Club, which is composed of a few gentlemen connected with the leading 
newspapers, and some eminent scientific men, whose object is to cultivate 
a taste and demand for those varieties of fish which are not generally sup- 
posed to be good edible food. Brook-trout under the existing law come 
into market on April i. Probably the finest flavored trout found on 
this continent are the wild brook-trout taken in the streams of Long 
Island. Cultivated brook-trout that are raised in ponds and preserves 
depend very much upon the character of their food as to what the flavor 
will be. Trout that are fed entirely upon chopped liver are usually flat 
and insipid to the taste. But trout that are fed upon small minnows or 
other fish-food, such as clams, larvae of insects, and small fish of any 
kind, are always more delicate in flavor. Salmon-trout and whitefish ; a 
few are found in market this month, but during warm weather it is very 
difficult to obtain them in New York City markets in prime condition. 
Carp \Cyprinus carpia]. These fish are now making their appearance in 
our markets in considerable quantities, having been introduced into this 
country through the instrumentality of Professor Spencer F. Baird, late 
United States Fish and Fisheries Commissioner, some eight years ago. 



12 THE TABLE. 



They have been distributed in nearly every State of the Union, and in the 
Southern States have grown larger, and are found in better condition, than 
they are in Germany, where the parent fish came from. The market is 
principally supplied now with fish caught in the Potomac River, weighing 
from two to fifteen pounds each, and are selling at present for twenty-five 
cents a pound ; but in the course of a few years there is no doubt that 
these fish will be sold for from ten to twelve cents a pound. Green turtle. 
Frogs' legs. Crayfish during this month come from Wisconsin. They 
are of very fine flavor, and are the best that are found in this country. 
Prawns from South Carolina. Crab-meat, fresh picked. Soft crabs grow 
more abundant during this month, and are in excellent condition. A very 
choice smoked fish is in season this month, called the roe herring, and by 
some of the grocers Under various names,, such as bloaters, Burlington 
herring, etc. 

JUNE. 

Codfish may be had, but not in good condition. Haddock may be had, 
but not in good condition. Halibut. Striped Bass. Eels. Lobsters. 
Fresh salmon from the Kennebec and Penobscot rivers, Maine, and from 
the Restigouche and other rivers in Canada, are very abundant this 
month, and are to be had at the lowest price during the season, selling 
oftentimes as low as fifteen cents per pound by the whole fish. Large 
flounders for fillet of sole. Blackfish. Fresh mackerel. Pompano. Span- 
ish-mackerel. Weakfish. Butter-fish. Kingfish. Sheep's-head. Porgies. 
Sea bass. Sturgeon. Shad from the Connecticut River are still in good 
condition, but with the close of this month go out of season. Bluefish are 
larger, sometimes weighing four to six pounds each, and are improving in 
quality. Carp. Skate, or ray-fish. Black bass \Micropterus dolomiet\ are 
in season from the ist of June until the ist of January. This is a very 
choice table fish; probably one of the best of the fresh water fishes. 
Crayfish. Frogs' legs. Soft crabs. Crab-meat. Whitebait. 

JULY. 

Cod. Haddock. Halibut. Striped bass. Eels. Lobsters. Kennebec 
salmon. Pompano. Restigouche salmon. Large flounders for fillet of 
sole. Blackfish. Fresh mackerel. Spanish-mackerel. Butter-fish; this 
is a small, sweet pan-fish. Weakfish. Kingfish. Sheep's-head. Porgies. 
Sea bass. Bluefish. Moonfish \Choetodipterus faber\. This fish is some- 
what similar in appearance to the sheep's-head, and is a very fine boiling or 
baking fish. Squid. Skate. Brook-trout. Black bass. Green turtle. 
Crayfish. Prawns. Frogs' legs. Soft crabs. Whitebait. 

AUGUST. 

Cod. Haddock. Halibut. Striped bass. Eels. Lobsters. Resti- 
gouche salmon. Kennebec salmon. Large flounders for fillet of sole. 
- Fresh mackerel. Spanish-mackerel. Bonito \Sarda mediterraned\. This 
fish is sometimes sold through the country as Spanish-mackerel, but it is 



VARIETIES OF FISH. I 3 

a very inferior fish as compared with the Spanish-maclcerel. Crevalle 
\Caranx hippos\. This fish is sometimes sold as pompano, but is a very 
inferior fish, as the pompano is one of the choicest fishes that we have in 
market. Butter-fish. Tilefish \Lopholatilus chavtaeleonticeps\. This fish 
was first discovered in our waters by the United States Fish Commission 
in i88o. It is very brilliant in color, but the meat is very coarse-flaked, 
and somewhat resembling the haddock in appearance and flavor. Lafa- 
yette [Liostomtts xanthurus], a small fish weighing about a quarter of a 
pound each, and a very desirable pan-fish. Sea-robins \Prionotus palmipes\. 
This fish is found very plentifully at this season of the year in the waters 
of Long Island, and was first introduced as a table fish by the Ichthyo- 
phagous Club some five years ago. It is a very fair pan-fish. Sea bass. 
Kingfish. Sheep's-head. Porgies. Bluefish. Moonfish. Squid. Skate. 
Brook-trout. Black bass. Catfish. Green turtle. Crayfish. Prawns. 
Frogs' legs. Soft crabs. White-bait. 

SEPTEMBER. 

Codfish. Haddock. Halibut. Striped bass. Lobsters. Eels. Sal- 
mon from Nova Scotia. During this mcrith the salmon advance very much 
in price, and with the close of the month fresh salmon caught on the 
Atlantic coast go out of season. Large flounders for fillet of sole. Black- 
fish. Fresh mackerel. Spanish-mackerel. During this month the Spanish- 
mackerel are in their best condition, being fat and of delicate flavor. Cero 
[Scomberomorus caballa\. A large fish, weighing from six to twenty pounds 
each, resembling the Spanish-mackerel in appearance, but not so fine 
flavored. Crevalle \Caranx hippos]. Pompano. Butter-fish. Tilefish. 
Weakfish. Lafayette. Porgies. Squid. Smelts make their appearance 
for the first time in the season during this month. Red-snapper are to be 
found in market this month, the first of the season. Grouper ; a. fish 
somewhat resembling the red-snapper in form, but of a darker red color, 
and similar in flavor to the red-snapper, and by a great many people 
thought to be superior to the red-snapper. Sea bass. Skate. Bluefish 
are in better condition, and in their prime during this month. Salmon- 
trout. Pickerel. Whitefish. Catfish. Wall-eyed pike. Carp. Green 
turtle. Crayfish. Prawns. Frogs' tegs. Scallops begin to come into market 
at this time, but are not quite so good as they are a month later. Hard 
crabs. Whitebait. Soft crabs are in better condition and of better flavor 
during this month than at any other time of the year. Moonfish. Butter- 
fish. Bonito. Sea-robins. 

OCTOBER. 

Codfish ; during the latter part of this month codfish are brought alive 
to the market. Haddock. Halibut. Striped bass. Eels. Lobsters. 
Blackfish. Columbia River salmon commence to come into market at this 
time. These salmon are what are known as the steel-head variety [Salmo 
gardneri]. They are not as fine flavored nor as much esteemed as those 
that are called chinooks, which come earlier in the season. Large 



14 THE TABLE. 



flounders for fillet of sole. Fresh mackerel. Cero. Spanish-mackerel. 
Pompano. Weakfish. Kingfish. Sheep's-head. Grouper. White Perch. 
Smelts. Red-snapper. Sea bass. Bluefish. Black bass. Salmon-trout. 
Whitefish. Yellow perch. Pickerel. Cisco. Wall-eyed pike. Green 
turtle. Carp. Terrapin are caught during every month in the year, but 
are not considered good for the table until the weather is cold, and with 
the month of October are first used on the table. Crayfish. Prawns. 
Frogs' legs. Hard crabs. Soft crabs are to be found in market usually 
up to the loth of October. White-bait. Scallops. Redfish, or spotted 
bass. This is n. Southern fish, and is somewhat similar in flavor to the 
striped bass, but not quite so good. 

NOVEMBER. 

Live cod. Haddock. Halibut. Striped bass. Eels. Lobsters. Sal- 
mon. Cusk. Blackfish. Fresh mackerel. Redfish, or spotted bass. 
Grouper. White perch. Smelts. Red-snapper. Skate. Black bass. 
Salmon-trout. Whitefish. Yellow Perch. Pickerel. Cisco. Shad. For 
the past two or three years, during the month of November, shad have 
been taken off the coast of Massachusetts in the nets along with the mack- 
erel. These shad are large, weighing five pounds each, and are very fat 
and of excellent flavor. Bluefish. This month usually closes the bluefish 
season, but during the months of December, January, and February they 
are found in market, but always are fish that have been preserved by 
freezing. Masquallonge \Esox nobilier\. This fish weighs from four to 
twenty pounds each, and is of the pickerel family, and considered the 
most superior in flavor to all the pickerels. Wall-eyed pike. Catfish. 
Green turtle. Terrapin. Crayfish. Prawns. Scallops. Frogs' legs. 
Hard crabs. Whitebait. 

DECEMBER. 

Live cod. Haddock. Halibut. Striped bass. Eels. Lobsters. Co- 
lumbia River salmon. Large flounders for fillet of sole. Turbot. These 
fish are caught' in extreme Northern waters. They are somewhat similar 
in flavor to the chicken halibut, but are black upon both sides. They are 
of a very peculiar flavor. Tomcods, or frost-fish. A small fish weighing 
about one-fourth of a pound each ; very sweet, and a desirable pan-fish. 
Cusk. Blackfish. Grouper. Smelts. yVvXVeXlMugU allmla\. A Southern 
fish, sweet and oily, and a good pan-fish. Red-snapper. Skate. Shad are 
received during this month from St. John's River, Florida. Black bass. 
Salmon - trout. ' Whitefish. Yellow perch. Pickerel. Masquallonge. 
Cisco. Wall-eyed pike. ' Green turtle., Terrapin. Crayfish. Frogs' legs. 
Prawns. Scallops. Hard crabs. Soft crabs. This is a different variety 
of crab than is found in the summer ; it is very much smaller, and of a 
brown color ; not equal in flavor to the soft crab found during the 
summer. 



VEGETABLES. 



15 



VEGETABLES. 



VEGETABLES are grown to such an extent in the South, and also in 
hot-houses in the North, that we may enjoy, even in the coldest 
winter weather, nearly every variety. 

The growing of vegetables in the South for Northern markets received 
its impetus through an incident which happened in a then well-known 
resort in New York. A party of gentlemen, among them a steward on 
one of the Southern steamers, were seated one day in January con- 
versing, when the steward, who was in the habit of bringing mint with him 
for this particular resort, ordered a mint-julep; this order, at that time of 
the year, created a little surprise, especially to one of the party, who was 
a dealer in vegetables. However, the matter was explained, and the 
dealer arranged with the steward to bring him some mint, together with 
whatever vegetables he could get, on each of his Northern trips. The 
demand for them increased so fast that a great many growers commenced 
to raise vegetables, so that the business has grown to vast proportions. 

The following information may be useful to those who wish to know 
at what season of the year certain vegetables may be had, and also where 
they may be had in their prime. 

Asparagus. The consumption of asparagus has grown so much dur- 
ing the past few years, partly, perhaps, through the recommendation of 
physicians, that it might be well here to give an idea as to where and 
when it is grown. It first makes its appearance in market from the 
middle of February until the middle of March, according to the condition 
of the weather. 

Occasionally it may be had during the winter from hot-houses, but of 
inferior quality. The first of out-door growth comes from Charleston, 
S. C, where there are a number of very large beds, and where it is grown 
very successfully, both as to quality and quantity. It is shipped from 
there to Baltimore, Washington, Philadelphia, and New York, arriving at 
the latter place by express in a little less than forty-eight hours after 
cutting. Although North Carolina is growing more every year, the next 
location where it is raised in quantities for market is Norfolk, Va. , the quality 
being of the best. We now reach our own vicinity  Oyster Bay and New 
Jersey. , The former place has long had the reputation of raising the finest 
asparagus, but as a great many of their beds are getting old, and not 
receiving the proper attention, they are fast losing their prestige to 
Jersey, where they are growing more and more every year, and of the 
very finest quality. Asparagus may be had at its best from the ist of 
May, until the ist of June; after this time it commences to run out until 
July first, when cutting is stopped. The demand has been so great for 



1 6 THE TABLE. 



the past few years that, although more and more is raised every year, the 
price advances instead of getting less, and for the large "Colossal" or 
" Delmonico " asparagus immense prices are paid. 

French artichokes may be had all the year round; the quality and 
size depend on the condition of the weather during their growth. Most 
of the supply is from France, but occasionally from California and the 
South. 

Jerusalem artichokes appear from the ist of October until June; they 
are always good. 

String beans can be had from the middle of February until December; 
they are in their prime during the spring and fall months. Occasionally 
we receive them in December and January from Havana, but they are not 
first-class. 

Lima beans, which are seldom shipped from the South, can be had 
from August until frost sets in; they are always good. 

Beets all the year round; best jn spring and summer. 

Cabbage all the year round; always good. The first new cabbage 
comes from Florida in March. During the winter large quantities of 
cabbages are imported from Denmark. 

Carrots all the year; the small young ones appearing in the spring. 

Chives can be had all the year round. 

Cucumbers all the year round. In the winter we get them from the 
hot-houses around Boston; they are of the very finest quality, although 
rather expensive. 

Cauliflower all the year round; we have them in January, February, 
and March from England and France, and in April and May from the hot- 
houses on Long Island. They are of fine quality at all seasons except 
during summer. 

Celery may be had in every month but May and June, but is best 
during the cold weather. It is being extensively raised in Kalamazoo, 
Mich. , for the past three or four years ; and as they raise it much earlier 
than we, and of good quality, it will not be long before we have it all 
the year round. 

Chervil may be had all the year round, but is usually poor during 
warm weather. 

Chicory we have from August until March;, best during fall and winter 
months; occasionally during February and March; a fine quality comes 
from France. 

 Com or winter salad (called by the French doucette, and by the Gernians 
fetticux) from September until warm weather sets in. It is purely, as its 
name indicates, a winter salad, as it never grows in the summer. 

Cress all the year round; best in the spring. 

Dandelion from January i to June. 

Escarolle salad from August until March. 

Egg-plant all the year round ; scarce during winter.. 

Garlic all the year round; in large quantities for the past two or three 
years during May, June, and July, from New Orleans. 



VEGETABLES. 1 7 



Herbs, such as thyme, sage, sweet basil, borage, dill, lavender, 
sweet-fennel, sweet- marjoram, rosemary, summer-savory, tansy, etc., 
may be had green in the summer and fall, and dry during the balance 
of the year. 

Kohl-rabi from May until November.' 

Knot celery from September until May. 

Leeks all the year round. 

Lettuce can be had all the year round. In the winter it comes from 
the hot-houses of Boston, Providence, Long Island, and Jersey, but princi- 
pally from Providence, as that city for the past few years, has made a 
business of growing lettuce for the New York market. It is best in the 
fall and spring. It is almost impossible to grow good lettuce in the 
summer, for, should it head at all, the warm weather would rot it. 

Mint can be had nearly all the year round; scarce during December 
and January. 

Mushrooms can be had all the year round ; they are raised principally 
in cellars and hot-houses on Long Island, and the demand for them 
increases yearly. The people are gradually getting over the fear they 
>once had of the poisonous toad-stools, of which, by the way, there is no 
danger now, as the mushrooms are carefully picked and sent to market 
by men who understand the business. They are scarce during the very 
warm weather. 

Oyster-plant can be had from September until June. 

Okra appears all the year round; in the winter and spring it comes 
from Havana. 

Parsley all the year round. 

Onions may be had all the year round. 

Green peppers all the year round. In winter we get them from 
Havana. 

Potatoes all the year round. There need be but little fear of a potato- 
famine. During the past few years, when our own crop has been light, 
large quantities were imported from England, Ireland, Scotland, and 
Germany. The first new potatoes come from Bermuda about April i. 

Sweet potatoes from August until June. 

Peas from March until November. 

Parsnips from September until June. 

Pumpkins from September until February. 

Roraaine salad can be had in the spring and fall. 

Radishes all the year round; they are very scarce in hot weather. 

Rhubarb from February until July. 

Brussels-sprouts from October until April. We import the very 
finest from France during March and April, but our growers are improv- 
ing in raising them from year to year, and we hope before long to rival the 
French. 

Kale-sprouts from November until June. 

Shallots all the year round. They are green in spring and summer 
and can be had dry during winter. 
2 



1 8 THE TABLE. 



Spinach all the year round; it is covered up in the early winter to 
keep it from freezing, but occasionally during extreme cold weather the 
cold reaches it, when it is impossible to cut it, which makes it scarce and 
high in the markets. 

Sorrel can be had all the year round'; it is raised mostly by French 
gardeners. 

White and yellow summer-squash from April until October. 

Marrow-squash all the year round, except May and part of June; 
they are used quite generally to make pies instead of pumpkins. 

Tomatoes can be had all the year round, except December and part 
of January. The first new ones come from Key West; they are of 
excellent quality. 

White and ruta-baga turnips can be had all the year round. 

Estragon appears from March until December. 



WATER-MELONS AND MUSK-MELONS. 



WATER-MELONS first make their appearance in market about the 
first of July, and can be had until the middle of October. Un- 
like the musk-melon, they are of a rather hardy nature, and 
after the melon has grown on the vine, the changes in temperature, or rain, 
have little effect on them. The first in market come from Florida, and as 
the season advances we get them from further North, until New Jersey is 
reached. More melons are raised in Georgia than in any other State, and of 
far better quality. The best variety to be relied on, as to quality, is known 
as the " Gem." 

Musk-melons, although raised in nearly all parts of the country where 
the climate will admit, are seldom shipped to New York from any distance 
further than Ndrth Carolina, a^ a musk-melon, in order to be of good fla- 
vor, must be ripened, or nearly so, on the vine. When ripe they are 
so easily cracked or mashed that they would not stand transportation. 
For the past two or three years, a few, of a rather hard-rind variety, but 
of excellent flavor, have been shipped from New Orleans, but with only 
partial success, as the cost of transportation and the loss are so great that 
it hardly pays. We often hear the remark, " I have not eaten a good 
melon this season.'' This can be easily explained. 

A melon is of a very sensitive nature, and the delicious'flavor is destroyed 
by rain or cold weather. A melon-patch from which we get finehf flavored 
melons to-day, may be ruined (as to flavor) for a few days, by a heavy 
rain-storm ; for the melon absorbs water like a sponge. When we have 
hot nights and no rain, we have perfect melons. Invariably, it is during 
this kind of weather that tbey are most appreciated. Melons fifst appear 
about the middle of July, and last until cold weather. 



HOW TO SET A TABLE, 



19 



HOW TO SET A TABLE. 



To set a table seems, perhaps, very easy, but to set it properly and 
tastily is not such an easy matter. The advice herewith given may 
prove advantageous to many. 
Place the table in the centre of the dining-room, undfer the chandelier, 
and see to it that it is perfectly steady ; that is to say, that there is no 



^^  




o 



A Plates. 

B Flowera. 

C Sherry. 

D  Sauteme. 

E  Fruits. 

F  Cakes. 

G Celery. 

H Radishes. 

I Black and Red Pepper. 

K Salt Cellars. 



I Green Glass for Sauteme. 
2  Glass for Sherry. 

3 Red Glass for Rhine Wine. 

4 Glass for Champ^ne. 
5  Glass for Latour. 
6  Glass for Chambertin. 
7 Glass for Water. 



danger of its being shaken while the dinner is in progress. Should it not 
rest firmly, perhaps an old relic, in the shape of a Bland Dollar, could be 
made serviceable by placing it under one of the feet. See to it that 
there is plenty of space between each cover ; it is annoying to come in 
contact with every move of your neighbor. 

A table for six persons should be six feet long. Take a woolen cloth 
and put it over the table, and then place a linen cloth on top of it ; this 
will deaden the noise of plates and glasses. 

Flowers should never be absent from the table when you have guests ; 
they can be procured at all seasons. A large basket or bouquet should be 
placed in the centre of the table ; a large bouquet on the right side for 
each lady, and a small boutonnUre for each gentleman, also on the right 
side of the cover. 



20 THE TABLE. 

On each side of the centre-piece place a fruit-stand, nicely arranged 
with the choicest fruits of the season. Next to this place a compotier with 
assorted cakes. Place celery, olives, or radishes symmetrically in the 
space that is left between the centre and the covers. Fish-knives, soup- 
spoons, and oyster-forks must be placed on the right side of the plate, 
and the fork on the left side. If desired, place fancy pieces on the table, 
(^eces monUes); but as the foregoing items pertain only to a dinner for six 
persons it would crowd out much available space. The diagram on the 
preceding page will illustrate the arrangement of the glasses on the table. 

Napkins can be arranged in various styles and figures ; into flowers or 
any other desired form. The latest and most fashionable way is to arrange 
them folded plainly, so as to show the monogram of the family. A small 
salt-cellar should be placed at each cover, to avoid asking the servant for it. 

Menus, either printed or written, should be placed at each cover. It 
is not a breach of etiquette to refuse a course you do not desire ; by know- 
ing what is coming, you can with propriety refuse a course, and take the 
next one. 

About ten minutes before commencing dinner, fill the decanters with 
Sauterne and with sherry, and place the same on the table, as in diagram, 
marked Cand D, 



HOW TO SERVE MEALS. 



NEARLY every family of means is in the habit of giving a few dinners 
to its friends during the year. As a matter of course, the mem- 
bers of the family are, in return, invited to "dine out." 

If you invite your friends to a dinner, you should not wish them to 
go away dissatisfied. After a varied experience of many years, both in 
this country and in Europe, the author feels that no apologias are neces- 
sary if he endeavors to enlighten our epicures and dinner-givers as to how 
to arrange and serve a fine dinner, from commencement to close, after the 
manner of the French. 

It should not be forgotten that much depends upon the appearance of 
the table , and the manner of serving the courses. In fact, more success 
can be attained by studied attention to the room, the table, and the serv- 
ing of the courses, than in the preparation of costly viands. 

On entering a dining-room, the first object which strikes the eye is the 
table. If the table is void of flowers, and other side decorations, includ- 
ing olives, radishes, and celery, tastefully arranged napkins and wine- 
glasses, an impression is given of a boarding-house table. On the contrary, 
when you see a beautifully decorated and artistically arranged table, the 
heart is immediately gladdened. 

A proper regard should be given to the comfort of the guests as 
regards temperature. Have the room neither too cold nor too warm; the 



HOW TO SERVE MEALS. 21 

temperature should never exceed sixty degrees. The dining-room should 
be well aired before dinner commences. Great dare should be taken that 
the dinner be served very hot. Noises with plates and glasses should 
be avoided. 

There is as much system in serving a fine dinner as there is in running 
a railroad, or in any other business. French dinners are generally served 
in three main co\iX%&s,\\T., Relevh, Entries, axA Rotis ; all the rest are 
considered side courses. It depends entirely on the taste of the host as 
to how many main courses he desires served. The author would suggest 
two relevis, three entries, and one or two rotis; this could be made an 
elaborate dinner. 

Naturally, what you shall serve will depend entirely on what there is 
in market at the season. For instance, you cannot serve brook-trout 
in January, or canvas-back duck during the months of June, July, August, 
or September. However, the very best in the market should invariably 
be selected. 

Care should be taken to have the wines at the right temperature. 
Sherry, Sauterne, Chablis, and Rhine wmes should always be served cold. 
Champagne should be served very cold, almost at the freezing-point. 
Bordeaux and Burgundy should be kept twelve hours before dinner in a 
room at a temperature of seventy degrees. Servants should be instructed 
not to fill the glasses more than three-fourths full; for guests are in dan- 
ger of soiling their dresses, and, again, it is not considered good form. 

The following is a fair menu for a New Year's dinner, with the 
necessary instructions how to serve it: 

Blue Point Oysters, 398. Haut Sauterne, 

SOUPS. 

Cream of Asparagus, 70. 
Consomni^ Royale, 107. Amontitlado. 

HORS d'ceuvre. 
Radishes, 293. . Olives. 

Timbales k TEcossaise, 261. 

RELEVES. 

Bass k la R^gence, 305. , 

Potatoes k la Windsor, zoo8. Raventhater-Berg, 

Fillet of Beef, larded k la Parisienne, 514. 
Saddle of Mutton, currant jelly, t(ifi, Pontmery Sec. 

ENTREES. 

Sweetbreads, larded k la Colbert, 6x7. 
Terrapin k la Maryland, 397. Chateau Lattmr. 

SORBET. 

Kirich Punch, 1305. 

ROTIS. 

Canvas-back Pucks, 874. 
Celery, Mayonnaise Salad, 1042, Chamhertin. 

ENTREMETS. 

Artichoke Bottoms, 897, French Peas, 977. 

String Beans, 948. 

SWEET ENTREMETS. 

Plum Pudding k I'Anglaise, 1163. 

ICES. 

Vanilla, ia7z. Fistache, 1275. 

Fruit. Cakes. 

Coffee, 1349. 

Cordials. 



2 2 THE TABLE. 



To begin with the oysters or clams: place some finely chopped ice on 
each soup-plate, with a small fancy napkin on top. Arrange the oysters 
or clams nicely on top of each plate, with a piece of lemon, and serve. 
With this course serve also Haut Sauterne, It is understood that the 
oysters or clams are to be served after all the guests are seated. It should 
be made a rule never to remove any plates while some of the guests are 
still eating. When all have finished, remove the oyster-plates and leave 
dinner-plates in their stead ; then serve the soup. The servant is expected 
to present a plate of each ki<d to each guest, and ask which is preferred. 
Serve sherry with the soup. Always serve the plates on the right side, 
and remove on the left. Serve timbales. First put a spoonful of sauce 
on each plate, and then the timbale ; at the same time you are serving the 
timbale, remove the cold plates and serve the fish. Put the fish on the 
plates, then the sauce, with a few potatoes on the same plate. Serve 
Rauenthaler-Berg. Remove the plates and serve fillet of beef, which 
should be cut in small, even slices. Put the sauce on the plate, and then 
the fillet. Place the artichokes on^the same plate. Serve Pommery Sec 
with this and with the other course. Remove the plates and serve saddle 
of mutton. Cut the loin of the saddle lengthwise, and then crosswise, 
and serve with a little gravy and a spoonful of string-beans on the same 
plate. When this course is finished, serve the sweetbread^. Put the 
sauce first on the plate, as with the fillfet, with a spoonful of peas. With 
this serve Chateau Latour. The next course, terrapin, should be served 
in a very hot tureen. Before serving, add a little fine sherry; mix well, 
and give each guest a small portion. Serve more Chateau Latour with  
this course. , 

After this comes sorbet. This can be served in glasses or in shells; 
for instance, take six lemons or six small oranges, cut off the tops, take 
the soft parts out of them, and in them place the sorbet. Arrange them 
on cold dessert-plates, decorated with 'small fancy napkins or fancy paper. 
While the guests are enjoying the sorbet, remove sherry, Sauterne, and 
Hock glasses, no matter if empty or full. (Replace knives and forks 
before serving the sorbet.) ' 

Now come canvas-back ducks. _ Before serving, place them for a 
moment before the host, so that all the guests can see them. Cut off only 
the breasts, and serve, with a little of the gravy and a small piece of fried 
hominy, on very hot plates; then pass around the currant jelly. You can 
serve a whole breast or a half one; however, during a hearty dinner, a 
half one is preferable; this is entirely at the disposition of the host. Serve 
celery salad with mayonnaise dressing on separate dessert-plates, with 
forks, and then serve Chambertin. 

When this course is finished, remove all side dishes, casters, and salt 
and pepper cruets, and leave nothing on the table but flowers, fruits, and 
cakes. Clean the table neatly with a brush or napkin, and then place 
dessert spoons and forks at each cover. Serve plum pudding the same as 
omelette au rum. Pour the rum over the pudding, spread powdered 
sugar on top, and, with a spoon, keep pouring the burning liquid over it 



ffOW TO SERVE MEALS. 23 

*- 

until it ceases to burn. Then cut in slices and serve, putting some of the 
liquid on each plate. 

Vanilla and pistache ice-cream should be served on cold dessert-plates 
vfith fancy paper underneath, and with dessert spoons and forks. Serve 
the cakes with the ice-cream. 

When this course is finished, serve to each guest a finger-bowl, with a 
thin slice of lemon in the water. Small cups for coffee should be passed 
at the same time. Fruits, nuts, and raisins come next. It is customary 
with some old American families to introduce at this course a bottle of 
very old Madeira wine; but this is certainly not necessary. 

Now comes the last, the coffee, which must be served fresh and very 
hot, for the preparation of which the author refers you to page 381. At 
the same time serve cordialsi and' the dinner will be completed. 



Menus for Every Day in the Year. 



EXPLANATORY NOTE. 

While these menus are biinple and complete, it is not supposed that they can always be 
carried out in detail. They will, however, furnish suggesuons to house-keepers who are daily 
perplexed with the question, "What shall we have for break&st, luncheon, and dinner?" The 
number placed after each dish refers to the recipe showing how the dish is prepared. The 
menus are arranged so as to be iise(^foi any year. New Year's, 1890, will begin on a Wednes- 
day instead of a Tuesday, as here printed; in that case, use the New Year's menu and then turn 
to the first Thursday in January and proceed in regular order. Should you come out uneven 
at the end of the month, through skipping some days at the first, turn back again 10 the begin- 
ning. For instance should Thursday be the 29th ofjanuary, instead of the last, as punted, turn 
back to the first Friday in January, and proceed until the month is completed. Special menus 
have been prepared for New Year's Day, Washuigton's Birthday, Fourth of July , Thanksgiving 
Day, and Christmas. 



NEW YEAR'S DA Y- 



Tuesday, January 



Breokfaat. 



uncl)on. 



Eggs i I'Aurore, 444, 

Boiled Haddock, Cream sauce, 352, 181. 

Lamb Chops, maisoD d'or, 683. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Stewed Prunes & la General Dufour, 1330, 

Wheat Cakes, 1184. 



Stuffed Deviled Crabs, 370. 

Chicken Saute & la Marengo, 771. 

Sweet Potatoes Souffl^es, loio. 

Macaroni au Gratin, 955. 

Maraschino Pudding, 1134. 



Dinner. 



Blue Point Oysters, 29S. 

SOUPS. 

Cream of Asparagus, 70. 



Consomm^ Royale, 107. 
Radishes, 292. 



HORS D CEUVRE. 



Haut Sauterne. 



Artio7itillado 
Olives. 



Timbales k I'Elcossaise, 261. 

RELEV^. 

Bass k la Regence, 305. 
Potatoes kla Windsor, 1008. Rauenthaler-Berg, 

Fillet of Beef, larded k la Farisienne, 514. 
Saddle of Muttbn, currant jelly, 666. ' Pommery Sec, 

ENTREES. 

Sweetbreads, larded a la Colbert, 617. 
Terrapin k la Maryland, 397. Chateau Latour, 

SORBET. 

Kirsch Punch, 1305. 

ROTIS. 

Canvas-back Ducks, 874. 
Celery, Mayonnaise Salad, 1042. Chamberiin, 

ENTREMETS. 

Artichoke Bottoms, 897. French Peas, 977. 

String Beans, 94S. 

SWEET ENTREMETS. 

Plum Pudding k TAnglaise, 1163. 

ICES. 

Vanilla, 1271. _ ^ Pistache, 1275. 



Fruit. 



Coffee, X349. 
Cordials. 

25 



Cakes. 



26 



THE TABLE. 



Wednesday, January 



Breakfaat. 



Eggs, with brown butter, 414. 

Fried Scallops, Tomato sauce, 301-205. 

Minced Lamb k I'Anglaise, 688, 

Hashed Potatoes, 1C02. 

Rice and Milk, 1177. 

uncl)on. 

Lobster k la Bordclaise, 360. 

Mutton Chops, Maintenon, 685. 

Potatoes ChsLteau, 1009, 

Herring Salad, 1074. 

Galette, 1221. 



Dinner. 



Oysters, 298. , 

Mock Turtle, 17. 

Celery, ago. Sardines, 283. 

Fillets of Sole, Joinville, 322. 

Salmi of Duck k la Bourgeoise, 829. 

String Beans, with cream, 946. 

Venison Steak, Londonderry sauqe, 880, 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

Roast Veal, 585. 

Escarole, Salad, 1055, 

Nelson Pudding, 1155; 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday^ January  . 



53rakfa0t. 

Omelet Raspail, 467, 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Beefsteak, with Anchovy butler, 524-146. 

Potatoes k la Rice, 1007. 

Blanc Mange k la Josephine Delmonico, 1270, 



JDinner. 



Canil)on. 



Oyster Patties, 387. 

Broiled Kidneys, with Bacon, 713. 

Saratoga Potatoes, ion. 

Blanquette of Veal, with Mouilles, 552. 

Strawberry Tarts, 1117. 



Oysters, 298. 

Puree Crecy, 47. 

Olives. Radishes, 292. 

Salmon k la R^gence, 305. 

Sweetbreads, with Spinach, 607. 

Spaghetti k I'ltalienne, 96a. 

Mignon Filets aux Pommes Parisiennes, 515, 

Roast Chicken, 755, 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Almond Cake, 1224. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday^ January 



Urcakfaat. 



Eggs kla Bourguignonne, 411. 

Whitebait, 301. 

Pig*s Feet.k la Boston, 730. 

Succotash, I022. 

Brioche k la Conde, 1203. 

Cunrljcon. 

Boiled Skate, cream sauce, 325-181. 

Stewed CalFs Liver k I'Alsacienne, 582. 

Oyster-Plant Poulette,* 1019. 

Lobster Salad k la Plummer, 1062. 

Vermicelli Pudding, 1142. 



Dinner. 



Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Asparagus, 70, 

Celery, 290. Thon. 28a, 

Smelts k la Toulouse, 354. 

Braised Beef kla Flamande, 482. 

Artichokes k la Florentine, 903. 

Chicken Saute k la Marengo, 771, 

French Peas. 

Roast Quail, with Watercress, 834. 

Lettuce Salad^ 1057. 

Pie k la Martha Washington, 1105, 

Coffee, 1349* 



MENUS. 



27 



Saturday, January  . 



BreaKfaBt. 

Ham Omelet, 462. 

Boiled Halibut, butter sauce, 309-157. 

Chicken Livers, with Bacon, 769. 

Sweet Potatoes Soufflees, 1010. 

Com Fritters, 965, 

Cnncl)on. 

Stuffed Oysters k la Mali, 386. 

Chicken Pot-pie, 757. 

Anchovy Salad, 1037. 

Diplomatic Pudding, 1129. 



HDinncr. 

Clams, 300. 

Pot-au-feu, 54. 

Olives. Radishes, 3931 

Matelote of Eels, 332 

Partridge, braised with Cabbage, 845. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Calfs Head & la Poulette, 639. 

Potatoes & la fiignon, looi . 

Roast Mutton, 585. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Baked Apple Dumplings, 1122. 

Champagne Jelly, 1322. 

Coffee, 1 349 



Sunday, January 



i3reakfast. 

Eggs k la Livingstone, 410. 

Picked-up Codfish, 346. 

Escalops of Veal, Proven5ale, 573. 

Potatoes Julienne, 1013. 

Iced Timbale of Rice, ii75' 



!Dtnnn*. 



Cuncl)on. 



Lobster k la Newburg, 359. 

Chicken Croquettes k la P^rigourdin, 761. 

Hashed Potatoes au Gratin, 1004, 

Macaroni, with cteam, 954. 

Chocolate Eclairs, 1243. 



Oysters, 398, 

Chicken & la Pi^montaise, 63. 

Radishes, 292. Celery, 290 

Blackfish au Gratin, 319. 

Minced Beef it la Catalan, 502, 

Cauliflower, butter sauce, 925. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton, caper sauce, 651. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Romaine Punch, Z304. 

Roast Grouse, 853- 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

English Pudding, 1137. 

Stilton Cheese. 

Coffee, X349. 



Monday^ January  . 



Breakfast, 

Omelet, with fine Herbs, 451. 

Lobster Cutlets, Victoria, 366. 

Sausages au Gastronome, 740. 

Carrots Wid Cream, 927. 

Rice kl'Airolo, 1171. 

Cnncl)on. 

Broiled Sardines on Toast, 403. 

Hamburg Steak, Russian sauce, 526, 

Potatoes k la Hanna, 1012. 

Chicken Salad, 1044. 

Apple Tarts, 1120. 



JBinnev. 



Clams, 300. 

Brunoise, 2. 

Lyon Sausage, 286. Olives 

Smelts au Gratin, 356. 

Stewed Lamb, with Peas, 706. 

Potatoes Souffldes, loio. 

Croquettes of Sweetbreads, P^rigueux, 6igt 

String Beans, 946, 

Squash k I'Am^ricaine, 820. , 

' Barbe de Capucine Salad, 1038. 

Plum Pudding, 11 10. 

Coffee, 1349. 



28 



THE TABLE. 



Tuesday, January  . 



Breakfast. 

Fried Eggs, 412. 

Soles k la Horly, 321, 

Mutton Chops. Sover, 647. 

Stewed Potatoes, 995. 
Peach Marmalade, 1331. 

Cuncl)con. 

Lobster en Chevreuse, 362. 

Mignon Filets aux Fommes Farisienne, 515. 

Celery a la Bonne Femme, 928. 

Apple Pie, 1083. 



?D inner. 



Oystei^, 29S. 

Chicken, with Leeks. 68. 

Radishes, 292. Then, 282. 

Broiled Sea Bass, maitre d'hdtel, 326. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 

Hot Fatties k I'Anglaise, 266. 

Braised Noix of Veal, Morlaisienne, 635. 

Stuffed Egg-Flant, 909. 

Roast Chicken, 755. 

Lettuce, and Egg Salad, 1058, 

Charlo.ttes Glac^es, 1299. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday^ January 



Breakfast. 



Eggs k la Tripe, 419. 

Forterhouse Steak, with Watercress, 524. 

Cold Boiled Ham, 722. < 

Hashed Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. 

Brioche Fluttes, 1204. 



ttncl)on. 



Stufied Clams, deviled, 376. 

Epigrammes of Lamb, with chicory, 690. 

Macaroni au Gratin, 955. 

French Pudding, 1x39. 



CDinner. 

Oysters, 29S. 

Consomm6 Royal, 107. 

Celery, 290. Olives. 

Fillets of Bass & la Chambord, 343. 

Croquettes of Chicken k la Reine, 758. 

Braised Beef k la Mode, 479. 

Spinach, maitre d'hdtel, 942, 

Roast Venison, currant jelly sauce, 878. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Savarin k I'Anglaise, 1199. 

Sherry Wine Jelly, 1318. 

Cpffee, 1349, 



Thursday^ January 



Breakfast. 

Scrambled Eggs, with Asparagus tops, 406. 
Broiled Sardines on Toast, 403. " 
Blacl'<^au5ages, with mashed Potatoes, 719. 
Stewed Prunes, 1 330. , 

Cuncljcon. 

Canape Lorenzo, 391. 

Bee&teak Fie k TAnglaise, 487. 

Mac^dome Salad, 1063. 

Rhubarb Tarts, ziis. 



IHtnnn-. 

Clams, 300. 

Terrapin, 61, 

Radishes, 292. Lyon Sausage, 286, 

Sheep's-herfd au Gratm, 319. 

Saddle of Mutton k la Sevign^, 669. 

Broiled Fresh Mushrooms on Toast, gi6. 

Chicken Saut6 k la Parmentieri 773. 

French Peas. 

Roast Partridge sur Canape, 843, 

Celery, Mayonnaise Salad, 1042. 

. Baba au Rhum, 1217. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



29 



Friday, January  . 



Breokfast. 

Oyster Omelet, 45a. 

Pork Andouillettes, 742. 

Mutton Chops, maison d'or. 683. 

Sorrel, with Croutons, 974. 

French Pancake, xi86. 



Cnncl) 



eon. 

Mussels k la Marini&re, 378. 

Duck k I'Americaine, 823. 

String Beans, 947. 

Apple Charlotte, 1x67. 



inncv. 

Oysters, 398. 

Bisque of Crabs, 9. 

Celery, 290. Olives, 

Broiled Pompano, maitre d'hdtel, 329. 

Cucumber Salad, 389. 

Tenderloin Piqu^ kla Bemardi, 523. 

Stuffed Green Peppers, 975. 

Calfs Head en tortue, 641. 

Roast Quail, 834. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Vanilla Ice-Cream, 1971. 

Lady-Fingers, 1331 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday^ January 



Bnakfast. 

Eggs k la Finoise, 424. 

Codfish k la Bonne Femme, 345. 

Veal Cutlets en PapUottes, 566. 

Mashed Potatoes au Gratin, 998. 

Milan Cake, 1228. 

Crabs k la St. Jean, 371. 

Chicken k la Maryland, 785. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Anchovy Salad, 1037. 

Apricot Tarts, 1108. 



?Ilmnn'. 



Oysters k I'Alexandre Dumas, 299. 

Cro4^te-au-Pot, 11. 

Thon, 282. Radishes, 29^ 

Fillet of Soles, k la Hollandaise, 317. 

potatoes k la Parisienne, 986. 

Shoulder of Lamb Rouennaise, 698, 

Spinach, with gravy, 943. 

Sweetbreads k la B^amaise, 6zo. 

Roast Squabs, 816, 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Omelet Celestinc, 477. 

Lemon Water Ice, 1279. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday^ January 



Breakfast. 



Sausage Omelet, 465. 

Fried Smelts, tartare sauce, 301, 207. 

Kidneys, stewed with Madeira, 662. 

Potatoes, maitre d'hAtel, 985. 

Preserved Peaches, 1340. 



Cttncl)on. 



Stuffed Clams, 376. 

Curry of Lamb k Ulndienne, 677, 

Spaghetti ku Gratin, 961, 

Chicken Salad, 1044. 

Apple Pie, meringue, 1 103 . 



JD inner. 



Oysters, 298. 

Consomme DesHgnac, 108. 

Celery. 290. Olives. 

Bass aux Fines Herbes. 323. 

Supreme of Chicken k la Toulouse, 786. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Antelope Steak, puree of Chestnuts, 890, 882 

Potatoes k la Bignon, looi. 

Kirsch Punch, 1305. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Diplomatic Pudding, Z129. 

GorgonzoUa Cheese^ 

Coffee, 1349. 



30 



THE TABLE. 



Monday, January 



Breakfost. 



Eggs & rAurore, 444. 

Mackerel aux Fines Herbes, 331 . 

Minced Beef k la Proven^ale, 500. 

Sweet Potatoes Soufflees, loxo. 

Com Fritters, 965. 



tincl)on. 



Broiled Florida Shad, maitre d'h6tcl, 326. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 

Beef Tongue, with risotto, 537. 

Macaroni and Cream 954. 

Cream Renvcrsee, 1252. 



iHnner. 



Clams, 300. 

Chicken & la Portugake, 66, 

Radishes, 292. Celery, 290. 

Lobster au Curry, 358. 

Pork Chops, sauce piquante, 745. 

Cauliflower, with butter, 925. 

Croquettes of Chicken &la Reine, 75B. 

Stuffed Lettuce, 953. 

Roast Turkey, Cranberry sauce, 800, 1329. 

Barbe de Capucfne Salad, 1038. 

Omelet Soufll^e, 474. 

Kiimmel Jelly, 1323. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday^ January  . 



Breakfaat. 



?Dinnr. 



Oatmeal and Cream. 

Sardine Omelet, 468. 

Beefsteak, Horseradish sauce, 524-164. 

Mashed Potatoes, 998. 

German Pancake; with Apples, 1189. 



Ctincl)on. 



Broiled Pompano, 329. 

Roulade of Beef k I'Ecarlate, 539. 

Sorrel, with eggs, 974. 

Salad k I'ltalienne, 1036. 

^ Peach Fie, 1092. 



Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Celery, 71. 

Thon, 282. Radishes, 292. 

Deviled Crabs, 370. 

Shoulder of Lamb, jardiniere, 696. 

Potatoes Duchesse, 1006. 

Artichoke Bottoms, Florentine, 903. 

Antelope Chops, Currant jelly, 891. 

Beans Panaches, 950. 

Doe-birds sur canape, 838. 

Celery Salad, 1042, 

Cabinet Pudding k la Sadi-Camot, 1164. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday^ January 



Breakfast. 

Asparagus Omelet, 458. 

Minced Beef k la Catalan, 502. 

Turnips, with gravy, 967. 

Rice k la Frangaise, iiSo, 



CuncI) 



^Dinner. 



on. 



Lobster k I'Am^ricaine, 357. 
Sweetbread Croquettes k la Perigueux, 619. 

Potatoes Julienne, 1013. 

Stewed Fresh Mushrooms, with .cream, 915. 

Sago Pudding, 1140. 



Clams, 300. 

Puree a la Parmentier, 44. 

Radishes, 292. Sardines, 283, 

Broiled Blackfish, Shrimp sauce, 325, 178. 

Civet of Hare k la Fran9aise, 893. 

Celery k la Bonne Femme, 928, 

Mutton Chops k la Robinson, 682. 

fituffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

Roast Red-head Ducks, 876. 

Lettuce Salad, 1059. 

Charlotte Panachee, 1300. 

Coffee, X349. 



MENUS. 



31 



Thursday, January  . 



Breakfast. 

E^gs, with brown butter, 414. 

Mutton Hash & la Zingara, 653. 

Lima Beans, 93a. 

Small Brioches, 120a. 

uncl)on. 

Oysters k la Poulette. 383. 

Corned Beef and Cabbage, 490. 

Macaroni Napolitaine, 957. 

Chicken Salad, 1044; 

Cherry Tarts, uii. 



JD inner. 



Oysters, 298. 

Busecca, 7, 

Celery, 290. Olives. 

Salmon & la Concise, 306. 

Boiled Turkey, Oyster sauce, 797. 

Spinach k TAnglaise, 940. 

Lamb Steak, pur^e of PeaB, 716. 

Potatoes & la Parisienne,986. 

Woodcock sur Canape, 871. 

Tomato Salad, 1070. 

Hot Savarin, 1198. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday^ January 



Breakfast. 



!Dinnr. 



Eggs h. la Bennett, 447. 

Fiied Smelts. Colbert sauce, 30T, 190. 

Country Sausages k I'Anglaise, 736. 

Beet-roots, with cream, 912. 

Stewed Quinces, 1338. 



CuncI) 



Stuffed Lobster k la Diable, 367. 

Stewed Veal, Solferino, 628. 

Fried Egg-plant, 907. 

Tongue Salad, 1056. 

Caramel Pudding, i x66. 



Oysters, 298, 

Bouille-k-Baisse, z. 

Olives. Sardines, 283. 

Bass k. la Venitienne, 338. 

Beef Tongue ii la Chipolata, 532, 33a. 

Stuffed Green Peppers, 975. 

Pigeon Cutlets & la Victoria, 815. 

Potatoes k la Windsor, 1008. 

Saddle of Antelope, Cranberry sauce, 878. 1329. 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Chocolate Ice-Cream, 1272. 

Vanilla Eclairs, 1245. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday^ January 



JBtfakfast. 



Cheese Omelet, 469. 

Broiled Spanish -Mackerel, 329. 

Breaded'Veal Cutlets, tomato sauce, 563. 

Broiled Bacon, 754, 

Rice au Lait d'Amandes, i X70. 



ttncl)fon. 



Oysters en Brochette au Petit Sale, 385. 

Broiled Beefsteak, with Watercress, 524. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Stewed Lamb k la Parisienne, 708. 

Apple Tarts, x i as. 



lUmner. 



Clams, 300. 

Sorrel, with Asparagus tops, 41. 

Lyon Sausage, 286. Celery, 390. 

Fried Eels, sauce tartare, 301, 207. 

Potatoes, Saratoga, ion. 

Garnished Sour-krout, 924. 

Salmi of Duck, with olives, 827. 

Celery, with cream, 929. 

Roast Leg of Lamb, 648. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Pineapple Pudding, 1148. 

Coffee, 1349* 



32 



THE TABLE. 



Sunday, January ^  . 



I3akfa0t. 

Eggs k la Meyerbeer, 437. 

Veal Kidneys, sauce madfere, 662. 

StuflFed Pig's Feet, 732. 

Potatoes k la Rice, 1007. 

Fried Hominy, 1035. 



Ctmcl)on. 

Lobster Croquettes a- la Victoria, 365. 
Broiled Grouse, bread sauce, 854, 162 
Broiled Fresh Mushrooms on Toast, 916. 
Boiled Apple Dumplings, 1127. j 



HDtnncr. 



Oysters, 298. 

Chicken k la Holl^ndaise. 64. 

Celery, 290. Radishes, 392. 

Red Snapper & la Creole, 339. 

Beef Braised k I'Orsini, 481 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

Lamb Croquettes, sauce Robert, 679, 192. 

String Beans, 945. 

Punch k la Cardinal, 1306. 

Canvas-Back Ducks, Currant jelly, 874, 1326. 

"Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Iced Pound Cake, 1193. 

Pistache Ice-Cream, 1275. 

Imported Brie Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday^ January  . 



Breakfast. 



Wxmtt. 



Mushroom Omelet, 460. 

Cold Bass, Ravigote butter, 352, 147 

Hashed Beef k la Zingara, 652. 

Broiled Ham, 753. 

Milan Cake, 1228. 



Cttnl)on. 



Soft Clams k la Newburg, 390. 

Chicken Saut6, with Tarragon, 774. 

Potatoes k I'ltalienne, 990. 

Herring Salad, 1074. 

Baked Apples, 1124. 



Oysters, 298. 

Consomm^ C^lestine, iz8. 

Then, 2S2, Celery, 290. 

Terrapin k la Maryland, 397. 

Compote of Squabs, 822. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 

Veal Fricandeau k la Morlaisienne, 579. 

Sorrel au Gras, 974. 

Roast Saddle of Mutton, 664. 

Tomato Salad, 1070. 

Pithivier's Cake, 2225. 

Peach Marmalade, 1331. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday^ January 



Breakfast. 



Chicken Liver Omelet, 464. 

Broiled Sardines, sauce percillade, 403, 165 

Hashed Mutton au Gratin, 653. 

Oyster-plant k la Poulette, 1079. 

Wheat Cakes, 1184. 



Cttncl)on. 



Sheep's-head, sauce Hpllaadaise, 309, 160. 

Beefsteak Pie k I'Am^ricaine, 4S8. 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Lemon Fie, meringue, 1102. 



inner. 



Oysters, 298. 

Mulligatawney, 34. 

Tomatoes, 288. Olives. 

Crawfish k la Bordelaisc, 360. 

Piloff of Chicken k laTurque, 782. 

Succotash, 1022. 

Sweetbreads Piques k la Financi6re, 603. 

Spaghetti k I'ltalienne, 960. 

Roast Quails, with Watercress, 834. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Cocoanut Pudding, 1147. 

Camembert Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



Wednesday, January 



Bwakfast. 



Dinner. 



Eggs & la Valencienne, 421. 

Fried Frostfish, sauce Colbert, 301-190. 

Mignon Filets k la Bemardi, 512. 

gashed Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. 

Stewed Apples. 1332. 



Cuncl)on, 



Crabs & I'Anglaise, 373. 

Hashed Turkey en Bordure, 805. 

Broiled Tomatoes, 1025. 

Potato Salad, 1073. 

Farina Pudding, ii44> 



Clams, 300. 

Beef K I'Ecossaise, 6. 

Anchovies, 284. Celery, 290. 

Smelts k la Toulouse, 354. 

Civet of Hare, poivrade sauce, 886. 

Stuffed Cabbage, 919. 

Breast of Lamb, jardlni&re, 702. 

Roast Chicken, 75s. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Orange Water-Ice, 1280, 

Allumettes, 1205. 

Roquefort Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday^ January 



Breakfast. 

Scrambled Eggs, with Chicory, 409. 

BroUed Oysters, 382. 

Flat Sausages, with White Wine, 735. 

Carrots, with Cream, 927. 

Brioche a laCond6, 1203. 

Cuncljcon. 

Oysters k la Mali, 386. 

Irish Stewed Mutton, 660. 

Shrimp Salad, 1067. 

French Pancake, with jelly, 1187. 



JDtnner. 



' Clams, 300. 

Consomme au Vermicelli, 103. 

Celery, 290. Lyon Sausage, 286. 

Frogs* Legs a la Geo. Merrill, 1372. 

Leg of Mutton kla Cond, 649. 

Stuffed Onions, 970. 

Supreme of Chicken k la Toulouse, 786. 

Fresh Mushrooms on Toast, 914. 

Red-head Duck krAm^ricaine, 820. 

Lettuce and Egg Salad, 1058. 

Peach Ice-Cream, 1276. 

Almond Biscuits, 1235. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, January  



Brmkfaet. 



JDinncr. 



Tomato Omelet, 456. 

BlackrBass; Oyster sauce, 309, 173. 

Chicken Livers en Brochette. 769. 

Potatoes a la Lyonnaise, 991. 

Waffles and Sugar, 1196. 



Cuncl)on, 



Croquettes of Salmon k la Victoria, 365, 208. 

Calf's Head k la Vinaigrette, 640. 

Okra, stewed with cream, 1031. 

Russian Salad, 1065. 

Bread Pudding, 1132. 

3 



Oysters a 1' Alexandre Dumas, 299. 

Mulligatawney k la Delmonico, 35. 

Olives. Thon, 282. 

Fompano, with fii\e Herbs, 331. 

Broiled Tenderloin, with Mushrooms, 496. 

Lima Beans, 952. 

Chicken Vol-au-Vent au Salpicon Royal, 810, 

Artichokes k la Barigoul, 897. [255. 

Roast Woodcock, 871. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

IcedTimbale of Rice, 1175. 

Swiss Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349, 



34 



THE TABLE. 



Saturday, January  . 



Breakfast. 



?Binnr. 



Oatmeal and Cream. 

Eggs k la Proven9ale, 422. 

Cod*s Tongues, black butter. 349. 

Fried Cairs Brains, sauce tartare, 559. 

Oyster Plant, with butter, 1018. 

Baked Apples, 1124. 

Cttncl)on. 

Crabs h. la St. Laurent, 372, 

Broiled Chicken on Toast, 756. 

Bru^els Sprouts, 922. 

Timbales h. la Schultze. 263. 

Rum Omelet, 476 



Oysters, 298, 

Cream of Chicken, 62. 

Anchovies, 284, Radishes, 292. 

Sheep's-head, Lobster sauce, 158. 

Braised Beef & la Morlaisienne, 47S. 

Potatoes en Surprise, 1005. 

Lamb Chops a la Signora, 68x. 

French Peas. 

Roast Partridge, 843 . 

Celery Salad, 1042. 

Charlotte au Cafe, 1262. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday^ January 



Ureakfast. 



JBinn^r, 



Kidney Omelet, 463. 

Broiled Shad, maitre d*h6tel, 326. 

Hamburg Steak, Madeira sauce, 526-x85. 

Potatoes Lyonnaise, 991. 

Cream Renversee, 1252. 



Cuncl) 



xon. 

Truffled Boned Turkey, 813. 

Mighon Filets & la Boh^mieniie, 513. 

Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. 

Shrimp Salad, 1067. 

Chaussons, 1236. 



Oysters, 298. ^ 

Consomme Colbert, 120. 

Olives. Celery, 290. 

Smelts a la Bearnaise, 353. 

Grenadin of Veal i,la Sevigne, 588. 

Celery, with' Marrow, 930. 
Fried Chicken, Cream sauce, 181. 

String Beans. 948. 

Punch k la Lallah Rookh, 1308. 

Roast Doe-birds i rAmericaine, 840. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Peach Pudding, 1150. 

Gorgonyolla Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Ureakfaat. 



Monday^ _ January _  . 



Boiled Eggs. 

Broiled Calf s Liver and Bacon, 584, 

Tripe k la mode de Caen, 547. 

Potatoes Lyonnaise 991. 

Stewed Pears, 1333. 



Cttncl)on. 

Fried Oysters, 380. 

Veal, stewed with Peas, 631. 

Cauliflower Salad, 1040. 

Pineapple Pie, 1087. 



JDinncr. 



Clams, 300. 

Julienne, 27. 

Celery, 290. Radishes. 292, 

Turbot. sauce aurora, 309-182. 

Bouchees & la Reine, 270. 

Flageolets, 1365. 

Epigrammes of Lamb, with Asparagus tops, 690. 

Spaghetti k I'ltalienne, 960. 

Roast Bee^, 527, 

Tomato, Mayonnaise Salad, 1071. 

Champagnejelly, 1322. 

Lady Fingers, 1231. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



35 



Tuesdayy January  . 



Breakfast. 



Scrambled E^gs, with trufifles. 407. 

Boiled Haddock, Cream sauce, 352-181. 

Brochettes of Lamb & la Dumas, 674. 

Potatoes Parisienne, 986. 

Cr^me en Mousse au Cafe, 1353. 



tincl) 



Bluefish k ritalienne, 337. 

Escalops of Veal ^ la Duxelle, 569. 

Stuffed Cucumbers, 937. 

Croquettes of Macaroni, 279. 

Blackberry Tarts, 11 19. 



Dinner. 



Oystersi 298. 

Clear Green Turtle, 18. 

Tomatoes, 288. Radishes, 392. 

Shad, with' fine Herbs, ^23. 

Broiled Sirloin Steak k la Bordelaise, 491. 

PotatoesBignon, looi. 

Timbale of Foie-gras Lagard&re, 809. 

Roast Partridge, 843. 

Lettuce, Mayonnaise Salad, 1057-1042. 

' Apples Meringu^es, 1248. 

Cheddar Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday^ February  . 



S tea kfast 



HJinncr. 



Eggs k rimperatrice, 440. 

Mutton Chops, Soyer, with Potatoes, 647 

Broiled Ham, 753. 

Milan Cake, 1328. 



tincl)con. 



Fried Oysters, 380, 

Blanquette of Veal, with nouilles, 552. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Mince Pie, 1082 



Clams, 300. 

Menestra. 36. 

Sardines, 283. Celery, 390, 

Lobster en Chevreuse, 362. 

Tenderloin Piqui k I'Egyptienne, 521. 

French Peas. 

Broiled Fresh Mushrooms on Toast, 916. 

Croquettes of Sweetbreads, with Peas, 630. 

Roast Goose, 808. 

Watercress Salad, 1072, 

Boiled Peach Dumplings, 1125. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday, February  . 



13rcakfa0t. 



nnncr. 



Omelet Regence, 470. 

BoQed Porgies, maitre d'hdtel, 329. 

Minced Veal k la Biscaenne, 576. 

Turnips and Gravy, 967. 

Preserved Cherries, 1347* 



unct)on. 



Oysters en Brochette au Petit Sale, 385. 

Chicken Pot Pie, 757. 

Tomatoes k la Marseillaise, 1029. 

Beef Salad, 1039. 

Stewed Pears, 1333. 



Oysters, 298. 

Consomme, with Italian paste, 103. 

Olives. Tomatoes, 288. 

Broiled Spanish-Mackerel, 329. ' 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 

Beef Tongue kla Gendarme, 532. 

Fried Oyster Plant, 102 1. 

Salmi of Woodcock k la Chasseur, 873. 

Roast Veal, 583. 

Lettuce Salad, X057. 

Pistache Ice Cream, 1275. 

Bitter Almond Macaroons, 1209. 

Coffee, X349. 



36 



THE TABLE. 



Friday, February  . 



Bwakfast. 

Eggs k la Chipolata, 442. 

Picked-up Codfish, 346. 

Lamb en Brochette, Colbert sauce, 674-190. 

Stewed Potatoes, 995. 

Rice and Milk, 1177. 



Wvmtx. 



uncl) 



t)on. 

Fillets of Sole k la Venitienne, 338. 

Breaded Veal Cutlets, Tomato sauce, 563. 

String Beans, 946. 

Crab Salad, 1047. 

, Plum Puddingy J 163, 



Oysters, 29S. 

Bisque of Lobster, 10. 

Sardines, 283, Olives. 

Salmon, en papillotes, 302. 

Tenderloin h. la Hussarde, 519. 

Succotash, 1022. 

.Coquilles of Chicken, with Mushrooms, 271. 

Roast English Snipe sur canape, 868. 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Baba, 1216. 

Pont l'Ev6que Cheese. * 

" Coffee, 1349. 



-Saturday^ February 



Breakfast. 



Omelet Bonne Femme, 466. 

Tnpe Saute k la Lyonnaise, 548. 

Beefsteak, with Watercress, 524. 

Hashed Potatoes, with Cream, 1003. 

Com Fritters, 965. 

Cttntl)on. 

Canape Lorenzo, 391. 

Lamb Chops k la Robinson, 682. 

French Pea's. 

Anchovy Salad, 1037. 

Diplomatic Pudding, 1129. 



Slinnfr. 



Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Tapioca, 104. 

Thon, 282. Celery, 290. 

Boiled Sheep's-head, with fine Herbs, 352-323. 

Pig's Cheek, Apple sauce, 726-168. 

Oyster Plant k la Poulette, 1019. 

Pijpff of Chicken k la Creole, 783. 

Beans a 1' Anglaise, 948, 

Roast Mutton, 585. 

Barbe de Capucine Salad, 1038. 

Charlotte Russe, 1261. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday^ February  . 



jBreakfast. 

Eggs k la Turque, 439. 

Hashed Lamb, 70a. 

Sausages, with White Wine, 735. 

Potatoes Julienne, 1013. 

Peach Marmalade, 1331, 



ttncl)on. 

Broiled Spanish Mackerel, maitre d'hdt?!, 329. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 

Stewed Veal k la Marengo, 624. 

Rhubarb Pie, 1085. 



JDmncr. 



Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Douglas, 114. 

Celery, 290. . Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Croquettes of Lobster, sauce Colbert, 365-190. 

Sweetbreads k la Duxelle, 608. 

Broiled Tomatoes, 1025, 

Chicken Saut^ k I'Hongrobe, 772. 

Spinach, with croOtons, 943. 

Romaine Punch, 1304. 

Roast English Snipe, 868. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Croustade of Rice, 1 176, 

Imported Brie Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



2>1 



Monday, February 



Breakfast. 



Omelet Me^icaine, 473. 

BroQed English Breakfast Bncon, 754. 

CalPs Liver Saute ^ I'ltalienne, 580. 
Stewed Tomatoes, 1027, 
Preserved Plums, 1343. 



Citncl)con. 



Soft Clams k la Merrill, 389. 

Curry of Chicken k I'lndienne, 792. 

French Peas. 

Salad Su^doise, 1069. 

Mitle-feullles, 1223. 



SI inner. 

Clams, 300. 

Consomm^ Printanier, 109. 

Celery, ago. Caviare, 281. 

Broiled Smelts, B^arnaise, 353. 

Broiled Lamb Chops, Bordelaise sauce, 647-186. 

Spaghetti k Tltalienne, 960. 

Antelope Steak^ Currant jelly sauce, 884. 

Sweet Potatoes, HoIIandaise, 999. 

Roast Teal Ducks, 859. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Tapioca Pudding, 1141. 

Coffee, 1349. 



TuesdUy, February 



33rakfa0t. 



SDtnnn'. 



Eggs au Miroir, 425. 

Broiled Deviled Mutton, Kidneys, 715. 

Hamburg Steak, Russian sauce, 526. 

Lima Beans, 952. 

German Pancake, 11S8. 



Cttncl)on. 



Broiled Shad, raaitre d'h6tel, 326. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 

Salmi of Duck, Rouennaise, 825. 

Onions, with Cream, 968. 

Greengage Pie, 1093. 



Oysters, 298, ^ 

Chicken k la Richmond, 62, 

Celery, 290. Radishes 292. 

Stuffed Lobster, 367. 

Tenderloin, piqu^ k la Portugaise, 517. 

Potatoes Duchesse, 1006. 

Squabs en Crapaudine, 819. 

Brussels Sprouts sautes au beurre, 922. 

Roast Chicken, 755. 

Celery, Mayonnaise Salad, 1042. 

Sponge Cake, 1 195. 

English Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, February 



Sreakfaat 

Tomato Omelet, 456, 

Broiled Smelts, Beamaise, 353. 

Chicken Livers en Brochette, 769. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Preserved Apricots, 1340. 

Cancl)on. 

Lobster en Brochette, 361. 

Beeisteak Pie i TAnglaise, 487. 

Spinach, with eggs, 943. 

Macddoine Salad, 1063. 

Huckleberry Tarts, 1113. 



Hinner. 



Oysters, 298. 

Giblet k I'Anglaise, 22. 

Sardines, 283. * Celery, 290. 

Bass k la Chambord, 343. 

Stewed Veal k la Grecque, 626. 

Edible Snails k la Bourguignonne, 393. 

Artichokes, Barigoul, 897. 

Roast Plover, 865. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

CrSme en mousse, 1260. 

Sweet Almond Macaroons, 12x0. 

Coffee, 1349. 



38 



THE TABLK. 



Thursday, February  . 



Bakfa0t. 



Slinner. 



Eggs i I'lmperatrice, 440. 

Broiled Pig's Feet, maJtre d'hJtel, 727, 145 

Smoked Beef, with Cream, 486. 

Potatoes Hollandaise, 999. 

Brioche, 1201. 



Cttntl)on. 



Oyster Patties, 387. 
Sirlcin Steak & la Duchesse, 494. 

Potatoes Chateau, 1009. 

Lobster Salad k la Plummer, 1062. 

Vanilla Eclairs, 1245 



Clams, 300. 

Consomme Rachel, 123. 

Radishes, 292. Olives. 

Crabs, St. Laurent, 372. 

Fanpiette of Veal, puree of Chestnuts, 594. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 

Chicken Saute, with tarragon, 774. 

Asparagus a la Tessinoise, 906. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Celery, Mayonnaise Salad, 1042. 

Parfait au CafiS, 1295. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, February 



BrcakfaBt. 



!Dmnr. 



Omelet, with fine Herbs, 451. 

Haddock, Cream sauce, 352, i8x.  

Brochette of Lamb k la Colbert, 674, igo 

Saratoga Potatoes, loii. 

Buckwheat Cakes, 1x83. 



Ciincl)on. 



Fried Smelts, Tomato sauce, 301, 205. 

Leg of Mutton, Bretonne, 650. 

Spaghetti k I'ltalienne, 960. 

Russian Salad, 1065. 

Blackberry Pie, 1097 



Oysters, 298. 

Bisque of Clams, 8. 

Celery, 290. Olives. 

Lobster k TAmericaine, 357. 

Broiled Tenderloin k la Nivemaise, 505. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Stuffed Pig's Feet, P^rigueux, 732. 

Goose, stuffed w^th Chestnuts, 808. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Custard Pudding, 11 54. 

Brie Cheese. 

Coffee, Z349. 



Saturday, February 



Brcakfaat. 



JUinncr. 



E^gs a la Reine, 438. 

Broiled Fresh Herrings, anchovy butter, 329, 

Minced Veal k la Catalan, 575. [146. 

Stewed Carrots, and Cream, 927. 

Peach Marmalade, 1331. 



imit\^ 



eon. 

Broiled Lobster, Tomato sauce, 364, 205. 

Stewed Lamb, and Potatoes, 708. 

Broiled Fresh Mushrooms on Toast, 9x6. 

Apples, with Rice, 1169. 



Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Cauliflower, 73. 

Celery, 290. Radishes, 292. 

Bluefish k I'Icarienne, 336. 

Roast Sucking Pig, Apple sauce, 720. 

Stuffed Green Peppers, 975, 

Turkey's Legs k la Diable, 766. 

Beans Panaches, 950. 

Roast Spring Lamb, Mint sauce, 1361, 169, 

Lettube Salad, 1058. 

Charlotte Russe, 1261, 

Coffee, Z349. 



MENUS. 



Sunday, February 



33rakfast. 

Omelet, with Cheese. 469. 
Broiled Mutton Chops, Parisian potatoes. 647, 
Tripe Saute k la Creole, 545. [986, 
Wheat Cakes, 1184. 



Cunrl)on. 

Canape Madison, 260. 

Broiled Sirloin & la Moelle, 493. 

Spaghetti Napolitaine, 959. 

String Bean Salad, 1068. 

Frangipani Tarts, xizx. 



Hinncr. 



Oysters h. I'AIexandre Dumas, 299. 

Consomme Chdtelaine, 128, 

Radishes, 292. Tomatoes, 288. 

Bass a la Venitienne, 338, 

Chicken Saut^ k la Marengo, 771. 

Sweet Potatoes Hollandaise, 999. 

Sweetbreads, larded k la Soubise, 606. 

Carrots, with Cream, 927, 

Punch k la Lorenzo Delmonico, 1303. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Barbe de Capucine Salad, 1038. 

Cabinet Pudding k la Sadi-Carnot, 1164, 

Strachiilo Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, February 



Breakfast. 



HDtnncr. 



Eggs k la Bonne Femme, 432. 

Cod's Tongues k la Poulette, 351. 

Tenderloin of Fork, sauce piquante, 741, 203. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021, 

Waffles, with Sugar, 1196. 



Cttnl)on. 



Hashed Lamb k la Polonaise, 700, 
Escalops of Veal, Jardiniere, 56S. 

Succotash, 1022. 
Shrimp Salad, 1067. 

Pear Pie, 1084. 



Clams. 300. 

A la Russe, 55. 

Olives. Bologna Sausage, 286. 

Halibut, Lobster sauce, 309-158. 

Corned Beef, with Kale sprouts, 490. 

Potatoes k la Windsor, 1008. 

' Sweetbreads k la Beamaise. 610. 

Green Peas k la Bourgeoise, 970. 

Roast Chicken, with Watercress, 755. 

Doucette Salad^ 1052. 

Apple Charlotte, 1x67. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday^ February  . 



Breakfast. 

Omelet R^gence, 470- 

Broiled Ham, 753. 

Lamb Chops k la Robinson, 682. 

Lima Beans, 95s. 

Stewed Plums, 1337. 

Ctrncl)on. 

Broiled Deviled Lobster, butter sauce, 364, 
Stewed Tripe k la Lyonnaise, 548. 
Fried E^g-plant, 907. 
Apple Fritters, 1191* 



1S9- 



inner. 

Oysters, 298. 

Crabs, with Gumbo^ 24. 

Radishes. 292. Olives. 

Smelts, Toulouse, 354. 

Tendron of Veal a la Chipolata, 636. 

Chicken Saut6 k la Parmentier. 773. 

Tomatoes k la Bock, 1026. 

Roast Squabs, 8x6. 

Beet-root and Doucette Salad, 10J3. 

Almond Cake, X224. 

Neufchatel Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



40 



THE TABLE, 



Wednesday^ February  . 



BreakfaBt. 



5D inner. 



Eggs & la Hyde, 448. 

Broiled Boned Smelts, tartare sauce^ 354, 207 

Escalops of Veal au Jus, 568,  

Hashed Potatoes, 100s. 

Milan Cake, 1228. , 



Cttntl)on. 



Welsh Rarebit, 294. 

Bass, with fine Herbs, 323. 

Broiled Porterhouse Steak, 524. 

Macaroni Croquettes, 279. 

Pumpkin Pie, , 1099. 



Oystere, 398. 

Brunoise, with Sorrel, 4. 

Celery, 29a. Olives. 

Salmon Cutlets, Victoria, 366. 

Antelope Steak, Currant jelly, 890, 

Oyster Plant k la Poulette, 1019. 

MignOn Filets, with Marrow, sio. 

Cauliflower, sauce Hollandaise, 925. 

Upland Plovers, sur canape, 865. 

Escarole ^lad, 1055. 

Coffee Ice Cream, 1273. 

Fancy Almond Cakes, 1239. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday^ February 



Breakfast. 

Omelet, with Chicken Livers, 464. 

Broiled Sardines on Toast, 403. 

Broiled Calfs Liver and Bacon, 584. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Brioche Fluttes, 1204. 

Cttnd)on. 

Sott Clams k la Newburg, 390. 
Lamb Stewed k la Creole, 711. 

Herring Salad, 1074. 

Cherry Tarts, mi. 



JUmnfr. 



Claii^, 300. 

Cream of Barley, 77. 

Radishes, 292. Cucumbers, 289. 

Shad, with Sorrel, 327. 

Chicken Saut^ k la Bohemieni^e, 778. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023^ 

Coquilles of Sweetbreads k la Dreux, 621. 

New Peas, with cream, 9S0. 

Roast Turkey; 00. 

Lettuce Salad, 1059. 

Bak^d Apple Dumplings, 1122. 

. Coffee, 1349. 



Friday^ February  . 



jBreakfaBt. 



Hominy and. Cream, 1034. 

Scrambled I^gs, with Truffles, 407. 

Ficked-up Codfish, 346. 

Sausages,' with White Wine, 735. 

Potatoes, maHre d'hdtel, 985. 

Corn Fritters, 965, 



Ciinc|)on. 



Skate, with black butter, 325, 159. 

Corned Beef Hash en Bordure, 531. 

Stuffed Egg-plant, 909. 

Stewed Peaches, 1334. 



JUinner. 



Oysters, 298. 

Consomme k TAfricaine, ii6. 

Radishes, 292, Caviare, 281. 

Biuefish k ITtalienne, 33^. 

Tenderloin Pique k la Provengale, 518. 

Cauliflower au Gratln, 926. 

Veal Cutlets k la Mafechale, 562. 

String Beans, 948. 

Doe-birds k TAm^ricaine, 840. 

Chicory Salad, 1046. 

Apples Meringuees, i248< 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



41 



Saturday, February  . 



Breokfast. 

Omelet Raspail. 467. 

Hashed Mutton au Gratin, 653. 

Pig*s Feet i la Boston. 730. 

Succotash, 1022. 

French Pancake. 1186. 

unl)on. 

.Croinesquis aux Truffes, 268. 

Cairs Head kla Financifere, 637. 

Stewed Sweet Potatoes, 995. 

Rum Omelet, 476. 



Dinner. 

Clams, 300. 

Purde of Chestnuts, 91. 

Celery, 290. Olives. 

Sole & la Normande, 318. 

Antelope Chops, port wine sauce, 891. 

Potatoes Chateau, 1009. 

Chicken Saut6 i la Bordelaise, 776, 

Asparagus, drawn butter, 904-157. 

Roast Mutton. 585. 

Celery Salad, 1043 

Savarin kl'Anglaise, 1199. 

Coffee, 1349* 



Sunday^ February 



Breakfast. 

Oatmeal, with Cream. 

E^s k la Meyerbeer, 437. 

Broiled Deviled Kidneys, 715. 

Potatoes & la Rice, 1007. 

Malaga Grapes. 

Cuncljeon. 

Broiled Pompano, maltre d'hfitel, 329. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 

Mutton Chops, Soyer, 647. 

Spaghetti au Gratin, 961. 

Sago Pudding, 1140. 



?Iltnner. 



Oysters, 298. 

Cream k I'AUemande, 84. 

Radishes, 292. Celery,-290, 

Lobster & la Newburg, 359. 

Broiled Tenderloin & la Trianon, 507. 

Potatoes k la Hanna, zoiz. 

Lamb Chops, maison d'or, 683. 

Spinach, with CroOtons, 943. 

Punch k la Frangaise, 131 1. 

Roast English Snipe, 868. 

Barbe de Capucine Salad. 1038. 

Macedolne Glacee k la Cavour, 1298. 

Stilton Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday^ February  . 



Breakfast. 

Omelet, with Smoked Beef, 461. 

Fried Oysters, 380. 
Lamb Steak kTAm^ricEune, 718. 

Lima Beans, 952. 
Brioche, 1201. 

Cncl)on. 

Timbales k I'Ecossaise, 361. 

Tendron of Veal, Morlaisienne, 635. 

Sweet Potatoes Souffl^es, loio. 

Lobster Salad, 1061. 

Apple Pie, 1083. 



Hlxnnfr. 



Clams, 300. 

Consommi d'Orleans, no. 

Olives. Cucumbers, 289. 

Shad, vert pri, 328. 

Cromesquis of Chicken k la Richelieu, 764. 

Cairs Liver, braised, Bourgeoiae, 583. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Maraschino Puddmg, ii34> 

Coffee, 1349. 



42 



THE TABLE. 



Tuesday, February  



38akfast. 



Wmxitx. 



Lobster Omelet, 454. 

Hashed Turkey k la Cr^me, 804. 

Lamb's Tongues, sauce piquante, 203. 

Stewed Potatoes, 994. 

Stewed Quinces, 1338. 



Oysters & la Baltimore, 388. 

Brisbtm of Veal kl'Ecarlate, 555. 

Macaroni au Gratin, 955. 

Baked Apple5i|,ii24. 



Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Celery kl'Espagnole, 86. 

Celery, 290. Radishes, 292. 

Oyster Crabs k la Poulette, 374. 

Civet of Hare k la Franjaise, 893. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Squabs en Compote, 822. 

String Beans k I'Anglaise, 948. 

Roast. Capon, 755. 

Dandelion Salad, 1048. 

Baba, with Rum, 1217. 

Domestic Brie Cheese. 

Coffee, X349. 



Wednesday, February  . 



Eggs k la Tripe, 419. 

^alTs Brains, brown butter, 557. 

Lamb Chops kla Signora,68x. 

Hashed Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. 

Rice k la Frangaise, 1x80. 



Cuncl)con. 



Lobster en Chevreuse, 362, 

Breast of Veal k la Milanaise, 596. 

Carrots and Cream, 927. 

Spaghetti Napolitaine, 939. 

Custard ^ie, xioo. 



JBtnncr. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Chicken k la Creole, 65. 

Radishes, 292. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Bass k la Bordelaise, 341. 

Broiled Sirloin Steak kla Moelle, 493. 

String Beans au Blanc, 947. 

Salmi of Duck a la Chasseur, 828. 

Celery, with gravy, 928. 

Roast Saddle of Lamb, 664. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 
Chocolate Pudding, 1146. 
Coffee, 1349. I 



Thursday, February  . 



jBreakfaBt. 

Omelet Espagnole, 472, 

BroUed Perch, mattre d'h6tel, 329. 

Black Sausages, with mphed Potatoes, 719. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Whipped Cream \ la Vanille, 1254. 



Cuncl)on. 



Fried Oysters, 380. 

Broiled Chickens' Legs 4 la Diable, 766. 

Spinach, with Eggs, 943. 

Lamb's Tongue Salad, 1056. 

Mince Pie, 1082. 



Dinner. 

Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Dubourg, loi, 

OUves. Mortadella, 287. 

Red-snapper, Caper sauce, 352^651. 

Turban of Chicken k la Cleveland, 791. 

Potatoes Duchesse, 1006. 
Sweetbreads, Larded k la Cardinal, 602. 

. Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Roast Ptarmigan, with Watercress, 862. 

Lettuce Salad, 1058. 

Fruit Pudding, ii6i. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 43 



WASHINGTON'S BIRTHDAY. 
Friday, February  . 

Balrfiaat. 

Eggs ^ la Bechamel, 416. 

Oysters en Brochette au Petit Sale, 385. 

Minced Lamb k I'Anglaise, 688. 

Potatoes, maStre d'hfttel, 985. 

French Pancake, with jelly, 1x87. 

Cncl)on. 

Crabs k la St. Jean, 371. 

Stewed Veal k la Chasseur, 632. 

Stuffed Egg-plant, 909. 

Caulifiower Salad, 1040. 

Coffee EcUirs, 1244. 

flJinncr. 

Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Cream Palestine, 74. 

Tomatoes, 388. Celery, 290. 

Shad, with fine Herbs, 323. 

Supreme of Chicken k la Bayard, 787. 

Broiled Tomatoes, 1025. 

Lamb Steak, with pur6e of Chestnuts, 7i6-i3t. 

Stewed Mushrooms on Toast, 9x4. 

Roast Squabs, 816. 

Celery Salad, 1042. 

Pie k la Martha Washington, 1x05. 

Coffee, 1349. 



44 



THE TABLE. 



Saturday, 'February  



UrtakfttBt. 

Omelet k la Vanderbilt, 471. 

Tripe k la Bordelaise, 544. 

Mutton Kidneys, with Bacon^ 66z. 

Turnips, cream sauce, 967, x8i. 

Apples, with Rice, 1169. 



uncl) 



)on. 

Stuffed Oysters k la Mali, 386. 

Epigrammes of Lamb k la Chicor^e. 690, 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

String-Bean Salad, 1068. 

Peach Tarts, 1x06. 



SDtnncr. 



Oysters, 298. 

Consommd au Sago, 104. 

Then, 282, Radishes, 292. 

Bass k la Bordelaise, 341. 

Tenderloin of Beef Piqu6, sauce P^rigueux, 

5x6, 191- 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Sweetbread Croquettes, with Peas, 620. 

Roast Teal Ducks, 859. 

Tomato and Lettuce Salad, 1060. 

Charlotte Panach^e, 1300. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday^ February 



Breakfast. 



Poached Eggs on Toast, Anchovy butter, 

404, 146. 

Whitebait, 301. , 

Smoked Beef, with Cream, 486. 

Potatoes k la Rice, 1007. 
Preserved Raspberries, 1346. 



Cunil)on. 



Broiled Spanish-mackerel, mattre d'hAtel, 329. 

Cucumber Salad, 289, 

Beefsteak Pie k.l'Americaine, 488. . 

Omelet au Kirscll, 476. 



Oysters, 298. 

Green Turtle, i6. 

Olives, Radishes, 292, 

Small Bouch^es k la Reine, 270. 

Terrapin k la Baltimore, 396. 

Mignon Filets, with Mushrooms, 5x4. 

Fresh Green Peas k I'Anglaise, 978. 

Fricassee of Chicken, with Curry, 7^2. 

Lima Beans, 952, 

Punch en Surprise, 1309. 

Red-head Duck, 876. 

Lettuce Salad, X05S. 

Plum Pudding, XX63. 

GorgonzoHa Cheese. 

Coffee, X349. 



Monday^ February 



Breakfast. 

Eggs, with Tarragon, 429. 

Broiled Veal Kidneys k la Diable, 7x5. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Tripe k la Mode de Caen, 547. 

Peach Marmalade, X331. 



ttncl) 



)on. 

Stewed Oysters k la Pompadour, 384. 

Mutton Chops, Soyer, 647. 

Sp^hetti, with black butter. 954, 159. 

Anchovy Salad, X037. 

Hot Savarin, 1198. 



Wxmtx, 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Pur^e of Lima Beans, 49. 

Sardines, 283. Celery, 290. 

Sheep's-head k la Creole, 339. 

Shoulder of Lamb k la Macedoine, 697. 

Risotto, 1017, 

Chicken Vol-au-Vent, with Mushrooms, 8xo. 

Roast Loin of Pork, 75X. 

Barbe de Capucine Salad, 1038." 

Meringues Glac^es, X30X. 

Coffee, X349. 



MENUS. 



45 



Tpesday, February 



rtakfast. 



!Dinnn\ 



Scrambled Eggs, with Mushrooms, 405. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Minced Beef kl'Italienne, 500. 

Oyster-plant, Cream sauce, 1020. 

Rice k TAirolo, 1171. 



ttncl)eon. 



Broiled Lobster, Ravigote sauce, 363. 

Blanquette of Veal k I'Ancienne, 553. 

Tomatoes' k la Marseillaise, 1029, 

Pineapple Pie, 1087, 



Oysters, 298. 

Chicken k la Turque, 69. 

Cucumbers, 289. Radishes, 293. 

Fried Oyster Crabs, 375. 

Stewed Antelope, sauce poivrade, 886. 

Mushrooms, with Cream, 915. 

Croquettes of Lamb k la Patti, 679. 

Potatoes Bignon, looi. 

Teal Duck k FAm^icainc, 840. 

Doucette Salad, 1054. 

Tapioca Pudding, 1X4X. 

. Roquefort Cheese, 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, February - 



Breakfast. 

Omelet, with Peas, 459. 

Broiled Ham, 753. 

CalTs Liver k I'Alsacienne, 582. 

Hashed Potatoes au Gratin, 998. 

Wheat Cakes. 1184. 

ttncl)on. 

Crabs k la St. Laurent, 372. 

Sausages k la Gastronome, 740, 

BroQed Tomatoes, 1025. 

Potato Salad, 1073. 

Boiled Apple Dumplings, 1127. 



JDxnner. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Tomatoes and Rice, 57. 

Olives. Celery, 290, 

Bluefish k I'ltalienne, 337. 

Tenderloin, Marinaded, Russian sauce, 511. 

Beans Panaches, 950. 

Lamb Chops k la Signora, 681. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Roast Chicken, 755. 

Celery, Mayonnaise Salad, 1042. 

Biscuits Tortoni, 1287. 

Petites Bouchees k la Mme. Astor, 1238, 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday^ February 



Brfakfast. 

Kidney Omelet, 463. 

Oysters k la Poulette, 383. 

Hamburg Steak, Colbert sauce, 526, 190. 

Stewed Sweet Com, 964, 
Crdme en Mousse au Maraschino, 1257. 



JDinntr. 



Cuncl)on. 



Canape Madison, 269. 

Salmi of Duck k la Marechale, 831. 

Spinach a la Vieille Mode, 941. 

Beef Salad, 1039. 

Apple Tarts, 1120. 



Oysters k ^Alexandre Dumas, 299. 

Chicken k I'HoUandaise, 64. 

Sardines, 283. Radishes, 291 

Skate, with black butter, 325, 159. 

Potatoes a la Windsor, 1008. 

Saddle of Mutton k la Sevigne, 66g. 

Lima Beans, cream sauce, 952, 181, 

Larded Sweetbreads au Salpicon, 605. 

Fresh Asparagus, melted butter, 904^ 155. 

Roast Loin of Veal, 585. 

Lettuce and Egg Salad, 1058. 

Nelson Pudding, 1155. 

Coffee, 1349. 



46 



THE TABLE. 



Friday March  . 



Bieakfast. 



Eggs a la Post, 1359. 

Picked-up Codfish, 346. 

Pig's Feet a la St. Hubert, 727. 

Potatoes, Hollandaise, 9g0. 

Stewed Quinces, 1338. ' 

Cuncl)on. 

Scallops, poulette sauce 392,598. 

Veal Cutlets k la Mar^chale, 562. 

Potatoes, Julienne, 1013. 

Lobster Salad a la Boardman, X361. 

Plum Pudding, 1163. 



SItnner. 



Clams, 300. 

Puree of Green Peas, 49. 

Olives. Radishes, 

Bass ^ la Bordelaise, 341. 

Hashed Turkey, with Cream, 804. 

Lamb Chops k la Villeroi, 686. 

Spinach au Crofltons, 943, 

Roast Chicken, 755. 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Baba, 12x6. 

Coffee^ 1349- 



Saturday, March  . 



Srtakfast. 

Eggs a la Livingstone, 4x0. 

Breaded Broiled Lamb Fries, Tomato 5auce,673. 

Mignon Filets k la Parisienne, 514. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Corn Fritters, 965/ 



?Dinnr. 



ttncl)on. 



Stuffed Deviled Crabs, 370. 

Stewed Mutton k la Parisienne, 70S. 

Broiled Chicken Livers au Petit Sale, 769. 

Choux a la Cr6me, 1246. 



Oysters, 298. 

Ox-Tail a I'Ecossaise, 39. 

Celery, 290. Lyons Sausage, 286, 

Perch aux Fines Herbes, 331. 

Pork Chops, Apple sauce, 748. 

Succotash, X022. 

Chicken, Saute k la Maryland, 785. 

Green Feas a I'Anglaise, 978. 

Roast Plovers, 865. 

Dandelion Salad, X049. 

Charlotte Russe, 1261, 

CoflFee, 1349, 



Sunday, March 



Breakfast. 

Eggs k la Suisse, 441. 

Rice k I'Airolo, 1x71. 

Corned Beef Hash au Gratin, 529. 

Sausages a I'Anglaise, 736. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1037. 

Waffles and Sugar, 1x96. 



Cttncljcon. 



Lobster k la Newburg, 359. 

Stewed Veal, with Oyster-plant, 630. 

Macedoine Salad, X063. 

Rice and Orange Pudding, 1130. 



?Dmnr. 



Oysters, 298, 

Potage k la Dorsay, 96. 

Celery, 290. , Radishes, 292. 

Sole Joinville^ 322. 

Squabs en Crapaudine, 819. 

Potatoes, Duchesse, xoo6. 

Antelope Steaks, pur^e of Chestnuts, 882. 

Risotto, 1017. 

Punch k la Cardinal, 1306. 

Roast Tenderloin of Beef, 516. 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad, jo6o. 

Omelet Soufflee, 474. 

Camembert Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



47 



Monday., March 



BrtakfaHt. 

Barley, with cream. 

Fish Balls k la Mrs. Harrison, 347. 

Mutton Kidneys k la Diable, 715. 

Potatoes k I'Hollandaise, 999. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Stewed Prunes, 1330. 



tincl)eon. 



JDinncv. 



Oysters Fried a la Arthur Sullivan, 1360. 

Game Pie a la Levi P. Morton, 1362. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Rhubarb Tarts. 1112. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Printanier Chasseur, 52. 

Olives. Thon, 282. 

Salmon en Papillotes, 302. 

Sirloin  Steak, with Marrow, 493. 

Potato^, Chateau, 1009. 

Duck a la^Rouennaise, 825. 

Asparagus, HoUandaise, 904. 

Roast Mutton, 585. 

Romame Salad, 1064. 

Tutti Frutti k la Gen. Harrison, 1364. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday^ March  . 



Breakfast. 



JBxnner. 



Eggs a la Duchesse, 449. 

Broiled Sardines on Toast, 403. 

Mignon Filets, Anchovy butter, 509, 146. 

Broiled Sweet Potatoes, 983. 

"Whipped Cream a la VaniUe, 1254. 



tincl)on. 



Stuffed Deviled Clams, 376. 

Stewed Lamb, Louisianaise, 710. 

Timbales a la Schultze, 263. 

Cocoanut Fie, iioi. 



Oysters k TAlexandre Dumas, 299. 

Giblet k I'Anglaise, 22. 

Celery, 290. Radishes, 292. 

Broiled Shad, 326. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 

Piloff of Chicken a la Turque, 782. 

Potatoes en Surprise, 1005. 

Spring Lamb Chops k la Soubise, 647, 250. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975, 

Roast Teal Duck, 859. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Rice klaCond^, iz8i. 

Coffee, Z349. 



Wednesday^ March  . 



Breakfast. 



.719- 



Eggs k la Paysanne, 433. 

Chicken Hashed au Gratin, 805. 

Black Sausage, with mashed potatoes, 

Carrots and Cream, 927. 

Stewed Apricots, 133s. 

Cuncl)on, 

Oysters a la Villeroi, 381. 

Mutton Kidneys en Brochette, with bacon, 661, 

Chicory, with gravy, 933. 

Calfs Liver Saute k la Proven9ale, 581. 

Onions, with cream, 968. 

Chocolate Eclairs, 1243. 



Dinner. 

Clams, 300. 

Consomm^ aux Quenelles* 129. 

Sardines, 283. Radishes, 292. 

Bass k la Chambord, 343. 

Civet of Antelope k la Fran9aise, 893. 

Noix of Veal k la Bourgeoise, 590, 583. 

Tomatoes k la Bock, ZO26. 

Roast Rice-birds, 877. 

Lettuce, Mayonnaise salad, 1042. 

Baba, creme k la vanille, 12x8. 

Coffee, 1349. 



48 



THE TABLE. 



Thursday^ March  . 



Omelet, with fine herbs, 451. 
Boiled Codfish, oyster sauce, 352. 
Mutton Chops k la Robinson, 682. 

Potatoes, maftre d'h6tel. 985. 
Apple Fritters, 1191. 



JUinnn-. 



Cuml)coti. 



Smelts, with white wine, 342. 

filanquette of Veal, with nouilles, 55a. 

Fried. Egg-plant, 907. 

Rum Cake, 1229. 



Oysters, 398, 

Puree of Tomato ^ I'Andalouse, 58. 

Olives. Radishes, 292. 

Croquettes of Lobsters, sauce aurora, 365, 182. 

Boiled Turkey, oyster sauce, 797. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

Roast Tenderloin of Beef k I'Hussarde, 519. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Roast English Snipe, 868. ^ 

Dandelion Salad, 1049. 

Peach Ice-cream, 1276. 

Biscuits Ambroisienne, 1234, 

Gruyire Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday^ March 



33reakfa0t. 

Eggs, with brown butter, 414. 

Broiled Shad, maitre d'hdtel, 326. 

Pig's Feet k la Boston, 730. 

Saratoga Potatoes, loii. 

Buckwheat Cakes, 1183. 



Cancl)on. 



Crabs k I'Anglaise, 373. 

Epigramme of Lamb, Macedoine, 689. 

Lima Beans, 952. ' 

Cold Bass en Remoulade, 209. 

Pineapple Fritters, 1191. 



JBtnncr. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Cream of !Rice, 78. 

Tomatoes, 288. Celery, 290. 

Codfish, egg sauce, 352, 161. 

Salmi of Doe-birds a la Gastronome, 842. 

String Beans, with butter, 94S, 

Veal Cutlets k la Philadelphie, 565. 

I Roast Leg of Lamb, 648. 

Barbe de Capucine Salad, 103S. 

Custard Pudding, 1154. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday^ March  . 



Breakfaat. 



Omelet, with Sardines, 468. 

Haddock, cream sauce, 352, 181. 

Hamburg Steak, Russian sauce, 526. 

Mashed Potatoes au Gratin, 998. 

Brioche, 1201. 



Cttncl) 



Red-snapper a la maitre d'h6te], 329. 

Fricandeau of Veal, with sorrel, 577. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027!, 

Plum Tarts, 11 10. 



SIxnnev. 

Oysters, 298. 

Shin of Beef, liee, pp. 

Radishes, 292. Anchovies, 284. 

Oyster Patties, 3S7, 

Pigeon Cutlets, Victoria, 815. 

Asparagus a laTessinoise, 906. 

Croustade of Kidneys a la Perigueux, 680, 191. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Celery, Mayonnaise salad, 1042. 

Charlotte Russe, 1261. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



49 



Sunday, March  . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs k I'Aurore, 444. 
Fried Smelts, tartare sauce, 301, 207. 
Broiled Calf's Liver and Bacon, 584. 

Fried Potatoes, 993. 

Stewed Apples, 1332. 



Ctincl)on, 



Lobster k F Americaine, 357. 

Irish Mutton Stew, 660. 

Com Stewed with butter, 964. 

Deviled Lamb Fries, mfdtre d'hdtel, 672, 

Tomato Salad, 1070. 

Caramel Pudding, 1x66. 



JDtnncr. 



Oysters k 1' Alexandre Dumas, 299. 

Fotage k la Montmorency, 97. 

Olives. Celery, 290. 

Sheep's-head au Gratin, 319, 

Broiled Tenderloin of Beef k la Cheron, 5^. 

Parisian Potatoes, 986. 

Coquilles of Sweetbreads k la Dreux, 621. 

Punch en Surprise, 1309. 

Roast Chicken, 755. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057, 

Neapolitan Ice-cream, 1392. 

i45> Biscuits k la Richelieu, 1232. 

Roquefort Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349' 



Monday^ March 



BrcakfdHt. 



Omelet R^gence, 470. 

Oysters en Brochette au Petit Sale, 385. 

Smoked Beef, with cream, 486. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Iced Timbale of Rice, 1175. 



Cuncl)on. 



Stuffed Oysters a la Mali, 386. 
Lamb en Brochette k la Dumas, 674. 

Stuffed Egg-plant, 909. 

Chicken Croquettes, with peas, 376. 

Pear Tarts, 1109. 



JUinnfr. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Sorrel Fermiire, 81. 

Celery, 290. Sardines, 283, 

Fresh Mackerel, with white wine. 342. 

Curry of Lamb k I'lndienne, 677. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 102 1. 

Chicken Saute k la Bordelaisc, 776. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Roast Leg oi Lamb, 64B. 

Doucette Salad, 1054. 

Se^o Pudding, 1140. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday, March  . 



Breakfast. 



!]Dinncr. 



Eggs a la Turque, 439. 

Brofled Perch, tomato sauce, 353, 205. 

Hashed Lamb a la Polonaise, 700. 

Saratoga Potatoes, zoix. 

Stewed Peaches, 1334. 

iDttnl)i)n. 

Oysters a la Baltimore, 388. 

Veal Cutlets a la Milanaise, 563. 

Potatoes a la Rice, 1007. 

Turban of Apples, 1174. 

4 



Oysters, 998. 

Beef k I'Ecossaise, 5. 

Tomatoes, 288. Olives. 

Red-snapper k I'HoUandaise, 317. 

Balotine of Squab k I'ltalienne, 8x8, 

Shoulder of Lamb, jardiniere, 696. 

String Beans, 948. 

Roast Plovers, 865, 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Almond Cake, 1224. 

Coffee, 1349. 



50 



THE TABLE. 



Wednesday, March 



Uwakfaat. 

Omelet Raspail, 467. 

Broiled Spanish-mackerel, 329. 

Saus^es k I'ltalienne, 737. 

Mashed Potatoes, 998. 

Milan Cake, 1228^ 

Cunc|)Ott. 

Crabs k la St. Jean, 371. 

Stewed Beef a la Turque, 542. 

Saratoga Potatoes, loix. 

Stuffed Egg-plant, gog. 

Apricot Pie, 1092, 



SDtmter. 



Clams, 300. 

Consomme au Semoule, 104. 

Celery, 250. Radishes, 292. 

Salmon k la Creole, 339. 

Chicken Fricassee k la Reine, 780, 

Cauliflower, with butter, 925. 

Fresh Artichokes k la Barigoul, 897, 

Roast Snipe sur Canape, 868. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Maraschino Pudding, Z134. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday^ March 



Breakfast. 

Scrambled Eggs, with truffles, 407. 

Cods* Tongues, black butter, 349, 

Lamb en Brochette k la Dumas, 674. 

Hashed Potatoes, 1002. 

Cr^me en Mousse au Cafe, 1253. ' 



Cmtcl)on. 



Broiled Pompano, maitre d'h6tel, 329, 

Calfs Head k la Cavour, 638. 

Oyster-plant k la Poulette, 1019. 

Tongue Salad, 1056. 

Cherry Tarts, iiii. 



^Dinner, 

Glen Cove Clams, 300, 

Cream of Lentils a la Major-domo, 88. 

Radishes, 292, Olives. 

Lobster Cutlets, sauce Colbert, 366, igo. 

Broiled Tenderloin k la Florentine, 506. 

Stewed Flageolets, 947. 

Salmi of Duck, with olives, 827. 

Brussels Sprouts, 923. 

Roast Mutton, 585. 

Lettuce, Mayonnaise salad, 1042, 1057. 

Baked Apple Dumplings, T]i2. 

Gorgonzolla Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday^ March  . 



BreakfaBt. 



Omelet k I'Espaghole, 472. 

Scallops k la Poulette, 392, 598: 

Chicken Livers, sautds au madfere, 767. 

Potatoes k I'Hanna, 1012. 

Small Brioches, 1202. 



Cuncl) 



Broiled Boned Smelts, tartare sauce, 353, 207, 

Stewed Lamb, with Peas, 706. 

String-Bean Salad, 1068. 

Stewed Green-gages, 1336. 



Blue Point Oysters, 298, 

Frogs a I'Espagnole, 25. 

Celery, 290. Radishes, 292. , 

Lobster en Chevreuse, 362. 

Brisotin of Veal, poivrade sauce, 554, 194. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Chicken Pot-pie, 757. 

Roast Rhode Island Turkey, 800. 

Dandelion Salad, 1049. 

Orange Pudding, 1158. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



51 



Saturday, Miirch 



Breakfaet. 



Eggs k la Valencienne, 421. 

Fried Sole, sauce tartare, 320, 207. 

Amourettes of Lamb k la Diable, 673. 

Potatoes k 1' Anglaise, 988. 

French Pancake, 11S6. 



ttncl)on. 



Oyster Patties, 387. 

Chicken Croquettes k la Reine, 758. 

French Peas. 

Beef Salad, 1039. 

Boiled Peach Dumplings, 1125. 



JDinncr. 



Little Neck Claras, 300. 

Ox-Tail k I'Anglaise, 40. 

Olives. Cucumbers, 289. 

Bass k la Bordelaise, 341. 

Salmi of Plover k la Modeme, 870. 

Turnips, with gravy, 967. 

Mignon Filets k la Bohem^enne, 513. 

Asparagus, Hollandaise, 904. 

Roast Goose, B08. 

Barbe de Capucine Salad, 1038. 

Apple Pudding, 1152. 

Coffee, 1349. ' 



Sunday, March 



Breakfast. 

Omelet, with cheese, 469. 

Picked-up Codfish, 346. 

Minced Beef k la Cat^an, 502. 

Hashed Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. 

Oatmeal, with cream. 



tnnt^tan. 



Canape Lorenzo, 391. 

Broiled Spring Chickens, 756, 

Sweet Potatoes k rHollandaise, 999. 

Russian Salad, 1065. 

Chat^sons, 1236. 



Dinner, 

Oysters k I'Alexandre Dumas, 299. 

Pur^e Faubonne, 46. 

Sardines, 283. * Celery, 290. 

Shad, vert-pr6, 328. 

Shells of Sweetbreads k la Cardinal, 623. 

Artichokes k la Florentine, 903. 

Breast of Turkey k la Robinson, 807. 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Punch k la Delmonico, 1303. 

Roast Squab sur Canap^, 816. 

Celery, Mayonnaise salad. 1042. 

Raspberry Water-ice, laSi. 

Lady-fingers, 1231. 

Gorgonzolla Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, March  . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs k la Meyerbeer, 437. 

Aiguillettes of Bass, with White Wine, 341. 

. Chicken Livers en Brochette, with bacon, 769. 

French Fried Potatoes, 993. 

Stewed Apples, 1332. 



Ilxnner. 



jDnncljf 



Welsh Rare-bit, Golden Buck, 295. 

Shoulder of Lamb, puree Normande, 694. 

Spinach au Crofltons, 940. 

Herring Salad, 1074. 

Rhubarb Pie, 1085. 



Clams, 300. 

Printanier Grinat, 51. 

Olives. Radishes, 292. 

Codfish k I'HoUandaise, 317. 

Mignon Filets k la Pompadour, 509. 

French String Beans, 948. 

Chicken Saut6 k la Ch. C. Delmonico, 1355. 

French Peas. 

Roast Reed-birds, 877. 

Doupette Salad, 1052. 

Rice Pudding, 1143. 

Coffee, 1349. 



52 



THE TABLE. 



Tuesdqff, March  . 



JSrcakfoBt. 

Shrimp Omelet, 453. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Hashed Beef au Gratin, 653, 

Saratoga Potatoes, loiz. 

Baked Apples, 1124. 

Cnncl)con. 

Oysters en Brochette au Petit Sale, 385, 

Stewed Veal & la Grecque, 626. 

Cauliflower Salad, 1040. 

Gooseberry Tarts, 11 14. 



JH inner. 



Blue Point Oysters, 298, 

Consomm^ Napolitaine, 37, 

Celery, 290. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Bass, Anchovy sauce, 352, 163. 

Braised Beef k la Bignon, 484. 

Sorrel, with Eggs, 974. 

Pigeon Cutlets k la Victoria, 815. 

Flageolets, 1365. 

Roast Spring Lamb, 1361. 

Escarole salad, 1055. 

Baba au Rhum, 1217. 

Imported Brie Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday^ March  . 



ISrcakfaBt, 



Eggs au Miroi#, 425, 

Broiled Pickerel, maitre d'h6tel, 329. 

Cairs Liver i. PAlsacienne, 5S2. 

Stewed' Potatoes, 995. 

Red Currant Jelly, 1326. 



Ctmcl)Mn. 

Scallops Brestoise, 392. 

Stewed Beef k la Dufour, 541. 

Macaroni au Gratin, 955, 

Apple Meringue Pie; 1103. 



Wvmtx. 

Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Fotage k la Windsor, 94. 

Sardines, 283. Radishes, 29s 

Broiled Shad Roe, 402. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 

Supreme of Chicken k la Patti, 789. 

String Beans Bretonne, 949, 

Mignons of Lamb, sauce Beamaise, 1360. 

Spinach and Eggs, 940. 

Roast English Snipe, 868. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Meringues Panachees, 1302. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday, March  . 



I5rakfa0t. 

Kidney Omelet, 463. 

Shad, mattre d'hfitel, 326. 

Veal Cutlets, Tomato sauce, 563. 

Stewed Carrots, with Cream, 927. 

Whipped Cream k la Vanille, 1^54. 

Cunri)on. 

Stuffed Deviled Crabs, 370. 

Beef Tongue, Jardiniere, 535. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Strawberry Tarts, T117. 



SDtnncr. 

Rockaway Oysters, 298. 
Sorrel, with Rice, 42. 
Olives. Radishes, 

Cod's Tongues, black butter, 349, 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Balotine of Lamb, with Peas, 675. 

Chicken Saut6 k la Marengo, 771. 

Stuffed Cucumbers, 937. 

Roast Loin of Veal, 585. 

Chicory Salad, 1046. 

English Pudding, 1137. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



53 



Friday, March  . 



Breakfast. 

Omelet, with Asparagiis-tops, 458. 
Skate, with black butter, 325, 159. 

Pig's Feet k la Poulette, 731. 
Potatoes Julienne, 1013. 

Preserved Green-gages, 1344. 



Dinner. 



CunrI) 



con. 

Broiled Spanish-mackerel, 329. 

Broiled Philadelphia Spring Chickens, 756. 

French Peas. 

Tomato Salad, 1070. 

Vermicelli Pudding, 1142. 



Clams, 30o 

Puree Soubise, with White Beans, 92. 

Celery, 290. * Olives. 

Perch h. la Toulouse, 354. 

Antelope Steak, Port Wine sauce, 8gi. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. 

Fricandeau of Veal, with Spinach, 578. 

Roast Squab, 816. 

Lettuce and Egg Salad, 1058. 

Macaroon Ice-cream, 1290. 

Lady-fingers, 1231. 

Domestic Brie Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday^ March  . 



Brcakfaet. 



Smoked Beef Omelet, 4^1. 

Broiled Smelts, B^amaise sauce, 353. 

Lamb Steak k I'Americaine, 718. 

Potatoes, maitre d'h6tel, 985. 

Apples and Rice, 1169. 



Cnncl)eon. 



Matelote of Eels, 332. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Corned Beef, with Kale Sprouts, 490. 

Plum Pie, 1094. 



JDmncr. 

OjTSters, 298. 

Consomm^ Dubourg, loi . 

Radishes, 292. Thon, 283. 

Sheep's-head aux fines Herbes, 333. 

Epigrammes of Lamb, Louisianaise, 691. 

Stuffed Lettuce, 953. 

Salmi of Ptarmigan k la Chasseur, 864. 

Tomatoes kla Reine, 1034. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Dandelion Salad, Z049. 

Apricot Pudding, 1151. 

Coffee, X349. 



Sunday^ March 



33reakfa0t, 

Boiled Eggs. 

Broiled Pompano, m^dtre d'hdtel, 329. 

Flat Sausages, with mashed Potatoes^ 719. 

Turnips and Gravy, 967. 

Creme en Mousse au Kirsch, 1256. 



Wmxitx. 



Ctinc^con. 



Broiled Shad, 326. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 

Boiled Turkey, Celery sauce, 796. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Frangipani Tarts, 1121. 



Shrewsbury Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Tapioca, 104. 
Radishes, 392. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Smelts k la Toulouse, 354. 
Tenderloin of Beef, marinaded, Russian sauce, 

S". 

Succotash, Z022. 

Saddle of Lamb k la S^vign^, 669. 

Romaine Punch, 1304. 

Roast Goose, 808. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Iced Diplomatic Pudding, 1288. 

Strachino Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



54 



THE TABLE. 



Monday, March  . 



JBrcakfttBt. 



Omelet with Cipes, 460. 

rish Balls, 347. 

Minced Beef a la Catalan, 502, 

Potatoes Gastronome, 1000. 

Peach Marmalade, 1331. 



Cnncljf 



Oysters k la Poulette, 383, 

Braised CalPs Liver, Bourgeoise, 583. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 

Timbales ii la Schultze, 263. 

Savarin. 1197. 



!!ltnnn'. 



Clams, 300. 

Spaghetti, with Tomatoes, 56, 

Tomatoes, 288, Olives. 

Salmon Croquettes, Cream sauce, 364, 181. , 

Croustade of Kidneys ila Perigueux, 686, 191. 

Chicken Saute, with'Tarragon, 774. 

Potatoes k I'Hanna, 1012. 

Roast Mutton, 585. 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Fruit Pudding, 1161. 

Coffee, 1 349. 



Tuesday^ March  . 



Bnakfast. 

Scrambled Eggs, with Asparagus-tops, 406. 

Broiled Sardine on toast, 403. 

Lamb Chops, sauce Colbert, 647, 190. 

Potatoes Lyonnaise, 991. 

Maraschino Jelly, 1319. 

nncl)on. 

Stuffed Deviled Clams, 376. 

Hamburg Steak, Poivrade sauce, 526, 194. 

Broiled Tomatoes, 1025. 

Iced Timbale of Rice, 1175, 



WmMx, 



Blue Point Oysters, 298. 

Clear Green Turtle, 18 

Radishes, 292. Caviare, 28 

Red-snapper, Re;Aoulade sauce, 309, 209, 

Sirloin Steak ^ la Parisienne, 495. 

Potatoes k la Windsor, 1008, 

Broiled Sweetbreads, Colbert sauce> 617. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Roast Chicken, 755. 

Watercress Silad, 1072. 

Rum Cake, 1229. 

Coffee, 1349. ' 



Wednesday^ March  . 



jBreakfaai 

Omelet, with fine Herbs, 451, 

Codfish, cream sauce, 352, 181. 

Mashed Potatoes, 998. 

Corned-beef Hash enbordure, 531. 

Malaga Grapes. 



ttncl)on. 



Stuffed Deviled Lobster, 367. 

Grenadin of Veal, with mashed Peas, 586. 

Sweet Potatoes soufilees, loio. 

Boiled Apple Dumplings, 1122, 



JDtnnfr. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Brunoise, with Rice, 3. 

Olives. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Bass k la Chambord, 343. 

Leg of Mutton k la Conde, 649. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Chicken Livei-s, with Madeira Wine, 767, 

Asparagus, sauce HoUandaise, 904. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Tomato, Mayonnaise salad, 1071. 

Iced Pound Cake, 1193. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENU^. 



55 



Thursday, March  , 



Sfcakfttst. 



Hinncv. 



Poached Eggs on toast, anchovy butter, 404. 

Fried Whitebait, 30T. 

Tripe k la Bordelaise, 544. 

 Hashed Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. 

Crme-en-mousse au maraschino, 1257. 



Cttncl)eon. 



Crabs & la St. Jean, 377. 

Hashed Turkey en bordure, 805. 

Stewed Lima Beans, 952. 

Pumpkin Pie, 1099. 



Blue Point Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Lima Beans, 75. 

Celery, 290. Thon, 282, 

Salmon k I'lrlandaise, 307. 

Shoulder of Lamb, Flamande, 699. 

Risotto, 1017. 

Sweetbreads, larded, with Mushrooms, 609. 

Green Peas h. I'Anglaise, 978. 

Roast Red-head Ducks, 876. 

Watercress Salad, 1072, 

Charlotte Russc, 1261. 

Stilton Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday^ March  . 



Breakfaet. 

Tomato Omelet, 456. 

Shad, with Sorrel, 327 . 

Potatoes, maitre d'h6tel, 985. 

Spaghetti au Gratin, 961. 

Rice and Milk, 1177. 

uncl)on. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Stewed Beef aTEgyptienne, 540, 

Rice k la Ristori, 1016. 

Lobster Salad, io6i. 

Peach Tarts, 1106. 



JDinner. 

Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Onion, 13a. 

Sardines, 283. Olives. 

Red-snapper, Egg sauce, 309, 161. 

Mutton Chops, Napolitaine, 646. 

Beans Panaches, 950. 

Chicken Croquettes k I'Ecarlate, 760. 

Cauliflower, Hollandaise, 925, 160. 

Roast Com Plovers, 865. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Baba au Mad^re, 1217. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday^ March 



BreakfaBt. 

E^gs k la Tripe, 419. 

Fried Sole, Colbert sauce, 320. 

Hashed Mutton en bordure, 653. 

Potatoes en paille, 1014. 

Com Fritters, 965. 



uncl)on. 



Broiled Veal Kidneys, with Bacon, 713. 

Braised Beef en Daube, 483. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. 

Allumettes, 1205. 



Pinner. 



Rocka way Oysters, 298. 

Chiffonade, 14. 

Anchovies, 284, Tomatoes, 288. 

Codiish, sauce Hollandaise, 352, z6o. 

Minced Veal k la Catalan, 57s, 

Chicory, Cream sauce, 932. 

Broiled Sirloin k la B^amaise, 492. 

String Beans, 948. 

Roast Leg of Mutton, 648. 

Dandelion salad, 1049. 

Chocolate Ice-cream, 1272. 

Petites Bouch^es k la Mme. Astor, 1 238. 

Ccffee, 1349- 



56 



THE TABLE. 



Sunday, March 



ISrcakfoat 



W\ 



Omelet & la Vanderbilt, 471 . 

Boned Broiled Smelts, Beamaise sauce, 553. 

Tripe k la Lyofinaise, 548. 

Fried Potatoes, 993. 

Stewed Prunes a la General Dufour, 1330. 



Ctincl)on. 



Cromesquis aux iines herbes, 368, 143. 

Stewed Veal k la Marengo, 624. 

Spaghetti NapoHtaine, 959. 

Chicken Salad, 1044. 

Rice and Orange Pudding, 1130. 



Jinncr. 

East River Oysters, 298 . 
Consomm6 Imperial, iii. 
Radishes, 292. 

Shad with sorrel, 327. 

Tenderloin of Beef, larded, with stuffed 

tomatoes, 5x6, 1023. 

Supreme of Chicken k la Rothschild, 790. 

Fresh Asparagus, 904. 

Punch k la Lalla Rookh, iy^. 

Roast English Snipe. 868. 

Barbe de Capucine Salad, Z038. 

Omelet Soufflee, 474. 

Pont PEveque Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



OliveSk 



Monday^ April 



Breakfast. 



Dintin'. 



Eggs a la Livingstone. 4x0. 

Fillets of Sole k la Horly, 321. 

Corned Beef Hash a la Zingara, 530. 

Potatoes au Gratin, 1004.' 

Strawberries and Cream; 



Ctincl)on. 



Stuffed, Deviled Crabs, 370. 

Blanquette of Veal k la Reine, 550, 

Lamb Tongue Salad, 1056. 

Cream au Cognac, 1258. 



Clams, 300. 

"Skxk d'ltalie, 103. 

Sardines, 283 Olives. 

Broiled Trout, maitre d'h6tel, 314. 

Sirloin Piqu6 h. la Bordelaise, 491, 

Spinach, with Eggs, 940. 

Pigeon Cutlets i la Victoria, 815. 

Succotash, 1022. 

Roast Hindquarter of Spring Lamb, 1361, 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Baba, 1216. 

Brie Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday^ April  . 



I3rfakfa0t, 



Omelet, bonne femme, 466, 

Broiled Bee&teak, 524, 

Cairs Brains, black butter, 557. 

Hashed Potatoes. 1002, 

Brioches & la Condd, 1203. 

Ctincl)on. 

Scallops Brestoise, 392. 

Mutton Stew, Fermifcre, 655. 

Shrimp Salad, 1067. 

Plum Pie, 1094. 



HDinncr. 



03rsters, 398. 

Mock Turtle, 17. 

Thon, 282. Celery, 290. 

Bluefish k la Bordelaise, 341. 

Mignons Filets k la Pompadour, 509. 

Oyster-plant a la Poulette, 1019. 
Antelope Steaks, Colbert sauce, 881. 

String Beans, 948. 

Roast Rhode Island Turkey, 800. 

Chicory Salad,. 1045. 

Chocolate Ice-cream, 1272. 

Sweet Almond Macaroons, 1210. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



57 



Wednesday, April 



Uvcalffaat. 

f^gSj with black butter, 414. 

Spring Lamb Chops, with Bacon. 647, 754. 

Sausages, with White Wine, 735. 

Saratoga Potatoes, ion. 

Waffles and Sugar, iig6. 

Cnncl)on. 

Smelts, sauce B6amaise 353. 

Braised Beef k la Mode, 479. 

Stewed Com, 964. 

Tomato Salad, 1070. 

Coffee Eclairs, 1244. 



Hinner. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Puree Jackson, 43. 

Lyons Sausage, 286. Radishes, s 

Kingfish, maitre d'hdtel, 329. 

Potatoes HoUandaise, 999. 

Brisotin of Veal & I'Ecarlate, 555. 

Spbach, with gravy, 943. 

Broiled Turkey Legs k la Biable, 766. 

Mushrooms on Toast, 914. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Dandelion Salad, 1048. 

Omelet C^lestine, 477. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday^ April  . 



Brfakfast. 



Dinner. 



Omelet Raspail, 467. 

Hashed Lamb k I'Anglaise, 688. 

Broiled CalTs Liver, maJtre d'hOtel, 584, 145. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Rice Cake, 1222. 



Cttnrl) 



l)con. 

Broiled Trout au Petit Sali. 314, 754. 

Stewed Beef, Dufour, 541. 

French Peas. 

Croquettes of Sweetbreads, with Mushrooms, 

620, 230. 

Huckleberry Tarts, 1113. 



Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Printanier Royale, 124, 

Radishes, 292. Celery, 290, 

Shad, with fine Herbs, 315. 

Fricandeau, with Sorrel, 577. 

Piloff of Chicken a la Turque, 782. 

Beans Panaches, 950. 

Roast Squab, 816, 

Barbe de Capucine Salad, 1038. 

Peach Pudding k la Richelieu, 1150. 

Swiss Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday^ April  . 



iBreakfast, 



IDinner. 



H^gs au Miroir, 425. 

Broiled Fresh Mackerel, 329. 

Mutton Chops k la Provenjale, 642. 

Lima Beans, 952. 

Galette, 1221. 



Cuncl) 



on. 

Frogs iU Poulettc, 399. 
Chicken Pot-pie, 757. 

Risotto, 1017. 

Lobster Salad, 1061. 

French Pudding i la Delmonico, 1 139. 



Clams, 300, 

Puree of Crecy, 47. 

Tomatoes, 288. Olives. 

Bass a la Chambord, 343. 

Porterhouse Steak k la Bordelaise, 491. 

Stewed Oyster-plant, 1018. 

Sweetbreads k la Financii:re, 603. 

Fresh Peas, 978. 

Roast Spring Chicken, 755. 

Chicory Salad, X046. 

Kirsch Jelly, 1319. 

Cheddar Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



58 



THE TABLE. 



Saturday, April  . 



Breakfdat. 



Omelet, with Chicken Livers, 464. 

Broiled Smelts, Tartare sauce, 353, 207. 

. Pig's Feet, St. Hubert, 727. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Stewed Apricots, 1335. 



Cunclje 



)eon. 

Fried Whitebait, 301. 

Braised Noix of Veal ii la Providence, 590. 

Spinach k TAnglaise, 940. 

Mac^doine Salad, 1063, 

Chocolate Eclairs, 1243. 



IDinncr. 



Shrewsbury Oysters, 298. 

Giblets, with Barley, 21. 

Bologna Sausages, 286. Radishes, 293. 

Fresh Mackerel, Colbert, 329, 190. 

Croustade of Chicken Livers, 763, 

Turnips, with gravy, 967. 

Lamb Sweetbreads en caisses, 274. 

Artichokes Barigoul, 897. 

Snipe sur Canapi^, 868. 

Boucette Salad, 1054. 

Cocoanut Pudding, 1147. 

Coffee, 1349, 



Sunday^ April 



33rakfa0t. 



Eggs, with Tarragon, 429. 

Haddock, Cream sauce, 352, 181. 

CalPs Liver Saut^ k I'ltalienne, 580 

Com, stewed with butter, 964. 

Cream Renversee, 1252. 

Cancl)on. 

Sole au Gratin, 319. 

Stewed Beef k la Dufour, 541. , 

Broiled Tomatoes, 1025, 

Timbales k la Schultze, 263. 

Fresh Strawberry Tarts, 1117, 



Dinner. 



Blue Point Oysters, 298. 

Consomm6 Princesse, 113. 

Olives. Radishes, 292, 

Stuffed Lobster, 367. 

Saddle of Mutton, Londonderry sauce, 668. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 

Coquilles of Chicken, with Mushrooms, 271, 

Fresh Asparagus, 904. [230. 

Punch au Kirsch, 1305. 

Roast Teal Ducks, 859. 

Celery, Mayonnaise Salad, 1042, 

Rum Cake, 1229. 

Gorgonzolla Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday^ April 



jBreakfaat. 



Omelet, with fine Herbs, 451, 
Hamburg Steak, Russian sauce, '526. 
Kidneys, stewed with Madeira, 662. 

Saratoga Potatoes, ioit. 
Rice and Cream k la Croce, 1296. 

Ctinrl)on. 

Gerthins Welsh Rarebit, 296. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Hashed Turkey, with Cream, 804. 

Russian Salad, 1065. 

Custard Pie, 1100. 



JUtnncr. 



Little Neck Clams, 300.' 

Brunoise, with Sorrel, 4. 

Radishes, 292. ^ Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Shad, vert-pre, 328. 

Sweetbreads k la Catalan, 6x6. 

New String Beans au blanc, 947. 

Balotine of Lamb augus, 675. 

French Peas. 

Roast Goose, 808. 

Watercress Salad, 1072, 

Apple Fritters, 1191. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



59 



Tuesday, April 



Breakfaat. 



JDinnn". 



Eggs ii la Reine, 438. 

Codfish Tongues, with. black butter, 349. 

Tripe k la Lyonnatse, 548. 

Stewed Turnips, 967. 

Brioche, 1201. 



Ctttlcl)OTl. 



Broiled Trout, maitre d*h6tel, 314. 

Cucumber Salad, 2S9. 
E^calops of Veal k la Duxelle, 569. 

Mashed Potatoes, 998. 
Mille Feuilles, 1223. 



East River Oysters, 298. 

Ox-tail, with Barley, 38. 

Olives. Radishes, 292. 

Bouch^es & la Reine, 270. 

Beef Tongue & la Gendarme, 532, 

Tomatoes k la Bock, 1026. 

Haricot of Lamb k la Providence, 701. 

Beans Panaches, 950. 

Roast Squab, 816, 

Lettuce Salad, io57> 

Charlotte Russe, 1261. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday^ April  . 



jBrcakfast. 



Plain Omelet, 450. ' 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Mutton Chops, with Watercress, 647. 

Julienne Potatoes, 1013. 

Brioches Fluttes, 1204. 



Cttncl)on. 



Smelts, with White Wine, 342. 

Hambiurg Steak, Russian sauce, 526, 

Cauliflower. Hollandaise, 925, 

Madeleine, 1226. 



Dinner. 



Clams, 300. 

Jardiniere, 28, 

Tomatoes, 288. Olives. 

Bass en Matelote, 332. 

Reast Ham, Champagne sauce, 723. 

Stewed Com, 964. 

Antelope Chops, Port Wine sauce, 891. 

Stuffed Green Peppers, 975. 

Roast Beef, 527 . 

Barbe de Capucine Salad, 1038. 

Vanilla Ice-cream, 1271. 

Petites Bouch^es des Dames, 1237. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday^ April 



Breakfast. 

Eg^ h. I'Aurore, 444. 

Broiled Salt Mackerel, 329. 

Hashed Beef au Gratin, 329' 

Fried Onions, 969. 

Rice and Milk, 1x77. 

uncl)con. 

Broiled Shad's Roe, with bacon, 402, 

Lamb Steaks k TAm^ricaine, 718, 

Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. 

Home-made Cake, 1220, 



IDinner. 



Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Consomm6 Renaissance, 115. 

Radishes, 292. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

White Perch, Tartare sauce, 353, 207. 

Curry of Lamb & I'Indienne, 677 

Turnips, with gravy, 967. 

Chicken Vol-au-vent \ la Financiite, 810. 

Spring Lamb, Mint sauce, 1361, 169. 

Dandelion Salad, 1049. 

Apples Meringu^es, 1248. 

Imported Brie Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



6o 



THE TABLE. 



Friday f April  . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs k la Bennett, 447. 

Picked-up Codfish, 346, 

Sheep's Feet i la Poulette, 654. 

Spaghetti k I'ltalienne, 960. 

' Stewed Prunes, 1330. 



Cuncl) 



Gromesquis k la Reine, 765. 

Trout, Ravigote butter, 147. 

Minced Tenderloin a la Portugaise, 501, 

Fried Egg-plant, 907; 

Rhubarb Pie, 1085. 



HJinner. 



Oysters, 298. 

Gumbo of Frogs, 23. 

Olives. Tomatoes, 288. 

Bass a la B^amaise, 353. 

Sweetbreads au Salpicon, 605, 

Pigeons en compote, 822. 

Sorrel, with gravy, 974. 

Roast Tiurkey, 800. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Almond Cake, glac^, 1208. 

Coffee. 1349. 



Saturday^ April  ^, 



Breakfaat. 

Eggs k la Suisse, 441. 

Broiled Boned Smelts, maitre d'hdtel, 355, 145. 

Lamb Steak, 718. 

Potatoes Sautees au beurre, 994. 

Milan Cake, 1228. ' 

tincl)on. 

Stuffed Deviled Crabs, 370. 

Veal Stew k la Marengo, 624. 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Maraschino Jelly, 1319. 



IPtniter. 



Little Neck Clams, 300, 

Julienne, 27. 

Sardines, 283. Cucumbers, 289. 

Red-snapper, Egg sauce, 352, 161. 

Tenderloin of Beef k la Charon, 504. 

Oyster-plant k la Poulette, 1019. 

Salmi of Snipe k la Modeme, 870. 

Spinach, maitre d'hdtel, 942. 

Roast Mutton, 585. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Lemon Pudding, 1157. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday^ April  . 



Breakfast. 



^Dinner. 



Chicken Liver Omelet, 464. 

Broiled Shad's Roe, maitre d'h6tel, 402. 

Sausages k I'ltalienne, 737. 

Fried Oyster-'plant, 1021. 

Crme en Mousse au Cafe, 1253* 



Ctincl}on. 



Long Island Smelts au Gratin, 355. 

Tripe k la Bordelaise, 544. 

Spaghetti NapoUtaine, 959. 

Timbales Lagardfere, 809. 

Pineapple Tarts, 1115. 



Blue Point Oysters, 298. 

Chicken k la Pi^montaise. 63. 

Celery, 290. Radishes, 292. 

Boiled Salmon, Oyster sauce, 303. 

Escalops of Sweetbreads a la Richelieu, 574. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

Chicken Saut^ k I'Hongroise, 772, 

Green Peas k I'Anglaise, 978. 

Romaine Punch, 1304. 

Roast Grass Plover, 865. * 

Lettuce, Mayonnaise salad, 1042, 1057. 

Strawberry Shortcake, 1214. 

Strachino Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



61 



Monday, April 



BveakfoBt, 

Scrambled Eggs, with chicory, 409. 

Broiled Lamb Frira, Tomato sauce, 673. 

Bee&teak, with watercress, 524. 

Potatoes, maitre d'hdtel, 985. 

Strawberries and Cream. 

Cnml)eoTi. 

Codfish ^ rHollandaise, 317. 
Veal Cutlets, Pagasqui, 560. 

Carrots and Cream, 927. 

Cauliflower Salad, 1040. 
Raspberry Tarts, 1118, 



JDtnnev. 

Little Neck Clams, 3CX}, 

Potage k la McDonald, 95. 

Olives. Mortadella, 287. 

Bluefish au Gratin, 319. 

Turkey Legs k la Diable, 766. 

Potatoes k rHollandaise, 999. 

Lamb Chops, maison d'or, 683. 

String Beans k I'Anglaise, 948. 

Snipe sur Canap^, 868. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Stewed Peaches, 1334. 

Bitter Almond Macaroons, 1209. 

' Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday^ April  . 



Unakfast. 



Omelet a I'Espagnole, 472. 

Broiled Bluefish, maitre d'hdtel, 329. 

Brochettes of Lamb a la Dumas, 674. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Stewed Green-gages, 1336. 



ttttcl)on. 



Oysters a la Baltimore, 388. 

Bee&teak Pie kTAmericaine, 488. 

Fried Egg-plant, 907. 

Rum Omelet, 476. 



^Dinner. 



Outers, 298. 

Consommi Pure, 100. 

Anchovies, 284. Radishes, 292. 

Broiled Pompano, 329. 

Potatoes, Windsor, 1008. 

Chicken Croquettes, with mushrooms, 276. 

Saddle of Venison, Currant Jelly sauce, 878. 

Fresh Asparagus, 904. 

Roast Leg of Mutton, 648. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Cold Maraschino Pudding, iz34t 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday^ April  . 



I^uakfast. 



E^gs k la Meyerbeer, 437, 

Fried White Perch, Colbert sauce, 301, 190. 

Broiled Calf s Liver and Bacon, 584. 

Potatoes Lyonnaise, 991. 

Sherry Wine Jelly, 1318. 



Cuncl)con. 



Canape Lorenzo, 391- 

Eroled Beefsteak, Marrow sauce, 493. 

Spaghetti au Gratis 961. 

Suedoise Salad, 1069. 

Strawberry Pie, 1095. 



JBinner. 



Massachusetts Bay Oysters, 298. 

Mutton k I'Ecossaise, 31. 

Radishes, 292. Olives. 

Fresh Mackerel, St. Nazaire, 329 236. 

Mignons Filets k la Lorillard, 1364. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023, 

Supreme of Chicken Ji !a Toulouse, 786. 

New String Beans, 945. 

Brochette of Reed-birds, with Bacon, 877, 754. 

Barbe de Capucinc Salad, 1038. 

Coffee Ice-cream, 1273. 

Galette, 1221. 

Coffee, 1349. 



62 



THE TABLE. 



Thursday, April  . 



Brcakfaat. 

Ham Omelet, 462. 

Fried Whitebait, 301. 

Minced Veal k la Catalan, 575. 

Stewed Carrots and Cream, 927. 

Strawberries and Cream, 

Cuncl)on. 

Scallops Brestoise, 392. 

Fork and Beans, 752. 

Crao Salad, 1047. 

Rice Cake k la Mazzini, 1230. 



JBtnnn-. 



Linn Haven Oysters, 298 . 

Consomm6 d'Orleans, 110. 

Tomatoes, 288. . Olives. 

North River Shad, maitre d'hdtel, 326. 

Cucumber Salad^ 289, 

Haricot of Lamb kla Providence, 701. 

Balodne of Squab k Tltalienne, S18. 

Fresh Peas, 978. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Dandelion Salad, with eggs, 1049. 

Apples Meringuees, 1248. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday y April 



33rakfa0t. 

Lobster Omelet, 454. 

Broiled Fresh Mackerel, maitre d'hdtel, 329. 

Lamb Mignons, Madeira sauce, 1360, 185. 

Sweet Potatoes, stewed, 995. 

Brioches Fluttes, 1204. 



Dinner, 



Cunclje 



5 eon. 

Kingfish, with sorrel, 327. 

Blanquette of Veal, with nouilles, 552. 

Potatoes, Hollandal^e, 999. 

Lobster Salad, io6z. 

Baked Apples, 1124. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Cream of Asparagus, 70. 

Celery, 290. Mortadella, 287, 

Oyster Patties, 387. 

Roast Ham, with sweet corn, 724. 

Spinach, with eggs, 943. 

Breast of Lamb, Jardiniere, 702. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Roast Turkey, 800. 

Doucette Salad, 1052, 

Baba, with rum, 1217. 

Coffee, i349> 



Saturday^ April  , 



33rakfa0t. 

I^gs k la Tripe, 419. 
Mutton Hash a la Zingara, 652. 
Black Sausage, with mashed potatoes, 719. 
Rice k la Croce, 1296.  

Cuncl)on. 

Lobster en Brochette, 361. 

Porterhouse Steak, 524. 

Carrots and Cream, 927, 

Maccaroni Croquettes, 279. 

Mille Feuilles, 1223. 



Dinner. 

Keyport'Oysters, 298, 

Chicken Hollandaise, 64. 

Radishes, 292. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Fillets of Bass, with White Wine, 342. 

Sweetbreads kla Montglas, 615. 

String beans, 945. 

Boiled Turkey, Oyster sauce, 797. 

Stuffed Green Peppers, 975. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

E^carole Salad, 1055. 

Nelson Pudding, 1155. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



Sunday, April 



Brcakfaat. 

Omelet & la VapderbiU, 471. 

Boiled Skate black butter, 325, 159. 

Calfs Feet, sauce piquante, 599. 

Stewed Potatoes, 995, 
hipped Cream & la Vanille, 1254. 



^Dinner. 



ttncl)eon. 



Salmon, with Anchovy butter, 303, 146. 
Braised Beef k T Orsini, 481. 

Spirach, with E^gs, 940. 

Timbales k la Schultze, 263. 

Mince Fie, 1082. 



Mill Pond Oysters, 298. 

Potage of Rice k la Maintenon, 98. 

Radishes, 292. Olives. 

Broiled Trout, maitre d'h6tel, 314. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 

Breast of Lamb, Jardini&re, 702. 

Chicken Fricass^ k la Reine, 780. 

Fresh Green Peas, 978, 

Punch k la Cardinal, 1306. 

Snipe sur Canap^, 868. 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad, xo6o. 

St. Honore kla Rose Delmonico, 1212. 

Roquefort Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday^ April  . 



33rakfa0t. 



JDinner. 



OatmeaL 

Eggs a TAlsacienne, 443. 

Broiled Veal Cutlets, sauce piquante, 564, 203. 

Tripe a Id Creole, ^i, 5. 

Potatoes maitre d'h6tel, 985. 

Stewed Pears, 1333- ' 

Cuncl)on, 

Golden Buck, Welsh Rarebit, 295. 

Bee&teak Pie, k I'Anglaise, 487. 

Anchovy Salad, 1037. 

Vermicelli Pudding, 1142. 



Little Neck Clan^, 300. 

Consomm6 Patti, 136. 

Tomatoes, 288. Olives. 

Lobster Croquettes, sauce Colbert, 365. 

Saddle of Mutton, Poivrade sauce, 667. . 

Sorrel au gras, 974. 

Salmi of Snipe k la Walter Scott, 856. 

Roast Mushrooms on Toast, 916. 

Roast Reed-birds, 877. 

Tomato Salad, Mayonnaise, 1071. 

Omelet Soufflee, 474. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday^ April 



BrcakfaHt. 



IDinner, 



Omelet, with Green Peas, 459. 

Lobster Cutlets, Victoria,; 366. 

Breaded Mutton Chops, Tomato sauce, 643, 205 

Fried Egg-plant, 907. 

Apples, with Rice, Meringuees, 1169. 



Cttncl) 



)eon. 

Broiled Oysters on Toast, 382. 

Mignons Filets, marinaded. RtUisian sauce, 511. 

Potatoes en paille, 1014. 

Stewed Artichoke Bottoms, 897. 

Pear Pie, open, 1088. | 



Doxie Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Clear Green Turtle, 18. 

Then, 282. Radishes, 293. 

Shad, vert-pri, 328. 

Curry of Lamb k la Creole, 678. 

Balotine of Squab, k I'ltalienne, 8x8. 

Fresh Asparagus, Hollfmdaise, 904. 

Roast Sirloin of Beef, 527. 

Dandelion Salad, 1048, 

Tutti Frutti, 1293. 

English Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



64 



THE TABLE. 



Wednesday, April 



Breokfaat. 



SDinnfr. 



Poached Eggs on Toast, 404. 

Broiled Kingfish^ maitre d'hdtel, 329. 

Stewed Chicken Livers, with Madeira 767. 

Potatoes k la Rice, 1007. 

Stewed Apples, 1332. 

Cuncl)on. 

Sheep's-head k la Creole, 339. 

Calf s Head k la Cavour, 638. 

French Peas, 

Beef Salad, 1039. 

' Strawberry Tarts, 1117. 



Cherry-stone Oysters, 298. 

Menestra, 36. 

Olives. Caviare, 381. 

Bass k Ip Chambord, 343. 

Lamb Chops, maison d'or, 683. 

Beans Panaches, 950. ^ 

Antelope Steak, puree of Chestnuts, 882. 

Spinach, 940, 

Roast Ptarmigan sur Canape, S62. 

Lettuce, Mayonnaise Salad, 1042. 

Plum Pudding, 1163. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday^ April 



33rakfa0t. 



JDtnner. 



' Sausage Omelet, 465. 

Scallops, Tomato sauce, 392, 205. 

Mignons Filets, with Anchovy butter, 509, 146, 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Strawberries and Cream. 



Ctincl)Ott. 



Broiled Trout, with fine Herbs, 313. 

Chicken Croquettes k PEcarlate, 760. 

Spaghetti, with Cream, 954. 

Savarin, 1197. 



Oalc Island Oysters, 29S. 

Consomme Tapioca, 104. 

Sardines, 283. Radishes, 39a. 

Timbales k I'Ecossaise, 261. 

Shoulder of Lamb, Rouennaise, 698, 

Risotto, 1017, 

Coquilles of Sweetbreads k la Reine, 623, 

Roast Squabs, with Watercress, 816. 

Barbe de Capucine Salad, 1038. 

Banana Ice-cream, 1277, 

Lady-fingers, 1231, 

Coffee, 1349. 



' Friday y April  , 



ISrcakfafit 

Scrambled Eggs, with mushrooms, 407. 

Oysters en brochette, with Bacon, 385. 

Sausages k la Gastronome, 740. 

Macaroni, with Cheese, 956. 

Preserved Cherries, 1347. 

Cuncljeon. 

Lobster k la Diable, 364. 

Stewed Mutton, Portugaise, 658. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 

Iced Timbale of Rice, 1175. 



^Dinner. 

Shrewsbury Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Artichokes, 72. 

Radishes, 292. Celery, 290. 

Pompano au Gratin, 319. 

Tenderloin Pique k la Sevigne, 520. 

Broiled Spring Chickens, 756. 

Broiled Mushrooms, 916. 

Roast Teal Ducks, 859. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Apple Cake, 1211. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



65 



Saturday, April  . 



Brtokfast. 

E^gs h. la Froven9ale, 422. 

Fried Frost-fish, 301. 

Bee&teak k la Moelle, '493. 

Broiled Tomatoes, 1025. 

French Pancake, with Jelly, 1187. 



nncl)on. 



Broiled Shad, maUre d'h6tel, 326. 

Blanquette of Veal, with Peas, 551. 

Tomatoes k ta Marseillaise, 1029. 

Boiled Apple Dumplings, 1x27. 



JD inner. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

' Pur^e Conde, 48. 

Olives. Thon, 282. 

Smelts, Tartare sauce, 353, 207. 

Amourettes of Lamb, Tomato sauce, 673, 

String Beans, 948. 

Salmi of Ptarmigan, Chasseur, 864. 

Asparagus, sauce HoUandaise, 904. 

Roast Loin of Veal, 585. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Pudding k la U. S. Grant, 1159. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday^ April  . 



BrmkfaBt. 



^Dinner. 



Kidney Omelet, 463. 

Shad, White Wine sauce, 342. 

Veal Cutlets k la Milanaise, 563. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Crme en Mousse au Maraschino, 1257. 

Cnncl)on'. 

Salmon a la Regence. 305. 

Squabs a la Chipolata, 821. 

Stewed Okras k la Creole, 1031. 

Salad k I'ltalienne, Z036. 

Charlotte Russe, X26z. 



Blue Point Oysters, 298. 

Chicken k la Richmond, 62. 

Radishes, 292. Olives, 

Timbales of Nouilles k la Genoise, 262. 

Spring Lamb Chops, Colbert sauce, 647, 190. 

Green Peas, 980. 

Broiled Tenderloin k la Trianon, 507. 

Asparagus k ta Tessinolse, 906. 

Champagne Punch, 1307. 

Roast Capon, 755. 

IjCttuce, French dressing, 1070. 

Strawberry Shortcake, 1214. 

Gorgonzolla Cheese. 

Coffeeti349. 



Monday y April 



Breakfast. 



Eggs a la Bechamel, 416. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Brochettes of Lamb k la Dumas, 74. 

Mashed Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. 

Rice and Milk, 1177. 



Cunl)eon. 



Stuffed Oysteis k la Mali, 386. 

Roulade of Beef k I'Ecarlate, 539. 

Potatoes Hollandaise, 999. 

Tongue Salad, 1056. 

Cranberry Pie, 1095. 



JDinncr. 



Prince's Bay Oysters, 298. 

Paysanne, 53. 

Radishes, 292. A"Kchovies, 284. 

Bass, sauce Hollandaise, 309, 160. 

Calf s Brains, sauce Tartare, 559. 

Stewed Corn, 964. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton, Caper sauce, 651. 

Spinach au CroAtons, 943. 

Roast Ptarmigan, S62. 

Dandelion Salad, 1049. 

Baba, 12x6. 

Coffee, 1349. 



66 



THE TABLE. 



Tuesday, April  . 



Urtokfoat, 

Omelet, with fine Herbs, 451. 

Broiled Pickerel, butter sauce, 329, 155. 

Hashed Chicken en Bordurc, 805. 

Stiewed Beets, 9Z1. 

Corn Fritters, 96s/ 

Cuncl)Ott. 

Canap^ Lorenzo, 391. 

Minced Veal & la Catalan, 5751 

Beans Panaches, 950, 

Bermuda Potato Salad, 1073. 

Allumettes, 1205 . 



IDinncr. 



Clams, 300. 

Tomato k I'Andalouse, 58. 

Olives. Green Peppers. 

Trout k la Chambord, 313, 

Sirloin Piqu^ k la Duchesse, 5x6, 

Stuffed Tomatoes k 1% Reine, 1024. 

Stewed Antelope h. la Frangaise, 887. 

Artichokes k la Duxelle, 898. 

Roast Turkey, cranberry sauce, 800, 1329. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

M6ringues Glacees, 130X. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday^ May  ;. 



ISreakfaat. 



Eggs k la Bonne Femme, 432. 

Porgies k la Horly, 321. 

Pig's Feet, sauce Robert, 728. 

Mashed Potatoes, k rHollandaise, 999, 

Blackberries and Cream, 



tinrl)on. 



Oysters en Brochette au Petit Sale, 385. 

Stewed Lamb, with Flageolets, 707. 

Tongue Salad,' 1056. 

Peach Tarts, zio6. 



JUinncr. 



Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Barley, 77. 

Olives. Caviare, 281. 

Bass en Matelote, 332. 

Beef-tongue, Napolitaine. 534, 

Artichokes, !^arigoul, 897. 

Squabs en Crapaudine, 8x9. 

New String Beans, 948. 

Roast Mutton, 585. 
Dandelion Salad, 1049. 
Cream Renversee, 1252. < 
Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday, May  . 



Breakfast. 



JDtnner. 



Tomato Omelet, 456. 

Broiled Kingfish, 329. 

Lamb Chops au Petit Sal6, 682, 754. 

Potatoes Julienne, 10x3. 

Rice Cake, 1222. 

Cuncljcon. 

Stuffed Deviled Clams, 376. 

Veal Cutlets en Papillotes, 566. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027, 

Herring Salad, 1074, 

Mille Feuilles, 1233. 



Little Neck Clams, 300, 

Consomm^ Diplomate, 93. 

Radishes, 292. Olives. 

Kennebec Salmon, Lbbster sauce, 303, 158. 

Tenderloin of Beef, Pique k la Portugaise, 517. 

Potatoes Duchesse, 1006. 

Chicken Saute k la Ranhofer, 1363. 

Asparagus, sauce Hollandaise, 904. 

Roast Ptarmigan, 862. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Cabinet Pudding, Z164. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



67 



Friday, May  . 



Breakfast. 



CD inner. 



Eggs k la Bourguignonne, 411. 

Blackfish aux fines Herbes. 331, 

T.iamb Kidneys, with Bacon, 713. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Wheat Cakes, 1184. 

Cuncl)eon. 

Sole au Gratin, 3x9. 

Beeisteak Pie h. I'Acglaise, 487. 

Crab Salad, 1047. 

French Pudding k la Delmonico, 1139. 



Kirtig's Oysters, 298, 

Busecca Milanaise, 7. 

Sardines, 283. Radishes, 992. 

Frogs k la Foulette, 399. ' 

Brisotin of Veal, Poivrade sauce, 554, 194. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. 

Chicken k la Maryland, 785, 

Lima Beans, 952. 

Roast Teal Ducks, with gravy, 859. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Lemon Ice-cream, 1278. 

Coffee, 1349' 



Saturday^ May  . 



Breakfaat. 



^Dinner. 



Eggs k la Pays^nne, 433. 

Corned Beef Hash, 531. 

Stewed CalPs Liver k TAlsacienne, 582, 

Sweet Potatoes Soufflees, loio. 

Stewed Apricots, 1335. 

Cttncl)eon. 

Oysters, k la Mali, 386. 

Ragout of Veal, Marengo, 624, 

String Bean Salad, 1068. 

Strawberry Pie, 1095. 



Clams, 300. 

Croute-au-Pot, 11. 

Radishes, 292. Mortadella, 287, 

Shad's Roe, with Bacon, 402. 

Pigeon Cutlets, k la Victoria, 815. 

Green Peas, with Cream, gSo. 

Brochette of Lamb, sauce Piquante, 674, 203. 

Artichokes, Florentine, 903. 

Roast Loin of Pork, 751, 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Charlottes Panachees, 1300. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, May  . 



33reakfast, 



Eggs k I'lmp^ratrice, 440. 

Broiled Spanish-mackerel, maitre d'hfitel, 329. 

Hashed Turkey en Bordure, 805. 

Stewed Lima Beans, with Cream, 952. 

Rice and Cream k la Croce, 1296. 



Cttntljeon. 



Canape Lorenzo, 391, 

Broiled Porterhouse Steak, Anchovy butter, 

524. 146. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Cauliflower Salad, 1040. 

Strawberries and Cream. 



minner. 

 Mill Pond Oysters, 298. 

Puree Mongole, 50. 

Olives. Radishes, 292. 

Sole Normande, 318, 

Turban of Chicken, k la Cleveland, 791. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023, 

Lamb Chops k la Maintenon, 685. 

Asparagus k la Vinaigrette, 905. 

Punch k la Frangaise, 131 1, 

Roast Grass Plovers, 865. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Rum Cake, 1299. 

Strawberry Ice-cream, 1274. 

Strachino Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



68 



THE TABLE, 



Monday^ May 



Breakfast. 

Eggs k la Turque, 439. 

Broiled Bluefish, 329. 

Lamb Steak, sauce Piquante, 717. 

Saratoga Potatoes, loii. 

Buckwheat Cakes, 1183. 



Ctincl)on. 



?Dmnr, 



Coquilles of Chicken k I'Anglaise, 271. 

Fricandeau a la Morlaisienne, 579. 

03rster-plant & la Poulette, 1019. 

Madeleine, 1226. 



Keyport Oysters, 298. 

Consomm^ C61estine, xi8, 

Olives. Anchovies, 284. 

Broiled Lobster k la Diable, 364. 

Sirloin Steak, with Marrow, 493. 

Sorrel and Cream, 973. 
Vol-au-Vent k la Financifere, 810. 

Roast Leg of Mutton, 648. 

Salad, Barbe de Capucine, 1038. 

Pineapple Fritters, 1191. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday^ May 



Breakfast. 

Omelet, with Sardines, 468. 

Fried Whitebait, 301. 

Veal Cutlets k la Pagasqui, 560. 

Mashed Potatoes au Gratin, 998. 

Brioche, x2oi. 



tViXit\)t 



Frogs broiled, 398* 
Shoulder of Lamb, Jardinifere, 696. 

Fried Onions, 969. 

Tomato, Mayonnaise salad, 1071. 

Lemon Meringue Fie, iioz. 



JDinner. 

Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Crabs, with Gumbo, 24. 

Watercress, 1072. Sardines, 283. 

Bass k Vltalienne, 337. 

Beef-tongiie k la Gendarme, 532. 

Lima Beans, 952. 

Stewed Chicken, with fresh Tarragon, 774. 

Asparagus, Hollandaise sauce, 904. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Dandelion Salad, 1049, 

Peach Pudding k la Richelieu, 1150. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, May 



Breakfast. 

Eggs au Soleil, 4x5. 

Broiled Outers en Brochette, 385. 

Pig's Feet k la Poulette, 731. 

Potatoes en Paille, 1014. 

Strawberries and Cream. 



Cuttl)eon. 



?!ltnnr. 



Coiled Fresh Mackerel, maitre d'hfitel, 329. 

Veal Cutlets k la Milanaise, 563. 

Stewed Com, 964. 

Cherry Tarts, ini. 



Parker Bay Oysters, 298. 

Chicken k la Creole, 65. 

Anchovies, 284. Radishes, 292. 

Shad au Gratin, 3x9. 

Fillet of Beef, larded k I'Egyptienne, 52X, 

Artichokes k la Vinaigrette, 902. 

Croquettes of Game, sauce Perigueux, 833. 

Roast Chicken, 755. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Indian Pudding, 1145. 

Rum Jelly, 1320. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



69 



Thursday^ May  . 



Breakfast, 

Eggs k la Hyde. 448. 

Fried Cod's Tongues, 350. 

Pork Chops, Apple sauce, 748. 

Hashed Potatoes, saut^es, 1003. 

Iced Timbale of Rice. X175. 

Cunrl)con. 

Broiled Sof^ -shelled Crabs k la Diable, 369. 

Tripe k la Mode de Caen, 547. 

Potatoes Soufflees, xoio. 

Salad Su&doise, 1069. 

Crme en Mousse au Curagoa, 1259. 



iHinnn'. 

Oak Island Oysters. 298. 

Consomme Vermicelli. 103. 

Radishes. 292. Olives. 

Kingfish, Egg sauce, 329, 161. 

Stewed Kidneys, with cpes, 714. 

Tomatoes k la Bock, 1026. 
Sweetbreads k la Pompadour. 618. 

Spinach, with Eggs, 940. 

Droiled Snipe, with Bacon, 869, 754. 

Lettuce Salad. Z057. 

Strawberry Shortcake, 1214. 

Coffee. 1349' 



Friday^ May  . 



Breakfast. 



E^s k la Valencienne, 421. 

Fresh Mackerel k I'ltalienne, 337. 

Escalops of Veal, with Spinach, 568, 939. 

Fried Potatoes, 993. 

Stewed Prunes k la Dufour, 1330. 



Cttnrl) 



Mussels Marini^re, 378. 

Mutton Chops, Soyer with PoUtoes, 647. 

Green Peas, 978. 

Lobster k la Plummer Salad, 1062. 

Cocoanut Pudding. 1147- 



?]Dxnnr. 



Clams, 300. 

Sorrel, with Asparagus- tops, 41. 

Radishes, 292. Lyons Sausage. 286. 

Kennebec Salmon. Russian sauce, 303, 211. 

Braised Beef k la Mode, 479. 

Beans Panaches. 950. 

Croustade of Chicken k la Dreux, 762. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

Saddle of Spring Lamb, 1361, 

Dandelion k la Coutoise, 1051. 

Almond Cake. 1224. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, May  . 



Breakfast. 

Omelet Raspail, 467. 

Broiled Pickerel, Anchovy butter, 329, 146. 

Corned Beef Hash au Gratm, 579. 

Potato Balls, 996. 

Mila& Cake, 1328. 

Cuttcl)eon. 

Crabs k la St. Laurent, 372. 

CalTs-head k la Vinaigrette, 640. 

Stuffed Egg-plant, 909. 

MaraschiDoJelly, 1319. 



JDinner. 

Prince's Bay Oysters, 298. 

Chicken, with I^eks, 68; 

Tomatoes, 288. Olives, 

Shad'5-roe on Toast, 402. 

Potatoes, HoUandaise, 999. 

Epigrammes of Lamb, Mac^doine, 689. 

Spaghetti k I'ltalienne, 960. 

Stuffed Pig's Feet, sauce Madfere, 733. 

Green Peas and Bacon, 981. 

Roast Turkey, 800. 

Chicoiy Salad. 1046, 

Vanilla Ice-cream. X271. , 

Lady-fingers, 1231. 

Coffee, 1349. 



70 



THE TABLE. 



Sunday, May 



Bwakfoat. 



Scrambled Eggs, with Truffles, 407. 

Broiled Brook-trout, with Bacon, 314, 754. 

Deviled Spring Lamb Chops. 647, 

Potatoes k I'f taliennc, 990. 

CrSme en Mousse au Cafe, 1253. 



Cuncl)on. 



Lobster k la Newburg, 359.  

Broiled Spring Chicken, with Bacon, 756, 754. 

Green Peas k la Bourgeoise, 979. 

Salad k la Russe, 1065. 

Pie k la Martha Washington, 1105. 



iDinnn*. 



East River Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Artichokes, 72, 

Radishes, 292. Olives. 

Bluefish, White Wine sauce, 342. 

Mignons Filets k la Parisienne, 514. 

Fresh Asparagus, 904. 

Stewed Chicken h. la Parmentier, 773. 

Stuffed Lettuce, 953. 

Punch k la Lorenzo Delmonico, 1303.- 

Bay Plovers, Roasted, 865. 

Lettuce Salad, 1058. 

Diplomatic Pudding, glac6, X28S. 

Fancy Almond Cakes, 1239. 

Stilton Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday^ May. 



JJrfakfaat 



Omelet k I'Espagnole, 472. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Fillet of Pork, sauce Robert, 741, 192. 

Potatoes, ChS,teau, 1009. 

Blackberries and Cream. 



CuncI) 



Fried Soft-shelled Crabs, 368. 

Hashed Mutton k la Zingara, 652, 

String Beans, with cream, 946. 

Charlotte au Cafe, 1263. 



Wmxitx. 



Little Neck Clams, 300, 

Consomme Deslignac, 108. 

Lyons Sausage, z86. Radishes, 292. 

Trout, Shrimp sauce, 311. 

Stewed Chicken Livers au Mad^re, 767. 

Lima Beans, 952. 

Lamb Chops, Massena, 687. 

Stuffed Green Peppers, 975. 

Sqiiabs sur Canape, 816. 

Romaine Salad, 1064, 

Bread Pudding, 1x32. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday^ May  . 



IBrfakfaat. 



Eggs k la Duchesse, 449. 

Shad's Roe, maitre d'h6tel, 402, 

Bee&teak, with Watercress, 524. 

Potatoes a la Hanna, 1012. 

French Pancake, 1186. 



Ctincljfon. 



Kingfish, sauce Ravigbte, 329, 147. 

Panpielte of Veal k la Faubonne, 592. 

Spaghetti Napolitaine, 959. 

Rum Omelet, 476. 



JUinner. 



Small Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Mock Turtle Soup, 17. 

Olives. Mortadella, 287. 

Fried Sea Bass, sauce Tartare, 301, 207. 

Ragout of Beef k la Dufour, 541. 

Vol-au-Vent k la Rcme, 812, 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Leg of Lamb, roasted, 648. 

Salad, Barbe de Capucine, 1038, 

Strawberry and Vanilla Ice-cream, 1274. 1271. 

Camembert Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



71 



Wednesday, May 



Breakfafft. 



Oatmeal, with Cream. 

Omelet, with Cheese, 469. 

Broiled Porterhouse Steak au Cresson> 

Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. 

Sherry Wine Jelly, 131 8, 



Ctmc^eon. 



Codfish, Shrimp 'sauce, 352, 178. 

Chicken Hash h. U Polonaise, 803. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Sago FuddUng, X140. 



SUinnev. 

'* ClantK, 300. 

Pur^e Cricy, 47, 

Tomatoes, a88. Radishes, 292. 

Trout, Genoise sauce, 314, 1S7. 

Braised Beef 'k la Flamande, 482. 

Piloff of Chicken k la Creole, 783. 

Fresh Mushrooms on Toast, 916. 

Roast Capon, 753. 

Dandelion Salad, 1049. 

Peaches and Cream. 

Sweet Almond Macaroons, laio. 

CofiEee, 1349. 



Thursday^ May  . 



Breakfast. 



^gs k la Bennett, 447. 
Butterfish aux fines Herbes, 331. 

Sausage k TAaglaise, 736. 

Potatoes, with Bacon, 989. 
Stewed Prunes k la Dufour, 1330. 



ttncl)on. 



Pompano,with White Wine, 342. 

Spring Lamb Steaks, puree of peas, 716. 

Fried ^g-plant, 907. 

Macedoine Salad, 1063. 

Rhubarb Pie, 1085. 



Dinner. 



Shrewsbury Oysters, 298, 

Consomme Princesse, 113. 

Watercress, 1072. Olives. 

Shad k la V.enitienne, 338. 

Broiled Tenderloin of Beef k la Nivemaise, 505. 

Spaghetti au Gratin, 961. 

Turkey k TAnglaise, 795. 

Green Peas, 978. 

Roast Pigeons, B16. 

Doucette Salad, 1054. 

Biscuits Glacds, 1286. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday^ May  . 



Breakfaat. 

Oatmeal and Cream. 

Shrimp Omelet, 434. 

Boiled Codiish, Egg sauce, 352, 161. 

Corned-beef Hash, American style, 529. 

Saratoga Potatoes, loii. 

Frh Cherries. 



Ctinl)on. 



Shad's Roe, B^amaise sauce, 402, 166. 

Breast of Veal k la Milanaise, 596- 

Crab Salad, 1047. 

Baked Apples, 1x24. 



!Dmnr, 

. Linn Haven Oysters, 298, 

Chicken k la Turque, 69. 

Celery, 290. Olives. 

Kingfish an Gratin, 319, 

Saddle of Mutton, currant jelly sauce, 666. 

Potatoes kla Hanna, 1012. 

Squabs en Compote, 822. 

Baked Tomatoes, 1028. 

Broiled Reed-birds, with Bacon, 877, 754. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Baba au Rhum, 1217. 

Cofiee, 1349* 



72 



THE TABLE. 



Saturday, May 



Ircakfast. 



Dinner. 



Eggs au Miroir, 42^. 

Fried Whitebait, 301. 

C^lf 5 Liver, Saute k FAlsacienne, 582. 

Stewed Potatoes, 995. 

Clirrantjam. 



Ctincl)on. 



Broiled Soft-shelled Crabs k la Diable. 369. 

Beefsteak Fie. 488. 

Cauliflower au Gratio, 926. 

Rhubatb Tarts, Z112. 



Little Neck Clams", 300. 

Cream of Asparagus, 70. 

Caviare, 281. Radishes, 292. 

BLackfish ^ la Joinville, 322. 

Veal Cutlets, St. Cloud, 561. 

String Beans, 948. 

Chicken Fncassd k CAm^ricaine, 7S1. 

Macaroni, with Cream, 954. 

Hindquarter ot Spring Lamb, Mint Sauce, 1361, 

Watercress Salad, 1072. [169 

Nelson Pudding, iiSS- 

Coffee, 1349* 



Sunday^ May 



Breakfast 



Omelet k la Vanderbilt, 471. 

Broiled Codfish, with Bacon, 310, 754. 

LambTries, Mustard Sauce, 673, 202. 

Stewed Carrots k la Bechamel, 927, 154. 

Rice and Cream k la Croce, 1296. 



Cnncl)on. 



Cream Cheese, 

Scallops Brestoise, 392. 

Brochette of Lamb, with Bacon, 674, 754. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Japanese Salad, 1075. 

Apple Fie, 1083. 



Dinner. 



Blue Point Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Mass^na, x62. 

Sardines, 283. Cucumber Salad, 289, 

Radishes, 292. 

Broiled Trout, with Bacon, 314, 754. 

Tenderloin of Beef, Piqu^ k la Proven9ale, 518, 

Stuffed Egg-plant, 909. 

Coquilles of Sweetbreads aux Champignons, 623. 

Champagne Punch, 1307. 

Roast Rhode Island Turkey, 800. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Strawberry Shortcake, 1214. 

Imported Brie Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday^ May  . 



ISreakfast. 

Eggs k la Chipolata, 442, 

Fried Sea-bass, 301. 

Hashed Turkey en Bordure, 805, 

Succotash, I02Z. 

Small Brioches, 1202. 

uncl)fon. 

Stuffed Deviled Crabs, 370. / 

Stewed Mutton, Solferino, 656. 

Herring Salad, 1074. 

Vanilla Eclairs, 1245. 



ilinncr. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Consomm^ aux Pates d'ltalie, 103. 

Olives. Lyons Sausage, 2S6. 

Salmon, Genoise Sauce, 306. 

CalFs-head en Tortue, 641. 

Spinach, 940. 

Mignons of Lamb k la Pompadour, 509. 

Roast Ptarmigan, 862. 

Dandelion Salad, 1048. 

Stewed Prunes k la General Dufour, 1330. 

Pithiviers Cake, 1225, 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



73 



Tuesday, May  . 



Bvealrfiast. 

Smoked Beef Omelet, 461. 

Skate, with black Butter, 325, 159. 

Lamb Steak k 1' Americaine, 718. 

Potatoes, maitre d'hfitel, 985. 

Rice k I'Airolo, 1171. 

um[)on. 

Oysters k la Baltimore, 388. 

Veal Cutlets en Papillotes, 566. 

String Beans, with Cream, 946. 

Pumpkin Pie, 1099. 



Slinner. 

Small Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Puree Condi, 48. 

Radishes, 292 Watercress. 

Sole k la Toulouse, 354. 

Broiled Tenderloin k la Biamaise, 492. 

Stuffed Lettuce, 953, 

Croquettes ot Sweetbreads, Cream Sauce, 620, 

Asparagus a la Tessinoise, 906. [181. 

k Squabs sur Canape, 816. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Charlottes Panach^es, 13CO. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday^ May  . 



breakfast. 



Dinner. 



Boiled E^gs. 

Broiled North RiverShad, maitre d'h6tel, 326. 

Stewed Kidneys, with Mushrooms, 714. 

Turnips and Cream, 967. 

Stewed Peaches, 1334. 



Cnncl) 



eon. 



Crals a I'Anglaise, 373. 

Stewed Beef k la Turque, 542. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. 

Tomato Mayonnaise, 1071. 

Strawberry Tarts, 1 1 17. 



Clams, 300. 

Cream k I'Allemande, 84. 

Tomatoes, 288. Olives. 

Lobster k la Bordelaise, 360. 

Grenadins of Veal kl'Africaine, 589. 

Succotash, 1022. 

Chicken Sauti k la Regence, 777. 

Spinach, with CroHtons, 943. 

Roast Tenderlom of Beef au Jus, 516. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Maraschino Pudding, 11 34. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday^ May  . 



IBrcakfaat. 



Dinner. 



Omelet, with Cfipes, 460. 

Chicken Halibut, Caper sauce, 309, 6gi. 

Tripe k la Lyonnaisci 548. 

Potatoes k la Rice, 1007. 

Strawberries and Cream. 



Cttncl)eon. 

Clams k la Mariniire, 377. 
Broiled Spring Chicken, 756. 
Green Peas, with Cream, 980. 
Savarin, 1197. 



Linn Kaven Oysters, 298 . 

Consommi Colbert, 120. 

Caviare, z8i. Radishes, 292. 

Trout k la Cambacferes, 312. 

Asparagus k la Vinaigrette, 905. 

Lamb Chops, Soyer, 647. 

Supreme of Chicken k la Rothschild, 790. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Roast Plover, 865. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Vanilla Ice-cream, 1271. 

Petites Bouchees des Dames, 1237. 

Coffee, 1349. 



74 



THE TABLE. 



Friday, May  . 



Breakfast. 



Dinnff. 



Scrambled Eggs, with Asparagus-tops, 406. 

Broiled Fompano, 329. 

Mutton Hashi 653. 

Potatoes k la Lyonnaise, 991. 

German Pancake, 1188. 



Cttncl)on. 



Scallops k la St. Jean, 371, 

Porterhouse Steak au Cresson, 524, 

Sweet Potatoes k I'Hollandaise, 999. 

Lobster Salad, 1061:. 

Iced Timbale of Rice, 1175. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Printanier Gr6nat, 51. 

Olives. Mortadella, 387. 

Kingfish k la Venitienne, 338, 

Minced Veal k la Catalan, 575. 

^ Fresh Mushrooms on Toast, 916. 

Broiled Tenderloin k la Florentine, 506. 

Roast Chicken, 755.  . 

Dandelion Salad, 1049. 
Orange Pudding, 1x58. 
Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday.^ May  . 



JBreakfast. 



Omelet k I'Espagnole, 472. 

Fried Scallops, Tomato Sauce, 301, 205. 

Mutton Chops, Bretonne, 644. 

Hashed Potatoes and Cream, 1003. 

Fritters k la Vanille, 1192. 



Cancl)on. 



JUmncr. 



Mussels k la Foul^te, 379. 

Noix of Veal a la Bourgeoise, 590, 583. 

Chicken Livers en Brochette au petit Sal^, 769. 

Potatoes Souffldes, loio. 

Boiled Apple Dumplings, 1x27. 



Keyport Oysters, 298. 

Chicken Portugaise, , 

Olives. Lyions Sausage, ; 

Matelote of Eels k la Normande, 334. 

Mignons Filets, with Marrow, 510. 

Asparagus, sauce Hollandaise, 904. 

Chicken Saute k la Boh^mienne, 778. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

Roast Loin of Spring Lamb, 1361. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Cocoanut Pudding, 1147. ' 

Coffee; 1349. 



Sunday^ May  . 



35r^akfa0t. 



JBtnner. 



Poached Eggs on Toast, with Anchovy Butter, 

404, 146. 

Broiled Kingfish, maitre d'h6tel, 329. 

Hashed Chicken k la Crgme, 804. 

' Creme Renvers^e, 1252. 



Ctintl)on. 



Lobster Cutlets, Victoria Sauce, 366. 
Chops Soyer, with Potatoes, 647. 
Stuffed Cucumbers, 937. ' 

Chicken Salad, 1044. 
Strawberries and Cream. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Cream of Chicken, 82. 

Sardines, 283. Radishes, 292. 

Salmon k la R^gence, 305. 

Roast Tenderloin, Fique kla Duchesse, 516. 

Risotto, 1 0x7. 

Chicken Fillets k la Patti, 789. 

Artichokes, Florentine, 903. 

Punch k la Cardinal, 1306. 

Roast Ptarmigans, 862. 

Lettuce, Mayonnaise, 1042. 

St. Honor^ k la Rose Delmonico, 1212. 

Roquefort Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



n 



Monday^ May  . 



Bvmkfast, 



Ham Omelet, 462. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Calfs Liver and Bacon, 584. 

Potatoes, maStre d'hOtel, 985. 

Sweet Potatoes, Sauties, 993. 

Whipped Cream au Kirsch, 1256, 



tmcl) 



)on. 

Welsh Rarebit, Golden Buck, 295. 

Ragout of Mutton aux Pommes, 659. 

SpE^hetti & ritalienne, 960. 

Frangipani Tarts, X121. 



JBtnncr. 



Cherry Stone Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Douglas, 114. 

Tomatoes, 288. Anchovies, 284. 

North River Shad en Mat^ote, 332, 

Sweetbreads, Soubise, 606. 

Beans Panachds, 950. 

Breast of Lamb, Jardiniere, 703. 

Roast Plovers, 865. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Preserved Plums, 1343. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday^ May  . 



Brjcakfast. 

Eggs & la Tripe, 4x9. 

Fried Frostfish, 301. 

Pig's Feet, Boston style, 730. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Com Fritters, 965. 



Ctmcl) 



icon. 



JDxnner. 



Shad's Roe, sauce HoIIandaise, 402, 160. 

Minced Beef a la Provengale, 500. 

Stirffed Peppers, 975. 

String Bean Salad, zo68. 

Apple Meringue Pie, 1103. 



Little Neck Clams, 3cx>. 

MuUigatawney k la Delmonico, 35. 

Caviare, 281. Radishes, 292. 

Fresh Mackerel, Cream Sauce, 329, 181. 

Lamb Chops &la Robinson, 682. 

Sorrel, with Crofktons, 974, 

Chicken Curry k I'Espagnole, 793. 

Fresh Asparagus, 904. 

Roast Snipe, 868. 

Doucette Salad, 1054. 

Fruit Pudding, ix6z. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, May 



Brcakfaet. 

Omelet k la Provengale, 457. 

Fried Porgies, 301. 

Broiled Deviled Mutton Kidneys, 715. 

Fried Potatoes, 993, 

Waffles with Sugar, 1196. 

CuncljEon. 

Oysters k la Baltimore, 388. 

Chicken Pot-pie, 757. 

Macaroni au Gratin, 955. 

Rice Pudding, 1143. 



!!ltnnr. 



' Massachusetts Bay Oysters, 298. 

Chicken k la Richmond, 62. 

Olives. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Bass, Lobster Sauce, '352, Z58. 

Boiled Turkey, Egg Sauce, 798. 

Spinach, mattre d'h6tel, 942. 

Sweetbreads aux Gourmets, 6ia, 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Roast Fillet of Beef, 516. 

Barbe de Capucine Salad, 1038. 

Omelet C^lestine, 477. 

Coffee, 1349. 



76 



THE TABLE. 



Thursday, May 



Breakfast. 



5 au Beurre noir, 414, 

Spanish-mackerel, Vert-pr^, 328. 

Calfs Head i la Vinaigrette, 640. 

Lima Beans and Cream, c)52. 

Blackberries and Cream. 



Cttnl)?on. 



Broiled Trout, Butter sauce, 314. 

Corned Beef with Kale-sprouts, 490. 

Potatoes ^ THolIandaise, 999. 

Herring Salad, 1074. 

Baba au Rhum, 1217. 



JUinncr. 



Small RockawAy Oysters, 298. 

Consomm^ Su^doise, 122. 

Mortedella, 287. Radishes, 292. 

Kennebec Salmon & la R^gence, 305. 

Fillet of Beef, Broiled k la Trianon, 507. 

Green Peas k TAnglaise, 978. 

Chicken Saut6 k^a Marengo, 771. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

Roast Hind Quarter of Spring Lamb, 1361, 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Blackberry Shortcake, 12x5. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday^ May  , 



38rakfast. 



Wmxitx. 



Omelet aux Sardines, 468. 

Broiled Bluefish, brown Butter, 329, 159. 

Pig*s Feet, St. Hubert, 727. 

Spaghetti k la Italienne, 960. 

Brioche, 1201. 



nncl)on. 



Crabs i la St. Jean, 371, 

Stewed Mutton, Marseillaise, 657; 

Salmon Salad, ro66. 

Custard Pie, izoo. 



East River Clams, 300. 

Oyster Soup, 26, 

Olives, Sardines, 283. 

Bass k la Chambord, 343. 

Escalops of Sweetbreads, Richelieu, 574. 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926, 

Squabs en Crapaudine, 819. 

String Beans, 94S. 

Roast Loin of Veal, 585. 

Watercress Salad, 1072, 

Omelet Soufflee, 474. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday^ June 



ISreakfast. 

Eggs k la Bourguignonne, 4x1. 

Haddock, Cream Sauce, 352, iSi. 

Lamb en Brochette, Colbert, 674, 190. 

Fried French Potatoes, 993. 

Rice Cake, 1222. 

Cttncl)Ott. 

Broiled Stuffed Deviled Crabs, 370. 

Breaded Veal Cutlets; Tomato sauce, 563, 

Macedoine Salad, X063. 

Mille Feuilles, 1223. 



WXXVMX. 



Ox-tail k 1' Ecossaise, 39. 
Tomatoes, 288. Olives. 

Lobster k la Bordelaise, 360. 

Tenderloin of Pork, Sauce piquante, 741, 203. 

String Beans, 984. 

Fried Chicken, Cream Sauce, 301, i8x. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023,' 

Leg of Lamb, 648. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057, 

, Tapioca Pudding, 1141. 

Mazagran k la Gen. Bugeau, 1391. 



MENUS. 



77 



Sunday, June  . 



Sreakfaat. 

Omelet with fresh Asparagus* 458. 

Veal Kidneys, Broiled and Deviled, 715. 

Broiled Ham, 753. 

Fried Oystei^plant, 1021. 

Fresh Cherries. 



Ctmrl)con. 



Baked Bluefish, 319. 

Hashed Chicken en BordurCf 805. 

Stuffed Egg-plant, 909. 

Timbales & la Schultze, 263. 

Raspberry Fie* 1096. 



Wwvxtx. 

Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Cream of Cauliflower, 73. 

Caviare, 381. Radishes^ 292. 

Fompano* mattre d'hdtel. 329. 

Potatoes, Chiteau, 1009. 

Broiled Tenderloin k la Trianon, 507. 

Broiled Tomatoes, 1025. 

Shells of Sweetbreads k la Breux, 621. 

Punch k la Lalla Rookh, 1308. 

Roast Turkey, Cranberry Sauce, 800, 1329. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Cabinet Pudding k la Sadi-Camot, 1164. 

Swiss Cheese. 

Coffee, X349. 



Monday^ June  . 



Brcakfaat, 



Eggs &u Soleil, 415. 

Broiled Black Bass, 339. 

Sausages, with White Wine, 735. 

Hashed Potatoes, 1002. 

Stewed Apricots, 1335. 



Cunc^t 



)eon. 

Stuffed Deviled Clams, 376. 

Corned Beef Hash k la Polonaise, 528. 

Oyster-plant a la Poulette, 1019. 

Tomato, Mayonnaise Salad, 1071. 

Blackberry Tarts, 11x9. 



JBtitncr. 



Small Rockaway Oysters, 298, 

Consomme Napolitaine, 127. 

Anchovies, 284. Radishes, 292. 

Shad k PEcarlate, 326, 247. 

Tenderloin Piqu6 k la Proven9ale, 518. 

Potatoes en Faille, 1014. 

Veal Cutlets k la Marechale, 562. 

Stuffed Lettuce, 953. 

Roast Squabs, 816. 

Doucette Salad, 1054. 

Omelet au Kirsch, 476. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday.^ June  . 



BrcakfttBt. 

Omelet, with Parsley, 451. 

Broiled Bacon, 754. 

Hashed Lamb k la Polonaise, 700. 

Stewed Carrots and Cream, 927. 

Cream Renversee, 1232. 



Cuncl)con. 



Broiled- Trout a lamaitre d'h6tel, 314, 
Vol-au-Vent k la Financiere, 810. 
Asparagus k la Tessinoise, 906. 
Boiled Apricot Dumplings, 1x26. 



WxxiXitx. 

Massachusetts Bay Oysters, 298. 

Mock Tiu-tle, 17. 

Lyons Sausage, 286, Olives. 

Bass en Matelote, 332. 

Sweetbreads k la Duxelle, 608. 

Chicken Saut^ k I'Hongroise, 772. 

Mushrooms on Toast, 914. 

Roast Loin of Mutton, 585, 

Escarole Salad, X055. 

Rum Cake, 1229. 

Coffee, 1349. 



78 



THE TABLE. 



Wednesday, June 



ISrcakfaat. 



Fried Eggs, 412. 

Broiled Kingfish, 32^. 

Minced Beef & la Provengale, 500. 

Potato^ k la Hannaj, 10x2. 

Buckwheat Cakes, 1x83. 



Cttttcl^eon. 



Wefeh Rarebit, Golden Buck. 295. 

Shad's Roe, with Bacon, 402. 

Stewed Mutton, with Oyster-plant, 763, 

Tomatoes k la Marseillaise, 1029. 

Rhubarb Pie, 1085. 



Wxxvatx. 



Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Sorrel, Fermifere, 81. 

Sardines, 283. Radishes, 292. 

Salmon Croquettes, 364, 

Broiled Tenderloin of Beef, Nivemaise, 505. 

Turnips, with Gravy, 967. 

Mutton Chops & la Clichy, 6S4. 

Asparagus k la Vmaigrette, 905. 

Roast Chicken, 755. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Plombi&re a la Hamilton, 1370. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday^ June  . 



Breakfast. 

Omelet R^gence, 470. 

Picked-up Codfish, 346. 

Lamb Steak, with Bacon, 716, 754. 

Potato Balls, 996. 

Brioches, 1201. 

Cuncl)wn. 

Trout^ Ravigote Sauce, 314, 147. 

Tendron ofVeal, Morlaisienne, 635. 

Beef Salad, 1039. 

Peach Pie, 1092. 



Dinner. 



Oak Island Oystets, 298. 

Pot-au-Feu, 54. 

Watercress, 1072. Anchovies, 284. 

Crawiish k la Bordelaise, 360. 

Sirloin k la Stanley, 491, 248, 

String Beans k la Bretonne, 949. 

Turban of Chicken k la Cleveland, 791. 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Roast Plover, 86s. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Charlottes Panachees, 1300, 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, June  . 



Srcakfast. 



Eggs k la Polonaise, 443., 

Broiled Whitebait, 329. 

Beef Tongue, sauce Piquante, 533. 

Fried SweetPotatoes, 993. 

Kirsch Jelly, 131 9. 



CuncI) 



icon. 



Stuffed Deviled Crabs, 370. 

Bee&teak Pie k I'AmMcaine, 488. 

Spinach, with Gravy, 943. ' 

ShrimpSalad, 1067. 

Frangipani Tarts, 1121. 



JDtnner. 



Little Neck Clams, 300, 

Bouille-k-Baisse, z. 

Celery, 290. Olives. 

Bass, Egg Sauce, 352, 161. 

Civet of Antelope k la Fran9aise, 887. 

Spaghetti au Gratin, 961. 

Lamb Chops, maison d'or, 961. 

Green Peas, 978. 

Roasted Squabs, 8x6. 

Barbe de Capucine Salad, 1038. 

Peach Pudding k la Richelieu, Z150. 

Coffee, X3i)9. 



MENUS. 



79 



Saturday, June 



Breakfast. 



Hominy and Cream, 1034. 

Chicken Liver Omelet, 464. 

Mutton Chops, with Bacon, 647, 754. 

Saratoga Potatoes, loii. 

Rice & la Turque, Z178. 



Ctincl)on 



Dinniir. 



Frogs' Legsk la Geo, Merrill, 1372. 

Stuffed Breast of Veal, I*ur^e of Peas, 596, 49, 

Asparagus ^ la Tessinoise, 906. 

Cranberry Pie, 1104. 



Little Neck Clams, 300, 

Brunoise, with Rice, 3. 

Radishes, 293. Sardines, 283. 

Salmon, Oyster Sauce, 303. 

Tenderloin of Beef, larded k la Portugaise, 517. 

Sorrel, with Eggs, 974. 

Salmi of Ptarmigan k la Modeme, 870. 

Lima Beans, 952. 

Roast Leg of Spring Lamb, 648. 

Lettuce Salad, 1058. 

Apple Charlotte, 1167. 

Cofiee, 1349* 



Sunday^ June  . 



Brtakfdst. 



Scrambled Eggs, yith Truffles, 407, 

Fried Soles, Tartare Sauce, 320, 207, 

Hashed Turkey k la Creme, 804. 

Broiled Egg-plant, 908, 

Stewed Prynes, 1330. 



Cnncl)Eon. 



Codfish k I'Hollandaise, 3x7. 

Broiled Turkey Legp a la Diable, 766, 

Okras, Sautes ^ la Creole, Z031. 

Crab Salad, 1047. 

Creme en Mousse au Cognac, 1258. 



HDinncr. 

Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Mulligatawney, 34. 

Caviare, 28. Radishes, 292. 

Broiled Spanish-mackerel, maitre d'hdtel, 329. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 

Curry of Lamb, with Asparagus-tops, 676, 

Sweetbreads k la Catalan, 616. 

Hashed Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. 

Roman Punch, 1304. 

Roast Tenderloin of Beef, 516. 

Tomato, Mayonnaise Salad, 1071. 

Strawberry Shortcake, 1214. 

Camembert Cheese. 

Maz^ran k la Gen. Dufour, 1392. 



Monday^ June  . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet aux fines Herbes, 451. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Brochette of Lamb k la Diunas, 674. 

Succotash, X022. 

Milan Cake, 1228. 



Cnnl)on. 



Pickerel, with White Wine, 342. 

Haricot of Lamb i. la Providence, 701. 

Stewed Com, 964. 

Herring Salad, ZO74. 

Maraschino Jelly, 1319. 



JDinncr. 



East River Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Rachel, 123. 

Then, 282. Radishes, 292. 

Broiled Pompano, 329. 

Potatoes, Windsor, looS. 

Supreme of Chicken k la Bayard, 787. 

Green Peas i. I'Anglaise, 978. 

Bee&teak k la Bordelaise, 491. 

Fried Ojrster-plant, loai. 

Roast Loin of Veal, 585. 

Dandelion Salad, 1049, 

Vermicelli Pudding, 1x42. 

Coffee, X349. 



8o 



THE TABLE. 



Tuesday, June 



33rakfa0v. 



Eggs k la Livingstone, 410. 

Broiled Mutton Kidneys, with Bacon, 661. 

Potatoes, Saratoga, loii. 

CrSme en Mousse au Cafe, 1253. 

CnTicl)on. 

Mussels k la Mariniere, 378. 

Hashed Turkey en Bordure, 805. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Asparagus Salad, 905. 

Raspberry Tarts, 1118. 



JBinncr. 

Mill Pond Oysters, 298. 

Mikado, 32. 

Tomatoes, 288. Radishes, 292. 

Fresh Mackerel, St. Nazaire, 329, 236. 

Tenderloin of Beef, Pique k la Trianon, 507, 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. 

Sweetbreads k la Montglas, 615. 

Roast Squab, 816. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Baked Apple Dumplings, 1122. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday^ June  . 



Tomato Omelet, 456. 

Shad, maitre d'hdtel, 326. 

Pig's Feet k la Boston, 730. 

Potatoes Julienne, 1013. 

Raspberries and Cream. 

Ctmcl)0n. 

Scallops Brestoise, 392. 

Beefsteak Pie a I'Americainc, 488. 

String Beans, 947. 

Pineapple Pie, 1087. 



JDtnncr. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Beef k I'Anglaise, 5. 

Lyons Sausage, 2G6. Radishes, 292. 

Bluefish k la Toulouse, 354. 

Minced Beef k la Provengale, 500. 

Fricass^ of Chicken, with Curry, 792. 

Asparagus, sauce HoUandaise, 904. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Romaine Salad, 1064, 

Peach Water-ice, 1284. 

Biscuits k la Cuill^re, 1231. ' 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday^ June 



Brfdlrfdat. 

Omelet, with Peas, 459. 

Porterhouse Steak, with Watercress, 524. 

Potatoes, Lyonnaise, 991. 

French Pancake, 1186. 

Cttncl)on. 

Shad, with Sorrel, 327, 

Mutton Chops, Soyer, 647. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. 

Jam Omelet, 475. 



?Dinnf. 

Parker Bay Oysters, 298. 

Julienne, 27. 

Watercress, 1072. Anchovies, 284. 

Clam Patties, 387. 

Mignons Filets a la Bohemienne, 513. 

Succotash, I022. 

Chicken h Ja Ranhofet, 1363.  

Artichokes k la Florentine, 903. 

Roast Reed-birds, 877. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Riz au Lait d'Amandes, 1x70. 

Coffee, X349. 



MENUS. 



8l 



Friday., June  . 



Breakfast. 



JDiniur. 



Lobster Omelet, 454. 

Bluefish au Gratjn, 319. 

Minced Beef & la Catalan, 502. 

Potatoes & la Rice, 1007. 

Preserved Apples, 1342. 

Cancl)on. 

Whitebait, 301. 

Green Peas, 978. 

Porterhouse Steak, Fried Onions, 524, 969. 

Potato Salad, 1073. 

Rice and Cream k la Croce, 1296. 



Doxife Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Bisque of Crab, 9. 

Thon, 382. Radishes, 292. 

Kingfish, with White Wine, 342. 

Stewed Mutton, with Potatoes, 659. 

Asparagus k la Tessmoise, 906. 

Salmi of Pigeon k la Walter Scott, 856. 

Roast Loin ofVeal, 385. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Pineapple Water-ice, 1283. 

Sweet Almond Macaroons, 1210. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday^ June  . 



Br^okfaat. 



Omelet Espagnole, 472. 

Skate, with black Butter, 325, 159, 

CalTs Liver and Bacon, 584. 

Broiled Potatoes, 983. 

Fresh Grapes. 



ttncl)on. 



Broiled Porgies a la Beamaise, 353. 

Sausages a la Gastronome, 740. 

String Bean Salad, xo68. 

Rhubarb Pie, 1085. 



^Dinner. 



Linn Haven Oysters, 298. 

Consomm^ k I'Africaine, 116. 

Caviare, 28. Celery, 290. 

Lobster k la Newburg, 35$. 

Marinated Tenderloin of Beef, Russian Sauce, 

5"' 

Mushrooms on Toast, 916. 

Salmi of l)uck, with Olives, S27. 

Fried Egg-plant, 907. 

RoastSpring Lamb, 1361. 

Romaine Salall, 1064. 

Cold Maraschino Piidding, X134. 

Coffee, X349> 



Sunday^ June  . 



Brtakfast. 

Eggs k rimperatrice, 440. 

Broiled Porapano, 329. 

Hamburg Steak, Colbert, 526, 190. 

Mashed Potatoes, 998. 
Crfime en Mousse au Caf^, 1253. 



Wxxvcitx. 



uncl) 



Fresh Mackerel, fine Herbs, 331. 

Stewed Veal, Marengo, 624. 

Stuffed Lettuce, 953. 

Tomato, Mayonnaise Salad, 1071- 

Stewed Prunes k la Giniral Dufour, 1330. 

6 



Little Neck Clams, 300, 

Mutton k TEcossaise, 31. 

Radishes, 292. Anchovies, 284. 

Salmon, en Papillotes, 302. 

Saddle of Mutton, Sevigne, 669. v 

Sweetbreads, with Asparagus-tops, 6oz, 676. 

Punch k la Lorenzo Delmonico^ ^y^l' 

Roast Goose, 808. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Tutti-frutti, 1293. 

Almond Biscuits, X235. 

Mazagran k la General Bugeau, 1391. 



THE TABLE. - 



Monday, June  . 



Brakfo0t 



SDinncr. 



Kidney Omelet, 463. 

Hashed Beef k la Portugaise, 501. 

Potatoes, Hollandaise, 999. 

Fresh Red Currants. 



unl)ott. 



Soft Clams k la I^ewburg, 390, 

Veal Cutlets & la Mar^chale, 562. 

String Beans, with Cream, 946. 

Peach Pie, 1092. 



Rockaway Oysters, 298. 
Consommd d'Orl^ans, zio. 
Mortadella, 287. Radishes, 292, 

Blackfish, Vert-pr6, 328. 
Potatoes, Duchesse, xoo6. 
Hashed Turkey, with Cream, 804. 

Risotto, izxi. 

Lamb Chops k la Massena, 6S7. 

Artichokes, Florentin, 903. 

Roast Capon, 755. 

Lettuce Salad, 1058. 

^ Lemon Water-tce, 1279. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday^ June  . 



SreakfaHt. 



JDtnttcr. 



Poached Eggs on Toast, Anchovy Butter, 404, 

146. 

Pprgies, maitre d'h6tel, 329. 

Minced Tenderloin Ji ITtalienne, 500, 188. 

Potatoes, Lyonnaise, 991. 

Whipped Cream k la Vanille, 1254. 



Cttncl) 



eon. 



Sheep's-head kla Creole, 339. 

Mutton Steaks k la Colbert, 716, 190 

Spaghetti k I'ltalienne, 960. 

Red Currant Pie, 1090. 



Clams, 300. 

Consomme Paysanne, 53. 

Tomatoes, 288. Olives. 

Frogs k la Bordelaise, 40X, 243. 

Croquettes of Lamb, Tomato Sauce, 679, 205. 

Beans Panaches, 950. 

Stewed Chicken k la Maryland, 785. 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Roast Beef, 527, 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Strawberry and Vanilla Ice-cream, 1274, 1271. 

Coffee, Z349. 



Wednesday^ June  . 



BreakfaBt 

Cheese Omelet, 469. 

Boiled Sea-bass, Tomato sauce, 352, 205, 

Sausages k I'Anglaise, 736. 

Oyster-plant Saut6 au Beurre, 1018* 

Rice and Apples, ii6g. 



JDtnner. 



nncl) 



Broiled Brook-trout, 314. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 

Stewed Mutton with Potatoes, 659, 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. 

Lamb-tongue Salad, 1056. 

Raspberry Tarts, 1118. 



Shrewsbury Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Asparagus, 70. 

Sardines. 283. Celery, 290. 

Porgies with fine Herbs, 315, 

Tenderloin of Beef Marinated, sauCe Poivrade, 

Sir, 194. 

Sorrel, with Eggs, 974. 

Pigeon Cutlets k la Victoria, 815. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Roast Rhode Island Turkey, 800. 

Doucette Salad, 1054. 

Apricot Pudding. Jisi. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS, 



Thursday^ June  . 



BreakfaBt. 



Hinner. 



Scrambled Eggs, with Mushrooms, 408. 

Broiled, Deviled Soft-shelled Crabs, 370. 

Stewed Mutton Kidnej-s, Madeira Wine, 662. Olives. 

Fried Potatoes k la Frangaise, 993. 

Raspberries and Cream. 



nnl)on. 



Lobster k la Diable, 364. 

Pork Chops, sauce Robert, 746. 

Spaghetti au Gratln, 961. 

Custard Pie, iioo. 



Clams, 300. 
Chicken & rHolIandaise, 64. 

Celery, 390. 

Fompano au Gratin, 319. 

Broiled Sirloin, with Marrow, 493. 

Spinach, maitre d'hdtel, 942. 

Duckling k I'Am^ricaine, 823. 

String Beans, with Cream, 946. 

Roast Spring Lamb, 1361. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Meringues Glacees, 130Z, 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday^ June 



Breakfast. 



Crawfish Omelet* 453. 

Boiled Codfish, Cream sauce, 352, 181. 

Corned Beef Hash & I'Am^ricaine, 531. 

Boiled Com, 962. 

Brioche Cond^, 1203. 



Cnncl)wn. 



Shad, maitre d'hfitel, 326. 

Stewed Lamb, with Lima Beans, 705. 

Potatoes k la Hanna, 1012. 

Lobster Salad, zo6x. 

Rice a la Bonne Femme, 1172. 



JUxnttEr. 



East River Oysters, 298. 

Chiffonade, 14. 

Radishes, 292. Mortadella, 287. 

Broiled Sea-bass, sauce Tartare, 326, 207. 

Piloff of Chicken k la Turque, 782. 

Fresh Lima Beans, 952. 

Veal Cutlets k la Philadelphia. 565. 

Artichokes k la Vinaigrette, 902. 

Reed-birds, with Bacon, 877, 754. 

Roraaine Salad. 1064. 

Peaches and Cream. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday^ June 



Breakfast, 

Omelet, Bonne Femme, 466. 

Fried Whitebait, 301. 

FAcalops of Veal a la Proven9ale, 57 j. 

Broiled Tomatoes, 1025. 

Peach Marmalade, 1331. 



Cttncl)on. 



Salmon Croquettes, 364. 

Lamb en Brochctte a la Colbert, 674, igo. 

String Beans, Sautes au Bernrre, 947. 

Savarin, 1197. 



inner. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Consomme Printanier, 109. 

nchovies, 284. Radishes, 292. 

Sheep's-head k la Chambord, 343. 

Sirloin, Pique k la Bernardi, 523. 

Croquettes of Macaroni, 279. 

Chicken Saute k la Parmentier, 773. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

English Snipe sur Canape, 868, 832. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Sherry Wine Jelly, 1318. 

Lady- fingers, 1231. 

Coffee, 1349* 



84 



THE TABLE. 



.Sunday^ June  . 



BreakfaBt. 



Eggs a rimperatrice, 440. 

Broiled Spanish-mackerel, 329. 

Lamb Chops, Robinson, 682. 

Hashed Potatoes, with Cream, 1003. 

Fresh Cherries. 



ttncl)on. 



Scallops Brestoise, 392 . 

Blanqiiette of Veal, with NouUles. 552, 

Green Peas, 978. 

Chicken Salad, 1044. 

Iccid Timbale of Rice, 1175. 



mmncr. 

Blue Point Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Cauliflower, 73. 

Celery, 290. Olives. 

Bass, sauce Hollandaise, 352, 160. 

Boiled Turkey, Celery sauce, 796, 

Flageolets, 945. 

Roast Tenderloin of Beef k la Hussard, 519. 

Champagne Punch, 1307. 

Roast Chicken, 735. 

Tomato, Mayonnaise Salad, X07X. 

Strawberry Ice-cream, 1274. 

Almond Cake, 1224, 

Neuchitel Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday^ June 



I3rakfa0t. 



JBtnncr. 



Omelet, iVith fine Herbs, 452. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Broiled Pig's Feet, sauce Fiquante, 729. 

Turnips, with Gravy, 967. 

Brioches Fluttes, 1204. 



Cttncl)on. 



Broiled, Deviled Soft-shelled Crabs, 369. 

Bee&teak Pie k 1' Anglaise, 487, 

Anchovy Salad, 1037. 

Fritters Soufflees, X192. 



Clams, 300. 

Consomme Tapioca, 104. 

Tomatoes, 288. Olives. 

Broiled Trout, sauce B^amaise, 314, i6. 

Potatoes k r Hollandaise, 999. 

Shoulder of Lamb k I'Africaine, 693. 

Sweet Breads, Soubise, 606. 

Spinach, with Gravy, 943. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Chicory Salad, Z045. 

Rice Pudding kl'Orange, 1130. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday^ June 



BreakfaBt. 



Eggs en Filets; 423, 

Broiled' Shad's Roe, 402. 

Hamburg Steak, Madeira Sauce, 526, x8 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027 . 

Maraschino Cream, 1257. 



Cuntl)on. 



Codfish with black Butter, 352, 159, 
Fricandeau of Veal, with Sorrel, 577. 

Stuffed Egg-plant, 909. 
Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Charlotte Russe, X261. 



JDtnner, 



Parker Bay Oysters, 298. 

Clear Green Turtle, 18. 

Radishes, 292. Cucumbers, 289. 

Broiled Fresh Mackerel, ma!tre d'h6tel, 329, 

Croustadc of Kidneys, Perigueux, 680, xgi . 

Green Corn Saute au Beurre, 964. 

Broiled Tenderloin, with Watercress, 503. 

Asparagus, Hollandaise sauce, 904. 

Squabs on Toast, 8x6. 

Macedoine Salad, X063. 

Banana Ice-cream, X277. 

Biscuits k la Livomaise, X233. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



85 



Wednesday, June  . 



 Brcokfost. 

Omelet with Sausages. 465. 

Halibut Steaks, Butter sauce. 310, 157. 

Calf s Liver and Bacon, 584. 

Lima Beans, 952. 
Rie au Lait d'Amande, 1170, 

tincl)eon. 

Canap^ Lorenzo. 391. 
Irish Mutton Stew. 660. 

Risotto. 10 17. 
Baba au Mad^re. 1217. 



Htnner. 



Clams, 300. 

Ox-tail with Barley, 38. 

Tomatoes, 288. Olives. 

Bluefish au Gratin, 319. 

Potatoes. Parisiennes. 986. 

Tenderloin of Beef k la Nivemaise, 505. 

Stuffed Peppers, 973. 

Salmi of Snipe, maison d'or, 867. 

Asparagus k la Tessinoise, 906. 

Roast Loin of Mutton; 585. 

Celery, Mayonnaise Salad, 1042. 

Raspberry Water-ice, 1281. 

Biscuits, Ambrcisiennes, 1234. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday, June 



Hominy and Cream. 

Eggs & la Turque. 439. 

Lamb Chops k la Diable, 672. 

Potato Croquettes. 997. 

Strawberries and Cream. 

Ctincl)on, 

1 

Broiled, DevQed Soft-shelled Crabs, 369. 

Breast of Turkey, k la Financiire, 806, 246. 

Salad \ ritalienne, X036. 

Pear Pie, 1084. 



Dinner. 

Doxie Rockaway Oysters. 298. 

Pur^e Cond^, 48. 

Mortadella, 287. Radishes 292. 

Soles k la St. Nazaire. 323, 236. 

Curry of Lamb h. I'Indienne, 677. 

Broiled Porterhouse Steak k la Bordelaise. 491. 

Asparagus k la Vinaigrette, 905. 

Roast Rhode Island Turkey, 800. 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad, 1060. 

Peach Pudding. 1150. 

, Imported Brie Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Fridayy June  , 



Bnakfaat. 



Omelet aux Sardines. 468. 

' Broiled Kingfish, 329. 

Sheep's Feet k la Poulette, 654. 

Tomatoes k la Bock, 1026. 

Small Brioches, 1202. 



CtincI} 



ijcon. 

Lobster k la Rushmore. 1358. 

Cucumber Sal&d. 289. 

Veal. Stewed, Marengo, 624, 

Asparagus Salad, 905. 

Choux k la Cr^me, 1246. 



Wmxitx. 



Small Prince's Bay Oysters, 298. 

V Chicken with Gumbo, 67. 

OUves. Lyons Sausage. 286. 

Bluefish with fine Herbs, 331. 

Potatoes, Chateaux, 1009. 

Tenderloin of Beef, aux Gourmets, 508. 

Green Peas, 978. 

Fricasse of Chicken k la Reme. 780. 

Boiled Green Com, 962. 

Roast English Snipe, -668. 

Chicory Salad au Chapon, 1046. 

Omelet au Kirsch, 476. 

Coffee, 1349. 



86 



THE TABLE. 



Saturday^ June  . 



Brfttkfaet. 



CUtnner. 



Eggs au Miroir, 425. 

Picked-up Codfish, 346. 

Lamb Fries, sauce Italienne, 673, 

Stewed Green Corn. 964. 

Rice i I'Airolo, 1171. 



Cuncl)on. 



Fried Frogs, sauce Tartare, 400, 307. 

Stewed Beef k 1* Egyptienne, 540. 

Spaghetti au Gratin, 961. 

Russian Salad, 1065. 

French Pudding, 1139. 



Small Blue Point Oysters, 298. 

Consomm^ Royal, 107. 

Caviare, 281. Cucumbers, 289. 

Broiled Kingfish, niiitre d'hdtel, 329. 

Potatoes, Duchesse, 1006. 

Mutton Chops kJa Provengale, 642. 

Succotash, 1022. 

Squabs en Compote, 822. 

Green Peas, 978, 

Roast Loin of Veal, 585. 

Doucette and Egg Salad, 1054. 

Apples, Meringues, 1248. 

Coffee, 1349' 



Sunday^ June  . 



Btfakfaat. 



SDxnncr. 



Omelet k la Vanderbilt, 471. 

Broiled. Deviled Soft-shelled Crabs, 369. 

Mutton Chops with Watercress, 643. 

Sweet Potatoes, 982. 

Stewed Pears, 1333. 



Cttncl)on. 



Broiled Lobster, sauce Ravigote, 363. 

Calf's Head k la Cavour, 638. 

Japanese Salad, Z075. 

Water-melon & la Josi Paez, 1316. 



Little Neck Clams, -300. 

Cream of Lettuce, 87. 

Olives. Radishes, 292. 

Spanish-mackerel, m&itre d'h6tel, 329. 

Potatoes en Surprise, 1005. 

Tenderloin of Beef k la Florentine, 506. 

Broiled Tomatoes, 1025. 

Coquilles of Sweetbreads, with Mushrooms, 621, 

609. 

Punch k la Fran9aise, 13x1. 

Roast Snipe on Toast, 86&. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Plum Pudding, Glac^ k la Gladstone, 12^9. 

Biscuits Richelieu, 1232,. 

Camembert Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, July  . 



Eggs k la Paysanne, 433. 

Broiled Bacon, 754. 

Lamb, Hashed k la Polonaise, 700. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Creme Renversee, 1252. 



Conc[)on. 



Frogs* Legs k la Geo. Merrill, 1372, 

Mutton Chops a la Robinson, 682. 

Fned Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Beef Salad, io39> 

Blanc-mange a la J. Delmonico, 1270. 



Uinner. 



Small Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

\ Consomme k I'Andalouse, 1 17. 

Anchovies, 284. Cucuinbers, 289, 

Bluefish k VIcarienne, 336. 

Curry of Lamb k I'Indienne, 677, 

Spinach, maStre d'h6tel. 942. 

Chicken Croquettes k la Reine, 758. 

Green Peas, 978. 

Roast Woodcock, 871. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

S^o Pudding, XX40. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



Tuesday, July  . 



Breakfo0t. 



Scrambled ^gs, with Cheese, 405. 
Broiled Fresh Mackerel, 329. 

Stewed Veal k la Chasseur, 632. 

Stewed Bermuda Potatoes, 995. 
Rice and Cream kla Croce, 1296. 



Cuncl) 



con. 



Clam Patties, 387. 

Irish Mutton Stew, 660. 

Baked Tomatoes, 1038. 

Lobster Salad & la Boardman, 1368. 

Musk-melons. 



ilDinncr. 



Linn Haven Oysters, 298. 

Julienne, 27. 

Lyons Sausage, 286. Radishes. 297. 

Blackfish, Oyster sauce, 352. 

Sweetbreads k la Godard, 614. 

String Beans au Blanc, 947. 

Chicken, Saut^ & I'Hongroise, 772. 

Asparagus, sauce HoUandaise, 904.' 

Reed-birds with Bacon, 877, 754. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Apple Fritters, 1191. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday^ July 



Breakfast. 

Oatmeal and Cream. 

Ham Omelet, 462. 

Porterhouse Steak, 524. 

French Fried Potatoes, 993. 

Brioche, 1201. 



Cnnl)t 



t)on. 

BroQed, Deviled Soft-shelled Crabs, 369. 

Veal Cutlets & la Philadelphia, 565. 

Sweet Potatoes Soufflees, 1010. 

Stuffed Peppeis, 97s 

Raspberry Tarts, iii8 



iHinnn-. 

Clams, 300. 

Busecca k la Milanaise, 7. 

Thon, 282. Celery, 290 

Halibut, Cream sauce, 309, 181. 

Tenderloin & la Hussard, 519. 

Green Com, 962. 

Broiled Plovers, with Bacon, 866, 754. 

Tomatoes k la Bock, 1026. 

Roast Veal, 585. 

Cauliflower Salad. T040. 

Charlotte Russe, 1261. 

Coffee, 1349. 



r 
88 i.THE TABLE. 



FOURTH OF JULY. 
Thursday, July  . 

I5rakfd0t. 

Eggs k la Bennett, 447. 
Fish Balls k la Mrs. Harrison, 347, 
Chicken Livers en Brochette, 769. 
Tomatoes k la Marseillaise, loag. 

Raspberries and Cream. 

Cncl)Mn. 

Toast, with fine Herbs, 313. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 

Hashed Chicken with Cream, 804. 

Salad Su^doise, 1069. 
Pie k la Martha Wj^hington, 1105. 

Dinner. 

Small Keyport Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Asparagus, 70. 

bUv. . Radishes, 29a. 

Sole au Gratin, 3x9. 

Mignons Filets k la Bayard, 509, 231. 

Green Peas, 978. 

Spring Chicken k la Maryland, 785. 

Asparagus k la Tessinoise, 906,. 

Onmges Glacees k la George, Renauldt, 1297. 

Doe-birds sur Canap^, 838. 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad , 1060. 

Tutti-frutti k la Gen. Harrison, 1371. 

Small Meringues k laCh. C. Delmonico, 1249. 

Mazagran kla Gen. Dufour, 1392. 



MENUS. 



89 



Friday^ July 



Breakfast. 



Fresh Shrimp Omelet, 453. 

Broiled Bluefish, 329. 
Cairs Brains, with hlack Butter, 557. 

Mashed Potatoes, 998. 
Rice h la FranQaise, 1x80. 



Cuncl}eoii. 



Matelote of Eels, 333. 

Stowed Lamb k la Frangaise. 704. 

Macaroni, Napolitaine, 957. 

Salad Macedoine, 1063, 

Peaches and Cream. 



^Dinner. 



Pur6e Mongole, 50. 

Tomatoes, a88. Olives. 

Frogs k la Poulette, 399. 

Tenderloin, Pique k la Portugaise, 517. 

Stuffed Egg-plant, 909. 

Squabs en Crapaudine, 819. 

Succotash, 1022. 

. Roast Saddle of Spring Lamb, 664. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Lemon Water-ice, 1279, 

Galette, 1221. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday^ July  . 



33rcakfa0t. 

Eggs k TAurore, 444. 

Lamb Steaks, sauce Piquante,7i7. 

Onions, with Cream, 968. 

Fresh Plums. 



Cancl)on. 



Kii^fish, maitre d'hdtel, 329. 

Curry of Chicken k la Creole, 794. 

Anchovy Salad, 1037. 

Pineapple Tarts, z 1 1 5. 



Hinncr. 



Croute-au-Pot, 11, 

Cucumbers, 289. Radishes, 292. 

Porgies au Gratin, 319, 

Broiled Sirloin aux CSpes, 496 . 

Flageolets, 1365. 

Ducklings kTAm^ricaine, 823. 

Stuffed' Peppers, 075. 

Roast Loin of Veal, 585. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Apple Pudding k THelv^tienne, Z153, 

Roquefort Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, July  . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet with Asparagus- tops, 458. 

BroDed Kingfish, 329. 

Hashed Chicken k la Crme, 804. 

Sweet Potatoes, HoUandaise, 999. 

Milan C^dce, 1228. 



Cuncl)eon. 



HDtnncr. 



Frog^ Legs k la Geo. Merrill, 1372. 

Broiled Turkey Legs, Mustard sauce, 7^6, 202. 

Broiled Potatoes, 983. 

Lobster Salad k la Plummer, 1062. 

Water-melon k la Romero, 1315, 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Chicken k la Creole, 65. 

Radishes, 292. ^ Olives. 

Salmon k la G^noise, 306. 

Broiled Lamb Chops, with GreenPeas, 647, 977. 

Tenderloin of Beef, Biamaise, 503, 166. 

Asparagus, HoUandaise, 904. 

Punch au Kirsch, 1305. 

Roast Woodcock, 871, 

Lettuce, Mayonnaise Salad, 1057, 1042. 

Plombi^re k la Hamilton, 1370. 

Coffee, Z349, 



90 



THE TABLE. 



Monday, July 



Brcakfaat. 



Eggs ^ la Suisse, 441. 

Mutton Chops, Anchovy Butter, 647, 146, 

Potatoes, Lyonnaise, 991. 

Breaded Pig's Feet, sauce Tartare, 727, 207. 

Cr^me en Mousse au Cafe, 1253. 



ilintrer. 



Cttncl) 



)con. 

Sofl-sheiled Clams k la Newburg, 389. 

Leg of Mutton, Bretonne, 650. 

Spinach with Eggs, 940. 

Rhine Wine Jelly, 1324. 



Consomme au Vermicelli, 103. 

Cucumbers, 289. Mortadella 287. 

I^obster k la Newburg, 359. 

Larded Sweetbreads, with Sorrel, 604. 

Beef-tongue & la Milanaise, 538. 

Green Peas, 978, 

Roast Ptarmigan, 862. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Baked Apple Dumplings, 1 122.' 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday^ July  . 



Br^akfaet. 



Wmntx. 



Ham and Eggs, 412, 753. . 
Escalops of Veal, Tomato sauce, 568, 203. 
Potatoes k la Rice, 1007. 
Rice & la Fran^aise, 1180. 



Cuncl)on, 



Musk -melon. 

Scallops Brestoise, 392. 

Lamb Croquettes kl'Italienne, 679, 18 

Hashed Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. 

Green-gage Pie, 1093. 



Clams, 300, 

Crab* with Gumbo, 24. 

Caviare, 281. Radishes, 292, 

Shad with fine Herbs, 331, 

Panpiette of Veal, Puree of Peas, 594, 49. 

Stuffed Egg-plant, 909. 

Chicken, Saut6 with Tarragon, 774. 

_ Celery, with Cream, 929. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Pineapple Water-ice, 1283, 

Bitter Almond Macaroons, 1209. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, July  / 



Breakfast 

Boiled Eggs. 

Bass, with White Wine, 342, 

Minced Beef k la Portugaise, 501/ 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Brioche, 1201. 



Ctinrl)on. 



Mussels k la Marini^re, 378. 

Brochette of Lamb k la Dumas, 674. 

Risotto, 1017. 

Huckleberry Tarts, 1113. 



iBinncr. 



Small Rockaway Oysters, 298, 

Sorrel, with Asparagus-tops, 41. 

Celery, 290. Sardines, 283, 

Sheep's-head k la Toulouse, 354. 

Broiled Sirloin Steak k la Parisienne, 495. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

Sweetbreads aux Gourmets, 612. 

Asparagus k la Vinaigrette, 905. 1 

Roast Chicken, with Watercress; 755, 

\  Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Brandy Jelly, 1321, 

Pithiviers Cake, 1225. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



91 



Thursday^ July  . 



Breakfast. 

Fresh Tomato Omelet, 456. 

Broiled Kingfish, 339. 

Lamb Chops, sauce Robert, 6B1, 192. 

Stewed Turnips, 967. 
' Fresh Peaches and Cream. 

Ctincl)o:K 

Stuffed DevUed Clams, 376. 

Tripe i la Lyonnaise, 548. 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Pumpkin Pie, 1099. 



CHuincr. 

Clams, 300. 

Chicken h. la Fiemontaise, 63. 

Lyons Sausage, 286. Radishes, 292. 

Broiled Brook-trout, maitre d'h6tel, 314. 

Cxicumber Salad, 289, 

Chicken Saute k la Parmentier, 773. 

Green Peas, 978. 

Braised Noix of Veal en Daube, 59T. 

Boiled Corn, 962. 

Roast Turkey, 800. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Maraschino Pudding, 1134. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, July 



33reakfa0t. 



Scrambled I^gs. with Asparagus- tops, 406. 

Boiled Skate, brown Butter. 325, 156, 

Minced Veal k la Biscaenne, 576. 

Hashed Potatoes, 1002. 

Stewed Apricots, 1335. 



JDmner. 



uncl) 



Fried Whitebait, 301. 

Shoulder of Lamb, Macedoine, 697. 

Macaroni Croquettes, 279. 

Shrimp Salad, 1067. 

Rice kl'Airolo, Z171. 



Clam Chowder, 13. 

Radishes, 292. 01i\ 

Bass k la Chambord, 343. 

Lamb Chops h. la Villeroi, 686. 

String Beans, 948. 

Salmi of Plover, maison d'or, 867. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 

Roast Larded Tenderloin of Beef, 516. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Macaroon Ice-cream, 1290, 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday^ July  . 



BrcakfaBt. 

Poached Eggs on Toast, 404. 

Fried Porgies, 320. 

CalPs Head k la Vinaigrette, 640. 

. Lima Beans, 952. 

Fresh Cherries. 



Cttncl)on. 



Broiled Bluefish, maitre d'hOtel, 329. 

Veal, Stewed k la Marengo, 624. 

Macedoine Salad, 1063, 

Baked Apples, X124. 



iHtnner. 

Consomme Deslignac, 108, 

Thon, 282. Celery, 29a 

Fried Soft-shelled Crabs, 368. 

Broiled Spring Chickens, with Bacon, 756. 

Green Peas, 978. 

Coquilles of Sweetbreads a la Dreux, 621. 

Roast Reed-birds, 877. 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Baba, with Rum, 1217. 

Coffee, 1349. 



92 



THE TABLE. 



Sunday, July 



l3rokfast. 



Omelet & la Regence, 470. 

Broiled, Deviled Soft-shelled Crabs, 369. 

Hashed Turkey en Bordure, 805. 

Stewed Potatoes, 995. 

Brioches FlutCes, 1204. 



Cimcl)on. 



Spanish-mackerel, Hollandaise, 317. 

Coquilles of Chicken kl'Anglaise, 271, 

Sweet Potatoes Souffi^es, loio. 

Water-melon k la Seward; 1317. 

Raspberry Pie, 1096. 



5D inner. 



Clams, 300. 

Chicken k la Richmond, 62. 

Olives. Radishes, 292. 

Small Bouch^es k la Reine, 270. 

Frogs k PEipagnole, 401. j 

Tenderloin Piqu^ kla Provengale, 51S. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

Veal Cutlets a la Marecbale, 562. 

Beans Panachees, 950. 

Punch k la Cardinal, 1306. 

Doe-birds kl'Americaine, 84b, 

Chicory Salad, 1046, 

Plombifere k la. Kingman, 1294. 

Mazagran kla General Bugeau, 1384. 



Monday^ July 



Breakfast. 



Ham Omelet, with fine Herbs, 462, 451, 

Kingfish, mattre d'hdtel, 329. 

Escalops of Veal k la Duxelle, 569. 

Hashed Potatoes, with Cream, 1003. 

Whipped Cream k la Vanille, 1254. 

Cuncl)on. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Braised Beef, Russian sauce, 485. 

Boiled Com, 962. 

Lamb-tongue Salad, 1056. 

Green-gage Tarts, 1107. 



SDtnner. 



Pur^e Cr^cy, 47. 

Celery, 290. Olives. 

Broiled Deviled Lobster, 364. 

Mignons Filets, with Marrow, 510. 

Potatoes, Chateau, 1009. 

Epigrammes of Lamb k la Chicor^e, 690. 

Roast Chicken, 755, 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Vermicelli Pudding, 1142. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday^ July  . 



BreakfaBt. 



Eggs k la Tripe, 419. 

Broiled Fresh Mackerel, 329, 

Broiled Ham, 753. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Fresh Apricot^ 



Cunrl) 



^eon, 

. Canape Madison, 269. 

Veal Cutlets k la Philadelpliia, 565. 

Chicken Salad, 1044. 

Cocoanut Pie, iioi. 



SDtnncr. 



//estmoreland. 33. 
Radishes, 292. Olives. 

Frogs k la Poulette, 399. 

Fricandeau of Veal k la Jardiniere, 577, 1033. 

Lamb Chops, maison d'or, 683. 

Asparagus, with Cream sauce, 904, i8i_. 

Roast Caponj 755. 

Lettuce Salad, French Dressing, 1057, 1070. 

Strawberry Water-ice, 1281. 

Sweet Alniond Macaroons, 1210. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



93 



Wednesday, July  . 



Breakfost. 



Shirred Eggs, with brown Butter, 4x4. 

Broiled English Breakfast Bacon, 754. 

Lamb Steak, with Green Peas, 716. 

Green Com Stewed with Butter, 964. 

Apples and Rice Meringuees, 1169. 



SJtnncv. 



Cttncl) 



)on. 

Kingfish k Vlcarienne, 336. 

Mutton Kidneys Sautes, with Madeira Wine, 

662. 

Sweet Potatoes a I'Hoilandaise, 999. 

Tomato, Mayonnaise Salad, 107Z. 

Crme en Mousse au Maraschino, X257. 



Little Neck Clams, 300, 

' Chicken k la Turque, 69. 

Tomatoes, 288. Celery, 29) 

Lobster \ la Bordelaise, 360. 

Tendron of Veal, with Sorrel, 634. 

Cromesquis ol Chicken k la Reine, 765. 

French Artichokes k la Vinaigrette, 902. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Charlotte Panachee, 1300. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday, juh . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs k la Vanderbilt, 420. 

Fried Porgies, Tartare sauce, 320, 207. 

Tripe k la Bordelaise, 344. 

Saratoga Potatoes, xoii. 

Musk-melon. 



Cnnl)on. 



Haddock, Cream sauce, 352, 181. 

Vol-au-Vent k la Finangiire, 810. 

Salad k I'ltalienne, 1036. 

Peaches and Cream. 



^Dinner. 

Cream a la Palestine, 74. 

Olives. Bologna Sausage, 286. 

Fresh Mackerel k la Colbert, 329, 190. 

Sweetbreads with Mushrooms, 609. 

Sorrel aux Crotttons, 974. 

Chicken, Saut6 k la Chasseur, 775. 

Fresh Limd Beans, 952. 

Roast English Snipe, 868. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Iced Pudding Diplomate, 1288. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, July  . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet with fine Herbs, 451. 

Blackfish, brown Butter, 309, 136. 

Hashed Beef k la Catalan, 502. 

Tomatoes k la Bock, 1026. 

Peach Marmalade, 1331. 



Cancl) 



icon. 

Fried Sea-bass, 320. 
Mignons of Lamb, Biamaise, 1360. 

Crab Salad, 1047. 
Rice and Cream k la Croce, 1296. 



JBinncr. 



Puric Brelonne, 45. 

Cucumbers, 289. Anchovies, 28- 

Salmon Cutlets, Victoria, 366. 

Tenderioin, Piqu^ k la Portugaise, 517. 

Spring Lamb Chops, with Bacon, 647, 754. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Asparagus k la Tessmoise, 906. 

Roast Chicken, 755. 

Doucette Salad, 105:^. 

Biscuits Glacis, 1286. 

Allumettes, 1205. 

Coffee, 1349. 



94 



THE TABLE. 



Saturday, July  . 



33rokfa0t. 

Omelet, Bonne Femme, 466. 

Fried Whitebait, 301. 

Cairs Liver, Saut^ i I'Alsacieime, 5824' 

Potatoes k la Rice, 1:007. 

Brioches k la Conde, Z203. 

Cuncl)on. 

Stuffed Deviled Claras, 376. 

Boiled Turkey h. TAnghuse, 795. 

Broiled Sweet Potatoes, 983. 

Iced Tunbale of Rice, IZ75. 



CDmner. 



Consomm6 with Italian Paste, 103, 

Caviare, 281. Radishes, 292. 

Kingiish with black Butter, 352, 159. 

Braised Beef k la Flamande, 482. 

Lamb Croquettes kla Soubise, 679, 250. 

Stewed Fresh Tomatoes, 1027. 

Broiled Squabs on Toast, with Bacon, 8t7. , 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Almond Cake, Glaccj 1208. 

Coffee, i349> 



Sunday^ July  . 



Breakfast. 



Dinner. 



Eggs k la Turque, 439, 

Fish Balls k la Mrs. Harrison, 347. 

BeviledLamb Chops, with Bacon, 647, 754. 

Succotash with Cream, X022. 

Fresh Plums. 



Cuncljfan. 



Broiled Pompano, maitre d'hdtel, 339. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 

Croustade of Chicken Livers au Madere, 763. 

Lobster Salad k la Plummer, 1062, 

Boiled Apple Dumplings, X127. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Consomm^, iMassena, loz. 

Mortadella, 287. Olives. 

Boiled Kennebec Salmon, Fercillade sauce, 

303* i65' 

Potatoes, Windsor, 1008. 

Broiled Tenderloin a la Chiron, 504. 

Asparagus, sauce Hollandaisc, 904. 

Broiled Chicken with Bacon, 756. 

Beans Panache^s, 950. 

Punch Romaine, 1304. 

Roast Woodcock on Toast, 871. 

EscaroIeSalad, 1055. 

Cabinet Pudding k la Sadi-Camot, 1164, 

Gorgon2olla Cheese. 

Mazagran a la General Dufour, 1392. 



Monday^ July 



jBreakfaet. 



!Dinncr. 



Omelet Raspail, 467, 

Fried Black-bass, Tomato sauce, 320, 205. 

Hashed Lamb k laZingara, 652. 

Potatora k la Haima, 1012. 

Crme en Mousse au Maraschino, 1257. 



Cuncl)on. 



Broiled, Deviled Soft-shelled Crabs on Toast, 

369- 
Stewed Veal, Marengo, 624. 
Salad Suedoise, 1069. 
Lemon Cream Fie, MeringUe, zxos. 



Oysters, 298, 

Consomme Colbert, 120. 

Radishes, 292. Lyons Sausage, z86. 

Lobster en Chevreuse, 562. 

Cromesquis aux Truffles, 268. 

Green Peas, 978, 

Larded Sweetbreads au Salpicon, 605. 

Broiled Tomatoes, 1025. 

Roast Ducklings, 824. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Vanilla Ice-cream, 1271. 

Biscuits a la Richelieu, 1232. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



95 



Tuesday, July  . 



JBrcakfast. 

E^gs a la Finoise, 434. 

Sole, with White Wine, 342. 

Smoked Beef, with Cream, 486. 

Potatoes en Faille, Z014. 

Fresh Pears. 



CuncI) 



con. 

Crawfish kla Bordelaise, 360. 

Haricot of Lamb k la Providence, 701. 

Fried Egg-plant, 907. 

Baba au Rhiun, 1217, 



Hinner. 



Clams, 300. 

Brunoise with Rice, 3. 

Watercress, X072. Radishes, 292. 

Matelote of Eels k la Parisienne, 333. 

Minced Vealk la Biscaenne, 576. 

Oyster-plant & la Foulettc, 1019. 

Fricasse of Chicken, with Curry, 792. 

Succotash, 1022. 

Roasted Larded Sirloin of Beef, 516. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Farina Pudding, 1144. 

Cofiee, X349. 



Wednesday^ July  . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet with Tarragon, 451. 

Boiled Codfish, Egg sauce, 352, x6i. 

Broiled Lamb Kidneys, with Bacon, 713. 

Roasted Tomatoes, 1028. 

Com Fritters, 965. 



Cuncl)con. 



Fried Soles, Tartare sauce, 320, 207. 
Hashed Turkey en Bordure, 805. 

Stewed Green Com, 964. ' 
Rice and Cream k la Croce, 1296. 



Dinner. 



Oysters, 298. 

Printanier Chasseur, 52. 

Tomatoes, 288. Olives. 

Bass k la St. Nazaire, 341, 236. 

Tenderloin ofBeef kla Stanton, 1388. 

Green Peas, 978.' 

Sweetbreads k la Godard, 614. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Roast Lamb, 1361. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Chocolate Ice-cream, 1272. 

Petites Bouchees des Dames, 1237. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday^ July  . 



Breakfast. 

Hominy and Cream, 1034, 

E^gs k I'lmperatrice, 440, 

Minced Beef k la Catalan, 502. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Raspberries and Cream, 



Cttncl) 



]con. 

Fried Soft-shelled Crabs, 368. 

Lamb Sweetbreads en Caisses, 274. 

Tomatoes k la Marseillaise, 1029. 

Plum Tarts, II 10. 



JBinner. 

Clams, 300, 

Westmoreland, 33. 

Lyons Sausage, 286. Radishes, 292. 

Ktngfish, Vert-pre, 328. 

Stewed Lamb and Lima Beans, 705, 

Turban of Chicken kla Cleveland, 791. 

Beans Panach^es, 950. 

Roast Grass Plovers, 865. 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Apple Pudding a I'Helvetienne, 1152. 

Coffee, 1349. 



g6 



THE TABLE. 



Friday, July  . 



Breakfaat. 



Omelet with fine Herbs, 451. 

Broiled Bass, maitre d'hdtel, 329. 

Stewed Tripe k la Creole, 545. 

Stewed Fresh Tomatoes, 1027, 

Brioches Fluttes, 1204. 

Cuncl)on. 

Stuffed Deviled Lobsters, 367, 

Sausages k la Gastronome, 740. 

Salad Macedoine, 1063. 

Jamaica Rum Jelly, 1320. 



JDinner. 



Oysters, 298, 

Fish Chowder, 12. 

Tomatoes, 288. piives. 

Fresh Mackerel k la V^nitienne, 338. 

Tenderloin Marinated, Russian sauce, 511. . 

Stnng Beans. 948. 

Leg of Mutton a la Conde, 649. 

Asparagus k la Vinaigrette, 903. 

Reed-birds on 'J'oast, 877. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Charlotte Russe, 1261, 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, July  . 



breakfast. 



Eggs k la Bechamel, 416. 

Porgies au Gratin, 356. 

Sirloin Steak k la Bordelaise, 491, 

Potatoes, maitre d'hdtel, 985. 

Musk-melon. 

uncl)on. 

Frogs a la Poulette. 399.' 

Broiled Mutton Chops, Soy er, 647, 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Gooseberry Pie, 1091. 



Dinner. 



Oysters, 298, 

Potage k la Montmorency, 97. 

Sardines, 283. Celery, 290. 

Ximbales k I'E^ossaise, 261. 

Mignons Filets a la Bohemienne, 513. 

Stuffed Green Peppers, 975. 

Breastof Lamb, Jardiniere, 702. , 

Doe-birds a I'Americaine, 840. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Bread Puddmg, 1132. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday^ July 



Breakfast. 



Omelet Regence, 470. 

Boiled Halibut, Egg sauce, 309, 161. 

Hashed Chicken kla Bechamel, 802. 

Broiled Tomatoes, 1025. 

French Pancake, 11 86, 



Cttncl)on. 



Canape Lorenzo, 391. 

Broiled, Deviled Chicken Legs, 766. 

Oyster-plant, Poulette, 1019, 

Japanese Salad, 1075, 

Boiled Apple Dumplings, 1127. 



JDxnner. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Cream of Chicken, 82. 

Radishes, 292. Olives. 

Sheep's-head a la Toulouse, 354. 

Larded Tenderloin a la Financiere, 516, 246. 

Green Peas, 978, ' i 

Mutton Chops, Mass^na, 687.' 

Tomatoes k la Bock, 1026.. 

Champagne Punch, 1307. 

Roast Chicken, 753- 

Lettuce and Egg Salad, 1058. 

Tutti-fi^tti, 1293. 

Petites Bouch^es des Dames a la Mme. Astor, 

1238, 

Roquefort Cheese, 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENtJS. 



97 



Monday, July 



Breakfast. 



^gs &1a Boui^tiignonne, 411. 

Broiled Salt Mackerel, 329. 

Minced Veal k la Catalan, 575. 

Lima Beans Saut^es, with Cream, 952. 

Cream Renvers^e, 1253. 



Cuncl) 



IMlt. 

Mussels, sauce Foulette, 379. 

Stewed Lamb, with Flageolets, 707. 

Herring Salad, 1074, 

Raspberries and Cream. 



Wvmtx, 



Oysters, 298. 

Pur^e Parmentier, 44. 

Thon, 282, Radishes, 292. 

Bluefish au Gratin, 319. 

Sweetbreads k la Financi^re, 603. 

Spinach aux Croutons, 940. 

Chicken k la Maryland, ^'&S' 

Roasted Tomatoes, 1028. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Custard Pudding, 1154. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday^ July  . 



ISuakfast. 



Green Peas Omelet, 459. 

Broiled Sardines on Toast, 403, 

Hamburg Steak, Colbert, 526, 190. 

Hashed Potatoes au Gratin, 1004, 

Fresh Pears. 



Cttncl)con. 

Porgies, White Wine sauce, 342. 

Chicken Pot-pie, 757. 

Cauliflower Salad, 1040. 

Rhubarb Tarts, Z112. 



JDinncr. 



Clams, 300. 
Chiffonade, 14. 
Celery, 290. Morladella, 287. 

Kennebec ^Imon k la Creole, 339. 
Braised Leg of Mutton k la Fortugaise, 648. 
Potato Croquettes, 997. 
Croquettes of Sweetbreads, with Asparagus- 
tops, 620. 
Fresh Broiled Mushrooms on Toast, 916. 
Roast Ducklings, 824. 
Tomato, Mayonnaise Salad, 1071. 
Pineapple Water-ice, 1283. 
Fancy Almond Cakes, 1239. 
Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday^ July 



Breakfast. 



Scrambled Eggs, with Fresh Mushrooms, 406. 

Broiled Mackerel, mattre d'h6tel, 329. 

Stewed Mutton Kidneys, with Madeira Wine, 

662. 

Stewed Turnips, 967. 

Brioche, 1201, 



JDinncr. 



Cuncl)! 



t)on. 

Lobster en Chevreuse, 362. 

Haricot of Lamb k la Providence, 701. 

Asparagus Salad, 905, 

Pear Pie, 1084. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Shin of Beef, Uee, 29. 

Radishes 292. Olives. 

Soles, with White Wine, 342. 

Coquill^ of Chicken k I'Angiaise, 271. 

Sirloin Piqu^, with Stuffed Tomatofes, 598, 1023. 

Snipe sur Canapd, 868. 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Chocolate Pudding, 1146. 

Sv/iss Cheese. 

Mazagran k la General Bugeau, 1391. 



98 



THE TABLE. 



Thursday, August  . 



Breakfaat. 

Tomato Omelet, 456. 

Tripe k la Lyonnaise, 548. 

Brochette of Lamb a la Dumas, 674. 

Sorrel au Gras, 974. 

Peaches and Cream. 



Cnc[)on. 

Bluefish with White Wine, 342. 

Ragout of Beef, Dufour, 541. 

String Beans, 948. 

Baba, 12 16. 



UDinncr. 

Clams 300. 

Pur^e Conde, 48. 

Radishes, 292. Sausage, z86. 

Kennebec Salmon, k PHoHandaiSe, 303, 160. 

Saddle of Mutton, Londonderry sauce, 668. 

Succotash, 1022. 

Chicken Saute k la Marengo, 771. 

Stuffed Totnatoes, 1023. 

Woodcock on 'loast, 871. 

Celery Salad, 1041, 

Vanilla Ice-cream, 1271. 

Coffee Eclairs, 1244. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday^ August y 



Sreakfast. 

Omelet, Bonne Femme, 466. 

Fried Soft-shelled Crab^, 368. 

Hashed Beef k la Portugaise, 501. 

Potatoes with Cream, 1003. 

Rice k la Frangaise, 1180. 

' CttTicl)on. 

Matelote of Eels, 332.. 

Croquettes of Lamb k la Patti, 679. 

Anchovy Salad, 1037, 

Currant Tarts, iii4. 



IDinner. 



Oysters, 298. 

Clam Chowder, 13. 

Tomatoes, 28S. Olives. 

Crawfish & la Bordelaise, 360. 

Calfs-head kla Cavour, 638. 

Artichoke-bottoms, Florentine, 903, 

Tenderloin of Beef k la Provengale, 518. 

Asparagus a la Vinaigrette, 905 . 

Roast Turkey, Cranberry sauce, 800, 1329. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Nelson Pudding, 1x53. 

. Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday^ August  . 



33reakfa0t. 



l^gs au Beurre noir, 414. 
Sole a la Horly, 321.  
Broiled Lamb Fries-k la Diable, 672. 

Oyster-plant k la Poulette, 1019, 
Whipped Cream a la Vanille, 1254. 



Cuncl) 



icon. 

Frogs' Legs a la Geo. Merrill, 1372. 

Escalops of Veal k la Duxelle, 569. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Cranberry Pie, 1104. 



HDinner. 



Clams, 300. 

Rice with Sorrel, 42. 

Caviare, 281. Radishes, 292. 

Kingfish with fine Herbs, 331. 

Croquettes of Sweetbreads aux petits Pois, 620, 

Chicken Fricasse kla Reine, 780. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Tomato and Lettuce Salad, 1060. 

Meringues Glacees, 1301. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



99 



Sunday, August 



Breakfast. 

Omelet Raspail, 467. 

Broiled Sea-bass, 310. 

Lamb Chops k la Robinson. 682, 

Potatoes Souffl^> loio. 

Musk-melon. 



Dinner. 



Ctinrl)on. 



Broiled. Deviled Soft-shelled Crabs, 369. 

Hamburg Steak, Russian sauce, 526. 

Potatoes HoUandaise, 999. 

Lobster Salad, 1061. 

Creme en Mousse au Curagoa, 1259. 



Clams, 300. 

Consommi Princesse, 113. 

Radishes, 292. Olives. 

Fresh Mackerel en Papillotcs, 330. 

Roast Ham, Champagne sauce, 723. 

Stewed Green Com, 963. 

Squabs en Compote, 822, 

Beads Panachees, 950. 

Romaine Punch, 1304. 

English Snipe, 868. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Pudding k la U. S. Grant, 1159. 

Camembert Cheese, 

Coffee, X349. 



Monday, August 



Srcakfaet. 



Pinner. 



Eggs au Miroir, 425. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Broiled Pork Tenderloin, Apple sauce, 741, 16B. 

Com Saute with Butter, 964. 

Milan Cake, 1228. 



Ctllicl) 



)taw. 

Mussels k la Marini^re, 378. 

Tendron of Veal k la Morlaisienne, 635. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 

Blackberry Tarts, 1x19. 



Little Neck Clams, 300 

Giblets k I'Anglaise, 22. 

Lyons Sausage, 286. Celery, 290. 

Pompano au Gratin, 3x9. 

Curry of Lamb k I'lndienne, 677. 

Chicken Vol-au-Vent k la Reine, 812. 

Asparagus k la Tcssinotse, 906. 

Plovers sur Canap^, 865. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Omelet Soufflee, 474, 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesaay, August  . 



Breakfaat. 



iHinner. 



Omelet with Cheese, 469. 

Broiled Kingiuh, Anchovy Butter, 329, 146. 

Sheep's Feet, maitre d'hfttel, 654, 177. 

Mashed Potatoes au Gratin, 998. 

Fresh Pears. 



Ctincl)on. 



Scallops k la Poulette, 379. 

Minced Tenderloin k la Portugaise, 501. 

Fried Egg-plant, 907. 

Rice kl'Airolo, 1171. 



Clams, 300. 

Cream of Green Peas, 76. 

Caviare, 281. Radishes, 292, 

Sheep's-head k la Creole, 339. 

Sweetbreads au Salpicon, 605. 

Green Corn, 962. 

Pork Chops, sauce Piquante, 745, 

 Stuffed Peppers, 975. 

Roast Loin of Lamb, 585. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Lemon Pudding. 1157. 

Coffee, X349. 



lOO 



THE TABLE. 



Wednesday, August 



3xta\dmi, 



Eggs k la Yalencienne, 421. 

Fried Porgies, 320. 

Lamb Steak, with Green Peas, 7x6. 

Tomatoes k la MarseiUaise, 1029. 

Blackberries and Cream. ' 



iDuncl) 



eon. 

Fried Whitebait, 30T. 

Stewed Veal k la Marengo, 624. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993, 

Peach Marmalade, 1331. 



Waintx. 



Oysters, 298. 

Consomm6 Tapioca, 104. 

Olives. Tomatoes, 2 

Spanish-mackerel k la Toulouse, 354. 

Tenderloin of Beef k la Cheron, 504. 

Asparagus k la Vinaigrette . 905. 

Salmi of Snipe k la Modeme, 870. 

Succotash, 1022. 

Roast Veal, 585. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Croustade of Rice, 1176, 

Qoffee, 1349. 



Thursday, August 



I5reakfast. 

Omelet with fine Herbs, 451. 

Broiled Pompano, maitre d'h6tel, 329, 

Sausages,^ with White Wine sauce, 735. 

Potatoes, Lyonnaise, 991. 

Fresh Grapes. 

Cuncl)on. 

Weakfish k la Venitienne, 338, 

Tripe k la Bordelaise, 544. 

Cauliflower Salad, 1040. 

Iced Timbale of lUce, 1175. 



JBinncr. 



Clams, 300. 

Chicken k I'Okra, 67. 

Radishes, 292. MbrtadcUa, 287. 

Lobster Croquettes k la Victoria, 365, 208. 

Escalops of Sweetbreads, Richelieu, 574. 

Sorrel au Gras, 974. 

Chicken, Saute k I'Hongroise, 772. 

Fresh Lima Beans, 952. 

Roast Snipe on Toast, 868. 

Celery S^ad, 1041. 

Rum Cake, 1229. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, August  . 



Brakfa0t. 

Omelet Mexicaine, 473. 

Fried Whitebait, 301. 

Beefsteak and Watercress, 524, 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Fritters SouiHees, 1192. 

Cuncl)on. 

Broiled Sea-bass, 329. 

Veal Cutlets Pagasqui, 560. 

Stuffed Cabbage, 9x9, 

Anchovy Salad, 1037. 

Boiled Apple Dumplings, 1127. 



JDtnner. 



Oysters, 298. 
Cream of Celery kVEspagnole, 86. 
Olives. Tomatoes, 

Fried Blackfish, 320. 
' "^urkey Legs k la Diable, 766. 

Com, Stewed with Butter, 964. 
Lamb Chops, maison d'or, 683. 

Spaghetti NapoUtaine, 959. 

Squabs, witli Watercress, 8x6. 

Chicory Salad, X045. 

Peach Pie, 1092. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS, 



lOI 



Saturday^ August 



Breakfast. 

Ham Omelet, 462. 

Lamb en Brochette k la Dumas, 674. 

Macaroni, with Cream, 954, 

Crcme en Mousse au Maraschino, 1257. 

uncl)on. 

Fried Soft-shelled Crabs, 368. 
Minced Beef k la Catalan, 502. 

Stuffed Cucumbers, 937. 

Sweet Potatoes, Souffl^es, xoio. 

Savarin ^ I'Anglaise, X199. 



inner. 



Prince's Bay Oyster^, 298. 

Pur^e Faubonne, 46. 

Olives, Radishes, 292. 

Codfish, nut-brown Butter, 352, 156. 

Sweetbreads, with Mushrooms, 6og. 

Oyster-plant k la Poulette, 1019, 

Saddle of Mutton, Sevign6, 669. 

Roast Turkey, Soo. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Apple Charlotte, 1167, 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, August  . 



BreakfciBt. 



Eggs & la Vanderbilt, 420. 

Broiled Deviled Soft-shelled Crabs, 369. 

Hashed Turkey en Bordure, 805. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 

Fresh Green -gages. 



Cnnci)eon. 



Broiled Trout, maitre d'h6tel, 314. 

Cucumber Salad, 289, 

Broiled Chicken Legs k. la Diable, 766. 

Mushrooms on Toast, 916. 

Water-melon k la'Romero, 1315. 



?Hmner. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

) Consomm^ aux Quenelles, 129. 

Radishes, 292. Celery, 290. 

Fried Frogs, 400. 

Tenderloin of Beef, larded a la Montglas, 

516, 213, 

Green Peas, Sautes au Beurre, 980. 

Supreme of Chicken k la Toulouse, 786. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Kirsch Punch, 1305. 

Roast Woodcock, 871. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Strawberry Ice-cream, 1274, 

Small Meringues k la Ch. C. Delmonico, 1249. 

Strachino Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, August  . 



Breakfast. 

Smoked Beef Omelet, 461. 

Minced Veal k la Biscaenne, 576. 

Stewed Lima Beans, 952. 

Small Brioches, 1202. 



Jinner. 



Cunrl)e 



)eon. 

Stuffed Deviled Clams, 376. 

Stewed Calf s Liver, sauce Piquante, 580, 203. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. 

Herring Salad, 1074. 

Choux k la Crdme, 1246. 



Oysters, 298. 

Brunoise, with Sorrel, 4, 

Olives. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Broiled Deviled Lobsters, 364. 

Haricot of Lamb k la Providence, 701. 

Broiled Tenderloin Steak, Beamaise, 492. 

Green Peas, 978. 

Plover, with Watercress, 865. 

Lettuce Salad, 1058. 

Orange Pudding, X158. 

Coffee, 1349. 



I02 



THE TABLE. 



Tuesday, August 



Ureokfaat. 

Eggs k la Bennett* 447. 

Filet de Sole k la Joinville, 322. 

Croquettes of Lamb> Russian sauce, 679, 211. 

Potatoes en Julienne, 1013. 

Raspberries and Cream. 



inner. 



Cttncl)on. 



Broiled Fresh Mackerel aux fines Herbes, 331. 

Blanquette of Veal, with Nouilles, 552. 

Stuffed Lettuce, 953. 

Pear Pie, 1084^ 

- * 



\ 



Clams, 300. 

Ox-tail, with Barley, 38, 

Olives. Celery, ago. 

Porgies, Lobster sauce, 353, 158. 

Ballotin of Lamb k. la Mac^doine, 675, 1032. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023 . 

Beef-tongue k la Gendarme, 532. 

Sorrel aux Crofitons, 974. 

Roast Pigeons, 816. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Omelet Souffl^e, 474, 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday^ August 



Tomato Omelet k la Provengale, 457. 

Broiled Porterhouse Steaks, 524. 

Potatoes Chateau, 1009. 

Sherry "Wine Jelly, 131S, 



Dinner, 



Cttnc()Mn. 



Fried Scallops, Tomato sauce, 392, 205. 

Shoulder of Lamb, Rouennaise, 698. 

Spinach, with Eggs, 940. 

Raspberry Tarts, zii8. 



03rsters, 298. 

Consomme Garibaldi, 112. 

Radishes, 292, Mortadella, 287. 

Sheep's-head, Oyster sauce, 352. 

Sweetbreads k la Montglas, 615. 

String Beans, 946. 

Boiled Turkey, Celery sauce, 796. 

Roast Mushrooms on Toast, 916. 

Roast English Snipe, 868. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Blackberry Shortcake, 1215. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday^ August  . 



jBreakfaBt 



Utnner. 



Scrambled Eggs, wiCh Asparagus-tops, 406. 

Broiled Kingfish, m^tre d'hdtel, 329. 

Galfs Feet k la Poulette, 598. 

Tomatoes k la Bock, 1026. 

Rice k la Conde, ix8x. 



CuncI) 



ton. 

Lobster k la Rushmore, 1358. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 

Salmi of Spnng Duck k la Bourgeoise 829. 

String Beans, 948, 

French Pudding, 1139. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Cream, Palestine, 74. 

Olives. Cielery, 290. 

Soles k la Joinville, 322. 

Breast of Lamb k la Jardinifere, 702. 

Okras, Sautes k la Creole, 1031. 

Chicken, Fricass^ k la Reine, 780. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 

Roast Woodcock, 871. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Pistache Ice-cream, 1275, 

Lady-fingers, 1231. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS, 



lo: 



Friday, August  . 



Breakfast. 



Dinner. 



Omelet Mexicaine. 473. 

Broiled Haddock k rHoIIandaise, 310. 160. 

Tripe k la Lyonnaise, 548. 

Potatoes, Duchesse, 1006. 

Musk-melon. 



Ctmrl)con. 



Weakfisbv Italian sauce, 188. 

Bee&teak Pie h. I'Am&ricaine, 488. 

Lobster Salad, 1061. 

Madeleine, izs6. 



Oysters, 298. 

Bouille-k-Baisse, i. 

Sardines, S83. Radishes, 392. 

Bass, with White Wine, 343. 

Veal Cutlets h. la Marechale, 562. 

Asparagus k I'HoIlandatse, 904. 

Salmi of Snipe k la Walter Scott, 856. 

Boiled Com, 962. 

Roast Leg of Spring Lamb, 648. 

Chicory Salad, 1046. 

Rice Pudding k TOrange, 1130. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, August 



Breakfast. 



E^gs au Parmesan, 431. 

Blackfish au Gratin, 356. 

Broiled Bacon, 754. 

Breaded Veal Cutlets, Tomato sauce, 563. 

Succotash, 1022. 

Cream Renvers^e, 1252. 



Cttncl)con. 



Oysters k la Mali, 386. 

FUet M^on> Marinated, Russian sauce, 5x1. 

Beans Panach^es, 950. 

Pumpkin Fie, 1099. 



inner. 



'Small Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Pur^e Mongole, 50. 

Celery, 290. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Kingfish, Hollandabe sauce, 329, 160. 

Mutton Chops k la Soubise, 647, 250. 

Tomatoes k la Marseillaise, 1029. 

Ballotin of Squab k I'ltalienne, 8z8. 

Oyster-plant k la Poulette, 1019. 

Roast Saddle of Venison, Currant Jelly, 878. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Rum Cake, 1229. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday, August  . 



Breakfast. 



Dinner. 



Eggs k la Meyerbeer, 437. 

Broiled Spanish-mackerel, maitre d'hfttel, 329. 

Chicken Livers en Erochette, with Bacon, 769. 

Saratoga Potatoes, loii. 

Peaches and Cream. 



Cuncl)Mn. 

Crawfish a la Bordelaise, 360. 

Broiled Squab, with Bacon, 817. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Tirabales k la Schultze, 263. 

Grben-gage Tarts, 1107. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Cream of Asparagus, 70. 

Olives. Radishes, 292. 

Broiled Pompano, mattre^d'h6tel, 329. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 

Lamb Chops k la Massena, 687. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Tenderloin of Beef k la Florentine, 506. 

Fresh Lima Beans, 952. 

Oranges Glacees k la George Renauldt, 1297. 

Roast Turkey, Cranberry sauce, 800, 1329. 
, Lettuce Salad, 1059. 

Pineapple Fritters, 1191. 
Mazagran k la General Dufour, 1391. 



I04 



THE TABLE. 



Monday, August 



Sreakfast. 



Fried Eggs, 4x2. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Mutton Hash k la Zingara, 652. 

Stewed Turnips, with Cream, 967. 

Brioches, 1201. 



Cttncl)eon. 



Frogs en Brochette, with Bacon, 398, 754. 

Chicken Croquettes k PEcarlate, 760. 

Spaghetti au Gratin, 961. 

Anchovy Salad, 1037. 

Charlotte Russe, 1261. 



JDinncr. 



Oysters, 298. 

Mutton, with Barley, 30. 

Radishes, 292. Bologna Sausage, 286. 

Fried Haddock, Tomato sauce, 320, 205. 

Shoulder of Lamb, Rouennaise, 698. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Coqliilles of Sweetbreads k la Reine, 623. 

Stewed Com, 964. 

Roast Plovers, 865, 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Peach Pudding k la Richelieu, it so. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday^ August  . 



ISrmkfast. 

Eggs k la Tripe, 419, 

Kingiishau Gratin, 319. 

Sausages k la I'ltalienne, 737. 

Potato Balls, 996. 

Fresh Plums. 

Cuncl)on, 

Broiled Fresh Mackerel, maitre d'hfttel, 329. 

Stewed Mutton, Portugaise, 658. 

Stuffed Cucumbers, 937. 

Ca-iliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Apple Pie, 1083. 



JDxnnn'. 



Clams, 300. 

Cream of Chicken, 82. 

Olives. Radishes, 292. 

Fried Porgies, Taiiare sauce, 320, 207. 

Tenderloin Piqu^ a la Sevign^, 520. 

Oyster-plantk laPoulette, 1019. 

Spring Chicken, Fricasse k I'Americaine, 781. 

Green Peas, ^78. 

Roast Duck, Apple sauce, 824. 

Lettuce Salad, 1058. 

Lemon Water-ice, 1279. 

Biscuits, Ambroisiennes, 1234. 

CofTee, 1349. 



Wednesday^ August  . 



I8rakfa0t. 



Scrambled Eggs, with Cheese, 405. 

Lamb Pries, sauce Colbert, 673, 190, 

Hamburg Steak, raw, 1359. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 

Iced Timbale of Rice, 1175. 



CuncljEon. 



Pompano, White Wine sauce, 342. 

Blanquette of Veal, with Peas, 351. 

Broiled Sweet Potatoes, 983. 

Musk-melon. 



Oysters, 298, 

Consomihe Chatelaine, 128. 

Tomatoes, 288. Sardines, 283. 

Skate, with black Butter, 325, 159. 

Veal Cutlets en Papillotes, 366. 

Stuffed Egg-plant, 909. 

Fillet of Chicken k la Rothschild, 790. 

Asparagus k la Vinaigrette, 905. 

RoastSirloin ofBeef, 516. 

Watercress Salad, 1072, 

Apples with Rice, 1169. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 105 



Thursday, August  

BrcakfaBt, SDinncr. 

Eggs en Filets, 433. Clams, 300. 

Sheep's-head k la Cr&le, 339. Paysanne, 53. 

Epigrammes of Lamb, with Watercress, 689. Radishes, 292. Olives. 

Potatoes, Julienne, 1013. Spanish-mackerel aux fines Herbes, 331. 

Blackberiies and Cream. Cucumber Salad, 289. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton, Caper sauce, 651. 

CtmchcOn. stuffed Peppers, 97s. 

' * Broiled Tenderloin k la Trianon, 507, 

Oysters k la Baltimore, 38:. Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Squabs en Compote, 822, Woodcock sur Canap^, 871. 

Green Peas, 978. Celery Salad, 1042. 

Macedoine Salad, 1063. Almond Cake, Glac^, 1208. 

Gooseberry Tarts, 1114. Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, August  . 

Bwakfast. Dinner. 

Sardine Omelet, 468. Oysters, 298. 

BroQed Fresh Mackerel, Anchovy Butter, 329, Sorrel with Rice, 42. 

'^ ' Celery, 290. Mortadella, 287. 

Stewed Mutton Kidneys, sauce Mad^re, 662. WhitehaiL 1 

Sweet Potatoes Sbufflees, io,o. Mignons of Lamb k la Monlebello, 1360, 249. 

Cream en Mousse au Cali, 1253. ^^-^^ B^^_ g^8_ 



SnnrVifnn Supreme of Chicken k la Patti, 789. 

JLUnCriCOn. j.^^^ Oyster-plant. 1021. 

Trout, maitre d'h6tel, 314. Roast English Snipe, 868. 



Roulade of Beef k I'Ecarlate, 539. Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Boiled Onions, 968. Vanilla Ice-Cream, i27r. 

Crab Salad, 1047. Sweet Macaroons, 1210. 
Apple Cake, 1211. Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, Augttst  . 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Poached Eggs on Toast, 404. _ Keyport Oysters, 398. 

Cold Bass, Ravigote sauce^ 147. Menestra, 36. 

Mutton Chops, Broiled, with Bacon, 647, 754. Radishes, 292. Bologna Sausage, 286. 

Mashed Potatoes au Gratin, 998. Bluefish i Tltalienne, 337. 

Kiimmel Jelly, 1323. Sirloin Pique a la Duchesse, 516. 

Beans Fanachees, 950. 

i\A^-^ Salmi of Doc birds k la Chasseur, 864. 

7 ' Fried Egg-plant, 907. 

Oyster Patties, 387. Roast Chicken, 755. 

Beefsteak Pie i. I'Anglaise, 487. Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Spinach, with Eggs, 940. Baked Apple Dumplings, 1122. 

Frangipani Tarts, 1121. Cpffee, 1349. 



Cunclje 



io6 



THE table: 



Sunday, August  . 



BreokfaHt. 



inner. 



Eggs k l'Imp6ratrice, 440. 

Hashed Turkey en Bordure, 805. 

Broiled Fillets aux FommesParisienne, 515. 

Tomatoes k la Bock, 1026. 

Musk-melons. 



Cuncl)fon. 



Crabs k la St. Laurent, 372. 

Sirloin Steak k la Bordelaise, 491. 

Fried Sweet Pol^toes, 993. 

Japanese Salad, 1075. 

Stewed Prunes k la G^n^ral Dufour, 1330. 



Clams, 300. 

Consomm^ Douglas, 114. 

Olives. Celery, ago* 

Frogs k la Bordelaise, 399, 186. 

Escalops ofVeal k la Duxelle, 569. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

Squabs en Crapaudine, 819. 

Succotash, Z022, 

Punch en Surprise, 1309. 

Roast Turkey, 800. 

Lettuce with Cream Salad, 1059. 

Pudding Glac^ k la Frankie Cleveland, 1291, 

Camembert Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday^ August  . 



"breakfast. 



Scrambled Eggs with Tomatoes, 406. 

Fried Scallops, 301. 

Flat Sausage and Mashed Potatoes, 719, 

Fried Onions, 969. 

Rice k la Fran^aise, 1180. 



Ctinrl)on. 



Broiled, Deviled Soft-shelled Crabs, 369. 

Veal Cutlets en Papillotes, 566. 

Lima Beans, 952. 

Anchovy Salad, 1037. 

Sweet Omelet, 475. 



!Dmnr. 



Small Rockaway Oysters, ^98. 

Puree Jackson, 43. 

Sardines, 283. Radishes, 292. 

' Lobster Croquettes k la Victoria, 365, 208. 

Tenderloin of Beef, Pique k la Richelieu, 522. 

I Cauliflower, sauce HoUandaise, 925, 160. 

Sweetbreads, with Asparagus-tops, 602. 

Boiled Green Com, 963. 

Squabs sur Canape, 8id. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Nelson Pudding, 1155. 

Mazagran k lai General Bugeau, 1391. 



Tuesday^ August  . 



Breakfaet. 



Omelet, with Peas, 459, 

Boiled Halibut, Butter sauce, 309, 157. 

Lamb Chops, with Bacon, 647, 754, 

Potatoes, mattre d'hdtel, 985. 

Fresh Apricots. 



Cttncl) 



eon. 

Kingiish, maitre d'hdtel, 329. 

Beefsteak Pie kl'Anglaise, 487. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Potato Salad, 1073. 
Chocolate Eclairs, 1243. 



SUtnnev. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Chicken k la Pi^montaise, 63. 

Mortadella, 287. Tomatoes, 2i 

Codfish Steaks, black Butter, 3x0, 159. 

BrKotin of Veal, Poivrade sauce, 554, 194. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Lamb Steak k I'Americaine, 718. 

Asparagus, Cream sauce, 904, 181. 

Roast Stuffed Goose, 808. 

Tomato, Mayonnaise Salad, 1071. 

Sago Puddmg, 1140. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



107 



Wednesday, August  . 



I3ral\fast. 



Hominy, with Cream, 1034. 

Kidney Omelet, 463. 

Broiled Bee&teak & la Farisi^nne. 495. 

Potatoes, Lyonnaise, 991. 

Stewed Pears, 1333. 



Cuncl) 



)cin. 

Mussels k la Poulette, 379. 

Leg of Mutton. Caper saUce, 651, 

Bakqd Sweet Potatoes, 

Fried Oyster-plant, 102 1. 

Rhubarb Pie, 1085. 



dinner. 

Chicken with Gumbo, 67. 

Celery, 290. Bologna Sausage, 286. 

Pompano, with Sorrel, 327. ^ 

Corned Beef and Cabbage, 490. 

Broiled Venison Steaks, Currant Jelly, 884. 

Tomatoes k la Marseillaise, 1029. 

' Roast Plovers, 865. 

WatercreK Salad, 1072. 

Maraschino Pudding, ii34> 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday^ August  . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs k I'Aurore, 444. 

Fried Porgies, 301. 

Hashed Turkey en Bordure, 805. 

Potatoes en Paille, 1014. 

Peaches and Cream. 

nncl)on. 

Salmon en Papillotes, 302. 

Braised Beef en Daube, 483. 

Macaroni au Gratin, 955. 

Chaussons, 1236. 



?I[linnei'. 



Clams, 300. 

Beef kl'Anglaise, 5. 

Then, 382. Tomatoes, 288, 

Scallops, Brestoise, 392. 

Sweetbreads k la B^amaise, 610. 

Green Peas k I'Anglaise, 978. 

Lamb Chops, Maintenon, 685. 

Spinach k la Vieille Mode, 941. 

Roast Woodcock, 871. 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Banana Ice-cream, 1277. 

Pithiviers Cake, 1225, 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday^ August 



Brfakfast. 



Omelet, with fine Herbs, 451. 

Broiled Kingfish, maltre d'h6tel, 329. 

Lamb Steak, Piquante sauce, 717. 

Stewed Green Com, 964. 

Brioches Fluttes, 1204. 



Cnncl) 



on. 

Stuffed Smelts, 3S5- 

Stewed Veal k la Marengo, 624. 

Sorrel au Gras, 974. 

Custard Pudding, 1154. 



inner. 

Bisque of Lobster, lo. 

Radishes, 292, Mortadella 287. 

Trout, Shrimp sauce, 311. 

Sirloin Steak, with Marrow, 493. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

Vol-au-Vent k la Financiire, 810. 

Cauliflower k la Vinaigrette, 1040. 

Roast Mutton, 585. 

Chicory Salad, 1046. 

Champagne Jelly, 1322. 

Fancy Almond Cakes, 1239. 

Coffee, 1349. 



io8 



THE TABLE. 



Saturday, August  . 



Breakfost. 

Eg^, with Tarragon, 429. 

Broiled Ham, 753. 

MuttoA Hash au Gratin, 653; 

Stewed Carrots, with Cream, 927. 

Whipped .Cream k la Vanille, 1254. 



uncl)Ott. 



Fried Whitebait, 301. 

Hashed Chicken, with Cream, 804. 

Asparagus k la Tessinoise, 906. 

Baba au Rhum,.z2Z7. 



SDinner. 



Shrewsbury Oj'Sters, 298, 

Cream of Artichokes, 72. 

OHves. ' Lyons Sausage, 286, 

Weakfish, Hollandaise sauce, 160. 

Beef-tongue k la Jardiniere, 535. 

Lima Beans, 9^2. 

Chicken, Saute with Tarragon, 774. 

, Stuffed Peppers, 975. 

Roast Squab on Toast, 816. 

Cauliflower Salad, 1040. 

Parfait au Cafe, 1295. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sundayy September  , 



35rmkfast. 



JDinncr. 



Eggs k la Vanderbilt, 420. 

Boned, Broiled Smelts, Beamaise sauce, 353. 

Small Mignons Filets, Madeira Wine sauce, 509, 

185. 

Lima Beans Stewed with Cream, 952, 

Musk-melon, 



iiunl) 



)on. 

Broiled Trout, maitre d'hdtel, 314, 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 

Chops Soyer, with Potato Qroquettes, 647, 997. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. ' 

Jelly k la Castellar, 1325. 



Doxie Rockaway Oysters, 298, 

Consomme Massena, 102. 

Radishes, 292. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Spanish-mackerel aux fines Herbes, 331, 

Fricandeau of Veal, with Sorrel, 577. 

Croustade of Chicken k la Dreux, 762. 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Punch k la Lalla Rookh, 1308. 

Roast Woodcock, S71. 

Escarole Salad, 1035. 

St. Honor^ k la Rose Delmonico, 1212. 

Pont-de-Val Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday^ September  . 



Breakfast. 

Tomato Omelet, 459, 

Fried Soft-shelled Crabs, 368. 

P^'s Feet, sauce Piquante, 729. 

Potatoes, maitre d*hdtel, 983. 

Brioches k la Cond^, 1203. 

Cttncl)on. 

Matelote of Eels, 332. 

Breast of Veal, Milanaise, 596. 

Celery, with Cream, 929. 

Coffee Eclairs, 1244. 



JDinncr. 

East River Oysters, 298. 

Julienne, 27. 

Celery, 290. Olives. 

Sole au Gratin, 319. 

Leg of Mutton, Bretonne, 650, 

Fried Egg-plant, 907, 

Chicken Croquettes, sauce P^rigueux, 759. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

Brochette of Reed-birds, with Bacon, 877, 754. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Pineapple Water-ice, 1283, 

Sponge Cake, 1195. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



109 



Tuesday, September  . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs & la Duchesse, 449. 

Salmon Tails, Brofled, 308. 

CalTs Liver 5aut & ritalienne, 580. 

Sorrel au Jus, 973. 
Apples and Rice M^ringuees, 1169. 



CttncI) 



on. 

Frogs a la Poulette, 399. 

Tripe k la Mode de Caen. 547. 

Sweet Potatoes, Hollandaise, 999. 

Plum Pie, 1094. 



Clams, 300. 

Clear Green Turtle, 18. 

Radishes, 292. Mortadella, 2^7. 

Chicken Halibut, Cream sauce, 309, 181. 

Lamb's Kidneys, stewed with Cepes, 714. 

String Beans, 948. 

Sweetbreads kla Pompadour, 618. 

Broiled Mushrooms on Toast, 916. 

Roast Lamb, Mmt sauce, 1361, 169, 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Charlottes Panachees, 1300. 

Coffee, i349> 



Wednesday, September 



Breakfast, 

Oatmeal. 

Omelet, with Kidneys, 463. 

Broiled Porterhouse Steak, 524, 

Fried Onions, 969. 

Fresh Pears. 

Ctmcl)eon. 

Oysters k la Mali, 386. 

Hashed Mutton a la Zingara, 652. 

Stuffed f^-plant, 909. 

Russian Salad, 1065. 
Huckleberry Tarts, 1113. 



^Dinner. 



Keyport Oysters, 298. 

Consomm^ Celesdne, 118. 

Celery, 290. Bologna Sausage, 286> 

Fresh Mackerel k la Venitienne, 338. 

Braised Beef, Flamande, 482. 

Green Peas k la Fran^aise, 977. 

Fillau of Chicken k la Creole, 783. 

Sorrel, with Cream, 973. 

Roast Plover and Watercress, 865. 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad, 1060. 

Apricot Pudding k la Richelieu, 1x51. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday, September  . 



Breakfast. 



Omelet, with Smoked Beef, 461. 

Broiled Spanish-mackerel, 329. 

Lamb Fries, Broiled k la Diable, 672. 

Potatoes. Julienne, 1013. 

Peaches and Cream . 



Cuncl)on. 



Blackfish, White Wine, 342. 

Pigeon Cutlets a la Victoria, 815. 

Spinach, with Crolltons, 940. 

Savarin, 1197. 



SUtnner. 



Clams, 300. 

Mulligatawney, 34. 

Radishes. 292. Caviare, 281. 

Lobster a la Newburg, 359. 

Larded Tenderloin ofBeef dla Bemardi, 523. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

Vol-au-Vent k la Toulouse, 811. 

Squabs sur Canape, 816. 

Celery Salad, Mayonnaise, 1042. 

Vanilla Ice-cream, 1271. 

AUumettes 1205. 

Coffee, 1349. 



I lO 



THE TABLE. 



Friday, September  . 



Brtakfaet. 



Eggs au Beurre noir, 414, 

Fried Porgies, Tartare sauce, 3Sso, 207. 

Hashed Beef k la Catalan, 502. 

Stewed Fresh Tomatoes, 1027. 

Rice k la Eonne Femmej 1172. 



CuncI) 



con. 

Picked-up Codfeh, 346. 

Chicken k la Maryland, 785. 

Spaghetti a I'ltallenne, 960. 

Pineapple Pie, 1087, 



!Dtnncr, 



Parker Bay Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Celery, 71. 

Olives. Radishes, 292. 

Scallops k la Foulette, 392, 379. 

Chicken Livers Sautes, with Madeira, 767. 

Artichokes, Barigoul, 8g6. 

Lamb Chops k la Villeroi, 686. 

Asparagus, sauce Hollandaise, 904. 

Roast English Snipe, 868. 

Chicory Salad, 1045, 

English Pudding, 1137. 

Coffee, X349. 



Saturday^ September  . 



BreakfaBt. 

Omelet, with Green Peas, 459. 

Broiled Ham, 753. 

Tripe k la Creole, 545. 

Sweet Potatoes Souffl^es/ loio. 

Baked Apples, 11 24. 



Ctrncl) 



]on. 

Skate, with black Butter, 325, 159. 

Mutton Chops k la Frovengale, 642. 

String Beans, with Cream, 946., 

Potato Salad, 1073. 

Sherry Wine JellV. 1318. 



JBiriticr. 

Blue Point Oysters, 298, 

A la Russe, 53. 

Celery, 290. Mortadella, 287. 

Red-snapper, fine Herbs, 315. 

Epigrammes of Lamb, with Asparagus - tops, 

689. 

Lima Beans, 952. 

Croustade of Chicken Livers a la Dreux, 763. 

Roast Turkey, 800. 

Tomato, Mayonnaise Salad, X071. 

Baba au Mad^re, 1217. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday^ September 



Srcakfast. 

Eggs k I'Aurore, 444. 

Trout, maitre d'hdtel, 314. 

Hashed Chicken au Gratin, 805. 

Potatoes en Paille, 1014. 

Cream Renversee, 1252. 

Cuncl)on. 

Crabs a la St. Laurent, 372. 

Calfs-head k la Cavour, 638. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Timbales k la Schultze, 263. 

Water-melon k la Seward, 1317. 



JDtnner. 



Clams, 300. 

Cream k TAUemande, 84. 

Celery, 290. Olives. 

Whitebait, 30T. 

Tenderloin Pique k la Duchesse, 516. 

Com Saute au Beurre, 964. 

Salmi of Snipe kla Regence, 861. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Romaine Punch, 1304. 

Roast Ducklings, 824. 

Lettuce Salad, 1058. 

Cocoanut Pudding, ii47( 

Mazagran k la General Dufour, X39a. 



MENUS. 



I II 



Monday, September 



Breakfast. 

Omelet, with fine Herbs, 451. 

Broiled Sea-bass, ma!tre d*h6tel, 329.< 

Minced Veal k la Biscaenne, 576. 

Potatoes Sautes, 995. 

Musk-meloD. 

Cuncl)on. 

Fried Porgira, 320. 

Stewed Lamb with Potatoes, 659. 

Oyster-plant & la Foulette, 1019. 

Rhubarb Tarts, 1112. 



JDinncr. 

Limi Haven Oysters, 298.' 

Rice and Tomatoes, 57, 

Anchovies, 284. Radishes, 292. 

Bluefish au Grtitin, 319. 

Mignons Filets a la Parisienne, 514. 

Stuffed Cucumbers, 937. 

Salmi of Duck, with Olives, 827. 

Roast Mutton. 585. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Lemon Water-ice, 1279. 

Bitter Almond Macaroons, 1209. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday^ September  . 



Breakfast. 

Scrambled ^gs, with Mushrooms, 406. 

Codfish a THoUandaise, 352, 160. 

Stewed Tripe k la Lyonnaise, 548. 

Green Com Saute au Beurre, 964. 

French Pancake, 11 86. 



uncl)eon. 



Oyster Patties, 387. 

Hashed Turkey a la Polonaise, 803. 

Onions, with Cream, 96S. 

Charlotte Russe, 1261. 



^Dinner. 

Clams, 300. 

Bisque of Lobster, 10. 

Radishes, 292. Olives. 

Stuffed Deviled Crabs, 370. 

Braised Beef k I'Orsini, 481. 

Lima Beans, 952. 

Chicken Saut^ k la Bordelaise, 776. 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Roast Loin of Veal, 585. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 
Omelet Celestine, 477. 
Coffee, 1349- 



Wednesday^ September  . 



Brfakfast. 



Omelet Raspail, 467. 

Fried Smelts, Tomato sauce, 301, 205. 

Beefsteak with Watercress, 524, 

Saratoga Potatoes, loii. 
Preserved Strawberries, 1345- 



oncl)on. 



Stuffed Deviled Clams, 376. 

Veal Cudcts k la Philadelphia, 565. 

Sweet Potatoes, Hollandaise, 999. 

Rice and Orange Pudding, 1133. 



Pinner. 



Small Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Consomm^ Imp^riale, III. 

Olives. Celery, 290. 

Edible Snails i la Bourguignonne, 393. 

Broiled Sirloin Steaks i la Bearnaise, 492. 

Beans Panachees, 950. 

Vol-au-Vent k la Reine, 812. 

Oyster-plant k la Poulette, 1019. 

Roast Plovers, with Watercress, 865, 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Pudding a la Diaz, 1135. 

Coffee, 1349, 



112 



THE TABLE. 



Thursday, September  . 



Brsakfaat. 



Scrambled Eggs, with Truffles, 407. 

Fried Porgies, 320. 

Broiled Lamb Steak, Pur^e of Peas, 716. 

Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. 

Rice au Lait d'Amandes, 1170. 



Cnncl)on. 



Broiled Boned Smelts, Tartare sauce, 353, 

207. 

Stewed Beef ^ la Dufour, 541. 

Broiled Mushroons on Toast, 916. 

Apple Meringue Pie, 1103. 



?D inner. 

Oysters, 298. 

Mikado, 32. 

Celery, 290. Radishes, 292. 

Lobster en Chevreuse, 362. 

Sweetbreads h. la Colbert, 617. 

Green Peas, 978. 

Lamb Chops k la Clichy^ 684. 

Broiled Egg-plant, 908. 

Roast Woodcock, 871. 

Watercress Salad, 1072, 

Baba, CrSme de Vamlle, 1218. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, September 



I8rakfa0t. 



JDtnner, 



Crab Omelet, 455. 

Broiled Fresh Mackerel, maitre d'hdtel, 329. 

Sausages k I'ltalienne, 737. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 

Brioche, 1201. 



Cunc^ 



on. 

Mussels a la Marinifere, 378. 

Broiled Lamb Steaks k I'Americaine, 718. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

French Pancake k la Gel^e, 1187, 



Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Sorrel, Fermitre, 81. 

Celery, 290. Bologna Sausage, 286. 

Pompano, Egg sauce, 309, 161. 

Tenderloin of Beef k la Nivernaise, 505. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. 

Chicken Croquettes, with Green Peas, 276. 

Macaroni Napolitaine, 957. 

Reed-birds, 877. 

Tomato Salad, 1070. 

Neapolitan Ice-cream, 1292. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday, September  , 



Breakfaet. 



Hominy and Cream, 1034. 

Ham and Eggs, 412, 753. 

Brochette of Lamb k la Dumas, 674. 

Potatoes a la Hanna, 1012. 

Fresh Pears. 



Cttncl)on. 



Oysters k la Baltimore, 388. 

Breast of Veal, Milanaise, 596. 

Sweet Potatoes, Hollandaise, 999. 

CocoanutPie, zzoz. 



IDinner.  

East River Oysters, 298. 

Oxtail a I'Anglaise, 40. 

Lyons Sausage, 286. Radishes, 292. 

Salmon k la Creole, 339. 

Saddle of Mutton, Currant Jelly, 666. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

Pigeons en Compote, 822. 

Cardons k la Moelle, 931, 

Roast Beef, 327- 

Chicory Salad, Z046. 

Rice Pudding, 1143. 

Coffee, Z349. 



MENUS,- 



^13 



Sunday^ September 



Breakfast. 



JDinmr. 



Omelet, with Truffles, 460. 

Fried Whitebait, 301, 

Chicken Livers Sautes au Mad^re, 767. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Milan Cake, 1238. 



Citntl)on. 



Welsh Rarebit, Golden Buck, 295, 

Shoulder of Lamb, Macedoine, 697. 

Macaroni, with Cheese, 954. 

Salmon Salad, 1066. 

Green-gage Pie, 1093. 



Clams, 300. 

Puree of Game hi la Destaing, 89. 

Olives. Celery, 200. 

Broiled Soft-shelled Crabs k la Diable, 369. 

Veal Cutlets, St. Cloud, 561. 

Artichokes, Vinaigrette, 902. 

Chicken Fricasse k I'Americaine, 781 . 

Cauliflower, Hollaudaise, 925, 160. 

Punch k la Fran^aise, 1311. 

Roast Woodcock, 871. 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad, 1060. 

Macedoine k la Cavour, 1298. 

Gorgonzolla Cheese. 

Qoffee, 1349. 



Monday^ September 



Srcakfast. 



Eggs k la Bourguignonne, 411. 

Fish Balls, 347, 

Sausages, with White Wine, 735. 

Hashed Potatoes," with Cream, 1003. 

Baked Apples, 1124. 



Ctincl)on. 



HJinner. 



Oysters k la Pompadour, 384. 

Brochette of Lamb, with Bacon, 674, 754, 

Macaroni a la Creme, 954. 

Herring Salad, 1074. 

Blackberry Tarts, ZZX9. 



Small Blue Point Oysters, 298. 

Printanier Colbert, 121. 

Mortadella, 287. Radishes, 292. 

Fried Smelts, sauce Tartare, 301, 207. 

Breast of Turkey, Celery Sauce, 806, 200. 

String Beans, with Cream, 946. 

Croquettes of Sweetbreads, Beamaise, 619, 166. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Roast Grouse, 852. 

Escarole Salad, 1055 . 

Indian Pudding, 1x45. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday^ September  , 



I5rcakfast. 



Tomato Omelet, 456. 

Broiled Bluefish, 329. 

Hashed Turkey en Bordure, 805. 

Potatoes en Paille, 1014, 

Stewed Rhubarb, U12. 



Cttnl)eon. 



Broiled Lobster k la Diable, 364. 

Stewed Mutton, Solferino, 656. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. 

French Pudding a la Delmonico, 1159. 

8 



JBinner. 



Clams, 300. 

Vermicelli, 103. 

Olives. Celery, 290. 

Spanish -mackerel a la Toulouse, 334. 

Calf s-head k la Vinaigrette, 640. 

Stewed Corn, 964. 

Coquilles of Chicken a I'Anglaise, 271. 

Artichokes Sautes, 897. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Rice kla Conde, 1x81. 

Coffee, 1349. 



114 



THE TABLE. 



Wednesday, September 



Bi^eokfast. 



Cnnclieon. 



Dinner. 



Eggs au Miroir, 425, 

Boiled Fresh Haddock^ Cream sauce, 352, 

Lamb Steak a I'Americaine, 718. 

Stewed Turnips, with Cream, 967. 

Musk-melon. 



Codfish, HoUandaise sauoe, 352, 160 

Veal Cutlets en Papillotes, 566. 

Spaghetti au Gratin, 961. 

Chocolate Eclairs, 1243. 



Small Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Renaissance, 115. 

Radishes, 292. Anchovies, ii84. 

Broiled Soft-shelled Crabs a la Diable, 369, 

Broiled Tenderloin a la Biamaise,4g2. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Spring Lamb Chops a la Clichy, 684. 

Green Peas, 978. 

Roast Capon, 755. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Rice, with Apples, 1169. 

Coffee. 1349. 



Thursday^ September 



Breakfast. 

Oatmeal and Cream. 

Kidney Omelet, 463. 

Mutton Chops k la Provengale, 642. 

Succotash, 1022. 

Cream Renversee, 1252. 

uncl)on. 
I 

Fried Sea-bass, 320. 

Stewed Veal k la Marengo, 624. 

Sweet Potatoes, HoUandaise, 999. 

Mille-feuilles, 1223. 



S) inner. 

Prince's Bay Oysters, 298. 

Consomm^ Patti, 126. 

Mortadella, 287. Celery, 290. 

Kennebec Salmon, Cream sauce, 303, 181. 

Grenadin of Veal il'Afncaine, 589. 

Beans Panachees, 950. 

Turban of Chicken a la Cleveland, 791. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 

Roast Snipe, 868. 

Celery Salad, 1041, 

Peach Ice-cream, 1276. 

Vanilla Ice-cream, 1271, 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday^ September  . 



- Ux-eakfaBt. 

Omelet a I'Espagnole, 472. 

Broiled Pompano, 329. 

Pork Chops, sauce Robert, 746. 

Broiled Sweet Potatoes, 983. 

Corn Fritters, 965. 



%mit\)t 



Ijcon. 

Stuffed DevUed Clams, 376. 

Tendron" of Veal, Puree of Lentils, 633, 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Crab Salad, 1047. 

Omelet au Kirsch, 476. 



5D inner. 



Clams, 300. 

Fish Chowder, 12. 

Cucumbers, 289. Olives. 

Fresh Mackerel en Papillotes, 330. 

Cutlets of Venison, Port Wine sauce, 891. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

Supreme of Chicken a la Rothschild, 790. 

Succotash, 1022. 

Roast Loin of Veal, 585. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Fruit Pudding, 1161. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



115 



Saturday, September 



Breakfast. 

-E^gs k la Chipolata, 443. 

Broiled Sardines on Toast. 403. 

Hashed Mutton k la Zingara, 652. 

Stewed Carrots, 927. 

Preserved Cherries, 1347. 



nncl)con. 



JDiniur. 



BroQed Boned Smelts, a la Beamaise, 353. 

Braised Beef, Russian sauce, 485. 

Lima Beans, 952. 

Apricot Tarts, 1335. 



Cherry Stone Oysters, 298. 

Jardiniere, 38. 

Celeryj 290. Mortadella, 287. 

Kennebec Salmon k I'lrlandaise, 307. 

Minced Veal a la Catalan, 575. 

Potatoes HoUandaise, 999. 

Salmi of Snipe k la Florentine, S57. 

Spinach, with Eggs, 940. 

Roast Goose, Apple sauce, 808, 168. 

Tomato Salad, 1070. 

Charlotte Russe, 1261. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday^ September 



i3reakfa0t. 



Hominy and Cream, Z034. 

Boiled Eggs. 

Broiled Deviled Soft-shelled Crabs, 369. 

Lamb Chops, Breaded, 643. 

Potatoes, maltre d'h6tel, 985. 

Brioche, 1201. 



Cuncl)Mn. 



Crabs a la St, Jean, 371, 

Broiled Turkey Legs k la Diable, 766. 

Stewed Green Com, 964, 

Japanese Salad, I075. 

Apple Fritters, 1191. 



!Dtnner. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Chicken k la Portugaise, 66. 

Lyons Sausage, 286. Radishes, 292, 

Smelts k la Toulouse, 354. 

Tenderloin of Beef k la Montglas, 503, 213. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

Chicken Saut^ k la Bohimienne, 778. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Champagne Punch, 1307. 

Reed-birds en Brochette au Petit Sale, 877, 754. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Pudding k la U. S. Grant, 1159. 

Mazagran k la General Bugeau, 1391. 



Monday^ September  . 



jBrcakfaat. 

Omelet, with fine Herbs, 451. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Hashed Chicken a la Creme, B04. 

French Fried Potatoes, 993. 

IcedTimbale of Rice, 1175. 



Cuncl)on. 



Oysters a la Baltimore, 388. 

Chops Soyer, Fried Potatoes, 647. 

Sorrel au Gras, 974. 

Rhubarb Tarts, 1Z12. 



Dinner. 

Doxie Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Cauliflower, 73. 

Celery, 290. Olives. 

Weakfish au Gratin, 3x9. 

Ballotin of Lamb, with Peas, 675. 

Fried Egg-plant, 907. 

Fillet of Chicken k la Patti, 789. 

Tomatoes k la Bock, X026. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Lettuce Salad, 1058. 

Meringues Panach^es, 1302. 

Coffee, Z349. 



ii6 



THE TABLE. 



Tuesday, September  . 



Breakfast. 



?Bmncr. 



Scrambled Eggs, yrith Asparagus-tops. 406. 

Bass, sauce Mayonnaise, 352, 206. 

Calfs Liver k TAlsacienne, 5S2. 

Stewed Lima Beans, 952. 

Stewed Prunes, 1330. 



Cancl)on. 



Scallops Brestoise, 392. 

Curry of Lamb k I'lndienne, 677. 

Sweet Potatoes Soufil^es, loio. 

Gingerbread, 1213, 



Massachusetts Bay Oysters, 298. 

Consomme d'Orleans, no. 

Radishes, 292. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Spanish-mackerel & I'ltalienne, 337. 

Sweetbreads'^ la Soubise, 606. 

Succotash, 1022. 

Broiled Venison Steaks, Currant Jelly sauce, ^ 

884. 

Cepes Bordelaise,.gi3. 

Roast Chicken, with Watercress, 755. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. 

Cherry Water-ice, 1282, 

Almond Cake, 1224. 

Coflfce, 1349. 



Wednesday^ September  . 



33reakfp:0t 



Poached Eggs on Toast, 404. 

Oysters en Brochette, with Bacon, 385. 

Minced Beef k la Catalan, 502. 

Stewed Potatoes, 995. 

Milan Cake, 1228. ' 



iCttncl)on. 



Codfish k la Provengale, 352, 642, 

Hashed Chicken, with Cream, 804. 

Herring Salad, 1C74, 

-Kirsch Jelly, 1319. 



Dinner. 



* Clams, 300. 

Cream of Celery k I'Espagnole, 86. 

Tomatoes, 2S8. Olives. 

Crawfish, Bordelaise, 360. 

Lamb Chops k la Robinson, 68z. 

Com, Stewed with Cream, 963. 

Curry of Chicken k I'Espagnole, 793. 

Oyster-plant a la Poulette, 1Q19, 

Roast Partridges, 843, 

Cauliflower Salad, X040. 

Kelson Pudding, 1153. 

Coffee* 1349. 



Thursday^ September  . 



Bnakfaat. 



Sccambled Eggs, with Tomatoes, 406. 

Fried Eels, 335. 

Broiled Cairs Liver and Bacon, 5S4. 

Potatoes k I'HoUandaise, 999. 

Peaches and Cream. 



Cttncl)on. 



Frogs a la Poulette, 399. 

Chicken Pot-pie, 757. 

Mushrooms, Stewed with Cream, 915. 

Gooseberry Pie, 1091. 



JPtnmr. 

East River Oysters, 298. 

Ox-tail a I'Ecossaise, 39. 

Celery, 290. Mortadella, 287. 

Haddock with White Wine, 342. 

Boiled Turkey, Egg sauce, 798, 

Fried Egg-plant, 907. ' 

Sweetbreads a la Colbert, 617, 

String Beans, 948. 

Roast Woodcock, 871. 

Watercress Salad, T072. 

Baked Apple Dumplings, 1122. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



117 



Friday, September 



IBreokfaat. 



JDinntr. 



Crab Omelet, 455. 

Broiled Fresh Mackerel, maitre d'h6tel, 329. 

Tripe h. ia Poulette, 546. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes. 

Creme en Mousse au Cafe, 1253. 



Cttncl)on. 



Fried Soft-shelled Crabs, 368. 

Corned Beef with Kale-cprouts, 490. 

Lobster Salad, 1061. 

Rum Omelet, 476. 



Clams, 300. 

Puree Faubonne, 46. 

Olives. Radishes, 292. 

Sheep's-head, Egg sauce, 352, 161. 

Pork Chops, Apple sauce, 748. 

Beans Panachees, 950. 

Chicken Croquettes k la Perigordine, 761. 

Green Peas, 978. 

Roast Leg of Mutton, 648. 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Lemon Ice-cream, 1278. 

Pithiviers Cake, 1225. 

Coffee, Z349. 



Saturday^ September  . 



Breakfast. 



IBtimcr. 



ggs k la Tripe, 4x9. 

Broiled Fresh Perch, 314. 

Mutton Kidneys, Saut^ k I'ltalienne, 663. 

Potatoes Duchesse, 1006. 

French Pancake, 1186. 



Cttntl)on. 



Pompano, with Sorrel, 327. 

Broiled Sirloin' Steaks k la Bordelaise, 491. 

Spaghetti k I'ltalienne, 663. 

Strawberry Tarts, 1 1 17. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Consomm^ a I'Anglaise, 119. 

Tomatoes, 288. Lyons Sausage, z86. 

Porgies aux fines Herbes, 315. 

Sweetbreads en Petitcs Caisses, 274. 

Stuffed Egg-plant, 909. 

Squabs en Crapaudine, 8x9. 

Green Peas k la Fran^aise, 977. 

Roast Saddle of Venison, 878. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Indian Pudding, 1145. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday^ September  . 



Breakfast. 



inner. 



EgE^ a la Bennett, 447. 

Broiled Spanish-mackerel, Anchovy Butter, 

329, X46. 

Hashed Lamb, k I'Anglaise, 688. 

Potatoes Julienne, 1013. 

Fresh Green-gages. 



Cuncljeon. 



Lobster k la Newburg, 359. 

Breaded Veal Cutlets, Tomato sauce, 563. 

Russian Salad, X065. 

Timbales k la Schultze, 263, 

Rice and Cream k la Croce, 1296. 



Small Blue Point Oysters, 298. 

Piur^e k la Gentilhomme, 90. 

Celery, 290. Olives, 

Sheep's-head k la Creole, 339. 

Tenderloin of Beef k la Hussard, 519. 

Sorrel au Gras, 974. 

Chicken k la Ranhofer, 1363, 

Cardons k la Moelle, 931. 

Punch k la Lorenzo Delmonico, 1303. 

Woodcock sur Canapd, 871. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Cabinet Pudding k la Sadi-Carnot, 1164. 

Mazagran k la General Dufour, 1392. 



ii8 



THE TABLE. 



Monday, September 



Ureokfaat. 

Eggs au Soleil, 415. 

Picked-up Codfish, 346. 

Beefsteak with Watercress, 524. 

Saratoga Potatoes, loii. 

Stewed Apples, 1332. 

Ciincl)on. 

Oyster Patties, 387. 

Lamb Chops k. la Robinson, 682. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Vanilla Eclairs, 1245. 



JDinncr. 



Clams, 300. 

Mock Turtle, 17. 

Sardines, 283. Radishes, 292. 

Bass k la Chambord, 343. 

Chartreuse of Partridge, 849. 

Curry of Chicken k la Creole, 794. 

Beans, with Cream, 946. 

Roast Loin of Lamb, 585. 

Lettuce Salad, 1058. 

Rhubarb Pie, 1085. 

Apricot Water-ice, 1285. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday^ October 



jBrcakfast. 

Eggs & la Pauvre Femme, 4^7, 

Broiled Boned Smelts, Tartare sauce, 353, 207. 

Sausages, with White Wine, 733. 

Beet-roots, Sautes au Beurre, 911. 

Brioches Fluttes, 1204. 



JDtnna, 



tintl)on. 



White Porgies, with Fine Herbs, 315. 

Ragout of Veal ^i la Chasseur, 632,' 

Cauliflower & rHollandaise, 925, x6o. 

Mince Pie, io8a. 



Oysters, agS. 

Purde ]\{oiigole, 50. 

Olives. Celery, 290 

Striped Bass, with White Wine, 342. 

Brisotin of Veal & TEcarlate, 555. 

Lima Beans, 952. 

Lamb Sweetbreads en Caisses, 274. 

Artichoke-bottoms, Florentine, 903. 

Roast Grouse sur Canape, 852. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Peach Pudding, 1150. 

Coffee, z349< 



Wednesday^ October 



Sr^akfoBt. 

Omelet k la Proven9ale, 457. 

Codfish i I'Hollandaise, 352, 160. 

Corned Beef Hash a la Zingara, 530. 

Saratoga Potatoes, loi i. 

Fresh Pears, 



Ctincl)on. 



Crabs k la St. Laurent, 372. 

Blanquette of Veal k la Reine, 550. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Apple Cake, 1211. 



JBinncr. 



Clams, 300, 

Crofite-au-P6t, 11. 

Radishes, 292. Anchovies, 284. 

Bluefish k la Venitienne, 338. 

Pigeon Cutlets k la Victoria, 815. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Filets Mignons k la Pompadour, 509. 

Green Com, 962. 

Roast Saddle of Mutton, 664. 

Celery Salad, X04J;. 

Lemon Pudding, 1157. 

Coffee; X349. 



MNUi!. 



119 



Thursday^ October  . 



Suakfast. 



Elinncr. 



Barley, with Cream. 

E^gs k la Turque. 439. 

Broiled Sirloin Steak, with Watercress, 491. 

Potatoes, Chateau, 1009. 

Baked Apples, 1124. 



Ctincl)on. 



Soles k la Joinville, 322. 

Hashed Chicken k la Royale, 801. 

Macaroni au Gratin, 955. 

Crme en Mousse au Cafe, 1253, 



East River Oysters, 298. 

Consomm^ Douglas, 114. 

Celery, 290. Sardines, 283. 

Spanish-mackerel, with fine Herbs, 331. 

Venison Steak, Colbert sauce, 881. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Sweetbreads kla Pompadour, 618. 

Green Peas, 978. 

Roast Red-head Ducks, 876. 

Lettuce Salad, 1059. 

Omelet Souffldes, 474. 

Coffee, 1349- 



Friday^ October 



Brcawfast. 



Oyster Omelet, 452. 

Haddock. Cream sauce, 352, 181. 

Pig's Feet k la St. Hubert, 727. 

Mashed Potatoes au Gratin, 998. 

P.ice k la Fran9ai5e, 1180. 



Cttncl)on. 



Lobster k I'Amiricaine, 357. 

Beef Braised k la Providence, 480. 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Baked Apples, 1124. 



JDinner. 



Oak Island Oysters, 298. 

Busecca a la Milanaise. 7. 

Tomatoes, 288. Olives. 

Frogs k la Bordelaise, 398, 186. 

Amourettes of Lamb k la Diable, 672. 

Spaghetti a I'ltalienne, 960. 

Stewed Veal k la Chasseur, 632. 

Celery, with Gravy, 928. 

Roast Partridge sur Canape, 843. 

Escarole Salad, 1055, 

Baba au Rhum, 1217. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday^ October  . 



, Sreakfast. 

Eggs k la Bourgu^onne, 411. 

Mutton Chops, with Watercress, 647. 

 Broiled Bacon, 754. 

Potatoes k la Rice, 1007. 

Apricot Preserves, 1340' 

Ctintl)on. 

Stuffed Oysters k la Mali, 386. 

CUcken Pot-pie, 757. 

Stuffed Cucumbers, 937. 

Cherry Tarts, mi. 



JBinner. 



Keyport Oysters, 298, 

Pur^e Soubise of White Beans, 92. 

Celery, 290. Mortadella, 2S7. 

Perch au Gratin, 356. 

Double Porterhouse Steak k la Bordelaise, 525, 

491. 

Fried Egg-plant, 907. 

Salmi of Grouse k la Walter Scott, 856. 

String Beans, 948. 

Roast Lamb, Mint sauce, 1361, 169. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Piitache Ice-cream, 1275. 

Small Meringues k la Ch. C. Delmonico, 1249. 

Coffee, 1349. 



I20 



THE TABLE. 



Sunday, October  , 



Ireakfaat. 

i 
Omelet k I'Espagnole, 472, 
Broiled Kingfish, 329. 
Hashed Turkey h. la Cr^me, 804. 

Succotash, 1022. 
Whipped Cream k la Vanille, 1254. 



Cuncl)tott. 



Terrapin k la Newburg, 396, 359. 

Broiled Spring Chicken, with Bacon, 756. 

Sweet Potatoes Soufflees, loio, 

Timbales kla Schultze, 263. 

Water-melon a la Romero, 1315. 



Dinner. 



Clams, 300. 

Consomm^ Renaissance, 1x5/ 

Olives. Radishes, 292. 

Red-snapper, Egg sauce, 352, 161. 

Fricandeau of Veal, with Sorrel, 577. 

Supremes of Chicken k. la Bayard, 787. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023, 

Punch kla Cardinal, 1306. 

Roast Canvas-b&ck Duck, 874. 

Fried Hominy, 1035. 

Celery Salad, Mayonnaise, 1042. 

Plum Pudding, 1163. 

English Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday^ October  . 



33rakfa0t. 



SDinner, 



Eggs au Gratin, 418. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Stewed Kidneys, with Madeira, 662. 

Potatoes, Julienne, 1013. 

Preserved Cherries, 1347. 



Ctincl)con. 



Scallops, Brestoise, 392. 

Hashed Turkey, with Cream, 804. 

Macaroni au Gratin, 955. 

Apricot Tarts, 1108. 



Shrewsbury Oysters, 298. 

Giblet, with Barley, 21. 

Celery, 290. Sardines, 283. 

^heep's-head, mattre d'hdtel, 329. 

Sweetbreads k la Catalan, 616. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 

Tenderloin of Beefaux Gourmets, 508. 

French Peas. 

Roast Pigeons, with, Gravy, 816. 

Barbe de Capucine Salad, 1038. 

Turban of Apples, 1174. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday^ October 



Breakfast. 



Omelet, with fine Herbs, 451. 

Fried Whitebait, 301. 

Andouillettes, Broiled, 742. 

Hashed Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. 

Rice, with Apples, Meringuees, 1169. 



Cuncf}eon. 



Boned Boiled Smelts, sauce Beamaise, 353. 

Cromesquis k la Richelieu, 764. 

Spinach, with Crofltons, 940. 

Prunes k la G^n^ral Dufour, 1330. 



{Dinner. 

Clams, 300. 

Gumbo of Crabs, 24. 

Radishes, 292. Lyons Sausage, 286, 

Bass en Matolote, 332, 

Hashed Lamb k la Polonaise, 700. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027, 

Partridge, Celery sauce, 847. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Russian Salad, X065, 

Fritters, Soufflees k la Vanille, 1192. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



121 



Wednesday, October  . 



Bi-eakfaat. 



innn'. 



Eg^ k Reine, 438. 

Black Basss, Caper sauce, 352, 651. 

Stewed CalTs Liver h I'ltalienne, 580. 

Stewed Tomatoe^ 1027. 

Rice Cake. 1223. 

uncl)on. 

Canape Madison, 269^ 

broiled Lamb Steaks, Pur^e de Marrc 

716, 131. 

Sweet Potatoes, HoUandaise, 999, 

French Pudding k la Delmonico, 1139. 



Small Rockaway Oysters. 298. 

Consomra^ Dubourg, loi. 

Olives. Celery, 290. 

Bluefish, Oyster sauce, 352. 

Saddle of Venison, Londondery sauce, 878, 880. 

Brussels Sprouts. 922. 

Larded Fillet ofCeef i. la Sevign^, 520. 

Beans Panach^es, 950. 

Roast Plover, 865. 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Charlotte Russe, 1261. 

Coffee, is-tg. 



Thursday^ October 



I3i"akfast. 



Omelet, with fine Herbs. 451. 

Broiled Deviled Soft-shelled Crabs, 369. 

Hashed Beef au Gratin, 529. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 

Peach Marmalade. 1331. 



Cttncl)on. 



Broiled Bluefish, maitre d'hdtel, 329. 

Tendroa of Veal, Nantaise, 633. 

Fried Potatoes, 993, 

Herring Salad, 1074. 

Savarin, 1197. 



JiD inner. 



Clams, 300. 

Ox'tail k I'Anglaise, 40. 

Nv'atercress, 1072. Lyons Sausage, 286 

Matelote of Eels, 332. 

Roast Ham, Champagne sauce, 723. 

Carrots k la Bechamel, 927, 154. 

Venison Chops, Port Wine sauce, 891. 

Sorrel au Gras, 974. 

Roast Squabs on Toast. 816. 

Chicory Salad, Z045. 

English Pudding, 1137. 

Coffee. 1349. 



Friday, October  . 



Breakfast. 

Eggs k la Vanderbilt, 420. 

Broiled Sardines on Toast, 403. 

Lamb Chops k la Robinson, 68a. 

Sweet Potatoes, Broiled, 983. 

Preserved Strawberries, 1345. 

Cnncljeon, 

Fillet of Soles, maitre d'hfttel, 326. 

Hamburg Steak, Russian sauce, 526. 

Spaghetti Napolitaine, 959. 

Lobster Salad, 1061, 
Iced Timbale of Rice, 1173- 



JDtnner. 



Linn Haven Oysters, 298. 

Bisque of Crabs, 9. 

Cucumbers, sSg. Olives. 

Stuffed Deviled Lobster, 367. 

Curry of Lamb k I'lndienne, 677. 

Cfipes k la Bordelaise, 913. 

Vol-au-Vent Financifere, 810. 

Flageolets, 1365. 

Roast Grouse, 852. 

Escarole Salad. 1055. 

Omelet au KIrsch, 476. 

Coffee. 1349. 



122 



THE TABLE. 



Saturday, October 



Breakfast. 

Hominy and Cream, Z034. 

Scrambled Eggs, with Ham, 408. 

Broiled Porterhouse Steak, 524. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes, 991. 

Wheat Cakes, 1184. 



tincl)on. 



Codfish Tongues, Cream sauce, 349, iSi 

Minced Tenderloin, Portugaise, 501. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. 

Boiled Apple Dumplings, 1127. 



JDtnner. 

Parker Bay Oysters, 298. 

Consomme d'Orl^ans, no. 

Celery, 290. Bologna Sausage, 286. 

Broiled Devilbd Soft-shelled Crabs. 369. 

Sweetbreads au Salpicon, 603. 

Tomatoes &la Marseillaise, 1029. 

Squabs en Compote, 822. 

Cauliflower, sauce Hollandaise, 925, x6o. 

Saddle of Venison, Currant Jelly, 878. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Meringues & I'Helvetienne, 1251, 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday^ October  . 



Breakfast. 



JBinner. 



Eggs, with Celery, 427. 

Broiled Spanish-mackerel, maitre d'h6tel, 329. 

Mutton Kidneys, Sautes aux Champignons, 714. 

Sweet Potatoes Soufflees, loio. 

Maraschino Cream, 1257. 



Cuncl)on. 



Mussels k la Marini^re, 378. 

Tripe hi. la Bordelaise, 544. 

Broiled Grouse k la Pomeroy, 1390. 

Cauliflower Salad, 1040. 
German Pancake, with Apples, 1189. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Westmoreland, 33. 

Olives, Radishes, 292. 

Terrapin a la Maryland, 397. 

Escalops of Sweetbreads, Richelieu, 574. 

Green Peas, 978. 

Chicken, Saut^ & la Regence, 777. 

Stuffed Egg-plant, 909. 

Oranges Glacees a la George Renauldt, 1297. 

Roast Red-head Duck, 876. 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Pudding a la Diaz, 1135. 

Camembert Cheese, 

Coffee, Z349. 



Monday, October 



Breakfast, 



Omelet aux Saucisses, 465. ' 

Boiled Chicken Halibut, Cream sauce, 309, 181. 

Beefsteak, with Watercress, 524. 

Fried Saratoga Potatoes, loiz. 

Fresh Grapes, 



CnncI) 



con. 

Perch, Remoulade sauce, 314, 209. 

Veal Cutlets, Pagasqui, 560. 

Oyster-plant, Poulette, 10x9, 

Cranberry Tarts, 1116, 



!Dtnner. 

Shrewsbury Oysters, 298. 

Spaghetti, with Tomatoes, 56. 

Sardines, 283. Celery, 290. 

Fried Sea-bass, sauce Tartare, 320, 207. 

Broiled Deviled Turkey Legs, 766. 

Stewed Onions and Cream, 968. 

Lamb Chops, maison d'or, 683, 

Stuffed Tomatoes k la Reme, 1024. 

Roast Snipe sur Canape, 868. 

Romaine Salad, X064. 

Bread Pudding, 1132, 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS, 



123 



Tuesday, October  . 



Breakfast. 



inner. 



' [Scrambled Eggs, with Asparagus-tops> 406. 

Fried Smelts, Tomato sauce, 301, 205. 

Broiled Lamb Fries, 672. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Com Fritters, 965. 



ttncl)on. 



Red-snapper, sauce Hollandaise, 352, 160. 

Stewed Veal, Marengo, 624. 

Spinach, with f^gs, 943. 

Chaussons. 1236. 



Parker Bay Oysters, 298. 

Clear Green Turtle, 18. 

Olives. Watercress, 1073, 

Salmon en Papillotes, 302. 

Tenderloin of Beef a la Charon, 504. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. 

Supreme of Grouse i la Perigueux, 850. 

Cardons, with Marrow, 931. 

Roast Chicken au Jus, 755. 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad, 1060. 

Chocolate Ice-cream, 1272. 

Lady-fingers, 1231. 

Coffee, 1349. 



IVednesdciy, October 



I3nakfa0t. 



Omelet Raspail, 467. 

Fried Scallops, Tartare sauce, 301, 207. 

Broiled CalPs Liver ad Bacon, 584, 

Stewed Turnips, with Gravy, 967. , 

Fresh Peats. 



uncl)on. 



Smelts au Gradn, 356. 

[Broiled Squabs on Toast, 8x7. 

Gumbo a I'Espagnole, 1030, 472. 

Rice Pudding, with Pineapple, 1130. 



lUinner, 



Clams, 300. 

Chicken k la Fi^montaise, 63. 

Radishes, 292. Celery, 290. 

Fresh Mackerel k la Beamaise, 353. 

Beef-tongue, with Spinach, 536. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Supreme of Chicken, Toulouse, 786. 

Peas a I'Ancienne Mode, 976. 

Roast Reed-birds. 877. 

Macedoine Salad, 1063, 

Omelet Soufflee, 474. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday^ October.  , 



I5reakfa0t. 

Eggs k la Meyerbeer, 437. 

Baked Sea-bass, 319. 

Minced Veal, Eiscaenne, 576. 

Potatoes, Duchesse, 1006. 

Buckwheat Cakes, 1183. 



iDinncr. 



Ctincl) 



con. 

Iiobster a la Bordelaise, 360. 
Pork and Beans, 752. 
Su^doise Salad, 1069. 
Mille-iemllcs, 1223. 



Oysters, 298, 

Cream of Sorrel, Fermifere, 81. ^ 

Mortadella, 287. Radishes, 292. 

Clams, Mariniere, 377. 

Chicken Croquettes, with Green Peas, 758. 

Stuffed Artichokes, goi. 

Broiled Tenderloin k la Stanton, 1388. 

Succotash, 1022, 

Roast Grouse, 85a. 

Celery Salad, 104X. 

Meringues k I'llelvetienne, 1251. 

Coffee, 1349. 



124 



THE TABLE. 



Friday, October  . 



35rakfaBt. 



Mltnncr. 



Omelet k la Vanderbilt, 471, 

Boiled Codfish, black Butter, 352, 159, 

Brochettfe of Lamb ^ la Dumas, 674. 

Green Com, Saute au Beurre, 964. 

Preserved Peaches, 1340, 

Cttncl)eon. 

Canap6 Lorenzo, 391. 

Minced Beef k la Portugaise, 501. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Anchovy Salad, 1037. 

Pumpkin Fie, 1099. 



Clams, 300. 

Oyster Soup, 26. 

Olives, Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Pompano, maitre d'hdtel, 329. 

Sweetbreads, with Spinach, 607. 

Saddle of Venison, Currant Jelly, 878, 

Stuffed Cucumbers, 937. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Chicory Salad, 1046, 

Rice au Lalit d'Amande, 1170. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday^ October 



Snakfaet. 



SDtnnfr. 



Omelet aux CSpes, 460. 

Picked-up Codfish, 346. 

Mignons Filets, Madeira sauce, 509, 185. 

Stewed Potatoes, Hollandaise, 999. 

Stewed Apricots, 1335. 



Ctincl)on. 



Stuffed, Deviled Crabs, 370. 

Blanquette of Veal kl*Ancienne, 553. 

French Peas. 

Hot Savarin, 1197. 



Oysters, 298. 

Brunoise, with Rice, 3, 

xomatoes, 288. Mortadella, 287. 

Sole k la Horly, 321. p 

Roast Ham', with Sweet Corn, 724. 

String Beans, with Cream, 946. 

Salmi of Duck k la Mar^chale, 831, 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

Roast Loin of Lamb, Mint sauce, 585, 169. 

Escarole Salad, Z055. 

Sago Puddmg, 1140. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday^ October  ., 



Bnakfaat. 

Eggs k la Livingstone, 410, 

Broiled Fresh Mackerel, fines Herbes, 331. 

Stewed Tripe k la Creole, 545, 

Sweet Potatoes a I'Hollandaise, 999, 

Cream Renversee, 1252. 



itncl)eon. 



Terrapin k la Baltimore, 396, 
Broiled Chicken Legs k la Diable, 766. 

Cauliflower Salad, T040. 

Timbales Foies-Gras, Lagadere, 809. 

Riz a la Bonne Femme, 1172. 



JDinncr. 

Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Consomm^ k I'Andalouse, 117. 

Celery, 290. Radishes, 292. 

Broiled Spanish-mackerel, 329. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 

Breast of Lamb k la Jardinifere, 702. 

Potatoes k la Hanna, 1012. 

Tenderloin of Beef k la Bordelaise, 491. 

Green Peas a la Crfime, 980. 

Champagne Punch, 1307. 

Roast Partridge, Larded, 843. 

Lettuce Salad, 1059. 

St. Honor^ k la Rose Delmomco, 12 12. 

Stilton Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



125 



Monday, October 



Breakfast. 



CDtnner. 



Omelet, with fresh Tomatoes, 456. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Black Sausage, mashed Potatoes, 7x9. 

Fried Egg-plant, 907. 

Brioche, 1201, 



Cttncl) 



)eon. 

Broiled Salt Mackerel, 329. 

Stuffed Oniotis, 970. 

Shoulder of Lamb, Rouennaise, 698. 

Fried Com, 963- 

Custard Pudding, 1154* 



Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Sevign^, 106. 

Olives. Watercress, 1072. 

Croquettes of Lobster, Tomato sauce, 365, 205. 

Filets Mignons k la Brown, 1382. 

Spinach, with Eggs, 940. 

Boiled Turkey, Oyster sauce, 797. 

Stuffed Green Peppers, 975. 

Snipe sur Canape, 868. 

Romaine Salad, 1064. . 

Pineapple Fritters, 1191. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday^ October 



Breakfast. 



JDinncr. 



Eggs k TAlsacienne, 443. 

Broiled Pompano, 329. 

Breaded Veal Cutlets, Tomato sauce, 563. 

Saratoga Potatoes, xoii. 

Milan Cake, 1228. 



Cuncl) 



eon. 

Spanish^mackerel k la Toulouse, 354. 

Lamb Kidneys k la Colbert, 712. 

Macaroni au Gratin, 955. 

Peach Tarts, 1106. 



^t River Oysters, 298. 

Printanier Gr^nat, 51. 

Thon, 282. ^ Celery, 290. 

Fried Porgies, Tartare sauce, 301, 207. 

Croquettes of Lamb, k la Patti, 679. 

Stewed Carrots, with Cream, 927. 

Ballotin of Squab k I'ltalienne, 8x8. 

Mushrooms on Toast, 9x6. 

Roast Reed-birds, 877. 

Romaine Salad. 1064. 

Apples with Rice kla Czar, 1x73. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday^ October  . 



Breakfast 



Scrambled Eggs & la Chicor^e, 409. 

Codfish Tongues, brown Butter, 349. 

Hashed Lamb k la Polonaise, 700. 

Sorrel, with Gravy, 974. 

Preserved Raspberries, 1346. 



Cuncl)on. 



Red-snapper, Egg sauce, 352, 161. 

Curry of Chicken a I'lndienne, 792. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Green-gage Fie, 1093. 



Dinner. 

Clams, 300. 

Giblets k I'Anglaise, zz. 

Radishes, 292. Olives. 

Salmon, Anchovy Butter, 303, 146. 

Lamb Chops, mnison d'or, 683. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Vension Steak, Londonderry sauce, 880. 

Celery, with Cream, 929. 

Roast Capon, 755. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Omelet C^Iestine, 477. 

Coffee. 1349. 



126 



THE TABLE. 



Thursday, Qctober  . 



Breakfast. 

Poached Eggs on Toast, 404. 

Scallops, with White Wine, 342. 

Minced Beef k la Proven^ale, e;oo. 

Potatoes en Faille, 1014. 

Apples M^ringuees, 1248. 



Cunl)on. 



Oysters a la Baltimore, 388. 

Bee&teak Pie i rAm^ricaine, 4I 

Salad /talienne, 1036. 

Strawberry Tarts, 11 17. 



iBinner. 



Massachusetts Bay Oystere, 298. 

Consomm^ Royale, 107. 

Celery, 290. Sausage, 286. 

Kingfish aux fines Herbes, 331. 

Saddle of Mutton, Poivrade sauce, 667. 

Green Peas k I'Anglaise, 978. 

Croquettes of Sweetbreads, 620. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922 . 

Roast Woodcock, 871, 

Celery Salad, 1042. 

Orange Water-ice, 1280. 

Almond Biscuits, 1235. 

CoflFee, 1349. 



Friday^ October  . 



Cheese Omelet, 469. 

Fried Soft-shelled Crabs, 368. 

Sausage k I'ltalienne, 737. 

Potatoes, Sautees au Beurre, 994. 

Stewed Prunes, 1330, 

Cncl)eon. 

Smelts k la Joinville, 322. 

Stewed Mutton, Portugaise, 658. 

Russian Salad, 1065. 

Allumettes, 1205. 



JUTmner. 



Clams, 300. 

Pot-au-Feu, 54. 

Radishes, 292 Olives. 1 

Bass k la Chambord, 343. 

Tenderloin, Pique a la Sevigne, 520. 

Succotash, 1022. 

Veal Cutlets k la Milanaise, 563. 

Asparagus-tops, Hollandaise, 904. 

Roasted Plovers, 863. 

Barbe de Capucine Salad, 1038, 

Chocolate Pudding, 1146. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday^ October  . 



Srcakfast. 



Fried Eggs, 412. 

Boiled Halibut, sauce Hollandaise, 309, z6o. 

Broiled Deviled Beefsteak, 524. 

Potatoes, Parisienne, 986. 

Stewed Quinces, 1338. 



Ctincl)eon. 



Oysters en Brochette, with Bacon, 385. 

Blanquette of Veal, with Green Peas, 551. 

Spinach aux Crol^tons, 940. 

Omelet au Rhum, 476. 



WXXVMX. 

Small Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Sorrel, with Rice, ^z. 

Lyons Sausage, 286. > Celery.^ago. 

Bluefish a I'lcarienne, 336,' 

Amourettes of Lamb, Tomato sauce, 673. 

String Beans au Blanc, 947. 

Beef-tongue kla Milanaise, 538, 

Oyster-plant a la Poulette, 1019. 

Roast Squabs, 816. . 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Baba, Cream k la Vanille, Z2z8. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



127 



Sunday^ October 



Breakfast. 



Hinncv. 



Green Peas Omelet, 459. 

Broiled White Perch, Anchovy Butter, 

146. 

Hashed Turkey k la Bechamel, 803. 

Broiled Tomatoes, Z025. 

Baked Apples, 1x24. 



Cuncheon. 



Broiled Lobster & la Ravigote. 363. 
Chicken Croquettes a I'Ecarlate, 760. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

"Umbales k la Schultze, 263. 
Peach Pie, 1092. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Consomme Imperial, iii. 

OHves. Radishes, 292. 

StuflFed Deviled Crabs, 370. 

Tenderloin of Beef, Pique i la Bemardi, 523. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Sweetbreads, Larded k la Financiere, 603. 

Green Peas i I'Anglaise, 978. 

Punch k la Franjaise, 1311. 

Roast Woodcock, 871. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Vanilla Ice-cream, 1271. 

Petites Bouchees k la Mme. Astor, 1238. 

Camembert Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday^ October  . 



Breakfast 



Oatmeal and Cream. 

Omelet aux Saucisses, 465. 

Brochette of Lamb, Colbert, 674, 190. 

Saratoga Potatoes, loii. 

Apple Fritters, irgi. 



Cuncl)on. 



Oysters a la Mali, 386. 
BroQed Grouse \a. la Pomeroy, 1390. 

Tomatoes a la Bock, 1026. 
Crme en Mousse au Cura5oa, 1259 



DinuEV. 

Chincoteague Oysters, 298. 

Pur^e Conde, 48. 

Tomatoes, 288. Frizzled Celery, 291. 

Frogs i I'Espagnole, 401. 

Calfs-head en Tortue, 641. 

.Stewed Corn, 963. 

SuprSme of Chicken k la Patti, 789. 

Cardons, with Marrow, 931. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Farina Pudding, 1144. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday, October  . 



Ireakfast. 



Eggs k I'Aurore, 444. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Veal Kidneys, Stewed k la Provengale, 625. 

Lima Beans, with Cream, 952. 

French Pancake, 1186. 



Cuticl)on. 



Soles au Gratin, 319. _ 
Veal Cutlets k la Philadelphia, 565. 
Croquettes of Macaroni, 279. 
Lemon Pie, io86. 



Dinner. 



East River Oysters, 298. 

Gumbo, with Frogs, 23. 

Radishes, 292. Caviare, 281. 

Fried Black-bass, aux fines Herbes, 331. 

Tenderloin, Piqui k la Duchesse, 516. 

Fried Egg-plant, 907. 
Civet of Vension k la Frangabe, 807. 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Broiled Grouse k I'Americaine, 844. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Savarin k I'Anglaise, 1199. 

Coffee, X349. 



128 



THE TABLE. 



Wednesday, October  . 



Breokfost, 



Omelet, with Asparagus-tops, 458. 

Boned Broiled Smelts, Bearnaise, 353. 

Corned Beef Hash k I'Am^ricaine, 529, 

Stewed Carrots and Cream, 927 . 

Preserved Plums, 1343. 



CuncI) 



ton. 

Stuffed Deviled Lobster, 367. 

Squabs k la Chipolata, 821. 

Cauliflower. Vinaigrette, 1040. 

Charlottes Panachees, 1300. 



JPinner. 

Oysters, 298. 

Puree of Partridge k la Destaing, 89. 

Celery, 290. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Broiled Spanish-mackerel, maitre d'hdtel, 329. 

Mutton Chops k la Robinson, 682. 

Potato Croquettes, 997: 

Sweetbreads k la Pompadour, 618, 

Tomatoes k la Bock, 1026. 

Roast Chicken, 755. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Tapioca Pudding, 1141. 

Coffee, X3i)9. 



Thursday^ October 



I5rakfa0t 

Eggs k la Bonne Femme, 432. 

Fried Black-bass, 320. 

Veal Cutlets k ia Philadelphia, 565. 

Fried Potatoes, 993. 

Rice k la Frani,faise, 1180. 

Cuncl)on. 

Oysters k la Poulette, 3S3. 

Lamb Chops k la Signora, 681. 

Sweet 'Potatoes Souffl^es, loio. 

Chicken Salad, 1044, 

Madeleine Printani^re, 1227- 



JDinner. 



Clams, 300. 

Cream of Asparagus, 70. 

Olives. Radishes, 292. 

Fompano, mattre d'h6tel, 329. 

Boiled Turkey k la Baltimore, 799. 

Stewed Lima Beans, 952, 

Filets Mignons aux Gourmets, 508. 

Spinach, with Gravy, 943. 

Roast Canvas-back, Currant Jelly, 874, 1326, 

Celery Salad, 1042, 

Biscuits Tortoni, 1287, 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday^ November 



I8rakfa0t. 

Tomato Omelet, 456, 

Boiled Halibut, Lobster sauce, 309, 158 

Lamb Chops, with Bacon, 647, 754. 

Potatoes, Lyonnaise, 991. 

Stewed Apples, 1332. 

Citncl)on. 

Soffe> Clams k la Merrill, 389. 

Beefeteak Pie k I'Anglaise, 487. 

Lobster Salad, 1061.. 

Lemon Pudding, X157. 



Dinner. 



Oystere, 298. 

Printanier Chasseur, 52. 

Lyons Sausage, 286. Celery, 290. 

Porapano, with Sorrel, 327. 

Brisotm of Veal, Poivrade sauce, 554, 194, 

Oyster-plant, Poulette, 10 19, 

Chicken k la Maryland, 785, 

Artichokes, Barigoul, 896. 

Roast Quails on Toast, 834, 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Strawberry Ice-cream, 1274, 

Lady-fingers, 1231. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



129 



Saturday, November 



Breakfast. 



Eggs k la Duchesse, 449. 

Pig's Feet, Robert sauce, 728. 

Corned Beef Hash k la Zingara, 530. 

Fried Egg-plant. 907. 

Pears and Grapes. 



Cuncl)on. 



SJinncr. 



Halibut Steaks, aux fines Herbes, 310, 331. 

Stewed Lamb, with Flageolets, 707. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Choux II la Creme, 1246. 



Doxie Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Consomme k I'Anglaise, X19. 

Olives. Watercress, 107a. 

Red-snapper a I'Icarienne, 336. 

Beef-tongue a la Napolitaine, 534. 

Lima Beans, 95a. 

Venison Steak, Puree of Chestnuts, 882. 

Potatoes en Surprise, 1005. 

Roast Veal, 585. 

Tomato Salad, 288. 

Rice Pudding, 1143. 

Coffee, 1 349. 



Sunday, November 



Breakfast. 



Eggs k la Paysanne, 433. 
Fresh Mackerel aux fines Herbes, 331. 

Hashed Turkey en Bordure, 805. 

Stewed Lima Beans, with Cream, 952. 

Whipped Cream a la Vanille, 1954. 



CnncJ)on. 



Canape Lorenzo, 391. 
Broiled Squabs au Petit Sale, S17. 

Stewed Carrots, 927. 
Lolter Sixlad k la Plummer, 1062. 
Pie a la Martha Washington, 1105. 



JBmncr. 



Clams, 300. 

Cream of Game, 83, 

Celery, 290. Radishes, 2^2. 

Lobster k la Newburg, 359. 

Sweetbreads k la Beamaise, 6x0. 

Green Peas k la Fran^aise, 977. 

Lamb Chops, Maintcnon, 6S5. 

Cauliflower k I'Holiandaise, 925, 160. 

Punch en Surprise, 1309. 

Roast Partridges, with Watercress, 843. 

Celery, Mayonnaise Salad, 1042. 

Pudding k la U. S. Grant, 1159. 

Neuchatel Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, N<yveniber 



Breakfast. 

Omelet, with Gree^ Peas, 459. 

Broiled Smelts, Tartare sauce, 353, 207. 

Venison Steak, sauce Piquante, 879, 203. 

Mashed Potatoes au Gratin, 998. 

Brioches Fluttes, 1204. 



Slinntr. 



Cttncl) 



|Cin. 

Scallops Brestoise, 392. 

Fricandeau of Veal k la Morjaisienne, 579. 

String-bean Salad, 1068. 

Cranberry Fie, 1104. 

9 



Blue Point Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Lima Beans, 75. 

Olives. Sardines, 383. 

Broiled Frogs, m^tre d'hdtel, 398. 

Sirloin Steak, with Marrow sauce, 493. 

Stuffed Cucumbers, 937. 

Chicken VoJ-au-Vent k la Reine, 812. 

Celery, with Gravy, 928> 

Roast Grouse sur Canape, 852. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Vermicelli Pudding, 1x42. 

Coffee, 1349. 



THE l^ABLE. 



Tuesday, November  . 



!5rakfo0t. 



Eggs au Soleil, 415, 

Codfish ^I'Hollandaise, 352, 160. 

Stewed CalPs Liver k I'Alsacienne, 582. 

Potatoes, maitre d'h6tel, 985. 

Rice k la Condd, 1181. 



Cttncl)on. 



Crabs k la St. Jean 371. 

Broiled Quails on Toast, S35. 

Fried Egg-plant, 907. 

Potato Salad, 1073. 

French Pudding k la Delmonico, 1139 



JDtnnn'. 

Mill Pond Oysters, 298. 

Onion Soup, 130. - 

Frizzled Celery, 291. Tomatoes, 28 

Matelote of Eels, 332. 

Partridge^ with Cabbage, 845. 

Sweetbreads Larded & la Financi&re, 603. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Roast Lamb, 583. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

0/nelet Soufflee, 474. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday^ November 



BrcakfttHt. 

Omelet, Vanderbilt, 471. 

Broiled Sardines on Toast, 403. 

Sausages Gastronome, 740. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Rhein- wine Jelly, 1324. 

iincl)on. 

Soles k la Horly, 321. 

Civet of Venison k la Fran9aise, 887. 

Lamb-tongue Salad, 1056. 

Eclairs k la Vanille, 1245. 



JBtnner. 



Oak Island Oysters, 298. 

Mull^atawney k la Delmonico, 35. . 

Caviare, 281. Radishes, 292. 

Frogs a I'Espagnole, 401. 

Fillet of Hare, sauce Poivrade, 895. 

French Peas. 

Chicken Croquettes k la P^rigueux, 759. 

Stuffed Egg-plant, 909. 

Broiled Red-heads, Currant Jelly, 876, 1326. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057, 

Apple pudding k THelvetienne, 1152. 

Coffee, 1349, 



Thursday, November 



33rakfast. 

E^gs kl'Aurore, 444. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

CalT's-head k la Vinaigrette, 640. 

Hashed Potatoes, widi Cream, 1003. 

Peach Marmalade, 1331. 



CTincl)on, 



JPtnnn". 



Broiled Salmon Steaks, Anchovy Butter, 310, 

146. 

Tripe k la Creole, 545. 

Spaghetti au Gratin, 961. 

Hot Savarin, Z198. 



Clams, 300. 

Chicken k la Richmond, 62. 

Celery, 290, Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Sheep's-head, with fine Herbs, 331. 

Tenderloin of Beef, Pique aux Cepes, 496. 

Succotash, 1022. 

Sweetbreads k la Pompadour, 618. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975*^ 

Roast Qu^ls, with Watercress, 834. 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Pound Cake, Glace, ^193* 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



Friday, November  . 



BrcakfttBt. 

eyelet, Mexicalne, 473. 

Fried Perch, 320. 

Veal Cutlets, Pagasqui, 560. 

Potatoes en Faille, X014, 

Buckwheat Cakes, xiSs* 



CuncI) 



ton. 

Fillet of Sole k la V^nitienne. 338. 

Shoulder of Lamb, Jardiniere, 696. 

Stuffed Lettuce, 953. 

IcedTimbale ofRice, 1175. 



HDinncr. 

Oysters. 298. 
Clam Chowder, 13. 
Radishes, 292. Thon, s8s. 

Boiled Halibut, Shrimp sauce, 309. 178, 
Beef-iongue & la Gendarme, 532. 
Spinach, with CroOtons, 940. 
Chicken, Saut6 with Tarragon, 774. 
. Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 
Roast Woodcock, 871, 
Tomato Salad, 1070. 
Baked Apple Dumplings, 1x22. 
Coffee, X349. 



Saturday^ November  , 



BrtakfoBt 



E^5, with brc^n gutter, 414. 

Fried Smelts, Tomato sauce, 301, 205. 

Minced Veal a la Biscaenne, 576. 

Potatoes, Duchcsse, 1006. 
Stewed Prunes & la Dufour, 1330. 



Cunc^con. 



Red-snapper a I'Hollandaise, 317. 

Gibelotte of Hare, 894. 

Sorrel au Gras, 974. 

Cherry Tarts, xiii. 



Dinnn*. 

Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Giblets, with Rice, X9. 

Celery, 290. Bologna Sausage, 286. 

Broiled Salmon, maltrc d'hdtel, 308. 

Mignons Filets k la B^amaise, 509, 166. 

Succotash. X022. 

Game Croquette, Madeira-wine sauce, 833, 

185. 

Tomatoes a la Bock, X026. 

Roast Quails, 834. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Fritters Souffli^cs k la Vanille, 119a. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday^ November  . 



Breakfast. 

Omelet k la Vanderbilt, 471. 

Ficked-up Codfish, 346. 

Corned Beef Hash au Gratin, 529. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Creme Renvers^e, 1252. 



Cuncl)on, 



Soft Clams k la Merrill, 389. 

Stuffed Pfe's Feet k la Perigueux, 732, 

Lima Beans, 952. 

Xx)bster Salad k la Plummcr, 1062, 

Charlotte Russe, 1261. 



inner. 

East River Oysters, 298. 

Puree of Partridge k la Gentilhomme, 90. 

Radishes, 292. Olives. 

Lobster k la Newbuig, 359. 

Epigrammcs of Lamb, Macedoine, 689. 

Supreme of Chicken k la Patti, 789. 

Green Peas k I'Anglaise, 978. 

Kirsch Punch, X305. 

Canvas-back Ducks, 874. 

Lettuce Salad, X058. 

Plum Pudding, 1163. 

English Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



132 



THE TABLE. 



Monday, November  . 



33reakfast. . 

Scrambled Eggs, with Asparagus-tops, 406. 

Broiled Bluefish, 329. 

Hashed Lamb & la Polonaise, 700. 

Potatoes, Juliemie, 1013. 

Rice k rAirolo, 1171. 

Cunci)con, 

Oysters i la Mali, 386. . 

Chops, Soyer, 647, 

Potatoes, Duchesse, 1006. 

Carrots, with Cream, 927. 

Fear Pie, 1084. 



Dinner. 



Clams, 300. I 
Croftte-au-Pot, 11. 
Celery, 290. Tomatoes, 

Smelts k la Toulouse, 354. 
Civet of Rabbit i la Parisienne, 888. 
Stuffed Peppers, 975. 
Ccoustade of Chicken k la Dreux, 762, 
Red-Jieads and Hominy, 876, X035, 
Celery Salad, 1042. 
Baba au Mad^re, X2X7. 
Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday^ November  . 



Breakfast. 

Saus^e Omelet, 465. 

Bass k la maitre d'h&tel, 326. 

Mutton Chops, Breaded, 643, 

Saratoga Potatoes, loii. 

Com Fritters, 965. 

Citncljeon. 

Broiled Outers' en Brochette au Petit Sal^, 385. 

Broiled Quails on Toast, 833- 

Cauliflower Salad, 1040. 

Rice and Cream a la Croce, 1296. 



JBinntr. 



OjTsters, 298. 

Bisque of Crabs, 9. 

Sardines, 283. Radish^, 292. 

Fresh Mackerel aux fines Herbes, 331. 

Lamb Steak k FAmericaine, 718. 

Celery k la Moelle de Boeuf, 930. 

Chicken, Saute k la Marengo, 771. 

Peas and Bacon, 981. 

Grouse sur Canape, 852. 

' Chicory Salad, 1046. 

Diplomatic Pudding, 1x29. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday^ Novembver  . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs k la Bonne Femme, 432. 

Hambinrg Steak, Russian <!auce, ,526. 

Broiled Bacon, 754. 

Stewed Potatoes, 995. 

Baked Apples, 1124. 



Cunel) 



[)eon. 

Crawfish a la Bordelaise, 360. 

Salmi of Ducks, with Olives, 827. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Tomato Salad, 1070. 

French Pancake, with Jelly, 1187. 



Dinner. 

Small Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Consomm^, Italian Paste, 103. 

Celery, 290. Caviare, 281. 

Codfish Tongues, black Butter, 349. 

Broiled Sirloin Steak k la Duchesse, 494. 

1. Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 

Vol-au-Vent, Financifere, 810. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Roast Woodcock, 871 . 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Caramel Pudding, 1x66. , 

Coffee, i349> 



MENUS. 



13; 



Thursday, November 



Brwkfast. 



Cheese Omelet. 469. 

Fried White Perch, Tartare sauce, 301 , 207. 

Bee&teak, with Watercress, 524. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Pippin Apples and Grapes. 

Cttncl)eon. 

Bluefish. Egg sauce, 352, i6x. 

Hashed Mutton & la Zingara, 652. 

Com, Stewed with Butter, 96^. 

Tirabales a la Schultze, 263. 

I^emon Cream Pie, Meringue, 1102. 



JD'mnev. 



Linn Haven Oysters, 298. 

Tomatoes and Sago, 59. 

Mortadella, 287. Radishes, 292. 

Crabs, St. Laurent, 372. 

Braised Beef, Flamande) 482. 

Pillau of Chicken & la Creole, 783. 

' Artichokes, Flcrentine, 903. 

Roast Reed-birds, 877. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Sweet Omelet, 475. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday^ November  . 



Breakfast. 

Scrambled Eggs, with Tomatoes, 406. 

Fillet of Soles k la Horly, 321. 

Smoked Beef, with Cream, 486. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Brioche, 1 201. 

Cnncl)con. 

Frost Fish a la Toulouse, 354, 

Stewed Veal k la Marengo, 624. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993, 

Peach Tarts, iro6. 



inner. 

Clams, 300. 

Cream of Artichokes, 72. 

Radishes, 292. Then, 282 

Broiled Haddock, maitre d'hfttel, 3x0. 

Saddle of Venison, Currant-jelly sauce, 878. 

Sorrel au Gras, 974. 

Mutton Chops k la Robinson, 682. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. 

Roast Partridge, 843, 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

English Pudding, 1137. 

Coffee, X349. 



Saturday^ November  , 



Breakfast. 



inner. 



Hominy, with Cream, 1034. 

Ham Omelet, 462. 

Stewed Chicken Livers k Tltalienne, 770. 

Mashed Potatoes, 998. 

Preserved Peaches, 1340. 



tincl) 



leon. 

Oyster Crabs k la Poulette, 374. 

Chicken Croquettes k la Reine, 758. 

Succotash, I022. 

Mac^doine Salad, 1063. 

Stewed Prunes a la General Dufour, isaot 



Clams, 300. 

Busecca, 7. 

Tomatoes, 288. Mortadella, 287. 

Pompano, with fine Herbs, 331. 

Veal Chops, St. Cloud, 561. 

Tomatoes k la Bock, 1026. 

Breast of Turkey, Oyster sauce, 806, 173. 

Spinach, with Eggs, 940. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Watercress Salad, 1073. 

Biscuits Glacis, 1286. 

Coffee, 1349. 



134 



THE TABLE. 



Sunday, November 



Brtakfast, 

Scrambled E^s, with Truffles, 407. 

Broiled Salt Mackerel, 329. 

Sausages k ritalienne, 737. 

Fried Potatoes, 993. 

Whipped Cream au Maraschino, 1257. 



Cttncl)eon. 

Lobster en Brochette, 361, 
Broiled Squabs, with Bacon., 817., 
Spaghetti au Gratin, 961. 
Rhubarb Tarts, 1x12. * 



SDiuner. 



Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Asparagus, 70. 

Celery, 290. Olives. 

Terrapin k la Maryland, 397. 

Broiled Tenderloin k la Nivefnaise, 505. , 

Broiled 'Tomatoes, 1025. 

Sweetbreads Larded k la Beamaise, 6zo. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Romaine Punch, 1304. 

Roast Canvas - back Ducks, Currant Jelly, 

874, 1326. 

Celery Salad, 1042. 

Tutti-frutti, 1293. 

Meringues a la Ch. C. Delmonico, 1249. 

Pont I'Ev^que Cheese, 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, November  .  

Buakfast. JDtnn^r, 



Omelet, with Asparagus-tops, 458, 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Hashed Turkey en Bordure, 805. 

Beet-roots k la CrSme, 912. 

Wheat Cakes, 1x84. 

Cuncljeon. 

Broiled Fresh Mackerel, Anchovy Butter, 

329, 146. 

Veal Cutlets k la Marechale, 562. 

Potatoes, Chkteau, 1009. 

Anchovy Salad, 1037. 

Vemiicelli Pudding, 1x42. 



Prince's Bay Oysters, 298; 

Puree of Cr^cy, 47.  

Sardines, 283. Radishes, 292. 

Stuffed Deviled Lobster, 367. 

CaU's-head en Tortue, 641, 

String Beans, 948. 

Tenderloin, Piqu^ k la Portugaise, 517. 

Mashed Potatoes, 9^8. 

Roast English Snipe, with Watercress, $68. 

Tomato, Mayonnaise Salad, 1071. 

Pineapple Pie, 1087. 

Coffee, X349> 



Tuesday^ November 



Brfakfast, 



Poached Eggs on Toast, 404. 

Fried Smelts, Tomato sauce, 301, 205. 

Lamb Steak k FAm^ricaine, 718. 

Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. 

Small Brioches, 1202. 



Ctincl)on. 

Sheep's-head k la Creole, 339. 

Bee&teak Fie k I'Anglaise, 487. 

Macaroni au Gratin, 955. 

Plum Fie, X094. 



JUmncr. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Puree Jackson, 43. 

Olives. Mortadelta, 287. 

Bass en Matelote, 332. 

Broiled Tenderloin k la Beariiaise, 492. 

Potatoes k la Windsor, xoo8. 

Supreme of Partridge a la Godard, 851. 

French Peas. 

Roast Lamb, Mint sauce. 585, 169. 

Celery Salad, X042. 

Kiimmel Jelly, 1323. 

Sweet Almond MacaroonS, x2io. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



135 



Wednksday^ November  . 



Breakfaat. 

Omelet, with fine Herbs, 451. 

Fried Blackfish, 301. 

Broiled Porterhouse Steak, 534. 

Sorrel aux CrolXtons. 974. 

Preserved Pears. 1341. 



Cttncl)on. 



Oysters k la Villeroi, 381. 

Brochette of Lamb, with Bacon, 674, 754. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Beef Salad, 1039. 

Pumpkin Pie, 1099. 



lBtnnr. 



Boxie Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Plain Consomme, xoo. 

Thoi^, 282. Radishes, 293. 

Halibut, with black Butter, 309, 159. 

Chicken Croquettes, with Mushrooms, 276. 

Venison Steak, Londonderry sauce, 880. 

Stuffed Cucumbers, 937. 

Roast Goose, Stuffed with Chestnuts, 808. 

Chicory Salad, X045. 

Charlotte au Caf*^, 12624 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday^ November  . 



Breakfast. 



^gs k la Tripe, 419. 

Broiled Deviled Soft-shelled Crabs, 369. 

Mutton Kidneys, Saut^ au Mad6re, 662. 

Potatoes k la Rice, 1007. 

Rice k la Fran9aise, x 180. 



Cnntl)con. 



Stewed Tripe a la Lyonnaise, 548. 

BroOed Grouse on Toast, with Bacon. 854. 

Spaghetti au Gratin, 961. 

Peach Marmalade, 1331. 



^Dinner. 

Blue Point Oysters, 298. 

Gumho, vrith Frogs, 23. 

Celery, 290. Sardines, 283. 

Sole k la Joinville, 322. 

Sweetbreads & la Duxelle, 608. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Lamb Chops, maison d'or, 683. 

String Beans, 948. 

Roast Red-heads, 876, 

Escarole Salad, 1055, 

Orange Puddmgp 1158. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday, November 



Breakfaat. 

Sardme Omelet, 468. 

Broiled Codfish i I'HoUandaise, 329, 160. 

Tripe i la Lyonnaise, 548. 

Broiled Sweet Potatoes, 983. 

Jamaica-rum Jelly, 1320. 



JDinner. 



Cnncl) 



l)eon. 

Oyster Patties, 387. 

Porterhouse Steak, with Watercress, 524. 

Hashed Potatoes au Gratin, 1004. 

Lobster Salad, io6x. 

Iced Timbale of Rice, 1175. 



Clams, 300. 

Cream of Barley, 77. 

Radishes, 292. Mortadella, 287. 

Haddock, Cream sauce, 352, 181. 

Supreme of Partridge k la Rothschild, 790. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. 

Ballotin of Lamb, with Peas, 675. 

Roast Loin of Venison, Currant -jelly sauce, 

878. 

Lettuce Salad, 1059. 

Omelet Celestine, 477. 

Coffee, 1349. 



136 



THE TASLE. 



Saturday, November ^-. 



BrcakfaBt. 



E^gs a la Post, 1366'. 

Fresh Mackerel, maitre d'hdtel, 329. 

Broiled Lamb Fries k la Diable, 672. 

Fritters Soufflees, 1192. 



Ctincl)on. 



Picked-up Codfish,, 346. 
Mignons Filets kla Brown^ ^S^- 

Stuffed Lettuce, 953. 
Boiled Apple Dumplings, 1T27. 



Slinnn'; 



Prince's Bay Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Suedoise, 122. 

Anchovies, 284. Celery, 290. 

Red-snapper, Cream sauce, 352, r8i. 

Grenadins of Veal k 1' Africaine, 389. 

Stewed Com, 964. 

Chicken, Saut6 kla Parmentier, 773. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

Roast 'SquabSij 816. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Home-made Cake, 1220. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sundayy November 



' Omelet Raspail, 467.- 

Broiled Blueiish, maitre d'h6tel, 329. 

Venison Steak, Currant Jelly,. 884. 

Fried Potatoesi 993. 

Cr^me en Mousse au' Mars^chino, 1257. 



Ctincljcon, 



Fompano, with White Wine, 342, 

Broiled Chicken, with Bacon, 756. 

Salad k I'Jtalienne, 1036. 

Charlotte Russe, 1261. 



Dinner. 



Massachusetts Bay Oysters, 298. 

Tomato k I'Andalouse, 58, 

Lyons Sausage, 286. Radishes, 292. 

Lobster k la Newburg, 359. 

Sweetbreads, Soubise, 606. 

Artichoke-bottoms, Florentine, 907. 

Civet t>f Rabbit k la Pari&ienne, 888. 

String Beans, 948. 

Punch a la Lorenzo Delmonio, 1303. 

Canvas-'back Ducks, Currant Jelly, 874, 1326. 

Celery, Mayonnaise Salad, 1042. 

Cabinet Pudding k la Sadi-Carnot, Z164. 

GorgonzoUa Cheese. 

' Coffee, 1349. 



Monday^ November  . 



Breakfast. 

E^gs an Miroir, 425. 

Porgies k Vltalienne, 337. 

Lamb Chops, with Bacon, 647, 754. 

Potatoes, Duchesse, xoo6. 

Rice au Lait d'Amandes, 1170. 



Cunl)on. 



Stuffed, Deviled Crabs, 370. 

Hashed Chicken k la Polonaise, 803. 

Lobster Salad k la Flummer, 1062. 

Cherry Pie, 1098. 



UMnner. 



Mill Pond Oysters, 298. 

Puree Bretonne, 45. 

Celery, 290. Olives. 

Broiled Salmon Tails, 30S. 

Double Porterhpuse Steak, with Marrow, 

52Sf 244. 

Potatoes k la Parisienne, 9B6.' 

Chicken, Saut6 k la Bohemienne, 778. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Roast Partridge, 843, ' 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Indian Pudding, Z145. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



137 



Tuesday, November  . 



Vcikfast. 

g^ k la Bennett, 447. 

Oysters Ji la Arthur Sullivan, 1367. 

Hashed Lamb k ta Polonaise, 700. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Brioches Fluttes, 1204. 

ttncl)on. 

Scallops, St. Jean, 371. 

Sausages, Gastronome, 740. 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Crme Renversee, 1253. 



IDmncr. 



Clams, 300. 

Consomme Tapioca, io4. 

Tomatoes, z88. Celery, 290. 

Sheep's-head k la Creole, 339. 

Sweetbreads, Piques h la Financi^re, 603. 

Fillet of Venison, Currant-jelly sauce, 884. 

Spinach, with Gravy, 943. 

Roast Lamb, 585. 

Celery Sglad, X041. 

Meringues Panach^es, X302. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday, November 



Breakfast. 



iBinncv, 



P^in Omelet, 450. 

Broiled Haddock, Anchovy Butter, 310, 146. 

Pig's Feet k la Boston, 730. 

Stewed Potatoes, 995. 
Waffles, with Sugar, Z196. 



Ctincl)con. ' 



Broiled Smelts, B^amaise sauce, 353. 

Beefsteak Pie k rAm^ricaine, 488.. 

Macaroni au Gratin, 955. 

Mille>feu]lles, 1223, 



Small Rockaway Oysters, 298. 
Cream of Game, 83. 
Radishes, 288. OHves. 

Bass k la Chambord, 343. 
, ' Escalops of Veal k I'ltalienne, 572. 
\ Corn, Sautd with Butter, 964. 

Squabs en Crapaudine, 819. 
Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023.  
Roast Grouse sur Canap^, 852. 
Chicory Salad, 1045. 
Fritters Souffldes k la Vanille, 1x92. 
Coffee, 1349. 



138 



THE TABLE. 



THANKSQIVING DAY. 
Thursday, November  . 

Eggs ^ la Chipolata, 442. 

Blackfish au -Gradiif 356. 

Calf s-head & la (favour, 638. 

Stewed Oyster-plant, zoi8. 
Preserved Green -gages, 1344. 

Cttnct)eon. 

Fried Frogs, sauce Tartare, 400, 207. 

Minced Beef k la Grecque, 500, 237. 

Sweet Potatoes, Soufflees, loio. 

Feu* Tarte, 1109. 

Shrewsbury Oysters, 298. * 

Giblet k I'Ecossaise, 20. 

Moftadella, 2S7. Celery, 29a 

Codfish, Egg sauce, 352, 161.  

Lamb Chops a la Robinson, 682. 

Croquettes of Macaroni. 279. 

Curry of Chicken k I'Espagnole, 793. 

Mushrooms on Toast, 916. 

Punch en Surprise, 1309, 

Roast Turkey, Cranberry sauce, 800, 1329., 

Celery Salad, X042. 

Mince Pie, 1082. 

Strachino Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



139 



Friday, November  . 



Breakfast. 



Crab Omelet/ 455. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Broiled Sheep's-feet, Tartare sauce, 654, 207. 

Mashed Potatoes, 998. 

Rice k la Conde, 1x81. 

unct]eon. 

Soft Clams k la Merrill, 389. 
Chicken Pot-pie. 757. 
Broiled E^-plant, 908. 
French Pancake, 1x86. 



inner. 

Kirtig's Oysters, 998. 

Bouille>k-Baisse, z. 

Anchovies, 284. Radishes, 292. 

Red>snapper, with Cream 352, 181. 

Breast of Turkey k la Robinson, 807. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 

Sweetbreads k la Partsienne, 6x3. 

French Peas. 

Roast Plovers, 865. 

Lettuce Salad, 1058. 

Apricot Pudding kla Richeiieuj 1151. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday^ November 



Breakfast. 

^;g5 a la fioui^ignonne, 411. 

Picked-up Codfish, 346. 

Minced Beef k la Proven9ale, 500. 

Saratogo Potatoes, loii. 

Brioche, I20I. 

Ctincl)on. . 

Lobster en Chevreuse, 362. 
Comed Beef and Cabbage, 490. 
Russian Salad, 1065. 
Vanilla Eclairs, 1245. 



Dinner. 



Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Frogs k I'Espagnole, 25. 

Tomatoes, 288. Olives. 

Canap^ Lorenzo, 391. 

Suckling Pig, Apple sauce, 720. 

Celery k la Bonne Femme, 928. 

Chicken, Saute with Tarragon, 774. 

Stuffed Peppers, 975. 

Woodcock sur Canap6, 871. 

Celery , Mayonnaise Salad, 1042. 

Omelet au Rhum, 476. 

Coffee, Z349. 



Sunday^ December  . 



Breakfast. 



Eggs k la Turque, 439. 

Boned, Broiled Smelts k la B^amaise, 353. 

Hashed Lamb k la Zhigara, 652. 

Turnips, with Gravy, 967. 

Stewed Primes, 1330. 



Cnncl)on. 



Terrapin i la Baltimore, 396. 

Broiled Grouse k la Pomeroy, 1390. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Timbales & TEcossaise, 261. 
Creme en Mousse au Cognac, 1258. 



jDDtnner. 

Oysters, 298. 

Sorrel, with Asparagus-tops, 41. 

Celery, 290. Radishes, 292^ 

Boiled Halibut, sauce Hollandaise, 309, 160. 

Tenderloin, Piqud k la Provenjale, 518. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. , 

Veal Cutlets k la Marechale, 562. 

Spinach k I'Anglaise, 940, 

Oranges Glac^es k la Geo. Renauldt, 1297. 

Roast Quails, 834. 

I^ettuce Salad, X057. 

St. Honors a la Rose Delmonico, 1212. 

Swiss Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



I40 



THE TABLE. 



Monday, December  . 



SreokfoBt. 

Kidney Omelet, 463. 

Broiled Ham, 753. 

Tripe k la Creole, 545. 

Potatoes k la Hanna, 1012. 

Cream Renversee, 1252. 

Cttncl)on. 

Bass, Ravigote sauce, 352, 147. 

Breaded Mutton Chops, Tomato sauce, 643, 

205. 

Fried Sweet Fotatoes, 993. 

Marcella>wine Jelly & la Castellar, 1325. 



Wxnntx. 



Claii;is, 300. 

Faysanne, 53. 

Lyons Sausage, 286. Watercress, 1072. 

Blackfish & la maitre d'hdtel, 329. 

Fried Chicken, Cream sauce, 301, 181. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Breast of Lamb a la Jardinifere, 702. 

Macaroni & I'ltalienne, 956. 

Roast Teal Ducks, with Hominy, 859, 1035. 

Doucette Salad, X052. 

Rum Cake, 1229. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday^ December  . 



30rakfa0t. 



Wvmtx. 



Eggs en Panade, 436. 

Codfish, Hollandaise sauce, 352, 160. 

Veal Cutlets 4 la Philadelphia, 563^ 

Broiled Sweet Potatoes, 983. 

Buckwheat Cakes, 1183. 

Cuncl)on. 

Crabs, St. Laurent, 372. 

Beef-tongue, sauce Fiquante, 533. 

Lima Beans, 9^2. 

Japanese Salad, 1075. 

Strawberry Tarts, 1x17, 



Blue Point Oysters, 298. 

Mikado, 32. 

Radishes, 292. . Caviare, 281, 

Red-snapper a la Bordelaise, 341. 

Chicken, Saut^ k la Marengo, 771. 

Com, Stewed with Butter, 964, 

Coquilles of Sweetbreads k la Dreiix, 621. 

Brussels Sprouts, 9^2. 

Roast Plover and Watercress, 865. 

Barbe de Capucine Salad, 1038. 

Apple Fritters, 1191. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Wednesday^ December  , 



Breakfast. 



Omelet, with fine Herbs, 451I 

Fried Scallops, Tomato sauce, 301, 205. 

Lamb Steak, with Bacon, 716, 754. 

Potatoes, maitre d'hdtel, 985. 

Bnoche Conde, 1203. 



Cuiict)on. 



Fried Porgies, Egg sauce, 320, 161. 

Tendron of Veal, Morlaisienne, 635. 

Risotto a la Milanaise, 10x7. 

Charlotte Russe, 1261. . 



iUinncr, 

Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Chicken k la Piemontaise, 63. 

Lyons Sausage, 286, Olives. 

Smelts & la Toulouse, 354. 

Cromesquis of Chicken k la Reine, 765. 

Stuffed Onions, 970. 

Tenderloin, Pjqu6 h la Portugaise, 517. 

Cardons. with Marrow, 931. 

Roast Grouse, with Watercress, 852. 

Celery Salad, 1042. 
Peach Pudding a la Richelieu, X150. 
Coffee, 1349. * 



MENUS. 



141 



Thursday, December 



, Breakfast. 

Eggs k la Van ierbilt, 42c. 

Haddock, Cream sauce, 352, 181. , 

Broiled Pig's Feet i la Boston, 730, 

Saratoga Potatoes, loii. 

German Pancake, ii83. 



uncl)on. 

Stuffed Deviled Lobster, 367. 

Vol-au-Vent, Finauci^re, 810. 

Lamb-toi^ue Salad, 1056. 

Apple Cake> xsii. 



SHrinn'. 

Clams, 300. 

Cream of Lettuce, 87. 

Sardines, 283, Celery, 290. 

Oysters en Petites Caisses, 275. 

Sweetbreads k la Duxclle, 608. 

Cauliflower, Hollondaisc, 923, i6a. 

Squabs en Crapaudie, 819. 

Stuffed Cucumbers, 937. 

Roast Canvas - back Ducks, Currant Jelly, 

874, 1326. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

(Vanilla Ice-cream, 1271, 

Biscuits k la Livomdise, 1233. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday^ December  . 



33rakfast, 

Oyster Omelet, 452. 

Broiled Salt Mackerel, 329. 

Lamb Fries, Tomato sauce, 673. 

Fried Potatoes, 993. 

Preserved Raspberries, 1346. 



Cuncl) 



eon. . 

Pompano, with fine Herbs, 331. 

Stewed Mutton, with Oyster-j^ant, 703, 

Potatoes k rHolland^se, 999. 

Apple Meringue Pie, 1103. 



Wxxmtx. 

East River Oysters, 298. 

Consomm^ au Spaghetd, 103. 

Radishes, 292. Celery, 290, 

Perch au Gratin, 356. 

Tenderloin, Fiqu^ kla Duchesse, 516. 

CSpes k la Bordelaise, 913. 

Lamb Chops k la Clichy, 684. 

French Peas. 

Partridge, Piqu^ sur Canap6, 843. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Plum Pudding, 1 163. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday^ December  . 



Brcakfaat. 

Barley and Cream. 

Eggs k la Chipolata, 442. 

Mutton Chops, Breaded, 643. 

Lima Beans, with Cream. 952. 

Malaga Grapes. 

Cttncl)cin. 

Stuffed Oysters k la Mali, 386, 

Breast of Veal k la Milanaise, 596. 

Macedoine Salad, 1063. 

Mince Pie, Z082. 



inner. 

Little Neck Clams, 300. 

Pur^e of Partridge k la Dcstaing, 89. 

Tomatoes, 292. Olives, 

Boiled Codfish, Oyster sauce, 352. 

Salmi of Pigeons k la Moderne, 870. 

Spinach au Gras, 943. 

Fillet of Venison, Port-wine sauce, 8gi, 

Succotash, 1022. 

Roast Turkey, 800. 

Lettuce Salad, 1058. 

Almond Cake, Glac^, 1208. 

Coffee, 1349- 



142 



THE TABLE. 



Sunday., December  . 



Swakfaat. 



Spanish Omelet, 472. 

Fried Smelts, Tarlare sauce, 301, 207. 

Porterhouse Steak, 524. 

Stewed Potatoes, 995. 

Creme en Mousse au Caf^ i253> 



Cttnl)on. 



Soft Clams a la Merrill, 3S9. 

Breast of Turkey a la Robinson, 807. 

Lobster Salad a la Plummer, 1062. 

Pie; a la Martha Washington. 1105. 



Dinner. 



Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Celery, 71. 

Radishes, 292. Mortadella, 287. 

Sheep's-head, maitre d'hdtel, 329. 

Cucumber Salad, 289. 

Chartreuse of Partridge, 849. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 1023. 

Sweetbreads k la Montglas, 6x5. 

String Beans, 948. 

Punch a la Cardinal, 1306. 

Saddle of Venison, with Currant Jelly, 878. 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Neapolitan Ice-cream, 2292. 

Pedtes Meringues k la Ch, C. Delmonico, 1249. 

' Camembert Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, December 



Urcakfast. 



Wvc^tx, 



Poached Eggs on Anchovy Toast, 404, 280. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Beef-tongue, Piquante sauce, 533. 

Mashed Potatoes au Gratin, 998. 

Rice and Cream a la Croce, 1296. 



Ctincl)eon. 



Oyster Patties, 387. 

Salmi of Ducklings a 1' Amdricaine, 826. 

Sweet Potatoes Souffl^es, loio. 

Cocoanut Pie, iioi. 



Linn Haven Oysters, 298. 

Consomm^, Printanier Royale, 124. 

Olives. Watercress, 1072. 

Bass aux fines HerUes, 331. 

Civet of Rabbit k la Frangaise, 887. 

Artichokes, Florentine, 903. 

Lamb Chops, maison d'or, 683. 

Asparagus-tops a la Bechamel, 904, X54. 

Roast Chicken, with Gravy, 755. 

Doucctte Sal:^d, 1054. 

Baked Apple Dumplings, 1192. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday, December 



SSrcakfast. 

Omelet, with Cheese, 469. 

Cod's Tongues a la Poulette, 351 . 

Chicken Livers Sautds au Mad^re, 707. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Preserved Egg-plums, 1343. 



Cuncl) 



eon. 

Haddock, with White Wine, 342, 

Veal Cutlets k la Milanaise, 563. 

Crab Salad, 1047. 

Sdvarin k I'Anglaise, X199. 



iPitiner. 



Shrewsbury Oysters, 298. 

Clear Green Turtle, 18. 

Radishes, 29a. Thon, 282. 

Broiled Deviled Lobster, 364. 

Calf's-head k la Vinaigrette, 640. 

Spinach k la Vieille Mode, 941. 

Supreme of Partridge k la Richelieu, 858. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922, 

Red-head Ducks, with Hominy, 876, 1035. 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Pudding a la Porfirio Diaz, 1135. 

Coffeei i349ir 



MENUS. 



143 



Wednesday, December 



Brcakfaat. 



Scrambled I^gs, with Mushrooms, 405. 

, Oysters en Brochette au Petit Sale, 385. 

Mutton Hash au Gratin, 653. 

Stewed Com, 964. 

French Pancake, 1186. 



Cncl)con. 



Matelote of els> 339. 

Curry of Chicken & I'lndienne, 792. 

Cauliflower, with Butter, 925. 

Omelet Souffiee, 474, 



HDinnev. 



Clams, 300. 

Puree Parmentier, 44. 

Watercress, 1072. Mortadella, 1087. 

Frogs k I'Espagnole, 401. 

Broiled Tenderloin k la Trianon, 507. 

French Peas, 

Sweetbreads k la Duxelle, 608. 

Lima Beans. 952. 

Roast Grouse sur Canape, 852. 

Doucette and Bc::t-root Salad, X053. 

Bread Pudding, 1132. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday^ December 



Breakfast. 

Omelet, wWi Peas, 459. 

Broiled Sardines on Toast, 403. 

BroUed Venison Steak, Currant Jelly, 884. 

Potatoes, Hollandaise, 999. 

Stewed Prunes k la Dufour, 1330. 



SJmncr. 



uncl)Oit. 



Flounders, maitre d'hOtel, 329. 

Beefeteak Pie \ TAmericaine, 488. 

Stuffed Cabbage, 919, 

Green-gage Pie, 1093. 



Doxie Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Imperial, in. 

Olives. Celery, 290. 

Red-snapper a I'lcarienne, 336. 

Croquettes of Lamb, Beamaise sauce, 679, 

166. 

Turban of Chicken k la Cleveland, 791. 

Peas, with Cream, 980. 

Foies-Gras en Bellevue. 

Woodcock sur Canape, 871. 

Celery, 104 1. 

Apple Charlotte, 1x67. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday^ December  . 



Breakfast. 

Lobster Omelet, 454. 

Boiled Codfish, Hollandaise sauce, 352, 160. 

Br jiled Calf's Liver and Bacon, 584. 

Fried Egg-plant, 907. 

Brioches Fluttes, 1204. 

Ctincl)con. 

Oysters k la Baltimore, 388. 

Sausages a I'Anglaise, 736. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes, 993. 

Custard Pie, iioo. 



inner. 



Clams, 300. 

Chicken a la Turque, 69. 

Radishes, 292. Lyons Sausage, 286. 

Matelote of Eels, 332. 

Ballotin of Squab a ITtalienne, 818. 

Stuffed Egg-plant, 909. 

Tenderloin, Marinated, Russian sauce, 511. 

String Beans, 948. 

Roast Veal, 585. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Sago Pudding, 1140. 

Coffee, 1349, 



144 



THE TABLE. 



Saturday., December  :. 



Brcokfast. 

Hominy and Cream, 1034. 

Ham and Eggs, 412, 753. 

Broiled Deviled Mutton Kidneys, 7x5. 

Fried Potatoes, 993. 

Baked Apples, 1124. 

Cuncljeon. 

' Mussels a la Mariniere, 378. 
Garnished Sourkrout, 924. 

Beef Salad, 1039, 
Jamaica-rum Jelly, 1320. 
, Gingerbread, 12x3. 



Dinner. 



Cherry-stone Oysters, 398. 

Menestra, 36. 

Olives. Tomatoes, 288. 

Lobster Croquettes, sauce Aurore, 365, 182. 

Mignons Filets, Bohemienne, 513. 

Macaroni k I'ltalienne, 956. 

Chicken Vol-au-Vent, with Mushrooms, 812, 

French Peas. 

Roast Quails, 834. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Baba au Mad^re, 1217. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday^ December  . 



jBreakfaHt. 



Omelet Raspail, 467. 

Halibut Steaks, maltre d'h6tel, 310. 

Minced Beef kl'Ecarlate, 500, 247. 

Sweet Potatoes, Hollandaise, 999. 

Apricot Preserves, 1340. 



Cnncl)on. 



Lobster a la Newburg, 359, 

Broiled Chicken, with Bacon, 756. 

'Potatoes, Julienne, 1013. 

Timbales k la Schultze, 263. 

Apple Meringue Pie, 1103. 



S) inner. 



Blue Point Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Duchesse, 125, 

Celery, 290. Radishes, 292. 

Fillet of Sole au Gradn, 319. 

Coqutlles of Chicken k I'Anglaise, 271. 

Tomatoes k la Bock, 1026. 

Tenderloin, Pique k la Parisienne, 516, 495. 

Beans Panachees, 950. 

Punch a la Lalla Rooldi, 130S. 

Roast Partridges, with Watercress, 843. 

Leltiice Salad, 1057. 

5t.'Honor^ k la Rose Delmonico, X2i,2. 

Roquefort Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday, December  . 



jBrcakfast. 

Eggs k la Bonne Femme, 432. 

Fried Frost-fish, 301. 

Mutton Chops, sauce Colbert, 647, 190. 

Potatoes, Duchesse, 1006. 

Whipped Cream a la VaniUe, X254, 



Cuncl)on. 



Stuffed Deviled Crabs, 370. 

Minced Veal k la Biscaenne, 576. 

Sorrel au Gras, 974. 

Rhubarb Tarts, xiis. 



SItnner. 



Parker Bay Oysters, 298. 

Jardiniere, 28. 

Olives. Mortadella, 287. 

Red-snapper a la Venitienne, 338. 

Sweetbreads au Salpicon, 605, 

Stuffed Lettuce, 953. 

Chicken k la Maryland, 785. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Roast Beef, 527. 

Watercress Salad, 1072. 

Raspberry Water-ice, 1281, 

Fancy Almond Cakes, 1239. 

 Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



H5 



Tuesday, December  . 



Bveakfost. 

09.tmeai and Creatn^. 

Sausage Omelet j 465. 

Hambui^ Steak, Russian sauce, 526. 

Potatoes, WindsoTt 1008. 

Sfo^l Brioches, 1202. 

unc^on. 

Oyiiters k la Pompadour, 384, 

Stewed Veal, Marengo, 624. 

Sw.eet Pota,toes, Souffiees, loro. 

Pumpkin Pie, 109^. 



inner. 



Doxte Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Mock Turtle, 17. 

Radices, 292. Then, 282. 

Smelts, Beamaise, 353. 

Saddle of Venison, Port Wiiie sauce, 878, 891. 

Pur^e cf Chestnuts, 131. 

Sweetbreads, with Asparagus-tops, 607. 

Lima Beans, 952. 

Roast Ducklings, 824. 

Celery Salad, 1042. 

Pudding a la U. S. Grant, 1x59. 

Coffee. Z349. 



Wednesday^ December 



35rakfa0t. 

E^gs au Soleil, 415. 

Fried Yellow Perch, 301. 

Pig's Feet a la St. Hubert, 727. 

Potato Croquettes, 997. 

Apples and Rice, 1169. 



Cuncljeon. 

Black Bass, with White Wine, 342. 
Sirloin Steak a la Bordelaise, 491. 
Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 
Plum Pie, 1094. 



Wmntx. 

Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Spaghetti, with Tomatoes, 56. 

Celery, 290, Caviare, 281. 

Broiled Pompano, mattre d'hOtel, 329. 

Cucumber salad, 289. 

Hashed Turkey & la Creme, 804. 

Okras, Sautes a la Creole, 1031. 

Lamb' Chops k la Mass^na, 687. 

French Peas, with Lettuce, 977. 

Roast Grouse, with Watercress, 852. 

Chicory au>Chap6n-saIad, 1046. 

Meringues at'Helv^tienne, 1251. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Thursday^ December 



Brcakfaat. 

E^gs k la Paysanne, 433. 

Tripe kla Lyonnaise, 548. 

Mignons Filets a la Provengale, 509, 5x8, 

Hashed Pota.toes au Gratin, 1004. 

WheatCalfes, 1184. 



Dinner. 



Cttnrl)eon. 



Lobster Croquette a la Victoria, 365, 208. 

Stewed Beef k la Dufour, 541. 

Timbales Lagard^rc, 809. 

Boiled Apricot Dumplings, 1 126. 

10 



Sound Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Chicken, 82. 

Radishes, 292. Bologna Sausage, 286. 

Frogs a la Poulette, 399. 

Pillau of Chicken k la Turque, 78a. 

Stewed Com, 963. 

Broiled Partridge, with Bacon, 844, ^54. 

Spaghetti k I'ltalienne, 960. 

Roast Saddle of Mutton, 664. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Cabinet Pudding k la Sadi-Camot, 1164. 

Coffee, Z349. 



146 



THE TABLE. 



Friday, December  . 



Bitakfast. 

Omelet Mexicaine, 473. 
Fried filack-bass, 301. 
Sausages k TAnglaise, 736. 
Saratoga Potatoes, loxi. 
Peach Marmalade, X33X. 

Cuncl)Mn. 

Picked-up Codfish, 346. 
Bee^teak Fie k I'Americaine, 488. 

Lobster Salad, 1061. 
Rice and Cream ^ la Croce, 1296. 



JH inner. 



Oak Island Oysters, 298. 

Bisque o( Clams, 8. 

Sardines, 283. Celery^, 290. 

Bouille-k-Barsse & la Marseillaise, 340. 

Erdtled Tenderloin & la B^amaise, 492. 

Tomatoes k la Reine, 1024. 

Pigeon Cutlets & la Victoria, 815. 

Fried Egg-plant, 907. 

Roast Quails on Toast, 834.' 

Celery Salad, 1041. 

Vanilla Ice-cream, 1271. 

Petites Bouchees des Dames, 1237. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Saturday^ December  . 



Brakfa0t. 

Eggs k la Valencienne, 421. 

Broiled Sardines on Toast, 403. 

Lamb Kidneys, Sautes k I'ltalienne, 663. 

Baked Potatoes. 
Marcella-wine Jelly k la Castellar, 1325. 

Cnncljcon. 

Scallops k la Brestoise, 392. 

Squabs k I'Americaine, S20. 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Mince Pie, 1082. 



iUinnfr. 



Cla^s, 300. 

Consomme Napolitaine, 127. 

Radishes, 292. Caviare, 281. 

Haddock, Cream sauce, 352, z8i. 

Mignons Filets, with Marrow, 516. 

Fried Egg-plant, 907; 

> Duck k la Rouennaise, 825. 

Celery, with Cream,.929. 

Roast Lamb, Mint sauce, 585, 169. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Biscuits Tortoni, 1287. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Sunday^ December 



Brcakfaat. 



Eggs k la Hyde, 448. 

Fried Frogs' Le^, Tomato sauce, 400, 205. 

Hasjied Chicken, with Cream, 804. 

Fried Oyster-plant, 1021. 

Rice k la Conde, 1181, 



Cncl)on. 



Dinner. 



Stewed Terrapin k la Maryland, 397. 

Broiled Red - head Ducks, Currant Jelly, 

876, 132^. 

Risotto k la Milanaise, 1017, 

Japanese Salad, 1075. 

Raspberry Tarts, 11 18. 



Small Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Chicken, with Leeks, 68. 

Celery, 290. Olives. 

Stuffed Deviled Lobster, 367. 

Salmi of Woodcock k la Gastronome, 842. 

French Peas. 

Sweetbreads k la Soubise, 606. 

Tomatoes k la Bock, 1026. 

Punch k la Lorenzo Delmonico, 1303. 

Roast Grouse k la Sam Ward, 853. 

Celery, Mayonnaise Salad, 1042, 

Macedoine k la Cavour, 1298. 

Biscuits Ambroisienne, 1234. 

Camembert Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



MENUS. 



147 



Monday, December 



Breakfast. 



Hominy, with Cream, 1034. 

Eggs ^ I'Aurore, 444. 

Broiled Venison Steaks, mattre d*h6tel, 

879. *4S- 

Fried Potatoes, 993. 

Crme Renversee, X252. 



JDtnncr. 



ttnc[)on. 



Canap^ Lorenzo, 391. 

Mignons of Lamb k la M ontebello, 1360, 249. 

Brussels Sprouts, with Butter, 922; 

Cliarlotte Russe, i26x. 



Massachusetts Bay Oysters, 298. 

Puree Faubonne, 46. 

Celery, 290. Sardines, 283. 

Red-snapper & la Bordelaise, 341. 

Quafls Braised, Celery sauce, 836. 

Lamb Chops & la Maintenon, 685. 

Cauliflower, Hollandaise, 935, 160. 

Roast Plover sur Canape, 865. 

Doucette Salad, X054. 

Cocoanut Pudding, X147. 

Coffee, i349> 



Tuesday^ December 



Breakfast. 



Smoked Beef Omelet, 461. 

Stewed Oysters k la Baltimore, 388. 

Broiled Lamb Chops, with Bacon, 647, 754. 

Potatoes en Faille, 1014. 

Preserved Strawberries, 1345. 



Dinner. 



Cttntl) 



^eon. 

Scallops Brestoise, 392. 

Soles & la Horly, 321. 

Blanquette of Veal, with Nouilles, 552. 

Oyster-plant k la Poulette, 10x9. 

Lobster Salad k la Plummer, 1062. 

Rice and Cream k la Croce, 1296, 



Chincotei^ue Oysters, 298. 

Green Turtle, 16. 

Anchovies, 284. Watercress, 1072. 

Boned Deviled Smelts, sauce Tartare, 353, 207. 

Boiled Turkey a I'Anglaise, 795. 

French Peas. 

Tenderloin k la Hussard, 5x9. 

Stuffed Onions, 970. - 

Roast Saddle of Venison, 878. 

Romaine Salad, X064. 

Omelet Soufflee, 474. 

Coffee, 1349. 



I4 



THE TABLE. 



CHRISTMAS. 
Wednesday, December  

BuokfaBt. 

E^gs h, I'Aurore, 444. 

Broiled Salt Mackerel, 329. 

Porterhouse Steak, 524. Potatoes, CMteau, 1009, 

CrSme en Mousse au Maraschino, 1257. 



Cuncljeon. 



Lohster en Chevreuse, 362. 
Chicken, Saut^ with Tarragon, 774. 

Broiled Sweet Potatoes, 983. 

Fie k la Martha Washington, 1105. 

Biscuits Glaces, xaS^. 



Uinncr. 



Small Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Consomm^ Printanier Royale, 124. 

Celery, 290,. Radkhes, 29s. 

BoOchees k la Reine, 270. 

Terrapin h. la Baltimore, 396. 

Filets, Mignons k la Bayard, 509, 231. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, a la Reine, 1024. 

Supreme of Partridge k la P^rigueux, 850. 

French Peas, with fresh Butter, 978. 

StuflFed Deviled Lobster. 367. 

Champagne Punch, 1307. 

Canvas'back Ducks, with Currant Jelly, 874, X32. 

Lettuce and Egg Salad, 1038. 

Nougat Pyramid, 1267. * 

Plombi&re kla Hamilton, 1370. 

Petites Bouchees des Dames a la Mtne. Astor, 1238. 

Sweet Macaroons^ 12x0. 

Lady-fingers, 1231. Biscuits Richelieu, 1232. 

Coffee, Z349. 

Punch & la Czarina* 1312  to be served at xo p. m. 



MENUS. 



149 



Thursday, December  . 



Brcakfart. 



Dinner. 



Spanish Omelet, 473. 

Fried Frosl-fish, 301. 

Hamburg Steak. Madeira sauce, 526, 185. 

Potatoes, Lyonnaise, 991. 

Prunes ^ la G^o^ral Dufbur, 1330. 



iEuncljeon. 



Canape Lorenzo, 391. 

Broiled CalTs Liver and Bacon, 584. 

Anchovy Salad, 1037. 

Rice Pudding & I'Orange, 1x30. 



Mill Pond Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Barley, 77. 

Tomatoes, 3S8. Caviare, a8i. 

Stuffed Deviled Crabs, 370. 

Croustade of Kidneys, with Mushrooms, 680. 

Spinich, with Eggs, 946, 

Broiled Tenderloin and Watercress, 503. 

Stul ed Peppers/97S. 

Roast Grouse, 832. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Kirsch Omelet, 476. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Friday^ December 



Bi-cakfast. 

Scrambled Eggs, with Asparagus-tops, 406. 

Cod's Tongues, black Butter, 349. 

Hashed Turkey en Bordure, 805. 

Broiled Sweet Potatoes, 983. 

Baked Apples, 1124. 



JDinncr. 



Cnncl)on. 



Porgies, Tomato sauce, 301, 305. 

Chicken Pot-pie, 757. 

Russian Salad, 1065. 

Madeleine, 1126. 



Oysters, 298. 

Consomm^ Chatelaine, 128. 

Then, 282. Celery, 290. 

Red-snapper, Egg sauce, 352, x6x, 

CoquiUes of Sweetbreads & la Dreux, 621. 

Salmi of Reed-birds, mason d'or, 867. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Roast Chicken, 755, 

Lettuce Salad, 1057. 

Baba au Rhum, 1217, 

Coffee, X349. 



Saturday^ December  . 



Breakfast. 

Tomato^Omelet k la Proven^le,457. 

Fish Balls, 347. 

Lamb en Brochette k la Dumas, 674. 

Fried Potatoes, 993, 

Brioche k la Cond^, X203. 

Cnncl)on. 

Stuffed Oysters ^ la Mali, 386, 

Cairs-head k la Cfivour, 638. 

Stuffed Cabbage, 919. 

Potato Salad, 1073. 

Charlotte au Caii, 1362, 



JDinncr. 



Clams, 300. 

Chicken k la Portugalse, 66. 

Watercress, T072. Sardines, 283. 

Sheep's-head, maltre d'hdtel, 329. 

Salmi of Ducks, with Turnips, 836. 

Spaghetti NapoUtaine, 959. 

Tenderloin, Piqud i la Florentine, 506. 

Roast Red-heads, with Hominy, 876, 1035. 

Celery Salad, xo4a. 

Plombi&re k la Kingman. X294. 

Coffee, X349. 



ISO 



THE TABLE. 



Sunday, December ^. 



BrcakfaBt, 



Eggs & la Bourguignonne, 411. 

Broiled Frogs, maitre d'hdtel, 398. 

Broiled Beefsteak k la Beamaise, 492. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 1027. 

Buckwheat Cakes, 1183. 



uncl)on. 



Smelts, Toulouse, 354. 

Blanquette of Veal, with Peas, 551. 

Chicken Salad, 1044, 

Mince Pie, X082. 



WVCVMX. 



Blue Point Oysters, 298. 

Cream of Asparagus, 70. 

Radishes, 292. Celery, 290. 

Bass & la Chambord, 343. 

Chicken Fricasse k la Reine, 780. 

Brussels Sprouts, 922. 

Broiled Tenderloin aux Gourmets, 508. 

Stuffed Egg-plant, 909. 

Punch en Surprise, 1309. 

Roast Grouse k la Sajn Ward, 853. 

Chicory Salad, 1045. 

Diplomatic Pudding, Z129. 

Strachino Cheese. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Monday^ December  . 



Omelet, with fine Herbs, 451,. 

Minced Beef k la Catalan, 502. 

Sausages k I'ltalienne, 737. 

Potatoes, Julienne, 1013. 

Apple Fritters, 1191. 

Cuncl)con. 

Clams k la Merrill, 389. 
Stewed Lamb aux Flageolets, 707. 

Oyster-plant, Poulette, 1019. 
Rice and Apples k la Czar, XT73. 



JBinncr. 



East River Oysters, 298. 

Consomme Garibaldi, 1x2. 

Olives. Mortadella, 287. 

Codfish, Oyster sauce, 352. 

Leg of Mutton, Bretonne, 650, 

Onions, with Cream, 968. 

Squabs en Compote, 822. 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 926. 

Roast BeefJ 527. 

Escarole Salad, 1055. 

Blanc-Manger k la J, DelmonicO} 1270. 

Coffee, 1349. 



Tuesday^ December  . 



JBr^akfaBt. 



Eggs k la Meyerbeer, 437. 

Fried Soft-shelled Crabs, 368. 

Tripe k la Lyonnaise, 548. 

Saratoga Potatoes, loti. 

German Pancake, with Apples, 1x89. 



Concl)! 



Lobster k la Newburg, 359. 

- Breaded Veal Cutlets, Tomato sauce, 563. 

French Peas. 

Caviare on Toast, 281. 

Cherry Tarts, iiii. 



JBinner, 



Small Rockaway Oysters, 298. 

Bisque of Lobster, 10. 

Celery, 290. Radishes, 292. 

Matelote of Bass, 332. 

Salmi of Grouse k la Walter Scott, 856. 

Tenderloin of Beef, Piqu^ k la S^v^e, 520, 

Stewed Tomatoes, X027. 

Roast Partridge sur Canape, 843. 

Lettuce Salad, 1059. 

Neapolitan Ice-cream, 1292. 

Small Meringues k laCh. C. Delmonico, 1249. 

Coffee, 1349. 



SOUPS. 



1. Bonille-k-Baisse.  Chop two medium-sized, peeled, sound onions 
very fine, with one medium-sized, fine, fresh, green pepper, the same 
way, and put them in a pan on the hot range, with a, gill of sweet oil. 
When well browned, moisten with three pints of hot white broth (No. 99). 
Cut three skinned, good-sized, sound, well-washed potatoes into quarters, 
also three fine, good-sized, sound, red, peeled tomatoes into rather small 
pieces ; put all in the soup. Season with a pinch of salt (the equivalent 
of a tablespoonful) and half a pinch of pepper, and then boil well for fully 
one hour and a half, placing into it a strong bouquet (No. 254) at the be- 
ginning, also half a teaspoonful of powdered saffron, diluted in a little 
water; when nearly done, add-ons pound of boned codfish, cut into small 
pieces ; boil again for three minutes, pour into a hot soup tureen, and 
serve with six slices of toasted bread. 

2. Brnnoise.  Pare and cut into small squares three medium-sized 
carrots, one turnip, half an onion, and two leeks ; put these with two 
ounces of butter in a covered saucepan for a few moments ; moisten with 
three pints of broth (No. 99), season with half a tablespoonful of salt, and 
a teaspoonful of pepper. Cook for three-quarters of an hour, and then 
add a handful of chiffonade (No. 132) ; when ready, serve with six slices 
of toasted bread. ' 

3. Brnnoise with Bice.  The same as for No. 2, adding half a cupful 
of uncooked rice about seventeen minutes before serving ; taste to see if 
sufficiently seasoned, and serve. 

4. Bnmoise Witll Soirel.  The same, adding two good handfuls of 
chopped sorrel about two minutes before serving, 

6. Beef k I'Anglaise.  Cut up into small squares a quarter of a pound 
of raw, lean beef ; brown them a little in a saucepan on the hot range, 
then moisten with three pints of broth (No. 99), add half a pint of prin-i 
tanier (No. 51), a handful of barley, and half a pinch each of salt and pep- 
per. Boil thoroughly for half an hour, and a few moments before 
serving put in one medium-sized sliced tomato, taste to see if sufficiently 
seasoned, then pour the soup into a hot tureen, and send to the table. 

6. Beef ^ PEcOSSaise^ tllickeneil.  Brown in a little fat, in a sauce- 
pan, a quarter of a pound of small squares of lean beef and a sliced onion ; 
' moisten with three pints of broth (No. 99), adding half a cup of oatmeal, 
a small glass of Madeira wine, half a tablespoonful of salt and a tea- 
' spoonful of pepper. Let cook for thirty minutes, then serve. 

151 



152 THE TABLE. 



7. Biisecca.  ^Brown in a saucepan one pint of raw printanifer (No. 51), 
adding half a pint of chopped , celery ; let steam gently for about ten 
minutes, then moisten with three pints of white broth (No. gg) and a 
quarter of a pound of very finely shred tripe ; season with half a table-' 
spoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper. Cook thoroughly for 
twenty-five minutes, and serve with a little grated cheese, separate. 

8. Bisqne of Clams.  Open twelve large clams, scald them whole in 
their own juice, and drain. Then pou^d them in a mortar, and put 
them back into a saucepan with the same water. Add one quart of 
white broth (No. gg), one bouquet (No. 254), half a pint of raw rice, a 
little pepper, but no salt ; boil for forty-five minutes, then strain through 
a fine sieve, adding half -a. cupful of good cream. Let it heat, but not 
boil again, and serve with very small squares of fried bread. 

9. Bisqne of Crabs.  Boil four hard-shelled crabs in salted water for 
about fifteen minutes ; wash and drain them Well, and proceed as for No. 8. 

10. Bisque of Lobster.  The same as for No. 8. Two pounds of 
lobster boiled in the shell will be sufficient; serve with small squares of 
boiled lobster claw, cut in dice. 

11. Croute-an-Pot. ^Take two carrots cut in round slices, one 
turnip, cut the same, adding a few pieces of celery and half a quarter of 
chopped-up cabbage ; stew them for ten minutes in a covered saucepan, 

, with two ounces of butter ; then moisten with three pints of white broth 
(No. gg), adding half a tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper. 
Boil well for thirty minutes, and serve with six pieces of dry toasted 
rolls. 

12. Fish Chowder^ Boston style.  Take a nice live codfish of about 
six pounds, cut the head off and remove all the bones, then cut the fish 
into square pieces, place them in a bo-\vl, and add half a pinch of salt and a 
pint of cold water so as to have the flesh firm. Take the head and 
bones, placethem in a saucepan with two quarts of white broth (No. gg) 
on the stove, and as soon as it comes to a boil, skim it well. Season i 
with one pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper. Let boil for twenty 
minutes. Peel and slice very fine one small, sound onion, place it in a 
saucepan with one ounce of butter, half an ounce of salt pork, cut in small 
dice-shaped pieces, let cook for five minutes, then add two tablespoonfvils 
of flour. Stir well together for three minutes on a brisk fire, being care- 
ful not to let it get brown. Strain the broth into a bowl, and when all 
strained in, add it to the flour, stirring well until all the broth is added. 
Let boil for ten minutes. Cut two good-sized, sound potatoes in small 
dice-shaped pieces, add them to the soup. Boil five minutes. Drain the 
codfish, wash it once more, and add it to the soup. Boil five minutes 
more ; add half a pint of cold milk, being very careful not to allow to boil 
again; sprinkle a teaspoonful of chopped parsley over, and serve very hot. 

13. Clam Chowder.  Wash six fine, medium-sized potatoes, peel and 
cut them into small djce-shaped pieces, wash again in fresh water, take them 
up with a skimmer ; place them in a stewpan large enough to hold three 
quarts. Immediately add two quarts of cold water (not placing the pan on 



SOUPS. 



15: 



the fire until so mentioned). Peel one medium-sized, sound onion, chop it 
up very fine, and place it on a plate. Take a quarter of a bunch of well- 
washed parsley greens (suppressing the stalks), place it with the onions ; 
wash well two branches of soup celery, chop it up very fine, place it with 
the parsley and onions, and add all these in the stewpan. Place the pan on 
a brisk fire. Season with a light pinch of salt, adding at the same time a 
light tablespoonful of good butter. Let all cook until the pototoes are 
nearly done; eighteen minutes will be sufficient. Cut out from a piece 
of fresh pork, crosswise, one slice a third of an inch thicK, then cut it in 
pieces a third of an inch square, fry, and reduce it in a pan on the hot stove 
for four minutes. Add it to the broth, add also three-quarters of a 
teaspoonful of branch dry thyme. Lightly scald four fine, medium-sized 
tomatoes, peel and cut them into small pieces and add them to the prep- 
aration. Open and place in a bowl twenty-four medium-sized, fine, 
fresh clams ; pour into another bowl half of their juke. Place the clams 
on a wooden board, cut each one into four equal pieces, and immediately 
plunge them into the pan with the rest ; gently mix, so as to prevent 
burning at the bottom while boiling, for two minutes. Range the pan on 
the corner of the stove to keep warm. Season with a saltspoonful of 
black pepper, one tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce, gently stir the 
whole with a wooden spoon ; break in two pilot crackers in small pieces, 
stir a little again. Leave two minutes longer in the same position, but 
under ho circumstances allow to boil. Pour it into a hot soup-tureen, and 
serve. 

14. Chiffonade.  Wash well, drain, and chop up very fine one quart 
of sorrel with the green leaves of a lettuce-head. Brown in a saucepan, 
with two ounces of butter and a sliced onion, seasoning with half a table- 
spoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper. Moisten with three pints of 
white broth (No. 99), add a handful of peas, the same of string beans and 
asparagus tops ; boil for three-quarters of an hour with an ounce of but- 
ter; serve with six slices of toasted bread. 

15. How to Preparfi Green Turtle.  Select a medium-sized turtle, 
cut off the head, and let it bleed for twelve hours. Remove the bones by 
opening the sides ; cut the carcass in pieces, and blanch them for three 
minutes in boiling water. Lift off the top shell and place it in a sauce- 
pan, covering it with white broth (No. 99), a handful of whole pepper, 
one dozen cloves, half a bunch of thyme, and six bay leaves (all the 
above spices and herbs carefully tied in a white cloth). Add a handful of 
salt, and cook for about one hour. Drain, remove the bones, cut the 
rest in dice-sized squares. Let the broth be reduced to three-fourths its 
quantity, then put in the white, lean meat, letting it cook for ten minutes, 
and then add the green part (the shell) of the turtle. Fill some medium- 
sized pots with this, and when cooled off pour hot lard over the tops. A 
good glassful of Madeira wine can be added to the broth, according 'to 
taste. 

16. Crreen Turtle Soup.  Place a pint of green turtle, cut into pieces 
(No. 15) in a saucepan with two pints of broth (No. 99); add a bouquet 



154 ^^-^ TABLE. 



(No. 254), a glassful of Madeira wine, a. little bit of red pepper, half a, 
tablespoonful of salt, a little grated nutmeg, a teaspoonful of English 
sauce, and a cupful of Espagnole sauce (No. 151). Boil for twenty min- 
utes, and serve with six slices of peeled lemon, after suppressing the bou- 
quet. 

17. Mock Turtle.  To be prepared as for green turtle (No. 16), substi- 
tuting a pint of cooked calf's-head for the turtle. 

18. Clear Green Turtle.  Proceed the same as for the green turtle (No. 
i5), omitting the Espagnole sauce, but adding two tablespoonfuls of dis- 
solved corn-starch, also a quarter of a glassful more of Madeira wine 
before serving. 

19. Giblets with Bice.  Take three chicken giblets and brown them in 
a saucepan, with half an ounce of fat and one sliced onion. Moisten with 
one quart of white broth (No. 99), adding one thinly sliced carrot, half a 
sliced turnip, a tablespoonful of well- washed rice, half a tablespoonful of 
salt, and a very little pepper. Boil for thirty minutes, and then put in 
one sliced tomato; cook for five minutes more, and serve, adding one tea- 
spoonful of Parisian sauce. 

20.  GiblelS k I'Eeossaise. The same as for No. 19, substituting half 
a cupful of oatmeal for rice ten minjites before serving. 

21. Oibiets with Barley.  The same as No. 19, substituting barley for 
rice forty minutes before serving. 

22. Giblets k I'Ang-laise.  Brown in a saucepan three minced giblets 
with a sliced onion; moisten with one quart of white broth (No. 99), add- 
ing a cupful of Espagnole sauce (No. i5i)J, a bouquet (No. 254), half a 
glassful of Madeira wine, a teaspoonful of Parisian sauce, and half a 
tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper. Cook thoroughly for 
about thirty minutes, and when done, serve with one chopped hard-boiled 
egg. 

23. Gumbo with Frogs.  Brown in half an ounce of butter, in a sauce- 
pan, one chopped onion with about one ounce of raw ham cut into dice 
shape, half a green pepper cut in small dice, and half a tablespoonful of salt 
and a teaspoonful of pepper. Moisten with one quart of white broth (No. 99), 
or consomme (No. 100), add one tablespoonful of raw rice, six sliced 
gumbos, and one sliced tomato. Let all cook thoroughly for about twenty 
minutes ; and five minutes before serving add a quarter of a pound of raw 
frogs cut up into small pieces. 

24. Gumbo of Crabs. The same as for No. 23; replacing the frogs 
by three well- washed, minced, soft-shelled crabs five minutes before 
serving. 

25. Frogs k I'Espagnole. The same as No. 23, adding one green pep- 
per and two tomatoes (as green peppers and tomatoes must predominate 
when frogs are used instead of crabs), and omitting the gumbo. 

26. Oysters. Put thirty medium-sized oysters in their own water, 
with half a pint of water added, in a saucepan, with a tablespoonful of salt 
and half a teaspoonful of pepper, and one ounce of good butter. Let it 
boil once only; then serve, adding half a pint of cold milk. 



SOUPS. 155 

27. Jnlieune.  Cut into fine long shreds two carrots, half a turnip, 
two leaves of celery, one leek, an eighth of a cabbage, and half an onion; 
brown them in a saucepan with one ounce of butter; moisten with one 
quart of white broth (No. gg), or consomm6 (No. 100), and season with 
half a tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper. Cook for thirty 
minutes; add two tablespoonfuls of cooked green peas, and one table- 
spoonful of cooked string beans. Boil up again, and serve. 

28. Jardiniere.  The same as for No. 27, only the vegetables are cut 
larger, and omit the cabbage. When ready to serve, add a handful of 
chiffonade (No. 132) five minutes before serving. 

29. Sllin of Beef Li^e.  Place ten pounds of leg of bfeef (shin) irt a 
saucepan, with one gallon of cold water, on the fire. When it comes to a 
boil, thoroughly skim off all the scum. Add one good-sized carrot, one 
sound onion, six cloves, eighteen whole peppers, a well-garnished bou- 
quet (No. 254)^ and two pinches of salt. Let all boil on a moderate fire 
for four hours. Place in a saucepan two ounces of butter, four table- 
spoonfuls of flour, mix well together, and place it also on a moderate fire, 
stirring it once in a while until it has obtained a light brown color, which 
will take six minutes. When the broth has boiled for four hours, strain 
either through a. napkin or a. sieve into a vessel and let cool for five 
minutes; then gradually add it to the flour, stirring until all is added; 
place it on the fire, and when it boils skim it once more, and let cook for 
ten minutes. Cut a piece of four ounces of the meat of the cooked shin 
of beef into small dice-shape pieces half an inch square, add them to the 
soup, let all boil ten minutes; squeeze in the juice of one medium-sized 
sound lemon, add a glassful of Madeira wine, and serve in hot tureen. 

30. Mutton with Barley.  Cut in small squares a quarter of a pound 
of lean mutton, and brown them in saucepan, with a little fat, on the hot 
range, with half a chopped sound onion. Moisten with three pints of 
white broth (No. gg), and season with half a pinch of salt, and half a 
pinch of pepper; add half a pint of printanier (No. 51), a little cut-up cel- 
ery, and a tablespoonful of well-washed barley. Boil well together for 
forty minutes; pour into a hot soup-tureen and serve. 

31. Mntton h I'Ecossaise.  The same as for No. 30, substituting half 
a cupful of oatmeal for the barley ten minutes before serving. 

32. jMiliado.  Cut half of a small breast of chicken, a quarter of a 
pound of very lean veal, and a quarter of a pound of lean mutton, into 
small equal-sized dice-shaped piece^s', and put them in a saucepan on the 
hot stove, with two ounces of good butter. Cook for five minutes, stir- 
ring with the spatula; then moisten with two quarts of broth (No. gg), 
adding a finely chopped medium-sized onion, the same of green pepper, 
two tablespoonfuls of diluted curry, and a bouquet (No. 254). Season 
with a tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper, and, after cook- 
ing for thirty minutes, add three tablespoonfuls of raw rice and cook again 
for thirty minutes. Remove the bouquet, skim thoroughly, and pour 
the soup into a hot soup-tureen to serve. 

33. Westmoreland Sonp.  Put into a saucepan one quart of broth 



156 THE TABLE. 



(No. gg), one quart of Espaghole sauce (Nb. 151), three tablespoonfuls of 
Parisian sauce, a, little cayenne pepper (about the equivalent of a green 
pea), and a bouquet (No. 254); place the saucepan on the hot stove, and 
add two cooked and boned calf's feet, cut into small square pieces, and 
pour in a glassful of good Madeira wine. Cook for thirty minutes, remove 
the bouquet, and skim the fat from the surface; pour the soup into a 
hot tureen; add eighteen cooked chicken quenelles (No. 226), then send 
to the table. 

84. Mnlligatawnej.  Cut a quarter of a medium-sized raw chicken 
in pieces, with half a green pepper, half an ounce of lean raw ham, and 
half a finely sliced onion. Brown the whole for five minutes in a sauce- 
pan ; moisten with one quart of white broth (No. gg), adding a quarter of 
a pint of very finely cut printanier (No. 51), a teaspoonful of curry, and 
half a green apple cut into small pieces , one slice of egg-plant cut into 
small pieces, and a tablespoonful of uncooked rice. Season with half a 
tablespoonf ul of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper ; boil for twenty-fivfe 
minutes and serve. 

35. Mnlligatawney k la Delmonico.  The same as for No. 34, but 
instead of the printanier use ,two tablespoonfuls of rice, adding twelve 
medium-sized oysters two minutes before serving. 

36. fflenestra.  Cut up all together into fine pieces two carrots, half a 
turnip, two leeks, a quarter of a cabbage, half an onion, and one stalk of 
celery, and steam them in two ounces of butter for about ten minutes in a 
covered saucepan ; moisten with three pints of white broth (No. gg), add- 
ing one tablespoonful of washed rice,abouquet (No. 254), and half a table- 
spoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper. Boil well for thirty 
minutes, and serve with two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese separately for 
each person. 

37. Napolitaine.  Cut into small pieces a quarter of a raw chicken ; 
brown them well in one ounce of butter, with an ounce of lean raw ham, 
half a green pepper, half a sliced onion, also one carrot cut in the same 
way. Steam for ten minutes in a saucepan, then moisten with three pints 
of white broth (No. gg) ; season with half a. tablespoonful of salt and 'a 
tfeaspoonful of pepper, and add one tablespoonful of raw rice. Let it 
simmer until half cooked (about fifteen minutes), then throw in one ounce 
of pieces of macaroni and half a tomato. Boil again for ten minutes, and 
serve with two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese separately. 

88. Ox-Tail wjth Barley.  Cut a small ox-tail into little pieces, wash 
well, drain them, then place in 'a saucepan with a quarter of an ounce of 
butter, fry for ten minutes on the hot stove. Moisten with three pints of 
consommfe (No. 100) ; season with half a pinch of salt and half a pinch of 
pepper. Cook for one hour. Then add half a pint of printahier (No. 51), 
one tablespoonful of well-washed barlfey, and a teaspoonful of Parisian 
sauce. Cook for forty minutes, then skim the fat off, and a few moments 
before serving add one medium-sized, red, sliced tomato to the soup. 

39. Ox-Tail k I'EcoSSaise.  The same as for No. 38, substituting half 
a cupful of oatmeal for the barley ten minutes before serving. 



SOUPS. 



157 



40. Ox-Tail II PAnglaise. Cut a small ox-tail into pieces, and fry 
them the same as in No. 38. Moisten with a quart of consomm6 (No. 100), 
and one pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151). Cook for one hour, then 
season with a pinch of pepper, add one tablespoonful of well-washed 
barley, one teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, half a glass of Madeira 
wine, and a bouquet (No. 254). Boil thoroughly for forty-five minutes, 
skim off the fat, then serve with six slices of lemon, and one chopped hard- 
boiled egg, and suppressing the bouquet. 

41. Sorrel with Asparagus-tops.  Chop up fine one quart of well 
picked and washed sorrel; put it in a saucepan with two ounces of butter. 
Let it steam for ten minutes ; then moisten with three pints of white 
broth (No. gg), adding half a, cupful of asparagus-tops, and half a table- 
spoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper. Cook together for twenty- 
five minutes, and when about serving thicken it with the yolk of one egg 
in half a cupful of cream. Serve with six sippets of toast. 

42. Sorrel with Rice.  The same as for No. 41, using two table- 
spoonfuls of rice twenty minutes before serving, instead of the asjJaragus, 
and omitting the sippets of toast. 

43. Par^ Jackson.  Cut one pint of potatoes into pieces and cover 
them with one qu2irt of white broth (No. gg) in a saucepan. Press the 
broth through a napkin, adding about two ounces of butter and a bouquet 
(No. 254.) Season with half a tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of 
pepper, cook well for thirty minutes, then strain the soup, adding half a 
cupful of cream, and serve with six sippets of toast. Do not let it boil 
again after the cream has been added. 

44. Plir^e Parmeutier.  The same as for No. 43, adding one bunch 
of cut-up leeks fifteen minutes before serving. 

45. Pur^ Bretonne.  The same as for No. 43, substituting one pint 
of dried white beans, previously soaked for four hours in cold water, for 
the potatoes. 

46. Pnr^e Fanbonne.  The same as for No. 43, using one pint of 
lentils instead of potatoes. (Lentils must also be soaked for four hours 
before using.) Throw in two tablespoonfuls of cooked green peas and a 
pinch of chopped parsley one minute before serving. 

47. Pur^e Cr^y.  Steam four medium-sized finely chopped carrots 
for fifteen minutes in asaucepan, with two ounces of butter ; then moisten 
with one quart of white broth (No. gg), adding half a cupful of raw rice, 
one bouquet (No. 254), and half a tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful 
of pepper. Cook thoroughly for thirty minutes, then strain through a 
fine colander. Finish with half a cupful of cream, and serve with two 
tablespoonfuls of croiitons (No. 133). 

48. Plir^e Con<!e  Place in a saucepan on the fire one pint of red 
beans, previously soaked for four hours in cold water. Moisten with one 
quart of white broth (No. gg), and add two ounces of blanched salt pork, one 
onion, one carrot, a bouquet (No. 254), and a teaspoonful of pepper. Cook 
thoroughly for one hour; then strain, add half a glassful of claret, and then 
serve with two tablespoonfuls of square crofttons of fried bread (Np. 133). 



158 THE TABLE. 



49. Pur^e of Green Peas.  The same as for No. 48, using a pint of 
green peas instead of red beans, and adding half a cupful of cream in the 
place of claret, and one ounce of butter, one minute before serving. 

50. Pur6e Mongole.  Boil in a saucepan half a cupful of dried peas in 
two gills of white broth (No. 99), for one hour J if fresh peas, half an hour 
will be sufficient. Cut up in julienne shape, one medium-sized soiind 
carrot, one small turnip, and one leek ; place them in a saucepan with 
half an ounce of butter on the hot stove, cover the pan, and let simmer 
for five minutes. Peel two good-sized ripe tomatoes, cut them into 
quarters, put them in a saucepan with a quarter of an ounce of butter ; 
season with one pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, add one gill of 
white broth (No. 99). Let cook for twenty minutes on a brisk fire. Then 
strain the tomatoes through a fine sieve into a bowl, add them now to 
julienne, let all cook five minutes longer; strain the peas through the 
sieve into the julienne, let the whole come to a boil, and serve in a hot 
soup-tureen. 

61. Prmtanier Grenat.  Cut into small pieces two carrots, half a 
turnip, half an onion, two leaves of celery, and two leeks; steam them 
well for ten minutes in a saucepan with one ounce of butter; then moisten 
with three pints of consommfe (No. 100), adding two tablespoonfuls of rice, 
half a pinch each of salt and pepper. Cook thoroughly for thiirty minutes 
and five minutes before serving put in one cut-up raw tomato. 

52. Printanier Chasseur.  Proceed as for No. 51, only replacing the 
tomato with half the breast of a cooked grouse, partridge, or any other 
game, cut into small pieces, and twelve quenelles (No. 221). 

53. Paysanne.  Cut in square-shaped pieces two carrots, half a turnip, 
an eighth of a cabbage, half an onion, one potato, and two leaves of celery. 
Steam them for ten minutes with two ounces of butter in a saucepan; 
then moisten with three pints of white broth (No. 99); season with half a 
tablespoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of pepper. Cook foi: thirty 
minutes, and when serving add six thin slices of bread. 

54. Pot-an-Fen.  ^Family Sonp.  Thoroughly wash twice in cold 
water, either six pounds of brisket or eight pounds of shin of beef. Place 
it in the stock-pot, and entirely cover with cold water ; place it on the fire, 
and be very careful, as soon as it comes to a boil, to thoroughly skim 
off all the scum. Add two medium-sized, sound, well-cleaned carrots, one 
turnip, one good-sized, well-peeled onion with six cloves stuck in it, and 
two leeks tied together. Season with two pinches of salt, and eighteen 
whole peppers; let boil for four hours. Strain either through a napkin or 
a sieve into a bowl; cut the carrots into round pieces, quarter of an inch 
thick, turnip the same, as also the leeks; add all these to the broth, and 
serve with six quarters of toasted rolls. 

55. A la Rnsse.  Cut into pieces one ounce each of lean, raw ham, 
mutton, beef, and veal; brown them well in one ounce of butter with the 
half of a finely shred onion for five minutes. Moisten with one quart of 
white broth (No. 99), then throw in half a pint of prepared printanier as 
for No. 109, and a tablespoonful of raw rice. Boil thoroughly for thirty 



SOUPS. 



159 



minutes, season with two teaspoonfuls of pepper, and five minutes before 
serving add a handful of chiffonade (No. 132). 

56. Spaghetti with Tomatoes.  Pour into a saucepan one pint of white 
broth (No. 99), one pint of tomato sauce (No. 205), and season with half a 
pinch each of salt and pepper. Let it boil well for ten minutes ; then throw 
in half a pint of cooked spaghetti  cut about three-quarters of an inch in 
length; cook agaih for five minutes, tossing them well meanwhile, and 
serve very hot. 

67. Tomatoes with Bice.  The same as for No. 56, using three table- 
spoonfuls of raw rice twenty minutes before serving instead of the cooked 
spaghetti. 

5S. Tomatoes & rAndalonse.  Boil together in a saucepan one pint 
of tomato sauce (No. 205), and three pints of consomm6 (No. 100). Add 
half a tablespoonf ul of salt and a teaspoonf ul of pepper ; then put in two 
tablespoonfuls of tapioca, stirring it well all the time. Cook for fifteen 
minutes, and add twelve chicken quenelles (No. 226); then serve. 

59. Tomato with Sago.  Boil for ten minutes in a saucepan one pint 
of tomato sauce (No. 205), and three pints of consomm6 (No. 100), season- 
ing with half a pinch each of salt and pepper ; add two tablespoonfuls of 
sago, cook again for fifteen minutes, gently stirring, and serve. 

60. Terrapin  how to prepare it.  Take live terrapin, and blanch 
them in boiling water for two minutes. Remove the skin from the feet, and 
put them back to cook with some salt in the saucepan until they feel soft 
to the touch; then put them aside to cool. Remove the carcass, cut it in 
medium-sized pieces, removing the entrails, being careful not to break the 
gall-bag. Put thQ pieces in a smaller saucepan, adding two teaspoonfuls 
of pepper, a little nutmeg, according to the quantity, a tablespoonful of 
salt, and a glassful of Madeira wine. Cook for five minutes, and put it 
away in the ice-box for further use. 

61. Terrapin ^ionp.  Put in a saucepan one pint of Espagnole sauce 
(No. 151) and half a pint of consomm6 (No. 100). Add a good bouquet 
(No. 254), one tablespoonful of Parisian sauce, a very little red pepper, 
the same of nutmeg, and half a glassful of Madeira wine. Boil for twenty 
minutes, being careful to remove the fat, if any; add half a pint of terra- 
pin prepared as above (No. 60), and boil for ten minutes longer. Then 
serve with six slices of lemon, always removing the bouquet. 

62. Cllicken & la Bichmond.  Place a quarter of a medium-sized 
chicken, previously boned, into a saucepan with one ounce of butter or 
fat, one finely shred onion, and half a green pepper, also shred. Fry well 
together for ten minutes ; then ^moisten with three pints of white broth 
(No. 99), adding a teaspoonful of powdered curry, diluted in two tablespoon- 
fuls of broth, good bouquet (No. 254), a spoonful of Lima beans, two table- 
spoonfuls of fresh corn, and six cut-up gumbos, suppressing the stalks. 
Season with half a tablespoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of pepper; cook 
thoroughly for thirty-five minutes; remove the bouquet and serve. 

63. Chicken Pi^montaise. The same as No. 37, omitting the carrots 
and rice. 



l6o THE TABLE. 



64. Chicken Hollandaise.  Cut one quarter of a medium-sized raw 
chicken into small pieces with half an onion ; brown well together for ten 
minutes in a saucepan with an ounce of butter, and moisten with three pints 
of consomm6 (No. loo). Add three tablespoonfuls of raw rice, half a 
tablespoonful of salt, a very little red pepper, and a bouquet (No, 254). 
Boil thoroughly for twenty minutes; remove the bouquet, and serve. 

65. CMcken k la Creole.  The same as for No. 64, adding half a 
chopped green pepper, one ounce of lean, raw ham, cut in small pieces. 
Five minutes before serving put one cut tomato in the soup. 

66. Chicken k la Portngaise.  Prepare the chicken as for No. 64; 
add half a pint of cooked printanier (No. 51) cut very fine five minutes 
before serving. 

67. Chicken Si rOkra.  The same as for No. 65, adding twel-ve raw 
okras cut in small pieces ten minutes before serving. 

68. Chicken with Leeks.  Brown for ten minutes, in one ounce of 
butter in a saucepan, one quarter of a medium-sized chicken with half a 
cut-up small onion; moisten with three pints of consommfe (No. lop), adding 
three legks cut in pieces, a bouquet (No. 254), and half a tablespoonful of 
salt and a teaspoonful of pepper. Boil thoroughly for thirty minutes 
jind serve, suppressing the bouquet. 

69. Chicken & la Turque.  Brown in a saucepan a quarter of a raw 
chicken in one ounce of butter, with one ounce of raw ham and a sliced 
onion, moisten with a quart of consomm6 (No. Ipo), and half a. pint of 
tomato sauce (No. 205), add two tablespoonfuls of raw rice, a bouquet 
(No. 254), half a tablespoonful of salt, half a cut-up green pepper, and one 
teaspoonful of diluted curry. Boil fpr thirty minutes a^nd serve, remov- 
ing the bouquet. 

70. Cream of Asparagrns. Put two ounces of butter in a saucepan, 
adding three tablespoonfuls of flour; stir well, and moisten with three 
pints of white broth (No. 99). Put in the equivalent of half a bunch of 
asparagus; add a bouquet (No. 254), twelve whole peppers, and half a 
tablespoonful of salt. Boil thoroughly for thirty minutes; then strain 
through a fine sieve, add half a cupful of cream, and serve either with a. 
handful of cooked asparagus tops or croutons souffles (No. 134). 

71. Cream ofCelery.  Heat half a pint of mirepoix (No. 138) in a 
saucepan with an ounce of butter, adding three tablespoonfuls of flour; 
moisten with three pints of white broth (No. 99), put in half a bunch of 
celery with a little nutmeg, and half a tablespoonful of salt; let boil well- 
for forty-five minutes then strain through a sieve; add half a cupful of 
cream, and serve with two tablespoonfuls of croutons (No. 133)1 

72. Cream of Artichokes.  Heat half a pint of mirepoix (No. 138) in 
a saucepan with one ounce of butter, adding three tablespoonfuls of flour, 
and half a tablespoonful of salt; mdisten with three pints pf white broth 
(No. gg), and put in two welUpared, fresh, or three canned, artichokes, araj 
cook well for thirty minutes; strain through a. sieve, stir in half a cupful 
of cream, and serve with a handful pf croutons souffles (Nd. 134). 

78. Cream of CauliflOirer, Proceed the same as for No. 72, omitting 



SOUPS. i6i 

the mirepoix, and substituting half a medium-sized cauliflower instead of 
artichokes. 

74. Cream Palestine. Boil for about twenty-five minutes half a 
pound of Jerusalem artichokes; peel and mash them well, then put them 
in a saucepan with 6ne ounce of butter, moistening with three pints of 
white broth (No. 99), and half a pint of mirepoix (No. 138). Add three 
tablespoonfuls of raw rice, and half a tablespoonful of salt. Cock 
thorpughly for thirty minutes; then strain through a sieve, and finish 
with half a cupful of cream, and a handful of croutons soufllfes 
(No. 134). 

75. Cream of Lima Beans.  Put two ounces of butter in a saucepan 
with half a pint of mirepoix (No. 138), a tablespoonful of flour, and or,e 
pint of Lima beans, seasoning with half a tablespoonful of salt. Moisten 
with three pints of white broth (No. 99); cook for thirty minutes; then 
strain through a sieve, and serve with half a cupful of cream and a hand- 
ful of croutons soufflfes (No. 134). 

76. Cream of Dried Green Peas.  Soak one pint of dried peas for four 
hours; then cover them with three pints of white broth (No. 99), or 
water. Put them in a saucepan, adding a bouquet (No. 254), a good-sized 
piece of salt pork (about two ounces), one carrot, one onion, three cloves, 
and twelve whole peppers. Cook for forty-five minutes; then rub 
through a sieve, add two ounces of good butter, and half a cupful of cream, 
and serve with sippets of fried bread. Should water be used instead of 
broth, taste before serving to see if sufficiently seasoned. 

77a Cream of Barley.  Moisten half a pint of well-washed barley with 
one quart of white broth (No. gg), adding a bouquet (No. 254), and one 
whole onion; boil in the saucepan on the stove for forty-five minutes, and 
season with half a tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper. 
Strain through a coarse colander, and removing the bouquet, serve with 
a thickening made of a cupful of cream and the yolks of two raw eggs, 
and a handful of sippets of bread fried in butter. 

78. Cream of Bice.  Same as for No. 77, using rice instead of barley, 
and letting it cook thirty minutes. 

79. Cream of Sorrel,  Steam three good handfuls of well-cleaned 
sorrel with one ounce of butter. After cooking ten minutes, rub through 
a sieve into a saucepan; ad(l a quart of white broth (No. 99), and one 
pint of bfechamel sauce (No. 154); season with half a tablespoonful of salt 
and a teaspoonful of pepper and let boil for fifteen minutes. Thicken the 
soup before serving with half a cupful of cream and the yolks of two raw 
eggs well beaten together, adding six slices of bread. 

80. Cream of Sorrel and Rice.  The same as for No. 79, adding three 
tablespoonfuls of raw rice, and cooking for twenty minutes longer. 

81. Cream of Sorrel, ferinifere. Steam three good handfuls of well- 
cleaned sorrel with one ounce of butter for ten minutes, and then strain 
it as for the above. Moisten with three pints of broth (No. 99), adding 
one more ounce of butter, one sliced, raw potato, two leeks cut in small 
squares, half an onion, also cut, half a. tablespoonful of salt, and a 

II 



1 62 THE TABLE. 



teaspoonful of pepper. Cook well for thirty minutes, and serve with six 
slices of bread, but add no thickening. 

82. Cream of Chicken.  Pound half a boiled chicken in a mortar, then 
put it in a saucepan, and moisten with three pints of white broth (N0.99), 
adding one cupful of raw rice, one bouquet (No. 254), half a tablespoonful 
of salt, twelve whole peppers, and three cloves. Boil thoroughly for 
thirty minutes ; then strain through a fine sieve ; put in half a cupful of 
cream, and serve with two tablespoonfuls of small pieces of cooked 
chicken in the tureen, or croutons souffles instead of the chicken. 

83. Cream of Game.  The same as for No. 82, using game instead of 
chicken; the same quantity of each being needed. > 

84. Cream k I'Allemande.  Heat half a pint of mirepoix (No. 138) in 
a saucepan with one ounce of butter, adding two tablespoonfuls of flour, 
and moistening with three pints of white broth (No. gg); season with half a 
tablespoonful of salt and three cloves. Boil for thirty minutes, then 
strain, and after adding an ounce of good butter, serve with two ounces of 
very finely chx. noodles (No. 11 82) which have been previously boiled in 
salted water. 

85. Cream of Turnips.  Put three medium sized cut-up raw turnips 
in a saucepan with one ounce of butter; steam them for thirty minutes, 
then add one pint of good b6chamel sauce (No. 154); rub through a sieve 
and moisten with one quart of white broth (No. gg); season with a table- 
spoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper. Heat it while stirring con- 
tinually, and serve with half a cupful of cream beaten with two egg yolks. 

86. Cream of Celery & I'Espagnole. Put two stalks of celery, cut into 
fine strips, in a covered saucepan, with one ounce of butter; add a pint of 
good broth (No. gg), with half a. tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of 
pepper. Boil for thirty minutes ; then rub through a sieve,, moisten 
with one quart of broth, and before serving thicken with two egg yolks 
diluted in half a cupful of cold consommfe (No. 100). Add three table- 
spoonfuls of boiled rice, and, two minutes before serving, one ounce of 
butter. After the egg yolks have been added to the soup it should not be 
allowed to boil again. 

87. Cream of Lettuce.  ^Wash thoroughly the green leaves of three 
good-sized heads of lettuce ; drain- and chop ' them up ; place them in a 
saucepan with a quarter of a pound of butter, and cook for five minutes, 
stirring it lightly. Moisten with two quarts of white broth (No. 99); 
season with a tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, and half a 
teaspoonful of grated nutmeg; add a bouquet (No. 254), and four ounces 
of well-cleaned, raw rice; cover the saucepan, and cook for forty-five 
minutes. Remove the bouquet and strain the soup through a fine Sieve. 
Clean the saucepan well, replace the cream in it, and let it heat thoroughly, 
but do not let it boil, meanwhile stirring it gently with the spatula. Pour 
in a pint of sweet cream, stir a little more, and throw it into a hot soup 
tureen, serving it with croutons souffles (No. 134). 

88. Cream of Lentils k la Major-domo.  Soak one pint of lentils for 
four hours in cold water; then put them on to boil in a saucepan, with two 



SOUPS. 



163 



quarts of water, one carrot, one onion, two ounces of salt pork, six whole 
peppers, a bouquet (No. 254), and the bones of one partridge; also half a 
tablespoonful of salt. Cook for forty-five minutes, then rub through a sieve ; 
cut half the breast of a partridge in slices, lay them in the soup-tureen 
with an ounce of butter, pour the purfee over, and serve with a handful of 
fried sippets of bread, suppressing the bouquet. 

89. Pur^e of Partridge il la Destaing.  Pound in a mortar the bones 
of a' partridge, and half a. pint of purge of chestnuts (No. 131). Put the 
whole into a saucepan, and moisten with three pints of white broth (No. 
gg), one ounce of butter, and half a tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoon- 
ful of pepper. Boil for forty-five minutes ; then rub through a wire sieve, 
adding about an ounce more butter and three tablespoonfuls of cooked 
rice just before serving. 

90. Pur6e of Partridge ^laGentilhomme. Pound well the bones of 
one of any kind of game, place them in a saucepan, add. half a pint of purfee 
of lentils with three pints of white broth (No. gg), half a tablespoonful of 
salt and a teaspoonful of pepper, and one ounce of butter. Boil forty-five 
minutes, then rub through a fine sieve, stir well while on the fire, not let- 
ting it come to a boil, and finish with one ounce of fresh butter. Serve 
with twelve small game quenelles (No. 228). 

91. Pnr^e of Chestnuts & la Jardiniere.  Place in a saucepan one pint 
of purge of chestnuts (No. 131), moisten it with one pint of white broth 
(No. gg) and a glassful of Madeira wine; boil for thirty minutes, then put 
in a quarter of a carrot, the same of turnip cut with a tin tube, a table- 
spoonful of asparagus-tops, six Brussels sprouts, and a piece of cut-up 
cauliflower the size of an egg. Boil all together for fifteen minutes, and 
serve after seasoning with half a tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of 
pepper. 

92. Pur^e of Beans Soubise.  After soaking a pint'of white beans for 
four hours , cook them in a saucepan with one ounce of butter and two 
sliced onions, and moisten with three pints of white broth (No. gg); season 
with half a tablespoonful of salt . and a teaspoonful of pepper. Boil for 
forty-five minutes; then rub through a fine sieve, and serve with a thicken- 
ing of two egg yolks and half a cupful of cream. Add twelve quenelles 
to the soup (No. 231), and serve. 

93. Fota^e k la DiplomatO.  Blanch a beef palate for two minutes in 
boiling water, then scrape it well, drain, cook again for one hour, and then 
cut it up in dice shape. Place it in a stewpan with one pint of consoramg 
(No. 100), half a glassful of Madeira wine, and half a pinch each of salt 
and pepper; pour the liquid over and cook for thirty minutes. Now pre- 
pare, in another saucepan, one quart of a stock such as clear green turtle 
(No. 18), add the beef palates, and twelve chicken quenelles or forcemeat 
balls (No. 226) and serve. 

94. Potage h la Windsor.  Boil for one hour, in two quarts of white 
broth (No. gg) and one quart of water, three calf's feet; when done, bone 
and cut them into pieces (they are preferable if cold); moisten with three 
pints of their own broth, adding a bouquet (No. 254), half a glassful of 



164 THE TABLE. 



Madeira wine, half a tablespoonful of salt, and a very little cayenne pep- 
per. Boil again for ten minutes, then strain through a fine sieve, cfarken 
the soup with a little essence of caramel, and when serving add twelve 
crawfish quenelles (No. 227). 

95. Fotage h, la McDonald.  Pound a cooked calf's brain in a mortar; 
add two cooked onions, three raw egg yolks, and a teaspoonful of curry 
powder; rub well through a fine sieve, and when ready to serve pour it 
into three pints of white broth (No. gg) in the saucepan, adding a peeled 
and baked cucumber cut in slices. Then serve. 

96. Fotage Si la D'Orsny.  Place in a saucepan a pint of b6chamel 
(No. 1 54). One pint of white broth ( No. gg), half a tablespoonful of salt and 
a teaspoonful of pepper, and let simmer on the corner of the fire for 
fifteen minutes. Add to this half a pint of cream of asparagus (No. 70) 
and one ounce of butter; when finished boiling, put in the tureen six soft- 
boiled and well-pared pigeon eggs, and the breast of one pigeon cut in 
julienne; pour the soup over, and serve. 

97. Fotage Montmorency.  Add to one quart of boiling consomme 
(No. 100), in a saucepan, half a cupful of noodles (No. 1182) previously 
blanched in salted water; thicken with the yolks of two beaten eggs, a 
tablespoonful of grated Parrnesan cheese, half a cupful of cream, and one 
ounce of butter; pour into the tureen, adding either the minced leg or 
wing of a cooked chicken, and serve with three heads of baked lettuce 
cut in two, on a separate dish. 

98. Fotage of Bice k la Maintenon.  Take one quart of white broth 
No. gg), one pint of bechamel (No. 154), half a tablespoonful of salt and 

a teaspoonful of pepper, and add to it half a raw chicken; cook for twenty 
minutes in the saucepan on the fife, then t^ke the chicken out and thicken 
the soup with the yolks of two beaten eggs, and a teaspoonful of pow- 
dered curry, mixed with half a cupful of cream ; rub all through a fine sieve, 
and serve, adding two tablespoonfuls of boiled rice, and the breast of the 
half chicken previously cooked in the soup, and cut into small pieces. 

99. Bouillon Blanc white broth. Place in a large stoek-urn on a 
moderate fire a g;bod heavy knuckle of a fine white veal with all the debris, 
or scraps of meat, including bones, remaining in the kitchen (but not of 
game); cover fully with cold water, adding a handful of salt; and as 
it comes to a boil, be very careful to skim all the scum off  no particle of 
scum should be left on  and then put in two large, sound, well-scraped 
carrots (whole), one whole, cleaned, sound turnip, one whole, peeled, large, 
sound onion, one well-cleaned parsley root, three thoroughly washed leeks, 
and a few leaves of cleaned celery. Boil very slowly for six hours on 
the corner of the range; keenly skim the grease off; then strain well 
through a wet cloth into a dhina bowl or a stone jar, and put it away in a 
cool place for general use. 

100. Consomm^ pare Consomm^ plain.  Chop up a shin of beef of 

twelve pounds, using a machine if practicable; put it in a large soup kettle 
with two sound, well-scraped, good-sized carrots, two peeled, sound 
onions, three well-washed and pared leeks, a few branches of celery, and 



SOUPS. 165 

one bunch of parsley roots, all well-scraped, washed, and shred, six 
cloves, eighteen whole peppers, a bay-leaf, and the whites of six raw eggs, 
including their shells. Mix all well together, and then moisten with two 
gallons of cold white broth (No. 99), one quart of cold water (all this 
should be done before the soup-kettle has been placed on the hot range). 
Stir thoroughly for two or three minutes without ceasing; and then place 
it on the hot range, add some debris of chicken if any at hand. Boil 
slowly for about four hours, skim the grease off thoroughly, and then 
strain through a wet cloth into a china bowl or stone jar, and put away in 
a cool place for general use. Should the white broth that you employ be 
hot, replace the cold water by a piece of ice well cracked, and the equiva- 
lent of a quart of water, adding it to the consommfe very gradually at the 
beginning, but continually increasing, and stirring till all added. (Always 
taste if suflBciently seasoned before serving). 

101. Consomm^ DnbOUrg.  Cut half a pint of royal (No. 107) into 
pieces; put three tablespoonfuls of cooked rice into a soup-tureen, and 
pour three pints of boiling consomm6 over it, and serve. 

102. Consonim^ Massena.  Add half a glassful of Madeira wine and a 
bouquet (No. 254) to three pints of game-stock (No. 219), and boil well 
together for two hours. Have ready three tablespoonfuls of pur6e of 
chestnuts (No. 131), mixing in three egg yolks, adding a very little salt and 
the same of pepper. Take six small timbale-molds, butter them well, 
and fill them with the above preparation. Poach them for two minutes; 
take them out, and let them get cool before unmolding them. Put them 
in a soup-tureen and serve, adding the boiling game-stock. 

103. Consomm^ aux Pdtes.  When one quart of consomm6 is boiling 
very hard, add three-quarters of a cupful. of paste, such as vermicelli or 
any other Italian paste; let them cook for six minutes, stirring frequently; 
then serve. (Pastes such as macaroni, rice, spaghetti, noodles &c., must 
first be parboiled, and, when necessary, broken into pieces before being 
added to the soup.) 

104. Consomm^ k la Semonle, or Tapioca.  Into one quart of boiling 
consommS (No. 100), sprinkle four tablespoonfuls of semolina, or tapioca, 
stirring constantly; boil thoroughly for ten minutes, and skim the surface 
just previous to serving. 

105. Consomm^ Tapioca or Semoule k la Creme.  The same as for 
No. 104, adding to the tureen a thickening of two egg yolks with half a 
cupful of cream when ready to serve. 

106. Consomm^ & la SCTlgne.  With chicKen forcemeat (No. 226) fill 
six very small timbale-molds; let them poach for two minutes in hot 
water, then set them aside to cool, turn them out, and put them into the 
tureen with two tablespoonfuls of cooked asparagus-tops, and two table- 
spoonfuls of cooked green peas; pour over it one quart of boiling con- 
somm6 (No. 100), and serve. 

107. Consomm^ BoyaL  Take six egg yolks and two whole eggs, half 
a teaspoonful of nutmeg, half a tablespoonful of salt, and a scant teaspoon- 
ful of cayenne pepper; beat well tCgether in a bowl, adding half a pint of 



1 66 THE TABLE. 



cream; strain through a fine hair sieve and fill up six small timbale- 
molds, being careful that they are previously well buttered. Cook them 
in a stewpan with boiling water to half their height; then place them in 
the oven until they become firip, which will take about fifteen minutes; 
immediately after taking them from their moulds, cut them in slices, and 
add them to one quart of boiling consommfe (No. loo) when ready to serve 
in a tureen. 

108. Con8omm6 Deslignac.  Make a royal consommS for three tim- 
bales (No. 107), but instead of cream use consommfe; unmold, cut thenf 
dice-shaped, and put them in the tureen with half a cupful of cooked 
printanier (No. 109) and one quart of boiling hot consommfe (No. 100); 
then serve. , 

109. Consomm^ Pl'lntanier.  Cut out, with a vegetable scoop, two 
carrots and one turnip; simmer them for twenty minutes in water and 
with a tablespoonful of salt, then drain and throw them into a quart of 
consomm6 (No. 100) in a saucepan with two tablespoonfuls of cooked 
green peas, and two tablespoonfuls of cooked string beans cut into small 
pieces. Add a handful of chiffonade (No. 132), cook five minutes more, 
and serve in a hot tureen. 

110. Consomin^ k la D'Orleaus.  Add a little crawfish butter (No. 
150) to eight fish quenelles; fill six long-shaped quenelle molds with this 
and poach them in salted water for two minutes; drain, and after unmold- 
ing put them in a tureen with two tablespoonfuls of cooked green peas 
and as much boiled rice ; pour one quart of boiling consommfe (No. 100) 
over it, and serve. 

111. Consomm^ h, 1' Imperiale.  Place four tablespoonfuls of chicken 
forcemeat (No. 226) in a paper cornet; cut away the end of the cornet. 
Butter a pan, and with the contents of the cornet, m^ke eighteen round 
quenelles; put on top of each quenelle a small slice of truffle; poach thein 
lor two minutes in white broth (No. gg); then drain through a sieve, and 
serve in the tureen, after P9uring one quart of consomm6 (No. 100) over 
them and adding a tablespoonful of cooked green peas and six cock's 
combs. 

112. Consomm^ GaribaldL  Proceed the same'as for No. 107; have 
two greet! timbales, two red ones; use a very little carmine Broton, then 
use two more plain timbales, and serve. 

118. Consomme Princesse.  Wash well three tablespoonfuls of bar- 
ley, drain, and place it in a saucepan with three pints of consommfe (No. 
100), and let boil for forty minutes. Add two tablespoonfuls of cooked 
breast of chicken cut in dice, two tablespoonfuls of cooked green peas, and 
serve in a hot tureen. 

114. Consomm^ Douglas.  Pare and blanch for ten minutes half a root 
of celery as for a julifenne (No. 27); then place it in a saucepan, adding two 
tablespoonfuls of boiled rice, half an ounce of smoked, cooked tongue, and 
six mushrooms, both shred very small; pour one quart of hot consomm6 
(No. 100) over it and serve. 

115. Cousomm^ Kenaissance. With two ounces of pit^-^-chou (No. 



SOUPS. 167 



1240) make ahandful of croutons, the size of the little finger; cook them on a 
tin dish in the oven for ten minutes, and when done fill them inside with 
chicken forcemeat (No. 226) pressed through a cornet. Put them in a 
tureen with two tablespoonfuls of cooked peas, and two spoonfuls of sliced 
mushrooms; pour one quart of consommfi (No. 100) over them, and 
serve. 

116. Consomm^ ik I'Africaine.  Cut one cooked artichoke bottom dice- 
shaped, also one slice of fried egg-plant cut in pieces; drain them on a 
cloth to remove all the fat, then add two tablespoonfuls of cooked rice, 
and a teaspoonful of powdered curry diluted in water; put these in a soup 
tureen with one quart of consommfe (No. 100) poured over them, and 
serve. 

117. ConSOmm^ k I'Andalonse.  Boil three tablespoonfuls of tapioca in 
one quart of consomm6 (No. lOo);- add half a pint of thin tomato sauce (No. 
205), boil for ten minutes, and serve with twelve small quenelles of godi- 
veau. (No. 221). 

118. Consomm^ Celestine.  Make two light French pancakes (No. 1186) 
cover one with chicken forcemeat (No. 226), and sprinkle over it a little 
grated Parmesan cheese; then put the other one on top, and cut them in 
twelve slices with a tube, and serve in one quart of boiling consommfe 
(No. 100) in a hot tureen. 

119. Consomm^ h, I'Anglaise.  Add half a cupful of minced cooked 
chicken, and three tablespoonfuls of cooked green peas to one quart of boil- 
ing consomme (No. 100), and serve in a hot tureen. 

120. Consomm^ Colbert.  Add six poached eggs (No. 404) to one 
quart of boiling consomm^ (No. 100) before serving. 

121. Consommi Printanier Colbert.  The same as for the above, 
adding half a pint of cooked printanier (No. 51). 

122. Consommi SnMOise.  Cut three rolls in halves, and take out the 
crumbs; make a preparation, cutting up together one carrot, half a turnip, 
one leaf of a white cabbage, two tablespoonfuls of peas, and one table- 
spoonful of string beans; add one ounce of butter, half a tablespoonful of 
salt, and very little pepper. Leave it very thick, and cook for twenty 
minutes in a saucepan, adding two tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan 
cheese. Fill the rolls with this mixture, and sprinkle the tops with more 
cheese and a few drops of drawn butter; place them in the oven for two 
minutes, and serve with three pints of consomm6 (No. 100) in a hot soup- 
tureen. 

123. Consommi Kachel. Decorate the bottom and sides of twelve 
quenelle molds with sliced truffles, and the same of smoked cooked 
tongue, being careful to have them well buttered. Fill them with chicken 
forcemeat (No. 226); poach them in salted water for two minutes, un- 
mold, and serve with one quart of boiling consomm6 (No. 100) in the hot 
tureen. 

124. Consommi Printanier Koyale. Add to one quart of boiling con- 
somrafe (No. 100) three royals (No. 107) cut into pieces, also half a pint of 
cooked printanier (No. 51), and serve. 



1 68 THE TABLE. 



125. Con80min4 Duchesse.  Butter and cover a tin plate with two 
ounces of p3.t6-&-chou (No. 1240), about the height of a quarter of an 
inch. Cook it^ in the oven for six minutes, then remove; and fill it with 
forcemeat (No. 226) pressed through a cornet; cut it with a paste cutter 
into twelve equal-sized pieces, put them in the tureen, pour one quart of 
boiling consommfi (No. 100) over them, and serve. 

126. Consomm^ Fatti.  Cut half a breast of a cooked chicken into 
small pieces; put them in a tureen, adding two tablespoonfuls of boiled 
rice, two tablespoonfuls of cooked green peas, and one truffle cut dice- 
shaped. Pour one quart of boiling consomrafe (No. 100) over it, and serve 
with grated cheese separate. 

127. Consomm^ Napolitaine.  Cut two ounces of cooked spaghetti 
into pieces, adding half an ounce of cut-up, cooked tongue, half an ounce 
of lean, cooked ham, and three mushrooms cut into small pieces. Pour all 
into a tureen with one quart of consomm6 (No. 100), and serve with grated 
cheese separate. 

128. ConsommS Chatelaine.  Take three molds. Add to the four 
whites of well-beaten eggs half a pint of pur6e of onions (Soubise No. 
250), and a quarter of a pint of cream; beat well together with a very little 
grated nutmeg, and half a tablespoonful of salt. Fill the molds, previ- 
ously well buttered; then poach them in water to half their height for six 
minutes, and unmold. Cut them into twelve pieces, and put them in the 
soup-tureen, adding two tablespoonfuls of cooked asparagus-tops, and the 
same quantity of green peas. Pour one quart of consommfe (No. 100) over 
it, and serve very hot. 

129. Consomm^ aux Quenelles.  Have ready eighteen smaU godiveau 
quenelles (No. 221). Arrange them in a well-buttered stewpan, being 
careful they do not touch each other ; pour some salted water over them , and 
let them poach for two minutes. Drain on a perfectly dry sieve, and put 
them in the tureen with oiie quart of boiling consommfe (No. 160), and 
serve. 

130. Onion Soup.  Brown two onions in a saucepan with one ounce of 
butter, stir in a little flour, and moisten with three pints of white broth 
(No. 99); season with half a tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of 
pepper, and cook for ten minutes. Place six pieces of toasted bread in a 
bowl; cover them with fine slices of Swiss cheese, pour the broth over 
them, add a few more slices of cheese on top, and put it in the oven five 
minutes before serving. 

131. Pure^ of Chestnuts.  Boil one pound of chestnuts for ten min- 
utes; peel and skin them immediately, put them in a saucepan with one 
quart of white broth (No. 99), a tablespoonful of salt, and two teaspoon- 
fuls of pepper and a quarter' of a. pound of butter. Let all boil well for 
thirty minutes; rub through a sieve, and use when needed. 

132. Chiffonade for Soups. Chop well together half a head of lettuce, 
half a handful of sorrel, a few branches of chervil, and a little parsley. 
Use it in soups five minutes before serving. 

133. Crofitons for Soups.  Cut some dice-shaped pieces of bread, and 



STOCirs, SAUCES, FORCEMEATS, GARNISmNGS. 1 69 

fry them in a pan with clarified butter; when a rich golden color, drain, 
and add to the soup when needed. 

133^. CroAtODS for Garnishing. Cut six rather thin slices out of an 
American loaf of bread; neatly pare, then cut them into heart-shaped crou- 
tons. Lay them on a tin plate, drip a little clarified butter over them, 
place in the hot oven for four minutes, to let get a good golden color. Take 
from out the oven, and use when required. 

134. Crofttons Souffles.  Make some p^tfe-a-chou (No. 1240), spread 
it out to the thickness of macaroni, and cut with a knife the size of a pea. 
Put them in a si^ve, sprinkle with flour, shake well, and fry in hot lard; 
when done, which will take five minutes, drain through a cloth, and serve 
with the soup when needed. 

A pinch of salt represents 205 grains, or a tablespoonful. 

Half a pinch of pepper represents 38 grains, or a teaspoonful. 

A third of a pinch of nutmeg represents 13 grains, or half a tea- 
spoonful. 



STOCKS, SAUCES, FORCEMEATS, 
AND GARNISHINGS. 



135. White-Ronx.  Put in a saucepan two ounces of butter, and place 
it on the corner of the hot range, add to it two tablespoonfuls of flour; 
keep stirring constantly for seven minutes. Then let it cool, and when 
cold, use in various sauces, as directed. 

136. Brown-Ronx.  Place two ounces of good butter in a saucepan 
on the hot range; mix in two tablespoortfuls of flour, and cook rapidly for 
about seven minutes, or until it assumes a rich brown color. Let it 
thoroughly eool off, and then use in different sauces, as mentioned. 

137. WUte Stock  for one gallon.  Reduce in saucepan on the hot 
range, one ounce of very good, finely Shred, salt pork, previously well 
washed, and the same of beef suet. Add one carrot, one onion, a bouquet 
of aromatic herbs (No. 254), twelve whole peppers, and four cloves. 
Brown these well on a moderate fire for four minutes. Add four ounces 
of flour; stir well, and moisten with a glassful of white wine and three 
quarts of white broth (No. gg). Add one tablespoonful of salt, and stir 
until it comes to a boil; then let it cook thoroughly for one hour; strain 
through a fine sieve. This stock should be used without any further 
thickening. 

138. Mirepoix.  Stew in a saucepan two ounces of fat, two carrots, one 
onion, one sprig of thyme, one bay-leaf, six whole peppers, three cloves, 
and, if handy, a ham bone cut into pieces. Add two sprigs of celery and 
half a bunch of parsley roots; cook for fifteen minutes, and use when 



170 THE TABLE. 



directed in other recipes. Scraps of baked veal may also be added, if at 
hand. 

139. Marinade Stock, cooked for one gallon. Stew together a finely 
sliced sound onion and four parsley roots, adding one pint of vinegar and 
four quarts of fresh water, also a quarter of a bunch of thyme, six bay- 
leaves, twenty-four whole peppers, and twelve cloves; Cook well for 
thirty minutes on a brisk fire, then place in a stone jar, and keep it in a 
cool place for general use. 

140. Marinade Stoct, raw for six persons. Finely slice one 
medium-sized, sound, peeled onion, place it in an earthen crock, with 
three slices of lemon, two bay-leaves, twelve whole peppers, four cloves, 
three whole mace, and three sprigs of parsley roots. Add to these two 
tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, a cupful of vinegar, and a pinch of salt. Place 
the meat or fish in this, and leave it to souse as long as necessary, or 
about six hours. 

141. Meat Glaze  Glace de Yiande.  As this meat glaze, when prop- 
erly made, will keep in perfect condition for any length of time, I woulc} 
advise that half a pint be made at a time, in the following manner. Place 
in a large saucepan ten quarts of white broth (No. gg), or nine quarts of 
consomm6 (No. 100), and reduce it on a moderate fire for fully four hours, 
at which time it should be reduced to half a pint. Transfer it in a stone 
jar or bowl; put a cover on, and keep in a cool place for general use. 

142. Court Bouillon.  Cut up one good-sized, peeled'and well-washed 
carrot, with a sound onion, and half a bunch of parsley roots, also cut up; 
brown them in a glassful of white or red wine, according to the fish; add 
to it any well-washed pieces of fish-heads and a pint of water. Season 
with half a pinch each of salt and pepper. Boil well for five minutes; let 
cool; strain through a napkin or a sieve into a jar, and use when needed. 
Always avoid straining anything acid into tin or copper vessels  to pre- 
vent blackening. 

143. Cooked Fine Herbs.  Chop up one sound onion and two well- 
peeled shallots ; brown them in a saucepan with one ounce of butter, for 
five minutes, then add double the quantity of finely minced mushrooms 
and a grain of garlic ; season with half a tablespoonf ul of salt and a tea- 
spoonful of pepper, and finish with a tablespoonf ul of chopped parsley. 
Cook ten minutes longer, and then let it cool. 

144. Raw Fine Herbs.  Chop separately ^half an onion, two shallots, 
two sprigs of parsley, four hairs of chives^ and the same of chervil; mix 
thoroughly before using. 

146. Batter, niaitre d'hdtel.  Put one ounce of good butter in a 
bowl with a teaspoonful of very finely chopped parsley, adding the juice 
of half a sound lemon. Mingle well with a very little nutmeg, and keep 
it in a cool place to use when needed. 

146. Anchovy Batter.  To one ounce of good butter, add one tea- 
spoonful of anchovy essence; mix well, and keep it on ice  for general use. 

147. Batter k la Ravigote.  Pound together in a. mortar one sprig of 
parsley, the same of tarragon, very little chives, the same of chervil, and 



STOCAS, SAUCES, FORCEMEATS, GARNISHINGS. I/I 

one small, peeled shallot. Add half a teasponful of anchovy essence, one 
ounce of good butter, and half a drop of spinach-green. Rub through a 
fine sieve, and keep it in a cool place for general use. 

148. Horseradish Butter. Pound in a mortar one teaspoonful of 
grated horseradish with one ounce of good butter, and season with very 
little red pepper  third of a saltspoonful. Rub through a fine sieve, and 
keep it in a cool place. When this butter is added to other sauces, it 
should not boil again. 

149. Lobster Batter.  Extract the coral from one cooked lobster (the 
eggs may be used instead); pound it in a mortar to a paste, mixing it with 
one ounce of good butter and a teaspoonful of mustard. Rub through u 
fine sieve, and keep in a cool place. The butter can also be used for 
coloring purposes. 

150. Crawfish Butter.  Pick the meat from the tails of twelve boiled 
crawfish; dry the shells, and pound them all together in a mortar, adding 
one ounce of good butter; then place it in a saucepan on a moderate fire, 
stirring, until it clarifies, for about five minutes; then strain through a 
napkin, letting it drop into cold water. When it is congealed, take it out, 
and place it in a warm basin, stirring until it assumes the desired color. 
Xhe same method can be used for lobsters and shrimps. 

151. Sauce Espagpnole  ^for one gallon.  Mixonepint of raw, strong 
mirepoix (No. 138) with two ounces of good fat (chicken's fat is preferable). 
Mix with the compound four ounces of flour, and moisten with one gallon 
of white broth (No. 99). Stir well, and then add, if handy, some baked 
veal and ham bones. Boil for three hours, and then remove the fat very 
carefully; rub the sauce through a very fine sieve, and keep it for many 
purposes in cooking. 

152. Sauce Telout^.  Melt one ounce of good butter in a saucepan, 
adding two tablespoonfuls of flour, and stir well, not letting it get brown. 
Moisten with a pint and a half of good veal and chicken stock, the stronger 
the better. Throw in a garnished bouquet (No. 254), half o. cupful of 
mushroom liquor, if at hand, six whole peppers, half a pinch of salt, and 
a very little nutmeg. Boil for twenty minutes, stirring continuously with 
a wooden spatula; then remove to the side of the fire, skim thoroughly, 
and let It continue simmering slowly for one hour. Then rub through a 
fine sieve. This sauce will make the foundation for any kind of good 
white stock. 

153. Sauce Villeroi.  Strain and place in a saucepan with one ounce 
of butter, two tablespcSonfuls of raw mirepoix (No. 138), adding two table- 
spoonfuls of flour. Cook, and mix well together for five minutes ; moisten 
with three pints of white broth (No. gg), and season with half a table- 
spoonful of salt. Boil for one hour; then strain through a fine sieve and 
use when needed. 

154. Bechamel Sauce.  Place in a saucepan two ounces of butter, add 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, and stir constantly for five minutes. Moisten 
with a pint and a half of boiling milk, being careful to pour it in gradually; 
then beat it well with a whisk. Add half a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, 



172 



THE TABLE. 



a pinch of salt, a bouquet (No. 254), twelve whole peppers, and a little 
mushroom liquor, if at hand. Cook well for fifteen minutes, and when 
done rub through a fine sieve. 

155. Melted Butter Sance.  Put one ounce of good butter in a sauce- 
pan on a slow'fire, stir, and when melted add the juice of half a lemon. 
Serve in a sauce bowl. 

156. Nnt-brown Butter Sance.  Place one ounce of good butter in a 
frying-pan, let it heat until it assumes a nut-brown color, then add one 
drop of vinegar, and use when needed. ' 

157. Black Butter Sauce.  Warm one ounce of good butter in the fry- 
ing-pan until it becomes brown ; add six parsley leaves, heat again for one 
minute, then throw in five drops of vinegar. Pour it into a sauce-bowl 
and serve. 

158. Lobster Sance.  Pour one pint of HoUandaise sauce (No. 160) 
into a saucepan ; place it on the hot stove, but do not allow it to boil. 
Add the claw of a good-sized boiled lobster cut into lozenge-shaped pieces; 
heat well for five minutes, stirring it lightly, add a quarter of an ounce of 
lobster butter (No. 149), and serve when needed. 

159. Drawn-Butter Sance.  Put two ounces of butter in a sauce- 
pan, adding two tablespoonfuls of flour while stirring ; moisten with one 
quart of water, and season with one tablespoonful of salt and half a tea- 
spoonful of pepper. Let it simmer on the side of the stove for thirty 
minutes until it thickens ; then add, little by little, half an ounce of 
butter, beating it continuously until it becomes perfectly white. Squeeze 
in the juice of a lemon ; stir once more, strain through a hair sieve 
and serve. 

160. Sauce HoUandaise.  Place one sound, sliced onion, six whole 
peppers and a bay-leaf in a saucepan with two ounces of good butter on 
the hot stove ; stir in two tablespoonfuls of flour to thicken, then moisten 
with a pint and a half of either chickerr or white broth (No. gg); mix well 
with a whisk or wooden spatula, being careful to remove any accumulated 
fat. Add half a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg and half a tablespoonful of , 
salt, and cook for twenty-five minutfes. Beat the yolks of three eggs 
separately with the juice of half a medium-sized sound lemon. Pour them 
gradually into the sauce, being careful not to boil it again after they^have 
been added. Rub through a hair sieve into a serving bowl, and finish 
with half an ounce of good- butter, mixing it well, and serve. 

161. Egg Sauce.  Use one pint of the HoUandaise sauce (No. 160), 
and when ready to serve sprinkle it with two chopped hard-boiled eggs 
and a teaspoonful of minced parsley. 

162. Bread Sance.  Crumble one and a half ounces of fresh bread 
crumbs, and place them in a saucepan with not quite half a cupful of cold 
water ; add half an ounce of butter, half a tablespoonful of salt, apd six 
whole peppers. Cook for five minutes ; then pour in half a. cupful of 
cream or milk. Cook again for five minutes, and serve in a sauce-bowl, 
removing the peppers. , 

163. Anchoyy Sance.  To three-quarters of a. pint of drawn-butter 



STOCKS, SAUCES, FORCEMEATS, GAKNJSfflNGS. I 73 

sauce (No. 159), or HoUandaise sauce (No. 160), add one tablespoonful of 
anchovy essence ; beat well together and serve. 

164. Horseradish Sance. Add two tablespoonfuls of grated horse- 
radish to three-quarters of a pint of b6chamel sauce (No. 154); also half a 
pinch of powdered sugar, a third of a pinch of cayenne pepper, and half a 
pinch of salt. Boil for five minutes. Should the sauce be too thick add 
a little cream or milk, and three drops of vinegar in case the horseradish 
be fresh. 

165. Sance Fercillade.  Pour half a cupful of sweet oil into an 
earthen bowl with the juice of half a lemon, half a tablespoonful of salt, 
and a scant teaspoonful of pepper. ^ Beat well with a spoon or whisk, 
adding one teaspoonful of parsley, half the quantity of chervil, the same 
of tarragon and chives all chopped very fine together, and a teaspoonful of 
mustard. Mix the whole well before serving. 

166. Sance B^arnaise.  Chop very fine two medium-sized, sound, 
well-peeled shallots ; place them in a small saucepan on the hot range , 
with two tablespoonfuls of either tarragon or chervil vinegar, and five 
whole crushed peppers. Reduce until nearly dry, then put away to cool. 
Mingle with it six fresh raw egg yolks, sharply stirring meanwhile, then 
gradually add one and a half ounce of good fresh butter ; seasoning with 
half a tablespoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, and 
twelve finely chopped sound tarragon leaves. Have a much wider pan on 
the fire with boiling water, place the small one containing the ingredients 
into the other, and see that the boiling water reaches up to half its height; 
thoroughly heat up, beating briskly with the whisk; when the sauce is firm 
add one teaspoonful of melted meat-glaze (No. 141), beat lightly for two 
seconds longer, then strain through an ordinary, clean kitchen towe4, 
neatly arrange the sauce on a hot dish to be sent to the table ; and dress 
over it any article required to be served. 

167. Sance Trianon.  The same as for Bfearnaise sauce (No. 166), but 
pour the sauce over the article to be served, instead of under ; finish with 
two medium-sized sliced truffles, nicely arranged on top. 

168. Apple Sance.  Core, peel and quarter four sour apples. Place 
them in a saucepan with half a glassful of water, half a tablespoonful of 
salt, and two ounces of sugar. Cover and cook for about twenty-five 
minutes, or until the apples are reduced to a marmalade ; then strain 
through a colander, and add the third of a pinch of cinnamon, if necessary. 

169. Mint Sance. Take one-quarter of a bunch of finely minced mint- 
leaves, moistening with half a cupful of water and half a cupful of broth 
(No. 99), or consomm6 (No. 100); add four tablespoonfuls of vinegar, a 
tablespoonful of salt, and half an ounce of sugar ; stir well and serve in a 
sauce-bowl. 

170. Oreen Sance. Pound in a mortar one sprig of parsley and three 
hairs of chervil ; add three medium-sized vinegar-pickles, half a small, 
white onion, one anchovy, and a teaspoonful of capers. Mix these with 
soaked bread the size of an egg, and pound all well together. When the 
preparation is reduced to a paste, rub it through a fine sieve, put it in a 



174 ^^^ TABLE. 



bowl and stir well, adding half a cupful of sweet oil, two tablespoonfuls 
of vinegEtr, half a teaspoonful of pepper, and half a tablespoonful of salt. 
This sauce must be consistent and ol a green color. 

171. Supreme Sance.  Clean thoroughly the carcass of one raw 
chicken and place it in a saucepan, covering it with water ; cook quickly, 
and at the first boil take it off, drain and wash the carcass well. Put it 
back into a very clean saucepan, covering it with one quart of white broth 
(No. gg), adding a bouquet (No. 254) and half a tablespoonful of salt. 
Cook for forty-five minutes ; have two tablespoonfuls of white roux (No. 
135) separate ; pour the broth over it, continuing to stir ; reduce to half, 
and strain through a fine Chinese strainer. Add half a cupful of good 
cream and an ounce of fresh butter, and finish with the juice of half a 
lemon. 

172. Tarragon Sance.  Put half a pint sauce velout^ (No. 152) to 
boil in a saucepan on the hot stove. Add half a cupful of white broth 
(No.'gg) and two sprigs of tarragon. Season with a very little salt, and 
cook for ten minutes. Cut up very fine, and add to the sauce when serv- 
ing twelve blanched tarragon leaves. 

173. Oyster Saude.  Open eighteen medium-sized, fine Shrewsbury 
oysters and put them in a saucepan with one ounce of good butter, pla- 
cing the pan on the stove. Cook for four minutes ; remove half the liquid 
from the pan and add a pint of hot AUemande sauce (No. 210). Then with 
the spatula mix lightly together without allowing it to boil, and serve. 

174. Indian Sance.  Brown in a saucepan one sliced onion, one ounce 
of raw lean ham, one sprig of thyme, and twelve whole peppers, with one 
ounce of butter. Add a teaspoonful of powdered curry diluted in a pint of 
sauce veloutfe (No. 152); boil for ten minutes. Then strain through a 
Chinese strainer into another saucepan, being careful to pour in half a 
cupful of cream, the juioe of half a lemon and two egg yolks. Then 
serve. 

175. Sance Nomiande,.for Fish. To a pint of sauce veIout6(No. 
152) add two tablespoonfuls of mushroom liquor. Reduce the sauce for 
ten minutes, and place in it two tablespoonfuls of fish-stock (No. 214). 
Let it just boil again, then add two egg yolks and the juice of half a 
lemon ; strain through a fine sieve and stir in half an ounce of fresh 
butter. This sauce should be consistent. 

no}i. Normande, garnishing for Meat.  Neatly peel and wash well 
twelve celery knobs, drain, and then place six of them in a saucepan with 
one tablespoonful of butter, one pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and a 
gill of white broth (No. gg), and cook for twenty minutes on a moderate 
fire ; then mash them as you would potatoes ; when thoroughly mashed 
place them in a warm place for further action. Take the other six celery 
knobs, cut out very carefully the centres with the aid of a vegetable 
scoop, leaving about half an inch uncut at the bottom to prevent burning. 
Season with one pinch of salt only, evenly divided. Stuff them with the 
above farce; then place them in a saucepan with half a medium-sized, 
sound, scraped and sliced carrot, half a peeled and sliced onion, and a table- 



STOCJCS, SAUCES, FORCEMEATS, GARNISHINGS. I 75 

spoonful of butter. Cook three minutes on a moderate fire. Add a wine- 
glassful of good cider and a gill of white broth (No. gg). Cook again for 
twenty minutes. Arrange the remaining mashed celery in the centre of 
the hot serving dish, place the meat over it, nicely surround the dish 
with the six stufied celery knobs, strain the gravy over, arranging a small 
piece of cooked cauliflower on top of each, and serve very hot. 

176. Sauce & la Toulouse.  To a pint of HoUandaise sauce (No. 160) 
add two tablespoonfuls of white wine, one sliced truffle, and six minced 
mushrooms. Heat well without boiling, and when serving add a little 
meat-glaze (No. 141). 

177. Sauce maitre d'hdtel, li^e.  Add to half a pint of warm Hol- 
landaise sauce (No. 160), a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, half an ounce 
of butter, a scant teaspoonful of pepper, and half a teaspoonful of nutmeg; 
then serve. 

178. Shrimp Sauce.  Place half an ounce of shrimp butter (No. 150) 
' in half a pint of HoUandaise sauce (No. 160) ; stir well on the fire for five 

minutes, and when ready to serve add twelve' picked shrimp tails and the 
juice of half a lemon. Heat without boiling, and serve. 

179. Sauce k la Tenitienne,  Reduce for four minutes one table- 
spoonful of tarragon-vinegar and chervil-vinegar with six whole peppers, 

. one ounce of lean cooked ham cut into small dice, six parsley tfcots, one 
sprig of thyme, and one bay-leaf. Then strain through a napkin into a 
bowl ; moisten with half a pint of sauce veloutfe (No. 152), and finish the 
sauce with twelve leaves of finely cut tarragon, two drops of spinach 
green, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 

180. Sauce ^ la Matelote.  Reduce for five minutes one glassful of 
good red wine with a bouquet (No. 254) and a small glassful of mushroom 
liquor ; then add half a pint of veloutfe (No. 152) and boil for five minutes. 
Strain, and then add the third of a tablespoonful of salt and a scant tea- 
spoonful of pepper, and throw in twelve small, cooked, glazed onions (No. 
972), four mushrooms cut into quarters, and one ounce of cooked salt pork 
cut in dice. Cook again for five minutes, and serve. 

181. Cream Sauce. Take half a pint of bfechamel sauce (No. 154) ; 
add half an ounce of butter, and beat them together carefully, adding half 
a cupful of sweet cream. Then serve. 

182. Sauce k I'Aurore. To half a pint of hot, highly seasoned bfecha- 
mel sauce (No. 154) in a saucepan add a small glassful of mushroom 
liquor, half an ounce of butter, and three tablespoonfuls of very red tomato 
sauce (No. 205). Stir well on the fire for five minutes, then add square 
cuts of six whole mushrooms, and serve. 

183. Sauce k la Duchesse. Cut up in small dice-shaped pieces half 
an ounce of cooked ham and two truffles, place these in a saucepan on the 
fire, with half a wine-glassful of white wine ; let reduce for three minutes 
on a brisk fire. Add one gill of good tomato sauce (No. 205). Boil for 
one minute with a tablespoonful of glace de viande (No. 141). Add half 
a pint of Allemande sauce (No. 210). Toss well while heating, but do 
not allow to boil again, and serve very hot. 



176 



THE TABLE. 



184. Sauce Princesse.  Take eighteen chicken quenelles, two truffles 
cut in slices, and one blanched chicken liver cut in dice shape ; place all 
in a saucepan on the fire with half a glassful of white wine, and let reduce 
for three minutes ; then add one tablespoonful of glace de viande (No. 
141), let come to a boil ; add half a pint of good AUemande sauce (No. 
210). Toss well together, but do not allow to boil, and serve very hot. 

185. Sance Demi-Glace, or Madeira.  Add, one small glassful of 
mushroom liquor to one pint of good Espagnole sauce (No. 151); also a 
small glassful of Madeira wine, a bouquet (No. 254), and a scant teaspoon- 
ful of pepper. Remove the fat carefully and cook for thirty minutes, 
leaving the sauce in a rather liquid state ; then .strain and use when 
needed. This takes the place of all Madeira sauces. 

186. Sance Bordelaise.  Chop up two shallots very fine ; put them 
with half a glassful of red wine in a saucepan- on the fire, reduce to half, 
and then add three-quarters of a pint of good Espagnole sauce (No. 151) 
and a scant teaspoonful of red pepper. Cook for twenty minutes, and 
before serving place eighteen round slices of blanched marron in the 
sauce. 

187. Sance h.la G^noise.  Strain about two tablespoonfuls of cooked 
mirepoix (No. 138), and moisten it with half a glassful of red wine; reduce 
to half%h the hot stove, then add half a pint of Espagnole (No. 151), two 
tablespoonfuls of white broth (No. 99), and a scant tablespoonful of 
pepper. Cook for ten minutes, then strain through a sieve ; put in half 
an ounce of good butter and a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce (No. 163), and 
serve. 

188. Sance Italienne.  Brown two medium-sized, fine, peeled, and 
chopped-up shallots in a saucepan with a quarter of an ounce of butter, 
adding half an ounce of cooked, lean ham cut into small dice shape, four 
minced mushrooms, one finely minced truffle, and a glassful of Madeira 
wine. Let all cook together for five minutes ; then add half a. pint of 
Espagnole sauce (No. 151) ; let it then come to a boil, and serve very hot. 

189. Sance Duxelle.  Reduce half a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 185) 
with half a glassful of white wine ; add to it twelve very finely chopped 
mushrooms, two shallots also chopped up and browned in a very little < 
butter for five minutes, and half an ounce of chopped, cooked beef-tongue. 
Boil again for five minutes and serve. 

190. Sauce Colbert.  Put in a saucepan half a pint of very thick 
Madeira sauce (No. 185); add to it very gradually one ounce of good, fresh 
butter, also two tablespoonfuls of meat-glaze (No. 141). Mix well together 
without boiling ; then squeeze in the juiee of half a sound lemon, and add 
one teaspoonful of chopped parsley when serving. 

191. Sauce Periguenx.  Chop up very fine two fine truffles ; place them 
in a sautoire with a glassful of Madeira wine. Reduce on the hot stove for 
five minutes. Add half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151). Just allow 
to come to a boil, and serve very hot. 

192. Sauce Robert.  Slice half an onion and fry it in a saucepan with 
half an ounce of butter and a teaspoonful of sugar until it is of a golden 



STOCICS, SAUCES, FORCEMEATS, GARNISHINGS. I'J'J 

color, or about five minutes ; then moisten with half a glassful of white 
wine and half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151). Boil for ten minutes ; 
then add a teaspoonful of dry English mustard, diluted in cold broth or 
gravy ; stir carefully, and finally rub through a hair sieve and serve. 

193. Sanoe Snlmi.  Place in a saucepan two tablespoonfuls of fumet 
of game (No. 213) with a half pint of Madeira sauce (No. 185) ; add two 
or three livers of any kind of game at hand, cut into small dice-shape 
pieces. Cook together on a moderate fire for ten minutes ; then strain 
through a colander; mix in the zest of a sound lemon just before serving. 

194. Sauce Poivrade.^Fry in half an ounce of butter half an onion 
and half a carrot, cut up, a sprig of thyme, one bay-leaf, six whole peppers, 
three cloves, a quarter of a bunch of parsley-roots, and half an ounce of 
raw ham cut in pieces. Cook it together for five minutes, then moisten 
with two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and a pint of Espagnole sauce \ No. 
151). Boil thoroughly for twenty minutes, then strain through a colander, 
being careful to remove every particle of grease. 

195. Sance Napolitaine.  Reduce in a saucepan two tablespoonfuls of 
raw mirepoix (No. 138) with half an ounce of butter ; after five minutes 
moisten with a small glassful of Madeira wine, half a pint of Espagnole 
sauce (No. 151), two tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce (No. 205^ and two 
tablespoonfuls of fumet of game (No. 218), if any on hand. Reduce for 
ten minutes, and rub through a sieve. 

196. Sance Hach6e.  Chop up very fine two shallots and fry them 
lightly in a saucepan with half an ounce of butter ; add a tablespoonful of 
capers and three small chopped vinegar-pickles, also a teaspoonful of 
vinegar. Reduce the sauce for ten minutes ; then moisten with half a 
pint of Espagnole sauce C151), adding a tablespoonful of cooked fine herbs 
(No. 143). Cook again for ten minutes, and serve. 

197. Sanee Cliassenr.  Reduce in a saucepan half a pint of Espagnole 
sauce (No. 151) with two tablespoonfuls of fumet of game (No. 218); after 
five minutes thicken it with two tablespoonfuls of hare's blood  the blood 
of any other kind of game will answer  mixed with six drops of vinegar. 
Do not let it boil after the blood is added to the sauce. 

198. Sance Diable.  Pour a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151) into a 
saucepan with a teaspoonful of dry mustard, diluted in two teaspoonfuls 
of Parisian sauce, adding a third of a saltspoonful of red pepper. Mix well 
together. Cook for five minutes and serve. 

199. Crapandine Sauce.  Place half a pint of light piquante sauce 
(No. 203) in a saucepan on the pre, add four chopped mushrooms, and a 
teaspoonful of dry mustard, diluted in two teaspoonfuls of tarragon- 
vinegar. Boil for five minutes and serve. 

200. Celery Sance.  Clean well, nicely pare, and cut into dice-shaped 
pieces, and then wash thoroughly in fresh water three roots of fine celery, 
using only the white parts. Lift theirl out with the hand, so that the sand 
and dirt remain at the bottom of the pan, and place them in a saucepan. 
Cover them with fresh water, adding two pinches of salt and half an 
ounce of butter. Put on the lid, and cook on the hot stove for twenty-five 

12 



178 THE TABLE. 



minutes. Drain, and place tlie celery in the saucepan again with a pint 
of hot Allemande sauce (No. 210) ; toss well for just a little while, and 
serve. 

201. Yinaigrette Sance.;  Chop up together very fine one shallot, two 
branches of parsley, the same of chervil and chives, and When very fine 
place them in a sauce-bowl with a tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of 
pepper, and three tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Stir all well together; then 
add four tablespoonfuls of good oil, mix well again, and serve. 

202. Mustard Sauce.  Dilute in a saucepan one tablespoonful of 
ground English mustard with a tablespoonful of tarragon-vinegar, and 
half the same quantity of Parisian sauce ; strain into this a pint of Espagn- 
ole sauce (No. 151), and place the pan on the hot stove. Beat contin- 
ually until thoroughly heated, then add a teaspoonful of Chopped parsley. 
This sauce must not .be allowed to boil. 

203. Sance Piqnante.  Place one onion chopped up very fine in a 
saucepan with half a cupful of vinegar ; reduce until almost dry, and then 
add one pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), one tablespoonful of capers, 
three small gherkins and three mushrooms, all finely chopped up together. 
Cook for ten minutes; season with the third of a tablespoonful of salt, and 
a scant teaspoonful of pepper, and serve. 

 204. Champagne Sance.  Place two cloves, six whole peppers, one 
bay-leaf, half a tablespoonful of powdered sugar in a saucepan with a good 
glassful of champagne ; place it on the fire, and reduce for five minutes. 
Then moisten with three-quarters of a pint of Espagnole sauce iNo. 151), 
and cook for fifteen minutes longer ; strain through a Chinese strainer, 
and serve. 

205. Tomato Sance.  Place two tablespoonfuls of raw mirepoix (No. 
138) in a saucepan with one ounce of butter ; cook on a moderate fire for 
five minutes, then add two tablespoonfuls of flour, brown all well. Select 
one quart of well-washed, ripe, sound, fresh tomatoes, cut them into 
quarters, and plunge them into the saucepan with the rest, stirring 
briskly with a wooden spoon until they boil. Season with a good pinch 
of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and half a teaspoonful of powdered sugar. 
Boil the whole for forty-five minutes, then strain through a. sieve 
into a vessel, and use- when needed. This ajiuce can also be made 
with canned tomatoes, in which case cook them for only thirty 
minutes. 

206. Sance Mayonnaise.  Place two fresh egg yolks into an earthen 
bowl, with half a teaspoonful of ground English mustard, half a pinch of 
salt, half a saltspoonful of red pepper ; sharply stir with a wooden spoon 
for two or three minutes without ceasing. Pour in, drop by drop, one 
and a half cupfuls of the best olive oil. Should it become too thick, add, 
drop by drop, the equivalent of a teaspoonful of very good vinegar, stir- , 
ring vigorously with the wooden spoon meanwhile. Taste, and if found 
a little too acid, gradually add a. tablespoonful of oil, stirring continually 
until all added. The whole operation .to prepare the above sauce will 
take from ten to twelve minutes. To avoid spoiling the sauce, the sweet 



STOCKS, SA UCES, FORCEMEA TS, GARNISHINGS. I 79 

oil should always be kept in a place of moderate temperature, say, from 
70 to 75 Fahrenheit. 

207. Sauce Tartare. Chop up one shallot exceedingly fine, with 
half a tablespoonful of chervil, and the same of tarragon, and twelve 
capers chopped exceedingly fine. Place these in an earthen bowl with 
half a teaspoonful of ground English mustard, two raw egg yolks, a tea- 
spoonful of vinegar (a small drop at a time), half a pinch of salt, and a 
third of a pinch of pepper. Pour in very lightly, while continuing to stir, 
a cupful of good olive oil, and if too thick, add a little more vinegar. 
Taste it to find whether the seasoning is correct ; if too salt, add a little 
more mustard and oil. 

208. Tictoria ^anee.  Pound one tablespoonful of lobster coral very 
fine with half an ounce of fresh butter. Then lay it aside. In three-quarters 
of a. pint of AUemande sauce (No. 210), place half a glassful of white 
wine and six chopped mushrooms ; let it warm thoroughly, without boil- 
ing, in a saucepan, and then mix in the lobster coral. Stir well, and serve. 
A few sliced truffles can be used, according to the quality of the 
dinner. 

209. Remonlade Sance.  Chop up very fine twelve capers, one shallot, 
three small vinegar-pickles, and add one-half a tablespoonful of chives, 
with one tablespoonful of parsley. Place them in a bowl with a whole 
raw egg, a teaspoonful of ground English mustard, half a pinch of salt, 
and half a pinch of pepper. Incorporate well together, adding four table- 
spoonfuls of oil and four of vinegar, but keep the sauce sufficiently liquid. 
Serve when required. 

210. Sauce Allemande.  Melt two ounces of butter in a saucepan on 
a slow fire, with three tablespoonfuls of flour to thicken. Stir well, not 
letting it brown; then moisten with one pint of white broth (No. 99), 
beating constantly, and cook for ten minutes. Dilute three egg yolks 
separately in a bowl ; pour the sauce over the eggs, a very little at a 
time ; strain through a Chinese strainer, and finish with half an ounce of 
good butter and the juc of half a lemon, taking care that it does not boil 
a second time. 

211. Prussian Sance.  Add to three-quarters of a pint of hot 
bechamel sauce (No. 154), a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, a scant tea- 
spoonful of red pepper, three tablespoonfuls of grated horseradish, and 
two tablespoonfuls of cold cream. Let it boil for four minutes, mean- 
while stirring it well, and use when needed. 

212. Sance Chambord.  Place one trufiie and three mushrooms, 
sliced very thin, in half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), adding three 
tablespoonfuls of Court bouillon (No. 142), six fish quenelles (No. 227), 
and twelve medium-sized, whole, blanched oysters. Cook slowly for five 
minutes, and serve. 

213. Sance Montglas.  Cut very carefully into small julienne-shaped 
pieces one ounce of cooked smoked beef tongue, one ounce of cooked chick- 
en, two truffles, and four mushrooms. Place all in a saucepan, with half a 
wineglassful of good Madeira wine ; place the pan on a brisk fire, and 



l8o I'HE TABLE. 



let reduce for three minutes. Then add half a pint of Espagnole sauce 
(No. 151), and one gill of good tomato sauce (No. 205). Let all cook for 
five minutes longer, and serve very hot. 

214. Cnisson de Poisson  Fish Broth. For One Gallon. Fill a 
saucepan with three quarts of water, a good handful of salt, half a glass- 
ful of vinegar, one carrot, and one onion (both sliced), half a handful of 
whole peppers, one bunch of parsley-roots, three sprigs of thyme, and 
three bay-leaves. Cook on a moderate fire for fifteen minutes. Cool, and 
use when needed for various methods of cooking fish. 

215. Dnxelle.  Reduce half a pint of cooked, fine herbs (No. 143) in 
a saucepan, with a quarter of a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 185), on a 
moderate stove for about ten minutes, when it will then be of a proper 
consistency and ready to serve. 

216. Clear Gravy  For One Gallon.  Place two carrots and one 

onion cut in slices in a saucepan, with two ounces of uncooked, sliced, salt 
pork, one sprig of thyme, two .bay-leavte's, and half a bunch of parsley- 
roots. Add any scraps of meat, such as shin-bone of veal or beef, or 
chicken giblets, and a handful of salt ; cover well, as if should not color, 
and moisten with one and a half gallons of water. Cook thoroughly for 
an hour and a half, then press through a napkin ; place it in a stone jar, 
and use it after carefully removing all the fat. 

217. Chicken Essence.  Press one quart of chicken broth through a 
napkin, and then reduce it in a saucepan until there remains only one-half 
3 pint, and use when needed. 

218. Fnmet of Game.  ^Pare and slice one sound carrot and half a 
medium-sized onion ; place them with half a sprig of thyme, one bay-leaf, 
a small piece of raw, lean ham, also cut up, and the carcass of any kind of 
raw game in a covered saucepan. Let them brown well ; add a glassful of 
Madeira wine, let it come to a boil ; then moisten with one quart of white 
broth (No. 99), or consommfe (No. 100) ; add a pinch of salt, twelve 
whole peppers. Cook well for forty-five minutes, then press through a 
napkin. 

219. Game Stock.  Place in a saucepan two game carcasses and one 
pint of mirepoix (No. 138) ; cover them with water, adding a pinch of salt. 
Cook for twenty minutes, and use when needed. 

220. Saasa^e Forcemeat.  Cut up one pound of fresh pork into 
small pieces, season it with one pinch of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, 
half a saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, and the same quantity of powdered 
thyme, and chop all up very fine. A quarter of a pound of lean, raw mea.t 
can be added if desired. Use when needed. 

221. Godiyeanx Forcemeat.  Remove the stringy tissue from half a 
pound of veal suet, pound it in a mortar ; take the same quantity of lean 
veal, chopped in the machine, a quarter of a pound of* very consistent 
pate-Sl-chou (No. 1240), omitting the eggs, and pound all together. Sea- 
son highly with a tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, and 
half a teaspoonful of nutmeg. Add four raw e.%^ yolks and two whole 
ones, and when well incorporated strain through a sieve, and put it on 



STOCKS, SAUCES, FORCEMEATS, GARNISHINGS. l8l 

ice to be used when required in other recipes. Poach it for three 
minutes before serving. 

This recipe can be prepared with poultry or game instead of veal. 

222. Lobster Forcemeat  Fry an onion, chopped very fine, in one 
ounce of good butter until it is of a golden brown color, adding one table- 
spoonful of flour to make a roux (No. 1 35). Moisten with half a pint of white 
stock (No. 137), stirring well and constantly until the sauce hardens. Sea- 
son with half a tablespoonful of salt, a scant teaspoonful of white pepper, 
the same of cayenne, one tablespoonful of English sauce, half a teaspoon- 
ful of mustard, a crushed grain of garlic, and one teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley. Stir well, adding two pounds of cooked lobster, cut up very fine, 
with twelve mushrooms, also chopped. Cook for thirty minutes in a 
saucepan, then put it back off the hot fire ; add four egg yolks, stir again 
for a moment, cool, and serve when required. 

223. Crab Forcemeat,  The same as for No. 222, using twelve crabs 
in the place of lobster. 

224. Oxim Forcemeat.  Proceed the same as for No. 222, seasoning 
it more highly, and having twenty-four clams blanched and minced 
exceedingly fine, so that they will better incorporate in the forcemeat. 

225. Chicken Forcemeat k la Creme.  Cut two raw chicken breasts 
in slices, pound them well in a mortar, adding the whites of three eggs ; 
bruise well together, and season with half a tablespoonful of salt, a scant 
teaspoonful of pepper, and a teaspoonful of nutmeg. Add three tablespoon- 
fuls of very fresh cream, strain through a sieve, cool on the ice, and use 
when required. 

226. Chicken Forcemeat.^-Cut in large pieces two raw chicken 
breasts, pound them in a mortar, adding the same quantity of bread soaked 
in milk, a teaspoonful of fresh butter and four egg yolks, seasoning with 
half a tablespoonful of salt, a scant teaspoonful of pepper, and a teaspoon- 
ful of nutmeg. Mix all together ; strain, and put it in a bowl with three 
tablespoonfuls of veloutfe sauce (No. 152). 

227. Forcemeat CJnenelles of Fish.  Select one pound of firm fish 
(bass is preferable), remove the skin and take out the bones. Pound it well 
in a mortar, adding the whites of three eggs a little at a time. When well 
pounded add half a pint of cream, half a tablespoonful of salt, and a little 
white pepper and nutmeg. Mix well, and use when needed. 

228. Partridge Forcemeat.  Cut two breasts of partridges into large 
pieces, pound them well in a mortar, gradually adding the same quantity 
of bread soaked in milk, four egg yolks, one after another, and a tea- 
spoonful of butter. Season with half a pinch of salt, the third of a pinch 
of pepper, and the same quantity of grated nutmeg ; thoroughly pound 
all together, then rub through a sieve. If not sufficiently consistent, add 
one more egg yolk.  

When game other than partridge is used add two pounded truffles, 
and use when required. 

229. American Forcemeat.  Place on the fire in a saucepan for five 
minutes two very finely chopped onions with an ounce of butter. Soak in 



1 82 THE TABLE. 



water for fifteen minutes the crumbs of a loaf of bread ; press out all the 
water either with the hands or through a cloth, put the crumbs in a bowl 
with three whole raw eggs, a tablespoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of 
pepper, a tablespoonful of sage, a large half teaspoonful of nutmeg, three 
skinned sausages, and a pinch of chopped parsleyi Add the cooked 
onions, and mix well together ; use the forcemeat when needed in other 
recipes. 

230. Mushroom Oarnishing.  Mince finely twelve mushrooms and 
place them in a saucepan with half a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 185). 
Cook for five minutes, and serve. 

231. Garnishing Bayard. Cut into very thin round slices with a 
tube one good-sized truffle, one ounce of cooked smoked beef-tongue, three 
mushrooms, and two artichoke bottoms. Place all in a saucepan on the 
fire with half a wine-glassful of Madeira wine. Reduce to one-half, 
which will take about five minutes. Then add half a pint of Espagnole 
sauce (No. 151), and cook for fifteen minutes. Surround the dish with 
crofttons of bread (No. 133) covered with thin slices of pat6-de-foie-gras. 

232. Garnishing k la Chipolata for one gallon.  Fry a quarter of a 
pound of salt pork, cut dice-shaped, for two minutes in a saucepan ; then 
add half a pint of carrots cut tubular shaped, half a pint of onions browned 
and glazed in the oven (No. 972), one pint of blanched and peeled chest- 
nuts, half a pint of mushrooms, and six small sausages cut in pieces. Add 
two quarts of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), half a pint of tomato sauce (No. 
205), a tablespoonful of salt, and a large teaspoonful of pepper. Cook 
for thirty minutes, and use when needed. 

233. Garnishing Vanderbilt.  Peel one green pepper ; chop it very 
fine, and place it in a stewpan with one tomato cut into small pieces. 
Add an ounce of butter and eighteen canned, picked, and. chopped-up 
shrimps ; season with a third of a tablespoonful of salt and -a scant tea- 
spoonful of pepper. Cook for ten minutes, and use for garnishing. 

234. Garnishing Valencienne. Cut in long shreds one truffle, three 
mushrooms, and a very little cooked tongue, adding three tablespqonfuls 
of cooked rice ; put all together in a stewpan with three tablespoonfuls of 
tomato sauce (No. 205), a third of a tablespoonful of salt, a scant tea- 
spooful of pepper, and one tablespoonful of grated cheese. Boil for five 
minutes, and serve when needed. 

235. Gamislling' K^gence.  Take one pint of hot Allemande sauce 
(No. 210), add to it six mushrooms cut into large pieces, two truflBes, six 
quenelles, either of godiveau (No. 221) or chicken, according to the 
usage, pieces of sweetbreads, six cocks combs (if handy) and six kidneys. 
This garnishing must be poached, before adding it to the sauce, in half a 
glassful of white wine, seasoned with a little salt and pepper. Let coolc 
for six minutes, and add it to the sauce ; warm it for three minutes, and 
serve. The same for fish, omitting the sweetbreads. 

236. Garnishing k la St. Nazaire.  Add three tablespoonfuls of 
court bouillon (No. 142) to a small glassful of white wine, also one table- 
spoonful of cooked fine herbs (No. 143) ; add half a pint of Allemande 



STOCJCS, SAUCES, FORCEMEATS, GARNISHINGS. l8^ 



J 



sauce (No. 210), and a third of a pinch each of salt and pepper ; pour the 
sauce over the fish to be served, and garnish with six very small, hot, 
stuffed clams (No. 376). 

2S7. Garnishing & la Greeqne for roast or broiled meats. Cut off 
both ends from twelve medium-sized whole okras, parboil them in boiling 
water for five minutes, drain, and put them into any kind of meat-<iuice or 
Madeira sauce (No. 185). Cook for ten minutes, and serve arranged in 
clusters with a quarter of a pint of B^arnaise sauce (No. 166). 

238. Godard Garnishing.  Take six godiveau quenelles (No. 221) 
two truffles cut dice-shaped, six cocks' combs, six cocks' kidneys, and 
three mushrooms cut into square pieces ; add half a glassful of Madeira 
wine, a pinch of salt, and half a pinch of pepper. Cook in a saucepan for 
five minutes, then add a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 185); boil again for 
five minutes, and serve when needed. 

289. Tortne Garnishing.  Boil three chicken livers in water for three 
minutes, let them get cool, then cut them up into three pieces each, put 
them in a saucepan with six stoned and blanched olives, two truffles, four 
mushrooms, and a throat sweetbread, all cut dice-shaped; add a glassful of 
Madeira wine, half a pinch of salt, and the third of a pinch each of pepper 
and nutmeg. Let cook for five minutes, then put in half a pint of Madeira 
sauce (No. 185), and cook for five minutes longer. Serve with six bread 
croutons (No. 133) and six fried eggs (No. 413) as garnishing. 

240. Garnishing Farisienne.  Put in -o. saucepan half a. glassful of 
Madeira wine, six sliced mushrooms, three sliced truffles, and let cook for 
four minutes. Add half a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 185), cook again for 
five minutes, then serve. 

241. Garnishing Gourmet.  Take a cooked artichoke bottom, either 
fresh or conserved, and cut it into six pieces; place them in a saucepan 
with four mushrooms, two truffles, and a piece of cooked palate, all cut 
dice-shaped ; add half a glassful of Madeira wine, and let cook five min- 
utes ; pour in half a. pint of Madeira sauce (No. 185), cook again for five 
minutes, and serve. 

242. Garnishing Cepes.  Cut four cepes into pieces ; cook them in 
a sautoire for three minutes with a tablespoonful of olive oil, half a table- 
spoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, and half a clove of crushed 
garlic. Moisten with half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), and serve. 

243. Bordelaise Garnishing, for tenderloins and steaks.  Place a 
peeled shallot chopped very fine in a sautoire with half a glassful of red 
wine, and cook for five minutes ; add half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 
151), a small pinch of red pepper, and cook for five minutes longer. Serve 
it poured over the fillets or steaks, placing on each one six slices of beef 
marrow, previously parboiled for one-half a minute. 

244. Marrow Gsamishing. Open two fine marrow bones by setting 
them upright on the table, thp narrow part on top, and with a sharp blow 
of the Hatchet cleaving them in two, striking on one side only. Remove 
the marrow, put it into fresh salted water, and let it remain in for one hour. 
Then take it up, drain, and cut it into slices. Heat half a pint of 



1 84 THE TABLE. 



Madeira sauce (No. 185), add the pieces of marrow, and let it boil up 
once with a few drops of tarragon-vinegar. Serve with the slices of mar- 
row on top. 

245. Garnishing & la Patti.  Wash well two ounces of rice ; drain, 
dry, and then put it in a saucepan with a pint of good white broth (No. 
gg). Pbund the wing of a cooked chicken in a mortar and add it to the 
rice ; season with a tablespoonf ul of salt and a teaspopnful of white pep- 
per. Cook on a moderate fire for thirty minutes ; strain through a fine 
sieve, return it to the saucepan with half an ounce of good butter and 
three tablespoonf uls of sweet cream, and heat slowly on the stove without 
boiling. Dress this garnishing in an artistic crown-shape around the hot 
serving dish ; arrange the suprfemes in the centre, and decorate the gar- 
nishing with thin slices of truffles ; with a light hair-brush drip a little 
meat-glaze (No. 141) over it and'serve. 

Supremes of partridges, quails, cotelettes of squabs, or sweetbreads 4 
la Patti, are all to be served this way. 

246. Gamisliing Financiere.  Cut a blanched, throat sweetbread into 
dice-sized pieces, put it in a saucepan with two truffles, six mushrooms, 
twelve stoned olives, six godiveau quenelles (No. 221), and two blanched 
chicken livers cut in pieces. Moisten with half a. glassful. of sherry or 
Madeira wine, and season with half a pinch each of salt and pepper, and 
a quarter of a pinch of nutmeg ; add a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 185), 
cook again for ten minutes, skim off the fat, and serve when required. 

247. Garnishing Ecarlate.  Cook in a saucepan half a pint of tomato 
sauce (No. 205) with half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), and a little 
cooked, smoked beef-tongue, chopped very fine ; let cook for six minutes, 
then serve. 

248. Garnishing' & la Stanley.  Pour a pint of very hot Russian sauce 
(No. 211) upon the hot serving-dish. Lay the mignons filets, or any other 
meat, including broiled fillets, sirloin steaks, etc. , on top, and garnish with 
six fried bananas cut in halves, and send to the table immediately. 

249. Garnishing & la Montebello. Place a pint of tomato sauce (No. 
205) in a saucepan; add a pint of B6arnaise sauce (No. 166) and three good- 
sized, nicely sliced truffles; heat well by^means of the Eain-Marie, without 
boiling, and serve. 

250. Gamislling Sonbise^  Cut up three medium-sized, white onions, 
and place thejn in a saucepan with an ounce of butter, half a cupful of 
white broth (No. 99), a tablespoonful of salt, and a small saltspoonful of 
white pepper. Cover the saucepan and cook for twenty minutes, stirring 
frequently. Add one pint of bechamel sauce (No. 154), and boil again for 
five minutes. Strain the sauce through a tammy, return it to the sauce- 
pan, season it a little' more, if necessary, adding a little grated nutmeg 
and a little' warm milk, in case it should be too thick; warm it well again, 
and serve. 

251. Gamislling Milaqaise.:  Cut into julienne-shaped pieces two 
medium-sized truffles, six rnushrooms, and the same quantity of smoked, 
cooked tongue, and place them in a saucepan with a pint of cooked rice, 



HORS D'CEUVRES. I 85 



half a pint of tomato sauce (No. 205), half a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 
185), a tablespoonful of salt, very little pepper, and three tablespoonfuls 
of grated cheese, either Parmesan or Swiss. Cook for ten minutes and 
serve. 

Sa2. Garnishing Bouennaise.  Cut three medium-sized turnips into 
six pieces, clove-of -garlic-shaped, pare them nicely and put them in a 
sautoire with one ounce of butter, sprinkling over them a little powdered 
sugar. Put the lid on tightly and cook in the oven for ten minutes, shak- 
ing it by the handle frequently. Moisten with a pint of Espagnole sauce 
(No. 151); add a pinch each of salt and pepper; cook again for twenty 
minutes, skim off the fat, and serve. 

253. Garnishing Bobinson.  Cut the gall away carefully from twelve 
chicken livers, wash clean and wipe them well, and then fry them with an 
ounce of butter in a frying-pan. Season them with a tablespoonful of salt 
and two teaspoonfuls of pepper, and after cooking three minutes, put 
them in a saucepan, with a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 185); boil for five 
minutes and serve. 

254. A Bonqnet.  ^how to prepare.  Take four branches of well- 
washed parsley-stalks  if the branches be small, take six  one branch of 
soup-celery, well washed; one blade of bay-leaf, one sprig of thyme, and 
two cloves, placed in the centre of the parsley, so as to prevent cloves, 
thyme, and bay-leaf from dropping out of the bouquet while cooking; fold 
it well, and tightly tie with a string, and use when required in various 
recipes. 

A pinch of salt represents 205 grains, or a tablespoonful. 
Half a pinch of pepper represents 38 grains, or a teaspoonful. 
A third of a. pinch of nutmeg represents 13 grains, or half a tea^ 
spoonful. 



HORS D'OEUVRES. 



255. SalpiconRoyal. Cuta blanched throat sweetbread (No. 601) into 
small pieces, and put them into a saucepan, with half an ounce of good but- 
ter, six mushrooms, and one truffle, all nicely cut into dice-shape.' Thicken 
with half a pint of good bechamel sauce (No. 154), or AUemande sauce 
(No. 210), and let cook on a slow fire for five minutes, gently tossing mean- 
while. Finish by adding half an ounce of crawfish-butter (No. 150); stir 
well, and it will then be ready to use for the desired garnishing. 

256. Salpicon ^ la Finandfere. Take either the leg or the breast of 
a roasted chicken. Cut it into dice-shaped pieces, and put them into a 
saucepan with half an ounce of good butter, adding four mushrooms, one 
truffle, half an ounce of cooked, smoked beef-tongue, all cut in dice-shaped 
pieces, and twelve small godiveau quenelles (No. 221); thicken with haU 



1 86 THE TABLE. 



a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 185), and let cook for five minutes. It will 
then be ready for any garnishing desired. 

257. Selpicon aa Chassenr.  Cut the breast of a fine cooked partridge 
into dice-shaped pieces, and put them into a saucepan on the hot range, 
with half an ounce of butter, half a glassful of good sherry wine, three 
blanched chicken livers, one truffle, four mushrooms, and half an ounce 
of cooked, smoked beef-tongpe, all cut into dice. Thicken with half a 
pint of hot salmi sauce (No. 193), and let all cook for live minutes, and 
use it for any garnishing desired. 

258. Salpicon of Lobster, CraTrflsh, or Shrimps. Put a pint of good 
bSchamel (No. 154) into a saucepan, with four mushrooms, one truffle, 
and the meat from the claw of a cooked lobster, cutting them all into dice- 
shaped pieces. Thicken well and let cook for five minutes, and serve. If 
a lobster cannot be obtained, the meat of three cooked crawfish, or of six 
prawns or shrimps, may be used instead. 

259. Salpicon a la Montglas.  Mince, as for a julienne, four mush- 
rooms, one truffle, the breast of a small cooked chicken, or of any game, 
and half an ounce of cooked ham, or the same quantity of cooked, smoked 
beef-tongue. Put all into a saucepan, adding a gill of well reduced 
Madeira sauce (No. 185) and a gill of tomato sauce (No. 205); let cook for 
five minutes ; then use when needed. 

260. Salpicon, Sance Madere.  Place half an ounce of good butter in 
a saucepan, adding half a glassful of sherry wine, a blanched throat sweet- 
bread (No. 601) nicely cut into dice-shaped pieces, four mushrooms, one 
truffle, and an ounce of cooked, smoked beef-tongue, all cut the same as 
the sweetbread. Let cook for five-minutes, then add half a pint of Madeira 
sauce (No. 185), and let cook again for five minutes. It will now be ready 
to use for the desired garnishing. 

261. Timbales a I'Ecossaise.  Butter well six small timbale- 
molds, and line them with cuts of plain, unsweetened pancake (No. 1186). 
Take a preparation of purfee of chicken (No. 226), and the same quantity of 
raw forcemeat (No. 220), add to it a reduced salpicon (No. 256), and with 
this fill the molds. Cover with small round pieces of the pancake. Then 
steam them in a moderate oven for eight minutes. Unmold, dress them 
on a hot dish, pour a gill of hot Madeira sauce (No. 185) over, and serve. 

262. Timbales de NoidUes k la Genoise.  Sprinkle the insides of six 
well-buttered timbale-molds with grated, fresh bread-crumbs; line them 
with thin foundation paste (No. 1078), and fill with finely shred, boiled 
nouilles (No. 1182), adding an ounce of good butter, and seasoning with 
half a pinch each of salt and pppper, and the third of a pinch of nutmeg; 
also half an ounce of grated Parmesan cheese. Thicken with a gill of 
strong Madeira sauce (No. 185). Cover the molds with pieces of the foun- 
dation paste, and put them into a brisk oven for six minutes. Unmold, 
and arrange them on a hot dish containing a gill of hot Madeira sauce 
(No. 185), and with the timbales on top. 

263. Timbales Bnsse \ la Schnltze,  Prepare six light timbales as 
for No. 262, one and a quarter inches high, by two and a quarter inches in 



HORS D'<EUVRES. 1 87 



diameter. Arrange them on a dessert dish with a folded napkin, and lay 
them in a cool place until needed. Put into a china bowl half of a fine, 
well-cleaned, sound Camembert cheese, mash it thoroughly with a fork, 
and drop on to it very gradually one and a half ponies of old brandy. Cut 
into small pieces two medium-siz^d, cooked, throat sweetbreads (No. 601), 
and add them to the cheese, mixing well together. Season with half a 
teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, and the same quantity of 
grated nutmeg, stirring well for a minute longer. Then add four medium- 
sized, chopped trufl3es,and mix again. Divide the above preparation equally 
into the six timbales, cover each with a thin slice of truffle, previously 
dipped in brandy, and send to the table. 

264. Cronstade tl la Kegence..^Spread out a quarter of a pound of 
patfe-a-foucer (No. 1078) an eighth of an inch thick. Clean well six tartlet 
moulds ; line them with the paste, then fill them with cracker-dust ; cover 
them with a buttered paper, place them in the hot oven on a tin plate, and 
bake for ten or twelve minutes. Take from out the oven and let cool. 
Remove all the cracker-dust, and they will be ready for use. Fill them 
with a pint of hot rfegence (No. 235), evenly divided ; dress on a hot dish 
with a folded napkin, and send to the table. 

265. Croustades de Riz a la Tictoria.  ^Wash thoroughly and boil in 
a saucepan one quart of rice with two quarts of broth and one ounce of 
butter. Keep it as dry as possible so that it remains firm, and add to it 
half an ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, half a pinch of pepper, and a, 

* third of a pinch of nutmeg. Mix well with a wooden spoon ; then put it 
in a buttered sautoire, spreading it an inch and three-quarters thick, and 
cover with a buttered paper. Leave it to cool with a weight pressed 
down on the top. Then cut it out with a No. 8 paste-cutter into six crou- 
stades (being careful to dip the cutter in warm water each time it is used), 
and with a No. 4 paste-cutter make a mark on the surface of each without 
cutting. Dip the pieces in beaten egg, roll them in bread-crumbs (No. 
301), and repeat this. Then fry them in very hot fat for five minutes ; 
drain, empty them with a vegetable spoon, and fill the insides with a pint 
of hot salpicon of shrimps (No. 258), mushrooms, and;cream sauce (No. 
iSi). Put the covers on top, and serve the same as the croustades ^ la 
rfegence (No. 264"). 

266. Small Hot Patties & I'Anglaise.  Line with fine p^tS- a.- foucer 
(No. 1078) six small, hot patty-molds, fluted, and provided with hinges. 
Pinch the tops and fill them with common flour. Bake in a moderate oven 
for fifteen minutes ; empty them, and leave them to dry at the oven door 
for five minutes. Fill them with a pint of hot salpicon royal (No. 255), 
place a slice of truffle on the top of each instead of a cover, and serve on a 
hot dish with a folded napkin. 

267. Ortolan Patties.  Make six patties the same as for the above, 
(No. 266), only use them when cold'. Place at the bottom of each a table- 
spoonful of salpicon royal (No. 255), and then place in each patty two 
well-picked, fine, fat, raw, seasoned reed-birds, covered with a slice of 
thin lard ; lay them on a small roasting-pan, place in a moderate oven and 



1 88  THE TABLE. 



roast for fifteen minutes. Remove from the oven, take off the lard from 
the birds, moisten each patty with two tablespoonfuls of good, hot, Madeira 
sauce (No. 185), and serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin over it. 

268. Cromesquis aux Truffles.  Bone a cooked chicken, hash the meat 
very fine, and put it in a sautoire with a pint of very strong velontS sauce 
(No. 152), adding two well-hashed truffles, and seasoning with a good 
pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and the third of a pinch of nutmeg. 
Let cook for ten minuteS, stirring occasionally, then transfer it to a fiat tin 
plate and let it cool. Spread it out an inch thick ; then divide it into six 
parts, and wrap each one in a veal udder, or a piece of crepinette well 
rolled around. Immerse them in flour batter (No. 1185), and plunge them 
into boiling fat for five, minutes, or Until they are slightly browned. 
Drain on a cloth, and serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin, decorating 
with fried parsley. 

All ' cromesquis are made the same way, only serving with different 
garnishing or sauces. 

269. Canap^ Madison.  Prepare six medium-sized slices of bread, all 
the same shape. Toast them to a good golden color and lay them pn a 
dish. Cover each toast with a very thin.slice of lean, cooked ham; spread 
a little mustard over ; then cover with a layer of garnishing a la proven- 
jale (No. 642), dredge grated Parmesan cheese on top, and strew a little 
fresh bread-crumbs over all. Place them in the hot oven and bake for ten 
riiinules ; remove, dress them on a hot dish with a folded napkin, and send. 
to the table. 

270. Small Bonch^es k la Beine.  Roll three-quarters of a pound of 
feuilletage paste (No. 1076) to a quarter of an inch thick ; let it rest for ten 
minutes in a cold place, then cut six rounds out of the paste with a No. 4 
channeled paste-cutter. Lay them on a borderless, buttered tin baking- 
dish, slightly apart from each other ; cover with beaten egg, and make a. 
mark on the surface of each with a paste-cutter, No. 2, being careful to dip 
the cutter each time in hot water, so that the marked outline may remain 
perfect. Put them in a brisk oven for twelve minutes ; then lift the 
covers with a knife, and fill each one with a white salpicon royal (No. 256) 
made of truffles, mushrooms, and finely shred chicken. Set the covers 
on, and serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin. 

All bouch^es are made the same way, adding different garnishings 
according to taste. 

271. Coquilles of Chicken k I'Anglaise. Fill six table-shells with a 
thick chicken and truffle salpicon (No. 256) ; besprinkle the tops with 
grated, fresh bread-crumbs, spread a little clarified butter over each, and 
lay them on a very even baking-dish. Place them in a very hot oven for 
about six minutes, or until they are of a golden brown color, then serve 
the same as for the above. 

272. Coquilles of Oysters au Gralin.  Blanch twenty-four medium- 
sized oysters in their own liquor for five minutes ; add half a pinch of 
pepper and half an ounce of butter ; then drain them, keeping the liquor 
for further use. Add to the oysters half a pint of veloutfi sauce (No. 



ffOJiS D'CEUVRES. l8g 



152), mixed with three tablespoonfuls of the oyster liquor; keep it thick, 
and be very careful not to break the oysters. Fill six table-shells with 
this preparation, sprinkle with grated, fresh bread-crumbs and a very little 
clarified butter, and brown well in the oven for six minutes. Dress on a 
hot dish with a folded napkin, and serve. 

273. Oysters in Shells h I'Anglaise. Select eighteen large oysters. 
Put three into each of six table-shells and season with a pinch of pepper, 
besprinkle with slightly fried bread-crumbs, and lay them on a flat roast- 
ing-pan. Place them in a very brisk oven for about four minutes, or until 
the oysters raise ; then serve on a dish with a folded napkin. 

274. Lamb Sweetbreads en Petites Caisses.  Blanch, pare, and clean 
six small lamb sweetbreads as for No. 601.' Lay them aside to cool, then 
lard them with either fresh fat pork or truffles. Place them in a well- 
buttered sautoire, adding a gill of chicken broth or a gill of Madeira 
wine. Cover with a buttered paper, and let cook to a golden color 
in the oven for ten minutes. Then lay them on a dish. Put half a gill of 
co6ked fine herbs (No. 143) and a gill of well-reduced Espagnole sauce 
(No. 151) into the sautoire, letting it cook for five minutes. Take six small 
boxes of buttered paper and pour a little of the gravy at the bottom of 
each ; cover with sweetbreads , and place them on a baking-dish ; keep 
them for five minutes in an open oven, then serve on a folded napkin. 

275. Oysters en Petites Caisses.  Open and blanch for five minutes 
twenty-four medium-sized oysters in a sautoire with half a glassful of 
white wine and half an ounce of butter. Season with half a pinch of 
pepper and a third of a pinch of nutmeg. Let cook for five minutes; then 
add one pint of well-reduced velout6 sauce (No. 152), and let cook for 
another five minutes, adding half an ounce of crawfish butter (No. 150), 
and stirring it occasionally. Fill six buttered paper boxes with four 
oysters each, and the garnishing equally divided. Sprinkle over a little 
fresh bread-crumbs, and arrange them on a tin roasting-pan. Spread a 
very little butter over each patty, and put them in a moderate oven for 
five minutes. Have a hot dish ready, with a folded napkin nicely arranged 
on it ; dress the patties over, and serve. 

276. Chicken Croquettes with Truffles.  Bone and cut up a medium- 
sized, cooked chickeninto small, square pieces; put them in a sautoire with 
two truffles cut the same way, adding half a pint of strong veloutfe (No. 
152), and let cook for ten minutes. Then incorporate therein half a glass- 
ful of Madeira wine, four egg yolks, a pinch of salt, half a pinch of pep- 
per, and the third of a pinch of nutmeg. Stir briskly, then put it away to 
cool in a flat dish. Now divide the mixture into six even parts ; lay them 
on a cold table, besprinkle with fresh bread-crumbs, and roll them into 
oblong shapes. Dip each one into a beaten egg, and roll again in fresh 
bread-crumbs. Fry to a nice color in hot fat for four minutes. Drain 
thoroughly, and serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin, decorating with 
a little green parsley. 

All chicken croquettes are prepared the same way, only served with 
different garnishings and sauces, or by omitting the truflSes and substitut- 



I go . THE TABLE. 



ing six hashed mushroonis. Sweetbread croquettes are prepared the 
same, only substituting four blanched sweetbreads (No. 6oi) for the 
chicken. 

277. Croquettes of Game.  To be made exactly like the chicken cro- 
quettes (No. 276), adding six hashed mushrooms and half a gill of cold 
fumet de gibier (No. 218). 

278. Croquettes of Foie-gras.  Mix half an ounce of cooked, smoked 
beef - tongue with half a pint of dry salpicon of foie-gras. Put it 
into a saucepan with a gill of bechamel (No. 154), half a glassful of 
Madeira or sherry wine, and a tablespoonful of meat-glaze (No. 141). 
Reduce for ten minutes, stirring well, then transfer to a cold, flat dish, 
cover with buttered paper, and put aside to cool. Divide the prep- 
aration into six parts  each one shaped like a pear  roll them in fresh 
bread-crumbs, dip in beaten egg, and put a slice of trufiie on the top 
of each. Again roll in bread-crumbs, and fry in boiling fat for four 
minutes. Remove them, drain well, and serve on a hot dish with a folded 
napkin. Any desired garnishing may be added. 

279. Croquettes of Macaroni.  Boil a quarter of a pound of Italian 
macaroni in salted water for twenty-five minutes. Drain, and put it in a 
saucepan with a good ounce of butter, half an ounce of Parmesan cheese, 
and a quarter of an ounce of cooked, smoked tongue cut into small pieces, 
and one truffle cut the same.' Toss all together, then change it to a well- 
buttered sautoire, spreading the preparation one inch thick on the bottom. 
Cover with a buttered paper, press it well down, and put away to cool. 
Cut the preparation with a plain paste-cutter into six parts ; roll each one 
in grated Parmesan cheese, dip in beaten egg, and roll in grated, fresh, 
white bread-crumbs. Fry in very hot fat for four minutes, drain well, 
and serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin. 

280. Anchovies on Toast.  Prepare with American bread six dry 
toasts, spread over them a little anchovy butter (No. 146), and cover each 
with four half anchovies. Place the toasts on -a. tin baking-sheet in the 
oven for one minute. Arrange them on a dish with a folded napkin, and 
serve. 

281. Caviare on Toast.  Prepare six toasts of American bread. Put 
half the contents of a small box of Russian caviare into a sautoire ; add 
two tablespoonfuls of cream, and heat one and a half minutes on the 
stove, stirring it carefully meanwhile ; pour this over the toasts, and 
serve on a dish with a folded napkin. 

282. Tlion Marine.  Fold a napkin on a radish-dish, and dress on it 
the desired quantity of Thon Marin6  -pickled tunny. Decorate with a 
little fresh parsley, and serve as a hors-d ceuvre. 

283. Sardines k I'Huile.  Lift the sardines carefully out of the box 
to avoid breaking them, and lay them on a plate ; neatly pare off the 
loose skin, then dress on a radish-dish, and decorate- with parsley. 

284. Ancliovies k I'Huile.  Take a pint bottle of boned anchovies, 
drain them on a cloth, then dress them artistically on a radish-dish. 
Decorate with a hashed, hard-boiled egg and some chopped parsley. 



HORS VCEUVRES. 



igr 



285. Norwegfian Anchories.  These are considered far superior to 
the bottled anchovies. On taking them out of the keg they should be 
placed in cold, fresh water for two hours, then drained, and with the 
hand split in two along the backbone. Lay them in a small bowl and 
cover with sweet oil, and use as desired. 

286. Saucisson de Lyon.  Procure a medium-sized, fine saucisson 
de Lyon, cut twelve very thin slices from it, dress nicely upon a radish- 
dish, and place a few parsley-leaves in the centre. 

287. Mortadella.  To be served the same as the above (No. 286). 

288. Tomatoes, side dish.  Take six fine, firm, red tomatoes, wipe 
well, then plunge them into boiling water for one minute, drain and 
peel them. Put them in a cool place, and when thoroughly cold, cut 
them into slices, arrange them on a radish-dish, sprinkle a little salt, 
pepper, and vinegar over. 

289. Cncnmbers, side disll.  Take two medium-sized, fine cacum- 
bers, peel neatly, and cut them in thin slices. Place in a bowl with a 
good pinch of salt, and put them in a cold place for two hours. Then 
drain the liquid off, and season with half a pinch of pepper, a tablespoon- 
ful of vinegar, and the same quantity of oil. Dress nicely in a radish- 
dish. 

290. Celery, in glass.  Procure a bunch of fine, white Kalamazoo 
celery, pare off the green stalks, and trim the roots neatly. Be careful to 
save the clear, white hearts. Cut each plant lengthwise into four equal 
branches. Wash them well in cold water, and put them into clean water 
with a piece of ice until ready to serve ; then arrange them nicely in a 
celery glass, or dress on a china radish-dish, with a few pieces of ice in 
the centre. 

291. Celery, frizzled.  Another and economical way to prepare celery 
for a side dish to decorate the table. Take only one large head of fine 
celery. Pare off the green stalks, and cut off the root (reserving it for 
a delicious and wholesome salad). Cut the stalk lengthwise into four 
equal branches. Wash them well in cold water, then cut each one 
into pieces about as long as one's finger ; by so doing, all the branches 
will be separated. With the aid of a small, keen knife pare the thin 
sides a little, making five or six slits in each piece, starting from the top, 
downwards, leaving half to three - quarters of an inch uncut ; place 
them in cold water with plenty of ice, leaving them in for two hours. 
Lift it from the ice-water, artistically dress on a round glass dish, and 
send to the table. Celery arranged and served in this way makes a beauti- 
ful effect on the table, but requires a little patience in its preparation. 

292. Radishes, how to prepare.  If the radishes be quite large, take 
three bunches  ^if small, four bunches  being careful to select them 
round, firm, and the reddest procurable. Pare off all the leaves and 
stems except the two prettiest on each radish. Cut away the roots, and 
also a little of the peel around the roots. With a small, sharp knife 
divide the remaining peel into five or six equal-sized leaves, beginning 
at the root end, and cutting toward the green stems, but being careful to 



192 



THE TABLE. 



avoid detaching the leaves. They can be formed into any desired design 
by cutting thera with care. Place them in cold water until required. 
When serving, arrange the radishes artistically on a flat saucer, the 
radishes meeting toward the centre, the green leaves lying outward. 
Serve with chopped ice over them. 

298. Eemarks Regarding Badishes.  The following incident hap- 
pened in my presence over twenty-five years ago. One evening, dinner was 
served to a party of prominent gentlemen in Lyons, France, among whom 
were Alexander Dumas, pfere, the great novelist, and Berger, the famous 
billiard player. While the waiter was in the act of handing the radishes 
to M. Dumas, he saw a change come over him ; anger was depicted in 
his face, and he thoroughly expected to see the radishes, radish-dish, etc., 
flung full at him. He stood amazed, not daring to question the dis- 
tinguished guest. When his anger subsided, he amiably explained 
that the cause of his sudden ill-temper was offering to him radishes 
peeled, and deprived of their green stalks; he asserted that the healthiest 
and best parts had been removed. After inquiries of more experienced 
co-Hborers, the waiter thoroughly agreed with M. Dumas, and experi- 
ence has taught him the correctness of his judgment. 

Radishes are a luxurious and healthful adjunct to the dinner-table, and 
can be procured almost the whole year ; but in the spring the markets 
are more plentifully supplied, and that is the most wholesome season to 
partake of them. 

294. Welsh Rarebit.  Take one pound of American cheese ; cut up 
in small pieces. Place them in a sautoire, adding half a glassful of good ale. 
Season with half a saltspoonful of red pepper. Stir it continually with 
a wooden spoon until the mass is well melted, which will take about ten 
minutes. Have six nice, fresh, large pieces of toast ; arrange them on a 
very hot dish, and distribute the preparation equally over, serving the 
rarebit very hot. 

295. (jtOlden Buck.  Proceed as for the above (No. 294), and when 
ready to serve, dress a poached egg (No. 404) on each piece of toast, and 
serve very hot. 

296. (jiherkin Buck.  Prepared the same as Golden Buck (No. 295), 
only adding to each toast a slice of broiled bacon (No. 754), and sending 
to the table very hot. 

297. Welsh Rarebit au Gratin.  Prepare six toasts of American 
bread ; broil them lightly, remove, and cover each with a slice of Swiss 
cheese a little less than half an inch thick ; lay thetn in a roasting-pan, 
sprinkling a very little pepper over. Put in the oven for ten minutes. 
Arrange the toasts on a very hot dish, and sepd to the table. 

A pinch of salt represents 205 grains, or a tablespoonful. 
Half a pindh of pepper represents 38 grains, or a teaspoonful. 
A third of a pinch of nutmeg represents 13 grains, or half a tea- 
spoonful. 



FISH. IQ3 



FISH. 



298. How to Serre Oysters for Private Families. Oysters should 
be kept in a very cold place before they are opened, and well washed 
before using, otherwise their appearance will be destroyed. They should, 
according to the French custom, be opened on the deep shell, so as to 
better preserve the liquor, then laid on finely chopped ice for a short time 
 too long destroys their flavor. While they should be kept as cold as 
possible, they should never be allowed to freeze, therefore they must only 
be opened shortly before they are needed ; for once frozen, they quickly 
turn sour. The proper way to open them is to place the deep shell in 
the palm of the left hand, and break them on one side. The Boston stab- 
bing-knife is preferable for this, but if there be none handy use a small 
block that the oyster can fit inf.o, and stab it on the edge ; or even a chop- 
ping-block and chopping-knife may be employed in case of necessity. 
Serve six oysters for each person, nicely arranged on oyster-plates with 
quarters of lemon. 

299. Oysters k I'Alexandre Dumas. Place in a sauce-bowl a heaped 
teaspoonful of salt, three-quarters of a teaspoonful of very finely crushed 
white pepper, one medium-sized, fine, sound, well-peeled, and very finely 
chopped shallot, one heaped teaspoonful of very finely chopped chives, 
and half a teaspoonful of parsley, also very finely chopped up. Mix lightly 
together, then pour in a light teaspoonful of olive oil, six drops of Tabasco 
sauce, one saltspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, and lastly one light gill, 
or five and a half tablespoonfuls, of good vinegar. Mix it thoroughly with 
a spoon ; send to the table, and with a teaspoon pour a little of the sauce 
over each oyster just before eating them. 

300. How to serve Clams.  Clams should be served on deep plates, 
covered previously with finely chopped ice. To have them sweet and 
fresh, they should be kept as cold as possible. Serve six on each plate 
with quarters of lemon. 

301. To prepare Breaded Fish.  i. After the fish is pared, cleaned, 
and dried, dip it first in milk, then in flour, and fry in very hot fat. 

2. Take very clean fish, dip it in beaten egg, then in freshly grated 
bread-crumbs, and fry in very hot fat. 

3. For certain fish, like whitebait.'immerse them in milk, then in flour 
mixed with pulverized crackers, shake well in a colander, and throw into 
very hot fat. Oysters are breaded the same way, but should be flattened 
before frying. 

4. For croustades of rice or potatoes, dip in beaten egg and roll in 
fresh bread-crunibs ; repeat three times before frying. 

302. Salmon^ en Papillotes.  Procure two pounds of very fresh sal- 
mon and cut it into six even slices. Season these with a good pinch of 

13 



194 ^^-^ TABLE. 



salt and a pinch of pepper. Roll them well. Cut out six heart-shaped 
pieces of paper, oil them nicely, and have twelve thin slices of cooked 
' ham (No. 753), then proceed to prepare them exactly as for mackerel en 
papillote (No. 330). 

303. Salmon, oyster sauce.  Place two pounds of very fresh salmon 
in a fish-kettle, completely cover with cold water, season with a handful 
of salt, add one medium-sized, sliced onion, half a wine-glassful of white 
vinegar, eight whole peppers, two cloves, and two parsley-roots. Range 
the kettle on a brisk fire. Five minutes after coming to a boil the salmon 
will be sufficiently cooked. Remove from the kettle, drain it well ; dress 
on a hot dish with a folded napkin, nicely decorate with parsley-greens all 
around the salmon, and serve with a pint of hot oyster sauce (No. 173) 
separately. 

The necessary time to cook the above to perfection, from beginning to 
end, will be thirty-five minutes. 

804. Sablion Colbert.  Proceed as for the above, and serve with 
three-quarters of a pint of Colbert sauce (No. 190), also four plain boiled 
potatoes served separately, and cut in quarters (No: 982). 
' . 305. Salmon k la, R^gence.  Take a fine but very small salmon, fill it 
with fish forcemeat (No. 227), and put it on a grate in the fish-kettle! with 
half a bunch of parsley-roots, three sprigs of celery, three sliced onions, 
six cloves, and half a handful of whole pepper. Moisten with half a bottle 
of white wine, season with a pinch of salt, and cover with a thin barde of 
raw salt pork. Add a little mushroom liquor, if any on hand, and place 
it in a moderate oven for one and a half to two hours ; then lift it from 
the kettle, removing the pork and herbs. Slide the fish on to a hot dish, 
strain the broth into a sautoire, reduce it to one-half, and add to the gar-, 
nish with a regence garnishing (No. 235) ; glaze the top of the fish with 
just a little crawfish butter (No. 150) mixed with very little white glaze 
(No. 141), and serve with the sauce in a sauce-bowl. 

306. Salmon k la Genoise.  To be prepared the same as salmon Col- 
bert (No. 304), garnishing with four clusters of mushrooms  four mush- 
rooms on each cluster  and six c6oked crawfish instead of the boiled 
potatoes. Serve with half a pint of Genoise sauce (No. 187) separate. 

307. Salmon, rolled k I'Irlandaise.  Bone three pounds of salmon. 
Parboil it. Besprinkle the sides and insides with a pinch of salt, half a 
pinch of pepper, and the same of nutmeg; also twelve chopped oysters, 
one tablespoonfnl of parsley, and half a cupful of bread-crumbs. Roll it 
together, then put it in a deep pan with one ounce of butter. Bake in a 
hot oven for twenty-five minutes and serve on a dish, pouring its own 
gravy over. 

308. BroUed Salmon-tail.  Take three pounds of the tail part of a 
salmon. Steep it for five or six hours in a marinade composed of 
three tablespoonfuls of olive oil in a dish with a quarter of a bunch 
of parsley-roots, two bay-leaves, and a sprig of thyme. Take out the 
salmon and broil for ten minutes on one side and five minutes on the 
other (skin side). Dress on a hot dish, ^nd serve with two ounces of 



FISH. 



195 



melted butter (No. 155), flavored with alight teaspoonful of finely chopped 
chervil, half a teaspoonful of chives, and the juice of half a medium-sized, 
sound lemon. 

309. Boiled Halibut.  Put a piece of halibut weighing two pounds 
in a saucepan, and cover it with fresh water ; add one sliced onion, half 
a sliced carrot, and a bouquet (No. 254). Season with a handful of salt 
and two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Put on the lid and let cook gently, 
but no more than five minutes after boiling-point ; then lift up the fish 
alone, drain well ; dress it on a. hot dish, and serve with any desired 
sauce. 

310. Halibut Steaks, maitre d'liotel.  Wipe well a two-pound piece 
of fresh halibut, lay it on a dish, and season it with a pinch of salt, a pinch 
of pepper, and two tablespoonfuls of sweet oil. Roll it well and lay it on 
a double broiler ; then place it on a brisk fire, and broil for eight minutes 
on each side. Dress the fish on a hot dish, pour a gill of maitre d'h6tel 
sauce (No. 145) over, decorate with parsley-greens ^ and serve. 

311. Trout, filirimp sauce.  Clean, wash, and dry six fine trout, 
weighing about a quarter of a pound each. Place them on a grate in the 
fish-kettle, with a pinch of salt, adding one sliced carrot, one sprig of 
thyme, and two bay-leaves. Moisten with half a glassful of white wine 
and half a pint of water. Put it on the stove, and let it simmer gently for 
five minutes after boiling-point; then drain, and serve on a dish garnished 
with parsley. Send it to the table with half a pint of shrimp sauce (No. 
178) in a separate bowl, also four plain, boiled potatoes, cut in quarters, 
k I'Anglaise (No. 988). Keep the fish-stock for further use. 

312. Trout h. la Cambaceres.  Cook six trout as for the above (No. 
3ii);_when cooked, then place onahotdish. Put in a saucepan two minced 
truffles, six mushrooms, also minced, and half a pint of Espagnole sauce 
No. 151), also twelve olives and three tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce 
No. 205). Let cook for ten minutes, then skim off the fat very carefully, 
and pour the sauce over the trout before serving. 

313. Trout h, la Chambord.  Clean, wash, and dry three fine trout 
of half a pound each. Stuff them with fish forcemeat (No. 227), and place 
them in a deep baking-dish, buttering it well with about half an ounce of 
butter. Add half a glassful of white wine, a bouquet (No. 254), half a 
pinch of salt, and half a pinch of pepper. Cook for fifteen minutes in the 
oven, being very careful to baste it frequently. Take the juice from 
under the fish, and put it in a saucepan with half a pint of good Espagnole 
sauce (No. 151). Reduce, and skim off the fat. ' Add one truffle and four 
mushrooms, all well-sliced, also twelve blanched oysters. Dress the 
trout on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and decorate the fish with six 
fish quenelles (No. 227). 

314. BroQed Trout, maitre d'hotel.  Procure six fine trout, of a 
quarter of a pound each ; clean and wash well, drain them in a napkin, 
and make three incisions on each side. Place them on a dish with one 
teaspoonful of oil, a pinch of salt, and half a pinch of pepper ; roll gently 
and put them on the broiler. Cook for four minutes on each side, then 



196 THE TABLE. 



lay them on a dish, pour a gill of maitre d'hotel sauce (No. 177) over, 
and serve with six slices of lemon, or with any other sauce desired. 

315. Trout, with fine herbs.  Clean, wash, and dry six fine trout, 
of a quarter pf a pound each. Put them on a buttered dish, adding half a 
glassful of white wine and one finely chopped shallot. Let cook for ten 
minutes,' then put the gravy in a saucepan, with two tablespoonfuls of 
cooked herbs (No. 143), moistening with half a pint of Allemande sauce 
(No. 210). Reduce the gravy to one-half, and pour it over the trout 
with the juice of half a sound lemon, and serve. 

316. Trout en Fapillotes.  Take six trout, of a quarter of a pound 
each, and stuff them with fish forcemeat (No. 227). Oil as many pieces of 
paper as there are fish ; put a barde of salt pork on either end of each 
piece of paper, lay a trout on top, add a little salt and pepper, then fold the 
paper and tie it securely with string. Cook in a baking-dish in a rather 
slow oven for about twenty minutes, and serve them in their envelopes, 
after removing the strings, with any sauces desired. 

317. Sole k I'HoUandaise. Skin and bone well three medium-sized 
soles ; put the fillets in a stewpan, and cover them with salted water, 
adding a few drops of vinegar. Cook for a.bout six minutes. Then take 
them off, drain well, and arrange them on a dish. Pour one ounce of 
melted butter over, with the juice of half a lemon ; garnish with green 
parsley, and serve with twelve pieces of potatoes %. I'Anglaise (No. 988) 
separate. 

318. Soles Normande.  ^Take the fillets from three fine soles, as for 
the above ; fold them in two, and lay them in a buttered, flat saucepan, 
with half a glassful of white wine, three tablespoonfuls of mushroom 
liquor, and half a pinch each of salt and pepper. Cover ^.nd cook for six 
minutes ; then lift them up, drain, and arrange them on a dish. Reduce 
the gravy to one-half, add twelve blanched oysters, and six sliced mush- 
rooms, moistening with half a pint of Allemande sauce (No. 210). 
Thicken the sauce well with a tablespoonful of good butter, tossing well 
till dissolved, and add the juice of half a lemon. Garnish the sides of the 
dish with the oysters and mushrooms, and pour the sauce over the fish. 
Decorate with three small, cooked crawfish, three fried smelts,' and three 
small, round croquettes of potatoes (No. 997). 

319. Soles au Gratin,  Proceed as for No. 318. Put three table- 
spoonfuls of cooked, fine herbs (No. 143) in the bottom of a deep baking- 
dish, fold the fillets in two, and place them in, crown-shaped. Season 
with half a pinch each of salt and pepper, then moisten with half a glass- 
ful of white wine, and bake for five minutes. Take out the dish, decorate 
it with twelve mushroom buttons, adding half a pint of good Espagnole 
sauce (No. 151). Sprinkle over with fresh bread-crumbs, pour on a few 
drops of melted butter, and bake once more for three minutes, then press 
the juice of half a lemon over the fillets, add half a pinch of chopped 
parsley, and serve. (All fish au gratin are prepared the same way.) 

320. Fried Soles, sauce Colbert.  Select six small soles, cut off 
their heads, and make an incision down the backbone. Season with one 



Pisrr. 



197 



pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and the juice of half a lemon ; roll 
in fresh bread-crumbs and beaten eggs, then flatten them well, and leave 
them to drip for a few minutes; fry them for three minutes in very hot 
fat ; drain, add another half a pinch of salt, and arrange them on a dish 
on a folded napkin. Garnish with a quarter of a bunch of fried parsley, 
and serve with half a pint of Colbert sauce (No. 190) separate. 

321. Fried Soles k la Horly.  Fry twelve fillets of sole as for No. 
320, and serve with half a pint of tomato sauce (No. 205) separate. 

322. FUlets of Sole, JoinTille. Take the fillets of three soles, fold 
them, and lay them crown-shaped in a buttered, flat stewpan, moistening 
with half a glassful of white wine, and three tablespoonfuls of mushroom 
liquor. Season with half a pinch each of salt and pepper, and cook on a 
moderate fire for six minutes. Arrange the fillets on a dish, and put it on 
the side of the stove ; reduce the gravy to half, adding one cooked 
lobster claw, one truffle, and three mushrooms, all cut julienne-shaped. 
Add half a pint of AUemande sauce (No. 210) ; stir it well, and pour it 
over the soles before serving, inserting a piece of truffle and a mushroom 
button on each fillet, also in every one stick a picked shrimp, with its 
head erect, if at hand, and then serve. 

323. Sole, with fine herbs.  Proceed as for sole Joinville (No. 322), 
but replace the truffles and lobster claw by two tablespoonfuls of cooked, 
fine herbs (No. 143), half a pinch of chopped parsley, and the same of 
chervil and chives. Garnish with six heart-shaped croutons (No. 133), 
and serve. 

324. Sole Dieppoise.  Lift the fillets from three me'dium-sized soles, 
put them in a buttered stewpan, with one very finely chopped shallot, 
moistening with half a glassful of white wine, and three tablespoonfuls of 
mushroom liquor. Cook for six minutes, then lay them on a dish, reduce 
the gravy to half, adding twelve cooked mussels, six mushroom buttons, 
and half a pint of good Allemande sauce (No. 2io). Thicken it well with 
a tablespoonful of butter, tossing till well dissolved, and throw it over 
the fillets with the juice of half a lemon. Serve with six croutons of 
fried bread (No. 133) around the dish. 

325. Skate or Rale an Naturel.  Pare and cut off the fins from half a 
skate weighing four pounds the half ; divide it into six square pieces, 
wash them well, being very careful to scrape it with a sharp knife, so as 
to remove the mucus adhering to it. Put the pieces into a saucepan in 
which are already placed one sliced carrot, one onion, half -x bunch of 
parsley-roots, one sprig of thyme, two bay -leaves, half a handful of 
whole peppers, plenty of salt  at least a handful  and half a cupful of 
vinegar. Cover it well with water, boil on a moderate fire for forty-five 
minutes, then take it off and lift up the pieces of skate with a. skimmer; 
lay them on a table, and remove the skin from both sides ; place them 
on a deep dish, and strain the stock slowly over, and use, whenever 
needed, with any kind of sauce desired. 

326. Shad, bsoiled maitre d'hotel. Pare and cut a small shad in 
two, scale it and remove the backbone ; lay it on a dish, sprinkling 



198' THE TABLE. 



it over with a' pinch of sale, and baste with one tablespoonful of oil. 
Leave it for a few moments, then broil it on a slow fire in a double broiler 
for about fifteen minutes on the flesh side, and for one minute on the skin 
side, leaving the roe in the inside. Put it on a hot dish, spread a gill of 
good maitre d'h6tel sauce (No. 177) over, and serve with six slices of 
lemon. 

327. Shad, with Sorrel.  Select a small, fine shad, pare and scale it, 
then let it steep as longas possible inamarinade composed of one tablespoon- 
ful of oil, half a sliced lemon, a quarter of a bunch of parsley-roots, and 
half it sliced onion. When ready, place it in a buttered stewpan, with 
half a glassful of white wine, three tablespoonlfuls of mushroom liquor, 
also a good bouquet (No. 254). Take two handfuls of picked and washed 
sorrel, mince it very fine, then put it in the stewpan with the fish, adding 
a good pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper ; cover it, and let it cook 
as long as possible on a slow fire  at least two hours; then arrange the 
shad on a dish. Add one tablespoonful of white roux (No. 135) to the 
juice, thicken well, and pour the sauce over the fish when serving, with 
some more of its own gravy in a sauce-bowl. 

328. Shad vert-pr^.^Pare and scale a small, fine shad, put it on a 
deep baking-dish, well buttered, and season with one pinch of salt and 
half a pinch of pepper, adding two finely chopped shallots and half a glass- 
ful of white wine. Cover with a piece of buttered paper, and cook in a 
moderate oven for twenty-five minutes. When done, put the juice in a 
saucepan, with half a pint of Allemande sauce (No. 210), a. pinch of finely 
chopped chervil, and a little spinach green (Breton essence, a saltspoon- 
ful). Let cook again for three minutes, then pour a little of it, through a 
Chinese strainer, on the fish, and serve the rest in a separate sauce-bowl. 

329. Broiled Fresh MaJekerel, maitre d'hotel.  Pare and split two 
good-sized, fresh mackerel through the back, remove the spine, score 
them slightly, and rub them with one tablespoonful of sweet oil ; season 
with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, then broil them on a brisk 
fire for ten minutes on the split side, and one minute on the skin side. 
Lay them on a dish, pour a gill of maitre d'h6tel butter (No. 145) over, 
and serve with a few parsley-greens and six slices of lemon. 

Broiled Spanish-mackerel are prepared in the same way. 

380. Mackerel en PaplUoteS. Oil three sheets of white paper a little 
larger than the length of the fish." Cut six thin slices of cooked, lean ham; 
lay one slice on each piece of paper, and on top a tablespoonful of cooked 
fine herb^ (No. 143). Select three mackerel; make four or five incisions 
on each side; season with a good pinch of salt and a pinch of pepper, 
divided evenly on both sides of the fish, then roll them lightly, and lay 
the mackerel on top of the fine herbs ; spread a tablespoonful more herbs 
over each mackerel, and cover with a slice of ham. Then lift up the other 
sifle of the paper and twist the edges together with the fingers, or a 
simpler way is to fold them the same as trout (No. 316). When ready, 
put them in a baking-sheet, place them in a moderate oyen, and let bake 
for fifteen minutes. Have a hot dish ready, and after taking them from 



FISH. 



igq 



the oven, use a cake-turner to lift the fish up gently, and dress them on 
the dish, leaving the paper undisturbed, then serve. 

331. Fresh Mackei-el aux Fines Herbes. Choose two fine, fresh 
mackerel, make six small incisions on both sides, and place them in a 
buttered baking-dish, with half a glassful of white wine, three tablespoon- 
fuls of mushroom liquor, a finely chopped shallot, and half a pinch of 
salt, with the third of a pinch of pepper. Cover with a piece of buttered 
paper, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes, then place the 
fish on a dish. Pour the gravy into a stewpan, adding two tablespo'onfuls 
of cooked fine herbs (No. 143), a pint of AUemande .sauce (No. 2io), and 
a pinch of chopped parsley. Thicken well with a tablespoonful of butter; 
stir well until dissolved, and pour it over the mackerel when serving. 
(All mackerel can be prepared the same way, only adding different sauces 
to the gravy.) 

332. Matelote of Eels. Pare and then cut one and a half pounds of 
eels into pieces two inches in length. When well washed, put them in 
a stewpan with one tablespoonful of butter; fry them for two minutes; 
add a glassful of red wine, a third of a. pinch of nutmeg, half a pinch of 
salt, and a third ot a pinch of pepper, also a bouquet (No. 254), a glassful 
of fish-stock (No. 214), or white broth (No. 99), and three tablespoonfuls 
of mushroom liquor. Add six small, glazed onions (No. 972), and six 
mushroom buttons. Cook for thirty minutes, then put in a tablespoon- 
ful of white roux (No. 135); stir well while cooking five minutes longer, 
and serve with six heart-shaped crofttons (No. 133). 

333. Matelote of Eels k la Farisiemie.  Proceed the same as for the 
above (No. 332), only Hft out the fish when cooked; reduce the sauce to 
half, adding three tablespoonfuls of Espagnole (No. 151), six mushroom 
buttons, six glazed onions (No. 972), and six fish quenelles (No. 227). 
Stir well while cooking two minutes longer, and serve with six fried 
pieces of bread garnished with Soubise (No. 250). 

334. Matelote of Eels h la Nonmtnde.  Cut one and a half pounds of 
eels into pieces, put them in a saucepan with a tablespoonful of butter; fry 
two minutes; add a glassful of white wine, and three tablespoonfuls of 
mushroom liquor. Season well with half a pinch each of salt and pepper, 
and a third of a pinch of nutmeg. Cook for ten minutes, then add half a 
pint of good veloutS (No. 152), six mushrooms, twelve blanched oysters, 
six fish quenelles (No. 227), and six small, cooked crawfish tails. Cook 
again for five minutes, and when ready to serve, beat in three egg yolks, 
but do not boil again, and garnish with six fried croutons (No. 133). 

335. Blanched Eels.  Select a pound and a half of well-skinned eels, cut 
them into pieces and tie them in rings; put them with cold water in a 
saucepan, with a good pinch of salt and a little vinegar, a sprig of thyme, 
two bay-leaves, twelve whole peppers, a quarter of a bunch of parsley- 
roots, one onion, and one carrot. Place them on a slow fire, and take them 
off before they boil; lay them in an earthen jar with the water they were 
boiled in. (These can be used for frying or boiling, according to need). 

336. Blueflsh h I'Icarieune.  ^^Scale and score two pounds of blue- 



200 THE TABLE. 



fish, place it on a well-buttered baking-dish, moistening with three table- 
spoonfuls of mushroom liquor and half a glassful of white wine. Season 
with half a pinch of salt and a third of a pinch of pepper, then cover with 
a buttered paper, and put to cook in a moderately heated oven for fifteen 
minutes; lift it out, lay it on a dish," and put the gravy into a stewpan, 
adding three tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce (No. 205) and half an ounce 
of finely minced, cooked, smoked beef-tongue. Boil for two minutes 
again, and throw the whole over the fish when serving. Garnish with 
six small, cooked crawfish, if any on hand. 

337. Blueflsh k I'ltalienne.  Score and scale two pounds of blue- 
fish; place it in a.buttered pan, with half a glassful of white wine, three 
tablespoonflils of mushroom liquor, half of a very finely chopped onion, 
and six chopped-up mushrooms. Season with a pinch of salt and half a 
pinch of pepper. Cover the fish with a buttered paper, and cook in a 
moderate oven for fifteen minutes; take the fish out, lay it on a serving 
dish, and put the juice in a stewpan, adding a gill of Espagnole sauce 
(No. 151), with a small glassful of. white wine; reduce for two minutes, 
then pour it over the fish, with one pinch of finely chopped parsley, and 
serve with six heart-shaped pifeces of crouton (No. 133}. ; ' 

338. Blueflsh k la Tenitieime.  Prepare the fish as for the above 
(No. 337), adding to it one tomato cut in pieces, half a pint of Espagnole 
sauce (No. 151) and six whole mushrooms. Besprinkle lightly with 
fresh bread-crumbs, and throw over all a few drops of clarified butter; 
put it in the oven for eight minutes, and serve with half a pinch of chopped 
parsley. > 

339. Sheep's-head &r la Creole.  Put one chopped onion and one very 
finely chopped green pepper  the seed extracted  in a stewpan; brown 
them in a half gill of oil for five minutes, then add one tomato, cut in 
pieces, four sliced mushrooms, a good bouquet (No. 254), and a clove of 
garlic. Season well with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, then 
moisten with half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151). Cut a fish weigh- 
ing three-pounds in six slices, lay them flat, in the stewpan, with three 
tablespoonfuls of mushroom liquor (if any handy), and lefcook for one 
hour on a very slow fire. When ready to serve, sprinkle ovef with a 
pinch of chopped parsley, and decorate with six pieces of heart-shaped 
croiiton (No. 133). (All fish a la Creole are prepared the same way, the 
time allowed for cooking depending on the firmness of the fish. The fish 
can be left whole instead of dividing in slices, if desired.) 

340. BouUle-k-Baisse, h. la Marseillaise.  Brown two sliced onions in 
a gill of oil for five minutes in a saucepan, then moisten with one quart 
of fish-stock (No. 214), adding a bouquet (No. 254), three cloves of garlic, 
bruised and minced exceedingly fine. Dilute a third of a pinch of powdered 
Spanish saffron in water, and add it to the gravy. Take one small eel, 
one very small bass, the same of sole, one raw lobster  in fact, all the 
firm fish ready at hand  cut them in slices, season with a pinch of salt 
and the third of a saltspoonful of cayenne pepper, and put them all together 
on a slow fire. Let cook for twenty minutes, and when ready, serve in a 



FISH. 201 

deep dish, on which you, previously arrange six pieces of toast from 
a French loaf of bread. 

N. B.  The above should be served exceedingly hot. 

341. Boss & la Bordelaise.  Cut a deep incision down the back of a 
three-pound sea-bass, put it in a. baking-dish with half a glassful of rtd 
wine, half a pinch of salt,' and a third of a pinch of pepper. Besprinkle 
with a finely chopped shallot, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a 
moderate oven for fifteen minutes. I,ay the bass on a dish, put the juice 
in a saucepan with a gill of good Espagnole (No. 151), four finely shred 
mushrooms, and a thin slice of finely chopped garlic; finish cooking for 
five minutes more, then pour it over the fish. Decorate with six cooked 
crawfish or shrimps, and serve very hot. 

342. Bass, with White Wine.  Lay a three-pound, well-cleaned tass 
on -a. well-buttered baking-dish; season with half a pinch of salt and a 
third of a pinch of pepper; moisten with half a glassful of white wine 
and three tablespoonfuls of mushroom liquor. Cover with a heavy piece 
of buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes, then 
lay the fish on a dish ; put the juice in a saucepan, with half a pint of good 
AUemande (No. 210), thicken well with a tablespoonful of butter till well 
dissolved, and throw it over the bass, serving with six heart-shaped 
croutons (No. 133). 

343. Bass & la Chambord.  Lift the middle skin from the back of a 
three-pound bass, leaving the head and tail covered; lard the fish nicely 
with a very small larding needle, and then lay it on a buttered, deep bak- 
ing-pan, adding to it half a glassful of white wine, and half a carrot, and 
half an onion, both sliced, also a bouquet (No. 254). Season with a 
pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, then cover with a. buttered 
paper; cook it in the oven for thirty minutes, being very careful to baste 
it frequently, then lift out the fish and lay it on a dish. Strain the gravy 
into a saucepan, with half a pint of Chambord garnishiiig (No. 212), 
moistened with half a pint of Espagnole (No. 151); reduce for five 
minutes. Decorate the dish with clusters of the garnishing, and three 
decorated fish quenelles (No. 227) to separate them, also three small, 
cooked crawfish, and serve. 

344. Salt Cod a la Biscaenne.  Take two pounds of boneless cod, and 
soak it in plenty of cold water for twenty-foui- hours, changing the water 
as often as possible. Place it in a saucepan with plenty of fresh water, 
then let simmer on a slow fire till boiling ; take it off, and drain it well; 
return it to the pan with fresh water, and let come to a boil again, then 
scale it by separating the bones. Fry together in a saucepan two chopped 
onions and one green pepper in a gill of oil. Let cook for five minutes, 
then add one good-sized tomato, cut in pieces, one clove of bruised garlic, 
and one Chili pepper. Moisten the fish with three pints of broth, add a 
bouquet (No. 254), three tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce (No. 205), and a pint 
of Parisian potatoes (No. 986). Let cook for forty-five minutes, then add 
the codfish; boil again for five minutes more. Dress it on a hot dish, and 
serve with a teaspoonful of chopped parsley sprinkled over. 



202 THE TABLE. 



345. Codfish, bonne femme.  Have two pounds of cooked, soaked, 
boneless cod; prepare it the same as for the above (No. 344), then put it in 
a saucepan, moistening with half a pint of bechamel (No. 154), and half a 
pint of Allemande (No. 210). Add three sliced potatoes, and three hard- 
boiled eggs, cut in thin slices, and half a pinch of pepper. (If too thick, 
put in a little milk.) Cook for about five minutes longer, then serve with 
a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 

346. Picked-up Codfish.  The same as for the above, only all the 
materials should be shred smaller, and add three tablespoonfuls of cream. 

347. Fish Balls.  Place in a large pan, with plenty of fresh water, 
three pounds of boneless codfish, and let soak for twelve hours. Drain, 

 and place it in a saucepan on the hot range, with plenty of cold water, 
and as soon as it begins to boil,, drain all the water through' a colander. 
Carefully pick out all the bones.from the cod, and return it to the saucepan, 
adding five medium-sized, well-washed, and peeled sliced potatoes, one gill 
of cold water, or broth, and cook on a moderate fire for twenty minutes, 
then add half an ounce of butter. Take from off the fire. Season with 
one pinch of white" pepper, then, with the aid of a potato-masher or a 
pounder, mash all well together right in the pan. Transfer it to a dish, 
and let cool. Make up small fish balls two inches in diameter by one inch 
thick, lightly sprinkle them with a very little flour. Heat in a frying-pan 
one gill of clarified butter; when very hot, put in the fish balls and fry 
for three minutes on each side, so as' to have them of a good brown color. 
Gently lift them from the pan with a skimmer, dress on a hot dish with a 
folded napkin, crown-shaped, one overlapping another. Decorate the cen- 
tre of the dish with parsley-greens, and serve. 

Pish Balls a la Mrs. Benjamin Harrison.  To be prepared exactly 
the same as above (No. 347), dressing them on six dry toasts, placing 
one poached egg (No. 404) on top of each fish ball, and decorating the 
dish with six slices of broiled bacon, and serve hot. 

348. How to Blanch Codflsh-tong:nes.  Procure eighteen fine, fresh 
codfish-tongues, wash them thoroughly in cold water, then drain, and place 
them in a saucepan on the hot stove; cover with fresh water, and season 
with a handful of salt, six cloves, twelve whole peppers, one sliced 6nion, 
a bouquet (No. 254), a.nd half a sliced lemon. Let them come to a boil, 
then transfer them with the water and garnishihgs to a stone jar, and 
use when needed. 

349. Codfish  tongues au beurre noir.  Take eighteen blanched 
codfish-tongues, as for No. 348, heat them in a saucepan with half a gill of 
their own juice, .but do riot let them boil; drain well, then dress them on 
a hot dish, pour a pint of black butter (No. 159) over, and decorate each 
side of the dish with a few sprigs of parsley, then send to the table. 

350. Pried Codfish-tongues.  Take eighteen fine, fresh codfish-tongues, 
wash them well, drain them in a napkin, dip them in cold milk, and roll 
them, one by one, in flour. Put one gill of clarified butter in the frying- 
-pan, heat it, well, then gently lay in the tongues separately, and let cook 

for three minutes. Turn them on the other side, using a fork, and cook 



FISH. 203 

for three minutes more. Lift them up carefully with a skimmer, and put 
them on a cloth to drain. Season with one pinch of salt and half a pinch 
of pepper; dress them on a hot dish with a folded napkin, and decorate 
with sprigs of parsley. Serve a gill of hot tomato sauce (No. 205) in a 
separate bowl. 

351. Codflsll-tongnes ^ la poulette.  Take eighteen blanched tongues, 
as for No. 34S, put them in -a. saucepan on the stove, adding a pint of 
sauce HoUandaise (No. l6o), half a gill of their own stock, and a tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley. Heat well for five minutes without boiling, 
then pour the whole into a deep, hot dish, sprinkle a little chopped 
parsley over them, and serve. 

352. Boiled Codfish, Oyster Sauce.  Cover a three-pound fresh cod- 
fish with well-salted fish-stock (No. 214), and let cook thirty minutes without 
boiling ; then take it out and drain it well. Lay it on a dish, and garnish 
with a few branches of parsley-greens, and twelve pieces of potato ^ 
I'Anglaise (No. 9S8). Seirve with three-quarters of a pint of oyster sauce 
(No. 173) separately. (All codfish with different sauces are prepared the 
same way.) 

353. Broiled Boned Smelts h la B^amaise.  Split twelve good-sized 
or eighteen medium-sized smelts up the back, remove the backbone, rub 
them with one tablespoonful of oil, and season with half a pinch of salt 
and a third of a pinch of pepper. Broil them in a double broiler for -two 
minutes on each side; pour a Jittle more than a gill of good Bfearnaise 
sauce (No. l65) on a dish, arrange the smelts carefully on top, and serve, 
finishing with a very little demi-glace sauce (No. 181) around the dish. 

354. Smelts k la Tonlonse.  Take twelve large or eighteen medium- 
sized smelts, bone them as for the above, and then close them up again. 
Put them in a stewpan, with half a glassful of white wine and three 
tablespoonfuls of mushroom liquor; season with half a pinch of salt and 
the third of a pinch of pepper, and cook on a moderate fire for six minutes. 
Arrange the smelts on a dish, add to the sauce twelve mushroom buttons, 
two sliced truffles, six fish quenelles (No. 227), and moisten with half a 
pint of AUemande sauce (No. 210). Thicken with a tablespoonful of but- 
ter sufficiently, and throw the sauce over the smelts. Neatly dress the 
garnishing around the dish, and serve with six heartTshaped croiitons (No. 
133). (Smelts are all prepared the same way, only adding different 
garnishings.) 

355. Stuffed Smelts.  Cut off the fins, wash, and dry well with a 
towel, eighteen fine, fresh, medium-sized, Long Island smelts ; remove the 
eggs without splitting the stomachs open, then fill them with  fish force- 
meat (No. 227), using*a paper cornet for the purpose. Lay the smelts on 
a well-buttered silver baking-dish (if possible), and cover them with a 
pint of sauce Italienne (No. 188). Put them in a, hot oven and let bake 
for eight minutes ; remove them, squeeze the juice of a good lemon over, 
and lay the silver dish on top of another to avoid soiling the table-cloth; 
then serve. 

356. Smelts au Gratin.  Clean eighteen smelts, wipe them very dry, 



204 ^'^-^ TABLM. 



and put them on a baking-dish with two tablespoo'nfuls of cooked fine 
herbs (No. 143), half a glassful of white wine, half a pinch of salt, and a 
third of a pinch of pepper. . Cover with six whole mushrooms and half a 
pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151). Besprinkle lightly with fresh bread- 
crumbs and six drops of melted butter ; place it in a hot oven for ten 
minutes, and serve with the juice of half a lemon, also a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley sprinkled over. (The smelts can be boned if so desired). 

357. Lobster ^ I'AmMcaine.  Split two fine, good-sized, freshly 
boiled lobsters; remove all the meat carefully, then cut it up into pieces one 
inch in length. Have a pan on the hot range with half a gill of good olive 
oil, and w^hen the oil is very hot add the pieces of lobster. Chop very 
fine one medium-sized, peeled onion, one fine, sound, green pepper, and half 
a clove of peeled, very sound garlic; add all to the lobster, and let cook 
for five minutes, gently mixing meanwhile. Season with a pinch of salt and 
half a saltspoonful of red pepper, adding also half a wine-glassful of good 
white wine. Reduce for two minutes, then add one gill of tomato sauce 
(No. 205) and one medium-sized, sound, red, peeled tomato, cut into small 
dice-shaped pieces. Cook for ten minutes longer, gently shuffling mean- 
while. Pour the whole into a very hot, deep dish, or in a hot tureen, and 
serve. 

358. Lobster with Curry.  Pick out all the meat from two good- 
sized, fine, freshly boiled, and split lobsters. Cut the meat up in one- 
inch-length equal pieces. Have a saucepan on the hot range with an 
ounce oi very good butter ; add the lobster to it, and let cook for five 
minutes. Season with one pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper. Place 
in a bowl one tablespoonful of Indian curry, with half a wine-glassful of 
good white wine, mix well together, then pour it into the lobster. Cook 

- for two minutes. Add two gills of hot AUemdnde sauce (No. 210), shuffle 
briskly for one minute longer. Make a border of fresh-boiled rice all 
around the' hot dish ; dress the lobfeter right in the centre of the dish, and 
serve hot. 

359. Lobster h, la Newbnrg.  Split two good-sized, fine, freshly boiled 
lobsters. Pick all the meat out from the shells, then cut it into one-inch- 
length equal pieces. Place it in a saucepan on the hot range with one 
ounce of very good, fresh butter. Season with one pinch of salt and half 
a saltspoonful of red pepper, adding two medium-sized, sound truffles cut 
into small dice-shaped pieces. Cook for five minutes ; then add a wine- 
glassful of good Madeira wine. Reduce to one-half, which will take 
three minutes. Have three egg yolks in a bowl with half a pint of sweet 
cream, beat well together, and add it to the lobster. Gently shuffle for 
two minutes longer, or until it thickens well. Poup it into a hot tureen, 
and serve hot. 

360. Lobster k la Bordelaise.  Add to one glassful of red wine in a 
stewpan one chopped shallot, and half of a small carrot cut into exceed- 
ingly small pieces. Boil/ for five minutes, and then put in pieces of boiled 
lobster, the same quantity as for the above  about a pound and a half  a 
pinch of salt, a third of a pinch of pepper and a very little nutmeg, also 



FISH. 



205 



half a pint of veloutfe (No. 152). Stew well together for five minutes, 
then serve. 

361. Lobster en Bi-ochette au Petit Sale.  Take one and a half pounds 
of fresh, shelled, boiled lobster, cut it into two-inch-square, even pieces, 
lay them in a bowl, then season with a good pinch of salt, a pinch of pep- 
per, the third of a pinch of nutmeg, and a tablespoonful of Parisian sauce, 
and mix all well together. Have six silver skewers, arrange in the centre 
of one a piece of lobster, then a mushroom, another piece of lobster and 
another mushroom; continue the same for the other skewers, then place ' 
them on the broiler and broil for eight minutes, turning them over care- 
fully once in a while. Remove them from the broiler, dress them on a 
hot dish, pour a gill of maitre d'h6tel- butter (No. 145) over, decorate with 
six slices of broiled bacon (No. 754), and serve very hot. 

362. Lobster en Cherreuse.  To two finely chopped shallots in a stew- 
pan add one glassful of Madeira wine, one ounce of butter, and a pound 
and a half of pieces of boiled lobster ; moisten with one pint of velout6 
(No. 152), and season with a pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and a 
very little nutmeg. Let boil for ten minutes, and with this preparation 
fill six table-shells, or, better still, six small St. Jacques-shells ; on 
top of each lay three slices of truffle and one tablespoonful of good 
bechamel (No. 154). Put one drop of clarified butter over each, and 
place them in the oven for five minutes. Serve very hot on a folded 
napkin. 

363. Broiled Lobster k la Bavigote.  Cut three small, raw lobsters 
into two equal parts, taking out the gravel from the head, season with one 
pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, and rub with a very little oil, then 
broil the pieces for ten minutes. Take them from the fire, and remove 
the meat from the head of the lobsters and put it in a salad-bowl with 
half a pint of ravigote butter CNo. 147), and mix vrell together ; take the 
meat from the balance of the lobster, dip it in the sauce, and return it to 
its shell; warm again for two minutes in the oven, then serve on a folded 
napkin, garnishing the shells with parsley-greens, and serving the sauce 
in a sauce-bowl. 

364. Broiled Lobster.  Select three medium-sized, good, live lobsters, 
split them in halves, and take out the stony pouch and intestines ; glaze 
them slightly with sweet oil, and season them with half a pinch of 
salt and half a pinch of pepper, and then broil them for seven minutes on 
each side. Place them on a dish, moisten with a gill of good maitre d'h6tel 
(No. 145), then serve. 

365. Lobster Croquettes.  Make some lobster forcemeat (No. 222); 
form it into the shape of six pears with the hand, roll them in bread- 
crumbs (No. 301), and fry in very hot fat for three minutes ; drain well, 
then serve on a folded napkin, garnishing with parsley-greens, and add 
any sauce required in a sauce-bowl. 

Salmon croquettes to be prepared the same way, substituting minced, 
boiled salmon for the lobster forcemeat. 

366. Lobster Cutlets, Victoria.  The same as for the above, only 



2o6 THE TABLE. 



giving them the shape of a chop, and when serving stick a lobster leg in 
the point of each one. 

367. Stuffed Lobster.  Fill six empty lobster--tails with forcemeat 
(No. 222), roll them in bread-crumbs, put them on a baking-dish, smooth- 
ing the surface with the blade of a knife ; place them in a baking-pan. 
Pour a little clarified butter over, and brown gently in the oven for six 
minutes, and serve on a folded napkin with a garnishing of parsley- 
greens. 

868. Fried Soft -shelled Crabs.  Procure six good-sized, live, soft- 
shelled' crabs, cleanse and wash them thoroughly, and dip each one in flour, 
then in beaten egg, and finally in rasped bread-crumbs or pulverized crack- 
ers, using them very lightly. Fry in very hot fat for five minutes, drain, 
season with one pinch of salt, evenly divided, and serve on a. hot dish 
with a folded napkin with fried parsley around. 

369. Broiled Soft  shelled Crabs. Have six good-sized, fresh, soft- 
shelled crabs, cleanse and wash them well, then drain them, oil them 
slightly, and season with a pinch of salt and ha.lf a pinch of pepper. Put 
them on the broiler, and broil for five minutes on each side. Have six 
pieces of toast ready, lay a crab on top of each, slightly glaze them with a 
little maitre d'hotel butter (No. 145), and serve. This makes a delicious 
dish, but must be Served very hot. 

370. Hard-shelled Crabs k la Diable.  Fill six thoroughly cleaned 
crab-shells with some crabforcemeat (No. 223), flatten them with the hand, 
besprinkle with fresh bread-crumbs, smooth the surface with the blade of 
a knife, moistening the top with a very little clarified butter. Place thetn 
on a baking-pan, a:nd bake a little brown for six minutes. Serve on ahot 
dish with a folded napkin decorated with parpley-greens. 

371. Crabs k la St. Jean.  Add double the quantity of onions to some 
crab forcemeat (No. 223), also garlic, parsley, and chervil (let the crabs 
be in as large pieces as possible). Then, as for No. 362, fill six St. Jacques- 
shells, besprinkle with fresh bread-crumbs, smooth the surface with 
the blade of a knife, moisten slightly with clarified butter, and bake in a 
brisk oven for six minutes. Serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin dec- 
orated with parsley-greens. 

372. Crabs Si la St. Lanrent.  Reduce half a pint of good veloutfi 
(No. 152) with half a glassful of white wine, season with one pinch of 
salt, half a pinch of pepper, and a very little cayenne pepper, adding three 
tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese. Take three-quarters of a 
pound of shelled crabs, put them in the saucepan, and boil them for ten 
minutes; then lift from the fire and let cool. Prepare six squares of 
toasted bread, and with a knife spread some of the mixture smoothly over 
each slice, sprinkle well with grated cheese, and moisten slightly with 
clarified butter ; place them on a baking-dish ; bake in a very hot oven for 
three minutes, and serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin, garnished 
with parsley-greens. 

378. Crabs k PAnglaise.  Pick twelve boiled, hard-shelled crabs in as 
large pieces as possible; mix them in a salad-b'owl with half a cupful of 



FISH. 207 

the white of celery or finely shred lettuce leaves, one pinch of salt, half a 
pinch of pepper, one tablespoonful of olive oil, and one and a half table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar. Refill six well-cleaned shells with the salad, and 
on each one lay a good teaspoonful of mayonnaise sauce (No, 206), 
sprinkled over with one hard-boiled, finely chopped egg, the yolk and 
white separated, some crab or lobster coral, and a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley, every article to be used separately, so they have each a different 
color. Serve on a dish with a folded napkin. 

374. Oyster-crabs il la Ponlette.  Take one and a half pints of oyster- 
crabs, and proceed the same as for oysters ^ la poulette (No. 383). 

375. Fried Oyster-crabs.  Wash well, and dry one and a half pints 
of oyster-crabs, dip them in fiour, then in cold milk, and finally in cracker- 
dust; shake them well in a colander, and fry in hot fat for three minutes; 
serve in shells made of foundation paste, or short paste for tarts (No. 
1078), garnishing with parsley-leaves, and sprinkling a very little, salt on 
top. 

376. Stuffed Clams. Refill six good-sized, very clean clam-shells with 
clam forcemeat (No. 223), and prepare them tl\e same as stuffed crabs 
(No. 370). 

377. Clams ^ la Marinl^re.  Open and remove thirty-six small clams 
from their shells; put them in a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, 
one pinch of chives, and one pinch of finely chopped chervil; add half a 
cupful of water, so they will not be too salty, with half a pinch of pepper, 
and two tablespoonfuls of fresh bread-crumbs. Boil for two minutes, and ' 
serve with the juice of half a lemon. 

378. Mussels a la Marini^re.  Steam in a stewpan thirty-six mussels 
for ten minutes, and proceed as for No. 377, leaving a mussel in each 
half shell. 

379. Mussels k la Poulette.  Steam in a stewpan thirty-six mussels 
for ten minutes, and proceed the same as oysters i la poulette (No. 383), 
leaving a mussel in each half shell. 

380. Ried Oysters. Procure twenty-four large freshly opened oys- 
ters, or thirty-six of medium size, dip each one separately in flour, then in 
beaten egg, and lastly in powdered cracker-dust. Fry in very hot fat for 
four minutes, drain well, and serve on a hot dish'with a folded napkin, 
sprinkling over a very little salt, and garnishing with fried parsley-leaves. 

381. Oysters k la Villeroi.  Blanch twenty-four large oysters in their 
own juice for two minutes, then drain them; take some chicken forcemeat 
(No. 226), spread it over both sides of the oysters, dip in egg and fresh 
bread-crumbs, then fry in hot lard for three minutes, and serve with fried 
parsley. 

382. Broiled Oysters.  Dip twenty-four large 'and freshly opened 
oysters in half bread-crumbs and half cracker-dust; flatten them with the 
hand, and broil them on a well-greased broiler for two minutes on each 
side, then salt them slightly, and serve on six pieces of toast; lightly glaze 
them with maltre d'h6tel sauce on top (No. 177). 

383. Oysters k la Poulette.  Put thirty-six freshly opened oysters in 



2o8 THE table: 



a saucepan with a little of their own juice, one ounce of butter, half a pinch 
of salt, and the same of pepper; parboil for three minutes, adding half a 
pint of HoUandaise sauce (No. i6o), stew well together for two minutes 
again, but do not let boil, and add one teaspoonful of chopped parsley and 
the juice of half a lemon. Stir slightly, and serve. 

384. Oysters a la Fompadonr.  Proceed the same as for No. 383, 
suppressing the parsley, and adding two chopped truffles. 

385. Oysters en Brochette an Petit Sal6.  Place twenty-four freshly 
opened oysters in a stewpan with their own juice; season with a very 
little salt, half a pinch of pepper; parboil for two minutes. Take six 
skewers and pass them through the oysters, separating each one, by a 
small square of cooked bacon  that is, alternating each oyster with a pieqe 
of the bacon  besprinkle with grated, fresh bread-crumbs, and broil for one 
and a half minutes pn each side. Serve with half a gill of mattre d'hotel 
sauce (No. 177) poured over, and a bunch of parsley-leaves spread on 
both sides of the dish. 

386. Oysters \ la Mali.  Chop an onion very fine; place it in a stew- 
pan with one ounce of butter, and let it get a good golden color, then add 
a tablespoonful of cooked, finely minced spinach, also a small glassful of 
white wine. Have eighteen medium-sized oysters chopped exceedingly 
small, and seasoned with a pinch of salt, and the same of pepper; place 
these in the stewpan, and let cook for fifteen minutes. Put in one whole 
egg, also a bruised clove of garlic; stir; then take six large, clean oyster- 
shells; fill the bottoms with a bed of three parboiled oysters, cover them 
with the spinach mixture, and besprinkle with fresh bread-crumbs. Flat- 
ten the tops with the blade of a knife, pour a very little clarified, butter 
over, and put them for three minutes in the oven. Serve on a folded 
napkin, garnishing with parsley-leaves. 

387. Oyster Fatties.  Take twenty-four medium-sized oysters (the 
least salted oysters are better for this purpose), put them in a stewpan 
with their own liquor, and add half a pinch of pepper. Cover, and let 
cook for two minutes; then take half the liquor out, and add to the 
oysters three-quarters of a pint of bfechamel sauce (No. 154), and a very 
little grated nutmeg; simmer for two minutes, but do not let boil. Take 
six hot patties (No. ^6), fill them up with four oysters each, pour the 
sauce over, and place the covers on top. Serve on a dish with a folded 
napkin. 

388. Stewed Oysters h, la Baltimore.  Open neatly thirty-six medium- 
sized, fresh Rockaway oysters; place them in a saucepan without their 
juice, adding one ounce of good butter; cover the pan, put it on the stove, 
and let cook for two minutes, then add a small glassful of good Madeira 
wine (about a cocktail glass) and a very little cayenne pepper. Cook 
together for two minutes longer, then add one gill of Espagnole sauce 
(No. 151) and one gill of demi-glace (No. 185). Stir thoroughly until 
boiling, and just before serving squeeze in the juice of a good lemon, 
add half an ounce of good butter, also a teaspoonful of finely chopped 
parsley, and serve immediately in a hot tureen, 



FISH. 



209 



389. Soft Clams ii la George Menill. Have thirty-six fresh and 
rather small soft clams, throw away all the hard part, keeping nothing but 
the body. Place them in a stewpan with two ounces of butter, half a 
pinch of pepper, a finely chopped shallot, and half a glassful of Madeira 
wine. Let cook on the hot stove for seven minutes, then add a gill of 
Espagnole sauce (No. 151), a pinch of chopped parsley, the juice of a 
medium-sized, good lemon, and half an ounce of good butter, shuffling 
the whole well for three minutes longer, without letting it boil, then pour 
the clams into a hot tureen, and serve. 

390. Soft ClaillS k la Newblirgr.  Procure forty-two very fresh, soft 
clams, so that no sand should adhere to them after they are opened; lay 
them carefully in the palm of the left hand, and with the fingers of the 
right remove the body gently, but nothing else, being very careful not to 
break it, and throw away all that remains. When they are all prepared, 
place them in a stewpan with an ounce of good butter, half a pinch of white 
pepper, a wine-glassful of good Madeira wine, and two finely hashed, 
medium-sized truffles. Put on the cover, and let cook gently for eight 
minutes. Break three egg yolks into a bowl, add a pint of sweet cream; 
beat well for three minutes, then pour it over the clams; turn well the 
handle of the saucepan for two or three minutes, very gently shuffling the 
clams, but it must not boil again or the clams will break, and be very 
careful not to use either a spoon or fork. Pour them into a hot tureen, 
and send to the table at once. 

391. Canape Lorenzo.  Cut out from an American bread six slices, 
the width of the bread, one-quarter of an inch in thickness; neatly pare off 
the crust, fry them in a sautoire with half an ounce of butter, so as to have 
them of a light brown color. Boil eighteen hard-shelled crabs in salted 
water for twelve minutes, remove them, and let cool until they can be 
handled with bare hands; then remove the upper shell, and with the aid of 
a pointed knife pick out all the meat; crack both claws, pick the meat out 
also; place the meat on a plate, season with a tablespoonful of salt and a 
saltspoonful of red pepper. Place one ounce of butter in a saucepan with 
half a medium-sized,' sound, peeled, and very finely chopped-up onion. 
Cook on a moderate fire for two minutes, being very careful not to let get 
brown. Add two tablespoonfuls of flour, stirring constantly for two min- 
utes; then add one gill of broth, stir well again for five minutes while 
slowly cooking. Add now the crab-meat, and cook for fifteen minutes 
more, lightly stirring with a wooden spoon once in awhile. Transfer it 
into a vessel, and let cool for fifteen minutes. Place a tablespopnful of 
good butter in a sautoire on a hot stove, mix in well together one table- 
spoonful of flour, and cook very slowly for three minutes. Add two 
ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and the same quantity of grated Swiss 
cheese; stir all well together. Then place in a vessel and let cool. Place 
a layer of crab forcemeat on each toast a quarter of an inch thick. Divide 
the prepared cheese, etc., into six equal parts, giving them a ball-shaped 
form two inches in diameter Arrange them over the layer of the crab 
forcemeat right in the centre. Place them on a silver dish, and bake in a 

14 



2IO THE TABLE. 



brisk oven for five minutes. Then take out from the oven, and send to 
the table in the same dish. 

892. Scallops Brestoise.  Blanch in one ounce of butter for ten min- 
utes, and then drain, one pint of scallops; chop up two onions, and put 
them in a saucepan with an ounce of butter; when brown add one table- 
spoonful of flour, stirring carefully, and moisten with ha4f a pint of the 
scallop liquor; if none, white broth (No. gg) will answer. Let reduce while 
stirring, then season with a good pinch of salt, and half a pinch of white 
pepper, also a very little cayenne pepper; add the chopped scallops, four 
egg yolks) and a bruised clove of garlic, also half a cupful of fresh bread- 
crumbs, and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Stir well for two min- 
utes, then put it in a dish and lay aside to cool. Fill six scallop-shells, or 
St. Jacques-shells with this, besprinkle the tops with fresh bread-crumbs, 
moisten slightly with clarified butter, and lay them on a baking-sheet; 
ibrown them nicely in the oven for five minutes, and serve on a hot dish 
with a folded napkin garnished with parsley-leaves. 

893. Edible Snails k la Bourgnignoime.  Have some fine Bourgogne 
snails; disgorge them well with a little salt for two or three days, then 
wash them several times in cold water, strain, and place them in a stew- 
pan, covering them with water. Add a bouquet (No. 254), some cloves and 
whole pepper tied in a cloth, and sufficient salt; cook until the snails fall 
from their shells, and then empty them, clipping off their tails; clean the 
shells well. Mix together some good butter, shallots, parsley, and 
chervil, the whole chopped very fine; put it in a bowl with as much fresh 
bread-crumbs, and a small glassful of white wine; season to taste with 
salt and pepper, and knead well. Fill each shell with a little of this mix- 
ture, replace the snails, and finish filling with more of the kneaded butter; 
spread bread-crumbs over, and lay them on a baking-dish, the opened part 
on the top. Brown in the oven for four minutes, and serve on a dish with 
a folded napkin. 

394. Edible SnaUs ik I'ltalienne.  Prepare the snails as for the above, 
leaving them in their shells; drain, and put them in a saucepan with white 
wine and a little strong Espagnole sauce (No. 151), a few chopped, fried 
onions and finely minced mushrooms. Season well with a pinch o| salt, 
cook for a few minutes, and serve. 

895. Edible Snails k la Pl'oveneale.  Prepare the snails as for No. 
393! fi'y ^ little chopped onion with oil, add the snails taken from the 
shells, a little white wine, two cloves of chopped garlic, a little fresh bread- 
crumbs, and chopped parsley. Cook, add the juice of a lemon; then serve. 

396. Ten-apui k la Baltimore.  Prepare two medium-sized terrapins 
as for No. 60, make half a pint of mirepoix (No. 138), add to it a table- 
spoonful of flour, let cook for fifteen minutes, then moisten with half a 
glassful of Madeira wine, and a. cupful of strong broth. Stir well, and 
constantly, then season with half a pinch of salt, and a very little cayenne, 
pepper; reduce to half. Cut the terrapin into small pieces, throwing the 
ends of the claws away; put them in a stewpan, straining the sauce over, 
and finish with an ounce of fresh butter, also the juice of a lemon. 



FISH. 2 I I 

397. Terrapin & la Maryland.  Carefully cut up two terrapins as 
described in No. 60; place them in a saucepan witli half a wine-glass of 
good Madeira wine, half a pinch of salt, and a very little cayenne pepper, 
also an ounce of good butter. Mix well a cupful of good, sweet cream 
with the yolks of three boiled eggs, and add it to the terrapin, briskly 
shuffling constantly, while thoroughly heating, but without letting it come 
to a boil. Pour into a hot tureen, and serve very hot. 

Terrapin Si la Newburg is prepared exactly the same as above (No. 
397), only substituting two raw egg yolks for th6 three boiled egg yolks, 
and adding two sound, sliced truffles while heating. 

398. BrcUed Frogs.  Selecteighteengood-sized, fine, fresh frogs pare 
off the feet neatly, then lay the frogs on a dish, and pour two tablespoon- 
fuls of sweet oil over, season with a pinch of salt and a pinch of pepper, 
and squeeze in the juice of a fresh lemon. Roll them around several times 
in their seasoning, then place them nicely on the broiler, and broil them 
for four minutes on each side. Take them off, and dress them on a hot 
dish, pouring a gill of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 145) over, and send to 
the table immediately. 

399 Frogs ^ la Ponlette.  Procure eighteen pieces of medium-sized, 
fine, fresh frogs; pare oft the claws, then place the frogs in a sautoire with 
two ounces of butter, seasoning with a pinch of salt and a pinch of pepper. 
Add half a glassful of white wine, cover, and let cook on a brisk stove for 
five minutes, then add a pint of Hollandaise sauce (No. 160)', and two tea- 
spoonfuls of finely chopped parsley, and a little lemon juice ; mix well for 
two minutes, but do not let it boil again ; then serve the frogs on a very 
hot dish. 

400. Flied Frogs.  Select eighteen fine, fresh, medium-sized frogs ; 
trim off the claws neatly, and put the frogs in a bowl. Marinade them with 
a tablespoonful of vinegar, the same of sweet oil, a pinch of salt and a pinch 
of pepper ; mix well together in the bowl, then immerse them in frying 
batter (No. 1185). Plunge the frogs into very hot fat, one by one, and let 
fry for five minutes ; then drain, and dress them on a hot dish with a 
folded napkin, decorating with a little parsley-greens. Serve with any 
desired sauce. 

401. Frogs k I'Espagnole.  Trim nicely eighteen fine, fresh, medium- 
sized frogs' feet; lay the frogs in a sautoire on the hot stove with two ounces 
of good butter, season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, and 
add half a, glassful of white wine. Let cook for five minutes, then put in 
it half an empty green pepper and two freshly peeled tomatoes, all cut up 
into small pieces ; cook for ten minutes longer, then dress the frogs on a 
hot dish, and send to the table. 

' 402. Broiled Shad's Roe, with Bacon. Procure six pieces of fresh 
shad's roe, wipe them thoroughly with a towel, then lay them on a dish, 
and season with a good pinch of salt and two tablespoonfuls of sweet oil. 
Roll them gently to avoid breaking, then arrange them on a broiler, and 
broil them for six minutes on each side. Take them off the fire, lay them 
on a hot dish, and pour a, gill of maitre d'h6tel butter (No. 145) over; 



212 THE TABLE. 



decorate with six slices of broiled bacon (No. 754), and six quarters of 
lemon ; then send to the table. " 

403. Broiled Sardines on Toast.  Select twelve good-sized, fine, and 
firm sardines ; arrange them in a double broiler, and broil for two minutes 
on each side on a very brisk fire. Place six fresh, dry toasts on a hot dish, 
lay the sardines over, being careful not to break them, pour half a gill of 
maltre d'hotel butter (No. 145) over, decorate with six quarters of lemon, 
and serve. 

A pinch of salt represents 205 grains, or a tablespoonful. 

Half a pinch of pepper represents 38 grains, or a teaspoonful. 

A third of a pinch of nutmeg represents 13 grains, or half a, tea- 
spoonful. 



E^GGS . 



404. Poached.  Boil in a deep saucepan three quarts of water with a 
heavy pinch of salt and three drops of vinegar. Have easily at hand 
twelve fresh eggs. When, and only when, the water boils, rapidly but 
carefully crack six of them, one by one. As .success to have them in 
proper shape and cooked to perfection depends upon how they are handled, 
special care should be taken to crack them as rapidly as possible, care- 
fully avoiding to break the yolks, and dropping each one right on the 
spot where the water bubbles, and as near the boiling-point as possible. 
Poach for one minute and a quarter from the time that the water, boils 
after the eggs were put in. Lift them up with a skimmer, lay them on 
the freshly prepared toasts, or use for any other desired purpose; and 
repeat the same with the other six. If handled strictly as above de- 
scribed you will have them to perfection, and no necessity of trimming 
any superfluous adherings; serve when required. 

405. Scrambled Eggs.  Melt three ounces of butter in a saucepan, 
break into it twelve fresh eggs ; season with a pinch of salt, half a pinch 
of pepper, and a third of a pinch of grated nutmeg. Mix thoroughly 
without stopping for three minutes, using a spatula, and having the pan 
on a very hot stove. Turn into a warm tureen, add a little verjuice or 
lemon juice, and send to the table very hot. 

406. Scrambled Eggs with Asparagns-tops.  To be prepared exactly 
the same as for No. 405. After the eggs have been well mixed with 
butter in the pan, there is added a quarter of a bunch of freshly boiled 
asparagus-tops. 

407. Scrambled Eggs with Tmffles.  Place in a saucepan four good- 
sized, sliced truffles with a glassful of Madeira wine. Reduce to about 
half, which will take two minutes ; add a tablespoonful of butter ; season 
with one pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper. Crack into the saucepan 



EGGS. 2 I 3 

twelve eggs, mix all well together with the spatula for three minutes on a 
very hot stove without stopping. Turn into a hot tureen and serve. 

408. Scrambled Eggs with Smoked Beef.  Fry in a sautoire for one 
minute two ounces of finely minced smolced beef. Scramble twelve eggs 
as for No. 405, mixing with the above prepared beef. Any kind of gar- 
nishing may be added to the scrambled eggs. 

409. Scrambled Eggs with Chicory. Blanch for fifteen minutes a 
good-sized head of chicory; drain it and cut it into one-inch lengths. Put 
these in a saucepan on the hot stove with an ounce of butter and one minced 
onion, fry, and then moisten with half a pint of broth (No. gg), adding a 
pinch of salt and half a. pinch of pepper. Let coolc until all the liquid is 
evaporated (which will take from twenty to twenty-two minutes). Break 
twelve eggs into a saucepan, add the chicory and anpther ounce of butter, 
then scramble with a spatula all together for four minutes, and serve with 
heart-shaped bread croutons (No. 133) around the dish. 

410. Eggs il la liTingstone.  Cover"six pieces of cut toast with pat6- 
de-foie-gras, lay them on a dish, and pour twelve scrambled eggs over 
(No. 405), add two tablespoonfuls of demi-glace around the dish and 
serve (No. 185). 

411. Eggs k la Bonrgnignoime.  Place in a saucepan one tablespoon- 
ful of meat-glaze with one pint of broth (No. gg), or consomm6 (No. 100). 
Boil, then crack into it two fresh eggs, and poach for one and a quarter 
minutes. Carefully lift up with a skimmer, and gently lay them on a hot 
silver dish. Repeat the same operation with ten more, two at a time ; 
when all on the dish, sprinkle over them an ounce of grated Parmesan 
cheese. Place in the hot oven to brown for one minute. Reduce the 
gravy in which they were poached to one-half, then carefully pour the 
sauce around the eggs, but not over them, and serve hot. 

412. Fried Eggs.  Place in a frying-pan on the hot range three 
tablespoonfuls of very good sweet oil, heat it well, then carefully break 
into it one fresh egg, being careful not to break the yolk, and with the aid 
of a table knife fold the white right over the yolk, cook for a quarter of a 
minute, turn it over with a cake-turner ; cook for a quarter of a minute 
on the other side, lift it up with the cake-turner, dress on a hot dish with 
a folded napkin. Proceed precisely the same way with eleven more, and 
then they will be ready to serve for any purpose desired. 

N. B.  Mix one pinch of salt, and half a pinch of white pepper, and as 
soon as the eggs are dressed on the dish season each one evenly with it ; 
taking special care to cook them separately, and no more than a quarter 
of a minute on each side. 

413. Fried Eggs for Garnishing,  Pour half a gill of sweet oil into 
the frying-pan ; when the oil is hot break in one egg, carefully closing up 
the white part with a skimmer, so as to have it firm, and in a single form. 
Only one at the time should be cooked, and two minutes will be sufficient. 

414. Eggs an Beurre Noir.  Put one ounce of butter in a frying-pan 
on the hot stove, let heat well, but not brown; break gently into a. dish 
twelve very fresh eggs, slide them carefully into the pan, then season 



214 "^^^ TABLE. 



with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of white pepper; let cook slowly for 
three minutes. Have ready a hot, flat dish, slide the eggs gently onto it, 
without turning them over, and be careful to avoid breaking them; lay 
the dish containing the eggs in a warm place. Put two ounces of butter 
in the same pan, place it on the hot stove, and let the butter get a good 
brown color for three minutes, then drop in two teaspoonfuls of vinegar. 
Pour this over the eggs, and send them to the table. 

415. Eggs au Soleil.  Put two tablespoonfuls of lard in a frying-pan 
on the hot stove, break in twelve fresh eggs, dropping them in carefully, 
one by one; let them cook for two minutes, then with a skimmer take 
each one up separately and lay it carefully on a dry cloth. Have some 
fritter-batter (No. iigo) ready, cut a piece of half-cooked bacon into small, 
square pieces of about an inch, and add them to the batter, then dip in 
the eggs, one after the other, taking up with each one a piece of the bacon, 
and with the fingers drop them into very hot grease, and cook to a good 
golden color for two minutes. Lift them up with the skimmer, lay them 
on a dry cloth to drain; sprinkle over half a pinch of salt, dress on a hot 
dish with a folded napkin, and serve. 

416. Eggs k la Bechamel.  Pour one pint of bfechamel (No. 154) into 
a saucepan, and put it on the hot stove. Cut twelve hard-boiled eggs 
in halves, add them to the hot bfechamel ; season with half a pinch of 
white pepper, and let heat thoroughly for three minutes, but be careful 
not to let it boil. Add one ounce of butter and a saltspoonful of grated 
nutmeg, then pour it on/a hot serving-dish, and serve with six heart-shaped 
croutons (No. 133). 

417. Eggs k la Panvre Femme.  Heat half an ounce of butter in a 
dish on the hot stove, then break into it twelve fresh eggs, and sprinkle 
over two ounces of fresh bread-crumbs. Set the dish in the hot oven, 
and let bake for two minutes ; then pour over the ggs half a pint of 
well-reduced Espagnole sauce (No. 151), add three ounces of cooked, 
tender ham, or cooked kidneys cut up finely, and then send to the 
table. 

418. Eggs an Gratin.  Knead well together in a bowl, one table- 
spoonful of bread-crumbs two ounces of butter, three chopp'fed anchovies, 
a pinch of parsley, a pinch of chervil, one chopped shallot, three rav/ egg 
yolks, a good pinch of salt, half a pinch of white pepper, and a pinch of 
grated nutmeg. When ready, put these ingredients into a silver baking- 
dish (by preference) with one ounce of butter at the bottom. Place it on 
a slow fire for two minutes, then break over it six eggs, which will be 
plenty; cook for five minutes in the hot oven, remove, lay the dish on 
top of another, and serve immediately. 

419. Eggs & la Tripe.  Fry two medium-sized, sound, sliced onions in 
a frying-pan with two ounces of butter, but do not tirown them; mix in 
half a spoonful of flour, and a large cupful of sweet cream; season with a 
pinch of salt, half a pinch of white pepper, and the third of a pinch of 
grated nutmeg. Cook for eight minutes, stirring constantly with the 
spatula; then add twelve sliced, hard-boiled eggs, and heat together 



EGGS. 215 

thoroughly for two minutes without letting it boil again ; pour on a hot 
dish and serve. 

420. Eggs k la TanderbUt.  Place one ounce of good butter on a 
silver dish, set it on the hot stove, and break in twelve fresh eggs, being 
careful not to disturb the yolks; season with a light pinch of salt and the 
third of a pinch of pepper; then let cook slowly for four minutes. Pour 
over the eggs a pint of hot VaiJderbilt garnishing as for the omelet (No. 
471), and serve immediately. 

421. Eggs h la Yalencienne.  Put into a saucepan half a pint of hot, 
boiled rice, half a pint of hot tomato sauce (No. 205), two good-sized 
mushrooms, cut julienne-shaped, one truffle cut the same, and two table- 
spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese; season with half a pinch of salt, 
half a pinch of pepper, and the third of a pinch of grated nutmeg, and let 
cook on the hot stove for five minutes, stirring it lightly with the spat- 
ula. Leave the pan on the corner of the stove to keep warm) while put- 
ting half an ounce of good butter on a silver dish, and when placed on the 
hot stove, crack in twelve fresh eggs, being careful not to break the yolks; 
season with half a pinch of salt and the third of a pinch of pepper, then 
let cook for two minutes. Dress the prepared garnishing in four dome- 
shaped heaps  one at each end of the dish, and one at each side  and send 
to the table at once. 

422 Eggs h. la PrOTen^ale.  Pour twp tablespoonfuls of oil into a 
small frying-pan, and set it on the fire., When well heated, break one 
egg into a bowl, season with a pinch of salt and half a. pinch of pepper 
(divided up for the twelve eggs), then drop it into the oil; baste the egg 
with a spoon, turn it over, and when a good color on both sides, drain it 
on a wire sieve. Cook the twelve eggs separately (each one will take two 
minutes), then pare them nicely, and serve crown-shaped on a dish, put- 
ting a piece of fried bread between every other one. Pour over half a 
pint of reduced Espagnole (No. 151), to which has been added the zest of 
a lemon, and six sliced mushrooms, and serve very hot. 

428. Eggs en Filets.  Mix in a dish that can be put in the oven (a 
silver one by preference) twelve raw egg yolks, with a spoonful of 
brandy and a pinch of salt. Cook them for five minutes in a. hot oven, 
then let them cool; cut the preparation into twelve thin fillets or slices, 
and steep each one in alight pancake batter (No. 1186). Fry them in very 
hot fat for about two minutes, then lift up with a. skimmer, lay them on 
a napkin to drain, and serve on a folded napkin laid on a hot dish and 
garnished with fried parsley. 

424. Eggs h. la Finoise. Pour a pint of good tomato sauce (No. 205) 
into a saucepan on the hot stove, add two cut-up, peeled, sweet peppers, 
fry for two minutes in a tablespoonful of butter, a teaspoonful of chopped 
chives, and reduce it gradually to about half the quantity, which will 
take ten minutes. Poach six very fresh eggs, as for No. 404, pare their 
edges neatly. Place six freshly prepared hot toasts on a warm serving- 
dish, arrange the eggs carefully on top, and pour the afcove sauce over 
all, then send them to the table at once. 



2l6 THE TABLE. 



425. Eggs au Miroir. Lightly butter a silver dish large enough to 
hold twelve eggs, one beside another ; carefully break into it twelve 
eggs, taking care to keep the yolks intact. Evenly sprinkle over them 
half a pinch of salt. Cook for one minute on the hot stove ; then place 
them in the oven for one and a half minutes. Take out, and place the dish 
on another, and serve. 

426. Eggs with Fresh Mushrooms.  Peel, wash, and drain a quar- 
ter of a pound of fine, fresh mushrooms. Place them in a saucepan, with 
a tablespoonful of very good butter. Season with half a pinch of salt and 
a third of a pinch of white pepper, squeezing in first two drops of lemon 
juice. Cover the saucepan, and cook for ten minutes on a moderate fire. 
Add a quarter of a glassful of good Madeira wine ; reduce to one-half, which 
will take two minutes; add' now a gill of bechamel sauce (No. 154), and 
let come to a boil again. Prepare twelve fresh-poached eggs, as in No. 
404; pour the sauce on a hot serving-dish, keeping the mushrooms in the 
saucepan. Neatly lay the eggs over the sauce around the dish, and dress 
the mushrooms right in the centre, and serve very hot. 

427. Eggs with Celery.  Boil for fifteen minutes, in a quart of white 
broth (No. gg), two heads of well-washed and neatly pared, sound celery. 
Remove it from the broth; then cut it up in one-inch-length pieces, and 
return it to the pan with the broth in which it was first boiled, leaving it 
on the hot stove. Season with one pinch of salt and the third of a pinch 
of white pepper. Reduce to three-quarters (which will require ten min- 
utes). Add a gill of hot bfechamel sauce (No. 154), let come to a boil. 
Poach twelve fresh eggs exactly as in No. 404, neatly arrange them on a hot 
dish, crown-like. Pour the celery sauce right in the centre, and serve 
very hot. 

428. Eggs with Truffles.  Peel three medium-sized, sound truffles. 
Cut them into thin slices, place in a saucepan with a glassful of Madeira 
wine; reduce to one-half on a moderate fire. Season with one pinch of 
salt and the third of a pinch of white pepper; add one gill of bechamel 
sauce (No. 154); let come to a boil. Prepare twelve heart-shaped croft- 
tons (No. 133); dip the thin parts first into the sauce half an inch in 
depth, then into fresh, finely chopped-up parsley up to the same depth. 
Gently dress (arrange) them on the hot serving-dish in star-shape, so that 
the decorated ends of the crofttons will just reach up to the edge of the 
dish equally all around. Prepare twelve poached eggs exactly the same 
as in No. 404; dress an egg on each crouton. Gently pour the above pre- 
pared sauce right in the centre of the dish, being careful not to pour any 
over the eggs. Evenly slice one good-sized, sound truffle into twelve equal 
slices ; dip them in a little hot broth for two seconds ; lay one slice on 
top of each egg, and immediately send to the table. 

429. Eggs with Tarragon. ^Blanch for one minute in a sautoire a 
quarter of a bunch of tarragon-leaves, drain, and chop them up very fine. 
Break twelve eggs into a bowl, add the tarragon, season with a pinch of 
salt and half a pinch of pepper, and beat well for four minutes; mean- 
while adding half a cupful of sweet cream. Then make an omelet, as for 



EGGS. 1 1 7 

No. 450, and roll it on a hot serving dish. Prepare a little roux with 
flour and butter (No. 135), moisten with half a pint of strong broth and a. 
glassful of white wine; skim off any fat that may accumulate on top, and 
let it cook slowly for ten minutes. Strain through a fine sieve and pour 
it around the omelet; then serve. 

430. Eggs frith Livers.  Remove the gall carefully from about a 
pint of chicken livers, wash them well, drain, and slice them into small 
pieces. Place them in a sautoire with one ounce of butter, range the pan 
on the hot stove, then season with one pinch of salt and half a pinch of 
pepper ; toss the contents gently for two minutes ; then add a pinch of 
chopped parsley, one pinch of chervil, and three well-minced mushrooms, 
and moisten with half a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 185), and let cook for 
five minutes ; make an omelet of twelve eggs, as for No. 450, and when ready 
to finish, pour the livers in the centre, reserving two tablespoonfuls of it 
for further action; close the sides up carefully, cook two seconds longer, 
then gently turn it on a hot dish, and, with a spoon, pour all the sauce 
around the omelet. Dress the livers that were reserved, at both ends of 
the omelet, equally divided, and serve. 

431. Eggs an Parmesan.  Beat twelve eggs in a saucepan, with two 
tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, a pinch of pepper, but no salt; 
stir them well with a whip, and make of this six small omelets, as for No. 
450. As soon as they are sufficiently firm, lay them on a dish. Besprinkle 
the tops with a little grated Parmesan cheese, roll, and trim them nicely, 
sprinkle more cheese over the tops, wipe off the sides of the dish, and put them 
in a hot oven for five minutes. Remove from the oven, pour around the 
omelets one gill of hot Madeira sauce (No. 185); and serve very hot. 

432. Egg^ Si la Bonne Femme.  Slice two large, sound onions, and fry 
them in two ounces of butter, in a saucepan, stirring frequently, so that 
they do not burn; when done, dredge in a good pinch of flour, moistening 
with Ifelf a pint of cream or milk, and season with a pinch of salt, half a 
pinch of pepper, and a saltspoonful of nutmeg. Break six eggs, froth 
the whites, mix the yolks with the onions, and afterward the beaten 
whites, stirring well. Lay two pieces of white paper on the bottom of a 
baking-tin, butter them thoroughly, lay the eggs on top, and set it in the 
oven for about fifteen minutes. When done, turn them on to a hot dish, 
remove the papers, add two tablespoonfuls of Espagnole sauce (No. 151) 
to the eggs, and serve. 

433. Eggs ^ la Faysanne.  Put half a pint of cream into a dish, on 
the fire, and when it boils, break in twelve fresh eggs, season with a pinch 
of salt and twelve whole peppers; let cook for two minutes, and then set 
it in the oven for three minutes, so that the eggs get a good golden color, 
taking care that they do not harden. Remove from the oven, place the 
dish on another, and serve. 

434. Eggs k la E^gence.  Shred an ounce and a half of salt pork into 
fine pieces (ham will answer the same purpose), also one onion cut into 
small squares, and six medium-sized mushrooms, all of equal size; moisten 
with a spoonful of good gravy, and cook for five minutes. When done, 



2 1 8. TIfE TABLE. 



reduce with a tablespoonful of mushroom essence (liquor). Break twelve 
fresh eggs in a dish, with an ounce of melted butter on the bottom, and 
set it in a moderate oven for five minutes; pour the garnishing over, drip 
off the fat, wipe the sides of the dish, and add six drops of strong tarra- 
gon-vinegar. Remove from the oven, place the dish on another, and serve. 

435. Eggs Trith Melted Cheese.  Grate two ounces of Parmesan 
cheese on a dish; set it on a slow fire, adding half a glassful of white wine, 
a pinch of chopped parsley, a pinch of chopped chives, half a pinch of pep- 
per, and a saltspoonful of grated nutmejg, also two ounces of good butter. 
Stir thoroughly while cooking, and as the cheese melts, break in twelve 
eggs ; cook for five minutes longer, then surround the dish with heart- 
shaped croiitons (No. 133), set it on another dish, and serve very hot. 

436. Eggs en Panade.^Cut out twelve round pieces of bread-crumbs, 
each one measuring two inches in diameter, and place them in a pie-plate, 
spreading a little butter over each; brown them in the hot oven for one 
minute. Break twelve eggs in a bowl, add one pinch of chopped parsley, 
half a pinch of chives, two tablespoonfuls of thick, sweet cream, one ounce 
of butter, a pinch of salt, and a very little white pepper. Beat sharply all 
together for four minutes. Add the twelve pieces of browned bread to 
the beaten eggs, mix them well together. Place in a frying-pan on the 
hot range one ounce of clarified butter, heat thoroughly, then fry one 
egged bread at a time for one and a half minutes on each side. Dr^s, 
with the aid of a cake-turner on a hot dish with a folded napkin; keep in a 
warm place. Repeat the same process with the others, and serve. 

437. Eggs kla Meyerbeer.  Butter a silver dish and break into it twelve 
fresh eggs; or, if desired, use six small silver dishes, breaking two eggs 
into each one ; then cook them on the stove for two minutes. Cut six 
mutton kidneys in halves, broil or stew them according to taste, then add 
them to the eggs, and serve with half a pint of hot Pferigueux sauce (No. 
191) thrown over. 1 i 

438. Eggs k la Beine.  Prepare twelve eggs as for the above (No. 
437), cook them for two minutes. Make a garnishing of one ounce of 
cooked chicken-breast, one finely shred, medium-sized truffle, and six 
minced mushrooms. Moisten with half a pint of good Allemande sauce 
(No. 210), heat it up well, but do not let it boil; then pour over the eggs 
and serve immediately. 

439. Eggs k la Tnrqiie. Cook twelve eggs the same as for No. 
437, and pour over them six chicken livers, tossed gently but rapidly in 
a saucepan on a brisk fire with one ounce of butter for three minutes, 
and then with a spoon remove all the butter from the saucepan. Season 
with a pinch of salt, and half a pinch of white pepper, adding half a glass- 
ful of good Madeira wine. Reduce it to one half, then add one gill of hot 
Madeira sauce (No. 185), heat up a little, and then pour the sauce over 
the eggs and serve. 

440. Eggs & rimp^ratrlce.  Cook twelve eggs exactly as in No. 
437, arranging six small slices of p^tS-de-foie-gras, one on top of each' 
egg, and serving very hot. 



EGGS. 219 

441. Egg^g il la Suisse.  Fry twelve eggs as for No. 437; after cook- 
ing for two minutes, cover with half a pint of hot tomato sauce (No. 205), 
and add three cooked sausages, cut in two, also a little grated cheese, 
then send to the table. 

442. Eggs k la CMpolata.  Prepare twelve eggs as for No. 437, 
and cover them with a pint of hot Chipolata garnishing (No. 232), and 
serve very hot. 

443. Eggs 5i I'Alsacieime.  Fry twelve eggs as for No. 437, only 
putting them on a long dish. Add one chopped onion to four ounces 
of finely minced calf's liver, quickly toss them on a brisk iire for about 
eight minutes, then pour in about six to eight drops of vinegar, a. pinch 
of salt, and a little pftpper to season. Garnish both ends of the dish with 
this, then serve. 

444. Eggs h I'Aurore.  Boil twelve eggs until hard, then let them 
cool; shell them, and separate the yolks from the whites, putting the 
former into a mortar, adding one ounce of fresh butter, a pinch of salt, 
half a pinch of nutmeg, the same of ground spice, and 'three raw egg yolks; 
pound all well together. Mince the whites, and put them in a sautoire 
with a pint of well reduced b6chamel (No. 154), cook without boiling, 
although letting them attain a good consistency ; place them on the dish 
used for serving, lay the pounded yolks on top, and garnish with twelve 
square sippets of bread dipped in beaten egg, and put in the oven to brown 
for about four minutes ; then serve. 

445. Eggs k la Polonaise.  Cut twelve hard-boiled eggs in halves, 
separate the whites from the yolks, and pound the latter in a mortar, add- 
ing about one ounce of butter, a pinch of salt, half a pinch of ground spice, 
a saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, and five raw yolks; when well blended, 
without any lumps, strew half a tablespoonf ul of very finely chopped parsley 
over, and add the whites of the five eggs well beaten. Garnish the bottom 
of a baking-dish with this preparation, laying it in about a finger thick; 
also fill the whites with a part of it, making them have the appearance of 
whole eggs. Arrange them tastefully on top, and set the dish in the oven; 
brown slightly for about five minutes, remove it from the oven, lay the 
dish on top of another, wipe the sides carefully, and serve immediately. 

446. Eggs k la Sance Robert.  Peel two medium-sized onions, and 
remove the hearts, cut them in slices (the hearts), and put them with a 
tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan on a brisk fire, and brown them 
well. Moisten with a cupful of lean broth, season with a pinch of salt 
and half a pinch of pepper, cook, and let the sauce reduce for about ten 
minutes. When ready to serve, cut eight hard-boiled eggs into slices, 
mix them in the preparation, and let heat together without boiling for two 
minutes; finish with a teaspoonful of diluted mustard, and then serve. 

447. Eggs h la Bennett.  Cut twelve hard-boiled eggs lengthwise, 
remove the yolks, and place them in a bowl with two ounces of goo^ but- 
ter, a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, and a pinch of chopped chives. 
Beat well together, and fill the whites with it, besprinkle with bread- 
crumbs, and pour over a few drops of clarified butter; put them in the 



220 TITE TABLE. 



oven for three minutes on a buttered dish, and serve with half a pint of 
hot Madeira sauce (No. 185) thrown over. 

448. E^S k la Ujide.  Boil six fresh eggs for seven minutes, then 
lay them in cold water for five minutes to cool them off; shell them, and 
put them on a plate. Hash fine half a small canful of mushrooms with 
two tiranches of parsley and one medium-sized, sound shallot. Put in a 
saucepan on the hot stove one ounce of good butter, and when melted 
add the prepared mushrooms, and let cook rather slowly for fifteen min- 
utes, stirring it occasionally. Add half a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 185), 
season with a pinch of salt and a. light pinch of pepper, then cook again 
slowly for ten minutes. Strain the whole through a fine sieve into another 
saucepan, and set it aside to keep warm; cut the six hard-boiled eggs into 
halves, remove the entire yolks, and mash them thoroughly in a bowl, 
adding half an ounce of good, fresh butter and half a pint of sweet cream. 
Season with a light pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and half a tea- 
spoonful of grated nutmeg; mix well together, and with this fill the twelve 

 pieces of egg-white. Lay them on a lightly buttered dish, pour the sauce 
over, and put them in the oven for eight minutes before sending to the 
table. 

449. !pggS k la Dncheese.  Place a quarter of a pound of powdered 
sugar in a saucepan, adding half a pint of water, a small piece of lemon 
peel, and a short stick of cinnamon. Boil until the sugar is reduced to a 
syrup, then remove the lemon peel and cinnamon, and add half a teaspoon- . 
ful of orange-flower water. Beat together, then strain twelve egg yolks 
with a pint of milk or cream, add this to the syrup with a very little salt, 
then transfer the whole to a silver baking-dish, place it on the hot stove, 
and let cook for ten minutes, stirring briskly, and when it forms a cream, 
squeeze in the juice of a fine, sound lemon; remove from the fire, lay the 
dish on another, and send to the table. 

450. Plain Omelet.  Crack into a bowl twelve fresh eggs, season them 
with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of white pepper, beat them well until 
the whites and yolks are thoroughly mixed, or for fully four minutes. 
Place in a No. 8 frying-pan two tablespoonfuls of clarified hutter; 
heat it well on the hot range, and when it crackles pour in the eggs, and 
with a fork stir all well for two minutes, then let rest for half a minute. 
Fold up with the fork  the side nearest the handle first  to the centre 
of the omelet, then the opposite side, so that both sides will meet right 
in the centre; let rest for half a minute longer; have a hot dish in the left 
hand, take hold of the handle of the pan with the right, bring both dish 
and pan to a triangular shape, and with a rapid movement turn the pan 
right over the centre of the dish, and send to the table. (The omelet 
should be made on a very brisk range , without taking the lid off the stove. ) 

Should the pan be smaller than the above-mentioned No. 8 it will 
require three minutes' stirring, one minute to rest, and half a minute to 
rest after having been folded. 

When making an omelet for one person, for instance, use three fresh 
eggs, seasoned with half a teaspoonful of salt, and half a saltspoonful of 



JSGGS. 2 2 I 

white pepper. Thoroughly heat in a small frying-pan half a tei-spoonful 
of clarified butter; after sharply beating the eggs in the bowl, pour into 
the pan, and gently mix for one minute on a very brisk range, let rest for 
a quarter of a minute, fold one side up, rest a quarter of a minute more, 
then turn on a small hot dish, and serve. 

461. Omelet with Fine Herbs.  Break twelve fresh eggs into a bowl, 
add a pinch of finely chopped parsley, half a pinch of chopped tarragon, 
and half a pinch of chives; also, if desired, half a cupful of sweet cream. 
Beat the whole thoroughly without stopping for four minutes; melt one 
ounce of good butter in a frying-pan on the hot stove; when it is melted, 
and begins to crackle, pour in the eggs, and mix them gently with a fork, 
while they cook for three minutes; let them rest for one minute, then 
bring the sides towards the centre, turn it on a hot dish, and serve. 

452. Oyster Omelet.  Blanch eighteen oysters to boiling-point in their 
own water; drain, and return them to the saucepan, moistening with half 
a pint of good Allemande (No. 2lo); season with half a pinch of salt. 
Make a plain omelet with twelve eggs as for No. 450, bring the sides 
toward the centre, and fill it with the oyster preparation. Turn it on a 
hot dish, pour the rest of the sauce around, and serve very hot. 

453. Crawflsh Omelet.  Stew twelve crawfish tails in a sautoire on the 
hot stove with half an ounce of butter, letting them cook for five minutes. 
Break twelve eggs into a bowl, add half a cupful of sweet cream, and a 
pinch of finely chopped parsley ; season with a pinch of salt and half a 
pinch of pepper, then sharply beat for four minutes. Make an omelet 
as in No. 450, fold up the side opposite the handle of the pan, place the 
crawfish right in the centre, fold up the other side, turn it on a hot dish, 
and serve. 

454. Lobster Omelet.  Take six ounces of boiled lobster meat, and 
cut it into small pieces ; put them into a sautoire with half a glassful of 
white wine and a quarter of an ounce of butter. Moisten with a quarter 
of a pint of strong, hot bfechamel (No. 154), and let cook for five minutes. 
Make an omelet with twelve eggs as for No. 450, and with a skimmer 
place the stewed lobster in the middle, fold the opposite side, pour in the 
garnishing, fold the other side up, turn it on a hot dish, pour the sauce 
around it, and serve. 

455. Crab Omelet.  Proceed exactly the same as for the above (No. 
454), substituting six ounces of crab meat cut into small pieces for the 
lobster. 

456. Tomato Omelet.  Break twelve fresh eggs in a bowl, season 
them with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, and beat thoroughly 
for four minutes. Place two ounces of butter in a fryinjg-pan on the hot 
stove, let it heat well without browning, then pour into it half a pint of 
freshly cooked stewed tomatoes, suppressing all the liquid. Cook for two 
minutes, then throw the beaten eggs over, and with a fork mix the whole 
gently for three minutes ; let rest for one minute longer. Bring up the 
two opposite sides, turn it carefully on a hot dish, and serve. 

457. Tomato Omelet i^ la Proven9ale.  Peel a medium-sized, sound 



222 THE TABLE. 



onion, then chop it fine ; place it in a. sautoir? on the hot stove with 
one ounce of butter, and let get a good golden color, adding half a pint 
of stewed tomatoes (No. 1027), or two good-sized, peeled, raw toma- 
toes cut into small slices, a crushed clove of garlic, and season (should 
the tomatoes be fresh) with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, 
adding a teaspoonful of chopped parsley; let the whole cook together for 
ten minutes; then proceed as for the tomato omelet (No. 456). 

4-58. AsparagnS-top Omelet.  Put a quarter of a bunch of boiled 
asparagus-tops into a bowl, pour twelve beaten eggs over, season with a 
pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, mix lightly again, and make an 
omelet exactly as for No. 450. 

459. Omelet, with Green Peas.  Break twelve eggs into a bowl, add- 
ing half a pint of boiled green peas , a pinch each of salt and pepper, beat 
well for four minutes, and make into an omelet as for No. 450. 

460. Omelet au Cepes.  Fry six cfepes, cut into small pieces, in half 
an ounce of butter for two minutes. Beat twelve eggs in a bowl, season 
with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, pour them over the cfepes, 
and make an omelet as for No. 450. 

461. Smoked Beef Omelet.  Fry two ounces of finely mixed, smoked 
beef in a frying-pan, with half an ounce of butter, add twelve well-beaten 
eggs, and make an omelet as for No. 450. 

462. Ham Omelet.  Cut about two ounces of lean ham into small, 
square pieces, fry them for two minutes with an ounce of butter in a fry- 
ing-pan, and throw over twelve well beaten eggs ; with this make an ome- 
let as for No. 450. 

463. Kidney Omelet.  Stew on the hot stove three minced kidneys, 
with a quarter of a pint of Madeira wine sauce (No. 185), let cook for 
three minutes. Make a plain omelet with twelve eggs as for No. 450, 
fold the opposite side up, put the kidneys in the centre, fold the other 
side up, and turn on a dish, and pour the sauce around ; then serve. 

464. Cliicken Liver Omelet.  The same as for the ab,ove (No. 463), 
substituting six minced chicken livers for the kidneys. 

465. Sausage Omelet.  Skin three raw sausages, then put them in a 
saucepan with a quarter of an ounce of butter ; set it on the hot fire for 
five minutes, and stir well until they cook. Make a plain omelet with 
twelve eggs, as for No. 450, fold the opposite side, lay the sausages in 
the centre, fold the other side up, and serve with a quarter of a pint of 
hot Madeira sauce (No. 185), poured around the omelet. 

466. Omelet Bonne Femme.  Cut one ounce of salt pork into small 
square pieces, also two tablespoonfuls of crust from off a fresh loaf of 
bread cut the same way ; fry them together in a frying-pan with an ounce 
of butter for about two minutes, adding a boiled potato cut into small 
squares, a pinch of chopped parsley, half a pinth of chopped chives, half 
a pinch of salt, and the same quantity of pepper. Beat twelve eggs for 
four minutes in a bowl, pour them into the pan, and make an omelet as 
for No. 450 ; turn on a hot dish, and serve. 

467. Omelet Raspail.  Chop one raw onion very fine, and put it in 



EGGS, 223 

a saucepan with an ounce of butter. Take one ounce of small squares of 
salt pork, cook them slightly, adding an ounce of scraps of very finely 
minced, cooked roast beef, the same of ham, two finely chopped mush- 
rooms, and a pinch of chopped parsley. Stir in well a tablespoonful of 
tomato sauce (No. 205) and a tablespoonful of grated bread-crumbs ; season 
with a pinch of pepper and the third of a pinch of salt. Make a plain 
omelet with twelve eggs as for No. 450, fold up the opposite side, fill it 
with the preparation, fold the other side up, turn it on a hot dish, and 
serve. 

468. Sardine Omelet.  Thoroughly skin eight fine sardines, place six 
of them in a frying-pan with an ounce of butter, cook for two minutes. 
Beat well twelve eggs in a bowl. Season with one pinch of salt and 
half a pinch of pepper, add them to the sardines in the pan; make an ome- 
let as in No. 450, fold the opposite end up, place the two remaining sar- 
dines right in the centre, fold the other end up, turn it on a hot dish, and 
send to the table. 

469. Cheese Omelet.  Put one ounce of butter in a frying-pan, heat 
it on the hot stove. Break twelve eggs into a bowl, beat them thoroughly 
for four minutes, adding two tablespoonfuls of grated Swiss cheese, half a 
pinch of salt, and half a pinch of pepper. Pour the whole into the frying- 
pan, and make an omelet as for No. 450; turn it on a hot dish, and 
besprinkle the top lightly with a very little Parmesan cheese; place in the 
oven for two seconds, then serve. 

470. Omelet R^gence.  Make an omelet with twelve eggs as for 
No. 450, and when nearly cooked, fold up the opposite side, then fill the 
centre with a quarter of a pint of hot Rfigence garnishing (No. 434), fold 
the other side up; turn on a hot dish, pour the sauce around, and 
serve hot. 

471. Omelet ^ la Tanderbilt.  Take two fine, sound, green peppers, 
plunge them into hot fat for half a minute, then take them up and lay 
them on a dry cloth; skin them neatly, remove all the seeds from the 
insides, and when emptied cut them into small slices. Put these into a 
saucepan on the hot stove with two medium-sized fresh, sound, sliced 
tomatoes, twelve nicely shelled shrimps, and three tablespoonfuls of 
Madeira wine sauce (No. 185), then season with half a pinch of salt and a. 
third of a pinch of pepper; cook slowly for fifteen minutes. Brfeak twelve 
fresh eggs into a bowl, season them with half a pinch of salt and a third 
of a pinch of pepper, and beat well for five minutes. Put two ounces of 
good butter in a frying-pan, place it on the hot stove, and when the butter 
is melted drop in the eggs, and with a^epoon or fork mix briskly for 
two minutes. Fold the opposite side up with a skimmer, lift up the thick 
part of the prepared sauce,, and place it in the centre of the omelet, 
fold the other side either with a knife or fork, and let it cook for two 
minutes longer, then turn on a hot dish; pour the rest of the sauce in 
the saucepan around the omelet, and send to the table very hot. 

472. Omelet h, I'Espagnole. Put in a stewpan on the stove one 
finely shred onion, one ounce of butter, a chopped green pepper, six 



2 24 ^-^-^ TABLE. 



minced mushrooms, and one' large, finely cut-up tomato; season with 
half a pinch of pepper and one pinch of salt, adding a spoonful of tomato 
sauce (No. 205); let cook for fifteen minutes. Make a plain omelet with 
twelve eggs, as for No. 450, fold the opposite side, and put more than half 
of the stew inside of it, say three-quarters; fold the other side up, and 
turn it on a long dish, then pour the rest of the sauce around, and serve. 

473. Omelet Mexicaine.  Have a pint of veloutfe sauce (No. 152) in a 
saucepan, place it on a moderate fire, add a piece of lobster butter (No. 
145) about the size of an egg, twenty-four shelled and cooked shrimps, 
and season with half a pinch of salt and a very little pepper. Let cook 
for three minutes, stirring it lightly, then add half of a good-sized, empty 
and peeled green pepper, finely hashed; cook for two minutes longer, then 
let rest on the corner of the stove. Make an omelet with twelve eggs, as 
for No. 450, fold up the opposite side, pour half of the preparation in the 
centre, fold the other end up, turn the omelet on a hot dish, and garnish 
both sides with the rest of the shrimps, pouring the balance around the 
dish; then send to the table. 

474. Omelet Souffl^e, for Six Persons. Have a deep, cold, silver 
dish ready, fifteen inches long by eleven wide. Put into a vessel four 
ounces of powdered sugar. Break twelve fresh eggs, drop the whites 
into a copper basin, and the yolks of five into the vessel containing the 
sugar, reserving the other seven yolks for other purposes. Add to the 
vessel containing the sugar and yolks a light teaspoonful of vanilla 
essence: now with the wooden spatula, begin to beat the yolks with the 
sugar as briskly as you possibly can for fifteen minutes. Lay it aside. 
Then with the aid of a pastry wire-whip, beat up to a very stiff froth the 
twelve egg whites in the copper basin, which will take from twelve to 
fifteen minutes. Remove the pastry wire- whip; take a skimmer in the 
right hand, and with the left take hold of the vessel containing the 
preparation of the yolks and sugar. Gradually pour it over the 
whites, and with the skimmer gently mix the whole together for two 
minutes. The preparation will now be of a light, firm consistency. Now, 
with the aid again of the skimmer, take up the preparation and drop it 
down in the centre of the cold dish, ready as above mentioned, taking 
special care to pile it as high as possible, so as to have it of a perfect 
dome-shape; a few incisions. can be made all around, according to taste; 
immediately place it in a moderate oven to bake for fifteen minutes. 
Take it out of the oven, and, in order to avoid burning or soiling 
the table-cloth, lay the dish containing the omelet on another cold one, 
liberally sprinkle powdered sugar over it, and immediately send to the 
table. 

N. B.  Special care should be taken when piling the preparation into 
the cold, silver dish; and the making of the incisions should be done as 
rapidly as possible, so that success will be certain. When desired, the 
vanilla essence can be substituted with the same quantity of orange- 
flower water. 

475. Sweet Omelet.  Beat and sweeten with one ounce of sugar 



BEEF. 



225 



twelve eggs; make an omelet as for No. 450, using one ounce of fresh 
butter; turn it on a dish, and dredge another ounce of sugar over, then 
glaze it with a hot shovel or salamander, and serve very warm. 

476. Omelet an Klrsch, or Rum.  Make a sweet omelet with twelve 
eggs as for the above (No. 475); when completed and glazed, throw around 
it a glassful of kirsch, and set the omelet on fire; serve it while burning. 
Rum omelet is prepared exactly the same way, substituting rum for 
kirsch. 

477. Omelet C^lestine.  Pulverize six macaroons, put them in a 
bowl, adding three tablespoonfuls of apple jelly (No. 1327) and one spoon- 
ful of whipped cream (No. 1254); mix well with the spatula. Make a 
sweet omelet as for No. 475, with twelve eggs; fold the opposite side up, 
pour the mixture into the centre, fold the other end up, turn it on a hot 
dish, and sprinkle the top with three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar; 
glaze the omelet with a hot shovel or salamander, and decorate it with 
three lady-fingers (No. 1231) cut in two, also a cupful of whipped cream 
(No. 1254), the latter poured into a paper-funnel, and piped over in any 
design the fancy may dictate. 

A pinch of salt represents 205 grains , or a tablespoonf ul. 

Half a pinch of pepper represents 38 grains, or a teaspoonful. 

A third of a pinch of nutmeg represents 13 grains, or half a teaspoonful. 



BKKF. 



478. Braised Beef ^ la Morlaisieime.  Procure a rump-piece of beef 
weighing three pounds, lard it with four large pieces of salt pork, season- 
ed with a pinch of chopped parsley and a crushed garlic. Lay the beef 
in a saucepan, with pieces of salt pork or fat at the bottom, add one sliced 
onion, the round slices of one carrot, one sprig of thyme, and a bay-leaf ; 
season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, then cover, and 
brown it well on both sides for ten minutes. Moisten with half a pint of 
white broth (No. 99) and half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), theii 
cook for one hour. When finished, lay it on a dish, garnishing with six 
stuffed cabbages (No. 919). Skim off the fat, strain the gravy, and pour 
the sauce over, or else serve it in a separate sauce-bowl. 

479. Braised Beef il la Mode.  Lard and prepare a piece of beef 
weighing three pounds as for the above (No. 478). L.et it marinate for 
twelve hours in the juice of half a lemon, with one good pinch of salt, the 
same quantity of pepper, one- sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, and half a 
bunch of parsley-roots. Put the meat in a saucepan with half an ounce 
of butter, and let both sides brown well for ten minutes; take it out and 
lay it on a dish, then add to the gravy about two tablespoonfuls of flour, 
stirring it jvell, and moisten with one quart of broth (No. 99), mingling 

15 



226 THE TABLE. 



it carefully while the sauce is boiling. Replace the beef in the sauce- 
pan with two sliced carrots and twelve small glazed onions (No. 972), 
and cook for one hour, adding a strong bouquet (No. 254), a glassful of 
claret wine, if desired, and a little crushed garlic, also half a pinch of 
salt, and the third of a pinch of pepper. Serve on a hot dish, skim the 
fat off the gravy, straining it over. Arrange the carrots and onions 
in clusters around the dish, and serve. 

AH braised beef to be prepared exactly the same, only adding different 
gamishings. 

480. Braised Beef ^ la PrOTidence.  Braise a piece of beef of three 
pounds, as for No. 479, adding a quarter of a cooked cauliflower, half a 
cupful of flageolet-beans, and a cupful of cooked carrots cut with a 
vegetable-scoop five minutes before serving. Place the vegetables with 
the skimmed gravy in a pan, reduce for five minutes. Dress the beef on a 
hot dish, arrange the vegetables in four heaps, one at each end of the dish 
and one on each side of it. Pour the gravy over the beef, and serve. 

481. Braised Beef k I'Orsini.  Braise a piece of beef as for No. 479, 
serve it on a dish garnished with rice, prepared as follows : with some 
cold risotto (No. 1017) form six balls the size of an egg; roll them in 
bread crumbs, then dip them in beaten eggs, lard them with half-inch 
slices of cooked, smoked tongue, and fry in hot fat for three minutes. 
Serve these round the beef, with its own gravy well skimmed and strained 
over. 

482. Braised Beef h, la Flamande.  Prepare the beef as for No. 479, 
and serve it decorated with clusters of a quarter of a cooked, red cabbage, 
two cooked carrots, and two turnips, all sliced. (Red cabbage, carrots, 
and turnips should always be cooked separately). 

483. Braised Beef en Danbe.  Add to a piece of braised beef, as for 
No. 479, one ounce of salt pork cut into small square pieces, the round 
slices of two carrots, and twelve glazed onions (No. 972), alsp one cut-up 
turnip. Put all these ingredients in the saucepan with the beef, three- 
quarters of an hour before serving. 

484. Braised Beef alaBlgUOn.  ^Braise a piece of beef as for No. 
479. Take six large potatoes and pare them as round as possible, scoop 
out the insides with a Parisian potato-spoon, being careful not to break 
them, parboil them slightly for three minutes on a quick fire, and then 
fill them with any kind of forcemeat handy ; place them in the oven with 
two tablespoonfuls of clarified butter, and bake well for twenty minutes. 
Serve them around the beef, three on each side of the dish. 

485. Braised Beef, Bnsslan Sance.  Cook a piece of braised beef as 
for No. 479, and serve it with a little oithe gravy on the dish, and half a 
pint of Russian sauce (No. 211) separate. 

486. Smoked Beef k la CrSme.  Take one pound of very finely minced 
smoked beef, put it in a stewpan with half an ounce of butter, cook for 
two minutes, and moisten slightly with half a cupful of cream, adding two 
tablespoonfuls of bfechamel (No. 154), and serve as soon as it boils. (Do 
not salt it). 



BEEF. 



227 



487. BeeMeak Pie il I'AngloiSO.  Slice two pounds of lean beef in half- 
inch-square slices, add two sliced onions, and stew together in a sauce- 
pan with one ounce of butter for ten minutes, stir in two tablespoonfuls 
of Sour, and mix well; moisten with one quart of water or white broth (No. 
99), still stirring. Season with a pinch each of salt and pepper, and add a 
bouquet (No. 254) ; let cook for twenty minutes, take out the bouquet, 
and fill a deep dish with the above preparation. Cut two hard-boiled eggs 
in slices, and lay them on top, cover with pie-crust (No. 1077), glaze the 
surface with egg yolk, and bake a light brown color for about eight min- 
utes in the oven ; then serve. 

488. Beefsteak Ke k I'Am^ricaine.  Proceed the same as for No. 
487, but using in place of the eggs one pint of potatoes cut with a vege- 
table-scoop, also one ounce of lard, cut in small pieces, and cooking them 
with the beef the same length of time. 

489. Corned Beef with Spinach.  Take three pounds of rump or 

brisket of corned beef, and put it into a saucepan, covering it with fresh 
water; boil briskly for an hour and a half, and serve w'th boiled spinach 
k I'Anglaise (No. 940). 

490. Corned Beef with Eale-spronts.  The same as for the above, 
only adding two quarts of kale-sprouts, half an hour before the beef is 
cooked, then arrange the cooked kale-sprouts on a dish, and put the 
corned beef over, and serve. 

491. Sirloin Steak, or Entrecote si la Bordelaise.  Procure two sirloin 

steaks of one pound each ; season them with one pinch of salt and half a 
pinch of pepper. Baste dn both sides with half a tablespoonful of oil, and 
put them on a broiler over a bright charcoal fire ; broil them for six min- 
utes on each side, and then place them on a hot serving-dish. Pour a 
pint of Bordelaise sauce (No. 186) over the steaks, being careful to have 
the rounds of marrow on top of the steaks unbroken, and serve very hot. 
(Broiled sirloin steaks are all to be prepared as above, only adding dif- 
ferent sauces or garnishings). 

492. Sirloin Steak k la B^arnaise.  Prepare and broil two sirloin 
steaks as for No. 491, and when cooked, pour over half a pint of Bfearnaise 
sauce (No. 166), and serve. 

493. Sirloin Steak Si la Moelle.  Broil two sirloin steaks as for No. 
491, take half a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 185), and to it add six drops 
of tarragon-vinegar, also the marrow of one marrow-bone cut in round 
slices. Boil once only, then pour the sauce over the steaks, and serve 
very hot. 

494. Sirloin Steak Larded k la Dnchesse. Procure a piece of four 
pounds of tender sirloin, pare and trim it nicely, taking out the bones; 
lard it over the top with a small larding-needle, and season with half a 
pinch of salt and a third of a pinch of pepper. Line a. baking-dish with 
some pork-skin, one medium-sized, sliced carrot, half a bunch of well- 
cleaned and pared parsley-roots, one peeled, sound, sliced onion, one sprig 
of thyme, and a bay-leaf. Place the sirloin on top, and put it in the oven 
to roast for thirty minutes. Take from out the oven, dress on a hot dish, 



228 THE TABLE. 



leave it at the oven door ; add half a pint of white broth (No. gg) or con- 
somm6 (No. lOo) to the gravy, boil it for two minutes, skim the fat off, 
strain the gravy into a sauce-bowl, and serve separate. 

495. Sirloin Steaks it la Parisienne.  Broil two sirloin steaks as for 

No. 4gi , and serve surrounded with one pint of cooked Parisian potatoes 
(No. g85), and half a gill of maltre d'hotel butter (No. 145). 

496. Sirloin Steaks anx Cepes. Lay two broiled sirloin steaks, as 
for No. 4gi, on a hot dish ; cut six medium-sized cSpes into quarter 
pieces, put them in a frying-pan with one tablespoonful of oil, and fry for 
two minutes with one finely chopped shallot and a quarter of a clove of 
crushed garlic. Add these ingredients to half a pint of Madeira sauce 
(No. 185), and boil for two minutes longer, then pour over the steaks, 
besprinkle with a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and serve. 

497. Sirloin Steak, with Green Peppers,  Dish two broiled sirloin 
steaks (No. 4gi), and pour over them a sauce made as follows : empty 
three green peppers, mince them very fine, suppressing the seeds, and' 
put them in a stewpan with a tablespoonful of oil. Cook for about three 
minutes, moistening with half a pint of, Madeira sauce (No. 185) ; cook 
for five minutes longer, then pour the sauce over the steaks, and serve. 

498. Sirloin Fi(](ii^ ilia Bordelaise.  Proceed the same as for No. 4gi, 
adding a pint of Bordelaise sauce (No. 186) separately. 

499. Sirloin Fiqi]6) Marrow sauce.  The same as for No. 491, only 

serving with a pint of hot marrow garnishing (No. 244) separately. 

500. Minced Beef k la Froren^ale.  Cut into small slices a piece of 

beef weighing one pound and a half, put them in a saucepan with two 
tablespoonfuls of oil and two medium-sized, chopped onions; brown them 
together for five minutes, then add two tablespoonfuls of flour, and cover 
with a pint and a half of white broth (No. gg). Stir well and put in two 
cut-up tomatoes, two crushed cloves of garlic, and six finely shred mush- 
rooms ; season with a good pinch of salt and a pinch of pepper; place the 
lid on the pan. Let cook for twenty minutes, then dress on a hot dish. 
Arrange six heart-shaped croutons (No. 133) around the dish, and serve. 

501. Minced Beef hia Portngaise.  The same as for the above, only 
leaving out the mushrooms, and garnishing with six timbales prepared as 
follows : thoroughly clean the interiors of six small timbale-molds, then 
butter them, well inside. Fill them up half their height with hot, boiled 
rice, well pressed down, so that when unmolding they will hold perfectly 
firm. Place them in the hot oven for two minutes. Unmold and arrange 
them around the dish at equal distances ; dress six small, hot, roasted 
tomatoes (No. 1028), one on top of each column of rice, and then serve. 

502. Minced Beef k la Catalan.  Proceed as for No. 500, browning the 
meat in oil, and adding two very finely chopped shallots, one onion, and 
a green pepper cut into pieces. When well browned, after five minutes, 
put in a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), half a pinch of salt, and the 
same of pepper. Cook again for fifteen minutes and serve, with a tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley strewn over. 

503. Broiled Tenderloin of Beef.  Procure two and a half pounds of 



BEEF. 229 

tenderloin of beef; pare, cut it into three equal parts, flatten a little, then 
place them on a dish, and besprinkle with a pinch of salt, and the same of 
pepper. Baste them with one teaspoonful of sweet oil; roll them well, 
and put them on the broiler on a moderate fire; let cook for five minutes 
on each side; then place them on a hot dish, and use any kind of sauce or 
garnishing desired. 

All broiled tenderloins are prepared the same way. 

504. Broiled Tenderloin Jl la Charon.  Broil three tenderloin steaks, 
as for No. 503 ; lay them on a dish on the top of a gill of hot Bfeamaise 
sauce (No. l66), place on each steak one hot artichoke-bottom filled with 
hot Mac6doine (No. 1032), pour just a little meat-glaze (No. 141) over, and 
serve. 

505. Tenderloin k la NlTernaise.  Broil three tenderloin steaks, as 
for No. 503; put them on a hot dish, with half a pint 6i garnishing of 
mushroom sauce (No. 230); lay six poached eggs (No. 404) on top, and 
serve. 

506. Tenderloin h, la Florentin.  Prepare three fillets the same as 
for No. 503; pour a gill of hot Madeira sauce (No. 185) over the steaks, 
and garnish with three hot artichokes % la Florentin (No. 903), and 
serve. 

507. Tenderloin k la Trianon.  Broil three fillets, as for No. 503; pour 
half a pint of Bfearnaise sauce (No. 166) over, and garnish with four slices 
of truffles on each; also a little meat-glaze (No. 141), and serve. 

508. Broiled Tenderloin aax Oourmets.  Have three tenderloin 
steaks prepared as for No. 503; when taken from the broiler, place them 
on a warm dish, and have already prepared the following garnishing: put 
in a saucepan one pint of Madeira sauce (No. 185); add to it two truffles 
cut into square pieces, four mushrooms, an artichoke-bottom, and a 
small blanched sweetbread, either from the throat or heart, all well minced 
together. Cook for ten minutes; then pour this over the hot serving- 
dish. Dress the fillets over, and serve. 

509. Mi^ons Filets & la Pompadonr.  After procuring two and a 

half pounds of fine, tender iillet of beef, pare it nicely all around; then 
cut it into six equal, small fillets. Flatten them slightly and equally. Place 
on a dish, season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, evenly 
divided. Place them in a pan on the hot range, with half a gill of clarified 
butter, and cook them for four minutes on each side. Prepare a pint of 
B6arnaise sauce, as in No. 166. Dress three-quarters of it on a hot 
dish (reserving the other quarter for further action). Lay six round-, 
shaped pieces of bread-crofitons, lightly fried in butter, over the B6ar- 
naise sauce; dress the six fillets, one on top of each crouton; arrange then 
six warm artichoke-bottoms right in the centre of the fillets. Fill up the 
artichokes with a tablespoonful of hot Jardiniere (No. 1033). Evenly divide 
the remaining quarter of a pint of hot Bfearnaise sauce over the Jardiniere. 
Cut into six even slices one good-sized, sound truffle; place one slice on 
the top of each, right in the centre of the Bfearnaise sauce, and send to the 
table as hot as possible. 



230 THE TABLE. 



510. Mignons Filets h. la Moelle.  Prepare and fry six small fillets as 
lor the above (No. 509) for three minutes on both sides; lay them on a 
dish, adding one pint of hot Madeira sauce (No. 185) with six drops of 
tarragon- vinegar and eighteen round slices of marrow. Let boil once only; 
then pour the sauce around the dish, dressing the marrow on top of 
the fillet, and serve. 

611. Mignous Filets, Marinated, Bnssian Kance.  Trim nicely and 
lard six fillets of beef  tail ends weighing each a quarter of a pound  
steep them in a cooked marinade (No. 139) for twelve hours; then drain, 
and cook them in a sautoire, with one ounce of clarified butter, for three 
miftutes on each side, and serve with one pint of Russian sauce (No. 211) 
on the dish, and the fillets on top. 

512. Mignons Filets k la Bernardi. Prepare six small fillets, as 
slirected for No. 509; cook them for three minutes on each side; then lay 
them on a dish and pour over half a pint of hot Madeira sauce (No. 185). 
Serve with six small croustades (No. 264), garnished with Macfidoine (No. 
1032), and six large ^ame quenelles (No. 228). 

513. Mignons Filets h. la Boh^mienne.  Lay on a dish six small fillets 
prepared the same as for No. ,509. Pour over them half a pint of hot 
Madeira sauce (No. 185). Make six small croustades (No. 264), fill them 
wiLh a cooked macaroni h. la crSme|(No. 954) cut into small pieces; also 
two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. Cover them with a round slice of 
cooked smoked tongue, and garnish the steaks with these. 

514. Mignons Filets k la Farisienne.  Pare nicely six small fillets; 

. cook three minutes, as directed in No. 509; put half a pint of Madeira 
sauce (No. 185) in a saucepan, with two truffles and six mushrooms, all 
cut in slices. Let cook for ten minutes. Nicely arrange six small, round 
croutons on the hot dish; dress the fillets over them, and pour the sauce 
around, but not over them; then serve. 

515. Mignons Filets aux Fommes-de-terre Farisiennes.  When 

cooked the same as the above, for three minutes, pour over the fillets 
placed on a dish half a gill of good maitre d'hdtel butter (No. 145) 
thickened with some meat-glaze (No. 141), and garnish with half a pint of 
Parisian potatoes (No. 986.) ' 

516. Tenderloin Piqn6 & la DucIieSSe.  Procure four pounds of ten- 
derloin; pare it well, and lard it, using a fine needle. Line the bottom of 
a roasting-pan with son^ pork-skin, one sliced onion, one sliced carrot, 
and half a bunch of well-washed parsley-roots. Place the tenderloin on 
top; add a pinch of salt, and roast it in -a brisk oven for thirty-five miii- 
uteS, basting it occasionally with its own juice. Dish it up, skim the fat 
off the gravy, then strain it over the fillet, and pour half a pint of good 
Madeira sauce (No. 185) over, and garnish with six potatoes Duchesse 
(No. 1006). 

517. Tenderloin Fiqii^ k la Portugaise.  Roast four pounds of 

tenderloin as in No. 516,* lay it on a hot dish, arrange six stuffed tomatoes 
.(No. 1023) around the tenderloin at equal distances. Put in a saucepan 
half a pint of tomato sauce (No. 205), and one gill of demi-glace (No. 



BEEF. 231 

185). Let boil for one minute, then pour it into a sauce-bowl and serve 
separate. 

618. Roast four pounds oX tenderloin as for No. 516, slice half a pint 
of cSpes, and add them to half a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 185) with one 
crushed clove of garlic. Pour the sauce onto a dish, lay the tenderloin 
on top, and decorate with some twisted anchovies, and twelve stoned 
olives laid on each one; then serve. 

519. Roast Tenderloin & la Hussard.  Procure four pounds of fillet 
of beef, pare it nicely, and season with one pinch each of salt and pepper; 
butter the surface lightly, and lay it in a roasting-pan, and put it to cook 
for ten minutes in a brisk oven, then set it aside to cool, and afterwards 
lay on it some very fine chicken forcemeat (No. 226), besprinkle with fresh 
bread-crumbs, and baste with three tablespoonfuls of clarified butter. 
Roast it again for thirty-five minutes, and serve with thr^e-quarters of a 
pint of the following Hussard garnishing on the dish. 

Put in a saucepan on the hot stove half a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 
185), a gill of tomato sauce (No. 205), six good-sized, sound mushrooms, 
cut into small pieces, twelve godiveau quenelles (No. 221), and three 
ounces of cooked, smoked beef-tongue, cut in round pieces. Let all cook 
together for five minutes, and use when required. 

520. Tenderloin Piqu6 il la Serigne.  Roast a piece of tenderloin as 
for No. 519; when done and laid on a dish, pour over it half a pint of 
good Madeira sauce (No. 185), and decorate with six small bouch6es filled 
with spinach (No. 588). 

521. Tenderloin Plqn6 \l I'Egyptienne.  Roast a piece of tender- 
loin as for No. 519, lay it on a dish, pouring over it half a pint of good 
Madeira sauce (No. 185). Garnish one side of the dish with three roots 
of boiled celery  the white part only  and the other side with eighteen 
coqked gumbos (No. 1030), then serve. 

522. Tenderloin Piqn^ k la Biehelien.  Exactly the same as for No. 
519, only adding one pint of hot Richelieu sauce under the fillet (No. 
539), and serve. 

523. Tenderloin Piqn^ It la Bernardi.  Take a four-pound piece of 
tenderloin, lard it  using a small larding needle  with very thin pieces of 
fresh ham and truffles, all cut the same size; put it into the oven to 
roast for thirty-five minutes, and then lay it on a dish, trimming the fillets 
carefully, the larded part being on the top. Pour over half a pint of good, 
hot Madeira sauce (No. 185), and garnish with three artichoke-bottoms, 
filled with hot Mac6doine (No. 1032), three bouchees filled with spinach 
(No. 588), and three large game quenelles (No. 228). Arrange these to 
represent one single bouquet, and serve. 

524. Porterhouse Steak.  Procure two porterhouse steaks of one 
and a half pounds each  see that they are cut from the short loin  
flatten them well, pare and trim, and season with one pinch of salt and 
half a pinch of pepper. Put them on a dish with half a tablespoonful of 
oil; roll well, and put them on a moderate fire to broil seven minutes on 
each side. Lay them on a warm dish, pour one gill of maltre d'hfitel 



232 THE TABLE. 



butter (No. 145) over, and serve with a little watercress around the 
dish. 

625. Donble Porterhouse Steak.  Have a fine porterhouse steak of 
three pounds, and proceed as for No. 524. Broil on a rather slow char- 
coal fire, if possible, ten minutes on each side, then serve as for the 
abc^e. 

526. Hamburg Steak, Russian Sauce. Take two pounds of lean 
beef  ^the hip part is preferable  remove all the fat, and put it in a Salis- 
bury chopping machine; then lay it in a bowl, adding a very finely 
chopped shallot, one raw egg for each pound of beef, a good pinch of salt, 
half a pinch of pepper, and a third of a pinch of grated nutmeg. Mix 
well together, then form it into six flat balls the size of a small fillet. 
Roll them in fresh bread-crumbs, and fry them in the pan with two table- 
spoonfuls of clarified butter for two minutes on each side, turning them 
frequently and keeping them rare. Serve with half a pint of Russian 
sauce (No. 2il) or any other desired. 

627. Boast Beef.  In order to have a fine piece of beef cooked to per- 
fection, and at the same time have it retain all its juices, purchase, from a 
first-class butcher only, a three-rib piece near the short loin part. Saw 
oft the spine, also the bones of the three ribs to one inch from the meat, so 
as to have it as nearly a round shape as possible. Season with one and a 
quarter pinches of salt, divided equally all over, tie it together, and place 
it lengthwise in a roasting-pan. Pour a tablespoonful and a half of 
water into the pan so as to prevent its burning, then a few very small bits 
of butter can be distributed on top of the beef, if so desired. Set it in <i 
rather moderate oven, and let roast for one hour and ten minutes, taking 
care to baste frequently with its own gravy. Remove it from the oven, 
untie, and dress it on a very hot dish, skim the fat from the gravy, and 
pour in. two tablespoonfuls of broth, heat up a little, strain the gravy into 
a sauce-bowl, and send to the table. 

The paring^s from the beef can be utilized for soup-stock; nothing need 
be wasted. 

628. Corned Beef Hash k la Polonaise.  Brown iii a saucepan two 
onions, with one ounce of butter; add one pound of cooked, well-chopped^ 
corned beef, and one pint of hashed potatoes. Moisten with a gill of 
broth, and a gill of Espagnole (No. 151). Season with half a, pinch of 
pepper and a third of a pinch of nutmeg ; stir well and let cook for fifteen 
minutes, then serve with six poached eggs on top (No. 404), and sprinkle 
over with a pinch of chopped parsley. 

629. Corned Beef Hash an Gfratin.  Make a hash as for the above, 
(No. 528), put it in a lightly buttered baking-dish, and besprinkle with 
rasped bread-crumbs. Moisten slightly with about one teaspoonful of 
clarified butter, and bake in the oven for fifteen minutes, or until it obtains 
a good brown color ; then serve. 

530. Corned Beef Hash k la Zingara. The same as for No. 528, 
adding to the hash two 'good-sized, freshly peeled, and cut-up tomatoes 
(or half a pint of canned), one bruised clove of garlic, and one pinch 



BEEF. 



233 



of chopped parsley. Let all cook together for fifteen minutes, then 
serve. 

631. Corned Beef Hash en Bordnre.  Form a border around a baking- 
dish with mashed potatoes (No. 998), set it for two minutes in the oven, 
then fill the centre with hot, corned beef hash (No. 528). Besprinkle the 
top with one pinch of chopped parsley, and serve. 

632. Beef-Tongne \il la Oendarme. Boil a fresh beef-tongue in the 
soup-stock for one hour and a half. Skin it, then place it on a dish, 
adding one pint of Gendarme garnishing, made by pouring a pint of 
Madeira sauce (No. 185) into a saucepan. Put it on the hot stove, and 
add twelve small godiveau quenelles (No. 221). Cut up six small, sound 
pickles, four mushrooms, and two ounces of smoked beef-tongue ; add these 
to the sauce, and let cook for five minutes, stirring it lightly, then serve. 

633. Beef-Tongae, Sauce Piqnante.  The same as for the above. No. 
532. When the tongue is ready, decorate it with pickles, and serve with 
a pint of sauce piquante (No. 203) separate, instead of the other gar- 
nishing. 

634. Beef-Tongue, Napolitaine. The same as for No. 532, adding one 
pint of hot Napolitaine garnishing ( No. 195), instead of the other garnishing. 

636. Beef-Tongae & la Jardiniere.  The same as for No. 532, adding 

one pint of hot Jardinifere (No. 1033), in place of the other garnishing. 

536. Beef-Tongne, TVith Spinach.  The same as for No. 532, sub- 
stituting one pint of spinach with gravy (No. 943) for the other gar- 
nishing. 

537. Beef-Tongne, an Bisotto.  The same as for No. 532, only 
adding one pint of hot Risotto (No. 1017) for the other garnishing. 

538. Beef-Tongne h. la Milanaise. The same as for No. 532, only 

substituting one pint of Milanaise garnishing (No. 251) for the other. 

639. Bonlade of Beef h, I'Ecarlate.  Procure six pounds of fine 
.brisket of prime beef; roll it up as close as possible, so as to have it very 
firm, then firmly tie it around. Put in a saucepan one sound, peeled 
onion, one well-washed and scraped, sound carrot, both cut into thin 
slices, one sprig of thyme, one bay-leaf, three cloves, and a few shreds 
of larding-pork. Place the roulade over all. Season with two pinches of 
salt and one pinch of pepper. Cover the pan very tightly to prevent 
steam from escaping. Should the lid be loose, place a weight on top of 
it. Place it on a moderate fire, and let gently simmer for twenty minutes 
in all. Remove the lid, add two glasses of white wine, and one gill of 
broth (No. 99). Cover very tightly again, place in the hot oven, and let 
braise for fully two hours. Remove from the oven, untie, dress on a hot 
dish. Skim the fat off the gravy, strain the gravy into a sautoire, 
and reduce it on the hot range to one-half. Cut up an ounce of cooked, 
smoked beef-tongue into cock's-comb shape, one good-sized, sound, sliced 
truffle, six godiveau quenelles (No. 221), and six mushrooms. Place all 
these in a sautoire on the fire, with half a wine-glassful of Madeira wine, 
letting boil for one minute. Strain the reduced gravy of the roulade over 
this; add half a gill of tomato sauce (No. 205), and half a gill of Espagnole 



234 "^^^ TABLE. 



sauce (No. 151). Cook again for five minutes, then pour it into a sauce- 
bowl and send to the table separate, very hot. 

540. Stewed Beef Ji I'Egyptieime.  Cut two pounds o beef into 
small, square pieces, brown them in a stewpan with one ounce of butter, 
adding two onions, cut into square pieces. When well browned, for 
about ten minutes, add two tablespoonfuls of flour; stir briskly with a 
pint and a half of white broth (No. gg), also one gill of tomato saui-e I'No. 
205). Season with one good pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, put 
in a bouquet (No. 254), one clove of crushed garlic, and let took for 
twenty-five minutes. Dish up the beef with a bunch of eighteen cooked 
gumbos (No. 1030), also three stalks of white, cooked celery. 

541. Stewed Beef a la Dnfonr.  Prepare two pounds of small, square 
cuts of beef, brown them with two onions cut in square pieces, adding 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, cooking for six minutes. Stir well, and 
moisten with one quart of broth (No. gg), and one gill of tqmato sauce 
(No. 205.) Put in also one pint of raw potatoes, cut in quarters, and let 
cook thoroughly for twenty-five minutes, with a bouquet (No. 254), a 
good pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, also ona crushed garlic; 
then serve. 

542. Stewed Beef k la Tnrqne.  Cook the beef as directed in No. 
541, substituting a good teaspoonful of curry, and serve with six timbales 
filled with cooked rice (No. 501). Unmold them, arid use them instead 
of the potatoes. 

543. Stewed Beef k la Marseillaige.  Proceed the same as for No. 
541, omitting the potatoes, but adding ,two tomatoes cut in pieces, six 
chopped mushrooms, and two crushed cloves of garlic, all cooked six 
minutes with the beef. Serve with a teaspoonful of chopped parsley 
strewn over. 

544. Tripe \l la Bordelaise.  Take a pound and a half of lozenge- 
shaped pieces of tripe, cut into twelve parts. Marinate them for two 
hours in one tablespoonful of oil, with a pinch of salt, half a pinch of pep- 
per, one bay-leaf, one sprig of thyme, six whole peppers, the juice of one 
sound lemon, and one crushed clove of garlic. Drain, roll them in flour, 
then'in beaten egg, and finally in fresh bread-crumbs. Fry in one ounce of 
clarified butter in a pan for five minutes on each side, and serve with a gill 
of maitre d'h6tel butter (No. 145), adding to it a teaspoonful of meat- 
glaze (No. 141). 

545. Tripe k la Creole.  Cut a pound and a half of tripe into small 
pieces, fry them in a pan with two ounces of butter, one chopped onion, 
and half a green pepper, also chopped. Brown them slightly for six 
minutes, then transfer them to a saucepan with one cut-up tomato and 
half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151). Season with one pinch of salt 
and half a pinch of pepper, adding a bouquet (No. 254), also a crushed 
clove of garlic. Cook for ten minutes and serve with one teaspoonful of 
chopped fjarsleyf 

546. Tripe klaPIeontte.  Shred one and a half pounds of tripe, 
brown it slightly for three minutes in a pan, with an ounce of butter, one 



VEAL. 



235 



pinch of salt, and half a pinch of pepper; then transfer it to a saucepan, 
with half a pint of good AUemande sauce (No. 210). Let cook five 
minutes longer, then squeeze in the juice of half a lempn, besprinkle with 
a pinch of chopped parsley, and serve. 

547. Tripe ll la Mode de Caen,  Take one raw, double tripe, one ox- 
foot, three calf's feet, all well-washed and cleansed several times in fresh 
water, cutting them in pieces two inches long by one square. Have an 
earthen pot, or a saucepan, put pieces of feet at the bottom, cover over 
with tripe, then a layer of sliced carrots and onions, and continue the 
same until the vessel is full, carefully seasoning each layer. Tie in 
a cloth a sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, twelve whole peppers, and six 
cloves; put this in the middle of the pot, throw over a bottleful of 
cider or white wine, and a little brandy (say one pony); lay on the top 
the stalks of some green leeks, parsley-roots, and cabbage leaves; cover, 
and fasten it down with paste, so that the steam cannot escape, and leave 

. it for about ten hours in a very slow oven. Take it from the oven and 
serve when required. 

548. Tripe k la Lyonnaise.  Cut up a pound and a half of double 
tripe, also two onions, and brown them in the pan with one ounce of 
clarified butter until they assume a fine golden color. Drain them, put 
them back on the fire, add one tablespoonful of vinegar and a gill of 
good Espagnole (No. 157). Stew for two minutes longer, and serve with 
a pinch of chopped parsley sprinkled over. 

A pinch of salt represents 205 grains, or a tablespoonful. 

Half a pinch of pepper represents 38 grains, or a teaspoonful. 

A third of a pinch of nutmeg represents 13 grains, or half a teaspoonful. 



VKAL. 



549. Blanqnette of Veal. Cut into two-inch-square pieces two and 
a. half pounds of breast of veal. Soak it in fresh water for one hour ; 
drain it well, then lay it in a saucepan ; cover with fresh water ; boil, and 
be very careful to skim off all the scum. Add a well-garnished bouquet 
(No. 254), six small, well-peeled, sound, white onions, two good pinches 
ofsalt and a pinch of white pepper. Cook for forty minutes. Melt about 
an ounce and a half of butter in another saucepan, add to it three table- 
spoonfuls of flour, stir well for three minutes ; moisten with a pint of 
broth from the veal ; boil for five minutes. Set it on the side of the 
stove. Beat up in a bowl three egg yolks, with the juice of a medium- 
sized, sound lemon and a very little grated nutmeg. Take the prepar- 
ation in the saucepan, gradually add it to the egg yolks, &c., briskly mix 
with a wooden spoon meanwhile until all added. Throw this over the 
veal, lightly toss the whole, but be careful not to allow to boil again; 



236 THE TABLE. 



then serve. AH blanquettes are prepared the same way, adding different 
garnisbings. 

650. Blanqnette of Veal kla Eeine.  The same as for No. 549, add- 
ing six chopped mushrooms, and twelve godiveau quenelles (No. 221) 
two minutes before serving. 

551. Blanquette of Veal with Peas.  The same as for No. 549, add- 
ing one pint of copked, green, or canned blanched peas two minutes 
before serving. 

552. Blanqnette of Veal with Souilles.  The same as for No. 549, 
adding a quarter of a pound of cooked nouilles (No. 1182) around the 
serving-dish as a border. 

553. Blanqnette of Veal & I'Ancienne.  The same as for No. 549, 
adding one ounce of salt pork cut into small pieces, and cooked with the 
meat from the commencement, and six sliced mushrooms two minutes 
before serving. 

554. Brisotin of Veal.  Cut up six pieces of lean veal about a quarter 
of an inch thick, and of the length of the hand. Flatten them, and season 
with one pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper. Lard the centres, using 
a small larding needle, with strips of larding-pork. Lay any kind of 
forcemeat at hand on them, roll- well, and tie with a string. Put them 
into a deep sautoire with a very little fat, one sliced carrot, arid one 
medium-sized, sliced onion. Cover the whole with a piece of buttered 
paper ; set it on the fire, and let it take a good golden color for about five 
minutes. Moisten with half a pint of white broth (No. 99), then put the 
saucepan in the oven, and cook slowly for twenty minutes, basting it 
occasionally, and serve. 

Brisotins are all prepared the same way, adding different garnishings. 

555. Brisotin of Veal Si I'Eeariate.  The same as for No. 554, add- 
ing half a pint of hot 6carlate sauce (No. 539). 

556. Brisotin of Veal, Nantaise.  The same as for No. 554, placing 
six stuffed lettuce-heads (No. 953) around the dish, and pouring one gill 
of hot Madeira sauce (No. 185) over it. 

557. Calf's Brains with Black Bntter.  Place three fine, fresh calf's 
brains in cold water, and then peel off the skins. Wash again in cold 
water ; neatly drain ; put them in a sautoirfe and cover with fresh water. 
Add two pinches of salt, half a cupful of vinegar, one medium-sized, sliced 
carrot, one sprig of thyme, one bay-leaf, and twelve whole peppers. Boil 
for five minutes, drain well, and cut each brain in two. Dress them on a 
dish, and serve with a gill of very hot black butter (No. 159). 

Calf's brain is always prepared as above, adding any desired sauce. 

658. Calf 's Brains k la Vinaigrette.  Exactly the same as for No. 
557, serving on a folded napkin on a dish, garnishing with a few green 
parsley-leaves, and a gill of vinaigrette sauce (No. 201), separately. 

559. Fried Calf's Brains, Tartare Sance.  Proceed as in No. 557, then 
dry the brains well in a napkin ; bread them i, I'Anglaise (No. 301), and 
fry in hot grease for five minutes. Serve with half a pint of tartare sauce 
(No, 207), separately. 



VEAL. 



237 



560. Teal Cutlets & la Pagrasqui.  Chop well two or three times in 
the machine two pounds of lean veal, from tlie hip if possible; place the 
meat in a bowl with two ounces of finely chopped, raw veal-suet. Season 
with one. good pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and the third of a 
pinch of nutmeg. Add half a cupful of good crstem, one chopped shallot 
and two raw eggs. Mix well together. Shape six pieces like chops, 
sprinkle them with bread-crumbs, and fry in a stewpan with two ounces 
of clarified butter for four minutes on each side. Serve with a gill of any 
kind of sauce. 

561. Veal Cutlets \ la St. Cloud.  Lard thoroughly six veal cutlets 
with two small truffles, cut julienne-shape, one ounce of cooked beef- 
tongue, and one ounce of larding-pork, both cut the same. Place them in 
a sautoire with a pinch of salt, one sliced carrot, and one sliced onion, and 
let them brown for ten minutes, being careful to keep the lid on the pan. 
Moisten with half a pint of broth, and put them in the oven to finish cook- 
ing for at least fiifteen minutes. Serve with a hot salpicon sauce, the 
chicken cut in large pieces (No. 256), pouring the sauce on the dish, and 
lay the chops on top. 

562. Teal Cutlets k la Mar^chale.  Pare nicely six veal cutlets; season 
them with a tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonf ul of pepper. Cook in a 
sautoire with two ounces of butter for five minutes on each side. Moisten 
with half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), adding four sliced mush- 
rooms, twelve small godiveau quenelles (No. 221), and three chicken 
livers, blanched and cut into pieces. Cook for five minutes longer, and 
serve with six croutons (No. 133). 

563. Teal Cutlets & la Milanaise.  Pare nicely and season well with a 
tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper six veal cutlets. . Dip 
them in beaten egg, then in grated Parmesan cheese, and finally in fresh 
bread-crumbs. Flatten them, and cook them ip a sautoire with six ounces 
of clarified butter for five minutes on each side, and serve with half a pint 
of garnishing Milanaise (No. 251). 

To prepare breaded veal cutlets with tomato sauce, bread six cutlets 
as for the above, omit the cheese, cook them as described, and serve with 
half a pint of tomato sauce (No. 205). 

564. Broiled Teal Cutlets.  Cut six even veal cutlets from a fine 
piece of the loin of white veal, pare them and flatten them slightly ; lay 
them on a dish, and season with a tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of 
pepper, and one tablespoonful of sweet oil. Turn the cutlets around 
several times ; then put them on the broiler to broil for eight minutes on 
each side. Remove them from the fire ; arrange them on a hot dish, 
spread a little maitre d'h6tel (No. 145) over them, and send to the 
table. 

565. Teal Cutlets & la Philadelphia.  Pare and brown in a sautoire 
with two ounces of butter six veal cutlets. Season them with a pinch of 
salt and half a pinch of pepper, turning them carefully at times. Add two 
onions cut in thick slices, and place the lid on the sautoire. Stir the onions 
occasionally, and when of a golden brown color, moisten with half a pint 



238 THE TABLE. 



of Espagnole sauce (No. 151). Cook for fifteen minutes, and serve with 
one teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 

566. Teal Cutlets en Fapillotes.  Pare nicely six veal cutlets; put 
them in a sautoire with one ounce of butter, and season with a table- 
spoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper. Add half a chopped onion, 
and brown slightly. Cook for eight minutes with four finely chopped 
mushrooms, moistening with a gill of Espagnole sauce (No. 151). Cook 
for four minutes longer. Then take out the cutlets, drain them, and put 
them to cool. Add to the gravy a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and 
two tablespoonfuls of fresh bread-crumbs. Now take six pieces of oiled 
white paper cut heart-shaped, put a thin slice of cooked ham on one side 
of the paper ; then lay on the ham a little of the stock, and on top of it a 
cutlet, and another layer of the stock, and over all a thin slice of cooked 
ham. Cover with the second part of the. paper, close it by folding the 
two edges firmly together, and proceed, the same with the other cutlets. 
Bake for a short time (at most five minutes) in the oven, rather slowly, 
and then serve. 

567. Curry of Veal it I'lndienne.  Cut into pieces and blanch in salted 
water two pounds of any kind of lean, raw veal. Drain and wash them 
well. Put the pieces into a saucepan, and coyer them with warm water; 
seasoning with two pinches of salt and one pinch of pepper, adding also a 
bouquet (No. 254), and six small whole onions. Cook for twenty-five 
minutes. Then make a gill of roux blanc (No. 135), in a saucepan, 
moistening it with the liquor from the veal ; stir it well, and then add a 
tablespoonful of diluted curry-powder and three raw egg yolks, beating 
up as they are put in. Dress the veal on a hot dish ; immedfetely strain 
the roux over it (as it must not cook again). Neatly arrange half a pint of 
hot, plain, boiled rice all around the dish, then serve. 

56S. Escalops of Veal, plain.  Pare and cut two pounds of veal 
(from the hip is preferable) into' six even steak-form slices. Season with 
one pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper. Then brown them in a 
sautoire on a very hot range, with one ounce of butter, for five minutes 
on each side ; dress on a hot dish, and serve with any kind of sauce or 
garnishing desired. 

669. Escalops of Veal a la DnxeUe.  Prepare six escalops as for No. 
568, adding a chopped shallot, six mushrooms shred as finely as possible, 
one crushed clove of garlic, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Moisten 
with a gin of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), and half a glassful of white 
wine. Cook for five minutes longer, pour them on a hot dish, place the 
escalops over, and then serve. 

570. Escalops of Veal with Stuffed Peppers.  Proceed exactly as for 
No. 568, adding the juice of half a medium-sized, sound lemon, and a gill 
of hot Madeira sauce (No. 185). Cook for three minutes longer, and dec- 
orate the dish with six stufifed green-peppers (No. 975) three minutes 
before serving. 

571. Escalops of Veal k la Chicoree.  Prepare and proceed precisely 
the same as for No. 568. Cook for eight minutes. Then dress half 



VEAL. 239 

a pint of chicor6e au jus (No. 934) on the hot dish, and send to the 
table. J 

572. Escalops of Veal il I'ltallenne.  The same as for No. 568, adding 
one medium-sized, chopped onion, six chopped mushrooms, one teaspoon- 
ful of parsley, and a crushed clove of garlic. Moisten with half a glassful 
of white wine, and cook for five minutes with a gill of Espagnole sauce 
(No. 151), and serve. 

573. Escalops of Veal k la Provenqale.  Prepare as for No. 568, 
replacing the butter by the same quantity of oil. Season well, and when 
browned on both sides add one shallot or a finely chopped onion. Let 
them color, and then moisten with a gill of broth. Add two tablespoon- 
fuls of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), three chopped cSpes, two crushed 
cloves of garlic, and a teaspootrful of parsley. Boil once, and then serve 
with six croutons of fried bread (No. 133). 

574r. Escalops of Sweetbreads k la Richelieu.  Take four blanched 
sweetbreads (No. 601); cut them into slices, and stew them in a saucepan, 
with an ounce of butter and half a glassful of white wine. Season with 
a tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, and' half a teaspoonful of 
nutmeg. Cook for six minutes, then moisten with a gill of thick Alle- 
mande sauce (No. 210), and add two sliced truffles and four sliced mush- 
rooms. Fill six scallop-shells with the preparation; sprinkle the tops 
with fresh bread-crumbs; pour a few drops of clarified butter over all, 
and brown slightly in the oven for five minutes. Serve on a dish with a 
folded napkin. 

575. Minced Veal k la Catalan.  Mince two pounds of lean veal, and 
brown it in a saucepan with three tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, one onion 
cut in quarters, and half a minced green-pepper. When a fine color, add 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, and mix thoroughly. Moisten with one pint 
of white broth (No. gg), and season with a heaped tablespoonful of salt, a 
teaspoonful of pepper; stir briskly, and add a bouquet (No. 254), three 
cloves of crushed garlic, and a gill of tomato sauce (No. 205). Cook well for 
twenty-five minutes ; then serve, sprinkling a little chopped parsley over it. 

578. Minced Veal k la Kiscaenne.  Proceed as for No. 575, adding one 
pint of potatoes Parisiennes (No. 986), and two cut-up tomatoes, fifteen 
minutes befbre serving. 

577. Fricandean with Sorrel.  Cut a slice of three pounds from a leg 
of veal; remove the_, sinews, and lard the surface with a medium-sized 
larding needle. Place it in a sautoire in which there are- already pieces 
of pork-skin, one sliced onion, one sliced carrot, and a bouquet (No. 254). 
Season with a tablespoonful of salt, cover with a buttered paper, and let it 
color slightly for five minutes on the stove. Then moisten with half a 
pint of white broth (No. gg), and cook one hour, basting it occasionally. 
Serve with half a pint of puree of sorrel (No. g74) on the dish, placing the 
veal on top. 

All fricandeaus are prepared in the same way. 

57.8. Fricandean with Spinach.  The same as for No. 577, adding half 
a pint of hot spinach au gras (No. 943) instead of the sorrel. 



'240 THE TABLE. 



579. Fricandean & la Morlaisienne.  The same as for No. 577, serving 
it with a gill of hot Madeira sauce (No. 185), and garnishing with six small 
stuffed cabbages around the dish (No. gig). 

580. Calf's Liver Stewed k I'ltalienne. Cut two pounds of fresh 
calf's liver into small pieces. Put them with one ounce of clarified butter 
into a pan on the hot range, with one peeled and finely chopped, sound 
onion, and a clove of crushed garlic. Season with one pinch of salt and half 
a pinch of pepper. Cook well for five minutes, shuffling the pan well 
meanwhile, then moisten with half a glassful of white wine and a gill of 
Espagnole sauce (No. 151). Add six chopped mushrooms, and cook once 
more for three minutes. Serve with a teaspoonful of finely chopped 
parsley. 

581. Calf's Liver Saut a la Provengale.  Proceed as for No. 580, 
adding two crushed cloves of garlic. Squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. 
Serve with a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 

582. Calf's Liver k I'Alsacienne.  Cut two pounds of calf 's liver into 
square pieces , and put them in a sautoire with one ounce of clarified butter. 
Season with a tablespoonful of salt and a teaspo.onful of pepper, and add 
two medium-sized, sliced onions. When well stewed for six minutes, pour 
in a teaspoonful of vinegar, and two tablespoonfuls of Espagnole sauce (No. 
151), and let it just come to a boil. Serve with a little chopped parsley. 

583. Calf's Liver Braised k la Bonrgeoise.  Place a small calf's liver, 
larded thoroughly with pieces of larding pork, previously seasoned with 
a pinch of chopped parsley and a hashed clove of garlic, in a saucepan on 
the fire, with two tablespoonfuls of clarified butter, one sprig of thyme, 
two bay-leaves, half a sliced carrot, and half a sliced onion. Turn the 
liver over and moisten it with one gill of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), and 
a gill of white broth (No. gg). Season with a pinch of salt and half a 
pinch of pepper, and cook for forty-five minutes. Strain the sauce into 
another saucepan (meanwhile keeping the liver in a warm place), adding 
to the gravy two medium-sized, sound, well-scraped, sliced, raw carrots, 
a;nd two, ounces of salt pork cut into shreds. Stew well together for 
twenty-five minutes, and pour the garnishing over the liver just before 
serving, decorating with six small onions around the dish. 

584. Calf's Liver Broiled with Bacon.  Take a nice, tender, fresh 
calf's liver weighing a pound and a half ; pare and trim off the hard por- 
tions; cut it into six equal-sized slices, and put them_on a dish. Season 
with a tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, and one tablespoon- 
ful of sweet oil ; mix well together. Broil for four minutes on each side. 
Arrange the slices on a hot serving-dish, and decorate with six thin and , 
crisp slices of broiled bacon (No. 754). Spread a gill of maitre d'h^tel 
butter (No. 145) over, and serve very hot. 

585. Loin of Veal, Boasted.  Saw from a fine, white, fresh, and fat 
loin of veal with the kidney, the spine, and whatever hip-bone remains. 
Season the loin with a tablesj oonful and a half of salt, and one heaped 
teaspoonful of pepper and roll the flank part neatly over the kidney, and 
tie it with a string. 



VEAL. 



241 



Have ready a-lightly buttered roasting-pan. Lay in it the loin; pour 
in half -a. glassful of water, and distribute a few bits of butter over the 
meat. Then cover its entire length with a piece of well-buttered paper. 
Place the pan in a moderate oven, and roast it for one hour and three- 
quarters, meanwhile basting it frequently with its own gravy. Take it 
out of the oven, untie it, and place it on a hot serving-dish. Add three 
tablespoonfuls of broth to the gravy in the pan, skim off the fat and re- 
duce it to the consistency of a demi-glace sauce; then strain it through a 
colander, either over the roast or into a separate sauce-bowl, and send it 
to the table immediately. 

Loin of lamb, roasted, is to be prepared exactly as above described, 
letting it cook fifty minutes instead of an hour and three-quarters. 

Loin of mutton is also to be roasted and served in the same way, but 
one hour's cooking will be sufficient. 

586. Grenadins of Veal, Pui'^e of Peas. Cut into six pieces two 
pounds of lean veal from off the leg; extract the sinews, and lard the veal 
nicely on one side, using a needle for the purpose. Lay the pieces in a 
sautoire, with one carrot, one onion, and some scraps of pork, and let 
them brown together for six minutes. Season with a. tablespoonful of 
salt, and moisten with a gill of white broth (No. 99). Put the sautoire 
into the oven, covering it with a piece of buttered paper. After thirty 
minutes, or when of a good color, remove, and serve with half a pint of 
hot pur6e of peas (No. 49) on the dish, the grenadins on top, and the gravy 
strained over all. 

587. Grenadins of Teal h la Chipolata.  The same as for No. 586, only 
adding half a pint of hot chipolata garnishing (No. 232) instead of the 
peas. 

588. Grenadins of Veal a la Serign^.  The same as for No. 586, only 
decorating the dish with six bouchSes Sevign6,made by preparing six 
small bouchfees (No. 270), and filling them with very finely chopped 
spinach au jus (No 943). Lay the covers on and serve very hot with- 
out any other garnishing. 

589. Grenadins of Veal k I'AMcaine.  Prepare the same as for No. 
586, serving very hot, with three small, stuffed egg-plants (No. 909), and 
eighteen medium-sized, cooked gumbos (No. 1030). 

590. Braised Noix of Veal k la Proiidence.  Lard thoroughly a knuckle 
of veal of three pounds, braise it nicely in a. saucepan with an ounce of 
fresh salt pork, one tablespoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of pepper. 
Cook for fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally, and moistening with half 
a pint of white broth (No. 99), and half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 
151.) Add one pint of raw Jardinifere (No. 1033) and a cupful of flageolets. 
Cook for forty-five minutes all together. Transfer the knuckle to a hot 
dish, pour the garnishing over, and serve. 

591. Braised Noix of Veal en Daube. Proceed the same as for 
braised beef en Daube (No. 483). 

592. Panpietteof Veal k la Faubonne. Cut two pounds of veal off the 
leg into six thin slices. Pare them to the size of the hand, and season 

16 



242 



THE TABLE. 



with a tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper. Fill them with 
any kind of forcemeat, roll, and tie together with string. Put them in a 
sautoire with small scraps of pork, adding half a sliced carrot and half a 
sliced onion. Cover with a barde of larding pork on top, and brown for 
ten minutes. Moisteii with a gill of white broth (No. 99); cover with 
buttered paper, and put in the oven to finish cooking for twenty-five 
minutes. Serve with half a pint of purfee of lentils (No. 46), mixed 
with two tablespoonfuls of cream, and a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley. 

593. Panpiette of Veal kl'Ecarlate.  The same as for No. 592,. pour- 
jng half a pint of hot Ecarlate sauce (No. 247) over the panpiettes. 

594. Panpiette of Veal, Pnr6e of Chestnuts.  The same as for No. 
592, adding half a pint of hot pur6e of chestnuts (No. 131). 

595. Panpiette of Veal, Sauce Duxelle.  The same as for No. 592, 
putting half a pint of hot Duxelle sauce (No. 189) on the dish, and 
arranging the panpiettes over it. 

596. Breast of Veal k la Milanaise.  Bone a breast of veal of two and 
a half pounds ; season with one tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of 
pepper. Stuff it in the usual way with forcemeat (No. 229). Roll and tie 
it, making a few incisions in the skin, and put it in a saucepan, With one 
sliced carrot and one sliced onion. Braise it for one hour and a half in 
the oven, basting it occasionally with its own gravy. Serve with half a 
pint of hot Milanaise garnishing (No. 251) on the dish, placing the meat 
on top, and straining the gravy over it. 

597. Calf's Feet, Naturel. Split each of three calf's feet in two; re- 
move the large bone, and put them in fresh water for one hour. Wash 
thoroughly, drain, and place them in a saucepkn, with two tablespoonfuls 
of flour and three quarts of cold water. Stir well; add a gill of vinegar, 
one onion, one carrot (all cut in shreds), twelve whole peppers, a handful 
of salt, and a bouquet (No. 254), and cook briskly for one hour and a half. 
Drain well, and serve with any kind of sauce required. 

598. Calf's Feet k la Ponlette.  The same as for No. 597, adding half a 
pint of hot poulette sauce, made by putting one pint of hot Allemande sauce 
(No. 210) into a saucepan, with one ounce of fresh butter, adding the 
juice of half a medium-sized lemon, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 
Heat well on the hot stove until thoroughly melted and mixed, but do 
not let it boil. Keep the sauce warm, and serve for all sauce poulettes. 

599. Calf S Feet, Sauce Piquante.  Same as for No. 597, adding half 
a pint of hot piquante sauce (No. 203). ' 

600. Calf's Feet, Sauce Bemoulade.  Same as for No. 597, adding half 
a pint of hot Remoulade sauce (No. 209). i 

601. How to Blanch Sweetbreads.  Cl^an and neatly trim three pairs 
of fine sweetbreads. Soak them for three hours in three different fresh 
waters, one hour in each water, with one pinch of salt in each water. 
Drain, place in cold water, and blanch them until they come to a boil. 
Then drain, and freshen them in cold water. Cover with a napkin, lay 
them aside in a cool place, and they will now be ready for general use. 



VEAL. 



243 



When they are to be used in molds, they should be gently pressed down 
with a pound weight. 

602. SweetbreadSj Braised.  Take six blanched heart-sweetbreads as 
above, lard the upper parts- slightly, and put them in a sautoire with some 
slices of pork-skin. Add half a sliced carrot, hedf a sliced onion, and a bou- 
quet (No. 254). Sprinkle over them a pinch of salt, and cover them with a 
buttered paper. Reduce to a golden color, and moisten with half a pint 
of strong white broth (No. 99). Cook it in the oven for forty minutes, 
basting occasionally with the gravy, lifting the buttered paper, and re- 
placing it each time in the same position. The sweetbreads will now be 
ready to serve with any kind of sauce or garnishing desired. Alwayjs 
place the sauce or garnishing on a hot serving-dish, and lay the sweet- 
breads over it, then send to the table. 

603. Sweetbreads Braised & la Fmanci^re.  Prepare six sweetbreads, 
as in No. 602, and serve with half a pint of hot Financi^re sauce (No. 246). 

604. Sweetbreads Braised with Sorrel.  The same as for No. 602, 
adding half a pint of hot pur6e of sorrel (No. 974). 

605. Sweetbreads Braised au Salpicon.  The same as for No. 602, 
adding half a pint of hot salpicon (No. 256). 

606. Sweetbreads & la Sbnbise.  The same as for No. 602, adding half 
a pint of hot soubise (No. 250), 

607. Sweetbreads Braised, with Spinach.  The same as for No. 602, 
adding half a pint of hot spinach (No. 943). 

608. Sweetbreads k la Sauce Dnxelle.  The same as for No 602, add- 
ing half a pint of hot duxelle sauce (No. 189). 

609. Sweetbreads Braised, with Mushroom Sance.  The same as for 
No. 602, adding half a pint of hot mushroom sauce (No. 230). 

610. Sweetbreads Braised & la Sance B^amaise.  The same as for 
No. 602, adding half a pint of hot B6arnaise sauce (No. 166). 

611. Sweetbreads Braised anx Cepes. The same as for No. 602, add- 
ing half a pint of hot cSpes. 

612. Sweetbreads Braised anx Gonrmets.  The same as for No. 602, 
adding half a pint of hot gourmet garnishing (No. 241). 

613. Sweetbreads Braised k la Parisienne. The same as for No. 602, 
adding half a pint of hot Parisienne garnishing (No. 240). 

614. Sweetbreads Braised ^ la Godard.  The same as for No. 602, 
adding half a pint of hot Godard garnishing (No. 238). 

615. Sweetbreads Braised k la Montglas. Place six braised sweet- 
breads, prepared as for No. 602, in six small, buttered paper-boxes, having 
cooked fine herbs (No. 143) strewn around the bottom. Heat in the oven 
for five minutes ; then pour one tablespoonful of hot montglas sauce (No. 
213) over each. Serve on a dish with a folded napkin. 

616. Stewed Sweetbreads k la Catalan. Cut four blanched sweet- 
breads (No. 601) into slices; put theibi in a sautoire with half a gill of 
sweet oil, one tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, two well- 
hashed shallots, and half a sliced green pepper. Reduce to a good golden 
color for about six minutes, and add two peeled tomatoes cut into pieces, 



244 ^^-^ TABLE, 



one gill of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), and a crushed clove of garlic. 
Cook for ten minutes ; arrange on a hot dish, and serve. 

617. Sweetbreads Broiled il la Colbert.  Cut in two each of three fine 
blanched sweetbreads as in No. 601. Season them with one pinch of salt 
and half a pinch of pepper, and pour one tablespoonful of sweet oil over 
them ; mix them in well, and then broil them on a brisk fire for five min- 
utes on each side. Dress on a hot dish, and serve with half a pint of hot 
Colbert sauce (No. 190). 

618. Sweetbreads Braised h, la Pompadour.  Braise the sweetbreads 
exactly as for No. 602. Serve with half a pint of hot Bfearnaise sauce 
(No. 166), two trufHes cut in small square pieces ; arrange six artichoke- 
bottoms on the sauce, place a sweetbread on each artichoke, with a thin 
slice of truffle on top of each, and serve. 

619. Sweetbread Croquettes, P^rigueux Sauce.  Prepare six sweet- 
bread croquettes (No. 276), and serve them on a dish with a folded nap- 
kin. Serve half a pint of P6rigueux sauce (No. igi), separate. 

620. Sweetbread Croquettes with Peas.  The same as for No. 619, 
adding half a pint of cooked peas, with a gill of Madeira sauce (No. 185), 
cooked together for two minutes. Pour it on the dish ; place the cro- 
quettes over it, and serve. 

621. Coquilles of Sweetbreads k la Dreux. Cut four blanched sweet- 
breads (No. 601) into small,slices, and stew them in a saucepan with half 
an ounce of good butter, half a glassful of white wine, and three table- 
spoonfuls of mushroom liquor. Reduce them for ten minutes, then add 
a gill of veloutfe sauce (No. 152), six minced mushrooms, and two truffles 
cut the same. Season with half a tablespoonful of salt, a scant teaspoon- 
ful of pepper, and half a teaspoonful of nutmeg, and finish by adding two 
tablespoonfuls of good cream, or half an ounce of good butter. Fill six 
silver table-shells with this ; sprinkle them with fresh bread-crumbs ; 
pour a few drops of clarified butter over them, and put them in the baking 
oven. Brown slightly for six minutes longer, and serve on a hot dish 
with a folded napkin. 

622. Coquilles of Sweetbreads k la Cardinal.  The same as for No. 
621, but instead of truffles use one ounce of smoked beef-tongue, and the 
same quantity of toiriato sauce (No. 205), instead of the cream. 

623. CoquiUes of Sweetbreads k la Reine.  Cut four blanched sweet- 
breads (No. 601) in slices, and fry them in half an ounce of butter, half a 
glassful of white wine, and three tablespoonfuls of mushroom liquor. 
Season with half a tablespoonful of salt, a scant teaspoonful of pepper, 
and half a teaspoonful of nutmeg. Reduce for ten minutes, and moisten 
with one gill of AUemande sauce (No. 210), adding six sliced mushrooms, 
two sliced truffles, and twelve small quenelles of godiveau (No. 221). 
Finish the same as for No. 621. 

624. Veal Stew, Marengo.  Cut three pounds of lean veal into pieces, 
and reduce them in a stewpan with one gill of oil, a cut-up onion or two 
shallots, and two ounces of salt pork, also cut up. Toss them occasion- 
ally, and when well browned after ten minutes, strew in two tablespoon- 



VEAL. 



245 



fuls of flour, stirring well again. Moisten with one quart of white broth 
(No. 99), and one gill of tomato sauce (No. 205) ; season with a good 
tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper, adding a crushed clove 
of garlic, and a bouquet (No. 254). Cook for forty minutes, and serve 
with six croutons (No. 133) around the dish, and a little chopped parsley 
sprinkled over it. 

625. Veal Stew i( la Proveilgale.  Cut three pounds of lean veal from 
the breast or shoulder into pieces, and place them in a stewpan with one 
ounce of butter, two tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, and one chopped onion. 
Cook them for ten minutes, stirring occasionally ; add two tablespooft- 
fuls of flour, stir again, and moisten with one quart of white broth (No. 
99). Season with a heaped tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of 
pepper, and add six minced mushrooms, three crushed cloves of garlic, 
and a bouquet (No. 254). Cook for forty minutes, and serve on a hot dish, 
sprinkling a little chopped parsley over it. 

626. Veal Stew ^ la Grecque.  Place two pounds of lean veal cut in 
pieces in a stewpan, with two ounces of butter and one cut-up onion, and 
reduce for ten minutes, adding two tablespoonfuls of flour. Moisten 
with one quart of white broth (No. 99), and one gill of tomato sauce (No. 
205). Add a heaped tablespoonful of salt, a. teaspoonful of pepper, and 
half a teaspoonful of nutmeg, a bouquet (No. 254), three white roots of 
table-celery, cut in two, and eighteen raw okras, pared whole. Cook 
for thirty minutes, and serve with the dish nicely decorated with the 
garnishing. 

627. Veal, Stewed h laPortugaise.  The same as for No. 626, substitut- 
ing three stuffed tomatoes (No. 987), or plain, roasted tomatoes, and three 
timbales of cooked rice (No. 501) for the other garnishing. 

628. Veal, Stewed klaSolfeiino..  Reduce three pounds of pieces of 
veal cut from the breast or shoulder, in one ounce of butter, with six small 
onions. When cooked for ten minutes, add two tablespoonfuls of flour. 
Moisten with one quart of white broth (No. 99), and one gill of tomato 
sauce (No. 205), seasoning with one heaped tablespoonful of salt, and one 
teaspoonful of pepper. Stir well together until it reaches boiling-point; 
then add two carrots, and two turnips cut out with a. vegetable-scoop, and 
a bouquet (No. 254). Cook again for forty minutes, and serve. 

 Any kind of vegetables in season can be added. 

629. Veal, Stewed h, la Bourgeoise.  Reduce in one ounce of butter 
three pounds of lean veal cut in pieces, with six small onions. After 
cooking ten minutes add two tablespoonfuls of flour, and moisten with 
one quart of white broth (No. 99). Stir well, and season with ohe 
heaped tablespoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of pepper, and half a glass- 
ful of red wine. Add two carrots cut in square pieces, one ounce of salt 
pork also cut in pieces, and a bouquet (No. 254). Cook for forty minutes 
longer, remove the bouquet, and serve. 

630. Veal, Stewed with Oyster-plant. The same as for No. 629, sub- 
stituting for the garnishing one bunch of well-cleaned, raw oyster-plant 
cut into pieces, forty minutes before serving. 



246 THE TABLE. 



631. Veal, Stewed with Peas. The same as for No. 629, substituting 
one pint of fresh peas ^or the oyster-plant thirty minutes before serving. 
Should green peas be out of season, use one pint of canned peas five 
minutes before serving. 

632. Veal, Stewed Si la Chasseur. The same as for No. 629, substitut- 
ing for the garnishing twelve minced mushrooms, sixteen quenelles de 
godiveau (No. 221), and one clove of garlic three minutes before serving. 
Serve with six croiitons (No. 133) around the dish. 

638. Tendron of Veal k la Nantaise.  Pare nicely three pounds of the 
breast of veal; make a few incisions on the top, and tie it firmly together; 
Lay it in a deep sautoire with a piece of pork-skin cut up, a carrot, and a 
cut-up onion. Cover with a buttered paper, and when it begias t^ color 
after five minutes, moisten it slightly with a pint of water or broth. 
Baste as frequently as possible, and let it cook one hour. Then put it on 
a dish, strain the sauce over it, garnish with six stuffed lettuce-heads (No. 
953). Decorate with a tablespoonful of croutons all around the dish, and 
serve. , 

634. Tendron of Veal with Sorrel. The same as for No. 633, sub- 
stituting one pint of cooked, hot sorrel (No. 974) on the dish, for the other 
garnishing. ' 

636. Tendron of Veal k la Morlaisienne.  The same as for No. 633, 
substituting six small stuffed cabbages (No." 919) for the other garnishing. 

636. Tendron of Veal a la CMpolata.  The same as for No. 633, pour- 
ing one pint of hot chipolata (No. 232) on the dish, and placing the tendron 
on top. 

637. Calf's Head, plain.  Plunge -a. fine, fresh, white calf's head into 
hot water for one minute, lift it up, sharply rub it all over with a coarse 
towel, so as to remove all the remaining hairs. Carefully cut the flesh, 
starting from the centre of the head, right down to the nostrils. Then, with 
a very keen knife, bone it from the top to the base on both sides. Place 
in a saucepan two tablespoonfuls of flour, one gill of vinegar, one medium- 
sized, well-cleaned, sliced carrot, one sound peeled onion, eighteen whole 
peppers, and two pinches of salt. Pour in very gradually two quarts of 
cold water  briskly stirring meanwhile until all added. > Cut up half of the 
head into six equal pieces; add them to the broth, as also the other whole 
half. Let all cook together on a moderate -fire for one hour and a half. 
Lift up the pieces and half the head, place the six pieces on a dry napkin. 
Have ready a hot dish with a folded napkin over it, neatly dress the six 
pieces on it, decorate with parsley-greens, and ' serve with any desired 
sauce. Place the remaining whole half in a. stone jar, strain the broth 
over it, and keep in a cool place for any purpose required. 

For calf's brains, see No. 557. 

638. Calfs Head k la Cavour.  Take half a. boiled calf's head as for 
No. 637. Before serving pour a gill of hot tomato sauce (No. 205) over 
it, and surround it with twenty-four stoned and blanched olives, arranged 
in clusters, and six sippets of fried bread (No. 133). 

639. Calf's Head kla Poulette. The same as for No. 637, pouring half 



MUTTON LAMB. 247 



a pint of hot poulette sauce (No. 598) over it, and sprinkling it with half 
a tablespoonful of parsley. 

(540. Calf's Head 'ik la Vinaigrette.  The same as for No. 637, laying a 
folded napkin on the dish, and arranging thereon the half of the head. 
Serve with parsley-leaves around the dish, and one pint of vinaigrette 
(No. 201), separately. 

641. Calf S Head en Tortlie.  Prepare and cut into six equal pieces, as 
for No. 637, half a calf's head. Place them on a hot dish, pour over it 
half a pint of hot tortue garnishing (No. 239), decorate with three pieces of 
heart-shaped, fried crofitons (No. 133), a little fried parsley, and senu 
to the table very hot. 

A pinch of salt represents 205 grains, or a tablespoonful. 

Half a pinch of pepper represents 38 grains, or a teaspoonful. 

A third of a pinch of nutmeg represents 13 grains, or half a teaspoonful. 



MUTTON LAMB. 



642. Mutton Chops k la Proyen^aJe. Flatten and pare neatly six fine, 
thick mutton chops, season them with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of 
pepper, oil them slightly with sweet oil, and then either broil or cook them 
in a sautoire for two minutes on one side only, and lay them aside to get 
cold. The chops should always be cooked for two minutes as above men- 

,tioned, after the garnishing has been prepared. 

Garnishing k la ProTCngale.  Peel two small, sound, white onions, 
mince them very fine, place them in a pan with boiling water for five min- 
utes to prevent them from getting brown, drain well, place them in a 
sautoire with one ounce of good butter, and cook for five minutes. Add 
a dash of white wine, a thin slice of garlic crushed with a spoon, half a 
spoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, and one gill of good bfechamel sauce 
(No. 154). Season with half a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper. Stir 
all well until it comes to a boil, then put it away to cool. Divide the 
garnishing over the cooked side of the six chops about a quarter of an 
inch in thickness ; besprinkle with fresh bread-crumbs mixed with a little 
grated Parmesan cheese. Carefully place the chops in a well-buttered 
pan, and pour a little clarified butter over them. Place in a very hot oven 
for five minutes, or until of a good color, and serve with half a pint of hot 
veloutfe (No. 152). 

643. Mutton Chops, Breaded. Flatten six fine, thick mutton chops, 
pare nicely, and season with one tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful 
of pepper. Dip them in beaten egg, roll in fresh bread-crumbs, and 
place in a sautoire with one ounce of clarified butter. Cook four minutes 



248 THE TABLE. 



on each side, and serve with half a pint of any hot sauce or garnishing 
desired. 

644. Mutton Chops, Bretonne.  Pare six nice mutton chops, season 
with a tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper, and pour a 
few drops of oil over each. Broil four minutes on each side. Arrange 
them on a dish, and serve with half a pint of pur6e of white beans (No. 
92), mingled with two tablespoonfuls of good, hot meat-glaze (No., 141). 

645. Mutton Chops k I'AMcaine.  Broil six mutton chops as for No. 
644, and serve with three stuffed egg-plants for garnishing (No.' gog), and 
twelve sliced okras in clusters, in place of the other garnishing. 

646. Mutton Chops k hi Napolitaine.  The same as for No. 644, but 
substituting for the garnishing half a pint of hot Napolitaine (No. 195). 

647. Chops Soyer, with Potatoes.  Take five pounds of saddle of 
mutton, cut and saw it into six pieces crosswise. Flatten, pare, and 
trim. Season with one tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper. 
Broil them for six minutes on each side, then place them on a hot dish, 
and serve with a garnishing of one pint, or the equivalent, of fried pota- 
toes (No. 993) around the dish. 

648. Leg of Mutton k la Fortugaise.  Take a medium-sized leg of 
mutton, cut off the shank-bone, trim well, and make, an incision on the 
first joint. Season with two pinches of salt and half a pinch of pepper, 
rub half an ounce of butter over it, and roast for one hour in a pan, basting 
occasionally with the gravy, and turning it once in a while. Remove from 
the oven ; dress on a hot dish, and serve with three stuffed tomatoes (No. 
1023), and' three timbales of cooked rice (No. 501), straining the gravy 
over. 

Plain roast leg of mutton is prepared the same, only served without 
any other garnishing than its own gravy'. 

649. Leg of Mutton k la Cond6.  Roast a leg of mutton the same as for 
No. 648, and serve it with half a pint of cooked red beans (No. 951) added 
to the gravy, either on the same dish as the leg, or in a separate bowl. 

650. Leg of Mutton, Bretonne.  Proceed the same as for No. 648, 
but using half a pint of cooked white beans instead of the other garnish- 
ing, and adding one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, also one hashed and 
browned onion. 

651. Leg of Mutton, Caper Sauce.  Pare a nice leg of mutton as for 
No. 648, put it on to boil in a stock-pot, filled with slightly salted cold 
water, add a bouquet (No. 254), and one cut-up carrot. Boil one hour 
and a quarter, and serve with half a pint of hot caper sauce, made by 
putting a pint of hot HoUandaise sauce (No. 160) into a saucepan with a 
light handful of capers, and heating thoroughly for five minutes without- 
boiling. 

652. Mutton Hash k la Zingara. Chop up two onions, and fry them 
in a saucepan with one ounce of butter for three minutes, adding one and 
a half pounds of cooked and hashed mutton, also one-fourth the quantity 
of hashed potatoes. Season with a good tablespoonful of salt, the 
same of pepper and half a saltspoonful of nutmeg. Also put in two cut- 



MUTTON LAMB. 



249 



up, raw tomatoes, a tablespoonfil of chopped parsley, and a crushed clove 
of garlic. Add a gill of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), and a gill of broth (No. . 
99). Mix all together, and cook twenty minutes, then serve with a pinch 
of chopped parsley sprinkled over the dish. 

653. Mutton Hash au Gratin. Proceed as for No. 652, omitting 
the tomatoes and garlic. Place the hash on a baking-dish, sprinkle a little 
fresh bread-crumbs over, spread a very little butter on top, and put into 
the oven until of a good golden color, for which it will require from eight 
to ten minutes. 

654. Lamb's Feet il la Poillette. The same as directed for calf's feet 
(No. 598), adding half a pint of hot poulette sauce (No. 595). 

655. Mutton Stew, Fermiferc. Put into a saucepan three pounds of 
breast or shoulder of mutton cut into square pieces, with one ounce of but- 
ter, and six small onions. Cook for ten minutes, or until of a good golden 
color. Add three tablespoonfuls of flour, mix well together, and moisten 
with three pints of light white broth or water, stirring continually while 
boiling. Season with a good tablespoonful of salt a teaspoonful of pep- 
per, and half a teaspoonful of nutmeg, adding two carrots and two 
turnips, cut in square pieces, a bouquet (No. 254), and one crushed 
clove of garlic. Cook on a moderate fire for thirty minutes ; put in half 
a pint of lima beans, and let the whole cook again for fifteen minutes. 
Skim off the fat well, remove the bouquet and serve. 

656. Mutton Stw, Solferino. Proceed as directed for No. 655, adding 
half a pint of carrots and a like quantity of turnips, both cut with a vege- 
table-spoon ; cook these thirty minutes with the stew, and ten minutes 
before serving add half a pint of stewed tomatoes (No. 1027) instead of 
the lima beans. 

657. Mutton Stew Ji la Marseillaise.  The same as for No. 655, but 
instead of the other garnishings, add one pint of stewed tomatoes (No. 
1027), four cloves of crushed garlic, two chopped onions, and twelve 
minced mushrooms. Let cook for thirty minutes, and serve with chopped 
parsley sprinkled over. 

658. Mutton Stew, Poi'tug'aise.  Proceed the same as for No. 655, 
replacing the garnishing with three stuffed tomatoes (No. 1023), and three 
timbales of cooked rice (No. 501), nicely arranged around the dish. 

659. Mutton Stew with Potatoes.  Exactly the same as for No. 655, 
replacing the garnishing with one pint of potatoes cut in quarters, (paring 
the edges a little), also six small onions. Let cook thirty minutes, and 
serve. 

660. Irish Mutton Stew.  Cut in square pieces three pounds of 
mutton; wash well, drain, and put them in a saucepan, covering with fresh 
water. Let them come to a boil ; then remove into another pan. Clean 
the pieces well again, return them to the saucepan and cover them with 
boiling water. Place on the fire, seasoning with two tablespoonfuls of salt, 
a teaspoonful of pepper, and half a teaspoonful of nutmeg. Add two 
carrots, two turnips, all cut up, six small onions, and a bouquet (No. 
254). Let cook for twenty-five minutes, then add half a pint of potatoes 



250 



THE TABLE. 



cut in quarters. Dilute half a cupful of< flour with half a pint of water, 
strain it into the stew, stirring thoroughly, and cook again for twenty-five 
minutes. Remove the bouquet, thoroughly skimming it before serving. 

661. Mutton Kidneys en Brochette au Petit Sal6 Split twelve mutton 
kidneys in two, but do not separate the parts; remove the skin, place them 
in a deep plate, and season with a tablespoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful 
of pepper, adding two tablespoonfulS of sweet oil. Roll them well. Take 
six skewers, put a skewer through the two kidneys in the centre, and 
repeat the same for the others. Broil four minutes on each side. Arrange 
on a hot dish, pour a gill of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 145) over, and cover 
with six slices of broiled bacon (No. 754.) 

662. Mutton Kidneys Sautes, Madeira Sauce.  Pare well twelve mut- 
ton kidneys and cut them into slices. Put into a frying-pan, with one 
ounce of butter, a tablespoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of pepper. Toss 
them well for six minutes. Add half a pint of Madeira wine sauce (No. 
185), squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, add another small piece of fresh 
butter, toss well again without boiling, and serve. 

663. Mutton Kidneys Santas k I'ltalienne.  Proceed as for No. 662, 
adding one gill of cooked fine herbs (No. 143); toss well for one minute, 
being careful not to let it boil. Avoid boiling any kidneys when being 
prepared in this way. All stewed mutton kidneys are prepared the same, 
adding either six minced mushrooms one minute  before serving, or if 
truflSes are preferred, add three medium-sized, minced truffles. 

664. Saddle of Mutton, Eoasted, Plain.  Pare and trim a fine saddle of 
mutton, wefghing about six pounds (if possible). Lift off the upper skin, 
make one slight incision in the middle, also three on each side; tie it firmly 
together with three strings, so that it retains its shape, season it with a 
good pinch of salt, and it will then be ready to roast. Place the saddle in 
a roasting-pan, adding a gill of cold water; put it in a moderate oven, and 
let cook for forty-five minutes. Baste it frequently with its own gravy, 
and serve on a very hot dish. Skim off all the fat, strain the gravy into a 
sauce-bowl, and serve separately. . ) 

N. B.;  Should the saddle be of heavier weight, say twelve to fourteen 
pounds, one hour and a quarter will be necessary to cook it. 

665. Saddle of Mutton, Sauce Colbert.  Proceed exactly the same as 
for No. 664, serving half a pint of Colbert sauce (No. igo) in a bowl. 

666. Saddle of Mutton, Currant Jelly.  Same as directed for No. 664 
serving with half a pint of hot jelly sauce (No. 884), or with a little cur- 
rant jelly, separately. 

667. Saddle of Mutton, Sauce Poivrade.  Proceed the same as for 
No. 664, serving with half a pint of poivrade sauce, separately (No. 194). 

668. Saddle of Mutton, Londonderry Sauce.  The same as for 
No. 664, serving with half a pint of hot Londonderry sauce (No. 880). 

669. Saddle of Mutton il la Sevigll6 Exactly the same as for No. 
664, only serving with six bouchefes h. la Sevign6 (No. 588). 

670. Saddle of Mutton Si la Duchesse.  Proceed as for No. 664, 
serving with six potatoes Duchesse (No. 1006). 



MUTTON LA MB. 



251 



671. Saddle of Mutton witll Potatoes.  Served exactly the same as 
for No. 664, only adding one pint of potatoes chateau (No. 1009). 

672. Lamb Fries & laDiable.  Skin well six medium-sized lamb fries; 
cut each into three slices and put them into a bowl. Season with a table- 
spoonful of satt,^ very little cayenne pepper, the juice of half a lemon, 
one tablespoonful of sweet oil, and a teaspoonful of ground mustard 
diluted in a tablespoonful of Parisian sauce. Mix all well together, roll 
them in flour, and broil five minutes on each side. Arrange them on a 
hot dish garnished with six slices of lemon, and serve with a hot sauce ^ 
la Diable (No. 198), separately. 

Lamb chops can be prepared the same way. Lamb fries, as above. pre- 
pared, should be immediately served as soon as coolsed. 

673. Lamb Fries, Tomato Sance.  Same as for No. 672, only dipping 
the slices in beaten egg instead of mustard, and then in rasped bread-crust. 
Fry them in hot fat for six minutes, and serve on a hot dish on a folded 
napkin, with half a pint of hot tomato sauce (No. 205), separately. 

Lamb fries with Tartare sauce are prepared the same way, only serving 
with half a pint of Tartare sauce (No. 207), in a separate bowl. 

674. Brochette of Lamb h la Dumas.  Take a raw leg of lamb weigh- 
ing about three pounds; remove the bone and pare oft the skin. Then cut 
into six square pieces of equal size. Put them in a vessel with two very 
finely chopped shallots, one teaspoonful of chopped chives, one teaspoon- 
ful of parsley, and a crushed clove of garlic. Add the juice of half a 
lemon, a. tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, and half a tea- 
spoonful of nutmeg. Let them steep for about two hours, stirring at 
times; then take the pieces out, run a skewer through the centre of the 
six pieces, interlarding them with pieces of salt pork; dip them in bread- 
crumbs and broil for four minutes on each side. Serve with half a pint of 
hot Colbert sauce (No. 190), poured on the servjng-dish, and place the 
brochettes over, arranging them nicely. 

675. Ballotin of Lamb with Peaa.  Bone a shoulder of spring lamb 
weighing about two and a half pounds. Let the end bone remain for a 
handle. Season with half a tablespoonful of salt, and the same quantity of 
pepper. Sew it up with a needle, fasten it firmly, and boil two or three 
minutes in the stock-pot. After letting it cool, lard the top with a larding 
needle as for a fricandeau, and place it in a saucepan with a piece of lard- 
skin, a carrot and an onion cut in slices. Brown slightly for six minutes; 
then moisten with a pint of broth (No. 99) and half a pint of Espagnole 
sauce (No. 157); cook in the oven forty-five minutes, take it out, and strain 
the sauce over a pint of hot, boiled, green peas (No. 978). Cook two 
minutes longer. Place the garnishing on a hot dish; remove the strings 
of the ballotin; lay it on the top of the garnishing, and serve. 

676. Ciirry of Lamb, with Asparagus-tops. Have three pounds of 
shoulder of Iamb cut into pieces about two inches square. Wash well in 
fresh water, drain, put into a saucepan, and cover with fresh water. Let 
it come to a. boil, then strain through a colander, and wash again in 
water. Place the pieces in a saucepan, covering them with boiling water; 



252 



THE TABLE. 



season with two tablespoonfuls of salt, one teaspoonful of pepper, six 
small onions, and a bouqiiet (No. 254). Put the lid on, and cook forty- 
minutes. Then strain off the liquor into another saucepan containing 
half a pint of roux blanc (No. 135), stirring well until it boils, and then let 
it stand on the corner of the stove. Break into a separate bowl four egg 
yolks with the juice of half a lemon, beaten well together. Add this to 
the sauce, dropping it in little by little, and stirring continually. Pour 
all over the lamb, and add one pint of cooked asparagus-tops, but be 
careful not to let it boil again. Serve with a border of hotj boiled rice 
all around the dish. 

677. Curry of Lamb &, I'Indienne  Proceed escactly as for No. 676, 
only adding three tablespoonfuls of curry diluted in half a cupful of 
water. Instead of the asparagus-tops, use a border of hot, cooked rice, 
carefully arranged around the dish. Lay the curry of lamb oh top and 
serve. ' 

678. Curry of Lamb k la Creole.  The same as for No. 676, adding, 
ten minutes before serving, one gill of tomatoes cut in pieces, and a green 
pepper cut into small pieces, serving with a border of hot, cooked rice 
around the dish. 

679. Croquettes of Lamb k la Patti.  Prepare six lamb croquettes as 
for No. 276, adding half a pint of Patti garnishing (No. 245) laid on the 
dish, and arranging the croquettes on top. Pour over it a little meat- 
glaze (No. 141). 

680. Croustades of Kidneys, with Mushrooms. Prepare ^ix crous- 
tades (No. 264), and fill them witli kidneys sautfes au Mad^re (No. 662). 

681. Lamb Chops h. la Signora.  Pare six fine lamb chops, apd split 
them through the centre. Fill the insides with a very fine salpicon (No, 
256); season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper. Close 
together, and dip in beaten egg, then in fresh bread-crumbs. Fry them 
for four minutes on each side in two ounces of clarified butter in a sautoire, 
and serve with a gill of hot Montglas sauce (No. 213) after arranging a 
curled paper at the end of each chop. 

682. Lamb Chops ^ la Robinson.  Pare six lamb chops, flatten 
nicely, and season with one pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper. 
Place them in a sautoire with one ounce of butter, and fry for three minutes 
on each side. Serve with a pint of hot Robinson garnishing (No. 253) on 
the dish, and arrange the chops nicely over it, or any other garnishing 
desired. 

683. Lamb Chops, Ulaison d'Or.  Pare neatly six lamb chops, make' 
an incision in each one, and insert therein a slice of truffle. Season 
with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper. Dip the chops in beaten 
egg and then in fresh bread-crumbs. Fry them in a sautoire with two 
ounces of clarified butter for four minutes on each side, and serve with 
six heart-shaped pieces of fried bread, each one covered with some pate- 
de-foie-gras, and a gill of hot Madeira wine sauce (No. 185). Arrange a 
curled paper on the ehd of each chop. 

684. Lamb Chops k la Clichy.  Pare nicely and flatten six Iamb chops; 



MUTTON LAMB. 253 



season with one pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper. Fry slightly in 
a sautoire with one ounce of butter for one minute on each side ; then let 
them cool. Cover the surfaces with chicken forcemeat (No. 226), and 
wrap them in crepinette (a skin found in the stomach of the pig); dip in 
beaten egg, then in fresh bread-crumbs, and cook in a sautoire, with two 
ounces of butter for four miuutes on each side. Arrange a nice paper 
curl at each end of the chops, and serve with half a pint of hot champagne 
sauce (No. 204) on the dish, and the chops over it. 

685. Lamb Chops k la 9bunteuon.  Take six well-pared and flattened 
lamb chops. Season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper; put 
into a. sautoire with one ounce of butter, and fry on one side only for 
one minute. Cover the cooked side with a mellow chicken -croquette 
preparation (No. 276), also a little chicken forcemeat (No. 226) on top. 
Besprinkle with one very finely chopped truffle. Place the chops on a 
well-buttered baking-pan, and put them in a slow oven to cook for four 
minutes. Put a curled paper on the end of each chop, and serve with 
half a pint of hot, clear veloutfe (No. 152) on the dish, and the chops laid 
over it. 

686. Lamb Chops ^ la Yilleroi.  Pare neatly six chops, flatten them 
well, and season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper. Make 
an incision in each chop, and garnish the inside with a slice of truffle, 
previously dipped in demi-glace (No. 185); then dip the chops in beaten 
egg, roll them in fresh bread-crumbs, and put into a sautoire with two 
ounces of butter, and fry four minutes on each side. Pour half a pint of 
hot Perigueux sauce (No. 191) on the dish, arrange the chops over, with 
curled paper on the ends, and serve. 

687. Lamb Chops k la Mass^na.  Trim neatly, flatten, and season 
with half a pinch each of salt and pepper, six lamb chops. Put them into 
a sautoire with one ounce of butter, and fry on one side only for one 
minute. Let them cool, and then fill the cooked centres with a little pat6- 
de-foie-gras. Take six pieces of fried bread the size of the chop, cut out 
the middles with a bread-cutter, fill in the space with pat6-de-foie-gras, and 
lay it on the cooked side of the chops. Garnish all around with chicken 
forcemeat 4 la creme (No. 225), forced through a paper cornet. Place 
them on a buttered baking-sheet, and put them into a slow oven. Cook 
for seven minutes. Prepare a pint of hot Madeira sauce (No. 185), pour 
it on a hot dish, arrange the chops nicely on top, with curled papers on 
the ends, and serve. 

688. Minced Lamb k I'Anglaise.  Chop two onions fine, and fry in a 
saucepan with two ounces of butter for five minutes. Add two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, stirring well for two minutes. Moisten with a pint of 
broth (No. 99), and two tablespoonfuls of Parisian sauce, a, bouquet (No. 
254), and season with a tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, and 
ialf a teaspoonful of nutmeg. Stir until it comes to a boil. Then cut 
two pounds of cooked lamb in small pieces, either from the shoulder or 
leg, mince finely, and add to the sauce. Cook twenty-five minutes, and 
serve with chopped parsley sprinkled over. 



254 



THE TABLE. 



689i Epigrammes of Lamb, Mac^doine. Take two breasts of lamb, 
tie them and put them on to boil in the soup-stock for forty-five minutes. 
Drain them well, then extract all the bones, and press down with a heavy 
weight on top. When thoroughly cold, cut each breast into three heart- 
shaped pieces, dip them in oil or fat, seasoning with a tablespoonful of 
salt and a teaspoonful of pepper. Roll in fresh bread-crumbs, and broil 
on a Slow fire for four minutes on each side. Take six broiled, breaded . 
lamb chops, prepared and co6ked exactly the same, and serve with half a 
pint of hot Macfedoirie (No. 1032) or any dther garnishing that may be 
required, arranging the breasts and chops over the garnishing. 

690. Epigrammes of Lamb k la CMcorte.  Proceed exactly the same 
as for No. 689, only adding, half a pint of hot chicory witli a little gravy 
(No. 934), instead of the other garnishing, and serve the same. 

691. Epigrammes of Lamb k la Louisiann^ise.  The same as for No. 
689, only serving with one pint of fried sweet potatoes (No. 993) around 
the dish, and a gill of hot Madeira wine sauce (No. 185). 

692. Epigrammes of Lamb k la Sonbise.  The same as for No. 689, 
serving with half a pint of hot Soubise (No. 250) and basting with a little 
meat-glaze (No. 141). 

693. Slioulder of Lamb k I'Africaine. Take a shoulder of lamb of 
about three pounds, season with one pinch of salt and one pinch of pep- 
per, and tie it up well. Place in a saucepan with one sliced onion, and 
one sliced carrot, and brown for six minutes. Moisten with one pint of 
broth (No. 99), and a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151). Let cook for 
forty-five minutes. Skim all the fat from the gravy, and remove the 
shoulder to a hot dish and untie it. Garnish the dish with three stuffed 
egg-plants (No. 909), and half a pint of cooked gumbo (No. 1030). Strain 
the gravy over the shoulder, and serve. 

694. Shoulder of Lamb, Pnr^e Normande.  Proceed exactly the same 
as for No. 693, only substituting one pint of hot Normande (No. 175) for 
the other garnishing. 

695. Shoulder of Lamb, with Staffed Tomatoes. The same as for 
No. 693, placing six stuffed tomatoes (No. 1023) around the dish before 
serving. 

696. Shoulder of Lamb, Jardiniere.  Proceed as directed in No. 693, 
only serving with one pint of hot Jardinifere (No. 1033). 

697. Shoulder of Lamb, Stuffed k la Mac^doine. Prepare a shoulder 
the same as for No. 693, but before tying it, fill the interior with American 
forcemeat (No. 229); let cook the same, and serve with one pint of Hot 
Macfedoine (No. 1032). 

698. Shoulder of Lamb k la Bouennaise.  Braise a shoulder of lamb 
as for No. 693, cut three medium-sized turnips the shape of a large clove 
of garlic, and put them in a sautoire, with an ounce of butter, and a tea- 
spoonful of powdered sugar on top. Place it in the oven, and leave it in 
until they become thoroughly brown, tossing the pan frequently to pre- 
vent burning. Pour the gravy from the meat over the turnips, dish up 
the shoulder, arrange the turnips around and serve. 



MUTTON LA MB. 255 



699. Shoulder of Lamb il la Flaniande. The same as for No. 693, 
serving for garnishing half a pint of cooked carrots, half a pint of cooked 
turnips, and half a pint of cooked red cabbage, nicely arranged in clusters 
around the dish. 

700. Hashed Lamb iii la Polonaise.  Fry two chopped onions . in a 
saucepan with an ounce of butter; add half a pound of cooked. Hashed 
lamb to one pint of cooked, hashed potatoes (No. 1002). Season with a 
good tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, and half a teaspoonful 
of nutmeg. Moisten with half a pint of broth, and cook for ten minutes. 
Place the hash on a hot dish, and arrange six poached eggs (No. 404) on 
top. Serve with chopped parsley sprinkled over. 

701. Haricot or Ragont of Lamb & la Providence.  Take" a fine breast 
or a shoulder of lamb weighing about three pounds, cut it into equal 
square pieces, and fry them in a saucepan with an ounce of butter or fat. 
Add six small, sound, peeled onions, and when browned, after about ten 
minutes, dredge in three tablespoonfuls of flour, stirring well for two 
minutes. Moisten with three pints of water or white broth ; stir well, 
adding two pinches of salt, one pinch of pepper, two crushed cloves of 
sound garlic, and a bouquet (No. 254). Let cook for forty-five minutes. 
Two minutes after it begins to boil, thoroughly skim off the scum on the 
surface. Remove the bouquet and pour the ragout on a hot dish. Arrange 
half a pint of flageolets, plunged for half a minute into boiling water and 
well drained, or cooked lima beans, on one side of the dish, and the same 
quantity of cooked carrots, cut in quarters, on the other, and then serve. 

702. Breast of Lamb, Jardiniere.  Boil three medium-sized breasts 
of lamb for- fifty minutes in the stock-pot, then the bones will be detached. 
Take them out, put the meat under a heavy weight, and let it thoroughly 
cool; then pare neatly. Cut each breast in two, and place on a dish. 
Season them with a good tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pep- 
per, and immerse them in two tablespoonfuls of oil. Roll them in fresh 
bread-crumbs, and broil them for four minutes on each side. Serve them 
with one pint of hot Jardinifere garnishing (No. 1033) on the dish, and the 
breasts nicely arranged over it. 

703. Stewed Lamb and Oyster-plant. As directed for ragout of 
lamb (No. 701); substituting for garnishing one bunch of thoroughly 
scraped and well- washed oyster-plant, cut into medium-sized pieces, and 
cooked with the stew. 

704. Stewed Lamb k la Francaise. The same as for No. 701 ; adding 
half a pint of carrots, half a pint of turnips, cooked with the lamb, and 
half an hour before serving putting in a pint of pared, small, whole, raw 
potatoes. 

705. Stewed Lamb and Lima Beans. Proceed as directed for No. 
701, replacing the garnishing by one pint of cooked lima beans, added five 
minutes before serving. 

706. Stewed Lamb, with Peas. The same as for No. 701, only sub. 
stituting for the garnishing one pint of green peas half an hour before 
the stew is ready or, if canned peas, five minutes before serving. 



256 THE TABJLE. 



707. Stewed Lamb and Flageolets. Proceed as directed for No. 701, 
only using instead of the garnishing a pint of well-soaked and drained 
flageolets, five minutes before serving. 

708. Stewed Lamb k la Parisienne. The same as for No. 701, using 
a garnishing of one pint of raw Parisian potatoes (No. 986) half an hour 
before serving. 

709. Stewed Lamb and String Beans. The same as for, No. 701, 
only substituting for garnishing, one pint of pared and cleaned string- 
beans half an hour before serving. 

710. Stewed Lamb Louisiannaise.  Proceed exactly as for No. 701, 
substituting for garnishing one pint of fried sweet potatoes, when serv- 
ing, all around the dish. 

711. Stewed Lamb k la Creole.  The same as for No. 701, adding for 
garnishing two cut-up tomatoes, one cut-up green pepper, and one chopped 
onion. Serve with a bouquet of cooked rice for a. garnishing around 
the dish. 

712. Lamb's Kidneys, Colbert Sance.- Split open twelve kidneys, 
skin them well, and place 011 a dish with a tablespoonful of sweet 
oil. Season with a tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, and 
half a teaspoonful of nutmeg. Take six silver skewers (it none on hand, 
use wooden ones), run each skewer through Ihe centre of two kidneys 
(which should never become detached), roll them in fresh bread-crumbs, 
and put them to broil on a moderate fire for four minutes on each side. 
Place them on a very hot dish on Which has been previously poured a 
pint of hot Colbert sauce (No. 190), and send to the table very hot. 

713. Lamb^s Kidneys, with Bacon.  Proceed as for No. 712, but do 
not roll them in bread-crumbs, and serve them with six slices of broiled 
bacon (No. 754) and a gill of maitre d'hStel butter (No. 145); 

714. Stewed Kidneys with Cepes.^-Pare, trim, and skin well twelve 
kidneys. Cut them into slices, and cook for five minutes in a frying-pan 
with an ounce of clarified butter, a tablespoonful of salt, and a teaspoon- 
ful of pepper. Brown well ; then add half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 
151), also four cSpes cut into pieces. Warm without boiling, add the 
juice of half a lemon, an4 a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and serve. 

All stewed kidneys are prepared the same way, with any other garnish- 
ing required. 

715. Lamb's Kidneys &. la Diable.  Skin and pare well twelve kidneys, 
split them in two without separating the parts, and run the skewers 
through as for No. 712. Broil them slightly for one minute on each side. 
Mix together in a dish one teaspoonful of English mustard with two 
tablespoonfuls of Parisian sauce, the third of a. teaspoonful of cayenne 
pepper, a teaspoonful of salt, and a like quantity of mignonette pepper. 
Roll the kidneys well in this, then in bread-crumbs, and finish by broiling 
them once more for three minutes on each side. Serve with a gill of 
maltre d'h6tel butter (No. 145) poured over the kidneys. 

716. Lamb Steak with Pur6e of Peas.  Cut and saw off six small 
steaks from a tender Teg of lamb ; pare and trim them nicely, flatten, and 



PORK. 



257 



season with a good tablespoonful of salt sprinkled over, and a teaspoonful 
of pepper. Put a tablespoonful of sweet oil on a dish, roll the steaks 
well in it, then broil them for five minutes on each side. Place on a hot 
serving-dish half a pint of hot purfee of peas (No. 49) ; arrange the steaks 
over, and serve. 

The steaks can be served with any other garnishing required. 

717. Lamb Steak, Sauce Piqnamte. The same as for No. 716, serv- 
ing for garnishing half a pint of hot piquante sauce (No. 203). 

718. Lamb Steak il rAm^ricaine.  Proceed as for No. 716,'and serve 
the lamb steaks with six small pieces of fried hominy (No. 1035), also one 
gill of hot Madeira sauce (No. 185) on the dish, and the steaks arranged 
over, with six slices of broiled bacon over them. 

A pinch of salt represents 205 grains, or a tablespoonful. 

Half a pinch of pepper represents 38 grains, or a teaspoonful. 

A third of a pinch of nutmeg represents 13 grains, or half a teaspoonful. 



PORK. 



719. Black Sausage, Mashed Fotatnes.  Take six black sausages (or 
blood pudding) ; make four light incisions on each side of them with a 
knife, then broil them for five minutes on each side. Neatly arrange a 
pint of mashed potatoes (No. 998) on a hot dish ; nicely dress the sausages 
over, and serve. They also may be baked in a pan in the hot oven for 
ten minutes. 

720. Snckling Pig, Apple Sance.  Thoroughly clean the interior of a 
small, tender, suckling pig (reserving the liver); drain it well. Season the 
interior with two pinches of salt, one good pinch of pepper, and the third 
of a pinch of grated nutmeg. Chop up the liver very fine, and fry it in a 
saucepan, with half an ounce of butter, for five minutes. Stuff it with Amer- 
ican forcemeat (No. 229), then sew up the aperture with a kitchen-needle. 
Have a roasting-pan ready, sprinkle into it half a cupful of cold water, 
then lay in the pig, so that it rests on its four legs. Completely cover all 
around with a buttered paper, then put it into a moderate oven, and let 
cook for two hours ; baste it frequently, while cooking, with its own gravy. 
Remove it to a hot dish, untie, skim the fat from the gravy, and strain the 
lean part of it over the pig. Serve with a pint of hot apple sauce (No. 
168) in a separate bowl. 

721. Boiled Ham, plain.  Select a nice, small, lean ham of about seven 
pounds, and steep it in cold water during a whole night ; take it out, 
lay it on aboard or table, dry it thoroughly in a cloth, then put it in 
a saucepan and cover it with cold water. Let it boil for two hours, then 
remove it from its stock, lift off the upper skin, trim it neatly, and 

17 



258 THE TABLE. 



ornament artistically the large end bone with a pretty paper ruffle, then 
serve it with any kind of sauce required for garnishing. 

722. Cold BoUed Ham, for family use.  Proceed the same as for No. 
721, but let the ham be thoroughly cooled off before serving. 

723. Boast Ham, Champagne Sauce.  Boil a ham exactly as directed 
for No. 721, making a few lengthwise incisions on the surface. Sprinkle 
the top with a little powdered sugar; arrange it in a roasting-pan, then 
place it in a slow oven for fifteen minutes. Serve with half a pint of 
champagne sauce ^No. 204). , 

724. Boast Ham, with Com % la Cr6me.  The same as for No. 723, 
serving with it one pint of hot corn ^ la crSme (No. 963). 

725. Boast Ham, with Spinach.  Proceed as for No. 723, only serving 
with one pint of cooked hot spinach au jus (No. 943). 

726. Pig's Cheek, with Spinach.  Take twolean, smoked pig's cheeks; 
let them soak in cold water over night, then drain them well, and put 
them in a saucepan, covering them with cold water. Let cook for one 
hour and three-quarters; then lay them on a dish, drain well again, and 
lift off the rind and skin which adheres to the tongue, then remove the 
bones, and place the cheeks on a hot serving-dish. Garnish with one pint 
of hot spinach au jus (No. 943); arrange the cheeks nicely on top, and 
serve. 

727. Pig's Feet k la St. Hubert.  Split three good-sized, boiled pig's 
feet in two', place them on a deep dish, season with a pinch of salt, half a 
pinch of pepper, and one tablespoonful of oil. Roll them well together, 
and lay them in fresh bread-crumbs. Put them to broil for four minutes 
on each side, and then serve with half a pint of hot piquante sauce (No. 
203), to which has been added ateaspoonful of diluted mustard. Pour the 
sauce on the dish, and arrange the feet nicely upon it. 

728. Pig's Feet, Sauce Bobert. Exactly the same as for No. 727, 
serving with half a pint of hot Robert sauce (No. 192). 

729. Pig's Feet, Sauce Piquante.  The same as for No. 727, serving 
with half a pint of hot piquante sauce (No. 203), omitting the mustard. 

730. Pig's Feet, New York Style.  The same as for No. 727, serving 
them on six pieces of toast, with a gill of maitre d'h6tel butter (No. 145) 
over the feet. 

Boston Style.  Dip them in frying batter, then fry in a pan with two 
ounces of butter on a moderate fire for ten minutes. Dress them on a hot 
dish with a folded napkin, and serve with any sauce desired separately. 

731. Pig's Feet ^ la Poulette.  Put three boiled pig's feet, cut in two, 
into a saucepan with half an ounce of butter, let simmer for five minutes, 
add a pint of poulette sauce (No. 598); heat without boiling for five min- 
utes, then serve with a little chopped parsley sprinkled over. 

732. Stuffed Pig's Feet k la P^rlgnenx.  To one and a half pounds 
of boned turkey forcemeat (No. 813) add two minced truffles and half a 
glassful of Madeira wine ; mix well together in a bowl. Spread six pieces 
of crSpinette a skin found in the stomach of the pig), the size of the hand, 
on the table. Lay on each one a piece of forcemeat the size of an egg; spread 



PORK. 



259 



it well, and lay one-half of a boned pig's foot on top (No. 734). Cover with 
another light layer of forcemeat, and finish each with three thin slices of 
trufiBes. Cover the cr6pinettes so that they get the form of envelopes ; 
fold them up, and dip one after the other in beaten egg, then in fresh 
bread-crumbs, and cook in a sautoire with two ounces of clarified butter. 
Place a heavy weight on top of the feet, let cook on a slow fire for twelve 
minutes on each side, and serve with half a pint of hot Pferigueux sauce 
(No. igi) on the dish, and the pig's feet on top. 

783. Stuffed PJg's Feet, Madeira Sance. Exactly the same as for 
the above, only serving with half a pint of hot Madeira sauce (No. 185) in 
place of the other. 

734. Boned Hg's Feet.  Take three boiled feet, cut them in two, put 
them into boiling water for four minutes, then take them out. Drain well, 
bone them, then put the flesh into -a. dry, clean cloth, and wipe them 
thoroughly. 

735. Sausages, with White Wine.  Brown a very finely chopped 
onion in a sautoire with one ounce of butter. Moisten with half a glass- 
ful of white wine, and add two country sausages; prick them slightly with 
a fork, then cover the pan, and let cook for five minutes. ^Put in half a 
pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), cook again for five minutes, and serve 
with a little chopped parsley sprinkled over. 

736. Sausages k I'Anglaise.  Place twelve country sausages on a 
baking-tin ; prick them a little, and separate them by twelve slices of 
bread cut the same height as the sausages. Bake in the oven for twelve 
minutes, baste them occasionally with their own juice, and serve with 
half a pint of hot Madeira sauce (No. 185) in a separate bowl. 

737. Sausages k I'ltalienne.  The same as for No. 735, adding six 
minced mushrooms to the sauce five minutes before serving. 

738. Sausages k la Bourgnignonne.  Take twelve country sausages, 
prick them with a fork, and place them in a baking-dish. Put them in 
the oven, and let cook for ten minutes ; garnish a hot dish with a pint of 
hot purfee of red beans (No. 951); and arrange the sausages on top, then 
serve. 

739. Sausages, with Cabbage.  Procure a medium-sized white cab- 
bage ; remove all the green leaves, and cut it into four square parts, sup- 
pressing the centre stalks. Wash thoroughly in cold water, then drain 
well in a cloth ; when finished cut them into small pieces, and put them 
into boiling, salted water for five minutes. Remove into cold water to let 
it cool off moderately; take it out, drain in a colander, and put the cabbage 
into a saucepan with a gill of fat from the soup-stock, or an ounce of 
butter. Season with a good pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, also 
a whole medium-sized onion, and a carrot cut into four pieces. Put on 
the lid of the saucepan, remove to a moderate fire, and let cook for thirty 
minutes. Take twelve country sausages, prick them with a fork, add 
them to the cabbage, and let all cook together for twelve minutes. Dress 
the cabbage on a hot dish, and decorate with the sausages and carrots on 
top. Serve very hot. 



26o I THE TABLE. 



740. Sausages an Gastronome.  Prick twelve nice, lean sausages 
with a fork ; put them in a tin baking-dish, and cook them for six minutes 
in the oven. Add two raw eggs to a pint and a half of mashed potatoes, 
with three tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan or Swiss cheese, mix well 
together, and lay it on a baking-dish. Place the sausages on top, put it 
in the oven, and let cook for six minutes. When finished take them out, 
and serve on a dish witl^ half a gill of demi-glace (No. 185) thrown over. 

741. Pork Tenderloin,  Procure three goo^-sized pork tenderloins, 
pare them neatly, remove the sinews, and cut each fillet lengthwise in two 
without detaching ; place in a sautoire with a tablespoonful of butter. 
Season them one hour before cooking with two pinches of salt and one 
pinch of pepper, and let them cook on the stove for six minutes on each 
side. Arrange them on a hot serving-dish, and skim the fat from the sur- 
face of the gravy. Add to the lean part half a cupful of broth (No. 99), 
letting it come to a boil, and mixing well with a spoon. Strain the gravy 
over the fillets, and serve. Any sauce or garnishing desired may be add- 
ed to the tenderloins. 

742. Pork AndouUIettes.  Procure one and a half pounds of andouil- 
lettes; cut them into six pieces, and make four slight incisions on each side. 
Place them in a tin baking-dish, and put them in the oven to cook for 
eight minutes. Remove them to a hot serving-dish, previously plac- 
ing thereon a pint of mashed potatoes, or a pint of hot purge of peas, and 
place the andouillettes , nicely arranged, on top. 

743. Pork Chops, Plain.  Take six thick pork chops, pare and flatten 
them nicely, then season with a pinch of salt and a pinch of pepper one 
hour before using them. Put them in a sautoire with one ounce of butter, 
and let cook on the stove for six minutes on each side. Arrange the chops 
on a hot dish, skim off the fat from the gravy, and add half a cupful of 
broth to the lean part. Let come to a boil, strain over the chops, and 
serve. 

744. Pork Chops, Broiled.  These are to be prepared exactly' the same 
as for No. 743, only to the seasoning add one tablespoonful of sweet oil, 
and roll in the chops well. Put them to broil for six minutes on each 
side, then arrange them on a hot dish, and serve with a gill of hot maltre 
d'h6tel butter (No. 145), well spread over the chops. 

745. Pork Chops, Piquante Sance.  Proceed exactly as for No. 743, 
serving with half a pint of hot piquante sauce over the chops (No. 203)., 

746. Pork Chops, Sauce Robert.  Same as for No. 743, sending them 
to the table with half a pint of hot Robert sauce (No. 192) poured over 
the chops. 

747. Pork Chops & la Diable. The same as for No. 743, but serving 
with half a pint of sauce 4 la Diable (No. 198) over the chops. 

748. Pork Chops, Apple Sauce.  Proceed as for No. 743, serving with 
one pint of hot apple sauce (No. 168) in a separate bowl. 

749. Pork Chops k la Pur^e de Pois. The same as for No. 743, pour- 
ing half a pint of hot purte of peas on the dish, and placing the chops 
over. 



PORK. 261 

750. Pork Chops with Puree of Potatoes.  Exactly the same as for 
No. 743, serving with a pint of purfee of hot potatoes (No. 998) on the 
dish, and the chops nicely arranged over. 

751. Roasted Fresh Pork.  Take three pounds of fresh loin of pork; 
season two hours before needed with two good pinches of salt and one 
good pinch of pepper, well distributed. Put it into a roasting-pan with 
half a cupful of water, place it in the oven, and let roast for fully one and " 
a. half hours, being careful to baste it frequently with its own gravy. 
Remove it to a hot dish, skim the fat from the gravy, strain the lean 
part over the roast, and serve. 

762. Pork and Beans.  Take a pint of white dry beans, soak them in 
fresh water for six hours, then drain through a colander. Place them in 
a saucepan, or preferably an earthen dish ; season with one small pinch of 
salt, half a pinch of pepper, one tablespoonful of either syrup or brown 
sugar, and one medium-sized carrot cut in two. Take a pound and a half 
of freshened salt pork (previously well- washed in fresh water), make four 
incisions on each side, and place it in the vessel with the beans ; cover 
with the lid, and let cook all together, either on the stove or in the oven, for 
two hours and a half. If it should get too dry, moisten with a little 
broth. It will now be ready to serve. Place the garnishing on a hot 
dish, and arrange the pork on top ; the whole can be returned again to the 
oven with a little powdered sugar sprinkled over the top, leaving it 
in five minutes to give it a golden color; then serve. 

753. How to Prepare Ham for Broiling' and Frying.  Procure a fine, 
sound, smoked ham, weighing about twelve to thirteen pounds, select- 
ing it as lean as possible. With < sharp knife, begin cutting it care- 
fully at the end of the shank bone, between the bone and the string used 
for hanging purposes, coming down on to the knuckle ; follow the edge 
of the bone, until the small edge-bone is fully reached, then make a 
straight cross-cut from the bone, so as to separate it entirely. When this 
is accomplished, put the bone part aside for soup, garnishing, scrambled 
eggs, sauces, or any other needful purposes. Keep the ham hung up in 
a dry place in a moderate temperature. 

For broiling and frying.  Cut from the boneless part the necessary 
number of slices desired to be used each time, as thin as possible, always 
beginning from the side of the edge-bone. Pare off the skin neatly from 
the slices, and arrange them on the broiler, then broil them for two min- 
utes on each side; take from off the fire, dress them on a hot dish, and 
send to the table. 

By preparing the ham as described in the above, it will always be 
crisp and enjoyable. When frying, four minutes will be sufficient in very 
hot fat. 

754. How to Prepare English Breakfast Bacon. Procure a fine, fresh 
English breakfast bacon, and with a keen knife cut the under bones off; 
pare both edges neatly, also the end (the opposite side to the string which 
hangs it up). With the use of the same sharp knife, cut the necessary 
number of slices desired for immediate use, and no more. Thin slices are 



262 THE TABLE. 



always preferable, so that the bacon, whether broiled or fried, will be 
crispy and tasty. When cutting off the slices be careful to avoid detach- 
ing them from the skin, also cut them crossijrise, but never lengthwise. 
Arrange the slices on the broiler, and broil on a moderate fire for two 
minutes on each side ; dress the crispy slices on a hot dish, and serve 
immediately. 

Four minutes will suffice for frying. See that the bacon is kept hang- 
ing by the string in a dry, cool place, but never put it on the ice. 

A pinch of salt represents 205 grains, or a tablespoonful. 

Half a pinch of pepper represents 38 grains, or a teaspoonful. 

A third ofa pinch of nutmeg represents ijgrains, or half a teaspoonful. 



POULTRY. 



755. Chicken Boasted, Plain.  Singe, draw, wipe nicely, and truss a 
fine large chicken weighing three pounds. Cover it with a thin slice of 
salt fat pork, and place it in a roasting-pan with two tablespoonfuls of 
broth. Spread a very little butter over the breast, sprinkle on half a 
pinch of salt, and put it in the oven to cook for fifty minutes. Baste it 
frequently, and arrange it on a hot dish, untie, and decorate with a little 
watercress. Strain the gravy into a sauce-bowl, and send it to the table. 

756. Chicken Broiled mth Bacon.  Procure two very fine, tender, 
spring chickens, singe, draw, wipe neatly, and cut the heads off, then split 
them without separating. Place them on a dish, season with one pinch of 
salt, half a pinch of pepper, and one tablespoonful of sweet oil; turn them 
well in the seasoning. Put them to broil for nine minutes on each side.. 
Prepare six small toasts on a hot dish, arrange the two broiled chickens 
over, spread half a gill of m^tre d'h6tel butter on top (No. 145), and 
decorate with six thin slices of broiled bacon (No. 754); then serve. 

757. Cllicken Pot-pie.  Take one fine Philadelphia chicken, from three 
and a half to four pounds, singe, draw, wipe well, and'' cut it into twelve 
even pieces. Put these in a saucepan, and cover them with cold water; 
leave them in for thirty minutes, then wash well, drain, and return them to 
the saucepan. Cover again with fresh water, season with two pinches of 
salt, one pinch of pepper, and a third of a pinch of nutmeg; add a bouquet 
(No. 254), six small onions, and four ounces of salt pork cut into square 
pieces. Cook for three-quarters of an hour, taking care to skim well, then 
add one pint of raw potatoes, Parisiennes (No. 986), and three tablespoon- 
fuls of flour diluted with a cupful of cold water. Stir until it boils, then 
let cook for ten minutes. Remove the bouquet and transfer the whole 
to a deep earthen baking-dish; moisten the edges slightly with water, 
and cover the top with a good pie-crust (No. 1078). Egg the surface; 



POULTRY. 



263 



make a few transverse lines on the paste with a fork, and cut a hole in 
the centre. Bake it in a brisk oven for fifteen minutes, then send to the 
table. 

758. Chicken Croquettes "k la Heine. Make a croquette preparation 
as for No. 276, with chicken and mushrooms; roll it into six cork-shaped 
croquettes, dip each one separately in beaten egg, then in fresh or rasped 
bread-crumbs, fry them in very hot fat for four minutes, then drain them 
thoroughly, and place them on a hot dish over a folded napkin. Serve 
with half a pint of hot sauce 4 la Reine (No. 623) separately. 

759. Chicken Croqnettes it, la P^rignenx. The same as for No. 
758, serving with half a pint of hot P6rigueux sauce (No. 191) separately. 

760. Chicken Croqnettes & I'Ecarlate. Exactly the same as for No. 
758, serving with half a pint of hot sauce Ecarlate (No. 247) separately. 

761. Chicken Croqnettes ^ la P^rigourdin. Prepare some forcemeat 
as for croquettes (No. 276), composed of chicken, mushrooms, two truffles 
cut into small square pieces, and bits of cooked smoked tongue, about 
one ounce. Fry them for four minutes, then serve the six crSquettes 
with half a pint of hot Madeira sauce (No. 185). Add to it one chopped 
truffle and six chopped mushrooms; let cook five minutes, and serve in a 
separate bowl. 

762. Croostade of Chicken ^ la Dreux, Make six croustades (No. 
264), each one four inches and a half long by three inches in diameter. 
Take three-quarters of a pound of white, boned, cooked chicken meat, 
cut in half-inch pieces; add to them half a pint of Duxelle sauce (No. 
189), half a glassful of Madeira wine, and let cook together for four 
minutes. Fill the six croustades with this, arrange them nicely on a. hot 
dish over a folded napkin, and serve. 

763. Cronstade of Chicken Livers, au Mad6re. Prepare six crou- 
stades as for No. 762, fill them with chicken livers stewed in Madeira wine 
sauce (No. 767). 

764. Cromesqnis of Chicken h. la Richelieu. Make six cromesquis 
as for No. 268, and serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin, decorating 
with <t little parsley-greens, and serving a pint of hot Richelieu sauce 
(No. 574) separately. 

765. Cromesqnis of Chicken \ la Eeine. Exactly the same as for No. 
764, serving with half a pint of hot sauce k la Reine No. 623) separately, 
and garnishing the dish with parsley-greens. 

766. Chicken Legs k la Diable. Detach the legs from three medium- 
sized chickens; singe them slightly with a little alcohol lighted on a plate, 
then put them into the soup-pot and let boil for ten minutes. Remove 
them to a dish, cool them off thoroughly, then season with a good pinch 
of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and a. very little cayenne pepper; add also 
two tablespoonfuls of Parisian sauce and half a teaspoonful of ground 
English mustard. Now roll them well together, and pass one after another 
into fresh bread-crumbs; put them to broil on a. moderate fire for four 
minutes on each side, then arrange them on a hot serving-dish. Pour 
over one gill of hot sauce & la Diable (No. 198), sprinkle a little chopped 



264 THE TABLE. 



parsley on top, and serve very hot. The legs can be served with any 
sauce or garnishing required. 

Turkeys' legs are prepared exactly the same way, only they should be 
broiled six minutes on each side instead of four, and served with any 
desired sauce or garnishing. 

767. CMcken Livers Stewed in Kadeira Wine. Cut away the gall 
from a pint of chicken livers, dry them well with a cloth, then fry them 
in a sautoire with one ounce of butter, on a brisk fire, for five minutes. 
Season with a pinch of salt, and half a pinch of pepper, add half a glass of 
Madeira wine, reduce for one minute, then moisten slightly with about 
half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151). Cook algain for three minutes, 
then add half an ounce of good butter, and the juice 5f half a lemon, toss- 
ing well without letting it boil; pour the whole on a hot serving-dish, and 
serve with six heart-shaped cf6utons (No. 133). 

768. Chicken Lirers with Mushrooms. Proceed the same as for No. 
767, only adding six minced mushrooms three minutes before serving. 

769. Chicken Livers en Brochette with Bacon.  Procure eighteen 
fresh chicken livers; cut away the gall, dry them well with a clean cloth, 
season with half a pinch each of salt and pepper, and cut each liver in two. 
Now prepare six- slices of lean bacon (No. 754), broil them for one minute, 
then cut each slice into six pieces. Take six silver skewers, run a skewer 
through the centre of the liver, the same with a piece of bacon, and con- 
tinue the same process until the six skewers are each one filled with a 
piece of liver and a piece of bacon. Roll them on a dish with one table- 
spoonful of good oil, dip them in fresh bread-crumbs, and put them on a 
moderate fire to broil for five minutes on each side. Arrange them on a 
hot dish, pour half a gill of maitre d'h6tel butter (No. 145) over, and serve 
with a little watercress around the dish. 

770. Chicken Livers Santas kl'Italienne.  Proceed exactly as for No. 

767, only adding half a gill of cooked fine herbs (No. 143) five minutes 
before serving. 

771. Chicken Sante Si la Marengo. Singe, draw, and cut into six 
pieces two small, tender chickens, each weighing a pound and a quarter. 
Lay them in an oiled sautoire, and brown slightly on both sides for 'five 
minutes, seasoning with a good pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper; 
when a golden color, moisten with half a pint of Espagnole (No. 151), and 
half a cupful of mushroom liquor. Add twelve mushroom-buttons, and 
two truffles cut in thin slices, also half a glassful of Madeira wine. Let 
cook for twenty minutes, then serve with six fried eggs, as in No. 413, 
and six heart-shaped crdutons (No. 133). Adjust paper ruffles on the ends 
of the wings and legs of the chickens, and dress them nicely on the dish, 
decorating the borders with the fried eggs "and sippets of bread, then 
serve. 

772. Chicken Sant^ k I'Hongroise. Singe, draw, and cut into 
twelve pieces, two chickfens of a pound and a quarter each; put them in a 
sautoire with an ounce of clarified butter, adding one finely chopped onion, 
half a pinch of salt, and half a pinch of pepper. Let cook slowly, without 



POULTRY. 



265 



browning, for five minutes on each side, then moisten with half a pint of 
bfediamel (No. 154), and half a cupful of cream. Let cook again for 
twenty minutes, skim the fat off, and serve with six pieces of fried bread 
croutons (No. 133) around the dish. 

773. Chicken Sant<5 il la Parmentier. Singe, draw, and cut two 
chickens of a pound and a quarter each into twelve pieces; put them in a 
sautoire with one ounce of butter, season with a pinch of salt and half a 
pinch of pepper, and let cook on the stove for five minutes on each side, 
turning the pieces over with a fork. Moisten with half a pint of Espagn- 
ole sauce (No. 151), half a cupful of mushroom liquor, and add the juice 
of half a lemon. Let cook again for twenty minutes, then dress on a 
hot serving-dish, and decorate it with half a pint of potatoes ch3,teau (No. 
loog) in clusters. 

774. Chicken Sant^ with Tarragon.  Have two nice, tender young 
chickens of a pound and a quarter each; singe, draw, and cut each one 
into six pieces, and when well dried put them in a sautoire with one ounce 
of butter; season with a pinch of salt, and half a pinch of pepper, and let 
cook on a brisk stove for five minutes on each side. Moisten with half a 
pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), half a cupful of mushroom liquor, and 
half a glassful of sherry wine, and add a quarter of a bunch of well- 
washed, green tarragon-leaves. Let cook for twenty minutes, then dress 
nicely on a hot serving-dish, and decorate with six heart-shaped croii- 
tons (No. 133). 

775. Chicken Sante h, la Chasseur.  Prepare two chickens exactly as 

for the above (No. 774), moistening with half a pint of Espagnole sauce 
(No. 151), and half a cupful of mushroom liquor; add six finely minced 
mushrooms, half a glassful of sherry or Madeira wine, the zest of half a 
sound lemon, and one chopped shallot. Let cook for twenty minutes, and 
serve with six pieces of fried bread, cut heart-shaped, croutons (No. 133). 

776. Cliicken Saut^ ^ la Bordelaise.  Singe, draw, and cut up two 
chickens, each weighing a pound and a quarter, into twelve pieces; put 
them in a sautoire with two tablespoonfuls of oil and one chopped shallot. 
Let brown well for five minutes, then moisten with half a glassful of 
white wine, adding three artichoke-bottoms, each one cut into four pieces. 
Season with a pinch of salt, and half a pinch of pepper, then put the lid on 
and let simmer slowly for fifteen minutes; when ready to serve, add a 
little meat-glaze, a teaspoonful (No. 141), the juice of half a lemon, and a 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Dish up the pieces, crown-shaped, with 
paper rufliles nicely arranged, and garnish with the artichoke-bottoms in 
clusters, and twelve cooked potatoes chateau (No. loog). 

777. Chicken Sant^kla R^gence.  Singe, draw, and dry well two 
tender chickens of a pound and a quarter each; cut them into twelve 
pieces, and put them in a sautoire with one ounce of butter. Season with 
a good pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper.add half a glassful of Madeira 
wine, reduce for one minute, then put the lid on, and let simmer for six 
minutes. Moisten with half a pint of velout6 (No. 152), and half a cupful 
of mushroom liquor. Let cook for ten minutes, then put in two truffles 



266 THE TABLE. 



cut into small pieces, six mushrooms, a small sweetbread, and one ounce 
of cooked, smoked beef-tongue, all finely chopped. Finish cooking for 
ten minutes longer, then take from off the fire and incorporate therein two 
raw egg yolks diluted in the juice of half a lemon ; while adding ,the egg 
yolks gently shuffle the pan, thicken well the sauce, then serve with paper 
ruffles neatly arranged at the ends of the wings and legs of the chickens. 

778. Chicken Sant^ & la Boh^mienne. Prepare two chickens as 
for the above (No. 777) ; put them in a sautoire with one ounce of 
butter, seasoning with a good pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper. 
Cook on a brisk fire for six minutes, turning the pieces of chicken 
frequently with a fork; moisten with half a wine-glassful of Madeira wine, 
reduce for one minute, then add. half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151). 
Cook for ten minutes ; add half a pint of cooked macaroni cut in small 
pieces. Cook again for ten minutes. Nicely arrange the chicken on a 
hot dish, pour the gravy over, and fill six bouchfees (No. 270) with the 
macaroni taken from the stew, also a little grated Parmesan cheese 
sprinkled over. Garnish the dish all around with the bouchfees, adjust 
paper ruffles at the end of the chicken legs, and serve hot. 

779. Chicken BoUed k la ProTldence.  Singe, draw, and wipe well 
two chickens of a pound and a quarter each; truss them from the wing to 
the leg with a needle, and boil them in good broth for three-quarters of an 
hour. Prepare a pint of AUemande sauce (No. 210) with the broth of the 
chickens, adding a gill of small cuts of boiled carrots, the same of cooked 
Lima beans or flageolets, and let all cook together for three minutes. Disk 
up the chickens, untruss them, and pour the sauce over, arranging the 
vegetables on each side. Serve with chopped parsley strewn over. 

780. Chicken Fricass^ & la Reine.  Cut up two fine, tender, raw 
chickens into twelve even pieces. Place them in a large sautoire, with one 
quart of cold water, on a brisk fire ; as soon as it comes to a boil, thoroughly' 
skim. Season with one and a half pinches of salt, half a pinch of pepper, two 
cloves, and one bay-leaf, also a light bouquet (No. 254). Let boil slowly 
for twenty-five minutes. Place in another saucepan one and a, half 
ounces of butter, which you melt on the hot range, add to it three table- 
spoonfuls [of flour, thoroughly mix with a wooden spoon, while ' slowly 
cooking without browning, as the above, under no circumstances, should 
be allowed to get brown. Strain the broth into a bowl through a sieve. 
Return the pieces of chicken to the sautoire (but only the chicken), leav- 
ing it at the oven door till further action. Now add, little by little, the 
broth to the flour, being careful to stir continually until all added. 
Let boil for two minutes. Have three egg yolks in a bowl with a 
tablespoonful of good butter, half a gill of cold milk, and just a -little 
cayenne pepper  no more than a third of a saltspoonful  squeezing in also 
the juice of half a medium-sized sound lemon. Mix all well together; and 
then add it to the sauce; stirring continually till all added. Heat up well, 
but do not allow to boil. Strain it through a sieve over the chicken. Mix 
well together, adding two truffles, and four mushrooms cut into small 
dice-shaped pieces. Dress the whole on a hot dish, arrange paper ruffles 



POULTRY. 267 



at the end of the legs, and serve with heart-shaped crodtons (No. 133) 
around the dish. 

781. Chicken Fricass6 il I'Am^ricaiiie. Boil two chickens as for 
No. 779 ; cut them into twelve pieces, and put them into a sautoiie 
with eight minced mushrooms, an ounce of cooked salt pork cut into small 
squares, and half a pint of AUemande sauce (No. 210). Warm thoroughly 
without boiling, and serve with six heart-shaped pieces of fried bread 
(No. 133). 

782. Pillau of Chicken il la Tnrqne. Take a fine tender chicken 
weighing two pounds, singe, draw, and wipe it well, then cut it into twelve 
even pieces. Brown them in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, one 
chopped onion, and one chopped green pepper. Let cook forsix minutes, 
stirring lightly with a wooden spoon, then moisten with a pint of good 
broth (No. gg), and a gill of tomato sauce (No. 205). Add two ounces of 
dried mushrooms which have been soaking in water for several hours, or 
twelve canned mushrooms; season with a good pinch of salt, half a pinch 
of pepper, and half a teaspoonful of diluted saffron. Now add half a 
pint of well-washed, raw rice (if using Italian rice, only pick it) and three 
tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese; cook for twenty minutes longer, 
dress neatly on a hot dish, and serve. 

783. Chicken Pillan k la Creole.  Exactly the same as for No. 782, 
adding three medium-sized, cut-up,fre.sh tomatoes, or half a pint of canned 
tomatoes with the other gamishings. 

784. Chicken Trith Bice.  Singe, draw, and wipe well a tender fowl 
of three pounds; truss it from the wing to the leg, then put it into a sauce- 
pan covering it with water; add two pinches of salt, half a pinch of pepper, 
one carrot cut into four pieces, one whole onion stuck with three cloves, 
and a bouquet (No. 254). Cook for about twenty-five minutes, or until 
half done, then add half apint of well-picked, raw rice; cook again for 
twenty minutes, and when finished, dish up the chicken, suppressing the 
boiiquet, onion, and carrot; arrange the rice nicely around it, and serve. 

785. Cllicken & la* JSaryland.  Procure two small, tender spring 
chickens, leave the half of one aside for other use, and detach the legs 
and the wings; lay them on a plate, season with a good pinch of salt and 
half a pinch of pepper, then dip them in beaten egg, and afterward roll them 
in fresh bread-crumbs. Place them in a buttered pan, pour an ounce of 
clarified butter over, and roast in the oven for eighteen minutes. Pour 
half a pint of cream sauce (No. 181) onto a hot servrng-dish, arrange the 
chicken nicely on top, and decorate with six thin slices of broiled bacon 
(No. 754), also six small corn-fritters (No. 965). Serve as hot as possible. 

786. SnprSme of Chicken k la Toulouse.  Singe, draw, and wipe 
neatly three fine, tender spring chickens. Remove the skin from the 
breasts. Make an incision on top of the breast - bone from end to 
end, then with a small sharp knife, carefully cut off the entire breast on 
each side, including the small wing-bone, which should not be separated 
from the breast, and seeing that the entire breasts are cleverly cut away, 
without a particle of it on the carcasses. 



268 THE TABLE. 



Under each breast will be found a small fillet, which you carefully 
remove, and place on a dish for further action. With a small sharp knife 
make an incision in each breast  at their thinner side  three inches in length 
by one inch in depth. Season the inside of each breast with a pinch of 
salt and half a pinch of pepper, equally divided. Stuff the breasts with two 
ounces of chicken forcemeat (No. 226), mixed with two fine, sound truflSes 
finely sliced, and four mushrooms, also finely sliced. Butter well a well- 
tinned confer sautoire. Gently lay in the six breasts; then take each small 
fillet, press gently with the fingers, and give each a boatlike shape. Make 
six slanting, small incisions on top of each, insert in each incision a small 
slice of truffle, cut with a tube half an inch in diameter. Slightly wet the 
top of each breast with water; carefully arrange one fillet on top of each 
breast lengthwise. Sprinkle a little clarified butter over all witha feather 
brush. Pour into the pan, but not over the suprime', a quarter of a glass- 
ful of Madeira wine and two tablespoonfuls of mushroom liquor ; tightly 
cover the pan with the lid, then place in , the hot oven for ten minutes. 
Pour on a hot serving-dish one pint of hot Toulouse garnishing (No. 176). 
Remove the supr6mes from the oven, neatly dress them over the garnish- 
ing, adjust paper ruffles on each wing-bone, and immediately send to the 
table. 

787. Supreme of Chicken h, la Bayard.  Proceed as for No. 786, 
only serving with one pint of garnishing Bayard (No. 231). 

788. Supreme of Chicken k la Reme.  Exactly the same as for No. 

786, only substituting one pint of hot sauce a la reine (No. 780) for the 
other garnishing. 

789. Supreme of Chicken k la Fatti.  Prepare the supreme the same 
as for No. 786, then have a purfee of rice with cream a la Patti(No. 245), 
garnish the dish with this, and lay the supreme on top. Decorate the rice 
with two thinly sliced truffles, pour a gill of good sauce PSrigueux (No. 
191) over, and serve with paper ruffles. 

790. Supreme of Chicken a la BothschUd.  Have six chicken 
supremes prepared exactly the same as in No. 786, but stuffing them with 
pur^e of chestnuts instead of the chicken forcemeat. Mince very fine two 
sound truffles, then mix them with a pint of hot purfeeof chestnuts (No. 131); 
then arrange the purfee on a hot dish, place six round-shaped crofitons (No. 
133), instead of heart-shaped, nicely dress the suprSmes over the croutons, 
decorate the top of each supreme, right in the centre, with one mushroom- 
head. 

791. Tnrban of Chicken k la Cleyeland. Select two very tender 
chickens, singe, draw, and wipe them well ; bone them and cut them into 
quarters, then put them into a sautoire with one ounce of butter, a good 
pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper ; add half a glassful of Madeira 
wine, and let parboil very slowly for ten minutes. Take half a pint of 
chicken forcemeat (No. 226), add to it one chopped truffle, three chopped 
mushrooms, and half an ounce of cooked minced tongue. Stir well 
together ; put this forcemeat on a siH'er dish, lay the pieces of chicken on 
top, crown-shaped, and decorate with twelve whole mushrooms and two 



POULTRY. 269 



thinly sliced truffles. To the gravy in which the chickens were cooked add 
half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), a teaspoonful of chopped chives, 
and a small pat of fresh butter. Pour this immediately over the chickens, 
put the dish in the oven, and let cook very slowly for ten minutes. 
Squeeze the juice of half a lemon over, and serve with six heart-shaped 
pieces of fried bread (No. 133). 

792. Chicken Curry k I'Indienne.  Take a good, tender three-pound 
chicken, singe, draw neatly, and cut it into square pieces. Put them in 
cold water for five minutes, wash them well, then drain, and put them in 
a saucepan, covering it to the surface with hot water ; season with two 
good pinches of salt, one pinch of pepper, and the third of a pinch of nut- 
meg. Add a bouquet (No. 254), and six small onions ; let cook on a 
moderate stove for forty-five minutes, skimming it well. Take another 
saucepan, in it place one and a half gills of white roux(No. 135), moisten 
it with all of the broth from the chicken, and mix well together. Prepare 
a tablespoonful of diluted curry with four egg yolks, and the juice of half 
a lemon, beat all this well together, pour it into the sauce a little at a time , 
stirring continually and not allowing it to boil. Pour the sauce over the 
chicken, which remains in the saucepan, and dress immediately on a. hot 
dish, decorated with boiled rice all around as a border, and serve. 

793. Chicken Cnrry ^ I'Espagnole.  The same as for No. 792, add- 
ing two cut-up tomatoes and one green pepper, cooking them ten minutes 
with the chicken. 

794. CIticken Cnrry k la Creole.  The same as for No. 792, adding 
one green pepper cut very fine, also one chopped onion, and half a clove 
of garlic, cooking them twenty minutes with the chicken. 

795. Boiled Turkey &. I'Anglaise.  Take a very fine, tender turkey 
of about five pounds, singe, draw, and truss well with a needle from the 
wing to the leg. Put it into the soup-pot, and let cook for one hour ; 
remove to a hot serving-dish. Decorate the dish with a pint of cooked 
spinach k I'Anglaise (No. 940), and six slices of hot, cooked, lean ham. 
Serve with half a cupful of hot broth poured over the turkey so as to keep 
it moist. ' 

796. Boiled Turkey, Celery Sauce.  Exactly the same as for No. 

795, substituting for garnishing one pint of hot celery sauce (No. 200), 
served separately. 

797. BoOed Turkey, Oyster Sauce.  Proceed as for No. 795, serv- 
ing with one pint of hot oyster sauce (No. 173), separately. 

798. BoUed Turkey, Egg Sauce.  The same as for No. 795, serving 
with one pint of hot egg sauce (No. 161), separately. 

799. BoOed Turkey k la Baltimore.  Serve a boiled turkey as for 
No. 795, garnishing it with half a head of cooked and hot cauliflower, one 
good-sized cooked carrot, cut in slices, and six cooked small onions, all 
neatly arranged around the dish, with half a pint of hot Allemande sauce 
(No. 210), served separately. 

800. Boast Turkey, Stuffed with Chestnuts. Singe, draw, wash well, 
and neatly dry a fine, tender turkey, weighing five to six pounds; fill the in- 



270 THE TABLE. 



side with the chestnut stuffing described below, then nicely truss the turkey 
from the wing to the leg; season with a heavy pinch of salt, well sprinkled 
over. Cover the breast with thin slices of larding pork. Put it to roast 
in a roasting-pan in a moderate oven for one hour and a half, basting it 
occasionally with its own gravy. Take from out the oven, untruss, dress 
it on a hot dish, skim the fat off the gravy, add a gill of broth (No. gg)or 
consommS (No. 100) to the gravy, let it just come to a boil, strain into a 
bowl, and send to the table separately. 

Plain roast turkey is prepared the same, suppressing the stuffing, and 
roasting it only one hour and fifteen minutes. 

Chestnnt Stufitagr.  Peel a good-sized, sound shallot, chop it up very 
fine, place in a saucepan on the hot range with one tablespoonful of but- 
ter, and let heat for three minutes without browning, then add a quarter 
of a pound of sausage meat. Cook five minutes longer, then add ten 
finely chopped mushrooms, twelve well-pounded, cooked, peeled chest- 
nuts ; , mix all well together. Season with one pinch of salt, half a pinch 
of pepper, half a saltspoonful of powdered thyme, and a teaspoonful of 
finely chopped parsley. Let just come to a boil, then add half an ounce 
of fresh bread-crumbs, and twenty-four whole cooked and shelled French 
chestnuts ; mix all well together, being careful not to break the chestnuts. , 
Let cool off, and then stuff the turkey with it. 

801. Hashed Turkey a la Royale.  ^Take a pound and a half of dice- 
shaped pieces of cooked turkey; place them in a saucepan with a pint of 
bechamel (No. 154), three tablespoonfiils of mushroom liquor, and two 
truffles cut in square pieces. Season with one pinch of salt, half a pinch 
of pepper, and the third of a pinch of nutmeg. Let all heat together for 
ten minutes, then serve with six heart-shaped pieces of bread (No. 133), 
lightly covered with pllt6-de-foie-gras neatly arranged around the dish. 

802.' Hashed Turkey a la Bechamel. The same as for No. 801, omit- 
ting the truffle and bread croutons, and serving with chopped parsley 
strewn over. 

803. Hashed Turkey ^ la Polonaise.  The same as for No. 801, only 
serving with six poached eggs (No. 404), and six heart-shaped crofitons 
(No. 133), instead of the truffles and p&te-de-foie-gras. 

804. Hashed Turkey k la Creme.  Exactly the same as for No. 801, 
substituting one pint of cold, fresh cream, and a tablespoonful of fresh 
butter for the bechamel, also omitting the truffles and p&tfe-de-foie-gras; 
reducing the cream with the hash to one half, which will take from four 
to five minutes. Pour on a hot dish and serve. 

805. Hashed Turkey en Bordnre.  Decorate the border of a baking- 
dish with a potato croquette preparation (No. 997), place it in the oven for , 
six minutes, then fill the centre with hashed turkey k la bfechamel (No. 
802), and put it in the oven again for five minutes before serving. 

806. Turkey Breasts k la Chipolata. Singe, draw, and wipe neatly 
a fine young turkey of six pounds. Detach the two legs entirely from 
the turkey. Place in a saucepan any piece of pork-skin that is on hand, 
adding one cut-up carrot, one onion, also cut up, and a bouquet (No. 254). 



POULTRY. 



271 



Lay the breasts of the turkey over the garnishing, season with one pinch 
of salt and half a pinch of pepper, then put on the lid and let get a golden 
color for about ten minutes. Moisten with one pint of broth (No. gg), 
and put it into the oven without the lid, letting it cook for forty minutes, 
basting it frequently with its own gravy. Arrange on a hot dish, and 
serve with a pint of hot chipolata (No. 232). The stock remaining in 
the pan can be used for preparing Espagnole sauce. 

807. Turkey Breasts ^ la Robinson. Proceed exactly as for No. 
806, but after cooking for twenty minutes, take it off and place it in another 
saucepan. Baste it with its own gravy, adding half a pint of Espagnole 
sauce (No. 151). Blanch half a pint of chicken or turkey livers, cut them 
into two or three pieces according to their size, and put them with the 
turkey, adding half a glassful of Madeira wine. Let cook for twenty 
minute more, and serve with the livers around the breasts, and the gravy 
thrown over. 

808. Soast Ooose, Staffed with Chestnuts, Apple Sauce. Have a 
fine, tender goose of four pounds, singe, draw, wash well, and thoroughly 
wipe the interior with a cloth ; then fill it with some stuffing as for the 
turkey (No. 800). Close both ends, truss well, sprinkle a pinch of salt 
over, envelop in buttered paper and put it into a roasting -pan. Cook it 
for one hour and a half in a moderate oven, basting it occasionally with 
the dripping. Remove from the oven, dress on a hot serving-dish, untruss, 
skim off the fat from the gravy, add to it a gill of white broth (No. gg), 
let come to a boil, then strain the gravy into a sauce-bowl and serve 
separately. 

809. Timbale of Foie-Gras Lagardfere. Butter lightly six timbale 
molds; decorate the inside according to taste with pieces of truffle and 
smoked beef-tongue; fill them half full with cream forcemeat (No. 225), 
leaving an empty space in the centre, filling this in with a reduced salpi- 
con (No. 256). Cover the salpicon with a very little pat6-de-foie-gras, 
and finish filling with the cream forcemeat. Put the molds in a sautoire 
holding hot water to half their height; boil gently, and then place them 
in a slow oven for ten minutes. Unmold on a hot dish, and serve with 
half a pint of hot sauce Pferigueux (No. igi) separately. Place on top of 
each timbale a small, round croquette of foie-gras, then serve. 

810. Tol-au-Vent k la Financifere.  Fill six vol-au-vents made with 
feuilletage paste (No. 1076) with a quart of financifere garnishing (No. 
246), and serve them on a dish with a folded napkin. 

811. Vol-au-TentSila Toulouse. Fill six vol-au-vents (No. 1076) with 
a quart of hot Toulouse garnishing (No. 176), and serve the same as for 
the above. 

812. Tol-au-Vent & la Seine.  Fill six vol-au-vents (No. 1076) with 
a quart of hot Reine garnishing (No. 623), and serve as for No. 810. 

813. Boned Turkey Si la Prosperity of America. Procure a. fine, 
tender, young Rhode Island turkey, weighing eight pounds. Singe, draw, 
and neatly wipe the interior. Make an incision right along the back. 
Begin boning from the neck down toward the breast, on both sides, being 



272 THE TABLE. 



very careful not to make any holes in the skin, as it should remain per- 
fectly intact. Make an incision from the first joint, then bone both legs. 
Cut away also, very carefully, the two wing bones. Season the inside 
with one pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, evenly divided. Place 
it on a dish, and lay it in the ice-box until needed. Take two pounds 
of lean, raw veal, three^ pounds of fresh pork, and half a pound of 
larding pork, all cut up into small dice-shaped pieces. Season with two 
pinches of salt, one pinch of white pepper, the third of a saltspoonful of 
grated nutmeg, and the same quantity of thyme. Mix all well together. 
Place all in the chopping machine, and chop it exceedingly fine, repeating 
the process, if necessary, until it is chopped to perfection. Should there be 
any sinews among the ingredients, remove them all. Place on a cold dish, 
and put away in the ice-box to cool until the following is prepared. Have 
ready a quarter of a pound of the end (red) part of a cooked smoked beef- 
tongue, eighteen medium-sized, sound truffles, both tongue and truffles cut 
in dice-shaped pieces half an inch square. Take the forcemeat from the ice- 
box, and thoroughly mix the tongue and truffles with it, pouring in also a 
wine-glassful of Madeira wine. Half a cup of well-peeled pistache can be 
added, if at hand. Take the turkey from the ice-box, spread it 6n a clean 
table (skin-side downward). Then, with a keen knife, cut away even 
slices from the breasts, arrange them on the thin, so that the turkey 
should have an equal thickness all over. Place the forcemeat right in the 
centre of the turkey, column shaped, leaving a clear space of two inches 
at each end, and of four inches at each side. Spread on a table a strong, 
clean nat)kin, sprinkling over it a little cold water. Fold up first both 
ends of the turkey, then both sides, so that the four ends should be envel- 
oped ; gently lift, and lay it right, in the centre of the napkin. Roll it 
carefully in the napkin. Tightly tie one end first, then the other, as firmly 
as possible, taking in the slack of the napkin. Place it in a large sauce- 
pan on the hot range, with the carcass, and whatever bones and debris 
pertain to it, completely cover with cold water, place the lid on, and 
when coming to a boil thoroughly skim it, then add one medium-sized, 
sound, scraped carrot, and one well-peeled onion with three cloves stuck 
in. Season with one pinch of salt, and then let boil on a moderate fire for 
fully two and a half hours. Remove the galantine with a skimmer ; let 
cool enough so that it can be easily handled. Cut the strings at both ends; 
roll it over again as before, and tightly tie both ends exactly as before. 
Lay it in a fiat tin pan, placing on top of it a board the size of the boned 
turkey, and on top of it a weight of seven pounds, leaving the weight on 
until the galantine is thoroughly cold, which will take a whole night ; but 
avoid placing it in the ice-box until thoroughly cold. Two days after the 
preparation it will be ready for use ; keeping it in the ice-box in the 
same napkin in which it was cooked. 

814. Jelly for Boned Turkey.  Strain the broth in which the galantine 
was cooked into another saucepan, thoroughly skim all the fat off, add 
one ounce of clarified gelatine. Boil for five minutes. Crack into another 
saucepan the whites of two raw eggs, and the shells as well, squeeze in the 



POULTRY. 



^1Z 



juice of half a sound lemon, adding half a glassful of Madeira wine, and a 
small piece of ice, the size of an egg, finely cracked. Beat all sharply- 
together with a wire whip. Place the broth on the table at hand near the 
eggs, &c., and with a soup-ladle in the left hand, a wire whip in the 
right, add a ladleful of broth, little by little, to the eggs, carefully and 
sharply stirring with the whip until all the broth has been added. Place 
it then on a very moderate fire, and letgently come to a boil. Immediately 
strain through a flannel bag or a napkin into a clean bowl and let cool, and 
it will be ready for use. 

815. Pigeon Catlets i la Victoria.  Singe, draw, and bone three fine 
pigeons, leaving on the legs; cut them in two, and stuff lightly with 
chicken forcemeat (No. 226), immerse then in beaten egg and fresh bread- 
crumbs, then cook in a sautoire with half an ounce of clarified butter, for 
four minutes on each side, and serve with half a pint of hot Victoria 
sauce (No. 208) on the warm dish, and the cutlets on top, with paper 
rufHes nicely arranged. 

816. Sqnabs Roasted Plain.  Singe, draw, cut off the necks, wipe 
neatly, and truss six fine, small squabs ; put them in a roasting-pan with 
half a pinch of salt, evenly divided, and a very little butter spread over. 
Put the pan into a brisk oven to cook for twelve minutes ; then remove 
from the oven, untruss, and dress them on a hot dish, on which you pre- 
viously have placed six small canapes, prepared as in No. 832, one on each 
canape ; neatly decorate the dish with fresh watercress ; skim the fat 
from off the gravy, add to it a gill of white broth (No. 99) ; let it just 
come to a boil, strain it into a sauce-bowl, and send to the table separately. 

817. Squabs Broiled on Toast, with Bacon.  Singe, draw, cut the 
necks off, and wipe nicely three very good-sized squabs ; split them 
without detaching the parts, then lay them on a dish, and season with a 
pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and a tablespoonful of sweet oil ; 
roll them in well, and put them to broil for six minutes on each side. Pre- 
pare a dish with six toasts, arrange the squabs over, and spread a. gill of 
maitre d'hfitel butter (No. 145) on top. Decorate the dish with six slices 
of broiled bacon (No. 754), and serve. 

818. Ballotin of Sqnab k I'ltalienne.  Singe, draw, and bone six 
tender squabs ; stuff them with a good chicken forcemeat (No. 226), and 
leave on one leg, to decorate later with a ruffle. Form them into a circle, 
arranging each squab so it assumes a round shape ; place them in a 
buttered sautoire ; season with a good pinch of salt and half a pinch of 
pepper, and cover with a piece of buttered paper. Put it in the oven for 
fifteen minutes, and when cooked serve with half a pint 'of hot Italian 
sauce (No. 188), the squabs laid on top, with a paper ruflBe fastened on 
to each leg. 

819. Sqnabs k la Crapaadine.  Singe, draw, tl^en split six squabs 
through the back without entirely dividing the parts ; break the bones of 
the legs and wings, flatten them well, and lay them on a dish to season 
with a good pinch of salt, one pinch of pepper, and two tablespoonfuls of. 
oil, roll them in well, then dip them in fresh bread-crumbs, and broil them 



2 74 '^HE TABLE. 



slowly for seven minutes on each side. Arrange them on a hot dishy 
and serve with half a pint of hot Robert sauce (No. 192), to which add 
three chopped mushrooms. Serve the sauce on a dish, and the squabs 
on top. 

820. S(j(uabs k I'Americalne.  Singe, draw, and truss nicely six fine, fat 
squabs ; stuff them with American forcemeat (No. 229), and place them in 

' a roasting-pan with a pinch of salt, evenly distributed, and half an ounce 
of butter well spread over the squabs. Place them in the hot oven, and 
roast for eighteen minutes. Take from out the oven, dress them on a hot 
dish ; untruss ; skim the fat off the gravy, add to it one gill of broth (No. 
99), let come to a boil, strain into a sauce-bowl, decorate the dish with a 
little fresh watercress. Arrange a slice of broiled bacon (No. 754) over 
each bird, and send to the table. 

821. Squabs ^ la Chipolata.  Prepare and roast six squabs same as 
for No. 8i5, and serve them with a pint of hot chipolata garnishing (No. 
232) on a hot dish, and the squabs arranged over. 

822. Squabs en Compote.  Singe, draw, and truss with their legs 
thrust inside, six fine, fat squabs ; lay them in a saucepan with half an 
ounce of butter, one cut-up onion, and one carrot cut the same. Season 
with a pinch of salt, then put the lid on the pan, and cook on a good fire 
for ten minutes. Put in a saucepan six small glazed onions (No. 967), one 
medium-sized carrot, cut with a vegetable-scoop (blanching the latter for 
two minutes), one ounce of salt pork cut into small pieces, and six cut-up 
mushrooms ; moisten them with a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), and 
let cook together for thirty minutes. Transfer the squabs to this prep- 
aration, and let cook again for five minutes ; dress the garnishing on a hot 
dish, arrange the squabs on top, and serve. 

823. Koast Duck Jl I'Am^ricauie.  Select a fine young duck, weigh- 
ing three and a half pounds ; singe, draw, and wipe it well, .then stuff it 
with American forcemeat (No. 229), and place it in a roasting-pan with 
half an ounce of butter, and besprinkle with a pinch of salt, then roast it 
in the oven for forty minutes, basting it occasionally. Lay it on a dish, 
untruss, skim the fat off, add a gill of white broth (No. 99), let it come to 
a boil, then strain the lean part of the gravy over, and garnish with six 
pieces of fried hominy (No. 1035). 

824. Boast Duck; Apple Sauce.  Have a fine, tender duckling of 
three and a half pounds ; singe, draw, wipe neatly, and truss. Place it 
in a roasting-pan, spread half an ounce of butter over, and a pinch of salt. 
Place it in a bris'k oven, and let cook for thirty minutes, not failing to 
baste it occasionally with its own gravy. Dress it on a hot dish, untie 
the string, skim the fat off the gravy, add a gill of broth (No. 99), let it 
come to a boil, then strain the lean part over the duck, decorate with a 
little watercress, and serve with half a pint of hot apple sauce separately 
(No. 168). 

825. Duckling k la Bouennaise.  Take two fine ducklings of one and 
^ half pounds each, singe, draw, and truss them with the legs thrust inside; 
lay them in a roasting-pan, and cover them with half an ounce of butter, 



POULTRY. 275 



seasoning with a pinch of salt ; put them in the oven for ten minutes. 
Cut four medium-sized turnips into small dice-shaped pieces, put them in 
a saucepan with half an ounce of butter and half a teaspoonful of pow- 
dered sugar ; let cook for ten minutes, then moisten with a pint of Espagn- 
ole sauce (No. 151). Lay the ducks in the saucepan with the turnips, 
and let cook again all together for twenty-five minutes ; arrange the ducks 
on a hot dish, untruss, and decorate the dish with the turnips. Pour the 
sauce over all, and serve. 

826. Salmi of Duck ^ I'Am^ricaine.  Procure two fine ducks : singe, 
draw, wipe neatly, and cut off the wings, legs, and breasts ; put the two 
carcasses in a saucepan, sprinkle a little salt over, and put it in the oven 
to cook for six minutes ; remove them, and hash them up. Put them back 
into a saucepan with a pint oflwhite broth (No. 99), and a small bouquet 
(No. 254), and let cook on a moderate fire for fifteen minutes. Put an ounce 
of butter in a sautoire, lay in the wings, legs, and breasts, then season 
with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper ; cook on a very brisk fire 
for three minutes on each side, then add half a glassful of Madeira wine, 
half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), and the zest of a lemon ; strain 
the gravy of the carcasses over, and let all cook again for fifteen minutes. 
Dress nicely on a hot dish, and decorate with six heart-shaped croutons of 
fried hominy, and serve (No. 1035). 

827. Sabni of Dock, with Olires.  Prepare the salmi of ducks as for 
the above (No. 826), adding half a pint of parboiled and stoned olives to 
the sauce. Use six heart-shaped fried croutons of bread (No. 133) instead 
of the hominy, and serve.. 

828. Salmi of Duck ^ la Chassenr.  Make a salmi the same as for 
No. 826, adding twelve sliced mushrooms, and serve with six heart-shaped 
croutons (No. 133). 

829. Salmi of Duck k la Bonrgeoise.  Prepare two fine ducks as for 
No. 826, and add twelve glazed onions (No. 967), and two raw carrots cut 
clove-garlic-shaped, letting them cook in salted water for ten minutes 
previous to adding them to the salmi, also half an ounce of salt pork, 
cut in square pieces, and let cook together with the ducks for fifteen min- 
utes more ; then serve. 

830. Salmi of Duck k la Montglas. Singe, draw, and wipe two fine, 
tender ducks ; cut away the wings,; legs, and breasts, then put the carcasses 
in a roasting-pan ; sprinkle a little salt over, spread on each bird a very 
little butter, and place them in the oven for six minutes ; remove them, 
and hash them up. Lay them in a saucepan, moistened with a pint of 
white broth (No. 99) ; add a small bouquet (No. 254), and let cook on the 
stove for fifteen minutes. Put an ounce of butter in a. sautoire, add the 
wings, legs, and breasts, previously laid aside ; season with a pinch of 
salt, half a, pinch of pepper, and the third of a pinch of nutmeg, and let 
cook on a brisk fire for three minutes on each side. Add half a glassful 
of good sherry, half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), half a pint of 
tomato sauce (No. 205), two thin slices of smoked beef-tongue cut into 
Julienne-shaped pieces, two cut-up truffles, six fine mushrooms, also cut up; 



276 THE TABLE. 



then strain the gravy of the carcasses over this ; let cook all together for 
fifteen minutes more, then artistically dress the salmi on a hot dish, deco- 
rate with six heart-shaped bread croutons (No. 133), adjust paper ruffles to 
the end of the wings and legs, and serve. 

831. Salmi of Dnck k la Mar^chale. Proceed exactly the same as 
for " Salmi k I'Amfericaine " (No. 826),, adding twelve small godiveau quen- 
elles (No 221), ancf twelve, mushrooms cut in two. Let heat well for five 
minutes, then serve with six fried bread croiitons (No. 133). 

A pinch of salt represents 205 grains, or a tablespoonful. 

Half a pinch of pepper represents 38 grains, or a teaspoonful. 

A third of a pinch of nutmeg represents 13 grains, or half a teaspoonful. 



QAMK. 



832. Canapes for Game.  Cut out the desired number of canapes 
from a loaf of American bread (a stale one is preferable) one and a half 
inches thick. Trim neatly, p^re off the crusts; then cut out a piece in the 
centre of each, from end to end, so that the cavity will hold the bird easily 
when sending to the table. Spread a little butter over them, place on a 
tin plate; then brown in the hot oven until -they obtain a good golden 
color. Remove from out the oven, arrange them on a hot dish, and they 
will be ready to serve. 

833. Croquettes of Game "k la F^rignenx.  Make six game croquettes 
exactly the same as the chicken croquettes (No. 758)  the mushrooms can 
be omitted  and serve with half a, pint of hot sauce pferigueux (No. 191), 
separately. 

834. Qnails Boasted, Flain.  Pick six fine, tender, fat quails, singe, 
draw, and wipe them well; truss them, laying a thin layer of lard on the 
breasts. Put them in a roasting-pan, spreading a very little b"tter on 
top of each quail; then pour half a cupful of water in the pan. Season 
with a pinch of salt, and let cook in the' oven for eighteen minutes. Place 
on a hot dish six heart-shaped pieces of toast; untruss the quails, and 
arrange them on top, decorating with a little watercress. Strain the gravy 
into a sauce-bowl, and serve it separately. 

835. Qnails Broiled with Bacon.  Have six fine fat quails. Singe, 
draw, and wipe them well. Split them through the back without separat- 
ing the parts, and break the two leg bones. Put them on a dish; season 
with a pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and a tablespoonful of sweet 
oil, mixing them in well, and put them to broil on a moderate fire for six 
minutes on each side. Arrange six toasts on a hot dish, lay the quails on 
top, and pour a gill of maitre d'h6tel butter (No. 145) over, decorating 
with six slices of broiled bacon (No. 754), and serve. 



GAME. 



,277 



836. Braised Quails, Celery Sauce. Take six nice fat quails, singe, 
draw, and wipe them well. Truss, and cover the breasts with a thin layer 
of lard. Place them in a sautoire with a piece of pork rind, half a carrot, 
and half an onion, both cut-up, and let them 'get a good golden color on 
the fire. Moisten with half a cupful of water, then put them in the oven, 
and let cook for twenty minutes. Serve with a pint of celery sauce (No. 
200), and a little meat-glaze (No. 141) thrown over. 

887. Qnails ii la Fmanci^re.  Braise six quails the same as for the 
above (No. 836), and serve them with a pint of hot financidre garnishing 
(No. 246) in place of the celery sauce. 

838. Doe-birds, Roasted, Plain.  Singe, draw, and truss six fine, 
fat doe-birds. Put them in a roasting-pan with half a cupful of water, 
seasoning with a pinch of salt. Spread a very little butter over the birds, 
and put them in a hot oven for twelve minutes. Dress them on a hot dish 
with six small canapfes (No. 832). Decorate the dish with a little water- 
cress, and serve. 

839. Broiled Doe-birds.  Singe, draw, and wipe well six fine doe- 
birds; split them through the back without detaching the parts, and lay 
them on a dish. Season with a good pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, 
and one tablespoonful of oil. Roll them in well, and broil for four minute^ 
on each side. Prepare a hot dish with six toasts; arrange the doe-birds 
on top, and serve with a gill of maitre d'h6tel butter (No. 145) well spread 
over. Decorate the dish with a little watercress. 

, 840. fioasted Doe-birds il'Am^ricaine. Proceed exactly as for No. 
838, replacing the canapes of bread with six canapes of fried hominy (No. 
1035)1 or corn fritters, arranging six slices of broiled bacon over each bird, 
and serve the same. 

841. Boasted Doe-birds ^ I'Africaine. Exactly as for No. 838, only 
serving with six stuffed egg-plants (No. gog) instead of the canapfes. 

842. Salmi of Doe-birds k la Gastronome. Make a salmi as for 
salmi of snipe (No. 870), and serve with six small potato croquettes 
(No. ggy). 

843. Boast Partridge, Bread Sance.  Singe, draw, and wipe two 
fine, young partridges; truss them neatly, and cover the breasts with a 
layer of thin lard, tying it twice around. Lay them on a roasting-pan, 
spreading a little butter over each, and moistening with half a cupful of 
water. Put the pan in a brisk oven for twenty-five minutes, basting the 
birds occasionally. Dress each bne on a bread canap6 (No. 832), remov- 
ing the strings. Decorate the dish with a little watercress. Strain the 
gravy into a sauce-bowl, and serve it separately; also serving half a pint 
of hot bread-sauce (No. 162) in another bowl. 

844. Partridge Broiled k I'Am^ricaine.  Singe, draw, and wipe 
neatly three tender partridges; cut them in halves, lay them on a dish, 
and season with a good pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and a table- 
spoonful of oil. Roll them in well, then put them to broil for seven 
minutes on each side. Prepare six slices of fried hominy (No. 1035). 
Arrange them on a hot dish; place the partridges over, and pour a gill of 



278 THE TABLE. 



maitre d'h6tel butter on top (No. 145). Place six slices of broiled bacon 
(No. 754) over the birds, and serve. 

845. Partridge and Cabbage.  Select a fine, tender cabbage, clean it 
thoroughly, cut it into four parts; wash well in cold water, remove the 
root, and put into salted boiling water for five minutes. Remove, and 
drain well, then return it to the saucepan with one carrot cut in four 
pieces, one whole onion stuck with four cloves, a quarter of a pound of 
salt pork, in one piece, a bouquet (No. 254), one pint of white broth (No. 
99), and one pint of lean stock. Season with a good pinch of salt and a 
pinch of pepper. Take (in preference) two old partridges; singe, draw, 
and wipe them well; truss them with their wings turned inside, and put 
them on a roasting-pan with half a pinch of salt, and a little butter well 
spread over their breasts, and put them to roast for six minutes. Make 
a hollow space in the centre of the cabbage, place therein the two part- 
ridges and cover them over, laying a piece of buttered paper on top to 
prevent the air from escaping; put the lid on and cook in the oven for 
one hour. Now lift oft the lid, remove the paper, skim off any fat adher- 
ing to the surface, and dress the cabbage neatly on a hot dish; untruss, and 
arrange the partridges, decorating the dish artistically- with the carrots and 
salt pork, cut into six slices. Take away the onion and bouquet, and serve. 

846. Partridge k la Financi^re.  Singe, draw, wipe, and truss two 
partridges with their wings inside. Lay a piece of pork-rind in a sauce- 
pan, adding one carrot and one onion, both cut in slices, two bay- 
leaves, one sprig of thyme, and the two partridges. Season with one 
pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper. When they have assumed a good 
golden color on the hot stove, moisten with half a pint of white broth 
(No. gg), then put the saucepan in the oven and let cook for twenty 
minutes. Dress them on a serving-dish, untruss, pour half a pint of hot 
sauce financi^re (No. 246) over, and serve. The gravy from the par- 
tridges can be utilized for making the financifere sauce. 

847. Partridge Braised Trith Celery Sance.  Proceed exactly the 
same as for the above (No. 846), replacing the financiere by a pint of hot 
celery sauce (No. 200). 

848. Partridge Sant^ k la Chasseur.  Singe, draw, and wipe two 
fine, tender partridges, cut them into twelve pieces, and place them in a 
sautoire with an ounce of butter, seasoning well with a good pinch of salt 
and half a pinch of pepper. Brown well for three minutes on each side ; 
then add a finely chopped shallot, half a glassful of Madeira wine, half a 
pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), and twelve whole mushrooms. Finish 
cooking for fifteen minutes, then serve with six bread croutons (No. 133) 
around the dish. 

849. Cliartrense of Partridge.  Prepare the partridges as for No. 
845. Take a Charlotte-mold, which will hold three pints ; butter lightly, 
and decorate with small pieces of cooked carrot and turnip, cut very evenly 
with a vegetable-tube. When ready, fill the bottom with a layer of cooked 
cabbage ; cut the partridges into pieces, put a layer of them on the cabbage, 
covering the hollow spaces with more cabbage ; lay on top six slices of salt 



GAME. 



279 



pork, add the rest of the partridges, and finish by covering tlie surface 
with cabbage, pressing it down carefully. Place the mold on a tin baking- 
dish, and put it in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes, leaving the oven- 
door open during the whole time. Have a hot dish ready, turn the mold 
upside down on it, and draw off carefully. Serve with a little demi-glace 
(No. 185). 

850. Supreme of Partridge, Sauce P^rigueux.  Singe, draw, wipe 

neatly, and remove the skin from the breasts of three partridges. Make 
an incision on top of each breast-bone, from end to end, then with a keen 
knife carefully cut off the entire breast on both sides of the partridges, 
including the small wing-bone, which should not be separated from the 
breasts, and seeing that the entire breasts are cleverly cut away, without 
leaving a particle of it on the carcasses. Under each breast will be found 
a. small fillet, which you carefully remove, and place on a dish for further 
action. With a small, sharp knife, make an incision in each breast, at their 
thinner side, three inches in length by one inch in depth. Season the 
inside of each breast with a pinch of salt, and half a pinch of pepper, 
equally divided. Stuff the breasts with two ounces of chicken forcemeat 
(No. 226), mixed with two fine, sound, finely sliced truffles, and four finely 
sliced mushrooms. Butter well a ie(i?//-<e</ copper sautoire : gently lay 
in the six breasts ; take each small fillet, press them gently with the 
fingers, giving them a boatlike form. Make six slanting, small incisions 
on top of each, insert in each incision a small slice of truffle, cut with a 
tube half an inch in diameter. Lightly wet the top of each breast with 
water, then neatly lay one fillet on top of each breast lengthwise. Sprinkle 
a little clarified butter over all with a feather brush. Pour into the pan 
(not over the supremes) a quarter of a glassful of Madeira wine and two 
tablespoonfuls of mushroom liquor, tightly cover the pan with a lid, then 
place in the hot oven for ten minutes. Pour on a hot dish one pint of hot 
Toulouse garnishing (No. 176). Remove the supremes from the oven, 
neatly dress them over the garnishing, adjust paper ruflSes on each wing 
bone, and immediately send to the table. 

851. Supreme of Partridge k la Godard.  The same asfor^the above 
(No. 850), but serving with half a pint of Allemande sauce (No. 210), adding 
two sliced truffles, six sliced mushrooms, six blanched cock's combs, and six 
blanched cock's kidneys, in place of the Pferigueux sauce. Heat up well 
on the corner of the stove for four minutes, but do not allow it to boil, 
and pour the garnishing over the hot dish, dressing the supremes over it; 
serve very hot. 

852. Grouse, Boasted Plain. Singe, draw, wipe, and truss two fine 
fat grouse. Place them in a roasting-pan with half a cupful of , water, 
spread a little butter over each, and season with a pinch of salt. Put them 
into a brisk oven, and let cook for eighteen minutes, taking care to baste 
frequently with their own gravy ; then untruss? Have a hot servmg-dish 
ready ; place two bread canap6s (No. 832) on it ; arrange the grouse over, 
and decorate the dish with a little watercress. Strain the gravy into a 
sauce-bowl, and serve it separately. 



28o THE TABLE. 



853. Gronse, Roasted k la Sam Ward. Take two fine fat grouse ; 
pick, singe, draw, and dry them well ; then truss them nicely. Place 
them in a roasting-pan, putting inside of each bird a piece of broiled toast 
four inches long and two wide. Drip in on each toast, with a. spoon, a 
small glassful of good Madeira wine or sherry ; season the grouse with a 
pinch of salt; spread a little butter over. Put them in a brisk oven, and 
let cook for eighteen minutes, taking care to baste them frequently. Lay 
them on a hot dish, untruss, strain the gravy over, and decorate with a 
little watercress. Serve with a little red currant jelly separately. 

854. Gtronse, Broiled with Bacon.  Singe, draw, and wipe nicely two 
fat grouse. Split them in two through the back without separating the 
parts ; lay them on a dish, and season with a pinch of salt, half a pinch of 
pepper, and a tablespoonful of sweet oil. Roll them in well ; then put 
them to broil on a brisk fire for seven minutes on each side. Prepare a 
hot dish with six small toasts, arrange the grouse over, spread a gill of 
maltre d'hotel butter (No. 145) on top, and garnish with six thin slices of 
broiled bacon (No. 754), then serve. 

855. Salmi of Grouse k la Farisieune.  Singe, draw, wipe, and truss 
two fine fat grouse ; season with a pinch of salt, spread a few small bits 
of butter on the birds, then place them in a roasting-pan, and put them in 
a brisk oven to cook for eight minutes. Untruss and cut away the wings, 
legs, and breasts. Put an ounce of good butter into a saucepan with half 
a medium-sized carrot, cut in very small pieces, half an onion cut the 
same, a sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, and six whole peppers. Reduce 
to a good golden color for about five minutes, then hash the bodies of the 
two grouse, and add them to the other ingredients. Moisten with a pint 
of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), half a glassful of good sherry wine, half a 
cupful of mushroom liquor, and the zest of a lemon ; season with half a 
pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and a third of a pinch of nutmeg ; let 
cook for twenty minutes. Now put the- wings, legs, and breasts into a 
separate saucepan, and strain the above sauce over the parts, adding six 
minced mushrooms and two minced truffles. Let cook for three minutes, 
then dress neatly on a hot dish, and serve with six croutons (No. 133) on 
top, and paper ruffles nicely arranged. 

856. Salmi of Grouse k la Walter Scott.  Proceed exactly the same 
as for the above (No. 855), omitting the mushrooms and truffles, and 
serving with half a pint of bread sauce (No. 162) separately. 

857. Salmi of Grouse a la Florentine.  The same as for No. 855, 

only serving the salmi with a garnishing of six hot artichokes k la Floren- 
tine (No. 903) in place of the other garnishing. 

858. Supreme of Grouse k la BieheUeu.  Proceed the same as for 
the supreme of partridge (No. 850), but substituting tongue for truffles, 
and serving with a gill of hot sauce P^rigueux (No. 191), mingled with a 
gill of tomato sauce (No. 205), boiled together for three minutes. 

859. Teal Duck, Boasted Flain. Pick, singe, draw, wipe, and truss 
three fine teal ducks ; place them in a roasting-pan. Season with a pinch 
of salt; put them in a brisk oven to roast for fourteen minutes, then un- 



GAME. 261 

truss. Arrange on a hot serving-dish, and decorate with six slices of 
fried hominy (No. 1035) and a little watercress. 1 

860. Teal Dack, Broiled. Have three fine, fat teal ducks;, pick, 
singe, and dry them neatly; cut the heads off, and split the birds in two 
without separating the parts. Lay them on a dish, and season them with 
a pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and a tablespoonful of sweet oil. 
Roll them in well, and put them to broil on a. moderate fire for seven 
minutes on each side. Have a hot dish with six toasts ready, lay the 
duclcs on top, spread a gill of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 145) over, 
decorate with a little watercress, and serve. 

861. Salmi of Teal- Dnck h, la R^^ence.  Prepare the salmi of teal 
duck as for the salmi of duck i. I'Amfericaine (No. 826), adding half a pint 
of hot RSgence garnishing (No. 235) four minutes before serving. 

862. Ptarmigan, fioasted Plain.  Proceed exactly the same as for 
roasted teal ducks. No. 859. 

863. Ptarmigan, Broiled Plain.  Prepared the same as for teal 
ducks broiled. No. 860. 

864. Sabni of Ptarmigan i la Chassenr.  To be prepared exactly as 

salmi of duck 4 r Amfericaine (No. 826), adding twelve mushrooms, cut in 
two, four minutes before serving, and decorating with six heart-shaped 
croutons (No. 133). 

865. PIOTCrs, Boasted Plain.  Pick, singe, draw, and wipe neatly 
six fine, fat, tender plovers; pick out the eyes, truss the legs together, 
skewer the head under one leg, and lay a thin slice of larding pork on 
each bird; tie securely, then place them in a roasting-pan. Season with a 
pinch of salt evenly divided over each; spread also a. very little butter 
over. Put them in the hot oven, and roast for ten minutes. Remove 
from the oven, arrange six small canapes (No. 832) on a hot dish, dress 
the birds on the canapes, decorate with a little watercress, and serve. 

866. PloTOrS Broiled.  Pick, singe, draw, and wipe six fine, fat 
plovers; pick out the eyes, split them through the back without separat- 
ing the parts, and place them on a dish. Season with one pinch of salt, 
half a pinch of pepper, and a tablespoonful of sweet oil. Roll them in 
well, and put them on a broiler to cook for four minutes on each side. 
Dress them on a hot dish with six pieces of toast, spread a gill of 
maitre d'hotel butter (No. 145) over, decorate with a little watercress, and 
serve. 

867. Sabni of PloTer k la Maison d'Or.  Proceed exactly the same 
as for salmi of woodcock (No. 873), adding, on the serving-dish, six heart- 
shaped bread croutons (No. 133), covered with pat-de-foie-gras. 

868. English Snipe, Boasted.  Procure six fine English snipe ; pick, 
singe, draw, and wipe them (reserve the hearts and livers for further use); 
pick out the eyes, remove the skin from the heads, truss the legs, skewer 
them with the bills; tie a thin slice of larding pork around each bird, and 
put them in a roasting-pan, sprinkling a pinch of salt over. Set them in the 
oven to roast for eight minutes. Hash up very fine the hearts and livers, 
with a teaspoonful of chives and a teaspoonful of good butter, season- 



282 THE TABLE. 



ing with half a pinch of salt and the third of a pinch of pepper. Cover 
six bread canapes (No. 832) with this, sprinkling a little fresh bread- 
crumbs on top. Spread a very little butter over all, and put them oh a 
tin plate in the oven for two minutes. Arrange the canapes on a hot dish, 
dress the snipe nicely over, decorate with a little watercress, and strain 
the gravy into a sauce-bowl, serving it separately. '' 

869. English Snipe, Broiled.  Pick, singe, draw, and dry well six 
fine English snipe; remove the skin from the heads, split them in two with- 
out detaching the parts, and put them on a dish. Season with a pinch of 
salt, half a pinch of pepper, and a tablespoonful of oil. Roll them in well, 
then put them to broil (with the bills stuck into the breasts), and let them 
cook for four minutes on each side. Prepare a hot dish with six toasts, 
arrange the snipe over, spread a gill of maitre d'hfitel butter (No. 145) on 
top, decorate the dish with a little watercress, and serve. 

870. Salmi of Snipe &,la Hoderne.  Singe, draw, and neatly wipe 
six fine, fat snipe. Chop off the legs, and then stuff the inside with a 
little game forcemeat (No. 228) through a paper cornet; fill the cavity 
of the eyes with a little more of the game forcemeat (No. 228), and cover- 
ing each eye right over the game forcemeat with a small bit of truffle, cut 
with a tube. Insert the bills in the breasts, and then lay them on a roast- 
ing-pan, with a little butter; place in the hot oven to roast for six minutes. 
Take from out the oven, lay each one on a square piece of bread, fried in 
a little clarified butter, pour one pint of hpt salmi sauce (No. 193) over, 
to which have been added twelve whole mushrooms, and serve. 

871. Woodcock, Koasted Plain.  Procure six fine, fat woodcocks, pick, 
singe, and draw them, putting the hearts and livers on a plate for further 
use. Take out the eyes, and remove the skin from the heads ; truss up 
the feet, skewer them with the bill, and tie a barde of fat pork around the 
breasts ; then chop up all the hearts and livers very fine, with one tea- 
spoonful of chives, half a pinch of salt, a third of a pinch of pepper, and a 
teaspoonful of butter. Prepare six bread canapes (No. 832), two and a 
half inches long, by one and a half wide ; fry them for two minutes in 
very hot fat.^drain them thoroughly,, and cover each canap6 with some of 
the above mixture, spreading a little fresh bread-crumbs and a very little 
butter over ; place them in a small baking-pan and lay aside. Now put 
the woodcocks in a roasting-pan with a little butter well spread over the 
birds, and roast them in a brisk oven for ten minutes. Two minutes 
before they are done, put the canap6s in the oven, then take both out, and 
lay the canapes on a hot dish ; untie the birds, and arrange them over 
the canapes, decorating the dish with a little watercress. Strain the 
gravy into a sauce-bowl, and serve it separately. 

872. Woodcock, Broiled 1*1111 Bacon.  Pick, singe, draw, pick out the 
eyes, and remove the skin from the heads of six fine woodcocks ; wipe 
them neatly, and split them' through the back without separating the 
parts. Put them on a dish to season with a pinch of salt, half a pinch of 
pepper, and one tablespoonful of sweet oil. Roll them in well, then put 
them on to broil with the bills stuck into the breasts. Let broil for four 



GAME. 283 

minutes on each side, then arrange them on a dish with six pieces of 
heart-shaped fried bread, covered with the hashed hearts and livers as in 
No. 871, spread a gill of maitre-d'h6tel butter (No. 145) over, and deco- 
rate with six slices of broiled bacon (No. 754), then serve. 

873. Salmi of Woodcock h, la Cliasseui-.  Pick, singe, draw, pick out 
the eyes, and remove the skin from the heads of six fine woodcocks ; wipe 
them neatly, and put them in a roasting-pan with half a pinch of salt. 
Cook for four minutes in the oven ; then cut off the legs and necks, but 
preserve the heads. Put an ounce of butter into a saucepan, with half a 
raw carrot and half a raw onion, all cut in pieces, a small bouquet (No. 
254), and six whole peppers. Codk for five minutes on the stove, then 
moisten with half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), half a glassful of 
sherry wine, and three tablespoonfuls of mushroom liquor. Season with 
half a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, and let cook for fifteen 
minutes more. Stick a good-sized, fine mushroom in the bill of each 
head, run the bill into the breast of each woodcock, and put them in a 
sautoire ; strain the sauce over, add twelve mushrooms cut in two, and 
the zest of one lemon. Let cook for six minutes more, then arrange 
nicely on a dish, decorating it with six bread croutons (No. 133); pour 
the sauce over, and serve. 

874. Canyas-back Ducks, fioasted.  Procure two fine, fat canvas-back 
ducks, pick, singe, draw well, and wipe neatly ; throw a light pinch of 
salt inside, run in the head from the end of the neck to the back, truss 
nicely, and place in a roasting-pan. Sprinkle a little salt over, put them 
in a brisk oven, and let cook for eighteen minutes ; arrange on a very hot 
dish, untruss, throw two tablespoonfuls of white broth (No. gg) into each 
duck, and serve with six slices of fried hominy (No. 1035), and currant jelly. 

875. Canvas-back Dacks, Broiled.  Take two fine, fat canvas-back 
ducks ; pick, singe, draw, and wipe them thoroughly. Split them through 
the back without detaching them, and lay them on a dish to season with 
a. good pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and a tablespoonful of oil. 
Roll them in well, and put them to broil for seven minutes on each side. 
Dress them on a hot dish, spread a gill of maitre-d'hotel butter over 
(No. 145), decorate with a little watercress, and serve. 

876. Ked-head Dncks, roasted Broiled.  Red-head ducks roasted are 
prepared exactly the same as canvas-back ducks roasted (No. 874). 

Red-head ducks broiled are prepared exactly the same as for canvas- 
back ducks broiled (No. 875). 

877. Beed-birds, Boasted. Procure twelve freshly killed, fine, fat 
reed-birds ; cut off their legs and wings, pick the eyes out, and remove 
the skin from the heads, clean and wipe them neatly, and with a skewer 
remove the gizzards from the sides, then cover their breasts lightly with 
thin slices of bacon ; arrange them on three kidney-skewers, four on each, 
and lay them in a roasting-pan ; season with a pinch of salt, spread a very 
little butter over, and set them in the oven to roast for seven minutes ; 
remove them to a hot dish with six hot toasts ; garnish with watercress 
and send to the table immediately. 



284 THE TABLE. 



878. Saddle of Tcnison, Jelly Sance.  Procure a saddle of a small 
venison, weighing about five pounds ; pare it neatly, remove the sinews 
from the surface, and lard it with a larding-needle as finely as possible ; 
tie it three times around. Put into the roasting-pan one sliced onion 
and one sliced carrot ; lay in the saddle, seasoning with one pinch of 
salt ; spread half an ounce of butter over, and put it in a brisk oven 
to roast for forty minutes, basting it frequently with its own gravy., 
Untie before lifting it from the pan, arrange neatly on a hot dish ; 
pour into the pan half a glassful of Madeira wine and a gill of white broth 
(No. 99); let come to a boil on the stove. Skim the fat off the gravy, 
straining the lean part over the saddle. Serve with half a pint of hot 
currant-jelly sauce (No. 884) separately. 

All saddles, of venison are prepared the same way, only with different 
sauces and garnishings. V 

879. Venison Steak^ Broiled.  Procure from a freshly killed deer a 
fine leg of about five pounds weight; remove the noix, cut it into six 
steaks ; pare and flatten them nicely. Put them on a plate to season with 
a good pinch of salt, a pinch of pepper, the third of a pinch of nutmeg, 
and one tablespoonful of oil. Roll them in well, and put them to broil 
for five minutes on each side. Dress on a, hot dish, and spread a gill 
of maitre-d'hotel butter (No. 145) over; decorate the dish with. a little 
watercress, and serve. 

All venison steaks are prepared the same way, only served with dif- 
ferent saiices and garnishings. 

880. Venison Steak, Londonderry Sauce. To be prepared the same 

as for the above (No. 879). Cut into Julienne-shaped pieces half an ounce of 
citron, also the zest of half a small, sound lemon qut in the same way. 
Place them in a saucepan with a glassful of good port wine ; cook for two 
or three minutes at most. Add now a gill of currant jelly, stir all well 
together until the jelly is thoroughly dissolved, add just a little Cayenne 
pepper, but no more than the equivalent of the third of a saltspoonful. 
Allow to come to a boil. Pour the sauce on the hot serving-dish, place 
the steaks one overlapping another, and serve very hot. 

881. Venison Steak, Colbert Sance.  Proceed the same as for No. 879, 

serving with half a pint of hot Colbert sauce (No. 190). 

882. Venison Steak, Pnr^e of Chestnnts.  The same as for No. 879, 
serving with half a pint of purfee of chestnuts (No. 131). 

883. Venison Steak, Mashed Potatoes. The same as for No. 879, 

serving with a pint of mashed potatoes and a little gravy (No. 998). 

884. Venison Steaks, Currant-Jelly Sance.  The same as in No. 879, 

serving with the following sauce : put in a saucepan on a hot range a 
wine-glassful of good port wine , let it come to a boil ; then add half a 
pint of currant jelly (No. 1326), thoroughly stir until the jelly is well dis- 
solved, pour in a gill of sauce Espagnole (No. 151) ; let again come to a 
boil, then pour the sauce on a hot dish; dress the steaks over it, one 
overlapping another, and send to the table hqt. 

885. Venison Chops, Chestnut Pnr^e. Have six fine venison chops ; 



GAME. 285 

pare, flatten a little, and place them on a plate with a good pinch of salt, 
half a pinch of pepper, and a tablespoonful of oil. Roll them in well, and 
put them to broil for four minutes on each side ; arrange half a pint of 
hot pur6e of chestnuts (No. 131) on a dish. Place the chops over, and 
serve with a good gravy thrown over all. 

886. Civet of Yenison, Poiyrade Sance.  Procure two and a half pounds 
of venison, the lower part if possible (for the lean parts are preferable), 
cut it into small square pieces, and lay them in an earthen jar, with one 
sliced onion, half a bunch of parsley-roots, a sprig of thyme, two bay- 
leaves, twelve whole peppers, two pinches of salt, half a pinch of pepper, 
and half aglassful of vinegar. Let them marinate for twelve hours. Drain 
off the juice, and put the venison in a sautoire with an ounce of clarified 
butter; let cook for ten minutes, then add three tablespoonfuls of flour, 
stirring well. Moisten with one and a half pints of broth (No. gg), also 
the marinade-liquor (or juice), well strained. Se^on with ii pinch of 
salt and half a pinch of pepper, and let cook again for forty minutes. 
Arrange the civet nicely on a hot dish, sprinkle a little chopped parsley 
over, and serve. 

887. Ciret of Venison k la Frant^aise.  Prepare the venison exactly 

the same as for No. 886, and after marinating it twelve hours, drain it well 
from the marinade-juice, and place it in a saucepan with an ounce of clari- 
fied butter, and let brown for ten minutes on a moderate fire ; then add 
three tablespoonfuls of flour, constantly stirring while adding it. Moisten 
with one and a half glassfuls of red wine, also a pint of hot white broth 
(No. gg). Season with half a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, 
then stir well again until boiling, and add twelve well-peeled, small, sound 
onions, and one ounce of salt pork cut into small, square pieces, also a 
bouquet (No. 254). Let cook all together for forty minutes ; and four 
minutes before serving add twelve whole mushrooms. Dress on a hot 
dish, suppress the bouquet, decorate with bread cr&utons as in No 133, all 
round the dish, and serve. 

888. CSvet of Tenison \l la Parisienne.  The same as for the above 
(No. 887), omitting the salt pork, and substituting for it eighteen small 
mushrooms instead of twelve. 

889. Tenison Pie k I'Am^ricaine.  Have three pounds of venison cut 
into small, square pieces (the parings are preferable) ; place them in a 
saucepan with an ounce of butter, and brown them well for six minutes, 
then add one tablespoonful of flour ; stir well, and moisten with a quart 
of white broth (No. gg) ; throw in six small, glazed, white onions, a bou- 
quet (No. 254), two pinches of salt, one pinch of pepper, and the third of 
a pinch of nutmeg. Let cook on the stove for forty-five minutes with the 
lid on, and when done, lay the stew into a deep dish ; cover with a good 
pie-crust (No. 1077), carefully wetting the edges ; egg the surface with 
beaten egg, make two incisions on each side and a small hole in the centre, 
then bake in the oven for ffirty minutes. Prepare a dish with a folded 
napkin, lay upon this the dish containing the pie, and serve. 

890. Antelope Steak, Russian Sauce. Prepared exactly the same as 



286 THE TABLE. 



Venison steak (No. 879), and served with half a pint of hot Russian sauce 
(No. 211) on the dish, and the steak over it. 

891. Antelope Chops, Port Wine Sauce.  Broil six fine antelope chops 
exactly the same as in No. 885. Heat a glassful of port wine in a sauce- 
pan, add two cloves, one bay-leaf, eighteen whole peppers, a gill of cur- 
rant jelly (No. 1326), thoroughly stir until the jelly is completely dis- 
solved, then thicken with half a gill of sauce Espagnole (No. 151), lightly 
heat again ; then strain on a hot serving-dish, neatly dresc the chops over 
it, and send to the table very hot. 

892. Hare, Boasted, Stuffed.  Procure two fine hares, cut them in half, 
that is, separating the fore-quarters from the hind-quarters. Bone the 
saddles down to .the legs, but not the legs ; place them on a deep earthen 
dish, pour in a wine-glassful of white wine, adding one medium-sized, 
sound, sliced lemon, one peeled and sliced onion, one sprig of thyme ; 
seasoning with a pinch and a half of salt, a pinch of pepper, and two cloves. 
Roll the saddles well several times in the seasoning, and put. aside to 
steep for at least twelve hours. 

Stuffing.  Place in a saucepan on the hot range half a good-sized, 
sound, chopped onion with a tablespoonful of butter ; cook for one minute, 
then add two ounces of sausage-meat, six chopped mushrooms, a teaspoon- 
ful of chopped parsley, season with half a pinch of salt and the third of a 
pinch of pepper. Cook all together for six minutes. Let cool, until 
needed. 

Peel four fine, sound apples, cut each into six equal parts, remove the 
cores ; place theiti in a pan on the fire with half a glassful of white wine or 
good cider. Boil for four minutes, then place this with the above force- 
meat, and mix all well together. 

Take the marinated hares, stuff the saddles (which were boned) with 
the above stuffing evenly, give them a nice round shape, and tie so as to 
hold them firm ; arrange a piece of larding pork over each saddle, then lay 
them in a roasting-pan, with one carrot and one onion cut into slices and 
placed at the bottom of the pan ; pour one pint of white broth (No. gg) 
right over the hares. Place in the hot oven, and roast for forty-five 
minutes, taking care to baste frequently with its own gravy. Remove 
from the oven, untie, dress on a hot dish, strain the gravy over the sad- 
dles, nicely decorate the dish with heart-shaped croutons (No. 133) all 
around, and serve. 

The fore-quarters can be utilized for Civet, etc. , as desired. 

893. Civet of Hare ^ la FranQaise.  Remove the entire skin from a 
good-sized, tender hare, neatly draw it, preserving the blood, if there is 
any, and also the liver, the gall being carefully removed. Place the blood 
and liver on the same dish, and proceed to cut the hare into twelve pieces. 
Put them into a stone jar, seasoning with one and a half good pinches of salt, 
a good pinch of pepper, a third of a pinch of nutmeg, one sliced onion, 
one sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, and half a glassful of white wine. 
Mix all well together, and steep well for six hours. Lift out the pieces 
of hare, and put them in a saucepan with one ounce of butter, adding 



VEGETABLES. 287 



twelve glazed, small onions, and one ounce of salt pork, cut into small 
pieces ; let cook on a brisk fire for ten minutes, then add three tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, stir well, and moisten with a glassful of red wine, also half 
a pint of white broth (No. 99). Stir until it boils, then season again with 
half a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper ; cook for one hour longer, 
and fifteen minutes before it is done put in the blood, heart, and liver, 
finely chopped and all well mixed together. Serve on a dish with six 
croutons (No. 133). 

894. Gibelotte of Hare.  Proceed exactly the same as for the above 
(No. 893), replacing the glassful of red wine by a full pint of white broth 
(No. 99), and adding twelve whole mushrooms four minutes before 
serving. 

895. Fillets of Hare, Saace Poivrade.  Have two fine English or 
American hares ; clean them neatly as for No. 893, cut them off from the 
end of the rack, remove the s^in from the fillets, and lard the surface with 
a small needle. Put them on a dish, and season with a pinch and a half of 
salt, half a pinch of pepper, and the third of a pinch of nutmeg ; add one 
onion, and one carrot cut in pieces, also three tablespoonfuls of white 
wine. Let all souse together for two hours, then transfer the whole to a 
roasting-pan, with any scraps of pork-rind, one sliced carrot, and a sliced 
onion at the bottom of the pan ; put it in the oven, and let cook for thirty 
minutes. Place the fillets on a dish, add to the pan one gill of hot broth 
(No. 99), let come to a boil, and then strain the gravy over, and serye with 
half a pint of poivrade sauce (No. 194) separately. 

A pinch of salt represents 205 grains, or a tablespoonful. 

Half a pinch of pepper represents 38 grains, or a teaspoonful. 

A third of a pinch of nutmeg represents 13 grains, or half a teaspoonful. 



VEGETABLES. 



896. Artichokes a la Barigoul Lean. Take three large, fine, sound 
French artichokes, parboil them for three minutes, drain, and pare the 
tips as well as the bottoms. Remove the chokes with a vegetable-scoop. 
Place them in a saucepan, with a medium-sized, sliced carrot, one sound, 
sliced onion, and a tablespoonful of good butter. Season the artichokes 
with a pinch of salt only. Cut up very fine one peeled, sound shallot, and 
place it in a separate pan with a tablespoonful of butter, and cook it for 
three minutes, being careful not to let it get brown. Add ten chopped 
mushrooms, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and a teaspoonful of 
finely chopped chervil. Season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of 
pepper. Cook for five minutes, stirring occasionally meanwhile. Then 
stuff the artichokes with the preparation, placing on top of each, one whole 
mushroom. Place them in the hot oven, with a wine-glassful of white 



288 THE TABLE. 



wine and a gill of white broth (No. gg) ; put the lid on the pan, and cook 
for forty minutes. Remove, and dregs them on a hot dish. Add a gill 
of good Allemande sauce (No. 210) to the sauce of the artichokes, heat up 
a little, but do not boil; strain it into a bowl, and serve separately. 

The Same, Fat.  Pare the tips, as also the bottoms, of three fine, fresh,' 
large French artichokes. Remove the chokes with a vegetable-scoop. 
Place them in a saucepan with half an ounce of butter, one sliced carrot, 
two cloves, one bay-leaf, and one sprig of thyme. Cut up very fine one 
sound, peeled shallot, place it in a saucepan, with one medium-sized green 
pepper cut up in small dice-shaped pieces, and a tablespoonf ul of sweet oil. 
Cook three minutes. Add a quarter of an ounce of minced cooked ham, 
eight chopped mushrooms, and one tablespoonful of well-cleaned rice. Let 
cook for three minutes. Season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of 
pepper; add a glassful of white wine, cook for five minutes longer. Add 
half a gill of tomato sauce (No. 205), and let cook for five minutes more. 
Stuff the artichokes with the above; arrange a thin slice of larding pork 
on top of each, place them on the hot stove, with half a glassful of white 
wine; boil for two minutes, then add half a gill of white broth (No. gg); 
cover the pan, place in the hot oven, and let cook for forty minutes. 
Remove from the oven; dress the artichokes on a hot dish, add a gill of 
Madeira sauce (No. 185) to the gravy. Reduce it for three minutes; strain 
it into a bowl, and serve separately, very hot. 

897. Artichokes Santas.  Cut six fine, solid, green artichokes into 
quarters, and remove the choke entirely. Trim the leaves neatly, and 
parboil them for five minutes in salted and acidulated water. Remove, 
and drain them thoroughly. Lay them in a sautoire ; season with a pinch 
of salt, a pinch of pepper, and add two ounces of good butter. Cover the 
pan with the lid, and set to cook in a moderate oven for twenty-five 
minutes. Take it out, place the artichokes in a deep dish, and serve with 
any desired sauce. 

898. Artichokes k la Duxelle.  Chop up finely, and brownfor ten min- 
utes in an ounce of butter, six mushrooms, two fine, sound shallots, a 
quarter of a bunch of parsley, and a clove of garlic. Pare six small or 
three large artichokes; remove the choke with a spoon, and fry the tops 
of the leaves in boiling fat for two minutes, being careful to fry only the 
leaves. Place them in a sautoire, covering each- artichoke with a thin slice 
of salt pork, and laying a buttered paper on top. Moisten with half a pint 
of hotconsomm6 (No. 100) and half a glassful of white wine. Then place 
them in a moderate oven to braise for thirty-five minutes. When done, 
put the prepared gravy into a gill of Italian sauce (No. 188); place the 
artichokes in a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. 

899. Fried Artiehokes.  Take three fine, large French artichokes; 
remove the first three or four rows of leaves; cut each artichoke into six 
pieces; remove the choke with a spoon; pare the tips of the remaining 
leaves, and lay the pieces in a bowl, with two tablespoonfuls of oil, a good 
pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, a third of a pinch of nutmeg, and a 
tablespoonful of vinegar; Stir all well together. Make a batter as for 



VEGETABLES. 289 



No. 1 1 86, dip the artichokes in it, and mix well. Have some fat boiling 
in a deep pan; lift up the pieces with a skimmer and lay them in one by 
one, putting in as many as the pan will hold. Stir well, detach those 
pieces which adhere to the others, and after twelve minutes, or when they 
are of a golden color, take them out with a strainer. Throw a good hand- 
ful of parsley-greens into the pan, and as the fat ceases to crackle, after 
three minutes, take it up; drain through a napkin sprinkled with a little 
salt. Pile the artichokes on a dish, dome-shaped, garnish with fried pars- 
ley, and serve. 

900. Artichokes, with Sance.  Trim neatly six small raw artichokes; 
pare the under parts, lay them in a saucepan, and cover them partially 
with boiling water, adding a handful of salt and one tablespoonful of 
vinegar. Let them cook for about forty minutes, then draw out a leaf, 
and if it detaches easily, the artichokes are sufficiently done. Take them 
from the water, and put them to drain upside down. Arrange them on a 
dish with a folded napkin, and serve. Artichokes prepared in this way 
can be eaten with white, blonde, Hollandaise, or any kind of sauce. To 
keep the artichokes green, tie a piece of charred wood about the size of 
an egg in a linen cloth, and pour over it the water to be used for boiling 
the artichokes. 

901. Stuifed Artichokes il la BarigonL  Pare three fine, large, French 
artichokes; cut the under leaves straight, then parboil them sufficiently 
to remove the choke. After laying them in cold water for five minutes, 
and draining them thoroughly, fill the empty space with a forcemeat made 
of half an ounce of hashed salt pork, six minced mushrooms, a teaspoon- 
ful of chopped parsley, and two hashed shallots, and seasoning with half 
a pinch of pepper and a third of a pinch of nutmeg, mixing all well 
together. Tie them up with a string. Heat three tablespoonfuls of 
olive oil in a pan, and in it brown well the artichokes for three minutes 
on each side. Place them in a sautoire, and put on top of each artichoke 
a small slice of fresh pork or veal, or some butter, adding a glassful of 
broth (No. gg). Cook them in the oven for forty minutes, place the 
artichokes in a hot dish, pour the sauce over and serve. 

902. Artichokes h. la Vinaigrette.  Prepare and cook three large or 
six small, fine artichokes the same as for No. goo. The large ones are to 
be eaten boiled, cooled, and served with the following sauce 'in a sauce- 
bowl : pound the yolk of a hard-boiled egg in a bowl, dilute it with two 
spoonfuls of vinegar, season with a pinch of salt, and half a pinch of pep- 
per, a finely chopped shallot, and three tablespoonfuls of good oil. Mix 
well together, and serve. 

The small artichokes may be served in the same way, or they can be 
eaten raw (as they frequently are in Europe), with the choke removed. 
Dress the artichokes on a dish with a folded napkin, and serve the 
sauce in a separate bowl. 

903. Artichokes k la Florentine.  Fill six parboiled fresh or conserved 
artichoke-bottoms with a preparation made of fresh sliced mushrooms; 
if at hand, a small, cooked cauliflower, weighing half a pound when pared, 

19 



ago 



THE TABLE. 



and stewed in half a pint of bechamel (No. 154), with two tablespoonfuls 
of grated cheese, seasoned with half a pinch of pepper, and the third of a 
pinch of nutmeg. Sprinkle with fresh bread-crumbs, and pour over 
them a little clarified butter; brown in the oven for ten minutes; place the 
artichokes in a hot dish, pour a gill of hot Madeira sauce (No. 185) over 
them, and serve. 

5)04. Asparagus, Sance Hollandaise.  Scrape nicely and wash care- 
fully two bunches of fine asparagus ; tie them into six equal bunches, 
arranging the heads all one way, and chop off the ends evenly, Boil 
them until they are done in salted water, or from twenty to twenty-two 
minutes ; lift them out, drain them thoroughly on a cloth, and lay them 
nicely on a dish with a folded napkin. Untie , and serve with half a pint 
of hot Hollandaise sauce (No. 160), in a separate bowl. 

Asparagus with drawn butter is prepared in exactly the same way, and 
is served with a gill of drawn butter (No. 157). 

905. Asparagus & la Vinaigrette.  Prepare two bunches of sound 
asparagus as in No. 904, and serve with half a pint of sauce vinaigrette 
(No. 902), after the asparagus has been thoroughly cooled. Asparagus 
can be served in this way either hot or cold. 

90G. Asparagus k la Tesslnoise.  Boil for only twelve minutes two 
bunches of fine fresh asparagus as for No. 904, place them on a dish in 
layers, with grated Swiss or Parmesan cheese between. Lightly brown a 
third of a medium-sized, sound, chopped onion in one ounce of butter, 
and pour over the whole ; sprinkle the top with a little cheese and fresh 
bread-crumbs, and cook in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. 

Take out of the oven, and send to the table in the same dish. 

907. Fried Egg-plant.  Peel one medium-sized egg.,plant, cut it into 
six round slices, about half an inch in thickness, and season with half a 
teaspoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper. Dip the pieces in beaten 
egg and in fresh bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat for five minutes. 
Remove, salt slightly again, and drain them well; serve on a hot dish over 
a folded napkin. 

908. Broiled Egg-plant.  Peel neatly a sound, medium-sized egg- 
plant, and cut it into six even slices half an inch thick, in such away 
that one egg-plant will be sufficient. Place the slices in a dish ; season 
them with ^ pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, and, throw over 
them a tablespoonful of sweet oil. Mix well together ; then arrange 
the slices on the broiler, and broil them for five minutes on each side. Re- 
move them from the fire, place them in a hot dish, spread a gill of maitre 
d'liotel (No. 145) over them, and send them"to the table. 

909. Staffed Egg-plant.  Cut a good-sized egg-plant into six parts, so 
that the peel remains intact on one side. Make four incisions inside of 
each piece , and fry them for one minute in boiling fat ; dig out the fleshy 
part of the egg-plant with a potato-scoop, and fill it with any forcemeat 
at hand. Sprinkle the top with bread-crumbs and a little clarified butter; 
brown well in the oven for ten minutes, and serve. 

910. Beet-roots, Boiled Plain.  Wash a quart of sound, young beet- 



VEGETABLES. 



291 



roots thoroughly in cold water. Place them in a saucepan, covering them 
with cold water ; season with a handful of salt and two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar ; put on the lid and cook for one hour and ten minutes. Take 
them from the fire ; lift them from the water, and peel them while they 
are warm. When done, put them in a stone jar ; strain over them the 
liquor in which they were boiled ; spread two tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar on top ; cover them, and put them away in a cool place for use 
when required. 

Beet-roots are generally served as a salad, a hors-d'ceuvre, or a 
garnishing for salad. 

911. Beet-roots Santees an Benrre. With the same quantity of beet- 
roots proceed as in No. 910 ; when cooked and peeled, cut them up in 
clove-shaped pieces ; then put them in a sautoire with one ounce of 
butter, seasoning with a pinch of pepper, and sprinkling a very little 
powdered sugar over them. Let them cook on the stove for six minutes, 
carefully tossing them from time to time ; then arrange them in a hot 
vegetable-dish, and serve. 

912. Beet-roots Sant^es & la Creme.  Proceed the same as in No. gii, 
adding half a pint of hot bechamel (No. 154) three minutes before serving. 

913. Mushrooms Saut^es ft la Bordelaise.  Select a pound of the 

largest, driest, thickest, and firmest mushrooms procurable ; pare neatly, 
wash them well, drain, and cut lozenge-shaped. Place them in an earthen 
dish, sprinkle them with a tablespoonful of good oil, a pinch of salt, and 
twelve whole peppers , and leave them in the marinade for two hours. Take 
them out and stew them for six minutes ; when done, place them on the 
serving-dish, and cover them with the following sauce : Place in a 
sautoire three tablespoonfuls of oil, a teaspoonful of parsley, the same of 
chives, and a clove of crushed garlic, all well chopped. Heat for five 
minutes ; then add them to the mushrooms, which are ready to serve. 

914. Mnshrooms Santas on Toast.  Choose a pound of fine, sound, 
large, fresh mushrooms, neatly pare off the ends, clean, and wash them 
well. Drain, and place them in a sautoire with an ounce of good butter. 
Season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper. Cover, and let 
them cook for ten minutes, tossing them well meanwhile. Squeeze in the 
juice of half a medium-sized sound lemon ; add a pinch of chopped parsley, 
nicely sprinkled over. Place six pieces of toasted bread on a hot dish, 
dress the mushrooms over the toasts, and serve. 

915. Mnshrooms Santas a la Creme.  Prepare a pound of fine, fresh 
mushrooms exactly the same as above (No. 914), and if very large cut 
them in two. Place them in a sautoire with an ounce of good butter. 
Season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, then put the lid on, 
and cook on a moderate fire for six minutes; then add two tablespoonfuls 
of velout6 sauce (No. 152), and half a cupful of sweet cream. Cook again 
for four minutes, and serve them in a very hot dish with six heart-shaped 
bread croiitons (No. 133) around it. 

916. Mnshrooms Broiled on Toast.  Pare neatly, wash well, and dry 
thoroughly one pound of fine, large mushrooms. Lay tliem on a dish, 



292 THE TABLE. 



season with a pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and a tablespoonful of 
sweet oil. Roll them in well; then put them on to broil for four minutes 
on each side; arrange them on a hot dish with six slices of toast; pour a 
gill of maltre d'hotel butter (No. 145) over the mushrooms, and serve. 

917. Branched Cabbage.  Pare off the outer leaves from a medium- 
sized cabbage; cut it into four square pieces, wash thoroughly, dry, and 
put it in a saucepan covering it with salted hot water. Cook for ten 
minutes, drain, and put it into cold water to cool off ; remove from the 
water, and drain again. 

All cabbages are blanched before using them, with the exception of 
stuffed cabbage, which must be left whole. 

918. Cabbage mth Cream.  Drain, and let cool a well-blanched cab- 
bage (No. 917); chop it up, and place it in a saucepan with two ounces of 
butter, seasoning with a good pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and 
the third of a pinch of grated nutmeg; add a. tablespoonful of flour, stir 
well, and moisten with a cupful ol cream. Reduce until the cabbage and 
gravy are well incorporated, which will take about forty-five minutes. 
Arrange on a hot dish, and serve. 

919. Stuffed Cabbage.  Cut out the toot and heart from a medium- 
sized cabbage-head, and pick off several of the outer leaves; parboil the 
rest as for No. 917. After removing it from the fire, open the leaves care- 
fully, so as not to break them; then season the cabbage with a pinch of 
salt and half a pinch of pepper, and fill the inside of the leaves with a good 
sausage forcemeat (No. 220). Close them up, and tie the cabbage so that 
none of the stuffing escapes ; then lay it in a sautoire containing one cutr 
up carrot, one cut-up onion, a piece of lard skin, and half a pint of white 
broth (No. 99). Cover with a little fat from the soup-stock; lay a buttered 
paper on top, and let cook for one hour in the oven, basting it occasionally 
with its own juice; untie, and serve with half a pint of Madeira sauce 
(No. 185). 

920. Cabbage for Garnishing.  Prepare a cabbage exactly the same 
as for No. 919; divide it into six parts, stuff each one with sausage force- 
meat (No. 220), wrap them up, and tie, rolling them well. Put them in a 
sautoire garnished the same as for the stuffed cabbage, and cook for forty 
minutes in the oven; untie, and serve when needed. 

921. Pork and Cabbage.  Pare neatly, and divide a medium-sized 
cabbage into four pieces ; wash them well, parboil for ten minutes, and 
then put them into any kind of vessel with a pound of salt pork, well 
washed, three cervelas, a branch of celery, one onion, two large carrots, 
a blade each of bay-leaf and thyme, half a pinch of pepper, but no salt; 
and cover with a buttered paper. Let simmer . on a gentle fire for one 
hour and a half ; then place the cabbage in a dish , using a skimmer ; also 
the pork and sausages, laying them on top ; decorate the dish with the 
rest of the vegetables, and serve. 

922. Brussels Sprouts, Sautes au Benrre.  Pare neatly, and pick off 
the outer dead leaves of one pound of imported Brussels sprouts, or one 
and a half pounds of domestic sprouts ; wash them thoroughly, drain, 



VEGETABLES. 293 

and cook them in boiling salted water for seven minutes. Drain, and let 
cool in cold water ; drain them once more, then throw the sprouts into a 
sautoire containing two ounces of butter. Season with half a pinch each 
of salt and pepper, adding a teaspoonful of chopped parsley ; cook slightly 
for five minutes ; then serve. 

923. Brnssels Sprouts, Santes & la Creme.  Pare, pick, and blanch 

one pound of sprouts as in No. 922. When well drained, put them in a 
sautoire with two tablespoonfuls of veloutS (No. 152); season with half a 
pinch of salt, and the third of a pinch each of pepper and nutmeg. 
Add half a cupful of sweet cream. Let them heat, but not boil, for 
five minutes, tossing them frequently ; dress on a hot dish, and 
serve. 

924. Sonrkroat.  After washing three pints of imported sourkrout in 
several waters, drain it well, and put it in a saucepan with a large piece 
of well-washed salt pork, three cervelas, two carrots, two whole onions, 
half a cupful of roast meat-fat, six juniper berries, a glassful of good 
white wine, and a pint of white broth (No. 99). Let it cook slowly for 
three hours ; then drain the sourkrout, dish it up with the pork on top, 
which can either be served in one piece, or divided into six slices, 
arranging the cervelas around, nicely dressed. 

925. Cauliflower, Boiled Tnth Butter.  Take one large or two small 
cauliflowers ; pare, pick, and examine them well to see if anything 
adheres which should be removed; wash them thoroughly in fresh water, 
and then put in a saucepan, covering with cold water ; season with a 
handful of salt and half a pinch of pepper, and add an ounce of kneaded 
butter. After cooking about thirty minutes, drain them through a colan- 
der, and lay them on u. dish, pouring over them a sauce made of one 
ounce of good butter, a third of a pinch of salt, the same of pepper, and a 
tablespoonful of vinegar, then serve. 

Cauliflowers prepared the same way can be served with a white sauce 
or Hollandaise sauce. They are also eaten as a salad When cold. 

926. Cauliflower au Gratin.  Pare, pick, cook, and drain one large or 
two medium-sized cauliflowers as for No. 925. Cut off the roots; then 
place them on a buttered baking-dish, covering them with a pint of good 
bechamel (No. 154), to which three tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan 
cheese have been added. Sprinkle the top with three more tablespoonfuls 
of grated cheese and a little fresh bread-crumbs. Place the dish in the 
oven and let it get a golden brown color. It will require about twenty 
minutes' cooking, but care must be taken to turn the dish frequently, so 
that the cauliflower will be equally well browned all over. 

927. Carrots Saut^es k la Creme. Pare off the ends of six good-sized 
carrots, scrape them neatly, wash thoroughly, and cut them in rounds half 
an inch thick. Cook them in white broth (No. 99), (salted water will answer 
as well); cover ihe saucepan, and let them cook for thirty minutes. Remove, 
drain, and place them in a sautoire, with three tablespoonfuls of bechamel 
{No. 154), and a cupful of cream or milk. Season with a pinch of salt, 
half a pinch of pepper, and the third of a pinch of nutmeg. After tenmin- 



294 



THE rABLE. 



utes, place them in a hot dish, sprinkle a good pinch of chopped parsley 
over, and serve. 

928. Celery, with Gravy h la Bonne Femme.  Procure two bunches of 
fine Kalamazoo celery. If there should be four heads in each bunch, 
reserve two for table celery, as hors-d'cEuvres. Pare the outer branches, 
and clean thoroughly, cutting off the hard and green, leaves. Cut them 
into equal lengths, and blanch them in. boiling water for five minutes; 
drain, and add half a pint of broth (No. gg) to the water. Put the celery 
into a gill of white roux (No. 135) in a sautoire, and season with a pinch 
of salt, twelve whole peppers, and a third of a pinch of nutmeg. When 
the celery is sufficiently cooked, or after twenty-five minutes, finish 
the sauce with a gill of clear gravy or half an ounce of butter. Place the 
celery in a hot dish, pour the sauce over and serve. 

929. Celery with Cream.  Pare nicely four heads of fine celery, and 
cut it into pieces two inches in length ; wash thoroughly; remove from the 
water with the hands, and lay it on a napkin. By so doing no sand will 
adhere to the celery. Blanch it in boiling salted water for five minutes; 
remove, drain, and put it in a sautoire with-two ounces of butter and one 
tablespoonful of fecula; stir all well together, and moisten with half a 
pint of consommfe (No. 100). Cook and reduce the whole for twenty min- 
utes; when done, thicken with two beaten egg yolks diluted in three table- 
spoonfuls of cream, and add the third of a pinch of grated nutmeg. Serve 
garnished with six crofitons (No. 133). 

930. Celery h, la Moelle de Boenf.  Take six heads of fine celery, cut 
off the green leaves, pare neatly, wash thoroughly, drain, and tie each 
head near the end where the green part has been cut ^way. Blanch theni 
in salted boiling water for ten minutes, then remove; drain; and put thein 
in a sautoire, with a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 185). Cook for fifteen 
minutes. Arrange the heads on a hot dish ; remove the strings, and add 
to the sauce in the sautoire eighteen slices of marrow half an inch thick. 
Cook for one mitlute, being careful not to break the pieces of marrow; 
pour the sauce over the celery, and serve. 

931. Cardons a la Moelle.  Prepared exactly the same as in No. gso; 

932. Chicory, with Cream or White Sauce.  Clean and pick three large 
heads of chicory ; throw away all the outer green leaves ; wash them in 
two waters, drain, and blanch them in boiling, salted water. Remove 
them after ten minutes, and cool them in fresh water. Take them out, and 
press out the water thoroughly; then chop up the chicory, and place it 
with four ounces of butter in a saucepan, and cook a quarter of an hour, 
or until dry. Pour over it two glassfuls of cream or milk, a very little at 
a time, reduce, and grate in a third of a pinch of nutmeg; add a pinch of 
salt and half a pinch of pepper; stir well together, leave it on for five 
minutes, and serve with six heart-shaped croiitons (No. 133) around the 
dish. 

933. Chicory, flith Gravy.-^Take six large, fine, fresh heads of chicory, 
pare any outer leaves that may be damaged, leaving the root intact; wash 
well in two waters, remove, and put them to blanch for ten minutes in 



VEGETABLES. 295 



salted boiling water. Take them out, put them back into cold water, and 
let them cool off thoroughly. Drain neatly, and cut them in halves. Put 
a piece of lard skin at the bottom of a sautoire, add one carrot, one 
onion, both cut up, and a bouquet (No. 254). Place the chicory on top, 
season with half a pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and a third of a 
pinch of nutmeg, and cover with a buttered paper. Place the sautoire on 
the stove, and when the chicory is a golden color (not letting it take 
longer than ten minutes), moisten with half a pint of white broth (No. 
99). Put it in the oven for thirty minutes ; arrange the chicory on a hot 
dish, strain the sauce over, and serve. 

934. Chicory for Garnishing.  Prepare exactly as for No. 933, using 
it when needed. 

935. Cucnmbers ii la Ponlette.  Peel three fine, large cucumbers, 
blanch them in salted boiling water for five minutes, drain, and cut them 
into pieces one inch thick. Place them in a sautoire with one ounce of 
butter, strew over them ^pinch of very fine flour, stir well, and moisten 
with half a pint of white broth (No. 99), seasoning with half a pinch of 
salt, and the same of pepper. Stir well until it boils, and reduce the 
whole for fifteen minutes, adding a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a 
third of a pinch of nutmeg, two beaten egg yolks, and two tablespoonfuls 
of sweet cream. Cook again, without letting it come to a boil, for three 
minutes, and serve. 

936. Cncambers & la Bechamel.  Peel, pare nicely, and blanch six 
small, fine cucumbers in salted boiling water for five minutes. Remove, 
drain, and place them in a sautoire with half a pint of good bfechamel 
sauce (No. 154), half an ounce of butter, the third of a pinch of nutmeg, 
and three tablespoonfuls of milk. Cook all together for fifteen minutes, 
and pour the whole on a hot dish, and serv::. 

937. Stuffed Cucnmbers.  Peel six small cucumbers, pare them care- 
fully and shapely ; cut off the lower ends, and with a vegetable-spoon 
empty them, after extracting all the seeds. Place them in slightly acid- 
ulated water ; rinse them well, and parboil them in boiling water for three 
minutes. Remove them, and put in cold water to cool. Drain them, 
and fill the insides with a cooked forcemeat made of the breasts of chickens 
(No. 226). Line a sautoire with slices of pork-skin ; add the cucumbers, 
season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, a bouquet (No. 254), 
a glassful of white wine, two cloves, and a spoonful of dripping from any 
kind of roast. Cover with a piece of buttered paper, and place it in a 
slow oven to cook gently for twenty minutes. When done, transfer them 
carefully to a hot dish ; free them entirely from any fat, pour half a pint 
of Madeira sauce (No. 185) over them, and serve. 

938. Stewed Cucumbers for Oamishlng. Peel ana slice three large, 
fine cucumbers ; marinate them with a pinch of salt, half a pinch of pep- 
per, a tablespoonful of vinegar, and one sliced onion. Leave them in for 
one hour ; strain, and put the whole into a saucepan with a pint of Espagn- 
ole sauce (No. 151). Cook for twenty minutes ; strain through a fine 
sieve, and use for any garnishing required. 



296 THE TABLE. 



939. Spinach Blanched an IfatnreL  Take a peck of fresh, sound 

spinach, cut off the stalks, pare neatly, wash it twice in plenty of water, 
lifting it out with the hands. Place it in boiling salted water, and boil it 
for fifteen minutes. Remove, and drain it thoroughly ; , place it in cold 
.water again, and let it cool. Lift and drain, pressing it well ; lay it on a 
wooden board, and hash it very fine. 

940. Spinach k I'Anglaise.  Proceed exactly the same as for No. 939, 
but the spinach must not be hashed ; when well drained put it into a 
saucepan with one ounce of butter ; mix well for five minutes, and it will 
be ready for any use desired. 

941. Spinach k la Tieille Mode.  After the spinach is blanched and 
well chopped, as for No. 939, put it in a saucepan with an ounce of butter 
and the third of a pinch of grated nutmeg. Stir with a wooden spoon, 
and cook for five minutes, adding an ounce of butter kneaded with two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, .and half a 
pint of milk. Stir frequently, and cook for ^ten minutes ; then serve, 
garnished with six sippets of bread fried in butter. 

942. Spinach k la Maitre d'Hotel. After blanching the spinach as for 
No. 939j and chopping it very fine, put it dry into a saucepan. Place it 
to simmer on a moderate fire, seasoning with a pinch of salt, half a pinch 
of pepper, and the third of a pinch of grated nutmeg. When warm, add 
an ounce and a half of butter ; stir well, and let it heat for fifteen min- 
utes. Lay it on a hot dish, and decorate it with six bread croutons (No. 
133)1 then serve. 

943. Spinach, with GraTy.  When the spinach is blanched and well 
drained (No. 939), put it in a saucepan with half a cupful of veal-stock 
(either the reduced gravy of a fricandeau, or a glaze), cook for ten min- 
utes, and when ready to serve, add a good ounce of butter ; melt well 
together, and serve with six pieces of fried bread. 

944. Spinach, with Sugar.  Season the blanched spinach (No. 939) 
with a very little salt, three lumps of sugar, a little crushed lemon-peel, 
and two pulverized macaroons. Cook slowly all together for ten min- 
utes, and serve surrounded by six lady-fingers (No. 1231). 

945. String Beans, Blanched.  Take two quarts of fresh, tender 
.string beans ; break off the tops and bottoms carefully ; string both sides, 
and pare both edges neatly ; wash them well in cold water, lift them, and 
drain. Place them in boiling salted water, and cook for twenty-five min- 
.utes. Drain again, and return them to cold water, letting them get thor- 
oughly cool. Lift them out, and dry. They are now ready to use when 
required, for salads or any other purpose. 

94G. String Beans, with Cream.  Place the blanched beans (No. 945) 
in a saucepan with an ounce of butter, and cook on the stove for five min- 
utes, tossing them well. Season with half a pinch of salt, the same of 
pepper, and add half a bunch of chives and two sprigs of parsley tied 
together. Pour in half a cupful of fresh cream or milk, diluted with two 
egg yolks. Heat well, without boiling, for five minutes. Then serve as a 
kors-d' asuvre or entremet. Sugar may be added with advantage, if desired. 



VEGE TABLES. 297 



947. String Beans aii Blanc.  String the fresh string beans (No. 945); 
if too large, cut them lengthwise, and cook them in water with salt and 
butter; drain, and place them in a saucepan with one ounce of butter; add 
a teaspoonful of parsley and the same of chopped chives. Cook for iive 
minutes, and when done, thicken the gravy with half a cupful of cream, 
two egg yolks, and the juice of a lemon. Mix well together for two min- 
utes, and serve. 

948. String Beans 2k I'Anglaise.  Blanch and cook the beans as for 
No. 945, keep them warm, and of a light green color; place them in a hot 
dish, pour over them a gill of good melted butter, sprinkle a little chopped 
parsley on top, and serve very hot. 

949. string Beans il la Bretonne.  Cut a medium-sized onion in dice- 
shaped pieces, and place them in a saucepan with an ounce and a half of 
butter; let it get a good golden color on the stove for five minutes; then 
add a tablespoonful of flour. Stir well, and moisten it with a pint of white 
broth (No. 99). Stir well again, until it comes to a boil; season with half 
a pinch each of salt and pepper. Add the cooked string beans, with a 
clove of crushed garlic, to the sauce; cook for ten minutes; place in a hot 
dish; sprinkle a teaspoonful of chopped parsley over it, and serve. 

950. Beans Panaches.  Place half a pint of cooked string beans (No. 
945) and the same quantity of flageolets or Lima beans in a sautoire with 
an ounce and a half of good butter; season with half a pinch each of salt 
and pepper; toss them well while cooking for five minutes. Place them 
in a hot dish; sprinkle a light pinch of chopped parsley over them, and 
send to the table. 

951. Bed Beans il la Bonrguignonne.  Take <i quart of sound red 
beans; pick out all the small stones that are likely to be mixed with them; 
wash them thoroughly, lay them in plenty of cold water, and let them soak 
for six hours. Drain, and put them in a saucepan, covering them with 
fresh water, adding an ounce of butter, a bouquet (No. 254), and a 
medium-sized onion with two cloves stuck in. Boil for twenty minutes, 
stirring in a good glassful of red wine; season with a pinch of salt and half 
a pinch of pepper, and let it cook again for forty-five minutes. Remove, 
take out the bouquet and onion, and place the beans in a hot, deep dish; 
decorate with six small glazed onions (No. 972) around the dish, and serve. 

Dried red beans, white beans, Lima beans, split driei peas, lentils, or 
any other kind of dried beans, should always be soaked six hours in fresh 
water before using them. 

952. Fresh Lima Beans.  Take a quart of fresh, shelled Lima beans, 
or three quarts of unshelled; parboil them in salted water for about 
twenty minutes, then take them from the fire, drain, and let cool in fresh 
water. Drain again, and place them in a sautoire with an ounce and a 
half of good butter, seasoning with half a pinch each of salt and pepper, 
and the third of a pinch of nutmeg. Cook for five minutes, tossing well; 
then moisten with.two tablespoonfuls of cream, adding a pinch of chopped 
parsley; mix well together, and serve. 

953. Staffed Lettuce.  Pick, clean, pare nicely, and wash thoroughly 



298 THE TABLE. 



six lettuce-heads; parboil them for five minutes, drain them well, and fill 
the insides with godiveau (No. 221) or sausage forcemeat (No. 220). 1 Tie 
each head, and put them in a sautoire, laying them down carefully, and 
adding a gill of Madeira sauce (No. 185), and a gill of white broth (No. 
gg). Season with half a pinch each of salt and pepper, cover with buttered 
paper, and cook in the oven for fifteen minutes. Arrange on a hot dish, 
untie, pour the sauce over, and serve. 

954. Macaroni il la Creme.  Boil for three-quarters of an hour three- 
quarters of a pound of Italian macaroni in plenty of salted water, adding 
a small piece of butter (half an ounce), and an onion stuck with two 
cloves. Drain well, and put it back intd a saucepan with a third of a 
pound of butter, a third of a pound of grated Swiss cheese, the same 
quantity of grated Parmesan cheese, a third of a pinch of nutmeg, and 
a pinch of pepper. Moisten with half a pint of white broth (No. gg) and 
four tablespoonf uls of cream. Cook all together for five minutes , stirring 
well, and when the macaroni becomes ropy, dish it up, and serve. 

955. Macaroni au Gratin.  After the macaroni is prepared as for No. 
g54, place it in a baking-dish, sprinkle over it a little brfead-crumbs and 
grated cheese ; poiir over it a little clarified butter, and place it in the 
baking oven for ten minutes, ox until it assumes a golden color; then 
serve. 

956. Macaroni k I'ltalienne.  Prepare three-quarters of a pound of 
sound Italian macaroni as for No. g54 ; place it in a saucepan with a gill 
of tomato sauce (No. 205), a gill of Madeira sauce (No. 185), and a quarter 
of a pound of grated Parmesan cheese ; season with half a pinch of pep- 
per and the third of a pinch of nutmeg ; then let cook slowly for ten min- 
utes, tossing frequently. Arrange on a hot dish, and serve with some 
grated cheese, separately. 

957. Macaroni h. la Napolltalnc.  Boil the macaroni in salt and water 
as for No. g54 ; drain, place it in a saucepan, and add half a pint of good 
Espagnole sauce (No. 151), half a pint of tomato sauce (No. 205), a quar- 
ter of a pound of grated cheese, two truflSes, six mushrooms, and half an 
ounce of cooked, smoked beef-tongue, all cut up in dice-shaped pieces. 
Cook together on a brisk stove for ten minutes, tossing them well mean- 
while, and serve. 

958. Macaroni k la Milanaise.  Prepare exactly the same as for No. 
g57, cutting the truffles, mushrooms, and beef-tongue julienne-shaped. 

959. Spaglietti k la Ifapolitaine.  Boil three-quarters of a pound of 
sound, fine spaghetti as for the macaroni in No. g54; drain, and put it back 
into a saucepan with half a pint of tomato sauce (No. 205), half a pint of 
Espagnole (No. 151), six mushrooihs, two truffles, and a small piece of 
cooked, smoked, red beef-tongue, all cut up dice-shaped. Season with 
half a pinch of pepper and the third of a pinch of nutmeg, adding a quarter of 
a pound of grated Parmesan cheese. Cook for ten minutes, tossing well, 
and serve with a little cheese, separately. 

960. Spaglietti h. I'liaUenne.  Place the spaghetti in a saucepan as 
for No. gsg ; add a pint of tomato sauce (No. 205), and a quarter of a 



VEGETABLES. 299 



pound of grated Parmesan cheese ; season with half a pinch of pepper 
and a third of a pinch of nutmeg, and cook for ten minutes, tossing well, 
and serving as in No. 959. 

961. Spaghetti au Gratin.  Prepare three-quarters of a pound of 
boiled spaghetti as in No. 959, place it in a saucepan, moistening with half 
a pint of Allemande sauce (No. 210), and half a pint of b6chamel sauce (No. 
154). Season with one pinch of pepper, and the third <5f a pinch of nut- 
meg, adding a quarter of a pound of grated cheese. Toss well, put it in a 
baking-dish, sprinkle the top with grated cheese and fresh bread-crumbs; 
pour over it a very little clarified butter, and place it in the oven. When 
of a fine golden color,[after about fifteen minutes, take from the oven, and 
serve. 

962. Boiled Green Com.  Pare off the outer leaves and silk of six 
young and tender ears of com, and place them in a saucepan, covering 
them with water. Add half a cupful of milk, half an ounce of butter, and 
a handful of salt. Cook for twenty minutes, and serve on a folded 
napkin. 

963. Com Sant^ il la CrSme.  Take six ears of cooked green corn, 
prepared as for No. 962, drain, cut off the corn from the cobs with a sharp 
knife, being very careful that none of the cob adheres to the corn. Place 
it in a sautoire with a gill of hot bfechamel sauce (No. 154), half a cupful of 
cream, and half an ounce of butter ; season with half a pinch each of salt 
sfnd pepper, and the third of a pinch of nutmeg. Cook gently on the stove 
for five minutes, place in a hot dish, and serve. , 

964. Com Sattt6 an Benrre.  Proceed as for No. 963, adding one ounce 
of butter, but suppressing the other ingredients. Season the same, but 
cook only for eight minutes, tossing it well. Place in a hot dish, and 
serve. 

965. Com Fritters.  Prepare four young, tender, good-sized, fresh 
ears of green corn exactly as for No. 963; after draining it carefully, place 
it in a china bowl; season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pep- 
per, and add two fresh eggs, u. quarter of a pound of well-sifted flour, 
and half a pint of cold milt Do not beat the mixture, but stir it 
vigorously with a wooden spoon for five minutes, and it will be suffi- 
ciently firm. Butter well a frying-pan, take a kitchen ladle that contains 
the equivalent of a gill, and with this put the preparation into the pan in 
twelve parts; be careful they do not touch one another, and let them get 
a good golden color on each side for four minutes. Dress them on a 
foldejl napkin, and serve. 

966. Barley Fritters. The same as in No. 965, substituting boiled 
barley for cofn. 

967. Glazed Tumj^, vrith Gravy. Pare, and cut pear-shaped, twelve 
equal-sized, small white turnips; parboil them for five minutes, and drain 
them when done. Butter the bottom of a sautoire capable of holding theiii, 
one beside the other, and let them get a golden color, adding half a pint of 
powdered sugar. Moisten with half a pint of white broth (No. 99), half a 
pinch of salt, and add a very small stick of cinnamon. Cover with a but- 



300 



THE TABLE. 



tered paper cut the shape of the sautoire, and place it in the oven to cook for 
twenty minutes. When the turnips are cooked, lift off the paper. Place 
the turnips on a hot dish, and reduce the gravy to a glaze for six minutes. 
Arrange them nicely on a dish, pour half a gill of good broth (No. 59) 
into the saucepan to loosen the glaie, remove the cinnamon, and throw 
the sauce over the turnips. 

J)68. Onions, with Cream.  Peel twelve medium-sized, sound onions ; 
pare the roots without cutting them, and place them in a saucepan ; cover 
with salted water, add a bouquet (No. 254), and cook for forty-five min- 
utes. Lift them from the saucepan, and lay them on a dish ; cover them 
with half a pint of cream sauce (No. '181), mixed with two tablespoonfuls 
of the broth they were cooked in, and serve. 

969. Fried Onions.  Peel, pare, and slice round-shaped, four medium- 
sized onions. Lay them first in milk, then in flour, and fry them in very 
hot fat for eight minutes. Lift them up and lay them on a cloth to dry. 
Serve on a dish with a folded napkin, with a little fried parsley. 

970. Stntfed Onions.  Peel six medium-sized Spanish onions ; empty 
out the centres with a vegetable-scoop ; parboil them for three, minutes, 
and turn them upside down on a cloth to drain. Fill the insides with 
sausage forcemeat (No. 220). Line the bottom of a sautoire with a piece 
of lard skin, and one carrot and one onion, both cut up ; lay the onions 
n top, and moisten with half a pint of broth (No. 99). Cover with a but- 
tered paper ; then put it in the oven to glaze for forty minutes, taking 
care to baste frequently. Place them in a hot dish ; strain the gravy pver 
them, and serve. 

971. Minceil Onions.  Peel and pare three medium-sized onions ; cut 
them in two, and mince them into fine slices. Place them in a sautoire, 
with half an ounce of butter, and let them get a good golden color on the 
stove for ten minutes, tossing them briskly. Place them in a bowl, and 
use when required. 

972. Glazed Onions for Garnislling:.  Select one quart of small onions; 
peel the sides only, and pare the roots neatly, being careful not to cut 
them. Place them in a sautoire with half an ounce of clarified butter, 
and sprinkle them with half a pinch of powdered sugar. Glaze them in a 
slow oven fpr fifteen minutes ; place them in a stone jar, and use for gar- 
nishing when required. 

973. Sorrel au Maigre.  Pick off the stems from half a peck of 
sorrel ; wash it in several waters, drain, and chop up with a head of 
well-cleansed lettuce. Add half a bunch of chervil, and chop all together 
very fine. Place all in a saucepan, stir well together on the hot stove 
for three minutes, and then place it in the oven until the vegetables are 
well dissolved ; then add an ounce and a half of butter, and stir again for 
about ten minutes, or until the sorrel is reduced to a pulp. Season with 
a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, and pour into it a thickening of 
two egg yolks and half a cupful of cream ; stir well, without boiling, and 
serve. . 

974. Sorrel au Gras.  Dissolve the same quantity of sorrel as in No, 



VEGETABLES. 3OI 

973, adding enough butter to form it into a perfect pulp (one ounce and 
a half will answer); stir it until it begins to bubble ; then moisten it with 
half -a. pint of gravy or good stock, roast-beef gravy, or reduced broth. 
Cook it for five minutes, and use this pur6e as a sauce for various meats. 

975. Stuffed Peppers.  Fry for one minute only, six medium-sized 
green peppers in very hot fat ; drain and skin them properly, and cut a. 
round piece off the bottom to use for a cover. Remove the insides, and 
fill them with a good sausage forcemeat (No. 220); put on the round cover 
previously cut off, and lay them on an oiled baking-tin. Moisten the pep- 
pers lightly with sweet oil, and place them in a slow oven to cook for fif- 
teen minutes; then arrange them on a hot dish, and serve with a gill of 
demi-glace sauce (No. 185). 

976. Green Peas il I'Ancienue Mode.  Take three quarts of unshelled, 
young, tender green peas ; shell them carefully, and keep them wrapped 
up in a wet napkin until needed. Clean, drain, and tie up a lettuce-head; 
put it in a saucepan with the peas ; season with a pinch of salt ; cover 
with a glassful of water, and add a quarter of a pound of very good but- 
ter. After cooking for a quarter of an hour, remove the lettuce, and when 
ready to serve, thicken the peas with three spoonfuls of cream, diluted 
with one egg yolk, adding half a pinch of white pepper, and a spoonful of 
powdered sugar. Let all thicken together for five minutes, and serve 
immediately in a tureen. , 

977. Green Peas a la Fran<;aise.  Shell carefully three quarts of fine, 
young, tender, fresh green peas, and place them in a saucepan with one 
ounce of butter and half a cupful of water. Knead together with a 
wooden spoon ; strain off the water, and add a bouquet (No. 254), one 

. small onion, a well-cleansed lettuce-heart, half a pinch of salt, and a tea- 
spoonful of powdered sugar. Cover the saucepan, and cook very slowly 
for half an hour ; remove the bouquet and onion ; lay the lettuce upon a 
dish, incorporate into the peas half an ounce of fresh- butter, and cook 
until it thickens, which will require at least five minutes. Pour the peas 
dome-formed over the lettuce, and send to the table. 

978. Green Peas Si I'Anglaise.  Procure the same quantity of green 
peas as for No. 977; put them in a saucepan, and cover them with boiling 
water. Add a handful of salt, and boil quickly, without covering, for fifteen 
minutes. Skim the water as soon as the scum rises. When done, strain 
them through a colander, return them to the saucepan, and toss them well, 
adding an ounce and a half of fresh butter. Dish them in a vegetable- 
dish, place another half ounce of butter in the middle, and serve. 

979. Green Peas k la Bonrgeoise. Shell three quarts of tender green 
peas; put them in a saucepan, and toss the peas quickly in a gill of light 
roux (No. 135); moisten with a pint of boiling water, adding half a pinch 
each of salt and pepper, a bouquet (No. 254), and a raw lettuce-heart. 
Reduce it for twenty minutes, or until all the juice has evaporated; then 
add two raw egg yolks well beaten, with three tablespoonfuls of sweet 
cream. Stir quickly for four minutes, without allowing k to boil, and 
then serve, removing the bouquet. 



302 THE TABLE. 



980. Green Peas, with Cream.  Put one ounce of butter in a saucepan 
with one tablespoonful of flour kneaded well together. Dissolve it; then 
add the shelled peas as for No. 977, a bouquet (No. 254), a quarter of a 
bunch of chives-, a pinch of salt, and half a pinch of pepper. Cook in 
their own juice for twenty minutes, then take the saucepan from off the 
fire. Pour the gravy from the peas into another vessel, add to it half a 
cupful of cream and a teaspoonful of powdered sugar; pour this sauce 
over the peas, and heat up once again without boiling, for two minutes, 
before serving. 

981. Green Peas, with Bacon.  Brown in a saucepan half an ounce of 
butter with two ounces of small, dice-shaped pieces of bacon, and when of 
a good golden color, take them out, and put a spoonful of flour into the 
fat to make a roux. Moisten with a pint of white broth (No. gg); replace 
the bacon, add the raw shelled peas, as for No. 977, one whole onion, a 
bouquet (No. 254), aiid half a pinch of pepper. Cover, and let cook on 
the corner of the stove for thirty minutes; place in a hot, deep dish, and 
serve. :;  

 982. Potatoes, Boiled Plain.  Take twelve medium-sized, fine, sound 
potatoes; wash them thoroughly, peel off a piece of the skin, about haMan 
inch wide, aroun^ each potato, to ensure mealiness, and lay" them in a 
saucepan, covering them with cold water, and adding half a handful of 
salt; place the 4id on, and cook for forty-five minutes. Drain, lay a nap- 
kin on a hot dish, in which you envelop the potatoes, and serve. 

983. Broiled Potatoes.  Peel six medium-sized, sound, cooked pota- 
toes; cut them in halves; lay them on a dish, and season them with a 
pinch of salt. Pour two tablespoonfuls of melted butter over them, and 
roll them well in it. Arrange them on a double broiler, and broil them 
on a moderate fire for three minutes on each side. Place them in a hot 
dish, with a folded napkin, and serve. 

984. Potatoes- ^ la G6neTroise  Peel, wash, and drain four medium- 
sized, sound potatoes; cut them into julienne-shaped pieces, and wash and 
drain them again. Season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper. 
Butter lightly six ta'rtlet-molds with clarified butter; cover the bottoms 
with grated Parmesan cheese; arrange a layer of potatoes on top, sprinkle 
more cheese over them, and continue until all are filled, finishing by 
sprinkling cheese over the surface and dropping a little clarified butter 
over all. Set them on a very hot stove for two minutes; then place in a 
hot oven, and bake them for twenty-five minutes. Unmold, and place 
them in a hot dish, with a folded napkin, and serve. 

985. Potatoes, Jllaitre d'Hotel,  Take eight medium-sized potatoes, 
boiled as for No. g82; peel them, cut them into slices, and place them in 
a saucepan, with an ounce of butter and a pinch of chopped parsley, and 
season with half a pinch each of salt and pepper, the third of a pinch of 
nutmeg, and the juice of half a lemon. Warm all together, toss well, and 
add half a cupful of cream; heat slightly once more, and serve. 

986. Potatoes, Parisienne.  Take six good-sized, well-cleansed pota- 
toes ; with a round vegetable-spoon cut out the Parisian potatoes ; then put 



VEGETABLES. 



303 



them in fresh water; wash well, and drain. Melt an ounce of butter in a 
sautoire, throw in the potatoes, and season with half a pinch of salt. 
Place the sautoire in the oven; cook for twenty minutes, and serve on a 
hot dish with a folded napkin. 

987. Potiltoes \ Pijiglaise il Cru. Wash well six medium-sized, 
sound potatoes; cut them into quarters, pare them neatly, clove-garlic- 
shaped; wash again, drain, and place them in a saucepan. Cover with 
water, throw in a heavy pinch of salt, put the lid on, and cook for twenty 
minutes. Drain, and put them in a saucepan, with an ounce of butter, a 
pinch of chopped parsley, heat slowly for five minutes, toss gently, and 
serve. 

988. Potatoes Si I'Anglaise.  Wash well six good-sized potatoes; boil 
them in salted water for forty-five minutes; peel, and cut them each into 
quarters. Melt an ounce of butter in a saucepan; add the sliced potatoes, 
half a pinch of salt, and the third of a pinch of pepper. Cook them on a 
very slow fire for five minutes, tossing them well, and serve on a very hot 
dish, sprinkling a little chopped parsley over them. 

989. Potatoes, with Bacon.  Cut one ounce of bacon or pork into 
small pieces; put them in a saucepan, with half an ounce of butter; cook 
for five minutes; add a spoonful of flour; stir, and brown well for four 
minutes. Moisten with a pint of white broth (No. 99), and cook for five 
minutes longer. Put in eight well-peeled, washed, and sliced raw pota- 
toes; season with half a pinch of pepper and the third of a pinch of nut- 
meg; lay the lid on, and cook for twenty-five minutes. Then skim off the 
fat, and serve in a hot, deep dish. 

990. Potatoes k I'ltallenne,  Boil eight medium-sied potatoes in 
boiling water, as for No. 982 ; peel, put them in a saucepan, and mash 
them. Add a piece of butter of one ounce, and a piece of fresh bread the 
size of a French roll, suppressing the crust, and soaking it in milk. Add 
two more tablespoonfuls of milk, in order to form a pliable paste, three 
fresh egg yolks, and the whites of the three beaten to a froth ; season 
with half a pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and the third of a pinch 
of nutmeg. Mix well together, and pile it high on a baking-dish ; pour 
over it a little melted butter; sprinkle a little Parmesan cheese over; place 
it in the oven, and after ten minutes, when of a good golden color, serve. 

991. Potatoes k la Lyonaalse. Cut eight potatoes, boiled, as for No. 
982, into round slices ; lay them in a frying-pan with an ounce and a half 
of butter, and the round slices of a previously fried onion, and season 
with half a pinch each of salt and pepper. Cook well together for six 
minutes, until well browned ; toss them well, and serve with a pinch of 
chopped parsley sprinkled over the whole. 

992. Stuffed Potatoes.  Wash and peel about six large potatoes ; cut 
them, lengthwise, in two, and scoop out the centres carefully with a knife 
or spoon. Fill the cavities with a sausage forcemeat (No. 220), letting it 
bulge out a little on the top ; butter a baking-pan, arrange the potatoes 
on it, and cook in a slow oven for half aji hour, or until nicely browned , 
then serve. 



504 1'HJ^ TABLE. 



993. Fried Potatoes.  Peel and wash six large potatoes, cut them up 
into fine slices, a quarter of an inch in thickness ; plunge them into very 
hot,, clarified beef suet or fat, and cook slowly. When they are soft, lift 
them out with a. skimmer (it generally takes ten minutes to cook them) ; 
heat the fat again to boiling-point, and put the potatoes back. Smooth 
them down with a skimmer, and after two minutes they will swell up 
considerably ; lift them out with the skimmer, drain, sprinkle a pinch of 
salt over, and serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin. These potatoes 
answer for garnishing chops and other meats. 

994. Potatoes Sant^es au Benrre. Peel and clean eighteen small, 
round, raw potatoes, new ones if possible ; place two ounces of butter in 
a saucepan ; place it on a hot fire, adding the potatoes ; cook them until 
they are a, golden color, which will take fifteen minutes, then drain. 
Sprinkle over them a pinch of table-salt, and arrange them on a dish 
without any further seasoning than a littla chopped parsley ; then 
serve. 

995. Potatoes Sautees.  Take eight good-sized boiled and peeled 
potatoes (No. 982); cut them in slices a quarter of an inch in thickness; 
place them in a frying-pan with an ounce and a. half of good butter. 
Season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper ; toss well for eight 
mihutes, dress on a very hot dish, and serve with a little parsley sprinkled 
over. 

996. Potato Balls.  Peel, clean neatly, and boil in salted water for 
thirty minutes, eight good-sized, sound, round, yellow potatoes ; drain 
and return them to the same pan, and mash them well, adding two egg 
yolks, and the whites beaten to a froth, three tablespoonfuls of cream, a 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley, very little chives, half a pinch of salt, and 
the third of a pinch of nutmeg. Mix well together for two minutes, and 
dip about half a tablespoonful at a time into frying batter (No. 1185). 
Slide them into very hot fat, and leave them in for three minutes ; this 
swells them, and forms them into a species of fritters. Place in a very 
hot dish with a folded napkin, and serve. 

997. Potato Croquettes and ({aenelles.  Peel, wash, and drain nicely 
eight medium-sized mealy potatoes ; cut them in quarters, put them in a 
saucepan, cover them with water, add a pinch of salt, cook for thirty min- 
utes, and drain. Lay them in a mortar with an ounce of fresh butter, 
pound them well, and add three raw egg yolks. Season with half a pinch 
each of salt and pepper and the third of a pinch of nutmeg ; mix well, and 
then divide into twelve parts, shaping each one like a cork, or any other 
shape desired. Dip them separately into beaten egg, and roll them in 
fresh bread-crumbs ; fry a golden color for three minutes, and serve on a 
dish with a folded napkin. 

998. Mashed Potatoes.  Peel, wash, drain, and cut into quarters eight 
good-sized potatoes ; put them in a sautoire, cover with water, add a good 
pinch of salt, and boil for thirty minutes. Drain, rub them through a 
pur6e strainer, and put them in a" saucepan with an ounce of butter, and 
half a pinch each of salt and white pepper. Stir well, adding half a cup- 



VEGETABLES. 305 



ful of hot milk, until it becomes of a good consistency. Serve, garnished 
with six pieces of bread fried in butter. 

999. Potatoes ii I'Hollandaise. After boiling eight good-sized, pota- 
toes as for No. 982, peel, and cut them into quarters | put them in a sau- 
toire with an ounce of butter and half a pinch of chopped parsley ; season 
with half a pinch each of salt and pepper, toss them gently, and warm 
them slightly for five minutes. Place in a hot dish, and serve. 

Sweet potatoes d. I'Hollandaise are prepared the same way. 

1000. Potatoes k la Gastronome.  Peel, clean, and with a No. 3 tube 
cut twelve medium-sized potatoes into inch-and-a-half-long pieces. Place 
them in a saucepan ; cover with water, add a pinch of salt, and cook for 
twenty-five minutes. Drain, and place them in a hot dish ; pour a gill of 
hot Pferigueux sauce (No. 191) over them, and serve. 

1001. Potatoes k la Bignon.  "Prepare twelve potatoes as for No. 982; 
empty them with a potato-scoop, leaving the bottoms uncut : blanch them 
in boiling water for two minutes ; drain, and fill them with sausage force- 
meat (No. 220). Lay them in d. buttered sautoire ; place it in the oven, 
and cook for twenty minutes. Use for any garnishing desired. . 

1002. Hashed Potatoes, Sant^es. Hash eight medium-sized, cold, 
boiled potatoes ; place an ounce and a. half of good butter in a frying- 
pan, add the potatoes, season with half a pinch each of salt and pepper, 
and toss them well in the pan for two minutes. Give them the shape of 
an omelet, and let them take a golden color, which will require five min- 
utes. With a spoon take up all the butter which lies at the bottom of the 
pan ; slide the potatoes carefully on a hot dish, and serve. 

1003. Hashed Potatoes, with Cream.  Hash eight cold, boiled pota- 
toes, and place them in a sautoire ; add half a cupful of cream and half an 
ounce of butter ; season with half a pinch each of salt and pepper, and the 
third of a pinch of ndtmeg ; stir well with a wooden spoon for five min- 
utes, until well heated, and serve. 

1004. Hashed Potatoes, with Cream an Gratin.  Prepare the potatoes 
as for No. loo^ ; place them in a dish (a silver dish preferred); sprinkle 
over them two tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, and two table- 
spoonfuls of fresh bread-crumbs ; spread well over them a piece of butter 
the size of a nut; then place the dish in the oven. After ten minutes, 
when a good golden color, serve. 

1005. Potatoes en Surprise.  Prepare some potatoes as for croquettes 
(No. 997); form them into twelve balls the size of a good-sized egg ; scoop 
out the centres, and fill in with a salpicon (No. 256). Close the opening 
with a little more potato ; dip them in beaten egg, then in fresh bread- 
crumbs, and fry them in very hot fat for three minutes. Lift, drain, and 
serve them on a hot dish with a folded napkin. 

1006. Potatoes k la Duchesse.  Place some croquette preparation (No. 
997) in a bag, and squeeze it upon a buttered baking-sheet, forming it 
into any shape required, and with a light hair brush cover the surface 
with a beaten ^^%. Brown lightly in the oven for eight minutes, and 
serve for various garnishings. 

20 



306 THE TABLE. 



Balls can also be formed about the size of an egg ; spread a little flour 
on the table ; place the balls on top, and flatten them, shaping them 
nicely ; cover the surface with a beaten egg ; brown lightly in the oven 
on a buttered baking-sheet for eight minutes, and serve. 

1007. Potatoes k la Rice. Peel, wash, and drain eight medium-sized 
potatoes. Cut them into half-an-inch-square pieces ; place them in a 
frying-pan with an ounce and a half of butter; season with a pinch of salt, 
toss well, and let them get a golden color (fifteen minutes will suffice). 
Drain the butter from the bottom of the pan, ani place the potatoes in a 
hot dish; sprinkle a pinch of chopped parsley over, and serve. 

1008. Potatoes k la Windsor.  Peel, and clean nicely, twelve large 
potatoes; cut them into balls with a Parisian potato-scoop, then place them 
in a saucepan, covering them with water containing apinchof salt. Cook 
for fifteen minutes ; then strain them and place them in another saucepan 
with an ounce of fresh butter and a pinch of chopped parsley. Warm 
them well for five minutes, and add the juice of half a lemon before 
serving. 

1009. Potatoes, Chateau.  Cut six mediiim-sized potatoes into quarters, 
and pare them like cloves of garlic; wash them well, and drain. Fry 
them slowly in moderately heated fat for ten minutes; lift, drain thor- 
oughly, and put them in a sautoire with half an ounce of butter. Season 
with half a pinch of salt, heat well for two minutes, and serve. 

1010. Potatoes, Souffl(SeS.  Peel eight good, mealy potatoes, and cut 
them into even pieces a quarter of an inch in thickness, shaping them as 
oval as possible. Fry them in moderately heated fat for eight minutes; 
then lift- them out, and. lay them aside for a few moments; plunge them 
into boiling hot fat, and the potatoes will swell considerably. Drain, and 
serve them on a dish with a folded napkin. 

Sweet potatoes soufBees are prepared the same way. 
N. B.  When cutting the potatoes for a souffl^e, a continuous, sharp, 
and rapid cut should be made, so as to have them to perfection. 

1011. Potatoes, Saratoga.  P^el and clean six medium^sized potatoes; 
cut them with a sharp Saratoga potato-knife into thin slices; place them in 
cold water, wash thoroughly, drain, and plunge them into very hot fat for 
eight minutes. Take them out, drain thoroughly, and sprinkle over them 
half a pinch of salt. Serve them on a dish with a folded napkin. 

1012. Potatoes k la Hanna.  Peel, wash, and drain six medium-sized 
potatoes; cut them into as thin slices as possible; then wash them well 
again. Take a flat mold large enough to contain the potatoes, butter it 
well; put in a layer of potatoes, then a very light layer of grated cheese; 
season with a very little salt, and the same of pepper. Cover with another 
layer of potatoes, season again the .same as before (the whole not to exceed 
half a pinch of each); then spread half an ounce of butter over them. 
Place the mold in the oven, and cook for thirty minutes; remove, turn it 
upside down on a hot dish, unmold, and serve. 

1013. Potatoes,' Jlllieime.  Peel and clean six medium-sized potatoes; 
cut them into square pieces two inches long by the third of an inch wide; 



VEGETABLES. 307 



wash well, and drain; place them in very hot fat for six minutes, then lift 
them out, and lay them on a cloth to drain. Sprinkle half a pinch of salt 
over, and serve them on a dish with a folded napkin. 

1014. PotatoCo en Faille (Straw). Prepare the same as in No. 1013, 
cutting a little thinner. 

1015. Bice, Fl^ Boiled.  Clean and wash neatly a quarter of a pound 
of Italian rice ; place it in a saucepan with a pint and a half of cold water 
and a pin h of salt ; put the lid on, and boil for twenty-two minutes. 
Pour through a colander, being careful to let it drain thoroughly without 
crushing the rice, otherwise it will be spoiled. When well dried, return 
it to the saucepan, put the lid on, and leave it on the corner of the stove 
to dry gradually for five or six minutes. It will now be ready to use as 
required. 

1016. Rice ^ la Ristori.  ^Wash well and drain a quarter of a pound of 
good Italian rice; shred two ounces of bacon into small pieces, and 
place them in a saucepan with a medium-sized, chopped-up, raw cabbage, 
letting them steam for thirty minutes. Add a pinch of salt, half a pinch 
of pepper, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley ; put in the rice, and 
moisten with half a pint of white broth (No. 99). Cook for fully a quarter 
of an hour longer, and serve with grated Parmesan cheese sprinkled 
over it. 

1017. Risotto & la Milanalse.  Chop rather fine one good-sized, very 
sound, peeled onion. Melt two ounces of very good butter in a sauce- 
pan on a very brisk fire ; add the onions , brown them for six or seven 
minutes, or until they have obtained a good golden color ; then add ten 
ounces of well-picked Italian rice (a heaped cupful), with two good^sized 

'chopped truffles ; stir well with the spatula without ceasing for one and 
a half minutes, then add one quart of boiling and strained white broth (No. 
99), lightly stir once only, and cook for fourteen minutes. Add six fine 
chopped mushrooms, and little by little, at intervals, another quart of 
boiling white broth  stirring almost constantly with the wooden spatula 
while cooking, very rapidly, for ten minutes more. Season with a heavy 
half-teaspoonful of salt, a light saltspoonful of white pepper, adding one 
and a half ounces of grated Swiss cheese, and a heaped teaspoonful of 
Spanish branch saffron, diluted in two tablespoonfuls of hot white broth, 
and strained. Cook for three or four minutes longer, stirring continually 
meanwhile ; then pour it into a hot soup-tureen, and send to the table 
with a little grated Swiss cheese, separate. A little beef-marrow can be 
added to advantage, by making a small cavity in the centre, while yet 
in the pan, one minute before the time to serve, and plunging into it one 
tablespoonful of marrow. 

1018. Oyster-plant Sant^ an Benrre. Scrape nicely a large bunch of 
fine oyster-plant; plunge it into cold water containing two tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar, so as to prevent it from turning black. Take it from the water, 
drain, and cut it into two-inch-long pieces. Place them in a saucepan, 
with two tablespoonfuls of vinegar ^nd two tablespoonfuls of flour; mix 
well; cover with plenty of cold water and a handful of salt; put the lid 



3o8 



THE TABLE. 



on, and let them boil slowly for forty minutes. Then drain, and return 
them to a sautoire, with an ounce and a half of the best butter procurable; 
season with half a pinch of pepper, the juice of half a lemon, and a tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley. Heat well for five minutes, tossing occa- 
sionally; then place them in a hot, deep dish, and serve. 

1019. Oyster-plant il la Poulette.  Scrape nicely a good-sized bunch 
of fine, fresh oyster-plant; plunge it at once into acidulated water, and 
when well washed, drain, and cut it into two- inch pieces. Place them in 
a saucepan, and boil them in plenty of water, adding two pinches of salt, 
two tablespoOnfuls of vinegar, and the same quantity of diluted flour. 
After forty minutes, or as soon as they bend to the finger, they are done. 
Lift them out, drain them well, and serve with a pint of hot poulette sauce 
(No. 5g8) poured over them. 

1020. Oyster-plant Sant k la CrSme.  To be cooked the same as 
for No. loig; but after draining them, place them in a sautoire with a gill 
of bfichamel sauce (No. 154) and a gill of sweet cream. Season with half 
a pinch of salt, a quarter of a pinch of pepper, and the third of a pinch of 
nutmeg. Let all heat well together for five minutes, stirring lightly with 
a wooden spoon, and serve in a hot, deep dish. 

1021. Fried Oyster-plant.  Cook a good bunch of oyster-plant as for 
No. loig, and, when done, put it in a dish, and season with half a pinch 
each of salt and pepper, and a tablespoonful of vinegar. Dip it well in a 
good fritter batter (No. iigo), and fry it in very hot fat for five minutes, 
separating the pieces with a spoon. Lift them up with a skimmer, drain 
on a cloth, sprinkle a very little salt over them, and serve on a folded 
napkin, decorating with a little fried parsley. 

1022. Succotash.  Place six medium-sized, freshly cooked, and scraped 
ears of green corn (a can of canned corn will answer the purpose) in a sauce- 
pan, with half a pint of boiled Lima beans, adding agood-sized piece of butter 
weighing about an ounce, a pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, the third 
of a pinch of grated nutmeg, and half a pint of milk. Heat it well for five 
minutes, add two tablespoonfuls of good, hot b6chamel (No. 154); stir 
thoroughly, and serve. 

1023. Stuffed Tomatoes.  Wash and dry well six fine, sound red 
tomatoes. Cut the top of each up, without detaching, so that it will serve 
as a cover. Scoop out the inside of each with a vegetable-scoop; and 
place on a plate for further action. Season the inside of the six emptied 
tomatoes with one pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, equally divided. 
Chop very fine one medium-sized, sound, peeled onion; place it in a sauce- 
pan with half an ounce of butter; and cook for three minutes on a brisk 
fire, being careful not to let get brown. Add six chopped mushrooms and 
one ounce of sausage-meat. Season with one pinch of salt and half a pinch 
of pepper; cook for three minutes, stirring once in a while. Add now the 
tomatoes which were scooped out, with half a cupful of fresh bread-crumbs 
and a teaspoonful of fresh chopped parsley. Mix well together, and cook 
for two minutes longer, or until it comes to a boil; then place in a bowl to 
cool. Stuff the emptied tomatoes with the above preparation, close down 



VEGETABLES. 3O9 

the covers, gently lay them on a tin plate (dish), cover them with a but- 
tered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for eighteen minutes, and serve. 

Stuffed tomatoes are served as a garnishing in various ways. 

For egg-plants, the same stuffing is used, but instead of tomatoes, use 
the scooped out egg-plant. 

Green peppers the same, using half a very finely chopped-up green 
pepper in place of the tomatoes. 

1024. Staffed Tomatoes k la Beine.  Prepare six tomatoes exactly the 
same as in No. 1023, substituting chicken forcemeat (No. 226) for the 
sausage meat, and pouring a gill of hot Madeira sauce (No. 185) on a hot 
dish, and dressing the tomatoes over. 

1025. Broiled Tomatoes,  Take six good -sized, firm, red, fresh 
tomatoes; pare the underparts in case anything adheres, wipe them nicely, 
and slit them in halves. Lay them on a dish; season with a good pinch 
of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and a tablespoonful of sweet oil; mix well 
together; keep the tomatoes in as good shape as when cut, then arrange 
them in a double broiler. Put them on a moderate fire, and cook for eight 
minutes on each side. Place in a hot dish; spread a gill of maitre d'hotel 
butter (No. 145) over them, and serve. 

1026. Tomatoes h, la Bock.  ^Wipe neatly and peel eight fine, sound, 
fresh tomatoes; cut each one into six equal-sized pieces, and place them 
in a saucepan with two ounces of fresh butter, seasoning with a pinch of 
salt, half a pinch of pepper, and the third of a pinch of nutmeg. Cover 
the pan, and place it on the hot stove to cook for fifteen minutes. Take 
from off the fire, pour the tomatoes into a deep, hot vegetable-dish, and 
send them to the table very hot. 

1027. Stewed Tomatoes.  Plunge six good-sized, fresh, sound tomatoes 
into boiling water for half a minute; drain, nicely peel them, cut each one 
into six pieces ; put them into a saucepan with an ounce and a half of good 
butter, season with half a pinch each of salt and pepper, and the third of 
a pinch of nutmeg. Cook slowly for twenty minutes, and add a very little 
powdered sugar (half a teaspoonful will be sufficient). Stir well, and 
cook for two minutes longer; then place in a hot, deep dish, and serve. 

1028. Boasted Tomatoes.  Plunge in boiling water for half a minute 
six good-sized red, sound tomatoes; drain, and peel them neatly, then cut 
away the tops without detaching them entirely, and remove the seeds with 
a teaspoon. Divide an ounce of good butter into six equal parts, and put 
a piece into each tomato, seasoning with a light saltspoonful of salt, and 
half the quantity of pepper. Close the tops, and lay them in a buttered 
baking-dish, moistening each tomato with a very little sweet oil. Put 
them in a hot oven, and bake for twelve minutes. Remove, and with a 
cake-turner dress them on a hot dish, and serve. 

1029. Tomatoes & la Marseillaise.  Take six good-sized, firm, red 
tomatoes ; wipe, and cut them in halves through the sides. Place half a 
gill of sweet oil in a frying-pan ; let it heat well ; lay in it the tomatoes 
on the sides which were cut, and cook briskly for one minute. Butter 
well a tin baking-dish, and lay the tomatoes in this on the uncooked side, 



3IO THE TABLE. 



and season with half a pinch each of salt and pepper. Make a stuffing 
with one shallot, finely chopped, two cloves of crushed garlic, two hard- 
boiled egg yolks, a teaspoonful of chopped chives, the same of parsley, 
two medium-sized, finely chopped anchovies, and an ounce of butter. Mix 
well together in a bowl, and cover the tops of the tomatoes with the stuff- 
ing, dividing it equally. Sprinkle a little fresh bread-crumbs over them ; 
drip three or four drops of clarified butter over each tomato ; then place 
them in a very hot oven for eight minutes. Place them neatly on a hot 
dish, and serve.' 

1030. Okras, Plain Boiled.  Take twenty-four medium-sized, sound 
okras, and wash them well in cold, water. Drain thoroughly, and pare 
both ends. Have a saucepan containing salted boiling water, into which 
plunge the okras, and] let] them cook for fifteen minutes. Lift them out 
with a skimmer, and lay them on a cloth to drain. Use the boiled okras 
for saut6ing, salad, or any other purpose desired. 

1031. Okras, Sautes k la Creole.  Prepare twenty-four okras as for 
No. 1030. Place in a sautoire one ounce of good butter, one medium- 
sized minced onion, and a medium-sized, minced green pepper. Place on 
the stove for six minutes, until it is of a golden color, and add two raw, 
peeled tomatoes cut into pieces, three tablespoonfuls of Espagnole (No. 
151), a pinch of salt, the third of a pinch of pepper, and one crushed clove 
of garlic. Add the okras, put the lid on, and cook slowjy fpr fifteen min- 
utes. Place in a. hot, deep dish, sprinkle over them a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley, and serve. , 

1032. Mac^doine of Vegetables.  Cut a small, raw carrot with a vege- 
table-scoop ; put it into salted boiling water, and cook for fifteen minutes; 
repeat with a small, raw turnip, cooking each separately ; drain, and pl^ce 
them in a saucepan with half a gill of cooked peas, the same quantity of 
cooked half-inch lengths of string beans, two tablespoonfuls of cooked 
flageolets, and a small piece of cauliflower, if at hand. Moisten with half 
a pint of hot bechamel (No. 154), and season with half a pinch each of 
salt and pepper, and the third of a pinch of nutmeg. Let it simmer well 
for ten minutes, and use when required.- 

1033. Jardiniere of Vegetables. Prepare exactly as in No. 1032, sub- 
stituting half a pint of hot Madeira sauce (No. 185) for the b6chamel. 

1034. Boiled Hominy.  ^Wash a quart of very white hominy in fresh 
water ; drain, put in a saucepan with a quart of cold water, and place it 
on the fire, adding a pinch of salt. Boil for thirty minutes, stirring it 
well, and serve. 

1035. Pried Hominy.  After preparing the hominy as for No. 1034, 
put it to cool, and cut it into six slices. Dip each slice in beaten egg, 
roll them in fresh bread-crumbs, and fry in very hot fat until of a good 
golden color, for four minutes. Serve on a folded napkin, or use for 
garnishing when required. 

A pinch of salt represents 205 grains, or a tablespoonful. 

Half a pinch of pepper represents 38 grains, or a teaspoonful. 

A third of a pinch of nutmeg represents 13 grains, or half a "teaspoonful. 



SALADS. 3 I I 



SALADS. 



1036. Salad h. I'ltalieime.  Pare well a good-sized carrot and a good- 
sized turnip ; cut them with a vegetable-scoop, and cook them in separate 
salted waters ; the carrot fifteen minutes, and the turnip ten. Drain, let 
cool, then place them in a salad-bowl, dome-shaped. Cut two good-sized 
truffles into julienne-shaped pieces ; keep thera apart, and cut up six 
mushrooms the same way, also the breast of a cooked, medium-sized 
chicken, cut likewise. Cover the vegetables with a cluster of the truffles, 
the same of the mushrooms, and repeat with the chicken, keeping each 
article separate ; form a small cavity in the centre of the dome, pour into 
it a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, a tablespoonful of vinegar, one table- 
spoonful of sweet oil, a. pinch of salt, and half a pinch of pepper. Cover 
the cavity with a piece of cooked cauliflower, or Brussels-sprouts, or in 
default of both, cooked asparagus-tops will answer the purpose ; send to 
the table, and mix well before serving it to the guests. 

1037. Anchoyy Salad.  Have eighteen bottled anchovies (or the same 
quantity of Norwegian anchovies if possible), soak them in cold water for 
two hours, so they are thoroughly, unsalted, then drain them in a cloth, 
and remove the bones. Clean and pare a small head of lettuce , cut it into 
small pieces, and put it in a salad-bowl, covering it with two tablespoon- 
fuls of Tartare sauce (No. 207). Decorate with the anchovies, two hard- 
boiled eggs cut in quarters, twelve capers, six stoned olives, and a small, 
cooked, sliced beet-root ; season with half a pinch of pepper and one 
tablespoonful of vinegar. When ready to serve mix well together. 

1038. Barbe de Capncine.  Take two bunches of clear, white, fresh 
barbe de capucine ; clean, and wipe them carefully and thoroughly, but 
do not wash the salad, as it loses its taste^ and renders it too soft to use ; 
cut it into three shreds, and place it in a salad-bowl. Mix well, in a 
wooden salad-spoon, two spoonfuls of vinegar, half a pinch of salt, and 
the third of a pinch of pepper, and pour it over the salad, then add one 
spoonful of oil, mix well, and serve immediately. 

1039. Beef Salad.  Take one pound of lean, boiled, cold beef, the 
rump-part in preference ; suppress all the fat, then cut it into pieces an 
inch and a half in length, as thinly as possible. Place the pieces in a bowl, 
season with a pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and two medium-sized, 
cooked, and sliced potatoes, also a pinch of parsley, two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, and the same of sweet oil. Mix all well together, then arrange 
in a serving salad-bowl ; decorate with six medium-sized pickles or beets, 
and serve. 

lOlO. Cauliflower Salad.  Tal:e a medium-sized head of cooked cauli- 



312 THE TABLE, 



flower ; pare off the root), and detach it into equal-sized flowerets ; place 
these in a salad-bowl, seasoning with a pinch of salt, half a pinch of pep- 
per, and sprinkle over a pinch of chopped parsley ; add three tablespoon- 
fuls of vinegai:, two of good oil, and mix all well together with a wooden 
spoon, then serve. 

1041. Celery Salad.  If the heads of celery be large and white, use 
two; if they should be small, use three. Pare off the green stalks, trim 
the roots nicely, and cut it into short shreds ; wash thoroughly in cold 
water, lift it up with the hands, and drain in a cloth. When well drained, 
place the celery in a salad-bowl, and season with a pinch of salt, half a 
pinch of pepper, *and one and ^ half wooden salad-spoonfuls of vinegar, 
also the same quantity of oil. Mix well, and serve. 

1042. Celery Salad, Mayonnaise Dressing. Prepare the celery exactly 
the same as for No. 1041 ; and when in the salad-bowl, season with half a 
pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and three tablespoonfuls of mayon- 
naise dressing (No. 206). Mix well just before serving. 

1043. Chapon, for Chicory and Escarole Salad. Cut a thin crusty off 
a French loaf of bread, two inches long by one inch square, sprinkle over 
it a very little salt, then take a, good-sized clove of sound garlic ; rub it 
over both sides of the bread-crust, reject the peel which adheres, and lay 
the crust at the bottom of the salad-bowl ; place the salad over, and mix 
thoroughly together, serving immediately. 

1044. Chicken Salad.  Take a young, tender chicken of two and a 
half pounds ; boil it in the soujp-stock for one hour, or should it be a 
fowl, it will take from half to three-quarters of an hour longer ; when 
cooked, let it get thoroughly cold. Bone the chicken, cut it up into small 
pieces, and put them into a deep dish ; season with a pinch of salt, half a 
pinch of pepper, one tablespoonful of vinegar, and six leaves of chopped 
lettuce, or a few leaves of the white of celery in preference, cut up. Mix 
well, place it in a salad-bowl, and cover with half a cupful of mayonnaise 
dressing (No. 206); decorate the top with a chopped, hard-boiled egg, 
a tablespponful of capers, twelve stoned olives, quarters of two hard- 
boiled eggs, and six small, white lettuce leaves around the dish, then 
serve. 

1045. Chicory Salad, Plain.  Procure two medium-sized heads of 
white, fine, fresh chicory ; pare off the green leaves, and cut away the 
root. Wash thoroughly, drain well in a salad-shaker or a linen napkin, 
then place it in a salad-bowl ; season with half a pinch of salt and the 
third of a pinch of pepper, diluted in a salad-spoonful of vinegar, and add 
one and a half salad-spoonfuls of sweet oil. Mix thoroughly together, and 
send to the table. ' 

1046. Chicory Salad au Chapon.  Prepare the salad exactly the same 
as for the above (No. 1045), only adding a chapon (No. 1043). 

1047. Crab Salad.  Take twelve hard-shelled, live crabs; boil them in 
salted water, with half a cupful of vinegar, for twenty minutes; then drain 
and shell them. Pare off the gills; put a fifiger in the centre, to prevent 
the sand getting in the cavity; wash thoroughly and quickly under the 



SALADS. 313 

faucet, then pick the meat from the shell; put ilfin a. salad-bowl and pro- 
ceed the same as for the salmon salad (No. 1066). 

1048. Dandelion Salad, Plain.  Procure a quart of very fresh, white 
dandelion; pare the roots and stale leaves, if any; then wash thoroughly 
in two different waters; drain nicely on a cloth, and place in a salad-bowl. 
Dilute a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper in a salad-spoonful of vin- 
egar, adding one and a half spoonfuls of sweet oil; mix thoroughly to- 
gether, and serve. 

1049. Dandelion Salad, with Eggs.  Proceed the same as for the 
above (No. 1048), only adding, when serving, two hard-boiled eggs cut 
in quarters. 

1050. Dandelion and Beet-root Salad.  Take half the quantity of dan- 
delion salad as for the plain (No. 1048); put it in a salad-bowl, adding two 
medium-sized, cooked beet-roots (No. 919); cut into thin slices, and sea- 
son it exactly the same as for No. 1049. 

1051. Dandelion k la Contoise.  Pare and clean a quart of fine white 
dandelion; wash well in two-different waters; then drain in a cloth, and 
place it in a salad-bowl. Season with a third of a pinch of salt and half 
a pinch of pepper; cut two ounces of bacon in dice-shaped pieces, put 
them in a frying-pan, place it on the stove, and let them get a good 
golden color, for about five minutes ; put them into the salad ; then place 
two tablespoonfuls of vinegar in the pan, and let it heat for half a minute; 
pour it overall, mix well together and serve. 

1052. Doucette Salad, Plain.  Take a quart of very fresh doucette, 
pare off the outer stale leaves, if any; also the roots, and wash well in 
two waters; drain in a napkin, and then place it in a serving salad-bowl. 
Season with one pinch of salt, and a half pinch of pepper diluted in a 
wooden salad-spoonful of vinegar; also with one and a half spoonfuls of 
sjveet oil. Mix well together when ready to serve, but not before. 

1053. Doucette Salad, with Beet-roots.  Use a pint of doucette only, 
and three medium-sized cooked beet-roots, cut in slices; place them all in 
a salad-bowl, and season the same as for the above (No. 1052). 

1054. Doucette Salad, with Hard-boiled Eggs. Proceed the same as 
for doucette salad (No. 1052), only when ready to serve, decorate with two 
hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters. 

1055. Escarole Salad.  Have two heads of fine, white escarole; pare 
off the green leaves and cores. If the esparole be tolerably clean, wipe it 
carefully without washing it, as it should not be washed unless plenty of 
earth adheres to it. Place it in a salad-bowl, and season with half a pinch 
of salt and the third of a pinch of pepper, mixed in a wooden salad-spoonful 
of tarragon-vinegar, adding one and a half spoonfuls of oil. Mix well just 
before serving. 

1056. Lamb-tongue Salad. Have six cooked, pickled lamb's tongues;' 
pare them neatly, and cut them into very thin slices; lay them in a dish, 
adding two cooked and sliced potatoes, a pinch of salt, half a pinch of 
pepper, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and the same quantity of sweet 
oil. Mix the whole well together, then dress it in abowl, sprinkle a little 



314 



THE TABLE. 



chopped parsley over, and decorate with a few small lettuce-leaves. Send 
to the table. * 

1057. Lettuce Salad, Plain.  Take two fine, white heads of lettuce; 
pare off the outer green leaves and stems ; cut the leaves in two, wash 
well in cold water, drain thoroughly in a wire basket, then place it in a 
salad-bowl, with the hearts pn top. Mix half a pinch of salt and the 
third of a pinch of pepper in one salad-spoonful of vinegar, adding, one 
and a half salad-spoonfuls of good sweet oil; pour this seasoning over the 
lettuce, mix all well together, and send to the table. 

Lettuce salad should never be dressed longer than five minutes before 
the time to serve it. 

1058. Lettuce Salad with Hard-boiled E^gs.  Dress a lettuce salad 
the same as for the above (No. 1057), and just before serving add two 
hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters. 

1059. Lettuce Salad mth Cream. -^Prepare a lettuce salad the same 
as for No. 1057, substituting three tablespoonfuls of sweet cream for the 
oil. 

1060. Lettuce and Tomato Salad.  Take a white head of lettuce, pare 
off the outer green leaves and core, wash, drain in a wire basket, then cut 
the leaves in tw.o, and put them in a. bowl. Have two fine, firm, peeled 
red tomatoes, prepared as for No. 1070, cut them into thin slices, and 
place them over the lettuce, seasoning as follows: Mix a pinch of salt 
and half a pinch of pepper in a wooden salad-spoonful of vinegar; add a 
spoonful and a half of oil, mix well, and serve. 

1061. Lobster Salad.  Take three pounds of boiled lobster; shell, and 
cut the meat into small pieces; lay them in a deep dish, seasoning with a 
pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and a tablespoonful of vinegar, adding a 
few branches of the white of celery , likewise cut up. Mix well together, then 
transfer it to a salad-bowl, and pour over half a cupful of good mayon- 
naise dressing (No, 206), decorate with two hard-boiled eggs cut into 
quarters, six leaves of lettuce, twelve stoned olives, a tablespoonful of 
capers, and a little of the lobster coral, hashed well. Decorate nicely, 
according to taste, and serve. 

1062. Lobster Salad k la Plummer.  Take two fine, freshly boiled, 
medium-sized lobsters; cut them in two, and pick out all the meat from 
the shell, carefully abstracting the gall. Cut the meat into small, equal- 
sized, square pieces, and place them in a salad-bowl; shell three hard- 
boiled eggs, lay them on a plate, and with a knife chop them up as 
thoroughly as hashed potatoes ; then add this to the lobster, also two finely 
chopped shallots, two teaspoonfuls of fi-eshly chopped chives, and one. 
and a half teaspoonfuls of finely chopped parsley. Take half a head of 
good and well-cleaned lettuce, chop it up very fine, add it to the lobster; 
then season with a pinch and a half of salt, a light pinch of fresh and finely 
crushed white pepper  two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls 
of good sweet oil, and three tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise sauce (No. 206). 
Gently but thoroughly mix the whole together, then wipe well the edges 
of the salad-bowl with a napkin, and send this delicious salad to the table. 



SALADS. 315 



1063. Salad Mae^dnilie.  Have a medium-sized carrot and turnip; 
IJeel, and wash them well, then cut them with a vegetable-scoop; put them 
into separate boiling salted waters, and cook the carrot fifteen minutes, 
and the turnip ten. Drain, and let thoroughly cool; place them in a 
salad-bowl with three tablespoonfuls of cooked peas, the same quantity of 
string beans cut into small pieces, a. pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, 
two tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, and one and a half tablespoonfuls of vine- 
gar. Mix all thoroughly together. If there be any cooked cauliflower 
on hand, use it for decorating the bowl, or a. few asparagus-tops or 
Brussels-sprouts will answer. Send to the table at once. 

1064. Romame Salad.  Take two good-sized hearts of fine romaine; 
remove the outer greens; wipe, washing it carefully. Drain, then place 
it in a salad-bowl, sprinkling over a teaspoonful of chopped chives, half a 
teaspoonful of chopped chervil, the same of tarragon, and season with one 
pinch of salt, and half a pinch of pepper, diluted in a wooden salad-spoon- 
ful of vinegar, and one and a half spoonfuls of sweet oil. Mix thoroughly 
together, and serve immediately. 

1065. Russian Salad.  Cut up separately, in small dice-shaped pieces, 
one ounce of cooked roast beef, same of cooked ham, same of cooked beef- 
tongue, same of cooked chicken, same of lean leg. of cooked mutton, and 
two truffles cut into very small dice-shaped pieces. Put them in a salad- 
bowl, separating each kind by six boned anchovies; then pour a. table- 
spoonful of Tartare sauce (No. 207) in the centre, covering the sauce with 
two chopped leaves of lettuce. Send it as it is to the table; for it should 
be mixed together just before serving only. 

1066. Salmon Salad.  Procure a piece of good salmon, plunge it into 
cold, salted water; add half a cupful of vinegar, one sliced carrot, one 
sliced onion, a bouquet (No. 254), and let cook for thirty minutes; drain, 
put aside to cool ; then pare off the skin, and bone the salmon completely. 
When done, tear or break it into small pieces. Place these in a bowl, 
seasoning with a pinch of salt, a pinch of pepper, three tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, and a pinch of chopped parsley. 
Mix all well together; then decorate the salad-bowl with six small lettuce- 
leaves, six stoned olives, twelve capers, and two hard-boiled eggs cut in 
quarters. Send to the table. 

1067. Shrimp Salad.  Have a quart, or two pint boxes, of boiled and 
skinned shrimps, and proceed the ^me as for lobster salad (No. 1061). 

1068. String-bean Salad.  Take a quart of cooked string beans, and 
prepare it exactly the same as the cauliflower salad (No. 1040). 

1069. SnMoise Salad.  Cut two ounces of cooked beef-tongue into 
small pieces; cut two cooked potatoes the same; also half a peeled apple, 
half a cooked beet-root, and half a cooked carrot. Place these in a bowl, 
adding the fillets of a boned herring cut in small pieces, and season with 
half a pinch each of salt and pepper, a teaspoonful of diluted mustard, one 
tablespoonful of vinegar, and one and a half tablespoonfuls of oil.  Mix 
all well together, then transfer to a serving salad-bowl, sprinkle oyer a 
pinch of chopped parsley, and serve. 



3l6 THE TABLE. 



1070. Tomato Salad, French Dressing.  Take six fine, firm, red toma- 
toes; wipe tliem neatly, and plunge them into boiling water for one min- 
ute; drain in a cloth, remove the skins, pare off the stem side, let get cool, 
and then cut them into very thin slices; or, if preferred, into quarters, 
keeping them in a bowl, so that the juice be not wasted. Season with a 
pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, a wooden salad-spoonful of vinegar, 
and the same quantity of oil. Mix thoroughly together, and serve as cold 
as possible. A teaspoonful of chopped chives may be added, if desired, 
which will give a delicious flavor. 

1071. Tomato SaJlad, Mayonnaise Dressing. Prepare six tomatoes, 
the same as for the above (No. 1070), and when sliced, or quartered, in the 
salad-bowl, season with a pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and two 
good tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise dressing (No. 206); mix well, and 
serve very cold. 

1072. Watercress Salad.  Procure three bunches of sound, fresh 
watercress ; clean, and pare off the stalks, wash well, then dry in a cloth, 
place it in a salad-bowl, seasoning with half a pinch of salt, just a little 
pepper, and two wooden salad-spoonfuls of vinegar ; mix well, and serve. 
Watercress salad does not require any oil. 

1073. Potato Salad.  Peel ten medium-sized, sound, freshly cooked 
pctatoes ; cut them into small slices, lay them in a salad-bowl, and add a 
finely chopped onion and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Season with 
a pinch and a half of salt, one pinch of pepper, half a gill of vinegar, and 
three tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, then mix thoroughly and gently with a 
spoon and fork, without breaking the potatoes. Wipe the bowl neatly 
with a napkin, and send the salad to the table. 

1074. Herring Salad.  Take three medium-sized smoked herrings, 
lay them on the corner of the stove for half a minute on each side, then 
tear off the skin, cut off the heads, and split them in two ; remove the 
bones, and cut them up into small square pieces. Place them in a salad- 
bowl with half a hashed onion, two hard-boiled eggs, cut in pieces, 
a cold boiled potato cut the same, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 
Season with half a pinch of salt, one pinch of pepper, three tablespoon- 
fuls of vinegar, and two of oil. Mix well together, and decorate with a 
small, cooked beet-root cut in slices, also twelve capers; then serve. 

1073. Japanese Salad.  Mince three medium-sized truffles very fine, 
also two large, cold, boiled potatoes ; put the whole into a bowl, and 
season with half a pinch each of salt and pepper, and the third of a pinch 
of nutmeg ; pour half a glassful of champagne over all, and let rest for 
two hours, then add eighteen whole cooked mussels (No. 379), a tea- 
spoonful of chopped chives, and the same quantity of chopped parsley. 
Mix all well together, then dress the salad into a bowl, decorating it with 
six small, white lettuce-leaves and six fillets of anchovies; then serve. 

A pinch of salt represents 205 grains, or a tablespoonful. 

Half a pinch of pepper represents 38 grains', or a teaspoonful. 

A third of a pinch of nutmeg represents 13 grains, or half a teaspoonful. 



DESSERTS. 317 



DKSSERTS: 

PASTRY, JELLIES, ICES, PRESERVES, ETC. 



1076. Fenilletagej or Puff Paste,  Have ready one pound of flour, one 
pound of fresh butter, one pint of ice-water, and a saltspoonful of salt. 
If the butter be salted instead of fresh, no salt is necessary, but wash the 
butter well before using it. Put the flour on the table, make a hollow 
space in the centre, then put in it one ounce of the butter, adding the pint 
of ice-water and the salt, and mix the whole well together, incorporating 
it gradually. Put it aside in a cool place for five minutes. Have ready 
the remaining fifteen ounces of butter, which must be very firm ; sprinkle 
the space of a square foot of the table with a very little flour, place the 
dough on it, then lengthen and widen with a wooden roller to the thick- 
ness of half an inch, and lay the fifteen ounces of butter in one lump in 
the centre. Fold over the four edges so as to enclose it, then flatten 
again lightly with the roller until it forms a piece two inches thick, and 
then put it away to cool for ten minutes. Roll it again lengthwise,. fold 
it in four, and let it rest for another five minutes ; then repeat the same 
twice more, rolling it each time in a contrary direction. After five min- 
utes it will be ready for use. This feuilletage, or puff paste, if put away 
carefully in a cool place, will keep for three days, and can be used for the 
following purposes : vol-au-vents of chickens, oysters, clams, shrimps, 
lobsters, codfish, crabs, and crawfish; also for making chicken patties, 
bouchfees ^ la reine, all kinds of tarts, allumettes, mille-feuilles, chaus- 
sons, turnovers, petits pat6s k la religieuse, etc., etc. 

1077. Paste for Pies.  Sift on a. table one pound of flour ; make a 
hollow space in the centre, pour into it a pint of cold water, two ounces 
of butter, and half a saltspoonful of salt; then, with the hand , knead the 
ingredients well together for two minutes, and gradually and slowly incor- 
porate the flour with the rest for four minutes. Lay the paste on a dish, and 
put it to rest in a cool place lor three minutes. Have ready six ounces of 
well-washed butter in one lump, as for feuilletage (No. 1076); return the 
paste to the table, flatten it slightly, then put the lump of butter in the 
centre, fold over the edges, so as to enclose the butter, then roll it out 
lengthwise with the pastry roller, and refold the paste into three folds. 
Let it rest again in a cool place for three minutes, then roll it again, fold 
it as before, and set it in the ice-box for five minutes ; the paste will now 
be ready to use, and by keeping it in the ice-box it will remain in good 
condition for three days. 

1078. Pate-^Foncer, Foimdation Paste. Sift one pound of flour on 



3l8 THE TABLE. 



the table, make a hollow in the centre, and pour into it half a pound oi 
well-washed butter, a saltspoonful of salt, and a gill of cold water. Knead 
well the salt, buttei:, and water, using the hand, for two minutes, then 
incorporate the flour gradually, which will' take three minutes more, and 
knead sharply with the hands. Detach it from the table, and roll it into 
a ball, then press it again on the table in different directions for two 
minutes; remove again from the table. Flour the table slightly, lay the 
paste over, and with the fingers of the right hand press down the paste in 
the centre, and with the left bring up the edges all around to the centre, 
repeat this three times, and when finished the paste must have its original 
shape ; lay it on a dish, cover with a towel, and set it in a. cool place to 
rest for twenty minutes. 

1079. How to Make a Pastry-bag, for General Use.  Cut a piece of 
white duck-cloth as follows: twenty-four inches wide at the top, twenty 
inches deep, and three inches at the lower end. Fold, and sew up length- 
wise, so as to make a perfect cornet-bag. Hem the top and the bottom, 
and the pastry bag will then be ready for use. 

The accompanying design will show how it should be made. 




PASTRY-BAG. 



This pastry-bag is essential and useful for kitchen and pastry use, being 
both facile and economical, but care must be taken to wash it thoroughly, 
and immediately after using it, and to let it dry perfectly, otherwise it 
will soon become useless. 

1080. How to Clean and Prepare Sultana Currants and Raisins for 
Pastry.  To avoid the trouble of preparing them each time they .are 
needed, it were better to clean many at a time, for they will keep in 
perfect condition for five or six months, if put away in a well-closed , tin 
box. Procure ten pounds of currants or Sultana raisins, lay them on a 
table, and should they be damp, dredge a little fiour over to prevent them 
adhering to the hands. Rub them thoroughly, then take a wire sieve, 
No. 3 (or as fine a one as will prevent them passing through), place the 



DESSEJiTS. 3ig 



currants on it, and shake them well for two or three minutes, so that they 
be perfectly free from flour and stalks. Lay the sieve containing the 
currants in a large dish-pan, filling it to the level of the sieve with hot 
water, then, with a skimmer, stir them, so that they get washed thoroughly 
for at least five minutes. Lift up the sieve, and let them drain in the 
same for three minutes. Cover an iron oven-pan with a sheet of brown 

 paper, pour the currants on it, spreading them out evenly, and set it in a 
very slow oven for ten minutes; remove, and lay them aside in the warm- 
est spot on the kitchen shelf, and leave them to dry thoroughly for at least 
two-days. If in the country, the pan can be left out in the sun during the 
day. When dry, lay them on the table, and should any more foreign 
matter be found among them, pick it out carefully with the fingers, and 
examine thera well to see whether they be free of stones, stalks, stems, 
sand, &c. When finished, put them away in a closed tin box, and they 
will then be ready for use. 

lOSl. How to Clean Malag'a Raisins.  Have as many Malaga raisins 
as deemed necessary, but it were better to purchase five pounds at a 
time. Lay the raisins on a table, have a bowl of cold water on the right 
hand, antf the raisins in front ; pick off the dry stalks adhering to them, 
then, either using a small knife or the fingers, pick out the seeds, taking 
care to wet the fingers in the bowl of water, so as to prevent them stick- 
ing while seeding them. Close up again, giving them their original form; 
when finished, put them in a tin can, cover well, and place in a moderate 
temperature for use when required. Raisins prepared in this way will 
surely keep six months. 

1082. Mince Pie.  Put into a vessel two ounces of currants, prepared 
as for No. 1080, two ounces of Sultana, and three ounces of Malaga raisins, 
as for No. 1081, one ounce of finely chopped citron, two ounces of well- 
chopped, cold, boiled beef, auid two ounces of beef-suet, also chopped 
very fine. Mix the whole well together for five minutes, then add 
one ounce of powdered sugar, a saltspoonful of salt, one drachm 
of ground allspice, half a drachm of ground cloves, half a, drachm 
of ground cinnamon, and mix together for one minute. Peel, core, 
and chop up very fine three large, sound apples, add them to the prepa- 
ration, then pour in half a gill each of brandy and sherry wine, mixing 
again for three minutes. Take half a pound of pie-paste as for No. 1077, 
cut out a piece of three ounces, roll it round-shaped, ten inches in diameter, 
and lightly butter a pie-plate nine and a half inches in diameter, Arrange 
the paste over, and pour the preparation in the centre, flattening it evenly, 
and leaving an inch space clear around the edge of the plate ; take the 
remaining five ounces of paste, roll it out round-shaped, the same as 
before, fold it in two, and, with a knife, make incisions in the centre, of half 
an inch each. Moisten lightly the edge of the plate with a little beaten 
egg, then cover with the paste, pressing down with the hand all around- 

. the edge, so as to inclose the preparation entirely, then moisten the surface 
slightly with the beaten egg. Place in a moderate oven, and let bake for 
fifty minutes; remove it to the oven-door, sprinkle plenty of powdered 



3 20 THE TABLE. 



sugar over, return it to the oven, closing the door for two minutes, so 
that the sugar melts entirely, then slide it carefully onto a dessert-dish, 
and serve either hot or cold. 

1083. Apple Pie.  Peel, core, and slice four medium-sized, fine, sound 
apples; put them into a vessel, and add three ounces of powdered sugar 
and a saltspoonful of ground cinnamon.' Have a plate covered as for the 
above (No 1082); arrange the apples on top, cover, and finish exactly the 
same as for the mince pie. Serve cold. 

1084. Pear Pie.  Peel and slice six medium-sized, fine, sound, pears; 
put them into a vessel with three ounces of powdered sugar; put this over 
a lined plate, and proceed exactly the sanie as for mince pie (No. 1082). 

1085. Blinbarb Pie.  Pare off the leaves, and peel the stalks neatly 
from two bunches of fine rhubarb, cut them into small pieces about half 
an inch long, kndi put them in a vessel with three ounces of powdered 
sugar; mix well; lay them on the pie-plate, cover, and bake the same as 
for mince pie (No. 1082). 

1086. Lemon Pie.^Take one and a half pounds of apple sauce (No. 
1328), put it in a vessel, adding one ounce of powdered sugar^ arid one 
ounce of corn-starch; grate fn the peel of a medium-sized lemon, squeezing 
In the juice of two others, and- mix the whole well together with a spatula 
for three minutes. Pour the preparation over a lined plate, as for mince 
pie (No. 1082), cover, and finish exactly the same. 

1087. Pineapple Pie.  Procure amedium-sized, fine, sound, pineapple; 
pare, peel, and slice it into fine slices, laying them in a vessel, and mixing 
in three ounces of powdered sugar. Have a pie-plate lined with paste, as 
for mince pie (No. 1082), spread over one tablespoonful of apple sauce 
(No. 1328); arrange the pineapple nicely on top, then take three ounces of 
pie-paste, roll it out lengthwise, two feet long, and fold it carefully in 
two, so as to make a long narrow strip; roll it slightly again until about 
thirty inches long by one wide, paring off both sides evenly, so as to have 
it exactly the one inch in width. Moisten the edge of the pie-plate with 
beaten egg, and arrange the strip around, fastening the two ends together, 
one over the other; glaze the surface of the strip with beaten egg, then 
place the pie in a moderate oven, and let bake for fifty minutes. Remove 
to the door, dredge the pie well with powdered sugar, return to the oven 

 for two minutes to allow the sugar to melt, then spread evenly over the 
top two ounces of apple jelly (No. 1327), and send- to the table. 

1088. Pear Pie, Open.  Peel and slice six medium-sized fine and 
sound pears; place them in a vessel with three ounces of powdered sugar, 
mix well, and proceed exactly the same as for pineapple pie (No. 1087). 

1089. Huckleberry Pie.  Put in a vessel one pint and a half of well- 
picked and cleaned huckleberries, add two ounces of powdered sugar, mix 
well, and proceed the same as for pineapple pie (No. 1087). 

1090. EYesh Currant Pie.  Put in a vessel a pint and a half 'of well- 
picked and cleaned currants, with four ounces of powdeVed sugar, and 
proceed exactly the same as for pineapple pie (No. 1087). 

1091. Gooseberry Pie.  To be prepared the same as the above (No. 



DESSERTS. ^2 1 



logo), only using one pint and a half of gooseberries instead of the 
currants. 

1092. Peach Pie.  Wipe neatly and slice eight fine, sound, medium- 
sized peaches; put them in a vessel with three ounces of powdered sugar, 
and proceed exactly the same as for pineapple pie (No. 1087). 

1093. Green-gage Pie.  Select one dozen ripe, sound, green-gages; cut 
them in two, remove the stones, and put them in a vessel with three 
ounces of powdered sugar. Finish the Same as for pineapple pie (No. 
1087). 

1094. Plnm Pie. To be prepared as for the above (No. 1093), substi- 
tuting one dozen plums for the green-gages. 

1095. Strawberry Pie.  Have a pie-plate lined as for "pineapple 
pie (No. 1087), lay in three-quarters of a pound of apple sauce (No. 1328), 
arrange the strip around, then place it in the oven for thirty minutes only; 
remove to the oven door, dredge profusely the strip with powdered sugar, 
return to the oven, close the door, and leave it for two minutes to let the 
sugar melt. Take it out, and let it get thoroughly cold, then, with a 
spoon, remove half of the apple sauce, and fill the interior with a pint and 
a half of well-picked and cleaned strawberries, mixed with two ounces of 
povWered sugar. Spread two ounces of apple jelly (No. 1327) evenly 
over the strawberries, and serve. 

1096. Raspberry Pie.  Have the pie prepared exactly the same as for 
strawberry pie (No. 1095), and fill it with a pint and a half of well-picked 
and cleaned raspberries mixed with two ounces of powdered sugar, and 
spread evenly over the top two ounces of apple jelly (No. 1327); then 
serve. 

1097. BIa<5kberry Pie.  Blackberry pie is to be prepared exactly the 
same as strawberry pie (No. 1095), only substituting a pint and a half of 
well-picked and cleaned blackberries for the strawberries. 

1098. Cherry Pie.  Procure two pounds of fine , sound cherries ; pick 
off the stalks, then stone them with the hands, and place them in a vessel 
with four ounces of powdered sugar, mixing well. Have ready a lined 
pie-plate, fill it with the cherries, arrange the strip around, an,d proceed 
the same as for pineapple pie (No. 1087), then serve. 

1099. Pompkill Pie.  Have a deep pie-plate, one and a half inches 
deep by nine and a half wide ; line it with four ounces of pie-paste (No. 
1077). Cut a two-pound piece off a sound pumpkin, peel it well with a 

'knife, remove the seeds and soft parts, then cut it into twelve pieces; 
place them in a saucepan with three quarts of cold water, leave the pan 
on the hot stove, and let cook for twenty-five minutes. Take from the 
fire, put the pumpkin in a drainer, leaving it for one hour, then press out 
the water tnoroughly with the hand, and rub it through a sieve into 
another vessel. Add two ounces of powdered sugar, and break in three 
whole eggs; add a saltspoonful of ground cloves, a saltspoonful of ground 
allspice, half a saltspoonful of salt, and the same quantity of cinnamon; mix 
all together for two minutes, and pour in half a pint of cold milk, mixing 
well again for one minute, then strain through a sieve into another vessel. 



THE TABLE. 



and use the preparation to fill up the pie-plate, then lay it carefully in a 
moderate oven, and let bake for thirty minutes. Take it from the oven, 
put aside to cool, and cut it into six equal parts ; dress them on a des- 
sert dish with a folded napkin, sprinkle liberally with powdered sugar, 
and serve. 

1100. Custard Pie.  Put four ounces of powdered sugar into a ves- 
sel ; break in five whole eggs, and with a pastry whip beat together for 
three minutes. Add one quart (M cold milk, and flavor with a teaspoonful 
of lemon essence ; mixing well together for two minutes lohger ; strain 
through a sieve into another vessel. Have a deep pie-plate lined exactly 
the same as for pumpkin pie (No. logg), and fill it with the above prepa- 
ration. Place it in a moderate oven, and let bake for thirty minutes, then 
remove, and let get thoroughly cold ; cut the pie into six equal pieces, 
and with the blade of a knife dress them onto a dessert-dish with a folded 
napkin, and serve. 

1101. Cocoannt Fie.  Prepare and proceed exactly the same as for 
custard pie (No. rioo), and when filled, before placing it in the oven, 
spread evenly over six ounces of dried cocoanut ; baking and serving it 
exactly the same. 

1102. Lemon Cream He, M6riiigu6.  Boil one pint of water in a 

saucepan ; put in another vessel four ounces of powdered sugar, mix in 
one ounce of corn-starch, grate in the rind of a sound lemon, squeezing in 
the juice, and mingle well together with the spatula for one minute. 
Break in two whole eggs, beat all together for one minute, and add it to 
the boiling water in the pan, stirring sharply with a wire whip until it 
comes to a boil ; theji take from off the fire. Have ready a lined, flat pie- 
plate as for mince pie (No. 1082), put it in the oven, and let it bake for 
ten minutes, so that the crust gets a good golden color. Remove from 
the oven, and pour the preparation irito it, then let it get thoroughly cold. 
Beat in a copper basin three egg whites to a stiff froth, using a wire 
pastry-whip; mix in three ounces of powdered sugar, and with a spoon lay 
half of it over the 'i)ie, using a knife to flatten it evenly on the top and 
sides. Slide down a fancy tube (No. 3) into a pastry-bag (No. 1079), and 
pour the rest of the froth into it, then decorate the top of the pie artisti- 
cally, laying it in any fanciful design. Sprinkle plenty of sugar over, place 
it in a slow oven for ten minutes to let get a pale brown color, then 
remove it, put it away to cool, slide it carefully onto a dessert-dish, and 
send to the table. 

1103. Apple Pie, M^ringu6.  Butter and line a pie-plate as for mince 
pie (No. 1082); put in a vessel one pound of apple sauce (No. 1328), one 
ounce of powdered sugar, and one ounce of corn-starch. Mix well for 
one minute, then grate in the rind of a sound lemon, squeezing in the 
juice as well ; add half a saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, and mix the 
whole well together for two minutes, then with this fill the pie-plate. 
Place it in the oven, and let bake for twenty minutes ; remove, let get 
thoroughly cold, and finish the same as for lemon pie, m6ringu6 (No. 
1102), serving it as for the above. 



n/isi/iArs. 323 



1104. Cranberry Pie.  Put one quart of fresh cranberries in asauce- 
pan with a gill of cold water and three ounces of powdered sugar ; place 
on a hot stove, stir lightly with the spatula, and let cook for fifteen min- 
utes. Remove from the fire, and rub through a sieve into a vessel, then 
pour it into a lined pie-plate, the same as for mince pie (No. 1082). Place 
it in the oven, and let bake for twenty minutes, then take it out, and let 
cool thoroughly, and finish by decorating it exactly the same as for lemon 
cream pie, mferingufe (No. H02); return- it to the oven for ten minutes, 
then serve as for the lemon pie. 

1105. Pie h la Martha Washington. Peel four ounces of almonds ; 
put them in a mortar with two ounces of powdered sugar, then pound 
them thoroughly, adding gradually one raw egg. When well pounded, 
add two ounces more of powdered sugar, two ounces of melted fresh but- 
ter, half a gill of rum, half a saltspoonful of ground cinnamon, six drops 
of orange-flower water, and break in another whole egg. Pound the 
whole briskly for five minutes, then add two ounces of well-pounded 
macaroons (No. 1210), and mix again for two minutes more. Line a pie- 
plate as for mince pie (No. 1082), pour all the preparation over, cover, 
and bake exactly the same as for the mince pie ; when arranged on a des- 
sert-dish, decorate the top and sides artistically with two ounces of can- 
died cherries, three ounces of pear, one of angelica, two of apricot, and 
two of pineapple, all the fruits being candied, then send to the table. 

1106. Peach Tarts.  Take half a pound of feuilletage (No. 1076), roll 
it out twelve inches long by eight wide, then with a paste-cutter (No. 7) 
cut out six pieces, and arrange them neatly on six scalloped tart-molds, 
each three and a half inches wide. Take each separate mold in the 
hand, and with the thumb press the paste gently at the bottom and sides, 
so to give it the perfect shape of the mold, but avoid pressing the paste 
on the edge, so that in baking it will swell and raise beautifully. Divide 
three ounces of apple marmalade (No. 1332) into six equal parts, and fill 
the bottom of the tarts with it, then wipe six good-sized, solid, tine 
peaches, peel and cut them into six quartered pieces ; arrange them nicely 
over the marmalade in the tarts, then distribute two ounces of powdered 
sugar evenly over all ; lay them on a baking-sheet, put them in a mod- 
erate oven for twenty minutes, draw them to the door, and sprinkle the 
edges lightly with powdered sugar ; then leave them in the closed oven 
for two minutes to allow the sugar to melt thoroughly. Remove them 
from the fire, put to cool for twenty minutes, and then spread evenly over 
the peaches one and a half ounces of apple jelly (No. 1327). Dress the 
tarts on a dessert-dish with a folded napkin, and serve. 

1107. Green-gage Tarts.  Procure twelve ripe green-gages, wipe 
well, cut them in quarters, remove the stones, and proceed to prepare 
them exactly the same as for the above peach tarts (No. 1106). 

1108. Apricot Tarts.  Prepare and proceed exactly the same as for 
peach tarts (No 1106), using ten apricots instead of the peaches, and serv- 
ing the same. 

1109. Pear Tarts.  Are to be prepared precisely the same a peach 



324 '^HE TABLE. 



tarts (No. 1106), only substituting six sound, sliced pears for the 
peaches. / 

1110. Flam Tarts. Have twelve good, ripe plums; wipe and quar- 
ter them; remove the stones, and prepare them exactly the same as for 
peach tarts (No. iro6). 

1111. Cherry Tarts.  Have a pound of picked and stoned cherries; 
divide them evenly into six tarts, prepared as for peach tarts (No. 1106), 
and finishing them the same. 

111!. Bhnbarb Tarts.  Take six medium-sized rhubarb stalks, pare 
off the green parts, and peel them well. Then cut them into small pieces 
half an inch long; put them into a saucepan, on a very slow fire; cover, 
and let cook slowly for fifteen minutes ; then remove, and add three ounces 
of powdered sugar; mix well for one minute, then transfer to another 
vessel, and set aside in a cool place for at least an hour and a half. Divide 
the rhubarb mto six tarts, as for peach tarts (No. 1106); 'finish, and serve 
exactly the same. 

1113. Huckeberry Tarts.  Put in a vessel one pint of well-picked and 
cleaned, sound huckleberries; mix in two ourtces of powdered sugar, and 
with it fill evenly six tarts; cook and serve the same as for peach tarts 
(No. 1106). 

1114. Gooseberry and Currant Tarts.  Are to be prepared precisely 
the same as for the above (No. 1113); using either one pint of gooseberries 
or currants instead of the huckleberries. 

1115. 'Pineapple Tarts.-  Choose a small, sound pineapple, cut it 
in two, roll a towel round one-half and lay it in the ice-box for further 
use. Pare and peal neatly the other half; then cut it into small and very 
thin slices; lay them in a vessel with two ounces of powdered sugar, mix- 
ing lightly for one minute. Arrange the slices carefully over the marma- 
lade in the six tarts, prepared as for peach tarts (No. 1106); then finish, 
arid serve exactly the same. 

1116. Cranberry Tarts.  Have six tart-molds lined as for peach tarts 
(No. 1106); divide into them twelve ounces of cranberry sauce (No. 1329), 
then cook, and serve the same. 

1117. Strawberry Tarts.  Line six tart-molds as for peach tarts (No. 
1106), divide into them evenly eight ounces of apple marmalade (No. 
1332); lay them on a baking-sheet, and put them in a moderate oven for 
twenty minutes; remove them to the door; sprinkling the edges liberally 
with powdered sugar, return them to the oven, and close the door for 
two minutes, so that the sugar melts thorotighly; lift them out, put them 
to cool for twenty minutes, then take out half the marmalade. Pick and 
wash neatly a pint of ripe and sound strawberries ; put them in a vessel with 
two ounces of powdered sugar; mix well for one minute, then divide them 
equally into the six tarts ; spread over one and a half ounces of apple jelly 
(No. 1327); dress them on a dessert-dish with a folded napkin, and serve. 

Ills. Raspberry Tarts.  Prepare and proceed precisely the same as 
for strawberry tarts (No. H17), only substituting a pint of raspberries for 
the strawberries. 



DESSERTS. 



)25 



1119a Blackberry Tarts.  Are to be prepared exactly the same as 
strawberry tarts (No. 1117), using one pint of the smallest sized black- 
berries instead of the strawberries, and serving the same. 

1120. Apple Tarts.  Take four ounces of pie-paste (No. 1077), and 
with it line six oval, channeled tart-molds, four inches long, three inches 
wide, and one deep. Have three ounces of apple marmalade, and divide 
it evenly at the bottom of the molds; then peel, core, and cut four sound, 
medium-sized apples into quarters, and put them in a saucepan, with a 
pint of cold water; place the lid on, and let cook on the hot stove for ten 
minutes; remove, and pour into a drainer; let drain thoroughly; then 
put to cool for thirty minutes. Cut the quartered apples each into three 
lengthwise slices; arrange them nicely over the marmalade, dredging 
equally over them two ounces of powdered sugar; lay them on a baking- 
sheet, and bake for twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven; leave to cool 
for twenty minutes ; then spread evenly over them two ounces of apple 
jelly (No. 1327); dress them onto a dessert-dish with a folded napkin, 
and serve. 

1121. Frang^pani Tarts.  Peel three ounces of shelled almonds, as 
for No. 1207; put them in a mortar, and pound them thoroughly with 
three ounces of powdered sugar, adding one whole raw egg. When a fine 
paste, mix in two ounces of melted fresh butter, half a spoonful of ground 
dnnaraon, six drops of orange-flower water, one more egg, and half a gill 
of rum. Stir well together for ten minutes with the powder. Have ready 
six tart-molds, lined as for peach tarts (No. 1106); then fill them with the 
above preparation; lay them on a baking-sheet, put them in a moderate 
oven for , thirty-five minutes; when done, put them to cool for twenty 
minutes; then glaze the surface with a glace k I'eau and rum (No. 1197). 
Dress on a hot dessert-dish, with a folded napkin, and send to the table. 

1122. Baked Apple Dnmplings.  Sift one pound of flour on the table, 
make a hollow in the centre, laying in it (iiaXi a pound of butter, mingling 
it slightly with the flour for five minutes ; when done, make another 
hollow in the centre, pour into it half a pint of cold water and two ounces 
of powdered sugar. Mix all together gradually for five minutes longer; 
it will then be a firm dough. Roll it together with the hands, and put it 
in a cool place for five minutes. Peel and core six medium-sized pippin 
apples, sprinkle the table lightly with flour, lay the butter on it, roll it 
out twelve inches long by eight wide, and about the thickness of a silver 
dollar, then cut it into six equal-sized, square pieces. Arrange the apples 
upwards in the middle of each square piece ; mix together two ounces of 
granulated sugar with one teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, and fill the 
cavities of the apples with this. Break one egg into a bowl, beat it well, 
adding two tablespoonfuls of cold milk, mix well, and with a pastry hair- 
brush moisten the edges of the pieces of dough, arid fold them firmly so that 
the apples are entirely enclosed. Lay them on a baking-pan, and with the 
rest of the beaten egg brush over the surface and sides of the dumplings. 
Place them in a moderate oven for thirty minutes, and after they are 
a nice light golden color, remove, and dress them on a dessert-dish, 



326 . THE TABLE. 



leaving them to rest in the open oven for twenty minutes, then pour the 
following sauce over before serving : put into a saucepan one pint of 
water, six ounces of granulated sugar, one bay-leaf, six cloves, and an 
inch-long stick of cinnamon. Place the pan on the hot stove, and let boil 
for five minutes ; dilute half an ounce of corn-starch in a bowl with half a 
gill of cold water, add it to the sauce, mix well, and let cook for two min- 
utes longer, stirring briskly with a spatula. Remove from the fire, and 
immediately add half a pint of good claret ; stir again, and when ready to 
serve, strain the sauce through a sieve over the dumplings. Hard sauce, 
as in the following number, may be substituted if desired, or both. 

1123. Hard Sauce.  Put in a bowl two ounces of very good fresh 
butter with four ounces of powdered sugar, then with a spatula, beat to- 
gether sharply for twenty minutes ; add half a saltspoonful of powdered 
mace, beat briskly for five minutes longer, then arrange it tastefully on 
a dessert-dish, and place it in the ice-box for two hours before serving. 

1124. Baked Apples. ^Core with an apple-corer six fine, sound New- 
town apples, lay them in a tin pan. Put in a plate two ounces of gran- 
ulated sugar with a saltspoonful of cinnamon, mix well, and with this fill 
the holes in the apples ; add half a pint of cold water, and place the pan 
in a moderate oven to let bake for twenty-five minutes ; remove, and 
dress them on a dessert-dish, pouring over the juice remaining in the 
pan, and serve either hot or cold. 

1125. Boiled Peach Dumplings.  Put in a vessel half a pound of well- 
sifted flour, mixed with half an ounce of baking-powder ; make a hollow 
in the centre, and pour into it a gill of lukewarm milk, half an ounce of 
butter, half a saltspoonful of salt, and break in one whole egg. Mix 
these ingredients well for two minutes, then incorporate the flour grad- 
ually. Lay the paste on a lightly floured board or table, roll it into a 
square a quarter of an inch thick, then with a plain paste-cutter (No. 7) 
cut out six pieces, putting in the middle of each piece two ounces of 
stewed peaches (No. 1334), fold up the edges all round, so as to enclose 
the peaches entirely, then have six small pieces of thick white cloth, eight 
inches square, butter and flour them well, then arrange the dumplings in 
them ; tie them firmly, leaving an empty space of an inch to allow the 
dumplings to swell, and plunge them in a large saucepan, holding a gal- 
lon of boiling water, and let them boil for twenty minutes ; remove from 
the fire, and lift them out with a fork ; ^et drain for two minutes, then 
cut the strings and remove the cloths. Dress the dumplings on a hot 
dessert-dish, pour over a hot wine'sauce as for No. 1122, and serve. 

1126. Boiled Apricot Dumplings.  Prepare and proceed exactly the 
same as for boiled peach dumplings (No. 1125), only substituting twelve 
ounces of stewed apricots (No. 1335) for the peaches, and serve with a 
rum sauce (No. 1162), instead of wine sauce. 

1.127. Boiled Apple Dnmplil^.  Prepare and proceed precisely as for 
boiled peach dumplings (No. 1125), only using twelve ounces of stewed 
apples (No. 1332) for the peaches, and pouring the sauce (No. 1128) over, 
instead of.the wine sauce. 



DEssEJirs. 327 



1128. Apricot SaDce.  Put four ounces of apricot marmalade (No. 
1335) into a saucepan with one ounce of fresh butter and a gill of water ; 
set it on the hot stove and stir briskly with the spatula until it comes to a 
boil, then take from off the fire, and add immediately a. gill of good 
brandy, mixing again with the spatula for one minute more, then pour the 
sauce over the boiled apple dumplings, and serve. 

1129. Diplomatic Pudding, Punch Sauce.  Pare off, remove the skin 

and strings from four ounces of veal-suet and three ounces of beef-mar- 
row, lay them in a saucepan with two ounces of finely chopped plums and 
three ounces of flour. Place the saucepan on a slow fire, an^ stir well 
with the spatula for six minutes ; add three egg yolks and one whole egg, 
half a gill of sweet cream, half a gill of maraschino, a. saltspoonful of salt, 
and half a saltspoonful of grated nutmeg. Stir all together thoroughly 
for six minutes, not letting it boil, then take it off the fire, and lay the pan 
in a cool place,' adding one ounce of whole pistache, also two ounces of 
macaroons pounded in a. mortar, half an ounce of angelica, and half an 
ounce of candied cherries, all well chopped. Mix well for one minute ; 
peel, core, and chop up three medium-sized apples, add them to the prep- 
aration with two ounces of powdered sugar, and a tablespoonful of vanilla 
flavoring ; then stir all together for twelve or fifteen minutes. Butter 
and flour neatly a cloth, arrange it in a deep vessel, and pour the prepa- 
ration into it ; lift up the four corners, close them together, and tie firmly 
with a string, leaving an empty space, about the eighth of the contents, to 
allow it to swell. Have a saucepan half full of boiling water ready to 
plunge the pudding into, then let boil for three full hours ; the pudding 
will constantly float, therefore turn it every hour, when it will be thor- 
oughly cooked. Remove it, let drain for two minutes, untie, lift it from 
the cloth, and dress it on a hot dessert-dish. Have ready the following 
sauce : put in a saucepan half a gill of rum, three ounces of powdered 
sugar, the grated rind of half an orange, and a teaspoonful of vanilla 
flavoring. Put it on the stove, and as soon as the liquid catches a light 
flame, put on the lid and let all infuse for one minute. Take from off the 
fire, and immediately squeeze in the juice of one orange ; strain through a 
sieve over the pudding, and serve very hot. 

1130. Rice Pudding witll Orange.  Clean half a pound of fine rice; 
wash it in lukewarm water, then drain in a colander; put three pints of 
milk into a saucepan, place it on the hot stove, and when near a boil, drop 
in the rice. Let cook slowly for twelve minutes, stirring it frequently 
from the bottom with a spatula; remove it from the fire, and add one 
ounce of fresh butter, three ounces of powdered sugar, and the grated 
rind of a medium-sized orange. Mix well for two minutes, then add three 
ounces of well-skinned and stringed marrow, finely chopped, two ounces 
of dried and cleaned currants (No. 1080), two ounces of bitter almond 
macaroons (No. 1209), one ounce of finely shred candied orange-peel, three 
egg yolks, one whole one, half a gill of brandy, and half d saltspoonful of 
salt; mix well together for ten minutes. Have a buttered and floured 
cloth, arrange it in a deep vessel, and pour the preparation into it; lift up 



328 THE TABLE. 



the four corners, tie it firmly, being careful to leave an empty space of 
about an eighth of the contents. 

Place a deep saucepan on the stove, half filled with boiling water; 
plunge the pudding in, and let cook for one hour and a half, turning it over 
a couple of times; remove, drain for one minute, untie, and lift from the 
cloth. - Dress on a dessert-dish, and serve with the following sauce (No. 
1131). 

1131.. Sauce k I'Anglaise k I'Orange.  Put in a saucepan four egg 
yolks with four ounces of powdered sugar, and stir with a spatula until it 
becomes a whitish color. Add two gills of sweet cream, little by little, 
beating continually, then grate in the rind of an orange. Place the pan 
on a slow stove, and stir well for four minutes, being careful not to let it 
boil; take it off, strain through a sieve over the pudding, and serve very 
hot. 

1132. Bread Pudding, Cream Sance.  Take a deep, oval dish as for a 
pot-pie, and large enough to hold three pints. Pare off the crust of half 
a loaf of stale American bread, and cut it into slices the third of an inch 
thick; butter them well with melted butter, and with them line the dish. 
Put in a vessel six ounces of currants, prepared as for No. 1080, two whole 
eggs, a pint of cold milk, four ounces of powdered sugar, and grate in the 
rind of a medium-sized lemon, adding its juice. Mix-well together with 
a spatula for two minutes, then pour it into the lined dish, and place it in 
a moderate oven to cook for thirty minutes. Take it from the oven, 
lay it on another dish, and serve very hot. 

1133. Cream Sauce.  Put a pint of milk to boil in a saucepan on the 
stove. Break into a vessel two whole raw eggs, add one ounce of flour, 
half an ounce of corn-starch, and three ounces of powdered sugar, beating 
the whole well together with a spatula for three minutes. If the milk be 
boiling, add it gradually to the preparation, stirring continually for two 
minutes, return the whole to the saucepan, place it on the stove, and stir 
briskly till it comes to a boil, then remove, and add immediately a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla flavoring. Strain the sauce through a sieve into -j, 
sauce-bowl, and serve. 

1134. Cold Maraschino Pudding.  Put in a copper basin a quarter of 
a pound of powdered sugar, two whole raw eggs, and grate in the rind of 
a quarter of a medium-sized lemon, and with a pastry whip beat the whole 
sharply for two minutes ; put the basm on a very moderate fire, then beat 
it vigorously fof five minutes more. Remove it from the fire, lay the basin 
on a table, continue beating slowly for two minutes longer, then give the 
whip a sharp shake, so that all that adheres to it falls into the basin.. Now 
add a quarter of a pound of flour, and with a wooden spoon mix slowly and 
carefully the whole for two minutes. Cover a pastry baking-pan with a 
sheet of brown paper, pour the paste over it, spread out to the thickness of 
half an inch ; put it into a moderate oven, and let bake for fifteen minutes, 
then take jt out, let cool for another fifteen minutes, and remove from the 
pan. Place it on a table upside down, remove the paper, and with a knife 
cut it into small, square, dice-shaped pieces, mixing with them one ounce 



Z>SS/?TS. 



of dried currants, as for No. 1080, and one ounce of finely chopped can- 
died citron. 

Butter and sugar well six small pudding-molds, each capable of con- 
taining one and a half gills. Fill them equally with the above preparation, 
then put in a vessel four ounces of powdered sugar with two raw eggs ; 
beat well with a pastry-whip for two minutes, then add a pint of cold milk, 
mixing again for one minute, strain through a sieve into another vessel, 
add half a teaspoonful of lemon essence, and stir lightly for one minute 
more. Pour this slowly over the puddings, a little each time, so as to 
give the necessary opportunity for it to absorb; lay them on a tin pan, 
filled to half the height of the molds with warm but not boiling water, 
then place in a moderate oven to steam for thirty minutes ; remove them 
from the pan, and lay them in a cool place for one hour, afterwards leav- 
ing them in the ice-box until ready to serve. Take a pint of whipped 
cream, as for No. 1254, put it in a vessel, mixing in for two minutes half 
a gill of good maraschino, and leave it in the ice-box until ready ; then 
prepare a cold dessert-dish. Run a thin knife down each pudding sepa- 
rately, from top to bottom, pass it carefully around the mold, so as to 
detach them easily. Pour the maraschino sauce over, and send to the 
table immediately. 

1135. Cold Pndding k la Porflrio Diaz.  Prepare six small puddings 
exactly the same as for No. 1134, only substituting sauce k la Diaz (No. 
1 136) for the maraschino sauce. 

1136. Sauce a la Diaz.  Put into a saucepan half a pint of Jamaica 
rum, three ounces of granulated sugar, half a split vanilla-bean, grate in 
the rind of a medium-sized orange, and add a gill of Marcella wine. Place 
the pan on the stove, and as soon as the liquid catches fire put on the 
cover, and let boil for one minute only. Set the pan on one side to allow 
It to infuse for five minutes, then strain through a fine sieve into a bowl, 
transfer it to a jar, cover tightly, and let cool off thoroughly. When ready 
to serve, pour the sauce over the puddings, distributing it evenly, and 
then send to the table. 

1137. English Pudding; Baked.  Put in a saucepan two gills of sweet 
cream, three ounces of powdered sugar, and the peel of half a medium- 
sized lemon; place the pan on the stove, and, with a spatula, stir, and let 
boil for three minutes and take off the fire. Have ten ounces of stale 
French bread, pare off the crust and cut it into small, dice-shaped pieces; 
add them to the preparation, mixing lightly; put on the lid, and let the 
bread soak for ten minutes. Chop up very fine one ounce of candied cit- 
ron; mix it with four ounces of dried currants, prepared as for No. 1080, 
four ounces of melted butter, foi^ir ounces of melted and strained beef- 
marrow, and a saltspoonful of salt. With the hand stir thoroughly for 
iwo minutes. Pour this preparation in with the soaked bread, and mix 
gently, either with the hand or a spatula, for ten minutes; meanwhile 
breaking in three eggs, one by one at a minute's interval, and adding a 
gill of Madeira wine and half a gill of cognac. Butter, and sprinkle well 
with bread-crumbs a two-quart pudding-mold; pour in all the prepara- 



THE TABLE. 



tion, lay it on a baking-pan, and place it in a slow oven to bake for one 
and a half hours. Remove, and with the aid of a towel turn it onto a hot 
dessert-dish, serving it with a hot Sabayon sauce au madfere (No. 1138). 

1138. Sabayon Sance au Mad^re.  Put in a saucepan four egg yolks 
and an ounce and a half of powdered sugar ; place it on a hot stove, and 
with a wire whip stir well for two minutes. Drop in gradually two gills 
of Madeira wine; stir continually for two minutes; take from the fire, and 
strain through a fine sieve over the pudding. 

1139. French Pudding & la Delmonico.  Line theinsides of six oval, 
channeled, deep tart-molds, each holding one and a half gills, with four 
ounces of pie-paste (No. 1077). Prepare a cake exactly as for Maraschino 
pudding (No. 1134), and when cooked and on the table, remove the paper, 
and break up the cake in small pieces, into a vessel. Moisten with two 
gills of cold milk and two eggs, and mix well with the spatula for two 
minutes; add two ounces of dried currants (No. 1080). Mix in a saucer a 
saltspoonful of cinnamon, with one of allspice and one of cloves, all 
ground, and add it to the preparation in the bowl; stir well for three 
minutes; then, with a wooden spoon, fill up the molds, and lay them ona 
baking-pan. Put it into a moderate oven for ten minutes; then remove, 
iCOol off, and unmold; lay them ona table, and pour over each pudding 
a teaspooniul of rum, and with a light pastry-brush glaze the surface 
with glace a I'eau (No. 1197). Dress them on a dessert - dish, and 
serve. 

1140. Sago Pnddin^.  Boil in a saucepan v one quart of milk; add a 
quarter of a pound of sago, and, with a pastry wire-whip, stir briskly and 
continually for fifteen minutes. Take from off the fire; let cool; then 
add four ounces of powdered sugar, mixing well again fpr one minute. 
Break in four eggs, and flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla essence; then 
mix well for two minutes longer. Butter and sugar well six small pud- 
ding-molds, the same size as for maraschino pudding (No. 1134), and, with a 
ladle, fill up the molds with the sago; place them in a tin pan, filling it to 
half the height of the molds with warm but not boiling water. Then put 
in the oven and let steam for thirty-five minutes. Remove; take the 
molds from the pan with a towel, and with a thin knife detach them prop- 
erly. Then turn them on a hot dessert-dish, serving them with a sauce 
k la creme (No. 1133). 

1141. Tapioca Pndding.  The same as for the above, using tapioca. 

1142. Vermicelli Fudding.  The same, using vermicelli. 

1143. Bice Pudding. The same, using rice. 

1144. Farina Pudding. The same, using farina. 

1145. Indian Pudding.  The same, using corn-meal. 

1146. Chocolate Pudding.  Put in a saucepan five ounces of fresh 
butter, five ounces of powdered sugar, five ounces of finely cut cocoa, and 
five egg yolks ; place the pan on the hot stove, and with a pastry-whip 
stir briskly for five minutes, then take from off the fire. Beat up in a 
copper basin the whites of the five eggg to a firm froth, and add them to 
the preparation in the saucepan, mixing all well together for two minutes. 



DESSEHTS. 331 



Butter and sugar well six small pudding-molds as for No. 11 34, and fill 
them with the preparation, then place them in a tin pan, filling the pan to 
half the height of the molds with warm but not boiling water. Put in 
the oven for thirty minutes, then take out, turn them on a hot dessert- 
dish, and serve with a sauce k la creme (No. 1133) poured over. 

1117. Cocoannt Pndding.  Butter and sugar well six small pudding- 
molds as for No. 1134; distribute evenly in them half a pound of dried 
cocoanut. Put into a vessel four ounces of powdered sugar, break in 
three whole eggs, mix well for two minutes with the wire whip, then add 
one and a half pints of cold milk ; flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla 
flavoring, then mix two minutes longer. Strain through a sieve into 
another vessel, and with it fill up the molds ; arrange them on a tin pan, 
fill to half their height with warm but not boiling water, then put in the 
oven and let steam for thirty-five minutes. Take from the oven, turn on 
a hot dessert-dish, and serve with a. sauce k la creme (No. 1133), flavored 
with half a gill of brandy. 

1148. Pineapple Pudding h la Bichelien. Boil in a saucepan two 
gills of milk, adding two ounces of fresh butter ; let melt well. Have 
half a pound of flour and the spatula ready. Drop the flour in, and stir 
immediately with the spatula as briskly as possible for two minutes ; 
remove from off the fire, add three egg yolks, and stir again vigorously 
for two minutes more, drop in three ounces of powdered sugar, continue 
stirring for one minute, then pour in a gill of cold milk, mixing well. 
Beat to a stiff froth the whites of the three eggs, and add them gradually 
to the preparation, mixing slowly for two minutes. Butter and sugar a 
mold holding three pints ; put a layer of the preparation half an inch 
thick at the bottom, cover with two ounces of fine slices of stewed pine- 
apple, then another layer of the preparation, again the same quantity of 
pineapple, and repeat twice more. Place the mold in a. tin pan, fill it to 
half the height of the mold with warm water, and set it in the oven to 
steam for one hour. Remove, and with a towel turn it on a hot dessert- 
dish, and serve with a sauce-bowl of sauce au Kirsch (No. 1149). 

1149. Sance an Kirsch.  Pour in a saucepan one pint of cold 
water and half a pound of granulated sugar ; place it on a hot stove. 
Dilute an ounce of corn-starch in a cup with a gill of cold water, and 
when the water in the saucepan is boiling, add it to it, stirring well for two 
minutes with the pastry-whip. Take off from the fire, then add imme- 
diately half a gill of kirsch, and mix again for one minute ; strain 
through a fine sieve into a sauce-bowl, and serve very hot with the pud- 
ding. 

1150. Peach Padding k la Richelieu.  Prepare and proceed exactly 
the same as for the above. No. 1148, only instead of using pineapple, 
have eight peeled and finely sliced peaches, either fresh or preserved. 
Steam, arrange.on the dish, and serve precisely the same, with the sauce 
au kirsch (No. 1149). 

1151. Apricot Pndding k la Richelieu. The same as for the pine- 
apple pudding (No. 1148), but using twelve sound, peeled, and finely 



532 THE TABLE. 



sliced apricots instead of the pineapples, and then serve the pudding and 
sauce exactly the same. 

1152. Apple Podding k I'HelT^tienne. Prepare a pudding- paste 
exactly the same as for pinapple pudding (No. 1148) ; when ready, peel, 
core, and slice finely five medium-sized, sound apples ; put them into a 
vessel, mix with them one ounce of powdered sugar and a teaspoonful of 
powdered cinnamon, and add this to the paste, and with a spatula mix 
thoroughly all together for three minutes. Butter and sugar well a three- 
pint mold, pour in the preparation, and lay the mold in a tin pan, filled 
to half the height of the mold with warm water ; place in the oven, and 
let steam for one hour; take it from the oven, and with a towel turn it on 
a hot dessert-dish, and serve with the following sauce (No. X153) in a 
sauce-bowl. 

1153. Sauce Chanfansen.  Put half a pint of cold water in a sauce- 
pan, with three ounces of powdered sugar, six cloves, a bay-leaf, and a 
piece of cinnamon about an itoch long. Put the pan on the fire, and let it 
boil for five minutes ; then dilute an ounce of corn-starch with a gill of 
cold water ; add it to the contents of the pan, and with a whip stir briskly 
for two minutes. Add one pint of Chaufausen wine, still stirring for one 
minute longer, then take from off the fire, strain through a sieve into a 
sauce-bowl, and serve. 

1154. Custard Pudding.  ^Put into a vessel a quarter of a pound of 
powdered sugar, break in five whole eggs, and with the pastry- whip mix 
well for two minutes ; add a quart of good, cold milk, and flavor with 'a 
teaspoonful of lemon essence ; mix well together for one minute. Butter 
and sugar well six small pudding-molds, as for maraschino pudding (No. 
1134) ; strain the preparation into another bowl, and then pour it into the, 
molds ; arrange them on a tin pan filled to half the height of the molds 
with warm but not boiling water; then place them in a moderate oven 
to steam for forty minutes. Remove from the oven, and with a towel 
turn them on a hot dessert-dish, serving with a. sauce a la crSme. 
(No. 1133). 

1155. Nelson Pudding.  Butter and sugar well six small pudding-' 
molds, as for maraschino pudding (No. 1134). Prepare twelve lady- 
fingers (No. 1231), cut them in two, paring them neatly and carefully, so 
as to be able to line the molds evenly, then cut the parings into small 
pieces. Mix in a plate three ounces of candied cherries with two ounces 
of well-chopped citron ; cover the bottom of the molds with two ounces 
of this, then a layer of the lady-fingers; spread half of the remaining fruit 
on top, and fill in with the rest of the cake, finishing with the balance of 
the fruit ; then pour over the following custard : put into a vessel four 
ounces of powdered sugar three whole eggs, and beat briskly with a 
pastry-whip for two minutes, then add a pint of cold milk, flavor with a 
teaspoonful of lemon essence, mix for one minute longer, then strain 
through a sieve into another vessel, and with a ladle divide it evenly over 
the six puddings. Set the molds in a tin pan, filling it to half their 
height with warm water, and "place it in a moderate oven to steam for 



DESSEJirS. 



n n 'f 
JJJ 



thirty-five minutes; take out from the oven, turn them on a hot dessert- 
dish, and serve with a Daniel Webster sauce (No. 1156). 

1156. Daniel Webster Sance.  Put into a saucepan four ounces of 
apricot marmalade (No. 1335), with half a gill of cold water; place it on 
the fire, and stir until boiling; then take it off, and add immediately half a 
pint of Saint Angelos Tokay wine, stirring thoroughly for one minute. 
Strain through a sieve over the puddings, and serve. 

1157. Lemon Padding, Cream Sauce.  Put in a saucepan six 
ounces of fresh butter, six ounces of powdered sugar, six egg yolks, and 
the grated peel of a medium-sized, sound lemon, squeezmg in the juice as 
well. Set the pan on the hot stove, and with a wire pastry-whip stir 
sharply for at least five minutes. Remove from the fire and lay it on 
a table; beat in a copper basin the six egg-whites to a stiff froth, and add 
them to the other preparation, beating with the whip thoroughly but not 
briskly for ten minutes. Butter and sugar well six pudding-molds as for 
No. 1134, fill them with the preparation, steam them in a tin pan, and 
serve exactly the same as for custard pudding (No. 11 54). 

115S. Orange Padding.  Proceed and prepare the same as for lemon 
pudding (No. 11 57), only substituting an orange for the lemon, and serving 
with the following sauce: put in a saucepan two ounces of powdered sugar, 
half an ounce of flour, and break in three eggs , adding a teaspoonf ul of 
corn-starch, and then with the pastry-whip beating all together for three 
minutes. Mix in three gills of boiling milk, place it on the stove, and stir 
well until boiling; then remove, and add immediately a gill of sherry wine, 
mixing well for a minute longer, then strain through a sieve over the 
puddings. Send to the table hot. 

1159. Pudding Si la U. S. Grant.  Cut into small pieces six biscuits 
4 la cuillfere (No. 1231); put them into a vessel with three ounces of 
candied cherries cut in two, three ounces of preserved quinces cut into 
very fine pieces, two ounces of dried currants (No. 1080), three ounces of 
powdered sugar, and two ounces of finely chopped candied apricots; break 
in three whole eggs, and pour over half a pint of cold milk, and with the 
spatula mix well together for two minutes. Peel, core, and chop up three 
medium-sized, fine, sound apples; add them to the other ingredients, and 
mix lightly for one minute. Butter and sugar well around the inside of a 
three-pint pudding-mold, pour in the preparation, lay the mold in a tin 
pan, filling it to half the height of the mold with warm water; put it in a 
moderate oven, and let steam for one hour, then remove, and with a towel 
turn it on a hot dessert-dish, serving with the following sauce (No. 1160), 
in a sauce-bowl. 

1160. Sance for U. S. Grant Pudding.  Put five ounces of peach 
marmalade (No. 1331) into a saucepan with one ounce of quince jelly and 
one ounce of fresh butter ; place the pan on the stove, and stir with the 
spatula, letting it boil for one minute ; take from off the fire, add immedi- 
ately a pint of champagne, then return to the stove, and stir well, heating 
it thoroughly, but not allowing it to boil. Remove, and strain through a 
sieve into a sauce-bowl, and send to the table very hot with the pudding. 



334 "^^^ TABLE. 



1161.. Frnit Pudding, Rum Sauce.  Butter well a pudding- mold 
four iilches high, containing one quart, line the interior with half a pound, 
of dumpling-batter (No. 1125), Put into a vessel four ounces of stoned 
cherries, three ounces of stoned plums, and three ounces of stoned apri- 
cots ; sift four ounces of powdered sugar over, mix well, and pour it into 
the mold. Have half a pint of water in a saucepan with- six ounces of 
granulated sugar, place it on the stove, and let boil for five minutes, then 
fill up the mold with this syrup, and lay it in a baking-pan in a very hot 
oven for thirty minutes. Remove, and keep it in a warm place. 

1162. Rum Sauce.  Put in a saucepan half a pint of water with four 
ounces of granulated sugar, and place it on the stove, adding a teaspoon- 
ful of caramel (No. 1252) ; when boiling add half an ounce of corn-starch, 
diluted in two tablespoonfuls of cold water, stir well with a spatula, and 
let cook for two minutes. Remove from the fire, and add immediately 
half agill of Jamaica rum, mixing well, then strain it through a fine sieve 
into a bowl. Lay a dessert-dish over the mold, turn the pudding onto 
it, pour the sauce over, and serve. 

1163. Plum Pudding.  Remove the skin and strings from six ounces 
of fresh beef-marrow ; chop it up very fine, and place it in a basin ; pick 
and wash, as for No. 1080, three ounces of dried currants, three ounces of 
dried Sultanas (No. 1080), and mix them well together with the marrow ; 
add three ounces of Malaga raisins (No: 1081), three-quarters of a pound 
of crumbled bread-crumbs, half a gill of Madeira wine, half a gill of 
brandy, half a gill of rum, the grated rind of half a lemon, two ounces of 
candied citron, shred very fine, two ounces of powdered sugar, a salt- 
spoonful of salt, and two whole eggs. Moisten the whole with a. gill of 
cold, milk, add a saltspoonf ul each of allspice, ground clove, and cinnamon, 
and half the quantity of grated nutmeg ; knead well with the hands, so 
that the ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, which will take ten min- 
utes. Boil some water in a saucepan capable of holding the pudding ; 
butter and flour a cloth, lay it on a large colander, which will answer for 
a hollow mold ; pour the mixture into it, then hold the four corners 
together, and tie it firmly, allowing sufficient space for it to swell. 
Plunge the pudding into the boiling water, and let cook, leaving it half 
covered ; the water must boil steadily for five hours ; every hour turn it 
over, and then make the following sauce : put into a saucepan one ounce 
of fresh butter, two drachms of flour, and three drops of lemon juice, the 
finely sliced rind of a quarter of a lemon, half a saltspoonful of salt, and 
half an ounce of powdered sugar. Moisten with a gill of port wine, then 
place the pan on the stove, and with a spatula stir well, until it comes to 
a boil. Remove from the fire, and strain through a fine sieve into a bowl. 
When ready to serve, drain the plum pudding for one moment, untie, and 
open the cloth ; serve it immediately, pouring some of the sauce over. 

1164. Cabinet Pudding k la Sadi-Camot.  Butter and sugar a pud- 
ding-mold of the capacity of three pints. Have ready four ounces of 
Malaga raisins, prepared as for No. 1081, three ounces of Sultana, three 
ounces of currants, as for No. 1080, three ounces of finely chopped candied 



DESSEJiTS. 



335 



citron, and three ounces of candied cherries, cut in two. Mix well 
together, then with four ounces of the fruit cover the bottom of the mold, 
put on top a layer of biscuits ^ la cuillfere (No. 1231), or sjices of sponge 
calce, four more ounces of fruit, another layer of cake, and repeat twice 
more, and the mold will then be full. Put into a vessel a pint and a half 
of cold milk, six ounces of powdered sugar, three raw, fresh eggs, and a 
teaspoonful of lemon essence, and with a pastry- whip beat well for two 
minutes. Strain inta another vessel, then pour it slowly and carefully 
over the cake in the mold, so that it will be thoroughly impregnated. Lay 
the mold in a square tin pan, filling it to half its height with hot water, 
then place in a moderate oven for one hour. Remove it from the pan, 
lay a dessert-dish over the mold, unmold, and decorate the top with fanci- 
ful designs of red-currant jelly (No. 1326); serve it hot with a sauce-bowl- 
ful of the following sauce (No. 1165). 

1163. Sance & la Sadi-Camot.  Put in a saucepan two ounces of fresh 
butter, stir in one ounce of flour, and moisten slowly with a gill of cold 
water, turning continually; add two ounces of powdered sugar, place the 
pan on the stove, add half a pint of ChS,teau-Lagrange wine, and a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla flavoring. Stir well, and let boil for one minute, then 
remove, and strain it through a sieve into another saucepan; replace the 
pan on the comer of the stove so as to keep it hot, then take one ounce of 
citron, slice it as fine as possible, also one ounce of hnely minced pistache; 
add them to the other ingredients, and finally stir in slowly a tablespoon- 
ful of red cura9oa; mix well together for one minute, then pour into the 
sauce-bowl, and serve. 

1166. Caramel Pudduig'.  Put in a vessel four eggs with three ounces 
of powdered sugar, mix briskly with the pastry-whip for two minutes, 
then add one and a half pints of cold milk, and a teaspoonful of lemon 
essence; then mix well again for one minute, strafn this through a sieve 
into another vessel. Butter and sugar well six small molds as for maras- 
chino pudding (No. 1134), fill them one inch high with caramel (No. 1252), 
let cool off for five minutes, then pour in the preparation, dividing it 
equally; place them in a tin pan filled to half the height of the molds with 
warm but not boiling water, put in a moderate oven, and let steam for 
forty minutes. Take them out, turn them on a hot dessert-dish, and 
serve in their own sauce. This pudding may be prepared in cups instead 
of molds. 

1167. Apple Charlotte.  Select four large or six medium-sized New- 
town pippins. Peel, core, and cut them into quarters. Put them into a 
saucepan with two ounces of fresh butter and four ounces of powdered 
sugar, and place on a moderate fire. Toss them for two minutes, then 
moisten with a gill of white wine, and grate in the peel of half a lemon. 
Cover the saucepan, and let cook for ten minutes so that the liquid be 
almost entirely absorbed by the apples. Remove from the fire, and put 
aside to cool. Take a three-pint charlotte-mold ; line it, beginning from 
the bottom, with cut slices of American bread the thickness of a silver 
dollar. Glaie them well with melted butter, using a hair brush for the 



336 THE TABLE. 



purpose, and sprinkle powdered sugar lightly over. Let each slice over- 
lap slightly until the bottom is covered. Then line the sides to the edge 
in the same way. Fill the mold with the prepared apples, and cover 
with slices of bread. Lay it on a baking-pan, and place it in a brisk oven 
for forty-five minutes, or until the bread be a good golden color. Then 
take it out, lay a hot dessert-dish on top, turn it over, and remove the 
mold. Heat in a saucepan two ounces of apricot nlarmalade with two 
tablespoonfuls of maraschino and one of water. Mix well, pour it over 
the charlotte, and serve very hot. 

116$. Small Apple Charlottes.  Prepare and cook the apples the 
same as for No. 1167, and when removed from the fire, put it aside to cool. 
Trim the crust off of a quarter of a loaf of stale American bread. Cut it 
into slices the thickness of a silver dollar. Butter and sugar well six 
small, round pudding-molds. Shape the slices of bread carefully, to line 
the insides. Butter them lightly ; place them in a clean baking-pan, and 
leave in the oven for five minutes to get a brown color. Remove them; 
let them cool a little, and then line the molds with them. Fill in with 
the apples, and lay the full molds on a baking-pan in the oven for twenty 
minutes. Turn the charlottes out on a dessert-dish. Heat half a pint of 
raspberry juice in a saucepan, pour it over them, and serve hot. 

1169. Apples with IMce.  Core and peel neatly six sound, fine New- 
town apples. Put into a saucepa^i with a gill of water and two ounces of 
sugar. Place it on a hot stove, put the lid on, and let cook for ten min- 
utes. Meanwhile boil four ounces of rice in a pint and a half of milk, 
with half a saltspoonful of salt. Flavor it with six drops of orange-flower 
water, and let cook for twelve minutesi Place the cooked apples in a 
square tin pan, pour the boiled rice over them, and put into a moderate 
oven for ten minutes. Then have a hot , dessert-dish ready, and with a 
tinned cake-turner dress them carefully on the dish, decorating the sides 
with the rice. Should a pyramidal shape be desired, place three apples 
in the centre, two on top of these, and the last one above them all, then 
fill up the empty space around them with the rice, and serve with half a 
pint of vanilla syrup in a separate sauce-bowl. 

The sauce is made thus : put two pounds of granulated sugar into a 
saucepan with one quart of cold water, and set it on the hot stove. Stir 
well for two minutes ; add two vanilla-beans split in halves, and boil for 
ten minutes longer. Remove from the fire ; strain through a sieve into 
another vessel, and use when required. This syrup, when cold, may be 
poured into bottles, and if corked tightly and put away in a cool place, 
will keep in good condition for a month at least. 

1170. Eiz an Lait d'Amandes.  Into one pint of boiling water in a 
saucepan drop four ounces of well-cleaned rice, with half a saltspoonful 
of salt, the peel of a quarter of a medium-sized, sound lemon, and two 
leaves of the almond branch. Let all cook together for twelve minutes. 
Meanwhile peel four ounces of almonds. Pound them in a mortar with 
two tablespoonfuls of sweet cream, or the same quantity of cold milk will 
answer. Tie a clean napkin over a vessel ; pour on the pounded almonds, 



D ESSEX TS. 337 



and with a spatula rub the liquid gently through. Remove the rice from 
the stove ; take out the almond-leaves and lemon-peel ; then sweeten with 
three ounces of powdered sugar, and add the almond milk. Return it to 
the stove, and with a spatula stir gently while cooking for twelve min- 
utes. Pour into a hot china or glass bowl, and send to the table. 

1171. Biz an Lait d'Amandes kl'Airolo.  Proceed and prepare the 
rice exactly as for the above (No. ii"o), but after removing it from the 
stove add imttiediately half a gill of pure Swiss kirschwasser, mixing it 
in well with a spatula for five minutes. Pour into a china or glass bowl ; 
cool for one hour at least; then place it in the ice-box until ready to serve. 

1172. Biz anx Pommes h. la Bonne Femme.  Put a pint of milk m a 
saucepan on the stove. When boiling, add three ounces of well-cleaned 
rice and half a saltspoonful of salt. Let cook for twenty minutes, adding 
one ounce of butter. Mix for one minute ; then remove from the fire, 
and let it cool off for thirty miniltes. Add the yolks of two eggs. Beat 
the whites to a froth in a basin with a wire whip, and add them to the 
rice. Sweeten with three ounces of powdered sugar and flavor with a 
teaspoonful of orange-flower water. Mix well together for five minutes. 
Peel and core four sound Newtown pippin apples, and cut in slices about the 
thickness of a silver dollar. Butter the sides of a saucepan lightly ; then 
cover the bottom with a layer of the prepared rice half an inch thick ; put 
a layer of sliced apples over this, and so dispose of all the apples and rice 
in alternate layers. Put on the lid, and put the saucepan into a moderate 
oven for fifteen minutes. Remove, dress on a hot dish, and serve. 

1173 Biz aa Pommes il la Czar.  Prepare rice and apples as above 
(No. 1172), but before putting into the oven, run a larding needle down 
through it in a dozen places at equal distances, and pour over half a gill 
of Russian kummel. Put on the lid; place in a moderate oven and let 
cook for twenty minutes. Remove, and dress it neatly on a dish, sending 
it to the table with a bowl of sauce 4 la creme (No. 1133), but using two 
tablespoonfuls of the kummel instead of the brandy for flavoring, as 
described in cocoanut pudding (No. 1147). 

1174. Turban of Apples au Biz.  Prepare half a pound of boiled 
rice as for No. 1172. Butter a mold holding three pints. Garnish the 
bottom and sides .with the rice, using a wooden spoon for the pur- 
pose. Peel, core, and cut into quarters six fine, sound, Newtown pip- 
pin apples. Put them into a saucepan with three ounces of pow- 
dered sugar, a gill of cold water, and half a saltspoonful of salt. Place 
the pan on a hot stove, put on the lid, and let cook for ten minutes. 
Remove, and fill the mold with eighteen of the pieces, reserving the other 
six for later use; then put it in a slow oven for twelve minutes. Use an 
ordinary towel to remove it from the oven. Lay a dessert-dish on top, 
turn over, and lift off the mold. Decorate the base with the rest of the 
apples, inclining them slightly; and the top with two ounces of cleaned 
currants (No. 1080). Garnish between the apples with four ounces of 
candied fruits, placing some on top. Pears, angelica, and cherries, all sliced, 
make a pretty effect. Return to the oven for five minutes, and serve. 
22 



338 THE TABLE. 



1175. Iced Timbale au Biz,  Line a timbale - mold holding three 
pints with a quarter of a pound of pie-paste (No. 1077). Have ready 
three-quarters of a pound of boiled rice (No. 1172). Peel, core, and cut 
into quarters three fine, sound apples; put them into a saucepan with two 
ounces of powdered sugar, one ounce of butter, half a gill of cold Water, 
and half a saltspoonful of salt. Cover, and let cook for ten minutes. Remove 
the lid, and add to the apples two tablespoonfuls of apricot marmalade 
(No. 1335). Stir slightly at the bottom for four minutes with the spatula, 
being careful to avoid breaking the apples. Cover the bottom and, sides 
of the timbale with half a pound of the boiled rice; pour in the apples, 
lay the remainder of the rice on top, and cover with an ounce and a half of 
pie-paste. Put the timbale into a moderate oven, and cook for thirty 
minutes. When the surface is of a good golden color, remove, and put 
aside to cool thoroughly, leaving it at least two hours. Turn it over onto 
a dessert-dish, remove the mold, and lay the timbale in a short, low, wide 
freezer; cover, then put it in a tub of nearly the same size, filling it well 
with chopped ice; sprinkle the top and sides freely with rock salt, and 
freeze thoroughly for an hour and a half. Remove the cover carefully 
to avoid any ice or salt falling into the freezer. Take out the timbale, and 
'wipe well the dish. Have ready one pint of whipped cream (No. 1254) 
with half a gill of maraschino; beat this well for two minutes. Pour it 
over the timbale, and send immediately to the table. Should there be no 
freezer handy, the timbale may be cooled by placing in the ice-box for 
three hours. 

1176. Croustade de Eiz Meringn^e.  On a floured board roll half a 
pound of f euilletage paste (No. 1076) into an oval shape , and a quarter of 
an inch thick. Lay it upside down on an oval dish ten inches long by six 
wide, and with a knife cut away the superfluous paste. Remove the 
dish, and place the oval paste in a baking-dish; then roll out the pieces 
which were cut away, and with a small fancy paste- cutter (No. i) cut 
it all up. With a small hair pastry-brush dipped in beaten egg, wet the 
edges of the oval, and arrange the pieces all around, crown-shaped. Bake 
this croustade in a moderate oven thirty minutes. Have ready six ounces 
of boiled rice (No. 11^2). Peel and core six medium-sized fine apples. 
Put them into a saucepan with two ounces of powdered sugar, a, gill of 
cold water, and half a saltspoonful of salt. Put on the lid, and let cook 
on a slow fire for twenty minutes. Arrange half the rice on the croustade, 
dress the apples over, and fill up the cavities with the rest of the rice. 
Add to the juice of the apples in the pan two ounces of apricot marma- 
lade (No. 1335). Mix well for two minutes and pour it over the whole. 
Then set it in a slow oven for fifteen minutes. Remove, and beat up two 
eggs as for a meringue (No. 1247), mixing in two ounces of powdered 
sugar. Put this into a pastry-bag (No. 1079), and decorate the surface of 
the croustade artistically with it, sprinkling a little sugar over. Return 
it to the oven for five minutes, to get a good color. Pass a knife gently 
under the croustade, and dexterously slide it from the baking-pan onto a 
hot dessert-dish, and serve. 



DESSEJirs. 339 



1177. Rice with Milk.  Cleanse well a quarter of a pound of fine Ital- 
ian rice. Place it in a saucepan with halt a pint of water, adding half a 
pinch of salt, the zest of half a lemon, and one bay-leaf. Cook slowly for 
twenty-five minutes. Then put in three tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar and a pint of hot milk; finish cooking on a slow fire for ten minutes, 
and serve in a hot, deep dish. 

117S. Bice \k. la Tnrqne.  ^Wash well a quarter of a pound of rice, and 
blanch for ten minutes in boiling water. Put it into a saucepan, with a 
pint of milk, and let cook firmly; adding three tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar, and a lump of sugar onto which has been rubbed the peel of half a 
small lemon; also half an ounce of good butter, one ounce of cleaned cur- 
rants (No, 1080), and a saltspoonful of salt. After twenty minutes, 
remove from the fire and thoroughly stir in the yolks of four eggs. Place 
this in a croustade, as for 1176, and put it in a slow oven for fifteen min- 
utes. Remove, sprinkle with a little sugar, pass a hot shovel or salaman- 
der over the top; glaze it well, and serve it once. 

1179. Bice & I'lndienne. ^Prepare the rice as for the above (No. 
1178), adding the third of a glassful of rum and a small infusion of 
diluted powdered saffron, to give it a good color. Serve glazed, as for 
the preceding (No. 1178), 

1180. Bice k la Fran^aise,  Wash well, and blanch in boiling water 
for ten minutes, one-quarter of a pound of Italian rice. Boil in a sauce- 
pan with an ounce of butter, adding three tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar, a pint of milk, two bitter almond macaroons (No. I20g), half a tea- 
spoonful of orange-flower water, half an ounce of candied orange-peel cut 
into shreds, about twelve candied cherries cut into halves, and twelve 
large, seeded. Muscatel raisins (No. 1081); also a quarter of an ounce of 
thin slices of candied angelica. Finish as for rice k la Turque (No, 11 78), 
and serve with a sauce thickened with a gill of Alicante or Val-de-peras 
wine, or sherry, kirsch, or rum, 

1181. Bice k la Cond^. Boil one pint of milk with one pint of water. 
When boiling, add four ounces of well-cleaned rice. Boil twenty-five 
minutes, stirring at the bottom every three minutes with a spatula. Set 
the saucepan on a table ; add half a saltspoonful of salt, four ounces of 
powdered sugar, and six drops of orange-flower water. Mix well for orte 
minute, break in three whole eggs, and stir again for two minutes. 
Arrange the rice nicely in a hot dessert-dish, keeping it high in the centre, 
and decorate with twelve pieces of stewed peaches (No. 1332), two ounces 
of dried currants (No, 1080), and one ounce of candied angelica cut in 
small lozenge-shaped pieces; beginning with the peaches on the top, and 
arranging the remainder of the fruit around, 

1182. IfoniUes, or Noodles.  Sift onto a table one pound of flour; make 
a hollow space in the centre, and place therein six egg yolks, half a gill 
of lukewarm water, one ounce of fresh butter, and half a saltspoonful of 
salt. Knead these thoroughly for five minutes; then mix in the flour 
gradually, and knead again for five minutes. Pile up the paste into a 
lump, flour the table slightly, and use the left hand to press the paste 



340 THE TABLE. 



down in the centre, and with the right bring up the edges all around. 
Continue to repeat this for five minutes. Roll the paste into a ball, put 
it on a dish, cover with a napkin, and set it in a cool place to rest for 
fifteen minutes. Roll it out to the thickness of a fifty-cent piece. With a 
knife cut it into strips two inches wide, and from these, beginning at the 
end of each, shred it with the knife into narrow pieces resembling matches. 
Leave these to dry slightly on a floured board for thirty minutes, and they 
will be ready for use. 

1183. Buckwheat Cakes.  Dilute one drachm of compressed yeast with 
a gill of lukewarm water, and let it rest for ten minutes. Add it to a half 
pound of buckwheat flour in a basin, pouring in a pint of cold water, and 
season with a light pinch of salt. Mix thoroughly with the spatula, cover 
the basin with a cloth, and let rest for four hours. 

Have a griddle large enough to hold six cakes. Grease lightly with a 
piece of fat pork-rind, and place it on a hot stove. Pour half of the batter 
into the six sections of the griddle, distributing it evenly. Bake two and 
a half minutes, turn over and bake two and a half minutes longer. Heap 
them on a hot dessert-dish. Make the other six exactly the same way. 
Send to the table with honey or maple sugar separately. 

1184. Wheat Cakes.  Put into a vessel four ounces of sifted wheat 
flour, half an ounce of powdered sugar, one drachm of compressed yeast. 
Break in four whole eggs, and mixwell with the spatulafor three minutes. 
Add half a pint of cold milk, and beat well with the pastry-whip for four 
minutes. Strain through a sieve into another vessel. Place on the stove 
a small griddle, greasing the surface lightly. Drop about two ounces of 
the batter onto the griddle; bake ten seconds; turn it with a cake-turner, 
and bake ten seconds on the other side. See that the cake is a light brown 
color on both sides. Put them on a hot dish, keeping it warm on a corner 
of the range, and proceed to make eleven more with the remainder of the 
batter. Serve very hot, with honey or maple sugar separately. 

1185. Batter for all Kinds of Frying.  Put half a pound of flour into 
a basin. Make a hollow in the centre, and drop into it one egg yolk, half 
a teaspoonful of sweet oil, a tablespoonful of brandy, and a light saltspoon- 
ful of salt. Mix all the ingredients, except the flour, for three minutes, 
using the hand. Then gradually knead in the flour, meanwhile dropping 
in, little by little, one gill of cold water. Mix well, moving in the same 
direction' for five minutes. Then put it into a vessel, cover with a cloth, 
and set aside to rest for three or four hours. When ready to use, beat 
the whites of three eggs to a froth with a pastry-whip, add it to the batter, 
and mix together thoroughly with the spatula for two minutes. It will 
now be ready for use, but should it not all be required, it will keep in a 
cool place. 

1186. French Pancakes.  Sift half a pound of wheat flour into a bowl. 
Break in three whole eggs. Add one ounce of powdered sugar, and mix 
well with the spatula, adding half a pint of cold milk, pouring it in very 
gradually, and mixing for five minutes. Butter lightly a griddle or frying- 
pan; place it on the stove, and when it is hot, drop on to it two and a half 



DESSERTS. 341 



ounces of the batter, and bake two minutes ; turn over, and bake the 
other side as long. Turn the pancake on a hot dessert-dish, and sprinkle 
over plenty of powdered sugar. Make eleven more out of the remaining 
batter. Serve very hot. 

1187. French Pancakes h la Gelee.  Make the batter exactly the same 
as for No. 1186. When qooked, arrange the pancakes neatly upon a nap 
kin, and spread over each one about a teaspoonful of currant jelly. Poll 
them up nicely, and dress on a hot dessert-dish, sprinkling a. little pow 
dered sugar over. Then, with a red-hot iron, glaze the surface of each cake 
in three different parts ; wipe the sides of the dish nicely, and send to the 
table. 

French pancakes with apple, apricot, plum, pineapple, strawberry, 
raspberry, or peach jelly are to be prepared exactly the same, using differ- 
ent jellies. 

1188. German Pancakes.  Prepare a batter as for French pancakes 
(No. 1186) ; butter an iron pan, one foot in diameter an^ one and a half 
inches deep. Place this on a hot stove, and pour all the batter into it, 
letting it cook for three minutes. Remove to a brisk oven for seven min- 
utes. Take it out, slide the cake carefully on a hot dessert-dish, and send 
it to the table with six pieces of lemon. 

1189. German Pancakes with Apples.  Prepare the batter exactly as 
for No. 1186. Butter the pan as for the above. When the batter has been 
poured in, spread over it evenly, one pint of preserved apples, cut into 
small pieces, and finish cooking exactly as for the plain pancake (No. 11 88). 
When ready, slide it carefully on a hot dessert-dish, sprinkle plentifully 
with powdered sugar, and send to the table very hot, with six pieces of 
lemon separately. 

1190. Batter for Fritters.  Mix a quarter of a pound of sifted flour in 
a small basin, with half a pint of lukewarm water, to which three-quar- 
ters of an ounce of fresh butter has been added. Place in a saucepan, 
which should be tilted on the range so that when the water boils the 
butter can be skimmed off the top. Add, if necessary, a little more water 
to make a soft paste, beating well with a spatula, to keep it free from 
lumps, and of a proper consistence ; it must be gray and compact-looking. 
Add just a little warm water to render the paste soft and diluted, although 
sufficiently thick to cover the objects for which it is intended ; that means, 
it must drop easily from the spoon. Add to this half a pinch of salt and 
two egg-whites ; beat well together for one minute, and use at once. 

1191. Apple Fritters.  Take three medium-sized, fine, sound apples; 
peel and core them neatly. Cut each into six equal round slices. Place 
them in a vessel, pour over a gill of good brandy, add a light saltspoon- 
ful of ground cinnamon, and let all steep for two hours. Strain them 
through a fine sieve, being careful to keep them whole, and saving the 
liquid for further use. Prepare a fritter batter, as for No. 1190, dip each 
slice separately into it, and with a spoon, drop them singly into very hot 
but not boiling lard, being careful to remove them with a skimmer as 
soon as they are of a good golden color. Two minutes will be sufficient 



542 THE TABLE. 



to have them properly done. Then lay them on a. clean cloth, to dry off 
the grease. Arrange a folded napkin on a hot dessert-dish ; arrange the 
fritters on it, and leave it at the oven door for two minutes. Dredge 
about an ounce of powdered sugar over, and serve. 

1192. Fritters Souffles & la Tanille. Infuse in a saucepan half of a 
vanilla-bean in half a pint of boiling milk, and reduce it to half. Remove 
the vanilla-bean, and put in one ounce of godd butter. Let it come to a 
boil, then add two ounces of sifted flour, and with the spatula stir briskly, 
to form a paste so stiff that it will no longer adhere to the saucepan. 
Remove it to another vessel. Add one ounce of powdered sugar, two 
egg yolks, and half a saltspoonful of salt. Beat the white of one egg to 
a stiff froth, and mix it in with half a spoonful of whipped cream (No. 
1254) ; this will form a consistent paste. Roll it on a floured board, 
besprinkle lightly with flour, and cut out pieces the size of a walnut. 
With a skimmer drop them' into very hot but not boiling fat. Cook 
quickly for three minutes, until they are a fine golden color. Arrange upon 
a folded napkin, and serve with-powdered sugar sifted over. 

1193. Found Cake.  Put in a vessel half a pound of butter, with half 
a pound of powdered sugar. Grate in the rind of half a lemon, and with 
the hand knead well for twenty minutes. Break into a plate five whole 
raw eggs; add gradually and carefully, kneading sharply with the hand 
for ten minutes longer. Now add half a pound of well-sifted flour, mix- 
ing the whole slowly and thoroughly for five minutes more. Butter a 
two-quart, round Cake-mold, and line it with brown paper at the bottom 
and sides. Fill it with the preparation, and put it in a slow oven to bake 
for fully one hour. Remove, and let cool off for about two hours. 
Unmold, detach the paper, and lay it on a pastry wire-grate. Glaze the 
top and sides with a preparation as for vanilla Eclairs (No. 1245). Lay the 
cake on a dessert-dish with a fancy white pape^. Prepare three ounces of 
candied cherries, two ounces of angelica, two ounces of red and the same 
of white pears, both candied; cut the cherries in two, the angelica lozenge- 
shaped, and the pears each in six parts (except one white one, which is 
kept. whole), keeping the fruits all separate. Place the whole pear on top 
of the cake in the centre, stem upward. Then decorate thus : at the base 
of the pear lay two slices of red pear, carefully, one against the other on 
one side. Repeat on the other side, and arrange [in the same way two 
slices of the white pear in the middle of the space on one side, and two 
more slices opposite. Now cover the four empty spaces nearest the pear 
with half a cherry each, and arrange four angelica lozenges in the empty 
place at the end of the layers of pear. Then on ea^ch of the four angelica 
points lay half a cherry. Begin decorating the edge of the cake all around 
in a crown-shape with one angelica lozenge, putting near the point one 
half cherry, then another lozenge, and continue the same all around until 
joined. Arrange the remaining slices of pear in the empty space near the 
border, and it will be ready to send to the table. 

1194. Wedding Cake.  Place in a large bowl one pound of powdered 
Ugar and one pound of well-washed butter. Grate in the rind of two 



DESSEHTS. 343 

lemons; and with the hand knead well for ten minutes. Break in ten 
whole eggs, two at a time, and knead for ten minutes longer. Mix in a 
plate a teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, a teaspoonful of ground cloves, 
two of ground allspice, one of mace, and one of grated nutmeg, and add 
these, with half a gill of confectioners' molasses. Mix well for one min- 
ute with the hand. Add one pound of well-sifted flour, stirring for two 
minutes more. Add two pounds of currants, as for No. 1080, two pounds 
of Sultana (No. 1080), two pounds of Malaga raisins (No. 1081), one 
pound of candied citron, finely sliced, one gill of Jamaica rum, and one 
gill of brandy. Mix the whole well together for fifteen minutes  ^using 
both hands, if necessary. Butter the interior of a plain, five-quart, round 
cake-mold. Line the bottom and sides with paper, leaving it an inch and 
a half higher than the edge of the mold. Pour in all the preparation, and 
place it in a very slow oven to bake for five hours. When done, lay it On 
a table, to cool off for four hours. Unmold, detach the paper, and turn 
the cake bottom up on a wire pastry-grate. After ten minutes, glaze it 
with one egg-white which has been beaten in a bowl with four ounces of 
extra fine sugar, using the spatula; use a knife to apply the glazing. 
Now lay the cake in a warm place to dry for two hours. Then beat up 
the white of an egg with four ounces of extra fine sugar for ten minutes, 
and glaze the cake as before, evenly all around, and lay aside for two 
hours more. After it is thoroughly dried, lay it on a round wooden board, 
with a fancy paper over, two inches wider than the board. Procure a 
fancy wedding-bell, with a miniature bride and groom standing under, lay 
it in the centre of the cake, fastening it on with glace royale (No. 1206), 
pressing it through a paper cornet with a fancy tube. Decorate the sur- 
face of the cake with ornaments made of the glace; also a, fancy border 
around the edge and base. Let it dry slightly for two hours, and it is 
ready for use. 

1195. Sponge Cake. Put into a copper basin half a pound of pow- 
dered sugar. Break in seven whole eggs, and grate in the rind of half a 
lemon. Beat well together with the wire whip for one minute ; then 
place it on a slow fire and heat it slightly, stirring it sharply and continu- 
ally. Take it from the fire, and beat it well until thoroughly cold. Re- 
move the whip, and with a, skimmer mix in carefully and slowly half a 
pound of well-sifted flour; two minutes and a half will be sufficient. But- 
ter the interior of a one-quart, round cake-mold, and line it with paper, 
keeping it an inch and a half higher than the mold. Then fill it with the 
preparation, and bake for one hour and fifteen minutes in a. moderate 
oven. Let it cool thoroughly for two hours; unmold, place it on a pastry 
wire-grate, and glaze it the same as for vanilla Eclairs (No. 1245). Deco- 
rate artistically with a glace royale (No. 1206), arranging it in any desired 
fanciful design. Serve on a dessert-dish covered with a fancy paper. 

1196. Waffles, mth Sugar. tPut in a vessel three ounces of powdered 
sugar, one pound of flour, three raw eggs, three ounces of melted butter; 
mix all welJ together with a spatula for five minutes. Add a pint and a 
half of sweet cream, and mix again well for two minutes. Have your 



344 ^^-^ TABLE. 



waffle-iron hot on both sides, and on a clear fire. Grease with melted 
butter, using a feather for the purpose, and drop into each . of the holes 
two tablespoonfuls of the paste. Bake two minutes on each side, and if 
they have not a good golden color bake one minute longer on each side. 
Heap them as fast as cooked on a hot dessert-dish. When all are done, 
besprinkle plentifully with powdered sugar, and serve very hot. 

1197. Savarin Cakes.  Dissolve two drachms of compressed yeast in 
a gill of lukewarm cream. Add four ounces of sifted flour, knead well 

, for two rninutes, and set in a warm place for five minutes. Sift into 
another vessel six ounces of flour. Make a hollow in the centre, and 
pour into it two ounces of powdered sugar, four eggs, a. gill of lukewarm 
milk, and a saltspoonful of salt. Knead these well for two minutes, but 
do not mix in the fiour. Add three ounces of melted butter and half a 
gill of curajoa (or any other liquor desired), then knead in the flour with 
the other ingredients, adding the yeast-dough previously laid aside, and 
mix with the hands, briskly beating the whole in a contrary direction for 
twenty rtiinute? without ceasing. Cover with a cloth, and set in a warm 
closet to raise double, wjiich will take about half an hour. Butter a 
crown-shaped mold holding about three pints. When ready, take two 
ounces of peeled almonds fNo. 1207), mince fine, and add them to the 
dough, and beat well together for two minutes longer. Then with a 
spoon drop the paste carefully into the mold ; this not being quite filled 
to the top. Set aside again in the warm closet until the paste raises to 
the edge ; then place in a moderately brisk oven for twenty-five minutes. 
Should the oven be slow, thirty-five minutes will be necessary. To 
ascertain whether the cake be perfectly baked , thrust the point of a lard- 
ing-needle into the centre, and should any dough adhere to it, the cake 
must be left in five minutes longer. 

When done, turn it out on a plain, round wire grate, and glaize it with 
a firm glace % I'eau made as follows : put into a sugar-pan one ounce of 
granulated sugar, with one tablespoonful of cold water, and let it come to 
a boil ; remove, and add immediately a tablespoonful of curajoa, mixing 
well together. Glaze the cake with this, then let cool. Place a folded 
napkin on a dessert-dish, dress the cake nicely on top, and serve. 

1198. Savarin Cake, hot. -Prepare a savarin cake exactly as for the 
above (No. 1197), and when unmolded, place it on a wire grate, but dd 
not glaze it. Pour into a saucepan a pint of cold water with five ounces 
of granulated sugar, and let boil for five minutes. Take it off, and add 
immediately half a gill of kirsch, mixing it in well. Place the grate with 
the savarin in a vessel, take hold of the handle with the right hand, and 
drop the syrup carefully all over the top; lift up the grate and cake. Re- 
move the syrup remaining in the vessel into the pan, boil it again; return 
the grate and cake to the vessel, and pour over the remaining syrup. 
Then, lifting the grate on one side, glide the cake carefully onto a dessert- 
dish. Put into a saucepan four ounces of candied cherrifcs with half a gill 
of kirsch. Stir it slightly until it comes to a boil and decorate the top of 
the cake with- it ; then serve. 



DESSERTS. 345 



1199. SaTarin Cake k I'Anglalse. Prepare a savarin cake as for No. 
1 197; when unmolded, place it on a wire grate ; do not glaze it. Cut it 
evenly through the centre, so as to make two equal discs. Garnish the 
top of the under one with four ounces of apricot marmalade (No. 1335); 
arrange the other half on top as carefully as possible, so that the cake has 
its origfinal form. Have a dessert-dish with a folded napkin ; dress the 
cake on top, and serve with a sauce-bowl of crfeme ^ l'Anglaise(No. 1200) 
separately. 

1300. Creme tt I'Anglaise.  Put into a saucepan two ounces of butter 
and one ounce of flour. Place on a slow fire, and with a spatula stir 
slightly for two minutes, adding two ounces of Sugar, half 1 gill of 
Madeira wine, and one gill of Middletown milk; stir well again for two 
minutes, to avoid its coming to a boil. Then take it from the fire, and 
immediately add half a gill of rum, stirring it slightly again. Pour the 
creme into a sauce-bowl and serve with the savarin. 

1201. Brioches.  Take half a pound of sifted flour, put two ounces of 
it into a vessel. Make a hollow in the centre, and put into this two 
drachms of compressed yeast and half a gill of lukewarm milk. Dissolve 
well the yeast with the milk for about one minute, then quickly beat in 
the flour for one minute. Cover the vessel with a cloth, and let it rest in 
a warm closet for fifteen minutes. Put in another vessel the remaining 
six ounces of flour, make a hollow in the centre, and put into it half a 
saltspoonful of salt, three whole eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sweet cream, 
two ounces of fresh butter, and one ounce of powdered sugar. Mi.x 
thoroughly with the hand, all except the flour, for three minutes, men 
incorporate the flour gradually, and beat it sharply with the hands for three 
minutes. Add one egg, beat oiie minute; add another, and beat one min- 
ute longer. Take four ounces of fresh butter, spread it in pieces over the 
paste, then mix in well for two minutes. The yeast being properly raised 
double by this time, add it to the other ingredients, and mix the whole 
carefully by cutting it several times with the hand, being sure to repeat 
this for at least five minutes. Cover the vessel with a cloth, and lay it in 
a closet or elsewhere, at a moderate temperature of about eighty degrees, 
for three hours, when it will be raised to twice the size. Then with the 
right hand cut it again into pieces in every direction, for about four min- 
utes. Then recover the vessel with the cloth, and leave it in a cool 
place for thirty minutes. Dredge a board with flour, pour the paste over 
it; then cut off a three-ounce piece, and lay it aside. With the hands roll 
up the remaining part of the paste into a ball. Butter well a round, two- 
quart mold, line it with paper, and put in the paste. Take the piece laid 
aside, and roll it pear-shaped with the hands. Make a small cavity in the 
centre of the paste in the mold, using a spoon. Arrange the pear-shaped 
piece in this, having the larger part on top. Then lay the mold on a 
baking-sheet ; glaze ' the top lightly with beaten egg, and put it in a 
moderate oven. After it has been in fifteen minutes, cover it with a 
buttered paper, close the oven door, and bake lor one hour more ; test it 
by thrusting in a larding-needle, and if no dough adheres to this the brioche 



346 



THE TABLE. 



is thoroughly cooked: if not, leave it in ten minutes longer. Remove 
from the oven, unmold, and let it cool. Dress on a dessert-dish with a 
folded napkin, and serve. i 

1202. Small Brioches.  Prepare the dough as for the above (No. 
1201), and when raised to twice the size, lay it upon a board which has 
been" lightly dredged with flour. Cut out a piece of three ounces, and lay 
it aside until needed, then cut the rgst of the paste into twelve equal 
pieces, and with the right hand roll them into separate balls. Lay these 
in a pastry baking-pan. Divide the paste laid aside into twelve parts, roll 
them out, and give each a pear-shape. With a spoon make a cavity in the 
centre of each ball, and put into each one of the pear pieces, having the 
larger part on the top. Leave them to rise in a closet for fifteen minutes; 
glaze them lightly with beaten egg, and put them in a brisk oven for twelve 
or fifteen minutes, but no longer. Remove, and with a light hair-brush 
glaze them all over with fresh butter. Keep in a wariti place until ready 
to serve. If the brioches should be required cold, do not glaze them with 
butter, but dress them on a dessert-dish with a folded napkin. It is better 
to prepare the paste the evening previous, covering it with a cloth, and 
leaving it in a cool place over night. 

1203. Brioche k la Cond^.  Have a brioche co^ied-as for No. 1201, 
and when done, cut it in two, crosswise. Then with a spoon spread over 
the top of the lower half four ounces of apricot maripalade (No. 1335), 
mixed with one ounce of melted butter. Then replace the other half on 
top. Put in a saucepan two ounces of candied cherries, four ounces of 
candied apricots, cut in slices, and four ounces of candied pineapple. Add 
half a pint of cold water, and boil well together on a hot fire for three 
minutes. Dress the brioche on a dessert-dish, pour the preparation over, 
and serve hot. 

1201. Brioches FInttes.  Prepare a brioche paste, as for No. 1203 ; 
lay it on a floured board, and cut it into twelve equal pieces. Roll out 
each one separately with the hands until it is ten inches, or three finger- 
lengths, long, rounding them into shape. Put them in a pastry baking- 
pan, and leave them in a closet to rise for ten minutes ; take out and 
glaze them lightly with beaten eggs, sprinkle them over with powdered 
sugar, and put them in the oven for ten minutes ; refcove, and dress them 
on a dessert-dish with a folded napkin, and serve when cool. These 
brioches will keep well for three or four days, and they are delicious 
when served with tea, coffee, or chocolate. 

1205. Allumettes.  Take three quarters of a pound of feuilletage (No. 
1076) ; spread it out twelve inches long to four inches wide. Cover with 
a thin layer of glace royale (No. 1206). Divide it into six even pieces ; 
put them in a pan, and let rest for five minutes. Then place in a moder- 
ate oven, and bake for forty minutes, until of a good golden color. Serve 
either hot or cold. 

1206. Glace Boyale for Allnmettes.  Put into a small bowl half the 
white of a raw egg and' two ounces of extra fine sugar, and beat well 
with a spatula, Drop in carefully iust one drop, and no more, of lemon 



DESSESTS. 347 



juice; beat again for five minutes, until ttiicliened ; it will then be ready 
for use. 

1207. How to Peel and Found Abnonds. Put the almonds into boil- 
ing water; let them, soak three minutes; strain, and lay them in cold 
water to thoroughly cool. Drain well again, and peel by pressing each 
almond between the thumb and fingers. Then put them into a sieve, and 
place them at the door of a slow oven to dry for ten minutes. Now pound 
them gently in a mortar, stirring well to prevent them from getting oily, 
and taking care to pound them very fine for at least ten minutes. Lay 
them on a cold dish, and use when needed. 

1208. Almond Cake Glac^.  Put a quarter of a pound of powdered 
sugar and a quarter of a pound of butter into a bowl; beat well together 
with a wooden spatula for ten minutes. Break in two eggs; beat well, 
and break in two more; continue beating, and break in two more (six in 
all), until well mixed together. Then grate in the peel of the third of a 
small lemon. Add two ounces of peeled and pounded almonds (No. 1207), 
and a quarter of a pound of flour. Mix gradually together for no longer 
than two minutes. Butter and sugar a round form holding one quart, 
and pour the preparation into it. Place it in a slow oven for one hour. 
See that it gets a good golden color. Take it out; let it get thoroughly 
cool, and remove from the mold. Lay it on a dish with a folded napkin. 
Glaze the top lightly with a small hair-bush, as for No. 1206, until it 
looks well, and send to the table. 

1209. Bitter Almond Macaroons.  Take a quarter of a pound of sweet 
almonds, and two ounces of bitter almonds: peel and pound them as for 
No. 1307. Put them into a bowl with twelve ounces of powdered sugar 
and the whites of two eggs. Mix thoroughly with a wooden spatula for 
at least five minutes. Then take a pastry-bag (No. 1079), slide down to 
the bottom of it a No. 3 tube (which should not be larger than a five-cent 
piece), and pour the preparation into the bag. Prepare a. pastry baking, 
pan; lay on it a piece of brown paper the full size of the pan (do not put 
it on the stove at present); then with the two hands press the preparation 
down gently into the papered pan, dropping it carefully into bits the size 
and shape of a silver quarter-dollar, trying to have them as near alike as 
possible, and taking care that each is entirely separated from the others. 
Take a damp towel and drop it gently on to the macaroons, so as to shape 
them perfectly. Then place the pan in a slow oven for twenty minutes. 
Before lifting them out, be careful that they are a good golden color. Let 
them get thoroughly cool. To remove the macaroons easily from the 
paper, wet part of a table; lay the paper over this for two minutes, and 
the macaroons will detach very easily. The above quantity will make 
about fifty macaroons. Put aside in a jar those not needed, as they will 
keep perfectly fresh for several days. 

1210. Sweet Macaroons.  Proceed as for bitter macaroons (No. 1209), 
only omitting the two ounces of bitter almonds, and substituting for them 
two extra ounces of sweet almonds, or six ounces in all. 

1211. Apple Cake.  Peel and core four fine, sound pippin apples. 



548 THE TABLE. 



Put them into a saucepan with two ounces of boiled and peeled chestnuts, 
and a piece of cinnamon an inch long. Toss well on the lire for ten min- 
utes, then transfer them to a copper basin, stirring in a teaspoonful of 
corn-starch, and adding a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar. Place 
on a slow stove for ten minutes, then put aside. When thoroughly 
cooled, add three egg yolks and one whole one ; mix well with a wooden 
spatula, and the preparation will be ready for use. Take a three-pint, 
square mold, butter it lightly, and with a small hair-brush sprinkle in a 
little powdered sugar, and pour in the prepared apple. Place the mold in 
a tin pastry-pan, filling the latter to half the height of the mold with cold 
water, and place the whole in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Take 
the mold from the pan, and lay on top of it a hot, deep dessert-dish, 
slightly larger than the cake ; turn the mold bottom up, and lift it off, 
leaving the cake on the dish. While the cake is in the oven, prepare the 
following sauce : mix in a* saucepan two egg yolks, one ounce of pow- 
dered sugar, half a pint of water, and half a teaspoonful of ground cinna- 
mon. Place on a brisk fire, and stir constantly for five minutes, not 
allowing it to boil. When the cream is ready, add half a glassful or a 
gill of rum, or any other kind of liquor. Mix well for half a minute, pour 
the sauce over the cake, and serve very hot. 

1212. St. Honors k la Rose Delmonico.  Peel neatly two medium- 
sized, sound, red oranges. Separate the sections carefully to avoid tear- 
ing the skin, as, should they lose any of their juice, they would become 
useless. Lay a sheet of paper over a tin pan, arrange the pieces of 
orange on top, and leave them in a warm place to dry for four hours. 
Wipe neatly twenty-four Malaga grapes, leaving on each about a quarter 
of an inch of stem, so that they shall remain firm while using them. Beat 
up a pint and a half of sweet cream k la vanille as for No. 1254, and lay it 
aside in a cool place until needed. Roll three ounces of pie-paste (No. 
1077) into a round piece eight inches in diameter. Lay it on a bakhig- 
sheet ten inches wide, and proceed to prepare a pate-^chou as follows : 

Put into a saucepan a gill of cold milk with one ounce of good butter, 
place it on a hot fire, and when boiling, add at once three ounces of well- 
sifted flour. Stir briskly with the spatula all round ; take it from the 
fire, set on a table, and add immediately a saltspoonful of powdered 
sugar, mixing well for one minute more. Break in an egg, stir briskly 
for one minute, break in another, mix again, and then another, mixing all 
together for two minutes. Slide down the pastry-bag (No. 1079) a tube 
(No. 3), pour in the above preparation, and press down the top with the 
hands onto the edge of the paste in the baking-sheet, so as to make an even 
border half an inch high, and with the remainder of the paste press down 
onto another baking-sheet into twenty-four small, round choux, half an inch 
in diameter, leaving them one inch apart., Glaze the surfaces with beaten 
egg, and place them in a brisk oven to bake for twelve minutes. Remove, 
and let them get thoroughly cold. Spread over the paste, inside the bor- 
der, two tablespoonfuls of apple sauce (No. 1328); then put it in a mod- 
erate oven to bake for twenty-five minutes. Remove, and put to cool for 



DESSERTS. 349 



thirty minutes. Make a paper cornet, cut off a quarter of an inch from 
the point, and put into it three ounces of currant jelly (No. 1326). Press 
this out gently, dividing it evenly into the twenty-four small choux. 
Cook one pound of granulated sugar as for No. 1264. Oil two square 
feet of the surface of a marble table, and place at hand the pan containing 
the sugai*. Plunge one of the grapes into this ; remove it immediately 
with a fork and lay it on the oiled table. Proceed the same with the other 
twenty-three, being careful to lay them one inch apart from each oth^r. 
Now dip twelve of the sections of prepared oranges into the sugar, one by 
one, and lay them on the oiled table exactly the same as the grapes. Dip 
carefully the surfaces of the small choux into the sugar, and lay them on 
the same oiled table. Then take the St. Honor6 bottom in the baking- 
sheet, and proceed to arrange it as follows : with the cooked sugar stand- 
ing on the right, lift the choux up, one by one, dipping one side of each 
lightly in the cooked sugar, arranging them on top of the p&te-4-chou 
border close together to form a crown. Should the sugar be too thick, 
return it to the stove, and let it boil up once ; then take it off, and dip the 
thin part of the oranges lightly in it, and lay them over the small choux, 
the thick part upward, each one adhering to the other, until they form 
the crown. Dip the tops of the grapes lightly into the same sugar, 
and place one on each join of the oranges, with another in the centre, the 
stems being upward ; attach to the small choux the six remaining grapes, 
dividing them evenly. Arrange a fancy paper on a dessert-dish, and lay 
the St. Honorfe over carefully, then take the fi-oth part only of the 
whipped cream ; transfer it to another vessel, and, with the whip, beat 
briskly for five minutes, adding half a gill of good cognac, a quarter of a 
gill of Swiss kirsch, and three ounces of well-pounded and sifted maca- 
roons (No. 1210). Mix well together for two minutes longer, and fill the 
empty space of the St. Honorfe with three-quarters of this preparation, 
keeping it as high as possible. With the use of the pastry-bag and fancy 
tube press down the rest of the cream, and decorate artistically the top 
and sides, taking care not to put any on the oranges, and send to the 
table. 

1213. Gingerbread k la Fraii<;al8e.  Make a hollow space in a pound 
of flour laid on the table. Peel and chop up very fine five ounces of 
almonds; put them into the hollow with a saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, 
the same quantity of ground cloves, four ounces of powdered sugar, and 
seven ounces of fresh honey. Knead the ingredients well for five minutes, 
then mix in the flour, and knead the preparation with the hands in all 
directions for fully thirty minutes without ceasing. Finish by forming it 
into a ball. Lay this on a dish, cover it with <t napkin, and place it in a 
temperature of about 60 for six hours. Lay the paste on a floured table, 
and roll it out eighteen inches long by twelve wide. Butter well a baking- 
sheet, lay the paste on top, and put it in a very slow oven to bake for 
forty-five minutes. Remove, lay the baking-sheet on the table, cut the cake 
immediately into small pieces, lozenge shaped, one and a half inches long 
by one inch wide, or any other shape desired; let cool off thoroughly for 



350 THE TABLE. 



about twenty minutes, then dress on a glass bowl, and serve. The above 
cakes can be glazed with a glace k I'eau, as for No. 1197, and served the 
same. 

1214. strawberry Shortcake.  Put into a vessel half a pound of 
powdered sugar with half a pound of well-washed butter, grate in the 
rind of half a sound lemon, andj with the hand, mix well for ten minutes. 
Break in five whole eggs, one at a time, meanwhile mixing for ten min- 
utes longer, always with the hand. Then add gradually half a pound of 
well-sifted flour, and mix for three minutes. Cover a baking-sheet with 
brown paper, place on top three tin cake-rings, nine inches in diameter 
and one inch high. Divide the preparation equally into the three rings; 
then place in a moderate oven to bake for thirty minutes. Remove, and 
allow the cakes thirty minutes more to cool. Lift up the paper, with the 
cakes, turn it upside down on the table, remove the paper, and detach the 
cakes from the rings by passing a knife all around. Pick and clean thor- 
oughly three pints of fine, sound, ripe strawberries; have a dessert-dish 
with a fancy paper over, lay one of the cakes on top of this, spread over 
evenly two tablespoonfuls of whipped cream (No. 1254), then cover 
with half the strawberries, nicely and evenly divided. Sprinkle liberally 
with powdered sugar, then cover with another cake, spread over the same 
quantity of cream as before, then arrange the other half of the strawber- 
ries on top; dredge again with powdered sugar, and lay the last cake over 
all, sprinkling with more sugar. Slide down a tube (No. 2) into a pastry- 
bag (No. 1079), put into it six tablespoonfuls of whipped cream i la vanille 
(No. 1254), and with it decorate the top of the cake in an artistic manner, 
and send to the table. 

1215. Blackberry Shortcake.  Prepare and 'proceed exactly the 
same as for strawberry shortcake (No. 1214), only substituting three pints 
of well-picked, and thoroughly cleaned, fine, sound, ripe blackberries for 
the strawberries, and serving the same. 

1216. Baba.  Have ready half a pound of the best flour, one drachm 
of compressed yeast, and half a gill of warm water. Put three ounces of 
the flour into a vessel, make a hollow in the centre, and in it lay the yeast 
and water; with the hands mix the yeast gently with the water for three 
minutes, then mix all together gradually for three minutes more. 
Cover the vessel with a towel, and leave it in the warmest 
place in the kitchen (not on the stove), and after thirty minutes it will 
rise to twice the size. Lay the remainder of the flour on the table, make 
a hollow in the centre, putting in it an ounce of powdered sugai' arid four 
raw eggs. Mix the sugar and eggs with the hands; then add a gill of 
cream and half a. gill of good Madeira wine. Season with a drachm of 
very fine salt, and mix all with the flour for five minutes. Make a hollow 
in the centre again, and into this put five ounces of good, fresh, soft butter; 
mix well again for two minutes. If the prepared yeast-dough be now 
raised to its proper height, mix the two pastes together {or at least five 
minutes; return it to the vessel, leave it in the same warm place, covering 
it as before. When rested one hour, have ready two ounces of cleaned 



DESSEI^TS. 



351 



Sultana currants (No. 1080), two ounces of cleaned raisins (No. io8i),and 
one ounce of finely chopped citron. Grease with cold butter the inside of 
a cylindrical copper or tin form large enough to hold three pints. If the 
paste be now raised to twice the size, mix in the raisins, currants, and 
citron, stirring for five minutes; put it in the mold, and lay it in a warm 
place (not on the stove) for another twenty minutes. Then place it in a 
moderate oven for one hour. When a good golden color, remove, and let 
it cool slightly. Place a round dish over the mold, turn upside down, 
lift off the form, and glaze the cake with a glace d I'eau (No. 1197). Deco- 
rate the top and dish with candied fruits, and send to the table. 

1217. Baba an Uadfere.  Prepare a baba cake exactly the same as for 
the above (No. 1216); but do not glaze it. Slit the cake in two, and remove 
the top piece. Pour a pint of cold water in a very clean pan, add half a 
pound of sugar and half a medium-sized sound lemon. Place it on the 
stove, and boil well for three minutes; then remove, and at once add a 
gill of good sherry wine and half a gill of cura9oa. Lay the top part of 
the cake in a round, flat-bottomed vessel. To avoid breaking it, a wire 
basket is recommended, with which it can be lowered carefully onto the 
pan. Pour gradually over it the prepared sauce; let it rest for two min- 
utes, then replace it carefully on top of the other half of the cake. 
Arrange it nicely on a dessert serving-dish, garnish tastefully with can- 
died cherries, and decorate the border with small, thin slices of candied 
pineapple. 

For Babaau Rhum, substitute Jamaica rum for the sherry. 

1218. Baba, Creme a la Yanille.  Prepare a baba cake as for No. 
1216. When removed from the mold and laid on a dish, cut it into six 
equal parts. Take six ounces of apricot marmalade (No. 1335), and pro- 
ceed as follows : take one piece of cake in the left hand, and with a knife 
in the right, cover both sides, where they were cut, with the marmalade. 
When finished, arrange the^ix pieces together on the dish, and'give them 
the same form as before they were cut; to be eaten with the following 
sauce (No. 1219). 

1219. Creme k la Yanille Sance.  Boil one pint of cold milk in a. 
saucepan; put three egg yolks into a small vessel with two ounces of pow- 
dered sugar, one ounce of flour, and a piece of vanilla-bean one inch long. 
Beat well together with a wire whip for two minutes. Pour this into the 
boiling milk. Stir again briskly with the whip until it boils once more ; 
remove from the fire, and add half a gill of maraschino. Beat again for 
one minute, and pour the cream nicely over the cake before sending to 
the table. 

1220. Home-made Cake.  Put into a bowl half a pound of sugar and 
half a pound of good butter. Mix thoroughly with the hand for fifteen 
minutes. Break four eggs, leaving the whites in a basin, and drop the 
yolks in with the butter and sugar. Mix again. Now beat the whites to 
a froth and add them to the other ingredients. Grate in half a saltspoon- 
ful of nutmeg; add half a pound of flour; mix well again; stir in two 
ounces of well-cleansed currants (No. 1080), and two ounces of peeled 



352 



THE TABLE. 



sweet almonds (No. 1207) cut into small pieces. Mingle all well together 
with the hand for five minutes, and with the other hand drop in one gill 
of brandy. Have a round cake-mold holding two quarts; butter it lightly 
with a hair brush, and sprinkle in a little sugar. Drop a third of the 
preparation into the mold; spread over it two ounces of candied orange, 
shred into thin slices; then add half of the remaining preparation; spread 
on top of it two ounces of shred, candied citron, and fill the mold with the 
rest. Lay a piece of brown paper over, and put the mold into a very mod- 
erate oven for two hours. Let it get a good golden color. Remove, and 
cool off in the mold, 'which will take about three hours. Remove the cake 
by turning it bottom up. Arrange a lace paper on a dessert-dish. Glaze 
the cake with a glace el I'eau (No. 1197), dress it on the dish, and deco- 
rate the top and border tastefully with assorted candied fruits. 

1221. Flfiin Galette.  Knead well and finely together in a vessel one 
pound of good flour with six ounces of fresh butter, one gill of cold water, 
and a. saltspoonful of salt. After ten minutes, when it becomes soft, roll 
it into a flat, circular cake  using a rolling-pin, well floured, to prevent 
its adhering. Place it in a baking-pan. Bake in a very slow oven for 
thirty-five minutes. When a nice light color, repiove and let it cool. Serve 
it on a dessert-dish, over a folded napkin. 

1222. Eice Cake.  Boil two ounces of rice for twenty-five minutes. 
When well done, drain, and add to it a short paste, made of half a pound 
of flour, six ounces of butter, two egg-whites, and half a saltspoonful of 
salt. Pound the paste and rice well together in a mortar, and have a bak- 
ing-pati covered with a. sheet of buttered paper; lay the paste on top, 
spreading it out about six inches square. Put it in the oven for twenty 
minutes. Remove it, detach it from the paper, lay it on a dessert-dish, 
with a folded napkin, and serve hot. 

Vermicelli cake is prepared the same way, only. the vermicelli should 
not cook longer than twelve minutes. 

1223. MiUe-feililles Cake.  Take a pound of short paste or feuille- 
tage (No. 1076), and divide it into five equal parts. Roll out each piece 
twelve inches long by four wide, then lay them in a baking-pan, sprinkle 
a little powdered sugar over, and place them in the oyen for ten minutes. 
Remove, and form the cake by laying these one on top of the other, with 
layers of preserves between, each layer being of different colored pre- 
serves. Put the fifth piece on top of the last layer for a cover. Then cut 
the cake into six equal pieces ; decorate either with different colored pre- 
serves, or with whipped cream (No. 1254), and serve on a dessert-dish 
with a folded napkin. 

1224. Almond Cake.  Make a plain paste in a vessel with four ounces 
of butter, three egg yolks, half a pound of well-sifted flour, four ounces 
of powdered sugar, a quarter of a pound of finely pounded almonds (No. 
1207), a saltspoonful of salt, and about six drops of orange-flower water. 
Mix and stir well fbr five minutes. It will then be of a proper consistency, 
spread it round about eight inches in diameter on a buttered paper in a 
pan, and with a light Jiair-bru'sh moisten the surface slightly with beaten 



DESSEJiTS. 353 



egg. Bake twenty minutes. Remove, detach from the paper, set away 
to cool, and serve. 

1225. Cake de Plthiviers.  Put in a vessel four ounces of pounded 
almonds (No. 1207), half a pound of powdered sugar, two ounces of 
chopped, candied lemon-peel, and a quarter of a pound of good, fresh but- 
ter. Mix in gradually four eggs, well beaten, and finish as for the almond 
cake (No. 1224), serving it the same. 1 

1226. Madeleine.  Rub the rind of two small lemons on a lump of 
sugar ; crush it very fine with a roller, mixing three ounces of powdered 
sugar with it. Put two ounces of this into a saucepan with two ounces of 
sifted flour, one egg yolk, and two whole eggs, two teaspoonfuls of good 
brandy, and half a saltspoonful of salt. Stir all together with a wooden 
spatula, and after two minutes, when the paste is well mixed, stir it again 
for one minute only. Put two vounces of good butter into a separate sauce- 
pan ; as soon as the scum rises, stir it carefully for one minute, and let it 
cool slightly. Then spread it well over the sides of a three-pint made- 
leine-mold. Put the saucepan containing the preparation on a very slow 
fire ; stir slightly to prevent it adhering to the bottom of the sauce- 
pan, and as soon as it becomes liquid take it off, and fill the mold. Lay it 
in a moderately heated oven for forty-five minutes ; remove, and let cool. 
Unmold it on a dessert-dish over a folded napkin, and serve. 

1227. Madeleine Printanifere.  Prepare {he cake as for the above 
(No. 1226) until the mold is ready to be filled. Butter the interiors of 
twelve small madeleine-molds, fill them with the preparation, lay them on 
a pastry baking-pan, and place them in a njoderate oven for twenty min- 
utes. Remove, let them cool, unmold, and turn them up-side down ; cut 
a piece from the thinnest part of the top of each madeleine to serve as a 
cover. With a dessert-spoon scoop out of each madeleine a cavity one 
inch deep, fill this with a plombifere k la vanille (No. 1294). Replace the 
covers, lay them on a wire grate, and, with abrush, glaze gently with glace 
k I'eau (No. 1197), flavored w\th two tablespoonfuls of strawberry juice, 
and sprinkle over with three ounces of well-chopped pistache. Place in 
the oven for one minute more ; then dress on a dessert-dish with a folded 
napkin, and serve. 

1228. Milan Cake.  One pound of flour, half a pound of butter, half 
a pound of powdered sugar, and four whole eggs. Sift the flour on the 
table. Make a hollow in the centre, and fill it with the sugar and butter, 
and the grated rind of a lemon. Knead well the butter and sugar for 
three minutes ; add the eggs, one at a time, and incorporate the flour 
slowly, so as not to burn the paste. Let it rest for about half an hour in a 
cool place. Then roll out about a quarter of an inch thick. Cut out six 
pieces with a round cake-cutter ; glaze the surfaces with beaten egg and 
milk, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. When cold, dress 
on a dessert-dish with a folded napkin, and serve. Keep the rest of the 
paste for further use, as it will remain sweet and fresh for two or three 
days. 

1229. Rum Cake.  Half a pound of flour, two ounces of sugar, three 

23 



554 ^^-^ TABLE. 



whole eggs, one ounce of butter, and two drachms of compressed yeast. 
Sift the flour on a board. Take one third of it ; make a hollow in its 
centre, and put into it the yeast and half a gill of warm milk. When the 
yeast is dissolved, mix well for one minute. Then put it into a. bowl, 
cover with a cloth, and let it rise in a warm place until twice the size. Take 
the rest of the flour, make a hollow in the centre, and put into it the 
sugar, eggs, and six drops of orange-flower water. Knead well together, 
slowly incorporating the flour ; then gradually add the butter and the 
prepared yeast-dough. Mix all together for five minutes ; return to the 
bowl, and again lay it aside to rise to twice its size. Butter well six 
round rum-cake molds, fill them about three quarters high wjth the 
dough, and let it rise until they are full; then lay them on a baking-pan 
in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Vhen well bisowned, remove, 
unmold, place them on a pastry-wire, and pour over them a sauce made 
thus : put a quarter of a pound of sugar in a saucepan with half a pint 
of water, adding half a sliced lemon. When boiling, take from the fire, 
and pour in half a gill of rum, then throw it over the cakes. Dress on a 
dish, and serve. 

1230. Bice Cake k la Mazzini.  Put a pint of cold milk into a sauce- 
pan on a hot stove, and when it boils add half a pound of well-cleaned 
rice and let it cook slowly for twenty minutes, stirring frequently to the 
bottom with a spatula. Then set the saucepan in a cool place for thirty 
minutes. Add six ounces of powdered sugar ; mix well for one minute, 
and break in three whole eggs ; flavor with eight drops of orange-flower 
water, mixing well together for three minutes longer. Take a quarter of 
a pound of pie-paste (No. 1077), roll it out very thin, and with it line a 
three-pint, round, channeled mold ; fill it with the preparation, and place 
it in a, moderate oven to bake for forty minutes. Rerriove, and let it 
become thoroughly cold, which will take an hour. Then unmold, and lay 
the cake over a round pastry - grate. Have a quarter of a pound of 
vanilla 6clair glazing (No. 1245), put it in a. saucepan, adding a teaspoon- 
ful of cold water. Place it on the hot range, and with a spatula mix it 
gently and thoroughly until it becomes lukewarm ; then pour it over the 
cake. Arrange the cake on a dessert-dish, and serve. 

1231. Biscnits k la Cuillfere, or Lady-flmgers. Put four ounces of 
powdered sugar and the yolks of five eggs into a small bowl. Beat thor- 
oughly with a spatula for five minutes. Put the whites of the eggs into 
a copper basin, and with a wire whip beat them to a stiff froth. Add to 
the sugar and yolks four ounces of flour ; mix together gently for half a 
minute, and immediately add the whites. Beat gently for one minute 
more, and. the preparation will be ready. Xake a well-cleaned pastry-bag 
(No. 1079), slide into it a No. 2 tube, and with a wooden spoon or small 
skimmer pour the preparation into the bag. When it is all in, close the 
upper part of the bag very firmly, and lay it aside for one moment. Take 
two separate sheets of solid, brown paper, each measuring seventeen 
inches long by five inches wide ; lay them on the table, one beside the 
other. Take hold of the lower part of the bag near the tube with the left 



DESSSXTS. 



355 



hand, and the upper part with the right, press with the latter, and drop 
the batter on the paper in straight strips four inches long by one inch 
wide. Make ten of equal size on each paper, being careful to leave an 
empty space of three quarters of an inch between each. Then with a 
sugar-dredger sprinkle them lightly with powdered sugar three times, at 
one minute's interval between each sprinkling. When finished, lift up 
one paper at a time, keeping it perfectly straight, and shake off the loose 
sugar, being particular that the biscuits , do not detach from the paper. 
Now lay them in a pastry baking-pan, and let rest for two minutes ; put 
them into a slow oven, and bake for twenty minutes, until of a light golden 
color. Remove, lift them from the pan, and lay on a table to cool off. 
Have ready a dessert-dish with a folded napkin, then detaching the bis- 
cuits gently from the paper with the hands, dress them neatly on the 
dish, and send to the table. 

1232. Biscuit h, la Riclielien.  Put half a pound of sugar, half a pound 
of peeled and pounded almonds as for No. 1207, and four egg yolks into 
a bowl, and with a spatula mix well together for two minutes. Place the 
whites of eight eggs in a copper basin, with half a saltspoonful of salt, 
and with a wire whip beat them to a, stiff froth ; add this to the above 
preparation, with three ounces of melted butter, three ounces of flour, and 
a teaspoonful of vanilla flavoring. Mix slowly together for three min- 
utes. Butter a plain mold holding three quarts ; line the interior thor- 
oughly, and pour in the preparation ; place it in a moderate oven for an 
hour and a half, then remove, and let it cool, and unmold. Dress on a 
dessert-dish with a folded napkin, and serve. 

1233. Biscuit k la Livornaise.  Prepare the paste exactly as for the 
above (No. 1232), and when ready have a square tin pan, lined all through 
with paper. Spread the paste over an inch thick with a knife, and put it 
in a moderate oven for^ighteen minutes. Take it out, and when cool 
lay the cake on a table ; detach the paper, sprinkle the surface freely 
with powdered sugar, and cut it into any shaped pieces desired. Dress 
on a dessert-dish with a folded napkin, and serve. 

1234. Petits Biscuits Ainbrosiennes..  Proceed the same as for biscuits 
k la cuillfere (No. 1231). After the paste has been placed in the bag, have 
a well-cleaned pastry baking-pan, well buttered and lightly sprinkled with 
flour. Drop the paste carefully into the pan, forming biscuits, each 
about two inches long, by one inch wide. There should be in all about 
forty biscuits. Place them in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Re- 
move, and lay them on a table. With a hair-brush spread over them six 
ounces of apricot marmalade (No. 1335), and glaze them with a glace k 
I'eau (No. 1197), flavored with half ^ gill of white curayoa. Sprinkle 
over them four ounces of finely chopped pistaches; shake the pan lightly, 
and they will adhere to the-glace. Set for two minutes in the oven to get 
dry ; remove, and when cool, dress neatly in a glass bowl, and serve. 

J 235. Almond Biscuits.  Take two ounces of sweet almonds and half 
an ounce of bitter, peel, and pound them as for No. 1207. Then put them 
in a vessel with eight ounces of powdered sugar. Add the yolks of five 



356 THE TABLE. 



eggs, and beat the , preparation thoroughly for five minutes; then 
separately beat the whites to a froth with a pastry wire whip, and mix in 
with the yolks and sugar, adding also one ounce of flour. Stir thoroughly 
with a wooden spatula until perfectly firm, which will require about five 
minutes. It is now ready. Have six paper boxes, any shape desired, 
and fill them with the preparation, using a tablespoon for the purpose. 
Sprinkle the tops with a little finely powdered sugar, arrange them in a 
pastry baking-pan, and put in a slow oven for fifteen minutes ; they must 
get a good golden color. Remove, and when cooled off, dress nicely on a 
dish, and serve. 

1236. Chausson Cakes.  Roll half a pound of feuilletage paste (No. 
1076) into a piece eighteen inches long by three wide, and pare off the 
edges lightly. Cut out six square pieces, all the same size, and with a 
pastry-brush moisten the surfaces with beaten egg. Fold up each piece 
by laying one corner over the other, so they will have a triangular shape. 
Put them on a baking-sheet in the oven for twenty minutes; remove them 
to the oven door ; dredge plenty of powdered sugar over, put them back, 
and close the door for one minute and a half, to allow the sugar to melt 
thoroughly. Remove from the oven, and cool for twenty minutes. The 
cakes will have risen about two inches in front.- Then, with the thickest 
part of a larding-needle, make a hollow in front of each cake. Put three 
ounces of currant jelly (No. 1326) into a paper cornet, and with it fill the 
insides of the cakes. Dress them on a dessert-dish with a folded napkin, 
and serve. 

1237. Petites BoucMeS des Dames.  Put into a pastry-bag (No. 1079) 
half the quantity of biscuits-a.-la-cuill6re preparation (No. 1231). Butter 
and iiour a baking-sheet, and form about fifty small, round biscuits tho 
exact shape of macarobns. Sprinkle slightly with powdered sugar, and 
place in a brisk oven to bake for twelve minute's. Remove, and set to 
cool for fifteen minutes. Then lift them from the pan, and lay them up- 
side down on a table. With a knife make a small cavity in the centre of 
each, half an inch in diameter, and fill these with a pastry cream (f^o. 
1242). Fasten them, two by two, to enclose the cream; they will then be 
ball-shaped. .Dip carefully one after the other into a glace preparation 
as for chocolate 6clairs (No. 1243). Lay them on a pastry-grate to 
dry for' fifteen minutes; then dress on a dessert-dish with a folded napkin, 
and send to the table. 

1238. Petites Bouch^es k la Mrs. Astor.  Butter arid flour a baking- 
sheet. Put into a pastry-bag (No. 1079) half the quantity of the biscuits- 
jl-la-cuillfere preparation (No. 1231), and drop it on the baking-sheet into 
Lima-bean-shaped pieces, one and a half inches long by half an inch wide. 
Sprinkle them lightly with powdered sugar, and place them in a brisk, 
oven to bake for twelve minutes. Take then^ out and let them cool for 
fifteen minutes, then put them on a. table upside down, and in the 
middle of each one cut a hole one inch long by a quarter of an inch wide. 
Fill the holes with apricot marmalade (No. 1335), then unite them, two by 
two, so as to enclose the marmalade and be the perfect shape of Lima 



DESSERTS. 



557 



beans. Glaze them neatly by dipping them separately into a glace prep- 
aration as for 6clairs h. la vanille (No. 1245), and lay them at once on 
a pastry-grate to dry for fifteen minutes. Dress them on a dessert- 
dish with a folded napkin, and serve. The remainder of the paste may 
be used the following day. 

1239. Fancy Almond Cakes.  Peel and pound half a pound of 
almonds as for No. 1207; then add two egg whites; when thoroughly 
pounded, put them into a vessel with ten ounces of powdered sugar, and 
the grated rind of a good lemon; then, with the hand, knead well together 
for twenty minutes. Slide a fancy tube (No. 3) into a pastry-bag (No. 
1079), and pour in the above preparation. Cover a baking-sheet with 
brown paper, and holding the top of the bag with the right hand, guide 
the bottom with the left, and press the paste through onto the paper in 
small round bits one inch wide and half an inch high. Make ten of these, 
being careful to keep them one inch apart. Make ten more, shaped like 
the letter S, using the same quantity as for the others; then ten more, 
crescent-shaped, or like the letter C; and with the remainder of the paste 
make ten more, heart-shaped, being careful to keep them from touching 
one another. Take five candied cherries, cut them in halves, and arrange 
them on top of the round cakes; have twenty dried currants (No. 1080), 
and place one on each end of the S. Cut a candied apricot ii^ two, and each 
half into five slices, and lay them on top of the crescents, and lastly have 
one ounce of candied angelica- cut into very thin strips, and arrange them 
nicely on the heart-shaped pieces. 

It would be advisable to prepare these cakes the evening before they 
are needed, and lay them aside in a warm place over night. The next 
morning, glaze them lightly with beaten egg, using a pastry-brush, and 
place them in a brisk oven to bake for ten minutes. When of a nice brown 
color, remove, and let them become thoroughly cold. Lift them up care- 
fully with the paper, laying them gently upside down on a table, and 
with a wet towel moisten the paper, so that the cakes will detach easily. 
Turn the paper over immediately as it stood before, let rest for two min- 
utes; then remove the cakes. Lay them on a pastry-grate upside down, 
to allow them to dry for thirty minutes. Dress them on a glass stand 
with a folded napkin, and send to the table. 

1240. Pate-k-Chou.  Put into a saucepan two gills of cold milk and 
fwo ounces of butter. Place it on the range, stir slightly with the spatula, 
and when boiling, immediately add a quarter of a pound of well-sifted flour ; 
stir briskly for two minutes. Then stand. the pan on a table. Break in one 
egg; mix sharply for two minutes, break in a second egg, mix sharply again ; 
and repeat with a third and a fourth egg; then the pite-i-chou is ready. 

1241. Eclairs.  Arrange in a pastry-bag (No. 1079), a tube (No. 3); put 
into it the above quantity of pate-a.-chou (No. 1240), and press out upon a 
baking-sheet fifteen Eclairs, each one three inches long. Bake them in a 
hot oven for twenty minutes. Remove, and let them cool; then with a 
pair of scissors open each 6clair on one side, and with a spoon fill the 
interiors with a crSme patissifere (No. 1242). 



358 



THE TABLE. 



1242. Greme Patissiere.  Put a pint of .-old milk into a saucepan, and 
place it on the stove. Mix in another vessel two ounces of powdered 
sugar, with one ounce of flour, and half an ounce of corn-starch. Break 
in two whole eggs, and beat well together with the whip for two ihinutes. 
When the milk is boiling, add it to the preparation, and after stirring for 
one minute longer, put it into another saucepan, and place it on the stove. 
Beat well until it comes to a boil; then remove from the fire, and add 
immediately a teaspoonful of vanilla essence. Mix thoroughly again for 
one minute longer; then pour it into a bowl, and let it get cold. 

1243. How to Glaze Eclairs with Chocolate.  Put in a saucepan one 
pound and three quarters of granulated sugar and a gill of cold water. 
Place on the stove, and with a spatula mix well until the sugar is thor- 
oughly melted, and when boiling remove from the stove, and pour it 
gradually on a marble slab, on which it will spread about three feet 
square. Let it cool off for ten minutes. Then cut two ounces of cocoa 
into small pieces; ,put them on a plate, and leave them at the oven door to 
melt. With a spatula begin working the sugar that is on the marble as 
rapidly as possible in every direction until it begins to whiten; then add 
the melted cocoa, mixing it thoroughly again until it becomes hard; 
remove the spatula, and detach the preparation quickly from the marble 
with a knife. Put it into a vessel, and covering it with a damp cloth, let 
it rest for thirty minutes. Then place half of it in a saucepan on the hot 
stove, and with the spatula mix thoroughly and slowly until it is luke- 
warm, meanwhile adding a teaspoonful of cold water. Take the Eclairs, 
one by one, and with the hand dip them into this preparation. Lay them 
on a pastry - grate ; let them cool off for five minutes ; dress on a 
dessert-dish with a folded napkin, and serve. 

Keep the rest, of the preparation for further use. When laid aside in 
a cool place, and properly taken care of, .it will be as good in two weeks' 
time as when freshly made. 

1244. Eclairs an Caf6.  Hkve a pite-^-chou ready, as for No. 1240; 
then proceed to make the feclairs. Bake, and fill them with a crSme patis- 
sidre (No. 1242) exactly as for the chocolate eclairs ; glazing them the same 
as for No. 1243, only instead of cocoa use half a gill of coffee essence 
(No. 1263). Serve precisely the same. 

12^5. Eclairs k la YaniUe.  Prepare a pite-a-chou as for No. 1240. 
Make the Eclairs, bake, and fill them with acreme patissifere, as No. 1242. 
Glaze them as for No. 1243, only substituting two teaspoonfuls of vanilla 
essence for the cocoa, and serving them the same. 

1246. Chonx Si la Creme. -Prepare a pate-^-chou as for No. 1240, and 
put it into the bag. Press it down onto a baking-sheet into six round, equal 
cakes, about two inches high. Glaze the surface of each with beaten egg. 
Bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Watch thefm ^carefully, and 
when they are of a good golden color, remove from the oven and let cool 
for half an hour. Make an incision on one side, about half-way in the 
cakes, using a pair of scissors. Fill the insides with creme patissifere 
(No. 1242), and close them again. Dredge well with powdered sugar, 



DESSERTS. 359 



and dress on a dessert-dish, with a folded napkin, before sending to the 
table. 

1247. Meringnes.  Put six egg whites into a copper basin, with a 
light half saltspoonful of salt, and with a wire whip begin beating slowly, 
but gradually increase until a stiff froth is obtained. Should it become 
grainy, beat briskly again, adding half an ounce of powdered sugar. 
(Eight minutes should suffice to have a proper froth.) Remove the whip. 
Have on a plate one pound of powdered sugar, and with a sptSula drop 
the sugar slowly and carefully over the froth, mixing it in meanwhile 
with the spatula. This should take about two minutes. Flavor it with 
any desired flavoring, and it will be ready for use. 

1248. Apples, Meringnees.  Have six fine apples cooked as for No. 
1169; dress them on a dessert-dish, filling the cavities with currant jelly 
(No. 1326)" then decorate all round and the tops with mfiringue, prepared 
as for No. 1247, half the quantity being sufficient. Sprinkle them moder- 
ately with powdered sugar; lay the dish on a baking-pan, and put it in the 
oven for five minutes. When a light brown color, remove, and serve 
either hot or cold. 

1249. Small Fancy Meringues & la Ch. C. Delmonico. Put into a 
sugar-pan one pound of granulated sugar with half a. pint of cold water, 
and place on the hot stove. Have two quarts of ice-water in a vessel, 
and when the sugar comes to a boil, dip the fingers of the right hand into 
the ice-water and pass them quickly around the inside of the pan, and let 
boil for five minutes. Dip a wooden stick, similar to a pen-holder, in the 
ice-water, then quickly into the boiling sugar, and again in the ice-water, 
lifting up the stick to feel the sugar that adheres. Should it not be suffi- 
ciently consistent to form into a ball, let boil a little longer; then try once 
more; and should it be a propft- thickness, remove from the fire and set 
it on the corner of the stove, so that it no longer boils. While the sugar 
is cooking, beat the whites of five eggs in a copper basin until they are a 
firm froth; and while beating, have an assistant pour very gradually the 
prepared, sugar into the egg-froth; and when all is added, lay the basin 
containing the preparation into a vessel half filled with ice-water. Remove 
the whip, and using a wooden spatula, mix gently for five minutes, add- 
ing a teaspoonful of vanilla flavoring. Cover the basin with a napkin, 
letting it rest for ten minutes. Butter and flour a baking-sheet; slide 
down a fancy tube (No. 3) into a pastry-bag (No. 1079), fill it with the 
preparation, press down onto the baking-sheet, giving a C-shape, two 
inches long by one wide, to forty of them; and then forming twenty more, 
shaped like the letter D. Sprinkle them lightly with powdered sugar; 
place in a very slow oven, and let bake for fifteen minutes. When baked, 
these cakes should be perfectly white. Remove them from the oven, let 
get thoroughly cold; dress on a glass stand, and send to the table. 

1250. Meringue-shells. Prepare a meringue as for No. 1247. Slide a 
tube (No. 4) down a pastry-bag (No. 1079); lay a piece of paper over a bak- 
ing-sheet, and after putting the meringue into the bag, press it out onto 
the paper, giving it an egg-shape, two and a half inches long by one inch 



360 THE TABLE. 



high. There will be enough to make eighteen equal-sized shells. Be 
careful to keep them one inch apart. Sprinkle over liberally with pow- 
dered sugar, and place in a very slow oven to bake thirty minutes. Re- 
move, and set to cool for twenty-five minutes. Then turn the paper con- 
taining the shells upside down on the table; and with a wet cloth or 
brush moisten well the paper; turn them over again, and let rest for two 
minutes, when the shejls will detach easily. With the finger press them 
gently, *ne by one, in the bottom, into a perfect shell-shape. Return 
them to the bakitig-sheet, laying them upside down, and put them in the 
6ven to dry thoroughly for ten minutes; then leave them to cool for thirty 
minutes more. Keep them in a dry place,, either in a tin or paper box, 
and use when required. Mferingue-shells prepared this way will keep 
nicely for at least twenty-five days. 

1251. Swiss Meringues Si I'HelT^tienne.  Have a mfirinfeue prepara- 
tion as for No. 1247; slide down in a pastry-bag (No. 1079) a tube (No. 4). 
Butter and flour a baking-sheet ; make on it one design eight inches in 
diameter ; another exactly the same shape, only six inches, and another of 
the same, only four inches. Put the meringue into the bag, and press it 
down gently over and around the first design, making the paste three- 
qjiarters of an inch thick ; repeat the same for the second and third forms. 
Press down in the pan some more mferingue, making a little cone four 
inches high, two inches in diameter at the base, and tapering gradually to 
a point at the top. Sprinkle the whole lightly with powdered sugar, and 
place the pan in a very moderate oven to bake for twenty-five minutes. 
Take it out, and let it thoroughly cool for half an hour. Have a quart of 
whipped creme S, la vanille (No. 1254), add to it half a gill of Swiss kirsch 
and half a gill of maraschino, and with a pastry-whip beat the whole 
together for three minutes. Have ready a round dessert-dish with a 
fancy paper over, detach carefully the largest form from the pan, lay it 
on the dish, detach the second, lay it over the first, and fill the hollow , 
space with half of the cream ; now detach the third and smallest piece and , 
lay it over the others, filling it entirely with part of the cream, and finally 
detach the cover, and arrange it nicely on the top. Pour the remaining 
cream into the pastry-bag containing the fancy tube, and with it decorate 
the places where the rings are joined. Then send to the table. 

1^252. Creme Eenvers^e.  Put in a copper sugar-pan three ounces of 
granulated sugar with half a. gill of cold water. Toss the pan briskly to 
melt the sugar well; then place it on the stove, and let it boil slowly until it 
becomes a light brown color. If a moderate fire, it will require four min- 
utes, but if a brisk one only two will suffice ; this will now be a caramel. 
Take a pudding-mold holding ' one quart ; line the interior with all the 
caramel, holding the mold in the left hand, and spreading it evenly all 
round. Put the mold in a cool place, and let it become thoroughly cold. 
Have one pint of milk in a. bowl ; break in four eggs, add a quarter of a 
pound of powdered sugar and a teaspoonful of lemon essence. Beat well 
for five minutes ; strain through a sieve into another bowl, and fill the 
mold with this cream. Place it in a tin pan filled with, water to half the 



DESSERTS. 361 



height of the mold, and place in a very moderate oven for forty-five min- 
utes. When of a good golden color remove, and cool for at least iv^o 
hours. Turn it on a dessert-dish, and serve with its own juice. 

1253. Crfinie en Mousse au CaK.  Take a pint of whipped cream as 
for No. 1254, add three (ablespoonfuls of coffee essence (No. 1263), and 
beat well together for five minutes. Transfer it to a china bowl, and put 
it in a cold ice-box. When ready to serve, use a spoon to drop the cream 
carefully upon the centre of a cold, round dessert-dish, keeping it as high 
as possible, shaping it into a pretty, artistic dome. Send immediately to 
the table. 

1254. Whipped Cream & la Tanille.  Put a pint of sweet cream into a 
basin. Have a tub or large dish-pan containing chopped ice and a little 
v.ater, and lay the basin on top. With a soft wire egg-whip beat the 
cream slowly at first, and increase in swiftness until it is a firm froth. 
Sweeten with two ounces of powdered sugar, and add a teaspoonful of 
vanilla flavoring, beating constantly. Let it rest, and use when needed. 
Remove all the superfluous milk which may be found with the cream, 
before using it. 

1255. Creme en Mousse au Rhum.  With a pint of fresh, sweet cream 
proceed as for No. 1254, adding a gill of rum, and beating well together 
for five minutes. Transfer, it into a. china bowl, and place in the ice-box 
until ready to use. When serving, have a cold dessert-dish, and with a 
wooden spoon drop the cream carefully into the centre of the dish, keep- 
ing it piled high as possible so to give it a pretty dome form, and send to 
the table immediately. 

1256. Creme en Mousse an Eirsch.  Proceed as for No. 1255, only 
substituting a gill of kirsch for the gill of rum ; serve in the same 
manner. 

1257. Creme en Mousse an Maraschino.  Prepared the same as crSme 
en mousse au rhum (No. 1255), substituting a gill of maraschino for the 
rum. 

1258. Creme en Mousse an Cognac.  The same as for No. 1255, add- 
ing a gill of cognac instead of the rum, but serving the same way. 

1259. Cr^me en Monsse au Cura^oa.  Substituting a gill of cura9oa 
for a gill of rum, and proceeding precisely the same as for No. 1255. 

1260. Crfinie en Mousse.  To be prepared exactly the same, only 
using a gill of any other liquor desired, and serving the same as No. 1255. 

1261. Charlotte Rnsse il la Creme.  Take six small, round charlotte 
russe molds two and a half inches high, three inches in diameter at the 
top by two at the bottom. When thoroughly cleaned, line them with 
biscuits 4 la cuillere (No. 1231), Cut them in two, and should they be 
higher than the mold, trim them off to the edge. Pour the whipped cream 
(No. 1254) into a pastry-bag (No. 1079), and fill up the molds. Turn them 
over onto six dessert-plates, spread a little more cream on the top of each, 
and cover them each with one macaroon (No. 1210). Dress the rest of 
the cream nicely around the plates, and serve. 

1262. Charlotte Ensse au Caf6.  Line and prepare six small charlotte- 



362 THE TABLE. 



molds as for the above (No. 1261), adding to the whipped cream two table- 
spoonfuls of coffee essence (No. 1263). Beat thoroughly together for two 
minutes, then fill the molds, and serve as for the above. 

1263. Coffee Essence. Take one ounce of good, ground coffee; place 
it in a small saucepan with half a pint of cold water, and let boil until 
reduced to about two tablespoonfuis. Then strain through a tloth, press- 
ing it well, and let cool thoroughly. Add it to the cream as described in 
No. 1262. 

1264. How to Cook Sugar.  Put into a sugar -pan one pound of 
granulated sugar, with half a pint of cold water; place it on a brisk stove. 
Kave a vessel containing two quarts of ice-water, and when the sugar 
comes to a boil dip the fingers of the right hand into the water, and quickly 
pass them all around the inside of the pan, being careful to avoid touching 
the sugar; repeat this two or three times. However difficult this opera- 
tion may appear, it is essential that it should be done, in order to have 
the sugar in a perfect condition. Take care to dip the fingers into the ice- 
water each time. Let the sugar boil; then squeeze in three drops of 
lemon juice. To know when it is sufficiently boiled, have a thin piece of 
wood the shape of a lar^ding-needle. Dip the point into the ice-water, and 
then plunge it into the boiling sugar; remove it quickly, and dip it imme- 
diately into the water again. Lift it out, and see whether the sugar adher- 
ing to the wood be thoroughly hard. If not, let boil again, and continue 
to test with the stick as before. To be certain that the sugar is perfectly 
done, place the point of the stick between the teeth, and bite it. Should 
the sugar stick to the teeth, it needs more boiling, but if it cracks easily 
without sticking, it is thoroughly done. Remove it immediately from the 
fire, and place the bottom of the pan in the ice- water to prevent the sugar 
from turning brown. 

The above cooked sugar can be used for glazing dried fruits and candied 
fruits of all kinds; also to fasten on pieces of of nougat, and to make any 
kind of caramels, etc., etc. 

1265. Burned Sugar.  Put into a small iron omelet-pan half a pound 
of granulated sugar, and place on a slow stove, to burn thoroughly for 
thirty minutes. Remove the pan to the table to cool slightly for five 
minutes, and then add half a pint of boiling water, mixing well with an 
iron spoon. Replace the pan on the stove, and boil for five minutes, stir- 
ring continually ; then strain the sugar through a sieve into a, vessel, and 
put in a cold place to cool thoroughly. Pour it into a bottle, and use 
when required. Burned sugar prepared this way will keep in perfect 
condition for several weeks. 

1266. Vongat.  Have ready four-ounces of peeled and dried almond 
(No. 1207). Cut each into four slices, and lay them in a tin pan with a 
sheet of paper under them. Put the pan in a warm place, but. not on the 
stove. Take a copper sugar-pah, or dropper, put into it six ounces of 
powdered sugar, and place it on a hot stove ; then with a. dry, wooden 
spatula stir continually, until the sugar is dissolved, ^eing careful to avoid 
browning it. Remove from the fire, add one drop of lemon juice, and let 



DESSEJiTS. 363 

it cool off slightly for three minutes, stirring constantly ; then add the 
almonds, mixing all gently with the spatula for two minutes. The nougat 
is now ready for use, and can be molded into cornets-d'abondance, columns, 
bases, or any shape the fancy may dictate. 

1267. Small Pyramid of Nougat. Oil slightly the interior of a 
small, round base. Take half the nougat, prepared as for No. 1266, 
lay it on a marble table (the nougat should always be hot), roll it out very 
thin with an oiled roller, and with this lin^the oiled base. Then with a 
whole lemon sharply press the nougat onto the mold to give it a perfect 
form, cutting it evenly away all around the edge. Put the pieces with 
the rest in the pan, and place near the fire to keep/ hot. Have a small 
comet-d'abondance (corniicopia), oil it slightly, and line the inside with half 
the remaining nougat, rolled out as before, and pressing it the same. Cut 
away all the superfluous part, and let it cool slightly. Then unmold both 
the base and cornet. Oil a tartlet-mold, and line it with the rest of the 
nougat. Lay the base carefully upon a glass stand of suitable size, the 
covered part uppermost, and fasten to the stand with cooked sugar (No. 
1264). With cooked sugar fasten the cornet ini the middle, small end 
uppermost, using cooked sugar for the purpose. , Put the remaining 
piece from the tartlet-mold on top of all, and fasten it in the same way. 
All this should be done carefully and patiently. Have ready two well- 
peeled, sound oranges, pull them gently to pieces, looking closely at each 
separate section to see that the skin is not broken or loosened. Have a 
quarter of a pound of fresh Malaga gApes, detach them, leaving on each 
grape about a quarter of an inch of stem. Take also two ounces of candied 
cherries, plunge the grapes into the cooked sugar (No. 1264), and with a 
fork lift them up, and immediately lay them on a well-cleaned, oiled, 
marble table. Treat the pieces of orange and the cherries each the same 
way. During this time, should the sug&r become cool, heat it up once 
more ; fill the cornet with these fruits, dipping one side of each piece into 
the cooked sugar to make t}iem adhere together. With a part of them fill 
the tart-shaped piece on top, proceeding in the same manner, and decorate 
with glace royale (No. 1269). 

1269. Glace Boyale.  Put'the white of one egg into a small bowl. 
Beat it well with a small spatula, adding six ounces of extra fine sugar, 
and squeezing in three drops of lemon juice. Then continue beating for 
twenty minutes. When finished, it should he snow-white and pulpy. 
Make a small brown paper cornet, cut off the lower end, slide down a 
small fancy tube, and pour in some of the glace royale, covering the 
remainder of it with a damp cloth. Then with the cornet decorate the 
edge of the nougat base as in the preceding (No. 1268), also the upper 
edge, and all around the edge of the cornet, and finish by decorating 
artistically the tart-shaped piece on top; then send it to the table. 

All nougat pieces, when finished, should be kept in a moderate 
temperature. 

1270. Blanc-manger k la Josephine Delmonico.  Peel neatly six 
ounces of sweet almonds and two ounces of bitter almonds (No. 1207). 



364 THE TABLE. 



Put in a vessel, cover with cold water, and let them soak for fully one 
hour. Drain thoroughly through a sieve^ and pound them well in a 
mortar, adding, little by little, a gill of cold watr, and continue pounding 
for ten minutes. Now remove to a vessel and add two gills of lukewarm 
water, and mix together with the spatula for two minutes. Spread a 
large napkin over another vessel, pour on the above preparation, lift up 
the four corners, and holding it with the left hand, squeeze the liquid 
through with the right. Lajf this almond milk aside for further use. Put 
into a saucepan two gills of cold water, half an ounce of gelatine, a piece 
of vanilla-bean two inches long and split in two, and four ounces of 
powdered sugar. Mix well with the spatula for two minutes; remove the 
spatula, put on the lid, and let infuse for thirty' minutes. Then place the 
saucepan on the hot stove, and stir gently from the bottom, allowing it to 
boil slowly for four minutes. Remove it from the fire, and let the pan 
rest on the table for three minutes. Pour in the almond milk, mix again 
for two minutes, using the spatula, and strain the whole through a fine 
sieve into another vessel. Have a three-pint, channeled blanc-manger 
mold; put some broken ice at the bottom of a pail, place the mold on it, 
arranging more broken ice around the sides, so that the mold be entirely 
sunk in the ice as far up as the edge. Stir the preparation for one minute, 
then pour it into the mold, cover the pail with a napkin, and leave it to 
congeal for one hour. Take up the mold carefully from the pail, wipe off 
the ice with a towel, and have ready a cold dessert-dish with a folded nap- 
kin over. Turn out the blanc-manger onto this ; decorate the surface with 
two ounces of candied cherries and one ounce of angelica, and it is ready 
for the table. 

1271< Tanilla Ice-cream.  Boil In a saucepan one pint of milk with 
half a vanilla-bean; put in a vessel half a pound of powdered sugar, and 
six egg yolks, and with a spatula mix thoroughly for ten minutes; then 
:add it to the boiling milk, stirring for two minutes longer, and .pour the 
whole into a copper basin, placing it on a moderate stove to heat for five 
minutes, stirring at the bottom continually with the spatula, and being 
careful not to let it boil. Remove from off the fire, place it on a table, and 
add immediately one pint of sweet cream, still mixing it for two minutes 
more; let cool off for thirty minutes, then strain through a sieve into an 
ice-cream freezer; put on the lid, and lay it in an ice-cream tub, filling the 
freezer all round with broken ice, mixed slightly with rock-salt; then turn 
the handle on the cover as briskly as possible for three minutes. Lift up 
the lid, and with a wooden spoon detach ,the cream from all around the 
freezer,- and the bottom as well. Re-cover it, and turn the handle sharply 
for three minutes more; uncover, and detach the cream the same as before, 
being careful that no ice or salt drops in. Put the lid on, and repeat the 
same three tirnes more. The ice-cream should by this time be quite firm, 
so have a cold desSert-diish with a folded napkin, dress the ice-cream over, 
and send to the table. 

This same ice-cream can be formed into a single brick by having a 
brick-shaped form, filling it with the cream, and pressing it down quickly 



DESSEHTS. 365 



with a spoon; cover closely, being careful that the form is completely 
filled, so that no salted water can penetrate into it. Put broken ice at the 
bottom of a pail, mixing in a little rock-salt, lay the form on top, covering 
it entirely with broken ice and salt; let freeze for one hour, remove, and 
bathe it in a vessel containing lukewarm water; wash off the ice and salt 
that adhere, and lift it out as quickly as possible; remove the cover, ajid 
turn it on a dessert-dish with a folded napkin, lift up the mold, and send 
the ice-cream to the table. 

1272. Chocolate Ijee-cream.  Prepare and cook exactly the same as 
for vanilla ice-cream (No. 1271); put in a saucepan two ounces of well- 
chopped cocoa and an ounce of powdered sugar, add to it half the cream 
preparation ; place the pan on the stove, and with a pastry-whip stir 
briskly, and let boil for three minutes ; take it from the fire, add it to the 
remaining half of cream, then mix the whole well together for two min- 
utes. Strain through a fine sieve into an ice-cream freezer, let cool for 
thirty minutes, then proceed to freeze it exactly the same as for the 
vanilla ice-cream, and serve it also the same. 

1273. Coffee Ice-creani.  Put in a vessel half a pound of powdered 
sugar and six egg -yolks ; mix well with the spatula for ten minutes, then 
add one pint of boiling milk, stir for two minutes longer, and pour the 
whole into a copper basin; place it on the hot stove, and with the spatula' 
stir gently at the bottom until well heated, but it must not boil. Take 
from off the fire, set it on a table, then immediately add a pint of sweet 
cream, mixing again for two minutes, and throw in two ounces of freshly 
ground Mocha coffee, stirring for two minutes longer ; return the basin 
to the stove, beat it up again with the pastry-whip, and lay it on the table , 
once more. Cover with a napkin, so that the coffee can infuse thoroughly 
for half an hour, then strain through a fine sieve into the freezer, and 
proceed freezing, and serving exactly the same as for vanilla ice-cream 
(No. 1271). 4 

1274. Strawberry Ice-cream.  Prepare and proceed exactly the same 
as for the cofifee ice-cream (No. 1273), suppressing the coffee, and when 
the cream is cooked and cool, add half a pint of well picked and cleaned 
strawberries. Mix well with the spatula for two minutes, then strain 
through a fine sieve into the freezer, pressing the strawberries through 
with a wooden spoon ; remove the sieve, cover the freezer, and proceed 
to freeze, and serve precisely the same as for vanilla ice-cream (No. 
1271). 

1275. Pistache Ice-cream.  Have. two ounces of fine, dried pistaches, 
using only the best quality ; put them into a pie-plate, place it in the 
oven to let the nuts get a light brown color, which will take about six 
minutes ; remove from the oven, lay the pistaches in a mortar with one 
ounce of granulated sugar, and pound slightly. Have a cream prepara- 
tion exactly the same as for coffee ice-cream (No. 1273), suppressing the 
coffee. When cooked, add the pint of sweet cream and the pistache, then 
place it on the stove and heat well, stirring continually. Remove from 
the fire, cover the basin with a napkin, and let get thoroughly cool for 



366 THE TABLE. 



thirty minutes. Add three drops of orange-flower water and five .drops 
of spinach-green, mix the whole well for two minutes, then strain through 
a fine sieve into the freezer, and proceed to freeze and serve exactly the 
same as for vanilla ice-cream (No. 1271). 

1276. Peach lee-cream.  Put in a vessel half a pound of powdered 
sugar with six egg yolks, then mix well with the spatula for ten minutes ; 
add a pint of boiling milk, stir for two minutes longer, and pour the whole 
into a copper basin. Place it on a hot stove, and heat it thoroughly, stir- 
ring continually, but not letting it boil ; remove, lay it on the table, and 
mix in immediately one pint of sweet cream; then leave it to cool for 
thirty minutes. Have six ripe, fine, sound peaches, wipe them nicely, 
cut them in two, remove the stones, then mash them into the cream, mix- 
ing thoroughly for three minutes ; strain through a. fine sieve iilto a 
freezer, pressing the peaches through with a wooden spoon, then proceed 
to freeze, and serve precisely the same as for the vanilla ice-cream (No. 
1271). 

1277. Banana Ice-cream.  Prepare and proceed exactly the same as 
for the peach ice-cream (No. 1276), using four peeled, sound, and ripe 
bananas instead of the peaches, and finishing exactly the same as for the 
other. 

1278. Eemon Ice-cream.  Put half a pound of powdered sugar into 
a basin ; grate in the rind of two fine lemons, add four egg whites, and 
mix well wifh a wire whip for two minutes, then add a pint of cold milk, 
stirring again for one minute. Place the basin on the hot stove, stir 
briskly with the whip, and take it off when coming to a boil, lay it on the 
table, and pour in a pint of sweet cream, mixing well for two minutes. 
Let it get cool during half an hour, then strain through a fine sieve into a 
freezer, and finish precisely the same as for vanilla ice-cream (No. 1271). 

1279. Lemon Water-ice.  Put in a vessel half a pound of powdered 
sugar, with one quart of cold jyater ; grate in the rind of a large lemon,' 
or of two small ones, squeezing in the juice of three good-sized ones, or 
of four if small, and with the spatula beat well together for five minutes. 
Have a syrup-weigher, place it in the centre of the preparation, and if it 
be twenty-one degrees it is correct, if not, add a little more powdered 
sugar ; remove the weigher, mix a little more, and then strain through a 
sieve into the, freezer, putting on the cover, and proceed to freeze it pre- 
cisely the same as for vanilla ice-cream (No. 1271), serving it the, same. 

1280. Orange Water-ice.  Put into a vessel one quart of cold water, 
half a pound of powdered sugar, and grate in the rind of two fine, ripe, 
medium-sized, red oranges, adding their juice besides, the juice of three 
medium-sized, sound lemons, then finish the same as for lemon water-ice 
(No. 1279). 

1281. Raspberry Water-ice.  Place in a vessel half a pound of pow- 
dered sugar, squeeze in the juice of three sound lemons, add a pint of 
nicely picked and cleaned raspberries, then with the spatula beat briskly 
for five minutes ; add a quart of cold water, mixing again for one minute, 
and proceed to finish and serve the same as for lemon water-ice (No. 1279). 



DESSEJiTS. 



567 



12S2. Cherry Water-ice. ^Procure one pound of sound, solid, sour 
cherries ; put them in a vessel, after picking off the stems nicely, with 
half a pound of powdered sugar, and squeeze in the juice of three fine 
lemons. Mix well with the spatula for five minutes, then add a quart of 
cold water, stirring the mixture for two minutes longer, and strain through 
a fine sieve into the ice-cream freezer, pressing the cherries down with a 
wooden spoon. Proceed to freeze, and serve exactly the same as for the 
vanilla ice-cream (No. 12 71). 

1283. Pineapple Water-ice.  Cut a small-sized, ripe pineapple in 
two ; put one half away for further use, paring and peeling the other 
half neatly, then cut it into small pieces ; place them in a mortar, and 
pound them thoroughly to a pulp; ten minutes will suffice for this. Add 
half a pound of powdered sugar, and pound again for five minutes ; trans- 
fer the whole into a vessel, squeeze in the juice of three sound lemons, 
then pour in a quart of cold water, and mix well with the spatula for two 
minutes. Strain through a fine sieve into the freezer, adding two egg 
whites, beaten to a stiff froth, then beat well for one minute more. Cover 
with the lid, and finish it the same as the vanilla ice-cream (No. 1271). 

1284. Feacll Water-ice.  Procure eight medium -sized, fine, ripe 
peaches ; wipe them neatly, cut in two, remove the stones, then mash 
them in a vessel with half a pound of powdei-ed sugar ; squeeze in the 
juice of three fine lemons, mix well with the spatula for two minutes, and 
pour in a quart of cold water, mixing for two minutes more. Strain 
through a fine sieve into the freezer, cover, and proceed to freeze the 
cream as for vanilla ice-cream (No. 1271), serving it the same. 

1285. Apricot Water-ice.  Have twelve good-sized, fine, sound apri- 
cots; wipe them neatly, cut them in two, remove the stones, and put 
them in a vessel with hslf a pound of powdered sugar, mashing them 
thoroughly. Have two ounces of bitter almonds, peel, and pound with- 
out drying them ; add one gill of cold water and one ounce of pow- 
dered sugar, pounding the whole together. Arrange a napkin over 
the vessel containing the apricot preparation; pour over it the contents 
of the mortar, pressing the juice through the napkin into the vessel, and 
mix well together for two minutes with the spatula. Squeeze in the juice 
of three sound lemons; add a pint and a half of cold water, mix again for 
two minutes, then strain through a fine sieve into the freezer. Put on 
the cover, and proceed to finish exactly the same as for the vanilla ice- 
cream (No. 1271). 

1286. Biscuits Glacis.  Put six egg yolks in a copper basin, with two 
ounces of powdered sugar, half a gill of maraschino, and a quarter of a 
gill of Swiss kirsch. Then with a pastry-whip beat well together for two 
minutes. Place the basin on a hot stove, and stir briskly with the whip 
for five minutes. Remove it from the fire, and immediately put the 
basin into a vessel containing ice-water, and stir continually for .two min- 
utes more. Add a pint and a half of whipped cream k la vanille (No. 1254), 
and mix well with the rest for three minutes. Then cover the basin with 
a napkin, and let repose for t,en minutes. Have six paper cases, four 



368 THE TABLE. 



inches long, two inches wide, and one and a half inches high, and iill 
equally with the above preparation. Have ready a square biscuit-glacfe 
box, ten inches high by six inches square, and having" inside a loose, two- 
tier frame. Place this box in an ice-cream tub, filling it with broken ice 
mixed with rock-salt. Wipe the cover neatly, and after lifting it 'up, 
remove the frame and place three biscuits on each tier; return the frame 
to the box, put the cover on, and let freeze for one and a half hours. Have 
a cold dessert-dish covered with a folded napkin; uncovfer the box, lift up 
the frame, and dress the biscuits nicely on the dish, sending them to the 
table at once. 

1287. Biscuits Tortoni.  Prepare and proceed exactly the same as for 
biscuits glacfes (No. 1286), only placing the preparation into six round, 
fancy paper cases, instead of square ones. When filled, sift evenly over 
the surfaces two ounces of finely powdered macaroons (No. 1210); lay 
them on the tiers of the frame, and freeze them,, serving them precisely 
as the biscuits glac6s. i 

1288. Iced Pudding k la Diplomate.  Have a biscuit-glac6 prepara- 
tion exactly the same as for No. 1286; cut ten biscuits a la cuillfere (No. 
1231) into dice-shaped pieces, and add them to the preparation. Then,' 
with a wooden spoon, mix lightly for two minutes. With this fill a three- 
pint, melon-shaped form, and place the cover on. Have a pail, with broken 
ice in the bottom; lay the form on it, and fill the pail with more broken ice 
and rock-salt, and let it freeze thoroughly for two hours. Have ready a 
vessel with warm water; take out Jhe mold from the pail, plunge it into the 
warm water, to wash away the ice and salt ; then remove it immediately, 
unmold it onto a dessert-dish with a fancy paper, and serve. 

1289. Plunr Pudding Glac6 ^laGHadstone.  Have ready three ounces 
of Malaga raisins, prepared as for- No. 1081; place them in a. stone jar 
with half a pint of good old sherry, adding three ounces of candied cher- 
ries cut into quarters, one ounce of finely chopped candied citron, and 
two ounces pf candied apricots, also cut into sma^ pieces; then with the 
spatula mix gently together for one and a half minutes. Cover the jar, 
and let infuse for fully twelve hours. Prepare a chocolate ice-cream, as 
for No. 1272, and just before removing it from the freezer add the above 
fruit preparation, mixing well with the spatula for fully two minutes. Put 
on the cover, and let freeze again for five minutes longer. 'Take a three- 
pint melon-form, and with a spoon filj it with the piidding preparation; 
cover it well, and put it in a pail containing broken ice and rock-salt at 
the bottom; then fill up the pail with more ice and salt, allowing it to 
freeze for fully two hours. In the meanwhile prepare the following sauce: 
put in a saucepan two egg yolks with one ounce of powdered sugar; 
place it on a slow stove, and with a pastry-whip stir briskly, adding grad- 
ually, one gill of old English brandy. Heat it well, but it must not boil. 
Then taka from the fire, set the pan on a table, and continue stirring for 
twelve minutes. Add a pint of well-whipped crSme i. la vanille (No. 1254), 
mixing the whole well.together with the whip for two minutes, and pour 
th^ sauce into a china bowl, placing it in the ice-box. Have a vessel 



DESSEHrS. 369 

ready containing warm water; lift the mold from the pail, plunge it into 
the water to remove the ice and salt adhering; then lift it up, unmold the 
pudding immediately, and place it on a dessert-dish, with a fancy paper 
cover. Beat well the sauce; transfer it to a silver sauce-bowl, and send 
it to the table with the plum pudding, serving it separately. 

1290. Macaroon Ic-cream.  Take six ounces of macaroons (No. 1210); 
put them into a tin pan, and place it in a moderate oven to dry for ten 
minutes. Remove, and lay them on a table to cool off for twenty min- 
utes, then put them in a mortar, pound thoroughly, and sift them over a 
sheet of paper. Have ready a vanilla ice-cream as for No. 1271, and just 
before serving add to it the sifted macaroons, and with the spatula mix 
thoroughly for five minutes, and with this fill a three-pint brick-mold, 
covering it tightly. Have ready a pail with broken ice and rock-salt at 
the bottom, lay the mold over, and fill up the pail with more ice and salt. 
Let it freeze for two hours, and when ready to serve, have ready a vessel 
with warm water, take up the mold, bathe it in the water, and wash off 
all the salt and ice that adhere, then unmold the ice-cream onto a dessert- 
dish with a fancy paper over, and send to the table immediately. 

1291. Fndding Glac^ k la Frankie Cleveland.  Prepare half the quan- 
tity of vanilla ice-cream as for No. 1271; when frozen, let it rest, and pre- 
pare also half the quantity of biscuit-glac6 preparation (No. 1286), and 
when ready cover the basin, and let rest also. Have half a. pound of 
marrons glac6s (candied chestnuts); break them into pieces onto a plate ; 
take a three-pint melon-form, arrange the vanilla ice-cream all around it, 
dividing it evenly, and filling up with alternate layers of the biscuit prep- 
aration and the marrons glacis ; cover the mold tightly, and place it in a 
pail with broken ice mixed with rock-salt at the bottom, also filliiig the 
pail with more ice and salt, then let freeze for fully two hours. Two 
minutes before serving, bathe the mold in warm water to remove the ice 
and salt that adhere, unmold, and send to the table immediately with a 
sauce-bowl full of the following sauce : add to half a pint of whipped 
cream 4 la vanille (No. 1254) one gill of strawberry juice, and half a gill, 
or two ounces, of yellow chartreuse ; beat well together with the whip 
for two minutes, then pour it into the sauce-bowl. 

1292. Jfapolltaine Ice-cream.  Prepare a pint of vanilla ice-cream as 
for No. 1271; a pint of pistache ice-cream (No. 1275), and a pint of rasp- 
berry water-ice (No. 1281). Take a long brick-form holding three pints, 
put at the bottom of this the raspberry water-ice, arrange the vanilla ice- 
cream on top, and fill up with the pistache, then cover tightly. Take a 
pail with broken ice mixed with rock-salt at the bottom, lay the form 
over, and fill up the pail with more ice and salt, and let freeze for two 
hours. Plunge the form in warm water to wash off the ice and salt, and 
unmold the ice-cream onto a piece of paper laid on the table. Dip a long 
knife in warm water, cut the brick lengthwise through the centre, then 
each piece into three, so that the Napolitaine will be divided into six 
equal-sized square pieces, each one having the three kinds of cream. 
Dress on a cold dessert-dish with a fancy paper over, and serve, 

24 



370 TSTE TABLfi. 



1293. Tutti-frutti.  Prepare a pint of vanilla ice-cream as for No. 
1271, half a pint of strawberry ice-cream (No. 1274), and half a pint of 
lemon water-ice (No. 1279); let them remain in the freezers. Put four 
ounces of candied cherries onto a plate, cut them in halves, and add two 
candied apricots cut into small pieces. Tal^e six tutti-frutti molds, open 
one of them, and lay on the cover a spoonful of strawberry ice-cream, 
with a spoonful of the lemon water-ice, one beside the other, press the 
sixth part of the candied fruits onto the ice-cream in the cover of the 
mold, filling the bottom with vanilla ice-cream, and close together firmly. 
Lay it immediately into a pail with broken ice and rock-salt at the bottom, 
cover the mold slightly with more ice and salt, then proceed to prepare 
the other five molds exactly the same. When they are all in the pail and 
covered as the first one, fill it up entirely with broken ice and salt, and let 
it freeze for one hou*. Have a vessel containing, warm water ready at 
hand, and prepare six small dessert-plates with a small fancy paper on 
each, lift up the molds, one after the other, wash them off quickly with 
the warm water, and unmold the tutti-fruttis onto the cold plates, and 
serve. 

1294. Plombiere k la Eing'man.  Put together into a saucepan eight 
egg yolks, half a pound of powdered sugar, a piece of vanilla-bean one 
inch long and split in two, also a pint of sweet cream, and six ounces of 
finely grated cocoa. Mix well with the spatula for two minutes, then 
place the pan on the hot stove, and stir constantly while heating, but 
under no circumstances must it boil. Remove it from the fire, and lay 
the pan in a cool place on the table for thirty minutes. Put an ice-cream 
freezer into a tub, fill it all round with broken ice mixed with rock-salt, 
remove the cover, and after wiping the freezer well, strain the prepara- 
tion through a sieve into it, cover it again, and with the hands turn the 
handle of the cover for five minutes in opposite directions. Lift up the 
cover, and with the spatula detach the preparation that adheres to the 
siifts, readjust the cover, and turn again the handle, beginning in an 
opposite direction from the first time ; after five minutes, detach from the 
si^es as before, and repeat for the third time the turning process. Finally 
lift oft the cover, and detach the cream from all around, and it will now 
be thoroughly firm, so cover it again, and let it rest. Beat up to a froth 
one gill of sweet cream as for No. 1254 ; take a glass or silver stand, and 
with an ice-cream spoon remove the cream from the freezer, spoonful by 
spoonful, and, dress it. in the centre of the bowl, keeping it as high as pos- 
sible, and giving it a pretty, pyramid shape. Fill a paper cornet with the 
whipped cream, cut off the point, and decorate artistically the top and 
sides of the plombifere. Chop up very fine two ounces of pistache, and 
sprinkle them evenly over the surface, then send to the table. 

1295. Parfait au Cafe k la Parisienne.  Place six ounces of powdered 
sugar in a saucepan with six egg yolks and a pint of sweet cream, and 
mix well together for two minutes ; set the saucepan on the hot stove, 
then stir gently and continually from the bottom, using a spatula, until 
nearly coming to a boil ; as this is difficult to determine on account of the 



VESSEJiTS. 371 



briskness of the fire, the best way to tell when it is sufficiently done i^ to 
lift up the spatula and see whether the cream adheres thickly to it, if so, 
remove the saucepan from the fire and lay it on the table, add immedi- 
ately to it four ounces of freshly roasted Mocha coffee in beans, then stir 
again well for one minute more. Remove the spatula, cover the sauce- 
pan with a napkin, put the lid on, and let infuse for one hour. Beat up 
one pint of fresh sweet cream as for No. 1254, and let rest until needed. 
Place an ice-cream freezer in a. tub, fill it up all round with broken ice 
mixed with rock-salt, wipe the cover nicely, and then remove it ; strain 
the infused preparation through a fine sieve into the freezer, put on the 
cover, then take hold of the handle, and turn th^ freezer briskly in oppo- 
site directions for five minutes ; remove the cover, and with the spatula 
detach all the cream that adheres to the sides and bottom, recover, and 
turn sharply as before ; remove the cover, detach the cream from the 
sides and bottom, replace the cover, and begin turning again in opposite 
directions for five minutes longer. The cream should now be thoroughly 
frozen. Drop the whipped cream into the freezer, very little at a time, 
meanwhile mixing it gently with the spatula, which should take four min- 
utes to accomplish it; then have ready a three-pint, channeled, ice-cream 
mold, and with an ice-cream spoon fill the mold with the preparation, and 
put on the lid. Place some broken ice with rock-salt at the bottom of a 
pail, lay the mold over, and fill up the pail with more ice and salt, then 
let freeze for fully one hour. Afterward remove the mold, dip it into 
lukewarm water, wipe away the ice and salt, and lift it up immediately, 
take off the cover, and turn the cream onto a cold dessert-dish with a 
folded napkin, and serve. 

1296. Eice and Cream k la Croce.  Put one pint of cold milk into a 

saucepan, adding one pint of cold water and half a saltspoonful of salt, 
place the pan on the hot stove, and when boiling, throw in four ounces of 
well-cleaned, raw rice; then with a spatula stir slowly and continually at 
the bottom while it is cooking for twenty-five minutes, then take the pan 
from off the fire, lay it on a table, and add immediately four ounces of 
powdered sugar and one ounce of fresh butter ; mix well together with a 
spatula for two minutes, then transfer it into another vessel, and set it in 
a cold place for one hour to have it thoroughly cooled off. Whip to a 
froth one pint of sweet cream as for No. 1254, cover the basin with a nap- 
kin, and let rest for twenty minutes ; should there be any milk settled at 
the bottom, pour it off, and add to the cream two ounces of powdered 
sugar and one teaspoonful of vanilla flavoring, then with a wire whip beat 
well together for two minutes longer, and remove the whip. Take the 
rice from the vessel, drop it gradually into the whipped cream, then mix 
the whole together slowly and carefully for three minutes. Line a two- 
quart, tin melon-form with three ounces of peach marmalade (No. 1331), 
fill the mold with the preparation, put on the cover, and after placing a 
little broken ice at the bottom of a pail, lay in the mold, and cover it 
entirely with broken ice (no salt is necessary for this), and let freeze for 
one Hour. Have a vessel with two quarts of lukewarm water ; lift up 



372 THE TABLE. 



the mold from the pail, dip it into the water, wash off the ice, and raise 
it up immediately ; remove the cover, turn the preparation onto a cold 
dessert-dish, and send to the table. 

1297. Orang'es Glac^es h, la George Benauldt.  Have six fine, solid 
oranges, and with a pastry-tube, one and a quarter of an inch in diameter, 
cut off the tops of the oranges, then with a sma^l knife remove the covers 
gently, laying them aside until later. With either a Parisian-potato cutter 
or a spoon, empty the insides of the. oranges, being careful to avoid 
breaking any of the skin, for should that occur, they will be useless ; the 
interiors can be used for some other purpose. Arrange the oranges, with 
their covers on, in a square biscuit-glac6 box as for No. 1286 ; place the 
box in a tub, filling it with broken ice mixed with rock-salt, and let freeze 
for one hour. Prepare a champagne punch as for No. 1307, and with it 
fill the interior of the oranges, put on the covers, and with different col- 
ored ribbons tie each one, beginning at the top ; when at the bottom, turn 
the ribbon and bring it back to the top in an opposite direction, then make 
a graceful bow on top of the covers. Lay them again in the box, and let 
them freeze for one hour longec, then dress them on a dessert-dish with 
a folded napkin, and serve. 

1298. Mac^doine Glac^e & la Cavoiir.  Prepare a pint of lemon ice- 
cream as for No. 1278, also a pint of coffee ice-cream (No. 1273), leaving 
them in their freezers. Take two ounces of candied cherries, cut in 
halves, two ounces of candied apricots, cut in slices, one ounce of candied 
angelica, cut into very small, lozenge-shaped pieces, two ounces of can- 
died pineapple, cut into very thin slices, and twelve French walnuts, 
shelled and divided. Have a three-pint, square ice-cream mold, place 
half the lemon ice-cream at the bottom, arrange a. third part of the fruits 
nicely over, dividing them equally, then cover with half of the coffee ice- 
cream, and with a spoon press it down well. Lay half the remaining 
fruits on top of this, and spread over the rest of the lemon ice-cream, 
then the last of the fruits, and fill up the mold with the balance of the 
coffee ice-cream. Close very firmly, and lay it into a pail with broken ice 
mixed with rock-salt at the bottom, and filling it with the same, then let 
freeze for two hours. Two minutes before serving prepare a vessel' with 
warm water, lift up the mold, and wash off the ice and salt, then unmold 
the macfidoine immediately on a cold dessert-dish with a fancy paper 
over, and send it to the table. 

1299. Charlottes Glacees.  Take six small charlotte-molds, and line 
them nicely with twelve biscuits k la cuillfere (No. 1231) cut crosswise 
into halves. Have ready one pint and a half of vanilla ice-cream (No. 
1271), and fill the interiors of the molds with it, and turn them onto a des- 
sert-dish with a (folded napkin over. Divide the remaining ioe-cream 
evenly over the six charlottes, with one macaroon (No. 1210) on top of 
each, then send immediately to the table. 

1300. Charlottes Fanaehees.  Have six charlotte-molds lined as for 
charlottes glacfees (No. 1299); fill them with a pint of vanilla ice-cream 
(No. 1271), then turn them onto six cold dessert-plates. Take a pastry- 



DESSEJiTS. 373 

bag (No. 1079), slide down in it a fancy tube (No; 3), and pour into it a 
pint of wliipped crgme t la vagille (No. 1254); press a little of this onto 
the top of the charlottes, arrange over them six macaroons (No. 1210), 
press a little more cream about the size of a nut on the top of each maca- 
roon, then with the balance of the cream decorate the bottom of the char- 
lottes all around, and serve. 

1301. M^linglies Glac6es.  Prepare a pint and a half of vanilla ice- 
cream (No. 1271), and with a round ice-cream spoon divide it evenly onto 
six cold dessert-plates, and arrange over each two meringue-shells 
(No. 1250), so as to nearly enclose the ice-cream, and then send to the 
table. 

1302. Meringues Panach6es.  Have six m6ringue-shells (No. 1250); 
divide evenly into them a pint of vanilla ice-cream (No. 1271). Slide into 
a pastry-bag (No. 1079) a fancy tube (No. 3), and pour into it a pint of 
whipped creme i la vanille (No. 1254) ; press half of it into six other y 
mferingue-shells, then join them to the other six containing the ice-cream. 
Lay them on six cold dessert-plates, and decorate the joints nicely with 
the balance of- the cream, then send to the table at once. 

1303. Punch ^ la Lorenzo Delmonico.  Put in a china bowl half a 
pound of powdered sugar, squeeze in the juice of three fine, sound, large 
lemons and the juice of a fine, large, red orange, then with a very clean 
wooden spoon mix together for three minutes. Add half a pint of cold 
water, a gill of Swiss kirsch, and stir for four minutes more, then strain 
through a fine sieve into the ice-cream freezer, remove the sieve, and 
pour into the freezer half a gill of St. Croix rum, a quarter of a gill of 
Delmonico's fine champagne cognac, and half a pint of Delmonico's cham- 
pagne. Cover immediately with the lid, and place the freezer in a narrow 
ice-cream tub, filling the latter all round with broken ice mixed with rock- 
salt ; then with the handle on the cover turn as sharply as possible for 
three minutes ; wipe the cover neatly, uncover, and with a wooden spoon 
detach the punch from the sides of the freezer, as also from the bottom ; 
cover again, turn the handle for three minutes more, uncover, detach the 
punch as before, cover, and repeat this three times as explained for the 
vanilla ice-cream (No. 1271). Have six cold dessert-plates covered with 
fancy papers, each one having an L. D. designed on it ; fill six punch- 
glasses with the punch, arrange them on the plates, and send to the 
table. 

1304. Bomaine Punch.  Make half the quantity of the preparation the 
same as lemon water-ice (No. 1279), and before freezing add a gill of 
Jamaica rum; then finish the sairie, only serving the romaine punch in six 
small punch-glasses. 

1305. Kirsch Punch.  To be prepared precisely as for the above 
(No. 1304), only substituting a gill of kirsch for the rum, and serving it 
the same. 

1306. Punch k la Cardinal. Prepare half the quantity of the prepa- 
ration as for i-aspberry water-ice (No. 1281); strain it through a sieve into 
the freezer, then pour in half a gill of red cura9oa, and half a gill of 



;74 "^HE TABLE. 



maraschino; put on the Ijd, and freeze it the same as for vanilla ice-cream 
(No. 1271), only serving it in six punch-glasses. 

1307. Champagne Punch.  Have half the quantity of preparation 
described for orange water-ice (No. 1280), strain it through a sieve into 
the freezer, and add half a pint of good champagne. Place the cover on, 
and proceed to freeze it exactly as for vanilla ice-cream (No. 1271), serv- 
ing it in six punch-glasses. 

1308. Punch k la Lalla Bookh.  Have ready half the quantity of 
preparation of vanilla ice-cream (No.. 1271); strain it through a fine sieve 
into the freezer, adding one gill of Jamaica rum; freeze it the same, and 
serve it in glasses. 

1309. Punch en Surprise.  Have six fancy forms; one the shape of 
a pear, one of an apple, one of a banana, one of a tomato, one of a pine- 
apple, and one of a peach. Fill a tin pan with finely cracked ice well 

mixed with rock-salt, lay on it the six molds, opened flat, fill them with 
cold water, also the pan to half its height, and let it all rest for one hour; 
feel the inside of the molds to find whether a frozen crust adheres to them ; 
if so, continue to finish the punch. Have any kind of desired punch 
ready; take up each mold separately, empty out the water, and fill 
them one after another; close tightly, and lay them in a pail previously 
prepared with broken ice and rock-salt at the bottoip; cover them with 
plenty more ice and salt, and let freeze one hour. Have ready a cold ' 
dessert-dish with a folded napkin over; put some warm water in a vessel, 
take up each mold, one by one, dip them into the water, and hastily wash 
off any ice or salt which may adhere, unmold them carefully, and lay 
them nicely on the dessert-dish, and send to the table at once. 

1310. Punch k la Fran^aise, Hot.  Put in a saucepan on the hot 
range one pint of Jamaica rum, with twelve ounces of granulated sugar; 
stir continually with the spatula until reduced to half the quantity. Add 
the jpice of three lemons, the juice of four sweet oranges, then set the 
pan on the corner of the stove to keep hot. Put into a tea-pot one ounce 
of green tea, pouring over it a pint of boiling water, and let infuse for ten 
minutes, then strain into the preparation; return it on the hot place, and 
when about boiling, skim thoroughly with a skimmer. Take it from the 
fire, pour it into a punch-bowl, and serve. , 

1311. Punch k la Francjaise, Iced.  Have a punch k la Fransaise 
ready as for the above (No. 1310), and let cool off. Pour it into a small 
freezer, cover it, and lay it in a wooden tub filled with chopped ice all 
around. Sprinkle the ice well with rock-salt, and with the hands turn the 
freezer sharply around in opposite directions. While doing this, stop 
every two minutes to detach the punch from around the freezer (using a 
spatula), so that it will be perfectly firm. If sharply handled, fifteen min- 
utes will suffice to freeze it thoroughly, then serve in six punch-glasses, 
dividing it equally. 

1312. Punch k la Czarina, Hot. place in a copper or tin vessel one 
pound of granulated sugar, half a pint of Swiss kirsch, four 'ounces of St. 
Croix rum, and two ounces of good cognac. Light this mixture with a 



DESSJiTS. 



!75 



match, and let it burn until the sugar is dissolved, then pour in a quart of 
Roederer's champagne, not colder than fifty degrees Fahrenheit. Squeeze 
in the juice of a good-sized mellow orange, 'and add twelve thin slices of 
pineapple; mix the whole well with a ladle, heat it slightly, being careful 
it does not boil, then pour the punch into a fancy bowl, and serve hot 
with six punch-glasses. 

1313. Champagne Cup.  Squeeze the juice of half a good-sized, sound 
lemon into a fancy glass pitcher large enough to contain five pints; 
sweeten with one tablespoonful of powdered sugar, then add two ponies 
of red cura9oa, one bottle of plain soda, and two slices of cucumber-rind. 
Pour in three pints of any brand of champagne, adding about a quarter of 
a pound of ice, then mix thoroughly with a spoon, and ornament the 
punch nicely with strawberries, very thin slices of pineapple, a finely 
sliced, medium-sized orange, and half a bunch of fine, fresh mint; send the 
cup to the table with six champagne-glasses. 

1314. Claret Cnp.  Have a glass pitcher holding two and a half 
quarts, or five pints; squeeze in the juice of three medium-sized, sound 
lemons, add four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, two ponies of red 
cura9oa, and two slices of cucumber-rind, then pour in three pints of 
claret, and one bottle of plain soda ; or a pint of either Clysmic, Apolli- 
naris, or carbonic water will answer. Mix thoroughly with a spoon, 
adding a lump of ice weighing about three quarters of a pound ; mix again, 
then decorate with a finely sliced orange, cut into small pieces, berries of 
any kind, and finally with half a bunch of fresh mint. Serve in six punch- 
glasses, and the effect will be exceedingly pretty. 

1315. Water-melon h la Eomero.  Have a fine, sound, large, ripe 
water-melon, and with a very thin knife cut out a piece in the centre two 
inches square by three and a half inches deep; remove the piece carefully, 
and pour gradually into the inside one quart bottleful of champagne; 
replace the piece of melon in its former position, then lay the melon in 
the ice-box for six hours to infuse; set it on a silver dessert-dish, and send 
to the table, cutting it according to taste. 

1316. Water-melon k la J086 Paez.  Proceed and prepare exactly the 
same as for the above (No. 1315), only substituting one pint of Jamaica 
rum for the champagne, and serving the same. 

1317. Water-melon k la Seward.  Prepare a water-melon as for No. 
1315, pouring into it one pint of Delmonico's cognac, instead of the cham- 
pagne, and serving it the same. 

1318. Sherry-wine Jelly.  Put one quart of cold water into a sauce- 
pan with half a pound of granulated sugar ; break in two ounces of gelatine 
in small pieces, and grate in the rind of a medium-sized lemon, squeezing 
in the juice as well. Mix well, and place the saucepan on the hot stove. 
Beat up in a basin two egg whites, and add them to the other ingredients, 
then grate in a saltspoonful of nutmeg, adding six cloves, and one bay- 
leaf, mixing well with the whip for one minute. Have ready a seamless 
jelly-bag (which can be purchased ready made), tie it on a jelly-stand, or 
if none handy, two kitchen chairs will answer the purpose. Stir the 



376 THE TABLE. 



preparation, and when coming to a boil, set it back to a cooler part of the 
stove to prevent it overflowing' stir, while boiling, for six minutes. Place 
a vessel under the jelly-bag, remove the pan from the fire, and pour the 
whole into the bag, immediately adding to it half a pint of good sherry 
wine, and a teaspoonful of burned sugar (No. 1265). Let it drain into the 
vessel, then return it to the bag, placing another vessel underneath, then 
let it drain through for fully two hours. Have a quart jelly-mold, pour 
the jelly from the vessel into it, and set it aside in a cool place for two 
hours, then put it into the ice-box to harden for two hours more. Prepare 
a cold dessert-dish, and after dipping the mold lightly and carefully to 
near its edge in lukewarm water, take it up immediately, and turn it onto 
the dish, wiping neatly the latter all around, then send to the table. 

1319. Kirsch Jelly.  This jelly is to be prepared the same as the 
sherry-wine jelly (No. 1318), omitting the burned sugar, and replacingthe 
sherry wine by a gill of Swiss Kirschwasser, then serving it the same. 

1320.  Jamaica-rum Jelly.  Proceed exactly the same as for sherry- 
wine jelly (No. 1318), only substituting -a. gill of Jamaica rum for the 
sherry, then finish and ser^e the same. 

1321. Brandy Jelly. To be prepared precisely the same as the sherry- 
wine jelly (No. 1318), substituting a gill of good brandy for the sherry, and 
served the same as the other jellies. 

1822. Champa^e Jelly.  To be made the same as the sherry-wine 
jelly (No. 1318), suppressing the burned sugar, and using half a pint of 
Delmonico's champagne, instead of the sherry. To be served the same. 

1323. Eiimmel Jelly.  Prepare and proceed exactly as for sherry-wine 
jelly (No. 1318), suppressing the burned sugar, and replacing the sherry 
by a gill of Russian kiimmel, sending it to the table the same as for the 
others. 

1321. Rheln-wine Jelly.  The same as for sherry-wine jelly (No. 1318), 
omitting the burned sugar, and using half a pint of Lieberfraumilch wine, 
instead of the sherry, and serving the same. 

1323. Marcella-wine Jelly ^ la Castellar.  To be made exactly the 
same as sherry-wine jelly (No. 1318,) using half a pint of Marcella wine in 
place of the sherry, and finished the same. 

1326. Currant Jelly.  Select sixteen pounds of small, old Dutch cur- 
rants, not too ripe; those are preferable which are picked at the end of 
the month of June. Place them in a copper basin on the hot stove, 
and begin stirring them immediately from the bottom, using a wooden 
spatula; when they begin to scald, pour them into a clean tub, and with a 
pounder mash them thoroughly. Strain them through a fTannel jelly-bag 
back into the copper basin, adding to the juice seven pounds of granulated 
sugar. Return the pan to the fire, and let boil until reduced to about half 
the quantity, 'then dip in a skimmer, lift it up, and feel the jelly with the 
two forefingers; close them, and open them slowly, if the jelly is 
mucilaginous, then it is done; if not, cook for a few minutes longer. 
Take it from the fire, and pour a little into every glass jar ready to use, 
as this will prevent them cracking. Afterwards fill them up. When 



DESSERTS.. ^"jy 



thoroughly cold, which will be in about two hours, during which time 
they must not be disturbed, cork them tightly, and put them in a closet. 
Currant jelly prepared in this way will keep in good condition for two 
years. 

1327. Apple JeUy.  Put six good-sized apples into a saucepan after 
cutting them into quarters ; add a pint of cold water an<J a. quarter of a 
lemon, then place it on a hot stove, and let boil for fifteen minutes. Place 
a sieve over a vessel, pour the contents of the pan onto it, and let drain 
thoroughly for fifteen minutes, then remove the sieve, and pour the apple 
juice into a saucepan with a pound of granulated sugar. Replace it on 
the hot stove, and let boil for thirty minutes, so that it be reduced to 
half, then take it from the fire, and pour it into a stone jar to cool off 
thoroughly, and use it when required for pies, cakes, or any other desired 
purpose. 

1328. Apple Sance.  Press the apples cooked in the above (No. 1327) 
through the sieve into a bowl, add half a pound of powdered sugar, a 
teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, and mix well together for two minutes, 
place it in a stone jar, and use when required. 

1329. Cranberry Sance.  Put in a saucepan one quart of fine, red, 
cleaned cranberries with a gUl of water; place it on a hot stove and boil 
for fifteen minutes, then add five ounces of powdered sugar, and stir 
lightly with a spatula for five minutes. Remove it from the fire, pour it 
into a sieve ovr a vessel, and press well through with a wooden spoon. 
Transfer it into a stone jar, and use when required. 

1330. Stewed Prunes k la G^n^ral Dufour. Procure ten ounces of 

the best imported prunes (which should invariably be purchased at a 
responsible dealer's), and put them in a vessel with a quart of cold water, 
letting them soak for four hours; then thoroughly drain them. Put them 
in a saucepan with half a pint of cold water, the zest ot a sound lemon, 
a two-inch-length piece of cinnamon, two ounces of fresh butter, and four 
ounces of powdered sugar. Place the pan on a slow fire, and with the 
spatula stir carefully and gently once in a while, to avoid breaking them. 
After letting them cook slowly for two hours, remove the pan from the 
stove, and add immediately a pint of Bordeaux wine, replace it on the 
stove to heat thoroughly, but not allowing it to boil again ; take from off 
the fire, pour the prunes into a stone jar, let get cold, then serve. 

1331. Peach Marmalade.  Peel and cut into slices twelve good-sized, 
sound peaches ; put into a saucepan half a pound of granulated sugar and 
a pint of cold water ; place it on a hot stove, and let come to a boil,^then 
add the peaches, and cook for twelve minutes, stirring continually with 
the spatula. Remove from the fire, and strain through a pastry-sieve 
into a bowl, adding twelve peeled almonds (No. 1207), then let cool off 
thoroughly. Put it into a china bowl, lay it aside in a cool place, and 
use when needed. This marmalade will keep for several days if properly 
prepared. 

1332. Stewed Apples. Take six fine, sound MiddlQtown pippin apples, 
peel them neatly, and with an apple-corer core them tiioroughly, then cut 



>78 THE TABLE. 



each apple into four quarters, and lay them in a saucepan with a pint of 
cold water, adding half a pound of granulated sugar. When the contents 
of the pan come to a, boil, skim well, and then flavor with the juice of 
half an orange, or the same quantity of lemon, and a saltspoonful of 
ground cinnamon can also be added. When flavored, let cook for five 
minutes longer, and with a spatula stir slowly from the bottom to avoid 
mashing the apples. Remove from the fire, pour into. a china bowl, and 
cool off thoroughly before serving. , 

1333. Stewed Pears.  Are to be prepared and cooked exactly the 
same as for the above (No. 1332). 

1334. Stewed Peaches.  Peel and cut into quarters ten medium-sized, 
sound, ripe peaches, removing the stones, put them into a saucepan with 
a pint of cold water, adding half a pound of granulated sugar. Place the 
pan on the stove, and when boiling skim well ; let cook for five minutes, 
meanwhile stirring them slowly -from the bottom, to avoid mashing the 
fruit; then remove, and immediately add a gill of kirsch, mixing well 
together, for about half a minute. Pour into a china bowl, let get cool, 
then dress on a dessert-dish, and serve. 

1335. Stewed Apricots.  Peel, cut, and stone twelve goodrsized apri- 
cots, or fifteen if they be smajl; then proceed to prepare them exactly as 
for stewed peaches (No. 1334), only substituting a gill of brandy for the 
kirsch. 

1336. Stewed Green-gages.  Have eighteen or twenty solid, ripe, 
green-gages, peel them neatly, cut them in halves, and stone them. Pro- 
ceed exactly the same as for stewed peaches (No. 1334), only replacing the 
kirsch by a gill of red cura9oa, and serving the same. 

1337. Stewed Plums.  Proceed exactly the same as for the above (No. 
1336), substituting the same quantity of plums for the green-gages. 

133S. Stewed Quinces.  Take twelve fine, firm, ripe quinces, peel and 
core them thoroughly, then cut them into quarters, and put them in a 
saucepan with a pint of. cold water and half a pound of granulated sugar. 
Place them on the stove; when boiling, skim well, and let cook for fifteen 
minutes, stirring them gently at the bottom with a spatula to avoid mash- 
ing the fruit. Remove from the fire, and immediately vadd a gill of 
maraschino; stir lightly again, then pour into a china bowl to let cool. 
Dress on a dessert-dish and serve. 

1339. Syrup for Preserril^ Fruits.  Put seven pounds of granulated 
sugar into a sugar-pan, adding five pints of cold water, and wheii on the 
hot stove, stir with the spatula until thoroughly heated, but it must not 
boil. Remove it from the fire, lay it aside, and use when needed for 
different fruits. The above quantity will produce five quarts at thirty 
degrees Fahrenheit. 

1310. Preserved Peaches.  The best variety for preserving are 
either the " Crawford Late," or " Smoke." Select one hundred thoroughly 
ripe, sound, medium-sized peaches; peel them neatly, cut them in halves, 
and remove the stones with care. Have ready ten patent lightning-glass 
jars, each holding one quart, or twenty holding only a pint each; then divide 



DESSEJRTS. 



379 



the peaches equally into them, and pour into each one pint of syrup 
prepared as for No. 1339, or half a pint, if using the pint jars, taking care 
that the peaches floating on the top should be entirely covered, even if it 
be necessary to press them down lightly. Put on the cover very tight, 
then bring the larger wire up in the very centre between the two small 
knobs, and press the smaller one downwards. Place the jars in a large 
saucepan standing, seeing that they do not tduch each other, otherwise 
they might break, and arrange a little hay or straw between every one. 
Fill the pan with cold water so as to cover the)j entirely, and placing it 
on the hot stove, let boil for ten minutes. Take from off the fire, stand 
the pan on a table, and with a towel lift up the jars one by one, layirig 
them most carefully on a dry kitchen table, and avoid putting them in a 
cold place. When all are so arranged, taking the towel into the hand, lift 
up the smaller wire, so that the gas slightly escapes for one minute, then 
immediately pull it down again until hermetically sealed. Let them stand 
till thoroughly cold, then put them away for general use. The right 
temperature for keeping them is from 65 to 75 degrees. Should the sauce- 
pan not be sufficiently large to contain all the jars, boil five at a time. 

The best time to select the peaches is from August 20 to Sep- 
tember 20. 

1341. Preserved Bartlett Pears.  Procure one hundred medium-sized^ 
sound, and fully ripe pears, fit to eat in their natural state ; peel them 
carefully keeping them in their original form, then split in halves, and cut 
out the cores* and seeds. Fill ten lightning-glass jars with the pears, 
and pour over five quarts of syrup (No. 1339), covering them tightly the 

'same as for the peaches (No. 1340), placing them likewise in the saucepan, 
but boiling for fifteen minutes instead of ten. When lifted from the pan, 
proceed precisely as for the peaches. The best time to purchase the 
fruit is from August 25 to September 20. 

1342. Preserved Apples.  Select sixty medium-sized, fine,spund, ripe 
Newtown pippins, the best time for this being from October i to Decem- 
ber I. Peel and core them with a. corer, then cut them into quarters,' 
and divide them equally into ten glass jars as for peaches (No. 1340). 
Fill them up with the syrup at thirty degrees, then cover tightly, put 
them in the saucepan -exactly the same as for the peaches, and boil for 
fifteen minutes instead of ten. Take from off the fire, and finish the same 
as for the peaches, putting them away in the same temperature. 

1343. Preserved Egg-plnms. Have two hundred medium sized egg- 
plums, ripe enough to break easily from the stones ; wash them tare- 
fully, drain, then divide them equally into the ten quart lightning-jars. 
Fill them up with the thirty-degree syrup (No. 1339), cover tightly, and 
arrange them in the pan precisely as for peaches (No. 1340). Boil them 
for eight minutes instead of ten, then take from the stove, and finish pre- 
paring them exactly as for the peaches. The best time to procure these 
is from August 5 to September i. 

1344. Preserved Green-gages. Procure two hundred and fifty fine, 
ripe green-gages, selecting those which break easily from the stones ; 



380 TitE TABLE. 



wash them well in cold water, drain thoroughly, then divide therh equally 
into the ten patent glass jars, exactly as described for peaches (No. 1340). 
Fill up with five quarts of thirty-degree syrup (No. 1339), and finish pre- 
paring them the same as for peaches, but boiling them only for eight 
minutes instead of ten ; put them away the same as the other fruits. The 
best time to procure green-gages is from August i to September i. 

1345. Preserved Strawberries.  Always purchase the berries from 
June 7 to July 20, when residing in New York, Have fully the 
equivalent of ten quart^ of well-picked and thoroughly washed, ripe, 
sound, and perfect strawberries, drain them well. To have these well 
selected it will doubtless require twenty-two to tWenty-five quart baskets 
of unpicked fruit. When well drained, fill the ten quart lightning-glass 
jars with the berries, and pour in the thirty-degree syrup (No. 1339), but 
using it hot instead of cold. Cover them tightly, and proceed precisely 
the same as for peaches (No. 1340), only boiling them five minutes instead 
of ten, and putting them away the same. 

1346. Preserved Raspberries.  Have ready the equivalent of ten 
quarts of fine, ripe, solid, well-washed, and thoroughly drained raspber- 
ries ; sixteen quart baskets will be about the necessary quantity to pur- 
chase. When ready, fill up the ten lightning-glass jars, and proceed to 
prepare them as explained for peaches (No. 1340), the only exception 
being that they must be boiled five minutes instead of ten. The proper 
time to obtain the berries is from July 10 to July 20. 

1347. Preserved Cherries.  Purchase twenty-five pounds of fine, 
sound, ripe, white wax cherries ; pick off the stems neatly, and should 
there be any unripe or spoilt ones among them, throw them away, as' 
they would likely ruin the rest. When finished, there should be about 
twenty pounds of sound cherries suitable for preserving. Have ready 
ten quart lightning-glass jars, same as for the peaches (No. 1340); divide 
the picked cherries evenly into them, and fill up with the thirty-degree 
syrup (No. 1339). Cover them tightly and carefully, then arrange them 
in a large saucepan precisely the same as the peaches, and finish them 
exactly as described in that number, boiling them for the same -length of 
time. June 15 to July 1 is the best time to obtain the fruit. 

1348. How to Boast Coffee.  If practicable, procure a small family 
coffee-roaster. Have thr^e quarters of a pound of Java, mixed with u 
quarter of a pound of Mocha, place it in the roaster, and taking one of the 
lids from off the stove, put the roaster on a moderate fire, and turn the 
small handle constantly and slowly until the coffee becomes a good brown 
cdlor; for this it should take about twenty-five minutes; open the cover to 
see when it is done, then transfer it to an earthen jar, cover it tightly, and 
use when needed; or, a more simple way, and even more effectual, is to 
take a tin baking-dish, butter well the bottom; and placing the same 
quantity of coffee therein, put it in a moderate oven to let get a good 
golden color; twenty minutes will suffice for this, being careful to toss it 
frequently with a wooden spoon, then remove to an earthen jar., and cover 
it well. 



DESSERTS. -igl 



Roasting one's own coffee is a sure way of having it always fresh; 
besides, it retains its full flavor; but care must also be taken to purchase 
coffee from a responsible, first-class dealer. 

1349. How to Make Black Coffee. Take six light tablespoonfuls of 
coffee-beans from the jar (No. 1348); grind them in a mill, neither too 
coarse nor too fine. Have a well-cleaned French coffee-pot, put the coffee 
on the filter, with the small strainer over, then pour on a pint and a half 
of boiling water, little by little, recollecting, at the same time, that too 
much care cannot be taken to impress on those making the coffee, the 
necessity of having the water boiling thoroughly, otherwise it were as 
useless to attempt the feat as to try and raise musk-melons at the North 
Pole, notwithstanding that the coffee be of the very first quality. When 
all the water is consumed put on the cover, and let infuse slightly, but on 
no account must it boil again; then serve in six after-dinner cups. Coffee 
should never be prepared more than five minutes before the time to serve. 

1350. Caf6 Noir k I'Alexander the Great.  Put in an earthen pot on 
the hot range three pints of cold water; when boiling, immediately add 
four and a half ounces of freshly ground coffee, and as soon as the coffee 
has been added, put the pot on the corner of the stove to rest for three 
minutes. Have a piece of hot, red (very red), charcoal the size of a small 
banana, plunge it into the coffee. (If no charcoal at hand, a piece of red 
stove-coal will answer). Let rest again for three minutes ; then you will see 
a heavy foam appearing at the surface of the coffee , thoroughly skim it off 
with a skimmer. Then carefully and gently pour it into a hot coffee-pot, 
and send to the table with six small, hot demi-tasses; accompanied with 
six ponies of old Renauldt cognac. 

I would recommend that, after the scum has been removed, the coffee 
should be handled as gently as possible, so that all undesirable elements 
will remain at the bottom. 

1351. Cafe au Lait (Coffee with Milk).  Have a clean French coffee- 
filter ready on the hot range ; place in it four and a half ounces of freshly 
ground coffee, as for No. 1349; then gradually pour over it, all around, 
half a pint of boiling water; let rest for three minutes, then gradually 
pour over two pints and a half more of boiling water (taking special care 
that, under no circumstances, should it be allowed to boil again after the 
water has been poured over). When' all dripped down, pour it into a hot 
coffee-pot. Take three pints of good, freshly and thoroughly heated milk 
(but do not boil it), pour it into a hot pitcher, send to the table with six 
hot cups h cafd au lait, pouring into each cup half coffee and half milk. 

1352. Crf6 an Lait Si la St. Gottardo.  Place in an earthen pot on the 
hot range two quarts of very fresh milk, and let it heat until near the boiling- 
point, then immediately add two and a half ounces of fresh, finely ground 
coffee (No. 1349). Shuffle the pot in contrary directions until it comes to 
a boil; then let it rest for three minutes. 

Strain it through a clean napkin into a hot serving-pitcher, and serve 
with six caf6-au-lait cups. 

1353. CaK Glac6 ^ced Coffee). Prppare one quart of coffee as for 



382 THE TABLE. 



No. 1349, and also one quart of thoroughly heated milk (not boiled). 
Pour both coffee and milk into a small ice-cream freezer. Sweeten with 
three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar; tightly cover the freezer, place 
it in a tub containing broken ice and rock-salt a little higher than 'the 
height of the coffee, then sharply turn it by the handle of the cover, in 
different directions, for five or six minutes; neatly wipe the cover of the 
freezer all around to avoid that any ice should fall in; and with the aid of 
a ladle pour it into a pitcher, and serve with six coffee-glasses, and 
powdered sugar separately. 

1354. Th6 (Tea).  Place in a tea-pot three heaped tablespobnfuls, or 
one and a half ounces, of the best English-breakfast X.e.a., purchased from a 
responsible dealer. Pour over five pints of boiling water. See to it that 
the water is boiling, else, even with the best quality of tea, you will never 
succeed to have it made to perfection. Let infuse for five minutes (but 
do not boil again), then send to the table with a pint of cold milk, or a 
pint of sweet cream. 

Th6 Glac6 (Iced Tea).  Prepare the same quantity of tea the same as 
above, pour into an ice-cream freezer, sweeten, and proceed the same as 
for iced coffee (No. 1353), (omitting the milk); pour it into a cold pitcher, 
and send to the table with six coffee-glasses, six slices of sound lemon, and 
powdered sugar separately. 

1355. Th6 Jlla Busse (Russian Tea).  Place in a tea-pot three heaped 
tablespoonfuls of English-breakfast tea; pour over a little boiling water, . 
just sufficient to cover the tea, about two tablespoonfuls; let infuse for 
one minute, then draw the water out, but do not use it. Pour in half a 
pony of good old Jamaica rum and three pints of boiling water; let infuse 
for four minutes, and then serve in cup with a decanter of old Jamaica 
rum separately, thin slices of lemon, and powdered sugar. 

This is the old Russian style. Later fashion is to flavor it with a little 
^vanilla flavor and a few drops of lemon juice. 

1356. How to Make Chocolate.  Select three quarters of a pound of 
good chocolate (Maillard's is preferable), break it into pieces, and put 
them in a saucepan on the stove with half a pint of boiling water ; stir 
well with a wooden spoon, and when the chocolate is thoroughly dis- 
solved pour one quart of boiling water over, using a quart of milk instead 
of the water when chocolate and milk is desired. Let it cook well for ten 
minutes, then serve. 

1357. Chocolat an Lait !l la George Washington.  Have a stone pot 
on the hot range with half a pint of cold water. Break in six tablets of 
one ounce each of Maillard's chocolate, sharply mix with a very clean 
wooden spoon or spatula until it is thoroughly dissolved ; then add two 
quarts of good cold milk, thoroughly heat until it comes to a boil, mixing 
lightly with the wooden spoon meanwhile. Pour it into a hot pitcher, 
and send to the table with cups and powdered sugar separately. 

A pinch of salt represents 205 grains, or a tablespoonful. 

Half a pinch of pepper represents 38 grains, or a teaspoonful.  

A third of apinch of nutmeg represents 13 grains, or half a teaspoonful. 



SUPPPEMEkT. 383 



SUPPLEMENT. 



1338. Lobster & la Bashmore.  Select three fine, fresh lobsters, each 
weighing two pounds; boil them in salted water for ten minutes, then 
take them out and put to cool for eighteen minutes. Pick out all the 
meat, leaving the main body-shells intact for further use. Mince up the 
tail-parts, coral, and claws into pieces a quarter of an inch thick by three 
quarters of an inch wide. Put a sautoire containing half an ounce of fresh 
butter on the hot stove; chop uj very fine one good-sized, sound shallot, 
add it to the butter in the pan, also the minced lobster, and season with a 
light pinch of salt, a light saltspoonful of cayenne pepper, and half a 
glassful of good white wine; let the whole reduce for ten minutes, stirring 
it meanwhile with a wooden spoon. Add one tablespoonful of tomato 
sauce (No. 205), four tablespoonfuls of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), and 
six mushroom-stalks chopped up very fine. Let cook well for ten minutes 

, longer, then set the sautoire on the corner of the stove to keep warm. 
Take the three main shells of the lobsters, split them evenly in two, 
lengthwise, pare the ends off neatly, wash them thoroughly, and wipe 
them dry. These shells should not be longer than four and a half inches. 
Fill the six shells with the prepared lobster, lay two mushroom heads on 
top of each, put them on a tin plate and pour over the remainder of the 
sauce in the sautoire. Set them in the hot oven to bake for five minutes, 
then remove and dress them on a hot dish with a folded napkin, and send 
to the table. 

1339. Eaw Hamburg' Steak.  Chop up two pounds of beef the same 
as for cooked Hamburg steak (No. 526), only selecting more tender pieces, 
and return it to the machine two or three times so as to have it finer. 
Season with one large pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and the third 
of a pinch of nutmeg. Place the meat on a dish, divide it into six small, 
flattened steaks, and throw a raw egg yolk over each one; garnish with 
two shallots, one tablespoonful of parsley, the same quantity of capers, 
and three anchovies, all finely minced, and arranged in clusters around the 
dish. 

1360. Mignons of Lamb, Sauce B^amaise.  Procure a fine, tender leg 

of lamb, bone it with a sharp knife so as to detach the meat from the 
knuckle, beginning from the hip-side downwards. Cut out from this six 
 even pieces or steaks, one inch thick by two and a half in diameter, pare 
them nicely, and with a small, keen knife remove any sinews that are 
liable to adhere to the meat. Lay them on a cold dish, and season with a 
good pinch of salt and a light pinch of pepper, and roll them well, so that 



584 tHE TABLE. 



the seasoning be equally distributed. Put half an ounce of good butter 
in a frying-pan, set it on a brisk fire, and add the pieces, or mignons, im- 
mediately, being careful that they do not lay one on top of the other, and 
cook them very briskly for two and a half minutes on each side. Prepare 
half a pint of B6arnaise sauce (No, 166), pour it on a hot serving-dish, 
dress the six mignons nicely over, one overlapping the other, and send to 
the table immediately. 

Any lamb that may be left over after cutting off the mignons can be 
utilized for minced lamb, soup, or any other purpose desired. 

1361. Hind-quarter of Spring' Lamb.  Procure a medium-sized, fine, 
white hind-quarter of lamb ; pare it neatly, trim the small handle-bone, 
and fold the flank over the ribs, to prevent them being overdone; that 
means that the leg and ribs will be equally cooked the same length of 
time. Tie it well together, then season with one and a half pinches of, 
salt divided evenly, and envelop it well in its caul or leaf-fat ; lay it in a 
roasting-pan, pouring in one tablespoonjul of broth or water, then place 
it in a moderate oven, and let roast for one hour, basting it occasionally 
with its own dripping. Take it from the oven, remove the caul, untie, 
and dress it on a hot dish, adjusting a neat paper ruffle to the handle- 
bone. Skim the fat from off the gravy, strain the latter over the lamb, 
and serve. ' 

1362. Cliicken, Saute h. la Ch. C. DeLtaonico.  Select from a good 
poultry-dealer two fine, tender Philadelphia spring-chickens weighing, 
two pounds each. Singe them over a little alcohol poured onto a plate, 
draw the entrails, wash well the interiors, then wipe them dry with a 
clean cloth. Cut each chicken into six pieces, place them in a sautoire 
with two tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, season with a good pinch of salt and 
one pinch of pepper, then set the sautoire on a very brisk fire, and let 
cook until the pieces assume a good, light brown color (ten minutes will 
suffice), stirring them lightly in the meanVf hile. Chop up very fine one 
sound shallot ; cut one green pepper into small, dice-shaped pieces, also 
the end part only of a medium-sized, peeled .carrot ; place all these with 
the chickens, and let cook together for one minute and a half, then add 
one glassful of good white wine, and let the liquid reduce to one-half) 
which will take ten minutes on a brisk fire, stirring it occasionally. Now 
add one gill of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), a tablespoonful of tomato 
sauce (No. 205), the juice of a good-sized, very sound lemon, and a quar- 
ter of an ounce of fresh butter ; let all cook for ten minutes longer, stir- 
ring it lightly with a spoon. Plunge three canned artichoke-bottoms into 
very hot water, lift them up immediately with a skimmer, wipe them 
thoroughly dry with a napkin, then cut each one into four quarters ; slice 
three medium-sized truffles very fine, and add all these to the chickens 
two minutes before serving. Dress the chickens and sauce on a very 
hot serving-dish, adjust paper ruffles to the ends of the four legs ; gar- 
nish the dish artistically with the artichokes star-shaped. Place a slice of 
truffle on the centre of each artichoke, and a very small, round slice of 
Spanish sweet pepper on top of each truffle, and send to the table very hot. 



SUPPLEMENT. 385 



1363. Chicken, Sant^ ^ la Banhofer.  Select two fine, tender chickens 
weighing two pounds each ; singe them well, draw the entrails, wash 
thoroughly, and wipe very dry; then cut each chicken into six pieces, and 
season them with a good pinch of salt and a light pinch of pepper. Place 
the pieces of chicken in a sautoire with three quarters of an ounce of 
good butter and half a tablespoonful of sweet oil, and set it on a very 
hot stove. Chop up one shallot very fine, and one sound, green pepper 
cut in small, dice-shaped pieces ; when the chickens are of a light brown 
color, add the shallot and pepper, and stir well for one minute; then add 
a wine-glassful of good white wine, and let reduce to one quarter, which 
will take six minutes. Pour in one gill of tomato sauce (No. 205) and one 
and a half gills of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), and let cook rather slowly 
for ten minutes longer, stirring it occasionally. Dress the chickens and 
sauce on a very hot serving-dish, adjust paper ruflSes on the ends of 
the four legs, and decorate the dish with the following garnishing : take 
six canned artichoke-bottoms, spread a tablespoonful of Duxelle (No. 215) 
in the centre of each one ; empty the interiors of six fine, sound, medium- 
sized green peppers, cooked in the oven for five minutes, stufif them with 
Duxelle garnishing (No. 189), and arrange them on top of the artichokes, 
their thin part uppermost, so as to give them a pyramidal shape; then 
lay them on a buttered tin plate or dish, and set them in a slow oven to 
bake for five minutes ; remove them, but while they are baking cut out 
six round pieces of fresh bread, half an inch thick by two and a. half 
inches in diameter ; place them on a hot stove in a frying-pan with half 
a tablespoonful of butter, and let get a light brown color for two minutes. 
Arrange the six artichokes and peppers on top of the pieces of bread, 
garnish the dish nicely, and send to the table at once. 

1364. Filets Mignons & la Lorillard.  After preparing six timbales 
as described below, and when removed from the oven, have ready six 
fine filets mignons as for No. 509, and serve with the following garnish- 
ing and sauce: take six small timbale-molds, measuring one and three 
quarter inches in diameter and two inches deep ; butter well the insides, 
and set them in the ice-box to get thoroughly cold. Have one medium- 
sized, cooked carrot, also one cooked turnip; cut them both with a tube a 
quarter of an inch in diameter by one inch long ; have also half a. 
medium-sized, fine, white cabbage, and trim the outer leaves neatly. Put 
into a stewpan one ounce of salt pork cut into small dice-shaped pieces; 
add the cabbage, and season with half a pinch of pepper ; set the pan on a. 
rather slow fire, cover it tightly, and let cook slowly for thirty minutes, 
without removing the lid ; during this time decorate the six cold timbales 
by laying a slice of truffle, half an inch in diameter, at the bottom of each, 
and just in the centre, and with the aid of a larding-needle arrange a row 
of cooked green peas around this, then decorate half the interior of each 
timbale with half the prepared carrots and turnips, using the utmost care, 
and keeping thfm inclining slightly toward the right, and the other half 
inclining toward the left. Fill up the timbales with the cooked cabbage, 
using a spoon to press it in gently, so that they are filled entirely as far 
25 



386 THE TABLE. 



as the top. Put thera on a roasting-pan, filling it with hot water to half 
the height of the timbales, then place them in a hot oven, and heat from 
three and a half to four minutes. Take them from the oven, and leave 
the pan on the corner of the stove to keep warm. Cut an oval-shaped 
slice from an American loaf of bread, one inch in thickness, pare the edgps 
neatly, then butter it lightly, and place it in the ovfn on a tin plate to get 
a light brown color; two minutes will be sufficient for this; lay it on a 
very hot dish, and dress the six filets mignons on top ojf the bread 
croustade, each one lengthwise and slightly overlapping one another, and 
so on until all are used. Pour over the mignons half a pint of hot Colbert 
sauce (No. igo), to which add whatever parings or pieces of truflle 
remain, one minute before using; then with a towel remove the timbales 
from the pan, one after the other, turn them upside down, unmold, and 
with these decorate the dish, placing one at each end and two on each 
side, then send to the table immediately. 

It would be advisable to prepare and cook the fillets after the timbales 
are removed from the oven. 

1365. Flageolets Sautes au Beurre.  Take three quarters of a quart 
can of fine, French flageolet beans, parboil them in boiling and lightly 
salted water for one and a half minutes, then drain them on a colander, 
and place them immediately in a saucepan on the hot stove with an ounce 
of good butter ; season with a teaspoonful of salt, and shuffle lightly 
with a wooden spoon while cooking for three minutes, and when serving, 
add half a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley. Dress them on a hot 
dish, and serve. 

1366. Eggs k la Post.  Wash and scrape neatly one good-sized, sound 
carrot, then, with a vegetable-scoop, scoop out twelve round pieces; place 
thera in a sautoire with one gill of white broth (No. gg), and a teaspoon- 
ful of good butter. Cook them on the hot range for twenty minutes. 

Place twelve fine, sound, roasted, and shelled Italian chestnuts 
into the sautoire with the carrots, let come to a boil. Remove all the 
skin from two uncooked sausages. Make twelve equal balls out of it, 
place on a tin plate, and bake in the hot oven four minutes. Remove,, and 
add them to the carrots and chestnuts. Season with a light pinch of salt 
and the third of a saltspoonful of red pepper; add one gill of Madeira sauce 
(No. 185). Cook for two minutes longer. Have a silver dish suflSciently 
large to contain twelve eggs so that they do not touch one another. 
Place in the centre of the dish half a pint of hot purfee of chestnuts (No. 
131), then arrange twelve fried eggs over the purSe prepared the same 
as in No. 412. Carefully and equally divide in clusters around the dish, 
the carrots, chestnuts, and sausage balls, then pour the sauce around the 
eggs with a spoon, but none over the eggs. Place on top of each egg 
one thin slice of truffle cut with a tube. Place in the hot oven to heat for 
one minute. Take from out the oven, and serve. 

1367. Oysters Fried k la Arthur Snllivan.  Carefully open thirty 
large, fine, fresh box-oysters; place them in a saucepan with their own 
juice, season with the third of a saltspoonful of red pepper, adding half a. 



SUPPLEMENT. 387 

medium-sized fine, sound lemon, cut into thin slices, one sprig of thyme, 
a small bay-leaf, and a branch of well-washed parsley. Place on the hot 
range, and heat up very fast without boiling, for which, on a very brisk 
fire, it should be done in one minute and a quarter; then place the whple 
in an earthen bowl to cool. 

Beat up one raw egg in a bowl with one gill of cold milk, seasoned 
with a light pinch of pepper and a light pinch of salt; steep the oysters in 
this, one by one, then lightly roll them in cracker-dust; give them a nice 
even shape in the palm of the hand, and lay them on a dish. Heat up 
thoroughly in a frying-pan on the hot range one gill of clarified butter 
and half a gill of olive oil (it must be very hot before placing in the 
oysters), and fry them for one minute on each side. Remove them with 
a skimmer, dress on a hot dish with a folded napkin, and serve with the 
following sauce separately: 

Strain the juice of the oysters into a saucepan, and reduce it to one 
half on the hot range, with half a saltspoonful of red pepper, adding also 
the juice of half a sound lemon and a gill of sauce Espagnole (No. 151). 
Cook for three minutes, add a teaspoonful of chopped chives, pour it into 
a sauce-bowl, and send to the table. 

1368. Lobster Salad h, la Boardman.  Split lengthwise two very fine 
medium-sized, freshly boiled, and cooled lobsters; pick all the meat out 
from the shells, as well as from the cracked claws, suppress both intes- 
tines and pouch. Cut the meat into very small, equal, square pieces, and 
place them in a salad-bowl. Finely chop up, as fine as hashed potatoes, 
three hard-boiled eggs; add them to the lobster. Peel and chop, also very 
fine, two small, sound shallots, and add to the lobster, with one and a. half 
teaspoonfuls of very fine freshly chopped chives and one and a half tea- 
spoonfuls of finely chopped parsley. Chop also, very fine, one root of 
thoroughly pared and well-cleaned sound celery (using nothing but the 
perfect white), add it to the lobster. Season with a light tablespoonful 
and. a half of salt, a teaspoonful and a half of fresh, finely crushed white 
pepper, half a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, -0. tablespoonful and 
a half of olive oil, two tablespoonfuls of very good white vinegar. Mix 
well, then add three tablespoonfuls of freshly made mayonnaise sauce 
(No. 206). Gently but thoroughly mix the whole well together; wipe 
neatly the edges of the salad-bowl with a napkin. Plant right in the 
centre a branch of parsley-greens, and. send to the table. 

1369. Game Pie k la leri P. Morton. Take one fine partridge, one 
grouse, and one medium-sized rabbit ; pick, draw, and singe well. Thor 
oughly bone them. Place the fillets in a saucepan with one tablespoonful 
of clarified butter. Season with one pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, 
and a quarter of a pinch of thyme. Cook on a brisk fire for one minute 
on each side ; then add half a glassful of good Madeira wine, and reduce 
to one half, which will take five minutes. Place in a bowl and let thor- 
oughly cool. Chop up the bones into fine pieces ; place them in a sauce- 
pan with one medium-sized, sound onion cut into slices, a small carrot 
cut the same, one bay-leaf, three cloves, twelve whole peppers, and a 

 



388 THE TABLE. 



blade of thyme. Cook all together with one ounce of butter until it has 
obtained a light brown color ; then add one glassful of Madeira wine, 
half a medium-sized, sound lemon cut in slices, one quart of white broth 
(No. 99), and two ounces of gelatine. Let cook one hour. Then strain 
through a napkin or a fine sieve into a. china bowl, and lay aside to thor- 
oughly cool. Chop up very fine a quarter of a pound of lean, raw veal, 
a quarter of a pound of fresh pork, and six ounces of larding-pork. Sea- 
son with one good pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper. Cut into dice- 
shaped pieces eight truffles, three ounces of cooked smoked beef-tongde ; 
mix well together, and it will be ready for use. Knead well together, on 
a. marble table, wooden boqrd, or in a vessel, half a pound of flour with 
four ounces of butter, then gradually add a gill of cold water, mixing well 
until it is a perfect dough, for five minutes at least without ceasing. Then 
place it in a. cool place, and let rest ten minutes before using. Lightly 
butter the interior of an oval-shaped mold ten inches in length, six inches 
wide, and four and a half high. Place the mold in an iron roasting-pan. 
Roll out three quarters of the dough to one quarter of an inch thick, and 
with it evenly line the inside of the mold, taking special care not to make 
any holes in the dough. Cut some very thin slices of larding-pork, and line 
the dough all around with it. Then place one layer of the forcemeat and 
one layer of the game, and so on, until all is used. Make a hole with a 
teaspoon right in the centre down to half the depth of the patty (p&t6). 
Roll out the other quarter of dough to the same thickness, quarter of an 
inch ; cut a, cover out oval-shaped, and with it cover the p&t6, making a 
small hole in the centre to connect with the other. Decorate the surface 
with leaves made out of the dough, glaze it with the yolk of one fresh 
egg and half a gill of cold water. Place in a moderate oven to cook for 
two hours. Remove from the oven. Put away in the ice-box for six 
hours. 

1370. Plombiere h la Hamilton. Beat up one and a half pints of 
sweet cream as in No. 1 254. Let it rest for half an hour. Neatly pick 
one and a half pints of sound, ripe strawberries ; carefully wash them in 
cold water, then drain them on a colander. Transfer the whipped cream 
into another vessel with a skimmer. Briskly beat the cream again for 
two minutes. Mix in three ounces of powdered sugar, one teaspoonful of  
vanilla flavor, and half a gill of cognac. Mix the whole well together for 
one minute longer. Remove the wire whip, add the prepared strawber- 
ries, and with the aid of a wooden spoon gently mix for one minute. 
Pour the preparation into a well-cleaned, two-quart freezer, cover, and 
lay it into a pail ; fill the pail all around with broken ice (but no rock- 
salt), and let freeze for one hour. Have a fruit-stand ready, then with an 
ice-cream spoon dress the plombifere on the stand, giving a dome shape, 
and immediately send to the table. 

The above majces a delicious dessert, also, when served without being 
frozen. 

1371. Tntti-frntti h. la Gen. Harrison. Line the interior of a three- 
pint melon-form with a pint of vanilla ice-cream (No. 1271). Cut four 



SUPPLEMENT. . 389 

ounces of candied apricots into small pieces, also four ounces of candied 
cherries into halves. Mix these together. Evenly spread half the quan- 
tity of the fruits all around the ice-cream in the form. Carefully arrange 
a pint of raspberry water-ice (No, 1281) evenly around the fruits, Sfjread 
the balance of the fruits all around the water-ice ; then fill the form with 
a pint of pistache ice-cream (No. 1275). Tightly cover the form. Lay it 
in a pail with a layer ot broken ice and rock-salt at the bottom, and then 
fill up to the surface with the same. Let freeze for one and a half hours. 
Unmold the tutti-frutti ; dress on a glass stand, and serve with the fol- 
lowing sauce : put in a vessel a pint of whipped cream (No. 1254) with 
two ounces of powdered sugar and a gill of maraschino. Beat the whole 
well together for two minutes. Pour it over the tutti-frutti, and immedi- 
ately send to the table. 

1372. Frogs' Legs k la Merrill.  Neatly pare off the claws of half a 
pound of very fine, fat, fresh frogs' legs. Cut them into pieces at each 
joint. Place them in a saucepan on the hot reinge, with half an ounce of 
very good butter. Season with one pinch of salt and half a saltspoonful 
of red pepper. Cook on a brisk fire for five minutes, then add a wine- 
glassful of Madeira wine, with two finely minced truffles; reduce for three 
minutes. Crack into a bowl three egg yolks, add to it half a pint of 
sweet cream, beat well together one minute, pour it into the pan with the 
frogs, then gently shuffle the pan in opposite directions until the sauce 
thickens, which will take two minutes and a half. Pour into a hot soup- 
tureen, and serve. 

1373. Strawberries.  After selecting and thoroughly washing the 
berries, fill the cans and cover with a twenty-five-degree syrup, seal up, 
and cook five minutes. Open the vent, to let hot air out, about one min- 
ute, then close the vent and put away. The best berries are in market 
between June 7 and 14. 

1374. Pineapple.  The best pineapples (the sugar-loaf) come to' 
market between June 15 and July 15. After selecting the ripest fruit, 
pare and cut all the eyes out, take the core out, cut in slices, and fill 
cans ; cover with a twenty-five-degree sVrup ; seal up and cook twenty 
minutes. Open vent to let hot air out, close, and put away. 

1375. Asparagus.  The best asparagus for canning is the Colossal, 
from Monmouth County, New Jersey, and the best time from May 12 
to June 12. After selecting the large, perfect spears, wash thoroughly, 
then scald about ten minutes, and after filling the cans full, cover with a 
light salt water, and seal the cans up, leaving the vent open; then cook- 
ten minutes ; then close the vent and cook two and one half hours. Open 
vent to let the gas out, and close it again, 

1376. Bhnbarb, or Pie-plant. After jjeeling and cutting the rhubarb 
in pieces about one inch long, fill cans and cover with a light syrup, seal 
up, and boil five minutes ; open vent to let the air out, close, and put 
away. The best time is from May 20 to June i. 

1377. Cherries.  The best cherry, the white Ox-heart, ripens between 
June 20 and July i. Select the fruit, fill cans, and cover with a twenty- 



39 THE TABLE. 



five-degree syrup, seal up, cook fifteen minutes, open Vent, close, and 
put away. 

1378. Gooseberries.  Select the berries when green, between June 
17 and July i. After filling the cans, cover with a light syrup, seal up,' 
and bathe five minutes, open vent, close, and put away. 

1379. Cnrrant Jelly.  The best jelly can only be made before the cur- 
rants are fully ripe  between June 25 and July 3. After scalding the 
currants well, press them through a flannel bag, and while the juice is 
hot, boil six or seven pounds of the best crushed sugar with one gallon of 
juice, watching closely until it attains the proper consistency; then pour 
in molds to cool. 

Another way to make a very delicate jelly is to boil one gallon of juice 
about ten minutes, and while boiling hot stir in eight pounds of granulated 
sugar, and keep stirring until all dissolved, then pour into molds. 

1380. Raspberries.  The best time is between July 5 and 15, and pro- 
ceed same as strawberries. 

1381. Blackberries and Whortleberries between July 15 and August 
15. After carefully washing the berries, put on any degree of syrup you 
wish, as this fruit will make pies pr do for the table. Seal up, and cook 
eight minutes; open vent, close, and put away. 

1382. Peas, Corn, and Lima Beans are so hard to keep that it is im- 
possible for a family to put them up. They require a greater heat than 
boiling water, and have to be cooked in a super-heated steam chest. 

1383. Egg-plnms and Green-gages are best when nearly ripe be- 
tween August 15 and September i. After filling cans cover with a 
twenty-five-degree syrup and cook ten minutes, then open the vents, close 
and put away. 

1384. Tomatoes.  Between August 15 and September 15, select 
thoroughly ripe tomatoes, scald them about two minutes in hot watei', so 
that the skin will peel off very thin to leave the perfect shape of the fruit ; 
then fill the cans as full as you can press them in; seal them and cook 
twenty minutes, then put away. 

1385. Peaches and Bartlett Pears.  Last of August to last of Septem- 
ber, select ripe fruit; pare carefully; fill cans and cover with a twenty-five- 
degree syrup; seal up, cook twenty minutes, then open vent, close and 
put away. 

1386. String Beans are best in October. Select the small refugee 
beans; after taking strings off. wash and scald well; then fill cans with 
whole beans, and cover with a light brine. Seal up; cook one half hour, 
then open vent, close again, and Cook three fourths of an hour more, then 
put away. 

1387. Apples.  Newtown pippins are the best about November 15. 
Pare and quarter; take cores out; then fill cans and cover with any 
strength syrup required. Seal up, and cook five minutes, open vent, 
close and put away. 

Six pounds of the best crushed sugar to a gallon of water will make 
a syrup of twenty to twenty-five degrees. 



SUPPLEMENT. 



391 



1388. Tenderloin Broil il la Stanton. Prepare three fillets exactly as 
in No. 503, and one minute before they are cooked, lightly devil them on 
both sides ; then broil half a piinute on each side. 

Chop very fine one small, well-peeled, sound shallot, place it in a small 
saucepan on the hot range with a teaspoonful of butter, fry for one min- 
ute; then add half a glassful of good white wine, and reduce to one half. 
Add one medium-sized, sound pickle, and one sweet pepper cut into small 
dice-shaped pieces. Season with half a pinch of salt and half a saltspoonful 
of red pepper; add half a gill of Spanish sauce (No. 151). Cook for one 
minute rather briskly, then pour the sauce on a hot serving-dish, dress 
the fillets over it; arrange six heart-shaped croiitons (No. 133) around the 
dish, place a slice of truffle on top of each crouton, then a round slice of 
Spanish sweet pepper, cut with a tube, over each slice of truffle, and send 
to the table. 

1389. Filets Mignons a la Brown.  Chop very fine one medium-sized, 
sound, peeled shallot, place it in a small saucepan on the hot range, with 
a teaspoonful of very good butter; heat well for one minute without 
browning; add half a wine-glassful of good Madeira wine, boil for two min- 
utes, then add half a teaspoonful of freshly chopped tarragon, one good-sized 
sweet pepper cut in small dice-shaped piex;es, twelve stoned and stuffed 
olives, six whole mushrooms, and one artichoke-bottom, cut in dice- 
shape, also a gill of sauce Espagnole (No. 151). Season with half a 
pinch of salt and half a saltspoonful of red pepper. Cook for three min- 
utes and a half, then pour this garnishing on a hot serving-dish. Nicely 
dress over it six freshly cooked mignons filets as in No. 509, one over- 
lapping another; decorate the dish with six heart-shaped croutons (No. 
133), and serve. 

1390. Broiled Grouse k la Pomeroy.  Prepare and broil three fine, 
tender grouse, precisely the same as for No. 854, but one minute before 
they are cooked, lightly devil them, and then gently broil again for half 
a minute on each side. 

Place in a small saucepan on the hot range one medium-sized, sound, 
peeled, and finely chopped shallot, with a tablespoonful of good butter; 
cook for one minute, then add two chopped mushrooms, one chopped 
pickle ; moisten with a tablespoonful of English sauce ; add a light, tea- 
spoonful of English mustard ; mix all well together. Seasoji with half a 
pinch of salt and half a saltspoonful of red pepper. Cook for one minute 
and a quarter. Pour the sauce on ^. hot serving-dish, place the grouse 
over it, decorate the dish with six slices of broiled bacon (No. 754), six 
thin half slices of lemon; arrange six slices of truffles in the centre of the 
slices of lemon, and serve very hot. 

1391. Mdzagran & la General Bngeaa.  This will be found a superior 
and pleasantly stimulating summer beverage for ladies, as well as for the 
sterner seX. 

Prepare the same quantity of coflEee as in No. 1349. Have six goblets 
half filled with clean ice, pour in the coffee, evenly divided ; add a pony 
of good cognac to each glass, mix thoroughly with a teaspoon, and serve. 



592 THE TABLE. 



The above is a delicious and healthful after-dinner summer drink, and 
is enjoyed in nearly all the large cities of Europe, especially by military 
men, who prefer it to the usual after-dinner demi-tasse, or " gloria," as 
they call it in Paris. 

The name is derived from the village of Mazagran, Province d'Oran, 
Algeria, famous for a long and heroic siege in 1840, wherein one hundred 
and twenty-three French soldiers were victorious against twelve thousand 
Arabs. 

1392. Mazagran a la General Dnfour.  The same as above, only sub- 
stituting a pony of Swiss kirsch instead of cognac. 

1393. Smelts k la Tan Volkenbnrgh.  Wash well, and thoroughly 
dry, eighteen fine, fresh Long Island smelts. Split them right along the 
backbone in the centre; remove the backbone of each. Season with a 
pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper; sprinkle them with half an ounce 
of flour, then place them in a J>an with one ounce of good butter on the hot 
range; and fry for two minutes on each side, or until they obtain a good 
light brown color. Dress them on a hot dish; place in a pan one ounce of 
good butter, fry it until it becomes of a good nut-brown color; add to it a 
tablespoonful of vinegar, then pour over the smelts; decorate the dish all 
around with parsley-greens, and serve. 

1394. Tonidtoes with Eice k la Watson. Wash in cold water six fine, 
red, sound, equal-sized tomatoes, wipe them dry, then cut off the top of 
each tomato (keeping them on a plate until needed); remove the seeds of 
the tomatoes with a vegetable-scoop. Season the inside of each with half 
a pinch of pepper and half a pinch of salt.  

Place them in a well-buttered pan. Place two ounces of well-picked 
rice in a cup or in a dish, add to it one teaspoonful of melted butter, 
half a medium-sized, sound, peeled, and finely chopped shallot; season 
with half a pinch of salt only, mix all well together, then put into 
each tomato one teaspoonful of rice ; place the tops on as a cover, sprinkle 
a little clarified butter over, and then cover them with a well-buttered 
paper. Bake them in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. 

Thoroughly wash six large, fresh mushrooms. Cut off the stalks, chop 
up very fine half a sorund, peeled shallot, as well as the mushroom stalks, 
place ill a pan with a tablespoonful of good butter and two drops of lemon 
juice. Season with half a pinch of salt and half a saltspoonful of pepper. 
Cook five minutes, without browning,, then add the mushroom-tops, with 
half a glassful of Madeira wine ; reduce for two minutes ; add now half a 
gill of demi-glace (No.' 185); let cook for five minutes longer. 

Dress the tomatoes on a hot serving-dish, place one head of mush- 
room on top of each tomato, upside down, pour a little of the sauce over 
the six mushrooms, and the rest on the dish around the tomatoes; arrange 
a thin slice of truffle on top of each head of mushroom, and send to the 
table. 



UOW TO CAS VS. 393 



HOW TO CARVE. 



The art of cookery and carving is an old one. During the Roman 
Empire it was taught by professors in the schools, and had at that time 
attained a high standard. France leads all nations in the art of cooking 
and carving, although the United States is not far behind in this respect. 

Good cooking and carving go hand in hand. It is no trifle to prepare 
and cook a good dinner; but it is an easy matter to spoil the effect, if not 
the entire dinner, by negligent carving. 

The first and most important factor is a strong and very sharp knife. 

Chickens.  Lay the roasted chicken (of three to four pounds) on its 
side. Stick your fork into the legand'lift it up, meanwhile holding down 
firmly the rest of the chicken. Then cut through the joint on the back; 
pressing the joint between the leg and second joint, cut through. 
Stick your fork into the' wing so as not to interfere with the knife; cut 
through the joint and loosen the meat surrounding it; pull down with the 
fork and press firmly on the carcass with the knife. If done carefully, you 
can pull all the meat from the breast with the wing. Then cut each breast, 
crosswise, in half. Turn around, and proceed as in the first operation. 

Turkey.  Cut away theleg the same as with a chicken. The leg of a 
turkey being larger than that of a chicken, it would be advisable to cut 
into slices the leg and second joint. After the leg is cut off, stick your 
fork into the breast-bone; hold the fork firmly with the left hand; then,, 
with the sharp knife in your right hand, starting from the outside of the 
breast, proceed to cut, carefully, thin slices, until you reach the bone. 
Then turn, and proceed the same as before. 

Serve each person with a piece of the dark and a slice of the white meat. 

Should the turkey be stuffed, place a little of the stuffing on each plate. 
A capon, large chicken, or English pheasant should be carved the same way. 

Partridges.  In America only the breasts of the birds are generally 
eaten, the legs being strong and bitter. Stick your fork straight into the 
breast-bone; cut one slice from the outside breast; then cut close along- 
side of the breast-bone and around the wing, carefully pushyigall the meat 
from off both breasts, one after the other. 

Gronse.  The grouse is generally carved the same way as the partridge. 

Canvas-back Duck.  The " King of Birds."  The breast only is 
carved, served, and eaten. Stick the fork straight and firmly into the 
middle of the breast-bone. Commence from the neck down to the back, 
straight to the back-bone, and-around the back; then from the point of 
starting, around the collar-bone. Cut the joint from off the wing. Com- 
mence cutting again from the point of starting; carefully and gently 
carving off the whole breast, so that no meat remains. Proceed precisely 
the same with the other side. When finished, there will remain only the 
carcass. 



394 THE TABLE. 



Red-head, black-head, mallard, teal, &c., are carved the same as the 
canvas-back. 

Tame duck, duckling, goose, &c. , are carved as a chicken, unless they 
are over four or five pounds, then they should be carved the same as a 
turkey or a capon. 

For small birds, such as squab, snipe, plover, woodcock, &c. , no carv- 
ing is necessary, as they are generally served whole. 

Saddle of Mutton, Lamb, or Yenison should always be carved  

especially for private families  lengthwise first, on both sides of the spinal 
bone, then crosswise downward. Special care should be taken to stick 
the fork right jn the centre of the saddle, and holding it firmly while carv- 
ing with a very sharp knife, and keepiflg as near the bone as possible, till 
down to the end on both sides. When all detached, cut it crosswise into 
small pieces of about half or three-quarters of an inch thick, and serve. 

Steak. ^Sirloin steak can be carved in various ways  crosswise, 
lengthwise, in small or large pieces, as desired. 

When serving, the cut part should always be laid uppermost. I would 
suggest, though, carving it diagonally into six fine, even slices, till you 
reach the fat part. When carved this way it makes it look inviting, and 
has a beautiful effect. Always place a small piece of the fa-t on each plate 
when serving. 

Tenderloin, or Fillet.  Fillet is carved straight ( in as many pieces as 
desired, but when serving, the cut part should always be served the same 
as the sirloin, uppermost. 

Boast Beef.  As soon as the rib-beef is roasted to perfection, as men- 
tioned in No. 527, remove it from the hot oven, place it always on a hot 
dish, with the ribrbones downward ; should it be crusty on top, cut off 
just a little from the surface, which is generally so hard that often it is an 
impediment in cutting the slices to the desired perfection. Stick in the 
fork-tines lengthwise, on top of the roast, near the edge, in a slanting 
manner, so as to avoid pricking the lean part of the roast and the result- 
ing loss of juice or blood; hold firmly the fork with the left hand, and with 
a large, sharp knife in the right hand, carefully cut, in even, small slices 
a quarter of an inch thick, right down to the rib-bones; gently make a 
cut underneath, so as to have each slice separate from one another; 
then serve'. 

Roasted Leg of Mutton.  Jf , practicable, when carving a leg of mutton 
 a patent handle should be adjusted to the end bone, which would be a sub- 
stitute for the fork, and an avoidance of soiling the hands at the same time. 
Begin carving small, thin, even slices, about quarter of an inch in thick- 
ness, straight or diagonally down to the bone, till you come to the end 
bone, then lengthwise underneath to the end. On account of the much 
thinner meat on the other side of the leg, carve it diagonally, and serve 
one piece from each side. 

Boasted Leg of Lamb.  is to be carved exactly the same as the leg 
of mutton. 



CELEBRATED MENUS, 



MANY OF WHICH WERE PREPARED 



MR. ALESSANDRO FILIPPINI. 



CELEBRATED MENUS. 



597 



SERVICE A LA FRANQAISE. 

lER SERVICE. 

Consomme k la Colbert. 
Potage a la puree d'asperges vertes. 

Saumon ^ la Chambord. 
Longe de veau k la Regence. 

Cfitelettes de presole k la chicoree. 

Pite chaud ^ la Toulouse. 

Filets de li^vre a la Romaine. 

Cailles \. la Dumanoir. 

3ME SERVICE. 

Galantines de dindes aiix trufTes. 
Faisans piques, rods, bread sauce. 

Punch k la Romaine. 

Artichauts k I'HolIandaise. 

Champignons k la Bordelaise. 

Timbale de poires k la Duchesse. 

Eavarois d'abricots, 

Glaces et Dessert. 



SERVICE A LA FRAN^AISE. 

lER SERVICE. 

Potage k la Palestine. 
Consomme aux quenelles de volaille. 

Barbue, sauce Hollandaise. 

Punch Imperial, 

Gigot de mouton, braise. 

Cfttelettes d'agneau k la purtSe de celeri. 

Ris de veau k la Toulouse, en croustade. 

Becassincs k la mardchale. 

Timbale d'homards k la Bechamel. 

2ME SERVICE. 

Quartier de chevreuil, sauce poivrade. 

Dindonneaiix rotis. 

Souffle aux pommes. 

Cardons k I'EspagnoIe. 

Fonds d'artichauts kla Barigoulc. 

Gelee d'oranges k la mandarine. 

Croquante de Genoise k la creme framboisee, 

Glaces et Dessert. ' 



SERVICE A L'ANGLAISE. 

POTAGES. 

Potage d'orge a la Princesse. 
Potage chasseur aux Grives. 

KELEVKS. 

Soles bouillies, sauce percil. 
Longe de veau aux legumes. 

entrl:es. 

Faisans a la P^iigueux. 

Pieds d'agneau, sauce tartare. 

Poulets aux Noutlles. 

Petites chartreuses k la Royale. 



SERVICE A L'ANGLAISE, 

POTAGES. 

Potage aux monies. 
Consomme k la Royale. 

RELEVlte. 

Truites grillees, maltre d'hdtel. 
BoBuf sale aux legumes. 

ENTRIES. 

Pate de poulets k I'Anglaise. 
C6telettes d'agneau k la Villeroi. 
Filets de chevreuil au macaroni. 
Panpiettes de soles k I'ltalienne. 



DEUXIEME SERVICE. 

Rons. 

Fintades r6des, cresson . 

Selle de chevreuil piqu^e. 

BOUTS. 

Tartes aux framboises. 
Pommes meringu^es, 

ENtHEMETS . 

Artichauts, sauce Hollandaise. 

Cailles en chaudlrold k la Gelee. 

Bavarois au Cafe. 

Eclairs aux fraises. 

SIDE TABLE. 

Langue Salee  Bceuf rdt*. 



DEUXIEME SERVICE. 

ROTIS. 

Grouses bardees . 

Chapon au cresson. 

BOUTS. , 

Dampfirouilles k la Vanille. 
Pommes k la Richelieu. 

ENTREMETS. 

Chicoree aux oeufs poches. 
Salade'de queues d'Ecrevisses. 
Bavarois aux noix fraiches. 
Jambonneaux en biscuit. 

SIDE TABLE. 

Noix de veau  Langue  Pite de Gibier, 



598 



THE TABLE, 



SERVICE A LA RUSSE. 



CrSme d'orge aux ailerons. 
Consomme k la Diibarry. 

HORS D'cEUVRES. 

Croustades de riz au Salpicon. 
Bouch^es ^ la pur^e de Gibier. 



Turbot, sauce Diplomatc. 
Pifece de Sandres frits. 

RELEV^. 

Filets de bceuf a la Flamande. 
Noix de veau k la Godard. 

ENTRIES. 

Escalopes de chevreuil, olives, 

Poulardes a la Perigueux. 

Galantines de mauvjettes. 

Buisson de petits homards. 

Punch glace. 

ROTIS. 

Ferdreaux r6tis, sauce pain. 

Dindonneaux piques. 

I LEGUMES. 

Truffes au champagne. 
Fends d*artichauts, Italienne. 

ENTREMETS. 

Pouding jle cabinet, marasqum. 

Charlotte de pommes, vaniUe. 

Gateau d'amandes k la chantilly. 

Gelee moscovite, garni. 

Dessert. 



SERVICE A LA RUSSE. 

POTAGES. 

Consomme printanier Royale. 

Potage, fausse tortue. 

HORS d'cEUVRES. 

Croquettes k la Parisienne. 
Bouch^es k la Reine. 

POISSONS. 

Turbot k I'Hollapdaise. 
Truites, sauce G^nevoise. 

RELEVis. 

Longe de veau aux Legumes. 
Filet de boeuf au macaroni. 

ENTRIES. 

P4t^-chaud de levraut, truffes. 

( 'anetons aux olives. 

Mayonnaises des homards. 

Timbale de faisans, k la getee. 

Punch k la Romaine. 



Poulardes du Mans au cresson. 
Selle de chevreuil, rdtie. 

LEGUMES. 

Petits pois garnis de fleurons. 
Artichauts kla Barigout. 

ENTREMETS. 

Pouding Saxon k la Vanille. 

Baba chaud k I'ananas. 

Riz k I'Imperatrice. 

Mac^doine de fruits, marasquin. 

Dessert. 



FAMILLE IMP^RIALE DE FRANCE. FAMILLE ROYALE D'ANGLETERRE. 



POTAGES. 
Pot-au-feu. P4tes d'ltalie. 

HORS D'cEUVRE. 

Petits p^tes au natural. 

GROSSES PIECES. 

Sauraon ila sauce G^nevoisc. 

Pi^ce de boeuf k la Jardiniere. 

Rosbif garni de croquettes. 

ENTRIES. 

Tetc de veau en tortue. 

Petites timbales a la Vallifere. 

Grenadins a la chicoree. 

Supreme de volaille aux pointes d'asperg 

Chaudfroid de fbie-gras. 

S&lade de filets de soles a la ravigote. 

KOTIS. 

Faisans et chapons au cresson. 

ENTREMETS.. 

Artichauts frits. 

Choux-fleurs, sauce au beurre. 

Haricots verts sau^^ 

Fpinards, au veloute. 

Charlotte Russe au chocolat. 

Timbale de poires k I'ltalienne, 

Gelee mac^doine de fruits. 

^Pains k la Mecque. 

Dessert. 



POTAGES. \ 

A la tortue. Consommi aux quenelles. 



Turbot bouilli, ^perlans frits. 
Soles a la matelote Normande. 

RELEV^ 

Filets dc bceuf aux nouilles. 
Poulardes k la Ro^^ale. 

ENTRIES. 

Rissoles de voIaiUes k la D^Artois. 

Mauviettes farcies au gratin. 

Cdtelettes de mouton k la Soubise. 

Epigrammes de volaille aux haricots verts. 

Fricandeau k la chicoree. 

Boudins de brochet, sauce homard. 

EOTIS. 

Faisans, ptarmigans, ortolans. 

EELEV^. 

Beignets de griesz, pouding Nesselrodc. 

ENTREMETS. 

Sabifis frits. Croque-en-bouche. 
Creme de riz au jus. 
Galantine de poulets. 
Petits babas chauds. 
Bavarois au chocolat. 



CELEBRATED MENUS. 



399 



FAMILLE ROYALE DE PRUSSE. 

POTAGES. 

Consoram^ de volaillc h. la Royale. 
Potage tortus & la Fran^aise. 

HORS D'cEUVRESS. 

Tartelettcs de nouilles au foie-gras. 
Cannelons a la puree de Gibier. 

POISSONS. 

Tiirbot garni, sauce aux huitres. 
Darne deMiumon, sauce crevettes. 

REI-ETfe. 

Bceuf fume de Hambourg, legumes varies. 

Longe de veau de Pontoise. 

Tomates et c6pes Provenjale. 

ENTREES. 

Cdtes de daim aux champignnns, sauceVenaison. 

Filets de poulets aux pointes d'asperges. 

Homards a la gclee, sauce Mayonnaise. 
Galantines de caiUes aux trufies^saucc Cumber- 
land. 



Dindonneaux piques. Faisans Boh^me. 

LEGUMES . 

Fonds d*artichauts & la Moelle. 
i'etits pois k la Franyaisc. 

ENTREMETS. 

Pouding souffle ^ la Vanille. 

Crofites aux cerises a la Montmorency. 

Charlotte printani^re aux fraises. 

Gelee moscovite, gamie d'ananas. 

Glaces. Compotes. Dessert. 



FAMILLE ROYALE D'lTALIE. 
Potage d'orge & I'Ecossaise. 

RELEV^. 

Turbot i la Eordelaise. 
Noix de veau k la Gastronome. 

ENTRIES. 

Poulardes aux pointes d'asperges. 

Caillcs .'i la- Richelieu. 

Aspic i la Dominicaine. 

LEGUMES. 
Artichauts k la Barigoi' 

HORS d'ceuvre, 

Jambon d'York k la gelee. 

Punch au Kirsch. 

ROTIS. 

Faisans piqu&, 

Venaison k I'Anglaise. 

Salades, 

ENTREMETS, 

Bavarois i la Florentine. 

Suidoise d'abricots k I'orientale. 

Cussy \ la Portugaise. 

Glaces aux Fruits. 



MAISON IMP^RIALE D'AUTRICHE. 

MAIGSB. 

Pot^e de bisque k la Cardinale. 

Sardines a Thuile. 

Aprischeau Parmesan. 

Saumon du Rhin, G^noisc. 

Omelette aux tniffes. 

Chicor^e gamie dc filets de schilL 

Sarcelles rOties, au jus d'orange. 

Salade mcIee. 

Ponding k l* Anglaise. 

Creme au marasquin. 

Compote melee. 

GRAS. 

Potage Duchesse, quenelles. 

Chaudfroid de perdreaux. 

C&tclcttes d'agneau, papUlotcs. 

Piece de bceuf k la Napolitaine. 

Polpetti et foie-gras, champi^nons- 

Eminc^e de chevrcuil k la Russe. 

Chicor6e aujus. 

Poulets grilles. 

Olsons rOtis au cresson. 

Saladc ml^e. 
Gel^e au chanq>agne. 



FAMILLE ROYALE D'ESPAGNE. 



Crfime de perdreaux k la Princesse, 

Consomme al'lmperatrice, 

Nouilles kla Napolitaine. 

JCer^s Sec. 

HORS d'ceuvre. 

Petits pates k la Bechamel. 
Chdiectubriand. 

RELEV^. 

Saumon garni, k la Royale. 

Jambon, sauce en Malaga. 

Madire de Carpenter. 

ENTREES, 

Timbale de foie-gras k la Montesquieu. 
. Marsala de Sicite, 
Supreme de poulets aux truffes. 

Triorata. 

Salade d'homards en Bellevue. 

Vin. du Rhin. 

UtGinilES. 

Petits pois k la Fran9aise. 

Cdte-Rotie. 



Chapons gamis de cailles. 

Dinde en galantine. 

Cha'mpagne. 



400 



THE TABLE, 



FAMILLE ROYALE DE BELGIQUE. 

POTAGES. 

Bisque aux ecrevisses. 
Consomme Printanier. 

HORS D'cEUVRES. 

Petites bouchees aux crevettes. 
Croquettes de volaille. 

RELEVliS. 

Turbot a I'Hollandaise. 
Filet de bcEuf k la Financiire. 

ENTRIES. 

Ris de veau aux pedts pois. 

Cailles ^ la Bohemienne. 

Filets de soles ii la V^nitienne. 

Mayonnaise d'homards. 

Punch au Kirscb. 

LEGUMES. 

Asperges, sauce au beurre. 
Haricots verts k la mattre d'h6tel. 



Selle de sanglier, sauce venaison. 
Eperlans frits. 

PATISSERIE. 

Timbale de fruits. 
Pain d'ananas. 



FAMILLE ROYALE DE SUEDE. 

Potage a I'Imperiale. 

Madire. 

Creme d'asperges. 

Xeres, 

Corbeilles de truffes k la Lucullus. 

Allouettes en caisses. 

Turbot k la marini&re. 

Chdteau d*Yqiiin, 

Saumon'k la Regence. 

Train de chevreuil, sauce Venaison. 

Chapons, truffes. 

Chdteau- Mar got. 

Epigrammes d'agneau, puree d'artichauts. 

Chdtt au-Rouzan, 

Croustades de cailles, k la Talleyrand, 

Poulets nouveaux kla Reine. 

Puree gelinottes k la Czartoriski. 

Tokay. 

Punch k l*Imp6riale, 

Becasses et faisans, r6tis, salade. 

Terrine de foie-gras de Strasbou'i^. 

Champagne. 

Asperges nouvelles, sauce au beurre. 

Fonds d'artichauts k laI*yonnaise._ 

Vin d' oporto. 

Timbales d'ananas kla Florentines. 

Chdteau Laffite. 

Gelee de fraises k la Sultane. 

Clos' Vougeot. 
Plombieres, crme de noyau. 

Cre-ntant. 

Croque-en-bouche, Napolitaine. 

Corbeilles Viennoises, Compotes assorties. 

Constance. 

Dessert. 



FAMILLE ROYALE DE GRECE. 



FAMILLE ROYALE DE PORTUGAL. 



POTAGES. 

Okra de Sterlets. Tortue de mer. 

HORS d'ceuvre. 
Cromesquis aux truffes. Hu!tres grill6es. 

RELEV^. 

Truttes k la Chambord. Dinde a la chipolata. 



Supreme de perdreaiix, aux truffes. 
Timbale de truffes au champagne. 

ROTIS. 

Gelinottes et Faisans. 

/ 

entremets. 

Or^me d'ananas (sur socle) garni de patisserie. 

Glaces. 



Potage tortue et consomm^. 

Rissoles k la puree de Gibier. 

Rougets grilles, -k la maitre dHidtel. 

Jambon, sauce Mad^re. 

Petits pois. 

Poulets a la chevali^re. 

Cailles k la Portugaise. 

Aspic de crevettes. 

Chaudfroid de becassines. 

Poulardes rdties et ortolans. 
Salads. 

Asperges, sauce au beurre. 

Quartiers d'artichaut-- k la Lyonnaise. 

Abricots a la Cond^. 

Gel^e k I'orange et Fruits. 

Glaces Varices. 



CELEBRATED MENUS. 40I 



FAMILLE ROYALE A'HOLLANDE. 

Potage Wi h. I'Americaine. 
Consomm^ ^ la Colbert. 

Turbot, sauce HoUandaise ct crevettes. 

Filet dc boeuf k la Flamande. 

Endives aux oeufs poch^s. 

Dinde b. rambassadrice. 

Cdtelettcs de mouton h. la Perigueux. 

Pain dc gibier aux suprmes, 

Homards h. la Remoulade. 

Petits pois Ji I'Anglaise. 

Perdreaux ct chapons rfitis. 

Salade de tomates et polonaise. 

Croustade de riz k la Duchesse. 

Gel^c k la ciermont. 

Glaces. Dessert. 



HONNEUR AUX ENFANTS DE LA 
FRANCE. ^ 

Banquet d' Adieu 

OfFert a Mons. TAtniral Reajneaud, 

Le 16 Novembre, 1863. 

Huitres. 
Potage pur^e de Gibier. 

VARI^. HORS D'CEUV^ES. VARI^. 

 Boucbees de Tortuc. 

RELEV^. 

Saumon Portugaise, 
Fillet of beef k la Portug^e. 

ENTRIES. 

Dinde, truffes k la Toulouse, 

Cailles, puree de celeri. 

Cdtelettes de Faisans aux champignons. 

pates de Gibier. Galantine aux truflFes. 

SORBET. 

A la Regence. 

ROTIS. 

Becasses. Canvas-back duck. 

ENTREMETS. 

Petits pois, Tomates farcies. Flageolets. 

Chou-fleur. 



Savarin Chantilly. Gateaux mille-feuillcs. 

Charlotte Croque-en-Bouche. 

Fruits. Dessert assortie. 

Delmonico* 



402 THE TABLE. 



<| B A LLI> 

IN HONOR OF ' 

HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE PRINCE OF WALES, 

NE\N YORK, OCTOBER 12, 1860. 



JlTtitu. 



Consomm^ de Volaille, 
HuStres k la Poulette. 
Saiimon. Tntites. 

Au Beurre de Montpelier, 
Filets de Bceuf a la Bellevue. Galantines de Dindes a la Royale. 

pates de Gibiers a la Moderne.  Cochons de Lait k la Parisiennc. 

Pains de Lifevres Anglais Histories. Terrines de Nerac aux TrufFes. 

Jambons de Westphalie k la Gendarme. 
Longes de Boeuf a I'Ecarlate. 



Mayonnaises de Volailles. 


Salades d'Homards a la Ru5s< 




Grouse. 


Becassines. 


Becasses. 




Faisans. 


GeleesauMadfere. ''';V'% 


Macedoines de Fruits. . 


Cremes Fran9ai5e5. ^ '' ;J ',\ ' 


Glaces a la VaniUe et Citron. 


Petits Fours. 


Charlotte Russes. ^ 


Peches, 


Poires, Raisins de Serre, etc. 



PIECES MONTIES. 

La Reine Victoria et le Prince Albert. 
Lc Great Eastern. Le Vase de Flora. 

Silver Fountain, etc. , etc. / 



DelTttonico, 



CELEBRATED MENUS,. 



403 



DINNER BY THE CITIZENS OF NEW YORK, 

TO HIS EXCELLENCY 

o<] President Johnson, !> 

IN HONOR OF 

His Visit to the City, Wednesday, August 2g, 1866, 



illcitu. 



ConsomiTie k la Chatelaine, 



Varies. 



HORS D (EUVEES. 

Timbales de Gibier i la Venitienne. 



Bisque aux Quenelles. 



Saumon a la Livonienne. 
Selle d' Agneau atix ConCombres. 



RELEVES. 
ENTRIES. 



Suprmes de volaille k la D^uphine. 
Ballotins de Pigeons k la Lucullus. 

Filets de Canetons k la Tyrolienne, 



Panpiettes de Kingfish k la Villeroi. 

Filet de Bceuf k la Pocahontas. 

C6telettes k la Marechale. 
Ris de Veau k la Mon^omery. 
Boudins k la Richelieu. 



SORBET, 

A la Dunderberg. 



B^casses Bardces 

Petit Pois. 
Aubergines. 



Peches k la New York. 
Mac^doine de Fruits au Curafoa. 
Bavarois aux Fraises. 
Crme aux Amandes. 
Reausejour au Malaga. 
G&teau Soleil. 



ENTREMETS. 



Monument de Washington, 
Temple de la Libert^. 
Casque Remain. 
Char de la Paix. 
Cassolette Sultane. 



Fruits et Dessert. 

PIECES MONTIES. 



Ortolans Farcis, 

Tomates Farcies. 
ArticKauts k la Barigoul. 

Abricots Siciliens^ 
Moscovites aux Oranges. 
GeUe Califomtenne, 
Meringue Chantilly. 
Mille-feulUes Pompadour. 
Biscuits Glaces aiix Pistaches. 



VINS. 



Fontaine des Aigles. 
Trophee Nationale. 
Colonne de I'Union. 
Rotonde Egyptienne. 
Comes d*Abondances. 



POTAGES. 

Amontillado 1824. 

POISSONS. 
Hochheimerberg. 

RELEVES. 

Champagne. 

ENTRIES. 

ChAteau Margaux '48. 

Rons. 

Clos de Vougeot. 

KNTREMETS SUCRES. 

Tokai Impirialc. 

DESSERT. 

Mad^re Faguart. 



26 



404. THE TABLE. 



City ok imelbournk 

INAUGURATION DINNER 

TO THE 

Right Wokshipful the Mayor, SAMUEL AMESS, Esq., 

Qth November, 1869. 



Roederer's, Moet's, and Cliquot's 

Champagne. 

D.&Jl Squat Hock. 

Claret. 

Sherry. 

Porf. 

I8tU of Jare. 

POTAGES. 

Mock Turtle. 

White Oyster. 

Jardiniere. 

POISSONS. 

Murray Cod. 

Snapper. 

Fillet of Whiting. 

RELEVfe. 

Boiled Turkeys, Financier Sauce. Bailed Chickens, Celery Sauce. 

Roast Turkeys a 1' Alderman. Roast Quarters of Lamb. 

Hams Braised a la Gelie. ' Roast Goslings, Gooseberry Sauce. 

Roast Ducklings. Pigeon Pies. 

Roast Fowls. Saddles of Mutton. 

Tongues Garnis des Legumes, Roast Guinea Fowls. 

ENTRIES. 

Les Petites Psltes aux Huitres. CAtelettes d'Agneau aux Petits Pois. 

Les Karry de Volaille. Vol-au-Venl au Ris.de Veau aux Truffcs. 

Les Chartreuses des Legumes. Croquettes de Volaille en Surprise.  

Filets de Poulets a I'Ecarlate. CAtelettes de Mouton a la Reform. 

ENTREMETS. 

Cabinet Pudding. Creme au Chocolat. 

Gelee au Rhum. Crerae aux Fraises. 

Gelie au Citron. Creme a I'ltaliennc. 

Gelee k I'Orange. Jamonge. 

Gelee \ la Victoria. Grosses Meringues au Creme. 

Blanc Mange. Vol-au-Vent de Pommes. 

Les Nougats Fran9aises. Gateaux Napoleon. 

Croque-en-bouche. Puits d' Amour. 

Gateaux Genoise. Quadrilles k la Pnnces. 

Corbules a la Chantilly. Macaroni au Gratin; 

Canapfe en Pyramid. Pouding k la Nesselrode. 

Plum Pudding. Glaces. 
CrSmekla Vanille. 



CELEBRATED MENUS. 405. 

Dinner Qivkn by Sir NIorton Peto, 

 AT  

DELMONICO'S, OCTOBER 30, i86j. 



ilTcnu. 

HOITRES. 

Bar sac. 

POTAGES. 

Consommd Britannia. 
Puree k la Derby. 
X^res % 5., iSiS- 

ES. HORS d'cEUVRES. VARI^. 

Cassolettes de Foie-gras. 
Timbales k TEcarlate. 



Saumon k la Rothschild. 

Grenadins de Bass, New York. 

Steinberger Cabinet^ 

RELEViS. 

Chapons, truffes. 

Filet de Bceuf k la Durham, 

Cha-inpagne Napoleon*, 

ENTRIES. 

Faisans k la Londonderry. 

Cdtelettes d'Agneau, Primatice. 

Cromesquis de Volaille, Puree de Marrons. 

E^calops de Canards, en Bigaradc. 

RissoletC^ k la Pompadour. 

Turban de Pigeons k la Musulmane. 

Chdteau Latour. 

ENTRIES FROIDES. 

Volifere de Gibier. 

Ballotins d*Anguillcs en Bellevue, 

Chaudfroid de Robins k la Bohemienne. 

Buisson de Ris d'Agneau, Pascaline. 

Cdtes Rdties, 

SORBETS. 

A la Sir Morton Peto. 

ROTIS. 

Selle de chevreuil. Sauce Porto-Groseille. 
Becasses Bardees. 
Clos de Vougeoi. 

ENTREMETS. 

Choux de Bruxelles : Haricots Verts. 
Artichauts Farcis : Petits Pois. 

SUCRES. 

Pudding de Poires k la Madison. 

Tokai imp^riale . 

Louisiannais k PAnanas. 

Gelde de Frtiits. 

Pain d'Abricots k la Vanille. 

Moscovite Fouett^, Gelie k I'Indienne. 

Vacherin au Marasquin. 

Couglakoff aux Amandes. 

Mazarin aux PSches. Mousse k POrange. 

Caisses Jardinieres. G laces Assorties. 

Fruits et Desseit. 

Madere Faquart^ 

PIECES MONT^ES- 

Cascade Pyramidale. 

Corbeille Arabesque, 

Ruines de Pdestum : l.e Palmier. 

Troph^ Militaire: Corne d'Abondance. 

Nougat k la Parisienne. 



i4o6 



THE TABLE. 



COMPLIMENTARY BANQUET 

TO 

<1 GENERAL, IvATHAIV[,>o 

Late Consul for the United States of America, 

CRITERION HOTEL, i2th OCTOBER, 1869. 



WINES, 

Roederer's, Moet's, and Cliquot's 

Champagne. 

B. &J. Squat Hock. 

Claret. 

Sherry. 

Port. 

BUI of Jart. 

' SOUPS. 

Mock Turtle. White Oyster. 

Spring. 

FI5M. 

Snapper. Murray Cod. 

Fillet of Whiting. 

RELEV^. 

Boiled Turkeys, Oyster sauce. Roast Turkeys and. Sausages. 

Boiled Fowls and Celery sauce. Roast Fowls en Cresson, 

Roast Geese. Roast Ducks. 

Roast Saddles of Mutton. Roast Quarters of Lamb. 

Pigeon Pies. Raised Chicken Pics. 

Hams, Garnished. Tongues, Garnished. 

ENTREES. 

Ris de Veau a la Sultan. C6telettes d'Agneau au Petit Pons Vert, 

Cdtelettes de Mouton au Toniate. Vol-au-Vent &. la Ghevali^re. 

Filets de Poulet k la Royale." Turban de Quenelles de Volaille. 

Rissoles de Volaille k la Reform. Croquettes de Veau et Jambon. 

Petites Pit^s aux Huitres. Timbales de Macaroni a la Frincesse. 

Fricandeau de Veau, Sauce de Tomate. Filets de Poulet k TEcarlate. 

SECOND SERVICE. 

ENTREMETS. 

Cabinet Pudding. Macaroni au Gratin. 

Newmarket Pudding. Plum Pudding. 

Gel6e aux Fraises. Gelde k la Victoria. 

Gelee au Vin de Marasqmn. Gel^e a I'Orange. 

Puits d'Amour. Gelee Dantzic. 

Pommes Meringuees. Gkteaux Genoise. 

Gateaux Napoleon. Tartlets k la Crfime. 

Crfime k la Rose. Crfiftie k la Vanille. 

CrSme au Chocolat. CrSme k la Fleur d'Orange. 

Corbules k la Chantilly, Crfime aux Framboises. ^ 

Canapes en Pyramid. Tourtes en Caramel. 

Gateaux k la Rutland. Gateaux, Neapolitan. 
Custards. 
Dessert, etc., etc. 



CELEBRATED MENUS. 40 7 

o<] B A L L. I> 

NOVEMBER 6, 1863, AT THE ACADEMY OF MUS/0. 
RUSSIAN FLEET. 

Rear-Admiral Lessoffsky, Russian flag-ship Alexander Weoshy, 51 
guns. 

Capt. Kopytor, Russian screw frigate Peresvat, 48 guns. 
Capt. Bontakoff, Russian screw frigate Osliaba, 33 guns. 
Capt. Lund (or Lurd), Russian screw sloop Vitioz; 77 guns. 
Capt. Kremer, Russian screw sloop Variag, 17 guns. 



fttenu. 

HORS d'CEUVRES. 

Huitres ii la poulctte. Huitres en marinade. Bouchies de gibier. 

Canapes de filets d'ortolans. Snit-mitch i la Russe. 

GROSSES PIECES. 

Saumons au beurre de Montpelier. Truites k la Rigence. 

Mets de boeuf k la Mazarin. P4tte de canvas-back ducks. 

Galantine decochon de lait, garni de hatelets. Patis de gibier sur socles. 

Jambons de Westphalie a la modeme. Galantines de dmdes aux truffes. 

ENTRIES. 

Salades de volatile k U Russe. Canetons k la Rouennaise. 

C6telettcs de pigeons en Macedoine. Bordures d'escalopes d homards. 

Chaudfroid de filets de faisans. Aspics de filets de soles k la Victoria. 

Pain de gibier k la royale. Timbales k la renaisance. 

Terrines de nerac de pluviers. Bicassines k la Geoffrey. 

ROTIS. 

Cailles aux teuilles de vigne. Bicasses bardiSes. 

Faisans piqu&. Grouse. 

ENTREMETS, SUCRES, ET DESSERT, 

SavarinS au Marasquin. Biscuits Moscovitcs. 

Gkteaux de mille-feuiUes. Eabas glacis au rhum. 

Charlottes Sibiriennes. Charlotte, New York. 

Meringues panachees et VaniUees. 

Gelee macidome au vin de champagne. Pains d'abricots k la Beresina. 

Gelees Dantzic Orientales. Blanc manger rubane au chocolat. 

Gelees de poires k la marichale. Bavarois aux fraises. 

Gelees au madire. Biscuits glaces k la rose. 

Gateaux assortis. Petit-fours. Compotes. iTuits. 

PIECES MONTiES ET GLAC^. 

Pierre le Grand. Washington. 

Alexandre II. Lincoln. 

Le berceau des palmiers. La rotunde d' Athene. 

La fontaine modeme. L'ermitage Russe. 

L'arc de triomphe. Comes jumelles d'abondance. 

Sultane k la Parisienne. Le pavilion dea Aigles. 

L'aigle Amiricain. Le casque sur socle. Pouding Nesselrode. 

Lalionne. 

Columbus. Corbeille jardmiire. Les Dauphms. 

Diane. Madeleines. Mousses aux amandes. 

Bombesspongade. Ceylaus au caft. Vanille. Chocolat. 

Citrons et Fraises. 

etc. etc. etc. etc. 

Delmenicot 



4o8 



THE TABLE, 



DONN^ PAR 

MME. JAMES GORDON BENNETT, 

LE J DECEMBRE, iS6s, 



MAISOJH DOR^E. 

HuJtres crues sur CoquiUes. 

FOTAGES. 

Aux huttres, 
Consomm^ k la royale. 



POISSONS. 

Saumon a I'Impdriale. Truite kla R^gence. 

Croquettes de Pommes de terre. 

HORS d'CEUVRES. 

Petits p^t^s a la Parisienne. Salade d'anchois, olives, sardines, 

GROSSES PIECES FR0IDE5. 

Hure de sangller, sur socle a la St. Hubert, 

Chaudfroid de fojes de Canards de Strasbourg aux truffes. 

Perdreaux k la GeHe. 

Roast Beef k I'Anglaise. 

Jambons de Westphalie, omamentes. 

P^t^s de faisans d Ecosse en Beltevue. 

Longe de Boeuf k la Gelee . 

Sella de chevreuilet GeUe de Groseille. 

entr]6es. 

CoquiUes de Volaille k la Montglas. 

C6telettes d'agneau gamies de pommes. 

Asperges. 

Boudins k la Richelieu aux truffes. 

Brochettes de foies de volaille kl'Anglaise. 

Petits pois. 

Punch k la Romaine. 

ROTIS. 

Canvds-back Ducks. 

Chapons, TrufFes. 

Croi^te aux champignons nouveaux. 

Mayonnaise de Volaille k la Nojoise. 

Dindes farcies au cresson, 

Cailles bardees au cresson. 

Choux de Bruxelles. 

Mayonnaise d'Homards k la Nelson. 

Buissons d'Ecrevisses. 

PIl^CES MONTIES ET ENTREMETS. 

Le Temple de laPaix. 

Gstteau Napolitain sur socle. 

Nougats k la Parisienne . 

Corbeilles de Meringues k la Chantilly 

Geldes d'orange k I'Orientale. 

Macedoine de fruits. 

Creme renversee k la vanille. 

G4teau Chateaubriand sur socle. 

 Croque-en-boucheG^noise. 

Charlottes Russes, a la modeme. 

Blanc Manger, Rubane. 

Mousses aux frambroises. 

Ladies* Kisses. 

Petits fours et Coniiserie assortie. 

GLACES. 

" L'aigle Americain,"sur socle. 
"Pudding," k la Nesselrode. 
" CorbeiUe " de fruits a la Napohtaine. 
" Biscuits," glacis a la vanille. 

FRUITS. 

Raisins. Oranges. Pommes. 

Compote de Pommes k la Portugaise. 

 Poires. 



CELEBRATED MENUS. 



40q 



ORANGE BOVEN. 



ANNIVERSARY DINNER 

OF THE 

ST. NICHOLAS SOCIETY, 

AT THE 

kSTQR HOUSE, DECEMBER B, 1862. 



Green Turtle. 



Macaroni with Cheese. 



Baked Cod, Italian style. Boiled Striped Bass, Hollandaise sauce. 

RKLEViS. 

ROAST. BOILKD. 

Turkeys, Giblet sauce. Partridges, with Sour Krout. 

Capons, Truffle sauce. Leg of Mutton, Uutch Style. 

Ham, Cherry-wine sauce. Leg of Pork, with Cabbage. 

Beef, with Croquettes of Potatoes. Turkey, with Oystera. 

Venison, with Currant Jelly. Leg of Veal with Mushrooms. 

Chicken Pot-pie, Farmer's style. 



Olives. 



Pickles. 



Anchovies. 



Sardines. 



SIDE DISHES. 



Broiled Quails with Green Peas. Legs of Chickens, in form of birds, Soubise sauce , 

Lamb Chops with Mashed Potatoes. Curry of Veal, Indian mode. 

Fillet of Veal, larded, Gardiner's sauce. Small Cakes of Fish with Oysters. 

Preastof Chicken a la Conde. Fricassee of Chicken, Cbevalier style. 
Vol-au-Vent, garnished with Veal and Celery. C6telettes of Halibut, German style. 

Oysters Baked in the Shell. Mayonnaise of Lobster. 

Chartreuse of Game, Madeira sauce. Turkish Pillau. 

COLD ORNAMENTAL DISHES. 

American Pate-de-Foie-Gras with Truffles. Cheese, made of Veal in Jelly on a Socle, 
Bastion made of Fish, with Holland colors. Stuffed Chickens in form of a Fountain. 
Boned Turkey with Jelly. 

VEGETABLES. 

Plain Boiled Potatoes, Onions, Baked Mashed Potatoes, 

Cauliflower. Turnips. Baked Sweet Potatoes. 

Potatoes Fried, German style. Parsnip"!. 

SMALL PLATES. 

Fried Oysters, 

GAME. 

Wild Goose. 
Wild Turkey. 
Wild Rabbits. 

KNICKERBOCKER DISHES. 

Smoked Goose. 

Spack and Applejes. 

Krullers. 

Doughnuts and Oly Kooks. 

PASTRY. 



Croquettes of Rice, 

Roast Canvas-back Ducks, 
Ked-head Ducks. 
Brant. 



Rolletjies. 
Smoked Sausages. 
Head Cheese. 
Kookies. 



Mince Pie. 
Blanc Mange. 



Visit of Santa Claus. 
Ktuyvesant and his Dwelling. 
Washington Monument. 

Macaroons. 
Almond Cakes. 



Charlotte Russe. 

Rum Jelly. 

Poor Man's Pudding. 

ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONERY, 



Swiss Meringues. 
Apple Pie. 



City Hall of New Amsterdam. 
Knickerbocker Comfort. 
Holland Pavilion. 

Lady- fingers. 
Kisses. 



Brandy Peaches. 
Schnaps and Pipes. 



Vanilla Ice-cream. 

PRESERVES. 

Ginger. 

FRUIT. 



Coffee. 



Anchovy Tbast. 



Chow- Chow. 
St. Nicholas Punch. 



CURIOUS MENUS 

OF 

VARIOUS NATIONS. 



CURIOUS MENUS OF VARIOUS NATIONS. 413 

^ ]V[ K N U ^ 

FROM 

Central Africa. 



Through the courtesy of a gentleman who has for many years lived 
in Central Africa, and who has brought with him a young prince, son of 
one of the powerful chiefs of the Baaili tribe, to be educated in this 
country, the author is enabled to illustrate the habits and customs now in 
vogue in the Royal Kitchen there. 

As a rule, there is only one principal meal, which is eaten in the early 
part of the evening. It mostly consists of parrot-soup, roasted or stewed 
monkeys, alligator eggs (also well liked by Europeans) , and birds of every 
description. They also have moambo or palm-chops, and fish. A great 
delicacy, so considered by Europeans and natives alike, is elephant's 
feet and trunk. They have somewhat the taste of veal, and have a very 
delicious flavor. To prepare them they dig a hole, about five feet deep, 
in the sand, and build in it a large fire. After the sand is thoroughly 
heated, the fire is removed, leaving only the ashes in the hole. They 
place the trunk and feet in this hole, covering them with leaves, and 
afterward with hot sand; they remain there about two hours, when they 
are considered done. 

All carcasses of animals which are to be cooked, are placed on a block 
of wood, and pounded until every bone is broken, care being taken not to 
tear or bruise the skin. They are then boiled or roasted on an open wood- 
fire, in hot sand or ashes, without removing the hide or feathers. 

The cooking is of a very inferior grade; the only spices used being 
salt and pepper. 

The kitchen utensils consist of common earthen or wooden ware. 

Very little time is taken for setting or decorating the table; knives, 
forks, napkins, &c., &c., are dispensed with. 

All victuals are served in large wooden vessels. After the members of 
the chief's household and his guests have assembled, each person is sup- 
plied with a wooden spoon, and selects whatever he wishes out of the 
different vessels, using his hands in eating it. 

In the line of vegetables, they have also several dishes well liked by 
Europeans. N'gutti-N'sengo is a dish eaten all over Africa. It consists 
of egg-plant, small fish, somewhat like our sardines (N'sengo), and the 
roots of the cassava or manioca plant (called N'gutti), which have a 
knotty appearance, and often weigh as much as twenty pounds. 

As the latter contains poison, they soak the manioca in water for three 
to four days, to extract the poisonous substance. They are cut and 



414 ^-^-^ TABLE. 



sliced, adding small tomatoes. All is placed in a vessel with water, and 
seasoned with salt and pepper, and boiled. Moambo, or, as the European* 
call it, palm-chops, is also a favorite dish. The palm-nuts are first boiled 
in water, until the pulpy substance loosens from the pit. 

Then the shell, which contains a very delicious oil, is placed in a 
wooden mortar and crushed to obtain the oil. Then whatever the meal 
consists of, meat, fish, inussels, &c., all is put in a vessel, adding the oil 
and the pulpy part of the palm-nut, also red pepper and salt, and is boiled. 

Roast or boiled squash (Loenge) is generally eaten with it. 

Sweet potatoes (M'balla Benga) are more farinaceous, and sweeter than 
ours, but do not taste so good. They are boiled or roagted in the same 
way as we do here. 

.Bananas (Bitaebe) weigh about a half pound each, and are about fifteen 
inches long. When half ripe they are cut in slices, adding much salt and 
pepper, and are boiled in water. 

N'sensi is a little red bean, which is boiled in water without adding salt 
or pepper. 

Peanut bread (Chisulu): the peanuts are first roasted, then crushed. 
This mass is then rolled and put into the skin of a banana, adding a little 
pressure, forming it into a body. It readily retains this shape from the 
presence of the oily substance in the peanut. 



j^ongkong iUcnu, 
ffillma. 

Bow Ha Mai. 
Boiled Prawns in Oil. 

' Chow Chop Sucy. 
Bits of Pork Chops. 

Ham ob Dau. 
Preserved Eggs with Ducks' Gizzards. 

Ob Gau Bow Vo Toway. 
Ducks* Livers and Boiled Ham. 

Chow Ju Aw. 
Boiled Pork, Kidneyed. 

Show Ju N Gow. 
l^oast Pork-tongues. 

Bow N Gwei. 
Cuttle Fish. 

' Yen Wo' Gong. 
Boiled Pigeon Eggs and Bird-nest Soup. 



CURIOUS MENUS OF VARIOUS NATIONS. 41 



Bow Hai. 
BoUed Crabs. 

Bow Yu Chee. 
Boiled Shark Fins. 

Yuen Tsyai. 
Rice Cakes. 

Bow Ob. 
Duck-tongues and Mushrooms. 

Ju Tow N Gow. 
Fried Roofs-of-the-Mouths of Pigs, 

Chow Ob Jun. 
Ducks' Feet. 

Chow Gai Pien. 
Fried Chicken Wings. 

Lein Chi Gong. 
Lily-seed Soup. 

Hong Yin Gong. 

Almond Soup. 

Dein Som. 
Sweetmeats and Jellies. 

Yueh Biung. 
Mincemeat Cakes. 

Gwoy Zoo. 
f Fruits. 

Kwoh Zuh. 

Seeds. 

Cha Sam Soo. 
. Tea, and Rice Whiskey. 

As to the Chinese, at their formal dinners or feasts no menus are 
used. The bill of fare consists of an interminable list of dishes, and 
which has been arranged by the author in the form of a menu card. The 
tables are laden with such dishes as shark-fins, beche-de-mer fish, fish- 
soup, chicken-soup, duck-soup, rice, rice, rice, and tea, tea, tea, and tea ; 
not forgetting the edible birds' nests, candies, and cakes. One's appetite 
is almost taken away on entering a Chinese house at which a banquet is 
to be given the effect of burning incense and other vile herbs. The 
Chinese can be extremely polite. Champagne is a favorite drink among 
Chinese officials at the Treaty Ports, and is always brought out when 
they have a foreign guest. 



^t6 


THE TABLE. 






 


^okol)ama illcnu. 








Ja|3an. 








Cha, 
Tea, 






Luimano. 
Fish Soup. 


' Shim, 

1 Bean Soup.  


Ohira.' 
Vegetable Soup, 


' 


Sashimi, 
Raw Sliced Fish, 


Nizakana, 
Boiled Fish. 

Shiwoyaki. 
Roasted Fish. 

Muchitori. 
Boiled Vegetables 

Umani. 
Fish and Vegetables. 

Trubonomoni. 

Vegetables. 

Gozen. 
Boiled Rice. 

Tsukemono. 
Pickles. 

Shoyu. 
Sauce. 

Saki, 
Rice Whiskey, 

Cha, 
Tea. 


Teriyaki. 
Roast Fish, 





A most delicious sauce, called " Shoyu,'' which is the basis of Wor- 
cestershire sauce, is also used to give spice to the food. Throughout 
the repast the guests are served from time to time with " Saki," a pale 
liquor made from rice, and which tastes very much like sherry. It is 
served hot, and is a most insinuating tipple. In a large party you are 
expected to exchange cups and drink with every one present. The result 
is that, in nine cases out of ten, you leave the house just a " wee bit fu'," 
as they say in Scotland, Like the Chinese, no knives, forks, or napkins 
are used  " chop sticks " only. To smack your lips or belch during the 
feast is, strjatnge tp^ay of such a supremely polite people, not considered 
bad form. 



CURIOUS MENUS OF VARIOUS NATIONS. 417 



dovea ilTenu. 

Cha. 
Tea. 

Fou Yoon An. 
Finely Chopped Ham, with Eggs. 

Whey Sum. 

Bamboo Shoots, with Mushrooms and Bche-de-mer Fish. 

1 

Chow Kai Goot. 
Dice-shaped Spring Chicken-bones, Served in Sweetmeat Pickles. 

Chow Lok Zeow. 
Finely Sliced Green Peppeis, Fried with Cut Beef and Celery. 

Gow Jee. 
Finely Chopped, Spiced Fork, Wrapped in Thin Dough, then Steamed. 

Chow Mien. 
A Kind of Boiled Macaroni, Fried with Thin Strips of Chicken, Pork, Mushrooms, and Celery. 

Bing Lon. 
Betel-nuts Preserved in Rock Candy. 

Cha. 

Tea. 

Sam Soo. 
Rice Liquor. 

In Corea Chinese fashions are very closely followed. Greasy messes 
and appetite-destroying smells are their most characteristic features. 
The food is always conveyed to the mouth by the aid of " chop sticks," 
and during the progress of a meal the mind becomes catered to by an 
animated conversation. 



Kanoka lUEittt. 
^aaatian JJalanba. 

FISH. 

Raw Mullet. Raw Gold-fish. Shell Fish. 

Broiled Taro. 

POI. 

Chili Peppers. 
Small Onions. 

ENTRIES, 

Raw Liver. Roast Pig. 

Roast Fish. Stewed Tare. 



4l8 THE TABLE. 





VEGETABLES. 


 


Papaias. 


Cabbage. 
Sweet Potatoes. 

FROIT. 


Taro. 


Bananas. 


Oranges. 


Guavas. 


Mang^oes. 


Apples, 
Kono Coffee. 

LIQUOR. 

Ookulian (pronounced O-ku-Ie-on) 
Hawaiian Pipe of Friendship. 


Hawaiian Tea. 



Among the Kanakas, the food eaten for breakfast, luncheon, and dinner 
is about the same, and consists chiefly of the native dish called " POI," 
which is eaten whenever they (the Kanakas) are hungry. 

"POI "'is made from a root called " Taro,'' and in shape and size 
resembles a raw beet, it has a dark skin, and the vegetable itself has a 
variety of colors  pink, gray, purple, and white. 

The "Taro " is cooked in t:he ground, after the manner of a " New 
England clam-bake ;" after obtaining the softness of a cooked potato it is 
peeled, and beaten with a large stone or iron, made for that purpose, into 
a pulp. It is then mixed with water until it forms the thickness of paste 
(and which makes very good paste, as it is often used for sticking bills, 
etc., when a theatrical company arrives), and after standing for a. ievf 
days, to allow it to ferment, it is ready to be eaten. 

The "Poi" is always eaten out of a "Calabash" (a large gourd 
about the size of a pumpkin), the natives always eating with their fingers, 
this being done by sticking the two fore-fingers into the " Calabash," 
giving it one or two twists, and dexterously turning it around in front of 
their faces, until it looks like a ball of "taffy on a stick" (no pun 
intended). 

"Taro" is sometimes cooked and eaten like potatoes and is consid- 
ered very wholesome^food. 

The next important dish is "Raw Fish" which are caught along the 
coast and eagerly eaten by the natives. Fish is also cooked in the 
ground, and' is served on large leaves about the size of palm-leaves, 
called " Ti " leaves. Raw meat, raw liver, and a fragrant sea-weed form 
delicate side-dishes. 

Coffee, within the last few years, has to a great extent been drunk as 
a beverage, but not so much as the Hawaiian tea, which tastes and smells 
like medicine. 

Vegetables are also eaten, but sparingly, comprising sweet potatoes, 
Irish potatoes, cabbages, etc. ' 

Fruit, the product of the Islands, is very much eaten and relished, 
such as guavas, mangoes, bananas, mountain-apples, oranges, etc. 

The Hawaiians when eating always sit on mats. All eat out of the 
same calabash. After eating, it is the custom to pass the pipe of friend- 
ship, which is a small pipe made from shark's teeth. 



INDEX 



BKKK. 



484, 


Braised k la Bignon. 


494, 


Steak, duchesse. 


483. 


en daube. 


497, 


green peppers. 


482. 


k la flamande. 


493, 


k la moelle. 


479. 


k la mode. 


495, 


k la parisienne. 


478, 


k la morlaisienne. 


488, 


pie k I'amfiricaine. 


481, 


k rOrsini. 


487, 


pie k I'anglaise. 


480. 


k la Providence. 


541, 


Stewed beef, Dufour. 


485. 


Russian sauce. 


540, 


k I'^gyptienne. 


490. 


Corned, with kale-sprouts. 


543, 


k la marseillaise. 


489. 


and spinach. 


542. 


k la turque. 


531. 


hash en bordure. 


503, 


Tenderloin of beef, broiled. 


529. 


au gratin. 


504, 


k la ch6ron. 


528. 


k la polonaise. 


506, 


k la florentine. 


530, 


k la zingara. 


508, 


aux gourmets. 


1359. 


Hamburg steak, raw. 


505, 


k la nivernaise. 


526, 


Russian sauce. 


1388, 


k la Stanton. 


5P2, 


Minced beef k la Catalan. 


507, 


k la Trianon. 


501. 


k la portugaise. 


523, 


piqut k la Bernardi. 


500; 


k la proven5ale. 


516, 


k la duchesse. 


512, 


Mignons filets k la Bernardi. 


521, 


k I'fegyptienne. 


513. 


k la boh6mienne. 


519, 


k la Hussard. 


1389. 


k la Brown. 


517, 


k la portugaise. 


1364, 


k la Lorillard. 


518, 


k la proven9ale. 


511. 


marinated, Russian sauce. 


522, 


k la Richelieu. 


510, 


k la moelle. 


520, 


k la Sfevigne. 


514, 


k la parisienne. 


532, 


Tongue of beef k la gendarme 


515, 


aux pommes parisienne. 


535. 


a la jardinifere. 


509,- 


k la Pompadour. 


538, 


milanaise. 


527. 


Roast. 


534, 


napolitaine. 


539, 


Roulade k I'fecarlate. 


537, 


with risotto. 


498. 


Sirloin piqufe, k la bordelaise. 


533, 


sauce piquante. 


499, 


marrow sauce. 


536, 


with spinach. 


486, 


Smoked beef k la creme. 


544. 


Tripe k la bordelaise. 


524, 


Steak, porterhouse. 


545. 


k la cr6ole. 


525, 


" double. 


548. 


k la lyonnaise. 


492, 


sirloin, k la bSarnaise. 


547. 


k la mode de Caen. 


491, 


k la bordelaise. 


546. 


k la poulette. 


496, 


aux cSpes. 







COFFEE, CHOCOLATE, AND TEA. 



1263, Coffee, essence. 

1348, how to roast. 

1349, how to make. 

1350, Caf6 noir k I'Alexander 

Great. 

1351, Caf6, au lait. 

1352, au lait k la St. Gottardo, 

1353, glac6. 



the 



1354, Tea. 

1355, ^ 1^ Russe. 

1356, Chocolate. 

1357, au lait k la George Wash- 

ington. 
1391, Mazagran aiaG6n6ral Bugeau. 
1292, kla. G6n6ral Dufour. 



419 



420 



INDEX. 



DKSSERXS 



PASTRY, 



1207, Almonds, how to prepare 
1169, Apples, with rice. 



JELLIES, ICES, PRESERVES, ETC. 

1 1 84, Cakes, wheat. 

1167, Charlotte, apple. 

1262, au caffe. 

1 261, 

1168, 

1080, 

1200, 



1124, baked. 

1190, Batter, for fritters. 

II 85, for frying. 

1270, Blanc-manger S, la Josephine 

Delmonico. 
1205, Cakes, allumettes. 

1224, almond. 
1239, " fancy. 

1208, " glacis. 

1211, apple. 

1216, baba. 

1217, " au madfere. 

1218, " creme vanille. 

1235, biscuits, almond. 
1234, " ambroisienne. 

1231, " cuillfere. 
1233, " livornaise. 

1232, " Richelieu. 

1201, brioches. 

1203,  " 3, la Cond6. 

1204, " fluttes, 

1202, " small. 
II 83, buckwheat. 

1236, chaussoris. 
1246, choux a, la crfeme. 

1221, galette. 

1213, gingerbread. 
1220, home-made. 
1231, lady-fingers. 

1209, macaroons, bitter. 

1210, " sweet. 

1226, madeleine.  

1227, " printanifere. 

1228, Milan. 

1223, mille-feuilles. 

1238, petites bouch^es' a la Mme. 
Astor. 

1237, petites bouchfeesdes dames. 

1225, pithiviers. 

1 1 93, pound. " 

1222, rice. 

1230,1 rice & la Mazzini. 

I22g, rum. 

1197, savarin. 

1 199, " a I'anglaise. 

1198, ' " hot. 
1215, short, blackberry. 

1214, " strawberry. 

1212, St. Honorfe ^ la Rose Del- 

monico. 

1195, sponge. 

1196, waffles. 

1194, wedding. 



russe. 

small. 
Currants, cleaning. 
Cream S. I'anglaise. 
IZ58, au cognac. 

1259, ^" curagoa. 

1256, au kirsch. 

1257, ^'^ maraschino. 

1260, en mousse. 

1253, " " au caf6. 
1255, " " au rhum. 

1242, pS.tjissire. 
1252, renversfee. 

1254, whipped S. la vanille. 
1176, Croustade of rice. 

1313, Cup, champagne. 

1314, claret. 

II22, Dumplings, baked apple. 
1127, boiled applfe. 
1126, boiled apricot. 
1125, boiled peach. 
1241, Eclairs, 

1244, au cafS. 

1243, au chocolat. 

1245, vanilla. 

1 191, Fritters, apple. 

1192, vanilla. 
1269, glace, royale. 

1206, " " for allumettes. 

1277, Ice-cream, banana. 

1286, biscuits glacfes. 

1287, biscuits Tortoni. 

1299, charlottes glacfees. 

1300, charlottes panach6es. 

1272, chocolate. 

1273,  coffee. 

1278, . lemon. 
i2go, macaroon. 

1298, macSdoine & la Cavour. 

1301, meringues glac^es. 

1302, meringues panachfies. 
1292, napolitaine. 

1295, parfait au caffe. 
1276, peach. 
1275, pistache. 
1370, plombiSi* \ la Hamilton. 
1294, " ^ la Kingman. 

1291, pudding a. la Frances Cleve- 
land. 

1288, pudding a. la diplomate. 

1289, plum pudding k la Glad- 
. ston;. 





INDEX. 


421 


1274. 


Ice-cream, strawberry. 


1085, 


Pies, rhubarb. 


I37I. 


tutti-frutti i. la General 


1095, 


strawberry. 




Harrison. 


1342. 


Preserves, apples. 


1293. 


tutti-frutti. 


1387. 


" 


I27I, 


vanilla. 


1381. 


blackberries and whortle- 


1327. 


Jelly, apple. 




berries. 


I32I, 


brandy. 


1347. 


cherries. 


1322, 


champagne. 


1377. 


'* 


1326, 


currant. 


1344. 


green-gages. 


1379. 


'* 


1378. 


gooseberries. 


I3I9. 


kirsch. 


1340, 


peaches. 


1323. 


kUmmel. 


1385, 


* 


1325. 


Marcella wine ^ la Castel- 


1 341. 


pears. 




lar. 


1385. 


" 


1324. 


Rhein wine. 


1374. 


pineapples. 


I320, 


Jamaica rum. 


1343. 


egg-plums. 


1318, 


sherry wine. 


1383- 


" 


1247. 


Meringues. 


1380, 


raspberries. 


1248, 


apple. 


1346, 


" 


1249, 


a la Ch. C. Delmonico. 


1376, 


rhubarb. 


I25I, 


i l!helv6tienne. 


134s. 


strawberries. 


I250, 


shells. 


1373. 


" 


1266, 


Nougat. 


1152, 


Puddings, apple 4 1'helvfetienne 


1267, 


pyramid. 


1151. 


apricot a la Richelieu. 


Il82, 


Nouilles or noodles. 


1132, 


bread. 


1297, 


Oranges glac6es ^ la Geo. Re- 


1 164, 


cabinet h. la Sadi-Carnot. 




nauldt. 


1166, 


caramel. 


1 1 86, 


Pancake, French. 


1 146, 


chocolate. 


1187 


" a, la gel6e. 


1147. 


cocoanut. 


1188, 


German. 


1154. 


custard. 


1 1 89, 


" with apples. 


1135. 


Diaz. 


1076, 


Paste, feuilletage or puff. 


1 1 29, 


diplomatic. 


1078, 


foundation. 


1137. 


English, baked. 


1077. 


for pies. 


"44. 


farina. 


1079, 


Pastry-bag. 


"39. 


prench & la Delmonico. 


1240, 


Pate-i-chou. 


1161, 


fruit. 


1331. 


Peach marmalade. 


"59. 


a la U. S. Grant. 


1083, 


Pies, apple. 


"45. 


Indian. 


1103, 


apple meringue. 


"57. 


lemon. 


1097, 


blackberry. 


"34. 


maraschino. 


1098, 


cherry. 


"55, 


N'elson. 


IIOI, 


cocoanut. 


"58, 


orange. 


1 104, 


cranberry. 


"50, 


peach ^ la Richelieu. 


1090, 


fresh currants.'' 


1148, 


pineapple k la Richelieu. 


IIOO, 


custard. 


"63, 


plum. 


logi, 


gooseberry. 


"43. 


rice. 


1093, 


green-gage. 


"3. 


rice and orange. 


1089, 


huckleberry. 


1 140, 


sago. 


1086, 


lemon. 


1141, 


tapioca. 


II02, 


lemon cream. 


1142, 


vermicelli. 


II05, 


Martha Washington. 


1306, 


Punch h la Cardinal. 


1082, 


mince. 


1307, 


champagne. 


1092, 


peach. 


1312, 


4 la Czarina, hot. 


1084, 


pear. 


1303. 


a la Lorenzo Delmonico. 


1088, 


pear, open. 


1310, 


k la franfaise, hot. 


1087, 


pineapple. 


13". 


a, la, fran9aise, iced. 


1094, 


plum. 


1305. 


kirsch. 


1099, 


pumpkin. 


1308, 


k la Lalla Rookh. 


1096, 


raspberry. 


1304, 


Roman. 



422 



INDEX. 



1309. 


Punch, en surprise. 


1337. 


Stewed plums. 


1 1 70, 


Rice au lait d'amandes. 


1330. 


prunes a la Dufour. 


II7I, 


i I'Airolo. 


1338, 


quinces. 


II72, 


i la bonne femme. 


1265, 


Sugar, burned. 


Ii8l, 


a la Cond6. 


1264, 


' ' cooked. 


1296, 


a. la Croce. 


1339. 


Syrups for preserving fruits. 


1173, 


a la Czar. 


1 1 20, 


Tarts, apple. 


1 1 80, 


i la f rangaise. 


1 108, 


apricot. * 


"79. 


3. I'indienne. 


1119, 


b ackberry. 


1177. 


with milk. 


iiii, 


cherry. 


1175. 


timbale, iced, 
a la Turqfle. 


1116, 


cranberry. 


1178, 


1121, 


Frangipani. 


1081, 


Raisins, cleaning. 


1 107, 


green-gages. 


1131, 


Sauce, anglaise a I'orange. 


1 1 14, 


gooseberry and currant. 


1328, 


apple. 


i"3. 


huckleberry. 


1128, 


apricot. 


1 106, 


peach. 


1165, 


a la Carnot. 


1 109, 


pear. 


"53, 


Chaufausen. 


"15. 


pineapple. 


1329. 


cranberry. 


mo, 


plum. 


"33. 


cream. 


1118, 


raspberry. 


i2ig, 


cream a la vanille. 


III2, 


rhubarb. 


1156, 


Daniel Webster. 


III7, 


strawberry. 


"36. 


Diaz. 


"74. 


Turban of apples. 


1 160, 


U. S. Grant. 


1285, 


Water-ice, apricot. 


"23, 


hard. 


1282, 


cherry. 


"49. 


kirsch. 


1279, 


lemon. 


Ii2g, 


punch. 


1280, 


orange. 


1162, 


rum. 


1284, 


peach. 


"38, 


sabayon au mad^re. 


1283, 


pineapple. 


1332, 


Stewed apples. 


1281, 


raspberry. 


1335. 


apricots. 


1316. 


Water-melon, k la Jos6 Paez. 


1336, 


green-gages. 


1315. 


a la Romero. 


1334. 


peaches. 


1317. 


4 la Seward. 


1333. 


pears. 








EO 


GS 


> . 


443. 


Eggs a. I'alsacienne. 


1366, 


Eggs a la post. 


444. 


a I'aurore. 


436. 


en panade. 


416, 


k la bechamel. 


431, 


\ au parmesan. 


447. 


a, la Bennett. 


417. 


a la pauvre femme. 


432, 


a la bonne femme. 


433. 


k la paysanne. 


4". 


a la bourguignonne. 


445. 


k la polonaise. 


414. 


brown butter. 


422, 


k la proven9ale. 


427. 


with celery. 


434. 


a la rfegence. 


442. 


a, la chipolata. 


438, 


k la reine. 


449. 


duchesse. 


446. 


Rpbert sauce. j 


423. 


en filets. 


429, 


with tarragon. 


424. 


a la finoise. 


419. 


k la tripe. 


418, 


au gratin. 


428, 


with truffles. 


448. 


a la Hyde. 


439. 


k la turque. 


440. 


a. I'impferatrice. 


41S. 


au solei . 


430. 


with livers. 


441. 


k la Suisse. 


410, 


a la Livingstone. 


420, 


k la Vanderbilt. 


435. 


with melted cheese. 


421, 


k la valencienne. 


437. 


^ la Meyerbeer. 


412, 


fried. 


425, 


au miroir. 


413. 


for garnishing. 


426, 


with mushrooms. 


458, 


Omelet, asparagus-tops. 



INDj:X. 



423 



466, 


Omelet k la bonne femme. 


467. 


Omelet, raspail. 


477. 


c^lestine. 


470, 


rfegence. 


460, 


with cSpes, 


476. 


rum. 


469. 


cheese. 


468, 


sardine. 


464, 


chicken liver. 


465. 


sausage. 


455. 


crab. 


461, 


smoked beef. 


453. 


crawfish. 


474. 


soufflfee. 


472. 


4. 1'espagnole. 


475. 


sweet. 


451. 


with fine herbs. 


456, 


tomato. 


459. 


with green peas. 


457. 


tomato a, la provengale. 


462, 


ham. 


471. 


a la Vaiiderbilt. 


463. 


kidney. 


404. 


Poached eggg. 


476. 


au kirsch. 


405. 


Scrambled eggs. 


454. 


lobster. 


406, 


asparagus-tops. 


473. 


mexicaine. 


409. 


a. la chicor^e. 


452. 


oyster. 


408, 


smoked beef. 


450. 


plain. 


407. 


truffles. 




KI^ 


5H 


 


341. 


Bass a la bordelaise. 


309. 


Halibut, boiled. 


343. 


& la chambord. 


310. 


steaks, mattre d'hfitel. 


342, 


with white wine. 


357. 


Lobster a I'amfericaine. 


336. 


Bluefish k I'icarienne. 


360. 


a la bordelaise. 


337. 


^ I'italienne. 


361, 


en brochette au petit sal6. 


338. 


^ la vfenitienne. 


364. 


broiled. 


340, 


Bouille-4-baisse ^ la marseil- 


363. 


broiled, ravigote sauce. 




laise. 


362, 


en chevreuse. 


301, 


Breaded fish; how to prepare. 


365. 


croquettes. 


391. 


Canap6 Lorenzo. 


366, 


cutlets, Victoria. 


377. 


Clams a, la marinifere. 


358. 


au curry. 


300. 


how to serve. 


359. 


a la Newburg. 


376, 


stuffed. 


1358, 


a la Rushmore. 


389. 


soft shelled a, la Merrill, 


367. 


stuffed. 


390. 


" " a. la Newburg. 


329. 


Mackerel, broiled, maitre 


352, 


Codfish, boiled, oyster sauce. 




d'hStel. 


345. 


bonne femme. 


331. 


aux fines herbes. 


346. 


pjcked-up. 


330. 


en papillotes. 


349. 


tongues, beurre noir. 


378, 


Mussels a la marinifere. 


350, 


fried. 


379. 


a la poulette. 


348, 


" how to blanch. 


388, 


Oysters a la Baltimore. 


351. 


*" a la poulette. 


385, 


en brochette au petit sal6. 


373. 


Crabs k I'anglaise. 


382, 


btt)iled. 


370, 


deviled. 


299. 


a I'Alexandre Dumas. 


371. 


a la St. Jean. 


380, 


fried. 


372, 


a, la St. Laurent. 


386, 


a la mali. 


369. 


soft-shelled, broiled. 


384, 


a la Pompadour. 


368, 


' " fried. 


383, 


a la poulette. 


332, 


Eels, en matelote. 


298, 


how to serve. 


334. 


" normande. 


381, 


a la Villeroi. 


333. 


" 4. la parisienne. 


1367, 


a la Arthur Sullivan. 


335. 


how to blanch. 


375. 


Oyster-crabs fried. 


347. 


Fish balls. 


374. 


a la poulette. 


347. 


a, la Mrs. Harrison. 


387. 


Oyster patties. 


398, 


Frogs, broiled. 


304. 


Salmon, Colbert. , 


401, 


4 I'espagnole. 


364. 


croquettes. 


400, 


fried. 


306, 


a la g^noise. 


399. 


i, la poulette. 


303, 


oyster sauca. 



424 


INDEX. 

 




302. 


Salmon, en papillotes. 


394. 


Snails a I'italienne. 


305. 


a la rfigence. 


395. 


k la proven9ale. 


307. 


rolled a, rirlaridaise. 


324. 


Sole,, di6ppoise. :' 


3o8, 


tails, broiled. 


322, 


fillets, Jcinville. 


344. 


Salt Cod a la biscaSnne. 


323. 


fine herbs. 


403. 


Sardines on toast. 


320. 


fried, sauce Colbert. 


392, 


Scallops, brestoise. 


319. 


au gratin. 


326. 


Shad, maltre d'h6tel. 


317. 


^ I'hollandaise. 


327. 


with sorrel. 


321. 


a, la Horly. 


328, 


vert-pr6. 


318, 


normande. 


402, 


roe, with, bacon. 


396, 


Terrapin k la Baltimore, 


339. 


Sheep's-head ^ la crtole. 


397. 


k la Maryland. 


325. 


Skate au naturel. 


397. 


k la Newburg. 


353. 


Smelts k la bfearnaise. 


312, 


Trout a la Cambacferes. 


356. 


au gratin. 


313. 


k la Chambord. 


355. 


stuffed. 


315. 


with fine herbs. 


354. 


^ la toulouse. 


314. 


maitre d'h6tel. 


1393. 


h. la Van Volkenburgh. 


316. 


en papillotes. 


393. 


Snails i la bourguignonne. 


3". 


shrimp sauce. 



KO RC K iVL K ATS . 



229, Forcemeat, American. 



226, 


chicken, 


225, 


chicken a la crSme 


324, 


clam. 


223, 


crab. 


221, 


godiveau. 



222, Forcemeat, lobster. 
228, partridge. 
227, quenelles of fish. 
220, sausage. 
218, Fumet of game. 
1372, Frogs' legs k la Merrill. 



QAMK. 



8gi, Antelope chops, port-wine 

sauce. 
8go, steak, Russian sauce. 

832, Canapes for roast game. 
875, Canvas-back ducks broiled. 
874, roasted. 

833, Croquettes a la P6rigueux. 

839, Doe-birds, broiled. 

841, roasted k I'africaine. 

840, k I'amfericaine. 
838, plain, 

842,  salmi k la gastronome. > 
1369, Game pie k la Levi P. Morton. 

894, Gibelotte of hare. 

854, Grouse, broiled with bacon. 
1390, k la Pomeroy. 

852, , roasted, plain. 

853, k la Sam Ward. 

855, salmi k la parisienne. 

856, a la Walter Scott. 

857, k la florentin, 

858, supreme k la Richelieu, 

895, Hare fillets, poivrade sauce. 
893, civet k la fran^ise. 

892, roasted plain. 
845, Partridge, braised with cab- 
bage. 



847, Partridge, braised with celery 

satice. 
844, broiled k I'amfericaine. 
843, roasted, bread sauce. 

849, chartreuse of. 

848, saute k la chasseur. 
846, k la financiSre. 
851, supreme k la Godard. 

850, Pferigueux. 

866, Plovers, broiled. 
865, roasted plain. ^ 

867, salmi, maison d'or. 

863, Ptgirmigan, broiled. 
862, roasted plain. 

864, salmi k la chasseur. 

836, Quails, braised, celery sauce. 
835, broiled with bacon. 

837, k la financifere. 
834, roasted plain. 

876, Red-head ducks, broiled. 

876, roasted plain. 

877, Reed-birds. 

869, Snipe, broiled. 

868, roasted plain. 

870, salmi k la moderhe. 
860, Teal duck broiled. 
86i, salmi k la r^gence, 



INDEX. 



425 



859, Teal duck, roasted plain. 

878, Venison, saddle, currant jelly. 

885, chops, pur6e of chest- 
nuts. 

887, civet h. la fran9aise. 

886, civet, poivrade sauce. 

888, civet i la parisienne. 

889, pie 4 I'analricaine. 

879, steak broiled. 



SSi, Venison steak, Colbert sauce. 
884, currant jelly. 

880, Londonderry sauce. 

883, mashed potatoes; 

882, purfee of chestnuts. 

872, Woodcock broiled. 
871, roasted plain. 

873, salmi 4 la chasseur. 



aARNI3HINaS. 



254. 


Bouquet, how to prepare. 


249, Garnishing Mon 


143. 


Fine herbs cooked. 


230, 


mushrooms. 


144. 


raw. 


I75>^, 


normande. 


231. 


Garnishing Bayard. 


240, 


parisienne. 


243. 


bordelaise. 


245, 


a la Patti. 


242, 


cepes. 


235, 


rfegence. 


232, 


chipolata. 


253. 


Robinson. 


247. 


4 rScarlate. 


252, 


rouennaise. 


246, 


financifere. 


236, 


St. Nazaire. 


238, 


Godard. 


248, 


Stanley. 


241, 


gourmets. 


250, 


soubise. 


237. 


grecque. 


239. 


tortue. 


244> 


marrow. 


234. 


valencienne. 


251, 


milanaise. 


233. 


Vanderbilt. 



MORS D OKXJVRES. 



285, Anchovies, Norwegian. 
284, in oil. 

280, on toast. 

270, Bouch6es a la reine. 
269, Canap6 Madison. 

281, Caviare- on toast. 

291, Celery, frizzled. , 

290, in glass. 

271, Coquilles of chicken A I'an- 

glaise. 

272, of oysters au gratin. 
268, Cromesquis aux truffes. 

276, Croquettes, chicken, with truf- 

fles. 

278, foie-gras. 

277, of game. 

279, of macaroni. 

264, Croustades a la rfegence. 

265, de riz a la Victoria. 
289, Cucumbers. 

274, Lamb sweetbreads en caisses. 
287, Mortadella. 

275, Oysters en petites caisses. 



273, Oysters in shells ai'anglaise. 

266, Patties a I'anglaise. 

267. ortolans. 

292, Radishes, how to prepare. 

293, remarks on. 

257, Salpicon au chasseur. 
256, a la financifere. 

258, of lobsters, shrimps, &c. 

259, montglas. 
255, royale. 

260, sauce madSre. 
283, Sardines in oil. 
286, Sausage de Lyons. 

261, Timbales a I'lcossaise.. 

262, de nouilles a la g^noise. 

263, a la Schultze. 
282, Tunny-fish, pickled. 
288, Tomatoes, side dish. 

294, Welsh rarebit. 
297, au gratin. 
296, gherkin-buck. 

295, golden buck. 



4-26 



INDEX. 



LAMB. 



675, Ballotin of lamb, with peas. 
702, Breast, jardinifere, 

674, Brochette & la Dumas. 

681 , Chops A la Signora. 

682, 3 la Robinson. 

683, maison d'or. 

684, clichy. 

685, maintenon. 

686, Villeroi. 

687, MassSna. 

679, Croquettes a la Patti. 

680, Croustades of kidneys with 

mushrooms. 

676, Curry of lamb, asparagus- 

tops. 
678, h. la Creole. 

677, a. I'indienne. 

6go, Epigrammes of lamb 4 la 
chicorfee. 

691, a la louisiannaise. 
68g, a la mac^doine. 

692, a la soubise. 
672, Fries a la diable. 
67J3> " tomato sauce. 

701, Haricot of lamb a la Provi- 
dence. 
700, Hashed lamb a la polonaise. 
713, Kidneys, with bacon. 



714, Kidneys, with c^pes. 
712, Colbert sauce. 

715, deviled. 

585, Loin of lamb, roasted. 
688, Minced lamb a I'anglaise. 

1360, Mignohs of lamb, sauce b^ar- 

naise. 

693, Shoulder of lamb h I'africaine. 
699, a la flamande. 

696, a la jardinifere. 

697, a la mac6doine. 

694, a la purfie normande. 

698, a la rouennaise. 

695, stuffed tomatoes. 

1361, Spring lamb, roasted. 

716, Lamb steak, piir^e of peas. 

717, sauce piquante. 

718, a I'am^ricaine. 

705, Stewed lamb, Lima beans. 

709, string beans. 
711, a la Creole. 

707, aux flageolets. 
704, a la fran9aise. 

710, a la louisiannaise. 
703, oyster-plant. 

708, a la parisienne. 

706, with peas. 



NIUTTON. 



645, Chops a I'africaine. 


585, 


643, 


breaded. 


665, 


644, 


bretonne. 


666, 


646, 


napolitaine. 


670, 


642, 


a la provengale. 


668, 


647, 


soyer with potatoes. 


667, 


652, 


hashed a la zingara. 


671, 


653, 


" au gratin. 


664, 


661, 


Kidneys aux petit sale. 


669, 


663, 


sautes a I'italienne. 


654. 


662, 


sauce madfere. 


655, 


648, 


Leg, roasted plain. 


660, 


648, 


a la portugaise. 


657, 


649. 


a la Cond6. 


658, 


650. 


bretonne. 


659. 


651, 


caper sauce. 


656, 



, Loin, roasted. 
Saddle of mutton, Colbert. 

currant jelly. 

duchesse. 

Londonderry sauce. 

sauce poivrade. 

with potatoes. 

roasted plain. 
, a la S6vignS. 
, Sheep's feet a la poulette. 
, Stewed Mutton, fermifere. 
, Stew, Irish. 

marseillaise, 

portugaise. 

with potatoes. 

Splferino. 



INDEX. 



427 



PORK 



754, Bacon, broiled. 


748, Pork chops, apple sauce. 


719, Black sausages, mashed pota- 


744. 


broiled. 




toes. 


747. 


a la diable. 


721, Ham, boiled plain. 


743. 


plain. 


753. 


broiled and fried. 


745. 


sauce piquante. 


722, 


for family use. 


749. 


purfee of peas. 


723. 


roasted, champagne sauce. 


750, 


purfee of potatoes. 


724. 


" corn a la creme. 


746, 


sauce Robert. 


725, 


" with spinach. 


752, Pork and beans. 


726, Pig's cheek, with spinach. 


751. 


roasted. 


734, Pigs' feet, boned. 


741. 


tenderloin. 


730. 


& la Boston. 


736, Sausages a I'anglaise. 


729. 


sauce piquante. 


738, 


a la bourguignonne. 


731. 


lb la poulette. 


739. 


with cabbage. 


728, 


sauce Robert. 


740, 


a la gastronome. 


727. 


St. Hubert. 


737. 


a ritalienne. 


733. 


stuffed, madeira sauce. 


735. 


with white wine. 


732. 


P6rigueux. 


720, Suckling pig, apple sauce. 


742, Pork Andouillettes. 








POXJL 


JT\ 


^Y. 


785, 


Chicken 4 la Maryland. 


771. 


Chicken saut^, a la marengo. 


784. 


with rice. 


773. 


a la parmentier. 


781, 


fricass6 %. I'amfiricaine. 


777. 


a la rfegence. 


780, 


k la reine. 


774. 


with tarragon. 


779. 


boiled 4 la Providence. 


1363. 


a la Ranhofer. 


756, 


broiled with bacon. 


787. 


supreme a la Bayard. 


764. 


cromesquis a la Richelieu. 


789. 


a la Patti. 


765, 


4 la reine. 


788, 


3 la reine. 


760, 


croquettes a I'ficarlate. 


790, 


a la Rothschild. 


761, 


a la P6rigour- 


786, 


a la toulouse. 




din. 


82, 


Duck a I'Amfericaine. 


759. 


a la P^rigueux. 


824, 


roasted, apple sauce. 


758, 


a la reine. 


825, 


a la rouennaise. 


762, 


croustade a la Dreux. 


826, 


salmi a I'amfericaine. 


763, 


of livers au ma- 


829, 


a la bourgeoise. 




dfere. 


828, 


a la chasseur. 


794. 


curry a la crfeole. 


831. 


a la marfichale. 


793. 


a I'espagnole. 


830, 


a la montglas. 


792. 


a I'indienne. 


827, 


with olives. 


766, 


legs a la diable. 


808, 


Goose, stuffed with chestnuts. 


769. 


livers, with bacon. 


815. 


Pigeon cutlets a la Victoria. 


770. 


a ritalienne. 


820, 


Squabs a I'amSricaine. 


767. 


au madfere. 


818, 


ballotin a I'italienne. 


768, 


with mushrooms. 


817. 


broiled with bacon. 


783. 


pillau a la cr6ole. 


821, 


a la chipolata. 


782, 


a la turque. 


822, 


en compote. 


757. 


pot-pie. 


819, 


en crapaudine. 


755. 


roasted plain. 


816, 


roasted, plain. 


778. 


saute a la boh6mienne. 


809, 


Timbale of foies-gras, laga 


776. 
775. 


a la bordelaise. 




dJire. 


a la chasseur. 


791. 


Turban of chicken a la Cleve 


1362, 


a la Ch. C. Delmonico. 




land. 


772. 


a I'hongroise. 


795, 


Turkey a I'anglaise. 



42 8 



INDEX. 



799, Turkey, boiled S, la Baltimore! 

796, celery sauce. 
798, egg sauce. 

797, oyster sauce. 
766, Turkey legs a la diable. 

800, Turkey roasted and stuffed. 
800, roasted plain. 

813, boned, a la prosperity of 

America. 

814, jelly, for boned turkey. 



8o6,Turkey'breast a la chipolata. 
807, breast a la Robinson. 

802, hashed a. la bfechamel, 
805, hashed en bordure. 
.804, hashed a la crSme. 

803, hashed a la polonaise. 
801, hashed a la royale. 

810, vol-au-vent k la financifere. 
812, a la reine. 

811, a la toulouse. 



SALADS. 



1037. 


Anchovy. 


1075, Japanese. 


1038, 


Barbe de Capucine. 


1056, Lamb-tongue. 


1039, 


Beef. 


1059, Lettuce and cream. 


1040, 


Cauliflower. 


1058, and eggs. 


I04I, 


Celery. 


1057, plain. 


1042, 


mayonnaise. 


1060, and tomatoes. 


1043, 


Chapon for salad. 


1061, Lobster. 


1044, 


Chicken. 


1062, a la Plummer. 


1046, 


Chicory au chapon. 


1368, a la Boardman. 


1045. 


f>lain. 


1063, Mac^doine. 


1047, 


Crab. 


1673, Potato. 


1050, 


Dandelion and beet-root. 


1064, Romaine. 


1051, 


a. la Contoise. 


1065, Russian. 


1049, 


 with eggs. 


1066, Salmon. 


1048, 


plain. 


1067, Shrimp. 


1053. 


Doucette with beet-roots. 


io58, String-bean. 


1054, 


with eggs. 


1069, SuSdoise. 


1052, 


plain. 


1070, Toijiato, French dressing 


1055. 


Escarole. 


1071, mayonnaise. 


1074, 


Herring. 


1072, Watercress. 


1036, 


Italienne. 

1 

SAU 






CKS. 


146, 


Butter, anchovy. 


200, Sauce celery. 


150, 


crawfish. 


212, Chambord. 


148, 


horseradish. 


204, champagne. 


149. 


.;, , lobster. 


197, chasseur. 


145. 


maitre d'h6tel. 


190, Colbert. 


147. 


ravigote. 


. 199, crapaudine. 


210, 


Sauce allemande. 


181, cream. , 


163, 


anchovy. 


185, demi-glace. 


168, 


apple. 


198, diable. 


182, 


a I'aurore. 


183, duchesse. 


166, 


bfearnaise. 


189, duxelle. 


154, 


bfechamel. 


161, egg. 


186, 


bordelaise.   


.151, espagnole. 


162, 


bread. 


187, g6noise. 


159. 


black butter. 


170,  green. 


157. 


drawn butter. 


196, hachfee. 


155. 


melted butter. 


> i6o,- hollandaise. 


t56. 


nut-brown butter. 


164, horseradish. 


651, 


caper. 


174, Indian. 



, 


INDEX. 




429 


i88, 


Sauce Italian. 


184, 


Sauce princesse. 




I5. 


lobster. 


2og, 


remoulade. 




185, 


madeira. 


192, 


Robert. 




177. 


maitre d'hotel, li^e. 


211, 


Russian. 




180, 


matelote. 


I93i 


salmi. 




206, 


'mayonnaise. 


178, 


shrimp. 




169, 


mint. 


IT. 


supreme. 




213. 


montglas. 


172. 


tarragon. 




202, 


mustard. 


207, 


tartare. 




195, 


napolitaine. ' 


205, 


tomato. 




175. 


normande. 


176, 


toulouse. 




173. 


oyster. 


167, 


trianon. 




165. 


percillade. 


152, 


veloutfe. 




191, 


Pferigueux. 


179. 


vfenitienne. 




203, 


piquante. 


208, 


Victoria. 




194. 


poivrade. 


153. 


ViUeroi. 




598, 


poulette. 


201, 


vinaigrette. 





SOUPS 



5. 


Beef it. I'anglaise. 


126, 


Consommfe Patti. 


6, 


& l'cossaise. 


113. 


princesse. 


8, 


Bisque of clams. 


109, 


printanier. 


9. 


of crabs. 


121, 


printanier Colbert. 


10, 


of lobster. 


124, 


printanier royale. 


I, 


Bouille-^-baisse. 


100, 


pure. 


2, 


Brunoise. 


129, 


aux quenelles. 


3. 


with rice. 


123, 


Rachel. 


4. 


with sorrel. 


115, 


renaissance. 


7. 


Busecca. 


107, 


royale. 


65, 


Chicken a la Creole. 


io4j 


semoule, or tapioca. 


64, 


4 I'hollandaise. 


105, 


semoule ^ la creme. 


68, 


with leeks. 


106, 


Sfevignfe. 


67. 


I'okra. 


122, 


su^doise. 


63- 


^ la pimontaise. 


84. 


Cream 4 I'allemande. 


66, 


a la portugaise. 


72, 


of artichokes. 


62, 


i. la Richmond. 


70, 


of asparagus. 


69, 


4 la4urque. 


77. 


^ of barley. 

^ of cauliflower. 


14. 


Chiffonade. 


73. 


132, 


for soups. 


71, 


of celery. 


13. 


Chowder, clam. 


86, 


of celery a I'espagnole. 


12, 


fish. 


82, 


of chicken. 


116, 


Consomm6 a I'africaine. 


83, 


of game. 


117. 


^ I'andalouse. 


88, 


of lentils 4 la majordomo 


119, 


i, I'anglaise. 


87, 


of lettuce. 


118, 


c61estine. 


75, 


of Lima beans. 


128, 


chatelaine. 


74. 


Palestine. 


120, 


Colbert. 


76. 


of Gried peas. 


108, 


Deslignac. 


78, 


of rice. 


no, 


d'Orleans. 


79, 


of sorrel. 


114, 


Douglas. 


81, 


of sorrel, fermifere. 


lOI, 


Dubourg. 


80, 


of sorrel with rice. 


125. 


duchesse. 


85, 


of turnips. 


112, 


Garbaldi. 


II, 


Croute-au-pot. 


III, 


imperial. 


134, 


Croutons soufBfees. 


102, 


Mass^na. 


133, 


for soup. 


127. 


napolitaine. 


25, 


Frogs k I'espagnole. 


103, 


aux pdtes. 


22, 


Giblets 4 I'anglaise. 



430 INDEX. 


21, Giblets with barley 


95, Potage a la McDonald. 


20, a r^cossaise. 


98, of rice a la maintenon. 


ig, with rice. 


97, a la Montmorency. 


i6, Green turtle. 


94, a la Windsor. 


18, clear. 


45, Puree bretonne. 


15, how to prepare. 


91, of chestnuts a la jardinifere. 


24, Gumbo of crabs. 


48, Condfe. 


23, with frogs. 


47, Crfecy. 


28, Jardinifere. 


46, faubonne. 


27, Julienne. 


49, of gceen peas. 


36, Menestra. 


43, Jackson. 


32, Mikado. 


50, Mongole. 


17, Mock turtle. 


44, parmentier. 


30, Mutton with barley. 


89, of partridge a la Destaing. 


31, 3 rScossaise. 


go, a la gentilhomme. 


34, Mulligatawney. ' 


92, soubise with white beans. 


45, a la Delmonico. 


131, of chestnuts. 


37, Napolitaine. 


55, Russe. 


130, Onion. 


29, Shin of beef, li6e. 


40, Ox-tail a I'anglaise. 


41, Sorrel, asparagus-tops. 


38, with barley. 


42, with rice. 


39, a. r^cossaise. 


56, Spaghetti with tomatoes. 


26, Oyster. 


61, Terrapin. 


53. Paysanne. 


60, how to prepare. 


54, Pot-au-feu. 


58, Tomatoes a I'andalouse. 


52, Printanier chasseur. 


57, with rice. 


51, grenat. 


59, with sago. 


93, Potage a la diploraate. 


33, Westmoreland. 


96, a la Dorsay. 


99, White broth. 



STOCKS. 



217, 


Chicken essence. 




140, 


Marinade, raw. 


216, 


Clear gravy. 




137, 


white. 


142, 


Court bouillon. 




141, 


Meat-glaze 


215, 


Duxelle. 




138, 


Mirepoix. 


214, 


Fish broth. 




136, 


Roux, brown. 


2ig, 


Game. 




135. 


white. % 


139. 


Marinade, cooked. 












VE 


.AL. 


549. 


Blanquette of veal. 




637. 


Calf's head plain. 


553. 


a I'ancienne. 




639. 


a la poulette. 


552. 


with nouilles. 




641, 


en tortue. 


550. 


a la reine. 




640, 


a la vinaigrette. 


551, 


with peas. 




583. 


Calf's liver, braised. 


591. 


Braised noix of veal en 


daube. 




g^ise. 


590. 


a la Providence. 




584, 


broiled with bacon. 


596. 


Breast of veal a la milanaise. 


582, 


saut6 a I'alsacienne. 


554> 


Brisotin of veal. 




580, 


a I'italienne. 


555. 


a I'ecarlate. 




581, 


a la provenjale. 


556, 


nantaise. 




597. 


Calf's feet, naturel. 


557. 


Calf's brain, black butter. 


599. 


sauce piquante. 


559. 


fried, tartare sauce. 




598. 


a la poulette. 


558. 


a la vinaigrette. 




600, 


sauce remoulade. 


638, 


Calf's head a la Cavour 




567. 


Curry of veal a I'indienne 



bour- 



INDEX. 



431 



562. 


Cutlets ^ la marSchale. 


611, 


Sweetbreads, aux cSpes. 


563. 


a la milanaise. 


617, 


a la Colbert. 


560. 


a la Pagasqui. 


608, 


a. la duxelle. 


566. 


en papillotes. 


603, 


^ la iinanci^re. 


565, 


a la Philadelphia. 


614, 


i la Godard. 


561, 


El la St. Cloud. 


612, 


aux gourmets. 


563, 


breaded, tomato ^uce. 
broiled. " 


615, 


a la montglas. 


564. 


609, 


with mushrooms. 


569, 


Escalops of veal a la duxelle 


613. 


i. la parisienne. 


571. 


& la chicorfee. 


6i8, 


a. la Pompadour. 


572. 


a I'italienne. 


605. 


au salpicon. 


568, 


plain. 


604, 


with sorrel. 


573. 


a la proven5ale. 


606, 


soubise. 


574, 


^ la Richelieu. 


607, 


with spinach. 


570, 


with stuffed peppers. 


622, 


coquilles S la cardinal. 


579, 


Fricandeau ^ la morlaisienne. 


621, 


% la Dreux. 


577. 


with sorrel. 


623, 


a la reine. 


578, 


with spinach. 


620, 


croquettes with peas. 


589. 


Grenadins of veal ^ I'africaine. 


6ig, 


a la Perigueux. 


587, 


a la chipolata. 


629, 


Stewed veal, bourgeoise. 


586, 


puree of peas. 


632, 


a la chasseur. 


588, 


a la S6vign6. 


626, 


a la grecque. 


585, 


Loin of veal, roasted. 


624, 


a la Marengo. 


576. 


Minced veal a la biscaenne. 


630, 


with oyster-plant. 


575. 


a la Catalan. 


631, 


with peas. 


595. 


Panpiette of veal ^ la duxelle. 


627, 


a la portugaise. 


594. 


purSe of chestnuts. 


625, 


a la proven9ale. 


593. 


4 l'6carlate. 


628, 


 a la Solferino. 


592, 


k la faubonne. 


636, 


Tendron of veal a la chipolata. 


601, 


Sweetbreads, how to blanch. 


635. 


a la morlaisienne. 


610, 


a la bearnaise. 


633. 


a la nantaise. 


602, 


braised. 


634, 


with sorrel. 


616, 


a la Catalan. 







VBOKTABIvES. 



896, 


Artichokes a la Barigoul. 


921, 


Cabbage and pork. 


898, 


a la duxelle. 


919. 


stuffed. 


903. 


a la florentine. 


931. 


Cardons a la moelle. 


899, 


fried. 


927. 


Carrots and cream. 


900, 


with sauce. 


925, 


Cauliflower with butter. 


897. 


stewed. 


926, 


au gratin. 


goi, 


stuffed. 


928, 


Celery a la bonne femme. 


902, 


a la vinaigrette. 


929. 


with cream. 


904, 


Asparagus, Sauce hollandaise. 


930. 


a la moelle de bceuf. 


906, 


a la tessinoise. 


932. 


Chicory, cream sauce. 


905. 


a la vinaigrette. 


934. 


for garnishing. 


375. 


canned. 


933. 


with gravy.  


966, 


Barley fritters. 


962, 


Corn, boiled. 


950, 


Beans panachSes. 


964. 


saut6 au beurre. 


910, 


Beet-roots, boiled plain. 


963. 


a la creme. 


911, 


sautSes au beurre. 


965. 


fritters. 


912, 


a la creme. 


1375. 


canned. 


922, 


Brussels sprouts au beurre. 


936, 


Cucumbers a la bechamel 


923. 


a la creme. 


938. 


for garnishing. 


917. 


Cabbage, blanched. 


936, 


a la poulette. 


918, 


with cream. 


937. 


stuffed. 


920, 


for garnishing. 


908, 


Egg-plant, broiled. 



432 



INDEX. 



907, Egg-plant, fried, 
gog, stuffed. 

1365, Flageolets sautes au beurre. 
g76, Green peas a I'ancienne mode. 
978, ^ I'anglaise. 

981, with bacon. 
g7g, a la bourgeoise. 
g8o, with cream. 
g77, a la fran5aise. 

1034, Hominy, boiled. 

1035, fried. 
1033, Jardiniere. 

g52, Lima beans. 
1375, canned. 

954, Macaroni a, la crSme. 

955, au gratin. 

956, a. I'italienne. 
958, a la inilanaise. 
g57, a la napolitaine. 

1032, Mac6doine of vegetables. 
gi3, Mushrooms 3. la bordelaise. 
916, broiled on toast. 
'915, saut6s a. la crime. 
914, on toast. 

1030, Okras, boiled. 

1031, sautes ^ la Creole. 
g68, Onions, with cream. 
g69, fried. 

972, for garnishirig. 

971,  minced. 

970, stuffed. 
1021, Oyster-plant, fried, 
loig, a la poulette. 
1018, saut6s au beurre. 
1020, a la creme. 
1382, Peas, canned. 

988, Potatoes a, I'anglaise. 

987, a I'anglaise a crft. 
' g8g, with bacon. 

gg6, balls, 
looi , bignon. 

982, boiled plain. 

983, broiled, 
loog, chateau. 

g97, croquettes. 
1006, duchesse. 

993, fried. 
1000, gastronome. 

984, gfenevroise. 
1012, a la Hanna. 

1002, hashed. 

1003, with cream. 

1004, au gratin. 



ggg. Potatoes, hollandaise. ' 

990, Italian. 

1013, julienne. 

991, lyonnaise. 

985, maitre d'h6tel. 
998, mashed. 

1014, en paille. 

986, parisienne. 
997, quenelles. 

1007, a la rice, 
loi I , Saratoga. 

995, sautfees. 
995, au beurre. 

loio, soufflfees. 

992, stuffed. 
1005, en surprise. 

1008, Windsor. 

951, Red beans a la bourguignonne. 

1015, Rice boiled, plain. 

1016, a, la Ristori. 

1017, Risotto a la milanaise. 

1022, Succotash. ' 

974, Sorrel au gras. 
973, au maigre. 
924, Sourkrout. 

961, Spaghetti, au gratin. 
960, a I'italienne. 
959, a la napolitaine. 

940, Spinach a I'anglaise. 
939, blanched. 

943, with gravy. 
942, maitre d'h6tel. 

941, vieille mode. 

944, with sugar. > 

948, String beans k I'anglaise. 
947, au blanc. 

945, blanched. 

949, bretonne. 

946, with cream. 
1386; canned. 

953, Stuffed lettuce. 

975. peppers. 

1026, Tomatoes a la Bock. 
1025, broiled. 

1029, a la marseillaise. 
1024, a la reine. 
1028, roasted. 

1027, stewed. 

1023, stuffed. 

1394, with rice a la Watson. 
1384, canned. 
967, Turnips, with gravy. 



