



rRUlTS 



ALBERT R. MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 








^.-^^z — - ----- r- - 




1 




From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco, 1912. 






681 




The original of tliis bool< is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924087319681 



FRUITS, 

AND 

HOW TO USE THEM. 

A PRACTICAL 

MANUAL FOK HOUSEKEEPEES; 

CONTAJNINa NEABTiY SEVEN HUNDBBD RECIPES FOB 
WHOLESOME PBEPABATIONS OP 

FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC FRUITS. 
BY MRS. HESTEK M. POOLE. 



fTult Of all kiiias, in coat 
Kouifh, or smooth rind, or bearded uusk, ur saell,— 
Sliegathers tribute large, and on the board 
Heaps with unsparing hand ; for drink, thu jj rape 
She crushes, inoffensive must, and meathes 
From many a berry, and from sweet Kernels pressed 
She tempers dulcet creams. „.,, 



Chicago : 
WOMAN'S TEMPERANCE PUBLISHING ASSOCLATION. 

1892 



Pgz 



v-opyrlght 18?4> 

JfOWLEB <fc WELLS COMPANY. 
SWW TORK 



TO THE WOMEN OF THE W. C. T. U. 

who, with their noblb leadbk 

Miss Feanoks B. Willard, 

a.kb wobking fob the uplifting of hxtmanity, and to alij 

riTHEB WOM EN WHO STBIVE TO MINISTEB TO THE HIG: 

Fili LIFE OP THE HOUSEHOLD THEOUGH THE 

USE OF HEALTHFUL, NUTEITIOUS AND 

UNSTIMULATING FOOD. 

THIS BOOK 
IS KESPECTFULLY DEDICATED. 



PREFACE. 



■While gathering and formulating recipes concerning the 
preparation of fruits for her own private use, the author 
and compiler of the present book was struck by the fact 
that there existed no simple yet comprehensive work upon 
the subject. It is true that cook-books flood the market, 
but the major portion of them deal with all sorts and con- 
ditions of materials. What appeared to be needed, was, 
first, a greater variety of dishes in which fruit enters as an 
ingredient and that are at once easily made, appetizing 
and wholesome; secondly, such an arrangement as shall 
show at a glance the changes which may be rung upon 
any one kind of fruit. 

It is frequently the case that the housekeeper who is 
blessed with a superabundance of apples, peaches, pears, 
or dates, finds her household cloying upou the two or three 
modes in which they are usually served. Recipes for a 
dozen new dishes to be made out of the same fruit are then 
an acquisition, the value of which only a housekeeper can 
justly estimate. 

In the eight million and more kitchens which are the 
pivotal centers of the physical life and activity of our 
country, fruits are daily growing more important as a sta- 
ple article of food. And, as civilization advances they 



will take a still higher raak as their relatioas with health, 
temperance and economy will then be far better under- 
stood than they are to-day. 

In treating this subject an arbitrary classification seems 
necessary, as only those fruits which rt-qnire cooking or 
are eaten in their natural state as dessert, demand atten- 
tion. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS, 

Fruit as Food, 9 

Hygienic Value of Fruit, 13 

Increase in the Use of Fruit, 17 

Fruit and Temperance, 20 

The Culture and Preservation of Fruit by Women, . 22 

The Apple, 27 

The Apricot, 50 

The Banana, 51 

The Blackberry, 55 

The Cherry, 57 

Chocolate 60 

TheCocoanut, 62 

The Cranberry, 67 

The Currant, 70 

The Date, 73 

TheFig, . . . . 77 

The Gooseberry, 80 

The Grape, 82 

The Grape Fruit, 83 

TheGuava, 84= 

The Huckleberry, 84 

The Lemon, 87 

The Lime, 93 

The Mango, 93 

Nats for Food, 94 

The Orange, 95 

The Peach 102 

The Pear, 107 

The Persimmon, 109 

The Plum, 109 

The Pine-apple, Ill 



TABLE OF CONTENTS, Concluded. 

The Pomegranate, 112 

The Prune, 113 

The Quince 115 

The Raisin, HG 

The Raspberry 119 

The Strawberry, 121 

The Tamarind, 12G 

Miscellaneous, 127 

Fruit Puddings, 134 

Fruit Sauces for Puddings, 140 

Sauces for Game, 142 

Fruit Filling for Layer Cake, 143 

Fruit Jellies, Jams, and Marmalades, 149 

Fruit Pastes and Jellies without Sugar, . . . .158 

Dried Fruits 159 

Fruit Beverages and Syrups, 161 

Fruit Canned, 171 

Fruit Preserves, 178 

Jelly aud Preserves, How to Keep 187 

Fruit Frosted and Candied, 188 

Fruit and Gelatine,— Jellies and Sponges, . . . 193 

Fruit Creams, Floats, Blanc-Mange and Meriaguos, . 200 

Fiuit Ice-Cream, Water-ices aud Sherbets, . .195, 212 

Fruit and Tapioca, 219 

Fruit Frozen, 220 

Fruit Pickles, 222 

Fruit Catsups, 227 

Fruit Salad, 228 

How to Keep Fruits, . .' 230 

Weights and Measures, 232 

How to Serve Fruit, ■• . . .233 

C(mcluding Notes 231- 



INTKODUUTION. 



FRUIT AS FOOD. 

In that future toward which the eyes of both Eealists and 
Idealists are now directed more eagerly than at any pre- 
ceding period, there can be no doabt that all things will 
be noted nearer their true worth than they aie to-day. In 
cooking especially ,~ many compounds now in vogue will 
sink into disuse, but their places will be filled with foods 
which are pleasant to the eye, delicious to the taste and 
yet easy to prepare. In all departments of t he household 
that beautiful and harmonious simplicity which is evidence 
of the highest culture, must prevail, and it will be found 
that a simple, wholesome and appetizing dietary, one 
which can be prepared with ease and served with elegance, 
is that one in which Fruits will play a most important 
pait. 

The value of Fruits as Food is far from being generally 
understood. Grown in every quarter of the globe, 
ripening in succession from early spring till winter, fra- 
grant, tootts me and pire. the fruits and their more solid 
cousins, the grains, afford e\eij element needed for the 
norishment of the human frame. True, these elements 
are never found in a form as concentrated as in the flesh 
of animals, and herein lies one mark of their superiority. 



10 FEUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

One of the greatest dangers of this age is that result- 
ing from too great concentratic.n^ — whether it be found in so- 
cial life, in wealth, or iu food. On this point it is well to 
heed the words of Sir Henry ThomsoQ, one of the most 
distinguished of living physicians and an authoi'ity on all 
matters connected with dietetics. In " Food and Feeding" 
he writes : 

"Speaking in general terms, Man seems at the present 
time prone to choose foods which are unnecessarily con- 
centrated and too rich in nitrogenous and flesh-formmg 
material and to consume more in quantity thau is neces- 
sary for the healthy performance of animal functions. * * * 
H(j makes very small account of the different requirements 
by the child, the mature person and the decliuing or 
aged person. As to the exercise of any taste in the 
serving or the combining of different foods at a meal, the 
subject is completely out of reaih of the majority of peo- 
ple and is as little comprehended by them as the structure 
and harmonies of a symphony are by the first whistling 
boy one chances to meet upon the street. " 

There is no danger, according, to experience as well as 
chemical investigation, of a want of nutrimeut in a diet 
composed of fruits and grains; the trouble will be to dress 
and serve them so thai, they shall be suited to the eye and to 
the taste. When that is done there is no possibility of 
absorbing the germs of disease through bacteria or animal 
poison. From analysis it is found that wheat, apples, and 
berries; peaches and other stone fruits, fiu:nish a rich, pure 
blood which nourishes strong muscles and a clean physical 
economy. 

It is useless to lay before the housekeeper a statement of 
the amount of carbon starch, albumen, and sugar furnished 
by this food and that; what she wishes is the very best 
nourishment for the brains and bodies of those to whom she 
ministers, and to know how to serve it in a maimerat once 



iNrBODUcTlolif. n 

healthful and delectable. Nature is a better chemist 
than mac, and nature has packed within envelopES of vari- 
ous forms and hues those exquisite acids and sweets, flavors 
and essences, which in some subtle way sustain every por- 
tion of the system from the hair of the head to the nails of 
the fingers and feet. 

Let us take the apple, for instance, which in value ranks 
among fruits equal to wheat among cereals. It contains 
sugar, the malic and tannic acids, gluten, pectin, fibrin, 
starch, traces of free salts and water. Bat little care the 
tosy, round-cheeked children who live on apples almost en- 
tirely from the time the August pippin turns yellow till 
Christmas-tide; they only know that their favorite fruit, 
vvith bread and butter and an occasional potato satisfies 
every need. 

It appears in experiments with Alexis St. Martin, that 
a ripe apple in a healthy'stomach ought to digest within 
an hour and a half from the time it is eaten, and stone 
fruits and berries in about the same length of time. In 
cases of poor digestion fruit ought to be tfiken with bread, 
not with vegetables or meats, or taken alone. Nor is fruit 
healthful to such when smothered with sugar and 
drenched in cream. It is only a perverted taste which 
demands sugar to make palatable perfectly ripened fruits 
and such a person knows nothing of the enjoyment to be 
derived from unmixed natural flavors skillfully compound- 
ed by the Great Chemist in nature's own laboratory. 

In respect to food values scientists rank grapes next to 
apples. Schlickeyseu terilis one the king of fruits, the 
other the queen; in that case the berriesmight be members 
of the royal family, peaches, pears and plums, members 
of the cabinet, and tropical fruits, the foreign ministers. 



12 FEOITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

To drop the simile and return to the value of fruit as 
food, it is only necessary to allude to the use made of the 
cocoanut, the date, the fig, the piueapple and the bread-fruit 
by the inhabitants of the zones where such luscious fruit- 
age freely flourishes. In the south of Europe figs consti- 
tute a large part of the dietary five months out of twelve. 
Arabs when crossing the desert wU] live for weeks upon a 
handful of dates per day. When the public games of ancient 
Greece were first instituted the atheletea were trained en- 
tirely on \egetable food. " At first," says Eollin, "they 
had no other nc)urishment but dried figs, nuts, soft cheese 
and a gi'oss, heavy sort of bread." 

In every nation a simple diet is the food of strong, 
healthy muscular people. " With respect to the Moorish 
porters in Spain, " vyrites Capt. Chase, who commanded a 
merchant vessel which loaded at Spanish ports, " I have 
witnessed the exceedingly large loads they are in the 
habit of carrying and have been struck with astonishmetit 
at their muscular powers. * * * They brought theii' food 
on board with them which consisted of coarse brown bread 
and grapes. " The modern Greeks are athletic and power- 
ful, yet their food consists of black breads a bunch of 
grapes and raisins and some figs, on which they breakfast 
and dine. The captain of a schooner seme time ao'o 
came into Portland laden with barilla from the Canary 
Islands. He declared that he saw "four stout American 
laborers attempt ia vaia to lift one of the masses of barUla 
which the captain and mate both solemnly af&rmed was 
brought from the storehouse to the vessel by a single man, 
a native laborer, where they freighted, and he subsisted 
entirely on fruit and coarse vegetable food." The boat 
men of Constantinople rejoice in a splendid physical de- 



INTRODUCTIOK. l3 

veloptnent, yet their diet is chiefly bread with cherries, 
figs, dates, mulberries or other fruits. 

In short, the experience nf mankind shows that simple 
food including much fruit, conduces to strength and lon- 
gevity. 

HYGIENIC VALUE OP FRTTIT. 

K it be generally known that all food is both nutritive 
and stimulative, it is not, certainly, remembered that on 
the proper bSlance between nutrition and stimulation, de- 
pends perfect enjoyment of existence and health. 

These, in fact, are synonymous terms. To feel an 
abounding and elastic vigor, to have a continual sense of 
power, to be able to use bod.y and mind at will in a world 
where everything around and above incites to exertion 
and attainment, are certainly what should be eagerly 
sought. Much as has been said upon the subject of diet 
in this regard, the use of pure fruits and grains cannot be 
too much insisted upon. 

Among the authorities upon this subject are some of the 
most progressive physicians and scientists of the age. 

"Writing to the " Medical Classics " very lately. Dr. Fer- 
dinand Seeger says : 

" It is an obseirvation not less important than true, that 
by attending merely to a proper diet, a phlegmatic tem- 
perament may frequently be changed into a sanguine one, 
and the hypochondriac may be so altered as to become a 
cheerful member of societj'. The eating of fruit at the 
commencement of a meal, while it pi-esents a bland or con- 
genial material to the delicate lining of the alimentary or- 
gans, forming a welcome precursor to more substantial ar- 
ticles, and is, to home extent, a safeguard against the over- 
feeding which comes from reserving the fruit till the 
stomach is already overloaded with enough, perhaps too 



14 FBUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

much, of other food. Fruits should be ripe when eaten 
on an empty stomach and for their laxative effect should 
be eaten before anything else. In this way constipation 
may, with many individuals, be avoided, especially when 
the quantity of ot'ier articles of the meaj is within reason- 
able limits." 

Dr. Seeger continues: 

"If our bilious friends would throw aside their liver 
piUa and study nature in her most smiling and bounteous 
mocd, would allow her to tempt them as Eve tempted old 
Adam, they would take to fruit, and by pleanant, natural 
and healthful methods, free themselves of the thick biUous 
impurities which make them a nuisance to themselves as 
well as to all around tbem. Bihousness is one of those 
demons that can be pretty well exorcised by proper diet 
and due amount of exercise. Acid and astringent frnit 
being rather a medicine than food, is less hurtful to the 
healthy, and to children, than is commonly supposed. In- 
stead of being noxious, as some imagine, in inflammatory 
diporders, it is of the greatest service. Persons of a thick 
and languid blood cannot eat anything morn conducive to 
health than fruit, as it possesses the property of attenu- 
ating and putting such blood in motion." 

In " Eating for Strength " Dr. Holbrooke quotes from a 
physician as follows: - 

"There is scarcely a disease to which the human family 
is heir, but the sufferings therefrom would be greatly re- 
lieved or entirelj' prevented by the use of fruits which are 
now so generally forbidden." He relates that during the 
war many of the troops who were sick with diarrhoea and 
dysentery cured those disorders by .stoaling from the 
hospitals into the fields and eating fruits, blackberries es- 
pecially. Children suffering with cholera infantum were 
sent to the peach orchards of Delaware with the most 
gratifying results; and in typhoid fever, that dread disease 
pften takes a more favorable course where the free use of 



INTRODUCTION. 15 

such fruits as peaches and grapes is allowed. In scarlet 
fever and diphtheria, native and foreign fruits are most 
useful. He concludes: " There is scarcely a disease ac- 
companied with fever but grapes and bananas may be free- 
ly given to the patient. In the treatment of dysentery I 
would very much prefer ripe, sound fi'uits, peaches espe- 
cially, to any medicine that can be suggested." 

Confirmatory of the therapeutic value of fruit is a re- 
markable cure recorded in an English Medical Journal, 
"The Lancet" some time ago. The case was that of a 
child three years of age who had been ill during' half hia 
lifetime. Covered from head to foot with ulcers, blind and 
in constant pain it seemed as if death alone could bring 
reUef. Eight eminent medical men had pronounced him in- 
curable and the ninth began his almost hopeless task with 
a determination to try the virtue of fruit. The boy's 
diet consisted almost entirely of ripe fruits and sugar or 
honey. He was allowed to eat grapes, cherries, apples, pears, 
plums and such other fruits as could be obtained, either 
in their natural state or cooked. 

Within three days the mass of rimning ulcers which 
covered the little body showed signs of amendment. He 
soon began to open his eyes for the first time in over a 
year, and at the end of three and a half months the child 
was pronounced cured. His skin had become remarkably 
clear and fair while the swollen features had returned to 
their wonted appearance. Other noteworthy cases might 
be repeatedly cited, but all illustrate the same important 
principle. 

It is a curioas fact that those who show high intelli- 
gence in other regards, are often lamentably deficient in 
respect to physical habits, especially to diet. 



16 FEUITS AND HO V TO USE IHEM. 

Although the climate of the United States incites to too 
rapid expenditures of vitality so that the " nervous Ameri- 
can temperament" has made for itself a name the world 
over, men usually eat and drink the most stimulating food 
they can procure. The serene, steady, self-poised person 
is the exception, certainly in tov^ns and cities. The ex- 
citable temperament " grows by what it feeds upon" and 
the animal propensities are strengthened at the expense of 
the higher faculties. 

It would be bad enough were this state of things induced 
by a fierce struggle for existence, but such is not the case. 
With stcires of fruitage from every country upon the earth, 
it must be conceded that choice, not compulsion, decide 
what shall be the dietary of our country people. 

To quote from Schlickeysen's " Fruit and Biead:" 

" The various grain foods in the form of puddings with 
fruit sauce will make an abundant dinner. Thus sup- 
ported by all the enlivening influences of light and air, 
the whole system improves as if infused with a new life. 
The muddy complexion clears, the pimples depart, sores 
heal and there is a pure, sweet taste in the mouth, in short 
a new man is born. The advantages of this diet are so 
conspicuous that we williagly bid defisinae to all those 
hindrances that obstruct its enjoyment." 

Among fruits the physiological tiffect, of grapes is most - 
marked. Dr. Holbrook states that, "Eaten with other 
suitable food, and especially with bread, in quantities of from 
one to two pounds dailj'-, they increase nutrition, promote 
secretion and excretion, improve the action of the liver 
kidneys and bowels and add to the health." Great effica- 
cy has been attributed to the grape care and it is used in 
a great variety of cases, such as consumption of the lungs 
catarrh, affections of the liver, scrofula, asthma, and diseas 



INTRODUCTION. 17 

es of the kidneys. The use of the grape juice also, is large- 
ly on the increase and it is recommended by physicians 
of every class. 

Eegarding other fruit«, it is hardly within the province 
of this book to mention the therapeutic qualities they are 
believed to possess. All the world highly esteems the prop- 
erties of the orange and greatly prizes the lemon and the 
lime; the strawberry has been known to cure malarial 
fevers, and figs and prunes, dates and banaias, cherries 
and peaches are all distinguished for their healthful quali- 
ties. They should not be eaten uncooked after a hot 
meal, when the stomach is in a relaxed condition, but at 
proper seasons they can supersede the use of medicine. 

INCKEASB IN THE USE OF FKUIT. 

To woman the increased culture of fruit is a peculiar 
blessing. Unless the housewife be hope)essly wedded to the 
old custom of providing heavy meats, rich puddings and 
dyspeptic pastry, there is no reason why she may not by 
the use of fruit, furnish a large and practically endless 
variety of dishes, one day after another, all through the 
year. 

The work of food preparation too, is reduced to its mini- 
mum, and how vastly more agreeable to a woman of refine- 
ment IS the handling of fruits than that of a greasy animal 
food ! 

To the horticulturist the world owes more than can be 
estimated. To tame straggling brambles aud wild tre?s 
into prolific subjection, and cause them to shower their 
melting and aromatic sweetness upon mankind, is to great- 
ly help the march of true civilization. 

Within the last decade a great change has taken pla^e 



18 FEUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

ill regard to the use of fruit and the end is not yet 
reached. Time was when apple orchards, and a few pear 
and plum trees with unkempt currant bushes were all 
that could be found in large sections of most of the 
Northern States, and peaches and meloQS satisfied the 
gardeners of the south. Barefooted children and weary 
women, tin pails in hand, during the season wandered far 
and wide over rough pastures, through briers and up steep 
hillsides in search of wild berries. Then a little stewed 
sauce, some pies, and a few quarts dried among the flies of 
the kitchen, were all that could be expected in the way of 
fruit, save the bins of Seek-uo-furthers and Greenings 
which were, indeed, a treasure. No, not quite all. Every 
thrifty housewife had a few jars of "preserves" made in 
the old way of " pound for pound. " They justified the 
name since they were " preserved" for such occasions as 
the " minister's " visits, company from a distance, or a quilt- 
ing bee. 

Happily all thi« is changed. In every village lot ripen a 
few bushes or a bed of berries to which tlie youngsters have 
access, and outside of the great cities that family must be 
poor indeed which does not grow a quantity of fruit for the 
wiuter's use. It is marketed in such profusion and sold so 
cheap as to come within the reach of all, even foreign fruits 
having grown to be a necessity. Di^es one weary .of the 
uncooked berry or drupe ? There are preparations of gela- 
tiues, creams, blanc-manges, tapiocas, custards, charlottes, 
meringues, batter puddings, baked puddings, roly-polys 
and short-cake whose number is almost legion. Nearly 
one hundred dishes can be made out of apple alone, to say 
nothing of all other kinds, natural and imported. The 
wholesome and aesthetic influence of their culture and 



INT-10DU0TI0N. 19 

preparation is somethiag which must appeal to all who 
possess delicate sensibilities or an appreciation of the beau- 
tiful. 

It is impossible to obtain accariite data concerning the 
increase in the use of fruit, but it is certain to be greatly 
in excess of the popular estimate. The gentleman to 
whom was consigned, in 1871, the first car-load of Cali- 
fornia grapes, (or fruits of any kind), confidently asserts 
that there has beeo sold in the city of New York during 
'he year 1889, three times as much fruit as during the year 
1886. During the season from five to twenty-fire car-loads 
of fruit per week, shipped from or near the Pacific Coast, 
reached New York in 1889, and most of it was sold at auc- 
tion, a late and favorite method of disposing of this per- 
ishable commodity. On each car-load the freight alone 
ftmounts from $450, to as high as $600, or 1700. 

This estimate is for green fruit. Dried prunes, apricots, 
peaches and raisins annually increase at an enormous 
ratio as growers learn how to cure and pack in such a 
manner as to compete with foreign horticulturisls. Hence 
the business of handling, as well as growing fruits, is as- 
suming vast proportions. All these facts indicate an 
amelioration of a heavy diet to one better fitted to the 
progress of the centuiy. 

It has been anticipated that the large supply of western 
fruit might discourage the growers of the eastern portion 
of the Union, but that hardly seems imminent. While 
California fruit is large, smooth and attractive in appear- 
ance, to many tastes it lacks that indescribable flavor 
which is the birthright of its cousin grown on the Atlan- 
tic slope. If one excels in size the other excels in intrin- 
sic richness and the world can spare neither. Besides, 



20 FRUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

the market grows as fast as the production, and through 
increased facilities for transportation every hamlet in the 
country teems with such lusciousness as half a century 
ago it would be impossible for an e-nperor to command. 

JFVuit growing in Morida also shows an immense yearly 
increase. During the season of 1888-9, according to the 
Florida Fruit Fjxchange, 600,000 boxes of oranges were 
shipped to New York City alone. Of this fruit the first to 
arrive comes from Havana, followed by that from Jamai- 
ca and Porto Rico, afterward the productions of Florida 
and California. Then comes the Mediterranean oranges 
including those from Valencia, Messina, Palermo, Catania, 
Joppa, or the Holy Land, and Naples. The Sicilian 
oranges, from Palermo and Messina, are stored for summer 
use, thus not coming in competition with the fruit of our 
own country. 

As an evidence of the quantity of fruit now used it may 
be stated that the value of Green and Dried Fruit Impor- 
tations, including nuts, as reported at the Custom 
House at the end of the third week ( f June 1889, amount- 
ed in round figures, to the sum of $217,000. 

PEI7IT AND TEMPEBANCE. 

Many persons recognize only one kind of Intemperance, 
oamely, indulgence in alcoholic stimulants. In fact, in- 
temperance in the use of food, more often than otherwise, 
precedes indulgence in the use of liquor. Whip the di- 
gestive organs into excessive activity by eating rich viands, 
condiments and spices, and after awhile they refuse to act 
except wh'en spurred by stimulants. A morbid appetite 
is thus formed and in the struggle between appetite and 
principle, the weak will yields the struggle. 



INTRODUCTION. SI 

It seems unnecessary to review the powerful arguments 
on this point which able writers have so often placed before 
the public, but wives and mothers cannot hear these les- 
sons too frequently. "When housekeepers leara that un- 
due exhilaration is always followed by corresponding de- 
pression and that food and drink which tend t'^ inflame 
or excite, create a thirst for beer, wine, or brandy, they 
will forever dispense with highly spiced dishes. 

Dr. J. C. Jackson, a man of great experience in tieating 
the intemperate, writes these startling words : 

"Drunkards ai-e not made in salcions, they are simply 
graduated there. Thev take their initiation in their 
homes around their own tables. The father and mother 
lay in themselves the foundation and carry over to their 
cliildi-en a constitutional liking for stimulants. This 
liking existing in the child as a tendency is developed 
under the table arrangements into an actual appetite. So 
from the eating of stimulating and exciting foods affecting 
the nerves of the stomach, arises an irritable condition o£ 
the nerves of nutrition and, by reflex action, of the nerves 
of taste, till there is awakened a longing for something to 
overcome the feeling of exhaustion which, where stimu- 
lants are not in use, la always noticeable and sometimes im- 
perious. " 

In the paper read before the British Association by C. 
V. G. Napier, F. G. S. that scientist took strong ground in 
regard to a farinaceous and fruit diet for the intemperate. 
He asserts that persons using such food without meats 
"feel no inclination for alcoholic liquors. I have noticed 
that a taste for spicy condiments, butcher's meat and alco- 
holic liquors is associated, and that a taste for plain-fla- 
vored vegetables, fats and oils, is likewise associated, I 
have known persons in the habit of taking alcoholic stim- 
ulants daily, when eating meat, who find they must give 
them up entirely when living without meats, their action 



22 FRUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

under those circumstances being too irritating to be en- 
dured without great inconvenience." 

One great help to the cause of temperance will doubt- 
less be in the growing use of unfermented grape juice. 
It quenches the thirst and imparts buoyancy and strength 
without stimulation. It is nature's own wine aad the 
more men use the natural production of the "herb bearing 
seed and the tree producing fruit," the better for man- 
kind. 

It is believed by those who have carefully studied the 
subject that " not more than one in ten who diink do so 
solely because they relish liquors." Often they are in- 
temperate through unfortunate environments; sometimes 
through absolute hunger for nourishing food. There is a 
gnawing sensation in the stomach which can at once be 
stifled by a dram. Could the man have a good savory 
meal he would forjjet the Uquor, since his craving would 
be satisfied in the oolj' natural and wholesome way. 

It follows that to know how to prepare good food, good 
in every sense and to every sense, is to know how to re- 
duce dyspepeia to a minimum and to convert the incipi- 
ent drunkard into a sober, weU nourished member of so- 
ciety. 

THE CULTURE AND PKESERVATION OF FRUIT BY WOMEN. 

TVith every passing year the struggle for existence 
among workers is growing more sharp and doubtful. In 
our own country the histoiy of pour in cities is a sicken- 
ing blot upon Christian Civilization. Dragging out lives 
- of destitution and horror, toiling with the needle in miser- 
able unventilated rooms, these poor creatures dumbly plead 
for opportunities for more than an animal existence. 

Many of them in this life are beyond and below such 



iNTKObUCflON. 23 

help as the cultivation and preservation of fruit could 
offer; others have neither the money nor the desire for anj' 
other -way of living than that of herding together iu mass- 
es ; but a certain percentage of the strongest and ablest 
could, once established in the country, support themselves 
by such avocations. 

For instance, a thrifty woman rents or buytt half an 
acre of land on which she plants half an acre of currants. 
They would require after that to be ploughed once a year 
and she would need help to pick tbem. If there is a 
glut in.the market there is jelly or jam to be made and 
pure currant jelly is always in demand. Later on, 
spiced currants would find a ready sale. And this is only 
one of tho.se small fruits which a woman can cultivate with 
far less expenditure of vitality than she is forced to spend 
in the use of the needle. 

To take care of fruit is fatiguing work but what work is 
not? With 80,000 superfluous women in one state alone, 
not aU, but many of them, self-supportiag, it is not to be 
supposed they shall find work that is not laborious. That 
is not the question. It is. How shall women be able to se- 
cure the land and learn how to work it successfully? To 
the thrifty and energetic alone will it be possible to find 
the way, and their number will be so limited by the na- 
ture of things that there can be no danger their ranks? 
shall be overcrowded. 

Fruit culture by women is not a chimera. It has been 
successfully tried again and again. It does not pre-suppose 
that the culturist is compelled to do all the hard work with 
her own hands any more than that the farmer must do 
all his work without help. 

As an example of what has been accomplished by one 



24 FRUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

delicately nurtured and physically weak woman it is well 
to recall the life and labors of Miss M. F. Austin, former- 
ly a teacher in Nantucket and San Francisco, afterward a 
fruit-grower in Fresno County, California. There she 
purchased one hundred acres of land which she planted 
to vineyards and orchards of various kinds of fruit. "As- 
sociating herself in a co-operative home with two other 
teachers of kindred tastes,'' writes a friend after her 
death, "this blessed trinity remained unbroken for twenty 
years. In 1886, 6,000 boxes of raisins were raised, dried 
and packed and forty-five tons of apricots, fresh and dried, 
sent to market." 

Through attention to business, intelligence and pains- 
taking care these pioneer women made for themselves a 
beautiful home, where books, mupic and friends shed a 
grace over every function of life. Very lately two young 
women from Illinois have gone to Pasadena, Cal., and es- 
tabUshed a Woman's Fruit Preserving Union. They con- 
duct the business themselves and have been successful, 
shipping goods to several of the large eastern cities. 

While perhaps no more marked instance of fruit grow- 
ing by women can be noted at present, it is true that num- 
bers have been successful on a smaller scale. Others 
have confined themselves to the mailing of jelly, jam, and 
mrj-malade. One, residing in Brooklyn, N. Y., keeps a 
standing adverfasement all the year round in a daily pa- 
per, offering home-made fruit preparations, which command 
a good sale and a large price. Her articles, it need hard- 
ly be stated, are admirably prepared- and attractive to the 
eye. 

Many others secure an income through the various 
Women's Exchanges which have come into vogue all over 



FRUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 35 

the country. By this means they are save d from publici 
ty, which so many dread, and from the care of finding a 
market, at a cost of five per cent on all sales. It remains 
for some enterprising woman to start Fruit Exchanges 
where only this toothsome contribution to the dietary shall 
be handled, including the unfermented pure juice of the 
grape. 



APPLES. 37 



RECIPES. 



THE APPLE. 



"Bed and russet and yellow 
Lying there in a heap. 

Pippins rounded and mellow. 

Greening's for winter's keep. 

Appl3s, scarlet and golden. 

Apples, juicy and tart-^'' 



Of all the fruits of the earth none can vie with the apple 
in point of usefulness to the inhabitants of the North 
Temperate Zone. It may truthf'.iUy be said thnt the ap- 
ple holds the same relation to fruit that wheat holds to 
grains. Prepared in one form or another, the palate 
never wearies of the dishes which grow out of it as a basis 
or ingredient. 

The apple tree is indigenous to the North as the orange 
is to the South. Travelers vie with each other in praising 
the beauty of the latter during the season of bloom, but 
there can hardly be seen upon all the round earth a fairer 
sight than an orchard in JVIay-time. There is a piquant 
and peculiar richness in the fragrance, a hardy loveliness 
of bud and blossom upon the gnarled and ragged stems 
which the smoother and tamer orange misses. Each has 
its own beauty and its own usefulness. Yet are we apt 
to under-rate that which is common, in favor of its distant 



38 PKUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

cousins. Those poets who see a charm in common things 
have Sling of its beauty. Bryant's " Planting of the Apple 
Tree," is one of his best efforts. 

This tree, so slow and hardy in its growth will, under 
favorable conditions, witness the progress and decay of two 
centuries. It flourishes best in the United States in a 
belt running from the Eastern States to the West. Be- 
ginning to ripen in June, the fresh fruit can be kept, with 
proper care, to the succeeding June. The evaporated ap- 
ple, carefully cooked, can hai-dly be distinguibhed from the 
fresh fruit, in place of which it can be used in the follow- 
ing recipes. Beloved of the robin and the bee, the small 
boy and the thrifty cook, the apple provides a large store 
of the winter's food and the summer's pleasure. 

It is curious to observe that the wild crab-apple furnish- 
es all the stock from which the nearly 1200 cultivated va- 
rieties have sprung. It was propagated by the Komans, 
who however, knew little of the value of the fruit as now 
developed by careful nurtiire. 

Uncooked apples for eating ought to be perfectly ripe 
and only a very thin peeling should be removed. The 
more nutritious and aromatic portion of this fruit lies 
nearest the surface, hence apples baked or stewed in their 
skins have a more delicious taste and quality than when 
pared. To one who has a realization of health and the 
sweetness of simple foods, there is nothing better than a 
juicy Pound Sweeting, Baldwin, Russet, or Spitzenberg, 
out of which, with good, white-wheat bread and butter, a 
palatable luncheon may always be obtained. Choaiists 
tell us that sugar, tannic acid, malic acid, albumen, glu- 
ten, pectin, fibrin, starch, traces of free salts and water, 
make up the bulk of apples, but rosy-cheeked, hardy chil- 
dren getting half their living from the products of the or- 
chard, are practical examples of their value. 



APPLES. 29 

Physiologists assert that apples ought to precede the 
meal, not follow it, and that they r.eed to be well masti- 
cated and insalivated. 

Apples and Cream. — Pare and slice fresh, mellow, sweet 
apples antl pour over them sweet cream. Dust very lightly 
with sugar and serve for a breakfast dish with or before the 
cooked grains. 

Apples and Bread and Milk.— For this dish use per- 
fectly ripe, mellow sweet apples. Pare and slice thin the 
uncooked apple into a bowl of rich milk and bread. For 
luncheon it is unrivalled. If preferred, bake the apples, un- 
peeled, in a slow oven, till soft. Then slice the fruit into 
the bread and milk. 

Apples Stewed, No. 1. — Take firiu, sound sweet apples 
of the same size, cut out the blossom endw and siinuier 
slowly in a little cold water, an hour, or till they are 
soft. Lift them out entire, sweeten the juice, if at ail, very 
little, flavor with lemon peel if any is needed, and serve 
cold with their syrup. 

Apples Stewed, No. 2. — Wash, peel and core nice tart 
apples and stew in a little water till soft. Mash through a 
colander or coarse sieve, sweeten to taste and serve. A tri- 
fle of salt accentuates the flavor. 

Apples Stewed, No. 3. — Peel, core and quarter the af - 
pies, dropping them into cold water to pervent discolora- 
tion. Make a sjrup of sugar and water, the sweetness pro- 
portioned to the acidity of the apples, and let it coiue to a 
boil. Drop in the quarters, cover and cook till they are 
tender. Skim them out carefully and if the juice is very 
thin boil a little longer, then pour over the apples in the 
dish in which they are to be served. Season with nutmeg, 
cinnamon or lemon peel, or not at all. 



30 PBUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

Apples Stewed, Ifo. 4.— Prepare as in No. 3. and cook 
the fruit in a pudding disli in the oven. Balie slowly and 
the fruit will turn a Hoh, deep red. They must he kept 
covered. 

Apples Stewed, So. 5.— Boil one gallon of sweet new 
cider till it is reduced one half, then throw in some quar- 
tered apples with sufficient sugar to sweeton them. Let 
them boil slowly till the fruit is tender, being careful that it 
does not scorch and that the quarters do not break inpieoes. 
It is a rich dish. 

Apple Sauce with Boiled Cider, No. 6.- Peel and 
core a peck of sweet apples and put in a preserving kettle 
with sufficient sweet cider to cover them. Cut fine four 
quinces and add to the apples. Boil for four hours, skim- 
ing often and adding a pound of sugar an hour before tak- 
ing from the range. Stir often to prevent browning. 

Apples Stewed, No. 7.— Pare and core Jarge tiirt ap- 
ples, fill the centers with sugar and bits of butter, and ar- 
range in an earthen pudding dish and pour around them 
half a cup of hot water. Bake till soft, then mash them 
with a wooden spoon and sweeten and flavor to the taste. 

Apples and Quinces.— Pare, core, slice and stew until 
soft, lialf a dozen quinces, then add four or five times as 
many tart apples prepared for stewing. Simmer till soft, 
sweeten and press through a colander. Quince greatly im- 
proves the flavor. 

Apples and Raisins. —Wash, seed, and steep the rais- 
ins till they begin to be tender; then add pared, cored and 
quartered apples and stew until they begin to be soft. 
Sweeten to taste and if liked, flavor with lemon peel. There 
should be three times as many apples as raisins. Evapora- 
ted apples soaked over night and cooked with raisins are 
nearly as good as fresh. 



APPLES. 31 

Apples Frosted.— Peel, core and steam till tender, a 
plate of apples with sugar. Beat the white of an egg to a 
froth, adding two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and when stiff 
like icing, frost the apples and brown slightly in the oven. 

Apple G-reen-Caps.— (The Cook's Guide). Take sound 
apples, core without breaking and rub with cloth. Line a 
preserving pan with grape-vine leaves, place in the apples, 
cover with more leaves and cold water. Shut the lid, place 
an iron weight on it and simmer till the apples are cooked 
but whole. Remove and drain, smear each with the beat- 
en white of an egg and dredge thickly with powdered su- 
gar. Place them on a plate in the oven till frosted and 
sparkUng. Arrange on a flat dish and place around them 
any pretty bright leaves. 

Apples Baked, !No. 1 — Peel and core large sour apples 
and sUce them into a granite or crockery dish, spriniiling 
each layer with sufficient sugar to sweeten, with a dust of 
cinnamon or nutmeg. Add half a teacup of water to every 
quart of fruit, cover the dish with a plate, and bake slowly 
three hours. Let the apples cool in the same dish, and 
turnit oat soUd, Uke jelly, upon the plate in vhioh it is to be 
served. 

Apples Baked, No. 3.— "Wash either sweet or sonr ap- 
ples, selecting those of the same size and variety, and bake 
in amoderate oven till they are entirely soft, turning the dish 
from time to time, so that they will cook evenly. If they 
are soft, pour about them a little hot water when they are 
set in the oven. If sour, use more water and either sprinkle 
sugar into it or dig out the core and fill the aperture with 
sugar. They should not be baked in tin. The j nice makes 
a rich syrup which should be poured over the fruit after 
it is lifted into the dish in which it is served. 

Baked Apples, No. 3.— Take large tart apples of a uni- 
form size, wash, core and place side by side in a baking- 
dish. Fill each cavity with the best brown sugar, pour a 
cupful of hot water in the pan and bake in a warm oven. 



33 FKUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

When thoroughly done remove each into a flat dish with 
the exception of the softest one of all, and with ib leave the 
juice. Bemove the skin of this and with a silver fork and 
spoon mash into pulp, stirring it into the juice and adding 
a dash of cinnamon or nutmeg, one teaspoontul of butter 
and a pinch of salt. Pour this over the apples in the dish 
in which they are to be served. If the pulp is not sweet 
enough add sugar to taste. When cold it makes a delicious 
jelly, and the whole dish is unlike the usual dry baked ap- 
ples which pass under that name. The addition of sweet 
cream makes the apples a perfect fruit. 

Apples Baked, 'So. 4c. — Peel and core, filling the aper. 
tures with seeded raisins, bits of citron and sugar and dnst 
of lemon peel. Bake in a slow oven after brushing the ap- 
ples with sweetened water and sprinkling them with fine 
bread crumbs browned in butter. Serve with cream. 

Apple Float.— Peel and grate firm, ripe tart apples, and 
chill them while beating the whites of four eggs to a stiff 
froth, adding three tablespoonfuls of sugar at the same 
time. Flavor the apples with lemon and stir into the beat- 
en egg. Again, stew the apples and strain, then mix with 
the sweetened and beaten whites, using three or four eggs 
to one quart of stewed apples. Flavor with either orange 
or lemon. 

Apples and Cream.— Grate apples enough to make a 
pint of pulp and mix with a custard made with six eggs to 
a quart of milk. Serve with whipped cream. 

Apple Shape.— Take a pound of sugar to a half pint of 
water; boil and tkim; add one pound of pared apples, qaart 
ered, and boil until tender and clear. Then add the juice 
of two lemons and the yellow rind (grated) of one of them, 
press through a sieve, together with half a box of gelatine; 
previously disolved. Stir until cool. Separate four eggs, 
beat whites to a stiff froth and mix it with the fruit syrup 
when sufQciently thickened and cool in a mould. The yolks 
of the egg make the sauce. 



APPLES. 33 

Apple Compote, Grennan Style.— (Mrs. Bayard Tay- 
lor). Peel apples and remove the core so that the a,pple 
will remain whole and soak theip a few minutes in cold wa- 
ter tinctured with lemon juice to prevent discoloration. 
Pill the cavities with jelly or sweet marmalade. Place 
them in a stewing pan and pour around them water enough 
to nearly reach the fillings. Add to the water half a pound 
of suarai and the thin peel of half a lemon. Cover tight and 
boil till tender. Remove each apple carefully into a glass 
dish and pour over them a few spoonfuls of the liquor. 
Add a little sugar to the rest of the juice and boil to a jelly 
with which to garnish the apples. 

Apple Pie, No. 1. — Line a de*^p pie-plate withpasteand 
and heap it high with sliced tart apples cut thin. Over the 
layers scatter aDout four tablespoonfuls of sugar, sm^all 
bits of butter and flavoring of cinnamon or nutmeg. Oat 
a long narrow strip to press around the edge of the crust 
and over this press the upper crust to bind the two together. 
Prick the top with a fork or before putting it in place out 
a small cross in the center. This is the usual way of 
making a sliced apple pie, but it is better to put sugar and 
spices at the bottom before slicingia the apples. Bake for- 
ty minutes. 

Apple Pie, No. 2. — Prepare apples and paste and heap 
high the fruit In the crust without seasoning. As soon as 
it is done take the j ie from the oven, ijlip a knife between 
the crusts at the edge and carefully invert the top. Then 
with a silver knife and fork mash the steaming apple and 
add sugar, a trifle of lemon or cinnamon and a teaspoon- 
ful of butter. A couple of tablespoonfuls of thick sweet 
cream are a great addition, but it is good without. Serve 
warm. 

Apple Pie, No.4.— Take sour apples and peel, core, stew, 
sugar and strain them as for apple sauce; then bake between 
two crusts. 

Apple Pie, No. 5.— (Mrs. Potter).— Acupfuland ahalf 



34 FRUI rs AND HO V TO USE THEM. 

of thick sour milk, half a cupful of sour creatn or a dessert 
spoonful of butter, half a teaspoonful of soda, a piach 
of salt and flour enough to make a stiff dou^h, will make 
crust enough for three or four pies. LinH the plates with 
tho paste and before filling with sliced apples put into each 
plate two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one of flour and whatever 
spice is desired. Tiioroughly mix thaaeaad spread evenly 
over the bottom crust. After the plates are filled with 
apples add one tablespoonf ul of molasses. 

Into the upper crust roll thin shavings of butter sprlnk^ 
led with flour, slash tiny h:)les for the steain to escape, cov- 
er the pies, wetting the edges anrl pressing them closely to- 
gether. Just before baking dash cold water over top crust, 
enough to tiiroughly wst the flour. Bake slowly three- 
fourths of im hour. When done, with a tiny nosed toy-tea- 
pot pour into the pie, tiirough one of the slashes in the 
crust, two tablespoonfuls of boiling water. 

By stewing sugar aaJ fljur bjlow tiie apple instead of 
above it, there is less danger of escaping juice and the ap- 
ple is thoroughly cooked and deliciously flavored and jellied 
with the spicy thickened syrup boiling up through it. 

Apple and Pineapple Pie.— Peel and core apples and 
divide them into eighths, with which fill a pie plate lined 
with paste. Meantime take three tablespoonfuls of grated 
pineapple, one tablespoonful of water, and three of sugar, 
and simmer together till the fruit looks clear. When the 
apple pie is taken from tlie ovt-n remove the top, spread 
over the apple with the pineapple, replace tht- cover and 
set the pie away to cool before it is served. The seasoned 
pineapple will sweeten the apple. 

Apple Custard Pie, No. 1.— Peel and grate sweet ap- 
ples enough to fill a large cup and pour over it enough hot 
milk to nearly fill, with the addition of the apples, a. deep 
piedish lined with paste. Beat it well, add one tablespoon- 
ful of sugar and one well-bsaten egg. Flavor either with 
extract of lemon or half a teaspoonful of cinnamon or gin- 
geraccording to taste. Bake with one crust. 



APPLES. 35 

Apple Custard Ple.No 2.— (Mm Smith). Line a pie 
plate with paste and half fill it with thinly sliced apples. 
Over them pour a custard made with three eggs to a pint 
of milk. Sweeten and season to taste. Bake in a moderate 



Apple Custard Pie, No 3.— Put through a colander 
one pint of stewed apples and stir into it three eggs, 
yolks and whites beaten together, half a teacup of rich 
sweet milk and a tablespoonful of warmed butter. Flavor 
with lemon or vanilla. Bake as in the preceding recipes, 
without an upper crust, 

Apple Meringue Pie,— Prepare the apple as in the 
receipe above and mix with it the beaten yolks of three 
eggs and sugar to taste. Bake in a deep pie dish lined 
with paste and when done draw to edge of the oven and 
spread over the top the well-beaten whites of three eggs, 
with as many tablegpoonfuls of sugar. Return to the oven 
a few minutes to brown. 

Apple Turnovers, No 1.— Make paste as for pies ex- 
cept a little less short, as it will absorb some fat, and roll 
out thin, about the size of a small dessert plate. Have ready 
nice, tart apple sauce seasoned to taste and drained of its 
juice and pile upcn half the paste. Folii the other half 
over this, wet the edges and press them together so that no 
fruit may escape. Drop them, one at a time into hot fat or 
drippings and fry brown. First, di-op in a piece of bread 
and see if the fat is the right temperature. Dust with 
powdered sugar and serve warm or cold. They are more 
wholesome baked. Any kind of stewed fruit may be used 
in place of apple. 

Apple Turnovers, No 2.— (.Miss Parloa.) Mix one pint 
of flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, two level teaspoon tuls 
of baking powder and three tablespoonf dIs of sugar. Bub 
this mixture through asieve and then rub into it three table- 
spoo)ifuls of butter. Now beat an egg till light and add to 



36 FEUirs AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

it a grenerous half cupful of milk. Stir this liquid into the 
dry ingredients. Sprinkle the moulding board with flour 
and roll the dough down to the thickness of a fourth of an 
inch. Cut this dough into cakes the size of a saucer. 

Put two tablespoonfuls of stewed, sweetened and seasoned 
apples on each piece of dough, fold over and roll up, pinch- 
ing the edges together. Have on the ('.re a kettle contain- 
ing hot fat five or six inches deep. When the fat begins to 
smoke put in a few turnovers and cook for eight minutes. 
Drain on brown paper. The apple, used in turnovers, may 
be flavored with either cinnamon or nutmeg. 

Apple Pan Dowdy.— In the bottom of a deep baking- 
dish lay thin slices of buttered bread and let them extend 
up the sides. Fill in a layer of thin sliced apples, grate 
over nutmeg or sprinkle with cinnamon and turn over a 
cup of brown sugar melted in half as much hot water. 
Finish the top with another layer of buttered bread; 
cover it with an old plate and bake slowly an hour and a 
half. Invert it on a platter a-nd serve hot with liquid sauce 
or crr-am. 

Apples Coddled.— Peel and coje sour apples and ar- 
range them in an earthern or porcelain dish low enough 
to allow them to be covered. Pill each cavity with sugar 
and dredge sugar over them. Pour in a cup of hot water, 
cover closely and simmer in the oven or on the back of the 
range till the apples are soft. Lift them up without break- 
ing, dust nutmeg into the syrup and pour over them in the 
dish in which they are to be served. 

Evaporated Apple Pie.— Soak the apple over night 
and steam on the hack of the stove till solt but unbroken. 
Line a pie-plate with paste and on it sprinke one half a 
cup of sugar. Arrange the sliced apple over this_quite 
thickly, dust with nutmeg or add a little lemon juice, dot 
with bits of butter, cover with a crust and bake. 

Apple Dumplings, No 1.— (Mrs. Campbell). Make a 



APPLES. 37 

biiieiiit crust or potato crust by addiiiff to six large pota- 
toes, boiled and mashed, one cup of sifted flour and a tea- 
spoonful of cold water. Dredge the board with flour and 
roll out, leaving the middle portion thicker than the edges. 
Fill with apples peeled and quartered and gather the edges 
of the paste over them. Then scald a canton flannel pud- 
ding cloth three-fourths of a yard square, in boiling water. 
Wring it out, dredge it with flour and lay the pudding in 
it. Qatlier up the cloth, leaving room for the dumpling to 
swell and tie it very tightly. Boil for three hours. In 
turning out, press the water from the ends of the cloth, un- 
tie the bag and turn it away from the dumpling. Then in- 
vert a hot platter over it, turn the whole over again and 
serve at once. Steamed puddings or those boiled in a 
tightly covered tin pail are better than boiled dumplings, 
but some tastes cannot forego these old favorites. Apri- 
cots, peaches, plums, or blueberries, are good cooked in 
the same way. 

For sauce to eat with this and any other pudding, cream 
together half a cup of butter and a cup of sugar, beating 
till both are white. Set the bowl in a pan of water and let 
it melt slowly. Just before serving, stir in slowly half a 
cup of hot water and nutmeg or any flavor desired. 

Apple Dumplings, No. 2— (Mrs. Rorer). Into one 
quart of flour, rub a small half teacup of butter, a pinch of 
salt and two heaping teaspoonfuls of baking-powder; mix 
thoroughly and wet with one cupful of milk or leps, even, 
enough to make a soft dough, according to the strength of 
the flour. Roll it out half an inch thick and out out a 
round, three or four inches in diameter, according to the 
size of the apples. Put a pared and cored apple in the 
center of each circle of dough, fill the core aperture with 
sugar and a trifle of cinnamon, and carefully bring up the 
dough on either side and join together with a little pres- 
sure. Tie each in a flavored cloth and plunge in briskly 
boiling water. They muet be kfept boiling half an hour. 
If steamed, which is the better way, they should be cooked 
a little longer, ten or fifteen minutes. Serve at once, as 



38 FRUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

all steanaed or boiled paddings bscoine hard by stand- 
ing. Serve with either hard or liquid sauce or with sweet- 
ened cream or hot molasses and a little butter. Peach 
dumplings are made precisely in the same way. 

Apple Dumplings, (baked), No. 3.— Rub one large 
teaspoonful of butter into one pint of flour, sift in two tea 
spoonfuls of baking-powder, mix with three-quarts of a 
cup of milk and roll out one -fourth of an inch thick. Cut 
in rounds with a large cutter and into each circle put a 
tart apple, paved, CDred and quartered. Pinch the dough 
together and place them, smooth side up oii a buttered 
plate. Bake or steam from half to three-fourths of an 
hour. Serve with liquid sauce or sweetened cream. 

Apple Tarts.— Roll thin strips of pie pastry and with a 
circular cookie cutter, make three times as many circles as 
are wauted. With a smaller shd,pe cut out the center of 
two thirds of these and pile them on the remainder so that 
the tarts will have one thickness in the middle and three 
on the edge Bake and pile each cavity with rich apple 
sauce with a teaspoonful of whipped cream upon tliat. 
A ny stemmed fruit jam or jelly may be used instead of 
apples. 

Apple Pudding, No. 1.— Pare and shoe six medium 
tart apples and stew in a little water till soft enough to 
mash. Into the sauo stir one large tablespoonful of but- 
ter, three of sugar and the grated yelloiv rind and juice of 
one lemon. Into two cupfuls of grated bread-crumbs stir 
two tablespoonfuls of flour and mix with the apples and 
lastly mix in two well-beaten eggs. Bake forty minutes in 
a buttered pudding dish and serve with hard sauce. If it 
is too thick when niixe-l, add a trifle of water. 

Apple Pudding, No. 2.— Peel, core and chip five, six 
or eight sonr apples and roll stale bread crumbs very fine. 
In a buttered pudding-dish strew a thin layer of bread- 
crumbs, then of apple and again of crumbs till the digh is 



APPLES. 89 

full, having crumbs at the top. Over one cupful of good 
brown sugar and a rounded tablespoonful of butter, pour 
one cupful of hot water. Season with nutmeg, cinnamon 
or lemon-peel and pour over the crumbs and apples. Cov- 
er the pudding-dish, (one holding two quarts), with an in- 
verted plate, and let the crumbs soak half an hour. Bake 
forty minutes. This makes a good plain pudding with or 
without sauce. 

Apple Pudding', No. 3.— Prepare sour apples as in. No. 
3, and mix with six large tablespoonfuls of grated bread- 
crumbs, three eggs, yolks and whites beaten together, two- 
thirds of a cup of sugar, half a cup of Zante currants, the 
same quantity of seeded raisins, one heaping tablespoonful 
of butter, three of flour, cinnaiuon or lemon-peel to taste 
and half a cupful of fruit juice of any kind or of dissolved 
currant jelly. Stir in three tablespoonfuls of flour or enough 
for a thin batter and one dessert-spoonful of baking-pow- 
der. Steam in a mould or boil in a tin bucket three hours. 

Apple and Rice Pudding, No. 4.— (Good Health) 
Steam one cupful of rice till it is soft, with which line a but- 
tered pudding dish both on the sides and bottom, leaving 
a portiop of rice for the top. Fill the space with thinly 
sliced or chopped tart apples and finish with the remainder 
of clie rioe Put the dish in a steamer and steam till the 
apples are found to be tender by running a forK into then. 
Set it away to cool and invert the dish so that the puddiag 
will come out entire. Sei-ve with sweetened cream, thiu 
custard or fruit ^auce, or garnish it with bits of apple 
jellyand pour cream over the whoL\ 

Apple and Klce Pudding, No. 5.— Boil a cupful of 
rice in twice as much water for twenty minutes, then spread 
it on a buttered pudding cloth. In the center of this place 
two quarts of apples, peeled and cut in eighths, then tie up 
the ends and corners tight and plunge in a kettle of boiling 
water. Cook for an hour never allowing the water to 
Ci^ase boil'ns; and serve with hot sauce. 



40 FKUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

Apple and Bread Pudding, No. 6. - Dip thin slices 
of stale bread in cold water and then slightly butter them. 
Put a layer of bread on the bottom of a buttered pudding 
dish, then a thick layer cf sliced sour apples, sweetened to 
taste and seasoned with a sprinkling of oinna-mon. Hhve 
another lay nr of bread, then one of apples. Turn over a few 
tablespoonf uls of water, cover with an old plate and bake in 
a moderate oven two hours. Serve warm with cream and 
sugar or liquid sauce. A richer pudding may be made 
with pouring over the pudding, in place of water, a c us- 
tard made with one egg, half a cup of milk and one table- 
spoonful of sugar. 

Apple Pudding, No. 7. —Invert an old teacup in a two 
quart pudding-dish, then fill the dish nearly to the top with 
sliced tart and juicy apples. For the crust take two cupfuls 
of flour and from two-thirds to a cupful of cold water, ac- 
cording to the strength of the flour. Stir with a spoon, 
add two tablespoonf uls of melted drippings or butter and 
sift in at the last two full teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 
Roll with as little handling as possible to the size of the top 
of the pudding-dish, cut a cross through the center and 
pi ess firmly around the edges. Bake half an hour in a hot 
oven. Cut in sections and invert the crust on dessert plate . 
Lift out the tea-cup which will be found filled with juice 
leaving the crust light and dry. Heap on the crust the 
apples and juice and seree with cream and suofar or any 
favorite liquid sauce. It is a delicious substitute for apple 
pie. A variety of th's pudding is made by adding a cup of 
sugar to the crust. 

Apple Batter Pudding, No 8.— Make a batter of half 
a pound of flour and a scant pint of milk, with which, 
stir the beaten yolks of three eggs and a large teaspoouf ul 
of baking-powder. In a shallow dish filled an inch and a 
half deep with sliced and seasoned tart apples, pour over 
the mixed batter and bake from thirty to forty minutes. 
Pour over the crust the meringue made of the beatnn whii es, 
and three tablespoonf uls of sugar, and set in the oven to 
brown lightly. 



APPLES. 41 

Some prefer to mix the ohoppsd apples with the batter 
before baking. 

Apple Pudding-, No 9.— Cook in a farina kettle two 
quarts of rich milk with a pint of yellow flint coarse Indiaa 
meal till it thickens. Take from the fire, stir in an additional 
quart of cold milk, two-thirds of a cupful of sugar, two table- 
spoonfuls of white flour, and lastly, one quart of finely 
chopped tart apples and twospoonfuls of cinnamon. Pour 
into a deep pudding dish and bake slowly. Stir often dur- 
ing the first hour, then bake two hours longer. It is best 
to cook it in a shallow pan of water. Eat with or without 
liquid sauce. 

Apple Almond Pudding, Xo lO.— (The Cook). Peel 
and grate fine, eight or nine tart apples; blanch and pound 
fine half a pound of sweet almonds; mix the almonds with 
the grated apples. Add a little nutmeg, lemon-rind, half a 
teaspoonful of butter and sweeten to taste. When all these 
ingredients are thoroughly mixsd together, add to them 
four well beaten eggs. Butter well a deep dish and place 
the mixture in it. Put in a good oven, bake until quite 
brown on both top and bottom. As soon as done turn it 
out on a platter and eat hot with lemon sauce. It may be 
preferred cold. 

Apple and Tapioca, No ll.~Soak a teacupful of 
tapioca in four cups of water for three hours, stir into it 
two large spoonfuls of sugar, and keep it in a warm place. 
IMll a two quart pudding dish three-fourths full of peeled 
and quartered apples. Pour over the tapioca, which must 
have been kept on the back of the stove, and bake in a 
moderate oven one hour. Serve with any favorite liquid 
sauce or with sweetened cream. Peel and core the apples 
and cook them whole, if preferred. 

Apple Manloca Pudding-, No 17. -Mix four table- 
spoonfuls of manioca with one quart of water, in a farina 
kettle, beat until it thickens. When it cools stir in two eggs 



42 PEUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

beaten together and one tablespoonf ul of butter, and sweet- 
en to taste. In the bottom of a pudding dish place a layer 
of stewed and sweetened eighths of apples, flavor with 
lemon, pour over the manioea and bake. 

Sweet Apple Pudding, No 12, -(Dr. Dodds). 

3 quarts new milk. . 

1 quart sweet apple, finely chopped. 

J cup sugar. 

1 pint (nearly), coarse corn meal. 

Single handful white flour. 

Time — three to four hiours, slow oven. 
Pare, core and slice the sweet apples, and chop them fine, 
having a full quart in all. Then put into a stone or earthen 
crock, or a farina-kettle, two quarts of the milk; if newmilk 
cannot be had, add a cup of cream to the skimmed. Set 
it on the stove, and bring just to a boil: if heated in a crock, 
see that the milk does not Boorch in the least. Th=n stir in 
the corn meal, and beat very thoroughly to remove lumps. 
The batter, when the mt-al has had time to swell, should be 
almost too thick to pour, or about the consistency of good 
corn mush. Let the mixture again come to a boil, and 
cook, stirring five to seven minutes; then I'emove from the 
fire, and add the quart of cold milk: this will make the 
batter thin enough to pour readily. N.j w stir in the apples, 
sugar and flour, and beat well. If the mixing has been 
done in a crock, set it directly into the oven ; if in a farina 
kettle, pour the batter into a deep pudding-dish, and set ii. 
in the oven within a dripping-pan containing a pint or 
more of boiling water. Bake slowly, stirring several time^ 
the first hour; the pudding should cook from three to four 
hours in all, and be moderately browned on top when 
done. 

This excellent dessert is served cold or warm (not hot), 
and without a dressing; though the juices of certain fruits, 
as raspberries, cherries, etc., make a very good sauce for it. 
In the mixing, molasses or syrup may be used instead of 



APPLES. 4S 

sugar; but the pudding is less delicate to the taste. And 
•when sweet apples are not to be had, those of a mild but 
rich sub-aeid ilavor can be substituted. 

Grated Apple Pudding, No. 13.— (Dr. Dodds). 

2 cups sour cream — or part sour milk. 

3 cups grated (or scraped) apples, rather tart. 

2 cups sifted white flour. 

1 tablespoonful fine corn meal. 

3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in boiling water. 

3 eggs, yolks and whites separate. 

Time — 40 to 50 minutes, slow oven. 
Beat the yolks, whip the sugar into them, add the cream, 
apples, meal and flour, and stir well; then add the whites 
cut to a stiff froth, and also the dissolved soda, and beat 
thoroughly. Pour into a shallow pan, well oiled, and place 
immediately in a very moderate oven; or a better way is to 
set the dish in a dripping-pan containing boiling water. 
Bake from forty to fifty minutes. The pudding should not 
be more than an inch and a half or two inches thick when 
done; and it should be delicately browned, top and bot- 
tom. 

Apple Pudding, No. 14:. — Peel, core and stew whole 
in a very little water enough apples of a iiniform size to fill 
the bottom of a flat pudding-d'sh, tart apples are best. 
Enough sugar should be sprinkled over them just before 
they are tender to season, perhaps two or three t;" blespoon- 
fuls. Take them out of the stew-pan without breaking 
them and arrange them in the pudding-dish. Make a 
custard of a pint of milk and the yolKs of three egg-i by 
heating the milk and very gradually pouring on the yolks, 
a spoonful at a time, to prevent thw curdling of the eggs. 
A heaping tablespoonful of sugar should be beaten with 
every yolk. Fill the coreapertures with jam, jelly, marma- 
lade or preserves of any kind, or with stoned and chopped 
raisins, or dates; pour over the whole the custard and bake 
till it is set, about a quar'er of an hour. Cover the top 



44 PEUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

■with the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth with as many 
tablespoonfuis of powdered sugar and set back in the oven 
for three minutes to brown. Chill on the ice before serv- 
ing. 

Apple Pudding, No 15. — Beat two eggs light, stir in a 
pint of milk, flour enough for a moderately tliick batter 
and a heaping teaspoonful of baking-powder, then mix in 
one pint of tart chopped apples. Boil in a pudding mould 
or covered tin pail and serve with hard sauce, or with 
liquid sauce flavored with jelly. 

Apple (Marlborougli) Pudding-, No 16.— Beat light 
theyolkf* of six eggs, gradually beating in two cups of sugar, 
stir in one quart of milk and a teaspoonful of vanilla or 
lemon flavoring. Take a pint of plain, unsweetened apple 
saace in which, while warm, a tablespoonful of butter has 
been melted, mix with the custard, pour in a pudding-dish 
and bake in a quick oven from thirty to forly minutes. 
Beat the six whites of eggs till they are very stiff, gradually 
adding six tablespoon fuls of sugar, for a meringue. Pile 
them on the pudding and set back in the oven with the 
door left open, to brown. 

Apple Slump.— This old-fashioned New England dish 
is made by paring, coring and qunrtering a dozen Rhode 
Island Greenings or any othei; tart and juicy apples. 
Turn over them half a pint of hot water and stew in a ket- 
tle on the back of the stove. In five minutes pour over 
them two teacupfuls of molasses, not syrup. Then make 
a crust of a heaping pint of sifted flour, one teaspoonful of 
sugar and two of baking-powder with sufflcient sweet milk 
to make a soft dough. Roll this out and cover over the 
apples, which should be tender but not broken. Cover the 
kettle closely and let it cook for twenty-five minutes with- 
out lifting the cover. A good sauce is made by creaming 
a cupful of sugar with half as much butter and stir into it. 
just before serving, a scant cupf al of either boiling milk or 
water with seasoning to taste. 



APPLES. 45 

Apple Eggs.— Peel and core six or eij^ht apples, fill the 
cavities with sugar, arrange in an earthen baking-dish and 
pour around them a cup of boiling water. When baked 
pour over them four eggs, whites and yolks beaten separ- 
ately, as for an omelet, and then out into each other. Re- 
turn to the oven till the eggs are set. 

Apple Croquettes.— (Miss Parloa, in Q-ood Housekeep- 
ing). Put one tablespoonfal of water m the bottom of a 
sauce-pan, then put in a quart of pared, cored and sliced 
apples, seasoning, butter and sugar. Cover and place it 
where the apples will cook slowly. Mix one teaspoonful 
of corn-starch with a secoml tablespoon! ul of water. When 
the apples are tender add the corn-starch and stir. well. 
Cook ten minutes longer. Beat two eggs well and stir 
them into the apple, c ok for one minute longer, stirring 
all the time. Rub this mixture through a strainer, letting 
it fall on a buttered dish. Set away to cool; when cold 
shape into cylindrical form, roll in beaten egg and then in 
bread crumbs. Pry in fat for one minute and a half. 
Drain well and roll in powdered sus'ar. Serve hot. They 
are nice with roast duck or goose. 

Apple Soup.— (Ge- man). Boil together two tablespoon- 
fuls of washed rice, a teaspoonful of salt, six tart apples cut 
fine, leaving the peelings on, and two quarts of water. 
Cook halt an hour, then rub through a sieve and return to 
the fire, adding half a teaspoonful of cinnamon, one cupful 
of sugar and a handful of finely out citron. Boil together 
three minutes and serve. 

Apple Omelet.— Beat four eggs stiff, whites and yolks 
separately, and cut the former into the latter at the same 
lime sifting in two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. 
Pour into a greased spider and as soon as it thickens 
spread quickly with apple sauce sweetened to taste. Fold 
over, turn on a platter and serve at once. 

Apple Fritters.- Into two beaten eggs stir one cup of 



46 FKDITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

sweet milk and a pint and a half of flour -with three tea- 
spoonfuls of baking-powder. Mix in a scant pint of peeled, 
cored, and chopped apples and fry in hot fat, or, slice the 
apples thin and drop the slices into the batter. 

Apple Graham Pudding,— Mix together three cup- 
fuls of sifted Graham flour and one and one-half quarts 
of sweet milk; stir in the beaten yolks of three eggs, 
one quart finely chopped apples and then the stiff beaten 
whites. Beat well together, pour into a buttered pudding 
dish and bake slowly an hour and a half. 

Apple Bread.— (£)r. Holbrook.) Weigh one pound oi 
fresh, juicy apples, peel, core and stew them to a pulp in a 
porcelain kettle. Mix the pulp witli two pounds of the best 
flour; put in the same quantify of yeast as would be used 
in common bread and as much water as will make a fine, 
smooth dough. Put into an iron pan and place in a warm 
place to rise and let it remain twelve houra at least Form 
into rather long shaped loaves and bake in a quick oven. 

Apple Pone. — Pare and chop a quart of sweet apples. 
Scald a quart of corn maal with a pint of boiling water, add 
new milk enough to make a stiff batter, then stir in the 
apples. Bake slowly in a close vessel three hours, or boil 
the same length of time, in a pudding bag, or steam in a 
mould. 

Apple Brown Bread,— Into stewed and strained ap 
pie sauce, sweetened a little if the apples are sour, work 
with the bauds equal parts of corn and rye meal tiU the 
mass is of a moderate consistency. Thin with water if the 
apples are not juicy, and bake. 

Apples Au Burre.— Peel and remove the cores from 
gome fine flavored apples. Cut slices of bread the size of 
the diameter of the apple and lay them on the bottom of a 
well-buttered dish; on each slice place an apple; fill the 
aperture with brown sugar and a small bit of butter. Set 



APPLES. 47 

in a moderate oven and bake one-half hour, renewing sug- 
ar once or t wloe. 

Apple Tart. — Slice up one or more nice, tart apples in 
a saucer, sweeten with white sugar, and cover with a mod- 
erately thick slice of bread buttered slightly on the under 
side. When the bread is browned, the apples, if of a ten- 
der kind, will be done. 

Apples Fried, No. l.--Wash and dry fair tart apples, re- 
moving the stems and blossom ends, core, but leave them 
entire Slice th n and drop into a cpider oiled or buttered, 
when the fat is hot. Turn to prevent scorching, and when 
tender and brown serve at once. 

Apples Fried, No. 2.— Peel and core sour apples, tnen 
divide them into eighths, and sprinkle them with sugar, 
flour and bread crumbs. Cover the bottom of a stew-pan 
with a small piece of butter; when melted cover it with 
shoes of apples, and fry y^ellow on both sides. When done 
place in a saucepan some milk, sugar, bread crumbs and 
currants ; put the fried apples in, and let them boil up 
■without breaking. Serve hot with the sauce left in the 
saucepan. 

Apples Whipped.— One pint of the pulp of roasted ap- 
ples strained, one-half pint of pulverized sugar, the whites 
ol three eggs. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, 
then add a spoonful of apple and a spoonful of sugar alter- 
nately, beating all together until the mixture stands per- 
fectly stiff on the spoon. It will swell very much. Make a 
boiled custard of the three yolks of eggs, one pint of milk, 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar and flavor with vanilla. 
Place the custard in saucers, cover with the apple-sauce 
and serve. 

Apple Cake, No.l. (Helen Campbell.)— One quart of 
flour, one teaspoon) ul of salt and two of baking-powder sift- 
ed with the flour, one pint of sour, tender, peeled apples cut 



48 FKUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

in thin slices; half a cup of butter, two eggs, two cups of 
sweet milk, two cups of sugar. 

Cream the butter and add sugar and yolks of eggs; stir 
in the milk and add the flour slowly, then add the stiff 
beaten whites of the eggs. Dust the apples with flour and 
stir them in last of all ; fill the pans three-quarters full and 
bake in a m.oderate oven about half an hour. 

Huoklebeny cake may be made from the same recipe. 
Have the berries picked over, wash'id, dried and dusted 
with flour. It will take a pint. 

Apple Cake, No 2. — Wash clean two cups of sliced dried 
apple, and soak over night; in the morning chopone half of 
them, and stew them all slowly in two cups of molasses, un- 
til they are dark. One cup of butter, two of sugar, two of 
chopped raisins, two-thirds of a cup of sour milk, four eggs, 
oneteaspoonful ofsaleratus, five cups of flour, and aU kinds 
of spice. Put together as directed for other cakes, and stir 
in the apple and raisins last. Bake in loaves in a moder- 
ate oven, from two hours and a half to three. 

Apple Tarts.— Line deep patty-: ins with thin pastry 
and on them spread sour apples cut into eighths and then 
cut in two. Pile up high, sprinkle with sugar and on each 
pour a teaspooijful of water flavored with lemon. Bake 
and serve with a tablespoonful of whipped cream on each 
tart. A deep pie- plate may be used instead of patty-pans. 

Apples Gelatined.— Pare and core medium-sized tart 
apples and simmer till tender. Make a syrup of one'half 
l)0und of sugar for every pound of fruit with the liquor re- 
maining after skimniia? out the apples. Boil and skim, 
drop in the apples which must be kept entire, and cook 
till they are clear. Slice a lemon for every six apples, take 
out the seeds, and cook the s ices with the fruit. Skim out 
the apples and arrange in the dish on which they are to be 
served, place a slice of lemon on each apple, and into the 
syrup pour an ounce of gelatine which bus been previously 
dissolved in half a cupful of cold water. Sti r till smooth and 



APPLES. 49 

strain over the fruit. Set away to cool, and serve with cream. 
One ounce of gelatine will be sufficient for six or eight ap- 
ples. 

Apple Cliarlotte.— Butter a deep dish, out smooth slices 
of bread and spread them with butter, and line the bottom 
and sides. Fill it with sliced sour apples. Sprinkle each 
layer of apples with brown sugar, also a few small bits of 
butter and season as wished. Soak some slices of bread in 
milk or water, lay them on the top and cover them with a 
plate and lay a weight upon that. Bake two and a half 
houi s in a moderate oven. It should turn out whole. Serve 
with cold sauce. 

Apple Butter. — Take sweet cider from the press, not 
more than a day old or alcohol will begin to form and the 
cider will have lost it fruity (j^iiality. Boil it down one-half 
and then add apples, pared, cored and sliced. There should 
be, by measure, slightly more than half as much apple as 
of boiled cider. Cook slowly and carefully, skimming when- 
ever necessary, and stir with a long wooden paddle which 
reaches the bottom of the kettle. The apple is broken into 
one homogeneous mass like marmalade. When it begins to 
break sweeten to taste : it is more wholesome and appetizing 
if left quite tart. Good brown sugar is better than white. 
It can be kept any length of time in stone jars or wooden 
pails or firkins if thoroughly cooked. The usual apple but- 
ter sold in groceries is made insipid by too much sugar. 
The old-fashioned apple butter, less rich but more palatable, 
preserves the very essence of the apple. Season with spice 
to taste, if spices are desired, but^the apple flavor is itself 
incomparable. 



W FKUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 



THE APRICOT. 

" Pure saffron mixed with clearest amber stained. 
The apricots." 

This delightful fruit, in genui? nearly allied to the plum, 
is less widely known than that of the peach which in many 
respects it closely resembles. In color a velvety yellow 
with the cheek exposed to the sun of a ruddy brown, it 
gives hardly a promise of the delicate flavor of the pulp. 
The apricot is propagated by budding on the stalk of the 
plum, wiW cherry or peach. Like its kindred drupes it 
belongs to the order Eosaceae, and the blossoms appear be- 
fore leaves are visible. A native of Armenia, it is culti- 
vated in the United States and Europe not only for its 
flavor but because it ripens in June, before the peach 
comes into market. 

But few rtioipes for the use of the apricot are given 
since in all cases it may be substituted for the peach, which 
is more universally cultivated. 

Apricots with Rice.— Wash a cupful of rice and sim- 
mer in a farina boiler in a quart of new milk till soft and 
the milk absorbed, with a piece of lemon peel which must 
then be removed. Cool the rloe a little and mix in four eggs 
beaten with as many tablespoonfulo ^f sugar; set it on the 
fire and let it come to a boil. Turn the rice into a round 
deep dish into the middle of which set a large deep cup with- 
out a handle. Smooth off the sides of the rice and set away 
to cool. When cold remove the cup and fill the cavity with 
stewed and sweetened apricots flavored with a trifle of 
lemon-juice. Serve with or witnout whipped cream piled 



BANANAS. 51 

around the rice. It is needless to say that stewed or cannea 
peaches, quinces, jelly, or jam or marmalade, may replace 
the apricots. 

Apricot Fritters.— To the beaten yolks o" three eggs, 
add ninetablespoonfuls of mills and st^r in half a pint of 
flour. Split the apricots in two, dust with sugar, dip two 
pieces at a time in the batter and fry in hot lard. 



THE BANANA. 

Among the most important of all fruits is the banana. 
It is the especial food of the inhabitants of many tropical 
countries, since it grows riipidly and bears luxuriantly. 
It reaches a height of fifteea or twenty feet, the stem 
terminating in a tuft of leaves from five to ten feet in 
length and a foot wide. The whole plant makes a salient 
feature of the southern landscape. 

No other plant yielde so large a supply of nutriment, 
and according to Humboldt a given amount of laud which 
would yield thirty-eight pounds of wheat or more than 
eleven times that weight of potato, would produce four 
thousand pounds of bananas. In its constituents it close- 
ly resembles the potato. With a little salt meat or fish 
the native West Indian thrives on bananas, and when 
compelled by necessity performs a good deal of labor upon 
that as a staple article of food. 

Every year witnesses increased importations of bananas 
untill in the vicinity of the seaboard they can be pur- 
chased, in their season, from twelve to twenty-five cents per 
dozen. As a consequence new methods of cooking this es- 
culent are continually sought. 

Nor is this a matter of wonder. Bananas are readily 



53 PEUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

transported so that the route from New York to the Eocky 
Mountains is stuewti with long, thickly studded stalks of 
this favorite fruit. "It is destined to be the fruit of the 
future,'' said one large importer. "Only one-tenth of 
bananas shipped perish before reaching the pmchaser, 
a less percentage than that of any other tropical fresh 
fruit. Then it is cheap and ea3ily handled. A lady can 
peel the banana without removing or soiUng her gloves, a 
fact which has an ipfluence iu its favor." 

It may be also added that housekeepers are learning 
various ways of using the banana. As it ripens every 
month of the year there is no day when it may not be 
seen upon the breakfast table or used as a portion of the 
dessert. Dming the year 1889 the consumption of the 
banana is stated by importers to be f ullj' 33 1-3 per cent 
or one-tLird more than that of the j-ear preceding. It is 
chiefly brought to our ports from the Bahamas and Cuba. 

Bananas and Cream. —Peel, slice across the fruit and 
serve with powdered sugar and cream. 

Sananas and Oranges.— Peel and slice six bananas, 
sprinkle with sugar and witli a little orange jidee between 
the layers, using one large or two small oranges for six ba- 
nanas. Chill on the ice and serve with whipped cream. 

Banana Fritters, No. 1.— (Mrs. Keeler.) Beattilllight 
the yolks of two eggs, then add two large bananas cut in 
small pieces and beat till the mixture becomes a pulp. 
Add a teaspoonful of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of butter, a 
scant half cupful of milk, the whiter of the two eggs beaten 
stiff and one and one-half cupf uls of flour with a scant tea 
spoonful of baking powder. Beat all well Together with an 
egg-beater. Drop from the spoon into deep hot fat and 
fry a light brown. They should be like a puff-ball. Serve 
■with half cupful each of sugar, butter and cieam, creamed, 
the two first and then the last, with vanilla. 



BANANAS. 53 

Banana Fritters, No. 2.— Bear together three eggs, 
stir in two cupfuls of milk and thicken with one pint of 
flour. Stir in two heaping teaspoonfuls of baking-powder 
and two thinly sliced bananas. Fry at once. 

Banana Fritters, No. 3.— (Miss Parloa.) Pare and out 
six bananas in slices aboat half an inch thick; put these in 
a bowl and sprinkle over them two tablespoonf uls of Sugar 
and the j aice of half an orange. Let this stand an hour or 
more. Beat two eggs light and add to them half a cupful 
of milk; pour this mixture gradually on one cupful of flour 
and beat very smooth. Now add one tablespoonf ul of olive 
oil or molted butter and half a teaspoouf ul of salt. ' Drop a 
few pieces of the banana in this; when each piece has been 
perfectly mashed with the butter, drop them, one by one, 
into boiling fat and cook until a delicate brown ; it will not 
take more than two minutes. Takf from the fat and drain on 
brown paper. Sprinkle sugar over them and serve imme- 
diately. Tlie fat must be hot enough to float the fritters 
and about as hot as for frying doughnuts. 

Baked Bananas.— Peel bananas and split lengthwise 
in halves, and place them, flat side down in a large baking 
dish. Sprinkle thickly with sugar a trifle of salt and cin- 
namon and dot with small pieces of butter. Pour half a 
tea-cup of water into the pan, being careful notto pour it 
on the fruit, and brown in a hot oven. 

Banana Pudding.— Line a glass dish with thin slices 
of plain cake and cover them with thin slices of banana. 
Have a second layer of cake and banana then pour over them 
a very thin boiled custard. Serve with whipped cream piled 
on. the top. 

Banana Blnnc Mange.— Into a quart of boiling milk 
stir four tablespoonfuls of corn-starch wet with a little milk 
and a quarter of a cupful of sugar. When it thickens set 
asido to cool. When cold stir in a scant teaspoonful of 
vanilla and two or three thinly sliced bananas. 

Banana Short-Cake.— Cream one-half cup butter and 



54 PEUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

one cup of suear, stir in one beaten egg, half a cup of milk, 
two cups c)f flour and two taaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 
Bake in two round or oblong tins. Over one cake spread a 
pint of whipped cream sweetened to taste, into which has 
been stirred one large banana sliced very thin. Lay the 
other over it and serve hot. 

Banana Gems. — Beat together one cupful of sugar with 
three eggs, add one-fourth of a cupful of water and stir in 
one cupful of flour mixed with one teaspoonful of baking- 
powder. Stir in two thinly sliced bananas, and half flU 
cups which should be steamed one hour. 

Banana Pie.— Beat the yolks of two eggs to a cream 
with one- halt cup of sugar. Peel and mash two large 
bananas or three small ones, sift them and beat into the 
eggs together with one and one-haJf cups of milk or enough 
for a large pie. Bake with one crust, and when done cover 
with a meringue made of the two whites and two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. Serve cold. Double the quantity baked 
in a deep dish without the paste, will make a pudding. 

Fried Bananas, No. 1.— (Miss Parloa) For six bananas 
put two tablespoonfuls of butter in a cup and place on a 
part of the stove where it will heat almost to the bulling 
point; keep it at this temperature for fifteen minutes. At 
the end of this time a clear oil will be on the top and a 
sediment at the botton. Pare the bananas and cut them 
in two lengthwise; roll these pieces lightly in flour. Now 
pour the butter into the frying-pan being careful not to 
pour in the sediment: let this butter get hot and then put 
the slices of floured banana into tlie pan. Fry brown on 
both sides, place on a hot dish, sprinkle with sugar and 
serve. (If a sauce is desired boil together half a cup of 
sugar and the same amount of water, flavor with anything 
liked, likf orange or wine, and pour over it.) 

Fried Bananas, No. 2.— Beat one egg to a froth into 
which dip scarcely ripe bananas cut in two lengthwise. 
Roll in sugar and flour, and fry brown. 



Bl;ACKBEllElEfS. 55 



THE BLACKBEERY. 

This bramble, commonly found by the roadside and past- 
ure lands of the country, has proved itself capable of re- 
markable development through cultivation. The stout 
prickles remain, but by proper enrichmeut of soil and 
"pinchiagin" during summer the size and productiveness 
of the berry has greatly inoveased, ^ 

Botany decides that the fruit is not a berry but a col- 
lection of drupes or seeds with one cell having each a sin- 
gle seed or kernel. But the term berry is popularly ap- 
plied to several other small fruits which are not repllj ber- 
ries, like the strawberry, which bears seer's upon the sur- 
face of a pulpy receptacle. However it will always be 
known as a berry and so this pleasant edible which is con- 
sumed in its natural state or in puddings, pies, jams and 
jellies, conudces as much to the dietary of the summer 
under one name as another. When fully ripe it is exceed- 
ingly wholesome and palatable, as also, the other fruits in- 
cluded under the term berries. 

Blackberries, (Ripe) Select large, perfectly ripe berries, 
sprinkle them with sugar and smother them with wliipped 
cream. Without the cream they may be eaten with sugar 
alone, or with a little thin syrup of sugar and water. They 
are excellent stewed, and make nice jam andj elly, pudding 
and pie. 

Blackberry Pudding, No. 1— Beat three eggs, whites 
and yolks together, until light ; into which stir two teacups of 



5C. FflUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

milk, three and a half of flour, a pinch of salt, one tablespoon- 
ful of melted butter and two heaping teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing-power, beating all the time as the ingredients are added. 
Without delay stir in a pint of blackberries and turn the 
batter into a greased mould, (^over closely, stand in a ket- 
tle of boiling water and steam for three hours. Huckle- 
berries, cherrie.s, raspberries or finely cut peaches or ap- 
ples may be made by this recipe. With any juicy fruit 
like cherries, for instance, drain the stoned fruit and thick- 
en the juice with corn-starch or a,rrowroot, as described in 
the recipe for peach pudding, for the sauce. 

Blackberry Pudding', No 2.— Into a pint of boiling 
milk stir two tablesx>oonfuls of corn-starch made smooth 
"With a little cold milk. Then stir in two eggs beaten with 
two talrospoonfuls of sugar, or more if it is desired very 
sweet. Spread a cupful of blackberry jelly or jam in the 
bottom of a pudding-dish and over it pour the corn-starch 
and bake. Another variety is to use the yolks of four eggs 
with the corn-starch, and when it is baked (with the jam at 
the bottom of the dish) make a meringue of the whites and 
sugar. Bi'own five minutes in the o^en, and just before 
serving dotthe top with several teas.'ioonfuls of jelly. Any 
fruit, jam, or jelly is good with this pudding. 

Blackberry Pudding, No 3.— Cream together a cup- 
ful of liutter and a pint of good brown sugar, stir in four 
well beaten eggs and flour enough to make moderately thick. 
Pour the batter into a buttered pudding-dish and lightly lay 
over it a quart of ripe selected black berries. Do not stir 
them in but bake at once. Eat with sweet cream or liquid 
sauce. 

Blackberry Roll.— Roll biscuit dough half an inch 
thick, spread with stewed blackberries and steam in a 
floured cloth. Leave pleutyof room to swell and serve with 
liquid sauce. 

Blackberry Mush, (Dr. Dodds).— Boil two quarts of 
blackberries in one and cue half-pints of water in a poroe- 



CHERRIES. S7 

lain kettle, heating it slowly. Then thicken it with Graham 
flourtaking care there are no lumps, using one cup of sifted 
Graham to the above amount of water and fruit. Stir in 
also one cup of sifted white flour, cover the kettle closely 
and set it where the mush will continue to cook hut wi 11 
not scorch. Let it remain about ten minutes, stirring onoe 
or twice, then set it back on the stove and in a few minutes 
pour into a mould to cool. Dip the latter into cold water 
before filling it. Serve with mock cream, or cream and 
sugar. 

Blackberry Minute Pudding.— Steep a heaping half- 
pint of blackberries in one full pint of water ten minutes. 
Make smooth four tablespoonf uls of flour in a little cold water 
and pour into the bei-ries and boil, stirring carefully, till 
it thickens and the flour is well cooked. Serve with sweeten- 
ed crpam while warm, or mould in pudding cups and turn 
out to eat cold. 



THE CHEEKY. 

The cultivated cherry is supposed to have its origin in 
Asia, though there are numerous species of wild-cherry in- 
digenous to this continent. What country-bred child has 
not made wry acquaintance with the choke-cherry and its 
native black cousin? • 

From the Old World came the Ox-heart, the Duke, the 
Bigaroon, the Morello and others, yet they flourish apace 
in all our land. Loved of the marauding bee and climb- 
ing boy, in their tops the robin, swings and singS his joy 
that Nature has here so plenteously furnished her family 
with store of food. Before a leaf has put forth its tender 
shoot the starry blossoms burst out in riotous joy that 
spring has come, till the tree is one huge bouquet of milky 
whiteness underneath which even the night becomes a 



«8 PEtflTS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

luminous haze. How swiftly the green fruit grows and 
blushes red beneath the ardent kisses of the sun till the 
entire tree drips with its pendulous globules of luscious 
iruitage and anon the season is over. For most perish- 
able and swift-growing of all the offerings of the year, 
the cherry must be eaten ouly when it is perfectly ripe 
and used without delay. "For a few days nothing can be 
more lovely in the way of fruit than a branch of Duke's or 
Morellos, with their clustered globes mingled with brilli- 
ant leafage. 

Less than many other fruits does the cherry part with 
its flavor in cooking, so that in pie, pudding or padding- 
sauce, in coDsomes and with spices, it still retains an appe- 
tizing individuality. It is especially fine for canning pur- 
poses. 

Cherry Pudding, (Boiled)— Beat three eggs entire, 
then stir in two cups of milk and a little less than a iiuart 
of Hour, enough to make a smooth batter, — a tablespoontul 
of melted butter or drippings, and lastly press through a 
sieve a trifle of salt and two heapinfj teaspoonfuls of baking- 
powder. Beat thoroughly and then mix in a pint of stoned 
cherries Irained of their juice and dredged with flour. 
Turn at once into a buttered pudding-mould, or kettle, and 
cook in a kettle of boiling water for three hours. It must 
not stop boiling during that time. Serve with sauce for 
pudding. 

Cherry Pudding, (Baked')— Beat together two table- 
spoonfuls of butter and four of sugar, and \he yolks of two 
eggs; stjr in two cupfuls of sweet milk, tlie beaten whites of 
the two eggs, and lastly two teacupfule of flour into which 
two heaping teaspoonfuls of baking-powder have been sift- 
ed. Into the bottom of a largo pudding -dish place a layer of 
pitted cherries a little over an inch thick. They should be 
sweetened and the juice drained out. Over them pour the 
batter and bake at once. For the sauce, take two cupfuls 



CHEREIES. 59 

of the cherry-juice, thioken with a heaping tablespoonful 
of corn-starch, and boil ingrsinitizediron or a farina kettle. 
Sweeten with two thirds of a cup of sugar. 

Cherry Pie, Ifo 1. — Stone the common or sour cherries, 
which have a richer flavor tha;-.. finer v arieties, with which 
nearly fUl a deep pie-plate lined with plain paste, after lightly 
washing over the crust with the white of an egg to prevent 
soaking. Over the cherries spread from one-half to two- 
thirds of a cupful of sugar and dredge lightly with flour. 
Cover with a thin upper crust with a cross cut ia the cen- 
ter and press the edge flrmly upon a thin strip of paste be- 
tween the two crusts to retain the juice. Bake half an hour 
and when done dredge the pie with powdered sugar. Serve 
warmi or cold. 

Cherry Pie, No 2.— Line a very deep pie-plate with 
pastry, measure out one teacupful of sugar and spread 
■ half of it over this. On that spi inkle evenly one-half of two 
soda crackers rolled fine, and over that a teacupful of pit- 
ted cherries. Dot the fruit with fine pieces of butter, then 
put on the remainder of the sagar, then the crackers and 
again a teacupful of cherries. Pour over all a teacupful of 
cold water, and at once cover with the upper layer of pas- 
try, prick with a fork and bake in a moderate oven half an 
hour. Dried cherries are almost as good as fresh baked 
after this rule. Soak them a few hours and drain off the 
juice, which in to bo added in place of water before putting 
on the upper crust. 

Cherry Toast, — Toast thin slices of stale bread and 
spread over them, while hot, a trifle of butter. Stew one 
quart of cherries either with or without the pics, adding 
half a cup of water, and pour over the toast in alternate 
layers of bread and fruit. Set away and serve cold. 
The cheiTies while warm should be sugared to tsste. 

Cherry Cups, — Sift together two cupfuls or one pint of 
flour and two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder and with wa- 
ter make a soft dough. Butter large cups aud drop into 



60 FRUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

them a little dou^h, then a tablespoonful of stoned cher- 
ries; then dough enough to half fill the cups. Set them in a 
pan of hot water, put that in the oven, cover it and steam 
half an hour. Eat with cherry sauce or sweet cream. 

Cherry Tapioca.— Mash one cup of tapioca and soak 
it in two cups of cold water several hours, then simmer 
it slowly in apint of water till the tapioca is clear. Into the 
hot tapioca stir a large cupful of stoned chtsrries and sweet- 
en to taste. Turn into a dish and set away to cool. Serve 
with sweet cream. In the same way make stewed apple 
tapioca, or orange, raspberry, strawberry, peach, apricot or 
plum. In this manner can be used any kind of jam or jel- 
ly, whatever may le left from partly used cans or glasses of 
jelly. 



CHOCOLATE. 

Chocolate and cocoa are both made from the seeds of 
the cacao treewhich grows in the West Indies and Cen- 
tral and South America. It is an evergreen bearing flow- 
ers and fruit during the entire year. The beans are im- 
ported in a long. pod containing each twenty or thirty 
beans in a sweet pulp. They are stripped from the pod, 
dried, roasted, ground by revolving grindstones, and sift- 
ed, after which the oily pulp is mixed with sugar, vanilla, 
cinnamon and cloves to make the chocolate of commerce. 
The partly dried pulp is pressed in moulds to expel the 
air and harden it into a mass, after it has been beaten and 
worked into a smooth even paste. It is sometimes adul- 
terated with rice-meal,' oat-meal, flour or roasted hazel- 
nuts. Mexicans are fond of mixing it with maize-meal 
and spices. When not excessively sweet and spicy choc- 
olate is nutritious and wholesome. 



CHOCOLATE. 61 

Chocolate Cake, No. 1. — Cream together three-founhs 
of a pint of powdered sugar and half a cup of butter, and 
to it add one quarter of a pound of grated chocolate, five 
tablespoonfuls of sugar and three tablespoonf uls of water, 
whicii have been stirred together over the fire till smooth. 
Mix thoroughly, then stir in three well beaten eggs, half a 
cup of milk, one pint of flour with which has been sifted 
two heaping teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Bake in a 
moderate oven twenty-five minutes. 

Chocolate Cake, No. 2.— Beat the yolk of one egg and 
stir into one-half cupful of milk, add one cupful of sugar and 
the same quantity of grated chocolate. Boil in a small sauce- 
pan, set in a larger till it thickens, then set aside to cool. 
Cream together one cupful of sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
stir in one-half cup of milk and two and one-half cupf uls of 
flour with two full teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Flavor 
with two teaspoonfuls vanilla and stir in the perfectly cold 
chocolate mixture. Bake in jelly tins and between the lay- 
ers put boiled frosting. To make this boil two cups of sug- 
ar and one-hall a cup of water to a syrup then pour very 
slowly on the whites of two eggs beaten very stiff, beating 
all the while. Add a pinch of citric acid while beating. 
When cold spread' over each layer. 

Chocolate Pudding, ((Tood.)-Boil one pint of new milk . 
in a farina kettle and while boiling stir in three tablespoon- 
fuls of corn-starch or four of flour made smooth in two ta- 
blespoonfuls of cold milk. Mix in five- tablespoonfuls of 
sugar after the milk has thickened, one-half cup of grated 
chocolate and two well-beaten eggs. Let it cook a few mo- 
ments, just enough to set the eggs, then pour into a mould 
or the dish in which it is to be served. Cool on the ice and 
eat with egg sauce. Make thii by boiling' a pint of milk 
with a half teacup of sugar, and pouring in a little at a 
time, beating well, on the yolks of the beaten eggs. Flavor 
with vanilla. 

Chocolate Macaroons.— Melt on a slow fire and in a 
tin pan three ounces of chocolate without sugar, then work 



63 FEIJITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

it to a thick paste witb one pound of pulverized sugar and 
three whices of eggs. Roll the mixture down to the thick- 
ness of about one-quarter of an inch; cut it in small round 
pieces with a paste cutter, either plain or scalloped; butter 
a pan slightly and dust it with flour and sugar, half of each; 
place the pieces of paste or mixture in and bake in a hot, 
but not quick oven. Serve cold. 

Chocolate Pie. — Measure out one cup and a half of milk 
with three tablespocnfula of which mix three even tea- 
spooiifuls of flour. Heat the remainder of the milk in a 
farina kettle and put one half square of grated unsweeten- 
ed chocolate in a cup in the oven or in boiling water. 
When the milk comes to a boil turn it over the thickening, 
put back on the stove and stir till it is smooth, then pour it 
over two Bggs beaten light with one half cup of sugar. Stir 
slowly till the egg is smooth, remove from the fire and mix 
in the melted chocolate with one scant teaspoonful of 
vanilla. When nearly cool bake in one crust and cover 
with a meringue of the whites of two eggs beaten with two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar. Brown slightly and cool before 
serving. Increase the quantity and bake in a deep dish 
without pastry if a pudding is desired. 

Chocolate Cookies.— Beat together one scant cup of but- 
.ter and two of bast brown sugar and mix with the beaten 
yolks of four eggs, then the beaten whites. Stir in three 
cups of flour, one of grated unsweetened chocolate and 
three teaspoo nfuls baking-powder. RoU out thin out in 
shapes and bake like other cookies. 



• THE COCOANUT. 

In the Isles of the Navigators, as in other tropical countries, 
nothing contributes so largely to the necessities of the pea- 
pie as the cocoanut. The Samoan chiefs assert that it was 
sent direct from Heaven. A visitiir at the southern zone 



COCOANUT. 63 

writes, " Nothing is more acceptable tn a tongufi parched 
with tropical heat than its cool, palatable and refreshing 
milk, while its soft tender meat is fit for a meal. " 

The tree, which grows to the height of sixty to ninty feet, 
affords a large variety of useful productions. The nut is 
eaten both unripe and ripe, and the oil expressed from it is 
used both as food and for the purposes of illumination. 
The rich, sweet flavor of the cocoanut gi\ es it an impor- 
tance in the cuisine which ii scarcely indicated in the ac- 
companying recipes since it is chiefly used in cakes and 
custards. 

The cultivation of the cocoanut has been successfully be- 
gun in the southern portion of Florida. The best trees 
produce about two hundred nuts per year. They are 
planted twenty feet apart aad require little cultivation. 
The cocoa-tree is a graceful and beautiful tree even though 
it does not come to fruitage. A.bout 19,00,0000 cncoanuts 
entered the port of New York in the year 1889. 

Cocoanut Pudding, No 1, (Helen Campbell.)— Soak 
one heaping cup of fine bread crumbs ina pint, of milk, and 
cream together one cup of granulated sugar and butter the 
size of an egg. Add four well-beaten eggs, atablespoonful of 
rose-water, half a teaspoonf ul of salt, a fourth of a grated 
nutmeg, and one freshly grated cocoanut or two cupfuls of 
the desiccated which have been soakpd in milk an hour 
before using. Bake slowly one hour. Two of the whites of 
eggs may be made into a meringue with as many table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. After bakinj; spread the pudding with 
the meringue and brown lightly in the oven. 

Cocoanut Pudding-, No. 2.— In a pudding-dish on the 
back of the range. Soake one half cupful of rice in one 
quart new milk two hours. Then add a full half cupful of 
sugar, one teaspoonful of cinnamon and one cupful of 
cocoanut, and bake in a moderate oven one hour. Stir 
occasionally during the first half ho^ir, 



FRUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

Cocoanut Pudding, Ifo 3.— One quart of milk, four 
table&poonfuls of corn-starch, one cup of sugar, a salt- 
spoonful of flavoring, four eggs and one cup of grated cocoa- 
nut. Boil the milk with the sugar and salt, dissolve the 
corn-starch in a little cold water, and add. When smooth 
and thick, stir in the eggs beaten well, the cocoanut and 
flavoring, and put in a large mould to cool. Serve with 
whipped cream or boiled custard. 

Cocoanut Pudding, No. 4.— Thicken two oupfuls of 
milk with a scant half-cupful of flour wet with a little cold 
milk and stirred into the boiling milk, and when cooked 
stir in four tablespoonfuls of sugar and two stiff-beaten 
eggs. Boil enough to cook the eggs, stirring all the while, 
then add a scant pint of grated cocoanut and one teaspoon- 
f ul of vanilla. Pour into a mould and serve with cream. 

Cocoanut Sponge.— Half fill a glass dish -with thin 
slices of plain, stale cake. Alternate them with layers of 
grated cocoanut, and pour over all a thin boiled custard 
made with the yolks of four eggs and a pint of milk sweet- 
ened to the taste. Serve cold. 

Cocoanut Custard.— Mix a pint of milk with the milk 
of one cocoanut and half the meat grated, a pinch of salt and 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Beat three eggs leavingout the 
whites of two ; into this stir very carefully and slowly the 
boiling milk. Set the saucepan containing the mixture in 
boiling water and let it thicken; then take it out and stir 
till cool. Pour it into cups and cover the whole with the 
whites of the two eggs beaten to a foam, with two table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar. Sprinkle them with grated 
cocoanut, then with powdered sugar, and set them in the 
oven a moment to brown. 

Cocoanut Cookies. CCatharine Owen)— Mix together 
two cupfuls of flour, a teaspoonful of baking-powder and 
a good tablespoonf ul of lard rubbed into it; stir in one 
cupful of sugar, one cupful of grated cocoanut, and beat 
one egg with a cupful of milk; add a few drops of flavoring 



COCOANUT. 65 

and stir all very well together. If the paste is too thick to 
drop from the end of the spoon use a little more milk, drop 
in small cakes and bake quickly. In this way currant 
cookies may be made, substituting currants for coeoanuts, 
caraway seed, chopped hickory nuts, citron, or any spice 
may be used in place of the currants and the cookies called 
by the name of the ingredient. 

Cocoanut Cake, (Good.) -Three-fourths of a pint of 
powdered sugar, one large tablespoonful of butter, half a 
pint of grated cocoanut, one pint of flour, one tablespoon- 
ful of baking-powder, and milk enough to make a sti£E 
batter. Bake in shallow greased pans and scatter dry 
cocoanut over the top. 

Cocoanut Desiccated. (Catharine Owen.)— This pop- 
ular author says: "I prefer to prepare this myself as it is 
so much whiter and sweeter, and very much cheaper than 
when bought ready prepared. Choose a line cocoanut, 
(as it keeps indefinitely, you may do several,) pare it care- 
fully, wipe it to remove all specks of the rind, or, if very 
much soiled wash it. but dry it very carefully afterwards. 
Then grate it on a lui-ge, coarse grater, sprinkle it with 
granulated sugar, shake it up well and then dry on tin 
pans in a cool oven, with the door open, or in the hot sun, 
stirring it up now and then. It should not change color 
at all but be glittering white, and should be perfectly dry 
before it ia put away. It keeps for mouths in tin canisters 
or wide mouthed bottles. 

Cocoanut Potato Pie, STo. 1.— Three eggs, one large 
potato, one-half cup cocoanut, one pint milk, one table- 
spoonful butter, sugar to taste, a little salt. 

Boil and mash the potato, and add the sugar, butter, 
and salt, then the beaten eggs, and lastly the milk in which 
part of the cocoanut has been soaked. Reserve the white 
of one egg for frosting, add To it the rest of the cocoanut,. 
and spread a little red sugar over the top. 
Cocoanut Custard Pie, No. 3.— One pound cocoanut. 



66 FEUITS AND HOW TO DSE THEK. 

grated, one large cup powdered sugar, one quart milk, six 
eggs beaten to a froth, one teaspoonful nutmeg, t^fo tea- 
spoonfuls vanilla or rose water. Boil the mills, take it 
from the fire, and whip in gradually the beaten eggs. 
When nearly cold, season; add the coeoanut, and pour into 
paste-lined pie plates. Bake twenty minutes. It will 
make two pies. » 

Coeoanut Pie, No. 3. — Save the milk fro.n a cocoa-, 
nut and grate the meat; mix with the latter the same 
weight of sugar, half a cup of rich milk, or milk and crjfiu), 
and the milk of the cccoanut. To this add three eg^f, 
whites and yolics separately beaten to a foam, the whites 
last, and a half teaspoonful of lemon or orange extract. 
Pour into a thin paste in deep pie tins and bake half an 
hour. 

Coeoanut Cake, No. 2.— Cream one cup of butter and 
beat in two cups of sugar, add the beaten yolks of four eggs 
then the stiff buaten whiter, four and one half cups of 
flour, one cup of grated coeoanut and three heaping tea- 
spoonfuls of baking-powder. Flavor with lemon and bake 
in oblong loaves. Ice the tops, over which scatter grated 
or desiccated coeoanut. * 

Coeoanut Jumbles. — Beat together one cup of sugar 
and one of butter, add the beaten yolks of two eggs, then 
the beaten whites, one teaspoonful of baking-powder, half 
a pound coeoanut grated, and flour enough to keep the 
dough from stickmg when rolled out, no more. Sprinkle 
the tops with coeoanut and bake. 

Coeoanut Balls.— One cup of fresh grated coeoanut, 
one-half cup ot flour, the weight of the coeoanut in- sug- 
ar, ihe beatenl white of one egg. mixed together with a lit- 
tle milk if too stiff to shape. Roll into small balls between 
the palms and bake in a moderate oven. 

• 
• Coeoanut Drops.— Beat to a froth the whites of four 
esgs, adding gradually one pint of powdered sugar, then 
stir in enough grated coeoanut to make it very thick, 



CEANBEEEIES. 67 

Drop on white paper and bake. Desiccated ooeoanut 
soalsed in milk may be used in place of fresh. 

Cocoanut Cones. — One pound powdered sugar, one- 
half pound grated cocoanut, whites of Ave eggs. Whip the 
eggs as for icing, adding the sugar until it. will stand 
alone, then beat in the cocoanut. Mould the mixture with 
the hands into small cones, and set these far enough apart 
not to touch one another, upon buttered paper in a bak- 
ing-pan. Bake in a very moderate oven. 

Cocoanut Cracknels.— Into a pint of fine oatmeal stir 
four tablespoonfuls of fresh grated cocoanut or five of the 
desiccated with three tablespoonfuls of sugar. Stir into it 
halt a cupful or one gill of boiling watt-r and mix thorough- 
ly. Turn it out on a I'olling board, well floured, after it has 
stood twenty minutes to swell, and roll out a quarter of an 
inch thick. Put a little shred citron and a few currants 
int J each cake, out out with a biscaft-cutter, and bake in a 
slow ov?n. Let them stand exposed to the air a few hours 
to make them crispy, and they furnish a delicious cracker. 



THE CRANBERRY. 

This acid fruit, so mu.:h in request for jellies and sauces, 
is a native of every continent of the North Temperate Zone. 
It grows in marshy places, and its blossoms, of a beautiful 
rose color, give place to an abundant and piquant flavored 
fruit. The American cranberry is a larger plant and bears 
a larger berry than the foreign. 

Cranberries spoil easily, but can be kept for some time 
in w.ater. They should be cooked only in porcelain, granite 
or stone-ware, and should not be sweetened until they have 
cracked open, unless it is wished to preserve them whole. 

Cranberry Sauce. — Pick over and wash the berries 
and cook with half as much water by measure as there are 



68 FRUITS AND HO'iV TO USE THEM. 

berries. In fifteen minutes add the same quantity of sugar 
as of water, and let th'im steep, not boil, until they are 
done. Ct)ol in a porcelain dish. 

Cranberry Pie, No 1.— Scald the cranberries, sprink- 
le sugar on the lower crust, then put In a layer of berries; 
sprinkle with sugar, dot with saiall pieces of butter, pour in 
two tablespoonfuls of water, and dredge lightly with flour. 
Twist narrow strips of paste and cross the top, diamond- 
wise. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Cranberry Pie, No 2.— Fill a paste-lined pie-dish 
with uncooked cranberries, and pour over them three- 
fourths of a large cup of molasses and sugar mixed in equal 
quantities. Dredge lightly with flour, and cover with a 
thin crust crossed in the center or pricked with a fork. 

Cranberry and Kaisin Pie, No 3.— Wash and cnop 
coarsely three-fourths of a pint of cranberries andfillupthe 
pint with seeded raisins. Sweeten them with one cup of 
sugar, pour them into a pie-dish lined with paste, dredge 
with flour, cover with paste and bake forty minutes. 

Cranberry Bolly-poly.— For th« crust mix together 
one quart of flour, two tablespoonfuls of butter or drip- 
pings, and sweet milk enough to make biscuit dough, with 
two dessert spoonfuls of baking-powder. Roll out a quarter 
of an inch thick, and in the center pile up cranberry jelly or 
jam. Wet the edees and pinch together then bake in a 
moderate oven three quarters of an hour, or tie in a thin 
cloth and steam an hour. Serve with liquid sauce. 

Cranberry Dumplings.— Make a crust as described 
in apple-dumplings, and place cranberries instead of apples 
in the center. Bake, boil or steam, and eat with hard or 
liquid sauce. 

Cranberry Batter Pudding.— Make as in recipe for 
cherry batter pudding, after scalding the cranberries, or 
make a rich biscuit dough into which stir a plentiful 
quantity of cranberries. Pour into a mould, and steam 
1 v.'o hours and a half. Serve with sweetened cream. 



CJBANBEREIES. eS9 

Cranberry Pudding-, No 2.— Pour enough boiling wa- 
ter on a pint of fine stale bread-crumbs to let them swell : in 
fifteen minutes stir in a tablespoonful of melted butter. 
When the crumbs are sufficiently soft add two eggs beaten 
light, yolks and whites together, and half a teacup of sugar. 
At the last stir in a pint of stewed and sweetened cranber- 
ries and bake in a buttered pudding-dish. It is improved 
by covering the top with the beaten whites of two eggs 
with two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Serve with liquid 
sauce. 

Cranberry Pudding, No 3.— Butter very lightly thin 
slices of bread and a,rrange on the bottom of an oiled pud- 
ding-dish. Over it pour a layer of stewed and sweetened 
(jranberries and ovei- that a layer of bread, then of berries, 
with bread for the upper layer. Pour over the whole a 
cupful of sweetened cranberry juice into which has been 
stirred one beaten egg. Let it stand fifteen minutes and 
bake half an hDur. 

Cranberry Cracker Pudding, No 4.— Sift a heaping 
teaspoonful of baking-powder into a cup of fine crackor- 
crumbs and ma.ke into a thick batter with thin cranberry 
sauce sweetened to taste. Drop a spoonful each into but- 
tered pudding cups, cover closely and set in a dripping-pan 
half filled with boiling water and bake forty minutes, closely 
covered, or, put them in a steamer for one hour. Serve 
with sweetened cream. 

Baked Cranberries. — Pill a stone crock two-thirds full 
of nice oranberrjes, pour hot water over them and bake, 
covered, till they are tender. When they begin to grow soft 
stir in carefully half as much sugar as there are cranber- 
ries, and finish baking. 



70 PEUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 



THE CUERANT. 

The currant, a native of the temperate zone of Europe, 
Asia, and America, is one of the most healthful kinds of fruit 
known in the United States. Out of the sixty varieties 
cultivated more than forty are American. 

These include those popularly designated as the white, 
the red, and the black currant. The first is a favorite table 
fruit, while the red currant is more generally esteemt-d for 
the purpose of jelly, jam, and acid flavoring for summer 
beverages. 

As a table fruit, strip red and white currants together or 
either separately, from their stems, dredge thick with pow- 
dered sugar and pour over them either a little sweetened 
water or strained and sweetened currant juice. They may 
also be mashed and generously sugared but should not be" 
served uncooked till perfectly ripe. 

The Zaute Currant.— This foreign fruit will no doubt 
one day be replaced by the dried Native American fruit, 
which, though less sweet, has more flavor than its distant 
cousin. Used with raisins and citron iu cake and pudding.s 
it is less known as a sauce, either stewed alone or with rai- 
sins than it should be. It needs little sugar, is wholesome 
and easily prepared. Zante currants need much, cleans- 
ing-. 

How to wash Currants.— Pour a pound of imrrants at 
a time into a deep dish, and over them pour a cupful of 
flour. With the hands rub the mixture thoroughly till the 
flour is incorporated with the fruit. Turn a portion of the 
currants into a colander and flood it with water. The dirt 



CURRANTS. n 

will adhere to the flour and be washed away with it. Add 
fresh warm water and rub the fruit well between the palms 
and so continue till the water running through is no longer 
discolored. Drain well and pour the currants on a coarse 
clean cloth to dry on thj back of the stove. When dried 
pick out all stems and stones and cover in cans for future 
use. 

Currants.— Select large, ripe bunches of rod or white 
currants or of both, sprinkle with sugar and serve un- 
stemmed. Or, strip from the stems, mash a large cupful, 
squeese through a cloth strainer, sweeten the expressed 
juice, and pour over the remainder of the fruit. Serve ver-y 
cold. Again dip in frothed white of egg; while still on the 
stems, roll in powdered sugar and serve. 

Currants Stewed.— Green currants are palatable stewed 
in an equal measure of water; sweeten them just before tak- 
ing from the range. They need a large quantity of 
sugar. 

Ripe Currant Pie. — Mash one cup of ripe currants and 
stir in three-fourths of a cup of sugar filled up with mo- 
lasses. Gradually mix together three tablespoonfuls of 
water with two of flour, stir into the fruit and pour in- 
to a pie-plate lii)ed with paste. Dot the surface with a tew 
small crumbs of butter and cross the top with narrow strips 
of past". Bake in a rather slow oven. 

Green Currant Pie.— Strip currants two-thirds grown 
from the st°ms, stew till soft, and take from the stove. 
Sweeten to taste, and pour into a pie-dish lined with paste. 
Dredge lightly with flour, and put on a thin upper crust. 
Slash the top and bake half an hour. 

Currant Meringue. —Crush a tea,cupful of ripe cur- 
rants and sweeten wiih an equal quantity of sugar. Into 
the yolk of two eggs beat a heaping teaspoonful of flour 
and stir into the currants, adding a tablespoon! ul of water if 
they are not very juicy. Line a ileep pie-plate with crust, 



73 FEriTS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

pour in the currants, bake, and then cover the top with 
a meringue made of fche well-beaten whites with two table 
spoonsfula of powdered sugar. Brown slii^rhtly in the oven 
and selaway to .serve cold. 

Currant Fritters. (Zante Currants).— Two cups dry, line 
bread-crumbs, two tablespoonfuls prepared flour, two cups 
of milk, one-half pound currants, washed and well dried, 
five eggs whipped very light, and the yolks strained, one- 
half cup powdered sugar, one tablespoonful butter, one-half 
teaspoonful mixed cinnamon and nutmeg. Boil the milk 
and pour over the bread. Mix and put in the butter. Let 
it get cold. Beat in, next, the yolks and sugar, the season- 
ing, flour and stiff whites, finally, the currants dredged 
whitely with flour. The batter should be thick. Drop in 
great spoonfuls into the hot lard and fry. Drain them and 
send hot to table. 

Currant Pudding.— Beat two eggs light and stir into a 
cupful of sugar creamed with half a cupful of butter, stir 
in a cupful of milk, three-fourths of a pint of flour with 
two even teaspoonfuls of baking-powder and one cupful of 
currants. Bake in patty pans. 

Currant Tartlets.— Line patty-pans with thin pie 
paste and bake. Fill them with currants stewed with one- 
fourth their measure of raspberries and well sweetened. 

Currant Pudding, No 1.— Make precisely like cherry 
batter pudding, pour into a buttered mould and steam an 
hour and a half. Serve with currant juice thickened 
slightly with flour and butter rubbed together and made 
very sweet. 

Currant Pudding, No 2.— Into a common bread pud- 
ding made sweeter than usual and very thick, stir one cup • 
of ripe currants and bake at once. Serve with currant 
sauce. 

Currant Pudding, No 3.— Toast stale -bread, bucter 
lightly and place on the bottom of a biittered pudding-dish. 
Over it pour a lajer of ripe currants sweetened with half 



DATES. 7^ 

their measure of sugar, then another layer of bread toasted 
and again currants. Pour over half a cup of warm water 
and bake one hour. 

Curi-ant Sliort-Oake.— Make like strawberry short-cake 
(described under the head of strawberries), and serve with- 
out cream and while warm. 



THE DATE. 

" There dates oJ agate and of jasper lay. 
Dropped from the bounty of the pregnant palm." 

No tree occupies so prominent a place in poem and pict- 
ure as the date-palm with its plentiful fruitage of dates. 
It is associated with slow-moving caravans and dasky, tur- 
baned Arabs, with the boundless desert and clusters of 
domes outlined against a cloudless horizon, with the camel 
and all the spices and puesy of the orieot. In our prosa- 
ic hemisphere the fruit often becomes a shapeless mass of 
consolidated sweetness, coarse in taste and appearance. 
Yet the date-palm is known as one of the most highly- 
prized of all trees since its fruit furnishes food to millions 
of oar race. 

A native of the north of Africa and the south-west of 
Asid, the date forms the staple article of diet in Persia, 
Arabia, and a portion of Africa. It contains 58 per cent 
of sugar, besides a large amount of gum and other essen- 
tia] elements. It is used both when fresh and dried, be- 
sides fumiKhing wine and vinegar after distillation. 

Nor is this the only value of the date-bearing tree. 
Food is procured from the undeveloped panicles of the 
flowers, the roasted seeds are made into coffee, while from 
them an oil is expressed; baskets are made from leafstalks, 



74 FRUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

and the leaves furnish mats, bags and material for thatch- 
ing. Buildings are made from the wood of the palm and 
cordage from its fibers, so that no portion of the precious 
growth goes to waste. 

The free use of the date is considered most wholesome. 
In place of citron especially dates may be used to advan- 
tage in many kinds of cookery. They should be pulled 
apart by the fingers and washed in water so thoroughly as 
to remove the dust which may have clung to them while 
drying in theii" not too cleanly Easteru home, and drained. 
Eemove the stones with the .'ingers or with a small sharp 
knife. 

Date Sauce. — Prepare apples as for apple sauce, and 
partially cook. Add an equal quantity of dates and a lit tie 
sugar and continue stirring until the latter fruit is tender. 
Serve warm or cold. 

Date Pudding-.— Chop fine one cup of suet and beat it 
with one cup of sugar and the yolks of two eggs till light. 
Thenaddateaspoontulol cinnamon, the well-beaten whites 
of two eggs, a d lastly one teaspoonful of baking-powder. 
Mix well and stir in one pound of dates stoned and chopped 
fine. Boil or steam three hours in an oiled mould or pail. 
Serve with hard sauce. The dates may be replaced with 
flgs, candied cherries, plums, raisins, or currants. 

Date Pie, No 1.— Soak one pound of dates in warm 
water overnight, then stew and sift the same as pumpkin. 
This will make three pies. Into the pulp stir three beaten 
eggs, a teaspoonful of cinnamon, add milk enough to fill 
thfc plates and sugar to taste. Bake with one crust 

Date Pie, No 2.-- Bake the stoned fruit, either vrath or 
without apples, between two cmsts. First stir them into a 
pulp with a little warm water. After filling the under 
paste, sweeten them, dredge with flour, cover with the 
second paste, and bake in a quick oven. 



DATES. 75 

Date Puffs.— Cream together one cup of sugar and one- 
fourth as much butter, and into it stir two baaten eggs, 
four tablespoonfuls of sweet milk, flavoring to taste, and one 
large teaspoonful of baking-powder sifted withflour enough 
for a rather thick batter. With this half fill oiled cups, 
then put in a large tsblespoonful of stoned dates and over 
these a spoonful of butter. Steam or bake, and st-rve with 
sweet cream. Oranges, peaches, apricots, figs, or canned 
fruit drained of its juices may be used in place of dates. 

Date Mush.— Into a kettle of boiling water stir slowly 
coarse wheaten flour, either the crushed wheat or Graham 
flour. It will take about two cups of flour to thicken a lit- 
tle more than two quarts of water. It should be slowly 
sifted through the fingers to prevent lumping. Let it boil, 
with little stirring so as!not break the granules, over a mod- 
erate fire for ten minutes. Then stir in a pint of fresh dates 
and let the mush cook five or ten minutes more before re- 
moving to the back of the stove. Serve warm or cold. If 
the latter, mould the mush in small bowls. Invert them on 
small soup plates, and eat with cream or fruit juice. This 
makes an excellent dish for breakfast or luncheon. 

The following recipes are from Mrs. Eleanor W. F. 
Bates in Good Housekeeping, and are < mginal with that 
lady, who dsFsrves the honor of having added several 
wholesome dishes to the repertoire of the fruit-loving 
housekeeper. 

Date Bread.— At night set a sponge of one quart of 
lukewarm water, three pints of common white flour, half a 
teacupful of potato j-east and a teaspoonful of salt. Set it 
in a warm place to rise, and in tlie morning add one-half 
cupful each of molasses and sugar, and about five cupf uls of 
whole wheat flour. Thia recipe makes three good-sized 
loaves, and one or two may be reserved for plain bread if 
you wish ; but for each loaf of date bread stir in a pint 
(slightly heaped) of the prepared dates. Rise again and 
bake in an oven not too hot at first, bat increasing in 



76 PKUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

fervor toward the last of the baking. Three-quarters of an 
hour should produce loaves of a ricrti brown, moist and ten- 
der throughout. Do not cut the loaves for at least twelve 
hours. This bread is a great favorite with children, and in 
point of wholesomeuess and deliciousness is almost the ideal 
food. 

Date Cake.— Beat together a slightly heaped cupful of 
sugar and a half cupful of butter, add two well beaten eggs, 
one-half teaspoonful essence of lemon and a scrape of 
nutmeg; add one cupful of sweet milk with one teaspoonful 
of saleratus dissolved in it; finally add two and one-half 
cupfuls of flour with two teaspoonfuls <.<t cream of tartar 
sifted through it. Stir gently into this creamy mass a well 
heaped cupful of prepared dates. Bake in a shallow pan 
and cut i n squares. Tour family will cordially invite you to 
repeat this cake as often as your time and strength will 
permit. 

Date Sandwiches.— Cut white or Grraham bread in 
thin slices, trim off any hard crust that may cling round 
the edges, batter thinly, thenspread on one sliceof prepared 
dates. They will need to be gently coaxed, rolled and 
spread with a silver fork to make a smooth layer. The 
dates having accommodated themselves to circumstances, 
cover with another thin slice of the buttered bread and press 
the two sides gently together, after the well-known manner 
of sandwiches. Serve while they are newly made. Your 
guests will probably consider this dish a distinct novelty. 

Date Pudding. — Almost any recipe that has a layer of 
jam or jelly as part of the rule may be beneficially changed 
by substituting a layer of dates. The following formula 
has been used with success, and is recommended as easy to 
make and gratifying to the taste: Butter a pudding-dish 
and sprinkle on the bottom half a cupful of dry bread 
crumbs wet with a very little milk; cover with a layer 
of the stoned and washed dates. The next layer should be 
bread-crumbs as before, the same amount, and moistened 
with milk still cautiously. Now heat one quart of milk 



PIGS. 77 

and when nearly boiling take it from the Are and add 
gradually the yolks of four eggs which have been pre- 
viously beaten with a lialf cupful of sugar; add the four 
beaten whites, stirring them in lightly. Return this to the 
fire and stir till it begins to thicken. Take once more from 
(he fire, add the veriest speck of salt and a small half tea- 
upoonf ul of v.nilla. tut the custard, a spoonful at a time, 
upon the layer of crumbs— not to disturb them — and bake 
until handsomely browned on top. Eat lukewarm or cold, 
not hot. 



THE FIG. 

The fig-tree, noteworthy from the fact that it is the first- 
luentioned in the Bible, belongs to a family both numer- 
ous and widely scattered. Among its members are the 
bread-fruit of the Pacific, the upas and the India-rubber 
trees of Java, the banyan of India, and the mulberry and 
Osage orange of the United States. 

Most highly prized of all is the fig-tree, the productions 
of which form an important article of commerce from the 
Mediterranean. They are dried in the sun and contain- 
ing so mach grape sugar as to need ao other preservative. 
This fruit flourishes only where the late sumaier is warm 
and dry, so that the trees are of tin destroyed even in Florida, 
where thej' form a characteristic portion of the landscape. 
On the Pacific coast the fig flourishes unscathed, so that 
the fortuuate planter there can literally sit under his 
ovm vine and fig-tree, in southern localities, all the live- 
long year. 

The fi<;'-tree was common in Greece during the Platonic 
era, and, following the course of empire westward became 
acclimated in all the warm countries of the world. Its 
yearly yousumption is constantly increasing. Great Britain 



:S FRUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

alone importing the fruit to the valne of car a million of 
dollars annually. In this country the fig has an enor- 
mous sale. 

It would seem that the English forefathers recog- 
nized the value of fruit fullj' as much as in the 19 th cent- 
ury. Of the famous men of the reigns of Edward VI, 
Mary and Elizabeth, no one ranked higher, an botanist and 
physician, than WilJiam Bulleyn. There are prose writ- 
ings of the good William which attest his wit and shrewd- 
ness. Among other things he says: " Figges be good 
against melancholy and the falling evil (epilepsy), to be 
eaten. Figges, nuts and herb grace do make a sufficient 
medicine against poison or the pestilence." 

Figs are excellent at breakfast or lunch just as they are 
brought from the Levant. A correspondent of the Die- 
tetic Reformer, a London Monthly, gives this combination 
of 

Figs and Rhubarb. (Pie Plant)— Cut the rhubarb into 
pieces about two inches long, without peeling, also cut the 
figs into small pieces, adding sugar and water according to 
taste. Stew in a rather slow oven so aa to retain the shape 
of the rhubarb. The following combinations are nice; viz: 
rhubarb stewed with either lemons, raisins, oranges and 
ginger. 

Fig Pudding, No. 2.— Mix to.setherone cupot molasses 
one oup finely chopped suet, an even teaspoonf ul each of 
salt and cinnamon, half a, nutmeg, one pound of figs cut in 
fine pieces, and twD well-beaten eggs. Dissolve an even tea- 
spoonful of soda in a little hot water, stir into a cup of milk, 
and add this to the mixture. Then stir in four cupfulssifted 
flour, beating thoroughly. Buttera pudding mould or high 
tin pail, pour in the batter, cover closely and set in boiling 
water, which mustbe kept boiling for threeliours. Eat with 
or without sauce mad^ of the yolks of two eggs, stirred into 
creamed butter and sugar, and heated till the egg thickens. 



FIGS. 79 

Flavor with lemon and cinnamon. A cup of sugar may be 
substituted for the molasses, in whi^ch case use only three 
cupfuls of flour. 

Fig Pie.— Make a thin rich crust for the bottom. Let it 
come to the edge, and bend it upward just enough to hold 
the filling, but do not make a thick ridge of crust. For a 
mwdium-sized pie take half a pound of figs, chop them fine, 
and CO jk with the addition of a cup of cold water. When 
the figs are soft and smooth, put in the crust and bake. 
Make a meringue of the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff, with 
two tabV'spoonfuls o* sugar; flavor with vanilla, and with- 
out taking the pie from the oven, as soon as the crust is 
done, spread this over the top, and let it brown for a min- 
ute or two, not longer. 

Fig and Potato Pudding.— To one half pint of par- 
boiled sweet potatoes pressed through a sieve, one half pint 
of figs chopped fine, thesame measure of fine bread-crumbs, 
a cup of fine seeded raisins, half a cup of butter, the same 
qupntity of sugar, add three eggs, a large cupful of milk and 
ct little cinnamon. Soak the bread-crumbs in the butter, 
heat together eggs and sugar into which stir, first the pota- 
to pulp and then the bread-crumbs, figs, suet and spice. 
Pour into a buttered mould or tin pail, and boil three hours. 
Serve with liquid sauce. 

Fig Pudding.— Chop together one pound of figs and one 
pound of fine bread-crumbs, add one pound of chopped 
beef suet and one pound of brown sugar, a cup of milk and 
six well-beaten eggs. Boil or steam three hours in a but- 
tered mould, and serve with cream or liquid sauce. Other 
fruits may be used in place of figs. 

Fig Fancy Cake. — Bake any kind of plain cake in pat- 
ty pans or fancy shapes. Make an icing for them, then 
taka one pound of the best flgs and cut them in halves, 
and then in narrow strips; arrange them upon the cakes 
while the icing is wet, with the flesh side up. Sprinkle the 
cakes with coarse granulated sugar, and it will give the 
figs the appearance of being frosted. 



FBUITS AND HOvV TO USE THEM. 



THE GOOSEBERRY. 

Accurding to botanists the distinction between the 
gooseberry and tlie currant is not stronglj' marked, though 
in appearance they are dissimilar. While North America 
has a number of wild gooseberries the climate of Great 
Britian seems to be more favorable to them than that of 
this country. The later developed varieties, which are 
destitute of prickles, are easily handled and are most ex- 
cellent. When unrijDe they make delicious pies and tarts, 
and the ripe gooseberry has value in jam and preserves. 

Gooseberry Sauce.— Select large, ripe gooseberries, 
cut off blooms anil stems with small scissors, sprinkle with 
sugar and serve with cream. 

Gooseberries Stewed.— Pluck gooseberries before they 
are fully ripe, prepare as above, and stew with a little water 
till soft. Season with half as much sugar as fruit, by meas- 
ure, and serve cold with or without cream. 

Gooseberry Fool.— Cut off the blossoms and stems of 
one quart ripe gooseberries and stew them in a large cup of 
water till they are tender. Run them through the colan- 
der to clear, them of skins, then stir with the pulp a heap- 
ing teaspoonful of butter, a cup of sugar and the beaten 
yolks of thiee eggs. Pour them into the dish in which 
they are to be served, and cover with a meringue of the 
whites beaten to a foara with as many tablespoonf uls of 
sugar. Serve cold. 

Gooseberry KoU — Line a very deep pie-plate with paste 
and fill with stewed and mashei gooselj :-.-ie3 after they are 
seasoned with a teacupful of su2;ar uiir^ei with a heaping 
teaspoonful of eoi-n-starch, half a cup of water and a tea- 



GOOSEBEEKIES. ^1 

spoonful of butter. Cover with a thin upper crust and 
bake. It should be eaten with sweet cream or liquid 
sauce. 

Grooselberry Pie.— Cut off the blossoms and stems and 
fill with them a pie-dish lined with plain paste, spreading 
over the top one-third as much sugar by maasure, as of 
berries used. Slightly dredge with flour and spread over 
a thin crust pricked with a fork. Bake half an hour. 

Gooseberry Custard. (Dr. Holbrook).— Simmer threw 
pints of goosebeiTies over a slow Are till soft, then drain the 
water and rub the berries through a sieve. To a pint of 
pulp add four well-beaten eggs, a cupful of sugar and two 
tablespoonfiils of orange-flower water. Set over the fire 
and stir constantly till it becomes thick. When cold serve 
in custard glasses. Yolks and whites should be l>eaten 
separately. 

Gooseberry Pudding.— Stew a pint of gooseberries 
slowly a quarter of an hour. Butter a pudding-dish and 
prepare several slices of stale bread toasted a light brown. 
Dip each slice while hot in milk and spread with softened 
butter. Cover the bottom of the pudding-dish with pre- 
pared toast, then with a layer of gooseberries sprinkled 
with sugar. Add another layer of toast and then one of 
berries. Cover closely and steam in the oven by setting the 
dish within a largei one containing hot water. It will be 
done in half an hour, and may be eaten with or without a 
pudding-sauce. 

Spiced Gooseberries.— Cut off the blossom end of the 
fruit and to every six pounds allow two qu^'-ts of sugar and 
one and one half cups of vinegar, or two thirds of a pint. 
Put the latter over the fire, and when scalding hot pour in 
the berries with oneteaspoonful of whole allspice and cloves 
mixed, a few pieces of stick cinnamon and a trifle of green 
ginger root cut into bits, the whole of these tied in a thin 
muslin bag. Cover closely and let the gooseberries simnier 
till they are tender. Skim the fruit into jars kept in hot 
water, simmer the syrup, pour over and seal. 



83 FRUITS AND HOW TO USE IHBM. 



THE GEAPE. 

Among the most important and the most luscious of all 
fruits the grape thrives well in the middle and western 
portions of the United States. The foreign varieties, 
which can only be reared in graperies east of the Missis- 
sippi, grow most luxuriantly in California so that the pro- 
ductions of the vine are carried over a large section of the 
country. A fruit so beautiful and delicious ought to be 
raised in such quantities as to appear upon, every table 
during two-thirds of the year. 

Grapes are not only nnuiishing but are considered to 
have curative qualities. In Germany and Switzerland 
grape-cures are filled with patients who consume each 
from three to eight pounds of the fruit per day, generally 
with the best results, to which, no doubt, abstemiousness 
from a rich dietary contributes. 

Grapes should be washed and drained before eating. In" 
no other way are they so delectable as when fresh from 
the vines. Arranged with or without other fruit, they ai'e 
both lovely and refreshing at breakfast, luncheon or at 
dessert. 

Grape Short-Cake. (Mrs. Smithson).— Sift together 
half a pound of flour, a ooffeespoonful each of salt and sugar, 
and two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Work into this 
mixture a quarter of a pound of cold, well- washed butter; 
add gradually two gills of cold Doiled milk. Mix quiekl> 
with a knife. Dredge flour over the moulding-board and 
turn the paste upon it. Toss with the knjfe until it is well 
floured. Pat it gently with a floured rolling-pin and roU it 



GK\PES. 83 

down to half an inch in thickness. Put a plate on top of 
the paste and out round it. Cut out two round forms and 
bake them on a greased tin. When cool make an incision 
round the center of the edge and divide the short-cake. 

Kemove the seeds from a quantity of Malaga grapes with 
a raisin seeding machine. Arrange the grapes on the 
cake. Over the under or center layer of grapes put a layer 
of jelly, and ov^er the top layer of grapes put a covering of 
whipped or velvet cream. 

Grapes Spiced.— Stem and -wash wild grapes and boil 
till soft, then press through a coarse sieve. To every ten 
pounds of pulp add half as much sugar, an even table- 
spoonful of cinnam^on, a heaping teaspoonful each of cloves 
spice and pepper, a grated nutmeg and two quarts of 
vinegar. Boil slowly till it is as thick as catsup ought to be, 
then bottle. 

Grape Pie, STo 1. — One egg, one teacupful of sugar, one 
heaping teacupful of grapes. Beat the egg and sugar to- 
gether, then add the grapes, one tabJespoonful of flour and 
a little butter. Bake with two crusts. 

Grape Pie, No 2.— Remove the skins from the seeds 
and pulp and simmer the latter in p. porcelain kettle and 
press it through a, oolander to remove the seeds. Then 
put skins and pulp together, sweeten to taste, and pour 
into a pie-plate lined with paste after stirring in a heaping 
teaspoonful of flour if the grapes are very juicy. Bake 
with an upper crust. 



THE GRAPE FRUIT. 

The grape fruit or shaddock is less well-known than it 
deserves. No more refreshing or wholesome fruit grows, 
though on first tasting it the northerner is apt to pronounce 
it coarse if not unpleasant. To many persons it becomes 



84 FRUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

a more delicious fruif. than the orange. The abundant, 
acid and sUghtlj' bitter flavor serves to quench thirst, and 
it is considered by many to be a sovereign remedy for bil- 
iousness. 

The grape fruit should be peeled in sections, like the 
orange, which are then to be separated from the center 
and the entire bitter white membrane covering them should 
be removed. Then break open the pulp and serve as an 
unseasoned offermg to the Lares of the breakfast table, 
preceding the wheat or the oatmeal. 

It is a mistake to adulterate the grapo fruit with sugar, 
nevertheless there are those who sprinkle it plentifully 
with sugar overnight. In after years when its cooling 
and pleasant qualities are appreciated, the grape fruit will 
divide honors with its smaller cousin, the orange. 



THE GUAVA. 

This tropical or semi-tropical shrub yields an important 
dessert fruit. It is, however, known to the inhabitants of 
the cooler zones only through guava jelly, a rich conserve 
imported from the West Indies. The guava is cultivated 
in Florida, but the manufacture of guava is chiefly con- 
fined to the warmer Indies, 



HUCKLEBERRIES OR WHORTLEBERRIES. 

This pleasant and wholesome fruit, peculiar to the 
northern latitude, grows both on high and low Ijushes ac- 
cording to its species. Un hillsides and mountain clear- 



HUCKLEBEUKIES OK WHOBTLEBEREIES. 85 

ings, in old pastures and along purling brooks, the huckle- 
berry profusely ripens. 

It is not a highly flavored fruit but one greatly esteemed 
amongst a rural population, and one especially wholesome. 
Containing but little acid it needs but little sugar and is 
palatable with milk even -without sweetening. When ful- 
ly ripe two tablespoonfuls of sugar to a pint of finit 
will satisfy the most capricious desire for sweets. Thoy 
need to be carefully picked over, washed and stewed in a 
little water till soft. Huckleberries are especially nice, when 
cauv.ed, for pies in winter time or for a breakfast sauce. 
The Huckleberry is the "North American representative 
of the Whortleberry and includes the bluebeiry which is, 
lighter-colored, softer and sweeter than the huckleberry. 

Huckleberry Sauce.— Pick over and wash ripe fruit 
and strew with powered sugar. 

Huckleberries and Milk.— Into a quart bowl crumble 
crackers or a roll and a half ; fill with rich new milk or milk 
and cream, "half and half." Pour into the bowl half a 
cupful of huckleberries and stir together the contents. It 
is a nice dish for lunch. 

Huckleberry Griddle-cakes.- Mix together one pint 
of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder and one pint 
of milk, and stir in one beaten egg. Pick over a pint of 
fresh berries, wash, roll in flour and add to the batter. 
Pour from a pitcher on a greased griddle. 

Huckleberry Toast.— Pick over, wash, and stew a pint 
of berries, and pour over layers ofth in buttered toast. 
They should first be seasoned with sugar, and ought to 
haveplenty of juice. Cover with a plate and let them stand 
a half hour before serving, on the range or in a moderately 
cool oven. When baked in a pudding dish it makes a nice 
pudding. Finish with a lemon flavored meringue. 



86 FEUITS AND HOW TO USE TH EM. 

Huckleberry Corn Cakes.— Scald a pint of corn meal 
■with boiling water, add a heaping tablespoonful of floui- 
and milk enough for a rather thick batter. Mix in two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking-powder, two thirds of a cupful of sugar, 
good brown sugar is better than white, and a pint of huck- 
leberries. Bake on a griddle, in muffin rings, or iu the 
oven, making them half an inch thick. Chopped apple or 
raspberries may take the place of huckleberries. They need 
a warm oven. 

Huckleberry Sweet Cake.— One cup butter,' two cups 
sugar, three cnps of flour, five eggs, one cup of sweet milk, 
one teaspoonful soda dissolved in hot water, one teaspoon- 
ful of nutmeg, and the same of cinnamon; one quart ripe, 
fresh huckleb rries, thickly dredged with flour. Stir the 
butter and sugar to a erf am, add the beaten yolks, then the 
milk, the flour, and spice, the whites whipped stiff, and the 
soda. At the last stir in the huckleberries with a wooden 
spoon or paddle, not to bruise them. Bake in a loaf or card 
in a moderate but steady oven, until a straw comes out clean 
from the thickest part 

Huckleberry or Blueberry Pudding'.— Sift together 
a pint and a half of flour and one heaping teaspoonful of 
baking-powder, and into it stir one pint of milk, one well- 
beaten egg, a saltspoonful of salt and three-fourths of a 
quart of berries. Steam for two hours in a buttered mould 
and serve with hard or liquid sauce. 

Huckleberry or Blueberry Cake, No. 1,— Cream to- 
gether one rounded tablespoonful of butter, one half of a 
cupful of sugar, two-thirds of a teacupful of milk, and two 
scant cupfuls of flour, in which have been sifted two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking-powder. At the last stir in a cupful of 
blueberries and bake at once. This cake will hold aheap 
ing cup of fruit. 

Huckleberry Cake, No 2.— Cream together half a cup 
of butter and half a cup of sugar, add four tablespooiifuls 
of Indian meal and one of flour, a scant cup of molasses 
and two-thirds of a cup of milk. Sift in a teaspoonful of 



LEMONS. 87 

baking-powder, and at the last add two well-beaten e.^gs 
and a pint of berries. Bake immediately. 

Huckleberry Pie.— Into a large cupful of berries stir a 
half cup of sugar, a tablespoonful of hot water, and a heap- 
ing teaspoonful of flour, made smooth in cold water. Bake 
in a deep pie-iish with two crusts. 



THE LEMON. 

The celebrated tree of the Citrus genus which furnishes 
this pungent fruit is a native of the forests of Northern 
India, whence it has traveled along the mUd shores of tte 
Mediterranean. Leaping the Atlantic the lemon has be- 
come acclimated in the southern portion of our country 
and in California, though the finest lemonS are Baid by 
dealers in the fruit to come from Sicily. Something tn 
that volcanic and sulphurous soil is converted into the 
acid which is its chief value. 

The roughness observable on the rind of the lemon is 
owing t'l imbedded cells filled with an oil which is obtained 
either by distillation or expression. The peel is used for 
flavoring, and the abundant acid jxiice has acquired a world- 
wide value iu the arts, in medicine, in cooling drinks and 
syrups, in flavorings and innumerable 'dishes and as a con- 
stituent of perfumery. Because it is used so little as the 
chief ingredient very few recipes for the lemon are given, 
and these are chiefly under the head of Water-ices, Bever- 
ages, Creams, etc. The value of oranges imported into 
New York alone annually as estimated to be over two mill- 
ions of dollars. 

Lemon Pudding.— All kinds of plain puddings, flavor- 



88 FB.UIT3 AND HOW TO tJSE THEM. 

ed with lemon are called lemon puddings, the basis may be 
corn -starch, bread, or custard, and may be baked^ steamed 
or boiled. The following is an excellent bread pudding 
flavored with lemon. 

Lemon Mering-ue Pudding.— Scald four cups of new 
milk and pour over two cups of fine stale bread-crumbs, and 
let it stand half an hour. Into it stir one cupful of sugar 
and a rounded tablespoonful of butter, the yolks of three 
eggs, and the juice of one large or two smalllemons and the 
grated yellow rind of half of one. Beat all together well 
and bake in a buttered pudding-dish till it is just done 
through, not a minute more ; draw the pudding to the edge 
of the oven and cover with the stiff beaten whites, whipped 
with three tablespoonf uls of sugar, and flavored with lemon 
juice. Brown in the oven with the door left open. 

Liemon Fritters.— Boat three eggs light; it is better to 
have yolks and whites separate but they may be beaten to- 
gether. Stir in two cups of new milk, flour enough to 
makf a thin batter, the juice of one lemon, and lastly one- 
fourth of a teaspoouful of soda dissolved in a little water. 
Fry in hot fat and sprinkle with sugar. When it is done 
cover with a meringue made by beating the whiter with two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, and brown slightly in the oven. 

Liemon Pie. [Miss Hammond.) — Mix one cup and ahalf 
of sugar with two heaping teaspoonfals of flour: add the 
well-beaten yolks of six eggs and the whites of two eggs 
beaten stiff, the grated rind of one and the juice of two 
lemons, and one cup of ice water. Line two plates with a 
crust and rim, flU, and bakrt In a moderate oven. Make a 
meringue with the whites of four eggs and one cup of pow- 
dered sugar. 

Lemon Pie. (Miss Hayes.)— Beat together one cup of sug- 
ar and an egg; when thiclc and smooth add a tablespoonful 
of flour. Grate a little of the yellow peel from a good sized 
lemon and stir into the mixture. Then pee! the lemon, 
carefully removing all the pith, and with a sharp knife cut 
in thin slices, removing all seeds. 



LEMONS. 89 

Line a pie-plate with crnst, 'and have the top crust rolled 
ready to use; Ftir the lemon sliot'S with the egfg and sugar 
and pour into the plate, cover quickly and bake in a quick 
oven. 

Liemon and Raisin Pie. — Peel one large lemon , cut it 
in thin slices, and turn over it one cup of seeded raising 
which have been steeped till nearly tender in a little water. 
Steep again till the lemon is tender, add two tablespoonfuls 
of flour, made smooth in a little cold water, one cupful cf 
sugarand boil, stirring constantly, till it thickens. Bake 
in twocris s. 

Molasses Lemon Pie. —One cupfal sugar, one cupful 
molasses, one cupful water, one and a half tablespoonfuls 
flour, two lemons and one egg. This makes one pie. 

Liemon Cream Pie.— For one large pie, take the juice 
of two medium sized lemons and the grated yellow peel of 
one, a tablespoonful of corn-starch, a teaoupf ul of cold wa- 
ter, one of granulated sugar, and three eggs. Heat to the 
boiling-point half the water, the lemon juice, the rind and 
the sugar, and pour it over the remainder of the water into 
which the corn-starch has been mixed, stirring all the 
while. Set the whole back on the range and let it come to 
a boil again, then set it away to cool. When cold add the 
yolks of three well-beaten eggs, and bake in a deep pie-plate 
lined with paste. Bake half an hour, then cover the pie 
with a meringue made by beating the whites of the eggs to 
a stiff froth with two large tablespoonfuls of powdered sug- 
ar. Two eggs will make a pie good, though less rich. 

Lemon Custard Pie.— Grate the rind of one lemon 
and squeeze the juice on one teaoupf ul of sugar and a ta- 
blespoonful of flo ur, mixed together. Beat to a froth the 
yolks o! three eggs, and stir into them one cupful of new 
milk, then mix in the sugar, flour and juice, and bake in a 
plate lined with paste. 

Lemon Pie. (Catherine Owen.) — Half a cupful of fine 



90 FRUITS AND HOW TO tTSE THEM. 

bread-crumbs, just milk enough to swell tliem, two eggs, 
two tablespooniuls of butter, three of sugar, the juice of 
one lemon and jrrated rind of two. Beat sugar and butter 
to a cream, then the eggs and lemon juice, and lastly the 
bread and milk. Mix and bake in one crust with two long 
strips about an inch wide laid lightly around the edge so as 
to make it twice as thick as the bottom. Gently press the 
lower edge of this strip to make it adhere and pour in the 
mixture. If a meringue is desired, save out the two w^hicos, 
beat together with pulverized sugar till they are stiff, and 
spread over the pie when done. Return to the oven and 
brown lightly. 

Liemon Sliort-cake.— Make a plain biscuit or short-cake 
crust as described in Strawberry short-cake), and spread 
between the two or three layers composing it the yellow 
grated rind and juice of one large lemon mixed with one 
cup of sugar and one cup of fresh sweet cream. Serve at 
once with one cup of cream sweetened and flavored with 
lemon. 

Lemon Washington Pie.— Beat the yolks of three 
f gg3 and stir in one cupful of sugar, one cupful of flour, 
and one teaspoonful baking-powder and the beaten whites 
of the three eggs. Bake in three or four jelly-cake tins. 
When done spread between them this mixture. 

BoiHogether three fourths of a pint of water, one cupful 
of sugar, and a heaping teaspoonful of butter, and stir in 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, made smooth in a little cold 
water. When it thiokejis draw to the back of the stove 
and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs, and lastly the juice 
and grated yellow rind of a large lemon. 

Lemon Cake.— Any kind of plain cake flavored with 
lemon passes under this name. The following is good: 

Cream together two cupfuls ofsugarwithtwo-thirdsofa 
cupful of butter, add the beaten yolks of three eggs, then 
the beaten whites, two-thirds of a cupful of milk, three cup- 
fals and one-half of flou; and at the last the juice of one 
lemon. A little more than half a teaspoonful of soda 



LSMONS. 91 

should be sifte*^ wiip. tiie flour before that is mixed in, or it 
may be b>jatep ir^ jut^fe f^?ore stirring in the lemon juice. 

Lepaon Honey, JS^o. 1.— (Mrs. Rorer.) Beat the yolks 
of eix e^gs until light, add gradually, beating all the while, 
oi>o pound of powdered sugar. Beat a quarter of a pound 
of butter to a cream, add it to the yolks and sugar, beat 
well, and then stir in carefully the well-beaten whites of 
four eggs. Pour this into a double boiler and stir contin- 
ually over the fire until the mixture is about the consistency 
of very thick cream-; take ffom the fire, and add the grated 
rind of one and the juice of two lemons, mix, and turn into 
a stoneware cr china bowl to cool. 

There is also another recipe for a French honey, flavored 
with lemon, that is not so heavy and indigestible as the 
former. 

Frencli Honey. — Beat together a quarter of a pound of 
powdered sugar, and a quarter of a pound of butter; when 
light add one unbeaten egg, and beat again; stir this over 
the fire till it thickens, then take from the fire, and add 
the grated rind and the juice of one lemon, mix and turn 
oat to cool. 

Liemo'n Honey, No. 2.— Melt together three ounces of 
fresh butter and onecupofsugar, and stir into them the well- 
beaten yolks of three eggs into which has been mixed the 
grated yellow peel of one large lemon. Stir over the fire 
till it begins to thiciien, then add the juice of the lemon, 
and continue stirring till it is as thick as honey. Pour into 
jelly glasses and cover. Use very thin to spread upon lay- 
er cake, or as a flavoring in cooking. 

Lemon juice may often be used to advantage in place of 
vinegar, especially in salads. In regard to the uses oi the 
lemon the London Lancet says: 

" Few people knew the valueof lemon-juice. Apiece of 
lemon bcund upon a corn will cure it in a few days ; it 
should be renewed night and morning. A free use of 



93 PEUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

lemon-juice and sugar wi)! always relieve a cough. Most 
people feel poorly in the spring, but if they would eat a 
lemon before breakfast every day for a week — with or 
without sugar as they like — they would find it better than 
any medicine. Lemon-juice, used according to this rea- 
ipe, will sometimes cure consumption : Put a dozen lem- 
ons into cold water and slowly bring to a boil ; boil slowly 
until the lemons are soft, then squeeze until all the juice 
is extracted ; add sugar to yo;ir taste and drink. In this 
way use one dozen lemons a day. If they ca'.ise pain, les- 
sen the quantity and use only five or six a day until you 
are better, and then begin again with a dozen a day. Aft- 
er using five or six dozen the patient will begin to gain 
flesh and enjoy food. Hold on to the lemons, and still 
use them very freely for several weeks more. Another 
use for lemons is for a refreshing drink in .summer, or in 
sickness at any time. Prepare as directed above, and add 
wat-r and sugar. But ia OJ'der to have this keep well, 
after boiling the lemons squeeze and strain carefully; then 
to every half pint of juice add one pound of loaf or crush- 
ed sugar, boil and sUr a few minutes more until the sug- 
ar is dissolved, skim carefully and bottle. You will get 
more juice from the lemons by boiling them, and the prep- 
aration keepb better." 

An eminent physician also says of the lemon: 
" It is Huitable for all stomach diseases, excellent in 
sickness, ia cases of jaundice, gravel, liver complaints, in- 
flammation of the bowels and fevers. It is a specific 
against worms and skin complaints. Lemon juice is the 
best anti-scorbutic remedy known. It not only cures this 
disease, but prevents it. Sailors make daily use of it for 
this purpose. I advise every one to rub their gums with 
lemon juice to keep them iu a healthy condition. The 



MANGOES. 93 

hands and nails are also kept clean, whitej soft and supple 
by the daily use of .lemon instead of soap. It also prevents 
chilblains. Lemon is used in intermittent fevers mixed 
with strong, hot, black coffee, witho.it sugar. Neuralgia 
may be cured by rubbing the part affected with a cut lem- 
on. It is valuable also to cure warts, and to destroy dan- 
druff on the head by rubbing the roots of the hair with it." 
It is also excellent to use with a little w&.ter and no sug- 
ar in malarial diseases. 



THE LIME. 

In the United States the culture of the lime is product- 
ive of better results than that of the lemon, for which it is 
no inferior substitute. Like the lemon the lime belongs 
to the Citrus family. The fruit grows upon a small tree 
or shrub and is a native of A.sia though now common to all 
warm countries. The juice of the lime is used on ship- 
board as an anti-scorbutic, and from it is manufactured Cit- 
ric Acid. Whereyer lemon juice is needed, that of the 
lime can take its place. 



THE MANGO. 

The Man go, a nati ve of the East Indi es though naturalized 
in other warm countries, affords an excellent fruit, which, 
however, is too perishable for transportation to a distance 



94 FKUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 



NUTS FOE FOOD. 

The natural liking for nuts must have its origin in some 
physical want. Nothing is more full of nutrition than a 
nut and if eaten at a proper time, nothing is a better Bub_ 
stitute for animal food. Especially is this the case in win- 
ter when oil is desirable in the human economy. Physiol- 
ogists assert that nuts contain more ele.iients of nourish- 
ment than butter and meat combined. Furthermore 
they can be neither adulterated nor uncleanly, for Nature 
herself has secreted their richness from various unpolluted 
woodland stores. Salt should always be used with nuts. 

Hickory Nut Cookies.— Beat four eggs very iight, 
whites and yolks separately. Into the yolks stir in two 
scant cupfuls of sugar, and then the beaten whites. Add a 
pint of flour, a heading teaspooniul of baking-powder, ana 
a pint of nuts cut in small pieces and rolled in flour. Mix 
quickly and thoroughly, and drop a small spoonful at a 
time upon greased und floured pans. Place half a nut on 
the middle of each cooky and bake in a very moderate oven 
twenty minutes. In place of hickory nuts use raisins, 
seeded and chopped, cocoanut or currants. These cookies 
will keep along time, — if they are untouchea. 

Hickory Nut Macaroons.— Beat to a stiff froth the 
whites of three eggs and beat in a little at a time, a pint of 
powdered sugar, a tablespoonf ul of flour and a teaspoon- 
ful of corn-!-tarch. Into this stir a pint of finely chopped 
nuts and drop in small spoonfuls upon buttered pans. 
Bake in a moderate oven. 

Nut Cake, No 1,— Cream two cups sugar and one of but 



OEANGES. 95 

ter, stir in three well-beaten eggs, one cup of milk, threa 
cups of flour with two large teaspoonf uls baking-powder, and 
lastly two cups of any kind of nut kernels and one of stoned 
and chopped raisins. 

Nut Cake, No 2.— Cream three-fourths of a pint of sugar 
and half a cup of butter, add three-fourths of a cup of milk, 
the beaten whites of four eggs, and two cupfuls of flour sift- 
ed with two teaspoonf uls of baking-powder. Stir in one cup 
of walnut mf ats and a little salt. The nuts should be broken 
in small pieces and floured. Ice the cake and decorate the 
top in fanciful figures made with walnut halves laid in the 
icing before it has hardened. 



THE ORANGE. 

" Oranges that glow 
Like globes of Are, inclose a heart of snow 
Which thaw not in their flame, — " 

This delicious fruitage of one variety of the genus Cit- 
rus is justly esteemed all over the world. Associated 
with all the splendor and coloring of the tropics it holds in 
its golden globes a wealth of attractiveness beginning with 
the colorless buds and blossoms which adorn the bride of 
every country and race. Its juicy and delicious fruitage, 
appearing simultaneously with its pnre whits blossoms and 
its fragrant evergreen foliage are the delight of every trav- 
eler in the southern clime. 

Botanists are undecided whether the orange is a native 
of India or of China. Veiy likely it is indigenous to both 
countries. It does not matter since all warm regions now 
claim it as their own. 

Its cultivation is greatly on the increase in our own 
country, so that Florida and California are now sending to 
the markets of the Bast some pf tbe finest oranges ever 



96 FRUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM 

grown. It is exceedingly productive, one tree sometimes 
yielding 20,000 annually. 

There are various kinds of oranges, the names of -wiiicli it 
is unnecessary to specify. The bast oranges are the heav- 
iest, for light oranges have thick skins and these weigh 
tittle. The richest are the russet skinned. 

There are about as many ways of eating oranges as 
iheie are varieties. Perhaps the simplest is to cut a slice 
from the top and eat pulp and juice with the spoon ; but 
this requires a juicy fruit. The Havana method is as 
good as any. In this a fork is run from the stem end 
quite to the center. By holding the fork in the. left hand 
the right is left free to out away the peel and white skin 
leaving only the pulp. The Cubans then transfer the or- 
inge to the right hand and eat it at leisure. A favorite 
way with the Floridians is to cut the orange in two at 
.ight angles to the stem and using each hemisphere as a 
i„-up, eat the juice with a spoon. Others are only satisfied 
by peeling the fruit and separating the sections- 
Orange or Lemon Pates.— With the grated rind and 
pulp of two oranges or lemons mix the beaten yolks of six 
eggs, and one tablespoonf ul of sugar to each, two tablespoon- 
fuls of melted butter and two of water. With this mixture 
fill patty-pans lined with paste and add a raised rim of 
paste about the edges. Bake, and when done cover with a 
meringuti of the whites of eggs and six tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, set back in the oven and brown lightly. 

Orang-e Tapioca. — Wash and steep a cupful of tapioca, 
then simmer in a pint of boilLag water until the tapioca is 
clear. Peel and seed one dozen sour oranges, cut them iu 
slices: and stir into the boiling tapioca. Sweeten to taste. 
Cook, and serve with cream and sugar. 

Or-i, tige Compote,— Boil together half a, teacupf ul of 



0EA:;C E3. 97 

water and a pint of sugar; skim the syrup, and add the juice 
of one lemon. Peel a dozen juicy oranges and cut them 
across in the middle taking out the seeds, and drop them in 
the liot syrup, three or four at a time. Let them scald, 
skim out the sections and place in a flat dish; boil down the 
syrup Ave minutes, pour over them and set away to cool. 
This •■ akes a nice garnish and sauce for plain puddings, es- 
pecially when oranges are tart or hardly sweet enough to 
eat uncooked. 

Orange Tarts.— Beat together three fourths of a cup of 
sugar and one tablespoonful of butter, the juice of two or- 
anges and grated peel of one, and into tliem stir one tea- 
spoonful of corn-starch wet witli the juice of half a lemon. 
Beat thoroughly, and bake in patty-pans lined with paste. 

Orang-e Rolly-Poly.— (Marion flarland.) Make a light 
paste as for dumplings, roll in an oblong sheet, and lay or- 
anges peeled, sliced, and seeded thickly all over it. Sprink- 
le with white sugar. Scatter a teaspoonf ul or two of the 
grated yellow peel overall, and roll up closely, folding down 
the end to secure the syrup. Boil in a pudding-cloth one 
houx- and a half. 

Orange Cake. — (Mrs. Soovil.) Take two cups of sugar, 
two cups of flour, half a cup of water, the yolks of five aud 
the whites of three egg.s, the, juice and grated rind of one 
orange, and a suiall pinch of salt. Beat the whites to a 
stiff froth ; add the sugar, then the yolks, previously well 
beaten, then the flour, and lastly the orange. Bake in three 
tips. The cup used for measuring must be a small one. 
V/hen taken from the oven, spread between and on top of 
the cakes a frosting made with the whites of two eggs, 
the grated peel and juice of one orange, and enough of sug- 
ar to make it the consistency of ordinary frosting. 

Orange Cake.— (Mrs. Lincoln.) 
3 eggs, 
1 cup sugar, 
1 tablespoonful melted butter, 



»8 FKUITS AND HOW TO USB THEM. 

J cup milk, 
IJ cups flour, 
■^ teaspoonful soda, 
1 teaspoonful or»ani of tartar, 
1 tablespoonful orange juice and a little of the 
grated rind. 
Mix in the order given. Bake in a round shallow pan, 
and fill with orange cream. 

Orange Cream for Cake.— Put in a cup the rind of 
half and the juice of one orange, one tablespoonful of lem- 
on juice, and fill with cold water. Strain and put on to 
boil. Add one tablespoonful of corn-starch wet in cold wa- 
ter. Stir till thick, then cook over hot water ten minutes. 
Beat the yolk of one egg, add two heaping tablespoonf uls 
of sugar, stir into the starch, cook one minute, add one 
teaspoonful of butter and cool. 

Fill the cake with cream and frost with ornamental 
frosting. Mark the frosting like a pie in eight pieces and 
decorate each with a section of orange and ornamental 
frosting. 

[The above recipe, doubled, may be used for layer cake 
with orange flilling, for which see "Fruit Filling for Layer 
Cake."] 

Orange Custard, No. 1.— Beat the yolks of three eggs 
to a cream with one cup i f sugar, then beat in one table- 
spoonf al of butter. Add one cup of milk and the juice 
and a trifle of the grated yellow rind of o'ne large orange 
and the beaten wbice of one egg. With this custard two- 
thirds fill custard cups and set them in a baking pan in the 
oven. Half fill the baking-dish with boiling water, and 
steam till the custard is set. Then beat the two remaining 
whites of es-gs with two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and put a 
large spoonful of the meringue on the top of each custard. 
Brown slightly, take from the oven and cool. Use more 
m.ilk or less according to the richness of custard desired. 

Orange Custard, No. 2.— To the beaten whites of six 
eggs add the juice of four oranges and one cup of cold 



ORANGES. 9G 

water. Beat again and set away for an hour, also set the 
yolks in a oool place. Then beat them with one cup of 
sugarandaddtothe whites with the grated rind of one 
orange. Cook in a small saucepan set in hot water. Stir 
constantly, and when it thickens pour into small cups. 

Orange Pie, No. 1.— Beat lightly the yolks of three 
eggs with one cupful of sugar, then beat in one tablespoon- 
ful of butter. Stir in the pulp and juice of two oranges 
and the grated rind of half of one and one cupful of milk. 
Bake in a deep pie-dish lined with pastry, and when done 
cover with' a meringue of the three beaten whites with 
three tablespoonfuls of sugar. Brown slightly, cool and 
serve. 

Orange Pie, No. 2, -(Table Talk.) Beat a cupful of 
powdered sugar and a large tablespoonf ul of butter together 
until light. Moiste-a two even tablespoonf als of corn-starch 
with a little cold milk, and then stir it into a half pint of 
boiling milk; cook and stir one minate, then pour it 
quickly on the butter and sugar, add the grated yellow 
rind and the juice of an orange, mix, and add one egg, well 
beaten. Peel another large juicy orange, cut into thin 
slices and then cut each slice into quarters. Line a Wash- 
ington pie-plate with light paste and bake in a quick oven 
until done. Stir the orange slices quickly into the custard 
mixture, fill the baked crust with ihis, and place in a quick 
oven a fe y minutes to brown. While it is browning, beat 
the whites of two eggs until light, add two tablespoonfuls 
of powdered sugar and beat until stiff. Spread this over 
the pie, dust thickly with powdered sugar, and stand again 
in the oven until lightly colored. 

Orange Pie, No. 3. — Beat to a cream a teacupfnl of 
powdered sugar and one tablespoonf ul of butter; add the 
baaten yolks of three eggs, then the juice and grated rind 
of two oranges. Beat all together. Lastly stir iu lightly 
the whites beaten to a froths Bake with an under crust. 

Orange Short-Cake.— Cream together one half cup 



100 FRUITS AND HO"W TO USE THEM. 

butter and one cup of sugar, and into them stir one well- 
beaten egg, one half a cup of milk and one pint of flour 
into which has been sifted two teaspoonfuls of baking- 
powder. Bake in two sheets. Have six oranges peeled 
and seeds removed, sprinkle with sugar and place between 
layers. For sauce, use grated rind of two oranges, and 
juice of one, one half cup sugar, one teaspoonful of butter 
and two cups water; thicken with corn starch. Serve hot. 

Orange Baskets.— Cut as many oranges as wiU be re- 
quired, leaving half the peel whole for the baskets, and a 
strip half an inch wide for the handle. Remove the pulp 
and juice, and use the juice in making orange jelly. Place 
the baskets in a pan of broken ice to keep upright. Fill 
with orange jelly. When ready to serve, put a spoonful 
of whipped cream over the jelly in each basket. Serve in 
a bed of orange or laurel leave.s. 

Orange Sauce. — Make a clear syrup of half a pint of 
sugar to a pint of water. Let it boil and clarify, or skim it. 
While it is heating peel oranges that are not quite ripe 
enough to eat uncooked, and take ofif all the wh'te skin 
that can be removed without breaking the fruit. Separate 
the oranges into sections and drop into the boiling syrup 
and cook till they are thoroughly scalded. The juice of a 
lemon and a little grated peel may be added if that flavor 
is desired. If the oranges are not to be served at once, 
strain off the syrup, scald, and pour over the orange sec- 
tions again. 

Orange Pudding, Jfo. 1.— Two oranges— juice of both 
and giated peel of one — juice of one lemon, one h^. If -pound 
lady's-flngers, stale and crumbed, two cupfuls of milk, four 
eggs, one-half cupful sugar, one tablespoonful corn-starch 
wet with water, one lablespoonful melted butter. Soak 
the crumbs in the milk, beat and add the eggs and sugar, 
already beaten to a cream with the batter, next the corn- 
starch, and when the mould is buttered and water boiling 
hard, stir in the juice and peel of the fruit. Plunge the 
m uld directly into the hot water. Boil one hour; turn out 
and eat with very sweet sauce. 



OKANGES. 101 

Orange Pudding, No. 2. -Peel and cut five sweet or- 
anges into thin slices, taking out the seeds; pour over them 
a cofEee-cup of wliite sugar, let a pintof piilkget boiling Iiot 
by setting it in a pot of boiling water; add the yolks of 
three eggs, well-beaten, one tablespoonful of corn- taroh 
made smooth with a little cold milk, stirring all the time; 
as soon as thickened, pour over the fruit. Beat the whites 
to a stiff froth, adding a tablespoonful of sugar, and spread 
over the top for frosting; set in the oven for a few minutes 
to harden; eat cold or hot (better coUi) for dinner or sup- 
per. Peaches or other fruit can be substituted in their sea- 
son for oranges. 

Orange Pudding, No. 3.— Beat together half a cupful 
of sugar and an even taV)lespoonful of butter; add the beat- 
en yolks of three eggs, one cupful of milk, one cupful of stale 
fine bread-crumbs, and lastly the beaten whites of three 
oggs. Put a layer of the bread-crumbs on the bottom of a 
pudding dish, then a layer of orange marmalade, and so 
continue till the dish is full, using a cupful of marmalade 
in all. Bake fifty minutes or steam a little over an hour. 

Orange Pudding, No. 4.— Soak a scant pint of stale 
bread-crumbs or rolled cracker-crumbs in a pint of water 
for two hours, and then stir into them the grated rind of 
two oranges and the juice of five or six according to their 
Aze. Cream one large tablespoonful of butter with three 
of sugar; stir into it the beaten yolks of four eggs and the 
whites of two, and then mix with the crackers, and bake an 
hour in a buttered pudding-dish. Than cover with a mer- 
ingue of the whites of two or three eggs, and as many ta- 
blespoonfuls of sugar as there are whites, spread over the 
top, and brown ten or fifteen minutes. It should be served 
cold. 



103 PKUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. - 



THE PEACH. 

" Like balls of gold 
The peaches seemed, that had in Are been rolled." 

The peach season, short though it is, is full of delight 
for the lovers of this rich fruit. Like the apple it belongs 
to the order Rosacea but unlike that fruit it is very per- 
ishable. There are many sub-varieties of the tv70 princi- 
pal varieties, Freestones and CJlingstones, which are used to 
a great extent, not only when fresh, but when dried, evapo- 
rated or in cans. 

The Nectarine, which is vrithont doubt derived from the 
peach, is covered with a smooth skin. It is more delicate 
than the parent fruit and, if anything, more delicious. 
The Nectarine may be used in the place of the peach in 
all recipes wherever the latter is mantioaed. So may the 
Apricot. 

Peaches are best eaten peeled, sliced and slightly sugared. 
Sweet cream is a wonderful addition . 

Baked Peaclies, No. 1— Wipe the peaches so as to take 
away the surface and paek them in a small stone jar. Fill 
about two-thirds full and nearly cover the fruit with, water. 
Scatter sugar over them and bake in a slow oven, from one 
to three hours, according to the condition of the fruit 

Baked Peaches, No. 2.— Rub clingstones with a flannel 
cloth to remove the down, and arrange them in a stone iar 
which must not be quite filled. Pour over them enough 
water to one-third fill the jar and bake in a slow oven two 
hours. Before they are done pour over them one cup of 
sugar dissolved in a little boiling water. 



PEACHE3. 103 

Peacli Flummery. — Line the bottom of a glass or porce- 
lain dish with slices of st_le cake, not more than an inch 
and a half thick. Make a boiled custard out of a pint of 
milk and the yolks of four e^g?, and j list before serving 
pour it over the cake. On this spread a thick layer of peeled, 
sliced and sugared peaches, and over that a meringue made 
of the whites of four eggs beaten stifE with four tablespoon- 
f uls of sugar. 

Peach and Apple. — ^When peaches are scarce they may 
be used to flavor twice their quantity of apples. The latter 
fruit should be mellow and delicately flavored. Peaches 
and apples ought to be sliced thinly, piled in layers with 
powdered sugar and served at once with or without 
whipped cream.. 

Peach. Custard. — Press a few etewed or canned peaches 
through a sieve, using from five to eight, according to size, 
and add a pint of new rich milk. Stir this into three well- 
beaten eggs, whites and yolks together, with half a cupful 
of sugar, and bake in a deep pie-plate lined with paste. 

Peach Manloca Pudding.— Stir iuto two cupfuls of 
milk four tablespoonfuls of manioca and let this come to a 
boil. Then mix in two beaten eggs, two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, two more cupfuls of milk and a trifle of ]em.on peel 
or fresh grated rind. Peel and slice a dozen peaches, 
sprinkle with sugar and pour over the manioca, the whole 
to bo baked in a buttered pudding-dish. 

Peach Bread- Pudding.— Pour boiling water on a 
pint of fine stale bread or cracker-crumbs and stir in a 
tablespoonful of melted butter. Let it stand till it has 
thoroughly soaked. Into it stir two well-beaten eggs and 
half a cupful of sugar. On the bottom of an oiled pudding- 
dish put a thm layer of batter and over it a layer of sliced 
peaches. Dredge with sugar, then cover with batter again. 
Continue until the dish is full having batter at the top. Eat 
with sweetened cream. It is a good way to cook sour or 
late hard peaches. 



104 PRUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

Peachi Pudding Boiled,— Make a thick batter of one 
cup of flour into which is sifted a teaspoon ful of baking- 
powder, three-quarters of a cup of milk and two well-beat- 
en eggs. Stir in a3 many peeled and sliced peaches as it 
will fairly hold, turn inio a buttered dish, which must not 
be quite filled, plunge into boiling water, which must not 
cease boiling for an hour or it will be heavy. Serve with 
hard or liquid sauce. 

Peacli Batter Pudding.— (Helen Campbell.) One can 
of peaches drained of their juice, three eggs well beaten, 
one tablespoonful of butter, half a teaspoonfal of sj,lt, two 
cups of prepared flour. Butter a pudding-dish holding 
nearlj two quarts and put in the drained peaches. Sift 
salt and flour together, rub in the butter till perfectly fine, 
beat the eggs and add to the milk, stirring it slowly into the 
flour. Beat to a smooth batter, pour over the peaches and 
bake in a quick oven. It will require' about half an hour 
and should be served at once. 

Sauce for Peach. Pudding— Bring the juice poured 
from the can of peaches to the boiling point. Dissolve a 
tablespoonful of corn-starch in half a teacupf ill of cold 
water, add to the juice and boil two minutes. Then add a 
small teacupf ul of sugar, and the grated rind and juice of a 
lemon. 

Peach Pudding Baked.— (Mrs. Goodale.) Pare and 
halve a quart of fine, ripe pdaohes and stew them gently 
with sugar to taste. While still hot place in a pudding 
dish and paur this batter over them. To one quart of milk 
take six eggs and six tablespoonf uls of flour, beat the yolks 
and whites separately, stir the flour to a paste with half a 
cup of the cold milk, put the remainder over to boil and 
add the yolks to the flour. When the milk boils stir it into 
the mixture and keep stirring till it thickens, then add the 
whites, quickly beating the whole and pouring it over the 
peaches. Bake half an hour. This is an excellent batter 
for cherries or other fruit. Eat with a sauce of thin 
custard. 



PEACHE . 105 

Peach Pudding.— (Mrs. Rorer.) Rub butter the size of 
an egg into a pint of floar, add half a teaspoontul of salt 
and a large teaspoonful of baking-powder. Pare six large 
peaches, take out the stones after cutting them in halves. 
Beat one egg till light, add it to the ro^k and pour this 
over the flour; give a thorough beating and pour into a 
greased baking-pan. Have the batter about one inch 
thick. Put the peaches over this, the stone sfde up, fill the 
hollow places with sugar and bake in a quick oven thirty 
minutes. Serve hot with cream and sugar. Apples may 
be used instead of peaches. Peaches should be pared, out 
in halves and stoned. 

Peacli and Tapioca Pudding.— Boak in a quart of 
water overnight one large cupful of tapioca and in the 
morning cook till iS is soft, then add a pinch of salt, six 
heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar and the juice of one quart 
of nice peaches stewed soft bat not broken. In a buttsred 
pudding-dish pour a layer of tapioca then lay in the peach- 
es and over them pour the remainder of the tapioca. Bake 
an hour and eat with sweet cream. 

Peacli Dumpling. —Line half a dozen well-oiledjcups 
with paste and fill them with finely-sliced peaches sweet- 
ened to taste, cover with more paste, then set them in a 
pan half fillej with boiling water and bake or steam forty 
minutes. Turn out on a dish and serve with liquid sauce. 

Peacb. Fritters. —Bsat two eggs with four tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, add a small cupful of milk and a large capful 
ot flour, enough for a thick batter, with a teasp joaf ul of 
baking powder. Into the batter stir a large half pint of 
peaches cut fine, and fry in hot fat. 

Peach Cobbler.— Pill a shallow pudding-dish or deep 
earthen pie-plate with ripe peeled peaches, leaving in the 
pits to increase the flavor of the fruit. Add cold water 
enough to half fill the dish and cover the whole with a light 
paste rolled to twice the thickasss used for pies. Out slits 
across the middle prick with a fork and bake in a slow ov- 



106 I'E.UITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

en about three-foarths of an hour. The peaches should be 
sugared according to the taste before putting on the crust. 
Served either warm or cold, the crust should be inverted, 
after being out into sections, and the peaches piled upon it. 
Kat wii h sweet C4^aIn. 

Dried Peach Pie. — Soak dried apricots or peaches over 
night, after first washing them thoroughly, then cook very 
slowly on the back of the stove fully two hours. Add sugajr 
to ta«te justas it is taken from the stove. Arrange the 
pieces and juice, of whish there should be but little, on a 
deep pie-plate lined with paste, and ei Iher cover with a thin 
paste or cross the top with narrow twisted strips, diamond - 
wise. If the fruit fs much broken in pieces sift it, and aft- 
er baking cover the top with a meringue made with the 
white ol one egg and one tahlespoonful of sugar, and brown 
in a mod irate oven. Evaporated peaches are now so del- 
icately prepared that in winter they maKe a substitute for 
the fresh fruit. 

Peach Meringue.— To every pint of stewed and canned 
peaches, sweetened to taste, stir in the beaten yolks of two 
eggs. Bake in a deep pudding dish fifteen minutes, then 
cover with the whites of the two eggs, beaten till very light 
with two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Brown in the oven and 
serve cold with whipped cream. For. peaches substitute 
any other stewed fruit at hand if need be. 

Peach Butter.-^Peel and pit very ripe peaches and 
cook till they become a thick marmalade. Then add a very 
little sugar and let it set on the back of stone till the fruit 
is quite solid. Pack in stone jars while hot and keep cool. 



PIAES 107 



THE PEAE. 

The long-^-' >Ai pear tree bears a fruit whicli is every 
year Lecoipiij^ more common and justly prized. In 
Southern Europe and Asia, the pear gTows wild as a large 
shrub, but cultivation has ameliorated and sweetened the 
character of the fruit so that it is counted one of the best of 
the temperate zone. Over a thousand varieties h ave been pro- 
duced„ only a comparatively f evv of vyhich, hovcever, are knovvn 
to the housekeeper. Summer pears are worthless when al- 
lowed to ripen on the tree. Plucked when mature and kept 
covered with flannel in a dark chamber, the pear becomes 
mellow and rich. It is fine as a table frqit, making with 
the peach, the plum and the grape, a breakfast or dessert 
dish fit for any occasion, satisfying as these combinations 
are to the esthetic sense and the palate. 

Pears and Cream.— Take ripe mellow pears, peel and 
slice them and sprinkle lightly with powdered sugar. Just 
before sending to the table pour over the layers whipped 
cream and serve at once. 

Pears Stewed.— Select small pears free from knots and 
worms, wash them and arrange in a deep kettle and pour 
over ihem enough boiling water to come within two inches 
of the topmost. Cover and simmer slowly on the back of 
the range. When they begin to be tender, when pricked 
with a fork, pour over them half a cup of miilasses and half 
a cup of brown sugar for every gallon of fruit. Stew till 
they are soft but not broken, take them out and pour over 
them the syrup. Larger pears may be peeled before stew- 
ing. 



108 FRUITS AKD HOW TO USE THEM. 

Pears Baked. — Take larger pears tht n are used in stew- 
ing, selecting those of nearly uniform size. Arrange tlinni 
in a deep balcing-dish, into which pour half a pint of hot 
water, in which has been stirred half a cupful of sugar. 
Cover with a lid or inverted dish and bake slowly, fre- 
(luently basting them with the syrup till they are tender. 
They are excellent with a dressing of cream. 

Pear Tarts.— Cover patty-pans with pie-paste and fill 
each with three-quarters of pears, peeled, cored and stewed 
in a rich sugar syrup till tender. Preserve the syrup for 
pudding sauce. , 

Prickly Pears. — This fruit of the cactus is often 
brought from Mexico where it is freely eaten. It is thickly 
covered with spines and must be handled carefully, even 
when the hand is protected v/ith a napkin. Cut a slice off 
the ends, then peel it, cut the pup into slices which may be 
eaten unseasoned or after dusting with powdered sugar 
and flavoring with the juice of an orange. 

Pear Klosse.— (A German Dish.) Pare, core and 
mince finely half a dozen ripe pears. Mix with them halt a 
grated nutmeg, two ounces of clarified butter sugai-, to taste, 
four well-beaten eggs and as much finely grate'l bread to 
make the mixture stiff and smooth. Mould into egg-shape 
balls with the bowl of a large spoon, drop the e in boilipg 
water and simmer half an hour. Serve on a hot dish with 
powdered sugar and a trifle of cinnamon. Send milk 
sauce to the table with them. 



PLUMS. 109 



THE PERSIMMON. 

The Persimmon tree of the Atlantic and Southern States 
belongs to the ebony family, one member of -which bears 
the date plum. Its fruit is extremely astringent until aft- 
er hard frosts and just before decay, when it is eagerly 
sought by those who relish its sweetly insipid taste. The 
Japanese persimmon bus for the last two years been nat- 
uralized in Florida, and its fruit, greatly similar to a smooth 
orange-colored plum tomato, is now marketed in northern 
cities. It is eaten raw like the native persimmon. 



THE PLUM. 

Some of the most delicious fruit is found upon the plum- 
tree, though unfortunately it supers gi'eatly from the attacks 
of the curculio. Prof. Gray declares that " the difference 
between the cherry and the plum is hard to define," but in 
ordinary experience the later and richer fruit is more 
justly esteemed. But for the insects which prey upon it 
and the diseases to which it is subject, the plum would be- 
come an important fruit food. 

Prunes are the dried fruit of ceitain kinds of plums, the 
finefst of which are called Prunelles. Prunes are exported 
from Turkey, Spain and Germany, but the best foreign 
fruit comes from Fja loe. California now bids fair not 
only to equal but exceed all imported fruit. Year by year 
since the process of raising and curing plums approhea 



no FKUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM, 

perfection, the California prune is showing its superiority 
in point of appearance and flavor. It is much better 
cured by the process of evaporation than by the French 
method of drying, in which a portion of the flavor is lost. 

Plum Pie. — Stew any kind of plums and sweeten the 
fruit just before it is taken from the stove. Remove the 
pits and pour the pulp into a paste lined pie-plate. Dredge 
with flour, cut an aperture in fJie top crust and bake. 
Dredge with powdered sugar and serve cold. 

Dried Plum Pies. — Soak dried plums overnight, 
.stew tliem gently, and sweeten to taste. Cover a deep pie- 
difh or shallow pudding-di&h with paste, over which spread 
a thin layer of the plums, then a thin layer of paste. Add 
another layer of plums, cover with paste a second time and 
bake. 

Pium Roll. —Stew the plums till they are soft, remove 
skin and pits, and run them through a uoarse sieve. Make 
a batter of one cupful of milk and a lialf cupful of butter, 
thickened with flour enough to mako a soft ptiste, and one 
teaspoonful of baking-pawder. Bake in three layers, be- 
tween which spread plum sauce. Serve warm or cold. 

BjPlum Dumpliugs.— Sift three cupfuls of flour with 
two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, and cut into it a heap- 
ing teaspoonful of butter, wet with water enough foi a soft 
dough, and stir in a cupful of plums, either stewed or 
canned. Steam in cups set in a pan of hot water in the ov- 
en about half an hour. Invert the dumplings on dessert 
plates and serv.e with liquid sauce. 

Plum Pudding.— Stew a quart of plums, remove the 
pits and pour them, after sweetening, into an earthen pud- 
ding dish. Over them lay a soft biscuit dough or with a 
batter made ''jy a cupful of sweet cream or rich milk, one egg, 
and a teaspoonful of baking-powder in flour enough for a 
thick batter. Steam one hour or bake half an hour. In- 
vert the pudding and eat with ha-d sauce. 



PINE-APPLES. HI 



THE PINE-APPLE. 

The pine-apple, •which comes to such perfection when 
properly cultivatad, in tropical America, the Bahamas and 
South Florida, is, without doubt, desfcmed to have a greater 
popularity than it has j'et received. When neglected the 
fruit is coarse and lough, and it will be the duty of South- 
ern California tabling the pine-apple to a high degree of 
perfection. It is a perishable fruit ; fully one-third of that 
■which is imported is wasted, but it is too good to remain 
undeveloped in hardy qualities. 

The pine-apple grows upon a hhrub having along narrow 
leaf, the whole rising from two to three feet above the soil. 
As it ripens the fruit is curiously and beautifully shaded, 
and is protected by leaf spines or daggers,'Several of which 
grow from each plant. About 200,000 pine-apples are 
. annually siiipped from Nassau alone. 

The natives of Manila manufacture from the leaves of 
the pine-apple a beautiful and expensive fabric termed 
Pina muslin. Perhaps the value of the fiber may conduce 
to the culture of the fruit. 

Pine-apple Sauce.— Boil together a oup/ul of sugarand 
three-f ourths|of a cupful of water and thicken with a dessert- 
spoonful of arrowroot, made smooth in a little cold water. 
Take from the fire, and when cooled a little stir in a cupful 
of gi'ated pine-apple, the juice of one lemon and two oran- 
ges. Use as a pudding sauce. 

Pine-apple »n:l Potato Pudding'.— Press through a 
coarse sieve tuough parboiled sweet potatoes to make a, 



lia FBUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

pint of pulp, which must be added to a little less than a 
half-pint of sugar creamed with an even tablfispoontul of 
butter and the well-beaten yolks of three eggs. Mix in the 
potato slowly, beating all the while to keep the mixture 
light, then stir in one large cupful of new milk, another of 
grated pine-apple, half a teaspoonful of vanilla flavoring 
and lastly the well. beaten whites of three eggs. Bake in a 
pudding-dish in a moderate oven. Serve with cream or 
pine-apple sauce. By the same recipe make a banana pud- 
ding taking a cupful of chopped bananas in place of pine- 
apple. 

Pine-apple Pudding-, No. 1.— Choplfin^opecanof pine- 
appie or as much fresh fruit as will equal a cariful in meas- 
ure. Mix tog ?ther one half-cupful of fine cracker or bi ead 
crumbs, one and one half cupfuls of granulated sugar, aheap- 
ing tablespoonful of butter, and four yolks of fggs, the lat- 
ter well beaten. Into this latter stir the pine-axjple, and 
bake. Cover the top with the meringue made with the 
whites and three tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, and brown 
in the oven. Serve warm or cold with liquid sauce. 

Pine-apple Pudding, No. 2.— (The Cook.l Cover the 
bottom of a pudding-dish with light puff paste and place 
on it a thin layer of shredded pine-apple. Strew over it a 
tablespoonful of sugar, then another layer of pine-apple. 
Cover with a crust with a hole cut in the center, and bake 
half an hour. 



THE POMEGKANATE. 

Only a denizen of a warm climate fully appreciates the 
pomegranate, which has lately become a familiar sight in 
Northern markets. Whoever once learns to like the pome- 
granate ever afterwards highly esteems its slightly acid 
flavor. At all times the pomegranate is an ornamental 



PEUNES. 113 

shrub, whether covered with rich crimson flowers or with 
fruit. It growH iu all warm countries, especially in the 
southern portion of the United States. It is used un- 
cooked, most -varieties showiug an innumerable quantity of 
small seeds when broken open. 

" From splintered cups the ripe pomegranate spilled 
A shower of rubies." 

Though indigenous to the Old World the pomegTanate 
is now popular tbrpugh all the Southern States. The rich 
deep crimson of its lovely blossoms and fruit makes it a con- 
spicuous object when planted either singly or in groups. 
When fully ripe the pomegranate is used uncooked or 
made into a preserve. 



THE PEUKE. 

The prune is the dried fruit of a certain kind of plum, the 
finer sorts of which aie called prunelles. France has here- 
tofore produced the finest varieties but Turkey, Spain and 
Germany also export the fruit. Now, however, California 
is a competitor for the favor of the housekeeper. 

Asa mildly laxative fruit requiring but little sweetening 
the prune bids fair to become a universal favorite. 

The fruit is sometimes dried by artificial heat, but in 
our favored western climate the sun is all sufficient. As 
the plum averages ten tons to the acre when the trees 
have attained their full growth, which they do the seventh 
year after setting out, it is expected that large orchards of 
them will soon <3ome into bearing. 



114 FRUITS AISTD HOW TO USE THEM. 

Prunes StcTFed.— Wash the prunes and soak them 
three hours in a httle water. Put them in a saucepan 
with enough water to cover them, the same in which they 
have been soaked, and to every pound of prunes allow a 
small cupful of sugar, three cloves and a stick of cinnamon 
or the peel of half a lemon. Simmer, not boil, till the 
fruit is quite soft. 

Prune Pudding, No. 1. — Soak a pound of prunes 
overnight, sweetening them to taste, and stewin the morn- 
ing. Remove the pits and cut the prunes into small pieces. 
Beat the whites of eight eggs to a froth and gradually stir 
them into the cold prunes, beating all the while. Bake at 
once, about twenty-five minutes. When the pudding is 
cold it is greatly improved by a dressing of sweet cream, 
sweetened and beaten to a froth. Stir up the prunes once 
while bakine:. 

Prune Pudding, No. 2.— (Mrs. A. A. Lincoln. 1 Make 
a small mould of lemon jelly. Bail large selected prunes 
slowly until very tender, taking care to keep the skins un- 
broken. Drain and place In a glass dish. Br.iak up the 
jelly all about so that it will have the appearance of being 
made together. Pile whipped cream (made as for Char- 
lotte Russe, one pint of cream and half a cupful of sugar 
flavored with one teaspoonful of vanilla whipped together) 
over the prunes and jelly. 

Prune Custard.— (Mrs. F. Harkins.) Slowly stew the 
fruit an hour and a quarter in a porcelain-lined kettle. 
Remove the seeds and skins by liand. and rub the pulp 
through a colander or strainer. Hive suiHijient juice to 
make thu pulp quite thin. Return it to the stove and heat al- 
most to boiling. Foreaoh pintoffruitstir/n two well-beaten 
eggs; remove immediately and stir in lemon flavoring or 
any tart extract desired. Set away in a mould and serve 
with cream. 

Prune Pie, No. 1.— Prepare the prune as for custard, 
and to each cupful of fruit add a cupful of thin cream or 



QUINCES. n;; 

rich milk, the yolka of two eggs, well-beaten, and four 
tablespoonfals of sugar. Whip the whites separately, 
flavor with pine-apple and cut into it the prune just before 
it is put in the oveu. Line a pie-dish with thin paste, pour 
in the prune, and bake quickly. Over the top spread the 
white of an egg, beaten with a tablespoonf ul of sugar and 
also flavored with pine-apple. Return to the oven to 
brown. 

Prune Pie, No. 2.— Stew the prunes, remove the 
stones, stir in two tableiipoonf uls of sugar and the same 
quantity of currant jelly or sour apple sauce, or a dessert- 
spoonful of lemon juice. Dust flour over the fruit and baKe 
with" an upper crust. 



THE QUINCE. 

This fragrant fruit, so highly valued for marmalades and 
jellies, is the product of a shrub whicL made its way west- 
ward, with so many other modern necessities, from the 
Levant. The quince shrub, — it never attains any consider- 
able size, —belongs to the order Eosacae, like its cousins the 
apple, plum, peach and pear. It is hardj', easily cul- 
tivated and the fruit is used for many purposes, even the 
mucilaginous seeds being employed in the pharmacy and 
for the arts of the toilet. The aroma and flavor of the 
quince are much' prized in cooking, especially in making 
desserts. Eecipes for the use of this fruit will be found 
under the head of Jellies, Marmalades, Preserves, etc. 

■Quince Pie. — Peel, core and stew quinces till so't, then 
press through a colander. Sweeten to taste and l)ake in 
one crust. Cover the top with a meringue made by the 
beaten whites of two eggs and two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Brown sligl.tly in the oven. This is just as good if the fruit 
is half apple and half quince. 



116 FKUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

Quince Honey.— (For Griddle Cakes.) Make a syrup 
of two pints and a half of pulverized sugar and a scant pini 
of water and let it boil ten minutes. Then add two quinces 
peeled and grated, and boil ten minutes longer. 



THE EAISIN. 

That dried fruit of sweet grapes known as tbe raisin is 
an important minor adjunct of the caisine. Formerly 
raisins were brought only from Sicily, Turkey, Calabria 
and Spain, buttherapiddevelopmeat of the raisin industry 
on the Pacific cciast is a matter of surprise to all interested 
in the culture of fruit. The domestic raisin, it is now ad- 
mitted, is cheaper than the foreign, while also in every way 
fresher and better. 

The white Muscat grape of Alexandria is the principal 
■variety used ia California. The slips are set out in a 
sandy soil and the vines, though staked at first, are trained 
so as to dispense with support and protect the fruit from 
the direct rays of "the sun. The stem grows no more than 
a ya'rd ia height, and underneath the lateral branches hang 
heavy bunches of green translucent fruit. 

The first crop matures about the middle of August, the 
eecoud ripens a month later. Three years after planting 
the vinea begin to bear, but it takes three yfears in addition 
to bring them to full maturity. As the grapes ripen 
Chinei-e laborers cut off the branches and lay them in 
wooden trays measuring five feet square and three inches 
deep. These are exposed to the sun in which the fruit 
begins almost immediately to ferment. At the end of 
from ten to fourteen days the upper half of the grapes 
having changed to a deep purple under the chemical rays 



EAISINS. 117 

of the sun, empty trays are laid upon those that are filled 
and their contents inverted to expose the uncured sides 
to heat and light. In another week or sa they are put into 
"sweat boxes" to equalize the moist are, and removed to 
the "cooling house," where they are la pt two weeks long- 
er. After the clusters are sortsd from the loose grapes 
the raisins are fa)ly packed in "London Laj'er" style, 
making as choice a table fruit as can be found in any 
Hiarket of the world. The production in the year 1888 
■was nearly 900,000 boxes, which found a ready sale, some 
of it in foreign countries. 

How to seed Raisins.— Spread a damp cloth on the 
table aad on it place a bowl for receivinof the stoned fruit. 
■With the raisins on the left, a bowl of water in which to 
dip the fingers, when they become sticky on the right, it is 
easy to squeeze the raisins between the thumb and fingtr 
wii h one hand, and hold the pen -knife which is used to re. 
move seeds with the other. Tlie seeds will drop on the 
cloth. 

Raisins Stewed. — Scald large raisins in boiling wa: er 
]et Ihem stand ten minutes, then remove the seeds. Boil 
them slowly till tender, sweeten to taste, andif any flavor ig 
desired use lemon juice. They make a nice winter lunch 
sauce. 

Raisin Pie. — Boll two cups of raisins slowly for an hour 
in sufBcient water not to have them very dry. When cool re- 
Tuove the seeds. Line a pie-plate with paste, over which 
sprinkle a scant half cupful of sugar and a tablespoonf al of 
flour. Pour in the raisins, cover with an upper crust, and 
bake. 

Raisin Puffs.— Take one cup sugar, two eggs, one- 
fourth cup butter, one-fourth cup sweet milk, one teaspoon- 
f ul baking-powder, and flour to make a rather thick batter, 
one cup raisins, and flavoring to taste. Grease as many 
coffee cups as yoa desire puffs, and fill each half full. 



118 FKTJITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

Place in a steamer over boiling water. Serve with sweet- 
ened cream. 

Raisins and. Rhubarb Pie.— Cut rhubarb into inch 
lengths and stew as usual, or rather scald in boiling water. 
To every cupful of the rhubarb then add half a cupful of 
raisins that have been seeded and stemmed. Bake as usual 
between two crusts after having been sweetened to taste. 

Raisins and Rice. — Seed raisins enough to make one 
cupful and a half, and let a quart of fresh water come to a 
hard boil. Into it stir three-fourths of a oup of rice, very 
slowly, and theu the raisins. Boil rapidly twenty-flve min- 
utes. If there are signs of sticking to the bottom of the 
kettle stir care."ully with a fork, but do not break the 
grains. When each grain is tender pour oil the water, if 
any is left, turn raisins and rice into the dish in which they 
are to be served, stand in a cool oven, uncovered, or on the 
back of the stove a few minutes and serve with sugar and 
cream. A richer dish hi made by cooking the soaked rice 
with milk in a double boiler. 

Raisin and Rice Pudding.— Cook two- thirds of a 
cupful of washed rice in a quart of new milk till it is soft. 
Then stir in one cupful and a half of milk, one cupful of 
sugar, a tablespoon ful of butter, one teaspoonful of cinna 
mon, and one and one half cupful of seeded raisins. Bake 
slowly nearly two hours. 

The above is only one of many ways in which raisins are 
used in puddings. 

Raisin Pudding. — lilix together one scant cupful of 
butter witn one cupful of milk, three-quarters of a cupful of 
molasses, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, and half as much 
cloves, with flour for a thick batter. Add an even teaspoon- 
ful of soda and one pound of seeded raisins. Steam four 
hours. 

Raisin Pie. —Seed one pound of raisins and boil slowly 
one hour in a little water. Into them stir two tablespoon- 



RAsPBEEKIfiS. 1 1d 

fills of flour made smooth in a little cold water, one cupful 
of sugar and the juice of one large lemon with a little of 
the grated peel. Bake in two crusts. This amount will 
make two large {.ies. 

Kaisin Spirals. — Two eggs, one cupful of sugar, one -half 
cupful of butter, one cupful of chopped raisins, one half a 
cupful of sour milk, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in the 
milk, spice to taste, and suffljisnt flour stirred in to make 
the mixture very stiff. Roll out quite thin, cutscrips about 
two inches wide and four long, and roll around the finger 
as If curling the hair. Pry iu butter till of a delicate 
brown. Sprinkle with granulated sugar. 

Kaisin Cake. —(For others see Miscellaneous.) One cup 
of sugar, half a cup of butter, three eggs, half a cup of 
sweet milk, one cup heaping full of chopped raisins, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, and about two cups of 
flour; flavor with nutmeg. Put the butter, sugar, well- 
beaten eggs and milk together, then stir in the flour and 
raisins. The latter should be slightly warmed and floured 
to prevent sinking to the bottom. 



THE EASPBERRY. 

Raspberry Buns. — Mix six ounces each of ground rice 
and flour, rub in a quarter of a pound of lard, the same of 
white sugar, and a teaspoonful of baking-powder. Make 
into a stiff paste with the yolk of one egg and a little milk. 
Divide iiito small balls, hollow each and inst^rt a little 
raspbc-ri-y jam, close up neatly and dip into beaten white 
of the egg, flatten a lirtle and bake on a tin in a sharp 
oven. They will crack during the baking and show the 
jam through. 

Raspberry Blanc-mange.— In a scant quart of boiling 
new milk stir four tables^ioonfuls of corn-starch made 
smooth in a quarter of a cupful of uiilk, and add to it, while 
thickening, four tablespoonf uls of sugar. When cooked stir 



130 FKUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

in half a cupful of the juice from canned raspberries oi 
from fresh berries swoetened. Turn Into d. mould, cool and 
Serve with sweet cream. The juice from cherries, berries, 
or peaches may also be used to flavor blanc-mange. 

Rasplierry Pudding, No. 1.— Beat the yolks of two 
eggs and stir into a capful of sugar and a large tablespoon- 
ful of butter creamed together. Then add one and one 
half cupf uls of milk, the whites of two eggs beaten stiff and 
enough flour for a rather thick cake batter, with a heaping 
teaspoonf ul of baking-powder. Lastly mix in a pint of fresh 
raspberries. Bake and eat with berry or any other liquid 
sauce, or with custard. 

Raspberry Pudding',N'o.3.— Boil one pint of milk and 
into it stir two large tablespoouf uls of whe it flour which 
have been made smooth with a little cold milk. Add two 
eggs beaten with half a cupful of sugar. Pour a large cup- 
ful of stewed raspberries or raspberry jam over the bottom 
of a pudding-dish, pour over the custard and bake. The 
same pudding may be baked in pudding-cups. First turn 
in a spoonful of berries, then two-thirds fill the cup with 
custard. Set the cups in a dripping-pan, pour boiling water 
to half till it and steam in the oven half an hour. 

Raspberry Pudding, No. 3.— Boil a pint of rich new 
milk or milk and cream, a,nd thicken it with four tablespoon- 
fuls of flour (which is always far nicer than corn-starch for 
thickening), made smooth ina cupful and a half o raspberry 
juice. Boil till it thickens, stirring constantly. Then stir 
in one cupful of sugar and serve cold in glasses with 
whipped cream. Any other fruit juice may be substituted 
for that of raspberry. 

Raspberry Pie.— Bake in two crusts a large half pint of 
well- sweetened berries with a fourth o' a cupful of water 
mixed with one teaspoonf ul of flavoring. 

Raspberry Short-cake.— Rub three tablespoonfuls of 
butter or lard into a quart of flour, sifted with three tea- 
spoonfuls of baking-powder, until it is fine, tlien add milk 



STRAWBERRIES. 121 

until it is as soft as it can be rolled out. Handle a& little aa 
possible. Make it about half an inch thick, bake, and invert 
the bottom of the cake for the layer of berries, Pile them 
on an inch thick with bits of batter, dredge with sugar and 
put over them another crust made and baked like the first. 
When cut in sections, pour over sweet cream or wiiipped 
cream. In place of it use a sauce made by creaming to- 
gether three times as much sugar as butter, then adding an 
egg, white and yolk beaten stiff, and then stirring in, slowly, 
half a cupful of rich milk. It is a substitute for cream. 
Strawbt-rry short-cake is made in this manner, also peach 
short-cake. The latter fruit is peeled and sliced fine and 
sugaj-ed. This cake may be eaten warm or cold. 

Raspberry Roll.— Cut thin pie paste into square strips, 
spread with raspberry jam, roll over, tie at the ends an d 
bake. 



THE STRAWBEREY. 

This most delicious berry of all that grows is best served 
fresh from the vines with sugar and cream.~ K the plants 
are muJcheil, as they should be, the fruit needs no washing; 
otherwise they should be carefully picked over, placed in a 
colander and cold water allowed to run through till the 
sand and dust have ail passed out. Cap them afterward, 
just before serving, and let each person sugar them accord- 
ing to taste. 

A beautiful dish is made by filling a crystal bowl with 
large crimson selesterl strawberries, served uncapped. 
They are held by the stems and dipped in powdered sugar, 
one by one. A more luxurious way is to heap high a 
generous plateful and stand by each a tiny sugar-holder 
and oream-jug. It is a fitting concomitant of June roses, 
sunshine and greenery. 

It is a mistake to eat the strawberry with cake or ice- 



123 FEUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

cream. Under these blandishments its true flavor is 
dulled if not lost. A roll or a biscuit with fresh unsalted 
butter affords a fitting background for the indescribable 
and unapproachable flavor of a fruit which appeals so ex- 
quisitely to three senses, those of sight, smell and tasts. 
Sydney Smith could not help saying "Doubtless God 
could have made a better berry than the strawberry but 
He never did. " It vi'as a stupid world that did not say it 
when the fruit firtst ripened. 

Like all fruit, perfest strawberries are best served entire 
and uncooked,, Heat injures that fine volatile flavor which 
is apart of their individuality. When cream ia plentiful 
it makes a good change to crush the beiTies, press them 
through a sieve, and beat them into thick sweet cream. 
They may be spread upon short-cake and between its 
layers. Garnish with a ring of ripe large berries about the 
edge and a little pyramid in the center. 

It was the true poet and artist who wrote 

"O raaivel, fruit of fruits, I pause 
To reokou thee. I ask what cause 
Set free so much of red from heats 
At core ot earth and mixed such sweetn 
With sour and spice; what was that strengrth 
Which out of darkness leugth by length 
Spun all thy shining thread of vine. 
Netting' the fieldsin bond as thine, 
I see thy tendrils drink by sips 
From grays and clover's smiling lips, 
I see the wild bees as they fare, 
Thy cups of honey drink but sp^re." 

Strawberries and Whipped. Cream.— Sift powderecj 
sugar over a layer of hulled and washed strawberries, 
arranged in a deep dish, and covrsr with strawberries again, 
then with su^ar, till the dish Is nearly filled. This should 
be done just before they are served. Poiir over them a 
large cupful of cream whipped with the whites of two 
egg^ and two tablespoonf uls of powdered sugar. 

Strawberries and Oranges.— CJover a quart of straw- 
berries with powdered sugar, pour over them half a tea- 
cupful of orange j uice and serve at once. Very delicious. 



STKAWBEEEIES. 133 

Crushed Strawberries.— Where strawberries a-e small 
or inferior in appearance they may be crushed, sweetened 
ana mixed with the beaten whites of two or three eggs. 
Berries and eggs should first be thoroughly chilled on ice, 
then served as soon as mixed. 

Strawberry Mould.— (fj-ood Health.) Prepare some 
strawberry juice by putting fresh berries in a jar and 
placing it in a kettle of hot water until the juice flows 
freely from the berries, then strain. Have a half cupful of 
sago soaked for an hour in just water enough to cover. 
Boil the sago in a quart of the fruit juice until thick like 
jelly. Pour into moulds, put in a cold place, and when 
needed serve with sugar and whipped cream. 

Strawberry Custard — Make a boiled custard with the 
yolks of five eggs, a quart Lf milk, half a cupful of sugar 
and a trifle of flavoring. Crush and strain one pint of berries, 
mix in half a cup of powdered sugar and gradually beat 
this into the well-beaten whites of the four eggs with two 
or three tablespoonf uls of sugar, according to the acidity 
of the fruit. Serve the custard in shallow dishes with 
two tablespoonfuls of the float upon each. 

Strawberry Short-Cake, Ifo. 1.— Into a pint of flour 
sifted with a heaping teaspoonful of baking-powder rub an 
even tablespoonful of butter. Stir in milk enough for a 
very soft dough, a half pint will be sufficient. It is to be 
quickly handled without rolling; flatten it out with the 
hand about three-quarters of an inch thick; it will be 
double that height when baked. Time, about eighteen 
minutes. Take from the oven and cut it in large sections 
or squares wiih a hot knife to prevent heaviness, and tear 
each section apart with the fingers. Butter the split sides 
and over them spread fresh berries either whole and dredg- 
ed with^ugar or crushed and sweetened. Pile one section 
on its other half and serve with cream if possible, if not 
with sauce made as described in Raspberry short-cake. 
A good sized short-cake should double this recipe. If 
made a little thicker it can be torn apart while entire. 



134 FRUITS AND HOvV TO USE THEM. 

Invert the top, cover with berries and proceed as before. 

Another way Is to roll into four thin pieces, fitting each 
to a jelly tin. Butter two of them on the tins, very lightly, 
and lay a second piece of dough over the first. When 
baked tear them apart, butter, cover with lierries and pile 
one on the other. This m thod prevents the possibilioy of 
heaviness and insures the short-cake good when cold. A 
thin frosting over the top is excellent. 

Strawberry Short-Cake, Ifo. 3.— Mix two heaping 
teaspoonfuls of baking-powder with one quart of flour. 
Beat one eg"?, mix in two tablespooafala of malted butter 
and one of sugar, with nearly one pint of new milk, and 
stir all together. Make it thin as can be handled, knead 
little and bake in two or three pans. Run a hot knife 
around the edges, pull apart with the fingers, butter 
the split sides, and over them spread fresh berries, either 
whole and dredged with sugar, or crushed and sweet- 
ened. Pile one section on the other, and se^ve. if possible, 
with cream. The cake should be about three-fourths of 
an inch thick before baking, and from fifteen to eighteen 
minutes will be time enough. 

Strawberry Sliort-Cake, No. S. -(Cxood Health.) Beat 
together one cupful of thin cream, slightly warmed, a 
tablespoonful of yeast, and two small cupfuls of flour. Set 
ina warm place till very light. Add sufficient warmflour to 
mix soft. Knead thoroughly for fifteen or twenty minutes. 
Divide into two equal portions, and roll into two sheets 
about one-half iach in thickness, making the centers a 
very little thinner than the outside, ?o that when risen they 
will not be highest in the center. Place latins, and set in 
a warm place until perfectly risen, or until they have 
doubled their first thickness. Bake quickly. 

Prepare the fruit by chopping or mashing, if large, 
sweeten to the taste, and add a little cream if desired. 
Spread one cake with fruit, and cover with the other. 

Strawberry Pudding-.— Make a jam by mashing fresh 
strawberries and sweetening to the taste. Spread slices of 



STEAWBEEEIES. li!5 

light whole wheat bread with the jam, and pile them one 
above another in a pudding dish. Pour over the whole 
thin cream sufficient to moisten well ; cut into pieces and 
serve. A simple custard may be used in the place of the 
cream if preferred. 

Strawberry Dumplings.— (Table Talk.) Put one pint 
of siftedflourinto abowl, rubintoit twoounces of butter, 
add a teaspoonful of salt, a heaping teaspoon ful of bak- 
ing-powder and sufficient milk to moisten, about one gill: 
mix quickly, take out on a board and roll out into a sheet a 
quarter of an inch in thickness, cut into cakes with a round 
biscuit cuf.ter, put about three strawberries in each cake, 
fold them over neatly and steam about twenty minutes. 
While they are steaming make the 

Strawberry Sauce. 

Beat two ounces of butter to a cream, adding gradually 
four ounces or a half cup of powdered sugar, then add 
twelve strawberries, one at a time, mashing and beating 
until the whole is perfectly light. If it has a separated or 
curdled appearance, add a little more sugar and stand in a 
cold place until wanted. 

Strawberry Pie. — Line a pie-plate with thin paste and 
set in the oven till nearly baked. Take from the oven and 
fill with sugared berries, dredge with flour, cover the top, 
diamond-wise, with narrow strips of paste, return to the 
oven and finish baking. 



136 FEUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 



THE TAMAEIND. 

The fruit of this beautiful leguminous tree is delight- 
fully acid. It is preserved with sugar ia the tropics 
where alone it is found. A native of Africa aad India, 
the tamarind grows to the height of sixty feet. In the 
midst of its thick foliage gleam white blossoms which soon 
turn yellow and ripen into fruit po ds from three to six 
inches long. Inside of the hard shell is the pulp containing 
seeds. The pulp, which is acid and juicy, is used for a 
cooling laxative drink. 

Tamarinds may be kept by stoning them and packing in 
layers in glass jars, spreading eaoh layer with, fine white 
sugar. Cover with sugar and seal 'ip tight. 



MISCELLANEOUS. IST 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

Fruit Soup.— (Philadelphia Cook Book.) One pint of 
d'anberries or currants, two quarts of water, one teacupful 
raisins, one cupful dried apples, one teaoupful drle J paars, 
two tablnspoonfuls corp-staroh, one half pound of sugar ; cut 
the apples and pears into small pieces, cover with lukewarm 
Wiiter and soak oue hour. Stem and seed the raisins. Put 
the cranberries or currants into the water and boil fifteen 
minutes, then press them through a sieve. Return to the 
soup kettle and add the pears, apples, and raisins; boil all 
together one hour. Moisten the corn-starch with a little 
cold water, add it to the boiling soup, stir constantly until 
it thickens, add the sugar and serve. 

Fruit KoUs. — Take bread dough ready for the oven and 
roll it thin, spread thinly with butter, sprinkle with cur- 
rants, seeded and halved raisins, sugar, and a little cinna- 
mon, cut into three inch wide strips, an droll up like jelly- 
cake. Lay them flat in a baking-tin or pan, cover them, set 
in a warm place and bake when light. They should be 
eaten within three or four days. 

Ambrosia.— Slice pine-apple very thin, or pick it apart 
from the center with a fork, sprinkling it thickly with 
sugar, and cover the top with grated cocoanut. 

Berry Cobbler. — Fill a deep pie-plate of earthenware 
with berries of any kind, cherries or other fruit, dredge 
with sugar and pour in a little cold water if the fruit is not 
very juicy. Cover the whole with a light pie-paste much 
thicker than usual, or with biscuit crust, prick with a fork 
and bake three-fourths of an hour. If the fruit is hard let 
it simmer half an hour onjthe top of the stove before making 
the crust. Served either warm or cold the crust should be 
cut in sections aod tVse inverted on dessert plates befoi* 



128 FEUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

piling on the fi-uit. It is a good way to dispose of fruit that 
is not perfectly ripe. 

Berry Musb.—Simmer a quart of berries in a pint of 
water, sweeten to taste, and stir in a heaping teaspoonful 
of corn-starch, wheat flour or arrowroot to give the berries 
consistency. Serve cold with cream. If made stiffer the 
mush can be cooled in moulds for a summer dish. 

Fruit and Bread. Dessert.— Heat any kind of fruit, 
either fresh or canned, boiling hot and sweeten to taste. 
Butter thin slices of bread with which line the bottom of a 
deep dish and cover it with the hot fruit. Add other slices 
of bread and a layer of fruit until the dish is full, having 
fi-uit CD the top. Bat while it is warm. 

JTraifc Whip.— Sweeten to taste either strawberries, rasp- 
berries, nectarines or peaches, mash the fruit and to every 
quart allow the whites of four eggs well beaten. Set on th^ 
ice and "serve with or without cream. 

Jellied Fruit.— Make a stiff jelly with isinglass as di< 
rected upon the label. Ii berries are to be used or any 
,iuicy fruit, mix the expressed j nice with the isinglass, in- 
%tead of water. In a fancy mould or a pyramid pour in 
two inches of jelly, then a layer of the fruit, when the jelly 
has set. Add more jelly and fruit and when cold serve with 
cream. Peaches cut in halves are fine, so are all kinds of 
berries. Peaches should be peeled and pitted. 

Fruit and Sago.— Soak a teacupful of sago half an hour 
in a teacupful of cold water and boil it till it is clear, adding 
just enough water to cover it. When it is transparent pour 
a little into a mould which has been wet, then put in a few 
tablespoonfuls of stewed apricots, berries, preserved cher- 
ries, peaches or plums, and after that more of the sago, and 
alternate with the fruit. Set on the ice and turn from the 
mould when served, as it will become a solid jelly. Serve 
with real or mock cream or boiled custard. 

Fruit Toast,— Toast nicely slices of stale breaw, butte' 



MISCELLANEOUS. 139 

them thinly and pile in a broad, shallow serving-dish. Over 
them pour st<3wed fruit, such as raspberries, huckleberries, 
or blackberries. Canned fruit is as good as fresh. Fruit of 
any kind must be sweetened to taste. Cover with an old 
plate and set for a few moments in a moderate oven, to 
allow the juice to soak the toast. Serve hot. 

Fruit Pot-Pie. — Butter a deep cooking-dish and put in 
the botti m a pint of berries or more, fully half that will be 
used. Make a light biscuit dough and pat it into a round 
and lay it on the fruit. Pile the remainder of the fruit on 
thf> dough and sprinkle with sugar. Set the kettle over 
a slow fire and into one side pour enough boiling water to 
nearly cover the pie. Cover closely and boil gsntly twenty- 
flv e minutes. Slide the pudding on a platter and serve with 
liquid sauce. 

Fruit Cake, No. 1.— Beat three eggs till light, cream 
one cup of sugar and one of butter, and mix with the eggs; 
stir in one cup of molasses and one of sweet milk, then four 
cups of flour and a trifle over (a little more than one quart), 
then one rounded tablespoonful of baking-powder, a tea- 
spoonful each of spice, cassia, and cloves, and lastly one half 
pound of see^Jed raisins, the same quantity of Zante currants 
and a few thin slices of shredded citron. This will make 
two good sized loaves. Bake iii a slow oven. 

Fruit CaJte, Wo. 3.— Beat together the yolks of three 
eggs and the white of one, add one cup of creamed butter 
with one cup of brown sugar. Stir in one cup of molasses, 
one teaspoonful each of cloves and cinnamon, three cups 
of flour and three teaspoonfuls of baking, powder. At the 
Ipst stir in one pound of seeded raisins warmed and floured, 
and one pound of shredded citron. Bake two hours in a 
slow oven. Frost with the two reserved whites beaten with 
one cupful of powdered sugar and one teaspoonful of corn- 
starch. 

Fruit and Blanc-Mange.— Boil for a few minutes five 
rounded tablespoonfuls of dissolved corn-starch in a quart 



130 FEUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

of milk. Pour it immetllately over a quart of ripe peaches 
peeled, quartered and thickly sprinkled with sugar. It 
is to be eaten cold. In place of peaches use berries, mel- 
low pears, apples, jam of any kind or stewed quinces, plums 
or cherries. 

Peacli-Blossom Cake. — One cupful of powdered sugar 
and half a capful of butter, creamed together, half a cupful 
of sweet milk; beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, 
stir butter, sugar and milk thoroughly together, add the 
whites, and lastly a teaoupful of flour in which one tea- 
spoonful of baking-powder and one lialf a teaspoonful of 
corn-starch have been sifted. Flavor with lemon or peach. 
Grease cake-tin and line with paper. Bake in a moderate- 
ly quick oven, and when a straw will pierce the cake with- 
out sticking, take from the oven and sandwich with finely 
grated cocoanut and pink sugar. Frost sides and top with, 
clear icing, and sprinkle this with powdered pink sugar. 

Jam KolL— Beat three j oiks of eggs Ught with one cupful 
of sugar, then a tablespoonful of milk and the stiffly beaten 
whites. Stir in one cupful of flour and a heaping teaspoon - 
ful of baking-powder. Bake in long shallow tins, spread 
with jelly and roll up and tie the ends while warm. Serve 
in thin slices. 

Fruit Flummery. — Line a glass dish with thin sponge, 
or any other kind of plain cake or with lady's- Angers. Over 
the pieces, just before serving, pour a plain thin boiled 
custard made with the yolks of three or four eggs. Upon 
that spread a layer of peeled and sliced oranges, pears, 
plums, peaches, fruit sauce of anj'kind, such as jam, jelly 
or marmalade. Cover this with the whites of the eggs beat- 
en with pulverized sugar to a stiff froth, and eat at once. 

Fruit Tarts. — Line small round or scalloped cake-tins 
with pastt! rolled thin, and bake. Just before serving, at 
breakfast, luncheon or tea, fill with any kind of stewed 
fruit, such as strawberries, raspberries, cherries, currants, 
plums or xears. Sprinkle with sugar and serve with or 
without cream. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 191 

Snowfrult.— Slice apples, peaches or pears, and soatte; , 
between the layers, fresh grated coooanut and sugar. Bbi- 
ries of any kind may b,:; used instead of larger fruit Frost 
the top lightly with cocoanut and sugar. Eat with or with- 
out cream. 

Evaporated or dried, fruit.— This can be made most 
palatable if it is swelled in water overnight before cooking. 
It needs a thorougli washing in two or three waters, then 
let i t steep on the back of the stove till morning. Add more 
water if neoessarj', and when the fruit is soft throughout 
let it cook slowly till it seems perfectly tender. Evaporated 
apples should be pressed throUjjha colander to render them 
perfectly smooth. Sugar ought not to be added till just as 
the fruit is ready to be taken from the fire. A little lemon 
juice and peel, those ever- ready givers of flavor, may be 
used where the fruit seems flat and tasteless. A few Zante 
currants well washed and soaked or raisins heighten the 
taste of an insipid fruit, not otherwise. They should be 
steeped with it. To preserve theshape, and, it must be said, 
to perfectly preserve the flavor, wash and simmer rapidly 
till it is tender. It shoidd be closely covered with agate or 
earthen. 

French Pancakes with Jelly.— Six eggs, two cupfuls 
of flour, one saltspoonful of salt, two tablespoo.ifuls of su?- 
ar, the grated rind of a lemon. Boat the whites and yolks of 
the eggs separately. Add one pint of milk and stir with 
other ingreJients. Lastly, ad<l one tablespoonfid of melted 
butter. Butter a frying-pan, pf)ur in a ladleful of batter, 
and fry quickly; then spread on the cake a teaspoonful of 
melted currant-jeil.>, and roll up. Servf six cakes at atime. 
Any kind of jelly may be used. 

Fruit Fritters.— Soak a teacupfnl of fine bread crumbs 
in a cup of hot milk till they are very soft, then stir in a tl- 
blespoonful of flour wet with two tablespoonfuls of cold 
milk. Boil till it thickens, stirring to prevent lumps. To 
this add the wall-beaten yolks of three eggs, when it is sut- 
ficiently cool, then half a teacupful of jelly or jam, or small 



132 FBUIT8 AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

berries, and lastly the well beaten whites. Fry at once in 
hot fat. 

Fruit Dumplings, No. 1. — Into one pint of flour sift 
one heaping teaspoonf ul of baking-powder, and rub into it 
one rounded tablespoonful of shortening, either beef snet, 
drippings or butter, making it as fine a,b pins' heads. Into 
it siir with a spoon a scant teacupful of water or enough, 
according to the flour, to make a thin batter; if too thick 
it will be heavy. Have ready in a shallow saucepan or 
earthen dish one pint of stewed fruit of any kind, either 
apples, berries, cherries, peaches or plums, into which 
drop the batter, spoonful by spoonful. The fruit may be 
fresh or canned, but must not be too juicy, and must be 
boiling rapidly. When the batter is dropped into it, it will 
run together into one mass. Cover at once and closely, and 
let it boil, without raising the cover or lifting it from its place 
for twenty minutes. If perfectly prepared the crust will be 
light and spongy. Dish immediately into dessert plates and 
serve, as delay may cause the dumpling to fall. It must not 
be mixed till it is cooked. If there is superfluous juice, use 
it in making a liquid sauce for the dumpling. Where milk 
is used in place of water in its preparation, no shortening is 
needed. 

Fruit Turn-overs.— (H. Annette Poole.) For the crust 
take one cupful of milk, one egg, one hpjf-cupful of sugar, 
shortening the size of a small walnut, one scant teaspoon- 
ful of soda and two of cream of tartar, add flour and roll 
out about an eighth of an inch thick. Cut out as large as a 
saucer, put a spoonful of fruit on one half, turn the other 
over it, leaving a rim around the edge which is to be wet 
and turned over. Be very careful tD press the edges to- 
gether to prevent the escape of the fruit. Crimp the edges 
■wiyi the fingers, place carefully in fat so hot that a bit of 
the dough rises immediately in it, and tarn them, carefully 
as soon as they rise to prevent them from burstiflg open. 
Brown them evenly, turning as necessary, and be sure tJiat 
the crust is done before lifting them out. They may be 
tried with a small-tined fork which should come out clean. 
The fruit should be very thick that the juice may not run 



MISCELLANEOUS. i:r; 

out of the pies. These turn- overs are good inaile out of tart, 
dried or evaporated apples, properly soaked, stewed and 
seasoned. 

Fruit Stewed..— Peaches, greengages, plums and apri- 
cots are to be neatly peeled and stoned and laid in a sauce- 
pan with a pint of cold water to a quart of fruit; over it 
<iistribute a proper amount of sugar, and just before the 
fruit comes to a boil skim well. Stir from the bottom of 
the saucepan with a wooden spatula to prevent burning, 
and take from the tire when tender, keeping them closely 
covered to retain the flavor. When it is desired to retain 
the skins prick them with a large needle and plunge into 
boiling syrup. 

Syrup for preservinjj Fruit.— To seven pounds of 
granulated sugar add five pints of cold water; stir till well 
heated but do not let it boil. Set aside to use in canning 
fruits or stewing them for sauce. 

Fruit Pies and Tarts.— (Alessandro Fillipini.) The 
chef of Delmonico in his book "The Table" directs that 
pies and tarts of peach, apricot, pear, plum, cherry, 
huckleberry, gooseberry, currant, pine-apple, cranberry, 
strawberiy, raspberry and blackberry shall be made in the 
following manner: After linitg the bottom of the pie-dish 
or tart-mould with paste in the usual way, cover it wi^'h a 
thin layer of apple marmalade (or apple- sauce) over which 
arrange the fresh fruit above the apple. Then dust with 
powdered sugar and bake in a moderate oven twenty 
minutes. Atthe end of that time draw them to the oven 
door and sprinkle the edges lightly with sugar, then leave 
them in the closed oven two mhiutes to allow the sugar to 
melt thoroughly. Remove them from the flre, put to cool 
for twenty Hiinutes, and then spread evenly over the fruit 
one and one-half ounces of apple jelly. Strawberries, 
raspberries and blackberries are strewed uncooked over 
the marmalade baked in paste, and over that spread a 
layer of the apple jelly. 



m PKUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 



PEUIT PUDDINGS. 

Fruit Puddings.— All plain puddings are greatly im- 
proved by spreading over them, after baking, a thick layer 
of jam, jelly, or. the pulp of stewed fruit. Cover the top 
with a meringue made by beating the whites of one, two or 
three eggs with as many tablespoonfuls of sugar, and then 
returning to the oven just long enough to brown lightjy. 
The fruit converts an insipid dish into one whioh recom- 
mends itself to any palate. Paddings of simple rice or 
bread are in this way made pleasant to both sight and 
taste. Frequently th« necessity of rich >«teaming sauces 
which are both extravagant and unwholesome are thus ob- 
viated. It is impossible to describe the many changes 
which may be rung from the apple, cherry, berries of all 
kinds, peaches, plums, quinces, and cocoanuts, but which 
any intelligent housekeeper can vary according to wish and 
time. If jams and jtllies are put up with less sugar than 
usual, that is a little less than pint and pound, the result will 
be more agreeable than where the old measure is adhered 
to. In a dark, dry, cool cellar such fruit will keep equally 
well, especially if canned. 

Fruit Pudding, No. 1.— Pour one quart of boiling 
milk over three-quarters of a pound of bread-crumbs add 
six tablespoonfuls of sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, 
three eggs, well-beaten, and half a teaspoonlul of extract 
of vanilla. Put two cups of strawberry, raspberry or peach 
jam into a mould, pour in the batter and stei.m for two 
hours. Cover the mould while steaming. It makes a de- 
licious dessert. 

Fuuit Pudding-, No. 2.— Mix tog<;ther one cup of mo- 
lasses, one cup of cliopped suet, one of milk and three of 
flour with two teaspoonful.i of baking-powder, one large 



MISCELLAKEOUS. ISsS 

cupful of seeded and chopped raisins and the same quanti- 
ty of Zante currants. Season with nutmeg. Steain three 
hours. Serve with any favorite liquid sauoe. 

Fruit Putltlliig, No. 3.— Into one quart of scalded 
milli stir two rounded tablespoonfuls of Indian meal, two 
tabJespoonfuls of flour, one tabfespoonful of butter and 
two-thirds of a cupful of molasses. Let it thicken, stirring 
all the wliile to prevent burning. Pour it into a buttered 
pudding-dii>h and stir in a large cupful of seeded raisins 
and a teaspoonful of ginger. Set in a moderatd oven and 
occasionally stir up from the bottom. At the end of half 
an hour stir in a teacupful of cold milli, oi more if it 
seems needed. Bake, without stirring, half an hour longer. 

Fruit Pudding, No. 4.— Soak one cap of stale bread- 
crumbs in one pint cf hot milk; add one tablespoonful of 
butter, one cupful of sugar, onesaltspoonfulof salt, and one 
saltsj)0onful of spice. When cool, add throe eggs, well 
beaten. Add two cups of fruit, eitiier chopped apples, rai- 
sins, currants, canned peaches, or. apricots, - one, or a mixt- 
ure of two or more varieliee. When Using canned fruit 
drain it from the syrup, and use the latter in making a 
sauce. Vary the sugar according to the fruit. Turn into a 
buttered pudding- mould and steam two hours. 

Fruit Minute Pudding, No. 5.— Measure out one 
quart of rich new milk, reserving half a pint in order to 
wet five large rounded tablespoonfuls of sifted flour. Hea,t 
the larger portion of the milk, together with one even cup- 
ful of sugar, to a boil in a iarina kettle, and turn the hot 
mixture gradually over the cold milk and flour, stirring all 
the while to prevent lumps. Return it to the kettle and 
cook it till it thickens, which will be about ten minutes 
after it begins to boil. Take it off the snove and beat while 
it is cooling. When half cold add sliced bananas, or whole 
strawberries, whortleberries, raspberries, blackbfrries, 
sliced apricots or peaches. Serve ice cold. The amount 
of fruit will be determined by the taste of the maker. 

A delicious variety of the same pudding may be made by 



130 FKUITd AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

leaving out the fruit and replacing oae-'.ialf pint of milk 
by the same quantity of strong coffee. Again, a chocolate 
pudding may be substituted by using on" square of choc- 
olate with the quart of milk and cooking it just as for the 
fruit pudding but minus the Iruir. 

Fruit and Cake Pudding, No. 6.— In a buttered pud- 
ding-mould put a layer of fine cracker-crumbs or plain 
cake; if the former moisten these with milk, then a layer 
of jam and a layer of cake crumbs. Over this strew 
grated or desiccated cocoanut, and over all stale cake- 
crumbs. Steam the pudding two hours. Eat with .sweet 
cream. 

Fruit Pudding, No. 7.— Line a baking-diah with a 
light puff pasre and over it strew a layer of shredded "pine- 
apple. Sprinkle with powdered sugar and add a layer of 
thinly sliced oranges, seeded and sugared. Continue with 
bananas and repeat the layers of these three fruits till the 
dish is full. Go\ er with paste and bake to a light brown. 

Fruit Pudding, No. 8.— Cut in slices half a pound of 
any kind of stale cake, sponge is best, and soalt an hour in 
warm milk, then beat up lightly adding a large teaspoon- 
ful of butter if sponge cake is used, one well-beaten egg, 
yolk and white separate, and a dessertspoonful of sugar. 
The whole should be slightly thicker than ordinary cake 
mixture. At the last stir in a large tablespoonful of 
quince or orange marmalade, or chopped pine-apple, peach, 
cherries, berries, apricots or plums, and bake in a buttered 
' pudding-dish in a moderate oven. If desired a meringue 
can be poured over the top, made by beating the whites of 
two eggs and two tablespoonfuls of powdered tsugar to a 
stiff froth. When the pudding is done cover with the mer- 
ingue, return to the oven, and brown slightly. In this case 
use the beaten yolks of the two eggs for the pudding. 

Fruit Pudding, No. 9.— Cover the bottom of a but- 
tered pudding-dish with crumbs of plain, stale cake mixe 1 
with cracker-crumbs, and moisten them with a little milk- 



MISOiiLLANEOirS. 137 

Over this put a layer of citron, seeded raisins and figs, can- 
died cherries, bits of marmalade or berry jam, and a few 
blanched almonds oat in quarters. On this strew another 
layer of crumbs, and over the whole pour a custard made 
with two cups of milk, three eggs and three tablespoonf u's 
of sugar. Cover it and let it soak half an hour, then set in 
hot water in a large dripping-pan and bake half an hoar. 

Fruit Pudding, No. 10.— Cream two-thiids of a cup- 
ful of butter and two heaping cupfals of sugar, and stir in 
four eggs beaten light, yolks and whites together. Mix in 
three-foarths of a cupful of milk, two teaspooiifuls of lem- 
on juice, one and one-half cups of flour, two even teaspoon- 
fuls of baking-powder, one cupful of seeded raisins and 
half a cupful of currants, both warmed and rolled in flour. 
Steam three hours. 

Fruit Pudding, No. 11.— To one quart floar, four 
eggs, one cup of butter, one teaspoonful soda, two tea- 
spoonfuls cream of tartar, add sweet milk enough to make 
a stiff batter. Then stir in two cupfuls of seedless raisins 
or dried cherries, and bake. 

Fruit Pudding, No. 12.— Soak one cup of stale bread- 
crumbs in one pint of hot milk, add one tablespoonful of 
butter, one cup of sugar, one saltspoonful of salt, and 
spice to taste. When cool add three egg3 well beaten. 
Add two cups of fruit, eicher chopped apples, raisins, cur- 
rants, canned peaches, or apricots, — one, or a mixture of 
two or more varieties. When using canned fruit, drain it 
from the syrup and use the latter in making a sauce. 
Vary the sugar according to the fruit. Turn into a but- 
tered pudding-mould and steam two hours. 

Fruit Pudding, Ko. 13.— Stir two tablespoonfuls 
thick cream in a pint of buttermilk, add a scant teaspoon- 
ful soda, a teacupf ul of sug.'ir, and enough sifted flour to 
make a smooth, light batter. Butter a tin basin and place 
in it fruit of any kind to the depth of an inch or more; add 
sugar to taste and pour the batter over it. When it is 



138 PKUITS ATSTD how TO USE THEM. 

baked, turn it bottom side upon a large platter, and serva 
with sweetened cream. 

FrultPudcling.—(Qaeen of Puddings ) Soak one pint 
of stale bread-crumbs in one quart of richnew milk for half 
an hour, then stir in one cup of sugar and the yolks of three 
eggs beaten together. Mix in one heaping teaspoonful 
of butter and beat all together thoroughly. At the last add 
the juice and grated yellow peel of one lemDn. Bike half 
an hour in a moderate oven. Beat the whites of three 
eggs light with as many tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. 
Draw the pudding to the msuth of the oven and spread 
over it a layer of jam, jelly, marmalade or fresh fruit 
mashed and sweetened, ">,nd over that spread the meringue. 
Let it brown in the oven a few minutes with the door open, 
and serve warm or cold. 

Jam Turn-overs. — Roll paste four inches long and 
nearly three in breadth— it should be an eighth of an inch 
thick — and on each lay a spoonful of jam marmalade or an y 
kind of stewed fruit drained of its juices. Turn the edges 
over and press them lightly together, wetting them, very 
slightly, and bake in a moderate oven. Dredge with 
powdered sugar or cover with soft icing and serve. 

Fruit Manioca Pudding.— tour one quart boiling 
water over one half cup of manioca,stirring to prevent lump- 
ing, then mix in three cupfuls of strawberries, raspberries, 
huckleberries, or sliced peaches, with a scant cupful 
of sugar. Add one or two well-beaten eggs, and bake slow- 
ly about an hour. Serve with cream and sugar. A cup- 
ful of fruit juice may be used in place of the fruit. 

Berry and Rice Padding-.— Soften cold boiled rice 
in the proportion of two cupfuls of milk to two of rice, 
stirring till all the lumps are dissolved, add three eggs, well 
beaten, a teaspoonful of butter, a scant cupful of sugar, 
and lastly two cupfuls of raspberries, blackberries, pitted 
cherries or chopped apple. Bake slowly in a buttered pud- 
ding-dish one hour. 



MISCELLAKEOUS. 139 

Fruit and Tapioca Pudding.— Soak one C7ipfu] 
of tapioca in two quarts of water overnight after wash- 
ing it well, and in the morning cook in a farina kettle till 
it is soft and transparent. Sweeten slightly and turn it 
into the dish in which it is to ba served. Over the tapLoaa. 
turn a tumblerful of jam, jelly or stewed or canned fruit. 
It may be berries, cherries* plums, pears, pine-apple, 
peaches or quince, or two or three kinds mixed, anything 
left from cans or tumblers that are half used. Mix with, 
the tapioca, stirring from the hottom, and serve with sweet 
cream. It makes an easily made and delicious dish. 

Fruit and Tapioca,— Wash half a cupful of tapioca in 
several waters; soak, and in the morning cook till it begins 
to soften. Then add to it one and one half cupfuls of jelly, 
jam or marmalade, and sugar to taste, and cook till it is soft. 
Stir in the beaten whites of three eggs, and turn into a 
mould to harden. Serve with cream or a thin custard 
made with the yolks of three eggs. 

Jelly Puddingy. — Two cups very fine stale biscuit or 
bread-crumbs, one cup rich milk, live eggs, beaten very 
light, one-half teaspoonful.Koda, stirred in a little water, one 
cupful jelly, jam, or marmalade. Soald the milk and pour 
over the crumbs. Beat until half cold, and stir in the beat- 
en yolks, then whites, finally the soda. Fill lai%e cups half 
full with the batter, set in a quick oven and bake half aa 
hour. When done turn oat quickly; with a sharp knife 
inake an incision in the side of eaah, pull partly open, and 
put a liberal spoonful of the conserve within. Close the 
slit by pinching the hedges. Eat warm witli sweetened 
cream. 

Eng-lish Plum Pudding.— (A two guinea Prize Plum 
Pudding selected out ol: five hundred recipes.) 
1 pound of raisins, 
1 pound of finely chopped suet, 
f pound stale bread-crumbs, 
i pound brown sugar, 
Grated rind of one lemon. 



UO PRtriTS AISTD HOW TO U-fE THEM. 

J pound of mineed candied orange peel, 

^ pound flour, 

1 pound of currants, 

J a nutmeg grated, 

5 eggs. 
Clean, wash and dry the currants. Stone the raisins. Mix 
all the dry ingredients well tpgether. Beat the eggs Chere 
it i8"directed to add one half pint of brandy, for which the 
same quantity of sweet cider may be substituted, or fruit 
juice of any kind), then pour them ovet the dry ingre- 
dients and mix thoroughly. Pack into greased small 
kettles or moulds (this will make about six pounds), h,nd 
boil for six hours at the time of making and six hours when 
wanted for use. 

Fruit and Bread Pudding'.— Cut a small stale loaf of 
bread into very thin slic3S and butter them lightly. Into 
the bottom of a large pudding-dish, buttered, put a layer 
of bread, then a handful of currants and raisins, the former 
must be washed and dried, the latter stoned aad chopped. 
Over this put a second layer of bread and then fruit. 
Make a custard of four eggs, t vo and a half cupfuls of milk, 
four tablespoonfuls of sugar, and pDur over the bread 
and fruit, (^ovar and let it stand half an hour to soak the 
bread, then bake in a moderate oven forty minutes. 



FRUIT SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. 

Banana Sauce. — Make a syrup of one cup'ul of sugar 
and one half a cupful of water, and boil; thicken it with 
one even tablespoonful of corn-starch, made smooth in a 
little cold water, and stir in one heaping teaspoonful of 
butter. Mash one large ripe banana and beat into the 
sauce, which should be used as soon as it is cool. In the 
same way make a sauiie of raspberry, currant, or straw- 
berry, using either fresh or canned fruit. If there is much 
juice thicken it with arrowroot or corn-starch, and sweet- 
en it to taste, add butter in due proportion. 



MISCELLANEOUS, 141 

Jelly Sauce.— Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff 
froth, gradually adding one half cupful of powdered sugar. 
Soften one half cupful of jelly, either currant or any other, 
on the back of the range and beat that into the eggs. Then 
beat in one half teacupful of sweet cream and serve at 
once. 

Licmon Sauce.— Wet one heaping tablespoonful of 
flour with two of cold water to a smooth paste and stir it 
into two cupfuls boiling water. Stir till it thickens. Beat 
together two-thirds of a cupful of sugar and a heaping tea- 
spoonful of butter with ono egg, yolk and white together, 
and pour over these ingredients the cooked paste, stirring 
constantly for one minute or till the sugar is melted and 
egg scalded. Set back on the stove and miz in the juice of 
one large lemon and half the grated peel or the juice of two 
small lemons. 

Orang'e Sauce. — Orange sauce is made like lemon sauce 
except that a little more flour is needed to thicken as more 
orange juice is needed for flavoring. Two oranges will be 
none too many. 

Peacli Sauce. —Boil one cup of new rich milk in a small 
saucepan set in a larger or in a small, farina kettle, and 
thicken it with one tablespoonful of flour, made. smooth in 
a little cold milk. When it thickens mix in one egg beaten 
with two-thirds of a cup of sugar and stir till the egg is 
cooked. Then take from the stove and stir it into two-thirds 
of a cup of very ripe peaches, pared, and pressed through a 
colander, or the same quantity of stewed or canned 
peaches likewise mashed and sifted. Beat well and set on 
the ice till cold. If the fruit used is already sweetened use 
only half a cup of sugar. Apricot sauce is made in precise- 
ly the same way. 

Kaspberry Sauce.— Stir one tablespoonful of butter to 
a cream and beat in a heaping cupful of sugar, the juice of 
one small lemon and lastly one cupful of fresh raspb3rry 



143 FEtJITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

juiee, or raspberry jam. Bait together, chill oa ice and 
serve with fruit pudding. In the same way make a,ny kind 
of fruit sauce. 

Strawberry Sauce, No, 1.— Rub to a cream one large 
spoonful of butter and one cupful of sugar. Mix in the 
stiff beaten white of one egg and one half pint of mashed 
strawberries. 

Strawberry Sauce, No. 2.— Beat together one cupful of 
sugar and onetablespoonful of butter and ?tir into one cup- 
ful of boiling water. Then stir in one level tablespoonful of 
flour, made smooth in three of milk, and let it thicken. 
Pour the whole over one quart of strawberries mashed 
through a colander. Beat well and heat, but not boil the 
sauce, if it is desired hot. One pint of canned strawberries 
may be used instead of the fresh. 

Raspberry or currant sauce may De made in the same way. 
For currants take a little more sugar. 



SAUCES FOR GAME. 

Jelly Sauce for Game.— Cut a small onion into thin 
slices and fry in a piece of butter as large as an English 
walnut until it is brown. Then add a teaspoonful of flour 
stirred in smoothly, two bav leaves, one dessertspoonful of 
vinegar or one teaspoonful of lemon juice, and lastly 
half a cupful of currant jelly. 

Currant Sauce for Crame.— Mash six quarts of ripe 
currants,add the juice and grated peel of three large or four 
small oranges, discarding seeds. Stone one quart and one 
ha f of raisins, chop fine and add to currants and oranges. 
Cook slowly two hours, then add six pounds of granulated 
sugar, stir and cook slowly chree-fourthss of an hour. 
Pack in jars of glass or stone. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 143 



FRUIT FILLING FOR LAYER CAKE. 

To the almost numberJess ways of ooDcootiag fruit fill- 
ing for layer cake woman's iaventive genius is constantly 
adding new recipes. Fruit is grated, mashf>d, stewed and 
made into jellies and marmalades for this sole purpose. 
A favorite method is to incorporate the result with icing. 
Any plain oake may be taken as the base of layer cake, as 
for instance, the following : 

Cake for Filling,No. 1.— (Marion Harland ) Three eggs, 
one cup of sugar, butter the size of an egg, one cup of flour, 
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar and half ateaspoonful of 
soda. Bake in jelly tins and spread with jelly or filling. 

Cake for Filling-jNo. 2.— Cream one cupful of powder- 
ed sugar and one tablespoonful of butter,; and mix in the 
well-beaten yolks of three eggfs, then the stiffly beaten whites 
then three-fourths of a pint of flour, alternately with half a 
cupful of milk, and lastly one heaping teaspoonful of baking- 
powder. 

Almond Filling, No. 1.— Boil half a pint of cream. 
While it is heating mix a teaspoonful of flour with a table- 
spoonful of cold milk and stir into the yolks of three eggs, 
beaten with two heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar. Stir the 
whole into the boiling cream and cook till thick. Then 
mix in haif a pound of blanched and chopped almonds and 
spread between the layers. Flavor the icing with almond 
extract. 

Almond Filling', TSo. 2.— Take one pint of sweetcream 
adayold. Whip till very light wi."..i an egg-beater. Blanch 



144 FBUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

and chop a pound of almonds. Stir into the sweetened 
whipped cream, and put on the top and between the lay- 
ers. 

Almond Filling, iN'o. 3. — Blanch a pound of almonds, 
reserve a dozen and chop fine the remainder. Beat the 
whites of ihree eggs, adding gradually a scant cup of pow- 
dered sugar. When stiff enough to stand alone save out 
enough to ice the top of the cake and mix the chopped al- 
monds with the rest. Spread this between the layers and 
cover the top with the reserved portion. Split in two the 
dozen whole almonds and arrange in a garland in the icing 
while soft. 

Apple Filling. — Peel and grate two large sour apples 
and flavor with extract of lemon or lemon peel. Stir in 
one well-beaten egg and one cup of sugar, whip it well, then 
let it simmer in a granite saucepan five minutes, or till it 
thickens. If too thin stir in one dessertspoonful of flour, 
made smooth in a little cold water. 

Banana Filling, No. 1.— To five or six peeled and 
mashed bananas add the juice of one lemon and h Jf a cup 
of sugar. 

Banana Filling, No. 2.— Make an icing as directed in 
Almond filling, and into it stir two finely mashed bananas. 
It will be enough for two layers. Use double the number 
of bananas for four layers, and so on. Grarnish the top with 
thin layers of the fruit if it is to be eaten immediately, 
otherwise simply cover it with icing. 

Chocolate Pilling, No. 1.— Scrape or grate one square 
of Baker's chocolate aid mix with one cupful of sugar. Stir 
it very slowly into a half-teacupful of boiling milk, then 
mix in the slightly beaten yolks of two eggs. Stir well and 
simmer ten minutes. When cooked flavor with half a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla and spread between the layers. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 145 

Chocolate Filling and Icing, No. 2.— Scrape two 
squares of chocolate, mv^ with, one cupf al of brown sugar 
and melt in a small cup over a tea-kettle of boiling water. 
Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, flavor with a 
teaspoon'ul of vanilla, and carefully mix in the chocolate. 
Beat well, and spread between the layers and upon the top. 
Should it harden too rapidly rewarm over boiling water. 

Chocolate Filling, No, 3.— Scrape two squares of 
chocolate into one halt cup of milk, add three heaping 
tablespoonfuls of sugar and boil tillthick. Spread between 
and upon the layers. 

Cocoanut Filling, No. 1.— Boil together two cupfuls 
of powdered sugar and half a cupful of water till it snaps 
when dropped in cold water, then beat in slowly the stiff 
beaten whites of two eggs and a teaspoonful of lemon juice 
or vinegar. Beat till cold, then mix in four tablespoonfuls 
of grated or desiccated cocoanut and spread between the 
layers. Strew the top with grated cocoanut mixed with 
half the quantity of sugar. A. filling not so rich is made by 
the recipe given in Almond filling. 

Cocoanut Filling, No. 3.— Make a soft icing of the 
whites of three eggs and pulverized sugar, with which cover 
each Iryer thickly. Over it spread fresh grated cocoanut or 
desiccated cocoanut, soaked half an hour in a cup of milk. 

Cocoanut Filling, No. 3.— Two cupfuls granulated 
sugar, two-thirds cup milk of the fresh cocoanut, boiled 
together until it will harden when dropped into cold 
water. Beat whites of two eggs to standing froth, pile 
liigh on large platter, and pour syrup while boiling over 
them, stirring constantly. While cooling add a tahlespoon- 
ful more of cocoanut milk and flavor. Reserve enough to 
cover top and sides of cake, and into the remsiinder put 
one-half cup fresh grated cocoanut and spread quickly 
(before it cools) between the four layers. Then while the 
pLiin frosting is yet warm, cover top and sides, and sprinkle 
thickly with nlenty of cocoanut, This recipe may be used 



146 FBUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

with the desiccated by previously soaking one large cupful 
in half cup sweet milk. 

Cranberry Filling'. — Use rich cranberry jelly as filling 
for layer cake. Cover the top with icing colored a delicate 
red with a trifle of cranberry j uice or cochineal. Arrange 
the slices with alternate squares of cake covered with white 
icing. 

Date Filling. — Pare, coie and slice tart apples and stew 
till nearly done, then add an equal quantity of stoned dates. 
Cook slowly tiU the fruit is reduced to a pulp. Sweeten 
with but little sugar as the dates are rich in saccharine 
matter, and press the pulp through a sieve. Use as a filling 
for layer cake or Washington pie. 

Fig Filling, No. 1 .—Separate and wash a dozen large 
fresh figs. Chop them fine, barely cover with water, and 
let them boil to a soft paste. Kemove from the fire and at 
once stir into the icing, made by beating stiff the whites of 
four eggs with one cupful of sugar. 

Fig Filling, No. 2. — Boil together one half pound of 
figs and half a cup of water with three tablespoonfuls of 
sugar for five minutes, or until the ingredients make a 
paste. The figs should first be separated, washed and 
chopped moderatelv fine. While the paste is warm spread 
it between the layers. 

Fig Filling, No. 3. — Boil one pound of pulverized 
sugar in a scant half cup of water till it hairs, and gradual- 
ly stir it into the weU-beaten whites of three eggs. Beat 
together till it begins to stiffen. Then reserve one third 
of it for icing and into the remainder stir one pound of 
sliced figs. Fiavor with lemon juice and spread between 
the layers and frost the top with the reserved icing, flavored 
with a scant teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Fig and Raisin Filling.— Prepare the figs as in the 
preceding recipe, adding halt as many stoned raisins, by 
measure, as of figs. Soak and simmer the raisins and when 



MISCELLANEOUS. ] - 

tender add to them the chopped flgs. Shniner again till 
the flgs are soft, then spread between the cake. An equal 
quantity of figs and raisins may be used. 

Jelly Filling^. — Any kind of fruit jelly, jam or marma- 
lade is good to spread between layers of cake or upon a 
single thickness of thin cake. It should be made with 
little or no butter, the jelly spread upon it as soon as the 
cake is taken from the oven, and then tied to cool in a roll, 
which is to be served in thin slices. 

Lemon Filling', No. 1 — t!ream together one egg and 
one cupful of sugar, stir in one tablespoonful of butter and 
one tablespoonful of flour with two thirds of a cup of water. 
Boil until it thickens, then stir in the grated peel and juice 
of one large or two small lemons. 

Lemon Filling, No. 3.— Whites of three eggs, three 
cupfuls of sugar, one teaspoonful of vanilla, three teaspoon- 
fuls of lemon juice. Pour half a pint of boiling water on 
the sugar and let it' boil until clear and almost candied. 
Beat The eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them into the boil- 
ingsyrup; remove from the fire and beat thoroughly until 
it becomes a stiff froth; add the -lemon juice, and when 
perfectly cold add the vanilla. Spread it between the 
layers and on the top and sides of the caue. 

Orange Filling, No. 1.— Grate part of the yellow rind 
of a juicy orange, then peel and grate that and another, 
remove the seeds, add two tablespoonf ills of water, one 
cupful of sugar, and scald in a farina kettle. Into it stir 
one tablespoonful of corn-starch, made smooth m a little 
cold water, and cook until the corn-starch is thick. Beat 
the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, with one cupful of 
powdered sugar, reserve enough of this to spread upon the 
top, and stir the rest into the orange when it is almost cold. 
Flavor the icing with extract of orange. 

Orange Filling, No. 2.— Beat the white of one egg to a 
froth, gradually adding three-fourths of a pint of powdered 



Ii8 FKUITS AND HOW TO U^E THEM. 

sugar and the grated rind and juice of one large orange. 

Orange and Cocoanut Cream Filling.— Into one 

egg beaten stiff, yolk and white together, stir one cupful of 
sweet cream, half a oup of sugar, one cup of grated cocoa- 
nut, the juice of one large orange and part of the grated 
peal. With this spread each layer and the top of the cake, 
over which sprinkle fresh grated cocoanut. 

Peacli Filling.— Beat till they are stiff the whites of 
three eggs, adding gradually a scant cupful of powdered 
sugar. Spread a portion of this over the thickest of the 
layers for the bottom of the cake. On this arrange a layer 
of peeled and sliced peaches, and on them place another 
layer of cake. Proceed in the same manner with one or 
two more layers. If the fruit is very ripe it may be mash- 
ed and then stirred into the icing. Nectarine or apricot 
filling may be prepared in the^ame way. 

Pine-apple Filling.— Make a thick boiled icing in 
which squeeze the juice of two oranges. Spread over the 
layers of cake and sprinkle thick with grated pine-apple. 
To make boiled, icing tarn half a cup of hot water over 
one cup of granulated sugar and boil until it hairs. Into 
the stiff beaten white of one egg add as much cream of 
tartar as can be heaped upon the point of a penknife, 
and into the egg beat slowly the hot syrup until it is cold 
and thick. 

Baisin Filling, No. 1.— Chop together one cupful of 
seeded raisins and half as many blanjhed almonds 
and stir into boiled icing, which is made by cooking to- 
gether one cupful of granulated sugar and half a cup of hot 
water till a long thread can be spun from the syrup. Then 
proceed as in the recipe above. The raisins must then 
be stirred in rapidly and the icing spread at once between 
the layers. Leave out the almonds if desired. 

Raisin Filling, No. 2.— Boil a cup of maple syrup till 
it hairs, or dissolve enough maple sugar to make a cupful, 



MISCELLANEOUS. 140 

stirring in two teaspoonfuls of vinegar to prevent graining, 
then add a cupful of seeded and chopped raisins and stir 
till cold. 

Hickory Nut Filling-.— Make an icing of three beaten 
whites and as many cups of pulverized sugar and spread on 
each side of the layers. Cover the top of each with the 
meats of nuts. 

Raspberry and Strawberry Filling'.— Cover eaoL 
cake layer with icing made like that given In Almond cake, 
and over each spread another of fresh fruit. Let them be 
of berries selected for their size and sweetness and care- 
fully arranged. 

Tuttl Frutti Fillingr, Jfo. 1.— Chop very fine two 
ounces of citron, then add a quarter of a pound of fresh 
figs and chop till these are also fine. Add two thirds of a 
cupful of blanched almonds and ciiop again. Chop sepa- 
rately three tablespoonfus of seeded raisins and mix with 
the rest. Make an icing as inAlnaond filling, into which, 
with a fork, lightly mix the chopped fruit. Place it between 
the layers while the cake is warm. 

Tatti Frutti Filling, No. 2.— Into the white of one 
egg beaten stiff stir one cupful of seeded and chopped 
raisins, half a cupful of grated cocoanut, half a cupful of 
choppedalmonds and. one heaping tablespoonful of sugar. 
The raisins and almonds shoiild be ohopijed to a paste. 



FBUIT, JELLIES, JAMS AND MARMALADES. 

Apple Jelly, No. 1.— For this purpose use sour apples 
which have both flavor and juice. Wash, cut out defects, 
and slice in small pieces retaining both core and skin. 
Throw into a granite or porcelain kettle with just enough 
water to cover them, stew slowly till they are soft, and press 
gently through a flannel jelly-bag. Boil the juice half an 



150 FRUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

hour, then add, by measure, half as much sugar as juice. 
Return to the kettle and boil a few minutes, or till it jellies 
when dropped on a plate. One qui nee to every dozen apples 
gives a rich flavor to the jelly. Crab-apples require a litile 
more sugar, a heaping cupful to a pint of juice. 

Apple Jelly, No. 2.— Take apples of the best quality, 
good flavor, not sweet, cut up and stew till soft; strain out 
the juice, letting none of the pulp go through, Boil to the 
thickness of molasses, then weigh, and add as many pounds 
of crushed sugar, stirring until all is dissolved. Add one 
ounce of extract of lemon to every twenty pounds of jelly, 
and when cold set away in close jars. It will keep for 
years. 

Apple Jam, No. l.-(Mrs. Parsons.) Pare and core tart 
apples and chop them fine. To each pound of apples use 
three-fourths ot a pound of sugar, and (he juice and finely 
cut rind of one lemon, and for three pounds of apples one 
heaping teaspoonf ul of ginger. Stew apple, sugar, lemon 
and ginger one hour, then put in cans or glasses and cover 
well. Keep in a cool, dry place. 

Apple Jam, No. 2.— (Mrs. Cornelius.) Weigh equal 
quantities of brown sugar and sour apples. Pare, core and 
chop them fine. Make a syrup of the sugar and clarify it 
thoroughly, then add the apples, the grated peel of two or 
three lemons and a few pieces of white ginger. Boil till 
the apples look clear and yellow. The ginger is essential to 
its peculiar excellence. 

Apple Marmalade. — Pare and core sour apples, chop 
them moderately fine and stew with a little water, allowing 
three-fourths of a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit. 
When reduced to a fine pulp put it in pint cans or jelly jars. 
This is nice for tarts. 

Barberry Jelly.— "Wash, stew, mash and strain the ber- 
ries. Boil the juice half an hour and allow, by measure, 
two-thirds as much sugar as juice. Drop in the heated 



MISCELLANEOUS. l5l 

sugar and boil ten minutes, or even less, if it iellies when 
dropped from the spoon. 

Blackberry Jelly.— Like all other fruit the common 
blackberry is better for this purpose than the finer varieties. 
The berries should be plucked before they are fully ripe. 
They should be cooked in a very little water, or better, in a 
stone jai set upon a few sticks or a false bottom in a larger 
kettle of cold water 3,nd boiled till they will easily mash. 
Squeeze through a flannel jelly-bag, boil the juice twenty 
minutes in a porcelain or granitized kettle, allow a pound 
of sugar for every pint of juice, heat it in the oven, and boil 
up again, then turn into jelly tumblers that have been 
made scalding hot. 

Blackberry Jam. —To every pound of berries put three- 
fourths of a ijound of sugar, and stir often to prevent burn- 
ing. Cook slowly till the berries are mashed and well done. 
A little currant jeRy or lemon peel increases the flavor. 

Cherry. Jelly.— Wash and stone the cherries and heat, 
without the addition of water, in a stone jar or porcelain 
kettle. Then proceed precisely as in Blackberry jelly. 

Crab-apple Jelly.— Cut Siberian crab-apples to pieces, 
but do not pare or remove the seeds, which impart a pleas- 
ant flavor to the fruit. Put into a stone jar, set in a pot of 
hot water, and let it boil eight or nine hours. Leave in the 
jar all night, covered closely. Next morning squeeze out 
the juice, allow pound for pint, and proceed as in all jellies. 
Should the apples be very dry, add a cup of water for every 
six pounds of fruit. 

Cranberry Jelly, Ho. 1.— To every quart of cranberries 
allow a dozen large tart apples, which are the best cut ap 
without skins and seeds and boiled with the berries till all 
are tender. Strain through a jelly-bag, and to every pint 
of this allow a scant pint; of sugar. Boil the juice fifteen 
minutes, skim, and then add the heated sugar. Boil fifteen 
ininutes longer, or till it jellies, when dropped from the 
spoon, then pour into glasses or bowls. 



152 FKUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

Cranberry Jelly, No. 2.— Pick over the cranberries, 
wath, and put into a porcelain kettle with a cup of 
water to a gallon of berries. When soft mash "with a wood- 
en spoon and turn through a strainer fine enough to retain 
skins and seeds. Take equal quantities of the pulp and 
sugar heated in the oven and boil, stirring constantly to 
prevent burning. Cook about eight minutes from the time 
when it begins to boil, and turn into hot bowls or glasses. 

Cranberry Marmalade.— Press the cranberries 
through awieve finfe enough to retain the skins>, and sweet- 
en the pulp with half its measure of sugar. Boil slowly an 
hour, or till it thickens when dropped from the spoon on a 
cold saucer, and pour into glasses. 

Currant Jam, — Measure the currants and to every 
quart measure out two-thirds of a quart of sugar. Mash 
the fruit and cook one hour, stirring frequently to prevent 
burning. Then add the sugar, and stir and simmer for fif- 
teen minutes, then put up in hot cans or hoc jars. 

Currant Jelly.— Select frui); fully ripe but not stale. 
The sooner it is used after turning red the better jelly it 
makes, and a dry sunny day is almost indis )ensable. 
Wash the currants and pick out imperfections and leaves, 
but do not stem them. If convenient use one-fourth or 
one-fifth the quantity of raspberries as of currants. Scald 
the fruit and strain through a jelly-bag without applying 
much pressuie. Measure the juice and take the same 
quantity of sugar, if currants alone are used, if berries are 
added take a scant measure of sugar, a little more than 
two-thirds. Spread it upon shallow plates and set in the 
open oven where it can be stirred to prevent burning. 
Boil the juice twenty minutes, skimming cf ten, then pour in 
the hot sugar. Simmer gently ten minutes, by which time 
the juice ought to begin to thicken when dropped into a 
cool saucer, then dip into hot glasses, and cover closely 
when cool. If it does not thick-^n at once, set in the sun. 

The following recipe is vouched for by several persons 
who have tried it- 



MISCELLANEOUS. 153 

Cold Currant Jelly.— (Mrs. Robinson.) Crush the cur- 
rants in an earthen jar, taking care not to crush the seeds, 
then pour them on a fine wire sieve and let the juice filter 
through. When they no longer drip, put them into a 
coarse muslin bag and squi-eze rhe remaining juice into an- 
other dish. This last is to be made into jelly by itself, as it 
is not so clear as that which has filtered through the sieve 
without assistance. The first must be examined clopely 
and if not perfectly clear, strained again; then weigh it, 
and allow two pounds of granulated sugar to one of juice. 
Mix and stir until it has become perfectly blended, so there 
will be no grains of the sugar to be seen on the spoon when 
lifted out. Now cover the jar and put it into a very cold 
cellar for twenty-four hours, or into an ice-chest, stirring it 
thoroughly every two or three hours during the day and 
evening, and again early in the morning. It can not be 
stirred too much, as on its \ erfect blending depends your 
success. It is worth trying, for it is superior in flavor to all 
jellies. At the end of twenty-four hours it can be poured 
into jelly glasses and sealed up. It must be kept in a very 
cool place, and is not to be touched for four or five months. 

Green Oooseberry Jam.— Cut off the stems and blos- 
som ends and throw them into the preserving kettle. Al- 
low two and a half pounds of fruit. Mash it with a wooden 
spoon and boil rapidly ten minutes before adding the sugar. 
Cook forty minutes, stirring to prevent burning, and seal 
in tumDlers or jars. 

Grape Jam.— Slip off the skins and put them in an 
earthen cish and boil the pulp in a porcelain kettle till the 
seeds are separated. Most of them can be skimmed from 
the surface of the juice and pulp, the remainder will sink 
to the bottom when the kettle is set back from the fire. To 
the pulp, juice and skins together take three-fourths their 
weight in sugar, but do not add the sugar till the fruit has 
boiled half an hour. Then let It just come to a boil and 
seal in cans. For most tastes half as much sugar as fruit 
will be sweet enough. 



151 F3-JIT8 AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

Grape Jelly.— Select fruit that is hardly ripe: the wild 
grape may be used while green. Mash with a wooden 
spoon, throw into a preserving kettle, and cook fifteen min- 
utes. Strain through a jelly-bag, boil up the juice, skim- 
ming it well, then add a pint of hot pulverized sugar to 
every pint of juice. Boil ten minutes and seal. This is the 
usiml formula in regard to sugar, but a third less sugar 
keeps equally well and 's fully as palatable. 

Orange Marmalade, No. 1. — (Mrs. Todd in Good 
Housekeeping.) Grate tiie outer yellow rind, which con- 
tains the essential oil, frojn the fruit used for marmalade 
and pour over it enough boiling water to soften it. Then 
peel the skins off all the fruit, taking care to remove all the 
white inner rind, and cut the fruit in pieces. Remove all 
the seeds and save the juice. Pour cold water over the 
skins and let them boil tiil they are thoroughly ten- 
der, tlien take them out, strain them, i nd scrape the 
strings from the inner side with a knife. This done, cut 
them into very thin, even strips. While this is being done 
the syrup must be preparing in this manner: The weight 
of the oranges in jump sugar is put in a porcelain kettle 
with one pint of water to every two pounds of sugar and 
the well-beaten white of one egg. Let it come to a boil 
slowly, skim, pour in a little cold water, and as the scum 
rises skim a^ain. Let the skimmings drain through a hair 
sieve and return the dripping syrup to the kettle. Into 
this clarified syrup throw the thin strips of orange peel and 
simmer till they are transparent Then add juice and pulp 
and the water strainea from the grated peeling. Let it 
boil till it jellies liy trying with a spoonful dropped into a 
cool plate. Then turn into moulds or glasses, and let them 
stand till the next day. Cover with thin paper wet with al- 
cohol, and over that tie another soaked in white of egg. 
This is called chip marmalade. 

Orange Marmalade,. No. 2.— (Smooth.) This is made 
like the "chip" except that the rinds are boiled very soft 
and pounded in a mortar. Mix them by degrees into the 
syrup with a spoon till they are thoroughly incorporated, 



MISCELLAIJEOUS. 153 

which must be done before the boili.ig begins again. 
When they are wel! blended stir in the juice and pulp, re- 
turn to the Are and boil till it becomes one mass, which is 
■when the color is clear and the mass heavier in stirring. 
Then, after the grated peel is pounded in a mortar the 
marmalade is taken off the fire and the grated peel stirred 
in. - Return to the fire and boil up again. In using bitter 
oranges keep out a portion of the grated peel, unless it is 
desired very bitter. Manufacturers generally use about 
one-third of the peel. 

Orange Marmalade, No. 3.— Quarter some large, ripe 
fruit; remove the rind, seeds, and ^laments, taking care to 
save the juice. Put the pulp and juice into a porcelain 
kettle, and mix with an e.qual quantity of strained honey, 
adding sufficient powdered sugar to make it sweet, as the 
honey will not sweeten it enough. Boil and skim till very 
thick, smooth, and clear. When cold put it in jars. 

Orange Marmalade, No. 4.— Grate the yellow rind 
and carefully pare off the tough white skin. Remove pits 
and stringy portions and cut the soft pulp fine. JPor every 
pound of pulp and grated peel take a pound of white lump 
sugar and half a eup of water. Make it into a syrup and 
skim, then stir in iiie oranges and boil half an hrur. Turn 
into glasses and set in the sun. Seal or tie when hard. 

Orange Marmalade, No. 5.— Make a thick rich apple- 
marmalade out of sour, tender fruit, using a pound of sugar 
to each pound of fruit; while still hot stir into it the pulp 
and juice of oranges, prepared as in No. 4, except that the 
oranges need not be quite as sweet as pound for pound. 
Simmer and stir till the fruit is very thick, then tie up in 
jars or cans. The proportion of apple to orange may vai-y 
according to taste; one-fourth as much orange as apple will 
make a good marmalade. 

Orange Jam.— (The Home Maker.) Cut twelve oranges 
in very thin slices and seed them. Add to them six pints 
cold water, leaving it standing all night. Then add six 
pounds of sugar and boil till it thickens into jam. 



156 FRUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

Peach Marmalade.— Saleet rich juicy fruit, pare, stones 
and weigh, and heat slowly, using no water but its own juic- 
es. Crack the kernels of one third of the pits, cut tiie n 
up and stew in a pint of watt-r for half an hour, then strain 
out the liquor, which is to be added to the peaches after 
they have been boiling three-quarters of an hour and have 
been reduced to a smooth jam by the heat and by mashing. 
At the same time add thres-fourths of a pouid of sugnr to 
every pound of peaclies and the juice of a lemon to every 
four pounds of jam. Boil ten minutes, skim and seal. 

Peacli Jelly. —Peel and stone the peaches, crack- 
ing a dozen pita out of a measure in ordfr to flavor the 
fruit with the kernels. Slice the fruit fine and cooli until 
the whole is reduced to a pulp. A teaeupful of water must 
be added to every four quarts of fruit. Express the juice as 
in other jellies, adding the juice of one le;non and two or- 
anges to every pint. Proceed as in other recipes. It is 
much better to make peaches into marmalade, since it is 
almost impossible to separate much juice from the pulp. 
Plum jelly is made like the peach except that the pits are 
not needed as flavoring. 

Pear Jelly. — Peel and quarter juicy ripe pears 
and stew with a very little water, taki ng care to prevent burn- 
ing. If cooked in a double boiler the addition of water 
will not be needed. Wiien reduced toa pulp strain througli 
a sieve ao as to leave only the juice, taking care to squeeze 
out none of the i)ulp. Boil twenty minutes, add sugar, 
heated and measured as in other jellies, heat till it thickens 
and pour into jelly tumblers. This is obviously not a fruit 
will calculated for jelly 

Pear aiarmalade.— Proceed as for pear jelly but press 
the pulp througli a coarser sieve. Put over the fire again 
and stir constantly to prevent burning. When it becomes 
quite thick add a pound of sugar for every pint of pulp, 
measured befoie it has boiled the second time, simmer gen 
^\y, and put in jars of glass or stone. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 15T 

Quince Jelly.— Wash carefully and out out all dark 
specks. Cut iu pieces without paring or coring, and stew 
very slowly in enough water to cover the fruit. When soft 
strain, boil twenty minutes and add, by measure, one-fourth 
the quantity of sugar. Boil until it jellies when dropped 
upon a cold plate. As it is diflioult to press out all the ge- 
latinous juice it is well to pour hot water upon the pulp in 
the jelly-bag and press it through slowly. This diluted 
juice will be found serviceable in stewing apples or quinces 
again. An excellent jelly is made by adding a quarter or a 
ihird the quantity of sour apples to the quinces. 

Quince and Apple Jelly.— Cut small and core an 
equal weight of tart apples and quinces. Put the quinces 
in a preserving kettle, with water to cover them, and boil 
till soft; add the apples, still keeping water to cover, 
and boil till the whole is nearly a pulp. Put the whole in- 
to a jelly-bag, and strain without pressing. To each quart 
<>f juice allow two pounds of lump sugar. Boil together 
half an hour. 

Quince Marmalade.— Wash, peel and core the fruit, 
dropping it into water to prevent its turning black, and 
stew the cores and peelings for three hours, in enougu wa- 
ter to cover them. Strain out the gelatine in a stout jelly- 
bag without pressure, adding a little boiling waterafterthe 
first juice is expressed, to rinse off all that remains. The 
liquor should then be put on to boil with the quinces and 
stirred often till the fruit is reduced toafinejam. Then add 
the sugar, which need be only three fourths the weight of 
the peeled quinces, boil up once, skim them, seal in cans 
or put in glasses, and cover with oiled paper pasted tightly 
v.round the tops. 

Kaspberry Jam. — Weigh the berries and allow three- 
fourths their weis-ht in sugar. Put the fruit on the stove 
in a porcelain kettle and mash with a wooden spoon. 
When mashed turn in currant juice, a pint of juice to every 
two quarts of berries or even more; the proportion ought 
to suit the taste of the housekeeper. A little currant juice 



158 FKUITS- AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

gives individuality ti> the berry. Let it boil, skimming oft- 
en. Then add the sugar, let it boil hard once, stirring all 
the time, and seal or put up in bowls. 

Raspberry Jelly.— Make like Blackberry Jelly. 

Strawberry Jam.— Select small, sweet strawberries, 
wash, hull and weigh them, allowing three-fourths as much 
sugar as fruit. Mash the berries over the range in a porce- 
lain or granite-hned kettle, with a wooden masher or 
spoon, allowing a large teacupful of water, or even more if 
the fruit is not juicy, to every four pounds of fruit. 
Boil half an hour, stirring constantly, then pour in the sug- 
ar, which should have been heating in the oven. Boil 
twenty minutes, then seal in cans. Pint cans are most con- 
venient. 

Strawberry Jelly.— Take fresh fruit, hardly ripe, and 
boil in a glass or stone jar set within a kettle having a false 
bottom to keep the jar from the fire. When the berries are 
soft, squeeze through a jelly-bag, measure the juice and al- 
low for each pint, as usual, a pound of sugar. Heat the 
sugar as in cui-ran^ jelly and boil the j uice twenty minutes 
or thirty if it is a damp day. Then turn in the sugar, stir 
to prevent burning, let it boil up once, and turn into jelly 
tumblers standing in hot water. 



FEUIT PA.STES AND JELLIES WITHOUT SUGAR. 

It is not generally know,! tliat fruit juice may beboileil to 
a jelly without sugar. Mash the fruit and strain, boil down 
very carefully, in porcelain or gTanite ware. While it is 
thia cook i-apidlj', but as it thickens let it simmer slower and 
slower and finally finish in a stone-ware jar in a cool oven. 

Apple Jelly or Poinarius.— Filter new cider made 
from sour apples through a flannel bag and heat it in por- 



MISCELLANEOUS. 159 

celain till it begins to thicken. Finish drying in shallow 
dishes till it is of the consistency of jelly andaboutone tenth 
of its first measure. Pack it in glass or earthen, and it 
■will keep during the summer. It can be diluted for sauces 
or beverages. It is useful for picnics and camping parbies, 
or where fresh fruit is not easily obtained or canned fruit 
is too cumbrous to carry. 



DRIED FRUITS. 

Since the days of canning, drier! fruit has fallen into un- 
deserved disrepute, and it is a pitj', since drying preserves 
the flavor of many fruits better than any other process of 
preservation. 

Inferior fruit can be made into jellies and jams, unripe 
fruit may be stewed and preserved, but fruit for drying 
must be of the first quality and thoroughly ripe. 

Paring-machines are fheap enough to come within reach 
of every family, but they should be used only upon apples. 
In sections of the country where this fruit does not keep 
well it is a good plan to dry a few in the fall. A3 for berries 
an J other fruits, there are many who have not time to can, or 
who have no cool closet room for jars, to whom dried fruit 
will be a luxury. 

Apples dried. — Drop pared apples Into cold water to 
prevent discoloration, out into eighihs and dij- an frames 
covered with cheese-cloth or eoar->e netting. They should 
be supported on posts in the sunshine, away froiQ flijes and 
dust, a id carefully covered. Turn over the pieces every 
day, and when thoroughly dry store in paper bags where 
they are away from the reach of insects. 

In stewing dried apples pick over the fruit, wash in two 
waters, and cook in boiling water half an hour. By thig 



160 FKUITS AND HOW XO USE THEM. 

process of fast boiling the flavor is preserved and the fruit 
retains its shape. Keep closely covered while cooking. 

Dried Berries.— Pick over the fruit, spread on old 
earthen plates and sprinkle thick with sugar. Set them on 
a table in the sun and cover with netting, supported so as 
not to touch the fruit. Finish drying in a cool stove oven 
when the fruit has shrunken one half. Turn often with a 
silver knife. Pack in bags and stew in hot water. 

Dried Currants. — One pint sugar to one pint stemmed 
currants. Put them tugether in a porcelain kettle, a layer of 
currants at the bottom; wh^n the sugar is dissolved to a 
syrup let them boil one or two minutes. Skim from the 
syrup, and spread on plates to dry in a partially cooled oven. 
Boil the spr up until thickened, pour it over the currants, 
and dry with them. Pack in jars, and cover closely. 
Blackberries may he dried in the same manner. 

Dried Cherries.— Stone the chfvrries with a machine 
which comes for that purpose, throwing in a few pits, and 
over them strew a little white sugar. Stir them gently and 
let them stand a few hours. Drain off the juice and put in 
a preserving kettle, let it come to a boil and throw in the 
cherries Let them cook up once and then spread on plates 
to dry like berriep. If they are too j uicy boil it down before 
putting in the fruit. Use half as much sugar as cherries by 
weight. Stir often while dryingand pack, while hot, in jai s, 
with a little sugar sprinkled between the layers. Cover 
closely with paper and keep cool and dark. They may be 
used in place of raisins. Dry currants in the same man- 
ner. 

Dried Peaches. — Peel yellow peaches, cut them from 
the stone in one piece, allowing two pounds of sugar for six 
pounds of the fruit; make a syrup of tlie sugar and a 
liitle water, let it boil, put in the peaches and let them 
cook till they are quite clear, take them up carefully on a 
dishandset them in the sun todry. Strewpowdered sugar 
over th^m on all sides, a little at a time, and if any syrup is 



MISCELLANEOUS. 161 

left remove them to fresh dishes. When they are quite dry- 
lay them^ lightly in a jar with a little sugar V)etween f aeh 
layer. They retain the flavor of the fruit better than can- 
ned peaches. 

Dried Plums. — Dry with the stones in to preserve 
the full flavoj'. Where those are objected to stone thp 
plums and fill the cavities with sugar. Dry like berries on 
plates sifted over with sugar. Turn often and finish in a 
cool oven 

Peacli Lieatlier. —(Table Talk.) Pare -a half peck of 
nice yellow peaclies, remove the stones, weigh the peaches, 
and to each pound allow a quarter of a pound of granulated 
sugar. Stew them slowly together, tnashing and stirring 
to prevent scorching. When they have cooked dry eaough 
to spread out in a thick paste, grease a perfectly smooth 
board with butter, spread tlie peaches all over it in an en- 
tirely smooth thin sheet, stand it in the sun to dry, bring- 
ing it in before the dew falls; if necessary, put it out the 
second day. "When this peach marmalade is sufllciiently 
dry not to be sticky, roll it up like leather, and keep it in 
a dry place. It will keep perfectly well from one season to 
another. 

When wanted for use cut it in thin slices from the end of 
the roll. 

Quince leather may be made in precisely the same man- 
ner. " , 

These fruit leathers are popular through Maryland and 
Virginia. They form a pleasant accompaniment to wafers 
or crackers for lunch or tea. 



FRUIT BEVERAGES AND STEUPS. 

Appleade, !N"o. 1. — Wash and slice one large or two medi- 
um sized sour apples for every quart of watar; they should 
neither be peeled nor cored. Put it on the fire in a tin or 



leii FBUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

porcelain saucepan with the watrtr, and boil, closely cover- 
ed, until the apple stews to pieces. Strain the liquor at once, 
pressing the apple hard in the cloth. Strain this again 
through a finer bag, and set away to cool. Sweeten with 
white sugar, and ice for drinking. It will keep some time 
if bet in a cool dark place if it is first scaldf^d. 

Appleade, No. 2. — Bake three or four soar apples, mash 
them in a porcelain or stone dish, add half a cup of sugar 
and pour boiling water over them. When cold, strain, and 
add more sugar if needed. 

Appleade, No. 3.— Stir a tablespoonful of apple jelly in- 
to a goblet of cold water. 

Apple Toast Water.— Toast a large slice of bread on 
both sides till it is very brown and crumble into large pieces. 
Mix these with two or three baked apples and over them 
pour a quart of boiling water. Sugar to taste, and when 
cold strain lor a cooling and nutritious beverage. 

Blackberryade.-^Steep a quart of blackberries in a 
quart of water till the fraitis tender, then mash the berries 
and strain oat the juice. Sweeten and dilute according to 
the taste. 

Blackberry Cordial.— Wash fresh ripe berries and 
mash them with a wooden spoon or mallet. Strain out the 
juice, and to every four quarts add one quart of boiling 
water. Let it stand in a cool place twenty-four hours, 
stirring occasionally. Strain again, and to every gallon 
of liquid add two heaping pints or two pounds and a half of 
the best white sugar. Stir it well and <jork in jugs or seal 
in cans. It is excellent for invalids, especially in summer. 
No alcohol is needed to keep trom fermentation. 

Blackberry Vinegar.— Put a gallon of fresh berries in 
a stone jar, and over them pour one quart of good cider 
vinegar. Cover closelj, and in two weeks strain and pour 
the vinegar over two quarts fresh berries. At the end of a 
week if it does not seem strong enough pour it over two 



MISCEIiLANEOUS. 163 

quarts more. Allow one pound and one half of sugar to 
every quart of vinegar, heat to the boiling point, skim, and 
bottle or seal. 

Craiiberryade.— Mash two-thirds of a pint of berries 
in one cup of cold water. Boil one large spoonful of oatmeal 
and ii slice of lemon in two quarts of water, add the cran- 
berries and sweeten to taste. Boil half an hour and strain. 

Cherry Cordial.— Crush a pint of cherries, leaving in 
the pits, sweeten to the taste, and over them pour a quart 
of boiling water. Strainandaddsugarif needed. Allkinds 
of berries and larger fruit may be used in the same manner. 
Cool on the ice. It may be made as rich and strong a'^ de- 
sired. 

Currautade.— Mash a quart of ripe currants, or currants 
and red raspberries mixed,in the proportion of twice as much 
of the former as of the latter fruit, add half as much sugar, 
with four quarts of water. Stir thoroughly and press 
through a jelly-bag. It may be made more or less sweet' 
at pleasure. This is a c ol refreshing summer beverage. 
It will keep several days on ice. 

Fig "Water.— Boil half a pound of flgs with half an 
ounce of ginger in two quarts of water until it is reduced 
to a pulp. Strain and bottle, or use at once. 

Fruit Temperance Beverage.— (Dr. M. L. Holbrook.) 
Twelve lemons, one quart ripe raspberries, one pine-apple, 
two pounds best refined sugar and three quarts of pure soft 
cold, not iced, water. Peel the lemons very thin. Squeeze 
the juice over the peel, let it stand two hours, add the two 
pounds of refined sugar, mash the raspberries with half a 
pound of the same sugar, peel the pine-apple and cut in 
very thin slices and cover them with sugar. Strain the lem- 
on juice, crush the raspberries, press the pine-apple, put 
the lemon juice in a bowl, add the three quarts of water, 
the lemon j nice and pine-apple, stir all together till the sug- 
ai- is dissolved, then strain and serve. This makes a deli- 
cious beverage. _ 



164 FBUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

Fruit Juices.— Heat all kinds of berries, or red and wliite 
currants, and mash and strain as in making jelly. Pour 
the juice into a preserving ketde andlet it boil. Skim and 
cook-flfteen minutes. Then to every quart of juice put 
three-fourths of a teacupful of sugar, after it is heated in 
the oven. Boil ten minutes and seal in cans. Fruit juice is 
excellent in the winter and early spring, not only as a fla- 
voring for beverages but to use in sauces and various kinds 
of cooking. 

Gooseberry Water.— Pour over a pint of green goose- 
berries two quarts of water and add half an ounce of ginger. 
Boil to a pulp, then let it settle, and strain. Sweeten to 
tas+e. 

Grape Vinegar.— Pulp tl.e grapes and throw into a 
stone jar, adding, by measure, a scant third of cider vine- 
gar. Cover closely and stir often. On the fourth day press 
through a cloth, and to the expressed juice add sugar in the 
proportion of five pounds of good white sugar to every 
three quarts of vinegar. Skim and boil ten minutes, then 
seal while hot, like canned fruit. A tablespoonful in a 
tumbler of water makes a grateful : ummer drink. 

Grape Juice, Jfo. 1. — One of the best uses to which fruit 
can be put is in making nature's summer beverage, the 
unfermei ted juice of the grape. It is rich, fragrant, in- 
vigorating and nutritious. There are special brands in the 
market, but any one having grapes can manufacture his 
own beverage. 

This nnfermented grape juice is recommended by medi- 
cal men as an invaluable and unstimulating tonic. It is 
used for communion purposes, as a substitute for wines at 
festivities, and as a flavoring for blanc-mange, gelatines 
and ice-creams. As it is wholly free from alcohol, grape 
juice is fast growing into popular repute. 

For the preparation ot unfermented wine or grape juice, 
one ot the National Superintendents of the W. C. T. U. 
contributes the following recipe: 



MISCELLANEOUS. 165 

" Select your grapes — not too ripe— then put them into a, 
kettle with a little water, and slowly bring them to a scald 
ing heat, stirring them occasionally. 

Then put them into a cheese-cloth bag and drain over 
night. Express the juice, and strain through another, 
thicker bag, and add sugar to suit the taste ; then bring to 
a boil, skimming frequently ; bottle and cork. The corks- 
should be long and perfect, the juice fill the bottles, except 
just space enough to insert the cork at first, to make it air- 
tight; then, as the juice cools, press down the corks so that 
no space i/j left between the juice and cork, or can the juice 
the same a« fruit. If any is left, scald, bottle, and cork as 
before. In this manner is made unfermented wine (which 
neither sours nor ferments), for communion purposes). 

Grape Juice, No. 3. —The grapes should* be of the 
best quality. Wash them thoroughly, after strip- 
ping from the stems, and discarding any that are imperfect. 
Throw them into a granitized kettle wi*-h half a pint of 
water to every three quarts of fruit, skim when they begin 
to boil, and cook very slowly for ten minutes. While still 
boiling hot, strain through a jelly-bag, squeezing the skins 
and seeds into a separate receptacle, as the juice from 
them will be apt to be discolored. Return the liquid to 
the jjreserving kettle, and after boiling half an hour seal in 
heated glass cans like fruit. The juice from seeds and 
skins may be bottled separately. It can be safely kept till 
grapes are again ripe, if packed in a cool, darJs place. The 
absence of light is as imperative as the absence of heat. 
Cooled on ice it makes a delicious and wholesome beverage, 
and is supposed to have specially tonic qualities. 

If grape juice cannot be kept in a very cool place, add one 
cup of sugar to every quart of juice at the end of half an 
hour, then boil ten minutes longer. 

Lemonade, No. 1.— Cut three large oi four small juicy 
lemons upon a cupful of white sugar in a porcelain or glass 
pitcher. Bruise it well and stir, then pour over it a quart 
of cold water. It is best to take out the pips. Use boiling 
water for hot lemonade. 



166 FKTJITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

Liemonade, No, 2.— Peel four lomons, over the peel of 
one pour a pint of boiling water. Make a syrup of one cup- 
ful of sugar and one cupful of water, boil it ten minute.?, 
skim, and pour it over ttie infused lemon peel, squeeze in 
the lemon juice and add more sugar and water as desired. 
Cool on ice. 

liemonade, No. 3.— Slice four lemonsand two oranges, 
and proceed according to lemonade No. I. Then add two 
tablespoonfuls of crushed strawberries, raspberries or 
cherries, and half a dozen slices of pine-apple. Let the 
fruit stand for an hour, then strain. Use only one kind of 
fruit with the lemons, if desired. 

Liemon Tea.— Into fresh steeped black tea drop thinly 
sliced lemon, peel and all except the seeds, in the proportion 
of one slice to t. small cupful of tea. With it sugar may be 
used. This is the famous Russian tea concocted in 
samovars, introduced into this country by travelers fresh 
from Kussia. 

Lieinon Vinegar. —Fill a quart bottle or glass can 
nearly full of cider vinegar, and into it drop the yellow 
rinds of six lemons and the juice of two. In a short time 
the vinegar may be used instead of pure lemon juice. A 
tablespoonful in a glass of water, into which stir a piece of 
soda as large as a pea, produces a glass of foaming lemon 
soda. Use home-made fruit juice as the flavoring. 

Liemon Punch, No. 1.— Grate the yellow rinds of two 
lemons and two oranges over two pounds of lump sugar, 
and squeeze over it the juice of five lemons and two 
oranges. Let it stand till the sugar is dissolved ; it will take 
three or four hours. Beat and mash the sugar. Add the 
stiff beaten whites of four eggi, mix thoroughly, and pour 
over it two and one half pints of ice water. Serve in 
tumblers. 

liemon Punch, No. 2.— Pare four large or five small 
lemonsand peel off the white rind. Take the pulp without 
the seeds, with the thin yellow peel and two teaspoonfuls 



MlSCELLAJfEOOS. U1 

of best green tea, and steep in one pint of boiling water ten 
minutes, taking care not to let it boil. Strain it and add a 
pound of sugar, over which has been squeezed the juice of 
two more lemons. Pour over another pint of boiling 
water and serve hot. Dilute according to taste. 

Liemon Tincture. — Pare the yellow rind very thin 
when lemons are used, and drop into a jar half filled with 
grape juice. Seal at oncf. 

liemon Wbey. — Boil as much milk as is required, squeeze 
a lemon, and add as much of the juice to the milk as '.vill 
make it clear. Mix with hot water, and sweeten to taste. 

Liemon Water.— Cut a fresh lemon into very thin slices, 
put them in a pitcher, and pour on one pint of boiling 
water. Let it stand till cold, sweeten to td,ste, and use. 

Milk Lemonade to keep a day or two.— Pare 

twenty- four large fresh lemons as thin as T)ossible; put 
eight of the rinds into three quarts of hot but not boiling 
water, and let it stand three hours. Rub fine sugar on 
the rind of the others, to absorb the essence. Put it in a 
china bowl, and'squeeze the juice from the lemons over it, 
after which add a pound and a half of fine sugar. Now put 
the water to the above, and add three quarts of boiling 
milk. Mix and pour through a jelly-bag. Use the day 
after made. 

Lemon Syrup.— To every pint of the juice of sound 
fresh lemons, take one pound and one quarter of sugar. 
Heat it, skim, and seal in glass jars. 

Orangeade, No. 1.— Squeeze three oranges upon three 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, add a dash of lemon juice, and fill 
with a pint of water. Orange syrup may be boiled and 
canned idr a summer drink precisely like lemon syrup. 

Orangeade, No. 3.— On a heaping pint of sugar pour 
a half pint of water and the beaten whites of two eggs. 



168 FKUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

Set it on the stove and let it boil, then strain it, and add a 
tumblerful of orange juice. Cool on the ice. 

Pine-appleade. — Peel and grate, or chop, a fine pine- 
apple and sprinkle it with pulverized sugar. Over it pour 
one quart of boiling water; sweeten to taste. Strain and 
chill on ice. 

Raspberry Syrup.— Mash and strain ripe red rasp- 
berries and make a syrup of a pound of sugar with one 
scant pint of water. Boil fifteen minutes, and to this syrup 
add one pint of berry juice, and simmer slowly, well 
covered, for half an hour. Seal when hot. In the same 
way make currant syrup, and a mixture of currants and 
blackberries, also plum syrup. If syrups are made on a 
damp, muggy day boil half an hour longer. 

Raspberry Vinegar.— This is made like Blackberry 
vinegar. 

Raspberry Acid.— Mash, strain and sweeten rasp- 
berry juice and dilute with water. Then dissolve four 
ounces of tartaric acid in two quarts of soft water, and 
pour over ten pounds of berries. Strain in forty-eight 
hours, and to every pint of juice add a pint of sugar. 
Bottle for flavoring beverages. • 

Raspberry Cordial — Weigh one pound of berries, 
crush them and stir into them one quart of water, one 
whole lemon sliced and the j uice of two oranges or a little 
orange-flower water. Mix, cover, and let it stand two hours, 
then strain and stir in one pint of sugar dissolved in a 
little boiling water. Set on the ice and serve. 

In the same manner prepare cherry, grape, or black- 
berry cordial. 

Strawberry "Water.— Crush one pound of ripe straw- 
berries with one half pound of fine sugar and let them 
stand three hours. Then add one cupful of water, the 
juice of one lemon, and stiain through a flue sieve. 
Other berries may be similarly prepared, adding more 
sugar if they are very acid. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 169 

Strawberry Syrup — Make a syrup of one pouad of 
sugar and one pint of water, and boil till it will spin a 
thread. Skim before it begins to boil. Add one pint of 
strawberry juice and boil for three-fourths of an hour. 
Seal hot. 

Strawberry Vinegar.— Over four quarts of straw- 
berries pour three quarts of vinegar. Cover, and at the 
end of three days strain, and to each quart of vinegar add 
one pint of white sugar. Let it come to a boil, skim and 
seal. 

Tamarind Water.— Boil two ounces of tamarinds, a 
scant cupful of currants, and one and one half cupfuls of 
raisins in four quarts of water till it is reduced to three 
quarts. Strain and cool. 

Tisane.— (French.) Chop fine a cupful of dried fruit, 
such as flga, dates or prunes, and steep for an hour in one 
quart of water. Strain, sweeten to taste, and use as a 
beverage. 

The following recipefe are taken from the "Vegetarian 
Messenger," London, Bng. 

Fresh Fruit Syrups.— 1. Gurrant Syrup : Take two 
quarts of red currants, mash them, and add one quart of 
water; let them stand till the next day, then run through 
a jelly-bag, aud to every pint of juice add one pound of 
loaf sugar. Put into a skillet, or preserving pan, place 
this on the Are, and let it boil gently for twenty minutes — 
removing all the scum as it rises — and when cold, bottle. 
To make a currant or any other fresh fruit drink, put a 
small wine-glass of the syrup to a tumbler of iced water. In 
all cases the best fresh fruit, free from stalks, etc., should be 
used, and then crushed with a wooden (not metal) instru- 
ment. All these syrups should be tightly corked when 
bottled. 3. Black Currant Syrup : To every quart of 
blackcurrants add one pint of water; put on the fire, and 
boil for twenty minutes. Then strain through a jelly- bag, 
and to every pint of juice add one pound of sugar. Again, 



no FETJITS AND HOW TO TJSE THEM. 

boil gently for another twenty minutes, and when cold, 
bottle for use. Quantity for syrup as above. 3. OJiei'Ty 
Byrup : Pick two pounds of Kentish cherries from the 
stalks; put all into a mortar, and pound the fruit, shells, 
and kernels. Add the juice of one lemon, then two quarts 
of water, and boilfor twenty minutes; now strain through 
a jelly-bog. To every quart of juice add two pounds of 
sugar. Again boil for tw^enty minutes, and when cold, 
bottle. If the cherries are stoned, then add essence of 
almond. 4. MoreUo Cherry Syrup : This is made the same 
way. 5. Raspberry Byrwp : Mash the laspberries, and to 
every quart add one pint of water. Let them remain till 
the next day; then run through the bag, and to every pint 
of juice add one pound and three-quarters of sugar. Boil 
for twenty minutes, and when cold, bottle. 6. Strawberry 
Syrup : This is done the same way. 7. Baspb crry or Strawberry 
Syrup (another way).' Take two quarts of frpsh. ripe rasp- 
berries or strawberries, five pounds of powdered loaf sugar, 
and add two pints and a half of water. Spread the 
powdered sugar over the fruit, and let it stand for four or 
five hours, then express the juice, strain, put on the fire to 
rise tc boiling point, and again strain. When cold, bottle. 
8. Raspberry or Strawberry Syrup (another way): Magji the 
fresh fruit, express and strain the juice, and to every quart 
of it add three pounds and a half of powdered sugar. Then 
heat to boiling point. When cold, bottle. 9. Pine-apple 
Syrup : Pare a West India or English pine of the outward 
skin, then cut it up and put it into a mortar and pound 
it— adding a pint of water by degrees to every pound 
of pulp; strain, and then add one pound of sugar to e^ery 
pint of juice; boil for twenty minutes, and when cold, 
bottle. 10. Nectarine, or Peaa Syrup: Take one pound of 
nectarines or peaches free from stones, and mash them in a 
mortar. Nov/ add one quart of water, and strain all 
through a bag. Put in two pounds of sugar, and bring 
this pulp to the boil. Add a small quantity of essence of 
almond, and when cold, bottle. 11.- Grape Syrup : Ma^^h a 
pound of grapes (black or white), and add one quart of 



MISCELLANEOUS. 171 

water. Then run them all through a bag, add two pounds 
of sugar, and bring to a boil. When cold, bottle. 13. 
Melon Syrup : Put one pound of melon into a mortaj-, and 
pound it fine. Throw in one quart of water ana the juioo 
of two lemons: run through a hag, and then add tv/o 
pounds of sugar. Now bring to the boil, and when cold, 
bottle. 



CANNED FRUIT. 

Every year witnesses the growth of the fruit-canning 
industry', as well as the inorease in the use of fruit in all 
ways. The process of sealing up cooked fruit in air-tight 
jars might be thought to be simple enough, but, like every 
other process of cooking, there is one right and many 
wrong ways. If worth doing at all it is worth doing in 
such a manner as to preserve the fine fresh flavor and keep 
the fruit whole and attractive in appearance. 

In the first place, can good fruit or none. No small, un- 
ripe, gnarly bearings should be sealed up for the winter's 
use. The fruit should be ripe but not overripe, fresh 
picked and cooked with very little sugar. 

In the second place, select glass cans, each having a por- 
celain-lined or glass cover which fits it perfectlj'. The 
rubbers should be fitted also, and those rejected which 
have become hard or stretched. They should be rinsed 
in warm, not hot, water, which toughens them. Before 
beginning to can: have each cover fitted to its jar and all 
well washed and sweet. Pint jars are bestin a smallfam- 
ily. If each jar is scalded when emptied and the cover 
washed and screwed on, it will be easy to begin the process 
of canning. 



Iffi FKUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

Small fruits ought to be picked in the morning while it 
is still fresh and cool, and the sooner they are cooked and 
in jars the better. A careful picking over and rejection 
of any that are unripe or inferior is presupposed. lu 
preparing large fruits use a silver knife, or if that is incon- 
venient, drop the cut fruit into cold water to prevent dis- 
coloration. 

Stew the fruit in a porcelain or granite kettle, using as 
little water as possible, and cook it very slowly. Hard 
boiling dissipates the delicate flavor, rapid boiling reduces 
it to a shapeless mass, yet boil it must or it will be sure 
to ferment. 

Where time will allow it is a good plan to pack the fruit 
in the jars in which it is to be sealed before it is cooked. 
Pill them to the top and set in a large kettle with wooden 
slats nailed across each other to make a flat bottom. Cot- 
ton cloth or muffin rings answer the same purpose, but 
the false bottom is safer and more convenient. Over the 
cans fold a clean towel and let them steam until the fruit 
is soft. If it is to be sealed without sugar till up each 
can from one heated for that purpose, take it out with a 
cloth to a table adjacent, and screw on the top wtich must 
be kept hot m a pan of hot water. In fact everything about 
the fruit must be kept hot. If there are bubbles of air in 
the jar, run dovm a silver spoon and let th em escape. Fill to 
the very brim, screw the top on to the utmost extent, and 
invert the jar on a tray or table in a cooler place. If there 
is leakage it can be detected at once. 

The length of time required for cooking is as follows : 

Cherries and huckleberries, five minutes. AU kinds of 
berries, grapes, and currants, six to eight minutes. Sliced 
or halved peaches and. gooseberries, ten minutes. Halved 
pears, quince, sliced pine-apple, whole peaches, twenty min- 



MISCELLANEOUS. 173 

utes. Strawberries are an esception to other berries and 
lequii'o to be cooked fifteen minutes, and crab-apple and 
whole pears half an hour. The time for apples depends 
on the vai-iety: they should be put up when tender. Ap- 
ples are excellent for winter use, either for pies, or better, 
plain sauce. Canned without sugar they are a welcome 
change from berries in the early spring, and are much su- 
perior to the acid, unripe fruit brought from the far 
south. 

In regard to the use of s agar every housekeeper will con- 
sult her own taste. * Some families reject food that is not 
oversweet like confections, others use less sugar. When 
sugar is used in canning it is better to heat it in the oven, 
frequently stirring to prevent burning, and turn it in just 
before the frait is pouied into the cans. Tvro tablespoon- 
fuls to a quart of berries, peaches, pears and apples should 
be sufficient. Currants, plums, and cherries require two 
or three times as much. Sasanna Dodd, M. D., who has 
given much attention to the preparation of fruits, gives the 
following table of proportions for stewed or canned fruit 
and fruit juices : also the proportions of water and sugar, 
by measure, for the different kinds of fruit. 

Prepared Fruit. 

Strawberries, .... 5 qts. 

Bed currants, ... . 5 " 

Bed raspberries, . . . . 5 " 
Black 1 aspLerries, ... 5 " 

Easpberries and currants, . . 6 " 

Blackberries, B " 

Gooseberries 6 ' 

" (for pies), , . . 6 " 

May cherries 5 " 

Black morello cherries, . . 5 " 
Seeded morello (for pies), , .5" 
Grapes, .,..•■ ^ " 



Vateb. 


SuQAR. 




1 cup >^ pint 


Iqt. 


?f cup. 


3 qts 


1 " 


3 " 


% " 


5pts. 


X ■' 


5 " 


X '■ 


3 " 


X" 


2 qts. 


2 " 


3ptS. 


2 " 


3 qts. 


% " 


2 •• 


1 ■' 


2 " 


2 cups (nearly) 


2 " 


(no sugar.) 



174 



FEUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 



Prepared Frfit. 

Cranberries, 

Peaches, 

Pears, 

Damson plums, .... 
Green or blue gage, . 

Bbied fruit. 
Apples (kiln dried). 
Peeled peaches (kiln dried), . 
TJnpeeled " "... 
Cherries (tart), .... 
Plirms (very tart), . . . . 
Prunes (or prunes and plums). 
Pears (peeled and out). 
Sweet currants, . . . . 
Baisius, 



Water. 
3 pts. 
1 qt. 

1 ■• 

" 5 pts. 

3 " 

Water. 
qt. 2 qts. 

2 " 

3 pts. 



3 " 
2 qts. 
5 pts. 
5 " 



SUQAR. 

1 cup 

(uo sugar.) 

2 cups. 
1 cup. 

Sugar. 
(no sugar.) 



X cup. 
(no sugar.) 



The secret of successful canning is to have jars with 
well-fitting covers, to keep everything hot, to fill the jars 
as full as they wiU liold, and seal them without a moment's 
delay. It is absolutely necessary that they should be as 
free from air as possible. Cook hut little fruit at a time. 
"Where stationary tubs are in the kitchen it is very conven- 
ient to keep the jars immersed in hot water in them. 
Lift them out, oue by one, to the top of the adjoining sta- 
tionary tub, on which stands an old tray containing a hot 
plate where each jar is to rest while filling. If any juice 
is spilled it can be returned to the preserving kettle which 
should be on the left. An attendant taking each jar as it 
is filled, wipes off the drippings from the top, screws on the 
cover and inverts it upon a table. 

There should be no metal used in canning, either in ket- 
tles, spoons, or ladles. Wooden spoon?, porcelain ladles, 
a silver fork and spoon, plenty of soft, clean cloths, and 
much patience and watchfulness are needed. 

In a few hours take up the jars and give another twist 
to the tops. As they cool, contraction follows. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 175 

Prepare labels written with black ink on white paper so 
as to be easily deciphered in the semi-darkness. Fasten 
on the side with flour-paste. A few drops of glycerine in 
a half cupful will prevent them from falling off when the 
paste dries. It is also useful to put in paste which se- 
cures the paper covers of jelly, marmalade and preserves. 
All kinds of canned and preserved fruit require dark- 
ness. Something in the light rays tends to fermentation 
and granulation. If it be not dark enough cover each jar 
with paper. If there ia n(j cool cellar, it is a good plan to 
pack jars of canned fru.il in boxes, fill the interstices with 
paper or sawdust and bury them deep enough to be below 
the reach of fi-ost. Fruit properly canned, that is, well- 
cooked and air-tight, sometimes sours if kept in a warm 
closet. Fruit that is stale, decaying or speckled, wiU not 
remain sweet. 

Canned Apples.— Stew the fruit and strain as for appl«- 
sauce, butlf^aveit unsweetened. Reheat it in the filled jars 
as described, see that no air bubbles are left in them and 
seal at once. Or peel, core and cut into eighths, stew in a 
preserving Itettle till tender but not broken, sweeten to 
taste, fill the jars and seal. Apples canned according to the 
first process will be found expecially agreeable in the late 
spring, after uncooked apples have lost their freshness. 

Canned Blackberries.— Make a syrup of one cup of 
sugar and one cup of water for each quart of berries, heat, 
skim, and let it come to a boil. Drop in the fruit and 
let it boil eight minutes, then fill the hot cans and seal. 
If the btrriej are heated in the cans, pour over them the 
syrup just below the boiling point, after the filled jars are 
placed upon the woodeii rack in the kettle of hot water, 
and heat gradually. Boil the fruit five minutes, take out the 
jars one by one, and seal. 

Canned Cherries.— Use the sour cherries for canning. 



176 FEUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

or the white, which are less rich but require less sugar and 
preserve their whiteness after being cooked. Foi common 
use many prefer to put up cherries without pitting them, but 
for ubvious reasons it is not the nicest way of preparing 
them. There are now sold machines for pitting which ro- 
duces that labor to a minimum. Make a syrup ol three- 
fourths of a pint of sugar to one cup of water for every two 
pounds of pitted cherries and juice, skim, throw in the fruit 
and boil five minutes. As there is nr> shape to retain it is 
not needful to cook the fruit in the jars. With every oan- 
f ul boil one tablespoonful of pits, tied loosely in a muslin 
bag, which may be taken out before the fruit is pouredinto 
the jars. 

To can white cherries select the largest and prick each 
once or twice with a coarse needle and put it in a glass jar. 
Place the jars upon the rack in hot water and fill them with 
boiling syrup, made a trifle less sweet than for sour red char- 
ries, let it boil five minutes and then seal. 

Canned Currants. — Add a large cupful of water to 
every two quarts of fruit and simmer till they are soft; it is 
impossible to keep them whole. Then add one cupful of 
sugar and simmer again and seal. The flavor is milder and 
more agreeable by adding to the currants one-fourth or 
even more of their measure of raspberries. 

Canned Peaclies.—Peel the fruit and throw into cold 
water. Make a syrup of one pint of sugar and one quai-t of 
■ water to every four pounds of fruit and let it come to a hard 
boil. Meantime cook the peaches In enough water to cover 
them till they are tender, skim them out, and without break- 
ing, drop them in the boiling syrup. Let them come to,a 
boil and seal in jars. 

Canned Pears.— Proceed as directed for peaches, but 
use less suear if they are very swee-^ 

CannedPlunis.— Allow half a pound of sugar to every 
pound of sour plums, and prick the skins of greengage 
plums each several times, before cooking. Make a syrup, 



MISCELLANEOUS. 177 

bring to the boiling point slowly, skim, cook the plums, and 
can when tender. 

Canned Pine-apple ^Peel the fruit, cut out the eyes, 

and holding the stem with a cloth wrapped about it, with 
the left hfind, pick it to pieces with a silver fork leaving the 
core on the stum. To every pound of pine-apple allow ten 
ounces of sugar, and cook from ten to fifteen minutes before 
canning. The fru:"t should cook clear and translucent. 

Canned Quinces.— Wash the quinces, cut out all defects 
and save peelings and corings for jelly. Make a syrup of 
one pound of sugar and one quart of water for every five 
pounds of fruit, into which skim the quince slices, rings or 
eighths which have been stewed till tender in water. Let 
it come to a boil, then seal in hot cans. 

Canned Kasplberries. — Steam them in the jars as here- 
tofore described, without adding either water or sugar, 
which may be added to ta-ste when the fruit is used. Or, 
and it is a much quicker method, cook and sweeten as in 
preparing curra,nts , using less sugar. Again, make a syrup 
as given in canning blackberries. 

Canned Strawberries. — As soon as the fruit is picked, 
wash it and remove the hulls. Place a layer of the fruit in 
a stone jar and sprinkle over it a handful of sug.ir. 
Over that place another layer and more sugar, just enough 
to make them fit for table use. Do not mash or stir them, 
but at the end of four hours the sugar will have drawn the 
juice from the fruit. Pour off the juice into the preserving 
kettle, to every quart add a quarter of a cupful of water 
and let it come to a boil. Drop in the drained strawberries 
and let them scald two minutes, then gently lift them out 
with a strainer, into cans standing in hot water. The jars 
ought to be only two-thirds full and must be immediately 
filled with the hot syrup and sealed. This method preser ves 
the fresh flavor of the fruit better than when it is boiled a 
longer time. If the syrup seems very thin cook ten min- 
utes before pouring over the berries, which must be kept 
hot. 



178 FRUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 



pe:^seeved feuits. 

Preserves are a rich preparation of fruit which is cooke:l 
■with ail equal weight of sugar. Happily this old-timo 
toothsome confection has given way to mere wholesome 
canned fruit, but now and then the housekeeper wishes to 
put up a few jars of preserves in honor of the olden time 
when tlie measure of a woman's efficiency in cooking i<iiv- 
tially rested upon her sweets. The less they are used tbe 
better. Occasionally a smiill portion in garnishing or fla- 
voring or in fancy dishes upon extra occasions may be ad- 
missible. 

In preserving, the fruit wiU remain whole by making a 
hot syrup by the addition of a very little water to the sugar 
and allowing it to come ta a boil. Then add the fruit, 
which should simmer gently until it is soft enough to allow 
a straw to penetrate it. Large frdits like peaches, pears 
and quinces are peeled, pitted and often divided in half. 
Small fruits are plunged directly into the boiling syrup, 
and when thoroughly cooked are skimmed out carefully so 
as not to break them. The s.^Tupisthen boiJed down and 
poured over the conserve. If it is not. very thick it is 
drained off in a day or two, boiled again and poui-ed over 
the fruit. This is sometimes repeated three or four times. 

Apple Preserve.;.— Make a syrup of one quart of sugar 
and two quarts of water, skim and boil. Pare, core and 
divide into quarters or eighths, according to their sizei 
fine, tart apples, allowing one pound of fruit to a half 
pound of syrup, and drop the secviorjs into cold water. 



MISOELL ' NEOUS. 179 

Take them ont and drop into the syrup, which must 
simmer gently, a few at a time. Cook till tender, skim out 
into jars kept in hot water, and drop more apples into the 
syrup. When the jars are two-thirds full, fill with hot 
syrup and seal like canned fruit. Flavor with lomon slices 
if desired. This makes a fine and not too rich preserve. 

Apple Preserves.— (Entire.) Take medium sized tart 
apples, peel and core from the blossom end, leaving the 
stem ; cook as above and seal 'n stone or glass. Crab- 
apples are preserved entire, without peeling. Make the 
syrup much richer by using one quart and one half of sugar 
to one quart of water. Prick the crab-apples before boil- 
ing. 

Apple Liemon Preserves.— Pare and quarter sweet 
apples and proceed as above. To each quart of fruit allow 
two lemons cut in thin slices and cooked in the syrup. 
Discard the seeds. 

Apple Ginger Preserves.- Peel, core and out the 
apples or chop them coarsely. To every pound of fruit 
allow an ounce of green ginger cut into fine pieces, and 
three-ft'urths of a pound of sugar. Stew the apple in a 
little water till it begina to be tender, drain and turn into 
the syrup in which the ginger has steeped. Let it come to 
a boil and it is done. By using a little more ginger and 
tying it in a thin muslin bag, it may be flavored without 
serving the ginger with the apple. The amount can be 
varied to suit the taste. 

Green Apple Preserves.— (Shirley Dare.) Gather 
your apples when they are the size of a walnut, with the 
stalks and a leaf or two on; put a handful of vine leaves 
into a preserving pan, then a layer of apples, then vine 
leaves and then apples, till it is full, and vine leaves pretty 
thick at the top, and iill it with spring wattjr; cover closely 
to keep in the steam, and set it on a slow fire till they 
grow soft, then take them out and take off the skins, and 
put them in the same water again with the vine leaves, 



180 FRUITS AND HOW TO USB THEM. 

■which must be quite c old, or it will make them crack. Put 
in a little rock-alum (a dessertspoonful to a twelve-quart 
kettle), and set them over a slow fire till they are green, 
then take them out and lay them on a sieve to drain. 
Make a good syrup, and give thema gentle boil for three days 
(j. e., once a day), then put them in small jars, with 
brandied paper over them, and tie them down tight. 

Barberry Preserves. — Pick the barberries free from 
stems, wash them, and for every quart take a little more 
than one pint of good molasses. Let it come to a boil, then 
drop in the barlierries and cook thrHe-qua.rters of an hour. 
When done they will be clear. Seal in jars. Some persons 
are so fond of the flavor of the barberry that nothing quite 
takes its place. 

Blackberry Preserves.— Allow three-fourths of a 
pound of sugar for every pound of fruit which is to be 
simmered in clear water till it is thoroughly cooked. Allow 
a teaoupful of water to a quart of bei-ries. Then throw in 
the sugar, boil up, skim and seal in cans. 

Cherry Preserves. — Stone the cherries, reserving 
every drop of juice. Weigh the fruit, allowing pound for 
pound of sugar. Put a layer of frui^for one of sugar until 
all is used up; pour over the juice and boil gently until the 
syrup begins to thicken. The short-stemmed red cherries 
or the morellos are best for preserves. 

Fig Preserves. — Take green figs, hardly ripe, and soak 
two hours in lemon juice and water, half and half, or 
vinegar and water. Make a syrup of one pint of sugar and 
half a cup -of water to each pound of fruit, boil and skim. 
Into it drop the drained flgs and simmer till they are 
tender. Skim them out and if the syrup is not thick b,Oil 
until it thickens. The last thing add the juice of one 
lemon to every three pounds of fruit and turu over the tigs 
which have been kept hot in jars. Seal at oncer 

Ouava Jelly.— (Southern Preserve.) Pare and quarter 
ripe guavas and drop the sections into cold water. Put 



MISCELLANEOUS. 181 

them into water enough to nearly cover them and simmer 
till they are tender, then sti-ain through linen, without 
pressing the fruit, banging ap the bags so they will drip 
all night. When all the juice has drained out boll it, un- 
covered, soitwill evaporate readily; skim, and atthe undof 
an hour add white sugar in the proportion of a scant pint 
to one pintof juice. Continue to let itsimmer till the jelly is 
clear, then add lirae-juioe, to taste. Simmer half an hour 
longer, skimming often, then poui: into jara of glass or 
stone and cover when cold. 

Mango Jelly is made like the gaava except that the 
mangoes are peeled, istoned and thrown into a very weak 
solution of lemon or lime-juice before cooking them. 

Preserved Citron Melon, No. l.Cut the melon in 
oblong strips, remove the skin and the soft pulp. Boil in 
water containing an ounce of alum to a gallon of water, 
and drain when tender. Make a syrup out of a cupful of 
water to a pound of sugar, boil up and clarify. This 
quantity of syrup will be sufficient for a pound of melon: 
add to it two sliced lemons. Immerse the citron in the 
boiling syrup, let it boil five minutes, and then seal in jars. 

Citron Preserves, ISTo. 2.— Peel and cut the citron in 
pieces an inch square; then boil in water until soft; drain 
off the water and add one pound of sugar to each pound of 
citron; to every Qve pounds of the preserve add one pound 
of raisins, one lemon sliced, half an ounce of whole cloves, 
and one ounce of stick cinnamon; dissolve the sugar, and 
when hot add the fruit, and simmer slowly for two hours. 

Currant Preserves.— Take equal weights of sugar and 
fruit: make a syrup of tl e former with a very little water, 
and drop in the ripe fruit. Boil fifteen minutes, and seal in 
stone jars or glass cans. 

Huckleberry Preserves.— Nearly fill jars of stone or 
glass with huckleberries, and fill them up with good 
molasses. Cover and set away. They are good for wiater 
use. 



188 FEtJITS AND HOW TO USE TH EM. 

Orange Preserves.— Take any number of oranges, 
with rather more than their weight in white sugar. Slight- 
ly grate thf oranges and score them round with a knife, but 
do not cut deep. Put thetn in cold water for three days, 
changing the water two or three times a day. Tie them 
up in a cloth, and boil until they are soft enough for a pin to 
penetrate the skin. While they are boiUng place the sugar 
on the fire, with rather more than half a pint of water to 
each pound; let it boil for a minute or two, then strain it 
through muslin. Put the oranges into the syrup till it jel- 
lies and is of a yellow color. Try the syrup by putting some 
to cool. It must not be too stiff. The syrup need not cover 
the oranges but they must be turned, so that each pai t gets 
thoroughly done. 

Preserved Orange Peel.— Weigh the oranges whole 
and allow pound for pound. Peel the oranges neatly, and 
cut the rind into narrow shreds. Boil until tender, chang- 
ing the water twice, and replenishing with hot water from 
the kettle. Squeeze the strained juice of the oranges over 
the sugar, let this heat' to a boil, put in the shreds and boil 
twenty minutes. 

Orange and Rhubarb Preserves.— Peel six large, 
nice, thin skinned oranges, taking off all the white rind, 
a,nd slice the oranges into a porcelain kettle. Take out all 
the pits and cut half of the yellow rind inio small pieces and 
put with it. Add two pounds of rhubarb stalks cut into 
small pieces, a teacupful of water and three and a half cup- 
fuls of sugar. Boil till the rhubarb is soft, and seal. 

Peacli Preserves, No. 1.— Pare the fruit and to each 
pound add one pint of sugar. Make a syrup with one cup 
of water to a pound of fruit, and when it boils drop in the 
entire peaches. Simmer till they are tender, and seal; 
Half a dozen kernels cooked with each pound of fruit im- 
proves the flavor. 

Peach Preserves, No. 2. —Peel, and remove the pits, 
allow pound for pound and put fruit and sugar ia layers in 



ff. MiSOELLANieoUS. 183 

a stone jar. On the second day drain them through a 
colander or coarse sieve, boil up the syrup, skim and turn 
over the peaches. Repeat this three days, then seal. The 
flavor is better than when the fruit is cooked. 

Pears Preserved Whole, N"o. 1.— Take pears when 
not too ripe, and set them over the fire in a sufficient 
quantity of cold water, letting them, simmer, but not 
boil. When they are softened, take them out, peel them 
carefully, prick them with a pin, and put them on again in 
fresh water, with the juice of a lemon; let them boil rapidly, 
and when they are sufficiently done so that a pin will pass 
readily through them without the least resistance, take 
them out and put them into cold water. In the meantime 
have ready some hot thick syrup, and having well drained 
the pears, pour it over them. Let them stand for twency- 
f our hours, and then give them a gentle boil. Take them. 
again out of the syrup and dip them in cold water, after 
which pour hot syrup upon them, and when they have stood 
three days give them another boil ; when cold, take them out 
drain them, and put them into bottles, then thicken the 
syz"up by a few boilings, and pour over them. Pears peeled 
and cored are preserved like apples. 

Preserved Pears, If o. 2.— Peel three pounds of pears 
and place them in a stew-pan; cover them with water, and 
let them stew two hours. Take them out and put them in 
a brown jar with three fourths of a pound of loaf sugar^ 
and two tablespoonfuls of the water they were stewed in to 
each pound. Add a little candied lemon, cut in small 
pieces, or a few cloves, if preferred. Place the cover on the 
jar, and stew them in an oven for two hours. 

Pine-apple Preserves, No, 1.— Pare, cut in slices, 

core, and weigh the fruit, allowing pound for pound of 
sugar and fruit. Put in alternate layers in the kettle and 
pour in water, allowing fjalf ateaoupful to each pound of sug- 
ar. Heat to a boil. Take the slices out and spread upon 
dishes in the sun. Boil the syrup half an hour, skimming 



184 FRUITS AOT) HOW TO USE THEM. 

it cdrefuUy. Put the pine-apple again in the kettle and boil 
fifteen minutes, then take out and pack in ■wide-mouthed 
jars. 

Pine-apple Preserves, Ifo. 3.— Peel the pine-apple, 
and pick into small bits with a silver fork. To every pound 
allow three -fourths as much sagar. Let it stand overnight, 
and in the morning boil slowly ten or twelve minutes, then 
seal. 

Pine-apple Preserves, N"o. 3.— Pare the pine -apple 
anfi remove ever3- particle of skin or eyes, and slice thin. 
To every pound of prepared fruit take a heaping pint of 
sugar. In a large glass jar put a thick layer of dry sugar, 
then a layer of the sliced fruit, and so continue to do till 
the jar is full, leaving a thick layer of sugar last of all. 
Cover closely with several layers of thin paperpasted tight- 
ly on, or with bladder to keep out the air. If kept very cool 
and dark it will not ferment, but have the flavor of the fresh 
fruit. 

Plum Preserves. —Make a syrup of clean, brown sugar 
and clarify it; when perfectly clear and boiling hot, pour it 
over the plums. Let them remain in the syrup two days, 
then drain it off; make it boiling hot, skim it, and pour it 
over again; let them remain another day or two, then put 
them in a preserving kettle over the fire, and simmer gen- 
tly until the syrup is reduced, and thick or lich. Use one 
pound of sugar to each pound of plums. 

Quince Preserves, Orange Flavor.— Peel and core 
the quinces and to every quart of the fruit allow two oran- 
ges thinly sliced. Mix these together and steam till tender, 
while the cores and skins are simmering in enough water 
to cover them. Cook about two hours, or until the water 
thickens to a jelly, then strain and throw into it a pound 
of sugar for every pound of the peeled and cored fruit. 
Boil together to a .'syrup, and then drop into it the softened 
quarters of quince, which, however, should not be soft 
enough to drop to pieces. Let thom simmer, not boil, over 



MISCELLANEOUS. 185 

a slow fire for an hour, when they may be sealed in cans. 
If preferred lemon may be used in place of orange, in which 
case take one lemon to two quarts of fruit. 

Quince Preserves, No. 3.— Peel, core and weigh, us- 
ing only large quinces, and making the eighths of the fruit 
as exact and even as possible. Extract the gelatine from 
cores and peelings by stewing them in water several hours. 
Simmer the eighths in a little water till they are tender, 
then skim them out and pour into the kettle with the wa- 
ter in which they have been cooked the gelatinous liquor 
of the strained stems and cores. Throw into it half the 
weight of sugar as of quinces, let it come to a boil, drop in 
the quinces, let it boil again, and seal. 

Raisin Preserves. — (Catharine Owen.) Peel and quar- 
ter a dozen large apples. Put them over a slow fire with a 
cupful of cider and a pound of sugar. When they are ten- 
der stone five pounds of fine pulpy Valencia rai.sins with 
water enough to prevent burning. Let them cook slowly 
till they are dissolved and stiff. Beat the whole through a 
colander and then through a sieve and pack in small jars. 
When about to use it, cut in thin slices and dust each with 
Confectioners' sugar. This is delicious eaten with cream- 

Strawberry Preserves.— (Wiesbaden Style.) With five 
quarts of good, firm berries, procure also three or four 
boxes of softer fruit, which is to be hulled and spread out on 
a flat dish in order to draw out all the juice. Weigh out 
five pounds of broken loaf sugar, and scatter over this soft 
fruit and let it stand several hours. In the morning, or 
whenever all the juice seems expressed, squeeze the fruit 
through a jelly-bag and pour it into a preserving kettle, in- 
to which throw about three pounds more of loaf sugar. 
The exact quantity can be found by measuring the juice 
and the hulled, firm berries, which should be whole, large 
and sound, still keeping them separate, and allowing a 
pound of sugar to a pint of fruit and juice. Boil the fruit 
juice and sugar, skimming as it begins to bubble, and then 
gently slide in the berries; they will check it just enough to 



186 FRUITS AND HOW TO USE THEJl 

prevent them trom hardening, while the b.jiling syiup will 
have the tendency to keep the juice within thj borries. 
Simmer for thirty minutes, from the time the fruit is add- 
ed, removing the scum ftom the top when necessary, and 
pour into wide-mouthed bottles with a teaspoonful of olive 
oil on the top. When carefully made these preserves equal 
the best imported fruit. Tlie berries must be selected 
from the firmest fruit in market. 

Preserved Water-Melon Kind.— Peel the rind after 
cutting it into oblong or fancy shapes, and throw it into a 
porcelain kettle or stone jar. Fill it up with cold water to 
extract the juice, and to every pound of fruit allow one 
teaspoonful of salt and a saltspoontul of powdered alum. 
Jiet the rind remain in the water three hours, then drain 
and pour over cold water, and let it stand three hours long- 
er. At the end of that time simmer the rind in clear water 
till it begins to look clear. Drain and make a syrup of 
pound for pound or a little less sugar, and a cupful of wa- 
ter for every two pounds of sugar, and add. a little green 
ginger cut in small bits. Skim, drop in the rinds, and let it 
heat through slowly, then simmer lill they are clear and ten- 
der though not broken. Skim the preserves into hot glass 
jars, boil down the syrup if it is not sufficiently thick, add 
enough lemon juice to give a distinct flavor, pour over the 
preserve and seal. If the rinds are too soft they may be 
spread on plates in the oven before putting in the jars. 
Use orange peel and juice in place of lemon if desired. 

Tutti Frutti Preserves.— This is made pound for 
pound of sugar, of every variety of fruit, beginning with 
strawberries. It is to be weighed, boiled and skimmed 
like any other preserve, and each, when cooked, is turned 
into the omnium-gatherum, a stone jar closely covered 
and kept in a cool place Some housekeepers insist that it 
cannot be kept without brandy unless it is sealed after 
adding each variety of fruit. Hard fruit like pine-apples, 
quinces and pears must br^ parboiled till tender before add- 
ing the sugar. Lemon and orange juice are used instead 
of the pulp, but the grated yellow rind is necessary. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 187 

1 toned raisins and cocoanut, currants and berries, cherries 
and plums, peaches and pears, all are welcome in a pre- 
serve which has little to recommend it but oddity. 



HOW TO KEEP JELLY AND PRESERVES. 

When jelly is cold and firm, cut a ro.md of white paper 
to fit the top of the glass, and dip it in the beaten white 
of an egg. Press it down close to the jellj' ; if it lines the 
side of the glass an eighth of an inch, it will do no harm. 
Over this place a layer of smooth white cotton batting, 
fitting it closely to the glass. Absorbent cotton is best, 
but common cotton batting will do if the jelly is firm. 
Over all paste a round of paper, or paper dipped in white 
of egg. Be sure the jelly is stored where mice cannot nib- 
ble the paper and eat the jelly. 

Again, pour over the jelly a layer of melted paraffine, 
melted, but not hot, just warm enough to run. It will 
harden rapidly. Then paste over the glass a round of soft 
paper. When the jelly is used, melt the paraffine and 
save till the following year. 

For preserves, put up in oiDeu-aiouthed jars, see that they 
are full, then put over the preserve egg paper and then ab- 
sorbent or common cotton batting. Melt together one 
part mutton tallow and two parts of bees- wax. Dip a clean 
white cloth in the mixture and spread it quickly over the 
mouth of the jar. 

Cotton batting spread over the top cf canned fruit and 
under the cover will prevent mold. Be careful to see 
that it is not caught in the screws of the cover. 

Preserves keep best in a store-room both cool and dry. 
They may be simply tied or sealed with paste where ver- 



188 PETTITS AND HOW TO US 3 THEM. 

min will not attack them, and each jar will have its appro- 
priate label. It is necessary, thea, that they should be 
placed where they will be secure from vermin. But it is 
better to have them in glass and covered like canned 
fruit. 

Where paste is used, a few drops of glycerine in each 
ounce will prevent the label from curling up or dropping 
off. It is equally efficacious for mucilage. 



CANDIED FEUITS. 

Candied fr;iitSj put up with that artistic taste peculiar 
to the nation, are yearly exported from France in largely 
increasing quantities. In comparison with tlie deft work 
of the Gallic confectioner, the candied fruit of the Pacific 
coast is still lacking in those qualities which please the 
eye, but every year shows improvement in this respect 
over the preceding. It only needs the skill which comes 
from practice to supercede the foreign with the domestic 
article. 

Among fruits preserved by the process of candying are 
mainly, cherries, pears, apricots, plums, peaches, pine-ap- 
ples, figs, citrons, oranges, melons, and lemons. C. B. 
Masnu, Esq. , formerly Uniteil States Consul at the port of 
Marseilles, has given a report of the method of crystallisa- 
tion peculiar to South-eastern Fraace, of which the follow- 
ing is a condensation : It may be premised that the ex- 
port of candied fruits from France finds a direct market, 
not only in this country and in England, but in Algiers, 
the East and West Indies, and even South America, those 
countries whei'e fresh fruit, ripening every day in the year, 



MISCELLANEOUS. 189 

would seem to precladethe desirability of its preservation. 
Mr. Masousays: 

" The fruit is first carefully assorted in respect to size e.nd 
uniform degrees of ripeness. Pears, pine-apples, and 
quinces are pared, citrons are cut in quarters and soaked 
in s'-a-water, abd the pits of apricots, cherries aud 
peaches are i-arefullj'' removed. The storie must be re- 
moved witb as little injury as possible to the form and so- 
lidity of the fruit. 

" Thus prepared, the fruit is immersed in boiling water, 
which quickly peneti'ates the pulp, dissolving and diluting 
the juice, which is thereby nearly eliminated, whun the 
fruit is subsequently taken from the water and drained, 
leaiving only the solid portion of the pulp intact. 

" The process of "blanching" must also be done with exact 
nicety. If immersed too long, the pulp is either over- 
>.ooked or is left too dry and woody. If taken out too 
soon, the juices ]eft in the pulp prevent perfect absorption 
of the sugar afterward, and by eventual!}^ causing fermen- 
tation ilestroy the yalne of the product. In this, as in 
other stages of the process, the only gaide is experience. 

"After being thus scalded, some fruits, apricots, for ex- 
ample, are agsin assorted into two or three classes, accord- 
ing to the degree of softness that has been produced, for 
the reason that if kept together they would take up the 
sugar differently, some losing their form entirely, while 
others would remain sufficiently impregnated. Fur these 
different grades sugar ajrrups of different degrees of densi- 
ty are required, the softer the fruit the stronger the syrup 
required for its preservation. 

"For the same reason each of these different varieties of 
fruit requires a syrup of corresponding strength. 

"Pears, citrous and pine-apples, which remain bard and 



190 FRUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

firm, take best a syrup haviug a density of 18 to 25 degrees, 
while apricots, plums and figs are treated with syrups 
which gauge from 30 to 40 degrees by the aerometer. 

" The requisite syrup having been prepared by dissolving 
the sugar in pure water, the fruit is immersed in it and 
left at rest for a certain period in large earthenware pans, 
glazed inside, and having a capacity of about eight gallons. 

" The syrup penetrates the pulp and gradually withdraws 
and replaces the remaining fruity juice, which, as it exudes 
and mingles with the transparent liquid, produces a cer- 
tain filmy or clouded appearance, which marks the com- 
mencement of fermentation. When this has reached a 
certain stage, the vessel containing the syrup and fruit is 
placed over the fire and heated to 212 degrees F. This 
corrects the fermentation, and raises all impurities to the 
surface, whence, if necessary, they can be removed by 
skimming. If the syrup is of proper density, this process 
of impregnating the fruit with sugar will be complete in 
about six weeks, during which time it is usually necessary 
to perform this heating process, as above described, three 
times. 

" The impregnation of the fruit with sugar being thus 
complete, it is taken out, washed in pure water to remove 
the flaky particles that adhere, and is submitted to one or 
two finishing processes, as follows : 

" If the fruit is to be " glazed," that is, covered with ice 
or transparent coating, it is dipped in a thick, viscid syrup 
of sugar and left to dry and harden rapidly in the open 
air. If it is to be "crystallized" it is dipped into the 
same syi'up, but is then cooled and dried slowly in a kiln 
or chamber warmed to a temperature of ninety degrees, 
Fahrenheit. 

"This slow cooling causes the thick syrup with which the 



MISCELLANEOtrS. 191 

fruit is covered to crystallize and assume the usual granu- 
lated appearance. The work is di.w finished. If proper- 
ly done, the fruit thus preserved -will bear transportation 
to any climate, and will teep, firm and unchanged, for 
years. It is packed in light wooden or card-board boxes, 
and may be shipped in cases containing several hundred 
pounds each. " 

Mr. Mason proceeds to say that the syrup in which the 
fruit is immersed gradually deteriorates by losing sugar 
and absorbing juices. It is then utilized in making pastas 
or confections, which are simply the soft, uncooked and ir- 
regular shaped pieces of fruits of all kinds mingltid togeth- 
er into a jam in the spent syrup, which is boiled down to 
the proper consistencj'. This may either be sealed iu 
glasses or dried in pastes, cut into cubes and dusted with 
powdered sugar. 

Candled, or Cystallized Fruit or Nuts.— (Mrs Camp- 
bell.) Bo.l one cap of granulated sugar and one cup boil- 
ing water for half an hour. Dip the point of a skimmer 
into the syrup and then into cold water. If the thread 
formed breaks off brittle the syrup is ready. The syrup 
must never be stirred but must boil slowly. When done 
set the saucepan iu boiling water or pour the syrup into a 
bowl plj,ced in hot water to keep the syrup from candying. 
Take the prepared fruit or nuts on the point of a large 
needle or fine skimmer, dip them into the syrap and then 
lay them on a dish, which has been lightly buttered or 
oiled, or string them on a thread, and after dipping in the 
syrup suspend them by the thread. When oranges are used 
divide them into eighths and wipe off all moisture. 

Candled Fruit, STo. 2.— Peel small pears or' peaches 
but leave in cores and pits, and boil till tender in a syrup 
madeof one pjntof sugar and one teaoupful of water, Iiet 
the fruit stand in the syrup three days, drain, sprinkle 
with pulverized siagar and dry in a cool oven. 



193 FEUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

Candied Fruit Pastes.— Over a slow Are boil the juice 
of peTohes, pears, and quinces, or apples and quinces, un- 
til it becomes a thick jelly. Then dry in a slow oven in 
shallow dishes, sprinltliug in a. little crushed sugar, until 
it becomes a thick paste. Pack in tumblers and covet 
with paper dipped in white of egg. It will keep for years. 

Frosted Fruit. — Dip fine bunches of ripe currants, one 
at a time, into the beaten white of an egg, fully moistening 
the surface of each globe. Then roll the hunches in 
powdered sugar so that every part will be covered, and lay 
Ihem carefully on white paper spread overall inverted 
sieve. Dry in a very cool oven. Cherries may be similarly 
prepared if the stems are left attached. Plums and grapes 
may be dipped in the egg and placed upon the paper before 
sifting sugar over them. They make a pleasing garnish for 
cakes and desserts. 

Candied Iiemon.— (Condensed from Catharine Owen.) 
As lemons are used drop the yellow rind into a weak brine 
in a glass jar. When a dozen are thus pickled they are 
freshened by putting them into cold water and letting 
them scald, changing the water once or twice to extract 
the salt. Boil them in the last water till they are thorough- 
ly tender, and drain. Then make syrup enough to cover 
them out of slightly more than a pound of sugar and a pint 
of water, using always the same proportion of pint for 
pound. Cut the peelings into dice about half an inch 
square, and drop them into the boiling syrup, which is 
allowed to cook slowly till the peelings look translucent. 
Then keep them slowly steeping till the syrup has almost 
dried out of the peel, spread on plates, sprinkle with more 
sufrnr, and set in a cool oven to complete the drying. 

Candied Orange Peel.— (Mrs. Todd.) Soak the skin.s 
in salt and water three or four days, then throw them into 
cold water and boil till tender; meanwhile clarify weight 
for weight of sugar. Scrape out all the pulp and strings, 
case one witbio £i.nother and put them in a stone jar. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 193 

When the syrup is cold pour it over them, am] as it grows ' 
thin, drain, add sugar enough to make the syrup rich again, 
and when it is quite cold pour it over the peelings again. 
Let them remain till they are transparent, then take them 
out, let them lie on the back of a sieve and dry in a slow 
oven. Take each one on the point of a fork and dip quick- 
ly in the syrup, the rounded part uppermost, and lay them 
again on the sieve to dry. When dried case them one 
■within another and store in a dry place. 



FRUIT AND GELATINE, JELLIES AND SPONGES. 

Fruit jellies with gelatine as a basis are suitable for 
summor use or as a table decoration. Though they have 
little value, for nourishment they are always delicious. 

Upon the packages of prepared gelatine or within them 
ai'e directions for the preparation of jelly, which a novice 
can hardly fail to understand. If, instead of cold water 
the gelatine is put to soak in fresh fruit juice, then sweat- 
eued, strained and cooled, the result will be a dish pleasant 
alike to the eye an \ the palate. As the acidity of fruit 
varies, sugar must be added to the taste, remembering 
that it seems to the tongue less sweet when cool than 
when warmi 

Apple Jelly, No. 1.— Soak half a box of gelatine half an 
hour in one pint of cider fresh from the press. Pour over it 
one cupful of boiling water, stir in about one cupful of 
sugar, and the juice of one lemon. S crain, and set in a cool 
place. 

Apple Jelly, No. 2. — (Marion Harland.) One dozen well- 
flavored apples, two cupfuls powdered sugar, juice o' two 
lemons, and half a package of gelatine soaked in a scant 
cupful of cold water. Pare and slice the apples, j)utting 



101 FP^JITS ATsD HOW TO "JSE THEM. 

each piece in cold water to preserve the color. Pack them 
in a glass or stone-ware jar with just enough cold water to 
cover them, put on the top loosely that steam may escape, 
set, in a pot of warm water and bring to a boil. Cools until 
the apples are broken to pieces. Have ready in a bowl the 
soaked gelatine, sugar and lemon juice. Strain the apple 
scalding hot over them; stir until the gelatine is dissolved; 
strain again, this time through a flannel bag, without squeez- 
ing it. 

Banana Jelly, No. 1.— (Mrs. Keeler in Good House- 
keeping.) Soak one ounce of gelatine in half a pint of 
cold water ten minutes; add to this a fall pint of boiling 
water, the juice of tivo lemons and half a pint of granu- 
lated sugar. Stir well together and strain through a jelly- 
bag or flue wire-strainer. Pour an inch deep in a mold, 
add a few slices of banana, and set outdoors in winter, or 
in the refrigerator in summer, until it hardens, keeping the 
remainder in a warm place. As soon as the first stiffens 
put another layer of bananas and jelly, again setting away 
to harden until all is used. This makes a sightly dish when 
served with whipped cream around the base. 

Banana Jelly, No. 2.— Make a jelly as in No. 1., then 
peel and cut cross ways in thin slices three oranges, peel 
and slice three bananas, and when the jelly is cool put » 
layer of it in the mold, a layer of oranges, one of bananas, 
then the jelly, and proceed as before. 

Berry Jelly.— Raspberries and blackberries must bo 
stewed till soft in a very little water. CJrush them and 
strain out the juice, let it cool, and soak one box of gelatine 
in one pint of juice. Sweeten, pour over a quart of boiling 
water and strain mto m-jids. Serve with wMpped '.cream. 

Cherry Jelly.— Dissolve one box of gelatine in one pint 
of cherry juice, either drained from canned fruit or ex- 
pressed from the fresh. Let it stand one hour. Then add 
one quart of boiling water, tiie juice and grated rind of two 
lemons, and about three-fourths of a pint of sugar, to the 
uncooked juice, Strain and pour in jelly molds. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 19S 

Cranberry Jelly.— Soak the gelatine in one pint of 
ciT,nberry juice for an liour, add one pint of sugar, and 
turn over it one quart of boiling water. Strain, turn into 
a mold, and cool. This will take an entire box of gelatine. 
The cranberry juice is obtained by stewing the berries in a 
very Tttle water till soft, then mash them with a wooden 
spoon and strain through a jelly-bag. One quart of berries 
will make a little more than a pint of juice. 

Chocolate Jelly. —Soak half a box of gelatine in half a 
cup of cold water for an hour. Into one pint of milk, 
boiling, add two ounces of grated chocolate and the dis- 
solved gelatine. Let it boil, then take it from the fire, add 
half a cup of sugar and half a teaspoonful of vanilla. Let 
it partially cool, stir till thick, add a pint of ci-eam whipped 
to a froth, stir till mixed, pour into a mold, and serve with 
whipped cream. 

Currant Jelly. — Soak two ounces of gelatine in one 
pint of cold water for an hour. Put juice, gelatine and 
one pint of sugar into a porcelain kettle, let it come to the 
boiling point, then strain and cool. Buf ore it is still add the 
whites of three eggs, beaten to a froth, and beat all together 
till light and frothy. Pour into a mold and set on the ice 
several hours before serving. 

Currant Flummery.— This is made without gelatine, 
but seems to come in this department. To the juice of two 
quarts of mashed and strained currants, add one pint of 
granulated sugar. Out of this take one pint to pour upon 
one pint of ground rice, which must be blended till it is per- 
fectly smooth. Boil the remainder of the j uice in a farina 
kettle, in whichstirthe thickened juice carefully to prevent 
lumping. Cook till thick, pour into one large or several 
small cup molds. Set on the ice and serve with sweetened 
cream. 

Currant Ice.— Squeeze currants with or without 
a mixture of raspberries, through a jelly- bag, and to 
each pint of juice add the same quantity of water and sug- 



196 FRUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

ar. Heat, aud when boiling hot. pour itslowly over the well- 
beaten whites of three eggs, stirring constantly till it is 
perfectly cold. Freeze hard. 

Currant Sherbet.— Pour one pint boiling water over 
one pint of loaf sugar. Let it sioimer half an hour, add 
one pint of currant juice and the juice of two lemons. 
Fteeze when cold. 

Grape "Water-Ice.— To every quart of water allow half 
as much grape-juice, by measare, and the same amount of 
sugar as of juice. Make a syrup, and when it is cold add 
j uice and freeze. 

Iiemoa Water-Ice, No. 1. — Make a rich lemonade 
with one third the quantity of lemon j uico as of water, to 
every three lemons allowing the j uice of one orange. When 
partly frozen siir in the whites of three eggs. 

Leinon Ice, No. 3. — Dissolve a heaping tablespoonful 
ofgelatinein half a pint of water, pour over a quart of 
boiling waterand the strained juice of six lemons. Sweet- 
en with three-fourths of a pint of sugar and freeze. 

Lemon Jelly. —Cover half a box of gelatine with one 
pint of cold water, into which break a small stick of cinna- 
mon. At the end of an hour add a cupful of sugar, the 
juice of two good-sized lemons, and a pint of boiling water. 
Strain, mold and cool. 

Orange Jelly.— Make like lemon jelly, except that it 
needs a little less sugar and no cinnamon. 

Lemon and Orange Jelly.— For one box of gelatine 
use two large lemons and the juice of two large oranges. 
Proceed as with other jellies. 

Peach, Plum and Pear Jellies Stew the fruit in 

little water, strain, apd use one pint of the j uice in wbich to 
soak one box of gelatine. Sweeten, pour over a full quart 
o'' boUing water, strain and cool. Juice left after canning 



MISCELLANEOUS. 19? 

fruit can be utilized in this manner It should be made 
the day before it is used. 

Pine-apple Jelly, No. l.-^eel and chop fine one pine- 
n.pple and let itsoak three hours with the juice and grated 
rind of a lemon and two cups of sugar, with a trifle of grated 
II utmeg. Then pour into it one ounce of isinglass dissolved 
in a teacupful of oold water, and lastly a pint of boiling 
water. Strain and press hard to expel the juice from the 
pine-apple. Pour into a mold and set on ice. 

Another way is to use three cupf uls of boiling water in- 
stead of a pint, and while the jelly is hardening to beat into 
it the well whipped whites of three eggs. It must be added 
!i spoonful at a time. Cover the top with the meringue 
made by the white of an egg, a tablespoonful of powdered 
sugar and twice as much grated pine-apple. 

Pine-apple Jelly, Jfo. 2.— Soali half a box of gelatine 
an hour in a, cup of cold water and stir in a cup of sugar. 
Add a little more than half a cup of the liquor drained from 
a can of pine-apple, and a half pint of boiling water. Strain, 
stir in a cupful of the pine-apple chopped fine, turn into a 
mold', and set on ice. 

Quince Jelly.— Cut small, inferior quinces into pieces, 
discarding stems and imperfections, and stew with one pint 
of water to one quart of cut fruit. At the end of three 
hours, or before it is soft enough to breajs into jam, strain 
and use the juice for soalsing gelatine. It will need only 
two-thirds as much as in other fruit juices. Sweeten, strain, 
and cool as usual. 

Sti'awberry Jelly.— Over a quart of fresh berries throw 
a cupful of sugar and set aside, in an earthen dish, to ex- 
tract the juice. At the same time soak one box of gelatine 
in a pint ot cold water, and, at the end of an hour, put in 
one cup of sugar and pour ov-sr it one pint of boUing water. 
Oush the strawberries and press them through a fine sieve 
and pour the dissolved gelatine over them through the 
i^ieve so as to lose none of the jiiice. Strain, taold and 



198 i'KUI'rs AND flow To USE otem. 

cool. There should be a full pint of the strawberry juice* 
if inortj, use less water, so there will be no more liquid 
than the gelatine recipe calls for. In like manner propor- 
tion the sugar to the sweetness of the fruit. It is nice to 
pour the gelatine in the mold in layers with large selected 
strawberries, first liquid, then berries Serve with cream. 

Apple Sponge.— Make a rich apple-saiice seasoned with 
sugar and lemon. To every pintandahalf of apple take one 
ounce of gelatine, soak in half a cupful of water.and dissolve 
over a boiUng tea-kettle. Stir it into the apple and press 
through a sieve; when cold beat in the stiff beaten whites of 
four eggs, and continue till it is stiff and lighv, then pour 
into a mold and set on ice. Serve with cream or thin boil- 
ed custard. 

Banana Sponge. — Dissolve an ounce of gelatine in two 
tablespoonfuls of cold water, and in a quarter of an hour 
pour over a pint of boiling water. Stir into it the juice of 
one lemon and a cupful of sugar, and let the gelatine 
thoroughly dissolve. Strain through a thin bag and Idt it 
cool. Cut three bananas into small pieces and beat them 
to a pulp with an egg-beater, then whip to a froth the 
whites of two eggs, which are then beaten into the banana 
cream. When the gelatine is cold beat it into the egg arid 
banana, a little at a time, till it is quite stiff. Serve with 
cream, or a thin custard made with the yolks of the two 
eggs and a pint of milk. 

Blackberry Sponge.— Soak half a box of gelatine in 
five tablespoonfuls of cold water twenty minutes, pour ovei- 
it two cupfuls of boiling water and four or fivj tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, and into it turn a large cupful of blackberry 
juice. Strain it, set in on ice, and when cold, not hard, add 
the well-beaten whites of three eggs and beat till it is thick 
and light. Harden in a mold. 

Cherry Sponge.— This is made like Blackberry sponge, 
except that it requires a little moie sugar. 

Currant Sponge.— Make like theabove, using afull cup 



MISGELLANEODS. 199 

of sugar, ont) cup of currant juice, or currant and raspberry 
mixed, half a box of gelatine, and orieoupful of boiling water. 
When cold beat in the beaten whites of three eggs. 

Fig Sponge.— Soak half a pound of plump figs in warm 
water till they are soft, and split each in two. Dissolve half 
an ounce of gelatine in two tablespoonf uls of cold water, 
heat one pint of milk and stir into it two well-beaten 
eggs, with two heaping tablespoonf uls of sugar, which must 
be stirred over the fire tiL it thickens. Set the soaked gela- 
tine over the top of a boiling tea-kettle till it melts, itir it 
into the custard and set away to cool. When cool, but not 
thick, whip it with an egg-beater, and gradually add the 
weU-beateil white of an egg. Dip the sections of spJit fig 
in any kind of jelly, which must be slightly warmed first, 
and with them line the interior of a buttered |)udding- 
mold, into which pour the custard sponge which has been 
beaten till very light and flavored with a teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Set in a cool place overnight. 

Liemon Sponge.— Soak an ounce of gelatine in half a 
cupful of cold water half an hour, and while soaking 
squeeze the juice of four lemons upon a large cupful of sug- 
ar, then beat the yolks of four eggs to a foam and mix with 
two-thirds of a pint of water. Into this stir the lemon and 
sugar, and cook in a farina kettle till it beginis to thicken, 
then add the gelatine. Strain it into a basin or large bowl, 
and set in ice-water, occasionally beating it till it is cool 
but not hard. Then add the unbeaten whites of the four 
eggs,aiid beat steadily till it begins to thicken. If it stiffens 
too lapidly set the basin in warm water, then pour into the 
mold and set on the ice. Oranges may be used in place 
of lemons; in that case use six instead of four. 

Strawberry Sponge.-— Soak half a package of gelatine 
in half a cupful of water one hour, and over one quart of 
strawberries strew half a dozen tablespoonfuls of sugar in 
order to extract the juice. At the end of an hour mash 
the berries and press through a fine sieve. There should be 
over one pint. Pour a cupful of boiling water ever the j,-3l- 



300 FRUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

atine, add half a cupful of sugar, stir and strain. Add the 
strawberry pulp, beat well, mix in the juice of a small lemon 
and the stiflE beaten whites of three eggs, and continue to 
beat till the mixture is quite thick. The eggs she uldnotbe 
added till the gelatine is cjol. Harden in molds. 

Raspberry Sponge. — Make like Blackberry sponge, 
using two cupf uls of juice and one cupful of boiling water. 



FRUIT CREAMS, FLOATS, BLANC-MANGE ANi> 
MERINGUES. 

Under this heading the housekeeper who is mistress of 
her time can devise and arrange a numberless variety of 
dehcious and comparatively inexpensive dishes. They are 
certainly far more digestible than so many rich dainties, 
■which demand much care and many ingredients in prepa- 
ration. In thorn the flavor of the fruit is perfectly pre sej- ved, 
since they are not changed by heat. They aie extremely 
suitable for lunches and light repasts in warm weather. 
Canned fruits and jellies may be substituted for the fresh 
when the soasou for the latter has passed, but the flavoring 
is somewhat impaired by the fire-change. 

With fruit creams is used isinglass or gelatine, which 
should always be dissolved in half a cup of cold water to 
the ounce. Cooper's gelatine is good enough for this pur- 
pose. Into it is stirred the fruit or its juices, weU sweet- 
ened, whipped cream, and sometimes the whipped whites 
of eggs. In making fancy dishes the housekeeper can 
poiir into the mold first a layer of gelatine, then arrange 
a layer of fruit, and so on till the mold is filled. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 201 

Apple Snow.— Drain a oupful of apple-sauce heaped 
high, and press through a sieve. Sweeten to taste, and set 
it on the ice. Turn it into a shallow dish, and over it turn 
the whites of two eggs. With an egg-beater or silver fork 
beat them together for twenty minutes, or till the mass is 
light and snow-like. 

Apple Meringue, Ifo. 1.— Prepare applesauce out of 
tart j uioy apples, season, strain, and pour into a deep pie- 
dish lined with paste. Whip to a stiff froth the whites of 
two eggs with two tablespoonfuls of sugar, spread over the 
top and return to the oven three minutes to brown. 

Apple Meringue, No. 2.— Make a syrup out of twice as 
much sugar p.s water, by measure, into which, when boil- 
ing, drop quarters of peeled sour apples. Use only enough 
at a time to let the syrup well cover them. When tender 
skim them out and drop in more apples, taking care to 
preserve them unbroken. Then arrange the quarters in 
a dish of crockery and pour over them a meringue flavored 
with rose or almond, as in No. 1., and set in the oven a few 
moments to brown. 

Apple Cliarlotte, No. 1.— (Mrs. Parker.) Grate ten 
sour apples and mix with two cupfuls of sugar. Idne a 
large dish with slices of sponge cake, turn in the apple, 
make a hole in the middle and fill with currant jelly. Put 
in a mold and set on the ice for two hours. Turn out in 
a dish and cover the top with sponge cake. 

Apple Charlotte, No. 2.— Pare, core and stew in a 
very little water six or eight apples, according to size, press 
through a coarse sieve and add sugar enough to make it 
very sweet. While the apple is hot, mix in an ounce of 
gelatine which has soaked in six tiblespoonfiils of waver, 
and stir thoroughly. Set the dish in another containing 
cold water, and stir till Ihe mixiure thickens, then out into 
it a large cupful of cream whipped stiff. Turn into a 
mold and chill on ice. 



Sua FRUITS AND HOW TO ITSE THEM. 

Apple Float. — Grate ten sour apples and chiil on ice, 
after sweetening and flavorlnEr with lemon. Then heat to 
a froth the whites of four eggs, mix with the grated apples, 
and serve at once. 

Apricot Cream or SouSfts, No. 1.— Take a tin of pre- 
served a^jrieots, boil tUem in their own juice with a little 
sugar till reduced to a pulp, then pass through a hair sieve. 
Mix a little rice flour with a gill of milk, stir it over the flre 
till it thickens, add, off the flre, the yolks of four e=fgs, and 
as much apricot pulp as will make the mixture of the prop- 
er consistency; work it well so a,s to get it quite smooth, 
then add the whites of six eggs beaten up to a stiff froth; 
mix them in quickly with the rest, pour into a plain mold, 
and put it into the oven at once. When the souffle is well 
risen sei've without delay. 

Apricot Cream, No. 2.— Take a can of apricots, and 
put into a saucepan with two ounces of sugar; let it boil for 
a quarter of an hour, and strain through a colander. Dis- 
solve an ounce of gelatine in a little milk, and whip a pint 
of cream. Mix the gelatine with the apricot pulp, and 
work into the cream. Mold and put on ice. Serve cold. 

Apricot Bavarian Cream.— Stew a pint of fresh apri- 
cots or use a pint can of the same fruit, cut in pieces, and 
inash through a colander. Dissolve an ounce of gelatine 
in a cup of cold w_ter, which must bo gradually heated till 
it is all dissolved. Then proceed as in appie charlotte, mix 
the gelatine and fruit, set the dish in another containing 
cold water or ice, and stir till the mixture thickens a little, 
then mix into it a pint of cream whipped to a froth. Pour 
into a mold and set on ice. If the apricots need more 
sugar sweeten to taste. In the same way make the fol- 
lowing recipe : 

Bavarian Fruit Cream.— Soak one quarter of a box 
of gelatine in four tablespuonfuls of cjld waier for half an 
hour, and whip one pint of very cold cream till it makes a 
quart and a half, or even more. B jil three tablespoonf uls 



MiSCELLAlteOUiS. SOS 

of sugar in one cup of rick milk, pour in the gelatine and 
stir till dissolved. Strain, and flavor as likexi, either with 
lemon, vanilla, chocolate or four tablespoonfuls of strong 
coffee. Place the bowl in very cold water, stir often, an.l 
when it is cold, and beginning to thicken, stir in the whipped 
cream. 

To convert this cream into apricot, peach, cherry, orange 
or strawberry charlotte it is only necessary to line the 
bottom of the mold with th2 preserved or candied fruitand 
flU it with cream. Sliced bananas and fresh strawberries 
may be used in the eame manner. 

Blackberry Cream.— Over two quarts of ripe blackber- 
ries spririKle halt a cupful of sugar a)id mash them with a 
wooden spoon. Set them aside for a oou{>le of hours, then 
strain through a very thin cloth or strainer. Partly whip 
one pint of sweet cream, then add the fruit juice, madesweet 
with half a cupful of sugar or even morr-. Whip again, and 
gradually add the stiff- beaten whites of cwo eggs, whipping 
constantly till no more cream arises. Serve' at once. 

Cherry Cream. — Take two quarts of cherries— heaping 
quarts— bruise them without removing the pits, throw 
over them three-fourths of a cupful of sugar, and let them 
stand in a cool place two hours. Then strain, and proceed 
as with Blackberry cream That is, sweeten the j uiee after 
straining, beat one pint of cream, gradually add the juice 
and the beaten whites of two eggs, continually whisking it 
till no more froth arises. The secret of success is to have 
cream, ice and eggs all thoroughly chilled on ice, and in 
adding the juice a little at a time to prevent curdling. 

In the same way make currant cream. The berries and 
other fruits which have suflQoient juice can be used, also lem- 
on and orange cream. 

Chocolate Bavarian Crearai. — Soak half a box of gel- 
atine in four tablespoonfuls of water for twenty minutes, 
boil one pint of milk, into which stir two ounces of grated 
chocolate and the dissolved gelatine. Stir till all is dis- 
solved set the sauci-pan on the back of the stove with 



'ZCi PKUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

enough sugar to sweeten well, and add one teaspoon- 
fui of vanilla. Stir while cooling, and as it grows thick 
mix with it two cupfuls of cream whipped to a froth. Turn 
into a mold to harden. 

Chocolate Creani. — One square of Baker's chocolate, 
scraped very fln«, one teacupf ul of sugar, yolks of two eggs, 
one-half teacupful o" sweet milk. Cook over steam until 
thick, then fill the shells, using spoonful of mixture for each 
tart. Frost top with following : 

Meringue.— Beat whites of i wo eggs to a stiff froth, add 
two tablespoonf ulf grated chocolate, six tablespoonfuls sug- 
ar, one-half teaspoonful lemon extract. Spread frosting 
evenly over tarts. Place in oven to harden. Serve cold. 

Cocoanut Cream. — Add one cupful ot water to one 
grated cocoanut, and press through a moderately fine 
strainer. Boil together )i cupful of water and twice as 
much sugar twenty minutes, then add the cocoanut to an 
equal quantity of this syrup. When it is a little cool, stir 
it sJowly into the well-beaten whites of six eggs, and contin- 
ue stirring over the fire till it is thick like custard. Pine- 
apple grated may be prepared in the same manner. 

Cocoanut Snow.— Q-rate a cocoanut and sprinkle pul- 
verized sugar lightly thi-ough it. Beat the whites of eight 
eggs to a stiff froth, add to them four large spoonfuls of 
fine sugar, beat well, and flavor with rose-water. Take half 
tne cocoanut and stir into it one pint of thick, rich cream. 
Lay the remainder of the cocoanut lightly over this, and 
put the eggs and sugar over the top. Decorate the dish 
with bright-colored jelly. 

FruitTrifle.— Soak an ounce of isinglass in half a cup 
of water fifteen minutes, add the juice of a lemon and the 
grated penl of half, and a teacupful of sugar. Over this 
pour two and a half cupfiils of boiling water, and strain. 
When it is cool, but before it has thickened, pour it over a 
mold lined with oranges divided into sections and thin slices 
of bananas f^-eshly pealed. Set on the ice. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 203 

Fruit Cliarlotte.— (Mrs. Lincoln.) Soak half a box of 
fcelatine in half a cup of cold water till soft, and make a 
syrup of one cup of water and a cup of lemon juice (or a 
pint of orange juice and one cup water), with one cup of 
sugar. When boiling pour it into the beaten yolks of four 
eggs. Stir well, and cook in a double boiler till it thickens. 
Add the soaked gelatine, stir till dissolved, and strain at 
once intp a granite pan placed in ice- water. Beat occa- 
sionally till cold and not hard. Beat the whites of the eggs 
to a stiff froth, and then beat all together till it thickens. 
When almost stiff enough to drop, pour into molds lined 
with cake. Keep on ice, and serve with or without pow- 
dered sugar and cream. Vary the fruit by stirring one 
pint of canned peaches, pine-apple or apricots in one tap 
each of sugar and water till soft, then sift, add the yQlks of 
eggs, and cook till it thickens. Add the gelatine, strain, 
and when cool add the whites. Grated pine-apple will not 
require sifting. 

liCinon Cream, No. 1;— Chill on the ice three cupfuls 
of cream about a day old, and sweeten to taste. Beat it to 
a froth and stir in the juice of four lemons and a table- 
spoonful of gelatine, softened in cold water, and then dis- 
solved in a little hot water. It should be cold before 
stirring into the cream. Poi^r into an oiled mold without 
or with a thin lining of jiain cake. Let it stand several 
hours before serving. 

Lemon Cream, To. 2.— Take the juice and grated 
rind of one lai-ge lemon, beat into it half a pinh of sugar, 
the same quantity of cream, and half a cupful of cold water, 
and lastly th'^ ^rell-beaten whites of three eggs. Heat half 
a cupful of milk and thicken it with two tablespoonfuls of 
corn-starch, made smooth, and stir that in also. Turn it in. 
to a mold and set on ice. Serve with or without whipped 
cream. 

Liemon Meringue.— Beat lightly the yolks of foui- eggs, 
add one cupful of sugar, three fourths as much water, wiih 
a part of which make smooth one tablespcouful of flour, 



303 FKTJITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

and the juice of a large lemon; with two-thirds of its grated 
yellow rind. Bake in a pie-dlph lined with pastry, and 
when done cover with a meringue of the whites and three 
tablespoonfuls of sugar. Brown a few moments in the 
oven. 

Liemon Float, — Dissolve a \ ackage of gelatine in a!!ittle 
cold water, then pour over enough water to make a quart in 
all. Sweeten with a pint of sugar, and add the juitse of four 
or five lemons, according to their size. Strain, and stir in 
the beaten whites of ten eggs. It ought to be cold and 
should be served immediately. 

Orange Snow. — Dissolve an ounce of isinglass in a pint 
of boiling water, strain it, and let it stand till nearly cold' 
Mix with it the juice of six or seven oranges and one lemon. 
Add the whites of three eggp, and sugar to taste. Whisk the 
whole together until it looks white and like a sponge. Put 
it into a mold and turn it out on the following day. 

Oranges Jellied..— Peel a dozen medium-sized oranges, 
cut them up very small, rejecting all seeds. Put them in a 
dish larger than they will 31i, sweeten very liberally. Take 
one-lialf box of Cooper's gelatine, dissolved in a little cold 
water, then pour on it one cap of boiling water, stir well, 
and add to it the oranges, mixhig very thoroughly. Set 
away in a cold place or on ice. 

Orange Cliarlotte.— (Mrs. Lincoln.) One-third box of 
gelatine, one-third cupful of cold water, one-third cupful 
of boiling water, one cupful of sugar, juice of one lemon, 
one cupful of orange juice and pulp, three eggs, whites 
only. 

Line a mold or bowl with lady's-fingers or sections of 
orangesi Soak the gelatine in cold water till soft. Pour on 
the boiling water. Add tht- sugar and the lemon juice. 
Strain, and add the orange juice and pulp, with a little of 
the grat( d rind. Cool in a pan of ice-water. Beat the 
whites of the eggs stiff, and when the orange jelly begins to 
harden, beat it till hght. Add the beaten whites, and beat 
together till stiff enough to drop. Pour into the mold. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 207 

One pint of whipped cream may be used insLcad of the 
whites of the eggs, or it may be piled on the top after the 
Charlotte is removed from the mold. 

Orange Meringue.— Beat till light the yolks of three 
eggs, and then beat in a scant cupful of sugar. Stir in the 
juice of two oranges and the grated peel of one-half of one, 
and a cupful of milk. Bake either in a small pudding-dish 
or a deep pie dish lined with pafete. When done make a 
meringue of the three whites with as many table&poontuls 
of sugar, return to the oven long enough to brown, and 
serve warm or cold. 

Orange Charlotte.— Soak one-third of a package of 
gelatine in one-third of a cupful of water till it is sol't, then 
pour on one-half of a cupful of boiling water, andstir till the 
gelatine is dissolved, adding to it one cupful of sugar and 
the juice of one lemon, to increase the flavor, and the juice 
of enough oranges to make an additional cupful of pulp and 
liquid. Strain, and while the jelly is cooling beat to a 
stiff froth the whites of three eggs, then beat the jelly till 
That is also light. Lightly stir together the jelly and whites 
of eggs, and pour into a mold lined with stale sponge cake. 
In place of the whites of eggs use one pint ot whipped 
cream, if desired. It is good without the sponge cake or 
with auy other kind ofplam cake. 

Orange Float.— Blend smoothly four tablespoonfuls 
of corn-search with the same quantity of water, and over 
it pour a quart of boiling water. Stir into it a heaping 
cupful of sugar, and the juice of one lemon. When it thick- 
ens on the stove take it off, and as it cools pour it over six 
sliced oranges divested of their seeds, or two oranges and two 
sliced bananas. Stir and serve. 

Orange Cream.— Squeeze the juice and pulp of three 
oranges into a bowl. Add the juice of half a lemon, three 
ounces of sugar, one and a half pints of cold water; let it 
come to a boil, and then strain. Dissolve two tp.blespoon- 
f uls of corn-starch in a little cold water, rub it smooth and 



208 FRUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

add to it the strained juices; let it boil fifteen minutes to 
cook fhe corn-starch. Then set it aside in The ice box to 
become quite cold. Beat up the whites of three eggs to a 
foam, whip it into the corn-starch, and it is ready lor use. 
It may be served in tart shells or fancy cases. 

Peach Bavarian Cream.— (A. T). A.) Soak one 
package of Cox's gelatine in one cupful of cold milk taken 
out of two quarts, and put on the remainder in a farina 
kettle. When it nears the boiling point put in the gelatine, 
and when dissolved add one small cupful of sugar, and 
strain the beaten yolks of lour eggs with a little of the hot 
milk which has been dipped out and will prevent curdling. 
Cook five minutes, and pour into molds to form. When it 
has thickened to the consistency of custard, slice some 
peaches, take out some of the mixture, and place alternate 
layers until the mold is full. When the gelatine has con- 
gealed the fruit will be as richly colored as when sliced. 
Beat up the .vhites of the four eggs to a stiff fi-oth with four 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, and when the mold is turned out 
pile the meringue around the base in large spoonfuls. 

Peacli Mering'ue.— As usual in creams dissolve half an 
ounce of gelatine in half a cup of water, then beat it into a 
pint and a half of sweet cream, and as it stiffens stir in the 
beaten whites of four eggs, with as many tablespoonfuls of 
sugar. On the bottom of a large dish arrange a quart of 
sliced peaches dredged with sugar, and over it pour the 
cream. Serve immediately. 

Peacli Charlotte.— (Mrs. Lincoln.) Line a mold or 
bowl with lady's-fingers or sections of oranges. Soak one 
third of a box of gelatine in one third of a cup of cold water 
till soft. Pour on it a third of a cup of boiling water, add 
onecupfulof sugar, and the juice of one lemon. Strain, and 
add one cupful of stewed or canned peach, pine-apple or 
apricot, pressed through a colander or coarse sieve, and cool 
in a pan of ice-water. Beat stiff the whites of three eggs, 
and when the jelly begins to harden beat it till light. Add 
the beaten whites, and beat together till stiff enough to 



MISCELLANEOCiJ. 209 

drop. Pour into the mold and set on ice. In the same 
way make apple charlotte. In place of the peaches use 
one cup of cooked sour apples, steamed, drained and sifted, 
or canned apricot or pine-apple, or one pint of fresh rasp- 
berries or strawberries. Mash the fruit and rub through a 
sieve before using. 

Pine-apple Blanc-Mange.- (The Home-Maker.) 
Heat three cups fresh milk to boiling, stir in a pinch of 
soda when heated, add m one cupful of sugar and half a 
box of Cooper's gelatine, soaked in half a cup of cold vvater. 
Strain, pour into a mold, and when perfectly cold and 
beginning to form, add one small up pine-apple either 
frosh or canned, chopped fine. By wai ting thus long there 
is less danger of the fruit curdling the milk. 

Pine-apple Bavarian Cream.— (Helen Campbell.) 
Whip one pint of cream to a stiff froth and lay it on asieve. 
Boil one pint of milk, with half a cup of sugar and half a 
teaspoonful of vanilla, and add to it half a package of 
gelatine soaked half an hour in half a cup of warm, water. 
Stir in the beaten yolks of three eggs, and let it cool. Add 
then one cup of pine-apple marmalade, stir till very smooth, 
then add the whipped cream, mixing all well. Put in 
molds and set in ice. This is one of the most perfect forms 
of these delicious creams. 

Raspberry Float.— Beat the whites of four eggs to a 
stiff froth, adding gradually six tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Mash a quart of red raspberries with half a cup of sugar, let 
them stand while beating the eggs, then press through a 
strainer and beat the juice, little by little, into the egg. 
Serve in small glass dishes. Strawberry float can be made 
in the same manner. 

Raspberry Cream, No. l.—Putsix ounces of raspberry 
jam to a quart of cream, pulp it through a lawn sieve, add 
to it the juice of a lemon and a little sugar, and whisk it till 
thick. Serve i-t in a dish or glasses. 

Raspberry Cream, ]!fo. a, —Take the desired quantity of 



2iO FEUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

fully-ripe raspberries; bruise them, and sprinkle with a 
little pulverized sugar, let them remain for half an hour, 
then rub through a hair sieve. Measure the pulp, and mix 
an equal. quantity of rich cream and sugar to make it 
sufficiently sweet. Whip it up well, and as the froth forms 
place it on an inverted sieve to drain. When no more 
froth can be obtained, place three or four each of maca- 
roons ahd lady 's-flngars in a glass dish, spread a little rasp - 
berry or currant jam over them, pour the remainder of the 
cream over all, and just before serving pile the froth cream 
on top of all. 

Raspberry Blanc-Mange.— Strain the juice of fresh 
stewed raspberries and sweeten to taste. Heat in a porce- 
lain saucepan, and when it boils stir in corn-starch, in the 
proportion of two heaping tablespoonf uls to one pint of 
juice: stir till cooked and pour into a wet mold. Serve 
with sugar and cream. In a similar manner make cherry 
or strawberry blanc-mange. The flavor will be sufficiently 
strong if the juice is diluted with one third its measure of 
water. 

Raspberry Bavarian Cream.— Soak half a bos of 
gelatine half an hour, and gradually beat it till all is 
dissolved. Turn into it two cupfuls of raspberry juice and 
six tablespoonfuls of sugar, or enough to sweeten it well. 
Set it in a cool place and stir as it thickens; mix in two 
cups of sweet cream, whipped to a cream, and turn in a 
mold to harden. 

Strawberry Cream.— Take a pint of capped straw- 
berries and sugar them well. Set aside for an hour to 
allow the juice to escape, then crush them, and press 
through a fine sieve. Soak half an ounce of gelatine in a 
very little cold water; when soft add three tablespoonfuls 
of sugar and the juice of one lemon. Heat to. the boiling 
point, then strain into the strawberry juice. Beat all to- 
gether well, and into it, when cooled, stir lightly 
half a pint of cream beaten to a foam. Turn into a mold 
and chill on ice. Serve with or without cream, 



MISCELLANEOUS. »!: 

Strawberry Bavarian Cream.— Soak an ounce of 
gelatine in six tablespoonfuls of oolil water for twenty 
minutes, while one quart of strawberries is maslied with 
one cup of sugar. Press the fruit through a fine sieve, grad- 
ually heat the gelatine, adding, if necessary, a very little 
hot water, and strainitintotheberryjuice. Set it in cold 
water or ice, and stir till it thickens, then add a pint of 
cream well whipped. Pour into a mold and chill on iae. 

Strawberry Float — Chop fine three pints of straw- 
berries and stir in three-fourths of a cupful of powdered 
sugar, more or less according to their acidity. Attheendof 
an hour mix in the beaten whites of three eggs, and serve at 
once in small glasses. 

Strawberry Charlotte.— Boil half a cupful of rice five 
minutes in a quart of water, strain, and boil till done iii a 
quart of milk. Rub the rice through a sieve. To one 
pint of it add an ounce of gelatine, dissolved in two table- 
spoonfuls of water and the milk remaining after it is 
drained from the rice. Cook together three minutes, stir, 
cool, flavor with half a teaspoonful of vanilla, and stir in 
the well- beaten whites of two eggs. Pour it over a quart of 
capped strawberries, or any other kind of berries, and pile 
whipped cream around the whole. 

Strawberi'y Charlotte Kusse.— Dissolve an ounce of 
isinglass in a few tablespoonfuls of milk, taken from a 
quart of rich new milk measured out for this purpose. 
Sweeten to taste, after heating the remainder of the milk 
and pouring over the gelatine. Flavor with vanilla, strain, 
and pour into molds to cool. Turn it out on a thin sponge 
cake covf red with a thijk layer of strawberry jam, and 
pour around it a pint of whipped cream. 



31^ FKUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 



FEUIT ICE-GREAM. 

With the aid of late improvements in freezers, ice-cream 
can be readily made in every household. In fact cream 
may be frozen in a deep can or cylinder some four or five 
inches iu diameter, by the aid of a tight-fitting cover, a 
long Wooden epatula, plenty of ice and salt, and a box or firkin 
suf&dent to pack them in. If the can is well-packed with 
rock-salt and ice, and the cream thoroughly beaten and 
scraped frcm the sides and bottom every few min'ites, it 
will not take a great amount of strength to provide this 
delicious dessert. 

It is necessary to have the ice crushed fine and to be 
mixed with one quarter its amount of rock-salt in order to 
get quick results. There should be alternate layers of ice 
and salt packed closely around the freezer tUl it is filled. 
Then tarn into it the milk, custard, or cream, turn or beat 
slowly at first, afterward more rapidly, and at the end of 
half an hour the cream ought to be sufficiently fine and 
solid. If desired, pack it in molds, which must be covered 
and buried in salt and ice. Too much care can not be 
taken to prevent as much as a drop of salt water from en- 
tering mold or freezer. The cream ought to be very 
cold before the freezing proi:ess. If the cream is to be 
kept some time in the can, cover it with bagging or old 
woolen cloths wet in salt water. 

In freezing fruit creams, ric^i Alderney milk is good 
enough for use with the addition of a trifle of cream. 
When that can be had it is far better than any custard 



MISOELLANEOtfS. 213 

The unbeaten whites of three or four eggs dropped into 
new milk Jjefore it is put into the freezer is an excellent 
substitute for cream where custard is disliked. Whatever 
may be used it is needful to make the custard or cream 
very sweet. Freezing deadens the sweetness and makes 
a great demand upon saccharine material. 

It is best to add fruit or flavoring to cream after it is 
partly frozen, and to scald the cream gives it a peculiarly 
velvety taste, as every connoisseur is aware. While these 
two points are not reiterated in any one of the following 
recipes, they should not, therefore, be omitted, except in 
pine-apple and berry creams, unless time is wanting. 

Either of the following recipes can be used as the foun- 
dation of all fruit creams. 

Ice- Cream, Ko. 1.— (Phila. Ice-Cream.) Spald two 
quarts of cream, or-half cream and half new milk, and in it 
dissolve one pint of sugar. When partly frozen beat in the 
chopped fruit, pulp or juice, and continue the freezing. 

Ice-Cream, No. 2.— (Miss Parloa.) Boil one pint of milk. 
Mix together one cup of sugar, two tatalespoonfuls of flour, 
one saltspoon of salt, and beat in two whole eggs. Add the 
boiling milk, and. wlien well mixed turn into a double-boil- 
er and cook twenty minutes, stirring constantly till smooth, 
after that, occasionally, It ought to cook about twenty 
minutes. 

- With these two recipes, and even with only very rich 
milk and the whites of eggs as stated before, a large vari- 
ety of fruit creams may be prepared. 

Apple Ice-Cream.— Steam or bake large sweet apples, 
and press through a coarse sieve. Stir two cups of the pulp 
into one and one-half quarts of cream or custard as described 
above, and freeze. 

Apricot Cream.— To partly frozen cream add the mashed 



S14 PEUITS AND HOvV TO TTSE THEM. 

pulp of a pint can of apricots, or twice as mucli fresh fruiti 
which becomes reduced in quantity by peeling and mash- 
ing. 

Banana Cream, No. 1.— Peel and mash half a dozen 
large, ripe bananas, making them perfectly uniform and 
smooth. Beat them into a quart and a half of cream, cus- 
tard, or Alderney new milk, and freeze. 

Sanana Cream, No, 2.— One pint of sugar, one pint of 
water; boil twenty minutes. Ten grated bananas; to the 
bananas add the yolks of five eggs, w ell 1 eaten. Stir this 
into the boiling syrup, and boil six minutes. Remove from 
the fire. Stir in one quart of cream. When C3ol, freeze. 

Banana Cream, No. 3.— Into half a gaUon of rich, 
sweetened Alderney milk or cream stir four sliced bananas, 
and freeze. 

Cocoanut Cream. —Use one grated cocoanut to every 
quart of prepared milk or cream, also the unbeaten yolks 
of vwo eggs. Flavor with orange, and freeze. 

Liemon Ice-cream, No. 1.— (Mrs. Parker.) Mix three 
tablespoonfuls of corn-starch with two of unsalted butter, 
and dissolve! in half a gallon of newmilk; add two well -beat- 
en eggs, tweeten, flavor witli lemon extract, and freeze. 

Liemon Ice-Cream, No. 2.- (Ruth Hall.) Heat a 
quart of milk in a kettle of iiot water; when it boils stir in 
three-fourths of a pound of sugar beaten with the yolks of 
four ejigs. Cook till it resembles a thin cream, stir in care- 
fully one tablespoonful of extract of lemon, and the same 
quantity of dissolved gelatine, and freeze. 

Liemon Ice-Cream, No. 3.— (Mrs. Rorer.) Mix togeth- 
er nine ounces of sugar, the juieeof two lemons, oneoi-ange 
and the grated rind of three lemryns, and stand in a cold 
place one hour. Put one quart of cream in a farina boil- 
er, and when scalding hot stand aside to cool. When cold 
freeze. 



MlSOELLANteOUS. 213 

Quince Ice-Cream.— Into a quart of milk, or cream, 
prepared as before directed, stir a cupful of sweetened 
quince juice, and freeze. 

Raspberry Ice-Cream.— Coveraquart of berries with a 
cup of sugar and let tiiem stand an hour. Tlieu pour over 
them three pints of rich milk or cream, and stir them to- 
gethei-. At the end of another hour strain, add more sugar, 
and freeze. 

Orange Ice-Cream.— Allow the juice of four or five 
oranges, according to size, to everj' quart of cream, or cream 
and milk, half and half. Allow a cup and a half of sugar, 
upon which grate the peel of one lemon. Scpld the cream, 
and when cool add the orange juice and sugar, and freeze. 

Peach Cream. — Make precisely like apricot cream. 
Peaches may also be pared and mashed to a pulp before 
being added to the partly frozen cream. To one quart of 
very sweet peaches add one quart sweet cream. 

Pine-apple Cream. — Chop fine one pine-apple and 
sprinkle over the pieces a little less than one pound of sug^ 
ar. At the end of two hours beat it into one quart of cream 
and freeze rapidly as possible. 

Strawberry Ice-Cream.— This cream is made like the 
raspberry cream. No recipe rule can be given concerning 
the amount of sugar, as berries vary greatly in regard to 
sweetness, but it needs to be very sweet. Do not heat the 
cream. 

Sti-awberry Cream, No. 1.— (Mrs. Rorer.) Put half 
a pound of sugar and a pint of cream on to boil in a fa- 
rina kettle; when the sugar is dissolved, stand aside to cool. 
Add another half pound of sugar to a quart of strawberries, 
with the juice of one lemon. Mash, stand aside one hour, 
then strain through fine muslin. Add another pint of 
cream co the sweetened cream and freeze. "When half froz- 
en stir in the fruit juice, beat thoroughly, and freeze. If 
canned fruit is used, less sugar will be required. 



216 PKUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

Strawberry Cream, No. 2. Mash together one quart 
of berries and one pound of sugar. At the end of two 
hours rub through a coarse sieve and add one quart of 
crfani. 

Tutti Frutti, No. 1.— Cliop flne two ounces of blanch- 
ed raisins and mix with one quart of cream and one pint of 
sugar. When partly frozen throw in two-thirds of a cupful 
each of finely chopped raisins, citron and orange preserves. 
Stir thoroughly, and finish freezing. 

Tutti Frutti, No. 2.— Make a Neapolitan cream by 
heating the yolks of six eggs, then beating in a scant pint 
of sugar, and lastly the whites whisked to a stiff froth. Boil 
a quart of cream in a double boiler and gradually stir in the 
eggs and sugar. Stir till the custard begins to thicken. 
Strain it through a sieve and let it cool. When partly froz- 
en add a pound of finely chopped candied fruits, including 
cherries, pine-apples, angelica root, stra-wberries, apricots 
or plums. Let the cream stand a couple of hours after it is 
trozen, in order to let the flavors perfectly blend. In place 
of the French fruit, if preferred, use home-made preserves, 
chopped raisins, currants and citron, or grated oocoanut, in 
the proportion of a quart of the prepared fruit to the 
same quantity of milk or cream before it is ready for freez- 
ing. 



FRXHT WATER-ICES AND SHERBETS. 

Cooling mixtures flavored with fruits and destitute of 
cream are more v^holesome than the richer preparations 
■which have been described. They seem to bring vs'ith 
them a breath from the Orient, mingled with dreams of 
the shaded courts and pleached alleys, the rose-leaf con- 
serves and tinkling fountains of that Eastern country in 
which the sherbet originated. 



MISCELLANEOUS. SW 

Water-ices are made out of fruit juice, syrup or jelly, 
the former giving the most satisfactory results. The 
•water and sugar aie to be measured, boiled and sidmmed 
before adf^ing the juice of the fruit, for boiling dissipates 
much of that ethereal flavor which cannot be restored. 
Water-ices of all kinds require more time for freezing than 
creams, and the process must be carried on more slowly. 
They are molded and packed in the same manner. 

Apple Sherbet.— To two quarts of sweet new cider add 
the juice of two lemons and a cup of sugar. Freeze with- 
out heating. 

Citron Ice. — Stir one quarter of a pound of thinly- 
sliced citron, cut into dice, into a quart of rich lemonade, 
and freeze. 

Cherry Water-Ice.— Mash two quarts of common cher- 
ries, and break some of the pits, which must be chopped and 
added to the pulp; twenty will be enough to give sufficient 
flavor. Let them macerate an hour or two, then press 
through a jelly-bag. Boil a pint and a half of sugar and 
the same quantity of water, and when the syrup cools add 
the cherry juice and freeze. 

Currant Ice. — Boil a quart of water and a pound 
of sugar to a syrup. Bkini, and stir in two oupfuls of cur- 
rant jelly or a pint of fresh currant juice, and two more cups 
of sugar heated together till the sugar has dissolved. 
Freeze a quarter of an hour, then stir in the unbeaten 
whites of four eggs. 

Orange "Water-Ice- Soak a tablespoouful of gelatine 
in half a cupful of cold water twenty minutes, then pour 
over it a cupful of boiling water and stir till dissolved. 
Mix with it half a cupful of powdered sugar, the strained 
juice of six oranges, and enough water to make a quart of 
liquid; strain through a jelly-bag and freeze. 

Liemon Ice. — Dissolve one tablespoouful of gelatine 



318 PEmtS AHD HOW TO tJSE THEM. 

in a little water takea out of a lueasared quart of 
water, boil the remainder with a pound of sugar and stir in 
the gelatine. When cold add the juice of two oranges and 
five lemons, and freezn. A lirtle of the peeling should lie 
grated in with the lemon-juice. 

Orange Sherbet, No. 1.— To every quart of water use 
tlie juice of six oranges, two small lemons, the whites of 
two eggs, and one large tear-upful of sugar. The latter, 
however, must be proportioned to the size of fruit ana the 
amount, and car. only be told by tasting. Make a syrup of 
sus'ar and water, add the grated rind of an orange and a 
lemon, boil up, and set away to cool. - With this mix the 
juice pressed from the lemons and oranges, and freeze. 

Orange Sherbet, No. 2.— To every quart of water add 
the juice of four oranges and the juice of two lemons; when 
nearly frozen stir in the beaten whites of three eggs. 

Orange Ice.— Grate the rinds of four oranges, and steep 
them ten minutes in a pint of water. Strain it upon one 
pound of sugar, add a pint of orange juice, and, when 
cold, pour into the freezer. When half frozen, add the 
whites of four eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. 

Pine-Apple Sherbet.— To one pintof nice finely grated 
pulp allow the same quantity of sugar, and a pint and a 
half of water. Make a syrup of the latter, cool, add the 
pulp, the juice of one lemon, and, when half frozen, the 
beaten whites of two eggs. 

Raspberry Ice. — With one quart of red raspberries 
stir a pintof sugar and the juice of two lemons. Strain 
through a fine sieve, add a quart of water, the whites of 
three eggs, and freeze. 

Strawberry Ice.— To on« quart of fruit after it has been 
pressed thr-ough the colander add three-fourths of a pound 
of sugar, or mor-j if the berries are not very sweet, and the 
unbeaten whites of three eggs and one cupful of water. 
Freeze. This is a very delicious ice. 



MlSCfiLLANEC'S. m 

Strawbeirj Sherbet.— One quart of sti'awberries, three 
pints of water, one lemon— the juice only, one tablespoonf al 
orange-flower water, three-quarters of a pound white sufjar. 
The strawberries should be fresh and ripe. Crush to a 
smooth paste, add the rest of the Ingredients (except sugar) 
and let it stand three hours. Strain it over the the sugar, 
t>queezing the cloth hard; stir until the sugar is dissolved, 
strain again, and set in ice for two hours or more before 
useing it. 



FRUIT AND TAPIOCA. 

All varieties of fruit are appetizing, wholesome, easily 
prepared and not over rich when combined with tapiocii. . 
It is not necessary to give special directions for each kind 
of fruit tapioca, since the same method is applicable to 
all, except that such large fruits as apples and peaches 
need longer cooking than berries. 

Apple Tapioca. — Wash one half pint of tapioca and 
soak it one hour in two cupfuls of cold water. Boil it 
in a quart of cold water in a farina kettle until it looks 
clear. Then slice tart apples enougii to cover the bottom 
of a pudding-dish an inch and a half thick, sprinkle with 
sugar, and poui- over the cooked tapioca. Bake half an hour 
and serve either warm or cold with cream and sugar oi soft 
custard. 

i^gain, take large sour apples, pare and core and stew till 
they begin to be tender, either with a very little water, well 
covered on the back of the stove or in a steamer. Pill the 
core apertures while still hot with sugar, arrange, standing 
on the bottom of a pudding-dish, and pour over them the 
cooked tapioca. Bake as before. 

Blackberry Tapioca. — Stew one full pint of black- 
berries in a Tery little water ten minutes, turn them into a 



220 FBUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

pudding-dish and pour over them the tapioca, as prepared 
above. Bake and serve with sweet liquid sauce. 

Cherry, raspberry, strawberry, peach, orange and i)lne- 
npple tapioca are made by stirring fresh or canned (ruit in- 
to the boiling tapioca when it has slowly cooked till it be- 
comes clear. It is prepared like apple tapioca though to a 
cup of tapioca there need be only two and a half cups of 
water. The fruit juice furnishes so much li'^uid that it 
may be cooked d7ier than when it is baked with apples. 
After it has boiled till clear, turn into the boiling tapioca 
one quart of fresh berries or one pint of stewed fruit, in- 
cluding cherries, sweeten according to theij' acidity, turn 
into a serving-dish, and set away to cool. 



TEOZEN FRUIT. 

Frozen Fruit.— Take very sweet grated apples, pears, 
peaches or quinces and freeze like oieam. Canned fruit 
can be prepared in the same manner. All kinds of fruit 
can be chopped or mashed and frozen. The addition of 
gelatine and cream greatly improves them, but thf^y are 
toothsome without. 

Apricots Frozen.— Drain the juice from a quart can of 
apricots and mash them fine, after removing the stones. 
Into the syrup stir half a pint of sugar and one pint of wa- 
ter, boil it up and skim. To this add a heaping tabler.poon- 
ful of gelatine, dissolved in a little cold water, then the 
mashed pulp of the fruit. Freeze when thoroughly cold. 

Frozen Bananas.— lOut six large ripe red bananas 
crosswise, in very thin sliceb; add half a pound of powdered 
sugar to them, let them stand an hour, then add a quart of 
water and the grated peel of a lemon. When sugar is die- 
solved put the fruit in the freezer and freeze like ice- 
cream. The juice of one or two oranges is an addition. 

Frozen Cherries.— Sweeten one quart of pitted cherries 



MISCELLANEOUS. 331 

with the same measure of sugar and let tliem stan.l till the 
juiee is drawn out. Stir them till the sugar dissolves, then 
add one quart < f water and freeze. If canned cherries are 
used, take less sugar. 

Frozen Fruit Mixture.— Mash together equal quanti- 
ties of raspberries and strawberries, take as much currant 
juice and water, half and half, as there is, by measure, of 
berries, add the juice of one lemon to every quart of the 
mixture, stir in three-fourths of a pint of sugar to every 
quart when all is mixed, and let it stand, stirring often, till 
the sugar is dissolved. Freeze like cream. 

Frozen Oranges.— To the pulp of a dozen oranges add 
twice as much water and the juice of one large lemon. 
Sweeten to taste and freeze. 

Frozen Peaches. —Peel and slice peaches, discarding 
the pits, and mix with an equal quautiry of peach sherbet. 
Make very sweet and freeze. Tne flavor is increased by 
adding the water in which a dozen peach-pits, chopped fine, 
have bfeen boiled. 

Frozen Raspberries and Strawberries.- Mash the 

berries, and to every quart before in.ashing add one pint of 
sugar and the juice of one large lemon. Cover them, let 
them stand two hours, add one quart of water and freeze. 

Frozen Pine-apple.— Grate the pine-apple, adding an 
equal amount of water. Sweeten well and freeze. 

Iced Puddingy. - Boil one scant half-tablespoonful of 
arrowroot in one pint of new milk, and into it stir one and 
one-half quart of hot milk. Add three beaten eggs, three 
cups of sugar, and half a pound each of seeded raisins, cur- 
rant^s and citron chopped fine. Flavor with vanilla, and 
Ireeze hard. 

Frozen Fruit. — Line a deep mold with vanilla ice-cream 
and fill the center with fresh berries or chopped fruit of 
various kinds, and cover the whole with ice-cream. Pack 
ja a fi'eezer and get in (ce to chill, (yint freeze) the cream. 



223 FRUITS AND HO'.Y TO USE THEM. 

Frozen Pudding-.— (Mrs. Preston.) To three pints of 
new milk add three or four sticks of fresh cinnamon, two 
blades of mace, and one and one-fourth pounds of the best 
raisins, stemmed and stoned. Cover these tightly in a stew- 
pan and Jetthem simmer slowly for fifteen minutes. Mean- 
while beat very light the yolks of five eggs, addiiig slowly, 
when light, one-half pound of pulverized &ugar, malting it 
as light and creamy as possible. When ready, strain tlie 
spice and raisins from the milk, and save them to put in 
again later. Put it back to boil, stir in the eggs and sugar, 
beating until it simmers once. Then remove from the fire, 
and when cold, stir in one-fourtli pound of blanched al- 
monds that have been pounded in a mortar, with a little 
rose-water, then the raisins that have been boiled in the 
milk, one-half pound of the best citron, and a small quan- 
tity of preserved ginger, cut into very thin, small slices. 
Mix all well together, add a quart of rich cream, stir till 
nicely mixed, and freeze as ice-cream. 



PEUIT PICKLES. 

Pickles are an appetizing relish, though far from whole- 
some. If they must be used the best cider vinegar should 
be taken, and the scalding "should be in kettles of porce- 
lain or grauite-ware, never in tin or iron. Spices ought 
to be scantily used and so skillfully blended that no one 
kind overpowers the others. Pickles must be kept iu jars 
of glass or stone which have never held any kind of fat. 
They ought to be set in a cool, dark cellar. 

Apple Pickles, No. 1.— Make a syrup of three pounds 
of sugar to a pint of vinegar. When it comes to a boil 
drop in apples peeled, cored, and quartered. Cook till 
they are tender, then skim out and place in glass jars set 
in a pan of hot water. In the syrup, when first made, drop 



MISCELLANEOUS. S33 

a cotton bag filled with a teaspoonful each of cinnamon, 
Gloves and allspi( e. After the apples are taken out boil the 
syrup fifteen minutes longer; fill the jars and seal whil ■ hot. 
In the same manner piclile whole crab-apples, peaches and 
pears. If a sour pickle is desired, do not boil the viaegar, 
but when it is scalding hot, drop in the apples and keep 
them closely covered, just below the boiling point, till they 
are tender. This amount of syrup will pickle about seven 
pounds of fruit. 

Apple Pickles, No. 3.— Peel a pe'sk of smooth, sweet 
apples, leaving on the stems. Dissolve two pounds of best 
brown sugar in one quart of vinegar, and in it drop a bag 
containing two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon and half o, tea- 
spoonful of cloves. Before it boils turn out half the vinegar 
syrup, which should be kept closely covered with porcelain 
or granite from the first, and set aside in glass or stone. 
Into the remainder drop the whole apples, and simmer 
slowly till they are tender but unbroken. Skim them out 
of the syrup and put in small stone jars or two quart glass 
cans. Throw away the syrup in which the apple has been 
cooked, or keoj) it to stew fruit for immediate use, then beat 
the remainder to a point slightly below boiling and pour 
over the apples. If they are kept in stone, an inverted 
saucer should be placed over them to keep them covered 
with the syrup. If sealed in glass, they will keep like any 
other fruit, otherwise see that they are in a cool, dark place. 
Large sweet apples may be quartered and prepared in the 
same manner. 

Blackberry Pickles. — Make a syrup as for Apples 
No. 1 and boil the berries till they are tender. Sealinjars. 
They need no spices. 

Clierry Pickles.— Take large cherries before they are 
ripe enough to be soft, and put them, stems on, into jars of 
stone or glass. Heat the jars in hot water, aud pour over 
them a syrup made with a pint of vinegar to every three 
pouftds of sugar. Tie in a bag a teaspoonful each of cinna- 



2SH FRUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

raon, allspice and cloves. Drain off the liquid and heat to 
boil every morning for a week. Pour it, while hot, over 
the cherries, which muot be kept in a cool, dark cellar, or 
sealed in cans. Blackberries may be pickled in the same 
manner. One pound of sujyar ought to cover nearly a gal- 
lon of fruit. For a sourer pickle use half as much sugar. 

Crab-apple Pickles are made like apple pickles. 

Cranberry Pickles. — [See directions for Cherry Piokles.i 

Spiced Currants. -Take five pounds of fruit, four of 
brown sugar, a little less than two tablespoonfuls of cloves, 
same quantity of cinnamon, boil two hours, then add one 
pint of vinegar and boil fifteen minutes. Grapes may be 
prepared in the same way, having first taken the seeds out 
as for preserves. Add a triiip of cayenne. 

Grape Pickles. — Take grapes fresh from the vines and 
net too ripe, and pick from the stem, without breaking, and 
pack in dtone or glass jars. For every seven pounds of 
fruit take one quart of vinegar, four pounds of sugar, an 
even teaspoonf ul of cloves and one of cinnamon tied in a 
bag; bring the vinegar, sugar and spices just to the boiling 
poini, then, when a little cooled, turn over the grapes. 
If they are in a stone jar, a small plate must be placed over 
the top to prevent their rising above the liquor. With the 
amount of vinegar given they wUl keep a long time with- 
out scalding. 

Liemon Pickles.— They should be small and with thick 
rind Rub them with a piece of flannel; then slit the 
fruit half down in four quarters but not through to the 
pulp ; fill the sUts with salt hard pressed in ; set them upright 
in a pan for four or five days until the salt melts, turn them 
thrice a day in their own liquid, until tender. Make enough 
pickle to cover them, of vinegar, the brine of the lemons, 
one Jamaica pepper and a small piece of ginger. Boil and 
skim; when cold, pour over the lemons, with two ounces of 
mustard-seed to six lemons. When the lemons are used, 
the pipkle will be useful in fish and other sauces. 



MISOEI,LANEOUS. 835 

Pickled Peaches, No. 1.— "Wipe off the down from a 
dozen free-stone peaches and put theia in. a brine strong 
enough to bear up an egg. In two days take them out, 
drain through a sieve, and put them in a jar. Tie in a bag 
one ounce of whole white pepper, one of brolten ginger-root 
and two of mustard-seed. Scald a full quart of vinegar, and 
while hot pour over the peaches. If sweet pickles are de- 
sired^ use one and one half pounds of sugar to every quart 
of vinegar. 

Pickled Peaches, No. 2.— Peel seven pounds large 
peaches and put them into a porcelain kettle with cold syr- 
up, made in the proportion of a pin t of vinegar to four 
pintd of sugar. Tie a teaspoonful of cloves and a tablespoon- 
ful of cinnamon and half an ounce of ginger in a bag, and 
drop into the syrup, which must be gradually heated till it 
boils. Then take out the peaches and pour the liquor over 
them. Cover them and the next morning drain off the syr- 
up, scald, and pour over the fruit. Continue to do so for a 
week. 

Some persons prefer the unpeeled peaches with four cloves 
stuck in each. The shape is iiius pi-eserved, but the skins 
are peculiarly tough. It is better to keep them in closely 
sealed cans till needed. Only as much fruit must be used as 
the syrup will cover. 

Pickled Pears.— Dissolve two pounds and a half of sug- 
ar in a quart of cider vinegar, and drop into it a bag filled 
with a tablespoonf ul of ground cinnamon and half a grated 
nutmeg. This amount of syrup will cover a little more 
than two pounds of fruit. If the pears are small, picltle 
them whole, if large, cut them in halves and take out the 
core; the skin may or may not be removed. Cover closely, 
simmer till tender, skim them outinto cans or jars, cook the 
syrup fifteen minutes longer, pour over them, and seal. 

Peaches Spiced. — Peel large peaches but do not remove 
the pits. To six pounds of fruit take three and a half of 
sugar, one qu£|,rt of vinegar, and one teaspoonful eachof cin- 



226 FEUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

namon and cloves tied in a bag. Boll slowly for an hour, 
in a granite or porcelain kettle, and can while hot. Pears 
may be spiced in the same way; so may apples. 

Pine-apple Pickle.— Slice the pine-apple very thin 
and pour over it a syrup made of two pounds of sugar to 
a pint of vinegar, with spices of cloves", cinnamon and all- 
spice. The next morning drain off the syrup, boil up again, 
and pour over the fruit. Repeat it twice after vrard. Kipe 
musk-melon, ripe cucumber, and water-melon is pickled in 
th6same manner. The rind is cut in thick oblong pieces' 
and the outer skin shaved off. 

Pickled Plums.— For eight pounds of fruit take four 
pounds of sugar, one quart of vinegar, one ounce of cinna- 
mon, and one of cloves; scald the vinegar, sugar, and spices 
together; skim, pour scalding hot over the fruit, and let it 
stand three days; pour off the syrup, scald and skim, and 
pour over again, and continue this process every three days 
till they are scalded three times. The plums shoulal be 
Pricked with a needle before dropping into the syrup. 

Quince Pickles. — Peel the quinces and divide into 
eighths reserving cores and parings for jelly. Put the 
sections into a preserving kettle on the back of the range, 
with water enough to keep them from burning. Cover, and 
let the fruit steam till tender, then throw in three-fourths 
its weight of sugar. Weigh again, when the sugar is dis- 
solved, and to every four pounds and a half of fruit, allow 
one-half pint of vinegar and one tablespoonful of mixed 
cinnamon and mace tied in a cheese-cloth bag. Cover 
closely and let it simmer fifteen minutes. Skim the fruit 
into glass jars, boil the syrup till it thickens, pour over the 
quinces and seal. 

Balslus Pickled. -Make a syrup of two pounds of the 
best brown sugar and ono pint of vinegar, with a teaspoon- 
ful each of cinnamon, spice and cloves tied in a bag. Heat 
to the boiling point, skim, and turn it over two pounds of 
large selected raisias on their steins. On the second (Jay. 



MISCELLANEOUB. 227 

drain ofl the syrup and reheat, put in the raisins and let 
them soalc in the hot syrup, kept just below the boiling 
point, till they are tender. Keep in stone or glass. They 
are good without the spices, whioh to some tastes are no ad- 
dition to the flavor. This makes a very delicate pickle. 

Nastiirtium-seetl.— Take the green seeds after the flow- 
er has dried off, but before they are ripe and hard. Lay in 
salt and water two days, in cold water one day; pack in 
bottles and cover with scalding vinegar, seasoned with 
mace and white pepper-corns, and sweetened slightly with 
white sugar. Cork, and set away four weeks before using 
them. They are an excellent substitute for capers. 

Pickled Butternuts and Walnuts.— Gather them 
when soft enough to be pierced by a pin. Lay them in 
strong brine live days, changing this twice in the mean- 
time. Drain, and wipe them with a coarse cloth; pierce 
each by running a large needle through it, and lay in cold 
water for six hours. To each gallon of vinegar allow a cup 
of sugar, three dozen each of whole cloves and black pep- 
per corns, half as much allspice, and a dozen blades of 
mace. Boil five minutes; pack the nuts in small jars and 
pour over them scalding hot. Repeat this twice within a 
week; tie up and set away. They will be good to eat in a 
month. 



FEUIT CATSUPS. 

Oooseberry Catsup.— To twelve pounds of stemmed and 
clipped gooseberries add eight pounds of brown sugar, one 
tablespoonful of cinnamon, and other spices to taste, in- 
cluding one teaspoonful of cayenne. Boil two hours, add a 
quart of good vinegar, strain, and bottle. 

Grape Catsup, STo. 1.— Simmer three quarts of grapes 
till they are soft, then mash through a colander. Add two 
pounds of brown sugar, one pint of vinegar, two even ta- 



328 FEUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

ble.ipoonfuls each of cloves, allspice and cinnamon, one 
tea spoonful of salt, and one of cayenne pepper. Boil till it 
thickens, then bottle. 

G-rape Catsup, No. 2.— Squeeze the pulp from ten 
pounds of grapes, boil it five minutes, and strain out the 
seeds. Throw skins into one pint of vinegar, cover closely, 
and boil till tender; tie in a bag one scant tablespoonful of 
allspice, and a heaping tablespoonful of cinnamon and of 
cloves, a teaspoonful of salt, and one of cayenne. Add two 
quarts brown sugar, heat and bottle. 

Plum Catsup. — Pour one pint of hot water over seven 
pounds of plums, cover closely and steam till tender. Then 
ai'd f(. ur pounds brown sugar, one pint good vinegar, and 
one even tablespoonful each of cinnamon, allspice and 
cloves, and two thirds of a teaspoonful of cayenne. Cover, 
and steep half and hour, then seal in cans. Before serving 
them in a pickle dish take out the pits. 



FEUIT SALAD. 

In summer-time, fruit salads form a cool and delicious 
adjunct of luncheon or dinner. A few j'ears ago a aalad 
consisted of " uncooked herbs, dressed with salt, vinegar 
and spices," but at pres'jut, the word has outgrown that 
definition, especially in adding fruit to the list of edibles. 
Berries, bananas, peaches, pearp, currants, pineapples, or- 
anges and lemons are all served as salads. Mrs. Emma 
P. Ewing's comprehensive little liook, entitled "Salads and 
Salad Making," describes minutely the pr-ocess of making- 
simple and componnd dressing, which, however, is not 
perplexing work. A judicious mixture of fruits and j uices 
depends upon natural taste. Like fruit cream, the salad 
should stand au hour or two in a cool place before it is 



MISCELLANEOUS. 329 

sei'ved, in order to acquire that blending or " ripening" of 
flavors which produces a perfect result. 

The simplest of all salads is the ripe currant sprinkled 
with sugar, then currants and raspberries togethei', tiieu 
oranges and bananas sliced and dressed with lemon juice 
and sugar. 

Apple Salad. — Peel and slice tart mellow apples, sprink- 
le with sugar ai d the juice of an orange or a lemon. A 
coarser taste will mingle the apple with a few thin slices of 
a raw mild onion, a dessert-spoonful of oil, in which is min- 
gled a trace of cayenne, and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

Aguacates or Alligator Pear Salad.— This tropical 
fruit which can be procured in the large cities is made into 
a salad by cutting the fruit in two lengthwise, removing 
the rind and large seeds, and dressing it with oil, vioegar, 
pepper and salt; as the pear is itself rich in oil that ingredi- 
ent may be dispensed with. 

Banana Salad. — Peel and cut in slices six bananas, 
peel the same number of oranges, and remove the white 
incerior rind, then slice across the orange, removing the pits 
Arrange them in layers, sprinkle with powdered sugar and 
over them squeeze the j uice of a large lemon. 

Compound Fruit Salad.— Peel one pine-apple and 
shred it in small pieces with a silver fork, peel and slice thin 
six bana,nas, and peel, tear into sections, and seed four sour 
oranges. Arrange in a crystal dish in layers, sprinkling 
sugar between them, then squeeze over the whole the juice 
of one large or two small lemons. Prepare two or three 
hours before serving. 

Or over the same combination of fruit pour the following 
from Mrs. Ewing: 

Transparent Orange Dressing. —To the juice of three 
oranges and one lemon, which should make half a pint. 



230 FRiriTS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

add four ounces of suojar and the white and shell of one 
egg. Beat all together. Heat to the boiling point. Sim- 
mer five minutes and strain. If lilted, a small portion of 
the grated peel of both orange and lemon may be added. 

A jellied orange dressing may be made by adding to the 
above mixture before heating it, half an ounoe of gelatine 
soaked an hour in a gill of cold water. 

The above excellent dressing will be found fitted for 
various kinds of fruits, such as oranges and binana, peeled, 
sliced and piled in alternate layers. The jellied dressing 
may be molded with layers of small fruit, or with large 
fruit sliced. It should be kept on ice till served. 

(To the orange dressing given above, Mrs. E wing adds 
one gill of sherry wine for which can be substituted simple 
orange juice.) 

Orange Salad. — In India oranges are often served with 
a dressing of oil, vinegar and pepper. A better way is to 
squeeze lemon juice over the slices and sprinkle liberally 
with powdered sugar. 



HOW TO KEEP FEUITS. 

Stone fruits should be allowed to reach perfect maturity 
or within a few days of that period, before being gathered. 
The same is true of all kinds of berries which begin to 
lose their value from the hour they are plucked. 

Grapes should be perfectly ripe. Summer pears ought 
to be gathered one or two weeks before maturity, other- 
wise they are mealy and worthless. Cover them with flan- 
nel and store in a dark closet until they have undergone 
that mysterious chemical change which sweetens their 
juices. Summer apples, likewise, should be plucked be- 
fore they are quite ripe. Winter pears and apples ought 
to remain on the tree till near frost. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 231 

Fine -winter apples ougJit to be hand-picked and careful- 
ly packed in barrels under the trees to cure, then removed 
to a di-y, cool cellar, and kept just above the freezingpoint. 
They may be packed in dry sand, rejecting any that have 
the slightest appearance of decay, or wrap each apple r.ep- 
arately in a piece of thin paper, such as is used around 
oranges. By following this method, they will keep till 
June. 

Plums, pears, peaches, apricots and nectarines need to 
be kept in a cool place, vi'ith a free circulation of air, and 
should not touch each other. Frequently looking over all 
kinds of fruit and rejecting any that show the slightest 
symptoms of decay, will aid ia the preservation of the re- 
mainder. Here, as elsewhere, evil communicatic>ns corrupt 
good manners. 

Berries and cherries should be spread out and exposed 
to the circi.ilation of the cool air as much as possible; In 
the same way tr6at oranges and lemons. The latter may 
be preserved several weeks, when shriveling up in hot 
weather, by keeping in glass jars filled with cold water. 
Change the water every week. Cranberries may be kept 
in the same way. 

Since canning became general dried fruits are less in 
favor than before. Evaporated fruits are excellent. Dried 
cherries have been used in Germany since time immemo- 
rial. They are stewed in water and thickened with flour to 
make a soup for the beginning or the close of dinner. Date 
paste, consisting of ripe fruit pressed into a cake, forms 
a staple food for the Arabs ten months of the year, show- 
ing the excellent properties contained in dried fruits. 
These dates are boiled and stewed with butter or honey. 



233 FEUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 



WEIGHTS AND MEASUKES. 

la all the recipes in " Fi'uits and How to Use Them,'' 
salt is omitted tdmply because any housekeeper knows 
how much or how little she wishes to use, better than any 
one can direct. Some fruits, like the apple, have aa accent- 
uated flavor by the addition of a trifle of salt, others are 
injured. 

It must be distiactly understood that in the use of sugar, 
one pint is equivalent to one pound, that one cupful means, 
more than one teacupful, viz : one-half pint. It takes one 
heaping pint of powdered sugar, however, to make one 
pound. By a tablespoonful of any ingredient is meant 
one slightly rounded. For the rest, see the following : 

4 saltspoonf uls equal 1 teaspoonf ul. 

3 teaspoonfuls " 1 tablespoonful. 

4 tablespoonfuls " >!fcup. 

2gills •' 1 cup. 

2cups " 1 pint. 

Spirits " 1 Quart. 

4 quarts " 1 gallon. 

4cupsflour " 1 pound. 

2cupaeugar " 1 " 

1 cup f olid butter " 1 " 

1 heaping tablespoonful butter " Bounces. 

1 " " sugar " 1 ounce. 

1 tablespoonfulliquid '• M " 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



HOW TO SEEVE FRUIT. 

Very mucli of the beauty of fruit depends upon the man- 
ner in which it is put upon the table* To persons of re- 
finement an esthetic service adds greatly to the enjoyment 
of all kinds of food, certainly of fruit. 

Apples ought to bo well polished with a cloth and piled 
in a high dish, yellow and red together, with a silver knife 
at each plate. Steel knives ought never to be used with 
fruit, since they produce discoloration. 

Bananas ought to be heaped with oranges or grapes in a 
high dish of porcelain or erj'stal. 

Berries should be freshly arranged in a large holder and 
served without sugar, which draws out the juice and t')ngh- 
ens them. Each person can use sugar and cream accord- 
ing to his own taste. 

From clusters of grapes clip all that are unsound or un- 
I'ipe, and Iny them tenderly upon a bed of their own green 
leaves. The various shades of purple and translucent- 
gi'een, are lovely when arranged together or with golden 
or an ges gleaming between th e clu ster s . Grape scissors are 
now frequently placed beside each dessert plate. 

Melons should be kept on ice or in a cool cellar a few 
hours before using. Water-melons ought to be brought 
to the table entire, and cut across the middle, on a platter, 
with a carving knife. Nutmeg and musk-melons ought to 
be divided lengthwise and brought to the table, after the 
seeds are scooped out, with a lump of ice in each hemi- 



284 FRUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

sphere. Cut in long strips and pass round both salt and 
sugar. Have knife, fork and teaspoon at each plate. 

The serving of oranges is described under the heading 
"Oranges," among the recipes. 

Peaches should be peeled thin and sliced, but a few^ of 
the finest ought to be reserved for a central dish sincP 
many persons prefer Jo peel their own fruit. A iev/ grein 
leaves about the edge of the dish help to bring out their 
velvet loveliness. 

Pears should be served in a high dish with green leaves. 
Plums, the purple and green gage, have their coloring en- 
hanced by a few sprays of the nasturtium, leaves and blos- 
soms together. In fact the lovers of the beautiful, always 
fertile in resource, will devise a hundred different ways of 
arranging fruit as a table decoration. 



CONCLUDING NOTES. 

While it has been the aim, in the preceding pages, to 
present a tolerably complete list of recipes for the prepara- 
tion of table fruits, it is most earnestly recommended, in 
the interest of good health, that the housekeeper should 
confine herself to the simpler forms. Among them there 
can certainly be found a sufficient variety to satisfy the 
most fastidious and exacting, 

"Fruits and How to Use Them" is not claimed to be an 
exhaustive work. The permutations to be rung upon this 
important food are practically endless. 

During the last six years the author and compiler, in 
the interest of this book, has consulted many private house- 



Mis CELL ANEOX/S. S35 

keepers of great experience, (beside a vast number of cook- 
books), to all of wbom she returns grateful thanks. 

In cases requijing either, baking-powder has been given 
instead of soda and cream of tartar or sour milk, but each 
housewife has her own favorite method, which she can 
readily substitute for that. 

Frequent directions are given for the making of fruit 
pies. Were the art of mixing the ordinary pie-craat lost 
forever "the world would be the better for it,'' but house- 
keepers will make pies and hoaseholilers will eat thorn. 
Following are some healthful ways of making plain pastry. 

Plain Pastry.— Mix together equal quantities of 
Graham and white flour and wet with cold sweet cream, in 
the propojxion of three cups of flour to on<=i scant cup of 
cream. Stir it with a spoon rapidly and lightly. Without 
kneading, gather the dough with the fingers and set in a 
very cool place half an hour before rolling out. 

Two rounding teaspoonfuls of baking-powder will make 
this crust still lighter. In that case roll and V)ake at once. 

Again, take equal quantities of white pastry flour, Indian 
meal and oat-ineal and wet with cream as above directed. 
It should in all cases be rolled thin, for the pastry is only 
needed as an envelope for the fruit. 

Plain. Butter Paste. —Rub one pound of flour into a 
bmooth, thick paste with ice cold water, roll it out and 
weigh out one quarter of a pound of good butter, which 
should be divided into three equal portions. Spread the 
paste with dots of butter, sprinkle on a trifle of flour, roll it 
over and roll out. Dot it a second time with butter and 
yet a third, touching it with the hand« as little as possible- 
Set in the ice-box a few minutes, then roll and bake. 

Good tarts or pies can be made with this pastry if the 
lower cru.'it is filled with clean linen rags; then cover with 



23fl PKUIT.:! AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

the upper crust and bake. Take off the top, pour in fre-,h 
fruit mashed and sweetened, cover with alittle sweet cream, 
replace the crust and Serve. 

In all cases, in the recipes, where " spoonfuls," either 
lai'ge or smin 1 are mentioned, rounded spoonfuls are meant, 
not heaped. 

This little book will fulfill its mission if it satisfies a few 
housekeepers that the shedding of blood and bacrifice of 
animal life, especially in the summer season, is not neces- 
sary in order to furnish a table both wholesome and at- 
tractive. In the long list of excellent cook books now at 
hand, with " Marion Harlaud's Common Sense in the House- 
hold" at the head, prevails a mixed dietary in which fruits 
have not received a reoognitioa of that value which will be 
accorded to them in the civilization of the future. This is 
due to the fact that even two years ago fruits were to be 
found in the market less plentifully than they are to-day, 
and also that they were less luscious and easily preserved. 
As a courier of far greater prodigality and richness on the 
part of Nature's choice productions, "How to use Fruits" 
presents its modest claims. 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



Apple, The, 27. 
appljade, 161, 162. 
au burre, 46. 
baked, 31. 
bread, milk, and, 

29. 
bread pudding, 

and, 40. 
bread, 46. 
brown bread, 46 
butter, 49. 
cake, 47, 48. 
canned, 175, 
charlotte, 49, 201. 
coddled, 36. 
compote, 33. 
cream and, 29,32. 
croquettes, 45. 
custard pie, 34, 

35. 
dried, 159. 
dumplings, 36, 

37,38. 
egKS, 45. 
filling: for cake, 

144. 
float, 32, 202. 
fried, 47. 
fritters, 46. 
frosted, 31. 
gelatiiied, 48. 
gretn-caps, 31. 
ice-cream, 213. 
jam, 150. 
jelly, 149,150,193. 

" orpomarius, 

158. 
marmalade, 150. 
mei'ingue, 35, 

omalet, 45. 
paii-do«fdy, 36. 
paste, 158. 
pickles, 232, 223. 
pie, 33, 34,35. 
pie, (evaporated), 



Apple. 

pie, pine-apple 

and, 34. 
pie, custard, 34, 35 
pone, 46. 
preserves, 178. 
preserves entire, 

179, 
preserves, (green) 

179. 
preserves, ginger 

179. 
preserves, lemon,- 

179. 
puddings, 38-44. 
pudding, graham 

46. 
quinces, and, 30. 
raisins, and, 30. 
rice pudding, 

and, 39. 
salad, 229. 
sauce with boiled 

cidej', 30. 
shape, 32. 
sherbet, 217. 
slump, 44. 
snow, 201. 
soup. 45. 
sponge, 198. 
stewed, 29, 30. 
tapiuca, 219. 
tarts, 38, 48. 
toast water, 162. 
turnovers, 35, 
whipped, 47. 

Apricot, The, 50. 
creams, 202. 
cream. Bavarian, 

202. 
ice-cream, 213. 
fritters, 61. 
frozen, 220. 
rice, wltb, 60, 



Banana, The, 51. 

baked, 53. 

blane-mange, 53. 

cake, filling for, 
144. 

cream, and, 52, 

fried, 54, 

fritters, 52, 53. 

frozen, 220. 

gems, 54. 

ice-cream, 214. 

jelly, 194. 

oraDges,and, 52. 

pie, 64. 

pudding, 63. 

pudding, sauce 
for, 140. 

salad, 229. 

short-cake, 63. 

sponge, 198. 
Barberry jelly, 160. 

preserves, 180. 
Berry cobbler 127, 

dried, 160. 

jelly, 194. 

niusli, 128. 

rice pudding, and 
138. 

Blackberkt, The, 55, 
Blac.cberryade, 16;i. 

candied, 188. 

canned, 175. 

cordial, 162. 

cream, 203. 

jam, 151. 

jelly, 151, 194. 

mush, 56. 

pickles, 223. 

preserves, 180. 

pudding, 55. 56. 

pudding, minute, 
57. 

ripe, 55, 

roll, 56, 



238 



FRUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 



Blackberky. 
spongre, 198. 
tapioca, 219. 
vinegar, 162. 



Blanc-Mange, 200. 
banaaa, 53. 
pine-apple, 209 . 
raspberry, 119. 810 

Cake, forfllllng, 143. 
Candied fruit pastes. 



Catsup, 

gooseberry, 237. 
grape, 237, 238. 
plum, 238. 



Charlotte, 

apple, 49, 201. 
orange, 206, 207. 
peach, 208. 



Cheery, The, 57. 

canned, 175. 

cordial, 163. 

cream, 203. 

cups, 59. 

dried, 160. 

frozen, 220. 

jelly, 151. 194. 

piolcles, 323. 

pie, B9. 

preserves, 180. 

pudding, baked, 
58. 

pudding, boiled, 
58. 

sponge, 198, 

tapioca, 60, 

toast, 59. 

water-ice, 217. 
Citron ice, 217. 

mellon preserved, 
181. 

preserves, 181. 



Chocolate, 60. 
calce, 61, 
cake, Qliin); tor, 

144, 145. 
cookieH, 62. 
cream, 204. 



Chocolate, 

cream. Bavarian, 

203. ■ 
jelly 195. 
macaroons, 61. 
pie, 62. 
pudding, 61. 



CocoANUT, The, 62. 

balls, 66. 

cake, 65, 66. 

cones, 67. 

cookies, 64. 

cracknels, 67. 

cream, 204. 

custard, 64. 

desiccated, 65. 

drops, 66. 

flllins, 145. 

ice-cream, 214. 

jumbles, 66. 

pie. 65-66. 

pudding, 63, 64, 

S low, 204. 

sponge, 64. 
Concluding Notes, 234. 

Crab APPLE, 
Jelly, 151. 
pickles, 224. 

Cranberry, The, 67. 
Cran berry ade, 163. 

cake, filling for, 
146. 

dumplings, 68. 

jam, 152. 

jelly, 151. 152, 195. 

marmalade, 152. 

pickles, 224. 

pie, 68. 

pudding, 68, 69. 

roily-poly, 68, 

sauce, 67. 
Culture and Preoerva- 
tlon of Fruit by 
Women, 2A 

Currant, The, 70. 

currantade, 163. 
canned, 176. 
dried, 160. 
flummery, 195. 
fritters, 72. 
game, sauce for, 

142. 
how to wash, 70. 
ice, 195, 217. 



Currant, 

jam, 152. 153. 
jelly, 152. 195. 
•■ cold, 158. 
meringue, 71. 
pie (green), 71. 

" (ripe), 71. 
preserves, 181. 
pudding, 72. 
sherbet. 196. 
short-cake, 73. 
spiced, 224 
sponge, 193. 
stewed, 71. 
tartlets, 72. 
Zante, 70. 

Date, The, 73. 
bread, 75. 
cake, 76. 
cake, filling for, 

146. 
musfa, 75. 
pie. 74. 

pudding, 74, 76. 
puffs, 75. 
sandwiches, 76. 
sauce, 74. 

Dumplings, 

apple, 36-38, 
cranberry, 68. 
fruit, 132. 
peach, 105. 
plum, 110. 
strawberry, 125. 

English plum pud- 
ding, 139. 

Fig, The, 77. 

cake, fancy, 79. 
cake, filling for, 

146. 
pie, 79. 

preserves, 180. 
pudding, potatc 

and, 79. 
pudding, 78. 79. 
raisin filling, and, 

146. 
rhubarb, and, 78. 
sponge, 199. 
water, 163. 
French pancakes with 

jelly, 1.31. 

Fritters, 

apple, 45. 



INDEX. 



'^39 



Fritters, 

bauaua,53. 
currant, 72. 
truit,131, 
lemon, 88. 



Fruit. 

ambrosia, 127. 

beverages, 161. 
" temper- 
anc-e, 163. 

blano-mange, 1?9. 

bread, dessert, 
and, 128, 140. 

cake, 129. 

caice, tilling tor, 
143. 

candied, 191. 

canued, 171. 

charlotte, 305. 

cream. Bavarian, 
203. , 

creams, floats, 
&c., 300. 

dried or evapo- 
rated, 131, 159. 

dumplings, 132. 

flummery, 130. 

fritf.eis, 131. 

frosted. 192. 

froze:i, 220, Wl. 

how to keep, 230. 

how to serve, 233. 

Ice cream, 212,313. 

jams, 149. 

jellied, 149. 

juices, 164. 

manloca pud- 
. ding, 138. 

meringue. 204. 

mixture, frozen, 
231. 

paste, 158, 192. 

pie pastry, 335. 

plea and tarts, 
133. 

pot pie, 129. 

preserved, 178. 

preserving, syr- 
ups for, 133 

proportion for 
puddings, 134-138 

rolls, 137. 

sago, and, 128. 

sauces, 140,142. 

sherbets, 216. 

snow, 131. 

soup, 127. 

stowed, 133. 

sugar, with, J73. 



FB0IT. 

syrups, 161. 
syiups (.fresh 

fruit), 169. 
tapioca, and, 139. 
tarts, 130. 
temperance 

beverage, 163. 
toast, 128. 
trifle, 204. 
turn-overs, 133. 
water ices, 2lti. 
whip, 128. 

GoosEBEURy, The, 80. 
catsup, 227. 
custard, 81. 
fool, 80. 
jam, 153. 
pie, 81. 
pudding, 81. 
roU, 80. 
sauce, 80. 
spiced, 81. 
stewed, 80, 
water, 164. 

Grape, The, 82. 

catsup, 237-238. 
fruit, 83. 
jam, 153. 
jelly, 154. 
juice, 164, 165, 
piciiles, 334. 
t,le. 83. 

short-cake, 82. 
spiced, 83. 
vinegar, 164. 
water-ice, 196. 

GuAVA, The, 84. 
jeUy, 180. 

How to keep fruits. 230. 
How to keep jellies and 

preserves, 187. 
How to serve Iruits, 

333. 

HUCKIiEBERRY, THE, 
84. 
cake, 86. 
corn cake, 86. 
griddle cakes, 85. 
milk, and, 85. 
pie, 87. 

preserves, 181. 
pudding. 86. 
sauce, 85. 



HUCKLBBERB7. 

sweet cake, 86, 

toast, 85. 
Hygenic value of 

fruit, 13. 

ICE-CREAM, 212. 
apple, 313. 
apricot, 213. 
banana, 214, 
cocoanut, 214. 
lemon, 3i4, 
orange, 215. 
peach, 215. 
pine-apple, 215. 
Philadelphia, 213. 
(luince, 315. 
raspberry, 215. 
strawberry, 216. 
tutti-frutti, 216. 

Increase in use of 

fruit, 17. 
Introduction, 9. 

Jam, 149. 

roll, 130. 
turu'Dvers, 138. 

Jelly, 149. 

apple, 149, 150, 158 

193. 
banana, 194. 
barberry, 150 . 
berry, 194. 
blackberry, 151. 
cherry, 151, 194. 
chocolate, 195. 
crabapple, 151. 
cranberry, 151, 

152, 195 
currant, 152, 153, 

195. 
filling, cake, 147. 
French pancake, 

with, 131. 
grape, 154. 
how to keep, 187. 
lemon, 196. 
orange, 196. 
peach, plum, and 

pear, 196. 
pine-apple, 197. 
pudding, sauce, 

for; 141. 
pudding, 139. 
quince, 1B7, 197. 
sauce for game, 

142. 
Strawberry, 158, 

197. 



240 



FEUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 



Lemon, The, 87 . 
Lemonade, 165, 166. 
cake. 90. 
candied, 192. 
cream, 205. 
flUing, 147. 
float, 206. 
fritters, 88. 
honey, 91 . 
honey, French, 91. 
ice-cream , 214-. 
jelly, 196. 
juice, 91. 
meringue, 305. 
miLli, with, 167. 
orange jelly, and, 
196. 

pie, 88, 89. 

" cream, 89. 

" custard, 89. 

" mola&Bes, 89. 
" raisin, and, 8! 
" Washington, 
90. 

peel candled, 198. 

pickles, 234. 

p-adding, 87,88- 

punch, 166. 

saui'e, 141. 

short-cake, 90, 

sponge, 199. 

syrup, 167. 

tea, 166. 

tincture, 167. 

vinegar, 166. 

water, 167. 

water-ice, 196. 

whey, 167. 



Lime, The, 93. 

Mango, the, 98 
Marmalades, 149. 

Nantucket, pudding, 
berry, 133. 



Nuts. 

macaroons, 94 
pickles, butternut, 

327. 
pickles, wain ut,227, 

Orange, The, 95. 
Orangeade, 167. 
baskets, 100. 
cake, 97. 

charlotte, 206, 207. 
coooanut, and 

cake, 148. 
compote, 96. 
cream, 207. 
cream for cake, 

98. 
custard, 98. 
dreasing for 

salad, 229. 
filling for cake, 

147. 
float, 307. 
frozen, 321. 
ice, 318. 

ice-cream, 315. 
jellied,206. 

jelly, 196. 

maimalade, 154. 

meringue, 207. 

patties, 96. 

peel candied, 193. 

pie, 99. 

preserves, 183. 

peel, 18;3 

pudding, 100, 101 

rhubarb, and 
preserves, 183. 

roUy-poly, 'K. 

salad, 230. 

sauce, 100, 141. 

sherbet, 318. 

short-cake, 99. 

snow, 206. 

sponge, 199. 

tapioca, 96. 

tartp, 97. 

water-ice, 217. 
Pastry.plain, 235. 



NASTCBTinM, pickles 

827. 

Nuts, 94. 

almond filling,143 

144. 
almond salted,134. 
cake, 94, 95. 
candi ed, 191. 
cookies, 94. 
filling for calce, 
149, 



Peach, The, 102. 

apple, and, 103. 
baked, 102. 
blossom cake, 130. 
butter, 106. 
canned. 176. 
charlotte, 208. 
cobbler, 105. 
cream, Bavarian, 

208. 
custard, 103, 



Peach, 

dried, 160. 
dumplings, 105. 
filling for cake, 

148. 
flummery, 103. 
fritters, 105. 
frozen, 281. 
ice-cream, 315. 
jelly, 156, 196. 
leather, 161. 
marmalade, 156. 
meringue, 106. 
pickled, 885. 
pie, 106. 

preserves, 183-3. 
pudding, 105. 

" baked, 104. 

■' batter, 104. 

" boiled, 104, 

" bread, 103. 

*' manioca, 103. 

" sauce tor, 104 

141. 

" tapioca, 105. 
salad, 329. 
epiced, 225. 



Peab, The, 107. 
baked, 108. 
canned, 176. 
cream, and 107. 
jelly, 196. 
klosse, 108. 
marmalade, 156. 
pickled, 225. . 
preserves, 183. 
priokly 108. 
salad, 889, 
stewed, 107. 
tarts, 108. 

Persimmon, The, 109. 

Pickles, 232 2 

apple, 3 8, 333. 
blaoii berry , 223. 
butter-nut, 327. 
cherry, 823. 
crabappie, 224. 
cranberry, 284. 
currant, 224. 
grape, 224. 

lemon, 224. 

nasturtium-see J 
227. 

peach, 225. 

pear, 325, 

pine-apple, 226. 

plum, !;26. 

quince, 226. 



INDEX. 



241 



Pickles, 

raisin, 226. 
1 wamut, 337. 



Pies, 



apple, 33-36. 
banana, 54. 
cherry, 59. 
chocolate, 62. 
cocoanut, 65, 66. 
cranberry, 68. 
currant, 71. 
date, 74. 
flg, 79. 
fruit, 133. 
gooseberry, 81. 
gr^pe, 83. 
huckleberry, 87. 
lemon, 88-90. 
orange, 99. 
peach, 106. 
plum, 110 . 
prune, 114,115. 
quince, 115. 
raisin, 117, 118. 
raspberry, 120. 
strawberry. 125. 



PiNB-APPLE, The, 111. 
Plne-appleade, 168. 
blanc-mange, 209, 
canned, 177. 
cream. Bavarian 

209. 
filling for cake, 

148. 
frozen, 221 . 
ice-cream, 215. 
jelly, 197. 
pieties, 226. 
preserves, 183, 184 
pudding, 112. 
pudding, potato 

and. 111. 
sauce. 111 . 
sherbet, 218. 



.Plum. The, 109. 
cauued, 176 . 
catsup, 228. 
dried, 161. 
dumplings, 110. 
jelly, •196. 
pickled, 226. 
pie, 110. 
preserves, 184. 
pudding, 110. 
roll, 110. 



POMBGBANITE, THE, 
112. 



PBES«ItVBS,178 . 

apple, 178, 179. 

" ginger, 179. 

" (green),ir9 

" lemon, 179. 
barberry, 180. 
blackberry, 180. 
cherry, 180. 
citron, 181. 

" melon, 181, 
currant, 181. 
ttg, 180. 
fruit syrup for, 

133. 
huckleberry, 181. 
orange, 182. 

" rhubarb, 

and, 182. 
orange peel, 182, 
peach, 182. 
pear, 183. 
pine-apple, 183, 
plum, 184. 
quiuce, 184, 185. 
raisin, 185. 
strawberrj, 185, 
tutti-frutti, 186. 
water-melon 

rind, 186. 

Pkone, The, 113. 
custard, 114. 
pie, 114, 115. 
puUding, 114. 
stewed, 114. 

PCDDINGS, 134. 

apple, 38, 39, 40, 41, 

42, 43, 44, 46. 
banana, 53. 
blackberry, 55- 57. 
cherry, 58. 
chocolate, 61. 
coooanut, 6J, Ct. 
cranberry, Ot>, u9. 
currant, 72. 
date, 74, 76. 
flg, 78, 79. 
fruit, 134-140. 
gooseberry, 81. 
huckleberry, 86. 
iced, 221. 
lemon, 88. 
orange, 100, 101. 
peach, 103, 104,105. 
pine-apple. 111, 
112. 



Puddings, 

plum, 110. 
prune, 114. 
raisin, 118. 
raspberry, 120. 
strawberry,124. 



QtriNOB, The, U5. 
apple jelly, and 

157. 
can ned, 177. 
honey, 116. 
jelly, 157, 197. 
marmalade. 157. 
pickles, 226. 
pie, 115. 
preserves, 184, 



Raisin, The, 116. 
cake, 119. 
fllling, 148. 
how to seed, 117. 
pickles, 226, 
pie, 117, 118. 
preserves, 185. 
pudding, rice and 

puffs, 117. I 

rhubard, and, 118. 1 
rice, and, 118, 
spirals, 119. 
stewed, 117. 



Baspbebby, The, 119. 
Baspberry acid, 168. 
blanc-mange, 119, 

210. , 

buns, 119 
canned, 177. 
cordisQ, 168. 
cream. Bavarian, 

210. 
cream, 20}. 
fll'ing foi cake, 

149. 
float, 209. 
frozen, 221. 
ice, 218. 
jam, 157, 
jelly, 158. 
pie, 120. 
pudding, 120. 
roll, 121. 
sauce, 141. 
short-cake, 120. 
sponge, 200. 
syrup, 168. 
vinegar, 168. 



342 



FKUITS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 



Salads, 228. 
apple, 329 
banana, 220 
Irult, compound, 

229, 
oiaiitre, 330 
orange dressing:, 

for 839. 
pear, 239. 

Sauces for game,143. 
puddings, for 140. 



Stbawberry.Thb, 131 
canned, 177. 
charlotte, 211. 

'* russe, 211. 
cream, and 132. 
cream, 210. 
cream. Bavarian 

211. 
crushed, 133. 
custard, 133. 



Stratvbkrkt 

uumpiiugs, 135. 

filling, 149. 

float, 311. 

frozen, 231. 

ice, 218 . 

ice-cream, 315 . 

jam, 168. 

jellj', 168. 

mould, 133. 

oranges, and 132. 

pie, 135. 

preserves, 185 . 

padding, 124. 

sauce, 125, 143. 

sherbet, 319. 

short-cake, 123, 134 

sponge, 199. 

syrup, 169. 

vinegar, 169. 

water, US- 
Tamarind, The, 126. 
water, 169. 



Tarts, 

apple, 38, 47, 48. 

currant, 72. 

fruit, 130. 

orange, 97. 

pear, 108. 
Tisane, 169. 



Tdtti FRniTi, 
filling, 149. 
Ice-cream, 216. 
preserves, 186. 



Water Ices, i 



Water mellon preserves 
186. 



Weights and measures, 
■ 332. 



