



7iS 

.Of 5 









MMMMiMHMitl 



iiiiiin&tiiii 



?SSM!MSi8i!SS«!!!iS^^ 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 



Shelf _..0l3 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 






iS* 



The Ideal Cook Book 



COMPILED AND EDITED BY A COMMITTEE OF LADIES 
11^ THE INTEREST OF CHRISTIAN WORK 



■^>-. 



/f^ 



"With baked, and broiled, and stewed, and toasted. 
And fried, and boiled, and smoked, and roasted, 
. (r^ We treat the town." 



c\ 




NEW YORK 

1889 






Copyright, 1889, by 
T. W. ORMISTON, 



Press of J. J. Little & Co., 
Astor Place, New York. 



'' Some liae meat tliat carina eat, 
And some could eat that ivant it ; 
But we liae meat and ive can eat, 
8ae let the Lord he thanhit.^' 



CONTENTS. 

SOUPS. 



PAGE 

Bean Soup 9 

Bisque of Lobster 9 

Bouillon 5 

Cream Chicken Soup 6 

Chicken Soup 7 

Cream Soup 6 

Corn Soup 9 

Egg Balls for Soup 11 

Qiblet Soup 7 



PAGE 

Mock Bisque Soup 7 

Noodles for Soup 11 

Ox-tail Soup 8 

Oyster Soup 10 

Oyster Stew 10 

Puree of Salmon 10 

Puree of Peas . . 6 

Tomato Soup 8 



FISH. 



Blue fish, baked 14 

Chowder, fish 15 

Clam Fritters 19 

Clams, deviled 17 

Codfish, boiled 13 

Codfisli, fried in Butter 16 

Codfisb, picked-up 16 

Codfisli Balls 16 

Crabs, deviled 18 

Crabs, to boil 19 

Crabs, soft shell 18 

Fish, escalloped 15 



Halibut Steak 14 

Lobster, deviled 18 

Lobster Pates 18 

Lobsters, to boil 19 

Oysters, escalloped 16 

Oysters, creamed 16 

Oysters a la Poulette 17 

Ovsters, pickled 17 

Shad, boiled 15 

Shad, baked 14 

Trout, baked 14 



POULTEY. 



Chicken Fricassee 22 j Duck, cold, to use up 25 

Chicken, smothered 22 Goose, roast 24 

Chicken Pates 23 Pigeons, stewed 25 

Chicken Pie 23 I Squabs, broiled 25 



Chicken, boned 23 

Chicken Croquettes 24 

Duck, roast 24 



Squabs, roast 26 

Turkey, roast 21 

Turkey, ragout of 22 



VI 



CONTENTS. 



MEATS. 



PAGE 

Beef, roast 27 

Beef, roast with Yorkshire Pud- 
ding 27 

Beef, stewed with Mushrooms. . 27 

Beef, canuelon of 28 

Beefsteak, broiled 28 

Beefsteak and Onions 28 

Beef's Heart 29 

Beef (corned), pressed 29 

Ham, boiled 36 

Ham and Eggs 36i 

Kidney Stew 29 

Lamb, roast 31 

Lamb Chops 31 

Lamb, stewed with Mushroom 

Sauce 31 



PAGE 

Mutton, roast 30 

Mutton, boiled 30 

Mutton Chops and Tomato 

puree 30 

Pork, roast leg of 35 

Spare-rib, roast 36 

Sweetbreads 35 

Sweetbreads, brown fricassee of 35 

Veal, roast 32 

Veal Scallop 33 

Veal, cannelon of 33 

Veal Cutlets 34 

Veal Croquettes 34 

Veal Loaf 32 

Veal Pot-Pie with Dumplings. . 32 



GAME. 



(i rouse, roasted with Bacon 38 

Partridge 39 

Pigeon, stewed 38 



Rabbit, fricasseed 73 

Venison, haunch of 37 



SAUCES FOE MEAT AND EISH. 



Apple Sauce 44 

Bread Sauce 41 

Bread Sauce for Partiidge and 

Grouse 41 

Caper Sauce 41 

Cranberry Jelly 44 

Drawn Butter 42 

Dressing for Fowls 44 

Gravy for Roast Meats 42 



Gravy for Turkey 42 

Horse-radish Sauce 42 

Mint Sauce 43 

Oyster Sauce 42 

Oyster Dres.sing 44 

Sauce for Salmon and other 

Fish 43 

Sauce for Cod and other Fish. . 42 
Tomato Sauce 43 



EGGS. 

Eggs, boiled 45 | Eggs, poached 45 

Eggs, baked 45 i Eggs, escalloped 46 

Egg Basket 46 Eggs, scraml>led 45 

Eggs, creamed 46 I Omelet 47 



CONTENTS. 



Vll 



SALADS. 



PAGE 

Cabbage Salad, boiled Dressing 

for 51 

Chicken Salad 50 

Lobster Salad ... 49 



PAGE 

Lobster Salad without Oil 49 

Mayonnaise Dressing 50 

Potato Salad 50 

Salad Dressing 49 



VEGETABLES. 



Asparagus 57 

Beans, Boston baked 58 

Beans, string 57 

Celery, stewed 57 

Egg Plant 55 

Egg Plant, Miss F.'s 56 

Macaroni, baked 58 

Macaroni and Tomatoes 59 

Parsnips , 57 

Pease 58 

Potatoes, boiled 53 

Potatoes, chopped, baked 53 



Potato Croquettes 54 

Potatoes, escalloped. 54 

Potato Puff 54 

Potatoes, warmed-up 54 

Potatoes, lyonuaise 55 

Potatoes, Saratoga Fried 55 

Potatoes, sweet 55 

Rice, boiled 60 

Rice Croquettes 59 

Salsify or Oyster Plant 55 

Tomatoes, stewed 56 

Tomatoes, escalloped 57 



BREAD. 



Biscuit, Baking Powder 65 

Bread 61 

Bread, Boston brown 63 

Bread, brown 64 

Bread, graham . 62 

Bread, white 61 

Corn Cake 66 

Gems, graham 65 

Gems, wheat 65 

Griddle Cakes, buckwheat 67 



Griddle Cakes, wheat 66 

Hominy 68 

Muffins 65 

Mush, boiled 68 

Oatmeal Porridge 67 

Pop Overs 65 

Rolls, Parker House 63 

Rolls, raised graham 64 

Waffles 66 

Wheaten Grits 68 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 
CAKES. 



Almond Cake • 73 

Angel's Cake 74 

Boiled Frosting 78 



Bread Cake 72 

Cake without Eggs 74 

Chocolate Cake 73 



Yin 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 

Chocolate Caramel 76 

Cocoanut 77 

Cocoanut Cake .... 73 

Coffee Cake 73 

Cookies 75 

Corn Starch Cake 75 

Cream Custard 77 

Cream Fruit Cake 73 

Cream Sponge Cake • 72 

Crullers 76 

Doughnuts 76 

Easy Frosting 78 

Fig Filling 77 

Fruit Cake 74 

Gingerbread 75 



PAGE 

Ginger Wafers 76 

Gold Cake 72 

Hermit's 76 

Hickory Nut Cake 71 

Hints for Making Cake 71 

Icing 77 

Jelly Cake 78 

Layer Cake 73 

Lemon Filling 77 

Minnehaha Cake 75 

Raisin 77 

Silver Cake 72 

Sour Cream 77 

Sponge Cake 74 

White Cake 71 



PIES. 



Apple Pie 79 

Cocoanut Pie 80 

Cream Pie 80 

Custard Pie 81 

Lemon Meringue Pie 80 

Lemon Pie 79 



Meringue Custard Pie 81 

Mince Meat 81 

Pie-plant Pie 80 

Plain Pastry for One Pie 79 

Puff Pastry 79 

Pumpkin Pie 80 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 



Apple Pudding 85 

Batter Pudding 86 

Boiled Lemon Pudding 87 

Cocoanut Pudding 86 

Cottage Padding 84 

Cream Sauce 88 

English Plum Pudding 86 

Fairy Butter 88 

Fig Pudding 88 

Foam Sauce 88 

General Directions 83 

Graham Pudding 83 

Hard Sauce 89 

Indian Pudding 84 



Lemon Sauce 89 

Minute Pudding 86 

Peach Pudding 87 

Pudding Sauce 89 

Queen of Puddings 84 

Rice Pudding 84 

Roly-Poly 86 

Sou r Sauce 89 

Steamed Cabinet Pudding 85 

Steamed Pudding. 83 

Strawberry Short-Cake 88 

Suet Pudding 85 

White Steamed Pudding 85 



CONTENTS. 



IX 



FANCY DESSEETS. 



PAGE 

Baked Cup Custards 96 

Blanc Mange 94 

Boiled Custard 96 

Charlotte Russe 94 

Charlotte Russe 94 

Chocolate Blanc Mange 95 

Coffee Jelly 92 

Crenie de Thyra 97 

Dessert 97 

Farina Jelly 94 

Floating Island 95 

Ice Cream 98 

Imperial Graiium Ice Cream 98 



PAGE 

Lemon and Fruit Jelly 93 

Lemon Jelly 93 

Orange Float 92 

Orange Jelly 93 

Orange Souffle 92 

Plain Corn Starch Pudding 95 

Prune Jelly 96 

Rice Snow 92 

Rock Cream 91 

Snow Pudding 91 

Spanish Cream 93 

Tapioca Cream 91 

Tarte d'Elysee 97 



BEVERAGES. 



A Summer Drink ] 02 

Chocolate 102 

Cocoa 102 



Coffee 101 

Communion Wine 102 

Tea 101 



JELLIES AND PRESERVES. 



Baked Apples 104 

Crab Apple Jelly 104 

Currant Jelly 103 



Grape Preserves 103 

Peaches 103 

Strawberry Jam 104 



THE SICK-ROOM. 



Beef Tea. 118 

Beef Tea 118 

Beef Tea , 118 

Beef Juice 119 

Chicken Broth 119 

Clam Broth 119 

Cough Syrup 121 

Flaxseed Lemonade 120 

Flaxseed Tea 120 



Indian Meal Gruel 120 

Kumy ss 120 

Lemon Drink 120 

Mustard Plasters 121 

Mutton Broth 119 

Sago Gruel 119 

Scraped Beef 118 

Toast Water 120 



DIRECTIONS FOR SETTING A TABLE AND 
SERVING A DINNER. 

A OAiTTOK-FLANNEL (whicli sliould be double-faced, and 
can be procured at any dry-goods store) is first laid on, and 
over this the tablecloth, with the centre fold directly in the 
middle of the table ; it is always well to place the chairs so 
that each seat will come just where it belongs, and there will 
be no danger of crowding. The host and hostess, or the two 
heads of the family, should always occupy the seats at either 
end of the table. 

At each place should be laid, at the left, as many forks as 
there are to be courses, and at the right the knives, and spoon 
for soup, with the glasses which are necessary ; if individual 
salts are used these are put in the centre, just in front of the 
place left for the plate ; the butter plate is placed at the top 
of the forks ; the napkin, neatly folded, with either a roll or 
thickly cut piece of bread, is laid in the centre, or if the first 
course is to be oysters it is placed at the left of the forks ; a 
butter ball on each plate, and each glass filled with water just 
before the dinner is announced, saves much trouble. On a 
side table, arranged exactly in the order you intend using 
them, should be the plates for each course, so that there will 
be no confusion. A centre-piece of flowers is always an addi- 
tion to any table, and if one does not wish it, a growing plant 
which is not too high will answer, as it is never in good taste 
to have anything which will interfere with the opposite par- 



2 SETTING A TABLE AND SERVING A DINNER, 

ties seeing each other. Small dishes containing jellies, salted 
almondS; pickles or olives, and bon-bons are arranged at 
points where they will look well. The soup ladle is laid in 
front of the hostess, and the carving knife and fork, resting 
on knife rests, are at the right and left of the host. 

For example, we will give a dinner of six courses, consisting 
of raw oysters, soup, fish, meat, salad, and dessert. This will 
require three forks and three knives (two of which should be 
silver, the fish and salad knife) and a soupspoon at each place, 
the oyster forks being laid across the plates, which should be 
on the table before the guests are seated. The attendant will 
have the plates for the soup, fish, and meat warming; the 
plates for the salad and dessert will be neatly arranged on a 
side table (the dessert ones with either spoons or forks, which- 
ever are to be used, also the larger spoon for serving, so that 
when the plates are placed on the table the accessories will be 
also) ; the plates, with the finger bowls and the cups for the 
after dinner cofiee, with a small spoon on each saucer, are also 
ready. 

The dinner is quietly announced without the ringing of a 
bell. We will imagine the guests seated. The attendant, 
with a tray in her hand, stands at the left of the hostess. On 
her tray she immediately passes to the left of each person the 
pepper. When all are through the plates are removed, not 
more being carried at once than can be easily managed on the 
tray. 

The soup is then brought in and, with the warmed plates, 
placed in front of the hostess. As each plate is supplied it is 
taken, the first being passed to the lady guest at the right or 
left of the host, the ladies being served first and then the 
gentlemen ; the attendant, going to the left side of the person. 



SETTING A TABLE AND SERVING A DINNER. 3 

places the plate on the table, and so on until each one is 
served. 

It is an excellent plan to have what is called a knife and 
fork basket, which has two compartments ; and, when all are 
through, the attendant, going to the right of each person, re- 
moves the spoons from the plates, puts them noiselessly into 
the basket, and removes them to the pantry. The plates are 
then taken on the tray, piling easily, and the course offish is 
brought and placed before the host. As the fish is served, the 
potatoes, which are in a dish on a side table, are then passed, 
each person helping himself. Pickles are usually served, with 
fish, and are also passed. At a motion from the hostess, 
the fish is removed and the table again cleared, the knives and 
forks being put in the basket, knives on one side and the 
forks on the other, the plates being taken off on a tray. 

The roast is placed before the host, and, with its vegetable 
or vegetables, served in like manner. If jelly is used with this 
course, it is taken on the plates; but if a sweet pickle (such as 
peaches, pears, etc.), it is always well to have them prepared 
in saucers ready to be passed to each guest, and so save all 
delay. In this case a teaspoon should also have been put at 
each place. The table is again cleared, and the salad is placed 
before the hostess and passed as before, using crackers with this 
course instead of bread. After the salad is removed, butter 
plates, salts, and any knives or forks which have not been 
used and so left on the table, are then taken off on the tray, 
and the crumb-tray is brought and all crumbs are removed, 
either a scraper or brush being used. 

The dessert plates, which have been arranged with the neces- 
saries for serving, are placed in front of the hostess, and the 
dessert is brought on ; this is passed as before, then removed. 



4 SETTING A TABLE AND SERVING A DINNER. 

The small cup of coffee is served, a plate with a finger bowl 
placed before each guest, and the attendant retires. 

This is not too much form for an every-day dinner of three 
courses, soup, meat and vegetables, and dessert ; and the at- 
tendant, who daily serves a dinner as it should be, will never 
be confused with company, as she is simply doing what she is 
accustomed to for a few more in number. 

There should be as little noise as possible, and the under- 
standing between mistress and maid so thorough that a look 
will be sufficient, and no words necessary. 

It is a good plan to have a menu of the dinner pinned up, 
one in the kitchen and one in the pantry, so that nothing will 
be forgotten and no mistake occur. 



SOUPS. 

" Good broth and good keeping do much now and then, 
Good diet, ^^ith wisdom, best comforteth men.'" 

The basis of all soup should be uncooked meat. To this 
may be added cracked bones of cooked meat, of any kind ; 
but for flavor and nourishment depend upon the juices of the 
meat which was put in raw. Put the meat into cold water, 
allowing about one and one-half pints for one pound of bone 
and meat. Let it simmer slowly for six hours at least, only 
uncovering the pot once in a great while to see if there is 
danger of the water sinking too rapidly. During the seventh 
hour, take off the soup, and set away, still closely covered, 
until next morning. About an hour before dinner take out 
the bone and meat, remove the fat from the surface of the 
stock, set the soup over the fire, and add a little salt to bring 
up the scum, which should be carefully skimmed off. Strain 
always through a cullender, after which clear soups should be 
filtered through a hair sieve. 

Bouillon. 

A knuckle of beef well cracked and a small beef bone, one- 
half each of a carrot, turnip, and onion, a little celery. Cover 
the' bones with water and let the kettle stand where it will 
boil slowly all day, twelve hours if possible; the last three 
hours have the vegetables in. Salt, strain through a cul- 
lender into a stone jar. In the morning remove the fat and 
heat the jelly, which should be solid, and strain through a 



6 SOUPS. 

flannel bag. Bouillon is simply a good strong stock well 
seasoned. 

Cream Chicken Soup. 

Boil two chickens till tender, take them np ; strain the 
liquor and add to it two white onions (whole), one carrot, 
one turnip, and one potato. Let it boil up, strain into a dish, 
and set aside till cool. Kemove all fat and return to the fire. 
Rub together one large tablespoonful of butter and the same 
of flour until very light ; stir into the liquor and allow it to 
come to a boil. Have ready a quart of rich milk or cream, 
pour in, stirring all the time ; do not allow it to boil. Serve 
as hot as possible. 

Cream Soup. 

Three pounds of lean veal, one onion, one-half pound pearl 
barley, four quarts water, salt, pepper, and a cup of milk. 
Cut the veal and onion very small, ]out on with the barley. 
Boil slowly until reduced to two quarts. Strain, rubbing the 
barley through a sieve. Season with pepper and salt, simmer 
three minutes. It should be white and thick as cream, when 
you have added the cup of boiling milk, after which it 
should not boil. 

Puree of Peas. 

One pint of split peas soaked over night, three small 
onions, three stalks celery, two small carrots, one bunch 
of sweet herbs, one pint tomatoes, three tal)lespoonfuls of 
butter rolled in flour, three quarts of water, and pepper 
and salt to taste. Put all on to cook together except toma- 
toes and butter. The vegetables must be chopped fine ; stew 
steadily and gently three hours. Rub to a puree through a 



SOUPS. 7 

sieve, and put in the tomatoes freed of bits of skin and cores, 
and cut into bits. Season and return to the fire to cook for 
twenty minutes . longer, closely covered ; stir in the butter 
divided into teaspoon fuls, each rolled in flour. Boil up and 
serve; dice of fried bread should be put into the tureen. 

Chicken Soup. 

Take the fat from tlie top of the liquor in which a chicken 
has been boiled, and put on the soup to heat. Meanwhile 
boil half a cupful of rice tender in a pint of salted milk, and 
when the rice is soft stir in a teaspoonful of butter, worked up 
in flour to prevent oiling; when the soup boils clear, skim and 
add the rice and milk, with two tablespoonfuls of piinced par- 
sley. Pepper and salt to taste; simmer ten minutes. Chop 
up three hard-boiled eggs fine; put into the tureen and pour 
the soup upon them. 

Giblet Soup. 

Break up the skeleton of a roast chicken. Put bones, stufi*- 
ing, and giblets into a soup-kettle with four quarts of water. 
Boil one hour and take out the giblets. Boil the rest an hour 
longer ; strain, cool, and skim. Then put back over the fire 
to simmer. Meanw'hile you should have fried an onion (sliced) 
in two tablespoonfuls of butter ; then taking out the onion 
have stirred in a great spoonful of browned flour, and cooked 
it, stirring incessantly five minutes. ISTow thin this mixture 
with a few spoonfuls of your soup, and strain into soup-kettle. 
Add the chopped giblets ; season well, and serve hot. 

Mock Bisque Soup. 

- Stew a can of tomatoes, and strain them. Add a pinch of 
baking soda to remove the acid. In another sauce-pan boil 



8 SOUPS. 

three pints of milk ; thicken with a tablespoonful of corn 
starch previously mixed with a little cold milk. Add a lump 
of butter the size of an egg. Salt and pepper to taste, and 
mix with the tomatoes. Let all come to a boil and serve at 
once, very hot. 

Tomato Soup. 

Skin carefully one quart of ripe tomatoes, put them in soup- 
pot, pour over two quarts of rich soup stock. Let simmer an 
hour, run through a sieve, return to the pot, season with pep- 
per, salt, and pieces of butter rolled in flour, and a cup of boil- 
ing milk. Let it come to a boil, and serve at once. 

Tomato Soup. 

Open a can of tomatoes, and cut them up small. Take the 
fat from the top of the liquor in which a leg of mutton has 
been boiled, put over the fire with the tomatoes and half a cup 
of raw rice, and cook slowly one hour. Season to taste ; add- 
ing a lump of loaf sugar, and a tablespoonful of butter rolled 
in flour ; simmer five minutes, and pour into the tureen. 

Ox-tail Soup. 

One ox-tail, two pounds of lean beef, four carrots, three 
onions, thyme and parsley, and pepper and salt to taste ; two 
tablespoonfuls of browned flour, four quarts of cold water. Cut 
the tail into joints and fry brown in good dripping. Slice the 
onions and two carrots, and fry in the same, when you have 
taken out the pieces of tail. When done tie them, with thyme 
and parsley, in a lace bag and drop into the soup-kettle. Put 
in the tail, then the beef cut into strips. Grate over them 
the two whole carrots, pour over all the water, and boil slowly 



SOUPS. 9 

four hours. Strain aud season ; thicken with brown flour wet 
with cold water; boil fifteen minutes longer and serve. 

Corn Soup. 

One can of sweet corn, one quart of boiling water, one quart 
of milk, three tablespoonfuls of butter rolled in one of flour ; 
two eggs, pepper and salt, one tablespoonful tomato catsup. 
Drain the corn and chop fine. Put on in the boiling water 
and cook one hour. Rub through a cullender, leaving the 
husks behind, and return it with the water in which it has 
boiled to the fire. Season, boil gently five minutes, and stir 
in the butter and flour. Have ready the boiling milk, pour 
it upon the beaten eggs and then into the soup. Simmer one 
minute, stirring all the while ; take up, add the catsup, and 
serve. 

Bean Soup. 

Soak a quart of dried beans all night in cold water, throw 
this off next morning and cover with water a little more than 
lukewarm. Put over the fire with five quarts of cold water 
and one pound of salt pork. A bone of veal or beef may be 
added, if you have it. Boil slowly for at least four hours: 
shred into it a small onion, four stalks of celery and pepper — 
the pork may salt it sufficiently: simmer half an hour longer; 
rub through a cullender until only husks and fibres remain, 
and send to table hot. 

Bisque of Lobster. 

Meat of one boiled lobster, or a can of preserved lobster, 
one quart of milk, one quart of boiling w^ater, one-half cup of 
rolled crackers, four tablespoonfuls of butter, cayenne pepper 



10 80 UPS. 

and salt. Pound the coral and other soft parts of the lobster 
to a paste, and simmer five minutes in the boiling water. Cut 
the rest of the lobster meat into dice and put into a saucepan 
with the cracker crumbs. Pour the red water over them and 
heat to a boil, when add pepper, salt, and butter. Simmer, 
covered, half an hour, taking care it does not scorch. Heat the 
milk with a pinch of soda in another vessel, and after the 
lobster is in the tureen pour this in boiling hot. Pass sliced 

lemon with it. 

Oyster Soup. 

Put one hundred oysters and liquor together into a sauce- 
pan; when the oysters begin to curl up, lift out of juice with 
strainer. When the liquor comes to a boil, add two large 
tablespoonfuls of butter rubbed together with one and a half 
tablespoonfuls of flour. Let this boil, put in a pinch of cay- 
enne pepper, half teaspoonful ground mace. Add one quart 
and one-half pint of milk, and stir until it comes to a boil, 
then drop in the oysters. Have in the soup tureen the whites 
of two eggs well beaten and three crackers rolled very fine. 

Oyster Stew. 

For each stew required place in your saucepan from twelve 

to eighteen fresh plump oysters, free from any of their liquor ; 

add a little salt, pepper, and a small lump of sweet butter; 

pour on a half cup of boiling water, set over a brisk fire, and 

bring to a boil ; then add half or three-fourths of a cup of rich 

sweet milk, bring to a boil again, take off immediately, and 

serve at once. 

Puree of Salmon. 

Open a small can of salmon and remove all bone, skin, oil, 
etc. Mash fine. Put over, in a double boiler, one quart of 



SOUPS. 11 

milk, one teaspoonful salt, one salt-spoon ground mace, one 
pinch of red pepper; add one spoonful of butter and one heap- 
ing tablespoonful of corn starch dissolved in a cup of cold 
water ; pour this slowly into boiling milk till it thickens. 
When smooth and thick, put in salmon. Let cook together 
five minutes and rub through a fine sieve. Put back and 
bring to a boil, and eat with crisp crackers (which are Bos- 
ton crackers, split, buttered, and browned in quick oven). 

Noodles for Soup. 

Beat one egg light, add a pinch of salt, and flour enough to 
make a stiff dough ; roll out in very thin sheets and roll up 
tightly. Shave off thin slices — put them in the soup and boil 
ten minutes. 

Egg Balls for Soup. 

Kub the yolks of three or four hard boiled eggs to a smooth 
paste, with a very little melted butter. To this add two raw 
ones, beaten light, and enough flour to hold the paste 
together. Make into balls with floured hands and set in a 
cold place until just before your soup comes off, when drop 
in carefully and boil one minute. 



FISH. 

Nearly all kinds of fish lose their flavor soon after they 
are taken from the water. 

Fish are fresh when the eyes are clear, the fins stiff, the gills 
red and hard to open. 

Before broiling fish rub the gridiron with fat to keep it 
from sticking. Place the inside of the fish down on the grid- 
iron, and nearly cook before turning ; butter the skin before 
turning towards the fire. 

Salt fish should be soaked in cold water oyer night before 

cooking. 

Boiled Codfish. 

Lay the fish in cold water, slightly salted, for half an hour 
before it is time to cook it, wipe dry and put in a fish kettle 
with water enough to cover it, in which has been dissolved a 
little salt. Let it boil quite briskly. A piece of cod weigh- 
ing three pounds will be cooked in half an hour from the time 
the water begins to boil. If cooked in a cloth it will require 
twice as long to boil. 

Have ready a sauce prepared thus : To one gill of boiling 

water add as much milk, and when it is scalding hot stir in 

two tablespoonfuls of butter, — a little at a time, that ifc may 

melt without oiling, — a tablespoonful of flour wet with cold 

water, and as this thickens, two beaten eggs. Season with 

salt and chopped parsley, and after one good boil take from the 

fire and add a dozen capers. Put the fish into a hot dish and 

pour sauce over it. 
2 



14 FISH. 

Baked Trout. 

Dry tish thoroughly inside and out. Sprinkle inside with 
pepper and salt and put in a small cup of butter; put "in 
dripping-pan on a rack. Just before taking from the oven 
pour over the fish a cup of sweet cream. Let it brown if 
necessary ; thicken the gravy with a little flour. 

Halibut Steak. 

Wash and wipe the steaks dry. Beat up two or three eggs, 
and roll out some Boston or other brittle crackers upon the 
kneading board, until they are as fine as dust. Dip each steak 
into beaten i^gg, then into the cracker crumbs (when you have 
salted the fish), and fry in hot fat — or you can broil the steak 
upon a buttered gridiron over a clear fire, first seasoning with 
salt and pepper. When done lay in a hot dish, butter well, 
and cover closely. 

Baked Shad. 

Clean, wash, and wipe the fish, which should be a large one. 
Make a stuffing of bread crumbs, mixed with butter, salt, and 
pepper, and sweet herbs ; stuff the shad and sew it up. Lay 
it in the baking pan, with a cupful of water to keep it from 
burning, and bake an hour, basting with butter and water 
until it is tender throughout and well browned. Take up 
and put in a hot dish and cover tightly, while] you boil up 
the gravy with a great spoonful of catsup, a tablespoonful of 
browned flour which has been wet with cold water, and the 
juice of a lemon. Garnish with sliced lemon and water- 
cresses. 

Baked Blue Fish. 

Grate or chop bread (without the crust), season with pepper, 
salt, and butter; wash the fish well and cover it with the bread 



FJSH. 15 

crumbs, put bits of butter over it, and bake in quick oven one 
hour, basting often. 

Boiled Shad. 

Clean, wash, and wipe the fish. Sprinkle with salt and wrap 
in clean linen cloth. Cover with salted water, and boil from 
half an hour to three-quarters, in proportion to the size. 
Serve on a hot dish with a boat of drawn butter. 

Drawn Butter. 

Stir two teaspoons of Hour into a heaping tablespoonful of 

butter ; stir into a cup of boiling milk, add salt to taste, and 

boil one minute. 

Fish Chowder. 

Take a fresh fish weighing eiglit pounds (cod is best), clean 
well, leaving on the skin, cut in slices one and one-half inches 
thick ; cut one and one-lmlf pounds of fat salt pork in thin 
slices, do the same with sixteen good-sized potatoes and two 
onions (if liked). Pat the pork in a kettle and fry out all 
the fat ; remove the pork, leaving the fat, to which add three 
pints of water; put in layer of fish, then one of potato and 
onion ; lay on the pork cut in strips, and sift over one table- 
spoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of pepper, and a little flour, 
then more fish, etc. Fill up with water until it covers the 
whole, put over a good fire, and boil twenty-five minutes. 
Have ready one quart of boiling milk and a dozen split crack- 
ers ; add these, and let all boil together five minutes. 

Escalloped Fish. 

Take cooked fish, put alternate layers of fish and cream 
sauce in a baking dish. Cover with fine cracker and pieces 
of butter. Bake one hour. 



16 FISH. 

Codfish Fried in Butter. 

Pnll codfish apart and soak over night. In the morning 
dry thoroughly, make a batter of two eggs and a tablespoon of 
flonr, roll the fish in it, and fry in butter. 

Picked-up Codfish. 

Put fish on the stove in cold water; keep warm, but do not 
boil until the fish is softened; remove bones and skin, shred 
finely and put it in a saucepan, with rich milk, in proportion 
of one pint of milk to one cup of fish ; let come to a boil and 
thicken with a teaspoonful of flour. Just before taking from 
the stove, stir in butter the size of an ^gg, and one egg well 
beaten. Season with pepper, and garnish with hard-boiled 
eggs. 

Codfish Balls. 

One pound of codfish picked fine, two pints raw potatoes cut 
in small pieces. Boil together in a little water. When done 
soft, drain and mash ; add three eggs, half cup butter, and 
pepper to taste. Make into balls, and fry in hot lard. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

Butter a dish that is about three inches deep, put in a layer 
of crackers and bread crumbs ; then a layer of oysters, free 
from their liquor, then bits of butter ; sprinkle with pepper 
and salt. Do this until you have used a quart of oysters — 
having tlie cracker crumbs on top. Over the whole pour a 
teacupful of sweet cream or rich milk, and bake three-quarters 
of an hour. 

Creamed Oysters. 

Fifty shell oysters, one quart sweet cream or ricli milk, but- 
ter, pepper and salt to taste. Put the cream and oysters in 



FISH. 17 

separate kettles to heat ; the oysters in their own liquor, and 
let them come to a boil. When sufficiently cooked, skim, take 
out of the liqaor, and put in a dish to keep warm. Put 
cream and liquor together, season to taste, and thicken with 
powdered cracker. When sufficiently thick, stir in the 
oysters, and serve. 

Oysters k la Poulette. 

Cook about three dozen good sized oysters, with pepper, 
nutmeg, and a little butter; drain on a cloth, and save the 
liquor. Put in a saucepan an ounce of butter with an ounce 
of flour ; cook a little, dilute with part of the oyster liquor 
and veal broth ; boil five minutes, add three Qgg yolks, two 
ounces of butter, lemon juice, and a pinch of red pepper ; stir, 
mix well without boiling, and press through a napkin into 
another saucepan ; stir in the oysters to heat, and add chopped 
parsley ; serve at once. 

Pickled Oysters. 

Take one hundred fresh oysters, scald them in their own 
liquor, then lay them on a plate to cool ; strain liquor, add 
one pint best white vinegar, one dozen blades of mace, two 
dozen whole cloves, two dozen whole black peppers, and one 
large red pepper broken into bits. Boil up fairly, and when 
oysters are nearly cold, pour over them scalding hot. Cover 
the jar in which they are, and put away in cool place. 

Deviled Clams. 

Chop fifty clams very fine, take two tomatoes, one onion, 
chopped equally fine ; a little parsley, thyme, and sweet 
marjoram, a little salt, pepper, and bread crumbs, adding 



18 FISH. 

the juice of the clams until the mixture is the consistency of 
sausage ; put it in the shells, Avith a lump of butter on each, 
cover with bread crumbs, and bake one half hour. 

Deviled Crabs. 

One cup crab meat, picked from shells of well-boiled crabs, 
two tablespoonfuis fine bread crumbs or rolled cracker, yolks 
of two hard-boiled eggs chopped, juice of a lemon, one-half 
teaspoonful of mustard, a little cayenne pepper and salt, one 
cup good drawn butter. Mix one spoonful crumbs with 
chopped crab meat, yolks, seasoning, drawn butter. Fill 
scallop shells — large clam shells Avill do — or small pate pans — 
with the mixture ; sift crumbs over top, heat to slight brown- 
ing in quick oven. 

Soft Shell Crabs. 

Fry in butter or lard. 

Deviled Lobster. 

One can preserved lobster, three tablespoonfuis butter, four 
tablespoonfuis vinegar, one-half teaspoonful made mustard, 
one good pinch cayenne pepper, boiled eggs for garnishing, 
salt. Empty contents lobster can into bowl one hour before 
using it. Mince evenly. Put vinegar, butter, and seasoning 
into saucepan ; when it simmers add lobster. Cook slowly, 
covered, one-half hour, stirring occasionall}^ Turn into deep 
dish, and garnish with slices of egg. 

Lobster Pates. 

Make puflf paste and spread on very deep pate pans. 
Bake it empty. Having boiled well two or three fine lobsters, 



FISH. 19 

extract all the meat and mince very small, mixing it with 
coral smoothly mashed and yolk of hard-boiled egg, grated. 
Season with a little salt, cayenne, and powdered mace or nut- 
meg, adding a little yellow lemon rind, grated. Moisten mix- 
ture well with cream, fresh butter, or salad oil. Put it into 
stewpan, add very little water, let stew till it just comes to a 
boil. Take off the fire, and the pates being baked, remove 
them from tin pans, place them on large dish, and fill them 
up to the top with the mixture. Similar pates may be made 
of prawns or crabs. 

Clam Fritters. 

Fifty small or twenty-five large clams ; dry them in napkin. 
If large, cut them in two ; put pint of flour into basin, add 
two well-beaten eggs, one-half pint milk, and nearly as much 
of clam liquor ; beat batter till free from lumps, then stir in 
clams. Put lard or beef drippings into frying pan, heat it to 
boiling, then drop in clam batter by spoonful. Fry brown on 
one side, then turn and fry on the other. 

To Boil Lobsters or Crabs. 

The lobster is in good season from September to June, and 
should be purchased alive and plunged into boiling water in 
which a good proportion of salt has been mixed. Continue to 
boil, according to size, from twenty minutes to an hour. Crabs 
should be boiled in the same manner, but a little more than 
half the time is necessary. 



POULTKY. 

To Clean Poultry. 

First singe over blazing paper or alcohol, then cut off the 
feet and tips of the wings, and the neck as far as it looks dark. 
Then, with the blade of a knife, take out all the pin feathers. 
Now turn the skin of the neck back, and with the forefinger 
and thumb draw out the crop and wind-pipe ; cut a slit in the 
lower part of the fowl, and draw out the intestines, being care- 
ful not to break the gall-bag, as it will spoil the flavor of the 
meat. It will be found near the upper part of the breastbone 
and attached to the liver. Now wash thoroughly in several 
waters and drain. If the poultry is at all strong, let it stand 
in water several hours with either charcoal or saleratus, after 
which rinse out well with clear water. 

Roast Turkey. 

Prepare as directed. Make a dressing of bread crumbs, and 
stuff, first the craw, andtie a string tightly about the neck to 
prevent the escape of the stuffing, and then the body of the 
turkey. Bake slowly four or five hours. Dredge with flour 
and baste often ; at first with butter and water, afterward 
with the gravy in the dripping-pan. Roast to a fine brown, 
and if it threatens to darken too rapidly, lay a sheet of 
white paper over it until the lower part is also done. Stew 
the chopped giblets in just enough water to cover them, 
and when the turkey is lifted from the pan, add these, with 
the water in which they were boiled, to the drippings: thicken 



22 POULTRY. 

with browned flour, boil up once, and pour into the gravy 
boat. Serve with cranberry sauce. 

Ragout of Turkey. 

Cut the cold turkey from the bones, and into bits an inch 
long. Put into a saucepan the gravy left from the roast, witli 
hot water to dilute it, should the quantity be small. Add a 
lump of butter the size of an egg, a teaspoonful of pungent 
sauce, a half teaspoonful of cloves, a large pinch of nutmeg, 
and a little salt. Let it boil, and put in the meat. Stew 
slowly for ten minutes, and stir in a tablespoonful of cran- 
berry sauce, and a tablespoonful of browned flour wet with 
cold water. Boil up once, and serve in a covered dish. 

Fricasseed Chicken. 

Joint the chicken, and jiut tliem in a kettle with enough 
cold water to cover them. Boil slowly until tender, season 
with pepper, salt, and a piece of butter; have I'eady soda 
biscuits, split them open and butter them; thicken the broth 
with flour, lay the chicken on platter with biscuit, and pour 
over the gravy. 

Smothered Chicken. 

Rub the inside of the chicken with fine salt and a little 
pepper; sprinkle flour over the outside, put it, with a bit of 
butter, size of a butternut, and about a pint of water, in the 
dripping-pan ; cover closely, and set in the oven, and cook 
one and one-half hours ; baste frequently, turn once or twice 
so as to cook evenly, then remove the cover, and brown 
lightly. Add one-half cup of cream and a teaspoonful of 
flour to the gravy in the pan, boil up and serve. 



POULTRY. 23 

Chicken Pates. 

Chop meat of cold chicken fine, and season well. Make 
large cupful rich drawn butter, and, while on fire, stir in 
two eggs, boiled hard, minced very fine, also a little chopped 
parsley, then chicken meat. Let almost boil. Have ready 
some pate-pans of good paste, baked quickly to light brown. 
Slip from pans while hot, fill with mixture, and set in oven 
to heat. Arrange upon dish and serve hot. 

Chicken Pie. 

Take two full-grown chickens, or more if small, disjoint 

them, cut backbone, etc., small as convenient. Boil them 

with few slices of salt pork in water enough to cover them; 

let boil quite tender, then take out breast bone. After they 

boil, and scum is taken ofi", put in a little onion cut very fine 

— not enough to taste distinctly, just enough to flavor a little ; 

rub some parsley very fine when dry, or cut fine when green — 

this gives pleasant flavor. Season well with pepper and salt, 

and few ounces good, fresh butter. When all is cooked well, 

have liquid enough to cover chicken, then beat two eggs, and 

stir in some sweet cream. Line five-quart pan with crust made 

like soda biscuit, only more shortening, put in chicken and 

liquid, cover Avith crust same as lining. Bake till crust is 

done. 

Boned Chicken. 

Boil a chicken in as little water as possible until meat will 
fall from bones ; remove all skin, chop together light and 
dark parts; season with pepper and salt. Boil down liquid 
in which chicken was boiled, then pour it on meat; place 
in tin, wrap tightly in cloth, press with heavy weight several 
hours. When served, cut in thin slices. 



24: POULTRY. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

One pint of rich milk; let it come to a boil; thicken 
with two tabiespoonfnls of butter and four of flour. Season 
with salt and pepper. The same should be very thick ; add 
a beaten egg just as it is taken from the fire, one-half 
pound of chicken minced very fine, and seasoned with a 
little salt, one teaspoonful chopped parsley, one teaspoonful 
of lemon juice, and one teaspoonful chopped celery. Stir 
into the hot sauce, mix thoroughly, and spread on a platter 
until perfectly cold. Shape croquettes, roll in the beaten 
white of an Qgg and cracker dust, and fry to a nice brown. 

Roast Goose. 

Wash out and wipe dry the body of the goose, and to the 
usual dressing of bread crumbs, etc., add a tablespoonful of 
minced onion, half as much powdered sage, and some bits 
of salt pork. Put into the drippiug-pan with two cupfuls of 
boiling water, and roast from two to three hours, basting often 
and very copiously. When half done, cover the breast with a 
stiflf paste of flour and water, removing when you are ready to 
brown it. Take the fat from the gravy and thicken with 
browned flour. Serve with apple sauce. 

Roast Duck. 

Clean, wash, and wipe very carefully. To the usual dress- 
ing add a little sage and a minced shallot. Stuff" and sew up 
as usual, reserving the giblets for the gravy. Tf they are tender 
they will roast in an hour and a half. Baste well, skim the 
gravy before putting in the giblets and thickening. The gib- 
lets should be stewed in a very little water, then chopped fine 
and added to the gravy in the dripping-pan with a chopped 



POULTRY. 25 

shallot and a spoonful of browned flour. Accompany with 
currant or grape jelly. 

To use up Cold Duck. 

Out the meat from the bones and lay it in a saucepan with a 
little minced cold ham ; pour on just enough water to cover 
it, and stir in a tablespoonful of butter. Cover and heat 
gradually until it is near boiling. Then add the gravy diluted 
with a little hot water, a great spoonful of catsup, one of 
Worcestershire sauce and one of currant jelly, and a table- 
spoonful of browned flour. Boil up once and serve. 

Stewed Pigeons. 

Clean and wash the pigeons thoroughly, and put in a pot 
with a cupful of water, to keep them from burning, and a 
tablespoonful of butter for each one. Shut the lid down 
tightly and cook slowly until they are a nice brown. Once in 
a while turn them, and see that each is well wet with the 
liquor. Take them out and cover in a warm place — a cullen- 
der set over a pot of hot water is best — while you make the 
gravy. Chop the giblets of the pigeon very small, with a little 
onion and parsley. Put into the gravy with pepper and salt, 
boil up, and thicken with browned flour. Return the pigeons 
to the pot, cover again tightly, and cook slowly until tender. 
If there should not be liquor enough in the pot to make the 
gravy, add boiling water before the giblets go in. 

Broiled Squabs. 

"Wash them (when they are cleaned) and dry carefully with 
a cloth; then split down the back and broil. Season with 
pepper and salt, and butter liberally in dishing them. 
3 



26 POULTRY. 

Roast Squabs. 

Lay them in rows in the oven, with a little water in the 
pan. Baste often with butter and water until they are half 
done, then with their own gravy. Thicken the gravy and boil 
up once ; then pour into a gravy boat. The pigeons should lie 
close together on the dish. 



MEATS. 

" Nearer as thej' came, a genial savour 
Of certain stews and roast meat s aud pilaus- 
Things which in liungrj'^ mortal's eyes find favour." 

Roast Beef. 

The best pieces for roasting are the porterhouse and rib 
pieces. Have your botcher remove the bone and skewer tlie 
meat into shape. Dredge with flour, salt, and pepper, and 
roast in a quick oven. Baste frequently, at first with salt and 
water, afterward with the drippings. If you like your meat 
rare, allow about a quarter of an hour to a pound. 

Boiled ham and corned beef should be left to cool in the 
water in which they are boiled. 

Roast Beef with Yorkshire Pudding. 

Set a piece of beef to roast on a grating or several sticks laid 
across a dripping-pan. Three-quarters of an hour before it is 
done mix the pudding and pour into the pan. Continue to 
roast the beef, letting the drippings fall on the pudding below. 

When done cut the pudding in squares and lay around the 
meat, oi' separately, if preferred. Pour oif fat in the di'ipping- 
pan before putting in the pudding. 

Receipt for Pudding. 

One pint of milk; one teaspoonful of salt; two cups of 
flour sifted with one heaping teaspoonful of Dr. Price's cream 
baking powder; four eggs beaten thoroughly; mix all together 
quickly, eggs, milk, and salt, then flour. 

Stewed Beef and Mushrooms. 

Take five pounds of beef (with as much tenderloin as pos- 
sible), put in a pan, and set in the oven fifteen minutes; then 



28 MEATS. 

take the meat and put it in a small porcelain kettle, and 
dredge with salt, pepper, a teaspoonfiil of mace, half of cloves, 
the same of allspice, and two spoonfuls of flour; now put in 
cold water enongh to cover the meat and stew slowly, keeping 
the steam in, three hours. Then put in half a tumbler of 
mushroom catsnp, and simmer half an honr longer. Serve 
with plenty of gravy. 

Cannelon of Beef. 

Chop the remains of cold roast beef, mix with a quai'ter of 
a pound of minced ham, season with pepper, salt, grated 
lemon-peel, and a little onion. Moisten with some of the 
gravy and bind with a' beaten Qgg or two. Make some pie- 
paste, or such as you would use for dumplings, roll into an 
oblong sheet, put the minced meat in the middle, and make 
the pastry into a long roll, enclosing the meat. Close at the 
ends with round caps of pastry, the edges pinched well together. 
Lay in a dripping-pan, the joined side of the roll downward, 
and bake to a good brown. 

Beefsteak. 

Wipe the steak dry and broil upon a buttered gridiron, turn- 
ing frequently whenever it begins to drip. When done, which 
should be in from twelve to fifteen minutes if the fire is clear 
and strong, lay upon a hot dish ; season with pepper, salt 
and butter. Put over it a hot cover, and wait five minutes 
before sending to the table, to draw the juice to the surface 
and allow the seasoning to penttrate the steak. 

Smothered Beef and Onions. 

Take a good-sized steak (round is the best) and six onions; 
remove bone from steak ; chop onions fine; pepper and salt* 



MEATS. 29 

place on steak and roll ; fasten firmly, and put in a frying- 
pan, with a little water ; cover closely, and steam about fifteen 
minutes. Then put a good-sized piece of butter in the pan, 
and cover again ; steam till done, having just enough water in 
the pan to keep it from burning. 

Pressed Corned Beef. 

Cook the meat until the bones and gristle can be removed. 
Place in an earthen dish, with enough of the liquor to cover 
the meat when placed under a weight. 

Savory Kidney Stew. 

One beef kidney, cut into small pieces ; put on in cold 
water, after removing all the fat; skim as it boils until all the 
scum is removed ; then add two bay leaves, four Avhole cloves, 
four pepper-corns, salt and pepper to taste, two tablespoon fuls 
of vinegar, two good-sized potatoes cut into small pieces, one- 
half of au onion ; boil until potatoes are soft and kidney ten- 
der ; piece of butter the size of an Qgg, browned ; a table- 
spoonful of flour, mixed in milk ; stir flour into melted butter; 
then add this to stew ; stir well and boil a few minutes. 
When ready to serve, add the juice of one-half lemon. 

Beef's Heart. 

Choose a fine fresh one ; wash well ; lay in salt and water 
an hour ; then wipe dry ; stufi" with a force-meat of bread- 
crumbs, minced salt pork, pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, 
with a little onion ; pack this in tightly ; sew the heart up in 
a coarse net, fitted well to it, and stew one hour and a half in 
weak broth. (A cupful can be taken from your soup stock.) 
At the end of this time take it out, undo the cloth, and return 
the heart to the saucepan, with enough gravy to half-cover it ; 



30 MEATS. 

add to this a tablespoon ful of butter, cut up, in as much 
flour; pepper and salt to taste; cover closely, and simmer half 
an hour, turning as it browns ; dish it; add the juice of half 
a lemon to the gravy, boil once, and pour over the heart. 

Roast Mutton. 

Wash the meat well, and dry with a cloth ; let your fire be 
clear and strong ; put the meat on, with a very little water, 
in the dripping-pan, and allow in roasting about twenty min- 
utes to the pound ; baste often, and if in danger of browning 
too fast, cover with a large sheet of white paper. Serve with 
currant jelly. 

Boiled Mutton. 

The best part for boiling is the leg. Put on in boiling 
water and cook, allowing about twenty minutes to the pound. 
Make a sauce by taking out a cupfal of liquor when it is 
nearly done, cooling it until you can take off the fat, then 
heating again in a saucepan, and stirring into it one table- 
spoonful of butter, two teaspoonfuls of flour ; wet up with 
cold water; stir five minutes, putting in a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley ; and, after another boil, take from the fire 
and add the juice of a lemon. When the liquor in which the 
meat is boiled is to be used for soup, salt slightly while cook- 
ing, sprinkling all over lightly with salt as soon as you take 
from the fire. 

Mutton Chops and Tomato Puree. 

Broil the chops, after trimming them neatly; rub, as soon 
as they leave the gridiron, with butter on both sides, pepper 
and salt, and cover for a few minutes in a hot dish. Make 
the puree by stewing a can of tomatoes until nearly dry, then 
seasoning and stirring in a tablespoonful of butter, rolled in 



MEATS. 31 

flour; simmer three minutes. Arninge the chops on their 
sides, overlapping each other, inside of the cnrve of a flat 
dish, and pour the puree within their enclosure. 

Roast Lamb. 

Lay in the dripping-pan, dash a small cupful of hoiUng 
water over it, and roast in a quick oven, allowing about fifteen 
minutes to a pound; baste often and freely, and after half an 
hour, cover with a sheet of thick paper. Five minutes before 
taking it up remove this, dredge with flour, and, as this 
browns, bring to a frotli with butter. Serve with mint sauce. 

Lamb Chops. 

Broil quickly over a clear fire; pepper and salt; butter on 
both sides. 

Stewed Lamb with Mushroom Sauce. 

Let your butcher take out the bones from the lower side of 
a shoulder of lamb, leaving in the shank. Fill the cavity 
thus left with a good force-meat of crumbs, chopped pork 
and sweet herbs, and sew the edges of meat together to hold 
it in. If you have no gravy ready, make about a pint of the 
lamb trimmings, it need not be strong. Put the lamb into a 
pot with some thin slices of salt pork laid in the bottom ; 
pour in the gravy, cover tightly, and stew gently one hour. 
Then turn the meat and cook twenty minutes longer. Lay 
the lamb on a hot dish, and butter it all over. Cover and 
keep warm over hot water while you make the sauce. Have 
ready half a can of mushrooms boiled and chopped. Strain 
the gravy left in the pot, add the mushrooms, and stew 
five minutes ; thicken with brown flour, boil up and pour 
over the lamb. 



32 MEATS. 

Roast Veal. 

Wash the veal and rub in a good handful of salt. Make a 
dressing in the following manner and stuff it. Soak about 
two quarts of stale bread in cold water, chop fine a half pound 
of fat pork, mix this with the bread, and one teaspoonful of 
pepper, one of salt, one of sweet marjoram, one half teaspoon- 
ful of sage, and one egg or two crackers. Take out all the 
bones possible, and cut slits to make cavities for the dressing, 
then stuff and skewer securely. Cover the veal with thin 
slices of salt pork, heat gradually, baste frequently — at first 
with salt and water, afterward with the gravy. A piece of 
veal weighing eight pounds should cook, at least, three hours. 

Veal Loaf. 

Three and one-half pounds of the leg, fat and lean, a small 
slice of salt pork, both chopped fine, six small crackers 
pounded, two eggs, butter size of an egg, one tablespoon each 
of pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; work all together in shape of a 
loaf, grate bread over the top, and also place bits of butter 
over it. Bake two hours in a dripping pan with a little water, 
basting often. Serve cold in slices. 

Veal Pot Pie. 

Take three pounds of veal, put in hot water enough to cover, 

cook slowly about three hours, or till tender; renew water as 

it boils away. Cook potatoes, either by themselves or with the 

meat, half an hour. Put meat, potatoes, and dumplings on 

platter and pour over gravy. Season with butter, pepper, 

and salt. 

Dumplings. 

One pint of flour, two rounded teaspoonfuls Dr. Price's 
cream baking powder, salt, sweet milk for a stiff batter. Drop 



MEATS. 33 

by spoonfuls into boiling soup fifteen minutes before serving. 
Do not raise the cover or let the soup cease to boil after they 
are added. 

Veal Scallop. 

Chop some cold roast or stewed veal very fine, put a layer 
in the bottom of a buttered pudding dish, and season with 
pepper and salt. Next have a layer of finely powdered crack- 
ers. Strew some bits of butter upon it and wet with a little 
milk ; then more veal seasoned as before, and another round of 
cracker crumbs, with butter and milk. When the dish is full 
wet well with gravy or broth, diluted with warm water. 
Spread over all a layer of cracker, seasoned with salt, wet into 
a paste with milk and bound with a beaten Qgg or two if the 
dish be large. Stick butter bits thickly over it ; invert a tin 
pan so as to cover all and keep in the steam, and bake — if small, 
half an hour; three-quarters will suffice for a large dish. Re- 
move the cover ten minutes before it is served, and brown. 

Cannelon of Veal. 

Two pounds of cold roast or stewed veal. The remains of 
a stewed and stufied fillet are good for this purpose, especially 
if underdone. One pound cold boiled ham. One large cup- 
full gravy. If you have none left over, make it of the refuse 
bits of the cold meat, such as fat, skin, etc. One small tea- 
spoonful finely minced lemon peel, the same of mace, and a 
tablespoon ful chopped parsley, salt and pepper. One teacup- 
ful bread crumbs, dry and fine. Yolks of three eggs beaten 
light, reserving the whites for glazing the cannelon when 
done. Chop the meat very well, season it and stir in the 
beaten yolks; wet with half the gravy, and mix in the bread 
crumbs. It should be just soft enough to handle without run- 



34 MEATS. 

ning into a shapeless mass. Flour your hands, and make it 
into a roll about three times as long as it is broad. Flour the 
outside well and lay in a greased baking pan. Cover and set 
in the oven until it- is smoking hot, when remove the cover 
and brown quickly. Draw to the oven-door and brush over 
witli white of Qgg, shut the door for one minute to set this, 
and transfer the cannelon, by the help of a cake-turner or a 
wooden paddle, to a hot dish. Lay three-cornered pieces of 
fried bread close about it, and pour a rich gravy over all. 
You can make a really elegant dish of this by adding to the 
gravy a half-pint of sliced mushrooms, and stewing them in 
it until they are tender and savory, then pouring them over 
the rouleau of meat. 

Veal Cutlets. 
Two pounds veal cutlet nicely trimmed. One small onion, 
sliced. Four tablespoonfuls strained tomato sauce. Enough 
butter or clear dripping to fry the cutlets. Salt and pepper, 
with a bunch of sweet herbs. Half a cup gravy. Fry the 
cutlets to alight brown, but not crisp; take them out and 
put into a covered saucepan. Have ready the gravy in 
another, with the tomato sauce stirred into it. Fry the onion 
in the fat from which you have taken the cutlets and add with 
the fat to the gravy. Pour all over the cutlets and simmer, 
covered, twenty minutes. 

Veal Croquettes. 

Mince veal fine ; mix one-half cup of milk with one tea- 
spoonful of flour, a piece of butter the size of an Qgg', cook 
until it thickens; stir into the meat; roll into balls; dip in 
Qgg^ with a little milk stirred in ; roll in browned bread 
crumbs; fry in hot lard. 



MEATS. 35 

Brown Fricassee of Sweetbreads. 

Four sweetbreads, two cups brown veal gravy, strong and 
well seasoned, four tablespoonfuls of butter, pinch of mace, 
and twice as much cloves, browned flour for thickening, one 
teaspoonful chopped onion, stewed in and then strained out of 
the gravy. Wash the sweetbreads carefully in warm water, 
removing every bit of skin and gristle. Lay them in a sauce- 
pan and cover with boiling Ayater. Boil them ten minutes 
hard, turn off the hot water, and plunge them instantly into 
very cold, in which yon have dissolved a little salt. Leave 
them in this about fifteen minutes, or until they are cool, 
white, and firm ; cut each crosswise into slices nearly half an 
inch thick, have ready the butter in the frying pan, and fry 
the slices, turning frequently, until they are a good brown — 
but do not dry them up. Drain off the fat through a cullen-* 
der, lay the sliced sweetbreads within a saucepan, pour the hot 
brown gravy, already seasoned, over them, cover closely, and 
simmer, not boil, fifteen minutes longer. 

Sweetbreads. 

Scald iu salted water; remove stringy parts; put in cold 
water five or ten minutes; drain in towel; dip in Qgg and 
bread or cracker crumbs, fry in butter, or boil them pk,in. 

Roast Leg of Pork. 

One weighing about seven pounds is enough — even for a 
large family. Score the skin in parallel lines running from 
side to side ; put it down to roast with a very little water in 
the pan ; heat gradually, until the fat begins ooze from the 
meat, when quicken the fire; baste only with its own gravy, 
and do this often, that the skin may not be hard and tough. 



36 MEATS. 

When done take it up, skim the gravy thoroughly, add a little 
boiling water, thicken with brown flour, add pepper, salt, and 
the juice of half a lemon. Serve with apple sauce. 

Roast Spare Rib. 

When first put down to the fire cover with a greased paper, 
until it is half done ; remove it then and dredge with flour. A 
few minutes later, baste once with butter and afterward with 
its own gravy. This is necessary, the spare-rib being a very 
dry piece. Just before you take it ujt strew over the surface 
fine bread crumbs, seasoned with powdered sage, pepper, and 
salt. Let it cook from five to ten minutes and baste once 
more with butter ; skim the gravy, add a half cupful of hot 
water, and thicken with brown flour. 

Boiled Ham. 

Soak in cold water over night. Next morning wash hard 
with a coarse cloth or brash, and put on to boil with plenty 
of cold water. Allow a quarter of an hour to each pound in 
cooking, and do not boil too fast. Do not remove the skin 
until cold ; it will come ofi" easily then, and the juices are 
better preserved than when it is stripped hot. 

Ham and Eggs. 

Cut your slices of ham of a uniform size and shape ; fry 
quickly, and take them out of the pan as soon as they are 
done. Have the eggs, and drop them, one at a time, in the 
hissing fsit ; have a large pan for the purpose, that they may 
not run together. In three minutes they will be done. The 
meat should be kept hot, and when the eggs are ready lay one 
on each slice of ham, which should have been cut the proper 
size for this. 



GAME. 

Haunch of Venison. 

Wash thoroughly with luke warm water and vinegar; then 
rub well with butter or lard to soften the skin ; cover it on the 
top and sides with a thick paste of flour and water nearly half 
an inch thick. Lay upon this a large sheet of thin white 
wrapping paper, well buttered, and above this thick foolscap. 
Keep all in place by greased pack thread ; then put down to 
roast with a little water in the dripping pan. Let the fire be 
steady and strong. Pour a few tablespoonsful of butter and 
water over the meat now and then, to keep the paper from 
scorching. If the' haunch is large, it will take at least five 
hours to roast. About half an hour before you take it up, 
remove the paper and paste, and test with a skewer in the 
thickest part. If it goes in readily close the oven and let it 
brown for half an hour. Baste three or four times with but- 
ter and water; at last dredge with flour, and rub over with 
butter to make a froth. Take up and put on a hot dish. 
Skim the gravy left in the pan, strain and thicken with 
browned flour; add two teaspoonfuls of currant jelly, and 
pepper and salt. Boil up for an instant and pour into a gravy- 
boat. Aliuays serve currant jelly with venison. 

Fricasseed Rabbit. 

Clean two young rabbits, and cut into joints, and soak in 
salt and water one hour. Put into a sauce-pan with a pint of 
cold water, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion finely chopped, a 
4 



38 GAME. 

pinch of mace, one of nutmeg, pepper, and a half pound of 
salt pork cut into strips. Cover and ^tew until tender. Take 
out the rabbits and place in a dish where they will keep warm. 
Add to the gravy a cup of rich milk, two well beaten-eggs 
stirred in a little at a time, and a tablespoonful of butter. 
Boil up once, when you have thickened with flour wet in cold 
milk, and take the saucepan from the fire. Squeeze in the 
juice of a lemon stirring all the while, and j^our over the rab- 
bits. Do not cook the head or neck. 

Grouse Roasted with Bacon. 

Clean, trim and stuff as usual. Cover the entire bird with 
bacon binding all with buttered pack-thread. Eoast three- 
quarters of an hour, basting with butter and water three times, 
then with the dripping. When quite done, dish with the bacon 
laid about the bird. Skim the gravy, thicken with browned 
flour, season with pepper and the juice of a lemon, and boil 
up once. 

Quails are roasted in the same way. 

Wild Pigeon (Stewed). 

Clean and wash very carefully, then lay in salt water for an 
hour. Einse the inside with so^la water, shaking it about 
well ; wash out with clear water, and stuff with force-meat 
made of bread-crumbs and chopped salt pork, seasoned with 
pepper. Sew up the pigeons and put on to stew in enough 
cold water to cover them, and allow to each a fair slice of fat 
bacon cut into narrow strips. Season with pepper and a pinch 
of nutmeg ; take from the gravy and lay in a covered dish to 
keep warm. Strain the gravy, add the juice of a lemon and 



GAME. 39 

a tablespoonful of currant jelly, thickened with browned flour. 
Boil up and pour over the pigeons. 

Partridge. 

In dressing partridges, skin instead of picking them. Put 
in water with two sage leaves and a little onion. When 
cooked done, add cream, butter, pepper and salt, and thicken 
the gravy with a little corn starch. 



SAUCES FOR MEAT AND FISH. 

" Hunger is the best sauce." 

Bread Sauce. 

Quarter and boil one large onion with some black peppers 
and milk, till onion is quite a pulp. Pour milk strained on 
grated white stale bread, and cover it. In an hour put it into a 
saucepan, with a good piece of butter mixed with a little 
flour; boil the whole up together and serve. 

Bread Sauce for Partridges or Grouse. 

One cup of stale bread crumbs, one onion, two ounces 
butter, pepper and salt, a little mace. Cut the onion fine and 
boil it in milk till quite soft; then strain the milk on to the 
stale bread crumbs and let it stand an hour. Put it in a sauce- 
pan with the boiled onion,, pepper, salt and mace. Give it a 
boil, and serve in sauce tureen. This sauce can also be used 
for grouse, and is very nice. Eoast partridges are nice served 
with bread crumbs, fried brown in butter, with cranberry or 
currant jelly laid beside them in the platter. 

Caper Sauce. 

Two tablespoonfuls butter, one tablespoonful flour; mix 
well ; pour on boihng water till it thickens ; add one hard- 
boiled egg chopped fine, and two tablespoonfuls capers. 



42 SA UGE8 FOR MEAT AND FISH. 

Drawn Butter. 

One half cnp butter, two tablespoonfuls flour, rubbed thor- 
oughly together, then stir into pint boiling water; little salt; 
parsley if wished. 

Gravy for Roast Meats. 

After taking out meat, j^our off fat; add water, season and 
thicken with flour. 

Gravy for Turkey. 

Boil giblets very tender; chop fine ; then take liquor in 
which they are boiled, thicken with flour; season with salt, 
pepper, and a little butter ; add giblets and dripping in which 
turkey was roasted. 

Horse-radish Sauce. 

One dessertspoonful of olive oil, same quantity of powdered 
mustard, one tablespoonf ul of vinegar, one of grated horse- 
radish and one teaspoonful of salt. 

Oysters Sauce. 

One pint of oysters, two tablespoonfuls of butter rolled well 
in flour, one cup of milk. Heat the oyster liquor and when 
it boils skim and put in the oysters. When they boil stir in 
the butter and flour. Boil five minutes and put with the 
milk which has been heated in another vessel. Stir up well 
and pour out. 

Sauce for Boiled Cod and other kinds of Fish. 

To one gill boiling water add as much milk; &tir into this 
while boiling two tablespoonfuls butter gradually, one table- 



SA UCES FOR MEAT ANB FISH. 43 

spoonful flour wet up with cold water; as it thickens, the 
chopped yolk one boiled Qgg and one raw Qgg beaten light. 
Take directly from fire, season with pepper, salt, a little 
chopped parsley and juice one lemon, and set covered in 
boiling water (but not over fire) five minutes, stirring occas- 
ionally. Pour part of sauce over fish when dished ; the rest 
in a boat. Serve mashed potatoes with it. 

Sauce for Salmon and other Fish. 

One cupful milk heated to a boil and thickened with table- 
spoonful corn starch previously wet up with cold water, the 
liquor from the salmon, one gravyspoonful butter, one raw 
Qgg beaten light, juice one-half lemon, mace, and cayenne 
pepper to taste. Add the egg to thickened milk when you 
have stirred in butter and liquor; take from fire, season and 
let stand in hot water three minutes, covered. Lastly put in 
lemon juice and turn out immediately. Pour it all over and 
around the salmon. 

Tomato Sauce. 

Pare, slice and stew tomatoes for twenty minutes, strain and 
rub through a sieve, leaving hard and tough parts behind. 
Put into a saucepan with a little minced onion, parsley, 
pepper, salt and sugar. Bring to boil ; stir in good spoonful 
butter rolled in flour. Boil up and serve. 

Mint Sauce. 

Mix one tablespoonful Avhite sugar to one-half teacupful 
good vinegar ; add mint chopped fine ; one-half teaspoonful 
salt. Serve with roast lamb or mutton. 



44 SA nCES FOR ME A T AND FISH. 

Cranberry Jelly. 

Take one quart cranberries, put in kettle, add one cup 
water, let come to a boil and then add two cups sugar ; let 
boil ten minutes and then strain in moulds for use. 

Apple Sauce. 

Pare^ core, and slice tart apples, and stew in water enough 
to cover them until they break to pieces. Beat to a pulp 
with a good lump of butter and plenty of sugar. Eat cold. 

Dressing for Fowls. 

One quart bread crumbs which have been chopped, not 
soaked ; add one slice of salt pork, chopped to a cream ; sea- 
son with salt, pepper, sage, and a generous supply of butter ; 
beat in one or two eggs. The best authorities say that dress- 
ins: is the finest when it crumbles as the fowl is cut. 



'& 



Oyster Dressing. 

One quart oysters, add bread crumbs till you can mould 
like a loaf of bread, butter size of two eggs, pepper, salt and 
sage to taste. 



EGGS. 

" O, egg I within thine oval shell, 
What palate-tickling joj^s do dwell. ' 

Boiled Eggs. 

Put them on in cold water, and let them come to a boil 
which will be in about ten minutes. The inside white and 
yolk will then be of the consistency of custard. 

Poached Eggs. 

Strain some water into a frying-pan, which must be also 
perfectly clean. When the water boils break the eggs sepa- 
rately into a saucer. Take the pan off and slip the eggs one 
by one carefully upon the surface. When all are in put back 
on the fire and boil gently three minutes. Take out with a 
perforated skimmer, drain and lay upon slices of toasted 
bread, well buttered, and in a hot dish. Add pepper and 
salt, and garnish with parsley. 

Baked Eggs. 

Have a good piece of butter in the frying pan, and when it 
is hot, drop in the eggs, taking care that each is whole. 
Sprinkle with pepper and salt. Put into the oven and bake 
until the whites are well set. Serve very hot, with buttered 
toast. 

Scrambled Eggs. 

Put a good piece of butter in a frying-pan, and when it is 
hot drop in the eggs, which should be broken whole into a bowl. 



46 EGGS. 

Stir in with them a little chopped parsley, some pepper and 
salt, and keep stirring to and fro, up and down, for three 
minutes. Turn out at once into a hot dish and eat without 
delay. 

Creamed Eggs. 

Boil six eggs twenty minutes. Make one pint of cream 
sauce. Have six slices of toast on a hot dish. Put a layer of 
sauce on each slice of toast, then the whites of the eggs cut 
in strips; and over this the yolks rubbed through a sieve. 
Place in the oven for about three minutes. Garnish with 
parsley and serve. 

Scalloped Eggs. 

Make a force-meat of chopped or ground ham, fine bread 
crumbs, pepper, salt and some melted butter. Moisten with 
milk to a soft paste, and half fill some pate pans with the mix- 
ture. Break an ^^g carefully upon the top of each, dust with 
pepper and salt, and sift some finely powdered cracker over all. 
Set in the oven and bake until the eggs are well set — about 
eight minutes. Eat hot. 

Egg Basket. 

Make these for breakfast the day after you have had roast 
chicken, duck, or turkey for dinner. Boil six eggs hard. Cut 
neatly in half and extract the yolks. Eub these to a paste 
with some melted butter, pepper and salt and set aside. Pound 
the minced meat of the cold fowl fine in the same manner 
and mix with the egg paste, moistening with melted butter as 
you proceed, or with a little gravy if you have it to spare. 
Cut off a slice from the bottoms of the hollowed whites of the 
Qgg, to make them stand, fill with the paste, arrange close to- 



EGGS. 47 

gether on a flat dish, and pour over tliem the gravy left from 
yesterday^s roast, heated boiling hot, and mellowed by a few 
spoonfuls of cream or rich milk. 

Omelet. 

Five eggs, beaten separately, the whites to a stiff froth that 
will stand alone, the yolks to a smooth, thick batter. Add to the 
yolks five tablespoonfuls of milk, pepper and salt, lastly stir in 
the whites lightly. Have ready in a hot frying pan, a good lump 
of butter. When it hisses, pour in your mixture gently and 
cook carefully on top of the stove for about ten minutes. 
When well set put in the oven to brown — fold it and serve 
hot. 



SALADS. 

The Spanish proverb says that, '' to make a perfect salad, 
there should be a miser for oil, a spendthrift for vinegar, a 
wise man for salt, and a madcap to stir the ingredients up 
and mix them well together." 

Salad Dressing. 

The yolks of six eggs beaten strongly ; add three table- 
spoonfuls of dry mustard, and mix; one teaspoonful salt 
(celery salt if you like it), a pinch of cayenne pepper, one-half 
pint of Price's Imperial olive oil, or half oil and half butter, 
two-thirds of a pint of vinegar. Mix all these thoroughly, 
and put dish in boiling water, and stir until it is as thick 
as thick cream. This makes nearly a quart of dressing, and 
will keep a long time. 

Lobster Salad. 

Boil two live lobsters about thirty minutes. Break the 
shells and take out the solid meat, cut into cubes, place in a 
deep dish, and season with salt, pepper. Price's Imperial olive 
oil, and vinegar. Have the hearts from four heads of lettuce 
in the salad bowl ; turn in the lobster, and cover with mayon- 
naise dressing. Garnish the dish with pitted olives and hard- 
boiled eggs. 

Lobster Salad Without Oil. 

One fine lobster boiled thoroughly, and carefully picked out. 
Cut into small pieces, put in a broad dish, and sprinkle with 



50 SALADS. 

a teaspoonful of salt and pepper. Set aside in a cold place. 
Dressing — two large tablespoonfuls of butter, one and one- 
half tablespoonfuls of flour or corn starch, one pint of boiling 
water. Stir the flour, previously wet, into the boiling water; 
let it boil two minutes, and add butter. Boil one minute 
longer and set aside to cool. In the meantime, mix well and 
smoothly one large tablespoonful of mustard, one teaspoon- 
ful of powdered sugar, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one table- 
spoonful of boiling water, and one small cup of vinegar. Beat 
this up well, then add to the drawn butter, beat to a cream 
and pour over the lobster. Garnish with celery tops and 
hard-boiled eggs. 

Chicken Salad. 

Take equal parts of cold boiled chicken (or turkey) and 
celery. Mince the meat well. Remove every scrap of fat, 
gristle, and skin ; cut the celery into bits half an inch long, 
mix well together and pour over mayonnaise dressing. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Yolks of four hard-boiled eggs; one teacup of Price's Impe- 
rial olive oil, rubbed in after the eggs are powdered, yolks of 
two raw eggs mixed in, one teaspoonful of French mustard 
dissolved in vinegar, cayenne pepper, and salt ; put them in 
chicken and dressing. Juice of one lemon. This amount is 
for one chicken. 

Potato Salad. 

Cut six large cold potatoes in squares, put in a dish and 
season as follows : two tablespoonfuls of Price's Imperial olive 
oil, one-half teaspoonful mustard, pepper, salt, and celery 
salt; whip to smooth paste and add slowly five teaspoonfuls 



SALAPS, 51 

of vinegar; wlien mixed pour on the salad, and serve. A little 
chopped onion can be mixed in if desired, and also young let- 
tuce leaves, cut fine. 

Boiled Dressing for Cabbage Salad. 

One-balf cup of vinegar and two tablespoonfuls sugar boiled 
together; add one-half saltspoonful of pepper, one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt, one-balf teaspoonful of dry mustard, one 
tablespoonful of butter and one tablespoon ful of flour 
creamed together. Mix all together until smooth, and pour 
over the beaten yolk of one egg. Pour this over tbinly shaved 
cabbage while hot. 



VEGETABLES. 

" The onion strong, the parsnip sweet, 
The twining bean, the ruddy beet ; 
Yea, all the garden brings to light 
Speak it a landscape of delight.'" 

Have them as fresh as possible. Stale and withered ones 
are unwholesome. Pick over and wash thoroughly in cold 
water. It is well to lay them in cold water for some time be- 
fore cooking. Be sure they are thoroughly done, drain well, 
and serve hot. 

Boiled Potatoes. 

Boil in cold water with a pinch of salt. Cook steadily until 
a fork will pierce easily to the heart of the largest. Then 
pour off every drop of water, sprinkle with salt, and set back 
on the range, a little to one side, with the lid off. Let them 
dry a few minutes and serve in uncovered dish. 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Pare and let them lie in cold salted water for an hour or 
two. Boil until done, drain thoroughly, sprinkle with salt, 
and mash them in the pot with potato-beetle, working in a 
tablespoonful of butter and enough milk to make the paste 
about the consistency of soft dough. Form into a mound with 
wooden spoon, and leave dots of pepper on the surface. 

Baked Chopped Potatoes. 

For a three-quart pudding dish pare twenty-five medium- 
sized potatoes. Chop, not too fine, place in dish and stir in 



54 VEGETABLES. 

salt and pepper, and fill the dish up with milk. Bake one 
hour and a half in a hot oven. 

Escalloped Potato. 

Cover the bottom of a baking dish with a layer of sliced, 
cold boiled potatoes ; cover with finely powdered cracker, add- 
ing pepper, salt, and pieces of butter ; fill the dish with layers 
of potato and cracker; when full pour over the top layer a 
cupful of sweet cream and bake one hour. 

Potato Puff. 

Take two cupfuls of cold mashed potato, and stir into it 
two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, beating to a cream. Then 
add two eggs, beaten very light, and a teacupful of cream or 
milk, salting to taste. Beat all well, pour into a deep dish, 
and bake in a quick oven until nicely browned. 

Potato Croquettes. 

Season cold mashed potatoes with salt, pepper, and butter; 
moisten with sweet milk or cream ; mix thoroughly with this 
one beaten egg, and make into small rolls, being careful to 
have the surface perfectly smooth. Fry a rich golden brown 
in hot lard. 

Warmed-up Potatoes. 

Put into a saucepan two tablespoonfuls of butter, a little 
parsley chopped small, salt and pepper to taste. Stir up well 
until hot, add a small cup of cream or rich milk, thicken with 
a teaspoonful of flour, and stir until it boils. Chop some cold 
boiled potatoes, put into the mixture, and boil up once before 
servinsr. 



VEGETABLES. 55 

Sweet Potatoes. 

Boil until they are nearly done, when peel and bake brown, 
basting with butter several times, but draining dry before they 
go to the table. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes. 

Put a piece of butter the size of an egg in frying-pan with 
one small, finely chopped onion. When this is browned put 
in slices of cold boiled potatoes; turn carefully until brown, 
add a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley, salt and pejDper. 

Saratoga Fried Potatoes. 

Wash the potatoes clean, pare and slice very thin, throw 
into cold water long enough to take out some of the starch, 
then wipe dry and put into boiling lard, a few pieces at a time. 
As soon as they are of a clear golden brown, skim out and 
drain in a cullender or sieve. 

Salsify or Oyster Plant. 

Scrape the roots, dropping into cold water as soon as pos- 
sible; exposure to the air blackens them. Cut in pieces an 
inch long, put in a saucepan with hot water enough to cover 
them, and stew until tender. Turn off the water, and add a 
cupful of milk. Stew about ten minutes after this begins to 
boil, put in a great lump of butter, cut into bits and roll in 
flour; pepper and salt to taste. 

Egg Plant. 

Slice the egg plant half an inch thick ; pare and lay in salt 
water for an hour or more. Wipe dry, dip in beaten egg, then 
in cracker crumbs, and fry in hot lard until well done and 
nicely browned. 



56 VEGETABLES. 

Miss F.'s Egg Plant. 

Select one that is firm and fresh. Peel it with a sharp knife, 
so that the smooth outline is not broken. If large, the plant 
is then cut into quarters ; if medium in size, into halves. Let 
it lie for half an hour in salt water. Then put it into boiling 
water with a little salt. It is cooked enough when it can be 
easily pierced with a straw. While the Qgg plant is boiling, 
prepare the onion, which is to give its slight pungency to the 
Qgg plant. Cut one medium sized onion into very small 
pieces, and cover it with salt water. In ten minutes pour off 
the water, and put the chopped onion into a hot skillet with 
a little butter and fry it brown. It is absolutely essential that 
the onion should be thoroughly cooked and brown. Drain 
the Qgg plant in a cullender, and put it in a large earthenware 
bowl. With a silver fork stir it until it is broken up, but do 
not really mash it, or it will not be light when finished. Mix 
with the Qgg plant an amount equal in bulk to itself of rolled 
bread crumbs 5 then add the browned onion and one well beaten 
Qgg ; season with salt, pepper, and a dessertspoonful of butter. 
Put this all into a well buttered earthen dish, and bake until 
nicely browned, but not until dried, as the ingredients, with 
the exception of the Qgg, were all cooked before being put into 
the oven. Serve hot in the dish in which it was baked. It 
is excellent if warmed again the next day. — Good Housekeeping. 

Stewed Tomatoes. 

Peel and cut them up, extracting the cores or hard part of 
the stem end, and stew half an hour. Add salt and pepper 
to taste, a teaspoonful of sugar, and a tablespoonful of butter. 
Stew gently fifteen minutes longer, and serve. 



VEGETABLES, 57 

Escalloped Tomatoes. 

Place in a baking dish a layer of bread crumbs, then a layer 
of peeled sliced tomatoes with bits of butter, a little salt and 
pepper, then bread crumbs, tomatoes, etc., until the dish is 
full, having the bread crumbs on top. 

Asparagus. 

Cut stalks of equal length, and tie in bundles ; boil in salted 
water for twenty minutes, have ready slices of nicely toasted 
bread; dip these in the asparagus liquor, butter them, and lay 
on a hot dish ; drain the asparagus, untie, and arrange on 
toast ; pour over all hot cream, seasoned with butter, or dra\vn 
butter can be used instead of the cream. 

Stewed Celery. 

Wash and scrape the tender white part of two heads of 
celery, cut in pieces two inches long, cover with boiling water, 
and simmer gently half an hour. Drain, if necessary, and add 
rich milk or cream, thicken slightly with corn starch, season 
well with butter, pepper, and salt. 

Parsnips. 

Scrape off the skin, and cut in thick, lengthwise slices. 
Dredge with flour, and fry in hot lard or dripping, turning 
when one side is brown. Drain off every drop of fat, add salt 
and pepper, and serve hot. 

String Beans. 

Out off each end, and remove strings. Put in boiling water, 
and cook at least two hours, or until tender. If necessary, 
drain ; then add butter, pepper, and salt. 



58 VEGETABLES, 

Pease. 

Shell, and put in boiling water, and cook until tender. 
Drain, and season with salt, pepper, and butter. If liked, add 
a cup of sweet cream. 

Succotash. 

This is made of green corn and lima beans. Have a third 
more corn than beans, when the corn has been cut from the 
cobs, and the beans shelled. An hour and a half before dinner 
put the cobs and beans into cold water to boil ; after one hour 
take out the cobs and put in the corn, and boil half an hour. 
iVdd butter, pepper, and salt, and serve. 

Boston Baked Beans. 

To one pint of dry beans allow a full half-pound of pork, a 
large spoonful each of molasses and salt, one teaspoonful each 
of sugar and mustard. Soak the beans overnight; in the 
morning put them in fresh water, and cook slowly until tender, 
but do not let them break to pieces. Skim out of this 
water into a quart bean pot, mix molasses, sugar, etc., to- 
gether in hot water enough to fill the pot ; cut the rind of 
pork in squares, and put in with the beans. As the water 
cooks away, fill the pot with more, adding the last water 
within three hours of serving. Cook slowly from eight to 
ten hours or longer. 

Baked Macaroni. 

Break half a pound of pipe macaroni in pieces an inch long, 
and put in a saucepan of boiling water, slightly salted. Stew 
gently twenty minutes. It should be soft, but not broken or 



VEGETABLES. 59 

split. Drain well, and put a layer in the bottom of pudding 
dish ; upon this grate some mild cheese and scatter over it 
bits of butter. Then more macaroni and cheese until the 
dish is full, having macaroni at the top ; butter well, 
without the cheese. Add a small cup of cream or milk, and 
a very little salt. Bake, covered, half an hour ; then brown 
nicely, and serve in the bake dish. 

Baked Macaroni and Tomatoes. 

Break half a pound of macaroni in pieces half an inch 
long, and boil about twenty minutes in boiling water, 
slightly salted. Stew from six to eight tomatoes till soft, 
add butter, pepper, and salt. Cover the bottom of a baking 
dish (well buttered) with a layer of macaroni, then tomatoes, 
until the dish is full, having the macaroni on top. Put 
pieces of butter over it, and bake in a quick oven about 
thirty minutes. 

Rice Croquettes. 

One cup of cold boiled rice, one teaspoonful of sugar and 
half as much salt, one teaspoonful melted butter, one Qgg 
beaten light, enough milk to make the rice into stiff paste. 
Sweet lard for frying. Work rice, butter, egg, etc., into 
an adhesive paste, beating each ingredient thoroughly into 
the mixture. Flour your hands and make the rice into 
oval balls. Dip each in beaten Qgg, then in flour or cracker 
dust, and fry in boiling lard, a few at a time, turning each 
with great care. When the croquettes are of a fine yellow 
brown, take out with a wire spoon, and lay within a 
heated cullender to drain off every drop of fat. Serve hot, 
with sprigs of parsley laid about them, in an uncovered dish. 



60 VEGETABLES. 

Boiled Rice. 

Pick over carefully, and wash in two waters, letting it stand 
in the last until you are ready to boil it. Have ready some 
boiling water, slightly salted, and put in the rice. Boil it 
twenty minutes, and do not put a spoon in it, but shake up 
hard and often, holding the cover on with the other hand. 
When done, drain off the water, and set the saucepan, uncov- 
ered, upon the range — where the rice will dry, not burn — five 
minutes. Eat with boiled mutton or fowls. 



BREAD. 

" Here is bread, which strengthens man''s heart, and therefore is called the staff of life." 

In making bread during cold weather, the fionr sliould be 
thorouglily warmed before mixing. Care should be taken to 
have the yeast fresh, and to keep the dough from getting 
chilled while rising. 

To Cut Warm Bread. 

Heat a thin-bladed knife on the stove or in boiling water. 

Bread. 

To four quarts of water put one Fleischmann & Co. com- 
pressed yeast cake ; make a sponge and let it stand over night 
in a moderately warm place to rise. In the morning add one 
tablespoon ful of salt ; put in flour, and mix as soft as it can 
be handled. Knead the bread faithfully and from all sides 
until your hands will not adhere to the dough. Set the 
dough to rise where it will be kept in an even temperature. 
When light divide into as many loaves as you wish, and put 
into well-greased pans for the final rising. Set the pans in a 
warm place for an hour longer, with a cloth thrown over 
them. Then bake. The oven should not be too hot. This 
makes seven loaves. 

Fine Bread. 

Take a scant quart of water, as warm as milk from the 
cow; dissolve in it half a cake of Fleischmann's compressed 
yeast and a teaspoonful of salt. Have ready warmed two 



62 BREAD. 

quarts of flour, full measure. Make a hole in the centre of 
the flour ; see that the yeast is thoroughly dissolved in the 
water ; pour it into the hole, working the flour gradually into 
it with the right hand. When mixed, this will be a soft 
dough. If too soft to work, sprinkle a little flour from a 
dredger and knead it, but always use as little as possible to 
knead with. At first, to a novice, it may seem sticky and 
unmanageable, but by degrees, always working from the sides 
toward the centre, the rough mass will become smooth and no 
longer sticky to the hands or bowl. When the dough is quite 
smooth and does not stick, let it rise. It will take perhaps 
two hours in a warm spot — eighty-five degrees to ninety de- 
grees will be best. When it is quite light — that is, about 
double the bulk — work it over thoroughly. Set it to rise 
again before putting it in the pans, if you have time ; if not, 
divide the dough into two and put it in well-buttered pans. 
Let it rise. It will take about an hour in mild weather, but 
never judge entirely by time; look to the bulk; if it is rather 
less than twice the size in an hour it is ready ; if not, wait 
till it swells more. Some like a very light, porous bread ; 
they may then let the loaf rise to more than double the bulk. 

Graham Bread. 

Make a sponge of one cup of warm water and one-half 
a cake of Fleischmann & Co.'s compressed yeast dissolved in 
it, thickened with flour. Let it rise over night, or until very 
light. Then add one-half cup of molasses, with one tea- 
spoonful of soda dissolved in it, one teaspoonful of salt, one- 
half cup of milk, and graham flour enough to make a stiff 
batter; stir briskly, put in the oven at once, and bake slowly 
one hour and a half. 



BREAD, 63 

Parker House Rolls. 

One pint milk, one tablespoonful lard (melted in the milk), 
two teaspoonfuls salt, three-quarters of a cake of Fleisch- 
mann's compressed ^east soaked in a ciip of lukewarm water ; 
make this into a soft sponge, and let it rise four hours; then 
roll it out about half an inch thick, and cut with a goblet ; 
spread with melted butter and turn over not quite half. Put 
them in the pans, and let them rise for half an hour. Bake 
in a quick oven. 

Parker House Rolls. 

Scald one pint of sweet milk, and, when partly cooled, melt 
in it one-half cup white sugar and one tablespoonful of lard 
or butter. When lukewarm, add three-quarters of a cake of 
Fleischmaun's compressed yeast, dissolved in one-half cup 
warm water, and place the mixture in centre of two quarts of 
flour. When light, knead thoroughly; let rise again ; then 
knead again ten or fifteen minutes; then roll out thinner than 
for biscuit. Out out, as for biscuit, and spread butter over 
half the surface, fold half over, aud place in tins so as not to 
touch each other. Let rise again, and, when light, bake in 
quick oven. 

Boston Brown Bread. 

Two quarts of unbolted rye meal mixed with a quart of 
yellow corn meal ; add a cup of molasses in which is dissolved 
a teaspoonful of salt and a large teaspoonful of soda; add cold 
water, working it with the hands into a very stiff loaf; put it 
into a buttered pan, smoothing over the top and wetting it; 
then steam it at least four hours, for the longer corn and rye 
meals are cooked the better; then set it for half an hour in a 



64 BMEAD, 

moderately quick oven to dry it off and produce a good crust. 
This is the genuine article, without which no Boston Sunday 
breakfast is complete. 

Brown Bread. 

Take two even cups of Becker's Brown Bread Self-Kaising 
Flour, one cup of cold water or milk, one-fourth to one-half 
a cup of molasses to suit the taste ; mix thoroughly and pour 
it into a three-pint brown bread tin boiler that has been well 
greased, or a tin pail tightly covered will answer, set it into a 
steam cooker or covered iron kettle part full of boiling water, 
to steam four or five hours. Be careful not to allow any 
cessation in the boiling. 

If the batter is allowed to steam eight or ten hours, the loaf 
becomes darker and richer. When done steaming, take the 
cover off the mould and put it, with the bread, into the oven 
about ten minutes. This dries the outside and forms a tender 
crust. 

A handful of raisins mixed into the batter is a great im- 
provement. 

When taken out of the pail, let the loaf stand ten minutes 
in a warm oven ; then dip a sharp knife into cold water 
and cut in slices. This loaf is excellent for breakfast if 
re-steamed thirty minutes, or cut in slices and warmed in an 
oven. 

Raised Graham Rolls. 

One cup of water, one tablespoon ful of lard or butter, a little 
salt, one-half cake of Fleischmann's compressed yeast dissolved 
in one-half cup of warm water, half a cu]) flour ; add graham 
flour to make a stiff batter. Let it rise over night and in the 



BREAD. 65 

morning add one egg, three tablespoonfuls of molasses, half a 

teaspoonful of soda and one-third cup of Indian meal. Beat 

thoroughly, put in the gem-pans to rise, and bake in a quick 

oven. 

Wheat Gems. 

Mix one heaping teaspoonful of Dr. Price's cream baking- 
powder in one pint of flour ; add the yolks of two eggs, one 
tablespoonful of butter, one teacup of sweet milk, a pinch of 
salt. Mix well, beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, 
stir in, and bake immediately in greased gem pans. 

Graham Gems. 

One and a half pints graham flour sifted dry, with three 
teaspoonfuls of Dr. Price's cream baking powder; rub in a 
tablespoonful of butter, salt, one beaten egg^ half a cup of 
sugar, stir all with cool sweet milk to a batter, drop into gem 
pans or muffin rings and bake in a hot oven. 

Pop Overs. 

Two cups of sweet milk, two scant cups of flour, three 
eggs, salt. Beat eggs light ; then add milk and flour and beat 
all five minutes. Pour into hot gem-irons and bake in a quick 

oven. 

Muffins. 

One pint of flour ; one cup of milk ; one egg ; one table- 
spoonful of Dr. Price's cream baking powder ; butter the size 
of a walnut. 

Baking Powder Biscuit. 

Put one quart of flour before sifting into a sieve, with three 
teaspoonfuls Dr. Price's cream baking powder, one of salt; mix 



^6 BREAD. 

all thoroughly with the flour, run through sieve, rub in two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, wet with half pint sweet milk; roll on 
board about an inch thick, cut with biscuit cutter, and bake 
in a quick oven fifteen minutes. If you have not milk use a 
little more butter and wet with water. Handle as little and 
make aa rapidly as possible. 

Corn Cake. 

One cup of flour, one and one-half cups of meal, one Qgg^ 
butter the size of an Qgg, one teaspoonful soda; one-fourth cup 
sugar, sour milk to make consistency of sponge cake ; bake 

slowly. 

Corn Cake. 

Mix one cup each of flour and Indian meal, two heaping 
teaspoonfuls of Dr. Price's cream baking powder and a little 
salt together. Mix one Qgg, one-half cup sugar, butter size 
of an Q;gg and one cup warm sweet milk together; then pour 
the liquid into the dry mixture ; beat well and bake. 

Waffles. 

One quart of flour, two good teaspoonfuls of Dr. Price's 
cream baking powder, one-half cup butter, three eggs, and 
sufficient milk to make as thick as muffins. Add at the last 
about half cup of cold water. Cook in waffle irons over a hot 
fire. 

Wheat Griddle Cakes. 

One pint of sweet milk, two tablespoonfuls of butter, salt, 
two eggs beaten light, flour for a batter, with two teaspoonfuls 
of Dr. Price's cream baking powder. Beat all thoroughly ; 
fry on a griddle greased with a piece of salt pork. 



BREAD. 67 

Buckwheat Griddle Cakes. 

One quart of buckwheat flour, three large teaspoonfuls Dr. 
Price^s cream baking powder, a little salt, mix to a batter with 
milk or water — water is best — and bake on a griddle well 
greased. As the batter is thin, more baking powder is 
required than for dough. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 

One quart lukewarm water ; make a batter with the buck- 
wheat flour; salt: three-quarters of a cake of Fleischmann's 
compressed yeast; dissolve in the warm water, and let rise 
overnight; in the morning add a teaspoonful of soda and a 
little milk, which browns them. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 

To three pounds of Hecker's self-raising buckwheat add 
five pints of cold water or milk, or part each, and bake im- 
mediately. Keep the batter in a cool place if not wanted for 
immediate use. This will produce seventy light and delicious 
cakes, preferred by many to those made with yeast. 

Oatmeal Porridge. 

To one quart of boiling water add one cup of Hornby's 
steam cooked oats and one teaspoonful salt. Stir the oatmeal 
into the water while boiling and let it boil steadily, stirring 
up frequently from the bottom, for at least fifteen minutes. 
Send to the table in an uncovered dish, to be eaten with 
cream and sugar. 



68 BREAD. 

Boiled Mush. 

One quart of boiling water, two cups of Indian meal, two 
tablespoons of flour, one teaspoonful of salt. Wet up meal 
and flour in a little cold water. Stir them in the water, which 
should be boiling hot when they go in. Boil at least half an 
hour, slowly, stirring deeply every few minutes, and constantly 
toward the last. Send to the table in a deep dish, but not 
covered, or the steam will render it clammy. 

Hominy. 

One quart of boiling water, two scant cups of Hecker's 
hominy, soaked over night in enough water to cover it well, 
and one teaspoonful of salt. Stir the hominy into the water 
while boiling, and let it boil steadily, stirring frequently for 
about half an hour. Send to table in uncovered dish. 

Wheaten Grits. 

In a pot of boiling water place a vessel fitted with a tight 
cover, containing a quart of milk or water, and when it is 
brought to the boiling point stir in slowly about five table- 
spoonfuls of Seeker's wheaten grits, and let it boil half an hour 
or one hour, stirring occasionally. By thus boiling it in a 
separate vessel, not in immediate contact with the fire, the risk 
of burning is obviated, without requiring constant stirring. 
Soaking the grits over night in the proper quantity of milk or 
water, and boiling as above, is considered a decided advantage. 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

One cup, medium size, holds — half a pint. 

Two cups, medium size, of sifted flour weigh — half a 
pound. 

One pint of sifted flour weighs — half a pound. 

One pint of sugar weighs — one pound. 

Two cupfuls of granulated sugar — one pound. 

Two tablespoonfuls of liquid — one ounce. 

Ten eggs — one pound. 

One quart of flour — one pouud. 

One pint of finely chopped meat, packed solidly — one 
pound. 

Butter, one pint — one pound when well packed. 

A common-sized tumbler holds — half a pint. 

One tablespoonful soft butter — one ounce. 

One tablespoonful granulated suger — one ounce. 

Four tablespoonfuls — half a gill. 
7 



CAKES. 

'' Wouldst thou both eat thy cake and have it ? " 

Hints for Making Cake. 

Flour should alwa3's be sifted before using, and baking- 
powder and cream tarter sifted with the flour. It is difficult 
to beat eggs light unless they are cold. Fresh lard is better 
to grease cake pans, tlian butter, and thin paper spread on 
the bottom of the pans, especially layer cake, helps them to turn 
out nicely. In mixing cake, first beat the butter to a cream, 
add the sugar, and then when i)eaten light, add the eggs, 
milk, flavoring, and spices; the flour last unless fruit is used, 
then save out a little flour from the measure to rub the fruit 
in. 

White Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one cup of milk, 
three cups of flour, the whites of four eggs, three teaspoon- 
fuls of Dr. Price's baking powder. Beat the sugar and butter 
till light, then stir in the milk and flour, a little at a time, 
and add the wliites of the eggs last. 

Hickory Nut Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, three cups of 
flour, one cup of milk, whites of four eggs, three teaspoonfuls 
of Dr. Price's baking powder, two cups of chopped hickory 
nut meats. 



74 CAKES. 

Sponge Cake. 

Ten eggs, their weight in sugar, half their weight in flour, 
the juice and rind of one lemon. Bake in a moderate oven 
one hour. 

Angel's Cake. 

Whites of eleven Qgg&, one and one-half goblets of pulver- 
ized sugar, one goblet of flour, one teaspoonful cream tartar in 
the flour, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla. Sift the flour and sugar 
separately six times, put the eggs, well beaten, on the sugar 
and stir, then put in the flour, a tablespoonful at a time ; stir in 
two tablespoonfuls of hot water the last thing before putting 
it into the pan. Take a new pan witli a tube in the centre, 
do not grease it. Bake forty minutes without opening the 
oven door. Let it cool in the pan turned bottom-side up over 
a sieve, or in a way that the heat will escape. 

Cake Without Eggs. 

Five cups of flour, two cups of sugar, one-half cup of but- 
ter, two cups of milk, one teaspoonful of soda, two of cream 
tartar, nutmeg and citron and raisins. Tliis makes two loaves. 

Fruit Cake. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one pound of 
flour (reserving one-fourth of it to roll fruit in), ten eggs, one- 
half teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in a small spoonful of milk ; 
three and one-half pounds of raisins, two pounds of currants 
and one-half pound of citron, four teaspoonfuls cinnamon, 
two teaspoonfuls cloves, one of grated nutmeg, one-half wine- 
glass of rose water. 



CAKES. 75 

Minnehaha Cake. 

One cup of sugar and a half-cup of butfcer, stirred to a 
cream. Whites of four eggs or five wliole ones. Two tea- 
spoonfuls of cream of tartar stirred into two heaping cups of 
sifted flour. One teaspoon ful of soda in a half cup of milk. 
Bake in three layers. For filling between layers, a teacupful 
of sugar and a little water boiled till it is brittle when dropped 
in cold water; stir quickly the well-beaten white of an egg 
and a cup of stoned raisins cliopped very fine. Place between 
and over tlie top. 

Corn Starch Cake. 

One cup of butter, two cu^is of sugar, two cups of flour, 
one cup of Duryea's corn starch, four eggs, one cup of milk, 
and two teaspoonfuls of Dr. Price's cream baking powder. 

Gingerbread. 

One egg, one-half cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
one-half a cup of milk, two-thirds of a cup of molasses, two 
and one-half cups of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, and one 
of ginger. 

Cookies. 

Eight cups of flour, two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, 
one cup of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of vanilla, one heaping 
teaspoonful of Dr. Price's baking powder. Sprinkle white 
sugar over when rolled for cutting. 

Doughnuts. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of milk, two eggs, three tea- 
spoonfuls of melted butter, nutmeg, and a little salt. One 



76 CAKES. 

heaping teaspoonful of Dr. Price's bailing powder. Flour to 
make soft dough. Out out, and fry in hot fat. 

Crullers. 

One quart of flour, one and one-half cups of sugar, three 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter, three eggs, scant teacupful of 
sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of Dr. Price's baking powder, a 
little nutmeg, and salt; make a soft dough, and fry in hot fat. 

Ginger Wafers. 

One-half cup each of butter, sugar, and molasses, one heap- 
ing teaspoonful of ginger, and a little salt. Let this come to a 
boil. Take from the fire and add immediately one teaspoonful 
of soda dissolved in a little water; while foaming, add flour 
to make very stiff. Roll very thin. 

Hermit's. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, one cup of butter, two 
eggs, one cup of currants or chopped raisins, one teaspoonful 
of soda in one-fourth of a cup of sweet milk, one teaspoonful 
of cloves, one of cinnamon, nutmeg, and allspice to taste. Put 
in flour as for cookies, roll thin, sprinkle with sugar before 
baking. 

FILLING FOR LAYER CAKE. 

Chocolate Caramel. 

Two cups sugai', one-half cup sweet cream ; boil together 
five minutes. Remove from the fire, flavor with vanilla, stir 
to a cream, and spread over the cake. Melt one-third of a 
cake of Fry's chocolate, and spread over the cream. 



CAKES. 77 

Sour Cream. 

One cup of sour cream, one-half cup of sugar, one table- 
spoonful flour. Beat together and cook till it thickens, and 
when cold add one cup chopped walnuts. 

Cream Custard. 

Two eggs, three teaspoonfnls of Duryea's corn starch, half a 
cup of sugar, and one teaspoonful of vanilla. Scald a pint of 
milk, and stir the above in and boil two minutes. 

Cocoanut. 

One teacupful of cocoanut in enough rich milk to cook well, 
sweeten, and add the beaten whites of two eggs ; the usual frost- 
ing for the top layer, with cocoanut sprinkled over it. 

Raisin. 

One cup of raisins, stoned and chopped fine and stirred into 
boiling frosting when cold. 

Fig Filling. 

One pound of figs chopped fine, stir in jelly or fruit juice 
till it will spread easily ; add sugar, if necessary. 

Lemon Filling. 

One cup of sugar, one-fourth of a cup of butter, grated 
rind and juice of two lemons, yolks of four eggs, cook until 
it thickens, stirring all the while. 

Jelly Cake. 

Use Cairns' Scotch Home-made Jellies. 



78 CAKES. 

FROSTING. 

Easy Frosting. 

For one loaf of cake take the white of one Qgg, one full cup 
of powdered sugar and one teaspoonful of Duryea's corn starch. 
Beat tlie egg but little — not till light, then stir in the sugar 
and corn starch. When smooth spread it on your cake. 

Boiled Frosting. 

Take one pound of granulated sugar, put in a pail, and pour 
over it just enough boiling water to dissolve ; set in a kettle of 
water; beat the whites of three eggs a very little, put it into 
the pail and beat until it thickens ; remove from the stove and 
beat until cold. This is enough for two cakes. 

Icing. 

To the juice of one lemon add enough pulverized sugar so 
it will not run. 



PIES. 

Puff Pastry. 

Oke pound of flour, a little more for rolling pin and board ; 
half a pound of lard ; the same of butter. Cut the lard and 
butter in the sifted flour and mix with ice water to roll easily. 
Do not knead it and use the hands in mixing as little as pos- 
sible. 

Plain Pastry for One Pie. 

One large cup of sifted flour, one salt-spoon of Dr. Price's 
baking powder, also one of salt, one-half cup of lard or butter. 
Sift the baking powder and salt into the flour, work in the 
butter or lard, and mix stiff with very cold water ; spread with 
butter, turn it over half, divide in two and use. 

Apple Pie. 

Line a dish with pastry, pare tart, juicy apples, slice and lay 
in rows on the bottom crust ; sprinkle one cup of sugar and 
a little nutmeg or cinnamon and small bits of butter; wet the 
edges of the bottom crust and put on the top crust, pressing 
the two together with the palm of the hand. 

Lemon Pie. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, same quantity of water ; 
two tablespoonfuls of Duryea's corn starch, one egg, juice and 
rind of one lemon. 



80 PIES. 

Lemon Meringue Pie. 

One and one-half coffee cnps of sugar, grated rind and juice 
of one lemon, five eggs, whites of three reserved for meringue, 
two good tablespoon fuls of Duryea's corn starch, three-fourths 
of a cup of hot water, a pinch of salt. Beat flour, sugar, and 
eggs together, add water to lemon juice and stir with the flour, 
etc. Make the meringue with the whites of three eggs and 
two tablespoon fuls of sugar. 

Pumpkin Pie. 

One quart of milk, two teacupfuls of strained, boiled pump- 
kin, a little salt, one cup of sugar, three eggs, one teaspoonful 
of ginger and one of cinnamon. Bake in a hot oven. 

Cream Pie. 

Scald two cups of milk and one cup of sugar ; piece of 
butter the size of walnut; add to this a small half-cup of flour 
dissolved in a little milk, a very little salt, and the yolks of two 
well-beaten eggs. Flavor with vanilla, and when as thick as 
cream, put into the crust which has been baked first, and 
brown in the oven. 

Pie-plant Pie. 

Two cups sliced pie-plant, one large cup of sugar, one table- 
spoonful of flour. 

Cocoanut Pie. 

One and one-half cups of cocoanut, one quart of sweet milk, 
three eggs, reserving the white of one egg, one-half a cup of 
sugar and bake ; make a meringue of the white of one Qgg and 
a little powdered sugar, and brown in the oven. 



PIbiS 81 

Custard Pie. 

One pint of milk, pinch of salt, three eggs, three and one- 
half tablespoonfuls of sugar, flavor, and bake slowly. 

Meringue Custard Pie. 

Yolks of four eggs, sugar to taste, pinch of salt, and milk 
to fill a medium-sized plate ; grate a little nutmeg on top. 
Bake slowly. Beat the whites of four eggs with two table- 
spoonfuls of sugai-, spread over the top, and lightly brown in 
the oven. 

Mince Meat. 

One pint of finely-chopped meat, three pints of chopped 
apple, one large cup of molasses, one large cup of boiled cider, 
one large cup of sugar, one-half pint of the liquor which the 
meat has been cooked in, one teaspoonful each of salt, cloves, 
and cinnamon. Half a pound of finely-chopped suet. Simmer 
slowly until all is well mixed, and add a little water if not 
moist enough when ready to use. 
8 



PUDDINGS. 

" If you would make a pudding wi' thinking of the batter it 'ud be easy getting 
dinner,' 

General Directions. 

If you intend to boil a pudding, be sure and have the water 
boiling before you put the pudding in. A tin pudding boiler, 
with a hollowed centre, is preferable to a cloth bag — it should 
be well buttered before the pudding is turned in, to prevent it 
from breaking when turned out. If a bag is used, make it 
of thick twilled cotton^ wet it in cold water, and flour 
well before using, allowing room for the pudding to swell. 
Puddings in which berries are used require more flour than 
those without, and the frnit should be added the last thing. 
In baking, fruit, rice, corn starch, and bread puddings 
require a moderate oven ; custard and batter puddings 
should be put in the oven as soon as mixed, and be baked 
quickly. 

Graham Pudding. 

One cup each of molasses and sweet milk, two cups graham 
flour, one egg, a little salt and nutmeg, one-half teaspoonful 
of soda, one cup full of chopped raisins, dredged with flour. 
Steam three hours. 

Steamed Puddins:. 

One cup of molasses and one cup of milk, one half cup of 
butter and three eggs, three cups of flour, one teaspoonful 
of soda, one cup of raisins, a little cinnamon, cloves, and 



8t PUDDINGS. 

nutmeg. Steam two hours, and eat with sauce or sweetened 
whipped cream. 

Cottage Pudding. 

One cup of sugar, one tablespooiiful of butter, one egg, small 
cup of milk, two teaspoonfuls Dr. Price's baking powder, and 
flour to make like soft cake. 

Indian Pudding. 

Scald one quart of sweet milk, into it stir five rounded table- 
spoonfuls of Indian meal, one teacupful of brown sugar, or five 
tablespoonfnls of molasses, one teaspoonful of ginger, and a lit- 
tle salt ; put in a moderate oven to bake ; in half an hour stir in 
one Clip of cold, rich milk, and bake two hours; add a cup of 
stoned raisins when you do the milk, if desired; eat with 
cream. 

Rice Pudding. 

One cnp of rice, nine cups of rich milk, one cup of sugar, a 
little salt, and cinnamon ; stir occasionally, and bake in a 
moderate oven till the consistency of cream. 

Queen of Puddings. 

One pint of bread crumbs, one quart of milk, one cup of 
sugar, yolks of four eggs, butter the size of an Qgg, and grated 
rind of one lemon. Bake in buttered dish two-thirds full. 
When done spread over the top, while hot, a layer of jelly or 
preserves (Cairns' Scotch Home-mad-e), and cover with a mer- 
ingue made of the whites of the four eggs and a cup of sugar. 
Put back in the oven to brown lightly. 



PUDDINGS. 85 

Apple Pudding. 

Chop bread crumbs very fine, chop the same quantity of 
sour apples, that have been pared and cored; butter a deep 
pudding dish, and put a layer of the bread crumbs in the 
bottom, with little pieces of butter, then a layer of apples, a 
little salt, sugar, and cinnamon ; add apples and bread crumbs 
till the dish is nearly full. Eoom must be left for the bread 
to swell ; top layer must be bread crumbs. Pour in hot water 
till you can see it, and bake one or two hours, or till it is 
brown. Serve with sauce. 

White Steamed Pudding. 

One cup of sugar, one egg, two tablespoonfuls of melted but- 
ter, one cup of sweet milk, two cups of flour, one heaping tea- 
spoonful of Dr. Price's baking powder. Steam one hour and 
eat with sauce. 

Steamed Cabinet Pudding. 

One cup of stale bread, one cup of milk, one Qgg, one salt- 
spoonful of salt, one-quarter of a cup of fruit, one teaspoonful 
of butter, one tablespoonful of sugar. Butter a mould, break 
the bread into small pieces, clean and cut up the fruit. Make 
a custard by beating the egg and adding the sugar, milk, and 
salt. Place the bread and fruit in alternate layers in the 
mould, pour on the custard, and steam half an hour. Serve 
with sauce. 

Suet Pudding. 

One cup of suet chopped, one cup of molasses, two cups of 
chopped raisins, one cup of sweet milk, four cups of flour, one 
egg, one teaspoonful of salt. Boil or steam three hours. 



86 PUBBINOS. 

English Plum Pudding. 

One-half pound each of bread crumbs, raisins, and currants, 
one-fourth pound each of citron and suet, one coffee-cup of 
sugar, teaspoonful of cinnamon, ginger, and nutmeg, one pint 
of sweet milk, six eggs well beaten, stirred in the milk, and 
added last, with one-half cup of coffee, or any desired flavor- 
ing. Serve with rich sauce. 

Roly-Poly. 

Take good soda biscuit crust, roll one-half inch thick, and 
spread with any kind of fruit, fresh, preserved, or dried. Roll 
over and over, fastening the ends, and steam one hour and a 
half. Serve with cream, sugar, or sauce. Soak the dried 
fruit in water before cooking. 

Cocoanut Pudding. 

To one grated cocoanut, pour a quart of boiling milk ; when 
cool, add six well-beaten eggs, one coffee-cup of sugar, one 
tablespoonful of butter (put in the milk while hot), two tea- 
spoonfuls of rose water and a little salt. Line your dish with 
nice paste and bake. 

Batter Pudding. 

Four eggs well beaten, eight tablespoonfuls of flour stirred 
in carefully, one quart of milk added slowly, and a pinch of 
salt. Bake one-half hour and serve with sauce. 

Minute Pudding. 

One quart of milk, six tablespoonfuls of flour, one-half cup of 
sugar, salt, spoon of salt, and one Qg^. Stir flour, sugar and 



PUDDINGS. 87 

salt in a little of the cold milk. Heat the remainder of the 
milk, and when at boiling point stir in the flour. Cook three 
minutes, and stir in the beaten egg as you take it off the stove. 
To be eaten with rich milk. 



Boiled Lemon Pudding. 

Two cups of dry bread crumbs, one cup of chopped beef suet, 
four tablespoonfnls of flour, two heaping teaspoonfuls of Dr. 
Price's cream baking powder, half a cup of sugar, one large 
lemon, all the juice and half the peel, four eggs whipped light, 
one large cup of milk. Soak the bread-crumbs in the milk ; 
add the suet ; beat the eggs and sugar together, and beat in 
the soaked bread. To this add the lemon, lastly the flour, 
beating only enough to mix. Boil three hours in a buttered 
mould, and eat with hot sauce. 



Peach Pudding. 

Twelve ripe peaches, pared, stoned, and cut in halves, three 
eggs and whites of two more, one-half cup of powdered sugar, 
two tablespoonfuls of Duryea's corn starch wet in cold milk, 
one tablespoonful of melted butter, one pint of milk. Scald 
the milk, stir in the corn starch, and when it begins to thicken 
take from the fire and put in the butter ; when cool whip in 
the beaten yolks till all are very light. Put in a thick layer of 
the peaches, pour the cream over them, bake in a quick oven 
ten minutes, and spread with a meringue made of the five 
whites whipped stiff with a little powdered sugar. Shut the 
oven door till this is firm. Eat vvith cold cream. 



88 PUDDINGS. 

Fig Pudding. 

One-half cup of butter put on the stove till melted, one 
cup of sugar/one-half a nutmeg, one pint fine bread crumbs, 
four eggs well beaten ; mix them well together, then add the 
butter and half a pound of figs cut fine ; steam three hours. 

Strawberry Short-Cake. 

Make a fine baking powder biscuit crust, and separate in 
three pieces, roll out about half an inch thick. As you spread 
the crust in the pans spread butter on the top of the first, then 
lay the second on and spread also, then put on the last crust, 
put in the oven and bake quickly. When done separate the 
crusts carefully, butter each again and spread thick with 
crushed berries with plenty of sugar. Serve with or without 
cream. 

PUDDING SAUCES. 

Foam Sauce. 

One teacup of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of butter, one tea- 
spoonful of flour, beat smooth, place over the fire and add three 
gills of boiling water; a little lemon juice, vanilla, or orange 
adds to the sauce. 

Fairy Butter. 

One cup of white sugar, one-half cup of butter, the white of 
one egg. Beat all together till light and creamy. Favor with 
nutmeg. 

Cream Sauce. 

One cup of powdered sugar, one egg, two cupfuls of whipped 
cream ; beat the white of the egg to a stiff froth, add the 



FUDDIMGIS. 89 

yolk and sugar and beat well ; flavor and add cream the last 
of all. 

Sour Sauce. 

One cupful of sugar and two tablespoonf uls of butter rubbed 
to a cream, one-half cup of vinegar, one egg well beaten ; add 
one-half cup of hot water, stirring all the time. 

Pudding Sauce. 

One cup of sugar, one Qgg, white and yolk beaten separately, 
stir three tablespoonfuls of boiling milk in just before serving, 
flavor with vanilla. 

Lemon Sauce. 

One large cup of sugar, nearly half cup of butter, one egg, 
one lemon, all the juice and half the grated peel) half a tea- 
spoonful of nutmeg, three tablespoonfuls boiling water. Cream 
the butter and sugar, and beat in the egg whipped light, then 
the lemons and nutmeg. Beat ten minutes and add slowly 
the boiling water. Put in a tin pail and set in the uncovered 
top of the tea-kettle, kept boiling, stir the sauce and let get 
very hot, but not boil. 

Hard Sauce. 

Stir to a cream one cup of butter and three cups of pow- 
dered sugar, juice of one lemon, and a half a teaspoonful of 
nutmeg. When light and creamy set on ice till ready for use. 



FANCY DESSERTS. 

" Trifles, light as air." 

Snow Pudding. 

Dissolve half a box of Cox's gelatine in a pint of boiling 
water; when nearly cool, add one cup of sugar and the juice 
of one lemon ; strain, add the whites of three eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth, beat all thoroughly, and pour into a mould. Serve 
with soft custard, made with the yolks of three eggs, and one- 
half teaspoonful of Duryea's corn starch, stirred in one pint of 
boiling milk. 

Tapioca Cream. 

Three tablespoonfuls of tapioca, soaked two hours in a pint 
of cold water ; scald one quart of milk, beat the yolks of three 
eggs, one cuj) of sugar, a little salt, and one teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Stir this in the milk, and last, the whites of the 
eggs, beaten stiff. 

Rock Cream. 

Boil one teacupful of rice in sweet milk, one-half teaspoonful 
of salt ; pile it roughly in a dish, whip the whites of five eggs to 
a stiff froth, with a little sugar, flavor with vanilla, Avhip one 
teacupful of rich milk or cream. Sweeten and flavor, pile over 
the rice in forms of rocks; also the beaten whites ; lay on top 
square lumps of currant jelly or any kind of jam, keep on ice 
till served. Cairns' Scotch home-made jams and jellies are as 
good as those made at home and much more convenient. 
9 



92 FANCY DESSERTS. 

Rice Snow. 

Put to cook four tablespoonfuls of ground rice (it can be 
ground in any coffee-mill) in one pint of water, stir well, and 
cook fifteen minutes ; add two teaspoonfuls of butter, a little 
salt, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and a little essence of lemon. 
Have boiling one pint of milk, pour it over the rice, and stir 
well ; let it boil until thick, and pour in a dish for the table. 
Excellent, warm or cold. 

Orange Souffle. 

Four oranges sliced and sprinkled with sugar a short time 
before dinner, one pint of milk, three eggs, leaving out the 
whites of two for the frosting, small half-cup of sugar, and one 
teaspoonful of vanilla ; make as for boiled custard, and when 
cold, pour over the oranges ; make the whites of the two eggs 
into frosting, with four tablespoonfuls of sugar, pour over the 
top, and brown in the oven. 

Orange Float. 

One quart of milk, juice and pulp of two lemons, one coffee- 
cup of sugar; add four tablespoonfuls of Duryea's corn starch, 
mixed in a little cold water ; let it boil fifteen minutes, stirring 
it ; when cool, pour it over four sliced oranges. Spread over 
the top the beaten whites of three eggs, sweetened and flavored 
with vanilla ; serve with cream. 

Coffee Jelly. 

Half a box of Cox's gelatine, half a pint of cold water, half a 
pint of boiling water, one cup of sugar, a stick of cinnamon, 
and three or four raisins. Soak the gelatine in the cold water 



FANCY DESSERTS. 93 

one hour, add the hot water, sugar, etc., boil twenty minutes, 
and add one gill of cold coffee. Strain in moulds, and eat with 
whipped cream, sweetened. 

Orange Jelly. 

One box of Cox's gelatine, soaked one hour in one pint of 
cold water ; add one pint of boiling water, one pound of sugar, 
juice of eight sour oranges ; pour in moulds. 

Lemon Jelly. 

Two cups of sugar, one of lemon juice, one quart of boiling 
water, one cup of cold water, and one box of Cox's gelatine; 
soak gelatine in the cold water two hours, then add boiling 
water, sugar, and lemon juice. Strain into moulds. 

Spanish Cream. 

Dissolve one-third of a box of Cox's gelatine in three- 
fourths of a quart of milk for one hour; then put it on the 
stove, and, when boiling, stir in the yolks of three eggs, 
beaten with three-fourths of a cup of sugar. When it is boil- 
ing hot, remove from the fire, and stir in the whites, well 
beaten. Flavor to taste, and pour in moulds. 

Lemon and Fruit Jelly. 

The juice of four lemons, one-half package Cox's gelatine, 
three cups boiling water, one-half cup sugar. Let it stand 
until it partly solidifies ; into this stir one-quarter of a pound 
of walnuts broken into halves, one-eighth of a pound of figs, 
and one-eighth of a pound of dates, torn into pieces. Serve 
with whipped cream. 



94 FANCY DESSERTS, 

Farina Jelly. 

Boil three pints of milk or water ; while boiling,, sprinkle in 
slowly one-quarter of a pound or four large tablespoonfuls of 
Heckers farina ; continue the boiling from half an hour to an 
hour. When done, turn it into a jelly mould, and place it on 
ice or in cold water to stiffen. It thus becomes a beautiful 
ornament for the table, and may be eaten with rich sauce, 
pulverized sugar, or any condiment more pleasing to the taste. 
It is very delicious if sliced when cold, and fried brown. 

Charlotte Russe. 

One-half a box of Cox's gelatine, one cup of sugar, nearly one 
quart of milk, one pint of whipped cream, three ^gg^', dissolve 
gelatine in milk ; when hot, add the ^ggs, well beaten ; when 
nearly cold, add whipped cream ; season with vanilla. 

Charlotte Russe. 

One pint of cream, whipped light, one-half an ounce of Cox's 
gelatine, dissolved in a gill of hot milk, whites of two eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth, one small teacupful of powdered sugar, 
one small teaspoonful of vanilla, one-half a teaspoonful of 
almond. Mix the cream, eggs, and sugar ; flavor, and beat in 
the gelatine last. It should be quite cold when added. Line 
a mould with slices of sponge cake or lady fingers, fill with the 
mixture, and set on the ice to cool. This is enough for two 

moulds. 

Blanc Mange. 

Four tablespoonfuls of Duryea's improved corn starch to one 
quart of milk; beat the corn starch thoroughly with two eggs, 
and add to it the milk when near boiling, with a little salt; 



FANCY DESSERTS. 95 

boil a few minutes, stirring it briskly ; flavor to taste, and 
pour into a mould ; sweeten it while cooking, or use a sauce of 
Sugar and cream. To be eaten cold. 

Chocolate Blanc Mange. 

One-quarter of a pound of chocolate, one-half a box of Cox's 
gelatine, one quart of milk, one cup of sugar ; put all in a dish, 
set in a kettle of boiling water, and boil one hour; when nearly 
cold, turn in a mould. Flavor with vanilla. 

Plain Corn Starch Pudding. 

One quart of milk, five tablespoon fuls of Duryea's improved 
corn starch, four ounces of sugar. Heat the milk and sugar 
to boiling; then add the improved corn starch, it having been 
previously well dissolved in a part of the milk, cold ; boil two 
or three minutes, stirring it briskly; flavor to taste, and pour 
the pudding into moulds. When cold, turn it out, and serve 
with cold stewed fruit, preserves, or jellies, as a sauce. 

Floating Island. 

One quart of milk, four eggs, whites and yolks beaten sepa- 
rately, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of almond 
or vanilla. Heat the milk to scalding, beat the yolks, stir them 
into the sugar, and pour upon them gradually a cupful of the 
hot milk. Return to the saucepan and boil till it begins to 
thicken. When cool, flavor and pour into a glass dish ; heap 
upon the top a meringue of the whites Avhipped stiff", and drop 
on small pieces of jelly or preserved fruit. 



96 FANCY DESSERTS. 

Baked Cup Custards. 

One quart of milk, five eggs, five tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
nutmeg, and vanilla ; scald the milk and pour upon the beaten 
yolks and sugar ; add to this, when you have flavored it, the 
whites of two eggs; fill small stoneware cups, and set in a 
dripping-pan of boiling water. Bake until ** set," cover with 
meringue made of the whisked whites of the three eggs and a 
little powdered sugar. Bake till light brown ; eat cold from 
the cups. 

Boiled Custard. 

One quart of milk, yolks of five eggs, and whites of two, re- 
serving three for the meringue, six tablespoonfuls of sugar, two 
teaspoonfuls of flavoring extract. Heat the milk to scalding, 
pour gradually on the beaten yolks and two whites, whipped 
light with the sugar. Eeturn to the custard kettle, and stir 
until it begins to thicken. When cold, flavor; pour in a glass 
or china dish, whip the whites of the three eggs with a little 
sugar, and put on the top. Lay a preserved berry or bit of 
jelly on the top of the whites. Serve with cake if desired. 

Prune Jelly. 

One quart of Turkish prunes, two lemons, one box of Cox's 
gelatine, sugar to taste ; soak the prunes in three pints of 
cold water from twelve to twenty-four hours; when fully 
soaked out, stew them till very tender, adding sugar, as you 
would for the table, before taking from the fire ; soak the 
gelatine in one pint of cold water, turn the juice of the stewed 
prunes into a quart measure, and fill it up with hot water ; 
turn this and the juice of two lemons into the soaked gelatine. 



FANCY DESSERTS, 97 

and cook until it boils ; stone the prunes, and put enough to 
fill your mould one-third full. When the jelly boils, strain it 
into the moulds through a coarse cloth. 

IMPERIAL GRANUM. 

Dessert. 

The Imperial Granum, in its elementary composition, con- 
tains the medicinal and nutritive qualities in superior excel- 
lence, and there are many delicious forms in which it may be 
prepared for the table, the methods of preparing which we 
leave to the ingenuity and taste of the consumer. We give, 
however, receipts for preparing a most healthful and delicious 
dessert service, translated from the French of M. Paschal, 
chef de cuisine, Paris. 

Creme de Thyra. 

Use two heaping tablespoonfuls of Imperial Granum and 
one quart of milk. Dissolve the Granum in a little of the 
cold milk, to which add two well-beaten eggs, four tablespoon- 
fuls of white sugar, and a very little salt ; mix well together. 
Boil the rest of the milk, and stir in the mixture ; continue 
boiling it slowly until a creamy appearance is observed, then 
remove it from the fire ; flavor with lemon, vanilla, chocolate, 
or to the taste, and pour it hot into cups. When cold, it is 
ready for the table. The eggs can be omitted by using three 
heaping tablespoonfuls of the Imperial Granum. 

Tarte d'Elysee. 

Prepare the ^' Oreme de Thyra " with same proportions and 
in the same manner as above directed. The quantity will be 



98 FANCY DESSERTS. 

ample for two pies. Have in readiness four nicely-made, 
equal-sized pie crusts, baked on dinner plates (ordinary pie 
plates are too deep), spread the cream hot on one of them, 
then cover it with the other, and serve warm or cold. The 
crusts should be hot from the oven when the cream is spread 
upon them. Sift a little pulverized sugar on the top crust. 
If this pie is well made it will be difticult to conceive of any- 
thing more wholesome and delicious. 

Note. — The above recipes are given for a specified quantity. 
Observe the same proportions for more or less. 

Ice Cream. 

One quart of rich milk, eight eggs, whites and yolks beaten 
separately and very light, four cups of sugar, three pints sweet 
cream, five tablespoonfuls flavoring, a pinch of salt. Heat the 
milk to almost boiling, beat the yolks light, add the sugar, 
and stir well. Pour the hot milk to this, little by little, beat- 
ing all the time ; put in the frothed whites, and return to the 
fire ; boil in a double boiler. Stir the mixture till it is as 
thick as boiled custard ; pour into a bowl to cool. When 
nearly cold, beat in the cream and flavoring. 

Imperial Granum Ice Cream. 

Dissolve two heaping tablespoonfuls of Imperial Granum 
and a very little salt in a teacupful of cold milk ; stir this into 
a quart of boiling milk until the mixture assumes a creamy 
appearance, then remove it from the fire, and add five table- 
spoonfuls of white granulated sugar ; stir it frequently while 
cooling. When cold, and just before putting it into the 
freezer, flavor with lemon, vanilla, chocolate, or to suit the 



I 



FANCY DESSERTS. 99 

taste. It is best without flavor for invalids. Observe the 
same proportions for more or less. 

If, for dessert, a very rich cream is desired, stir into the 
above (after flavoring, and just before freezing) one pint of 
whipped sweet cream. 

This most delicious Cream of the Creams is highly recom- 
mended for its unrivalled nutritive and sanatory excellence. 
It will leave no bad taste in the mouth, as is invariably the 
case with frozen custard, or frozen compounds of eggs, corn 
starch, etc. 

Not only for those in health, but for invalids, and for con- 
valescents from all forms of disease, especially fevers, it is 
unequalled for its soothing and nourishing qualities. 



ft 



BEVERAGES. 

" Coffee, which makes the politician wise, 
And see through all things with his half-shut eyes." 

Coffee. 

Allow a heaping tablespoonful to each person and one 
extra ; use half the white of one egg for six persons, and mix 
it with the coifee ; then moisten thoroughly with cold water; 
just fifteen minutes before it is served, pour on boiling water, 
allowing a coffee-cupful for each person and one extra; let it 
boil about five minutes, stirring it when the coffee rises to the 
top ; place on back of stove to settle, or add a tablespoonful of 
cold water; — 

Or, 

Prepare the coffee and egg as above, put the mixture into 
cold water in a tightly-covered vessel, and boil five minutes ; 
or have a pot or can that fits into the tea-kettle, and steam, 
keeping the water in the tea-kettle boiling all the time. Java 
and mocha, mixed in equal quantities, make a nice-flavored 
coffee. 

Tea. 

For moderate strength, use one teaspoonful to half a pint 
of water; pour on boiling water, leaving the pot standing 
where it will be at the boiling-point, yet will not boil, for from 
three to five minutes, keeping tightly covered. 



102 BEVERAGES. 

Chocolate. 

A Famous Washington Recipe. — Break up the chocolate 
and phxce in a warm spot to melt ; put in a farina kettle, and 
pour on boiling milk ; stir while pouring in the milk, and 
stir constantly while cooking ; let it boil some minutes, and 
serve with av hipped cream. Use Fry's sweetened chocolate. 

Cocoa. 

For a breakfast cup. — Put into the cup half a teaspoonful 
of Fry's cocoa and a spoonful of sugar; fill up slowly with 
boiling water, stirring the while. Add milk or cream to suit 
the tastC; and more sugar if required. 

Communion Wine. 

Three pounds of grapes, two of white sugar, three quarts 
of water; scald the grapes and water slowly, then mash and 
strain ; add the sugar, boil, and seal, as for canned fruit. 

A Summer Drink. 

Two pounds (Catawba grapes, three tablespoonfuls loaf 
sugar, one cup cold water. Squeeze the grapes in a coarse 
cloth, when you have picked them from the stems. Wring 
out every drop of juice, add the sugar, and when this is dis- 
solved, the water. Surround with ice until very cold; put a 
lump of ice into a pitcher, pour the mixture upon it and 
drink at once. If not sweet enough, add more sugar. 



10 



JELLIES AND PRESERVES. 

Peaches. 

Pare and place them on a plate in the steamer, over boiling 
water, keeping them tightly covered, steam till they can be 
easily pierced with a fork; put them in heated cans, keeping 
cans in hot water until sealed. Make a syrup in the propor- 
tion of one pint of water to each pound and a half of sugar, 
and allowing three-quarters of a pound of sugar to each pound 
of fruit. Pour the hot syrup over the fruit, and seal. 

Pears are put up in the same way as peaches, allowing but 
one-half pound of sugar for each of fruit. 

Grape Preserves. 

Press the pulp from the skins ; put the pulps in preserving- 
kettle and boil them a few moments ; then strain through cul- 
lender to separate the seeds ; add the pulp to the skins, and 
weigh ; allow three-fourths of a pound of sugar to one pound 
of fruit. Cook slowly, from one-half to three-fourths of an 
hour. 

Currant Jelly. 

To one heaping quart of fruit, put a small half-cup of 
water. Put fruit in preserving-kettle, and cook to pulp; then 
put in bag and strain, do not squeeze. To each pint of juice, 
allow one pound of sugar. Cook from three to eight minutes, 
and pour in glasses. 



104 JELLIES AND PRESERVES. 

Crab Apple Jelly. 

Eemove the stems and blossoms from fruit, cut in two, and 
put in porcelain kettle, with water to nearly cover; cook 
until soft, put in a flannel bag, and drain. For each pint of 
juice allow one pound of sugar, boil the juice ten or fifteen 
minutes, skim thoroughly, heat the sugar in the oven, and 
add to the juice; then let it just come to a boil, and strain 

into glasses. 

Strawberry Jam. 

For every pound of fruit, three-quarters of a pound of 
sugar, one pint of red currant juice to every four pounds of 
strawberries. Boil the juice of the currants with the straw- 
berries half an hour, stirring all the time. Add the sugar, 
and boil up rapidly for about twenty minutes, skimming 
carefully. Put in small jars. 

Baked Apples. 

Cut out the blossom end of sweet apples — Campfields or 
Pound Sweets — with a sharp penknife ; wash, but do not pare 
them, pack in a large pudding dish, pour a cupful of water in 
the bottom, cover closely with another dish or pan ; set in a 
moderate oven, and steam until tender all through. Pour the 
liquor over them while hot, and repeat this as they cool. Set 
on the ice several hours before tea, and when you are ready, 
transfer to a glass dish, pouring the juice over them again. 
Eat with powdered sugar and cream. 

Should you object to the worry and trouble of putting up 
your own jellies, we would recommend to you Cairns' Scotch 
home-made jellies, jams, and marmalades, which we have 
tried, and find superior to anything of the kind we have ever 
used. 



PICKLES AND RELISHES. 

Sweet Cucumber Pickle. 

Take ripe cucumbers, pare them and cut out the the seeds ; 
cut in strips and soak in weak brine twenty-four hours ; then 
put them in vinegar and soak twenty-four hours longer ; then 
put them in sweetened vinegar (the same as for any sweet 
pickle), and cook until tender. To one and one-half quarts of 
vinegar, four cups of brown sugar, a tablespoonful ground cin- 
namon (tied in a cloth), also a few whole cloves. Put away 
in jars. 

Sweet Pickle. 

Seven pounds of fruit, three and one-half pounds sugar, 
one pint vinegar, two tablespoonfuls each of ground cloves and 
cinnamon (put in a bag) ; boil syrup first, pare your fruit, and 
cook till tender. Put in jars and pour syrup over. 

Chili Sauce. 

Thirty ripe tomatoes, five large onions, two large peppers, 
one cup of yinegar, two tablespoonfuls sugar, one of salt ; chop 
the vegetables, add cinnamon and cloves to taste, and boil one 
hour or more. 

Boston Tomato. 

N"ine pounds ripe tomatoes, four pounds dark brown sugar; 
boil down thick; add one teaspoonful each of cloves, cinna- 



106 PICKLES AND RELISHES, 

raon, and mace, and one quart of vinegar; boil down again 
until thick. Put in cans, and it is ready to serve with cold or 
hot meats. 

Tomato Catsup. 

One-half bushel tomatoes; boil till soft, and put through a 
sieve; one quart cider vinegar, one-half pint salt, one table- 
spoonful of whole cloves, one teaspoonful whole allspice, three 
teaspoonfuls black pepper, one red pepper, and one garlic; 
mix, and boil five hours. Strain and bottle while hot. 

Russian Sauce. 

Four tablespoonfuls grated horseradish, two tablespoonfuls 
made mustard, one tablespoonful sugar, salt-spoonful of salt, 
and vinegar enough to cover. Will keep for months if well 
corked. 

Spiced Grapes. 

Six pounds of fruit, four pounds of sugar, one-half pint 
vinegar, one teaspoonfid eacli of ground cloves, mace, cinna- 
mon, and allspice, one-half teaspoonful ginger; seed grapes as 
for preserves ; boil all together one hour. 

Pickled Peaches. 

Rub the fur off with coarse cloth, and prick each peach with 
a fork ; heat in just enough water to cover them until they 
Imost boil. Take them out, and add lo the water sugar 
in the following proportions: For every seven pounds of 
fruit, three pounds of sugar; boil fifteen minutes; skim, and 
add three pints of vinegar, one tablespoonful each of allspice, 
mace, and cinnamon, one teaspoonful celery-seed, and one of 
cloves. Put the spices in thin muslin bags. Boil all together 



PICKLES AND RELISHES. 107 

ten minutes; then put in the fruit, and boil until they can be 
pierced with a straw ; take out the fruit with a skimmer, and 
spread on dishes to cool. Boil the syrup until thick, pack the 
peaches in glass jars, and pour this over them scalding hot. 
Pears may be pickled in the same way. 

Sweet Melon Pickle. 

Cut the dark green rind from a watermelon, after the red, 
juicy part has been removed ; cut white pared rind into blocks, 
and soak over night in one gallon of water, into which one-half 
teacupful salt and one ounce of alum have been dissolved ; 
drain, and wash in fresh water. Scald one gallon of vinegar 
and three and a half pounds brown sugar, Avith one teacup- 
ful of mixed whole spices, tied in a bag ; skim well ; into 
this put the melon rind, and simmer on the back of the 
stove until tender. 

Pickled Cucumbers. 

Two ounces of cloves, two ounces allspice, four ounces mus- 
tard, twelve ounces horse-radish, five hundred cucumbers ; 
vinegar sufficient to cover them; heat the vinegar two or 
three times, and pour over the cucumbers ; put a plate or board 
over them to keep them under the vinegar. 



CANDY. 

" Sweets to the Sweet." 

French Cream. 

Break in a bowl the white of one or more eggs ; add an 
equal quantity of cold water. Then stir in confectioner's 
sugar until stiff enough to mould into shape with the fingers. 

Chocolate Cream Drops. 

Take French cream and mould into cone-shaped balls. Let 
them harden several hours. Melt one cake of Fry's choco- 
late. It will soon melt by setting it in the oven ; do not let it 
cook. Take the balls of cream on a silver fork, and cover 
with the melted chocolate. 

Cream Candy. 

Two pounds granulated sugar, one cup cold water, two 
tablespoon fuls of vinegar, and one of butter. Boil in small 
kettle, and do not stir while boiling. When it boils with 
large bubbles, take a little out and drip in cold water : if it 
snaps by biting, it is done. Have ready two well-buttered 
plates, and pour it out quick ; do not allow it to drip ; add a 
teaspoonful of vanilla to each plate ; when cool, take it up 
quickly, and work it without twisting until it is dry and 
brittle; then cut and put on candy trays not buttered. Great 
care must be taken not to touch it while on the plates until 
you can commence to work it, or it will go back to sugar. A 
small piece of gum arabic dissolved improves it. 



110 CANDY, 

Molasses Candy. 

Two cups of New Orleans molasses, one cup of sugar, one 
tablespoonful of vinegar, piece of butter size of hickory nut. 
Boil until it snaps when tried in water, cool on plate, and take 
it up as hot as possible to work; work it very fast; do not 
twist it. When dry and brittle get it as thin as possible and 
cut. 

Molasses Taffy. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, a piece of butter the 
size of an Qgg. Boil hard and test in cold water; when brittle 
pour into thin cakes on buttered tins ; as it cools mark in 
squares with the back of a knife. 

Peanut Taffy. 

One quart peanuts slielled and pounded fine, one pound 
good hrow7i sugar; one teaspoonful lemon juice or one-half 
lemon, one piece of butter size of an Qgg, one small teacupful 
of water. Put all into sugar and boil. AYhen firm in water, 
stir in peanuts and spread at once very thin on tins oiled with 
olive oil. 

Chocolate Caramels. 

One cup of Fry's grated chocolate, one cup of molasses, one 
cup of brown sugar, one cup of milk, a piece of butter the 
size of a small ^gg. Put all the ingredients in a kettle to 
boil, adding one tablespoonful of glycerine, and boil fast. 
When nearly done, add the chocolate; test it by dropping 
into cold water, and when done pour into buttered pans. 
When cool, mark into blocks with the back of a knife. 



CANDY. Ill 

Peanut Candy. 

Two cups of molasses, one cup of brown sugar, one table- 
spoonful of butter, and one of vinegar. Having rubbed the 
skin from the peanuts, put them into buttered pans, and when 
the candy is done pour over the nuts. Cut into blocks while 
warm. 

Butter Scotch. 

One cup of brown sugar, one-half cup of water, one tea- 
spoonful of vinegar, piece of butter the size of a walnut. 
Boil about twenty minutes ; flavor if desired. 

Pop-Corn Balls. 

Two cups of molasses, one cup of brown sugar, one table- 
spoonful of vinegar, a piece of butter the size of a small ^gg. 
Make the candy in a large kettle ; pop the corn, salt it, and 
sift it through the fingers, that the extra salt and unpopped 
kernels may drop through. (It will take four quarts or more 
of corn that is popped.) Then stir all the corn into the 
kettle that the candy will take, heap it on buttered platters 
or make it into balls. 

Walnut Cream. 

Make a ball of French cream about size of a walnut, and 
place a half-nut meat on either side of the ball, pressing it 
into the cream. Other nut creams may be made by chopping 
the meats fine, and working into French cream and cutting 
into bars. 



112 CANDY. 

Macaroons. 

Blanch one-half pound of almonds. When dry pound 
them fine ; beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff frotli ; add 
one-half pound of white sugar and the almonds ; flavor with 
extract of bitter almonds ; drop a small teaspoonful in a place 
on buttered paper; sift soft sugar over them, and bake slowly 
half or three-quarters of an hour. 



11 



SUNDRIES. 

For a Burn. 

Cover as soon as possible with common baking soda. 

Cure for Felon. 

It is claimed that felons may be cured in their early stages 
by frequent applications of iodine. 

For Stings. 

Ammonia and sweet oil in equal parts, shaken well together, 
will allay the irritation of mosquito and other insect stings, 
and neutralize their poison. 

For Reducing Swellings. 

Equal parts of sweet oil and iodine. Paint frequently with 
a camel's-hair brush. 

Cold Cream for Chapped Hands. 

Equal parts of mutton tallow, glycerine, and castor oil. After 
the tallow is tried out, which must be done with care, pour 
in a cup to cool. After it is thoroughly cold, scrape fine with 
a knife into a stirring bowl, then work the castor oil in and 
slowly add the glycerine, beating it into a smooth cream; 
perfume with oil of roses. It will cure the worst case of 
chapped hands, and will not irritate a child like glycerine. 



114 • SUNDRIES. 

For Inflammatory Rheumatism. 

Equal parts of laudanum, turpentine, and sweet oil. Rub 
in very thoroughly. 

To Remove Discoloration from Bruises. 

Apply a cloth wrung out in hot water, and renew frequently. 
Or, apply a piece of raw beef. 

Antidote to Poison. 

For any poison swallow instantly a glass of cold water, with 
a heaping teaspoonful of common salt and oue of ground 
mustard stirred in. This is a speedy emetic. When it has 
acted, swallow the whites of two raw eggs. 

Marioi^ Harland. 

Insects. 

Hot alum water, it is claimed, will destroy red and black 
ants, cockroaches, and all the crawling pests that infest our 
houses in warm weather. Take two pounds of alum, and 
dissolve it in three or four quarts of boiling water ; let it stand 
on the stove till the alum is all melted, then apply while hot 
with a brush to every joint and crevice where you suspect 
there may be vermin. 

To Stone Raisins. 

Pour over them boiling water, and the seeds can easily be 
removed. 

To Remove Paint. 

Equal parts of ammonia and spirits of turpentine will take 
paint out of clothing, though it be dry and hard. Saturate 
the spot two or three times, and then wash it in soap-suds. 



SUNDRIES. 115 

Ink and Iron Rust Stains. 

Such stains can generally be removed from white cloth with 
oxalic acid ; wash immediately. 

Mildew. 

Take lemon juice mixed with an equal weight of salt, 
powdered starch, and soft soap; rub thickly on the spots, 
renewing two or three times a day until the spots disappear. 

To Wash White Flannel. 

Dissolve borax, one tablespoonful for each three quarts of 
warm water. Let the goods soak in this an hour, turning 
over frequently. If much soiled, add a little white soap to 
the water, and rub with the hands. Einse, and shake out 
well. 

To Clean Straw Matting; 

Wash with a cloth dipped in clean salt and water; then 
wipe dry at once. 

Oil Stains. 

Put magnesia over the oil spot, and place it in the sun. If 
this does not remove the stain, pour alcohol on the spot; 
then put magnesia on, and place in the sun. Eepeat the 
process if necessary. 

Grease from Marble. 

Mix sal soda with two parts of quick lime in powder, 
moisten the mixture with soft cold water; coat the marble 
with this, and let it remain twelve hours. Then wash with 
water and a little soap. 



116 SUNDRIES. 

Student Lamps. 

The flame in these lamps will sometimes flicker. If the 
chimney is raised a trifle from the bottom of the socket, so 
that the draft will reach the flame, the flickering will cease. 



THE SIGE-ROOM * 

Never keep fruit, food, or drinks in the room. Xot only is 
the appetite generally lessened for them, but the fevered 
atmosphere of the sick-room passes readily into the composi- 
tion of food. 

The food should be of the best quality, and neatly and deli- 
cately prepared. 

Do not consult invalids about the meal, and, if possible, 
leave them alone while eating. 

Make the food as attractive as possible by the use of the 
cleanest of napkins, the daintiest china, and brightest silver in 
your possession. 

Do not admit many people to the room of a very sick per- 
son. Visitors with the kindest intentions in the world fre- 
quently undo all the work of the most skillCul physician and 
nurse. Sensible people never take offense at not being allowed 
to enter the sick-room, especially if quiet and freedom from 
all excitement are the orders of the attending physician. 

Have the room well ventilated. Fresh air is one of the 
best aids nature can have in overcoming disease. The nurse 
should be very careful to see that the air which has passed 
over the patient is not taken into her own lungs. 

Perfect cleanliness, both of patient and room, is very essen- 
tial. Even more in sickness than in perfect health, as in the 
former case every facility for the excretion of waste matter 
is of almost vital importance, and materially hastens recovery. 

* By permission of Rome Hospital. 



118 THE SICK-ROOM, 

Scraped Beef. 

Take a good piece of raw steak, lay it on a meat board, and 
witli a knife scrape into fine bits. After removing all hard 
and gristly parts, pnt into a pan over the fire, and let it remain 
jnst long enough to become thoroughly heated through, stir- 
ring it from the bottom occasionally. Season with a little 
salt. 

For indigestion, sprinkle cayenne pepper over the food. 

Beef Tea. 

Take a pound of the juicy round of beefsteak, cut into thin 
strips an inch long, put into a saucepan, and first cover with 
cold water ; set over the stove where it will warm gradually. 
AVhen it comes to a boil, let it boil five minutes ; pour off and 
put in salt. 

Beef Tea. 

One-half pound of perfectly lean beef placed in a can or 
large- mouthed bottle ; add one-half cup of cold water, and 
cork tightly. Place this on sticks in a kettle of cold water ; 
bring to scalding-point ; keep in this condition two hours, 
then strain and season with salt. 

Beef Tea. 

Take a pound of lean beefsteak, and broil it for an instant 
on both sides. Chop fine as for mince meat, then add a quart 
of water, and boil slowly for an hour and a half. Strain, let 
it get thoroughly cold, skim off the fat, and season with salt, 
pepper, and, if the doctor permits, a very little tomato catsup. 
A little rice boiled with the tea makes it nice, or a sprig of 
celery dropped in to lend a flavor. This soup is admirable 
food, and almost all sick persons will be found to like it. 



THE SICK-ROOM. 119 

Beef Juice. 

Heat a thick steak on the gridiron over the coals, and when 
lieated sufficiently to free the juice, squeeze it in a lemon- 
squeezer. Eat with small pieces of ice. 

Mutton Broth. 

Take a shank of lamb (break tlie bones well), put in a tin 
pail that has a tiglit cover ; add one quart of water, and boil 
until the meat drops from the bones. Strain and add salt to 
taste. One tablespoonful of rice is nice to boil with it if the 
patient is able to take solid food. All broths should have the 
fat carefully removed. 

Chicken Broth. 

Pound one-half chicken until the bones are thoroughly 
broken; add three pints of cold water ; heat slowly to boiling 
point; skim and let simmer three hours; salt and strain. A 
little tapioca or rice may be boiled with the chicken if desired. 

Clam Broth. 

When the patient is extremely nauseated by food, strong 
clam juice will frequently aflPord great relief. Open the clams, 
preserving all the juice carefully ; add equal amount of water, 
and boil ten minutes; flavor with salt only; remove the clams 
and serve hot or cold as the patient prefers. 

Sago Gruel. 

A heaping tablespoonful of sago washed in several (slightly 
warm) waters; put this into a coffee-cup of water; when boiled 
up clear, put in half a teacup of milk; as soon as scalded, take off 
and add one or two tablespoonf uls of thin cream ; salt to taste. 



120 THE SICK-ROOM. 

Indian Meal Gruel. 

One quart of boiling water ; stir in one tablespoonful of flour 
and two of Indian meal, wet in a little cold water. Boil thirty 
minutes ; season with salt and strain. Use sugar and cream 
if desired. 

Toast Water. 

Slices of bread dried thoroughly and nicely browned ; pour 
over enough boiling water to cover them ; let them steep until 
cold, keeping closely covered ; strain, sweeten to taste ; put a 
piece of ice in a glassful. 

Lemon Drink. 

Place in a glass the white of one egg, one tablespoonful of 
granulated sugar, juice of one-half a lemon, and All glass two- 
thirds full of ice (about as large as small walnuts) and cold 
water ; shake with lemonade shaker until the glass is full. The 
result will form both a nourishing and ap^^etizing beverage. 

Flaxseed Lemonade. 

Four tablespoonfuls of flaxseed, one quart of boiling water ; 
let it remain in covered dish three hours. When cold, add the 
juice and rind of two lemons, and sweeten to taste. Take ice- 
cold. 

Flaxseed Tea. 

One-half pound each of flaxseed and rock-candy, three 
lemons pared and sliced, over which pour two quarts boiling 
water. Let it stand until very cold, and strain before drink- 
ing. Excellent for a cough. 

Kumyss. 

Put into a self-sealing pint bottle one tablespoonful sugar, 
one-sixth of a Fleischmann's compressed yeast cake, and fill the 



THE SICK-BOOM. 121 

bottle to within three inches of the top with new m and 
seal. Let it remain in a warm place nine hours, shaking fre- 
quently, at least once an hour. Then let it stand in a cold 
place for three hours, when it will be ready for use. 

Cough Syrup. 

One ounce each of licorice root, flaxseed, slippery elm, 
thorough wort, and anise seed ; steep until all the strength is ex- 
tracted ; strain, and add one pint of molasses and one pound 
of white sugar ; simmer to a quart. 

Mustard Plasters. 

A few drops of sweet oil or lard rubbed lightly over the sur- 
face of a mustard plaster will prevent it from blistering the 
skin. 



"OUR TRADE-MARK" 

Hams and fioneless Bacon 




•'OUR CONSTANT AIM IS TO MAKE THEM THE 
FINEST IN THE WORLD." 



F. A. FERRIS & COMPANY. 

13 



GOLD BRAND. 



Established 1842. 




Gold 



Bran 



D 



IREATEST CARt 

CLEANLINESS 

^ IN ^ 

Tierces, Tubs, Buckets, and Tin Pails. 



GEO. C. NAPHEYS & SON, 



310 to 320 Spruce Street, 
PHILADELPHIA. 

For Sale by all Grocers and Provision Dealers. 

NEW PACKAGE-GLASS JARS. 

5 lbs. and 3 lbs. 

The most Convenient, Clean, and Useful Package in 
-w^hich Lard has ever been put up. 



HOTVYE-TVTPlDE 



PRESERVES, 



JELLIES, 

AND 
ORANGE 

MARMALADE. 




. 2-LB. WHITE STONE. Manufactured by ^LB. glass. 

Paisley, Scotland. 

Importing Agents: 61 HUDSON ST., NEW YORK. 

FOR SALE BY ALL GROCERS. 



A 



N UNBROKEN RECORD OF SUCCESS 



DURYEA'S GLEN COVE MANUFACTURING CO. 

Received tlie Only Gold Medal, over all competitors, at tlie Paris 

Exposition, 1878, 



DURYEA'S 

SATIN GLOSS STARCH 

Gives a beautiful, white, glossy, and lasting finish. No other Starch 
so easily used or so economical. 



DURYEA'S 

IMPROVED CORN STARCH 

From the best selected Indian Corn, and warranted perfectly pure. 



DtJRYEA'S STARCH, 

in every instance of competition, has received the highest award. In 
addition to Medals, many Diplomas have been received. The following 
are a few of the characterizing terms of award : 

At London, 1862, for quality, " EXCEEDINGLY EXCELLENT." 

At Paris, 1867, " " PERFECTION OF PREPARATION." 

At Paris, 1878, " "BEST PRODUCTION OF ITS KIND." 

At Centennial, 1876, for "NOTABLE FOR ABSOLUTE PURITY." 

At Brussels, 1876, for "REMARKABLE EXCELLENCE." 

At Franklin Institute, Penn., "FOR SUPERIOR MERIT, not alone as 

being the best of the kind exhibited, but 
as the best known to exist in the market 
of American production." 

^or gale by Qrocers Generally. 




^^^2 



HORNBY'S 

STEAM-COOKED 

MIlltlttGfflto 

SHIP STORCS^O FOOD AT SEA. 

(OAT MEAU> 




Offices : 7 1 and 73 Park Place, N. Y. City, 



18 



WHAT IS "REXWHEAT"? 

Rexwheat is pure wheat and nothing else. 

It is prepared from the finest winter wheat by onr patent 
process which PRESERVES all the NUTRITIOUS nnd 
HEALTH-GIVING PROPERTIES of this great cereal in 
most appetizing and delicious form. 

For MANY MONTHS it has been nnder CAREFUL 
TEST by PHYSICIANS, MOTHERS, DIETARIANS, and 
EPICURES with the following invariable results : 

PHYSICIANS RECOMMEND IT in their private and 
hospital practice, MOTHERS find it the best food for their 
CHILDREN, who ENJOY it and THRIVE on it when 
REFUSING other grain foods. 

DIETARIANS have discovered that it aids digestion, in- 
sures regularity of bowels, and builds up the system. Is a 
tonic to both body and mind. 

EPICURES call it the ^^KING OF GRAIN FOODS." 

"REXWHEAT'' 

makes the most delicious ^'mush" — hot, cold, and fried — 
the sweetest graham gems and brown bread, and finest muffins 
and griddle cakes. It is not only easily digested in all its 
forms, but IT POSITIVELY AIDS DIGESTION. 

^' Rexwheat" can be substituted for all purposes for which 
Cracked Wheat, Oatmeal, Graham Flour, etc., are used. 

Sold only in two-pound packages. Cooking directions in 
each package. 

The PATENT CEREALS CO., 45 Pearl St, New York. 



rsUPERIOR NUTRITION THE LIFE" 





i»oqD 



PEG'S'O 



This Okiginal and AVokld-eenowned Dietetic 

Preparation is a substance of 

IINRIVm I Ffl f^^'^y ^"^ medicinal -worth— potent for 

JUIIIiHLLlU QQQd (Dfd powerless to harm. A solid 

extract, derived by a new process from very 

superior growths of wheat — nothing more, and as a 

Cnnn it would be difficult to conceive of anything 

fUUUi niore wholesome and delicious. It has justly 

acquired the reputation of being tlie salvator 

FORmiDUNDTiEiicEii-.i-rf^ru:: 

growth and protection of 
IIIIFIIMT^ fliyn run DRPN • ^ superior nutritive In 
I1UH11I0 HI1U UniLUnCIl I continued fevers, the most 

nourishing and strengthening food for 

NOfiSmG MOTHERS 4 CONVALESCENISi r^^ld^rlgen: 

in all diseases of the stomach and intestines. 

John Carle Sl Sons, New York, 



READY FOR 
REQUIRE ONLY HEATING 



cc 


-><i- 


u 


• 


X 


<n 


1- 


LJ 


o 


>1 


>- 


U 


z 


(/) 


< 


Z 


X 


UJ 


h- 


X 




1— 


^ 


q: 


z 


o 


o 


U- 


t/> 


:^ 


a: 


< 


< 


LU 


a: 


Q. 


z: 


(O 


8 




< 


^ 


z 


CO 


< 


D 


-J 


O 
O 
O 


cc 


Ld 

X 


< 


1- 


DC 

o 


(0 


IJ- 


Q 




Z 
< 


< 

■ i 


DC 

m 



u 



>-: 



QCt 



2 Oui 
<£> oo 



< UJ 
OQ 



DQ 



li-Q. 



UJ 



oo' 



(5"lUJ0Q 

-J 21 'jJ F^ 









O UJ 

t/0 z 



UJ 



;<C O 



^oy 



O 



U 



■u 



gaCt 



o 



<Qc: 



u 



3 0: 



CCft 



QQ 



,a: cc 



FP 



XUJ 



!ob 



UJ 



UJ 



iw ^q: 



cc 



OQ 



QD 



O Ld U 

a: Lij X 

Q. QC 



o 

z 

UJ 



?a; 



O^ QC cc 



uJLJ 



< I 



zz 






(TJ 



W^o^. 



sAV&l 



QNV 



SIIV9 J.3 jjna 'o "v ' 

NVN1ind IIV NO a3All3S 



w< 


ko 


u< 


uz 


o< 


fldu 


U O 


u < 


Zm 


SSU 


S!< 


Wi- 


•-1(0 


lao 


Xu 


ht 


tei 


— ^ Ul 


a E 


^ •- 


O fe 






L.Ar^FllCE 

BORDEAUX 



L. A. PRICE'S 

IMPERIAL OLIVE OIL. 

MONOGRAM BRAND- 

FEW people appreciate the WIDE 
difference in the flavor and rich- 
ness of the various brands of Olive 
OiL Some do not obtain OLIVE Oil 
when they order it. The MONOGRAM 
Brand is pure and unadulterated, rich 
in flavor, yet smooth and delicate. It 
is sold by the leading retail grocers. 

PITTED OLIVES 




A 



RE a comparative 
novelty in the mar- 
ket. They are the large 
QUEEN Olive, pitted, 
and then stuffed with a 
Crescent Olive in place 
of the usual unsightly pit. They are 
sold by leading retailers, and the 
MONOGRAM Brand is superior to 
others. 

li. fl. Pt^IGE, Bordeaux, ppanee. 

. Importing Agents: 

61 HUDSON STREET, NEW YORK. 




Established id 18:6. 




POTTED MEATS, LUNCH MEATS, BONELESS HAMS. 

ROLLED OX TONGUE, GAME, CURRIED FOWL, 

BONED TURKEY, BONED CHICKEN, 

TRUFFLED CHICKEN LIVERS. SOUPS, PLUM PUDDING, 

EXTRA QUALITY PEACHES AND PEARS, &C. 

J^^'Xo solder used inside the Can. No acid 
ever used in soldering the Cans. 

We make no pretension to cheap prices, but 
guarantee quality of every Can. 

Sold by all first-class Grocers. 

KICHARDSON & ROBBINS, Dover, Delaware 




The followiiiL;' Heads of the Great Universities and Public Food Analysts having 
analyzed Or. Price's Cream Baking Powder, find it the Strongest, Purest, and Health- 
iest; Free from Ammonia, Free from Lime, Free from Alum, and every Drug Taint, 
and recommend it with Dr. Price's Delicious Flavoring Extracts for general family use. 

Prof. R. OGDEN DOREMUS, M.D., LL.D.. Bellevue Medical College, New York. 

Prof. H. C. WHITE, State Chemist, University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia. 

Prof. R. C. KEDZIE, Late President State Board of Health, Lansing, Mich. 

Prof. H. M. SCHEFFER, Analytical Chemist. St. Louis, Mo. 

Prof. CHARLES E. DWIGHT, Analytical Chemist, Wheeling, W. Va. 

Prof. JAMES F. BABCOCK, Slate Assay er. Boston, Mass. 

Dr. ELIAS A. BARTLEY, B.S., Chemist to the Dept. of Health, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Prof. CURTIS C. HOWARD, M.Sc, Starling Medical College, Columbus, Ohio. 

Prof. JOHN M. ORDWAY, Mass. Institute of Technolosry, Boston. 

Prof. R. A. WITTHAUS, A.M., M.D., University of Buffalo, N. Y. 

Prof. A. H. SABIN, State Chemist, Burlington, Vt. 

Prof. JOHN BOHLANDER. Jr., A.M., M.D., Professor Chemistry and Toxicology, 

College Medicine and Surgery, Cincinnati, O. 
Profs. AUSTEN & WILBUR, Profs. Chemistry, Rutgers College, New Brunswick, N. J. 



-«w» s 






"fid 



