TX 







GIFT OF 

THOMAS HUTHERFORD BACON 

MEMORIAL LIBRARY 




* 



HARTFORD 

ELECTION CAKE 

AND 

OTHER RECEIPTS 

CHIEFLY FROM MANUSCRIPT SOURCES, 



COLLKCTED 1!Y 



ELLEN TERRY JOHNSON. 



PUBLISHED FOR THE BENEFIT OF 

ST. PETER 'S-IN-THE-MOUNT, HOLDERNESS, N. II. 



HARTFORD, CONN.: 

THE FOWLER & MILLER Co, PRINTERS, 341 MAIN STREET. 
JUNE, 1889. 



receipts included in this collection are chiefly 
taken from manuscript sources Others are either 
framed by the collector or adapted from recipes already 
known. 

Others still are obtained from published authorities, 
and either modified or found to be so valuable, by 
practical experience, that they are reprinted here, by 
the kind permission of the authors. 

Every receipt in the little volume the compiler has 

knowledge is of value. 

E. T. J. 

No. 69 VERNON STREET, 

HARTFORD, CONN. 



SOUPS. 



STOCK FOR SOUP. 

BY PERMISSION OF CATHERINE E. OWEN 

THE following rule is suitable for the preparation of 
stock for soup, which can be modified in many 
ways. It cannot fail, if carefully followed, to produce 
the strongest meat broth, which will be a solid jelly 
when cold, and which, in the estimation of many 
physicians, is preferable to beef tea for the use of the 
sick. 

Put a shank of beef or veal, or both, into a soup-pot, 
with cold water, allowing a quart of water for each 
pound of meat, and salt in the proportion of a half tea- 
spoonful to each quart of liquid. Let the soup simmer 
on the back of the stove for two hours ; skim carefully. 
Put a full teaspoonful of butter into a very hot frying- 
pan ; stir until it begins to brown, then fry in it a small 
onion, half a small carrot, half a turnip, and a stick 
or two of celery, if convenient, chopped moderately 
fine. When fried a light brown, add the vegetables to 
the soup; boil slowly three hours more. Remove from 
the fire, strain through fine sieve ; set away until next 

284708 



4 Reitipts. 

day, when the soup should be a solid jelly from which 
every particle of fat can be removed. 

For use, take a portion of the jelly, melt it in a small 
kettle, and add, if it is desired to have the soup colored, 
a teaspoonful of burnt sugar ; if necessary, add more 
salt and pepper. Let it boil up once, and, having 
carefully skimmed the soup, serve in a hot tureen. 

If rice is used to thicken the soup, boil it beforehand 
in a separate saucepan, and, while hot, put into the 
soup as it is near boiling point. If maccaroni or 
French paste are used, boil as directed for rice. 

Always have the tureen hot before pouring in the 
soup. If sliced hard-boiled egg or lemon is used, or 
wine, place them in the tureen and pour the soup over 
them. 

A shank of beef weighing six pounds will make soup 
for twelve people. If clear, serve with croutons. 

CROUTONS. Put a teaspoonful of butter into a very 
hot frying-pan ; cut some dry bread into small squares 
or dice. When the butter is beginning to brown, add 
the bread, a little at a time; fry lightly; drain on a 
napkin, and serve in a warm dish. 

Croutons are sometimes merely dry bread, toasted 
slowly until quite brown, and cut into dice. Serve in 
a warm dish. 



Soups. 5 

CALF'S HEAD SOUP. 

MRS. THOS. BELKNAP. 

One calf's head. The head will have been thoroughly 
cleaned at the butcher's, but should be carefully 
washed again. Remove the brains and tongue ; tie the 
brains in a bit of muslin. Put the head, brains, and 
tongue in a pot ; cover with four quarts of water ; boil 
three or four hours. Strain the stock through a sieve, 
and set it away until the next day. Pick the meat 
from the bones; cover the bones with water, and boil 
three hours. Strain the broth, and add it to the jellied 
stock an hour or two before serving, with a quart can of 
tomatoes. Add also the bits of meat previously 
picked from the bones, and cut into dice, and season 
with one tablespoonful of whole cloves, one table- 
spoonful of whole allspice, one tablespoonful each of 
summer-savory and sweet marjoram, one tablespoonful 
of salt, one small onion, chopped fine. Boil gently an 
hour or so. Just before serving, stir into the boiling 
soup three tablespoonfuls of browned flour, mixed with 
a little stock or butter. Put into the tureen two hard- 
boiled eggs, sliced, and one lemon, sliced thin. Pour 
the soup over the egg and lemon. A wineglass of 
sherry or brandy may be added to the lemon and egg. 



6 Receipts. 

CLAM SOUP. 

E. T. J. 

Chop rather fine a quart of clams. Add to the 
liquor double the quantity of water. Let it simmer 
slowly on the back of the stove an hour, skimming 
carefully. Add the chopped clams. Let it cook 
slowly half an hour more. Add a pint of new milk, 
which, if not very carefully done, will result in curd- 
ling. Let the soup get very hot, but not boil. As 
you pour into the tureen, put in two teaspoonfuls of 
butter. 

Cream, if used instead of milk, must be put in the 
hot tureen and the boiling soup poured over it, as, if 
heated, it will be apt to curdle. 

CLEAR SOUP. 

MRS. GEORGE HOADLEY. 

Melt the stock jelly in a bright saucepan. If neces- 
sary, add more salt and pepper. Color with a tea- 
spoonful of burnt sugar. Add the white and shell of 
one egg. When boiling, skim carefully; every particle 
of solid matter will be thus removed, and the soup be 
clear as sherry. Serve with croutons. 



Soups. 7 

CRANBERRY BEAN SOUP. 

E. T. J. 

The cranberry bean will be found preferable for 
soup to the turtle bean, ordinarily employed. 

Soak one pint of cranberry beans over night. Boil 
the next morning in water until very soft. Drain off 
the water and rub the beans through a sieve. Add to 
the beans two quarts of stock. Season with a quarter 
teaspoonful of pepper, a half teaspoonful of salt, a 
tenth of a teaspoonful of powdered clove, or less. 
Let it boil up once. Put into the tureen two hard- 
boiled eggs and a small lemon, both sliced thin, and 
half a wineglassful of sherry. Pour the soup over 
them. 

If you have no stock, boil a half pound of pork in 
two quarts of water one hour. To this the strained 
beans are added. If too salt, pour off the water once 
from the pork and add fresh. When in the tureen, 
stir in a large teaspoonful of butter. The pork can be 
cut into small dice and served with the soup, or sent 
whole to table on a platter. 

CREAM SOUPS. 

MTSS CORSON. 

By the old method the preparation of cream soups 
was a long and difficult process, but by following Miss 



Receipts. 



Corson's rule, an excellent white soup, in numberless 
varieties, can be prepared, when vegetables are em- 
ployed. 

Put any cold cooked vegetable, such as potato, 
young beets, tomato, peas, beans, carrots, rice, through 
a sieve, until you have a cupful. Put a tablespoonful 
butter and a tablespoonful of flour, rubbed together, 
into a hot saucepan. Stir over the fire until smooth 
and bubbling, but not brown. Stir into it, gradually, 
a pint of hot milk and a pint of hot water, mixed all 
milk is better. Stir until quite free from lumps, then 
add the vegetable pulp, the salt and pepper. Let it 
get very hot, but not boil. Pour into hot tureen. If 
rice is used, a little celery, boiled and strained out, 
may be added. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

E. T. J. 

Peel and cut in small pieces one quart of tomatoes. 
Stew in a pint of water, gently, on the back of the stove, 
for about an hour. When the tomato is thoroughly 
soft, strain through a sieve. Return to fire. When at 
boiling point, stir in two tablespoon fuls of butter, 
mixed with a tablespoonful of flour, a scant teaspoon- 
ful of salt. Add a quart of milk or a pint of cream; 
let it boil up a moment, then serve. 



FISH. 

DEVILLED CRABS. 

MRS. H. W. CLOSSON. 

A LTHOUGH fresh crabs are always preferable, when 
-* they can be had, those put up by the Hampton, 
Virginia, companies are a very good substitute. The 
crab shells always accompany each can of crab meat, 
but, as they are very brittle, there is always danger of 
bits of the broken shell becoming mixed with the 
food. The china fish or shells are safer. To the con- 
tents of one can of crab meat add three finely- 
powdered Boston crackers, or four tablespoon fuls of 
cracker meal, three tablespoon fuls of melted butter, or 
olive oil (the butter is better), the grated peel and 
juice of one lemon, two tablespoon fuls of vinegar, one 
hard-boiled egg, chopped fine, one well-beaten raw 
egg, half a teaspoonful of mustard (flour), half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a little pepper, red and white. 

Mix thoroughly, fill the china fish or shells, scat- 
ter cracker crumbs over the top, and thickly dot it 
with bits 'of butter. Baste with a little cold water 



10 Receipts. 



before going into the oven. Bake fifteen minutes, or 
until brown. This quantity will fill ten fish or shells. 

DEVILLED CLAMS. 

MRS. HARNICKLE. 

Remove the hard part from long clams. Drain 
them and chop fine. Mix with the clams the same 
quantity of fine bread crumbs. Season with pepper ; 
no salt will be needed, in all probability. Melt a 
piece of butter, in the proportion of two tablespoon- 
fuls to a dozen clams. Wet the mixture with this 
and enough of the clam juice to make it quite moist, 
but not liquid. Wash the clam shells and rub them 
dry. Butter them and fill with the clam mixture, 
scattering fine bread crumbs over the top. Sprinkle 
a little water over them, and stud the surface of each 
with small bits of butter. Set the shells in a dripping- 
pan, and bake twenty minutes. Serve hot, on a nap- 
kin spread on a platter. 

DEVILLED CLAMS, No. 2. 

MRS. JUDGE PARKER. 

Take twenty-five clams. Save the liquor. Chop 
the clams fine, and add four hard-boiled eggs, chopped, 
a quarter of the soft part of a medium-sized loaf of 
bread, soaked in milk; a little parsley, a large table- 



Fish. 11 


spoonful melted butter, salt and pepper to taste, one 

onion, chopped fine. Put in enough of the clam liquor 
to make the mixture moist, but not wet. Butter some 
well-washed shells, fill with the preparation of clams. 
Scatter bread crumbs over the top, dotted with bits of 
butter. Baste with a little water. Bake fifteen min- 
utes. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

MRS. JUDGE PARKER. 

One dozen clams, chopped fine, three potatoes, and 
one onion. Boil the vegetables in a pint of water, 
until tender; then add the chopped clams. Let them 
boil up. Add the juice of the clams. Roll two soda 
crackers, and put in the tureen with a tablespoon ful of 
butter. Boil one pint of milk and pour on the crackers, 
and then add the chowder. Season with salt and pepper. 

FRICASSEED OYSTERS. 

MRS. WM. EDWARDS. 

Separate a quart of count oysters from the broth j 
place the oysters in a tightly-covered saucepan, with a 
quarter of a pound of good butter. Set on the back 
of the stove, where it will simmer gently until the 
oysters are done. Cook the broth in another sauce- 
pan, with three tablespoon fuls of powdered cracker, and 



12 Receipts. 



a little pepper. When the oysters are done, remove 
them with a fork from the butter, place them on 
toasted crackers, on a platter. Add the butter to the 
oyster broth, let it boil up once, add a half pint of 
cream, and pour over the oysters. 

OYSTER PATES. 

The pate shells are best procured from a con- 
fectioner. 

Use small oysters, pour off half the liquor, cook 
slowly, on the back of the stove, adding to the oysters 
powdered cracker in the proportion of three spoon- 
fuls to a pint of liquid. Add a little white pepper. 
When the oysters are done, skim them out into a hot 
bowl. Cook the oyster broth ten minutes longer, until 
quite smooth and thick. Add a little cream, not 
enough to thin the broth, a very little nutmeg, and, as 
you take it from the fire, a good-sized bit of butter. 
Pour over the oysters. Heat the pate shells ; fill with 
the oysters and cream sauce, which can be also poured 
over the pate before sending to table, or only enough 
used to fill the cavity. The little cover should close 
the opening when the shell is filled. Serve on hot 
platter. 



fish. 13 

TURBOT A LA CREME. 

ADAPTED BY E. T. J 

Make a pint or more of white sauce. Pick to fine 
bits two pounds of cold boiled fresh cod, or other white 
fish. Fill a well-buttered pudding dish (the blue 
Japanese bowls are excellent for this purpose), mixing 
with the cod a half pint of oysters, chopped fine, and 
alternating the layer of fish with one of white sauce. 
Sprinkle a little salt over the layers of cod. Scatter 
bread or cracker crumbs over the top of the dish, when 
full, and little bits of butter. Baste, before going into 
the oven, with a little cold water. Cook twenty min- 
utes, or until the top is browned. 

TURBOT OR FISH AU GRATIN. 

ADAPTED BY E. T. J. 

Pick in flakes a pound and a half of cold boiled ood 
or halibut, or any firm white fish. Place a layer of it 
in a buttered dish ; cover it with a layer of white 
sauce, made by stirring two tablespoon fuls butter 
in a saucepan over the fire, adding a tablespoon ful 
of flour; when it bubbles, being stirred constantly, 
pour in a pint of milk or water, hot. Flavor 
with a little salt and a little lemon juice, a tea- 
spoonful, if desired. When quite thick, remove from 



14 Receipts. 



fire. Have two or three hard-boiled eggs, chopped 
fine ; scatter a little over the layer of sauce. Put more 
fish, sauce, and egg, alternately, until the dish is full. 
Scatter bread or cracker crumbs on top. Dot the 
crumbs with small bits of butter, and baste with a 
little milk or water, just as it goes into the oven. 
Bake until the top is brown, not over ten or fifteen 
minutes. 



MEATS. 



THE secret of properly roasting meat is to have a 
quick, hot fire on placing it in the oven, that the 
surface being at once scorched, may retain the juices. 
After half an hour's quick roasting, the heat should be 
gradually diminished, until the ordinary temperature 
for roasting meat is attained. All roast meats should 
be constantly basted with the contents of the dripping- 
pan, and poultry may be dredged with flour when 
put in the oven. Very thin slices of salt pork, not 
bacon, which imparts a smoky flavor, may be tied over 
the breast of game birds, and removed before serving. 

BRAISED BEEF. 

MRS. H. W. CLOSSON. 

Take a piece, four inches thick, of the round of 
beef, from the upper part; put it into a pot, with 
enough water to half cover it. Let it simmer gently 
three hours ; when thoroughly tender, remove the beef 
to a hot platter. Season the gravy in the pot with salt 
and pepper. Strain into it a pint of stewed tomato. 
Stir well, and let it boil up once. /Vdd a tablespoon* 



16 Receipts. 



ful of butter, and pour over the meat in the dish. If 
used a second day, take the meat only, warm it in a 
pint of stock; thicken this with stewed tomato and 
serve as before. 



CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

MRS. A. R. TERRY. 

Cut off the meat of two boiled or roast chickens, re- 
move skin and fat, and chop fine. Put a quarter of a 
pound of butter into a porcelain kettle; when it bub- 
bles up, stir in two tablespoonfuls flour, one teaspoon - 
ful salt, one teaspoonful of black pepper, two-thirds of 
a nutmeg, one teacup of chicken broth, the broth in 
which the chickens were cooked, boiled down to half 
its quantity, or a little soup made of the bones of the 
roast chickens off which the meat has been chopped ; 
mix well together; mould it with the hands into cro- 
quettes; dip each into beaten egg, then into fine 
cracker crumbs. Set them in a cool place, to harden, 
before frying light brown, in boiling lard. 

In frying croquettes, doughnuts, or Saratoga pota- 
toes, the first object to be attained is to have a large 
quantity of lard very hot, and kept at that point. The 
heat can be ascertained by dropping a bit of bread in. 



Meats. 17 



CHICKEN CROQUETTES, No. .2. 

MRS. GEORGE HOADLEY. 

Boil a chicken tender, remove skin and bones, and 
chop fine. Wet with some white meat soup or with 
drawn butter. Season with salt, pepper, mace, lemon 
peel and juice. Have the mixture as soft as it can be 
moulded. Dip in beaten egg, then in cracker crumbs, 
and fry in boiling lard. 

CHICKEN SHORTCAKE. 

MRS. ROSE TERRY COOKE. 

Joint and stew two fowls till tender, peppering them 
well. When done, carefully take the flesh from the 
bones, separating it from every bit of fat, skin, sinew 
or gristle. Return this to the gravy, and set aside 
till cold ; then skim off all the fat, pour off the gravy, 
put it in a saucepan, flavor it with salt, celery salt, 
and a little nutmeg. Melt a large spoonful of butter 
in a pan, stir into it two large spoonfuls of flour, 
till smooth; set the gravy aside, where it will not 
boil, and mix a little of it, slowly, with the flour and 
butter. Too much haste or heat will make lumps. 
When all is added to the gravy, return to the saucepan, 
and boil till it thickens well, stirring constantly. If 
onion is not disliked add a small one to the fowls, 



18 Receipts. 

during the first boiling, but skim it out of the gravy 
on leaving that to cool. Make a cake of one quart 
flour, \)ne teaspoonful salt, three teaspoons Royal bak- 
ing powder, butter size of an egg. Sift salt, flour, and 
powder together ; then rub in the butter and add milk, 
to make a soft dough. Roll out a thin square or 
oblong sheet, the size of your platter, and bake till 
well done. Cut the rest of the dough into very small 
rounds, and bake at the same time. When done, split 
the large cake, butter it, dip out the chicken with a 
strainer, heap it evenly on one-half the cake, cover 
with the other, and pour the gravy over all. Put the 
small biscuit about the edge of the platter, for garnish. 

CHICKEN SHORTCAKE, No. 2. 

MISS CHARLOTTE M. ELY. 

Mix two teaspoonfuls Royal baking powder with 
one pint of flour. Rub into it a small half cup of 
butter, and wet it with a cup of sweet milk. 

Bake in a quick oven, in a thin sheet. 

Proceed as in receipt given above. 

This shortcake receipt is excellent for use with straw- 
berries. It is quite as good with only one and a half 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder to the pint of flour. 



Meats. 19 

CHICKEN JELLY. 

BRIDGET PLUNKETT. 

Joint the chicken, cover it with water, and let it 
simmer, gently, until the meat will come from the 
bones easily. Strain, and set the liquid to cool. 
When cold, skim off the fat carefully; add half a box 
of gelatine, warming the chicken liquid slightly, to 
allow of its mixing. Pick the meat from the bones, 
cutting it in small pieces. Season with a little cay- 
enne, salt, and the juice of a lemon. Add two hard- 
boiled eggs and a lemon, cut in thin slices. Arrange 
in the mould in any fanciful pattern. Fill the mould 
with the prepared chicken, and pour the liquid over it. 

CHICKEN CURRY. 

A RESIDENT OF INDIA, THROUGH MISS KING. 

Two large teaspoonfuls turmeric powder ; one-third 
of a teaspoonful of shelled cardamon seeds; one small 
teaspoonful cayenne pepper; one teaspoonful fine salt; 
a few bits of cinnamon; a small piece of green ginger, 
sliced ; four small cloves of garlic ; one grated cocoa- 
nut ; one pint of milk. 

All the spices to be pounded separately, then well 
mixed, the grated cocoanut to be added. 



20 Receipts. 



Pour over these a pint of warm water, and let it 
simmer until the water is pretty well absorbed. Then 
add the milk, warm. 

Rub together a large tablespoonful of butter and a 
little flour, and brown it ; add to the other ingredients. 
The chicken must be well boiled, and then jointed and 
cut in pieces. Put it in the curry mixture ; let it boil 
up once, to thoroughly heat it. Stir the curry well 
before adding chicken. 

LUNCH DISH. 

MRS. HEMAN ELY. 

Take a pound of veal steak, removing skin and fat. 
Cover with a quart of water and let it slowly simmer 
until the liquid is reduced to one pint. Take out the 
meat, when very tender, cut it into dice. Prepare a 
mould, by first wetting it in cold water. Boil hard and 
slice thin two eggs, place them with the veal, and a few 
thin slices of lemon, in the mould, when the liquid is 
ready. Season with a half teaspoonful of salt, a tiny 
pinch of nutmeg, an eighth of a teaspoonful of pepper, 
a very little powdered clove. Strain the broth into 
the mould. Set on ice and turn out on a platter. 
Should the liquid refuse to jelly, reheat it and add to 
the above quantity an eighth of a box of Nelson's 
gelatine. 



Meats. 21 



LUNCH DISH. 

MRS. PECHIN. 

Boil tender two chickens; cut into dice the white 
meat and a little of the dark. Simmer gently, on the 
back of the stove, a quart of cream, with one very 
small onion, a little rhace, salt, and pepper. Thicken 
it with a tablespoonful of butter, stirred into a roux, 
with two teaspoonfuls of flour. The consistence of the 
liquid should be that of thick cream. Meanwhile, 
stew a can of French mushrooms, gently, for an hour, 
in a pint of stock, or until the liquid is reduced to less 
than half its original quantity. Boil, until tender, a 
pair of sweet breads or more, cut them in dice ; butter 
a large dish; place on the bottom a layer of the 
chicken, then of mushrooms, cut in half, then of sweet 
breads. Pour over it some of the thickened cream, 
and fill the dish with the alternate layers, in the order 
named. Scatter bread crumbs over the top, with little 
bits of butter. Bake an hour. 

TIMBALE. 

MISS PARLOA. 

Chop fine any kind of cold dark meat cold stewed 
beef, roast beef, veal, mutton, game. Mix with it a 
quarter teaspoonful of pepper, half a pickled onion, 
chopped fine, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a cup 



22 Receipts. 

of stock or milk, two tablespoonfuls of butter, melted 
while stirred constantly, to prevent oiling, half a cup- 
ful of fine bread crumbs, a half teaspoonful of salt. 
Mix the seasoning with the meat and bread crumbs. 
Add the stock and two well-beaten eggs. The eggs 
must be thoroughly incorporated with the mixture or 
it will present an unsightly appearance when cooked. 
Put into a well-buttered pan an oval charlotte russe 
pan is the best. Set it into a pan of boiling water; 
cover with a bit of buttered paper. Cook ten or fif- 
teen minutes. Turn out on a hot platter. A brown 
sauce may be poured over it, or it will be found very 
good without it. 

TO ROAST QUAILS. 

After thoroughly cleansing the birds, and, if desired, 
stuffing them with bread crumbs, salt and pepper, 
moistened with melted butter, tie thin slices of fat salt 
pork over the breast. Place them in a baking pan 
and set in a quick oven, basting them at first with a 
little melted butter, then with the drippings in the 
pan. Roast twenty or twenty-five minutes. Fifteen 
minutes before they are done, place a small square of 
buttered toast under each bird, to receive the gravy 
dropping from it. Send the quail to the table, each on 
its bit of toast, on a hot platter. 



Meats. 23 



RISSOLES. 

ADAPTED FROM MRS. HENDERSON. 

Roll a sheet of puff paste out a quarter inch thick ; 
make a preparation of minced chicken, veal, or the 
tenderloin of beef, cut very fine. Heat two or three 
tablespoonfuls of cream with the same quantity of stock; 
when very hot, stir into it a large teaspoonful of butter 
and the same quantity of flour, rubbed together. 
When quite smooth, add a quarter of a teaspoonful of 
pepper, a half teaspoonful of salt, a very little nutmeg. 
When the gravy is quite hot, add the meat. Let it get 
thoroughly hot, but not cook. 

Place teaspoonfuls of the mixture about three inches 
from the edge of the paste, three inches apart. Fold 
the paste over and strike the edge of the hand between 
each one. Cut out the rissoles with a small tumbler. 
Bake, in a very quick oven, five minutes. 

BEEF HASH. 

DAVID S. S. C. JONES. 

The prejudice against re-cooked meat is well founded. 
Meat served a second time should never be more 
than warmed over, and with this fact thoroughly under- 
stood, it will be found perfectly digestible. 

In preparing minced meat, stock should, if possible, 
be employed. But whether stock or water forms the 



24 Receipts. 



foundation of the gravy, it should be allowed to be- 
come boiling hot in the saucepan. Thicken it when 
boiling, with a roux of a tablespoonful of butter, rub- 
bed together with a full teaspoonful of flour, to a half 
pint of gravy. Let it bubble, stirring until quite 
smooth. Season with salt, pepper, and whatever spice 
may be appropriate to the meat used. Turn in the 
mince, stirring it well but lightly in. Let it become 
very hot, but not boil for a moment. Turn the hash 
out upon a hot dish, on buttered toast, 

Excellent hash can be made from cold steak, braised 
or roasted beef. Mince it finely, rejecting the skin and 
fat. Prepare the gravy of stock, as already described. 
Cold gravy should never be used in warming over 
meat. Warm the beef in the stock. Season with salt 
and pepper only. Serve on a hot dish, with a circle of 
hot boiled rice about it. 



VEAL MINCE. 

Chop the veal very fine. Make a gravy of a cup of 
stock. Season with salt, pepper, and a very little 
powdered mace or nutmeg. When very hot, thicken 
with a tablespoonful of butter, stirred with a scant 
teaspoonful of flour. When smooth, add the minced 
veal, and when hot, stir in a little cream, as you take 



Meats. 25 



it from the fire. Serve on slices of buttered toast, on 
a hot platter. Put thin slices of lemon on top. 

MUTTON HASH. 

DAVID S. S. C. JONES. 

Prepare the gravy as for beef hash. Cut the cold 
roast or boiled mutton in small pieces, with an 
equal quantity of cold boiled potato, removing skin 
and fat. The quantity of gravy should be greater 
for this than for mince. Only heat the meat and 
potato thoroughly, and serve in a hot dish. 

TURKEY HASH. 

PLATTSBURGH COOK BOOK. 

Two pounds cold roast or boiled turkey white meat 
only. Chop it rather fine, and chop with it one head 
of celery, boiled tender. 

Boil a quart of cream ; when boiling, add a little salt 
and pepper, thicken with a roux, then put in the turkey 
and celery. Let the mince become thoroughly hot, 
not boil ; then pour upon slices of buttered toast, 
upon a hot platter. 

Toast, for such purposes, should be well browned. 
Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter, by pouring upon it 
four tablespoonfuls of boiling water, and dip the slices 
of toast into it, that they may become somewhat soft. 
Use more butter and water, if you have a large number 
of slices. 



VEGETABLES. 



STEWED MACARONI. 

MRS. H. W. CLOSSON. 

BOIL tender half a pound of medium-sized macaroni ; 
when soft, add half a pound of cheese, broken in 
small pieces, and a little butter. Put in a hot dish, 
and, when serving, pour over the whole a pint of 
tomato sauce. 

STEWED MACARONI, No. 2. 

OLIVE HARPER. 

Cook one-third of a pound of macaroni in a pint 
of clear beef soup. Let it cook, gently, fifteen min- 
utes; add a saltspoonful salt. Take up the macaroni, 
put it on the dish in which it is to be served. Sprinkle 
grated cheese thickly over it. Pour over the whole a 
pint of tomato sauce, and send at once to table. 

SARATOGA POTATOES. 

MRS. VAN REED. 

Slice the potatoes very thin ; let them stand in ice- 
water for a few hours, changing the water three or four 



Vegetables. 27 



times. Spread the slices on a soft coarse towel. Have 
a frying-pan two-thirds full of lard a small, deep 
iron kettle is still better. Heat the lard very hot, 
testing it by dropping in it a bit of the potato ; if the 
fat is hot enough, the slice will immediately puff up 
and rise to the surface. Pull the slices of potato care- 
fully apart, and fry two dozen or so at a time. Turn 
them with a fork. They will be done in one minute, 
if the fat is sufficiently hot. Take them from the 
kettle with a skimmer; drain in a colander, or on 
sheets of blotting paper. Dust a little salt over them, 
while hot. 

SCOLLOPED POTATOES. 

MRS. GEO. WILLEY. 

Slice the raw potatoes thin into a well-buttered dish. 
Pour in enough milk to half fill the dish. Season with 
salt, and add a heaping tablespoonful of butter cut 
into little bits. Bake very slowly, covering the dish 
with a plate until twenty minutes before serving. Let 
it then color a pale brown. 

STUFFED POTATOES. 

DAVID S. S. C. JONES. 

Select large, smooth potatoes, as nearly as possible 
of a uniform size. Bake until thoroughly done, but 



28 Receipts. 



be careful not to over cook them. Cut the top care- 
fully off; with a small silver fork, scrape the contents 
of each potato into a warm bowl, taking care not to 
break the skin. Mash the potato with the fork, adding 
salt to taste, and a good teaspoonful of butter to each 
potato. When thoroughly mixed, return the potato to 
the skins, heaping it high, but not smoothing it. Set 
the potatoes up on end, in the dish in which you serve 
them ; return them to the oven to warm, but avoid 
browning them. 

If you prefer it, the covers can be replaced on the 
potatoes and retained by a narrow ribbon. 

These potatoes are excellent with broiled shad or 
pompanos. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

MRS. VAN REED. 

The southern method of stewing tomatoes is a great 
improvement upon the ordinary way. 

Put a large tablespoonful of butter into a very hot 
frying-pan ; when boiling, fry in the butter one-half 
an onion, or one small onion, chopped fine, to a light 
brown. Then pour into the pan a can of tomatoes, or 
a quart of the fresh vegetable, cut in small pieces. Let 
it stew gently an hour, seasoning it with salt and pep- 
per. Thicken with half a cup of fine bread crumbs. 



Vegetables. 29 



BAKED TOMATOES. 

MRS. C. A. TERRY. 

Butter a baking dish ; cover the bottom with a layer 
of tomatoes, cut in small pieces. On this place a layer 
of fine bread crumbs. Season this with pepper, salt, a 
very little nutmeg, and small bits of butter scattered 
over the bread. Repeat until the dish is full, having 
the top layer of bread crumbs, and thickly scattered 
with bits of butter. The top may be basted with a little 
cold water, before going into the oven. It will take a 
quarter of a pound of butter to properly prepare this 
dish. Bake an hour or more, covering the top with 
card-board for the first half hour. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

MRS. H. W. CLOSSON. 

Take fine, large tomatoes, of equal size ; cut out the 
stem end, and, with a sharp knife, remove a portion of 
the inside, leaving a quarter inch of thickness. Stuff 
with any kind of meat, chopped very fine, seasoned 
with salt and pepper, and mixed with a quarter its 
quantity of fine bread crumbs, made soft with 
melted butter. Set the tomatoes in a baking pan, put 
a little hot water in the bottom, to prevent burning ; 
baste, while baking, with a little melted butter and hot 
water, mixed. Serve in hot dish. 



BREAD, BISCUITS, ETC. 

BISCUIT. 

MRS. HOWARD. 

THE YEAST. Three quarts lukewarm water; a 
handful of hops ; three potatoes, boiled five 
minutes and grated ; one-third cup of salt ; one- 
third cup of sugar, white ; flour enough to make a thin 
batter. Boil the hops in the water, add the grated 
potato and flour; when cool, add one-half cup of 
yeast ; when white on the top, stir. 

THE BISCUIT. Two cups of milk ; one tablespoon- 
ful of butter ; one-half teaspoonful salt ; one table- 
spoonful sugar, white ; one-half cup of yeast. Make 
up the sponge early in the morning, and let it rise. 
When light, cut down and mould. Let it rise again, 
then mould into small rolls, place them in a pan, and 
let them rise an hour and a half, before baking. 

SOUTHERN CORN BREAD. 

MRS. THOS. WAYNE. 

One pint corn meal ; three eggs, beaten separately ; 
a small bit of butter; two teaspoonfuls of baking 



Bread, Biscuits, Etc. 31 

powder; one cup cold boiled rice or hominy; milk to 
make a thin batter. Bake in a loaf or in gem pans. 

SOUTHERN BISCUITS. 

MRS. THOS. WAYNE. 

One tablespoonful lard; one tablespoonful butter; 

cut up with a knife or rubbed fine with the tips of cool 
f $tffr< f/r 
ngers. Wet with milk or water, to make a dough like 

pie crust, mixing with a knife. Roll out very thin, 
cut with the top of a claret glass or small cutter. 
Prick and bake ten minutes, in a very hot oven. 

These are the true Southern short biscuits, without 
beating; crisp, light, and which will keep for weeks. 
They are excellent to take to sea, or upon a journey. 

In the hands of a Southern cook, they require no 
baking powder ; but it is safer to use a teaspoonful and 
a half of baking powder. 

The success depends upon the thinness of the biscuit 
and the heat of the fire. 

BEST CREAM PUFFS. 

MRS. B. F. D. ADAMS. 

One pint of cream; one pint flour; three eggs, 
beaten separately ; a half teaspoonful of salt. Bake 
in gem pans, in a very hot oven. 



32 Receipts. 



EGG PUFFS. 

MRS. JUDGE PARKER. 

One pint milk ; three eggs ; six tablespoon fuls flour. 
Beat well together. Bake in hot cups. 

BROWN BREAD. 

LYDIA TALBOT. 

Two cups unsifted rye flour ; two cups sifted Indian 
meal ; one cup sifted white flour ; three-quarters cup 
molasses; one teaspoonful salt; one pint of milk' 
and water; one teaspoonful soda. Steam four hours 
in mould. 

BROWN BREAD, No. 2. 

MRS. JUDGE PARKER. 

One pint warm milk; half a cup of molasses; one tea- 
spoonful soda, dissolved in a very little warm water ; 
half a teaspoonful salt. Stir in enough graham flour to 
make a stiff batter, as for bread. Add half a cake of 
compressed yeast. Beat long and hard. Let it rise 
over night. When light, stir in enough graham flour 
to make it like common bread. Put in pans to rise. 
Bake half an hour. 

This is a better rule for brown bread than is found in 
any receipt book. 



Bread, Biscuits, Etc. 33 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

MRS. JUDGE PARKER. 

Two cups corn meal ; one cup rye flour ; two cups 
sweet mlik; one cup sour milk; two-thirds cup 
molasses; one teaspoonful soda, put into the molasses; 
a little salt. Put in a round tin and steam three hours. 
Do not cover the pan. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

MISS WOOLSEY. 

One pint of milk or water; one pint of sifted gra- 
ham flour ; a half teaspoonful salt. Beat well. Heat 
the gem pans very hot. Bake in a very hot oven. 

BROWN SCONES. 

WASHINGTON COOKING SCHOOL. 

One pound wheaten flour ; six ounces butter ; a 
little salt. Wet with thick cream. Roll out and cut 
in thin cakes. Bake on a griddle. 

WHEAT MUFFINS. 

MRS. CHAS. A. TERRY. 

One quart sour milk; one tablespoonful melted 
butter; one tablespoonful sugar; one teaspoonful soda; 
two eggs, beaten separately; flour to make a thin 



34 Receipts. 



batter ; one cup cold boiled rice or hominy, broken up 
fine with a fork. Bake in hot muffin pans. 

These muffins can be made of sweet milk, using two 
small teaspoonfuls of baking powder, instead of soda. 

If two-thirds sour and one-third sweet milk is used, 
take three-fourths teaspoonful of soda, three-fourths 
spoonful of baking powder. 

WAFFLES. 

MRS. H. W. CLOSSON. 

One quart sweet milk ; one teacup cold boiled rice 
or fine hominy ; two eggs, well beaten ; one teaspoonful 
sugar ; two teaspoonfuls lard or butter, melted ; half 
teaspoonful salt ; one small teaspoonful soda : two 
small teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, or instead of these 
use two teaspoonfuls of baking powder ; flour to make 
a thin batter, about a pint or more. 



CA_KE. 

BOSWELL CAKE. 

MR. BOSWELL, EAST HARTFORD. 

N cups of flour ; six cups of sugar ; three cups of 
butter; eight eggs; three cups warm milk and 
one wineglass of rum in it ; one teaspoonful of soda, 
dissolved in a little of the milk; two pounds of raisins; 
nutmeg, or mace. Bake an hour and a half. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

MRS. C. A. TERRY. 

Half pound butter ; three-fourths pound flour ; one 
pound sugar; whites of fourteen eggs. Rub together the 
butter and flour. Add the sugar, which has been stirred 
lightly into the well-beaten whites of the eggs. Stir 
well. Flavor with bitter almond. Bake in oblong 
sponge-cake pans, with buttered paper. 

IMPERIAL CAKE. 

MRS. G. V. WEIR. 

One pound butter; one pound sugar; one pound 
flour; one pound raisins; three-fourths pound al- 



36 Receipts. 



monds, blanced and slit ; three-fourths pound citron ; 
one pound currants, if desired ; one wineglass of 
brandy and rose water (not extract of rose) ; the juice 
and rind of a lemon. Rub the butter and sugar to a 
cream, with a little rose water. One small teaspoonful 
mace improves the flavor. Beat the eggs separately. 

This makes three loaves. 

Bake, in a bread oven, about an hour. 

A third of a teaspoonful of soda, or less, improves it, 
as there is so much fruit in it. 

HARTFORD ELECTION CAKE YEAST. 

MRS. SHELDON. 

Three pints of water ; eight good-sized potatoes, 
peeled and cut in slices. 

Boil in the water with a small handful of hops, 
until tender. Rub through a sieve. Pour the boiling 
water in which the potatoes were cooked upon the 
strained potatoes, through a sieve. 

Stir in enough flour to make a stiff batter. 

Make the batter very sweet with brown sugar. 

Add a coffee cup of distiller's yeast. 

Let it rise twenty-four hours before using. 

Where the use of domestic yeast is impracti- 
cable, that obtained from the distillery can be sub- 
stituted. 



Cake. 37 

It has been claimed that the compressed yeast of 
modern use, is worthless for making election cake. 
This is incorrect, for although it is undoubtedly less 
successful, as a rule, still excellent loaf cake has been 
made of it. It requires a cake and a half of Fleisch- 
man's yeast to raise seven loaves of cake. 

ELECTION CAKE, No. 1. 

MRS. SHELDON. 

Eight pounds flour ; four and a quarter pounds 
butter ; four and a quarter pounds sugar ; five eggs ; 
one quart home-made yeast ; four pounds raisins ; one 
pound citron ; one ounce mace ; one ounce nutmeg ; 
new milk to make the batter sufficiently thin ; one 
tumbler mixed wine and brandy. 

Beat to a cream the butter and sugar. 

Mix half of it with the flour at two o'clock in the 
afternoon, wet with the new milk, slightly warm. The 
batter should be thinner than biscuit dough. Add 
the yeast; a little salt. Let it rise. When light, at 
night, add all other ingredients, with balance of butter 
and sugar. Let it rise again ; then put in pans, 
making ten medium-sized loaves. Let it rise an 
hour. 



38 Receipts. 



ELECTION CAKE, No. 2. 

MISS REBECCA BUTLER. 

Eight quarts flour ; three and a half pounds sugar ; 
three pounds butter ; five eggs ; one quart home-made 
yeast ; three quarts milk ; six pounds raisins ; half 
ounce mace ; half ounce nutmeg ; half pint wine. 

ELECTION CAKE, No. 3. 

MRS. LEWIS WELD. 

Four and a half pounds of flour; two and a half 
pounds of sugar ; two and a quarter pounds of butter ; 
four eggs ' y half ounce nutmeg ; half ounce mace ; one 
tumblerful brandy and wine ; two pounds raisins ; half 
pound citron. 

At noon, or early in the afternoon, begin making 
this cake. Rub together the butter and flour ; wet it 
with one quart of milk, lukewarm, and either a half pint 
distillers' yeast or one cake and a half of compressed 
yeast. Beat well, cover the pan with a cloth and set in 
a warm place to rise. At night, when very light, add 
the sugar, spice, and eggs. Set the pan in a moder- 
ately warm place. Early next morning, add the fruit 
and wine, the grated peel of a lemon, half a teaspoon- 
ful extract of rose. Put into pans covered with but- 
tered paper. Let them stand an hour, then put in as 



Cake. 39 

many as the oven will hold, selecting the smallest pans 
to bake first. A half teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in 
a little warm water, will be safe. This receipt makes 
seven loaves, which require to bake an hour or more. 

ELECTION CAKE, No. 4. 

MRS. NATHANIEL TERRY. 

Twelve quarts of flour ; six pounds of sugar ; six 
pounds of butter ; twelve eggs ; one pint wine and 
brandy ; one quart hop yeast ; six pounds raisins ; one 
ounce mace ; three ounces nutmeg. 

This cake is put together as directed in the preced- 
ing receipt, except that half only of the butter is 
mixed with the flour, in making the sponge. The 
remaining butter is added with the sugar, when worked 
over at night. 

The receipt makes twelve loaves. 

ELECTION CAKE, No. 5. 

MRS. HENRY HUDSON. 

Four and a half pounds sugar ; four and a quarter 
pounds butter ; one peck sifted flour ; two quarts of 
milk ; six eggs ; four and a half pounds raisins ; half 
pint wine ; half pint brandy ; nutmeg, and mace. 

The yeast for this cake is preferably home made, for 



40 Receipts. 



which the receipt has already been given. The quan- 
tity is three-fourths of a quart, and the cake is mixed 
as in Receipt No. 3. 

ELECTION CAKE, No. 6. 

MISS C. M. ELY. 

Two quarts flour ; one and a half pounds sugar ; 
one pound butter and lard ; one pint home-made 
yeast ; one pint or more new milk . one egg ; one 
wineglass (sherry) of brandy and wine, mixed ; two 
nutmegs ; one pound raisins. 

Mix at 2 P.M., adding half the butter and sugar, 
worked to a cream, with yeast, milk, a little salt, and 
all the flour. When light, at evening, work in the rest 
of the materials. Beat well. Let it rise over night, 
and, in the morning, work over, put in pans, and let it 
rise an hour. Bake in moderate oven. Frost the 
loaves. 

ELECTION CAKE, No. 7. 

WINDSOR, CONN. 

Six pounds flour ; three and a half pounds sugar ; 
two and a half pounds butter and lard, beaten to a 
cream. 

Take the flour and half the shortening, with one 
'and a half cups of good yeast and milk enough to 



Cake. 41 

make a stiff batter. Let it rise over night, then add 
the rest of the shortening, and let it rise again. When 
light, add nutmeg, mace, half a pirft of St. Croix rum, 
one and a half pounds of raisins, one orange, a 
pound of citron. Add the well-beaten whites of two 
eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Put the 
batter in the pans ; allow it to rise an hour. 

ELECTION CAKE, No. 8. 

MRS. CHARLES H. BRAINARD. 

It is essensial for this cake that the yeast should be 
made expressly for it. 

Boil one potato in a pint of water ; ten minutes be- 
fore it is soft, add a teaspoonful of hops. The water 
should be reduced one-half. Rub the potato through 
a hair sieve, and, when cool, add to the hop water one- 
sixth of a Fleischman yeast cake and four tablespoon - 
fuls of flour, taken from that weighed out for the cake. 
Rub smooth, stir into the liquid, and let the whole rise, 
adding a half teaspoonful of salt. 

THE CAKE The receipt, in full, makes fourteen 
loaves, and is usually divided. 

Eight pounds pastry flour ; four and a half pounds 
sugar ; four and a half pounds butter (part Deerfoot or 
Strawberry Hill lard can be used) ; six pounds raisins ; 



42 Receipts. 

two pounds citron ; two pounds currants or Sultana 
raisins ; one ounce nutmeg ; half ounce mace ; eight 
eggs; one and a half gills of brandy; one and a half 
gills of wine; three pints milk ; the juice of one or two 
oranges and a little grated peel. 

At noon, rub well together the butter and sugar, 
until like pudding sauce. 

Mix well half of this with the flour; add the milk, 
which must be lukewarm ; a teaspoonful of salt ; the 
eggs, and lastly, the yeast. Beat it half an hour. Set 
in warm place. By ten o'clock it will be light. Add 
the remaining butter and sugar, wine, brandy, spices, 
and orange juice. Beat half an hour. Set it in a 
warm place until morning. Stir into it, very lightly, 
the fruit, well dredged with flour, which must be taken 
from that measured for the cake. 

Let it stand in the pans, which must be lined with 
buttered paper, an hour and a half before baking. It 
must not be stirred in the oven, nor the place of the 
pans changed. 

Frost the loaves. The pans must be filled two- 
thirds full. The batter must be very thin ; if too stiff, 
warm with a little warm milk. 



Cake. 43 

ELECTION CAKE, No. 9. 

"CHOICE RECEIPTS." 

Four pounds flour; two pounds sugar; one pound 
lard ; one pound butter ; two pounds raisins ; one 
pound citron ; four eggs ; one quart of new milk ; two 
heaping teaspoonfuls mace ; four nutmegs ; a tumbler. 
ful of wine and brandy ; one pint home-made yeast. 

In the morning, cream the butter and lard, and, 
when very light, add the sugar, mixing well. Take a 
little less than half the butter and rub well into the 
flour, which should be well warmed; add the milk, 
slightly warmed, and the yeast. Mix thoroughly, and 
let it stand where it will keep warm until it becomes 
very light, which should be about nine or ten o'clock 
at night. Do not disturb it while rising. 

Beat the eggs separately and mix with the remainder 
of the shortening, adding the spice and wine, etc. 
Mix well, and let it rise a second time. In the morn- 
ing, when light, fill the pans two-thirds full, putting in 
a little at a time, and dropping the fruit in thickly in 
layers. Bake in a slow oven. 

THE YEAST Boil a small handful of hops in one 
quart of water, strain through a sieve ; pour, boiling 
hot, over the flour, to make a thin batter. When cool, 
add a half pint of distillery yeast; strain again, and let 



44 Receipts. 

it stand until very light and foaming. Make the yeast 
the day before it is to be used. 

ELECTION CAKE, No. 10, PLAIN. 

MISS MARY ANN OLCOTT. 

Three cups of new milk, warm ; one cup sugar ; one 
cup home-made yeast. 

At two o'clock P.M. make a stiff batter, and let it 
rise. Beat well, and add, about bed time, three cups 
of sugar; two cups of butter; half cup sweet lard; 
one egg ; one pound raisins ; half pound citron, sliced 
thin ; three nutmegs ; four teaspoonfuls mace, pow- 
dered ; half wineglass brandy ; half wineglass wine. 

ELECTION CAKE, No. 11. 

MISS GLEASON. 

Ten cups of flour ; four cups milk ; two cups sugar ; 
one cup home-made yeast, or two thirds of a cup of 
distillers' yeast, omitting a little to add in the morn- 
ing. 

Beat the batter well. Let it rise over night. 

Take two cups of sugar; three cups butter; two 

eggs. 

Add the balance of yeast and these ingredients to 
the batter; beat very hard, and, when well mixed, let 



Cake. 45 

it rise again. When very light, add half ounce of nut- 
meg and a quarter ounce of mace ; two pounds raisins ; 
one pound citron ; one teaspoonful of soda ; two tea- 
spoonfuls of cream tartar ; one wineglass of brandy. 

Let the cake rise again, in the pans, before putting 
it in the oven. 

QUICK LOAF CAKE. 

MISS H. W. TERRY. 

One and a half pounds flour ; half pound butter ; 
three-fourths pound sugar ; three eggs ; one glass of 
wine; one cup of milk; half a nutmeg; half a tea- 
spoonful cinnamon ; two teaspoonfuls baking powder ; 
one pound raisins. 

MADELINES. 

ADAPTED BY E. T. J. 

These delicious little cakes can be either made of 
very rich batter, in which case they can be kept much 
longer, or after a simpler receipt. 

Three-quarters pound of butter ; one pound sugar ; 
one pound flour; nine eggs; half wineglass brandy; 
grated peel of one lemon ; half grated nutmeg ; half 
teaspoonful Royal baking powder. 

Stir butter to a cream, add sugar, beat well. Add the 
beaten yolks of eggs alternately, with half the flour, then 



46 Receipts. 



the beaten whites with the balance of flour. The brandy, 
spices, and lemon may be added to sugar and butter, 
when beaten well. Sift the baking powder in the flour 
before adding eggs. Butter two or three dripping pans 
well. Pour in the batter half an inch thick. Fill as 
many pans as the oven will hold. The mixture will 
bake in ten minutes in a moderate oven. 

When it has been out of the oven two minutes, cut 
it in squares with a warm knife. Spread each square 
with either strawberry, raspberry, apricot, or green 
gage jam (the very acid kinds will not do), or chopped 
crystalized fruits, or chopped blanched nuts. On this 
drop from a spoon a thick layer of soft frosting, 
taking care that it does not run down the sides. Make 
the frosting as follows : 

To the white of one egg, take a heaping cup of 
powdered sugar, stir it in without first beating the egg, 
add three drops of rose water, five of vanilla, and the 
juice of a quarter of a lemon. 

MADELINES, No. 2. 

ADAPTED BY E. T. J. 

One cup butter ; two cups sugar ; two-thirds cup 
milk; six eggs; two small teaspoonfuls baking powder; 
two and a half cups flour. Flavor with half a glass 



Cake. 47 

brandy, half a nutmeg, and the grated rind of a 
lemon. 

Bake as directed in preceding receipt, and use the 
jam and frosting in the same way. These are very 
delicate and light, but will not keep as long as made- 
lines made of richer cake. 

"FIVE O'CLOCKS." 

E. T. J. 

One cup of butter ; two cups of sugar ; three cups 
of sifted flour; four eggs, beaten separately; half cup 
milk or sour cream if cream is used, add a quarter 
teaspoonful of soda ; half a nutmeg ; ten drops rose 
water; grated peel of one lemon; one dessertspoonful 
vanilla; one glass sherry or half glass brandy ; half a 
pound of citron, cut fine. 

Stir butter and sugar together, add the wine, flavor- 
ing, and lemon peel. Stir in the milk, alternately, 
with half the flour. Add two level teaspoofuls baking 
powder in a little of the flour. Stir in the beaten 
eggs, alternately, with the remaining flour, reserving a 
very little to dredge the citron. 

Lastly, add the fruit. Half a pound of raisins may 
be used, if desired. Bake in small block-tin patty- 
pans. This receipt makes sixty cakes. Frost with the 
Asquam frosting. Two eggs will frost all. 



48 Receipts. 

ASQUAM FROSTING. 

E. T. J. 

To the white of one egg, take one and a quarter 
cups of pulverized sugar. Stir in the sugar without 
beating the egg. Add three drops rose water, ten of 
vanilla, and the juice of half a lemon. It will at 
once become very white, and will harden in a very few 
moments, which is its chief claim to distinction. 

BLACK CAKE. 

MRS. G. V. N. LOTHROP. 

Two pounds butter ; two pounds sugar ; two pounds 
flour ; five pounds raisins ; five pounds currants ; two 
pounds citron ; twenty eggs ; one tumblerful brandy ; 
one tumblerful wine ; one tablespoonful cloves ; two 
tablespoonfuls cinnamon ; two tablespoonfuls mace. 

BLACK CAKE, No. 2. 

MRS. DAVENPORT. 

Thirteen pounds raisins; three pounds preserved 
lemon peel; three pounds citron; five pounds cur- 
rants; four pounds butter; six pounds sugar; four 
pounds flour; thirty-six eggs; two ounces mace, 
ground ; half ounce nutmeg ; half box cinnamon, 
ground ; half box cloves ; one pint molasses ; two and 
a half pints whiskey and wine. 



Cake. 49 

This is absolutely perfect cake, and has been tried 
many times. The receipt given makes about fifty 
pounds. One- quarter of the receipt is enough for 
ordinary occasions. Do not attempt to bake it in the 
house, but send to a baker. 

ANGEL CAKE. 

HOTEL CAPITOL, HARTFORD. 

Whites of eight eggs, well beaten ; one cup pulver- 
ized sugar ; half cup flour ; half cup corn starch ; one 
teaspoonful baking powder, sifted with flour, sugar, 
and starch; add eggs. Flavor with lemon. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

MRS. WM. THOMPSON. 

One pound flour; one pound sugar; one pound 
butter; one pound eggs; two pounds raisins; two 
pounds currants; half pound citron; mace, nutmeg, 
cinnamon, and cloves, one-half ounce each; one glass 
of brandy; half teaspoonful soda. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

MRS. FORD. 

Twelve eggs ; the weight of ten eggs in powdered 
sugar, and the weight of five large eggs in flour ; the 
grated peel of a large lemon and half the juice. 



50 Receipts. 



Stir together the yolks of eggs, and sugar till very light. 
A wooden spoon or a Dover egg beater will do best 
to beat with. When light, add the lemon peel and 
juice. 

Beat the whites very light, and stir in gently, but 
thoroughly, with a silver fork. 

Sift the flour in, in three instalments, stirring it in 
as lightly as consistent with thorough mixing. Prac- 
tice will give the best peculiar movement of the fork 
or spoon which scatters the flour, while mixing it in. 
If the eggs are large, this quantity will make a large 
milk pan loaf and two oblong bread pan loaves. If 
the eggs are small, the quantity will fill the milk pan, 
and is much the best way to bake it. Line the pan 
with stiff white paper, making the sides straight. Bake 
an hour, in a moderate oven, watching carefully, to 
avoid burning. 

This cake is the handsomest of all sponge rakes. 

SPONGE CAKE, No. 2. 

MISS WOOLSEY. 

Twelve eggs ; the weight of twelve in sugar, and of 
six in flour ; the grated peel and juice of one lemon. 
Proceed as in the first receipt. The preponderance of 
sugar makes the cake less handsome than the first 
receipt, but moister, and with a sugary crust on top. 



Cake. 51 

If sponge cake is frosted, the icing should be flavored 
with lemon juice. 

SPONGE CAKE, No. 3. 

MRS. ROSE TERRY COOKE. 

Nine eggs, ten if small ; one pound pulverized 
sugar; half pound flour (pastry); the juice and peel, 
grated, of a lemon. Add the sugar to the whites, 
sifting it in, and beating it in with a fork. 

Add the yolks next, then the flour, lastly, the lemon 
juice and peel. 

Line the pans with buttered paper. Bake in a 
moderate oven. When the cake is in the oven, sit 
down by the oven door, and watch till it is done. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

MISS FARRAN. 

One cup "of butter; two cups of sugar; two-thirds 
cup of milk ; whites of six eggs ; yolks of four eggs ; 
two and a half cups of flour; two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder. Flavor with a tablespoonful of vanilla. 

Bake in four layers. 

FILLING. Three eggs, with the yolks of the two 
remaining from the cake, well beaten ; one cup of 
sugar; the juice of two lemons. Cook in vessel set in 



52 Receipts. 



hot water, on the stove, until it thickens. Stir con- 
stantly. 

When cold, stir into it a third part of two grated 
cocoanuts. Spread upon three of the cakes. 

FROSTING. Make a thick, stiff, soft frosting, using 
a heaping cup of sugar to the white of one egg, and 
only a half teaspoonful of lemon juice, to whiten it. 
Flavor with half a teaspoonful of vanilla extract ; mix 
with it a third part of two grated cocoanuts that is, 
half of what is left. Spread over the top and sides of 
the loaf, and, while soft, shower over it the remainder 
of the cocoanut, insuring its adhering to the cake. 

This is the most delicious of all cocoanut cakes. It 
is a dessert dish properly, to be eaten with a fork. 

POUND CAKE. 

MRS. FARNSWORTH. 

One pound two ounces of butter; one pound sugar; 
fourteen ounces flour; ten eggs, beaten separately; 
half teaspoonful mace ; one wineglass brandy. 

POUND CAKE, No. 2. 

MRS. H. W. CLOSSON. 

One pound sugar ; three-fourths pound butter ; one 
pound flour ; ten eggs, beaten separately ; one pound 
raisins, or half pound citron ; three-fourths wineglass 



Cake. 53 

brandy ; ten drops extract of rose ; half a nutmeg ; 
grated peel of one lemon. Stir, till very light, the 
butter and sugar together. Mix the yolks, whites, 
and flour, alternately. Lastly, add the flavoring and 
the raisins, dredged with a little of the flour. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

ADAPTED BY E. T. J. 

One pound sugar ; half pound butter ; one pound 
flour ; six eggs, beaten separately ; two scant teaspoon- 
fuls Royal baking powder, sifted into a little of the 
flour; one dessertspoonful of vanilla; half teaspoon- 
ful extract of lemon, or a very few drops of extract of 
bitter almond, a few drops of rose, and half a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla; two-thirds cup of milk. 

The quantity of flour in this and all cakes, save 
sponge cake, may require to be slightly varied, owing 
to the size of the eggs or the quantity of flavoring. 
The batter should be thin as prudent for baking in 
jelly cake pans, and may be tested by a small cake. 
The batter will make two loaves of three cakes each, 
and may be divided before flavoring. The White 
Mountain Cake being flavored as directed above, and, 
when baked, spread with a frosting made in the pro- 
portion of one heaping cup of powdered sugar to the 
white of an egg, and a quarter only of the juice of a 



54 Receipts. 

lemon, the flavoring to correspond with that of the 
cake. Spread it as thickly as possible over the cake, 
and lay the cakes one upon another, frosting the top 
with slightly stiffer icing. 

The other half of the batter may be varied by adding 
a glass of sherry, a little nutmeg, and ten drops of rose 
extract, instead of the flavoring used before. This loaf 
can have jelly between the layers, the top being iced 
with the frosting used for the first loaf. 

If desired, a quarter of a pound of citron, or a half 
pound of raisins, can be added to the batter just de- 
scribed, and baked in small patty pans. 

The loaves can be filled with many other mixtures 
with grated orange, made very stiff with sugar, in 
which case the flavoring of the cake should be a little 
orange or lemon juice, mixed, with a tiny quantity of 
the grated peel; or with cocoanut or chocolate. 

TUMBLER CAKE. 

MRS. BRINCKE. 

One large tumbler of butter ; one large tumbler 
sugar ; one small tumbler milk ; one small tumbler 
molasses ; five tumblers flour ; four eggs ; one and a 
half teaspoonfuls soda ; one pound raisins ; one 
pound currants ; half pound citron ; one teaspoonful 
each of mace, clove, nutmeg, and cinnamon. 



Cake. 55 

FRUIT CAKE. 

MRS. THOS. BELKNAP. 

Three-fourths pound butter ; one pound darkest 
brown sugar ; one pound two ounces browned flour ; 
half pint molasses \ half pint milk ; one wineglass 
sherry ; four eggs, beaten well ; one teaspoonful soda ; 
one tablespoonful cloves ; one tablespoonful allspice ; 
two nutmegs. 

This receipt will make two loaves of cake, and will 
keep for weeks. 

CINNAMON WAFERS. 

MISS FARRAN. 

One pound white sugar ; quarter pound butter ; 
three eggs ; three tablespoonfuls ground cinnamon ; 
one dessertspoonful vanilla extract ; one teaspoonful 
baking powder. Flour only sufficient to roll out thin. 
Cut into small cakes, with top of a wineglass. When 
baked, drop a spot of frosting in the middle of each 
cake. Use to make it whites of two eggs ; two cups 
powdered sugar ; ten drops vanilla ; a dessertspoonful 
of lemon juice. The wafers will keep four or five days, 
but not longer. On losing their freshness, they become 
powdery and tasteless. 

Be careful to obtain the cinnamon from the drug- 
gist. If stale, the wafers are ruined. 



56 Receipts. 



SAND CAKES. 

PLATTSBURG COOK BOOK. 

One pound sugar ; half pound butter ; yolks of 
two eggs and white of one ; one pound flour. Mix 
the butter and sugar thoroughly, add eggs, well beaten, 
and flour, alternately. Roll out the cakes thin. Wet 
the tops with the white of egg, beaten stiff. Sprinkle 
over them powdered sugar, ground cinnamon, and a 
few bits blanched almond. 



SUGAR CAKES. 

JAMAICA, L. I. 

Two cups powdered sugar; one cup of butter; four 
eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately; half a nut- 
meg, and a little mace; flour enough to roll out soft. 
Cut in small cakes. Sprinkle granulated sugar on the 
top. 

JACKSON JUMBLES. 

MRS. NATHANIEL TERRY. 

Three cups sugar ; one cup butter ; three and a 
half cups unsifted flour, or five cups sifted flour ; one 
cup sour cream ; nutmeg ; a little rose water (if ex- 
tract of rose, ten drops), or vanilla ; two eggs. 



Cake. 57 

WATER COOKIES. 

MRS. NATHANIEL TERRY. 

Three pounds flour ; one and a half pounds sugar ; 
three-fourths pound butter ; two teaspoonfuls soda, 
dissolved in a little hot water. Rub the butter into 
the flour, as if for pastry. Dissolve the sugar in a 
half pint of boiling water. When cold, wet with this 
syrup the flour and butter, mixing as if making pastry. 

Roll very thin. They will keep some time. 

The flavoring can be vanilla, nutmeg, or cinnamon. 
The receipt makes a large quantity. If properly 
made, they are crisp and light as pastry, not hard. 

MOLASSES GINGERBREAD. 

(WITHOUT EGGS.) MISS WOODBRIDGE. 
One pint molasses ; one cup melted butter ; one 
tablespoonful ginger ; one teaspoonful cinnamon ; a 
little nutmeg and clove ; one cup cold water. Stir 
into the molasses a teaspoonful of soda. Beat hard 
until it foams high. Add the other ingredients, with 
enough flour to make it stiff. Lastly, add the cupful 

of water. 

GINGERBREAD. 

MRS. G. V. N. LOTHROP. 

Two cups of molasses ; half cup of butter ; half 
cup of brown sugar ; one cup of sour milk ; a little 



58 Receipts. 

more than three cups of flour ; three-fourths teaspoon- 
ful of soda, dissolved in a little water and stirred into 
the molasses, and three-fourths teaspoonful of soda, 
dissolved in the milk ; two teaspoonfuls ginger. 

GINGERBREAD, No. 2. 

MEADOW BANK. 

Two cups West India molasses ; one cup brown 
sugar ; one cup sour milk ; half cup butter ; one tea- 
spoonful soda ; one teaspoonful ginger ; a little salt. 

Add soda to the milk, which add after the other 
ingredients have been well stirred together. Use only 
enough flour to permit the batter to be dropped in 
cakes. 

HARD SUGAR GINGERBREAD. 

MRS. NATHANIEL TERRY. 

One and a half cups white sugar ; two eggs ; a 
piece of butter as large as an egg ; one tablespoonful 
ground ginger ; one teaspoonful lemon juice ; one tea- 
spoonful soda, dissolved in two tablespoonfuls of milk; 
flour enough to make a batter which can be rolled 
out. Roll very thin. Mark in strips, with jagging 
iron. Sprinkle white sugar on them. Bake a pale 
brown, in quick oven. 

The flour is added after all other ingredients. 



Cake. 59 

GINGER SNAPS. 

MRS. NATHANIEL TERRY. 

One quart molasses ; one pound butter ; half pound 
sugar ; one ounce cloves ; one cup ginger ; one tea- 
spoonful soda ; as little flour as can be used to roll 
out the cakes. 

They are very crisp and delicate. 

GINGER SNAPS, No. 2. 

LYDIA TALBOT. 

One and a half cups molasses, West India ; one tea- 
spoonful soda. Boil the molasses, stir in the soda, 
pour it, when boiling hot, over three tablespoonfuls of 
lard or butter. Add a little salt. 

Two tablespoonfuls ginger ; half teaspoonful clove ; 
one teaspoonful cinnamon ; flour to roll out thin. 



PUDDINGS. 



APPLE PUDDING. 

MISS CORSON. 

T3UTTER thickly an earthenware pudding mould 
*-* or bowl with cold butter. Press a layer of bread 
crumbs, an inch thick, all through the mould, as a 
lining. Fill the middle with good cooking apples, 
stewed, mixed with enough sugar to make it moder- 
ately sweet ; a little nutmeg or grated lemon peel ; a 
tablespoonful of butter, which will melt of itself, when 
the apple is hot. Add one egg, well beaten. Scatter 
bread crumbs over the top, and small bits of butter. 
Bake fifteen minutes, and turn out on a platter. 
Eat with Asquam sauce. 

BREAD BATTER PUDDING. 

MRS. THOS. WAYNE. 

Heat a quart of milk, and pour upon two teacups 
of fine bread crumbs. Beat well, and, when pretty 
smooth, add half teaspoonful of salt, and, when a little 
cool, five eggs, beaten separately. Bake, in a buttered 
dish, until it is set, but not till it separates. Eat with 
hot liquid sauce. 



Puddings. 61 



SOUFFLE PUDDING. 

MRS. HARRISON. 

One tumbler of milk ; two heaping tablespoonfuls 
of flour ; quarter pound of butter ; two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar ; four eggs. Mix butter, sugar, and flour 
together. Add the milk, and' put in a saucepan over 
the fire, stirring until it thickens. 

Remove from fire, and stir the yolks of the eggs, 
unbeaten. Beat very hard. Let the mixture cool. 
Add the whites of the eggs, beaten very light, just 
before putting into the oven. 

Bake twenty minutes, and serve with hot wine 
sauce. 

ORANGE OR LEMON PUDDING. 

MRS. A. R. TERRY. 

Wet two tablespoonfuls corn starch with a little 
cold water ; when smooth, pour over it a pint and a 
half of boiling water, as if making starch. When clear 
and thick, add the yolks of two well- beaten eggs, and 
the juice of five oranges and one lemon, or four 
lemons and two oranges, with six heaping tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar. Pour into a dish or mould; when quite 
stiff, pour over the top a meringue made of the 
whites of the eggs, beaten with six tablespoonfuls 
sugar and the juice of half a lemon. Do not allow it 



62 Receipts. 



to brown, but put in the oven, with doors open, until 
it sets. 

INDIAN PUDDING. 

(WITHOUT EGGS.) MISS WOODBRIDGE. 

Seven lablespoonfuls Indian meal, stirred into a 
quart of scalding milk ; one cup molasses ; butter the 
size of an egg ; one teaspoonful powdered cinnamon ; 
half teaspoonful ginger ; one cup cold water, added as 
the pudding goes into the oven. 

Bake three-fourths of an hour. 

INDIAN PUDDING, No. 2. 

MRS. JUDGE PARKER. 

One quart milk, well boiled ; half pint corn meal, 
sprinkled in the milk when hot (have the meal well 
sifted) ; half pint molasses ; one teaspoonful salt ; 
butter the size of an egg. Mix all thoroughly. Pour 
over all a pint of cold milk. Stir thoroughly. Put in 
a buttered baking dish, and bake two hours. 

INDIAN PUDDING, No. 3. 

MRS. ROSE TERRY COOKE. 

Three quarts and one pint sweet milk ; three table- 
spoonfuls (heaped) of ordinary corn meal, not granula- 
ted ; one teacup molasses; one teaspoon salt; half cup 
butter; ginger to taste. Boil one quart milk, add to it 



Puddings. 63- 



molasses, butter, salt, and spice, and meal stiired 
smooth with a little cold milk; scald well and then 
turn into a well-buttered baking dish. When it begins 
to crust over, stir it all up from the bottom, and add 
one pint cold milk. Repeat this process every half 
hour, or oftener if the pudding browns too fast, till the 
five pints are used, then let it bake till done, six hours 
at least. Use, when hot, with a sauce of grated or 
granulated maple sugar, stirred into rich cream, and 
keep very cold till needed. 

This pudding can be reheated indefinitely. 



DELMONICO PUDDING. 

One quart milk ; four even tablespoonfuls corn 
starch, mixed smooth, with a little cold milk, taken 
from the quart ; the yolks of four eggs, beaten with 
five tablespoonfuls sugar. When the milk boils, add 
the corn starch, and stir until quite thick. Take from 
the fire and add the beaten eggs and sugar. Flavor 
with one dessertspoonful of vanilla extract. Pour into 
a pudding dish. Beat the whites of the eggs very 
light, add three tablespoonfuls sugar, a few drops of 
vanilla. Spread it over the pudding. Set it in the 
oven for a few minutes, to set, but not to brown 
Leave the oven door open. 



64 Receipts. 



ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

MRS. PECHEN. 

One pound suet ; half pound flour ; two pounds 
currants ; two pounds raisins ; one pound citron ; 
half pound sugar ; one wineglass of brandy ; one 
wineglass of wine ; twelve eggs ; one teaspoonful of 
powdered mace and cloves ; one nutmeg ; half tea- 
spoonful of salt ; quarter pound of orange peel ; two 
tablespoonfuls ginger syrup or brandy peach syrup. 

Boil the puddings in small pudding cloths, holding 
about a quart each, five hours, not letting it stop 
boiling one moment. 

These will last an indefinite length of time. Hang 
in a cool, dry place. When used, plunge in boiling 
water, and boil one hour. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

MRS. MCHARG. 

One cup suet, chopped fine ; one cup molasses ; 
one cup chopped apple ; one cup milk ; one small tea- 
spoonful of salt ; one teaspoonful each of cinnamon, 
allspice, mace, cloves, nutmeg; two cups chopped 
raisins, more if you like ; one cup dried currants ; 
half pound citron. 

If liked, add quarter pound of candied orange peel, 



Puddings. 65 



and half a pound of almonds, blanched and slit, with 
a penknife, in four parts. 

Two well-beaten eggs (if eggs are plentiful, use 
four) ; two cups of flour. 

Boil three hours, and serve with hot liquid sauce. 

PLUM PUDDING, No. 2. 

MISS CHARLOTTE ELY. 

One pound fruit cake ; one teacup suet ; one heap- 
ing cup of flour ; three-fourths glass of wine ; one tea- 
spoonful powdered cinnamon ; four eggs, beaten sep- 
arately ; half teacup milk ; one nutmeg. 

Boil four hours. 

RICE PUDDING. 

MRS. A. M. DIAZ. 

One-third cup rice. Let it swell in a quart of milk, 
in a farina kettle, on the back of the stove, until quite 
thick. Then add another pint of milk, three table- 
spoonfuls sugar. 

Put in a pudding dish, cover it closely. While 
baking, stir the pudding now and then. When nearly 
done, remove the cover. Bake only until set, taking 
care not to allow it to separate. 



66 Receipts. 



GRAHAM PUDDING. 

MRS. JUDGE PARKER. 

One cup of molasses ; one cup of tepid water ; two 
cups of graham flour ; one cup of chopped raisins ; 
one teaspoonful soda. Steam three hours. 

Eat with golden sauce. 

GRAHAM PUDDING, No. 2. 

MISS PARLOA. 

One and a half cups graham flour ; one cup milk ; 
half cup molasses ; one cup chopped raisins ; one 
teaspoonful soda ; half teaspoonful salt. 

Dissolve soda in a spoonful of the milk. Add the 
rest of milk to the molasses, pour over flour, and, 
lastly, add raisins. Boil, in mould, four hours. 

SAGO AND APPLE PUDDING. 

ELIZABETH COPPET. 

Soak six tablespoonfuls of sago or tapioca in a pint 
of warm water. Pare six sour apples, and core them. 
Butter a dish, place the apples in it, and fill the cores 
with sugar and a little grated nutmeg. Melt a small 
cup of sugar in the sago and water, pour two-thirds of 
the mixture over the apples, and put in the oven. 
When it has slowly baked an hour, pour in the rest of 



Puddings. 67 



the sago, stirring occasionally, and pressing the apples 
down. 

SAGO AND APPLE PUDDING, No. 2. 

ANNIE CONOLLEY. 

Soak six tablespoonfuls of sago or tapioca in a 
quart of warm water, on the back of the stove. Pare, 
core, and cut in eighths six greening or Baldwin ap- 
ples. Butter a pudding dish, put in the apples. 
Slightly sweeten the sago and water, and grate in a 
third of a nutmeg. Pour over the apples. Put it in 
the oven, with a plate over the top ; remove it ten 
minutes before it is done. Stir it, gently, from time 
to time. 

Eat warm, not hot, with sweetened cream, or, what 
is best of all, half a pint of cream, whipped with egg- 
beater, with a tablespoonful of powdered sugar. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

MRS. B. F. D. ADAMS. 

One cup of chocolate, dissolved in a little hot milk. 
Add to it a pint of milk, boiling hot ; the yolks of two 
eggs, beaten with a cup of sugar ; a tablespoonful of 
corn starch, dissolved in a very little cold milk, and 
the melted chocolate. Let it thicken, in a double 
boiler, on the stove. Pour into a pudding dish, and, 



68 Receipts. 

when cool, spread over the top a meringue, made of 
the whites of three eggs and three tablespoonfuls sugar. 
Put it in the oven, with open doors, to set. 

SPONGE CAKE PUDDING. 

FROM BOSTON. 

A quarter cup of sugar ; a half cup of flour ; a 
quarter cup of butter ; five eggs ; one pint of milk, 
boiled. 

Mix flour and sugar. Wet with a little cold milk. 
Stir into the boiling milk. Cook until smooth. Add 
the butter, the well-beaten yolks of the eggs, then the 
beaten whites. Pour into a buttered dish. Set into a 
pan of boiling water, and bake, in a moderate oven, 
forty minutes. Eat hot, with a liquid sauce. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

E. T. J. 

A quarter tumbler of butter ; a half tumbler of 
sugar ; a half tumbler of milk ; a half tumbler of 
molasses ; two and a half tumblers of flour ; two 
eggs ; one large tumbler of fruit ; three-fourths tea- 
spoonful of soda ; one teaspoonful each of clove, 
cinnamon, and mace or nutmeg. 

Steam three hours. Eat with liquid sauce. 



Puddings. 69 



TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

MRS. NATHANIEL TERRY. 

Soak four ounces of tapioca (the large tapioca is 
best), in a quart of milk, for several hours, until quite 
soft. Let it boil a few minutes ; if quite thick, add a 
little milk. When cold, add four eggs, beaten separ- 
ately; four ounces of sugar; a glass of wine; the peel 
of a lemon, grated, and, lastly, a pint of cream. This 
will make two puddings. 

Orange flower water may be substituted for the 
lemon and wine. 

The following receipt is an improvement on the one 
above given, being more delicate. Both rules require 
very careful baking, since the cream-like consistence 
is to be secured. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING, No. 2. 

ADAPTED BY E. T. J. 

Soak four tablespoonfuls tapioca, in a quart of milk, 
one hour ; then add one pint of milk, and cook slowly 
in double boiler, until the tapioca is thoroughly done 
and soft. Pour into a large dish, add another pint of 
cold milk, a pint of cream, a half teaspoonful salt, 
five well-beaten eggs, the grated rind of a lemon, a 
dessertspoonful of vanilla extract, eight drops of rose 



70 Receipts. 



water, a wineglass of wine, stirred into ten large table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. 

This will make three puddings. Butter the 
dishes, set them in a dripping pan, pour hot water 
around them, and replenish as it boils away. Be very 
careful not to cook too long. The pudding is like 
thick cream, when properly baked. 

PRUNE PUDDING. 

MRS. WATSON WEBB. 

Stew, gently, a pound of French prunes in a pint of 
water. When nearly soft, add a teacup and a half of 
sugar. When quite done, remove the stones, and cut 
each prune into four pieces. Have a scant quarter 
box of Nelson's gelatine, dissolved in a gill of boiling 
water, on the stove. Strain it into the prunes. Add two 
tablespoonfuls of brandy, pour into a mould, and set 
on ice. Serve with whipped cream. A border mould 
may be used, with a hollow in the center, in which 
the whipped cream can be piled up. A little lemon 
juice and grated peel improves it. Canned peaches 
and apricots are very nice prepared with gelatine in 
a similar way, adding a little lemon juice and either 
cutting the fruit in bits, or straining it after slowly 
stewing with more sugar. 



Puddings. 71 



GOLDEN SAUCE. 

MRS. JUDGE PARKER. 

One cup of butter and one cup of sugar, well beaten 
together ; a little nutmeg, or the grated peel and juice 
of a lemon. Add four tablespoonfuls hot water, then 
the beaten yolk and afterwards the beaten white of 
one egg. Beat well. 

Put the sauce into the boat and set it in a saucepan 
of hot water. Stir gently from time to time. 

This receipt does not differ essentially from Miss 
Parloa's golden sauce, except that only a third of a 
cup of butter is used, and two tablespoonfuls of wine 
are substituted for the lemon and water. 

It is especially used for graham pudding. 

SAUCE FOR APPLE PUDDING. 

PLATTSBURG COOK BOOK. 

Beat one egg very light. Stir into it a cup of white 
sugar. Then add four tablespoonfuls boiling milk, 
and add, lastly, the grated rind of a lemon. This is 
smooth and foamy, and serves well hot for apple 
puddings or meringues, or for any pudding or blanc 
mange usually eaten with cream. 

The flavoring can be varied, but lemon peel is best 
to eat with apple pudding. 



72 Receipts. 



LIQUID PUDDING SAUCE. 

SARAH LAUGHLIN. 

Beat together half a cup of butter and a cup of 
sugar. Add a little nutmeg. Heat, very hot, a wine- 
glass of wine or a half glass of brandy. Beat it into 
the sauce, which will foam throughout. 

LIQUID PUDDING SAUCE, No. 2. 

MAGGIE M. 

One cup butter ; two cups sugar, powdered. Stir 
to a cream, then drop in a piece of ice, and beat hard. 
Add half a cup of brandy, which has been chilled on 
ice, a teaspoonful at a time. If not sufficiently thin, 
add a little iced milk. Transfer to sauce boat, set in 
a saucepan of cold water. Set on the fire. Let it 
boil twenty minutes. Serve in sauce boat. Add a 
little grated nutmeg to the butter and sugar. 

LIQUID PUDDING SAUCE, No. 3. 

MARION HARLAND. 

One and a quarter cups powdered sugar ; one 
quarter cup of butter ; one quarter cup boiling water. 
Measure the water, and keep on the stove or spirit 
lamp. Stir the butter and sugar together ; wet from 
time to time with half a teaspoonful of the hot water, 



Puddings. 73 



beating hard. If more water is used, the butter is 
melted and the sauce is ruined. When all the water 
is added, the mixture should be a foamy mass. 

Add half a wineglass of brandy, a little at a time, 
and a quarter of a grated nutmeg. Pour the mixture 
into a sauce boat, set it into a saucepan of boiling 
water, and stir occasionally. When hot, remove to 
back of stove, still in the water, until it is needed. 



M 



PIES. 

BEST PASTRY. 

MRS. NATHANIEL TERRY. 

EASURE one quart sifted pastry flour. Place a 
handful of it upon the moulding board. Have a 
coffeecupful of butter and one of best lard, made very 
cold, either by keeping for half an hour upon ice, or 
by packing it in a pan of snow. Roll out the butter 
in the flour, upon the moulding board, into thin 
sheets, place it on tin pans, and set them upon the ice 
or snow until wanted for use. 

Scrape into the flour in the dish the butter that may 
have crumbled on the board, with the remaining flour. 
Add a small teaspoonful of salt. Cut up the lard, in 
the flour, with a knife, or rub it with the tips of your 
ringers, quickly and lightly, until it is all a granulated 
mass. Wet it with three-fourths of a coffeecup of ice 
water, stirring it with a knife. Take a little sifted 
flour, not a portion of the original quart, sift a little 
on the board, turn out the dough upon it, flour the 
rolling pin, roll the pastry lightly to a square mass, an 
inch thick and a foot square. Place a layer of the 



Pies. 75 

rolled butter on the dough, not extending within two 
inches of the edge on any side. Fold over the side 
edges, then the top edges, not meeting on any side. 
Double the dough, turn it, and roll again, as before, 
until the supply of butter is exhausted. The measure 
given will make three layers. When doubled together 
for the last time, cut off a piece from the roll, suffi- 
cient for the bottom crust of the first pie. Roll it a 
quarter of an inch thick, cover with it a pie plate 
which has been well buttered, trimming off the edges 
with a sharp, well-floured knife. Fill the plate with 
fruit or mince meat, or whatever filling you have pre- 
pared. Roll out the top crust slightly thicker than 
the bottom. When trimmed off, cut a slit in center of 
crust. Cut the edge of the paste with the knife at 
every inch; this will secure the edges of the crust, but 
not injure its consistency. Bake in a hot oven, and 
watch carefully. It is better only lightly brown, but 
thoroughly risen and well cooked. 

For berry or small fruit pies, use a soup plate, or any 
deep plate with a rim. 

Pie plates, as well as cake tins, should be buttered 
with cold butter, melted butter running off. 

Although the cook books recommend chilling the 
pastry over some three different periods, of twenty 
minutes each, it is found, by having the shortening 



76 Receipts. 



very hard to begin with, using ice water to wet it, and 
manipulating the dough as quickly and lightly as 
possible, that the handsomest puff paste can be made. 
Dexterity is the main thing which can be relied on, 
and which practice will certainly teach. In summer, 
it is, of course, better, if the butter seems soft, to 
place the dough for as long a time as possible on the 
ice. I have never found it necessary to wet the strip 
of paste around the edge of the pie. 

All butter can be used, if preferred, but the pastry 
will not be so handsome. Do not use more than a 
saltspoonful of salt, if no lard is used. 

This receipt, if closely followed, will make the hand- 
somest puff paste. 

APPLE PIE. 

Slice five sour apples very thin. Line a pie plate 
with crust, made after the puff paste receipt, but using 
a little less shortening, and rolling it out in flour, not 
included in the quart mentioned. Roll the under 
crust thin. 

Fill the plate with the apples. Cover it with paste, 
rolled somewhat thicker. Cut two slits in the middle. 
When baked, remove with care the top crust, lay on a 
plate. Stir the apple lightly. Stir in a heaping 
teaspoonful of butter, half a grated nutmeg, and 



Pies. 77 

enough sugar to make it palatable. Replace the top 
crust. This method is so superior to the mode of 
preparing the apple before cooking that it is worth 
the trial. 

MINCE PIE. 

ADAPTED BY E. T. J. 

Two pounds boiled tongue, not smoked (Richard- 
son & Robbins' jellied tongues are the best), chopped 
fine ; one pound suet, with strings removed, and also 
chopped fine; three pounds brown sugar; four 
pounds tart apples, chopped fine ; one pound currant 
jelly, or cherry jam, damson or any sub-acid sweet- 
meat will do; two pounds of raisins, chopped coarsely; 
one pound Sultana raisins, stemmed and whole ; half 
pound candied orange and lemon peel, shredded fine ; 
one and a quarter pounds of citron, cut fine ; grated 
peel and juice of two lemons ; two nutmegs ; one tea- 
spoonful powdered clove ; one teaspoonful powdered 
cinnamon ; one teaspoonful salt ; one teaspoonful 
extract of rose ; one pint sherry ; half pint of brandy ; 
half pint cider. 

If desired, when made into pies, some whole raisins 
and larger bits of citron can be scattered over the 
mince meat. 



78 Receipts. 



If too thin, add either syrup of sweetmeats or a little 
more sherry or cider. 

Do not cook it at all before making into pies. 
Keep in a stone jar, in a cool, dry place, with a piece 
of white paper laid over it, and a cloth tied over the 
mouth of jar. 

MINCE MEAT, No. 2. 

MRS. H. W. CLOSSON. 

One large boiled tongue, carefully trimmed and 
chopped fine, or a two-pound whole tongue of Rich- 
ardson & Robbins'; four pounds of chopped apples ; 
one pint of cider ; one quart of brandy ; three pounds 
brown sugar ; three pounds chopped raisins ; one 
pound citron, cut fine ; nutmeg, cinnamon, and mace 
to taste ; the rind and juice of a lemon ; one table- 
spoonful of vanilla extract. 

MINCE MEAT, No. 3. 

MRS. A. R. TERRY. 

Two pounds raisins ; one pound currants ; one 
pound suet ; two pounds chopped apples ; two and a 
half pounds sugar ; three lemons, juice and grated 
peel ; two ounces cinnamon ; two nutmegs ; a little 
clove ; one pint of neutral spirit. Wet with sherry. 



Pies. 79 

RISSOLES A LA CREME. 

MRS. HENDERSON. 

Prepare the paste and proceed as directed in the 
previously given receipt. 

Prepare the filling as follows : Boil a pint of milk 
in a double boiler. When boiling, add a tablespoon- 
ful of flour and two tablespoonfuls corn starch, wet and 
rubbed smooth, in a little cold milk. Stir the milk 
until it thickens, take from the stove, add three well- 
beaten eggs, six tablespoonfuls sugar. Return to fire 
for a moment. Flavor with a dessertspoonful of 
vanilla, six drops rose water, and the grated peel of a 
lemon. Pour upon a platter to harden. Cut a square 
for the rissoles, or, if soft, a teaspoonful for each one. 

The rissoles are very nice with any thick jam for 
the filling. The shape of the rissoles is like a crescent. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

MRS. THOS. WAYNE. 

Make some ordinary pie crust, using the rule given 
for puff paste, deducting a quarter of that amount of 
butter. 

Roll out thin, cut in square pieces, and enclose an 
apple, pared and cored, in each, wrapping the crust 
about it and pinching it tightly, to close it. 



80 Receipts. 



Place in a pudding dish, buttered, to bake. When 
the crust is a delicate brown, baste the dumplings with 
a bowlful of sauce, made by stirring together a table- 
spoonful of butter, a teacup of white sugar, and a pint 
of hot water. Baste from time to time, letting the 
apples remain five minutes in the oven after the last 
basting. If possible, serve in the same dish. The 
dumplings will be glazed, and a little thick syrup be 
in the dish. It needs no other sauce. 



CREAMS AND JELLIES. 



GENERAL REMARKS. 

IVTELSON'S gelatine is preferable to any other, 
* * one-quarter box being equal to one-third box 
of Cox's. 

All preparations with gelatine, having white of egg, 
beaten stiff, or whipped cream, added, should be 
placed on ice, or in a double vessel, having snow or 
cracked ice in the lower part, and carefully watched. 
When the congealing has begun, add, instantly, the 
cream or eggs, as it becomes stiff at once, and then 
no stirring will amalgamate the materials. Stir the 
cream very lightly in with a fork, and at once pour 
into moulds. The long process formerly necessary in 
making snow pudding is thus avoided, and the result 
quite as successful. 

WHIPPED CREAM. 

Cream whipped with the Dover egg beater is far 
better than that made by means of the old syllabub 
pump. It requires only five minutes' brisk turning, 
for the whole mass to become stiff, more compact than 



82 Receipts. 



the stiffest beaten white of egg. It will remain so for 
several days. 

For use as sauce, or to eat with sweetmeats, add 
only a tablespoonful of sugar, powdered, to the cream. 

A half pint of cream, whipped, makes the best 
possible sauce for any cold pudding. 

Cream for whipping should be twenty-four hours' 
old, and uniformly thick, as lumpy cream will turn to 
butter. It is needful to use a little sugar, to prevent 
the same result. 

When cream is not abundant, the following receipt 
can be used for a quart of whip. 

WHIPPED CREAM, No. 2. 

MRS. JAMES BIDDLE. 

One pint sweetened cream ; one tablespoonful 
vanilla extract ; two tablepoonfuls wine, sherry ; the 
beaten whites of three eggs. Beat with Dover egg 
beater. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

ADAPTED BY E. T. J. 

One quart of milk ; one-quarter box of Nelson's 
gelatine ; five tablespoonfuls sugar ; five eggs. Put 
the milk into a double boiler, beat the yolks of the 
eggs with the sugar. When the milk boils, remove 



Creams and Jellies. 83 



from fire. Stir in the egg and sugar, return to the 
fire, and stir until it thickens. It will not be very 
thick. Meanwhile dissolve the gelatine in a little hot 
water, on the stove, letting it boil up once. Stir it 
into the custard and set it on the ice or fill the bottom 
part of the double boiler with ice or snow. When 
cool, but not stiff, stir in the flavoring a tablespoon- 
ful of sherry, mixed with the same quantity of sugar, 
a dessertspoonful of vanilla, and five drops of extract 
of rose. 

When the custard is stiff enough to hold the spoon, 
stir in lightly, with a fork, the beaten whites of the 
five eggs, being careful to add them at once, upon the 
mixture becoming thick, as it hardens almost imme- 
diately, and if at all too stiff, the cream will be 
ruined. Fill the cups or moulds, and turn out on a 
dish when quite set. 

COFFEE JELLY. 

MRS. A. B. ADAMS. 

Allow a quarter box of Nelson's gelatine to soak an 
hour in a half pint of cold coffee. Then heat a 
pint and a half of made coffee; add three table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, and pour it over the soaked gela- 
tine. Put in moulds, rinsed in cold water, and set on 
ice. Eat with cream and sugar, or whipped cream. 



84 Receipts. 



CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

MRS. C. W. GRANT. 

Make a rich custard, with a half a pint of milk, 
three eggs, and eight tablespoonfuls sugar. When still 
hot, add one-third box of Nelson or Cox's gelatine, 
which, dissolved in a little water, has boiled up once 
on the stove. Over a spirit lamp, it will boil in one 
moment. It should be stirred constantly, and will be 
found dissolved thoroughly. Stir it gradually into the 
custard. Fill the lower part of the double boiler in 
which the custard was made with snow or pounded 
ice, and set in a cold place. This will thicken so 
quickly that you will have barely time to prepare the 
other ingredients before the custard is congealed. 
Flavor a quart of cream with a tablespoonful of sugar, 
and whip stiff with a Dover egg-beater. Line the 
sides and bottom of two oval or oblong pans with lady 
fingers, or strips of sponge cake, two inches wide, from 
which the crust is removed. By this time the custard 
will probably be about as stiff as boiled oatmeal. 
Flavor with half a wineglass of sherry, five drops of 
rose water, and a dessertspoonful of vanilla extract. 
Put a spoonful of sugar into the wine before stirring 
it into the custard. Quickly add the whipped cream, 
because the mixture hardens very rapidly when it be- 



Creams and Jellies. 85 

gins to thicken. Stir in gently, but thoroughly, with a 
fork, taking care to reach the bottom. If the custard 
is found to be quite stiff, it should be set into boiling 
water and beaten hard until it softens, as it will be 
ruined should the cream and custard not thoroughly 
mix, Fill the pans and set in a cold place. It will 
easily turn out upon a dish, by running a knife be- 
tween the cake and the pan, inverting the pan upon a 
dish and tapping the bottom with the knife handle. 

If only a pint of cream can be obtained, the char- 
lotte will still be very nice, but will fill only one pan. 
Should the snow or ice melt before the mixture is 
hard, replenish it. 

This is the best receipt for charlotte russe known. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE, No. 2. 

MRS. JAMES DIDDLE. 

One-third box gelatine in a half pint of new milk. 
Soak for an hour and then dissolve, by setting the 
bowl in a pail of hot water on the stove. Stir the 
yolks of four eggs into three pints of cream, sweetened 
and flavored with vanilla. Stir in the gelatine. When 
it begins to stiffen, add the well-beaten whites of four 
eggs. Line the mould with sponge cake. When the 
mixture is stiff, pour in mould. 



86 Receipts. 



CHARLOTTE RUSSE, No. 3. 

(WITH LITTLE OR NO CREAM.) E. T. J. 

One quart milk ; five eggs ; eight tablespoonfuls of 
sugar. Put the milk in a double boiler, beat the yolks 
of the eggs with the sugar. When the milk boils, stir 
in the eggs and sugar. Stir until the custard thick- 
ens. 

Pour a little water upon a third of a box of Nelson 
or Cox's gelatine. Let it boil up once, and stir gradu- 
ally into the custard. Flavor with a half glass of 
sherry, sweetened ; five drops of rose water, and a 
dessertspoonful of vanilla cream. 

Put some snow or ice into the lower part of the 
double boiler. Set the custard into the refrigerator. 
When it begins to thicken, beat the whites of the eggs; 
stir gently into the stiffened custard. If you have a 
little cream, add it to the custard before the eggs. 

Line a mould with lady-fingers, or strips of sponge 
cake ; pour in the custard. It will be found an ex- 
cellent substitute for charlotte russe made of cream. 

MILK BLANC MANGE. 

E. T j. 

Blanc mange can be made palatable with little 
cream, although not so good as when no milk is 
used. 



Creams and Jellies. 87 



Take a third of a box of Nelson's gelatine to a 
quart of milk. Cover the gelatine with half a pint of 
the milk ; let it stand an hour. Heat the milk to 
boiling point, adding to it a little stick cinnamon, 
broken up. Pour the hot milk, through a strainer, 
over the gelatine. When thoroughly dissolved, sweet- 
en the milk, add a half teaspoonful of vanilla, and 
pour into moulds previously rinsed with cold water. 
If you have a little cream, stir it gently into the milk, 
when it is slightly thick. If put in at first, the cream 
will rise to the top. Care must be taken not to let the 
milk first become stiff. 



CREAM BLANC MANGE. 

MRS. ROSE TERRY COOKE. 

Pour half a pint of milk upon a fourth of a box of 
Nelson's gelatine. Let it stand an hour. Heat a pint 
of milk, boiling with it a few bits of stick cinnamon. 
Pour the hot milk over the gelatine ; stir until it dis- 
solves. Add six tablespoonfuls of sugar, a pint of 
cream, a teaspoonful of vanilla extract, and a half 
saltspoonful of salt. Pour into moulds, which have 
been rinsed with cold water. 



88 Receipts. 

CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE. 

MRS. JAMES BIDDLE. 

Grate one and a half cakes of Baker's chocolate (/". <?., 
of the three divisions of a half-pound cake of Baker's 
chocolate, take one and one-half) ; add a little boiling 
water, and stir on the fire until it looks smooth and 
glossy. Melt a quarter box of Nelson's gelatine. 
Boil a pint and a half of milk. When boiling, stir in 
the chocolate. Add five large tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Remove from fire ; add the melted gelatine. Flavor 
with a dessertspoonful of vanilla. 

Pour into moulds, which have been rinsed in cold 
water. 

COFFEE CREAM. 

ADAPTED FROM C. E. OWEN BY E. T. J. 

Make a custard of half a pint of milk, two eggs, and 
four tablespoonfuls sugar. Dissolve a quarter box of 
Nelson's gelatine in a gill of water, on the stove. Let 
it boil up once, and strain into the warm custard. 
Add a gill of very strong coffee, freshly made. Set 
on the ice, and when stiffening, stir in lightly a pint of 
whipped cream. 

Use a fork for mixing. Put in a mould, and eat 
with cream. 

This cream can be prepared by melting the gelatine 



Creams and Jellies. 89 



in a little hot water, adding a half pint of strong made 
coffee and a half pint of hot milk. When cool apd 
stiffening, stir in a pint of cream, whipped. 

STRAWBERRY CREAM. 

ADAPTED FROM C. E. OWEN, BY E. T. J. 

Put half a pint of ripe strawberries, or raspberries, 
through a sieve. Make the fruit very sweet. Dissolve 
half an ounce of gelatine in a saucepan, with two 
tablespoon fuls of cold water, and the juice of a lemon. 
Let it slowly melt. Strain the gelatine into the fruit. 
Set on the ice, and when stiffening, add half a pint of 
cream, whipped with a Dover egg beater. Put in a 
mould. This makes about a pint and a half of the 
cream. 

JELLIED FRUIT. 

ADAPTED FROM CATHARINE OWEN BY E. T. J. 

Dissolve one-third box of Nelson's gelatine in a gill 
of water. Squeeze the juice from a quart of rasp- 
berries, strawberries, currants, or blackberries. Add 
the juice of a lemon. Make very sweet. Warm 
slightly. Stir in the gelatine. Set on ice. When 
beginning to stiffen, stir in lightly a pint of whipped 
cream. Pour into a mould. If you can get no cream, 
add in its place the whites of three eggs, whipped very 
light. 



90 Receipts. 

JELLIED FRUIT, No. 2. 

ADAPTED BY E. T. J. 

Dissolve a third box of Nelson's gelatine in a gill of 
water, on the stove. Rub a quart of raspberries or 
strawberries through a fine sieve, first passing them 
through a potato strainer, to break the fruit. Make it 
very sweet. Add the juice of a lemon. Warm slightly. 
Stir in the gelatine. Set on the ice. When becoming 
stiff, stir in a pint of whipped cream, or the beaten 
whites of three eggs. Pour in a mould. If eggs are 
used, the charlotte should be eaten with a little cream. 

This preparation can be made with other fruits, such 
as perfectly ripe peaches, pine apple, grated, or with 
bananas. 

It is better, however, made from small fruits, which 
are juicy. Great care should be taken to make the 
fruit pulp sweet enough not to curdle the cream. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

ADAPTED BY E. T. J. 

The juice of four oranges and two lemons should be 
used for a quart of jelly. Take a third of a package 
of Nelson's gelatine (a fourth will do in cold weather), 
pour over it a half pint of water, let it stand an hour. 
The grated peel of one lemon and one orange may be 



Creams and Jellies. 91 



added then to the gelatine. Pour over it, when soaked 
an hour, a pint and a half of boiling water ; stir till 
dissolved. Make the jelly quite sweet. Add the juice 
of the lemons and oranges. The prettiest way of 
serving is to scrape carefully away the pulp of a suffi- 
cient number of oranges, eight probably going to a 
quart of jelly; set them up in a pan of Indian meal, 
fill them with the liquid jelly, nearly full. If carefully 
done, the color of the jelly makes the dish a very 
pretty one. 

WINE JELLY. 
E. T. j. 

The ordinary long process of making wine jelly is to 
be found in all the books of receipts. With great 
care, the making can be rendered much more simple. 

Put the package of Nelson's gelatine on the stove, in 
a small saucepan, with half a pint of hot water. Watch 
it carefully and stir constantly; in a minute it will boil 
up and thoroughly dissolve. Meanwhile have boiling 
two quarts of water. Pour it over four sticks of cinna- 
mon, broken up, and the grated peel of two lemons. 
Add the dissolved gelatine, stirring well ; a pint of 
sherry or Rhine wine ; the juice of three lemons, and, 
if desired, of one orange. Make the jelly very sweet, 
adding, last of all, a wineglass of brandy. Strain 



92 Receipts. 

through a muslin cloth, laid on a hair sieve, into 
moulds, and set on ice. If set in ice water, or in water 
often changed, the jelly will become firm in three- 
quarters of an hour, the whole process taking only an 
hour. 

SWEET CIDER JELLY. 

MRS. HENRY ABBEY. 

Soak a package of gelatine in half a pint of cold 
water for an hour. Meanwhile let two quarts of sweet 
cider be poured over the peel of two lemons and a few 
sticks of cinnamon, broken up. Strain out the lemon 
and cinnamon, after an hour's soaking. Pour a quart 
of boiling water over the gelatine, and stir until dis- 
solved. 

Add the cider and the juice of three lemons. Make 
the liquid quite sweet. Strain and set away in moulds. 
A little more cinnamon may be used than for wine jelly, 
and a glass of brandy, if desired. 

APPLE MERINGUE. 

MRS. GEO. BRINLEY. 

Pare and quarter six large apples (greenings or king 
apples are best). Make a syrup of a pint of boiling 
water and a large teacup of white sugar. When boil- 
ing, drop in a third of the apples; let them cook until 



Creams and Jellies. 93 



clear, but not broken. Remove them to a pudding 
dish, draining the syrup back into the saucepan. Drop 
half the remaining apples into the syrup. When all 
are cooked, the syrup will probably be thick enough to 
pour over the apple in the dish. If not, allow it to 
cook a few moments longer, taking care that it does 
not burn. 

Make a meringue of the whites of three eggs and 
twelve tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Beat the 
eggs light, add the sugar, half the juice of a lemon, 
three drops of extract of rose. Spread the meringue 
over the apple ; set it in a cool oven, and leave the 
door open, while the meringue slowly dries. It should 
be in the oven twenty minutes. 

Eat with cream. 

The flavoring of the meringue can be varied, if de- 
sired, but nothing should be added to the cooked 
apples, provided the apples are fine. 

The dish should be eaten cold. 



SNOWS, 



LEMON OR ORANGE SNOW. 

r I A HE juice of three or four large lemons, the grated 
<*- peel of two; whites of four eggs, beaten stiff; a 
quarter box of Nelson's gelatine; one cup of cold 
water ; one pint boiling water ; one large wineglass 
sherry ; a half teaspoonful nutmeg ; two cups pow- 
dered sugar. 

Pour the cup of cold water over the gelatine. Add 
lemon juice, peel, nutmeg, and sugar. Cover and let it 
stand an hour. 

Pour over this the boiling water, and, when dis- 
solved, add the wine. Set on ice. When as stiff as 
oatmeal porridge, add the whites of eggs, stirring in 
lightly with a fork. Put in an oblong mould and set 
on ice. Serve on a platter, with a bit of laced paper 
under the form, which, when turned out, looks like a 
block of ice, or frozen snow. Eat with cream and 
sugar, or with a little whipped cream. 

Orange snow can be made in the same way, using 
four oranges and one lemon. 



Snows. 95 

PINEAPPLE SNOW. 

ADAPTED BY E. T. J. 

Grate a fresh pineapple, or take a can of pineapple 
put up by a reliable maker. If the latter is used, the 
pineapple should be chopped fine and stewed tender. 

Soak a quarter box of Nelson's gelatine in half a 
pint of cold water, for an hour. Measure the pine- 
apple, and if there is a pint, take only half a pint of 
boiling water to pour over the gelatine. If less than a 
pint of pineapple, make up the quantity by hot water. 
Pour it over the soaked gelatine, stir till dissolved, add 
two cups of sugar, the grated pineapple, a glass of sherry. 
If desired, the liquid can be strained to extract the grated 
pineapple, and where canned chopped pineapple is 
used, it is necessary to strain it out. With the grated 
fresh pineapple it is better left in. Set on ice. When 
nearly stiff, add the whites, well beaten, of four eggs. 

Put in a mould, as with lemon snow. Turn out and 
eat with cream. 

CREAM SNOW. 

E. T. J. 

Soak a quarter box of Nelson's gelatine in half a pint 
of milk one hour. Heat a pint and a half of cream ; pour 
on the soaked gelatine till dissolved. Add a cup and 



96 Receipts. 



a half of sugar, two tablespoon fuls of rum, or a des- 
sertspoonful of vanilla, six drops of rose, and ten drops 
of almond, or any flavor. Set on ice. When nearly 
stiff, stir in the whites of four eggs, beaten stiff. Pour 
in mould, and, when stiff, turn out on dish. 

APPLE SNOW. 

MRS. A. B. ADAMS. 

Beat, very light, the whites of two eggs. Stew and 
make very sweet three fine apples. Strain through a 
sieve or fine strainer. Flavor with the grated peel of a 
lemon and three drops of extract of rose. Beat, a spoon- 
ful at a time, the strained and sweetened apple into the 
white of egg. If carefully done, the mixture will hold 
all the apple. Beat it, with a Dover egg-beater, in the 
bowl in which it goes to table. Eat with cream. 



ICES AND ICE CREAMS. 



ICE CREAM, WITH LITTLE CREAM. 
E. T. j. 

BOIL one quart of milk in double boiler. Beat five 
eggs, separately. Add to the yolks ten table- 
spoonfuls sugar. When the milk boils, pour it over 
the yolks and sugar, beating hard. Then quickly pour 
the whole over the beaten whites, and return at once 
to the fire. Stir gently, now and then, until the mass 
thickens. It will be foamy to the bottom of the 
boiler, if carefully made. 

When thick, remove from stove and set in a cold 
place. When quite cold, add what cream you can get, 
a pint if possible, a half pint will do. Flavor the 
cream with a tablespoonful of vanilla extract. Stir 
gently into the custard, which should not have one 
drop of liquid remaining, but be all like beaten cream. 

Freeze in patent freezer. If a pint of cream is used, 
this receipt will make nearly a gallon of ice cream. It 
is as much custard as can properly be put into a gallon 
freezer. It is the best substitute for ice cream made 
entirely of cream, known to cookery. 



98 Receipts. 



Cream for freezing should never, in summer, stand 
over twelve hours; in winter, it may be left twenty- 
four hours. Any suspicion of want of freshness should 
cause the rejection of cream for freezing. Some 
chemical change, as yet not understood, but which has 
been proved dangerous, takes place in the process of 
freezing. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM. 

Make very sweet two quarts and a pint of sweet 
cream, using ten tablespoon fuls of sugar, granulated, 
with a large tablespoonful of vanilla extract, or the 
grated rind of a lemon, for flavoring. 

This quantity will nearly fill, when frozen in the Star 
or any other first-class patent freezer, a gallon can. 

The cream may be varied, by using less flavoring 
and serving with crystalized apricots, chopped, and 
put on the same plate. 

Crystalized apricots, plums, peaches, cherries, or any 
fruit, except pears, limes, and small green oranges, may 
be chopped and added to the cream, when frozen, 
before repacking. 

Ripe strawberries, well sugared and firm, may be 
lightly stirred into the cream when frozen. 



Ices and Ice Creams. 99 

LEMON ICE CREAM. 

ADAPTED BY E. T. J. 

To a quart of cream add the grated rind of one fine 
lemon, and sweeten it sufficiently. When frozen and 
ready to repack, stir into the cream the juice of the 
lemon, made thick with sugar, If the cream is per- 
fectly sweet, this will not curdle it. 

ORANGE ICE CREAM. 

ADAPTED BY E. T. J. 

To a quart of cream, made very sweet, add, when 
frozen and ready to repack, the juice of two oranges, 
made stiff with sugar. It can be thoroughly mixed, 
by turning the dasher several times. Small bits of 
fresh orange, free from skin and membrane, can be 
stirred into it at same time. 

BANANA ICE CREAM. 

MRS. JOHN WHITE. 

Make ice cream as in receipt on page 97, and when 
frozen, add a dozen ripe bananas, peeled and sliced. 
Stir in gently and pack in mould. The vanilla flavor- 
ing may be omitted, and a glass of well-sweetened 
sherry stirred in just before freezing. 

Another method is to grate ten ripe bananas, mix 
them with three pints of rather thin cream. Sweeten 



100 Receipts. 



well and freeze. Some fresh sliced banana can be 
stirred in before the cream is repacked. 

BRANDY-PEACH ICE CREAM. 

MRS. JOHN F. MINES. 

Pour off part of the syrup from a can of peaches. 
Pour over them enough brandy to thoroughly flavor 
them. Let them stand several hours. Chop the 
peaches fine. Add a quart of cream, first sweetening 
the peaches, and freeze. 

PEACH ICE CREAM. 

E. T. J. 

This is one of the most delicious of all frozen dishes. 

Rub a dozen or fifteen ripe peaches, pared and 
stoned, through a sieve. Make it very sweet. Add an 
equal quantity of sweet cream, measured, and freeze. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 

E. T. J. 

Rub one quart of perfectly ripe strawberries through 
a hair sieve. With some care, the fruit will all pass 
through, leaving the seeds in the sieve. Make the 
strawberry pulp very sweet, using about a pound and a 
half of sugar. Add to this a quart of cream, which need 
not be very thick, and freeze. A pint of rich cream 



Ices and Ice Creams. 101 

can be diluted with a pint of milk. This quantity, 
when frozen, will yield over three quarts of ice. 

It is one of the most delicious ices known to the 
chef's art. 

If the mixture is very thick, a pint of milk can still 
be added. 

The substance of the frozen cream is of velvet 
softness. 

APRICOT ICE CREAM. 
E. T. j. 

This cream is made as in the preceding receipt, 
using ripe apricots, instead of peaches. 

If ripe, fresh apricots cannot be obtained, the large 
California apricots, in cans, put up by the Golden Gate 
Packing Company, can be used, discarding the juice, 
and rubbing the fruit only through the sieve. Canned 
peaches, for some unexplained reason, cannot be used 
in this way. They have a peculiar, tin flavor, which is 
strongly developed in freezing. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. 

Make a custard as in the receipt for ice cream, given 
on page 97. Melt a quarter of a pound of Baker's 
chocolate in a little water, scraping the chocolate fine 
and stirring it on the stove until it has boiled two or 
three minutes and is quite smooth. Add the cream, 



102 



a pint or less, to the melted chocolate. When the 
custard is quite cold, add the cream and chocolate with 
a tablespoonful of vanilla extract, and freeze. 

COFFEE ICE CREAM. 

Prepare the custard as in receipt on page 97. Add to 
a pint of cream a pint of strong, clear coffee, well sweet- 
ened. Mix with the custard, when cold, and freeze. 

BISCUIT ICE CREAM. 

Grate ten Naples or sponge biscuit, the square cakes 
made by confectioners, which are dry. Make a cus- 
tard, as in receipt first given. Add the grated sponge 
cakes to the sweetened and flavored cream, and freeze. 

A still better way is to take two quarts and a pint of 
sweet cream, sweeten with eight tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, and flavor with a tablespoonful of vanilla ex- 
tract. Add the grated sponge cake, and freeze. 



ICES. 

The old method of making ices is so inferior to that 
where the body of the fruit, rubbed through a sieve, is 
used, that no receipts, save for the latter, are given, 
except for lemon or orange ices In preparing these 
ices, great care must be taken to sweeten the fruit 
thoroughly, as it is said to lose this quality in freezing. 
These fruit ices, which I have called "frozen fruits," 
are of the consistence of the most velvety ice cream, 
and can be made of almost any fruit which is ripe and 
juicy. The color of the ices is beautiful, especially of 
the raspberry. 

LEMON ICE. 

E. T. J. 

For a gallon of ice, take the juice of eight fine 
lemons and four oranges. Add two pounds of granu- 
lated sugar, and two quarts and a pint of water. Just 
before putting into the freezer, add the whites of five 
well-beaten eggs. 

ORANGE ICE. 

E. T. J. 

Peel ten fine oranges, remove all the white skin, and 
rub through a fruit strainer (the new mashers, which 



104 Receipts. 



are used for preparing potatoes a la neige, will do for 
this purpose, but in that case the oranges must be first 
cut into bits). Add to the orange the juice of three 
lemons, and a pound and a half of sugar. If the fruit 
is sour, more sugar may be required. If you have a 
little of the sweet preserved orange, it is very nice, 
added after the ice is frozen, before repacking. It 
should be chopped very fine. 



FROZEN FRUIT ICES. 



FROZEN STRAWBERRIES. 

MRS. JOHN C. WHITE. 

STRAIN three pints or two quarts of fine ripe, fresh 
strawberries through a hair sieve. It is better to 
first mash the fruit with a silver spoon ; cover it with a 
pound of granulated sugar, and let it stand several 
hours before straining. 

Add to the strained fruit the juice of one fine lemon, 
two pounds of sugar ; but if one pound was previously 
used over the bruised fruit, add now only one pound 
more ; three pints of cold water, and freeze in patent 
freezer. 

The consistence is quite unlike a water ice, but deli- 
cately smooth, and the color is brilliantly crimson. 

FROZEN APRICOTS. 

ADAPTED BY E. T. J. 

Rub a dozen or two ripe apricots through a sieve. 
Make the fruit very sweet. Add the juice of one 
lemon and three pints of water. This quantity will 
be, when frozen, about three quarts. 



106 Receipts. 



If fresh apricots cannot be obtained, the large Cali- 
fornia apricots, in cans, put up by the Golden Gate 
Packing Company, are a very good substitute. One 
can, using both fruit and syrup, with three pints of 
cold water, will make nearly a gallon of ice. Very 
little additional sugar will be required, and the lemon 
juice should be used. 

FROZEN PEACHES. 

ADAPTED BY E. T. J. 

This can only be made of fresh peaches, those in 
cans being unfit for substitute. 

Rub the peaches through a sieve a wire sieve will 
do, since there are no seeds to remove. Add enough 
sugar to make very sweet, the juice of one lemon, and 
three pints of water, and freeze. After the fruit is 
frozen, but not repacked, eight very ripe, fresh peaches, 
peeled and cut in small bits, may be stirred in. 

Twelve fine peaches, with the above quantity of 
water, will make over three quarts of ice. 

PEACH ICE. 

MRS. JOHN BURNHAM. 

Take a can of Richardson & Robbins' peaches, 
which are put up in dry sugar. Rub them through a 
fine sieve. Make them quite sweet. Add a little 



Ices and Ice Creams. 107 

lemon juice, to bring out the flavor, and the well- 
beaten whites of three eggs. Freeze in patent freezer. 

FROZEN RASPBERRIES AND BLACKBERRIES. 

MRS. JOHN C. WHITE. 

Proceed as for frozen strawberries. If desired, a 
quart of firm, ripe berries, well sugared, but which 
have not been standing, can be lightly stirred into the 
ice, after it is frozen, but before repacking. 

FROZEN PINEAPPLE. 

MRS. JOHN C. WHITE. 

Pare carefully a large pineapple, removing all the 
pits and tough sections. Grate it into a large dish, 
carefully avoiding the stringy fibre about the core. 
Make the fruit very sweet, using a pound and a half of 
sugar at least. Add the juice of one lemon and three 
pints of cold water. This will make nearly a gallon of 
fruit ice. When frozen, it will be perfectly white, 
thick, and soft, like cream ice. 



SWEETMEATS AND PICKLES. 



SOUTHERN SWEETMEATS. 

MRS. HABERSHAM. 

OOUTHERN housekeepers have the secret of pre- 
^ serving fruit whereby it retains its shape and 
color, without the loss which continuous cooking en- 
tails. The process is, in fact, merely a return to the 
methods of our grandmothers, and experience proves 
that the additional labor is well repaid by the results. 

In the case of figs or oranges, two days' immersion 
in brine is necessary, but the subsequent steps are the 
same for all fruits preserved whole. 

For all fruit, save strawberries raspberries, black- 
berries, allow a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit, 
which must, of course, be very carefully looked over, 
all which, while not positively injured, are soft, being 
rejected. Over ripe fruit will never keep, however 
carefully preserved. Make a syrup of the sugar and a 
ve,ry little water, in the preserving kettle. When near 
boiling point, put in the fruit ; and it is better to do 
this in instalments, a part at one time, to avoid break- 
ing. Let it boil gently three minutes, remove from 



Sweetmeats and Pickles. 109 



syrup with a skimmer, place in a deep dish or jar. 
Cook the rest in the same way, and, lastly, pour over 
the whole the hot syrup, and allow it to remain in it 
two days. In that time the half-cooked fruit will 
absorb the syrup and become plump, preserving its 
shape as it can in no other way. On the third day, 
pour off the syrup into the kettle. When at boiling 
point, put in as much fruit as will cover the surface of 
the liquid, let it cook very gently and slowly until 
quite clear, take out the fruit with a skimmer or fork, 
fill the jars two-thirds full, and let them stand in a 
warm place. Cook in this way the balance of the 
fruit, and when all is removed from the syrup, boil it 
quickly for five or ten minutes, skimming carefully. 
Set the jars, one at a time, in a pan of boiling water on 
the stove, pouring a little hot syrup in each, to pre- 
vent the unequal expansion of the glass. Fill up each 
to overflowing, and screw on the cover, removing it 
then at once from the water, and screwing it tighter. 

SMALL FRUITS. 

MRS. HABERSHAM. 

The small fruits, of which jams are made, although 
not requiring such careful treatment, are better to 
be partially cooked and put away for a day or two. 
Allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar to one of 



110 Receipts. 



fruit, put over the fruit and sugar together, let it slowly 
come to boiling point, boil two or three minutes, then 
set it away. The third day, boil slowly until the fruit 
is clear and the whole mass somewhat thick. Under 
the old process, the fruit was stewed down to the con- 
sistency of jam, then put up in small jars or tumblers, 
with a thin paper laid over it, and a cloth pasted over 
the top. The long boiling, however, does certainly 
injure the fruit flavor, and the above method is pre- 
ferable. Put the sweetmeats into glass jars as directed 
above. 

APPLE SWEETMEATS: 

MRS. C. A. TERRY. 

Pare, core, and quarter greenings, pippens, or king 
apples. Weigh them, and allow a half pound of sugar 
to one pound of apple. Make a syrup of two quarts 
of water to three pounds of sugar. When boiling, 
drop in enough apples to cover the surface of the 
kettle. Let them cook slowly until clear. Put them 
into the glass jars, filling each half full. Set them 
where the sweetmeats will keep warm. Drop more 
apples into the syrup. When six pounds of apple are 
cooked, set each jar (half full of preserved apples) into 
a saucepan of boiling water ; fill up with the boiling 
syrup, and screw on the covers, removing immediately 



Sweetmeats and Pickles. Ill 

from the stove. Make fresh syrup, and proceed with 
more quartered apple, as before. If fine apples are 
used, this sweetmeat will be found delicious. It can 
be used for apple meringue. 

BRANDY PEACHES. 

CLARK, OF NEW YORK CITY, CONFECTIONER. 

Choose ripe but not soft peaches Morris whites are 
best. Allow for each jar as many peaches as will fill it 
one and a half times. Prepare a weak solution of pearl- 
ash and water ; drop the peaches in for a long enough 
time to allow of the skin being rubbed off. Rub it off 
carefully with a linen cloth, dropping the peach into a 
bowl of cold water. It will be better for two persons 
than one to attend to this process. As quickly as pos- 
sible remove the peaches; boil them gently in clear 
water until the flesh of the peach seems loosened from 
the stone, taking great care not to allow the fruit to be 
broken nor to become soft. 

Drain carefully with a skimmer from the water, and 
fill the jars with the peaches to the brim. Allow a 
pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. Scatter the 
sugar in layers between the peaches in the jar. Fill up 
the jar with white brandy. Seal carefully. 

In making brandy peaches, pure spirit can be used. 



112 Receipts. 



PICKLED PINEAPPLE. 

MRS. WM. J. BOARDMAN. 

To six pounds of thoroughly ripe* pineapples allow 
three pounds of sugar, a quart of vinegar, two ounces 
of clove, and two ounces of stick cinnamon. Cut the 
pineapple, after paring it, into small squares; place 
these in a stone jar ; make a syrup of the sugar, vin- 
egar, and spices, and pour it over the pineapple while 
boiling hot. Repeat this process three successive days, 
then cover tightly to exclude the air. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLE. 

MRS. SHELDON PEASE. 

One peck of green tomatoes, sliced thin, stems re- 
moved. Let them stand two days in strong brine, 
changing it daily. Drain off the brine. Add to the 
tomato twelve onions, peeled and sliced, two ounces 
of the prepared mixed spices. Nearly cover the 
pickles in the kettle with vinegar. Let them cook very 
gently, on the back of the stove, until slightly tender. 
Put into glass jars (pint), standing the jars, while 
filling, in boiling water, to repel the air, then screwing 
on cover and removing at once from fire. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS. 



CHICKEN SALAD. 

E. T. J. 

T) ECEIPTS for making chicken salad are to be 
-" fourd in every cook book, and the present rule 
is only designed to show how expeditiously it can be 
made, if haste is necessary. 

To make chicken salad for twenty-five people, take a 
two-pound can of Richardson & Robbins' compressed 
chicken. Although it costs seventy-five cents a pound, 
as every bit of it can be used, it is really not more ex- 
pensive than ordinary chicken, while the truffles and jelly 
in the compressed chicken add to the flavor of the 
salad. The only thing to be removed is the skin. 
Cut the chicken down through in slices, and these into 
dice. Add to it twice as much celery, cut in small 
bits. Marinate the mixture with three tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar to nine tablespoonfuls of oil. If this is not 
enough liquid to pervade the whole mass, add more oil 
and vinegar in the proportion of one spoonful of vine- 
gar to three of oil. Season it to taste with salt. Just 
before going to table, pour over it the mayonnaise, 



114 Receipts. 

which, if made by the receipt given on page 116, for 
the Keystone egg-beater dressing, renders the whole 
process a very simple and expeditious one. 

The cream dressing for which the receipt is given 
below, is still better than mayonnaise for chicken 
salad. 

SOUTHERN SALAD. 

MRS. GEORGE BELKNAP. 

Choose the hearts only of young lettuces ; pile them 
high in your salad bowl ; pour over the lettuce a may- 
onnaise dressing, and scatter over the whole a shower 
of white or red rose leaves, or place on the top of the 
pile a handful of English violets, serving some of the 
flowers with the lettuce. 

CREAM DRESSING. 

DELMONICO. 

Rub together, in a china bowl, a large tablespoonful 
of butter, four tablespoon fuls of vinegar, a half tea- 
spoonful of salt, and a saltspoonful of flour of mustard. 
The mustard can be omitted, if objected to. Place the 
bowl in a saucepan of boiling water, over a spirit lamp 
or on the stove. Stir the mixture carefully until very 
hot, to prevent the butter oiling. When sufficiently 
hot, add two well-beaten eggs, stir until thick, then 



Salads and Salad Dressings. 115 

pour in a cup of cream. Stir until smooth, remove 
from fire, and allow it to get perfectly cold. 

This dressing, which is a modification of a receipt of 
Delrnonico's, is suitable for any salad. 

CREAM DRESSING, No. 2. 

E. T. J. 

The previous receipt can be modified in several 
ways, and, indeed, can be made very good without 
cream. 

Rub together one tablespoonful of butter, three 
tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and a teaspoonful of tarragon 
vinegar, if desired, a half teaspoonful of salt, and a 
saltspoonful of mustard. Place in a china bowl, in a 
saucepan of boiling water, and stir until very hot. 
Add to it two well-beaten eggs, and, when the mixture 
is thick, remove from the fire, adding a cup of cream, 
which, if sour, is still better, care being taken that it is 
merely turned, and not old or cheesy. 

If no cream can be had, the quantity of butter can 
be doubled, and three-quarters of a cup of milk used. 

The mixture should be well beaten when the cream 
is added, then set on ice, stirring occasionally. It will 
keep for some time in a glass jar. 

An excellent salad is made by chopping fine, firm 



116 Receipts. 



white cabbage, or the small imported cabbages brought 
in the spring, and using the cream dressing upon it. 

The dressing is especially good for any green salad, 
even for lettuce, where mayonnaise is not suitable. 

Sour milk is preferable to sweet milk in making the 
dressing. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

KEYSTONE EGG-BEATER RECEIPTS. 

The introduction of the Keystone egg beater has 
revolutionized the art of making mayonnaise dressing. 
The former tedious process has now given place to the 
work of four or five minutes. 

Put into the glass receptacle of the Keystone beater a 
teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of mustard, the yolks 
of two raw eggs, and a gill (a sherry glassful) of oil. 
Turn it a minute, add a gill of oil and a teaspoonful of 
vinegar, and continue to add these ingredients in the 
same proportion, beating the mixture a minute between 
each addition. The two eggs will take about a quart 
of oil, if necessary. The dressing will take only five 
minutes to make, and is like yellow jelly. 



SAUCES. 



TOMATO CATSUP. 

ADAPTED BY E. T. J. 

Take a gallon of ripe tomatoes, cut them in quarters, 
removing the stem and green parts. Stew them slowly 
until quite soft, but not until disintegrated, with six 
large onions, cut in quarters. Strain through a sieve 
or tin fruit strainer. To every gallon of liquid add 
two tablespoon fuls of salt, one and a half tablespoon- 
fuls of ground black pepper, two tablespoon fuls flour 
of mustard, a tablespoonful ground allspice, a half 
tablespoonful of cloves, a very little red pepper. 

Boil all together, slowly, for an hour, until tolerably 
thick. Add a pint of vinegar to each gallon of liquid, 
pour through a funnel into jpint ale bottles. Seal with 
wax, and keep in a cool place. It will require to be 
shaken before decanting into the cruet, and is better 
the third than the first year after making. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

MRS. VAN REED. 

Put into a hot saucepan a tablespoonful of butter, 
and when it begins to brown, put in it a small 



118 Receipts. 

onion, chopped fine. Fry a light brown, turn into it a 
pint of tomatoes, cut fine, or half a can of tomatoes, half 
a teacup of bread crumbs, a quarter teaspoonful of salt, 
a little pepper. Let it stew gently, on the back of the 
stove, an hour. Strain through a medium-sized strainer 
into a hot saucepan, or over the dish for which it is 
designed. A little stock added before straining im- 
proves it, but, in that case, more bread crumbs must 

be used. 

BROWN SAUCE. 

MISS PARLOA. 

Heat three tablespoonfuls butter in a frying pan, and 
when it begins to turn brown, add two tablespoonfuls 
flour. Stir over the fire until smooth and dark-colored, 
put on back of stove, and add one and a half cupfuls 
stock. If you have no stock, use milk or water, or 
both. Stir until it boils, then simmer three minutes. 
Season with half a teaspoonful salt, one-eighth tea- 
spoonful pepper, and one tablespoonful tomato catsup. 
This sauce, especially used for a timbale made of cold 
meat, can be flavored with chopped mushrooms, which 
have been previously stewed (whole) gently for an 
hour in the stock. As the liquid will diminish in bulk, 
use two full cups of stock. Mushrooms which are 
canned are unfit for use unless so stewed, being other- 
wise tough as white kid. 



Sauces. . 119 

CREAM SAUCE. 

MISS C. M. ELY. 

Add to drawn butter a teacup of cream, with a little 
mace and nutmeg to flavor it. Use with boiled fowl. 

WHITE SAUCE. 

MRS. GEORGE WILLIAMSON SMITH. 

Put a large tablespoonful of butter in a hot saucepan ; 
stir it over the fire until bubbling; add two teaspoonfuls 
of flour. Cook until quite smooth ; stir in two-thirds 
of a pint of hot milk, or milk and water; add salt, 
and, just before taking from the fire, one well-beaten 
egg. If to be used for macaroni, add a tablespoonful 
of grated Parmesan cheese. If for fish or boiled fowl, 
add chopped hard-boiled eggs, or a dozen oysters, 
which should be stewed five minutes. 

FISH SAUCE. 

Make drawn butter as in preceding receipt ; just be- 
fore serving, add two teaspoonfuls lemon-juice. Water 
should be used for this sauce instead of milk. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



FRITTERS. 

MRS. JAMES BIDDLE. 

One quart sifted flour. Pour over it, slowly, one 
quart of boiling water, stirring all the time. Four 
eggs, beaten light and stirred into the batter, when it 
becomes cool ; a half teaspoonful of salt. Fry in boil- 
ing lard. A large quantity of lard is necessary. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

MISS E. W. CLOSSON. 

Two cups of sugar ; three-fourths cup of butter 
half cup grated chocolate (Baker's) ; one cup warm 
water. Boil, without stirring, until the syrup will snap 
in cold water. Pour in a pan, and, when pretty cold, 
score in squares. 

CHOCOLATE. 

MISS EVARTS. 

The best sweetened chocolate must be used. Break 
the cakes in pieces, and set in a warm place to melt ; 
put it then into a farina kettle, pouring over it boiling 



Miscellaneous. 121 



milk and stirring constantly. Serve in cups, and cap 
with whipped cream. 

The proportion of chocolate depends upon the qual- 
ity desired. To make very thick chocolate, a quarter 
pound to each half pint of milk is not too much. 

KOUMISS OR KUMYS. 

MISS C. M. ELY. 

To each bottle of fresh cow's milk add two tea- 
spoonfuls of home-made yeast, or one teaspoon ful of 
distillery yeast ; sweeten with brown sugar or malt ; 
cork the bottles tightly at once, and set in the refrige- 
rator. The bottles must be of the patent kind used for 
lager beer. The yeast and sugar may be put in the 
above proportions into each bottle of milk, which is 
then corked and wired, instead, as formerly, allowing 
it to rise before bottling. 

It can be used in three days, but is given as a remedy 
when from four to eight days old. 

SAGO JELLY. 

DR. WEBSTER, U. S. A. 

Mix well together two tablespoonfuls sago, the juice 
and rind of half a lemon, and one pint of water. 
Sweeten to taste. Let it stand half an hour, then let 



122 Receipts. 



it boil, stirring occasionally till clear. Then add two 
tablespoonfuls of wine, and pour into a mould. 

WINE WHEY. 

DR. WEBSTER. 

Boil a half pint of milk, and, when boiling, add one 
wineglass of sherry wine. Strain through a sieve, only 
allowing the whey to run through. Sweeten to taste, 
and grate upon it a little nutmeg. 

BEEF TEA. 

DR. WEBSTER. 

Chop fine one pound of round steak, carefully re- 
moving all fat. Put it into a saucepan, with a pint of 
cold water. Let it simmer on the hearth or on the 
back of the stove for two hours. Remove then to a 
hot place, and boil quickly for half an hour. Season 

with salt. 

CREAM OATMEAL. 

ADAPTED BY E. T. J. 

Boil oatmeal an hour, as for the table. Strain it 
then through a sieve, add a little milk to it, and cook 
it very slowly, in a double boiler, for half an hour 
more. When perfectly smooth, add a little salt and a 
little cream. 

It is the most delicate food that an invalid can take. 



Miscellaneous. 123 



HAIR TONIC. 

DR. C. A. TERRY. 

One drachm sugar of lead ; one drachm lac sulphur; 
eight ounces bay rum ; four ounces Jamaica rum ; two 
ounces glycerine; one teaspoonful salt ; one pint warm 
rainwater. Shake well, and repeat before using. 

This is the best preparation for the hair that can be 

made. 

ENGLISH HAIR WASH. 

MRS. JUDGE PARKER. 

Four ounces bay rum ; two ounces whiskey ; one 
ounce glycerine; one-third ounce tincture cantharides; 
half drachm tannin. 

COLD CREAM. 

MRS. JAMES MIDDLE. 

Two and one-third ounces oil of sweet almonds ; one 
and one-third ounces spermaceti ; half ounce of white 
wax; one ounce rose or orange flower water; a few 
drops oil of neroli. Melt, and, when it begins to cool, 
add the perfume, and beat till cold. 

FURNITURE POLISH. 

MRS. THOS. BELKNAP. 

Two pints of sweet oil, one pint of vinegar. Shake 
well together, in a bottle, and apply with a woolen rag. 



/- 





^ 






t &^*A*4^1 ?*jK^-*^fi 

/ 

(L^lXAT^^ - 



7 







LD 21-100m-12,'43 (8796s) 



YB 67797 



UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY 




