rX 663 

.W88 
Copy 1 



MANUALS OF DOMESTIC WORK, 
zero. 1. 



PRACTICAL 

LESSONS IN COOKERY 



PREPARED FOR THE 



Free.*. School . *. of . \ Cookery . \ and . \ Housework, 



WASHINGTON, D. C. 



> *" v, » 



AND FOR USE IN 



THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS 



WASHINGTON : 

ROBT. S. COOPER, PRINTER. 

1889. 



MANUALS OF DOMESTIC WORK. 

NO. 1. 



Lessons in Cookery, 



PREPARED FOR THE 



First Mission Mml of Cookery and Housework 



AND FOR USE -IN THE 



PUBLIC SCHOOLS. 



BY 

Mrs. Anna Lowell Woodbury. 



^ 



WASHINGTON 



}(e> M ;y 



? 



\ ROBT. S. COOPER, PRINTER. 



889 



K^ 






Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1889, by 

Mrs. Anna Lowell WoovrnpFF/ruji^ 
In the office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. 



PREFACE. 

There is nothing in these lessons which will be new to 
any experienced housekeeper ; for I have merely tried to 
arrange as clearly and concisely as possible some of the 
more important facts and principles of practical cookery, 
in such a form as would best impress . them upon the minds 
of the pupils. If these are fixed in their memories while they 
are young, they will never be entirely. .forgotten, even if not 
put immediately into practice. 

The lessons were planned and partially written about 
ten years ago, when the school was first established, and 
were afterwards completed, and carefully arranged for use 
in the public schools ; where the classes follow each other 
in rapid succession, and it is important that as much infor- 
mation as possible should be given in a limited time. They 
have been in daily use in the mission school for five years, and 
I have myself closely observed each lesson as it was given to 
class after class; and have made any little additions or 
changes which were needed. Families and individuals differ 
so much in their tastes, and their methods of living, that it 
would be impossible, in any school of cookery, to please 
every one ; but a good foundation can be laid, and if the 
facts and principles of practical cookery are well understood 
it is very easy to vary the preparation of any particular 
dish. The first nineteen lessons are intended to teach the 
various processes of cooking, and such dishes were selected 
to exemplify them as would be attractive and interesting to 
the pupils, and useful to them in their homes. For several 
of the recipes I am indebted to friends, and the others were 



IV PREFACE. 

obtained from experienced practical cooks ; they have, how- 
ever, all been more or less changed, and in most of them 
very little is left as it was originally given to me. There 
are many others which are equally good, but these have 
been thoroughly tested by the young ladies who have had 
charge of the classes, and by hundreds of girls, and they 
have proved very satisfactory and well adapted to the pur- 
pose they are intended to serve. I saw that it was im- 
possible to have system or method in schools of cookery, 
without a text-book ; and that no teacher could give her 
attention to the proper preparation of the dishes, and at the 
same time remember to tell her pupils the many little facts 
which it was so important they should know. If the lessons 
are dictated, each pupil should bring a tablet and pencil to 
the class, and should copy the lesson again at home neatly 
in a book, with pen and ink ; and these books ought to be 
brought in every month to the teacher, to be examined and 
corrected. If not dictated, they should be studied and re- 
cited like any other lessons, and the pupils should be fre- 
quently questioned in such a way as will show whether they 
have clearly understood, and fixed in their memories what 
they have been learning. The notes were originally written 
for the normal pupils ; but as they may be of some use to 
the teaaher, I have had them printed with the lessons. 

It may be well to say that the school has never been con- 
nected with any church or association ; — the word mission 
is used in a general sense, and the name was given to it be- 
cause it was established at a time when so little encourage- 
ment was given to this branch of industrial education, that 
any work connected with it might properly be called " mis- 
sion ' ' work. It was the first, or one of the first, free schools 
of cookery established in this country, and as I was particu- 
larly interested in the introduction of cookery into the pub- 



PREFACE. V 

lie school system, classes of girls were invited after school 
hours for many years, until the first class was detailed three 
years ago. They were not only interested themselves, but 
they took pains to interest others, and have done their share 
in forwarding the cause of industrial education. As it 
seems better now that the lessons should be committed to 
memory, I have decided to have them printed ; leaving 
them just as they were written, and in the same simple lan- 
guage in which they were given to the girls. 

A. L. W. 
1205 G Street, Washington, D. C, 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 



In making a fire, first clear the grate, and brush off 
the stove, taking up all the ashes nicely into an old coal- 
hod. Then open the main dampers above and below, put 
in the paper or shavings, and on them lay the pieces of 
kindling wood lightly across each other so that the air may 
pass through. Scatter in a little coal, and light the paper 
with a match. Add more coal slowly, until the fire is well 
kindled, then close the lower drafts, and half-close the 
upper one, and you will have a steady fire, and more heat, 
than you Would if you let it burn up very hot at first. No 
range or stove should be allowed to get red hot, and the 
coal should never come above the fire-bricks, as it checks 
the heat from passing to the oven, and to the top of the 
stove, and also warps the covers. In winter, always see 
that the water pipes are not frozen, as it is dangerous to 
light a fire if there is a boiler connected with them ; and 
never use coal-oil on or near a fire, or in lighting one. 
Placing paper on the top as well as at the bottom in kindling 
a fire, and lighting both, will make it less apt to smoke. 
Soft pine wood split into small pieces, is best for kindling," 
and white ash coal is used for stoves, while Lorberry, or red 
ash coal should be used in ranges. An old dust brush should 
be kept for use on the range and hearth. The hands should 
always be nicely washed before beginning to cook, and the 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 7 

head should be protected by a cap, or covering of some 
kind. 

TIP-TOP BISCUIT. 

Sift one quart of flour. Add two full teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, and one teaspoonful of salt, and sift it again. 
Rub one large tablespoonful of butter through the flour, 
and then stir in slowly with a spoon, one cup of sweet 
milk, or enough to make a soft dough. Flour the bread 
board, and turn the dough onto it with the spoon. Toss 
it lightly from side to side a few times with a knife, and 
then roll it out about one-half of an inch thick, and cut 
into very small round biscuit. Place one-half of these in 
the pan, and rub the top of each with a little milk ; then 
place the others on top of them, and bake in a quick oven 
for twenty minutes. These biscuit should not be larger 
than a half-dollar, and can be cut with the cover of a small 
tin box. They can also be made richer with a little more 
butter, and baked as single biscuit. In this case, make 
of the usual size. 



NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 

Show the pupils how to mix and handle dough lightly 
and quickly ; letting each one in turn have a lesson in roll- 
ing and cutting. For a class of twelve girls make the whole 
quantity which is given in the recipe ; and detail one or 
two girls to watch the biscuit in the oven, while others wash 
the dishes, and prepare the room for the next class ; showing 
them how to do everything very nicely. 

The teacher may think it best to have a preparatory 
lesson on the first day of school, and in that case, after the 
names of the pupils have been entered in the class-book, let 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 



them have a short lesson on the various kinds of cooking 
utensils ; and also make the ginger snaps which are given 
in the twenty-first lesson, as they are interesting and easily 
made. 



Hot ashes should never be put into anything which is 
made of wood, as it might cause a dangerous fire. When 
cool, they should be sifted, and the cinders should be picked 
out carefully, and used after dinner or when there is no 
baking or ironing to be done. An open door or window 
opposite a stove will often deaden a fire, or make it smoke 
when first lighted. The upper main damper should always 
be left a little open in order to let off the coal-gas. After 
the breakfast is entirely cooked, put on coal, and keep the 
stove closed unless you have to bake bread, in which case 
the oven dampers must be arranged for that. A clear, 
steady fire is needed for baking, and the simplest way to 
test an oven is to touch it with your finger, wet in cold 
water ; if it hisses loudly, it is hot enough for bread. It is 
important to learn thoroughly how to manage every differ- 
ent stove or range, either from printed directions or from 
some one who understands it ; as a damper must be pulled 
out to heat some ovens, while others are heated by pushing 
in the damper. The soot should be cleaned out from under 
and around the oven once a week with the scraper which 
comes for that purpose ; and the other flues should be cleaned 
occasionally. 

Stove polish should be moistened with water in an old 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 9 

dish, and this with the brushes should be kept together in 
one fixed place. The polish should be put all over the cold 
stove with a rag, and brushed in thoroughly while wet. 
Then polish it with the dry brush, when the stove is a little 
warm. The early morning is therefore the best time to do 
it ; but otherwise it is best to black it at night when the stove 
is a little warm. Stoves are generally blacked every day ; 
but they can be kept very nice by blacking them two or 
three times a week, if care is taken to wipe off everything 
which drops on them. 

SUGAR COOKIES. 

One cup of sugar ; half a cup of butter closely packed ; 
two eggs; one and a half tablespoon fuls of milk ; one- 
quarter of a teaspoonful of ginger; half a teaspoonful of 
grated nutmeg ; and three full cups of flbur with two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder in it. Cream the butter in a 
bowl with a wooden spoon ; and then stir the sugar thor- 
oughly into it. Break in the eggs one at a time, and beat 
the mixture well. Then add the milk and spice, and sift in 
the flour and baking powder gradually. Butter the pans, 
and roll out the dough about an eighth of an inch thick on 
a floured board. Cut out the cookies with a hole in the 
centre, and bake them a light brown in a quick oven. 
These cookies may be rolled a little thicker, and some cara- 
way seeds can be mixed with the dough ; or they may be 
made a little richer and rolled very thin. 



NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 

Make half the quantity given in the recipe, and let the 
pupils practice rolling, cutting and baking. Explain to 



IO MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

them also the management of an oven, and how to prepare 
a fire for baking. If in any of the lessons there should be 
a little unoccupied time, it can be filled by showing the 
pupils how to black the stove, or polish the tinware, or ar- 
range the dressers and closets nicely, or by questioning 
them on the previous lessons. 



There are two kinds of white flour, the old process flour, 
which should be used for cake or pastry, and the new pro- 
cess flour which should be used for bread. The best flour 
is the cheapest in the end, and should be kept in a dry 
place. If it should happen to get damp, it must be dried 
before it is used. If you wish the bread to be moist and 
tender, make a soft dough, and knead it only five or ten 
minutes; but fine-grained, dry bread requires a stiff dough, 
and should be kneaded twenty minutes or more. In knead- 
ing dough on the bread board, pat it lightly and do not 
press it down. Let all motion be as elastic as possible, and 
work it so as as to keep the same smooth side always on the 
board. Use as little flour as possible on the bread board, 
as bread, cake and pastry are made tough by flour added 
in that way ; and for the same reason it is best to cut as 
many cakes as possible from each rolling of the dough. 

Bread and rolls should be made with cold water in sum- 
mer, and put in a cool place to rise. In winter they should 
be made with lukewarm water, and put in a warm place to 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. II 

rise. The bowl or pan should be closely covered with a 
thick cloth kept for that purpose ; and a wooden or tin cover 
should be placed on top of this, as it will make it air tight, 
and prevent a crust from forming on the dough. They 
should be covered in the same way, when set to rise in the 
pans in the morning. Bread should stand ior an hour in 
the pan, and rolls should stand for an hour and a half; but 
they can be hurried by putting them in a warm place. A 
hotter oven is required for rolls than for bread. Always 
watch carefully whatever you are baking in the oven, and 
turn or move it as is required. All yeast should be fresh 
and sweet, and half a cup of baker's, or of home-made 
yeast, will raise two quarts of flour. If part of a cake of 
Fleischman's yeast is left unused, it can be wrapped tightly 
in the tin-foil, and will remain good for a day or two if kept 
in a cool place. 

PLAIN BREAD. 

Sift two quarts of flour with one full teaspoonful of salt 
in it; and then rub into it well one tablespoonful of butter 
or lard. Dissolve one-third of a cake of Fleischman's yeast, 
in a cup of lukewarm water, with one even tablespoonful of 
sugar, and add it to the flour. Then add carefully water 
enough to make a soft dough, stirring it all the time. 
When well mixed, flour the bread board, and turn the dough 
onto it. Knead it five or ten minutes, and then put it 
back into the bowl, covering it closely. Set it to rise, and 
in the morning turn the dough as early as possible onto a 
floured board, and knead it about five minutes. Then put 
it into well buttered pans, filling carefully all the corners, 
and evening the top. Cover it closely and set it to rise 
until it is ready to go into the oven. Bread should always 
be thoroughly baked, and have a light brown crust. The 



12 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

loaves should be taken from the pan at once and wrapped 
in a clean towel. Then stand them on end, resting them 
against a sieve or pan, as hot bread should never be laid 
flat on the table. 



NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 

Before the dictation is given, show the pupils how to 
shape the different kinds of rolls from dough which has 
been prepared beforehand either by the teacher or by an- 
other class, and then put them to rise in a pan in a warm 
place, so that the girls can bake them before they leave. 
After the lesson has been dictated, make one-half of the 
quantity of dough given in the recipe, and leave it to rise 
in the bowl. If several classes are following each other, 
one class can sometimes bake the dough which another has 
mixed. 



Soup stock should be made in a large, tightly covered 
kettle. To every pound of meat or bone allow one quart of 
cold water, one even teaspoonful of salt, and half a tea- 
spoonful of pepper. Whether cooked or uncooked, the 
meat should always be cut into small pieces, and the bones 
should be broken in order to let the marrow come out 
easily. Let the meat stand in the water until it is slightly 
colored with the juice, and then let it come slowly to a boil, 
removing every particle of scum as it rises, or the -soup will 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. I 3 

look and taste unpleasantly. A cup of cold water thrown 
in will cause the scum to rise more readily. Let it boil 
gently and steadily, allowing an hour to every pound of 
meat. The water will boil down to about one-third of the 
original quantity, and the cover of the kettle can be left a 
little off during the last half hour, if it does not boil down fast 
enough. When done, strain it into a bowl or stone jar 
kept for the purpose. In winter it will become a thick 
jelly, but even if it remains liquid it can be used. The 
cake of fat which forms on the top should be left on until 
you are ready to use the stock. This fat, when melted 
and strained, can be used instead of lard for many pur- 
poses, if the stock is made from beef only. The jelly can 
be melted into a strong, clear soup, or it can be diluted 
with an equal quantity of water and made into vegetable or 
other soups, or a little of it can be used in making various 
gravies. White stock is made from veal and poultry. If 
a stock-pot is kept at the back of the stove, it should fre- 
quently be entirely emptied and washed out. 

BOILED POTATOES. 

Select potatoes, if possible, which are of the same size ; 
but if some should happen to be larger than others, they 
can be cut in halves. They may be boiled either with or 
without their skins, but in either case they should be nicely 
washed. The skin of new potatoes can be rubbed off with 
a coarse towel, but old potatoes should be peeled with a 
sharp knife, cutting out carefully all the black specks. Let 
them lie in cold water for several hours, and then put them on 
the fire, with water enough to cover them well, allowing one 
teaspoonful of salt to every quart of water. New potatoes 
should always be put into boiling water, but old ones may 
be put on either in cold or boiling water. They should be 



14 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

cooked about half an hour. When they are tender, pour 
off every drop of water, sprinkle them with a little salt and 
shake them lightly. Set the saucepan at the back of the 
stove and cover it with a clean towel or with the cover, 
which should be left a little off. They should be taken 
from the saucepan singly with a spoon. 

DRAWN BUTTER. 

Melt two ounces (or two full tablespoonfuls) of butter in 
a saucepan, and stir into it gradually one tablespoon ful of 
flour until perfectly smooth. Then slowly add half a pint 
of hot water and a very little salt, and let it cook for a 
minute or two till it thickens, stirring constantly. 

For rich drawn butter, take four ounces of butter and 
the same quantity of flour and of water. 



NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 

The soup stock is not made in this lesson. The potatoes 
should be put in water before the pupils come, so that they 
may put them on the fire before the dictation is given. 
Then let them have a lesson in mashing potatoes, and in 
potato snow ; and make the drawn butter. Explain to them 
also what a stock-pot is. 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 



*5 



Water is boiling when there is active motion, and bubbles 
rise to the top and throw off steam. As the water boils 
more or less violently, this motion will be proportionately 
greater or less. When the bubbles remain underneath the sur- 
face, the water is simmering ; water enough to last through 
the whole time of cooking should be put in at first,, and if 
any is added, it should be actually boiling. Never let any- 
thing stop boiling even for a minute ; and never let anything 
boil very fast, as steady, gentle cooking will make meat and 
vegetables tender, and is better for everything. Meat which 
is to be used for soup should be put on in cold water ; but 
meat which is to be boiled for dinner should be put on in 
boiling water so that the juices may be kept in. 

Soup should be skimmed before the vegetables are put in. 
It may be strained clear into the tureen, or thickened by 
mashing through some of the vegetables, or it may be served 
without straining at all, merely taking out the bone. White 
soups are made from white meats, such as veal and chicken, 
or from oysters, and should be as colorless as possible. 
Brown soups are made from the dark meats, and may be 
colored with a little caramel. Toasted bread cut into small 
square pieces, is often served with clear soup. Vegetables 
which are to be put into soup should be nicely washed and 
prepared as each one may require. A little bouquet of dried 
herbs, with a bay-leaf in it is often boiled in soup, and should 
be taken out before serving it. 



l6 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Dilute two quarts of jellied soup stock with one pint of 
water. Add to it one small parsnip, one small carrot, one 
small turnip, and two small onions, all chopped fine. Also 
half a cupful of chopped cabbage, three tomatoes peeled 
and sliced, or half a pint of canned ones, and half a cupful 
of chopped celery, or half a teaspoonful of celery salt. 
Boil gently for one hour, and then add half a teaspoonful 
of pepper, one saltspoonful of ground cloves, and a little 
salt. Boil a few minutes longer and serve without straining. 
The vegetables can be varied or omitted according to taste, 
and a spoonful of barley or rice can be added if desired. 

This soup can be made from a roast beef bone or from 
soup meat, but the meat should be boiled for some time be- 
fore the vegetables are put in, and should be put on the fire 
several hours before dinner. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Six ounces of yellow corn meal ; four ounces of rye meal ; 
one ounce of white flour ; one even teaspoonful of salt ; one 
even teaspoonful of soda; half a pint of milk; two large 
spoonfuls (half a gill) of molasses ; and water enough to 
make quite a stiff dough. 

Sift the two kinds of meal together, and then sift in the 
flour and salt. Add the molasses, the milk, and the soda 
(dissolved in a little hot water), and lastly add as much 
water as is required. Fill the tin about three quarters full, 
and fasten the cover on tight. Put it into a closed kettle 
with enough boiling water in it to nearly cover the tin and 
let it steam steadily four hours. This bread can be made 
without milk, or with sour milk, in which case the soda is put 
into the milk. If a firm crust is desired, the bread can be 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. I 7 

put into the oven for a short time, after taking it from the 
steamer. 

CARAMEL. 

Melt half a pound of loaf, or brown sugar in a small fry- 
ing pan, with one teaspoonful of water. Stir steadily over 
the fire till it becomes a dark brown color. Then add 
slowly one cup of boiling water, and one teaspoonful of 
salt. Boil a minute longer. After it has cooled, put it in 
a bottle, and keep it tightly corked. One tablespoonful 
will color clear soup ; and a teaspoonful of it is used in some 
kinds of gravy. 



NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 

The stock must be prepared beforehand, and the soup 
with the vegetables should be put on the fire before the dic- 
tation is given, so that it may be ready before the class 
leaves. One-half of the quantity given in the recipe will 
be sufficient, and a little of the caramel can be used in it. 
If several classes are following each other rapidly, it will 
not be possible to make the brown bread, but the pupils 
might be shown how to roll and sift bread crumbs, or any 
other simple thing which may occur to the teacher. 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 



Green vegetables should be fresh and firm, and should be 
nicely washed before they are cooked. If they are to be 
put into boiling water, let it be freshly boiled for the pur- 
pose, and allow one teaspoonful of salt to a quart of water. 
They should be cooked until tender, and this can only be 
found out by watching and testing them with a fork, as no 
exact time can be given. For most vegetables, about half 
an hour is required, but as they grow older they require 
more cooking than when they are young and tender. They 
retain their color better if cooked quickly and uncovered. 

If tomatoes are to be eaten raw, they should be peeled 
like any other vegetable or fruit, and may be served whole, 
with salad dressing, or cut into slices and dressed with a 
little pepper, salt and vinegar. In either case they should 
be put into the ice chest for a time. If they are to be 
cooked, pour boiling water on them, and let them stand 
for a time before peeling them. They may be sliced and 
fried in a little hot butter, dredging them first with a little 
salt, pepper, and flour. They can also be broiled, baked, or 
stewed. Canned tomatoes should never be left in the tin- 
can after it has been opened. If there is more than will 
be used at once, pour it out into a bowl, before putting it 
away. In buying canned goods, great care should be taken 
to select the best, as the others are often unwholesome, and 
even dangerous. 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 1 9 

MOCK BISQUE. 

One quart of tomatoes ; three pints of milk ; two heap- 
ing tablespoon fuls of flour; two tablespoonfuls of butter; 
one full teaspoonful of salt ; one scant teaspoonful of pepper 
and one scant teaspoonful of soda. 

Put the tomato on the fire in a saucepan, and when it 
boils, add the soda and let it boil ten minutes, stirring oc- 
casionally. Then strain it into a bowl, through a sieve fine 
enough to keep back the seeds. In the meantime put the 
milk on in a double boiler,- and cream the butter in a bowl. 
Then mix the flour well with the butter, and afterwards stir 
slowly into it one cupful of the hot milk. When the rest 
of the milk boils, pour this mixture into it very slowly and 
stir till it thickens, which will be in about five minutes. 
Add the pepper and salt, and the strained tomato, and serve 
at once. 

SAUCES. 

The foundation of most sauces is w r hat is known as a 
roux, which is made by melting some butter in a saucepan, 
and stirring into it a little dry flour, until the mixture is 
perfectly smooth. 

Many different sauces can be made by adding to this a 
little hot water, hot milk, or stock, and other ingredients of 
various kinds. A cream sauce is made by pouring slow T ly 
on the roux hot cream or hot milk ; and this, and sauces 
made from white stock are called white sauces. When the 
butter and flour are allowed to brown, it is called a brown 
roux, and brown sauces are made from it by using brown 
stock, and various seasonings. 

BOILED RICE. 

Wash clean one cupful of rice and put it into a saucepan 



20 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

with one quart of water and a teaspoonful of salt, and boil 
it until quite tender ; then turn it into a colander to drain 
without stirring it at all. Let it stand in a warm place to 
dry for five or ten minutes befor serving. Every kernel of 
rice should be separate, dry, and look very white. 



NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 

Let the pupils pick over and wash the rice, and put it on to 
boil as soon as they come. After the dictation they can 
make the mock bisque ; and the roux and sauces are not 
made in this lesson. Explain to them also that this soup is 
called mock bisque, because it resembles lobster bisque in 
taste and color. It is very nice and can be quickly made 
if soup is wanted unexpectedly. 



Saucepans and kettles should never be filled entirely full, 
for the water would constantly boil over ; nor should they 
ever be left on the fire without any water at all in them, as 
they would soon be burnt through and ruined. A double 
boiler should be used for milk, custard, oatmeal, and any- 
thing which burns easily. When milk bubbles a little in a 
double boiler, it is boiling. When cooked in this way, it 
will never burn nor boil over. The water in the under 
boiler should be boiling when the upper one is put in, and 
should be filled up with boiling water, if it is used for a 
long time. 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 2 1 

Potatoes, rice, oatmeal, and many other things can be 
cooked very nicely in a steamer placed over a kettte of boil- 
ing water. A tea-kettle should be washed, and filled fresh 
every morning, or it will soon give an unpleasant taste to 
the tea or coffee. The water from a range boiler should 
never be used for cooking ; fresh water for this purpose 
should be kept in a clean kettle on the stove. 

CORN STARCH BLANC MANGE 

Measure out one pint of milk. Dissolve two tablespoon- 
fuls of corn starch in about half a cupful of it. Put the re- 
mainder of the milk on the fire in a double boiler, and add 
to it one stick of cinnamon, two tablespoon fuls of sugar, 
one-third of a saltspoonful of salt, and heat till nearly boil- 
ing Then add the mixed corn starch slowly, and let it boil 
four minutes, stirring all the time. Take out the cinnamon, 
and pour the cornstarch into a mould, or into small cups, 
which should first be wet with cold water. When cold and 
stiff, turn it onto a dish, and serve with sugar and milk ; or 
with custard, or any kind of jelly or preserved fruit put 
round it on the dish. This blanc mange can be made with 
eggs if preferred. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Fill a deep frying pan nearly full of hot water with a 
teaspoonful of salt in it, and let it boil gently. Break each 
egg into a saucer, and slide it slowly into the water, letting 
it cook by itself, and pouring a little of the water gently 
over it with a teaspoon. When done, lift it out with a 
skimmer, and place it on a slice of hot buttered toast, 
sprinkling it with a little pepper and salt, and trimming the 
edges nicely. The toast may be dry, or wet by dipping 



2 2 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

it quickly into hot water. One or two tablespoon fuls of 
vinegar are sometimes put into the water in which eggs are 
poached. 

YEAST. 

Wash and pare three small potatoes, and lay them in cold 
water. Put one tablespoonful of loose hops to steep, in a 
pint of boiling water. In about half an hour mix together 
in a large bowl one tablespoonful of flour, two teaspoonfuls 
of sugar, and one full teaspoon ful of salt. Grate the po- 
tato into this. Let the hops boil for a minute, and then 
strain them through a sieve onto the potato and flour, stirr- 
ing it constantly and quickly. If it does not thicken, put 
it back on the fire, and let it boil a few moments, still stirr- 
ing as before. When lukewarm, add half a cup of yeast, 
or half a cake of Fleischman's yeast dissolved in a little 
warm sweetened water. Let it rise until it is light, and 
keep it in a cool place, in a tightly corked jug. 



NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 

Let the pupils make the blanc mange as soon as they 
come ; mould it in small baking cups, and set it in a cold 
place. Then give the lesson, and poach some eggs; and 
by that time the blanc mange will be stiff enough to be 
turned out. Serve it with a little jelly. Show them also 
how to use a pitcher, or a tin pail, set into a pan with hot 
water in it, if they have no double boiler. It is better to 
raise the pail on two or three muffin rings if possible. 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 2$ 



Eggs should always be kept in a cool place ; and when 
they are used, do not forget to save some of the egg shells 
for clearing coffee. In breaking eggs, it is better to break 
each one singly over a cup, because one bad egg will oblige 
you to throw away all which have been previously broken. 
If an egg is fresh and good, the white will rise up clear and 
firm from the shell. In separating the whites from the 
yolks, if a little of the yolk should get in with the whites, 
it can be taken out with a piece of eggshell, as it will ad- 
here to the inside ; or it can be taken out with the corner 
of a clean towel twisted into a point and dampened. In 
beating eggs with an egg- whisk or fork, keep the upper 
arm quiet and close to the side, and beat with the wrist. A 
Dover egg-beater is very good for the yolks, or for whole 
eggs, but should never be used for the whites of eggs, as it 
breaks the fibres two much. A Dover egg-beater should be 
kept in gentle motion round the bowl, and should never be 
held steadily on the bottom. The handle should be washed 
as seldom as possible, and the little wheels should be oiled 
occasionally or they will wear out. In beating sugar and 
the whites of eggs together, it is better to add the sugar 
slowly, for as eggs vary in size it is not possible to give 
the exact quantity of sugar required. The usual proportion 
for a meringue is three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar to 
the whites of five eggs, and they should be beaten until 
very stiff. A pudding should be cooled a little before the 
meringue is put on, and should then be browned slightly in 



24 



MANUAL OF COOKERY, 



the oven. Cream puffs, ice-cream, and puddings which 
have eggs, milk, sugar, and lemon or other flavorings in 
them, should be eaten while fresh, as they become very un- 
wholesome, and dangerous if kept too long. The juice of 
fresh fruits is always far better than any extract, and none 
but the best extracts should be used, as the cheaper ones are 
not always reliable. 

BOILED CUSTARD. 

One quart of milk ; five tablespoonfuls of sugar ; two 
whole eggs, and the yolks of six more ; one teaspoonful of 
lemon or vanilla extract, or half a teaspoonful of almond 
extract. 

Boil the milk in a double boiler, and take it from the 
stove. Beat the eggs and sugar together and then pour the 
milk slowly into them, stirring constantly. Put the mix- 
ture back on the fire in the double boiler, and stir rapidly 
till it begins to thicken and coats the spoon, which will be 
in about five minutes. Take it quickly from the fire, and 
set it in a pan of cold water for a time, and when cool, add 
the flavoring extract. Custard will curdle if cooked too 
long. It should be served cold in glass cups. 

Very nice custard can be made by using from four to 
six whole eggs, or by using eight yolks without any whites. 
Many persons strain custard through a fine sieve, but it is 
not absolutely necessary. 

MERINGUE. 

Beat the whites of the six eggs with two or three table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar, until they are very stiff, and 
put a little on the top of each custard. 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 25 

BOILED MACARONI. 

Macaroni should never be soaked or washed. Break 
about a quarter of a pound into pieces from three to four 
inches long, and drop them slowly into a kettle full of well 
salted boiling water. When quite tender put them into a 
colander to drain. In the meantime boil one pint of milk 
with a small piece of butter, and thicken it with a teaspoon - 
ful of flour made into a paste with cold water. Put in the 
macaroni and let it simmer a short time before serving it. 
Allow an hour or more for the first boiling of the macaroni, 
as it should be thoroughly cooked. 

NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 

Make the whole quantity of custard, and let the pupils 
cook it before the lesson is given. The meringue can be 
made afterwards. Half of the quantity of macaroni can 
be cooked and should be put on early ; or it can be entirely 
omitted. Tell them that it is better to use whole eggs for 
custard, unless it is wanted for some special occasion. 



When we immerse and cook anything in very hot or as it 
is commonly called " boiling " fat, we fry it j and when we 
cook it in a spider or saucepan, with a little melted butter or 
lard, we sauter it. Cooking on a griddle or slightly greased 
pan is baking, and griddle cakes are therefore baked and 



id MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

not fried. A kettle should be filled about half or two-thirds? 
full of fat, and when it is very hot a blue smoke will rise 
from it. If a bit of bread dropped in will brown quickly, 
the fat is hot enough to cook with. The heat of the fat 
should be watched and regulated just as carefully as the heat of 
an oven is, as the lightest dough will be made heavy if the 
fat is not just right. It should be allowed to heat up oc- 
casionally, and there should never be more than three or 
four doughnuts or fish balls in the kettle at a time, for the 
fat will be chilled and make them heavy, and they will also 
" soak the fat," as it is called, and be greasy. If they are put 
in gently with a ladle, the flit will not spatter and burn the 
hand. A kettle of hot fat should always be placed care- 
fully where it cannot be upset ; and no cold water, nor any- 
thing which is wet with water, should ever be put into it 
as the fat will spatter dangerously. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Cream thoroughly one large tablespoon ful of butter, and 
work into it one heaping cup of fine brown sugar. Add to 
this three or four eggs and beat them all together with two 
teaspoonfuls of ground cinnamon, and one teaspoonful of 
nutmeg. Then add one cupful of sour milk with one tea- 
spoonful of soda in it (or enough to sweeten it.) Lastly 
sift in about two pints and a half of flour. Make a soft 
dough, and roll it on the bread-board about half an inch 
thick. Cut into cakes with a hole in the centre, and fry 
in a kettle of boiling lard. Take them out with a skimmer, 
and put them in a colander to drain. A little powdered 
sugar should be sifted over them. 

They can be made with one cup of sweet milk, and two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder sifted in with the flour. 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 27 

SARATOGA CHIPS. 

Pare and wash tWo or three potatoes, and cut out the black 
specks. Then slice them as thin as wafers with a sharp 
knife and lay them in very cold water over night. In the 
morning dry them thoroughly with a towel, and drop a 
few slices at a time into a kettle of boiling lard. Fry them 
to a light golden brown, and then take them out with a 
skimmer and lay them on brown paper in a pan. Sprinkle 
them with a little salt, and set them in the oven a minute to 
dry. They can be served either hot or cold. 



NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 

One large potato should be prepared and put in cold 
water by the class before the lesson is given. Make one- 
half the quantity given in the recipe for doughnuts, and fry 
them before the Saratoga chips are fried. The pupils might 
be told of the different kinds of fat which can be used for 
frying, and also how to clarify uncooked fat. 



ge&&on 10* 

Lard which has been used for frying should never be left 
in the kettle ; when it has cooled a little, dip it out with a 
small tin dipper, and strain it through a fine wire strainer 
into a tin pail kept for the purpose. If codfish balls or an> 
article which would give an unpleasant taste to the fat have 
been fried in it, put the fat when cold with three tablespoon- 



28 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

fuls of cold water in a kettle on the fire. When it gets hot 
it will bubble, and after the bubbling, ceases, and a blue 
smoke rises, put in a raw potato which has been peeled and 
sliced. When the potato is done it should be taken out, 
and the fat will be clarified. By treating it in this way, and 
adding fresh lard, the same fat can be used for a long time, 
but should occasionally be thrown away entirely. 

CODFISH BALLS. 

Boil in salted water eight or nine medium sized potatoes, 
and mash them lightly. Let them cool, and in the mean- 
time pick one pound of salt fish into fine strips, being care- 
ful to take out every bone. Pour on enough boiling water 
to cover the fish, and let it stand ten minutes. Then drain 
it through a colander, and squeeze it well in the hands ; put 
it in a wooden, tray and pound it with a potato masher until 
all the fibres are separated. Mix it thoroughly with one 
large quart of the mashed potato, and add one tablespoon- 
ful of butter, two eggs, half a teaspoon fill of pepper, and 
a little salt if required. Make it quite soft with milk, and 
shape with the hands into small round balls. Fry two or 
three at a time in a kettle of boiling lard. Take them out 
with a skimmer, and drain them on soft brown paper. 
One teaspoonful of onion juice, one teaspoon ful of lemon 
juice, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of celery salt can be 
added if desired. 

If the fish is very salt, boiling water should be poured on 
a second time, and the mixture of fish and potato should 
always be tasted and seasoned rightly before the balls are 
shaped. If the potatoes are cool, a larger quantity of milk 
can be used than when they are warm, and this will make 
the fish balls more delicate. 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 29 



NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 



One-half the quantity given in the recipe will make enough 
balls for a large class. They should be made as soft as pos- 
sible, and yet stiff enough to retain their shape after being 
moulded, and should be fried an even rich brown color. 



$e#&0n 11, 

A frying pan should always be well heated before the 
butter or lard is put into it. This should not be allowed to 
melt entirely, and should be put in a moment only before it 
is to be used, as it will turn brown if allowed to stand. A 
little lard or butter for greasing pans should be kept in a 
small dish, and used for nothing else. 

A soapstone griddle is considered the best, and it should 
never be greased. A new iron griddle can be cleaned with 
sapolio, and if it is rough, put it on the stove and rub it 
well with some dry salt. A griddle should be well heated 
before it is greased, and should be greased again between 
each set of cakes with a piece of clean brown paper or a 
white rag, using no more lard or butter than for baking pans. 
If there is too much grease, the cakes will be heavy round 
the edge. Some persons prefer to use butter for everything, 
and the pans for bread or cake should always be buttered ; 
but for griddle cakes, and for cooking over cold potatoes 
or cold mush, lard is generally preferred, as they will be 
dryer, and of a better color when cooked with it, and are 
also less apt to burn. Care should be taken also to scrape 



30 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

off at once any little pieces that may happen to fall on a 
pan or griddle, for they will burn and smoke whatever is 
being cooked. The bowl with the batter in it should be 
held close to the griddle, and just enough of the batter to 
make one cake should be taken up in the spoon, having first 
stirred it well from the bottom each time, and scraped in 
what has collected on the side of the bowl. Clean the 
bottom of the spoon on the edge of the bowl, and pour the 
batter from the point of it. Griddle cakes should be small, 
round, and of uniform size, and should always be served 
very hot. 

CORNMEAL SLAPPERS. 

Mix together one pint of cornmeal, one teaspoonful of 
butter, one teaspoonful of sugar, and one teaspoonful of 
salt. Pour onto the mixture enough boiling water to wet 
the meal. Let it cool, and add two well beaten eggs, and 
cold milk enough to make a thin batter. Bake in small 
thin cakes on a griddle. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Break six eggs into a bowl, and beat them a minute or 
two. Then stir into them about two-thirds of a cupful of 
milk, with a scant teaspoonful of salt, and half a teaspoon- 
ful of pepper. Partially melt a tablespoon ful of butter in 
a well heated frying pan, and pour in the mixture slowly, 
stirring it lightly with a fork until it has thickened. Then 
turn it at once into a hot dish. When done, it should have 
the consistency of a baked custard. 



NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 

The whole quantity given in the recipe for cornmeal 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 3 I 

slappers should be made, so that each pupil in turn may 
bake a few cakes. Show them also how to mix batter 
quickly and neatly, without letting it collect on the side of 
the bowl. The recipe for scrambled eggs can be halved, 
and a smaller frying pan should be used than when the 
whole quantity is taken. 



One quart of flour is one pound. 
One pint of granulated sugar is one pound. 
Two cups of packed butter are one pound. 
Ten eggs are one pound. 

Two cups and a half of powdered sugar are one pound. 
Four cups of flour are one pound. 
Three cups of meal are one pound. 

One heaping tablespoonful of granulated sugar is one 
ounce. 

Two full tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar are one ounce. 

One full tablespoonful of butter is one ounce. 

Two full tablespoonfuls of flour are one ounce. 

Two full tablespoonfuls of coffee are one ounce. 

One pint of chopped meat closely packed is one pound. 

LIQUID MEASURE. 

Four saltspoonfuls make one teaspoonful. 
Four teaspoon fuls make one tablespoonful. 
Two tablespoonfuls make one ounce. 



$2 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

Four tablespoonfuls make one wineglassful, or half a gill. 
Eight tablespoonfuls or four ounces make a gill. 
Four gills make a pint. 
Two pints make a quart. 

BREAD FRITTERS— No. i. 

Take a stale loaf of baker's bread and cut it into half- 
inch slices. Beat up three eggs, and stir into them a pint 
of milk and a saltspoonful of salt. Dip the slices into the 
milk and egg and lay them into a deep dish ; pour over them 
the rest of the milk and egg, and let them soak till tender. 
Then sauter them in a little butter, turning them over so that 
each side may be of a light brown color. Serve hot at break- 
fast with syrup, or sugar and butter. 

BREAD FRITTERS— No. 2. 

Cut a stale loaf of baker's bread into half-inch slices 
and trim off the hard crusts evenly. Beat up three eggs, 
and stir into them one pint of milk, a saltspoonful of salt, 
and a tablespoonful of flour made into a paste with a little 
cold water. Dip each slice of bread into a little milk to 
moisten it, and then dip it into the batter, and either sauter 
them in butter (browning on both sides), or fry them in 
boiling lard. Serve hot as a dessert with a hot sweet sauce, 

PLAIN OMELET. 

Beat the yolks of four eggs with a Dover egg beater (or 
any good one) and add two tablespoonfuls of milk and 
one teaspoonful of salt. Beat the whites very light with an 
egg whisk, and cut the yolks thoroughly into them. Have 
an omelet pan very hot, and put in a tablespoonful of but- 
ter, then pour in the beaten egg. Shake the pan vigorously 
on the hottest part of the stove until the egg begins to 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 33 

thicken, and then let it stand a minute or two to brown. 
Run a knife between the two sides of the omelet and the 
pan ; fold over on itself, and turn into a dish. Serve at 

once. 

The eggs can be beaten whole, if preferred, without sep- 
arating the yolks and whites. A little chopped parsely, or 
chopped ham, or chopped tomato can be used in an omelet. 



NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 

Let the pupils make one kind of fritters and an omelet ; 
and show them how to separate nicely the yolks and whites 
of the eggs. Explain to them also what is meant by a 
" cutting " motion, and show them how it differs from mix- 
ing by stirring. 



Qz%%&\x 13* 

Oysters should be entirely fresh, as they become unwhole- 
some if kept too long. The largest oysters should be 
selected for frying, for pickling, for broiling, and for serving 
raw. Raw oysters are improved by being laid on ice for a 
time. They should be sprinkled with salt and pepper, and 
may be served in a dish or in small single plates, with slices 
of lemon. Many persons prefer to eat them with vine- 
gar ; and cayenne peppei is often used instead of black 
pepper. 

In preparing oysters for cooking, take them out singly 
with the fingers, feeling carefully for every little piece of shell. 



34 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

Put them in a bowl, and then strain the liquor and keep it 
separate. Oysters should be simmered and never boiled 
hard or cooked long as it will make them tough and small. 
Oyster liquor should be skimmed when it begins to boil. 

In frying oysters, croquettes or anything delicate, a wire 
basket should be used. A layer of oysters should be placed 
in the bottom of it, and it should be hung or held in the 
fat until they are cooked. Then lift it out, remove the 
oysters, and put in a fresh layer. If any crumbs in which 
oysters or croquettes have been rolled are left over, they 
should be thrown away. Oysters sauted in a little hot but- 
ter without crumbs or egg are very nice. 

Invalids should never be allowed to eat the hard part of an 
oyster ; and raw oysters are generally more wholesome for 
them than those which have been cooked, as they are more 
easily digested. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Drain one quart of oysters thoroughly through a coJander, 
and then take each one out singly and lay it on a clean towel 
to dry. Beat one egg with half a teaspoonful of salt and a 
saltspoonful of pepper. Dip the oysters first in cracker 
crumbs, or bread crumbs, then in the egg, and then in the 
crumbs again. Drop them gently into the boiling lard with 
a skimmer, and fry to a light brown ; then take them out 
with a skimmer, lay them on brown paper for a moment, 
and serve on a hot dish. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Put one cup of milk or cream on the fire to boil in a 
double boiler. Put one quart of oysters in a saucepan with 
their own strained liquor, and one cup of cold water. The 
moment they begin to simmer, pour them through a colan- 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 35 

der into a hot bowl. Melt a tablespoonful of butter in the 
same saucepan and stir into it with an egg-whisk one table- 
spoonful of sifted flour. Let this cook one or two minutes, 
and add the oyster liquor gradually, stirring rapidly as you 
pour it in. Then add slowly the hot milk, with a few grains 
of cayenne pepper, a little ground mace and a little salt. 
Let this all boil up together, then add the oysters, and serve 
at once. 



NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 

The pupils can make the soup and fry the oysters, using 
either the whole quantity given, or half of it. One pint of 
oysters will be enough for a small class to fry. 



Qzz&on 14* 

When buying fresh meat, select that which has a clear 
white fat, and firm healthy look. Meat is made more ten. 
der by being kept for a time, and mutton is especially 
improved by it. Fresh meat should never be soaked at all ; 
it can either be washed in cold water, or wiped off with a 
damp cloth. 

The best beef is of a clear, red color, and is slightly marbled 
with white fat. The sirloin and the sixth, seventh and 
eighth ribs are the best roasting pieces ; the ribs can be 
removed and used for stock, and the meat can be rolled and 
skewered, trimming off all the rough bits. The tenderloin 
cut is the nicest, but is much more expensive than the others. 



36 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

Mutton also should be of a clear, red color, with white, 
firm fat ; a leg or a shoulder of mutton may be either roasted 
or boiled. Veal should have white fat, and the flesh should 
be slightly pink in color. The fillet, breast, and loin are 
the best pieces for roasting, and the neck and ribs for stew- 
ing Pork should have fine, white fat, and the meat should 
be white and smooth. The spare-rib is considered the most 
delicate piece for roasting, but the leg, loin, and shoulder 
are very good. Pork and veal are very nice when cold; 
they should never be eaten at all in hot weather. 

The oven should be very hot when meat is first put in, 
but may be slackened afterwards. For rare meat, allow ten 
to twelve minutes to the pound ; and allow fifteen to twenty 
minutes to a pound if the meat is to be well done. Veal, 
pork and lamb should be thoroughly cooked ; while beef 
and mutton should be left quite rare. 

ROAST BEEF. 

Sprinkle the beef with a little pepper and salt, and dredge 
it with flour ; put a little water in the baking pan, and place 
the meat in it on a small rack which fits into the pan, and 
will keep the meat out of the water. Put it into the oven, 
and then melt a tablespoonful of butter in a cupful of boilng 
water. When the flour has browned, baste the meat with 
this, and continue to do it every fifteen or twenty minutes. 
Sprinkle it once more with pepper and salt, and dredge it 
with flour at least twice. When the meat is done, serve it 
on a hot platter. 

GRAVY. 

Take all the fat from the drippings, and scrape into the 
water whatever may have browned onto the sides and bot- 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 37 

torn of the pan ; then pour it into a saucepan, or else set 
the baking pan on the top of the stove, and let the gravy 
cook gently. If it is not thick enough, mix a teaspoonful 
of flour into a smooth paste with a little cold water and add 
it, and then let it all come to a boil, stirring gently. If 
the gravy is too light colored, thicken it with burnt flour, or 
add a little caramel. It is sometimes strained through a 
sieve, but if it is well mixed and smooth this is not neces- 
sary. A little boiling water can be added to the water in 
the pan, if needed. 

COLD BEEF AND CABBAGE. 

Chop one head of tender cabbage without the stalks, and 
put it in a saucepan with two tablespoonfuls of butter, one 
saltspoonful of salt, and half a saltspoonful of pepper, and 
stir it occasionally until it is quite tender. In the mean- 
time cut some cold meat into neat slices; put them in a 
frying pan with a tablespoon ful of butter and brown them. 
Lay them in the centre of a hot dish, with the cabbage 
around them. 



NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 

A piece of solid beef weighing not much over a pound 
can ofter be obtained at the butcher's, and used for a lesson 
in roasting. It should be prepared and put in the oven 
before the lesson is given. In every school-room there 
should be charts showing the different parts of the animal, 
and how they should look when dressed, and ready to serve ; 
these should be shown and explained to the pupils while they 
are waiting for the meat to be done, and then they can make 
the gravy. They should be told also that the most whole- 
some gravies are made from stock either prepared beforehand, 



38 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

or made for the purpose, by boiling some meat and bone 
in water with a little salt in it for several hours, and strain- 
ins: it before it is thickened and seasoned. 



ge&&on 15* 

The porter-house and sirloin beefsteaks are the best, and 
they should always be broiled. Steaks from the round can 
be either stewed, sauted, or rolled up with stuffing and 
baked. The third and fourth cuts of the round are the best 
for steaks. 

Mutton and veal chops and pork chops can be broiled, 
fried, or sauted. Veal cutlets can be broiled, sauted, or 
rolled up with stuffing and baked. 

If meat has been washed, it should be well dried with a 
towel before it is fried or broiled, or it will not brown 
handsomely. Tender meat should never be pounded ; but 
if it is tough, it can be made tender by pounding it lightly 
with the back of a meat knife, or with the edge of a plate ; 
or by drawing a knife across it in several cross lines on each 
side, so as to gash it without cutting through. Two bricks 
can be placed on the top of the stove, and the broiler may 
be rested on them, if it is necessary to leave it for a minute 
or two while broiling. The fire should be hot and clear for 
broiling ; but the time required depends on the size and 
thickness of the steak. From eight to ten minutes will be 
sufficient for a rare steak ; and from ten to fifteen if it is to 
be well done. The inside of a steak should be rare but not 
raw. 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 39 



BROILED BEEFSTEAK. 



A beefsteak should be at least half an inch thick, and . 
many persons prefer one which is three-quarters of an inch 
thick. If there is much fat, trim it off a little, or it will 
drop on the coals and smoke. Grease the broiler with a 
little of the fat from the steak, and then place the meat in 
the centre of it ; hold each side over the coals long enough 
to sear it over, and then cook it until it is properly done, 
turning it constantly. Have ready a hot platter ; before 
taking the steak from the broiler, sprinkle one side with salt 
and pepper ; lay it with that side down on the platter and 
salt and pepper the other side. Put some pieces of butter 
on this upper side, and serve without turning it, and before 
the butter is entirely melted. 

HASH. . 

Take cold roast beef, or cold corn beef; remove carefully 
all the bone, gristle, and skin, and take three parts of lean 
meat to one of fat meat. Add one-third as much of cold 
potato as there is of meat, a little onion, pepper, and salt, 
and chop them all together in a wooden tray until they are 
very fine and well mixed. Then moisten it with cold gravy, 
or with water and a little piece of butter. Have ready a 
hot frying pan, in which a tablespoonful of butter has been 
melted, and spread the meat smoothly over the bottom of 
•it. Let it simmer till a brown crust has formed on the 
under side without stirring it at all, and then fold it like an 
omelet, and serve on a hot platter. The hash can be served 
without folding by turning it whole onto the platter with 
the brown side up. 



40 MANUAL OF COOKERY 



NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 

If the pupils broil a steak before the lesson is given, it 
will be cold enough to be made into hash before they leave. 
Show them how to broil a steak without putting a fork into 
it, and tell them that if they prefer to have more gravy, 
they must put some butter in the bottom of the dish, and 
turn the hot steak over in it once or twice. 



It is very important to know how to prepare nice dishes 
from inexpensive materials, and also from those which have 
been already cooked. Every clean bone should be put into 
the stock pot, and all pieces of fat should be nicely tried 
out and strained, and kept in a jar, to be exchanged for 
soap, or made into soft soap. Cold meats and vegetables, 
cold gravies, bread and cake that are a little dry, and cold 
oatmeal or cornmeal mush can be used in a variety of ways. 
Many a little clean piece is thrown away which, if properly 
used, would make some dish richer and more savory ; and 
a little thought and good management in this way will 
accomplish and save more than would be supposed. In 
planning a dinner or any meal, it is a good plan always to 
consider in what way, the food already in the house, can 
best be worked in. There is a very 1 mistaken impression 
that economy is meanness, whereas they are very different. 
To economise is to make the best possible use of what yoti 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 41 

have, and to make it go as far as possible for your own and 
other peoples' advantage. A mean person is one who does 
not or will not use what she has, or get what she needs, 
when she can afford it and there is no reason why she should 
not. To deny one's self, and go without things when it is 
necessary, is very different, and should never be ridiculed 
as it too often is. Economy and self-denial are praiseworthy, 
and lead to success in every way ; and no one need ever be 
ashamed of practicing them. 

HOW TO WARM COLD MEAT. 

Cut the cold meat off in neat slices, and set it away ; 
then put the bone on in cold water enough to cover it well, 
and add a sliced onion. Let it cook gently for two hours ; 
and about half an hour before dinner strain it and put the 
liquid back on the stove, adding some cold gravy if you have 
it, a little salt and pepper, and sifted dried herb, or any sea- 
soning that is preferred ; thicken it with a little flour mixed 
with cold water, and let it just boil for a minute or so, stir- 
ring constantly. Then put in the slices of cold meat and 
let it simmer until the meat is thoroughly warmed through. 
If there is no cold gravy, a piece of butter should be added 
in its place. xA tablespoonful of ketchup is very nice in the 
gravy with cold beef, and a tablespoonful of currant jelly 
with cold mutton. 

MUTTON PIE. 

Cut some cold roast mutton into neat slices ; lay them in 
a buttered baking dish or nappy ; add the cold gravy and 
a tablespoonful of currant jelly, and dredge in a little flour ; 
cover it with paste, or with a crust of cold rice or mashed 
potato. If there is not enough gravy, add a little water. 



42 MANUAL OF COOK£k\ . 

pepper, salt and a piece of butter. Bake three-quarters of 
an hour. 

STEWED BEEFSTEAK WITH CARROTS. 

Take one and a half pounds of beefsteak from the round, 
cut them into pieces three or four inches square, and sauter 
them in a large frying pan with some butter and an onion 
chopped very fine. Turn the slices of meat occasionally, 
and when they are well browned on each side, fill the pan 
with hot water enough to cover the meat well. Add one 
teaspoonful of salt^ half a teaspoonful of pepper, and an 
even teaspoonful of ground cloves. Scrape and slice a bunch 
of small carrots and add them. Cover the pan, and let it all 
cook gently at the side of the stove until tender, which will 
require two or three hours. The gravy can be thickened 
with a scant tablespoon ful of flour mixed first with a little 
cold water, if desired. 



NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 

Buy some slices of cold roast meat at a restaurant and let 
the pupils cook them according to the first recipe. They 
can try the others at their own homes. Let them also make 
some baking powder biscuit by the recipe given in the first 
lesson. 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 43 



$e&&cin 18* 

Potatoes of both kinds are very nice when baked ; they 
should be well washed, put into a hot oven, and baked 
about an hour. Sweet potatoes should be boiled with their 
skin on for about three-quarters of an hour. Cold potatoes 
can be sliced and fried for breakfast, and cold mashed potato 
can be made into cakes about three-quarters of an inch 
thick, which may be baked or fried. Cold potatoes may 
also be cut into dice and warmed in thickened milk with a 
little piece of butter and some chopped parsley in it. 

Green peas should be nicely picked over, and not washed. 
Put them into salted boiling water, and cook gently about 
thirty minutes. Drain them through a colander, and add a 
little butter and salt after they are in the dish. 

String beans should be washed, and cut into small pieces, 
after carefully stringing them and cutting off the ends. Put 
them into salted boiling water, and cook about an hour ; 
drain through a colander, and dress with butter and salt. 

After removing the tough skin from the white part of 
asparagus, tie it in bunches, and stand them on end in 
salted boiling water which should cover the white part well. 
Cook about twenty minutes, and serve it on some thin slices 
of buttered toast which have been dipped in the water in 
which the asparagus was boiled. Sprinkle a little salt over 
it and add a few small pieces of butter. 

Summer squashes or cymlings should be cut up without 
being peeled, but the seeds should be taken out unless they 



44 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

are very young. Steam till tender, and then mash through 
a colander, and add a little pepper, salt, sugar and a small 
piece of butter. 

Winter squashes should be cut into pieces, removing all 
the seeds and fibres. Then pare the pieces and cook them 
in a steamer for about two hours. When tender, mash fine, 
and add a heaping tablespoon ful of butter, a teaspoonful of 
salt, a teaspoonful of sugar, and half a teaspoonful of pepper. 
If there is any cold squash left, it can be mixed with batter 
the next day, and fried in cakes or fritters. 

Turnips should be washed and pared. They may be cut 
into quarters and cooked for about an hour in salted boiling- 
water; drain them and let them stand a few minutes ; then 
mash them, adding a little salt, pepper, sugar, and a small 
piece of butter. They may also be cooked and served whole 
with a white sauce, or with a little butter and pepper. They 
should be served very hot. 

Cabbage should be very carefully washed and laid in cold 
water for an hour or more ; then cut it into quarters and 
cook it in well-salted boiling water until tender. Take it 
up and drain it, and serve it without cutting it up any more, 
and with a little pepper, salt and butter. Cabbage is gen- 
erally boiled with a piece of corned beef, and in that case, 
dress it with a little pepper when served, as the butter and 
salt are not needed. 

Parsnips and salsify (oyster plant) should be washed and 
scraped, and boiled in salted water until tender. They may 
be cut into slices and served with a white sauce poured over 
them, or they may be cut lengthwise, and after they are 
cool, the slices can be fried in a little butter, or rolled in 
egg and crumbs and fried. 

Carrots should be washed, scraped, and boiled in salted 
water until tender ; then cut them into slices and serve with 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 45 

white sauce over them, or with a little pepper and butter. 
Beets should be well washed, but never peeled or even 
pricked, for they will lose their color. They should be put 
into salted boiling water, and cooked from two to four hours, 
according" to their age When they are boiled, lay them 
into cold water for two or three minutes, and then rub off 
the skin. They may be served whole or cut into slices; 
dress them with a little salt, pepper, and butter. If any are 
left over, they can be sliced and laid in vinegar and used 
the next day. Winter beets should be soaked over night if 
they are tough. 

PARSNIP FRITTERS. 

Boil three large parsnips in salted water for an hour and 
a half (or longer if they are not tender) ; and mash them 
fine, with half a tablespoon ful of butter. Beat two eggs 
well, and add a third of a cup of milk, half a teaspoonful 
of salt, one saltspoonful of pepper, and two even table- 
spoonfuls of flour, mixing them until smooth ; then stir 
thoroughly into the parsnips, and drop by the spoonful into 
a little hot butter in a frying pan; browning each fritter 
well on both sides. 

Egg plant and oyster plant fritters are made in the same 
way. 

FRITTER BATTER. 

Beat two eggs in a bowl and add one tablespoonful of 
butter (melted), one saltspoonful of salt, half a pint of milk, 
and about four tablespoonfuls of flour, or enough to make a 
drop batter. Beat this with an egg- whisk, until very light 
and smooth, and use at once. This batter may be used 
with any kind of fruit, or with oysters and clams either 
whole or chopped. 



46 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Peel and core several good sized sour apples, and cut 
them into slices ; dip each slice into batter, and fry a golden 
brown in hot fat. The apples can be cut into very small 
pieces and mixed in with the batter, if preferred. 



NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 

If oyster plants are used instead of parsnips, and are put 
on to boil as soon as the pupils come, both kinds of fritters 
can be made. Two bunches of oyster plants and two or 
three apples will be required. Explain to the class that a 
drop batter is one which is stiff enough to hold on the sur- 
face the drops falling onto it from the mixing spoon. 
Butter and nicely prepared beef suet are always more 
wholesome than lard for every purpose, but so many persons 
use lard that it is given in some of the recipes ; it should 
always be of the best quality. 



g£#*<m 19* 

Uncooked vegetables which are to be used for salads 
should be most carefully washed and freshened in cold water. 
They should be pulled apart with the hand and not cut 
with a knife, unless it is so directed. 

Lettuce, water-cresses, celery, raw cabbage, cold boiled 
string beans, and the green tops of cold asparagus are among 
those most commonly used for salads. 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 47 

The cold asparagus tops should be cut into pieces about 
an inch long and mixed with lettuce leaves. Then sprinkle 
them with a little powdered sugar, and serve with boiled 
salad dressing. An underdone cauliflower broken into 
branches, and mixed with lettuce leaves, is also very nice for 
a salad. Hard-boiled eggs sliced or cut into small pieces, 
slices of cold red beets, silver onions, red radishes, and 
several other vegetables can be used very prettily in various 
ways for a garnish. 

Onions can be sliced with tomatoes or with cucumbers, 
and dressed with a little pepper, salt, and vinegar. Onion 
juice is often used as a flavoring, and is obtained by cutting 
an onion, and pressing the cut side, with a screwing motion, 
against a grater which should be placed on a saucer so that 
the juice may run into it. 

Cucumbers should be laid in salted water for an hour ; 
then peel and slice them, and put them on ice. They are 
generally dressed with a little pepper, salt and vinegar. 

When used as a garnish, parsley is broken into small 
sprigs ; but when used in cooking, the leaves should be 
stripped from the stems, and chopped very fine with a knife. 
Dried herbs should always be rubbed through a fine sieve. 

Celery should be laid in very cold water or on ice, as this 
makes it crisp. When used in salads, it is cut into small 
dice. 

For meat salads, cold chicken, cold veal or ham are used. 
The meat should always be entirely cold and firm, and it is 
better to cook it the day before. 

The best olive oil should be used for salad dressing, and 
most dressings should be mixed quickly with a wooden 
spoon or a silver fork. Boiled salad dressing, and May- 
onnaise dressing can be kept for some days in tightly corked 
bottles, if they are in a cool place. 



48 MANUAL OF COOKERY- 

BOILED SALAD DRESSING. 
Put one tablespoonful of sugar, one even tablespoonful of 
salt, and one teaspoonful of raw mustard in a bowl. Add 
one tablespoonful of olive oil or melted butter, and mix 
them together until perfectly smooth. Add three eggs, or 
four yolks of eggs, and beat well. Then slowly add about 
two-thirds of a cup of vinegar, and lastly one cupful of 
milk which has been boiled and cooled somewhat. Pour 
the mixture into the double boiler, and cook till it thickens, 
which will be in about five minutes. Stir it while on the 
fire, and as soon as it begins to thicken take it quickly off, 
or it will curdle. Set the saucepan into a pan of cold water 
for a few minutes. 

SALAD DRESSING. 
Mix together in a deep plate or bowl one saltspoonful of 
salt, one saltspoonful of dry mustard, and one saltspoonful 
of pepper, and stir slowly into them with a wooden spoon 
two tablespoon fuls of olive oil, and lastly one tablespoonful 
of vinegar. This dressing can be used with lettuce. 

POTATO SALAD. 
Cut up four or five cold potatoes into small dice, and put 
them loosely in layers on a dish, sprinkling each layer with 
a little finely chopped parsley, and pouring a little boiled 
salad dressing over each with a spoon. Garnish with some 
sprigs of parsley and slices of potato, which should be laid 
round the edge of the dish. A small onion can be chopped 
and mixed with the potato. 

NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 

The pupils will have time to make both the boiled salad 
dressing and the potato salad, if the potatoes are prepared 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 49 

beforehand and ready for them. All the materials and all 
the cooking utensils which will be required for a lesson 
should always be neatly arranged by the teacher, on the 
table before the pupils come. Flour, sugar, salt and many 
other things can be kept on hand, and the others can easily 
be ordered the day before. Time is of great value in a 
school of cookery, and they will form the habit of prepar- 
ing everything themselves at home quite as quickly from 
seeing it regularly done, as they would, if obliged to do it. 



50 MANUAL OF COOKERS, 

CAKES AND DESSERTS, 
Q2&&on 20* 

Cake should be made of the best materials, and should 
be mixed in an earthenware bowl, and with a wooden spoon. 
A split spoon is good for sponge cake, and a painter's large 
palette knife is excellent for mixing cake which requires a 
"cutting in" motion. A small palette knife is better for icing 
cake than a common knife is. Have all the material ready 
on the table, then make the cake quickly, mix it lightly 
and bake it at once in a moderate, steady oven. The pans 
should be nicely buttered, and for molasses gingerbread 
and some kinds of cake it is better to line the pan with 
buttered paper. A piece of white paper can be laid over 
the top of the cake if it bakes too quickly. If a straw run 
into the centre of a cake comes out clean, it shows that 
the cake is done. Most kinds of cake should be taken 
from the pan at once, and cooled slowly on a sieve turned 
upside down ; but angel cake and a few others are cooled 
in the pan. If the pans are not papered, the edge and sides 
of the cake can be loosened carefully with a knife. Stirring 
butter until it is light and creamy is called " creaming " it. 
If it is very cold, warm the bowl just enough to soften the 
butter without melting it. In creaming butter and sugar 
together, always cream the butter first, and then work in 
the sugar. 

DOVER CAKE. 

One pound of unsifted flour, one pound of sugar, half -a 
pound of butter, six eggs, half a pint of milk, one tea- 
spoonful of baking powder, and one nutmeg. 



MANUAL OF COOKERY 



51 



Cream the butter and stir the sugar well into it. Beat 
the eggs, and add them with the grated nutmeg, and 
also the milk, stirring constantly as each is added. Lastly 
sift in the flour with the baking powder in it. If it seems 
too stiff, add a little more milk. Bake in a pan with a tube 
in the centre, or in cups. It will require from thirty-five 
to forty minutes. 

Half a pound of citron cut into very small pieces will 
improve it. 

BERWICK SPONGE CAKE. 

Beat six eggs two minutes; add three cupfuls of granu- 
lated sugar and beat five minutes ; sift in two cupfuls of flour 
with two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar in it, and beat two 
minutes; add a cupful of water with one teaspoonful of 
soda dissolved in it, and beat one minute ; add the grated 
peel and half the juice of a lemon, and sift in two more 
cupfuls of flour with quarter of a teaspoonful of salt in it. 
Beat all of these together for another minute, and bake in 
a deep pan with a tube in the centre, or bake it in a sheet 
from two to three inches thick, and cut in square pieces. 
Observe carefully the times of beating. 

PLAIN ICING. 
Allow one scant cupful of powdered sugar to the white 
of an tgg, but the quantity of sugar should be varied ac- 
cording to the size of the egg. They should be beaten to 
a stiff paste and spread smoothly over the cake with a small 
palette knife. A little lemon or orange juice, or a few drops 
of some extract may be added. Lemon and vanilla can be 
used together, putting one in the icing and the other in the 
cake ; but almond should never be used in the same cake 
with lemon or vanilla. Icing will harden better in a cool 
place. 



52 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 

The Dover cake and the icing are to be made in this 
lesson. If the cake is baked in small earthenware baking 
cups, each pupil will have an opportunity to practice icing. 
The Berwick cake can be made in some future lesson, or 
used by the girls in their own homes. It would be well to 
tell them that angel cakes and a few others are baked in un- 
buffered pans, and then show them how to beat the whites 
of the eggs a little before beginning to add the sugar. 



ge&&on 31* 



It is impossible to give recipes which can always be fol- 
lowed exactly in cooking. Flour is affected by a damp at- 
mosphere and varies in weight; different kinds of flour 
vary also in the amount of water they can absorb ; eggs 
vary in size, and seasonings and flavorings vary in strength ; 
and therefore judgment and experience must always be more 
or less followed. The dough must be made of the right 
consistency by the addition of a little more flour or liquid 
than the recipe may call for; and the soups and sauces 
should be carefully seasoned, and tested by tasting. 

When the oven is to be used, the fire should be cleared, 
and fresh coal should be put on just as long beforehand as 
will allow time for the fire to come up and bring the oven 
to the right heat for baking. Put on coal enough at first to 
last through the whole time that the oven will be in use; 
but if it is absolutely necessary to add any, put on a few. 



MAN-UAL OF COOKERY 



53 



.pieces at a time so as not to chill the fire and the oven. If 
properly managed, a fire and oven will give no trouble, but 
no oven will bake well directly after fresh coal has been put 
on. When the baking is finished, clear the fire again ; put 
on coal, and close the drafts so as to keep the fire low, un- 
til more heat is required. After the fire is kindled in the 
morning, wood should never be used on a stove or range 
which is intended for coal. If pieces of wood are put on 
top of coal, they will deaden the fire, and the heat is only 
temporary and does much more harm than good. 

GOLD CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of flour, one cupful of sugar, half a cupful 
of butter, the yolks of six eggs, one teaspoonful of baking 
powder, one teaspoonful of orange extract, or a little grated 
nutmeg. 

Cream the butter and sugar, and stir in the beaten yolks, 
and then the flour sifted a second time with the baking 
powder in it, beating them all well together. Lastly add 
the orange extract, and bake in a round pan with a tube 
in the centre, or in a square baking pan. If the gold and 
silver cakes are to be used together it is better to bake them 
in pans of the same shape. 

SILVER CAKE. 

Half a cqpful of butter ; one cupful of powdered sugar ; 
the whites of six eggs ; half a cupful of milk ; one teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder; two cupfuls of sifted flour, and one 
teaspoonful of almond extract. 

Cream the butter and sugar together, sift the flour again 
with the baking powder in it, and add the milk and the 
flour alternately in small quantities to the butter and sugar ;■ 
add the beaten whites, stirring rapidly ail the time, and 



54 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

astly add the flavoring. Bake about half an hour in a 
square baking pan so that the cake can be cut into square 
pieces, or in a long narrow loaf. It should be iced before 
it is cold. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Half a cupful of butter packed tightly ; half a cupful of 
brown sugar; half a pint of molasses (either New Orleans 
or Porto Rico) ; one teaspoon ful of ginger, half a teaspoon- 
ful of cinnamon ; half a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a 
teaspoonful of boiling water, and one scant quart of un- 
sifted flour. 

Cream the butter in a bowl with a wooden spoon ; add 
the sugar, then the molasses, cinnamon and ginger, and the 
soda in the teaspoonful of boiling water. Sift the flour in 
gradually, and when it becomes stiff, work the balance in 
with the hand. Turn onto a well floured bread board ; 
roll very thin, and cut into round cakes with a cutter. 
Bake a dark brown in a quick oven. 



NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 

Let the pupils make the gold and silver cakes, and show 
them how to mix and bake them nicely and carefully. 
The ginger snaps are not to be made in this lesson. The 
batter for the silver cake should be rather stiff, and the 
whites of the eggs should not be beaten too long as it is apt 
to cause a little dryness in the consistency of the cake. 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 55 



g,e&&on 22* 

In every pantry there should be a tin box for cake, one 
for bread, and a covered jar for the clean pieces of bread. 
Cake and bread should never be put into a box or shut up 
until they are entirely cool ; and they should always be 
cooled slowly, for if placed suddenly in a very cold place, 
or in the strong draft of a door or window, they will be apt 
to fall a little and be heavy. Pieces of bread can be used 
for puddings, griddle cakes, and stuffing for meat ; and 
they can also be dried without browning them, in a cool 
oven, and then crushed and sifted and used for frying oysters, 
chops and croquettes. These bread crumbs should be 
kept in a tightly covered glass jar, and it is well to have 
some always on hand. Never put back into the jar, how- 
ever, any that have been moistened at all, for they will be- 
come musty. 

Tin moulds for puddings and other desserts should be 
kept very clean and bright, or they will blacken whatever 
is cooked or moulded in them. Pudding cloths should be 
wrung out in hot water and floured ; they should be left 
loose so as to allow room for the pudding to swell, but the 
string should be tied around tightly or the water may get 
in. A pudding should be put into boiling water enough to 
cover it well, and should not stop boiling even for a moment, 
as it will make it heavy. Puddings should be cooked as 
soon as they are mixed (unless otherwise directed), for it 
hurts them to stand, especially if there is dried fruit in them, 
Blanc Mange, jellies and ice cream can be taken out easily 
from the mould, if a cloth wet in hot water is wrapped 



56 MANUAL OF COOKERY/ 

round it, or the mould can be dipped quickly into hot 
water. 

Dried currants should be carefully picked over and washed/ 
and then dried. Raisins should always be seeded, even if 
they are to be used whole. Dried fruits should be dredged 
with flour, when used in cakes or puddings, and should al- 
ways be the last thing added. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

Break some stale bread into very small pieces, and put a 
large half pint of them to soak in a quart of milk for half 
an hour or longer. Then break three eggs in a bowl and 
beat them for a minute or two, add three heaping table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, and stir into them the bread and milk/ 
Butter a pudding dish and pour in the pudding. Divide a 
tablespoonful of butter into litte bits and put them over the 
top, and also grate a quarter of a nutmeg over it. Bake in 
a quick oven from twenty to twenty-five minutes and serve 
either hot or cold. 

A richer pudding can be made by using five eggs, and 
adding half a cupful of dried currants or seeded raisins. It 
can be varied also by putting a layer of fruit jelly over 
the top. of the pudding after it is baked and has cooled 
somewhat, and covering this with a meringue, made with 
the whites of three of the eggs, and two even tablespoonfuls 
of powdered sugar. Then put it in the oven a moment to 
brown. 

COLD SAUCE. 

Cream half a cupful of butter in a bowl, and stir half a ' 
cupful or more of powdered sugar gradually into it (using 
a 1 wooden spoon or the hand) until it is smooth and stiff 
and very white. Then add a little grated nutmeg, or lemon- ' 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 57 

juice, or essence of any kind, and pile it up lightly on a 
small dish. Set it in a cold place, or on ice. 

HOT SAUCE. 

Take half a pound of butter and half a pound of fine 
powdered sugar, and beat them to a froth with the hand or 
a wooden spoon. Then pour on it a large half pint of 
boiling water, stirring, briskly all the time. Have ready on 
the sauce dish some grated nutmeg or essence of lemon, 
pour the sauce onto it, and serve at once. 



NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 

Let the pupils put the bread in soak as soon as they come, 
and when the lesson has been given, they can make the 
bread pudding and the whole quantity of cold sauce which 
is given in the recipe. Show them how to get the little 
stems from the currants by rubbing them gently between 
the hands, or on a sieve. 



ge&&&n 23* 

In every kitchen there should be several cloths to be used 
in boiling meat, fish, and puddings. They should be made 
of new unbleached cotton, and hemmed and marked. 
There should also be a bag for straining jelly, several com- 
mon cloths for taking pans out of the oven, or handling 
anything hot, and some holders with loops. A piece of 



$8 MANUAL OF COOKERV. 

zinc is very convenient to stand hot kettles and pans on, 
and saves the table from a black mark. 

Milk, butter, and all materials which are to be used in 
cooking, should be fresh and sweet, and of the best quality. 
Care should always be taken also to use exactly the right 
quantity of everything, as suceess depends on attention to 
details, and every part should be rightly and properly done. 

When mixing and stirring, be careful to mix in constantly 
what remains on the sides of the bowl so that the mixture 
may be smooth and even throughout ; and if it is poured 
or changed from one bowl to another, scrape it all out neatly 
with a spoon or a small palette knife. Metal spoons will 
darken anything which has an acid in it, and it is always 
better to take a spoon out and lay it on a plate when it is 
not actually in use. It is often impossible to flavor or sea- 
son a dish rightly without tasting it ; this should always be 
done neatly and nicely by pouring a little from the mixing 
spoon into another spoon ; never taste with the mixing 
spoon until it has been washed. 

Batter should be made just before it is to be used, and should 
be beaten up very light with an egg-whisk. The yolks or 
whites of eggs can be kept for one or two days in a cool 
place, if the bowl is tightly covered with paper. If there 
is anything in the oven, be careful not to take off the covers 
of the stove, as it would interfere with the baking. There- 
fore be a beefsteak if is to broiled for dinner, it is better 
to select a cold dessert which can be prepared beforehand. 

NEW BEDFORD PUDDING. 

Four tablespoonfuls of flour, four tablespoon fuls of yellow 
corn meal, four eggs, one quart of boiling milk, one cupful 
of molasses, and one even teaspoonful of salt. 

Scald the corn meal with some of the boiling milk, and 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 59 

stir into it the flour, salt, molasses, and the well beaten 
eggs. Then slowly add the rest of the milk (which should 
have been cooled a little) and bake in a well buttered pud- 
ding dish, from two to three hours, in a moderate oven. 
Serve with cold butter, or with sauce. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Two cupfuls of flour, two eggs, three-quarters of a cupful 
of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one cupful of milk, 
one teaspoon ful of baking powder, and half a teaspoon ful 
of salt. 

Sift the flour with the baking powder and salt in it, and 
cream the butter and sugar together in a warm bowl. Beat 
the eggs until very light, and add them to the butter and 
sugar; then add the milk, and stir all into the flour very 
lightly and quickly. Pour the mixture into a buttered pud- 
ding dish, and bake to a light brown in a quick oven. Serve 
with hot lemon sauce. 

CUSTARD SAUCE. 

One pint of milk, half a cupful of sugar, and the yolks 
of four eggs. Mix the eggs into the sugar without beating 
them and add the milk. Set on the fire in a double boiler, 
and stir until it thickens. 

A sponge cake which is not quite fresh can be steamed 
until very hot ; then break it into large pieces, and serve 
in a dish with this sauce poured over it. 

NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 

Let the pupils make the cottage pudding, and half of the 
quantity of hot sauce given in the recipe in the twenty-sec- 
ond lesson. The other recipes can be used in their own 
homes. 



6o MANUAL OF COOKERY. 



Rice should be picked over carefully, and then thoroughly 
washed in several waters, rubbing it gently and draining it 
through a fine strainer. It is used as a vegetable, and also 
for desserts of various kinds. Cold rice can be made into 
rice croquettes, and can be used in griddle cakes, corncakes, 
and waffles. Always soften it first, however, in a little milk, 
and break up the lumps. 

Tapioca and sago are used chiefly in desserts. Sago, and 
the tapioca which comes in lumps, should be put in soak 
overnight in milk or water. Pearl tapioca comes in fine 
grains, and should be used in making tapioca cream ; and 
there is also a finely powdered tapioca which is used for 
thickening soups. 

wSweet apples are sometimes baked whole with the skins 
on, but should never be cooked in any other way. Greening 
apples should be used for dumplings, pies, and strained 
apple sauce ; and Spitzenberg and Baldwin apples for apple 
and tapioca pudding, and for unsweetened, or sweetened 
apple sauce which is to be left as whole as possible. 

APPLE AND TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Put two-thirds of a cupful of tapioca in soak overnight 
in a pint of cold water. Pour on it the next day one pint 
of. boiling water, and let it stand for an hour or more, stir- 
ring it occasionally until it is dissolved. Peel and core six 
or seven apples and put them in a buttered pudding dish, 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 6l 

placing one in the centre and the others in a circle round 
it. Fill the hole in each with a little sugar, and grated 
nutmeg or ground cinnamon ; pour in the tapioca round 
them, and bake until the apples are tender and thoroughly 
cooked, but they should retain their shape. Serve it either 
hot or cold, with sugar and either cream or milk. 

For a late dinner, the tapioca can be put in soak early in 
the morning. Sago can be used instead of tapioca or a 
custard can be poured round the apples and baked with 
them. 

GROUND RICK PUDDING. 

Three full tablespoonfuls of ground rice, four eggs, one 
quart of milk, one and a half cupfuls of sugar, a little lemon 
juice or extract, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt. 

Mix the ground rice and the salt with a little cold milk, 
and stir it into a quart of boiling milk ; let it boil about 
fifteen minutes, stirring all the time. When cold, add the 
beaten eggs, the sugar, and the lemon juice ; put it in a but- 
tered pudding dish, and bake it one hour. The dish can 
be lined with paste if preferred. 

SAGO PUDDING. 

Put a cupful of sago into a pint of milk, and set it near 
the fire to swell, stirring it often. When ready for use, add 
a pint of cold milk, two cups of sugar, a quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a little grated nutmeg, and five well beaten 
eggs. Put it in a buttered pudding dish, and bake for an 
hour and a half in a moderate oven. Tapioca can be used 
instead of sago. 



62 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 

Let the pupils make the apple and tapioca pudding, and 
if there is time, they might make a little apple sauce. It 
would be well also to question them thoroughly on the pre- 
vious lessons. 



If butter is too salt it can be washed in cold water, press- 
ing out all the water with a wooden spoon. Paste may be 
made with butter, with lard, or with butter and lard together. 
Lard makes a more tender paste ; but it is not so flaky as 
that which is made with butter. Paste should be made as 
quickly as possible and in a cold place. If it should work 
soft, do not keep adding more flour, but put it on ice ; or 
in winter set it in the open air for a time. When it has 
hardened, work it again. In trimming off the raw paste 
from the edge of the plate, hold the blade of the knife 
pointed outward, and cut with a sawing motion. In laying 
the under crust on the plate, lift it up a little once or twice, 
and do not stretch it too tightly ; the upper crust should 
always be pricked with a fork in several places. Tin pie 
plates and graniteware pie plates are considered the best, 
but the pies should be removed from them as soon as they 
are baked. 

Meat pies can be made from either cooked or uncooked 
meat ; if they are made from cold meat, cut the meat into 
pieces, add any cold gravy that may be left, some sliced 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 6$ 

or chopped onion, a little pepper and salt, and enough stock 
or water to make a gravy ; thicken it with a little butter 
and flour made into a smooth paste as for a roux. . If 
there should be any pie left, it is better to eat it cold ; 
veal pie becomes very unwholesome if heated a second time. 
Many persons prefer always to cook the meat somewhat 
before making a pie, for if raw meat is used, the paste will 
become hard and dry before the meat has cooked long 
enough to be tender. 

PLAIN PASTE. 

One quart of sifted flour, one tablespoonful of butter, 
three tablespoonfuls of lard, one scant teaspoonful of salt, 
and half a cupful of ice water, or enough to make a stiff 
dough. 

Rub the lard and salt into the flour with the tips of the 
fingers, until it is dry and crumbly. Add the Water slowly, 
and mix the dough with a knife. Finally gather it into a 
lump with the fingers, and turn it onto a board lightly 
dusted with flour. Flatten it by pounding lightly with the 
rolling pin, and dot it over with the butter in little bits. 
Roll it up, and if it can be put in a cold place, or on ice 
for a time, it will make it more flaky. When ready, roll it 
about an eighth of an inch thick, and cover the bottom and 
sides of a pie plate, laying it on a little full and trimming 
the edge neatly. Then wet it on the edge with a little cold 
water, and lay round it a narrow strip of paste, pressing 
them lightly together. Put in the filling, wet the strip with 
cold water and put on the top crust ; prick it with a fork 
and bake the pie at once. 

The top crust can be made richer by taking out enough 
dough for the bottom crust, before adding the butter. 



64 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

If more butter is used, it should be divided into several 
equal parts, and each part should be rolled in separately, 
using no additional flour. 

APPLE PIE. 

Five or six apples will make a pie ; they should be peeled, 
cored and cut into very thin slices. After covering the pie 
plate carefully with the dough for the under paste, fill the 
dish with the slices of apple, piling them higher in the 
middle, and sprinkle in with them a heaping cupful of sugar, 
and a little nutmeg or cinnamon. Then cover them with 
dough, trimming it neatly, and pricking or scoring it ; and 
bake in a moderate oven. After the top crust is done, let 
the pie stand for a few minutes in the oven, with the door 
open. 

MOCK APPLE PIE. 

Two soda-crackers, one cup of cold water, the grated 
rind and juice of one lemon, and flour and butter enough 
to make the paste. 

Soak the crackers in the water until it is absorbed, and 
then add the lemon and the sugar, beating them until smooth 
and well mixed. Bake in a deep pie plate with both under 
and upper paste. 

SQUASH PIE. 

Peel the squash and cut it into pieces ; then steam it 
until very soft, and strain it through a sieve. For every 
quart of squash add one teaspoonfu) of salt, two even tea- 
spoonfuls of ginger, half a teaspoon ful of cinnamon, one 
cupful and a half of sugar, and a quart of milk or cream. 
Mix them well with the squash, and add from two to five 
well beaten eggs. Bake in deep pie plates lined with paste, 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 65 

and with a thick rim. Cut a rim of paper to cover the 
crust, if it browns too fast ; bake half an hour. 



NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 

The whole lesson should be dictated, and then let the 
pupils make the plain paste and the apple pie ; if there is 
more dough then is required for the pie, they might be 
shown how to make a turnover. Great care has been taken 
to make the recipes in these lessons as clear as possible, and 
to give not only the ingredients, but the best methods of 
putting them together, so that the pupils can easily cook 
from them at home. In cooking, it is better to let begin- 
ners profit by the experience of others, for it is a waste of 
their time and brains to oblige them to puzzle over and 
work out for themselves things which can only be well done 
by those who have knowledge and judgment. There are 
many ways in which the mental faculties can be exercised 
and developed, but in teaching cooking give them every- 
thing as clearly and concisely as possible. 



66 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 



BREAKFAST DISHES. 



Coffee, tea, cocoa and chocolate should be made just 
before they are to be served, for if they are boiled or 
steeped too long, they become bitter and injurious. In 
making coffee and tea, the water should be boiling and also 
freshly boiled, for water which has been boiling several 
hours is not fit for such purposes. Coffee-pots and tea-pots 
should be thoroughly washed and dried whenever they are 
used. Tea should be made in an earthenware tea-pot, and 
never in one made of tin ; if a silver or plated tea-pot is 
used, stand it always on the table and not on or near the 
stove, for heat will melt silver. Both coffee and tea should 
be kept in tightly covered canisters. 

Most grocers keep roasted coffee on hand, but it should 
be bought in small quantities and unground, for coffee will 
lose its flavor if it is not used as soon as it is ground. If 
coffee is to be roasted at home it should be put in a pan 
into a moderately hot oven and constantly stirred with a 
wooden spoon, or coffee stick until it is all of an even 
brown color. The best coffee is made from Java and Mocha 
coffees mixed in the proportion of one-third Mocha to two- 
thirds Java. Many persons prefer drip coffee, which is 
made by filtering boiling water slowly through finely ground 
coffee, and patented coffee-pots on this principal can be 
bought at the house- furnishing stores. 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 67 

COFFEE. 

Allow one heaping tablespoonful of coffee, and half an 
egg-shell to every cupful of water After scalding the coffee- 
pot, break up the egg-shells and put them in, then add the 
coffee and cold water enough to moisten it, and lastly pour 
on the boiling water. Cover tightly and let it boil gently 
about four minutes ; pour out a cupful to clear the spout 
from grounds and return it to the coffee-pot, and let it 
stand at the back of the stove a few minutes to settle. Serve 
in the same coffee-pot if possible, as it loses flavor if poured 
into another. 

For strong black coffee, a larger quantity of ground coffee 
must be used with the same quantity of water. 

TEA. 

Allow one full teaspoonful of tea for each person, and an 
extra one to make good strength. Scald the tea-pot ; put 
in the dry tea-leaves and pour on them a small quantity of 
boiling water. Let the tea-pot stand on the table for a 
minute or two, and then pour on as much more boiling 
water as is required. 

In making English breakfast tea, it is better to pour on 
all the boiling water at once. 

MILK TOAST. 

Put one pint of milk on the fire in a double boiler. Warm 
a tablespoonful of butter and stir smoothly into it one table- 
spoonful of flour, adding a saltspoonful of salt, and a 
tablespoonful of the warm milk. When the rest of the 
milk boils, add the mixture slowly to it, stirring constantly 
until it thickens, and then set it at the back of the stove. 
Toast five or six slices of baker's bread and butter them 



68 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

while hot. Then dip each into the thickened milk long 
enough to soften it, and put it in a hot dish. When ail are 
dipped, pour the milk over them and serve at once. 

CORN CAKE. 

Sift together one cup of yellow or white cornmeal, one cup 
of flour, two even teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and half 
a teaspoonful of salt, and add one quarter of a cup of sugar. 
Beat well one or two eggs, and stir into them one cup of 
milk ; then melt quickly one large tablespoonful of butter 
in a small saucepan or tin cup, and add it to the milk and 
eggs and mix them at once into the flour and cornmeal 
before the butter has time to cool. Bake in deep layer 
cake pans, or any shallow pan, ^ filling them only half full. 
A quick oven is required. 



NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 

Let the pupils make the corn cake and the coffee, leaving 
the other recipes to be used at home. It would be well to 
tell them something about the various effects produced on 
different persons by coffee and tea ; and that when taken in 
moderation, they are often beneficial, while they become 
very injurious if taken to excess either in strength or quan- 
tity. Ask them also something about cornmeal, oatmeal 
and the different grains. 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 69 



Sugar, salt, soda, cream of tartar and all powders should 
be carefully freed from lumps by crushing or pounding them, 
and by sifting them through a fine sieve. One teaspoonful 
of soda and two teaspoon fuls of cream of tartar is the pro- 
portion for one quart of flour, and the directions for using 
them are "generally given in the recipes in which they occur. 
If soda is used with sour milk, put just enough soda into 
the sour milk to sweeten it. Usually it is dissolved in a 
little hot water, and when pouring it into the dough or batter 
be careful to leave in the cup the little coarse grains which 
have settled in the bottom of it. One heaping teaspoonful 
of baking powder will raise one pint of flour, and it is 
better to sift the salt and the baking powder with the flour. 
When soda, cream of tartar, or baking powder are used, 
the dough or batter should be lightly and quickly mixed 
and cooked at once. Some persons prefer to beat batter 
and others prefer to stir it ; the first method will make cake 
porous ; but the last will make it more tender and velvety. 
In putting ingredients together, flour and milk should 
always be added very slowly. Flour is sometimes sprinkled 
or sifted into the other ingredients, and sometimes it is better 
to add them slowly to the flour. If a small quantity of flour 
is used for thickening, it should be mixed into a smooth 
paste with a little milk, water, or melted butter, and then 
slowly stirred into the hot liquid. For gravies and sauces, 
butter is generally used as it will make them richer. If 
butter is melted over too hot a fire or is left too long on the 



70 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

stove, it will become oily ; it should merely be heated until 
soft enough to mix easily with the flour, or sugar. In cold 
weather it is sometimes impossible to cream butter without 
warming it a little. This can be done by setting the bowl 
on the tea-kettle until the steam has softened the butter, 
without melting it at all. 

COCOA. 
For one quart of cocoa, take one pint of milk, one pint 
of water and three tablespoonfuls of cocoa. Put the water 
and milk in a saucepan on the fire, and mix the cocoa with 
enough hot water to make a smooth paste. When the milk 
is boiling, stir the cocoa slowly into it ; let it boil a few 
minutes, and serve in a cocoa-pot which has been scalded. 
Half a cupful of sugar can be added, if desired ; but as 
some persons prefer it unsweetened, it is better to sweeten 
it at the table, so as to suit the different tastes. 

OATMEAL. 

There are several different kinds of oatmeal, which are 
of different grades of fineness, and some of them require to 
be cooked longer than others. Steamed oatmeal which 
comes in packages can be cooked in half an hour, and for 
unsteamed oatmeal these directions can be followed. 

Put one quart of water into a double boiler, and when 
it boils add one teaspoonful of salt, and one cupful of oat- 
meal, stirring it slowly in. Let it boil then at least two 
hours without stirring it at all and fill up the under saucepan 
with boiling water as often as is necessary to keep it from 
drying entirely away. 

GRAHAM BISCUIT. 
Three even cups of graham flour, one even cup of white 
flour, one teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of baking 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 



71 



powder, one pint of milk, two tablespoon fuls of butter, and 
one or two eggs. 

Sift the graham flour, the white flour, the salt and the 
baking powder together in a bowl. Break the egg into a 
small bowl, beat it well, and stir the milk slowly into it. 
Melt the butter and add it while hot to the milk and egg ; 
then stir them into the flour and meal, and beat them about 
five minutes. Butter the gem-pans and fill them about two- 
thirds full ; then bake in a quick oven twenty minutes. 

NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 

/ 

Let the pupils make the cocoa, and the graham biscuit, 
and boil a little steamed oatmeal ; and tell them how 
wholesome graham meal is, and how much better it is to 
use it part of the time, instead of using nothing but white 
flour. 



$$&&&n 28* 

"A place for everything and everything in its place " 
should be the motto for every kitchen, pantry and closet. 
There should be tight wooden buckets for flour, corn-meal, 
rice and sugar, and covered glass or stone jars, and wooden 
or tin boxes for the other materials which are kept on hand. 
Cornstarch, oatmeal and other things which come in 
packages should be put into boxes or jars, and not left 
loose in the paper and exposed to the dust. There should 
also be two bowls with lips, kept expressly for milk and 



72 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

used alternately ; a wooden salt -box with a hinged cover, as 
salt should never be kept in tin ; a " Foster " patent flour 
safe and sifter, which is much better for holding flour than 
a wooden bucket is ; two dredging boxes of different colors, 
one for flour and one for powdered sugar ; old cloths to 
wipe the floor and shelves, a tin match-box, a knife-board, 
a towel roller, and kettles, pans, saucepans and enough 
other cooking utensils to do the work comfortably and 
properly. Each one of these should be kept thoroughly 
clean and dry and in its own place. Sapolio is excellent 
for cleaning tin or wooden ware, and a little soda will clean 
iron kettles which have been neglected. If bread-pans, 
baking-pans and waffle irons are not kept very clean, 
especially in the corners, they will leave a black mark on 
everything which is cooked in them, and the crust of the 
bread will soon have an unpleasant taste. Copper cooking 
utensils require especial care, and should be kept perfectly 
cleaVi and bright, as the green rust which forms on them is 
poisonous. Bread and cake boxes should be frequently 
aired at the window, or in the sun, and refrigerators should 
be wiped out, and kept sweet and dry and closely shut, 
except when open for a time to air them. 

BOILED EGGS. 

Lay the eggs in warm water for a minute to prevent the 
shells from cracking ; then drop them gently into fast boil- 
ing water. Allow three minutes for a soft boiled egg, four 
minutes if the white is to be set firmly, and ten minutes for 
what is commonly called a hard boiled egg. It is much 
better, however, to boil eggs for about thirty minutes if we 
wish them to be really hard boiled. They will then be 
thoroughly cooked, and digestible. 



MANUAL OF COOKERY, 73 



BREAD GRIDDLE CAKES. 



Pour one pint of hot scalded milk onto one pint of bread- 
crumbs, and stir into them one full tablespoon ful of butter. 
Let them soak all night and then rub them through a 
vegetable strainer, and add two beaten eggs. Sift together 
one even cupful of flour, one-half teaspoonful of salt, and 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and mix them slowly 
with the crumbs, adding if necessary a little cold milk. 
Bake in small round cakes on the griddle,, and serve hot. 

WAFFLES, 

One even pint of flour, three eggs, ,one and a quarter 
cupfuls of milk, one tablespoonful of butter, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and one teaspoonful of baking powder. 

Sift the flour, the salt and the baking powder together 
into a bowl. Beat the eggs and add the milk slowly to 
them ; then melt the butter and add it, and stir the mix- 
ture into the flour until the batter is smooth. Beat it up 
lightly for a few minutes with an egg-whisk, and bake in a 
waffle-iron, filling it about half full. Serve the waffles hot, 
with a little powdered sugar sifted or dredged over each one. 

The waffle-iron should be well heated, and buttered before 
the batter is put in, and also between each set of waffles.' 
Let the batter always get somewhat firm and stiff, before 
turning the waffle-iron over ; otherwise it will run out, and 
the waffles will be thin and heavy. 



NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 

Let the pupils make the waffles, and some tea according 
to the recipe given in the twenty-sixth lesson. It would be 
well to show them how to mix batter carefully and nicely. 



74 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

and how to manage a waffle-iron. Let each pupil in turn 
bake a waffle. 



The small knives which come for paring vegetables are 
very useful in a kitchen, and there should be also a sharp 
meat knife, a bread knife, a large palette knife for mixing 
cake, and one or two small palette knives. A wooden knife 
is useful for many purposes, and there should be several 
wooden spoons, and plenty of bowls of all sizes, and a coffee 
cup for measuring sugar and butter. A coffee cup holds 
about half a pint, and a half pint measure can be used 
instead of it. There is a brown glazed earthenware which 
is used for jars and cooking utensils, and is very good for 
boiling rice, potatoes and other vegetables, but it should 
never be used for fruit or for anything acid, because acids 
act on some kinds of glazing just as they do on tin or zinc, 
and may become poisonous. Neither vinegar nor even 
sweet milk should be put in them, for the milk might sour. 
It is best to be careful also in measuring and mixing anything 
which is acid ; extracts, and the juice of fruits should be 
measured iruchina spoons or glass measuring cups, and not 
in iron or leaden spoons, and bowls are much better for 
mixing purposes than tin pans are. Care should be taken 
never to put anything hot or even warm into a refrigerator, 
as the sudden change will affect it injuriously. Milk and 
butter are often affected by fruits and vegetables in the same 
refrigerator, and should be kept separate from them. 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 75 

CHOCOLATE. 

Two squares of baker's, or any unsweetened chocolate, 
half a cupful of sugar, one pint of milk, and one pint of 
water, one teaspoonful of cornstarch. 

Put the milk and water on the fire in a double boiler ; 
then grate or scrape the chocolate very fine and put it in a 
saucepan with a tablespoon ful of hot water. Stir it for a 
few minutes on the fire until it is smooth and glossy, and 
when the milk and water are boiling, pour them slowly into 
it, stirring all the time. Let all boil for a minute, and 
then stir into it one teaspoonful of cornstarch or arrowroot 
made into a smooth paste with a little cold water. Boil for 
about a minute and serve. 

A little thick whipped cream either sweetened or unsweet- 
ened can be served on the top of each cup. 

SALLY LUNN. 

One pint of flour, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, half a 
teaspoonful of salt, two eggs, half a cupful of butter, half 
a cupful of milk, and two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Sift together the flour, the sugar, the salt, and the baking 
powder. Beat the eggs and add the milk slowly to them, 
then add the butter after melting it and stir the mixture at 
once into the flour, beating them all up lightly. Bake fif- 
teen minutes in a large round pan with a tube in the centre, 
or in gem pans, and dredge a little powdered sugar over the 
top before serving. 

Very nice gem cakes can be made for breakfast by this 
recipe with the sugar omitted. 

SHORT-CAKE. 

One quart of flour, one cup of butter, half a pint of milk, 
and one teaspoonful of salt. 



j6 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

Sift together the flour, the salt, and the baking powder; 
rub in the butter; heat the milk and add it slowly. After 
mixing the dough, roll it out lightly, and cut into small 
squares, and bake a light brown in a quick oven. 

This same dough can bebgked in deep layer cake pans 
and used for strawberry short-cake. 

. . ■ i 

CORNMEAL MUSH. 

Put one quart of water in a saucepan on the fire, and 
when it boils add one even tablespOonful of salt, and take 
off the little scum from the top ; then sprinkle slowly into 
it with the left hand some yellow or white cornmeal, stirring 
constantly with a wooden spoon in the right hand. Con- 
tinue this until- the mush is stiff enough,. and then let it 
cook gently for about fifteen or twenty minutes, stirring 
occasionally; when it is done, it will puff up and bubble. 
Serve with sugar and milk, or with syrup. 

It there is any left over, mould it in a deep square pud- 
ding dish and slice and cook it for breakfast the next morn- 
ing in a frying pan. ' ' ' 



NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 

Let the pupils make the Sally Lunn, and boil a little corn- 
meal mush. Tell them also that whenever they have not 
quite as much milk as is given, in a recipe, it will do no harm 
to use a little water with it. There is a mistaken impression 
that the more milk and butter there is in anything, the nicer 
it will be ; whereas too much milk or too much butter will 
make a thing very heavy. If in trying a recipe for the first 
time the batter or dough proves to be too soft, it is better 
to take less milk or water the next time instead of adding 
more flour. 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 77 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES. 



Fish should be selected with great care, as they are 
unwholesome if not fresh. Fish when fresh have full clear 
eyes, bright red gills, and firm flesh. They should be kept 
in a cold place, and thoroughly cleaned and washed, and 
carefully dried before they are cooked. • They may be 
boiled, baked, fried, broiled, or made into chowder. The 
largest fish are generally boiled, the medium sized ones can 
be either boiled or baked, and the smallest ones are usually 
fried or broiled. A kettle with a strainer should be used 
for boiling fish. If there is any cold fish left over, it can 
be freed from bones, and minced with a little cold potato, 
a small piece of butter, a little salt and pepper, and a little 
milk, and then shaped into round cakes and cooked in hot 
butter in the frying-pan for breakfast, or it can be put into 
a shallow dish and. browned in the oven. Salt mackerel 
should be put in soak over night, and may be boiled or 
fried ; in the latter case, they should be well dried before 
cooking them. 

' BOILED FISH. 

Salmon should never be soaked in water, but should be 
well washed and a little salt should be rubbed into it. Then 



78 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

wrap it in a floured cloth closely fastened, and put it into 
slightly salted boiling water, allowing five minutes to a 
pound after it begins to boil. When it is done, take it out, 
unwrap the cloth carefully, and serve with rich drawn butter 
with a little minced parsley and lemon juice stirred into it ; 
pouring some of it over the fish. The middle slice of a 
salmon is considered the best piece to boil. 

The head and shoulders of a cod is considered the best 
part to boil. Lay it in cold salted water for an hour, then 
scrape and wash it clean, rub in a little salt and cayenne 
pepper, and wrap it in a floured cloth, fastening it tightly 
enough to keep all water out, and put it into boiling water, 
letting it boil gently and allowing four or five minutes to 
the pound. Then take it out and remove the cloth care- 
fully, taking care not to break the fish, and not to let any 
water get into the dish. Small fish are boiled whole Egg 
sauce is generally served with boiled fish. This is drawn 
butter with small pieces of hard-boiled egg in it, and some 
of it should always be poured over the fish. 

A little vinegar is sometimes put into the water in which 
fish is boiled, but is never used with salmon. 

FRIED FISH, 

The fish should be nicely cleaned and washed, and wiped 
quite dry. Small fish can be dipped in egg and crumbs 
and fried in a kittle of boiling fat, or they can be dipped 
in flour or cornmeal and cooked in a frying pan with a 
little lard or salt pork. In cooking a moderate sized fish 
in this way, the skin should be slightly scored, and the 
opening which was made in order to clean the fish, should 
be fastened over with a small skewer. Small and medium 
sized fish can be fried whole. 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 79 

Large fish should be cleaned, boned, and cut into pieces 
about three or four inches square ; these should be washed 
and wiped dry and can be dipped in egg and crumbs and 
fried in boiling fat, or cooked in a frying-pan. Fresh cod 
can be cooked very nicely, by frying some thin slices of fat 
salt pork in a flat bottomed kettle or deep pan, and when 
they are brown and crisp take them out on a hot plate, and 
add enough lard to the melted pork, to cover the fish well. 
Dip the pieces of fish in egg and either crumbs or flour, 
and when the fat is boiling hot again, put them in and fry 
a light brown. Serve with the slices of pork round the 
edge of the dish, and garnish with sprigs of parsley. 

BROILED SHAD. 

Scrape and scale a shad, split it down the back, wash it 
clean' and wipe it dry. Lay it in a well-greased fish broiler, 
and hold the skin side first to the fire. Cook it from ten 
to twenty minutes according to the size, turning it occa- 
sionally. When done, place it on a hot dish, sprinkle it 
with salt and pepper, and butter it. Large fish require a 
slower fire than small ones do. 



NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 

Let the pupils clean a small fish and cook it in a frying 
pan, showing them how to prepare it nicely, and how to 
cook it slowly so that it may get thoroughly done without 
browning too much. Let them also make the short-cake 
which was given in the twenty-ninth lesson, showing them 
how to knead and cut dough without leaving any little 
pieces of it on the bread-board, for if they are not gathered 
in each time with the dough, they become dry and hard, 
and must then be thrown away as they would injure the 
bread. 



8o MANUAL 'OF COOKERY 



g£##*m 31* 

Poultry should have bright full eyes, and soft moist skin 
and should be plump and healthy looking. They should 
be killed by quickly cutting off the head, and not by wring- 
ing the neck. Then hang them up for. a time with the neck 
down; pick them and draw them' as soon. as possible, but 
do not cook them for at least eight or ten hours after they 
have been killed. 

In buying those which have already been killed, select 
those which are plump and have fine grained flesh; if 
turkeys and chickens are tender, the tip of the breast-bone 
will be tender, and the wing will separate easily if gently 
pulled. Many persons think that those with light colored 
skins are nicer and more delicate than those which have 
deep yellow skins ; but every one should follow her own 
taste in such a matter. If a turkey or chicken is to be 
boned, care should be taken to buy one which has not been 
scalded, as that makes the skin very weak. 

STUFFING. 

Allow a one-pound loaf of baker's bread for an eight or 
ten pound turkey. Cut off the crust and break the inside 
into pieces; put these in a bowl; and pour on them water 
which has been slightly warmed (as very warm water will make 
them heavy). Let them stand about a, minute, and then 
take up a handful at a time; squeeze it hard with both 
hands, and place it in a dish until all are done. Toss 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 8 I 

it lightly with the fingers, and add one teaspoonful of salt, 
one teaspoonful of pepper, one scant teaspoonful of pow- 
dered summer savory, one scant teaspoonful of powdered 
sage, and lastly a tablespoonful of butter. Work it all 
thoroughly together, and it can be used for fish and meat 
as well as for fowls. It can also be varied in many ways 
by adding other ingredients; some persons add a beaten 
egg, and for geese and ducks, a little onion chopped fine is 
used. Chopped parsley and a little chopped salt pork are 
used in stuffing for fish, and the dried herbs can be omitted. 
The quantity of stuffing that should be made depends of 
course on the size of the bird or fish. 

BROILED CHICKEN. 

After dressing and washing the chicken, split it open 
through the back bone, cut the cords under the wings, and 
lay the wings out flat ; cut the sinews under the second 
joint of the leg, and turn the leg down, pressing down the 
breast bone without breaking it. Rub a little salt over it, 
and place it on a gridiron over a slow fire, turning the 
inside first to the fire, and pla< ing a tin sheet and a weight 
over the chicken to keep it flat. Let it broil eight or ten 
minutes, and then turn it and cook the other side in the 
same way, continuing this until the chicken is done. Serve 
on a hot platter, sprinkling both sides with pepper and 
putting some small pieces of butter on the upper side. 

A broiled chicken should be thoroughly cooked, without 
being scorched, and in order to insure this, it must be 
closely watched, and the heat should be distributed as 
equally as possible. 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 



NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 



Let the pupils clean and broil a chicken , and impress upon 
them the importance of doing it always thoroughly and 
carefully. In schools of cookery it is very much better to 
let the pupils do the work themselves in turn, with what 
explanation and help may be required from the teacher to 
enable them to do it rightly. They take more interest and 
learn much more than they do when one of them does the 
work and the others look on, and with system and good 
management this can easily de done. 



In preparing poultry for cooking, remove all the feathers, 
singe the bird over a burning newspaper on the top of the 
stove, take out all the pin feathers, and then draw it very 
nicely, being careful not to break the gall-bag or any of 
the other organs. Cut off the head, neck and feet, take 
out with the finger anything that is in the neck, and wash 
the inside thoroughly in several waters. Then dry it care- 
fully inside and out with a clean cloth, and fasten the neck 
close to the body by drawing a piece of skin over it and 
holding it with a stitch or a small skewer. The gizzard, 
liver, neck and heart should be cleaned and laid in cold 
water. Many persons put a little soda in the last water but 
one with which the inside of a chicken is washed, as it will 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 83 

prevent the bitter taste which is often noticed in the stuff- 
ing if a chicken or turkey is not entirely fresh. Poultry 
which are bought in market should be cleaned and rubbed 
with a little salt on the inside as soon as they are brought 
home, even if they are not to be cooked at once. White 
mending cotton is very good for sewing up fish, birds, and 
meat because it is softer than thread and does not tear the 
skin. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

After preparing the turkey, fill it with stuffing and sew it 
up ; tie or skewer the wings down to the sides, and tie 
down the legs also unless the butcher has left a strap of 
skin to hold them. Rub it over with butter, place it evenly 
on a rack fitted into a dripping pan, pour a little water 
into the pan, and then sprinkle the turkey with pepper and 
salt, and dredge it with flour, and put it into the oven. 
Melt a tablespoonful of butter in a cupful of boiling water, 
and baste frequently with it; sprinkle the turkey once more 
with pepper and salt, and dredge it for the last time about 
fifteen minutes before it is to be taken from the oven. After 
removing the skewers and strings, serve it on a hot platter, 
with the gizzard, and garnish with parsley. Cranberry 
sauce should be served with it. 

GRAVY FOR ROAST TURKEY. 

Before the turkey is put into the oven to roast, put the 
neck, heart, liver, and gizzard into a saucepan with a pint 
and a half of cold water and half a teaspoonful of salt ; let 
them boil gently until they are quite tender, then take them 
out of the water, leaving that in the saucepan ; throw away 
the neck, leave the gizzard whole to be served with the 



84 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

turkey, and braid the liver and heart fine with a knife, or 
put them through a sieve. Work into them a small piece 
of butter and a little flour, and put them back into the water 
in the saucepan with a quarter of a teaspoon ful of pepper. 
Let the gravy boil gently and stir constantly until it is 
smooth, and then serve it. 

Some persons prefer to remove all fat from the drippings 
in the pan in which the turkey has been cooked, and to stir 
this into them and let it all boil a few minutes, and then 
serve it. 



NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 

Let the pupils prepare a small turkey or chicken and put 
it in the oven before the lesson is given, using the recipe 
for stuffing which is given in the thirty-first lesson, and 
making of course a smaller quantity of it. Show them 
particularly how to prepare the liver for the gravy. If they 
all stand round a long table, each one can always have a 
share in the work by letting the girl who stands at the left 
of the teacher do her part first, and then move round to the 
right of the teacher. 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 85 



ge&#0xx 33* 

Hams, tongues, and corned beef should be put on In cold 
water enough to cover them well, and should never be 
allowed to boil very hard as it will make them tough. When 
they have boiled for a few minutes at the front of the stove, 
set them where they will boil gently. The brisket and the 
aitch-bone are the best pieces of corned beef for boiling, 
and if bought already corned at the market they will not 
require to be soaked, but should be cleaned nicely. Boil 
the beef until tender, allowing about twenty minutes or half 
an hour to a pound. If it is to be served hot, a cabbage is 
•often cooked with it, and after pressing out carefully all the 
water, it may be put round the corned beef on the same 
platter, or served in a separate dish. If the meat is to be 
served cold, remove the bones, place it in a dish, and put 
a plate on it with the upper side down, then put a flat-iron 
on this and leave it until the beef is cold and well pressed. 
Some persons prefer to let salt meats partly cool in the 
water in which they have been boiled. 

If ham is to be broiled or fried, cut it into slices about a 
quarter of an inch thick, and trim off carefully the black 
rim of skin from each slice. If it is very salt, lay it in cold 
water for half an hour, but dry it well before cooking it. 
When broiled, or fried, ham and bacon should always be 
served at one, as they become tough and dry if kept stand- 
ing by the fire. 



86 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

A smoked tongue should be washed and put in soak over 
night ; in the morning put it on the stove in cold water, 
and boil gently until tender, which will take from three to 
four hours, according to the size. Then take it out, peel 
off the skin, and serve it cold. 



BOILED HAM. 

Wash off the dust from the ham and put it in soak over 
night ; in the morning scrape it and put it on the fire in 
cold water enough to cover it well. Boil it gently for sev- 
eral hours, or until quite tender. Let it partly cool in the 
water in which it has been boiled, then take it out, remove 
the skin carefully, and set the ham on a rack in a dripping 
pan. Sprinkle it well with fine bread crumbs, and let it 
brown in the oven for a few minutes. 

A cold ham bone can always be used in making split pea 
soup, and will make the soup very nice if it is boiled in it. 

DEVILED HAM. 

Take the meat which is left of a cold ham, remove the 
hard dark bits, but leave some fat. Chop it very finely 
until it is almost a paste; and for a pint of this make the 
following dressing : mix together one scant teaspoon ful of 
ground mustard, one tablespoonful of sugar, one-quarter of 
a teaspoonful of Cayenne pepper, and then slowly add two- 
thirds of a cupful of good vinegar. Stir this into the 
minced ham, pack it into a mould, and keep in a cool 
place. Turn it onto a platter, garnish it with parsley, and 
serve at lunch or breakfast. The roots of a tongue can be 
used in the same way. 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 



NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 



Buy some cold cooked ham at a restaurant, and if the 
pupils devil it as soon as they come, it can be turned out 
and eaten before they leave. They can also fry a slice of 
raw ham and two or three eggs. The teacher should always 
remember to question the class on the previous lesson, and 
occasionally should question them on all the past lessons in 
turn. Their minds can be developed, and the important 
facts and principles can be more clearly and strongly im- 
pressed upon them by questioning than they can in any 
other way. It is better also not to give them too much 
general information, or tell them several different ways of 
cooking a dish, because it confuses their minds, and if 
they first learn one method thoroughly, they can easily vary 
it for themselves after a little experience. Any, girl who 
can answer intelligently and correctly all the questions 
which are given at the end of these lessons will have a good 
knowledge of cookery, and will be able to acquire for her- 
self from books and recipes any additional information 
which she may need, unless she wishes to cook something 
very difficult and elaborate. 



88 MANUAL OF COOKER V". 



ge&&otx 34* 

On account of the infinite variety which exists in the 
constitutions and temperaments of different persons, there 
cannot be any fixed rules given in regard to food ; and 
opinions and theories as to what is best will always vary. 
Good and well-cooked food is undoubtedly conducive to 
good health, but it should be adapted to the taste and cus- 
toms of those who are to eat it. One person may prefer 
tender, moist bread, and rare meat, while anothei likes meat 
well done, and dry, fine-grained bread ; and both are equally 
wholesome. One person will say that beef-tea is not as 
nourishing as it has been supposed to be, while another, who 
has seen many lives saved by it, w r ill never accept that the- 
ory. The hygiene, chemistry and physiology which you 
study at school are very interesting, and have a certain re- 
lation to what we eat, but cookery is a distinct art by itself, 
and the best cooks have often known nothing of the laws 
of health, nor why yeast will cause dough to rise; and 
therefore in receiving and in practising your cooking 
lessons you must pay close attention to the facts and prin- 
ciples of practical cookery. As the dishes you have made 
have been intended chiefly for those who are in good health, 
I will give you in this last lesson a few recipes for dishes 
which can be used for the sick, and will begin with some 
general directions in regard to the use of beef-tea. 

Beef-essence is very strong, and should be used carefully, 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 89 

and only for those who are unable to take any other nourish- 
ment. A teaspoonful is all that should be given at a time. 
A half teaspoonful of it given every hour will sometimes 
bring up a very sick person when nothing else will. It can 
be used either hot or cold, as the patient may fancy. 

Beef-tea is weaker than beef-essence, and when it is given 
to a very sick person who is taking no food, one ounce 
every hour, two ounces every two hours, or three ounces 
every three hours, according to the condition of the patient, 
has been found to be a very good rule. When it is given 
merely to strengthen a convalescent, a cupful between meals 
is sufficient. 

It is important to continue to give nourishment through 
the night to sick persons who are awake, but they should 
not be wakened for it. Even convalescents will feel stronger 
in the morning if they have had a cupful of beef-tea or 
milk in the night. 

BEEF-ESSENCE. 

Take one pound of the round of beef and cut it into small 
pieces with a sharp knife, removing every particle of fat, 
then put in a wide-mouthed bottle, cork it tightly, place 
it in a kettle of cold water and bring it gradually to a boil. 
Let it boil three or four hours, and then pour off the juice 
(which will be about a cupful), and season it with a little 
salt. 

BEEF-TEA NO. i. 

Take one pound of lean beef, and cut it with a sharp 
knife into small pieces, removing every particle of fat ; put 
it into a bowl with one pint of cold water, and let it soak 
several hours. Then put the meat and the same water into 
a covered saucepan and let it gradually come to a boil; 



90 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

when it has boiled five or six minutes strain it and season 
it with a little salt and pepper. 

BEEF-TEA NO. 2. 

Prepare a pound of beef as before, and put it in a kettle 
with a quart of cold water. Let it boil down one-half, and 
then strain it, and season with salt and pepper. 

The meat for beef-tea should always be cut with a sharp 
knife drawn quickly through the pieces, leaving them with 
open edges so that the juice may come out freely. Beef 
for tea should never be chopped with a chopping knife as 
it will become a tangled mass from which only a little juice 
can come, and a part of it will be lost in the wooden tray. 

MILK PORRIDGE. 

Put one pint of milk on the stove in a double boiler, 
and mix one even tablespoonful of sifted flour into a smooth 
paste with a little cold water or milk. When the milk boils, 
add this slowly to it with a little salt, stirring constantly. 
Let it boil about five minutes and it is ready for use. 

CORNMEAL GRUEL. 

Mix one tablespoonful of fine cornmeal with one-half a 
saltspoonful of salt, and enough cold water to make a 
smooth paste. Add it slowly to a pint of boiling water, 
and cook it about twenty minutes, stirring constantly. 

This gruel can be made with half a pint of water and 
half a pint of milk. 

OATMEAL GRUEL. 

Put four tablespoonfuls of the coarsely ground oatmeal 
with a little salt into a pint of boiling water. Let it boil 
gently, and stir constantly until it is as thick as you wish 



MANUAL OK COOKERY. 9 I 

it; then strain it and flavor it with a little nutmeg or any- 
thing which is allowed. 



NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 

In this lesson the pupils will not be able to make the 
beef-tea, unless they make one-half of the quantity given 
in recipe No. 1, and put the beef in soak as soon as they 
come. It can be soaked for an hour or so and cooked 
longer than the time which is given, and they will then see 
how it ought to look, and how it should be cut up. They 
might make one of the gruels or the porridge, as the teacher 
may prefer. As this course of lessons is intended to include 
all that is required to enable girls to understand the different 
processes of cooking, and to carry it on farttier by them- 
selves without more instruction, some of the lessons are 
unavoidably a little longer than others are. There may 
also be more lessons than can be given in a limited school 
year, which is more or less interrupted by holidays ; in that 
case the two lessons on poultry can be omitted, or the last 
lessons can be hurried by giving a little extra dictation on 
one day, and a little extra cooking on the next one. 
Without giving too much time to little unnecessary details, 
a teacher should have her pupils always under control, and 
should 4iave the class-room and everything in it kept clean 
and in good order, and see that the dishes, boxes and brushes 
are all put back just where they came from, and that every- 
thing which contains material is labelled in order to prevent 
mistakes, which might be dangerous. If she will carry out 
faithfully and with interest her part of the work, I think 
that at the end of the year her pupils will show that they 
have accomplished their's. 



92 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 



QUESTIONS. 

ON THK 
MANAGEMENT OF A STOVE AND OF A FIRE. 

How do you prepare the stove before making afire in it ? 

How should the dampers and drafts be arranged? 

Where do you put the ashes, and what must be done to 
them J 

When is the best time to put cinders on the fire? 

How should the paper and wood be placed ? 

Is all the coal put on at once ? 

After the fire is lighted, how do you arrange the dampers ? 

Why should the upper main damper always be left a little 
open ? 

How high should a grate be filled with coal ? 

If the grate is too full, how does it affect the heat ? 

What must be done to the fire as soon as the breakfast 
is entirely cooked ? 

If there is bread to be baked, how do you prepare the 
oven? 

If there is no more cooking to be done until dinner, what 
kind of fire do you need ? 

How does an open door or window opposite a stove affect 
a fire ? 

Can you light a fire in winter if the water pipes are frozen ? 

Is it ever safe to use coal oil in lighting a fire ? 

What wood is best for kindling? 

Which kind of coal is best for a stove, and which for a 
range ? 



MANUAL OF COOKERY 



93 



Are all stoves and ranges managed in the same way ? 
What kind of fire is needed for baking? 
How do you test the oven ? 

How often should the stove be blacked ; and how is it 
done? 

How often should the oven flue be cleaned out ? 
Are there other flues which require to be cleared ? 

MANAGEMENT OF BREAD AND BISCUIT. 

What are the two kinds of white flour called ? 

Which should be used for cake or pastry, and which 
should be used for bread ? 

Which is the cheapest flour in the end, and where should 
flour be kept? 

If the bread is to be moist and tender, what kind of dough 
do you make ? 

How long should it be kneaded ? 

How should the dough be mixed and kneaded for fine- 
grained, dry bread ? 

How should the dough for tip-top biscuit be mixed and 
kneaded ? 

How do you knead dough on a bread board, and with 
what kind of motion ? 

If too much flour is used, or worked in on the bread 
board, how does it affect the bread, cake, or pastry? 

Why should you cut as many biscuit as possible from each 
rolling of the dough ? 

Should bread dough be mixed with cold, or lukewarm 
water ? 

Should it be put in a cold or a warm place to rise ? 

Should bread be treated in winter in the same way as in 
summer ? 



94 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

How do you cover the pan in which it is set to rise? 

What shall you do to the dough in the morning? 

How long should bread rise in the pans, and how long 
should rolls ? 

Can the rising of dough be hastened in any way ? 

Should the oven be hotter for rolls than for bread ? 

What can you tell me about yeast ? 

How much baker's yeast is required for two quarts of 
flour ? 

Will one-third of a cake of Fleischman's yeast raise two 
quarts of flour ? 

How can the rest of the cake be kept good for a short 
time? 

Do you make a stiff dough for sugar cookies ? 

What can you tell me about rolling, cutting, and baking 
them ? 



ON BOILING AND THE MANAGEMENT OF BOILED DISHES. 

How can you tell when the water in a kettle is boiling? 

Where do the bubbles remain when water is only sim- 
mering ? 

Do you put into a saucepan at once all the water which 
will be needed ? 

If it boils away too much, should the water that is added 
be actually boiling ? 

Should you ever allow anything to stop boiling ? 

If it should stop even for a minute, what would the effect 
be? 

If you are boiling meat, or vegetables, or puddings, do 
you let them boil fast ? 

What effect does gentle boiling have on them? 

Is not gentle boiling better for everything ? 



MANUAL OF COOKERY 



95 



Should saucepans and kettles be filled entirely full ? 

Why should not they be filled full ? 

Do you ever leave them on the fire without any water in 
them ? 

How would it injure them ? 

When you put anything on to boil, do you not generally 
merely cover it well with water ? 

If you are intending to boil one thing four hours, and 
another only two hours, would you put the same amount of 
water with both ? 

When you are cooking oatmeal, custard, milk, or any- 
thing which will burn easily, what kind of boiler do you 
use ? 

What is a double boiler ? 

What can be used in place of it ? 

Do you fill the lower saucepan with boiling water before 
putting anything into the upper one ? 

How can you tell when milk is boiling in a double boiler? 

In what other way can potatoes, oatmeal and many other 
things be cooked ? 

How often do you wash the tea-kettle, and fill it with 
fresh water ? 

Will it injure the tea and coffee if it is not kept clean ? 

Should you ever use the water from a range boiler for 
cooking? 

How do you prepare the meat and bone for soup stock ? 

What kind of kettle is it made in. 

How much water do you allow for every pound of meat ? 

How much salt, and how much pepper do you put in for 
this quantity? 

Do you let the meat stand in the water before putting it 
on the fire ? 



g6 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

After putting it on the fire, do you let it come to a boil 
slowly or fast? 

After skimming it why do you still let it boil. steadily and 
gently? 

How much time is allowed for every pound of meat? 

Should the stock be boiled down much ? 

When it is done what proportion will it bear to the origi- 
nal quantity of water? 

If it does not boil down fast enough what can you do to 
hasten it? 

Do you strain stock ? 

What do you put it into ; and what will form on the top ? 

Do you remove this cake of fat ? 

If the stock is made of beef only, what can this fat be 
used for ? 

What will the consistency of the stock be in winter? 

Can it be used even if it should not become a jelly? 

Do you always use the. stock for soup without diluting it ? 

If it is diluted what proportion of water is used? 

What is brown stock made from ? 

What is white stock made from ? 

What is a stock-pot, and how often should it be emptied 
and cleaned ? 

What else do you make soup from ; cannot you use cold 
meat bones? 

What do you ask for at the butcher's when you wish to 
buy meat for soup ? 

Why must the bones be cracked when they are used for 
soup? 

Can you mention some of the vegetables which are used 
in soup ? 

Do you strain a vegetable soup or not ? 

Do you peel potatoes when you intend to boil them ? 



MANUAL OF COOKERY 



97 



Are old and new potatoes treated in the same way ? 

Should potatoes be put in soak, and should they be put 
on the fire in boiling or in cold water ? 

How much salt is allowed to a quart of water in cooking 
them ? 

How long do you cook potatoes ? 

If they are not all of the same size, what can you do? 

How do you make them mealy? 

How do you mash potatoes? 

How do you make what is called potato snow ? 

In making drawn butter, how do you put the butter and 
flour together ? 

How long must you stir the flour into the melted butter? 

What do you add then ? 

How can you make drawn butter more or less rich ? 

What kinds of meal are used in Boston brown bread ? 

Do you use any white flour? 

Is it made with sweet or sour milk? 

How is it cooked ? 

What is caramel made of, and what is it used for ? 

What can you tell me about green vegetables ; should not 
they be fresh ? 

Are they always put on in boiling water, and what kind 
of boiling water do you use ? 

Do you always put in salt? 

How much ? 

How long a time should they generally be cooked? 

Can any exact rule be given ? 

Why not ? 

How can you tell when they are done ? 

If tomatoes are to be served raw, how do you prepare 
them ? 

How do you peel them, and what are they dressed with ? 



98 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

Should not they be kept for a time in a cold place ? 

If tomatoes are to be cooked, how do you prepare them 
for peeling? 

Why do you pour hot water on them ? 

Can you tell me some of the different ways in which 
tomatoes can be cooked ? 

After opening a can of tomatoes is it safe to leave what 
is not used in the can ? 

What should be done with it ? 

What are the two chief ingredients in the soup called 
Mock Bisque ? 

Why is it a convenient soup, and why is it called Mock 
Bisque ? 

What is the foundation of most sauces, and how is it 
made ? 

What is the difference between a brown roux and a white 
roux ? 

Can you make a variety of sauces from these ? 

What would you add if you wish to make a brown sauce, 
and how would you make a white sauce ? 

How do you -prepare rice ? 

Must it be washed in several waters? 

In making cornstarch Blanc Mange, how can you put the 
cornstarch into the hot milk smoothly, so that there may be 
no lumps ? 

When adding flour or any thickening to hot milk or water, 
do not you generally first make it into a smooth paste, and 
also stir them constantly ? 

What should be done to the moulds before the cornstarch 
is poured into them ? 

How do you mould cornstarch ; in one mould, or in cups ? 

Can you tell me how eggs should be poached ? 



MANUAL OF COOKERY 



99 



Can you tell me something about yeast, and what it is 
made of? 

Where should eggs be kept ? 

Why should some of the egg shells be saved, when you 
are breaking eggs ? 

Why do you break each egg singly over a cup ? 

If an egg is fresh and good, how will the white of it 
look? 

If you are separating the yolks from the whites, and a 
little of the yolk gets into the whites, how can you take it 
out? 

How must you hold the upper arm when you are beating 
eggs? 

What is a Dover egg-beater used for ? 

Why is it only good for yolks or whole eggs? 

Why does it injure the whites, and what should they be 
beaten with ? 

Do you wash the upper part of a Dover egg-beater ? 

How do you keep the little wheels from wearing out ? 

Can any fixed rule be given for the amount of sugar re- 
quired for a meringue ? 

What is a meringue made of ? 

Is it put on while a pudding is hot? 

If you wish to brown it a little, how can you do it ? 

Is it safe to keep puddings or cakes which have milk, eggs, 
and flavorings in them? 

Will they become dangerous ? 

Are not the juices of fresh fruit always much better than 
extracts ? 

What kind of boiler do you cook a custard in ? 

Must it be stirred constantly ? 

How can you tell when it is cooked enough, and how do 
you prevent it from curdling? 



IOO MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

Do you use whole eggs, or only the yolks? 
How do you serve soft custard ? 



ON FRYINC AND THE MANAGEMENT OF FRIED DISHES. 

When we immerse and cook anything in very hot fat 
what is it called ? 

What kind of kettle is used for frying ? 

How full of fat should it be? 

How can you tell when the fat is hot enough to use ? 

Should not the heat of the fat in frying be as carefully regu- 
lated as an oven is for baking ? 

How will the lightest dough be affected if the fat is not 
right ? 

If the fat is too hot, what will happen ? 

If it is too cool, what effect will it have ? 

Do you go right on frying without stopping to let the fat 
heat up? 

Why must you put only a few doughnuts or fishballs in at 
a time ? 

How would the chilling of the fat affect them ? 

Where should a kettle of hot fat always be placed? 

If it were near the edge of a stove, and upset, would not 
the burn be much worse than that made by water? 

Why must you never let any cold water touch hot fat ? 

Why do you put the doughnuts and fishballs into the 
kettle carefully with a ladle ? 

In making doughnuts should the dough be stiff or soft ? 

What shape do you make them ? 

When they are done, how do you take them out of the 
kettle? 

What do you put them in for a time? 

Are they ever sprinkled with powdered sugar ? 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. IOI 

Do you make them with sour milk, or sweet milk ? 

What is used with the sour milk, and what with the sweet 
milk? 

When you have finished your frying, do you leave the 
lard in the kettle ? 

What do you strain it through, and what do you keep 
it in ? 

Can you add fresh lard to this? 

If anything has been fried which has given the lard an 
unpleasant taste, how can you make it fit to use again ? 

How much water do you put in the kettle with the cold 
lard ? 

How can you tell when it is time to put in the potato? 

How long can you continue this method of straining and 
renewing the lard ? 

Must it not occasionally be thrown away? 

Is not lard better than anything else to fry doughnuts 
and fishballs in ? p 

Cannot nicely prepared beef-suet be used sometimes 
instead of lard, for frying some things? 

How do you prepare salt cod-fish for making fishballs? 

Do you not find some bones even in what is called boneless 
cod-fish ? 

After it has been picked into fine strips, what do you pour 
over it ? 

Is it ever necessary to put hot water on it more than 
once? 

How do you prepare the potatoes for fishballs? 

How do you get all the water out of the fish before mix- 
ing it with the potatoes? 

Why should the mixture be made as soft as possible with 
milk? 

Why do you let the mashed potato cool? 



102 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

How can you tell whether the seasoning is all right? 

What shape do you make the fish-balls and what do you 
fry them in ? 

When you intend to use a frying-pan how do you prepare 
it ? 

Should it be well heated? 

Do you heat it before or after the butter is put in ? 

When do you put in the butter ? 

Do you let it entirely melt ? 

If the butter is allowed to get brown how will it affect 
what is cooked in it ? 

Can you tell me how to scramble eggs ? 

What is considered to be the best kind of griddle ? 

Do you grease it ? 

If you have a new iron griddle which is rough, what can 
you do to it ? 

Do you heat a griddle before you are ready to cook on 
it? 

When do you grease a griddle, and what is the best way 
of doing it ? 

If there is too much butter or lard how will it affect the 
cakes ? 

Which do you use for greasing a griddle, butter or lard ? 

Which do you use for bread-pans or cake pans ? 

Why is lard considered better for cooking over cold 
mush or potatoes? 

In what do you keep the lard or butter, which is used for 
greasing pans and griddles? 

When baking griddle cakes, how do you take each one 
out of the bowl ? 

Where should the bowl stand ? 

Do you stir the batter as you take up each cake ? 



MANUAL OF COOKERY 



I0 3 



Why must you clean the bottom of the spoon on the edge 
of the bowl as you take it out of the batter ? 

How much batter do you take up at a time ? 

Must not you use a large spoon ? 

Do you pour the batter in the griddle from the point or 
side of the spoon ? 

Should not the cakes be round and of uniform size ? 

Why should you constantly stir in the batter which col- 
lects on the side of the bowl ? 

What kind of bread is used for bread fritters ? 

What do you soak the slices in, and how do you cook 
them ? 

Can you use whole eggs for an omelet, or must you beat the 
whites and yolks separately ? 

After the mixture of eggs and milk is in the pan on the 
fire how do you make it of a light and porous consistency ? 

How do you double it onto itself in the pan? 

Can you tell me what is meant by a "cutting in " mo- 
tion, and how it differs from mixing and stirring? 

What can you tell me about oysters ? 

Should they be entirely fresh? 

When they are to be eaten raw, which do you select ? 

Can you tell me some of the different ways in which oys- 
ters can be cooked ? 

In preparing oysters for cooking, do you strain them ? 

How should you pick them over in order to remove every 
little piece of shell ? 

If oysters are cooked too long, what effect will it have 
on them ? 

How do you prepare oysters for frying, and what do you 
dip them into ? 

Do you drop them directly into the hot fat ? 

What else is generally fried in a wire basket ? 



104 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

Can you put bread crumbs back into the jar after they 
have been moistened ? 

Should invalids be allowed to eat the hard part of an 
oyster? 

When we immerse and cook anything in a kettle of hot 
fat what is the process called ? 

When we cook anything in a saucepan or frying-pan 
with a small quantity of butter or lard, what is the process 
called ? 

When we are cooking cakes on a griddle what is the pro- 
cess called ? 



ON THE MANAGEMENT OF MEATS. 

How should meat look when it is fresh and good ? 

Is not meat more tender after it has been kept for a 
time ? 

Should fresh meat ever be soaked ? 

How should it be cleaned? 

What is the color of the best beef, and which are the best 
ribs for roasting ? 

How do you prepare these for roasting? 

What is the color of the best mutton, and how do you 
cook a shoulder or leg of mutton ? 

Which are the best pieces for roasting, and which are the 
best for stewing? 

What can you tell me about the color of the meat and 
fat of veal ? 

Which are the best pieces for roasting, and which are the 
best for stewing ? 

What kind of meat and fat should pork have? 

Which is considered the most delicate piece for roasting? 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. I05 

Are not the leg, loin, and shoulder very good ? 

Should pork and veal be eaten in hot weather ? 

Should the oven be very hot when meat is first put into 
it? 

Do you keep it at the same heat until the meat is done ? 

How many minutes to the pound do you allow for meat 
which is to be rare ? 

How many minutes should be allowed for meat which is 
to be well done ? 

Should beef and mutton be rare, or well done ? 

How long should veal, pork, and lamb be cooked ? 

How do you prepare a piece of beef which is to be 
roasted ? 

How do you put it into the meat pan ? 

What do you sprinkle and dredge it with while it is in 
the oven ? 

How do you prepare the butter to baste it with, and how 
often do you baste it ? 

If you are making a gravy from the drippings in the pan, 
what must you do first ? 

After every particle of fat is removed, how do you make 
the gravy ? 

If it is not thick enough, what do you add to it ? 

Do you ever strain it ? 

In what other way can gravies be made ? 

Are they not more wholesome ? 

If you have some cold beef and cabbage, how can you 
cook them over ? 

Which beefsteaks are considered the best, and how should 
they be cooked ? 

Which cuts from the round are the best for steaks ? 

How should the steaks from the round be cooked ? 

How are veal, mutton, and pork chops generally cooked ? 



Io6 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

If meat has been washed, can you cook it without dry 
ing it? 

If it is not dried, will it ever brown well ? 

Do you ever pound tender meat ? 

If meat is tough, how can it be made more tender? 

If you are broiling a beefsteak and are obliged to leave it 
for a few minutes, how can you prevent it from burning? 

What kind of fire must you have for broiling ? 

Why do you hold each side of the steak for a moment 
over the fire ? 

What does the length of time required for broiling a steak 
depend on ? 

How many minutes does it take to cook a rare steak, and 
how many to cook one which is to be well done? 

How do you serve a beefsteak, and how do you butter 
it? 

Is it not better to butter it merely on the upper side ? 

How do you prepare meat for making hash, or minced 
meat ? 

After carefully taking out all the bone, gristle, and skin, 
what do you add to it ? 

How much cold potato do you add in proportion to the 
meat ? 

What do you cook the hash in ? 

Is it always necessary to use expensive materials ? 

Should you throw away everything that is left over ? 

What can cold meat bones be used for ? 

What can you do with the fat ? 

How can you use pieces of dry bread or cake ? 

What other things can you think of which can be cooked 
over? 

If a little flour is wasted and thrown away every time 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. I07 

that you are using flour, how much will it amount to in a 
year? 

When you are planning the breakfast and dinner what is 
it well to think of? 

Are there not often things in the house which can be 
used ? 

What is the difference between economy and meanness ? 

Is not economy praiseworthy ? 

Can you ever warm over cold meat ? 

After you have cut off neatly the slices of meat, how do 
you cook the bone ? 

How long before you serve it, do you put the meat in ? 

What is often added to the gravy with cold beef, and 
what is added when cold mutton is used ? 

Can you use cold meat for making pies ? 

Can you make pies from uncooked meat ? 

Why is it better to have the meat at least partially 
cooked ? 

Can you cook over cold meat with any other crust ? 



ON THE MANAGEMENT AND COOKING OF VEGETABLES. 

Can both kinds of potatoes be baked as well as boiled ? 

Do they require a hot oven, and how long a time should 
they be baked ? 

How can you warm over cold white potatoes for break- 
fast ? 

Cannot cold boiled sweet potatoes be sliced and cooked 
over for breakfast ? 

In boiling vegetables, how much salt should be used for 
a quart of water ? 



T08 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

How do you prepare green peas, and how long do you 
boil them ? 

What is done to them after they have boiled, and how 
do you serve them ? 

How do you prepare string beans, and how long should 
they be cooked ? 

Are they drained through a colander? 

How are they served, and what is added to them ? 

How do you prepare asparagus, and how is it cooked ? 

Do you cover it entirely with the boiling water ? 

How should it be served ? 

Do you peel summer squashes or cymlings ? 

Should the seeds be taken out ? 

Do you boil or steam them ? 

How are winter squashes prepared ? 

Should they be cut into large pieces? 

After removing all the seeds and fibres, should not you 
pare the skin from these pieces ? 

Should not winter squash be steamed ? 

How long do you steam it ? 

After it has been mashed thoroughly, what should be 
added to it ? 

If any cold squash is left, how can it be cooked over the 
next day ? 

How do you prepare turnips, and what is the simplest 
way of cooking them ? 

After they are drained and mashed what is added to 
them ? 

Can they be cooked whole ? 

What kind of sauce should be served with them when 
they are cooked whole ? 

Why -should a cabbage be carefully washed? 

How long do you let it remain in cold water ? 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 



9 



How do you cut it up and cook it ? 

When it is boiled by itself, what is added to it, and how 
is it served ? 

When it is boiled with corned beef, how is it served ? 

After washing parsnips and oyster plants, do you peel or 
scrape them ? 

Can you tell me some of the different ways in which they 
can be cooked ? 

Should carrots be scraped or peeled ? 

Are they served whole or in slices ? 

Should beets be washed ? 

Why should they never be peeled or pricked ? 

Are they put into boiling water? 

How long should they be cooked ? 

After they are boiled enough, what do you lay them in 
for a few minutes before you rub off the skin ? 

How do you serve them ? 

If any are left over, how can you prepare them to be 
used the next day ? 

Should not winter beets be soaked over night? 

Do you boil parsnips and other vegetables when you in- 
tend to make them into fritters? 

Are they not sometimes fried m slices ? 

When they are mashed and mixed with batter, what do 
you fry them in ? 

What is a drop batter ? 

Cannot oysters and clams be used for making fritters? 

Are they always chopped, or can they be used whole? 

When apples are used for fritters cannot they be either 
chopped or cut in slices ? 



IO MANUAL OF COOKERY. 



ON SALADS AND THE MANAGEMENT OF UNCOOKED 
VEGETABLES. 

How should uncooked vegetables which are to be used 
for salads, be prepared and freshened ? 

How should they be pulled apart ? 

Can you tell me some of the vegetables which are gen- 
erally used in salads ? 

With what other vegetables are sliced onions sometimes 
used ? 

When onion juice is used as a flavoring, how do you 
press it out ? 

How do you prepare and serve cucumbers ? 

Are not slices or small pieces of hard boiled eggs some- 
times used for garnishing ? 

Can you tell me of anything else which is used as a gar- 
nish? 

When parsley is used as a garnish, how do you break it ? 

When it is used in cooking, how do you prepare it ? 

Should not dried herbs always be rubbed through a sieve ? 

How can you make celery crisp ? 

When it is used in salads, how should it be cut ? 

What kinds of meats can be used for salads ? 

Why should they be cooked the day before they are to be 
used? 

What kind of oil do you use in making salad dressing ? 

Should not most dressings be mixed quickly ? 

What kind of spoon or fork should be used ? 

Can boiled salad dressing and Mayonnaise dressing be 
kept for any length of time ? 

Where should you put them ? 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. Ill 

When you have mixed together the different ingredients 
which are to be used in boiled salad dressing, what do you 
cook them in ? 

Should not the dressing be constantly stirred ? 

When it has thickened enough, what should be done 
with it ? 

Why do you set the saucepan in a pan of cold water ? 

Should not cold potatoes be used for potato salad ? 

How do you cut them up, and how do you put them on 
the dish ? 

What do you sprinkle on each layer of potato ? 

Is not a little of the dressing added also? 

How do you garnish them round the edge ? 

What do you use for garnishing the top ? 

Is not there a more simple dressing which can be used 
with lettuce and other vegetables ? 

Can you tell me what it is made of? 

Can it be kept for a time, or should it be used at once ? 
-Should not the best of materials be used always in mak- 
ing salads ? 



ON THE MANAGEMENT OF CAKES, DESSERTS AND PASTRY. 

Can you make nice cake out of poor materials ? 

What should it be mixed in, and what kind of spoon do 
you generally use ? 

What is a split spoon, and which kind of cake is it used 
for? 

What kind of knife do you use for cake which requires 
a " cutting in " motion 

What is the best knife to use for putting the icing on 
cake ? 



112 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

Should not all the materials be ready on the table before 
you begin to make cake ? 

Ought not it be mixed lightly and made quickly ? 

How hot an oven does cake require ? 

How do you prepare the pans for cake ? 

Are they always buttered ? 

Do not some kinds of cake require a paper in the pan ? 

When a cake is browning too fast at the top, how can you 
prevent it ? 

How can you tell when cake is done ? 

Are all kinds of cake taken from the pans as soon as 
they are done ? 

Can you give me the names of some of those which are 
left in the pan to cool ? 

How do you cool the cakes which are taken out of the 
pan as soon as they are done ? 

Ought not they cool slowly ? 

Will not they be heavy if put suddenly in a draft of cold 
air? 

If there is no paper used in the pan, how do you loosen 
the cake so that it will come out easily ? 

How do you cream butter ? 

In creaming butter and sugar together, which do you 
cream first ? 

If the batter or dough is too stiff, what should you add ? 

If it is not stiff enough, what should you add ? 

Can you tell me how the various pans which are used for 
cake differ from each other ? 

In making plain icing, which part of the egg is used ? 

What is added to it ? 

Do you make and beat icing in the same way in which 
you would make a meringue ? 

Do you flavor icing ? 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. II3 

Are not the juices of fresh fruit much better for flavoring 
than even the best extracts are ? 

Can you tell me some of the flavorings which are most 
commonly used ? 

Can you use one flavoring in the cake, and another in 
the icing ? 

Should lemon and extract of almond ever be used 
together ? 

When the icing is beaten to a smooth, stiff paste, how do 
you put it on the cake ? 

Should not cake be allowed to cool somewhat before the 
icing is put on ? 

Cannot some cakes be iced while they are quite warm, 
while others should be> almost cold before the icing is put 
on ? 

If light, delicate cakes were iced while very warm, what 
effect would it have ? 

After the icing has been put on, will it harden if the cake 
is left in a warm place ? 

Is it possible to give recipes which can always be exactly 
followed ? 

Why cannot they be given ? 

Is flour always the same ? 

Is it not affected by a damp atmosphere ? 

Why would a difference in the size of the eggs which 
are used make a difference in the cake ? 

Are seasonings and flavorings always of the same strength ? 

How should you make the dough of the right consistency, 
if it is too stiff, even if made exactly by the recipe? 

When the oven is to be used, how should the fire be pre- 
pared for it ? 

How long beforehand should it be cleared and have the 
fresh coal put on ? 



114 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

Should not coal enough be put on at first to last through 
the whole time ot baking ? 

If it is absolutely necessary to add some, how should it 
be done? 

Will any oven bake well directly after fresh coal has 
been put on the fire ? 

After the baking is finished, what should be done to the 
fire? 

Should wood ever be put on top of coal ? 

What effect will it have ? 

Cannot a fire and an oven be managed so as to give no 
trouble ? 

Why is it well to make gold and silver cake at the same 
time ? 

If both are to be used at once, in what kind of pans is 
it well to bake them ? 

Should not the batter for the silver cake be made rather 
stiff? 

Is it well to beat the whites of the eggs very stiff for silver 
cake? 

If eggs are beaten too long or too stiff, will not it cause 
a little dryness in the consistency of cake? 

In rolling and cutting ginger-snaps, why must you cut all 
that you can from each rolling of the dough ? 

What should their color be when they are baked ? 

What should bread be kept in, and what should cake be 
kept in ? 

Can you shut them up tight in a box while they are 
warm? 

If bread and cake are cooled too rapidly, how will it 
affect them ? 

What should the pieces of clean bread be kept in ? 

What can they be used for ? 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 



JI 5 



How do you prepare bread crumbs ? 

What should they be kept in, and what are they used for ? 

Why should the tin moulds for desserts be kept very 
bright and clean ? 

What should be done to a pudding cloth before the pud- 
ding is put into it? 

Why should the cloth be left a little loose ? 

Is the string left loose also ? 

Why should the string be tied very tight ? 

Should the water be kept boiling until the pudding is 
done? 

Should not puddings be cooked as soon as they are 
mixed ? 

Why does it particularly hurt them to stand when there 
is dried fruit in them ? 

How should dried currants be prepared ? 

Should not raisins always be seeded before they are used 
for cake or desserts ? 

What do y.ou dredge dried fruits with ? 

How can you take Blanc Mange, jellies and ice-cream 
easily from the moulds ? 

What can be added to a bread pudding if you wish to 
make it richer than you usually make it ? 

How do you make cold sauce for puddings ? 

How do you prepare the butter and sugar for hot sauce ? 

After beating them together, what do you pour onto 
them ? 

What flavorings are generally used in hot sauces? 

Should not the materials which are used in cooking 
always be of the best quality ? 

When you are stirring batter or anything else in a bowl, 
why is it important to mix in constantly all of it which 
remains on the side of the bowl ? 



Il6 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

If this is not done, will not the batter be unequally 
mixed, and often have little lumps in it? 

If batter is poured from one bowl to another what should 
you be careful to do ? 

Should a metal spoon be used for measuring acids? 

Should it be used for mixing anything which has acid in 
it? 

Is it well to leave a spoon standing in anything which 
you are mixing or cooking ? 

On vhat should you lay the spoon ? 

How can you tell whether a dish is properly seasoned or 
flavored ? 

In what way can you taste it neatly and nicely ? 

What is better than a spoon for beating up a thin batter ? 

Should batter be left standing after it is mixed? 

Can the yolks or whites of eggs be kept good for a day 
or two, if there are any left unused ? 

Will the oven bake well if there is a cover off of the 
stove ? 

If the meat for dinner is to be broiled over the fire, what 
kind of desserts is it best to have? 

How do you scald cornmeal? 

What is the difference between custard and custard sauce ? 

How can you make a nice dessert out of a dry sponge 
cake? 

How should rice be prepared for use ? 

Is it used only as a vegetable ? 

What desserts or breakfast dishes can be made from it ? 

If you are cooking over cold rice, how do you soften it ? 

Would not the puddings or cakes otherwise be full of 
lumps ? 

What are sago and tapioca used for, and how must they 
be prepared ? 



MANUAL OF COOKERY 



117 



How many kinds of tapioca are there? 

When should tapioca be put in soak ? 

How long should sago be soaked? 

If tapioca is to be cooked for a late dinner, cannot it be 
put in soak in the morning? 

Cannot very nice baked puddings be made from rice, 
tapioca or sago ? 

How do you prepare the apples for an apple and tapioca 
pudding? 

How should sweet apples be cooked ? ^ 

Why are sour apples always used for puddings, pies, and 
sauces? 

Can you mention the names of the apples which are 



generally used for cooking? 



Which do you use for making apple pies? 

What is paste made of? 

Is not butter more wholesome than lard ? 

Which will make the paste tender, and which will make 
it flaky ? 

How can you freshen butter which is too salt ? 

Should not paste be made quickly and in a cold place? 

Should more flour be added if the dough becomes soft 
from being worked ? 

If flour is constantly added, will not the paste be tough 
and heavy ? 

How can you make the dough stiff and hard without 
using flour ? 

If you are using both butter and lard, which is worked 
into the flour first ? 

How do you rub butter or lard into flour ? 

After the dough is mixed how do you roll it ? 

Should the dough for the under paste be stretched tightly 
over the pie plate ? 



Il8 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

Why should it be lifted once or twice in laying it on ? 

Why should the upper crust always be pricked with a 
fork ? 

How can you prevent the juice from running out of a 
pie ? 

How does rich- paste differ from plain paste ? 

Cannot this same paste be used also for meat pies ? 



ON THE MANAGEMENT AND COOKING OF BREAKFAST DISHES. 

Should not coffee, tea, cocoa, and chocolate be made 
just before they are to be served ? 

If they are boiled or steeped too long, how will it affect 
them ? 

Should not the water which is used for making tea and 
coffee be actually boiling? 

Should water which has been boiling for an hour or two 
be used for tea or coffee ? 

Why is it unfit for use ? 

Why is it very important that coffee-pots and tea-pots 
should be kept thoroughly clean ? 

Should tea be made in a tin tea-pot ? 

If a silver tea-pot is used, should it ever be put on or 
near the stove ? 

What should coffee and tea be kept in ? 

Why should coffee which is already roasted be bought 
in small quantities? 

Can you tell me how to roast coffee in an oven ? 

How hot should the oven be ? 

What do you stir it with? 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. II9 

Can you make good coffee from coffee beans which have 
been unequally roasted ? 

If they are burnt, how will the coffee taste? 

Is not it better to use always freshly ground coffee? 

Can you tell me the names of some of the different kinds 
of coffee? 

In what proportion are Java and Mocha coffees sometiires 
mixed ? 

Is not the coffee very nice which is made from this mix- 
ture? 

How much coffee and how much egg shell is allowed for 
every cupful of water? 

After the coffee-pot is scalded, what do you put into it 
first? 

How much cold water is put in with the coffee ? 

What do you add next ? 

After pouring on the boiling water, how long should the 
coffee boil? 

How* do you clear the grounds from the spout of the 
coffee-pot ? 

How can you make stronger coffee if it is desired? 

Can you tell me how drip coffee is made ? 

After scalding the tea-pot how much tea do you put in ? 

Do you pour on all the boiling water at once ? 

How is English breakfast tea made? 

Is it well to drink very strong tea or coffee, or to drink 
them too often ? 

How many kinds of cornmeal are there? 

Will you tell me some of the dishes which can be made 
with cornmeal ? 

When sugar, salt, soda, or any other powders are used 
in cooking, how do you free them from lumps? 



120 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

How much cream of tartar is used with one teaspoonful 
of soda? 

How much flour is used with this quantity of soda and 
cream of tartar ? 

If soda is used with sour milk, how much of it is required, 
and how do you dissolve it ? 

If it is not used with sour milk, how do you dissolve it ? 

Why is it better to dissolve it ? 

How much baking powder is required for a pint of flour? 

Why are the salt and the baking powder generally sifted 
in with the flour ? 

When soda or baking powder are used, should not the 
batter be quickly mixed and baked ? 

Will not batter become heavy if it is not cooked as soon 
as it is mixed ? 

In putting ingredients together how should the flour and 
milk be added ? 

If they were put in carelessly and quickly, what effect 
would it have ? 

If a small quantity of flour is used for thickening sauces 
or gravies, or anything else, what should it be mixed with 
before it is put in ? 

When used for gravies is it better to mix it with water 
or with melted butter ? 

If butter is melted over too hot a fire, or is kept too long 
on the stove, how will it affect it ? 

How should it be melted ? 

How can butter be softened a little without melting it ? 

Can you tell me how oatmeal should be cooked ? 

How long should steamed oatmeal be boiled ? 

What should oatmeal be boiled in ? 

What is graham meal used for ? 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 121 

Is not it much better to use the various kinds of meal 
sometimes in our food, instead of using nothing but white 
flour? 

Why should tepid water or milk be used always with 
yeast ? 

How would hot water or milk affect it ? 

Can you tell me how eggs should be boiled ? 

How long a time is required to cook eggs which are to be 
very soft ? 

How many minutes will it take to cook them if the whites 
are to be firmly set ? 

How long are hard-boiled eggs generally boiled? 

Will not they be more wholesome if they are cooked half 
an hour ? 

Can you tell me some of the breakfast dishes which can 
be made from bread which has become a little dry ? 

How do you prepare the bread for making bread griddle 
cakes ? 

What are waffles baked in ? 

Why is it important that the waffle-iro'n should be per- 
fectly clean ? 

How do you prepare the waffle-iron for baking waffles ? 

How much batter should be put in at a time ? 

After putting in the batter, why is it best to wait until 
it has had time to stiffen a little, before turning the waffle- 
iron ? 

If it were turned while the batter is soft, would not this 
fall and become heavy ? 

If waffles and Sally Lunns are to be used at supper, what 
should they be sprinkled with ? 

How can the recipe for Sally Lunns be changed and used 
for making breakfast muffins? 



122 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

Can you tell me what short cake is made of? 

How do you roll and bake it when it is to be used for 
breakfast ? 

How do you bake it when it is to be used for a strawberry 
or fruit short cake ? 

When you are kneading dough on a board, why should 
the little pieces be constantly gathered in ? 

Can you tell me how cornmeal mush should be made? 

If there is any left over how can you cook it for break- 
fast the next day ? 

If too much butter and milk are used in cooking, what 
effect will it have ? 

If you wish to succeed in cooking, what must you pay 
attention to? 



ON THE MANAGEMENT AND COOKING OB' FISH, POULTRY, 
AND SALT MEATS. 

Why should fish be selected with great care? 

How can you tell whether a fish is fresh ? 

How do you prepare them before they are cooked, and 
where should they be kept ? 

Can you tell me some of the different ways in which fish 
may be cooked ? 

How are large and medium sized fish generally cooked ? 

How are small fish generally cooked ? 

If any cold fish is left over, how can you cook it nicely 
for breakfast the next day ? 

Can you tell me how to boil a fish ? 

Why shoHld it be wrapped in a cloth ? 

Can you tell me which slice of a salmon is the best piece 
to boil? 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 



2 3 



What part of a cod is the best piece to boil ? 

In serving boiled fish what must you be very careful to 
do? 

What kind of sauce is generally served with boiled fish ? 

Can you tell me how to cook a small fish in a frying 
pan ? 

How should a large fish be fried ? 

How do you prepare a fish for broiling ? 

Which side should be held first to the fire ?. 

Should not fish which are to be fried or broiled, be thor- 
oughly dried after they have been washed ? 

Why do large fish require a more moderate fire than 
small ones? 

How should poultry look when they are healthy and 
good? 

How should they be killed ? 

How long a time should they be kept before they are 
cooked ? 

If you are buying those which have been killed, how can 
you tell whether they are tender and fresh ? 

If a turkey or chicken is to be boned, why should you 
select one which has not been scalded ? 

After the feathers are pulled out, how do you remove the 
pin feathers ? 

Can you tell me how a turkey or chicken should be 
cleaned and prepared for cooking ? 

What should be done with the liver, neck, heart and giz- 
zard? 

What are these used for ? 

After the liver has been boiled how do you prepare it for 
making the gravy ? 

How should the gizzard be served ? 



124 MANUAL OF COOKERY. 

Should hams, tongues and corned beef be put on in hot 
or cold water ? 

Why should they always be boiled slowly and gently ? 

What effect would hard boiling have on them ? 

If corned beef is to be served cold, how do you press it ? 

Should not a ham be pat in soak overnight? 

After it has been boiled enough and has partly cooled, 
what should be done to it ? 

What can a cold ham bone be used for ? 

What should be trimmed off of slices of ham which are 
to be fried or broiled ? 

How can you prepare a nice dish for luncheon or break- 
fast from what is left of a cold ham, or from the roots of a 
tongue ? 



ON THE PREPARATION OF BEEF-TEA AND A FEW DISHES FOR 
THE SICK. 

Why cannot any fixed rules be given in regard to food 
and diet? 

What general rule can be given however in regard to the 
relation between well cooked food and good health ? 

Is not cooking a distinct art by itself? 

What kind of food should be given to persons who are 
sick? 

How do you prepare beef-essence and how strong is it ? 

What is the largest quantity of it which should be given 
at a time? 

What effect will a half teaspoonful of it given every hour 
sometimes have on a very sick person ? 

How is the beef prepared for making beef-tea? 

What should be used for cutting it up ? 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. 



"5 



Why should not it be chopped in a tray ? 

Can you tell me a good rule for giving beef-tea ? 

Why is it important to give sick persons some nourish- 
ment in the night ? 

In making milk porridge how can you add the flour to 
the milk smoothly and without lumps ? 

Can you tell ire some of the different kinds of gruel 
which may be given to those who arc sick ? 

Are there not many delicate dishes which can be prepared 
for them and for convalescents? 

While it is very important that they should be kept well 
nourished, should we not be careful also not to give them 
too much ? 



ON COOKING UTENSILS AND THE CLEANING AND WASHING 
OF DISHES. 

What should the motto be for every kitchen and pantry? 

Should not all dishes and cooking utensils be kept thor- 
oughly clean and bright ? 

What should such materials as flour, rice, and sugar be 
kept in ? 

Should cornstarch, oatmeal and other materials which 
come in packages be left in the paper ? 

What should salt be kept in, and why should it never be 
kept in anything which is made of tin? 

Should not every box and jar be properly labelled ? 

Will not this save time and trouble, and also prevent 
perhaps some dangerous mistake ? 

Why should there be a tin match box in every kitchen? 

Why should a refrigerator be kept clean and well aired ? 



126 MANUAL OB" COOKERY. 

Should anything hot or even warm ever be put into a 
refrigerator ? 

How will fruit and vegetables affect butter and milk, if 
they are kept near each other or shut up together? 

How should bread and cake boxes be aired? 

How do acids act on tin, zinc, and some kinds of glazed 
earthen ware ? 

Why are copper utensils dangerous unless they are kept 
perfectly clean ? 

Are not bowls better than tin pans for mixing purposes? 

Why is it convenient to have a piece of zinc on the table? 

What kind of bowls should be kept purposely for milk ? 

How many different kinds of towels should there be in a 
kitchen ? 

What other cloth's are needed beside dish cloths? 

Can you tell me the names of some of the cooking uten- 
sils which are required in every kitchen ? 

How many dredging boxes should there be, and what are 
they used for ? 

Should they be of the same color ? 

Can you tell me some of the different kinds of knives 
and spoons which are required ? 

Why should there be one or two coffee cups in a kitchen ? 

How much does a coffee cup hold ? 

Can you recite the tables in the twelfth lesson ? 

If iron kettles or pans have been neglected, what can you 
clean them with ? 

What do you use for cleaning tin and wooden ware ? 

How should wood always be rubbed ? 

How do you clean a bread board ? 

Why is it well to put a little tepid water into kettles and 



MANUAL OF COOKERY. I 27 

saucepans as soon as you have taken out what has been 
cooked in them ? 

Why is it well to keep an old pan or dish near the sink? 
Is not it easier to put any little garbage there may be 
into that, and carry it all out at once than it is to keep 
running out to the garbage bucket? 

Should not both of them be kept very clean ? 
Does not garbage become unwholesome if it is allowed 
to stand long? 

Where do you wash the iron and tin kettles and pans? 
Where should the nicer dishes be washed ? 
Should not they first be gathered neatly together and 
scraped ? 

Can you wash dishes clean in cold or greasy water ? 
Should not it always be hot and clean ? 
How many waters do you wash them in ? 
Why should each dish be stood separately after it is wiped ? 
Should not the knives and forks and spoons be laid 
separately also after they are wiped ? 

Can you wipe dishes nicely with damp towels? 
If you are washing nice parlor dishes, which should be 
washed first ? 

Why should the silver and glass be washed first ? 
Which dishes should be washed next? 
Why should the cups and saucers be washed before the 
plates? 

If there are glasses which have been used for eggs, why 
do you put cold water into them, and let them stand for a 
time before washing them ? 

If a glass dish or tumbler is dipped into hot water in 
such a way that both the inside and outside are wet at the 
same time, will not it prevent the heat from cracking it? 



128 MANUAL OF COOKERY, 



NOTES FOR THE TEACHER. 



The directions for cleaning and washing dishes were not 
given in the lessons, because the teacher is expected to 
show the pupils how to do this, and also to watch them and 
see that everything is properly washed and dried, and put 
into its right place after each lesson. One girl should be 
selected to clear off the table, another one to wash the 
dishes, and another to wipe them and put them away. 

The teacher will find that there are only thirty-three 
lessons instead of thirty-four, as a mistake occured in the 
numbering of them which was not discovered until it was 
too late to correct it. The lessons are all in the right order, 
and if they are dictated, it will be easy to correct it. In 
the recipe for mock apple pie the quantity of sugar which 
should be used (two-thirds of a cupful) was unintentionally 
omitted. As tablespoon ful, teaspooqful, and some other 
words are generally abbreviated now, it may be well to say 
that I have preferred to use the whole word, because the 
abbreviations so nearly resemble each other, that a serious 
mistake might easily occur, and also because it requires 
quite an effort of thought to understand the abbreviations, 
which the child might as well be spared. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



014 485 856 6 | 



