A 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 

-^ 

®^ap. dnp^rigi^t !f o. 

Shelf ..0..H 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



PRICE 25 CENTS. 



No, 35. 



ililiiiiiiiiilili'liiii^iilililit 

"THE PRESS" PRIZE RECIPES, \ 

-IFOR- 

Meats, Vegetables, Bread ; 
and Pastry. 



THE HHOl VOI^I^ PI^ESS, 

DAILY AJSrn SVNJDAY. 



-♦♦^- 



aiXLd. lEjQoxi-O-TnQ-ioa;!-. 

J. S. OGILVIE, PUBLISHER, 57 Rose St., New York; 182 Wabash Ave., Chicago. 




THE RED COVER SERIES, No. 38. Issued Quarterly. Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year. Junt, 1889. 
Copyright 1889. Entered at xNew Yorli Post-Office as Second-class matter. 







«^e^\e^\ 



Dai/y, Sunday, Weekly. 



Largest Circulation of any Re- 
publican paper in America. 



Growing faster than any other 
newspaper in the world. 



Everybody reads it ; everybody 
likes it. 



THE "PRESS" 

PRIZE RECIPES 



FOR 



MEATS, VEGETABLES, BREAD, AND PASTRY. 



Being a Collection of Recipes furnished by the Lady 

Readers of the "Press," competing for the Five 

Prices of One Do^en Solid Silver Spoons 

each, offered for the Best Methods 

of Preparing Staple Dishes, 



THE RECIPES ARE PRACTICAL Aj^D ECONOMICAL. 



Copyright, 1889. by J. S. Ogilvie,.^:>,^>'''J^^^^^ 

f AP- 201889/1\ n 






J. S. OGILVIE, PUBLISHER, 

57 Rose Street, New York; 182 Wabash Avenue, Chicago. 



One hundred ^^^^ 
PRIZE DINNERS; 



OR, 

HOW TO PROVIDE A GOOD DINNER FOR 
FOUR PERSONS FOR ONE DOLLAR. 

Compiled from the columns of the New York "Press/ 
the publishers of which offered a Pri^e of 
p 00.00 for the best Bill of 
Fare offered. 



AN INVALUABLE GUIDE FOR PERSONS OF MODERATE INCOME 
TO PROVIDE GOOD FOOD AT A LOW PRICE. 



This valuable book, which every lady should have, 
will be sent by mail, post-paid, on receipt of 25 cts. 
Lady Agents Wanted to Sell it. 

A copy can be sold in every house. Address orders 
and applications for agency to 

J. S. OGILVIE, Publisher, 

67 Rose Street New York. 



CONTENTS. 



BREAD. 

PAGE 

Old-fashioned Yankee Bread 7 

Bread 7, 8, 9, 10 

Bath Buns 11 

Split Biscuits 11 

Rolls .^ 12 

Tea Biscuit 13 

Snowball Biscuits 14 

Parker House Rolls 14 

French Rolls , 15 

CAKE, PASTRY, AND PUDDINGS. 

Boston Tea or Coffee Cakes 12 

Homemade Crullers 13 

Corn Cake 13 

Buckwheat Griddle Cakes 14 

Indian Pudding 44 

White Layer Cake 45 

French Puff Paste 47 

English Walnut Cake 48 

Ribbon Cake 48 

Cream Puffs 49 

Neapolitan Cake 49 

Angel Cake 50 

Fig Cake 50 

Lockport Cake ... 51 

Saratoga Cake 51 

Cream Sponge Cake 52 

A Pyramid of Tarts 52 

Cinderellas 53 

Scotch Cake 53 

Loaf Cake 53 

Lemon Jelly Cake 54 

Almond Sponge Cake 54 

Royal Fruit Cake 55 

Banana Bake 56 

French Cream Cake 56 

Sunshine Cake 57 

Silver Cake 57 

Cookies 57 



CONTENTS, 



fAGfi 

Orange Cream Sponge Cake * 58 

Goat Island Cakes 58 

Brovvn-stone-front Cake 59 

Lady-finger Pudding. , 59 

Tapioca Pudding 60 

Railway Pudding 60 

Banana Cream Pudding 61 

Pearl Pudding 61 

Apple Dumpling Pie 62 

Gypsy Pudding 62 

Gem Pudding , 62 

Apple Charlotte 63 

Suet Pudding 63 

Vanilla Cream Pudding 64 

Chocolate Pudding 64 

Roman Cream 64 

Fruit Pudding 65 

Prune Whip 65 

Coffee Blanc Mange 65 

Chocolate Blanc Mange 66 

Yankee Pie 66 

Green Apple Pie 67 

Mince Pie 68 

Lemon Meringue Pie 70 

Plain Lemon Pie 70 

Squash Pie 70 

Pumpkin Pic , 71 

Cornstarch Pie , 71 

Apple Pie 72 

Custard Pie 72 

Spanish Cream 72 

Strawberry Shortcake 73 

Old-fashioned Ginger Bread 74 

Apple Fritters 74 

Rice Pudding 74 

Cream Pie , . . . 90 

EGGS. 

Omelet 79 

Ham Omelet 80 

Egg Salad 80 

Fritters = t 80 

FISH. 

Fried Oysters 75 

Oysters and Macaroni 75 



CONTENTS. O 

PAGE 

Salmon Cutlets En Papillotte 77 

Unrivalled Clam Fritters 7° 

How to Broil Shad 7o 

Salmon Croquettes 7^ 

Baked Red Snapper 79 

Codfish Balls 79 

Clam Fritters 9^ 

MEATS. 

Broiling Steaks and Chops - I5 

Broiled Tripe 1° 

Lamb Chops ^7 

Broiling a Steak ^7 

Poupic Cutlets 2° 

Veal Cutlets, Breaded .♦•••• 2i 

Roast Beef 2i, 22 

Baked Ham 23 

Roasting Meat • ^4 

Roast Ham, Wine Sauce, Tennessee Style 25 

Saddle of Venison 26 

Roast Turkey ■ ^7 

How to Boil Beef 29 

Boiled Corned Beef 30 

Pork Cake 30 

Baked Mutton 3i 

Veal Pate 3i 

Veal Potpourri 3i 

Sweetbreads 32 

Fricandeau of Veal 32 

Haricot - 32 

Smoked Beef and Eggs 33 

English Beefsteak Pudding 33 

Spiced Beef 34 

Chicken Fricassee 34 

Chicken Pie 35, 9^ 

Chicken Croquettes 3^ 

Jellied Chicken 30 

Venison Pastry 3o 

Lamb Chops (Broiled) °5 

Roast Beef °5 

Roast Mutton with Tomatoes °" 

Broiled Steak ^7 



Boiled Ham 



88 



Mutton Chops (Broiled) ^7 



6 CONTENTS. 

PAGF 

SOUPS. 

Tomato Soup 42 

White Soup 76 

Clam Chowder 76 

Ox Tail Soup 76 

Corned Beef Soup 77 

VEGETABLES. 

Baked Stuffed Tomatoes 37 

Potato Cake , 38 

Potato Croquettes 38 

Potato Puff 38 

Potato Salad 39 

Baked Turnips 39, 88 

Succotash 39 

Caulifiovver 40 

Asparagus , 40 

Boiled Asparagus 41 

Delicious Cabbage , 41 

Cabbage Balls 41 

Steamed Cabbage 42 

Cabbage Salad 42 

Baked Tomatoes 42 

Tomato Catsup 43 

Baked Macaroni 43 

Lettuce Salad , 44 

Cranberry Sauce 44 

Vegetable Salad 45 

To Cook Asparagus 86 

Fried Squash 89 

Stuffed Cabbage 89 

Baked Onions go 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Corn Starch Patties 81 

Old-fashioned Waffles 81 

English Banbury Cakes 82 

Peach Troja 82 

Sherry Jelly 82 

Mince Meat 83 

Tongue or Ham Sandwiches 83 

Mayonnaise Sauce 84 

Welsh Rarebit 84 

Quails Roasted with Ham 84 

Caramel or Burnt Sugar. , , .,,..,.,.,,,,,,,,,-,.,,.,,,, £5 



THE 'TRESS'' PRIZE RECIPES, 



I. OLD-FASHIONED YANKEE BREAD. 

Sift two pounds of best flour on bread tray. 
Make a hollow place in the center and drop in a 
piece of lard the size of a tablespoon. Dissolve one 
yeast cake in a little warm water and put that in 
with the lard, and one teaspoonful of salt and half 
a tea-cup of sugar. Then mix it with lukewarm 
water until it is thick, and turn it out on your 
molding-board and mold it till it shines and does 
not stick to the board. You cannot mold it too 
much. Then put it back on the tray. Cover it 
with a cloth, not very heavy, and put it in a warm 
place till morning. When it becomes very light 
put it on the board again and mold it down till it 
is solid. Set it in a warm place, and as soon as it 
rises nicely mold it again, and put it in buttered 
pans and bake immediately. This takes a little 
time, but you will have good bread. 

2. BREAD. 

It is impossible to make good bread without 
good»yeast^ %n article hard to be got, As a pre- 



8 THE "press" PEIZE RECIPES. 

liminary to " directions for bread making" here is 
a recipe which has been used since 1875, ^"^ never 
known to fail in producing good yeast if properly 
observed. 

Yeast. — Put a small handful of hops to steep in 
a scant pint of boiling water. Grate one teacup- 
ful of raw potatoes, put it into a pitcher or bowl ; 
upon this put one half cup of granulated sugar, 
the same of salt, one teaspoonful of ground ginger, 
and two quarts of boiling water ; then strain and 
add the hot water, a coffee-cup full, boiling hot. 
Stir all together, and when lukewarm add one and 
a half dissolved hard yeast cakes, which must be 
sweet, or the yeast will be spoiled. After twelve 
hours, if kept in a warm place, the mixture will rise 
and be covered with a thick froth. It must then 
be put into glass jars, such as are used for fruit, 
and kept sealed from the air. If placed in refrig- 
erator this will be sweet three weeks. Enough 
should be reserved for raising next time. Half of 
the quantities above are sufficient for the use of a 
small family. 

Now for the bread. First, the sponge. Use one 
boiled potato, mashed through a colander, one pint 
lukewarm water, one small teacupful yeast, and 
flour sufficient to make stiff batter ; beat hard for 
a few minutes and set in warm place to rise. In 
the Spring of the year it is well to make this sponge 
about 2 P.M. It will then be light about 9 p.m., 
when the bread may be mixed and be ready for 
baking early in the morning. 

To make the dough, put about three quarts of 



THE "press" PEIZE EECIPES. 9 

flour in bread-pan, make a hole in the center, put 
therein for shortening a lump (of the size of hen's 
egg) of lard, butter or (what is better) roast-beef 
drippings ; pour thereon slowly a cupful boiling 
water, all the while mashing it with a wooden 
spoon ; then add a pint of milk and a tablespoon- 
ful of salt, and lastly your light sponge. Stir all 
with spoon till too thick to be stirred longer, then 
knead with hands, the while adding flour to make 
the dough (if Plant's flour is used the dough must 
be stiff ; if new process flour, not stiff) ; then put 
the mass on bread board and work it for at least 
twenty minutes, slashing it meanwhile with a sharp 
knife. Now put in bread-pan and leave all night 
in a warm place. In the morning mold into loaves 
and place in bread-pans ; when light bake, which 
will require from three-quarters to an hour, accord- 
ing to heat of oven. 

If hot biscuit are wished for breakfast, take as 
much light dough as required, work into it a small 
piece of shortening, make into rolls or forms, brush 
the tops with melted butter, and place in a warm- 
ing oven a few minutes to hasten the raising pro- 
cess, then bake. 

3. BREAD. 

About 5 o'clock in the afternoon take a pint of 
warm milk with a little salt in it, stir flour enough 
to make a thin sponge and add two thirds cup of 
yeast ; let stand in a warm place until about 9.30 
or a little later, then dissolve quarter teaspoon of 
sod^ in a little warm water and stir in, adding flour 



10 THE "PEESS" PRIZE EECIPES. 

enough to make a solid loaf; do not mix in any- 
more flour than necessary to keep from sticking, as 
there is danger of getting too stiff ; knead it about 
fifteen minutes, then cover well and set near the 
fire on the table until morning. In the morning 
open it with your hands and mix just enough to 
get the gas out, put it into a loaf, let stand in a 
warm place ; when light bake in a moderate oven 
from thirty to forty minutes, according to size of 
loaf and heat of oven. Be careful and not let it 
get too light. 

4. BREAD. 

Take seven pounds of flour and sieve it in a large 
wooden or earthenware bowl. Take a piece of 
butter, size of an egg, half a teacupful of sugar, a 
large handful of salt, and mix it through the flour, 
dry. Take one yeast cake and break it up in a tea- 
cupful of lukewarm water and let it dissolve ; pour 
it into the flour. Take a quart and a pint of luke- 
warm water (for winter, cold for summer) and pour 
it in the flour, mixing as poured in. Mix until not 
too stiff. If necessary a little more flour or water 
is used. Cover up with bread cloth and set in 
warm place to rise. Mix at 10 o'clock p.m., and in 
the morning it is ready to mold. Take a little 
flour on a pastry board and mold it up and put in 
greased pans. Then set in a warm place for half 
an hour or more for it to rise again. Bake one 
hour in a slow oven. When done set it to cool, but 
don't cover it up, as the moisture wants to come 
out, This makes four good sized loaves of bread. 



THE 



PRIZE RECIPES. 11 



5. BATH BUNS. 

Four large coffee cups of sifted flour, four table- 
spoons powdered sugar and one teaspoon salt, all 
mixed together. One compressed yeast cake, dis- 
solved in a little warm water; two eggs well beaten; 
one coffee cup warm milk, the same of warm water; 
stir all the liquids together, with butter size of an 
English walnut dissolved in them; them mix into 
your flour as for ordinary bread. For 6 o'clock 
Sunday tea mix at 8 a.m.; let rise till 3 p.m. Then 
do not knead, but pick off pieces size of a large 
egg and roll round between the palms of your 
hands. Put in a well-greased dripping-pan, an 
inch apart, and let rise again till 5 p.m.; then bake 
in a quick hot oven. Just before they are done 
brush with molasses and water, and serve with 
powdered sugar sprinkled over them. A very good 
recipe for hot cross buns. 

6. SPLIT BISCUITS. 
These are made for tea when bread has been 
baked in the morning. Take one pint of risen 
dough, and add to it one scant pint of milk, two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, four of sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, and two well beaten eggs. Mix 
all the ingredients in a bowl, cutting the dough 
with a knife. After the mixing add a generous 
quart of flour. Knead the dough well and let it 
stand in a warm place for six hours, when it should 
be a perfect sponge. Work it down well at the end 
of that time. Sprinkle the molding board with 



12 THE 

flour, and, turning the dough upon the board, roll 
it down to the thickness of about one fourth of an 
inch. Dip a biscuit cutter in flour and cut up the 
dough with it. Place half of the cakes in buttered 
pans. Spread a little soft butter on each cake. 
Take fresh cakes from the board and put them on 
top of those already in pans. Cover and set away 
in rather a cool place to rise, and when they are 
about double their original size (it will take about 
two hours) bake in a rather hot oven for half an 
hour. This amount will make two good sized pans 
of biscuits. 

7. ROLLS. 
Measure out two quarts of flour, scald one pint 
of milk, when lukewarm add one half cup of gran- 
ulated sugar, one half cup of yeast, one half tea- 
spoon soda, and butter size of an egg. Mix in flour 
enough to make a sponge, let it raise ten or twelve 
hours. When light knead in the rest of the flour 
and let it raise again till light, then knead about 
ten minutes. Roll out one half inch thick, cut into 
circles the size of a small tea saucer, spread with 
butter, double the buttered surface together, and 
let them rise a few hours. This is not much work, 
but is very delicious. 

8. BOSTON TEA OR COFFEE CAKES. 

One well beaten egg, two tablespoons sugar, one 
cup sweet milk, two cups flour, three teaspoons 
baking powder, one tablespoon melted butter, a 
little salt. Bake in a quick oven in mulRn rings. 



THE *^ press'* prize fiECI^ES. 1^ 

9. TEA BISCUIT. 

One quart flour, three teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, one teaspoonful salt, one tablespoonful 
butter, one pint milk. Sift the flour and baking 
powder together into a mixing bowl; add salt, but- 
ter, and lastly the milk; mix thoroughly and 
quickly with the hands into a soft dough. The 
more quickly this is done the lighter the biscuit 
will be. Flour the hands, break off bits of the 
dough the size you wish, and quickly roll into any 
shape. Bake in a quick oven twenty minutes. 

10. HOME MADE CRULLERS. 

To nine tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar add 
four tablespoonfuls of melted butter. Beat well 
together, then add three well beaten eggs, two 
heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one tea- 
cupful of milk, one teaspoonful of salt, half a small 
grated nutmeg. Mix with flour just stiff enough 
to roll nicely on board. Cut out same as cookies 
with a hole in center. Fry in sweet lard. They 
are nearly perfect. This recipe will make forty 
crullers. Roll in powdered sugar when slightly 
cool. 

II. CORN CAKE. 

Take one cup of corn meal, one cup of flour, one 
and a half teaspoons of baking powder, a half tea- 
spoon of salt, two tablespoons of sugar, sifted three 
times; one tablespoonful of butter, two eggs well 
beaten, a cup and a half of cold water. Have the 



14 THE " PRESS ^^ PRIZE BfiCIPES. 

tin or muffin rings well greased and piping hot. 
Bake in a quick oven. 

12. SNOWBALL BISCUITS. 

To four cups flour add two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, rub it into the flour, sift in four teaspoons- 
ful of baking powder, stir together lightly till 
thoroughly mixed; then add one and a half cups 
of sweet milk, stir all together quickly, roll in a 
ball, with as little handling as possible, roll out 
about one half inch thick and bake in a hot oven. 

13. BUCKWHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES. 
Three cups buckwheat meal, three cups milk, one 
half cake of yeast, one small teaspoonful salt, one 
half teaspoonful soda. Scald the milk, to prevent 
souring; when cool dissolve yeast in it, and stir 
into the meal; mix at night and stand in a warm 
place to rise; in the morning dissolve, add soda 
and beat up the batter thoroughly; fry on very hot 
griddle, but not hot enough to burn the cakes; fry 
in cakes the size of the griddle and butter and 
sugar them in layers, not serving until they are all 
fried, and then cutting as you would a pie, or fry 
in tablespoonfuls and have them served as soon as 
fried. For dressing use maple sugar, shaved fine, 
with or without butter, or butter and powdered 
sugar. 

14. PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

One quart of flour, a pinch of salt, one pint of 
milk, one and one half cups of butter, one third 



I'HE **PEESS*' PRIZE RECIPES. 15 

cup of sugar, one forth of a yeast cake. Make 
over night. In the morning roll out about one 
half inch thick and cut out round. Butter one 
half and the other half fold over the buttered part 
Place them in a baking tin and allow them to rise 
all day. Bake about fifteen minutes for tea. 

15. FRENCH ROLLS. 

Take two quarts of flour and rub half a cup of 
butter well into it. Warm a pint and a half of 
milk (some flour will take more) and dissolve a 
cake of compressed yeast and three tablespoonfuls 
of sugar in it, with two eggs well beaten, and large 
teaspoon of salt. Make this up into a loaf and 
let it rise. Make it about 9 a.m. if you desire the 
rolls at 6 p.m. At 3 p.m. roll out about half an inch 
thick; cut in diamonds; butter each one, and, com- 
mencing at the corners, roll them up. Put into a 
flat pan close together and let rise very light. 
Will bake in half an hour if oven is right. 

16. BROILING STEAKS AND CHOPS. 

The only way to make a beefsteak delicious is to 
broil it, and the only way to get the full benefit of 
it is to take pains in broiling. The first requisite 
is a perfect broiler ; second, a good clear fire, either 
wood or coal; third, a good steak. My way of 
broiling a steak is as follows: I use a cast iron 
broiler, circular in form, convex, with radiators 
three quarters of an inch in height, at regular in- 
tervals, with a raised opening at the top of the 



16 THE "press" prize RECIiPEg. 

cone; a fluted gutter passes around the broiler to 
receive the drip. Now comes the secret. There is 
a tin cover deep enough to not touch the steak, 
with four half-inch holes in the top and a wooden 
knob in the centre to handle it with. Now for the 
steak. It should be just what one can afford and 
never be less than one inch in thickness. I remove 
the bone and the thin skin from the outside of the 
fat, and make little incisions to prevent curling. 
If for four people, with different tastes, I cut in 
four equal parts; now, with a small piece of suet, 
grease the tops of the radiators, lay the steak on in 
its original shape, now place the cover on care- 
fully, remove the stove lid, place the broiler over 
the opening, and proceed to broil to suit the taste 
of each, by raising the cover. I can govern the 
broiling, as a portion can be removed at any time. 
By this way all the rich juices of the meat are re- 
tained. The dish to receive the broiled steak 
should be hot and covered, no salt should be used 
until the steak is removed from the broiler, then a 
liberal amount of butter should be spread on (not 
previously melted, as heat has a tendency to make 
it rancid), and salt to taste and serve hot. The 
art once acquired you will never eat a steak broiled 
any other way. 

17. BROILED TRIPE. 

Cut the tripe in small strips; lay in a large wire 
broiler and cook gently over a moderate fire until 
well browned, turning but once, when it is nearly 



THE 



17 



done; lay it upon a hot plate; give it a good but- 
tering, season with salt and pepper, and serve. 

i8. LAMB CHOPS. 

Lamb will not keep long after it is killed. Be- 
ware of it when the veins, particularly the large 
vein in the neck, is greenish colored. Lamb is 
usually considered tender, simply because it is 
lamb; yet if eaten too soon after killing, it will be 
very tough. Lamb, like all young meats, should 
be thoroughly done, and should not be given to in- 
valids, while a mutton chop will be very nutritious 
and good for them. 

The leg will give the larger chops, but the short 
ribs furnish the daintier ones. See that the butcher 
cuts them of uniform thickness and trims off all 
superfluous fat and skin. Wipe off with a damp 
cloth, scrape the bone clean, take a broad bladed 
knife and " pat" them flat. Rub the concave bars of 
the broiler with a little butter or fat, and heat 
slightly before putting on the chops. Season the 
chops with pepper and salt, dip in melted butter, 
then roll in fine bread crumbs; put on the broiler 
over a fire that is not too bright, as the bread 
crumbs are easily set on fire. Eight minutes should 
cook them, with watching. 

19. BROILING A STEAK. 

One of the most neglected and least understood 
of the duties of the kitchen is the broiling of a 
steak. The veriest greenhorn, newly landed, will 



18 THE 

tell you she " kin fry a shtake aiqual ter inny wan.** 
(Deliver me from the fried steak girl !) But it is a 
fact that not one in fifty of the so called cooks 
know how to cook a steak; and yet there is scarcely 
any article of food so universally eaten — by the 
hurried man of business and by the epicure, whose 
*' sauce to (his) meat is ceremony." 

There is an old recipe for hare soup, which says: 
First catch your hare; quite as important as it is 
to say: First catch your steak. 

If we could think of the beef as standing and 
moving, we could gain a much clearer idea of 
which parts were most tender, which most juicy 
and nutritious. For they are not generally found 
in the same piece. The parts containing the mus- 
cles most used in moving are the most juicy and 
nutritious, but very tough, while the tender parts 
contains very little nutriment. 

The porterhouse is the one generally preferred, 
but it is not an economical steak. It has a deli- 
cious morsel — not the tenderloin — in about the 
middle. The sirloin is most generally used, as it 
contains more lean and less fat and bone, and 
being less expensive is more used for the family. 
The round and rump steaks are usually very lean 
and tough. Supposing you have purchased a tough 
steak, you can make it more tender by placing it 
for three hours in a mixture of salad oil and vine- 
gar, in the proportion of three tablespoonfuls of 
the former to one of the latter. 

Beef should not be too fresh, or almost any part 
of it will be tough. It is important to remember 



THE *'PEESS" PRIZE RECIPES. 19 

also, that steak will not be tender unless cut across 
the grain. There is a part on the top of the loin, 
the fiber of which runs in a different direction from 
the rest of the loin. As steaks are usually cut, this 
is very juicy, but tough.. If this could be cut off 
separately, and then cut across the grain, it makes 
the finest, juiciest, tenderest and most nutritious 
steaks in the whole animal. 

Inferior beef has hard, skinny fat and dark red 
lean. Prime beef has bright red lean, and, when 
pressed by the finger, rises up quickly. 

The steak should be evenly cut, about three 
fourths of an inch thick. If cut any thicker it is 
apt to be brown on the outside while still uncooked 
inside. Do not wash the steak. Take a wet cloth 
and wipe, or rather mop it, but do not pour water 
on it, and do not lay it in water. Whatever cooks 
may urge in favor of "pounding" a steak it is not 
a good thing; it breaks the cells of the meat in 
which the gravy is contained. If there is a tough 
piece on the steak it may be " hacked " a little with 
the back of a kitchen knife, taking care not to 
break the cells of the meat. 

The best broiler is one having concave sides, so 
as to catch the gravy and prevent the fat from 
catching fire and smoking. Heat the broiler, then 
wipe with a clean cloth; just before using rub the 
bars with suet, to prevent them from marking the 
meat. A clear, brisk fire is necessary, but not too 
close to the steak; throw a little salt on the fire, 
place your broiler over until the bars are heated 
through, then put on your steak and watch con- 



20 THE *'PEESS** PElZE RECIPESr 

stantly to keep it from smoking, burning, or catch- 
ing fire, lifting it up when necessary, but not turn- 
ing until the one side is nicely browned; then turn 
to the other side and brown that; turn once more, 
that is, twice for each side. The object is to cook 
the outside as quickly as possible, so as to keep in 
all the juices of the meat. Just before lifting from 
the fire shake pepper and salt lightly over. Have 
the platter hot, dot it with specks of butter. 

A very little carelessness will ruin all your pre- 
vious care; a charred bone, a black burned spot, or 
an underdone one will spoil the effect on both eyes 
and appetite. 

With the right kind of a iire, and an evenly cut 
steak, seven minutes is enough to allow for the 
broiling generally. This should make it evenly 
browned outside, and a rich juicy red within. 
Place the steak on the platter, dot the top with 
butter, and serve hot as possible. My word for it, 
the game will be well worth the candle. 

20. ''POUPIC" CUTLETS. 

Fry to a nice brown one half dozen slices of su- 
gar cured bacon. Remove to a warm platter, add 
a piece of butter to the bacon fat in pan, and place 
same number of veal cutlets neatly trimmed, dipped 
in eggy bread crumbs and finely chopped parsley. 
When done place on dish with slices of bacon al- 
ternate and thin slices of lemon on each cutlet. 
For gravy stew the veal trimmings, adding salt, 
pepper, teaspoon of walnut catsup;, and squeeze of 



THE "press" prize RECIPES. 21 

lemon juice, thicken with flour and butter and pour 
over cutlets. 

21. VEAL CUTLETS— BREADED. 

Have the butcher cut two pounds of cutlets in 
pieces about four inches square, and scarify well on 
one side. Salt and pepper to taste. Roll fine five soda 
crackers. Beat well two eggs, into which dip each 
piece of meat and then into the pulverized cracker. 
Fry slowly in plenty of hot lard until well browned. 
When done remove from pan and put about one 
half teacupful of water in the pan, bring to a boil 
and pour over the meat. 



ROASTING AND BOILING MEATS. 

22. HOW TO PREPARE ROAST BEEF. 

Take about eight pounds of porterhouse roast, 
have your butcher remove the bone and nearly all 
the fat around the tenderloin or fillet, and then tie 
it and fasten with skewers into a circular shape. 
Lard it with the fatty part of bacon cut in thin 
strips. Place in your roasting pan with two on- 
ions cut in quarters, inserting a clove into each 
quarter; add a bay leaf. 

Sprinkle your meat well on all sides with salt 
and pepper, a little thyme, and dredge well with 
flour; add from two to three cupfuls of stock, as it 
makes your gravy richer than using water alone. 

Place in a well-heated oven and baste as often as 



22 THE ^-PEESS" PRIZE RECIPES. 

possible to keep the meat juicy; when well browned 
on top turn bottom side up and brown that also all 
around. 

Allow about two hours for this piece. It will 
be nicely browned and still rare at the heart. 
When done place it on a heated platter and turn 
into a warming oven. Now prepare the gravy. 
Remove all the fat from the contents of the pan. 
Mix in a cup a spoonful of flour, with cold water, 
until smooth. Add to your contents of pan. Place 
on the stove. Add a little salt, and allow to boil 
until smooth and quite a little thick, stirring con- 
stantly. It can then be strained or not, as desired. 
Pour into gravy dish and serve with the meat. 

23. ROAST BEEF. 

Place an old-fashioned iron spider on top of the 
stove, and, when smoking hot, put in the roast, 
which has previously been thoroughly rubbed with 
a damp cloth. Sear one side and turn it over. 
Salt, pepper, and dredge with flour the seared side. 
By this time it will be ready to turn again. Treat 
this side in the same manner. It is now ready to 
roast, and if you choose, can be roasted in the same 
spider. Allow fifteen minutes to the pound. It is 
always an improvement to set a basin of water in 
the oven while roasting meat. The merits of this 
plan of preparing beef over that of the old are ob- 
vious. Searing the meat quickly on both sides 
prevents the escape of the juices, making the meat 
more juicy, nutritious, and palatable. 



THE "press" prize RECIPES. 23 

24. BAKED HAM 

Very few know how delicate and sweet a ham 
can taste unless they have eaten it properly baked. 
They generally class it in their minds with ham 
sandwiches or ham and eggs, and know nothing of 
it in any other forms than these. Take a large 
sweet ham, soak it for two hours in cold water, 
then dry and scrape all the smoke-browned parts 
and wipe it off with a damp cloth. Put on in cold 
water and allow it to come quickly to a boil. Then 
set it back on the range, where it will only simmer. 
Let it boil (very slowly) for two hours; take from 
the fire and allow it to partly cool in the water. 
Place in a baking pan, sprinkle well with flour, and 
baste frequently with a half pint of good sweet 
cider. Cook for one hour longer. Then take it 
from the oven, slip a pointed knife under the skin 
and remove it entire, also the flour crust, turn out 
all of the dripping in the pan. Shake powdered 
sugar over the ham until well covered and return 
to the oven to brown. It is ready for the table, 
and a gravy made of half a pint of fresh cider (that 
with which it was basted is too brown), a table- 
spoonful of the ham drippings, a teaspoonful of 
sugar, just allow the gravy to heat. Served in a 
sauce boat. To be extremely delicious pour two 
glasses of champagne over before covering with 
sugar. Some may not like the sweet taste of the 
sugar. If so, cover with grated bread crumbs and 
place in the oven; or a delicious champagne sauce 
is made by this recipe. Mix thoroughly a table- 



u 



spoonful of butter with one of flour. Set on the 
fire and stir until a rosy brown, add half a pint of 
hot strong beef stock. Stir slowly, and after the 
sauce has boiled up once, season well with pepper 
and salt, and strain; then add half a cupful of 
champagne or wine. If your principles or pocket do 
not object, you will be satisfied. The ham is as 
good cold as hot. 

25. ROASTING MEAT. 

Be careful in selecting to get meat that has a 
bright color. The fat should be clear and firm. 
Good meat is generally large and fat. Lean meat 
may have less fat to the pound, but it will not be 
so juicy and tender. A cut from the ribs makes a 
good prime roasting piece. Have the butcher dress 
it. Be sure he gives you a piece of suet with it. 
To prepare the meat for the oven remove all blem- 
ishes by wiping with a damp cloth or scraping with 
a knife. Do not wash your meat. Make a few 
cuts on the outside to keep it from bulging in the 
middle. Sprinkle with pepper. Cut the suet in 
small pieces and lay it on the top. Have the 
oven at its highest temperature when the meat is 
ready. A warm oven will extract the juice and 
make a rich gravy, but at the risk of spoiling 
the meat. A hot oven hardens the albumen on 
the outside, forming a covering which retains 
the richness. With this covering the meat will 
cook in its own liquor, making the roast sweet 
£ind Juicy when served. Allow fifteen minutes* 



/-.-. THE '*PEESS" PRIZE RECIPES. 25 

roasting to each pound of weight. When in the 
oven a half hour sprinkle with salt; cool the oven 
a little to keep from burning. A few minutes af- 
terward commence basting with the drippings in the 
pan; baste three or four times at intervals. When 
it is done remove the suet, put a fork through the 
fat part of the meat and remove from the pan to the 
platter. Put it in oven to keep warm while you 
are making the gravy. To make the gravy take 
two teaspoonfuls of flour; put in a cup, mix with a 
little water, enough to make a thick paste; beat 
smooth and add more water. Prepare this just 
after the meat is put in the oven, then the starch 
in the flour will have time to soak, making the 
work easier. Place the pan on the back of the 
stove and put in most of the flour and water; pour 
in boiling water; keep stirring until all are thor- 
oughly mixed. Move the pan to the front of stove 
until it boils for a minute. This will make a 
good gravy to serve with potatoes. When the 
carving is done a rich gravy of meat juice will fol- 
low the knife and settle in the dish, which can be 
served with the meat. 

26. ROAST HAM, WINE SAUCE, TENNESSEE 
STYLE. 

Take a country ham from lo to 12 pounds 
weight, soak over night in tepid water, then wash, 
scrape, and trim off all rusty fat, cut off the knuckle 
bone, rinse in very cold water, and put into a pot 
deep enough to cover it entirely; boil gently five 



26 THE "press" prize RECIPES. 

to six hours, then take up, drain, and skin ; with a 
sharp, short knife cut through the under side to the 
bone; take it out and fill its place with a stuffing 
made of half pint of flour, half pint of corn meal, 
pinch of salt, the same of black pepper and red 
pepper, two eggs, tablespoonful powdered sage, 
one small minced onion, and cream enough to make 
a stiff batter. Fry in sweet lard, stirring all the 
time. When the ham is stuffed skewer it together 
and let drip for an hour ; then put it into a clean, 
deep pan, score the fat in crossway slices, pour 
over it a quart bottle of good red wine, then sprin- 
kle with sugar and black and red pepper, and set 
in a warm, not hot, oven for two hours. Serve 
cold in the thinnest possible slices, cut all the way 
through. If properly prepared the wine will all be 
absorbed and give its flavor to every shred of meat. 

27. SADDLE OF VENISON. 

This is the best cut of venison and should always 
be roasted either before the open fire or in a hot 
oven. Lard the meat well with fat pork or bacon 
and sprinkle with salt. Place in a baking pan with 
a cup of water and two ounces of buttei;, baste 
often enough so that the meat shall not once be- 
come dry. Bake one hour for every three pounds. 
Prepare the gravy in the roasting pan as for other 
baked and roasted meat. Add three or four table- 
spoonfuls of currant jelly to the gravy, and put a 
mold of currant jelly on the table to be served with 
the vension. 



THE ** press" prize RECIPES. 2^ 

28. ROAST TURKEY. 

In choosing the bird one can readily tell whether 
it is young or not. If the lower end of the breast 
bone is soft and bends easily, the'breast plump and 
fat white, rest assured it is young. It is necessary 
to know this to determine the length of time re- 
quired in cooking. When old or very large and fat 
the flavor is apt to be strong. This method of cook- 
ings however, removes this unpleasant savor. No 
matter how old the bird it will be tender, moist^ 
sweet, and delicious, to say nothing of being noi'St 
digestible than when cooked in the ordinary inai>- 
ner. 

First singe over blazing paper. With a shar/v 
knife remove the pin feathers. If not already drawn 
at the butcher's, open the vent and draw out the 
internal organs, taking care not to break the gall. 
Pull out the windpipe from the neck. Wash out- 
side, being careful not to bi'eak the skin if tender, 
Turn back the skin and cut the neck short, an''/ 
with a large needle'and thread fasten the skin neat- 
ly over it with two or three stitches. Then proceed 
to fill with the following forcemeat: 

Take stale bread (the quantity depends on the size 
of the turkey), grate fine into a dish, add pepper, salt, 
a generous portion of butter, and sufficient sage that 
has been pulverized by passing through a sieve, to 
give it the proper flavor. A few raw oysters may 
be added, if desired. Pour over the whole a small 
quantity of water, say a gill for stuffing for a small 
turkey, cover with another dish and let steam for 



28 THE ''press" prize RECIPES. 

fifteen minutes, then remove the cover and stir 
lightly to thoroughly mix the ingredients. Do not 
fill the turkey too full, as the filling is apt to swell 
a little in cooking. Close the opening made in 
drawing with needle and thread. With a skewer 
fasten the legs together, run the skewer into the 
bone of the tail and tie securely. Run another 
skewer through the two wings, fastening them to 
the sides of the bird. Place in a steamer (a tall 
one may be procured for the purpose with a ring 
in the top to fasten to, and movable trays that can 
be used for a variety of things) ; half fill the pan 
below with water, renewing when necessary, and 
throw in the giblets. To clean these, separate the 
liver from the gall with a sharp knife. Cut lightly 
around the gizzard and pull it gently apart, peeling 
out the contents without breaking the inner skin, 
if possible. Let the turkey steam for two hours, 
or until done, which may be ascertained by trying 
the breast with a fork. If done there, it is cooked 
through. A small bird may require less time and 
a very tough one more. When done, transfer to a 
baking tin. Pour a sufficient quantity of the water 
over which it was steamed into the baking tin to 
use in basting while baking. Upon examination 
the skin will be found covered with blisters. Prick 
each one with a fork; then rub butter over every 
part of the turkey. Place in the oven and bake 
brown, basting frequently. One half hour is re- 
quired to brown properly unless it has been pre- 
pared for the oven the day before (as it may be), 
when additional time will be necessary to heat 



THE **PEESS^^ PRIZE RECIPES. 29 

through. Before serving cut the strings and re- 
move and draw out the skewers. Serve with cran- 
berry sauce. 

29. HOW TO BOIL BEEF. 

Take about four to five pounds of rump beef 
or cross rib (the first cut). Ask your butcher to 
lard the same with small pieces of salt bacon. All 
butchers do this willingly, and it will save you an 
amount of trouble. Then take about half of a car- 
rot, cut it into tiny pieces; also take an ordinary 
sized pickle, and if you have a few slices of pickled 
beets, cut them and the pickle in the same manner 
as you did the carrot. With the meat fork make 
little holes all over the beef, then fill the holes with 
the pieces, alternating from one to another— car- 
rot, pickle, beef, carrot, pickle, beef, etc. The beau- 
tiful appearance of this beef, when sliced, depends 
entirely upon the above being done with care and 
taste. You then cut two onions into slices, place a 
plate into the bottom of the saucepan in which the 
beef is to be cooked. Put the onions on the plate, 
cut from the rump some of the fat, and chop same 
into very small pieces, and add this to the onions; 
also one laurel leaf and a few whole allspice and 
pepper. Now put sufficient pepper and salt on the 
beef, then roll it in flour, being careful to cover it 
with same on all sides. Now put the meat upon 
the onions and pour boiling water over it, so that it 
is covered to about three quarters of its size. Close 
it with a well-fitting cover, and let it boil slowly but 



30 THE 

uninterruptedly for from three to three and a half 
hours. By adding a few of either fresh or canned 
tomatoes a half an hour before you wish to serve 
the beef it improves greatly the flavor of the gravy. 
The gravy should be run through a colander be- 
fore sending it to the table. This beef is excellent 
when cold for either lunch or tea. 

30. BOILED CORNED BEEF. 

Select the juicy cuts which are sold at 7 cents a 
pound, as such meat has the best flavor. Put the 
beef in cold water for two hours. Pour off the 
water. Put in cold water enough to cover it. Bring 
it up to boiling and pour off again. Add again 
enough cold water to cover. Bring it to a boil and 
let it simmer three hours, skimming off the grease. 
The meat may be served hot or sliced when cold. 

31. PORK CAKE. 

Chop fine one pound fat salt pork free irom lean 
or rind, so as to be almost like lard, and pour over 
it one half pint boiling water, two cups of sugar, 
one and a half cups of molasses, two eggs, one tea- 
spoon of soda rubbed fine and dissolved in the mo- 
lasses; nutmeg and cloves, of each one tablespoon; 
cinnamon two tablespoons, raisins chopped fine 
one pound, currants one half pound, citron quarter 
pound, sliced thin. Add flour enough to make it 
the consistency of common soft molasses cake. 
Bake slow and try with broom splint to tell when 
done. This recipe will make two loaves. 



THE " PRESS ^* PRIZE RECIPES. 31 



32. BAKED MUTTON. 

Take a leg of mutton weighing six or eight 
pounds, cut down the under side and remove the 
bone; fill with dressing made of four ounces of suet, 
eight ounces of stale bread, two beaten eggs, one 
onion, a little thyme, salt and pepper. Sew up; cook 
in a pan in a hot oven about three hours. Baste 
with butter. Thicken the gravy with browned flour 
and serve with pickles. 

33 VEAL PATE. 

Two pounds of nice finely chopped fresh veal, one 
beaten egg poured into the veal and well mixed. 
Then soak half a dozen ordinary soda crackers in 
hot water till thoroughly softened, and add these. 
Mix all carefully. Put to this a scant half cupful 
of milk. Season very highly with salt and pepper. 
Pile up in loaf form in a moderate sized tin. Bake 
a little over one hour. This is a very palatable tea 
dish. 

34. VEAL POTPOURRL 

Boil till tender the liver and heart of a calf, with 
two or three veal tongues. Chop very fine, and 
season with salt, pepper, and butter, addingvinegar 
to taste. This is good hot, or put up in small jars 
comes in nicely as a royal relish at cold collations, 
picnics, etc. 



32 THE "PEESS'^ PKIZE EEC1P:ES. 

35. SWEETBREADS. 

Veal sweetbreads are the best. Get them fresh 
as they spoil very soon; wash them and remove 
any skin or pipes that may adhere. Put to soak for 
two or three hours in cold, slightly salted water; 
then parboil twenty minutes, or until tender. Throw 
into cold water for ten minutes to whiten them and 
set in a cool place. When ready to cook them, dip 
into beaten egg, then into cracker dust, and fry in 
hot butter or beef drippings. 

S6. FRICANDEAU OF VEAL. 

Take a four pound fillet of veal, trim to a nice 
shape, and lard on top. Put thin slices of pork in 
a saucepan, lay over the pork sliced carrot, a stalk 
of celery, some parsley and an onion. Put the 
meat on top of the vegetables, sprinkle over pepper 
and salt. Fill the saucepan with boiling stock to 
cover the meat. Cover with light lid and bake in 
moderate oven two hours and a half. Baste sever- 
al times. 

37. HARICOT. 

Fry an onion; then cut all the fat from the chops; 
flour them well and brown them in the onion; cover 
with water and stew slowly for two or three hours; 
then add tomato, cucumber, or any other vegetables, 
or cover with a can of tomatoes instead of the 
water. 



THE "PEESS'* PRIZE RECIPES. 33 

38. SMOKED BEEF AND EGGS. 

Beat six eggs together, pour into a well buttered 
skillet, and add immediately one quarter of a pound 
of smoked beef, cut fine. Stir until the eggs are 
mixed through the beef and are cooked done. 

39. ENGLISH BEEFSTEAK PUDDING. 

Five pounds of best sirloin steak. Remove bones 
and cut in pieces of right size to serve on table. 

Have a three-quart earthen bowl. Wet a medium 
coarse muslin, three quarters of a yard in size, in 
water, and spread smoothly in the bowl. 

Sift four quarts of flour in -another bowl. Chop 
and pick until white and creamy one pound of best 
suet. Put it in the flour with half a teaspoon of 
salt, and mix thoroughly. 

Wet with warm milk and water until it can be 
easily rolled. Cut off one pound of the dough, and 
roll the rest large enough to line the bowl next to 
the cloth. Put in a layer of meat. Season with 
salt and pepper. Repeat this until the meat is all 
in. 

Take a tablespoonful of flour, and mix fine in a 
coffee cup of lukewarm water, and add to the meat. 

Draw the edges of crust toward the meat, and 
dampen well the edges with water; roll out the one 
pound of dough left, and fit in the top, and pinch 
well together until there is no fear of leakage. 
Take up the cloth, adjusting the fullness evenly, 
and tie with a strong string one inch above the 
pudding to make room for light crust. Drop and 



34 THE 

cover in a china lined kettle of boiling water and 
boil without cessation for five hours, keeping the 
pudding covered with boiling water. When done 
and ready to serve, take into a large pan, untie the 
string, remove the cloth carefully, lest the crust be 
broken; place on a large, deep platter, already gar- 
nished with parsley; cut from the top a circular 
piece of crust large enough to remove the meat and 
gravy as needed, cutting the remainder of the crust 
around the entire pudding, so as to keep the bottom 
whole to save loss of gravy, which is delicious, and 
also to warm if any is left over. 

40. SPICED BEEF. 

Get about three pounds of beef, the round, and 
boil until very tender. Then take out of the water, 
chop fine, and season to taste. Put in a tablespoon- 
ful each of ground cloves, allspice, and cinnamon. 
Mix well and pack in a square tin. Take the water 
it has been boiled in, and let it boil down to about 
two thirds of a cupful, salt and pepper a little, and 
pour over the meat. Let it get cold. 

41. CHICKEN FRICASSEE. 

Cut and clean the chicken, and scald and skin it 
completely. With a sharp knife remove all the 
meat from the bones. The bones, with the neck 
and feet, can be used for a most delicious clear 
chicken soup. Place the chicken meat in a stew 
pan with one onion cut into six pieces, a few sprigs 
of chopped parsley, a little salt and pepper, and a 



THE '^ PRESS ^* PRIZE RECIPES. 35 

few drops of lemon juice. Put in a piece of butter 
as lafge as an egg, and a pint of water. Cover 
close and stew for one hour. Then lift and strain 
off the gravy, into which beat [gradually a cup of 
cream and the yelks of two eggs. Set this gravy 
into a dish of boiling water until it is quite hot, 
but do not let it boil. Then flour over the fricas- 
see. 

42. CHICKEN PIE. 

Singie and unjoint two young and tender chickens. 
Wash quickly and lightly to keep sweetness in the 
fowl. Divide backbone and breast, and put in 
kettle with quart of water. Season wiih salt and 
pepper. Steam until slightly tender, make a crust 
like biscuit, only shorter ; do not knead it. Stir 
baking powder through flour; add salt, shortening, 
and milk or water, stirring lightly with a spoon 
until you have soft dough. Flour the kneading 
board and lightly roll crust half an inch thick. 
Line a deep baking-pan, put in a layer of chicken, 
dust with flour and add little lumps of butter. 
After all the chicken is in the pan, pour over it 
some of the broth and dust with a little flo'ur, 
pepper, and salt. Put on top crust ; prick holes 
for steam to escape. A nice way for any pie is to 
cut a hole in center of crust. Make a tunnel of 
stiff paper by wrapping around the finger. Let it 
stand upright in center of pie, and the juice will 
boil up in the tunnel instead of over the pie. Bake 
until crust is done and lightly brown. 



36 THE *'PEESS" PEIZE EECIPES. 

\ 

43. CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Boil a large tender chicken. Season with salt 
and pepper. When cooked cut the chicken into 
small pieces. Mince the half of a small onion with 
two sprigs of parsley. Put one ounce of buttei" in 
a saucepan. When hot put in the onion and parsley, 
with half a teacup of flour. Stew until a light 
brown, then pour over a teacup of soup stock and 
stir until a smooth paste is formed; add salt, 
pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and the juice of a 
small lemon. Mix well and put in the chicken. 
Mold into croquette shape and fry in boiling lard. 

44. JELLIED CHICKEN. 

One good-sized chicken, boiled until very tender, 
season with salt and pepper while boiling ; let the 
liquor cool, skim off the oil : heat it again and stir 
in one tablespoonful of gelatine which has been 
soaked one hour in two tablespoonfuls of water ; 
slice two hard-boiled eggs very thin, placing around 
the sides and on the bottom of dish ; cut the 
chicken quite fine with a knife, leaving out the skin ; 
place it lightly in the dish with the eggs, pour 
the liquor over it ; have only enough to cover. 
When hardened turn out on a platter garnished 
with celery tops or parsley. Nice tea dish. 

45. VENISON PASTY. 

The neck, breast, and shoulder are the parts 
used for a venison pie or pasty. Cut the meat 



THE ^' press" prize RECIPES. 37 

into pieces (fat and lean together) and put the 
bones and trimmings into a stew-pan with pepper, 
salt, and water, or veal broth enough to cover it. 
Simmer it till you have drawn out a good gravy, 
then strain it. In the meantime make a good rich 
paste and roll it rather thick. Cover the sides and 
bottom of a deep dish with one sheet of it and put 
in your meat, having seasoned it with pepper and 
salt, nutmeg and mace. Pour in the gravy which 
you have prepared from the trimmings and two 
glasses of port or claret, and lay on the top some 
bits of butter rolled in flour. Cover the pie with 
a lid of paste ornamented with paste leaves. Bake 
two hours or more according to size. 



COOKING VEGETABLES. 

46. BAKED STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Take ripe, firm tomatoes, cut a small piece off 
the top, and then cut out the inside, leaving enough 
to make a firm cup to hold the stuffing. Chop the 
inside with bread crumbs and an onion, season with 
pepper and salt, and put into the tomato. Put a 
small piece of butter on each tomato. Bake in a 
pan until they are lightly browned on top. I gen- 
erally take one onion to six tomatoes. The exact 
amount of bread crumbs depends upon the size of 
the toniatoes, as some are more juicy than others. 



38 THE 

47. POTATO CAKE. 

. Peel and boil in salted water six or eight large 
potatoes. When quite tender drain and mash fine. 
Sprinkle the bread with flour, turn the potatoes on 
it, add more,flour and work together until a rather 
stiff dough is formed. Then roll out with rolling- 
pin about three quarters of an inch thick. Cut 
in squares or cut with biscuit cutter. Have the 
griddle hot, dip each piece in flour and bake to a 
light brown on both sides. Remove to a warm 
platter, spread lightly with butter, and serve at once. 



48. POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Season cold mashed potatoes with pepper and 
salt, and beat them to a cream. To every cupful 
of potatoes add a tablespoonful of melted butter; 
also add two or three beaten eggs and some minced 
parsley. Roll into small balls. Fry in hot lard. 



49. POTATO PUFF. 

Take two cupfuls of cold mashed potato and stir 
into two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, beating 
to a white cream before adding anything else. 
Then put with this two eggs, whipped very light, 
and a teacupful of cream or milk, salting to taste. 
Beat all well, pour in a deep dish, and bake in a 
quick oven until it is nicely browned. If properly 
mixed it will come out of the oven light, puffy, and 
nice. 



THE 



PEIZE EECIPES. 39 



50. POTATO SALAD. 

Slice some large, cold, boiled potatoes very thin 
and place them in a salad dish, or arrange them in 
a pyramid and pour the following mixture over 
them: Boil an egg very hard, mash the yelk, add 
one raw yelk, one teaspoonful of cornstarch, one of 
vinegar, one of best salad oil, one half teaspoonful 
of mixed mustard, one of salt, one half spoon of 
cayenne pepper, two of butter, and beat all thor- 
oughly together. Ornament with slices of boiled 
eggs, parsley, or sliced lemons. 

51. BAKED TURNIPS. 

Pare four good-sized turnips ; cut in thick slices; 
cook until tender in salted water ; drain and lay in 
a baking dish. Make a sauce as follows: Two large 
tablespoonfuls of flour, two of butter ; stir these 
together in frying-pan ; when thoroughly heated 
and mixed add a teacup of milk, pouring in gradu- 
ally; add very little salt and pepper and bits of 
butter over top of turnips; pour the sauce over and 
bake in a brisk oven twenty minutes. 

52. SUCCOTASH. 

Take eight to twelve ears of young sweet corn, 
according to size; cut off the corn, lengthwise of 
the ear, and not cutting deep; put it in your kettle 
with three quarts of cold water, boil half an hour, 
skim and add one quart of shelled green Lima 
beans; boil one hour and then scrape the milk from 



40 THE ''press" prize RECIPES. 

the cobs with the back of a silver knife, mix with 
the beans and corn, take from the fire and let it 
stand on top of stove for a few minutes, then pour 
all into a large dish and season with pepper and 
salt to taste, adding one cup of sweet butter. 



53. CAULIFLOWER. 

Place a head of cauliflower in salt water for a 
few minutes to remove insects. Boil twenty min- 
utes in salt water, drain on sieve, and put it in a 
buttered dish. Melt a piece of butter the size of 
an egg, add to it one tablespoonful of flour, stir on 
the fire one minute, and add a gill of milk, and pep- 
per and salt. Stir this sauce until it boils. Pour 
over the cauliflower, sprinkle over it a few browned 
bread crumbs, and set it in a moderate oven for a 
few minutes to bake. 



54. ASPARAGUS. 

Have the stalks of equal length and scrape the 
white part of the stalks from the asparagus. Then 
place in cold water for a time before using. Tie in 
bunches, place in a stewpan containing about half 
a gallon of water, and a tablespoonful of salt. 
Boil quickly from twenty to thirty minutes. Have 
some thin slices of toasted bread on hot dish; drain 
the asparagus and arrange on the toast. Serve 
while hot, with butter. 



THE "PEESS" PBIZE RECIPES. 41 



55. BOILED ASPARAGUS. 

Cut off the tough ends, put in boiling water, 
which has salt in it, and cook until tender. For a 
bunch of asparagus, make a sauce of a pint of milk, 
a tablespoon of butter, pepper and salt to taste, and 
a heaping tablespoon of flour; have ready a few 
slices of toasted bread, on which lay the asparagus, 
well drained; pour over all the boiling sauce and 
serve. 

56. DELICIOUS CABBAGE. 

Slice or chop fine a small head of cabbage, salt 
and pepper, and cook in just enough water to keep 
from burning; take half a cup sour cream, half a 
cup vinegar, two eggs, butter size of an egg; beat 
together, pour over the cabbage; let it boil and 
serve at once. 

57. CABBAGE BALLS. 

Cold mutton, lamb, or veal. Take one half dozen 
nice cabbage leaves; wilt in warm water; one and 
a half pounds of meat; two tablespoonfuls of boiled 
rice or cold bread dressing, one small onion; meat 
and onion chopped fine; one pinch of salt and pep- 
per; half teaspoon thyme; mix all together; add a 
spoonful of butter; make into six balls; tie each in 
a cabbage leaf; boil in a large bottomed pot, and a 
quart of water, and any gravy you have on hand; 
boil one half hour over a slow fire; serve in leaves, 
with gravy. 



42 



58. STEAMED CABBAGE. 

Chop cabbage fine; take tablespoonful of butter, 
put in pan and brown; put in this half a cup of 
vinegar, and half a cup ef white sugar. Let this 
come to a boil; then add previously beaten one 
egg, half cup of cream, half teaspoonful of corn- 
starch; stir these in the boiling vinegar. Pour this 
dressing boiling hot over cabbage and cover close, 
and let it stand on back of range a little time be- 
fore serving. 

59. CABBAGE SALAD. 

Half pint vinegar, pinch of salt, two thirds of a 
cup of sugar; set to simmer. Take half a cup of 
cream, one egg well beaten, one teaspoonful of 
cornstarch, one teaspoonful of mustard, ground. 
Stir these well together and stir into the boiling 
vinegar; boil a minute, stirring constantly one 
way. Mix this thoroughly with chopped cabbage. 

60. BAKED TOMATOES. 

Get them as large and sound as possible. Cut 
off the upper half, remove the seed and fill with 
cracker crumbs; put a small piece of butter on top 
of the cracker. Place on the upper half of the to- 
mato and bake twenty minutes in hot oven. Be 
careful not to have them burn or become dry. 

61. TOMATO SOUP. 

To one quart of stewed tomatoes, strained, that 
no seeds reniain, add a generous quart of boil- 



THE ^^PRESS" PRIZE RECIPES. 43 

ing milk. Put a pinch of butter the size of an egg 
in the tureen, and add two tablespoonfuls of rolled 
cracker, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour over 
this the boiling milk, then add the strained toma- 
toes; mix thoroughly. 



62. TOMATO CATSUP. 

Boil your tomatoes and strain through a sieve. 
To one gallon of tomatoes add one quart vinegar, 
four teaspoonfuls salt, four whole black peppers, 
four spoonfuls mustard, four spoonfuls white sugar, 
one ounce bruised ginger, one small teaspoonful 
red pepper (or two bell peppers boiled with the to- 
matoes), four onions, a small handful of fresh 
peach leaves. Boil all for three hours on a slow 
fire. If peach leaves cannot be had, use two table- 
spoonfuls bruised peach pits. Tie all the season- 
ing in a thin muslin bag. 

63. BAKED MACARONI. 

Break the macaroni in pieces about an inch long. 
Boil in hot salted water twenty minutes. Have 
regdy a dish of grated cheese, and a greased baking- 
dish. When macaroni is soft, place alternate lay- 
ers of macaroni and cheese till all is used, having 
cheese for top layer. Then sprinkle salt, pepper, 
and bits of butter on top, and pour on milk enough 
to be seen when dish is tipped. Bake twenty min- 
utes or half an hour. 



44 THE "press" prize recipes. 



64. INDIAN PUDDING. 

One quart milk, two heaping tablespoonfuls of 
Indian meal, four of sugar, one of butter, three 
eggs, one teaspoon of salt and half teaspoon ginger. 
Boil the milk, stirring the meal into it, and cook 
about twelve minutes: stir the butter into the meal 
and milk, and when cool add the beaten eggs, salt, 
sugar and ginger. Bake slowly one hour. 



65. LETTUCE SALAD. 

Use the crisp leaves, cold and fresh, without cut- 
ting, and dress with mayonnaise sauce flavored 
with fresh lemon-juice. This is the best of all 
salads. 



66. CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

Wash the berries in cold water after picking out 
all soft or defective ones. Put into scalding water 
two minutes; then drain, and to every pound of 
berries add a half pint of cold water. Place the 
kettle into another kettle of boiling water ; cover 
close and do not stir the berries. When they have 
boiled five minutes add a half pound of granulated 
sugar for each pound of fruit and let boil two min- 
utes longer. By this means the fruit will be whole 
and of a bright color. Always serve the berries 
with their juice, otherwise the sauce is too dry and 
bitter, 



THE " PRESS '^ PRIZE RECIPES. 45 



67. VEGETABLE SALAD. 

Take the four sliced potatoes, two carrots, and 
two turnips which have been cooked in the corned 
beef soup, chop and mix two cups of cabbage and 
two of celery and arrange in alternate layers with 
the cooked vegetables in a salad dish, adding may- 
onnaise dressing flavored with fresh lemon-juice. 



MAKING PASTRY. 

68. WHITE LAYER CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one half cup butter, one half cup 
sweet milk, two cups flour, one and a half tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder, whites of four eggs. 
Sift the baking powder through the flour two or 
three times. Whip the eggs to a stiff froth. 
Cream the butter and sugar, add half the milk 
and flour, beating thoroughly; add remainder, and 
last of all beat in the eggs. The yelks can be used 
in the same way for golden cake. Bake in layer 
tins, and when cold spread with any one of the fol- 
lowing fillings : 

FILLINGS FOR CAKE. 

Caramel. — Two cups sugar, one half cup cream, 
one piece of butter the size of a walnut. Cook 
until it candies in water, stirring all the time; then 
beat until cold and add one half teaspoonful of 
vanilla. 



46 THE "PEESS'* PRIZE RECIPES. 

Maple Sugar. — Two cups maple sugar cooked 
until it strings. Add beaten whites of two eggs 
and beat until cold. 

Apple. — One and a half cups sugar, juice and 
grated rind of one lemon, two grated apples, whites 
of two eggs ; all beaten thoroughly together. 

Chocolate. — Whites of three eggs, one and a half 
cups sugar, three tablespoonfuls chocolate, one tea- 
spoonful vanilla. 

Chocolate Icing. — Small pieces of chocolate grated, 
one cup sugar, white of one ^zZ'-> well beaten. 

Orange Icing. — Rind and piece of one orange 
and lemon, one cup of sugar, white of ^^^ well 
beaten. 

Boiled Frosting. — Six tablespoonfuls of sugar to 
the white of one ^%%. Water enough to dissolve 
the sugar, and boil until it waxes. Add the waxed 
sugar to the beaten ^^^ while hot and beat until 
cool. Beat into this desiccated cocoanut for cocoa- 
nut filling. 

Pineapple. — One and a half cups of sugar, two 
pieces of candied pineapple chopped in small 
pieces, or half a can of grated pineapple without 
the juice. Boil until it waxes. Add the beaten 
whites of two eggs and beat until cold. This last 
filling is particularly delicate. 

All boiled frostings should "be added to the 
whites of the eggs while hot, and beaten constantly 
until cold enough to spread. 



THE " PRESS '* PRIZE RECIPES. 47 

69. FRENCH PUFF PASTE. 

Take equal quantities of flour and butter, say 
one pound of each, half a saltspoonful of salt, the 
white of one egg, and rather more than one fourth 
of a pint of water. Weigh the flour, ascertain that 
it is perfectly dry, and sift it; squeeze all the water 
from the butter, and wring it in a clean cloth till 
there is no moisture remaining. Put the flour into 
a large bowl, and work lightly into it one quarter 
of the butter; into this put the white of the egg, 
well beaten, the salt and about one fourth of a pint 
of ice cold water (the quantity of water must be 
regulated by the cook, as it is impossible to give 
the exact proportion of it), knead up the paste 
quickly and lightly, and, when smooth, roll it out 
square to the thickness of about half an inch. 
Presuming that the butter is perfectly free from 
moisture and as cool as possible, roll it into a ball 
and place this ball on the center of the paste; fold 
the paste over the butter all around, and secure it 
by wrapping it well all over. Flatten the paste by 
rolling it lightly with the rolling-pin until it is 
quite thin, but not thin enough to allow the butter 
to break through, and keep the board and paste 
dredged lightly with flour during the process of 
making. This rolling gives it the first turn. Now 
fold the paste in three thicknesses and roll out 
again, and should the weather be very warm put it 
in a cool place or on ice to cool between the 
several turns. Unless kept cool the paste will be 
spoiled. Roll out the paste twice, put it by to 



48 THE "press" peize becipes. 

cool, then roll it out three times more, which will 
make seven turnings in all. Now fold paste in 
two and set in a cold place or on the ice until ready- 
to use. If well made and properly baked this 
crust will be delicious and should rise in the oven 
very much. The paste should be made rather firm 
in the first instance, as the butter is liable to break 
through. You must also avoid getting it too soft. 
Great attention must be paid to keeping the but- 
ter cool. When covering baking dishes with puff 
paste handle the paste as deftly and lightly as pos- 
sible if you would have light crust. Cut the paste 
from the edge of the baking dish with a sharp 
knife, first dipped in hot water or flour. 

70. ENGLISH WALNUT CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, one half cup of butter, one 
half cup of milk, two cups of flour, two eggs, one 
heaping teaspoonful of baking powder, one large 
cup of stoned raisins, one large cup of chopped 
walnuts. Flour the nuts and raisins before putting 
them in the cake. This is very good and not ex- 
pensive. 

71. RIBBON CAKE. 
Take one and a quarter cups sugar, one half cup 
butter, one half cup sweet milk, three eggs, and two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder ; beat thoroughly. 
Divide in three parts, and to one third add one 
tablespoonful of molasses, one teaspoonful each of 
cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg ; bake in three 



THE "press" prize RECIPES. 



49 



layers, and put the dark between the two white 
layers! placing sufficient icing or jelly between; ice 
the top. 

72. CREAM PUFFS. 
One cup hot water, one half cup butter, boil 
together, and while boiling stir in one cup of sifted 
flour, dry. Take from the stove and stir to smooth 
paste, and after this cools stir in three eggs, not 
beaten. Stir five minutes. Drop in tablespoon- 
fuls on a buttered tin and bake in a quick oven 
twenty-five minutes. Don't let them touch each 
other in the pan and do not open the oven door 
oftener than absolutely necessary. For the cream, 
one cup milk, one half cup sugar, one egg, three 
tablespoons flour or two cornstarch. Dissolve 
cornstarch in a little milk. Put the rest of the milk 
on the stove. When hot stir in the sugar and egg, 
beaten together, and cornstarch. Cook until thick. 
Flavor with vanilla. When both this and puffs are 
cool open one side of the puffs and fill with the 
cream. This makes one dozen puffs. 

72. NEAPOLITAN CAKE. 
One cup brown sugar, three eggs, half a cup of 
butter, half a cup of molasses, half a cup of strong 
coffee, three cups of flour, one teaspoonful of bak- 
ing powder, one cup of raisins, and one of currants ; 
a teaspoonful each of cinnamon, cloves, and mace. 
Bake in jelly cake pan. For white part take two 
cups of sugar, one of butter, three of flour, half a 
cup of milk, a teaspoonful of baking powder and 



So THE ^' PRESS ^* PRIZ^ felECl^Sg. 

the whites of four eggs. Bake in jelly pans and put 
together alternately, with icing flavored with vanlila 
between. Ice the top. 

Icing. — Take the whites of two eggs and stir in 
one pound of powdered sugar. Flavor with vanilla. 

73. ANGEL CAKE. 

Whites of eleven eggs, one and one half cups of 
sugar, one cup of flour sifted four times, one tea- 
spoon of cream tartar, one teaspoon of vanilla ; 
cream tartar sifted in the flour. Beat the whites 
and stir in the sugar, add extract and stir the flour 
lightly. Do not grease the tin ; bake forty minutes 
in a slow oven. The kind of tin to bake it in : Go 
to the 'in shop and get a six-quart pan, have a pipe 
made in the center which will be two inches in dia- 
meter and smaller at the top. When the cake is 
baked turn the tin upside down and let it be until 
the cake drops from the tin. 

74. FIG CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, three cups flour, one cup milk, 
half cup butter, three eggs, beaten separately, 
whites added last ; three teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder ; flavor as you like ; bake in tins, six by ten 
inches ; three layers. 

Filling for Fig Cake. — One pound figs, chopped 
fine. Add one half cup hot water, scant half cup 
of sugar, put in a basin, set this into water and boil 
until smooth ; spread between the layers. 



51 

Frosting for the Sa7ne. — One pound of powdered 
sugar, half pint of boiling water ; boil until thick 
as mucilage or strings from the spoon ; then beat 
until white ; spread on the cake hot. 



75. LOCKPORT CAKE. 

Three eggs, two cups sugar, one cup butter, three 
cups flour, one cup sweet milk, three teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder ; divide into three parts, take 
two, add to the third two tablespoonfuls of mo- 
lasses, one teaspoonful of all kinds of spices, one 
half cup of flour, one cup chopped raisins ; this is 
the center layer, to be put together with white 
frosting or chocolate, the chocolate to be.n^ade as 
follows : One cup sugar, three fourths cup grated 
chocolate, one half cup water; let boil until it 
strings from the spoon or holds together when 
dropped into water. This cake is best baked in 
tins six by ten inches. 

76. SARATOGA CAKE. 

Two eggs well beaten, one and a half cups of 
sugar, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one cup of 
milk, one half teaspoonful of lemon extract (vanilla 
if preferred), two full cups of flour, and two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder. For frosting, beat 
the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, then add 
seven tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar and flavor 
with one half teaspoonful of either lemon or vanilla 
extract ; when the cake it done, take out of oven 



52 THE 

and let it stand fifteen minutes or more before 
frosting, after which return it to the oven only long 
enough to form a crust without being colored. 



77. CREAM SPONGE CAKE. 

One coffee-cup of sugar, one coffee-cup of sifted 
flour, four eggs, four and one half tablespoons of 
milk, two teaspoons of baking powder sifted in 
with the flour, a little salt and lemon essence. 
Bake in two jelly tins. 

Cream Filling, — Pint of thick sweet cream, sweet- 
ened and flavored with vanilla. Beat with an ^^'g 
beater until very stiff. Spread between and on top 
of the layers of sponge cake. 



78. A PYRAMID OF TARTS. 

Roll out a sufficient quantity of the best puff 
paste, and, with oval or circular cutters, cut it out 
into seven or eight pieces of different sizes, stamp- 
ing the middle of each with the cutter you intend 
using for the next. Bake all separately, and when 
cool place them on a dish in a pyramid, the largest 
piece at the bottom, the smallest at the top. Take 
various preserved or fiesh fruits and lay some of 
the largest on the lower piece of paste; the next 
smaller, and so on till you finish at the top with 
the smallest fruit you have. The upper bar may 
be small enough to hold a single raspberry or 
strawberry. 



THE "press" prize RECIPES. 53 



79. CINDERELLAS. 

One pint rich milk, one fourth pound melted 
butter, four tablespoonfuls sifted flour. Beat four 
eggs very light and stir them gradually into the 
milk and butter alternately with the flour. Add a 
half of a small grated nutmeg and a half teaspoon- 
ful powdered cinnamon ; mix thoroughly. Butter 
large custard cups and fill a little more than half 
full. Bake immediately in a quick oven fifteen 
minutes. Serve hot with a sauce of s weetened 
cream flavored with sherry wine. 

80. SCOTCH CAKE. 

One pound sifted flour, three fourths pound 
butter, one pound powdered sugar. Mix into a 
doiigh with three well-beaten eggs ; roll into a thin 
sheet cut into round cakes and bake in a quick 
oven. They require but a few minutes. 

81. LOAF CAKE. 

Six pounds flour, four pounds sugar, three and 
three quarter pounds shortening, four eggs, four 
nutmegs, two tablespoonfuls mace, one tumbler 
cider brandy or three quarters tumbler Santa Cruz 
rum ; citron and raisins. 

To put it together take one third of the shortening 
and sugar and stir to a cream ; add. flour and one 
quart yeast. Wet up with milk about like biscuit ; 
let rise over night. When the rest of the sugar 



54 TH 

and shortening are rubbed together and after it is 
quite white, add yelks of the eggs and spices and 
stir with it. Let the whole rise two or three hours, 
or until light ; then put in pans and bake in not 
too hot an oven. The above rule makes eight 
loaves. For the yeast one quart water, two raw 
potatoes, one medium-sized parsnip, raw, a pinch 
of hops. Boil, strain, and work up with distillery 
yeast. Make a day or two before rising. 

82. LEMON JELLY CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of milk, three cups 
flour, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
a lump of butter the size of an English walnut, 
flavor with extract of lemon; bake in three layers. 

Jelly. — Grate the rinds of two large lemons, to 
the juice add one cup of sugar, one half cup of 
water, one ^%%^ lump of butter; add whole to rinds, 
and put on the stove and let it come to a boil; then 
thicken with two teaspoonfuls of cornstarch and 
spread between layers. 

Ici}ig. — Take the white of one ^^^^ and stir in one 
half pound of powdered sugar; then flavor with ex- 
tract of lemon. 

%Z' ALMOND SPONGE CAKE. 

Take six eggs, their weight in granulated sugar, 
half their weight in flour, one lemon, juice and 
grated rind, one cup of finely chopped almonds. 
Beat the eggs separately. Add the sugar to the 
thoroughly whipped yelks. Grate the lemon rind 



% 



PRIZE RECIPES. 55 

and strain the lemon juice into this. Now put in 
half the flour and half the whites, which should be 
beaten to a stiff froth, then the balance of flour, in- 
to which the cup of almonds should be stirred. To 
prepare the almonds take them from shells, put in- 
to a dish and pour boiling water over them till they 
can be slipped from the skins. Let stand till cold, 
and then cut them very fine with a sharp knife. 
Lastly add the remainder of whites of eggs,, and 
beat hard for a few minutes. Have ready two 
narrow long pans thoroughly greased with sweet 
lard and heated. Bake twenty-five minutes in a 
moderate oven. 

84. ROYAL FRUIT CAKE. 
Take two cups of sugar and one cup of butter, 
the yelks and whites of four eggs, to be beaten 
separately, and one cup of milk. Beat butter and 
sugar to a cream; mix all together with lour cups 
of flour (or sufficient to make a stiff cake dough), 
into which three heaping teaspoonfuls of good bak- 
ing powder has been mixed; two cups each of rai- 
sins and currants well washed, one quarter of a 
pound of citron, half pound of figs, one cup each of 
English walnut and hickory nut meats; chop fine 
the raisins, figs, citron, and nuts; mix all together 
and stir well through cake dough. Turn into a 
well greased pan and bake three hours in a slow 
oven. Frosting for fruit cake: Three quarters of 
a pound of powdered sugar, one tablespoonful of 
vrater, and three tablespoonfuls of good wine; beat 
well together, and spread when the cake is cold, 



56 THE " PRESS ^' PRIZE RECIPES. 



85. BANANA CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of 
milk or water, three eggs, four cups of flour, three 
small teaspoons of baking powder. Mix lightly and 
bake in layers. Make an icing of the whites of two 
eggs and one and a half cups of powdered sugar; 
spread on the layers and cover thickly and entirely 
with bananas sliced thin. The cake may be 
flavored with vanilla. The top should be simply 
frosted. 



86. FRENCH CREAM CAKE. 

Beat three eggs and one cup of sugar together 
thoroughly; add two tablespoonfuls of cold water; 
stir one large teaspoonful of baking powder into a 
cup and a half of flour; sift the flour in, stirring all 
the time in one direction; bake in two thin cakes ; 
split the cakes when hot, and fill in the cream pre- 
pared in the following manner: To a pint of new 
milk add two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch, one 
beaten egg, one half cup of sugar; stir while cook- 
ing, and while hot put in a piece of butter, half the 
size of an egg; flavor the cream with lemon, vanil- 
la, or pineapple, or, if a lover of bananas, slice one 
or two bananas into it. Frost the cake if liked, but 
I prefer it without frosting, if eaten while fresh; use 
a thin blade knife to split the cakes; if the knife is 
made hot on the stove it will not hurt the cake. 



PRIZE RECIPES. 57 



87. SUNSHINE CAKE. 

Whites of eleven eggs, yelks of six eggs, one and 
one half cups of granulated sugar, measured after 
one sifting; one cup of flour, measured after one 
sifting; one teaspoonful of cream tartar, one tea- 
spoonful of extract of vanilla. Beat the whites to 
a stiff froth, and gradually beat in the sugar. Beat 
yelks in a similar manner. Add to the yelks the 
whites and sugar, then the flavoring. Mix quickly 
and well. Bake fifty minutes in a slow oven. Do 
not grease the pan. 

88. SILVER CAKE. 

Stir to a cream one cup and a half of powdered 
sugar, one half cup of butter, add whites of three 
eggs, beaten stiff, one teaspoon of vanilla or rose, 
one cup of cold water, three cups of flour, two tea- 
spoons of baking powder; bake in a tin as large as 
eight by twelve inches, and bake it in a moderate 
oven. 

Frosting. — The whites of two eggs, one pound of 
powdered sugar; after you have frosted your cake, 
have some English walnuts cracked, and put half a 
walnut on each piece of cake; cut the cake in 
squares. 

89. COOKIES. 

One ^%^, one and a half cups of granulated 
sugar, three fourths cup of butter, three fourths 
cup of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of cream of tar- 



58 THE " PRESS " PRIZE RECIPES. 

tar, two teaspoonfuls of soda, a little nutmeg, flour 
enough so they will roll out good. Have your 
oven hot, so they will bake quickly. Without the 
soda and cream of tartar the cookies will not be 
good. 

90. ORANGE CREAM SPONGE CAKE. 

Mix, by sifting, three teaspoons of Cleveland's 
baking powder with one and a half cups of flour. 
In a separate dish beat three eggs until light, add 
one and a half cups of white sugar, one half cup of 
hot water, and the grated rind of half an orange. 
Beat all together and pour into the flour. Stir 
thoroughly and bake in layers. 

Cream. — One half pint of milk, one ^%^^ one tea- 
spoon of cornstarch, one tablespoon of flour and two 
tablespoons of sugar. Heat the milk, beat the 
other ingredients together, add and boil until it 
thickens. Flavor with the grated rind of the re- 
maining half of the orange, spread between the lay- 
ers and frost the top with the beaten white of one 
^gg> and pulverized sugar enough to thicken. A 
little of the orange juice may be added to the frost- 
ing if desired. 

91. GOAT ISLAND CAKES. 

These cakes were served at the restaurant on 
Goat Island, at Niagara Falls, hence the name. 
Beat to a cream two cups of granulated sugar and 
one half cup of butter. Add the well beaten yelks 
of five eggs and one half cup of cold water, Then 



THE " PEESS " PRIZE KECIPES. 59 

sift in two cups of flour, a pinch of salt and two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder. (The two cups of 
flour must be measured before sifting.) Beat these 
ingredients well, flavor with lemon according to 
taste, and lastly, add the whites of the five eggs, 
beaten thoroughly. Do not stir long after adding 
the whites of the eggs. Bake in gem pans, and 
frost if desired. 

92. BROWN-STONE-FRONT CAKE. 

Whites of four eggs, two cups of sugar, one half 
cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, three cups of 
flour, two heaping teaspoons of baking powder 
(sifted), one half teaspoon lemon extract. Cream 
the butter and sugar, beat the eggs to a stiff froth. 
Divide this mixture into two parts. Into one part 
put grated chocolate. Bake in two layers in square 
tins, one white and one dark cake. Put together 
with chocolate frosting, and ice the top with same. 
Frosting: Three quarters of a cup each of sugar 
and chocolate (grated), a little milk. Cook in ba- 
sin over the top of the tea kettle. Flavor with 
vanilla. 

93. LADY-FINGER PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, three tablespoonfuls of corn- 
starch, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, one [tea- 
spoonful of extract of vanilla, yelks of two eggs, 
little salt, one dozen lady-fingers. Let the milk 
come to a boil. Mix the cornstarch, sugar, and 
eggs well together; stir them in the boiling milk- 
When sufficiently thick, remove from stove ^nd add 



60 THE "press" prize RECIPES. 

the extract of vanilla. Spread a thin layer of this 
in the pudding-dish. Separate the lady-fingers and 
place a layer of them next, and so on, alternately, 
until there are about six layers in all. Add to the 
whites of the eggs, after beating them to a stiff 
froth, four tablespoonfuls of sugar. Spread this 
over the top and set in the oven until a light brown, 
then put away to cool before eating. 

94. TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Three tablespoonfuls of flake tapioca, cover with 
two thirds of a pint of water and let stand over 
night. In the morning place on the stove one quart 
of milk, with a very small pinch of salt, and when 
it comes to a boiling point, stir in the tapioca and 
let the whole boil hard about two minutes; then 
stir into the pudding-pan, in which you have pre- 
viously well mixed the yelks of four eggs, with 
three tablespoonfuls of sugar and sufficient extract 
of vanilla to flavor; beat whites of the four eggs to 
stiff froth, add four tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar and a little extract of vanilla, beat up again 
and spread evenly over the pudding; put in hot oven 
until slightly browned, which should be about one 
minute. Serve cold. 

95. RAILWAY PUDDING. 

Take one teacupful of powdered sugar, one tea- 
cupful of flour, three eggs, one dessert spoonful of 
baking powder, one ounce of butter, half a dozen 
drops of essence of almonds, one tablespoonful of 



THE '* press'' PRI2E RECIPES. 61 

milk. Grease thoroughly, with butter, a bread tin; 
then mix in a large bowl the flour and sugar; add 
to this the baking powder; break the three eggs in 
a small bowl and beat them till very light; pour in 
the milk, drop in the essence of almonds, and when 
well stirred pour in large bowl, with flour, etc., and 
stir well; pour the whole in bread tin and put in 
oven at once. The sauce for the pudding is made 
as follows: Three ounces of butter^ three ounces of 
powdered sugar, one and a half gills of boiling 
water, one gill of cherry wine, half a saltspoonful 
of nutmeg. Beat sugar and butter to a cream in a 
bowl, pour over this the boiling water, stirring in 
the meantime; place the mixture in a saucepan and 
stir over the fire until very hot (not letting it boil), 
add the wine and nutmeg and the sauce is made. 

96. BANANA CREAM PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, yelks of three eggs, one large 
tablespoon of cornstarch, just enough to make a 
nice thick cream; sweeten to taste (quite sweet); 
cook; pour over three large bananas, cut in thin 
slices and laid in the bottom of the dish. Make a 
meringue of the whites of the eggs and brown in 
the oven. Set away until cold. 

97. PEARL PUDDING. 

Half cup of boiled rice, one pint of milk, three 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, one tablespoonful of corn- 
starch, one small teaspoonful of salt, and yelks of 
three eggs. Beat together and cook as a custard. 



62 THE " PRESS *^ PRIZE RECIPES. 

Put in a dish and allow to cool. When cool flavor 
with vanilla. Beat the whites of the three eggs to 
a stiff froth; add six tablespoonfuls of sugar; flavor 
with vanilla, and pour over the pudding. 

98. APPLE DUMPLING PIE. 

To one pint of rich, sour cream (not bitter) add 
one teaspoonful of baking soda and a pinch of salt. 
Stir well till the soda is thoroughly mixed with the 
cream. Then stir in enough flour to make a batter 
thick enough to drop from a spoon. Pare and slice 
some mellow tart apples. Grease your pie tin or 
tins and spread a layer of the batter over the bot- 
tom of the tin, then a layer of the apples, and so al- 
ternate till the tin is full, putting in batter last. 
Put in hot oven (not too hot), and bake till done, 
which you can tell by trying the dough, as for cake. 
Cut in pieces and serve with cream and sugar. 
Flavor the cream, if desired, with nutmeg. For a 
large family double the amount of cream. 

99. GYPSY PUDDING. 

One sheet sponge cake thinly spread with jelly, 
one glass of wine poured over it; blanched al- 
monds stuck in the cake; pour a boiled custard over 
the whole. 

100. GEM PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, yelks of four eggs, one pint 
bread crumbs, sugar and a little salt. Put in the 
oven and bake. When done, have read}'' the whites 
of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth, with one small 



^i^HE "PBESS^* PRIZil RECIPES. 63 

Cup of powdered sugar and the juice of one lemon. 
Spread over the top and put in oven to brown. 



loi. APPLE CHARLOTTE. 

Line a delf dish, which you have carefully rubbed 
Avith a small piece of butter, with slices of bread 
cut so as to fit evenly the bottom and sides of the 
dish. Pare and slice two quarts of tart, high 
flavored apples, enough to nearly reach the top of 
the bread. Mix in an eighth of a pound of granu- 
lated sugar and a quarter of a pound of butter in 
small lumps. Soak a few slices of bread in milk 
(all the bread must be free from crust and cut to 
match), and cover the apples with the bread, after 
having added sufficient cinnamon, mace and nut- 
meg, one quarter of a teaspoonful of each; fit a 
plate close upon the bread, so as to cover and hold 
it down. Bake two hours in a very hot oven, and 
turn out and serve hot. 



102. SUET PUDDING. 

One cup sweet milk, one cup chopped raisins, 
one cup suet chopped very fine, one cup molasses, 
four cups flour, one teaspoon soda; season with 
nutmeg and cinnamon and a little salt; to be 
steamed in a light covered pail set in a kettle of 
boiling water and kept boiling three hours, with the 
kettle covered tight. To be eaten with melted 
sugar — light brown is best. 



64 THE "press 

103. VANILLA CREAM PUDDING. 

One quart sweet cream, yelks of five eggs, one 
half ounce gelatine, one small cup sugar, two tea- 
spoonfuls vanilla extract. 

Preparation. — Soak the gelatine in just enough 
cold water to cover it for an hour; drain, and stir 
into a pint of the cream, made boiling hot; beat the 
yelks with the sugar until smooth and add the boil- 
ing mixture, beaten in a little at a time; heat until 
it begins to thicken, but not boil; remove from the 
fire and flavor, and while it is still hot, stir in the 
other pint of cream, whipped to a stiff froth; beat 
in this "whip," a spoonful at a time, into the cus- 
tard until it resembles a sponge-cake batter. Dip 
a mold in ice-cold water, pour in the mixture, and 
set it on the ice to form. 

104. CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

One quart milk set in boiling water, yelks of 
three eggs, three tablespoons cornstarch, four table- 
spoons sugar, four tablespoons grated chocolate. 
Dissolve the cornstarch, beat all well and add to 
boiling milk. Boil until it bubbles. Putin a deep 
dish and add teaspoon vanilla extract. Beat the 
whites of three eggs, add powdered sugar, one tea- 
spoon vanilla. Spread over the top. Set in oven 
to brown. 

105. ROMAN CREAM. 

Dissolve half an ounce of gelatine into half a 
tumbler of boiling water. Then take from the fire 



THE " PRESS '' PRIZE RECIPES. 65 

and stir in one pint of rich cream, whites of two 
eggs beaten stiff and stirred in the cream; also one 
gill of brandy. Flavor to taste and cool in forms. 

io6. FRUIT PUDDING. 

One cup of milk or water, one cup molasses, one 
cup beef suet, chopped fine; one cup raisins, one 
teaspoonful soda, one egg, one teaspoonful cloves, 
two teaspoonfuls cinnamon, one small nutmeg. 
Stir stiff with flour. Steam three and three quarter 
hours. 

107. PRUNE WHIP. 

One pound of best prunes, whites of four eggs, 
two thirds of a cup of fine granulated sugar, one 
half pint sweet cream, juice of half a lemon. After 
the prunes are well wash<^, stew them till perfectly 
soft; add sugar while cooking; when cold remove 
the pits. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff 
froth, adding prunes and lemon-juice, whip all to- 
gether for ten or fifteen minutes, put into a pudding- 
dish and bake for twenty minutes in r moderate 
oven, till a light brown. When very c .:d serve 
with the cream, whipped light and slightly sweet- 
ened. 

108. COFFEE BLANC MANGE. 

One quart of milk, one third box of gelatine, one 
cup of strong coffee, four eggs, one and a half cups 
sugar. When the milk boils add the eggs and 
sugar; stir well; then let it come to a boil and add 
the coffee. Put in a little vanilla, as it is an im- 



66 THE "press'' prize recipes. 

provement. Then pour into a large mold or twd 
small ones. This makes enough for eight or ten 
people. 

109. CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE. 

One half box of gelatine, well soaked in half pint 
cold water. Let one pint and a half of milk come 
to the boiling point, three quarters of a cup of 
grated chocolate (not the sweetened), twelve table- 
spoons sugar; add the gelatine and stir it well a 
few moments before turning it into the mold; flavor 
with grated orange peel or vanilla. To be eaten 
when cold with cream. 

no. YANKEE PIE. 

To one and one half pounds of best pastry flour 
allow one and one half pounds of best butter and a 
little less than three gills of water. Squeeze the 
butter dry and wring it in a dry napkin free of 
moisture. Sift the flour into a dry dish. Let every- 
thing be clean, especially the rolling board and roll- 
ing pin and the hands. Mix the flour and water in-^ 
to a smooth paste, using a clean knife; be careful 
not to get the paste too wet or it will be tough. 
Roll out of equal thickness of about an inch. 
Break about a fourth of the butter into small pieces 
and place these upon the paste, sift on a little flour, 
fold over, roll out. Repeat the buttering and roll- 
ing, dredging to prevent sticking, taking great care 
to handle and roll very lightly, brushing the paste 
after each rolling with the white of egg to increase 



THE ^^PRESS" PEI2E REClt'ES. Ql 

the quality of flakin©s-s in baking. Have ready as 
soon as the crust is done two quarts of tart, spicy 
flavored apples, pared and quartered. Put one half 
of the crust rolled out to the proper size into a 
large baking-pan and add the apples, putting in 
two cups of sugar. Place over the apples the upper- 
crust, gently compacting and closing the edges. 
The oven must be ready to bake at a little more 
than medium heat. As soon as the crust is done 
have another baking-pan ready with an under- 
crust made of half the quantity of ingredients. Put 
in a layer of apples which are cooked soft. Break 
the thoroughly cooked crust into small pieces and 
place a layer of them over the apples, then sprinkle 
with sugar, cinnamon and mace. Add another 
layer of soft apples and repeat the spiced layer of 
crust with sugar, until all of the cooked crust and 
apple are used, taking care to finish with a layer of 
apples about one inch thick, which must also be 
spiced and sweetened to taste, with a dash of nut- 
meg, Sprinkle with a few small pieces of butter. 
Then the pie is to be returned to the oven long 
enough to bake the under-crust. 

III. GREEN APPLE PIE. 

The first thing necessary to insure a good pie is 
a large, tart apple. Make a nice, rich pastry of one 
third butter and two thirds lard; rub into the flour 
lightly and thoroughly. Add a little salt, and mois- 
ten with cold water (if ice-water all the better) by 
adding a little at a time until you can press together 



68 THE " PRESS " PRIZE RECIPES. 

for rolling out. Line a medium sized pie-plate 
with this crust; then peel your apples and slice 
thin. Fill the plate very full and put the upper- 
crust on lightly. Bake. When done remove the 
upper-crust, and with a silver knife mash your ap- 
ples fine. Mix in one cup of granulated sugar a 
large spoonful of sweet butter, and nutmeg or 
lemon to taste. Then replace the upper-crust. 

112. MINCE-PIE. 

Boil your beef until tender and when cold chop 
fine. Prepare tart apples by peeling, coring, and 
chopping fine. Then by measure use double the 
quantity of apples that you have of beef. If the 
beef is very lean add one pound of nice suet, chop- 
ped fine, to every ten of beef. Then add fruit ac- 
cording to taste and convenience, but be sure to 
have the mince dark when completed. A can of 
black raspberries or jam of any kind, some quinces 
finely chopped, dried cherries or canned ones, rai- 
sins seeded and chopped, or plums, add a fine flavor 
and color. If this entire combination was repre- 
sented in one " get-up " of mince the flavor would 
be fine. But there is no iron-clad rule about a 
mince-pie. You can use the things at hand, only 
be sure to temper all with good sense and salt. To 
moisten use a part of the liquor in which the beef 
was boiled, some boiled cider if you have it, or the 
liquor from any spiced, sweet, fruit pickle. Noth- 
ing is better than this. A little vinegar is general- 
ly required to give it tone, and tart, or old cider. 



THE 



PRIZE RECIPES. 69 



Add molasses and brown sugar, but not so much as 
to prevent the addition of sugar when the pies are 
made. 

For spice use cloves and cinnamon. Have the 
whole when put together so moist that it can be 
readily stirred with a spoon. Place the whole in a 
pan and set on a kettle of water over the fire, or 
place in a porcelain kettle and heat gradually until 
scalding hot. It is then ready to use. A jar filled 
for winter use is very convenient, and glass fruit 
cans may be sealed full for summer. To make your 
pies, rub nice sweet lard into the flour untiljyou can 
take it into your hand and squeeze into form, which 
stays nicely together; then add a little salt and 
moisten with cold water by adding a little at a time, 
and stirring lightly with a knife until you can take 
it in your hands and press together for rolling out. 
Always keep some of the shortened flour to add if 
a little too moist. Cover your pie tins with crust, 
then put in the mince as already prepared. 

The mince should be so moist as to require a 
sprinkle of flour over the top. Grate nutmeg over 
the top of each pie. Place whole raisins over the 
top; also bits of butter and half a cup of granulated 
sugar sprinkled evenly over the top of each pie. 
The upper-crust should have small openings in the 
centre. Wet the under crust around the edge, that 
your pie may be properly sealed. 

This general rule for making mince-pie has taken 
the first premium at the largest fairs— without 
brandy or wine, although they can be added by 
those who wish them, 



70 THE "press" prize RECIPES. 



113. LEMON MERINGUE PIE. 

The grated rind and juice of one lemon, yelks of 
two eggs, one cup of sugar, two -tablespoons of 
flour, one cup of milk and a pinch of salt. Line pie 
plate with crust, pour in the lemon custard and 
bake from thirty to forty-five minutes. Beat the 
whites of two eggs to a stiff froth; add one table- 
spoonful of pulverized sugar. When the pie is 
baked spread the frosting evenly on top, and stand 
on the grate in the oven two or three minutes, or 
until it is slightly browned. 

114. PLAIN LEMON PIE. 

Grated rind and juice of one lemon, one cup of 
sugar, one egg. Beat together. Dissolve one table- 
spoon of cornstarch in a little water, pour on one 
cup of hot water and cook until it thickens. Then 
stir in with the Ggg, sugar and lemon. Make a nice 
crust of one cup of flour, one third of a cup of lard, 
pinch of salt. After mixing these thoroughly add 
a little water and mix as little as possible after the 
water is added. Bake with two crusts. Wet a 
piece of cotton cloth an inch wide and put around 
the edge of the pie to prevent cooking over. 

115. SQUASH PIE. 

Every one has a way of their own for making pie 
crust. Line as many deep plates with crust as you 
wish to make. An egg rubbed over the crust will 



71 

keep it from being soggy. For each pie one cup 
of sifted squash, one half cup of sugar, one quarter 
teaspoonful of cinnamon, one quarter teaspoonful 
of nutmeg, one Ggg and a little salt, two cups of 
boiling milk. Beat all together, stir into the milk; 
fill the crust and bake. It is better to put your 
dish of milk into a kettle of boiling water to boil; 
then there is no danger of scorching it. Serve the 
pie cold. 

ii6. PUMPKIN PIE. 

To one quart of stewed, strained pumpkin add 
four well beaten eggs, two quarts of milk, two thirds 
of a cup of sugar, and one teaspoonful of ground 
nutmeg; beat all well together and bake in a crust 
without cover. 

For crust, one pound of flour, half a pound of 
lard, a little salt, cold water to make into a stiff 
dough; this will be enough for four good-sized 
pies, 

117. CORNSTARCH PIE. 
One pint sweet milk, two heaping tablespoons 
sugar, yelks of two eggs, quarter of a teaspoon 
lemon. Put the mixture in a pail, set in kettle of 
water to heat. Mix two tablespoons cornstarch 
with a little milk and stir in the mixture m the 
pail; cook till it thickens and take from the water. 
Pour on a crust which has been previously baked; 
cover with frosting made from the whites of two 
eggs beateo §ti« ana mixed with two tablespoons 



72 THE "press" prize recipes. 

sugar. Put in oven and brown. This pie ought to 
be baked in quite a deep plate, and is best to be 
eaten the same day it is made. 

ii8. APPLE PIE. 

One coffee-cup sifted flour ; one third coffee-cup 
lard and butter mixed, sufficient ice cold water to 
make a soft dough; mix with a knife; roll thin; 
spread with butter, fold over three times and roll; 
repeat this for the lower crust, and three or four 
times for the upper. It should be done as quickly 
as possible and in a cool place. Fill the pie-pan 
with nice tart apples sliced very thin, cover with 
sugar and small pieces of butter, season with 
cinnamon and nutmeg, add two tablespoons of 
water, and sprinkle lightly with flour. Just before 
adding the upper crust dip the fingers in cold 
water and moisten the edge of the lower crust to 
prevent the juice from boiling out of the pie. 

119. CUSTARD PIE. 

Three eggs, three tablespoons sugar, a little salt 
and cinnamon, one teaspoon melted butter, one 
pint milk; do not have the oven too hot, and when 
done set on back of stove to cool before setting 
away from stove. 

120. SPANISH CREAM. 

One half box gelatine, one quart milk, five eggs, 
one cup sugar, flavoring. Soak the gelatine in the 



THE " PRESS " PRIZE RECIPES. 73 

milk one hour, then place it on the range, and when 
at boiling point stir in the well-beaten yolks of the 
eggs and the sugar; when it is boiling hot remove 
from the fire and stir in the beaten whites of eggs 
and flavoring; pour in small molds so that it can 
be served in dainty individual dishes. This is a 
very nice dessert. 



121. STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

Two heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
sifted into one quart of flour, scant half tea-cup of 
butter, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, a little salt, 
enough sweet milk or water to make a soft dough; 
roll out almost as thin as pie crust; place one layer 
in a baking-pan and spread with a very little but- 
ter, upon which sprinkle some flour, then add an- 
other layer of crust and spread as before, and so 
on until crust is all used. This makes four layers 
in a pan fourteen inches by seven. Bake about fif- 
teen minutes in a quick oven, turn upside down, 
take off the top layer (the bottom while baking), 
place on a dish, spread plentifully with straw- 
berries previously sweetened with pulverized sugar, 
place layer upon layer, treating each one in the 
same way, and when done to be served warm with 
cream and sugar. To have light dough, mix it 
quickly and handle as little as possible. Oranges 
can be used instead of strawberries ; remove the 
peel and white skin, cut into small pieces, sprinkle 
with sugar, and let stand a §hort time before using. 



u 



122. OLD FASHIONED GINGER BREAD. 

One cup of molasses, half a cup of cold water, 
half a cup of lard, one teaspoonful of soda, half a 
teaspoonful of ginger, one fourth of a teaspoonful 
of salt. 

Mix all well together, stir in flour sufficient to 
roll out; crease by drawing a fork across; cut in 
squares; bake in a hot oven; the whole depends 
on good molasses and working soft as possible. 



123. APPLE FRITTERS. 

Make a batter in proportion of one cup of sweet 
milk to two cups of flour, a heaping teaspoon 
of baking powder, two eggs beaten separately, one 
tablespoon sugar and saltspoon salt; heat the milk 
a little more than milk-warm. Add slowly to the 
beaten yelks and sugar, then add flour and whites 
of eggs; stir all together and throw in thin slices of 
good, sour apples, dipping the batter up over them; 
drop in boiling lard in large spoonfuls, with piece 
of apple in each, and fry to a light brown. Serve 
with maple syrup or a nice syrup made of sugar. 



124. RICE PUDDING. 

Boil in a farina kettle one pint of milk, half a cup- 
ful of raisins and one cupful of cold boiled rice. 
When the raisins are cooked stir in the yelks of two 
eggs, wet with a little milk, salt, spice, and sugar to 



"T»T?T7!«a" V-RIT.V. RECIPES. 75 



THE "PRESS 



taste. Let it cook three minutes, pour in a pud- 
ding-dish, spread a meringue of the whites on top 
and brown in the oven. To be eaten cold. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 

125. FRIED OYSTERS. 

First dry the oysters, then dip in yelks of eggs 
well beaten and seasoned, then roll in cracker-dust 
and lay on a board for fifteen minutes, then dip 
again in the egg and fry in boiling lard. Serve 
very hot as soon as dished. 

126. OYSTERS AND MACARONI. 

One pint of oysters, half cup butter, one and a 
half cups sweet milk, two eggs, one cup cracker 
dust, salt to taste; break the macaroni into inch 
pieces, put it into boiling water and boil twenty 
minutes; skim it out and put a thick layer of it in 
the bottom of a buttered pudding-dish; put the 
oysters and liquor on this with bits of butter and 
salt; add the remainder of the macaroni; beat the 
eggs well, mix with the milk, pour over and spread 
the cracker dust over the top; bake thirty minutes, 
or less if the oven is very hot; see that it is brown 
on top. 



76 THE 



127. WHITE SOUP. 

Take the clear stock of chicken, allowing a gill to a 
half pint for each person. To one quart of stock 
add the juice of one small onion, a teaspoonful of 
salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, a dash of cayenne, 
and a tablespoonful of rice previously boiled. 
Keep over the fire until near the boiling point. 
Then turn into a soup tureen and serve. 

128. CLAM CHOWDER. 

Place half a pound of salt pork in three quarts of 
cold water. Let it boil, then chop four onions and 
eight potatoes and put in same water. Open ten 
round clams, chop them fine and place in the stew. 
Take out the salt pork (which will now be soft 
enough to chop), chop and add it again to the stew. 
If the clams are very salt no additional salt will be 
required. Cook until done, which will be in about 
one hour, adding more water if it becomes neces- 
sary. Just before serving pour boiling milk over 
four pilot crackers, and when soft add to the chow- 
der. No other crackers will take the place of pilot 
crackers, and they must be softened in hot milk, to 
make the best clam chowder known. 

129. OX TAIL SOUP. 

Take two ox tails and cut them into small pieces; 
put them into a pot (without any water) until 
brown, then pour on about one and a quarter gal- 



fHE "press" prize REC1PE5S. 'J"? 

Ions of water; add one turnip, a carrot, one onion 
cut in small pieces, some celery, parsley, and leek; 
also whole pepper and cloves and one can of toma- 
toes. Let boil slowly for three hours. In the 
meantime brown about one cup of flour in oven. 
Strain your soup and thicken with the browned 
flour, then add one wineglass of claret and one 
wineglass of catsup and salt to taste. 

130. CORNED BEEF SOUP. 

Let seven pounds of cheapest cut of corned beef 
be soaked and parboiled so as to remove the sur- 
plus salt, then simmer slowly three hours. Let the 
liquor stand until all the fat rises. Skim off the 
fat. Add a quart of tomatoes, two carrots, two 
small white turnips, two onions, and four large po- 
tatoes, all pared and sliced thin. Let simmer one 
hour. Strain and serve the soup hot, reserving the 
cooked vegetables for a salad. 

131. SALMON CUTLETS EN PAPILLOTE. 

Dry three or four slices of salmon and lay in 
melted butter. Dust lightly with pepper and wrap 
in well-buttered white paper; stitch down the ends 
of each cover. Fry in nice drippings or lard. They 
will be done in ten minutes unless very thick. Have 
ready clean, hot papers, fringed at the ends; slip 
quickly, lest they cool in the process, into the fresh 
covers; give the ends a twist ana serve on a heated 
dish. 



% THE 



132. UNRIVALED CLAM FRITTERS. 

Take from the shell twenty-five medium-sized 
hard shell clams and drain in a colander for a few- 
minutes, after which chop them moderately fine and 
mix well in a batter made as follows: Take one egg 
beaten well, five tablespoonfuls sweet milk, pinch 
of salt, baking soda about the size of a pea, and mix 
with flour enough to make a thin batter. On a 
good fire have a pan ready containing equal parts 
of butter and lard for frying. Drop your fritters in 
the boiling fat, a tablespoonfulof the batter to each, 
and cook quickly, turning over to brown nicely on 
both sides. Take out as soon as brown and eat 
while hot. 

133. HOW TO BROIL SHAD. 

Shad is the most economical fish we have in the 
months of April and May. The fish should be split 
down the back and cooked as fresh as possible. 
Salt and pepper it well, rubbing it in thoroughly. 
Place in a wire broiler and cook over a hot fire until 
well browned, turning but once. Add a few bits 
of butter when placed upon a hot platter. Serve 
with fried potatoes. 

134. SALMON CROQUETTES. 

To a small salmon picked up fine add a large cup 
of crackers, three eggs well beaten, butter, salt, 
and pepper. Then moisten with cream to the con- 



THE " PRESS ^' PRIZE RECIPeS* ^0 

sistency to roll in shape. Roll in cracker crumbs 
and fry in very hot fat, as crullers. 

135. BAKED RED SNAPPER. 

Make a dressing of fine stale bread (that of brown 
bread of flour of entire wheat is best), season with 
good butter, pepper, and salt. Fill the fish and 
fasten the twine. Sprinkle with bits of butter and 
pepper and salt. Dredge with flour. Bake one 
hour, or until very tender. Serve with sauce of 
drawn butter, taking care to keep the large white 
flakes of the fish from breaking. Garnish with 
parsley and fried potatoes. 

136. CODFISH BALLS. 

Cook salt codfish by soaking in water, but do 
not let it boil. Boil the potatoes and mash. Let 
both fish and potatoes get thoroughly cold. Use a 
third more codfish than potatoes. Mix and moisten 
with a cream gravy made of a large size piece of 
butter, some milk, and flour to thicken. Form in 
balls and fry in hot fat. 

137. OMELET. 

Six eggs, white and yelks beaten separately; half 
pint milk, six teaspoons corn starch, one teaspoon 
baking powder, and one teaspoon salt; melt a heap- 
ing tablespoon of butter in a frying-pan, and when 
the mixture has set add the whites, beaten to a stiff 



80 THE "press" prize RECIPES. 

froth; cut in two in the center and turn one half 
over the other before sending to the table. 

138. HAM OMELET. 

Chop the ham very fine; add twice the quantity 
of bread crumbs; an egg to each teacupful of the 
mixture; heat the frying-pan, and have ready some 
melted butter to fry without sticking; put in the 
mixture like large, thin pancakes, molding into 
shape with a spoon; when brown turn carefully. 

139. EGG SALAD. 

Boil hard one dozen fresh eggs. When cold, 
chop fine, with the stalks and tender leaves of a 
large root of celery and a large handful of fresh 
green parsley. Pour over the mixture a sauce 
made by rubbing together a dessert spoonful of 
mustard, with the same quantity of salt and two 
spoonfuls of granulated sugar, into which beat well 
five spoonfuls of olive oil and seven of vinegar. 

140. FRITTERS. 

Two eggs, well beaten, two tablespoons melted 
lard, two thirds cup sweet milk, one heaping tea- 
spoon baking powder, little salt and flour to make 
a stiff batter; drop from a spoon (small) into hot 
lard; let cook to a nice brown; try with broom 
splint to tell when thoroughly done. To be eaten 
with maple syrup or melted sugar. 



THE "press'* prize RECIPES. 81 



^ 141. CORN STARCH PATTIES. 

Take one teacupful powdered sugar, one teacup- 
ful corn starch, two eggs, one teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar, one half teaspoonful of soda, three table- 
spoonfuls of sweet milk, three tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter, two tablespoonfuls of flour; flavor 
with lemon extract. Bake in pattie pans; take from 
oven, and while hot sprinkle with powdered sugar. 



142. OLD FASHIONED WAFFLES. 

f wo quarts of milk, six eggs, one pound butter, 
a bowl sponge, little salt. If you want them for 
6 o'clock dinner or tea, make your sponge ii a.m., 
and for this take one and a half pints water, stir 
flour in until stiff, dissolve one yeast cake (com- 
pressed), and stir in also, cover with plate and stand 
in warm place. As soon as light (which will be 
very soon after dinner) mix your waffles. Use a 
large stone pot, same size top and bottom. Have 
milk warm, bntter soft enough to mix well, and 
eggs beaten; pour all in stone pot, also sponge; stir 
in flour until considerable thicker than gridle cakes, 
stand in warm place, and when light are ready to 
bake in a waffle iron. For a sauce, heat milk with 
a little butter in, cover each waffle with powdered 
sugar and pour over the hot milk. This is the old- 
fashioned Dutch way of making waffles. 



82 THE ^' press" PRT^E EJECiP]^^, 



143. ENGLISH BANBURY CAKES. 

Rub two thirds of a cup of lard through two 
cups of flour with a pinch of salt, then add about a 
half cup of water; stir together with a knife; do 
not mix. Roll out as for pie crust and cut out 
with a quart oyster pail cover, or about four inches 
in diameter. Filling — One cup of seeded raisins, 
rind and juice of one lemon, one cup sugar, five 
figs. Chop figs and raisins, mix all together, and 
put a teaspoonful on each round of paste, wet the 
edges and lap one side of the paste over, pinch the 
edges together and stick holes in the top of each 
with a fork. Bake from twenty minutes to one 
half hour. This recipe makes one dozen and a 
half of cakes. 

144. PEACH TROJA. 

Line a glass dish with lady fingers, fill in with 
ripe peaches, pared and cut small, or sliced. Whip 
half a pint of cream till firm, spread over the 
peaches. Serve with cream sweetened and flavored 
with vanilla. 

145. SHERRY JELLY. 

One-quarter package of gelatine, one cup of fine 
white sugar, one wine-glass of good sherry. Dis- 
solve the gelatine in two cups and a half of warm 
water (not hot) by putting it over the steam of a 
tea kettle or in a pan of hot water, stirring all the 



The ^^ press*' prize reciI>es. 83 

time. When dissolved add sugar and strain 
through a cloth; when cold put in the sherry and 
whip for fifteen minutes with a good egg beater; 
turn into a glass dish. It is best to make it the 
night before needed, so it may be well set,although 
not intended to be in a solid mold. 



146. MINCE MEAT. 

One cup chopped meat, one and a half cups 
raisins, same of currants, same of brown sugar, 
one cup granulated sugar, one third cup molasses, 
three cups chopped apples, one cup meat liquor; 
two teaspoonfuls salt, same of cinnamon, half 
teaspoonful mace, same of cloves, one lemon, 
chopped; quarter pound citron, half cup brandy, 
quarter cup wine, half pint jelly. 

Do not put in the brandy and wine until meat is 
cooked. Cider and vinegar can be used in place of 
brandy and wine if preferred. Use a piece of solid 
lean meat cut from the round. As the apples vary 
in flavor it is best to season to taste. This makes 
four pies. 

147. TONGUE OR HAM SANDWICHES. 

Qhop fine the lean of cold boiled tongue or ham, 
season with prepared mustard and black pepper, 
add melted butter and sweet cream until smooth 
like a paste, then spread between buttered slices of 
bread. 



81: THE "press 



148. MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 

Mix in a large bowl one teaspoonful each of 
mustard and salt with one and a half of vinegar; 
beat in the yolk of one raw egg and gradually 
beating meanwhile a half pint of the best quality 
of sweet olive oil until the mixture become a thick, 
even batter. This may be kept closely covered in 
a cold place for many weeks, and when used ma)^ 
be flavored with fresh lemon juice or a little vine- 
gar. It is the most delicious of all salad sauces. 

149. WELSH RAREBIT. 

Cut off the crusts of thin slices of bread and 
toast to a nice brown. Spread with butter and 
cover with thin slices of rich cheese. Spread over 
with a little prepared mustard and put in the oven 
until the cheese is soft. Then cut in pieces and 
serve immediately on hot dishes. 

150. QUAILS ROASTED WITH HAM. 

Clean, truss and stuff as usual. Cover the entire 
bird with thin slices of corned ham or pork and 
wrap with a sheet of white paper, binding with 
buttered thread. Baste frequently with butter and 
water that they may not burn. Roast three quar- 
ters of an hour. Remove the papers and meat 
before sending to table and brown quickly. 



THE "PEESS" PRIZE EECIPES. 85 



151. CARAMEL OR BURNT SUGAR. 

For coloring soups, sauces, and gravies, put one 
cup sugar and two teaspoonfuls water in a sauce- 
pan on the fire. Stir constantly until it is quite a 
dark color, then add a half cup water and a pinch 
of salt. Let it boil a few minutes and when cold 
bottle. 

152. LAMB CHOPS (BROILED.) 

Take rib chops, wipe with a damp cloth, place in 
a tin; salt and pepper them and put into oven, let- 
ting them remain until done through. Then take 
them and place on broiler just long enough to 
brown nicely. When done place on platter; butter 
them and serve. Do not have your fire too hot, as 
it is apt to burn them. I also cook '' Broiled 
Chicken " in this way. 



153. ROAST BEEF. 

Buy the second cut of beef, say about six to eight 
pounds. Have your butcher trim it and make into 
a round, holding it in place with wooden skewers. 
Salt well; put in spider; place in oven, which should 
be of an even heat. When it becomes hot enough 
to "hiss," put in a little warm water. It will take 
from two to two and a half hours to roast a piece 
of meat this size. Be sure and keep water enough 
in spider, else your meat will burn and stick tp 



86 THE "press" prize recipes. 

your spider, makii.g your gravy (if you use it) un- 
lit for use. I am not obliged to baste my meat, as 
my range cooks the meat very tender and retains 
all the juices. While I am not writing up the 
merits of different stoves, I do wish all housekeep- 
ers could see for themselves the advantages the 
range with a gauze oven-door posseses over other 
ranges. 

154. TO COOK ASPARAGUS. 

Scrape the stems of the asparagus lightly, but 
very clean. Throw them into cold water, then tie 
in bunches of equal size. Cut the large ends even- 
ly, that the stems may be all of the same length, 
and put the asparagus into plenty of boiling water, 
with a little salt while it is boiling; cut slices of bread 
half inch thick, pare off the crust and toast it a del- 
icate brown on both sides. When the stalks of the 
asparagus are tender, lift it out directly, or it will 
lose its color and flavor, and will be liable to break. 
Now dip the toast quickly into the liquor in which 
the asparagus was boiled, and dish the asparagus 
upon it with the points meeting in the center. 
Pour over rich melted butter, and serve hot. 



155. ROAST MUTTON WITH TOMATOES. 

Take one nice hindquarter of mutton, wash it, 
rub it with salt and pepper, put it into a baking-pan 
with a pint of water, and baste it well. Then pre- 
pare some tomatoes in the following manner: 



THE " PRESS " PRIZE RECIPES. 87 

Take one dozen large, full, ripe tomatoes. Slit 
them into four, but do not sever the pieces entirely 
at the bottom. Make a stuffing of some bread, 
crumbs, pepper, salt, butter and a very little sugar. 
Mix it well, remove part of the seed from the toma- 
toes, and fill with the stuffing; put them in and roast 
with the mutton. When done put them in the dish 
around the mutton and pour over some gravy. 
Tomatoes done in this manner make a delicious ac- 
companiment to all kinds of cooked meats. 



156. BROILED STEAK. 

Have your steak cut about three fourths or one 
half inch in thickness, place the gridiron over clear 
fire and rub the bars with fat; place the beefsteak 
on it and broil, turning frequently, carefully pick- 
ing fork through fat, for if the steak itself is 
pricked gravy will run out, and it will harden. 
Have ready a hot dish on which you have placed a 
lump of butter size of large walnut; when done lay 
on hot dish, rub with butter, and serve as quickly 
as possible. 



157. MUTTON CHOPS BROILED. 

Cut some chops from the best end of the loin, 
trim neatly, removing the skin or fat, leaving only 
enough fat to make them palatable; place the chops 
on a gridiron over a very clear fire; turn them fre- 
quently, taking care that the fork is not put into 



88 THE " PRESS '' PRIZE RECIPES. 

the lean part of the chop. Season with pepper and 
salt. When done put a piece of fresh butter over 
each chop, and send them to the table on a hot 
dish; time, lo minutes to cook. 



158. SUCCOTASH. 

Take six ears of nice tender corn, cut off grains 
from cob, and mix with one pint of young Lima 
beans; after boiling them well in salt and water, 
drain through a colander and place at once into a 
pan-cover to keep hot. Have ready two eggs well 
beaten with one ounce of butter; pour this mixture 
over the corn and beans, adding pepper and salt to 
taste. Serve hot. 



159. BOILED HAM. 

Take a ham, say of ten or twelve pounds, pour 
boiling water over it, and let it cool enough to 
wash and scrape it clean; put in a large kettle, 
cover with cold water; let boil a minute, then place 
it on the back part of the stove to let simmer stead- 
ily six hours. Be careful to keep the water at a 
low point, and do not allow it to get much above 
it. Turn the ham over once or twice. Remove 
the skin from the ham when done, set in the oven, 
placing the lean side downward ; sift over pow- 
dered crackers and bake one hour : this brings 
out a quantity of fat, leaving the ham more deli- 
cate, and it will keep much longer in warm 
weather, 



THE "press" peize eecipes. 89 



i6o. MUTTON CHOPS, BROILED. 

Select good fat chops from the fore-quarter, cut 
thick; remove the bone from one and press the 
meat closely to the other; also trim off the meat 
from the small part of the bone two or three inches, 
to serve as a handle. Broil over a brisk fire of 
charcoal, turning frequently until done to fancy. 
Serve on a hot platter and garnish the chops by 
neatly wrapping around the handle of each clear 
white paper, and lay a sprig of fresh celery-top 
on each chop. 



VEGETABLES. 

i6i. STUFFED CABBAGE. 

Cut out the heart of a large cabbage by spread- 
ing back the leaves — to do which without breaking, 
pour over it boiling water; fill the vacancy with 
finely chopped and cooked veal or chicken, and roll 
in balls with the yolk of eggs. Tie it firmly 
together, and boil in a covered kettle two hours, 

162. FRIED SQUASH. 

Slice the squash thin, fry slowly in butter and 
lard, being very careful not to let it stick to the 
pan; brown nicely on each side, remove to a warm 
platter, put butter, salt, and pepper over it. Serve 
hot. 



90 THE 



163. BAKED ONIONS. 

Wash the onions, but do not peel; put in a sauce 
pan cover with salted water; boil an hour, replac- 
ing the water with more boiling water as it evap- 
erates; turn off the water and lay the onions on a 
cloth to dry them well; roll each one in a piece of 
buttered tissue paper, twisting it at the top to keep 
it on, and bake in a slow oven one hour; brown 
slightly, basting well with butter, for fifteen min- 
utes; season with salt and pepper, and pour some 
melted butter over them. 



PASTRY. 

164. CREAM PIE. 

To each pie, one cup sugar, three eggs, these 
thoroughly beaten with a little salt and nutmeg, 
one cup of sweet cream, using sweet milk to finish 
filling the crust. 

Fie crust. — Allow to each pie one cup sifted flour, 
a small pinch of salt, one fourth teaspoon baking 
powder, one large tab'^espoon lard. Pour your cold 
water in, — ice-water if you have it, a little at a time, 
and be sure not to over- wet the flour. Do not 
mould or handle it but mix with a knife, and roll 
it out soft as possible. Slow oven is essential in 
pie baking. 



THE "press" prize RECIPES. 91 



163. CLAM FRITTERS. 

One Ggg, one-half cup milk, one teaspoon baking- 
powder, one cup flour, twelve hard-shell clams 
chopped fine. Stir all together, and fry in hot fat 
same as crullers. 

Omit the clams, and use, with the above, one pint 
greencorn chopped fine, one half teaspoon pepper, 
one half spoon salt, one half teaspoon sugar, and 
small tablespoon butter. Fry in the same manner. 



164. CHICKEN PIE. 

Just as your husband's "mother used to make it." 

Cut into pieces and boil, four chickens. Remove 
the larger bones — all of them. Cook in sufficient 
water to make plenty of gravy, and leave it on the 
boiled chicken. Add salt and pepper to taste. 
Thicken the gravy with a couple of tablespoons of 
flour well blended with a little cold water. Leave 
no lumps of flour. 

This will fill your pie, which must be baked in a 
four-quart pudding-dish. (Though if you use a 
tin pan, it will look more like " mother's.") Now 
for the crust. 

One and a half quarts flour in your sieve, five 
teaspoons (pretty full) of Royal Baking Powder, 
teaspoon salt. Sift all together once or twice. 
Then rub into flour a cup of butter. Then with a 
spoon mix a soft batter with milk. Mix it so soft 
you can just barely mix afterwards with hands and 



92 THE 

roll out. Roll one half of it about half an inch 
thick, and line your dish; be sure and let the crust 
come well up around and over the edge of the dish. 
Now put in your chicken, and cover with the re- 
mainder of the crust about the same thickness, and 
cover. Pinch the edges firmly together and on your 
top crust make the "quirly " flower mother used to 
put on. Bake an hour in a quick oven. Let stand 
fifteen or twenty minutes before sending to table. 
Then don't put onto your table a great variety of 
other good things to spoil the pie; and if you can 
by some means find for your good man the appetite 
he brought home from school with him when a 
healthy, hearty, growing boy, and sat down with a 
dozen others, ready to devour whatever was set be- 
fore him, I venture to say he'll enjoy that pie 
and declare it was " almost as good as mother's." 



IMPORTANT NOTICE. 

The Press prints new recipes in its Daily, Sun- 
day and Weekly Editions regularly. 



ARE YOU THINKING ABOUT 
BUILDING A HOUSE? 




If you are, you ought to buy the new book, I^alliser's 
Aiiierican Architect ui^et or every man a complete builder, 
prepared by Palliser, Palliser & Co., the well known architects. 

There is not a Builder or any one intending to Build or 
otherwise interested that can afford to be without it. It is a 
practical work and everybody buys it. The best, cheapest and 
most popular work ever issued on building. Nearly four hun- 
dred drawings. A $5 book in size and style, but we have deter- 
mined to make it meet the popular demand, to suit the times, so 
that it can be easily reached by all. 

This book contains 104 pages 11 x 14 inches in size, and con- 
sists of large 9 x 12 plate pages giving plans, elevations, per- 
spective views, descriptions, owners' names, actual cost of con- 
struction, tio guess tvork^ and instructions How to Build 
70 Cottages, Villas, Double Houses, Brick Block Houses, suitable 
for city suburbs, town and country, houses for the farm and 
workingmen's homes for all sections of the country, and costing 
from $300 to $6,500 ; also Barns, Stables, School House, Town 
Hall, Churches, and other public buildings, together with speci- 
fications, form of contract, and a large amount of information on 
the erection of buildings, selection of site, employment of Archi- 
tects. It is worth $5.00 to any one, but I will send it in paper 
cover.by mail postpaid on receipt of $1.00; bound in cloth, |2.00. 

Address all orders to J. S. OGILVIE, Publishek, 
P. O. Box 3767. 67 Rose St., New York. 



WORTH 



Ogiivie's Pocket Manual and Universal 

ASSISTANT. 

One Million Useful Facts and Figures. 
IT IS WORTH $5.00 BUT COSTS ONLY 25 CENTS. 

The times are peculiarly- 
calculated, to increase every 
person's desire to make and 
save money. New and im- 
proved management of busi- 
ness and financial affairs, 
and economy in daily expen- 
ses of all kinds, are the uni- 
versal study. And almost 
everyone has felt the need— 
the great nnd pressing need, 
sometimes— of a concise and 
throughly PRa' TI^-AL hand 
book, calculated to aid him 
in his piaiis of thrift and 
manageaient. Especially is 
there a demand for a low- 
priced volume of this charac- 
ter, for the self -education of 
young men and young w^o- 
men for the realities of life 
on the farm, and in the 
covmting-room, the vi^ork- 
shop, and the household. 

To meet this great popu- 
lar want, this valuable work 
has been prepared. 1 1 is a re- 
markable book. It contains 
a larger amount of valuable 
information on practical 
matters, in shape for ready use, than can be bought in any other form for 
$15.00, yet is sold at only 25 cents. It is invaluable to Every Farmer, 
Every Mechanic, Every Workman, Every Book-keeper, Every Tradesman, 
Every Machinist, Every Clerk, Every Investor, Every Land Owner, Every 
Housekeeper, Every Professional Man, Every Letter Writer, Every Patentee, 
Every Author, in fact no person v/ho can read the English language should be 
without a copy of it. Bound in limp cloth, 25 cents ; heavy silk cloth, 
50 cents. 

Send 25 Cents at once for a sample copy and agents terms. 

It contains about 250 pages and is for sale by every newsdealer and book- 
seller in the United States, and on all trains, or it will be sent by mail, postpaid, 
on receipt of price, by 

J. S. OOILVIK, Publisher, 
P, O. Box 2767. 57 Rose Street, New York. 




03-^^25^ 




< A COMPLETE STORY IN EACH NUMBER. > 



^'rll^:!'^ J. S. O&ILVIE, PuDlisHer, 57 Rose street, Mw Yorlf. 



50 Cents. 
Per Year. 



I desire to call your attention to this new publication offer- 
ing complete stories at the nominal price of five cents each. 

Each number is bound in handsome paper cover and contains 
a complete story by a popular American or English Author, 
among v^hom are May Agnes Fleming, ''Author of Dora 
Thorne," Charles Dickens, Charles Reade, Mrs. O. F. Walton, 
" Author of A Bad Boy's Diary," William Black, Mary Cecil 
Hay. 

The following stories (complete) are in the first six numbers : 



No. 1. Fated to Marry. 

By May Agnks Fleming. 
" 2. Blunders of a Bashful Man. 
By " Author of A Bad Boy's 
Diary.'" 
*' 3. Ninety-Nine Recitations and 
Readings. 



No. 4. The Lost Bank Note. 

By Mrs. Henry Wood, 
*' 5. Wedded and Parted. 

By "Author of Dora Thorne." 
" 6. Christie's Old Organ. 

By Mrs. O. F. Walton. 



All who read choice fiction can at once see the advantage of 
this publication over those which have continued stories from 
week to week or from month to month, as in this publication 
every story is com%)lete, and they are not sliort sketches, but 
stories which if issued in regular book form would make from 
180 to 350 pages each. Price of each number^ otily 5 
cents. It is issued monthly. Sold by all booksellers and news- 
dealers, or mailed to any address on receipt of price by 

J. S. OGILVIE, Publisher, 

57 Rose Street, New York. 



THE SCIENCE OF A NEW LIFE. 

BY JOHN COWAN, M. D. 

A Book "Well Worth Possessing "bj Every Thoughtful 
Man and Woman. 

TiTE " Science of a New Life " has received the highest teptimonials atvl com- 
fttendations from leading medical and religious critics; has been heartily endorsed 
by all the leading philanthropists, and recommended to every well-wisher of the 
human race. 

TO ALL WHO ABE MARRIED 

Or are contemplating marriage, it will give information wortk HTTTSTDREDS OP 
DOLLARS, besides conferring a lasting benefit, not onlr upr.n them, l)ut upon 
their children. Every thinking man and woman should study this work. Any 
person desiring to know more about the book before purchasing it, may send to ua 
for our 16-pftge descriptive circular, giving full and complete table of contents. 
It will be sent free by mail to any address. The following is the table of con- 
tents. 

Marriage and its advantages; Age at which to marry; The Law of choice; Love 
Analyzed; Qualities the Man Should Avoid in Choosing; Oualities the Woman 
Should Avoid in Choosing; The Anatomy and Physiology of Generation in Wo- 
men; The Anatomy and Physiology of Generation In Man; Amativeness— its 
Use and Abuse; The Prevention of Conception; The law of Continence; Children 
—Their Desirability; The Law of Genius; The Conception of a New Life; Th? 
Physiology of Inter-Uterine Growth; Period of Geelative Influence; Pregnancy; 
—Its Signs and Duration; Disorders of Pregnancy; Confinement; Management a(' 
Mother and Child after Delivery; Period of Nursing Influence; Foeticide; Disease! 
peculiar to Women; Diseases Peculiar to Men; Masturbation; Sterility; and Im- 
potence; Subjects of which More Might be Said; A Happy Married Life— How 
Secured. 

The book is a handsome 8V0, and contains over 400 PAGES, with more than 
100 ILLUSTRATIONS, and is sold at the following PRICES— ENGLISH CLOTH, 
LEVELED BOARDS, GILT SIDE AND BACK, $3.00; LEATHER, SPRINKLED 
EDGES, $3.50; HALF TURKEY MOROCCO, MARBLED EDGES, GILT BACK, 
$4.00. Sent by mail, post-paid, to any address, on receipt of price. 

COMMENDATIONS. 

••In a careful examination of Dr. Cowan's SCIENCE OF A NEW iMFE. I 
am prepared to give it my very cordial approval. It deserves to be in every family> 
and read and pondered, as closely relating to the highest moral and physical well-. 

beiag of all its members The essential remedy for these 

great evils is to be found in Dr. Cowan'n work; therefore, may it be circulated far 
and wide." William Lloyd GARRisOi>i. 

" As it is easier to generate a race of healthy men and women than to regenerate 
the diseased and discordant humanity we now have, I heartily recommend the study 
of THE SCIENCE OF A NEW LIFE to every father and mother in the land." 

Elizabeth Cady Stanton. 

"It seema to ns to be one of the wisest, and purest, and most helpful of those 
Books which have been written in recent years, with the intention of teaching 
Men and Women the Truths about their Bodies, which are of peculiar importance 

to the morals of Society No one can begin to imagine the misery that 

kas come upon the human family solely through ignorance upon this subject." 

Thk Christian Union. 

If, after reading the above, jon wi«h to get a copy of the book, send us the 
money by Post-office order or registered letter, and we will send it by return mail. 

Agents wanted to whom we offer liberal terms. Send to us at ouce for our 
confidential terms, and sta.e what territory you can work to advantage. 

Address all orders and applications for an agency to 

J. S. OGILVIE Piilblisiier , 

p. o. BOX »767. :ros:e sxreet, new stomk. 



THE PRESS. 



SUNDAY EDITION. 



Contains more articles of inter- 
est to the Ladies tlian any other 
Sunday paper in the world. 

It is conceded to be THE BEST 

SUNDAY PAPER PUBLISHED. 



Sold by all dealers, or isent by mail. 

THE PRESS, 

26 & 28 N. WILLIAM ST., 

New York. 



TIE PRESS, 

26 & 28 N. WILLIAM STREET, 



isrE"v;r ttobk:. 



THE LARGEST CIRCULATION 



-OF ANY- 



Republican Paper in America. 



TXTEE 



RATES : 

{POSTAGE PAID,) 

Daily, 1 year, - - - $3.00 

Sunday, 1 year, - - - 2,50 

Weekly, 1 year, - - - 1 .00 

SEND FOR SAMPLE COPY, 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 





