UC-NRLF 




III III III 





$B bbT 2flfl 




THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 

OF CALIFORNIA 

DAVIS 



Digitized by tine Internet Archive 

in 2006 witii funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



littp://www.arcliive.org/details/clioicecookeryOOowenricli 



CHOICE COOKERY 



BY 



• CATHERINE OWEN 

AUTHOR OP 
' TEN DOLLARS ENOUGH " "GENTLE BREAD WINNERS " ETC. 



NEW YORK 

HARPER & BROTHERS, FRANKLIN SQUARE 

1889 






Copyright, 1889, by Harper k Brothers. 



All rights reserved. 



PREFACE. 



Choice cookery is not intended for house- 
holds that have to study economy, except 
where economy is a relative term ; where, 
perhaps, the housekeeper could easily spend 
a dollar for the materials of a luxury, but 
could not spare the four or five dollars a 
caterer would charge. 

Many families enjoy giving little dinners, 
or otherwise exercising hospitality, but are 
debarred from doing so by the fact that 
anything beyond the ordinary daily fare 
has to be ordered in, or an expensive extra 
cook engaged. And although we may re- 
gret that hospitality should ever be depend- 
ent on fine cooking, we have to take things 



iv 



PREFACE. 



as they are. It is not every hostess who 
loves simplicity that dares to practise it. 

It was to help the women w^ho wish to 
know at a glance what is newest and best 
in modern cookery that these chapters were 
written for Ilarjper's Bazar, and are now 
gathered into a book. It is hoped by the 
writer that the copious details and simplifi- 
cation of different matters will enable those 
who have already achieved success in the 
plainer branches of cookery to venture fur- 
ther, and realize for themselves that it is 
only the "first step that costs." 

I have to acknowledge my indebtedness 
to Mrs. Clarke, of the South Kensington 
School of Cookery, to Madame de Salis, and 
those epicurean friends who have cast their 
nets in foreign waters, and sent me the dain- 
tiest fish they caught. 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER PAGE 

I. Introduction 1 

II. Sauces 11 

III. White Sauces 23 

IV. Brown Sauces 33 

V. Cold Sauces 42 

VI. Soups 51 

VII. Fish Entrees 01 

VIII. Various Ways of Serving Oysters . . 71 

IX. Various Culinary Matters 79 

X. Entrees 86 

XL Entrees op Mutton Cutlets or Chops . 98 
XII. On the Manner of Preparing Cro- 
quettes, Cutlets, Kromeskies, Ris- 
soles, and Cigarettes 107 

XIII. Patties 116 

XIV. Entrees 125 

XV. ENTUEES—coiiiiiiued 134 

XVI. EwniEES—contmued 143 

XVII. Cold Entrees, or Chaudfroids . . . 153 



Vi CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER PAGE 

XVIII. Cold Entrees 162 

XIX. Galantines, Ballotines, etc. . . .172 
XX. How TO "Fillet."— Cold Game Pies . 181 

XXI. Garnishes 191 

XXII. Various Ways of Serving Vegetables 199 

XXIII. Jellies 208 

XXIV. Jellies — continued 217 

XXV. Cold Sweets.— Creams 226 

XXVI. Creams and Frozen Puddings . . . 235 

XXVII. Iced Puddings 243 

XXVIII. Ice creams and Water ices .... 252 

XXIX. Miscellaneous Sweets 262 

XXX. Miscellaneous ^vf^EKi^— continued . . 271 
XXXI. Miscellaneous ^vfE.KT&— continued . . 281 

XXXII. Fine Cakes and Sauces 291 

XXXIII. Salads and Cheese Dishes .... 300 
Index 309 



CHOICE COOKERY. 



I. 

INTRODUCTION. 

By choice cookery is meant exactly what 
the words imply. There will be no attempt 
to teach family or inexpensive cooking, those 
branches of domestic economy having been 
so excellently treated by capable hands al- 
ready. It may be said en jpassant^ however, 
that even choice cooking is not necessarily 
expensive. Many dishes cost little for the 
materials, but owe their daintiness and ex- 
pensiveness to the care bestowed in cook- 
ing or to a fine sauce. For instance : cod, 
one of the cheapest of fish, and considered 
coarse food as usually served, becomes an 
1 



2 CHOICE COOKERY. 

epicurean dish when served with a fine Hol- 
landaise or oyster sauce, and it will not even 
then be more expensive than any average- 
priced boiling fish. Flounder served as sole 
Normande conjures up memories of the fa- 
mous Philippe, whose fortune it made, or it 
may be of luxurious little dinners at other 
famous restaurants, and is suggestive, in fact, 
of anything but economy. Yet it is really 
an inexpensive dish. 

But Avhile it is quite true that fine cook- 
ing does not always mean expensive cooking, 
it is also true that it requires the best mate- 
rials and sufficient of them ; that if satis- 
factory results are to be obtained there must 
be no attempt to stint or change proportions 
from a false idea of economy, although it 
must never be forgotten that all good cook- 
ing is economical, by which I mean that 
there is no waste, every cent's worth of ma- 
terial being made to do its full duty. 

In this book the object will be to give 
the newest and most recherche dishes, and 



INTRODUCTION.- 3 

these will naturally be expensive. Yet for 
those families who depend upon the caterer 
for everything in the way of fine soups, 
entrees, or sauces, because the cook can 
achieve only the plain part of the dinner, it 
will be found a great economy as well as 
convenience to be independent of this out- 
side resource, which is always very costly, 
and invariably destroys the individuality of 
a repast. Many new recipes will be given, 
and others little known in private kitchens, 
or thought to be quite beyond the attainment 
of any but an accomplished chef. But if strict 
attention be paid to small matters, and the di- 
rections faithfully carried out, there will be no 
difficulty in a lady becoming her own chef. 

I propose to begin with sauces. This is 
reversing the usual mode, and yet I think 
the reader will not regret the innovation. 
The cooking to be taught in these pages, 
being emphatically what is popularly known 
as " Delmonico cooking," very much depends 
on the excellence of the sauces served with 



4 CHOICE COOKERY. 

each dish ; and as it is no time to learn to 
make a fine sauce when the dish it is served 
with is being cooked, I think the better plan 
is to give the sauces first. They will be fre- 
quently referred to, but no repetition of the 
recipes will be given. 

Before proceeding further I will say a few 
words that may save time and patience here- 
after. Of course it is not expected that any 
one will hope to succeed with elaborate dish- 
es without understanding the principles of 
simple cooking, but many do this without 
perceiving that in that knowledge they hold 
the key to very much more, and I Avould ask 
readers who are in earnest about the matter 
to acquire the habit of putting two and two 
together in cooking as they would in fancy- 
work. If you know half a dozen embroidery 
or lace stitches, you see at once that you can 
produce the elaborate combinations in which 
those stitches are used. So it is with cooking. 
The most elaborate dish will only be a com- 
bination of two or three simpler processes 



INTRODUCTION. 5 

of cooking, jperfectly done — that is a sine 
qua nor. — something fried, roasted, boiled, or 
braised to perfection, and a sauce that no 
chef could improve upon ; but to recognize 
that this is so — that when you can make a 
Chateaubriand sauce or a Bearnaise perfect- 
ly, and can saute a steak, the famed filets a 
la Chateaubriand or a la Bearnaise are no 
longer a mystery, or that one who can make 
clear meat jelly and roast a chicken has 
learned all but the arrangement of a chaud- 
froid in aspic — will make apparently com- 
plicated dishes simple. 

I go into these matters because I hope to 
cause my readers to thi7ik about the recipes 
they will use, when they will see for them- 
selves that even the finest cooking is not in- 
tricate nor in any way diificult. It requires 
intelligence and great care about details : no 
half -attention will do, any more than it will 
in any other thing we attempt, whether it be 
high art or domestic art. 

In making sauces or reading recipes for 



6 CHOICE COOKERY. 

them it simplifies matters to remember that 
in savory sauces — by which I mean those 
served with meats or fish — ^there are what 
the French call the two "mother sauces," 
white sauce and brown ; all others, with few 
exceptions, are modifications of these two; 
that is to say, bechamel is only white sauce 
made with white stock and cream instead of 
milk ; allemande is the same, only yolks of 
eggs replace the cream ; and so on through 
the long list of sauces belonging to the blond 
variety. The simple brown sauce becomes 
the famous Chateaubriand by the addition of 
glaze (or very strong gravy) and a glass of 
white wine, and is the " mother " of many 
others equally fine. This being so, it will 
be seen that it is of the first importance that 
the making of these two "mother sauces" 
should be thoroughly understood, in order 
for the finer ones based on them to be suc- 
cessfully accomplished. 

It will clear the way for easy work if I 
here give the directions for making one of 



INTRODUCTION. 7 

the most necessary and convenient aids to 
fine cooking — the above-named glaze. To 
have it in the house saves much worry and 
work. If the soup is not just so strong as 
we wish, the addition of a small piece of 
glaze will make it excellent ; or we wish to 
make brown sauce, and have no stock, the 
glaze comes to our aid. To have stock in 
the house at all times is by no means easy in 
a small family, especially in summer ; with 
glaze, which is solidified stock, one is inde- 
pendent of it. 

Six pounds of lean beef from the leg, or a 
knuckle of veal and beef to make six pounds. 
Cut this in pieces two inches square or less ; 
do the same with half a pound of lean ham, 
free from rind or smoky outside, and which 
has been scalded HYe minutes. Put the meat 
into a two-gallon pot with three medium- 
sized onions with two cloves in each, a turnip, 
a carrot, and a small head of celery. Pour 
over them five quarts of cold water; let it 
come slowly to the boiling-point, when skim. 



8 CHOICE COOKERY. 

and draw to a spot where it will gently sim- 
mer for six hours. This stock as it is will 
be an excellent foundation for all kinds of 
clear soups or gravies, with the addition of 
salt, which must on no account be added for 
glaze. 

To reduce this stock to glaze, do as follows : 
Strain the stock first through a colander, and 
return meat and vegetables to the pot ; put 
to them four quarts of hot water, and let it 
boil four hours longer. The importance of 
this second boiling, which may at first sight 
appear useless economy, will be seen if you 
let the two stocks get cold; the first will 
be of dehghtful flavor, but probably quite 
liquid ; the last will be flavorless, but if the 
boiling process has been slow enough it will 
be a jelly, the second boiling having been 
necessary to extract the gelatine from the 
bones, which is indispensable for the forma- 
tion of glaze. 

Strain both these stocks through a scalded 
cloth. (If they have been allowed to get 



INTRODUCTION. 9 

cool, heat them in order to strain.) Put 
both stocks together into one large pot, and 
let it boil as fast as possible with the cover 
off, leaving a large spoon in it to prevent it 
boiling over, also to stir occasionally ; when 
it is reduced to three pints put it into a small 
saucepan, and let it boil more slowly. Stir 
frequently with a wooden spoon until it be- 
gins to thicken and has a fine yellowish- 
brown color, which will be when it is re- 
duced to a quart or rather less. At this 
point watch closely, as it quickly burns. 
When there is only a pint and a half it will 
be fit to pour into small cups or jars, or it 
may be dried in thin sheets, if required for 
soup in travelling ; to do this, pour it into 
oiled tin pans an inch deep. When cold it 
can be cut out in two-inch squares and dried 
by exposure to the air till it is like glue. 
One square makes a cup of strong soup if 
dissolved in boiling water and seasoned. If, 
however, it is put into pots, it must not he 
covered until all moisture has evaporated 



10 CHOICE COOKERY. 

and the glaze shrinks from the sides of the 
jar. This may take a month. 

The most convenient of all ways for pre- 
serving glaze is to get from your butcher a 
yard of sausage-skin. Tie one end very tight- 
ly, then pour in the glaze while warm by 
means of a large funnel. Tie the skin just 
as you would sausage as close to the glaze 
as possible, cut off any remaining skin, and 
hang the one containing the glaze up to dry. 
When needed, a slice is cut from this. 

Of course any strong meat and bone-soup 
can be boiled down in the same way, and 
where there is meat on hand in danger of 
spoiling from sudden change of weather it 
can be turned into glaze, and kept indefi- 
nitely. I have found glaze five years old as 
good as the first week. 



11. 

SAUCES. 

In addition to the glaze, for which the rec- 
ipe is given in the preceding pages, and which 
will make you independent of the stock pot, 
there are several other articles involving very 
small outlay which it is absolutely necessary 
to have at hand in order to foUoAV directions 
without trouble and worry. 

It is often said by thoughtless housekeep- 
ers that cooking-books are of little use, be- 
cause the recipes always call for something 
that is not in the house. This is a habit of 
mind only, for the very women who say it 
keep their work-baskets supplied with every- 
thing necessary for work, not only the every- 
day white and black spools, nor would they 
hesitate to undertake a piece of embroidery 
which required quite unusual combinations 



12 CHOICE COOKERY. 

of color or material, and to be obtained only 
with difficulty. Grant a little of this earnest 
painstaking to the requirements of the cook- 
ing-book at the start, see that the herb-bot- 
tles are supplied with dried herbs (when fresh 
are not attainable), the spice-boxes contain 
the small quantity of fresh line spices that 
is sufficient for a good deal of cooking, and 
red and w^hite w4ne and brandy are in the 
house, all of w^hich should be kept in the 
store-closet for cooking alone, and not liable 
to be " out " when wanted. 

The so-called ^'French herbs" are rarely 
found in American gardens, yet might be 
very readily sown in early spring, as parsley 
is ; but although seldom home-grown, they 
are to be found at the French market-gar- 
dener's in Washington Market, and can be 
bought fresh and dried in paper bags quickly 
for use. I say dried quickly, because unless 
the sun is very hot much of the aroma will 
pass into the air ; it is, therefore, better to 
dry them in a cool oven. When they are 



SAUCES. 13 

dry enough to crumble to dust, free the 
herbs from stems and twigs, and put them 
separately into tin boxes or wide-mouthed 
bottles, each labelled. The expense of herbs 
and spices is very slight, and they are cer- 
tainly not neglected among kitchen stores 
on that account; it is merely the want of 
habit in ordering them. In addition to these 
articles a bottle of capers, one of olives, one 
of anchovies, canned mushrooms, and canned 
truffles should be on hand — the latter should 
be bought in the smallest-sized cans, as they 
are very costly, but a little goes a long way. 
Families living in the country often have for 
a season more mushrooms than they can use. 
In the few days in which they are plentiful 
opportunity should be taken to peel and dry 
as many as possible; when powdered they 
give a finer flavor than the canned mush- 
room, and may be used to great advantage 
in dark sauces. 

The French chef classes all white sauces as 
hlonde, and calls the jar of very smooth thick 



14 CHOICE COOKERY. 

white sauce, wliich he keeps ready made as a 
foundation for most of the family of light 
sauces, his Monde or veloute. This expla- 
nation is given because directions are often 
found in French recipes to " take half a pint 
of veloute" or of "blonde." The mistress 
of a private house may not find it wise or 
necessary to keep a supply of sauce ready 
made, although to one who has to supply a 
variety of sauces each day it is indispensable ; 
but the day before a dinner-party sauces can 
be so made, and covered with a film of but- 
ter to prevent skin forming, and can then 
be heated in a bain-marie when required for 
use. Almost every chef has his favorite 
recipe for veloute, or white sauce, but they 
differ only in points that are little essential ; 
the foundation is alwaj^s the same, as fol- 
lows : Put two ounces of butter in a thick 
saucepan with two ounces of flour (table- 
spoonfuls approximate the ounce, but weight 
only should be reUed on for fine cooking). 
Let these melt over the fire, stirring them 



SAUCES. 15 

SO that the butter and flour become well 
mixed ; then let them bubble together, stir- 
ring enough to prevent the flour sticking or 
changing color. Three minutes will suffice 
to cook the flour; add a pint of clear hot 
white stock that has been strained through 
a cloth. This stock must not be poured 
slowly, or the sauce will thicken too fast. 
Hold the pint-measure or other vessel in 
which the stock may be in the left hand, 
stir the butter and flour quickly with the 
right, then turn the broth to it all at once. 
Let this simmer an hour until very thick, 
then add a gill of very rich cream, stir, and 
the sauce is ready. 

This is undoubtedly the best way to make 
white sauce, which is to serve as a founda- 
tion for others, or is intended to mask meat 
or poultry, the long, slow simmering produc- 
ing an extreme blandness not to be attained 
by a quicker method. But circumstances 
sometimes prevent the previous preparation 
of the sauce, in which case it may be made 



16 CHOICE COOKERY. 

exactly in the same way, only instead of a 
pint of broth, but three gills should be poured 
on the butter and flour, and a gill of thick 
cream stirred in when it boils ; the sauce is 
finished when it again reaches the boiling- 
point. 

This is the foundation for the follow- 
ing "grand" sauces: Poulette, AUemande, 
TJxelles, Soubise, Ste. Menehould, Perigueux, 
Supreme, besides all the simpler ones, which 
take their name from the chief ingredient, 
such as caper, cauliflower, celery, lobster, etc., 
etc. 

For sauces that have vinegar or lemon 
juice, it is better that the veloute, or white 
sauce, should have no cream until the last 
minute, or it may curdle. My object in giv- 
ing the recipes for sauces in the way I intend 
— that is to say, by building on to, or omit- 
ting from, one foundation sauce — is to dispel 
some of the confusion which exists in the 
minds of many people about the exact differ- 
ence between several sauces differing from 



SAUCES. 17 

each other very slightly — a confusion which 
is only added to by reading over the fully 
written recipes for each, as many a painstak- 
ing, intelligent woman's headache will tes- 
tify. As we progress, the exact difference 
between each will be explained. 

Bechamel. — This sauce differs from the 
white sauce only in the fact that the white 
stock used for the latter need not be very 
strong; for bechamel it should either be 
very strong or boiled down rapidly to make 
it so, and there should always be half cream 
instead of one third, as in white sauce, and 
when required for fish the stock may be of 
fish. White sauce is frequently (perhaps 
most frequently) made with milk, or milk 
and cream, in place of stock, in this country, 
and answers admirably for many purposes, 
but would not be what is required for the 
kind of cooking intended in these pages. 

Most readers know how "to stir," and it 
may seem quite an unnecessary matter to go 
into. Yet if only one reader does not know 
2 



18 CHOICE COOKERY. 

that to stir means a regular, even, slow cir- 
cling of the spoon, not only in the centre of 
the saucepan, but round the sides, she will 
fail in making good sauce. Stir, then, slow- 
ly, gently, going over every part of the bot- 
tom of the saucepan till the sides are reached, 
pass the spoon gently round them, thence 
back to the middle, and so on. In this way 
the sauce gets no chance to stick to any par- 
ticular spot. A small copper saucepan is the 
best possible utensil for making sauce, as it 
does not burn. 

The. rule for seasoning is a level salt-spoon- 
ful of salt to half a pint ; pepper, one fourth 
the quantity. This, however, is only when 
the stock is unseasoned; if seasoned, only 
salt enough must be added to season the 
cream and eggs. 

Allemande. — Take half a pint of white 
sauce, add to it half the liquor from a can of 
mushrooms, and half a dozen of the mush- 
rooms chopped fine. Let them simmer — 
stirring all the time — five minutes, then re- 



SAUCES. 19 

move from the fire. Set the saucepan into 
another containing boiling water. Have the 
yolks of three eggs ready beaten, put a little 
of the sauce to them, beat together, then add 
the eggs gradually to the rest of the sauce, 
which must be returned to the fire, and 
stirred until the eggs leg in to thicken ; then 
it must be quickly removed, and stirred until 
slightly cool. Season with a saltspoonful of 
salt, a fourth of one of pepper, and strain 
carefully. 

It must never be forgotten that in thicken- 
ing with eggs the sauce or soup must not hoil 
after they are added, or they will curdle. 
Yet if they do not reach the boiling-point 
they will not thicken. Only keen attention 
to the first sign of thickening will insure 
success. If a failure is made the first time, 
look upon it as the first step to success, for 
you have learned what the danger loohs like. 
Make the sauce again as soon as possible, so 
that your eye may not lose the impression. 
It is worth considerable effort (and it is 



20 CHOICE COOKEEY. 

really only a matter of a few minutes each 
time) to make Allemande sauce well, for in 
doing so you also learn to make Ilollandaise 
and several choice sauces, as will be seen by 
those that foUoAv. 

Poulette Sauce. — Make Allemande sauce 
as directed in the foregoing recipe; add a 
wineglass of white wine. If sweetbreads or 
chicken are to be cooked in the sauce, as is 
not unusual, of course the eggs must be left 
out until the last thing. Anything served 
with this sauce is called a la poulette. 

Sauce a la d'^Uxelles. — Chop fine a dozen 
small button mushrooms, or half a dozen 
large ones; parsley and chives, of each 
enough to make a teaspoonful when finely 
chopped ; of lean ham a tablespoonf ul, and 
one small shallot. Fry gently in a table- 
spoonful of butter, but do not let them 
brown. Stir these into half a pint of white 
sauce, simmer three or four minutes, then 
add two yolks of eggs, as for Allemande, 
and the last thing a half - teaspoonful of 



SAUCES. 21 

lemon-juice, and just enough glaze to make 
the sauce the shade of a pale Suede glove. 
This sauce is used cold to coat meats that 
have to be cooked in paper, and many that 
are afterwards to be fried in bread-crumbs, for 
which directions will be given in the entrees. 
Dishes termed dla cV Uxelles are among the 
most .recKerche productions of the French 
kitchen. 

Villeroi Sauce. — Make half a pint of white 
sauce, which, as in the case of bechamel, may 
be made of fish stock when for use with fish ; 
chop half a dozen mushrooms, and add a gill 
of the liquor to the sauce, half a saltspoonful 
of powdered thyme (or one sprig, if fresh), 
two sprigs of parsley, and half a bay-leaf; 
simmer for fifteen minutes ; strain through 
a scalded cloth ; replace on the fire ; add a 
piece of glaze as large as a hazel-nut, or a 
tablespoonful of strong meat -gravy, just 
enough to give it the shade oi palest cafe au 
lait ; thicken with two yolks of eggs, as for 
Allemande sauce. All articles served with 



22 CHOICE COOKERY. 

this sauce are termed a la Yilleroi. It dif- 
fers, from d'Uxelles only in having no ham, 
nor acidity from the lemon ; also, all flavor 
of onion is omitted. 



III. 

WHITE SAUCES. 

Supreme sauce gives its name to several 
dishes dear to epicures — supreme de volaille, 
supreme de Toulouse, etc. It is made with 
a pint of thick white sauce, a pint of very 
strong chicken broth, four stalks of parsley, 
and six white pepper-corns, boiled down to 
half a pint. Stir sauce and broth together 
until thoroughly blended, then boil rapidly 
down till thick again, taking great care it 
does not burn. Add one gill of double 
cream, and half a saltspoonful of salt (if the 
stock was already seasoned). Boil up till 
thick enough to mash the hack of a spoon, 
strain, and the last thing add a small tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice. 

When the white sauce has to be made ex- 
pressly for the supreme, it is easier to use 



24 CHOICE COOKERY. 

strong chicken broth in place of ordinary 
white stock ; then it is not necessary to add 
it after. The term " to mask the back of a 
spoon " is a common one to indicate the prop- 
er thickness for sauces, but to the untrained 
eye it may not be easy to decide just what 
"masking" means. Most sauces should be 
thin enough to run quite freely from the 
spoon, yet not so thin as to leave the color 
of the spoon visible through the coating of 
sauce it will retain if it be dipped into it ; 
there should be a thin opaque coating or 
" mask " to the back of the spoon. Sauce of 
this thickness is produced by using one ounce 
(exact weight) of flour of fine quality to half 
a pint of liquid. Meat, fish, or vegetables 
over which sauce of this consistency has 
been poured will be quite masked, but the 
sauce will not be too thick to serve readily 
with a spoon. This consistency is worth 
some practice to attain, for it is the perfec- 
tion of sauce-making. 

White sauce, when intended for the foun- 



WHITE SAUCES. 25' 

dation of others, it must be observed, is made 
twice as thick, to allow for the addition of 
cream, wine, or stock. The only advantage 
in a private family of making it thus thick 
is Avhen, perhaps, two or three sauces are 
needed for a dinner; for example, a plain 
white sauce for a vegetable, caper, lobster, 
or cardinal for other purposes, and perhaps 
poulette, d'Uxelles, or other pale sauce for an 
entree ; but when one sauce only is required, 
it is best to make that one from the begin- 
ning ; that is to say, make white sauce with 
the additions that form it into Allemande, 
supreme, or whatever you require. 

Ste. Menehoiold Sauce is in these days 
chiefly associated with " pigs' feet a la Ste. 
Menehould," but is good for several pur- 
poses. It is simply half a pint of white sauce 
into which a dozen bruised mushrooms, a 
gill of the mushroom liquor, a large teaspoon- 
f ul of finel}^ chopped chives, with the sixth of 
a saltspoonf ul of pepper and one of salt are 
allow^ed to simmer until the sauce is the same 



3(5 CaaOICE COOKERY. 

thickness as before the addition of the mush- 
room liquor ; that is to say, thick enough to 
mask the spoon. Strain, return to the sauce- 
pan, and add a teaspoonf ul of finely chopped 
sage leaves, if for pigs' feet, or parsley for oth- 
er purposes ; boil once, add half a teaspoon- 
ful of lemon juice, and the sauce is ready. 

Bearnaise Sauce. — This is one of the most 
difficult sauces to make, on account of the 
danger of the eggs curdling ; but by the fol- 
lowing method the work is rendered more 
sure than by the usual plan. It has been 
said that the terrors of a cook are Bearnaise 
sauce and omelette soufflee, but neither is 
really difficult ; great care only is necessary 
for success with each. 

Chop four shallots fine, put them into a 
saucepan -with half a gill of Tarragon vine- 
gar and half a gill of plain vinegar ; boil till 
reduced to one tablespoonf ul ; then add one 
gill of white sauce, mixing well. Stand the 
saucepan in another of boiling water ; then 
add, one at a time, three yolks of eggs, beat- 



WHITE SAUCES. 27 

ing each one well in before adding another, 
and on no account let the sauce hoil. Remove 
the saucepan from the fire when the eggs are 
all in and show signs of thickening. Have 
ready three ounces of butter cut into small 
pieces ; drop one in at a time, and w^ith an 
egg- whisk beat the sauce till the butter is 
blended ; then add another piece, and so on, 
till all the butter is used. If added too 
quickly the butter w411 oil, therefore great 
care must be taken to see one piece entirely 
blend before adding another. The butter 
will probably salt the sauce enough, but if 
not, add a very little salt. This sauce should 
have the appearance of a Welsh-rabbit when 
ready to spread ; in other words, it should be 
very thick, smooth, and dark yellow. 

SouUse. — This sauce, which transforms 
ordinary mutton-chops into " cotelettes a la 
Soubise," is very easily made. Boil half a 
dozen Bermuda onions (medium size) in milk 
till quite tender; press out all the milk; 
chop them as fine as possible; sprinkle a 



28 CHOICE COOKERY. 

quarter of a saltspoonful of white pepper 
and one of salt over them ; then stir them 
with a tablespoonful of butter into half a 
pint of white sauce. If the onions should 
thin the sauce too much (they are sometimes 
very watery), thicken with a yolk of egg, or 
blend a teaspoonful of flour with the butter 
before stirring it in. Boil the sauce three 
minutes. ^Needless to say, if the yolk of egg 
is added, it must be beaten in after the sauce 
is removed from the stove, and only allowed 
to thicken, not boil. 

The sauces so far given are what French 
cooks call " grand sauces." They are the 
most important part of the dish with which 
they are served, and, as we have seen, give 
the name to it. There are numberless other 
sauces of which the white sauce is parent 
that are, however, not indispensable to the 
dish they are served with — by which I mean 
a boiled fish may be served with oyster sauce 
or Dutch sauce, the sauce being in this case 
simply the adjunct. 



. WHITE SAUCE. 29 

A dessertspoonful of capers put into half 
a pint of white sauce, with a teaspoonful of 
the vinegar, makes caper sauce. 

Celery sauce is, again, white sauce with 
the pulp of boiled celery. Boil the white 
part of four heads of celery ( sliced thin) in 
milk till it will mash ; this will take an hour, 
perhaps more ; then rub the pulp through a 
coarse sieve, and stir it into half a pint of 
white sauce made w^ith half rich cream. 

Oyster sauce is white sauce made by using 
the oyster liquor instead of stock. The oys- 
ters should be bearded, just allowed to plump 
in the liquor, which must then be strained 
for the sauce, using a gill of it with a gill of 
thick cream to make half a pint; for this 
quantity a dozen and a half of small oysters 
will be required. 

Shrimp sauce, parsley sauce, lobster sauce, 
cucumber sauce, and all the family are white 
sauce with the addition of the ingredient 
naming it. Cucumber sauce, which is ap- 
proved for fish, is made by grating a cucum- 



30 CHOICE COOKEEY. 

ber, and adding it, with the water from it, to 
some white sauce ; boil till well flavored, 
and then strain. If too thin, boil till thick, 
stirring carefully. 

For shrimp sauce canned shrimps serve 
very well indeed ; they must be thrown for 
a minute into cold water, well stirred in it to 
remove superfluous salt, then drained, and 
dried on a cloth. Put a gill of shrimps to 
half a pint of bechamel made with fish stock, 
boil once, and stir in just enough essence of 
anchovy to make the sauce a pale shrimp 
pink. 

Cardinal sauce is a handsome sauce for 
boiled fish. It is made by drying the coral 
from a lobster, then pounding it quite smooth, 
with one ounce of butter, until it is a per- 
fectly smooth paste. Stir this into half a pint 
of bechamel. It should be a fine red when 
mixed ; pass through a sieve, and add as 
much cayenne as will go on the end of the 
blade of a small penknife. 

HoUandaise or Dutch sauce is best made in 



WHITE SAUCE. 31 

the following way. There are other meth- 
ods, but this one meets general approval, is 
not difficult, and agrees with many who can- 
not possibly eat it when oil is used. 

Make half a pint of drawn butter by melt- 
ing one ounce of butter with one ounce of 
flour over the fire ; let them bubble together 
(stirring the while) for one minute ; then stir 
in half a pint of boiling Avater and half a 
teaspoonful of salt. So far, the making is 
exactly the same as for white sauce, except 
that Avater is used instead of cream and 
stock. Boil once, then set the saucepan in 
another of water, and break up an ounce of 
butter into small pieces and add them ; stir 
briskly after each piece is added, and see it 
blend before putting more. When all is in, 
add the beaten yolks of five eggs, removing 
the saucepan from the fire w^hile doing it. 
They must be very carefully and gradually 
stirred in, and when well mixed returned to 
the fire until they hegin to thicken. The 
eggs must be kept from curdling. Squeeze 



CHOICE COOKEKY. 



in two teaspoonfuls of lemon juice, and add 
just a dust of cayenne. This should be a 
thick, yellow, custard-like sauce, and have a 
perceptible acidity without being sour. 



BROWN SAUCES. 

It has been already stated that the family 
of brown sauces, like the white, have one 
parent, Esjpagnole^ or Spanish sauce, which 
is the foundation for Chateaubriand, Finan- 
ciere, Eobert, Poivrade, Piquante, and other 
sauces. Ordinary brown sauce, like ordinary 
white, is often made without stock — simply 
an ounce of flour, one of butter, browned to- 
gether, and half a pint of boiling water 
added, then boiled till thick and smooth. 
But it may be safely said that in high-class 
dark sauces water should play no part ; its 
place must be taken by stock of good quali- 
ty, which is often enriched by reducing or 
adding glaze. 

The characteristics of finely made Spanish 
sauce are a clear beautiful brown, by no 
3 



34 CHOICE COOKERY. 

means approaching black, absolute freedom 
from grease, and a fine high flavor, so well 
blended that no particular spice or herb can 
be detected. Spanish sauce is made as fol- 
lows : Wash, peel, and cut small six mush- 
rooms (or a dessertspoonful of mushroom 
powder), one small carrot, one small onion, 
and one shallot ; dry them, and fry them a 
fine brown in a tablespoonf ul of butter, but 
do not let them burn ; drain off the butter. 
Melt in a copper saucepan two ounces of 
butter and two ounces of flour, stir them to- 
gether over the fire till of a pale bright 
brown, then add a pint of stock, the fried 
vegetables, and a gill of tomato sauce ; let 
all gently simmer for half an hour with the 
cover off. Strain through a fine sieve. When 
Spanish sauce is to be served without any 
addition, and not as a foundation, a wine- 
glass of sherry is used and the same quan- 
tity of stock omitted. 

It becomes Chateaubriand by the addition 
of a wineglass of sherry reduced to half a 



BROWN SAUCES. 35 

glass by boiling in a tiny saucepan, a dessert- 
spoonful of fresh parsley very ^nely chopped, 
and the juice of half a small lemon. These 
must be added to one third the quantity of 
Espagnole, or Spanish sauce, given in the 
foregoing recipe. Then stir in gradually, 
bit by bit, one ounce of butter, letting each 
piece blend before adding more. 

I have said here and elsewhere, " the juice 
of half a small lemon." Yet I would cau- 
tion the reader to squeeze it in gradually, 
because some lemons are intensely sour, and 
a very few drops of juice from such go far- 
ther than that of the whole half of an aver- 
age lemon. Chateaubriand sauce is by no 
means acid ; there must be only a just per- 
ceptible dash of acidity, and only so much 
lemon juice used as will give it zest. Pi- 
quante sauce is different; there should be 
acidity enough to provoke appetite; yet 
even this should be by no means sour. 

To make Piquante sauce, chop a shallot 
fine, put it, with a tablespoonf ul of vinegar, 



36 CHOICE COOKERY. 

into a very small saucepan ; let them stew 
together uptil the vinegar is entirely ab- 
sorhed^ buP&o not let it burn. Then add to 
it half a pint of Spanish sauce and a gill of 
stock, with a bay-leaf and a sprig of thyme ; 
cook very gently ten minutes, remove the 
thyme and bay -leaf , and add a dessertspoon- 
ful of chopped pickled cucumber, a teaspoon- 
f ul of capers, and a dessertspoonful of finely 
chopped parsley. Simmer very slowly ten 
minutes more ; then add enough cayenne to 
lay on the tip of a penknife blade. 

Poivrade resembles piquante sauce very 
closely, differing from it, however, by the 
addition of wine and higher flavoring. To 
make it, fry an onion and a small carrot cut 
fine, a tomato sliced, and an ounce of lean 
ham in two ounces of butter; let them 
brown slightly; then add to them half a 
pint of claret, a bouquet of herbs, two cloves, 
and six peppercorns; let them simmer till 
the wine is reduced one haK ; then add half 
a pint of good Spanish sauce, boil gently ten 



BROWN SAUCES. 37 

minutes, strain, and serve very hot. A true 
French poivrade has a soupgon of garlic, ob- 
tained by rubbing a crust on a clove of it, 
and simmering it in the sauce before strain- 
ing it ; but although many would like the 
scarcely perceptible zest imparted by this 
cautious use of garlic, no one should try the 
experiment unless sure of her company. 

A " bouquet of herbs " always means two 
sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, one of mar- 
joram, and a bay-leaf, so rolled together (the 
bay-leaf in the middle) and tied that there 
is no difficulty in removing it from any dish 
which is not to be strained. 

The well-known Bordelaise sauce is sim- 
ply Spanish sauce with the addition of white 
wine and shallots. Scald a tablespoonful of 
chopped shallots; put them to half a pint 
of Chablis, Sauterne, or any similar white 
wine ; let the wine reduce to one gill ; then 
mix with it half a pint of Spanish sauce and 
the sixth part of a saltspoonfal of pepper. 
Strain and serve. 



CHOICE COOKERY. 



Robert sauce, that excellent adjunct to 
beefsteak, varies again from Bordelaise, vine- 
gar and mustard and fried onions taking the 
place of the wine and shallot. Chop three 
medium-sized onions quite fine ; fry them in 
a tablespoonful of butter until they are a 
clear yellowish - brown, stirring them con- 
stantly as they fry ; drain them, and put 
them to a half -pint of Spanish sauce, to 
which you add a wineglass of stock (to allow 
for boiling away) ; simmer gently twenty min- 
utes ; add a pinch of pepper ; strain ; then mix 
a teaspoonful of vinegar in a cup with a tea- 
spoonful of mustard ; stir this into the sauce. 

Sauce d la Normande is one of the most 
delicious sauces for baked fish of any kind, 
although usually associated with sole. To 
half a pint of Spanish sauce add a dozen 
mushrooms sliced in half, a dozen small oys- 
ters with the beards removed, and a dozen 
crawfish, if they are to be had, or their place 
may be taken by a tablespoonful of shrimps 
picked (canned shrimps, washed and dried, an- 



BEOWN SArCES. 89 

swer very well), one tablespoonf ul of essence 
of anchovy, and just a dust of Cayenne pepper. 

Light Normande is made by using be- 
chamel instead of Spanish sauce, adding all 
the other materials ; it is then a pale salmon- 
colored sauce, excellent for boiled fish. 

A favorite English sauce for fish, which is 
also brown or pink, according to whether it 
is intended for baked or boiled fish, is the 
Downton sauce. To three quarters of a 
pint of bechamel add a dessertspoonful of 
anchovy essence and a small wineglass of 
sherry, mix well, and serve. 

Orange sauce for game is made with half 
a pint of Spanish sauce boiled five minutes 
to make it rather thicker than usual, the 
juice of three sweet oranges, and the peel of 
one. This peel must be so thinly pared as 
to be transparent. Boil this peel half an 
hour in water, then shred it into fine even 
strips half an inch long, and not thicker than 
broom straw. Stew this shredded peel an- 
other half -hour in a gill of stock, with a 



40 CHOICE COOKERY. 

scant teaspoonful of sugar; then add it to 
the sauce, with half a saltspoonful of salt, 
and boil five minutes. 

Matelote may come in with the brown 
sauces, although it is not made with Spanish 
sauce as a foundation, but only Avith strong 
stock. It is used to simmer fish in when di- 
rected to be a la matelote, and if it were al- 
ready thickened the whole would burn. It 
is made as follows : Half a pint of Sauterne 
or Chablis, half a pint of rich stock, two bay- 
leaves, three leaves of tarragon, chervil, and 
chive, a scant saltspoonful of salt, a quarter 
one of pepper; simmer these until reduced 
to one half-pint. A touch of garlic is indis- 
pensable to the true matelote, but when used 
it must be done with the greatest caution ; a 
fork stuck into a clove of it, then stirred in 
the sauce (the fork, when withdrawn, not the 
garlic), or a crust rubbed once across a piece of 
it, is the only way in which it should be used. 

Like the white sauces, the family of brown 
ones is very large, but I have given those 



BROWN SAUCES. 41 

which require special directions. Others are 
simply Spanish sauce with the addition of 
the ingredient which gives its name to it, as 
brown oyster sauce is simply Spanish sauce 
with oysters, celery sauce, mushroom sauce, 
and so on. It should always be remembered 
that the consistency must be preserved ; that 
is to say, except when special mention is 
made of the sauce being thinner, it should 
" mask the spoon," and if the addition made to 
it is of a kind to dilute it, as mushrooms and 
part of their liquor, it must be rapidly boiled 
down to the original thickness. In the same 
way, when ingredients have to be simmered 
in the sauce — and this is very often the case 
— then a wineglassf ul or half one of broth or 
stock should be allowed for the wasting. 

In the next chapter we will make acquaint- 
ance w^ith the miscellaneous sauces which 
are not built on the foundation of either 
white or brown sauce. These are chiefly 
cold sauces, although served with hot dishes 
at times, as Tartare, Kemoulade, etc. 



Y. 

COLD SAUCES. 

Cold dishes^ which are such a pleasing 
feature of foreign cookery, are much neg- 
lected with us, at least in private kitchens, 
or they are limited to two or three articles 
served in mayonnaise, or a galantine, yet 
the dishes w^hich the French call chaud- 
f voids are both delicious and ornamental, 
and it only requires a little taste, care, and 
jperfect sauce to convert the ordinary cold 
chicken, .turkey, or game into an elaborate 
and choice dish. 

Among cold sauces, of course mayonnaise, 
both green, red, and yellow, reigns supreme ; 
indeed, of late years it has become almost 
hackneyed. Yet no w^ork on choice eat- 
ing would be complete without the different 
forms of mayonnaise. 



COLD SAUCES. 43 

Mayonnaise is one of those sauces in which 
everything depends on care, and very little 
on skill, and yet some women have quite a 
reputation for making it among their friends 
who often declare how unsuccessful their 
own efforts have been, and that to succeed 
is a gift. It is not as a novelty, therefore, 
that the manner of making it is given here, 
but that those who believe they have not 
the "magic fingers" may take courage and 
try again. 

First of all let me explain what seems to 
puzzle many. I have been frequently asked, 
" How much oil can I use to two eggs ?" the 
answer is, "As much as you choose;" or, 
again, " How many eggs ought I to take to 
a quart of oil?" again the answer is, "One, 
two, three, or four." The egg is only a 
foundation, and mayonnaise will " come " no 
better with two yolks than one, although 
some chefs consider it keeps better when 
two eggs are used to a pint of oil. 

A cool room is always insisted on for mak- 



44 CHOICE COOKERY. 

ing the sauce, but to the amateur I say, oil, 
eggs, and bowl also, should be put in the ice- 
box until well chilled, and even then mishaps 
may come from using a warm spoon from a 
hot kitchen drawer or closet; that, therefore, 
must be cool also. Of course it is often suc- 
cessfully made with only the usual precau- 
tion of a cool room, but with everything 
well chilled it is hard to fail. 

If very little of the sauce is wanted, one 
yolk of egg will be better than two. Sepa- 
rate the yolks very carefully, allowing not a 
speck of white to remain ; remove also the 
germ which is attached to the yolk. /Stir 
the yolk at least a minute hefore beginning to 
add oil ; then arrange your bottle or a sharp- 
spouted pitcher in your left hand so that it 
rests on the edge of the bowl, and you can 
keep up a pretty steady drop, drop, into the 
egg^ while you stir with your right steadily. 
The oil must be added drop by drop, but 
this does not mean a drop every two or 
three minutes ; you may add a drop to every 



. COLD SAUCES. 45 

one or two circuits of the spoon. The rea- 
son for adding it slowly is that each drop 
may form an emulsion with the egg before 
more goes in. After two or three minutes 
look carefully at the mixture ; if it has not 
begun to look pale and opaque, but retains a 
dark, oily appearance, stir it steadily for two 
minutes, and then add oil slowly, drop by 
drop, stirring all the time. If it has not now 
begun to thicken, it probably will not ; but 
the materials are not lost. Put the yolk of 
another egg into a cool bowl, and begin 
again using the egg and oil you have already 
mixed, in place of fresh oil. When this is 
all used, proceed with the oil (it is hoped, 
however, that the work will have proceeded 
without the necessity for beginning afresh). 
When the mayonnaise becomes quite thick, 
use a few drops of vinegar to thin it ; then 
more oil, until sufficient sauce is made. Then 
white pepper and salt should be added for 
seasoning. The vinegar used should be very 
strong, so that very little of it will be suffi- 



46 CHOICE COOKERY. 

cient to give the necessary acidity, without 
making it too thin. This is especially the 
case when the sauce is required to mask 
salad. It should for this purpose be set on 
ice until firm, but in all cases be kept cold. 
The best mayonnaise, left in a warm kitchen, 
would separate and become oily. The stir- 
ring must be steady and constant, and the 
task must not be left until completed. 

Mayonnaise is the basis of several other 
sauces, so that in accomplishing it a great 
deal is done. 

Green mayonnaise is made by dropping a 
bunch of parsley into boiling water, and in a 
minute or two, when it becomes intensely 
green, take it up, pound it in a mortar, and 
then through a sieve. Use as much pulp as 
will color the sauce a delicate green. 

Red mayonnaise, used for cardinal salad 
and other purposes, is made by pounding 
lobster coral very fine and stirring it in. It 
mast not be forgotten that anything added 
to mayonnaise must be ice-cold. 



COLD SAUCES. 47 

Asjpic mayomiaise is another form of the 
sauce, used in dressing cold dishes, and while 
more delicious than the usual sauce, will keep 
its form for hours after the dish is dressed. 
It is absolutely necessary to prepare it on 
ice. Put half a pint of stiff aspic jelly into 
a bowl set in cracked ice, whisk it with an 
egg-beater until it is a white froth (usually 
the motion will melt it, but to save labor it 
may be set in lukewarm water to soften, 
then beaten, but no oil must be added until 
it is again ice-cold froth) ; then beat in very 
gradually a quarter of a pint of olive oil 
and a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, pro- 
ceeding with the same care as for the usual 
mayonnaise ; add a saltspoonful of salt, a 
pinch of pepper, and the same of powdered 
sugar. 

Norwegian sauce is preferred by many to 
Tartare for some purposes, and is made by 
^Mlvig freshly grated horseradish to mayon- 
naise in the proportion of two tablespoonf uls 
to half a pint. 



48 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Tartar e sauce is mayonnaise with the ad- 
dition of mustard, chives, pickles, and tarra- 
gon, chopped. As usually served, it has only 
mustard and capers or chopped cucumber, 
but for those to whom a slight flavor of 
onion is not disagreeable, chives should be 
added. To half a pint of mayonnaise use a 
teaspoonful of dry mustard mixed with two 
of tarragon vinegar, then stir into the sauce. 
To this add a tablespoo'nful either of capers 
or chopped pickled cucumber; this is the 
usual Tartare sauce ; but the French recipe 
is a tablespoonful of very finely chopped 
chives, a teaspoonful each of fresh tarragon 
and chervil in place of the pickles. 

Cold cucumher sauce is mayonnaise with 
an equal quantity of grated cucumber, 
drained, pressed, and stirred into it, with a 
saltspoonful of salt and a few drops of very 
strong vinegar. 

Horseradish saxice is a very good sauce for 
hot or cold beef, roast or boiled. Grate three 
tablespoonfuls of horseradish fine, put to it 



COLD SAUCES. 49 

a teaspoonful of sugar, one of salt, and one 
of vinegar, or a tablespoonful of Chablis 
wine ; let them soak an hour or two, and the 
last thing before serving stir in four table- 
spoonfuls of cream that is whipped very 
solid. A half -teaspoonful of dry mustard is 
sometimes mixed with the horseradish, but 
that is a matter of taste. "When the sauce 
is to be served hot, two yolks of egg and 
two tablespoonfuls of water must be substi- 
tuted for cream, which would curdle. The 
water, horseradish, etc., must first come to 
the boiling-point, then the eggs added grad- 
ually, and just allowed to thicken, not to 
boil. 

Mint Sauce. — Take only the young, tender 
leaves, not a bit of stem, and chop very fine 
indeed. To two tablespoonfuls add a table- 
spoonful and a half of brown sugar and three 
of vinegar. It should be quite thick, not as 
we so often see it — vinegar with a few bits 
of mint floating around. 

Mint Jelly for masking cold lamb or cut- 
4 



50 CHOICE COOIJERY. 

lets. — Take two tablespoonfuls of Spanish 
sauce, and dissolve in it a good teaspoonful 
of gelatine softened in cold stock, a table- 
spoonful of aspic, and one of thick mint 
sauce. If no aspic is ready, it is not worth 
while to make for the small quantity needed ; 
a teaspoonful of glaze, two of gelatine, and 
half a wineglass of Sauterne may be dis- 
solved together to take its place. 'No gela- 
tine will be needed w4th the Spanish sauce 
in this case. 

Sweet sauces will be left until the desserts 
are treated of. 



YI. 

SOUPS. 

It is not proposed to give the soups to be 
found readily in most cooking-books in these 
pages, but only those less known or of pecul- 
iar excellence. 

It is supposed that the reader understands 
the making of good beef or veal stock, and 
perhaps the usual way of clearing it. But 
since cooking has been studied scientifically, 
improvements on methods have been intro- 
duced ; one of these is the clearing of soup 
with albumen of meat instead of Qgg. The 
advantages of this method are that the soup 
is strengthened and the flavor improved, while 
clearing with whites of eggs in the usual way, 
though greatly improving the appearance, 
tends to lessen the flavor of soup. 

To clear Consomme with Beef. — Con- 



52 CHOICE COOKERY. 

somme is reduced stock, or stock made of ex- 
tra strength. Carefully remove all fat from 
three pints of it when cold. It will, of course, 
be a stiff jelly. Chop fine an onion, a carrot, 
and a turnip. Chop half a pound of lean beef 
from which all fat is removed ; this is best 
put through a chopping-machine, as it must 
be very fine. Put the consomme, meat, and 
vegetables into a saucepan. Stir them brisk- 
ly till just on the boiling-point. Remove the 
spoon, let the soup boil up well one minute. 
It should now be clear. Take a clean cloth, 
fix it on a soup stand or in a colander, pour 
boiling water through it, to warm it thorough- 
ly ; throw the water away, and pour the soup 
gently through the cloth twice ; do not press 
or stir it. It will be beautifully clear and of 
excellent color. It is now ready to serve for 
a variety of soups, named according to what 
is served in them. 

Consomme a la Rachel. — This is consomme 
to which is added tiny quenelles made in egg- 
spoons, and colored red, green, and black. 



SOUPS. 53 

Quenelle meat is made from the uncooked 
breast of chicken or game, the backs of hares 
or rabbits (or it may be made for certain 
purposes of fish or very white veal), first 
chopped, and then pounded in a mortar until 
it is a perfectly smooth paste. Mere chopped 
meat is not what is required ; it must be 
fine enough to go through a sieve. For 
Consomme a la Rachel, however, the breast 
of chicken is necessary. Take four ounces 
of chicken, free from skin and sinew ; pound, 
it until quite smooth ; the more it is pounded 
the better it is. Mix with it thick cream, a 
scant saltspoonful of salt, very little pepper, 
and half a beaten egg, until it is a softish 
paste, yet firm enough to mould ; mix thor- 
oughly. Now try a little by poaching in a 
teaspoon; that is, fill a teaspoon Avith the 
mixture, pressing it in form, then drop it into 
boiling water for three minutes. Open the 
quenelle and taste it ; if it is creamy, light, 
and well flavored, it is right, but if there is 
the least toughness, add a little more cream 



^ CHOICE COOKERY. 

to the mixture. E"otice also the seasoning; 
if more salt is needed, add it carefully, and 
try again, till you have the quenelle mixture 
just right, that is to say, creamy, light, very 
tender, yet keeping its form. At present 
quenelles as entrees or for soups form such 
an important part of fine cooking that it is 
worth while to get the mixture perfect for 
other purposes than the present. 

Having your quenelle meat ready, proceed 
to vary it as follows, allowing one quenelle 
of each color to each guest : For the green 
quenelles use sufficient pounded tarragon to 
color one third the meat delicately. For the 
second use sufficient lobster coral pounded to 
redden it. The third must be made dark 
with pounded truffles. Great care must be 
taken to keep the three portions separate, so 
that one color may not injure the other. To 
form them use two very small coffeespoons 
or eggspoons, as the quenelles should not be 
larger than small olives ; butter the spoons 
slightly, and when formed drop each for one 



SOUPS. 55 

or two minutes into boiling pale-colored stock. 
Drop them, as they are done, into cold water, 
in which they must be kept until you are 
ready to use them. When the soup is to be 
served, drain them, lay the number required 
in the tureen, and pour the boiling consomme 
on them. They will not require heating in 
the soup. It may be observed that raw spin- 
ach pounded and rubbed through a sieve, 
and boiled red beet, may be used to color 
the meat green and red, and the rest left 
white. The consomme is then called Con- 
somme d' Orleans. 

Consomme aux (Eufs files. — Put one quart 
of cleared consomme to boil. Mix one ^gg^ 
one dessertspoonful of flour, one tablespoon- 
ful of milk, a pinch between forefinger and 
thumb of salt, and a dust of pepper, into a 
batter, rub a nutmeg once back and forth 
over the grater, and stir. When the soup 
boils, pass this batter through a fine strainer 
into it. It should look like threads. 

Consomme a la Sevigne. — Pound two 



56 CHOICE COOKERY. 

ounces of breast of cooked chicken until it 
will pass through a ^v^ide sieve. Mix with it 
two eggs, three tablespoonfuls of milk, 
twelve drops of almond essence, a scant 
saltspoonful of salt, as much nutmeg as will 
go on the end of a penknife blade, and a dust 
of cayenne. When well blended, fill three or 
four small round muffin pans, well greased, 
and steam slowly twenty minutes, or until 
set. Turn out very carefully ; let them cool ; 
then cut them into fancy shapes, and serve 
in one quart of boiling consomme. A few 
asparagus points boiled until just tender, but 
not mushy, are to be dropped in the last 
thing. 

Fotage a la Ilollandaise. — For this Avill be 
required one quart of veal or chicken stock, 
two ounces of butter, one ounce of flour, four 
yolks of eggs, half a pint of cream, one gill 
of green peas, one gill of boiled carrots, one 
gill of boiled cucumber, one teaspoonful of 
fresh tarragon chopped fine, one teaspoonful 
of sugar, and one teaspoonful of salt. Trim 



SOUPS. 57 

the carrots and cucumber with a very small 
scoop or cutter the size and shape of peas ; 
cook them just tender, and no more, in boil- 
ing water. Put the stock on to boil ; skim 
if necessary ; add the salt and sugar. Break 
the eggs into a bowl, add the cream to them, 
and beat them till well mixed. This forms 
a "liaison." Make the butter and flour into 
a paste in a bowl, pour half a gill of cold 
stock to it, then enough hot stock to dissolve 
it; when mixed smooth, stir it into the boil- 
ing stock, let it boil, then remove from the 
fire, and stir in very carefully, to prevent 
curdling, the liaison of eggs and cream ; let 
it come to the boiling-point, but not boil, or 
it will curdle. Strain it into a clean stew- 
pan, and add the vegetables ; let all get hot 
together; then strew in the tarragon. 

Chestnut Soup {puree de marrons). — Slit 
twenty -five large chestnuts at each end, put 
them in boiling water, and boil ten minutes. 
Drop them into cold water, and remove both 
the outer and inner skin. Melt three ounces 



68 CHOICE COOKEEY. 

of butter in a saucepan, put in the chestnuts, 
and saute (toss them about) for a few minutes, 
but do not brown them ; then add a pint and 
a half of rich white stock, and let the nuts 
boil in it until very tender, when they must 
be rubbed through a fine sieve. Boil up 
again, add half a pint of cream, a teaspoonf ul 
of powdered sugar, a teaspoonful of salt (less 
if the stock be salted), and a pinch of pepper. 
Princess Soujy. — Cut a chicken in pieces ; 
wash it ; butter a stewpan, put in the chick- 
en with a blade of mace, an onion, a bay- 
leaf, and twelve white peppercorns. Let this 
simmer, closely covered, ten minutes, shaking 
it often to prevent its browning ; then put to 
it two quarts of hot veal stock, and simmer 
one hour. Put into another stewpan two 
ounces of flour and two ounces of butter; 
stir them together, and let them bubble once, 
then strain the liquor from the chicken to it ; 
stir well, and cook a few minutes. Take the 
white meat from the bones of the chicken, 
pound it in a mortar very fine, stir it to the 



SOUPS. 59 

stock, then rub through a soup strainer ; add 
just before serving half a pint of fresh cream 
and the juice of half a lemon. This soup 
must be made hot, but not boil, after the 
chicken pulp and cream are added. 

Potage d la Royale. — Boil two ounces of 
macaroni till tender, but not broken ; throw 
it into cold water. Put three pints of white 
stock to boil ; cut the macaroni into lengths 
half an inch long ; beat three yolks of eggs 
in a bowl with a gill of cream; throw the 
macaroni into the soup ; when it boils, re- 
move from the fire, add the cream and eggs 
and an ounce of grated Parmesan cheese; 
stir till the soup reaches the boihng-point, 
but by no means iet it boil, after the cream 
and eggs are added, or it will be spoiled. 
Salt soup always in the proportion of a mod- 
erate teaspoonful of salt to the quart ; if the 
stock is seasoned, only add salt for the cream, 
eggs, etc. Use just a suspicion of cayenne. 
In making soup to which eggs are added, 
the utmost care is required, yet not any more 



60 CHOICE COOKERY. 

than in making custard. The main point is 
to let the eggs come near enough to the boil- 
ing-point to thicken, yet far enough from it 
not to curdle. This a little patience will ac- 
complish by watching and removing the 
saucepan for a few seconds as the boiling- 
point approaches, then returning it ; do this 
once or twice, till the opaque, creamy appear- 
ance shows the eggs are done. 



YII. 

FISH ENTREES. 

Instead of giving recipes for cooking fish 
whole, for which excellent directions are to 
be found in several modern cookery books, 
recipes for fish entrees will be substituted. 
They are now frequently served at the fish 
course, and by their convenience and econ- 
omy, as well as the variety they afford, are 
likely to grow in favor. Another point for 
them is that they can often be made hours 
before, and simply heated when needed, thus 
relieving the cook of the most critical part 
of her work at the time when she needs her 
attention free. 

Some of these entrees will be more suited 
for breakfast, luncheon, or supper dishes than 
to precede a heavy dinner, such, for instance, 
as the preparations of oysters when they 



63 CHOICE COOKERY. 

have been also served before soup; but the 
recipes are included here for their intrinsic 
worth. 

Fillets of Cod a la Normande. — Butter a 
tin dish, lay on it three slices of cod moder- 
ately thick (an inch to an inch and a half), 
pour over them one wineglass of white wine, 
place a buttered paper over them, and bake 
in a moderate oven fifteen minutes. Eeduce 
another glass of wine in a stewpan by sim- 
mering, add to it half a pint of white sauce, 
twelve small oysters, bearded and blanched, 
twelve small quenelles,* and twelve button 
mushrooms. Season with pepper and salt. 
Simmer one minute only, or the oysters will 
harden. Place the slices of fish on a hot 
dish, pour the sauce over them, place the 
oysters, mushrooms, and quenelles in groups 
in the corners of the dish. 

Lobster Soufflees. — Cut up the meat of a 
boiled hen lobster into neat dice, showing as 

* See Quenelles in No. VI. 



FISH ENTREES. 63 

much of the red as possible. Prepare as 
many small ramekin or soufflee cases as 
may be required by pinning bands of writ- 
ing-paper round them two to three inches 
higher than the case. Take three table- 
spoonfuls of mayonnaise, half a pint of stiff 
aspic jelly, and a gill of tomato sauce in 
which a teaspoonful of gelatine has been 
dissolved. Every utensil used must be ice- 
cold, the jelly must be quite cold, but not set. 
Put the tomato sauce, the jelly, and the may- 
onnaise (which should be left on the ice till 
the last thing) into a bowl set in another 
bowl of pounded ice ; whisk them together 
until they begin to look white ; then stir the 
lobster in it, with a teaspoonful of very fine- 
ly chopped chervil and tarragon; fill the 
soufflee cases, piling the dressing high ; put 
them on a dish on ice. When they are " set," 
carefully remove the paper bands, sprinkle a 
little dried and sifted lobster coral over the 
tops, and serve. 

Coquilles of Prawns. — Pick the shells 



64 CHOICE COOKERY. 

from four dozen prawns; mix with one 
third the quantity of mushrooms slightly 
stewed in a tablespoonful of butter and a 
saltspoonful of salt (the mushrooms must 
not be brown) ; add, four tablespoonf uls of 
Allemande sauce ;* fill the shells, w^hich must 
be well buttered, dress each over with fine 
bread crumbs which have been carefully fried 
a golden brown; put them in a cool oven 
twenty minutes, only get thoroughly hot, 
but not to cook. 

Coqiiilles of Salmon or Halibut. — Take 
one pound of cold halibut or salmon ; break 
it into small pieces; put it in a stewpan 
Tvith half a saltspoonful of salt and a tin}^ 
pinch of pepper, and half a pint of white 
sauce, a tablespoonful of very thick cream, 
and a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce; stir 
well, and let all get hot. Butter some shells, 
sprinkle over w^itli a few fried crumbs, fill 
with the mixture, cover with the fried 

* See directions in No. II. 



FISH ENTREES. 65 

crumbs, and put them in the oven to get 
thoroughly hot. Serve on a napkin. 

Salmon en Papillotes. — Cut some sUces of 
salmon into cutlets the right size for serving, 
make paper cases to fit them, then cover 
each slice with the following mixture : two 
tablespoonfuls of salad oil beaten Avith the 
yolk of an egg, one teaspoonful of parsley 
chopped, one shallot chopped, and one an- 
chovy (all these must be chopped as finely 
as possible), a half-saltspoonful of salt, and 
a grain of cayenne ; mix, spread on the fish, 
envelop each piece in a well-buttered case, 
fasten up (by pinching the paper well), and 
bake half an hour. Serve in the papers. 

Fillet of Sole a la Normande. — In speak- 
ing of sole, one of course means the flounder, 
which is coming to be called the American 
sole, and when filleted does make a fair sub- 
stitute for the real thing, and it is suitable 
for cooking in every way that the English 
sole can be used, except whole. A boiled 
flounder without filleting, or a flounder fried 
5 



66 CHOICE COOKERY. 

whole, as is so often done with sole, would 
be very coarse. Fillet two flounders (in 
cities this will be done by the fishmonger, 
but in the country it may have to be done 
in the kitchen, therefore directions for doing 
it will be appended), lay the fillets, neatly 
trimmed and shaped, into a thickly buttered 
pan or dish — either fire-proof porcelain or 
any other that can go to table — pour over 
them a glass of sherry and four tablespoon- 
fuls of consomme ; cover with oiled paper, 
and bake ten minutes in a moderate oven; 
take out the pan, pour over the fillets half a 
pint of sauce Normande • return to the oven 
for five minutes, and serve in the pan. 

Sole d Vllorly. — Make a frying batter 
thus: mix one tablespoonful of milk with 
two ounces of flour and a tablespoonful of 
salad oil to a smooth paste ; then add two 
yolks of eggs, and the whites whipped firm, 
with a quarter of a saltspoonf ul of salt ; mix 
with an upward movement of the spoon, so 
as not to deaden the whites of eggs. Set it 



FISH ENTREES. 67 

aside while you prepare the sole. Mix a 
tablespoonful of salad oil, a teaspoonful of 
Chili vinegar, a teaspoonful of tarragon vine- 
gar, a teaspoonful of parsley and one of onion 
chopped exceedingly fine, a scant saltspoon- 
f ul of salt, and a quarter one of pepper. Mix 
all together, then cut the fillets in half, trim- 
ming away all ragged appearance, and lay 
them for fifteen minutes in the mixture 
(called a marinade) ; take them out, drain 
them on a sieve, and then dip each fillet in 
the batter. This batter should be just thick 
enough to coat the fish and run slowly off, 
not cling in a thick paste round it. A French 
rule for testing the thickness of frying batter 
is to dip a spoon in it and then let a drop run 
off the end on a plate ; if it drops freely, yet 
keeps a beadlike form, it is right. Fry each 
fillet in a wire basket three minutes in very 
hot deep fat. Serve with fried parsley. 

Turbans of Sole a la Bouennaise. — As 
these require a little of the same mixture as 
would be used for lobster cutlets or cro- 



e$ CHOICE COOKERY. 

quettes, it is good management to have them 
^Yhen lobster is required for something else. 
The mixture for the cutlets is made as fol- 
lows (less than a fourth of it would be re- 
quired for the turbans) : remove all the flesh 
from a boiled hen lobster; chop it small; 
wash, dry, and pound the coral, with an 
ounce of butter ; take one gill of white sauce, 
mix the lobster coral and a tablespoonful of 
cream with it, and boil five minutes ; mix in 
the lobster with a little salt (unless the lob- 
ster is salt enough) and a grain of cayenne. 
This made into cutlets, egged, crumbed, and 
fried, is excellent, but our purpose now is to 
use it for stuffing. Take as many fillets of 
sole as required, spread the lobster mixture 
on each, roll them up, run a toothpick 
through them to keep them in shape ; trim 
till each will stand ; put them on a buttered 
baking-sheet, cover with buttered paper, and 
bake ten minutes. Chop up two truffles, two 
hard-boiled yolks of eggs, and a tablespoon- 
ful of parsley, each chopped separately. Take 



FISH ENTEEES. 69 

up the turbans, pour over them half a pint of 
cardinal sauce, and ornament the turbans, 
one with the truffles, one with the yolk of 
egg, and one with parsley ; so on alternately. 
Directions for Filleting Flounders. — Take 
a sharp knife, cut away the fins all round the 
fish, and split the flounder right down the 
middle of the back, then run the knife care- 
fully between the flesh and bones, going tow- 
ards the edge. You have now detached 
one quarter of the flesh from the bone ; do 
the other half in the same way, and when 
the back is thus entirely loose from the bone, 
turn the fish over and do the same with the 
other side. You will now find j^ou can re- 
move the bone whole from the fish, detach- 
ing, as you do so, any flesh still retaining the 
bone. Then you have two halves of the fish, 
and you have four quarters of solid fish. To 
remove the skin, take the tail end firmly be- 
tween the thumb and forefinger of the left 
hand, hold the skin side downward on the 
board, and with your knife make an incision 



.70 CHOICE COOKERY. 

across the flesh, then, keeping the skin firm- 
ly between your thumb and finger, push the 
knife betAveen it and the flesh, shghtly hu- 
moring it to prevent tearing the flesh. The 
skin parts quite easily, but no attempt must 
be made to cut the fish from it. 



YIII. 

VARIOUS WAYS OF SERVING OYSTERS. 

Oysters a la Yilleroi. — Scald (or blanch) 
some large oysters, dry them, then drop 
them into some very thick Yilleroi sauce,* let 
them get hot in it, but not boil. Take them 
out one by one ; be sure they are thickly coat- 
ed with the sauce ; have a large dish heaped 
with sifted crumbs or cracker meal ; as you 
lift each oyster from the sauce lay it on the 
meal, turn it gently over in the meal, so that 
a light coat adheres, and the sauce is by no 
means rubbed off. Place them on an oiled 
plate where they Avill get quite cold, so that 
the sauce may chill and form a whitish glaze 
under the crumbs. Beat two eggs with two 
tablespoonf uls of water, and when free from 

* See No. II. 



72 CHOICE COOKERY. 

strings dip each oyster in the egg, using a 
small fork ; let superfluous egg drip off for a 
moment, then lay the oyster again on a deep 
bed of cracker crumbs, cover well, pat very 
gently, and lay each as you do it on a dish 
sprinkled Avith them. Fry two minutes in 
very hot deep fat, being careful the oysters 
do not touch each other. 

If I have made these directions as clear as 
I hope, it will be understood that each oyster 
has a rich creamy coating under the crumbs, 
and every effort must be made to avoid break- 
ing the outer shell of egg and crumb. For 
this reason the fat should be heated to 400°. 
But although great care in handling is neces- 
sary, they are not difficult to succeed with 
when that care is given. 

Oyster Kahohs. — There are two ways of 
preparing these dainties, and I give both. 
For those who cannot eat bacon the lirst will 
probably be acceptable. For kabobs of any 
kind, silver or plated skcAvers are proper, al- 
though very slender wooden ones may bo 



VARIOUS WAYS OF SERVING OYSTERS. 73 

used. Put in a stewpan a small onion chopped 
very fine, a dessertspoonful of parsley, and a 
dozen mushrooms, also chopped ; let these fry 
one minute in a large tablespoonful of but- 
ter, add a dessertspoonful (scant) of flour, 
stir all together, then drop in as many fat 
oysters as are required ; they must have been 
blanched in their own liquor and the beards 
removed ; stir all round, and add three beat- 
en yolks of eggs, one at a time, taking care 
they do not curdle, but get just thick enough 
to cling round the oyster. String six oys- 
ters on each little skewer, basting with the 
sauce wherever it does not adhere ; let each 
skewer cool, then roll the whole in beaten 
eggs and abundant cracker meal, so that the 
skewer will seem to be run through a sausage 
lengthwise. Fry two minutes in very hot 
deep fat, serve on a napkin ; allow one skew- 
er to each person. Two minutes, if the fat 
be sufficiently hot, will fry oysters a pale 
yellow-brown. They should never take long- 
er than this, for oysters harden and shrink if 



74 CHOICE COOKEEY. 

overdone in the least. For this reason the 
use of a pyrometer, when possible, saves mis- 
takes and trouble. Such articles as oysters, 
smelts, or any small things, should be fried 
at a temperature of 380° to 400°. It must 
be remembered that all fried articles darken 
after they leave the frying-kettle, and there- 
fore a very pale yellow becomes a golden 
color on the dish. 

Kabobs JS'o. 2. — This is the recipe given by 
the author of the well-known Pytchley Books, 
and is admirable. Take the beards from as 
many fat, fair-sized oysters as required. You 
require bacon of which the fat is thick enough 
through to allow of circles being cut from the 
slices as large as the oysters. Cut the bacon 
very thin, get a cutter the size of the oysters, 
trim them with it, then cut eight circles of ba- 
con for six oysters. Put first a piece of ba- 
con, then an oj^ster, then more bacon, on each 
little skewer, till there are six oysters with 
a piece of bacon between each through the 
centre and one at each end ; string them very 



VARIOUS WAYS OF SERVING OYSTERS. 75 

evenly. Take a very little cayenne on the 
tip of a knife and a saltspoonful of salt; 
mix this with two beaten eggs to which two 
tablespoonfuls of water have been added. 
Dip each skewer of kabobs in this ; let them 
drip an instant, then lay them on a deep bed 
of crumbs or cracker meal. Cover them thor- 
oughly, shake them, then dip again into the 
egg (if this has become full of crumbs strain 
it), and again lay them in the meal. Shake 
lightly again, and arrange each skewer of ka- 
bobs in a frying-basket, and fry two minutes. 
I have spoken in the foregoing directions 
for ^' crumbing " of using plenti/ of meal, and 
experience tells me that the rule with those 
unfamiliar Avith proper methods is to use so 
little that a plateful would be considered 
plenty. With this quantity no good work 
can be done. You need to turn on to a 
board or dish at least a quart of crumbs, or 
a whole box of cracker meal. This will en- 
able you to smother the article until every 
part is covered, instead of sprinkling a little 



76 CHOICE COOKERY. 

over and under (which generally falls off as 
fast as put on, and leaves a surface yellow 
with egg in parts), as you must do if a small 
quantity only is used. All the meal that is 
left must be carefully sifted and put away. 
If the small masses of egg and crumb which 
will be mixed w^th it are not sifted out the 
cracker-meal cannot be used again. There 
must also be plenty of egg used for dipping. 
Oysters in Aspic. — For these dariole moulds 
are needed, or the small fire-proof china souf- 
flee cases which imitate paper may be used. 
A dariole is a small straight-sided tin mould, 
holding rather less than a gill. They will 
be found at large house-furnishing stores, or 
a tinman could easily make them, they be- 
ing, in fact, like deep corn-muffin pans. If 
they are made to order, avoid getting them 
too large — three inches deep by two across 
will be large enough. Fill these moulds with 
aspic jelly nearly cold, set them on ice w^hile 
you prepare the oysters, which must be beard- 
ed and cooked till plump in butter, but not 



VARIOUS WAYS OF SEBVINO OYSTERS. 77 

allowed to color. When cool, cut them in 
half, throw them into some stiff bechamel,* 
which must be warmed till like thick cream, 
sprinkle with a dust of cayenne ; lay the oys- 
ters to get cold, that the bechamel may hard- 
en on them. Scoop the centre very careful- 
ly out of the moulds of aspic, leaving a half- 
inch thickness all round, fill the centres with 
the oysters, pour in more aspic, cold, but not 
set, and put on ice for a few hours, or till 
ready to serve. The aspic from the centres 
should have been preserved and used to chop 
Avith more to garnish the dish. Turn the 
moulds out ver}^ carefully, and garnish with 
chopped aspic and watercress or parsley. 

It is, of course, understood that bechamel 
sauce, cold, is like blanc-mange, and that any- 
thing coated with it will be enveloped in w^hite 
jelly, not in a sticky white sauce. If bechamel 
does not become white jelly when cold the 
stock of which it is made is not stiff enough. 

Lobster in Aspic is prepared as for salad, 

* See No. II. 



78 CHOICE COOKERY. 

the solid meat cut in dice and rolled in may- 
onnaise, then in chopped chervil or parsley. 
Then proceed exactly as for the oysters. 

Oysters d la Tartare. — The oyster-shells 
for serving oysters a la Tartare must be of 
good shape and exquisitely clean ; therefore, 
when using oysters on the half -shell, always 
pick out any that may be deep yet stand 
well, and have a good shape ; scald and scrub 
them, and keep for use. Scald as many fat 
oysters as required in their own liquor till 
firm— three minutes at boiling-point will usu- 
ally do this ; the oysters must be just plump, 
yet if underdone they will be flabby. Put 
them on ice, choose as many tiny leaves as 
you have oysters from the heart of a lettuce ; 
they must all be of a size, or trimmed so, and 
the size only just large enough to line the 
shells without coming over them. Lay a 
leaf on each shell, cut each oyster in half, 
lay four halves in pyramid fashion on the 
lettuce leaf, and mask the top of each, just 
before serving, with Tartare sauce. Allow 
tw^o to each person. 



IX. 

VARIOUS CULINARY MATTERS. 

Tins little book does not pretend to go into 
what may be called the principles of cooking, 
except in so far as they are involved in the 
production of all choice cookery ; and where 
it is considered that a principle is little known 
or too little attended to, the effort will be 
made to give it emphasis by reiteration here. 

By principles of cooking I mean the sim- 
ple rules by which roasting, boiling, stew- 
ing, etc., are successfully accomplished. Any 
book or series of articles written a dozen 
years ago would have been of no real use 
without these rudiments, but within that pe- 
riod there have been cooking-schools start- 
ed and cookery books written so exceeding- 
ly exact in directions that it will be unneces- 
sary to repeat them in " Choice Cookery," 



80 CHOICE COOKERY. 

which does not pretend to include family 
cooking. 

For this reason the cooking of joints of 
meat will not be entered into. Nevertheless 
there are certain rudiments of cooking which 
are not dwelt on usually in books. They are 
taught in the cooking-schools, and those of 
my readers who have had the advantage of 
attending them wiU not need the instruction 
here given. But I meet Avith many women 
who devote much time to the art of cooking, 
and who have taught themselves by book and 
experiment all they know, who yet, when told 
to chop a small quantity of herbs very fine, 
Avill struggle and chop almost leaf by leaf in 
their faithful endeavor to carry out the di- 
rection. Others, less faithful, finding their 
method chops some parts fine and leaves 
some leaves almost whole, let it go at that, 
with the reflection that '' that must do, as it 
would take all day " to get them all one de- 
gree of fineness. So, although it may seem 
almost too trivial a point to need mention, 



VAEIOUS CULINARY MATTERS. 81 

we will go into the matter of herb-chopping, 
lemon-grating, etc., that the simple opera- 
tions may be performed easily and in a very 
short time. 

To Chop Herbs. — Use the leaves only, never 
the stems ; let them be fresh and crisp, or, 
if wilted, leave them in water for a time. 
Gather the leaves firmly between the thumb 
and three fingers of the left hand ; shave 
them through with a sharp knife as you push 
them forward under it. (The process resem- 
bles chaff-cutting by hand machine.) Turn 
them round ; gather them up again, and cut 
across them in the same way ; then finish by 
chopping quickly, holding the point of the 
knife with the left hand and bringing it dowm 
on the little heap of herbs with the right, al- 
ways gathering them together as fast as the 
chopping scatters them. Five minutes will 
chop a tablespoonful of mint or parsley al- 
most to pulp. A sharp steel knife and a 
small board must be used, not the chopping- 
bowl. 
6 



82 CHOICE COOKERY. 

French books often direct so much fine 
herbs to be used ; English books .mean the 
same thing when they call for " sweet herbs," 
and a mixture of one part marjoram, two 
parts thyme, and three parts parsley is meant 
by both. 

The grating of a lemon is a most simple 
operation, and it may seem that every one 
must know how to do it ; but this is far from 
being the case. As many dishes of curdled 
custards and sauces are caused by this fact, 
the right way in this case, is very important. 
The object of using grated rind of lemon is 
to obtain the fragrance and flavor, which dif- 
fer very greatly from any extracts, hoAvever 
good. Now the whole of the oil which con- 
tains this fragrance is at the surface — is, in 
fact, the yellow portion of the rind ; therefore 
this, and only this, must be removed with 
the grater. The white part underneath is 
bitter, and will cause milk or cream to curdle, 
but it contains no particle of lemon flavor. 
Yet when lemon flavor is called for the 



VARIOUS CULINARY MATTERS. 83 

lernon is often grated right down to the pulp 
in parts, while the yellow rind is left on in 
patches. 

A lemon should be grated evenly, begin- 
ning at the end and working round it, using 
as small a surface of the grater as possible, 
to prevent waste. The habit of turning the 
lemon as you grate comes as easily as to turn 
an apple under the knife Avhen peeling. Gen- 
erally twice across the grater and back be- 
tween each turn will remove all the essential 
oil, but, while guarding against grating too 
deeply, care must be taken to remove the 
whole of the yellow surface. A well-grated 
lemon should be exactly of the same shape as 
before, have no deep scores into the pith, and 
have an oily-looking surface. 

Perhaps before proceeding to the prepa- 
ration of the combination dishes known as 
made dishes or entrees, a few words may be 
useful to those readers whose ambition to ac- 
complish results may cause them to defeat 
their own ends. To such I would say, go 



84 CHOICE COOKERY. 

slowly ; never attempt the more difficult 
thing until the simpler one is beyond chance 
of failure. Thus in following the instructions 
in this book the Aviser women will have accom- 
plished, perhaps, each week one or two things 
they may have selected, and it must not be 
forgotten the plan of the work is that one 
recipe shall serve as a key to many others. 

A great many will very likely have delayed 
trying to make the sauces until the dish for 
which they will be required is given. This is 
a mistake, because it is less annoying to fail 
with a sauce with no dish depending on it, 
than, say, w^hen you have decided to have 
sole d la Villeroi, the soles being ready, and 
fail with the sauce. 

I hope that no failure wall come to any 
one trying the recipes here given, but in 
some cases, especially in sauces thickened 
with eggs, a second's diverted attention may 
cause failure without fault of the cook. There- 
fore it is best to make single experiments 
when there is no danger of being disturbed, 



VARIOUS CULINARY MATTERS. 85 

and when there is nothing else to be attended 
to. The successful result need never be lost, 
for in the case of sauces they can be reheat- 
ed the next day in a bain-marie, or pan of 
hot water ; the same with the soups, and, in- 
deed, most other things, except soufflees ^nd 
omelets. 

But, above all things, never try a recipe 
for the first time the day you wish it to ap- 
pear perfect on your table ; try it long be- 
fore, and if you fail, make the same thing 
over again, reading the directions very care- 
fully ; some trifling caution or precaution 
may have escaped you. l^o one ever learns 
to draw so simple a thing as a circle who is 
discouraged at the first bad curve, and leaves 
it for easier lines. Keep on at the thing you 
select to do until you succeed, always choos- 
ing and ])erfecting the easiest thing in each 
class first. 



X. 

ENTRIES. 

Fillet of Beef. — This favorite dish with 
French and Americans may be roasted whole, 
or cut so as to serve individually. To roast 
it whole, it must be trimmed perfectly round, 
and either larded or not as taste may dictate. 
A fillet weighing four pounds should be 
roasted three quarters of an hour in a sharp 
oven. It may then be served a la Chdteauhri- 
and by pouring over it half a pint of the sauce 
of that name, with horseradish sauce, or 
brown mushroom sauce (brown sauce with 
mushrooms added). 

To serve individually, fillets are prepared 
in the following way : Cut a fillet into eight 
slices three quarters of an inch thick; trim 
the slices into perfect circles, all exactly the 
same size ; flatten them ; put them in a hot 



ENTREES. 87 

pan, and saute for seven or eight minutes in 
two ounces of butter; dress thera round a 
dish, and pour over them the sauce from 
which the dish will take its name. 

Filets de Bmufdla Bearnaise. — Serve with 
half a pint of Bearnaise sauce. 

Filets de Bmuf aux Champignons. — Dress 
as before ; leave in the centre of the dish 
room for a mound of stewed mushrooms ; 
pour over the fillets half a pint of rich browm 
sauce. Serve these dishes as soon as cooked : 
the meat is spoiled by waiting. 

I have received several letters from readers 
living where lobster is only to be had in cans, 
asking if there is no substitute for the coral 
in making cardinal sauce. Canned lobster 
frequently contains a great deal of coral, 
which is as good for coloring and flavoring 
as the fresh. This can only be known, how- 
ever, before opening, when the cans are of 
glass. The pulp of red beet-root passed 
through a sieve and added to white sauce or 
mayonnaise gives a beautiful red tint; but 



88 CHOICE COOKEEY. 

the flavor, while excellent for a salad or as 
vegetable sauce, would be unsuitable for serv- 
ing with fish. 

Grenadines of Beef with Mushrooms and 
Poivrade Sauce. — Take as many slices of 
fillet of beef, cut three quarters of an inch 
thick, as you require. Trim them to a pear 
shape, three and a half inches long and three 
wide at the broadest part. Lard these with 
bacon, and put them into a saute pan with a 
gill of brown sauce and a glass of sherry 
(half the sauce if there are very few grenar 
dines) ; let them cook gently for fifteen min- 
utes. Dissolve a piece of glaze the size of a 
walnut by putting it in a cup which is set in 
boiling water ; when dissolved, take up the 
grenadines, dish them in a circle, and glaze 
them (a brush is properly used for this pur- 
pose, but the glaze can be spread with a knife 
dipped in hot water). Fill the centre of the 
circle with a pyramid of small mushrooms 
mixed with a gill and a half of poivrade sauce.* 

* See No. IV. 



ENTREES. 89 

Fillets of Beef a la Grande-Bretagne. — Cut 
two pounds of iillet into neat slices an inch 
thick ; sHt them (with a small French boning- 
knife or small penknife) in such a way that 
you form a pocket in each the mouth or 
opening of which is smaller than the pocket 
itself. This can be done by laying the fillet 
flat on a board, laying your hand on the top 
of it, making a slit two inches wide, then 
with the point of the knife enlarging the 
slit inside, but not the entrance to it. The 
opening should extend half-way through ; 
into this put a force-meat made of horserad- 
ish sauce "^ and macaroni boiled and cut fine. 
The force-meat must be used sparingly, so as 
not to increase materially the thickness of 
the fillet ; fasten the opening of each with a 
wooden toothpick. Saute these fillets for 
fifteen minutes; glaze them as directed in 
last recipe ; arrange them in a circle, with a 
pyramid of tiny potato balls in the centre. 
Pour rich brown sauce round. 

*SeeNo.V. 



90 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Mutton Cutlets d la cF Uxelles. — Cut some 
cutlets from the neck of mutton, leaving two 
bones to each, trim very carefully, remove 
the upper part of one bone, split the cutlets 
without separating them at the bone, spread 
some thick d' Uxelles sauce^" inside, fold the 
cutlets together, run a toothpick through 
them, and broil for four minutes on each side 
over a hot fire. Have a layer of chopped 
mushrooms stewed in butter in the dish, lay 
the cutlets on it, pour over some d' Uxelles 
sauce, and garnish with truffles, cut in very 
thin circles. 

Mutton Cutlets a la Milanais. — Take six 
cutlets from a neck of mutton ("French 
chops," many butchers term them), mix 
equal quantities of grated Parmesan cheese 
and cracker meal. Dip the cutlets into rich 
thick brown sauce,t then into the cracker 
and Parmesan ; shake off loose crumbs ; dip 
them now into beaten egg in which a little 
salt and very finely chopped parsley and 

* See No. 11. t See No. IV. 



ENTREES. 91 

chives have been mixed, and then dip them 
a second time in the Parmesan and bread 
crumbs ; drop them into a kettle of very hot 
fat ; in four minutes they will be done. Do 
not fry more than four at a time, as too many 
cool the fat. Dish them in a circle with spa- 
ghetti dressed with Parmesan in the centre. 
It seems to me just here that before giv- 
ing further recipes for fried articles I had 
better make sure that all my readers un- 
derstand the process of frying in deep fat. 
I have used the Avord saute too, and although 
no doubt both these processes are familiar to 
most readers Avho would be likely to practise 
" Choice Cookery," for those who are not 
adepts many of the recipes would be impos- 
sible to execute. Frying, once understood, 
is so easy a process one wonders that so few 
should excel in it. To those who are not 
sure of themselves I recommend practice. 
A couple of hours' practice and careful ob- 
servance of rules will enable a bright woman 
to fry successfully. 



92 CHOICE COOKERY. 

For this practice you may prepare several 
different articles and fry one after the other 
— one or two very soft and creamy croquettes, 
one or two breaded articles, especially such 
as are dipped in thick sauce before being 
crumbed, etc. 

The principle on w^hich articles that are 
very soft and creamy, underneath the sur- 
face of egg and crumbs, are fried is this : the 
creamy substances, whether rich sauce like 
d'Uxelles and Villeroi, or the cream used to 
mix croquettes, must always be made of 
stock that w411 jelly w^hen cold. The sauce 
is used Avarm, and the articles are put to chill 
on ice, so that they are in a jellied condi- 
tion. ]N"ow the fat into which they are 
plunged must be so hot that it sets the coat- 
ing of egg and crumbs, which forms a thin 
shell, as it were, before the jelly has had 
time to melt ; the shell once formed, the in- 
terior cooks in the intense heat very quick- 
ly. If the fat w^ere not hot enough, cro- 
quettes would go all to pieces, and articles 



ENTREES. 93 

coated with sauce would lose the better 
part of it. 

To fry, you require a stewpan or iron ket- 
tle ; those called Scotch kettles are best, as 
they set into the range readily. A frying- 
pan i» only useful for sauteing in little fat. 
Articles to be fried must be immersed in fat, 
and no frying-pan is deep enough to do this 
safely. Put two to three pounds of clarified 
dripping or lard into the kettle, and let it get 
very hot. This will be after it ceases to 
sputter — some time after, perhaps ; but you 
must now begin to watch for smoke to rise 
from the centre. Have near you some little 
squares of bread crumb ; drop one in from 
time to time; only when it colors immedi- 
ately is the fat hot enough. At this point 
no time must be lost, and your frying be- 
gins. 

Of course you will have the articles you 
intend to fry right at hand. You will also 
need a large dish, in which you lay com- 
mon butcher's wrapping-paper (often called 



94 CHOICE COOKERY. 

" kitchen paper ") and a perforated skimmer 
— some like a frjing- basket, and for very 
small things it is an assistance; but for 
croquettes, cutlets, etc., it is not necessary : 
they can be laid on the skimmer and 
dropped in the fat. 

The easiest and safest Avay to fry is to 
use a cooking thermometer (pyrometers or 
frimometers they are sometimes called), 
and let the fat be 380° for croquettes, 
oysters, and articles that only require two 
minutes' cooking ; 360° for cutlets and heav- 
ier articles. 

The time required for articles to cook in 
the frying-kettle seems astonishingly short. 
For instance, a breaded chop will be cooked 
to a medium degree in two and a half min- 
utes, well done in three minutes ; but it must 
be remembered the heat is intense. Cro- 
quettes must never be left longer than two 
minutes, while whitebait (which, however, 
require special instruction to fry without 
getting them into a cake) need less than a 



ENTKEES. 95 

minute. Potatoes require longer than most 
things; but the fat need not be cooler at 
first, as would seem necessary, because they 
are so full of water, even when well dried, 
that they cool the fat rapidly. 

Saitteing (a word that would be expressive 
of the process in English would be a boon 
to writers on cooking). — The process gener- 
ally meant by " frying " is really sauteing ; 
yet so general has been the misconception 
among all but professed cooks, that one has 
to take the precaution in giving directions 
for frying to say, " Fry in deep fat." It 
ought to be understood that to fry is to im- 
tnerse in hot fat. If some term suitable for 
kitchen use could be found, half the difficul- 
ty would be over. In old English books a 
very fair translation was used; they told 
you to "toss the article in butter," but 
though it rendered saute "jump" fairly, it 
did not express the process. There is neither 
tossing nor jumping about it, unless an occa- 
sional shake to the pan be called so ; and as 



96 CHOICE COOKERY. 

" |lat frying," " dry frying," are awkward, 
the sooner we boldly take saute into com- 
mon use, and let it become a kitchen word 
as familiar as fricassee (which surely must 
have been very unfamiliar once), the better. 
To saute — although every Bridget or 
Gretchen fancies she can do it — requires 
nicety and care to do it well, and is far more 
difficult than "frying in deep fat." The 
pan requires to be hot, also the fat or butter 
used, which should cover the bottom of the 
pan ; a bright fire is required. Things that 
take long to cook require more fat than 
those that require but a short time. Ejffort 
must be made to adjust the proportion, as 
adding cold fat prevents browning. Yeal 
cutlets and many other things are far better 
sauted than fried. The articles sauted re- 
quire to be watched that they do not burn ; 
yet they must not be too often turned, or 
they will not brown — except, of course, such 
things as are chopped, which require fre- 
quent stirring up. 



enteep:s. 97 

In speaking of chilling articles coated 
with sauce to be fried, I omitted to give the 
caution that, in the case of meats, care must 
be taken not to leave them long enough to 
freeze the meat. 
T 



XI. 

ENTREES OF MUTTOX CUTLETS OR CHOPS. 

Mutton Cutlets a la Duchesse. — Take as 
many cutlets (or French chops) as required. 
Stew them in stock, with a small bouquet of 
herbs, very gently until they are perfectly 
tender. Take them up, skim the stock, and 
strain it ; return to a small saucepan, and re- 
duce the liquid to a glaze ; dip each cutlet in 
the glaze and lay it aside. Have ready what 
cooks now call a " panada," made of a gill of 
thick white sauce, two yolks of eggs stirred 
into it and allowed to approach the boiling- 
point, but not to boil (this, of course, must be 
done in a double boiler), or the eggs will cur- 
dle ; chop a dessertspoonful of parsley very 
fine ; parboil and chop also very fine three 
onions ; pound thoroughly in a mortar eight 
mushrooms; stir these all into the thick 



ENTREES. 99 

sauce, with a saltspoonful of salt and a quar- 
ter one of pepper. Eoll each cutlet in this 
force-meat (if found too stiff to adhere prop- 
erly, moisten with a little cream or a little 
liquor from the mushrooms), lay them on a 
fire-proof dish, and cover with bread crumbs 
and bits of butter. Bake them until they 
are a golden brown. Serve with brown Sou- 
bise sauce. 

Lamh Cutlets en Concoiiibre. — Trim and 
cut six lamb cutlets three quarters of an inch 
thick, flatten them a little to make them of 
equal size and thickness; flour them, and 
saute them in butter five minutes. The fire 
must be sharp, because they must be a nice 
brown on both sides. Arrange them round 
an entree dish, with a gill of brown sauce 
poured outside, and a pint of fillets of cu- 
cumber in the centre. 

To Prepare Fillets of Cucumher. — Cut firm 
fresh cucumbers lengthwise through the mid- 
dle, remove seeds and all soft parts, cut into 
inch lengths and into olive shapes all the 



100 CHOICE COOKERY. 

same size. Put them into a stewpan with 
an ounce of butter, a pinch of pepper, a salt- 
spoonful of sugar and one of salt, and let 
them stew until quite tender, without acquir- 
ing any color. To do this the stewpan must 
be closely covered and frequently shaken. 

Lamb Cutlets with a Puree of Mushrooms. — 
Trim and cook and serve the cutlets as in 
the foregoing recipe, only in place of the cu- 
cumbers make a puree of mushrooms in the 
following way : stew half a pint of button 
mushrooms and part of their liquor in half 
a pint of white sauce until they are very ten- 
der (taking care the sauce does not burn), 
pound them in a mortar, then force them 
through a vegetable strainer; then add 
enough of the white sauce in which they 
were stewed to make the puree the sub- 
stance of very thick cream. 

Cold Lamb Cutlets in Mint Jelly. — Roast a 
piece of what butchers call the rack of lamb, 
which is really the neck and ribs. Let it get 
cold ; cut from it six cutlets, which trim just 



ENTEEES. 101 

as if they were uncooked ; that is to say, re- 
move meat and fat from the bone, and scrape 
it. Mask each of the cutlets in mint jelly* 
warmed enough to be half fluid. Arrange 
very carefully round an entree dish when they 
are perfectly set, so that the jelly will not 
come off. Have a Russian salad in the centre. 
How to Prepare the Salad. — To prepare 
this you require two or three small vegetable 
cutters of pretty shape; use them to trim 
carrots, white turnips, and cucumbers into 
small, attractive forms; boil these in sep- 
arate waters till tender; also green peas, 
sprays of cauliflower, and very tiny young 
string-beans. Throw each vegetable as it is 
cooked into ice-cold water to keep the color. 
Have some red beet-root boiled hefor^e it is 
cut into shapes. Use equal quantities of each 
vegetable. Arrange them with peas in the 
centre, and the others in circles round, study- 
ing the effect of color ; then dress, but do not 
mask, them with green mayonnaise. 
* For recipe, see No. V. 



103 CHOICE COOKERY. 

At seasons when materials for Kussian 
salad cannot readily be obtained the chops 
may be served with a centre of cucumber 
salad, or one made of the small white leaves 
of lettuce. 

Cutlets Chaiidfroid a la Busse. — For this 
cold dish mutton cutlets are used. They 
must be of the finest quality, and from 
mutton not newly killed. Cut as many 
cutlets as required, trim, and scrape the 
bone. Braise for an hour in a moderate 
oven till the meat is very tender, remove, 
and press between two dishes until they are 
cold. Then trim each cutlet into perfect 
shape. Boil a quart of strong stock (which 
already jellies) down to less than half a pint ; 
dip each chop into this glaze once or twice, 
till they look "varnished." You now re- 
quire a pint of stiff aspic jelly ; turn it out 
of the bowl, cut one or two slices a quarter 
of an inch thick from it, to be cut into shapes 
(or croutons) with a cutter to garnish the 
cutlets. Chop the rest of the aspic, lay it 



ENTREES. 103 

round the dish, and the cutlets against it, 
with the croutons of aspic to form the outer 
edge. The centre must be filled with a Rus- 
sian salad, in this case stirred up with very 
thick mayonnaise, instead of being formally 
arranged. The mayonnaise must be only 
suificient to dress the vegetables, none to run 
into the other materials, and beet-root must 
be added last, as it discolors the sauce if 
stirred up in it. 

ENTREES OF SWEETBREADS. 

Sweetbreads a la Supreme. — Take two 
plump sweetbreads, lay them an hour in 
strong salt and water, then boil them for ten 
minutes in fresh water ; put them between 
two plates to flatten till cold. Cut off all 
the gristle and loose skin from underneath ; 
put them to stew very gently in half a pint 
of good-flavored stock. Take them up, drain 
well, and stew them in half a pint of sauce 
supreme, with a dozen small mushrooms, for 
ten minutes. 



104 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Sweetbreads with Oysters. — Prepare the 
SAveetbreads as in the foregoing recipe, quar- 
ter them, and put them in a stewpan with a 
gill of white stock, the strained liquor from 
two dozen oysters, a salt spoonful of salt, a 
pinch of pepper, and a suspicion of nutmeg. 
Put two ounces of butter in a stewpan over 
the fire, stir into it one tablespoonful of fine 
flour ; let them bubble together, stirring the 
while, one minute. When the sweetbreads 
have been simmering twenty minutes, pour 
the gravy from them to the sauce ; stir quick- 
ly till smooth. If thicker than very thick 
cream, add a little more stock. In fi\Q 
minutes add the oysters. Keep at loiling- 
jpoint^ but not boiling, till the oysters are 
firm and plump. Do not leave them in the 
sauce a minute beyond this, or they will be- 
gin to shrink. Take them and the sweet- 
breads up, and if the sauce is too thin to bear 
a wineglass of cream, boil it rapidly down 
till very thick; then skim, and just before 
pouring over the sweetbreads stir in a wine- 



Ei^TKEES. 105 

glass of thick cream. If it goes in earlier it 
may curdle. 

It has been explained before, but I repeat 
it here, that there must never be too much 
sauce, however good, to any dish, and that 
the consistency is most important : it must 
be thick enough to mask a spoon, yet run 
from it freely. ]N"othing can be worse than 
a dab of white mush being served as sauce, 
unless it be a quantity of thin, milky soup 
floating on every plate. This is where the 
happy medium must be struck. It is per- 
fectly easy to give exact proportions to pro- 
duce certain degrees of thickness, and this 
has been done in the chapters on sauces ; but 
where these sauces are used as a medium in 
which to cook, for instance, sweetbreads, a 
certain amount of liquid must be added to 
prevent burning. Now it is impossible to 
say how fast this added liquid will diminish 
if the simmering is as slow as it should be, 
it may lose hardly at all, in which case the 
articles stewed must be taken out, and a few 
minutes' hard boiling given to evaporate the 



106 CHOICE COOKERY. 

liquid and bring the sauce back to the proper 
point. 

Sweetbreads in Cases. — Prepare two sweet- 
breads as directed in the foregoing recipes. 
Put them in a stewpan with a thin shce of 
fat boiled ham, half a carrot, half a turnip, 
and a small onion, all cut small, and laid as 
a bed under the sweetbreads ; put in a gill of 
broth, a bouquet of herbs, and half a salt- 
spoonful of salt, with a pinch of pepper. Let 
them stew, closely covered, one hour, turning 
them after the first half-hour. When done, 
take them up and drain them. When cold, 
cover w^ith thick d'Uxelles sauce ; sprinkle 
thickly with very fine bread crumbs. Make 
two rough paper cases, butter each liberally, 
and very carefully lay each sweetbread in 
one, crumbed side uppermost. Put them in 
a quick oven till pale brown. Have ready 
proper sweetbread cases, slip them neatly 
into them, and serve. 

These are excellent cold, in which event 
they should not be shifted from the rough 
case until ready to serve. 



XII. 

ON THE MANNER OF PREPARING CROQUETTES, CUT- 
LETS, KROMESKIES, RISSOLES, AND CIGARETTES. 

Although these ever-popular dishes are all 
or may all be prepared from one mixture, 
there is a difference in the manner of using 
it which I will here explain. 

Croquettes are made from a soft creamy 
mixture chilled on ice till firm enough to 
mould, then simply dipped into egg and 
crumbs and fried in very hot fat. 

Cutlets are the same (of course fancy 
cutlets are meant, not the French chops, so 
called), only they are shaped to imitate a 
real cutlet, with a little bone inserted ; or, in 
the case of lobster cutlets, a small claw is 
used to simulate the chop bone. Many only 
stick a sprig of parsley where the bone should 
be, to keep up the fiction. 

Kromeskies are rolls of the same mixture 



108 CHOICE COOKERY. 

enveloped in very thin slices (hardly thicker 
than paper) of fat larding pork; a small 
toothpick holds the pork in place. The rolls 
are then egged, crumbed, and fried. 

Hissoles are the same thing, only rather 
easier to prepare, being rolled in very thin 
pastry instead of pork. 

Cigarettes^ the newest variation of the 
favorite entree, and most dainty of them all 
in appearance, are thin rolls of croquette 
mixture (or, better still, quenelle meat) not 
thicker than a small cigar. These are rolled 
in pastry, thoroughly deadened, pinched very 
securely, and fried a very pale brown. 

As the manner of making the mixture is 
about the same for all kinds of meats, fish, 
or game, varying only in flavor — a little 
Avine, a little onion, or sweet herbs taking 
the place of the mushrooms in some cases — 
I will give exact directions for making sweet- 
bread cutlets ; chicken, game, or fish may be 
substituted for the sweetbreads, naming them 
accordingly. The ham may always be omit- 



CUTLETS OF SWEETBREADS. 109 

ted where the flavor is objected to. For those 
who like it, it adds very much to sweetbreads, 
but would be out of place with game, which 
should depend on its own individual flavor. 

Cutlets of Sweetbreads. — Soak a pair of 
sweetbreads in salt and water for an hour — 
longer if there is much blood about them ; 
then cook them half an hour in stock. Drain 
them and let them get cold. Trim off all 
superfluous fat and gristle ; chop them with 
one ounce of lean boiled ham to each pair of 
large sweetbreads, and half a can of mush- 
rooms, a small teaspoonful of salt, the sixth 
of one of pepper. Put an ounce of flour in a 
small thick saucepan with an ounce of but- 
ter; stir them together over the fire until 
they bubble ; then add a half -pint of liquid 
consisting of a gill of stiff jellied stock and a 
gill of thick cream; stir till they boil and 
form a smooth sauce; mix the sweetbread 
mixture with the sauce. 

The mixture should be a soft, creamy mass, 
not in any way so stiff as sausage-meat, or so 



110 CHOICE COOKERY. 

as to remain in a heap without spreading; 
when poured on a plate, it should be of a 
consistency that will slowly settle, yet there 
must not be any liquid whatever. On this 
question of consistency depends the quality 
of the croquettes, cutlets, etc., made from it. 
If too stiff, they will be dry and only a 
superior sort of hash ball. What you have 
to aim at is a croquette or cutlet that will 
ooze out of the thin shell of ^gg and crumb 
when pressed with a fork. Success in attain- 
ing this can always be secured by taking care 
to moisten the minced meat with a sauce 
made of very stiff jelly in the proportion of 
half a pint of liquid (the melted jelly and 
cream) and one ounce each of flour and but- 
ter. This will mix a pint of sweetbread and 
mushrooms, or rather less of dry meat, such 
as the breast of chicken, veal, etc. 

I dwell on this point because this class of 
entrees is always popular, and if the consist- 
ency is once well understood, success is cer- 
tain to follow. 



SWEETBREAD CKOQUETTES. HI 

When the mixture is poured into shallow 
dishes or plates, a piece of buttered paper 
should be laid over them, and then they 
should be placed on ice until quite firm. 
When ready, cut small pieces of the mixture, 
make them into shapes as nearly resembling 
a French chop as you can, using a very little 
cracker meal should they stick to your hands. 
Have before you a large dish of cracker meal 
and the yolks of two eggs beaten ^vith two 
small tablespoonfuls of water, cover each 
cutlet thoroughly with egg, then with meal, 
gently patting them to make the meal ad- 
here ; insert anything you please to repre- 
sent the bone (turkey ribs may be boiled 
white and kept for this purpose). Cutlets 
require to be dropped into very hot fat, and 
taken up within two minutes. Consult direc- 
tions for frying in former chapter. 

Sweetbread croquettes are simply made 
into cork or pear shapes, never large, instead 
of cutlets. When the w^hite meat of chicken 
replaces half the sweetbread, they are called 
Cutlets, or Croquettes, a la Keine. 



112 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Make no attempt to mould croquettes or 
cutlets until the mixture is firm enough to 
cut ; then handle very quickly, make into 
proper forms, finish them either as cutlets or 
what you wish, and let them remain in a cokl 
place for an hour or two before cooking ; this 
last direction may not be always possible, and 
to an expert is not necessary, but when time 
can be given the amateur should always plan 
to do it. 

But though in experienced hands it is pos- 
sible (though not so easy) to make croquettes 
and fry them as soon as breaded, do not be 
led to believe that you can dispense with 
putting the mixture on the ice the first time. 
I remember a young lady who was very 
proud of her croquettes telling me she never 
found it necessary to chill the mixture ; she 
could secure perfect shape without. I asked 
to see the process, and decided in my own 
mind that she must go widel}^ from the di- 
rections, and have her material as stiff as 
hash; but I found she solved the difficulty 



BRAISED SWEETBREADS. 113 

in a different way: she simply worked in 
quantities of cracker meal, using it like flour. 
Of course the croquettes ivere spoiled, al- 
though it was true they kept their shape, 
and I do not think the young lady realized 
at all that she was changing and impover- 
ishing the preparation altogether. 

Braised Sweetbreads. — Take a pair of 
sweetbreads, lay in salt and water for an 
hour, then blanch. Press slightly between 
two dishes ; when cold, remove all skin, fat, 
and gristle ; cut up very fine a small carrot, 
a turnip, and an onion ; pat them in a stew- 
pan with the sweetbreads, pour over them a 
pint of stock, lay a piece of buttered paper 
over them, and braise carefully for half an 
hour. Take them out of the stewpan, put 
them in a small meat-pan, boil the liquor 
rapidly a couple of minutes, then baste the 
sweetbreads w4th it several times ; put them 
in a quick oven to brown ; serve on slices of 
fried bread, pour half a pint of Spanish sauce 
round, and garnish with mushrooms. 
8 



114 



CHOICE COOKERY. 



Tartlettes of Chicken. — Cut six ounces of 
the breast of a cooked chicken into very 
small pieces, chop up one truffle, twelve 
mushrooms, and two ounces of lean boiled 
ham; stir them into a gill of white sauce. 
Butter thickly nine dariole moulds, line them 
neatly with quenelle meat,* of which you 
w411 require half a pound, fill the centre care- 
fully with the mixed chicken, cover the top 
carefully with quenelle meat, and steam for 
twenty minutes ; dish on a circle of spinach, 
pour bechamel sauce over and round, fill the 
centre of the dish with peas or mixed vege- 
tables. 

Chicken d la Holla/ndaise. — Take out the 
breast-bone of a large young fowl, and fill the 
space with the following force-meat : half a 
pint of fine bread-crumbs, an ounce and a 
half of butter, a small boiled onion chopped, 
and a dozen 03'^sters cut into small pieces ; a 
saltspoonf ul of salt, a pinch of pepper ; bind 

* See directions in No, IV. 



CHICKEN A LA HOLLANDAISE. 115 

together with an egg, sew up the fowl, and 
truss for roasting. Make a nice batter, as 
for fine fritters, and when the fowl has been 
in the oven half an hour, pour part of the 
batter over it ; when dry and beginning to 
brown, pour more, until it is thickly coated 
and a nice brown ; baste often ; cut up the 
chicken, and serve with AUemande sauce and 
lemon. 



XIII. 

PATTIES. 

The directions for making one kind will 
serve for patties generally. In cities the 
cases are very easily bought, but where they 
have to be made at home, only one who is 
already an expert in making puif -paste should 
attempt them. 

Patties w^hen served as an entree should 
be quite small, or half of them will certainly 
be left on the plates. 

Roll puif -paste a quarter of an inch thick 
for each patty, cut three circles from it, 
moisten the surface of two very slightly 
with water, place one on the other, then with 
a sharp penknife cut a circle nearly through 
the third round, leaving a margin of one 
third of an inch ; lay this round carefully on 
the other two ; brush the top with white of 



PATTIES. 117 

egg (be sure not to touch the sides), and 
bake in a very quick oven. Patties must 
be watched, and turned if they show signs 
of rising unevenly. When they are a fine 
yellow-brown take them out, and leave five 
minutes for them to cool slightly, then with 
a penknife or a boning -knife carefully re- 
move the top formed by the smaller circle 
you marked, and which (if the paste was 
very light and the oven in good condition) 
will probably have risen out of the centre. 
Be careful in handling these covers, for 
while warm they are very brittle. With a 
coffee-spoon remove the half-cooked dough 
from the centre of the patty, taking care, 
however, to leave sufficient thickness of in- 
ner crust to prevent the sauce from oozing 
through. 

The filling for patties can be made before 
it is needed ; but when that is done, it must 
be made quite hot before it is put into the 
cases, as, if it were put in cold, the pastry 
would burn before the inside became warm. 



118 CHOICE COOKERr. 

Dresden Patty Cases. — These make a very 
pretty kind of patty when puff-paste is not 
to be had, and even when it is are a desira- 
ble variety. They are made from fine hght 
baker's bread. Cut slices an inch and a half 
thick, then with a biscuit cutter about two 
inches in diameter cut circles from these 
slices, and with another cutter, a size smaller, 
press half-way through each. You will now 
have pieces of bread the size and shape of 
patties. Beat four eggs ; mix with a pint 
of milk and a saltspoonful of salt ; pour this 
into a shallow pan, and stand the bread pat- 
ties in it. The amount of milk and eggs 
must of course depend on the number of 
patties ; the proportion named is enough for 
six small ones. The patties must remain 
steeping until they are thoroughly soaked ; 
they must be carefully turned upside down 
when the lower part is sufficiently steeped. 
The time required will depend on the quality 
of the bread, but one hour will generally 
suffice. The bread must be thoroughly pen- 



PATTIES. 119 

etrated bj the custard, be almost as moist as 
mush, yet be in no danger (with careful hand- 
ling) of breaking. When sufficiently steeped, 
take each one on a cake turner and lay it on 
a drainer. (They may be prepared some 
hours before they are needed for cooking.) 
When quite drained, baste each one carefully 
with beaten egg till every part is coated, 
then smother it in cracker meal. Gently pat 
it to make it adhere, then slip the patty on 
to a dish till you are ready to fry. Do not 
attempt to move the patties with the hand 
or a spoon, but with a flat skimmer or cake 
turner. 

When prepared as directed, make three 
pounds of lard very hot in a deep frying-ket- 
tle,* place three of the patties on a fine w^ire 
frying-basket, and fry brown. The fat should 
be excessively hot, as the patties, being full 
of cold custard, will not burn, and will rapid- 
ly cool it. They should be a delicate brown 

* See full directions for fi'ying in No. X. 



120 CHOICE COOKERY. 

in six or seven minutes. Let the fat come 
back to the original intense heat before put- 
ting in the other patties. When they are 
fried, remove the centre you marked with 
the smaller cutter with a sharp thin knife 
and small teaspoon, leaving the sides about 
half an inch -thick. They are now ready to 
fill. If the patties are just right, the inside 
you remove should be of a custard-like text- 
ure, not like sopped bread : indeed, in eating 
them, the bread should not be easily detected. 
These patties are very delicious filled with 
any of the usual fillings, or, for dessert, with 
stiff preserve. They have no covers, conse- 
quently the filling should be piled high with- 
out allowing the sauce to run over, and gar- 
nished with parsley or water-cress. 

Sweetbread Patties. — Soak two very white 
sweetbreads in salt and water one hour ; par- 
boil for twenty minutes ; then let them cool ; 
remove the skin, fat, and gristle ; cut them 
into half -inch dice, and lay them aside while 
you prepare the following sauce : Put a gill 



PATTIES. 121 

of strong white stock into a small saucepan 
with a gill of mushroom liquor (and a dozen 
small mushrooms cut in four if approved) to 
boil. In another saucepan cook an ounce of 
flour and one of butter together, stirring till 
they bubble ; pour the two gills of stock 
quickly to it, and stir till smooth. Season 
with half a teaspoonful of salt and very lit- 
tle pepper; lay in the sweetbreads, and let 
them stew twenty minutes. Strain them off 
from the sauce, which boil down (stirring 
constantly to prevent burning) till very thick; 
then add a gill of thick fresh cream. The 
sauce should now be thick enough to mask 
the spoon very heavily ; pour it over the 
sweetbreads, and stir together. This is now 
ready for filling the patties. If mushrooms 
are not liked they may be omitted, the liq- 
uor replaced by a gill of stock and a tea- 
spoonful of white wine. 

Oyster Patties. — Take a dozen and a half 
Blue Points, scald them in their own liquor, 
but do not leave them a moment after they 



123 CHOICE COOKERY. 

reacli the boiling-point; strain, the liquor 
from them ; cut each oyster in four. Put a 
tablespoonful of flour and one of butter into 
a small saucepan over the fire, stir them to- 
gether until they bubble ; then pour to them 
half a pint of the strained liquor of the oys- 
ters, or part liquor and part stock. Stir con- 
tinually, and let the sauce boil yery thick ; 
then lay in the oysters, and simmer half a 
minute. The amount of seasoning required 
will depend on the saltness of the oysters, 
but a saltspoonful of salt will probably not 
be too much, a little pepper, and a teaspoon- 
ful of essence of anchovies — just enough to 
make the sauce a delicate salmon-color. For 
the last thing, stir in one small teaspoonful 
of lemon juice. The consistency of the sauce 
for all patties should be that of very thick 
double cream. When it is not thick enough, 
it can always be reduced by boiling down, 
taking care not to boil the meat or oysters, 
etc., in it. 

Chicken Patties. — Take the breast of a 



PATTIES. 123 

boiled chicken, cut it into dice ; use half a 
pint of the liquor in which it was boiled to 
make the sauce. Put this broth in a small 
saucepan with a teaspoonful of lean boiled 
ham chopped a little (take care there is not 
a particle of the outside of the ham, or it may 
impart a smoky flavor) ; let the ham simmer 
in the broth while you melt together a table- 
spoonful of flour and one of butter; when 
they bubble, and the broth has been boiled 
down to about one half, strain the latter into 
a half-pint measure, fill up with cream, and 
stir this quickly to the flour and butter. 
When the sauce is thick and smooth, put in 
the chicken; keep the mixture at boiling- 
point Hyq minutes, then set the saucepan in 
another of boiling water, and stir in the 
beaten yolks of two eggs ; only just let them 
thicken ; then remove from the fire, and use 
for filling the patty cases. A teaspoonful of 
sherry is often added to the sauce. If this 
filling is not used while hot, it must be re- 
heated in a double boiler and Avatched, or 



124 CHOICE COOKEKY. 

the eggs will curdle ; or the filling may be 
prepared and the eggs added after it is re- 
heated. 

Bouchees of any kind are simply patties 
made very small indeed — for this reason the 
filling is always cliopped instead of being cut 
into dice. 

The essence of anchovy mentioned is a 
most useful sauce for fish, and can be bought 
at any large grocery. 



xiy. 

ENTREES. 

In an earlier chapter I gave directions for 
quenelles as an adjunct to soups and for 
garnishing. Used in this way, they are only 
a revival of an old French fashion, coarsely 
imitated in the benighted days of Anglo- 
Saxon cookery by the English "force-meat 
balls." Lately, however, not only are que- 
nelles a great feature in high-class cookery 
as additions to made dishes, but they are a 
most fashionable and delicious entree, and 
replace with great advantage the too-fre- 
quent croquette. 

To prepare quenelle meat for entrees. 

Mode No. 1. — To make quenelle meat, a 
mortar is indispensable, as it must be pounded 
to a pulp that will go through a sieve, and I 
have known a persevering woman grate the 



126 CHOICE COOKERY. 

breast of chicken on a large grater, but this 
is very slow work. Take the white meat 
from a large, young, uncooked chicken, and re- 
move all skin, fat, and sinew. Melt together 
over the fire a scant tablespoonf ul of butter 
and one of flour ; when they are thick and 
smooth^ stir in a gill of boiling water quick- 
ly. This should now be a thick paste ; put 
it away to cool. Take half as much butter 
as you have of chicken, and half the quanti- 
ty of paste (technically called panada) that 
you have of butter. Put the paste into a 
mortar; pound it well; add the butter; 
pound again till smooth; add the chicken, 
cut up very small, and pound until the w^hole 
forms a smooth pulp. Add one whole egg 
and the yolks of three, the third of a salt- 
spoonful of white pepper (salt must depend 
on w^hether the butter seasons sufficiently). 
Work all well together, stir in half a gill of 
thick cream, and pass the whole through a 
wire sieve. Put the whole on ice to get 
firm. The quenelles should be about the 



ENTEEES. 127 

size of a small egg flattened; shape with 
two tablespoons dipped in flour. Have 
ready a frying-pan with boiling water in 
which is a saltspoonful of salt, lay each 
quenelle carefully in, and poach for ten min- 
utes. The water must boil very gently. 
Drain on a sieve ; serve with mushroom or 
tomato sauce. Have a little dried parsley 
and grated tongue or ham, and scatter alter- 
nately on each quenelle. 

Ifode JVo. 2. — One pound of lean veal cut- 
let ; pound it thoroughly in a mortar ; then 
rub it through a sieve, or it may be forced 
{after it is pounded) through a vegetable 
strainer. Steep a pound of bread crumb in 
tepid water ; wring it in a cloth to get rid 
of the moisture ; put it in a stewpan with a 
tablespoonful of butter and a pinch of salt. 
Stir it over the fire until it ceases to stick to 
the pan and forms a smooth paste. Place it 
between two plates to cool. This is called 
bread panada. Put into a mortar twelve 
ounces of the prepared veal, six ounces of 



138 CHOICE COOKERY. 

fresh butter, and eight ounces of the panada. 
Pound all well together; mix in gradually 
one whole egg, two tablespoonfuls of thick 
cream, and the yolks of four more eggs, a 
scant teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter-salt- 
spoonful of pepper. When this is all pound- 
ed into a smooth, compact mass, put it into a 
bo\yl and place it on ice until required for 
use. Mould and poach as described in last 
recipe. 

Great care is required in cooking quenelles, 
as if they are overdone they become tough ; 
ten minutes is enough for those the' size of a 
small egg. Before moulding the w^hole, 
poach a small one, break it open, and ascer- 
tain if it is smooth, light, yet firm. They 
should melt in the mouth. If they are at 
all tough, add a little more cream to the 
mixture, unless the toughness comes from 
over-boiling, Tvhich you must guard against. 
Yery elaborate quenelles are made with a 
core of dark meat, made by chopping up 
ham, tongue, or truffles very fine, and insert- 



I 



ENTREES. 129 

ing it in the centre while forming the que- 
nelles. Always serve quenelles with tomato, 
mushroom, or rich Spanish sauce. Dish in 
a circle, and fill the centre with spinach, 
green peas, or a macedoine of mixed veg- 
etables. 

The mode of preparing all quenelles is by 
one of the two methods just given, but they 
may be made of any kind of game, or the 
backs of hares or rabbits. Quenelles of salm- 
on, lobster, or other fish must of course be 
served with appropriate fish sauce. 

Timhale of Chicken a la Chamj^enois. — 
Chop a small slice of lean boiled ham, weigh- 
ing about two ounces, put into a saucepan 
with four chopped mushrooms, four truffles, 
and an ounce of butter ; stir in a moderate 
dessertspoonful of corn -starch and half a 
pint of stock and a gill of sherry; let this 
slowly simmer until reduced to one half. 
Skim off the fat, then stir in the finely 
chopped breast of a large chicken or of 
two small ones, six small pickled gherkins, 
9 



130 CHOICE COOKERY. 

a sprig of parsley, and six anchovies which 
have been soaked in milk. Make all hot 
over a slow fire, but do not let them boil. 
Line a mould with light puff -paste, pour 
the mixture into it, and bake one hour ; turn 
out and serve very hot. Garnish with fried 
parsley. 

Scallops of Chicken a la Perigord. — This 
dish may conveniently be made when the 
white meat of chicken is required for other 
purposes. 

Bone the legs of two large cliickens ; take 
half a pound of veal, a quarter of a pound of 
fat salt pork ; pound both in a mortar, then 
pass through a sieve ; add to this two table- 
spoonfuls of minced tongue, six truffles, and 
half a dozen button mushrooms, the yolks of 
two eggs, a saltspoonf ul of salt, and a vo^y 
little cayenne. Mix well. Stuff the legs of 
the fowls with this. Sewing them up neat- 
ly, wrap each up in buttered paper; put 
them in a stewpan with two ounces of but- 
ter and a carrot, turnip, and small onion cut 



ENTEEES. 131 

up ; add three quarters of a pint of brown 
stock. Put the stewpan in the oven, baste 
well, and cook gently one hour. When 
cooked, have ready a mound of spinach. 
Take a 1)67']/ sharp knife, cut the legs in 
slices so as to make circles like slices of sau- 
sage; strain off the gravy. Cook together 
a dessertspoonful of butter and flour; when 
they bubble, pour the strained gravy to it, 
with a gill of sherry and a little salt and 
pepper ; stir till smooth ; boil till as thick as 
cream. Dress the scallops of chicken in a 
circle round the spinach, pour the sauce 
round all, and insert bits of truffle and of 
tongue between the scallops. 

Chicken Souffle. — Pound three ounces of 
the white meat of cooked chicken as fine as 
possible ; mix with it half a pint of cream 
and three well beaten eggs, a few button 
mushrooms finely chopped, a saltspoonful 
of salt, a sixth of one of pepper, a dust of 
cayenne, and a speck of po wdered^nace. Pour 
the mixture in a well - buttered mould, tie 



132 CHOICE COOKERY. 

a cloth over it, and steam it half an hoar. 
It must stand quite upright in the steam- 
er. Turn out on a hot dish, and pour any 
rich brown sauce preferred around it. This 
souffle may be made of sweetbreads, or half 
and half. If individual souffles are preferred, 
butter as many dariole moulds as the mixt- 
ure will fill; lay at the bottom of each 
something by way of garnish — a little star 
or disk of tongue or ham for some, of truf- 
fle for others, of green gherkin for others — 
so that when turned out the top of the souf- 
fles will show spots of color. Half fill the 
moulds, and steam twenty minutes. 

Souffles of all kinds depend for excellence 
on being served the moment they are ready, 
and on the steam being kept up all the time 
they are cooking. When baked the oven 
must be very steady. 

Fritot of Chicken. — Take a cold chicken, 
cut it into small neat joints, season rather 
highly with salt and pepper, strew over 
them a small grated onion (or one very 



ENTKEES. 133 

finely chopped), and a dessertspoonful of 
chopped parsley. Cover them with oil, and 
then squeeze over them the juice of a lemon. 
Turn the pieces now and then, and let them 
remain until they have absorbed the flavor. 
Meanwhile make a batter of four table- 
spoonfuls of flour and about eight of milk, 
or as much as will make a thick smooth bat- 
ter ; stir into it a wineglass of brandy and 
an egg, the whole beaten to a high froth. 
Leave this batter in a warm place an hour 
before using, dip the pieces of chicken into 
it, and fry in very hot, deep fat. Serve piled 
high on a dish garnished with fried parsley. 



xy. 

ENTREES.— Continued. 

Cigarettes d la Heine. — These are the new- 
est development of the rissole and croquette. 
They require strict attention to details to se- 
cure perfect form. EoU puff -paste a quarter 
of an inch thick ; prick it all over — this is to 
deaden it ; roll it now till it is no thicker than 
cartridge-paper. Cut it with a sharp knife 
dipped in flour into strips about two inches 
and a half wide and about the length of a 
cigar ; lay on each strip a roll of chicken que- 
nelle meat that is very firm, and the roll not 
thicker than a lady's slender forefinger ; be 
careful that the meat reaches nearly the w^hole 
length of the paste, yet leaves a margin for 
closing, as the least oozing will spoil the ap- 
pearance. Moisten the edges of the paste all 
round with white of egg ; fold the paste over 
half an inch ; be very careful to see that it 



ENTREES. 135 

adheres thoroughly; then pinch the ends. 
Eoll them gently with a cool hand on the 
floured board to round them without pres- 
sure, taper off the ends cigar fashion. If 
they are softening, lay them on a floured 
plate on ice to get firm ; then roll them in 
egg and very finely sifted cracker meal. You 
may roll or improve the shape, if there is any 
irregularity, while crumbing them. Remem- 
ber what you aim to imitate is a cigar. The 
great danger for the first time is getting them 
too large ; they must therefore be very slen- 
der. Fry in deep fat just as rissoles ; serve 
on a napkin, log-house fashion. These dain- 
ties, as will have been seen, have a large 
amount of butter, and soften in a warm 
room; they must therefore be made in a 
cold room, and if set on ice some hours be- 
fore cooking will be much easier to fry with- 
out bending or twisting. 

Cigarettes d la Chasseur are, as the name 
indicates, made of game, in exactly the same 
way as the last recipe. 



136 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Lobster Quenelles. — Prepare with bread pa- 
nada as directed for quenelle meat. Poach 
and drain them. Then dish in a circle with 
thick Hollandaise sauce in the centre and 
round them. 

Chicken^ Tartle Fashion. — This requires a 
pullet or young hen about six months old. 
Bone the bird ; stuff with a force-meat made 
of four parts minced veal, two parts chopped 
hard eggs, a half part lean boiled ham, two 
parts mushrooms, and two parts ^a^6^ defoie 
gras. First make the veal and ham hot in 
a little butter, then add the mushrooms and 
faie gras ; moisten with stock or mushroom 
liquor, and gently simmer five minutes. Stir 
in two beaten yolks of eggs and a teaspoon- 
ful of lemon juice. Season with a saltspoon- 
f ul of salt, a quarter one of w^hite pepper, 
and a tiny pinch of nutmeg, grated. Stuff 
the fowl with this mixture ; sew it up with 
trussing-needle and string; turn the skin of 
the neck half over the head, and cut off part 
of the comb, which gives the appearance of 



ENTREES. 137 

the turtle's head. Scald and skin four chick- 
ens' feet; cut off the claws, and insert two 
where the wings ought to be and two in the 
thighs, so as to look like turtles' feet. Put 
in a stewpan a tablespoonful of chopped 
boiled ham, an onion, and a small carrot cut 
up, with a tablespoonful of butter ; let them 
brown very slightly, add half a pint of stock, 
skim it, lay the fowl in this stock, and stew 
gently for an hour and a half to two hours, 
or even longer, according to size. When quite 
tender take up the fowl, cut and remove the 
string with which it is sewn, lay it on its 
back on a dish, garnish the breast with sliced 
truffles cut in fancy shapes, place a crawfish 
tail to represent the turtle's tail. When eat- 
en hot serve veloute sauce. This is an excel- 
lent dish cold garnished with aspic. 

Baked Bavioli. — Four ounces of veal, six 
ounces of butter, three ounces of lean sau- 
sage-meat, a teaspoonful of mixed sweet 
herbs, a little salt and pepper. Pound all in 
a mortar; when smooth, pound separately 



138 CHOICE COOKERY. 

a gill of spinacli that has been boiled till just 
tender without losing color, and a quarter of a 
pound of cream cheese or rich cottage cheese, 
which must be squeezed in a cloth to remove 
all the milk. When smooth, pound all togeth- 
er, and stir in the yolks of two eggs. Make 
some pastry with half a pound of butter, 
three quarters of a pound of flour, and the 
yolks of two eggs; mix stiff, and roll till 
about as thick as a fifty-cent piece. Cut the 
paste in two parts. Take a medium-sized 
biscuit-cutter, mark half as many circles on 
one half the paste as you wish ravioli. Lay 
in the centre of each circle a mound of the 
force-meat — perhaps a large teaspoonful, 
only be careful to leave a quarter-inch mar- 
gin all round. Moisten this margin with a 
camel's-hair brush dipped in white of egg ; 
lay the second half of the pastry over these 
mounds ; press the cutter on each to trim 
them, and you have a number of little round 
patties ; press the edges together very well by 
curving the little finger round them. Have 



ENTKEES. 139 

some rich stock boiling in a stewpan ; poach 
the ravioli five minutes. Take them up, drain 
them well, arrange them in a fire-proof gratin 
dish, sprinkle them over with grated Parme- 
san cheese, pour in a very little stock, and 
bake brown in the oven. 

Veal Cutlets a la Primrose. — Take a pound 
of veal cutlet ; cut it up into small cutlets the 
size of a dollar, and perfectly round. Put 
two ounces of butter (which has been first 
melted to let the curd separate) into a sauce- 
pan, with three onions, two ounces of bacon 
cut into small dice, a bouquet of herbs (in- 
cluding bay-leaf). Fry, stirring frequently, 
for a quarter of an hour, then add a table- 
spoonful of corn-starch, a dessertspoonful of 
Tarragon vinegar, and a pint of strong stock. 
Let all simmer very gentl}^ for about one 
hour. Take up the cutlets, strain the gravy 
and pour it over them, then sprinkle with a 
tablespoonf ul of grated tongue, and the same 
quantity of parsley dried and crumbled small. 
Chicken may also be cooked in this way. 



140 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Quails a la Lucullus. — This, as its name 
implies, is a most expensive and luxurious 
way of serving these dainty birds, yet by 
management the livers of chickens may be 
saved a day or two by scalding them, and 
the opportunity taken when several are re- 
quired for general use during a week. Eone 
very carefully six or eight quails. Cut up 
three ounces of unsmoked bacon, put it in a 
saute pan, let it cook five minutes, then add 
the livers, a shallot sliced, a small bouquet, 
twelve white peppercorns, six cloves, a salt- 
spoonful of salt. Let all cook carefully ten 
minutes: nothing must burn or get very 
brown. When cooked, pound well in a mor- 
tar, pass through a sieve, then add three truf- 
fles chopped ; stuff each quail into shape, but- 
ter some paper cases known as " quail cases," 
put a quail into each case, a few drops of olive 
oil on each breast. Then put them in a quick 
oven for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour. 
For the gravy, put the bones of the quails in 
a stewpan, add a tablespoonf ul of glaze and 



ENTEEES. 141 

a gill of brown sauce, with one tablespoon- 
ful of water. Simmer till the gravy is well 
flavored from the bones, then strain, and add 
two tablespoonfuls of chopped truffles and 
half a gill of sherry. Put one tablespoonful 
of this sauce over each quail before sending 
it to the table, after very carefully draining 
all grease from the quails. These are served 
in the papers, but rough paper cases may be 
made to bake them in, and the regular crimped 
ones set in the oven to get hot just before 
dishing up. Slip the quails into them after 
draining. 

Quails a la Jubilee, — Bone as many birds 
as required. Lard them with pork and thin 
strips of truffles. Stuff them in shape Avith 
equal parts of sweetbreads and oysters, sew 
them up ; roll them in buttered paper, and 
cook in the oven in enough Chablis to cover 
them. Pound some boiled potatoes and wa- 
ter-cresses together until thoroughly blend- 
ed ; put a tablespoonful of butter in a sauce- 
pan with one of milk ; put in the potato, stir 



142 CHOICE COOKERY. 

round till quite hot ; use this to make a bor- 
der on which to serve the quails. When they 
have cooked fifteen to twenty minutes, take 
them up, glaze them (melt glaze in a cup 
standing in hot water, and brush them over). 
Lay them on the potato border, and pour 
into the centre some Spanish sauce with 
mushrooms in Avhich has been boiled a slice 
of lemon. 



XYI. 

E^TKEES.— Continued. 

Pigeon Cutlets. — Take half a dozen young 
pigeons, split them down the back, and bone 
them, all but the leg, cutting off the wings 
at the second joint. Cut each bird in two 
down the breast ; trim off all ragged edges, 
so that each half -bird has as much as possi- 
ble the appearance of a cutlet, the leg serv- 
ing for the bone. Saute these cutlets, hav- 
ing seasoned them with pepper and salt, for 
three minutes in hot butter, then put them 
in the oven for five minutes. When done, 
press between two plates till cold. Then 
mask each cutlet with a thick puree of to- 
matoes and mushrooms in which aspic jelly 
has been mixed, equal parts of each. Let 
them be put on ice to stiffen the masking. 
Koll in fine cracker meal, then dip into well- 



144 CHOICE COOKERY. 

beaten egg, again into the meal, and then 
place them in a saute pan with very hot clar- 
ified butter, and cook them a fine golden 
brown. Dish up on a border of mashed po- 
tatoes browned with grated Parmesan ; serve 
mushrooms in the centre and Spanish sauce 
all round. 

Pigeons a la Tartare. — The pigeons should 
be trussed for broiling; flatten well with a 
rolling-pin without breaking the skin, season 
them with pepper and salt, dip into clarified 
butter and cover with very fine crumbs or 
cracker meal. Broil them carefully, turning 
often. Make a sauce of a scant tablespoon- 
ful of finely chopped parsley, a shallot, two 
spoonfuls of pickled gherkins, and a boned 
anchovy. Mince all finely and separately. 
Squeeze over them the juice of a lemon ; add 
half a tablespoonful of water and six of oil, 
and a little pepper. Mix all very well, and 
just before serving rub in a teaspoonful of 
dry mustard. Put the sauce into the dish, 
lay the pigeons over, and serve. 



ENTREES. 145 

Compote of Pigeons. — For any dish of 
pigeons except roast or broiled, Avild birds 
may be used in place of tame. Their flavor 
is far finer, and if not perfectly young, which 
is the main objection to the use of wild birds, 
the preparation remedies the defect. Cut 
four ounces of lean unsmoked bacon into 
pieces, and fry five minutes. Split the pig- 
eons in half, skewer each half as neatly as 
possible with tiny skewers, so that they will 
not sprawl when dished; flour and season 
them lightly, and fry a nice brown on both 
sides ; add one small carrot, one small turnip, 
two sticks of celery, one shallot, six mush- 
rooms — all cut small; add a hoiiquet garni 
and three gills of rich stock; let them all 
simmer very slowly in a stewpan for one 
hour, or longer if the birds are not young. 
Simmer together a tablespoonful of flour 
and one of butter ; pepper and salt (quan- 
tities depend on whether the stock be sea- 
soned) ; stir constantly, and when they begin 
to change color pour a gill of brown stock 
. 10 



146 CHOICE COOKERY. 

to it, stirring well; remove from the fire. 
Take up the pigeons, strain the gravy, then 
stir in the brown thickening you have made ; 
boil up, skim off all fat, then return the 
birds; let them get thoroughly hot, but not 
boil. Serve on a border of mashed potatoes, 
pour the gravy round and over them, and 
fill the centre with peas or spinach. 

Souffle of Partridges. — Clean and cook two 
partridges ; remove the breasts and best of 
the other flesh without skin or sinew. Take 
two ounces of rice cooked till very tender, 
pound them together in a mortar with one 
ounce of butter and a gill and a half of glaze 
melted, a teaspoonful of salt, and a sixth of 
pepper. Pound until the whole can be forced 
through a strainer, then add the beaten yolks 
of four eggs, and last of all the whites of 
two beaten till they will not slip from the 
dish ; stir them very lightly into the mixture. 
Pour it into a silver souffle case, or into a 
number of the small china cases. Bake till 
it rises, and then serve immediately with a 



ENTREES. 147 

tureen of rich brown sauce. This souffle can 
be made of any kind of cold bird or fish. 
The four eggs are given for medium-sized 
partridges. 

Salmis of Snijpe. — Clean and roast lightly 
six snipe, saving the trail. When done let 
them get cold, then cut them up and remove 
the skin, and lay them in a buttered stew- 
pan ; pound the trimmings and bones in a 
mortar, and put them into a stewpan with 
two shallots, a clove, a bouquet of herbs, and 
half a pint of claret ; let this simmer until 
reduced to one half. Then add three quar- 
ters of a pint of Spanish sauce. Let these 
very gently simmer for half an hour, skim- 
ming frequently ; strain through a fine sieve, 
and return to the stewpan. If it is not thick 
enough to coat the spoon, reduce a little 
more. Pour this sauce over the snipe in the 
saute pan, and let it get hot without boiling ; 
pile the pieces in a pyramid ; meanwhile 
chop the trail, mix with half the quantity of 
fdte defoie gras and a little salt and pepper ; 



148 CHOICE COOKERY. 

spread this on croutons, bake, and use them 
to garnish the snipe. 

Fillets of Teal with Anchovies. — Remove 
the breasts from a j)air of teal after they 
have been three parts roasted. Take care 
to preserve each half breast in good shape. 
Lay these fillets seasoned in a china fire- 
proof dish which has been well buttered and 
strewed with grated Parmesan; split two 
anchovies, remove the bone. Wash and dry 
the four halves, lay one on each fillet of teal, 
moisten with a gill of fish stock, sprinkle 
with bread crumbs and grated Parmesan 
cheese, lay small pieces of butter over, and 
bake in the oven fifteen minutes. The last 
thing before serving squeeze the juice of a 
lemon over all. 

Rabbits are so little cared for in this coun- 
try that it may seem useless to give recipes 
for using them. There are probably two rea- 
sons for the low estimate in which rabbit is 
held here. One, that as they are offered in 
market they are skinny, miserable animals. 



ENTREES. 149 

Yet there are parts of the country where 
they attain a good size, and a fine plump 
rabbit may compare favorably with fowl for 
many purposes. Indeed, English epicures 
use it in preference for mulligatawny. The 
second reason, and probably the one that is 
the real reason, for the difference in taste is 
because, being so lightly esteemed, no care is 
ever given to the preparation of the;ii. 

On the chance that some reader may feel 
inclined to test the possibilities of the native 
rabbit, and its claims to a place in choice 
cookery, I give two or three recipes, each 
admirable in its way. Rabbits should be 
used quite fresh, and cleaned and wiped dry 
as soon after they are killed as possible. 

Grenadines of EaMit a la Soubise. — Take 
the whole backs of two rabbits from the 
shoulders to the thighs, both of which you 
reject ; cut away the ribs and the thin part 
that forms the stomach, leaving only the 
backbone with solid flesh each side ; divide 
this into . sections, about two joints to each. 



150 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Lard them, and then braise for one hour. 
Stand them in a circle, and pour over and 
round them a pint of brown Soubise sauce. 

Fillets of Hahhit with Cucumher. — Half 
roast a rabbit, then remove the solid flesh 
from each side the backbone in long filletG. 
Cut two cucumbers and one Bermuda onion 
in thin slices, salt them, and let them drain. 
Lard the fillets of rabbit, season them, and 
lay them in a stewpan, with a pint of white 
sauce slightly thinned with white stock, the 
cucumber, and the onion. Let them simmer 
for half an hour. Lay the fillets in a circle, 
and put the cucumber and onion in the centre, 
the sauce, which should be thick enough to 
mask them, over the fillets. Fried sippets 
garnish this dish. 

A Civet. — For this dish the dark-fleshed 
rabbit, or hare, as it is often called, is best. 
Cut it into meat joints ; cut half a pound of 
unsmoked bacon into slices, and fry in a 
saucepan ; then lay in the hare, and saute 
for fifteen minutes. Pour off the fat. Add 



ENTREES. 151 

half a pint of port-wine, a bouquet garni, and 
a dozen mushrooms, and a Kttle pepper and 
salt ; let this simmer gently one hour ; then 
add a pint of brown sauce and twenty but- 
ton onions which have been blanched. Sim- 
mer for another half-hour. Remove the bou- 
quet, add a gill of stewed and strained toma- 
to, half a gill of glaze, and a tablespoonf ul of 
Chutney. Serve in a pyramid, pour the 
gravy, after it is ^^ell skimmed, over the 
whole, and garnish with fried croutons. 

Thnbales d^Epmard. — Make some quenelle 
meat of chicken or veal according to direc- 
tions already given, and mix with puree of 
spinach, prepared as follows, until it is a nice 
green ; pick and wash some spinach, put it 
into salted boiling water, and boil fast for 
fifteen minutes. Drain and press it, then 
beat it through a wire sieve ; return to the 
saucepan with two ounces of butter ; pepper 
and salt ; stir till well mixed. Stir a gill of 
cream to the quenelle meat, then use enough 
of the spinach to give it a fine light-green 



153 CHOICE COOKERY. 

color. When well mixed, butter some dariole 
moulds ; nearly fill them. Then dip your fin- 
ger in cold water and press a hole in the cen- 
tre of each to the bottom ; fill it with a puree 
of ham, and then put a coating of quenelle 
meat over, and steam twenty minutes. 

Puree of ham is prepared as follows : 
pound lean boiled ham in a mortar with 
some stock that has been boiled down to 
half glaze ; rub through a wire sieve. If too 
stiiff, moisten with a little more melted glaze. 



XYII. 

COLD ENTRIES, OR CHAUDFROIDS. 

These elegant dishes are suitable for for- 
mal breakfasts, luncheons, and suppers, and 
while presenting an unusually attractive ap- 
pearance, are easier to manage than less 
elaborate dishes, because they can usually be 
prepared, all but garnishing, the day before. 

Although in giving the recipes meat cooked 
for the purpose will always be directed, and 
for formal purposes no care or expense should 
be spared, the intelligent reader will see 
where she may make a very pretty dish by 
utilizing cold fowl, game, or lamb for any 
simple occasion. 

Sweetbreads au Montpellier. — Parboil a pair 
of fine white sweetbreads, after soaking them 
in salt and water an hour. Let them get cold 
between two plates under slight pressure. 



154 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Cut them into the form of cutlets (cutlet cut- 
ters are to be obtained at the fashionable 
'New York hardware stores, and at the large 
French tin-shops downtown). Have some 
firm aspic jelly not quite set ; dip each cutlet 
in it ; chop some aspic that is hard and cold 
roughly ; form a circle of it ; arrange the cut- 
lets on this ; fill the centre with asparagus 
heads ; pour mayonnaise round, and garnish 
with fancy shapes of aspic, red and white 
alternately. Red aspic is colored with pulp 
of the red beet stirred into it w^hile liquid 
and then strained out ; green is produced by 
spinach. The various shades of amber, shad- 
ing into rich brown, that are so eifective 
when tastefully mingled, are due to caramel 
coloring. When colored a^ic is required for 
garnishing, pour off a little into separate ves- 
sels, and color each as required. 

Chicken Salad d la Prince. — Cut the white 
meat of cold fowl into neat fillets, using a 
very sharp knife, so that there may be no 
ragged edges. Mask each piece with a mixt- 



COLD ENTREES, OK CHAUDFEOIDS. 155 

ure made as follows : One tablespoonful of 
finely minced capers, two of minced boiled 
ham, three hard-boiled eggs, an anchovy 
boned and washed, and two sardines freed 
from skin. All these must be well pounded, 
then rubbed through a sieve ; add a teaspoon- 
ful of finely minced tarragon and chives. 
Stir all into a tablespoonful of mayonnaise 
and one of aspic, semi-fluid of course. When 
each fillet has been well coated with the 
mixture and has set, line a border mould 
with aspic jelly, ornament the fillets of chick- 
en with little strips of beet-root and cucum- 
ber arranged like a trellis- work. Place them 
very carefully round the mould on the layer 
of aspic, then pour in a little more aspic, 
until the border mould is full, and set it on 
ice. When about to serve have a dish well 
layered with the small leaves of lettuce. 
Drop the mould for one minute in warm 
water, and turn out on to the lettuce. Fill 
the centre with a salad composed of cucum- 
ber cut into dice, peas, string-beans cooked 



156 CHOICE COOKERY. 

until tender (for this purpose the canned 
French string-beans serve admirably, being 
beautifully cut ready). Pour over the centre 
salad some thick mayonnaise. 

Where mayonnaise makes too rich a dish 
for the digestion, bechamel sauce may be sub- 
stituted for masking, but never for salad; 
for instance, two very simple chaudfroids 
of chicken may be made as follows : 

Chaudfroid of Chicken, IS'o. 1. — Cut up a 
young fleshy chicken into neat joints, remove 
the skin, mask each piece carefully with be- 
chamel sauce ; when quite set arrange on 
chopped aspic in a circle, garnish with strips 
of cucumber and beet ; cut the remainder of 
the cucumber and beet into neat pieces, and 
stir into a gill of mayonnaise, and use for the 
centre. This and all salads should be lightly 
seasoned before the mayonnaise is added, or 
they are apt to taste flat. 

Chaudfroid of Chicken, !No. 2. — Prepare 
the chicken as in last recipe, only before 
masking the joints season the bechamel well 



COLD ENTKEES, OR CHAUDFEOIDS. 157 

with finely chopped tarragon ; leave out the 
mayonnaise and aspic. Pile up the pieces of 
chicken on the entree dish, and garnish with 
Roman lettuce, or, if that is not to be had, 
the hearts of Boston lettuce. 

Chicken and Ham Cutlets. — Boil a young 
fowl with a good breast in clear stock ; take 
it out, let it get cold; cut the breast into 
rather thin slices. The bones, skin, and trim- 
mings may be thrown back in the stock, 
which can be boiled down to make both the 
bechamel and aspic for the dish (see recipes), 
or be kept for other purposes. Take the 
slices of chicken and some very well cooked 
lean ham that is cut so thin you can see 
the knife under the slices. Melt a little be- 
chamel sauce, that must be like blanc-mange, 
pour it on a plate, and before it has time to 
cool cover the plate with the slices of chicken. 
Dip the ham into the stock (if it has been 
boiled down to jelly, otherwise into melted 
aspic), lay the ham over the chicken, then 
more thin slices of chicken. Now cover the 



158 ^CHOICE COOKERY. 

whole by means of a spoon with more be- 
chamel ; when all this sets, which, as your 
sauce has only been half melted, it will do 
quickly, you have a large white cake about 
half an inch thick. Cut this cake into small 
pieces (unless you have a cutlet cutter), as 
like a cutlet in form as possible, using a sharp 
penknife or boning - knife. Take up each 
carefully, and with the end of a silver knife 
or small spoon cover the edges with the be- 
chamel sauce, which must be nearly set for 
this purpose. 

To garnish the cutlets, cut some tiny green 
leaves from pickled gherkins, and red ones 
from the skin of a red pepper-pod, and place 
two of each in the centre of each cutlet, star- 
shaped ; a touch of white sauce will make 
them stick; place a speck of parsley not 
larger than a pin's head in the centre. Stick 
a tiny lobster claw three quarters of an inch 
long at the narrow end of the cutlet, and 
place them in a silver dish round some aspic 
of a bright amber color, chopped. Put a 



COLD ENTKEES, OR CHAUDFROIDS. 159 

very small sprig of parsley between each 
cutlet. 

I may here remind the reader that when 
aspic or bechamel is used for masking or for 
pouring into a mould as lining, etc., it must 
not he made hot, only softened in a bowl set 
in warm water, just enough to be free from 
lumps. It must, of course, be stirred from 
the moment it begins to soften. The mould 
to be lined should be turned about till it is 
well coated, and if there is a disposition to 
run off the sides, roll it round in ice. For 
instance, when the first layer of bechamel is 
poured on the plate as directed in last recipe, 
it must be moved about until quite covered, 
yet very thinly. If it sets too soon, hold the 
bottom of the plate over steam. 

Reed-Mr ds in Aspic. — Take the back and 
breast bone from a dozen birds, splitting 
them down the back first. Save the feet. 
Make a force-meat of pate de foie gras and 
panada in equal proportions ; season highly, 
spread the inside of the birds, sew them up 



160 CHOICE COOKEEY. 

as nearly in shape as possible ; bake seven 
to ten minutes, then dip them into glaze ; 
put a little pale aspic in a dozen dariole 
moulds, enough to cover the bottom a quar- 
ter of an inch, and when just set j)ut in a 
bird breast down ; set on ice a few minutes, 
then pour in aspic to cover the bird a quarter 
of an inch. Put on ice. Turn out, and on 
the top of each strew pistachio nuts chopped 
very fine. Insert the two feet of the bird, 
scalded and dried, to stand up from the 
centre. 

Chaudfroid of I^eed-hirds.—Trepsire as in 
last recipe with pate de foie gras force-meat. 
Butter a dozen dariole moulds. Put a bird 
in each, breast downward ; put the dariole 
moulds in a pan with a little water, and set 
it in the oven for fifteen minutes ; w^hen cold, 
turn out che birds, w^ipe them, dip each in 
brown chaudfroid sauce, and put them on a 
dish to cool. When cold, lay them in rows 
against a pile of chopped aspic. 

Brown Chaudfroid Sauce is made by put- 



COLD ENTREES, OE CHAUDFKOIDS. 161 

ting a pint of Spanish sauce, a gill of cream, 
half a pint of aspic jelly together, and boil- 
ing them until they are reduced one quarter. 
Skim constantly, and strain for use. 

White Chaitdfroid Sauce is simply becha- 
mel and aspic treated in the same way. It 
differs, of course, from plain bechamel in hav- 
ing the piquant flavor of the aspic ; in ap- 
pearance there is little difference. 
11 



XYIII. 

COLD ENTEEES. 

Iced Savory Souffle. — This dish can be 
made of fish, game, or chicken, but is con- 
sidered best made of crab. Cut up the crab, 
or whatever it may be, into small pieces ; let 
it soak in mayonnaise sauce for two or three 
hours. Have some well-flavored aspic jelly, 
half liquid ; whip it till it is very frothy ; 
put some of this at the bottom of the dish it 
is to be served in — a silver one is most effect- 
ive ; then place a layer of crab well seasoned, 
and fill it up with aspic and crab alternately 
until the dish is nearly full ; place a band of 
stiff paper round, and fill in with whipped 
aspic ; set it on ice for two hours ; take off 
the paper, and serve. 

Sm)ories. — Within the last few years, which 
may, perhaps, be called the renaissance of 



COLD ENTKEES. 163 

cooking in England, since Kettner, in his 
" Book of the Table," shows that in the Mid- 
dle Ages that country was famous for its cui- 
sine, while France was still benighted — with- 
in the last few years, then, there has grown 
up a fashion of introducing preparations 
called savories. They vary very much, from 
the tiny little houchette of something very 
piquant, to be taken between courses as an 
appetizer — which, I believe, was the original 
idea — to quite important dishes suitable as 
entrees for formal breakfasts or suppers. 
But it is with the original ^'savory" as a 
piquant mouthful that they will take their 
place in this book. So important a part 
have they come to play in Enghsh menus 
(I am not now speaking of simple dinners) 
that the invention of a new "savory" is 
something to be proud of, and it is said that 
the very best are invented by the hons vivants 
themselves, seldom by the chef. One lady 
has written a book of w^hich savories is the 
only branch of cooking treated, and she says 



164 CHOICE COOKERY. 

in her preface, " Savories being at present so 
fashionable, and novelties in them so eagerly 
inquired for, I have been induced to publish 
a small book on the subject." 

In looking over any list of small savories 
we find many of our old friends in it, such 
as cheese canapes, angels on horsehach, anchovy 
toast, etc. With these familiar dainties we 
will have nothing to do, only the mention 
of them will serve to show that any little 
piquant morsel may be used as an appetizer 
served as hor^s cTceuvres. 

The Savage Club Canajpes. — These must be 
made small enough not to require dividing — 
in other words, can be eaten at one mouth- 
ful. Cut slices of stale Vienna bread a quar- 
ter of an inch thick, stamp out from them 
with a very small cutter circles about the 
size of a fifty-cent piece. Saute these in a 
little hot butter till they are a very pale 
brown. Lay them on paper when done, to 
absorb grease. Stone as many small olives 
as you have guests ; fillet half as many small 



COLD ENTKEES. 165 

anchovies — that is to say, split them, and re- 
move the bones and scales ; wash them, dry 
them, and roll each one up as small as possi- 
ble, and insert" it in an olive in place of the 
stone. Now trim one end of the olive so that 
it will stand ; then put a drop of thick may- 
onnaise on the centre of one of the rounds of 
fried bread, which, of course, must be quite 
cold ; stand the stuffed olive on it neatly, and 
put one drop of mayonnaise on the top, to 
cover the opening in the olive. A variation, 
and I think an improvement, on this bouchee, 
is to use a little softened aspic to attach the 
olive, and a small quantity finely chopped to 
crown it. Still another plan is to put a tiny 
disk of bright-red beet on the top, using as- 
pic to cement it there. 

Canapes a la Bis7narch. — Cut circles with 
a small cutter from slices of stale bread a 
quarter of an inch thick ; saute in butter till 
they are a light brown; spread over each 
when cold a thin layer of anchovy butter ; 
curl round on each an anchovy well washed, 



166 CHOICE COOKERY. 

boned, and trimmed; sprinkle Tory finely 
shred olives over them. Anchovy butter is 
two parts butter and one of anchovy paste. 

Caviary Canapes. — Cut some slices of bread 
a quarter of an inch thick ; cut disks from 
them Avith a small round cutter; fry them 
pale brown in butter. When about to use 
them chop a large handful of w^ater-cress 
leaves very fine, taking care to press them in a 
cloth to remove all water before you begin to 
chop ; when they are almost as fine as pulp, 
mix with them an equal amount of butter; 
when well blended, spread each canape with 
it, and spread a layer of caviare on the top. 

Prawns en Surprise. — Cut some small 
rounds of bread and butter, not more than 
two inches in diameter and a quarter inch 
thick. Peel some prawns; steep them in 
mayonnaise sauce a few minutes ; place three 
on eacli round of bread-and-butter, with a 
small piece of water-cress on each. Place 
over all some whipped aspic jelly; strew 
lobster coral over them. 



COLD ENTREES. 167 

Prince of Wales Canapes. — Take some fine 
prawns, three anchovies, two gherkins, and 
two truffles. Bone the anchovies and wash 
them, peel the prawns, and tlien cut all the 
ingredients into very small dice. Make a 
sauce as follows : Bruise a hard-boiled yolk 
of egg in a mortar with a tablespoonf ul of 
salad oil, a saltspoonful of mustard ; mix 
with this an anchovy and a teaspoonful of 
tarragon that has been scalded and chopped ; 
pound all well together, and pass through a 
sieve with a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar 
and a speck of cayenne ; mix enough of this 
with the prawns, etc., to season the mixture. 
Salt, it will be observed, is not mentioned, 
because the anchovies and prawns may be 
salt, but this can only be known to the cook 
by tasting. Butter some small water bis- 
cuits (crackers), put a small teaspoonful of 
tlie mixture on each, and cover with finely 
cliopped aspic. Garnish by putting a spot 
of green gherkin on one, a spot of red beet 
on another, and on a third one of truffle^ and 
so on alternately. 



168 CHOICE COOKEKY. 

Skrimp Canapes. — Fry some rounds of 
bread as directed for other canapes. Make 
some shrimp butter by pounding equal quan- 
tities of shrimps, from which heads, tails, and 
shells have been removed, and fresh butter 
till they form a smooth mass; spread the 
fried bread with it. Place whole shrimps 
on the top in the shape of a rosette, in the 
centre of which put a tiny pinch of chopped 
parsley. 

Cheese Biscuits a la St. James. — Take three 
tablespoonf uls of the finest flour, half a pound 
of cream curds, and five ounces of Brie cheese, 
which has been carefully scraped, and a pinch 
of salt ; pound all in a mortar ; add fiXQ ounces 
of softened butter and three eggs, to make a 
very stiff paste, which must be rolled very 
thin, and cut into round biscuits. Bake in 
a very quick oven, and serve hot. 

Klushis of Cream Cheese. — Take half a 
pound of fresh butter, six eggs, six table- 
spoonfuls of cream cheese, a pinch of pow- 
dered sugar, salt, and sufficient grated bread 



COLD ENTEEES. 169 

crumbs to make a paste, adding cream if it 
crumbles ; mix well together, and roll into 
small balls ; poach them in boiling water un- 
til firm (no longer). Serve hot, with a spoon- 
ful of poivrade sauce on each. 

Cold Cheese Souffles. — Grate one and a half 
ounces of Gruyere cheese ; the same of Par- 
mesan. Whip half a pint of cream and a 
gill of aspic jelly to a high froth ; stir in the 
cheese ; season with salt, cayenne, and made 
mustard to taste. Fill little paper baskets 
or very small ramequin cases, grate cheese 
over the top, and set on ice to get firm. 

The above mixture may be frozen just as 
you would ice-cream, but very firm, then cut 
out in little cubes, and serve on canapes of 
fried bread ; it is then called " Crotites de 
Fromage Glace." 

Oysters a la St. George. — Take the beards 
from two dozen oysters ; put the melt (or 
soft roe) of two Yarmouth bloaters into a 
saute pan with two ounces of butter; dry 
and flour the oysters, and saute them with 



170 CHOICE COOKEKY. 

the melt. Have some squares of bread fried 
a nice light brown ; place a nice piece of the 
melt on each square, and an oyster on top ; 
squeeze a iew drops of lemon juice on each, 
and serve xerj hot. 

Antoinettes. — For these fantastic little tri- 
fles you require anchovies preserved in oil — 
not in salt ; they are found at all Italian gro- 
ceries and at the larger American grocers'. 
Wipe them free from scales and oil ; cut each 
into long, thin strips. Have ready some plain 
pastry rolled very thin ; envelop each strip 
of anchovy in pastry ; pinch closely, so that 
it will not burst open, and fry in very hot 
fat for a half-minute, or saute them in but- 
ter till crisp and yellow. Serve log-house 
fashion, using two allumettes for each cross- 
ing instead of one ; jDut fried parsley in the 
corners, and serve very hot. 

£Jggs -a la St. James. — Take as many eggs 
as you have guests, and boil them hard in 
buttered dariole moulds; the moulds must 
be large enough to hold the e^g when .broken 



COLD ENTEEES. 171 

into it, but not much larger. When quite 
cold remove the eggs ; slice off the white at 
one end of each, taking care to preserve the 
shape. Scoop out the yolk ; mix this with a 
teaspoonful of chopped truffles, a little pep- 
per and salt, and put it back very neatly into 
the whites. Coat the eggs with aspic jelly 
several times. Serve them upside down, that 
is, the uncut part upward. Put a spoonful 
of half-mayonnaise (mayonnaise mixed Avith 
whipped cream) on each, and a few specks of 
chopped truffle. 

A variety of this dish has anchovy paste 
in very small quantity in place of truffle, and 
the mayonnaise just made pink with it. 



XIX. 

GALANTINES, BALLOTINES, ETC. 

Galantines are so useful and handsome a 
dish in a large family, or one where many 
visitors are received, that it is Avell worth 
while to learn the art of boning birds in or- 
der to achieve them. Nor, if the amateur 
cook is satisfied with the unambitious mode 
of boning hereafter to be described, need the 
achievement be very difficult. 

Experts bone a bird whole without break- 
ing the skin, but to accomplish it much prac- 
tice is required ; and even where it is desir- 
able to preserve the shape of the bird, as 
when it is to be braised, or roasted and glazed 
for serving cold, it'.can be managed with care 
if boned the easier way. However, if nice 
white milk-fed veal can be obtained, a very 
excellent galantine may be made from it, and 



GALANTINES, BALLOTINES, ETC. 173 

to my mind to be preferred to fowl, because, 
as a matter of fact, when boned there is such 
a thin sheet of meat that it but serves as a 
covering for the forccimeat (very often sau- 
sage-meat), and although it makes a savory 
and handsome dish, it really is only glorified 
sausage-meat, much easier to produce in some 
other w^ay. This is, of course, not the case 
with turkey ; but a boned turkey is so large 
a dish that a private family might find it 
too much except for special occasions. On 
the other hand, galantines of game, although 
the birds may be still smaller, are so full of 
flavor that it overwhelms that of the dressing. 
The following process of boning, however, 
applies to all birds. To accomplish the work 
with ease and success, a French boning-knife 
is desirable, but in the absence of one a sharp- 
pointed case-knife may do. Place the bird 
before you, breast down, with the head tow- 
ards you. Cut a straight line down the back 
through skin and flesh to the bone. Release 
with the left thumb and forefinger the skin 



174 CHOICE COOKEBY. 

and flesh on the left side nearest to you, and 
with the right hand keep cutting away the 
flesh from the bone, puUing it away clear as 
it is cut with the left hand. When you reach 
the wing joint cut it clean away, leaving the 
bone in the wing, and continue cutting with 
the knife close to the bone until all the meat 
from the left breast is released. Eeturn to 
the back and continue to separate the meat 
from the bone, always keeping the edge of 
the knife pressed close to the latter, until the 
leg is reached ; twist it round, which will en- 
able you to get the skin over it, and cut the 
joint from the body bone. Proceed with the 
right side in the same way, using your left 
hand for cutting and your right to free the 
meat (to some this would be very awkward, 
and when it is so turn the bird round). The 
bird will now be clear of the carcass. Lay 
the bird flat on the board, inside upward, 
then cut out the wing-bone and proceed to 
the legs ; cut the meat on the inside of each 
thigh down to the bone and clear the meat 



GALANTINES, BALLOTINES, ETC. 175 

from it, cutting it each side until you can lift 
the bone out ; then free the drumstick in the 
same way. 

If it be intended to stuff the bird in form, 
it would be necessary to bone the leg and 
wings from the inside, but for a galantine it 
is useless trouble, as they are to be drawn in- 
side the bird. Spread out the bird, having 
drawn legs and wings inside, season with a 
teaspoonf ul of salt and half a saltspoonf ul of 
white pepper mixed together, and rubbed 
over the flesh, which must have been made 
as even as possible by cutting the thick parts 
and spreading them over the thin ones. If 
there are any bits of meat clinging to the 
bones they must be carefully gathered to- 
gether and chopped with a pound of veal and 
two ounces of lean cold boiled ham, with four 
ounces of fat, sweet, salt pork. (Butter may 
be substituted if pork is objected to). When 
all is chopped as fine as sausage-meat, season 
rather highly ^yiih pepper and salt. Spread 
a layer an inch thick over the bird; then 



176 CHOICE COOKERY. 

add some long strips of tongue, some black 
truffles cut into dice half an inch square, and 
a few pistachio nuts. Dispose these, which 
may be called the ornamental adjuncts of 
the galantine, judiciously, so that when cut 
cold they will be well distributed. Cover 
carefully with another layer of force-meat, 
fold both sides over so that the force-meat 
will be well enclosed, form it into a bolster- 
shaped roll, tie it up in a linen cloth securely 
with string at eacli end, and sew the cloth 
evenly along the middle, so that the shape 
will keep even. Put it into a stewpan with 
stock enough to cover it, two onions, two 
carrots sliced, a stick of celery, a small bunch 
of parsley, a dozen peppercorns, an ounce 
of salt, and the bones of the bird, well 
cracked. Let it simmer gently for three 
hours and a half. Take it up, strain the 
liquor, and let the galantine get nearly cold. 
Take off the cloth ; wring it quite dry ; put 
it on again, rolling the galantine as tight as 
possible ; tie firmly, and place it on a platter ; 



GALANTINES, BALLOTINES, ETC. 177 

cover with another platter, and place a heavy 
weight upon it to press it into shape. Let 
the stock get cold. Take off the grease. 
Add a half-teaspoonful of sugar and the juice 
of a quarter of a lemon to the stock, and re- 
duce by rapid boiling to a half-glaze, that is 
to say, a jelly firm enough to cut into forms 
without being tough. Clear with white of 
egg in the usual way, and when quite trans- 
parent pour part into shallow dishes, leaving 
enough to cover the galantine. Color one 
dish a rich clear brown ; leave the rest light. 
When the jelly thickens, but is not quite set, 
cover the galantine with it half an inch 
thick. When the jelly is cold, cut it into 
what are called croiitons^ which may mean 
vandyked strips, to be laid across, triangles, 
squares, or any fancy shapes ; the pieces and 
trimmings are chopped to scatter over the 
dish or lay in small piles round. 

Ballotines are small galantines made by 
treating small birds as directed in last recipe, 
only that the force-meat should have a larger 
12 



178 CHOICE COOKERY. 

proportion of truffles, and be made of the 
same kind of bird ; for instance, grouse would 
have rich force-meat of grouse. One grouse, 
however, would make two or four ballotines ; 
quails make two, to be served as individuals. 
Galantine of Breast of Veal. — Bone a 
breast of young white veal very carefully, 
spread it out as flat as possible on the board, 
pare the meat at the ends for about an inch 
so that the skin may project beyond. Take 
all the scraps of meat that may have come 
from boning, provided they are not sinewy ; 
take also twelve ounces of veal cutlet, and 
half the quantity of fat unsmoked bacon. 
Chop very fine, seasoning all rather highly. 
When the meat is fine, season the inside of 
the veal. Mix with the force-meat tongue, 
truffles, and pistachio-nuts or olives, all cut 
into half-inch dice (the tongue larger). So 
mix these that they will come at regular in- 
tervals through the stuffing. Roll the breast 
round the stuffing, which is not spread, but 
laid in a mass, and sew the veal together. 



179 

Fasten it up in a cloth, tie securely at the 
ends, then tie bands of tape round at inter- 
vals to keep it in shape. 

Braise this galantine for six hours in stock, 
which may be made of a small knuckle of 
veal and the bones and trimmings. Vege- 
tables as directed for chicken galantine. 

Let the galantine be cold before it is un- 
tied. Garnish and glaze as directed for 
chicken. 

Galantine is occasionally made of sucking 
pig, and is very popular in France. The pig 
must be carefully boned, all but the head and 
feet. A sufficient quantity of veal, of fat un- 
smoked bacon, and of bread panada must be 
chopped and pounded to make enough force- 
meat to stuff the pig in the proportion of 
one part bacon, two panada, and three of 
veal, seasoned with a teaspoonful of onion 
juice and two of powdered sage. 

The pig's liver must have been boiled in 
stock, and cut in dice. There must be fillets 
or strips of rabbit or chicken, a few chopped 



180 CHOICE COOKERY. 

truffles and olives. Mix well. Lay in the 
fillets as you stuff the pig, and when full sew 
up the opening. Try to keep the shape as 
near as possible. Then braise slowly for 
four to five hours, as directed for galantine 
of veal. Do not remove the cloth till it is 
cold. 



XX. 

HOW TO " FILLET."— COLD GAME PIES. 

I HAVE spoken several times of '' filleting." 
To some readers an explanation of the term 
may be necessary. To " cut up " a bird 
does not indicate the meaning, nor does the 
term " to carve " it do so, because to carve 
means to cut up or divide with an exact ob- 
servance of joints and "cuts." Filleting, 
when applied to anything without bones, as 
the breast of a bird or boned fish, means to 
cut into very neat strips that are thicker 
than slices ; but when you are directed to 
" fillet " a grouse or a chicken, it is intended 
that you should cut it into small neat por- 
tions regardless of joints and without the 
least mangling of it ; therefore a very sharp 
knife must be used, and either a small sharp 
cleaver or a large cook's knife only to 



182 CHOICE COOKERY. 

be employed when a bone has to be cut 
through. 

To Fillet Cooked Birds : Grouse^ Pheasants^ 
or Poultry. — Cut the bird in half straight 
down the middle of the breast-bone, using a 
large sharp knife for the purpose. Lay each 
half on the table and take out the breast-bone 
from either side. If the bird is a large fowl, 
duck, or partridge, each breast Avill make 
three fillets, and leave a good piece with the 
wing, but average birds only make two breast 
fillets. Chop off the pinions within an inch 
of the meat, then cut the wing in two neatly ; 
drumsticks are to be chopped off close to the 
meat, and divided into two fillets (if a large 
chicken or duck ; leave game whole) ; cut the 
thigh in two also. Trim very neatly ; leave 
no hanging skin ; indeed, when filleting for 
chaudfroids the skin should be entirely re- 
moved, and both it and the leg-bones are re- 
moved for pies. When possible, it is better 
not to use the drumsticks. From a. chicken 
they make an admirable " devil," and from 



COLD GAME PIES. 183 

game they help the bones and trimmings to 
make a rich gravy ; so it is no waste to dis- 
card them. 

Cold pies are of two kinds : the one cooked 
in a terrine or dish without pastry ; the other 
in what the English call a " raised paste," 
and the French Sbpdte chaude. Those with 
paste — w^hich is seldom eaten — are far hand- 
somer, but do not keep so well — that is to 
say, they must be eaten within three or four 
days even in winter ; while in a terrine care- 
fully kept in a cool airy place the pie will be 
good at the end of three weeks. 

On the other hand, the pie in a terrine 
is much less trouble to make. Proceed as 
follows : 

Game Pie. — Make some force-meat thus : 
Fry a quarter of a pound of fat ham cut in 
dice with half a pound of lean veal. Take 
the ham up before it gets brown, as you do 
not need it crisp ; when the veal is cooked 
take that up also, and if there is enough of 
the ham fat in the pan, put in half a pound 



184 CHOICE COOKERY. 

of calf's liver cut up in dice, if not, saute it in 
butter. In sauteing all these they must be 
often stirred, as you want them well cooked 
and yet not very brown. When done they 
must be finely chopped, then pounded in a 
mortar, with a small teaspoonf ul of salt, and 
half a saltspoonful of pepper. Then add 
a dozen mushrooms chopped, and mix the 
whole. 

A game pie is usually made rather large, 
and the greater variety of game used, the 
better ; partridge, pheasant, grouse, hare, all 
help one another, but at least two kinds are 
necessary. It must be boned and neatly fil 
leted into small joints. Put on all the bones 
and trimmings to stew in three pints, of wa 
ter, with a good-sized carrot, onion, a stick 
of celery, a small bouquet, a clove, a tea- 
spoonful of sugar, one of salt, and a little 
pe23per; boil all this until the bones look 
white and dry when out of the stock. Strain, 
and reduce by rapid boiling to a half -glaze ; 
put a layer of the force-meat at the bottom 



COLD GAME PIES. 185 

of the dish, then one of boned game, with a 
sprinkhng of pepper and salt, and either a 
little finely chopped parsley or, what is far 
better, a few thin slices, of truffles ; pour over 
a little of the reduced stock ; fill the dish in 
this way to within an inch of the top ; make 
a plain flour-and-water paste, lay it on the 
pie, and make a hole in the centre, bake 
slowly in a pan of hot water. When cold, 
remove the paste, cover the top w^ith chopped 
aspic, fold a napkin, and serve the terrine on 
it, with a wreath of parsley round the base. 
Game pie is not a dish to be eaten at one or 
even two meals (unless very small), therefore 
the aspic must be fresh each time it is served. 
French Method of Making a Game Pie or 
Pate Chaude. — Make a paste of two pounds 
of flour and one of lard or butter, with salt 
to taste and about half a pint of Avater; 
knead it into a smooth, rather hard paste ; 
put it into a damp napkin for an hour. But- 
ter a raised pie dish — a tin one that opens to 
release the pie — line it with the paste rolled 



186 CHOICE COOKERY. 

half an inch thick, letting it come half an 
inch above the dish ; line the inside of the 
paste with buttered paper, bottom and sides, 
and fill with rice or corn meal; cover with 
another piece of buttered paper, wet the top 
of the pastry all round, and lay a cover of 
thin pastry over it ; trim very neatly, make 
a hole in the centre, and ornament with 
leaves cut from the paste and laid on ; the 
under side should be slightly moistened to 
make them adhere. Brush the surface with 
well-beaten egg, and bake about an hour, 
when it should be a nice golden brown. 
Take off the cover; after it has slightly 
cooled, remove the rice or meal and the but- 
tered paper ; take the case from the mould, 
and brush it all over with egg inside and 
out ; set it in the oven until the glazing dries, 
and any part that may not be sujBiciently 
brown becomes the color of the cover, which, 
being glazed at first, is not returned to the 
oven. 

Preparation for Filling the Case. — Fillet 



COLD GAME PIES. 187 

chickens, guinea-hens, partridges, or grouse 
(leave pigeons or quails whole, but bone 
them). Put suiScient pieces of one sort, or 
all sorts mixed, to fill the pate chaude case 
into a saute pan, with two ounces of butter, 
and saute till lightly colored. Take them 
out, and put them in a stewpan with a quart 
of reduced consomme, half a pint of mush- 
rooms sliced, a dozen truffles cut into dice 
(half -inch), a teaspoonf ul of salt, a little pep- 
per, and a wineglass of sherry, and let them 
simmer very gently, 7iot hoil, for half an hour, 
or until very tender. Let them cool, and 
when lukewarm arrange them in the pate 
case, leaving the centre hollow, which fill 
with mushrooms and truffles. The liquor in 
which they Avere stewed must be then poured 
over them. The cover of a pate chaude case 
is often not used, and aspic jelly covers the 
top of the pie. 

English Manner of Making Game Pie in 
a Crust. — Use at least two kinds of game, 
which for this purpose must not be long kept; 



188 CHOICE COOKEEY. 

high game is acceptable to epicures when 
roasted or stewed, but never in a pie. Dis- 
card all parts blackened by shot. Cut into 
neat joints, from which bones must be re- 
moved. Take all the fragments from the 
carcass after the breast and joints are re- 
moved, and the flesh of a small bird or hare, 
or, failing that, some calf's liver fried in dice ; 
pound whichever you may have for force- 
meat in a mortar with four ounces of bacon 
that has been boiled ; when the whole forms 
a paste (from which you have removed all 
strings, sinew, or gristle while pounding), 
season with pepper and salt — a teaspoonful 
of salt to a pound of force-meat, and a. scant 
half saltspoonful of pepper. Put on the 
bones, icithout vegetables, in cold water to 
simmer until it is a rich broth, which strain, 
and boil rapidly till a little set on ice in a 
saucer will jelly. Make what is called 
" raised " paste in the following Avay : To 
two pounds of flour use three quarters of a 
pound of butter and half a pint of scalding 



COLD GAME PIES. 189 

milk; pour this into a hole in the centre of 
the flour, and knead into a firm paste, adding 
a little more milk if necessary (but it seldom 
is). This paste is not to be rolled, but beaten 
out with the hand while warm to half an 
inch thickness. Line a well-buttered meat- 
pie mould, with a hinge opening at the side ; 
leave hajf an inch of paste above the mould ; 
trim off neatly with scissors. Then lay in 
the game and force-meat in alternate layers, 
seasoning the joints with pepper and salt as 
you lay them. A few slices of tongue and 
truffles to form one layer are desirable. 
When the mould is full, lay on the cover, 
moisten the under edge, and pinch round in 
tiny scallops. Make a hole in the centre, 
round which put an ornament; stick in a 
bone to prevent the hole closing, and bake 
two to four hours in a moderate oven, ac- 
cording to size, remembering alwaj^s that 
the crust will not be injured by long baking, 
and that the game in this pie is uncooked. 
"When it is removed from the oven, let it 



190 CHOICE COOKERY. 

stand half an hour, taking the mould off, 
that it may cool ; then brush the sides and 
top with an egg beaten with milk, and re- 
turn the pie to the oven that the sides may 
brown ; cover the top, if it is already highly 
colored, with a sheet of paper. Kemove the 
bone from the centre, insert a small funnel, 
and after removing all fat from it, pour in 
the gravy from the bones. The gravy must 
be poured very slowly or it will bubble up, 
and care must be taken to have all the pie 
will hold, yet not a drop too much, or it Avill 
ooze somewhere. These pies, when quite 
cold, may be sent any distance, and are much 
used in England and Scotland for hunting- 
parties, besides being a standard breakfast 
and luncheon dish. The crust is merely a 
frame to hold the game. 



XXI. 

GARNISHES. 

In all choice cookery the appearance of 
dishes has to be carefully studied. However 
good the taste may be, the effect will be 
spoiled if its appearance on the table does 
not come up to the expectation raised by the 
name on. the menu. For this reason the sub- 
ject of garnishes requires to be considered 
apart from the dishes they adorn. In the 
old time garnishes were few and simple, and 
when not simple, very ugly, as the camellias 
cut from turnips and stained with beet juice. 
N^owadays garnishes are many, and many so 
termed form part of the dish, as what are 
termed, " floating garnishes for soup," que- 
nelles, etc. Garnishes that are merely orna- 
mental need not be so expensively made as 
those intended for eating. Foremost among 



193 CHOICE COOKERY. 

fashionable floating garnishes for soup are 
the colored custards known as pate royale ; 
they are perfectly easy to make, yet very ef- 
fective served in clear bouillon. 

Colored Custard. — Prepare the custard 
with five yolks of eggs, a gill of cream or 
strong bouillon, and a pinch of salt ; butter 
small saucers or cups ; divide the custard in 
three — color one with spinach juice or pulp 
of green asparagus, another with red tomato 
pulp or the pulp of red carrot boiled, and a 
third with pulp of beets. A few drops of co- 
chineal may be added to intensify the color 
of the last, which is apt to be a beautiful 
pink instead of red. The custard for which 
pulps are used must be strained after they 
are added, expressing as much of the juice as 
possible. The custard should be flavored 
delicately with the vegetable used for color. 

Sjpinach Juice is very frequently directed 
to be used as coloring, but scarcely anywhere 
is any indication given that the juice without 
preparation is of very little use. It should 



GARNISHES. 193 

be prepared as follows : Take a large hand- 
ful of fresh green spinach, wash it, and re- 
move decayed leaves only ; drain well, then 
pound in a mortar or chopping-bowl until 
quite mashed. Let it stand a quarter of an 
hour, then squeeze the mass in a cloth, and 
put the green water into a cup, which set 
over the fire in a small saucepan of water; 
watch the scum rise ; w^hen it stands quite 
thick at the top and turns a vivid green, re- 
move at once (if it remains on the fire after 
this the green darkens); pour the contents 
of the cup through cheese-cloth or thin mus- 
lin laid in a strainer. The scum that re- 
mains is your coloring matter. It must be 
carefully scraped oif with a spoon, and mix 
with the custard only as much as is required 
to give a delicate green tint. If any is left 
it may be mixed with an equal quantity of 
salt and put away ; it loses color, however, 
after a few days. 

The colored custards must be set in water, 
a small piece of buttered paper over each, 
13 



194 CHOICE COOKERY. 

and the water allowed to boil gently round 
them till they are firm. Let them get quite 
cold ; then cut them into cubes or diamonds. 

Profiterolles. — Perhaps the next in jDopu- 
larity of these floating garnishes dive profite- 
rolles^ or " prophet's rolls," as cooks call them. 
They are made exactly like those intended 
for dessert, omitting sweetening of course, 
and a very small quantity is required, as they 
must be dropped no larger than a pea, and 
baked 2, pale fawn-color. 

Put a gill of water and a pinch of salt and 
two ounces of butter in a small Saucepan ; as 
soon as they begin to boil draw the sauce- 
pan back and stir in four ounces of flour; 
beat well over the fire with a wooden spoon 
until it becomes a soft paste, then add the 
yolks of two eggs and white of one, beating- 
each yolk in separately. It will be seen that 
the paste is similar to that made for cream 
cakes. 

A similar garnish is made in the following 
way : Beat an o^gg with a pinch of salt, and 



GARNISHES. 195 

then stir in as much dry sifted flour as the 
egg will moisten; work it well with the 
hands till it is elastic, although stiff. Roll it 
on a pastry board until it is as thin as paper, 
then roll it on a clean linen cloth still thin- 
ner, and leave it a quarter of an hour to dry. 
Then fold the paste, press it very tightly to- 
gether, and with a tin cylinder, not larger 
in diameter than a cent, cut out, with consid- 
erable pressure, as many small disks as you 
require to allow five or six to each plate of 
soup. Have ready in a small saucepan some 
smohing hot lard. Drop the disks in ; they 
will puff and swell till they are like marbles. 
Stir them, and take them out of the fat ; 
they require only a few seconds to brown, 
and must be taken out very pale. Add to 
the soup the last thing before serving. 

While aspic jelly is certainly the hand- 
somest of garnishes for cold dishes, it is gen- 
erally part of the food itself, and should not 
be so lavishly used that when helped there 
is more jelly than meat served. Where the 



196 CHOICE COOKERY. 

jelly is intended only for a garnish not to be 
eaten, simple gelatine is sufficient. For in- 
stance, a large platter containing a galan- 
tine or a chaiidfroid may have a handsome 
wreath glued on the border, of red and green 
leaves, or holly leaves and red berries, or any 
device that need not be disturbed by the 
carver. 

For such decorations as these gelatine is 
melted in proportion of three ounces to a 
scant quart of water, cleared Avith white of 
egg, and then colored pale yellow with car- 
amel or saffron, vivid red with cochineal, 
and bright green with spinach ; it saves time 
and trouble to let this congeal on dishes in 
thin sheets. Small cutters of ivy, oak, and 
other leaves can readily be purchased at the 
large house-furnishing stores. 

One word here about uneatable decorations, 
never admit them at a children's party ; they 
are the very part of the feast the little peo- 
ple will most crave ; red leaves for them must 
be of red currant-jelly, yellow of white, etc. 



GARNISHES. 197 

" Forced butter "is another form of gar- 
nish which adds much to the appearance of 
glazed ham or tongue. It is butter beaten 
to a white cream, then put in a forcer, and a 
pattern traced on the ham^ which must be 
followed just as in icing a cake. 

A Few Ways of Cooking YegetaUes. — It is 
not intended to go into the general cooking 
of vegetables, although it may be said that 
even the choicest cooking can offer no great- 
er luxury, or, alas ! a greater rarity, than a 
dish of early peas or asparagus perfectly 
cooked. But this is not the place to remedy 
the wholesale spoiling of summer vegetables 
that goes on in almost every kitchen. I will 
only give what may be a few new ways of 
preparing familiar vegetables. 

Stuffed Artichokes. — Wash the artichokes ; 
boil till nearly tender ; drain them ; remove 
the middle leaves and " chokes " (this is the 
fibrous part round the base) ; lay in each a 
little rich force-meat, and put them in the 
oven to cook until the meat is done. Serve 
with rich brown gravy. 



198 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Fried Artichokes. — Cut in slices length- 
wise ; remove the chokes, cut off the tops of 
the leaves, wash them in vinegar and water, 
drain them, and dip them in frying batter. 
Fry in very hot oil or lard. Serve with fried 
parsley sprinkled with salt. 

Beetroot Fritters. — Cut boiled beets in 
slices ; slice raw onions ; scald them ; dry 
them well; then lay one slice of onion, 
sprinkled Avith chopped chervil, pepper, and 
salt, between two slices of beet. Dip them 
carefully in frying batter, and plunge into 
boiling fat ; when pale brown take them up. 

Cauliflower Fritters. — Parboil the cauli- 
flower — that is to say, boil until it begins to 
be tender — about fifteen minutes ; then plunge 
it into ice-cold water; this keeps it white. 
Break it up into branches. Dip each one 
into thick bechamel sauce slightly warmed ; 
let them get cold ; then take each piece 
separately and dip it into carefully made fry- 
ing batter, and drop them into boiling lard ; 
fry a pale brown, and serve garnished with 
fried parsley. 



XXII. 

VARIOUS WAYS OF SERVING VEGETABLES. 

Stuffed Cucumbers. — Cut large-sized young 
cucumbers into slices about two inches thick, 
rejecting the ends. Peel, and remove the 
seeds ; scald the slices for ten minutes, plunge 
them into cold water, and drain them. Line 
a fire-proof china dish with very thin slices 
of unsmoked bacon which has been scalded ; 
make some veal force-meat such as directed 
for galantines ; fill the holes in the centre of 
the rings of cucumber till it is level with the 
surface on both sides ; Avrap each up in a slice 
of bacon broad enough to cover it. Tie round 
with a string, pour a pint of strong stock into 
the dish, and bake twenty minutes in a slow 
oven. When done, take up the cucumber, 
drain, and remove the bacon carefully so as 
not to disturb the stuffing. Lay in a dish, 
and serve w^ith Robert sauce. 



200 CHOICE COOKERY. 

In the following recipes the mushrooms to 
be used are the large flap ones. "When canned 
ones will serve, the fact will be stated. 

Mushrooms Stuffed d la Lucullus. — Wash, 
dry, and trim large mushrooms ; chop u]) the 
stalks and broken ones fine with a teaspoon- 
ful of minced parsley, pepper, salt, and a 
tomato ; make these hot in a tablespoonful 
of butter. Fill the mushrooms with the mixt- 
ure, place them on a buttered baking -dish, 
and bake six minutes, basting them once or 
twice with clarified butter. 

Mushrooms and Tomatoes. — Toast some 
slices of bread, cut them into rounds two 
inches in diameter, and butter them. Peel 
some firm tomatoes, cut them into thick slices, 
and lay them on the toast. On the top of 
each place a peeled mushroom. Put them on 
a dish that can go to table, pour a little clari- 
fied butter over them, put them in a hot oven 
for three minutes, and baste well. Serve hot 
and quickly. 

Mushroom Jelly. — Take two pounds of 



VAEIOUS WAYS OF SERVING VEGETABLES. 201 

mushrooms, put them in a stewpan over the 
fire with a gill of strong consomme. Squeeze 
in a few drops of lemon juice, add a little 
pepper and salt, unless the consomme was 
salt enough. Melt in a gill of water half an 
ounce of gelatine, and strain it. When the 
mushrooms are quite soft, pass them through 
a sieve, mixed with the gelatine, and pour 
the mixture into a mould which has been 
rinsed with water. When set, turn out and 
garnish with finely chopped aspic, and a few 
cherry tomatoes if in season. 

Mushroom Baskets. — Make some puff- 
paste ; roll it out very thin. Line some small 
suitably shaped moulds (darioles will do very 
nicely) ; fill the centre with uncooked rice or 
flour to keep the shape while baking; cut 
some strips of paste, twist them, and bend 
them into the shape of handles ; bake them 
very pale. When the pastry cases are done, 
empty out the rice, remove them from the 
moulds, and fill with the following mixture : 
chop as many canned mushrooms as you re- 



202 CHOICE COOKERY. 

quire with a small shallot, squeeze to them 
the juice and pulp of a large tomato, and put 
them in a stcAvpan with a tablespoonful of 
butter and a tablespoonful of very thick white 
sauce. Stir till about the consistency to eat 
with a fork. Squeeze a few drops of lemon 
juice over the top. Put the handles in so that 
they stand over the tops. Decorate with fried 
parsley. 

The large Spanish or Portuguese onion that 
has of late years appeared in the markets is 
not often properly cooked. It is the most 
delicate and delicious of all onions, lacking 
the usual intense heat and rank odor. For 
this reason persons who wish to eat onions, 
either for health or inclination, will find this 
large onion cut up with ordinary salad dress- 
ing a great improvement even on Bermudas. 
This onion is full of a milky juice, which is 
lost in cooking if it is cut. Therefore, where 
a simple dish is required, the best way is to 
boil it, without peeling or trimming, for three 
hours if it weighs three pounds (it must be 



VAEIOUS WAYS OF SERVING VEGETABLES. 203 

tender right through) ; then take it up, strip 
it, and remove the root, stalk, etc. Pour 
over it a rich white sauce, and serve, taking 
care that the gravy that runs from the onion 
is served w^ith it. A still better way when 
an oven is not wanted is to bake them. Put 
them in a dripping-pan in the oven without 
removing peel or stalk. Bake at least four 
hours in a moderate oven. It will burn and 
blacken outside, which is of no consequence. 
Keep it turned so that the darkening may 
not go deeper one side than the other. When 
quite tender (but do not try it until it begins 
to shrink, or you will let out the juices), so 
that a knitting-needle will run through it, 
take it out of the oven, strip off three or four 
skins, remove root and stalk, and place the 
onion, without breaking it, on a dish ; put a 
piece of butter as large as an egg, with a salt- 
spoonful of salt and a quarter one of pepper 
worked in it, on the onion ; cover it, and put 
in the oven till the butter melts, and serve 
very hot. 



204 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Stuffed Spanish Onion. — Parboil a Spanish 
onion ; then drop it into ice-Avater ; take out 
the centre and fill it with force-meat ; cover 
with a thin slice of sweet fat pork ; sprinkle 
with a teaspoonful of salt and the same of 
sugar ; add four tablespoonf uls of stock, cover 
closely, and cook over a good fire. When 
the onion is tender, take it up, remove the 
pork, strain and skim the gravy, pour it over, 
and serve. The best force-meat for the stuff- 
ing is made of cold chicken, a shred of boiled 
ham, a little chopped parsley, half a dozen 
mushrooms, all chopped well and mixed with 
a tablespoonf ul of butter and pepper and salt. 

Potatoes a la Provengale. — Mash and pass 
through a wire sieve two pounds of potatoes ; 
season with pepper and salt. Grate two 
ounces of Gruyere (Swiss) cheese, pound it 
with enough butter to make a paste, add a 
gill of milk and a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley ; put this in a saute pan, add the po- 
tato, mix all well, and stir until the mass is 
pale brown ; serve as a pyramid. 



VAEIOUS WAYS OF SERVING VEGETABLES. 205 

Milanese Potatoes. — Bake large potatoes 
till just tender; cut off the tops, which keep. 
Scoop out the potatoes, but do not break the 
skin. Mash the inside with butter, pepper, 
salt, and grated Parmesan ; about a teaspoon- 
ful of butter and cheese to each will be the 
right proportion. Beat the potato mixture 
with a fork for a minute to make it light, 
refill the skins, put on the covers, and heat 
them in the oven. 

Scalloped Potatoes. — Mash two pounds of 
potatoes with milk, and pass through a sieve ; 
add three ounces of butter melted, two 
ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and a lit- 
tle pepper and salt. Fill shells with this mixt- 
ure, and brown them in the oven. Glaze 
them over w^ith butter melted and grated 
Parmesan ; return one minute to the hottest 
part of the oven. Serve very hot. 

Tomato Jelly. — Two pounds of tomatoes, 
half a grain of red pepper, and two small 
shallots. Place them in a stewpan and 
boil till quite soft. Melt half an ounce of 



206 CHOICE COOKERY. 

gelatine in as little white stock as possible ; 
add this to the tomatoes, and strain ; if not 
perfectly clear, clarify with white of egg 
in the usual way. Mould, and serve with 
chopped aspic round it. A little grated 
Parmesan may be sometimes sprinkled over 
it for a change. 

Tomato Souffle. — Prepare some tomato 
pulp, taking care to boil it down if too liquid ; 
stir in the yolks of three eggs, then the whites 
well beaten ; salt to taste. Fill either a large 
souffle case or several small ones. Bake in a 
hot oven till it rises very high and is set in 
the centre ; serve instantly. 

/Spinach Fritters. — Boil the spinach till it 
is quite tender; drain, press, and mince it 
fine ; add half the quantity of grated stale 
bread, one grate of nutmeg, and a small tea- 
spoonful of sugar; add a gill of cream and 
as many eggs as will make a batter, beat- 
ing the whites separately; pepper and salt 
to taste. Drop a little from a spoon into 
boiling lard ; if it separates, add a little 



VARIOUS WAYS OF SERVING VEGETABLES. 207 

more crumb of bread; when they rise to 
the surface of the fat they are done. Drain 
them, and serve very quickly, or they will 
faU. 



XXIII. 

JELLIES. 

In this country culinary skill seems to run 
to sweet rather than to savory cooking ; very 
few housekeepers but make excellent pre- 
serves and cakes, yet the list of sweet dishes 
manufactured at home is very limited; as 
soon as anything not in this category is re- 
quired the caterer is applied to, and he has 
his list of water-ices, cream -ices, and me- 
ringues, with very little variation ; some- 
times, indeed, a new name appears on the 
list, but it turns out to be some old friend 
with a new garnish, or put in a different 
mould and given an alluring name. There 
are many delicious sweet dishes not difficult 
to make when once the processes of making 
jelly and of freezing are understood (and very 
many who do not pretend to be good cooks 



JELLIES. 209 

are expert at these two things), and others 
which do not require even that abihty. To 
put a sweet dish on the table, hoAvever, in 
perfection, especially if it be an iced one, re- 
quires the utmost care and skill ; the slight- 
est carelessness in packing a frozen pudding, 
any delay between removing it from the ice 
and getting it on the dish, will destroy that 
dull, marble-like appearance it ought to wear 
when first it maizes its entry, although it will 
gleam with melting sweetness long before it 
reaches the partakers. Happily there are 
many delightful sweets which are beautiful 
in appearance and less depending on atmos- 
phere than any of the family of ices. The 
simplest of these are fruit jellies. 

I spoke just now of the art of making jelly, 
and many readers may think in using such a 
term for so simple a thing I am exaggerating, 
and perhaps " art " is hardly the word, yet 
there is a daintiness and nicety in making 
jelly which almost deserves the term. 

However, before talking of how sweet dish- 
U 



210 CHOICE COOKERY. 

es are to be made it is necessary to provide 
the means by which they are to be redeemed 
from the commonplace of mere richness and 
sweetness. The flavorings and liqueurs keep 
indefinitely if well corked. Orange-flower 
w^ater, it is true, w^ll lose strength, but when 
a bottle is first opened, if it is poured off into 
small vials, and each one corked and sealed, 
it will keep its original strength. The fol- 
lowing list of articles kept in store will ena- 
ble a cook to give her cakes, creams, etc., 
just that " foreign " flavor that home prod- 
ucts so often lack: almonds, almond paste, 
candied cherries, candied angelica, candied 
orange, lemon, and citron peels, pistachio- 
nuts, orange-flower water, rose-water, pre- 
pared cochineal, maraschino, ratafia, lemons, 
extract of vanilla, and sherry. 

Several of these things are used principally 
for decoration ; for instance, the candied cher- 
ries and angelica and the pistachio-nuts. Con- 
sequently, unless the cherries and angelica 
are required for dessert (to which they are a 



JELLIES. 211 

showy and delicious addition), a quarter of a 
pound at a time is all that need be bought. 
Yery likely in small cities or country places 
these latter articles may not be obtainable. 
But they are sold at the large city caterers', 
also at the stores which deal in French crys- 
tallized fruits — not French candy stores — and 
can always be sent by mail. 

The vanilla should be of the finest quality, 
and had better be bought by the ounce or 
half-pint from the druggist than from the 
grocer. There are good extracts put up, no 
doubt, but very many of them are largely 
made of tonka-bean, the flavor familiar in 
cheap ice-cream, in place of the more expen- 
sive vanilla. 

In the recipes that will be given the direc- 
tions will be as minute as possible ; but to 
prescribe the number of drops required to 
flavor a quart of cream would be utterly im- 
possible, the strength of the flavoring used 
differing so greatly, even in lemons. Some- 
times the juice of half a lemon will be right 



212 CHOICE COOKERY. 

for a certain thing, at another the juice of a 
quarter of one would be too much. This is 
where judgment must be exercised. If you 
have a very juicy lemon, although your rec- 
ipe says the juice of half, you will remember 
that the average lemon would not yield near- 
ly so much, and that the author had the av- 
erage lemon in mind. This applies to all fla- 
voring. Sometimes extract of bitter almond 
is so strong that even a drop would be too 
much to impart the faint almond flavor which 
alone is tolerable. In this case the thing to 
do for fear of spoiling the dish is to pour a 
half-dozen drops in a teaspoonful of water, 
and use from that, drop by drop, until the 
faint flavor desired is attained. In using 
any flavoring, great care must be taken not 
to put too much, as anything in the least 
over-flavored is offensive. 

Mould of Apple Jelly. — Peel and cut up a 
pound of fine-flavored apples (to Aveigh a 
pound after preparation) ; put them in a stew- 
pan with three ounces of granulated sugar, 



JELLIES. 213 

half a pint of water, and the juice and grated 
rind of a lemon. When cooked to a pulp, 
pass through a strainer, and stir in one ounce 
of gelatine that has been dissolved in a gill 
of water. Color half the apple with about 
half a teaspoonful of cochineal, and fill a 
border mould with alternate layers of the 
colored and uncolored apple. When cold, 
turn out and serve with half a pint of cream 
whipped solid and piled in the centre. 

There is a great difference in the solidity 
of whipped cream. Sometimes it will be a 
mere froth that shows a disposition to lique- 
fy, and cannot be piled up. When this is 
the case there is always a great waste of 
cream, for at least half will have been left 
as a milky residue. The reason for this fail- 
ure of the cream to whip solid is generally 
because it is too fresh or too warm. 

If in proper condition, cream will whip as 
sohd as white of eggs, and leave not a tea- 
spoonful of liquid at the bottom of the bowl ; 
nor will there be the least danger of cream 



214 CHOICfE COOKERY. 

SO whipped going back to liquid. It will be- 
come sour, but not change its form ; and it 
will take but a few minutes to beat. 

Cream intended for whipping should be 
twenty-four hours old in warm weather, and 
thirty-six in winter. It sliould also be thor- 
oughly chilled, and if the day is very warm 
it would be better to set the bowl containing 
it on ice while whipping it. Put in the whip, 
or egg-beater, and do not lift the froth off as 
it rises ; it is quite unnecessary if the vessel 
you use for the cream is large enough. As 
you see it begin to thicken, which will be 
after steady beating for ^^^ or six minutes, 
keep on just as you would for white of eggs. 
When the beater is withdraAvn you should 
be able to cut the cream or pile it any height. 
If by reason of excessive heat it is slow in 
reaching the proper consistency, leave the 
beater in the bowl, and set the whole on the 
ice until very cold again. 

The consistency of jelly should be only 
just stiff enough to keep form. It should 



JELLIES. 215 

shake and tremble while being served in- 
stead of remaining solid. It requires some 
little practice to make sure of this every time, 
although exact proportions be given. A ta- 
blespoonf ul difference in the pint or gill meas- 
ure would, where the gelatine is only just 
enough, cause the jelly to " squat " — not an 
elegant term, but one that represents the 
form of a too soft jelly. 

A very exact recipe for plain claret jelly, 
and which in proportions serves for any other 
unless special mention is made of some vari- 
ation, is as follows : Three quarters of a pint 
of water, one pint of claret, a quarter of a 
pint of lemon juice (this makes one quart of 
liquid), the rind of one lemon, half an inch 
of cinnamon in the stick and two cloves, 
one tablespoonf ul of red currant jelly, two 
ounces of gelatine, the whites and shells of 
two eggs, a few drops of cochineal, and four 
ounces of sugar ; put all in a stewpan, the 
gelatine having been softened in a little of 
the water ; whisk over the fire until the whole 



216 CHOICE COOKERY. 

boils ; then draw it off, let it stand for five 
to ten minutes; strain through flannel or 
fine linen without pressure, add a few drops 
of cochineal to brighten the color, and mould 
for use. 

Use great care in selecting cinnamon, for 
very much that is sold is not the true spice, 
but a cheaper one (cassia) that resembles it. 
Cinnamon has a bright tan-color, is rolled 
many times, and is not much thicker than 
paper when a piece is unrolled. Cassia is 
thicker in the roll, a dull brown, and if a 
piece is broken is like a piece of wood. It 
is similar in flavor, but much coarser, and 
has little strength. 



XXIY. 

JELLIES. — Continued. 

If it is kept in mind that two ounces of 
gelatine to the quart of hquid is the right 
proportion, and that if even a tablespoonful 
of flavoring, fruit juice, or what not, is add- 
ed, exactly the same quantity of other liquid 
must be omitted, there will not be much 
danger of formless jelly. Many forget this 
when not working from an exact recipe, and 
remembering only that a quart of cream or 
water or wine requires two ounces of gela- 
tine to set it, they do not deduct for the 
glass of wine or juice of lemon, etc., they 
may add for flavoring. Although wine jelly 
is rather a simple form of sweet, suggestive 
of innocent country teas, a very little more 
time than the average housekeeper bestows 
upon it will convert it into a very elegant 



218 CHOICE COOKEKY. 

dish. In the season for fruits there is no 
more beautiful ornament for jelly than 
these, carefully gathered, with two or three 
leaves attached. 

Jelly with Fresh Fruits. — Select cherries of 
two or three colors if possible, in sprays of 
two or three, and on each a leaf or two ; 
wash them carefully by dipping them in and 
out of a bowl of water. Lay them between 
soft cloths to remove all moisture. Make a 
quart of punch jelly in the following way : 
Put together a pint of water, a quarter of a 
pint of the finest Santa Cruz or Jamaica rum, 
a quarter of a pint of sherry, a gill and a half 
of lemon juice, the rinds of two lemons, and 
the juice of one orange, or, if oranges are not 
to be obtained in cherry season, half a gill 
more of water, two ounces of gelatine, half 
an inch of cinnamon, the whites of two eggs 
well beaten and the shells crushed. Let this 
come to a boil over the fire, being well whisk- 
ed the while ; as soon as it boils draw it to a 
cool spot on the range, let it stand five min- 



JELLIES. 219 

utes, and strain through scalded flannel over 
a bowl ; let it drip, but do not use the least 
pressure. This jelly must be brilliantly clear. 
If there is any milky appearance it proves 
that the jelly did not really boil, and so the 
eggs had not completely coagulated ; in that 
event boil once more for an instant, and 
strain again through fresh flannel. Oil a 
mould that has no design of fruit or vege- 
table at the bottom, and set it in cracked ice ; 
pour in an inch or two of the jelly when 
nearly cold. Have the cherries ice cold, and 
arrange the sprays gracefully with due re- 
gard to color, remembering that the best ef- 
fect must be not upward towards you, but 
towards the bottom of the mould ; thus the 
underside of the leaves must be upward, etc. 
Do not put in more fruit than will display 
itself w^ell. The bunches are to be isolated, 
not allowed to touch each other, and for this 
reason it may not be possible to lay more 
than one cluster at the bottom, if the mould 
is small there. In this case dispose a bunch 



220 CHOICE COOKERY. 

of black cherries and leaves gracefully in the 
centre, pour in more jelly, half an inch or so, 
then nearer the sides arrange lighter-colored 
cherries, two or three clusters, no more. The 
fruit is only intended as an ornament. A 
jelly that is quite as pretty may be made by 
using clusters of red and white, or red, white, 
and black currants. The red and white ones 
should have two or three young leaves at- 
tached, and each cluster be perfect ; no black- 
currant leaves must be used, as they have a 
strong flavor. 

Jelly with Candied Fruits, — Make a quart 
of maraschino jelly, which is done by omit- 
ting the rum, lemon, and cinnamon from the 
last recipe, and using in place of rum a gill 
of maraschino, and water in place of lemon 
juice. The jelly must be very pale. Choose 
the fruits of as bright colors as possible — 
small green oranges, red cherries, bright yel- 
low mirabelles, angelica perfectly green. Cut 
the oranges in half — two or three will suffice 
— leave mirabelles and cherries whole ; apri- 



JELLIES. 221 

cots cut in half-moons. The angehea, if cut 
across a quarter-inch thick, will form rings, but 
if something more ornamental is desired it 
can be split lengthwise, softened in hot water, 
wiped, then tied into small love-knots. Pour 
into a mould set in ice (the melon shape is 
excellent for these jellies) an inch of jellj, 
let it set; then scatter in a few pieces of 
bright -colored fruit, always the best side 
downward; pour in an inch more of jelly, 
and when set more fruit, keeping the bright- 
er pieces towards the side ; if you have knots 
of angelica, put them near the side. Always 
see that one layer of fruit and jelly is nearly 
set before adding more. 

Although fruits added to jellies in the way 
just described are chiefly for decorative ef- 
fect, they do add very greatly to the pleasure 
of eating them ; but jellied fruits, as distin- 
guished from fruits in jelly, are a delicious 
mode of eating fruit, and where it is in 
abundance afford a pleasant variety. 

Jellied Raspberries. — Melt two ounces of 



222 CHOICE COOKERY. 

gelatine in a gill of water, squeeze half a 
pint of currant juice from fresh currants, and 
crush as many red raspberries as will with 
the liquid fill a quart measure. It is almost 
impossible to give definite directions for 
sugar, as fruits differ so much. Stir in six 
ounces, then if not sweet enough add more ; 
mould the jelly, and serve with cream. 

This is also very nice put in a border 
mould, the centre filled with whipped cream. 

Roman Punch Jellies. — These require stiff 
paper cases of any of the ornamental kinds 
used for ice-cream, but they must not flare. 
Make some maraschino or wine jelly. When 
it begins to set, pour the jelly into the cases, 
v/hich must be on ice, so that half the fluid 
jelly may set before it has time to soak the 
case. "When quite set, very carefully remove 
the centre, leaving a shell of jelly half an 
inch thick. The last thing before serving 
fill the centres with well-frozen Roman-punch 
ice. 

J. Macedoine of fruits, if well managed 



JELLIES. 223 

and a good assortment of fruits can be had, 
i^ a very ornamental way of serving fruit. 
A mould should have half an inch of mar- 
aschino, punch, wine, or lemon jelly poured 
into it; then some perfect strawberries, or, 
failing those, red cherries, as many as the 
jelly will hold together without crowding, 
no more ; then more jelly, and a layer of 
fruit of another kind (white, if possible), as 
pineapple cut into stars — a number of small 
stars can be stamped out of a few thin slices 
— more jelly, and a ring of dark fruit. Take 
care that all the finest fruits are used to 
form the outer rows. When the mould is 
almost full, Avith a layer or two of each kind 
of fruit, fill it up with jelly and set on ice. 

Creams are a favorite sweet in Europe, 
and eaten ice cold are delicious. Too often 
they are confounded here with blanc-mange, 
which may mean anything from corn-starch 
and milk to gelatine and cream, but seldom 
is improved by the confectioner's art into a 
really handsome and dainty dish. 



224 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Ginger Cream. — Make a custard of a gill 
of milk, an ounce of powdered sugar, and 
the beaten yolks of three eggs. Stir in a 
double boiler until thick. Let it cool. Then 
add one gill of the syrup from a jar of pre- 
served ginger, and cut up two ounces of the 
ginger; add three quarters of an ounce of 
gelatine melted in as little w^ater as possible. 
Last of all, add half a pint of cream whipped 
solid. Mix gently and till well blended ; pour 
into a mould, and set on ice. 

Neajpolitan Cream. — Make a custard of 
half a pint of milk, the yolks of four eggs, 
and a tablespoonful and a half of powdered 
sugar. Let it cool. Cut up three ounces of 
preserved ginger very small ; cook it in a gill 
of ginger syrup for three minutes. Let it 
cool also. Decorate the mould w4th one 
ounce of dried cherries and leaves, etc., of 
jelly. Cut the cherries in half, glue them 
with a little melted jelly to the side and bot- 
tom of the mould ; cut some jelly in thin 
slices, or melt it and let it run into thin 



JELLIES. 225 

sheets, which allow to chill, and stamp from 
them leaves, or whatever shapes you please. 
Glue these also to the side of the mould in 
the most effective way your taste can devise. 
Stir one ounce of gelatine melted in very lit- 
tle water, and half a pint of cream w^hipped 
solid, to the custard with which you have 
already mixed the ginger and syrup. Pour 
all into the decorated mould, put on ice, and 
when it is to be turned out wrap a cloth 
dipped in hot water round the mould ; give 
it a smart slap on both sides, and it will turn 
out without difficulty. 
15 



XXY. 

COLD SWEETS.— CKEAMS. 

Coffee Cream. — Make half a pint of cus- 
tard with two eggs and half a pint of milk; 
dissolve an ounce of gelatine and three ounces 
of sugar in half a gill of strong coffee ; add 
the custard, and strain ; whip half a pint of 
cream quite firm; stir lightly into the cus- 
tard ; when it is cool, pour into a mould, and 
set on ice. The excellence of this cream de- 
pends on the coffee, which must be filtered, 
not boiled, freshly made, and very strong — 
three tablespoonfuls of coffee to the half- 
pint. 

Curagoa Cream. — Make a custard with the 
yolks of four eggs and half a pint of milk ; 
dissolve half an ounce of gelatine in as little 
liquid as possible ; mix it with two ounces of 
powdered sugar; add to the custard; then 



COLD SWEETS. — CREAMS. 227 

stir in a generous glass of curagoa, and let 
the mixture cool, after which add half a pint 
of cream whipped solid. Stir very lightly 
together until well blended ; then mould and 
set on ice. 

Strawberry Cream, — Hull a pint of quite 
ripe strawberries ; put them on a fine sieve, 
and sprinkle an ounce of sugar over them ; 
put half an ounce of gelatine into a stewpan 
with tw^o tablespoonfuls of cold water, two 
ounces and a half of powdered sugar, and the 
juice of a lemon, and let it dissolve by gentle 
heat. Pass the strawberries through the 
sieve ; strain the gelatine, etc., to the straw- 
berry juice, and put to get cold; then add 
half a pint of cream whipped solid. Stir 
very lightly to the strawberry juice, etc., 
when the latter is beginning to set. 

Vanilla Cream. — Make a custard with 
three yolks and one white of ^g'g^ and half a 
pint of milk and three ounces of sugar ; melt 
an ounce of gelatine in two tablespoonfuls 
of water, strain it to the custard, and mix 



228 CHOICE COOKERY. 

well; whip half a pint of cream to a stiff 
froth, and stir it gently to the custard and 
gelatine ; flavor with vanilla. After the va- 
nilla is added, make a couple of spoonfuls of 
the custard pink with cochineal or straw- 
berry juice; let this cool in a thin sheet; 
stamp from it small clover leaves or lozenges, 
not over an inch long and three quarters 
broad ; decorate the bottom of a mould with 
them, using a little gelatine and water to 
fasten them ; set the mould in chopped ice, 
and about half-way up put four or five of 
the pink pieces ; take great care there is no 
inequality as to height or distance (slovenly 
decoration is worse than none). When the 
lozenges are quite secure in their places, pour 
in the cream. It is needless to repeat this 
form of decoration of creams, they can be 
varied so infinitely by individual taste, but 
as a rule they should be decorated only with 
small forms cut out of bright-colored jelly, 
or of cream colored pink, orange, pistache 
green, or brown. Candied fruits are not ef- 



COLD SWEETS. CEEAMS. 229 

fective, although sometimes used, unless the 
cream itself has fruit in it. 

Pistache Cream. — Half an ounce of gela- 
tine, two ounces of powdered sugar; melt 
the gelatine in a gill of water, then add the 
sugar, a glass of sherry, and a glass of kirsch. 
"Whip half a pint of thick cream solid, and 
when the gelatine is cold and beginning to 
thicken stir the cream to it very lightly, and 
at the same time two ounces of pistachio- 
nuts, blanched and chopped fine, with enough 
vegetable green coloring to make the cream 
a shade or two lighter in color than the nuts. 
This cream must be stirred lightly on ice af- 
ter the nuts are added, till thick enough for 
them not to sink. 

Almond Cream. — Half an ounce of gela- 
tine melted in a gill of water with two ounces 
of sugar and a glass of sherry; grate four 
ounces of almond paste into it, and stir in 
a double boiler or bowl set in boiling water 
until dissolved, or at least until there are no 
lumps. Let this get cool. Whip a pint and 



CHOICE COOKERY. 



a gill of cream solid, and stir to the mixture. 
Decorate a mould with any red jelly, pour the 
mixture in, and set on ice. In consequence 
of the variation in the strength of gelatine, 
in making any of these creams try a little on 
ice in a saucer before pouring into a mould, 
then add more cream or gelatine as required. 

Cold P tedding 8 and Frozen Puddings. — 
Some of these " puddings " might just as ap- 
propriately be called creams ; however, fash- 
ion ordains that they shall be puddings. One 
of the newest is the 

Juhilee Pudding. — Make a pint of claret 
jelly; pour it into a small border mould; 
whip half a pint of cream in which is a quar- 
ter of an ounce of dissolved gelatine. When 
it is whipped solid, stir in one ounce of pre- 
served or candied cherries, one ounce of can- 
died angelica, one ounce of preserved ginger, 
and one ounce of preserved apricot— the gin- 
ger and angelica cut small. Set on ice ; then 
turn out. Pile the whipped cream and fruit 
in the centre, and decorate according to fancy. 



COLD SWEETS. — CEEAMS. 231 

Cold Souffle Pudding d la Princesse. — 
Melt half an ounce of gelatine in a gill of 
cream ; set in boiling water till dissolved ; 
beat the yolks of three eggs well, and add to 
the milk ; when well mixed, put the custard 
into a double boiler till it thickens — it must 
not boil. Pour it into a bowl, and add a gill 
of apricot preserve, made into a puree by 
rubbing through a sieve with half a gill of 
orange juice, two ounces of sugar, a little 
lemon juice, and cochineal to color it a very 
delicate pink. Beat the whites of four eggs 
till they will not slip ; stir them in very light- 
ly with an upward motion of the spoon, the 
object being to keep the white of egg from 
falling, yet the whole must be thoroughly 
mixed. Stir till nearly cold before putting 
the souffle in a mould to set. 

Imperial Pice Pudding. — Pour a quarter 
of a pint of clear white jelly into a quart 
mould, turning the mould about so that the 
jelly covers every part ; this jelly serves to 
keep the ornaments in place. Cover the in- 



232 CHOICE COOKERY. 

side of the mould Avith an ounce of candied 
cherries split and half an ounce of angelica 
cut into thin rings. Stew a quarter of a 
pound of rice in a pint of milk till tender ; 
when cool, add half a pint of whipped cream, 
a quarter of an ounce of gelatine melted in a 
little water, a quarter of a pound of powdered 
sugar, and a teaspoonf ul of vanilla. When it 
is all well mixed, turn the preparation into 
the mould, and set on ice. When firm, turn 
out of the mould, and serve with a puree of 
apricots. 

Di^plomatic Pudding. — Make a quart of 
custard in the following way : Put the yolks 
of four eggs and the white of one into a bowl, 
and mix well with a Avooden spoon ; stir in 
half a pint of milk, and strain all into a double 
boiler or a pitcher ; add two ounces of sugar, 
and stand the pitcher (unless you have the 
double boiler) in a saucepan of boiling water, 
and stir the custard over the fire until it thick- 
ens, but it must not boil ; remove from the 
fire ; stir in a tablespoonful of brandy and a 



COLD SWEETS. CREAMS. 333 

little vanilla. Line a plain mould with half 
a pint of wine jelly ; this is done by pouring 
a little in at a time when it is half fluid, roll- 
ing the mould about on ice, and as soon as 
one coat adheres, pour in more, until the 
mould is evenly coated ; decorate it with half 
an ounce of candied cherries and half an 
ounce of angelica — the cherries split and the 
angelica cut. Melt an ounce of gelatine and 
two ounces of sugar in a gill of water; stir 
it into the custard with a gill of thick cream ; 
stir till cool ; then add an ounce more cher- 
ries, half an ounce of angelica, and half an 
ounce of citron, all chopped small. Pour this 
gently into the mould you have decorated, 
set on ice, turn out and serve. 

Cold Cahinet Pudding. — Ornament the 
bottom of a pint mould with candied cherries 
and angelica ; split half a dozen lady-fingers ; 
line the sides of the mould very evenly Avith 
them, arranging them alternately back and 
front against the mould; put in two ounces 
of ratafias (these are tiny macaroons about 



234 CHOICE COOKERY. 

the size of a five-cent piece, of high flavor, 
and to be obtained at the pastry-cooks' who 
make foreign specialties ; some grocers also 
import them) ; put four yolks of eggs into a 
bowl; stir them; then add half a pint of 
milk ; pour this custard into a double boiler, 
and stir until it thickens, taking care that it 
does not curdle. Melt half an ounce of gela- 
tine in a very little water ; strain it to the 
custard. When the latter cools, add half a 
gill of thick, fresh cream, two ounces of sugar, 
and a teaspoonful of vanilla; mix all well, 
and pour carefully into the mould without 
disturbing the lining of cake. Put the mould 
on ice, and, when set, turn out and serve. 



XXYI. 

CREAMS AND FROZEN PUDDINGS. 

Nut creams, with tlie exception of almond, 
are not very well known, but are so delicious 
that they ought to be. One reason perhaps 
is that it is not generally known that kernels 
of nuts, sach as hazel-nuts, walnuts, hickory- 
nuts, etc., can be bought by the pound at 
confectioners' supply stores. This, of course, 
saves the tedious work of cracking and shell- 
ing. To use with creams or for frozen pud- 
dings the nuts must be pounded very well, 
with very little white of egg — just enough to 
moisten and render the process easy. 

CoGoanut Cream. — Grate a fresh, sweet 
cocoanut (having first peeled, washed, and 
wiped it dry) ; mix Avith it an ounce of 
sugar; melt in as little water as possible 
three quarters of an ounce of gelatine ; whip 



236 CHOICE COOKERY. 

the whites of three eggs, mix them with half 
a pint of milk, and stir over the fire until the 
custard thickens; sweeten with four table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. Stir the gelatine and a 
full half -pint of grated cocoanut with the 
cocoanut milk into the custard. Whip half 
a pint of thick cream solid, and stir it very 
carefully into the custard ; when the latter 
is quite cold, but before it sets, flavor with a 
little vanilla or lemon extract. Mould and 
set on ice. 

Hazel-nut Cream. — Put a pint of hazel-nut 
kernels into a cool oven until they are thor- 
oughly dry and. rather hot (they must not 
become too hot, or they will change fla- 
vor) ; then rub them between two coarse 
cloths to get rid of as much as possible of the 
skin (it cannot be entirely removed) ; blow 
away the loose hulls, and pound the nuts to 
a paste with a little white of Qgg. Make a 
custard with the yolks of three eggs and half 
a pint of milk ; dissolve half an ounce of gel- 
atine in a gill of water, mix with six ounces 



CEEAMS AND FKOZEN PUDDINGS. 237 

of powdered sugar, and add to the custard 
when nearly cooL Stir in the hazel-nut paste, 
taking care that it is well mixed with the cus- 
tard, and add a half-pint of cream whipped 
solid ; flavor with vanilla, or you may omit 
flavoring, the hazel-nut being sufficient for 
many people. Mould and set on ice. 

This cream and the two that follow are 
flecked with brown, for which reason it may 
be colored browm with caramel, although I pre- 
fer it uncolored, the specks being no more ob- 
jectionable than the vanilla seeds one rejoices 
to see in ice-cream. 

Walnut or Ilickory-nut Cream. — Pound 
one pint of either of these nuts, after rub- 
bing them well in a cloth, make the same 
custard as for hazel-nut cream, stir in the 
w^alnut or hickory -nut paste till smooth, add 
the whipped cream, color a pale pink with 
cochineal, and flavor faintly with rum or 
vanilla. Mould, set on ice, and serve with 
whipped cream flavored shghtly with rum. 

Bohemian Jelly Creams. — These may be 



238 CHOICE COOKERY. 

made of any flavor, according to the jellj 
you use. It may be jelly of fruit or liqueur. 
If fresh fruit is used for jell}^, the juice must 
be expressed, and well-sweetened gelatine 
added in the proportion of an ounce to the 
pint. If jam or marmalade is used, a pint 
of water is added and the same amount of 
gelatine, with the juice of half a lemon to the 
pint. Water, jam, and dissolved gelatine 
must be mixed quickly and passed through 
a sieve ; either must be stirred in a bowl set 
in ice till quite cold and beginning to thick- 
en; then stir in gently and quickly three- 
quarters of a pint of cream whipped solid ; 
pour the mixture into the mould, which must 
be set in ice. Cover well, and keep on ice 
till needed. 

Frangipanni Iced Pudding. — Grate six 
ounces of almond paste to crumbs ; then on 
a smaller grater grate four or six bitter al- 
monds blanched and dried ; pound a dozen 
candied orange -flower petals with three- 
quarters of a pound of poAvdered sugar ; put 



CEEAMS AND FROZEN PUDDINGS. 239 

all into a stewpan Avitli the yolks of eight 
eggs, and beat them very well together. In 
another stewpan have a pint and a half of 
boiling milk, which must be poured over the 
other ingredients by degrees, keeping them 
well stirred. Place it over the fire, stirring 
until it thickens and adheres to the back of 
the spoon; rub this all through a coarse 
sieve, add a glass of sherry, and when cold 
pour the mixture into the freezer ; when half 
frozen add a pint and a half of whipped 
cream, and when quite frozen fill a pudding 
mould, bury it in ice and salt, and serve as 
you would Nesselrode pudding. 

Iced Cabinet Pudding. — Cut a stale sponge 
cake into slices half an inch thick and rather 
smaller than the mould you intend to use for 
the pudding ; lay the slices of cake to soak 
in brandy flavored with noyau ; decorate the 
bottom and sides of the mould with candied 
fruits, split cherries, angelica rings, the same 
of green oranges, and little diamonds of gin- 
ger, with a few whole ratafias, dipping them 



240 CHOICE COOKERY. 

in jelly to make them adhere ; lay in one 
slice of cake, then cherries and ratafias, an- 
other slice of cake, and so on, until the mould 
is three parts full. Make a quart of custard 
with six yolks of eggs, three tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, and an ounce of gelatine ; when this 
is cold pour part into the mould, which must 
close hermetically; pack it in salt and ice 
for at least two hours; when you wish to 
turn it out, dip it a minute in lukewarm 
water. Keep the remaining custard on ice, 
flavor it with sherry or rum, beat it up, 
pour it around the pudding, and strew it 
with chopped pistachio-nuts. 

Ice Pudding. — Make a custard with a pint 
and a half of milk, one whole ^gg and the 
yolks of four others, and a quarter of a pound 
of sugar ; when cold, add half a glass of bran- 
dy, a glass of maraschino, an ounce of citron 
cut fine, a quarter of a pound of dried fruits, 
and an ounce of pistachio-nuts, the fruits cut 
up in small pieces, the pistachio-nuts blanched 
and split ; mix well ; and lastly add half a 



CREAMS AND FROZEN PUDDINGS. 241 

pint of whipped cream. When well frozen, 
pack into a pudding mould, and bury in ice 
and salt till wanted. 

Bombay Ice Pudding. — Line a plain mould 
Avith Koman-punch ice an inch thick, keeping 
it bedded nearly to the brim in ice and salt 
while you do it ; then fill the centre with the 
following mixture : a pint of cocoanut grated 
very fine, mixed with a pint of ice-cream; 
take great care that the cocoanut is ice-cold 
before you mix it in, or it will melt the ice- 
cream. When the mould is filled within an 
inch of the top, cover it with Koman punch, 
close the mould hermetically, and bury in 
ice. These puddings, where two kinds of 
ice are used, must only be attempted after 
one has learned to pack plain ice-cream with 
success. 

Iced Jelly Plodding. — Make a custard with 
a pint of boiling cream, three ounces of sugar, 
and the yolks of four eggs beaten ; pour the 
cream to the eggs very carefuU}^, stirring it 
in by degrees. Have ready a quarter of an 
16 



342 CHOICE COOKERY. 

ounce of gelatine dissolved in very little milk, 
mix it in, and put the vessel containing the 
custard in a stewpan of boiling water, and 
stir till it just thickens ; then whisk it until 
nearly cold. Mask a quart mould with jelly 
an inch thick — any favorite red jelly, or a pale 
one tinted. Directions have already been 
given how the inside of a mould is to be 
coated with jelly. There is an easier but 
extravagant way, namely, to fill the mould 
with jelly, then scoop out the centre neatly, 
leaving a shell of jelly an inch thick. The 
centre, of course, might be made hot and bot- 
tled for another occasion, or to make Bo- 
hemian cream jellies. When the mould is 
masked, fill it with the custard, which must 
be half frozen ; then cover securely, and pack 
in ice and salt at least five hours before it is 
served. 



XXYII. 

ICED PUDDINGS. 

Filbert and Wine Iced Pudding. — To one 
pint of cream put four tablespoonf uls of sugar 
and two glasses of fine sherry. The cream 
must be perfectly sweet, but should be at 
least twenty-four hours old, and be ice cold. 
Whip this solid ; then freeze. Put a pint of 
filberts in a cool oven till the skins will near- 
ly all rub off ; put them between two coarse 
cloths, and rub as much as possible of the 
brown coating off them ; pound them to a 
paste with a little thick cream, mix four 
ounces of sugar with the nuts, and then 
blend the whole with enough thick custard 
to make a very thick batter; flavor with 
lemon or vanilla, or not, as you choose ; freeze. 
Line a plain mould Avitli the frozen wine 
cream an inch thick ; then fill in the centre 



244 CHOICE COOKERY. 

with the frozen filberts well pressed in ; cov- 
er tight, and pack in ice and salt for three 
hours, or until wanted. This pudding can 
be made of walnuts and port-wine cream. 

Iced Custard with Fruit. — Flavor one pint 
of cream with any liqueur you prefer ; beat 
twelve eggs thoroughly; strain them; boil 
the cream with ^nq ounces of sugar, and 
when it is just off the boil pour it, little by 
little, to the eggs ; add a quarter of an ounce 
of gelatine that has been dissolved in ver\^ 
little water and strained to the custard; 
whisk until cold ; have ready a mould 
masked with candied fruits. To mask, set 
the mould in a pan of cracked ice, and dip 
each piece of fruit in strong melted jelly; 
build up from the bottom of the mould hav- 
ing all the fruits, cut about the thickness of 
a split candied cherry and near the size, ar- 
ranged with a view to a good effect when 
the mould shall be turned out. Half freeze 
the custard, and pour it in the mould three 
inches high ; throw in some of the trimmings 



RICE A LA TRINCESSE. 245 

of candied fruit chopped line. When set, 
add more custard, then more fruit, until the 
mould is full. Let it stand in ice at least 
five hours before it is wanted. 

Rice d la Princesse. — Let some rice swell 
in water until quite tender ; proportion, one 
cup of rice to two (scant) of water ; then but- 
ter a saucepan ; put the rice into it, with half 
a pint of milk ; let it stew gently till it will 
mash ; the milk must have all been absorbed ; 
sweeten with three tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Mix with this a gill of apricot jam, a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla, and half a pint of whipped 
cream ; freeze ; when well frozen, pack in a 
mould and bury in ice and salt. Found a 
dozen macaroons ; stir them into a pint of 
whipped cream ; let the mixture be put on 
ice. When the pudding is turned out of the 
mould, cover with the macaroon cream, and 
decorate the dish with cubes of peach or 
apricot jelly. 

Chocolate Cream Pudding. — Boil a quarter 
of a pound of the finest vanilla chocolate in 



246 CHOICE COOKERY. 

half a pint of milk, whisking it well till it 
boils; dissolve in it two tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar. Beat three half -pints of 
cream and three tablespoonfuls of sugar solid 
while the chocolate cools ; when it is ice cold 
mix in one half the beaten cream, and freeze. 
Line a plain mould with the frozen chocolate 
(the remainder of the whipped cream should 
have been kept in cracked ice and salt, so as 
to be ice cold) ; fill up the centre of the mould 
with the cream, cover tight, and bury in salt 
and ice. 

Ice~Or earns and Ices. — There are so many- 
ways of making ice-cream that all one can 
do is to indicate the one or two best, and cer- 
tainly the very best is the simplest, and there 
is no dessert so easy to prepare in hot weath- 
er as this, since there is no work over the fire. 
The only trouble is breaking the ice and turn- 
ing the machine for some twenty minutes, 
which can be done by a child. 

Simplest Fruit lee- Cream. — Mash two 
pounds of strawberries or raspberries, put 



FRUlt ICE-CREAM. 347 

to them half a pound of powdered sugar, and 
let them remain in a cold place two or three 
hours, so that the juice may run ; then strain 
the juice to a quart of thick sweet cream and 
another half pound of sugar, with the juice 
of half a lemon; stir, and pour cream and 
fruit juice into the freezer, which must be 
packed with ice and rock-salt in about equal 
quantities, the ice being broken quite small. 
Let the cream remain standing in the freezer 
a few minutes before you begin to turn ; then 
freeze, letting off the water, and filling anew 
with ice and salt if necessary. Stir the cream 
down as it forms, and keep on turning ^ve or 
ten minutes after it is actually necessary. 
This extra working insures that extreme 
smoothness characteristic of Italian and 
French ice-cream. If you are not expert in 
freezing, be satisfied not to pack your cream 
in a mould for the first few times. Take out 
the paddle of the freezer, press the ice com- 
pactly dowm in the freezer, cover, and see 
that the ice and salt are sufficient and free 



248 CHOICE COOKERY. 

from water. In two hours you can turn the 
ice out of the freezer in a round column or 
loaf that will be quite as sightly as the ob- 
long square one frequently gets from the ca- 
terer. Many people think that simply freez- 
ing the pure cream produces the loose, frothy 
cream found at inferior confectioners', but 
this is not the case ; pure cream frozen re- 
sults in a firm smooth mass which cuts like 
butter. 

I have given the formula for raspberry 
and strawberry cream only, but any fruit 
juice may be substituted, varying the quan- 
tity of sugar as required. 

When it is desirable to freeze the fruit in 
the cream instead of the juice, it must not be 
added until the cream is frozen. Stir in rasp- 
berries, strawberries, chopped pineapple, ba- 
nana, or peaches just before the ice is ready 
to pack down ; otherwise the fruit, being full 
of water, will freeze into hard knots. 

Ttitti-friitti Ice- Cream being made from 
chopped candied fruit, this precaution is not 



CUSTARD FOR ICE-CREAM. 249 

necessary ; the fruit may be added at any 
time during the freezing, or stirred in last, as 
you please. 

I have given the simplest and best method 
of making ice-cream, yet the way most in use 
is to add custard ; and French cooks always 
use "meringue paste," claiming that it in- 
sures a smoothness and hghtness nothing else 
can give. 

Custard for Ice-Cream. — This is made as 
any other custard, except that double the 
amount of sugar is allowed for everything 
that is to be frozen. It may be made of 
from three to six eggs to a pint of milk, as 
you prefer. This must be ice cold before 
you put it in the freezer. 

Ice-Cream with Eggs. — One pint of milk, 
three eggs, leaving out one white, half a 
pound of sugar (if acid fruit is to be added, 
it may require more for some tastes). Make 
a custard of these materials, and half freeze 
it ; then add a pint of cream whipped solid. 
Stir in well and finish freezing, turning the 



250 CHOICE COOKERY. 

handle some few minutes after it gets pretty 
stiff, if there is a strong enough hand near 
to do it. 

In making varieties of ice-cream you have 
only to consider the fitness of the articles 
you use ; for instance, any sort of fruit may 
be added, with the exception of lemons. 
Fleshy fruits, such as pineapple, peaches, 
pears, etc., are usually mixed with the cream 
uncooked in this country ; abroad this is only 
done with soft fruits, such as raspberries, 
blackberries, oranges, and such as will mash 
through a colander. Others are very slight- 
ly stewed in rich syrup (as nearly their 
own juice as possible), then pulped and 
mixed through when the cream is nearly 
frozen. 

In winter, fruit jams, and especially jellies, 
are very pleasant in ice-cream ; they always 
require a little lemon juice to restore some of 
the natural sharpness of fresh fruit. A tum- 
bler of red currant jelly turned into a pint of 
ice-cream is delicious, and gives a pretty, faint 



GRILLED ALMOND CREAM. 251 

pink tint. The method is just the same wheth- 
er for custard and cream or cream alone. 

The meringue paste alluded to as used by 
foreign confectioners is made by beating the 
Avhite of an egg with a tablespoonful of pow- 
dered sugar until stiff. 

Grilled Almoyid Ice-Cream. — Make a quart 
of ice-cream ; grill some almonds in the fol- 
lowing way : Blanch four ounces of almonds, 
dry them in a hot spot till they are brittle ; 
then put in a thick saucepan or saute pan 
four ounces of sugar and a gill of water ; let 
them boil five minutes; throw in the al- 
monds ; stir them till part of the sugar ad- 
heres and they begin to turn yellow. Take 
them up, chop them, and when quite cold stir 
them into the ice-cream, which should be 
flavored with vanilla. 



XXYIII. 

ICE-CREAMS AND WATER-ICES. 

To those very fond of tea, ice-cream made 
with it is very acceptable, and is very much 
used at English garden parties. 

Tea Ice- Cream. — To one pound of granu- 
lated sugar put a pint of strong green tea, a 
pint and a half of cream, and two quarts of 
rich milk, and a very little cinnamon water. 
Let the whole simmer one minute, not stir- 
ring, but keeping the mixture in motion by 
gently swinging the saucepan. Freeze as 
usual. This recipe may be used for coffee 
and chocolate ; it will make a large quantity, 
and for a medium-sized family one quarter 
will suffice. 

Chinese Ice. — Beat the yolks of fifteen eggs 
with three quarters of a pound of powdered 
sugar; pound four ounces of pistachio-nuts 



WATEK-ICES. 253 

(blanched) with the white of an egg ; put to 
it three gills of Avater ; stir it over the fire in 
a double boiler till it is as thick as cream ; 
take great care that it does not boil. Color 
it green, or part green and part yellow ; fla- 
vor as you please ; cut up a couple of candied 
Chinese oranges small and a little preserved 
ginger, and freeze. 

Water-ices. — These are exceedingly sim- 
ple, and no more elegant form of refreshment 
can be offered than a plate of well-frozen or 
a tumbler of half-frozen water-ice. It is ac- 
ceptable when ice-cream would be too heavy, 
and can be offered at the simplest country 
afternoon tea, or during a call, without the 
seeming ostentation of ice-cream. 
^ Ginger Water-ice (to serve as a beverage 
if preferred). — Take six ounces of preserved 
ginger, free from fibre ; pound it ; make two 
quarts of lemonade by paring eight or ten 
lemons so thinly that the knife-blade shows 
through the yellow; put the peel of three 
in a pitcher with a pound and a quarter of 



254 CHOICE COOKERY. 

sugar ; pour two quarts of boiling water on 
them, and cover ; squeeze and strain the juice 
from the lemons, add to the water, and w^hen 
cold stir in the pounded ginger, with the 
meringue paste made with the whites of four 
eggs. Freeze it. If for drinking, only half 
freeze, work only enough to make it like 
half -melting snow, and use only sugar enough 
to make a refreshing drink. Italians call 
this granito^ and it is a form of ice not often 
met with in this country. 

Pineapple Water-ice. — This can be readily 
made of canned pineapple when the fresh 
fruit is out of season. Peel a pineapple; 
grate it into a mortar; then pound it well 
with six ounces of sugar ; let it stand covered 
for an hour; add the juice of five oranges^ 
and a pint and a half of syrup boiled to the 
little thread, or a lisse. (This syrup is much 
used in making w^ater-ices, punches, etc. It 
is sugar and water boiled till it forms a little 
thread between thumb and finger.) Mix 
well and freeze. If canned fruit is used, you 



WATER-ICES. 255 

need less sugar, and substitute lemon for half 
the orange juice. 

Ahnond Water-ice. — Take one pound of 
almond paste, a pint and a half of water, and 
three quarters of a pound of sugar ; grate the 
paste ; then stir till quite dissolved. Flavor 
with vanilla or raspberry ; stir in the w^hites 
of two eggs and some candied fruits cut up 
small. Freeze as usual. 

Cinnamon Water-ice. — This is a German 
ice, and very much liked by those who are 
fond of the flavor. Pound an ounce of the 
finest quality of cinnamon in the stick, put 
it into a pint and a half of boiling water, 
and cover it w^ell ; w^hen it is cold add a 
quart of syrup (the little thread) and the 
well-beaten whites of two eggs, and freeze it. 

Pistachio Water-Ice. — Blancl],and pound a 
pound of pistachio-nuts, using the white of 
an Qgg to moisten ; mix with a quart of syrup 
a lisse. Heighten the color, if too pale, with 
spinach coloring, and flavor to taste. (Pista- 
chio-nuts have no flavor of their own, aston- 



256 CHOICE COOKERY. 

ishing as the fact may seem to those who 
have heard frequently of pistachio flavor.) 
Freeze as usual. 

Ajpricot Water-ice. — There is no more deli- 
cious water-ice than this if fine-flavored apri- 
cots are used. The canned ones are excellent 
for the purpose. Pulp two pounds of apri- 
cots through a sieve or jelly press ; grate or 
pound very fine fiNQ or six bitter almonds ; 
mix with the pulp the juice of the apricots 
(from the can), and a pint and a half of syrup, 
and the beaten whites of three eggs made 
into a paste with three tablespoonf uls of pow- 
dered sugar ; stir all well, and freeze. This 
ice ought to be the color of apricots ; if too 
pale, add a very little saffron coloring. 

Currant Water-ice. — A pint of currant 
juice, a pint of syrup, and the whites of three 
eggs made into meringue paste. Freeze as 
usual. Any of these water-ices can be half 
frozen as granitic and served in glasses as 
granito, the only exceptions being the almond 
and pistachio water-ices. 



GKANITI. 257 

Graniii are also made of various kinds 
of light punches by adding to a quart of the 
usual punch recipe a quart of sweetened 
water. Any summer beverage made from 
fruit juice can be turned into a granito, 
by half freezing, in either of the following 
ways : 

To Freeze Graniti. — Mix the beverage you 
intend to freeze, for instance, ive will say, a 
pint of very strong, clear, bright coffee and 
half a pint of syrup a lisse. Put them into 
the freezer and turn ; as it becomes frozen 
up the sides, scrape it down wath a spoon, 
and remember, as soon as it resembles snowy 
water (not white, of course) it is frozen 
enough. It must be just liquid enough to 
pour out. 

There is a second way of freezing graniti 
by which they can be put on the table in the 
vessel in which they were frozen. Place the 
mixture in Avide-mouthed water-bottles, twirl 
them round in ice and salt, and, as the con- 
tents become frozen on the inside of the bot- 
17 



258 CHOICE COOKERY. 

tie, scrape down with a narrow wooden stick 
or spatula. When frozen in perfection the 
bottle should seem half filled with tiny 
crystals. 

Claret Granito. — To one pint of orangeade 
add a bottle of claret. Half freeze. 

Sherry Granito. — To one quart of lemon- 
ade add a bottle of sherry, and freeze. 

The housekeeper who lives far from a large 
city will need materials for many of the reci- 
pes given in these papers and others which 
she will meet with in books on high-class 
cooking. Many of these can be sent for by 
mail, and all, of course, by express ; but it 
will often not seem worth while to send per- 
haps for one small bottle that we may lack. 
For this reason I give a few directions for 
preparing very tolerable imitations of liq- 
ueurs, which, however, unless it were a ques- 
tion of economy, it might not be worth while 
doing if within reach of stores. 

Curagoa. — Pare a dozen and a half of dead- 
ripe oranges so thin that you can see the 



LIQUEURS. 259 

knife pass under the rind ; pound one dram 
of finest cinnamon and half a dram of mace ; 
put them to steep for fifteen days in a gallon 
of pure alcohol, shaking it every day. Make 
a clarified syrup of four pounds of sugar and 
one quart of water well boiled and skimmed ; 
add this to the cura9oa. Kub up in a mortar 
one dram of potash with a teaspoonful of 
the liqueur; when well mixed add it, and 
then do the same with a dram of alum. Shake 
well, and in an hour or two filter through 
thin muslin. It Avill be ready for use in a 
a week. 

Maraschino. — Bruise two ounces of cherry 
kernels and one of bitter almonds ; put them 
in a deep jar with the thin outer rind of 
twelve oranges and five lemons. Steep in 
one gallon of English gin or alcohol. Let 
the whole stand a fortnight, then filter and 
bottle. 

Ratafia. — Blanch the kernels of uncooked 
peaches or apricots, and when you have two 
ounces ppund them, and pour to them a quart 



260 CHOICE COOKERY. 

of gin or alcohol and the thin yellow rind of 
two lemons. Sweeten with a pound of white 
sugar-candy, and leave the whole for two 
months ; then filter and bottle for use. 

Candied Orange and Lemon Peels. — These 
are invaluable both as decoration for certain 
desserts and for culinary purposes, and as 
they are not always to be found except in 
the larger cities, the method of preparing 
them is here given : Throw the peels into 
salt and water, all pulp being removed, but 
the white part must be left untouched; in 
fact, the thicker the peel the better for the 
purpose, thin-skinned oranges being of no use 
for candying. Let them remain in the salt 
and w^ater from nine days to three weeks; 
then wash them, put them on the fire in cold 
water, and let them boil till perfectly tender, 
yet they must not be mushy. During the 
time they are boiling change the water until 
it no longer tastes salt. Lemon-peels may 
take from three to four hours' boiling, orange- 
peels less ; but remember, should the lemon- 



CANDIED ORANGE AND LEMON PEELS. 261 

peel not be quite tender, it will harden when 
it goes into syrup, and instead of a rich 
sweetmeat there will be only w^oody chips. 
Drain the peels, and make a thin syrup of a 
pint of water to each pound of sugar. Let 
it boil five minutes ; then throw in the peels ; 
they must boil gently in this until they are 
clear and the syrup has become thick — 
almost boiled away, in fact. Now make 
another syrup, half a pint of water to two 
pounds of sugar ; let it boil till clear and till 
there is a short hair from the fork. N^ow 
put in the peels (which must have been 
drained from the other syrup) ; remove from 
the fire ; stir them round till the syrup looks 
whitish ; then lift each piece out and lay it 
on a dish on Avhich granulated sugar has 
been freely sprinkled. 

Both orange and lemon peels are candied 
by the same process, but they must never be 
put in the same vessel of salt and water, nor 
must they be candied together, or the dis- 
tinctive flavors would be lost. 



XXIX. 

MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 

Under this head I intend to give a few 
sweets that seem to me unusually good, al- 
though they may not always be novel, ex- 
cept in manner of serving. A compote of 
fruit has nothing new about it, yet by the 
way in which it is served it may simply be 
" stewed fruit," or it may be a dish fit to 
find a place even in choice cookery. 

In making compotes great care must be 
taken to preserve the shape and color of the 
fruits. In order to do this they must be 
quickly peeled and dipped into strong lemon 
juice and water, and dropped into syrup in 
which also a little lemon juice has been 
squeezed. Pass the blade of the knife over 
its own marks to obliterate the appearance 
of peeling. Peaches and apricots may be 



MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 263 

boiled up without peeling, and (unless they 
are allowed to get too soft) the skins will be 
removed easily. It will be observed that 
hard fruits such as apples are simmered in 
thin s^^rup to get tender, while rich soft 
fruits are dropped into syrup boiled to candy 
height. 

Apple Compote No. 1. — Cut up and boil 
half a dozen apples in a pint of water. When 
they are quite soft strain the juice from them 
without squeezing ; put to it half a pound of 
granulated sugar and the zest of a lemon 
(the zest is the peel so thin that the knife 
blade can be seen through it while paring), 
together with the juice. Let this syrup boil 
for a minute; skim it. Then pare half a 
dozen fine cooking apples ; core them ; let 
them boil gently in the syrup until quite 
tender, but not in danger of breaking. Take 
them up on a perforated skimmer. When 
cold, put the apples into a compote dish. 
Boil the juice to a jelly ; pour part of it over 
the apples ; dip a plate in cold water, drain 



264 CHOICE COOKERY. 

it, and then pour out the rest of the jelly into 
it : it should only cover it about the thick 
ness of thick paper. When stiff, Avarm the 
under-side of the plate very slightly, pass a 
broad thin knife under, and lay the sheet oi 
jelly over the apples in the compote dish. 

Apple Compote Xo. 2. — Prepare the apples 
as in last recipe, but before the last sheet oi 
jelly is laid over them ornament with rings 
and leaves of angelica, and any red jelly or 
preserve cut in thin slices and stamped out 
with tiny tin cutters in leaves, stars, or fancy 
shapes (stiff red currant jelly or red quince 
may be used); decorate thus each apple; 
then lay the thin sheet of apple jelly over all. 

Compote of Stuffed Ajyples. — Prepare the 
apples as in the foregoing recipes, taking 
care to core them all through without split- 
ting the apple. When the apples are done, 
fill the centre with orange marmalade or 
apricot preserve. Boil the syrup down till 
it will glaze ; pour it over the apples Avhen 
they are ice-cold, the syrup also only warm 



MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 2G5 

enough to remain liquid. By this means 
the rich coating will remain over the apples, 
while if both w^ere w^arm it w^ould run off. 

Compote of Aiyjples or Pears Grille. — If you 
have any apples or pears left from a compote 
(or you may, of course, prepare them especial- 
ly), put them into a frying or saute pan over 
a brisk fire ; put w^ith them any syrup there 
may be and a cup of sugar just dissolved in 
water ; boil rapidly down to a pale caramel, 
roUing the apples with a fork so that they 
become covered wntli the caramel. Take 
great care that the syrup does not burn ; re- 
move it from the fire the moment it begins 
to change color. The apples should now have 
an even glossy surface ; as each is finished 
put it at once into the compotier. Pour a lit- 
tle cura9oa syrup round just before sending 
to table. 

Compote of Apple Marmalade. — This is 
not so troublesome to make as it sounds, es- 
pecially to any one who has made glace nuts 
— a very general accomplishment nowadays. 



266 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Reduce some apple marmalade by leaving it 
for an hour or two in a double boiler; the 
water boiling round it will evaporate moist- 
ure without danger of burning. Stir occa- 
sionallv, and when the marmalade is so re- 
duced that it will make a firm paste when 
cold (try a little in a saucer on ice), color one 
half pink with cochineal. Spread half an inch 
thick on plates slightly oiled ; when stiff and 
cold, cut out the marmalade into squares, 
ovals, diamonds, leaves, etc., w^ith tin cutters. 
Boil a pound of sugar with a gill of water to 
the crack — that is, until a teaspoohf ul dropped 
in ice- water will crack between the teeth. 
Oil a fork and a large dish, and use the fork 
to drop the pieces of marmalade into the 
candy ; lift them out quickly, and lay them 
on the dish, which will be better if it is set 
on ice. When they are cold, dish them in a 
pyramid, the pink to contrast w4th the white 
effectively. Pour a little liqueur-flavored 
syrup round the base of the fruit. 

Compote of Pears {white). — Use any fine- 



MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 267 

flavored dessert pears. Cut them in halves, 
core, pare, and trim neatly, and simmer them 
in syrup (a pound of sugar and juice of half 
a lemon to a pint of water) till they are ten- 
der, yet firm to the touch. Dish the pieces, 
keeping them close to each other. Lay a 
thin sheet of apple jelly over them, and the 
syrup, boiled down till rich and thick, round 
them. 

A Pink Compote is prepared in the same 
way, the only difference being that a very 
few drops of cochineal are added to the 
syrup before the pears go in. Decorate with 
angelica. 

Pears d la Princesse. Select seven pears 
of the best quality, without blemish, and of 
equal size ; pare them with great care ; stand 
them close together in a saucepan, with weak 
acidulated syrup to cover them ; simmer 
slowly till quite tender, but yet firm to the 
touch ; take them up, leaving the syrup to 
boil down. When cold, cut the stalk end 
off each pear about an inch deep, or so as 



268 CHOICE COOKERY. 

to leave about an inch of surface, on which 
place a ring of angelica (simply cut angelica 
crosswise and it forms rings, being tubular) ; 
if the rings are flattened, lay them in syrup ; 
when softened bend tliem round and lay one 
on each pear ; then, if in season, dip a fine 
strawberry or stoned red cherry in the hot 
syrup and lay it on the ring of angelica. Cut 
strips of angelica and run them through the 
strawberry down to the pear, both to hold 
the decoration in place and to represent the 
stalk ; dish them standing ; when dished up, 
pour some syrup, boiled till tliick and rich, 
over the seven pears. When fresh fruit is not 
in season for decoration, use candied cherries. 
Yariegated Compote of Pears. — This is a 
pretty dish. Prepare some pears as in the 
last recipe, except that the tops are not to be 
cut off ; color half the number a pale pink by 
adding a few drops of cochineal to the syrup 
in which they are simmered ; dress them al- 
ternately, a pink pear and a white one, in 
the compotier ; pour over each the pink and 



MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 269 

white syrup in which they were cooked, and 
pour syrup flavored with vanilla round them. 

Compote of Oranges. — Divide six oranges 
in halves ; first cut out the centre string of 
pith, pick all pips out carefully, and with a 
very sharp knife pare off the peel of the 
orange down to the naked transparent pulp ; 
in this w^ay you get rid of the w^hole of the 
white outside skin. Place the halves as you 
do them in a bowl ; pour over them some 
hot syrup boiled a lisse, flavored with orange 
peel, rubbed wath lump sugar, and previously 
dissolved in the syrup ; a very little lemon 
juice should be added if the oranges are very 
sweet. Let them steep a few minutes ; then 
remove them ; then build the oranges into a 
pyramid on the compotier, and the last thing 
before going to table pour the syrup, well 
boiled and cold, over them. 

Chestnut Compote. — Take the largest 
French or Spanish chestnuts, make slits in 
the peel, and boil till tender ; take off the 
shell, and press them flat without breaking ; 



270 CHOICE COOKERY. 

lay them in a saucepan ; pour over them 
thick syrup ; put them in the oven, but do 
not let them boil; when they look quite 
clear take them up, put them into the com- 
potier, boil the syrup to candy height, squeeze 
into the compotier the juice of an orange, 
and pour the candy over the chestnuts. 

Chestnut Compote IS^o. 2. — Prepare the nuts 
as in last recipe ; put the yolks of three eggs 
in a saucepan ; stir gradually to them a pint 
of cream ; cook a quarter of a pound of sugar 
to the crack, with a few dried orange flowers ; 
the minute the candy begins to get yellowish 
pour it into the cream, stirring constantly, 
and let it come to boiling-point ; then strain 
the cream over the chestnuts. 



XXX. 

MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS.— Continued. 

Strawberries, raspberries, currants, etc., 
need very little cooking, and that little in 
high candy. If it is understood that strong 
syrup tends to make fruit firm, and Aveak 
syrup to make it tender, it will be seen why 
all soft fruit, in order to keep its shape, 
should be dropped into candy boiled till brit- 
tle, and why apples and other hard fruits 
should be first stewed in weak syrup until 
soft ; yet there are degrees ; for instance, 
hard peaches require thin syrup, and very 
luscious ones must be put into syrup that is 
very near candy. This is also the case with 
pears. Be guided as to the strength of the 
syrup by the kind of fruit. Avoid fruit that 
is very ripe, because the syrup from it will 
not jelly readily. 



272 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Compote of Strawberries. — Select a quart 
of fine large berries, rather under than over 
ripe ; boil three quarters of a pound of sugar 
to the crack ; drop the strawberries into the 
syrup after it is removed from the fire ; re- 
turn them to the range ; let them boil gen- 
tly once ; take out the berries most carefully 
with the skimmer ; lay them on the compo- 
tier ; boil the syrup fast, skimming it care- 
fully ; then pour it over the fruit. 

Compote of Cherries is made in the same 
way, with the finest red cherries, only they 
require to boil up several times. When 
clear, drain them with the skimmer; lay 
them in the compote dishes ; add a gill of 
red currant juice to the sj^rup; boil it till 
it is a weak jelly; then throw it over the 
cherries when nearly cold. 

Orange Baskets Filled with Fruits. — Select 
seven oranges, not too large, but all the same 
size. With a very sharp knife pare the fruit 
as thin as possible — so thin that it still re- 
mains yellow, and only the shining outer 



MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 273 

surface is removed (in fact, it may be ligbtly 
grated off, but that is more trouble), to ren- 
der them transparent ; cut two quarters out 
of the upper part of the orange, so as to 
leave a narrow band half an inch wide, which 
Avill form the handle ; pass the knife care- 
fully round inside the band, so as to remove 
the strip of pulp. With the bowl of a tea- 
spoon detach the remaining pulp from the 
inside without in any way damaging the 
shape of the basket. As you prepare them, 
drop them in a saucepan of cold w^ater, and 
then put them into boiling water, and sim- 
mer three minutes gently. This is only to 
soften the peel and enable you to stamp out 
the edges with a perforating cutter, if you 
have one, which will give them an open- 
work effect ; if not, just scallop them with 
scissors, and snip out a sort of trellis-work to 
increase the basket effect. Put them into a 
preserving -kettle with weak syrup a lisse, 
boil them gently till they look clear, then 
put them aside in the syrup till next day ; 
18 



274 CHOICE COOKERY. 

boil the syrup twice alone at intervals of 
several hours, and throw it over the baskets. 
These baskets may be kept ready prepared 
for months by putting them in wide jars 
and covering them with syrup. When re- 
quired for use, they must be taken out, 
drained thoroughly, and then filled with a 
variety of small fruits, such as cherries, straw- 
berries, currants, etc., which have been mixed 
with a little apple or orange jelly. In win- 
ter, ambrosia — a mixture of cut-up banana, 
grated cocoa-nut, orange quarters, etc. — may 
be served in them, or a mixture of preserved 
fruits that are firm, such as Chinese oranges, 
limes, ginger, etc. In all cases serve them 
on a compote dish, and throw over them 
syrup flavored with maraschino. 

Lemon Bashets are prepared precisely as 
the orange baskets, but they require longer 
boiling, and the syrup they are served with 
should be flavored with citronelle or the 
rasped peel of green limes. 

Orange Baskets Glace, — These are not 



MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 275 

much more trouble than the baskets simply 
preserved, but if successfully done they can 
be very effectively filled with candies or ice- 
cream. Prepare the baskets as in last recipe, 
drain them on a napkin, very carefully re- 
move all moisture from the inside, and set 
them over a register, or in an oven with the 
door open, to dry. Boil two pounds of sugar 
with a pint of water and two tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar till it begins to change color (this 
is some little time after the brittle stage is 
reached, and is called caramel) ; lightly oil 
the skimmer, and drop a basket in the candy ; 
remove as quickly as possible, but see that 
the whole is well coated, yet has as little 
superfluous candy as possible, for which rea- 
son the baskets must be warm when they 
are dij)ped, also the skimmer. You must 
not leave the candy on the fire after it hegins 
to change color, but the work of coating the 
baskets had better be done quite near the 
fire, with the pot containing the candy on 
some part of it where it will be kept hot. 



276 CHOICE COOKERY. 

but not cook. They must be slipped on to 
an oiled dish, and, needless to say, most care- 
fully handled. 

Other baskets are made with nougat, oth- 
ers with pastry, and the Swiss make what 
they call Yacheriri with almond paste, and 
serv^e whipped cream in them ; but the idea 
may be extended and improved upon by 
serving dried fruits or candies, or ice-cream 
in them, and they are a decided improve- 
ment on the paper baskets so often used for 
the last purpose, being eatable. 

Siviss Vacherin. — Take half a pound of 
almond paste, three quarters of a pound of 
confectioners' sugar, and the white of one 
egg. Shave the almond paste, stir the egg 
and sugar together, and flavor with a little 
orange-flower water or wine; work all to- 
gether with the hand into a smooth, stiff 
paste that will roll out ; if there is a disposi- 
tion to crack or crumble, use more white of 
egg and almond paste. !Roll it just as you 
would pie crust on the pastry board, using 



MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 377 

confectioners' sugar in place of flour. Line 
small cups or tartlet moulds, or anything 
that will make a good form for baskets, 
which have been very slightly oiled. Put 
them aside to harden and dry. Chop a 
tablespoonful of blanched pistachio-nuts till 
they are as fine as corn-meal, mix with an 
equal quantity of granulated sugar. Trim 
the edges of the cups or baskets w^ith scis- 
sors, turn them out of the moulds, very care- 
fully dip the edges in a saucer containing 
white of egg beaten to liquid — the edges 
only need to be just wet. Have the chopped 
pistachio-nuts and sugar also in a saucer, dip 
the wet edge of the cup lightly into it, and 
shake gently. If properly done, the cups 
will now have a pretty green border. When 
these are filled with whipped cream, sweet- 
ened, flavored, and colored, they are called 
Swiss Vacher in. Filled with plain whipped 
cream, and the top covered with strawber- 
ries, they are called " Chantilly cups," but 
they may be used in many decorative ways. 



278 CHOICE COOKERY. 

to hold preserves or candied fruits, etc., 
etc. 

Little China Dishes. — This quaint recipe 
is from the immortal Mrs. Glasse, and on 
trial was found so unique and agreeable a 
variety to our modern fancies that with some 
little changes to suit our present ideas I give 
the last -century dainty. If you have any 
pretty-shaped little tin dishes, without flut- 
ing, to mould and bake them in, they are 
very little trouble to make. Take the yolks 
of two eggs, two small tablespoonfuls of 
sherry, and one of rose-water, beat together 
only enough to mix, then use as much fine 
flour as will make a firm paste that can be 
rolled out exceedingly thin. Cover some 
nicely shaped little tins slightly buttered,, 
press to the form, be careful the paste fits 
without creases, and bake in a cool oven. 
When the paste is crisp, with very little 
change of color, they are done. Do not 
touch them till they are cold, as they may 
be brittle. Stir the white of an egg with a 



MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 279 

tablespoonful of rose-water and confection- 
ers' sugar enough to make a smooth icing; 
squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and 
when the little dishes are cold, ice the under 
side only just thick enough to mask the 
pastry ; when they are dry and hard, turn 
them over and ice the inside ; do this with 
great smoothness, to look as much like por- 
celain as possible. If you choose, when the 
icing is quite hard, you can w^et the edge of 
the dishes with w^hite of egg and dip tliem 
in chopped pistachio-nuts and sugar, like the 
Chantilly baskets, or in nonpareils (the small- 
est size). They may be used to serve any- 
thing sweet, from jelly to candies. 

Almond Trifles. — With the almond paste 
used for Chantilly cups many trifles may 
be made with very little trouble ; for in- 
stance, mix a tablespoonful of flour with 
the paste ; roll it out ; cut into circles ; pinch 
up two sides ; place a little handle over the 
centre, and in each open end, which must be 
bent slightly upward, place a candied cherry. 



280 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Or cut a number of thin strips of paste, stick 
them together in the middle with white of 
egg, pass a strip of almond paste round so 
that the strips look like fagots of sticks, let 
them just color in the oven, sift sugar over 
them, and put them away. The paste may 
be rolled as thick as a pipe-stem and tied in 
knots, the surface just moistened, and sugar 
sifted over them; these also must only just 
take color in the oven. These are only sug- 
gestions for using up the trimmings from 
the cups. 



XXXI. 

MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS.— Con^mw^d 

Baspberry Charlotte Btisse. — The simplest 
and quite the most effective way of making 
charlottes of any kind is the following : Take 
a strip of light cartridge or drawing paper 
from two to three inches wide, measure it 
round a mould the size you wish the char- 
lotte to be, and cut it an inch larger ; piece 
the two ends together, lapping an inch. 
Lay this paper circle on an ornamental dish 
(the one you wish to use), split lady-fingers, 
and stand them around it inside like a picket- 
fence, only as close together as they will go, 
inserting a pin from the outside through 
the paper and each cake as you do it. When 
you have lined the paper completely you will 
have a close frame of lady -fingers held in 
place by pins. Whip a pint of perfectly sweet 



282 CHOICE COOKERY. 

cream that is at least twenty-four hours old 
and has been thoroughly chilled on ice. 
Sweeten the cream with two tablespoonfuls 
of powdered sugar, and flavor it with a table- 
spoonful of raspberry ^'?^^c^ (not syrup) mixed 
with a tablespoonful of powdered sugar; 
sometimes the raspberry juice will color the 
cream a beautiful faint pink, w^hich cannot 
be improved upon, but if ' it is not bright 
enough in tint stir in one or two drops of 
cochineal. If the weather is w^arm stand 
the vessel containing the cream in ice ; then 
beat without stopping to skim the froth as 
it rises. In about ten to fifteen minutes the 
cream ought to be perfectly solid if all the 
conditions were observed, and the beating 
carried on in a cool, airy room. If, how- 
ever, the cream is not solid enough to keep 
shape, set it on ice for an hour and beat 
again. Fill the centre of the frame of lady- 
fingers, piling it high ; decorate either with 
chopped pistachio-nuts lightly sprinkled, or 
with rings of angelica. The rasipberry juice 



MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 283 

used for flavoring is to be obtained at first- 
class druggists', where the best quality of 
soda-water is sold. It is unsweetened, and 
although I have kept it two or three months 
in cool weather, it often will not keep many 
weeks ; it is therefore better to buy it by the 
gill or half-pint, if your druggist will sell it 
so, than to buy a large bottle, although it is 
so useful for making raspberry jelly, rasp- 
berry shrub, and many other things, that 
even a bottle is not likely to be w^asted. It 
must not be confused with raspberry syrmp, 
which is heavily sweetened, but not nearly 
so fragrant. Before serving the charlotte 
remove the pins and take the paper off. 

Charlotte liiisse with Gelatine. — Prepare a 
frame as in last recipe, also beat a pint of 
cream sweetened and flavored with wine or 
to taste ; melt in a pint of milk half an ounce 
of gelatine. The French gelatine is very 
pure, easy to melt, and no more expensive 
than any other good kind, and for delicate 
uses preferable to them. Make the gela- 



284 CHOICE COOKEEY. 

tine and milk into a custard with two eggs, 
sweeten with two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
flavor to taste, and put to get cold, stirring 
it once in a while ; when it begins to thicken 
round the sides of the vessel beat with the 
egg-beater till foamy. You have now a ves- 
sel of whipped custard and one of whipped 
cream, both cold ; now mix the cream into 
the custard, a little at a time, giving the 
spoon a light upward movement ; do not stir 
it ; that deadens the cream ; your object is 
to keep it light; when all is mixed, fill the 
frame of cake with the spongy mixture ; dec- 
orate it either with drops and pipings of the 
mixture applied to the smooth surface, or 
with candied fruits cut into forms or various 
colored jellies. 

Of course a charlotte russe can be varied 
in many ways. It may be filled with the 
custard made with chocolate, and so be brown 
charlotte, or the filhng may have apricot or 
currant jelly whipped into it with the gela- 
tine ; this is an admirable change. 



MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 285 

Almond Turban. — Make half a pound of 
fine puff -paste, give it nine turns, roll it the 
last time to the thickness of a dollar ; have 
ready half a pound of almonds, blanched 
and chopped ; put them in a bowl with half 
a pound of powdered sugar and the whites 
of two eggs, adding a very little more if the 
icing is too stiff to spread; spread the al- 
mond icing on the pastry as thick as a twen- 
ty-five-cent piece ; with a sharp knife cut the 
pastry into strips two and a half inches long 
and one in breadth ; bake these in a mod- 
erate oven a very pale brown ; make a cir- 
cle on a dish of some firm marmalade or 
jam ; when the almond cakes are cold, dress 
them in a crown on the jam, which serves to 
keep them in place; fill the centre of the 
turban with vanilla ice - cream or simple 
whipped cream. 

Fi7ie Small Calces for Dessert. — It may not 
be worth the while of a busy housekeeper 
within reach of a first-class confectioner's to 
make these, because, although when of fine 



286 CHOICE COOKERY. 

quality they are always expensive, yet they 
are also tedious to make. Man}^, however, 
live in country towns, where there is no pos- 
sibility of obtaining anything better than the 
sandy products of the country bakery. 

A few really fine cakes can be made at a 
time, and kept in an air-tight box, with lay- 
ers of paper between, for some time. In 
speaking, however, of the tediousness I would 
not discourage the reader, for there are few 
more tedious things in cooking than the roll- 
ing out, making, and baking of thin cookies 
or ginger-snaps, and the result attained so 
inadequate. 

Bout Biscuits. — Boil a pound of sugar in 
half a pint of milk ; grate into it the rind of 
a lemon w^hen cold ; rub half a pound of but- 
ter into a pound and a half of flour and a 
pound of almond paste grated fine ; put as 
much carbonate of soda as would lie on a 
silver dime into the milk, and mix with the 
flour and almond paste ; beat two eggs, and 
make the whole into a firm, smooth paste ; 



MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 287 

print this paste with very small butter moulds 
if you have them, making little cakes just 
like the tiny pats of butter one gets at city 
restaurants. Bake on a well-buttered pan in 
a quick oven a very pale yellow. 

Macaroons. — These must be exempted from 
the charge of being tedious, they are so easily 
and quickly made. One pound of almond 
paste grated, one pound and a half of sugar, 
and the whites of seven eggs. Some confec- 
tioners use a teaspoonful of flour, with the 
idea that the macaroons are not so apt to 
fall. I recommend a trial of both methods ; 
they will both be good. Stir the sugar and 
the beaten white of eggs together just enough 
to mix, then by degrees add the grated paste, 
mashing with the back of a fork till it forms 
a perfectly smooth paste. Oil several sheets 
of paper cut to the size of your baking-pans. 
Dripping-pans may be used if you have no 
regular baking-sheets. Lay a sheet of paper 
at the bottom of the pan. Put half a tea- 
spoonful of the macaroon paste on a scrap of 



288 CHOICE COOKERY. 

buttered paper in the oven. If it spreads 
too much it requires a very little more sugar ; 
if it does not spread at all, or so little as to 
leave the surface rough, it is too stiff, and 
requires perhaps half the white of an ^gg^ or 
the finger dipped in water and laid on each 
macaroon after they are on the paper is often 
sufficient — a little practice is all that is nec- 
essary. Lay the paste in half-teaspoonfuls 
on the oiled or greased paper. If the trial 
one indicated that they were slightly too 
stiff, lay a wet finger on each, sift powdered 
sugar over, and then put a pinch of chopped 
and blanched almonds in the centre with just 
enough pressure to keep them in place. As 
the macaroon spreads in the oven the al- 
monds scatter themselves. 

Macaroons should be baked about twenty 
minutes in a moderate oven. They must be 
taken out while they are a very pale brown, 
but they must also be quite " set," or they 
will fall. If the oven is too quick they AviU 
brown too soon ; in that case leave the oven 



MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 289 

door open, taking care that no cold draught 
can blow on the macaroons. You can tell 
if .they have browned too quickly by the 
cracks in them being still white and sticky. 
When done both the cracks and surface 
should be the same pale color. The maca- 
roons must be left five minutes in the pan 
after leaving the oven without being touched. 
At the end of that time they may be gently 
taken off the pans on the papers, from which 
they must not be detached until they are 
quite cold. Should they stick to the paper, 
moisten the back of it. 

Fine Ginger Dessert Cakes. — Rub half a 
pound of fresh butter into three quarters of 
a pound of flour ; beat three eggs with three 
quarters of a pound of powdered sugar and 
half a glass of rose water, the grated peel of 
a lemon, and a teaspoonful of the best pow- 
dered ginger — use the ginger carefully, try- 
ing* a level spoonful first. Then mix all into 
a paste. If the flavor of ginger is not strong 
enough, add more ; they should taste w^ell of 
19 



290 CHOICE COOKEEr. 

it, without being hot in the mouth. Koll 
the paste a quarter of an inch thick, and cut 
into small oval or round cakes, sift powdered 
sugar over them, and bake rather slo^vlj a 
very pale brown. 



XXXII. 

FINE CAKES AND SAUCES. 

Madeleines. — Four ounces of butter, four 
ounces of the best flour, three ounces of 
sugar, a teaspoonf ul of orange-flower water, 
the yolks of four eggs, and rind of a lemon. 
Beat butter, sugar, and yolks of eggs to- 
gether, then add the other ingredients ; grate 
in the rind of half a lemon, and add the well- 
beaten whites of eggs last of all. Fill little 
moulds that have been buttered with washed 
butter, cover the tops with split almonds and 
sifted sugar ; bake from thirty to forty min- 
utes in a moderate oven. These cakes are 
sometimes served hot with apricot sauce. 

Chestnut Croquettes. — Boil fifty sound chest- 
nuts ; take them out of the shells ; reject all 
imperfect ones ; keep the large pieces aside ; 
pound the crumbs and most broken pieces 



292 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Avith an ounce of butter till very smooth ; 
then mix in a small cup of cream two ounces 
of butter and one ounce of powdered sugar ; 
put the whole into a double boiler, and stir 
in the beaten volks of six eo^o^s. Let the 
mixture set. When cool, make it into balls ; 
in the centre of each ball put a piece of the 
chestnut you have laid aside, dip the balls in 
fine cracker meal and eggs, and fry a very 
pale yellow. Serve with sifted sugar. 

Yery pretty cakes, very easily made, wdiich 
come under the French t^rm. petits fours^vci3ij 
be given here. 

Petits Fours. — Make rich cake mixture 
thus : Wash three quarters of a pound of 
butter to free it from excess of salt ; squeeze 
it dry in a cloth ; beat it with the hand till 
creamy ; add three quarters of a pound of 
powdered sugar ; beat till light ; then beat 
in ten eggs, one by one, and sift in a pound 
of dried and sifted flour. When all are w^ell 
beaten together, the paste or batter is ready 
for use. Line some shallow pans (those used 



FINE CAKES AND SAUCES. 293 

for making rolled jelly-cake are best) with 
buttered paper ; spread a layer of the mixt- 
ure just as you would for jelly-cake, but much 
thicker, as when baked the sheets should not 
be more than the third of an inch thick. 
Bake slowly. When done, remove from the 
oven, but leave the cake undisturbed till cold. 
If the sheets are large, they may be cut ex- 
actly in half, spread thinly with some stiff 
marmalade or jelly ; quince or apricot is best, 
but any rich flavor with some tartness will 
do; lay one half on the other, and press 
closely and very neatly together. Do each 
sheet of cake in the same way, varying the 
marmalade if you choose. Have ready a 
bowl of icing (either boiled French icing or 
what is called royal icing). Dust the top of 
the cakes with flour, which must be brushed 
off again, as it is only to absorb the grease. 
Flavor the icing with vanilla, and lay it on 
the centre of the cake ; let it run over it, aid- 
ing with a knife dipped in water (shaking 
off the drops, however). The icing needs to 



294 CHOICE COOKERY. 

be very neatly done, and must not be thicker 
than a twenty-iive-cent piece. Kow color 
the icing in the bowl pink, with a little cochi- 
neal, add a drop or two of extract of bitter 
almond or of lemon, either of w^hich will 
agree with the vanilla that was in the white 
icing ; then ice another sheet of cake in the 
same way ; a third may be done with choco- 
late icing. 

The beauty of these cakes will depend on 
the way they are cut. You may choose to 
make them tablets an inch wide and three 
inches long, or in lozenge shape — the true 
diamond — but in either case the cutting must 
be exact. The best way to have it so is to 
mark the lines very lightly with the point 
of a penknife on the icing, using a measure. 
Trim off the edge of the cake with a sharp 
knife, so that it is neat all round, no excess 
of marmalade oozing out, or tears of icing 
running down. Then w^arm a sharp carving- 
knife (I am supposing the cake is on a board), 
and cut through the lines you have marked, 



FINE CAKES AND SAUCES. 295 

without hesitation, so that there may be no 
crumbs or roughness, which slow, over-care- 
ful cutting causes. When cut up you should 
have, if neatly done, an assortment of very 
delicious and ornamental cakes. 

FREXCH SWEET SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS, ETC. 

Sauce Madere d la Marmalade. — A half- 
pound of apricot marmalade ; half a tumbler 
of Madeira or sherry ; boil three minutes, 
then pass through a sieve, and serve as sauce 
to soi^fflees, cabinet puddings, etc. 

Sauce des (Eufs ait Kirsch. — Beat the yolks 
of eight eggs, put them in a saucepan with 
half a tumbler of kirsch, five ounces of pow- 
dered sugar, and half the rind of a lemon 
grated. Stir all in a double boiler till the 
mixture sticks to the spoon ; then remove 
from the boiling water ; stir for a minute to 
prevent curdling ; then it is ready to serve. 

Chaudeau Sauce. — Take two whole eggs, 
six yolks of eggs, and eight lumps of sugar 
(each one rubbed on lemon-peel), two pints 



296 CHOICE COOKEEY. 

of Chablis, and the juice of half a lemon; 
beat them over a slow fire in a double boiler 
till a light froth is formed ; be very careful 
the eggs do not curdle when the boiling- 
point is reached ; take the sauce off the 
fire, and continue beating for a minute or 
two. If small streaks appear on the froth 
the sauce is done. Stir in a tablespoon- 
f ul of fine rum, and the sauce is ready to 
serve. 

Sherry Sauce for Puddings. — Six yolks of 
eggs, one ounce of sugar, half a pint of sher- 
ry, and the thin peel of a lemon. Beat the 
eggs with the sugar ; when the wine is warm, 
stir them into it (let the lemon-peel steep in 
the* wine while warming) ; stir all together 
till as thick as cream ; then remove from the 
fire, and take out the peel. In making all 
these sauces with eggs the same precaution 
is required as in making custard. 

Wine Sauce, Iso. 2. — Three gills of water, 
one cup of sugar, one teaspoonful of corn- 
starch, and one gill of wine. Mix the corn- 



FINE CAKES AND SAUCES. 297 

starch with a little water ; pour the rest boil- 
ing to it, stirring till smooth ; then add the 
sugar, and boil for five minutes ; then add 
the wine and a few drops of essence of lemon 
and the same of cinnamon. Use these flavor- 
ings drop by drop, as they differ in strength 
too much for an exact quantity to be given, 
and the taste must be the guide. Eum or 
brandy may be used instead of wine ; then 
the cinnamon is omitted. 

Apricot Sauces. — Half a small jar of apri- 
cot jam or marmalade ; dissolve it in three 
quarters of a gill of water with the juice of 
a lemon ; stir in three quarters of a gill of 
rum. This sauce is simply made hot, not 
boiled, and may be served cold with Baba or 
Savarin cake. Greengage marmalade may 
be substituted. 

Whipped Sweet Sauce.- — Put the yolks of 
four eggs into a double saucepan with two 
ounces of sugar, one glass of sherry, the juice 
of one lemon, and a speck of salt ; beat all 
together ; then set the saucepan over the 



298 CHOICE COOKERY. 

fire, and whisk the sauce till it is a creamy 
froth, when it is ready to serve. 

Ve7'y Fine Sweet Butter Sauce. — Wash four 
ounces of butter ; squeeze it dry ; beat it to 
a hard sauce with half a pound of powdered 
sugar ; then put the yolks of two eggs in a 
cold bowl ; stir it a minute, then add to it a 
little of the hard sauce ; when well mixed 
add more, about a teaspoonful at a time ; 
when the hard sauce is blended with the 
yolks of eggs, stir in by degrees a wineglass 
of brandy or rum. Keep on ice till wanted. 

Vanilla Cream Sauce. — Put half a pint of 
fresh cream to boil, reserving a tablespoon- 
f ul ; mix this with a teaspoonful of flour ; 
stir it into the cream, with a tablespoonful 
of sugar, when near boiling ; when it boils, 
stir for five minutes or ten in a double boiler ; 
then pour out the sauce, and stir in a small 
teaspoonful of vanilla and a few drops of ex- 
tract of rose or a teaspoonful of rose-water. 
Observe that the rose is used to give a dif- 
ferent tone to the vanilla, and not to impart 



FINE CAKES AND SAUCES. 299 

its own flavor, therefore very little nrast be 
used. 

Almond Sauce. — Dissolve four ounces of 
almond paste in half a pint of sweet cream 
by stirring in a double boiler (the almond 
paste should be grated first) ; when both are 
hot, add a tablespoonful of sugar and the 
yolk of an ^g^ ; stir till the ^gg thickens, 
then remove from the fire and serve. 



XXXIII. 

SALADS AND CHEESE DISHES. 

Salad has come to form part of even the 
simplest dinners; and certainly cold meat 
and salad and excellent bread and butter 
make a meal by no means to be despised 
even by an epicure, while cold meat and 
bread and butter sound very untempting. 
The best dinner salad will perhaps always 
be white, crisp lettuce, with a simple French 
dressing, although, to those acquainted Avith 
it, escarole runs it hard, with its cool, watery 
ribs and crisp leaves. Elaborate salads, or 
those dressed with mayonnaise, are too heavy 
to form the latter part of an already suffi- 
ciently 'nourishing meal, but for luncheons 
and suppers the rich salad is invaluable. 

Salad which is to be eaten with game or 
to form a course at dinner may be a crisp 



SALADS AND CHEESE DISHES. 301 

white cabbage lettuce, water-cress, Roraaine 
lettuce, or that most delicious form of endive, 
escarole. 

The dressing should be the simple French 
dressing, about which so much has been writ- 
ten and said, and which is so easy that per- 
haps it is one reason why so few make it 
well. There is nothing to remember beyond 
the proportions, and so many keep the quan- 
tity of oil, vinegar, and pepper and salt in 
mind, but the manner of using them seems 
of no consequence ; but it is of so much con- 
sequence, if you do not want the vinegar on 
the leaves and the oil at the bottom of the 
salad bowl, that, well known as the formula 
is, I am going over it again with a few 
details that may help to hx the matter in 
mind. 

In the first place it must be remembered 
that a wet leaf will repel oil, therefore the 
lettuce or other salad must be well dried be- 
fore it is sent to table. This is best done 
by swinging it in a salad basket, and then 



302 CHOICE COOKERY. 

spreading it between two cloths for a few 
minutes. Now it must be quite evident, if a 
leaf wet with water will refuse to retain oil, 
that one wet with vinegar will do the same ; 
for this reason the leaves should be covered 
with oil hefore the vinegar is added, or the 
salad will be crude and very unlike what it 
should be if properl}^ mixed in the following 
way : 

Take lettuce as the example, although any 
of those mentioned are made in the same 
way. Have the lettuce dry in the salad 
bowl, put in the salad-spoon a saltspoonful 
of salt, a quarter one of pepper, and, hold- 
ing it over the bowl, fill the spoon with oil ; 
mix the salt and pepper well with it, and 
turn it over the salad ; toss the salad lightly 
over and over till the leaves glisten, then add 
two (if for epicures, three or four) more 
spoonfuls of oil, then toss again over and 
over till every leaf is well coated with oil ; 
then sprinkle in a saladspoonful of sharp 
vinegar. Toss again, and the salad is ready. 



SALADS AND CHEESE DISHES. oUd 

One salad less well known than it deserves 
to be is that made from the grape fruit. 
This is an especially grateful dish for spring 
breakfast, wdien cool, refreshing things are 
in order. Many tell me they have tried to 
eat grape fruit, but find it quite impossible 
on account of the intense bitter. 

There is a very slight and pleasant bitter 
with grape fruit when properly prepared, 
but if by carelessness or ignorance even a 
small portion of the pith is left in it intense 
bitter is imparted to the whole. 

Grape-fruit Salad, — Prepare the fruit, 
some hours before it is wanted, in the fol- 
lowing way: Cut the fruit in four as you 
would an orange; separate the sections; 
then remove the pulp from each, taking care 
that no white pith or skin adheres to it. 
Put the pulp on the ice until just before 
serving ; then dress with oil and vinegar ex- 
actly as directed for lettuce, etc. 

Meat or fish salads should always be dressed 
with mayonnaise. I say nothing of the Avell- 



304 



CHOICE COOKERY. 



known lobster and chicken salads, which are 
so general that one is tempted to think the 
majority of people do not know how ex- 
cellent some other combination salads are. 
Salmon salad — the fish flaked, laid on a bed 
of crisp lettuce with a border of the leaves, 
and masked with mayonnaise, with a gar- 
nish of aspic — is both handsome and deli- 
cious; but cold halibut, or even cod — any 
firm fish that flakes, in fact — make delight- 
ful salads, and acceptable to many who can- 
not eat lobster. In the way of meat salads, 
partridge or grouse are far daintier than 
chicken, prepared in just the same way. 
There is one point, however, which should 
be observed in making all meat salads : it is 
that the material should be well dressed with 
oil, vinegar, and condiments before the may- 
onnaise is put on. Usually one of two courses 
is followed : either the meat is left dry, the 
mayonnaise being supposed sufiicient, or it is 
dressed with mayonnaise and then masked 
with it. In the latter case the salad is far 



SALADS AND CHEESE DISHES. 



305 



too rich; in the former it is flat, because 
mayonnaise, if rightl}^ made, has not acidity 
enough to flavor the meat ; therefore it and 
the celery or other salad mixed with it should 
be bathed with French dressing before it is 
masked. 

With these general rules any salad may be 
made ; but as variety is the spice of the ta- 
ble, it may be borne in mind that in spring 
a sprig of mint, very finely chopped, gives a 
fragrance to lettuce, as does chervil or borage, 
parsley, or a tiny bit of onion. To a game 
salad nothing should be added. 

JS^o recipe is needed for mayonnaise, it hav- 
ing been given in the chapter on cold sauces. 

In the course of these chapters several 
cheese dishes have been given, but there are 
a few others especially appropriate to the 
cheese and salad course, where it constitutes 
part of the dinner, which I will include. 
Cheese dishes are far less popular in this 
country than in Europe, but there are fami- 
lies whose masculine members eat no sweets, 
20 ■ 



306 



CHOICE COOKEEY. 



and for whom a dainty cheese dish would be 
very acceptable. 

Genoa Ramaquin. — Cut a slice of Vienna 
or other baker's bread, half an inch thick, 
lengthwise of the loaf, so that it covers the 
bottom of a fire-proof dish — a souffle pan 
well buttered is excellent; beat two eggs 
and half a pint of milk together ; add a level 
saltspoonful of salt; pour this custard over 
the bread, and leave it an hour to soak. 
Pour off any custard that may not be ab- 
sorbed; dust the bread with pepper; then 
cover with the following mixture : dissolve 
as much rich cheese shaved in half a gill of 
cream as will cover the bread an inch thick, 
stirring it over a slow fire. Season with pep- 
per and salt, and pour the cheese over the 
bread. Put it in the oven, and bake for half 
an hour, or till quite brown. 

Cheese Puffs. — Line patty-pans Avith puff- 
paste, and fill three parts full with the fol- 
lowing mixture : put a gill of cream in a 
double boiler w^ith two ounces of grated 



SALADS AND CHEESE DISHES. ^07 

cheese (half Parmesan if liked), a saltspoon- 
ful of salt, a pinch of pepper, a pinch of 
sugar, and a large teaspoonful of butter; 
when all is melted to a thick custard, break 
into it two eggs well whipped. The mixt- 
ure is only to be made hot enough to melt 
the cheese, not to boil. 

Cheese Sticks. — Take a piece of light bread 
dough about the size of a teacup, roll it out 
on a pastry -board, spread it with bits of firm 
butter, dredge with flour, fold and roll, re- 
peat until you have rolled in two ounces of 
butter, just as for puff-paste ; now roll the 
pastry out the third of an inch thick, cut 
into strips half an inch wide and any length 
you think proper, lay them very straight on 
a baking-sheet, and bake slowly a ve7'y light 
brown ; remove from the oven, let them cool, 
then brush them over with white of Qg^^ and 
roll them thickly in grated Parmesan ; return 
for a minute or two to the oven. These are 
very good with salad, but cannot easily be 
made in warm weather. Should the pastry 



308 CHOICE COOKERY. 

get too soft while rolling, put it on ice, and 
it is better to do so at all times before cut- 
ting into strips, so that the " sticks " may be 
quite straight. 



INDEX. 



Allemande Sauce, 18. 

Almond Cream, 229, 251: Sauce, 

299; Trirtes, 279; Turban, 

285 ; Water-ice, 255. 
Apple Jellv, 212 ; Compote, 2G3- 

265. 
Apricot Sauces, 297; Water-ices, 

25G. 
Artichokes, Fried, 198. 
Aspic, Jelh'', 195; Lobster in, 

79 ; INIayonnaise, 47 ; Oysters 

in, 76; Eeed-birds in, 159. 

Ballotines, 177. 
Bearnaise Sauce, 26. 
Bechamel Sauce, 17, 159. 
Beef, Fillets of, 86-89. 
I>eet-root Fritters, 198. 
Birds, how to bone, 172-175; 

how to stuff, 175. 
Biscuits, Rout, 286. 
Bouchees, 124. 
Bouquet of herbs, 37. 

Cabinet Pudding, 233, 239. 
Cakes, Dessert, 285, 289. 
Cakes and Sauces, fine, 291-295. 

Chestnut Croquettes, 291. 

Madeleines, 291. 

Petits Fours, 292. 



Caudied Orange and Lemon 

Peels, 260, 261. 
Caper Sauce, 29. 
Cardinal Sauce, 30. 
Cauliflower Fritters, 198. 
Celery Sauce, 29. 
Charlotte Russe, 281-283. 
Chateaubriand Sauce. 34. 
Chaudfroid Sauce, 160. 
Chaudfroids. (See Entrees.) 
Cheese Dishes, 306-308. 

Genoa Ramaquin, 306. 

Puffs, 306. 

Sticks, 307. 
Chestnut Soup, 57; Croquettes, 

291. 
Chicken, a, la Hollandaise, 114. 

And Ham Cutlets, 157. 

Chaudfroids of, 156. 

Fritotof, 132. 

Patties, 121. 

Salad, 154. 

Scallops, 130. 

Tartlets, 114. 

Timbaleof, 129. 

Turtle fashion, 136. 
Chocolate Cream Pudding, 245. 
Choice Cookery explained, 1-3. 
Chops, Lamb and Mutton, 98- 
103. 



310 



INDEX. 



Cigarettes, 108, 135, 136. 
Cinnamon, care in' selecting, 

216: Water-ice, 255. 
Claret Granito, 258; Jellv, 215. 
Co(i, Fillets of, 62. 
Cold Game Pies, 183-190. 
Compote of Apples, 263-265 ; of 
Cherries, 272; of Chestnuts, 
269, 270; of Oranges, 269; 
of Pears, 266, 268; of Pig- 
eons, 145; of Strawberries, 
272. 
Consomme', 51-55. 
Coqtiilles, 63, 64. 
Creams, 223-230, 235-237. 
Almond Cream, 229. 
Bohemian Jellv Creams, 

237. 
Cocoannt Cream, 235. 
Coffee Cream, 226. 
Cura^oa Cream, 226. 
Ginger Cream, 224. 
Hazel-nut Cream, 236. 
Here and in Europe, 223. 
Neapolitan Cream, 224. 
Nut Creams, 235. 
Pistache Cream, 229. 
Strawberry Cream. 227. 
Vanilla Cream, 227. 
Walnut or Hickory -nut 

Cream, 237. 
Whipped Cream, 213, 214. 
Croquettes, Chestnut, 291 : man- 
ner of preparing, 107. 
Cucumber, Fillets of, 99 ; Fillets 
of Kabbit with, 150; Sauce, 
29,48; Stuffed, 199. 
Culinary matters, 79-85. 
Cura^oa, 258. 
Currant Water-ice, 256. 
Currants, how to cook, 271. 



Cutlets, how to prepare, 107. 
Chicken and Ham, 157. 
Lamb, 99, 100. 
Mutton, 90, 98. 
Pigeon, 143. 
Kussian Salad for, 101. 
Sweetbread, 109. 
Veal, 139. 

Decorations, uneatable, 196. 
Dessert, Small Cakes for, 285. 
Down ton Sauce. 39. 
Dresden Patty Cases, 118. 

Entrees, 86-106, 129-152, 153- 
171. 

A Civet, 150. 

Baked Kavioli, 137. 

Cold Lamb Cutlets in Mint 
Jelly, 100. 

Chicken Souffle, 131. 

Chicken, Turtle fashion, 136. 

Cigarettes a la Chasseur,135. 

Cigarettes a la Eeine, 134. 

Cutlets Chaudfroid a la 
Russe, 102. 

Filets de Boeuf h la Ecar- 
naise, 87. 

Filets de Boeuf aux Cham- 
pignons, 87. 

Fillet of Beef, 86. 

Fillets of Beef a la Grande- 
Bretagne, 89. 

Fillets of Cucumber, 99. 
. Fillets of Rabbit with Cu- 
cumber, 150. 

Fillets of Teal with Ancho- 
vies, 148. 

Fritot of Chicken, 132. 

Grenadines of Beef with 
Mushrooms and Poivrade 
Sauce, 88. 



INDEX. 



311 



Entrees — Continued. 

Grenadines of Kabbit a la 

Soubise, 149. 
Lannb Cutlets en Coucombre. 

99. 
Lamb Cutlets with a Puree 

of Mushrooms, 100. 
Lobster Quenelles, 136. 
Mutton Cutlets a la d'Uxel- 

les, 90. 
Mutton Cutlets a la Mila- 
■ naise, 90. 
Mutton Cutlets, or Chops, 

98. 
Pigeon Cutlets, 143, 
Pigeons a la Tart are, 144. 
Quails a la Jubilee, 141, 
Quails a la LucuUus, 140. 
Salmis of Snipe, 147. 
Scallops of Chicken a la 

Perigord, 130. 
Souffle of Partridges, 14G. 
Sweetbreads a la Supreme, 

103. 
Sweetbreads in Cases, 106. 
Sweetbreads with Ovster.-!, 

104. 
Timbale of Chicken a la 

Champenois, 129. 
Timbales d'^^pinard, 151. 
Veal Cutlets a la Primrose, 

139. 
Entrees, Cold, or Chaudfroids, 

153-171. 
AUumettes, 170. 
Canapes a la Bismarck, 

165. 
Caviare Canapes, 166. 
Chaudfroid of Reed-birds, 

160. 
Chaudfroids of Chicken, 156, 



Entrees, Cold — Continued. 

Cheese Biscuits k la St. 

James, 168, 
Chicken and Ham Cutlets, 

157. 
Chicken Salad a la Prince, 

154. 
Cold Cheese Souffles, 169. 
Croiltes de Fromage Glace, 

169. 
Eggs a la St. James, 170. 
Iced Savory Souffle, 162. 
Kluskis of Cream Cheese, 

168. 
Ovsters a la St. George, 

^169. 
Prawns en Surprise, 166. 
Prince of Wales Canapes, 

167. 
Reed-birds in Aspic, 159, 
Savage Club Canapes, 164. 
Savories, 162-164, 
Shrimp Canapes, 168, 
Sweetbread au Montpellier, 

153, 
Entrees, Fish, 61-70. 

Coquilles of Prawns, 63. 
Coquilles of Salmon or Hali- 
but, 64. 
Fillet of Flounders, 69, 
Fillet of Sole a la Nor- 

raande, 65. 
Fillets of Cod a la Nor- 

mande, 62, 
Lobster in Aspic, 79. 
Lobster Soufflees, 62. 
Salmon en Papillotes, 65. 
Sole a I'Horly, 66. 
Turbans of Sole a la Rouen- 

naise, 67, 
Espagnole Sauce, 33, 



312 



INDEX. 



Fillet, how to, 181, 182. 
Fillets of Rabbits, 150. 
Flavorings and Liqueurs, 210- 

212. 
Flounders, Fillet of, 69. 
Fritters, 198. 

Fruits, Macedoine of, 222. 
Frying, directions for, 91-95. 

Galantines, 172-177. 

Of Breast of Veal, 178. 

Of Sucking Pig, 179. 
Game Pie, 183. 

English manner of making, 
in a crust, 189, 190. 

Filling the case of, 186. 

French method of making, 
185. 
Game, Salad to eat with, 300. 
Garnishes, 191-198. 

Colored Custard, 192. 

Profiterolles, 194. 

Spinach Juice, 192. 

Stuffed Artichokes. 197. 
Gelatine, 196; right jiroportion 

for jelly, 217. 
Ginger Cream, 224: Dessert 

Cakes, 289 ; Water-ice, 253. 
Glaze, 8 ; how to preserve, 10. 
Graniti, 257, 258. 

Claret Granito, 258. 

Sherry Granito, 258. 

To freeze, 257. 
Grape-fruit Salad, 303. 
Grenadines of Rabbit, 149. 

Ham, Puree of, 152. 

Herbs, French, 12; how to 

chop, 81 ; what required, 

12. 
Horseradish Sauce. 48. 



Ice-creams and Ices, 246-256. 

Almond Water-ice. 255. 

Apricot Water-ice, 256. 

Chinese Ice, 252. 

Cinnamon Water-ice, 255= 

Currant Water-ice, 256. 

Custard for Ice-cream, 249. 

Fruit Jam and Jellies with 
Ice-cream, 250. 

Ginger Water-ice, 253. 

Grilled Almond Ice-cream, 
251. 

Ice-cream with Eggs, 249. 

Pineapple Water-ice, 254. 

Pistachio Water-ice, 255. 

Simplest Fruit Ice-cream, 
246. 

Tea Ice-cream, 252. 

Tutti-frutti Ice-cream, 248. 
Ice Pudding, 240, 241. 
Iced Custard with Fruit, 244. 
Iced Puddings, 238, 239, 241, 
243. 

Jellies, 208-225. 

Aspic Jelly, 195. 

Consistency of Jelly, 214. 

Jellied Raspberries, 221. 

Jellv with Candied Fruits, 
220. 

Jellv with Fresh Fruits, 
218. 

Mint Jellv, 49. 

Mould of Apple Jellv, 212. 

Plain Claret Jelly, 215. 

Right proportions of Gela- 
tine for Jelly, 217. 

Roman Punch Jellies, 222. 

Kabobs, Oyster, 72-74. 
Kromeskies, 107. 



INDEX. 



313 



Lamb Cutlets, 99, 100. 

Lemon Baskets, 274; Peels, 
Candied, 261. 

Lemons, how to grate, 82. 

Liqueurs and Flavorings, 210- 
212. 

Lobster, in Aspic, 79 ; Que- 
nelles, 136; Sauce, 29; Souf- 
flces, 62. 

Macaroons, 287. 
Macedoine of Fruits, 222. 
Madeleines, 291. 
Maraschino, 259. 
Matelote Sauce, 40. 
Mayonnaise, 43, 46, 47. 
IMeal, quantity to be used, 75, 
Meringue Paste, 251. 
Mint Jelly, 49. 
IMother Sauces, 0. 
Mushroom Baskets, 201, 
Mushroom Jelly, 200. 
Mushrooms and Tomatoes, 200. 
INIushrooms, Stuffed, 200. 
Mutton Cutlets, 90, 98. 

Neapolitan Cream, 224, 
Norwegian Sauce, 47. 
Nut Creams, 229, 235-237. 

Onion, Spanish, 202-204. 
Orange Baskets, 272, 274. 
Orange Compote, 269. 
Orange Sauce, 39. 
Oyster Kabobs, 72, 74 ; Sauce, 29. 
Oysters, 71-78. 

A la Tairtare, 78. 

A la Villeroi, 71. 

In Aspic, 76. 

Various wavs. of serving, 
71-78. 



Papillotes, 65. 
Parsley Sauce, 29. 
Partridges, Souffle of, 146. 
Patties, 116-124. 

Chicken, 121. 

Dresden Cases for, 118. 

Oyster, 121. 

Sweetbread, 120, 
I'ears, a la Princesse, 267 ; Com- 
pote of, 265, 266, 268. 
Petits Fours, 292. 
Pies, Game, 183-190, 
Pigeon Cutlets, 143. 
Pigeons, a la Tartare, 144; 

Compote of, 145, 
Pineapple Water-ice, 251. 
Piquante Sauce, 35. 
Pistache Cream, 229. 
Pistachio Water-ice, 255. 
Poivrade Sauce, 36. 
Potage, a la Hollandaise, 56; a 

la Koyale, 59. 
Potatoes, a la Proven^ale, 204 ; 
Milanese, 205; Scalloped, 205. 
Poulette Sauce, 20. 
Prawns, Coquilles of, 63. 
Princess Soup, 58. 
ProfiteroUes, 194. 
Puddings, 230-234, 238-246. 

Bombay Ice Pudding, 241. 

Chocolate Cream Pudding, 
245. 

Cold Cabinet Pudding, 233. 

Cold Souffle Pudding, 231. 

Diplomatic Pudding, 232. 

Filbert and Wine Iced Pud- 
ding, 243. 

Frangipanni Iced Pudding, 
238. 

Frozen Pudding, 235. 

Ice Pudding, 240, 



314 



INDEX. 



I'uddings —Continued. 

Iced Cabinet Piiclding, 239. 

Iced Custard with Fruit, 244. 

Iced Jelly Pudding, 241. 

Iced Puddings, 243. 

Imperial Kice Pudding, 231. 

Jubilee Pudding, 230. 

Rice a la Princesse, 245. 

Sauces for, 295-299. 
Puffs, Ciieese, 300. 
Puree of Ham, 152. 

Quenelles for entrees, 125-129; 
for soups, 53, 54. 

Ptabbit, Grenadines of, 149 ; Fil- 
lets of, 150. 

Rabbits, 148. 

Raspberries, how to cook, 271 ; 
Jellied, 221. 

Ratafia, 259. 

Ravioli, Baked, 137. 

Red Mayonnaise, 46. 

Reed-birds, Chaudfroids of, 160; 
in Aspic, 159. 

Rice Pudding, 231. 

Rissoles, 108. 

Robert Sauce, 38. 

Roman Punch Jellies, 222. 

Rout Biscuits, 286. 

Russian Salad for Cutlets, 101. 

Salads, 300-305. 

Best dinner, 300. 

For Cutlets, 100. 

Grape-fruit, 303. 

How to dress, 301, 302. 

To eat with game, 300. 
Salmis.of Snipe, 147. 
Salmon, Coquilles of, 04 ; en 
Papillotes, 65. 



Sauces, 11-22; 23-32; 33-41; 
42-50. 
A la d'Uxelles, 20. 
A la Normande, 38. 
Alleraande, 18. 
Almond, 299. 
Apricot, 297. 
Aspic Maj'onnaise, 47. 
Bearnaise, 26. 
Bechamel, 17, 159. 
Blonde, or White, 13-32. 
Bordelaise, 37. 
Brown, 33-41. 
Caper, 29. 
Cardinal, 30. 
Celery, 29. 
Chateaubriand, 34. 
Chaudfroid, 160, 161. 
Cold Cucumber, 48. 
Cold Sauces, 42-50. 
Consistency of, 24, 105. 
Cucumber, 29. 
Dcs a:ufs au Kirsch, 295. 
Downton, 39. 
Espagnole, 33. 
Green Mayonnaise, 46. 
Hollandaise, 30. 
Horseradish, 48. 
How to stir, 17. 
Light Normande. 39. 
Lobster, 29. 

INIadere a la Marmalade, 295. 
INIatclote, 40. 
Mayonnaise, 43, 46, 47. 
Mint, 49. 
Mother Sauces, 6. 
Norwegian, 47. 
Orange, 39. 
Oyster, 29. 
Parsley, 29. 
Piquante, 35. 



INDEX. 



315 



Saucea—Continued. 

Poivrade, 36. 

Poulette, 20. 

Red Mayonnaise, 4G. 

Robert, 38. 

Rule for seasoning, 18. 

Sherry, 29G. 

Shrimp, 29, 30. 

Soubise, 27. 

Ste. Menehould, 25. 

Supreme, 23. 

Sweet Butter, very fine, 298. 

Sweet, French, for Pud- 
dings, 295-299. 

Tartare, 48. 

"Vanilla Cream, 298. 

Veloute, or White, 14. 

Villeroi, 21. 

Wine, 296. 

Whipped Sweet, 297. 

White, 23-32. 
Sauteing, 95, 96. 
Scalloped Potatoes, 205. 
Scallops of Chicken, 130. 
Sherry Granito, 258 ; Sauce, 296. 
Shrimp Sauce, 29, 30. 
Sole, h. I'Horly, GG] k la Nor- 

mande, 65 ; Kouennaise, 67. 
Soubise Sauce, 27 ; with Gren- 
adines of Rabbit, 149. 
Souffle of Chicken, 131; of 
Lobster, 62; of Partridges, 
146; of Tomato, 206. 
Soups, 51-60. 

Chestnut, 57. 

Consomme a la Rachel, 52. 

Consomme a la S6vigne, 55. 

Potage a la Hollandaise, 56. 

Potage a la Royalo, 59. 

Princess, 58. 

To clear Consomme, 51. 



Spanish Onion, 204. 
Spices and herbs required, 12. 
Spinach Fritters,206; Juice, 192. 
Ste. Menehould Sauce, 25. 
Stock, 7 ; to reduce to Glaze, 8. 
Strawberries, how to cook, 271 ; 

Compote of, 272. 
Strawberry Cream, 227. 
Stuffed Artichokes, 197; Cu- 
cumbers, 199. 
Sucking Pig, Ballotines of, 179. 
Supreme Sauce, 23. 
Sweet Sauce for Puddings, 295- 

299. 
Sweetbreads, a la Supreme, 
103; ail Montpellier, 153 
braised, 113; Cutlets of, 109 
in Cases, 106; Patties, 120 
with Oysters, 104. 
Sweets, 262-280. 

Almond Trifles, 270. 
Almond Turban, 285. 
Charlotte Russc with Gela- 
tine, 283. 
Compote of Apple Marma- 
lade, 265. 
Compote of Apples or Pears 

Grille, 265. 
Compote of Cherries, 272. 
Compote of Oranges, 269. 
Compote of Pears, 266. 
Compote of Strawberries, 

272. 
Compote of Stuffed Apples, 

264. 
Compotes of Apple, 263, 264. 
Compotes of Chestnuts, 269, 

270. 
Fine Small Dessert Cakes, 

285. 
Ginger Dessert Cakes, 289. 



316 



INDEX. 



Sweets — Contin ued. 
Lemon Baskets, 274. 
Little China Dishes, 278. 
Macaroons, 287. 
Orange Baskets filled with 

fruit, 272. 
Orange Basket Glace, 274. 
Pears a la Princesse, 267. 
Pink Compote, 267. 
Raspberry Charlotte Russe, 

281. 
Rout Biscuits, 285. 
Swiss Vacherin, 276. 
Variegated Compote of 

Pears, 268. 

Tartare Sauce, 48. 
Teal with Anchovies, 148. 
Timbale of Chicken, 129. 
Timbales d'Epinard, 151. 
Tomato Jelly, 205 ; Souffle, 206. 
Tomatoes and Mushrooms, 200. 
Trifles, Almond, 279. 
Turban, Almond, 285. 
Turbans of Sole, 67. 

Uneatable decorations, 196. 

Vacherin, Swiss, 276. 

Vanilla Cream, 227; Cream 

Sauce, 298. 
Variegated Compote of Pears, 

268. 
Veal Cutlets a la Primrose, 139. 
Vegetables, 197-207. 

A few ways of cooking, 197. 
Beet- root Fritters, 198. 
Cauliflower Fritters, 198. 



Vegetables — Contimied. 

Fried Artichokes, 198. 

ISIilanese Potatoes, 205, 

IMushroom Baskets, 201. 

aiushroom Jelly, 200. 

Mushrooms and Tomatoes, 
200. 

Mushrooms stuffed a la Lu- 
cullus, 200. 

Potatoes a la Proven9ale,204. 

Scalloped Potatoes, 205. 

Spanish or Portuguese On- 
ion, 202, 203. 

Spinach Fritters, 206. 

Stuffed Cucumbers, 199. 

Stuffed Spanish Onion, 204. 

Tomato Jelly. 205, 

Tomato Souffle, 206. 

Various wavs of serving, 
199-207. ' 
Veloute, or White, Sauce, 14. 
Villeroi Sauce, 21. 

Walnut or Hickorv-nut Cream, 

237. 
W£?ter-ices, 253-256. 

Almond, 255. 

Apricot, 256. 

Cinnamon. 255. 

Currant, 256. 

(iinger, 253, 

Pineapple, 254. 

Pistachio, 255. 
Whipped Cream, 213, 214; 

Sweet Sauces, 297. 
White Sauces, 23-32. 
Wine, Iced Pudding, 243; 
Sauces, 296. 



THE END. 



MISS CORSON'S FAMILY LIVING ON 
$500 A YEAK. 

Family Livino' on $500 a Year. A Daily Reference 
Book for Young and Inexperienced lloasewives. 
By Juliet Corson. 16mo, Cloth, $1 25. 

If we ever get as much as $500 a year we shall purchase 
this book and live like a prince. ... It goes carefully through 
the expenses of daily living, and indicates the thousand and 
one ways in which a penny can be saved and another penny 
put where it will do most good. A book of this kind placed 
in the hands of those who have very limited means will show 
that they can live very comfortably and have quite enough 
to eat on a very small sum. — JV. Y. Herald. 

It is a helpful working book, sensible and practical, and 
tells how to buy, cook, and serve all sorts of food; how to 
can, pickle, and preserve ; and how to arrange and serve 
luncheons, dinners, and teas, all in the most economical man- 
ner consistent with appetizing results, — Sunday-School Times, 
Philadelphia. 

Food-economist, cook-book, and instructor in table service 
all in one. . . . The book is a capital one, and every house- 
keeper should feel grateful to the able a' d painstaking au- 
thor.— JV. Y. Post. 

The production of a lady who understands her subject 
thoroughly, and who earnestly wishes to help others towards 
the same useful knowledge. ... A book of this sort (and 
Miss Corson is the best able to produce it of any one we 
know) is a great aid, and the more it is circulated the moi-e 
houseliolds will be made happy. — Churchman, K Y. 

Every house-keeper, whether coming Avithin the scope of 
the author's effort or not, will find many instructive hints, a 
due regard for which will be conducive to the improved phys- 
ical well-being and increased mental serenity of the various 
members of her household. — St. Louis Republican. 



Published by HARPER & BROTHERS, Xew York. 

t^~ Harper & Brothers will send the above work by mail, post- 
age prepaid, to any part of the United States or 
. Canada, on receipt of the price. 



MRS. SHERAVOOD'S MANNERS AND 
SOCIAL USAGES IN AMERICA. 



Manners and Social Usages in America. A Book 
of Etiquette. By Mrs. John Sherwood, pp. 448. 
New and Enlarged Edition, Revised by the Au- 
thor. 16mo, Extra Cloth, $1 25. 

Mrs. Sherwood's admirable little volume diflfers from ordi- 
nary works on the subject of etiquette, chiefly in the two facts 
that it is founded on its author's personal familiarity with the 
usages of really good society, and that it is inspired by good- 
sense and a helpful spirit. . , . We think Mrs. Sherwood's lit- 
tle book the very best and most sensible one of its kind that 
we ever saw. — iV. Y. Commercial Advertise)'. 

We have no hesitation in declaring it to be the best work 
of the kind yet published. Tlie author shows a just appreci- 
ation of what is good-breeding and what is snobbishness. . . . 
In happy discriminations the excellence of Mrs. Sherwood's 
book is conspicuous. — Brooklyn Union. 

It is a sensible and pleasantly written volume, which has 
already won recognition as one of the best books of its kind, 
and this new edition is called for by the heartiness with which 
the public has endorsed the work. — Conrie7% Boston. 

A sensible, comprehensive book, which has endured criti- 
cism successfully, and deserves now to be regarded the be.st 
book of its kind published in this country. ... A better 
guide than Mrs. Sherwood's book through tlie paths of social 
usages we do not know. The book is a handsome one, as it 
ought to be. — Christian Intel li.ffencei% X. Y. 



PuBLisHKD BY HARPER & BROTHERS, New York. 

• Harpku & Bkotiikrs will send the above work by mail, post- 
age prepaid, to any part of the United States or 
Carutda, on receipt of the price. 



BOOKS FOR THE HOUSEHOLD. 



MRS. HENDERSON'S PRACTICAL COOKING. 

Practical Coolving and Dinner Giving. A Treat- 
ise containing Practical Instructions in Cooking; 
in the Con:ibination and Serving of Dishes, and in 
the Fashionable modes of Entertaining at Break- 
fast, Lunch, and Dinner. By Mary F. Hender- 
son. Illustrated. 12mo, Water- proof Cover, 
$1 50. 

MRS. HENDERSON'S DIET FOR THE SICK. 
Diet for the Sick. A Treatise on the Values of 
Foods, their Application to Special Conditions 
of Health and Disease, and on the Best Methods 
of their Preparation. By Mary F. Henderson. 
Illustrated. 12mo, Cloth, |I 50 

MRS. AVASHINGTON'S UNRIVALLED COOK- 
BOOK. The Unrivalled Cook-Book and House-, 
keeper's Guide. By Mrs. Washington. 12mo, 
Water-proof Cover, $2 00. 

MRS. SMITH'S VIRGINIA COOKERY-BOOK. 

Virginia Cookery - Book. By Mary Stuart 
Smith. 12mo, Cloth, $1 50 ; 4to, Paper, 25 cents. 

BAZAR COOKING RECEIPTS. Cooking Re- 
ceipts from Harper s Bazar. 32mo, Paper, 25 
cents ; Cloth, 40 cents. 

MISS OAKEY'S BEAUTY IN DRESS. Beauty 
in Dress. By Miss Oakey. 16mo, Cloth, |1 00. 



Books for the Household. 



MRS. DEWING'S (MISS OAKEY) BEAUTY IN 
THE HOUSEHOLD. Beauty in the Household. 
By Mrs. T. W. Dewing, Author of " Beauty in 
DressJ' Illustrated. 16mo, Cloth, $1 00. 

COAN'S OUNCES OF PREVENTION. Ounces 
of Prevention. By Titus Munson Coan, M.D. 
12mo, Paper, 25 cents; Cloth, 50 cents. 

MRS. CHURCH'S MONEY-MAKING FOR LA- 
DIES. Money- Making- for Ladies. By Ella 
Rodman Church. 16mo, Cloth, 90 cents. 

WALKER'S HINTS TO WOMEN ON THE 
CARE OF PROPERTY. Hints to W^omen on 
the Care of Property. By Alfred Walker. 
32mo, Paper, 20 cents; Cloth, 35 cents. 

MISS CORSON'S FAMILY LIVING. Family Liv- 
ing on $500 a Year. A Daily Reference Book 
for Young and Inexperienced Housewives. By 
Juliet Corson. 16mo, Cloth, $1 25. 

MRS. HERRICK'S HOUSE -KEEPING MADE 
p]ASY. House-keeping Made Easy. By Chris- 
tine Terhune Herrick. 16nio, Cloth, $1 00- 



Published by HARPER & BROTHERS, New York. 

®= IIarpkr & BuoTiiKBS ivill send any of the above works, post- 
age prepaid, to any part of the United States or 
Canada, on receipt of the price. 



THIS BOOK IS DUE ON THE LAST DATE 
STAMPED BELOW 



RENEWED BOOKS ARE SUBJECT TO IMMEDIATE 
RECALL 



LIBRARY, UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, DAVIS 



N? 639693 



Nltsch, H.A.M. 
Choice cookery, 



TX715 
N731 



LIBRARY 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 

DAVIS 






"-^- 



Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 

in 2007 witii funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



littp://www.arcliive.org/details/clioicecookeryOOowen 



CHOICE COOKERY 



BY 

CATHERINE OWEN^..-- 

AUTHOR OF 
TEX DOLLARS EXOUGH " " GEXTLE BREAD WIXXERS ' ETC. 



NEW YOR'il' ' ,, .' ;', ' • ■ 
HARPER & BROTHERS, FRANKLIN SQUARE 

1889 - 



THE N£W Y&R^ 



Copyright, 1889, by Harper & Brothers. 



All riglds reserved. 



PREFACE. 



Choice cookery is not intended for house- 
holds that have to stud}^ economy, except 
where economy is a relative term ; where, 
perhaps, the housekeeper could easily spend 
a dollar for the materials of a luxur}^, but 
could not spare the four or five dollars a 
caterer would charge. 

Many families enjoy giving little dinners, 
or otherwise exercising hospitality, but are 
debarred from doing so by the fact that 
anything beyond the ordinary daily fare 
has to be ordered in, or an expensive extra 
cook engaged. And although we may re- 
gret that hospitality should ever be depend- 
ent on fine cooking, we have to take things 



iv 



PREFACE. 



as they arc. It is not every liostess who 
loves simplicity that dares to practise it. 

It was to help the women who wish to 
know at a glance what is newest and best 
in modern cookery that these chapters were 
written for Ilarijcr's Bazai\ and are now 
gathered into a book. It is hoped by the 
writer that the copious details and simplifi- 
cation of different matters will enable those 
who have already achieved success in the 
plainer branches of cookery to venture fur- 
ther, and realize for themselves that it is 
only the "first step that costs." 

I have to acknowledge my indebtedness 
to Mrs. Clarke, of the South Kensington 
School of Cookery, to Madame de Salis, and 
tliose epicurean friends who have cast their 
nets in foreign waters, and sent me the dain- 
tiest fish they caught. 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER PAGE 

I. Introduction 1 

II. Sauces 11 

III. White Sauces 23 

IV. Brown Sauces 33 

V. Cold Sauces 42 

VI. Soups 51 

VII. Fisn Entrees Gl 

VIII. Various Ways of Serving Oysters . . 71 

IX. Various Culinary Matters 79 

X. Entrees = 86 

XI. Entrees of Mutton Cutlets or Cuops . 98 
XII. On tue Manner of Preparing Cro- 
quettes, Cutlets, Kromeskies, Ris- 
soles, and Cigarettes 107 

XIII. Patties IIG 



XIV. Entrees 1 



XV. Entrees— cc^/tii/iwc(Z 13-4 

XVI. E^TRKEs—contuiucd 143 

XVII. Cold Entrees, or Ciiaudfroids . . . 153 



VI CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER PAGE 

XVIII. Cold Entrees 1G2 

XIX. Galantines, Ballotines, etc. . . 172 
XX. How to " Fillet."— Cold Game Pies . 181 

XXI. Garnishes 101 

XXII. Various Ways OF Serving Vegetables 190 

XXIII. Jellies 208 

XXIV. Jellies — continued 217 

XXV. Cold Sweets.— Creams 226 

XXVI. Creams and Frozen Puddings . .235 

XXVII. Iced Puddings 243 

XXVIII. Ice-creams and Water ices . . .252 

XXIX. Miscellaneous Sweets 2G2 

XXX. Miscellaneous Sweets— continued . . 271 
XXXI. Miscellaneous Sweets— continued . 281 

XXXII. Fine Cakes and Sauces 291 

XXXIII. Salads and Cheese Dishes .... COO 
Index 309 



CHOICE COOKERY, 



I. 

INTRODUCTION. 

By choice cookery is iileant exactly what 
the words imply. There will be no attempt 
to teacli family or inexpensive cooking, those 
branches of domestic economy having been 
so excellently treated by capable hands al- 
ready. It may be said en jxissant, however, 
that even choice cooking is not necessarily 
expensive. Many dishes cost little for the 
matericils, but owe their daintiness and ex- 
l)cnsiveness to the care bestowed in cook- 
ing or to a fine sauce. For instance: cod, 
one of the cheapest of fish, and considered 
coarse food as usually served, becomes an 
1 



2 CHOICE COOKERY. 

epicurean dish when served with a fine Hol- 
landaise or oyster sauce, and it will not even 
then be more expensive than any average- 
priced boiling fish. Flounder served as sole 
Normaiide conjures up memories of the fa- 
mous Philippe, whose fortune it made, or it 
may be of luxurious little dinners at other 
famous restaurants, and is suggestive, in fact, 
of anything but economy. Yet it is really 
an inexpensive dish. 

But while it is quite true that fine cook- 
ing does not always mean expensive cooking, 
it is also true that it requires the best mate- 
rials and suSicient of them; that if satis- 
factory results are to be obtained there must 
be no attempt to stint or change proportions 
from a false idea of economy, although it 
must never be forgotten that all good cook- 
ing is economical, by which I mean that 
there is no Avaste, every cent's worth of ma- 
terial being made to do its full duty. 

In this book the object will be to give 
the newest and most recherche dishes, and 



INTRODUCTION. 3 

these will naturally be expensive. Yet for 
those families who depend upon the caterer 
for everything in the Avay of fine soups, 
entrees^ or sauces, because the cook can 
achieve only the plain part of the diuner, it 
will be found a great economy as well as 
convenience to be independent of this out- 
side resource, which is always very costly, 
and invariably destroys the individuality of 
a repast. Many new recipes will be given, 
and others little known in private kitchens, 
or thought to be quite beyond the attainment 
of any but an accomplished chef. But if strict 
attention be paid to small matters, and the di- 
rections faithfully carried out, there will be no 
difficulty in a lady becoming her own chef. 

I propose to begin with sauces. This is 
reversing the usual mode, and yet I think 
the reader will not regret the innovation. 
The cooking to be taught in these pages, 
being emphatically what is popularly known 
as" Delmonico cooking," very much depends 
on the excellence of the sauces served Avitli 



4 CHOICE COOKERY. 

each dish ; and as it is no time to learn to 
make a fine sauce when the dish it is served 
with is being cooked, I think the better plan 
is to give the sauces first. They Avill be fre- 
quently referred to, but no repetition of the 
recipes will be given. 

Before proceeding further I will say a few 
words that may save time and patience here- 
after. Of course it is not expected that any 
one will hope to succeed Avitli elaborate dish- 
es without understanding the principles of 
simple cooking, but many do this without 
perceiving that in that knowledge they hold 
the key to very much more, and I would ask 
readers who are in earnest about the matter 
to acquire the habit of putting two and two 
together in cooking as they would in fancy- 
work. If you know half a dozen embroidery 
or lace stitches, you see at once that you can 
produce the elaborate combinations in which 
those stitches are used. So it is with cooking. 
The most elaborate dish will only be a com- 
bination of two or three simpler processes 



INTRODUCTION. 5 

of cooking, perfectly done — that is a sine 
qua nor. — sometliing fried, roasted, boiled, or 
braised to perfection, and a sauce that no 
chef could improve upon ; but to recognize 
that this is so — that when you can make a 
Chateaubriand sauce or a Bearnaise perfect- 
ly, and can saute a steak, the famed filets a 
la Chateaubriand or a la Bearnaise are no 
longer a mystery, or that one who can make 
clear meat jelly and roast a chicken has 
learned all but the arrangement of a cliaud- 
froid in aspic — will make apparently com- 
plicated dishes simple. 

I go into these matters because I hope to 
cause my readers to thinlc about the recipes 
they will use, when they will see for them- 
selves that even the finest cooking is not in- 
tricate nor in any way difiicult. It requires 
intelligence and great care about details : no 
half-attention will do, any more than it will 
in any other thing we attempt, whether it be 
high art or domestic art. 

In making sauces or reading recipes for 



6 CHOICE COOKERY. 

them it simplifies matters to remember that 
in savory sauces — by which I mean those 
served with meats or fish — there, are wliat 
the French call the two "mother sauces," 
white sauce and brown ; all others, with few 
exceptions, are modifications of these two ; 
that is to say, bechamel is only white sauce 
made with white stock and cream instead of 
milk ; allemande is the same, only yollis of 
eggs replace the cream ; and so on through 
the long list of sauces belonging to the blond 
variety. The simple brown sauce becomes 
the famous Chateaubriand by the addition of 
glaze (or very strong gravy) and a glass of 
white wine, and is the "mother" of many 
others equally fine. This being so, it will 
be seen that it is of the first importance that 
the making of these two "mother sauces" 
should be thoroughly understood, in order 
for the finer ones based on them to be suc- 
cessfully accomplished. 

It will clear the way for easy work if I 
here give the directions for making one of 



INTRODUCTION. 7 

the most neces sary and convenient aids to 
fine cooking — the above-named glaze. To 
have it in the house~saves much worry and 
work. If the soup is not just so strong as 
we wish, the addition of a small piece of 
glaze will make it excellent ; or we wish to 
make brown sauce, and have no stock, the 
glaze comes to our aid. To have stock in 
the house at all times is by no means easy in 
a small family, especially in summer; with 
glaze, which is solidified stock, one is inde- 
pendent of it. 

Six pounds of lean beef from the leg, or a 
knuckle of veal and beef to make six pounds. 
Cut this in pieces two inches square or less ; 
do the same with half a pound of lean ham, 
free from rind or smoky outside, and which 
has been scalded five minutes. Put the meat 
into a two-gallon pot with three medium- 
sized onions with two cloves in each, a turnip, 
a carrot, and a small head of celery. Pour 
over them five quarts of cold water; let it 
come slowly to the boiling-point, when skim, 



o CHOICE COOKERY. 

and draw to a spot where it will gently sim- 
mer for six hours. This stock as it is will 
be an excellent foundation for all kinds of 
clear soups or gravies, with the addition of 
salt, which must on no account be added for 
glaze. 

To reduce this stock to glaze, do as follows : 
Strain the stock first through a colander, and 
return meat and vegetables to the pot ; put 
to them four quarts of Iwt water, and let it 
boil four hours longer. The importance of 
this second boiling, which may at first sight 
appear useless economy, will be seen if you 
let the two stocks get cold; the first will 
be of delightful flavor, but probably quite 
liquid ; the last will be flavorless, but if the 
boiling process has been slow enough it will 
be a jelly, the second boiling having been 
necessary to extract the gelatine from the 
bones, which is indispensable for the forma- 
tion of glaze. 

Strain both these stocks through a scalded 
cloth. (If they have been allowed to get 



INTRODUCTION. 9 

cool, beat them in order to strain.) Put 
both stocks together into one large pot, and 
let it boil as fast as possible with the cover 
off, leaving a large spoon in it to prevent it 
boiling over, also to stir occasionally ; when 
it is reduced to three pints put it into a small 
saucepan, and let it boil more slowly. Stir 
frequently with a wooden spoon until it be- 
gins to thicken and has a fine yellowish- 
brown color, which will be when it is re- 
duced to a quart or rather less. At this 
point watch closely, as it quickly burns. 
When there is only a pint and a half it will 
be fit to pour into small cups or jars, or it 
may be dried in thin sheets, if required for 
soup in travelling ; to do this, pour it into 
oiled tin pans an inch deep. When cold it 
can be cut out in two-inch squares and dried 
by exposure to the air till it is like glue. 
One square makes a cup of strong soup if 
dissolved in boiling water and seasoned. If, 
however, it is put into pots, it must not he 
covered until all moisture has evaporated 



10 CHOICE COOKERY. 

and the glaze shrinks from the sides of the 
jar. This may take a month. 

The most convenient of all ways for pre- 
serving glaze is to get from your butcher a 
yard of sausage-skin. Tie one end very tight- 
ly, then pour in the glaze while warm l)y 
means of a large funnel. Tie the skin just 
as you would sausage as close to the glaze 
as possible, cut off any remaining skin, and 
hang the one containing the glaze up to dry. 
"When needed, a slice is cut from this. 

Of course any strong meat and bone-soup 
can be boiled down in the same way, and 
where there is meat on hand in danger of 
spoiling from sudden change of weather it 
can be turned into glaze, and kept indefi- 
nitely. I have found glaze five years old as 
good as the first week. 



11. 

SAUCES. 

In addition to the glaze, for which the rec- 
ipe is given in the preceding pages, and which 
will make you independent of the stock pot, 
there are several other articles involving very 
small outlay w^hicli it is absolutely necessary 
to have at hand in order to follow directions 
without trouble and worry. 

It is often said by thoughtless housekeep- 
ers that cooking-books are of little use, be- 
cause the recipes always call for something 
that is not in the house. This is a habit of 
mind only, for the very women who say it 
keep their work-baskets supplied with every- 
thing necessary for work, not only the every- 
day white and black spools, nor would they 
hesitate to undertake a piece of embroidery 
which required quite unusual combinations 



12 CHOICE COOKERY. 

of color or material, and to be obtained only 
with difficulty. Grant a little of this earnest 
painstaking to the requirements of tlie cook- 
inof-book at the start, see that the herb-bot- 
ties are supplied with dried herbs (when fresh 
are not attainable), the spice-boxes contain 
the small quantity of fresh line spices that 
is sufficient for a good deal of cooking, and 
red and white wine and brandy are in the 
house, all of which should be kept in the 
store-closet for cooking alone, and not liable 
to be " out " when wanted. 

The so-called ^'French herbs" are rarely 
found in American gardens, yet might be 
very readily sown in early spring, as parsley 
is ; but although seldom home-grown, they 
are to be found at the French market-gar- 
dener's in Washington Market, and can be 
bought fresh and dried in paper bags quickly 
for use. I say dried quickl}^, because unless 
the sun is very hot much of the aroma will 
pass into the air ; it is, therefore, better to 
dry tliem in a cool oven. When they are 



SAUCES. 13 

dry enough to crumble to dust, free the 
herbs from stems and twigs, and put them 
separately into tin boxes or Avide-mouthed 
bottles, each labelled. The expense of herbs 
and spices is very slight, and they are cer- 
tainly not neglected among kitchen stores 
on that account ; it is merely the want of 
habit in ordering them. In addition to these 
articles a bottle of capers, one of olives, one 
of anchovies, canned mushrooms, and canned 
truffles should be on hand — the latter should 
be bought in the smallest-sized cans, as they 
are very costly, but a little goes a long way. 
Families living in the country often have for 
a season more mushrooms than they can use. 
In the few days in which they are plentiful 
opportunity should be taken to peel and dry 
as many as possible; when powdered they 
give a finer flavor than the canned mush- 
room, and may be used to great advantage 
in dark sauces. 

The French chef classes all white sauces as 
hlonde, and calls the jar of very smooth thick 



14 CHOICE COOKERY. 

white sauce, wliicli he keeps ready made as a 
foundation for most of the family of hght 
sauces, his Uonde or veloute. This expla- 
nation is given because directions are often 
found in French recipes to " take half a pint 
of veloute" or of "blonde." The mistress 
of a prfv^ate house may not find it wise or 
necessary to keep a supply of sauce ready 
made, although to one who has to supply a 
variety of sauces each day it is indispensable ; 
but the day before a dinner-party sauces can 
be so made, and covered with a film of but- 
ter to prevent skin forming, and can then 
be heated in a bain-marie when required for 
use. Almost every chef has his favorite 
recipe for veloute, or white sauce, but they 
differ only in points that are little essential ; 
the foundation is always the same, as fol- 
lows : Put two ounces of butter in a thick 
saucepan with two ounces of flour (table- 
spoonfuls approximate the ounce, but weight 
only should be relied on for fine cooking). 
Let these melt over the fire, stirring them 



SAUCES. 15 

SO that the butter and flour become well 
mixed ; then let them bubble together, stir- 
ring enough to prevent the flour sticking or 
chano'ino: color. Three minutes will suffice 
to cook the flour; add a pint of clear Jbpt 
white stock that has been strained through 
a cloth. This stock must not be poured 
slowly, or the sauce will thicken too fast. 
Hold the pint-measure or other vessel in 
which the stock may be in the left hand, 
stir the butter and flour quickly with the 
right, then turn the broth to it all at once. 
Let this simmer an hour until very thick, 
then add a gill of very rich cream, stir, and 
the sauce is ready. 

This is undoubtedly the best w^ay to make 
white sauce, which is to serve as a founda- 
tion for others, or is intended to mask meat 
or poultry, the long, slow simmering produc- 
ing an extreme blandness not to be attained 
by a quicker method. But circumstances 
sometimes prevent the previous preparation 
of the sauce, in which case it may be made 



16 CHOICE COOKERY. 

exactly in the same way, only instead of a 
pint of broth, but three gills should be poured 
on the butter and flour, and a gill of thick 
cream stirred in when it boils ; the sauce is 
finished when it again reaches the boiling- 
point. 

This is the foundation for the follow- 
ing "grand" sauces: Poulette, Allemande, 
Uxelles, Soubise, Ste. Menehould, Perigueux, 
Supreme, besides all the simpler ones, which 
take their name from the chief ingredient, 
such as caper, cauliflower, celery, lobster, etc., 
etc. 

For sauces that have vinegar or lemon 
juice, it is better that the veloute, or white 
sauce, should have no cream until the last 
minute, or it may curdle. My object in giv- 
ing the recipes for sauces in the way I intend 
- — that is to say, by building on to, or omit- 
ting from, one foundation sauce — is to dispel 
some of the confusion which exists in the 
minds of many people about the exact differ- 
ence between several sauces differing from 



SAUCES. 17 

each other very shghtly — a confusion which 
is only added to by reading over the fully 
written recipes for each, as many a painstak- 
ing:, intellio:ent woman's headache Avill tes- 
tify. As we progress, the exact difference 
between each will be explained. 

Bechamel. — This sauce differs from the 
white sauce only in the fact that the white 
stock used for the latter need not be very 
strong; for bechamel it should either be 
very strong or boiled down rapidly to make 
it so, and there should always be half cream 
instead of one third, as in white sauce, and 
when required for fish the stock may be of 
fish. White sauce is frequently (perhaps 
most frequently) made with milk, or milk 
and cream, in place of stock, in this countr}^ 
and answers admirably for many purposes, 
but would not be what is required for the 
kind of cooking intended in these pages. 

Most readers know how "to stir," and it 
may seem quite an unnecessary matter to go 
into. Yet if only one reader does not know 
2 



18 CHOICE COOKERY. 

that to stir means a regular, even, slow cir- 
cling of the spoon, not only in the centre of 
the saucepan, but round the sides, she Avill 
fail in making good sauce. Stir, then, slow- 
ly, gently, going over every part of the bot- 
tom of the saucepan till the sides are reached, 
pass the spoon gently round them, thence 
back to the middle, and so on. In this way 
the sauce gets no chance to stick to any par- 
ticular spot. A small copper saucepan is the 
best possible utensil for making sauce, as it 
does not burn. 

The rule for seasoning is a level salt-spoon- 
ful of salt to half a pint ; pepper, one fourth 
the quantity. This, however, is only when 
the stock is unseasoned ; if seasoned, only 
salt enough must be added to season the 
cream and eggs. 

Allemande. — Take half a pint of white 
sauce, add to it half the liquor from a can of 
mushrooms, and half a dozen of the mush- 
rooms chopped fine. Let them simmer — 
stirring all the time — five minutes, then re- 



SAUCES. 19 

move from the fire. Set the saucepan into 
another containing boiling water. Have the 
yolks of three eggs ready beaten, put a little 
of the sauce to them, beat together, then add 
the eggs gradually to the rest of the sauce, 
which must be returned to the fire, and 
stirred until the eggs teg in to thicken ; then 
it must be quickly removed, and stirred until 
slightly cool. Season with a saltspoonful of 
salt, a fourth of one of pepper, and strain 
carefully. 

It must never be forgotten that in thicken- 
ing with eggs the sauce or soup must not hoil 
after they are added, or they will curdle. 
Yet if they do not reach the boiling-point 
they will not thicken. Only keen attention 
to the first sign of thickening will insure 
success. If a failure is made the first time, 
look upon it as the first step to success, for 
you have learned what the danger loolis like. 
Make the sauce again as soon as possible, so 
that your eye may not lose the impression. 
It is worth considerable effort (and it is 



20 CHOICE COOKERY. 

really only a matter of a few minutes each 
time) to make Allemande sauce Avell, for in 
doing so you also learn to make IloUandaise 
and several choice sauces, as will be seen by 
those that follow. 

Poulette Sauce. — Make Allemande sauce 
as directed in the foregoing recipe ; add a 
wineglass of white wine. If sweetbreads or 
chicken are to be cooked in the sauce, as is 
not unusual, of course the eggs must be left 
out until the last thing. Anything served 
with this sauce is called a la jyoidette. 

Sauce a la cV Uxelles. — Chop fine a dozen 
small button mushrooms, or half a dozen 
large ones ; parsley and chives, of each 
enough to make a teaspoonful Avhen finely 
chopped ; of lean ham a tablespoonful, and 
one small shallot. Fry gently in a table- 
spoonful of butter, but do not let them 
brown. Stir these into half a pint of white 
sauce, simmer three or four minutes, then 
add two yolks of eggs, as for Allemande, 
and the last thing a half - teaspoonful of 



SAUCES. 21 

lemon-juice, and just enough glaze to make 
the sauce the shade of a pale Suede glove. 
This sauce is used cold to coat meats that 
have to be cooked in paper, and many that 
are afterwards to be fried in bread-crumbs, for 
which directions will be given in the entrees. 
Dishes termed a la cV Uxelles are among the 
most recherche productions of the French 
kitchen. 

YiUeroi Sauce. — Make half a pint of white 
sauce, which, as in the case of bechamel, may 
be made of fish stock when for use with fish ; 
chop half a dozen mushrooms, and add a gill 
of the liquor to the sauce, half a saltspoonf ul 
of powdered thyme (or one sprig, if fresh), 
two sprigs of parsley, and half a bay-leaf; 
simmer for fifteen minutes ; strain through 
a scalded cloth ; replace on the fire ; add a 
piece of glaze as large as a hazel-nut, or a 
tablespoonful of strong meat -gravy, just 
enough to give it the shade of palest cafe au 
lait ; thicken with two yolks of eggs, as for 
AUemande sauce. All articles served with 



CHOICE COOKERY. 



this sauce are termed d la Villeroi. It dif- 
fers from d'Uxelles only in having no ham. 
nor acidity from the lemon ; also, all flavor 
of onion is omitted. 



III. 

WHITE SAUCES. 

Supreme sauce gives its name to several 
dishes dear to epicures — supreme de volaille, 
supreme de Toulouse, etc. It is made with 
a pint of thick white sauce, a pint of very 
strong chicken broth, four stalks of parsley, 
and six white pepper-corns, boiled down to 
half a pint. Stir sauce and broth together 
until thoroughly blended, then boil rapidly 
down till thick again, taking great care it 
does not burn. Add one gill of double 
cream, and half a saltspoonful of salt (if the 
stock was already seasoned). Boil up till 
thick enough to mash the lach of a sjjoo?!, 
strain, and the last thing add a small tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice. 

When the white sauce has to be made ex- 
pressly for the supreme, it is easier to use 



24 CHOICE COOKERY. 

stron<^ chicken broth in place of ordinary 
white stock ; then it is not necessary to add 
it after. The term " to mask the Ijack of a 
spoon " is a common one to indicate the prop- 
er thickness for sauces, but to the untrained 
eye it may not be easy to decide just what 
"masking" means. Most sauces should be 
thin enough to run quite freely from the 
spoon, yet not so thin as to leave the color 
of the spoon visible through the coating of 
sauce it will retain if it be dipped into it ; 
there should be a thin opaque coating or 
" mask " to the back of the spoon. Sauce of 
this thickness is produced by using one ounce 
(exact weight) of flour of fine ([uality to half 
a pint of liquid. Meat, fish, or vegetables 
over Avhich sauce of this consistency lias 
been poured Avill be quite masked, but tlie 
sauce will not be too thick to serve readily 
with a spoon. This consistency is wortli 
some practice to attain, for it is the perfec- 
tion of sauce-making. 

White sauce, when intended for the foun- 



WHITE SAUCES. 25 

dation of others, it must be observed, is made 
twice as thick, to allow for the addition of 
cream, wine, or stock. The only advantage 
in a private family of making it thus thick 
is Avhen, perhaps, two or three sauces are 
needed for a dinner; for example, a plain 
white sauce for a vegetable, caper, lobster, 
or cardinal for other purposes, and perhaps 
poulette, d'Uxelles, or other pale sauce for an 
entree ; but when one sauce only is required, 
it is best to make that one from the begin- 
ning ; that is to say, make white sauce with 
the additions that form it into Allemande, 
supreme, or whatever you require. 

Ste. Mtnelioxdd Sauce is in these days 
chiefly associated with " pigs' feet a la Ste. 
Menehould," but is good for several pur- 
poses. It is simply half a pint of white sauce 
into which a dozen bruised mushrooms, a 
gill of the mushroom liquor, a large teaspoon- 
ful of finely chopped chives, with the sixth of 
a saltspoonful of pepper and one of salt are 
allowed to simmer until the sauce is the same 



26 CHOICE COOKERY. 

thickness as before the addition of the mush- 
room liquor ; that is to say, thick enough to 
mask the spoon. Strain, return to the sauce- 
pan, and add a teaspoonf ul of finely chopped 
sage leaves, if for pigs' feet, or parsley for oth- 
er purposes ; boil once, add half a teaspoon- 
ful of lemon juice, and the sauce is ready. 

Bearnaise Sauce. ^—"D^x^ is one of the most 
difficult sauces to make, on account of the 
danger of the eggs curdling ; but by the fol- 
lowing method the work is rendered more 
sure than by the usual plan. It has been 
said that the terrors of a cook are Bearnaise 
sauce and omelette soufflee, but neither is 
really difficult ; great care only is necessary 
for success with each. 

Chop four shallots fine, put them into a 
saucepan w^th half a gill of Tarragon vine- 
gar and half a gill of plain vinegar ; boil till 
reduced to one tablespoonf ul ; then add one 
gill of white sauce, mixing well. Stand the 
saucepan in another of boiling water ; then 
add, one at a time, three yolks of eggs, beat- 



WHITE SAUCES. 27 

ing each one well in before adding another, 
and on no account let the sauce hoil. Remove 
the saucepan from the fire when the eggs are 
all in and show signs of thickening. Have 
ready three ounces of butter cut into small 
pieces ; drop one in at a time, and with an 
egg-whisk beat the sauce till the butter is 
blended ; then add another piece, and so on, 
till all the butter is used. If added too 
quickly the butter will oil, therefore great 
care must be taken to see one piece entirely 
blend before adding another. The butter 
will probably salt the sauce enough, but if 
not, add a very little salt. This sauce should 
have the aj)pearance of a Welsh-rabbit when 
ready to spread ; in other words, it should be 
very thick, smooth, and dark yellow. 

iSouMse. — This sauce, which transforms 
ordinary mutton-chops into " cutelettes a la 
Soubise," is very easily made. Boil half a 
dozen Bermuda onions (medium size) in milk 
till quite tender ; press out all the milk ; 
chop them as fine as possible; sprinkle a 



38 CHOICE COOKERY. 

quarter of a saltspoonful of white pepper 
and one of salt over them ; then stir them 
with a tablespoonful of butter into half a 
pint of white sauce. If the onions should 
thin the sauce too much (they are sometimes 
very watery), thicken with a yolk of egg, or 
blend a teaspoonful of flour with the butter 
before stirring it in. Eoil the sauce three 
minutes. Needless to say, if the yolk of egg 
is added, it must be beaten in after the sauce 
is removed from the stove, and only allowed 
to thicken, not boil. 

The sauces so far given are what French 
cooks call " grand sauces." They are the 
most important part of the dish with which 
they are served, and, as we have seen, give 
the name to it. There are numberless other 
sauces of which the Avhite sauce is parent 
that are, however, not indispensable to the 
dish they are served with — by which I mean 
a boiled fish may be served with oyster sauce 
or Dutch sauce, the sauce being in this case 
simply the adjunct. 



WHITE SAUCE. 29 

A dessertspoonful of capers put into half 
a pint of white sauce, with a teaspoonful of 
the vinegar, makes caper sauce. 

Celery sauce is, again, white sauce with 
the pulp of boiled celery. Boil the white 
part of four heads of celery ( shced thin) in 
millv till it will mash ; this will take an hour, 
perhaps more ; then rub the pulp through a 
coarse sieve, and stir it into half a pint of 
Avhite sauce made with half rich cream. 

Oyster sauce is white sauce made l)y using 
the oyster liquor instead of stock. The oys- 
ters should be bearded, just allowed to plump 
in the liquor, which must then be strained 
for the sauce, using a gill of it with a gill of 
thick cream to make half a pint ; for this 
quantity a dozen and a half of small oysters 
will be required. 

Shrimp sauce, parsley sauce, lobster sauce, 
cucumber sauce, and all the family are white 
sauce with the addition of the ingredient 
naming it. Cucumber sauce, which is ap- 
proved for fish, is made by grating a cucum- 



30 CHOICE COOKERY. 

ber, and adding it, with the water from it, to 
some white sauce ; boil till wx41 flavored, 
and then strain. If too thin, boil till thick, 
stirring carefully. 

For shrimp sauce canned shrimps serve 
very well indeed ; they must be thrown for 
a minute into cold water, ^\e\l stirred in it to 
remove superfluous salt, then drained, and 
dried on a cloth. Put a gill of shrimps to 
half a pint of bechamel made Avith fish stock, 
boil once, and stir in just enough essence of 
anchovy to make tlie sauce a j^ale shrimp 
pink. 

Cardinal sauce is a handsome sauce for 
boiled fish. It is made b}^ drying the coral 
from a lobster, then pounding it quite smooth, 
with one ounce of butter, until it is a per- 
fectly smooth paste. Stir this into half a pint 
of bechamel. It should be a fine red when 
mixed ; pass through a sieve, and add as 
much cayenne as will go on the end of the 
blade of a small penknife. 

Hollandaise or Dutch sauce is best made in 



WHITE SAUCE. 31 

the following way. There are other meth- 
ods, but tliis one meets general approval, is 
not difficult, and agrees with many who can- 
not possibly eat it when oil is used. 

Make half a pint of drawn butter by melt- 
ing one ounce of butter with one ounce of 
flour over the fire ; let them bubble together 
(stirring the while) for one minute ; then stir 
in half a pint of boiling water and half a 
teaspoonful of salt. So far, the making is 
exactly the same as for white sauce, except 
that water is used instead of cream and 
stock. Boil once, then set the saucepan in 
another of water, and break up an ounce of 
butter into small pieces and add them ; stir 
briskly after each piece is added, and see it 
blend before putting more. When all is in, 
add the beaten yolks of five eggs, removing 
the saucepan from the fire while doing it. 
They must be very carefully and gradually 
stirred in, and when well mixed returned to 
the fire until they hegin to thicken. The 
eggs must be kept from curdling. Squeeze 



CHOICE COOKERY. 



in two teaspoonfuls of lemon juice, and add 
just a dust of cayenne. Tliis sliould be a 
thick, yellow, custard-like sauce, and have a 
perceptible acidity without being sour. 



ly. 

BROWN SAUCES. 

It lias been already stated that the family 
of brown sauces, like the w^hite, have one 
parent, Esjxignole, or Spanish sauce, which 
is the foundation for Chateaubriand, Finan- 
ciere, Eobert, Poivrade, Piquante, and other 
sauces. Ordinary brown sauce, like ordinary 
white, is often made without stock — simply 
an ounce of flour, one of butter, browned to- 
gether, and half a pint of boiling water 
added, then boiled till thick and smooth. 
But it may be safely said that in high-class 
dark sauces water should play no part ; its 
place must be taken by stock of good quali- 
ty, which is often enriched by reducing or 
adding glaze. 

The characteristics of finely made Spanish 
sauce are a clear beautiful brown, by no 



34 CHOICE COOKERY. 

means approaching black, absolute freedom 
from grease, and a fine high flavor, so well 
blended that no particular spice or herb can 
be detected. Spanish sauce is made as fol- 
lows : Wash, peel, and cut small six mush- 
rooms (or a dessertspoonful of mushroom 
powder), one small carrot, one small onion, 
and one shallot ; dry them, and fry them a 
fine brown in a tablespoonful of butter, but 
do not let them burn ; drain off the butter. 
Melt in a copper saucepan two ounces of 
butter and two ounces of flour, stir them to- 
gether over the fire till of a pale bright 
brown, then add a pint of stock, the fried 
vegetables, and a gill of tomato sauce ; let 
all gently simmer for half an hour with the 
cover off. Strain through a fine sieve. When 
Spanish sauce is to be served without any 
addition, and not as a foundation, a wine- 
glass of sherry is used and the same quan- 
tity of stock omitted. 

It becomes Chateaubriand by the addition 
of a wineglass of sherry reduced to half a 



BROWN SAUCES. 35 

glass by boiling in a tiny saucepan, a dessert- 
spoonful of fresh parsley very finely chopped, 
and the juice of half a small lemon. These 
must be added to one third the quantity of 
Espagnole, or Spanish sauce, given in the 
foregoing recipe. Then stir in gradually, 
bit by bit, one ounce of butter, letting each 
piece blend before adding more. 

I have said here and elsewhere, " the juice 
of half a small lemon." Yet I would cau- 
tion the reader to squeeze it in gradually, 
because some lemons are intensely sour, and 
a very few drops of juice from such go far- 
ther than that of the wdiole half of an aver- 
age lemon. Chateaubriand sauce is by no 
means acid ; there must be only a just per- 
ceptible dash of acidity, and only so much 
lemon juice used as will give it zest. Pi- 
quanto sauce is different ; there should be 
acidity enough to provoke appetite; yet 
even this should be by no means sour. 

To make Piquante sauce^ chop a shallot 
fine, put it, with a tablespoonful of vinegar 



36 CHOICE COOKERY. 

itito a very small SMiK'(']);m ; let tliom stew 
together until the vine<^-{ir is entireh/ (dh 
sorhed^ hut do not let it hui'u. ^riieii add to 
it lialf a pint of Spanish sauce and a g-ill of 
stock, with a bay-leaf and a sprig of thyme ; 
cook very gently ten minutes, remove the 
thyme and hay-leaf, and add a, dessertspoon- 
ful of chopped pickled cucumber, a teaspoon- 
ful of capers, and a dessertspoonful oi finely 
clio])ped parsley. Simmer very slowly ten 
minutes more ; then add enough cayenne to 
lay on the tij) of a ])enknife blade. 

Poivraile resend)les piquante sauce very 
closely, differing from it, however, by the 
addition of wine and higher flav^oring. To 
mak(^ it, fry an onion and a small carrot cut 
fine, a tomato sliced, and an ounce of lean 
ham in two ounces of butter; let them 
brown slightly ; then add to them half a 
])int of claret, a bou(piet of lierl)s, tw^o cloves, 
and six peppercorns; let them simmer till 
the wine is reduced one half ; then add half 
a pint of good Spanish sauce, boil gently ten 



BROWN SAUCES. 37 

minutes, strain, and serve very liot. A true 
French poivrade has a soujxjon of garlic, ob- 
tained l)v ruljbing a crust on a clove of it, 
and simmering it in the sauce before strain- 
ing it ; but although many would like the 
scarcely perceptible zest imparted by this 
cautious use of garlic, no one should try the 
experiment unless sure of her company. 

A "bouquet of herbs" always means two 
sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, one of mar- 
joram, and a bay-leaf, so rolled together (the 
bay-leaf in the middle) and tied that there 
is no dilRculty in removing it from any dish 
wdiich is not to be strained. 

The well-known Bordelaise sauce is sim- 
ply Spanish sauce with the addition of white 
wine and shallots. Scald a tablespoonful of 
chopped shallots ; put them to half a pint 
of Chablis, Sauterne, or any similar wdiite 
wine ; let the wine reduce to one gill ; then 
mix w^ith it half a pint of Spanish sauce and 
the sixth part of a saltspoonful of pepper. 
Strain and serve. 



38 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Robert sauce, that excellent adjunct to 
beefsteak, varies again from Bordelaise, vine- 
gar and mustard and fried onions taking the 
place of the wine and shallot. Chop three 
medium-sized onions quite fine ; fry them in 
a tablespoonful of butter until they are a 
clear yellowish - brown, stirring tiiem con- 
stantly as they fry ; drain them, and put 
them to a half -pint of Spanish sauce, to 
which you add a wineglass of stock (to allow 
for boiling away) ; simmer gently twenty min- 
utes ; add a pinch of pepper ; strain ; then mix 
a teaspoonful of vinegar in a cup with a tea- 
spoonful of mustard ; stir this into the sauce. 

Sauce a la Normande is one of the most 
delicious sauces for baked fish of any kind, 
although usually associated with sole. To 
half a pint of Spanish sauce add a dozen 
mushrooms sliced in half, a dozen small oys- 
ters with the beards removed, and a dozen 
crawfish, if they are to be had, or their place 
may be taken by a tablespoonful of shrimps 
picked (canned shrimps, washed and dried, an- 



BROWN SAUCES. 39 

swer very well), one tablespoonf al of essence 
of anchovy, and just a dust of Cayenne pepper. 

Light Normande is made by using be- 
chamel instead of Spanish sauce, adding all 
the other materials ; it is then a pale salmon- 
colored sauce, excellent for boiled fish. 

A favorite English sauce for fish, which is 
also brown or pink, according to whether it 
is intended for baked or boiled fish, is the 
Doivnton sauce. To three quarters of a 
pint of bechamel add a dessertspoonful of 
anchovy essence and a small wineglass of 
sherry, mix well, and serve. 

Orange sauce for game is made with half 
a pint of Spanish sauce boiled five minutes 
to make it rather thicker than usual, the 
juice of three sweet oranges, and the peel of 
one. This peel must be so thinly pared as 
to be transparent. Boil this peel half an 
hour in water, then shred it into fine even 
strips half an inch long, and not thicker than 
broom straw. Stew this shredded peel an- 
other half -hour in a gill of stock, with a 



40 CHOICE COOKERY. 

scant teaspoonful of sugar; then add it to 
the sauce, with half a saltspoonful of salt, 
and boil five minutes. 

Matelote may come in with the brown 
sauces, although it is not made with Spanish 
sauce as a foundation, but only with strong 
stock. It is used to simmer fish in when di- 
rected to be a la matelote^ and if it were al- 
ready thickened the whole would burn. It 
is made as follows : Half a pint of Sauterne 
or Chablis, half a pint of rich stock, two bay- 
leaves, three leaves of tarragon, chervil, and 
chive, a scant saltspoonful of salt, a quarter 
one of pepper; simmer these until reduced 
to one half -pint. A touch of garlic is indis- 
pensable to the true matelote, Imt when used 
it must be done with the greatest caution ; a 
fork stuck into a clove of it, then stirred in 
the sauce (the fork, when withdrawn, not the 
garlic), or a crust rubbed once across a piece of 
it, is the only way in which it should be used. 

Like the white sauces, the family of brown 
ones is very large, but I have given those 



BROWN SAUCES. 41 

which require special directions. Others are 
simply Spanish sauce with the addition of 
tlie infi:redient which o;ives its name to it, as 
brown oyster sauce is simply Spanish sauce 
with oysters, celery sauce, mushroom sauce, 
and so on. It should always be remembered 
that the consistency must be preserved ; that 
is to say, except wdien special mention is 
made of the sauce being thinner, it should 
'' mask the spoon," and if the addition made to 
it is of a kind to dilute it, as mushrooms and 
part of their liquor, it must be rapidly boiled 
down to the original thickness. In the same 
wa}", when ingredients have to be simmered 
in the sauce — and this is very often the case 
— then a wineglassf ul or half one of broth or 
stock should be allowed for the wasting. 

In the next chapter we will make acquaint- 
ance with the miscellaneous sauces which 
are not built on the foundation of either 
white or brown sauce. These are chiefly 
cold sauces, although served with hot dishes 
at times, as Tartare, Remoulade, etc. 



Y. 

COLD SAUCES. 

Cold dishes^ which are such a pleasing 
feature of foreign cookery, are much neg- 
lected with us, at least in private kitchens, 
or they are limited to two or three articles 
served in mayonnaise, or a galantine, yet 
the dishes w^hich the French call chaud- 
froicls are both delicious and ornamental, 
and it only requires a little taste, care, and 
2?erfect sauce to convert the ordinary cold 
chicken, turkey, or game into an elaborate 
and choice dish. 

Among cold sauces, of course mayonnaise, 
both green, red, and yellow, reigns supreme ; 
indeed, of late years it has become almost 
hackneyed. Yet no work on choice eat- 
ing would be complete without the different 
forms of mayonnaise. 



COLD SAUCES. 43 

Mayonnaise is one of those sauces in which 
everything depends on care, and very little 
on skill, and yet some women have quite a 
reputation for making it among their friends 
who often declare how unsuccessful their 
own efforts have been, and that to succeed 
is a gift. It is not as a novelty, therefore, 
that the manner of making it is given here, 
but that those who believe they have not 
the "magic fingers" may take courage and 
try again. 

First of all let me explain what seems to 
puzzle many. I have been frequently asked, 
" How much oil can I use to two eggs T the 
answer is, " As much as you choose ;" or, 
again, ''How many eggs ought I to take to 
a quart of oil ?" again the answer is, '' One, 
two, three, or four." The egg is only a 
foundation, and mayonnaise will " come " no 
better with two yolks than one, although 
some chefs consider it keeps better when 
two eggs are used to a pint of oil. 

A cool room is always insisted on for mak- 



44 CHOICE COOKERY. 

ing the sauce, but to the amateur I say, oil, 
eggs, and bowl also, should be put in the ice- 
box until well chilled, and even then mishaps 
may come from using a warm spoon from a 
hot kitchen draAver or closet ; that, therefore, 
must be cool also. Of course it is often suc- 
cessfuil}^ made Avith only the usual precau- 
tion of a cool room, but with ever^^thing 
well chilled it is hard to fail. 

If very little of the sauce is wanted, one 
yolk of egg will be better than two. Sepa- 
rate the yolks very carefully, allowing not a 
speck of white to remain; remove also the 
germ which is attached to the yolk. Stir 
the yolk at least a minute hefore beginning to 
add oil ; then arrange your bottle or a sharp- 
spouted pitcher in your left hand so that it 
rests on the edge of the bowl, and you can 
keep up a pretty steady drop, drop, into the 
egg^ while you stir with your right steadily. 
The oil must be added drop b}^ drop, but 
this does not mean a drop every two or 
three minutes ; you may add a drop to every 



COLD SAUCES. 45 

one or two circuits of the spoon. The rea- 
son for adding it slowly is that each drop 
may form an emulsion with the egg before 
more goes in. After two or three minutes 
look carefully at the mixture ; if it has not 
begun to look pale and opaque, but retains a 
dark, oily appearance, stir it steadily for two 
minutes, and then add oil slowh^, drop by 
drop, stirring all the time. If it has not now 
begun to thicken, it probably will not ; but 
the materials are not lost. Put the yolk of 
another egg into a cool bowl, and begin 
again using the egg and oil you have already 
mixed, in place of fresh oil. When this is 
all used, proceed with the oil (it is hoped, 
however, that the work will have proceeded 
without the necessity for beginning afresh). 
"\Yhen the mayonnaise becomes quite thick, 
use a few drops of vinegar to thin it ; then 
more oil, until safficient sauce is made. Then 
white pepper and salt should be added for 
seasoning. The vinegar used should be very 
strong, so that very little of it will be suffi- 



46 CHOICE COOKERY. 

cient to give the necessary acidity, without 
making it too thin. This is especially the 
case Avhen the sauce is required to mask 
salad. It should for this purpose be set on 
ice until firm, but in all cases be kept cold. 
The best mayonnaise, left in a Avarm kitchen, 
would separate and become oily. The stir- 
ring must be steady and constant, and the 
task must not be left until completed. 

Mayonnaise is the basis of several other 
sauces, so that in accomplishing it a great 
deal is done. 

Green mayonnaise is made by dropping a 
bunch of parsley into boiling water, and in a 
minute or two, when it becomes intensely 
green, take it up, pound it in a mortar, and 
then through a sieve. Use as much pulp as 
will color the sauce a delicate green. 

Ked mayonnaise, used for cardinal salad 
and other purposes, is made by pounding 
lobster coral very fine and stirring it in. It 
must not be forgotten that anything added 
to mayonnaise must be ice-cold. 



COLD SAUCES. 47 

Aspic mayonnaise is another form of the 
sauce, used in dressing cokl dishes, and while 
more delicious than the usual sauce, will keep 
its form for hours after the dish is dressed. 
It is absolutely necessary to prepare it on 
ice. Put half a pint of stiff aspic jelly into 
a bowl set in cracked ice, whisk it Avith an 
egg-beater until it is a white froth (usually 
the motion will melt it, but to save labor it 
may be set in lukewarm water to soften, 
then beaten, but no oil must be added until 
it is again ice-cold froth) ; then beat in very 
gradually a quarter of a pint of olive oil 
and a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, pro- 
ceeding with the same care as for the usual 
mayonnaise ; add a saltspoonful of salt, a 
pinch of pepper, and the same of powdered 
sugar. 

Noricecjian sauce is preferred by many to 
Tartare for some purposes, and is made by 
adding /ms/i/y grated horseradish to mayon- 
naise in the proportion of two tablespoonfuls 
to half a pint. 



48 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Tartare sauce is mayonnaise with the ad- 
dition of mustard, chives, pickles, and tarra- 
gon, chopped. As usually served, it has only 
mustard and capers or chopped cucumber, 
but for those to whom a slight flavor of 
onion is not disagreeable, chives should be 
added. To half a pint of mayonnaise use a 
teaspoonful of dry mustard mixed with two 
of tarragon vinegar, then stir into the sauce. 
To this add a tablespoonful either of capers 
or chopped pickled cucumber ; this is the 
usual Tartare sauce ; but the French recipe 
is a tablespoonful of very finely chopped 
chives, a teaspoonful each of fresh tarragon 
and chervil in place of the pickles. 

Cold euciomher sauce is mayonnaise with 
an equal quantity of grated cucumber, 
drained, pressed, and stirred into it, with a 
saltspoonful of salt and a few drops of very 
strong vinegar. 

Horseradish sauce is a very good sauce for 
hot or cold beef, roast or boiled. Grate three 
tablespoonfuls of horseradish fine, put to it 



COLD SAUCES. 49 

a teaspoonf ul of sugar, one of salt, and one 
of vinegar, or a tablespoonful of Chablis 
wine ; let them soak an hour or two, and the 
last thing before serving stir in four table- 
spoonfuls of cream that is whipped very 
solid. A half-teaspoonf ul of dry mustard is 
sometimes mixed with the horseradish, but 
that is a matter of taste. When the sauce 
is to be served hot, two yolks of egg and 
two tablespoonfuls of water must be substi- 
tuted for cream, which would curdle. The 
water, horseradish, etc., must first come to 
the boiling-point, then the eggs added grad- 
ually, and just allowed to thicken, not to 
boil. 

Mint Sauce. — Take only the young, tender 
leaves, not a bit of stem, and chop very fine 
indeed. To two tablespoonfuls add a table- 
spoonful and a half of brown sugar and three 
of vinegar. It should be quite thick, not as 
we so often see it — vinegar with a few bits 
of mint floating around. 

Hint JeUy for masking cold lamb or cut- 
4 



50 CHOICE COOKERY. 

lets. — Take two tablespoonfuls of Spanish 
sauce, and dissolve in it a <^ood teaspoonful 
of gelatine softened in cold stock, a table- 
spoonful of aspic, and one of thick mint 
sauce. If no aspic is ready, it is not worth 
while to make for the small quantity needed ; 
a teaspoonful of glaze, two of gelatine, and 
half a wineglass of Sauterne may be dis- 
solved together to take its place. ]^o gela- 
tine will be needed with the Spanish sauce 
in this case. 

Sweet sauces will be left until the desserts 
are treated of. 



YI. 

SOUPS. 

It is not proposed to give the soups to be 
found readily in most cooking-books in these 
pages, but only those less known or of pecul- 
iar excellence. 

It is supposed that the reader understands 
the making of good beef or veal stock, and 
perhaps the usual way of clearing it. But 
since cooking has been studied scientifically, 
improvements on methods have been intro- 
duoed ; one of these is the clearing of soup 
with albumen of meat instead of egg. The 
advantages of this method are that the soup 
is strengthened and the flavor improved, while 
clearing with whites of eggs in the usual way, 
though greatly improving the appearance, 
tends to lessen the flavor of soup. 

To clear Consomme with Beef. — Con- 



52 CHOICE COOKERY. 

somme is reduced stock, or stock made of ex- 
tra strength. Carefully remove all fat from 
three pints of it when cold. It will, of course, 
be a stiff jelly. Chop fine an onion, a carrot, 
and a turnip. Chop half a j)ound of lean beef 
from which all fat is removed ; this is best 
put through a chopping-machine, as it must 
be very fine. Put the consomme, meat, and 
vegetables into a saucepan. Stir them brisk- 
ly till just on the boiling-point. Eemove the 
spoon, let the soup boil up well one minute. 
It should now be clear. Take a clean cloth, 
fix it on a soup stand or in a colander, pour 
boiling water through it, to warm it thorough- 
ly ; throw the water aAvay, and pour the soup 
gently through the cloth twice ; do not press 
or stir it. It will be beautifully clear and of 
excellent color. It is now ready to serve for 
a variety of soups, named according to what 
is served in them. 

Consomme a la Rachel. — This is consomme 
to which is added tiny quenelles made in egg- 
spoons, and colored red, green, and black. 



SOUPS. 53 

Quenelle meat is made from the uncooked 
breast of chicken or game, the backs of hares 
or rabbits (or it may be made for certain 
purposes of fish or very white veal), first 
chopped, and then pounded in a mortar until 
it is a perfectly smooth paste. Mere chopped 
meat is not Avhat is required ; it must be 
fine enougfh to o^o tlirouo^h a sieve. For 
Consomme a la Eachel, however, the breast 
of chicken is necessary. Take four ounces 
of chicken, free from skin and sinew ; pound 
it until quite smooth ; the more it is pounded 
the better it is. Mix with it thick cream, a 
scant salt spoonful of salt, very little pepper, 
and half a beaten egg, until it is a softish 
paste, yet firm enough to mould ; mix thor- 
oughly. Now try a little by poaching in a 
teaspoon; that is, fill a teaspoon with the 
mixture, pressing it in form, then drop it into 
boiling water for three minutes. Open the 
quenelle and taste it ; if it is creamy, light, 
and well flavored, it is right, but if there is 
the least toughness, add a little more cream 



54 CHOICE COOKERY. 

to the mixture. JS'otice also the seasoning; 
if more salt is needed, add it carefully, and 
try again, till you have the quenelle mixture 
just right, that is to say, creamy, light, very 
tender, yet keeping its form. At present 
quenelles as entrees or for soups form such 
an important part of fine cooking that it is 
worth while to get the mixture perfect for 
other purposes than the present. 

Having your quenelle meat ready, proceed 
to vary it as follows, allowing one quenelle 
of each color to each guest : For the green 
quenelles use sufficient pounded tarragon to 
color one third the meat delicately. For the 
second use sufficient lobster coral pounded to 
redden it. The third must be made dark 
with pounded truffies. Great care must be 
taken to keep the three portions separate, so 
that one color may not injure the other. To 
form them use two very small coffeespoons 
or eggspoons, as the quenelles should not be 
larger than small olives ; butter the spoons 
slightly, and when formed drop each for one 



SOUPS. 55 

or two minutes into boiling pale-colored stock. 
Drop til em, as they are done, into cold water, 
in which they must be kept until you are 
ready to use them. When the soup is to be 
served, drain them, lay the number required 
in the tureen, and pour the boiling consomme 
on them. They will not require heating in 
the soup. It may be observed that raw spin- 
ach pounded and rubbed through a sieve, 
and boiled red beet, may be used to color 
the meat green and red, and the rest left 
white. The consomme is then called Con- 
somme d' Orleans. 

Consomme aux (Eufs files. — Put one quart 
of cleared consomme to boil. ]\Iix one effo", 
one dessertsj^oonful of flour, one tablespoon- 
ful of milk, a pinch between forefinger and 
thumb of salt, and a dust of pepper, into a 
batter, rub a nutmeg once back and forth 
over the grater, and stir. When the soup 
boils, pass this batter through a fine strainer 
into it. It should look like threads. 

Consomme d la Sevigne. — Pound two 



56 CHOICE COOKERY. 

ounces of breast of cooked chicken until it 
will pass through a wide sieve. Mix with it 
two eggs, three tablespoonfuls of milk, 
twelve drops of almond essence, a scant 
saltspoonful of salt, as much nutmeg as will 
go on the end of a penknife blade, and a dust 
of cayenne. When well blended, fill three or 
four small round muffin pans, w^ell greased, 
and steam slowly twenty minutes, or until 
set. Turn out very carefully ; let them cool ; 
then cut them into fancy shapes, and serve 
in one quart of boiling consomme. A few 
asparagus points boiled until just tender, but 
not mushy, are to be dropped in the last 
thing. 

Potage d la HoUandaise. — For this Avill be 
required one quart of veal or chicken stock, 
two ounces of butter, one ounce of flour, four 
yolks of eggs, half a pint of cream, one gill 
of green peas, one gill of boiled carrots, one 
gill of boiled cucumber, one teaspoonful of 
fresh tarragon chopped fine, one teaspoonful 
of sugar, and one teaspoonful of salt. Trim 



SOUPS. 57 

the carrots and cucumber with a very small 
scoop or cutter the size and shape of peas ; 
cook them just tender, and no more, in boil- 
ing water. Put the stock on to boil ; skim 
if necessary ; add the salt and sugar. Break 
the eo^D^s into a bowl, add the cream to them, 
and beat them till well mixed. This forms 
a '4iaison." Make the butter and flour into 
a paste in a boAvl, pour half a gill of cold 
stock to it, then enough hot stock to dissolve 
it ; when mixed smooth, stir it into the boil- 
ing: stock, let it boil, then remove from the 
fire, and stir in very carefully, to prevent 
curdling, the liaison of eggs and cream ; let 
it come to the boiling-point, but not boil, or 
it will curdle. Strain it into a clean stew- 
pan, and add the vegetables ; let all get hot 
together; then strew in the tarragon. 

Chestnut Soup {puree de marrons). — Slit 
twenty-five large chestnuts at each end, put 
them in boiling water, and boil ten minutes. 
Drop them into cold water, and remove l)oth 
the outer and inner skin. Melt three ounces 



58 CHOICE COOKERY. 

of butter in a saucepan, put in the chestnuts, 
and saute (toss them about ) for a few minutes, 
but do not bro\yn them ; then add a pint and 
a half of rich white stock, and let the nuts 
boil in it until very tender, when they must 
be rubbed through a fine sieve. Eoil up 
again, add half a pint of cream, a teaspoonf ul 
of powdered sugar, a teaspoonful of salt (less 
if the stock be salted), and a pinch of pepper. 
Princess Soiq). — Cut a chicken in pieces ; 
wash it ; butter a stewpan, put in the chick- 
en with a blade of mace, an onion, a bay- 
leaf, and twelve white peppercorns. Let this 
simmer, closely covered^ ten minutes, shaking 
it often to prevent its browning ; then put to 
it two quarts of hot veal stock, and simmer 
one hour. Put into another stewpan two 
ounces of flour and two ounces of butter; 
stir them together, and let them bubble once, 
then strain the liquor from the chicken to it ; 
stir well, and cook a few minutes. Take the 
Avhite meat from the bones of the chicken, 
pound it in a mortar very fine, stir it to the 



SOUPS. 59 

stock, then rub through a soup strainer ; add 
just before serving half a pint of fresh cream 
and the juice of half a lemon. This soup 
must be made hot, but not boil, after the 
chicken pulp and cream are added. 

Potage a la Boy ale. — Boil two ounces of 
macaroni till tender, but not broken ; throw 
it into cold water. Put three pints of Avhite 
stock to boil ; cut the macaroni into lengths 
half an inch long ; beat three yolks of eggs 
in a bowl with a gill of cream; throw the 
macaroni into the soup ; when it boils, re- 
move from the fire, add the cream and eggs 
and an ounce of grated Parmesan cheese; 
stir till the soup reaches the boiling-point, 
but by no means let it boil, after the cream 
and eggs are added, or it will be spoiled. 
Salt soup always in the proportion of a mod- 
erate teaspoonful of salt to the quart ; if the 
stock is seasoned, only add salt for the cream, 
eggs, etc. Use just a suspicion of cayenne. 
In making soup to which eggs are added, 
the utmost care is required, yet not any more 



60 CHOICE COOKERY. 

than ill making custard. Tlie main point is 
to let the eggs come near enough to the boil- 
ing-point to thicken, yet far enough from it 
not to curdle. This a little patience will ac- 
complish by watching and removing the 
saucepan for a few seconds as the boiling- 
point approaches, then returning it ; do this 
once or twice, till the opaque, creamy appear- 
ance shows the eggs are done. 



YIL 

FISn ENTREES. 

Instead of giving recipes for cooking fish 
whole, for which excellent directions are to 
be found in several modern cookery books, 
recipes for fish entrees will be substituted. 
They are now frequently served at the fish 
course, and by their convenience and econ- 
omy, as well as the variety they afford, are 
likely to grow in favor. Another point for 
them is that they can often be made hours 
before, and simply heated when needed, thus 
relieving the cook of the most critical part 
of her work at the time when she needs her 
attention free. 

Some of these entrees will be more suited 
for breakfast, luncheon, or supper dishes than 
to precede a heavy dinner, such, for instance, 
as the preparations of oysters when they 



62 CHOICE COOKERY. 

have been also served before soup; but the 
recipes are included here for their intrinsic 
worth. 

Fillets of Cod a la Normande. — Butter a 
tin dish, lay on it three slices of cod moder- 
ately thick (an. inch to an inch and a half), 
pour over them one wineglass of white wine, 
place a buttered paper over them, and bake 
in a moderate oven fifteen minutes. Eeduce 
another glass of wine in a stewpan by sim- 
mering, add to it half a pint of white sauce, 
twelve small oysters, bearded and blanched, 
twelve small quenelles,'*^ and twelve button 
mushrooms. Season with pepper and salt. 
Simmer one minute only, or the oysters will 
harden. Place the slices of fish on a hot 
dish, pour the sauce over them, place the 
oysters, mushrooms, and quenelles in groups 
in the corners of the dish. 

Lohster Soufflees. — Cut up the meat of a 
boiled hen lobster into neat dice, showing as 

* See Quenelles in No. VI. 



FISH ENTREES. 63 

much of the red as possible. Prepare as 
many small ramekin or soufflee cases as 
may be required by pinning bands of ^vrit- 
ing-paper round them two to three inches 
higher than the case. Take three table- 
spoonfuls of mayonnaise, half a pint of stiff 
aspic jelly, and a gill of tomato sauce in 
which a teaspoonful of gelatine has been 
dissolved. Every utensil used must be ice- 
cold, the jelly must be quite cold, but not set. 
Put the tomato sauce, the jelly, and the may- 
onnaise (which should be left on the ice till 
the last thing) into a bowl set in another 
bowl of pounded ice ; whisk them together 
until they begin to look white ; then stir the 
lobster in it, with a teaspoonful of very fine- 
ly chopped chervil and tarragon ; fill the 
soufilee cases, piling the dressing high ; put 
them on a dish on ice. When they are " set," 
carefully remove the paper bands, sprinkle a 
little dried and sifted lobster coral over the 
tops, and serve. 

CoqxLilles of Prawns. — Pick the shells 



64 CHOICE COOKERY. 

from four dozen prawns; mix Avith one 
third the quantity of mushrooms slightly 
stewed in a tablespoonful of butter and a 
saltspoonful of salt (the mushrooms must 
not be brown); add four tablespoonfuls of 
Allemande sauce ;'^ fill the shells, which must 
be well buttered, dress each over with fine 
bread crumbs which have been carefully fried 
a golden brown ; put them in a cool oven 
twenty minutes, only get thoroughly hot, 
but not to cook. 

Coquilles of Salmon or Halibut. — Take 
one pound of cold halibut or salmon ; break 
it into small pieces; put it in a stewpan 
with half a saltspoonful of salt and a tiny 
pinch of pepper, and half a pint of white 
sauce, a tablespoonful of very thick cream,, 
and a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce; stir 
well, and let all get hot. Butter some shells, 
sprinkle over with a few fried crumbs, fill 
with the mixture, cover with the fried 

* See directions in No. II. 



FISH EXTREES. '65 

crumbs, and put them in the oven to get 
thoroughly hot. Serve on a napkin. 

Salmon en Papillotes. — Cut some slices of 
salmon into cutlets the right size for serving, 
make paper cases to fit them, then cover 
each slice with the following mixture : two 
tablespoonfuls of salad oil beaten Avith the 
yolk of an egg, one teaspoonful of parsley 
chopped, one shallot chopped, and one an- 
chovy (all tliese must be chopped as finely 
as possible), a half-saltspoonful of salt, and 
a grain of cayenne ; mix, spread on the fish, 
envelop each piece in a well-buttered case, 
fasten up (by pinching the paper well), and 
bake half an hour. Serve in the papers. 

Fillet of Sole d la Normande. — In speak- 
ing of sole, one of course means the flounder, 
which is coming to be called the American 
sole, and when filleted does make a fair sub- 
stitute for the real thing,, and it is suitable 
for cooking in every way that the English 
sole can be used, except whole. A boiled 
flounder without filleting, or a flounder fried 
5 



66 CHOICE COOKEBY. 

whole, AS is so often done with sole, would 
be very coarse. Fillet two flounders (in 
cities this will be done by the fishmonger, 
but in the country it may have to be done 
in the kitchen, therefore directions for doing 
it will be appended), lay the fillets, neatly 
trimmed and shaped, into a thickly buttered 
pan or dish — either fire-proof porcelain or 
any other that can go to table — pour over 
them a glass of sheri^y and four tablespoon- 
fuls of consomme ; cover with oiled paper, 
and bake ten minutes in a moderate oven ; 
take out the pan, pour over the fillets half a 
pint of sauce Nonnande ; return to the oven 
for five minutes, and serve in the pan. 

Sole a Vllorly. — Make a frying batter 
thus: mix one tablespoonful of milk with 
two ounces of flour and a tablespoonful of 
salad oil to a smooth paste ; then add two 
yolks of eggs, and the whites whipped firm, 
with a quarter of a saltspoonf ul of salt ; mix 
with an upward movement of the spoon, so 
as not to deaden the whites of eggs. Set it 



FISH ENTREES. 67 

nside while \^ou prepare the sole. Mix a 
tablespoonful of salad oil, a teaspoonful of 
Chili vinegar, a teaspoonful of tarragon vine- 
gar, a teaspoonful of parsley and one of onion 
chopped exceedingly fine, a scant saltspoon- 
f ul of salt, and a quarter one of pepper. Mix 
all together, then cut the fillets in half, trim- 
ming away all ragged appearance, and lay 
them for fifteen minutes in the mixture 
(called a marinade) ; take them out, drain 
them on a sieve, and then dip each fillet in 
the batter. This batter should be just thick 
enough to coat the fish and run slowly off, 
not cling in a thick paste round it. A French 
rule for testing the thickness of frying batter 
is to dip a spoon in it and then let a drop run 
off the end on a plate ; if it drops freely, yet 
keeps a beadlike form, it is right. Fry each 
fillet in a wire basket three minutes in very 
Iiot deep fat. Serve with fried parsley. 

Turlcuis of Sole a la Bouennaise. — As 
these require a little of the same mixture as 
would be used for lobster cutlets or cro- 



68 CHOICE COOKERY. 

quettes, it is good management to have them 
when lobster is required for something else. 
The mixture for the cutlets is made as fol- 
lows (less than a fourth of it would be re- 
quired for the turbans) : remove all the flesh 
from a boiled hen lobster; chop it small; 
wash, dry, and pound the coral, with an 
ounce of butter ; take one gill of white sauce, 
mix the lobster coral and a tablespoonful of 
cream with it, and boil five minutes ; mix in 
the lobster with a little salt (unless the lob- 
ster is salt enough) and a grain of cayenne. 
This made into cutlets, egged, crumbed, and 
fried, is excellent, but our purpose now is to 
use it for stuffing. Take as many fillets of 
sole as required, spread the lobster mixture 
on each, roll them up, run a toothpick 
through them to keep them in shape ; trim 
till each will stand ; put them on a buttered 
baking-sheet, cover with buttered paper, and 
bake ten minutes. Chop up two truffles, two 
hard-boiled yolks of eggs, and a tablespoon- 
ful of parsley, each chopped separately. Take 



FISH ENTKEES. 69 

up the turbans, pour over them half a pint of 
cardinal sauce, and ornament the turbans, 
one with the truffles, one with the yolk of 
egg, and one with parsle}^ ; so on alternately. 
Directions for Filleting Flounders. — Take 
a sharp knife, cut away the fins all round the 
fish, and split the flounder right down the 
middle of the back, then run the knife care- 
fully between the flesh and bones, going toAv- 
ards the edge. You have now detached 
one quarter of the flesh from the bone ; do 
the other half in the same way, and when 
the back is thus entirely loose from the bone, 
turn the fish over and do the same with the 
other side. You will now find you can re- 
move the bone whole from the fish, detach- 
ing, as you do so, any flesh still retaining the 
bone. Then you have two halves of the fish, 
and you have four quarters of solid fish. To 
remove the skin, take the tail end firmly be- 
tween the thumb and forefinger of the left 
hand, hold the skin side downward on the 
board, and with 3"our knife make an incision 



70 CHOICE COOKEKY. 

across the flesh, then, keeping the skin firm- 
ly between your thumb and finger, push the 
knife between it and the flesh, shghtly hu- 
moring it to prevent tearing the flesh. The 
skin parts quite easily, but no attempt must 
be made to cut the fish from it. 



YIII. 

VARIOUS WAYS OF SERVING OYSTERS. 
Oysters a la Yilleroi. — Scald (or blancli) 
some large oysters, dry them, then drop 
them into some very thick Yilleroi sauce,* let 
them get hot in it, but not boil. Take them 
out one by one ; be sure they are thickly coat- 
ed with the sauce ; have a large dish heaped 
with sifted crumbs or cracker meal ; as you 
lift each oyster from the sauce lay it on the 
meal, turn it gently over in the meal, so that 
a light coat adheres, and the sauce is by no 
means rubbed off. Place them on an oiled 
plate where they will get quite cold, so that 
the sauce may chill and form a whitish glaze 
under the crumbs. Beat two eggs with two 
tablespoonfuls of water, and when free from 

* See No. II. 



72 CHOICE COOKERY. 

strings dip each 03^ster in the egg, using a 
small fork ; let superfluous egg drip off for a 
moment, then lay the oyster again on a deep 
bed of cracker crumbs, cover well, pat very 
gently, and lay each as you do it on a dish 
sprinkled with them. Fry two minutes in 
very hot deej) fat, being careful the oysters 
do not touch each other. 

If I have made these directions as clear as 
I hope, it will be understood that each oyster 
has a rich creamy coating under the crumbs, 
and every effort must be made to avoid break- 
ing the outer shell of egg and crumb. For 
this reason the fat should be heated to 400°. 
But although great care in handling is neces- 
sar}^, they are not difficult to succeed with 
when that care is given. 

Oyster Kahohs. — There are two ways of 
preparing these dainties, and I give both. 
For those who cannot eat bacon the first will 
probably be acceptable. For kabobs of any 
kind, silver or plated skewers are proper, al- 
though very slender wooden ones may bo 



VARIOUS WAYS OF SERVING OYSTERS. 73 

used. Put in a stewpan a small onion chopped 
very fine, a dessertspoonful of parsley, and a 
dozen mushrooms, also chopped ; let these fry 
one minute in a large tablespoonful of but- 
ter, add a dessertspoonful (scant) of flour, 
stir all together, then drop in as many fat 
oysters as are required ; they must have been 
blanched in their own liquor and the beards 
removed ; stir all round, and add three beat- 
en yolks of eggs, one at a time, taking care 
they do not curdle, but get just thick enough 
to cling round the oyster. String six oys- 
ters on each little skewer, basting ^vith the 
sauce wherever it does not adhere ; let each 
skew^er cool, then roll the w^hole in beaten 
eggs and abundant cracker meal, so that the 
skewer will seem to be run through a sausage 
lengthwise. Fry two minutes in very hot 
deep fat, serve on a napkin ; allow one skew- 
er to each person. Two minutes, if the fat 
be sufficiently hot, Avill fry oysters a pale 
yellow-brown. They should never take long- 
er than this, for oysters harden and shrink if 



74 CHOICE COOKERY. 

overdone in the least. For this reason the 
use of a pyrometer, when possible, saves mis- 
takes and trouble. Such articles as oysters, 
smelts, or any small things, should be fried 
at a temperature of 380° to 400°. It must 
be remembered that all fried articles darken 
after they leave the frying-kettle, and there- 
fore a very pale yellow becomes a golden 
color on the dish. 

Kabobs No. 2. — This is the recipe given by 
the author of the well-known Pytchley Books, 
and is admirable. Take the beards from as 
many fat, fair-sized oysters as required. You 
require bacon of which the fat is thick enough 
through to allow of circles being cut from the 
slices as large as the oysters. Cut the bacon 
very thin, get a cutter the size of the oj^sters, 
trim them with it, then cut eight circles of ba- 
con for six oysters. Put first a piece of ba- 
con, then an oyster, then more bacon, on each 
little skewer, till there are six oysters with 
a piece of bacon between each through the 
centre and one at each end ; string them very 



VARIOUS WAYS OF SERVING OYSTERS. 75 

evenly. Take a very little cayenne on the 
tip of a knife and a saltspoonful of salt ; 
mix this with two beaten eggs to which two 
tablespoonfuls of water have been added. 
Dip each skewer of kabobs in this ; let them 
drip an instant, then lay them on a deep bed 
of crumbs or cracker meal. Cover them thor- 
oughly, shake them, then dip again into the 
egg (if this has become full of crumbs strain 
it), and again lay them in the meal. Shake 
lightly again, and arrange each skewer of ka- 
bobs in a frying-basket, and fry two minutes. 
I have spoken in the foregoing directions 
for " crumbing " of using 2>lenty of meal, and 
experience tells me that the rule with those 
unfamiliar with proper methods is to use so 
little that a plateful would be considered 
jplenty. AYith this quantity no good work 
can be done. You need to turn on to a 
board or dish at least a quart of crumbs, or 
a whole box of cracker meal. This will en- 
able you to smother the article until every 
part is covered, instead of sprinkling a little 



76 CHOICE COOKERY. 

over and under (which generally falls off as 
fast as put on, and leaves a surface yellow 
with egg in parts), as you must do if a small 
quantity only is used. All the meal that is 
left must be carefully sifted and put away. 
If the small masses of egg and crumb which 
will be mixed with it are not sifted out the 
cracker-meal cannot be used again. There 
must also be plenty of egg used for dipping. 
Ousters in Aspic. — For these dariole moulds 
are needed, or tlie small fire-proof china souf- 
flee cases which imitate paper may be used. 
A dariole is a small straight-sided tin mould, 
holding rather less than a gill. They will 
be found at large house-furnishing stores, or 
a tinman could easily make them, they be- 
ing, in fact, like deep corn-muffin pans. If 
they are made to order, avoid getting them 
too large — three inches deep by two across 
will be large enough. Fill these moulds with 
aspic jelly nearly cold, set them on ice while 
you prepare the oysters, which must be beard- 
ed and cooked till plump in butter, but not 



VARIOUS WAYS OF SERVING OYSTERS. 77 

allowed to color. "When cool, cut them in 
half, throw them into some stiff bechamel," 
which must be warmed till like thick cream, 
sprinkle with a dust of cayenne ; lay the oys- 
ters to get cold, that the bechamel may hard- 
en on them. Scoop the centre very careful- 
ly out of the moulds of aspic, leaving a half- 
inch thickness all round, fill the centres with 
the oysters, pour in more aspic, cold, but not 
set, and put on ice for a few hours, or till 
ready to serve. The aspic from the centres 
should have been preserved and used to chop 
with more to garnish the dish. Turn the 
moulds out very carefully, and garnish with 
chopped aspic and watercress or parsley. 

It is, of course, understood that bechamel 
sauce, cold, is like blanc-mange, and that any- 
thing coated with it will be enveloped in white 
jelly, not in a sticky white sauce. If bechamel 
does not become white jelly wlien cold the 
stock of which it is made is not stiif enough. 

Lobster hi A-^pic is prepared as for salad, 

* Sec No. II. 



78 CHOICE COOKERY. 

the solid meat cut in dice and rolled in may- 
onnaise, then in chopped chervil or parsley. 
Then proceed exactly as for the oysters. 

Oysters d la Tartare. — The oyster-shells 
for serving oj^sters a la Tartare must be of 
good shape and exquisitely clean ; therefore, 
when using oysters on the half -shell, always 
pick out any that may be deep yet stand 
well, and have a good shape ; scald and scrub 
them, and keep for use. Scald as many fat 
oysters as required in their own liquor till 
firm — three minutes at boiling-point will usu- 
ally do this ; the oysters must be just plump, 
yet if underdone they will be flabby. Put 
them on ice, choose as many tiny leaves as 
you have oysters from the heart of a lettuce ; 
they must all be of a size, or trimmed so, and 
the size only just large enough to line tlie 
shells without coming over them. Lay a 
leaf on each shell, cut each oyster in half, 
lay four halves in pyramid fashion on the 
lettuce leaf, and mask the top of each, just 
before serving, with Tartare sauce. Allow 
two to each person. 



IX. 

VARIOUS CULIXARY MATTERS. 

This little book does not pretend to go into 
what may be called tlie principles of cooking, 
except in so far as they are involved in the 
production of all choice cookery ; and where 
it is considered that a principle is little known 
oi' too little attended to, the effort will be 
made to give it emphasis by reiteration here. 

By principles of cooking I mean the sim- 
ple rules by which roasting, boihng, stew- 
ing, etc., are successfully accomplished. Any 
book or series of articles written a dozen 
years ago would have been of no real use 
without these rudiments, but within that pe- 
riod there liave been cooking-schools start- 
(h1 and cookery books written so exceeding- 
ly exact in directions that it will be unneces- 
sary to repeat them in " Clioice Cookery,''' 



80 CHOICE COOKERY. 

^vhicli does not pretend to include family 
cooking. 

For this reason the cooking of joints of 
meat will not be entered into. Xevertheless 
there are certain rudiments of cooking which 
are not dwelt on usually in books. They are 
taught in the cooking-schools, and those of 
my readers who have had the advantage of 
attending them Avill not need the instruction 
here given. But I meet with many women 
who devote much time to the art of cooking, 
and who have taught themselves by book and 
experiment all they know, who yet, when told 
to chop a small quantity of herbs very fine, 
will struggle and chop almost leaf by leaf in 
their faithful endeavor to carry out the di- 
rection. Others, less faithful, finding their 
method chops some parts fine and leaves 
some leaves almost whole, let it go at that, 
with the reflection that " that must do, as it 
would take all day " to get them all one de- 
gree of fineness. So, although it may seem 
almost too trivial a point to need mention. 



VARIOUS CULINARY MATTERS. 81 

we will go into the matter of herb-chopping, 
lemon-grating, etc., that the simple opera- 
tions may be performed easily and in a very 
short time. 

To Cho]) Ilerhs. — Use the leaves only, never 
the stems ; let them be fresh and crisp, or, 
if wilted, leave them in water for a time. 
Gather the leaves firmly between the thumb 
and three fingers of the left hand ; shave 
them through with a sharp knife as you push 
them forward under it. (The process reseni- 
bles chaff-cutting by hand machine.) Turn 
them round ; gather them up again, and cut 
across them in the same way ; then finish l^y 
chopping quickly, holding the point of the 
knife with the left hand and bringing it down 
on the little heap of herbs with the right, al- 
Avays gathering them together as fast as the 
chopping scatters them. Five minutes will 
chop a tablespoonful of mint or parsley al- 
most to pulp. A sharp steel knife and a 
small board must be used, not the chopping- 
bowl. 
r, 



83 CHOICE COOKERY. 

French books often direct so much fine 
herbs to be used ; Enghsh books mean the 
same thing when they call for " sweet herbs," 
and a mixture of one part marjoram, two 
parts thyme, and three parts parsley is meant 
by both. 

The grating of a lemon is a most simple 
operation, and it may seem that every one 
must know how to do it ; but this is far from 
being the case. As many dishes of curdled 
custards and sauces are caused by this fact, 
the right way in this case is very important. 
The object of using grated rind of lemon is 
to obtain the fragrance and flavor, which dif- 
fer very greatly from any extracts, however 
good. Now the whole of the oil which con- 
tains this fragrance is at the surface — is, in 
fact, the yellow portion of the rind ; therefore 
this, and only this, must be removed with 
the grater. The white part underneath is 
bitter, and will cause milk or cream to curdle, 
but it contains no particle of lemon flavor. 
Yet when lemon flavor is called for the 



VARIOUS CULINARY MATTERS. 83 

lemon is often grated right down to the pulp 
in parts, while the yellow rind is left on in 
patches. 

A lemon should be grated evenly, begin- 
ning at the end and working round it, using 
as small a surface of the grater as possible, 
to prevent waste. The habit of turning the 
lemon as you grate comes as easily as to turn 
an apple under the knife when peeling. Gen- 
erally twice across the grater and back be- 
tween each turn Avill remove all the essential 
oil, but, while guarding against grating too 
deeply, care must be taken to remove the 
whole of the yellow surface. A well-grated 
lemon should be exactly of the same shape as 
before, have no deep scores into the pith, and 
have an oily-looking surface. 

Perhaps before proceeding to the prepa- 
ration of the combination dishes known as 
made dishes or entrees, a few words may be 
useful to those readers whose ambition to ac- 
complish results may cause them to defeat 
their own ends. To such I would say, go 



84 CHOICE COOKERY. 

slowly ; never attempt the more difficult 
thing until the simpler one is beyond chance 
of failure. Thus in following the instructions 
in this book the wiser women will have accom- 
plished, perhaps, each week one or two things 
they may have selected, and it must not be 
forgotten the plan of tlie work is tliat one 
recipe shall serve as a key to many others. 

A great many will very likely have delayed 
trying to make the sauces until the dish for 
which they will be required is given. This is 
a mistake, because it is less annoying to fail 
with a sauce with no dish dependiug on it, 
than, say, when you have decided to have 
sole a la ViUeroi, the soles being ready, and 
fail with the sauce. 

I hope that no failure will come to any 
one trying the recipes here given, but in 
some cases, especially in sauces thickened 
with eggs, a second's diverted attention may 
cause failure without fault of the cook. There- 
fore it is best to make single experiments 
when there is no danger of being disturbed, 



VARIOUS CULINARY ^lATTERS. 85 

and when there is nothing else to be attended 
to. The successful result need never be lost, 
for in the case of sauces tliey can be reheat- 
ed the next day in a bain-marie, or pan of 
hot water ; the same with the soups, and, in- 
deed, most other things, except soufllees and 
omelets. 

But, above all things, never try a recipe 
for the first time the day you wish it to ap- 
pear perfect on your table ; try it long be- 
fore, and if you fail, make the same thing 
over again, reading the directions very care- 
fully ; some trifling- caution or precaution 
may have escaped you. ]^o one ever learns 
to draw so simple a thing as a circle who is 
discouraged at the first bad curve, and leaves 
it for easier lines. • Keep on at the thing you 
select to do until you succeed, always choos- 
ing and perfecting the easiest thing in each 
class first. 



X. 

ENTRIES. 

Fillet of Beef. — This favorite dish with 
French and Americans may be roasted whole, 
or cut so as to serve individually. To roast 
it whole, it must be trimmed perfectly round, 
and either larded or not as taste may dictate. 
A fillet weighing four pounds should be 
roasted three quarters of an hour in a sharp 
oven. It may then be served a la Chdteaiibri- 
and by pouring over it half a pint of the sauce 
of that name, with horseradish sauce, or 
brown mushroom sauce (brown sauce with 
mushrooms added). 

To serve individually, fillets are prepared 
in the following way : Cut a fillet into eight 
slices three quarters of an inch thick; trim 
the slices into perfect circles, all exactly the 
same size ; flatten them ; put them in a hot 



ENTREES. 87 

pan, and saute for seven or eight minutes in 
two ounces of butter ; dress them round a 
dish, and pour over them the sauce from 
which the dish will take its name. 

Filets de Bceufd la Bearnaise. — Serve with 
half a pint of Bearnaise sauce. 

Filets de Boeiif aux Champignons. — Dress 
as before ; leave in the centre of the dish 
room for a mound of stewed mushrooms ; 
pour over the fillets half a pint of rich brown 
sauce. Serve these dishes as soon as cooked : 
the meat is spoiled by waiting. 

I have received several letters from readers 
living where lobster is only to be had in cans, 
asking^ if there is no substitute for the coral 
in. making cardinal sauce. Canned lobster 
frequently contains a great deal of coral, 
which is as good for coloring and flavoring 
as the fresh. This can only be known, ho^v- 
ev^er, before opening, when the cans are of 
glass. The pulp of red beet-root passed 
through a sieve and added to white sauce or 
mayonnaise gives a beautiful red tint; but 



88 CHOICE COOKERY. 

the flavor, while excellent for a salad or as 
vegetable sauce, would be unsuitable for serv- 
ing with fish. 

Grenadines of Beef with Mushrooms and 
Poivrade Saiice. — Take as many slices of 
fillet of beef, cut three quarters of an inch 
thick, as you require. Trim them to a pear 
shape, three and a half inches long and three 
wide at the broadest part. Lard these with 
bacon, and put them into a saute pan with a 
gill of brown sauce and a glass of sherry 
(half the sauce if there are very few grena- 
dines) ; let them cook gently for fifteen min- 
utes. Dissolve a piece of glaze the size of a 
walnut by putting it in a cup which is set in 
boiling water ; when dissolved, take up the 
grenadines, dish them in a circle, and glaze 
them (a brush is properly used for this pur- 
pose, but the glaze can be spread with a knife 
dipped in hot water). Fill the centre of the 
circle with a pyramid of small mushrooms 
mixed with a gill and a half of poivrade sauce.* 

* See No. IV. 



ENTREES. 89 

Fillets of Beef a la Grande-Bretagne. — Cut 
two pounds of fillet into neat slices an inch 
thick ;■ slit them (with a small French boning- 
knife or small penknife) in such a way that 
you form a pocket in each the mouth or 
opening of which is smaller than the pocket 
itself. This can be done by laying the fillet 
flat on a board, laying your hand on the top 
of it, making a slit two inches wide, then 
with the point of the knife enlarging the 
slit inside, but not the entrance to it. The 
opening should extend half-way through; 
into this put a force-meat made of horserad- 
ish sauce ^ and macaroni boiled and cut fine. 
The force-meat must be used sparingly, so as 
not to increase materially the thickness of 
the fillet ; fasten the opening of each with a 
wooden toothpick. Saute these fillets for 
fifteen minutes; glaze them as directed in 
last recipe ; arrange them in a circle, with a 
pyramid of tiny potato balls in the centre. 
Pour rich brown sauce round. 

*See No.V. 



90 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Mutton Cutlets a la cV Uxelles. — Cut some 
cutlets from the neck of mutton, leaving two 
bones to each, trim very carefully, remove 
the upper part of one bone, split the cutlets 
without separa^ting them at the bone, spread 
some thick tV Uxelles sauce" inside, fold the 
cutlets together, run a toothpick through 
them, and broil for four minutes on each side 
over a hot fire. Have a layer of chopped 
mushrooms stewed in butter in the dish, lay 
the cutlets on it, pour over some d'Uxelles 
sauce, and garnish with truffles, cut in very 
thin circles. 

Mutton Cutlets a la Milanais. — Take six 
cutlets from a neck of mutton ("French 
chops," many butchers term them), mix 
equal quantities of grated Parmesan cheese 
and cracker meal. Dip the cutlets into rich 
thick brown sauce,t then into the cracker 
and Parmesan ; shake off loose crumbs ; dip 
them now into beaten egg in which a little 
salt and very finely chopped parsley and 

* See No. 11. f See No. IV. 



ENTREES. 91 

cliives have been mixed, and then dip them 
a second time in the Parmesan and bread 
crumbs ; drop them into a kettle of very hot 
fat ; in four minutes they will be done. Do 
not fry more than four at a time, as too many 
cool the fat. Dish them in a circle with spa- 
ghetti dressed with Parmesan in the centre. 
It seems to me just here that before giv- 
ing further recipes for fried articles I had 
better make sure that all my readers un- 
derstand the process of fr3dng in deep fat. 
I have used the word sctute too, and although 
no doubt both these processes are familiar to 
most readers who would be likely to practise 
" Choice Cookery," for those who are not 
adepts many of the recipes would be impos- 
sible to execute. Prying, once understood, 
is so easy a process one Avonders that so few 
should excel in it. To those who are not 
sure of themselves I recommend practice. 
A couple of hours' practice and careful ob- 
servance of rules will enable a bright woman 
to fry successfully. 



92 CHOICE COOKERY. 

For this practice you may ])rcpare several 
different articles and fry one after the other 
— one or two ver}^ soft and creamy croquettes, 
one or two breaded articles, especially such 
as are dipped in thick sauce before being 
crumbed, etc. 

The principle on which articles thiit are 
very soft and creamy, underneath the sur- 
face of egg and crumbs, are fried is this : the 
creamy substances, whether rich sauce like 
d'Uxelles and A^illeroi, or the cream used to 
mix croquettes, must always be made of 
stock that will jelly when cold. The sauce 
is used warm, and the articles are put to chill 
on ice, so that they are in a jellied condi- 
tion, Xow the fat into which they are 
plunged must be so hot that it sets the coat- 
in o^ of eo-Q- and crumbs, which forms a thin 
shell, as it were, before the jelly has had 
time to melt ; the shell once formed, the in- 
terior cooks in the intense heat veiy quick- 
ly. If the fat were not hot enough, cro- 
quettes would go all to pieces, and articles 



ENTEEES. 93 

coated with sauce would lose the better 
part of it. 

To fry, you require a stewpan or iron ket- 
tle ; those called Scotch kettles are best, as 
they set into the range readily. A frying- 
pan is only useful for sauteing in little fat. 
Articles to be fried must be immersed in fat, 
and no frying-pan is deep enough to do this 
safely. Put two to three pounds of clarified 
dripping or lard into the kettle, and let it get 
very hot. This will be after it ceases to 
sputter — some time after, perhaps ; but you 
must noAY begin to watch for smoke to rise 
from the centre. Have near you some little 
squares of bread crumb ; drop one in from 
time to time ; only when it colors immedi- 
ately is the fat hot enough. At this point 
no time must be lost, and your frying be- 
gins. 

Of course you will have the articles you 
intend to fry right at hand. You will also 
need a large disli, in which you lay com- 
mon butcher's wrapping-paper (often called 



94 CHOICE COOKERY. 

" kitchen paper ") and a perforated skimmer 
— some like a frying -basket, and for very 
small things it is an assistance ; but for 
croquettes, cutlets, etc., it is not necessary : 
they can be laid on the skimmer and 
dropped in the fat. 

The easiest and safest way to fry is to 
use a cooking thermometer (pyrometers or 
frimometers they are sometimes called), 
and let the fat be 380° for croquettes, 
oysters, and articles that only require t\YO 
minutes' cooking ; 3G0° for cutlets and heav- 
ier articles. 

The time required for articles to cook in 
the frying-kettle seems astonishingly short. 
For instance, a breaded chop will be cooked 
to a medium degree in two aud a half min- 
utes, well done in three minutes ; but it must 
be remembered the heat is intense. Cro- 
quettes must never be left longer than two 
minutes, Avliile whitebait (which, however, 
require special instruction to fry without 
getting them into a cake) need less than a 



ENTREES. 95 

minute. Potatoes require longer than most 
things; but the fat need not be cooler at 
first, as would seem necessary, because they 
are so full of water, even when well dried, 
that they cool the fat rapidly. 

Sauteing (a word that would be expressive 
of the process in English would be a boon 
to writers on cooking). — The process gener- 
ally meant by " frying " is really sauteing ; 
yet so general has been the misconception 
among all but professed cooks, that one has 
to take the precaution in giving directions 
for frying to say, '* Fry in deej? fat." It 
ought to be understood that to fry is to im- 
merse in hot fat. If some term suitable for 
kitchen use could be found, half the difficul- 
ty would be over. In old English books a 
very fair translation was used; they told 
you to "toss the article in butter," but 
though it rendered saute "jump" fairly, it 
did not express the process. There is neither 
tossing nor jumping about it, unless an occa- 
sional shake to the pan be called so ; and as 



96 CHOICE COOKERY. 

'' flat frying," " dry frying," are awkward, 
the sooner we boldly take saute into com- 
mon use, and let it become a kitchen Avord 
as familiar as fricassee (which surely must 
have been very unfamiliar once), the better. 
To saute — although every Bridget or 
Gretchen fancies she can do it — requires 
nicety and care to do it well, and is far more 
difficult than "frying in deep fat." The 
pan requires to be hot, also the fat or butter 
used, which should cover the bottom of the 
pan ; a bright fire is required. Things that 
take long to cook require more fat than 
those that require but a short time. Effort 
must be made to adjust the proportion, as 
adding cold fat prevents browning. Yeal 
cutlets and many other things are far better 
sauted than fried. The articles sauted re- 
quire to be watched that they do not burn ; 
yet they must not be too often turned, or 
they will not brown — except, of course, such 
things as are chopped, which require fre- 
quent stirring up. 



p:nteees. 97 

In speaking of chilling articles coated 
with sauce to be fried, I omitted to give the 
caution that, in the case of meats, care must 
be taken not to leave them long enough to 
freeze the meat. 



XL 

ENTREES OF MUTTOX CUTLETS OR CHOPS. 

Mutton Cutlets a la Duchesse. — Take as 
many cutlets (or French chops) as required. 
Stew them in stock, with a small bouquet of 
herbs, very gently until they are perfectly 
tender. Take them up, skim the stock, and 
strain it ; return to a small saucepan, and re- 
duce the liquid to a glaze ; dip each cutlet in 
the glaze and lay it aside. Have ready what 
cooks now call a " panada," made of a gill of 
thick white sauce, two yolks of eggs stirred 
into it and allowed to approach the boiling- 
point, but not to boil (this, of course, must be 
done in a double boiler), or the eggs will cur- 
dle ; chop a dessertspoonful of parsley very 
fine ; parboil and chop also very fine three 
onions ; pound thoroughly in a mortar eight 
mushrooms ; stir these all into the thick 



ENTKEES. 99 

sauce, with a saltspoonfiil of salt and a quar- 
ter one of pepper. Roll each cutlet in this 
force-meat (if found too stiff to adhere prop- 
erly, moisten with a little cream or a little 
liquor from the mushrooms), lay them on a 
fire-proof dish, and cover with bread crumbs 
and bits of butter. Bake them until they 
are a golden brown. Serve with brown Sou- 
bise sauce. 

Lamh Cutlets en Concomhre. — Trim and 
cut six lamb cutlets three quarters of an inch 
thick, flatten them a little to make them of 
equal size and thickness ; flour them, and 
saute them in butter five minutes. The fire 
must be sharp, because they must be a nice 
brown on both sides. Arrange them round 
an entree dish, with a gill of brown sauce 
poured outside, and a pint of fillets of cu- 
cumber in the centre. 

To Prepare Fillets of Cucumher. — Cut firm 
fresh cucumbers lengthwise through the mid- 
dle, remove seeds and all soft parts, cut into 
inch lengths and into olive shapes all the 

97984 



100 CHOICE COOKERY. 

same size. Put them into a stewpan with 
an ounce of butter, a pinch of pepper, a salt- 
spoonful of sugar and one of salt, and let 
them stew until quite tender, without acquir- 
ing any color. To do this the stewpan must 
be closely covered and frequently shaken. 

Lainh Cutlets with a Puree erf Mushrooms. — 
Trim and cook and serve the cutlets as in 
the foregoing recipe, only in place of the cu- 
cumbers make a puree of mushrooms in the 
following way : stew half a pint of button 
mushrooms and part of their liquor in half 
a pint of white sauce until they are very ten- 
der (taking care the sauce does not burn), 
pound them in a mortar, then force them 
through a vegetable strainer ; then add 
enough of the white sauce in which they 
were stewed to make the puree the sub- 
stance of very thick cream. 

Cold Larrib Cutlets in Mint Jelly. — Roast a 
piece of what butchers call the rack of lamb, 
which is really the neck and ribs. Let it get 
cold ; cut from it six cutlets, which trim just 



ENTREES. 101 

as if they were uncooked ; that is to say, re- 
move meat and fat from the bone, and scrape 
it. Mask each of the cutlets in mint jelly- 
warmed enough to be half fluid. Arrange 
very carefully round an entree dish when they 
are perfectly set, so that the jelly will not 
come off. Have a Russian salad in the centre. 
How to Prepare the Salad. — To prepare 
this you require two or three small vegetable 
cutters of pretty shape; use them to trim 
carrots, Avhite turnips, and cucumbers into 
small, attractive forms; boil these in sep- 
arate waters till tender; also green peas, 
sprays of cauliflower, and very tiny young 
string-beans. Throw each vegetable as it is 
cooked into ice-cold water to keep the color. 
Have some red beet-root boiled hefore it is 
cut into shapes. Use equal quantities of each 
vegetable. Arrange them with peas in the 
centre, and the others in circles round, study- 
ing the effect of color ; then dress, but do not 
mask, them with green mayonnaise. 
* For recipe, see No. V. 



102 CHOICE COOKERY. 

At seasons when materials for Eussian 
salad cannot readily be obtained the chops 
may be served with a centre of cucumber 
salad, or one made of the small white leaves 
of lettuce. 

Outlets Chaiidfroid a la Busse. — For this 
cold dish mutton cutlets are used. They 
must be of the finest quality, and from 
mutton not newly killed. Cut as many 
cutlets as required, trim, and scrape the 
bone. Braise for an hour in a moderate 
oven till the meat is very tender, remove, 
and press between two dishes until they are 
cold. Then trim each cutlet into perfect 
shape. Boil a quart of strong stock (which 
already jellies) down to less than half a pint ; 
dip each chop into this glaze once or twice, 
till they look '^varnished." You now re- 
quire a pint of stiff aspic jelly ; turn it out 
of the bowl, cut one or two slices a quarter 
of an inch thick from it, to be cut into shapes 
(or croutons) w^ith a cutter to garnish the 
cutlets. Chop the rest of the aspic, lay it 



ENTREES. 103 

round the dish, and the cutlets against it, 
with the croutons of aspic to form the outer 
edge. The centre must be filled with a Eus- 
sian salad, in this case stirred up with very 
thick mayonnaise, instead of being formally 
arranged. The mayonnaise must be only 
suificient to dress the vegetables, none to run 
into the other materials, and beet-root must 
be added last, as it discolors the sauce if 
stirred up in it. 

ENTREES OF SWEETBREADS. 

Sweetbreads a la Supreme. — Take two 
plump sweetbreads, lay them an hour in 
strong salt and water, then boil them for ten 
minutes in fresh water ; put them between 
two plates to flatten till cold. Cut off all 
the gristle and loose skin from underneath ; 
put them to stew very gently in half a pint 
of good-flavored stock. Take them up, drain 
well, and stew them in half a pint of sauce 
supreme, with a dozen small mushrooms, for 
ten minutes. 



104 CHOICE COOKEEY. 

Sweetbreads with Oysters. — Prepare the 
sweetbreads as in the foregoing recipe, quar- 
ter them, and put them in a stewpan with a 
gill of white stock, the strained liquor from 
two dozen oysters, a saltspoonful of salt, a 
pinch of pepper, and a suspicion of nutmeg. 
Put two ounces of butter in a stewpan over 
the fire, stir into it one tablespoonful of fine 
flour ; let them bubble together, stirring the 
while, one minute. When the sweetbreads 
have been simmering twenty minutes, pour 
the gravy from them to the sauce ; stir quick- 
ly till smooth. If thicker than very thick 
cream, add a little more stock. In five 
minutes add the oysters. Keep at hoiling- 
j[>oint^ but not boiling, till the oysters are 
firm and plump. Do not leave them in the 
sauce a minute beyond this, or the}^ will be- 
gin to shrink. Take them and the sweet- 
breads up, and if the sauce is too thin to bear 
a wineglass of cream, boil it rapidly down 
till very thick; then skim, and just before 
pouring over the sweetbreads stir in a wine- 



ENTKEES. 105 

glass of thick cream. If it goes in earlier it 
may curdle. 

It has been explained before, but I repeat 
it here, that there must never be too much 
sauce, how^ever good, to any dish, and that 
the consistency is most important : it must 
be thick enough to mask a spoon, yet run 
from it freely. Nothing can be worse than 
a dab of white mush being served as sauce, 
unless it be a quantity of thin, milky soup 
floating on every plate. This is where the 
happy medium must be struck. It is per- 
fectly easy to give exact proportions to pro- 
duce certain degrees of thickness, and this 
has been done in the chapters on sauces ; but 
where these sauces are used as a medium in 
which to cook, for instance, sweetbreads, a 
certain amount of liquid must be added to 
prevent burning. Xow it is impossible to 
say how fast this added liquid will diminish 
if the simmering is as slow as it should be, 
it may lose hardly at all, in Avhich case the 
articles stewed must be taken out, and a few 
minutes' hard boiling given to evaporate the 



106 CHOICE COOKERY. 

liquid and bring the sauce back to the proper 
point. 

Sweetbreads in Cases. — Prepare two sweet- 
breads as directed in the foregoing recipes. 
Put them in a stewpan with a thin shce of 
fat boiled ham, half a carrot, half a turnip, 
and a small onion, all cut small, and laid as 
a bed under the sweetbreads ; put in a gill of 
broth, a bouquet of herbs, and half a salt- 
spoonful of salt, with a j)incli of pepper. Let 
them stew, closely covered, one hour, turning 
them after the first half-hour. When done, 
take them up and drain them. When cold, 
cover with thick d'Uxelles sauce ; s])rinkle 
thickly with very fine bread crumbs. Make 
two rough paper cases, butter each liberally, 
and very carefully lay each sweetbread in 
one, crumbed side uppermost. Put them in 
a quick oven till pale brown. Have ready 
proper sweetbread cases, slip them neatly 
into them, and serve. 

These are excellent cold, in which event 
they should not be shifted from the rough 
case until ready to serve. 



XII. 

ox THE MANNER OF PREPARING CROQUETTES, CUT- 
LETS, KROMESKIES, RISSOLES, AND CIGARETTES. 

Although these ever-popular dishes are all 
or may all be prepared from one mixture, 
there is a difference in the manner of using 
it which I will here explain. 

Croqicettes are made from a soft creamy 
mixture chilled on ice till firm enough to 
mould, then simply dipped into egg and 
crumbs and fried in very hot fat. 

Cutlets are the same (of course fancy 
cutlets are meant, not the French chops, so 
called), only they are shaped to imitate a 
real cutlet, with a little bone inserted ; or, in 
the case of lobster cutlets, a small claw is 
used to simulate the chop bone. Many only 
stick a sprig of parsley where the bone should 
l)e, to keep up the fiction. 

Kromeskles are roUs of the same mixture 



108 CHOICE COOKERY. 

enveloped in very thin slices (hardly thicker 
than paper) of fat larding pork ; a small 
toothpick holds the pork in place. The rolls 
are then egged, crumbed, and fried. 

Elssoles are the same thing, only rather 
easier to prepare, being rolled in very thin 
pastry instead of pork. 

Cigarettes^ the newest variation of the 
favorite entree, and most dainty of them all 
in appearance, are thin rolls of croquette 
mixture (or, better still, quenelle meat) not 
thicker than a small cigar. These are rolled 
in pastrv, thoroughly deadened, pinched very 
securely, and fried a very pale brown. 

As the manner of making the mixture is 
about the same for all kinds of meats, fish, 
or game, varying only in flavor — a little 
w^ine, a little onion, or sweet herbs taking 
the place of the mushrooms in some cases — 
I will give exact directions for making sweet- 
bread cutlets ; chicken, game, or fish may be 
substituted for the sweetbreads, naming them 
accordingl3^ The ham may always be omit- 



CUTLETS OF SWEETBREADS. 109 

ted where the flavor is objected to. For those 
who like it, it adds very much to sweetbreads, 
but would be out of place witli game, which 
should depend on its own individual flavor. 

Cutlets of Sweetbreads. — Soak a pair of 
sweetbreads in salt and water for an hour — 
longer if there is much blood about them ; 
then cook them half an hour in stock. Drain 
them and let them get cold. Trim off all 
superfluous fat and gristle ; chop them with 
one ounce of lean boiled ham to each pair of 
large sweetbreads, and half a can of mush- 
rooms, a small teaspoonfid of salt, the sixth 
of one of pepper. Put an ounce of flour in a 
small thick saucepan with an ounce of but- 
ter ; stir them together over the fire until 
they bubble ; then add a half-pint of liquid 
consisting of a gill of stiff jellied stock and a 
gill of thick cream; stir till they boil and 
form a smooth sauce ; mix the sweetbread 
mixture with tlie sauce. 

The mixture should be a soft, creamy mass, 
not in any way so stiff as sausage-meat, or so 



110 CHOICE COOKERY. 

as to remain in a heap without spreading ; 
when poured on a plate, it should be of a 
consistency that will slowly settle, yet there 
must not be any liquid whatever. On this 
question of consistency depends the quality 
of the croquettes, cutlets, etc., made from it. 
If too stiff, they will be dry and only a 
superior sort of hash ball. What you have 
to aim at is a croquette or cutlet that will 
ooze out of the thin shell of Qgg and crumb 
when pressed with a fork. Success in attain- 
ing this can always be secured by taking care 
to moisten the minced meat with a sauce 
made of very stiff jelly in the proportion of 
half a pint of liquid (the melted jelly and 
cream) and one ounce each of flour and but- 
ter. This will mix a pint of sweetbread and 
mushrooms, or rather less of dry meat, such 
as the breast of chicken, veal, etc. 

I dwell on this point because this class of 
entrees is always popular, and if the consist- 
ency is once well understood, success is cer- 
tain to follow. 



SWEETBREAD CROQUETTES. Ill 

When the mixture is poured into shallow 
dishes or plates, a piece of buttered paper 
should be laid over them, and then they 
should be placed on ice until quite firm. 
When ready, cut small pieces of the mixture, 
make them into shapes as nearly resembling 
a French chop as you can, using a very little 
cracker meal should they stick to your hands. 
Have before you a large dish of cracker meal 
and tlie yolks of two eggs beaten with two 
small tablespoonfuls of water, cover each 
cutlet thoroughly with egg, then with meal, 
gently patting them to make the meal ad- 
here ; insert anything you please to repre- 
sent the bone (turkey ribs may be boiled 
white and kept for this purpose). Cutlets 
require to be dropped into very hot fat, and 
taken up within two minutes. Consult direc- 
tions for frying in former chapter. 

Sweetbread croquettes are simply made 
into cork or pear shapes, never large, instead 
of cutlets. AVhen the white meat of chicken 
replaces half the sweetbread, they are called 
Cutlets, or Croquettes, a la lieine. 



112 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Make no attempt to mould croquettes or 
cutlets until the mixture is firm enough to 
cut ; then handle very quickly, make into 
proper forms, finish them either as cutlets or 
what you \yish, and let them remain in a cold 
place for an hour or two before cooking ; this 
last direction may not be ahvajs possible, and 
to an expert is not necessary, but when time 
can be giyen the ama,teur should always plan 
to do it. 

But though in experienced hands it is pos- 
sible (though not so easy) to make croquettes 
and fry them as soon as breaded, do not be 
led to belieye that you can dispense with 
putting the mixture on the ice the first time. 
I remember a young lady who was very 
proud of her croquettes telling me she never 
found it necessary to chill the mixture ; she 
could secure perfect shape without. I asked 
to see the process, and decided in my own 
mind that she must go widely from the di- 
rections, and have her material as stiff as 
hash ; but I found she solved the difficulty 



BRAISED SWEETBREADS. 113 

in a different way : she simply w^orked in 
quantities of cracker meal, using it like flour. 
Of course the croquettes w^ere spoiled, al- 
though it w^as true they kept their shape, 
and I do not think the young lady realized 
at all that she was changing and impover- 
ishing the preparation altogether. 

Braised Sweetbreads. — Take a pair of 
sweetbreads, W in salt and water for an 
hour, then blanch. Press slightly between 
two dishes ; when cold, remove all skin, fat, 
and gristle ; cut up very fine a small carrot, 
a turnip, and an onion ; pat them in a stew- 
pan with the sweetbreads, pour over them a 
pint of stock, lay a piece of buttered paper 
over them, and braise carefully for half an 
hour. Take them out of the stewpan, ])\xt 
them in a small meat-pan, boil the liquor 
rapidly a couple of minutes, then baste the 
sweetbreads w^ith it several times ; put them 
in a quick oven to brown ; serve on slices of 
fried bread, pour half a pint of Spanish sauce 
round, and garnish with mushrooms. 



ll-i CHOICE COOKEEY. 

Tartlettes of Cliicken. — Cut six ounces of 
the breast of a cooked chicken into very 
small pieces, chop up one truffle, twelve 
mushrooms, and two ounces of lean boiled 
ham; stir them into a gill of white sauce. 
Butter thickly nine dariole moulds, line them 
neatly with quenelle meat,^ of which you 
will require half a pound, fill the centre care- 
fully with the mixed chicken, cover the top 
carefully with quenelle meat, and steam for 
twenty minutes ; dish on a circle of spinach, 
pour bechamel sauce over and round, fill the 
centre of the dish with peas or mixed vege- 
tables. 

Chicheii d la Ilollaiidaise. — Take out the 
breast-bone of a large young fowl, and fill the 
space with the following force-meat : half a 
pint of fine bread-crumbs, an ounce and a 
half of butter, a small boiled onion chopped, 
and a dozen oysters cut into small pieces ; a 
saltspoonf ul of salt, a pinch of pepper ; bind 

* See directions in No. IV. 



CHICKEN A LA HOLLANDAISE. 115 

together with an egg, sew up the fowl, and 
truss for roasting. Make a nice batter, as 
for fine fritters, and when the fowl has been 
in the oven half an hour, pour part of the 
batter over it ; w^hen dry and beginning to 
brown, pour more^ until it is thickly coated 
and a nice brown ; baste often ; cut up the 
chicken, and serve with AUemande sauce and 
lemon. 



XIII. 

PATTIES. 

The directions for making one kind will 
serve for patties generally. In cities the 
cases are very easily bought, but where they 
have to be made at home, only one who is 
already an expert in making puff -paste should 
attempt them. 

Patties when served as an entree should 
be quite small, or half of them will certainly 
be left on the plates. 

Koll puff -paste a quarter of an inch thick 
for each patty, cut three circles from it, 
moisten the surface of two very slightly 
with water, place one on the other, then with 
a sharp penknife cut a circle nearly through 
the third round, leaving a margin of one 
third of an inch ; lay this round carefully on 
the other two ; brush the top with white of 



PATTIES. 117 

egg (be sure not to toucli the sides), and 
bake in a very quick oven. Patties must 
be watched, and turned if they show signs 
of rising unevenly. When they are a fine 
yellow-brown take them out, and leave five 
minutes for them to cool slightly, then with 
a penknife or a boning -knife carefully re- 
move the top formed by the smaller circle 
you marked, and which (if the paste was 
very light and the oven in good condition) 
will probably have risen out of the centre. 
Be careful in handling these covers, for 
wiiile warm they are very brittle. With a 
coffee-spoon remove the half-cooked dough 
from the centre of the patty, taking care, 
however, to leave sufficient thickness of in- 
ner crust to prevent the sauce from oozing 
through. 

The filling for patties can be made before 
it is needed ; but when that is done, it must 
be made quite hot before it is put into the 
cases, as, if it were put in cold, the pastry 
would burn before the inside became warm. 



118 CHOICE COOKERr. 

Dresden Fatty Cases. — These make a very 
pretty kind of patty when puff-paste is not 
to be had, and even when it is are a desira- 
ble variety. They are made from fine hght 
baker's bread. Cut shoes an inch and a half 
thick, then with a biscuit cutter about two 
inches in diameter cut circles from these 
slices, and with another cutter, a size smaller, 
press half-way through each. You will noAV 
have pieces of bread the size and shape of 
patties. Beat four eggs ; mix with a pint 
of milk and a saltspoonful of salt ; pour this 
into a shallow pan, and stand the bread pat- 
ties in it. The amount of milk and eggs 
must of course depend on the number of 
patties ; the proportion named is enough for 
six small ones. The patties must remain 
steeping until they are thoroughly soaked ; 
they must be carefully turned upside down 
when the lower part is sufficiently steeped. 
The time required will depend on the quality 
of the bread, but one hour will generally 
suffice. The bread must be thoroughly pen- 



PATTIES. 119 

etrated b j the custard, be almost as moist as 
mush, yet be in no danger (with careful hand- 
ling) of breaking. When sufficiently steeped, 
take each one on a cake turner and lay it on 
a drainer. (They may be prepared some 
hours before they are needed for cooking.) 
When quite drained, baste each one carefully 
with beaten egg till ever}^ part is coated, 
then smother it in cracker meal. Gently pat 
it to make it adhere, then slip the patty on 
to a dish till you are ready to fry. Do not 
attempt to move the patties with the hand 
or a spoon, but with a flat skimmer or cake 
turner. 

When prepared as directed, make three 
pounds of lard ver// hot in a deep frying-ket- 
tle,^ place three of the patties on a tine wire 
frying-basket, and fry brown. The fat should 
be excessively hot, as the patties, being full 
of cold custard, will not burn, and will rapid- 
ly cool it. They should be a delicate brown 

* See full directions for frying in No. X. 



120 CHOICE COOKERY. 

in six or seven minutes. Let the fat come 
back to the original intense heat before put- 
ting in the other patties. When they are 
fried, remove the centre you marked with 
the smaller cutter with a sharp thin knife 
and small teaspoon, leaving the sides about 
half an inch thick. They are now ready to 
fill. If the patties are just right, the inside 
you remove should be of a custard-like text- 
ure, not like sopped bread : indeed, in eating 
them, the bread should not be easily detected. 
These patties are very delicious filled with 
any of the usual fillings, or, for dessert, with 
stiff preserve. They have no covers, conse- 
quently the filling should be piled high with- 
out allowing the sauce to run over, and gar- 
nished with parsley or Avater-cress. 

Sweetbread Patties. — Soak two very white 
sweetbreads in salt and water one hour ; par- 
boil for twenty minutes ; then let them cool ; 
remove the skin, fat, and gristle ; cut them 
into half -inch dice, and lay them aside while 
you prepare the following sauce : Put a gill 



PATTIES. 121 

of strong- white stock into a small saucepan 
with a gill of mushroom liquor (and a dozen 
small mushrooms cut in four if approved) to 
boil. In another saucepan cook an ounce of 
flour and one of butter together, stirring till 
they bubble ; pour the two gills of stock 
quickly to it, and stir till smooth. Season 
with half a teaspoonful of salt and very lit- 
tle pepper; lay in the sweetbreads, and let 
them stew twenty minutes. Strain them off 
from the sauce, which boil down (stirring 
constantly to prevent burning) till very thick; 
then add a gill of thick fresh cream. The 
sauce should now be thick enough to mask 
the spoon very heavily ; pour it over the 
sweetbreads, and stir together. This is now 
ready for filling the patties. If mushrooms 
are not liked they may be omitted, the liq- 
uor replaced by a gill of stock and a tea- 
spoonful of white wine. 

Oyster Patties. — Take a dozen and a half 
Blue Points, scald them in their own liquor, 
but do not leave them a moment after they 



133 CHOICE COOKERY. 

reach the boiling-point; strain the liquor 
from them ; cut each oyster in four. Put a 
tablespoonful of flour and one of butter into 
a small saucepan over the fire, stir them to- 
gether until they bubble ; then pour to them 
half a pint of the strained liquor of the oys- 
ters, or part liquor and part stock. Stir con- 
tinually, and let the sauce boil yevy thick ; 
then lay in the oysters, and simmer half a 
minute. The amount of seasoning required 
will depend on the saltness of the oysters, 
but a saltspoonful of salt will probably not 
be too much, a little pepper, and a teaspoon- 
ful of essence of anchovies — just enough to 
make the sauce a delicate salmon-color. For 
the last thing, stir in one small teaspoonful 
of lemon juice. The consistency of the sauce 
for all patties should be that of very thick 
double cream. When it is not thick enough, 
it can always be reduced by boiling down, 
taking care not to boil the meat or oysters, 
etc., in it. 

Chicken Patties. — Take the breast of a 



PATTIES. 123 

boiled cliicken, cut it into dice ; use half a 
pint of the liquor in which it was boiled to 
make the sauce. Put this broth in a small 
saucepan with a teaspoonful of lean boiled 
ham chopped a little (take care there is not 
a particle of the outside of the ham, or it may 
impart a smoky flavor) ; let the ham simmer 
in the broth while you melt together a table- 
spoonful of flour and one of butter ; when 
they bubble, and the broth has been boiled 
down to about one half, strain the latter into 
a half -pint measure, fill up with cream, and 
stir this quickly to the flour and butter. 
"When the sauce is thick and smooth, put in 
the chicken; keep the mixture at boiling- 
point ^XQ minutes, then set the saucepan in 
another of boiling water, and stir in the 
beaten yolks of two eggs ; only just let them 
thicken ; then remove from the fire, and use 
for filling the patty cases. A teaspoonful of 
sherry is often added to the sauce. If this 
filling is not used while hot, it must be re- 
heated in a double boiler and Avatched, or 



124 CHOICE COOKERY. 

the eggs will curdle ; or the hlling may be 
prepared and the eggs added after it is re- 
heated. 

Boucliees of any kind are simply patties 
made very small indeed — for this reason the 
filling is always chopped instead of being cut 
into dice. 

The essence of anchovy mentioned is a 
most useful sauce for fish, and can be bought 
at any large grocery. 



XIY. 

ENTREES. 

In an earlier chapter I gave directions for 
quenelles as an adjunct to soups and for 
garnishing. Used in this Avay, they are only 
a revival of an old French fashion, coarsely 
imitated in the benighted days of Anglo- 
Saxon cookery by the English "force-meat 
balls." Lately, however, not only are que- 
nelles a great feature in high-class cookery 
as additions to made dishes, but they are a 
most fashionable and delicious entree, and 
replace with great advantage the too-fre- 
quent croquette. 

To prepare quenelle meat for entrees. 

Mode No. 1. — To make quenelle meat, a 
mortar is indispensable, as it must be pounded 
to a pulp that will go through a sieve, and I 
have known a persevering w^oman grate the 



126 CHOICE COOKERY. 

breast of chicken on a large grater, but this 
is very slow work. Take the white meat 
from a large, young, uncooked chicken, and re- 
move all skin, fat, and sinew. Melt together 
over the fire a scant tablespoonful of butter 
and one of flour ; when they are thick and 
smooth^ stir in a gill of boiling water quick- 
ly. This should now be a thick paste ; put 
it away to cool. Take half as much butter 
as you have of chicken, and half the quanti- 
ty of paste (technically called panada) that 
you have of butter. Put the paste into a 
mortar; pound it well; add the butter; 
pound again till smooth; add the chicken, 
cut up very small, and pound until the whole 
forms a smooth pulp. Add one whole egg 
and the yolks of three, the third of a salt- 
spoonful of white pepper (salt must depend 
on whether the butter seasons sufficiently). 
Work all well together, stir in half a gill of 
thick cream, and pass the whole through a 
wire sieve. Put the whole on ice to get 
firm. The quenelles should be about the 



ENTEEES. 127 

size of a small egg flattened ; shape with 
two tablespoons dipped in flour. Have 
ready a frying-pan with boiling water in 
which is a salt spoonful of salt, lay each 
quenelle carefully in, and poach for ten min- 
utes. The water must boil very gently. 
Drain on a sieve ; serve with mushroom or 
tomato sauce. Have a little dried parsley 
and grated tongue or ham, and scatter alter- 
nately on each quenelle. 

Mode j\^o. 2. — One pound of lean veal cut- 
let ; pound it thoroughly in a mortar ; then 
rub it through a sieve, or it may be forced 
{after it is pounded) through a vegetable 
strainer. Steep a pound of bread crumb in 
tepid water ; wring it in a cloth to get rid 
of the moisture ; put it in a stewpan with a 
tablespoonful of butter and a pinch of salt. 
Stir it over the fire until it ceases to stick to 
the pan and forms a smooth paste. Place it 
between two plates to cool. This is called 
bread panada. Put into a mortar twelve 
ounces of the prepared veal, six ounces of 



128 CHOICE COOKERY. 

fresh butter, and eight ounces of the panada. 
Pound all well together; mix in gradually 
one whole egg, two tablespoonfuls of thick 
cream, and the yolks of four more eggs, a 
scant teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter-salt- 
spoonful of pepper. When this is all pound- 
ed into a smooth, compact mass, put it into a 
bowl and place it on ice until required for 
use. Mould and poach as described in last 
recipe. 

Great care is required in cooking quenelles, 
as if they are overdone they become tough ; 
ten minutes is enough for those the size of a 
small egg. Before moulding the whole, 
poach a small one, break it open, and ascer- 
tain if it is smooth, light, yet lirm. They 
should melt in the mouth. If they are at 
all tough, add a little more cream to the 
mixture, unless the toughness comes from 
over-boiling, which you must guard against. 
Yery elaborate quenelles are made with a 
core of dark meat, made by chopping up 
ham, tongue, or truffles very fine, and insert- 



ENTREES. 129 

ing it in the centre Avliile forming the que- 
nelles. Always serve quenelles with tomato, 
mushroom, or rich Spanish sauce. Dish in 
a circle, and fill the centre with spinach, 
green peas, or a macedoine of mixed veg- 
etables. 

The mode of preparing all quenelles is by 
one of the two methods just given, but they 
may be made of any kind of game, or the 
backs of hares or rabbits. Quenelles of salm- 
on, lobster, or other fish must of course be 
served with appropriate fish sauce. 

Thiibale of Chicl^eii d la Ohcwipefiois. — 
Chop a small slice of lean boiled ham, weigh- 
ing about two ounces, put into a saucepan 
with four chopped mushrooms, four truffles, 
and an ounce of butter ; stir in a moderate 
dessertspoonful of corn -starch and half a 
pint of stock and a gill of sherry; let this 
slowly simmer until reduced to one half. 
Skim off the fat, then stir in the finely 
chopped breast of a large chicken or of 
two small ones, six small pickled gherkins, 
i) 



130 CHOICE COOKERY. 

a sprig of parsley, and six anchovies which 
have been soaked in milk. Make all hot 
over a slow fire, but do not let them boil. 
Line a mould with light puff -paste, pour 
the mixture into it, and bake one hour; turn 
out and serve very hot. Garnish with fried 
parsley. 

Scallops of Chicken a la Perigord. — This 
dish may conveniently be made when the 
white meat of chicken is required for other 
purposes. 

Bone the legs of two large chickens ; take 
half a pound of veal, a quarter of a pound of 
fat salt pork ; jDound both in a mortar, then 
pass through a sieve ; add to this two table- 
spoonfuls of minced tongue, six truffles, and 
half a dozen button mushrooms, the yolks of 
two eggs, a saltspoonful of salt, and a ^'ery 
little cayenne. Mix well. Stuff the legs of 
the fowls with this. Sewing them up neat- 
ly, wrap each up in buttered paper; put 
them in a stewpan with two ounces of but- 
ter and a carrot, turnip, and small onion cut 



ENTREES. 131 

up ; acid three quarters of a pint of brown 
stock. Put the stewpan in the oven, baste 
well, and cook gently one hour. When 
cooked, have ready a mound of spinach. 
Take a very sharp knife, cut the legs in 
slices so as to make circles like slices of sau- 
sage; strain off the gravy. Cook together 
a dessertspoonful of butter and flour; when 
they bubble, pour the strained gravy to it, 
with a gill of sherry and a little salt and 
pepper ; stir till smooth ; boil till as thick as 
cream. Dress the scallops of chicken in a 
circle round the spinach, pour the sauce 
round all, and insert bits of truffle and of 
tongue between the scallops. 

Chicken Souffle. — Pound three ounces of 
the white meat of cooked chicken as flne as 
possible ; mix with it half a pint of cream 
and three w^ell beaten eggs, a few button 
mushrooms finely chopped, a saltspoonful 
of salt, a sixth of one of pepper, a dust of 
cayenne, and a speck of powdered mace. Pour 
the mixture in a well - buttered mould, tie 



132 CHOICE COOKERY. 

a cloth over it, and steam it lialf an hour. 
It must stand quite upright in the steam- 
er. Turn out on a hot dish, and pour any 
rich brown sauce preferred around it. This 
souffle may be made of sweetbreads, or half 
and half. If individual souffles are preferred, 
butter as many dariole moulds as the mixt- 
ure will fill; lay at the bottom of each 
something by w^ay of garnish — a little star 
or disk of tongue or ham for some, of truf- 
fle for others, of green gherkin for others — 
so that when turned out the top of the souf- 
fles will show spots of color. Half fill the 
moulds, and steam twenty minutes. 

Souffles of all kinds depend for excellence 
on being served the moment they are ready, 
and on the steam being kept up all the time 
they are cooking. When baked the oven 
must be very steady. 

Fritot of Chicken. — Take a cold chicken, 
cut it into small neat joints, season rather 
highly with salt and pepper, strew over 
them a small grated onion (or one very 



ENTKEES. 133 

finely chopped), and a dessertspoonful of 
chopped parsley. Cover them Avith oil, and 
then squeeze over them the juice of a lemon. 
Turn the pieces now and then, and let them 
remain until they have absorbed the flavor. 
Meanwhile make a batter of four table- 
spoonfuls of flour and about eight of milk, 
or as much as will make a thick smooth bat- 
ter ; stir into it a wineglass of brandy and 
an es-g", the whole beaten to a hio:h froth. 
Leave this batter in a warm place an hour 
before using, dip the pieces of chicken into 
it, and fry in very hot, deep fat. Serve piled 
high on a dish garnished with fried parsley. 



XY. 

ENTREES.— Contmued. 

Cigarettes a la Heine. — These are the new- 
est development of the rissole and croquette. 
They require strict attention to details to se- 
cure perfect form. Roll puff -paste a quarter 
of an inch thick ; prick it all over — this is to 
deaden it ; roll it now till it is no thicker than 
cartridge-paper. Cut it with a sharp knife 
dipped in flour into strips about two inches 
and a half wide and about the length of a 
cigar ; lay on each strip a roll of chicken que- 
nelle meat that is very firm, and the roll not 
thicker than a lady's slender forefinger ; be 
careful that the meat reaches nearly the whole 
length of the paste, yet leaves a margin for 
closing, as the least oozing will spoil the ap- 
pearance. Moisten the edges of the paste all 
round with white of ^gg ; fold the paste over 
half an inch ; be very careful to see that it 



ENTREES. 135 

adheres thoroughly; then pinch the ends. 
Eoll them gently with a cool hand on the 
floured board to round them without pres- 
sure, taper off the ends cigar fashion. If 
they are softening, lay them on a floured 
plate on ice to get firm ; then roll them in 
egg and very finely sifted cracker meal. You 
may roll or improve the shape, if there is any 
irregularity, while crumbing them. Remem- 
ber what you aim to imitate is a cigar. The 
great danger for the first time is getting them 
too large ; they must therefore be very slen- 
der. Fry in deep fat just as rissoles ; serve 
on a napkin, log-house fashion. These dain- 
ties, as Avill have been seen, have a large 
amount of butter, and soften in a warm 
room ; they must therefore be made in a 
cold room, and if set on ice some hours be- 
fore cooking will be much easier to fry with- 
out bending or twisting. 

Cigarettes d la Chasseur are, as the name 
indicates, made of game, in exactly the same 
way as the last recipe. 



136 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Lobster Quenelles. — Prepare ^vitli bread pa- 
nada as directed for quenelle meat. Poach 
and drain them. Then dish in a circle with 
thick Hollandaise sauce in the centre and 
round them. 

Chicken^ Turtle Fashion. — This requires a 
pullet or young hen about six months old. 
Bone the bird ; stuff with a force-meat made 
of four parts minced veal, two parts chopped 
hard eggs, a half part lean boiled ham, two 
parts mushrooms, and two parts j9«^^ defoie 
gras. First make the veal and ham hot in 
a little butter, then add the mushrooms and 
foie (jras ; moisten with stock or mushroom 
liquor, and gently simmer five minutes. Stir 
in two beaten yolks of eggs and a teaspoon- 
ful of lemon juice. Season with a saltspoon- 
ful of salt, a quarter one of white pepper, 
and a tiny pinch of nutmeg, grated. Stuff 
the fowl with this mixture ; sew it up with 
trussing-needle and string; turn the skin of 
the neck half over the head, and cut off part 
of the comb, which gives the appearance of 



ENTKEES. 137 

the turtle's head. Scald and skin four chick- 
ens' feet ; cut off the claws, and insert t^Yo 
where the ^Wngs ought to be and two in the 
thighs, so as to look like turtles' feet. Put 
in a stewpan a tablespoonful of chopped 
boiled ham, an onion, and a small carrot cut 
up, with a tablespoonful of butter; let them 
brovrn very slightly, add half a pint of stock, 
skim it, lay the fowl in this stock, and stew 
gently for an hour and a half to two hours, 
or even longer, according to size. When quite 
tender take up the fowl, cut and remove the 
string with which it is sewn, lay it on its 
back on a dish, garnish the breast with sliced 
truffles cut in fancy shapes, place a crawfish 
tail to represent the turtle's tail. When eat- 
en hot serve veloute sauce. This is an excel- 
lent dish cold garnished with aspic. 

Baked Bavioli. — Four ounces of veal, six 
ounces of butter, three ounces of lean sau- 
sage-meat, a teaspoon ful of mixed sweet 
herbs, a little salt and pepper. Pound all in 
a mortar; when smooth, pound separately 



138 CHOICE COOKERY. 

a gill of spinach that has been boiled till just 
tender without losing color, and a quarter of a 
pound of cream cheese or rich cottage cheese, 
which must l^e squeezed in a cloth to remove 
all the milk. AYhen smooth, pound all togeth- 
er, and stir in the yolks of two eggs. Make 
some pastry with half a pound of butter, 
three quarters of a pound of flour, and the 
yolks of two eggs; mix stiff, and roll till 
about as thick as a fifty-cent piece. Cut the 
paste in two parts. Take a medium-sized 
biscuit-cutter, mark half as many circles on 
one half the paste as you wish ravioli. Lay 
in the centre of each circle a mound of the 
force-meat — perhaps a large teaspoonful, 
only be careful to leave a quarter-inch mar- 
gin all round. Moisten this margin Avith a 
camel's-hair brush dipped in white of egg; 
lay the second half of the pastry over these 
mounds ; press the cutter on each to trim 
them, and 3^ou have a number of little round 
patties ; press the edges together very well by 
curving the little finger round them. Have 



ENTEEES. 139 

some rich stock boiling in a stewpan ; poach 
the ravioli five minutes. Take them up, drain 
them well, arrange them in a fire-proof gratin 
dish, sprinkle them over with grated Parme- 
san cheese, pour in a very little stock, and 
bake brown in the oven. 

Veal Cutlets d la Primi^ose. — Take a pound 
of veal cutlet ; cut it up into small cutlets the 
size of a dollar, and perfectly round. Put 
two ounces of butter (which has been first 
melted to let the curd separate) into a sauce- 
pan, with three onions, two ounces of bacon 
cut into small dice, a bouquet of herbs (in- 
cluding bay-leaf). Fry, stirring frequently, 
for a quarter of an hour, then add a table- 
spoonful of corn-starch, a dessertspoonful of 
Tarragon vinegar, and a pint of strong stock. 
Let all simmer very gently for about one 
hour. Take up the cutlets, strain the gravy 
and pour it over them, then sprinkle with a 
tablespoonf ul of grated tongue, and the same 
quantity of parsley dried and crumbled small. 
Chicken may also be cooked in this way. 



140 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Quails a la Lucullus. — This, as its name 
implies, is a most expensive and luxurious 
wa}^ of serving these dainty birds, yet by 
management the livers of chickens inay be 
saved a day or two by scalding them, and 
the opportunity taken Avhen several are re- 
quired for general use during a week. Bone 
very carefully six or eight quails. Cut up 
three ounces of unsmoked bacon, put it in a 
saute pan, let it cook five minutes, then add 
the livers, a shallot sliced, a small bouquet, 
twelve white peppercorns, six cloves, a salt- 
spoonful of salt. Let all cook carefully ten 
minutes : nothing must burn or get very 
brown. When cooked, pound well in a mor- 
tar, pass through a sieve, then add three truf- 
fles chopped ; stuff each quail into shape, but- 
ter some paper cases known as " quail cases," 
put a quail into each case, a few drops of olive 
oil on each breast. Then put them in a quick 
oven for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour. 
For the gravy, put the bones of the quails in 
a stewpan, add a tablespoonful of glaze and 



ENTREES. 141 

a gill of brown sauce, with one tablespoon- 
ful of water. Simmer till the gravy is well 
flavored from the bones, then strain, and add 
two tablespoonfuls of chopped truffles and 
half a gill of sheny. Put one tablespoonful 
of this sauce over each quail before sending 
it to the table, after very carefully draining 
all grease from the quails. These are served 
in the papers, but rough paper cases may be 
made to bake them in, and the regular crimped 
ones set in the oven to get hot just before 
dishing up. Slip the quails into them after 
draining. 

Quails a la Juhilee. — Bone as many birds 
as required. Lard them with pork and thin 
strips of truffles. Stuff them in shape with 
equal parts of sweetbreads and oysters, sew 
them up ; roll them in buttered paper, and 
cook in the oven in enough Chablis to cover 
them. Pound some boiled potatoes and wa- 
ter-cresses together until tlioroughly blend- 
ed ; put a tablespoonful of butter in a sauce- 
pan with one of milk ; put in the potato, stir 



142 CHOICE COOKERY. 

round till quite hot ; use this to make a bor- 
der on which to serve the quails. When they 
have cooked fifteen to twenty minutes, take 
them up, glaze them (melt glaze in a cup 
standing in hot water, and brush them over). 
Lay them on the potato border, and pour 
into the centre some Spanish sauce with 
mushrooms in which has been boiled a slice 
of lemon. 



XYI. 

'ENTREES.— Conii7iued. 

Pigeon Cutlets. — Take half a dozen young 
pigeons, split them down the back, and bone 
them, all but the leg, cutting off the wings 
at the second joint. Cut each bird in two 
down the breast ; trim off all ragged edges, 
so that each half -bird has as much as possi- 
ble the appearance of a cutlet, the leg serv- 
ing for the bone. Saute these cutlets, hav- 
ing seasoned them with pepper and salt, for 
three minutes in hot butter, then put them 
in the oven for five minutes. AYhen done, 
press between two plates till cold. Then 
mask each cutlet with a thick puree of to- 
matoes and mushrooms in which aspic jelly 
has been mixed, equal ])arts of each. Let 
them be put on ice to stiffen the masking. 
Koll in fine cracker meal, then dip into well- 



144 CHOICE COOKERY. 

beaten egg, again into the meal, and then 
place them in a saute pan Avith veiy hot clar- 
ified butter, and cook them a fine golden 
brown. Dish up on a border of mashed po- 
tatoes browned with grated Parmesan ; serve 
mushrooms in the centre and Spanish sauce 
all round. 

Pigeons a la Tartare. — The pigeons should 
be trussed for broiling; flatten well with a 
rolling-pin without breaking the skin, season 
them with pepper and salt, dip into clarified 
butter and cover with very fine crumbs or 
cracker meal. Eroil them carefully, turning 
often. Make a sauce of a scant tablespoon- 
ful of finely chopped parsley, a shallot, two 
spoonfuls of pickled gherkins, and a boned 
anchovy. Mince all finely and separately. 
Squeeze over them the juice of a lemon ; add 
half a tablespoonful of water and six of oil, 
and a little pepper. Mix all very well, and 
just before serving rub in a teaspoonful of 
dry mustard. Put the sauce into the dish, 
lay the pigeons over, and serve. 



ENTKEES. 145 

Compote of Pigeons. — For any dish of 
pigeons except roast or broiled, wild birds 
may be used in ])lace of tame. Their flavor 
is far finer, and if not perfectly young, which 
is the main objection to the use of wild birds, 
the preparation remedies the defect. Cut 
four ounces of lean unsmoked bacon into 
pieces, and fry five minutes. Split the pig- 
eons in half, skewer each half as neatly as 
possible with tiny skewers, so that they will 
not sprawl when dished ; flour and season 
them lightly, and fry a nice brown on both 
sides ; add one small carrot, one small turnip, 
two sticks of celery, one shallot, six mush- 
rooms — all cut small; add a houquet garni 
and three gills of rich stock; let them all 
simmer very slowly in a stewpan for one 
hour, or longer if the birds are not young. 
Simmer together a tablespoonful of flour 
and one of butter ; pepper and salt (quan- 
tities depend on whether the stock be sea- 
soned) ; stir constantly, and when they begin 
to change color ])our a gill of bi'own stock 
10 



146 CHOICE COOKERY. 

to it, stirring well; remove from the fire. 
Take up the pigeons, strain the gravy, then 
stir in the brown thickening you have made ; 
boil up, skim off all fat, then return the 
birds ; let them get thoroughly hot, but not 
boil. Serve on a border of mashed potatoes, 
pour the gravy round and over them, and 
fill the centre with peas or spinach. 

Souffle of Partridges. — Clean and cook two 
partridges ; remove the breasts and best of 
the other flesh without skin or sinew. Take 
two ounces of rice cooked till very tender, 
pound them together in a mortar with one 
ounce of butter and a gill and a half of glaze 
melted, a teaspoonful of salt, and a sixth of 
pepper. Pound until the whole can be forced 
through a strainer, then add the beaten yolks 
of four eggs, and last of all the whites of 
two beaten till they will not slip from the 
dish ; stir them very lightly into the mixture. 
Pour it into a silver souffle case, or into a 
number of the small china cases. Bake till 
it rises, and then serve immediately with a 



ENTKEES. 147 

tureen of rich bro^yn sauce. This souffle can 
be made of any kind of cold bird or fish. 
The four eggs are given for medimii-sized 
partridges. 

Salmis of Snipe. — Clean and roast lightly 
six snipe, saving the trail. "When done let 
them get cold, then cut them up and remove 
the skin, and lay them in a buttered stew- 
pan ; pound the trimmings and bones in a 
mortar, and put them into a stewpan with 
two shallots, a clove, a bouquet of herbs, and 
half a pint of claret ; let this simmer until 
reduced to one half. Then add three quar- 
ters of a pint of Spanish sauce. Let these 
very gently simmer for half an hour, skim^ 
ming frequently ; strain through a fine sieve, 
and return to the stewpan. If it is not thick 
enough to coat the spoon, reduce a little 
more. Pour this sauce over the snipe in the 
saute pan, and let it get hot without boiling ; 
pile the pieces in a pyramid ; meanwhile 
chop the trail, mix with half the quantity of 
pate defoie gras and a little salt and pepper ; 



148 CHOICE COOKERY. 

spread this on croutons, bake, and use them 
to garnish the snipe. 

Fillets of Teal iclth Anchovies. — Remove 
the breasts from a pair of teal after they 
have been three parts roasted. Take care 
to preserve each half breast in good shape. 
Lay these fillets seasoned in a china fire- 
proof dish which has been well buttered and 
strewed with grated Parmesan; split two 
anchovies, remove the bone. Wash and dry 
the four halves, lay one on each fillet of teal, 
moisten with a gill of fish stock, sprinlde 
with bread crumbs and grated Parmesan 
cheese, lay small pieces of butter over, and 
bake in the oven fifteen mmutes. The last 
thing before serving squeeze the juice of a 
lemon over all. 

Rabbits are so little cared for in this coun- 
try that it may seem useless to give recipes 
for using them. There are probably two rea- 
sons for the low estimate in which rabbit is 
held here. One, that as they are offered in 
market they are skinny, miserable animals. 



ENTREES. 149 

Yet there are parts of the country where 
they attain a good size, and a fine plump 
rabbit may compare favorably with fowl for 
many purposes. Indeed, English epicures 
use it in preference for mulligatawny. The 
second reason, and probably the one that is 
the real reason, for the difference in taste is 
because, being so lightly esteemed, no care is 
ever given to the preparation of them. 

On the chance that some reader may feel 
inclined to test the possibilities of the native 
rabbit, and its claims to a place in choice 
cookery, I give two or three recipes, each 
admirable in its way. Eabbits should be 
used quite fresh, and cleaned and wiped dry 
as soon after they are killed as possible. 

Grenadines of Itcibhtt a la Soubise. — Take 
the whole backs of two rabbits from the 
shoulders to the thighs, both of which you 
reject ; cut away the ribs and the thin part 
that forms the stomach, leaving only the 
backbone with solid flesh each side ; divide 
this into sections, about two joints to each. 



150 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Lard them, and then braise for one hour. 
Stand them in a circle, and pour over and 
round them a pint of brown Soubise sauce. 

FUlets of Rahhit with Cucumher. — Half 
roast a rabbit, then remove the solid flesh 
from each side the backbone in long fillet r:. 
Cut two cucumbers and one Bermuda onion 
in thin slices, salt them, and let them drain. 
Lard the fillets of rabbit, season them, and 
lay them in a stewpan, with a pint of white 
sauce slightly thinned with white stock, the 
cucumber, and the onion. Let them simmer 
for half an hour. Lay the fillets in a circle, 
and put the cucumber and onion in the centre, 
the sauce, which should be thick enough to 
mask them, over the fillets. Fried sippets 
garnish this dish. 

A Civet. — For this dish the dark-fleshed 
rabbit, or hare, as it is often called, is best. 
Cut it into meat joints ; cut half a pound of 
unsmoked bacon into slices, and fry in a 
saucepan ; then lay in the hare, and saute 
for fifteen minutes. Pour off the fat. Add 



ENTEEES. 151 

half a pint of port- wine, a bouquet garni, and 
a dozen mushrooms, and a Httle pepper and 
salt ; let this simmer gently one hour ; then 
add a pint of brown sauce and twenty but- 
ton onions which have been blanched. Sim- 
mer for another half-hour. Eemove the bou- 
quet, add a gill of stewed and strained toma- 
to, half a gill of glaze, and a tablespoonf q1 of 
Chutney. Serve in a pyramid, pour the 
gravy, after it is well skimmed, over the 
whole, and garnish with fried croutons. 

Timbales cVEpinard. — Make some quenelle 
meat of chicken or veal according to direc- 
tions already given, and mix with puree of 
spinach, prepared as follows, until it is a nice 
green ; pick and wash some spinach, put it 
into salted boiling water, and boil fast for 
fifteen minutes. Drain and press it, then 
beat it through a wire sieve ; return to the 
saucepan with two ounces of butter ; pepper 
and salt ; stir till well mixed. Stir a gill of 
cream to the quenelle meat, then use enough 
of the spinach to give it a fine light-green 



153 CHOICE COOKERY. 

color. Wlien well mixed, butter some dariole 
moulds ; nearl}^ fill them. Then dip your fin- 
ger in cold water and press a hole in the cen- 
tre of each to the bottom ; fill it with a puree 
of ham, and then put a coating of quenelle 
meat over, and steam twenty minutes. 

Puree of ham is prepared as follows : 
pound lean boiled ham in a mortar with 
some stock that has been boiled down to 
half glaze ; rub through a wire sieve. If too 
stiff, moisten with a little more melted glaze. 



XYII. 

COLD EXTRJ^ES, OR CIIAUDFROIDS. 

These elegant dishes are suitable for for- 
mal breakfasts, luncheons, and suppers, and 
while presenting an unusually attractive ap- 
pearance, are easier to manage than less 
elaborate dishes, because they can usually be 
prepared, all but garnishing, the day before. 

Although in giving the recipes meat cooked 
for the purpose will always be directed, and 
for formal purposes no care or expense should 
be spared, the intelligent reader will see 
where she may make a very pretty dish by 
utilizing cold fowl, game, or lamb for any 
simple occasion. 

Sweetbreads au Montpellier. — Parboil a pair 
of fine white sweetbreads, after soaking them 
in salt and water an hour. Let them get cold 
between two plates under slight pressm^e. 



154 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Cut them into the form of cutlets (cutlet cut- 
ters are to be obtained at the fashionable 
Ne\y York hardware stores, and at the large 
French tin-shops down-town). Have some 
firm aspic jelly not quite set ; dip each cutlet 
in it ; chop some aspic that is hard and cold 
roughly ; form' a circle of it ; arrange the cut- 
lets on this ; fill the centre with asparagus 
heads ; pour mayonnaise round, and garnish 
with fancy shapes of aspic, red and white 
alternateh". Ked aspic is colored with pulp 
of the red beet stirred into it while liquid 
and then strained out ; green is produced by 
spinach. The various shades of amber, shad- 
ing into rich brown, that are so effective 
when tastefully mingled, are due to caramel 
coloring. When colored aspic is required for 
garnishing, pour off a little into separate ves- 
sels, and color each as required. 

Chiclcen Salad a la Prince. — Cut the white 
meat of cold fowl into neat fillets, using a 
very sharp knife, so that there may be no 
ragged edges. Mask each piece with a mixt- 



COLD ENTREES, OR CHAUDFROIDS. 155 

ure made as follows : One tablespoonf ul of 
finely minced capers, two of minced boiled 
liam, three hard-boiled eggs, an anchovy 
boned and washed, and two sardines freed 
from skin. All these must be well pounded, 
then rubbed through a sieve ; add a teaspoon- 
ful of finely minced tarragon and chives. 
Stir all into a tablespoonful of mayonnaise 
and one of aspic, semi-fluid of course. When 
each fillet has been well coated with the 
mixture and has set, line a border mould 
Avith aspic jelly, ornament the fillets of chick- 
en with little strips of beet-root and cucum- 
ber arranged like a trellis-work. Place them 
very carefully round the mould on the layer 
of aspic, then pour in a little more aspic, 
until the border mould is full, and set it on 
ice. When about to serve have a dish well 
layered with the small leaves of lettuce. 
Drop the mould for one minute in warm 
water, and turn out on to the lettuce. Fill 
the centre with a salad composed of cucum- 
ber cut into dice, peas, string-beans cooked 



156 CHOICE COOKERY. 

until tender (for this purpose the canned 
French string-beans serve admirably, being 
beautifully cut ready). Pour over the centre 
salad some thick mayonnaise. 

AVhere mayonnaise makes too rich a dish 
for the digestion, bechamel sauce may be sub- 
stituted for masking, but never for salad ; 
for instance, two very simple chaudfroids 
of chicken may be made as follows : 

Chaudfroid of Chiclaen, ]^o. 1. — Cut up a 
young fleshy chicken into neat joints, remove 
the skin, mask each piece carefully with be- 
chamel sauce ; when quite set arrange on 
chopped aspic in a circle, garnish with strips 
of cucumber and beet ; cut the remainder of 
the cucumber and beet into neat pieces, and 
stir into a gill of mayonnaise, and use for the 
centre. This and all salads should be lightly 
seasoned before the mayonnaise is added, or 
they are apt to taste flat. 

Chaudfroid of Chicken^ I^o. 2. — Prepare 
the chicken as in last recipe, only before 
masking the joints season the bechamel well 



COLD EXTEEES, OK CHAUDFROIDS. 157 

with finely chopped tarragon ; leave out the 
mayonnaise and aspic. Pile up the pieces of 
chicken on the entree dish, and garnish witli 
Roman lettuce, or, if that is not to be had, 
the hearts of Boston lettuce. 

C'Jiickeii and Ham Cutlets. — Boil a young 
fowl with a good breast in clear stock ; take 
it out, let it get cold ; cut the breast into 
rather thin slices. The bones, skin, and trim- 
mings may be thrown back in the stock, 
Avhich can be boiled down to make both the 
bechamel and aspic for the dish (see recipes), 
or be kept for other purposes. Take the 
slices of chicken and some very well cooked 
lean ham that is cut so thin you can see 
the knife under the slices. Melt a little be- 
chamel sauce, that must be like blanc-mange, 
pour it on a plate, and before it has time to 
cool cover the plate with the slices of chicken. 
Dip the ham into the stock (if it has been 
boiled down to jelly, otherwise into melted 
aspic), lay the ham over the chicken, then 
more thin slices of chicken. Now cover the 



158 ^CHOICE COOKERY. 

AYliole by means of a spoon v;itli more be- 
chamel ; when all this sets, which, as your 
sauce has only been half melted, it will do 
quickly, you have a large white cake about 
half an inch thick. Cut this cake into small 
pieces (unless you have a cutlet cutter), as 
like a cutlet in form as possible, using a sharp 
penknife or boning -knife. Take up each 
carefully, and with the end of a silver knife 
or small spoon cover the edges with the be- 
chamel sauce, which must be nearly set for 
this purpose. 

To garnish the cutlets, cut some tiny green 
leaves from pickled gherkins, and red ones 
from the skin of a red pepper-pod, and place 
two of each in the centre of each cutlet, star- 
shaped ; a touch of Avhite sauce will make 
them stick ; place a speck of parsley not 
larger than a pin's head in the centre. Stick 
a tiny lobster claw three quarters of an inch 
long at the narrow end of the cutlet, and 
place them in a silver dish round some aspic 
of a bright amber color, chopped. Put a 



COLD ENTREES, OR CHAUDFROIDS. 159 

very small sprig of parsley between each 
cutlet. 

I may here remind the reader that when 
aspic or bechamel is used for masking or for 
pouring into a mould as lining, etc., it must 
Qiot he made hot, only softened in a bowl set 
in warm water, just enough to be free from 
lumps. It must, of course, be stirred from 
the moment it begins to soften. The mould 
to be lined should be turned about till it is 
well coated, and if there is a disposition to 
run off the sides, roll it round in ice. For 
instance, when the first layer of bechamel is 
poured on the plate as directed in last recipe, 
it must be moved about until quite covered, 
yet very thinly. If it sets too soon, hold the 
bottom of the plate over steam. 

Reed-Virds in Aspic. — Take the back and 
breast bone from a dozen birds, splitting 
them down the back first. Save the feet. 
Make a force-meat of pate de foie gras and 
panada in equal proportions ; season highly, 
spread the inside of the birds, sew them up 



160 CHOICE COOKERY. 

as nearly in shape as possible ; bake seven 
to ten minutes, then dip them into glaze; 
put a little paie aspic in a dozen dariole 
moulds, enough to cover the bottom a quar- 
ter of an inch, and when just set put in a 
bird breast down ; set on ice a few minutes, 
then pour in aspic to cover the bird a quarter 
of an inch. Put on ice. Turn out, and on 
the top of each strew^ pistachio nuts chopped 
very fine. Insert the two feet of the bird, 
scalded and dried, to stand up from the 
centre. 

Chaudfroid of J^eed-M/rls. — TveiMre as in 
last recipe with, fdte de foie gras force-meat. 
Butter a dozen dariole moulds. Put a bird 
in each, breast downward ; put the dariole 
moulds in a pan with a little water, and set 
it in the oven for fifteen minutes ; when cold, 
turn out che birds, wipe them, dip each in 
brown chaudfroid sauce, and put them on a 
dish to cool. When cold, lay them in rows 
against a pile of chopped aspic. 

Brown Chaudfroid Sauce is made by put- 



COLD ENTEEES, OR CHAUDFROIDS. 161 

ting a pint of Spanish sauce, a gill of cream, 
half a pint of aspic jelly together, and boil- 
ing them until they are reduced one quarter. 
Skim constantly, and strain for use. 

W/iite Cliaudfroid Sauce is simply becha- 
mel and aspic treated in the same way. It 
differs, of course, from plain bechamel in hav- 
ing the piquant flavor of the aspic; in ap- 
pearance there is little difference. 
11 



XYIII. 

COLD ENTIJEES. 

Iced Savory Souffle. — This dish can be 
made of fish, game, or chicken, but is con- 
sidered best made of crab. Cut up the crab, 
or whatever it may be, into small pieces ; let 
it soak in mayonnaise sauce for tAvo or three 
hours. Have some well-flavored aspic jelly, 
half liquid ; whip it till it is very frothy ; 
put some of this at the bottom of the dish it 
is to be served in — a silver one is most effect- 
ive ; then place a layer of crab well seasoned, 
and fill it up with aspic and crab alternately 
until the dish is nearly full ; place a band of 
stiff paper round, and fill in with whipped 
aspic ; set it on ice for two hours ; take off 
the paper, and serve. 

Savoines. — Within the last few years, which 
may, perhaps, be called the renaissance of 



COLD ENTKEES. 163 

cooking ill England, since Kettner, in his 
" Book of the Table," shows that in the Mid- 
dle Ages that country was famous for its cui- 
sine, while France was still benighted — with- 
in the last few years, then, there has grown 
up a fashion of introducing preparations 
called savories. They vary very much, from 
the tiny little houchette of something very 
piquant, to be taken between courses as an 
appetizer — which, I believe, was the original 
idea— to quite important dishes suitable as 
entrees for formal breakfasts or suppers. 
But it is with the original "savory" as a 
piquant mouthful that they will take their 
place in this book. So important a part 
have they come to play in English menus 
(I am not now speaking of simple dinners) 
that the invention of a new ''savory" is 
something to be proud of, and it is said that 
the very best are invented by the hons vivants 
themselves, seldom by the chef. One lady 
has written a book of which savories is the 
only branch of cooking treated, and she says 



164 CHOICE COOKERY. 

in her preface, " Savories being at present so 
fashionable, and novelties in them so eagerly 
inquired for, I have been induced to publish 
a small book on the subject." 

In looking over any list of small savories 
we find many of our old friends in it, such 
as cheese canapes, angels on liorsehack, anchovy 
toast, etc. "With these familiar dainties we 
will have nothing to do, only the mention 
of them will serve to show that any little 
piquant morsel may be used as an appetizer 
served as Jiors cVoauvres. 

The Savage Chcb Canapes. — These must be 
made small enough not to require dividing — 
in other words, can be eaten at one mouth- 
ful. Cut slices of stale Vienna bread a quar- 
ter of an inch thick, stamp out from them 
with a very small cutter circles about the 
size of a fifty-cent piece. Saute these in a 
little hot butter till they are a very pale 
brown. Lay them on paper when done, to 
absorb grease. Stone as many small olives 
as you have guests ; fillet half as many small 



COLD ENTREES. 165 

anchovies — that is to say, split them, and re- 
move the bones and scales ; wash them, dry 
them, and roll each one up as small as possi- 
ble, and insert it in an olive in place of the 
stone. Xow trim one end of the olive so that 
it will stand ; then put a drop of thick may- 
onnaise on the centre of one of the rounds of 
fried bread, which, of course, must be quite 
cold ; stand the stuffed olive on it neatly, and 
put one drop of mayonnaise on the top, to 
cover the opening in tlie olive. A variation, 
and I think an improvement, on this bouchee, 
is to use a little softened aspic to attach the 
olive, and a small quantity finely chopped to 
crown it. Still another plan is to put a tiny 
disk of bright-red beet on the top, using as- 
pic to cement it there. 

Canapes a la Bismarck. — Cut circles with 
a small cutter from slices of stale bread a 
quarter of an inch thick ; saute in butter till 
they are a light brown ; spread over each 
when cold a thin layer of anchovy butter ; 
curl round on each an anchovy well Avashed, 



166 CHOICE COOKERY. 

boned, and trimmed ; sprinkle very finely 
shred olives over them. Anchovy butter is 
two parts butter and one of anchovy paste. 

Caviar y Canapes. — Cat some slices of bread 
a quarter of an inch thick ; cut disks from 
them with a small round cutter; fry them 
pale brown in butter. When about to use 
them chop a large handful of water-cress 
leaves very fine, taking; care to press them in a 
cloth to remove all water before you begin to 
chop ; when they are almost as fine as pulp, 
mix with them an equal amount of butter ; 
when well blended, spread each canape with 
it, and spread a layer of caviare on the top. 

Prawns en Surprise. — Cut some small 
rounds of bread and butter, not more than 
two inches in diameter and a quarter inch 
thick. Peel some prawns ; steep them in 
mayonnaise sauce a few minutes ; place three 
on eacli round of bread-and-butter, with a 
small piece of water-cress on each. Place 
over all some wliipped aspic jelly; strew 
lobster coral over them. 



COLD ENTEEES. 167 

Prince of Wales Canapes. — Take some fine 
prawns, three anchovies, two gherkins, and 
two truffles. Bone the anchovies and wash 
them, peel the prawns, and then cut all the 
ingredients into very small dice. Make a 
sauce as follows : Bruise a hard-boiled yolk 
of Qg^g in a mortar with a tablespoonful of 
salad oil, a salt spoonful of mustard ; mix 
with this an anchovy and a teaspoonful of 
tarragon that has been scalded and chopped; 
pound all well together, and pass through a 
sieve with a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar 
and a speck of cayenne ; mix enougli of this 
with the prawns, etc., to season the mixture. 
Salt, it will be observed, is not mentioned, 
because the anchovies and prawns may be 
salt, but this can only be known to the cook 
by tasting. Butter some small water bis- 
cuits (crackers), put a small teaspoonful of 
the mixture on each, and cover with finely 
chopped aspic. Garnish by putting a spot 
of green gherkin on one, a spot of red beet 
on another, and on a third one of truffle, and 
so on alternately. 



168 CHOICE COOKEKY. 

Shrimj) Canapes. — Fry some rounds of 
bread as directed for other canapes. Make 
some shrimp butter by pounding equal quan- 
tities of shrimps, from which heads, tails, and 
shells have been removed, and fresh butter 
till they form a smooth mass; spread the 
fried bread Avith it. Place whole shrimps 
on the top in the shape of a rosette, in the 
centre of which put a tiny pinch of chopped 
parsley. 

Cheese Biscuits d la jSt. James. — Take three 
tablespoonf uls of the finest flour, half a pound 
of cream curds, and five ounces of Brie cheese, 
which has been carefully scraped, and a pinch 
of salt ; pound all in a mortar ; add ii\e ounces 
of softened butter and three eggs, to make a 
very stiff paste, which must l)e roUed very 
thin, and cut into round biscuits. Bake in 
a very quick oven, and serve hot. 

Klushis of Cream Cheese. — Take half a 
pound of fresh butter, six eggs, six table- 
spoonfuls of cream cheese, a pinch of pow- 
dered sugar, salt, and sufficient grated bread 



COLD ENTREES. 169 

crumbs to make a paste, adding cream if it 
crumbles ; mix well together, and roll into 
small balls ; poach them in boiling water un- 
til firm (no longer). Serve hot, with a spoon- 
ful of poivrade sauce on each. 

Cold Cheese Souffles. — Grate one and a half 
ounces of Gruyere cheese ; the same of Par- 
mesan. Whip half a pint of cream and a 
gill of aspic jelly to a high froth '; stir in the 
cheese ; season with salt, cayenne, and made 
mustard to taste. Fill little paper baskets 
or very small ramequin cases, grate cheese 
over the top, and set on ice to get firm. 

The above mixture may be frozen just as 
you would ice-cream, but very firm, then cut 
out in little cubes, and serve on canapes of 
fried bread ; it is then called " Croutes de 
Fromage Glace." 

Oysters a la Si. Geonje. — Take the beards 
from two dozen oysters ; put the melt (or 
soft roe) of two Yarmouth bloaters into a 
saute pan Avith two ounces of butter; dry 
and fioLir the oysters, and saute them Avith 



170 CHOICE COOKERY. 

the melt. Have some squares of bread fried 
a nice light brown ; place a nice piece of the 
melt on each square, and an oyster on top ; 
squeeze a few drops of lemon juice on each, 
and serve very hot. 

Allumettes. — For these fantastic little tri- 
fles you require anchovies preserved in oil — 
not in salt ; they are found at all Italian gro- 
ceries and at the larger American grocers'. 
Wipe them free from scales and oil ; cut each 
into long, thin strips. Have ready some plain 
pastry rolled very thin ; envelop each strip 
of anchovy in pastry ; pinch closely, so that 
it will not burst open, and fry in very hot 
fat for a half-minute, or saute them in but- 
ter till crisp and yellow. Serve log-house 
fashion, using two allumettes for each cross- 
ing instead of one ; put fried parsley in the 
corners, and serve very hot. 

Eggs n la St. James. — Take as many eggs 
as you have guests, and boil tliem hard in 
buttered dariole moulds ; the moulds must 
be large enough to hold the egg when broken 



COLD ENTEEES. 171 

into it, but not mucli larger. When quite 
cold remove the eggs ; slice off the white at 
one end of each, taking care to preserve the 
shape. Scoop out the yolk ; mix this with a 
teaspoonful of chopped truffles, a little pep- 
per and salt, and put it back very neatly into 
the whites. Coat the eggs with aspic jelly 
several times. Serve them upside down, that 
is, the uncut part upward. Put a spoonful 
of half-mayonnaise (mayonnaise mixed with 
whipped cream) on each, and a few specks of 
chopped truffle. 

A variety of this dish has anchovy paste 
in very small quantity in place of truffle, and 
the mayonnaise just made pink with it. 



XIX. 

GALANTINES, DALLOTIXES, ETC. 

Galantines are so useful *and handsome a 
dish in a large family, or one where many- 
visitors are received, that it is well worth 
while to learn the art of boning birds in or- 
der to achieve them. jSTor, if the amateur 
cook is satisfied Avith the unambitious mode 
of boning hereafter to be described, need the 
achievement be very difficult. 

Experts bone a bird whole without break- 
ing the skin, but to accomplish it much prac- 
tice is required ; and even where it is desir- 
able to preserve the shape of the bird, as 
when it is to be braised, or roasted and glazed 
for serving cold, it-»can be managed with care 
if boned the easier way. However, if nice 
w^hite milk-fed veal can be obtained, a very 
excellent o^alantine may be made from it, and 



GALANTINES, BALLOTINES, ETC. 173 

to my mind to be preferred to fowl, because, 
as a matter of fact, when boned there is such 
a thin sheet of meat that it but serves as a 
covering for the force-meat (very often sau- 
sage-meat), and although it makes a savory 
and handsome dish, it really is only glorified 
sausage-meat, much easier to produce in some 
other way. This is, of course, not the case 
with turkey ; but a boned turkey is so large 
a dish that a private family might find it 
too much except for special occasions. On 
the other hand, galantines of game, although 
the birds may be still smaller, are so full of 
flavor that it overwhelms that of the dressino-. 

o 

The following process of boning, however, 
applies to all birds. To accomplish the work 
with ease and success, a French boning-knife 
is desirable, but in the absence of one a sharp- 
pointed case-knife may do. Place the bird 
before you, breast down, with the head tow- 
ards you. Cut a straight line down the back 
through skin and flesh to the bone. Release 
with the left thumb and forefinger the skin 



174 CHOICE COOKERY. 

and flesh on the left side nearest to you, and 
with the right hand keep cutting away the 
flesh from the bone, pulHng it away clear as 
it is cut with the left hand. When you reach 
the wing joint cut it clean away, leaving the 
bone in the Aving, and continue cutting with 
the knife close to the bone until all the meat 
from the left breast is released. Return to 
the back and continue to separate the meat 
from the bone, always keeping the edge of 
the knife pressed close to the latter, until the 
leg is reached ; twist it round, which will en- 
able you to get the skin over it, and cut the 
joint from the body bone. Proceed with the 
right side in the same way, using your left 
hand for cutting and your right to free the 
meat (to some this would be very awkward, 
and when it is so turn the bird round). The 
bird will now be clear of the carcass. Lay 
the bird flat on the board, inside upward, 
then cut out the wing-bone and proceed to 
the legs ; cut the meat on the inside of each 
thigh down to the bone and clear the meat 



GALANTINES, BALLOTIXES, ETC. 175 

from it, cutting- it each side until you can lift 
the bone out ; then free the drumstick in the 
same way. 

If it be intended to stuff the bird in form, 
it would be necessary to bone the leg and 
wings from the inside, but for a galantine it 
is useless trouble, as they are to be drawn in- 
side the bird. Spread out the bird, having 
drawn legs and wings inside, season with a 
teaspoonful of salt and half a saltspoonful of 
Avhite pepper mixed together, and rubbed 
over the flesh, which must have been made 
as even as possible by cutting the thick parts 
and spreading them over the thin ones. If 
there are any bits of meat clinging to the 
bones they must be carefully gathered to- 
gether and chopped with a pound of veal and 
two ounces of lean cold boiled ham, with four 
ounces of fat, sweet, salt pork. (Butter may 
be substituted if pork is objected to). When 
all is chopped as flne as sausage-meat, season 
rather highly Avith pepper and salt. Spread 
a layer an inch thick over the bird ; then 



176 CHOICE COOKERY. 

add some long strips of tongue, some black 
truffles cut into dice half an inch square, and 
a few pistachio nuts. Dispose these, which 
may be called the ornamental adjuncts of 
the galantine, judiciously, so that when cut 
cold they will be well distributed. Cover 
carefully with another layer of force-meat, 
fold both sides over so that the force-meat 
will be well enclosed, form it into a bolster- 
shaped roll, tie it up in a linen cloth securely 
with string at each end, and sew the cloth 
evenly along the middle, so that the shape 
will keep even. Put it into a stewpan with 
stock enough to cover it, two onions, two 
carrots sliced, a stick of celery, a small bunch 
of parsley, a dozen peppercorns, an ounce 
of salt, and the bones of the bird, well 
cracked. Let it simmer gently for three 
hours and a half. Take it up, strain the 
liquor, and let the galantine get nearly cold. 
Take off the cloth ; wring it quite drj^ ; ^ut 
it on again, rolling the galantine as tight as 
j)ossible ; tie firmly, and place it on a platter ; 



GALANTINES, BALLOTINES, ETC. 177 

cover with another platter, and place a heavy 
weight upon it to press it into shape. Let 
the stock get cold. Take o& the grease. 
Add a half-teaspoonful of sugar and the juice 
of a quarter of a lemon to the stock, and re- 
duce by rapid boiling to a half-glaze, that is 
to say, a jelly firm enough to cut into forms 
without being tough. Clear with white of 
egg in the usual way, and when quite trans- 
parent pour part into shallow dishes, leaving 
enough to cover the galantine. Color one 
dish a rich clear brown ; leave the rest light. 
When the jelly thickens, but is not quite set, 
cover the galantine with it half an inch 
thick. When the jelly is cold, cut it into 
what are called croutons, which may mean 
vandyked strips, to be laid across, triangles, 
squares, or any fancy shapes ; the pieces and 
trimmings are chopped to scatter over the 
dish or lay in small piles round. 

Ballotines are small galantines made by 
treating small birds as directed in last recipe, 
only that the force-meat should have a larger 
12 



178 CHOICE COOKERY. 

proportion of truffles, and be made of the 
same kind of bird ; for instance, grouse would 
have rich force-meat of grouse. One grouse, 
however, would make two or four ballotines ; 
quails make two, to be served as individuals. 
Galantine of Breast of Veal. — Bone a 
breast of young white veal very carefully, 
spread it out as flat as possible on the board, 
pare the meat at the ends for about an inch 
so that the skin may project beyond. Take 
all the scraps of meat that may have come 
from boning, provided they are not sinewy ; 
take also twelve ounces of veal cutlet, and 
half the quantity of fat unsmoked bacon. 
Chop very flne, seasoning all rather highly. 
When the meat is fine, season the inside of 
the veal. Mix Avith the force-meat tongue, 
truffles, and pistachio-nuts or olives, all cut 
into half-inch dice (the tongue larger). So 
mix these that they will come at regular in- 
tervals through the stufflng. Eoll the breast 
round the stuffing, which is not spread, but 
laid in a mass, and sew the veal together. 



GALANTINES, BALLOTINES, ETC. 179 

Fasten it up in a cloth, tie securely at the 
ends, then tie bands of tape round at inter- 
vals to keep it in shape. 

Braise this galantine for six hours in stock, 
which may be made of a small knuckle of 
veal and the bones and trimmings. Vege- 
tables as directed for chicken galantine. 

Let the galantine be cold before it is un- 
tied. Garnish and glaze as directed for 
chicken. 

Galantine is occasionally made of sucking 
pig, and is very popular in France. The pig 
must be carefully boned, all but the head and 
feet. A sufficient quantity of veal, of fat un- 
smoked bacon, and of bread panada must be 
chopped and pounded to make enough force- 
meat to stuff the pig in the proportion of 
one part bacon, two panada, and three of 
veal, seasoned with a teaspoonful of onion 
juice and two of powdered sage. 

The pig's liver must have been boiled in 
stock, and cut in dice. There must be fillets 
or strips of rabbit or chicken, a few chopped 



180 CHOICE COOKEEY. 

truffles and olives. Mix well. Lay in the 
fillets as you stuff the pig, and when full sew 
up the opening. Try to keep the shape as 
near as possible. Then braise slowly for 
four to five hours, as directed for 2:alantine 
of veal. Do not remove the cloth till it is 
cold. 



XX. 

HOW TO " FILLET."— COLD GAME PIES. 

I HAVE spoken several times of '' filleting." 
To some readers an explanation of the term 
may be necessary. To " cut up " a bird 
does not indicate the meaning, nor does the 
term " to carve " it do so, because to carve 
means to cut up or divide with an exact ob- 
servance of joints and ''cuts." Filleting, 
when applied to anything without bones, as 
the breast of a bird or boned fish, means to 
cut into very neat strips that are thicker 
than slices ; but when you are directed to 
'' fillet " a grouse or a chicken, it is intended 
that you should cut it into small neat por- 
tions regardless of joints and without the 
least mangling of it ; therefore a very sharp 
knife must be used, and either a small sharp 
cleaver or a large cook's knife only to 



182 CHOICE COOKEKY. 

be employed Avlieii a bone has to be cut 
through. 

Tol^iUtt Cool'ed Birds : Grouse, P/ieascmts, 
or Poultry. — Cut the bird iu half straight 
down the middle of the breast -bone, usino- a 
large sharp knife for the purpose. Lay each 
half on the table and take out the breast-bone 
from either side. If the bird is a large fowl, 
duck, or partridge, each breast will make 
three fillets, and leave a good piece with the 
wing, but average birds only make two breast 
fillets. Chop off the pinions within an inch 
of the meat, then cut the wing in two neatly ; 
drumsticks are to be chopped olf close to the 
meat, and divided into two fillets {\i a large 
chicken or duck ; leave game whole) ; cut the 
thigh in two also. Trim very neatly ; leave 
no hanging skin ; indeed, when filleting for 
chaudfroids the skin should be entirely re- 
moved, and both it and the leg-bones are re- 
moved for pies. ^Yhen possible, it is better 
not to use the drumsticks. From a. chicken 
thev make an admirable '* devil," and from 



COLD GAME PIES. 183 

game they help the bones and trimmings to 
make a rich gravy ; so it is no waste to dis- 
card them. 

Cold pies are of two kinds : the one cooked 
in a terrine or dish without pastry ; the other 
in what the English call a " raised paste," 
and the French di> pate chaiide. Those with 
paste — which is seldom eaten — are far hand- 
somer, but do not keep so well — that is to 
say, the}^ must be eaten within three or four 
days even in winter ; while in a terrine care- 
fully kept in a cool airy place the pie will be 
good at the end of three weeks. 

On the other hand, the pie in a terrine 
is much less trouble to make. Proceed as 
follows : 

Game Pie. — Make some force-meat thus : 
Fry a quarter of a pound of fat ham cut in 
dice with half a pound of lean veal. Take 
the ham up before it gets brown, as you do 
not need it crisp ; when the veal is cooked 
take that up also, And if there is enough of 
the ham fat in the pan, put in half a pound 



184 CHOICE COOKERY. 

of calf's liver cut up in dice, if not, saute it in 
butter. In sauteing all these they must be 
often stirred, as you want them well cooked 
and yet not very brown. When done they 
must be finely chopped, then pounded in a 
mortar, with a small teaspoonf ul of salt, and 
half a saltspoonful of pepper. Then add 
a dozen mushrooms chopped, and mix the 
whole. 

A game pie is usually made rather large, 
and the greater variety of game used, the 
better ; partridge, pheasant, grouse, hare, all 
help one another, but at least two kinds :are 
necessary. It must be boned and neatly fil 
leted into small joints. Put on all the bones 
and trimmings to stew in three pints, of Ava 
ter, with a good-sized carrot, onion, a stick 
of celery, a small bouquet, a clove, a tea- 
spoonful of sugar, one of salt, and a little 
pepper; boil all this until the bones look 
white and dry when out of the stock. Strain, 
and reduce by rapid boiling to a half -glaze ; 
put a layer of the force-meat at the bottom 



COLD GAME PIES. 185 

of the dish, then one of boned game, with a 
sprinkhng of pepper and salt, and either a 
little finely chopped parsley or, what is far 
better, a few thin slices, of truffles ; pour over 
a little of the reduced stock ; fill the dish in 
this way to within an inch of the top ; make 
a plain flour-and-w^ater paste, lay it on the 
pie, and make a hole in the centre, bake 
slowly in a pan of hot water. When cold, 
remove the paste, cover the top with chopped 
aspic, fold a napkin, and serve the terrine on 
it, with a wreath of parsley round the base. 
Game pie is not a dish to be eaten at one or 
even two meals (unless very small), therefore 
the aspic must be fresh each time it is served. 
French Method of Making a Game Pie or 
Pate Chaude. — Make a paste of two pounds 
of flour and one of lard or batter, with salt 
to taste and about half a pint of Avater; 
knead it into a smooth, rather hard paste ; 
put it into a damp napkin for an hour. But- 
ter a raised pie dish — a tin one that opens to 
release the pie — line it with the paste rolled 



186 CHOICE COOKERY. 

half an inch thick, letting it come half an 
inch above the dish ; line the inside of the 
paste Avith buttered paper, bottom and sides, 
and fill with rice or corn meal; cover Avith 
another piece of buttered paper, wet the top 
of the pastry all round, and lay a cover of 
thin pastry over it ; trim very neatly, make 
a hole in the centre, and ornament with 
leaves cut from the paste and laid on ; the 
under side should be slightly moistened to 
make them adhere. Brush the surface with 
well-beaten egg, and bake about an hour, 
when it should be a nice golden brown. 
Take off the cover; after it has slightly 
cooled, remove the rice or meal and the but- 
tered paper ; take the case from the mould, 
and brush it all over Avith egg inside and 
out ; set it in the oven until the glazing dries, 
and any part that may not be sufficiently 
broAvn becomes the color of the cover, Avhich, 
being glazed at first, is not returned to the 
oven. 

Preparation for Filling the Case. — Fillet 



COLD GAME PIES. 187 

chickens, guinea-hens, partridges, or grouse 
(leave pigeons or quails whole, but bone 
them). Put sufficient pieces of one sort, or 
all sorts mixed, to fill the pate chaude case 
into a saute pan, with two ounces of butter, 
and saute till lightly colored. Take them 
out, and put them in a stewpan with a quart 
of reduced consomme, half a pint of mush- 
rooms sliced, a dozen truffles cut into dice 
(half-inch), a teaspoonful of salt, a little pep- 
per, and a wineglass of sherry, and let them 
simmer very gently, not hoil, for half an hour, 
or until very tender. Let them cool, and 
when lukewarm arrange them in the pate 
case, leaving the centre hollow, which till 
with mushrooms and truffles. The liquor in 
which they were stewed must be then poured 
over them. The cover of a pate chaude case 
is often not used, and aspic jelly covers the 
top of the pie. 

English Manner of MaVing Game Pie in 
a Crust. — Use at least two kinds of game, 
Avhich for this pur])ose must not be long kept ; 



188 CHOICE COOKERY. 

high game is acceptable to epicures when 
roasted or stewed, but never in a pie. Dis- 
card all parts blackened by shot. Cut into 
neat joints, from ^vhich bones must be re- 
moved. Take all the fragments from the 
carcass after the breast and joints are re- 
moved, and the liesh of a small bird or hare, 
or, failing that, some calf's liver fried in dice ; 
pound whichever you may have for force- 
meat in a mortar with four ounces of bacon 
that has been boiled ; wdien the whole forms 
a paste (from which you have removed all 
strings, sinew, or gristle while pounding), 
season with pepper and salt — a teaspoonful 
of salt to a pound of force-meat, and a. scant 
half saltspoonful of pepper. Put on the 
bones, without vegetahleSy in cold water to 
simmer until it is a rich broth, wdiich strain, 
and boil rapidly till a little set on ice in a 
saucer will jelly. Make what is called 
" raised '' paste in the following way: To 
two pounds of flour use three quarters of a 
pound of butter and half a pint of scalding 



COLD GAME PIES. 189 

milk ; pour this into a hole in the centre of 
the flour, and knead into a firm paste, adding 
a little more milk if necessary (but it seldom 
is). This paste is not to be rolled, but l)eaten 
out with the hand while warm to half an 
inch thickness. Line a well-buttered meat- 
pie mould, with a hinge opening at the side ; 
leave half an inch of paste above the mould ; 
trim off neatly with scissors. Then lay in 
tiie game and force-meat in alternate la3'ers, 
seasoning the joints with pepper and salt as 
you lay them. A few slices of tongue and 
truffles to form one layer are desirable. 
AVhen the mould is full, lay on the cover, 
moisten the under edge, and pinch round in 
tiny scallops. Make a hole in the centre, 
round which put an ornament ; stick in a 
Ijone to prevent the hole closing, and bake 
two to four hours in a moderate oven, ac- 
cording to size, remembering alwaj^s that 
the crust will not be injured by long baking, 
and that the game in this pie is uncooked. 
When it is removed from the oven, let it 



190 CHOICE COOKERY. 

stand half an hour, taking the moukl off, 
that it may cool ; then brush the sides and 
top with an egg beaten Avith milk, and re- 
turn the pie to the oven that the sides may 
brown ; cover the top, if it is already highly 
colored, with a sheet of paper. Remove the 
bone from the centre, insert a small funnel, 
and after removing all fat from it, pour in 
the gravy from the bones. The gravy must 
be poured very slowly or it will bubble up, 
and care must be taken to have all the pie 
will hold, yet not a drop too much, or it Avill 
ooze somewhere. These pies, Avhen quite 
cold, may be sent any distance, and are much 
used in England and Scotland for hunting- 
parties, besides being a standard breakfast 
and luncheon dish. The crust is merely a 
frame to hold the game. 



XXI. 

GARXISHES. 

In all choice cookery the appearance of 
dishes has to be carefully studied. Ho\Yever 
good the taste may be, the effect will be 
spoiled if its appearance on the table does 
not come up to the expectation raised by the 
name on the menu. For this reason the sub- 
ject of garnishes requires to be considered 
apart from the dishes they adorn. In the 
old time garnishes were few and simple, and 
Avhen not simple, very ugly, as the camellias 
cut from turnips and stained with beet juice. 
Xowadays garnishes are many, and many so 
termed form part of the dish, as what are 
termed, " floating garnishes for soup," que- 
nelles, etc. Garnishes that are merely orna- 
mental need not be so expensively made as 
those intended for eatmg. Foremost among 



193 CHOICE COOKERY. 

fashionable floating garnishes for soup are 
the colored custards known as piite royale ; 
they are perfectly easy to make, yet very ef- 
fective served in clear bouillon. 

Colored Custard. — Prepare the custard 
with five yolks of eggs, a gill of cream or 
strong bouillon, and a pinch of salt ; butter 
small saucers or cups ; divide the custard in 
three — color one Avith spinach juice or pulp 
of green asparagus, another with red tomato 
pulp or the 2:>ulp of red carrot boiled, and a 
third with pulp of beets. A few drops of co- 
chineal may be added to intensify the color 
of the last, which is apt to be a beautiful 
pink instead of red. The custard for which 
pulps are used must be strained after they 
are added, expressing as much of the juice as 
])ossible. The custard should be flavored 
delicately with the vegetable used for color. 

Sjyinach Juice is very frequently directed 
to be used as coloring, but scarcely anywhere 
is any indication given that the juice without 
preparation is of yqvj little use. It should 



GARNISHES. 193 

be prepared as follows : Take a large hand- 
ful of fresh green spinach, wash it, and re- 
move decayed leaves only ; drain well, then 
pound in a mortar or chopping-bowl until 
quite mashed. Let it stand a quarter of an 
hour, then squeeze the mass in a cloth, and 
put the green water into a cup, which set 
over the fire in a small saucepan of water ; 
watch the scum rise ; when it stands quite 
thick at the top and turns a vivid green, re- 
move at once (if it remains on the fire after 
this the green darkens); pour the contents 
of the cup through cheese-cloth or thin mus- 
lin laid in a strainer. The scum that re- 
mains is your coloring matter. It must be 
carefully scraped off with a spoon, and mix 
Avith the custard only as much as is required 
to give a delicate green tint. If any is left 
it may be mixed with an equal quantitv of 
salt and put away ; it loses color, however, 
after a few days. 

The colored custards must be set in water, 
a small piece of buttered paper over each, 
13 



194 CHOICE COOKERY. 

and the water allowed to boil gently round 
them till they are lirm. Let them get quite 
cold ; then cut them into cubes or diamonds. 

Profiterolles. — Perha])s the next in popu- 
larity of these floating garnishes wee j)^'oJite- 
rolles, or " prophet's rolls," as cooks call them. 
They are made exactly like those intended 
for dessert, omitting sweetening of course, 
and a very small quantity is required, as they 
must be dropped no larger than a pea, and 
baked dij^ale fawn-color. 

Put a gill of water and a pinch of salt and 
two ounces of butter in a small saucepan ; as 
soon as they begin to boil draw the sauce- 
pan back and stir in four ounces of flour; 
beat Avell over the fire with a wooden spoon 
until it becomes a soft paste, then add the 
yolks of two eggs and white of one, beating- 
each yolk in separately. It will be seen that 
the paste is similar to that made for cream 
cakes. 

A similar garnish is made in the following 
w^ay : Beat an egg with a pinch of salt, and 



GARNISHES. 195 

then stir in as much dry sifted flour as the 
Qoro- will moisten : work it well with the 
hands till it is elastic, although stiff. Roll it 
on a pastry board until it is as thin as paper, 
then roll it on a clean linen cloth still thin- 
ner, and leave it a quarter of an hour to dry. 
Then fold the paste, press it very tightly to- 
gether, and with a tin cjdinder, not larger 
in diameter than a cent, cut out, with consid- 
erable pressure, as many small disks as you 
require to allow five or six to each plate of 
soup. Have ready in a small saucepan some 
smoMiig hot lard. Drop the disks in ; they 
will puff and swell till they are like marbles. 
Stir them, and take them out of the fat ; 
they require only a few seconds to brown, 
and must be taken out verv pale. Add to 
the soup the last thing before serving. 

AYhile aspic jelly is certainly the hand- 
somest of garnishes for cold dishes, it is gen- 
erally part of the food itself, and should not 
be so lavishly used that when helped there 
is more jelly than meat served. Where the 



196 CHOICE COOKERY. 

jelly is intended only for a garnish not to be 
eaten, simple gelatine is suiRcient. For in- 
stance, a large platter containing a galan- 
tine or a chaudfroid may have a handsome 
wreath glued on the border, of red and green 
leaves, or holly leaves and red berries, or any 
device that need not be disturbed by the 
carver. 

For such decorations as these gelatine is 
melted in proportion of three ounces to a 
scant quart of water, cleared with white of 
Qgg^ and then colored pale yellow with car- 
amel or saffron, vivid red with cochineal, 
and bright green with spinach ; it saves time 
and trouble to let this congeal on dishes in 
thin sheets. Small cutters of ivy, oak, and 
other leaves can readily be purchased at the 
large house-furnishing stores. 

One word here about uneatable decorations, 
never admit them at a children's party ; they 
are the very part of the feast the little peo- 
ple will most crave ; red leaves for them must 
be of red currant-jelly, yellow of white, etc. 



GAKNISHES. 197 

'' Forced butter "is another form of gar- 
nish which adds much to the appearance of 
glazed ham or tongue. It is butter beaten 
to a white cream, then put in a forcer, and a 
pattern traced on the ham^ which must be 
followed just as in icing a cake. 

A Few Ways of Cooking Yegetables. — It is 
not intended to go into the general cooking 
of vegetables, although it may be said that 
even the choicest cooking can offer no great- 
er luxury, or, alas ! a greater rarity, than a 
dish of early peas or asparagus perfectly 
cooked. But this is not the place to remedy 
the wholesale spoiling of summer vegetables 
that goes on in almost every kitchen. I will 
only give what may be a few new ways of 
preparing familiar vegetables. 

Stuffed Artichokes. — Wash the artichokes; 
boil till nearly tender ; drain them ; remove 
the middle leaves and '^ chokes " (this is the 
fibrous part round the base) ; lay in each a 
little rich force-meat, and put them in the 
oven to cook until the meat is done. Serve 
with rich brown gravy. 



198 CHOICE COOKEEY. 

Fried Artichokes. — Cut in slices length- 
wise ; remove the chokes, cut off the tops of 
the leaves, wash them in vinegar and water, 
drain them, and dip them in frying batter. 
Fry in very hot oil or lard. Serve with fried 
parsley sprinkled with salt. 

Beet-root Fritters. — Cut boiled beets in 
slices ; slice raw onions ; scald them ; dry 
them well ; then lay one slice of onion, 
sprinkled with chopped chervil, pepper, and 
salt, between two slices of beet. Dip them 
carefully in frying batter, and plunge into 
boiling fat ; when pale brown take them vi^. 

Caulifloiver Fritters. — Parboil the cauli- 
flower — that is to say, boil nntil it begins to 
be tender — about fifteen minutes ; then plunge 
it into ice-cold water; this keeps it white. 
Break it up into branches. Dip each one 
into thick bechamel sauce slightly warmed ; 
let them get cold ; then take each piece 
separately and dip it into carefully made fry- 
ing batter, and drop them into boiling lard ; 
fry a pale brown, and serve garnished Avith 
fried parsley. 



XXII. 

VARIOUS WAYS OF SERVING VEGETABLES. 

Stuffed Cucwiibers. — Cut large-sized young 
cucumbers into slices about two inches thick, 
rejecting the ends. Peel, and remove the 
seeds ; scald the slices for ten minutes, plunge 
them into cold water, and drain them. Line 
a fire-proof china dish with very thin slices 
of unsmoked bacon which has been scalded ; 
make some veal force-meat such as directed 
for galantines ; fill the holes in the centre of 
the rings of cucumber till it is level with the 
surface on both sides ; wrap each up in a slice 
of bacon broad enough to cover it. Tie round 
with a string, pour a pint of strong stock into 
the dish, and bake twenty minutes in a slow 
oven. When done, take up the cucumber, 
drain, and remove the bacon carefully so as 
not to disturb the stuffing. Lay in a dish, 
and serve with Tlobert sauce. 



200 CHOICE COOKERY. 

In the following recipes the mushrooms to 
be used are the large flap ones. When canned 
ones will serve, the fact Avill be stated. 

21ushrooms Stuffed d la Lucullus. — Wash, 
dry, and trim large mushrooms ; chop up the 
stalks and broken ones fine ^vith a teaspoon- 
ful of minced parsley, pepper, salt, and a 
tomato ; make these hot in a tablespoonful 
of butter. Fill the mushrooms with the mixt- 
m^e, place them on a buttered baking- dish, 
and bake six minutes, basting them once or 
twice with clarified butter. 

Mushrooms and Tomatoes. — Toast some 
slices of bread, cut them into rounds two 
inches in diameter, and butter them. Peel 
some firm tomatoes, cut them into thick slices, 
and lay them on the toast. On the top of 
each place a peeled mushroom. Put them on 
a dish that can go to tal)le, pour a little clari- 
fied butter over them, put them in a hot oven 
for three minutes, and baste well. Serve hot 
and quickly. 

Mushroom Jelly. — Take two pounds of 



VAEIOUS WAYS OF SERVING VEGETABLES. 201 

mushrooms, put them in a stewpan over the 
fire with a gill of strong consomme. Squeeze 
in a few drops of lemon jaice, add a little 
pepper and salt, unless the consomme was 
salt enough. Melt in a gill of water half an 
ounce of gelatine, and strain it. When the 
mushrooms are quite soft, pass them through 
a sieve, mixed with the gelatine, and pour 
the mixture into a mould which has been 
rinsed with water. When set, tarn out and 
garnish with finely chopped aspic, and a few 
cherry tomatoes if in season. 

Mushroom Baskets. — Make some puff- 
paste ; roll it out mry thin. Line some small 
suitably shaped moulds (darioles will do very 
nicely) ; fill the centre with uncooked rice or 
flour to keep the shape while baking; cut 
some strips of paste, twist them, and bend 
them into the shape of handles ; bake them 
very pale. When the pastry cases are done, 
empty out the rice, remove them from the 
moulds, and fill with the following mixture : 
chop as many canned mushrooms as you re- 



202 CHOICE COOKERY. 

quire with a small shallot, squeeze to them 
the juice and pulp of a large tomato, and ])ut 
them in a stewpan with a tablespoonful of 
butter and a tablespoonful of very thick Avhite 
sauce. Stir till about the consistency to eat 
with a fork. Squeeze a few drops of lemon 
juice over the top. Put the handles in so that 
they stand over the tops. Decorate witli fried 
parsley. 

The large Spanish or Portuguese onion that 
has of late 3^ears appeared in the markets is 
not often properly cooked. It is the most 
delicate and delicious of all onions, lacking 
the usual intense heat and rank odor. Por 
this reason persons who Avish to eat onions, 
either for health or inclination, will find this 
large onion cut up with ordinary salad dress- 
ing a great improvement even on Bermudas. 
This onion is full of a milky juice, which is 
lost in cooking if it is cut. Tiierefore, where 
a simple dish is required, the best way is to 
boil it, without peeling or trimming, for three 
hours if it weighs three pounds (it must be 



VARIOUS WAYS OF SERVING VEGETABLES. 203 

tender right through) ; then take it up, strip 
it, and remove the root, stalk, etc. Pour 
over it a rich white sauce, and serve, taking 
care that the gravy that runs from the onion 
is served with it. A still better w^ay when 
an oven is not Avanted is to bake them. Put 
them in a dripping-pan in the oven without 
removing peel or stalk. Bake at least four 
hours in a moderate oven. It will burn and 
blacken outside, w^hich is of no consequence. 
Keep it turned so that the darkening may 
not go deeper one side than the other. When 
quite tender (but do not try it until it begins 
to shrink, or you will let out the juices), so 
that a knitting-needle Avill run through it, 
take it out of the oven, strip off three or four 
skins, remove root and stalk, and place the 
onion, w^ithout breaking it, on a dish ; put a 
piece of butter as large as an egg^ with a salt- 
spoonful of salt and a quarter one of pepper 
w^orked in it, on the onion ; cover it, and put 
in the oven till the butter melts, and serve 
very hot. 



204 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Stuffed Spanish Onion. — Parboil a Spanish 
onion ; then drop it into ice-water ; take out 
the centre and fill it with force-meat ; cover 
with a thin slice of sweet fat pork ; sprinkle 
with a teaspoonful of salt and the same of 
sugar ; add four tablespoonf uls of stock, cover 
closely, and cook over a good fire. AVhen 
the onion is tender, take it up, remove the 
pork, strain and skim the gravy, pour it over, 
and serve. The best force-meat for the stuff- 
ing is made of cold chicken, a shred of boiled 
ham, a little chopped parsle}^, half a dozen 
mushrooms, all chopped well and mixed with 
a tablespoonf ul of butter and pepper and salt. 

Potatoes a la Pmmnqale. — Mash and pass 
through a wire sieve two pounds of potatoes ; 
season with pepper and salt. Grate two 
ounces of Gruyere (Swiss) cheese, pound it 
with enough butter to make a paste, add a 
gill of milk and a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley ; put this in a saute pan, add the po- 
tato, mix all well, and stir until the mass is 
pale brown ; serve as a pyramid. 



VAEIOUS WAYS OF SERVING VEGETABLES. 205 

Milanese Potatoes. — Bake large potatoes 
till just tender ; cut off the tops, which keep. 
Scoop out the potatoes, but do not break the 
skin. Mash the inside with butter, pepper, 
salt, and grated Parmesan ; about a teaspoon- 
ful of butter and cheese to each will be the 
right proportion. Beat the potato mixture 
with a fork for a minute to make it light, 
refill the skins, put on the covers, and heat 
them in the oven. 

Sealloj)ed Potatoes. — Masli two pounds of 
potatoes with milk, and pass through a sieve ; 
add three ounces of butter melted, two 
ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and a lit- 
tle pepper and salt. Fill shells with this mixt- 
ure, and brown them in the oven. Glaze 
them over with butter melted and grated 
Parmesan ; return one minute to the hottest 
part of the oven. Serve very hot. 

Tomato Jelly. — Two pounds of tomatoes, 
half a grain of red pepper, and two small 
shallots. Place them in a stewpan and 
boil till quite soft. Melt half an ounce of 



206 CHOICE COOKERY. 

gelatine in as little white stock as possible ; 
add this to the tomatoes, and strain ; if not 
perfectly clear, clarify with white of egg 
in the usual way. Mould, and serve with 
chopped aspic round it. A little grated 
Parmesan may be sometimes sprinlded over 
it for a change. 

Tomato Souffle. — Prepare some tomato 
piQp, taking care to boil it down if too liquid ; 
stir in the yolks of three eggs, then the whites 
well beaten ; salt to taste. Fill either a large 
souffle case or several small ones. Bake in a 
hot oven till it rises very high and is set in 
the centre ; serve instantly. 

Spinach Fritters. — Boil the spinach till it 
is quite tender; drain, press, and mince it 
fine ; add half the quantity of grated stale 
bread, one grate of nutmeg, and a small tea- 
spoonful of sugar; add a gill of cream and 
as many eggs as will make a batter, beat- 
ing the whites separately; pepper and salt 
to taste. Drop a little from a spoon into 
boiling lard ; if it separates, add a little 



VARIOUS WAYS OF SERVING VEGETABLES. 207 

more crumb of bread; when they rise to 
the surface of the fat they are done. Drain 
them, and serve very quickly, or they will 
faU. 



XXIII. 

JELLIES. 

In this country culinary skill seems to run 
to sweet rather than to savory cooking ; very 
few housekeepers but make excellent jire- 
serves and cakes, yet the list of sweet dishes 
manufactured at home is very limited; as 
soon as anything not in this category is re- 
quired the caterer is applied to, and he has 
his list of water-ices, cream -ices, and me- 
ringues, with very little variation ; some- 
times, indeed, a new name appears on the 
list, but it turns out to be some old friend 
with a new garnish, or put in a diiferent 
mould and given an alluring name. There 
are many delicious sweet dishes not difficult 
to make when once the processes of making 
jelly and of freezing are understood (and very 
many who do not pretend to be good cooks 



JELLIES. 209 

are expert at these two things), and others 
which do not require even that abihty. To 
put a sweet dish on the table, however, in 
perfection, especially if it be an iced one, re- 
quires the utmost care and skill ; the slight- 
est carelessness in packing a frozen pudding, 
any delay between removing it from the ice 
and getting it on the dish, will destroy that 
dull, marble-like appearance it ought to wear 
when first it makes its entry, although it will 
gleam with melting sweetness long before it 
reaches the partakers. Happily there are 
many delightful sweets which are beautiful 
in appearance and less depending on atmos- 
phere than any of the family of ices. The 
simplest of these are fruit jellies. 

I spoke just now of the art of making jelly, 
and many readers may think in using such a 
term for so simple a thing I am exaggerating, 
and perhaps " art " is hardly the word, yet 
there is a daintiness and nicety in making 
jelly which almost deserves the term. 

However, before talking of how sweet dish- 
1-i 



210 choicp: cookery. 

es are to be made it is necessary to provide 
the means by which they are to be redeemed 
from the commonplace of mere richness and 
sweetness. The flavorings and liqueurs keep 
indefinitely if well corked. Orange-flower 
water, it is true, Avill lose strength, but when 
a bottle is first opened, if it is poured off into 
small vials, and each one corked and sealed^ 
it will keep its original strength. The fol- 
lowing list of articles kept in store will ena- 
ble a cook to give her cakes, creams, etc., 
just that ''foreign" flavor that home prod- 
ucts so often lack : almonds, almond paste, 
candied cherries, candied angelica, candied 
orange, lemon, and citron peels, ^^istachio- 
nuts, orange-flower water, rose-water, pre- 
pared cochineal, maraschino, ratafia, lemons, 
extract of vanilla, and sherry. 

Several of these things are used principally 
for decoration ; for instance, the candied cher- 
ries and angelica and the pistachio-nuts. Con- 
sequently, unless the cherries and angelicD 
are required for dessert (to which they are a 



JELLIES. 211 

ghowy and delicious addition), a quarter of a 
pound at a time is all that need be bought. 
Very likely in small cities or country places 
these latter articles may not be obtainable. 
But they are sold at the large city caterei^', 
also at the stores which deal in French crys- 
tallized fruits — not French candy stores — and 
can ahvays be sent by mail. 

The vanilla should be of the finest quality, 
and had better be bought by the ounce or 
half-pint from the druggist than from the 
grocer. There are good extracts put up, no 
doubt, but very many of them are largely 
made of tonka-bean, the flavor familiar in 
cheap ice-cream, in place of the more expen- 
sive vanilla. 

In the recipes that will be given the direc- 
tions will be as minute as possible ; but to 
prescribe the number of drops required to 
flavor a quart of cream would be utterly im- 
])ossible, the strength of the flavoring used 
difi'ering so greatly, even in lemons. Some- 
times the juice of half a lemon will be right 



213 CHOICE COOKERY. 

for a certain thing, at another the juice of a 
quarter of one woukl be too much. This is 
where judgment must be exercised. If you 
have a very juicy lemon, although your rec- 
ipe says the juice of half, you will remember 
that the average lemon Avould not yield near- 
ly so much, and that the author had the av- 
erage lemon in mind. This applies to all fla- 
voring. Sometimes extract of bitter almond 
is so strong that even a drop would be too 
much to impart the faint abiiond flavor which 
alone is tolerable. In this case the thing to 
do for fear of spoiling the dish is to pour a 
half-dozen drops in a teaspoonful of water, 
and use from that, drop by drop, until the 
faint flavor desired is attained. In using 
any flavoring, great care must be taken not 
to put too much, as anything in the least 
over-flavored is offensive. 

Mould of Apple Jelly. — Peel and cut up a 
pound of fine-flavored apples (to weigh a 
pound after preparation) ; put them in a stew- 
pan with three ounces of granulated sugar, 



JELLIES. 213 

half a pint of water, and the juice and grated 
rind of a lemon. When cooked to a pulp, 
pass through a strainer, and stir in one ounce 
of g-elatine that has been dissolved in a o-iH 
of water. Color half the apple with about 
half a teaspoonful of cochineal, and fill a 
border mould with alternate layers of the 
colored and uncolored apple. When cold, 
turn out and serve with half a pint of cream 
whipped solid and piled in the centre. 

There is a great difference in the solidity 
of whipped cream. Sometimes it will be a 
mere froth that shows a disposition to lique- 
fy, and cannot be piled up. AYhen this is 
the case there is always a great waste of 
cream, for at least half will have been left 
as a milky residue. The reason for this fail- 
ure of the cream to whip solid is generally 
because it is too fresh or too warm. 

If in proper condition, cream will whip as 
solid as white of eggs, and leave not a tea- 
spoonful of liquid at the bottom of the bowl ; 
nor will there be the least dano^er of cream 



214 CHOICE COOKERY. 

SO whipped going back to liquid. It will be- 
come sour, but not change its form ; and it 
will take but a few minutes to beat. 

Cream intended for whipping should be 
twenty -four hours old in warm weather, and 
thirty-six in winter. It should also be thor- 
oughly chilled, and if the day is very warm 
it would be better to set the bowl containing 
it on ice while whipping it. Put in the whip, 
or egg-beater, and do not lift the froth off as 
it rises ; it is quite unnecessary if the vessel 
you use for the cream is large enough. As 
you see it begin to thicken, which will be 
after steady beating for five or six minutes, 
keep on just as you would for white of eggs. 
AYhen the beater is withdrawn you should 
be able to cut the cream or pile it any height. 
If by reason of excessive heat it is slow in 
reaching the proper consistency, leave the 
beater in the bowl, and set the whole on the 
ice until very cold again. 

The consistency of jelly should be only 
just stiff enough to keep form. It should 



JELLIES. 215 

shake and tremble while being served in- 
stead of remaining solid. It requires some 
little practice to make sure of this every time, 
although exact proportions be given. A ta- 
blespoonf ul difference in the pint or gill meas- 
ure would, where the gelatine is only just 
enough, cause the jelly to '^ squat " — not an 
elegant term, but one that represents the 
form of a too soft jelly. 

A very exact recipe for plain claret jelly, 
and which in proportions serves for any other 
unless special mention is made of some vari- 
ation, is as follows : Three quarters of a pint 
of water, one pint of claret, a quarter of a 
pint of lemon juice (this makes one quart of 
liquid), the rind of one lemon, half an inch 
of cinnamon in the stick and two cloves, 
one tablespoonf ul of red currant jelly, two 
ounces of gelatine, the wdiites and shells of 
two eggs, a few drops of cochineal, and four 
ounces of sugar; put all in a stewpan, the 
gelatine having been softened in a little of 
the water ; whisk over the fire until the whole 



216 CHOICE COOKERY. 

boils ; then draw it ofip, let it stand for five 
to ten minutes; strain through flannel or 
line linen without jpressure^ add a few drops 
of cochineal to brighten the color, and mould 
for use. 

Use great care in selecting cinnamon, for 
very much that is sold is not the true spice, 
but a cheaper one (cassia) that resembles it. 
Cinnamon has a bright tan-color, is rolled 
many times, and is not much thicker than 
paper when a piece is unrolled. Cassia is 
thicker in the roll, a dull brown, and if a 
piece is broken is like a piece of wood. It 
is similar in flavor, but much coarser, and 
has little strength. 



xxiy. 

J'ELLlES.—Conti7med. 

If it is kept in mind that two onnces of 
gelatine to the quart of liquid is the right 
proportion, and that if even a tablespoonful 
of flavoring, fruit juice, or what not, is add- 
ed, exactly the same quantity of other liquid 
must be omitted, there will not be much 
danger of formless jelly. Many forget this 
when not working from an exact recipe, and 
remembering only that a quart of cream or 
water or wine requires two ounces of gela- 
tine to set it, they do not deduct for the 
glass of wine or juice of lemon, etc., they 
may add for flavoring. Although wine jelly 
is rather a simple form of sweet, suggestive 
of innocent country teas, a very little more 
time than the average housekeeper bestows 
upon it will convert it into a very elegant 



218 CHOICE COOKERY. 

dish. In the season for fruits there is no 
more beautiful ornament for jelly than 
these, carefully gathered, with two or three 
leaves attached. 

Jelly loith Fresh Fruits. — Select cherries of 
two or three colors if possible, in sprays of 
two or three, and on each a leaf or two ; 
wash them carefully by dipping them in and 
out of a bowl of water. Lay them between 
soft cloths to remove all moisture. Make a 
quart of punch jelly in the following way : 
Put together a pint of water, a quarter of a 
pint of the finest Santa Cruz or Jamaica rum, 
a quarter of a pint of sherry, a gill and a half 
of lemon juice, the rinds of two lemons, and 
the juice of one orange, or, if oranges are not 
to be obtained in cherry season, half a gill 
more of water, two ounces of gelatine, half 
an inch of cinnamon, the whites of two eggs 
well beaten and the shells crushed. Let this 
come to a boil over the fire, being well whisk- 
ed the while ; as soon as it boils draw it to a 
cool spot on the range, let it stand five min- 



JELLIES. 219 

utes, and strain through scalded flannel over 
a bowl; let it drip, but do not_use the least 
pressure. This jelly must be brilliantly clear. 
If there is any milky appearance it proves 
that the jelly did not really boil, and so the 
eggs had not completely coagulated ; in that 
event boil once more for an instant, and 
strain ao^ain throug-h fresh flannel. Oil a 
mould that has no design of fruit or vege- 
table at the bottom, and set it in cracked ice ; 
pour in an inch or two of the jelly when 
nearly cold. Have the cherries ice cold, and 
arrange the sprays gracefully with due re- 
gard to color, remembering that the best ef- 
fect must be not upward towards you, but 
towards the bottom of the mould ; thus the 
underside of the leaves must be upward, etc. 
Do not put in more fruit than will display 
itself well. The bunches are to be isolated, 
not allowed to touch each other, and for this 
reason it may not be possible to lay more 
than one cluster at the bottom, if the mould 
is small there. In this case dispose a bunch 



220 CHOICE COOKERY. 

of black cherries and leaves gracefully in the 
centre, pour in more jelly, half an inch or so, 
then nearer the sides arrange lighter-colored 
cherries, two or three clusters, no more. The 
fruit is only intended as an ornament. A 
jelly that is quite as pretty may be made by 
using clusters of red and white, or red, white, 
and black currants. The red and white ones 
should have two or three young leaves at- 
tached, and each cluster be perfect ; no black- 
currant leaves must be used, as they have a 
strong flavor. 

Jelly ivith Candied Fruits. — Make a quart 
of maraschino jelly, which is done by omit- 
ting the rum, lemon, and cinnamon from the. 
last recipe, and using in place of rum a gill 
of maraschino, and water in place of lemon 
juice. The jelly must be verj^ pale. Choose 
the fruits of as bright colors as possible — 
small green oranges, red cherries, bright yel- 
low mirabelles, angelica perfectly green. Cut 
the oranges in half — two or three will suifice 
— leave mirabelles and cherries whole ; apri- 



JELLIES. 231 

cots cut in half-moons. The angehea, if cut 
across a quarter-inch thick, will form rings, but 
if something more ornamental is desired it 
can be split lengthwise, softened in hot water, 
wiped, then tied into small love-knots. Pour 
into a mould set in ice (the melon shape is 
excellent for these jelUes) an inch of jelly, 
let it set ; then scatter in a few pieces of 
bright -colored fruit, always the best side 
downward ; pour in an inch more of jelly, 
and when set more fruit, keeping the bright- 
er pieces towards the side ; if you have knots 
of angelica, put them near the side. Always 
see that one layer of fruit and jelly is nearly 
set before adding more. 

Although fruits added to jellies in the way 
just described are chiefl}^ for decorative ef- 
fect, they do add very greatly to the pleasure 
of eating them ; but jellied fruits, as distin- 
guished ivom. fruits in jelly ^ are a delicious 
mode of eating fruit, and where it is in 
abundance afford a pleasant variety. 

Jellied Raspberries. — Melt two ounces of 



222 CHOICE COOKERY. 

gelatine in a gill of water, squeeze half a 
pint of currant juice from fresh currants, and 
crush as many red raspberries as Avill with 
the liquid fill a quart measure. It is almost 
impossible to give definite directions for 
sugar, as fruits differ so much. Stir in six 
ounces, then if not sweet enough add more ; 
mould the jelly, and serve with cream. 

This is also very nice put in a border 
mould, the centre filled with whipped cream. 

Roman Punch Jellies. — These require stiff 
paper cases of any of the Ornamental kinds 
used for ice-cream, but they must not flare. 
Make some maraschino or wine jelly. When 
it begins to set, pour the jelly into the cases, 
"which must be on ice, so that half the fluid 
jelly may set before it has time to soak the 
case. When quite set, very carefully remove 
the centre, leaving a shell of jelly half an 
inch thick. The last thing before serving 
fill the centres with Avell-frozen Roman-punch 
ice. 

A. Macedoine of fruits, if well managed 



JELLIES. 223 

and a good assortment of fruits can be bad, 
is a very ornamental way of serving fruit. 
A mould should have half an inch of mar- 
aschino, punch, wine, or lemon jelly poured 
into it; then some perfect strawberries, or, 
failing those, red cherries, as many as the 
jelly will hold together without crowding, 
no more ; then more jelly, and a layer of 
fruit of another kind (white, if possible), as 
pineapple cut into stars — a number of small 
stars can be stamped out of a few thin slices 
— more jelly, and a ring of dark fruit. Take 
care that all the finest fruits are used to 
form the outer rows. When the mould is 
almost full, with a layer or two of each kind 
of fruit, till it up with jelly and set on ice. 

Creams are a favorite sweet in Europe, 
and eaten ice cold are delicious. Too often 
they are confounded here with blanc-mange, 
which may mean anything from corn-starch 
and milk to gelatine and cream, but seldom 
is improved by the confectioner's art into a 
really handsome and dainty dish. 



224 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Ginger Cream. — Make a custard of a gill 
of milk, an ounce of powdered sugar, and 
the beaten yolks of three eggs. Stir in a 
double boiler until thick. Let it cool. Then 
add one gill of the syrup from a jar of pre- 
served ginger, and cut up two ounces of the 
ginger ; add three quarters of an ounce of 
gelatine melted in as little ^vater as possible. 
Last of all, add half a pint of cream whipped 
solid. Mix gently and till well blended ; pour 
into a mould, and set on ice. 

Neaj^olUan Cream. — Make a custard of 
half a pint of milk, the yolks of four eggs, 
and a tablespoonful and a half of powdered 
sugar. Let it cool. Cut up three ounces of 
preserved ginger very small ; cook it in a gill 
of ginger syrup for three minutes. Let it 
cool also. Decorate the mould with one 
ounce of dried cherries and leaves, etc., of 
jelly. Cut the cherries in half, glue them 
with a little melted jelly to the side and bot- 
tom of the mould ; cut some jelly in thin 
slices, or melt it and let it run into thin 



JELLIES. 225 

sheets, which allow to chill, and stamp from 
them leaves, or whatever shapes you please. 
Glue these also to the side of the mould in 
the most effective way jonr taste can devise. 
Stir one ounce of gelatine melted in very lit- 
tle water, and half a pint of cream whipped 
solid, to the custard with which you have 
already mixed the ginger and syrup. Pour 
all into the decorated mould, put on ice, and 
when it is to be turned out wrap a cloth 
dipped in hot water round the mould ; give 
it a smart slap on both sides, and it will turn 
out without difficulty. 
15 



XXY. 

COLD SWEETS.— CREAMS. 

Coffee Cream. — Make half a pint of cus- 
tard with two eggs and half a pint of milk ; 
dissolve an ounce of gelatine and three ounces 
of sugar in half a gill of strong coffee ; add 
the custard, and strain ; whip half a pint of 
cream quite firm; stir lightly into the cus- 
tard; when it is cool, pour into a mould, and 
set on ice. The excellence of this cream de- 
pends on the coffee, which must be filtered, 
not boiled, freshly made, and very strong — 
three tablespoonfuls of coffee to the half- 
pint. 

Curagoa Cream. — Make a custard with the 
yolks of four eggs and half a pint- of milk ; 
dissolve half an ounce of gelatine in as little 
liquid as possible ; mix it with two ounces of 
powdered sugar; add to the custard; then 



COLD SWEETS. CREAMS. 227 

stir in a generous glass of curacoa, and let 
the mixture cool, after Avliich add half a pint 
of cream whipped solid. Stir very lightly 
together until well blended ; then mould and 
set on ice. 

Strawherry Cream. — Hull a pint of quite 
ripe strawberries ; put them on a line sieve, 
and sprinkle an ounce of sugar over them ; 
put half an ounce of gelatine into a stewpan 
w^ith two tablespoonfuls of cold w^ater, two 
ounces and a half of powdered sugar, and the 
juice of a lemon, and let it dissolve by gentle 
heat. Pass the strawberries through the 
sieve ; strain the gelatine, etc., to the straw- 
berry juice, and put to get cold; then add 
half a pint of cream whipped solid. Stir 
very lightly to the strawberry juice, etc., 
when the latter is beginning to set. 

Vanilla Cream. — Make a custard Avith 
three yolks and one white of egg, and half a 
pint of milk and three ounces of sugar ; melt 
an ounce of gelatine in two tablespoonfuls 
of water, strain it to the custard, and mix 



228 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Avell; Avliip half a pint of cream to a stiff 
froth, and stir it gently to the custard and 
gelatine ; flavor with vanilla.' After the va- 
nilla is added, make a couple of spoonfuls of 
the custard pink with cochineal or straw- 
berry juice; let this cool in a thin sheet; 
stamp from it small clover leaves or lozenges, 
not over an inch long and tliree quarters 
broad ; decorate the bottom of a mould with 
them, using a little gelatine and water to 
fasten them ; set the mould in chopped ice, 
and about half-way up put four or five of 
the pink pieces ; take great care there is no 
inequality as to height or distance (slovenly 
decoration is worse than none). When the 
lozenges are quite secure in their places, pour 
in the cream. It is needless to repeat this 
form of decoration of creams, they can be 
varied so infinitely by individual taste, but 
as a rule they should be decorated only with 
small forms cut out of bright-colored jelly, 
or of cream colored ^Dink, orange, pistache 
green, or brown. Candied fruits are not ef- 



COLD SWEETS. CEEAMS. 239 

fective, although sometimes used, unless the 
cream itself has fruit in it. 

Fistache Cream. — Half an ounce of gela- 
tine, two ounces of powdered sugar; melt 
the gelatine in a gill of water, then add the 
sugar, a glass of sherry, and a glass of kirsch. 
Whip half a pint of thick cream solid, and 
when the gelatine is cold and beginning to 
thicken stir the cream to it very lightly, and 
at the same time two ounces of pistachio- 
nuts, blanched and chopped fine, with enough 
vegetable green coloring to make the cream 
a shade or two lighter in color than the nuts. 
This cream must be stirred lightly on ice af- 
ter the nuts are added, till thick enough for 
them not to sink. 

Almond Cream. — Half an ounce of gela- 
tine melted in a gill of water w4th two ounces 
of sugar and a glass of sherry; grate four 
ounces of almond paste into it, and stir in 
a double boiler or bowl set in boiling water 
until dissolved, or at least until there are no 
lumps. Let this get cool. Whip a pint and 



230 CHOICE COOKERY. 

a gill of cream solid, and stir to the mixture. 
Decorate a mould Avitli any red jelly, pour the 
mixture in, and set on ice. In consequence 
of the variation in the strength of gelatine, 
in making any of these creams try a little on 
ice in a saucer before pouring into a mould, 
then add more cream or gelatine as required. 

Cold Puddings and Frozen Puddings. — 
Some of these "puddings" might just as ap- 
propriately be called creams ; however, fash- 
ion ordains that they shall be puddings. One 
of the newest is the 

Jnhilee Pudding. — Make a pint of claret 
jelly; pour it into a small border mould; 
w^hip half a pint of cream in which is a quar- 
ter of an ounce of dissolved gelatine. When 
it is whipped solid, stir in one ounce of pre- 
served or candied cherries, one ounce of can- 
died angelica, one ounce of preserved ginger, 
and one ounce of preserved apricot— the gin- 
ger and angelica cut small. Set on ice ; then 
turn out. Pile the whipped cream and fruit 
in the centre, and decorate according to fancy. 



COLD SWEETS. — CREAMS. 231 

Cold Souffle Pudding a la Princesse. — 
Melt half an ounce of gelatine in a gill of 
cream ; set in boiling water till dissolved ; 
beat the yolks of three eggs well, and add to 
the milk ; when well mixed, put the custard 
into a double boiler till it thickens — it must 
not boil. Pour it into a bowl, and add a gill 
of apricot preserve, made into a puree by 
rubbing through a sieve with half a gill of 
orange juice, two ounces of sugar, a little 
lemon juice, and cochineal to color it a very 
delicate pink. Beat the whites of four eggs 
till they will not slip ; stir them in very light- 
ly with an upward motion of the spoon, the 
object being to keep the white of egg from 
falling, yet the whole must be thoroughly 
mixed. Stir till nearly cold before putting 
the souffle in a mould to set. 

Imperial Pice Pudding. — Pour a quarter 
of a pint of clear white jelly into a quart 
mould, turning the mould about so that the 
jelly covers every part ; this jelly serves to 
keep the ornaments in place. Cover the in- 



233 CHOICE COOKERY. 

side of the mould Avitli an ounce of candied 
cherries split and half an ounce of angelica 
cut into thin rings. Stew a quarter of a 
pound of rice in a pint of milk till tender ; 
when cool, add half a pint of whipped cream, 
a quarter of an ounce of gelatine melted in a 
little water, a quarter of a pound of powdered 
sugar, and a teaspoonf ul of vanilla. When it 
is all well mixed, turn the preparation into 
the mould, and set on ice. When firm, turn 
out of the mould, and serve with a puree of 
apricots. 

Dijjlomatic Pudding. — Make a quart of 
custard in the following way : Put the yolks 
of four eggs and the white of one into a bowl, 
and mix Avell with a wooden spoon ; stir in 
half a pint of milk, and strain all into a double 
boiler or a pitcher ; add two ounces of sugar, 
and stand the pitcher (unless you have the 
double boiler) in a saucepan of boiling water, 
and stir the custard over the fire until it thick- 
ens, but it must not boil ; remove from the 
fire ; stir in a tablespoonful of brandy and a 



COLD SWEETS. — CREAMS. 233 

little vanilla. Line a plain mould with half 
a pint of wine jelly ; this is done by pouring 
a Httle in at a time when it is half fluid, roll- 
ino- the mould about on ice, and as soon as 
one coat adheres, pour in more, until the 
mould is evenly coated ; decorate it with half 
an ounce of candied cherries and half an 
ounce of angelica — the cherries split and the 
angelica cut. Melt an ounce of gelatine and 
two ounces of sugar in a gill of water; stir 
it into the custard with a gill of thick cream ; 
stir till cool ; then add an ounce more cher- 
ries, half an ounce of angelica, and half an 
ounce of citron, all chopped small. Pour this 
gently into the mould you have decorated, 
set on ice, turn out and serve. 

Cold Cabinet Pudding. — Ornament the 
bottom of a pint mould with candied cherries 
and angelica ; split half a dozen lady-fingers ; 
line the sides of the mould very evenly with 
them, arranging them alternately back and 
front against the mould ; put in two ounces 
of ratafias (these are tiny macaroons about 



234 CHOICE COOKERY. 

tlie size of a five-cent piece, of high flavor, 
and to be obtained at the pastry-cooks' Avho 
make foreign specialties ; some grocers also 
import them) ; put four yolks of eggs into a 
bowl; stir them; then add half a pint of 
milk ; pour this custard into a double boiler, 
and stir until it thickens, taking care that it 
does not curdle. Melt half an ounce of gela- 
tine in a very little water ; strain it to the 
custard. AVhen the latter cools, add half a 
gill of thick, fresh cream, two ounces of sugar, 
and a teaspoonful of vanilla; mix all well, 
and pour carefully into the mould without 
disturbing the lining of cake. Put the mould 
on ice, and, when set, turn out and serve. 



XXYI. 

CREAMS AND FROZEN PUDDINGS. 

XuT creams, with the exception of almond, 
are not very well known, but are so delicious 
that they ought to be. One reason perliaps 
is that it is not generally known that kernels 
of nuts, such as hazel-nuts, walnuts, hickory- 
nuts, etc., can be bought by the pound at 
confectioners' supply stores. This, of course, 
saves the tedious work of cracking and shell- 
ing. To use with creams or for frozen pud- 
dings the nuts must be pounded very well, 
with very little white of egg — just enough to 
moisten and render the process easy. 

Cocoanut Cream. — Grate a fresh, sweet 
cocoanut (having first peeled, Avashed, and 
wiped it dry) ; mix witli it an ounce of 
sugar; melt in as little water as possible 
three cpiarters of an ounce of gelatine ; whip 



236 CHOICE COOKERY. 

the whites of three eggs, mix them with half 
a pint of milk, and stir over the fire until tlie 
custard thickens ; sweeten with four table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. Stir the gelatine and a 
full half -pint of grated cocoanut Avith the 
cocoanut milk into the custard. Whip half 
a pint of thick cream solid, and stir it very 
carefully into the custard ; when the latter 
is quite cold, but before it sets, flavor with a 
little vanilla or lemon extract. Mould and 
set on ice. 

Hazel-nut Cream. — Pat a pint of hazel-nut 
kernels into a cool oven until they are thor- 
oughly dry and rather hot (they must not 
become too hot, or they will change fla- 
vor) ; then rub them between two coarse 
cloths to get rid of as much as possible of the 
skin (it cannot be entirely removed) ; blow 
away the loose hulls, and pound the nuts to 
a paste with a little white of Qgg. Make a 
custard with the yolks of three eggs and half 
a pint of milk ; dissolve half an ounce of gel- 
atine in a gill of water, mix with six ounces 



CKEAISIS AND FROZEN PUDDINGS. 237 

of powdered sugar, and add to the custard 
when nearly cooL Stir in the hazel-nut paste, 
taking care that it is well mixed with the cus- 
tard, and add a half-pint of cream whipped 
solid ; flavor with vanilla, or you may omit 
flavoring, the hazel-nut being sufficient for 
many people. Mould and set on ice. 

This cream and the two that follow are 
flecked Avith brown, for which reason it may 
be colored brown with caramel, although I pre- 
fer it uncolored, the specks being no more ob- 
jectionable than the vanilla seeds one rejoices 
to see in ice-cream. 

Walmit or Illcl'onj-n ut Cream. — Pound 
one pint of either of these nuts, after rub- 
bing them well in a cloth, make the same 
custard as for hazel-nut cream, stir in the 
walnut or hickory -nut paste till smooth, add 
the whipped cream, color a pale pink with 
cochineal, and flavor faintly Avith rum or 
vanilla. Mould, set on ice, and serve Avitli 
Avhipped cream flavored slightly Avith rum. 

Bohemian Jelly Creams. — These may be 



238 CHOICE COOKERY. 

made of any flavor, according to the jelly 
you use. It may be jelly of fruit or liqueur. 
If fresh fruit is used for jelly, the juice must 
be expressed, and well-sweetened gelatine 
added in the proportion of an ounce to the 
pint. If jam or marmalade is used, a pint 
of water is added and the same amount of 
gelatine, with the juice of half a lemon to the 
pint. Water, jam, and dissolved gelatine 
must be mixed quickly and passed through 
a sieve ; either must be stirred in a bowl set 
in ice till quite cold and beginning to thick- 
en; then stir in gently and quickly three- 
quarters of a pint of cream whipped solid ; 
pour the mixture into the mould, which must 
be set in ice. Cover well, and keep on ice 
till needed. 

Franxjipanni Iced Pudding. — Grate six 
ounces of almond paste to crumbs ; then on 
a smaller grater grate four or six bitter al- 
monds blanched and dried ; pound a dozen 
candies! orange -flower petals with three- 
quarters of a pound of powdei^ed sugar ; put 



CREAMS AND FROZEN TUDDINGS. 239 

all into a stewpan with the yolks of eight 
eggs, and beat them very well together. In 
another stewpan have a pint and a half of 
boiling milk, which must be poured over the 
other ingredients by degrees, keeping them 
well stirred. Place it over the fire, stirring 
until it thickens and adheres to the back of 
the spoon ; rub this all through a coarse 
sieve, add a glass of sherry, and when cold 
pour the mixture into the freezer ; when half 
frozen add a pint and a half of whipped 
cream, and when quite frozen fill a pudding 
mould, bury it in ice and salt, and serve as 
you would N'esselrode pudding. 

Iced Cabinet Pudding. — Cut a stale sponge 
cake into slices half an inch thick and rather 
smaller than the mould you intend to use for 
the pudding ; lay the slices of cake to soak 
in brandy flavored with noyau ; decorate the 
bottom and sides of the mould with candied 
fruits, split cherries, angelica rings, the same 
of green oranges, and little diamonds of gin- 
ger, with a few whole ratafias, dipping them 



240 ciioicp: cookery. 

in. jelly to make tliem adhere ; lay in one 
slice of cake, then cherries and ratafias, an- 
other slice of cake, and so on, until the mould 
is three parts full. Make a quart of custard 
with six yolks of eggs, three tahlespoonfuls 
of sugar, and an ounce of gelatine ; when this 
is cold pour part into the mould, which must 
close hermetically; pack it in salt and ice 
for at least two hours; when you wish to 
turn it out, dip it a minute in lukewarm 
water. Keep the remaining custard on ice, 
flavor it with sherry or rum, beat it up, 
pour it around the pudding, and strew it 
with chopped pistachio-nuts. 

Ice Pudding. — Make a custard with a pint 
and a half of milk, one whole ^gg and the 
yolks of four others, and a quarter of a pound 
of sugar ; when cold, add half a glass of bran- 
dy, a glass of maraschino, an ounce of citron 
cut fine, a quarter of a pound of dried fruits, 
and an ounce of pistachio-nuts, the fruits cut 
up in small pieces, the pistachio-nuts blanched 
and split ; mix well ; and lastly add half a 



CREA3IS AND FROZEN PUDDINGS. 241 

pint of whipped cream. When well frozen, 
pack into a pudding mould, and bury in ice 
and salt till wanted. 

Bomlxiy Ice Pudding. — Line a plain mould 
Avith Eoman-punch ice an inch thick, keeping 
it bedded nearly to the brim in ice and salt 
while you do it ; then fill tlie centre with the 
following mixture : a pint of cocoanut grated 
very fine, mixed with a pint of ice-cream; 
take great care that the cocoanut is ice-cold 
before you mix it in, or it will melt the ice- 
cream. When the mould is fiUed within an 
inch of the top, cover it with lioman punch, 
close the mould hermetically, and bury in 
ice. These puddings, where two kinds of 
ice are used, must only be attempted after 
one has learned to pack plain ice-cream with 
success. 

IcedJeJhj Pudding. — Make a custard with 
a pint of boiling cream, three ounces of sugar, 
and the yolks of four eggs beaten ; pour the 
cream to the eggs very carefully, stirring it 
in by degrees. Have ready a quarter of an 
1(^ 



342 CHOICE COOKERY. 

ounce of gelatine dissolved in very little milk, 
mix it in, and put the vessel containing the 
custard in a stewpan of boiling water, and 
stir till it just thickens ; then whisk it nntil 
nearly cold. Mask a quart mould with jelly 
an inch thick — any favorite red jelly, or a pale 
one tinted. Directions have already been 
given how the inside of a mould is to be 
coated with jelly. There is an easier but 
extravagant way, namely, to fill the mould 
with jelly, then scoop out the centre neatly, 
leaving a shell of jelly an inch thick. The 
centre, of course, might be made hot and bot- 
tled for another occasion, or to make Bo- 
hemian cream jellies. When the mould is 
masked, fill it with the custard, which must 
be half frozen ; then cover securely, and pack 
in ice and salt at least fixe hours before it is 
served. 



XXVII. 

ICED PUDDINGS. 

Filbert and Wine Iced Pudding. — To one 
pint of cream put four tablespoonf uls of sugar 
and two glasses of fine sherry. The cream 
must be perfectly sweet, but should be at 
least twenty-four hours old, and be ice cold. 
Whip this solid ; then freeze. Put a pint of 
filberts in a cool oven till the skins will near- 
ly all rub off ; put them between two coarse 
cloths, and rub as much as possible of the 
brown coating off them ; pound them to a 
paste with a little thick cream, mix four 
ounces of sugar with the nuts, and then 
blend the whole with enough thick custard 
to make a very thick l^atter ; flavor with 
lemon or vanilla, or not, as you choose ; freeze. 
Line a plain mould with the frozen Avine 
cream an inch thick ; then fill in the centre 



244 CHOICE COOKERY. 

with the frozen filberts well pressed in ; cov- 
er tight, and pack in ice and salt for three 
hours, or until wanted. This pudding can 
be made of walnuts and port- wine cream. 

Iced Custard vntli Fruit. — Flavor one pint 
of cream with any liqueur you prefer ; beat 
twelve eggs thoroughly; strain them; boil 
the cream wdth f^\Q ounces of sugar, and 
wdien it is just off the boil pour it, little by 
little, to the eggs ; add a quarter of an ounce 
of gelatine that has been dissolved in very 
little w^ater and strained to the custard ; 
w^hisk until cold ; have ready a mould 
masked with candied fruits. To mask, set 
the mould in a pan of cracked ice, and dip 
each piece of fruit in strong melted jelly ; 
build up from the bottom of the mould hav- 
ing all the fruits, cut about the thickness of 
a split candied cherry and near the size, ar- 
ranged with a view to a good effect when 
the mould shall be turned out. Half freeze 
the custard, and pour it in the mould three 
inches high ; throw in some of the trimmings 



RICE A LA PRINCESSE. 245 

of candied fruit chopped fine. When set, 
add more custard, then more fruit, until the 
mould is full. Let it stand in ice at least 
live hours before it is Avanted. 

Rice a la Prbicesse. — Let some rice swell 
in water until quite tender ; proportion, one 
cup of rice to two (scant) of water ; then but- 
ter a saucepan ; put the rice into it, witli half 
a pint of milk ; let it stew gently till it will 
mash ; the milk must have all been absorbed ; 
sweeten with three tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Mix Avith this a gill of apricot jam, a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla, and half a pint of whipped 
cream ; freeze ; when well frozen, pack in a 
mould and bury in ice and salt. Found a 
dozen macaroons ; stir them into a pint of 
whipped cream ; let the mixture be put on 
ice. When the pudding is turned out of the 
mould, cover with the macaroon cream, and 
decorate the dish with cubes of peach or 
apricot jelly. 

Chocolate Cream Pudding. — Boil a quarter 
of a pound of the finest vanilla chocolate in 



246 CHOICE COOKERY. 

half a pint of milk, whisking it well till it 
boils ; dissolve in it two tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar. Beat three half -pints of 
cream and three tablespoonfuls of sugar solid 
while the chocolate cools ; when it is ice cold 
mix in one half the beaten cream, and freeze. 
Line a plain mould with the frozen chocolate 
(the remainder of the whipped cream should 
have been kept in cracked ice and salt, so as 
to be ice cold) ; fill up the centre of the mould 
with the cream, cover tight, and bury in salt 
and ice. 

Ice-Creams and Ices. — There are so many 
ways of making ice-cream that all one can 
do is to indicate the one or two best, and cer- 
tainly the very best is the simplest, and there 
is no dessert so easy to prepare in hot weath- 
er as this, since there is no work over the fire. 
The only trouble is breaking the ice and turn- 
ing the machine for some twenty minutes, 
which can be done by a child. 

Simplest Fruit Ice- Cream. — Mash two 
pounds of strawberries or raspberries, put 



FRriT ICE-CREAM. 247 

to them half a pound of powdered sugar, and 
let them remain in a cold place two or three 
hours, so that the juice may run ; then strain 
the juice to a quart of thick sweet cream and 
another half pound of sugar, with the juice 
of half a lemon ; stir, and pour cream and 
fruit juice into the freezer, w^hich must be 
packed with ice and rock-salt in about equal 
quantities, the ice being broken quite small. 
Let the cream remain standing in the freezer 
a few minutes before you begin to turn ; then 
freeze, letting off the water, and filling anew 
with ice and salt if necessary. Stir the cream 
down as it forms, and keep on turning five or 
ten minutes after it is actually necessary. 
This extra working insures that extreme 
smoothness characteristic of Italian and 
French ice-cream. If you are not expert in 
freezing, be satisfied not to pack your cream 
in a mould for the first few times. Take out 
the paddle of the freezer, press the ice com- 
pactly down in the freezer, coyer, and see 
that the ice and salt are sufficient and free 



248 CHOICE COOKERY. 

from water. In two hours you can turn the 
ice out of the freezer in a round column or 
loaf that will be quite as sightly as the ob- 
long square one frequently gets from the ca- 
terer. Many people think that simply freez- 
ing the pure cream produces the loose, frothy 
cream found at inferior confectioners', but 
this is not the case ; pure cream frozen re- 
sults in a firm smooth mass which cuts like 
butter. 

I have given the formula for raspberr}^ 
and strawberry cream only, but any fruit 
juice may be substituted, varying the quan- 
tity of sugar as required. 

When it is desirable to freeze the fruit in 
the cream instead of the juice, it must not be 
added until the cream is frozen. Stir in rasp- 
berries, strawberries, chopped pineapple, ba- 
nana, or peaches just before the ice is ready 
to pack down ; otherwise the fruit, being full 
of water, will freeze into hard knots. 

Tutti-frutii Ice- Cream being made from 
chopped candied fruit, this precaution is not 



CUSTARD FOR ICE-CREAM. 249 

necessary ; the fruit may be added at any 
time during the freezing, or stirred in last, as 
you please. 

I have given the simplest and best method 
of making ice-cream, yet the way most in use 
is to add custard ; and French cooks always 
use "meringue paste," claiming that it in- 
sures a smoothness and lightness nothing else 
can give. 

Custard for Ice- Cream. — This is made as 
any other custard, except that double the 
amount of sugar is allowed for everything 
that is to be frozen. It may be made of 
from three to six eggs to a pint of milk, as 
you prefer. This must be ice cold before 
you put it in the freezer. 

Ice-Cream loitJi Eggs.-^OwQ pint of milk, 
three eggs, leaving out one Avhite, half a 
pound of sugar (if acid fruit is to be added, 
it may require more for some tastes). Make 
a custard of these materials, and half freeze 
it ; then add a pint of cream whipped solid. 
Stir in well and finish freezing, turning the 



250 CHOICE COOKERY. 

handle some few minutes after it gets pretty 
stiff, if there is a strong enough hand near 
to do it. 

In making varieties of ice-cream you have 
only to consider the fitness of the articles 
you use ; for instance, any sort of fruit may 
be added, with the exception of lemons. 
Fleshy fruits, such as pineapple, peaches, 
pears, etc., are usually mixed with the cream 
uncooked in this country ; abroad this is only 
done with soft fruits, such as raspberries, 
blackberries, oranges, and such as will mash 
through a colander. Others are very slight- 
ly stewed in rich syrup (as nearly their 
own juice as possible), then pulped and 
mixed through when the cream is nearly 
frozen. 

In winter, fruit jams, and especially jellies, 
are very pleasant in ice-cream ; they always 
require a little lemon juice to restore some of 
the natural sharpness of fresh fruit. A tum- 
bler of red currant jelly turned into a pint of 
ice-cream is delicious, and gives a pretty, faint 



GRILLED ALMOND CREAM. 251 

pink tint. The method is just the same Avheth- 
er for custard and cream or cream alone. 

The meringue paste alhided to as used by 
foreign confectioners is made by beating the 
white of an egg vrith a tablespoonf ul of pow- 
dered sugar until stiff. 

Grilled Almond Ice- Cream. — Make a quart 
of ice-cream ; grill some almonds in the fol- 
lowing way : Blanch four ounces of almonds, 
dry them in a hot spot till they are brittle ; 
then put in a thick saucepan or saute pan 
four ounces of sugar and a gill of water ; let 
them boil five minutes ; throw in the al- 
monds ; stir them till part of the sugar ad- 
heres and they begin to turn yellow. Take 
them up, chop them, and when quite cold stir 
them into the ice-cream, which should be 
flavored with vanilla. 



XXYIII. 

ICE-CREAMS AND AVATER-ICES. 

To those very fond of tea, ice-cream made 
with it is very acceptable, and is very much 
used at English garden parties. 

Tea Ice- Cream. — To one pound of granu- 
lated sugar put a pint of strong green tea, a 
pint and a half of cream, and two quarts of 
rich milk, and a very little cinnamon water. 
Let the whole simmer one minute, not stir- 
ring, but keeping the mixture in motion by 
gently swinging the saucepan. Freeze as 
usual. This recipe may be used for coffee 
and chocolate ; it will make a large quantity, 
and for a medium-sized family one quarter 
will suffice. 

Chinese Ice. — Beat the yolks of fifteen eggs 
with three quarters of a pound of powdered 
sugar; pound four ounces of pistachio-nuts 



WATER-ICES. 253 

(blanched) with the white of an egg ; put to 
it three gills of water ; stir it over the fire in 
a double boiler till it is as thick as cream ; 
take great care that it does not boil. Color 
it green, or part green and ])art yellow ; fla- 
vor as you please ; cut up a couple of candied 
Chinese oranges small and a little preserved 
ginger, and freeze. 

Water-ices. — These are exceedingly sim- 
ple, and no more elegant form of refreshment 
can be offered than a plate of well-frozen or 
a tumbler of half-frozen water-ice. It is ac- 
ce^^table when ice-cream would be too heavy, 
and can be offered at the simplest country 
afternoon tea, or during a call, without the 
seeming ostentation of ice-cream. 

Ginger Water-ice (to serve as a beverage 
if preferred). — Take six ounces of preserved 
ginger, free from fibre ; pound it ; make two 
quarts of lemonade by paring eight or ten 
lemons so thinly that the knife-blade shows 
through the yellow ; put the peel of three 
in a pitcher with a pound and a quarter of 



254 CHOICE COOKERY. 

sugar ; pour two quarts of boiling water on 
them, and cover ; squeeze and strain the juice 
from the lemons, add to the water, and Avhen 
cold stir in the pounded ginger, with the 
meringue paste made with the whites of four 
eggs. "Freeze it. If for drinking, only half 
freeze, work only enough to make it like 
half -melting snow, and use only sugar enough 
to make a refreshing drink. Italians call 
this granito, and it is a form of ice not often 
met with in this country. 

Pinea])ple Water-ice. — This can be readily 
made of canned pineapple when the fresh 
fruit is out of season. Peel a pineapple; 
grate it into a mortar ; then j^ound it well 
with six ounces of sugar ; let it stand cove?fed 
for au hour ; add the juice of five oranges, 
and a pint and a half of syrup boiled to the 
little thread, or a lisse. (This syrup is much 
used in making water-ices, punches, etc. It 
is sugar and water boiled till it forms a little 
thread between thumb and finger.) Mix 
well and freeze. If canned fruit is used, you 



WATER-ICES. 255 

need less sugar, and substitute lemon for half 
the orange juice. 

Almond Water-ice. — Take one pound of 
almond paste, a pint and a half of water, and 
three quarters of a pound of sugar ; grate the 
paste ; then stir till quite dissolved. Flavor 
with vanilla or raspberry ; stir in the whites 
of two eggs and some candied fruits cut up 
small. Freeze as usual. 

Cinnamon Water-ice. — This is a German 
ice, and very much liked by those who are 
fond of the flavor. Pound an ounce of the 
finest quality of cinnamon in the stick, put 
it into a pint and a half of boiling water, 
and cover it well ; when it is cold add a 
quart of syrup (the little thread) and the 
v/ell-beaten whites of two eggs, and freeze it. 

Pistachio Water-ice. — Blanch and pound a 
pound of pistachio-nuts, using the white of 
an Qgg to moisten ; mix witli a quart of syrup 
a lisse. Heighten the color, if too pale, a\ ith 
spinach coloring, and flavor to taste. (Pista- 
chio-nuts have no flavor of their own, aston- 



256 CHOICE COOKERY. 

isliing as the fact may seem to those who 
have heard frequently of pistachio flavor.) 
Freeze as usuaL 

Apricot Water-ice. — There is no more deh- 
cious water-ice than this if fine-flavored apri- 
cots are used. The canned ones are excellent 
for the purpose. Pulp two pounds of apri- 
cots through a sieve or jelly press ; grate or 
pound ver}^ fine five or six bitter almonds ; 
mix with the j)ulp the juice of the apricots 
(from the can), and a pint and a half of syrup, 
and the beaten whites of three eggs made 
into a paste with three tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar ; stir all well, and freeze. This 
ice ought to be the color of apricots ; if too 
pale, add a very little saffron coloring. 

Currant Water-ice. — A pint of currant 
juice, a pint of syrup, and the whites of three 
eggs made into meringue paste. Freeze as 
usual. Any of these water-ices can be half 
frozen as graniti, and served in glasses as 
granito, the only exceptions being the almond 
and pistachio w^ater-ices. 



GRANITI. 257 

Granitl are also made of various kinds 
of light punches by adding to a quart of the 
usual punch recipe a quart of sweetened 
water. Any summer beverage made from 
fruit juice can be turned into a gnuiito, 
by half freezing, in either of the following- 
ways : 

To Freeze Granitl. — Mix the beverage you 
intend to freeze, for instance, we will say, a 
pint of very strong, clear, bright coffee and 
half a pint of syrup a lisse. Put them into 
the freezer and turn; as it becomes frozen 
up the sides, scrape it down with a spoon, 
and remember, as soon as it resembles snowy 
water (not white, of course) it is frozen 
enough. It must be just hquid enough to 
pour out. 

There is a second way of freezing graniti 
by which they can be put on the table in the 
vessel in which they were frozen. Place the 
mixture in wide-mouthed water-bottles, twirl 
them round in ice and salt, and, as the con- 
tents become frozen on the inside of the bot- 
17 



258 CHOICE COOKERY. 

tie, scrape down with a narrow wooden stick 
or spatula. When frozen in perfection the 
bottle shoukl S3em half filled with tiny 
crystals. 

Claret Granito. — To one pint of orangeade 
add a bottle of claret. Half freeze. 

Sherry Granito. — To one quart of lemon- 
ade add a bottle of sherry, and freeze. 

The housekeeper who lives far from a large 
city will need materials for many of the reci- 
pes given in these papers and others which 
she will meet with in books on high-class 
cooking. Many of these can be sent for by 
mail, and all, of course, by express ; but it 
will often not seem worth while to send per- 
haps for one small bottle that we may lack. 
For this reason I give a few directions for 
preparing very tolerable imitations of liq- 
ueurs, which, however, unless it were a ques- 
tion of economy, it might not be worth while 
doing if within reach of stores. 

Curaqoa, — Pare a dozen and a half of dead- 
ripe oranges so thin that you can see the 



LIQUEURS. 259 

knife pass under the rind ; pound one dram 
of finest cinnamon and half a dram of mace ; 
put them to steep for fifteen days in a gallon 
of pure alcohol, shaking it every day. Make 
a clarified syrup of four pounds of sugar and 
one quart of water well boiled and skimmed ; 
add this to the curagoa. Kub up in a mortar 
one dram of potash with a teaspoonful of 
the liqueur; when well mixed add it, and 
then do the same with a dram of alum. Shake 
well, and in an hour or two filter through 
thin muslin. It will be ready for use in a 
a week. 

Maraschino. — Bruise two ounces of cherry 
kernels and one of bitter almonds ; put them 
in a deep jar with the thin outer rind of 
twelve oranges and five lemons. Steep in 
one gallon of English gin or alcohol. Let 
the whole stand a fortnight, then filter and 
bottle. 

Ratafia. — Blanch the kernels of uncooked 
peaches or apricots, and when you have two 
ounces pound them, and pour to them a quart 



260 CHOICE COOKERY. 

of gill or alcohol and the thin yellow rind of 
two lemons. Sweeten with a ])Ound of white 
sugar-candy, and leave the whole for two 
months ; then filter and bottle for use. 

Candled Orange and Lemon Peels. — These 
are invaluable both as decoration for certain 
desserts and for culinary purposes, and as 
they are not alwa3^s to be found except in 
the larger cities, the method of preparing 
them is here given : Throw the ^^eels into 
salt and water, all pulp being removed, but 
the w^hite part must be left untouched ; in 
fact, the thicker the peel the better for the 
purpose, thin-skinned oranges being of no use 
for candying. Let them remain in the salt 
and water from nine days to three weeks ; 
then wash them, put them on the fire in cold 
water, and let them boil till perfectly tender, 
yet they must not be mushy. During the 
time they are boiling change the water until 
it no longer tastes salt. Lemon-peels may 
take from three to four hours' boiling, orange- 
peels less ; but remember, should the lemon- 



CANDIED ORANGE AND LEMON PEELS. 2G1 

peel not be quite tender, it will harden when 
it goes into syrup, and instead of a rich 
svv^eetmeat there will be only woody chips. 
Drain the peels, and make a thin syrup of a 
pint of water to each pound of sugar. Let 
it boil five minutes ; then throw in the peels ; 
they must boil gently in this until they are 
clear and the syrup has become thick — 
almost boiled away, in fact. iS^ow make 
another syrup, half a pint of Avater to two 
pounds of sugar ; let it boil till clear and till 
there is a short hair from the fork, Xow 
put in the peels (which must have been 
drained from the other syrup) ; remove from 
the fire ; stir them round till the syrup looks 
Avhitish ; then lift each piece out and lay it 
on a dish on which granulated sugar has 
been freely sprinkled. 

Both orange and lemon peels are candied 
by the same process, but they must never be 
put in the same vessel of salt and water, nor 
must they be candied together, or the dis- 
tinctive flavors would be lost. 



XXIX. 

MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 

Under this head I intend to give a few 
sweets that seem to me unusually good, al- 
though they may not always be novel, ex- 
cept in manner of serving. A compote of 
fruit has nothing new about it, yet by the 
way in which it is served it may simply be 
" stewed fruit," or it may be a dish fit to 
find a place even in choice cookery. 

In making compotes great care must be 
taken to preserve the shape and color of the 
fruits. In order to do this they must be 
quickly peeled and dipped into strong lemon 
juice and water, and dropped into syrup in 
which also a little lemon juice has been 
squeezed. Pass the blade of the knife over 
its own marks to obliterate the appearance 
of peeling. Peaches and apricots may be 



MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 263 

boiled up without peeling, and (unless they 
are allowed to get too soft) the skins will be 
removed easily. It will be observed that 
hard fruits such as apples are simmered in 
thin syrup to get tender, while rich soft 
fruits are dropped into syrup boiled to candy 
height. 

Apple Compote Xo. 1. — Cut up and boil 
half a dozen apples in a pint of w^ater. When 
they are quite soft strain the juice from them 
without squeezing ; put to it half a pound of 
granulated sugar and the zest of a lemon 
(the zest is the peel so thin that the knife 
blade can be seen through it while paring), 
together with the juice. Let this syrup boil 
for a minute; skim it. Then pare half a 
dozen fine cooking apples ; core them ; let 
them boil gently in the syrup until quite 
tender, but not in danger of breaking. Take 
them up on a perforated skimmer. When 
cold, put the apples into a compote dish. 
Boil the juice to a jelly ; pour part of it over 
the apples ; dip a plate in cold water, drain 



264 CHOICE COOKERY. 

it, and then pour out the rest of the jelly into 
it : it should only cover it about the thick- 
ness of thick paper. When stiff, warm the 
under-side of the plate very slightly^ pass a 
broad thin knife under, and lay the sheet oi 
jelly over the apples in the compote dish. 

Apple Compote Ko. 2. — Prepare the apples 
as in last recipe, but before the last sheet oi 
jelly is laid over them ornament Avitli rings 
and leaves of angelica, and any red jelly or 
preserve cut in thin slices and stamped out 
with tiu}^ tin cutters in leaves, stars, or fancy 
shapes (stiff red currant jelly or red quince 
may be used) ; decorate thus each apple ; 
then lay the thin sheet of apple jelly over all. 

Compote of Stuffed Apjjles. — Prepare the 
apples as in the foregoing recipes, taking 
care to core them all through Avithout split- 
ting the apple. When the apples are done, 
fill the centre with orange marmalade or 
apricot preserve. Boil the syrup down till 
it Avill glaze ; pour it over the apples when 
they are ice-cold, the syrup also only warm 



MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 265 

enough to remain liquid. By this means 
the rich coating will remain over the apples, 
while if both w^ere warm it would run off. 

Compote of Apples or Pears Grille. — If you 
have any apples or pears left from a compote 
(or you may, of course, prepare them especial- 
ly), put them into a frying or saute pan over 
a brisk fire ; put with them any syrup there 
may be and a cup of sugar just dissolved in 
water ; boil rapidly down to a pale caramel, 
rolling the apples Avith a fork so that they 
become covered with the caramel. Take 
great care that the syrup does not burn ; re- 
move it from the fire the moment it begins 
to change color. The apples should now have 
an even glossy surface ; as each is finished 
])ut it at once into the compotier. Pour a lit- 
tle cura^oa syrup round just before sending 
to table. 

Compote of Apple Marmalade. — This is 
not so troublesome to make as it sounds, es- 
pecially to any one who has made glace nuts 
— a very general accomplishment nowadavs. 



266 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Heduce some apple marmalade by leaving it 
for an hour or two in a double boiler; the 
water boiling round it will evaporate moist- 
ure without danger of burning. Stir occa- 
sionally, and when the marmalade is so re- 
duced that it will make a firm paste when 
cold (try a little in a saucer on ice), color one 
half pink with cochineal. Spread half an inch 
thick on plates slightly oiled ; when stiff and 
cold, cut out the marmalade into squares, 
ovals, diamonds, leaves, etc., with tin cutters. 
Boil a pou-nd of sugar with a gill of water to 
the crack — that is, untilateaspoonful dropped 
in ice- water will crack between the teeth. 
Oil a fork and a large dish, and use the fork 
to drop the pieces of marmalade into the 
candy ; lift them out quickly, and lay them 
on the dish, which will be better if it is set 
on ice. When they are cold, dish them in a 
pyramid, the pink to contrast with the white 
effectively. Pour a little liqueur-flavored 
syrup round the base of the fruit. 

Comjpote of Pears {white). — Use any fine- 



MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 267 

flavored dessert pears. Cut them in halves, 
core, pare, and trim neatly, and simmer them 
in syrup (a pound of sugar and juice of half 
a lemon to a pint of water) till they are ten- 
der, yet firm to the touch. Dish the pieces, 
keeping them close to each other. Lay a 
thin sheet of apple jelly over them, and the 
syrup, boiled down till rich and thick, round 
them. 

A Pink Compote is prepared in the same 
way, the only difference being that a very 
few drops of cochineal are added to tlie 
syrup before the pears go in. Decorate with 
angelica. 

Pears a la Princesse. Select seven pears 
of the best quality, w^ithout blemish, and of 
equal size ; pare them with great care ; stand 
them close together in a saucepan, with weak 
acidulated syrup to cover them ; simmer 
slowly till quite tender, but yet firm to the 
touch ; take them up, leaving the syrup to 
l)oil down. When cold, cut the stalk end 
off each pear about an inch deep, or so as 



268 CHOICE COOKERY. 

to leave about an inch of surface, on which 
pkice a ring of angehca (simply cut angelica 
crosswise and it forms rings, being tubular) ; 
if the rings are flattened, lay them in syrup ; 
when softened bend them round and lay one 
on each pear ; then, if in season, dip a fine 
strawberry or stoned red cherry in the hot 
syrup and lay it on the ring of angelica. Cut 
strips of angelica and run them through the 
strawberry down to the pear, both to hold 
the decoration in place and to represent the 
stalk ; dish them standing ; when dished up, 
pour some syrup, boiled till thick and rich, 
over the seven pears. AYhen fresh fruit is not 
in season for decoration, use candied cherries. 
Variegated Cowi^ote of Pears. — This is a 
pretty dish. Prepare some pears as in the 
last recipe, except that the tops are not to be 
cut off ; color half the number a pale pink by 
adding a few drops of cochineal to the syrup 
in which they are simmered ; dress them al- 
ternately, a pink pear and a white one, in 
the compotier ; ])our over each the pink and 



MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 269 

white syrup in which they were cooked, and 
pour syrup flavored with vanilla round them. 

Compote of. Oranges. — Divide six oranges 
in halves ; first cut out the centre string of 
pith, pick all pips out carefully, and with a 
very sharp knife pare off the peel of the 
orange down to the naked transparent pulp ; 
in this Avay you get rid of the whole of the 
white outside skin. Place the halves as you 
do them in a boAvl ; pour over them some 
hot syrup boiled a lisse^ flavored with orange 
peel, rubbed with lump sugar, and previously 
dissolved in the syrup ; a very little lemon 
juice should be added if the oranges are very 
sweet. Let them steep a few minutes ; then 
remove them ; then build the oranges into a 
pyramid on the compotier, and the last thing 
before going to table pour the syrup, well 
boiled and cold, over them. 

Chestnut Compote. — Take the largest 
French or Spanish chestnuts, make slits in 
the peel, and boil till tender ; take off the 
shell, and press them flat without breaking ; 



270 CHOICE COOKERY. 

lay them in a saucepan ; pour over them 
thick syrup; put them in the oven, but do 
not let them boil; when they look quite 
clear take them up, put them into the com- 
potier, boil the syrup to candy height, squeeze 
into the compotier the juice of an orange, 
and pour the candy over the chestnuts. 

Chestnut Compote JN'o. 2. — Prepare the nuts 
as in last recipe ; put the yolks of three eggs 
in a saucepan ; stir gradually to them a pint 
of cream ; cook a quarter of a pound of sugar 
to the crack, with a few dried orange flowers ; 
the minute the candy begins to get yellowish 
pour it into the cream, stirring constantly, 
and let it come to boiling-point ; then strain 
the cream over the chestnuts. 



XXX. 

MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS.— Continued. 

Ste AW BERRIES, paspberries, currants, etc., 
need A^ery little cooking, and that little in 
high candy. If it is understood that strong 
S3^rup tends to make fruit firm, and weak 
syrup to make it tender, it will be seen why 
all soft fruit, in order to keep its shape, 
should be dropped into candy boiled till brit- 
tle, and why apples and other hard fruits 
should be first stewed in weak syrup until 
soft ; yet there are degrees ; for instance, 
hard peaches require thin syrup, and very 
luscious ones must be put into syrup that is 
very near candy. This is also the case with 
pears. Be guided as to the strength of the 
syrup by the kind of fruit. Avoid fruit that 
is very ripe, because the syrup from it will 
not jelly readily. 



272 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Compote of Strawberries. — Select a quart 
of fine large berries, rather under than over 
ripe ; boil three quarters of a pound of sugar 
to the crack ; drop the straw berries into the 
syrup after it is removed from the fire ; re- 
turn them to the range ; let them boil gen- 
tly once ; take out the berries most carefully 
with the skimmer ; lay them on the compo- 
tier; boil the syrup fast, skimming it care- 
fully ; then pour it over the fruit. 

Comjpote of Cherries is made in the same 
way, with the finest red cherries, only they 
require to boil up several times. When 
clear, drain them with the skimmer; lay 
them in the compote dishes; add a gill of 
red currant juice to the syrup; boil it till 
it is a weak jelly ; then throw it over the 
cherries when nearly cold. 

Orange Bashets Filled vntli Fruits. — Select 
seven oranges, not too large, but all the same 
size. "With a very sharp knife pare the fruit 
as thin as possible — so thin that it still re- 
mains yellow, and only the shining outer 



MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 273 

surface is removed (in fact, it may be lightly 
grated off, but that is more trouble), to ren- 
der them transparent ; cut two quarters out 
of the upper part of the orange, so as to 
leave a narrow band half an inch wide, which 
will form the handle ; pass the knife care- 
fully round inside the band, so as to remove 
the strip of pulp. With the bowl of a tea- 
spoon detach the remaining pulp from the 
inside without in any way damaging the 
shape of the basket. As you prepare them, 
drop them in a saucepan of cold water, and 
then put them into boiling water, and sim- 
mer three minutes gently. This is only to 
soften the peel and enable you to stamp out 
the edges with a perforating cutter, if you 
have one, which will give them an open- 
work effect ; if not, just scallop them Avith 
scissors, and snip out a sort of trellis-work to 
increase the basket effect. Put them into a 
preserving- kettle with weak syrup a lisse, 
boil them gently till they look clear, then 
put them aside in the syrup till next day ; 
18 



274 CHOICE COOKERV. 

boil the syrup twice alone at intervals of 
several hours, and throw it over the baskets. 
These baskets may be kept ready prepared 
for months by putting them in wide jars 
and covering them with syrup. "When re- 
quired for use, they must be taken out, 
drained thoroughly, and then filled with a 
variety of small fruits, such as cherries, straw- 
berries, currants, etc., which have been mixed 
with a little apple or orange jelly. In win- 
ter, ambrosia — a mixture of cut-up banana, 
grated cocoa-nut, orange quarters, etc. — may 
be served in them, or a mixture of preserved 
fruits that are firm, such as Chinese oranges, 
limes, ginger, etc. In all cases serve them 
on a compote dish, and throw over them 
syrup flavored with maraschino. 

Lemon Baskets are prepared precisely as 
the orange baskets, but they require longer 
boiling, and the syrup they are served with 
should be flavored with citronelle or the 
rasped peel of green limes. 

Orange Baskets Glace. — These are not 



MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 275 

much more trouble than the baskets simply 
preserved, but if successfully done they can 
be very effectively filled with candies or ice- 
cream. Prepare the baskets as in last recipe, 
drain them on a napkin, very carefully re- 
move all moisture from the inside, and set 
them over a register, or in an oven with the 
door open, to dry. Boil two pounds of sugar 
with a pint of water and two tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar till it begins to change color (this 
is some little time after the brittle stage is 
reached, and is called caramel) ; lightly oil 
the skimmer, and drop a basket in the candy ; 
remove as quickly as possible, but see that 
the whole is well coated, yet has as little 
superfluous candy as possible, for which rea- 
son the baskets must be warm when they 
are dipped, also the skimmer. You must 
not leave the candy on the fire after it her/ ins 
to change color, but the work of coating the 
baskets had better be done quite near the 
fire, with the pot containing the candy on 
some part of it where it will be kept hot, 



276 CHOICE COOKERY. 

but not cook. They must be slij>ped on to 
an oiled dish, and, needless to say, most care- 
fully handled. 

Other baskets are made with nougat, oth- 
ers Avith pastry, and the Swiss make what 
they call Yaeherin with almond paste, and 
serve whipped cream in them ; but the idea 
may be extended and improved upon by 
serving dried fruits or candies, or ice-cream 
in them, and they are a decided improve- 
ment on the paper baskets so often used for 
the last purpose, being eatable. 

Swiss Yaeherin. — Take half a pound of 
almond paste, three quarters of a pound of 
confectioners' sugar, and the white of one 
e^g. Shave the almond paste, stir the egg 
and sugar together, and flavor with a little 
orange-flower water or wine; Avork all to- 
gether with the hand into a smooth, stiff 
paste that will roll out ; if there is a disposi- 
tion to crack or crumble, use more white of 
egg and almond paste. Koll it just as a^ou 
would pie crust on the pastry board, using 



MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 277 

confectioners' sugar in place of flour. Line 
small cups or tartlet moulds, or anything 
that will make a good form for baskets, 
Avhicli have been very slightly oiled. Put 
them aside to harden and dry. Chop a 
tablespoonful of blanched pistachio-nuts till 
they are as fine as corn-meal, mix with an 
equal quantity of granulated sugar. Trim 
the edges of the cups or baskets with scis- 
sors, turn thorn out of the moulds, very care- 
fully dip the edges in a saucer containing 
white of egg beaten to liquid — the edges 
only need to be just Avet. Have the chopped 
pistachio-nuts and sugar also in a saucer, dip 
the wet edge of the cup lightly into it, and 
shake gently. If properly done, the cu])s 
will now have a pretty green border. When 
these are filled with whipped cream, sweet- 
ened, flavored, and colored, they are called 
Swiss Vach^in. Filled with plain whipped 
cream, and the top covered with straAvber- 
ries, they are called '' Chantilly cups,'' but 
thev mav be used in manv decorative Avavs, 



278 CHOICE COOKERY. 

to hold preserves or candied fruits, etc., 
etc. 

Little China Dishes. — This quaint recipe 
is from the immortal Mrs. Glasse, and on 
trial was found so unique and agreeable a 
variety to our modern fancies that with some 
little changes to suit our present ideas I give 
the last -century dainty. If you have any 
pretty-shaped little tin dishes, without flut- 
ing, to mould and bake them in, they are 
very little trouble to make. Take the yolks 
of two eggs, two small tablespoonfuls of 
sherry, and one of rose-water, beat together 
only enough to mix, then use as much fine 
flour as will make a firm paste that can be 
rolled out exceedingly thin. Cover some 
nicely shaped little tins slightly buttered, 
press to the form, be careful the paste fits 
without creases, and bake in a cool oven. 
AYhen the paste is crisp, Avith very little 
change of color, they are done. Do not 
touch them till they are cold, as they may 
be brittle. Stir the white of an egg with a 



MISCELLAXEOUS SWEETS. 279 

tablespoonful of rose-water and confection- 
ers' sugar enough to make a smooth icing ; 
squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and 
when the little dishes are cold, ice the under 
side only just thick enough to mask the 
pastry ; Avhen they are dry and hard, turn 
them over and ice the inside ; do this with 
great smoothness, to look as much like por- 
celain as possible. If you choose, when the 
icing is quite hard, you can wet the edge of 
the dishes with wdiite of egg and dip them 
in chopj)ed pistachio-nuts and sugar, like the 
Chantilh' baskets, or in nonpareils (the small- 
est size). They may be used to serve any- 
thing sweet, from jelly to candies. 

Almond Trifies. — "With the almond paste 
used for Chantilly cups many trifles may 
be made with very little trouble ; for in- 
stance, mix a tablespoonful of flour with 
the paste ; roll it out ; cut into circles ; pinch 
up two sides ; ])lace a little handle over the 
centre, and in each open end, which must be 
bent slightly upward, place a candied cherr}^ 



280 CHOICE COOKEHV. 

Or cut a number of thin strips of paste, stick 
them together in the middle with white of 
egg, pass a strip of ahnond paste round so 
that the strips look like fagots of sticks, let 
them just color in the oven, sift sugar over 
them, and put them awa}". The paste may 
be rolled as thick as a pipe-stem and tied in 
knots, the surface just moistened, and sugar 
sifted over them; these also must only just 
take color in the oven. These are only sug- 
gestions for using up the trimmings from 
the cups. 



XXXI. 

MISCELLAXEOUS SWEETS.— Conti7ined. 

Raspberry Charlotte Basse. — The simplest 
and quite the most effective way of making 
charlottes of any kind is tlie following : Take 
a strip of light cartridge or drawing paper 
from two to three inches wide, measure it 
round a mould the size you wish the char- 
lotte to be, and cut it an inch larger; piece 
the two ends together, lapping an inch. 
Lay this paper circle on an ornamental dish 
(the one you wish to use), split lady-fingers, 
and stand them around it inside like a picket- 
fence, only as close together as they will go, 
inserting a pin from the outside through 
the paper and each cake as you do it. AVhen 
you have lined the paper completely you Aviil 
liave a close frame of lady -fingers held in 
place by pins. Whip a pint of perfectly sweet 



282 CHOICE COOKERY. 

cream that is at least twenty-four hours old 
and has been thoroughly chilled on ice. 
Sweeten the cream with two tablespoonfuls 
of powdered sugar, and flavor it with a table- 
spoonful of rusi^hervy juice (not syrup) mixed 
with a tablespoonful of powdered sugar; 
sometimes the raspberry juice will color the 
cream a beautiful faint pink, which cannot 
be improved upon, but if it is not bright 
enough in tint stir in one or two drops of 
cochineal. If the weather is warm stand 
the vessel containing the cream in ice ; then 
beat without stopping to skim the froth as 
it rises. In about ten to fifteen minutes the 
cream ought to be perfectly solid if all the 
conditions were observed, and the beating 
carried on in a cool, airy room. If, how- 
ever, the cream is not solid enough to keep 
shape, set it on ice for an hour and beat 
affain. Fill the centre of the frame of lady- 
fingers, piling it high ; decorate either with 
chopped pistachio-nuts lightly sprinkled, or 
with rings of angelica. The r3iSY>berry juice 



MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 283 

used for flavoring is to be obtained at first- 
class druggists', where the best quality of 
soda-water is sold. It is unsweetened, and 
although I have kept it two or three months 
in cool weather, it often will not keep many 
weeks ; it is therefore better to buy it by the 
giU or half-pint, if your druggist will sell it 
so, than to buy a large bottle, although it is 
so useful for making raspberry jelly, rasp- 
berry shrub, and many other things, that 
even a bottle is not likely to be wasted. It 
must not be confused with raspberry synij?, 
which is heavily sweetened, but not nearly 
so frao-rant. Before servino- the charlotte 
remove the pins and take the paper off. 

Charlotte Biisse loith Gelatine. — Prepare a 
frame as in last recipe, also beat a pint of 
cream sweetened and flavored with wine or 
to taste ; melt in a pint of milk half an ounce 
of gelatine. The French gelatine is very 
pure, easy to melt, and no more expensive 
than any other good kind, and for delicate 
uses preferable to them. Make the gela- 



2g4 CHOICE COOKERY. 

tine and milk into' a custard with two eggs, 
sweeten witli two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
flavor to taste, and put to get cold, stirring 
it once in a while ; when it begins to thicken 
round the sides of the vessel heat with the 
egg-beater till foamy. You have now a ves- 
sel of whipped custard and one of whipped 
cream, both cold ; now mix the cream into 
the custard, a little at a time, giving the 
spoon a light upward movement ; do not stir 
it; that deadens the cream; your object is 
to keep it light ; when all is mixed, fill the 
frame of cake with the spongy mixture ; dec- 
orate it either with drops and pipings of the 
mixture applied to the smooth surface, or 
\vith candied fruits cut into forms or various 
colored jellies. 

Of course a charlotte russe can be varied 
in many ways. It may be filled with the 
custard made with chocolate, and so be brown 
charlotte, or the filling may have apricot or 
currant jelly whipped into it with the gela- 
tine ; this is an admirable change. 



MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 285 

Almond Turha7i.—^Mve half a pound of 
tine putf-paste, give it nine turns, roll it the 
last time to the thickness of a dollar ; have 
ready half a pound of almonds, blanched 
and chopped ; put them in a bowl with half 
a pound of powdered sugar and the whites 
of two eggs, adding a very little more if the 
icing is too stiff to spread; spread the al- 
mond icing on the pastry as thick as a twen- 
tj^-five-cent piece ; with a sharp knife cut the 
pastry into strips two and a half inches long 
and one in breadth ; bake these in a mod- 
erate oven a very pale brown ; make a cir- 
cle on a dish of some Jirm marmalade or 
jam ; when the almond cakes are cold, dress 
them in a crown on the jam, which serves to 
keep them in place ; fill the centre of the 
turban with vanilla ice - cream or simple 
whipped cream. 

I^uie Small Cakes for Dessert. — It may not 
be worth the while of a busy housekeeper 
within reach of a first-class confectioner's to 
make these, because, although when of fine 



286 CHOICE COOKERY. 

quality they are always expensive, yet they 
are also tedious to make. Many, however, 
live in country towns, where there is no pos- 
sibility of obtaining anything better than tlie 
sandy products of the country baker\^ 

A few really fine cakes can be made at a 
time, and kept in an air-tight box, with lay- 
ers of paper between, for some time. In 
speaking, however, of the tediousness I would 
not discourage the reader, for there are few 
more tedious things in cooking than the roll- 
ing out, making, and baking of thin cookies 
or ginger-snaps, and the result attained so 
inadequate. 

Jxout Biscuits. — Boil a pound of sugar in 
half a pint of milk ; grate into it the rind of 
a lemon when cold ; rub half a pound of but- 
ter into a pound and a half of flour and a 
])ound of almond paste grated fine ; put as 
much carbonate of soda as would lie on a 
silver dime into the milk, and mix with the 
flour and almond paste ; beat two eggs, and 
make the whole into a firm, smooth paste ; 



MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 287 

print this paste with very small butter moulds 
if YOU have them, making little cakes just 
like the tiny pats of butter one gets at city 
restaurants. Bake on a well-buttered pan in 
a quick oven a very pale yellow. 

Macaroons. — These must be exempted from 
the charo:e of beino^ tedious, thev are so easilv 
and quickly made. One pound of almond 
paste grated, one pound and a half of sugar, 
and the whites of seven eggs. Some confec- 
tioners use a teaspoonful of flour, with the 
idea that the macaroons are not so apt to 
falL I recommend a trial of both methods ; 
they will both be good. Stir the sugar and 
the beaten white of eggs together just enough 
to mix, then by degrees add the grated paste, 
mashing with the back of a fork till it forms 
a perfectly smootli paste. Oil several sheets 
of paper cut to the size of your baking-pans. 
Dri]iping-pans may be used if you have no 
regular baking-sheets. Lay a sheet of paper 
at the bottom of the pan. Put half a tea- 
spoonful of the macaroon paste on a scrap of 



288 CHOICE COOKERY. 

buttered paper in the oven. If it spreads 
too much it requires a very little more sugar; 
if it does not spread at all, or so little as to 
leave the surface rough, it is too stitf, and 
requires perhaps half tliQ white of an Qgg, or 
the finger dipped in water and laid on each 
macaroon after they are on the paper is often 
sufficient — a little practice is all that is nec- 
essary. Lay the paste in half-teaspoonfuls 
on the oiled or greased paper. If the trial 
one indicated that they were slightly too 
stiff, lay a wet finger on each, sift powdered 
sugar over, and then put a pinch of chopped 
and blanched almonds in the centre with just 
enough j)ressure to keep them in place. As 
the macaroon spreads in the oven the al- 
monds scatter themselves. 

Macaroons should be baked about tAventy 
minutes in a moderate oven. They must be 
taken out while they are a very pale brown, 
but they must also be quite '' set," or they 
Avill fall. If the oven is too quick they will 
brown too soon ; in that case leave the oven 



MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 039 

door .open, taking care that no cold draught 
can blo\y on the macaroons. You can tell 
if they have browned too quickly by the 
cracks in them being still white and sticky. 
When done both the cracks and surface 
should be the same pale color. The maca- 
roons must be left five minutes in the pan 
after leaving the oven without being touched. 
At the end of that time they may be gently 
taken off the pans on the jxqyers^ from w^hich 
they must not be detached until they are 
quite cold. Should they stick to the paper, 
moisten the back of it. 

Fine Ginger Dessert Cakes. — Rub half a 
pound of fresh butter into three quarters of 
a pound of flour ; beat three eggs with three 
quarters of a pound of powdered sugar and 
half a glass of rosewater, the grated peel of 
a lemon, and a teaspoonful of the best pow- 
dered ginger — use the ginger carefully, try- 
ing a level spoonful first. Then mix all into 
a paste. If the flavor of ginger is not strong 
enough, add more ; they should taste well of 
10 



290 CHOICE COOKER V. 

it, without being hot in the mouth. Roll 
the ])aste a quarter of an inch thick, and cut 
into small oval or round cakes, sift powdered 
sugar over them, and bake rather slowly a 
very pale brown. 



XXXII. 

FIXE CAKES AND SAUCES. 

Madeleines. — Four ounces of butter, four 
ounces of the best flour, three ounces of 
sugar, a teaspoonful of orange-flower water, 
the yolks of four eggs, and rind of a lemon. 
Beat butter, sugar, and yolks of eggs to- 
gether, then add the other ingredients ; grate 
in the rind of half a lemon, and add the well- 
beaten Avhites of eggs last of all. Fill little 
moulds that haye been buttered with washed 
butter, coyer the tops Ayith split almonds and 
sifted sugar ; bake from thirty to forty min- 
utes in a moderate oyen. These cakes are 
sometimes served hot with apricot sauce. 

Chestnut Croquettes. — Boil flfty sound chest- 
nuts ; take them out of the shells ; reject ah 
imperfect ones ; keep the large pieces aside ; 
pound tlie crumbs and most broken pieces 



292 CHOICE COOKERY. 

with an ounce of butter till very smooth ; 
then mix in a small cup of cream two ounces 
of butter and one ounce of powdered sugar ; 
put the whole into a double boiler, and stir 
in the beaten yolks of six eggs. Let the 
mixture set. When cool, make it into balls ; 
in the centre of each ball put a piece of the 
chestnut you have laid aside, dip the balls in 
fine cracker meal and eggs, and fry a very 
pale yellow. Serve with sifted sugar. 

Yery pretty cakes, very easily made, Avhich 
come under the French term, pet its fours, may 
be given here. 

Fetits Fours. — Make rich cake mixture 
thus : Wash three quarters of a pound of 
butter to free it from excess of salt ; squeeze 
it dry in a cloth ;" beat it with the hand till 
creamy ; add three quarters of a pound of 
powdered sugar ; beat till light ; then beat 
in ten eggs, one by one, and sift in a pound 
of dried and sifted flour. When all are well 
beaten together, the paste or batter is ready 
for use. Line some shallow pans (those used 



FIXE CAKES AND SAUCES. 293 

for making rolled jell3"-cake are best) with 
buttered paper ; spread a layer of the mixt- 
ure just as you would for jelly-cake, but much 
thicker, as when baked the sheets should not 
be more than the third of an inch thick. 
Bake slowly. When done, remove from the 
oven, but leave the cake undisturbed till cold. 
If the sheets are large, they may be cut ex- 
actly in half, spread thinly with some stiff 
marmalade or jelly ; quince or apricot is best, 
but any rich flavor with some tartness will 
do; lay one half on the other, and press 
closely and very neatly together. Do each 
sheet of cake in the same way, varying the 
marmalade if you choose. Have ready a 
bowl of icing (either boiled French icing or 
what is called royal icing). Dust the top of 
the cakes with flour, which must be brushed 
off again, as it is only to absorb the grease. 
Flavor the icing with vanilla, and lay it on 
the centre of the cake ; let it run over it, aid- 
ing with a knife dipped in water (shaking 
off the drops, however). The icing needs to 



294 CHOICE COOKEKV. 

be very neatly done, and must not be thicker 
than a twenty-five-cent piece. Now color 
the icing in the bowl pink, with a little cochi- 
neal, add a drop or two of extract of bitter 
almond or of lemon, either of which will 
agree with the vanilla that was in the white 
icing; then ice another sheet of cake in the 
same way ; a third may be done with choco- 
late icing. 

The beauty of these cakes will depend on 
the way they are cut. You may choose to 
make them tablets an inch wide and three 
inches long, or in lozenge shape — the true 
diamond — but in either case the cutting must 
be exact. The best way to have it so is to 
mark the lines very lightly with the point 
of a penknife on the icing, using a measure. 
Trim off the edge of the cake with a sharp 
knife, so that it is neat all round, no excess 
of marmalade oozing out, or tears of icing 
running down. Then warm a sharp carving- 
knife (I am supposing the cake is on a board), 
and cut through the lines you have marked, 



FINE CAKES AND SAUCES. 295 

■without hesitation, so that there may be no 
crumbs or roughness, which slow, over-care- 
ful cutting causes. AVhen cut up you should 
have, if neatly clone, an assortment of very 
delicious and ornamental cakes. 

FRENCH SWEET SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS, ETC. 

Sauce Madere a la Marmalade. — A half- 
pound of apricot marmalade ; half a tumbler 
of Madeira or sherry ; boil three minutes, 
then pass through a sieve, and serve as sauce 
to soufflees, cabinet puddings, etc. 

Sauce des CEafs au Kirsch. — Beat the yolks 
of eight eggs, put them in a saucepan with 
half a tumbler of kirsch, five ounces of pow- 
dered sugar, and half the rind of a lemon 
grated. Stir all in a double boiler till the 
mixture sticks to the spoon ; then remove 
from the boiling water ; stir for a minute to 
prevent curdling ; then it is ready to serve. 

CliaudeaxL Sauce. — Take two whole eggs, 
six yolks of eggs, and eight lumps of sugar 
(each one rubbed on lemon-peel), two pints 



296 CHOICE COOKERY. 

of Cliablis, and the juice of half a lemon ; 
beat them over a slow fire in a double boiler 
till a light froth is formed ; be very careful 
the eggs do not curdle when the boiling- 
point is reached ; take the sauce off the 
fire, and continue beating for a minute or 
two. If small streaks appear on the froth 
the sauce is done. Stir in a tablespoon- 
ful of fine rum, and the sauce is ready to 
serve. 

Sherry Sauce for Puddings. — Six yolks of 
eggs, one ounce of sugar, half a jiint of sher- 
ry, and the thin peel of a lemon. Beat the 
eggs with the sugar ; Avlien the wine is warm, 
stir them into it (let the lemon-peel steep in 
the wine while warming) ; stir all together 
till as thick as cream ; then remove from the 
fire, and take out the peel. In making all 
these sauces with eggs the same precaution 
is required as in making custard. 

Wine Sctuce, Xo. 2. — Three gills of water, 
one cup of sugar, one teaspoonful of corn- 
starch, and one gill of wine. Mix the corn- 



FINE CAKES AND SAUCES. 297 

starch with a little water ; pour the rest boil- 
ino' to it, stirrino- till smooth ; then add the 
suofar, and boil for five minutes ; then add 
the wine and a few drops of essence of lemon 
and the same of cinnamon. Use these flavor- 
ings drop by drop, as they differ in strength 
too much for an exact quantity to be given, 
and the taste must be the guide. Kum or 
brandy may be used instead of wine ; then 
the cinnamon is omitted. 

Ajyricot Sauces. — Half a small jar of apri- 
cot jam or marmalade ; dissolve it in three 
quarters of a gill of water with the juice of 
a lemon ; stir in three quarters of a gill of 
rum. This sauce is simply made hot, not 
boiled, and may be served cold with Baba or 
Savarin cake. Greengage marmalade may 
be substituted. 

AVlilpped Sweet Saiice. — Put the yolks of 
four eggs into a double saucepan with two 
ounces of sugar, one glass of sherry, the juice 
of one lemon, and a speck of salt ; beat all 
together ; then set the saucepan over the 



CHOICE COOKERY. 



fire, and whisk the sauce till it is a creamy 
froth, when it is ready to serve. 

Veri/ Fine Siveet Butter Saicce. — Wash four 
ounces of butter ; squeeze it dry ; beat it to 
a hard sauce with half a pound of powdered 
sugar ; then put the yolks of two eggs in a 
cold bowl; stir it a minute, then add to it a 
little of the hard sauce ; when well mixed 
add more, about a teaspoonful at a time ; 
when the hard sauce is blended with the 
yolks of eggs, stir in by degrees a wineglass 
of brandy or rum. Keep on ice till wanted. 

Vanilla Cream Sauce. — Put half a pint of 
fresh cream to boil, reserving a tablespoon- 
f ul ; mix this with a teaspoonful of flour ; 
stir it into the cream, with a tablespoon ful 
of sugar, when near boiling ; when it boils, 
stir for five minutes or ten in a double boiler ; 
then pour out the sauce, and stir in a small 
teaspoonful of vanilla and a few drops of ex- 
tract of rose or a teaspoonful of rose-water. 
Observe that the rose is used to give a dif- 
ferent tone to the vanilla, and not to impart 



FINE CAKES AND SAUCES. 299 

its o^yn flavor, therefore very little must be 
used. 

Almond Sauce. — Dissolve four ounces of 
almond paste in half a pint of sweet cream 
by stirring in a double boiler (the almond 
paste should be grated first) ; when botli are 
hot, add a tablespoonful of sugar and the 
yolk of an egg ; stir till the Qgg thickens, 
then remove from the fire and serve. 



XXXIII. 

SALADS AND CHEESE DISHES. 

Salad has come to form part of even the 
simplest dinners; and certainly cold meat 
and salad and excellent bread and butter 
make a meal by no means to he despised 
even by an epicure, while cold meat and 
bread and butter sound very untempting. 
The best dinner salad will perhaps always 
be white, crisp lettuce, with a simple French 
dressing, although, to those acquainted Avith 
it, escarole runs it hard, with its cool, watery 
ribs and crisp leaves. Elaborate salads, or 
those dressed with mayonnaise, are too heavy 
to form the latter part of an already suffi- 
ciently nourishing meal, but for luncheons 
and suppers the rich salad is invaluable. 

Salad which is to be eaten with game or 
to form a course at dinner may be a crisp 



SALADS AND CHEESE DISHES. 301 

white cabbage lettuce, Avater-cress, Eomaine 
lettuce, or that most delicious form of eiidive, 
escarole. 

The dressing should be the simple French 
dressing, about which so much has been writ- 
ten and said, and w4iich is so easy that per- 
haps it is one reason why so few make it 
well. There is nothing to remember beyond 
the proportions, and so many keep the quan- 
tity of oil, yinegar, and. pepper and salt in 
mind, but the manner of using them seems 
of no consequence ; but it is of so much con- 
sequence, if you do not want the yinegar on 
the leaves and the oil at the bottom of the 
salad bowl, that, w^ell known as the formula 
is, I am going oyer it again with a few 
details that may help to fix the matter in 
mind. 

In the first place it must be remembered 
that a wet leaf will repel oil, therefore the 
lettuce or other salad must be well dried be- 
fore it is sent to table. This is best done 
by swinging it in a salad basket, and then 



303 CHOICE COOKERY. 

spreading it between two cloths for a few 
minutes. Kow it must Ije quite evident, if a 
leaf wet ^vitli water will refuse to retain oil, 
that one wet with vinegar Avill do the same ; 
for this reason the leaves should he covered 
with oil hefore the vinegar is added, or the 
salad will be crude and very unlike what it 
should be if properly mixed in the following 
Avay : 

Take lettuce as the example, although any 
of those mentioned are made in the same 
way. Have the lettuce dr}^ in the salad 
bowl, put in the salad-spoon a saltspoonful 
of salt, a quarter one of pepper, and, hold- 
ing it over the bowl, fill the spoon with oil ; 
mix the salt and pepper well with it, and 
turn it over the salad ; toss the salad lightly 
over and over till the leaves glisten, then add 
two (if for epicures, three or four) more 
spoonfuls of oil, then toss again over and 
over till every leaf is well coated with oil ; 
then sprinkle in a saladspoonful of sharp 
vinegar. Toss again, and the salad is ready. 



SALADS AND CHEESE DISHES. 303 

One salad less well known than it deserves 
to be is that made from the grape fruit. 
This is an especially grateful dish for spring 
breakfast, when cool, refreshing things are 
in order. Many tell me they have tried to 
eat grape fruit, but find it quite impossible 
on account of the intense bitter. 

There is a very slujid and pleasant bitter 
with, grape fruit when properh^ prepared, 
but if by carelessness or ignorance even a 
small portion of the pith is left in it intense 
bitter is imparted to the whole. 

Grcqje -fruit Salad, — Prepare the fruit, 
some hours before it is wanted, in the fol- 
lowing way : Cut the fruit in four as you 
would an orange ; separate the sections ; 
then remove the pulp from each, taking care 
that no white pith or skin adheres to it. 
Put the pulp on the ice until just before 
serving ; then dress with oil and vinegar ex- 
actly as directed for lettuce, etc. 

Meat or fish salads should always be dressed 
with mayonnaise. I say nothing of the Avell- 



304 CHOICE COOKERY. 

known lobster and cliicken salads, which are 
so general that one is tempted to thiidv the 
majority of people do not know how ex- 
cellent some other combination salads are. 
Salmon salad — the fish flaked, laid on a bed 
of crisp lettuce with a border of the leaves, 
and masked with mayonnaise, with a gar- 
nish of aspic — is both handsome and deli- 
cious ; but cold halibut, or even cod — any 
firm fish that flakes, in fact — make delight- 
ful salads, and acceptable to many who can- 
not eat lobster. In the way of meat salads, 
partridge or grouse are far daintier than 
chicken, prepared in just the same way. 
There is one point, however, which should 
be observed in making all meat salads : it is 
that the material should be well dressed with 
oil, vinegar, and condiments before the may- 
onnaise is put on. Usually one of two courses 
is followed : either the meat is left dry, the 
mayonnaise being supposed sufiicient, or it is 
dressed with mayonnaise and then masked 
with it. In the latter case the salad is far 



SALADS AND CHEESE DISHES. 



305 



too rich ; in the former it is flat, because 
mayonnaise, if rightly made, lias not acidity 
enough to flavor the meat ; therefore it and 
the celery or other salad mixed Avith it should 
be bathed with French dressing before it is 
masked. 

With these general rules any salad may be 
made; but as variety is the spice of the ta- 
ble, it may be borne in mind that in spring 
a sprig of mint, very finely chopped, gives a 
fragrance to lettuce, as does chervil or borage, 
parsley, or a tiny bit of onion. To a game 
salad nothing should be added. 

Xo recipe is needed for mayonnaise, it hav- 
ing been given in the chapter on cold sauces. 

In the course of these chapters several 
cheese dishes have been given, but there are 
a few others especially appropriate to the 
cheese and salad course, where it constitutes 
part of the dinner, Avhich I v>ill include. 
Cheese dishes are far less popular in this 
country than in Euro])e, but there are fami- 
lies whose masculine members eat no sweets, 
20 



'■^^^^ CirOICP: COOKERY, 

and for whom a dainty cheese dish would be 
very acceptable. 

Genoa Icamaquln. — Cut a slice of Vienna 
or other baker's bread, half an inch thick, 
lengthwise of the loaf, so that it covers the 
bottom of a lire-proof dish — a souffle pan 
well buttered is excellent ; beat two eggs 
and half a pint of milk together ; add a level 
saltspoonful of salt; pour this custard over 
the bread, and leave it an hour to soak. 
Pour off any custard that may not be ab- 
sorbed ; dust the bread with pepper ; then 
cover with the following mixture : dissolve 
as much rich cheese shaved in half a gill of 
cream as will cover the bread an inch thick, 
stirring it over a slow^ fire. Season with pep- 
per and salt, and pour the cheese over the 
bread. Put it in the oven, and bake for half 
an hour, or till quite brown. 

Cheese P^fffs. — Line patty-pans with puff- 
paste, and fill three parts full w^ith the fol- 
lowing mixture: put a gill of cream in a 
double boiler w4th two ounces of grated 



SALADS AND CHEESE DISHES. 



307 



cheese (half Parmesan if liked), a saltspoon- 
ful of salt, a pinch of pepper, a pinch of 
sugar, and a large teaspoonf ul of butter ; 
when all is melted to a thick custard, break 
into it t\YO eggs Avell whipped. The mixt- 
ure is only to be made hot enough to melt 
the cheese, not to boil. 

Cheese Sticl's. — Take a piece of light bread 
dough about the size of a teacup, roll it out 
on a pastry -board, spread it with bits of firm 
butter, dredge with flour, fold and roll, re- 
peat until YOU have rolled in two ounces of 
butter, just as for puff-paste; now roll the 
pastry out the third of an inch thick, cut 
into strips half an inch wide and any length 
you think proper, lay them very straight on 
a baking-sheet, and bake slowly a very light 
In^own ; remove from the oven, let them cool, 
then brush them over with white of egg^ and 
roll them thickly in grated Parmesan ; return 
for a minute or two to the oven. These are 
very good with salad, but cannot easily be 
made in warm weather. Should the pastry 



308 CHOICE COOKERY. 

get too soft Avliile rolling, put it on ice, and 
it is better to do so at all times before cut- 
ting into sti'ips, so that the '^ sticks'' may be 
quite straight. 



INDEX. 



Alleniaiule Sauce, 18. 

Almond Cream, 229, 251 : Sauce, 

299; Triries, 279; Turban, 

285 ; Water-ice, 255. 
Apple Jellv, 212 ; Compote, 2G3- 

2G5. 
Apricot Sauces, 297; AYater-ices, 

250. 
xVrtichokes, Fried, 198. 
Aspic, Jelly, 195; Lobster in, 

79 ; jMayoniiaise, 47 ; Oysters 

in, 76; Keed-birds in, 159. 

Ballotines, 177. 
Bearnaise Sauce, 26. 
Bechamel Sauce, 17, 159. 
Beef, Fillets of, 86-89. 
Beet-root Fritters, 198. 
Birds, liow to bone, 172-175 ; 

liow to stuff, 175. 
r.iscuits. Bout, 286. 
Boudiees, 124. 
Bouquet of herbs, 07. 

Cabinet Puddinjr, 233, 239. 
Cakes, Dessert, 285, 289. 
CaUes and Sauces, tine, 291-295. 

Chestnut Croquettes, 291. 

Madeleines, 291. 

Pelits Fours, 292. 



[ Candied Orange and Lemon 

Peels, 260, 261. 
i Caper Sauce, 29. 
I Cardinal Sauce, 30. 
j Caulitlower Fritters, 198. 
j Celery Sauce, 29. 
Charlotte Kusse, 281-283. 
Chateaubriand Sauce, 34. 
Chaudfroid Sauce, 160. 
Chaudfroids. (See Entrees.) 
Cheese Dishes, 306-308. 
(ienoa Raraaquin, 306. 
Puffs, 306. 
Sticks,- 307. 
Chestnut Soup, 57; Croquettes, 

291. 
Chicken, h la Hollandaise, 114. 
And Ham Cutlets, 157. 
Chaudfroids of, 156. 
Fritot of, 132. 
Patties, 121. 
Salad, 154. 
Scallops, 130. 
Tartlets, 114. 
Timbale of, 129. 
Turtle fashion, 136. 
Chocolate Cream Pudding, 245. 
I Choice Cookery explained, 1-3. 
I Choi>s, Lamb and ^Mutton, 98- 
I 103. 



97984 



310 



INDEX, 



Ci<,'arctte.s lO.S, 13.'), 13G. 
Cimiamoii, care in selecting, 

210: Water-ice, 255. 
Claret Granito, 258; Jelly. 215. 
Cod, Fillets of, (VI. 
ColiKiamo Pies, 183-190. 
Compote of Apples, 203-205; of 
Cherries, 272-; of Chestnuts, 
209, 270; of Oranges, 209; 
of Pears, 200, 208;' of Pig- 
eons, 145; of Strawberries. 
272. 
Consontime, 51-55. 
Coquilles, 03, 04. 
Creams, 223-230, 235-237. 
Almond Cream, 229. 
Ijoheraian Jellv Creams, 

237. 
Cocoanut Cream, 235. 
CoflFee Cream, 220. 
Ciira^oa Cream, 220. 
Cinger Cream, 224. 
Hazel-nut Cream, 230. 
Here and in Europe, 223. 
Neapolitan Cream, 224. 
Nut Creams, 235. 
Pistaclie Cream, 229. 
Strawberry Cream. 227. 
Yanilla Cream. 227. 
Walnut or Hickory -nut 

Cream, 237. 
Whipped Cream, 213, 214. 
Croquettes, Chestnut, 291 : man- 
ner of preparing, 107. 
Cucumber, Fillets'of, 99 ; Fillets ! 
of IJabbit with, 150; Sauce, I 
29,48; Stuffed, 199. ^ 

Culinary matters, 79-85. ! 

Cura^oa, 258. j 

Currant Water-ice, 250. | 

Currants, how to cooU, 271. 



Cutlets, bow to prepare, 107. 
Chicken and Ham, 157. 
Lamb, 99, 100. 
Mutton, 90, 98. 
Pigeon, 143. 
Pussian Salad for, 101. 
Sweetbread, 109. 
Yeal, 139. 

Decorations, uneatable, 190. 
Dessert, Small Cakes for, 285. 
Down ton Sauce, 39. 
Dresden Patty Cases, 118. 

Entrees, 80-100, 129-152, 153- 
171. 

A Civet, 150. 

Baked Kavioli, 137. 

Cold Lamb Cutlets in Mint 
Jelly, 100. 

Chicken Souffle, 131. 

Chicken, Turtle fashion, 130. 

Cigarettes a la Chasseur.135. 

Cigarettes ;i la Peine, 134. 

Cutlets Chaudfroid a la 
Kusse, 102. 

Filets de Eoeuf ;i la Pear- 
naise, 87. 

Filets de Bceuf aux Cham- 
pignons, 87. 

Fillet of Beef, SO. 
. Fillets of Beef a la Grande- 
Bretagne, 89. 

Fillets of Cucumber, 99. 

Fillets of Babbit Avith Cu- 
cumber, 150. 

Fillets of Teal with Ancho- 
vies, 148. 

Fritot of Chicken. 132. 

Grenadines of Beef with 
Mushrooms and Poivrade 
Sauce, 88. 



INDEX. 



311 



Entrees — Continued. 

Grenadines of Rabbit a la 

Soubise, 149. 
Lamb Cutlets eu Coucoinbrc. 

99. 
Lamb Cntlets with a Puree 

of Mushrooms. 100. 
Lobster Quenelles, 13(). 
Mutton Cutlets a la d'Uxel- 

les, 90. 
Mutton Cutlets a la Mila- 

naise, 90. 
Mutton Cutlets, or Chops, 

98. 
Pigeon Cutlets. 143. 
Pigeons a la Tartare, 144. 
Quails ii la Jubilee, 141. 
Quails a la Lucnllus, 140. 
Salmis of Snipe, 147. 
Scallops of Chicken ii la 

Perigonl, 130. 
Souffle of Partridges, 14G. 
Sweetbreads a la Supreme, 

103. 
Sweetbreads in Cases, 106. 
Sweetbreads with Ovsters, 

104. 
Timbale of Chicken n, la 

Champenois, 1"29. 
Tirabales d'l^iMnard, 151. 
Veal Cutlets a la Primrose, 

139. 
Entrees, Cold, or Chaudfroids, 

153-171. 
Allumettes, 170. 
Canapes ;i la Bismarck, 

165. 
Caviare Canapes, 166. 
Chaudfroid of Reed-birds, 

160. 
Chaudfroids of Chicken, 156. 



Entrees, Cold — Continued. 

Cheese Biscuits a la St. 

James, 168. 
Chicken and Ham Cutlets, 

157. 
Chicken Salad a la Prince, 

154. 
Cold Cheese Souffles, 169. 
Croutes de Fromage Glace, 

169. 
Eggs a la St. James, 170. 
Icecl Savory Souffle, 162. 
Kluskis of Cream Cheese, 

168. 
Ovsters a la St. George, 

'l69. 
Prawns en Surprise, 166. 
Prince of Wales Canapes, 

167. 
Reed-birds in Aspic, 159. 
Savage Club Canapes, 164. 
Savories, 162-164. 
Shrimp Canapes, 168. 
Sweetbread au ]MontpelIier, 

153. 
Entrees, Fish, 61-70. 

Coquilles of Prawns, 63. 
Coquilles of Salmon or Hali- 
but, 64. 
Fillet of Flounders, 69. 
Fillet of Sole a la Nor- 

mande, 65. 
Fillets of Cod u la Xor- 

mande, 62. 
Lobster in Aspic, 79. 
Lobster Soufflecs, 62. 
Salmon en Papilloles, 65. 
Sole arHorly,6(;. 
Turbans of Sole :i la Roucn- 

naise, 67. 
Espagnole Sauce, 33. 



312 



[NDEX. 



Fillet, how to, 181. 182. 
Fillets of Kahbit. si 50. 
Fl;iv()riiii:;s and Liqueurs. 210- 

212. 
Floiiiulcrs. Fillet of, G9. 
Fritters, 198. 

Fruits, Macedoiiie of, 222. 
Frying, directions for, 01-95. 

Galantines, 172-177. 

Of Breast of Veal. 178. 

Of Sucking Pig, 179. 
Game Pie, 183. 

English manner of making, 
in a crust, 189, 190. 

Filling the case of, 186. 

French method of making, 
185. 
Game, Salad to eat with, 300. 
Garnishes, 191-198. 

Colored Custard, 192. 

Profiterolles, 194. 

Spinach Juice, 192. 

Stuffed Artichokes, 197. 
Gelatine, 196; right proportion 

for jelly, 217. ' 
Ginger Cream, 221: Dessert 

Cakes, 289 ; Water-ice, 253. 
Glaze, 8 ; how to preserve, 10. 
Graniti, 257, 258. 

Claret (iranito, 258. 

Sherry Granito, 258. 

To freeze, 257. 
Grape-fruit Salad, 303. 
Grenadines of Rabbit, 1-49, 

Ham, Puree of, 152. 

Herbs, French, 12; how to 

chop, 81 ; what required, 

12. 
Horseradish Sauce. -18. 



Ice-creams and Ices, 246-256. 

Almond Water-ice. 255. 

Apricot Water-ice, 256. 

Chinese Ice, 252. 

Cinnamon Water-ice, 255, 

Currant Water-ice, 256. 

Custard for Ice-cream, 249. 

Fruit Jam and Jellies with 
Ice-cream, 250. 

Ginger Water-ice, 253. 

Grilled Almond Ice-cream, 
251. 

Ice-cream with Eggs, 249. 

Pineapple Water-ice, 254. 

Pistachio Water-ice, 255. 

Simplest Fruit Ice-cream, 
246. 

Tea Ice-cream, 252. 

Tutti-frutti Ice-cream, 248. 
Ice Pudding, 240, 241. 
Iced Custard with Fruit, 244. 
Iced Puddings, 238, 239, 241, 
243. 

Jellies, 208-225. 

Aspic Jelly, 195. 

Consistency of Jelly, 214. 

Jellied Kaspberries, 2il. 

Jellv with Candied Fruits, 
220. 

Jellv with Fresh Fruits, 
218. 

I\Iint Jellv, 49. 

IMoidd of\\pple Jelly, 212. 

Plain Claret Jelly, 215. 

IJight proportions of Gela- 
tine for Jelly, 217. 

Roman Punch Jellies, 222. 

Kabobs, Oyster, 72-74. 
Kromcskies, 107. 



INDEX. 



313 



Lamb Cutlets, 99, 100. 

Lemon Baskets, 27-i ; Peels, 
Candied, 261. 

Lemons, how to grate, 82. 

Liqueurs and Flavorings, 210- 
212. 

Lobster, in Aspic, 79 ; Que- 
nelles, 136; Sauce, 29; Souf- 
fl6es, 62. 

Macaroons, 287. 
Macedoine of Fruits, 222. 
Madeleines, 291. 
IMarasclnno, 259, 
Matelote Sauce, 40. 
Mayonnaise, 43, 46, 47. 
INIeal, quantity to be used, 75. 
Meringue Paste, 251. 
Mint jelly, 49. 
]\Iolher Sauces, 6. 
Mushroom Baskets. 201. 
ISIushroom Jelly, 200. 
Mushrooms and Tomatoes, 200. 
jMushrooms, Stuffed, 200. 
Mutton Cutlets, 90, 98. 

Neapolitan Cream, 224, 
Norwegian Sauce, 47. 
Nut Creams, 229, 235-237. 

Onion, Spanish, 202-204. 
Orange Baskets, 272, 274, 
Orange Compote, 269. 
Orange Sauce, 39, 
Oyster Kabobs, 72, 74 ; Sauce, 29, 
Oysters, 71-78. 

A la Tartare, 78. 

A la Villeroi, 71. 

In Aspic, 76. 

Various ways of serving, 
71-78. 



Papillotes, 65, 
Parsley Sauce, 29. 
Partridges, Souffle of, 146. 
Patties, 116-124. 

Chicken, 121. 

Dresden Cases for, 118, 

Oyster, 121. 

Sweetbread, 120. 
I'ears, a la Princesse, 267 ; Cora- 

pote of, 265, 266, 268. 
Petits Fours, 292. 
Pies, Game, 183-190. 
Pigeon Cutlets, 143, 
Pigeons, a. la Tartare, 144; 

Compote of, 145. 
Pineapple Water-ice, 251, 
Piquante Sauce, 35, 
Pistache Cream, 229. 
Pistachio Water-ice, 255. 
Poivrade Sauce, 36. 
Potage, a la Ilollandaise, 56; a 

la Royale, 59. 
Potatoes, a la Proven(;ale, 204 ; 
Milanese, 205 ; Scalloped, 205. 
Poulette Sauce, 20. 
Prawns, Coquilles of, 03. 
Princess Soup, 58. 
ProHteroUes, 194. 
Puddings, 230-234, 238-246. 

Bombay Ice Pudding, 241, 

Chocolate Cream Pudding, 
245. 

Cold Cabinet Pudding, 2.33. 

Cold Souffle Pudding, 231. 

Diplomatic Pudding, 232. 

Filbert and Wine Iced Pud- 
ding, 243. 

Frangipanni Iced Pudiling, 
238, 

Frozen Pudding, 235. 

Ice Pudding, 240, 



314 



INDEX. 



239. 



231. 



I'liddings —Contiinicd. 
Iced Cabinet I'lidd 
Iced Custard with Fiinl, 
Iced Jelly riiddiii.t,^ 241 
Iced Puddings, 243. 
Imperial liice Pudding, 
Jubilee Pudding, 230. 
Kice ix la Princesse, 245. | 
Sauces for, 295-299. j 

PufTs, Clieese, 30(1. 

Puree of Ham, 152. 

Quenelles for entrees, 125-129; 
for soups, 53, 54. 

Rabbit, Grenadines of, 149 ; Fil- 
lets of, 150. 1 

Rabbits, 148. | 

Raspberries, how to cook, 271 ; \ 
Jellied, 221. 

Ratafia, 259. 

Ravioli, Baked, 137. 

Red Mayonnaise, 4lj. 

Reed-birds, Chaudfroids of, 160; 
in Aspic. 159. 

Rice Pudding, 231. 

Rissoles, 108. 

Robert Sauce, 38. 

Roman Punch Jollies, 222. 

Rout Biscuits, 286. 

Russian Salad fur Cutlets, 101. 

Salads, 800-305. 

Best dinner, 300. 

For Cutlets, 100. 

Grape-fruit, 303. 

How to dress, 301, 302. 

To eat with game, 300. 
Salmis of Snipe, 147. 
Salmon, Coquilles of, G4 ; en 
Papillotes, 65. 



Sauces, 11-22; 23-32; 33-41; 
42-50. 
A la d'Uxelles, 20. 
A la Normande, 38. 
Allemande, 18. 
Almond, 299. 
Apricot, 297. 
Aspic Mayonnaise, 47. 
Bearnaise, 26. 
Bechamel, 17, 159. 
Blonde, or White, 13-32. 
Burdelaise, 37. 
Brown, 33-41. 
Caper, 29. 
Cardinal, 30. 
Celery, 29. 
Chateaubriand, 34. 
Chaudfroid, 160, 161. 
Cold Cucumber, 48. 
Cold Sauces, 42-50. 
Consistency of, 24, 105. 
Cucumber, 29. 
Des GLufs au Kirsch, 295. 
Downton, 39. 
Espagnole, 33. 
(ireeu Mayonnaise, 46. 
Hollandaise, 30. 
Horseradish, 48. 
How to stir, 17. 
Light Normande, 39. 
Lobster, 29. 

Madere a la j\Iarmalade,295. 
INFatclote, 40. 
^lavonnaise, 43, 46, 47. 
iMiiU, 49. 

Mt)thcr Sauces, 6. 
Norwegian, 47. 
Orange, 39. 
Oyster, 29. 
Parsley, 29. 
Pi(piante, 35. 



INDEX. 



315 



Siiucca—Coniinued. 

Poivrade, 36. 

Poiilette, 20. 

lied Mayonnaise, 46. 

Robert-, 38. 

Kiile for seasoning, 18. 

Sherry, 20G. 

Shrimp, 29, 30. 

Soubise, 27. 

Ste. Menehoiild, 25. 

Supreoie, 23. 

Sweet Butter, very fine, 298. 

Sweet, French, for Pud- 
dings, 295-299. 

'I'artare, 48. 

Vanilla Cream, 298. 

Yelonte, or Wliite. 14. 

Villeroi,21, 

Wine, 296. 

Whipped Sweet, 297. 

White, 23-32. 
Sauteing, 95, 96. 
Scalloped Potatoes, 205. 
Scallops of Chicken, 130. 
Slierry Granite, 258 ; Sauce. 296. 
Shrimp Sauce, 29,30. 
Sole, h rilorly, 66 ; a la Xor- 

mande, 65 ; Kouennaise, 67. 
Soubise Sauce, 27 ; with Gren- 
adines of liabbit, 149. 
Souffls of Chicken, 131; of 

Lobster, 62 ; of Partridges, 

146 ; of Tomato, 20G. 
Soups, 51-60. 
Cliestnut, 57. 

Consomme a la TIachel, 52. 
Consomme a la Si'vigne, 55. 
Potage ji la Hollandaise, 56. 
Potage a la Roy ale, 59. 
Princess, 58. 
To clear Consomme, 51. 



Spanish Onion, 204. 
Spices and herbs required, 12. 
Spinach Fritters,206; Juice, 192. 
Ste. Menehould Sauce, 25. 
Stock, 7 ; to reduce to Glaze, 8. 
Strawberries, how to cook, 271 ; 

Compote of, 272. 
Strawberry Cream. 227. 
Stuffed Artichokes, 197: Cu- 
cumbers, 199. 
Sucking Pig, Ballotines of, 179. 
Supreme Sauce, 23. 
Sweet Sauce for Puddings, 295- 

299. 
Sweetbreads, a, la Supreme, 
103; au Montpellier, 153 
braised, 113; Cutlets of, 109 
in Cases, 106; Patties, 120 
with Ovsters, 104. ■ 
Sweets, 262-280. 

Almond Trifles, 270. 
Almond Turban, 285. 
Charlotte Russe with (lela- 

tine, 283. 
Compote of Apple Marma- 
lade, 265. 
Compote of Apples or Pears 

Grille, 265. 
Compote of Clierries, 272. 
Compote of Oranges, 269. 
Compote of Pears, 2(>6. 
Compote of Strawberries, 

272. 
Compote of Stuffed Apples, 

264. 
Compotes of Apple, 263, 264. 
Compotes of Chestnuts, 269, 

270. 
Fine Small Dessert Cakes, 

285. 
Ginger Dessert Cakes, 289. 



31G 



INDEX. 



Sweets — Contimud. 
Lemon Baskets, 274. 
Little China Dishes, 278. 
INIacarooiis, 287. 
Orange Baskets (illetl witli 

fruit, 272. 
Orange Basket Glace, 274. 
Pears a la Princesse, 2G7. 
Pink Compote, 207. 
Kaspberry Charlotte Eusse, 

281. 
Eoiit Biscuits, 285. 
Swiss Yacherin, 276. 
A^ariegated Compote of 

Pears, 2G8. 

Tartare Sauce, 48. 
Teal with Anchovies, 148. 
Timbale of Chicken, 129. 
Timbales d'Epinard, 151. 
Tomato Jelly, 205 : Souffle, 206. 
Tomatoes and Mushrooms, 200. 
Trifles, Almond, 279. 
Turban, Almond, 285. 
Turbans of Sole, 67. 

L^neatable decorations, 196. 

Yacherin, Swiss, 276. 

Yanilla Cream, 227; Cream 

Sauce, 298. 
Yariegated Compote of Pears. 

268. 
Ycal Cutlets ii la Primrose, 139. 
Yegetables, 197-207. 

A few ways of cookini:, 197. 

Beet-root Fritters, 198. 

Cauliflower Fritters, 198. 



Yegetables — Continued. 

Fried Artichokes, 108. 

]\Iilane.se Potatoes, 205, 

INfusliroom Baskets, 201. 

IMiishroom Jelly, 200. 

Mushrooms and Tomatoes, 
200. 

Mushrooms stuffed a la Lu- 
cullus, 200. 

Potatoes a la Proven(^ale,204. 

Scalloped Potatoes, 205. 

Spanish or Portuguese On- 
ion, 202, 203. 

Spinach Fritters, 206. 

Stuffed Cucumbers, 199. 

Stuffed Spanish Onion, 204. 

Tomato Jelly, 205. 

Tomato Souffle, 206. 

Yarious wavs of serving, 
199-207. 
Yeloute, or White, Sauce, 14. 
Yilleroi Sauce, 21. 

Walnut or Hickorv-nut Cream, 

237. 
Wt.'ter-ices, 253-256. 
Almond, 255. 
Apricot, 256. 
I CinnauKjn. 255. 
! Currant, 256. 
I (linger, 253. 
I Pineapfde, 254. 
Pistachio, 255. 
Whipped Cream. 213, 214; 
[ Sweet Sauces, 297. 
White Sauces, 23-32. 
Wine, Iced Pudding, 243; 
I Sauces, 296. 



THE END. 



MISS CORSOX'S FAMILY LIVING ON 
$500 A YEAR. 



Family Livino* on $500 a Year. A Daily Reference 
Book for Youno- and Inexperienced Housewives. 
By Juliet Corsox. 16mo, Cloth, $1 25. 

If we ever get as much as $500 a year we shall purchase 
this book and live like a prince. ... It goes carefully through 
the expenses of daily living, and indicates tlie tliousand and 
one ways in which a penny can be saved and another penny 
put where it will do most good. A book of this kind placed 
in the hands of those who liave very limited means will show 
that they can live very comfortably and have qiate enough 
to eat on a very small sum. — JV. Y. Htrakl. 

It is a helpful working book, sensible and practical, and 
tells how to buy, cook, and serve all sorts of food; how to 
can, pickle, and preserve ; and how to arrange and serve 
hmcheons, dinners, and teas, all in the most economical man- 
ner consistent with appetizing results. — Sundat/- School Time.t, 
Pliiladelphia. 

Food-economist, cook-book, and instructor in table service 
all in one. . . . The book is a capital one, and every house- 
keeper should feel grateful to the able a- d painstaking au- 
thor. — .V. Y. Post. 

The production of a lady who understands her subject 
thoroughly, and who earnestly wishes to help others towards 
the same useful knowledge. ... A book of this sort (and 
Miss Corson is the best al)le to produce it of any one we 
know) is a great aid, and the more it is circulated the more 
houseiiolds will be made happy. — Cltiirchman., X. Y. 

Every house-keeper, whether coming Avithin the scope of 
the author's effort or not, will find many instructive hints, a 
due regard for which will be conducive to the improved phys- 
ical well-being and increased mental serenity of the various 
members of her household. — St. Louis Republican. 



Plumsiikd by harper & BROTHERS, Xkw Yoiuc. 

tW IIakpf.r «fc Brothers tvill send the above icork bit mail, post- 
age jjrepaui, to any part of the United States or 
, Canada, on receipt of the price. 



MRS. SlIEiaVOOD'S MANNKIIS AND 
SOCIAL USAGES IN AMERICA. 



Manners and Social Usages in America. A Book 
of Etiquette. Bv Mrs. Johx Sherwood, pp. 448. 
New and P^nlarged Edition, Uevised by tlie Au- 
thor. 16mo, Extra Cloth, -$1 25. 

Mrs. Sherwood's admirable little volume differs from ordi- 
nary works on the subject of etiquette, chiefly in the two facts 
that it is founded on its author's personal familiarity with the 
usages of really good society, and that it is inspired by good- 
sense and a helpful spirit. . . . We think Mrs. Sherwood's lit- 
tle book the very best and most sensible one of its kind that 
we ever saw. — iV. Y. Commercial Advertkcr. 

We have no hesitation in declaring it to be the best work 
of the kind yet published. The author shows a just appreci- 
ation of what is good-breeding and what is snobbishness. . . . 
In happy discriminations the excellence of Mrs. Sherwood's 
book is conspicuous. — Brooklyn Union. 

It is a sensible and pleasantly written volume, which has 
already won recognition as one of the best books of its kind, 
and this new edition is called for by the heartiness with which 
the public has endorsed the work. — Courier^ Boston. 

A sensible, comprehensive book, which has endured criti- 
cism successfully, and deserves now to be regarded the best 
book of its kind published in this country. ... A better 
guide than Mrs. Sherwood's book througli the paths of social 
usages we do not know. The book is a handsome one, as it 
ought to be. — Christian Intelligencer^ X. Y. 



Fi'BLisHK.D BY HARPER & BROTHERS, New York. 

t^" Harpeii So Beotiikks will send the above work by mail, post- 
age prepaid, to any part of the United States or 
Canada, on receipt of the price. 



BOOKS FOR THE HOUSEHOLD. 



MRS. HENDERSON'S PRACTICAL COOKING. 

Practical Cooking- and Dinner Giving. A Treat- 
ise containing' Practical Instructions in Cooking; 
in the Combination and Serving of Dishes, and in 
the Fashionable modes of Entertaining at Break- 
fast, Lunch, and Dinner. By Mary F. IIender- 
sox. Ilhistratcd. 12mo, AVater- y)roof Cover, 
$1 50. 

MRS. HENDERSON'S DIET FOR THE SICK. 
Diet for the Sick. A Treatist3 on tlie Values of 
Foods, their Application to Special Conditions 
of Health and Disease, and on the Best Methods 
of their Preparation. By Mary F. Henderson. 
Ilhistratcd. 12mo, Cloth, 8l 50 

MliS. AVASHINGTON'S UNRIVALLED COOK- 
BOOK. The L'nrivalled Cook-Book and House- 
keeper's Guide. By Mrs. AVasiiington. 12mo, 
Water-proof Cover, 82 00. 

MRS. SMITH'S VIRGINIA COOKERY - BOOK. 
Virginia Cookery - Book. By Mary Stuart 
Smith. 12mo, Cloth, $1 50 ; 4to, Paper, 25 cents. 

BAZAR COOKING RECEIPTS. Cooking Re- 
ceipts from Harper s Bazar. 32 mo, Paper, 25 
cents; Clotii, 40 cents. 

MISS OAKEY'S BEAUTY IN DRESS. Beauty 
in Dress. Bv Miss Oaki: y. IGmo, Cloth, $1 00. 



Books for the Houscliohl. 



MRS. DEWLXG'S (MISS OAKEY) BEAUTY IN 
THE HOUSEHOLD. Beauty in the Household. 
By Mrs. T. W. Dewing, Author of " Beauty in 
DrcssJ' Ilhistrated. 16nio, Cloth, 8l 00. 

COAN'S OUNCES OF PREVENTION. Ounces 
of Prevention. By Titus Munsox Coan, M.D. 
]2mo, Paper, 25 cents ; Clotli, 50 cents. 

MRS. CHURCH'S MONEY-MAKING FOR LA- 
DIES. Money- Making for Ladies. By Ella 
RoDMAx CiiuRCii. lOnio, Cloth, 90 cents. 

WALKER'S HINTS TO AVOMEN ON THE 
CARE OF PROPERTY. Hints to Women on 
the Care of Property. By Alfred Walker. 
32mo, Paper, 20 cents; Cloth, 35 cents. 

MISS CORSON'S FAMILY LIVING. Family Liv- 
ing on $500 a Year. A Daily Reference Book 
for Young and Inexperienced Housewives. By 
Juliet CoRSOx. 16mo, Cloth, $1 25. 

MRS. HERRICK'S HOUSE -KEEPING MADE 
EASY. House-keeping Made Easy. By Chris- 
tine Teriiune Herrick. 16mo, Cloth, $1 00- 



Published by HARPER & BROTHERS, Xkw YoriJ. 

S£^ IlAurKP. & Brotiif.rs loill se7id any of the above works, post- 
age prepaid, to any part of the United States or 
Canada, on receipt of the price. 



JAN 2 2 1334 




.y.^v 



^Scce 



SSlOllS 



i^elf^o. 







This book is not in 
good condition. Please 
use lit carefully. 



Boston Public Library 

Do not write In this book or mark it with pen or 
pencl. Penalties for so doing are imposed by the 
Revised Laws of th e Commonwealth of Massachusetts. 

This Uok cvas issued to the borrozver on the date 
last stamped belozc. 




CHOICE COOKERY 



BY 



CATHERINE OWEN 

AUTHOR OP 
" TEX DOLLARS EXOCGH " "GENTLE BREAD WINNERS "' ETC. 



NEW YORK 

HARPER & BROTHERS, FRANKLIN SQUARE 

1889 
Cr 



ftr 



Copyrigbt, 1889, by Harper & Brothers. 



All rights reserved. 



^y / V 



/ 



PREFACE. 



Choice cookery is not intended for house- 
holds that have to stud}^ economy, except 
where economy is a relative term; where, 
perhaps, the housekeeper could easily spend 
a dollar for the materials of a luxurv, but 
could not spare the four or five dollars a 
caterer would charge. 

Many families enjoy giving little dinners, 
or otherwise exercising hospitality, but are 
debarred from doing so by the fact that 
anything beyond the ordinary daily fare 
has to be ordered in, or an expensive extra 
cook engaged. And although we may re- 
gret that hospitality should ever be depend- 
ent on fine cooking, we have to take things 



IV TREFACE. 

as they are. It is not every hostess who 
loves simplicity that dares to practise it. 

It was to help the women w^ho wish to 
know at a glance what is new^est and best 
in modern cookery that these chapters w^ere 
written for Harper's Bazar^ and are now 
gathered into a book. It is hoped by the 
writer that the copious details and simplifi- 
cation of different matters will enable those 
who have already achieved success in the 
plainer branches of cookery to venture fur- 
ther, and realize for themselves that it is 
only the "first step that costs." 

I have to acknowdedge my indebtedness 
to Mrs. Clarke, of the South Kensington 
School of Cookery, to Madame de Salis, and 
those epicurean friends who have cast tlieir 
nets in foreign w"aters,and sent me the dain- 
tiest fish they caught. 



CONTENTS: 



^ 



^ 



CHAPTER PAGE 

I. Introduction 1 

II. Sauces 11 

III. White Sauces 23 

IV. BiiowN Sauces 33 

V. Cold Sauces 42 

VI. Sours 01 

VII. Fisri Entrees Gl 

VIII. Various Ways of Servinu Oysters . . 71 

IX. Various Culinary Matters 79 

X. Entrees 8G 

XI. Entrees of Mutton Cutlets or Ciiors . 98 
XII. On the Manner of PuErARiNo Cro- 
quettes, Cutlets, Kromeskies, Ris- 
soles, AND Cigarettes 107 

XIII. Patties IIG 

XIV. Entrees 12o 

XV. 'EKTiiKES—coniiJiucd 134 

XVI. l\>N'niKKS— continued 143 

XVII. Cold Entrees, or Ciiaudfroids . . . 153 



VI CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER PAGE 

XVIII. Cold Entrees 163 

XIX. Galantines, Ballotines, etc. . . . 172 
XX. How TO "Fillet."— Cold Game Pies . 181 

XXI. Garnishes 191 

XXII. Various Ways of Serving Vegetables 199 

XXIII. Jellies 208 

XXIV. Jellies — continued 217 

XXV. Cold Sweets.— Creams 226 

XXVI. Creams and Frozen Puddings . . . 235 

XXVII. Iced Puddings 243 

XXVIII. Ice-creams and Water ices .... 252 

XXIX. Miscellaneous Sweets 2G2 

XXX. Miscellaneous Sweets— C6»;z^//iwaZ . . 271 
XXXI. Miscellaneous Sweets— co^i^/nwaZ . 281 

XXXII. Fine Cakes and Sauces 291 

XXXIII. Salads and Cheese Dishes .... 300 
Index . . , 309 



CHOICE COOKERY. 



I. 

INTRODUCTION. 

By choice cookery is meant exactly what 
the words imply. There will be no attempt 
to teach family or inexpensive cooking, those 
branches of domestic economy having been 
so excellently treated by capable hands al- 
ready. It may be said en passant, however, 
that even choice cooking is not necessarily 
expensive. Many dishes cost little for the 
materials, but owe their daintiness and ex- 
pensiveness to the care bestowed in cook- 
ing or to a fine sauce. For instance : cod, 
one of the cheapest of fish, and considered 
coarse food as usually served, becomes an 
1 



3 CHOICE COOKERY. 

epicurean dish when served with a fine Hol- 
landaise or oyster sauce, and it will not even 
then be more expensive than any average- 
priced boiling fish. Flounder served as sole 
Korinande conjures up memories of the fa- 
mous Philippe, whose fortune it made, or it 
mav be of luxurious little dinners at other 
famous restaurants, and is suggestive, in fact, 
of anythino^ but economy. Yet it is really 
an inexpensive dish. 

But while it is quite true that fine cook- 
ing does not always mean expensive cooking, 
it is also true that it requires the best mate- 
rials and sufficient of them ; that if satis- 
factory results are to be obtained there must 
be no attempt to stint or change proportions 
from a false idea of economy, although it 
must never be forgotten that all good cook- 
ing is economical, by which I mean that 
there is no Avaste, every cent's worth of ma- 
terial being made to do its full duty. 

In this book the object will be to give 
the newest and most recherche dishes, and 



INTRODUCTION. 3 

these will naturally be expensive. Yet for 
those families who depend upon the caterer 
for everything in the Avay of fine soups, 
entrees^ or sauces, because the cook can 
achieve only the plain part of the dinner, it 
will be found a great economy as well as 
convenience to be independent of this out- 
side resource, which is always very costly, 
and invariably destroys the individuality of 
a repast. Many new recipes will be given, 
and others little known in private kitchens, 
or thought to be quite beyond the attainment 
of any but an accomplished chef. But if strict 
attention be paid to small matters, and the di- 
rections faithfully carried out, there will be no 
difficulty in a lady becoming her own chef. 

I propose to begin with sauces. This is 
reversing the usual mode, and yet I think 
the reader will not regret the innovation. 
The cooking to be taught in these pages, 
being emphatically what is popularly known 
as " Delmonico cooking," very much depends 
on the excellence of the sauces served with 



4 CHOICE COOKERY. 

each dish ; and as it is no time to learn to 
make a fine sauce when the dish it is served 
with is being cooked, I think the better plan 
is to give the sauces first. They will be fre- 
quently referred to, but no repetition of the 
recipes will be given. 

Before proceeding further I will say a few 
words that may save time and patience here- 
after. Of course it is not expected that any 
one will hope to succeed Avitli elaborate dish- 
es without understanding the principles of 
simple cooking, but many do this without 
perceiving that in that knowledge they hold 
the key to very much more, and I would ask 
readers Avho are in earnest about the matter 
to acquire the habit of putting two and two 
together in cooking as they would in fancy- 
work. If you know half a dozen embroidery 
or lace stitches, you see at once that you can 
produce the elaborate combinations in which 
those stitches are used. So it is with cooking. 
The most elaborate dish will only be a com- 
bination of two or three simpler processes 



INTRODUCTION. 5 

of cooking, perfectly done— that is a sine 
qua noil — sometJiing fried, roasted, boiled, or 
braised to perfection, and a sauce that no 
chef could improve upon ; but to recognize 
that this is so — that when you can make a 
Chateaubriand sauce or a Bearnaise perfect- 
ly, and can saute a steak, the famed filets a 
la Chateaubriand or a la Bearnaise are no 
longer a mystery, or that one who can make 
clear meat jelly and roast a chicken has 
learned all but the arrangement of a chaud- 
froid in aspic — will make apparently com- 
plicated dishes simple. 

I go into these matters because I hope to 
cause my readers to thinh about the recipes 
they will use, when they will see for them- 
selves that even the finest cooking is not in- 
tricate nor in any way difficult. It requires 
intelligence and great care about details : no 
half-attention will do, any more than it will 
in any other thing we attempt, whether it be 
high art or domestic art. 

In making sauces or reading recipes for 



6 CHOICE COOKERY. 

them it simplifies matters to remember that 
in savory sauces — by which I mean those 
served with meats or fish — there are what 
the French call the two "mother sauces," 
white sauce and brown ; all others, with few 
exceptions, are modifications of these two ; 
that is to say, bechamel is only white sauce 
made with white stock and cream instead of 
milk ; allemande is the same, only yolks of 
eggs replace the cream ; and so on through 
the long list of sauces belonging to the blond 
variety. The simple brown sauce becomes 
the famous Chateaubriand by the addition of 
glaze (or very strong gravy) and a glass of 
white wine, and is the " mother " of many 
others equally fine. This being so, it will 
be seen that it is of the first importance that 
the making of these two "mother sauces" 
should be thoroughly understood, in order 
for the finer ones based on them to be suc- 
cessfully accomplished. 

It will clear the way for easy work if I 
here give the directions for making one of 



INTRODUCTION. 7 

the most necessary and convenient aids to 
fine cooking — the above-named glaze. To 
have it in the house saves much worry and 
work. If the soup is not just so strong as 
we wish, the addition of a small piece of 
glaze will make it excellent ; or we wish to 
make brown sauce, and have no stock, the 
glaze comes to our aid. To have stock in 
the house at all times is by no means easy in 
a small family, especially in summer ; with 
glaze, which is solidified stock, one is inde- 
pendent of it. 

Six pounds of lean beef from the leg, or a 
knuckle of veal and beef to make six pounds. 
Cut this in pieces two inches square or less ; 
do the same with half a pound of lean ham, 
free from rind or smoky outside, and which 
has been scalded iive minutes. Put the meat 
into a two-gallon j^ot with three medium- 
sized onions with two cloves in each, a turnip, 
a carrot, and a s?7iaU head of celery. Pour 
over them five quarts of cold water; let it 
come slowly to the boiling-point, when skim. 



8 CHOICE COOKERY. 

and draw to a spot Avhere it will gently sim- 
mer for six hours. This stock as it is will 
be an excellent foundation for all kinds of 
clear soups or gravies, with the addition of 
salt, which must on no account be added for 
glaze. 

To reduce this stock to glaze, do as follows : 
Strain the stock first through a colander, and 
return meat and vegetables to the pot ; put 
to them four quarts of hot water, and let it 
boil four hours longer. The importance of 
this second boiling, which may at first sight 
appear useless economy, will be seen if you 
let the two stocks get cold ; the first will 
be of delightful flavor, but probably quite 
liquid ; the last will be flavorless, but if the 
boiling process has been slow enough it will 
be a jelly, the second boiling having been 
necessary to extract the gelatine from the 
bones, which is indispensable for the forma- 
tion of glaze. 

Strain both these stocks through a scalded 
cloth. (If they have been allowed to get 



INTEODrCTION. 9 

cool, heat them in order to strain.) Put 
both stocks together into one large pot, and 
let it boil as fast as possible with the cover 
off, leaving a large spoon in it to prevent it 
boiling over, also to stir occasionally ; when 
it is reduced to three pints put it into a small 
saucepan, and let it boil more slowly. Stir 
frequently with a w^ooden spoon until it be- 
gins to thicken and has a fine yellowish- 
brown color, which will be Avhen it is re- 
duced to a quart or rather less. At this 
point watch closely, as it quickly burns. 
When there is only a pint and a half it will 
be fit to pour into small cups or jars, or it 
may be dried in thin sheets, if required for 
soup in travelling ; to do this, pour it into 
oiled tin pans an inch deep. "When cold it 
can be cut out in two-inch squares and dried 
by exposure to the air till it is like glue. 
One square makes a cup of strong soup if 
dissolved in boiling water and seasoned. If, 
however, it is put into pots, it must not he 
covered until all moisture has evaporated 



10 CHOICE COOKERY. 

and the glaze shrinks from the sides of the 
jar. This may take a month. 

The most convenient of all ways for pre- 
serving glaze is to get from your butcher a 
yard of sausage-skin. Tie one end very tight- 
ly, then pour in the glaze while warm by 
means of a large funnel. Tie the skin just 
as you would sausage as close to the glaze 
as possible, cut oif any remaining skin, and 
hang the one containing the glaze up to dry. 
When needed, a slice is cut from this. 

Of course any strong meat and bone-soup 
can be boiled down in the same way, and 
where there is meat on hand in danger of 
spoiling from sudden change of weather it 
can be turned into glaze, and kept indefi- 
nitely. I have found glaze five years old as 
good as the first week. 



11. 

SAUCES. 

In addition to the glaze, for Avhieh the rec- 
ipe is given in the preceding pages, and which 
will make you independent of the stock pot, 
there are several other articles involving very 
small outlay Avhich it is absolutely necessary 
to have at hand in order to follow directions 
without trouble and worry. 

It is often said by thoughtless housekeep- 
ers that cooking-books are of little use, be- 
cause the recipes always call for something 
that is not in the house. This is a habit of 
mind only, for the very women who say it 
keep their work-baskets supplied with every- 
thing necessary for work, not only the every- 
day white and black spools, nor would they 
hesitate to undertake a piece of embroidery 
which required quite unusual combinations 



12 CHOICE COOKEKY. 

of color or material, and to be obtained only 
with difficulty. Grant a little of this earnest 
painstaking to the requirements of the cook- 
ing-book at the start, see that the herb-bot- 
tles are supplied with dried herbs (when fresh 
are not attainable), the spice-boxes contain 
the small quantity of fresh fine spices that 
is sufficient for a good deal of cooking, and 
red and white wine and brandy are in the 
house, all of which should be kept in the 
store-closet for cooking alone, and not liable 
to be " out " when wanted. 

The so-called ^'French herbs" are rarely 
found in American gardens, yet might be 
very readily sown in early spring, as parsley 
is ; but although seldom home-grown, they 
are to be found at the French market-gar- 
dener's in Washington Market, and can be 
bought fresh and dried in paper bags quickly 
for use. I say dried quickly, because unless 
the sun is very hot much of the aroma will 
pass into the air ; it is, therefore, better to 
dry them in a cool oven. When thev are 



SAUCES. 13 

dry enough to crumble to dust, free the 
herbs from stems and twigs, and put them 
separately into tin boxes or wide-mouthed 
bottles, each labelled. The expense of herbs 
and spices is very slight, and they are cer- 
tainly not neglected among kitchen stores 
on that account ; it is merely the want of 
habit in ordering them. In addition to these 
articles a bottle of capers, one of olives, one 
of anchovies, canned mushrooms, and canned 
truffles should be on hand — the latter should 
be bought in the smallest-sized cans, as they 
are very costly, but a little goes a long way. 
Families living in the country often have for 
a season more mushrooms than they can use. 
In the few days in which they are plentiful 
opportunity should be taken to peel and dry 
as many as possible ; when powdered they 
giv^e a finer flavor than the canned mush- 
room, and may be used to great advantage 
in dark sauces. 

The French chef classes all white sauces as 
hloncle, and calls the jar of very smooth thick 



14 CHOICE COOKEEY. 

white sauce, which he keeps ready made as a 
foundation for most of the family of light 
sauces, his hlonde or veloute. This expla- 
nation is given because directions are often 
found in French recipes to *' take half a pint 
of veloute" or of ''blonde." The mistress 
of a private house may not find it wise or 
necessary to keep a supply of sauce ready 
made, although to one who has to supply a 
variety of sauces each day it is indispensable ; 
but the day before a dinner-part}^ sauces can 
be so made, and covered with a film of but- 
ter to prevent skin forming, and can then 
be heated in a bain-marie when required for 
use. Almost every chef has his favorite 
recipe for veloute, or white sauce, but they 
differ only in points that are little essential ; 
the foundation is always the same, as fol- 
lows : Put two ounces of butter in a thick 
saucepan with two ounces of flour (table- 
spoonfuls approximate the ounce, but weight 
only should be reUed on for fine cooking). 
Let these melt over the fire, stirring them 



SAUCES. 15 

SO that the butter and flour become weU. 
mixed ; then let them bubble together, stir- 
ring enough to prevent the flour sticking or 
chancrinof color. Three minutes will suffice 
to cook the flour; add a pint of clear hot 
white stock that has been strained through 
a cloth. This stock must not be poured 
slowly, or the sauce \yill thicken too fast. 
Hold the pint-measure or other vessel in 
which the stock may be in the left hand, 
stir the butter and flour quickly with the 
right, then turn the broth to it all at once. 
Let this simmer an hour until very thick, 
then add a gill of very rich cream, stir, and 
the sauce is readv. 

This is undoubtedly the best way to make 
white sauce, which is to serve as a founda- 
tion for others, or is intended to mask meat 
or poultry, the long, slow simmering produc- 
ing an extreme blandness not to be attained 
by a quicker method. But circumstances 
sometimes prevent the previous preparation 
of the sauce, in which case it may be made 



16 CHOICE COOKEEY. 

exactly in the same way, only instead of a 
pint of broth, but three gills should be poured 
on the butter and flour, and a gill of thick 
cream stirred in Avhen it boils ; the sauce is 
finished when it again reaches the boiling- 
point. 

This is the foundation for the foUoAV- 
ing " grand " sauces : Poulette, Allemande, 
Uxelles, Soubise, Ste. Menehould, Perigueux, 
Supreme, besides .all the simpler ones, which 
take their name from the chief ingredient, 
such as caper, cauliflower, celery, lobster, etc., 
etc. 

For sauces that have vinegar or lemon 
juice, it is better that the veloute, or white 
sauce, should have no cream until the last 
minute, or it may curdle. My object in giv- 
ing the recipes for sauces in the way I intend 
— that is to say, by building on to, or omit- 
ting from, one foundation sauce — is to dispel 
some of the confusion which exists in the 
minds of many people about the exact differ- 
ence between several sauces differing from 



SAUCES. 17 

each other very slight!}^ — a confusion which 
is only added to by reading over the fully 
Avritten recipes for each, as many a painstak- 
ing, intelligent woman's headache will tes- 
tify. As w^e progress, the exact difference 
between each will be explained. 

Bechamel. — This sauce differs from the 
white sauce only in the fact that the white 
stock used for the latter need not be very 
strong; for bechamel it should either be 
very strong or boiled down rapidly to make 
it so, and there should always be half cream 
instead of one third, as in Avhite sauce, and 
when required for fish the stock may be of 
fish. White sauce is frequently (perhaps 
most frequently) made with milk, or milk 
and cream, in place of stock, in this countrj^, 
and answers admirably for many purposes, 
but Avould not be what is required for the 
kind of cooking intended in these pages. 

Most readers know how "to stir," and it 
may seem quite an unnecessary matter to go 
into. Yet if only one reader does not know 
2 



18 CHOICE COOKERY. 

that to stir means a regular, even, slow cir- 
cling of the spoon, not only in the centre of 
the saucepan, but round the sides, she will 
fail in making good sauce. Stir, then, slow- 
ly, gently, going over every part of the bot- 
tom of the saucepan till the sides are reached, 
pass the spoon gently round them, thence 
back to the middle, and so on. In this* way 
the sauce gets no chance to stick to any par- 
ticular spot. A small copper saucepan is the 
best possible utensil for making sauce, as it 
does not burn. 

The rule for seasoning is a level salt-spoon- 
ful of salt to half a pint ; pepper, one fourth 
the quantity. This, however, is only when 
the stock is unseasoned; if seasoned, only 
salt enough must be added to season the 
cream and eggs. 

AUeinande. — Take half a pint of white 
sauce, add to it half the liquor from a can of 
mushrooms, and half a dozen of the mush- 
rooms chopped fine. Let them simmer — 
stirring all the time — five minutes, then re- 



© 



SArCES. 19 

move from the fire. Set the saucepan into 
another containing boiling water. Have the 
yolks of three eggs ready beaten, put a little 
of the sauce to them, beat together, then add 
the eggs gradually to the rest of the sauce, 
which must be returned to the fire, and 
stirred until the eggs hegin to thicken ; then 
it must be quickly removed, and stirred until 
slightly cool. Season with a saltspoonful of 
salt, a fourth of one of pepper, and strain 
carefully. 

It must never be forgotten that in thicken- 
ing with eggs the sauce or soup must not hoil 
after they are added, or they will curdle. 
Yet if they do not reach the boiling-point 
they will not thicken. Only keen attention 
to the first sign of thickening will insure 
success. If a failure is made the first time, 
look upon it as the first step to success, for 
you have learned what the danger looks like. 
Make the sauce again as soon as possible, so 
that your eye may not lose the impression. 
It is worth considerable effort (and it is 



20 CHOICE COOKEEY. 

really only a matter of a few minutes each 
time) to make Allemande sauce well, for in 
doing so you also learn to make HoUandaise 
and several choice sauces, as will be seen by 
those that follow. 

Poulette Sauce. — Make Allemande sauce 
as directed in the foregoing recipe ; add a 
wineglass of white wine. If sweetbreads or 
chicken are to be cooked in the sauce, as is 
not unusual, of course the eggs must be left 
out until the last thing. Anything served 
with this sauce is called a la poulette. 

Sauce a la d^ TJxelles. — Chop fine a dozen 
small button mushrooms, or half a dozen 
large ones ; parsley and chives, of each 
enough to make a teaspoonful when finely 
chopped ; of lean ham a tablespoonf ul, and 
one small shallot. Fry gently in a table- 
spoonful of butter, but do not let them 
brown. Stir these into half a pint of white 
sauce, simmer three or four minutes, then 
add two yolks of eggs, as for Allemande, 
and the last thing a half - teaspoonful of 



SAUCES. 21 

lemon-juice, and just enough glaze to make 
the sauce the shade of a pale Suede glove. 
This sauce is used cold to coat meats that 
have to be cooked in paper, and many that 
are afterwards to be fried in bread-crumbs, for 
which directions will be given in the entrees. 
Dishes termed a la cV Uxelles are among the 
most recherche productions of the French 
kitchen. 

Villeroi Sauce. — Make half a pint of white 
sauce, which, as in the case of bechamel, may 
be made of fish stock .when for use with fish ; 
chop half a dozen mushrooms, and add a gill 
of the liquor to the sauce, half a saltspoonf ul 
of powdered thyme (or one sprig, if fresh), 
two sprigs of parsley, and half a bay-leaf; 
simmer for fifteen minutes ; strain through 
a scalded cloth ; replace on the fire ; add a 
jDiece of glaze as large as a hazel-nut, or a 
tablespoonful of strong meat -gravy, just 
enough to give it the shade oijyalest cafe au 
lait ; thicken with two yolks of eggs, as for 
Allemande sauce. All articles served with 



23 CHOICE COOKERY. 

this sauce are termed d la Villetvi. It dif- 
fers from d'Uxelles only in having no ham, 
nor acidity from the lemon ; also, all flavor 
of onion is omitted. 



III. 

WHITE SAUCES. 

SuPEEME SAUCE givGS its name to several 
dishes dear to epicures — supreme de volaille, 
supreme de Toulouse, etc. It is made with 
a pint of thick white sauce, a pint of very 
strong chicken broth, four stalks of parsley, 
and six white pepper-corns, boiled down to 
half a pint. Stir sauce and broth together 
until thoroughly blended, then boil rapidly 
down till thick again, taking great care it 
does not burn. Add one gill of double 
cream, and half a saltspoonful of salt (if the 
stock was already seasoned). Boil up till 
thick enough to mash the hack of a sj)oon^ 
strain, and the last thing add a small tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice. 

When the white sauce has to be made ex- 
pressly for the supreme, it is easier to use 



24 CHOICE COOKERY. 

strong chicken broth in place of ordinary 
white stock ; then it is not necessary to add 
it after. The term " to mask the back of a 
spoon " is a common one to indicate the prop- 
er thickness for sauces, but to the untrained 
eye it may not be easy to decide just what 
"masking" means. Most sauces shoukl be 
thin enough to run quite freely from the 
spoon, yet not so thin as to leave the color 
of the spoon visible through the coating of 
sauce it will retain if it be dipped into it ; 
there should be a thin oj)aque coating or 
" mask " to the back of the spoon. Sauce of 
this thickness is produced by using one ounce 
(exact weight) of flour of fine quality to half 
a pint of liquid. Meat, fish, or vegetables 
over which sauce of this consistency has 
been poured will be quite masked, but the 
sauce will not be too thick to serve readily 
with a spoon. This consistency is worth 
some practice to attain, for it is the perfec- 
tion of sauce-making. 

White sauce, when intended for the foun- 



WHITE SAUCES. 25 

dation of others, it must be observed, is made 
twice as thick, to allow for the addition of 
cream, wine, or stock. The only advantage 
in a private family of making it thus thick 
is w^hen, perhaps, two or three sauces are 
needed for a dinner; for example, a plain 
white sauce for a vegetable, caper, lobster, 
or cardinal for other purposes, and perhaps 
poulette, d'Uxelles, or other pale sauce for an 
entree ; but Avhen one sauce only is required, 
it is best to make that one from the begin- 
ning ; that is to say, make white sauce with 
the additions that form it into Allemande, 
supreme, or whatever you require. 

Ste. Menehould Sauce is in these days 
chiefly associated with '^ pigs' feet a la Ste. 
Menehould," but is good for several pur- 
poses. It is simply half a pint of white sauce 
into w^iicli a dozen bruised mushrooms, a 
gill of the mushroom liquor, a large teaspoon- 
ful of finely chopped chives, with the sixth of 
a saltspoonful of pepper and one of salt are 
allowed to simmer until the sauce is the same 



26 CHOICE COOKERY. 

thickness as before the addition of the mush- 
room liquor ; that is to say, thick enough to 
mask the spoon. Strain, return to the sauce- 
pan, and add a teaspoonf ul of finely chopped 
sage leaves, if for pigs' feet, or parsley for oth- 
er purposes ; boil once, add half a teaspoon- 
ful of lemon juice, and the sauce is ready. 

Bearnaise Sauce. — This is one of the most 
difficult sauces to make, on account of the 
danger of the eggs curdling ; but by the fol- 
lowing method the work is rendered more 
sure than by the usual plan. It has been 
said that the terrors of a cook are Bearnaise 
sauce and omelette soufflee, but neither is 
really difficult ; great care only is necessary 
for success with each. 

Chop four shallots .fine, put them into a 
saucepan with half a gill of Tarragon vine- 
gar and half a gill of plain vinegar ; boil till 
reduced to one tablespoonf ul ; then add one 
gill of white sauce, mixing Avell. Stand the 
saucepan in another of boiling water ; then 
add, one at a time, three yolks of eggs, beat- 



WHITE SAUCES. 27 

ing each one well in before adding another, 
and on no account let the sauce hoil. Remove 
the saucepan from the fire when the eggs are 
aU in and show signs of thickening. Have 
ready three ounces of butter cut into small 
pieces ; drop one in at a time, and with an 
egg-whisk beat the sauce till the butter is 
blended ; then add another piece, and so on, 
till all the butter is used. If added too 
quickly the butter will oil, therefore great 
care must be taken to see one piece entirely 
blend before adding another. The butter 
will probably salt the sauce enough, but if 
not, add a very little salt. This sauce should 
have the appearance of a Welsh-rabbit when 
ready to spread ; in other words, it should be 
very thick, smooth, and dark yellow. 

Sonhise. — This sauce, which transforms 
ordinary mutton-chops into "cotelettes a la 
Soubise," is very easily made. Boil half a 
dozen Bermuda onions (medium size) in milk 
till quite tender; press out all the milk; 
chop them as fine as possible ; sprinkle a 



28 CHOICE COOKERY. 

quarter of a saltspoonful of white pepper 
and one of salt over them ; then stir them 
with a tablespoonful of butter into half a 
pint of white sauce. If the onions should 
thin the sauce too much (they are sometimes 
very watery), thicken with a yolk of egg, or 
blend a teaspoonful of flour with the butter 
before stirring it in. Boil the sauce three 
minutes. Xeedless to say, if the yolk of egg 
is added, it must be beaten in after the sauce 
is removed from the stove, and only allowed 
to thicken, not boil. 

The sauces so far given are w^hat French 
cooks call " grand sauces." They are the 
most important part of the dish with which 
they are served, and, as we have seen, give 
the name to it. There are numberless other 
sauces of which the white sauce is parent 
that are, however, not indispensable to the 
dish they are served with — by which I mean 
a boiled flsh may be served with oyster sauce 
or Dutch sauce, the sauce beino" in this case 
simply the adjunct. 



o 



WHITE SAUCE. 29 

A dessertspoonful of capers put into half 
a pint of white sauce, with a teaspoonful of 
the vinegar, makes caper sauce. 

Celery sauce is, again, white sauce w4th 
the pulp of boiled celery. Boil the white 
part of four heads of celery ( sliced thin) in 
milk till it will mash ; this will take an hour, 
perhaps more ; then rub the pulp through a 
coarse sieve, and stir it into half a pint of 
white sauce made with half rich cream. 

Oyster sauce is wdiite sauce made by using 
the oyster liquor instead of stock. The oys- 
ters should be bearded, just allowed to plump 
in the liquor, which must then be strained 
for the sauce, using a gill of it with a gill of 
thick cream to make half a pint ; for this 
quantity a dozen and a half of small oysters 
w411 be required. 

Shrimp sauce, parsley sauce, lobster sauce, 
cucumber sauce, and all the family are white 
sauce with the addition of the ingredient 
naming it. Cucumber sauce, which is ap- 
proved for fish, is made by grating a cucum- 



30 CHOICE COOKEEY. 

ber, and adding it, with the water from it. to 
some white sauce ; boil till Avell flavored, 
and then strain. If too thin, boil till thick, 
stirring carefully. 

For shrimp sauce canned shrimps serve 
very well indeed ; they must be thrown for 
a minute into cold water, well stirred in it to 
remove superfluous salt, then drained, and 
dried on a cloth. Put a gill of shrimps to 
half a pint of bechamel made with fish stock, 
boil once, and stir in just enough essence of 
-anchovy to make tlie sauce a pale shrimp 
pink. 

Cardinal sauce is a handsome sauce for 
boiled fish. It is made by drying the coral 
from a lobster, then pounding it quite smooth, 
with one ounce of butter, until it is a per- 
fectly smooth paste. Stir this into half a pint 
of bechamel. It should be a fine red when 
mixed ; pass through a sieve, and add as 
much cayenne as will go on the end of the 
blade of a small penknife. 

Hollandaise or Dutch sauce is best made in 



WHITE SAUCE. 31 

the following way. There are other meth- 
ods, but this one meets -general approval, is 
not difficult, and agrees with many who can- 
not possibly eat it when oil is used. 

Make half a pint of drawn butter by melt- 
ing one ounce of butter with one ounce of 
flour over the fire ; let them bubble together 
(stirring the while) for one minute ; then stir 
in half a pint of boiling water and half a 
teaspoonful of salt. So far, the making is 
exactly the same as for white sauce, except 
that water is used instead of cream and 
stock. Boil once, then set the saucepan in 
another of water, and break up an ounce of 
butter into small pieces and add them ; stir 
briskly after each piece is added, and see it 
blend before putting more. When all is in, 
add the beaten yolks of five echo's, removing: 
the saucepan from the fire while doing it. 
They must be very carefully and gradually 
stirred in, and when well mixed returned to 
the fire until they hegin to thicken. The 
eggs must be kej)t from curdling. Squeeze 



32 CHOICE COOKERY. 

in two teaspoonfuls of lemon juice, and add 
just a dust of ca3^enne. This should be a 
thick, 3^ellow, custard-like sauce, and have a 
perceptible acidity without being sour. 



ly. 

BROWX SAUCES. 

It has been already stated that the family 
of brown sauces, like the Avhite, have one 
parent, Esjyagnole, or Spanish sauce, which 
is the foundation for Chateaubriand, Finan- 
ciere, Robert, Poivrade, Piquante, and other 
sauces. Ordinary brown sauce, like ordinary 
white, is often made without stock — simply 
an ounce of flour, one of butter, browned to- 
gether, and half a pint of boiling water 
added, then boiled till thick and smooth. 
But it may be safely said that in high-class 
dark sauces water should play no part ; its 
place must be taken by stock of good quali- 
ty, which is often enriched by reducing or 
adding glaze. 

The characteristics of finely made Spanish 
sauce are a clear beautiful brown, by no 
3 



34 CHOICE COOKERY. 

means approaching black, absolute freedom 
from grease, and a fine high flavor, so well 
blended that no particular spice or herb can 
be detected. Spanish sauce is made as fol- 
lows : Wash, peel, and cut small six mush- 
rooms (or a dessertspoonful of mushroom 
powder), one small carrot, one small onion, 
and one shallot ; dry them, and fry them a 
fine brown in a tablespoonful of butter, but 
do not let them burn ; drain off the butter. 
Melt in a copper saucepan two ounces of 
butter and two ounces of flour, stir them to- 
gether over the fire till of a pale bright 
brown, then add a pint of stock, the fried 
vegetables, and a gill of tomato sauce ; let 
all gently simmer for half an hour with the 
cover off. Strain through a fine sieve. When 
Spanish sauce is to be served without any 
addition, and not as a foundation, a wine- 
glass of sherry is used and the same quan- 
tity of stock omitted. 

It becomes Chateaubriand by the addition 
of a wineglass of sherry reduced to half a 



BROWN SAUCES. 35 

glass by boiling in a tiny saucepan, a dessert- 
spoonful of fresh parsley very finely chopped, 
and the Juice of half a small lemon. These 
must be added to one third the quantity of 
Espagnole, or Spanish sauce, given in the 
foregoing recipe. Then stir in gradually, 
bit by bit, one ounce of butter, letting each 
piece blend before adding more. 

I have said here and elsewhere, " the juice 
of half a small lemon." Yet I w^ould cau- 
tion the reader to squeeze it in gradually, 
because some lemons are intensely sour, and 
a very few drops of juice from such go far- 
ther than that of the whole half of an aver- 
age lemon. Chateaubriand sauce is by no 
means acid ; there must be only a just per- 
ceptible dash of acidity, and only so much 
lemon juice used as will give it zest. Pi- 
quante sauce is different; there should be 
acidity enough to provoke appetite ; yet 
even this should be by no means sour. 

To make Piquante sauce, chop a shallot 
fine, put it, with a tablespoonful of vinegar. 



36 CHOICE COOKERY. 

iato a very small saucepan ; let them stew 
together until the vinegar is entirely al- 
sorled, but do not let it burn. Then add to 
it half a pint of Spanish sauce and a gill of 
stock, with a bay-leaf and a sprig of thyme ; 
cook very gently ten minutes, remove the 
thyme and bay -leaf, and add a dessertspoon- 
ful of chopped pickled cucumber, a teaspoon- 
f ul of capers, and a dessertspoonful of finely 
chopped parsley. Simmer very slowly ten 
minutes more ; then add enough cayenne to 
lay on the tip of a penknife blade. 

Poivrade resembles piquante sauce very 
closely, differing from it, however, by the 
addition of wine and higher flavoring. To 
make it, fry an onion and a small carrot cut 
fine, a tomato sliced, and an ounce of lean 
ham in two ounces of butter; let them 
brown slightly; then add to them half a 
pint of claret, a bouquet of herbs, two cloves, 
and six peppercorns; let them simmer till 
the wine is reduced one half ; then add half 
a pint of good Spanish sauce, boil gently ten 



BROWN SAUCES. 37 

minutes, strain, and serve very hot. A true 
French poivrade has a soupcon of garhc, ob- 
tained bv rubbino^ a crust on a clove of it, 
and simmering it in the sauce before strain- 
ino- it ; but althouci:h manv woukl hke the 
scarcely perceptible zest imparted by this 
cautious use of garlic, no one should try the 
experiment unless sure of her company. 

A "bouquet of herbs" always means two 
sprigs of parsley, one of th^ine, one of mar- 
joram, and a bay-leaf, so rolled together (the 
bay-leaf in the middle) and tied that there 
is no difficulty in removing it from any dish 
which is not to be strained. 

The well-known Bordelaise sauce is sim- 
ply Spanish sauce with the addition of white 
wine and shallots. Scald a tablespoonful of 
chopped shallots ; put them to half a pint 
of Chablis, Sauterne, or any similar white 
wine ; let the wine reduce to one gill ; then 
mix Avith it half a pint of Spanish sauce and 
the sixth part of a saltspoonful of pepper. 
Strain and serve. 



38 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Robert sauce, that excellent adjunct to 
beefsteak, varies again from Bordelaise, vine- 
gar and mustard and fried onions taking the 
place of the wine and shallot. Chop three 
medium-sized onions quite fine ; fry them in 
a tablespoonful of butter until they are a 
clear yellowish - brown, stirring them con- 
stantly as they fry ; drain them, and put 
them to a half -pint of Spanish sauce, to 
which you add a wineglass of stock (to allow 
for boiling away) ; simmer gently twenty min- 
utes ; add a pinch of pepper ; strain ; then mix 
a teaspoonful of vinegar in a cup with a tea- 
spoonful of mustard ; stir this into the sauce. 

Sauce a la Norrriande is one of the most 
delicious sauces for baked fish of any kind, 
although usually associated with sole. To 
half a pint of Spanish sauce add a dozen 
mushrooms sliced in half, a dozen small oys- 
ters with the beards removed, and a dozen 
craAvfish, if they are to be had, or their place 
may be taken by a tablespoonful of shrimps 
picked (canned shrimps, washed and dried, an- 



BROWN SAUCES. 39 

swer very well), one tablespoonf ul of essence 
of anchovy, and just a dust of Cayenne pepper. 

Light Normande is made by using be- 
chamel instead of Spanish sauce, adding all 
the other materials ; it is then a pale salmon- 
colored sauce, excellent for boiled fish. 

A favorite English sauce for fish, which is 
also brown or pink, according to w^hether it 
is intended for baked or boiled fish, is the 
Downton sauce. To three quarters of a 
pint of bechamel add a dessertspoonful of 
anchovy essence and a small wdneglass of 
sherry, mix well, and serve. 

Orange sauce for game is made with half 
a pint of Spanish sauce boiled five minutes 
to make it rather thicker than usual, the 
juice of three sweet oranges, and the peel of 
one. This peel must be so thinly pared as 
to be transparent. Boil this peel half an 
hour in w^ater, then shred it into fine even 
strips half an inch long, and not thicker than 
broom straw. Stew this shredded peel an- 
other half -hour in a gill of stock, with a 



40 CHOICE COOKERY. 

scant teaspoonful of sugar; then add it to 
the sauce, with half a saltspoonful of salt, 
and boil five minutes. 

Matelote may come in with the brown 
sauces, although it is not made with Spanish 
sauce as a foundation, but only with strong 
stock. It is used to simmer fish in when di- 
rected to be a la matelote^ and if it were al- 
ready thickened the Avhole would burn. It 
is made as follows : Half a pint of Sauterne 
or Chablis, half a pint of rich stock, two bay- 
leaves, three leaves of tarragon, chervil, and 
chive, a scant saltspoonful of salt, a quarter 
one of pepper; simmer these until reduced 
to one half-pint. A touch of garlic is indis- 
pensable to the true matelote, but when used 
it must be done with the greatest caution ; a 
fork stuck into a clove of it, then stirred in 
the sauce (the fork, when withdraAvn, not the 
garlic), or a crust rubbed once across a piece of 
it, is the only way in which it should be used. 

Like the white sauces, the family of brown 
ones is very large, but I have given those 



BROWN SAUCES. 41 

to. 

which require special directions. Others are 
simply Spanish sauce with the addition of 
the ingredient which gives its name to it, as 
brown oyster sauce is simply Spanish sauce 
with oysters, celery sauce, mushroom sauce, 
and so on. It should always be remembered 
that the consistency must be preserved ; that 
is to say, except when special mention is 
made of the sauce being thinner, it should 
" mask the spoon," and if the addition made to 
it is of a kind to dilute it, as mushrooms and 
part of their liquor, it must be rapidly boiled 
down to the original thickness. In the same 
way, when ingredients have to be simmered 
in the sauce — and this is very often the case 
— then a wineglassf ul or half one of broth or 
stock should be allowed for the wasting. 

In the next chapter Ave will make acquaint- 
ance w^ith the miscellaneous sauces which 
are not built on the foundation of either 
white or brown sauce. These are chiefly 
cold sauces, although served with hot dishes 
at times, as Tartare, Remoulade, etc. 



Y. 

COLD SAUCES. 

Cold dishes^ which are such a pleasing 
feature of foreign cookery, are much neg- 
lected with us, at least in private kitchens, 
or they are limited to two or three articles 
served in mayonnaise, or a galantine, yet 
the dishes which the Erench call chaud- 
f voids are both delicious and ornamental, 
and it only requires a little taste, care, and 
jperfect sauce to convert the ordinary cold 
chicken, turkey, or game into an elaborate 
and choice dish. 

Among cold sauces, of course mayonnaise, 
both green, red, and yellow, reigns suj)reme ; 
indeed, of late years it has become almost 
hackneyed. Yet no Avork on choice eat- 
ing Avould be complete without the different 
forms of mayonnaise. 



COLD SAUCES. 43 

Mayonnaise is one of those sauces in which 
everything depends on care, and very little 
on skill, and yet some women have quite a 
reputation for making it among their friends 
who often declare how unsuccessful their 
own efforts have been, and that to succeed 
is a gift. It is not as a novelty, therefore, 
that the manner of making it is given here, 
but that those who believe they have not 
the ''magic fingers" may take courage and 
try again. 

First of all let me explain what seems to 
puzzle many. I have been frequently asked, 
'' How much oil can I use to two eggs V^ the 
answer is, "As much as you choose;" or, 
again, " How many eggs ought I to take to 
a quart of oil ?" again the answer is, '' One, 
two, three, or four." The egg is only a 
foundation, and mayonnaise will " come " no 
better with two yolks than one, although 
some chefs consider it keeps better when 
two eggs are used to a pint of oil. 

A cool room is always insisted on for mak- 



44 CHOICE COOKERY. 

ing the sauce, but to the amateur I say, oil, 
eggs, and bowl also, should be put in the ice- 
box until well chilled, and even then mishaps 
may come from using a warm spoon from a 
hot kitchen drawer or closet ; that, therefore, 
must be cool also. Of course it is often suc- 
cessfully made Avith only the usual precau- 
tion of a cool room, but with everything 
w^ell chilled it is hard to fail. 

If very little of the sauce is wanted, one 
yolk of egg will be better than two. Sepa- 
rate the yolks very carefully, allowing not a 
speck of white to remain ; remove also the 
germ which is attached to the yolk. jStu' 
the yolk at least a mimUe before beginning to 
add oil ; then arrange your bottle or a sharp- 
spouted pitcher in your left hand so that it 
rests on the edge of the bowl, and you can 
keep up a pretty steady drop, drop, into the 
egg^ w^hile you stir with your right steadily. 
The oil must be added drop by drop, but 
this does not mean a drop every two or 
three minutes ; you may add a drop to every 



COLD SAUCES. 45 

one or two circuits of tlie spoon. The rea- 
son for adding it slowly is that each drop 
may form an emulsion with the egg before 
more goes in. After two or three minutes 
look carefully at the mixture ; if it has not« 
begun to look pale and opaque, but retains a 
dark, oil}^ appearance, stir it steadily for two 
minutes, and then add oil slowl}^, drop by 
drop, stirring all the time. If it has not now 
begun to thicken, it probably will not ; but 
the materials are not lost. Put the yolk of 
another egg into a cool bowl, and begin 
again using the egg and oil you have already 
mixed, in place of fresh oil. When this is 
all used, proceed with the oil (it is hoped, 
however, that the work will have proceeded 
without the necessity for beginning afresh). 
When the mayonnaise becomes quite thick, 
use a few drops of vinegar to thin it ; then 
more oil, until sufficient sauce is made. Then 
white j)epper and salt should be added for 
seasoning. The vinegar used should be very 
strong, so that very little of it will be suffi- 



46 CHOICE COOKERY. 

cient to give the necessary acidity, without 
making it too thin. This is especially the 
case when the sauce is required to mask 
salad. It should for this purpose be set on 
ice until firm, but in all cases be kept cold. 
The best mayonnaise, left in a warm kitchen, 
would separate and become oily. The stir- 
ring must be steady and constant, and the 
task must not be left until completed. 

Mayonnaise is the basis of several other 
sauces, so that in accomplishing it a great 
deal is done. 

Green mayonnaise is made by dropping a 
bunch of parsley into boiling water, aud in a 
minute or two, when it becomes intensely 
green, take it up, pound it in a mortar, and 
then through a sieve. Use as much pulp as 
will color the sauce a delicate green. 

Eed mayonnaise, used for cardinal salad 
and other purposes, is made by pounding 
lobster coral very fine and stirring it in. It 
must not be forgotten that anything added 
to mavonnaise must be ice-cold. 



COLD SAUCES. 47 

Aspic ')nayo7inaise is another form of the 
sauce, used in dressing cold dishes, and while 
more delicious than the usual sauce, "svill keep 
its form for hours after the dish is dressed. 
It is absolutely necessary to prepare it on 
ice. Put half a pint of stiff aspic jelly into 
a bowl set in cracked ice, whisk it with an 
egg-beater until it is a white froth (usually 
the motion will melt it, but to save labor it 
may be set in lukewarm water to soften, 
then beaten, but no oil must be added until 
it is again ice-cold froth) ; then beat in very 
gradually a quarter of a pint of olive oil 
and a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, pro- 
ceeding with the same care as for the usual 
ma3"onnaise ; add a saltspoonful of salt, a 
pinch of pepper, and the same of powdered 
sugar. 

Noricegian sauce is preferred by many to 
Tartare for some purposes, and is made by 
ixA(Six\gfreslily grated horseradish to mayon- 
naise in the proportion of two tablespoonf uls 
to half a pint. 



48 CHOICE COOKEEY. 

Tartare sauce is mayonnaise with the ad- 
dition of mustard, chives, pickles, and tarra- 
gon, chopped. As usually served, it has only 
mustard and capers or chopped cucumber, 
but for those to whom a slight flavor of 
onion is not disagreeable, chives should be 
added. To half a pint of mayonnaise use a 
teaspoonful of dry mustard mixed Avith two 
of tarragon vinegar, then stir into the sauce. 
To this add a tablespoonful either of capers 
or chopped pickled cucumber; this is the 
usual Tartare sauce ; but the French recipe 
is a tablespoonful of very finely chopped 
chives, a teaspoonful each of fresh tarragon 
and chervil in place of the pickles. 

Cold cucinnber sauce is mayonnaise wnth 
an equal quantity of grated cucumber, 
drained, pressed, and stirred into it, with a 
saltspoonful of salt and a few drops of very 
strono^ vineo^ar. 

Horseradish sauce is a very good sauce for 
hot or cold beef, roast or boiled. Grate three 
tablespoonfuls of horseradish fine, put to it 



COLD SAUCES. 49 

a teaspoonf ul of sugar, one of salt, and one 
of vinegar, or a tablespoonful of Chablis 
wine ; let them soak an hour or two, and the 
last thino: before serving; stir in four table- 
spoonfuls of cream that is whipped very 
solid. A half-teaspoonful of dry mustard is 
sometimes mixed Avith the horseradish, but 
that is a matter of taste. When the sauce 
is to be served hot, two yolks of egg and 
two tablespoonfuls of water must be substi- 
tuted for cream, which would curdle. The 
water, horseradish, etc., must first come to 
the boiling-point, then the eggs added grad- 
ually, and just allowed to thicken, not to 
boil. 

3fint Sauce. — Take only the young, tender 
leaves, not a bit of stem, and chop very fine 
indeed. To two tablespoonfuls add a table- 
spoonful and a half of brown sugar and three 
of vinegar. It should be quite thick, not as 
we so often see it — vinegar vnth a few bits 
of mint floating around. 

Mint Jelly for masking cold lamb or cut- 
4 



Oft CHOTCS COD¥mT. 

lets. — T^ke two tabl(esiiM>xi>aiuks ot Spanish 
ssinc^. iinii tibsolre in it a good t<es^spoonful 
of gelatine softenenl in eokl stock, a table- 
spoonfttl of aspie^ ^^mi one of thick mint 
sance. If no aspic is ready, it is not worth 
while to make for the small quantity nee<tle<Li ; 
a teaspoonM of glaze^ two of gelatine, and 
half a wines^lass of Santeme maT be dis> 
solvetl together to take its places No gela- 
tine wiM be needed with the Spanish sstoce 
in this case. 

Sweet sanees wiH "be "left xtnti} the tit^^serts 
are treated of. 



VI. 
SOUPS. 

It is not proposed to gire the soaps to be 
found readily in most cooking-books in these 
pages, but only those less known or of pecul- 
iar excellence. 

It is supposed that the reader understands 
the making of good beef or veal stocky and 
perhaps the usual way of clearing iL But 
since cooking has been studied scientifically, 
improvements on methods have been intro- 
duced ; one of these is the clearing of soup 
with albumen of nheat instead of egg. The 
advantages of this method are that the soup 
is strengthened and the flavor improved, while 
clearinc: with whites of e«rsrs in the usual wav, 
though greatly improving the appearance, 
tends to lessen the flavor of soup. 

To dear Conmnime with Beef. — Clon- 



53 CHOICE COOKEKY. 

somme is reduced stock, or stock made of ex- 
tra strength. Carefully remove all fat from 
three pints of it when cold. It will, of course, 
be a stiff jelly. Chop fine an onion, a carrot, 
and a turnip. Chop half a pound of lean beef 
from which all fat is removed ; this is best 
put through a chopping-machine, as it must 
be very fine. Put the consomme, meat, and 
vegetables into a saucepan. Stir them brisk- 
ly till just on the boiling-point. Eemove the 
spoon, let the soup boil up well one minute. 
It should now be clear. Take a clean cloth, 
fix it on a soup stand or in a colander, pour 
boiling water through it, to warm it thorough- 
ly ; throw the water away, and pour the soup 
gently through the cloth twice ; do not press 
or stir it. It will be beautifully clear and of 
excellent color. It is now ready to serve for 
a variety of soups, named according to what 
is served in them. 

Consomme d la Rachel. — This is consomme 
to which is added tiny quenelles made in egg- 
spoons, and colored red, green, and black. 



SOUPS. 53 

Quenelle meat is made from the uncooked 
breast of chicken or game, the backs of hares 
or rabbits (or it maj be made for certain 
purposes of fish or very white veal), first 
chopped, and then pounded in a mortar until 
it is a perfectly smooth paste. Mere chopped 
meat is not what is required ; it must be 
fine enough to go through a sieve. For 
Consomme a la Rachel, however, the breast 
of chicken is necessary. Take four ounces 
of chicken, free from skin and sinew; pound 
it until quite smooth ; the more it is pounded 
the better it is. Mix with it thick cream, a 
scant saltspoonful of salt, very little pepper, 
and half a beaten egg, until it is a softish 
paste, yet firm enough to mould ; mix thor- 
oughly. jS'ow try a little by poaching in a 
teaspoon; that is, fill a teaspoon with the 
mixture, pressing it in form, then drop it into 
boiling water for three minutes. Open the 
quenelle and taste it ; if it is creamy, light, 
and well flavored, it is right, but if there is 
the least toughness, add a little more cream 



54 CHOICE COOKERY. 

to the mixture. Notice also the seasoning; 
if more salt is needed, add it carefully, and 
try again, till you have the quenelle mixture 
just right, that is to say, creamy, light, very 
tender, yet keeping its form. At present 
quenelles as entrees or for soups form such 
an important part of fine cooking that it is 
worth while to get the mixture perfect for 
other purposes than the present. 

Having your quenelle meat ready, proceed 
to vary it as follows, allowing one quenelle 
of each color to each guest : For the green 
quenelles use sufficient pounded tarragon to 
color one third the meat delicately. For the 
second use sufficient lobster coral pounded to 
redden it. The third must be made dark 
with pounded truffles. Great care must be 
taken to keep the three portions separate, so 
that one color may not injure the other. To 
form them use two very small cofiPeespoons 
or eggspoons, as the quenelles should not be 
larger than small olives ; butter the spoons 
slightly, and when formed drop each for one 



SOUPS. 55 

or two minutes into boiling pale-colored stock. 
Drop them, as they are done, into cold water, 
in which they must be kept until you are 
ready to use them. When the soup is to be 
served, drain them, lay the number required 
in the tureen, and pour the boiling consomme 
on them. They will not require heating in 
the soup. It may be observed that raw spin- 
ach pounded and rubbed through a sieve, 
and boiled red beet, may be used to color 
the meat green and red, and the rest left 
white. The consomme is then called Con- 
somme d' Orleans. 

Consomme aux (Eufs files. — Put one quart 
of cleared consomme to boil. Hix one ^gg., 
one dessertspoonful of flour, one tablespoon- 
ful of milk, a pinch between forefinger and 
thumb of salt, and a dust of pepper, into a 
batter, rub a nutmeg once back and forth 
over the grater, and stir. When the soup 
boils, pass this batter through a fine strainer 
into it. It should look like threads. 

Consomme a la Sevigne. — Pound two 



56 CHOICE COOKERY. 

ounces of breast of cooked chicken until it 
will pass through a ^ride sieve. Mix with it 
two eggs, three tablespoonfuls of milk, 
twelve drops of almond essence, a scant 
saltspoonful of salt, as much nutmeg as will 
go on the end of a penknife blade, and a dust 
of cayenne. When well blended, fill three or 
four small round muffin pans, w^ell greased, 
and steam slowly twenty minutes, or until 
set. Turn out very carefully ; let them cool ; 
then cut them into fancy shapes, and serve 
in one quart of boiling consomme. A few 
asparagus points boiled until just tender, but 
not mushy, are to be dropped in the last 
thing. 

Potage a la Hollandaise. — For this Avill be 
required one quart of veal or chicken stock, 
two ounces of butter, one ounce of flour, four 
yolks of eggs, half a pint of cream, one gill 
of green peas, one gill of boiled cari^ots, one 
gill of boiled cucumber, one teaspoonful of 
fresh tarragon chopped fine, one teaspoonful 
of sugar, and one teaspoonful of salt. Trim 



SOUPS. 57 

the carrots and cucumber ^vith a very small 
scoop or cutter the size and shape of peas ; 
cook them just tender, and no more, in boil- 
ing water. Put the stock on to boil ; skim 
if necessary ; add the salt and sugar. Break 
the eggs into a bowl, add the cream to them, 
and beat them till Avell mixed. This forms 
a " liaison." Make the butter and flour into 
a paste in a bowl, pour half a gill of cold 
stock to it, then enough hot stock to dissolve 
it ; wdien mixed smooth, stir it into the boil- 
ing stock, let it boil, then remove from the 
fire, and stir in very carefully, to prevent 
curdling, the liaison of eggs and cream ; let 
it come to the boiling-point, but not boil, or 
it w411 curdle. Strain it into a clean stew- 
pan, and add the vegetables ; let all get hot 
together ; then strew in the tarragon. 

Chestnut Soup {puree de marrons), — SHt 
twenty-five large chestnuts at each end, put 
them in boiling water, and boil ten minutes. 
Drop them into cold water, and remove both 
the outer and inner skin. Melt three ounces 



58 CHOICE COOKERY. 

of butter in a saucepan, put in the chestnuts, 
and saute (toss them about) for a few minutes, 
but do not brown them ; then add a pint and 
a half of rich white stock, and let the nuts 
boil in it until very tender, when they must 
be rubbed through a fine sieve. Boil up 
again, add half a pint of cream, a teaspoonf ul 
of powdered sugar, a teaspoonf ul of salt (less 
if the stock be salted), and a pinch of pepper. 
Princess Souj). — Cut a chicken in pieces ; 
wash it ; butter a stewpan, put in the chick- 
en with a blade of mace, an onion, a bay- 
leaf, and twelve white peppercorns. Let this 
simmer, closely covered, ten minutes, shaking 
it often to prevent its browning ; then put to 
it two quarts of hot veal stock, and simmer 
one hour. Put into another stewpan two 
ounces of flour and two ounces of butter; 
stir them together, and let them bubble once, 
then strain the liquor from the chicken to it ; 
stir well, and cook a few minutes. Take the 
white meat from the bones of the chicken, 
pound it in a mortar very fine, stir it to the 



SOUPS. 59 

stock, then rub through a soup strainer ; add 
just before serving half a pint of fresh cream 
and the juice of half a lemon. This soup 
must be made hot, but not boil, after the 
chicken pulp and cream are added. 

Potage d la Boyale. — Boil two ounces of 
macaroni till tender, but not broken ; throw 
it into cold water. Put three pints of white 
stock to boil ; cut the macaroni into lengths 
half an inch long ; beat three yolks of eggs 
in a bowl Avith a gill of cream; throw the 
macaroni into the soup ; when it boils, re- 
move from the fire, add the cream and eggs 
and an ounce of grated Parmesan cheese; 
stir till the soup reaches the boiling-point, 
but by no means let it boil, after the cream 
and eggs are added, or it will be spoiled. 
Salt soup always in the j)roportion of a mod- 
erate teaspoonful of salt to the quart ; if the 
stock is seasoned, only add salt for the cream, 
eggs, etc. Use just a suspicion of cayenne. 
In making soup to Avhich eggs are added, 
the utmost care is required, yet not any more 



tJinn ill iiiJikin^ custjird. TIk^ iiiniii poiiil is 
1() Id. 1 lie ctTiTf^ coinc ncni' (Mioiii"!! lo 1 lir hoil- 
in;^'-|)()iiil lo llii('k<'ii, ycl r;ii' ciioii^li from il, 
not, to ciiinllc. Tliis ;i, lit lie |>jiti(;nc<5 will jk;- 
coiiiplisli hy \v;it;(;liiii^' .'ind I'diioviiii;- tlio 
SJiii(;('|);m for ji, low socmukIs ns llic hoilin^- 
|)oinl; ;i.|)|)ro;i('Ji('S, tiu^ii i'(;tiirniM^' it; do this 
oMcc or t \vi('(\ till tlu^ o))a(jU(», crciimy ;i|)))(5;ir- 
anco si lows the eggs arc done. 



YJI. 

KISII KNTKI'^KS. 

Tn8Tkai> of <^iviii^' recipes lor cooking fish 
wholes, for wliicJi (jxcolloMt directions tire to 
ho foiiiid ill several irioder'n eookery books, 
recipes lor lisli entrees Avill l)e substituted. 
Tli(\y JU'<^ MOW IVeipieiitly served at the lish 
courses, and by their convenience and econ- 
omy, ;is well as tlu^ variety they ad'ord, ai'e 
likely to ^fow in faN'or. Another point foi' 
tluMri is that they caii often be made lioiii's 
bc^fore, and simj)ly lieated when n(M'de<l, thus 
n^iievini;' the cook of (he most critical part 
(►r her work at the lime when she; needs her 
atteiilioii [yoo. 

Some of 1 hese entrees will be more suited 
for breakfast, luncheon, oi" siipjxM" dishes than 
to precede a heavy diniu'i*, such, for instance, 
as tlie pn^parations of oysters when they 



62 CHOICE COOKERY. 

have been also served before soup; but the 
recipes are included here for their intrinsic 
worth. 

Fillets of Cod d la Normande. — Butter a 
tin dish, lay on it three slices of cod moder- 
ately thick (an inch to an inch and a half), 
pour over them one wineglass of Avhite wine, 
place a buttered paper over them, and bake 
in a moderate oven fifteen minutes. Eeduce 
another glass of wine in a stewpan by sim- 
mering, add to it half a pint of white sauce, 
twelve small oysters, bearded and blanched, 
twelve small quenelles,* and twelve button 
mushrooms. Season with pepper and salt. 
Simmer one minute only, or the oysters will 
harden. Place the slices of fish on a hot 
dish, pour the sauce over them, place the 
oysters, mushrooms, and quenelles in groups 
in the corners of the dish. 

Lobster Soiifflees. — Cut up the meat of a 
boiled hen lobster into neat dice, showing as 

* See Quenelles in No. VI. 



FISH ENTREES. 63 

much of the red as possible. Prepare as 
many small ramekin or soufflee cases as 
may be required by pinning bands of writ- 
ing-paper round them two to three inches 
higher than the case. Take three table- 
spoonfuls of mayonnaise, half a pint of stiff 
aspic jelly, and a gill of tomato sauce in 
which a teaspoonful of gelatine has been 
dissolved. Every utensil used must be ice- 
cold, the jelly must be quite cold, but not set. 
Put the tomato sauce, the jelly, and the may- 
onnaise (which should be left on the ice till 
the last thing) into a bowl set in another 
bowl of pounded ice ; whisk them togetlier 
until they begin to look white ; then stir the 
lobster in it, with a teaspoonful of very fine- 
ly chopped chervil and tarragon; fill the 
soufflee cases, piling the dressing high ; 23ut 
them on a dish on ice. When they are " set," 
carefully remove the paper bands, sprinkle a 
little dried and sifted lobster coral over the 
tops, and serve. 

Coquilles of Prawns. — Pick the shells 



64 CHOICE COOKERY. 

from four dozen prawns; mix Avith one 
third the quantity of mushrooms slightly 
stewed in a tablespoonful of butter and a 
saltspoonful of salt (the mushrooms must 
not be brown) ; add four tablespoonf uls of 
Allemande sauce ;* fill the shells, w^hich must 
be w^ell buttered, dress each over with fine 
bread crumbs which have been carefully fried 
a golden brown ; put them in a cool oven 
twenty minutes, only get thoroughly hot, 
but not to cook. 

Coquilles of Salmon or Halibut. — Take 
one pound of cold halibut or salmon ; break 
it into small pieces; put it in a stewpan 
w^ith half a saltspoonful of salt and a tiny 
pinch of pepper, and half a pint of white 
sauce, a tablespoonful of very thick cream, 
and a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce; stir 
well, and let all get hot. Butter some shells, 
sprinkle over with a few fried crumbs, fill 
with the mixture, cover w^th the fried 

* See directions in No. II. 



FISH ENTEEES. 65 

crumbs, and put them in the oven to get 
thoroughly hot. Serve on a napkin. 

Salmon en Pajnllotes.—Cwi some sUces of 
sahnon into cutlets the right size for serving, 
make paper cases to fit them, then cover 
each slice with the following mixture : two 
tablespoonfuls of salad oil beaten with the 
yolk of an egg, one teaspoonful of parsley 
chopped, one shallot chopped, and one an- 
chovy (all these must be chopped as finely 
as possible), a half-saltspoonful of salt, and 
a grain of cayenne ; mix, spread on the fish, 
envelop each piece in a well-buttered case, 
fasten up (by pinching the paper well), and 
bake half an hour. Serve in the papers. 

Fillet of Sole a la Norinande. — In speak- 
ing of sole, one of course means the flounder, 
which is coming to be called the American 
sole, and when filleted does make a fair sub- 
stitute for the real thing,, and it is suitable 
for cooking in every way that the English 
sole can be used, except whole. A boiled 
flounder without filleting, or a flounder fried 
5 



66 CHOICE COOKERY. 

whole, as is so often done with sole, would 
be very coarse. Fillet two flounders (in 
cities this will be done by the fishmonger, 
but in the country it may have to be done 
in the kitchen, therefore directions for doing 
it will be appended), lay the fillets, neatly 
trimmed and shaped, into a thickly buttered 
pan or dish — either fire-proof porcelain or 
any other that can go to table — pour over 
them a glass of sherry and four tablespoon- 
ful3 of consomme ; cover with oiled paper, 
and bake ten minutes in a moderate oven ; 
take out the pan, pour over the fillets half a 
pint of sauce Normande / return to the oven 
for five minutes, and serve in the pan. 

Sole a Vllorly. — Make a frying batter 
thus: mix one tablespoonful of milk with 
two ounces of flour and a tablespoonful of 
salad oil to a smooth paste ; then add two 
yolks of eggs, and the whites whipped firm, 
with a quarter of a salts]30onful of salt ; mix 
with an ujiward movement of the spoon, so 
as not to deaden the whites of eggs. Set it 



FISH ENTREES. 67 

aside while you prepare the sole. Mix a 
tablespoonful of salad oil, a teaspoonful of 
Chili vinegar, a teaspoonful of tarragon vine- 
gar, a teaspoonful of parsley and one of onion 
chopped exceedingly fine, a scant saltspoon- 
f ul of salt, and a quarter one of pepper. Mix 
all together, then cut the fillets in half, trim- 
ming away all ragged appearance, and lay 
them for fifteen minutes in the mixture 
(called a marinade) ; take them out, drain 
them on a sieve, and then dip each fillet in 
the batter. This batter should be just thick 
enough to coat the fish and run slowly off, 
not cling in a thick paste round it. A French 
rule for testing the thickness of frying batter 
is to dip a spoon in it and then let a drop run 
off the end on a plate ; if it drops freely, yet 
keeps a beadlike form, it is right. Fry each 
fillet in a ^vire basket three minutes in very 
hot deep fat. Serve with fried parsley. 

Turbans of Sole a la Rouennaise. — As 
these require a little of the same mixture as 
would be used for lobster cutlets or cro- 



68 CHOICE COOKERY. 

quettes, it is good management to have them 
when lobster is required for something else. 
The mixture for the cutlets is made as fol- 
lows (less than a fourth of it would be re- 
quired for the turbans) : remove all the flesh 
from a boiled hen lobster; chop it small; 
wash, dry, and pound the coral, with an 
ounce of butter ; take one gill of white sauce, 
mix the lobster coral and a tablespoonful of 
cream with it, and boil five minutes ; mix in 
the lobster with a little salt (unless the lob- 
ster is salt enough) and a grain of cayenne. 
This made into cutlets, egged, crumbed, and 
fried, is excellent, but our purpose now is to 
use it for stuffing. Take as many fillets of 
sole as required, spread the lobster mixture 
on each, roll them up, run a toothpick 
through them to keep them in shape ; trim 
till each will stand ; put them on a buttered 
baking-sheet, cover with buttered paper, and 
bake ten minutes. Chop up two truffles, two 
hard-boiled yolks of eggs, and a tablespoon- 
ful of parsley, each chopped separately. Take 



FISH ENTKEES. 69 

up the turbans, pour over them half a pint of 
cardinal sauce, and ornament the turbans, 
one with the truffles, one with the yolk of 
egg, and one with parsley ; so on alternateh^ 
DiTections for Filleting Flounders. — Take 
a sharp knife, cut away the fins all round the 
fish, and split the flounder right down the 
middle of the back, then run the knife care- 
fully between the flesh and bones, going tow- 
ards the edge. You have now detached 
one quarter of the flesh from the bone ; do 
the other half in the same way, and when 
the back is thus entirely loose from the bone, 
turn the fish over and do the same with the 
other side. You will now find you can re- 
move the bone whole from the fish, detach- 
ing, as you do so, any flesh still retaining the 
bone. Then you have two halves of the fish, 
and you have four quarters of solid fish. To 
remove the skin, take the tail end firmly be- 
tween the thumb and forefinger of the left 
hand, hold the skin side downward on the 
board, and with your knife make an incision 



70 CHOICE COOKERY. 

across the flesh, then, keeping the skin firm- 
ly between your thumb and finger, imsK the 
knife between it and the flesh, shghtly hu- 
moring it to prevent tearing the flesh. The 
skin parts quite easily, but no attempt must 
be made to cut the fish from it. 



YIII. 

VARIOUS WAYS OF SERVING OYSTERS. 

Oysters a la Yilleroi. — Scald (or blanch) 
some large oysters, dry them, then drop 
them into some "very thick Yilleroi sauce,* let 
them get hot in it, but not boil. Take them 
out one by one ; be sure they are thickly coat- 
ed with the sauce ; have a large dish heaped 
with sifted crumbs or cracker meal ; as you 
lift each oyster from the sauce lay it on the 
meal, turn it gently over in the meal, so that 
a light coat adheres, and the sauce is by no 
means rubbed off. Place them on an oiled 
plate where they will get quite cold, so that 
the sauce may chill and form a whitish glaze 
under the crumbs. Beat two eggs with two 
tablespoonf uls of water, and when free from 

* See No. II. 



72 CHOICE COOKERY. 

strings dip each oyster in the egg, using a 
small fork ; let superfluous egg drip off for a 
moment, then lay the oyster again on a deep 
bed of cracker crumbs, cover well, pat very 
gently, and lay each as you do it on a dish 
sprinkled with them. Fry two minutes in 
very hot deep fat, being careful the oysters 
do not touch each other. 

If I have made these directions as clear as 
I hope, it Avill be understood that each oyster 
has a rich creamy coating under the crumbs, 
and every effort must be made to avoid break- 
ing the outer shell of egg and crumb. For 
this reason the fat should be heated to 400°. 
But although great care in handling is neces- 
sary, they are not difficult to succeed with 
when that care is given. 

Oyster Kcibohs. — There are two ways of 
preparing these dainties, and I give both. 
For those who cannot eat bacon the first Avill 
probably be acceptable. For kabobs of any 
kind, silver or plated skeAvers are proper, al- 
though very slender wooden ones may be 



VAKIOrS WAYS OF SERVING OYSTERS. 73 

used. Put in a stewpan a small onion chopped 
%^ery jine, a dessertspoonful of jDarsley, and a 
dozen mushrooms, also chopped ; let these fry 
one minute in a large tablespoonful of but- 
ter, add a dessertspoonful (scant) of flour, 
stir all together, then drop in as many fat 
oysters as are required ; they must have been 
blanched in their own liquor and the beards 
removed ; stir all round, and add three beat- 
en yolks of eggs, one at a time, taking care 
they do not curdle, but get just thick enough 
to cling round the oyster. String six oys- 
ters on each little skewer, basting with the 
sauce wherever it does not adhere ; let each 
skewer cool, then roll the whole in beaten 
eggs and abundant cracker meal, so that the 
skewer will seem to be run through a sausage 
lengthwise. Fry tAvo minutes in very hot 
deep fat, serve on a napkin ; allow one skew- 
er to each person. Two minutes, if the fat 
be sufficiently hot, will fry oysters a pale 
yellow-brown. They should never take long- 
er than this, for oysters harden and shrink if 



74 CIIOIOK COOKKKY. 

overdone; in IIk; I(;jist. For this njason tlio 
use of a [)yronieter, when possible, saves mis- 
takes and troid;le. Su(;li artieh3S as oysters, 
siri(;lts, or }i,ny small thin<(S, should h(; fri(;d 
id a t(;n)))eratur(; of .'iSO'^ to 4()()'\ It must 
be r(;mem})er(Ml that ;ill iri(;d artieh^s darken 
after they leave; the fryin^-k(;ttl(;, and there- 
fore a very pnh; y(;lIo\v beeom(;s a golden 
color on tin; dish. 

Kdhohn No. '2. 'J'his is tin; reeijx; ^ive^n by 
th(; juithor of the; \v(;ll-known rytehl(;y Hooks, 
and is admirable;. Take; the f)eards from ;j,s 
many fat, fair-sized oysters as recjuired. You 
re(juire bacon of which the fat is thick enough 
throuuh to Jillow of (;ircles beinf^cut from tin; 
slic(;s as hir^c; n,s the; oysters. VaA tin; bjicon 
Vi'X)! thin, ^et a cutt(;r the size; of tin; oysters, 
trim tlicm with it, then cut (ti^lit cir(;lesof ba- 
con for six oyst(;rs. Tut first a y)i(;ce of ba- 
con, th(;ii Jin oyst(;r, then more, biicon, on cju^h 
little skew(;r, till tli(;r(; are six oysters with 
ji; |)i(;(;(; of bacon between each through tlx; 
centre and one at (;ach end ; string them ^va^j 



VARIOUS WAYS (»K SERVING OYSTERS. 75 

evenly. Tjiki^ ;i vei'y little cayeniu^ on tlu^ 
tip of 51 knilV^ and a, saltspoonl'ul of salt; 
mix this with two beaten e^'^-s to which two 
tal)les[)0()nt'uls of water have Ikhmi added. 
]^ip each skewer of kabobs in this ; let them 
drip ail instant, then lay them on a dee]) bed 
of erunibs oi' cracker meal. Cover tlu^m thor- 
oughly, shak(5 theui, then dip a<;'ain into th(^ 
egg (if this has becomes full of criinibs strain 
it), and again lay them in the meal. Shaken 
lightly again, and arrange each skewer of ka- 
bobs in a, fiying-basket, and fry two minutes. 
1 ha.V(^ spoken in the foregoing directions 
for "crumbing'' of using plenty of meal, and 
cx])erienco tells me that tlu^ I'uh^ with those 
unfamiliar willi propn* methods is to usi^ so 
little that a plateful would be considei'ed 
plriifij. With this (piantity no good woi'k 
can 1)(^ (l()iH\ ^'ou need to turn on to a, 
board oi' dish at h\Mst a, (piart of ciMMubs, or 
a, wholes i)ox of cracker meal. This will (mi- 
ablo you to smother tlu^ article until (^\(.'vy 
part is covered, instead of s|)rinkling a little 



76 CHOICE COOKEEY. 

over and under (which generally falls off as 
fast as put on, and leaves a surface yellow 
with egg in parts), as you must do if a small 
quantity only is used. All the meal that is 
left must be carefully sifted and put away. 
If the small masses of egg and crumb which 
will be mixed with it are not sifted out the 
cracker-meal cannot be used again. There 
must also be plenty of egg used for dipping. 
Oysters in Aspic. — For these dariole moulds 
are needed, or the small fire-proof china souf- 
flee cases which imitate paper may be used. 
A dariole is a small straight-sided tin mould, 
holding rather less than a gill. They will 
be found at large house-furnishing stores, or 
a tinman could easily make them, they be- 
ing, in fact, like deep corn-muffin pans. If 
they are made to order, avoid getting them 
too large — three inches deep by two across 
will be large enough. Fill these moulds with 
aspic jelly nearly cold, set them on ice while 
you prepare the oysters, which must be beard- 
ed and cooked till plump in butter, but not 



VAKIOUS WAYS OF SERVING OYSTERS. 77 

allowed to color. When cool, cut them in 
half, throw them into some stiff bechamel,'^ 
which must be warmed till like thick cream, 
sprinkle with a dust of ca3^enne ; lay the oys- 
ters to get cold, that the bechamel may hard- 
en on th^m. Scoop the centre very careful- 
ly out of the moulds of aspic, leaving a half- 
inch thickness all round, fill the centres with 
the oysters, pour in more aspic, cold, but not 
set, and put on ice for a few hours, or till 
ready to serve. The aspic from the centres 
should have been preserved and used to chop 
w^ith more to garnish the dish. Turn the 
moulds out ver}^ carefully, and garnish with 
chopped aspic and watercress or parslej'^. 

It is, of course, understood that bechamel 
sauce, cold, is like blanc-mange, and that any- 
thing coated with it will be enveloped in wliite 
jelly, not in a sticky white sauce. If bechamel 
does not become white jelly wlien cold the 
stock of which it is made is not stiff enouoli. 

Lobster in Af^pie is prepared as for salad, 

* See No. IT. 



78 CHOICE COOKERY. 

the solid meat cut in dice and rolled in may- 
onnaise, then in chopped chervil or parsley. 
Then proceed exactly as for the oysters. 

Oysters a la Tartare. — The oyster-shells 
for serving oysters a la Tartare must be of 
good shape and exquisitely clean ; therefore, 
when using oysters on the half-shell, always 
pick out any that may be deep yet stand 
well, and have a good shape ; scald and scrub 
them, and keep for use. Scald as many fat 
oysters as required in their own liquor till 
firm — three minutes at boiling-point will usu- 
ally do this ; the oysters must be just plump, 
yet if underdone they will be flabby. Put 
them on ice, choose as many tiny leaves as 
you have oysters from the heart of a lettuce ; 
they must all be of a size, or trimmed so, and 
the size onlv just large enough to line the 
shells without coming over them. Lay a 
leaf on each shell, cut each oyster in half, 
lay four halves in pyramid fashion on the 
lettuce leaf, and mask the top of each, just 
before serving, with Tartare sauce. Allow 
two to each person. 



IX. 

VARIOUS CULINARY MATTERS. 

This little book does not pretend to go into 
what may be called the principles of cooking, 
except in so far as they are involved in the 
production of all choice cookery ; and where 
it is considered that a principle is little known 
or too little attended to, the effort will be 
made to give it emphasis by reiteration here. 

By principles of cooking I mean the sim- 
ple rules by which roasting, boiling, stew- 
ing, etc., are successfully accomplished. Any 
book or series of articles written a dozen 
years ago would have been of no real use 
without these rudiments, but within that pe- 
riod there have been cooking-schools start- 
ed and cookery books written so exceeding- 
ly exact in directions that it will be unneces- 
sary to repeat them in " Choice Cookery," 



80 CHOICE COOKERY. 

which does not pretend to include family 
cooking. 

For this reason the cooking of joints of 
meat will not be entered into. Nevertheless 
there are certain rudiments of cooking which 
are not dwelt on usually in hooks. They are 
taught in the cooking-schools, and those of 
my readers who have had the advantage of 
attending them will not need the instruction 
here given. But I meet with many women 
who devote much time to the art of cooking, 
and who have taught themselves by book and 
experiment all they know, who yet, when told 
to chop a small quantity of herbs very fine, 
wiU struggle and chop almost leaf by leaf in 
their faithful endeavor to carry out the di- 
rection. Others, less faithful, finding their 
method chops some parts fine and leaves 
some leaves almost whole, let it go at that, 
with the reflection that " that must do, as it 
would take all day " to get them all one de- 
gree of fineness. So, although it may seem 
almost too trivial a point to need mention. 



VARIOUS CULINARY MATTERS. 81 

we will go into the matter of herb-chopping, 
lemon-grating, etc., that the simple opera- 
tions may be performed easily and in a very 
short time. 

To Choj) Herhs. — Use the leaves only, never 
the stems ; let them be fresh and crisp, or, 
if wilted, leave them in water for a time. 
Gather the leaves firmly between the thumb 
and three fingers of the left hand ; shave 
them through with a sharp knife as you push 
them forward under it. (The process resem- 
bles chaff-cutting by hand machine.) Turn 
them round ; gather them up again, and cut 
across them in the same way ; then finish by 
chopping quickly, holding the point of the 
knife with the left hand and bringing it doAvn 
on the little heap of herbs Avith the right, al- 
ways gathering them together as fast as the 
chopping scatters them. Five minutes will 
chop a tablespoonful of mint or parsley al- 
most to pulp. A sharp steel knife and a 
small board must be used, not the chopping- 
bowl. 
6 



82 CHOICE COOKERY. 

French books often direct so much fine 
herbs to be used ; English books mean the 
same thing when they call for " s\Yeet herbs," 
and a mixture of one part marjoram, Uyo 
parts thyme, and three parts parsley is meant 
by both. 

The grating of a lemon is a most simple 
operation, and it may seem that every one 
must know how to do it ; but this is far from 
being the case. As many dishes of curdled 
custards and sauces are caused by this fact, 
the right way in this case is very important. 
The object of using grated rind of lemon is 
to obtain the fragrance and flavor, which dif- 
fer very greatly from any extracts, however 
good. ]N'ow the whole of the oil which con- 
tains this fragrance is at the surface — is, in 
fact, the yellow portion of the rind ; therefore 
this, and only this, must be removed with 
the grater. The white part underneath is 
bitter, and will cause milk or cream to curdle, 
but it contains no particle of lemon flavor. 
Yet when lemon flavor is called for the 



VARIOUS CULINARY MATTERS. 83 

lernon is often grated right down to the pulp 
in parts, while the yellow rind is left on in 
patches. 

A lemon should be grated evenly, begin- 
ning at the end and working round it, using 
as small a surface of the grater as possible, 
to prevent waste. The habit of turning the 
lemon as you grate comes as easily as to turn 
an apple under the knife when peeling. Gen- 
erally twice across the grater and back be- 
tween each turn will remove all the essential 
oil, but, while guarding against grating too 
deeply, care must be taken to remove the 
whole of the yellow surface. A well-grated 
lemon should be exactly of the same shape as 
before, have no deep scores into the pith, and 
have an oily-looking surface. 

Perhaps before proceeding to the prepa- 
ration of the combination dishes known as 
made dishes or entrees, a few words may be 
useful to those readers whose ambition to ac- 
complish results may cause them to defeat 
their own ends. To such I would say, go 



84 CHOICE COOKERY. 

slowly ; never attempt the more difficult 
thing until the simpler one is beyond chance 
of failure. Thus in following the instructions 
in this book the wiser women will have accom- 
plished, perhaps, each week one or two things 
they may have selected, and it must not be 
forgotten the plan of the w^ork is that one 
recipe shall serve as a key to many others. 

A great many will very likely have delayed 
trying to make the sauces until the dish for 
which they will be required is given.' This is 
a mistake, because it is less annoying to fail 
with a sauce with no dish depending on it, 
than, say, when you have decided to have 
sole d la Villeroi, the soles being ready, and 
fail ^\iih the sauce. 

I hope that no failure will come to any 
one trying the recipes here given, but in 
some cases, especially in sauces thickened 
with eggs, a second's diverted attention may 
cause failure without fault of the cook. There- 
fore it is best to make single experiments 
when there is no danger of being disturbed. 



VARIOUS CULINARY MATTERS. 85 

and when there is nothing else to be attended 
to. The successful result need never be lost, 
for in the case of sauces they can be reheat- 
ed the next day in a bain-marie, or pan of 
hot water ; the same with the soups, and, in- 
deed, most other things, except soufflees and 
omelets. 

But, above all things, never try a recipe 
for the first time the day you wish it to ap- 
pear perfect on your table ; try it long be- 
fore, and if you fail, make the same thing 
over again, reading the directions very care- 
fully ; some trifling caution or precaution 
. may have escaped you. 'No one ever learns 
to draw so simple a thing as a circle who is 
discouraged at the first bad curve, and leaves 
it for easier lines. Keep on at the thing you 
select to do until you succeed, always choos- 
ing and jyerfecting the easiest thing in each 
class first. 



X. 

ENTREES. 

Fillet of Beef. — This favorite dish with 
French and Americans may be roasted whole, 
or cut so as to serve individually. To roast 
it whole, it must be trimmed perfectly round, 
and either larded or not as taste may dictate. 
A fillet weighing four pounds should be 
roasted three quarters of an hour in a sharp 
oven. It may then be served a la Chdteaiibri- ^^ ? ^ 
and by pouring over it half a pint of the sauce 
of that name, with horseradish sauce, or 
brown mushroom sauce (brown sauce with 
mushrooms added). 

To serve individually, fillets are prejiared 
in the following way : Cut a fillet into eight 
slices three quarters of an inch thick; trim 
the slices into perfect circles, all exactly the 
same size ; flatten them ; put them in a hot 



ENTREES. . 87 

pan, and saute for seven or eight minutes in 
two ounces of butter; dress them round a 
dish, and pour over them the sauce from 
which the dish will take its name. 

Filets de Boeufd la Bearnaise. — Serve w4th 
half a pint of Bearnaise sauce. 

Filets de Bmiif aux Champignons. — Dress 
as before ; leave in the centre of the dish 
room for a mound of stewed mushrooms ; 
pour over the fillets half a pint of rich brown 
sauce. Serve these dishes as soon as cooked : 
the meat is spoiled by waiting. 

I have received several letters from readers 
living w^here lobster is only to be had in cans, 
asking if there is no substitute for the coral 
in making cardinal sauce. Canned lobster 
frequently contains a great deal of coral, 
which is as good for coloring and flavoring 
as the fresh. This can only be known, how- 
ever, before opening, when the cans are of 
glass. The pulp of red beet-root jDassed 
through a sieve and added to white sauce or 
mayonnaise gives a beautiful red tint ; but 



CHOICE COOKEEY. 



the flavor, while excellent for a salad or as 
vegetal>le sauce, would be unsuitable for serv- 
ing with fish. 

Grenadines of Beef with Mushrooms and 
Poivrade Sauce. — Take as many slices of 
fillet of beef, cut three quarters of an inch 
thick, as you require. Trim them to a pear 
shape, three and a half inches long and three 
wide at the broadest part. Lard these with 
bacon, and put them into a saute pan with a 
gill of brown sauce and a glass of sherry 
(half the sauce if there are very few grena- 
dines) ; let them cook gently for fifteen min- 
utes. Dissolve a piece of glaze the size of a 
walnut by putting it in a cup Avhich is set in 
boiling water ; Avhen dissolved, take up the 
grenadines, dish them in a circle, and glaze 
them (a brush is properly used for this pur- 
pose, but the glaze can be spread w^th a knife 
dipped in hot water). Fill the centre of the 
circle with a pyramid of small mushrooms 
mixed with a gill and a half of poivrade sauce.* 

* See No. IV. 



ENTREES. 89 

Fillets of Beef cila Grande-Bretagne. — Cut 
two pounds of fillet into neat slices an inch 
thick ; slit them (with a small French boning- 
knife or small penknife) in such a w^ay that 
you form a pocket in each the mouth or 
opening of which is smaller than the pocket 
itself. This can be clone by laying the fillet 
flat on a board, laying your hand on the top 
of it, making a slit two inches wide, then 
with the point of the knife enlarging the 
slit inside, but not the entrance to it. The 
opening should extend half-way through ; 
into this put a force-meat made of horserad- 
ish sauce* and macaroni boiled and cut fine. 
The force-meat must be used sparingly, so as 
not to increase materially the thickness of 
the fillet ; fasten the opening of each with a 
wooden toothpick. Saute these fillets for 
fifteen minutes ; glaze them as directed in 
last recipe ; arrange them in a circle, with a 
pyramid of tiny potato balls in the centre. 
Pour rich brown sauce round. 

*SeeNo.V. 



90 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Mutton Cutlets a la cf Uxelles. — Cut some 
cutlets from the neck of mutton, leaving two 
bones to each, trim very caret ull\^, remove 
the upper part of one bone, split the cutlets 
without separating them at the bone, spread 
some thick d' Uxelles sauce'^ inside, fold the 
cutlets together, run a toothpick through 
them, and broil for four minutes on each side 
over a hot fire. Have a layer of chopped 
mushrooms stewed in butter in the dish, lay 
the cutlets on it, pour over some d' Uxelles 
sauce, and garnish with truffles, cut in very 
thin circles. 

Mutton Cutlets a la MUanais. — Take six 
cutlets from a neck of mutton ("French 
chops," many butchers term them), mix 
equal quantities of grated Parmesan cheese 
and cracker meal. Dip the cutlets into rich 
thick brown sauce, f then into the cracker 
and Parmesan ; shake oif loose crumbs ; dip 
them now into beaten Qgg in which a little 
salt and very finely chopped parsley and 

* See No. II. f See No. IV. 



ENTREES. 91 

chives have been mixed, and then dip them 
a second time in the Parmesan and bread 
crumbs ; drop them into a kettle of very hot 
fat ; in four minutes they will be done. Do 
not fry more than four at a time, as too many 
cool the fat. Dish them in a circle with spa- 
ghetti dressed with Parmesan in the centre. 
It seems to me just here that before giv- 
ing further recipes for fried articles I had 
better make sure that all my readers un- 
derstand the process of frying in deep fat. 
I have used the word saute too, and althoug-h 
no doubt both these processes are familiar to' 
most readers who would be likely to practise 
" Choice Cookery," for those who are not 
adepts many of the recipes would be impos- 
sible to execute. Frying, once understood, 
is so easy a process one Avonders that so few 
should excel in it. To those who are not 
sure of themselves I recommend practice. 
A couple of hours' practice and careful ob- 
servance of rules will enable a bright woman 
to fry successfully. 



92 CHOICE COOKEEY. 

For this practice you may prepare several 
different articles and fry one after the other 
— one or two very soft and creamy croquettes, 
one or two breaded articles, especially such 
as are dipped in thick sauce before being 
crumbed, etc. 

The principle on which articles that are 
very soft and creamy, underneath the sur- 
face of egg and crumbs, are fried is this : the 
creamy substances, whether rich sauce like 
d'ljxelles and Villeroi, or the cream used to 
mix croquettes, must always be made of 
stock that will jelly when cold. The sauce 
is used ^varm, and the articles are put to chill 
on ice, so that they are in a jellied condi- 
tion. Xow the fat into which they are 
plunged must be so hot that it sets the coat- 
ing of egg and crumbs, which forms a thin 
shell, as it w^ere, before the jelly has had 
time to melt ; the shell once formed, the in- 
terior cooks in the intense heat very quick- 
ly. If the fat were not hot enough, cro- 
quettes would go all to pieces, and articles 



ENTREES. 93 

coated with sauce would lose the better 
part of it. 

To fry, you require a stewpan or iron ket- 
tle ; those called Scotch kettles are best, as 
they set into the range readily. A frying- 
pan is only useful for sauteing in little fat. 
Articles to be fried must be immersed in fat, 
and no frying-pan is deep enough to do this 
safely. Put two to three pounds of clarified 
dripping or lard into the kettle, and let it get 
very hot. This will be after it ceases to 
sputter — some time after, perhaps ; but you 
must now begin to watch for smoke to rise 
from the centre. Have near you some little 
squares of bread crumb ; drop one in from 
time to time ; only when it colors immecli- 
aUly is the fat hot enough. At this point 
no time must be lost, and your frying be- 
gins. 

Of course 3^ou will have the articles you 
intend to fry right at hand. You will also 
need a large dish, in which you lay com- 
mon butcher's wrapping-paper (often called 



94 CHOICE COOKERY. 

" kitchen paper ") and a perforated skimmer 
— some like a frying -basket, and for very 
small things it is an assistance; but for 
croquettes, cutlets, etc., it is not necessar}^ : 
they can be laid on the skimmer and 
dropped in the fat. 

The easiest and safest way to fry is to 
use a cooking thermometer (pyrometers or 
frimometers they are sometimes called), 
and let the fat be 380° for croquettes, 
oysters, and articles that only require two 
minutes' cooking ; 360° for cutlets and heav- 
ier articles. 

The time required for articles to cook in 
the frying-kettle seems astonishingly short. 
For instance, a breaded chop will be cooked 
to a medium degree in two and a half min- 
utes, well done in three minutes ; but it must 
be i^emembered the heat is intense. Cro- 
quettes must never be left longer than two 
minutes, while whitebait (which, however, 
require special instruction to fry without 
getting them into a cake) need less than a 



ENTREES. 95 

minute. Potatoes require longer than most 
things; but the fat need not be cooler at 
first, as would seem necessary, because they 
are so full of water, even when well dried, 
that they cool, the fat rapidly. 

Sauteing (a word that would be expressive 
of the process in English would be a boon 
to writers on cooking). — The process gener- 
ally meant by "frying" is really sauteing; 
yet so general has been the misconception 
among all but professed cooks, that one has 
to take the precaution in giving directions 
for frying to sa}^, " Fry in deej> fat." It 
ought to be understood that to fry is to im- 
tnerse in hot fat. If some term suitable for 
kitchen use could be found, half the difficul- 
ty would be over. In old English books a 
very fair translation was used; they told 
3^ou to "toss the article in butter," but 
though it rendered saute "jump" fairly, it 
did not express the process. There is neither 
tossing nor jumping about it, unless an occa- 
sional shake to the pan be called so ; and as 



96 CHOICE COOKERY. 

" flat frying," " dry frying," are awkward, 
the sooner we boldly take saute into com- 
mon use, and let it become a kitchen word 
as familiar as fricassee (which surely must 
have been very unfamiliar once), the better. 
To saute — although every Bridget or 
Gretchen fancies she can do it — requires 
nicety and care to do it well, and is far more 
difficult than "frying in deep fat." The 
pan requires to be hot, also the fat or butter 
used, which should cover the bottom of the 
pan ; a bright fire is required. Things that 
take long to cook require more fat than 
those that require but a short time. Effort 
must be made to adjust the proportion, as 
adding cold fat prevents browning. Yeal 
cutlets and many other things are far better 
sauted than fried. The articles sauted re- 
quire to be watched that they do not burn : 
yet they must not be too often turned, or 
they will not brown — except, of course, such 
things as are chopped, which require fre- 
quent stirring up. 



p:NTBii:Es. 97 

In speaking of chilling articles coated 
with sauce to be fried, I omitted to give the 
caution that, in the case of meats, care must 
be taken not to leave them long enough to 
freeze the meat. 
7 



XL 

ENTREES OF MUTTOX CUTLETS OR CHOPS. 

Mutton Cutlets a la Duchesse. — Take as 
many cutlets (or French chops) as required. 
Stew them in stock, with a small bouquet of 
herbs, very gently until they are perfectly 
tender. Take them uj), skim the stock, and 
strain it ; return to a small saucepan, and re- 
duce the liquid to a glaze ; dip each cutlet in 
the fflaze and lav it aside. Have readv what 
cooks now call a " panada," made of a gill of 
thick white sauce, two yolks of eggs stirred 
into it and allowed to approach the boiling- 
point, but not to boil (this, of course, must be 
done in a double boiler), or the eggs will cur- 
dle ; chop a dessertspoonful of parsley very 
fine ; parboil and chop also very fine three 
onions; pound thoroughly in a mortar eight 
mushrooms ; stir these all into the thick 



ENTREES. 99 

sauce, with a saltspoonful of salt and a quar- 
ter one of pepper. Roll each cutlet in this 
force-meat (if found too stiff to adhere prop- 
erly, moisten with a little cream or a little 
liquor from the mushrooms), lay them on a 
lire-proof dish, and cover with bread crumbs 
and bits of butter. Bake them until they 
are a golden brown. Serve with brown Sou- 
bise sauce. 

Laiiib Cutlets en Concomhre. — Trim and 
cut six lamb cutlets three quarters of an inch 
thick, flatten them a little to make them of 
equal size and thickness; flour them, and 
saute them in butter five minutes. The fire 
must be sharp, because they must be a nice 
brown on both sides. Arrange them round 
an entree dish, with a gill of broAvn sauce 
poured outside, and a pint of fillets of cu- 
cumber in the centre. 

To Prepare Fillets of Cucumher. — Cut firm 
fresh cucumbers lengthwise through the mid- 
dle, remove seeds and all soft parts, cut into 
inch lengths and into olive shapes all the 



100 CHOICE COOKERY. 

same size. Put them into a stewpan with 
an ounce of butter, a pinch of pepper, a salt- 
spoonful of sugar and one of salt, and let 
them stew until quite tender, without acquir- 
ing any color. To do this the stewpan must 
be closely covered and frequently shaken. 

Lamb Cutlets with a Puree of Mushrocyins. — 
Trim and cook and serve the cutlets as in 
the foregoing recipe, only in place of the cu- 
cumbers make a puree of mushrooms in the 
following way : stew half a pint of button 
mushrooms and part of their liquor in half 
a pint of white sauce until they are very ten- 
der (taking care the sauce does not burn), 
pound them in a mortar, then force them 
through a vegetable strainer; then add 
enough of the white sauce in which they 
were stewed to make the puree the sub- 
stance of very thick cream. 

Cold Laynb Cutlets in Mint Jelly. — Roast a 
piece of what butchers call the rack of lamb, 
which is really the neck and ribs. Let it get 
cold ; cut from it six cutlets, which trim just 



ENTREES. lot 

as if they were uncooked ; that is to say, re- 
move meat and fat from the bone, and scrape 
it. Mask each of the cutlets in mint jelly ^ 
warmed enouo:h to be half fluid. Arrano^e 
very carefully round an entree dish when they 
are perfectly set, so that the jelly will not 
come off. Have a Eussian salad in the centre. 
Hoio to Prepare the Salad. — To prepare 
this you require two or three small vegetable 
cutters of pretty shape ; use them to trim 
carrots, white turnips, and cucumbers into 
small, attractive forms ; boil these in sep- 
arate waters till tender; also green peas, 
sprays of cauliflower, and very tiny young 
string-beans. Throw each vegetable as it is 
cooked into ice-cold water to keep the color. 
Have some red beet-root boiled hefore it is 
cut into shapes. Use equal quantities of each 
vegetable. Arrange them with peas in the 
centre, and the others in circles round, study- 
ing the effect of color ; then dress, but do not 
mask, them with green mayonnaise. 
* For recipe, see No. V. 



102 CHOICE COOKERY. 

At seasons when materials for Eussian 
salad cannot readily be obtained the chops 
may be seryed with a centre of cucumber 
salad, or one made of the small white leayes 
of lettuce. 

Cutlets Chaudfroid a la Jcusse. — For this 
cold dish mutton cutlets are used. They 
must be of the finest quality, and from 
mutton not newly killed. Cut as many 
cutlets as required, trim, and scrape the 
bone. Braise for an hour in a moderate 
oyen till the meat is yery tender, remoye, 
and press between two dishes until they are 
cold. Then trim each cutlet into perfect 
shape. Boil a quart of strong stock (which 
already jellies) down to less than half a j^int ; 
dip each chop into this glaze once or twice, 
till they look "yarnished." You now re- 
quire a pint of stiff aspic jelly ; turn it out 
of the bowl, cut one or two slices a quarter 
of an inch thick from it, to be cut into shapes 
(or croutons) with a cutter to garnish the 
cutlets. Chop the rest of the aspic, lay it 



ENTREES. 103 

round the dish, and the cutlets against it, 
with the croutons of aspic to form the outer 
edo^e. The centre must be filled with a Kus- 
sian salad, in this case stirred up with very 
thick mayonnaise, instead of being formally 
arranged. The mayonnaise must be only 
sufiicient to dress the vegetables, none to run 
into the other materials, and beet-root must 
be added last, as it discolors the sauce if 
stirred up in it. 

ENTREES OF SWEETBREADS. 

Sweetbreads d la Supreme. — Take two 
plump sweetbreads, lay them an hour in 
strong salt and water, then boil them for ten 
minutes in fresh Avater ; put them between 
two plates to flatten till cold. Cut off all 
the gristle and loose skin from underneath ; 
put them to stew very gently in half a pint 
of good-flavored stock. Take them up, drain 
well, and stew them in half a pint of sauce 
supreme, with a dozen small mushrooms, for 
ten minutes. 



104 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Sioeetbreads with Oysters. — Prepare the 
sweetbreads as in the foregoing recipe, quar- 
ter them, and put them in a stewpan with a 
gill of Avhite stock, the strained liquor from 
two dozen oysters, a salt spoonful of salt, a 
pinch of pepper, and a suspicion of nutmeg. 
Put two ounces of butter in a stewpan over 
the fire, stir into it one tablespoonful of fine 
flour ; let them bubble together, stirring the 
while, one minute. When the sweetbreads 
have been simmering twenty minutes, pour 
the gravy from them to the sauce ; stir quick- 
ly till smooth. If thicker than very thick 
cream, add a little more stock. In five 
minutes add the oysters. Keep at hoiling- 
jyoint, but not boiling, till the oysters are 
firm and plump. Do not leave them in the 
sauce a minute beyond this, or they will be- 
gin to shrink. Take them and the sweet- 
breads up, and if the sauce is too thin to bear 
a wineglass of cream, boil it rapidly down 
till very tldck ; then skim, and just before 
pouring over the sweetbreads stir in a wine- 



ENTREES. 105 

glass of thick cream. If it goes in earlier it 
may curdle. 

It has been explained before, but I repeat 
it here, that there must never be too much 
sauce, however good, to any dish, and that 
the consistency is most important : it must 
be thick enough to mask a spoon, yet run 
from it freely. N^othing can be worse than 
a dab of white mush being served as sauce, 
unless it be a quantity of thin, milky soup 
floating on every plate. This is where the 
happy medium must be struck. It is per- 
fectly easy to give exact proportions to pro- 
duce certain degrees of thickness, and this 
has been done in the chapters on sauces ; but 
where these sauces are used as a medium in 
which to cook, for instance, sweetbreads, a 
certain amount of liquid must be added to 
prevent burning. Now it is impossible to 
say how fast this added liquid will diminisli 
if the simmering is as slow as it should be, 
it may lose hardly at all, in which case the 
articles stewed must be taken out, and a few 
minutes' hard boiling given to evaporate the 



106 CHOICE COOKERY. 

liquid and bring the sauce back to the proper 
point. 

Bweethreads in Cases. — Prepare two sweet- 
breads as directed in the foregoing recipes. 
Put them in a stewpan with a thin shce of 
fat boiled ham, half a carrot, half a turnip, 
and a small onion, all cut small, and laid as 
a bed under the sweetbreads ; put in a gill of 
broth, a bouquet of herbs, and half a salt- 
spoonful of salt, with a pinch of pepper. Let 
them stew, closely covered, one hour, turning 
them after the first half-hour. When done, 
take them up and drain them. When cold, 
cover with thick d'Uxelles sauce ; sprinkle 
thickly with very fine bread crumbs. Make 
two rough paper cases, butter each liberally, 
and very carefully lay each sweetbread in 
one, crumbed side uppermost. Put them in 
a quick oven till pale brown. Have ready 
proper sweetbread cases, slip them neatly 
into them, and serve. 

These are excellent cold, in which event 
they should not be shifted from the rough 
case until ready to serve. 



XII. 

ox THE MANNER OF PREPARING CROQUETTES, CUT- 
LETS, KROMESKIES, RISSOLES, AND CIGARETTES. 

Although these ever-popular dishes are all 
or may all be prepared from one mixture, 
there is a difference in the manner of using 
it which I will here explain. 

Croquettes are made from a soft creamy 
mixture chilled on ice till firm enough to 
mould, then simply dipped into ^^g and 
crumbs and fried in very hot fat. 

Cutlets are the same (of course fancy 
cutlets are meant, not the French chops, so 
called), only they are shaped to imitate a 
real cutlet, with a little bone inserted ; or, in 
the case of lobster cutlets, a small claw is 
used to simulate the chop bone. Many only 
stick a sprig of parsley where the bone should 
be, to keep up the fiction. 

Kromeshies are rolls of the same mixture 



108 CHOICE COOKERY. 

enveloped in very thin slices (hardly thicker 
than paper) of fat larding pork; a small 
toothpick holds the pork in place. The rolls 
are then egged, crumbed, and fried. 

Bissoles are the same thing, only rather 
easier to prepare, being rolled in very thin 
pastry instead of pork. 

Cigarettes^ the newest variation of the 
favorite entree, and most dainty of them all 
in appearance, are thin rolls of croquette 
mixture (or, better still, quenelle meat) not 
thicker than a small cigar. These are rolled 
in pastry, thoroughly deadened, pinched very 
securely, and fried a very pale brown. 

As the manner of making the mixture is 
about the same for all kinds of meats, fish, 
or game, var^^ing only in flavor — a little 
wine, a little onion, or sweet herbs taking 
the place of the mushrooms in some cases — 
I will give exact directions for making sweet- 
bread cutlets ; chicken, game, or fish may be 
substituted for the sweetbreads, naming them 
accordingly. The ham may always be omit- 



CUTLETS OF SWEETBEEADS. 109 

ted where the flavor is objected to. For those 
who like it, it adds very much to sweetbreads, 
but would be out of place with game, which 
should depend on its own individual flavor. 

Outlets of Sweetbreads. — Soak a pair of 
sweetbreads in salt and Avater for an hour — 
longer if there is much blood about them ; 
then cook them half an hour in stock. Drain 
them and let them get cold. Trim off all 
superfluous fat and gristle ; chop them with 
one ounce of lean boiled ham to each pair of 
large sweetbreads, and half a can of mush- 
rooms, a small teaspoonful of salt, the sixth 
of one of pepper. Put an ounce of flour in a 
small thick saucepan with an ounce of but- 
ter; stir them together over the fire until 
they bubble ; then add a half -pint of liquid 
consisting of a gill of stiff jellied stock and a 
gill of thick cream; stir till they boil and 
form a smooth sauce ; mix the sweetbread 
mixture with the sauce. 

The mixture should be a soft, creamy mass, 
not in any way so stiff as sausage-meat, or so 



110 CHOICE COOKERY. 

as to remain in a heajD without spreading; 
when j)ourecl on a plate, it should be of a 
consistency that will slowly settle, yet there 
must not be any liquid whatever. On this 
question of consistency depends the quality 
of the croquettes, cutlets, etc., made from it. 
If too stiff, they will be dry and only a 
superior sort of hash ball. What you have 
to aim at is a croquette or cutlet that will 
ooze out of the thin shell of egg and crumb 
w^hen pressed with a fork. Success in attain- 
ing this can always be secured by taking care 
to moisten the minced meat with a sauce 
made of very stiff jelly in the proportion of 
half a pint of liquid (the melted jelly and 
cream) and one ounce each of flour and but- 
ter. This will mix a pint of sweetbread and 
mushrooms, or rather less of dry meat, such 
as the breast of chicken, veal, etc. 

I dwell on this point because this class of 
entrees is always popular, and if the consist- 
ency is once well understood, success is cer- 
tain to follow. 



SWEETBREAD CROQUETTES. HI 

When the mixture is poured into shallow 
dishes or plates, a piece of buttered paper 
should be laid over them, and then they 
should be placed on ice until quite firm. 
When ready, cut small pieces of the mixture, 
make them into shapes as nearly resembling 
a French chop as you can, using a very little 
cracker meal should they stick to your hands. 
Have before you a large dish of cracker meal 
and the yolks of two eggs beaten w^ith two 
small tablespoonfuls of water, cover each 
cutlet thoroughly w4th egg, then with meal, 
gently patting them to make the meal ad- 
here ; insert anything you please to repre- 
sent the bone (turkey ribs may be boiled 
white and kept for this purpose). Cutlets 
require to be dropped into very hot fat, and 
taken up within two minutes. Consult direc- 
tions for frying in former chapter. 

Sweetbread croquettes are simply made 
into cork or pear shapes, never large, instead 
of cutlets. When the white meat of chicken 
replaces half the sweetbread, they are called 
Cutlets, or Croquettes, a la Heine. 



112 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Make no attempt to mould croquettes or 
cutlets until the mixture is firm enough to 
cut ; then handle \ery quickly, make into 
proper forms, finish them either as cutlets or 
what you wish, and let them remain in a cold 
])lace for an hour or two before cooking ; this 
last direction may not be always possible, and 
to an expert is not necessary, but when time 
can be given the amateur should always plan 
to do it. 

Eut though in experienced hands it is pos- 
sible (though not so easy) to make croquettes 
and fry them as soon as breaded, do not be 
led to believe tliat you can dispense Avith 
putting the mixture on the ice the first time. 
1 remember a young lady who w^as very 
proud of her croquettes telling me she never 
found it necessary to chill the mixture ; she 
could secure perfect shape Avithout. I asked 
to see the process, and decided in my own 
mind that she must go widely from the di- 
rections, and have her material as stiff as 
hash ; but I found she solved the difficulty 



BRAISED SWEETBREADS. 113 

in a different way : she simply worked in 
quantities of cracker meal, using it like flour. 
Of course the croquettes w^ere spoiled, al- 
though it was true they kept their shape, 
and I do not think the young lady realized 
at all that she was changing and impover- 
ishing the preparation altogether. 

Braised Sioeetbreads. — Take a pair of 
sweetbreads, lay in salt and water for an 
hour, then blanch. Press slightly between 
two dishes ; when cold, remove all skin, fat, 
and gristle ; cut up very fine a small carrot, 
a turnip, and an onion ; put them in a stew- 
pan with the sweetbreads, pour over them a 
pint of stock, lay a piece of buttered paper 
over them, and braise carefully for half an 
hour. Take them out of the stewpan, put 
them in a small meat-pan, boil the liquor 
rapidly a couple of minutes, then baste the 
sweetbreads w^ith it several times ; put them 
in a quick oven to brown ; serve on slices of 
fried bread, pour half a pint of Spanish sauce 
round, and garnish with mushrooms. 
8 



114 CHOICE COOKEKY. 

Tartlettes of Chicken. — Cut six ounces of 
the breast of a cooked chicken into very 
small pieces, chop up one truffle, twelve 
mushrooms, and two ounces of lean boiled 
ham ; stir them into a gill of white sauce. 
Butter thickly nine dariole moulds, line them 
neatly with quenelle meat,* of which you 
will require half a pound, fill the centre care- 
fully with the mixed chicken, cover the top 
carefully with quenelle meat, and steam for 
twenty minutes ; dish on a circle of spinach, 
pour bechamel sauce over and round, fill the 
centre of the dish with peas or mixed vege- 
tables. 

Chicken d la Hollandaise. — Take out the 
breast-bone of a large young fowl, and fill the 
space with the following force-meat : half a 
pint of fine bread-crumbs, an ounce and a 
half of butter, a small boiled onion chopped, 
and a dozen o3"sters cut into small pieces ; a 
saltspoonf ul of salt, a pinch of pepper ; bind 



* See directions in No. IV. 



CHICKEN A LA HOLLANDAISE. 115 

together with an egg, sew up the fowl, and 
truss for roasting. Make a nice batter, as 
for fine fritters, and when the fowl has been 
in the oven half an hour, pour part of the 
batter over it ; w^hen dry and beginning to 
brown, pour more, until it is thickly coated 
and a nice brown ; baste often ; cut up the 
chicken, and serve with AUemande sauce and 
lemon. 



XIII. 

PATTIES. 

The directions for making one kind will 
serve for patties generally. In cities the 
cases are very easily bought, but where they 
have to be made at home, only one who is 
already an expert in making puif -paste should 
attempt them. 

Patties when served as an-entree should 
be quite small, or half of them will certainly 
be left on the plates. 

Eoll puff -paste a quarter of an inch thick 
for each patty, cut three circles from it, 
moisten the surface of two very slightly 
with water, place one on the other, then with 
a sharp penknife cut a circle nearly through 
the third round, leaving a margin of one 
third of an inch ; lay this round carefully on 
the other two; brush the top with white of 



PATTIES. 117 

egg (be sure not to touch the sides), and 
bake in a very quick oven. Patties must 
be watched, and turned if they show signs 
of rising unevenly. When they are a fine 
yellow-brown take them out, and leave five 
minutes for them to cool slightly, then with 
a penknife or a boning -knife carefully re- 
move the top formed by the smaller circle 
you marked, and which (if the paste was 
very light and the oven in good condition) 
will probably have risen out of the centre. 
Be careful in handling these covers, for 
while warm they are very brittle. With a 
coffee-spoon remove the half-cooked dough 
from the centre of the patty, taking care, 
however, to leave sufficient thickness of in- 
ner crust to prevent the sauce from oozing 
through. 

The filling for patties can be made before 
it is needed ; but when that is done, it must 
be made quite hot before it is put into the 
cases, as, if it were put in cold, the pastr}^ 
would burn before the inside became warm. 



118 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Dresden Patty Cases. — These make a very 
pretty kind of patty when puff-paste is not 
to he had, and even when it is are a desira- 
ble variety. They are made from fine hght 
baker's bread. Cut shces an inch and a half 
thick, then with a biscuit cutter about two 
inches in diameter cut circles from these 
slices, and with another cutter, a size smaller, 
press half-way through each. You will now 
have pieces of bread the size and shape of 
patties. Beat four eggs ; mix with a pint 
of milk and a salt spoonful of salt ; pour this 
into a shallow pan, and stand the bread pat- 
ties in it. The amount of milk and eggs 
must of course depend on the number of 
patties ; the proportion named is enough for 
six small ones. The patties must remain 
steeping until they are thoroughly soaked ; 
they must be carefully turned upside down 
when the lower part is sufficiently steeped. 
The time required will depend on the quality 
of the bread, but one hour will generally 
suffice. The bread must be thoroughly pen- 



PATTIES. 119 

etrated by the custard, be almost as moist as 
mush, yet be in no danger (with careful hand- 
ling) of breaking. When sufficiently steeped, 
take each one on a cake turner and lay it on 
a drainer. (They may be prepared some 
hours before they are needed for cooking.) 
\Yhen quite drained, baste each one carefully 
with beaten egg till every part is coated, 
then smother it in cracker meal. Gently pat 
it to make it adhere, then slip the patty on 
to a dish till you are ready to fry. Do not 
attempt to move the patties with the hand 
or a spoon, but with a flat skimmer or cake 
turner. 

When prepared as directed, make three 
pounds of lard veri/ hot in a deep frying-ket- 
tle,* place three of the patties on a fine wire 
frying-basket, and fry brown. The fat should 
be excessively hot, as the patties, being full 
of cold custard, will not burn, and will rapid- 
ly cool it. They should be a delicate brown 

* See full directions for fivinsr in No. X. 



120 CHOICE COOKERY. 

in six or seven minutes. Let the fat come 
back to the original intense heat before put- 
ting in the other patties. When tliey are 
fried, remove the centre you marked with 
the smaller cutter with a sharp thin knife 
and small teaspoon, leaving the sides about 
half an inch thick. They are now ready to 
fill. If the patties are just right, the inside 
you remove should be of a custard-like text- 
ure, 7iot like sopped bread : indeed, in eating 
them, the bread should not be easily detected. 
These patties are very delicious filled with 
any of the usual fillings, or, for dessert, with 
stiff preserve. They have no covers, conse- 
quently the filling should be piled high with- 
out allowing the sauce to run over, and gar- 
nished with parsley or water-cress. 

Sweetbread Patties. — Soak two very white 
sweetbreads in salt and water one hour ; par- 
boil for twenty minutes ; then let them cool ; 
remove the skin, fat, and gristle ; cut them 
into half -inch dice, and lay them aside while 
you prepare the following sauce : Put a gill 



PATTIES. 121 

of strong white stock into a small saucepan 
with a gill of mushroom liquor (and a dozen 
small mushrooms cut in four if aj^proved) to 
boil. In another saucepan cook an ounce of 
flour and one of butter together, stirring till 
they bubble ; pour the two gills of stock 
quickly to it, and stir till smooth. Season 
with half a teaspoonful of salt and very lit- 
tle pepper; lay in the sweetbreads, and let 
them stew twenty minutes. Strain them off 
from the sauce, which boil down (stirring 
constantly to prevent burning) till very thick; 
then add a gill of thick fresh cream. The 
sauce should now be thick enough to mask 
the spoon ^^ery heavily / pour it over the 
sweetbreads, and stir together. This is now 
ready for filling the patties. If mushrooms 
are not liked they may be omitted, the liq- 
uor replaced by a gill of stock and a tea- 
spoonful of white wine. 

Oyster Patties. — Take a dozen and a half 
Blue Points, scald them in their own liquor, 
but do not leave them a moment after they 



123 CHOICE COOKERY. 

reach the boiling-point; strain the liquor 
from them ; cut each oyster in four. Put a 
tablespoonf ul of flour and one of butter into 
a small saucepan over the fire, stir them to- 
gether until they bubble ; then pour to them 
half a pint of the strained liquor of the oys- 
ters, or part liquor and part stock. Stir con- 
tinually, and let the sauce boil Yery thick; 
then lay in the oysters, and simmer half a 
minute. The amount of seasoning required 
will depend on the saltness of the oysters, 
but a saltspoonful of salt will probably not 
be too much, a little pe])per, and a teaspoon- 
ful of essence of anchovies — just enough to 
make the sauce a delicate salmon-color. For 
the last thing, stir in one small teaspoonful 
of lemon juice. The consistency of the sauce 
for all patties should be that of very thick 
double cream. When it is not thick enough, 
it can always be reduced by boiling down, 
taking care not to boil the meat or oysters, 
etc., in it. 

CMckeii Patties. — Take the breast of a 



PATTIES. 123 

boiled chicken, cut it into dice ; use half a 
pint of the liquor in which it was boiled to 
make the sauce. Put this broth in a small 
saucepan with a teaspoonful of lean boiled 
ham chopped a little (take care there is not 
a particle of the outside of the ham, or it may 
impart a smoky flavor) ; let the ham simmer 
in the broth while you melt together a table- 
spoonful of flour and one of butter; when 
they bubble, and the broth has been boiled 
down to about one half, strain the latter into 
a half-pint measure, fill up with cream, and 
stir this quickly to the flour and butter. 
When the sauce is thick and smooth, ]nit in 
the chicken; keep the mixture at boiling- 
point ^YQ minutes, then set the saucepan in 
another of boiling water, and stir in the 
beaten yolks of two eggs ; only just let them 
thicken ; then remove from the fire, and use 
for filling the patty cases. A teaspoonful of 
sherry is often added to the sauce. If this 
tilling is not used while hot, it must be re- 
heated in a double boiler and watched, or 



134 CHOICE COOKERY. 

the eggs will curdle ; or the filling may be 
prepared and the eggs added after it is re- 
heated. 

JBouchees of any kind are simply patties 
made very small indeed — for this reason the 
filling is always chojyped instead of being cut 
into dice. 

The essence of anchovy mentioned is a 
most useful sauce for fish, and can be bought 
at any large grocery. 



xiy. 

ENTREES. 

In an earlier chapter I gave directions for 
quenelles as an adjunct to soups and for 
garnishing. Used in this way, they are only 
a revival of an old French fashion, coarsely 
imitated in the benighted days of Anglo- 
Saxon cookery by the English "force-meat 
balls." Lately, however, not only are que- 
nelles a great feature in high-class cookery 
as additions to made dishes, but they are a 
most fashionable and delicious entree, and 
replace with great advantage the too-fre- 
quent croquette. 

To prepare quenelle meat for entrees. 

Mode No. 1. — To make quenelle meat, a 
mortar is indispensable, as it must be pounded 
to a pulp that will go through a sieve, and I 
have known a persevering woman grate the 



126 CHOICE COOKERY. 

breast of chicken on a large grater, but this 
is very slow work. Take the white meat 
from a large, young, uncooked chicken, and re- 
move all skin, fat, and sinew. Melt together 
over the fire a scant tablespoonful of butter 
and one of flour ; Avhen they are thick and 
smooth^ stir in a gill of boiling water quick- 
ly. This should now be a thick paste ; put 
it away to cool. Take half as much butter 
as you have of chicken, and half the quanti- 
ty of paste (technically called panada) that 
you have of butter. Put the paste into a 
mortar; pound it well; add the butter; 
pound again till smooth; add the chicken, 
cut up very small, and pound until the whole 
forms a smooth pulp. Add one whole egg 
and the yolks of three, the third of a salt- 
spoonful of white pepper (salt must depend 
on whether the butter seasons sufficiently). 
Work all well together, stir in half a gill of 
thick cream, and pass the whole through a 
wire sieve. Put the whole on ice to get 
firm. The quenelles should be about the 



ENTEEES. 127 

size of a small egg flattened ; shape with 
two tablespoons dipped in flour. Have 
ready a frying-pan with boiling water in 
which is a saltspoonful of salt, lay each 
quenelle carefully in, and poach for ten min- 
utes. The water must boil very gently. 
Drain on a sieve ; serve with mushroom or 
tomato sauce. Have a little dried parsley 
and grated tongue or ham, and scatter alter- 
nately on each quenelle. 

Mode jVo. 2. — One pound of lean veal cut- 
let ; pound it thoroughly in a mortar ; theii 
rub it through a sieve, or it may be forced 
(after it is pounded) through a vegetable 
strainer. Steep a pound of bread crumb in 
tepid water ; wring it in a cloth to get rid 
of the moisture ; put it in a stewpan with a 
tablespoonful of butter and a pinch of salt. 
Stir it over the fire until it ceases to stick to 
the pan and forms a smooth paste. Place it 
between two plates to cool. This is called 
bread panada. Put into a mortar twelve 
ounces of the prepared veal, six ounces of 



128 CHOICE COOKEEY. 

fresh butter, and eight ounces of the panada. 
Pound all well together; mix in gradually 
one whole egg, two tablespoonfuls of thick 
cream, and the yolks of four more eggs, a 
scant teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter-salt- 
spoonful of pepper. When this is all pound- 
ed into a smooth, compact mass, put it into a 
bowl and place it on ice until required for 
use. Mould and poach as described in last 
recipe. 

Great care is required in cooking quenelles, 
as if they are overdone they become tough ; 
ten minutes is enough for those the size of a 
small egg. Before moulding the whole, 
poach a small one, break it open, and ascer- 
tain if it is smooth, light, yet firm. They 
should melt in the mouth. If they are at 
all tough, add a little more cream to the 
mixture, unless the toughness comes from 
over-boiling, w^hich you must guard against. 
Yery elaborate quenelles are made with a 
core of dark meat, made by chopping up 
ham, tongue, or truffles very fine, and insert- 



ENTREES. 129 

ing it ill the centre while forming the que- 
nelles. Always serve quenelles with tomato, 
mushroom, or rich Spanish sauce. Dish in 
a circle, and fill the centre with spinach, 
green peas, or a macedoine of mixed veg- 
etables. 

The mode of preparing all quenelles is by 
one of the two methods just given, but they 
may be made of any kind of game, or the 
backs of hares or rabbits. Quenelles of salm- 
on, lobster, or other fish must of course be 
served with appropriate fish sauce. 

Timhale of CMckeii d la Chamjyenois. — 
Chop a small slice of lean boiled ham, weigh- 
ing about two ounces, put into a saucepan 
with four chopped mushrooms, four truffles, 
and an ounce of butter; stir in a moderate 
dessertspoonful of corn -starch and half a 
pint of stock and a gill of sherry; let this 
slowly simmer until reduced to one half. 
Skim off the fat, then stir in the finely 
chopped breast of a large chicken or of 
two small ones, six small pickled gherkins, 



130 CHOICE COOKERY. 

a sprig of parsley, and six anchovies which 
have been soaked in milk. Make all hot 
over a slow fire, but do not let them boil. 
Line a mould with light puff -paste, pour 
the mixture into it, and bake one hour ; tarn 
out and serve very hot. Garnish with fried 
parsley. 

Scallops of Chicken a la Perigord. — This 
dish may conveniently be made when the 
white meat of chicken is required for other 
purposes. 

Bone the legs of two large chickens ; take 
half a pound of veal, a quarter of a pound of 
fat salt pork ; pound both in a mortar, then 
pass through a sieve ; add to this two table- 
spoonfuls of minced tongue, six truffles, and 
half a dozen button mushrooms, the yolks of 
two eggs, a saltspoonful of salt, and a very 
little cayenne. Mix well. Stuff the legs of 
the fowls with this. Sewing them up neat- 
ly, wrap each up in buttered paper; put 
them in a stewpan with two ounces of but- 
ter and a carrot, turnip, and small onion cut 



ENTEEES. 131 

up ; add three quarters of a pint of brown 
stock. Put the stewpan in the oven, baste 
well, and cook gently one hour. When 
cooked, have ready a mound of spinach. 
Take a ^i^ery sharp knife, cut the legs in 
slices so as to make circles like slices of sau- 
sage; strain off the gravy. Cook together 
a dessertspoonful of butter and flour; when 
they bubble, pour the strained gravy to it, 
with a gill of sherry and a little salt and 
pepper ; stir till smooth ; boil till as thick as 
cream. Dress the scallops of chicken in a 
circle round the spinach, pour the sauce 
round all, and insert bits of truffle and of 
tongue between the scallops. 

Chicken Souffle. — Pound three ounces of 
the white meat of cooked chicken as fine as 
possible ; mix with it half a pint of cream 
and three well beaten eggs, a few button 
mushrooms finely chopped, a saltspoonful 
of salt, a sixth of one of pepper, a dust of 
cayenne, and a speck of powdered mace. Pour 
the mixture in a well - buttered mould, tie 



133 CHOICE COOKERF. 

a cloth over it, and steam it half an hoar. 
It must stand quite upright in the steam- 
er. Turn out on a hot dish, and pour any 
rich brown sauce preferred around it. This 
souffle may be made of sweetbreads, or half 
and half. If individual souffles are preferred, 
butter as i ly dariole moulds as the mixt- 
ure will f ': • lay at the bottom of each 
something by way of garnish — a little star 
or disk of tongue or ham for some, of truf- 
fle for others, of green gherkin for others — 
so that when turned out the top of the souf- 
fles w411 show spots of color. Half fill the 
moulds, and steam twenty minutes. 

Souffles of all kinds depend for excellence 
on being served the moment they are ready, 
and on the steam being kept up all the time 
they are cooking. AVhen baked the oven 
must be very steady. 

Fritot of Chichen. — Take a cold chicken, 
cut it into small neat joints, season rather 
highly with salt and pepper, strew over 
them a small grated onion (or one very 



ENTEEES. 133 

finely chopped), and a dessertspoonful of 
chopped parsley. Cover them with oil, and 
then squeeze over them the juice of a lemon. 
Turn the pieces now and then, and let them 
remain until they have absorbed the flavor. 
Meanwhile make a batter of four table- 
spoonfuls of flour and about eight of milk, 
or as much as will make a thick smooth bat- 
ter; stir into it a wineglass of brandy and 
an egg, the whole beaten to a high froth. 
Leave this batter in a warm place an hour 
before using, dip the pieces of chicken into 
it, and fry in very hot, deep fat. Serve piled 
high on a dish garnished with fried parsley. 



XY. 

ENTREES.— Continued. 

Cigarettes d la Heine. — These are the new- 
est development of the rissole and croquette. 
They require strict attention to details to se- 
cure perfect form. Roll puff -paste a quarter 
of an inch thick ; prick it all over — this is to 
deaden it ; roll it now till it is no thicker than 
cartridge-paper. Cut it with a sharp knife 
dipped in flour into strips about two inches 
and a half wide and about the length of a 
cigar ; lay on each strip a roll of chicken que- 
nelle meat that is very firm, and the roll not 
thicker than a lady's slender forefinger ; be 
careful that the meat reaches nearly the whole 
length of the paste, yet leaves a margin for 
closing, as the least oozing will spoil the ap- 
pearance. Moisten the edges of the paste all 
round with white of egg ; fold the paste over 
half an inch ; be very icaref ul to see that it 



ENTREES. 135 

adheres thoroughly; then pinch the ends. 
Roll them gently with a cool hand on the 
floured board to round them without pres- 
sure, taper off the ends cigar fashion. If 
they are softening, lay them on a floured 
plate on ice to get firm ; then roll them in 
egg and very finely sifted cracker meal. You 
may roll or improve the shape, if there is any 
irregularity, while crumbing them. Remem- 
ber what you aim to imitate is a cigar. The 
great danger for the first time is getting them 
too large ; they must therefore be very slen- 
der. Fry in deep fat just as rissoles ; serve 
on a napkin, log-house fashion. These dain- 
ties, as will have been seen, have a large 
amount of butter, and soften in a warm 
room ; they must therefore be made in a 
cold room, and if set on ice some hours be- 
fore cooking will be much easier to fry with- 
out bendino: or twistino:. 

CigaretUs a la Chasseur are, as the name 
indicates, made of game, in exactly the same 
way as the last recipe. 



136 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Lobster Quenelles. — Prepare with bread pa- 
nada as directed for quenelle ineat. Poach 
and drain them. Then dish in a circle with 
thick HoUandaise sauce in the centre and 
round them. 

Cliicken^ Turtle Fashion. — This requires a 
pullet or young hen about six months old. 
Bone the bird ; stuff with a force-meat made 
of four parts minced veal, two parts chopped 
hard eggs, a half part lean boiled ham, two 
parts mushrooms, and two parts j^a^^ defoie 
gixis. Pirst make the veal and ham hot in 
a little butter, then add the mushrooms and 
foie gras ; moisten with stock or mushroom 
liquor, and gently simmer ^Ye minutes. Stir 
in two beaten yolks of eggs and a teaspoon- 
ful of lemon juice. Season with a saltspoon- 
ful of salt, a quarter one of white pepper, 
and a tiny pinch of nutmeg, grated. Stuff 
the fowl with this mixture ; sew it up with 
trussing-needle and string; turn the skin of 
the neck half over the head, and cut off part 
of the comb, which gives the appearance of 



ENTEEES. 137 

the turtle's head. Scald and skin four chick- 
ens' feet ; cut off the claws, and insert two 
where the wings ought to be and two in the 
thighs, so as to look like turtles' feet. Put 
in a stewpan a tablespoonful of chopped 
boiled ham, an onion, and a small carrot cut 
up, with a tablespoonful of butter ; let them 
brown very slightly, add half a pint of stock, 
ckim it, la}^ the fowl in this stock, and stew 
gently for an hour and a half to two hours, 
or even longer, according to size. When quite 
tender take up the fowl, cut and remove the 
string with which it is sewn, lay it on its 
back on a dish, garnish the breast with sliced 
truffles cut in fancy shapes, place a crawfish 
tail to represent the turtle's tail. When eat- 
en hot serve veloute sauce. This is an excel- 
lent dish cold garnished with aspic. 

Baked Bavioli. — Four ounces of veal, six 
ounces of butter, three ounces of lean sau- 
sage-meat, a teaspoonful of mixed sweet 
herbs, a little salt and pepper. Found all in 
a mortar; when smooth, pound separately 



138 CHOICE COOKERY. 

a gill of spinach that has been boiled till just 
tender without losing color, and a quarter of a 
pound of cream cheese or rich cottage cheese, 
which must be squeezed in a cloth to remove 
all the milk. When smooth, pound all togeth- 
er, and stir in the yolks of two eggs. Make 
some pastry with half a pound of butter, 
three quarters of a pound of flour, and the 
yolks of two eggs; mix stiff, and roll till 
about as thick as a fifty-cent piece. Cut the 
paste in two parts. Take a medium-sized 
biscuit-cutter, mark half as many circles on 
one half the paste as you wish ravioli. Lay 
in the centre of each circle a mound of the 
force-meat — perhaps a large teaspoonful, 
only be careful to leave a quarter-inch mar- 
gin all round. Moisten this margin with a 
camers-hair brush dipped in white of egg; 
Isij the second half of the pastry over these 
mounds ; press the cutter on each to trim 
them, and you have a number of little round 
patties ; press the edges together very well by 
curving the little finger round them. Have 



ENTEEES. 139 

some rich stock boiling in a stewpan ; poach 
the ravioli ^ve minutes. Take them up, drain 
them well, arrange them in a fire-proof gratin 
dish, sprinkle them over with grated Parme- 
san cheese, pour in a very little stock, and 
bake brown in the oven. 

Veal Outlets d la Primrose. — Take a pound 
of veal cutlet ; cut it up into small cutlets the 
size of a dollar, and perfectly round. Put 
two ounces of butter (which has been first 
melted to let the curd separate) into a sauce- 
pan, with three onions, two ounces of bacon 
cut into small dice, a boucpet of herbs (in- 
cluding bay-leaf). Fry, stirring frequently, 
for a quarter of an hour, then add a table- 
spoonful of corn-starch, a dessertspoonful of 
Tarragon vinegar, and a pint of strong stock. 
Let all simmer very gently for about one 
hour. Take up the cutlets, strain the gravy 
and pour it over them, then sprinkle with a 
tablespoonf ul of grated tongue, and the same 
quantity of parsley dried and crumbled small. 
Chicken may also be cooked in this way. 



140 CHOICE COOKEEY. 

Quails d la Ltccidlus. — This, as its name 
implies, is a most expensive and luxurious 
way of serving these dainty birds, yet by 
management the livers of chickens may be 
saved a day or two by scalding them, and 
the opportunity taken when several are re- 
quired for general use during a week. Bone 
very carefully six or eight quails. Cut up 
three ounces of unsmoked bacon, put it in a 
saute pan, let it cook five minutes, then add 
the livers, a shallot sliced, a small bouquet, 
twelve white peppercorns, six cloves, a salt- 
spoonful of salt. Let all cook carefully ten 
minutes : nothing must burn or get very 
brown. When cooked, pound well in a mor- 
tar, pass through a sieve, then add three truf- 
fles chopped ; stuff each quail into shape, but- 
ter some paper cases known as " quail cases," 
put a quail into each case, a few drops of olive 
oil on each breast. Then put them in a quick 
oven for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour. 
For the gravy, put the bones of the quails in 
a stewpan, add a tablespoonful of glaze and 



\ 



ENTEEES. 141 



a gill of brown sauce, Avith one tablespoon- 
ful of water. Simmer till the gravy is well 
flavored from the bones, then strain, and add 
two tablespoonfuls of chopped truffles and 
half a gill of sherry. Put one tablespoonful 
of this sauce over each quail before sending 
it to the table, after very carefully draining 
all grease from the quails. These are served 
in the jiapers, but rough paper cases may be 
made to bake them in, and the regular crimped 
ones set in the oven to get hot just before 
dishing up. Slip the quails into them after 
draining. 

Quails a la Jiibilee. — Bone as many birds 
as required. Lard them with pork and thin 
strips of truffles. Stuff them in shape with 
equal parts of sweetbreads and oysters, sew 
them up ; roll them in buttered paper, and 
cook in the oven in enough Chablis to cover 
them. Pound some boiled potatoes and wa- 
ter-cresses together until thoroughly blend- 
ed ; put a tablespoonful of butter in a sauce- 
pan with one of milk ; put in the potato, stir 



143 CHOICE COOKERY. 

round till quite hot ; use this to make a bor- 
der on which to serve the quails. When they 
have cooked fifteen to twenty minutes, take 
them up, glaze them (melt glaze in a cup 
standing in hot water, and brush them over). 
Lay them on the potato border, and pour 
into the centre some Spanish sauce with 
mushrooms in which has been boiled a slice 
of lemon. 



XYI. 

ENTREES. — Continued. 

Pigeon Cutlets. — Take half a dozen young 
pigeons, split them down the back, and bone 
them, all but the leg, cutting off the Avings 
at the second joint. Cut each bird in two 
down the breast ; trim off all ragged edges, 
so that each half -bird has as much as possi- 
ble the appearance of a cutlet, the leg serv- 
ing for the bone. Saute these cutlets, hav- 
ing seasoned them wdth pepper and salt, for 
three minutes in hot butter, then put them 
in the oven for five minutes. AYhen done, 
press between two plates till cold. Then 
mask each cutlet with a thick puree of to- 
matoes and mushrooms in which aspic jelly 
has been mixed, equal parts of each. Let 
them be put on ice to stiffen the masking. 
Eoll in fine cracker meal, then dip into well- 



144 CHOICE COOKERY. 

beaten egg, again into the meal, and then 
place them in a saute pan with veiy hot clar- 
ified butter, and cook them a fine golden 
brown. Dish up on a border of mashed j)o- 
tatoes browned with grated Parmesan ; serve 
mushrooms in the centre and Spanish sauce 
all round. 

Pigeons a la Tartare. — The pigeons should 
be trussed for broiling; flatten well with a 
rolling-pin without breaking the skin, season 
them with j^epper and salt, dip into clarified 
butter and cover with very fine crumbs or 
cracker meal. Broil them caret ullv, turnino: 
often. Make a sauce of a scant tablespoon- 
ful of finely chopped parsley, a shallot, two 
spoonfuls of pickled gherkins, and a boned 
anchovy. Mince all finely and separately. 
Squeeze over them the juice of a lemon ; add 
half a tablespoonful of water and six of oil, 
and a little pepper. Mix all very well, and 
just before serving rub in a teaspoonful of 
dry mustard. Put the sauce into the dish, 
lay the pigeons over, and serve. 



ENTREES. 145 

Compote of Pigeons. — For any dish of 
pigeons except roast or broiled, wild birds 
may be used in place of tame. Their flavor 
is far finer, and if not perfectly young, which 
is the main objection to the use of wild birds, 
the preparation remedies the defect. Cut 
four ounces of lean unsmoked bacon into 
pieces, and fry five minutes. Split the pig- 
eons in half, skewer each half as neatly as 
possible with tiny skewers, so that they will 
not sprawl when dished ; flour and season 
them lightly, and fry a nice brown on both 
sides ; add one small carrot, one small turnip, 
two sticks of celery, one shallot, six mush- 
rooms — all cut small ; add a hoiiqitet g.ai'iii 
and three gills of rich stock; let them all 
simmer very slowly in a stewpan for one 
hour, or longer if the birds are not young. 
Simmer together a tablespoonful of flour 
and one of butter ; pepper and salt (quan- 
tities depend on whether the stock be sea- 
soned) ; stir constantly, and when they begin 
to change color pour a gill of brown stock 
10 



146 CHOICE COOKEEY. 

to it, stirring well; remove from the fire. 
Take up the pigeons, strain the gravy, then 
stir in the brown thickening you have made ; 
boil up, skim off all fat, then return the 
birds ; let them get thoroughly hot, but not 
boil. Serve on a border of mashed potatoes, 
pour the gravy round and over them, and 
fill the centre with peas or spinach. 

Souffle of Partridges. — Clean and cook two 
partridges ; remove the breasts and best of 
the other flesh without skin or sinew. Take 
two ounces of rice cooked till very tender, 
pound them together in a mortar with one 
ounce of butter and a gill and a half of glaze 
melted, a teaspoonful of salt, and a sixth of 
pepper. Pound until the whole can be forced 
through a strainer, then add the beaten yolks 
of four eggs, and last of all the whites of 
two beaten till they will not slip from the 
dish ; stir them very lightly into the mixture. 
Pour it into a silver souffle case, or into a 
number of the small china cases. Bake till 
it rises, and then serve immediately with a 



ENTEEES. 147 

tureen of rich brown sauce. This souffle can 
be made of any kind of cold bird or fish. 
The four eggs are given for 7?iediu7n-sized 
partridges. 

Salmis of Snipe. — Clean and roast lightly 
six snipe, saving the trail. When done let 
them get cold, then cut them up and remove 
the skin, and lay them in a buttered stew- 
pan; pound the trimmings and bones in a 
mortar, and put them into a stewpan with 
two shallots, a clove, a bouquet of herbs, and 
half a pint of claret ; let this simmer until 
reduced to one half. Then add three quar- 
ters of a pint of Spanish sauce. Let these 
'Very gently simmer for half an hour, skim- 
ming frequently ; strain through a fine sieve, 
and return to the stewpan. If it is not thick 
enough to coat the spoon, reduce a little 
more. Pour this sauce over the snipe in the 
saute pan, and let it get hot Avithout boiling ; 
pile the pieces in a pyramid ; meanwhile 
chop the trail, mix with half the quantity of 
pate defoie gras and a little salt and pepper ; 



148 CHOICE COOKERY. 

spread this on croutons, bake, and use them 
to garnish the snipe. 

Fillets of Teal lolth Anchovies. — Remove 
the breasts from a pair of teal after they 
have been three parts roasted. Take care 
to preserve each half breast in good shape. 
Lay these fillets seasoned in a china fire- 
proof dish which has been well buttered and 
strewed with grated Parmesan; split two 
anchovies, remove the bone. AYash and dry 
the four halves, lay one on each fillet of teal, 
moisten with a gill of fish stock, sprinkle 
with bread crumbs and grated Parmesan 
cheese, lay small pieces of butter over, and 
bake in the oven fifteen minutes. The last 
thing before serving squeeze the juice of a 
lemon over all. 

Rabbits are so little cared for in this coun- 
try that it may seem useless to give recipes 
for using them. There are probably two rea- 
sons for the low estimate in which rabbit is 
held here. One, that as they are offered in 
market they are skinny, miserable animals. 



ENTREES. 149 

Yet there are parts of the country where 
they attain a good size, and a fine plump 
rabbit may compare favorably with fowl for 
many purposes. Indeed, English epicures 
use it in preference for mulligatawny. The 
second reason, and probably the one that is 
the real reason, for the difference in taste is 
because, being so lightly esteemed, no care is 
ever given to the preparation of them. 

On the chance that some reader may feel 
inclined to test the possibilities of the native 
rabbit, and its claims to a place in choice 
cookery, I give two or three recipes, each 
admirable in its way. Eabbits should be 
used quite fresh, and cleaned and wiped dry 
as soon after they are killed as possible. 

Grenadines of Rahhit a la Souhise. — Take 
the whole backs of two rabbits from the 
shoulders to^ the thighs, both of wdiicli you 
reject ; cut away the ribs and the thin part 
that forms the stomach, leaving only the 
backbone with solid flesh each side ; divide 
this into sections, about two joints to each. 



150 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Lard them, and then braise for one hour. 
Stand them in a circle, and pour over and 
round them a pint of brown Soubise sauce. 

Fillets of Babhit with Cucumber. — Half 
roast a rabbit, then remove the solid flesh 
from each side the backbone in long fillets. 
Cut two cucumbers and one Bermuda onion 
in thin slices, salt them, and let them drain. 
Lard the fillets of rabbit, season them, and 
lay them in a stewpan, with a pint of white 
sauce slightly thinned with white stock, the 
cucumber, and the onion. Let them simmer 
for half an hour. Lay the fillets in a circle, 
and put the cucumber and onion in the centre, 
the sauce, w^hich should be thick enough to 
mask them, over the fillets. Fried sippets 
garnish this dish. 

A Civet. — For this dish the dark-fleshed 
rabbit, or hare, as it is often called, is best. 
Cut it into meat joints ; cut half a pound of 
unsmoked bacon into slices, and fry in a 
saucepan ; then lay in the hare, and saute 
for fifteen minutes. Pour off the fat. Add 



ENTREES. , 151 

half a pint of port-wine, a bouquet garni, and 
a dozen mushrooms, and a httle pepper and 
salt ; let this simmer gently one hour ; then 
add a pint of brown sauce and twenty but- 
ton onions which have been blanched. Sim- 
mer for another half-hour. Eemove the bou- 
quet, add a gill of stewed and strained toma- 
to, half a gill of glaze, and a tablespoonf ul of 
Chutney. Serve in a pyramid, pour the 
gravy, after it is well skimmed, over the 
whole, and garnish with fried croutons. 

Timhales d'' Epinard. — Make some quenelle 
meat of chicken or veal according to direc- 
tions already given, and mix with puree of 
spinach, prepared as follows, until it is a nice 
green ; pick and wash some spinach, put it 
into salted boiling water, and boil fast for 
fifteen minutes. Drain and press it, then 
beat it through a wire sieve ; return to the 
saucepan with two ounces of butter ; pepper 
and salt ; stir till well mixed. Stir a gill of 
cream to the quenelle meat, then use enough 
of the spinach to give it a fine light-green 



152 CHOICE COOKERY. 

color. When well mixed, butter some clariole 
moulds ; nearly fill them. Then dip your fin- 
ger in cold water and press a hole in the cen- 
tre of each to the bottom ; fill it with a puree 
of ham, and then put a coating of quenelle 
meat over, and steam twenty minutes. 

Puree* of ham is prepared as follows : 
pound lean boiled ham in a mortar with 
some stock that has been boiled down to 
half glaze ; rub through a wire sieve. If too 
stiff, moisten with a little more melted glaze. 



XYII. 

COLD ENTRIES, OR CHAUDFROIDS. 

These elegant dishes are suitable for for- 
mal breakfasts, luncheons, and suppers, and 
while presenting an unusualh^ attractive ap- 
pearance, are easier to manage than less 
elaborate dishes, because they can usually be 
prepared, all but garnishing, the day before. 

Although in giving the recipes meat cooked 
for the purpose will always be directed, and 
for formal purposes no care or expense should 
be spared, the intelligent reader will see 
where she may make a very pretty dish by 
utilizing cold fowl, game, or lamb for any 
simple occasion. 

Sweetbreads an Montpellier. — Parboil a pair 
of fine white sweetbreads, after soaking them 
in salt and water an hour. Let them get cold 
between two plates under slight pressure. 



154 CHOICE COOKEEY. 

Cut them into the form of cutlets (cutlet cut- 
ters are to be obtained at the fashionable 
New York hardware stores, and at the large 
French tin-shops down-town). Have some 
firm aspic jelly not quite set ; dip each cutlet 
in it ; chop some aspic that is hard and cold 
roughly ; form a circle of it ; arrange the cut- 
lets on this; fill the centre with asparagus 
heads ; pour mayonnaise round, and garnish 
with fancy shapes of aspic, red and white 
alternately. Red aspic is colored with pulp 
of the red beet stirred into it while liquid 
and then strained out ; green is produced by 
spinach. The various shades of amber, shad- 
ing into rich brown, that are so effective 
when tastefully mingled, are due to caramel 
coloring. When colored aspic is required for 
garnishing, pour off a little into separate ves- 
sels, and color each as required. 

Chicken Salad a la Prince. — Cut the white 
meat of cold fowl into neat fillets, using a 
very sharp knife, so that there may be no 
ragged edges. Mask each piece with a mixt- 



COLD ENTREES, OR CHAUDFROIDS. 155 

ure made as follows : One tablespoonful of 
finely minced capers, two of minced boiled 
ham, three hard-boiled eggs, an anchovy 
boned and washed, and two sardines freed 
from skin. All these must be Avell pounded, 
then rubbed through a sieve ; add a teaspoon- 
ful of finely minced tarragon and chives. 
Stir all into a tablespoonful of mayonnaise 
and one of aspic, semi-fluid of course. When 
each fillet has been Avell coated with the 
mixture and has set, line a border mould 
Avith aspic jelly, ornament the fillets of chick- 
en Avith little strips of beet-root and cucum- 
ber arranged like a trellis-work. Place them 
very carefully round the mould on the layer 
of aspic, then pour in a little more aspic, 
until the border mould is full, and set it on 
ice. When about to serve have a dish well 
layered with the small leaves of lettuce. 
Drop the mould for one minute in warm 
water, and turn out on to the lettuce. Fill 
the centre with a salad composed of cucum- 
ber cut into dice, peas, string-beans cooked 



156 CHOICE COOKEKY. 

until tender (for this purpose the canned 
French string-beans serve admirably, being 
beautifully cut ready). Pour over the centre 
salad some thick mayonnaise. 

Where mayonnaise makes too rich a dish 
for the digestion, bechamel sauce may be sub- 
stituted for masking, but never for salad; 
for instance, two very simple chaudfroids 
of chicken may be made as follows : 

Chaudfroid of CJiicken, l^o. 1. — Cut up a 
young fleshy chicken into neat joints, remove 
the skin, mask each piece carefully with be- 
chamel sauce ; when quite set arrange on 
chopped aspic in a circle, garnish with strips 
of cucumber and beet ; cut the remainder of 
the cucumber and beet into neat pieces, and 
stir into a gill of mayonnaise, and use for the 
centre. This and all salads should be lightly 
seasoned before the mayonnaise is added, or 
they are apt to taste flat. 

Chaudfroid of Chicken^ Xo. 2. — Prepare 
the chicken as in last recipe, only before 
masking the joints season the bechamel well 



COLD ENTEEES, OK CHAUDFROIDS. 157 

with finely chopped tarragon ; leave out the 
mayonnaise and aspic. Pile up the pieces of 
chicken on the entree dish, and garnish with 
Roman lettuce, or, if that is not to be had, 
the hearts of Boston lettuce. 

CMckeR and Ham Cutlets. — Boil a young 
fowl with a good breast in clear stock ; take 
it out, let it get cold ; cut the breast into 
rather thin slices. The bones, skin, and trim- 
mings may be thrown back in the stock, 
which can be boiled down to make both the 
bechamel and aspic for the dish (see recipes), 
or be kept for other purposes. Take the 
slices of chicken and some very well cooked 
lean ham that is cut so thin you can see 
the knife under the slices. Melt a little be- 
chamel sauce, that must be like blanc-mange, 
pour it on a plate, and before it has time to 
cool cover the plate with the slices of chicken. 
Dip the ham into the stock (if it has been 
boiled down to jelly, otherwise into melted 
aspic), lay the ham over the chicken, then 
more thin slices of chicken. Now cover the 



158 ^CHOICE COOKERY. 

whole by means of a spoon with more be- 
chamel ; when all this sets, which, as your 
sauce has only been half melted, it will do 
quickly, you have a large white cake about 
half an inch thick. Cut this cake into small 
pieces (unless you have a cutlet cutter), as 
like a cutlet in form as possible, using a sharp 
penknife or boning - knife. Take up each 
carefully, and with the end of a silver knife 
or small spoon cover the edges with the be- 
chamel sauce, Avhich must be nearly set for 
this purpose. 

To garnish the cutlets, cut some tiny green 
leaves from pickled gherkins, and red ones 
from the skin of a red pepper-pod, and place 
two of each in the centre of each cutlet, star- 
shaped ; a touch of white sauce will make 
them stick; place a speck of parsley not 
larger than a pin's head in the centre. Stick 
a tiny lobster claAV three quarters of an inch 
long at the narrow end of the cutlet, and 
place them in a silver dish round some aspic 
of a bright amber color, chopped. Put a 



COLD ENTREES, OR CHArDFROIDS. 159 

very small sprig of parsley between each 
cutlet. 

I may here remind the reader that when 
aspic or bechamel is used for masking or for 
pouring into a mould as lining, etc., it must 
not he made hot^ only softened in a bowl set 
in warm water, just enough to be free from 
lumps. It must, of course, be stirred from 
the moment it begins to soften. The mould 
to be lined should be turned about till it is 
Avell coated, and if there is a disposition to 
run off the sides, roll it round in ice. For 
instance, when the first layer of bechamel is 
poured on the plate as directed in last recipe, 
it must be moved about until quite covered, 
yet very thinly. If it sets too soon, hold the 
bottom of the plate over steam. 

Reed-hirds in Aspic. — Take the back and 
breast bone from a dozen birds, splitting 
them down the back first. Save the feet. 
Make a force-meat of pate de foie gras and 
panada in equal proportions ; season highly, 
spread the inside of the bu'ds, sew them up 



160 CHOICE COOKERY. 

as nearly in shape as possible; bake seven 
to ten minutes, then dip them into glaze ; 
put a little paie aspic in a dozen dariole 
moulds, enough to cover the bottom a quar- 
ter of an inch, and when just set put in a 
bird breast down ; set on ice a few minutes, 
then pour in aspic to cover the bird a quarter 
of an inch. Put on ice. Turn out, and on 
the top of each strew pistachio nuts chopped 
very fine. Insert the two feet of the bird, 
scalded and dried, to stand up from the 
centre. 

Chaiidfroid of J2eed-Mrds.—'Pre])Rve as in 
last recipe with pcite de foie gvas force-meat. 
Butter a dozen dariole moulds. Put a bird 
in each, breast downward ; put the dariole 
moulds in a pan with a little water, and set 
it in the oven for fifteen minutes ; when cold, 
turn out the birds, wipe them, dip each in 
brown chaudfroid sauce, and put them on a 
dish to cool. When cold, lay them in rows 
against a pile of chopped aspic. 

Brown Chaudfroid Sauce is made by put- 



COLD ENTREES, OR CHAUDFROIDS. 161 

ting a pint of Spanish sauce, a gill of cream, 
half a pint of aspic jelly together, and boil- 
ing them until they are reduced one quarter. 
Skim constantly, and strain for use. 

White Chaiidfroid Saitce is simply becha- 
mel and aspic treated in the same way. It 
differs, of course, from plain bechamel in hav- 
ing the piquant flavor of the aspic ; in ap- 
pearance there is little difference. 
11 



XVIII. 

COLD ENTUEES. 

Iced ^ivonj SoiijHt. — This ilisli can be 
nuule of tish, gtime, or chicken, l>ut is con- 
sidereil best made of crab. Cut up the crab, 
or whatever it may be, into snu\ll pieces ; let 
it soak in mayonnaise sauce for two or three 
hours. Have some well-tiavoreil aspic jelly, 
half liquid; whip it till it is very fn^thy ; 
put some of this at the bottom of the dish it 
is to be serveil in — a silver one is most effect- 
ive ; then place a layer of crab well seasoned, 
and till it up with aspic and crab alternately 
until the dish is nearly full ; ]>lace a biind of 
stitf paper round, and till in with whipped 
aspic ; set it on ice for two hours ; take off 
the paper, and serve. 

Savo)^its. — AVithin the last few years,which 
nuiy, perhaps, be called the renaissance of 



COLD KXTREE^js. 168 

cookins: in Ensrland, since Kettner, in his 
** Bix)k of the Table," shows that in the Mid- 
dle Aires that countrv wiis famous foritscui- 
sine, while Fnince was still benighted — with- 
in the last few years, then, there has grown 
up a fashion of introducing prei>an\tions 
called sailor it's. They vary very much, from 
the tiny little houchette of something very 
piquant, to be taken between courses as an 
appetizer — which, I believe, was the original 
idea — to quite im|>ortant dishes suitable as 
entrt'cs for formal bi'eakfasts or sup|)ers. 
But it is with the oriafinal "savorv" as a 
piquant mouthful that they will take their 
place in this boiik. So imiKirtant a }xirt 
have they come to play in English menus 
(I am not now s|)eaking of simple dinners) 
that the invention of a new "tsiwory" is 
something to l>e pn:»ud of, and it is said that 
tlie very best are inventeil by the hons vn^mts 

themselves, seKlom bv the chef. One ladv 

« « « 

has written a lKK>k of which ^n*on\s is the 
only l)ranch of cooking treateil, and she says 



164 * CHOICE COOKERY. 

in her preface, " Savories being at present so 
fashionable, and novelties in them so eagerly 
inquired for, I have been induced to publish 
a small book on the subject." 

In looking over any list of small savories 
we find many of our old friends in it, such 
as cheese canapes^ angels on horsehack^ anchovy 
toast, etc. With these familiar dainties we 
will have nothing to do, only the mention 
of them will serve to show that any little 
piquant morsel may be used as an appetizer 
served as hors d^muvres. 

The Savage Cluh Canapes. — These must be 
made small enough not to require dividing — 
in other words, can be eaten at one mouth- 
ful. Cut slices of stale Vienna bread a quar- 
ter of an inch thick, stamp out from them 
with a very small cutter circles about the 
size of a fiftj^-cent piece. Saute these in a 
little hot butter till they are a very pale 
brown. Lay them on paper when done, to 
absorb grease. Stone as many small olives 
as you have guests ; fillet half as many small 



COLD ENTKEES. 165 

anchovies — that is to say, split them, and re- 
move the bones and scales ; wash them, dry 
them, and roll each one up as small as jDOSsi- 
ble, and insert it in an oliv^e in place of the 
stone. Now trim one end of the olive so that 
it will stand ; then put a drop of thick may- 
onnaise on the centre of one of the rounds of 
fried bread, which, of course, must be quite 
cold ; stand the stuffed olive on it neatly, and 
put one drop of mayonnaise on the top, to 
cover the opening in the olive. A variation, 
and I think an improvement, on this bouchee, 
is to use a little softened aspic to attach the 
olive, and a small quantity finely chopped to 
crown it. Still another plan is to put a tiny 
disk of bright-red beet on the top, using as- 
pic to cement it there. 

Canapes d la Bismai'clc. — Cut circles with 
a small cutter from slices of stale bread a 
quarter of an inch thick ; saute in butter till 
they are a light brown ; spread over each 
when cold a thin layer of anchovy butter ; 
curl round on each an anchovy well washed, 



166 CHOICE COOKERY. 

boned, and trimmed; sprinkle very finely 
shred olives over them. Anchovy butter is 
two parts butter and one of anchovy paste. 

Caviary Canapes. — Cat some slices of bi'ead 
a quarter of an inch thick ; cat disks from 
them with a small round cutter; fry tliem 
pale brown in butter. When about to use 
them chop a large handful of w^ater-cress 
leaves very fine, taking care to press them in a 
cloth to remove all w^ater before you begin to 
chop ; when they are almost as fine as pulp, 
mix with them an equal amount of butter ; 
when well blended, spread each canape with 
it, and spread a layer of caviare on the top. 

Prawns en Surprise. — Cut some small 
rounds of bread and butter, not more than 
two inches in diameter and a quarter inch 
thick. Peel some prawns; steep them in 
mayonnaise sauce a few minutes ; place three 
on each round of bread-and-butter, with a 
small piece of water-cress on each. Place 
over all some Avhipped aspic jelly ; strew 
lobster coral over them. 



COLD ENTEEES. 167 

Prince of Wales Canajpes. — Take some fine 
prawns, three anchovies, two gherkins, and 
two truffles. Bone the anchovies and wash 
them, peel the prawns, and then cut all the 
ingredients into very small dice. Make a 
sauce as follows : Bruise a hard-boiled yolk 
of Qgg in a mortar with a tablespoonf ul of 
salad oil, a saltspoonf ul of mustard ; mix 
with this an anchovy and a teaspoonful of 
tarragon that has been scalded and chopped ; 
pound all well together, and pass through a 
sieve with a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar 
and a speck of cayenne ; mix enough of this 
with the prawns, etc., to season the mixture. 
Salt, it will be observed, is not mentioned, 
because the anchovies and prawns may be 
salt, but this can only be known to the cook 
by tasting. Butter some small water bis- 
cuits (crackers), put a small teaspoonful of 
tlie mixture on each, and cover with finely 
ciiopped aspic. Garnish by putting a spot 
of green gherkin on one, a spot of red beet 
on another, and on a third one of truffle, and 
so on alternatelv. 



168 CHOICE COOKEKY. 

Shrimp Canapes. — Fry some rounds of 
bread as directed for other canapes. Make 
some shrimp butter by pounding equal quan- 
tities of shrimps, from which heads, tails, and 
shells have been removed, and fresh butter 
till they form a smooth mass; spread the 
fried bread with it. Place whole shrimps 
on the top in the shape of a rosette, in the 
centre of which put a tiny pinch of chopped 
parsley. 

Cheese Biscuits a la St. James. — Take three 
tablespoonf uls of the finest flour, half a pound 
of cream curds, and five ounces of Brie cheese, 
which has been carefully scraped, and a pinch 
of salt ; pound all in a mortar ; add five ounces 
of softened butter and three eggs, to make a 
very stiff paste, which must be rolled very 
thin, and cut into round biscuits. Bake in 
a very quick oven, and serve hot. 

Klushis of Cream Cheese. — Take half a 
pound of fresh butter, six eggs, six table- 
spoonfuls of cream cheese, a pinch of pow- 
dered sugar, salt, and sufficient grated bread 



COLD ENTREES. 169 

crumbs to make a paste, adding cream if it 
crmnbles ; mix Avell together, and roll into 
small balls ; poach them in boiling water un- 
til firm (no longer). Serve hot, with a spoon- 
ful of poivrade sauce on each. 

Cold Cheese Souffles. — Grate one and a half 
ounces of Gruyere cheese ; the same of Par- 
mesan. Whip half a pint of cream and a 
gill of aspic jelly to a high froth ; stir in the 
cheese ; season with salt, cayenne, and made 
mustard to taste. Fill little paper baskets 
or very small ramequin cases, grate cheese 
over the top, and set on ice to get firm. 

The above mixture may be frozen just as 
you would ice-cream, but very firm, then cut 
out in little cubes, and serve on canapes of 
fried bread ; it is then called " Croutes de 
Fromage Glace." 

Oysters a la St. George. — Take the beards 
from two dozen oysters ; put the melt (or 
soft roe) of two Yarmouth bloaters into a 
saute pan with two ounces of butter ; dry 
and flour the oysters, and saute them with 



170 CHOICE COOKEEY. 

the melt. Have some squares of bread fried 
a nice light brown ; place a nice piece of the 
melt on each square, and an oyster on top ; 
squeeze a few drops of lemon juice on each, 
and serve very hot. 

Allumettes. — For these fantastic little tri- 
fles you require anchovies preserved in oil — 
not in salt ; they are found at all Italian gro- 
ceries and at the larger American grocers'. 
Wipe them free from scales and oil ; cut each 
into long, thin strips. Have ready some plain 
pastry rolled very thin ; envelop each strip 
of anchovy in pastry ; pinch closely, so that 
it will not burst open, and fry in very hot 
fat for a half -minute, or saute them in but- 
ter till crisp and yellow. Serve log-house 
fashion, using two allumettes for each cross- 
ing instead of one ; put fried parsley in the 
corners, and serve very hot. 

Eggs <l la St. James. — Take as many eggs 
as you have guests, and boil them hard in 
buttered dariole moulds ; the moulds must 
be large enough to hold the egg when broken 



COLD ENTEEES. 171 

into it, but not much larger. When quite 
cold remove the eggs ; slice off the white at 
one end of each, taking care to preserve the 
shape. Scoop out the yolk ; mix this with a 
teaspoonful of chopped truffles, a little pep- 
per and salt, and put it back very neatly into 
the whites. Coat the eggs with aspic jelly 
several times. Serve them upside down, that 
is, the uncut part upward. Put a spoonful 
of half-mayonnaise (mayonnaise mixed with 
whipped cream) on each, and a few specks of 
chopped truffle. 

A variety of this dish has anchovy paste 
in very small quantity in place of truffle, and 
the mayonnaise just made pink with it. 



XIX. 

GALANTINES, BALLOTINES, ETC. 

Galantines are so useful and handsome a 
dish in a large family, or one where many 
visitors are received, that it is well worth 
while to learn the art of boning birds in or- 
der to achieve them. IS^or, if the amateur 
cook is satisfied Avith the unambitious mode 
of boning hereafter to be described, need the 
achievement be very difficult. 

Experts bone a bird whole without break- 
ing the skin, but to accomplish it much prac- 
tice is required ; and even where it is desir- 
able to preserve the shape of the bird, as 
when it is to be braised, or roasted and glazed 
for serving cold, it^can be managed with care 
if boned the easier way. HoAvever, if nice 
white milk-fed veal can be obtained, a very 
excellent galantine may be made from it, and 



GALANTINES, BALLOTINES, ETC. 173 

to my mind to be preferred to fowl, because, 
as a matter of fact, when boned there is such 
a thin sheet of meat that it but serves as a 
covering for the force-meat (very often sau- 
sage-meat), and although it makes a savory 
and handsome dish, it really is only glorified 
sausage-meat, much easier to produce in some 
other way. This is, of course, not the case 
with turkey ; but a boned turkey is so large 
a dish that a private family might find it 
too much except for special occasions. On 
the other hand, galantines of game, although 
the birds may be still smaller, are so full of 
flavor that it overwhelms that of the dressing. 
The following process of boning, however, 
applies to all birds. To accomplish the work 
with ease and success, a French boning-knife 
is desirable, but in the absence of one a sharp- 
pointed case-knife may do. Place the bird 
before you, breast down, with the head tow- 
ards you. Cut a straight line down the back 
through skin and flesh to the bone. Release 
with the left thumb and forefinger the skin 



174 CHOICE COOKERY. 

and flesh on the left side nearest to you, and 
with the right hand keep cutting away the 
flesh from the bone, puUing it away clear as 
it is cut with the left hand. AVhen you reach 
the Aving joint cut it clean away, leaving the 
bone in the wing, and continue cutting with 
the knife close to the bone until all the meat 
from the left breast is released. Return to 
the back and continue to separate the meat 
from the bone, always keeping the edge of 
the knife pressed close to the latter, until the 
leg is reached ; twist it round, which will en- 
able you to get the skin over it, and cut the 
joint from the body bone. Proceed with the 
right side in the same way, using your left 
hand for cutting and your right to free the 
meat (to some this would be very awkward, 
and when it is so turn the bird round). The 
bird Avill now be clear of the carcass. Lay 
the bird flat on the board, inside upward, 
then cut out the wing-bone and proceed to 
the legs ; cut the meat on the inside of each 
thigh down to the bone and clear the meat 



GALANTINES, BALLOTINES, ETC. 175 

from it, cutting it each side until you can lift 
the bone out ; then free the drumstick in the 
same Avay. 

If it be intended to stuff the bird in form, 
it would be necessary to bone the leg and 
wings from the inside, but for a galantine it 
is useless trouble, as they are to be drawn in- 
side the bird. Spread out the bird, having 
drawn legs and Avings inside, season with a 
teaspoonf ul of salt and half a saltspoonful of 
white pepper mixed together, and rubbed 
over the flesh, w^hich must have been made 
as even as possible by cutting the thick parts 
and spreading them over the thin ones. If 
there are any bits of meat clinging to the 
bones they must be carefully gathered to- 
gether and chopped with a pound of veal and 
two ounces of lean cold boiled ham, with four 
ounces of fat, sweet, salt pork. (Butter may 
be substituted if pork is objected to). When 
all is chopped as fine as sausage-meat, season 
rather highly with j^epper and salt. Spread 
a layer an inch thick over the bird; then 



176 CHOICE COOKERY. 

add some long strips of tongue, some black 
truffles cut into dice half an inch square, and 
a few pistachio nuts. Dispose these, which 
may be called the ornamental adjuncts of 
the galantine, judiciously, so that when cut 
cold they will be well distributed. Cover 
carefully with another layer of force-meat, 
fold both sides over so that the force-meat 
will be well enclosed, form it into a bolster- 
shaped roll, tie it up in a linen cloth securely 
with string at each end, and sew the cloth 
evenly along the middle, so that the shape 
will keep even. Put it into a stewpan with 
stock enough to cover it, two onions, two 
carrots sliced, a stick of celery, a small bunch 
of parsley, a dozen peppercorns, an ounce 
of salt, and the bones of the bird, well 
cracked. Let it simmer gently for three 
hours and a half. Take it up, strain the 
liquor, and let the galantine get nearly cold. 
Take off the cloth ; wring it quite dry ; put 
it on again, rolling the galantine as tight as 
possible ; tie firmly, and place it on a platter ; 



GALANTINES, BALLOTINES, ETC. 177 

cover with another platter, and place a heavy 
weight upon it to press it into shape. Let 
the stock get cold. Take off the grease. 
Add a half-teaspoonful of sugar and the juice 
of a quarter of a lemon to the stock, and re- 
duce by rapid boiling to a half-glaze, that is 
to say, a jelly firm enough to cut into forms 
without beino: toyo^h. Clear with white of 
egg in the usual way, and when quite trans- 
parent pour part into shallow dishes, leaving 
enough to cover the galantine. Color one 
dish a rich clear brown ; leave the rest light. 
When the jelly thickens, but is not quite set, 
cover the galantine with it half an inch 
thick. When the jelly is cold, cut it into 
what are called croutons, which may mean 
vandyked strips, to be laid across, triangles, 
squares, or any fancy shapes ; the pieces and 
trimmings are chopped to scatter over the 
dish or lay in small piles round. 

Bcdlotines are small galantines made by 
treating small birds as directed in last recipe, 
only that the force-meat should have a larger 
12 



178 CHOICE COOKEEY. 

proportion of truffles, and be made of the 
same kind of bird ; for instance, grouse would 
have rich force-meat of grouse. One grouse, 
however, would make two or four ballotines ; 
quails make two, to be served as individuals. 
Galantine of Breast of Yeal. — Bone a 
breast of young white veal very carefully, 
spread it out as flat as possible on the board, 
pare the meat at the ends for about an inch 
so that the skin may project beyond. Take 
all the scraps of meat that may have come 
from boning, provided they are not sinewy ; 
take also twelve ounces of veal cutlet, and 
half the quantity of fat unsmoked bacon. 
Chop very fine, seasoning all rather highly. 
When the meat is fine, season the inside of 
the veal. Mix Avith the force-meat tongue, 
truffles, and pistachio-nuts or olives, all cut 
into half-inch dice (the tongue larger). So 
mix these that they Avill come at regular in- 
tervals through the stufflng. Eoll the breast 
round the stuffing, which is not spread, but 
laid in a mass, and sew the veal together. 



GALANTINES, BALLOTINES, ETC. 179 

Fasten it up in a cloth, tie securely at the 
ends, then tie bands of tape round at inter- 
vals to keep it in shape. 

Braise this galantine for six hours in stock, 
which may be made of a small knuckle of 
veal and the bones and trimmings. Vege- 
tables as directed for chicken galantine. 

Let the galantine be cold before it is un- 
tied. Garnish and glaze as directed for 
chicken. 

Galantine is occasionally made of sucking 
pig, and is very popular in France. The pig 
must be carefully boned, all but the head and 
feet. A sufficient quantity of veal, of fat un- 
smoked bacon, and of bread panada must be 
chopped and pounded to make enough force- 
meat to stuff the pig in the proportion of 
one part bacon, two panada, and three of 
veal, seasoned with a teaspoonf ul of onion 
juice and two of powdered sage. 

The pig's liver must have been boiled in 
stock, and cut in dice. There must be fillets 
or strips of rabbit or chicken, a few chopped 



180 CHOICE COOKERY. 

truffles and olives. Mix well. L^y in the 
fillets as you stuff the pig, and when full sew 
up the opening. Try to keep the shape as 
near as possible. Then braise slowly for 
four to ^Ye hours, as directed for galantine 
of veal. Do not remove the cloth till it is 
cold. 



XX. 

HOW TO " FILLET."— COLD GAME PIES. 

I HAVE spoken several times of '' filleting." 
To some readers an explanation of the term 
may be necessary. To " cut up " a bird 
does not indicate the meaning, nor does the 
term " to carve " it do so, because to carve 
means to cut up or divide with an exact ob- 
servance of joints and ''cuts.-' Filleting, 
when applied to anything without bones, as 
the breast of a bird or boned fish, means to 
cut into very neat strips that are thicker 
than slices ; but when you are directed to 
'' fillet " a grouse or a chicken, it is intended 
that you should cut it into small neat por- 
tions regardless of joints and without the 
least mangling of it ; therefore a very sharp 
knife must be used, and either a small sharp 
cleaver or a large cook's knife only to 



182 CHOICE COOKERY. 

be employed when a bone has to be cut 
through. 

To Fillet Cooked Birds : Grouse^ Pheasants^ 
or Poultry. — Cut the bird in half straight 
down the middle of the breast-bone, using a 
large sharp knife for the purpose. Lay each 
half on the table and take out the breast-bone 
from either side. If the bird is a large fowl, 
duck, or partridge, each breast will make 
three fillets, and leave a good piece with the 
wing, but average birds only make two breast 
fillets. Chop off the pinions within an inch 
of the meat, then cut the wing in two neatly ; 
drumsticks are to be chopped off close to the 
meat, and divided into two fillets (if a large 
chicken or duck ; leave game w^hole) ; cut the 
thigh in two also. Trim very neatly ; leave 
no hanging skin ; indeed, when filleting for 
chaitdfroids the skin should be entirely re- 
moved, and both it and the leg-bones are re- 
moved for pies. When possible, it is better 
not to use the drumsticks. From a. chicken 
they make an admirable " devil," and from 



COLD GAME PIES. 183 

game they help the bones and trimmings to 
make a rich gravy ; so it is no Avaste to dis- 
card them. 

Cold pies are of two kinds : the one cooked 
in a terrine or dish without pastry ; the other 
in what the English call a " raised paste," 
and the French a pclte chaude. Those with 
paste — which is seldom eaten — are far hand- 
somer, but do not keep so well — that is to 
say, they must be eaten within three or four 
days even in winter ; while in a terrine care- 
fully kept in a cool airy place the pie will be 
good at the end of three weeks. 

On the other hand, the pie in a terrine 
is much less trouble to make. Proceed as 
follows : 

Game Pie. — Make some force-meat thus : 
Fry a quarter of a pound of fat ham cut in 
dice with half a pound of lean veal. Take 
the ham up before it gets brown, as you do 
not need it crisp ; when the veal is cooked 
take that up also, and if there is enough of 
the ham fat in the pan, put in half a pound 



184 CHOICE COOKERY. 

of calf's liver cut up in dice, if not, saute it in 
butter. In sauteing all these they must be 
often stirred, as you want them well cooked 
and yet not very brown. AVhen done they 
must be finely chopped, then pounded in a 
mortar, with a small teaspoonful of salt, and 
half a saltspoonful of pepper. Then add 
a dozen mushrooms chopped, and mix the 
whole. 

A game pie is usually made rather large, 
and the greater variety of game used, the 
better ; partridge, pheasant, grouse, hare, all 
help one another, but at least two kinds are 
necessary. It must be boned and neatly fil- 
leted into small joints. Put on all the bones 
and trimmings to stew in three pints, of wa 
ter, with a good-sized carrot, onion, a stick 
of celery, a small bouquet, a clove, a tea- 
spoonful of sugar, one of salt, and a little 
pepper; boil all this until the bones look 
white and dry when out of the stock. Strain, 
and reduce by rapid boiling to a half -glaze ; 
put a layer of the force-meat at the bottom 



COLD GAME PIES. 185 

of the dish, then one of boned game, with a 
sprinlding of pepper and salt, and either a 
little finely chopped parsley or, what is far 
better, a few thin slices, of truffles ; pour over 
a little of the reduced stock ; fill the dish in 
this w^ay to within .an inch of the top ; make 
a plain flour-and-water paste, lay it on the 
pie, and make a hole in the centre, bake 
slowdy in a pan of hot water. AYhen cold, 
remove the paste, cover the top W' ith chopped 
aspic, fold a napkin, and serve the terrine on 
it, with a w^reath of parsley round the base. 
Game pie is not a dish to be eaten at one or 
even two meals (unless very small), therefore 
the aspic must be fresh each time it is served. 
French Method of Making a Game Pie or 
Pate Chaude. — Make a paste of two pounds 
of flour and one of lard or butter, with salt 
to taste and about half a pint of water; 
knead it into a smooth, rather hard paste ; 
put it into a damp napkin for an hour. But- 
ter a raised pie dish — a tin one that opens to 
release the pie — line it wath the paste rolled 



186 CHOICE COOKERY. 

half an inch thick, letting it come half an 
inch above the dish ; line the inside of the 
paste with buttered paper, bottom and sides, 
and fill with rice or corn meal; cover with 
another piece of buttered paper, wet the top 
of the pastry all round, and lay a cover of 
thin pastry over it ; trim very neatly, make 
a hole in the centre, and ornament with 
leaves cut from the paste and laid on ; the 
under side should be slightly moistened to 
make them adhere. Brush the surface with 
well-beaten egg, and bake about an hour, 
when it should be a nice golden brown. 
Take off the cover; after it has slightly 
cooled, remove the rice or meal and the but- 
tered paper ; take the case from the mould, 
and brush it all over with egg inside and 
out ; set it in the oven until the glazing dries, 
and any part that may not be sufficiently 
brown becomes the color of the cover, which, 
being glazed at first, is not returned to the 
oven. 

Preparation for Filling the Case. — Fillet 



COLD GAME PIES. 187 

chickens, guinea-hens, partridges, or grouse 
(leave pigeons or quails Avhole, but bone 
them). Put sufficient pieces of one sort, or 
all sorts mixed, to fill the pate chaude case 
into a saute pan, with two ounces of butter, 
and saute till lightly colored. Take them 
out, and put them in a stewpan with a quart 
of reduced consomme, half a pint of mush- 
rooms sliced, a dozen truffles cut into dice 
(half -inch), a teaspoonful of salt, a little pep- 
per, and a wineglass of sherry, and let them 
simmer very gently, not hoil, for half an hour, 
or until very tender. Let them cool, and 
when lukewarm arrange them in the pate 
case, leaving the centre hollow, which fill 
with mushrooms and truffles. The liquor in 
which they Avere stewed must be then poured 
over them. The cover of a pate chaude case 
is often not used, and aspic jelly covers the 
top of the pie. 

JEnglish ^fanner of Making Game Pie in 
a Crust. — Use at least two kinds of game, 
which for this purpose must not be long kept ; 



188 CHOICE COOKERY. 

high game is acceptable to epicures when 
roasted or stewed, but never in a pie. Dis- 
card all parts blackened by shot. Cut into 
neat joints, from which bones must be re- 
moved. Take all the fragments from the 
carcass after the breast and joints are re- 
moved, and the flesh of a small bird or hare, 
or, failing that, some calf's liver fried in dice ; 
pound whichever you may have for force- 
meat in a mortar wath four ounces of bacon 
that has been boiled ; when the whole forms 
a paste (from w^hich you have removed all 
strings, sinew, or gristle wdiile pounding), 
season with pepper and salt — a teaspoonful 
of salt to a pound of force-meat, and a. scant 
half saltspoonful of pepper. Pat on the 
bones, witlioid t'egetables, in cold w^ater to 
simmer until it is a rich broth, wdiich strain, 
and boil rapidly till a little set on ice in a 
saucer will jelly. Make wdiat is called 
'' raised " paste in the follow^ing Avay : To 
two pounds of flour use three quarters of a 
pound of butter and half a pint of scalding 



COLD GAME PIES. 189 

milk ; pour this into a hole in the centre of 
the flour, and knead into a firm paste, adding 
a little more milk if necessary (but it seldom 
is). This paste is not to be rolled, but beaten 
out with the hand while warm to half an 
inch thickness. Line a well-buttered meat- 
pie mould, with a hinge opening at the side ; 
leave half an inch of paste above the mould ; 
trim off neatly with scissors. Then lay in 
the game and force-meat in alternate layers, 
seasoning the joints with pepper and salt as 
you lay them. A few slices of tongue and 
truffles to form one layer are desirable. 
When the mould is full, lay on the cover, 
moisten the under edge, and pinch round in 
tiny scallops. Make a hole in the centre, 
round which put an ornament ; stick in a 
bone to prevent the hole closing, and bake 
two to four hours in a moderate oven, ac- 
cording to size, remembering always that 
the crust will not be injured by long baking, 
and that the game in this pie is uncooked. 
When it is removed from the oven, let it 



190 CHOICE COOKEKY. 

stand half an hour, taking the mould off, 
that it may cool ; then brush the sides and 
top Avith an egg beaten with milk, and re- 
turn the pie to the oven that the sides may 
brown ; cover the top, if it is already highly 
colored, with a sheet of paper. Remove the 
bone from the centre, insert a small funnel, 
and after removing all fat from it, pour in 
the gravy from the bones. The gravy must 
be poured very slowly or it will bubble up, 
and care must be taken to have all the pie 
will hold, yet not a drop too much, or it will 
ooze somewhere. These pies, when quite 
cold, may be sent any distance, and are much 
used in Eno^land and Scotland for huntino^- 
parties, besides being a standard breakfast 
and luncheon dish. The crust is merely a 
frame to hold the game. 



XXL 

GARNISHES. 

In all choice cookery the appearance of 
dishes has to be carefully studied. However 
good the taste may be, the effect will be 
spoiled if its appearance on the table does 
not come up to the expectation raised by the 
name on the menu. For this reason the sub- 
ject of garnishes requires to be considered 
apart from the dishes they adorn. In the 
old time garnishes were few and simple, and 
when not simple, very ugl}^, as the camellias 
cut from turnips and stained with beet juice. 
]^owadays garnishes are many, and many so 
termed form part of the dish, as what are 
termed, " floating garnishes for soup," que- 
nelles, etc. Garnishes that are merely orna- 
mental need not be so expensively made as 
those intended for eatmg. Foremost among 



192 CHOICE COOKERY. 

fashionable floating garnishes for soup are 
the colored custards known as pate royale ; 
they are perfectly easy to make, yet very ef- 
fective served in clear bouillon. 

Colored Custard. — Prepare the custard 
with five yolks of eggs, a gill of cream or 
strong bouillon, and a pinch of salt ; butter 
small saucers or cups ; divide the custard in 
three — color one with spinach juice or pulp 
of green asparagus, another with red tomato 
pulp or the pulp of red carrot boiled, and a 
third with pulp of beets. A few drops of co- 
chineal may be added to intensify the color 
of the last, Avhich is apt to be a beautiful 
pink instead of red. The custard for which 
pulps are used must be strained after they 
are added, expressing as much of the juice as 
possible. The custard should be flavored 
delicately with the vegetable used for color. 

Spinach Juice is very frequently directed 
to be used as coloring, but scarcely anywhere 
is any indication given that the juice without 
preparation is of very little use. It should 



GARNISHES. 193 

be prepared as follows : Take a large hand- 
ful of fresli green spinach, wash it, and re- 
move decayed leaves only; drain well, then 
pound in a mortar or chopping-bowl until 
quite mashed. Let it stand a quarter of an 
hour, then squeeze the mass in a cloth, and 
put the green water into a cup, w^hich set 
over the fire in a small saucepan of water ; 
watch the scum rise ; when it stands quite 
thick at the top and turns a vivid green, re- 
move at once (if it remains on the fire after 
this the green darkens); pour the contents 
of the cup through cheese-cloth or thin mus- 
lin laid in a strainer. The scum that re- 
mains is your coloring matter. It must be 
carefully scraped off with a spoon, and mix 
Avith the custard only as much as is required 
to give a delicate green tint. If any is left 
it may be mixed with an equal quantity of 
salt and put away ; it loses color, however, 
after a few days. 

The colored custards must be set in water, 
a small piece of buttered paper over each, 
13 



194 CHOICE COOKERY. 

and the water allowed to boil gently round 
them till they are firm. Let them get quite 
cold ; then cut them into cubes or diamonds. 

Profiterolles. — Perhaps the next in popu- 
larity of these floating garnishes Sire pj^ojite- 
rolles^ or " prophet's rolls," as cooks call them. 
They are made exactly like those intended 
for dessert, omitting sweetening of course, 
and a very small quantity is required, as they 
must be dropped no larger than a pea, and 
baked 2^^ale fawn-color. 

Put a gill of water and a pinch of salt and 
tw§ ounces of butter in a small saucepan ; as 
soon as they begin to boil draw the sauce- 
pan back and stir in four ounces of flour; 
beat well over the fire with a wooden spoon 
until it becomes a soft paste, then add the 
yolks of two eggs and white of one, beating- 
each yolk in separately. It will be seen that 
the paste is similar to that made for cream 
cakes. 

A similar garnish is made in the following 
way : Beat an ^gg with a pinch of salt, and 



GARNISHES. 195 

then stir in as much dry sifted flour as the 
egg will moisten; work it well with the 
hands till it is elastic, although stiff. Roll it 
on a pastry board until it is as thin as paper, 
then roll it on a clean linen cloth still thin- 
ner, and leave it a quarter of an hour to dr}^ 
Then fold the paste, j)ress it very tightly to- 
gether, and with a tin cylinder, not larger 
in diameter than a cent, cut out, with consid- 
erable pressure, as many small disks as you 
require to allow five or six to each ]ilate of 
soup. Have ready in a small saucepan some 
smolcing hot lard. Drop the disks in ; they 
will puff and swell till they are like marbles. 
Stir them, and take them out of the fat ; 
they require only a few seconds to brown, 
and must be taken out very pale. Add to 
the soup the last thing before serving. 

While aspic jelly is certainly the hand- 
somest of garnishes for cold dishes, it is gen- 
erally part of the food itself, and should not 
be so lavishly used that when helped there 
is more jelly than meat served. Where the 



196 CHOICE COOKEEY. 

jelly is intended only for a garnish not to be 
eaten, simple gelatine is sufficient. For in- 
stance, a large platter containing a galan- 
tine or a chaudfroid may have a handsome 
wreath glued on the border, of red and green 
leaves, or holly leaves and red berries, or any 
device that need not be disturbed by the 
carver. 

For such decorations as these gelatine is 
melted in proportion of three ounces to a 
scant quart of water, cleared with white of 
egg, and then colored pale yellow with car- 
amel or saffron, vivid red with cochineal, 
and bright green with spinach ; it saves time 
and trouble to let this congeal on dishes in 
thin sheets. Small cutters of ivy, oak, and 
other leaves can readily be purchased at the 
large house-furnishing stores. 

One word here about uneatable decorations, 
never admit them at a children's party ; they 
are the very part of the feast the little peo- 
ple will most crave ; red leaves for them must 
be of red currant-jelly, yellow of white, etc. 



GARNISHES. 197 

'' Forced butter " is another form of gar- 
nish which adds much to the appearance of 
glazed ham or tongue. It is butter beaten 
to a white cream, then put in a forcer, and a 
pattern traced on the ham^ w^hich must be 
followed just as in icing a cake. 

A Few Ways of Cooking Yegetahles. — It is 
not intended to go into the general cooking 
of vegetables, although it may be said that 
even the choicest cooking can offer no great- 
er luxury, or, alas ! a greater rarity, than a 
dish of early peas or asparagus i)erfectly 
cooked. But this is not the place to remedy 
the Avholesale spoiling of summer vegetables 
that goes on in almost every kitchen. I will 
only give what may be a few new ways of 
preparing familiar vegetables. 

Stuffed Artichokes. — Wash the artichokes ; 
boil till nearly tender ; drain them ; remove 
the middle leaves and " chokes " (this is the 
fibrous part round the base) ; lay in each a 
little rich force-meat, and put them in the 
oven to cook until the meat is done. Serve 
with rich brown gravy. 



198 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Fried Artichokes. — Cut in " slices length- 
wise ; remove the chokes, cut off the tops of 
the leaves, wash them in vinegar and water, 
drain them, and dip them in frying batter. 
Fry in very hot oil or lard. Serve with fried 
parsley sprinkled with salt. 

Beet-root Fritters. — Cut boiled beets in 
slices; slice raw onions; scald them; dry 
them well; then lay one slice of onion, 
sprinkled with chopped chervil, pepper, and 
salt, between two slices of beet. Dip them 
carefully in frying batter, and plunge into 
boiling fat ; when pale brown take them up. 

Caulifloiver Fritter's. — Parboil the cauli- 
flower — that is to say, boil until it begins to 
be tender — about fifteen minutes ; then plunge 
it into ice-cold water; this keeps it white. 
Break it up into branches. Dip each one 
into thick bechamel sauce slightly warmed ; 
let them get cold ; then take each piece 
separately and dip it into carefully made fry- 
ing batter, and drop them into boiling lard ; 
fry a pale brown, and serve garnished with 
fried parsley. 



XXII. 

VARIOUS WAYS OF SERVING VEGETABLES. 

Stuffed Cucumhers. — Cut large-sized young 
cucumbers into slices about two inches thick, 
rejecting the ends. Peel, and remove the 
seeds ; scald the slices for ten minutes, plunge 
them into cold water, and drain them. Line 
a fire-proof china dish with very thin slices 
of unsmoked bacon which has been scalded ; 
make some veal force-meat such as directed 
for galantines ; fill the holes in the centre of 
the rings of cucumber till it is level with the 
surface on both sides ; wrap each up in a slice 
of bacon broad enough to cover it. Tie round 
Avith a string, pour a pint of strong stock into 
the dish, and bake twenty minutes in a slow 
oven. AYhen done, take up the cucumber, 
drain, and remove the bacon carefully so as 
not to disturb the stuffing. Lay in a dish, 
and serve with Robert sauce. 



200 CHOICE COOKEEY. 

In the following recipes the mushrooms to 
be used are the large flap ones. When canned 
ones will serve, the fact will be stated. 

Mushrooms Stuffed a la Liiculliis. — Wash, 
dry, and trim large mushrooms ; chop up the 
stalks and broken ones fine with a teaspoon- 
ful of minced parsley, pepper, salt, and a 
tomato ; make these hot in a tablesjDoonful 
of butter. Fill the mushrooms with the mixt- 
ure, place them on a buttered baking -dish, 
and bake six minutes, basting them once or 
twice with clarified butter. 

Mushrooms and Tomatoes. — Toast some 
slices of bread, cut them into rounds two 
inches in diameter, and butter them. Peel 
some firm tomatoes, cut them into thick slices, 
and lay them on the toast. On the top of 
each place a peeled mushroom. Put them on 
a dish that can go to table, pour a little clari- 
fied butter over them, put them in a hot oven 
for three minutes, and baste well. Serve hot 
and quickly. 

Mashroom Jelly. — Take two pounds of 



VARIOUS WATS OF SERVING VEGETABLES. 201 

mushrooms, put them in a stewpan over the 
fire with a gill of strong consomme. Squeeze 
in a few drops of lemon juice, add a little 
pepper and salt, unless the consomme was 
salt enough. Melt in a gill of water half an 
ounce of gelatine, and strain it. When the 
mushrooms are quite soft, pass them through 
a sieve, mixed with the gelatine, and pour 
the mixture into a mould which has been 
rinsed with water. "When set, turn out and 
garnish with finely chopped aspic, and a few 
cherry tomatoes if in season. 

3fushroom Baskets. — Make some puff- 
paste ; roll it out very thin. Line some small 
suitably shaped moulds (darioles will do very 
nicely) ; fill the centre with uncooked rice or 
flour to keep the shape while baking; cut 
some strips of paste, twist them, and bend 
them into the shape of handles ; bake them 
very pale. When the pastry cases are done, 
empty out the rice, remove them from the 
moulds, and fill with the following mixture : 
chop as many canned mushrooms as you re- 



203 CHOICE COOKERY. 

quire with a small shallot, squeeze to them 
the juice and pulp of a large tomato, and j^ut 
them in a stewpan with a tablespoonful of 
butter and a tablespoonful of very thick white 
sauce. Stir till about the consistency to eat 
with a fork. Squeeze a few drops of lemon 
juice over the top. Put the handles in so that 
they stand over the tops. Decorate with fried 
parsley. 

The large Spanish or Portuguese onion that 
has of late years appeared in the markets is 
not often properly cooked. It is the most 
delicate and delicious of all onions, lacking 
the usual intense heat and rank odor. For 
this reason persons who Avish to eat onions, 
either for health or inclination, Avill find this 
large onion cut up with ordinary salad dress- 
ing a great improvement even on Bermudas. 
This onion is full of a milky juice, which is 
lost in cooking if it is cut. Tiierefore, where 
a simple dish is required, the best way is to 
boil it, without peeling or trimming, for three 
hours if it weighs three pounds (it must be 



VAEIOUS WAYS OF SERVING VEGETABLES. 203 

tender right through) ; then take it up, strip 
it, and remove the root, stalk, etc. Pour 
over it a rich white sauce, and serve, taking 
care that the gravy that runs from the onion 
is served with it. A still better wav when 
an oven is not Avanted is to bake them. Put 
them in a dripping-pan in the oven without 
removing peel or stalk. Bake at least four 
hours in a moderate oven. It will burn and 
blacken outside, which is of no consequence. 
Keep it turned so that the darkening may 
not go deeper one side than the other. AYhen 
quite tender (but do not tr\" it until it begins 
to shrink, or you will let out the juices), so 
that a knitting-needle will run through it, 
take it out of the oven, strip off three or four 
skins, remove root and stalk, and place the 
onion, without breaking it, on a dish ; put a 
piece of butter as large as an egg, with a salt- 
spoonful of salt and a quarter one of pepper 
worked in it, on the onion ; cover it, and put 
in the oven till the butter melts, and serve 
very hot. 



204 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Stuffed Spanish Onion. — Parboil a Spanish 
onion ; then drop it into ice-water ; take out 
the centre and fill it with force-meat ; cover 
with a thin slice of sweet fat pork ; sprinkle 
with a teaspoonful of salt and the same of 
sugar ; add four tablespoonf uls of stock, cover 
closely, and cook over a good fire. When 
the onion is tender, take it up, remove the 
pork, strain and skim the gravy, pour it over, 
and serve. The best force-meat for the stuff- 
ing is made of cold chicken, a shred of boiled 
ham, a little chopped parsley, half a dozen 
mushrooms, all chopped well and mixed with 
a tablespoonf ul of butter and pepper and salt. 

Potatoes a la Provenqale. — Mash and pass 
through a Avire sieve two pounds of potatoes ; 
season with pepper and salt. Grate two 
ounces of Gruyere (Swiss) cheese, pound it 
with enough butter to make a paste, add a 
gill of milk and a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley ; put this in a saute pan, add the po- 
tato, mix all well, and stir until the mass is 
pale brown ; serve as a pyramid. 



VAEIOrS WAYS OF SERVING VEGETABLES. 205 

Milanese Potatoes. — Bake large potatoes 
till just tender ; cut off the tops, which keep. 
Scoop out the potatoes, but do not break the 
skin. Mash the inside with butter, pepper, 
salt, and grated Parmesan ; about a teaspoon- 
f ul of butter and cheese to each will be the 
right proportion. Beat the potato mixture 
with a fork for a minute to make it light, 
refill the skins, put on the covers, and heat 
them in the oven. 

Scalloj>ed Potatoes. — Mash two pounds of 
potatoes with milk, and pass through a sieve ; 
add three ounces of butter melted, two 
ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and a lit- 
tle pepper and salt. Fill shells Avith this mixt- 
ure, and brown them in the oven. Glaze 
them over with butter melted and grated 
Parmesan ; return one minute to the hottest 
part of the oven. Serve very hot. 

Tomato Jelly. — Two pounds of tomatoes, 
half a grain of red pepper, and two small 
shallots. Place them in a stewpan and 
boil till quite soft. Melt half an ounce of 



206 CHOICE COOKERY. 

gelatine in as little white stock as possible ; 
add this to the tomatoes, and strain ; if not 
perfectly clear, clarify with white of egg 
in the usual way. Mould, and serve with 
chopped aspic round it. A little grated 
Parmesan may be sometimes sprinkled over 
it for a change. 

Tomato Souffle. — Prepare some tomato 
pulp, taking care to boil it dovv^n if too liquid ; 
stir in the yolks of three eggs, then the whites 
well beaten ; salt to taste. Fill either a large 
souffle case or several small ones. Bake in a 
hot oven till it rises very high and is set in 
the centre ; serve instantly. 

Sj/inach Fritters. — Boil the spinach till it 
is quite tender; drain, press, and mince it 
fine; add half the quantity of grated stale 
bread, one grate of nutmeg, and a smcdl tea- 
spoonful of sugar; add a gill of cream and 
as many eggs as will make a batter, beat- 
ing the whites separately; pepper and salt 
to taste. Drop a little from a spoon into 
boiling lard ; if it separates, add a little 



TAKIOUS WAYS OF SERVING VEGETABLES. 207 

more crumb of bread ; when they rise to 
the surface of the fat they are done. Drain 
them, and serve very quickly, or they will 
faU. 



XXIII. 

JELLIES. 

In this country culinary skill seems to run 
to sweet rather than to savory cooking ; very 
few housekeepers but make excellent pre- 
serves and cakes, yet the list of sweet dishes 
manufactured at home is very limited; as 
soon as anything not in this category is re- 
quired the caterer is applied to, and he has 
his list of water-ices, cream -ices, and me- 
ringues, with very little variation ; some- 
times, indeed, a new name appears on the 
list, but it turns out to be some old friend 
with a new garnish, or put in a different 
mould and given an alluring name. There 
are many delicious sweet dishes not difficult 
to make when once the processes of making 
jelly and of freezing are understood (and very 
many who do not pretend to be good cooks 



JELLIES. 209 

are expert at these two things), and others 
which do not require even that abihty. To 
put a sweet dish on the table, however, in 
perfection, especially if it be an iced one, re- 
quires the utmost care and skill ; the slight- 
est carelessness in packing a frozen pudding, 
any delay between removing it from the ice 
and getting it on the dish, will destroy that 
dull, marble-like appearance it ought to wear 
when first it makes its entry, although it Avill 
gleam with melting sweetness long before it 
reaches the partakers. Happily there are 
many delightful sweets which are beautiful 
in appearance and less depending on atmos- 
phere than any of the family of ices. The 
simplest of these are fruit jellies. 

I spoke just now of the art of making jelly, 
and many readers may think in using such a 
term for so simple a thing I am exaggerating, 
and perhaps " art " is hardly the word, yet 
there is a daintiness and nicety in making 
jelly which almost deserves the term. 

However, before talking of how sweet dish- 

14: 



210 CHOICE COOKERY. 

es are to be made it is necessary to provide 
the means by which they are to be redeemed 
from the commonplace of mere richness and 
sweetness. The flavorings and liqueurs keep 
indefinitely if well corked. Orange-flower 
water, it is true, will lose strength, but when 
a bottle is first opened, if it is poured off into 
small vials, and each one corked and sealed,, 
it will keep its original strength. The fol- 
lowing list of articles kept in store will ena- 
ble a cook to give her cakes, creams, etc., 
just that " foreign " flavor that home prod- 
ucts so often lack : almonds, almond jDaste, 
candied cherries, candied angelica, candied 
orange, lemon, and citron jDeels, pistachio- 
nuts, orange-flower water, rose-water, pre- 
pared cochineal, maraschino, ratafia, lemons, 
extract of vanilla, and sherry. 

Several of these things are used principally 
for decoration ; for instance, the candied cher- 
ries and angelica and the pistachio-nuts. Con- 
sequently, unless the cherries and angelico 
are required for dessert (to which they are a 



JELLIES. 311 

ghowy and delicious addition), a quarter of a 
pound at a time is all that need be bought. 
Very likely in small cities or country places 
these latter articles may not be obtainable. 
But they are sold at the large city caterers', 
also at the stores which deal in French crys- 
tallized fruits — not French candy stores — and 
can always be sent by mail. 

The vanilla should be of the finest quality, 
and had better be bought by the ounce or 
half-pint from the druggist than from the 
grocer. There are good extracts put up, no 
doubt, but very many of them are largely 
made of tonka-bean, the flavor familiar in 
cheap ice-cream, in place of the more expen- 
sive vanilla. 

In the recipes that will be given the direc- 
tions will be as minute as possible ; but to 
prescribe the number of drops required to 
flavor a quart of cream would be utterly im- 
possible, the strength of the flavoring used 
differing so greatly, even in lemons. Some- 
times the juice of half a lemon will be right 



212 CHOICE COOKERY. 

for a certain thing, at another the juice of a 
quarter of one would be too much. This is 
where judgment must be exercised. If you 
have a very juicy lemon, although your rec- 
ipe says the juice of half, you will remember 
that the average lemon would not yield near- 
ly so much, and that the author had the av- 
erage lemon in mind. This applies to all fla- 
voring. Sometimes extract of bitter almond 
is so strong that even a drop would be too 
much to impart the faint almond flavor which 
alone is tolerable. In this case the thing to 
do for fear of spoiling the dish is to pour a 
half-dozen drops in a teaspoonful of water, 
and use from that, drop by drop, until the 
faint flavor desired is attained. In using 
any flavoring, great care must be taken not 
to put too much, as anything in the least 
over-flavored is offensive. 

Mould of Apple Jelly. — Peel and cut up a 
pound of fine-flavored apples (to weigh a 
pound after preparation) ; put them in a stew- 
pan with three ounces of granulated sugar, 



JELLIES. 213 

half a pint of water, and the juice and grated 
rind of a lemon. When cooked to a pulp, 
pass through a strainer, and stir in one ounce 
of gelatine that has been dissolved in a gill 
of water. Color half the apple with about 
half a teaspoonful of cochineal, and fill a 
border mould with alternate layers of the 
colored and uncolored apple. AYhen cold, 
turn out and serve with half a pint of cream 
whipped solid and piled in the centre. 

There is a great difference in the solidity 
of whipped cream. Sometimes it will be a 
mere froth that shows a disposition to lique- 
fy, and cannot be piled up. When this is 
the case there is always a great waste of 
cream, for at least half will have been left 
as a milky residue. The reason for this fail- 
ure of the cream to whip solid is generally 
because it is too fresh or too warm. 

If in proper condition, cream will whip as 
sohd as white of eggs, and leave not a tea- 
spoonful of liquid at the bottom of the bowl ; 
nor will there be the least danger of cream 



214 CHOICE COOKERY. 

SO whipped going back to liquid. It will be- 
come sour, but not change its form ; and it 
will take but a few minutes to beat. 

Cream intended for whipping should be 
twenty-four hours old in warm weather, and 
thirty-six in winter. It sliould also be thor- 
oughly chilled, and if the day is very warm 
it would be better to set the bowl containing 
it on ice while whipping it. Put in the whip, 
or egg-beater, and do not lift the froth off as 
it rises ; it is quite unnecessary if the vessel 
you use for the cream is large enough. As 
you see it begin to thicken, which Avill be 
after steady beating for five or six minutes, 
keep on just as you would for white of eggs. 
AYhen the beater is withdrawn you should 
be able to cut the cream or pile it any height. 
If by reason of excessive heat it is slow in 
reaching the proper consistency, leave the 
beater in the bowl, and set the whole on the 
ice until very cold again. 

The consistency of jelly should be only 
just stiff enough to keep form. It should 



JELLIES. 215 

shake and tremble while being served in- 
stead of remaining solid. It requires some 
little practice to make sure of this every time, 
although exact proportions be given. A ta- 
blespoonf ul difference in the pint or gill meas- 
ure would, where the gelatine is only just 
enough, cause the jelly to '^ squat" — not an 
elegant term, but one that represents the 
form of a too soft jelly. 

A very exact recipe for plain claret jelly, 
and which in proportions serves for an}^ other 
unless special mention is made of some vari- 
ation, is as follows : Three quarters of a pint 
of water, one pint of claret, a quarter of a 
pint of lemon juice (this makes one quart of 
liquid), the rind of one lemon, half an inch 
of cinnamon in the stick and two cloves, 
one tablespoonful of red currant jelly, two 
ounces of gelatine, the whites and shells of 
two eggs, a few drops of cochineal, and four 
ounces of sugar; put all in a stewpan, the 
gelatine having been softened in a little of 
the water ; whisk over the fire until the whole 



216 CHOICE COOKERY. 

boils ; then draw it off, let it stand for five 
to ten minutes ; strain through flannel or 
fine linen without pressures, add a few drops 
of cochineal to brighten the color, and mould 
for use. 

Use great care in selecting cinnamon, for 
very much that is sold is not the true spice, 
but a cheaper one (cassia) that resembles it. 
Cinnamon has a bright tan-color, . is rolled 
many times, and is not much thicker than 
paper when a. piece is unrolled. Cassia is 
thicker in the roll, a dull brown, and if a 
piece is broken is like a piece of wood. It 
is similar in flavor, but much coarser, and 
has little strength. 



xxiy. 

JELLIES. — Contimied. 

If it is kept in mind that two ounces of 
gelatine to the quart of hquid is the right 
proportion, and that if even a tablespoonful 
of flavoring, fruit juice, or what not, is add- 
ed, exactly the same quantity of other liquid 
must be^ omitted, there will not be much 
danger of formless jelly. Many forget this 
when not working from an exact recipe, and 
remembering only that a quart of cream or 
Avater or wine requires two ounces of gela- 
tine to set it, they do not deduct for the 
glass of wine or juice of lemon, etc., they 
may add for flavoring. Although wine jelly 
is rather a simple form of sweet, suggestive 
of innocent country teas, a very little more 
time than the average housekeeper bestows 
upon it will convert it into a very elegant 



218 CHOICE COOKERY. 

dish. Ill the season for fruits there is no 
more beautiful ornament for jelly than 
these, carefully gathered, with two or three 
leaves attached. 

Jelly with Fresh Fruits. — Select cherries of 
two or three colors if possible, in sprays of 
two or three, and on each a leaf or two ; 
wash them carefully by dipping them in and 
out of a bowl of water. Lay them between 
soft cloths to remove all moisture. Make a 
quart of punch jelly in the following way : 
Put together a pint of water, a quarter of a 
pint of the finest Santa Cruz or Jamaica rum, 
a quarter of a pint of sherry, a gill and a half 
of lemon juice, the rinds of two lemons, and 
the juice of one orange, or, if oranges are not 
to be obtained in cherry season, half a gill 
more of water, two ounces of gelatine, half 
an inch of cinnamon, the whites of two eggs 
well beaten and the shells crushed. Let this 
come to a boil over the fire, being well whisk- 
ed the while ; as soon as it boils draw it to a 
cool spot on the range, let it stand five min- 



JELLIES. 219 

utes, and strain through scalded flannel over 
a bowl ; let it drip, but do not use the least 
pressure. This jelly must be brilliantly clear. 
If there is any milky appearance it proves 
that the jelly did not really boil, and so the 
eggs had not completely coagulated ; in that 
event boil once more for an instant, and 
strain ao:ain throuo;h fresh flannel. Oil a 
mould that has no design of fruit or vege- 
table at the bottom, and set it in cracked ice ; 
pour in an inch or two of the jelly when 
nearly cold. Have the cherries ice cold, and 
arrange the sprays gracefully with due re- 
gard to color, remembering that the best ef- 
fect must be not upward towards you, but 
towards the bottom of the mould ; thus the 
underside of the leaves must be upward, etc. 
Do not put in more fruit than will display 
itself Avell. The bunches are to be isolated, 
not allowed to touch each other, and for this 
reason it may not be possible to lay more 
than one cluster at the bottom, if the mould 
is small there. In this case dispose a bunch 



220 CHOICE COOKERY. 

of black cherries and leaves gracefully in the 
centre, pour in more jelly, half an inch or so, 
then nearer the sides arrange lighter-colored 
cherries, two or three clusters, no more. The 
fruit is only intended as an ornament. A 
jelly that is quite as pretty may be made by 
using clusters of red and white, or red, white, 
and black currants. The red and white ones 
should have two or three young leaves at- 
tached, and each cluster be perfect ; no black- 
currant leaves must be used, as they have a 
strong flavor. 

Jelly with Candied Fruits. — Make a quart 
of maraschino jelly, w^hich is done by omit- 
ting the rum, lemon, and cinnamon from the 
last recipe, and using in place of rum a gill 
of maraschino, and water in ^Dlace of lemon 
juice. The jelly must be very pale. Choose 
the fruits of as bright colors as possible — 
small green oranges, red cherries, bright yel- 
low mirabelles, angelica perfectly green. Cut 
the oranges in half — two or three will suffice 
— leave mirabelles and cherries whole ; apri- 



JELLIES. 331 

cots cut in half-moons. The angehca, if cut 
across a quarter-inch thick, will form rings, but 
if something more ornamental is desired it 
can be split lengthwise, softened in hot water, 
wiped, then tied into small love-knots. Pour 
into a mould set in ice (the melon shape is 
excellent for these jellies) an inch of jelly, 
let it set ; then scatter in a few pieces of 
bright -colored fruit, always the best side 
downward ; pour in an inch more of jelly, 
and when set more fruit, keeping the bright- 
er pieces towards the side ; if you have knots 
of angelica, put them near the side. Always 
see that one layer of fruit and jelly is nearly 
set before adding more. 

Although fruits added to jellies in the way 
just described are chiefly for decorative ef- 
fect, they do add very greatly to the pleasure 
of eating them ; but jellied fruits, as distin- 
guished from, fruits in jelly ^ are a delicious 
mode of eating fruit, and where it is in 
abundance afford a pleasant variety. 

Jellied Raspberries. — Melt two ounces of 



222 CHOICE COOKERY. 

gelatine in a gill of water, squeeze half a 
pint of currant juice from fresh currants, and 
crush as many reel raspberries as will with 
the liquid fill a quart measure. It is almost 
impossible to give definite directions for 
sugar, as fruits differ so much. Stir in six 
ounces, then if not sweet enough add more ; 
mould the jelly, and serve with cream. 

This is also very nice put in a border 
mould, the centre filled with whipped cream. 

Roman Punch Jellies. — These require stiff 
paper cases of any of the Ornamental kinds 
used for ice-cream, but they must not flare. 
Make some maraschino or wine jelly. When 
it begins to set, pour the jelly into the cases, 
v/hich must be on ice, so that half the fluid 
jelly may set before it has time to soak the 
case. When quite set, very caref tiUy remove 
the centre, leaving a shell of jelly half an 
inch thick. The last thino^ before serving 
fill the centres with well-frozen Roman-punch 
ice. 

A, Macedoine of fruits, if well managed 



JELLIES. 223 

and a good assortment of fruits can be had, 
is a very ornamental way of serving fruit. 
A mould should have half an inch of mar- 
aschino, punch, Avine, or lemon jelly poured 
into it ; then some perfect strawberries, or, 
failing those, red cherries, as many as the 
jelly will hold together without crowding, 
no more ; then more jelly, and a layer of 
fruit of another kind (white, if possible), as 
pineapple cut into stars — a number of small 
stars can be stamped out of a few thin slices 
— more jelly, and a ring of dark fruit. Take 
care that all the finest fruits are used to 
form the outer rows. When the mould is 
almost full, with a layer or two of each kind 
of fruit, fill it up with jelly and set on ice. 

Creams are a favorite sweet in Europe, 
and eaten ice cold are delicious. Too often 
they are confounded here with blanc-mange, 
Avhich may mean anything from corn-starch 
and millv to gelatine and cream, but seldom 
is improved by the confectioner's art into a 
really handsome and dainty dish. 



224 ciioicK ('()()Ki-;kv, 

Ginger (Jradvi. — Make a custard of a ^ill 
of milk', ;in oiiihm; of powdered sii^Jir, an<l 
tli(! Ix^jiien yolks of llircc (-'<^'g.s. Sti?* in ji 
donl)l(! l)oil<'r iinl il diick'. L(*t it cook 'I'licn 
jidd K)\w, ^ill of tin; syruj) from w, \\\y of \)X{i- 
servud ^int^-er, ;iiid (nit iip two oiiii(;(^s of tlio 
^in^i^er; add three (|ii;irters of Jiii oniicc^ of 
gohitiru! iii(!lt(!d in ns liMk' wjtt(3r as j)ossil)l(^ 
TiMst of alk Jidd Imirji pint of crejiin whipped 
soii(k Mix ^'cn My a,nd till well hh'iKh'd; pour 
into a, moidd, juid set (Jii i('(!. 

N('((jK)l]l(rn. (Jreani. — Mnk'e :i eiisljir-d of 
h;dr ;i pint of Jiiilk, tli(! yolks of four* e^'^'s, 
and a tablespoonful and ;i, linlf of powdei'cid 
su^ar. Let it cool. (Jut up IIif'cm; ounccis of 
prciservcMl f^in^^T v(Ty snwill ; cook- it, in ;i, <^ill 
of <^'in^'ei' syruj) foi' three; minutes. L(;t it 
cool also. I)(H;or{ito th(; mould with on(; 
ouiKH) of dried cherries jind lejtves, etc., of 
jelly. Out tli(; eheiM-ies in li.'df, o||j(. them 
with ;i little melted jelly to the side? Jiud hot, 
tom of the mould; cut some; .i*'''.V iu thin 
slices, or melt it and let it run into thin 



JELLIES. 225 

sheets, wliicli allow to chill, and stamp from 
them leaves, or whatever sha])es you please. 
Glue these also to the side ol' (lie mould in 
the most effective way your taste can devise. 
Stir one ounce of gelatine melted in very lit- 
tle water, and half a pint of cream whij)ped 
solid, to the custard with which you have 
already mixed the ginger and syrup. Pour 
all into the decorated mould, put on ice, and 
when it is to bo turned out wrap a cloth 
dipped in hot water round the mould; give 
it a smart slap on both sides, and it will turn 
out without diliiculty. 
15 



XXY. 

COLD SWEETS.— CREAMS. 

Coffee Cream. — Make half a pint of cus- 
tard with two eggs and half a pint of milk ; 
dissolve an ounce of gelatine and three ounces 
of sugar in half a gill of strong coffee ; add 
the custard, and strain ; whip half a pint of 
cream quite firm; stir lightly into the cus- 
tard; when it is cool, pour into a mould, and 
set on ice. The excellence of this cream de- 
pends on the coffee, Avhich must be filtered, 
not boiled, freshly made, and very strong — 
three tablespoonfuls of coffee to the half- 
pint. 

Curagoa Cream. — Make a custard with the 
yolks of four eggs and half a pint of milk ; 
dissolve half an ounce of gelatine in as little 
liquid as possible ; mix it with two ounces of 
powdered sugar; add to the custard; then 



COLD SWEETS. CREAMS. 227 

stir in a generous glass of cura§oa, and let 
the mixture cool, after which, add half a pint 
of cream whipped solid. Stir very lightly 
together until well blended ; then mould and 
set on ice. 

Straioberry Cream. — Hull a pint of quite 
ripe strawberries ; put them on a fine sieve, 
and sprinkle an ounce of sugar over them ; 
put half an ounce of gelatine into a stewpan 
with two tablespoonfuls of cold water, two 
ounces and a half of powdered sugar, and the 
juice of a lemon, and let it dissolve by gentle 
heat. Pass the strawberries through the 
sieve ; strain the gelatine, etc., to the straw- 
berry juice, and put to get cold; then add 
half a pint of cream whipped solid. Stir 
very lightly to the strawberry juice, etc., 
when the latter is beginning to set. 

Yanilla Cream. — Make a custard with 
three volks and one white of eo:o\ and half a 
pint of milk and three ounces of sugar ; melt 
an ounce of gelatine in two tablespoonfuls 
of water, strain it to the custard, and mix 



228 CHOICE COOKERY. 

well; whip half a pint of cream to a stiff 
froth, and stir it gently to the custard and 
gelatine ; flavor with vanilla. After the va- 
nilla is added, make a couple of spoonfuls of 
the custard pink with cochineal or straw- 
berry juice ; let this cool in a thin sheet ; 
stamp from it small clover leaves or lozenges, 
not over an inch long and three quarters 
broad ; decorate the bottom of a mould with 
them^ using a little gelatine and water to 
fasten them ; set the mould in chopped ice, 
and about half-way up put four or B.ye of 
the pink pieces ; take great care there is no 
inequality as to height or distance (slovenly 
decoration is worse than none). When the 
lozenges are quite secure in their places, pour 
in the cream. It is needless to repeat this 
form of decoration of creams, they can be 
varied so infinitely by individual taste, but 
as a rule they should be decorated only with 
small forms cut out of bright-colored jelly, 
or of cream colored pink, orange, pistache 
green, or brown. Candied fruits are not ef- 



COLD SWEETS. CREAMS. 229 

fective, although sometimes used, unless the 
cream itself has fruit in it. 

Pistache Cream. — Half an ounce of gela- 
tine, two ounces of powdered sugar; melt 
the gelatine in a gill of w^ater, then add the 
sugar, a glass of sherry y and a glass of kirsch. 
Whip half a pint of thick cream solid, and 
w^hen the gelatine is cold and beginning to 
thicken stir the cream to it very lightly, and 
at the same time two ounces of pistachio- 
nuts, blanched and chopped fine, w^ith enough 
vegetable green coloring to make the cream 
a shade or two lighter in color than the nuts. 
This cream must be stirred lightly on ice af- 
ter the nuts are added, till thick enough for 
them not to sink. 

Almond Cream. — Half an ounce of gela- 
tine melted in a gill of water with two ounces 
of sugar and a glass of sherry; grate four 
ounces of almond paste into it, and stir in 
a double boiler or bowl set in boiling water 
until dissolved, or at least until there are no 
lumps. Let this get cool. Whip a pint and 



230 CHOICE COOKERY. 

a gill of cream solid, and stir to the mixture. 
Decorate a mould with any red jelly, pour the 
mixture in, and set on ice. In consequence 
of the variation in the strength of gelatine, 
in making any of these creams try a little on 
ice in a saucer before pouring into a mould, 
then add more cream or gelatine as required. 

Cold Puddings and Frozen Puddings. — 
Some of these " puddings " might just as ap- 
propriately be called creams ; however, fash- 
ion ordains that they shall be puddings. One 
of the newest is the 

J\d)ilee Pudding. — Make a pint of claret 
jelly; pour it into a small border mould; 
whip half a pint of cream in which is a quar- 
ter of an ounce of dissolved gelatine. When 
it is Avhipped solid, stir in one ounce of jDre- 
served or candied cherries, one ounce of can- 
died angelica, one ounce of preserved ginger, 
and one ounce of preserved apricot — the gin- 
ger and angelica cut small. Set on ice ; then 
turn out. Pile the whipped cream and fruit 
in the centre, and decorate according to fancy. 



COLD SWEETS. CKEAMS. 231 

Cold Souffle Pudding a la Princesse. — 
Melt half an ounce of gelatine in a gill of 
cream ; set in boiling water till dissolved ; 
beat the yolks of three eggs well, and add to 
the milk ; w^hen well mixed, put the custard 
into a double boiler till it thickens — it must 
not boil. Pour it into a bowl, and add a gill 
of apricot preserve, made into a puree by 
rubbing through a sieve with half a gill of 
orange juice, two ounces of sugar, a little 
lemon juice, and cochineal to color it a very 
delicate pink. Beat the whites of four eggs 
till they will not slip ; stir them in very light- 
ly with an upward motion of the spoon, the 
object being to keep the white of Qgg from 
falling, yet the whole must be thoroughly 
mixed. Stir till nearly cold before putting 
the souffle in a mould to set. 

Imperial Pice Puddmg.-^Tour a quarter 
of a pint of clear white jelly into a quart 
mould, turning the mould about so that the 
jelly covers every part ; this jelly serves to 
keep the ornaments in place. Cover the in- 



232 CHOICE COOKEEY. 

side of the mould Avitli an ounce of candied 
cherries split and half an ounce of angelica 
cut into tliin rings. Ste^^^ a quarter of a 
pound of rice in a pint of milk till tender ; 
when cool, add half a pint of whipped cream, 
a quarter of an ounce of gelatine melted in a 
little water, a quarter of a pound of powdered 
sugar, and a teaspoonf ul of vanilla. When it 
is all well mixed, turn the jDreparation into 
the mould, and set on ice. When firm, turn 
out of the mould, and serve with a puree of 
apricots. 

Di^lomatiG Pudding. — Make a quart of 
custard in the following way : Put the yolks~ 
of four eggs and the white of one into a bowl, 
and mix well with a wooden spoon ; stir in 
half a pint of milk, and strain all into a double 
boiler or a pitcher ; add two ounces of sugar, 
and stand the pitcher (unless you have the 
double boiler) in a saucepan of boiling water, 
and stir the custard over the fire until it thick- 
ens, but it must not boil ; remove from the 
fire ; stir in a tablespoonful of brandy and a 



COLD SWEETS. CREAMS. 333 

little vanilla. Line a plain mould with half 
a pint of wine jelly ; this is clone by pouring 
a Httle in at a time when it is half fluid, roll- 
ing the mould about on ice, and as soon a3 
one coat adheres, pour in more, until the 
mould is evenly coated ; decorate it with half 
an ounce of candied cherries and half an 
ounce of angelica — the cherries split and the 
angelica cut. Melt an ounce of gelatine and 
two ounces of sugar in a gill of water; stir 
it into the custard with a gill of thick cream ; 
stir tiU cool ; then add an ounce more cher- 
ries, half an ounce of angelica, and half an 
ounce of citron, all chopped small. Pour this 
gently into the mould you have decorated, 
set on ice, turn out and serve. 

Cold Cahinet Pudding. — Ornament the 
bottom of a pint mould with candied cherries 
and angelica ; split half a dozen lady-fingers ; 
line the sides of the mould very evenly with 
them, arranging them alternately back and 
front against the mould ; put in two ounces 
of ratafias (these are tiny macaroons about 



234 CHOICE COOKEET. 

the size of a five-cent piece, of high flavor, 
and to be obtained at the pastry-cooks' who 
make foreign specialties ; some grocers also 
import them) ; put four yolks of eggs into a 
bowl ; stir them ; then add half a pint of 
milk ; pour this custard into a double boiler, 
and stir until it thickens, taking care that it 
does not curdle. Melt half an ounce of gela- 
tine in a very little water; strain it to the 
custard. When the latter cools, add half a 
gill of thick, fresh cream, two ounces of sugar, 
and a teaspoonfal of vanilla; mix all well, 
and pour carefully into the mould without 
disturbing the lining of cake. Put the mould 
on ice, and, when set, turn out and serve. 



XXYI. 

CREAMS AND FROZEN PUDDINGS. 

Nut creams, with the exception of almond, 
are not very well known, but are so delicious 
that they ought to be. One reason perliaps 
is that it is not generally known that kernels 
of nuts, SQch as hazel-nuts, walnuts, hickory- 
nuts, etc., can be bought by the pound at 
confectioners' supply stores. This, of course, 
saves the tedious work of cracking and shell- 
ing. To use with creams or for frozen pud- 
dings the nuts must be pounded very well, 
with very little white of egg — just enough to 
moisten and render the process easy. 

Cocoannt Cream, — Grate a fresh, sweet 
cocoanut (having first peeled, Avashed, and 
wiped it dry) ; mix with it an ounce of 
sugar; melt in as little water as possible 
three quarters of an ounce of gelatine ; whip 



236 CHOICE COOKERY. 

the whites of three eggs, mix them with half 
a pint of milk, and stir over the fire until the 
custard thickens ; sweeten with four table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. Stir the gelatine and a 
full half -pint of grated cocoanut Avith the 
cocoanut milk into the custard. Whip half 
a pint of thick cream solid, and stir it very 
carefully into the custard ; when the latter 
is quite cold, but before it sets, flavor with a 
little vanilla or lemon extract. Mould and 
set on ice. 

Hazel-nut Cream. — Put a 23int of hazel-nut 
kernels into a cool oven until they are thor- 
oughly dry and rather hot (they must not 
become too hot, or they will change fla- 
vor) ; then rub them between two coarse 
cloths to get rid of as much as possible of the 
skin (it cannot be entirely removed) ; blow 
away the loose hulls, and pound the nuts to 
a paste Avith a little white of ^g^. Make a 
custard with the yolks of three eggs and half 
a pint of milk ; dissolve half an ounce of gel- 
atine in a gill of Avater, mix Avith six ounces 



CREAMS AND FKOZEN PUDDINGS. 237 

of powdered sugar, and add to the custard 
when nearly cool. Stir in the hazel-nut paste, 
taking care that it is well mixed with the cus- 
tard, and add a half-pint of cream whipped 
solid ; flavor with vanilla, or you may omit 
flavoring, the hazel-nut being sufficient for 
many people. Mould and set on ice. 

This cream and the two that follow are 
flecked with brown, for which reason it may 
be colored brown with caramel, although I pre- 
fer it uncolored, the specks being no more ob- 
jectionable than the vanilla seeds one rejoices 
to see in ice-cream. 

Walmct or Hickory-nut Cream. — Pound 
one pint of either of these nuts, after rub- 
bing them w^ell in a cloth, make the same 
custard as for hazel-nut cream, stir in the 
W' alnut or hickory-nut paste till smooth, add 
the w^hijDped cream, color a pale pink with 
cochineal, and flavor faintly w^th rum or 
vanilla. Mould, set on ice, and serve wath 
w^hipped cream flavored slightly with rum. 

Bohemian Jelly Creams. — These may be 



238 CHOICE COOKERY. 

made of any flavor, according to the jelly 
you use. It may be jelly of fruit or liqueur. 
If fresh fruit is used for jelly, the juice must 
be expressed, and well-sweetened gelatine 
added in the proportion of an ounce to tlie 
pint. If jam or marmalade is used, a pint 
of water is added and the same amount of 
gelatine, with the juice of half a lemon to the 
pint. Water, jam, and dissolved gelatine 
must be mixed quickly and passed through 
a sieve ; either must be stirred in a bowl set 
in ice till quite cold and beginning to thick- 
en; then stir in gently and quickly three- 
quarters of a pint of cream Avhipped solid ; 
pour the mixture into the mould, which must 
be set in ice. Cover well, and keep on ice 
till needed. 

Frangipanni Iced Pudding. — Grate six 
ounces of almond paste to crumbs ; then on 
a smaller grater grate four or six bitter al- 
monds blanched and dried ; pound a dozen 
candied orange -flower petals with three- 
quarters of a pound of powdered sugar ; put 



CREAMS AND FROZEN PUDDINGS. 239 

all into a stewpan with the yolks of eight 
eggs, and beat them very well together. In 
another stewpan have a pint and a half of 
boiling milk, which must be poured over the 
other ingredients by degrees, keeping them 
well stirred. Place it over the fire, stirring 
until it thickens and adheres to the back of 
the spoon; rub this all through a coarse 
sieve, add a glass of sherry, and when cold 
pour the mixture into the freezer ; wdien half 
frozen add a pint and a half of whipped 
cream, and when quite frozen fill a pudding 
mould, bury it in ice and salt, and serve as 
you would :N^esselrode pudding. 

Iced Cabinet Pudding.— Cw.t a stale sponge 
cake into shoes half an inch thick and rather 
smaller than the mould you intend to use for 
the pudding ; lay the shces of cake to soak 
in brandy flavored with noyau ; decorate the 
bottom and sides of the mould with candied 
fruits, split cherries, angelica rings, the same 
of green oranges, and little diamonds of gin- 
ger, with a few whole ratafias, dipping them 



240 CHOICE COOKERY. 

in jelly to make them adhere ; lay in one 
slice of cake, then cherries and ratafias, an- 
other slice of cake, and so on, until the mould 
is three parts full. Make a quart of custard 
with six yolks of eggs, three tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, and an ounce of gelatine ; when this 
is cold pour part into the mould, which must 
close hermetically; pack it in salt and ice 
for at least two hours; when you wish to 
turn it out, dip it a minute in lukewarm 
water. Keep the remaining custard on ice, 
flavor it with sherry or rum, beat it uj), 
pour it around the pudding, and strew it 
with chopped pistachio-nuts. 

Ice Pudding. — Make a custard with a pint 
and a half of milk, one whole ^gg and the 
yolks of four others, and a quarter of a pound 
of sugar ; Avhen cold, add half a glass of bran- 
dy, a glass of maraschino, an ounce of citron 
cut fine, a quarter of a pound of dried fruits, 
and an ounce of pistachio-nuts, the fruits cut 
up in small pieces, the pistachio-nuts blanched 
and split ; mix well ; and lastly add half a 



CEEA^IS AND FROZEN PUDDINGS. 241 

pint of whipped cream. When well frozen, 
pack into a pudding mould, and hiwy in ice 
and salt till wanted. 

Bombay Ice Pudding. — Line a plain mould 
with Roman-punch ice an inch thick, keeping 
it bedded nearly to the brim in ice and salt 
while you do it ; then fill tlie centre with the 
following mixture : a pint of cocoanut grated 
very fine, mixed with a pint of ice-cream; 
take great care that the cocoanut is ice-cold 
before you mix it in, or it will melt the ice- 
cream. When the mould is filled within an 
inch of the top, cover it with Roman punch, 
close the mould hermetically, and bury in 
ice. These puddings, where two kinds of 
ice are used, must only be attempted after 
one has learned to pack plain ice-cream with 
success. 

Iced Jelly Pudding. — Make a custard with 
a pint of boiling cream, three ounces of sugar, 
and the yolks of four eggs beaten ; pour the 
cream to the eggs very carefully, stirring it 
in by degrees. Have ready a quarter of an 
16 



242 CHOICE COOKERY. 

ounce of gelatine dissolved in very little milk, 
mix it in, and put the vessel containing the 
custard in a stewpan of boiling water, and 
stir till it just thickens ; then whisk it until 
nearly cold. Mask a quart mould with jelly 
an inch thick — any favorite red jelly, or a pale 
one tinted. Directions have already been 
given how the inside of a mould is to be 
coated with jell}^ There is an easier but 
extravagant way, namely, to fill the mould 
with jelly, then scoop out the centre neatly, 
leaving a shell of jelly an inch thick. The 
centre, of course, might be made hot and bot- 
tled for another occasion, or to make Bo- 
hemian cream jellies. AYhen the mould is 
masked, fill it with the custard, which must 
be half frozen ; then cover securely, and pack 
in ice and salt at least five hours before it is 
served. 



XXYIL 

ICED PUDDINGS. 

Filbert and Wine Iced Pudding. — To one 
pint of cream put four tablespoonf uls of sugar 
and two glasses of fine sherry. The cream 
must be perfectly sweet, but should be at 
least twenty-four hours old, and be ice cold. 
Whip this solid ; then freeze. Put a pint of 
filberts in a cool oven till the skins will near- 
ly all rub off ; put them between two coarse 
cloths, and rub as much as possible of the 
brown coating off them ; pound them to a 
paste w^ith a little thick cream, mix four 
ounces of sugar with the nuts, and then 
blend the whole w^ith enough thick custard 
to make a very thick batter; flavor with 
lemon or vanilla, or not, as you choose ; freeze. 
Line a plain mould with the frozen wine 
cream an inch thicli^^then fill in the centre 



244 CHOICE COOKERY. 

with the frozen filberts well pressed in ; cov- 
er tight, and pack in ice and salt for three 
hours, or until wanted. This pudding can 
be made of walnuts and port-wine cream. 

Iced Custard loith Fruit. — Flavor one pint 
of cream with any liqueur you prefer ; beat 
twelve eggs thoroughly; strain them; boil 
the cream with five ounces, of sugar, and 
when it is just off the boil pour it, little by 
little, to the eggs ; add a quarter of an ounce 
of gelatine that has been dissolved in very 
little water and strained to the custard ; 
whisk until cold; have ready a mould 
masked with candied fruits. To mask, set 
the mould in a pan of cracked ice, and dip 
each piece of fruit in strong melted jelly ; 
build up from the bottom of the mould hav- 
ing all the fraits, cut about the thickness of 
a split candied cherry and near the size, ar- 
ranged with a view to a good effect when 
the mould shall be turned out. Half freeze 
the custard, and pour it in the mould three 
inches high ; throw in some of the trimmings 



RICE A LA PRINCESSE. 345 

of candied fruit chopped fine. When set, 
add more custard, then more fruit, until the 
mould is full. Let it stand in ice at least 
five hours before it is wanted. 

Rice d la Princesse. — Let some rice swell 
in water until quite tender ; proportion, one 
cup of rice to two (scant) of water ; then but- 
ter a saucepan ; put the rice into it, with half 
a pint of milk ; let it stew gently till it will 
mash ; the milk must have all been absorbed ; 
sweeten with three tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Mix with this a gill of apricot jam, a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla, and half a pint of whipped 
cream ; freeze ; when well frozen, pack in a 
mould and bury in ice and salt. Pound a 
dozen macaroons ; stir them into a pint of 
whipped cream; let the mixture be put on 
ice. When the pudding is turned out of the 
mould, cover with the macaroon cream, and 
decorate the dish with cubes of peach or 
apricot jelly. 

Chocolate Cream Pudding. — Boil a quarter 
of a pound of the finest vanilla chocolate in 



246 CHOICE COOKERY. 

half a pint of milk, whisking it well till it 
boils ; dissolve in it two tablespoonf uls of 
powdered sugar. Beat three half -pints of 
cream and three tablespoonf uls of sugar solid 
while the chocolate cools ; when it is ice cold 
mix in one haK the beaten cream, and freeze. 
Line a plain mould with the frozen chocolate 
(the remainder of the whipped cream should 
have been kept in cracked ice and salt, so as 
to be ice cold) ; fill up the centre of the mould 
with the cream, cover tight, and bury in salt 
and ice. 

Ice-Cr earns and Ices. — There are so many 
ways of making ice-cream that all one can 
do is to indicate the one or two best, and cer- 
tainly the very best is the simplest, and there 
is no dessert so easy to prepare in hot weath- 
er as this, since there is no work over the fire. 
The only trouble is breaking the ice and turn- 
ing the machine for some twenty minutes, 
which can be done by a child. 

Simplest Fritit Ice -Cream. — Mash two 
pounds of strawberries or raspberries, put 



FRUIT ICE-CEEAM. 247 

to them half a pound of powdered sugar, and 
let them remain in a cold place two or three 
hours, so that the juice may run ; then strain 
the juice to a quart of thick sweet cream and 
another half pound of sugar, with the juice 
of half a lemon ; stir, and pour cream and 
fruit juice into the freezer, which must be 
packed with ice and rock-salt in about equal 
quantities, the ice being broken quite small. 
Let the cream remain standing in the freezer 
a few minutes before you begin to turn ; then 
freeze, letting off the Avater, and filling anew 
w^ith ice and salt if necessary. Stir the cream 
down as it forms, and keep on turning B.Ye or 
ten minutes after it is actually necessary. 
This extra working insures that extreme 
smoothness characteristic of Italian and 
French ice-cream. If you are not expert in 
freezing, be satisfied not to pack your cream 
in a mould for the first few times. Take out 
the paddle of the freezer, press the ice com- 
pactly down in the freezer, cover, and see 
that the ice and salt are sufficient and free 



248 CHOICE COOKERY. 

from water. In two hours you can turn the 
ice out of the freezer in a round column or 
loaf that will be quite as sightly as the ob- 
long square one frequently gets from the ca- 
terer. Many people think that simply freez- 
ing the pure cream produces the loose, frothy 
cream found at inferior confectioners', but 
this is not the case; pure cream frozen re- 
sults in a firm smooth mass which cuts like 
butter. 

I have given the formula for raspberr}^ 
and strawberry cream only, but any fruit 
juice may be substituted, varying the quan- 
tity of sugar as required. 

When it is desirable to freeze the fruit in 
the cream instead of the juice, it must not be 
added until the cream is frozen. Stir in rasp- 
berries, strawberries, chopped pineapple, ba- 
nana, or peaches just before the ice is ready 
to pack down ; otherwise the fruit, being full 
of water, will freeze into hard knots. 

TuUi-fruUi Ice- Cream being made from 
chopped candied fruit, this precaution is not 



CUSTARD FOR ICE-CREAM. 249 

necessary ; the fruit may be added at any 
time during the freezing, or stirred in last, as 
you please. 

I have given the simplest and best method 
of making ice-cream, yet the way most in use 
is to add custard ; and French cooks always 
use "meringue paste," claiming that it in- 
sures a smoothness and lightness nothing else 
can give. 

Custard for Ice- Cream. — This is made as 
any otlier custard, except that double the 
amount of sugar is allowed for everything 
that is to be frozen. It may be made of 
from three to six eggs to a pint of milk, as 
you prefer. This must be ice cold before 
you put it in the freezer. 

Ice- Cream with Eggs. — One pint of milk, 
three eggs, leaving out one white, half a 
pound of sugar (if acid fruit is to be added, 
it may require more for some tastes). Make 
a custard of these materials, and half freeze 
it ; then add a pint of cream whipped solid. 
Stir in well and finish freezing, turning the 



250 CHOICE COOKERY. 

handle some few minutes after it gets pretty 
stiff, if there is a strong enough hand near 
to do it. 

In making varieties of ice-cream you have 
only to consider the fitness of the articles 
you use ; for instance, any sort of fruit may 
be added, with the exception of lemons. 
Fleshy fruits, such as pineapple, peaches, 
pears, etc., are usually mixed with the cream 
uncooked in this country ; abroad this is only 
done with soft fruits, such as raspberries, 
blackberries, oranges, and such as will mash 
through a colander. Others are very slight- 
ly stewed in rich syrup (as nearly their 
own juice as possible), then pulped and 
mixed through when the cream is nearly 
frozen. 

In winter, fruit jams, and especially jellies, 
are very pleasant in ice-cream ; they always 
require a little lemon juice to restore some of 
the natural sharpness of fresh fruit. A tum- 
bler of red currant jelly turned into a pint of 
ice-cream is delicious, and gives a pretty, faint 



GRILLED ALMOND CREAM. 351 

pink tint. The method is just the same wheth- 
er for custard and cream or cream alone. 

The meringue paste alluded to as used by 
foreign confectioners is made by beating the 
white of an egg with a tablespoonful of pow- 
dered suo^ar until stiff. 

Grilled Almond Ice-Cream. — Make a quart 
of ice-cream ; grill some almonds in the fol- 
lowing way : Blanch four ounces of almonds, 
dry them in a hot spot till they are brittle ; 
then put in a thick saucepan or saute pan 
four ounces of sugar and a gill of water ; let 
them boil five minutes ; throw in the al- 
monds ; stir them till part of the sugar ad- 
heres and they begin to turn yellow. Take 
them up, chop them, and when quite cold stir 
them into the ice-cream, which should be 
flavored with vanilla. 



XXYIII. 

ICE-CREAMS AND WATER-ICES. 

To those verv fond of tea, ice-cream made 
with it is very acceptable, and is very much 
used at English garden parties. 

Tea Ice-Cream. — To one pound of granu- 
lated sugar put a pint of strong green tea, a 
pint and a half of cream, and two quarts of 
rich milk, and a very little cinnamon water. 
Let the whole simmer one minute, not stir- 
ring, but keeping the mixture in motion by 
gently swinging the saucepan. Freeze as 
usual. This recipe may be used for coffee 
and chocolate ; it will make a large quantity, 
and for a medium-sized family one quarter 
will suffice. 

Chinese Ice. — Beat the yolks of fifteen eggs 
with three quarters of a pound of powdered 
sugar; pound four ounces of pistachio-nuts 



WATER-ICES. 253 

(blanched) with the white of an egg ; put to 
it three gills of water ; stir it over the fire in 
a double boiler till it is as thick as cream ; 
take great care that it does not boil. Color 
it green, or part green and part yellow ; fla- 
vor as you please ; cut up a couple of candied 
Chinese oranges small and a little preserved 
ginger, and freeze. 

Water-ices. — These are exceedingly sim- 
ple, and no more elegant form of refreshment 
can be offered than a plate of well-frozen or 
a tumbler of half-frozen water-ice. It is ac- 
ceptable when ice-cream would be too heavy, 
and can be offered at the simplest country 
afternoon tea, or during a call, without the 
seeming ostentation of ice-cream. 

Ginger Water-ice (to serve as a beverage 
if preferred). — Take six ounces of preserved 
ginger, free from fibre ; pound it ; make two 
quarts of lemonade by paring eight or ten 
lemons so thinly that the knife-blade shows 
through the yellow; put the peel of three 
in a pitcher with a pound and a quarter of 



354 CHOICE COOKERY. 

sugar ; pour two quarts of boiling water on 
them, and cover ; squeeze and strain the juice 
from the lemons, add to the water, and when 
cold stir in the pounded ginger, wath the 
meringue paste made with the whites of four 
eggs. Freeze it. If for drinking, only half 
freeze, Avork only enough to make it like 
half -melting snow, and use only sugar enough 
to make a refreshinof drink. Italians call 
this granito, and it is a form of ice not often 
met with in this country. 

Pineajople Water-ice. — This can be readily 
made of canned pineapple when the fresh 
fruit is out of season. Peel a pineapple; 
grate it into a mortar; then pound it well 
with six ounces of sugar ; let it stand covered 
for an hour; add the juice of fixQ oranges, 
and a pint and a half of syrup boiled to the 
little thread, or a lisse. (This syrup is much 
used in making water-ices, punches, etc. It 
is sugar and water boiled till it forms a little 
thread between thumb and finger.) Mix 
Avell and freeze. If canned fruit is used, you 



WATER-ICES. 255 

need less sugar, and substitute lemon for half 
the orange juice. 

Ahnoncl Water-ice. — Take one pound of 
almond paste, a pint and a half of water, and 
three quarters of a pound of sugar ; grate the 
paste ; then stir till quite dissolved. Flavor 
with vanilla or raspberry ; stir in the whites 
of two eggs and some candied fruits cut up 
small. Freeze as usual. 

Cinnamon Water-ice. — This is a German 
ice, and very much liked by those who are 
fond of the flavor. Pound an ounce of the 
finest quality of cinnamon in the stick, put 
it into a pint and a half of boiling water, 
and cover it well ; Avhen it is cold add a 
quart of syrup (the little thread) and the 
well-beaten whites of two eggs, and freeze it. 

Pistachio Water-ice. — Blanch and pound a 
pound of pistachio-nuts, using the white of 
an egg to moisten ; mix with a quart of syrup 
a lisse. Heighten the color, if too pale, with 
spinach coloring, and flavor to taste. (Pista- 
chio-nuts have no flavor of their own, aston- 



256 CHOICE COOKERY. 

ishing as the fact may seem to those who 
have heard frequently of pistachio flavor.) 
Freeze as usuaL 

Apricot Water-ice. — There is no more deli- 
cious water-ice than this if fine-flavored apri- 
cots are used. The canned ones are excellent 
for the purpose. Pulp two pounds of apri- 
cots through a sieve or jelly press ; grate or 
pound very fine five or six bitter almonds ; 
mix with the pulp the juice of the apricots 
(from the can), and a pint and a half of syrup, 
and the beaten whites of three eo^trs made 
into a paste with three tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar; stir all well, and freeze. This 
ice ought to be the color of apricots ; if too 
pale, add a very little saffron coloring. 

Currant Water-ice. — A pint of currant 
juice, a pint of syrup, and the whites of three 
eggs made into meringue paste. Freeze as 
usual. Any of these water-ices can be half 
frozen as graniti, and served in glasses as 
granito^ the only exceptions being the almond 
and pistachio water-ices. 



GKANITI. 257 

Granitl are also made of various kinds 
of light punches by adding to a quart of the 
usual punch recipe a quart of sweetened 
^yater. Any summer beverage made from 
fruit juice can be turned into a granito, 
by half freezing, in either of the following 
ways : 

To. Freeze GranitL — Mix the beverage you 
intend to freeze, for instance, we will say, a 
pint of very strong, clear, bright coffee and 
half a pint of syrup a llssS. Put them into 
the freezer and turn; as it becomes frozen 
up the sides, scrape it down with a spoon, 
and remember, as soon as it resembles snowy 
water (not white, of course) it is frozen 
enough. It must be just liquid enough to 
pour out. 

There is a second way of freezing graniti 
by which they can be put on the table in the 
vessel in which they Avere frozen. Place the 
mixture in wide-mouthed water-bottles, twirl 
them round in ice and salt, and, as the con- 
tents become frozen on the inside of the bot- 
17 



258 CHOICE COOKEKY. 

tie, scrape down with a narrow wooden stick 
or spatula. When frozen in perfection the 
bottle should seem half filled with tiny 
crystals. 

Claret Granito. — To one pint of orangeade 
add a bottle of claret. Half freeze. 

Sherry Granito. — To one quart of lemon- 
ade add a bottle of sherry, and freeze. 

The housekeeper who lives far from a large 
city will need materials for many of the reci- 
pes given in these papers and others which 
she will meet with in books on high-class 
cooking. Many of these can be sent for by 
mail, and all, of course, by express ; but it 
will often not seem worth while to send per- 
haps for one small bottle that w^e may lack. 
For this reason I give a few directions for 
preparing very tolerable imitations of liq- 
ueurs, which, however, unless it Avere a ques- 
tion of economy, it might not be worth wiiile 
doing if within reach of stores. 

Curaqoa. — Pare a dozen and a half of dead- 
ripe oranges so thin that you can see the 



LIQUEURS. 259 

knife pass under the rind ; pound one dram 
of finest cinnamon and half a dram of mace ; 
put them to steep for fifteen days in a gallon 
of pure alcohol, shaking it every day. Make 
a clarified syrup of four pounds of sugar and 
one quart of water well boiled and skimmed ; 
add this to the curagoa. Rub up in a mortar 
one dram of potash with a teaspoonful of 
the liqueur; when well mixed add it, and 
then do the same with a dram of alum. Shake 
well, and in an hour or two filter throug^h 
thin muslin. It will be ready for use in a 
a week. 

MarascJdno. — Bruise two ounces of cherry 
kernels and one of bitter almonds ; put them 
in a deep jar with the thin outer rind of 
twelve oranges and five lemons. Steep in 
one gallon of English gin or alcohol. Let 
the whole stand a fortnight, then filter and 
bottle. 

Ratafia. — Blanch the kernels of uncooked 
peaches or apricots, and when you have two 
ounces pound them, and pour to them a quart 



260 CHOICE COOKERY. 

of gin or alcohol and the thin yellow rind of 
two lemons. Sweeten with a pound of white 
sugar-candy, and leave the whole for two 
months ; then filter and bottle for use. 

Candied Orange and Lemon Peels. — These 
are invaluable both as decoration for certain 
desserts and for culinary purposes, and as 
they are not always to be found except in 
the larger cities, the method of preparing 
them is here given : Throw the peels into 
salt and Avater, all pulp being removed, but 
the white part must be left untouched ; in 
fact, the thicker the peel the better for the 
purpose, thin-skinned oranges being of no use 
for candying. Let them remain in the salt 
and water from nine days to three weeks; 
then wash them, put them on the fire in cold 
water, and let them boil till perfectly tender, 
yet they must not be mushy. During the 
time they are boiling change the Avater until 
it no longer tastes salt. Lemon-peels may 
take from three to four hours' boiling, orange- 
peels less ; but remember, should the lemon- 



CANDIED ORANGE AND LEMON PEELS. 261 

peel not be quite tender, it will harden when 
it goes into syrup, and instead of a rich 
sweetmeat there will be onh^ wood}^ chips. 
Drain the peels, and make a thin syrup of a 
pint of water to each pound of sugar. Let 
it boil five minutes ; then throw in the peels ; 
they must boil gently in this until they are 
clear and the syrup has become thick — 
almost boiled away, in fact. Xow make 
another syrup, half a pint of wg^ter to two 
pounds of sugar; let it boil till clear and till 
there is a short hair from the fork. Now 
put in the peels (which must have been 
drained from the other syrup) ; remove from 
the fire ; stir them round till the syrup looks 
whitish ; then lift each piece out and lay it 
on a dish on which granulated sugar has 
been freely sprinkled. 

Both orange and lemon peels are candied 
by the same process, but they must never be 
put in the same vessel of salt and water, nor 
must they be candied together, or the dis- 
tinctive flavors would be lost. 



XXIX. 

MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 

Under this head I intend to give a few 
sweets that seem to me unusually good, al- 
though they may not always be novel, ex- 
cept in manner of serving. A compote of 
fruit has nothing new about it, yet by the 
way in which it is served it may simply be 
" stewed fruit," or it may be a dish fit to 
find a place even in choice cookery. 

In making compotes great care must be 
taken to preserve the shape and color of the 
fruits. In order to do this they must be 
quickly peeled and dipped into strong lemon 
juice and water, and dropped into syrup in 
which also a little lemon juice has been 
squeezed. Pass the blade of the knife over 
its own marks to obliterate the appearance 
of peeling. Peaches and apricots may be 



MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 265 

enough to remain liquid. By this means 
the rich coating will remain over the apples, 
while if both were warm it would run off. 

Compote of Apples or Pears Grille. — If you 
have any apples or pears left from a compote 
(or you may, of course, prepare them especial- 
ly), put them into a frying or saute pan over 
a brisk fire ; put with them any syrup there 
may be and a cup of sugar just dissolved in 
water; boil rapidly down to a pale caramel, 
rolling the apples Avith a fork so that they 
become covered with the caramel. Take 
great care tjiat the syrup does not burn; re- 
move it from the fire the moment it begins 
to change color. The apples should now have 
an even glossy surface ; as each is finished 
put it at once into the compotier. Pour a lit- 
tle cura^oa syrup round just before sending 
to table. 

Compote of Apple Marmalade. — This is 
not so troublesome to make as it sounds, es- 
pecially to any one who has made glace nuts 
— a very general accomplishment nowadays. 



266 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Keduce some apple marmalade by leaving it 
for an hour or two in a double boiler; the 
water boiling round it will evaporate moist- 
ure without danger of burning. Stir occa- 
sionally, and when the marmalade is so re- 
duced that it Avill make a firm paste when 
cold (try a little in a saucer on ice), color one 
half pink with cochineal. Spread half an inch 
thick on plates slightly oiled ; when stiff and 
cold, cut out the marmalade into squares, 
ovals, diamonds, leaves, etc., with tin cutters. 
Boil a pound of sugar with a gill of Avater to 
the crack — that is, until a teaspoonf ul dropped 
in ice-water will crack between the teeth. 
Oil a fork and a large dish, and use the fork 
to drop the pieces of marmalade into the 
candy ; lift them out quickly, and lay them 
on the dish, Avhich Avill be better if it is set 
on ice. When they are cold, dish them in a 
pyramid, the pink to contrast Avith the Avhite 
effectively. Pour a little liqueur-flavored 
syrup i^ound the base of the fruit. 

Compote of Pears (white). — Use any fine- 



MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 267 

flavored dessert pears. Cut them in halves, 
core, pare, and trim neatly, and simmer them 
in syrup (a pound of sugar and juice of half 
a lemon to a pint of water) till they are ten- 
der, yet firm to the touch. Dish the pieces, 
keeping them close to each other. Lay a 
thin sheet of apple jelly over them, and the 
syrup, boiled down till rich and thick, round 
them. 

A Pink Comrpote is prepared in the same 
Avay, the only difference being that a very 
few drops of cochineal are added to the 
syrup before the pears go in. Decorate with 
angelica. 

Pears a la Princesse. Select seven pears 
of the best quality, without blemish, and of 
equal size ; pare them with great care ; stand 
them close together in a saucepan, with weak 
acidulated syrup to cover them ; simmer 
slowly till quite tender, but yet firm to the 
touch ; take them up, leaving the syrup to 
boil down. When cold, cut the stalk end 
off each pear about an inch deep, or so as 



268 CHOICE COOKERY. 

to leave about an inch of surface, on which 
place a ring of angelica (simply cut angelica 
crosswise and it forms rings, being tubular) ; 
if the rings are flattened, lay them in syrup ; 
when softened bend them round and lay one 
on each pear ; then, if in season, dip a fine 
strawberry or stoned red cherry in the hot 
syrup and lay it on the ring of angelica. Cut 
strips of angelica and run them through the 
strawberry down to the pear, both to hold 
the decoration in place and to represent the 
stalk ; dish them standing ; when dished up, 
pour some syrup, boiled till thick and rich, 
over the seven pears. When fresh fruit is not 
in season for decoration, use candied cherries. 
Yariegated Compote of Pears. — This is a 
pretty dish. Prepare some pears as in the 
last recipe, except that the tops are not to be 
cut off ; color half the number a pale pink by 
adding a few drops of cochineal to the syrup 
in which they are simmered ; dress them al- 
ternately, a pink pear and a white one, in 
the compotier ; pour over each the pink and 



MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 269 

white syrup in which they were cooked, and 
pour syrup flavored with vanilla round them. 

Com^jote of Oranges. — Divide six oranges 
in halves ; first cut out the centre string of 
pith, pick all pips out carefully, and with a 
very sharp knife pare off the peel of the 
orange down to the naked transparent pulp ; 
in this way you get rid of the whole of the 
white outside skin. Place the halves as vou 
do them in a bowl ; pour over them some 
hot syrup boiled a lisse, flavored with orange 
peel, rubbed with lump sugar, and previously 
dissolved in the syrup ; a very little lemon 
Juice should be added if the oranges are very 
sweet. Let them steep a few minutes ; then 
remove them ; then build the oranges into a 
pyramid on the compotier, and the last thing 
before going to table pour the syrup, well 
boiled and cold, over them. 

Chestnut Compote. — Take the largest 
French or Spanish chestnuts, make slits in 
the peel, and boil till tender ; take off the 
shell, and press them flat without breaking ; 



270 CHOICE COOKERY. 

lay them in a saucepan ; j)our over them 
thick syrup; put them in the oven, but do 
not let them boil ; when they look quite 
clear take them up, put them into the com- 
potier, boil the syrup to candy height, squeeze 
into the compotier the juice of an orange, 
and pour the candy over the chestnuts. 

Chestnut Comj^ote IS^o. 2. — Prepare the nuts 
as in last recipe ; put the yolks of three eggs 
in a saucepan ; stir gradually to them a pint 
of cream ; cook a quarter of a pound of sugar 
to the crack, with a few dried orange flowers ; 
the minute the candy begins to get yellowish 
pour it into the cream, stirring constantly, 
and let it come to boiling-^Doint ; then strain 
the cream over the chestnuts. 



XXX. 

MISCELLANEOUS ^\YEET^.—Co7itimied. 

Steawbekries, raspberries, currants, etc., 
need very little cooking, and that little in 
high candy. If it is understood that strong 
syrup tends to make fruit firm, and weak 
syrup to make it tender, it will be seen why 
all soft fruit, in order to keep its shape, 
should be dropped into candy boiled till brit- 
tle, and why apples and other hard fruits 
should be first stewed in weak syrup until 
soft ; yet there are degrees ; for instance, 
hard peaches require thin syrup, and very 
luscious ones must be put into syrup that is 
very near candy. This is also the case with 
pears. Be guided as to the strength of the 
syrup by the kind of fruit. Avoid fruit that 
is very ripe, because the syrup from it will 
not jelly readily. 



272 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Compote of Strawberries. — Select a quart 
of fine large berries, rather under than over 
ripe ; boil three quarters of a pound of sugar 
to the crack ; drop the straAvberries into the 
syrup after it is removed from the fire ; re- 
turn them to the range ; let tliem boil gen- 
tly once ; take out the berries most carefully 
with the skimmer ; lay them on the compo- 
tier ; boil the syrup fast, skimming it care- 
fully ; then pour it over the fruit. 

Compote of Cherries is made in the same 
way, with the finest red cherries, only they 
require to boil up several times. When 
clear, drain them with the skimmer; lay 
them in the compote dishes ; add a gill of 
red currant juice to the syrup; boil it till 
it is a weak jelly; then throw it over the 
cherries when nearly cold. 

Orange Baskets Filled loitli Fruits. — Select 
seven oranges, not too large, but all the same 
size. With a very sharp knife pare the fruit 
as thin as possible — so thin that it still re- 
mains yellow, and only the shining outer 



miscellanp:ous sweets. 273 

surface is removed (in fact, it may be lightly 
grated off, but that is more trouble), to ren- 
der them transparent ; cut two quarters out 
of the upper part of the orange, so as to 
leave a narrow band half an inch wide, w^hich 
w^ill form the handle ; pass the knife care- 
fully round inside the band, so as to remove 
the strip of palp. With the bowl of a tea- 
spoon detach the remaining pulp from the 
inside without in any way damaging the 
shape of the basket. As you prepare them, 
drop them in a saucepan of cold water, and 
then put them into boiling water, and sim- 
mer three minutes gently. This is only to 
soften the peel and enable you to stamp out 
the edges with a perforating cutter, if you 
have one, which will give them an open- 
work effect ; if not, just scallop them with 
scissors, and snip out a sort of trellis-work to 
increase the basket effect. Put them into a 
preserving- kettle with w^eak syrup d lisse, 
boil them gently till they look clear, then 
put them aside in the syrup till next day ; 
18 



274 CHOICE COOKERY. 

boil the syrup twice alone at intervals of 
several hours, and throw it over the baskets. 
These baskets may be kept ready prepared 
for months by putting them in wide jars 
and covering them with syrup. When re- 
quired for use, they must be taken out, 
drained thoroughly, and then filled with a 
variety of small fruits, such as cherries, straw- 
berries, currants, etc., which have been mixed 
with a little apple or orange jelly. In Avin- 
ter, ambrosia — a mixture of cut-up banana, 
grated cocoa-nut, orange quarters, etc. — may 
be served in them, or a mixture of 2)reserved 
fruits that are firm, such as Chinese oranges, 
limes, ginger, etc. In all cases serve them 
on a compote dish, and throw over them 
syrup flavored with maraschino. 

Lemon Baskets are prepared precisely as 
the orange baskets, but they require longer 
boiling, and the syrup they are served with 
should be flavored with citronelle or the 
rasped peel of green limes. 

Orange Baskets Glace. — These are not 



MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 375 

much more trouble than the baskets simply 
preserved, but if successfully done they can 
be very effectively filled with candies or ice- 
cream. Prepare the baskets as in last recipe, 
drain them on a napkin, very carefully re- 
move all moisture from the inside, and set 
them over a register, or in an oven with the 
door open, to dry. Boil two pounds of sugar 
with a pint of water and two tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar till it begins to change color (this 
is some little time after the brittle stage is 
reached, and is called caramel) ; lightly oil 
the skimmer, and drop a basket in the candy ; 
remove as quickly as possible, but see that 
the whole is well coated, yet has as little 
superfluous candy as possible, for w^hich rea- 
son the baskets must be warm w^hen they 
are dipped, also the skimmer. You must 
not leave the candy on the fire after it hegins 
to change color, but the work of coating the 
baskets had better be done quite near the 
fire, with the pot containing the candy on 
some part of it where it will be kept hot, 



276 CHOICE COOKERY. 

but not cook. They must be slipped on to 
an oiled dish, and, needless to say, most care- 
fully handled. 

Other baskets are made with nougat, oth- 
ei^s with 23astry, and the Swiss make what 
they call Yacherin with almond paste, and 
serve whipped cream in them ; but the idea 
may be extended and improved upon by 
serving dried fruits or candies, or ice-cream 
in them, and they are a decided improve- 
ment on the paper baskets so often used for 
the last purpose, being eatable. 

Swiss Vacherin. — Take half a pound of 
almond paste, three quarters of a pound of 
confectioners' sugar, and the white of one 
egg. Shave the almond paste, stir the egg 
and sugar together, and flavor with a little 
orange-flower water or wine ; work all to- 
gether Avith the hand into a smooth, stiff 
paste that will roll out ; if there is a disposi- 
tion to crack or crumble, use more white of 
egg and almond paste. Eoll it just as you 
would pie crust on the pastry board, using 



MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 277 

confectioners' sugar in place of flour. Line 
small cups or tartlet moulds, or anything 
that will make a good form for baskets, 
which have been very slightly oiled. Put 
them aside to harden and dry. Chop a 
tablespoonful of blanched pistachio-nuts till 
they are as fine as corn-meal, mix with an 
equal quantity of granulated sugar. Trim 
the edges of the cups or baskets Avith scis- 
sors, turn thorn out of the moulds, very care- 
fully dip the edges in a saucer containing 
white of egg beaten to liquid — the edges 
only need to be just wet. Have the chopped 
pistachio-nuts and sugar also in a saucer, dip 
the wet edge of the cup lightly into it, and 
shake gently. If properly done, the cups 
will now have a pretty green border. When 
these are filled with whipped cream, sweet- 
ened, flavored, and colored, they are called 
Swiss Yacherin. Filled wdth plain w^hipped 
cream, and the top covered w4th strawber- 
ries, they are called " Chantilly cups," but 
they may be used in many decorative ways. 



278 CHOICE COOKEEY. 

to hold preserves or candied fruits, etc., 
etc. 

Little China Dishes. — This quaint recijDC 
is from the immortal Mrs. Glasse, and on 
trial was found so unique and agreeable a 
variety to our modern fancies that with some 
little changes to suit our present ideas I give 
the last -century dainty. If you have any 
pretty-shaped little tin dishes, without flut- 
ing, to mould and bake them in, they are 
very little trouble to make. Take the yolks 
of two eggs, two small tablespoonfuls of 
sherry, and one of rose-water, beat together 
only enough to mix, then use as much fine 
flour as will make a firm paste that can be 
rolled out exceedingly thin. Cover some 
nicely shaped little tins slightly buttered, 
press to the form, be careful the paste fits 
without creases, and bake in a cool oven. 
When the j^aste is crisp, with very little 
change of color, they are done. Do not 
touch them till they are cold, as they may 
be brittle. Stir the white of an ^^g with a 



MISCELLANEO[JS SWEETS. 279 

tablespoonful of rose-water and confection- 
ers' sugar enough to make a smooth icing ; 
squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and 
when the little dishes are cold, ice the under 
side only just thick enough to mask the 
pastry ; Avhen they are dry and hard, turn 
them over and ice the inside ; do this with 
great smoothness, to look as much like jDor- 
celain as possible. If you choose, when the 
icing is quite hard, 3'ou can wet the edge of 
the dish6s with white of egg and dip them 
in chopped pistachio-nuts and sugar, like the 
Chantilly baskets, or in nonpareils (the small- 
est size). They may be used to serve any- 
thing sweet, from jelly to candies. 

Almond Trifles. — "With the almond paste 
used for Chantilly cups many trifles may 
be made with very little trouble ; for in- 
stance, mix a tablespoonful of flour with 
the paste ; roll it out ; cut into circles ; pinch 
up two sides ; place a little handle over the 
centre, and in each open end, which must be 
bent slightly upward, place a candied cherry. 



280 CHOICE COOKERY. 

Or cut a number of thin strips of paste, stick 
them together in the middle with white of 
egg, pass a strip of ahnond paste round so 
that the strips look like fagots of sticks, let 
them just color in the oven, sift sugar over 
them, and put them away. The paste may 
be rolled as thick as a pipe-stem and tied in 
knots, the surface just moistened, and sugar 
sifted over them; these also must only just 
take color in the oven. These are only sug- 
gestions for using up the trimmings from 
the cups. 



XXXI. 

MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS.— Continued, 

Raspberi'y Charlotte Russe. — The simplest 
and quite the most effective way of making 
charlottes of any kind is the following : Take 
a strip of light cartridge or drawing paper 
from two to three inches wide, measure it 
round a mould the size you wish the char- 
lotte to be, and cut it an inch larger ; piece 
the t\vo ends together, lapping an inch. 
Lay this paper circle on an ornamental dish 
(the one you wish to use), split lady-fingers, 
and stand them around it inside like a picket- 
fence, only as close together as they will go, 
inserting a pin from the outside through 
the paper and each cake as 3'ou do it. When 
you have lined the paper completely you will 
have a close frame of lady -fingers held in 
place by pins. Whip a pint of perfectly siceet 



382 CHOICE COOKERY. 

cream that is at least twenty-four hours old 
and has been thoroughly chilled on ice. 
Sweeten the cream wdth two tablespoonfuls 
of powdered sugar, and flavor it with a table- 
spoonful of YEiSipherry juice (not syrup) mixed 
with a tablespoonful of powdered sugar; 
sometimes the raspberry juice will color the 
cream a beautiful faint pink, which cannot 
be improved upon, but if ' it is not bright 
enough in tint stir in one or two drops of 
cochineal. If the Aveather is w^arm stand 
the vessel containing the cream in ice ; then 
beat without stopping to skim the froth as 
it rises. In about ten to fifteen minutes the 
cream ought to be perfectly solid if all the 
conditions w^ere observed, and the beating 
carried on in a cool, airy room. If, how- 
ever, the cream is not solid enough to keep 
shape, set it on ice for an hour and beat 
again. Fill the centre of the frame of lady- 
fingers, piling it high ; decorate either with 
chopped pistachio-nuts lightly sprinkled, or 
wdth rings of angelica. The raspberry /i^ic^ 



MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS, 283 

used for flavoring is to be obtained at first- 
class druggists', where the best quality of 
soda-water is sold. It is unsweetened, and 
although I have kept it two or three months 
in cool wreath er, it often will not keep many 
weeks ; it is therefore better to buy it by the 
gill or half-pint, if your druggist will sell it 
so, than to buy a large bottle, although it is 
so useful for making raspberry jelly, rasp- 
berry shrub, and many other things, that 
even a bottle is not likely to be wasted. It 
must not be confused with raspberry syrup^ 
which is heavily sweetened, but not nearly 
so frag-rant. Before servino: the charlotte 
remove the pins and take the paper off. 

Charlotte Riisse with Gelatine. — Prepare a 
frame as in last recipe, also beat a pint of 
cream sweetened and flavored with w^ine or 
to taste ; melt in a pint of milk half an ounce 
of gelatine. The French gelatine is very 
pure, easy to melt, and no more expensive 
than any other good kind, and for delicate 
uses preferable to them. Make the gela- 



284 CHOICE COOKEEY. 

tine and milk into a custard with two eggs, 
sweeten with two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
flavor to taste, and put to get cold, stirring 
it once in a while ; when it begins to thicken 
round the sides of the vessel beat with the 
esfo^-beater till foamv. You have now a ves- 
sel of whipped custard and one of whipped 
cream, both cold ; now mix the cream into 
the custard, a little at a time, giving the 
spoon a light upward movement ; do not stir 
it ; that deadens the cream ; your object is 
to keep it light; when all is mixed, fill the 
frame of cake with the spongy mixture ; dec- 
orate it either with drops and pipings of the 
mixture applied to the smooth surface, or 
with candied fruits cut into forms or various 
colored jellies. 

Of course a charlotte russe can be varied 
in many ways. It may be filled with the 
custard made with chocolate, and so be brown 
charlotte, or the filling may have apricot or 
currant jelly whipped into it with the gela- 
tine ; this is an admirable change. 



MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 285 

Almond Turban. — Make half a pound of 
fine puff-paste, give it nine turns, roll it the 
last time to the thickness of a dollar ; have 
ready half a pound of almonds, blanched 
and chopped ; put them in a bowl with half 
a pound of powdered sugar and the whites 
of two eggs, adding a very little more if the 
icing is too stiff to spread; spread the al- 
mond icing on the pastry as thick as a twen- 
ty-five-cent piece ; with a sharp knife cut the 
pastry into strips two and a half inches long 
and one in breadth ; bake these in a mod- 
erate oven a very pale brown ; make a cir- 
cle on a dish of some Jirm marmalade or 
jam ; when the almond cakes are cold, dress 
them in a crow^n on the jam, which serves to 
keep them in 2>lace ; fill the centre of the 
turban with vanilla ice - cream or simple 
whipped cream. 

Fine Small Calces for Dessert. — It may not 
be Avorth the while of a busy housekeeper 
within reach of a first-class confectioner's to 
make these, because, although when of fine 



286 CHOICE COOKERY. 

quality they are always expensive, yet they 
are also tedious to make. Many, however, 
live in country towns, Avhere there is no pos- 
sibility of obtaining anything better than the 
sandy products of the country bakery. 

A few really fine cakes can be made at a 
time, and kept in an air-tight box, Avith lay- 
ers of paper between, for some time. In 
speaking, however, of the tediousness I would 
not discourage the reader, for there are few 
more tedious things in cooking than the roll- 
ing out, making, and baking of thin cookies 
or ginger-snaps, and the result attained so 
inadequate. 

Bout Biscuits. — Boil a pound of sugar in 
half a pint of milk ; grate into it the rind of 
a lemon when cold ; rub half a pound of but- 
ter into a pound and a half of flour and a 
])ound of almond paste grated fine ; put as 
much carbonate of soda as would lie on a 
silver dime into the milk, and mix with the 
flour and almond paste ; beat two eggs, and 
make the whole into a firm, smooth paste ; 



MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 287 

print this paste with very small butter moulds 
if you have them, making little cakes just 
like the tiny pats of butter one gets at city 
restaurants. Bake on a well-buttered pan in 
a quick oven a ver}^ pale yellow. 

Macaroons. — These must be exempted from 
the charge of being tedious, they are so easily 
and quickl}" made. One pound of almond 
paste grated, one pound and a half of sugar, 
and the whites of seven eggs. Some confec- 
tioners use a teaspoonful of flour, with the 
idea that the macaroons are not so apt to 
fall. I recommend a trial of both methods ; 
they will both be good. Stir the sugar and 
the beaten white of eggs together just enough 
to mix, then by degrees add the grated paste, 
mashing with the back of a fork till it forms 
a perfectly smooth paste. Oil several sheets 
of paper cut to the size of your baking-pans. 
Dripping-pans may be used if you have no 
regular baking-sheets. . Lay a sheet of paper 
at the bottom of the pan. Put half a tea- 
spoonful of the macaroon paste on a scrap of 



288 CHOICE COOKERY. 

buttered paper in the oven. If it spreads 
too much it requires a very little more sugar ; 
if it does not spread at all, or so little as .to 
leave the surface rough, it is too stitf, and 
requires perhaps lutlf the white of an ^g^^ or 
the finger dipped in water and laid on each 
macaroon after they are on the paper is often 
sufficient — a little practice is all that is nec- 
essary. Lay the paste in half-teaspoonfuls 
on the oiled or greased paper. If the trial 
one indicated that they were slightly too 
stiff, lay a wet finger on each, sift powdered 
sugar over, and then put a pinch of chopped 
and blanched almonds in the centre with just 
enough pressure to keep them in place. As 
the macaroon spreads in the oven the al- 
monds scatter themselves. 

Macaroons should be baked cihout tAventy 
minutes in a moderate oven. They must be 
taken out while they are a very pale brown, 
but they must also be quite " set," or they 
will fall. If the oven is too quick they will 
brown too soon ; in that case leave the oven 



MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS. 289 

door open, taking care that no cold draught 
can blow on the macaroons. You can tell 
if they have browned too quickly by the 
cracks in them being still wdiite and sticky. 
When done both the cracks and surface 
should be the same pale color. The maca- 
roons must be left five minutes in the pan 
after leaving the oven without being touched. 
At the end of that time they may be gently 
taken off the pans on the papers^ from which 
they must not be detached until they are 
quite cold. Should they stick to the paper, 
moisten the back of it. 

Fine Ginger Dessert Cakes. — Rub half a 
pound of fresh butter into three quarters of 
a pound of flour ; beat three eggs with three 
quarters of a pound of powdered sugar and 
half a glass of rose water, the grated peel of 
a lemon, and a teaspoonful of the best pow- 
dered ginger — use the ginger carefully, try- 
ing a level spoonful first. Then mix all into 
a paste. If the flavor of ginger is not strong 
enough, add more ; they should taste well of 
19 



290 CHOICE COOKEEF. 

it, without being hot in the mouth. Roll 
the paste a quarter of an inch thick, and cut 
into small oval or round cakes, sift powdered 
sugar over them, and bake rather slowly a 
very pale brown. 



XXXII. 

FINE CAKES AXD SAUCES. 

Madeleines, — Four ounces of butter, four 
ounces of the best flour, three ounces of 
sugar, a teaspoonful of orange-flower water, 
the yolks of four eggs, and rind of a lemon. 
Beat butter, sugar, and yolks of eggs to- 
gether, then add the other ingredients ; grate 
in the rind of half a lemon, and add the well- 
beaten whites of eggs last of all. Fill little 
moulds that have been buttered with washed 
butter, cover the tops with split almonds and 
sifted sugar ; bake from thirty to forty min- 
utes in a moderate oven. These cakes are 
sometimes served hot with apricot sauce. 

Chestnut Croquettes. — Boil fifty sound chest- 
nuts ; take them out of the shells ; reject all 
imperfect ones ; keep the large pieces aside ; 
pound the crumbs and most broken pieces 



292 CHOICE COOKEEY. 

Avith an ounce of butter till very smooth ; 
then mix in a small cup of cream two ounces 
of butter and one ounce of powdered sugar ; 
put the whole into a double boiler, and stir 
in the beaten volks of six eo:D;s. Let the 
mixture set. When cool, make it into balls ; 
in the centre of each ball put a piece of the 
chestnut you have laid aside, dip the balls in 
fine cracker meal and eggs, and fry a very 
pale yellow. Serve wath sifted sugar. 

Yery pretty cakes, very easily made, wdiich 
come under the French term. petits fours, may 
be given here. 

Petits Fours. — Make rich cake mixture 
thus : Wash three quarters of a pound of 
butter to free it from excess of salt ; squeeze 
it dry in a cloth ; beat it w^ith the hand till 
creamy ; add three quarters of a pound of 
powdered sugar ; beat till light ; then beat 
in ten eggs, one by one, and sift in a pound 
of dried and sifted fiour. When all are w^ell 
beaten together, the jDaste or batter is ready 
for use. Line some shallow pans (those used 



FINE CAKES AND SAUCES. 293 

for making rolled jelly-cake are best) with 
buttered paper ; spread a layer of the mixt- 
ure just as you \Yould for jelly-cake, but much 
thicker, as when baked the sheets should not 
be more than the third of an inch thick. 
Bake slowly. When done, remove from the 
ov^en, but leave the cake undisturbed till cold. 
If the sheets are large, they may be cut ex- 
actly in half, spread thinly with some stiff 
marmalade or jelly ; quince or apricot is best, 
but any rich flavor with some tartness will 
do; lay one half on the other, and press 
closely and very neatly together. Do each 
sheet of cake in the same way, varying the 
marmalade if you choose. Have ready a 
bowl of icing (either boiled French icing or 
what is called royal icing). Dust the top of 
the cakes with flour, which must be brushed 
off again, as it is only to absorb the grease. 
Flavor the icing Avith vanilla, and lay it on 
the centre of the cake ; let it run over it, aid- 
ing with a knife dipped in water (shaking 
off the drops, however). The icing needs to 



294 CHOICE COOKERY. 

be xery neatlj done, and must not be thicker 
than a twenty-five-cent piece. Xow color 
the icing in the bowl pink, with a little cochi- 
neal, add a drop or two of extract of bitter 
almond or of lemon, either of which will 
agree with the vanilla that was in the Avhite 
icing ; then ice another sheet of cake in the 
same way ; a third may be done with choco- 
late icing. 

The beauty of these cakes will depend on 
the way they are cut. You may choose to 
make them tablets an inch wide and three 
inches long, or in lozenge shape — the true 
diamond — but in either case the cutting must 
be exact. The best way to have it so is to 
mark the lines very lightl}^ with the point 
of a penknife on the icing, using a measure. 
Trim off the edge of the cake with a sharj) 
knife, so that it is neat all round, no excess 
of marmalade oozino- out, or tears of icins: 
running down. Then warm a sharp carving- 
knife (I am supposing the cake is on a boardj, 
and cut through the lines you have marked, 



FIXE CAKES AXD SAUCES. 295 

without hesitation, so that there may be no 
crumbs or roughness, which slow, over-care- 
ful cutting causes. When cut up you should 
have, if neatly clone, an. assortment of very 
delicious and ornamental cakes. 

FREXCH SWEET SAUCES FOR PUDDLNX-S. ETC. 

Sauce Madtre a la 2farinaJa<Je. — A half- 
pound of apricot marmalade ; half a tumbler 
of Madeira or sherry ; boil three minutes, 
then pass through a sieve, and serve as sauce 
to soufflees, cabinet puddings, etc. 

Sauce des CEufs au Kirsch. — Beat the volks 
of eight eggs, put them in a saucepan with 
half a tumbler of kirsch. live ounces of pow- 
dered sugar, and half the rind of a lemon 
grated. Stir all in a double boiler till the 
mixtm'e sticks to the spoon ; then remove 
from the boiling water ; stir for a minute to 
prevent curdling ; then it is ready to serve. 

Chaudeau Sauce. — Take two whole e£:£:s, 
six yolks of eggs, and eight lumps of sugar 
(each one rubbed on lemon-peel), two pints 



296 CHOICE COOKERY. 

of Cliablis, and the juice of half a lemon; 
beat them over a slow fire in a double boiler 
till a light froth is formed ; be very careful 
the eo'trs do not curdle when the boilino^- 
point is reached ; take the sauce off the 
fire, and continue beating for a minute or 
two. If small streaks a^^pear on the froth 
the sauce is done. Stir in a tablespoon- 
ful of fine rum, and the sauce is ready to 
serve. 

Sherry Sauce for Puddings. — Six yolks of 
eggs, one ounce of sugar, half a pint of sher- 
ry, and the thin peel of a lemon. Beat the 
eggs with the sugar ; when the w^ine is warm, 
stir them into it (let the lemon-peel steep in 
the wine while warming) ; stir all together 
till as thick as cream ; then remove from the 
fire, and take out the peel. In making all 
these sauces with eggs the same precaution 
is required as in making custard. 

Wine Sauce, IS^o. 2. — Three gills of water, 
one cup of sugar, one teaspoonful of corn- 
starch, and one gill of wine. Mix the corn- 



FINE CAKES AND SAUCES. 297 

starch with a little water ; pour the rest boil- 
ing to it, stirring till smooth ; then add the 
sugar, and boil for five minutes ; then add 
the wine and a few drops of essence of lemon 
and the same of cinnamon. Use these flavor- 
ings drop by drop, as they differ in strength 
too much for an exact quantity to be given, 
and the taste must be the guide. Rum or 
brandy may be used instead of wine ; then 
the cinnamon is omitted. 

Aj?ricot /Sauces. — Half a small jar of apri- 
cot jam or marmalade ; dissolve it in three 
quarters of a gill of water with the juice of 
a lemon ; stir in three quarters of a gill of 
rum. This sauce is simply made hot, not 
boiled, and may be served cold with Baba or 
Savarin cake. Greengage marmalade may 
be substituted. 

W/iij)ped Sweet Sauce. — Put the yolks of 
four eggs into a double saucepan with two 
ounces of sugar, one glass of sherry, the juice 
of one lemon, and a speck of salt ; beat all 
together ; then set the saucepan over the 



298 CHOICE COOKERY. 

fire, and whisk the sauce till it is a creamy 
froth, when it is ready to serve. 

Yery Fine Sweet Butter Sauce. — Wash four 
ounces of butter ; squeeze it dry ; beat it to 
a hard sauce Avitli half a pound of powdered 
sugar ; then put the yolks of two eggs in a 
cold bowl ; stir it a minute, then add to it a 
little of the hard sauce ; when well mixed 
add more, about a teaspoonful at a time ; 
when the hard sauce is blended with the 
yolks of eggs, stir in by degrees a wineglass 
of brandy or rum. Keep on ice till wanted. 

Vanilla Cream Sauce. — Put half a pint of 
fresh cream to boil, reserving a tablespoon- 
f ul ; mix this with a teaspoonful of flour ; 
stir it into the cream, with a tablespoonful 
of sugar, when near boiling ; when it boils, 
stir for five minutes or ten in a double boiler ; 
then pour out the sauce, and stir in a small 
teaspoonful of vanilla and a few drops of ex- 
tract of rose or a teaspoonful of rose-water. 
Observe that the rose is used to give a dif- 
ferent tone to the vanilla, and not to impart 



FINE CAKES AND SAUCES. 299 

its own flavor, therefore very little must be 
used. 

Almond Sauce. — Dissolve four ounces of 
almond paste in half a pint of sweet cream 
by stirring in a double boiler (the almond 
paste should be grated first) ; when both are 
hot, add a tablespoonful of sugar and the 
yolk of an ^gg ; stir till the ^gg thickens, 
then remove from the fire and serve. 



XXXIII. 

SALADS AND CHEESE DISHES. 

Salad has come to form part of even the 
simplest dimiers; and certainly cold meat 
and salad and excellent bread and butter 
make a meal by no means to be despised 
even by an epicure, while cold meat and 
bread and butter sound very untempting. 
The best dinner salad will perhaps always 
be wdiite, crisp lettuce, with a simple French 
dressing, although, to those acquainted with 
it, escarole runs it hard, with its cool, watery 
ribs and crisp leaves. Elaborate salads, or 
those dressed with mayonnaise, are too heavy 
to form the latter part of an already suffi- 
ciently nourishing meal, but for luncheons 
and suppers the rich salad is invaluable. 

Salad vrhich is to be eaten with game or 
to form a course at dinner may be a crisp 



SALADS AND CHEESE DISHES. 301 

white cabbage lettuce, Avater-cress, Romaine 
lettuce, or that most delicious form of endive, 
escarole. 

The dressing should be the simple French 
dressing, about which so much has been writ- 
ten and said, and which is so easy that per- 
haps it is one reason why so few make it 
well. There is nothino; to remember bevond 
the proportions, and so many keejD the quan- 
tity of oil, vinegar, and pepper and salt in 
mind, but the manner of using them seems 
of no consequence ; but it is of so much con- 
sequence, if you do not want the vinegar on 
the leaves and the oil at the bottom of the 
salad bowl, that, well known as the formula 
is, I am going over it again with a few 
details that may help to fix the matter in 
mind. 

In the first place it must be remembered 
that a wet leaf will repel oil, therefore the 
lettuce or other salad must be well dried be- 
fore it is sent to table. This is best done 
by swinging it in a salad basket, and then 



302 CHOICE COOKERY. 

spreading it bet^YeeIl two clotiis for a few 
minutes. Xow it must be quite evident, if a 
leaf wet with water will refuse to retain oil, 
that one wet with vinegar will do the same ; 
for this reason the leaves should be covered 
with oil hefore the vinegar is added, or the 
salad will be crude and very unlike what it 
should be if properly mixed in the following 
way : ' 

Take lettuce as the example, although any 
of those mentioned are made in the same 
way. Have the lettuce dry in the salad 
bowl, put in the salad-spoon a saltspoonful 
of salt, a quarter one of pepper, and, hold- 
ing it over the bowl, fill the spoon with oil ; 
mix the salt and pepper well with it, and 
turn it over the salad ; toss the salad lightly 
over and over till the leaves glisten, then add 
two (if for epicures, three or four) more 
spoonfuls of oil, then toss again over and 
over till every leaf is well coated with oil ; 
then sprinkle in a saladspoonful of sharp 
vinegar. Toss again, and the salad is ready. 



SALADS AND CHEESE DISHES. 303 

One salad less well known than it deserves 
to be is that made from the grape fruit. 
This is an especially grateful dish for spring 
breakfast, when cool, refreshing things are 
in order. Many tell me they have tried to 
eat grape fruit, but find it quite impossible 
on account of the intense bitter. 

There is a very slight and pleasant bitter 
with grape fruit when properly prepared, 
but if by carelessness or ignorance even a 
small portion of the pith is left in it intense 
bitter is imparted to the whole. 

Grape -fruit Salad, — Prepare the fruit, 
some hours before it is wanted, in the fol- 
lowing way : Cut the fruit in four -as you 
would an orange; separate the sections; 
then remove the pulp from each, taking care 
that no wdiite pith or skin adheres to it. 
Put the pulp on the ice until just before 
serving ; then dress with oil and vinegar ex- 
actly as directed for lettuce, etc. 

Meat or fish salads should always be dressed 
with mavonnaise. I say nothing of the well- 



304 



CHOICE COOKERY 



known lobster and chicken salads, which are 
so general that one is tempted to think the 
majority of people do not know how ex- 
cellent some other combination salads are. 
Salmon salad — the fish flaked, laid on a bed 
of crisp lettuce with a border of the leaves, 
and masked with mayonnaise, with a gar- 
nish of aspic — is both handsome and deli- 
cious ; but cold halibut, or even cod — any 
firm fish that flakes, in fact — make delight- 
ful salads, and acceptable to many who can- 
not eat lobster. In the way of meat salads, 
partridge or grouse are far daintier than 
chicken, prepared in just tlie same way. 
There is one point, however, which should 
be observed in making all meat salads : it is 
that the material should be well dressed with 
oil, vinegar, and condiments before the may- 
onnaise is put on. Usually one of two courses 
is followed : either the meat is left dry, the 
mayonnaise being supposed sufficient, or it is 
dressed with mayonnaise and then masl^ed 
w4th it. In the latter case the salad is far 



SALADS AND CHEESE DISHES. 



305 



too rich ; in the former it is flat, because 
mayonnaise, if rightl}^ made, has not acidity 
enough to flavor the meat ; therefore it and 
the celery or other salad mixed with it should 
be bathed with French dressing before it is 
masked. 

With these general rules any salad may be 
made; but as variety is the spice of the ta- 
ble, it may be borne in mind that in spring 
a sprig of mint, very finely chopped, gives a 
fragrance to lettuce, as does chervil or borage, 
parsley, or a tiny bit of onion. To a game 
salad nothing should be added. 

JS^o recipe is needed for mayonnaise, it hav- 
ing been given in the chapter on cold sauces. 

In the course of these chapters several 
cheese dishes have been given, but there are 
a few others especially appropriate to the 
cheese and salad course, where it constitutes 
part of the dinner, which I v\ill include. 
Cheese dishes are far less popular in this 
country than in Europe, but there are fami- 
lies whose masculine members eat no sweets, 
20 



306 



CHOICE COOKERY, 



and for whom a dainty cheese dish would be 
very acceptable. 

Genoa Itamaquin. — Cut a slice of Yienna 
or other baker's bread, half an inch thick, 
lengthwise of the loaf, so that it covers the 
bottom of a fire-proof dish — a souffle pan 
w^ell buttered is excellent; beat two eggs 
and half a pint of milk together ; add a level 
saltspoonful of salt; pour this custard over 
the bread, and leave it an hour to soak. 
Pour off any custard that may not be ab- 
sorbed; dust the bread with pepper; then 
cover with the following mixture : dissolve 
as much rich cheese shaved in half a gill of 
cream as will cover the bread an inch thick, 
stirring it over a slow fire. Season with pep- 
per and salt, and pour the cheese over the 
bread. Put it in the oven, and bake for half 
an hour, or till quite brown. 

Cheese Pvffs. — Line patty-pans with puff- 
paste, and fill three parts full with the fol- 
lowing mixture : put a gill of cream in a 
double boiler with two ounces of grated 



SALADS AND CHEESE DISHES. ^^'^ 

cheese (half Parmesan if Kked), a saltspoon- 
ful of salt, a pinch of pepper, a pinch of 
sugar, and a large teaspoonf al of butter ; 
when all is melted to a thick custard, break 
into it two eggs well whipped. The mixt- 
ure is only to be made hot enough to melt 
the cheese, not to boil. 

Cheese Sticks. — Take a piece of light bread 
dough about the size of a teacup, roll it out 
on a pastry-board, spread it with bits of firm 
butter, dredge with flour, fold and roll, re- 
peat until you have rolled in two ounces of 
butter, just as for puff -paste ; now roll the 
pastry out the third of an inch thick, cut 
into strips half an inch wide and any length 
you think proper, lay them very straight on 
a baking-sheet, and bake slowly a venj light 
brown ; remove from the oven, let them cool, 
then brush them over with white of eo-o-, and 
roll them thickly in grated Parmesan ; return 
for a minute or two to the oveu. These are 
very good with salad, but cannot easily be 
made in warm weather. Should the pastry 



308 CHOICE COOKERY. 

get too soft while rolling, put it on ice, and 
it is better to do so at all times before cut- 
ting into strips, so that the " sticks " may be 
quite straight. 



INDEX. 



Allemande Sauce, 18. 

Almond Cream, 2"29, 251 : Sauce, 

299; Tiitles, 279; Turban, 

285 ; Water-ice, 255. 
Apple Jellv, 212 ; Compote, 203- 

265. 
Apricot Sauces, 297; AVater-ices, 

256. 
Artichokes, Fried, 198. 
Aspic, Jelly, 195; Lobster in, 

79; INIayonnaise, 47 ; Oysters 

in, 76 ; Reed-birds in, 159. 

Ballotines, 177. 
Bearuaise Sauce, 26. 
Bechamel Sauce, 17, 159. 
Beef, Fillets of, 86-89. 
]?eet-root Fritters, 198. 
Birds, how to bone, 172-175; 

how to stuff, 175. 
Biscuits, Rout, 286. 
Bouchees, 12-4. 
Bouquet of herbs, 37. 

Cabinet Puddiufr, 233, 239. 
Cakes, Dessert, 285, 289. 
Cakes and Sauces, tine, 291-295. 

Chestnut Croquettes, 291. 

Madeleines, 291. 

Pet its Fours, 292. 



Candied Orancce and Lemon 

Peels, 260, 261. 
Caper Sauce, 29. 
Cardinal Sauce, 30. 
Cauliflower Fritters, 198. 
Celerv Sauce, 29. 
Charlotte Russe, 281-283. 
Chateaubriand Sauce, 34. 
Chaudfroid Sauce, 160. 
Chaudfroids. (See Entrees.) 
Cheese Dishes, 306-308. 

Genoa Raraaquin, 306. 

Puffs, 306. 

Sticks, 307. 
Chestnut Soup, 57 ; Croquettes, 

291. 
Chicken, a la Hollandaise, 114. 

And Ham Cutlets, 157. 

Chaudfroids of, 156. 

Fritot of, 132. 

Patties, 121. 

Salad, 154. 

Scallops, 130. 

Tartlets, 114, 

Timbale of, 129. 

Turtle fashion, 136. 
Chocolate Cream Pudding, 245. 
Choice Cookery explained, 1-3. 
Chojis, Lamb and Mutton, 98- 
103. 



310 



INDEX. 



Cigarettes, 108, 135, 136. 
Cinnamon, care in selecting, 

216: Water-ice, 255. 
Claret Granito, 258; Jellv. 215. 
Cod, Fillets of, 62. 
Cold Game Pies, 183-190. 
Compote of Apples, 263-265 ; of 
Cherries, 272; of Chestnuts, 
269, 270; of Oranges, 269; 
of Pears, 266, 268;' of Pig- 
eons, 145; of Strawberries. 
272. 
Consomme, 51-55. 
Coqiiilles, 63, 64. 
Creams, 223-230, 235-237. 
Almond Cream, 229. 
Bohemian Jellv Creams, 

237. 
Cocoanut Cream, 235. 
Coffee Cream, 226. 
Cura^oa Cream, 226. 
Ginger Cream, 224. 
Hazel-nut Cream, 236. 
Here and in Europe, 223. 
Neapolitan Cream, 224. 
Nut Creams, 235. 
Pistache Cream, 229. 
Strawberry Cream. 227. 
Vanilla Cream, 227. 
Walnut or Hickory - nut 

Cream, 237. 
Whipped Cream, 213, 214. 
Croquettes, Chestnut, 291: man- 
ner of preparing, 107. 
Cucumber, Fillets of, 99 ; Fillets 
of Kabbit with. 150; Sauce, 
29,48; Stuffed, 199. 
Culinary matters, 79-85. 
Cura(;oa, 258. 
Currant Water-ice, 256. 
Currants, how to cook, 271. 



Cutlets, how to prepare, 107. 
Chicken and Ham, 157. 
Lamb, 99, 100. 
Mutton, 90, 98. 
Pigeon, 143. 
Kussiau Salad for, 101. 
Sweetbread, 109. 
Veal, 139. 

Decorations, uneatable, 196. 
Dessert, Small Cakes for, 285. 
Downton Sauce, 39. 
Dresden Patty Cases, 118. 

Entrees, 86-106, 129-152, 153- 
171. 

A Civet, 150. 

Baked Kavioli, 137. 

Cold Lamb Cutlets in Mint 
Jellv, 100. 

Chicken Souffle, 131. 

Chicken, Turtle fashion, 186. 

Cigarettes a la Chasseur,135. 

Cigarettes k la Peine, 134. 

Cutlets Chaudfroid ii la 
Kusse, 102. 

Filets de Ikeuf a la Eear- 
naise, 87. 

Filets de Boeuf aux Cham- 
pignons, 87. 

Fillet of Beef, 86. 

Fillets of Beef a la Grande- 
Bretagne, 89. 

Fillets of Cucumber, 99. 

Fillets of Babbit with Cu- 
cumber, 150. 

Fillets of Teal with Ancho- 
vies, 148. 

Fritot of Chicken. 132. 

Grenadines of Beef with 
Mushrooms and Poivrade 
Sauce, 88. 



INDEX. 



311 



Entrees — Continued. 

Grenadines of Kabbit a la 

Soubise, 149. 
Lamb Cutlets en Coucombre. 
. 99. 
Lamb Cutlets with a Puree 

of Mushrooms, 100. 
Lobster Quenelles, 136. 
Mutton Cutlets a la d'Uxel- 

les, 90. 
Mutton Cutlets a la Mila- 

naise, 90. 
Muttou Cutlets, or Chops, 

98. 
Pigeon Cutlets, 143. 
Pigeons a la Tartare, 144. 
Quails a la Jubilee, 141. 
Quails a la Lucullus, 140. 
Salmis of Snipe, 147. 
Scallops of Chicken a la 

Perigord, 130. 
Souffle" of Partridges, 146. 
Sweetbreads a la Supreme, 

103. 
Sweetbreads in Cases, 106, 
Sweetbreads with Oysters, 

104. 
Timbale of Chicken a la 

Champenois, 1"29. 
Timbales d'l^pinard, 151. 
Yeal Cutlets a la Primrose, 
139. 
Entrees, Cold, or Chaudfroids, 
153-171. 
Allumettes, 170, 
Canapes a la Bismarck, 

1G5, 
Caviare Canapes, 166, 
Chaudfroid of Keed-birds, 

160. 
Cliaudfroids of Chicken, 156. 



Entrees, Cold — Continued. 

Cheese Biscuits a la St. 

James, 168. 
Chicken and Ham Cutlets, 

157. 
Chicken Salad a la Prince, 

154. 
Cold Cheese Souffles, 169. ^ 
Croutes de Fromage Glace, 

169. 
Eggs a la St, James, 170. 
Iced Savory Souffle, 162. 
Kluskis of Cream Cheese, 

168. 
Ovsters a la St, George, 

"l69. 
Prawns en Surprise, 166. 
Prince of Wales Canapes, 

167. 
Reed-birds in Aspic, 159. 
Savage Club Canapes, 164. 
Savories, 162-164. 
Shrimp Canapes, 168. 
Sweetbread au Montpellier, 
153. 
Entrees, Fish, 61-70, 

Coquilles of Prawns, 63. 
Coquilles of Salmon or Hali- 
but, 64. 
Fillet of Flounders, 69. 
Fillet of Sole a la Nor- 

mande, 65. 
Fillets of Cod a la Nor- 

mande, 62. 
Lobster in Aspic, 79. 
Lobster Soufflees, 62. 
Salmon en Papillotes, 65. 
Sole a I'Horly, 66. 
Turbans of Sole a la Rouen- 
naise, 67. 
Espaguole Sauce, 33. 



312 



INDEX. 



Fillet, how to, 181, 182. 
Fillets of Rabbits, 150. 
Flavorings and Liqueurs, 210- 

212. 
Flounders, Fillet of, 69. 
Fritters, 198. 

Fruits, Macedoine of, 222. 
Frying, directions tor, 01-95. 

Galantines, 172-177. 

Of Breast of Veal. 178. 

Of Sucking Pig, 179. 
Game Pie, 183. 

English manner of making, 
in a crust, 189, 190. 

Filling the case of, 186. 

French method of making, 
185. • 
Game, Salad to eat with, 300. 
Garnishes, 191-198. 

Colored Custard, 192. 

Protiterolles, 194. 

Spinach Juice, 192. 

Stuffed Artichokes, 197. 
Gelatine, 196; right proportion 

for jelly, 217. 
Ginger Cream, 224: Dessert 

Cakes, 289 ; Water-ice, 253. 
Glaze, 8 ; how to preserve, 10. 
Graniti, 257, 258. 

Claret Granito, 258. 

Sherry Granito, 258. 

To freeze, 257. 
Grape-fruit Salad, 303. 
Grenadines of Pabbit, 149. 

Ham, Puree of, 152. 

Herbs, French, 12 ; how to 

chop, 81 ; what required, 

12. 

Horseradish Sauce. 48. 



Ice-creams and Ices, 246-256. 

Almond AVater-ice. 255. 

Apricot "Water-ice, 256. 

Chinese Ice, 252. 

Cinnamon Water-ice, 255o 

Currant Water-ice, 256. 

Custard for Ice-cream, 249. 

Fruit Jam and Jellies Avith 
Ice-cream, 250. 

Ginger Water-ice, 253. 

Grilled Almond Ice-cream, 
251. 

Ice-cream with Eggs, 249. 

Pineapple Water-ice, 254. 

Pistachio Water-ice, 255. 

Simplest Fruit Ice-cream, 
246. 

Tea Ice-cream, 252. 

Tutti-frutti Ice-cream, 248. 
Ice Pudding, 240, 241. 
Iced Custard with Fruit, 244. 
Iced Puddings. 238, 239, 241, 
243. 

Jellies, 208-225. 

Aspic Jelly, 195. 

Consistency of Jelly, 214. 

Jellied Raspberries, 221. 

Jellv Avith Candied Fruits, 
220. 

Jellv with Fresh Fruits, 
218. 

Mint Jellv, 49. 

Mould of 'Apple Jellv, 212, 

Plain Claret Jelly, 215. 

Right proportions of Gela- 
tine for Jelly, 217. 

Roman Piuich Jellies, 222. 

Kabobs, Oyster, 72-74. 
Kromeskies, 107. 



INDEX. 



313 



Lamb Cutlets, 99, 100. 

Lemon Baskets, 274 ; Peels, 
Candied, 261. 

Lemons, how to grate, 82. 

Liqueurs and Flavorings, 210- 
212. 

Lobster, in Aspic, 79 ; Que- 
nelles, 136 ; Sauce, 29 ; Souf- 
flees, 62. 

Macaroons, 287. 
Macedoine of Fruits, 222. 
Madeleines, 291. 
Maraschino, 259. 
Matelote Sauce, 40. 
Mayonnaise, 43, 46, 47. 
IMeal, quantity to be used, 75. 
Meringue Paste, 251. 
Mint Jelly, 49. 
IMother Sauces, 6. 
Mushroom Baskets, 201. 
Mushroom Jelly, 200. 
Mushrooms and Tomatoes, 200. 
INIushrooms, Stuffed, 200. 
Mutton Cutlets, 90, 98. 

Neapolitan Cream, 224. 
Norwegian Sauce, 47. 
Nut Creams, 229, 235-237. 

Onion, Spanish, 202-204. 
Orange Baskets, 272, 274. 
Orange Compote, 269. 
Orange Sauce, 39. 
Oyster Kabobs, 72, 74 ; Sauce, 29. 
Oysters, 71-78. 

A la Tartare, 78. 

A la Yilleroi, 71. 

In Aspic, 76. 

Various wavs of serving, 
71-78. 



Papillotes, 65. 
Parsley Sauce, 29. 
Partridges, Souffle of, 146. 
Patties, 116-124. 

Cliicken, 121. 

Dresden Cases for, 118. 

Oyster, 121. 

Sweetbread, 120. 
Pears, a la Princesse, 267 ; Com- 
pote of, 265, 266, 268. 
Petits Fours, 292. 
Pies, Game, 183-190. 
Pigeon Cutlets, 143. 
Pigeons, a la Tartare, 144; 

Compote of, 145. 
Pineapple Water-ice, 251. 
Piquante Sauce, 35. 
Pistache Cream, 229. 
Pistachio Water-ice, 255. 
Poivrade Sauce, 36. 
Potage, a la HoUandaise, 56; a 

la Royale, 59. 
Potatoes, a la Proven^ale, 204 ; 
Milanese, 205; Scalloped, 205. 
Poulette Sauce, 20. 
Prawns, Coquilles of, 63. 
Princess Soup, 58. 
ProfiteroUes. 194. 
Puddings, 230-234, 238-246. 

Bombay Ice Pudding, 241. 

Chocolate Cream Pudding, 
245. 

Cold Cabinet Pudding, 233. 

Cold Souffle Pudding, 231. 

Diplomatic Pudding, 232. 

Filbert and Wine Iced Pud- 
ding, 243. 

Frangipanni Iced Pudding, 
238. 

Frozen Pudding, 235. 

Ice Pudding, 240. 



314 



INDEX. 



ruddings — Continued. 

Iced Cabinet Pudding, 239. 

Iced Custard with Fruit, 244. 

Iced Jelly Pudding, 241. 

Iced Puddings, 243. 

Imperial Kice Pudding, 231. 

Jubilee Pudding, 230. 

Kice a la Princesse, 245. 

Sauces for, 295-299. 
Puifs, Cheese, 30(5. 
Puree of Ham, 152. 

Quenelles for entrees, 125-129; 
for soups, 53, 54. 

Kabbit, Grenadines of, 149 ; Fil- 
lets of, 150. 

Kabbits, 148. 

Paspberries, how to cook, 271 ; 
Jellied, 221. 

Ratafia, 259. , 

Kavioli, Baked, 137. 

Ked Mayonnaise, 46. 

lieed-birds, Chaudfroids of, 160; 
in Aspic, 159. 

Rice Pudding, 231. 

Rissoles, 108^ 

Robert Sauce, 38. 

Roman Punch Jellies, 222. 

Rout Biscuits, 286. 

Russian Salad fur Cutlets, 101. 

Salads, 300-305. 

Best dinner, 300. 

For Cutlets, 100. 

Grape-fruit, 303. 

How to dress, 301, 302. 

To eat with game, 300. 
Salmis of Snipe, 147. 
Salmon, Coquilles of, 64; en 
Papillotes, 65. 



Sauces, 11-22; 23-32; 33-41; 
42-50. 
A la d'Uxelles, 20. 
A la Normande, 38. 
AUemande, 18. 
Almond, 299. 
Apricot. 297. 
Aspic Mayonnaise, 47. 
Bearnaise, 26. 
Bechamel, 17, 159. 
Blonde, or White, 13-32. 
Bordelaise, 37. 
Brown, 33-41. 
Caper, 29. 
Cardinal. 30. 
Celery, 29. 
Chateaubriand, 34. 
Chaudfroid, 160, 161. 
Cold Cucumber, 48. 
Cold Sauces, 42-50. 
Consistency of, 24, 105. 
Cucumber, 29. 
Des (Eufs au Kirsch, 295. 
Down ton, 39. 
Espagnole, 33. 
Green Mayonnaise, 46. 
Hollandaise, 30. 
Horseradish, 48. 
How to stir, 17. 
Light Normande, 39. 
Lobster, 29. 

INIadere a la Marmalade, 295. 
jNIatclote, 40. 
jMayonnaise, 43, 46, 47. 
Mint, 49. 
Mother Sauces, G. 
Norwegian, 47. 
Orange, 39. 
Ovster, 29. 
Parsley, 29. 
Pi(piante, 35. 



INDEX. 



315 



Sauces — Continued. 

Poivrade, 36. 

Poiilette, 20. 

Red Mayonnaise, 40. 

Robert, 38. 

Rule for seasoning, 18. 

Sherry, 296. 

Shrimp, 29, 30. 

Soubise, 27. 

Ste. Menehould, 25. 

Supreme, 23. 

Sweet Butter, very tine, 298 

Sweet, French, for Pud- 
dings, 295-299. 

Tartare, 48. 

Vanilla Cream, 298. 

Yeloute, or Wliite, 14. 

Yilleroi, 21. 

Wine, 296. 

Whipped Sweet, 297. 

White, 23-32. 
Sauteing, 95, 96. 
Scalloped Potatoes, 205. 
Scallops of Chicken, 130. 
Sherry Granito, 258 ; Sauce, 296. 
Shrim'p Sauce, 29, 30. 
Sole, a THorly, 66; u la Nor- 

mande, 65; Rouennaise, 67. 
Soubise Sauce, 27 ; with Gren- 
adines of Rabbit, 149. 
Souffla of Chicken, 131; of 

Lobster, 02 ; of Partridges, 

146; of Tomato, 206. 
Soups, 51-60. 

Chestnut, 57. 

Consomme a la Rachel, 52. 

Consomme a la Sevigne, 55. 

Potage !i la Hollandaise, 56. 

Potage a la Ro\'alo, 59. 

Princess, 58. 
. To clear Consomme, 51. 



Spanish Onion, 204. 
Spices and herbs required, 12. 
Spinach Fritters,206; Juice, 192. 
Ste. Menehould Sauce, 25. 
Stock, 7 ; to reduce to Glaze, 8. 
Strawberries, how to cook, 271 ; 

Compote of, 272. 
Strawberry Cream, 227. 
Stuffed Artichokes, 197; Cu- 
cumbers, 199. 
Sucking Pig, Ballotines of, 179. 
Supreme Sauce, 23. 
Sweet Sauce for Puddings, 295- 

299. 
Sweetbreads, a la Supreme, 
103; au Montpellier, 153 
braised, 113 ; Cutlets of, 109 
in Cases, 106; Patties, 120 
with Ovsters, 104. 
Sweets, 262-280. 

Almond Trifles, 279. 
Almond Turban, 285. 
Charlotte Russe with Gela- 
tine, 283. 
Compote of Apple iNIarma- 

lade, 265. 
Compote of Apples or Pears 

Grille, 265. 
Compote of Cherries, 272. 
Compote of Oranges, 269. 
Compote of Pears, 266. 
Compote of Strawberries, 

272. 
Compote of Stuffed Apples, 

264. 
Compotes of Apple, 263, 264. 
Compotes of Ciiestnuts, 269, 

270. 
Fine Small Dessert Cakes, 

285. 
Ginger Dessert Cakes, 289. 



316 



INDEX. 



Sweets — Continued. 
Lemon Baskets, 274. 
Little China Dishes, 278. 
Macaroons, 287. 
Orange Baskets filled with 

fruit, 272. 
Orange Basket Glace, 274. 
Pears a la Princesse, 2G7. 
Pink Compote, 267. 
Easpberry Charlotte IJusse, 

281. 
Rout Biscuits, 285. 
Swiss Yacherin. 276. 
Variegated Compote of 

Pears, 268. 

Tartare Sauce, 48. 
Teal with Anchovies, 148. 
Timbale of Chicken, 129. 
Timbales d'Epinard, 151. 
Tomato Jelly, 205 : Souffle, 206. 
Tomatoes and Mushrooms, 200. 
Trifles, Almond, 279. 
Turban, Almond, 285. 
Turbans of Sole, 67. 

Uneatable decorations, 196. 

Yacherin, Swiss, 276. 

Yanilla Cream, 227 ; Cream 

Sauce. 298. 
Yariegated Compote of Pears. 

268. 
Yeal Cutlets a la Primrose, 139. 
Yegetables, 197-207. 

A few wa\'S of cookiini', 197. 

Beet-root Fritters, 198. 

Cauliflower Fritters, 198. 



Yegetables — Continued. 

Fried Artichokes, 198. 

INIilanese Potatoes, 205, 

INIushroom Baskets, 201. 

IMushroom Jelly, 200. 

Mushrooms and Tomatoes, 
200. 

Mushrooms stuffed a la Lu- 
cuUus, 200. 

Potatoes a la Proven(;ale,204. 

Scalloped Potatoes, 205. 

Spanish or Portuguese On- 
ion, 202, 203. 

Spinach Fritters, 206. 

Stuffed Cucumbers, 199. 

Stuffed Spanish Onion, 204. 

Tomato Jelly. 205. 

Tomato Souffle, 206. 

Yarious wavs of serving, 
199-207. 
Yeloute, or White, Sauce, 14. 
Yilleroi Sauce, 21. 

Walnut or Hickorv-nut Cream, 

237. 
Wffter-ices, 253-256. 

Almond, 255. 

Apricot, 256. 

Cinnamon. 255. 

Currant, 256. 

(iinger, 253. 

Pineapple, 254. 

Pistachio, 255. 
Wiiipped Cream, 213, 214; 

Sweet Sauces, 297. 
White Sauces, 23-32. 
Wine, Iced Pudding, 243; 
Sauces, 296. 



THE END. 



MISS CORSON'S FAMILY LIVING ON 
$500 A YEAH. 



Family Livino; on $500 a Year. A Daily Reference 
Book for Young and Inexperienced Housewives. 
By Juliet Corson. 16mo, Cloth, $1 25. 

If we ever get as much as $500 a year we shall purchase 
this book and live like a prince. ... It goes carefully through 
the expenses of daily living, and indicates the thousand and 
one ways in which a penny can be saved and another penny 
put where it will do most good. A book of this kind placed 
in the hands of those who have very limited means will show 
that they can live very comfortably and have quite enough 
to eat on a very small sum. — JV. Y. Herald. 

It is a helpfid working book, sensible and practical, and 
tells how to bu}', cook, and serve all sorts of food ; how to 
can, pickle, and preserve; and how to arrange and serve 
luncheons, dinners, and teas, all in the most economical man- 
ner consistent with appetizing results. — Sunday-School Times, 
Philadelphia. 

Food-economist, cook-book, and instructor in table service 
all in one. . . . The book is a capital one, and every house- 
keeper should feel grateful to the able a: d painstaking au- 
thor.— .V. Y, Post. 

The production of a lady who understands her subject 
thoroughly, and who earnestly wishes to help others towards 
the same useful knowledge. ... A book of this sort (and 
Miss Corson is the best able to produce it of any one we 
know) is a great aid, and the more it is circulated the more 
liouseliolds will be made happy. — Churckmcm, X. Y. 

Every house-keeper, whether coming Avithin the scope of 
the author's effort or not, Avill find many instructive hints, a 
due regard for which will be conducive to the improved phys- 
ical w-ell-being and increased mental serenity of the various 
members of her household, — St. Louis Republican. 



Published by HARPER & BROTHERS, Xew York. 

Hakper & Bkotiiers will send the above work hytnail, post- 
age prepaid., to any part of the United States or 
. Canada, on receipt of the price. 



MRS. SHERWOOD'S MANNERS AND 
SOCIAL USAGES IN AMERICA. 



Manners and Social Usages in America. A Book 
of Etiquette. By Mrs. John Sherwood, pp. 448. 
New and Enlarged Edition, llevised by the Au- 
thor. ICnio, Extra Cloth, $1 25. 

Mrs. Sherwood's admirable little volume differs from ordi- 
nary works on the subject of etiquette, chiefly in the two facts 
that it is founded on its author's personal familiarity with the 
usages of really good society, and that it is insi)ired by good- 
sense and a helpful spirit. . . . We think Mrs. Sherwood's lit- 
tle book the very best and most sensible one of its kind that 
we ever saw. — i\\ Y. Commercial Advertiser. 

We have no hesitation in declaring it to be the best work 
of the kind yet published. The author shows a just appreci- 
ation of what is good-breeding and what is snobbishness. . . . 
In happy discriminations the excellence of Mrs. Sherwood's 
book is conspicuous. — Brookhjn Union. 

It is a sensible and pleasantly written volume, which has 
already won recognition as one of the best books of its kind, 
and this new edition is called for by the heartiness with which 
the public has endorsed the work. — Courier., Boston. 

A sensible, comprehensive book, which has endured criti- 
cism successfullv, and deserves now to be regarded the best 
book of its kind published in this countrv. ... A better 
guide than Mrs. Sherwood's book through the paths of social 
usages we do not know. The book is a handsome one, as it 
ought to be. — Christian Intelligencer^ X. Y, 



PucLisiiKD BY HARPER & BROTHERS, New York. 

CIF" IlAnPKii & Brothers inll send the above irork by mail, post- 
age 2yrepaid, to any jxirt of the United States or 
Canada, on receipt of the ]irice. 



BOOKS FOR THE HOUSEHOLD. 



MRS. HEXDERSOX\S PRACTICAL COOKING. 
Practical Cooking" and Dinner Giving. A Treat- 
ise containing- Practical Instrnctions in Cooking; 
in the Combination and Serving of Dishes, and in 
the Fashionable modes of Entertaining at Break- 
fast, Lunch, and Dinner. By Mary F. Hexder- 
sox. Illustrated. 12rao, AYater- proof Cover, 
$1 50. 

MRS. HENDERSON'S DIET FOR THE SICK 
Diet for the Sick. A Treatise on the Values of 
Foods, their Application to Special Conditions 
of Health and Disease, and on the Best Methods 
of their r*reparation. By Mary F. Henderson. 
Illustrated. 12mo, Cloth, $1 50 

MRS. WASHINGTON'S UNRIVALLED COOK- 
BOOK. The Unrivalled Cook-Book and House- 
keeper's Guide. By Mrs. Washington. 12 mo, 
Water-proof Cover, $2 00. 

MRS. SMITH'S VIRGINIA COOKERY-BOOK. 
Virginia Cookery - Book. By Mary Stuart 
Smith. 12mo, Cloth, $1 50; 4to, Papfer, 25 cents. 

BAZAR COOKING RECEIPTS. Cooking Re- 
ceipts from Harper s Bazar. 32 mo. Paper, 25 
cents; Cloth, 40 cents, 

MISS OAKEY'S BEAUTY IX DRESS. Beauty 
in Dress. By Miss Oakey. 16mo, Cloth, $1 00. 



Books for the .Household. 



MRS. DEWING'S (MISS OAKEY) BEAUTY IN 
THE HOUSEHOLD. Beauty in the Household. 
]}y Mrs. T. W. Dewing, Author of "Beauty in 
DressJ' Illustrated. 16mo, Cloth, $1 00. 

COAN\S OUNCES OF PREVENTION. Ounces 
of Prevention. By Titus Munson Coan, M.D. 
12mo, Paper, 25 cents ; Clotli, 50 cents. 

MRS. CHURCH'S MONEY-MAKING FOR LA- 
DIES. Money- Making- for Ladies. By Ella 
RoDMAx Church. 16uio, Cloth, 90 cents. 

WALKER'S HINTS TO WOMEN ON THE 
CARE OF PROPERTY. Hints to Women on 
the Care of Property. By Alfred Walker. 
32mo, Paper, 20 cents; Cloth, 35 cents. 

MISS CORSON'S FAMILY LIVING. Family Liv- 
ing on $500 a Year. A Daily Reference Book 
for Young and Inexperienced Housewives. By 
Juliet Corson. 16mo, Cloth, 81 25. 

MRS. HERRICK'S HOUSE -KEEPING MADE 
EASY. House-keepmg Made Easy. By Chris- 
tine Terhune Herrick. I6mo, Cloth, $1 00- 



PuBLiSHED BY HARPER & BROTHERS, Xkw Youk. 

S^ IlAUPF.r. & BuoTiiKRS loUl send any of the above ivorks, j)ost- 

age prepaid, to any part of the United States or 

Canada, on receipt of the price. 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 05987 647 2 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket. 



(Dec, 1888, 20,000^ 

BOSTON 



\f 



.ie I" 
.-c rt-nt- 
.i.i'S, who \\'i,' 
including' ^' 
borrower't 
turned at f 
Borro'. 
, defaced, ar- 
" iq'^^lihe deliv- '' 
***'^o clai- 
any notice, to . 



■^B is 




G LIBRARY. 



J obtained only by 
iO the case of fiction 
'' vear) \vithout fine; 
nessena;er after 21 
ae of 2 cents a day, 
to be lent out of the 
^'.nsfev \ tO be re- 

. unwarrantably 
■ n'-.v undue delay 

J failure of 
•ail. 



altered by borrower, 




