715 

1t775x| 
Il889 




The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924084878077 



M 



W 



^ 



W 



#^A--# 




>:^^ 



iSiiS><S>^S>'S; — ® 




reasure to Every gousewife 




A COLLECTION OK 



^Fue and ^Fied ^eijeipt; 




*■*•. 



^m--^ 



Frie@, go Cento. V. 





^__^j .l:^!;^:. 


., 










■ - 






















^ ^ 


■^ 


"^ 


^ 


^ 


^ 


^ 


^ 


^ 


^ 


^ 


^ 


^ 






z=^ 
















_ ; 























CARRUTH i CARRUTH, PRINTeWS, OAKLAND. 



ALAMEDA CO. BRANCH. ESTABLISHED 1821. 



^ GUARDIANS 

flSSURftNGE COMPANY 

op Ii01^t)0]^. 

PAID UP CAPITAL, - - - $ 5,000,000 
CASH ASSETS, - - 21,053,443 



GASH ASSETS HELD IN AMERICA, JAN. Ist, 1888. 

Invested in. U. S. Bonds, - - $1,004,000 

Cash in Bank, - 338,820 



A. L. STONE, Manager, 
1106 Broadway. Oakland, Cal. 

Oakland Bank of Savings Building. 



treasure to ^very iousewife 



A. COLLECTION OF- 



TRIED #^ TRUE RECEIPTS. 



COMPILED BY THE 



$ahu0 oi ^rintti^ ^t^ ^ax:i^ty, 



HflYWflRDS, HLflMEDfl COUNTY, CAL. 



-##^ 



Carruth & Carruth, PrinterS!« Oakland. 
1889. 






PAGE 

Salads 7 

Soups ■ lO, lOI 

Fish 13 

Entries 17, 102 

Sauce for Fish, Game and Meats 25 

Game 28 

Meats 30 

Vegetables ; 32 

Bread, Breakfast and Tea Cakes 38 

Eggs 46 

Icings and Frostings 48 

Cakes 49 

Desserts 62 

Ices and Ice Cream 67 

Puddings 69 

Pies and Tarts 75 

Sweet Sauces .y. 79 

Preserving 80 

Pickles 83 

Drink? 89 

Invalids 94 

French and other Candies 96 

Miscellaneous '■ 97 



i.G^,^' 



-s^~^^' 










mM^4m^ 



^. Mct 



TO OUR RBADBRS. 

We would call the attention of our patrons to the advertisers 
in these pages. Let us show our appreciation by giving them 
our patronage. 



Index to Advertisements. 

Guardian Assurance Co 2d page cover 

New Zealand Insurance Co 3d " " 

W. K. Vanderslice & Co 4th " " 

Justi, Robinson & Co 104 

City of Paris „ 105 

Trappers' Oil 106 

AUen's News Depot 107 

Sherman, Clay & Co 107 

J. A. Folger & Co 108 

Samuel Hanson '. 108 

Thos. C. Armstrong icg 

Pierson & Robertson 109 

Hooper & Jennings no 

Eiben & Nor no 

J. Ruppricht in 

B. Schonwasser & Co in 

J. De La Montanya 112 

C. B. Harmon 113 

Morse's Photograph Gallery 113 

B. S. Taylor & Co 114 

J. Hetherington 115 

Wakel ee's Camelline 115 

T. F. Gray 116 

Trumbull & Beebe 116 

Joyce & Green 117 

W. & J. Sloaue & Co 118 

Stoddart Bros 118 

E. Hook 119 

H. Friedlander 119 

Taft & Pennoyer...*. 120 

J. Welisch 120 

Kast's 121 

R. Reid : 121 

Boericke & Schreck 122 

James A. Collins 122 

Haywards Hotel 123 

Dutcher & Brunner 123 

George H. Tay & Co 124 

Bloomer & Prowse 124 

Syrup of Figs 125 

Chisholra & Farj-ell 125 

R. H. Cool 126 

G. S. Langan 126 

Strobel & Neudeck 127 

Carruth & Carruth 127 



,^^^^^b^^^ 




<5) 



-.-^^f.^^T- 



SALADS. 

"Cold salad is before thee set; 
Fall on and try thy appetite." — Dryden. 

To make a salad dressing, say.s a Spanish proverb, "four 
persons are wanted — a spendthrift for oil — a miser for vinegar 
— a counsellor for salt — and a madame to stir it up. ' ' Never 
cut salad, always break the leaves, always put the hard boiled 
eggs in cold water that they may become solid. 



Cliicken Salad. 

Boil three chickens until tender, salting to taste. When cold 
cut into small pieces, add twice the quantity of celery, cut up 
with a knife, but not chopped, add four hard boiled eggs, sliced 
when cold, mix the ingredients thoroughly. For dressing, put 
into a saucepan one pint best vinegar and butter size of an %gg, 
place on the stove. Beat three eggs with two table-spoons 
each of mustard and sugar, one table-spoon of black pepper, one- 
tea-spoon of salt, beat thoroughly together and pour slowly into 
the vinegar until it thickens. Care must be taken not to cook 
too long, as the eggs will curdle. When cold pour over salad. 
Lemon juice can be added. 



Shrimp Salad. 

Wash and break the leaves of two heads of lettuce, put in 
a salad bowl the largest around the edge, the crisp white ones 
in the centre, on which put the shrimps in a heap; garnish 
with whites of eggs cut in rings. Pour cream salad dressing 
over all. Crab and lobster can be prepared in the same way. 



8 A Treasure to Every Housewife. 

Cream Salad Dressing. 

Boil two eggs ten minutes, throw in cold water. When 
thoroughly cold, mash the yolks in a teacup with one table- 
spoon of made mustard, a little salt and pepper, add the best 
salad oil drop by drop stirring all the time until the consisten- 
cy of thick cream, then pour in slowly vinegar enough to fill 
the cup two-thirds full. Before serving, stir in three table- 
spoons of rich cream. Excellent over any kind oi salads. 

Miss Noyer. 



Salad Dressing. 

One-third tea-spoon salt, one tea-spoon sugar, one tea-spoon 
mustard, add butter the size of an egg (warm), and beat well 
together, add one-half cup vinegar, two-thirds cup of milk, 
steam all in boiling water for several minutes, being careful not 
to curdle. This makes an excellent dressing for lettuce, crabs, 
shrimps or chicken. Always add sliced hard boiled eggs to 
finish the dish. Mrs. Crouch. 



Oyster Salad. 

Take one half-can or same quantity fresh oysters, without 
the liquor, two hard boiled eggs, small crisp leaves of lettuce, 
season with salt, pepper; pour over any nicely made salad 
dressing. The above quantity sufficient for four persons. 

Mrs. Hetherington. 



Lettuce ^vitli Cream. 

One cup thick cream, one tea-spoon salt, one-half tea-spoon 
black pepper, one dessert-spoon sugar, one table-spoon vinegar; 
mix and pour over the lettuce. 



Potato Salad. 

Five potatoes boiled and partially mashed, add four small 
green onions, one-half head of celery, (leaves and root) one 
hard boiled eg^, one table-spoon of butter. Chop all well to- 
gether, mould in a bowl and serve with Mayonnaise sauce. 

Marion Duncan. 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 9 

Cabbage Dressing. 

Half a head of cabbage chopped fine. Dressing: One egg 
beaten separately, three table-spoons of sweet cream, one table- 
spoon of sugar, half a tea-spoon of salt, cup of vinegar, cook 
over hot water until thick, then add a little made mustard and 
set in a cool place. Mrs. Hanson. 



"Water Cresses. 

Wash and clean the cresses carefully, pluck from the stein 
and fill in the salad bowl, cover with a dressing of vinegar, 
salt, pepper and sugar, well stirred in. 



A Treasure to Every Housewife. 



SOUPS. 

To make excellent soup stock, put the meat in cold water 
sufficient to cover. Let simmer very slowly for eight or ten 
hours, removing the scum frequently; a cup of cold water 
thrown in when nearboiling will cause the scum to rise freely. 
Remove the meat and strain the liquor; when cold the fat can 
be ea.sily removed. To make stock for white soup, use the 
knuckle of veal, break the bones and cut in several pieces, 
allow a quart of water for each pound of veal, proceed the 
same as for beef stock. The good quality of all soups depends 
entirely upon the frequent skimming and never to allow fast 
boiling. 



Marrow Balls. 

One-half cup beef marrow, two eggs, two rolled crackers, 
one spoonful grated onion, chopped parsley, pepper and salt. 
Mix the crackers and marrow together, add the other ingredi- 
ents with the eggs well beaten, shape into balls, drop into 
clear soup five minutes before serving. Mrs. Bassett. 



Clear Soup. 

Take six-bits' worth of good soup meat and put in a kettle 
with cold water, the day before using. Keep it boiling very 
slowly but constantly the second day, adding all kinds of 
whole vegetables, salt, pepper and whole mace. When cook- 
ed, strain first through a sieve, then through a cloth; after 
straining let the liquor boil up again. Have in tureen one 
large cup of sherry wine, pour soup in and serve. Or you can 
break into the tureen after the soup has been poured in, one 
egg to each person to be served. Mrs. Bryant. 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. ii 

Mare Soup. 

Cut a large hare into pieces, set it on the stove, with 
lemon, two small onions (or carrots) a bunch of sweet herbs, 
let it stew until quite tender, add one glass of sherry, let boil 
well after the wine has been added, serve with some of the 
best part of the hare in tureen. Use several quarts of water. 



Lobster Soup. 

One large lobster; when cold remove all the meat from the 
shell and chop very fine, take three pints of milk, one pint of 
water, when boiling add two large table-spoons of butter, one 
heaping table-spoon of flour mixed with a little cold milk and 
then the lobster. Boil five minutes, season with pepper and 
salt, a pinch of red pepper. Mrs. Kersey. 



Mock Turtle Soup. 

Put a large knuckle of veal in three quarts of water, boil till 
reduced to two quarts, strain and skim thoroughly, add a cows 
heel, cut into small pieces about an inch .square one pound of 
lean veal, iry a light brown in one quarter pound of butter, add 
one half pint sherry or Madeira wine, the juice of one lemon 
and rind grated, mace, thyme, parsley, salt and cayenne pep- 
per, boil all together two hours, serve up with force meat balls 
and hard-boiled eggs. Mrs. Tempest. 



Green Peas Soup. 

Cut four pounds of veal into small pieces, two quarts of 
green peas, one gallon of water, a little rice flour, green mint, 
chopped parsley, salt and pepper; stew the peas in the water 
until very tender, then strain them and add the meat, boil very 
slowly for one and half hours longer. About twenty minutes 
before serving add the rice flour and other ingredients men- 
tioned, stirring frequently to prevent burning, then add about 
a pint of peas which have been boiled quickly and separately; 
serve verv hot in tureen. Mrs. Hanson. 



12 A Treasure to Every Housewife. 

Onion Soup without meat. 

Slice three large onions and fry brown in butter, put them 
into a stewpan with two quarts of milk, add a good tea-cup of 
grated potato, and boil ten minutes, thicken with two table- 
spoons of flour creamed with a little cold milk. Serve with 
sippets of toast well crisped. Mrs. Kersey. 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 13 



FISH. 



"All fish from sea or shore, 

Freshet or purling brook, or .shell or fin."— Milton. 

Fish are considered in best condition just before spawning 
season and unfit for use when it is just over. The flesh will 
then assume a bluish tinge when boiled, but when in season it 
will boil white and curdy. It is a common error to wash fish 
too much, as thus its flavor is greatly impaired. It can be 
wiped clean with a soft cloth, using scarciely any water. 

Vinegar is as good as ice to keep fi,sh fresh over night. 
Pour a little vinegar on the fi.sh and it will keep perfectly, even 
in warm weather and will not lose its flavor. 

Fish almost more than anything else is improved by slow 
cooking, especially when boiled. If boiled hard, it will fall 
apart and neither taste nor look well. The greatest point in- 
sisted upon by scientific cooks is this of taking plenty of time 
in which to prepare food and the fact that nothing is gained 
by hard boiling. 

Fish when fresh are hard and firm, the gills red and eyes 
full. In boiling, put into cold water to which add a little 
salt and vinegar to keep the flesh firm and allow eight minutes 
to the pound. It is a good plan to wrap in a napkin while 
boiling. 

To fry, dip in beaten eggs, roll in cracker crumbs and fry 
in butter. 

To broil, rub with olive oil and broil over a clear hot fire, 
sea,son when done, squeeze a little lemon juice over it, spread 
with butter and garnish with parsley. 

To bake, stuff" with a plain dres.sing, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, lay some slices of pork over it and bake; baste often. 

The carver should avoid the use of steel knives and if pos- 
sible, serve with a silver fi,sh-slice. 



14 A Treasure to Every Housewife. 



Fish Chowder. 

One fresh cod-fish, quarter of a pound of pork, one quart 
of sliced potatoes. Slice the pork and fry in a deep kettle, 
then add a layer of fish and a layer of potatoes with a sprink- 
ling of pepper, salt and flour; nearly cover with boiling water, 
cook twenty minutes; just before taking up, pour in a quart of 
milk, let boil and serve. Mrs Smith. 



Turbot. 

Two and half pounds offish, boiled or steamed tender and 
picked fine, removing all bones. Sprinkle pepper and salt on 
fish. Grate a small onion and thyme or parsley, add one pint 
of milk, boiling hot, nearly a cup of butter creamed and rubbed 
smooth with one fourth pound of flour; cook until smooth and 
thick, take from the stove, and when cool break into it two 
eggs and stir thoroughly, adding to the fish. Put all into a 
baking dish covered closely with bread crumbs and bake half 
an hour. Mrs. Parsons. 



Fish Cakes. 

These are easily made from cold boiled fish, either fresh or 
salt; remove the bones and every vestige of skin, and cut the 
meat very fine; take two-thirds as much mashed potatoes rub- 
bed to a cream with a little melted butter, (and if wanted very 
nice add a well beaten egg, ) flour your hands and roll the mix- 
ture into small balls or cakes, dip in beaten-egg, then in bread 
crumbs, drop them into boiling lard and fry a light brown. 

Mrs. Hanson. 



Crab a la Creole. 

Chop four green peppers and six small onions very fine 
and cook ten minutes in four table-spoons of butter, salt and 
pepper to taste; add half a can of tomatoes, boil until well 
dissolved, then add half a pint of cream with one table-spoon 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 15 

of flour mixed with it, let it come to a boiling point and stir 
into it two well picked crabs; pour on buttered toast. 

It might be well to add a salt-spoon of carbonate of soda 
before putting in the cream, to insure the success of the dish, as 
tomatoes are extremel}' acid. 



L,ittle Pigs in Blankets. 

Slice some fat salt pork, then roll in each slice one large 
oyster, pinping the pork together with a wooden toothpick; 
fry until both sides are nicely browned and serve without re- 
moving from the pork. Mrs. Parsons. 



Spiced Oysters. 

Put one hundred and fifty oysters with their liquor into a 
porcelain kettle and simmer until the edges curl; skim them 
out and put in an earthern jar; add to the liquor one pint of 
white wine vinegar, a dozen blades of mace, a tea-spoon of 
cloves and the same of allspice; let it come to a boil and pour 
it over the oysters. In cold weather, or kept in a cool place 
they will keep several weeks. Mrs. Kersey. 



Oyster Patties. 

Line pattie pans with rich puff paste; into each pattie place 
a square piece of bread and cover the top with pastry; bake in 
a quick oven. Boil one teacup of milk or cream, thicken 
with one tea-spoon of flour or cracker crumbs, add a small 
piece of butter and season to taste with salt and pepper; pour 
two dozen oysters into the mixture, stir until it boils, remove 
the upper crust of the patties, take out the bread and fill the 
opening with the oyster dressing, replace the crust and serve. 

Mrs. Bassett. 



Scalloped Fish. 

Three pounds of sturgeon, bass or any white fish, boil 
until tender, remove all bones, season with salt, pepper, juice 



1 6 A Treasure to Every Housewife. 



and part of the lemon rind. Take a pint and a half of milk, 
slice two onions in it, let it boil until the onions are quite soft; 
rub to a cream half a pound of butter with two table-spoons of 
flour, add two table-spoons of Worcestershire sauce, the same 
of lemon juice and one table-spoon of salt, rub all smooth to- 
gether, then pour the boiling milk on it through a sieve, stir- 
ring carefully to prevent lumps; return to the stove stirring 
all the time until it boils. Grate a loaf of baker's bread (stale), 
take the platter the fish is to be served from and put first a 
layer of the sauce, then fish, repeating until the dish is filled, 
ending with the sauce, spread bread crumbs smootbly on the 
top with thin slices of lemon placed at inter\'-als upon it, wipe 
the edge of the dish that nothing shal], discolor it; fill a bread 
pan with water, put the platter on two or three muffin rings 
and bake three quarters of an hour or a little more. The dish 
should be a nice brown color. Mrs. Boden. 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 17 



ENTREES. 

"When art and nature join, the effect will be' 

"Some nice ragout, or charming fricassee." — Dr. ll'm. King. 

Turkey Scalloped. 

Chop brown and white meat very fine, season with pepper, 
salt and a little nutmeg. Butter deep dish well, filling it al- 
ternately with first a layer of cracker crumbs moistened with 
hot milk, then one of turkey interspersed with dressing, and 
large pieces of butter on the top of layer, then pour gravy with 
cup of sherry or brandy over it, letting it soak into the whole. 
Take crumbs soaked and seasoned as above, adding two beaten 
eggs and spread over the top with large pieces of butter, cover 
and bake in a moderate oven. Mrs. Bryant. 



Ragout of Turkey. 

Bone the cold turkey and cut into pieces an inch long. 
Put into a saucepan the gravy left from the roast, add a tea- 
spoon of sauce, a piece of butter, salt and pepper; boil this, 
then put in the meat, stew slowly fifteen minutes; stir in a ta- 
ble-spoon of currant or cranberry jelly, thicken slightly with 
flour, then add a glass of .sherry. Boil up, serve in a covered 
dish. Mrs. Hanson. 



Cbicken a la Terrapin. 

Boil one chicken and cut into small squares, removing all 
skin, put into saucepan, pour over half-pint cream and let sim- 
mer a few minutes, add one quarter-pound of butter creamed 
with one table-spoon of flour, season with salt, cayenne pepper 
to taste; cook until thick, add one wine-glass of sherry just 



i8 A Treasure to Every Housewife. 



before taking off the fire. Three hard boiled eggs chopped' fine 
and serve in shells. It is very nice with. celery or salsify 
cooked and cut fine, instead of the sherry and eggs. 



Chicken Croquettes. 

Two cups of chicken cut fine; one small cup of bread pa- 
nada; butter size of an egg; one egg; one table-spoon of chopped 
parsley; lemon juice; salt and pepper. Make the bread panada 
by soaking dry bread a few minutes in cold water, then put it. 
in a napkin and wring out, mix meat, panada, cold butter, egg 
and parsley by rubbing together with a spoon, add a squeeze 
of lemon juice, half a tea-spoon of mixed salt and pepper and a 
little nutmeg. This makes seven or eight pear-shaped cro- 
quettes. Mix flour and cracker meal together in equal parts, 
roll the croquettes in milk, then in meal, repeat this process 
and frj' in boiling lard. _ Mrs. Parsons. 



Mole Colorado. 

Take three red peppers, some pieces of bread browned in 
lard, an onion, a clove of garlic sliced and fried and one toma- 
to, season with sesame seed, anise, clove, pepper, then add the 
Chili peppers, mash all these ingredients thoroughly. When 
ready add a little broth and your chicken (boiled previously) 
cut in pieces. 



Cream Chicken. 

Two spring chickens cut in pieces, put on the fire with wa- 
ter to cover them, season highly with salt, pepper and a little 
butter, cook slowly till tender, add a pint of cream thickened 
with flour; place in a dish some light biscuits or slices of 
bread, pour the chicken overit and serve with plenty of gravy. 

Mrs. Bas.sett. 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 19 

Jellied Chicken. 

Take two young chickens, cut up for frying, put in a large 
saucepan with two small onions, six cloves, a blade of mace, 
a head of celery, bunch of sweet herbs and four or five pep- 
per-corns, simmer slowly until the chickens are tender, take 
up, cut the meat from the bones, remove the skin. Put the 
bones, skin and scraps back' into the kettle, simmer one hour 
longer; soak half a box of gelatine in a little cold water one 
hour, set the chicken away; add the gelatine to that in the 
kettle, heat one minute, strain, season with salt and pepper. 
When cool skim carefully, and set on the fire to melt, pour in 
a square mould half a pint, place on ice to harden, then add a 
layer of the chicken, then one of hard-boiled eggs sliced, 
sprinkle lightly with pepper and salt, add more chicken and 
so on until all are used; pour in the remainder of the jelly 
(cold but thin.) I should cover the chicken. Set in a cold 
place; when wanted turn from the mould and garnish with 
celery. Mrs. Smith. 



Chicken Pie. 

Dress two chickens, cut them in small pieces, put in your 
saucepan one quart of water, piece of butter the size of an egg, 
salt and pepper, then add the chicken, cook until tender, add- 
ing more water if needed, thicken with flour, pour into a 
large dish, adding more butter; cover with a rich lard pie crust 
rolled quite thick. Half a can of French mushrooms added 
is a great improvment. 



Pigeon Pie. 

Put a rim of puff paste on the edge of a deep dish, having 
previously cleaned and cut your birds into four pieces. Place 
in the bottom of your dish a nice beefsteak, then a layer of 
hard-boiled eggs buttered and peppered, then the birds, sea- 
son with pepper and salt, cover with slices of egg, pour in 
some gravy, cover with puff paste, (leaving a hole in the mid- 
dle,) bake well. Mrs. Han.son. 



20 .-i Treasure to Every Housewife. 



L,arded Rabbit. 

Cut the rabbit into joints, soak in salt or vinegar and wa- 
ter for some time, lard with some slices of pork, fry all in a 
hot frying pan until half done; have ready some clear veal 
gravy, put this with the rabbit into a saucepan with pepper, a 
minced onion and a bunch of sweet herbs, cover closely, stew 
until tender; take out the rabbit and put in a hot covered dish; 
strain the gravy, add the juice of lemon, a little butter, and 
thicken with a little flour, pour boiling over the rabbit and 
serve. 



Hot Pot. 

Take a large and deep earthernware jar, cut the meat in 
slices from a loin of mutton, add six kidneys sliced, thirty-six 
oysters, six mushrooms, thirty button onions, a little salt, 
plenty of pepper, pint of strong veal stock, cover with a layer 
of mashed potatoes three inches thick, cover and bake in a 
slow oven three hours; at the last uncover long enough to 
brown the potatoes, serve in the pot in which it has been 
cooked. Mrs. Boden. 



Mock Terrapin. 

Take some calf's liver, fry brown, .season and chop into 
half inch pieces, flour it well, add one tea-spoon of made mus- 
tard, a little cayenne pepper, two hard-boiled eggs chopped 
fine, a good table-ispoon of butter, a little grated lemon peel 
and one cup of water; let it boil two minutes, add some thinly 
sliced lemon and serve. Mrs. Kersey. 



Yeal L,oaf. 

Take the meat from three pounds of veal chops, one pound 
salt pork, chop each fine; one coffee cup pounded dried bread 
crumbs, mix altogether, (the meat to be uncooked) add salt, 
black pepper, a table-spoon of powdered sage, one egg and one 



A Collection of Trtie and Tried Receipts. 



cofFee-cup of cold water, mix well, then put in a square baking 
pan; dip the spoon in cold water and make the top smooth, 
bake one and a half hours, slice when cold. Mrs. Boden. 



Croquettes of Calt's Brains. 

Wash the brains free from membranous matter, beat them 
smooth, season with a little powdered sage, parslej^ chopped 
fine, pepper and salt, add a beaten ^g%, a few bread crumbs 
moistened with cream, mould into balls, roll in beaten ^%g, 
then in bread crumbs and fr}- in butter. Mrs. Hanson. 



Sweet-breads. 

Scald six sweet-breads in salt and water, remove the stringj' 
parts, leave them for a few minutes in cold water, then dry and 
roll in cracker crumbs, fr}- in butter and lard mixed, cut 
into small pieces, pour over them a cup of water, a cup of to- 
matoes, a little minced onion, pinch of salt, large piece of but- 
ter, some parsle}', a little red pepper, a table-spoon of Worces- 
tershire sauce, moisten one table-spoon of flour in two of milk 
or cream. Have moistened toast prepared, pour the sweet- 
breads over the same and serve hot. Mrs. Marsden. 



Sweet-breads. 

Soak well in luke-warm water an hour or more; then throw 
into boiling water for ten minutes, remove all skin and fibrous 
parts, cut into small pieces, roll in beaten egg, then in bread 
crumbs, frj' in sweet lard or butter half an hour. Mrs. Boden. 



Pate of L,iver. 

Boil a calf's liver in salted water until very tender; when 
cold cut it into small pieces, pound it to a paste, adding by de- 
grees melted butter, of cayenne pepper, nutmeg and cloves 
one quarter of a tea-spoon, one table-spoon of Worcester- 



.4 Treasure to Every Housewife. 



shire sauce, one tea-spoon of made mustard, salt to taste. To 
the weight of one liver, take one quarter the weight in butter, 
mould it in a bowl, cut in slices when cold. Mrs. Boden. 



Kidney Saute. 

Take two beef kidneys, chop them into small pieces, put 
in a stew-pan with a small onion sliced, a little salt and water 
to cover them and boil slowly until done, strain off the liquor 
through a colander and set it aside. Pour cold water on the 
kidneys until all the scum and onion have passed and left the 
kidneys perfectly clear; put kidneys and liquor into the stew- 
pan, with half-can of tomatoes (or four or five fresh ripe ones) 
and some pepper, mix a table-spoon of butter and two of flour, 
rub them smooth and thicken the kidneys with it, add Wor- 
cestershire sauce and one glass of claret; serve on toast. 

Miss Noyer. 



To Ste-w L,iver. 

Scald calf's liver, cut in very thin small bits, fry an onion 
in butter until .soft, add the liver, cook fifteen or twenty min- 
utes; add salt, a dessert-,spoon of Worcestershire sauce, juice 
of a lemon, a table-.spoon of flour mixed smooth with water; 
pour on toa.st and serve. Mrs. Boden. 



Spiced Sbeeps' Tongues. 

Six tongues, three tomatoes, one large onion, a half cup 
vinegar, half-cup water, a large piece of butter, pepper, salt 
and allspice to taste. Put the tongues in a saucepan and 
simmer one hour, take out arid skin them, cut in half and re- 
move the throats; put first a layer of onion, then tongue, then 
tomatoes, cover with the other ingredients and simmer two 
hours. Mrs. Smith. 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 23 

Briddoes. 

From any scraps of cold meat cut the quantity required, 
chop them fine, season with pepper, salt and a dredge of flour 
mix well with beef or any good gravy (the consistence that of 
paste), roll or mould with your hand sausage form, (but thicker) 
six or seven inches long. Have ready a beaten egg and some 
fine bread crumbs, roll as you make, first in the egg, then in 
the crumbs. Repeat this twice, finger cars-fully or they will 
crack, cook in a pan of boiling lard, or "butter sufficient to 
cover them; when of a light brown, take out carefully, lay on 
a hair sieve to drain. Dish them in bars crossing with fried 
parsley in the middle; serve with or without gravy, if with, 
serA'C on a mound of mashed potatoes; if without, on a folded 
napkin. Mrs. Tempest. 



Mock Duck. 

Take the tender part of a round-steak, pound well, .season 
on both sides with salt and pepper. Make a turkey dressing, 
spread over the steak, roll and tie carefully; bake one hour in 
a quick oven, basting frequently'. I^. R. B. 



Hamburg Steak Fie. 

Pour over one pound of hamburg steak, two and a half 
cups of water, and boil twenty minutes, add a small onion 
chopped fine, small piece of butter, three table-spoons of Wor- 
cestershire sauce, season with salt and pepper to taste. I^ine 
the sides of a deep dish with a rich crust, pour in the steak, 
cover over with the pastry, make several incisions with knife 
for escaping steam. Bake in a hot, quick oven. 

Mrs. W. B. 



Meat Pudding. 

Make a thick gravy by frying one table-spoon of butter, two 
of flour and one cup of boiling water. Add any meat chopped 
fine, grate two onions into this, pepper and salt to taste, place 



24 A Treasure to Every Housewife. 



this first in the dish. Crust: One cup of flour, one of milk, 
one of grated potatoes, two of bread crumbs, one large table- 
spoon of butter and two eggs not beaten. Melt the butter, 
add the flour stirring all the time till quite hot, take from the 
fire, add the milk, then the eggs one by one, then the breatj 
crumbs and potatoes mixed; spread over the meat, bake one 
hour and serve hot. J. S. H. 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 25 



SAUCES and GRAVIES. 

"White Sauce for Fish. 

In a granite sauce-pan melt a good sized lump of butter; add 
one pint of cream or rich milk, heat thoroughly, add the heart 
of an onion chopped fine, cayenne pepper and salt. Smooth to a 
paste two table-spoons of flour with milk and pour in slowly, 
stirring constantly. Let boil up, and place on back of stove ; 
have ready the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, well rub, and 
beat these into the sauce. Before serving, let it boil up, stir- 
ring all the time. Mrs. Parsons. 



Sauce for Duck or other Game. 

One salt-spoon of salt, one dessert-spoon of fine sugar, one 
table-spoon of lemon juice, one dessert-spoon of Worcestershire 
sauce, two table-spoons of currant jelly, half a tea cup of port 
wine. Rub the jelly together with the other ingredients, add 
wine and heat hot. Mrs. Boden. 



Mayonnaise Sauce. 

Put the yolks of two eggs in a soup plate, add small pinch 
of salt, stir with a wooden fork or spoon until well mixed. 
Pour in olive oil, drop by drop, stirring without interruption 
in the same way describing a circle, holding plate steady; 
when it begins to thicken add a few drops of vinegar and lemon 
juice, continue adding oil and vinegar when it thickens. One- 
third pint of oil makes a good quantity, a little Worcestershire 
sauce is an improvement or a little cayenne pepper; add one 
spoon of water to whiten the sauce. Mrs. Boden. 



26 A Treasure to Every Housewife. 

Horse-radisli Sauce for Boiled Beef. 

One cup of stock, two table-spoons of vinegar, one table- 
spoon of butter, half-cup bread crumbs and enough horse-ra- 
dish to make sauce thick. Make as hot as possible without 
boiling, add horse-radish before serving. Mrs. Kersey. 



Bread Sauce for Poultry. 

Crumb some stale bread very fine and set on the fire in a 
saucepan with enough sweet milk to make a thick sauce and a 
little onion very finely sliced, stir until the sauce is smooth, 
add one table-spoon of butter and season with pepper and salt. 

Mrs. Kersey. 



Hard Sauce. 

One cup of sugar whipped to a cream with two table-spoons 
of butter, one table-spoon of currant jelly well beaten into it, 
and a little ground cinnamon to flavor; set away in a cold 
place to harden. 



Sauce Tartar. 

Chop some capers and shallots very fine, mix them well 
with Mayonnaise when made and you will have a tartar sauce. 



Mustard Sauce for boiled Fish. 

Put one cup of butter in a small saucepan, when very hot 
add two table-spoons of flour, stir until the flour is cooked 
(two minutes), theu add two large table-spoons of French mus- 
tard, one tea-spoon of salt, a little red pepper, one tea-cup of 
boiling water, one dessert-spoon of lemon juice; if it is too 
oily add a little more water. 



Mint Sauce. 

Wash the mint very clean, pick, the leaves from the stalks 
and chop fine, to two table-spoons of the mint add a cup of 
vinegar, and three table-spoons of sugar. 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 27 

Tomato Sauce. 

Stew six good tomatoes with two cloves, a little parsley, 
pepper and salt; press this through a sieve; put a little butter 
in a saucepan over the fire till it bubbles, add a tea-spoon of 
flour, mix and cook well, and the tomato pulp, stirring until 
smooth. Mrs. Parsons. 

Parsley Sauce for Fisli or Cliicken. 

Take a half cup of the water in which the fish or fowl has 
has been boiled, add halt cup milk; when it comes to a boil 
thicken with a table-spoon of flour creamed with a little cold 
milk, stir until smooth, add a little butter and the parsley 
chopped fine; let stand a few minutes before serving. 



28 A Treasure to Every Housewife. 



GAME. 

"Cheerful looks makes every dish a feast, 
And 'tis that crowns a welcome."— AfMMiM^^;'. 

The flavor of wild fowl is best preserved without dressing. 
Put pepper, salt and a piece of butter into each, serve with a 
rich brown gravy. Serve bread sauce with grouse and prairie 
chicken. Currant jelly should be served with ducks and veni- 
son. Garnish the dishes with lemon slices, potato chips or 
water cress. Mrs. Kersey. 



Stuffed Pigeon. 

For six pigeons, make a dressing of one cup of stale bread 
crumbs, a tea-spoon of sweet marjoran, half a tea-spoon of 
ground cloves, half an onion chopped fine, small piece of fat 
pork also chopped fine, salt and pepper to season, one egg 
well beaten, mix the ingredients well and stuff the pigeons. 
Sew them up and let simmer in enough water to cover, until 
tender. Remove from the liquid and brown them with plenty 
of butter in the oven. Serve with gravy made from water in 
in which they were boiled. Thicken with butter and flour 
creamed together. 

To Jug a Hare. 

After cleaning and washing, cut into pieces, season with 
pepper, salt, a little pounded mace, stick into the pieces a few 
cloves, then put it into a jar with an onion, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, a quarter of a pint of water. Tie the jar closely down 
with a bladder and place in a saucepan of water up to the neck. 
Let boil four hours (according to size of the hare) ; when ready 
to serve, boil the gravy, season with salt and pepper, a little 
thickening, a glass of port wine; make the hare hot, but do 
not let boil, as it tends to harden it. Mrs. Olver. 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 29 



Rabbit Savory. 

One rabbit washed and cleaned, cut in pieces and put in a 
dish with a bay-leaf, sliced carrot, salt, pepper and a little 
parsley; cover with claret wine.. Put a weight on meat to 
keep it down, let stand four hours. To cook, cut slices of 
salt pork, fry and remove from pan, fry the rabbit in the fat, 
remove the rabbit, pour in claret, let boil, thicken with flour, 
and pour over rabbit. Mrs. Bassett. 

Wild Duck. 

Select- a pair of mallard or canvas-back ducks, clean and 
cut as for a stew, (the skins can be removed if desired). Let 
stand over night in salted water. Before cooking, dry thor- 
oughly with a cloth, place in a well heated kettle with a small 
piece of fat pork or butter, brown well before covering, season 
with cayenne or Chili pepper, small kernel of garlic, an onion 
and one table-spoon of Worcestershire sauce; add water as it 
boils awaj', keep closely covered and cook two hours; when 
done remove and thicken gravy with flour, pour over and 
serve. Mrs. Smith. 



Snipe or Larks or Quail. 

Clean carefully and singe, put a piece of butter into each 
one, tie a piece of bacon over the breast and bake, basting fre- 
quently. 



Stewed Tenison. 

Cut into small steaks, make a dressing of stale bread 
crumbs, fat pork and an onion chopped fine, pepper, salt and 
thyme, spread on each steak, then roll and tie them, put into 
hot soup stock, stew gently until tender. 



"Venison Steak. 

Broil quickly over a clear fire, when done season and pour 
over it two table-spoons of currant jellj^ with one table-spoon of 
butter; serve very hot. 



30 A Treasure to Every Housewife. 



MEATS. 



Roast Beef ^vltli Yorkshire Pudding. 

Place a piece of beef upon a grating in a dripping pan. 
Three quarters of an hour before serving, mix a batter of one 
pint of new milb, two cups of sifted flour, four eggs (yolks and 
whites beaten separately), add a little salt and pour into the 
pan. Continue to roast the beef, letting the drippings fall 
on the pudding below. When ready to serve, cut the pudding 
into squares and place around the meat, or serve in a separate 
dish. Before putting the batter under the beef, care must be 
taken to drain off the greater part of the fat, leaving only suf- 
ficient to prevent it from sticking to the pan. This is really 
best cooked before an open fire. Mrs. Hanson. 



Roast Mutton. 

Take a leg of mutton, season with pepper and salt ; with 
a sharp knife, make several deep slashes; cover with ripe 
sliced tomatoes, and over this place slices of lemon. Serve 
hot. Mrs. Gordon. 



Boiled Ham. 

Put the ham in plenty of water to soak over night. In 
the morniug wash and rub well with a coarse cloth; put 
to boil in fresh, cold water to cover; let the ham boil very 
slowly, allowing twelve minutes to each pound after it reaches 
boiling point; then remove from the kettle, take off the skin, 
and sift cracker or bread crumbs over it, place on a hot baking 
tin; put in the oven for half or three quarters of an hour; sift 
a few more crumbs over and serve. The above is also very 
nice with champagne soaked into the ham before baking. 

Mrs. Hanson. 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 31 

French Mutton Chops. 

Trim off the superfluous fat of either mutton or lamb 
chops, dip them in beaten ^%%, then fine rolled bread crumbs, 
arrange in baking pan, and bake for twenty minutes; when 
done, remove and put in the pan small quantity of water, one 
half cup of port wine in which one table-spoon of currant 
jelly has been melted. Pour over the chops and serve very 
hot. Mrs. Armstrong. 



Boiled Spiced Ham. 

Soak a ham tweuty-four hours, wash very clean, put 
in the boiler water enough to cover, add three pints brew- 
er's yeast, three heads of garlic separated but not cut, one 
table-spoon each of cayenne, black pepper and mace, a hand- 
ful of thyme, thirty whole cloves, twenty-five cardamon seeds 
crushed, one table-spoon each of coriander seed, salt, and all- 
spice whole, six nutmegs crushed, one large handful olive 
leaves; boil gently for four hours, replenish with boiling water 
as it boils away; when done let the ham remain in the 
water until cold, remove the skin, garnish and bake, or serve 
without baking. Mrs. Boden. 



Beef Roll. 

Have your butcher chop fine two pounds of lean beef with 
one-half pound .of bacon, season with salt and pepper (not 
much salt) a large table-spoon each of minced parsley and 
onion; bind this together with two eggs, make into a roll, 
cover with buttered paper and tie securel}^; cover with a paste 
of flour and water, bake two hours, remove the paper and 
serve hot with brown gravy or tomato sauce. Potato cro- 
quettes can be placed around it. Veal loaf is made by substi- 
tuting three pounds of veal, one-half pound of pork, using 
three eggs and a little milk to bind together. These are all 
nice made into patties, fried with gravy poured over. The 
beef roll can be seasoned with summer savory and thyme. 

Mrs. Parsons. 



32 .4 Treasure to Every Housewife. 



VEGETABLES. 



Time Table. 

Thirty minutes: — Asparagus, corn, macaroni, mushroons, 
peas, boiled potatoes, tomatoes. 

Forty-five minutes: — Young- beets, carrots, parsnips, tur- 
nips, baked potatoes, rice. 

One hour: — Artichokes, new cabbage, string beans, Brus- 
sels sprouts, cauliflower, greens, salsifj' (ojster plant), new 
onions, winter squash. 

Two hours: — Winter cabbage, carrots, parsnips, turnips, 
and onions. 

Three to five hours: — Old beets. 

Five to eight hours: — Dried beans, dried peas, hominy, etc. 

Put all green vegetables in slightly salted boiling water 
and let them cook gently until tender. Cook dried vegetables, 
such as beans, peas etc., in cold water; after it reaches boiling 
point, let them simmer gently until done. Dried vegetables, 
should be well washed in cold water before cooking; most 
green vegetables are improved by being treated in the same 
way. 



Potato Croquettes. 

Take four large, mealy potatoes (cold) mash them fine with 
two table-spoons of butter, a little pepper, salt, one table- 
spoon of milk or cream and the yolk of one egg well-beaten, 
rub together until perfectly smooth, make into small balls, 
dip them into ^%%, then into finest sifted bread crumbs; fry in 
boiling lard. Mrs. Kersey. 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 33 

Potato au Gratin. 

Cut fine some cold, boiled potatoes; cook together in a stew 
pan a large spoon of butter, and one of flour; add slowly one 
pint heated cream, stirring smooth and season, stir in the po- 
tatoes; when thoroughly mixed, pour into a baking dish, put 
small piece of butter on top and brown in the oven. 

Mrs. Parsons. 



Cold Potatoes for Breakfast. No. i. 

Have the frying-pan very hot, put in a piece of butter 
(size of an egg), slice the 'potatoes thin, put in, allow them 
to brown before stirring; serve hot, season with pepper and 
salt. Mrs. Hibbard. 

No «. 

Cut your cold potatoes into small pieces, put them into a 
stew-pan with a piece of butter, pepper and salt, cup of 
cream (or rich milk), and a dusting of flour, heat, stir until 
it thickens sufficiently. Serve hot. Mrs. Hibbard. 



Potatoes with Cream. 

Peel and slice potatoes, put in a deep baking-pan, add salt, 
pepper and a large cup of cream; bake slowly until done. 



Baked Tomatoes on Toast. 

Halve five large tomatoes, by cutting them across, place 
in a pan, skin down, season with salt and pepper, and a small 
piece of butter on each, bake fifteen or twenty minutes; serve 
on buttered toast. ' Mrs. Kersey. 



Scalloped Tomatoes. 

Butter an earthen baking-dish, cover the bottom with a 
layer of fresh tomatoes, peeled and sliced; sprinkle with a 
little chopped onion, then cover with a layer of bread crumbs, 
a little butter, pepper and salt; repeat until the dish is full, 
ending with bread crumbs. Bake one hour in pretty hot oven. 



34 A Treasure to Every Housewife. 



Baked Sweet Potatoes. 

Boil six good sweet potatoes; when done, peel them and 
mash through a sieve, add half a cup of cream heated, salt and 
pepper to season well and two eggs well beaten; beat all to- 
gether until very light, brown and serve. 



Cliili Relleuve. 

Roast green bell peppers until the skin will peel off; make 
an incision, remove the seeds, and fill with cheese or minced 
meat, well seasoned; beat the whites of three or four eggs, add 
the yolks and beat again, dip the peppers into the e.gg, fry 
in very hot lard. Make a sauce of tomatoes, chopped onions, 
cloves, peppers, cinnamon and vinegar to taste; fry these and 
add a little broth or water, thicken with fine bread crumbs. 
When this is cooked, put in the peppers, let them simmer a 
few minutes to season it well. 



Succotasli. 

Cook shell beans and green corn until tender, cut the corn 
from the cob, mix one-third beans and two-thirds corn, add 
butter, pepper, salt and milk or cream if desired; stir over the 
fire until hot. Mrs. Smith. 



Mushrooms a la Creme. 

Peel the mushrooms, remove stems and throw them in cold 
water. After washing them thoroughly, place in a stew-pan 
with a little water and salt, boil until quite tender, then add a 
table-spoon of thick cream, a tea-spoon of butter and thicken 
with a little flour. 



Test — A silver spoon (or coin) boiled with the mushrooms, 
will, if discolored, when taken out, prove them to be poison- 
ous and unfit for use. 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 35 

Baked Beans. 

Put one quart of beans in cold water over night; pour over 
them fresh cold water and parboil for a short time, then add 
three-fourths pound of pork, one table-spoon white sugar, a 
little pepper, placing the pork over the beans that it may be- 
come crisp; bake carefully nearly all day, adding hot water to 
prevent their 'drying, and do not cover the dish. 



Boiled Macaroni. 

Take two dozen of macaroni, break in pieces, wash in 
cold water; put into hot water, boil half an hour, drain and 
salt it. Have ready a cup of stewed tomatoes seasoned; butter 
a baking-dish, put in a layer of grated cheese, then the maca- 
roni; pour in the stewed tomatoes, adding the macaroni, grated 
cheese, small pieces of butter and pepper. Cook in a hot oven 
and brown nicely. Mrs. Bassett. 



Egg Plant. 

Peel and cut in thin slices, soak two hours in salt and 
water, dip in beaten egg, then into bread crumbs or a batter 
of flour thinned with milk and one tea-spoon of yeast powder; 
fry in hot pork fat. 



Stewed Oyster Plant. 

Scrape the roots, throw them into cold water with a little 
vinegar in it (or they will be discolored), cut them into thick, 
round slices, cook until tender, having added a handful of 
Eastern codfish picked fine, tea-spoon of butter, a little pepper 
and thicken with flour moistened with milk; add one cup of 
milk with the fish. Serve hot. Mrs. Bassett. 



Cauliflower, Bechamel Sauce. 

Boil the cauliflower till done to your taste, drain imme- 
diately and place them on a dish, the top upwards. While 
boiling, make a bechamel sauce and pour it over the cauli- 



36 A Treasure to Every Housewife. 

flower as soon as dished and serve as warm as possible. Cau- 
liflower, like asparagus, have a bitter taste when not over 
cooked. 

Sauce: — Mix cold and roll together in a~tin sauce-pan, two 
ounces of butter and a table-spoon of flour, then add a pint of 
milk and set over the fire; stir continually and when rather 
thick take off; beat the yolk of an egg in a cup with a table- 
spoon of water, turn it into the sauce and mix well again; salt 
and pepper to taste and it is ready for use. Mrs. Parsons. 



Spinach. 

Spinach should be well picked and washed, put in a sauce- 
pan with sufficient water to cover well the bottom, boil iintil ten- 
der (about twenty minutes), turn into a colander, let it drain, 
pressing a little to make as dry as possible; chop fine, return 
to the sauce-pan with a generous piece of butter; pepper and 
salt; stir well when quite hot; dish and garnish with sliced 
hard-boiled eggs. Remove the stems when picking over the 
stems. 



French Beans. 

String and cut them into thin slices; scatter a little salt 
over them; put into boiling water, adding a little salt, but do 
not cover quite closely; when done drain quickly and serve 
with drawn butter separately. 



Boston Baked Beans. 

If ever you should wish, 
For breakfast or dinner a tempting dish 
Of the beans so famous in Boston town, 
You must heed the rules I here lay down : 
When the sun has set in golden light. 
And around you fall the shades of night, 
A large deep dish you first prepare; 
A quart of beans select with care, 
And pick them over until you find, 
Neither speck nor mote is left behind. 
A lot of cold water on them pour. 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 2n 

Till every bean is covered o'er, 
And they seem lo your poetic eye, 
Like pearls in the depth of the sea to lie; 
Here if you please you may let them stay, 
Till just after breakfast the very next day, 
When a parboiling process must be gone through — 
I mean for the beans and not for you; 
Then in the pantry there still should be 
The bean-pot so famous in history. 
With all due deference bring it out, 
And if there's a skimmer lying about. 
Skim half of the beans from the boiling pan 
Into the bean-pot as fast as you can. 
Then turn to Biddy and calmly tell her 
To take a huge knife and go to the cellar, 
For you must have, like Shylock of old, 
"A pound of flesh " e're your beans grow cold, 
But very unlike that ancient Jew, 
Nothing but pork, will do for you; 
Then tell once more your maiden fair, 
In the choice of the piece to take great care. 
For a streak of fat and a streak of lean 
Will give the right flavor to every liean. 
This you must wash, and rinse and score. 
Put in the pot and round it pour 
The rest, till the view presented, seems 
I/ike an island of pork in an ocean of beans. 
A spoonful of sugar of the brownest kind. 
Spread evenly over the scored pork rind; 
Pour on boiling hot water, enough to cover 
The top of the beans completely over; 
Put into the oven and bake till done. 
And the triumph of Yankee cookery's won. 



38 A Treasure to Every Housewife. 



Bread, Breakfast and Tea 

Cakes. 

"If I by chance succeed 
In what I write, and that's a chance indeed, 
Know I am not so stupid, or so hard, 
Not to feel praise or fame's deserved reward." 

Minor Points in Bread Making. 

Grease the bread bowl with a little lard or butter to pre- 
vent the dough from sticking. 

Too much salt injures the flavor of bread. A tea-spoon to 
every quart of milk is the proper quantity when compressed 
yeast is used. 

If bread and rolls are brushed lightlj' with milk immediately 
before they are put in, and after they are taken from the oven, 
the color and flavor of the crust will be very much improved. 

It has been satisfactorily demonstrated that a pan in which 
bread will bake most perfectly, should be of Russia, about 
four inches wide, four inches deep, and adapted to the capacity 
of the oven in length. 

The heat of the oven should not be greatest when the 
bread is put to bake; it should slightly increase in intensity 
for about ten minutes, and after remaining at a steady temper- 
ature for that length of time, should gradually decrease until 
the baking is finished. A loaf, the size of one of the pans 
recommended, should bake in half an hour, but it is bet- 
ter to have it in the oven a little too long than not long 
enough. A loaf of bread sufliciently done, will not burn 
the hand when lifted from the baking pan; if it does, there i.s 
more hot steam within, than is consistent with thorough bak- 
ing, and the loaf should be replaced instantly in the oven. 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 39 

Bread, as soon as baked, should be taken from the pans and 
placed uncovered in such a position, as will expose the great- 
est possible amount of surface to the air. This will prevent 
the crust from becoming sodden, and permit the rapid escape 
of the carbonic acid gas evolved in the process of fermentation. 



Pioneer Yeast. 

Boil, say on Monday morning, two ounces of the best hops, 
in four quarts of water, half an hour. Strain it, and let the 
liquor cool down to new milk warmth; then put in a small 
handful of salt and half a pound of sugar. Mix one pound of 
flour until smooth with some of the liquor, and then stir well 
together. On Wednesday add three pounds of boiled and 
mashed potatoes, let it stand until Thursday, then strain it 
and put it into bottles; shake the bottle well before using. It 
must be stirred frequently while making and kept near the 
fire. Mrs. Boden. 



Potato Yeast. No. i. 

Take one large, or two medium sized potatoes, boil and 
mash them fine, add one table-spoon each of salt and sugar, 
then one small cup of water and last of all half a cup of yeast. 
Make the yeast every time you bake, using half and reserving 
the other half to start the yeast anew. Mrs. Bassett. 



Potato Yeast. Xo. 2. 

Boil three or four potatoes, mash fine, adding two and a 
half pints of warm water and a table-spoon of salt; meanwhile 
dissolve a cake of Warner's compressed yeast in half a cup of 
luke-warni water, add it to the potato water, then stir in 
enough sifted flour to make a thin batter, beating until smooth 
and light; put this in a warm place to rise over night and in 
the morning stir in enough flour to be able to knead it; then 
put it back in the bowl and keep in a warm place until quite 
light, which should be in about three hours; shape into loaves, 
place in bread tins, let it rise again until light and bake. 

Mrs. Parsons. 



40 A Treasure to Every Housewife . 



Hop Yeast. 

Take three or four fresh boiled potatoes and two large 
spoonfuls of flour; put a table-spoon of hops in a quart of boil- 
ing water and let boil a few 'minutes, then pour over the pota- 
toes and flour, stirring well to work out the lumps; when about 
as warm as new milk, add a table-spoou of salt, two of sugar 
and a cup of yeast; keep at this temperature until it rises, 
which should be within one or two hours. 

Mrs. L. M. Smith. 



Vienna Bread. 

To a pint of new, milk, add a pint of water and scald to- 
gether. When cooled to the warmth of new milk, add a com- 
pressed yeast cake dissolved in warm water, a tea-spoon of salt, 
and flour sufficient to make a thin batter. Stir well and let 
stand for an hour to rise, then work in flour until the dough is 
the proper consistency for bread. When very light, which will 
be in about three hours, divide and mould into loaves and set 
to ri.se in the bread-pans; when light again, bake as directed at 
the beginning of this chapter. 



Parker Mouse Rolls. 

Scald a little more than a pint of milk and let it stand 
until cool. Sift two quarts of flour twice and rub into it a 
a table-spoon of lard. Add to the milk one table-spoon of 
sugar and a little salt. Make a hole in the flour and mix in 
the milk, also half a cup of yeast, sift a little flour over the • 
hole and let it rise. When light, knead it well and let it rise 
again; then roll out, cut with the cover of a pint pail and fold 
over like a turnover. When light again, bake twenty minutes. 

Mrs. Boden. 



Pulled Bread. 

Remove a loaf from the oven when about two-thirds done, 
pull into pieces a little larger than an egg, return to the oven 
and bake a light brown. Mrs. Kersey. 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 41 



Cinnamon Roll. 

When baking bread, take apint of the dough, roll it out half 
an inch thick, spread it over with pieces of butter, then a layer 
of sugar, sprinkle with ground cinnamon, roll it up, set to rise 
and bake. Mrs. M. 



£gg; Rusk. 

Melt three-fourths of a pint of butter, one pint of new milk, 
a tea-spoon of salt, a tea-cup of yeast, flour enough to make a 
batter. Set this sponge to rise. When light, beat three eggs 
and stir in the sponge, with one pint of white sugar. Flavor 
with nutmeg or cinnamon, work together with flour sufficient 
to make a soft dough. Set to rise again. When light, make 
out with the hand, or cut into shape with a cutter and place in 
pans. Set to rise like rolls. When light, bake in a slow oven; 
while baking rub over the tops with sugar and cream. Be sure 
and make out as possible. 



Coffee Rolls. 

Twelve cups of flour, three of warm milk, one of white 
sugar, one of yeast, one-half cup of butter or lard, three eggs, 
one grated nutmeg. Mix with the milk and let rise over 
night. If well risen in the morning, knead and set in a cool 
place until three in the afternoon; then shape into long rolls 
and let them rise one and a half hours ; bake half an hour in a 
moderate oven. When done, glaze with a little milk and brown 
sugar and set back in the oven two minutes. Mrs. Smith. 



Baking-powder Biscuits. 

Sift together two or three times, one quart of flour with two 
heaping tea-spoons of baking-powder and a small tea-spoon of 
salt. Mix in a piece of lard or butter the size of a small egg, as 
slowly as possible. Now pour in enough water to make the 
dough consistent enough to roll out, mixing lightly with the 
ends of the fingers. The quicker it is rolled out, cut and 
baked, the better will be the biscuits. Mrs. Parsons. 



42 A Treasure to Every Housewife. 



Beat Biscuit. Old Kentuclty. 

Two quarts flour, cue-half pint lard, one pint cold water. 
one table-spoon of salt; mix well. Knead and beat till smooth 
and light. Cut very thin, prick with a fork; bake rather slow. 

Mrs. Me. D. 



Brown Bread. 

One pint of sweet milk, two cups of Indian meal, one cup of 
rye or graham flour, one cup of flour, half a cup of molasses, 
one tea-spoon of soda. Steam four hours. Mrs. Thompson. 



Sally trum. 

One table-spoon of sugar, two of shortening, one ^'g^, one 
cup of milk, two heaping tea-spoons of baking-powder, flour 
enough to make a soft batter. Stir well and bake in a hot oven 
in gem pans. Mrs. Van Dyke. , 



Drop Biscuit. 

One quart of flour, two tea-spoons baking-powder, one 
dessert-spoon fine sugar, a little salt, one table-spoon butter 
melted, one egg, one and a half cups of milk, or to make a bat- 
ter about like cake dough. Bake in hot gem pans, in a quick 
oven, fifteen minutes. Marian Duncan. 



Bread Cakes. 

Pour over a pint of bread crumbs the same measure of 
boiling water and add a small piece of butter; cover closely 
and let it stand over night; in the morning mash to a smootli 
paste, beat thoroughly with it the yolks of two eggs, then add 
half pint of cold milk, beating meanwhile and half a pint of 
flour with which a tea-spoon of baking-powder has been sifted; 
lastly, add the beaten whites of two eggs. These cakes re- 
quire longer baking than batter pancakes and are tender and 
easily torn, and in serving should be spread on the plate. 

Mrs. Owen. ' 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 43 



Graliain Bread — Xo. r. 

One pint of sweet milk, two-thirds of a cup of molasses, a 
small tea-spoon of salt and one of soda dissolved in a little hot 
water; add enough graham flour to thicken it so that it will 
drop easity from a spoon. Mrs. Parsons. 



Gratiam Bread — No. 2. 

One-third graham flour, two-thirds sifted white flour, half 
cup molasses, with a pinch of soda the size of a pea, salt and 
one-third of a yeast cake; stir in enough warm water to make 
a moderately stifi" mixture; allow it to get very light, after 
dropping into the pans from the spoon, when it will be ready 
for baking. Mrs. C. P. Van Dyke. 



Stamford Tea Cakes. 

Three quarter pound of flour, four ounces butter to be rub- 
bed with the flour, half pint new milk warmed, two eggs, a 
quarter pound of powdered sugar and a table-spoon of yeast. 
Mix and let it stand to rise, put in buttered hoops, not more 
than half full, put at once into the oven and bake twenty min- 
utes. Mrs. Wood. 
Sally L,uni. 

One quart flour, half tea-spoon salt, three tea-spoons bak- 
ing-powder, half-cup of butter, four beaten eggs, one pint of 
sweet milk; pour the batter in pate-pans or round cake tins and 
bake in a quick oven; serve hot. Mrs. J. C. Hibbard. 



Rice Muffins. 

One quart of flour, one cup of cold rice, two cups of sweet 
milk, two eggs, three tea-spoons of baking-powder, half a 
tea-spoon of salt, butter the size of an egg; mix the dry ingre- 
dients with the flour. Melt the butter with half a cup of hot 
water, beat the eggs light and add the milk and butter; stir it 
into the flour and beat thoroughly. Pour into warm buttered 
gem tins and bake in a quick oven. Mrs. Parsons. 



44 '-i Treasure to Every Housewife. 



Brown Bread. 

One cup of sweet milk, one cup of sour or butter-milk, one 
cup corn meal, one cup graham or rye flour, one cup molasses, 
one tea-spoon of soda and one of salt; steam in a tin mould, 
three hours. 



Southern Grabam Gems. 

Nearly one quart of graham flour, two table-spoons of 
brown sugar, one table-spoon of butter, half a tea-spoon of 
salt, one pint of sweet milk, two tea-spoons of baking-powder, , 
one egg and last of all, half a tea-spoon of soda; mix as di- 
rected above and drop the batter in spoonfuls as you would 
pancakes in a buttered pan, and bake in a hot oven to a nice 
brown. Spread them on the bottom when eating. 

Mrs. Parsons. 



Rice Cakes. 

One cup of boiled rice, one &%%, half a cup of sweet milk, 
one tea-spoon of baking-powder, two large spoons of flour. 
Beat the egg and rice together, then the milk, salt and flour 
and baking-powder; fry in a frying-pan with plenty of butter 
or lard. Sprinkle with sugar if liked. Mrs. Bassett. 



Waffles. 

One pint of flour, two eggs, one even tea-spoon of baking- 
powder, a little salt, butter the size of a walnut and about one 
and a quarter cups of milk; bake in waffte irons. 

Mrs. Parsons. 



Pop Overs. 

Two cups of flour, two cups of milk, two eggs, one tea- 
spoon of salt. Bake in a hot oven. • Miss Bolton. 



Breakfast Muffins. 

Two cups of flour, one cup of milk, two well beaten eggs, 
two tea-spoons of yeast powder, a little salt. Bake in gem 
pans. Mrs. Boden. 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 45 



Corn Rread. 

• One cup of sour milk, one egg, butter the size of an egg, 
one cup of Indian meal, one cup of flour, half a cup of sugar, 
one tea-spoon of soda dissolved in hot water, a pinch of salt. 
Bake in a shallow tin pan and cut in squares. Mrs, Parsons. 



Oatmeal Cookies. 

Three cups of oatmeal, one and a half cups of flour, one 
cup of sugar, one cup of butter, one tea-spoon of soda in boil- 
ing water sufficient to wet the whole mixture. 

Mrs. DuBois. 



46 A Treasure to Every Housewife. 



EGGS. 



Omelette. 

Soak one tea-cup of bread crumbs in one cup of sweet 
milk over night. Beat the yolks and whites of three eggs 
separately, mix yolks with bread and milk, stir in whites, sea- 
son with salt, fry brown. Makes a dish for six persons. 

Mrs. Bassett. 



Scrambled £ggs. 

To six well-beaten eggs, add four table-spoons of milk, sea- 
son with salt and pepper; put a good sized piece of butter 
into a frying pan; when melted, pour in the eggs, stirring con- 
stantly for three or four minutes. Turn into a hot dish, wither 
without toast. 



Pickled Eggs. 

Boil and grate three good sized beets, add one pint of vine- 
gar, a few cloves, boil ten minutes. Twelve hard-boiled eggs 
thrown into cold water for ten minutes, remove the shells and 
put the eggs in the hot vinegar for twenty-four hours. Cut in 
halves; they make a garnish for cold meats. Mrs. Brown. 



Frencli Eggs. 

Boil six eggs fifteen minutes; when cold, halve crosswise; 
cut the yolks fine, add a half tea-spoon of mustard, one quar- 
ter tea-spoon of sugar, a little salt, sweet oil and vinegar, mix 
thoroughly and fill the hollow whites. Serve with cold meat. 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 47 



Omelette Soufflee. 

Separate the yolks and whites of six eggs, beat the yolks, 
add a tea-cup of rich milk or cream, beat the whites solid, add- 
ing a tea-spoon of salt while beating. Put into a very hot fry- 
ing pan one large table-spoon of butter; when melted, pour in 
the eggs, well beaten together; cook five minutes in a hot oven. 

Mrs. Kersey. 



Shirred Eggs. 

As each egg is broken, slip into a buttered oval side dish, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, cook in a hot oven for five min- 
utes; serve in same dish. 



Cheese and Egg Toast. 

Put a tea-cup of cheese cut in small pieces into one-half 
pint of rich milk, let boil until cheese is melted; have two eggs 
well beaten, season milk with salt, pepper and butter to taste, 
turn in the eggs andstir rapidly for a few minutes, remove from 
the fire, spread over some hot ' slices of toasted bread, cut into 
halves and quarters; serve in a hot dish. Mrs. H. 



Mushrooms with Eggs. 

Break into a stew-pan three eggs, add one ounce butter, 
one salt-spoon salt, a little black pepper, add two table-spoons 
small mushrooms, previously stewed, stir together and place 
over the fire continuing to stir until all is lightly set; make a 
dish of hot buttered toast, heap the mushrooms and eggs over 
it and serve hot. Mrs. H. 



Curried Eggs. 

Add one table-spoon curry-powder to two sliced onions, fry 
in butter, let stew in one pint broth till quite tender, add one 
cup milk, thickened with arrowroot, simmer a few minutes, 
add eight boiled eggs cut in slices, then make thoroughly hot, 
but do not let boil. 



48 A Treasure to Every Housewife . 



ICINGS and FROSTING. 



An icing which will not break when cut, can be made as 
follows: Boil for several minutes, one cup of powdered sugar 
with water sufficient to moisten it. Have ready the beaten 
white of one egg, to which add the sugar very slowly, beating 
all the time; spread on cake before it cools. Miss Bolton. 



Boiled Frosting. 

One cup sugar and four table-spoons of hot water boiled 
together until it threads from the spoon. Pour slowly over 
the beaten white of one &gg. Mrs. Parsons. 



Chocolate Cream Frosting. 

White of one egg beaten stiff, add equal quantity of cold 
water and confectioner's sugar until thick enough to spread; 
flavor with vanilla; melt half a cube of chocolate, add one tea- 
spoon of boiling water. Pour over the frosting on the cake. 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 49 



CAKES. 



Wedding Cake. 

Wash and work to a cream one and one-half pounds of butter 
with one and one-half pounds of brown sugar, add fourteen eggs, 
(two at a time), a wine glass of brandy, a coffee cup of grated 
chocolate and one of liquid coffee, a tea-spoon each of mace, 
nutmeg, cinnamon, allspice and one-half tea-spoon of cloves. 
Stir in one and one-half pounds offlouraslightly as possible; add 
two pounds of currants, three pounds of seeded raisins, (well 
floured), one pound each mixed citron, orange peel (candied), also 
lemon peel cut very thin, one pound of dried black cherries chop- 
ped fine; mix the ingredients well together; bake in a moder- 
ate oven for four hours. Mrs. Boden. 



Fruit Cake. 

Two cups sugar, one of butter, one of sour milk, four of 
flour, five eggs, one pound of raisins, one half pound of cit- 
ron, one pound currants, spices, and one wine glass of brandy. 

Mrs. Boden. 



, White Fruit Cake. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, two and a half of flour, 
the whites of seven eggs, two table-spoons of baking-powder, 
one pound each of raisins, figs, dates, and blanched almonds, 
one quarter pound of citron all well chopped and sifted through 
with flour; after mixing the cake add the fruit and bake thor- 
oughly in a moderate oven. Mrs. Smith. 



50 A Treasure to Every Housewife. 

Bride's Cake. 

The whites of sixteen eggs, six cups of crushed or pow- 
dered sugar, two cups butter, two cups sweet milk, ten cups of 
flour, four tea-spoons of cream tartar, two tea-spoons of soda, 
four tea-spoons of lemon flavoring. Rub the butter and sug- 
ar to a cream, add milk by degrees, stirring constantly until 
like a cream; moisten the soda with milk, stir in. Put the 
cream tartar in the flour, sift it twice, then by light handfuls 
add to the mixture, beating hard all the time; lastly add the 
well-beaten whites of the eggs; bake in a large milk pan slowly, 
in a moderate oven. Let remain in pan until cold. 

Mrs. Bassett. 



Pound Cake. 

Four even cups of flour, two tea-spoons of yeast powder 
sifted with flour, three cups of powdered sugar, one scant cup 
of butter; butter and sugar worked to a cream with the hand, 
one-half cup sweet milk, eight eggs beaten separately, one 
wine glass of brandy. • Oakland. 

Almond Cake. 

Two cups sugar, half-cup butter, the whites of three eggs, 
two tea-spoons of cream tartar in three cups of flour, one tea- 
spoon of soda in one cup of milk, ^ pinch of salt, one tea- 
spoon of extract bitter almonds. Ice the top and sides of cake 
putting blanched almonds in icing. 



Composition Cake. 

Three cups sugar, two cups butter, five eggs; dissolve one 
tea-spoon soda in one cup sour milk; rub butter* and sugar to- 
gether, add eggs well beaten, then two cups flour, mix one 
wine glass of brandy with milk, add two more cups flour, then 
one table-spoon mixed spices, one pound seeded aud floured 
raisins, one-half pound currants, one quarter pound thinly 
sliged citron; bake in a moderate oven two or three hours. 

Mrs. Palen. 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 51 



Tinlocli Cake. 

One-half pound butter, three-quarters pound powdered sug- 
ar, one and one-half pounds flour, one pound currants, two 
pounds seedless raisins, one-half pound each lemon and 
orange-peel (candied), ten eggs, four ounces blanched almonds, 
small quantity mixed spices, half a nutmeg, a few drops es- 
sence of lemon. Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add eggs 
one at a time until all are used, then stir in flour, next spices, 
nutmeg and almonds halved, well mix, add fruit and peel and 
mix all these ingredients thoroughly together, work in essence 
of lemon, turn into a square baking tin and bake in a moderate 
oven two hours or till quite firm. Mrs. B. 



^Vhite Mountain Cake. 

Cream until very light, one cup butter, add, slowly stirring, 
two cups sugar; when the mixture is light, add one cup milk 
in which one tea-spoon of soda has been dissolved, mix well, 
and stir in the yolks of five eggs. Rub thoroughly into four 
and one-half cups of flour, two tea-spoons of cream tartar and 
stir into the above ingredients, alternating with the beaten 
whites of three eggs, reserving the other two for the icing; 
flavor with either vanilla or lemon. Mrs. H. 



Corn starch Cake. 

Cream until white and very light one cup butter with two 
cups sugar, stir gently one cup corn starch into one cup rich 
milk, add two cups of flour with three tea-spoons j^east pow- 
der well worked through it, one tea-spoon lemon, and the 
whites only of seven eggs beaten to a froth, lightly stirred in. 

Mrs. H. 



Madeira Cake. 

Four eggs well beaten, add gradually six ounces rolled 
loaf sugar; mix with eight ounces flour, one tea-spoon baking- 
powder, four ounces butter just creamed; add to other ingredi- 
ents, mix well and bake. Mrs. Barwell. 



52 A Treasure to Every Housnvi/c. 



Rice Cake. 

Six ounces ground rice, one pound rolled and sifted loaf 
sugar, four ounces flour, nine eggs, lemon flavor to taste; beat 
the eggs separatelj^ for one quarter of an hour, mix nearh- all 
the yolks to whites, beating remaining yolks continually, add 
the sugar to eggs, then rice and flour, lemon flavor and rest of 
yolks of eggs last; bake in a moderate oven. Mrs. Harvey. 



LrUnclieoii Cake. 

One and one quarter pounds butter, six ounces sugar, four 
eggs, a little candied lemon or citron peel, a few carraway seeds, 
one-half pint thick cream, one pound patent flour; cream the 
butter, add sugar and eggs beaten separately, mix in well all 
the other ingredients and bake in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. Hanson. 



A Rich Cake. 

One-half pound sugar, three-quarters of a pound butter 
beaten until white and light, beat separately whites and yolks 
of seven eggs, stir yolks and one wine glass of brandy in with 
butter and sugar; add whites of eggs, half a grated nutmeg, 
one pound and a half of flour in which two tea-spoons of yeast 
powder has been mixed, then one pound seeded and slightly 
chopped raisins; lastly, stir in one-half pint sweet rich cream; 
bake in square tins, lined all through with paper. 

Mrs, Boden. 



Frencli Cake. 

One cup powdered sugar, one-half cup of butter beaten to 
a cream; sift one tea-spoon baking-powder through two and 
one-half cups flour, one-half cup milk, four eggs, flavor with 
vanilla; add the milk and part of the flour to the beaten cream, 
then the beaten yolks of eggs, the remainder of flour, whip 
the whites of eggs, stir in through the mixture; bake in square 
tins. Mrs. Boden. 



A Colledio7i of True and Tried Receipts. 53 



Lemon Cake. 

One pound rolled and sifted loaf sugar, one-half pound pat- 
ent flour, ten yolks and five whites of eggs beaten separately 
for one-half hour each; the rind of one lemon grated and a 
small table-spoon of juice of lemon added after the ingredients 
are well mixed; bake in a moderate oven one and one-half 
hours. Mrs. Burnette. 



Ammonia Cake. 

One pound flour, one-quarter pound butter, one-half pint 
cream, one-half pound currants, six ounces sugar, some can- 
did lemon peel, stripped very fine, a lump of ammonia the 
size of a large walnut; cream butter and sugar together, stir 
in the flour and other ingredients, add ammonia last mixed 
with a little cream, pour into baking tins, place immediately 
in the oven to bake. Mrs. Tempest. 



l^alnut Cake. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter worked to a 
cream; one-half cup of milk, two shallow cups of flour mixed 
with two shallow tea-spoons of baking-powder; whites of three 
eggs beaten stiff and added last. Chop the half of twenty-five 
cents worth of English walnuts very fine, stir in the cake- 
Bake in shallow pans, cut in squares. The frosting is made by 
stirring into the white of an egg sugar enough to make stifi"; 
spread over cake and put the half of walnuts on top. 

Mrs. Hill. ■ 



Delicate Cake. 

Two cups of fine powdered sugar, one half cup of butter, 
three cups of finely sifted flour; three quarters of a cup of 
sweet milk, the whites of six eggs beaten very lightly, one 
even tea-spoon of baking-powder. Rub butter and sugar to 
a cream, add half the flour (that has the yeast powder mixed 
with -it), then the milk, then the rest of the flour and lastly 
the eggs. Bake in square tins. Mrs. Boden. 



54 ^ Treasure to Every Housewife. 



CoflFee Cake. 

Two cups brown sugar, one of butter, one of molasses, one 
of strong coffee (as prepared for the table), four eggs, one tea- 
spoon of saleratus, two of cinnamon, two of cloves, one of 
grated nutmeg, one pound of raisins, one of currants and four 
cups of flour- Mrs. Gra_v. 



Angel Cake. 

Three gills fine granulated sugar, sifted three times, two 
gills sifted flour (three times); add one tea-spoon of cream 
tartar, and sift three times again; whites of eleven eggs beaten 
very lightly; mix all together lightly, flavor to taste, bake in 
a slow oven forty minutes. Mrs. Du Bois. 



Imperial Cake. 

Take in a bowl, one and three-quarters coffee cupfuls of 
sugar, and beat in six eggs very light; add to it five table- 
spoons of melted butter, four of sweet milk, two tea-cups of 
sifted flour with two tea-spoons of baking powder, a little 
salt and flavoring. This makes a very nice fruit cake by add- 
ing raisins and citrons or you can add a grated cocoanut if 
desired. Mrs. Parsons. 



Sponge Cake — No. i. 

One dozen eggs, weight of an egg in sugar, half the 
weight in flour, grated rind and juice of half a lemon; beat 
the yolks to a cream and the whites to a stiff froth; bake three- 
quarters to an hour. Mrs. Bryant. 

Sponge Cake— No. 2. 

Two cups of sngar, one cup flour, seven eggs, one tea- 
spoon baking-powder, one tea-spoon extract of lemon, pinch of 
salt; whip sugar and eggs together until thick, and white; 
add flour sifted with powder; mix all together quickly, put 
in pan lined with paper covered with butter. Bake in hot 
oven thirty minutes. Mrs. Smith. 



A Collection of True ajid Tried Receipts. 55 



LAYER CAKE. 
Orange Cake. 

Three eggs, one table-spoon of butter, one and a half cups 
sugar, two cups flour with two tea-spoons of baking powder 
sifted through it, half cup of rich milk, a pinch of salt; bake 
in jelly cake tins. 

Jelly for Orange Cake. 
Take two good oranges; grate a part of the rind of one of 
these; peel and grate both oranges, remove the seeds, add one 
cup sugar, two table-spoons water; scald in a tin pail set in a 
kettle of hot water; take one table-spoon of cornstarch, mix 
smooth with a little cold water, stir into the orange and cook 
just enough to cook the corn starch. When nearly, or quite 
cold, beat the whites of two eggs, add powdered sugar as for 
frosting, leave wet a little to frost the top of the cake ; stir 
the rest into the orange and spread between the layers of cake. 

Mrs. Boden. 



Chocolate Cake. 

Three eggs, one cup sugar, one and a half table-spoons of 
new milk, a piece of butter the size of an egg, half a cup of 
corn starch, one cup of flour, flavor to taste. 

Filling for Cake. 
Half a cup of grated chocolate, one tup of sugar, half cup 
of milk, one egg. Mix all together and boil till thick and 
smooth; put between layers and on the top. A. E. Robbins. 



Caramel Filling. 

Four cups brown sugar, one cup each of cream and maple 
sugar, and half cup of butter. To mix put over the fire and 
boil until thick, then cool and put between layers of white or 
cup cake. This makes six layers and top. 



56 A Treasure to Every Housewife. 



Minnelialia Cake. 

One and a half cups of granulated sugar, half cup of butter 
stirred to a cream, whites of six eggs or three whole ones, 
two tea-spoons of cream tartar stirred in two cups of sifted 
flour, one tea-spoon soda in half cup of sweet milk. Bake in 
three layers. 

FlI^tlNG. 

Take a tea-cup of sugar and a little water boiled together 
until it is brittle, when it is dropped into water; remove from 
the stove and stir quickly into the beaten white of an egg; 
add to this a cup of stoned raisins chopped fine, and a cup of 
figs, chopped fine; place between layer and on the top. 

Miss Nichols. 



Jelly Roll Cake. 

Three eggs, one cup sugar, one cup flour, pinch of salt, 
one tea-spoon or more yeast powder, two table-spoons of 
milk, one cup water; bake in a pan about thirteen inches 
square (in a quick oven); when done, turn out in a slightly 
dampened cloth, spread over the jelly and roll whilst hot. 

Mrs. Rundle. 



Cocoanut Filling. 

One teacup of sugar, three table-spoons of water, white of 
an egg, and as much cocoanut as you like. Miss Nichols. 

Cocoanut Cake. 

One half pound powdered sugar, one quarter pound flour, 
one-half tea-spoon cream tartar, one-quarter tea-spoon soda, 
one table-spoon boiling water, three eggs; beat yolks, stir in 
sugar, then whites beaten to astiiFfroth; then flour with cream 
tartar mixed through it, then soda dissolved in boiling water; 
bake three or four cakes in quick oven; make an icing of two 
eggs and six table-spoons of sugar; spread the icing on one 
cake, then a layer of grated cocoanut, then icing, then another 
cake and so on. Over all spread icing and sprinkle lightly 
with cocoanut. 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 57 



Cup Cake. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups flour, four eggs, 
one cup of sweet milk, one tea-spoon soda, two tea-spoons 
cream tartar or three of baking-powder. 

To vary it: Take out a small portion and grate in choco- 
late, flavor with vanilla. 

Marble with this: Divide the mixture into three parts, 
color one with strawberry flavoring and another with grated 
chocolate; bake in jelly tins and put together with cocoanut 
filling and ice with chocolate icing. 



'Wliipped Cream Cake. 

One cup sugar, one-quarter cup butter, one-half cup milk, 
one and one-half cups flour, two eggs, one tea-spoon yeast 
powder (if large cup is used for measurment, an extra half 
tea-spoon of yeast powder); bake in jelly tins. Whip some 
thick cream which has been sweetened and flavored with va- 
nilla to the taste, then spread between the cakes. Cocoanut, 
chopped blanched almonds or thinly sliced bananas can be 
spread through the cream. 

Isabel Cake. 

Two cups sugar, two cups flour, five eggs, one-half cup 
water, one tea-spoon yeast powder; beat the eggs separately, 
then together; add to sugar, beat, mix yeast powder through 
flour, stir in; with as light a hand as possible, then the water the 

same. 

Filling: Beat the white of one egg, add sugar until thick 
as frosting, juice of one lemon and a little lemon extract; 
spread between. 

L,emoii Cake. 

One cup boiling water, one table-spoon corn starch, one 
large lemon, juice and grated rind, one cup sugar, yolk of one 
ggg. grate the rind of the lemon into a cup, put in corn starch, 
beat the egg; have water boiling, stir in sugar, then egg and 
starch- let boil until it thickens and starch is cooked; spread 
between layers of any good cake before it cools. Carrie. 



58 A Treasure to Every Housewife. 



Confeflion Cake. 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup sweet milk, 
three cups sifted flour, three tea-spoons of baking-powder, the 
whites of five eggs ; take out enough for two or three layers as 
preferred, and bake. To the rest of the batter add the 3'olks of 
three eggs, one table-spoon molasses, one table-spoon flour, one- 
half tea-spoon each of cinnamon and allspice, one cup seeded 
and chopped raisins, one cup chopped figs, one-half pound of 
citron sliced thin — this makes two layers. Spread the dark with 
jelly and the light with boiled frosting, and frost the outside. 

Mrs. Parsons. 



Oilt-edge Cake. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup milk, two-thirds cup butter, 
one and one-half cups flour, one tea-spoon baking-powder, one 
table-spoon corn.starch and one of grated cocoanut. Stir the 
butter and sugar to a cream, add the milk, beating well to- 
gether the flour and baking-powder, the cocoanut and corn starch 
and last the whites of two eggs beaten stiff, and add a little 
salt. Bake in jelly-pans ; when cool spread with the filling. 
Filling for Cake. 

The yolks of two eggs and one cup sugar beaten together; j 
spread half the layers with this and sprinkle grated cocoannt 
thickly over it ; spread the others with currant jell}^ and place 
them alternately, having the j^ellow frosting on top covered: 
with cocoanut. Mrs. H. D. Bassett. 

sm:all cakks. 



Cliess Cakes. 

One-half pound butter, one-half pound sugar, yolks of 
seven eggs and one whole z%g; grate with care, the oily rind 
of a fresh lemon, rub this with the sugar, add by degrees the 
butter; beat eggs very light and mix all these ingredients well 
together; stir in juice of lemon. lyine patty pans with puff 
paste, put in bottom of each pan thin slices of citron, pour 
over a small portion of mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. Crane. %. 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 59 



Rice-Flour Cookies. 

One-half pound ground rice, one-half pound rice flour, 
dried and sifted, one pound powdered sugar, one-half pound 
butter, four eggs, juice and half the grated rind of a lemon, 
one table-spoon orange-flower water; beat yolks and whites 
very light, add sugar to the yolks, beat ten minutes, add 
orange-flower water, add lemon; lastly, flour and whites alter- 
nately; beat the mixture one-half hour, bake immediateh' in 
patty pans. Excellent whilst fresh. 



Macaroons. 

Blanch and pound of sweet-almonds one pound with just 
sufficient rose-water to prevent oiling, mix well with one 
pound of fine sifted sugar, beat the whites of six eggs to a 
froth, mix almonds and sugar bj^ degrees and continue beating 
it well. Do not let the paste become too thin or the cakes will 
spread in the oven; drop on wafer paper, grate over sugar and 
bake quickly. Mrs. Royal. 



Little Drop Cakes. 

One-quarter pound butter, rubbed well into one pound flour, 
eight ounces sugar, one-quarter pound currants, three eggs 
well beaten. Drop roughlj' on a buttered tin, bake in a 
moderate oven. Mrs. Hanson. 



Small Fruit Cakes. 

One pound flour, three-quarters of a pound butter, one- 
quarter pound currants, nine ounces ginger, cream the butter; 
add by degrees flour and ginger, lastlj' currants; drop into 
small cakes on a buttered tin and bake quickly. 



Almond Jumbles. 

One pound sugar, one-half pound flour, one-quarter pound 
butter, Qfie tea-cup milk; five eggs, two table-spoons rose 
water, three-quarters of a pound almonds blanched and 
chopped, one tea-spoon soda dissolved in boiling water; cream 



6o A Treasure to Every Housewife. 



butter and sugar, stir in beaten yolks, milk, flour, rose 
water, almonds, lastly the beaten whites lightly and quickly; 
drop in rings or round cakes upon buttered paper; bake imme- 
diately. 

Cocoanut Cakes. 

One nut grated fine, one half pound of powdered sugar, 
white of one ^ZZ^ raxsL nut and sugar well together with a fork, 
add white of one egg and drop on wafer paper; bake in quick 
oven. Mrs. Harvey. 

Slirew^sbury Cake. 

Dry one pound of flour, rub in six ounces of butter, four 
ounces sifted sugar, the yolks of two eggs and some caraway 
seed; work into a stifi" paste, mix with milk and roll thin; cut 
into small cakes and bake a rich brown. Mrs. Royal. 



Sponge Gingerbread. 

Five cups of flour sifted, one heaping table-spoon butter, 
one cup molasses, one cup sugar, one cup milk (sour is best), 
two tea-spoons saleratus, dissolved in hot water, two tea- 
spoons of ginger, and two of cinnamon. Mix molasses, sugar, 
butter and spice together, warm slightly and beat until light 
in color; add milk, soda, then the flour. Beat very hard five 
minutes and bake in shallow pans or plate tins. One-half 
pound of seeded raisins cut in two can be added. Try it warm 
for tea. One-half the receipt may be used. Mrs. Hibbard. 



Hard Ginger Bread. 

One pint of dark molasses, two table-spoons soda, two tea- 
spoons pulverized alum, one cup each of butter and milk, two 
table-spoons of ginger; mix soft, roll out and bake quickly. 

Mrs. Webb. 



Ginger Snaps— ?io. i. 

One cup molasses, one half cup sugar, two-thirds cup of 
butter, boiling water to fill cup, one tea-spoon scyda iu mo- 
lasses, one tea-spoon ginger, flour sufficient to roll nicely. 

Mrs. Gordon. 



A Colledioji of True and Tried Receipts. 6i 



Ginger Snaps— No. 2. 

One cup molasses, two-thirds cup lard, cooked together 
five minutes; after lard is dissolved, one egg and one cup 
brown sugar mixed, a little ca5'enne pepper or any spice, one 
table-spoon vinegar and one of soda. Dissolve half the soda 
in a little water, add to molasses, the rest in vinegar; Stir all 
together and knead in flour enough to keep it off the board. 

Mrs. Bassett. 



Cookies. 

Three cups sugar, two of butter, two eggs, half a cup of 
sweet milk, juice and rind of a lemon, one tea-spoon yeast 
powder; rub butter and sugar together, add lemon, then some 
flour and j'east powder, then the milk, and flour enough to 
roll, not stiff, but soft and thin, and then dip each cookie in a plate' 
of granulated sugar and bake in a slow oven a light brown. 
These keep well. Small cup to be used in measuring. 

Mrs. Boden. 



Eggless Cookies. 

One cup white sugar, half cup butter, half cup sour milk, 
pinch of salt, nutmeg, a half tea-spoon soda dissolved in hot 
water; mix with flour to roll, then sprinkle with granulated 
sugar; cut and place in tin not touching; bake in a quick oven; 
take out, lay on cloth or paper separately to cool; re-roll and 
sprinkle mixture with sugar. Mrs. Bassett. 



Cream Douglinuts. 

One cup white sugar, two eggs beaten with sugar, one 
cup of sour milk, adding two tea-spoons of thick cream, one of 
soda dissolved in hot water, a little salt and nutmeg; roll out, 
fry in hot lard and sprinkle sugar over while warm. L. R. B. 



62 A Treasure to Every Housewife . 



DESSERTS. 

Italian Cheese. 

To one quart of cream add the juice of three lemons and 
the rind of one finely grated; sweeten to your taste, whisk it 
until as thick as for solid syllabub; tie a napkin over a sieve 
and put the mixture into it and let it drain for twenty-four hours, 
then turn it out and garnish with any preserves or jelly you 
prefer. Mrs. Tempest, 

Lemon Sno^v. 

Take one-quarter box of Cooper's gelatine and dissolve it 
in one-quarter pint of water; add when dissolved, the juice of 
two lemons and grated rind of one, and one-half cup of sugar, 
then pour on boiling water, enough to make the whole a pint; 
strain and set to cool. Beat the whites of two eggs stiff, with 
one-half cup of sugar; when the gelatine begins to stiffen whip 
lightly with an egg beater, add the whites and put in a mould. 
This can be served on a dish with soft custard made from the 
yolks of the eggs. Mrs. Ewen. 



Fried Cream. 

To two eggs well beaten, add two heaping table-spoons of 
white sugar, small piece of butter, pinch of salt and sufficient 
corn starch to make the consistency of thick cream. Have 
ready boiling, one and a half tea-cups of sweet milk, into 
which stir the mixture constantly for five minutes; remove from 
the fire and pour into a long deep pan, set aside until perfectly 
cold and firm, cut into small squares and dip each into the 
beaten yolks of two eggs, then into rolled, sifted, cracker 
crumbs; fry in hot lard a delicate brown; when done remove 
carefully on to brown paper. Arrange closely on a platter, 
pour one-half glass of good Cognac over the whole, sprinkle 
with sugar, set on fire and send to table. 

Mrs. Ba.ssett. 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 63 



Kisses. 

Beat the whites of eight eggs to a stiff froth, then sift in 
slowly one pound of white sugar and a little lemon juice; drop 
on paper, bake in a moderate oven until a Jight brown. 

Miss Goodwin. 



Orange Jelly. 

Soak half a box of gelatine in a cup of cold water, add two 
tea-cups of boiling water; when thoroughly di,ssolved, add one 
tea-cup of sugar, the juice of six oranges, also two lemons, 
one dessert-spoon of vanilla; .strain and put in moulds. To 
be made the day before using. Mrs. Boden. 



Charlotte Russe. 

One cup of thick sweet cream, made very cold and whipped 
to a stiff froth, one-half box of gelatine dissolved in water, 
four eggs beaten separately, one cup of sugar added to the 
yolks; strain the gelatine and add slowly to the cream, then 
add the whites, then the yolks and sugar and flavor with van- 
illa, beating constantly. Pour into moulds lined with lady fin- 
gers. Mrs. Bradley. 



Salted Almonds. 

Shell, blanch and spread the nuts in a dish, add a piece of 
butter size of a hickory nut and place in a moderate oven. 
l,et remain until a golden brown, stir briskly and dredge with 
salt. Mrs. Smith. 



Burnt Custard. 

Put one coffee-cup of brown sugar in a tin basin with a 
little water, set on the stove and boil until it breaks into bub- 
bles and is very' brown. Make a rich custard of five eggs well 
beaten, one cup of white sugar, a pinch of salt, a tea-spoon of 
vanilla and one quart of milk; pour the custard into the hot 
cooking sugar; put in the oven and bake very slowly until set. 
Then take the pan and set it in cold water for one-half hour, 
then place on a glass or other dish, shake slightly to tran,sfer 
it; when quite cold serve. Mrs. Boden. 



64 A Treasure to Every Housewife . 

"Wine Jelly. 

To one box gelatine, add one pint of cold water; put a few 
pieces of cinnamon, several cloves, the rinds of two lemons to 
the gelatine, let stand over night; in the morning add three 
quarts of boiling water, one and one-half pounds of sugar, the 
juice of two or more lemons, one pint of white wine, strain 
through flannel and set away to cool. When thoroughly hard- 
ened, run a knife through it three or four times before turning 
into a glass dish. Mrs. Bradley. 



Devonshire Sponge. 

Two and one-half pints of water, one and one-quarter cups 
of sugar, whites of four eggs, one package gelatine, essence of 
lemon to taste. Dis.solve one package of gelatine in one-half 
pint cold water for fifteen minutes, add two and one-half pints 
of boiling water, one-quarter cup sugar and the beaten white 
of one &%%, let boil seven minutes; strain into a pitcher, flavor 
with lemon and let jelly; beat to a stiff froth the whites of 
three eggs, add to the mixture, stir well together, pour into 
moulds and place on ice; serve with rich .sweet cream. The 
above quantity will make two moulds. Mrs. H. 

Banana Cream. 

One quart milk, one-third of a box of gelatine, one cup of 
sugar, four eggs beaten separately; soak gelatine in milk for 
one hour, pufeit in the farina boiler with one cup sugar; when 
hot, add the well-beaten yolks of eggs, flavor with vanilla to 
taste; beat the whites to a stiff" froth, stir into the mixture 
thoroughly, slice four' bananas, place in moulds, strain the 
cream over, .serve with rich cream. 



Rotlie Grut2;e. 

Boil equal quantities of red raspberries, currants and Mo- 
rello cherries together; strain oS" the juice; to each quart of 
boiling juice, add four table-spoons or three ounces of corn 
starch or rice flour; sweeten well; let it boil until the flour is 
well cooked, pour into moulds, serve when cold with cream. 

Mrs. Boden. 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 65 



Italian Cream. 

Three eggs, one quart of milk, three-fourths box of gela- 
tine; sweeten as custard, one pint cream, whipped and mix 
with the custard; when cold, mould; eat cold. 



"Velvet Cream. 

Half ounce of isinglass, dissolve in a half pint of warm 
sherry sweetened; add to it one and one-half pint of good 
thick cream, then pour into moulds or glasses. Mrs. Mould. 



A Devonshire Junket. 

Two table-spoons apricot-preserves into a "Trifle dish", 
add the juice of a lemon and half of the rind grated, a little 
fine lump sugar; dissolve half an ounce of isinglass in a little 
water, add to it a pint of boiling cream, put into a pitcher, 
hold high over the dish and pour upon the other ingredients; 
when cold serve. 



L.emon Snow. 

Take one-quarter box of Cooper's gelatine and dissolve in 
one-quarter pint cold water; add to it when dissolved the juice 
of two lemons, grated rind of one and half a cup of sugar; 
then pour on boiling water, enough to make the whole a pint, 
strain and set to cool. Beat the whites of two eggs stiff with 
half cup sugar; when the gelatine begins to stifBIn, whip light 
with an egg beater, add the whites and mould. If desired, 
serve' on a dish with soft custard made from the 3^olks of the 
eggs. Mrs. Emma P. Ewen. 



Solid Custard. 

One ounce gelatine, two pints new milk, one dozen bitter 
almonds pounded (or essence), yolks of four eggs. Dissolve 
the gelatine in the milk, add the almonds, place the mixture 
on the fire and let it boil five minutes, pour through a sieve; 
add the yolks of eggs well beaten, sweeten to taste, put it on 
the fire till it thickens, stir it till nearly cold and pour into a 
mould. Miss Miner. 



66 A Treasure to Every Housewife. 



Almond Custard. 

Take one pint of cream, blanch and pound one-quarter 
pound of almonds with two spoonfuls of rose water, sweeten 
to taste; beat well the yolks of four eggs, stir all well together 
one wa}' over the fire till thick, then pour into cups. 

Miss Miner. 



Cocoanut Custard. 

One pound grated cocoanut, one pint rich milk, six ounces 
sugar, beat well the 5'olks of six eggs and stir into the milk 
alternating with the cocoanut and sugar. Put the mixture into 
a jar, set in boiling water and stir continually till smooth and 
thick, let come to a hard boil, remove and serve in cups. 

Miss Miner. 



German Custard. 

Make a custard as usual, add half an ounce sweet almonds 
blanched, roasted and pounded to a paste, same quantity of 
pie-nuts or pea-nuts, treated in the same way, a small quantity 
of candied citron, cut into very small thin slips, add to the cus- 
tard, place on the ice some time before using. 



Almond Custard. 

Take one pint cream, blanch and pound one-quarter pound 
of almonds with two spoonfuls of rose water, sweeten to taste; 
beat well the yolks of four eggs, stir all well together one way 
over the fire till thick, then pour into cups or you may bake it 
in China cups. 



.-I Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 67 



ICES AND ICE CREAM. 

Almond Ice Cream. 

One quart of blanched almonds, yolks of five eggs, one 
quart of cream, one pint of milk, one and one-half cups of 
sugar; put the almonds in frying-pan over the fire and stir 
until a rich brown, remove and pound to a paste in a mor- 
tar; cook the milk and paste together in a double boiler for 
twenty minutes; beat the 5'olks and sugar together, add gradu- 
ally to the milk and paste; strain the mixture through a sieve, 
stir occasionally while cooling; add the cream and one-half 
tea-spoon of extract of almonds before freezing. Mrs. Parsons. 



Ice Cream. 

To one quart of rich cream, add one pint of milk, one cof- 
fee cup of fine sugar, two table-spoons of vanilla or lemon, a 
pinch of salt; strain through a sieve, put into the freezer and 
stir the freezer very gently and steadily until well frozen. 
The ice must be broken fine with plenty of rock salt added to 
insure rapid freezing. Mrs. Boden. 



Iced Fruits. • 

Any fruits can be iced by first dipping in the beaten white 
of an egg, then in pulverized sugar until the icing is of de- 
sired thickness. In cherries, currants and strawberries select 
the largest. Pears and peaches must be pared and cut in 
halves. Oranges and lemons must have all the white, inner 
skin removed to prevent bitterness; cut the lemon lengthwise, 
the orange in quarters. 

Ice Cream with Fruits. 

Five eggs, beat whites and yolks separately, two cups 
sugar, one pint of cream, one pint of milk; flavor with straw- 
berry juice, sliced peaches or any ripe fruits; mix the ingre- 
dients and freeze rapidly. Mrs. Webb. 



68 A Treasure to Every Housewife. 



Orange Ice. 

The juice of six oranges, two lemous, oue pint of sugar, 
one pint of water; freeze same as ice cream. Lemon can be 
used in larger proportion for lemon ice; when half frozen, add 
the beaten whites of three eggs. Mrs. Parsons. 



Lemon Ice. 

Boil three pints of cold water and one quart of loaf sugar 
until reduced to nearl3' one quart of liquid, skimming when 
necessary; when cold, add the juice of seven lemons and the 
thin sliced rind; let it infuse one hour; strain mixture into 
freezer without pressing; when beginning to set, stir in lightly 
and well the beaten whites of four eggs, pour into a mould 
and pack in ice and rock salt. Mrs. Boden. 



Pine Apple Ice Cream. 

One quart cream, one large ripe pine apple, one pound 
powdered sugar; slice the pine apple thin and sprinkle sugar 
over the slices, cover and let the fruit stand three hours; then 
cut or chop the fruit into the syrup and strain through a 
hair sieve; beat gradually into the cream, pour into freezer 
and freeze quickly as pcssible. 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 69 

PUDDINGS. 



'Not all on books, their criticism waste, 
The genius of a dish, somejustly taste, 
And eat their way to fame." 



Eiiglisli Plum Pudding;. 

Three cups of rolled cracker, one pound of suet chopped, 
six cups brown sugar, one cup syrup, twelve eggs, three 
pounds raisins, three of currants, three of citron, one large 
table-spoon of allspice, cloves, and ginger, seven cups flour, 
two of water. This makes three puddings; take one-third, 
add two tea-spoons baking-powder, butter the mould, boil 
five hours. Put the remainder in covered dish until needed; 
add baking-powder before using. 



Plum Pudding. 

One pound butter, one of suet (free from strings and chop- 
ped fine), one of sugar, two of raisins seeded and chopped, two 
of currants thoroughly washed and .picked over, two and a 
half pounds of flour (ten cups sifted flour), quarter potmd of 
citron cut fine, one pint of milk, twelve eggs, one cup brandy, 
half ounce of cloves, same of mace, two grated nutmegs; 
cream the butter and sugar, add the beaten yolks, next the 
milk, the flour alternately with the beaten whites, then 
brandy, spices, citron, suet, and lastly the fruit well dredged 
with flour; mix all thoroughly. It can be boiled in a mould, 
basin or pudding cloth; if a cloth, wring out in hot water, 
flour well inside, pour in the mixture and boil five hours. 
One half the above makes a large pudding. Serve with wine 
sa,if.p Mrs. Hibbard. 



JO A Treasure to Every Houseicife. 

Christinas Pudding. 

Three ounces of flour, six of fine bread crumbs, six of 

(beef kidne}') suet chopped fine, six of raisins seeded, six of 

currants well washed and dried, four of minced apples, five 

of sugar, two of candied orange rind, half tea-spoon nutmeg 

mixed with powdered mace, three eggs and a small glass of 

brandy; mix and beat all well together; let it stand twelve 

hours, then mix and beat again; tie tightly in a well buttered 

and floured cloth. Boil three and one-half hours. 

Mrs. Boden. 



Plum Pudding. 

Half pound flour, half pound bread crumbs, half pound 
suet chopped, one pound currants well washed and dried, one 
of raisins stoned and chopped, one of sugar, rind of one lemon 
finely chopjied, one ounce sweet almonds, cut small, six ounces 
candied orange and lemon and citron peel, eight eggs, one 
tea-spoon salt, three wine glasses of brandy; mix all well 
together, adding milk to make it a proper consistency; boil 
eight hours. Serve with an}' sauce perferred. Mrs. Grindell. 



Steamed Pudding. 

One-half cup sugar, one-half cup molasses, one cup suet 
chopped, one of milk, one of raisins seeded and chopped, three 
of flour, one &%%, one tea-spoon soda, one of salt and one of 
cinnamon; steam three hours. Mrs. Allen. 



Steamed Apple Dumplings. 

Take a two-quart basin, slice into it a layer of nice tart ap- 
ples, cover them with brown sugar and pieces of butter, repeat in 
alternate layers until two-thirds full, flnish with butter, sugar, 
cinnamon, nutmeg, a small handful of flour sprinkled on the 
top; add sufficient water to cover the apples. Make a biscuit 
dough and cover; place a basin same size over the dumplings, 
set on stove, cook gently half an hour, do not let the water- 
boil off; keep covered to the last. Serve with whipped cream. 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 7 1 



Apple Dumplings. 

Select the large russet kind, pare, cut them in half, take 
out the core, fill the cavities with quince marmalade and two 
cloves, surround the apples with pastry, tie up in cloth; boil 
fifty minutes; if large, an hour. Serve with melted butter and 
powdered sugar. Mrs. Grindell. 



Albert Pudding. 

Cream half pound butter, mix with it graduall}' equal 
quantity of powdered loaf sugar (dried and sifted) ; beat well 
together; add half pound raisins seeded; strew in lightly, half 
pound fine bread crumbs, a little lemon peel grated; then add 
the yolks, and lastly the whites of five eggs (thoroughly 
whipped separately); put these ingredients, perfectly mixed, 
into a well-buttered mould already garnished with strips of 
candied lemon peel. Boil not less than three hours. 

Mrs. Hansen. 



Fig Pudding. 

Half pound best figs, washed, dried and chopped, two 
cups fine bread crumbs, three eggs, half cup of powdered 
suet, two scant cups milk, half cup white sugar, a little salt, 
pinch of soda dissolved in hot water and stirred into the milk; 
soak the bread crumbs in the milk, stir in tile eggs beaten 
light with the sugar, the salt, suet and figs; beat hajd and 
boil in a buttered mould three hours. Mrs. Parsons. 



Cottage Pudding. 

One cup sugar, one and a half of flour, one table-spoon but- 
ter, half cup of milk, two eggs and one tea-spoon of baking- 
powder. 

Sauce for same. 

One cup sugar and half cup of butter beaten to a cream ; 
flavor with three table-spoons of wine or brandy and a little 
vanilla; just before serving, add the beaten white of one ^%z 
and stir in half cup of boiling water. Mrs. Parsons. 



/- 



A Treasure to Every Housewife. 



Persimmon Pudding. 

One quart of milk, eight well beaten eggs, three sweet 
potatoes grated (raw) ; one pint of strained or sifted persimmon, 
a piece of butter size of a hickory nut and a little cinnamon; 
bake slowlj^ until set. Elvie King. 

Corn Meal Pudding. 

Take three pints of milk, seven table-spoons of white corn 
meal; take half the milk and put in a spider with the meal, 
scald, stirring constantly; while still warm, stir in one-half cup 
of butter, one cup of sugar and a little salt. Use the remain- 
der of the milk, add four eggs thoroughly beaten (together); 
bakeslowh^ three hours; a few raisins ma}' be used. Serve hot 
with butter and sugar or wine sauce. Mrs. Hibbard. 



Bake-well Pudding. 

Ivine a shallow tart-dish or large breakfast saucer with puff 
paste, cover it with apricot or strawberry preserve, fill it three 
parts full of the following mixture: quarter pound clarified 
butter, quarter pound powdered white sugar, four yolks, (one 
white only) of eggs and a little almond flavor. Bake in a 
moderate oven; when cold sift finelj' powdered sugar over 
them. The butter should not be put to the eggs till quite cold. 

Mrs. Greaves. 



Cherry Pudding. 

Soak half pound baker's bread in as much cold milk as it 
will absorb; press it out, add six eggs well beaten, two ounces 
of almonds pounded, quarter of a pound of sugar, quarter 
pound of warmed butter and a small tea-spoon of powdered 
cinnamon; mix well, stir in a pound of Morello cherries (fresh); 
put a small piece of butter in a nice, deep baking dish; set 
in the oven until it melts and is hot; pour in the mixture 
then place half pound of the cherries over the top, strew it with 
sugar and a few sliced almonds; bake slowly in a moderate 
oven; serve hot with cream or it is excellent cold. 

Mrs. Boden. 



A Collection of Trzie and Tried Receipts. J2> 



Iced Rice Pudding. 

Wash and parboil eight ounces Carolina rice; then put 
into a stew-pan with a quart of rnilk, a pint of cream, two 
sticks of manilla, twelve ounces of sugar and a very little salt; 
allow the rice to simmer very gently over a slow fire, until the 
grains are almost dissolved before adding the sugar; stir occa- 
sionally with a light hand; add the sugar after it has become 
well dissolved and mixed in; add the yolks of six eggs, stir 
well together for several minutes, then freeze; remove from the 
freezer, put it in a pudding mould, immerse it in ice for an 
hour or more, remove from the ice, wipe the mould free from 
salt or water, dip an instant into warm water, turn out on the 
dish in which it has to be served; make a rich syrup of Morello 
cherries and pour over for sauce. Mrs. Boden. 



Tapioca Pudding. 

Half tea-cup tapioca soaked in one pint of milk until soft; 
let it come to a boil then add one pint of milk, yolks of 
three eggs (or four) well beaten with a cup of sugar; cook 
same as boiled custard, flavor with lemon; beat the whites to a 
stiff froth and place in a dish; pour the custard upon them while 
warm; mix carefully. Serve cold. Miss Miner, 



Snow Pudding. 

On half box gelatine, pour a pint of boiling water, stir 
till dissolved; add two tea-cups sugar, juice of four lemons, 
whites of four eggs, beat an hour; make a custard of the yolks 
or serve with cream and sugar. Miss Miner. 



Bread and Butter Pudding. 

Cut some thin slices ot bread and butter, put a layer of them 
into a deep baking dish, then quarter pound of currants; re- 
peat in alternate layers, with currants on the top; take one and 
a half pints of milk; flavor with lemon (or vanilla) sweeten to 
taste; stir into this three eggs well beaten, strain this over the 
bread and butter; bake one hour in a moderate oven, turn it out 
and serve. Mrs. Hanson. 



74 A Treasure to Every Housewife. 

Transparent Pudding. 

Beat the yolks of eight eggs, and whites of two, mix them 
with half pint of butter melted, and same of crushed sugar; 
butter cups or moulds; lay at the bottom preserved apricots 
or orange marmalade; pour mixture on the sweetmeat and 
bake twenty minutes. 



Lemon Pudding. 

One pound beef suet, one and one half pounds bread 
crumbs, eight ounces of moist sugar, three eggs (well beaten 
separately), the juice and grated rinds of two lemons; boil three 
hours. Mrs. Burnette. 



Paradise Pudding. 

Quarter pound bread (crumbs), quarter pound apples, 
chopped fine; three eggs well-beaten, quarter pound sugar, 
half pound currants, two ounces of butter melted, a little nut- 
meg, grated lemon peel and a table-spoon of brand}' ; boil one 
hour. Mrs. Haiason. 



Italian Pudding. 

Mix with one pint of cream the yolks of six eggs and the 
whites of three (well beaten), half a nutmeg grated, sugar to 
taste, and a table-spoon of brandy; pour all into a mould that 
has been sprinkled over with caramels, steam gently half an 
hour; let it stand till quite cold, turn out, and pour cold 
custard with a (few caramels in it) around the dish. 

Mrs. Haynes. 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 75 

PIES, TARTS, ETC. 

In making pastry, always sift the flour; rub the butter or 
lard into it before adding water which should be as cold as 
possible. If lard be used, add salt, stir quickly and as little 
as possible. Many people mixing with a knife instead of 
rubbing it with the hands. 



French Puff Paste. 

Take one pound of flour, one of butter, a pinch of salt, the 
yolks of two eggs, rather more than half pint of water; press 
all the water from the butter; put the flour on the paste-board, 
work lightly into it two ounces of the butter, then make a 
hole in the center into 'which put the two yolks of eggs, salt and 
half the water, knead quickly; when smooth roll it out into a 
square half an inch thick, put the butter on the paste and fold 
the paste securely over it, roll out lightly but not thin enough 
to allow the butter to break through; (keep the board well 
floured), this gives it the first turn; now fold the paste in 
three, roll it again, continue this process until it has had six 
turnings; should the weather be warm, cool it between each 
rolling; this crust if properly made and baked, should rise in 
the oven five or six inches; the butter must be kept cool or the 
paste will not answer at all. 



Patty Cakes. 

Make a puff paste of the following ingredients: One 
pound flour, three-quarters pound butter, yolks of two eggs, 
a little salt, a very little ice-cold water; sift and weigh the 
flour, sprinkle a little salt over it; beat the yolks of the eggs 
and stir into them a few spoonfuls of ice cold water, wash this 
into the flour with the hand until you have a smooth paste; 
work the butter in cold water until the salt is out; drain and 
work until supple, (not too soft); roll out the paste, spread with 



,r/ Treasure to Every Housewife. 



one-third the butter, sprinkle with flour, fold up and then 
roll out again and repeat the process twice; let it remain in a 
cool place fifteen minutes or longer, then fold and roll out several 
times, rubbing the top of the paste the last time with water or 
a little lemon juice; roll it out one- third of an inch thick; cut 
as many cakes as wanted, with a round tin cutter two and a 
half inches in diameter; take one-half inch smaller, press into 
the top of the patties half way through the crust; when all are 
cut brush the top with beaten eggs, being careful not to cut 
the edges; when baked take off the marked out covers, cut 
out the centers without marring the outsides; keep in a warm 
place till just before serving, when they should be filled with 
the mixture prepared. Mrs. Henderson. 



Cream Puffs. 

Paste. — One pint boiling water, half cup butter (boil) stir 
in one cup sifted flour, let cool and stir in three eggs without 
beating previously, pour in moulds and bake. 

Cream, — One large cup milk, let it come nearly to a boil, 
moisten one table-spoon of cornstarch with milk and stir in; 
add two beaten eggs, a little salt, half cup of sugar, stir till 
done and flavor with lemon; then pour into the cakes after re- 
moving from moulds. Mrs. Ivinnekin. 



Cocoanut Pie. 

Scald two cups of milk, add to this a cup of white sugar, 
one cup grated cocoanut, a piece of butter (half the size of an 
^%%), pinch of salt, the yolks of three eggs well beaten; moisten 
one tea-spoon of corn starch with milk; stir well into this four 
table-spoons of hot milk and pour it into the mixture. Line 
a pie plate with rich paste, fill with the mixture and bake in a 
quick oven. Beat the three whites to a stiff froth, add three 
table-spoons of sugar and beat again, spread on the pie, return 
to the oven and brown slightly. The milk of a fresh cocoanut 
can be used, omitting same amount of sw^et milk. 

Mrs. Bassett. 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 77 



Mince Meat. 

Two and a half pounds (round of) beef or tongue, two 
pounds suet, four pounds brown sugar, half pint of syrup, four 
quarts apples chopped fine, three pounds currants, one quart 
raisins seeded and chopped, one bottle champagne, three pints 
each of cherry, brandy and whisky, three table-spoons each of 
cinnamon, cloves, and mace; half pound citron, four nutmegs, 
two large table-spoons salt, the juice of four lemons and six 
oranges. Mrs. Bryant. 



Mince Meat. 

Six pounds apples, chopped; three pounds lean beef, three 
pounds, suet chopped fine (cleared of strings) ; four pounds 
raisins, three pounds currants, one of citron, orange and lemon 
peel, spiced to taste, and one pint of brandy. Mrs. Goodwin. 



L,enion Pie. 

The juice and yellow rind of one lemon, one cup sugar, one 
cup cream or milk, the yolks of three eggs, one table-spoon of 
corn starch and a pinch of salt; line a plate, pour in the mixture 
and bake. Beat the whites thoroughly, stir in lightly a spoon- 
ful of sugar, spread on the pie and brown lightly. 

L. S. Elliott. 



Pumpkin Pie. 

Halve, a pumpkin, remove the seeds, rinse, cut into strips 
and pare, stew in water sufficient to prevent burning; when 
soft, drain off the water, stew them over the fire fifteen or twenty 
minutes (taking care it does not burn); when cold, strain 
through a sieve; add one quart of milk and three eggs to one 
quart of pumpkin; if desired very rich, add two quarts of milk 
and twelve eggs, sweeten with sugar, adding it to the beaten 
^%,%„ then mix with the pumpkin; ginger to taste; grated lemon 
peel or nutmeg is an improvement; bake in a hot oven. 

Mrs. Hibbard. 



78 A Treasure to Every Housewife. 

Cream Cheese Cakes. 

Take a pint of cream, six eggs, mix with powdered sugar 
to taste, add a little nutmeg, set over a slow fire, let it almost 
boil. When cold, add currants and some lemon peel; bake in 
pite pans lined with pufF paste. 



Lemon Tarts. 

The grated rind and juice of two lemons, two cups of sug- 
ar, three eggs well-beaten and a table-spoon of butter; mix 
all together thoroughly, place over the fire, gently stirring 
until it boils; set away to cool. Bake in pate pans lined with 
puff paste; cover the top with whipped cream and brown a 
little. (This mixture will keep many months.) 

Mrs. Bassett. 



Apple Custard. 

Pare ten sour apples, stew with very little water until done, 
then rub them through a colander; add the well-beaten yolks 
of five and the white of one &%,%, half cup of butter, one of 
sugar, flavor with lemon. Prepare a meringue (of the whites 
and two table-spoons powdered sugar), spread over the pies, 
when cooked and return to the oven to brown. Mrs. Smith. 



Custard Pie. 

Line a deep pie plate with good paste, with thick rim round 
the edge; beat four eggs with two-thirds cup of sugar, add 
pint of new milk, a little salt and flavor with lemon or nut- 
meg. Bake slowly until custard is firm. 

Frosting. White of an egg well beaten with a sprinkling 
of sugar; if spread on while pie is hot, it will be sufficiently 
cooked; if desired, brown in the oven. Mrs. Yates 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 79 



SWEET SAUCE. 



"Wine Sauce.— No. i. 

One cup of sugar, one half cup of butter, one pint of boil- 
ing water, two table-spoons of sherry wine, a little grated nut- 
meg; put all these ingredients together in a sauce-pan, stir 
and boil after thickening with a small table-spoon of corn starch 
wet with water, say ten minutes; set where it will keep hot 
until needed. A nice sauce for any pudding, and is simple 
and easily made. Mrs. Hibbard. 

Puddings Sauce. 

Dissolve three table-spoons of currant jelly in a tea-cup of 
hot water, add two table-spoons of butter; when it boils thicken 
with a tea-spoon of flour mixed smooth with a little cold 
water; a little lemon flavoring is an improvement. 

Mrs. Kersey. 
Pudding Sauce. 

Four table-spoons of sugar, two table-spoons of butter, one 
table-spoon of flour; stir to a cream. Beat the white of one 
&%% to a froth, add to the sauce; pour in a gill of boiling water, 
stirring quickly; flavor to taste; a. little brandy may be added. 

Mrs. Kersey. 
Pudding Sauce. 

One cup of sugar, half a cup of butter, rub to a cream; 
add one wine-glass of brandy. Beat the whites of two eggs 
very light; stir them into the creamed butter and sugar by 
degrees; flavor with nutmeg. Mrs. Boden. 



8o A Treasure to Every Housewife . 

PRESERVING. 

A Few General Rules for Preserving. 

I St. Let everything used be delicately clean and diy; jars 
and bottles especially so. Never use iron, tin, or pewter 
spoons, or skimmers; they spoil flavor and color; use wooden 
or silver spoons and porcelain or granite pans; never place a 
preserving kettle flat upon the fire; it will render the preserves 
liable to "burn to." It should remain on top of the griddle 
or even a second griddle placed under. 

2d. Use onl)' the best refined white sugar; there is only 
waste in the inferior brands, from the scum it throws up; all 
preserves should be cleared of scum as it rises. After the 
sugar has been added to preserves, stir gently at first, and 
more quickly toward the end. Do not leave them until 
cooked. 

3d. Fruit which is preserved in syrup must first be boiled 
gently, until it is suficieutly softened to absorb the sugar, 
(as currants and berries.) To preserve the flavor and color 
of fruit in jars and jellies, boil rapidly until well reduced, be- 
fore the sugar is added. Do not allow them to become so 
much thickened that the sugar will not dissolve readily. 

Mrs. Boden. 



Delicious Red Currant Jam. 

Take the currants at the height of their season, the finest 
that can be h^d; strip them with care from the stems, weigh 
and put in the preserving kettle, three pounds of best granu- 
lated sugar to four pounds of the fruit; stir gently over brisk 
fire, let boil quickly, exactly eight minutes from the first full 
boil; should the jam rise rapidly to top of kettle lift and hold 
from the fire an instant. If the directions are carefully ob- 
served this will be a very bright, transparent, solid jam. 

Mrs. Boden. 



A Collection oj True and Tried Receipts. 8i 



Tomato Preserves. 

Eighteen pounds of tomatoes, nine pounds of sugar, four 
of sweet oranges, one tea-spoon each of cloves, cassia, and allspice 
tied loosely in a bag; let cook as long as tomatoes; cut oranges 
in thin slices, remove seeds, put in a separate stew-pan, cover 
with syrup of tomatoes and cook three hours, then pour all 
together, stirring constantly as it thickens. Mrs. Fife. 



Orange Marmalade. — No. x. 

Five lemons and sixteen oranges, cut them very fine, anjd 
soak twelve hours in four quarts of water; boil two and a half 
hours, then add nine pounds of white sugar and boil one hour. 

Mrs. Gray. 



Orange Marmalade. — No. 2. 

To every ten sweet oranges take two lemons; take off the 
peel in quarters, and boil the peel in just enough water to 
cover, two hours or until tender; remove the white skin care- 
fully, all seeds and stringy parts from the oranges and lemons; 
put the pulp and juice in preserving kettle; to each pound of 
the pulp, and the boiled rind, scraped free from the white 
part and sliced thin add one-half pound fine su,;jar and one- 
quarter pound of strained honey; add the water in which the 
peel was boiled; boil one-half hour and skim; then boil until 
it becomes thick and clear, put in jelly glasses and .seal. 

Mrs. Boden. 



To Dry Apricots. 

Wipe gently, split and stone some fine but not too ripe 
apricots; weigh and arrange everything in a deep dish or 
bowl, strew over fourteen ounces of fine powdered sugar to each 
pound of fruit; on the following day turn all into the preserv- 
ing kettle; let the apricots heat slowly and simmer very 
softly for six minutes, or a little longer should they not be 
quite tender. Remove from the stove and let them remain in 
the syrup for two days, then with draining spoon, remove 
singly on dishes to dry. Mrs. Boden. 



82 A Treasure to Every Housewife. 

Spiced Cantaloupe. 

Pare and slice cantaloupes as for the table, lay in alum 
water aftd weak vinegar over night, {real weak or they will 
shrivel to nothing) next morning boil in same water until they 
look clear, watch closely or they will fall to pieces; drain out 
of the water and make a syrup of one quarter pound sugar, 
one third of a pint vinegar, cloves and cinnamon to taste, to 
one pound of fruit; let come to a boil, put in the fruit and let 
simmer till you can run a straw through the pieces. 
. Miss Hrfrner. 



Hot Apple Jam. 

Take soft apples, peel and slice them, add their weight in 
loaf sugar dissolved in a little cider or water, let stand several 
days in the sugar; add rind of lemon, ginger, and cayenne to 
taste; put to boil and keep stirred until quite soft; pour into 
jars, cover closely and set away. Mrs. Tremaine. 



Green Gooseberry Jam. 

Take large gooseberries when full grown with equal weight 
of loaf sugar, boil the sugar to a syrup; add your berries and 
boil them together until a proper thickness for jam, be careful 
to .stir well all the time; keep in covered jars. 



Strawberry Jam. 

For every pound of fruit, three quarters of a pound of 
sugar and one pint red currant juice to every four pounds 
strawberries; boil the juice of currants with strawberries, stir- 
ring all the time, add sugar after dipping out nearly all the 
juice, leaving fruit quite dry, boil up rapidly for about twenty 
minutes, skimming carefully; put in glasses with bran died 
paper over top. Mr. B. 



A Collection ojf True and Tried Receipts. 83 



PICKLES. 

All pickles have nearly the same taste and there is little 
use (and much trouble) in multiplying varieties. A smalllas- 
sortment of the very best is amply sufficient for any table. 
One important point to be closely observed is to alwaysjuse 
only genuine cider vinegar. * 



Pickle for any Fruit. 

To seven pounds of fruit, take five pounds of sugar, one 
pint of vinegar, boil it over for three days; on the third day,, 
put the fruit in it, and place in jars while hot; seal. It will 
keep well for a year. 



Pickled Cherries. 

Take the largest and finest red cherries (Royal Anne or 
Morellas), cut stems short, fill a jar two-thirds full of cherries; 
boil cider vinegar, one cup of brown sugar to one quart of 
vinegar; skim it well; when the vinegar is cold, pour over 
the cherries; after three days, pour the vinegar off, boil and 
skim and pour over the fruit rhilk warm; after three days 
more repeat, pouring syrup over the cherries boiling hot and 
seal the jars. Grapes and plums done this way will not 
shrivel. 



Pickled Apricots — Sweet. 

Three pounds sugar, one pint of cider vinegar, six cloves 
(not more), two table-spoons of mustard seed, one table-spoon 
of cayenne pepper; mix the pepper well with the sugar, add 
the other ingredients; let come to a boil, then put in the ap- 
ricots (not too ripe), watch carefully and skim each one out 
separately; soon as a little soft, put in jars, cover the fruit with, 
the boiling syrup and seal tight. 



84 ^-i Treasure to Every Housewijc. 



Spiced Cherries. 

Seven pounds of Royal Anne stoned cherries; four pounds 
of sugar, one table-spoon each of allspice, cloves and mace, 
two of cinnamon, one pint of cider vinegar; make a syrup 
of the sugar and vinegar, adding spices, then put in the cher- 
ries; cook till tender, then skim out and put in the jars; boil 
the syrup to a consistent thickness and pour over the cherries. 

Portland. 



Chutney. 

One pound raw apples, one-half pound stoned raisins, one- 
half pound tomatoes, one pound coarse brown sugar, one tea- 
spoon each of cayenne pepper, ground ginger, cinnamon, 
cloves, one close garlic sliced, one table-spoon of salt; mix the 
sugar and spices together; add sufficient vinegar to make it 
the consistency of cream, slice apples and tomatoes thin, add 
raisins and garlic. Put all the ingredients into a stone jar, 
cover tightly and place where it will keep warm but jiot cook; 
let remain one week, .stirring occasionallj'. A lemon sliced in 
is an improvement; put in bottles, cork .tight; let stand six 
months before using. Mrs. Boden. 



'Walnut Catsup. 

Pick young walnuts when tender enough to be pierced 
with a needle; take one hundred and prick them in several 
places (not less than four), and lay them with four haudfuls 
of salt in cold water enough to cover over, bruise them well 
with wooden beetle and let remain in the pickle a fortnight, 
stirring well twice a day; drain off the liquor into a sauce-pan 
and cover the shells with boiling vinegar to extract the juice 
still in them. Crush all to a pulp and strain through a colan- 
der into a sauce-pan; boil and skim well; then add the vine- 
gar, allowing a pint of vinegar to each pint of walnut liquor 
(some add an equal quantity of beef gravy). To each pint, 
allow half an ounce of the spices when mixed (equal quantities 
of long pepper, pepper-corn, mace, ginger and a little cayenne); 
a quarter of a pound of anchovies, bones and liquor too; boil 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. . 85 



altogether one hour, strain and bottle it when cold. It will 
keep any length of time, and is excellent for fish, sauces, beef 
steak and gravies. A. Tempest. 



Mushroom Catsup. 

To each peck of mushrooms add eight ounces of salt, let 
.stand two As^ys; then bruise them with wooden beetle (or place 
in oven six or eight hours); strain the juice. To each gallon, 
three ounces of Jamaica pepper, two ounces black pepper, a 
quarter of an ounce of capsicum, one dram of mace, a quarter 
of a pound of anchovies in part of the liquor, then strain ; boil 
the whole gently half an hour, add the spices toward the end 
of the boiling; pour the whole into ajar, cover it up till quite 
cold, then bottle for use. Mrs. Hanson. 



Cliow-Cliow. 

Take two quart? each of onions, string beans, cauliflower, 
one quart each of green tomatoes, uasturtion seed, one-half 
dozen cucumbers, three each of green and red peppers, one 
cabbage, one ounce each of turmeric, celery seed, black pep- 
per, curry powder, a quarter pound each of white and black 
mustard seed, and ground mustard, two table-spoons allspice, 
one handful of fiour; chop the vegetables and let stand twenty- 
four hours in salt water. Put all the seed in one gallon of 
cider vinegar and boil, then put in all the drained vege- 
ables; when this boils put in the flour, turmeric and 
ground mustard mixed with cold vinegar; let this boil two or 
three minutes. Mrs. Du Bois. 



Mexican Pickles. 

Two cucumbers cut in pieces one-half inch long, two cab- 
bages chopped fine, two dozen onions chopped well, one dozen 
green peppers cut fine; put each in separate dish with salt 
sprinkled over them, let stand over night; the next morning, 
press the salt water out with a towel; then put in a kettle a 
layer of pickle and a layer of seasoning, consisting of two 
ounces white mustard, one and a half ounces of turmeric, two 



86 A Treasui-e to Every Housewife. 



ounces of celery seed, one-half box Coleman's mustard, and 
two and one-half pounds brown sugar. Cover all with cider 
vinegar and boil thirty minutes. 



Oil Pickles. 

Peel and slice twenty-five cucumbers or green tomatoes, 
five onions; salt and let stand over night. Then drain, add 
three table-spoons of mustard, two of allspice, one of black 
pepper, two tea-spoons of ground cloves, one and a half of 
cayenne pepper, one-half pint cold sweet oil and of cold cider 
vinegar sufficient to cover the pickles. 



Green Chili Sauce. 

Broil green peppers until thej' will peel by placing them in 
the oven or on top the stove; boil green tomatoes and with 
these mix the pepper after chopped, adding a little salt, a small 
quantity of water and vinegar. 

Curry Poiivder. 

Twelve ounces coriander seed, two ounces red pepper, three 
ounces each of black pepper and cummin seed, six ounces of 
turmeric, three-fourths ounce of green ginger, one-half dozen 
cloves, powdered, one-half ounce of cardamon seed, a stick of 
cinnamon. All to be pounded to powder, well mixed, and 
pounded again, then sifted; use one table-spoon to four per- 
sons. Mr. Wandesforde. 



To pickle a Mam. 

Half a pound of bay salt, two ounces of saltpetre, one 
pound of brown sugar, two ounces of Sal Runella, two pounds 
of common salt, boil them ip two quarts of strong beer; rub 
the ham with one ounce of saltpetre the night before you put 
it in the pickle. Baste it well every day for a fortnight. 

Mrs. Hanson. 



To pickle Hams or Tongues. 

Two quarts spring water, two pounds common salt, four 
ounces saltpetre, one pound bay salt, two pounds treacle; boil 
together, when cold pour over the hams but do not rub. Add 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 87 

a few drops of essence of smoke (if a smoky flavor is desired); 
this pickle is enough for two hams, let remain in about three 
weeks. Mrs. Hanson. 



Gray's Pickle. 

Two dozen large cucumbers cut in pieces half an inch long, 
two heads of cabbage chopped fine, twelve green peppers chop- 
ped fine, two dozen onions not too fine. Put in separate dishes, 
sprinkle salt over them and let stand all night; the next morn- 
ing squeeze all the salt-water from the vegetables by pressing 
in a towel; place in a kettle a layer of pickle, then one of sea- 
spning, comprised of two ounces white mustard seed, one and 
a half of turmeric, two of celery seed, half a box of Cole- 
man's mustard, two and a half pounds of brown sugar; repeat 
in alternate layers, cover with best cider vinegar and boil 
thirty minutes. 



Tomato Pickle. 

Two gallons green tomatoes, sliced (not verj' thin), one 
large cup of salt sprinkled in while slicing, one dozen green 
peppers chopped seeds and all, six large onions sliced, to stand 
all night with a weight on; drain in the morning, boil fifteen 
minutes in two quarts of water and one quart cider vinegar, 
then drain. Take one gallon vinegar, two pounds of brown 
sugar, one tea-spoon ground cloves, one table-spoon allspice^ 
one cup mustard seed, two table-spoons celery seed, some fresh 
root-ginger sliced (about two table-spoons), one whole garlic, 
(divided and peeled, not cut); let this come to a boil, add the 
tomatoes, let it boil ten or fifteen minutes, seal in "Mason" 
jars while, hot. Mrs. Boden. 

To pickle "Walnuts "White. 

Pare the nuts to the white and put them into ice cold water; 
have salt and water boiling, ready to put them in; let them 
boil seven minutes, then place them between cloths till they 
are cold. Take two quarts best vinegar, one of water, a quar- 
ter of a nutmeg, a few cloves, mace, whole pepper and salt, 
boil; when quite cold put in the walnuts. Mrs. Hanson. 



A Treasure to Every Housncifc. 



Cauliflower Pickle. 

Break the cauliflower into small pieces, pour over it once 
or twice boiling salt and water; let it remain in the brine till 
quite cold, about twenty-four hours, then drain on a sieve and 
pour over it spiced vinegar (with a very small piece of alum 
boiled in it), when cold, cover closely down. 

Mrs. Hanson. 



"Walnut Catsup.— No. 2. 

Pound one hundred green walnuts in a mortar until well 
bruised and broken, put them in a stone jar with half pound 
of eschalots cut fine, a head of garlic, half pound of salt, two 
quarts vinegar; let it stand ten days, stir night and morning, 
strain, and boil half an hour, adding two ounces anchovies, 
two ounces black pepper, quarter ounce mace, half ounce ' 
cloves; bottle in small dry bottles and store in a dark, dry place. 

Tomato Catsup. 

To one gallon of ripe tomatoes, put four table-spoons of salt, 
four of black pepper, three of ground mustard, half table- 
spoon of allspice, tea-spoon of ground cloves, six red peppers, 
one of vinegar; simmer the whole slowly three or four hours, 
strain through a sieve; bottle it while hot, seal; keep in a 
dark place. 



Chili Sauce. 

Twelve ripe tomatoes, peeled, two onions, four long, green 
peppers, one table-spoon salt, four table-spoons sugar, two 
cups vinegar; chop all fine, boil slowly two hours and bottle. 



A Collection of True and Tri^d Receipts. 89 



DRINKS. 

"Mingles with the friendly bowl 
The feast of reason and the flow of soul."— Po/e. 



Tea. 

The water should be fresli boiled (not exhausted by long 
boiHng), and the purest, the tea-pot well scalded; to one quart 
of boiling water, allow five tea-spoons of tea. Put the tea 
in the hot tea-pot, then pour over it sufficient boiling water to 
cover it well, cover closely and let it stand ten minutes to draw 
on the stove or where it will keep hot; fill up with boiling 
water and serve it immediately. Mrs. Hanson. . 

Another Way. 

Scald the tea-pot, then put in as much water as necessary 
for the first cups, put the tea on it, as in brewing, and close 
the lid as quickly as possible; let it stand five minutes. This 
is by many considered superior to the ordinary way as pre- 
serving the aroma, instead of it escaping with the steam as it 
does when the water is poured on the tea. 



To make good Coffee. 

To a coffee-cup of fresh ground coffee, allow one quart of 
boiling water; mix the coffee with a little cold water and the 
beaten white of an egg; add to this gradually the boiling water 
in the coffee-pot, also the crushed egg-shell (or two or three 
chips of isinglass previously dissolved in a spoonful of hot 
water) ; let it boil well ten minutes, stirring frequently ; pour in 
half a cup of cold water and set it back on the range to settle. 
Pour off carefully into the (hot) table coffee-pot and serve with 
boiled milk or rich cream. 



Coffee Milk. 

Equal quantities of fresh hot made coffee and boiling milk, 
let it boil together a few minutes. Set it on the side of the 
fire to grow fine and in five minutes it will be ready for the 
table. '^rs. Hanson. 



go A Treasure to Every Housewife. 



To make French Coffee. 

Put your fresh ground coffee into the strainer of your 
French coffee-pot and the plate with the holes put over it. 
Boiling water is then poured on and filters through into the 
bottom vessel or pot; the pot shotild be kept on the stove a few 
moments till scalding hot and the fluid which has filtered 
through poured in at the top again, which will extract all the 
flavor of the berry and is far superior to that boiled. 



Chocolate. 

Allow four table-spoons of grated chocolate to a pint of 
water and a pint of milk; rub the chocolate smooth in a little 
cold water, stir into the boiling water, boil fifteen minutes, 
add the milk, boil ten minutes longer, stirring frequently, 
sweeten to taste when on the fire or when serving in the cups. 



Frothed Chocolate. 

One pint of boiling water, three pints of fresh milk, one 
table-spoon of grated chocolate, four eggs (whites only), beaten 
lightly with .two table-spoons of sugar. Heat the milk to 
scalding, moisten the chocolate with the boiling water, then 
stir in the hot milk, let it simmer gently for six or seven min- 
utes; boil up quickly once, take from the fire, sweeten to 
taste, stir in the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 
without sugar, pour into the chocolate pot or pitcher (which 
should be well heated). Cover the surface of each cup with 
sweetened white, of egg or whipped cream. 

Mrs. Bassett. 



Cocoa. 

One quart of boiling water, two ounces of prepared cocoa 
and one quart of milk. Prepare in the same way as chocolate 
only allowing it to boil about an hour before adding the milk, 
then let it heat almost to boiling and take from the fire, sweeten 
to taste. 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 91 

Cocoa Shells. 

Put a tea-cup of shells to one quart of boiling water, boil 
from half an hour to three hours, (as you have time;) scald 
milk as fqr coffee; if desired for breakfast and have not time 
for boiling so long, they can be prepared by soaking them over 
night and boiled in the same water next morning. 



L,einonafle. 

Pare four or more lemons, slice and squeeze them on half 
a pound of finely powdered sugar; rub a couple of lumps of 
siigar on the rind of one, until they have imbibed the oil from 
it (or pour a table-spoon of hot water over it,) add, with half 
a cup of cold water and let them stand about fifteen or twentj- 
minutes, then pour in three pints of water and it will be ready 
for use. 



Stranvberry Sherbet. 

Crush|well a quart of fresh, ripe strawberries, then add the 
juice of one lemon and about a quart of water; let it stand 
some hours, strain this over a pound of white sugar, stir fre- 
quently until the sugar is quite dissolved, strain and serve 
iced. 



Portable Lemonade. 

Mix one-quarter of a pound of white sugar with the grated 
rind of a large juicy lemon; pour on this the strained juice of 
the lemon and pack in a jar; one table-spoon of this will make 
a ver}' good glass of lemonade. Mrs. Bassett. 



A Summer Drink. 

Two ounces of tartaric acid, two pounds of white sugar, the 
juice of half a lemon, three pints of water; boil altogether five 
minutes. When cold, add the whites of three eggs well-beaten 
with half a cup of flour; half an ounce of wintergreen; 
bottle and keep in a cool place. Take two table-spoons of this 
syrup to one tumbler of water, after mixing add a quarter tea- 
spoon of soda. Mrs. Bassett. 



92 A Treasure to Every Housewife. 



Blackberry Cordial. 

To one quart of blackberry juice, add one pound of white 
sugar, one table-spoon each of cloves, allspice, cinnamon and 
nutmeg; boil altogether fifteen minutes, add a wine glass of 
brandy; bottle while hot, cork tight and seal. 



Wild Cherry Cordial. 

(Very Good.) 
Eight quarts of cherries, four quarts of boiling water, pour 
over the cherries, let it stand twelve hours, stirring occassion- 
ally, press out all the juice and strain. Add three pounds of 
sugar to four quarts of juice, set it away in a stone jar to fer- 
ment, with a cloth thrown lightly over it; when it has finished 
fermenting clean it off carefully. Set the jar away for six 
months and then bottle it. Miss Bolton. 



Gooseberry "Vinegar. 

Take a quantity of ripe gooseberries, bruise them in a mar- 
ble mortar, then measure them and to every quart of goose- 
berries add three quarts of water which has been previously 
boiled and allowed to stand to cool, put in a deep earthen jar 
and let it stand for twenty-four hours. Strain them through a 
flannel bag and to each gallon add one pound of coarse sugar, 
stir it well and cork closely in a small barrel; it is fit for use in 
six months, but better when kept longer. 



Ginger Beer. 

Take one ounce of fine Jamaica ginger, one ounce cream of 
tartar, which put into a vessel sufficiently large to hold five 
quarts of boiling water, these to remain together till only new 
milk warm; then add twelve ounces of finely powdered sugar, 
previously mixed with a little essence of lemon, (eight drops); 
lastly add two table-spoons of good yeast; when luke-warm 
pass it through a jelly bag and bottle off immediately in 
.stone bottles and tie the corks down. Mrs. Hanson. 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 93 



French Raspberry "Vinegar. 

Put a quantity of raspberries into a deep earthen dish and 
mash with a wooden beetle, then pour them with all the juice 
into a linen bag, squeeze and press them so the liquid will 
pass through into the bowl below; to each quart of juice allow 
one pound of powdered white sugar and one pint best cider 
vinegar. First mix the juice with the vinegar and give it a 
boil in a preserving kettle; when it has boiled well, add gradu- 
ally the sugar, boil and skim till the scum ceases to rise; when 
done put into clean bottles and cork well. This makes a 
splendid drink in summer especially for invalids who are fever- 
isli. To prepare for use, pour out a half tumbler and fill up 
with ice water. Mrs. Smith. 



Spruce Beer. 

Two ounces of hops, two ounces chips of sassafras, ten 
gallon^ of water, boil twenty minutes, strain and pour in while 
hot, four quarts of molasses, two table-spoons essence of spruce, 
two table-spoons essence of ginger, one table-spoon of ground 
allspice. Put in a keg and when cold add one quart of yeast. 
lyCt it stand twenty-four hours, then bottle for use. 

R. Goodwin. 



94 A Treasure to Every Housewife. 



INVALIDS. 

Flax-Seed Tea. 

One-half pound of whole flax-seed, one-half pound of rock 
candy, three lemons pared and sliced; pour over this two 
quarts of boiling water, stir and set away until cool. Strain 
before drinking. Mrs. Bassett. 



Bread Panada. 

Take pared slices of stale baker's bread, toast without 
burning; place in a bowl, sprinkle a little sugar and salt be- 
tween the slices, cover with boiling water, put on tight lid and 
place in a pan of boiling water; let simmer until it becomes 
like jelly; season with powdered sugar and nutmeg. Eat 
while warm. 



Uglit Blanc Mange. 

One large cup of milk, one tea-spoon of corn starch moist- 
ened with a little of the milk, sweeten to taste and flavor with 
lemon or vanilla; when boiling pour it on a well-beaten egg, 
beating all quickly and lightly. 



Rice Jelly. 

Mix two heaping table-spoons of rice flour to a thin paste 
with cold water, then add to it a coffee-cup of boiling water; 
sweeten to taste; boil till transparent; flavor with lemon juice. 

Mrs. Henderson. 



Strengthening Jelly. 

Two ounces of isinglass and one ounce of gum (arable) 
boiled with it in two quarts of water, till reduced to one quart; 
sweeten to taste and add one pint of port wine and a little nut- 
meg. 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 95 

Hot Egg Nogg. 

Beat up one egg (well), add dessert-spoon of granulated 
sugar; whip mixture until both sugar and egg become 
thoroughly mixed ; then add boiling milk to fill nearly a tum- 
bler; then a sufficient quantity of Bourbon whiskey; dust over 
the surface a little nutmeg, allspice or ground cloves as 
taste may desire. 

Cold. 

First separate yolk from white of egg; beat well the yolk, 
then whip the white of the egg with white sugar; add to the 
beaten yolk milk and whiskey in sufficient quantities; pour 
on the froth and dust over the mixture nutmeg to flavor. 



g6 A Treasure to Every Housewife . 



French and other Candies. 

French Candies. 

The fact must be strongly impressed to always use con- 
fectioner's sugar, rolled and sifted; put the whites of two eggs 
in a tumbler, mark the quantity, pour into a dish, add the 
same amount of cold water and a scant table-spoon of vanilla; 
stir well together, add slowly two pounds of sugar, stirring 
with a silver spoon until thoroughly mixed. Have prepared 
one cocoanut grated, one-half pound of English walnuts,, same 
of almonds shelled, one- half pound of dates, stoned; take part 
of the dough on the bread board, knead in a little sugar, roll 
out about an inch thick, cut small pieces with silver knife and 
roll into balls, set aside to harden for chocolate drops. Cut 
other small pieces, and shaping, put halves of the walnuts in 
each side. Roll almonds in pieces of dough, then in granu- 
lated sugar, shaping nicely. Fill the opening in dates with 
dough, roll in granulated sugar. Roll into the dough as 
much of the cocoanut as it will take, roll out and cut into 
squares; some can be rolled into balls to cover with chocolate. 
Have prepared half a cake of baker's chocolate, melted, but 
not allowed to boil, drop the balls reserved for the chocolate 
into the liquid, remove with a fork, place on paper and set in 
paper and set in a cool place to harden. Any variety of fruit 
or nuts can be used. Mrs. Trathen. 



Cliocolate Caramels. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of warm water, half a cup of 
grated chocolate, three-fourths of a cup of butter; let boil with- 
out stirring until it will snap in cold water; pour on a buttered 
dish; when almost cold, score with a knife. Marion Duncan. 



Lemon Drops. 

Dissolve half a pound of pulverized sugar in lemon juice 
and boil to a thin syrup; drop on plates and harden in a cool 
place. Mrs. Clark. 

Butter Scotcli. 

One-half cup of butter, one cuf. of sugar, one cup of mo- 
lasses; when done will rattle in a tin dish. Marian Duncan. 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 97 



Miscellaneous Receipts. 

" An army of good words." — Shakespeare. 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

1 cup medium size ^ y^ pint or % pound. 

2 cups of sifted flour = i pound. 

1 pint of white sugar = i pound. 

2 tablespoons of liquid = i ounce. 
8 tea-spoons of liquid ^ i ounce. 

I gill (X pound) = 4 ounces. 

I pint of liquid ( i pound) = 16 ounces. 

Mrs. Smith. 



Pot Pourri. 

Rose leaves (Castilian are best), any powerfully scented 
varieties, jasmine, orange blossoms, lavander flowers, bay 
leaves, rose geranium, lemon verbena, sweet sented thyme, 
sweet marjoram, rosemary, violets, mint and any other fra- 
grant, (when dried,) herbs; dry all these separately in a dark, 
hot place, an attic is the best, or if necessary to dry more 
quickly, spread on blotting paper in a warm oven. To one 
pound of leaves add one pound of salt well dried, one tea- 
spoon of ground cloves, the same of allspice and cinnamon, a 
vanilla bean broken, about as much musk as would cover a 
ten cent piece, half an ounce of orris root, and half an ounce 
of benzoili gum. The dried violets may be added in the Spring 
and fresh rose leaves in ensuing seasons. The mixture will 
retain its scent for ten years or longer. Mrs. Kersey. 



Ronx for Thickening Soups, Gravies, Etc. 

Put into a sauce-pan a pound of good butter, bring it to a 
boil, taking care not to let it burn; remove from the stove and 
skim off the froth or scum, pour into a clean sauce-pan, tak- 
ing care not to let any sediment follow; add sufficient flour to 
make a stiff paste, place on the stove in a warm place for four 
hours, stirring occasionally until a rich, golden brown. One 
large table-spoon will thicken a quart of soup, and give a 
much richer flavor than the ordinary way of thickening. 

Mrs. Kersey. 



g8 A Treasure to Every Housewife. 



Tarragon Yinegar. 

Half fill a quart bottle with tarragon leaves, and fill it 
with cider vinegar; cork it tightly and do not remove the tar- 
ragon, refilling with vinegar when necessar3^ The flavor is 
fine and a great improvement to salads. 

Cougli Syrup. 

Half a cup of flax-seed; boil in one quart of water, strain, 
add two table-spoons of sugar, half a pint of honey, and the 
juice of three lemons; mix and boil well; when cool, bottle. 

Dose: One tea-cup as hot as possible on going to bed. 

Mrs. Smith. 



Bleeding at the Xose. 

There are two small arteries branching up from the main 
arteries on each side of the neck and passing over the outside 
of the jawbone, which supply the face with blood. If the 
nose bleed from the right nostril, for instance, pass the finger 
along the edge of the jaw until a slight dent and beating of 
the artery is felt. A few minutes pressure on that spot and 
the bleeding will cease. 



Pot Pourri. 

To make a pleasant pot pourri, gather flowers on a warm, 
dry day, when in full bloom. No flowers that are faded or 
over blown or that show any symptoms of decay or blight should 
be used. All stalks, leaves and seed vessels having been carefully 
removed, the blossoms or petals may be prepared by drying 
them at once or by putting them in layers in an earthen jar 
with a sprinkling of common salt between the layers. Drying 
is the quickest way and may be done in the sun, by spreading 
the leaves, etc., on trays previously covered with white blotting 
paper. The leaves should be frequently stirred by the hand 
and left until thoroughly dry; the different kinds .should be 
dried separately, as some dry more quickly than others. If 
dried in a jar with salt, which is probably the better way, they 
must be stirred with a stick twice each day for a month or 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. gg 



until dry, when ready for the jar or bowl in which the pot 
pourri is to be kept. The best flowers to use are the following: 
— roses, orange blossoms, jasmine in equal quantities, say an 
ounce of each and half the quantity each of heliotrope, laven- 
der, clove pinks and other carnations; of sweet-scented herbs 
to make the pot pourri refreshing, such as rosemarj', thyme, 
sweet basil, about half an ounce of each, fifteen or twenty- 
bay leaves, a handful each of the leaves of lemon verbena and 
rose geranium and the finely cut rind of two lemons. When 
these are all thoroughly dry they may be mixed together and 
essences and dry ingredients added to them. The latter are 
coarsely powdered orris root, bruised cloves, broken cinnamon 
and crushed allspice; any or all of the following may be added: 
ambergris, benzoin, cassia, patchouli, sandal and cedar wood, 
tonqua beans and calamus root. This is a very elaborate pot 
pourri, a very powerful, delicious and lasting one. One may, 
however, select a few of these ingredients to make a simpler 
one, taking care to have some of each class, such as flowers, 
herbs, roots, spices and gums, adding thereto some such 
essence or extract as neroli, attar of rose, jasmine, cassia or 
violet, mixing it well through the mass. Santa Barbara. 

Furniture Cream. 

Two ounces of white wax, two ounces of bees- wax, a 
quarter of a pint of turpentine; let stand twenty-four hours. 
Two ounces of Castile soap, one quart of water; boil until re- 
duced one-half, mix all the ingredients together and boil them. 
Put into jars or bottles. A. R. 

To Clean Bottles. 

Put into the bottle some kernels of corn, or some chopped 
raw potato and a table-spoon of ashes; pour it half full of warm 
water, give it a good shaking, rinse out, and if necessary re- 
peat. 

To Remove Freckles. 

Mix one ounce of lemon juice, quarter of a drachm of pow- 
dered borax and half a drachm of sugar. Let the mixture 
stand for a few days, then rub on the face night and morning. 



loo A 'I'reasure to Every Housewi/e. 



To make a Rose Jar. 

Gather rose petals in the morning, spread on paper for an 
hour or so, until the dew is dried from them, then place in a 
covered jar, a layer of petals, and a layer of salt. Add to this 
for several mornings until there is enough stock, from one pint 
to a quart; stir every morning and let stand for a fortnight, 
then transfer to another jar in the bottom of which has been 
placed two ounces of allspice, crushed, not ground, and the 
same of cinnamon sticks broken in small pieces; let it stand 
six weeks covered closely, and it is then ready for the perma- 
nent jar. Mix one ounce each of ground cloves, allspice, cin- 
namon and mace, one ounce of orris root, bruised and shredded, 
±wo ounces lavender flowers 'and a small quantity of any sweet 
scented, dried herbs or flowers; put into the jar in alternate 
layers with the rose stock, add a few drops of oil of geranium 
or violet, and pour over it all a gill of good cologne. The jar 
left open for an hour or so, will give a room a most delightful 
fragrance, a pure delicious odor, which is sure to charm. 



Lightning Cream. 

To remove spots from cloth, etc. Take five ounces of am- 
monia, four ounces of Castile soap, one and one-half ounces of 
glycerine, one ounce of ether, one and one-half ounces of 
spirits of wine. Dissolve the soap in four quarts of soft water, 
add the ingredients and it is ready for use. 

Salt will curdle milk, so in preparing gravies, sauces, etc. 
the salt should be added last of all. 



Never put salt into soup when cooking until it has been 
thoroughly skimmed, as salt prevents the scum from rising. 

When mixing thickenings for gravies, etc., always put in 
a little salt, and the gravy will be free from lumps. 



To remove iron rust, wet with lemon juice and salt, and 
lay in the sun. When dry repeat if necessary. 

A FLANNEL bag Stuffed with hops and wrung from hot 
vinegar, laid on the ear, will give immediate relief from ear- 
ache. Lay a piece of dry flannel between the bag and the ear 
to prevent burning. 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. loi 

[received too i^ate for insertion in regui,ar department.] 

SOUPS. 



Mullagatawny Soup. 

The remains of chicken or turkey, bones or scraps 
from roast veal, lamb, or mutton, two quarts water, 
two stalks celery, two table-spoons butter, two table- 
spoons flour, one dessert-spoon curry powder, one onion, 
one carrot, salt, pepper, and two table-spoons of rice or 
barley. Put meat and remains of poultry on with the water. 
Cut vegetables very fine, cook gently twenty minutes in the 
butter, skim them into soup, being careful to pour out all but- 
ter. Into butter remaining in pan put the flour and brown; 
add curry powder and stir all into the soup. Cook gently four 
hours, season with salt, pepper, and strain, return to pot, add 
bits of chicken and turkey and the barley or rice which has 
been simmering in clear water sufiicient to cover until cooked. 
Simmer one-half hour longer and serve. Mrs. B. 



Southern Gumbo Soup. 

Pick and singe a tender chicken, cut it in joints; peel and 
slice two onions, put in sauce-pan over fire with two table- 
spoons butter. Put in chicken, one-half pound ham and fry 
brown; cut in two three dozen green okra pods (if dried okra 
is used it must be soaked over night), one medium sized red 
pepper, one table-spoon of salt, and four quarts boiling water. 
Let the soup simmer slowly for two hours. Pick the meat 
from a boiled crab, chop a small onion, mix with crab and fry 
in two table-spoons butter; peel and slice a dozen medium 
sized tomatoes,- add with crab meat to the soup; let cook two 
hours longer, (four hours in all). Just before the soup is done 
fry a dozen large oysters and put them in the hot tureen. 
Draw the soup from over fire to stop boiling and stir in two 
table-spoons of gumbo filet at the last moment; pour over 
oysters and serve. Miss C. 



I02 A Treasure to Every Housewife. 



Jerusalem Artichoke Soup. 

Into a stew-pan put three slices lean bacon, half a head cel- 
ery, one turnip, one onion cut in thin slices, and three ounces 
butter. Brown these for one-quarter of an hour keeping well 
stirred. Wash four pounds articliokes, peel, cut into thin 
slices, add with one pint of stock to the other ingredients, 
stew down to a smooth pulp, add another pint and a half stock, 
two lumps sugar, add seasoning, let simmer five minutes, pass 
through strainer, pour back into stew-pan, simmer five min- 
utes longer, skim well, stir in one pint boiling milk. Serve 
with sippets of fried bread. 



ENTREES. 



Rissoles. 

Take cold meat of all or any kind, chop very fine and 
season with pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg, add a few bread 
crumbs, mix it up with cream and heat it over the fire, stirring 
all the time, or it will burn; take it off the fire and mix with 
an egg well beaten; make up into rolls like beef olives (rather 
thinner at the ends than in the middle) dip them in egg and 
cover well with bread crumbs, let them stand to be cold; then 
fry of a light brown. Serve either with or without gravy; 
if without lay them on a napkin. Fish is good done in the 
same way. M. Hanson. 



Braised Calf's L,iver. 

Take an entire calf's liver, lard it thickly with larding 
pork and put in a sauce-pan with one ounce butter, four bay 
leaves, three branches of thyme, three cloves, a sliced onion 
and carrot; cook for ten minutes; moisten with a pint of 
Spanish sauce and claret glass red wine, simmer gently for one 
hour and a half, take out the liver and keep very hot. Remove 
all grease from the liquid in which it was cooked, strain and 
pour over the liver, which should be left whole. 



A Collection of True and Tried Receipts. 103 



Beefsteak Rolled. 

Spread over a round steak, a layer of almost any kind of 
force meat. An ordinary bread, onion, thyme, or parsley 
dressing used to stuff turkeys is good. Begin at one end of 
steak and roll carefully, tie the roll to keep it in shape, bake 
in the oven same as you would turkey, basting very often. 
Make a gravy of the drippings, adding water, flour mixed 
with a little butter, season with pepper and salt, strain, skim 
off the fat and pour around the meat when served; slice thin 
from the end when serving. 



Mushrooms on Toast. 

Peel one and one-half pounds mushrooms, cut off a little of 
the root end; take one-half pound of round steak, cut up fine 
and fry in a pan with a small piece of butter to extract the 
juice; when done remove meat; when the gravy is very hot 
add the mushrooms, toss them about for a moment and pour 
the contents of pan over hot buttered toast; season with salt 
and cayenne; add a little sherry to dish before pouring over 
the toast. Mrs. K. 



L,ainb Cutlets. 

Cut the cutlets from the neck of lamb, shape by cutting off 
the thick part of the chine bone, trim off most of the fat and 
all skin, brush the cutlets over with beaten egg, roll in bread 
crumbs, season with pepper and salt, then dip into clarified 
butter, sprinkle well with bread-crumbs, fry them over a brisk 
fire, turning them when required, drain, lay on a dish, serve 
hot. 



W. H. ROBINSON. CHAS. JUSTI. 



ESTHBlxISHED, 186-5. 



JDSTI, ROBINSON & CO., 



-WHOLESALE AND- 



Commission Dealers in 

CALIFORNIA 

Green and Dried Fruits, 

RAISINS, ORANGES, NUTS, HONEY, 

BEANS, PRODUCE, ETC. 
316 and 318 Washington Street, and 315 and 317 Oregon Street, 

, SAN FRANCISCO, CAL. 



TELEPHONE 1099. P. 0. BOX 

1 04 



PARIS: NEW^ YORK: 

13 Rue D'Uzes- 486 Broadway. 



"CITY OF PARIS," 




♦ — f^^=t^ 



IMPORTERS # ^iS^BmL DEALERS IN 



DRY GOODS. 



G. VERDIER & CO., 

S, E. Cor. Geary St. and Grant Ave., San Francisco. 

DRESS MAKING A SPECIALTY. 



MOTTO. — "Honest and Reliable Goods sold as Cheap or Cheaper 

than any other house in the city." 

105 



Trappers' Indian Oil ! 

THE GREAT 

PAIN ERADICATOR 



One application relieves Rhaumatisin, Neuralgia, Catarrh, 
Pain in the Back or Side, Contracted Cords and Muscles, Swol- 
len or Stiff Joints, Bruises, Sprains, Earache, Toothache, Nerv- 
ous Headache, and all EXTERNAI, ACHES AND PAINS. 

ONE DOSE relieves Diarrhoea, Dysentery, Cramps, Colics, 
Cholera, Cholera Morbus, Painters' Colic, Sea Sickness, Sick 
Headache, Pain in Stomach, and all Internal Aches and 
Pains. 

EVERY FAMILY should keep a bottle of TRAPPERS' 
OIL in the House. It will be a Familj^ Physician both in 
Town and Country, saving Hundreds of Dollars in Doctors' 
Bills. It is well worthy of the name which it has earned for 
itself in many households— "THE GUARDIAN ANGEL." 

Remember — Whenever there is external pain in any form 
or part, you should apply the Indian Oil freely, and when 
there is internal pain, administer it internally in teaspoonful 
doses. 

Caution — Trappers' Indian Oil, the Great Pain Eradi- 
cator, is put up only in patent flasks, of one size. Get the 
Best. Ask for Trappers' Oil, and take no worthless substitute. 

SOLD BY ALL DRUGGISTS AT 50 CTS. PER FLASK. 
SAMUEL HANSON, Agent, 

HAYWARDS, CAL. 

io6 



ALLEN'S 

NEW^S DEPOT 

Haywards, California, 

FOR 

Fine Candies, 
Stationery, 
Fruits, 

Books, 

Periodicals, 

Frames, 

Ammunition, 

CIGARS AND TOBACCO, 

And all things kept in a well-stocked Variety Store. 

CHAS. ALLEN, Proprietor. 

Sherman, Clay & Co. 

WEBBER, ESTEY, EMERSON, McEWEN, 

PIANOS. 

Estey and Story & CM ORGANS. 



Lowest Prices for Cash or Easy Instalments. 



Bowman IVIandolins, 

Fairbanks & Cole Banjos. 

iVlartin Guitars. 



SHERNIAN, CLAY & CO., 

Cor. Kearny and Sutter S(s., San Francisco. 

107 




J. A. FOLGBR & CO., 



IMPORTERS OF~ 



Coffees, Teas and Spices, 

104 S 106 CALIFORNIA ST, 

San Francisco, - - California. 



-=3»'» ^ . "^SrotSr . *>'Fi~- 



Samuel Hanson, 

Qualified Jhapmap^l, 



3{aywards ©rug Store. 



■»■ ^^gn^ ■« 



Physicians' Prescriptions Accurately Compoun ded. 




AYWARDS 



-AND- 



VICINITY. 



10S.C. Armstrong, 



iproved 



-AND- 



Unimproved 



REAL 

STATE, 

HAIN STREET. 



,|]icaFd^, _^lameda Go., 

CATvIFORNIA. 



wards is within i^ hours of 
ancisco, and has seven trains 
f- Its climate is not surpassed 
iny in the State, and the rich- 
f and productiveness of the soil 
^is vicinity is without parallel. 



GOOK-BOOKS. 



Francatelli's Modern Cook-Book $5 00 

Franco-American Cookery Book, by Dglite 4 00 
The Unrivaled Cook-Book, by Mrs. Wash- 
ington 2 00 

Boston Cook-Book, by Mrs. Lincoln 2 00 

Virginia Cookery Book, by M.Stuart Smith, i 50 
Practical Cook-Book, by Mrs. Henderson, i 50 
Common Sense in the Household, by 

Marion Harland i 75 

Dinner Year-Book, by Marion Harland i 75 

Breakfast, Luncheon, and Tea, by Maricn 

Harland i 75 

Young Housekeepers Friend, by Mrs. 

Cornelius 1 25 

Miss Parloa's Cook-Book i 50 

Mrs. Shillaber's Cook-Book i 25 

Home Cook-Book i 50 

Mrs. Hale's New Cook-Book i 50 

Miss Leslie's Cook-Book i 50 

NoNPARiEL Cook-Book 1 25 

Universal Cookery Book i 50 

Ice-Cream and Cakes i 50 

Cottage Kitchen, by Marion Harland 1 00 

Francatelli's Royal Confectioner 2 00 

Francatelli's Cook's Guide i 50 

French Dishes for American Tables, by 

Pierre Caron i 00 

Dainty Desserts for Dainty Diners 50 

Perfect Bread ( 50 recipes) 25 

Lessons in Candy-Making, by Catherine 

Owens 50 

Six Cups of Coffee, by Miss Parloa 25 

Cooking Receipts, from Harper's Bazar.. . . 25 
Household Management, by Miss Parlra . . 75 
Valuable Cooking Receipts, by T. J. Mur- 
rey 75 

Living on $500 A Year, by Juliet Corson. . . i 25 
Family Cook-Book, by Jessup Whitehead. . . i 50 
Hotel Pastry Cook, by Jessup Whitehead. 2 00 
Hotel Meat Cooking, by Jessup Whitehead 2 00 
Cooking for Profit, by Jessup Whitehead. 3 00 
Housekeeping made Easy, by Miss Herrick i 00 

Menus Made Easy, by MisS Lake i 25 

Book of Forty Puddings, by Mrs. Susan A. 

Brown S° 

Carving and Serving, by Mrs. D. A. Lincoln 60 
Food and Feeding, by Sir Henry Thompson 1 25 

Cassell's Half-Dollar Cook-Book 50 

Entrees and Table Delicacies 50 

The Kitchen Companion. The new work 

by Miss Parloa 2 50 

Oysters and Fish, by Thos. J. Murrey 50 

Fifty Soups, by Thos. J. Murrey 50 

Fifty Salads, by Thos. J. Murrey 50 

Breakfast Dainties, by Thos. J. Murrey... 50 
Puddings and Dainty Desserts, by Thos. 

J. Murrey : 5° 

Luncheon, by Thos. J. Murrey 50 

How She Did It, or Comfort on $150 a 
Year, by Mary Cruger 50 

PIERSON aiOBERTSON, 

BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS, 
NO. 136 POST STREET, 

Bet. Grant Ave, and Kearny St., San Francisco. 
(Opposite Irving Hall.» 



GEO. JENNINGS. A. A. HOOPER. 

HOOPER Sc JENNINGS, 

(Successors to Tlios. Jennings,) 

Wholesale Grocers, 



-DEALERS IN- 



BUTTER, PROVISIONS, Etc. 

213 and 215 KRONT ST., 

Corner Halleck, Between Califoruia and Sacramento Streets 
San Francisco, Cal. 

Andrev/ J. Nor. Fred. G. Eiben. 

EIBEN & NOR, 




IGROCERSI 



1572 and 1574 Seventh Street, 

Copnef PeFalta Street, 



WEST OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA. 

no 



JOIN THE ARK 

Of sensible and economical People who from experience have 
learned that J. Goldfish sells better goods for less money than 
any merchant in town. 

OUR STOCK OK 

Is always fresh and well selected. Headquarters for 
GEXTS' FURNISHINGS. 

J. RUPPRICHT, 

HAYAV ARDS. 

B. SCHONWASSER. MAX DAVIS. 

B. SCHONWASSER S CO. 

IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS OF 

AND INFANTS' WEAR. • 

WEDDING TROUSSEAUS AND 

INFANTS' WARDROBES 

A SPECIALTY. 

NO. 134 POST STREET, 

SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA. 



THE UNION HUB RANGE 

^ — AKD THE — -@ 

MARVELOUS "WIRE GAUZE OVEN DOOR." 

The Union Hub Ranges are the most perfect in every de- 
tail. Special features of these ranges are the Steel Finished 
Edges. Drop Broiler Door; Shaking Grates; Extra Large Ash 
Pan; Large and Quick Working Flues; Full Sized Oven which 
BAKES PERFECTLY. 



USUAL 




CABINET 
BASE, 



THE UNION ^ifcAlBr ^^^ 

HubRanges 

Low Hot Closet, 

^^^^^^^ 'TKjr^B^S^^^*'" High Hot Closet, 

IN ALL THE ^M llHI^S^Bi Elevated Shell, 

Hot later 
Reservoir and 

STYLES AND [km^-^^^^mS^^i Wire Gauze 

SIZES. T^^Jri^^k— -^jiSi'*'* Oven Door. 

FOR BURNIImG wood OR COAL. 

Insist on having a HUB RANGE— Thousands in use. 

For Sale by all FIRST-CLASS DEALERS EVERYWHERE. 

The WIRE GAUZE OVEN DOOR is the most wonderful addition 
of the age to the culinary art, ever devised. 

It is an Automatic Raster, and produces results in the baking and 
roasting never before attained in any form of cooking apparatus and will 
completely revolutionize cookery. 

SEND FOR SPECIAL CIRCULAR. 



Agent for the Pacific Coast, 

J. DE LA MONTANYA, 216 JACKSON STREET, 

SAN FRANCISCO, 
DEALER IN 

STOYES, RANGES, TINWARE, AGATE AND GRANITE WARE, AND BLUE 

A.ND WHITE ENA.1VIEL WARE. 



PARLOR SHOE STORE 

-^H><-^ 



T^' DEALER IN LADIES', MISSES' Ol 

jT 1I1v3 and CHILDREN'S wIlOGS, 



X^' DEALER IN LADIES', MISSES' 

lilt: AND CHILDREN'S 

Also, Men's, Boys' and Youtlis' Boots and Shoes of the Best Quality. 



LADIES' FINE SHOES TO ORDER 11 SPECIllLTY. 

Kepalrlng pr®tnptly amd Neatly Pone. 

MORSE'S 

Photograph Gallery, 

THE LARGEST IN THE WORLD. 
826 Market St., (Phelan Block.) 

TAKE THE ELEVATOR. TELEPHONE 571. 



Copying and Enlarging Pictures in Crayon, Pastel, 
India Ink, Water Colors, Ivory Types 



and Sun Pearls. 

113 



©ame IKature is tlie XmM 3/Cotlier Still; 



^^m- 



California 

FRUIT SALT 

(Cpystaillzed Fruit Juices) 



Natuire's Own Remedy, 

WILL CURE 

HEADACHE, 

INDIGESTION, 

DYSPEPSIA, 

And all Stomach Troubles. . 



Why use nauseating medicines and drastic purges 

when you can get California Fruit Salt 

pleasant as lemonade. 

Fop Sale by flU Draggists. 

114 



J. HETHERINGTON, 



Fashionable Tailor, 



SCHAFER BLOCK, 



Haywards, 



California. 




\.S 



The Popularity of Camelline is not due solelySto 
its elegance and efi&ciency, but in part to the fact 
that it is a preparation for the complexion which 
is harmless, and commands Scientific Approval 
from Physicians. 

SOLD BY 

SAMUKL HANSON, Druggist, 

HAYWARDS, - - CAL. 

115 



T. F. GRAY, 

One Price House, 

Dealer in Diy Goods, Notions, Ladies' Dress Goods, 

< — BOOTS, SHOES, HATS, CAFS.— ' 



Ready-made Clothing and Gents' Furnishing Goods, Groceries, Country Produce 

t — AND PROVISIONS. — » 

Agency for the Universal Fashion Company's Perfect-Fitting Patterns. 

Album of Fashions, 64 Pages, over 1000 1,arge Illustrations, 15c. post-paid. 
Patterns Sent to Any Address, Post-Paid, on Receipt of the Price. 



TRUMBULL #> BEEBE, 

GROWERS, IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN 

Seeds, Threes 

AND PLANTS, 

J\[o|. 419 and 421 San|ome Street, . 



Bet. Clay and Commercial, SAN FRANCISCO. 

n6 



JAMES A. JOYCE. T. F. GREEN. 



Joyce & Green, 



Foreign and Domestic 



Dry Goods, Cloaks, k 



955, 957, 959, 



WastiingtorL St., 



Oakland, Alameda Co., Cal. 

117 



furniture, 

Q arpets. IJ pholstery . 

We carry the largest and most carefully selected stock in 
these departments to be found on the Pacific Coast. Our 
goods are of the very latest designs and prices will be found 
reasonable. 

W. & J. Sloane & Co. 

641 to 647 MARKET ST., Adj. Palace Motel, 

San Francisco, California. 

DAMASCUS 

GREME #' POUDRE, 

'World Renowned for Restoring and 

IMPROVING THE COMPLEXION. 



For the price — only 50 cents— the greatest of all beauti- 
fiers are Damascus Creme and Poudre being absolutely pure 
and free from injurious substances; medicated to impart health 
to the skin; also gives transparency and a peachy appearance 
of youth. No Ladies' toilet table is complete without Damas- 
cus Creme and Poudre. Sold by all first-class druggists. 
If not kept by your druggist, send 50 cents for either, or $1 for 
both, to STODDART BROS., Cor. Geary and Mason Streets, 
San Francisco, Cal. 

118 



Manufacturer and Importer of 



Furniture 



AND 



Carpets 



Oil Cloths, Window Shades, Lace Curtains, Picture Frames, 
DOOR MATS, CORNICES, LOOK- 
ING GLASSES, ETC. 

1108 and lllO Broadway, 

Bet. i2th arid 13th Sts., OAKLAND. 

H. FRIEDLANDER, 



DBAI^ER Il<{ 



Dry Goods, 
Cloth.irLg, 

Boots & Sh-oes, 

Groceries, Etc. 



motto — Honest, Reliable Goods sold as cheap or cheaper 

than at any other house in Haywards. 

119 



TAFT & PENNOYER, 

1163 S 1165 BROADHY, OAMND, CAL. 

IMPORTERS OF 

Staple and ^an(?i] Dfij Good; 



Special attention given to orders. 

Samples sent on application. 

AGENTS FOR 

Biittericki's Patterns. 
Haywards, Opposite Post Office. 

J. Wklisch, 

DEALER IN 

Dry Goods/>6eneral Merchandise 

COMPLETE ASSORTMENT IN EVERY LINE AT LOWEST PRICES. 

Ladies' ^^^ Children's Furnishing Goods 

A Specialty. All Goods Delivered. 
Hayw^ards, Opposite Post Office. 

I20 




NEITHER 

Baked nor Boiled 

But boiling over— with the newest— the 
best — the most — the cheapest in 

FI]SE SHOES. 

Store, the largest ! 

Stock, the nobbiest ! ! 
Prices, the lowest ! ! ! 

Q Pt T H b; © ® M ®. T . 

Kast's 

\ BRANCH: 

nil & 1 1 13 Broadway^ 



' )a.U;la.nd.. 



o<MEDICAL*HALLI> 

Calhoun Street, fisxyvaext'ds, Cal., 

DEALER IN 

Drugs and Medicines, 

TOILET ARTICLES, 

ARTISTS' MATERIALS, ETC, ETC. 



B. & S.-Homoeopathic Restorative. 

The most useful preparation for all f6rms of Debility, Im- 
paired Digestion, after exhausting diseases, and whenever the 

SYSTEM IS RUN DOWN. 
It nourishes the body and repairs waste, and stimulates the 
functions to renew activitj'. 

B. & S. HOMIEOPATHIC RESTORATIVE is the best general tonic 
known. Though but recently introduced in this form, it has 
been used by many physicians for years past with the most 
gratifying results in all forms of 

GENERAL DEBILITY 

where a Tonic is needed to arouse the system, thus after exhausting 
diseases, losses of vital fluids, hemorrhages, discharges, etc. 

Indigestion, Clironic Dyspepsia, Loss of Appetite, due to a lan- 
guid, weak and atonic state of the stomach find in B. & S. Homoepathic 
Restorative a Nutrient Tonie, stimulating the digestive process, 
and increasing the assimilation of food. Thus the blood is enriched and 
the muscular, nervous and glandular systems stimulated by increased 
nutrition. In this way it assists directly in rebuilding the worn out 
tissues of the body. 

Price $1 .00 per Bottle. 

Prepared, according to the prescription of a well-known old 
Homoeopathic Physician, 

By BOERICKE & SCHRECK, 

Sold by all Druggists. SAN FRANCISCO. 



JAMES A. COLLINS, 

DEALER IN 

CHOICE CANDIES, STATIONERY, 

KRUIT, KUTS, ETC. 

ICE CREAM SODA FOUNTAIN. CIRCULATING LIBRARY. 

Agent, W. U. Telegraph Office. 

Cor. Main and B Sts. Haywards, Cal. 

122 



Haywards Hotel, 

Haymafds, Alameda Co., Cal. 



A Pleasant and Convenient Summer and Winter 
Resort. Table and House First-Class. 



Terms, $8 to $12 per M^eek. 



s^ TM-dlm Stable in connection with tlie 3(otel. 

IVM. HAYWARDS, Profr. 

H. E. BRUNNER. B, W. BUTCHER. 

Dutcher & Brunner, 

PRACTICAL 

Plumbers and Tinners. 



Tin, Copper and Sheet Iron Ware in all its Branches. 

Water, Steam and Gas Fitting. 

Pump Work a Specialty. 

Estimates Cfieerfuffy §}ven, and aC[ Wor^ guaranteed. 

A STREET, ADJOINING CHISHOLM & FARRELL'S AGRICULTURAL WORKS, 

Haywards, Cal. 
123 



OSCAR J. BACKUS. LEVI M. KELLOGG, 

Manager. 

George H. Tay & Co. 

Manufacturers, Importers & Wholesale Dealers in 

STEAM AND HOT WATER HEATERS, 

TIN, COPPER ^i^ SHEET IRON WARE, 

General House-Furnishing Hardware, &c. 

PLUrvIBERS' SUPPLIKS. 



Printers and Lithographers on Enameled Tin. 

612 to 620 Battery Street, 

SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA. 

A. C. BLOOMER. CHARLES PROWSE. 

DEALERS IN 

Real Estate, 

INSURANCE AGENTS. 
Haywards, Alameda Co., California. 

Have Property For Sale or Excbange in Hayvards, and all Parts of Calilornia, 

Money Loaned on First-Class Security, 

124 





^Y|UP»fRc! 




feuRESp LEASANT lAXAtlVE 

A Pleasing Sense of Health and 

Strength Renewed, and of 

Ease and Comfort 

Follows the use of Syrup of Figs, as it acts 
gently on th i 

Kidneys, Liver and Bowels 

Effectually Clean=in<j the System when 
Costive or Bilious, Dispelling 

Colds, Headaches and Fevers 

and permanenlly curing 

HABITUAL CONSTIPATION 

without weakening or irritating the organs 

on which it acts. 

For Sale In 50o and SI. 00 Bottles ty all 

Xeadingf Drug^gists. 

MANUFACTURED OXLT BY THE 

OALIFOEUIA riG SYEUP 00. 

San Feahoisoo, Cal., 
B-ouisviHE, Kt., New York. N. Y. 





DAN. CHISHOI,M. 



JAS. H. FARRBLL. 



CMsholni & Farrell, 

Proprietors of the 

Haywards 
Agricultural 

Works, 

A Street^ Haywards. 



8®° We have unsurpassed facilities for 
doing all kinds of MACHINE WORK, 
repairing threshing machines, engines, 
etc., besides manufacturing the best vehi- 
cles— WAGONS and BUGGIES. 

B^^Call and examine our stock of 
PLOWS, and see the wonderfuUabor-sav- 
ing GARDEN PLOW, with reversible 
beam, that is indispensible for use in or- 
chard or garden. 

J9@"Extra Parts for Harvesting Ma- 
chinery, including extra sections for. 
Reapers and Mowers of all descriptions 
made on the shortest notice. Also all 
kinds of work in the Blacksmith line. 

B@°Threshing machine owners will iind 
it to their advaijtage to call on us, and 
those in need of all kinds of Machine Re- 
pairing can depend on us at once filling 
all orders. Especially in the manufac- 
ture of CYLINDER TEETH. 

J8®°In building Buggies and Wagons 
we' claim to be second to none in the 
county. 

S^"Don't fail to inspect our newpatent 
CYLINDER threshing machines, 

fi^°We are also agents for the celebra- 
ted BUCKEYE REAPERS and MOW- 
ERS. 



125 



RUSSELL H. COOL, 



D. D. S. 



©ental Tarlors and laboratory, 

CANNING BIvOCK, 
S. W. Cor. Broadway and Thirteentli Street, 

ROOMS 12, 13, 14 AND IB, 

OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA. 



Branch Office at Haywards Every Tuesday. 



G. S. LANGAN, 



Attorney^Law 



HAYWARDS, 



CALIFORNIA. 



126 



Strobel & Neudeck, 



PROPRIETORS OF THE 



Brighton Market, 

COR. MAIN AND C STREETS. 



Dealers in Fresh Beef, Veal, Mutton and Pork, 
Bolognas and Fresh Sausages. 




127 



New Zealand 
Insurance Co, 



Capital $S,000,000. 



Unlimited Liability of Sbarebolders. 



A. G. DAVIS, 

Manager Alameda Co. Branch. 
A. B. TENNENT, Special Agent. 



902 Broadway, bet. 8th and 9th Streets, 

OAKLAND, CAL,. 



W. K. VANDERSLICE & CO., 

136 Sutter St., San Francisco, 

MANUFACTURING 

Silversmiths # Jewelers, 



AND IMPORTERS OF 



Diaionds, Watcbes and Clocks, 



We keep on hand a full line of 

HOWARD, WALTHAM, AND EI.GIN WATCHES. 

We Manufacture SOLID SILVERWARE, and carry a Large 

and Complete Stock of it. 



Ip PLATED WARE, we have all the Standard Makes such 
as GoRHAM, Meriden, Rogers Bros, and 

MiDDLETOWN Pl,ATE Co. 



Estimates and Designs Furnished for work of any character 
either in Silver or Gold. 

CORRESPONDENCE SOLICITED. 



