LIBRARY OF, CONGRESS. 

-^J^ — 

Shelf. .f.lZt 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 11 



JOURNAL COOK BOOK. 



COMPILED 



RECIPES AND HOME-TALKS 



CONTRIBUTED TO THE 



JOURNAL " HOUSEHOLD " 



Journal Housewives. -•^p^'^'G/vr -ss* 



^^'l A 1889 



i?, ^ 



rfGTON. 



Edited by AUGUSTA S. PRESCOTT. 



ALBANY: 

PUBLISHED BY THE ALBANY JOURNAL COMPANY 

1889. 



/-^^ 



0^ 



Entered according to act of Congress, in the j'ear eighteen hundred and eighty-nine, 

By the journal COMPANY, ALBANY, N. Y., 

In the office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. 



CONTENTS. 



Page. 

Be verages 48 

Biscuit 38 

Bread 35 

Cake 23 

Eggs 42 

Familiar Talks on Familiar Topics 55 

Fish 6 

Gems 38 

Meats 8 

Memoranda 62 

Miscellaneous Recipes 51 

Pickles 45 

Pies 20 

Practical Hints 53 

Preserves 43 

Puddings 14 

Salads 50 

Shortcakes 38 

Soup 5 

Vegetables , 11 

Yeast 3'7 



JOURNAL COOK BOOK. 



Soup. 



Cabbage Soup. Cut one quart cabbage as for cold-slaw; put 
ou the stove with one pint water; add more if necessary; cook 
until thoroughly done; then add one pint sweet milk; season 
with salt, pepper and a small piece of butter. Pour all over 
broken crackers, and serve hot. Mrs. C. E. B., Delmar. 

Beef Broth. Take a slice of good juicy beef, the round is 
good, but be careful not to get that which is too young as the old 
is much richer. Out in small pieces, sprinkle a little salt over 
it, and cover with cold water. Set it where it will be warm, but 
not come to a scalding heat for one hour, then set where it will 
simmer gently for one hour, skimming carefully. Be sure to 
remove all particles of fat and skin before putting in the sauce 
pan. This is good in cases where the patient can take from one- 
fourth to one-half a teacupful at a time. If only to be taken 
by the spoonful the clear extract of beef is better, in which case 
the beef, after being cut up as before, is placed in a glass jar 
with no water, the cover fastened on, and the jar placed in cold 
water, which must come to a boil, and be kept at that point 
from one to two hours, to extract the juice of the meat. 

A. K. B., Modesto, Cal. 

Cream of Tomato Soup. Stew six good-sized tomatoes in 
one pint of water, strain and boil again; add one teaspoonful of 
soda, then one quart of milk, one tablespoonful of butter, a little 
flour, salt and pepper. Louise Ford, Westerlo. 



6 JouKNAL Cook Book. 

Oyster Stew. One quart oysters, oyster juice, new milk 
and water to make a quart; three eggs well beaten, one pint 
rolled crackers. Put the oysters and liquid into a stew pan, 
with pepper, a little salt and butter to suit. When nearly boil- 
ing, stir in the eggs, and turn all into a tureen in which the 
crackers have been placed. 

Rival Soup. Allow one quart or a little over of sweet milk 
to come to a boil. Eub an egg into one pint of flour till it is in 
tine crumbs, then stir slowly into the boiling milk, add salt a 
little butter and pepper. This will be found a very delicate 
soup for an invalid. 



Fish. 



Clams on Toast. Brown a sufficient quantity of bread, and 
butter each slice slightly. Boil enough clams to allow three or 
four to each slice of bread. Strain the liquor the clams are boiled 
in, and to each teacupful of " clam broth " add an equal quantity 
of hot water; thicken slightly with flour or powdered rice; pepper 
and salt to taste, and pour enough of it over the bread to soften 
the toast, then lay the clams on each cut of bread. Serve on hot 
plates. 

Clam Chowder. A small bowl of onions cut very fine, a 
large bowl of potatoes sliced very thin, four slices of fat pork cut 
in small pieces, three pints of hard clams. Fry the pork in the 
kettle. Throw in the onions and cook a minute. Next add a 
layer of potatoes, then a layer of clams, then a layer of Boston 
hard crackers; next sprinkle in a little salt and jiepper and dredge 
a thick layer of flour. Eepeat until all the ingredients are used; 
then pour over enough boiling water to Just cover the chowder 
and add the clam juice. Boil until the potatoes are done and 
just before serving pour one pint of cold milk over it. 



Journal Cook Book. 7 

To fry Oysters and Fresh Fish. Have well heated equal 
parts of butter and lard. Roll a handful of crackers, mix with 
them a little salt and pepper; drain oysters; then dip them into 
beaten egg; then roll tliem in the crackers and fry to a light 
brown. Fish should be washed and dried on a cloth then dip- 
ped in beaten egg and rolled in crackers the same as oysters. 
They require more salt and pepper. 

Helen Blood, West Fort Ann. 

Scalloped Salmon. Take a pudding dish, line it with rolled 
crackers, then a layer of canned salmon, season with salt and 
pepi^er and a piece of butter. Make another layer of crackers, 
then salmon and so on having at the top a layer of crackers. 
Season, fill the dish with milk so that all is well moistened. 
Bake a nice brown. Mks. S. H. Arnold, Schuyler Falls. 

Fish Turbot. Pick your fish very fine, removing all bone 
and skin; add salt and a dash of cayenne pepper. Rub together 
two small tablespoons flour, two tablespoons butter, add one 
tablespoon minced onions, one tablespoon minced parsley, one- 
half pint sweet milk. Cook till it begins to thicken, stirring it 
until there are no lumps. Beat one egg, add to it one teasj)oori 
cold water, then stir in the dressing; butter a baking dish, put 
in a layer of fish, then dressing and so on till all is used. Have 
a layer of dressing come last. Cover with fine cracker crumbs 
and bits of butter. Bake until a light brown. 

Deviled Clams. Chop and drain twenty-five small clams. 
Put a half pint of milk on to boil. Rub together one large 
tablespoonf ul of butter and two even tablespoonfuls of flour; add 
to the boiling milk; stir until it becomes thick and smooth; take 
from the fire and add the beaten yolks of two eggs; add the 
clams, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, half teaspoonful of 
salt, a grain of cayenne pepper and a saltspoonful of white pepper. 
If you like a half teaspoonful of onion juice may be added also. 
Mix all these together and put into nicely cleaned clam shells. 
Sprinkle lightly with stale bread crumbs, and brown quickly in 
a very hot oven. 



8 Journal Cook Book. 

Clam Fritters. Two eggs, one cup of sweet milk, one tea- 
spoon of baking powder, one and a half cups of flour, twenty- 
five medium sized clams, stirred in a batter. Fry in hot lard. 

How to bake Fish. Take two good-sized fish, clean and 
wipe well with a cloth wet in salted water, keep the breasts as 
whole as possible. Strew salt over them and leave them on a 
board a few hours, then wipe the salt from them cut off the 
heads and fins, cut the skin through down the back and take 
off neatly, being careful to keep the fish whole. Beat the yolks 
of three eggs, dip the fish in the egg, have ready some bread 
crumbs, mixed with pepper and chopped parsley. Roll the fish 
in the crumbs, and stuff the heads and breasts with oysters, 
chopped not too fine and bread crumbs mixed with a little egg. 
Butter a dripping-pan. Lay the fish upon it and bake until 
done. Put pieces of butter over them and be sure and not burn. 
Serve with sauce, made with a pint of veal gravy, the same of 
cream, mix two tablespoons of flour in a little of the cream cold, 
and boil until smooth. Add a blade of mace, a little nutmeg, 
if you like, and salt; some prefer an onion. Lay the heads of 
the fish at each end of the dish and garnish with lemons. 

A. K. C, Vaughns. 

Escaloped Oysters. In the bottom of your dish put a 
layer of bread or cr;icker crumbs, next a layer of oysters with 
bits of butter, pepper and salt. Alternate these layers until the 
dish is full with a layer of crumbs on top. Beat one egg. Stir 
with a quart of milk and pour over. Cover and bake about an 
hour. Remove cover and brown. When done it will rise up 
like a loaf of bread. Mrs. R. Sutherland, Exeter. 



Meats. 



Frogs' Legs. The legs are skinned and thrown in boiling 
water to blanch for five minutes, then throw them in cold water 



Journal Cook Book. 9 

for ten minutes, and they are ready to cook. Dry them with a 
soft towel. You can either fry or stew them. To fry them sea- 
son with salt, pepper, and dredge thickly with flour. Fry to a 
golden brown in butter; serve with cream sauce poured around 
them; garnish with fried parsley. To stew them put a table- 
spoonful of butter in a frying-pan; when brown, add a table- 
spoonful of flour; mix until smooth; then add a half pint of 
stock; stir continually until it boils; add a teaspoonful of salt, a 
salt-spoon of pepper; throw in the legs and simmer ten minutes; 
take from the fire; add the beateti yolk of one egg and serve at 
once. 

Pickling Hams. Ten pounds Turk's island salt, eight gal- 
lons water, four pounds sugar, one-quarter pound saltpetre for 
one hundred pounds meat. Boil and skim; when cold turn on 
your hams. Sprinkle a little salt in bottom of cask. Let them 
be in six weeks. 

For curing Hams, Six gallons of water, nine pounds of 
salt, three ounces saltpetre, one quart of molasses, three pounds 
of brown sugar, two ounces of saleratus, leave the hams in this 
pickle six or eight weeks, then smoke them. 

Mrs. L. B. S., Esperance. 

To cook Chickens. Cut the chicken put it in a pan, cover 
it over with water, let it stew as usual and when done make a 
thickening of cream and flour, add a piece of butter and pepper 
and salt, have made short cake, like piecrust, roll thin and cut 
iu small squares; the crust should be laid on a dish and the 
chicken gravy put over while both are hot. Mrs. C. R. 

Fried Chicken. Take young chickens, skin them, cut open 
on the back, dress nicely, wash thoroughly, and with a meat 
pounder break breast bone; and any other bones that may hinder 
its laying flat. Take a stew pan or spider, put in a lump of 
butter the size of a small egg, as much lard, and melt. When 
melted lay in the chicken, salt, and pepper to taste, pour on 
water enough to boil twenty minutes and cover close. When 



10 Journal Cook Book. 

the water is boiled out fry to a light brown, and send to the table 
hot, with hot baked potatoes. Mrs. F. W. Myers, Mohawk. 

Potted Meat. Take six pounds of fresh beef not very fat, 
and four pig's feet; boil until well done and the bones have 
dropped out of the feet. The water will be quite boiled down 
and is to be saved. Chop the meat fine, removing any bits of 
gristle or bone, season with pepper and salt, and if liked a tea- 
spoonful of celery; salt can be added. Eetain all in the liquor 
in the kettle and stir well together. Then press into dishes and 
leave to cool. It is a very pleasant relish for supper. 

H. L. C., Saratoga. 

Meat Balls or Croquettes. Cold mashed or boiled po- 
tatoes with cold meat, one egg, one finely minced onion, pepper 
and salt, rolled in flour and fried in hot lard. 

Lee, Duluth, Minn. 

Meat Croquettes. Mince turkey, chicken, veal or any 
other cold meat, as fine as possible, season with pepper and salt, 
one tablespoonful of butter, two of flour, half a tumbler of 
cream, mix, bringing to a boil, and stir through the chopped 
meat, when cold take a spoonful of the mixture, dip in an egg 
and cracker crumbs, after making into balls or small rolls with 
the hands. Fry in hot lard deep enough to cover them. 

Spiced Veal. Three pounds veal chopped fine, two eggs 
small lump butter, three rolled soda crackers, two or three tea- 
spoonfuls of salt, one teaspoonf ul pepper, half teaspoonf ul cloves, 
two or three teaspoonfuls milk, form into loaf and bake. To be 
eaten cold. 

Beef Omelet. Three pounds of rare beef out of the round, 
two tablespoonfuls butter, two or three eggs, beaten; one cup 
of sweet milk, twelve large crackers rolled fine, two teaspoon- 
fuls of salt, one of pepper; mix well; pack in a greased pan. 
Bake brown. Mrs. R. A. Porter, Bluff Point. 



JouRNTAL Cook Book. 11 

Mince Meat. Three bowls of meat, five bowls of apples, 
one bowl of molasses, one bowl of boiled cider, one bowl of cider, 
one bowl of suet or butter, two bowls of raisins, four bowls of 
sugar, one bottle of brandy, two tablspoons of cinnamon, two of 
cloves and nutmeg, one of black pepper and salt. Grate in the 
outside of three lemons and squeeze in the juice. Add all but 
the meat and spices, boil until the raisins are tender and pour 
on the meat and spices. Add the brandy after it is cold. 

Mrs. N. M. Empie, Ames. 

Veal Loaf. Three pounds veal chopped fine, or pnt through 
a sausage cutter, one-half pound salt pork chopped, two eggs, 
salt and pepper, mix all together and shape into a loaf. Baste 
with the drippings and bake one and one-half hours in a hot 
oven. Put in a little water to start with. 

Mrs. W. J. S., North Argyle. 

Beef Steak for Lunch. Procure a round of steak, one- 
half inch in thickness, pound and season as for broiling, then 
make a dressing of bread crumbs seasoned as you would for stuff- 
ing a fowl, and spread over the steak; then roll it up and tie 
with cords and jDlace in a steamer and steam till very tender. 
When cold slice as you would rolled jelly cake. It is also nice to 
eat warm by placing in the oven to brown. 

Mrs. W. C. White, North Hebron. 

To make tough steak tender. Take a teaspoon salad 
oil, two teaspoons vinegar, a little cayenne pepjjer. Lay the 
steak upon it and let it remain one hour, then turn over and let 
it lie an hour. " Mollie." 



Vegetables. 



Potato Croquettes. Season mashed potatoes with salt, 
pepper and butter enough to make them rich, roll into balls and 



12 Journal Cook Book. 

dip into beaten eggs in which is placed minced parsley, next roll 
in fine bread or cracker crnmbs and fry in hot bntter or lard. 

French Fried Potatoes. Pare, then qnarter, then cut in 
eights. Sift flour over them. After laying them on a dry cloth, 
fry them in very hot lard from seven to ten minutes. This is 
the quickest way of cooking potatoes if one is in a hurry. 

Lee, Duluth, Minn. 

Corn Fritters. Scrape off the kernels from the cobs of boiled 
corn left over from dinner. Beat up three eggs, a cupful of 
sweet milk, put in the corn and stir in enough flour to make a 
not very stiff batter. Fry in butter or lard and serve hot with 
butter and powdered sugar. "Aunt Martha" of Vermont. 

To can Corn. Cut corn from cobs, not too close; put in 
can, push it in very close; I use the small end of a potato 
masher to get it in close enough; when full put the top on can, 
and tighten it as much as you can with your thumb and finger; 
then put in a kettle of cold water, and boil three hours; take 
from water, tighten as much as you can, put in a dark place; be 
sure to have something in the bottom of the kettle, so that the 
can will not sit flat on the bottom; it may break in that case; 
you can can one at a time or a half a dozen. If you have a great 
many cans use the boiler instead of the kettle. 

Mrs. Belle Doane, Cambridge. 

Delicious Slaw. Take one-half head of cabbage, cut fine, 
one large head of celery, cut fine, one hard boiled egg, two ounces 
of grated horse-radish, two teaspoons dry mustard, mix with 
cold vinegar, pepper, and salt. 

Potato Rolls. Five large potatoes mashed while warm, add 
one quart of flour, salt to season, one cup of milk, stir till light, 
add two spoons of baking powder, let stand two hours, after 
making into rolls, then bake. 

Escaloped Tomatoes. Prepare in the same manner, omit- 
ting milk and adding a little sugar. Cold meats, left over, 



Journal Cook Book. 13 

hashed and prepared same as oysters, use up the fragments and 
make a j)reseu table dish. 

To cook Cabbage. Cut cabbage very fine; put it on to cook 
with two tablespoons of sugar, a little salt, and water enough to 
cook tender. When done, add one-third cup of good vinegar, a 
small piece of butter, and one cup of sweet cream, stir well, let 
all heat through but not boil. A. C. W., Charlotteville. 

Creamed Green Corn. Take twelve ears of green corn, 
grated, and one teacupful of sweet cream, one teaspoonful of 
salt, one teaspoonful of sugar, stir these together and put into a 
baking dish; then put small jDieces of butter over the top and 
bake one hour in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. H. T., Rensselaerville. 

Canned Tomatoes. Ten pounds of peeled ripe tomatoes, 
three pounds sugar, one pint vinegar, cooked down to suit. 

M. M., Knox. 

Stewed Mushrooms. Put the mushrooms in a small sauce- 
pan with pepper and salt, a bit of butter and a spoonful or two 
of the gravy of roast meat or cream; shake them about over the 
fire, and when they boil they are done; then pour them over the 
hot broiled steak, on a hot dish, and serve at once. 

Dressing for Cabbage. One cup of vinegar, two eggs, a 
small piece of butter, one tablespoonful each of salt, pepper and 
sugar. Heat the butter and vinegar together, then add the rest 
well beaten and let it just boil. Put it hot on the cabbage when 
chopped fine, and stir u]). Then turn on a cup of sweet cream. 

Mrs. J. T., Bloom ville. 

Baked Beans. One quart beans; soak over night in cold 
water; in the morning boil in fresh water until tender, with a 
small piece of salt pork, and just water enough to cook them, 
then add three tablespoonfuls of good molasses and one large tea- 
spoonful of ground mustard, stirring it well in; bake a light 
brown. 



14 Journal Cook Book. 



Puddings. 



Potato Pudding. One large potato grated, oue-quarter of 
a pound of suet chopped fine, one cup of molasses, one cup of 
sugar, one cup of water or milk, one teaspoonful of soda, one 
teaspoonful of cream tartar, two cups fruit, and a little salt, 
and spice to suit taste, thicken with flour as you would cake; 
put in cups or moulds, and steam one hour. To be eaten with 
sauce. M. K., Dewitt. 

Mock Suet Pudding. Two cups chopped bread, half a cup 
molasses, half a cup brown sugar, one cup sweet milk, one egg, 
half a teaspoonful soda dissolved in half cup cold water, half 
teaspoonful ground cloves, one cup raisins chopped and dredged 
with flour, currants and citron if desired, one teaspoonful of 
cinnamon, a good pinch of salt and mace. Steam two hours. 
Eaten with sauce. Mrs. K. L. Daulton, Dalton, Mass. 

Kiss Pudding. One quart of milk, three tablespoonfuls of 
corn starch, the yolks of four eggs, one-half cup of sugar and a 
little salt. Place part of milk with salt aud sugar on the stove 
and boil. Dissolve the corn starch in the rest of the milk and 
stir into the boiling milk, also add the yolks of the eggs. 
Frosting : The beaten whites of four eggs with one-half cup of 
sugar, flavored with lemon. Cover the pudding and nicely 
brown. Save a little frosting to moisten the top; then put 
grated cocoanut over it to give it the appearance of snowflakes. 
]\Irs. Ogden Wheelek, Fayette. 

Tippecanoe Pudding. Four eggs, two teacups sugar, one 
quart milk, five tablespoons flour. Beat the sugar, yolks of 
eggs and flour into a cup of milk, aud pour into remainder of 
the milk when scalding hot. Whip whites of the eggs to a stiff 
froth and add half cup sugar. Spread frosting on custard and 
put into oven until it becomes a light brown. 

Mrs. 0. B. Allen, East Chatham. 



JouKNAL Cook Book. 15 

Grape Pudding. One cup of grapes, one cup of molasses, 
one teaspoon ful of saleratns, flour enough to stiffen, bake 
quickly, serve with sauce. Caddie, Schoclack Landing. 

Corn Starch Pudding. Three tablespoonfuls corn starch 
dissolved in a little cold water, one pint boiling water, half a cup 
sugar, a pinch of salt. Let cook while beating the whites of 
two eggs to a stiff froth. Then stir them in quickly and pour 
in cups that have been wet, to cool. For sauce take the yolks 
of the two eggs, one pint of milk, half cup sugar and flavor to 
taste. To be eaten cold. A Subscriber, Sandy Hill. 

Cracker Pudding. Pour one quart of boiling milk over 
six crackers; let stand until very soft; add four eggs (rei^erving 
two whites for meringue), one cuj) raisins, salt, vanilla. Bake, 
and when done add the meringue, made with the two whites of 
eggs and four tablespoonfuls of sugar. Set in oven to brown. 

Mrs H. M., Plattsburgh. 

Italian Pudding. Two eggs, their weight in butter and 
granulated sugar. Beat all thoroughly. Beat eggs first, add 
butter and sugar. Line a dish with puff paste, and lay peaches 
sliced in the dish and pour the mixture over the fruit. Bake 
long enough to cook the eggs. If desired add a meringue. 
This is best when cold. Vera, Philadelphia. 

Dark Pudding. Two cups of flour, cup of sweet milk, half 
a cup of molasses, half a cup of butter, one cup raisins, one egg, 
one spoonful of soda. Steam two hours. Eat with the follow- 
ing sauce: One cup sugar, half cup butter, one cup boiling water 
one spoonful vanilla. 

Mrs. H. E. Mattisoi^, Colorado Spa, Colorado. 

Cottage Pudding. Two tablespoonfuls of sugar, two and 
one-half tablespoonfuls of butter, one egg, one cup of milk, one 
pint of flour, two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, one of soda; bake 
or steam. 



16 Journal Cook Book. 

Mountain Dew Pudding. One pint of milk, yolks of 
two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of cocoanut, half a cap of rolled 
cracker crumbs, four tablespoonfuls of sugar. Bake one-half 
hour and then make a frosting of the whites of two eggs, with 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar, after which put in the oven to 
brown. Mrs. E. B. Perley, Antwerp. 

Delmonico Pudding. Take a quart of milk, three table- 
spoonfuls corn starch. Mix the starch with a little cold milk 
and stir into the milk, just before boiling. Let it boil three 
minutes or long enough to cook. Take five eggs, separate the 
whites, beat the yolks with six tablespoons sugar and stir into 
the milk. Let it boil one minute, flavor with vanilla; put into 
buttered dish and bake sufficiently to hold a frosting made of 
the whites of the eggs beaten and three-quarters of a cup of 
sugar. Young Cook, Morley. 

Plum Pudding. One pint sweet milk, one pound raisins, 
one pound currants, six ounces suet, six eggs. Put in sack and 
put in kettle of boiling water. Boil six hours. Serve with sauce. 
Mrs. Warren Town, Plainville. 

Company Pudding. One and one-half cups of graham 
flour, one cnp of molasses, one cup of milk, one cup of chopped 
raisins, one teaspoon of soda, one tablespoon of sugar, pinch of 
salt, steam three hours. Sauce for same: Two-thirds cup of 
sugar, one tablespoon butter and flour, thoroughly mixed with 
the sugar. Pour boiling water over until the consistency of 
cream and flavor to taste. 

Mrs. George H. Eipley, Poultney, Vt. 

Honey Comb Pudding. Three cups of flour, one of beef 
suet, one of milk, one of molasses, one of raisins, currants or 
whortleberries, one teaspoon of soda; salt. Boil or steam three 
hours. Mrs. Geo. M. Sweet, Glens Falls. 

Puff Pudding. Yolks of three eggs, two tablespoonfuls of 
flour, two teaspoonfuls sugar, two tables^ioonfuls butter creamed 



Journal Cook Book. 17 

together, one pint sweet milk added and cooked to custard on 
top of stove. Then add a pinch of salt and nutmeg, and whites 
of three eggs beaten to stiff froth, and bake in quick oven fif- 
teen minutes. 

Lemon Dumplings. Take one quart of flour, one cup milk, 

shortening the size of a walnut, two teaspoons baking powder. 
Sauce for above: one lemon, one cup sugar, one cup molasses, 
one-half cup butter, one cup warm water. Let it come to a 
boil and put in dumplings and boil. 

Anka W. Livingstone, Middletown. 

Graham Pudding. One and a half cups tine graham flour, 
half cuji molasses, half cup butter, half cup milk, half teaspoon- 
ful soda, one egg, one teaspoonful of cloves, one teaspoonful of 
cinnamon, half teaspoonful nutmeg; one teacup of raisins will 
do, two are better; steam two hours. 

"A Housekeeper," Groom's Corners. 

Baked Pudding. Two eggs, one cup sugar, butter size of 
an egg, three-fourths cup sour milk, three-fourths cup corn 
meal, half cup plums dried in sugar, or fresh raisins chopped, 
one teaspoon soda. Stir in flour and bake as cake. Serve hot 
with pudding sauce. "John's Wife," Fultonville, N. Y. 

Steamed Rice Pudding. Put half a cup of rice, and two 
quarts of milk into a five-quart pan, and set over a kettle of boil- 
ing water and steam two hours. When done sweeten to taste, 
add the yolks of four eggs. Flavor with the grated rind of an 
orange, or vanilla. This makes about a quart when done. Put 
the whites of eggs on the top and brown. This is nice for Sun- 
days as it is to be eaten cold and can be prepared on Saturday. 

Mary J. M., Belfast. 

Minute Pudding. One quart of sweet milk, one egg, six 
tablespoonfuls of flour; take some of the cold milk and stir with 
the flour and egg; beat the egg first, put the milk on the stove 
to boil, as soon as it boils stir in the egg, and flour, after being 
well mixed, then stir briskly a few minutes, fill a large tin pan 



18 Journal Cook Book. 

part full of cold water; take some teacups, just dip them in the 
water, theu fill with pudding, then set them in the pan of water, 
until you are ready to serve them, then turn out each one in a 
saucer, mix some sweet cream and nice sugar, season with lemon 
extract or nutmeg. Lay a small teaspoon of jelly on top if you 
wish. 

Steamed Pudding. Half cup each of sugar and butter, 
three eggs, one cup sweet milk, three heaping teaspoons of 
baking powder, two cups flour. Steam one hour. Serve with 
sauce. 

Favorite Pudding, One pint of flour, one teacup of milk, 
one egg, half a cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of soda, two tea- 
spoonfuls of cream tartar, salt. Sauce, one third cream, two- 
thirds milk. Sweeten and flavor with vanilla. 

" Sarah " of Gravesville. 

Tapioca Pudding. One quart milk, four tablespoonfuls 
tapioca, the yolks of four eggs, one and one-half cups sugar. 
Soak the tapioca in some cold water about an hour. Stir the 
eggs, sugar and tapioca in the milk and boil till like soft custard. 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a froth with a tablespoonful of sugar 
to each egg. Drop this on top of custard and set it in the oven 
till it is a light brown. 

Date Pudding. Six ounces of suet chopped fine, six ounces 
of bread crumbs, six ounces of sugar, three eggs, two teaspoon- 
fuls of cinnamon, one wine glass half full of water; three-quar- 
ters of a pound of stoned dates. Beat the sugar and dates together, 
then stir in the other ingredients. Steam for two hours. Serve 
with sauce made in this way; the yolks of three eggs, pulverized 
sugar enough to thicken them, a tablespoonful of water, the 
whites of three eggs beaten to a stift' froth, and stirred in last. 

Snow Pudding. Dissolve one-third box of gelatine (half 
ounce) in one pint boiling water with the juice of two lemons. 
Add one cup sugar and let it cool. Take the whites of two eggs. 



Journal Cook Book. 19 

beat to a stiff froth with a very little sugar. Beat this with the 
gelatine until all is white, and put into a mold when jellied. 
Take it out on a large dish! Take one-half pint of sweet cream, 
quite thick and cold. Whip to a stiff froth. Add three table- 
spoonfuls of fine sugar, and a teaspoonful of vanilla. Place 
in large spoonfuls about the jelly and set in a cold place till 
ready to serve. Mrs. Oscar E. Allen, East Line. 

Suet Pudding. One cup sugar, one cup molasses, one cup 
buttermilk, two cups flour, half pound suet, half pound raisins, 
half pound currants, one quart bread crumbs, one tablespoon 
soda, one tables^joon cinnamon, one tablespoon cloves. Boil 
three hours. J, G. T. M., Central Bridge. 

Russe Cream. Half box gelatine soaked in a little water 
half an hour; one quart milk, one and one-third cups sugar, 
four eggs. Mix sugar, milk, yolks of eggs and gelatine together. 
Put in a pail set in a kettle of boiling water, and boil twenty 
minutes. Beat whites of eggs stiff and stir in after taking off 
the fire. Flavor with vanilla and pour into moulds. Serve 
with whipjjed cream and sponge cake. 

Mrs. Wm. Sedgwick, Hudson. 

Boiled Rice with Apple Sauce. Boil the rice in water 
with a pinch of salt, till done, the best way to boil it is to set 
the rice dish in a kettle of boiling water. Have apple sauce 
ready and be sure to keep it hot till served. In serving put a 
little butter on the rice, the apple sauce on top with nutmeg 
grated. 

Sauce for the above. One cup of sugar, one egg, one- 
third cup butter, one cup of hot water, flavor with lemon. 

Green Corn Pudding. Twelve ears of corn grated, one 
quart sweet milk, quarter of a pound of butter, four egg, well 
beaten, a quarter of a pound of sugar, season with pepper and 
salt, stir all well together and bake four hours in a well buttered 
dish. Miss M. E. A. of Durhamville, Oneida county. 



20 JouKNAL Cook Book. 

Snow Balls. Put one cup of picked rice in a farina boiler 
Avith one pint of milk and half a teaspoonful of salt; cook slowly 
until the rice entirely absorbs the milk; then turn it into small 
custard cups and stand away a few moments to mold. Turn 
out and serve with berry sauce. Mrs. D. K. of Rutland, Vt. 



Pies. 



Cream Pie. Three cups of milk, three tablespoons of corn 
starch, yolks of three eggs, one cup sugar, a little salt, put in a 
sauce pan and stir till it thickens. Take off the stove, flavor 
with lemon; bake the crust, put in the custard; beat whites to a 
froth, stir in some white sugar, pour over the top, set in the 
oven to brown lightly. Mrs. A. S. K. 

Mince Pie. Three quarts apples, one quart meat, one quart 
molasses, one quart sugar, one quart boiled cider, one quart 
water, one quart raisins, one quart currants, three nutmegs, three 
tablespoonfuls cinnamon, three tablespoonfuls cloves. 

Mrs. a. H. Bradt, Huntersland. 

Mock Mince Pie. One-half cup brown sugar, half cup 
molasses, half cup water and a half cup vinegar, a little butter, 
cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves and raisins, two crackers or two slices 
of bread crumbled fine. Bake with two crusts. 

Mrs. a. L. Egberts, West Chazy. 

Pie-Plant Pie. One cup chopped pie-plant, one cup sugar, 
one egg, one tablespoonful corn starch (beaten with the egg), 
two tablespoonfuls of water. 

Cream Pie. One cup sour cream, one cup sugar, one cup 
chopped raisins, one egg. Bake with two crusts. 

Mrs. H. N. Stimets of Potsdam. 



Journal Cook Book. 21 

Chocolate Pie. One coffee cup of milk, two tablespoonfuls 
grated chocolate, three-fourths cup sugar, yolks of three eggs. 
Heat the chocolate and milk together, add the sugar and yolks 
beaten to a cream. Flavor with vanilla. Bake with under 
crust. Take the whites to frost the top. 

Mrs. a. G. Ford, Chatham. 

Currant Pie. One cup ripe currants crushed fine, one cup 
sugar, one-half cup water, the yolks of two eggs, one tablespoon- 
ful flour. Bake with under crust, when done beat the whites 
with four tablespoonsfuls of sugar and brown. 

Mrs. E. E. Fuller, Keeseville. 

Date Pies. Bake the washed fruit quickly in two crusts, 
adding a little cold water, a sprinkle of flour and dotting with 
butter before putting on the upper crust; or stew them in a very 
little water, sift and proceed as with squash, adding milk, eggs, 
spices and salt; and baking in one crust. 

" Mrs. C." of Schenectady. 

To prepare Pumpkin for Pies. Cut a piece the desired 
size removing seeds and soft part. Then bake in the oven until 
soft. Remove the skin and mash; then add a small quantity of 
flour, eggs, a small piece of butter, sugar, one teaspoonful of 
ginger and a little salt and milk, the same of each as you would 
for boiled pumpkin to suit the taste. Then bake in a pastry. 

E. M. B., Delhi. 

Custard Pie without Crust. Beat three eggs, one quart 
milk, three tablespoons flour, two tablespoons sugar, one cup 
cocoanut. Beat well, have the baking plate well greased, and 
bake in a quick oven, M. J. VV., Schodack Centre. 

Lemon Pie. One cup sugar, one cup boiling water, one 
lemon, one heaping tablespoon corn starch, butter the size of a 
large hickory nut, two eggs, line a tin; bake the crust, grate the 
rind of lemon, peel off the white; cnt the pulp, add the corn 
starch, sugar, butter, yolks of the eggs; beat all together; stir in 



32 Journal Cook Book. 

the water; let come to a boil; fill the crust; frost with two whites; 
set back in the oven till a light brown. 

Mrs. Ed. Brown, Clyde. 

Poverty Pie. One large cup of milk, yolk of one egg, two 
tablespoons each of sugar and flour, a little salt. Cook all together 
by setting the dish in a pan of boiling water; stir until scalded, 
cool and flavor with lemon; frost with the white of the egg and 
two tablespoons sugar. Have the crust ready baked. 

Peach Pie. (Meringue). Take a teacup of boiling water, half 
teacup sugar, half teacup peach juice, two tablespoons corn 
starch, butter the size of a walnut, a pinch of salt, yolks of two 
eggs. Line your deep pie tin with good rich pastry, cover over 
the bottom with a layer of canned peaches, and then add the 
meringue and bake, adding when done the whites well beaten as 
frosting. Mrs. J. A. Guile, Syracuse. 

For Pies. Take one pound dried apples, boiled and pulped 
through a sieve, one pound white sugar, the juice and grated 
rinds of three lemons, four eggs beaten; mix, put in sauce pan, 
with one-quarter pound butter; stir half hour; let it cool. Line 
pie dish, bake without upper crust, sprinkle with sugar and 
serve cold. Mrs. H. D. Proctor, Mineville. 

Boiled Cider Pie. Two teacups of boiled cider, two teacups 
of water, one and one-half cups of bread crumbs, two eggs, one 
cup of sugar and one cup of molasses. This is sufficient for three 
pies. Make the under crust and put in the filling. For the top 
cut the crust in strips then bake. Mrs. E. B., Johnstown. 

Washington Pie. Three apples grated, the juice and grated 
rind of one lemon, one teacup of sugar, one egg. Mix together, 
let it scald over boiling water sufficient to become jelly. When 
cold put between layers of cake as plain or as rich as you please. 

M. E. T., Plattsburg. 

Thanksgiving Pie. Take four lemons, three eggs, two tea- 
cups of seeded raisins, three cups sugar, two cups of water, a 



Journal Cook Book. ^ 23 

pinch of salt. Grate the yellow part of the rind of the lemon; 
cut off the white part, remove the seeds and then chop fine with 
the raisins. Beat the eggs thoroughly, then stir the other in- 
gredients together, and bake with two crusts. This will make 
four pies. Mrs. S. A. Turner. 



Cake. 



Election Cake. Thirty quarts flour, ten pounds butter, 
fourteen pounds sugar, twelve pounds raisins, three dozen eggs, 
one pint of wine, one quart brandy, four ounces cinnamon, four 
ounces fine coriander seed, three ounces ground allspice. Wet 
the flour with milk to the consistency of bread, set over night, 
adding one quart yeast. The next morning work the butter and 
sugar together for half an hour, which will render the cake much 
lighter and whiter; when it has risen light work in every ingre- 
dient except the raisins, which work in just before it is ready 
for the oven. " Orphan," Fort Miller, ISI. Y. 

Delicate Cake. One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one 
cup of sweet milk, two cups of flour, one cup of corn starch 
mixed with the flour, whites of seven eggs, one teaspoonful of 
soda, two teaspoonfnls of cream of tartar, flavor with lemon. 
Mrs. H. B., Buena Vista, Colorado. 

Cream Sponge Cake. Two eggs, half a cup of thick sweet 
cream, one cup white sugar, one cup of flour, a little salt, one 
teaspoon baking powder, flavor with lemon or orange, this 
is very nice when fresh. 

Peach Cake. Quarter the peaches, or if very large, cut 
them into sixths. Do not pare them. Make a plain custard of 
a quart of milk and the yolks of four eggs with five ounces of 
sugar. Beat the yolks and sugar until very light, flavoring or 



24 « Journal Cook Book. 

not. Stir in the milk. Eoll out a sheet of pie paste sufficient 
to cover a flat baking tin, but turn up the edges so that the cus- 
tard will not run over. Spread the custard on the crust thus 
prepared and then add a layer of your unpared peaches. Bake 
in a moderately heated oven. Sprinkle sugar over the peaches 
and serve hot. This may be eaten with cream if desired, and is 
a very rich dish. A custard made with corn starch and two 
eggs may be substituted for the above. 

Mrs, C. F. M., Athelstan, Quebec, Canada. 

Royal Fruit Cake. Five cups flour, one and a half cups 
sugar, one cup molasses, one and a half cups butter, half cup 
sour milk, six eggs, two pounds raisins, seeded and chopped, 
one and a half pounds citron, three pounds currants, spices of all 
kinds, one teaspoonful saleratus. Bake six hours. 

Mrs. D., Garoga. 

Coffee Cake. One cup of coffee pretty strong, one pound of 
raisins chopped fine, two cups brown sugar, one cup of molasses, 
one small cup butter, two teaspoonfuls cloves, two of cinnamon, 
two eggs, one teaspoonful of saleratus. 

Mrs. p. C, Meadowdale. 

Pork Cake. One pound pork chopped fine; j^our one pint of 
boiling water over it, one pound of sugar, one pound of raisins, 
one tablespoonful of cloves, two of cinnamon, half of nutmeg, 
one cup of molasses, one tablespoonful soda. 

Mrs. a. S. K., Salem. 

Easy Cake. Three eggs, one cup sugar, one and a half 

cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, two table- 
spoonfuls of water, flavor, bake in three layers, use any filling. 

K. V. A. 0., Slingerland. 

Fig Cake. Silver part, — two cups sugar, two-thirds cup 
butter, not quite two thirds cup milk, whites of eight eggs, three 
heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder, thoroughly sifted with 
three cups flour; stir sugar and butter to a cream, add milk 



Journal Cook Book. 25 

and flour and lastly eggs. Gold Part, — one cnp sugar, three 
quarter cup butter, half a cup milk, one and a half teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder, one and a half cups flour, beaten yolks of 
seven eggs, one egg with one teaspoonful allspice and cinnamon 
to taste. Bake white in two long pie tins. Put one-half yellow 
in pie tin and put in one-quarter pound half figs, put on rest of 
gold and bake. Put together with frosting and lay yellow layer 
between two white layers. 

Mountain Cake. One pound flour, one pound sugar, one- 
half pound butter, one cup sweet milk, six eggs, one teaspoon- 
ful soda, two teaspoonfuls cream tartar, sifted with the flour. 

S. A. L., Sandlake. 

Apple Cake. Three eggs, one cup of flour, one cup of sugar, 
four tablespoonfuls sweet milk, three teaspoonfuls baking powder 
mixed in the flour, to be baked in three layers; filling, two apples, 
sour, grated, one lemon grated. Sweeten to taste. Spread 
between layers. 

Harrison Cake. One large cup of butter two-thirds full, 
one cup sour milk, two cups sugar, four eggs, one pound seeded 
raisins, one ounce of citron. Use different kinds of spices. 

Mrs, J. W. HiSEERD Coxsackie. 

Sponge Drops. Two-thirds cup sugar (heaping); two eggs, 
one cup flour (heaj^ing), two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Drop 
with tablespoon in dripping pan. Bake in quick oven. 

Young Houskeeper, Lyons. 

Layer Molasses Cake. Two cups New Orleans molasses, one 
teaspoonful of salt, a little ginger, and cinnamon, a scant half a 
cup of shortening, one cup of flour. Mix all together, then add 
one cup of sour milk, one tablespoonful of soda, and three cups 
of flour. Bake in four tins, same as jelly cake, or make half 
the quantity, bake in two tins (which is better for a small 
family) and cut in two, to make four layers. Paste to put be- 
tween layers: half a cup water, one-fourth cup of butter, half 
a cup of sugar, two tablespoonfuls corn starch, a little salt, and 



26 Journal Cook Book. 

yolk of one egg. Flavor with vanilla. The white of the egg 
will frost the top. Mrs. E. S. A., Sandy Hill. 

Puff Cake. Three eggs, two cups sugar, one teacup sweet 
milk, one teaspoonful soda, two teaspoonfuls cream tartar, one 
teacup butter, two cups flour. 

Mrs. S. a. L., South Sandlake. 

Premium Cake. Two pounds sugar, one pound butter, two 
pounds raisins, chopped; two pounds dried currants, half 
pound citron, ten eggs. Stir well. Three tablespoonfuls ex- 
tract vanilla, two nutmegs, flour to stiffen batter, one table- 
spoonful cinnamon, one teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon soda. 

John's Wife, Fultonville, N. Y. 

Dolly Varden Cake. Two cups of sugar, two-thirds cup 
butter, three eggs, one cup sweet milk, three of flour, one tea- 
spoon soda, one cream tartar. Bake two-thirds of this in white 
cake. Then what is left, add one teaspoonful cloves, cinnamon, 
nutmeg, and one cup raisins, chopped fine. Put cakes together 
with frosting. Mrs. Courts, Denmark. 

Maple Sugar Cake. Break two eggs in a cup and fill it with 
sweet milk. Take one cup sugar, two tablespoons of butter, 
two cups of flour, two teaspoons of cream tartar and one of soda 
or if baking powder is perferred two teaspoons of baking pow- 
der. Bake in layers. Emtlir Williams, Poultney, Vt. 

Cork Cake. One and one-half cups sugar, one cup of warm 
water, three eggs, two cups of flour, and two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder. M. Frink, Knox. 

Pork Fruit Cake. Half a pound pork chopped, one pound 
raisins, one pound English currants, one cup molasses, one cup 
sour milk, two cups sugar, two eggs, one teaspoonful soda, one 
teaspoonful cloves, Dne teaspoonful cinnamon, one teaspoonful 
nutmeg, five cups flour. 

Farmers' Apple Fruit Cake. Two cups dried apples, pour 
on one cup boiling water, let it stand over night, then chop up 



Journal Cook Book. 27 

fine, then put in one cup brown sugar, one cup molasses ; let it 
simmer half hour; two eggs, one cup butter, half cup sweet 
milk, one tablespoonful saleratus, one teaspoonful cloves, one 
teaspoonful cinnamon, half nutmeg; flour not too stiff; bake one 
hour. J. P. Turner, Berne. 

Confectionery Cake. Three cups sugar, one and one-half 
cups butter, one cup sweet milk, four and one-half cups flour, 
one teaspoonful soda, two of cream tartar, five eggs leaving out 
the whites of three. Mix and divide the dough. Beat in the 
whites of eggs. Flavor with lemon. Bake in two long tins. 
Spice the rest with dark spices. Add two cups fruit, raisins and 
currants. Bake in one or two tins. Spread frosting between 
the layers and on top. Mrs. M. M., Montgomery county. 

Loaf Cake. Two cups granulated sugar, half a cup butter, 
one cup sweet milk, three cnps sifted flour, three teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, and three eggs; flavor to suit. 

Mrs, N. Clute, Coxsackie. 

Sponge Cake. Take two eggs; beat to a froth; one cup of 
sugar and beat again; one cup of flour into which one teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder has been sifted; one-half cup of boiling 
water and flavor with lemon. 

Mrs. F. V. Randall, Beekmantown. 

Eggless Cake. One cup sugar, half cup butter, one cup 
sour milk, two cups flour, one cup chopped raisins, one tea- 
spoonful soda, one teaspoonful cinnamon, half teaspoonful cloves, 
half teaspoonful nutmeg. Success, Burtonville. 

Sponge Cake. One coffee cup of sugar, one coffee cup of 
flour, four eggs, salt, two tablespoonfuls of water; one-fourth 
teaspoonful of soda relieves the toughness. 

Cocoanut Cake. One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup 
butter, one-half cup sweet milk, three eggs, one-half teaspoonful 
soda, one teaspoonful cream tartai', two cups flour; bake in five 
layers like jelly cake with frosting between made of whites of 



28 Journal Cook Book. 

three eggs beaten to a froth and one cup sugar, one cup cocoanut. 
Sprinkle some of the cocoanut on the top. 

A. H. Bkadt, Huntershind. 

Custard Cake. One cup sugar, two tablespoonfuls melted 
butter, one egg, two-thirds cup sweet cream, two teaspoonfuls 
cream taj-tar mixed in, one pint sifted flour, one teaspoonful soda, 
salt. For the center, one cup sweet milk, half cup sugar, one 
teaspoonful lemon extract, one tablespoonf ul of corn starch, one 
egg. Stir egg in corn starch; let sugar and milk come to a boil, 
then stir in corn starch and egg. Mrs. E. M. Lyons. 

Eureka Molasses Cake. One cup New Orleans molasses, 
one cup sugar, one cup buttermilk, three-fourths cup butter 
(scant measure), two eggs, one teaspoonful soda, sufficient flour 
to make it of ordinary thickness. J. C. W. of Meadowdale. 

Corn Starch Cake. Two cups fine confectionery sugar, one 
cup butter, two of sifted flour, one of corn starch; dissolve in 
one cup sweet milk, the whites of seven eggs, two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, flavor with lemon. Mrs. A. M. of Clyde. 

Fruit Cake. Ten eggs, one pound of bro^vn sugar, three- 
fourths pound of butter, one pound of flour, two pounds of rais- 
ins, two pounds of currants, one pound of citron, one-fourth 
pound of almonds, one-half ounce of mace, one-half ounce of rose 
water, one ounce of allspice, one-fourth ounce of cloves, one-half 
ounce of cinnamon, one-half pint of brandy. 

Loaf Cake. Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup 
of sweet milk, three cups of wheat flour, two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder and four eggs. Half the quantity makes a nice cake. 
Mrs. Abram Sigsbee of Guilderland. 

Hattie's Favorite Cake. Two eggs, one cup of sugar, half 
cup of butter, three tablespoonfuls sweet milk, one teaspoonful 
cream tartar, half teaspoonful soda, one and two-thirds cups 
flour. Lemon or vanilla to flavor. 

Mrs. TJ. B. Oilman of North Oranville. 



Journal Cook Book. 2'J 

White Cake. Two cups of sugar, one-third cup butter, one 
cup of milk, two and one-lialf cups of ilour, two and one-half 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, whites of four eggs and Havor 
with vanilla. 

Gold Cake. Same as above, using yolks of four eggs and one 
whole egg. 

White Cream Sponge Cake. One cup of fine white sugar, 
whites of four eggs, half cup of sweet cream, one cup of flour, 
one teaspoonful of baking powder. Beat the cream and sugar 
together very light, and also the eggs ; add a little salt and 
flavor with vanilla or almonds. 

Mattie a. Southworth of Canton. 

A Wise Cheap Cake. One cup sugar, half cup butter, two 
eggs, half cup of milk, one teaspoonful cream tartar, half tea- 
spoonful soda, two and a half cups of flour, teaspoonful essence 
of lemon; beat thoroughly. Mrs. E. M. B., Kinderhook. 

Cup Cake. Four eggs, two cups sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
one cup sweet milk, one teaspoonful lemon, half nutmeg, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, four cups of flour, add chopped 
raisins if you like. Mrs. G. C. Kingsley, Fort Miller. 

Pear! Starch Cake. One jiound pulverized sugar, half pound 
butter, mix the sugar and butter with the hands till it creams, 
then add one-half pint sweet cream, whites of sixteen eggs beaten 
to a stiff froth, half pound common starch sifted, half pound 
flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder sifted in the flour, flavor 
with bitter almond. 

Chocolate Marble Cake. Light part — two eggs, half a cup 
milk, one cup sugar, two cups of flour, half a cup butter, two 
teaspoonfuls baking powder. Dark part — two squares of choco- 
late, half a cup of water, half a cup milk, one and a half cups 
brown sugar, small piece butter ; cook this until quite thick. 
When cold add one egg, and flour enough to make it as thick as 
the cake, add one teaspoonful baking powder. 



30 Journal Cook Book. 

Hot Water Sponge Cake. Four eggs, two cups granulated 
sugar, beaten together five minutes, two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, two cups flour, add one cup boiling water the last thing, 
one teaspoonful vanilla and one of lemon. 

Mrs. 0. L. B., Clinton, Iowa. 

Silver Cake. One teacup sugar, one-half cup butter, whites 
of four eggs, two-thirds cup of sweet milk, two cups flour, two 
teasjDoonfuls baking powder mixed in the flour before stirring in 
to the cake; flavor to suit the taste. 

Mrs. a. Orvis, South Starksboro, Yt. 

Molasses Cake. Three cups of best New Orleans molasses, 
one cup of lard, one heaping teaspoonful of salt, one heaping 
teaspoonful of alum, three teaspoonfuls of soda. Put salt, alum 
and soda in a cup and put boiling water on it, fill the cup with 
water, and put in about two tablespoonfuls more, use all boiling 
water. Mrs. Belle Doane of Cambridge. 

Sponge Cake. Take ten eggs, their weight in sugar, and 
weight of seven eggs in flour, beat white and yolks separately, 
then add sugar and flour and the rind and juice of one lemon, 
the last time add half a teaspoonful of soda, bake in well buttered 
tins, in a moderate oven. S. G. P., Fort Miller. 

Snow Cake. One-half teacup butter, one-half teacup sugar, 
one-half teacup flour, one-half teacup sweet milk, whites of four 
eggs, one teaspoon of baking powder. Flavor with lemon. 

Butternut Cake. Whites of four eggs beaten, two cups 
sugar, three-fourths cup butter, one cup milk, two and one-half 
cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder, one and one-half cups 
butternut meats. Flavor with nutmeg. 

Virginia, Dolgeville. 

Marble Cake. One cup of butter, two cups sugar, one-half 
cup sweet milk, two and one-half cups flour, one teaspoonful 
baking powder, four eggs; then put one-half the dough into an- 
other dish add one-half cup molasses, one cu^j chopped and 



JouR]s"AL Cook Book. 31 

seeded raisins, one cup flour, one-half teaspoonful baking pow- 
der, cloves, cinnamon, allspice and nutmeg to suit your taste. 
One-eighth pound citron, three tablespoonfuls sweet milk, then 
take a tablespoonful of the white and then dark, doing so until 
all is in the bake dish; make a large loaf; it will keep six weeks. 
Mrs. Jane Wilcox, East Chatham. 

Martha Washington Cake. One cup sugar, one cup sweet 
milk, two cups flour, one egg, two teaspoons of baking powder, 
two tablespoons of butter. It is very good with a handful of 
raisins stirred in. Ida E. Kimey, West Hebron. 



Date Cake. Beat together a slightly heaped cupful of sugar 
and a half cupful of butter; add two well beaten eggs; add one- 
half teaspoonful essence of lemon and a scrape of nutmeg; add 
one cupful sweet milk with one teaspoonful of saleratus dissolved 
in it; finally add two and one-half cupfuls of flour with two tea- 
spoonfuls of cream of tartar sifted through it. Stir gently inro 
this creamy mass a well heaped cupful of washed dates. Bake 
in a shallow pan and cut in squares. 

Jenny Lind Cake. Two and a half cups of sugar, whites of 
six eggs, one cup of sweet milk, one cup of butter, four cups of 
flour, four teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Mrs. Esther Odell of Waterloo. 

Spice Cake. One cup of brown sugar, one cup sour milk, one- 
half cup of butter, two cups of flour, one cup of raisins, one 
teaspoonful soda, one-half spoonful nutmeg, one teaspoon cin- 
namon, one-half spoonful of cloves. 

Mrs. S. J. Mills of Fort Edward. 

Jelly Cake. One cup of sugar, three eggs, three tablespoon- 
fuls of melted butter, three tablespoonfuls of sweet milk, two 
cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Bake in three 
layers; put jelly or whatever you like between the layers. 

Mrs. Phoebe Odell of Malcolm. 



33 Journal Cook Book. 

Maple Sugar Cake. One cup of sugar, half cup butter, half 
cup of sweet milk, one teaspooiiful cream tartar, half teaspoon- 
ful soda, two cups flour, whites of three eggs beaten stiff. Bake 
in three layers. For filling, one cup of maple sugar and four 
tablespoonfuls water. Boil together until it will wax; whites of 
two eggs beaten to a stiff froth, pour on the sugar boiling hot 
and stir fast. Put between layers and on top. 

Mrs. H. M. BiiESriE, West Brook. 

Molasses Pound Cake. One cup sugar, one cup sweet milk, 
one half cup molasses, one-half cup of butter, one and one-half 
teaspoonfuls soda, one-half teaspooiiful cream tartar, one table- 
sjioonful cloves, one tablespoonful cinnamon, two eggs, with or 
without fruit. 

Angel's Food. One cup of sifted flour, one and a half cups 
granulated sugar, one and a half cups cream tartar, whites often 
eggs beaten to a very stiff froth. Then add one-half the sugar 
and beat again, take the remainder of the sngar, cream tartar 
and flour and sift it five times, then pnt together and add one 
teaspoon extract of lemon. Stir up quickly and put in tin with- 
out buttering. Bake three-quarters of an hour in moderate oven. 
When done cover the cake so as to steam it. This will make one 
good sized cake. Mrs. A. M. K. of Homer. 

Scotch Cake. One pound of butter washed and beaten to a 
cream, with lialf a teaspoonful of soda, and six ounces of nice 
brown coffee sugar. Mix one teaspoonful of cream tartar in flour. 
Mix hard, roll moderately thin, cut in squares Avitli knife, and 
bake in hot oven. Mrs. E. V. Sargent, Downs, Kan. 

White Loaf Cake. Whites of three eggs, one and one-half 

cups of sugar, throe-fourths cup sweet milk, three-fourths cup 
butter, one pint flour, three teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Millport Cake. Two cups of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of 
butter, one cu]) sweet milk, whites of three eggs, two and a half 
cups flour, one tablespoonful baking powder. Dark part : two 
tablesj)oonfuls of white dough, half cup molasses, half cup 



Journal Cook Book. 33 

raisins, tliree-quarters of a cup flour, one teaspoonful baking pow- 
der, two layers of the white, and one of the dark; put together 
with or without icing, as preferred. 

Mrs. R. a. Porter, Bluff Point. 

French Cake. Three eggs, two cui)s of sugar, one cup of 
sweet milk, four tablespoonfuls of butter, three cups of flour 
and three teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Take out enough of 
this for two layers, and in the remainder mix one teaspoonful of 
cinnamon, one of cloves and one of nutmeg, one cup of raisins, 
half a cup of molasses, half cup flour and half a teaspoonful of 
baking powder. Bake in one or two layers and put together 
with frosting, placing the dark layer between the light ones. 

B. S. M., jOlaverack. 

Wedding Fruit Cake. Sixteen eggs, whites and yolks sepa- 
rate, two pounds of brown sugar, two pounds of butter, four 
pounds of raisins, two pounds of currants, one pound of citron, 
two and a half teaspoonfuls of saleratus dissolved in a half glass 
of brandy, one nutmeg, three tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, one 
and a half tablespoonfuls of cloves, two pounds of flour. Mix 
one-half of the flour with the fruit, then stir into the cake. 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth then stir into the 
cake, of the flour and froth alternately until all is in. 

Mrs. Ogden Whale, Fayette. 

Chocolate Loaf Cake. One and a half cups of yellow 
sugar, half cuji of butter, half cup of milk, two cups of flour, 
three eggs, one teaspoonful of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of cream 
tartar. Beat the sugar and butter smooth, then add the soda, 
dissolved in the milk, then the cream tartar sifted in the flour; 
last of all add the eggs well beaten; take one cup of grated choco- 
late, five tablespoonfuls of yellow sugar, not quite half a cup of 
boiling milk; cook this until smooth, then stir into the batter; 
flavor with vanilla. Jessiio Van RensSElaer, Cambridge. 

Fruit Cake. One pound brown sugar, one pound flour 
browned, eight eggs, one pound butter, five pounds raisins (chop 



34 JouRN^AL Cook Book. 

one-half of them), three pounds currants, one and a half pounds 
citron, one wine glass brandy, one wine glass wine, one teaspoon- 
ful soda dissolved in water, one small teaspoonful cloves, one 
heaping teaspoonful of cinnamon, two nutmegs ; hake three 
hours. 

Jumbles. Two cups sugar, three eggs, half cup milk, one cup 
butter, one teaspoonful soda, two teaspoonfuls cream tartar. 
Mix as soft as can be handled nicely. Wet the cookies with 
milk or yolk of an egg, sprinkle with granulated sugar, and 
bake in a moderately hot oven. Mrs. W. W., Frankfort. 

Lemon Cookies. Grated rind and juice of one large lemon, 
two cups of sugar, half cup of butter, three eggs — leave out 
the white of one; one teaspoonful of soda, a little salt, flour 
enough to roll out nicely. After the cookies are baked beat up 
the white of the egg, rub over the cookies and then sift over 
pulverized sugar. The cookies will keep for weeks and will im- 
prove with age. E. B., Oswego Falls. 

Ginger Crackers. One and a lialf teacups sugar, one teacup 
molasses, one teacup butter, two large tablespoonfuls ginger, 
three teaspoonfuls soda dissolved in a little warm water, mix 
rather hard, roll out thin, bake quick. 

Sarah A. Skinner, Fort Ann. 

Chocolate Cookies. One and one-half cups of sugar, one 
cup grated chocolate, one cup butter, one scant teaspoon soda, 
two eggs. Mix quite stiff. When baked drop teaspoon frosting 
on each cookie. Frosting: powdered sugar mixed with a small 
quantity of boiling water. 

Fried Cakes. One heaping cup of sugar, one egg, one cup 
of buttermilk, five tablespoonfuls of lard, one teaspoonful of 
soda, a little salt, nutmeg. D. R, McN" aster. Potter Centre. 

Cookies. One-half cup shortening, three eggs, one cup of 
sugar, two teaspoonfuls of good baking powder, flour, one tea- 
spoonful of extract of vanilla; roll thin. 



Journal Cook Book. 35 

Molasses Puffs. One cup of sugar, half cup of butter, one 
cup of molasses, one egg, one teaspoonful ginger, one teaspoon- 
f ul soda, one cup hot water, four cups of flour, and a pinch of 
salt. L. V. S., West Plattsburgh. 

Hermits. One and a half cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup 
chopped raisins, three eggs, one teaspoon allspice, one teaspoon 
soda. Make as thick as ginger snaps. 

Mrs. M. E., Grovenor's Corner. 

Doughnuts. Two eggs, one cup of granulated sugar, one 
and a half cups of buttermilk, half cup of cream, salt, small tea- 
spoonful soda, nutmeg; mix rather soft; cover as soon as fried. 
E. H. Spencer, New Lebanon. 

Ginger Snaps. Bring to a scald one cup molasses, stir in one 
tablespoonful soda, pour in while foaming, one small cup brown 
sugar, one egg, one tablespoonful ginger, beaten together; then 
add tablespoonful vinegar, flour enough to roll, stir in as light 
as possible. Bake in a quick oven. 

Mrs. C. H. Potter, Brushton. 



Bread, 



Brown Bread. Sift one and one-half pints of Indian meal 
and three-fourths of a pint of white wheat flour together in a 
pan; put one small cupful of molasses in a quart measure; fill the 
measure full of sour milk; turn the two mixtures together, 
gradually stirring all the time to free from lumps; dissolve one 
level tablespoonful of soda and one teaspoonful of salt in a very 
little warm water; add to the mixture, stirring thoroughly, but- 
ter a two quart mould or basin to put it in; set in the steamer, 
steam three hours, and set in the oven ten minutes before send- 
ing it to the table to dry the crust. 



30 Journal Cook Book. 

Brown Bread. One pint flour, two pints meal mixed 
thoroughly and wet with water; then one cup molasses, and one 
pint sour milk with t^aspoonful soda, salt, put in three tin tom- 
ato cans with one end melted off, and steam two hours; then set 
in oven ten or fifteen minutes to brown a little if you like. 

Mrs. C. H. Potter, Brushton. 

Brown Bread. Two cups of meal, tAvo cups of sour milk, one 
cup of flour, half cup of molasses, one teaspoonful of saleratus, 
two teas^^oonfuls of salt, steam two hours. 

Mrs. Mary L. Talcott, Middleport. 

Rye Bread. Take one quart of sweet milk two-thirds teacup 
of yeast, one small spoonful of sugar, stir stifl: with a spoon, put 
in pan and let rise. L. M. K., of New Lebanon Springs. 

Saratoga Brown Bread. Two cups Indian meal, three cups 
flour or graham meal, one cup molasses, one and one-half joints 
sour milk, one and one-half teaspoonfuls soda, one teaspoonful 
salt. Steam three hours and then brown in the oven. 

Jack Eaymo.nd, Champlain. 

Coffee Bread. To make this, take one egg, one-half of a cup 
each of sugar and yeast, one cup of milk, and enough flour for a 
sponge. Let rise until light then work in with the hand one-half 
cup of butter and flour sufficient to make a soft dough which 
can be patted into the baking-tin. After it has risen, make 
little dents with a knife over the top, put bits of butter in these, 
press them in and sprinkle over the whole sugar and cinnamon. 
Bake in a quick oven about twenty minutes, if the oven is just 
right. To be eaten cold. 

Date Bread. At night set a sponge of one quart of lukewarm 
water, three pints of common white flour, half a teacupful of 
potato yeast, and a teaspoonful of salt. Set in a warm place to 
rise, and in the morning add one-half cupful each of molasses 
and sugar and about five cupfuls of whole wheat flour. This 
recipe makes three good-sized loaves, and one or two may be 
reserved for plain bread if you wish; but for each loaf of date 



JouENAL Cook Book. 37 

bread stir in a pint (slightly heaped) of washed dates. Eise 
again and bake in an oven not too hot at first, but increasing in 
fervor toward the last of the baking. Three-quarters of an hour 
should produce loaves of a rich brown, moist and tender through- 
out. Do not cut the loaves for at least twelve hours. 



Yeast. 



Soft Yeast. Grate four good sized potatoes raw, put in tin 
or porcelain, steep one handful of hops in one pint of water, 
when scalding hot strain on potatoes, set on stove, stirring con- 
stantly so as not to stick to the dish until the potatoes are cooked 
thick, add two tablespoonfuls of salt, two of sugar, when cool 
add one-half teacup soft yeast; let rise, stir down, put in glass 
or earthen jar, keep in a cool place. This will keep well six 
weeks in cool weather. Use one-half cup for three or four loaves, 
In making the sponge stir in the yeast thoroughly. 

Mrs. B. , of Moravia. 

Yeast. Four large boiled potatoes mashed, one cup sugar, 
half a cup salt, two teaspoonfuls of ginger stirred with the pota- 
toes and two quarts hot water poured over the mixture; a hand- 
ful of loose hops steeped in the water is sufficient; leave the yeast 
in a pan for two days, then bottle. 

Wheat Bread. When the potatoes are cooked for dinner take 
out the medium sized ones, if patent flour is to be used, if not 
take more potatoes; mash them and pour a little water on them 
so they will not be lumpy; leave them until evening, then pour 
in two quarts lukewarm water, one cup of the yeast; three table- 
spoonfuls of salt, a piece of butter the size of a small hen's egg 
and stir thick with flour; in the morning mix stiff with flour for 
twenty minutes or more; let rise again, then make into loaves 



38 Journal Cook Book. 

and let it be in a warm room until the loaves are about double 
the size they were when put into the tins; put into a very hot 
oven and let it cool off gradually; bake an hour or a little more; 
if the oven is hot at first the bread does not get dried up baking, 
and keeps moist longer. When the bread is rising do not put 
it on the stove or where it will get very warm. 



Gems, Biscuits, Shortcakes, etc. 



Buckwheat Short Cake. One and a half cups of sweet 
milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder (scant), one teaspoon- 
ful salt, buckwheat flour enough to make a batter, little thicker 
than for griddle cakes. Bake the same as johnny cake, eat with 
butter or gravy. Such cakes are delicious and come in at the 
right time before and after the season for griddle cakes. 

Mrs. S. 0. C, Sandy Hill. 

Ginger Bread Patties. Two tablespoons melted butter, one 
cup molasses stirred together, add one teaspoonful ginger, and 
a pinch of salt, one teaspoonful saleratus in a cup of hot water; 
let it cool a little before stirring in the mixture; three cups of 
flour — bake in patty pans. C. C. M., Adams. 

Breakfast Gems. Take one pint of warm sweet milk, one 
egg, one yeast cake, two tablespoons sugar, butter the size of an 
egg, half teaspoon soda, a little salt, four cups flour. Put all 
together and let rise over night. In the morning dip into gem 
pans. Bake twenty minutes. 

Mrs. William E. Bradt, Burnt Hills. 

Popovers or Laplanders. Four beaten eggs, four cups of 
flour, four cups milk, butter size of butternut, a little salt; beat 
well. Put in hot gem pans and bake in a hot oven fifteen or 
twenty minutes. Ruth, Moira. 



Journal Cook Book. 39 

Graham Puffs. One egg, two- thirds of a cnp of sugar, one 
pint of sweet milk, one large spoonful of butter, one cup of wheat 
flour, two cups of graham flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. A pinch of salt. M, L. B., Flat Brook. 

Barrington Rusk. One cup sugar, one cup flour, one cup 
sweet milk, one cup yeast. Rub the sugar and flour together be- 
fore adding the milk, which prevents lumps. When light add 
half cup of sugar and half cup butter rubbed together and two 
eggs, reserving the white of one. Pour this mixture into a pan 
of sifted flour and mix as bread, adding a small teaspoonful of 
saleratus dissolved in a little water. Let this rise and then mold 
into biscuits. Beat the reserved white to a stiff froth with two 
or three tablespoonfuls of sugar and spread over the tops just 
before putting in the oven to bake. To make the yeast, dissolve 
half a yeast cake in a cupful of warm water and add flour enough 
to make a stiff batter. Let it rise about four hours before setting 
the sponge for rusk. Mrs. J. D. Park, Red Rock. 

Tea Rolls. One pint scalded milk; let it cool, and add two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, two of lard, two of yeast, a little salt; 
cut round and spread with butter, and roll. In the winter sponge 
at night; in the summer at morning. 

Rice Griddle Cakes. Cook some rice until perfectly soft, 
drain it dry, and while hot, mash with a spoon until the grains 
are well broken up. Add two eggs and a pint of milk to each 
cup of rice, half a teaspoonful of salt, and flour enough through 
which you have sifted a heaping teaspoonful of baking powder. 
Fry two cups, and add more if necessary. 

Graham Gems. One egg, one-half cup of brown sugar, two 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter, one pint of graham flour with 
three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one-half pint of graham 
and wheat flour mixed, a pinch of salt, milk enough to make it 
the thickness of ordinary cake dough. Bake fifteen or twenty 
minutes. Ella E. Baker, Fort Ann. 



40 Journal Cook Book. 

Ham Gems. To one part ham chopped add two parts bread 
crumbs. Wet with milk, put this batter in gem pans and break 
an egg over each and brown. M. 0. M., West Lebanon. 

Corn Fritters. To one pint of green corn, add one egg, one 
tablespoon of butter, one-half cup flour, one-fourth teaspoon 
baking powder, pepper and salt to taste; add sweet milk to make 
a stiff batter, mix thoroughly, and fry in hot lard. 

H. E. H., Charlton. 

German Toast. Cut into slices a loaf of baker's bread; soak 
them ten or fifteen minutes in one pint of milk with two eggs 
and a little salt. Fry in equal parts of lard and butter until a 
light brown on both sides. Serve with sauce- 
Raised Biscuit. Scald one quart of milk. In this while 
hot, put a piece of butter the size of an egg; when cool, add one 
egg and a teacup of yeast; thicken with sifted flour to a batter 
as thick as muffin batter; let rise, mold, let rise again, bake 
twenty minutes. If soured, use one-half teaspoonful of soda. 
Miss Anna E. Simmons, Chatham. 

Morning Glory Gems. One egg, two tablespoonfuls melted 
butter, one cup sweet milk, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, two 
cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Bake fifteen 
minutes in gem tins. Mrs. B. C. F. P., Sandy Hill. 

Corn Meal Loaf. One pint of sweet milk, two pints of sour 
milk, three pints of Indian meal, one pint of flour, one cup of 
molasses, one tablespoonl'ul of salt, one tablespoonful soda. 
Bake three hours slowly. M.J. B,, Lysauder. 

Raised Biscuits. Take two cups milk, a little flour, and a 
teaspoonful yeast; set to rise over night. In the morning add 
one cup of milk, three-quarters cup lard, one tablespoonful su- 
gar, one small teaspoonful soda, the white of one egg and flour 
to stiffen. Let rise until light. Mould into biscuits and let it 
rise again. This recipe makes fifty biscuits. 



Journal Cook Book. 41 

Spanish Buns. One cup of sugar, one large tablespoonful 
butter, half a cup sweet milk, two eggs beat separately, one 
large tablespoonful cinnamon, one cup flour, one teaspoonful 
baking powder. Mrs. D. Nash, of Denmark, Lewis Co. 

Hominy Muffins. Take two cups of fine cold boiled hominy, 
beat it smooth; then add three teaspoons of white sugar, two 
teaspoons of salt, one-half cup of melted butter; stir in three 
cups of sour milk, then add throe eggs, one teaspoon of soda dis- 
solved in a very little hot water; one large cup of flour. Bake 
quickly. Mrs. F. B. V., Fultonville. 

Crumpets. Mix together thoroughly while dry, one quart 
sifted flour, loosely measured, two heaping teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, and a little salt; then add two tablespoonfuls melted 
butter, and sweet milk enough to make a thin dough. Bake 
quickly in muffin rings or patty pans. 

Fruit Buscuit. One quart flour, three teasj^oonfuls baking 
powder, butter the size of an egg; mix with milk very soft and 
bake quickly, split in two or three parts; butter one of these 
parts; put on a layer of strawberries that have been a little 
crushed, with sugar; add a few spoonfuls of cream; lay on the 
other part butter and add another layer of strawberries. If the 
cake is in three parts make three layers of the berries. This is 
a good rule for any fruit cake. 

Mrs. Emily Kling, Middleburgh. 

Date Sandwiches. Cut white or graham bread in thin slices, 
trim off any hard crust that may attempt to cling round the 
edges, butter thinly, then spread on one slice the dates. They 
will need to be gently rolled and spread with a silver fork 
to make a smooth layer. The dates having accommodated 
themselves to circumstances, cover with another thin slice of the 
buttered bread and press the two sides gently together after the 
well known manner of sandwiches. Serve in a pretty china 
plate while they are newly made. 

P. C. F. P., Sandy Hill, K Y. 



42 Journal Cook Book. 

Fritters. Two cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, one egg, milk enough for a stiff batter, a little salt. 
Drop into boiling lard and fry until light brown. Eat hot with 
melted sugar or maple syrup. 

Cream Biscuit. Take two pounds of flour, tablespoonful of 
butter, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, one egg, one ounce of 
bicarbonate of soda, one-half ounce of ammonia, one-eight ounce 
of cream of tartar, one-fourth cup of water, and sufficient oil of 
lemon to flavor. Roll and cut out the biscuits, drop them for a 
minute in boiling water, take them out and put them in cold 
water; then lay them on a cloth to dry; and afterward bake them. 

Waffles. Mix thoroughly two and a half teaspoonfuls of good 
baking powder with one quart of sifted flour; while dry, add 
half cup of butter, three well-beaten eggs, and milk enough to 
make a suitable batter, fill your waffle irons about two-thirds 
full. 

Oat Meal Gems. Soak one cup of oat meal over night with 
one cup of water. In the morning sift together one cup of flour 
and two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, add a little salt, mix the 
flour and meal, wet with sweet milk to a stiff batter, drop it into 
the gem pans and bake at once. 



Eggs. 



Baked Eggs. Heat a teacupful of gravy in a tin pan, break 
in the eggs aad set in the oven to bake one minute. 

Egg Cups. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, drop in the whole 
yolks and bake until the yolks are set. 

Perfection Eggs. Bring v/ater to a boil, put in the whole 
and set on the stove hearth for ten minutes. 



Journal Cook Book. 43 

Escalloped Eggs. Take pieces that are left of ham, chop 
very fine. Add about the same quantity of bread crumbs, some 
pepper, salt and a little butter. Moisten with milk to a soft 
paste and half fill small patty pans with the mixture. Break an 
egg on top of each. Pepper, salt, and butter, and sprinkle with 
finely powered cracker crumbs. Bake ten miutues. To be eaten 
hot. A. M., North Argyle. 

Breakfast Omelet. Soak one cup of breadcrumbs overnight 
in a cup of sweet milk. In the morning beat up with three eggs, 
a little salt, and bake fifteen minutes. 



Preserves. 



Citron Preserves. Take half a pound of sugar to each pound 
of fruit; put your sugar in a preserving kettle, with enough water 
to make a syrup, then throw in what citron will cook nicely at 
each time until all are done; boil the syrup down until you have 
enough to cover the citron. Add lemon if desired. 

Mrs. C. Fort, West Chatham. 

Plum Euco. Eight pounds pitted plums, three and a half 
pounds sugar, two tablespoonfuls cinnamon, half tablespoon each 
allspice and cloves. Cook slowly two hours. Put in jars. 

Lee, Duluth, Minn. 

To can Pumpkins. Select a good pumpkin, when they are 
best, late in October. Wash the surface, take one-third of a 
large one, scoop it out and slice it. Place slices in a kettle hav- 
ing one quart of hot water. Add a tablespoonful of salt. Boil 
until you can just lift the pieces out with a fork. It should be 
boiling still while being taken up. Kemove the peel and get it 
in the cans without delay. ''John's Wife," Fultonville. 



44 Journal Cook Book. 

Peach Sauce. Select large and firm peaches; skin thin, cut 
them in halves, take out the stones, put the peaches into a bowl 
and cover every pound of peach with a half pound of fine 
white sugar; let the peaches stand one hour or more until the 
sugar has become a syrup, then pour the peach and the syrnp into 
a stew-pan, cover it, and stew until the fruit is tender. Peaches 
must not be stirred while stewing; but occasionally take the stew- 
ing pan in your hand and shake it, to prevent the stew from ad- 
hering to the pan. 

To preserve Peaches. Have ready a kettle of boiling water. 
Fill a wire basket with peaches and plunge them into the boiling 
water. In two minutes take them out and the skins will come off 
easily. Drojj the fruit into cold water to keep the color. For 
three pounds of fruit use one pound of sugar, and one pint of 
water for three pounds of sugar. When the syrup is boiling hot 
take the fruit from the water and drop it into it. Put but a few 
in at a time as they cook very quickly. Take them from the 
syrup with a silver fork, fill the jar, and fill up with strained 
syrup. Peaches are much better preserved whole as the stones 
give a rich flavor. Maky H. Kelsey, Pittsfield, Mass. 

Bordeaux Sauce. Two gallons cabbage, cut fine, one gallon 
green tomatoes sliced. Salt over night; in the morning press 
them dry; then add one gallon vinegar, one dozen onions sliced 
fine, one ounce celery seed, one ounce turmeric, one ounce all- 
spice, one ounce black pepper, half ounce cloves, half pound 
white mustard seed, one and three-quarters sugar, one of ginger; 
mix altogether and boil until tender. H. G. W., Atco, N. J. 

Spiced Peaches. Take six pounds of fruit, three of sugar, 
one quart of vinegar; make a syrup of the sugar and vinegar, 
and when boiling drop in fruit. Let it boil until tender. Flavor 
the syrup with whole cloves and cinnamon; take the fruit out 
when tender and pour the syrup over it. 

T. E. H., Detroit. 

Currant Preserves. To seven pounds of currants add five 
pounds of sugar; put on water enough to dissolve the sugar; two 



Journal Cook Book. 45 

pounds of raisins, take out seeds of four oranges; peel them 
and chop the peel very fine; boil five minutes. 

Mrs. Josephine Van Hoesen, Leeds. 

Spiced Currants. Five pounds of currants, four pounds of 
sugar, one pint of good vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of cinna- 
mon, one tablespoonful of cloves, one teaspoouful of allspice. 
Give it two hours slow boiling. Mollie, Clarkesville. 

Grape Catsup. Three pounds ripe grapes, three-quarters 
pounds sugar, one pint vinegar, one tablespoonful each of cloves, 
pepper, cinnamon and allspice. Stew the grapes in the vinegar 
until soft, then strain through a colander and add the sugar and 
spice and boil until thick. It is then ready for use. 

Trip, New Salem. 



Pickles. 



Mustard Pickles. Take one pint each of string beans, shelled 
lima beans, sweet corn, small cucumbers, from one inch and a 
half to two inches long, small green tomatoes, small onions, 
celery cut in small pieces, carrots the same, cauliflower cut small, 
six green peppers and two ripe ones sliced; cook in separate dishes 
with a little salt; when about half cooked drain, and put all to- 
gether in a large pan; mix carefully. Take two quarts of vine- 
gar, put in kettle; when boiling have ready one-half pound 
ground mustard; take one cup of the mustard ont, replace it 
with flour; wet with water, mash all the lumps, stir in the boil- 
ing vinegar, let boil slowly a few minutes, add one-quarter pound 
white mustard seed, three tablespoonfuls salt, one-quarter pound 
sugar; boil two or three minutes; pour over the mess. 

Mixed Mustard Pickles. Two small onions, sixty small 
cucumbers, three large cauliflowers, three red peppers. Stand in 
brine eight hours, scald in the brine; heat to boiling, two quarts 



46 JouKNAL Cook Book. 

vinegar, eighteen tublespoonfuls of mustard, half cup of flour, 
one ounce turmeric, one and a half cups sugar; wet all with 
vinegar, then stir it in the boiling vinegar; strain through a wire 
sieve, then put all together and bring to a boil. Can or bottle 
hot. " A Housekeeper," Groom's Corners. 

Tomato Chow Chow. Half a bushel green tomatoes, one 
dozen onions, half dozen green peppers, chop all finely together, 
sprinkle one pint of salt over it and let it stand over night; then 
drain off the brine, cover with water and vinegar and boil slowly 
one hour, then drain and pack in a jar. Have ready three pounds 
brown sugar, two tablespoonfuls cinnamon, one of allspice, one 
of cloves, one of pepper, all ground, half a cup ground mustard, 
two quarts of vinegar; heat all together boiling hot and pour 
over contents of jar and it is ready for use. 

E. F. W. A., Mooers Forks. 

French Pickle. Take one peck green tomatoes and three 
small onions chopped fine, in which stir one cup of salt, and 
allow to stand all night. In the morning drain and scald for 
twenty minutes in two quarts vinegar and water, half and half. 
Then boil for fifty minutes in two quarts strong vinegar in which 
are two pounds brown sugar, half a pound yellow mustard seed, 
two tablespoonfuls each of allspice, cinnamon, cloves and ground 
mustard, one tablespoonful ginger, one teaspoonful cayenne 
pepper. 

• Pickle Lillie. One peck of tomatoes, twelve green peppers, 
two heads of cabbage, six onions, all chopped fine. Add one 
pint of salt, cover with cold water, let it stand twenty-four 
hours, drain it off, rinse it well with cold water, drain it again, 
take equal parts water and vinegar let it simmer half an hour 
then drain it again, add one tablespoonful of cloves, one of all- 
spice two ounces of mustard one pint of molasses, one pint of 
sugar, cover with cold vinegar. 

Mrs. a. C. Kilmer, Kinderhook. 

Tomato Relish. One peck green tomatoes sliced fine, six 
onions; salt over night, drain; add one quart of vinegar, 



JouKNAL Cook Book. 47 

cook tender; add two pounds of brown sugar, one tablespoonful 
cloves, one tablespoonful cinnamon, one tablespoonful spice, 
small teacup of horse radish, green peppers to taste, one tea- 
spoonful mustard. Boil until thick. 

Mr. Josiah Shull, Ilion. 

Tomato Catsup. One bushel of tomatoes, peel and rub 
through a wire sieve, add one-half gallon vinegar, one-half pint 
salt, tablespoonful each of cloves, pepper and ginger, two table- 
spoonfuls each of allspice and cinnamon. Boil three hours, 
then bottle without straining. 

Mrs. Julia A. Browk, Comstock. 

Pickled Eggs. Boil eggs hard and then divest them of their 
shell. Put them in a jar and pour on them scalding vinegar 
flavored with ginger, white pepper and allspice. This pickle is 
very good with cold meat. Mrs. William Foster, Lodi. 

Grape Catsup. Five pounds grapes, one pint vinegar, cook 
until you can strain through sieve. To the juice add two jiounds 
sugar, one tablespoon cinnamon, half teaspoon salt, one teaspoon 
pepper, one teaspoon cloves. Cook down to two quarts. 

Chili Sauce. One dozen large ripe tomatoes, a large onion, 
cook together thoroughly then strain through a colander and 
add one cup of vinegar and boil up. Then add two tablespoou- 
fuls sugar, one of salt, one teaspoonful each pepper and cloves, 
and two of cinnamon. Simmer two hours, or until done. 

Mixed Pickles. Three hundred small cucumbers, four green 
peppers sliced fine, two large or three small heads cauliflower, 
three heads white cabbage shaved fine, nine large onions sliced, 
one large root horse-radish, one quart green beans, cut one inch 
long, and one quart green tomatoes sliced; put this mixture in a 
pretty strong brine twenty-four hours; drain three hours, then 
sprinkle in a quarter pound black and a quarter pound white 
mustard seed; also one tablespoon black ground pepper; let it 
come to a good boil in just vinegar enough to cover it, adding a 



48 Journal Cook Book. 

little alum. Drain again, and when cold, mix in a half pint 
ground mustard; cover the whole with good cider vinegar; add 
turmeric enougli to color, if you like. 



Beverages. 



Delmonico Coffee. Delmonieo's recipe for coffee is to use 
half of the best Java with half of the best Mocha freshly ground. 
Stir in eggs and shells to clear, then pour in cold water. When 
it boils five minutes it is cooked; pour in a little cold water to 
settle, then strain and serve with rich cream. Condensed milk 
can take the place of cream. 

IcedTea. Use only the best tea. Put the tea in an earthen 
or agate-ware pot and set on the back of the stove where the pot 
and contents will get thoroughly warm; then pour on water that 
has been freshly boiled, and is boiling thoroughly at the time; let 
stand on back of the stove for fifteen minutes, by which time the 
tea will be perfectly drawn. Separate the liquid from the leaves 
by pouring it off into another vessel. Place the A^essel contain- 
ing the beverage in a refrigerator until it is thoroughly^ cold. 
Iced coffee is also making headway as a summer beverage. If a 
blended Java be used, and if it be made in a coffee-pot which 
strains the coffee, you may be much pleased with your experi- 
ment. 

To make Green or Black Tea. Have ready a kettle of 
water boiling fast; pour some into the teapot, let it remain for a 
few minutes, then throw it out, measure a teaspoonful of tea for 
each two persons, put it in the pot, pour on it a gill of water, 
cover it close for five minutes, then fill the pot up and put on 
the table, have a covered pitcher of boiling water and when two 
cups of tea are poured out fill the pot up again. You will then 
keep the strength good and equal. 



Journal Cook Book. 49 

Coffee Extract. Take a qnarfcer pound fine ground coffee; 
break into this two eggs, iieed not beat eggs, simply break and 
add shells, add a little chickory (if desired). Stir well together, 
making a thick paste; then add warm water for strength re- 
quired. Let it come not quite to a boil; check boiling; let it 
come again not quite to a boil; strain through muslin. This 
can be made in any quantity and put aside in bottles. By add- 
ing boiling water in can be served in the usual way. A tea- 
spoonful of extract to a cup of hot water is considered sufficient. 
More or less may be added to suit the taste for strength. 

Mrs. H. T. S., New York City. 

To make Coffee. Take a good-sized cupful of ground coffee; 
stir white of an egg and the crushed shell into it thoroughly, 
then pour into a quart of boiling water; put on the stove and 
boil for about a quarter of an hour; then add a half cupful of 
cold water to clear it. After standing for a little while to settle 
pour into your coffee-pot, which should first be well scalded, 
and send to the table. The coffee should be stirred as it boils. 

Hop Beer. Tie a handful of hops in a bag, boil in two quarts 
of water for half an hour, pour it on a pint of molasses or one 
pound of sugar, then add cold water to make two gallons, add 
half cup of yeast, and put in a stone jug to ferment. In twenty- 
four hours it is fit for use. Flavor with ginger or wintergreen 
if preferred. W. T., Cohoes. 

Scotch Gruel. Soak half a cup of oatmeal in three pints of 
cold water for two hours, stirring frequently. Strain through a 
fine wire sieve, and put to cook in a double boiler or pan set in 
water closely covered. Stir often during the first hour. Boil 
from two to three hours slowly. Strain again and add salt to 
taste; also, a little nutmeg if liked. If too thick add boiling 
water. This gruel is particularly adapted to cases where the 
stomach is weak, and the patient can take but little nourish- 
ment. A. K. B. , Modesto, Cal. 



50 JouENAL Cook Book. 

Milk Porridge. One pint of boiling water, stir in one table- 
spoonful of tiour wet with cold milk, let it boil. Then add one 
pint of milk and boil again. Season with salt. 



Salads. 



Salmon Salad. One can fresh salmon, four bunches celery. 
Chop as for chicken salad and pour over the following; one tea- 
spoonful of mustard, twotablespoonfuls vinegar, yolks two eggs, 
salt to taste, a little pepper, mix thoroughly. 

Mrs. W. 0., Voorheesville. 

Potato Salad. Chop together six ordinary sized potatoes, 
one small onion, and the white of a boiled egg. Dressing: Mix 
together one small half cup of vinegar, two tablespoons melted 
butter, one-half teaspoon mustard, the yolks of one raw and one 
cooked egg, a little salt and pepper. Pour on dressing just be- 
fore serving. E. R., New Salem. 

Salad. Scald and peel two or three ri^je tomatoes, lay in ice 
water till very cold, then slice them. Peel and slice very thin, 
one or two small cucumbers. Put some fresh lettuce leaves in 
the salad bowl with one small, finely sliced spring onion; add the 
tomatoes and cucumbers and serve with a plain dressing. 

Chicken Salad. Breasts of two chickens chopped not too fine, 
best of three heads of celery, chopped same as chickens; two 
hard boiled eggs chopped very fine. Dressing: yolks of six eggs, 
one coffee cup of good sweet cream, three teaspoonfiils vinegar, 
a little red pepper, a little salt, stir well, put with chicken with 
a silver fork. 

Cabbage Salad. One quart cabbage, five hard-boiled eggs, 
teacupful of vinegar, teaspoonful each, salt, pepper, mustard. 



JouRisrAL Cook Book. 51 

sweet oil if you wish. Chop the cabbage and whites of the eggs 
together very fine, rub the yolks to a paste with the spices and 
oil, to which add the vinegar. Turn the preparation over the 
cabbage and whip thoroughly. Sit in a cold place until ready to 
use. 

Salad Dressing. Twelve tablespoonf uls of sweet oil or melted 
butter, twelve teaspoonfuls dry mustard, twelve eggs, thirty-six 
tablespoonfuls vinegar. Cook over hot water until thick as rich 
cream. Three tablespoonfuls of salt. 

Mrs. Wm. Sedgwick, Hudson. 



Miscellaneous Recipes. 



Icing Without Eggs. One and one-half cups sugar, one- 
half cup milk, place on the back of stove until dissolved, then 
boil about five minutes or until it forms when dropped into cold 
water (care must be taken not to cook too long). Kemove from 
stove and beat until stiff and white. Flavor to taste and use 
immediately. Miss J. M. Dkyden". 

Apple Butter. Making apple butter is almost one of the lost 
arts, but old experienced farmers say that it is made of apples 
pared, cored, cut and boiled in sweet cider till the whole is a 
dark, rich pulp and the cider is reduced one-half. No sugar is 
needed, for the fruit furnishes its own sweetness. Half the apples 
may be sour and half sweet, or all sweet, as one likes. It takes 
nearly two gallons of cider to make one of apple butter and spices 
are added or not, to taste. If it should be spiced the rule is one 
tablespoonful of cinnamon and one-third of a teaspoonful of 
ground cloves to each gallon of apple butter, added when it is 
taken up boiling hot. It may be kept in barrels, stone pots or 
butter firkins and boxes. A clean second-hand butter firkin is a 
very good thing to keep many kinds of preserves or pickles in. 



52 JouR]srAL Cook Book. 

Temperance Lemon Flavoring. Grrate the yellow part of 
the lemon rind, put it in a wide-mouthed bottle, covering thickly 
with sugar, cork tightly. When the sugar becomes saturated 
with the lemon it is ready for use. This retains its original 
flavor much better than the solution in alcohol called "lemon 
extract." 

Dressing for Fowls of all kinds. For a large turkey take 
one pound of fat salt pork, cut in small pieces, put in a small 
kettle, and fry until the scraps are hard (do not burn). Skim 
out the scraps. Have ready a loaf of bread cut in inch squares. 
Put into the pork grease, and stir over a moderate fire, until it 
is all fried, more or less, then remove from the fire, put in salt, 
pepper, summer savory, and sage to taste. Pour on boiling 
water, stirring all the time until it is well moistened (not too 
thin but of tlie consistency of dough). This may be flavored 
with any thing you like in the place of sage and summer savory. 
These last sliould be pulverized. 

Recipe for Baking Powder. Eleven ounces cream of tartar, 
five ounces bicarbonate of soda, one tablespoonful of flour, mix 
and sift thoroughly through a fine sieve. 

Self Freezing Ice Cream. Two quarts of rich milk, four 
eggs, whites and yolks beat in separately, three cups of sugar, 
one pint of rich cream, four teaspoonfuls of any flavoring desired. 
Heat the milk almost to boiling, beat the yolks to a stiff froth 
add the sugar, and stir it thoroughly, then add the whites which 
have been beaten to a froth, and stir again, then add this little 
by little to the hot milk, beating it all the time, stir the mix- 
tures steadily about fifteen minutes, when quite cold beat in the 
cream and the flavoring. Mrs. C. M. J., Knox. 

Chocolate Mange. One quart milk, in which boil slowly 
until dissolved one ounce of isinglass; then add one-quarter 
pound of baker's chocolate. Sugar to taste and add a small 
piece of butter, one-half teaspoonful vanilla. Boil a few 



JouRisrAL Cook Book. 53 

minutes until smooth, then strain into moulds. It is better to 
stand twenty-four hours on ice before using. This will fill two 
moulds. E. G.. Gruilderland Centre. 



Practical Hints. 



A little borax put in the water in which scarlet naj^kins and 
red-bordered towels are to be washed will prevent them from 
fading. 

Wrap glass jars of fruit in newspapers and put them away in 
a dark cool place. It prevents the fruit from bleaching. 

Plush goods, and all articles dyed with aniline colors, faded 
from exposure to light, will look as bright as ever after being 
sponged with chloroform. 

Let clothes that fade soak over night in one ounce of sugar of 
lead in a pail of water. 

An excellent furniture polish is of equal parts of shellac var- 
nish, linseed oil and spirits of wine. 

For a scald or burn apply immediately pulverized charcoal and 
oil. Lamp oil will do, but linseed is better. 

A sure and safe way to remove grease spots from silk is to rub 
the spot quickly with brown paper. The friction will soon draw 
out the grease. 

Cover plants with newspapers before sweeping. 

Wet tobacco applied to a bee or wasp sting will give instant 
relief. 

In sewing and winding carpet rags double them with the right 
side up. 

To clean door-plates, use a solution of ammonia in water, ap- 
plied with a rag. 

A solution of pearlash in water thrown upon a fire, will ex- 
tinguish it immediately. 

Wash all marble daily with ammonia and water in place of 
soapsuds. 



54 Journal Cook Book. 

Ceilings that have been smoked with a kerosene himp should 
be washed off with soda water. 

One wineglass of strong borax water in a pint of raw starch 
will make collars and cuffs stiff and glossy. 

Wash mirrors in warm suds, then dust with whiting from a 
muslin bag and polish with chamois skin. 

Rub your lamp chimneys after washing with dry salt, and you 
will be surprised at the new brilliance of your lights. 

Thick brown paper should be laid under carpets, if the patent 
lining is not to be had. It saves wear and prevents the inroads 
of moth, which, however, will seldom give trouble if salt 
is sprinkled around the edges when the carpet is laid. 

For dyspepsia pour one quart of cold water on two tablespoon- 
fuls of unslacked lime; let stand a few minutes, bottle and cork, 
and when clear it is ready for use; put three tablespoonfuls in a 
cup of milk and drink any time, usually before meals. 

There is nothing better for a cut than powdered rosin. Pound 
it until fine, and put it in an empty, clean pepper box with per- 
forated top; then you can easily sift it out on the cut, and put a 
soft cloth argund the injured member, and wet it with cold 
water once in a while. It will prevent inflammation and soreness, 

A pan of sliced raw onions placed in a room where there is 
diphtheria will absorb the poison and prevent the disease from 
s^Dreading. The onions should be buried every morning and fresh 
ones cut up. 

Bronze may be renovated and recolored by mixing one part of 
muriatic acid and two parts of water; free the article from all 
grease and dirt, and apply the diluted acid with a cloth; when 
dry polish with sweet oil. 

To take rust out of steel rub the steel with sweet oil; in a day 
or two rub with finely powdered unslacked lime until the rust 
all disappears, then oil again, roll in a woollen cloth and put in a 
dry place, especially if it be table cultery. 

To prepare an egg for a sick person, beat the egg until very 
light; add seasoning to taste, and then steam until thoroughly 
warmed through. This will not take more than two minutes. 
The most delicate stomach will be able to digest it. 



Journal Cook Book. 55 

Papered walls are cleaned by being wiped down with a flan- 
nel cloth tied over a broom or brush. Then cut off a thick 
piece of stale bread and rub down with this. Begin at the top 
and go straight down. 

Eub the tea-kettle with kerosene and jjolish with a dr}^ flan- 
nel cloth. 

Egg shells burned in the oven and placed upon the pantry 
shelves will keep bugs away. 

Kemove fruit stains from white goods by pouring boiling 
water directly from the kettle over the stains. 

A fine polish for steel articles can be got by using jjure lime 
mixed with alcohol and applied with a piece of leather. 



Familiar Talks on Familiar Topics. 



To clean a kitchen range. Every woman knows what a dif- 
ficult thing it is to blacken a range that is half covered with 
nickel-plare. 1 have used mine for five years and it has never 
been blacked, nor has the nickel been scoured, and it looks almost 
like new. I simply rub it over once a week with a cloth moist- 
ened with kerosene, and every day with a dry cloth. This can 
be done in ten minutes, and the nickel and polished edges of the 
stove look like new, and are not torn and scratched as when 
scoured. H. L. H., of Ilion. 

Table Linen. With table linen, as with that of the bedroom, 
hem-stitching is universal. A housekeeper may have her choice 
of plain hem-stitching, drawn work or fringed borders. Nap- 
kins and sfpiare center pieces for the table are finished in the 
same manner. One set is of momie cloth with a border of real 
Irish lace. Lunch and tea-cloths are white and colored and may 
be had for almost any price from pretty and inexpensive, to gor- 



56 JouRNAii Cook Book. 

geous cloths of silk and linen. These come in colors and white, 
and are used also for dinner. Those in bright yellow and in 
white are remarkably rich. Plain table drapery is also to be had 
in a great variety of patterns, and though much cheaper than 
that finished with costly needle-work, yet it is really handsome. 
As prices now stand, there is no reason why the housekeeper of 
moderate means should not have fine, dainty table linen, though 
it may not be so elaborate in design as that of her richer sister. 

Bed Linen. Every housekeeper knows the luxury of linen 
sheets, and those of the present season are beautiful. Some are 
hemstitched at top and bottom, and there are pillow and 
bolster cases to match. A choice set consists of what is called 
"a top sheet" and pillow shams. The sheet is finished at the 
upper end with hemstitching, open work, and exquisitely fine 
French embroidery extending for nearly half a yard from the 
hem. The shams are worked in the same pattern. These are 
used principally on the bed in a guest chamber. The sheet when 
turned over at the top has the same ejffect as a bolster sham. 
Indeed, the latter is of less trouble than the embroidered sheet, 
as it can be removed easily on retiring and is not so expensive. 
Pillow-shams and day-pillow cases are more used than ever be- 
fore, and come in a multiplicity of designs. 

For Home Workers. A great deal of time may be saved in 
ironing, if the sheets are folded and only a quarter of them 
ironed, and if plain underclothes are folded together and only half 
of them smoothed. Much time may be also saved in making and 
ironing both, if clothes are only made plain. Where a mother 
has a large family of children to bring up, and but little help to 
do it, she would live much longer and have time to teach them 
something useful if instead of tucking and ruffling all their gar- 
ments, she would make them as plain as possible. The children 
would make just as good and useful members of society as they 
would if more gaily dressed. If things are made in something 
like the present style, they will look well, no matter how plain. 
Where a person has plenty of time to have fancy pretty things 



JouRN"AL Cook Book. 57 

without neglecting her family, or breaking herself down, it is 
right that she should have them. But each one should be able 
to adapt herself to circumstances and do what is best for her, 
and not try to follow the example of others situated differently. 
There is one thing which is quite a saving of work to the house- 
keeper, and which perhaps is not thought of by many. When 
you have a lot of fish to fry, or French toast, or fried pudding, 
in fact any thing that needs to be browned nicely, put it on a 
large pan-cake griddle and turn it with a cake turner. This 
will be found much better than frying in a spider. 

M. E. C. 

Combing towel. A combing towel is something easily made. 
A towel with tied fringe can be purchased for about twenty-five 
cents. This is cut in two crosswise through the center. Then 
cut out to fit the neck and shoulders, and cut open down the 
front. After the raw edges are hemmed and the shoulder seams 
faced down, they may be made fancy by putting a row of vine 
stitch down the fronts, shoulders and around the neck, with 
working cotton. A brush and comb on one side of the front, 
and a buncli of hairpins on the other, done in outline stitch, are 
the approjiriate decorations. M. E. C. 

Court-plaster. Put two spoonfuls of balsam of Pecu to six 
of isinglass, melted with very little water and strained; mix these 
well together in a small stone jar over the fire. Pin out some 
black Persian or sarcenet silk on a board, and dipping a brush 
into the mixture, pass it over the silk five or six times, then 
hold it to the fire, but not very near, and it will soon become 
black and shining. 

Home decoration. Time was when only the rich could 
gratify their ajsthetic fancies, and even their tastes were humble 
compared with the extravagant ones of to-day. The houses of 
the wealthy were considered handsomely decorated if they boasted 
half a dozen massive, gaudy ornaments, valued not so much for 
grace as cost, while all their furniture and hangings were in pro- 
portion heavily elegant. Now, everything is dainty, cast in 



58 Journal Cook Book. 

beauty's mold. A fashioiiiibly furnished room is an art picture, 
made up of American, French and Oriental conceptions. ISTor 
the least commendable feature of this advancement in art is the 
fact that it is not alone observable in the homes of those favored 
by fortune. Very poor, indeed, is the housewife who cannot, 
from time to time, expend some small portion of her weekly 
stipend on a few of the really beautiful and tasteful objects sold 
in such profusion and at such moderate cost. These trifles are 
the glints of sunshine that lift the clouds of prosaic lives, and 
they have come to find as hearty appreciation in the house of the 
mechanic as in the palace of the millionaire. While some extra- 
ordinarily sensitive natures may shrink at what they term the 
"cheapening"' of art, there are others who will regard, as an 
educator, the skill that enables the artisan to reproduce in com- 
mon materials, the same designs that have been drawn by a mas- 
ter-hand. 

The same variety is permissible in furnishing a house as in 
filling a wardrobe. It is by no means necessary that either the 
window-hangings, the door-draperies or the mantel- valances 
should correspond, but there is yet required, a certain harmony 
indistinct save to the keen eye of perfect taste. No two chairs 
in a room need necessarily be of the same hue or design, but the 
furnisher is not kind who makes the medley too complex. We 
have come to an era when it is really difficult to make a mistake, 
so wide is the range given us. Nowadays an ingenius woman 
can manufacture an endless array of useful and ornamental 
things at small cost. Wooden boxes, covered with bright-colored 
figured silk and ornamented with tassels and ribbon loops, make 
pretty receptacles in a bed-chamber for boots and slippers and 
other minor accessories. While many Uving in smaller houses, 
resort to numerous clever ways of utilizing every inch of space. 
An ottoman, for instance, made high enough to serve for a seat, 
may have a hinged-top, disclosing a partitioned-box for hats and 
bonnets, and a long box, made likewise, with a lid, may be 
fitted into a window space, and made to serve at once for a seat, 
and a convenient place to store away wearing apparel. Novel 
ideas in the way of minor decorations are constantly coming up, 



JouENAL Cook Book. 69 

and these pretty trifles tend especially toward beautifying our 
homes. Palm-leaf fans for instance are graceful subjects for 
such ornamentation. They are bronzed or gilded, tied in 
bunches with huge bows of satin ribbon and tacked to the walls, 
or they are hand painted. Some ingenious person has also in- 
vented a means of utility for the thousands of wooden plates 
thrown upon the market for decoration. Two of them are 
stitched to the edge of one bias piece of satin leaving a top edge 
for an opening, thus forming a useful and very pretty little 
catch-all. 

About Cake. Here are a few points to be considered in cake 
making. When you paper a square tin, cover the ends first, then 
lay in a strip to paper the bottom and sides as using only one 
piece makes to many wrinkles. For a round tin, cut out a circle 
and slash down the sides. This will be found to lie more smoothly 
than folding. Always turn a cake out on to a cloth, as it is 
liable to stick, when hot, to a board or a plate. Angel cake 
should be baked in a moderate oven and handled about like 
sponge cake. When cake is mixed run a knife around the edge 
of the dish and mix in thoroughly all the bits of dough. If they 
are scooped into the baking tin without thorough mixing they 
will make a heavy streak in the cake. When making any thing 
with sour milk, add the soda last or put it in last, so as to save all 
the effervescence. 

Berry Pies. Every cook is aware how annoying it is to have 
the juice of the berries escape from the pie and muss up the oven 
while baking. To prevent this, just before putting the pies in 
the oven take a narrow strip of white muslin, wet it in cold water, 
then bind it firmly around the edge of the pie. In this way the 
pie will be juicy, and the oven will be kept neat and clean. 

J. W. A. of Albany. 

To preserve Eggs. Take one pint air slacked lime, half a 
pint connnon talde salt, three gallons of water. Put in a large 
stone jar and put the eggs in with a skimmer carefully so as not 
to break. This is warranted to keep eggs one year and the whites 



60 Journal Cook Book. 

will beat up as well as a fresh laid egg. The brine should 
thoroughly cover the eggs. 

Family Flour. Much trouble in cooking arises from the 
difference in various brands of flour. There are, indeed, often 
variations in the same brand. All are caused by the different 
modes of making the flour and changes in the kind of wheat 
used. Flour that is made of new spring wheat will not give as 
good bread when first made as it will after it has been kept for a 
month or more. A great deal of the trouble with bread comes 
from this condition of the flour. A barrel of flour that will not 
make good bread to-day, simply because the wheat was too new 
when ground will, if kept for two months, make perfect bread, 
if the yeast is good. For, after all, the yeast is more frequently 
than the flour the cause of failure to get satisfactory bread. When 
one buys flour in small quantities there will always be an uncer- 
tainty as to how it will work until after the first time it is used. 
Even in small families it is better to get flour by the barrel, as it 
improves with age. Another thing for the housekeeper to re- 
member is that the whitest flour is not the most nutritious. 
What is called first-quality flour does not contain nearly so large 
a quantity of the best elements of the wheat as the second-quality, 
which is much darker, but gives a sweeter and more nutritious 
loaf. 



Buying Meat. 



Before purchasing meat for the household it its well to impress 
the following facts on one's mind: Good beef has a reddish-brown 
color and contains no clots of blood. Well-nourished beeves 
furnish a flesh which, while raw, is marked with spots of white 
fat; it is firm and compact. Old, lean animals furnish a flesh 
which is tough, dry and dark; the fat is yellow. Veal is slightly 
reddish and has tender white fibers. The fat is not distributed 



JouRisTAL Cook Book. 61 

through the lean, as in beef. The same is true of mutton. In 
well-nourished animals white fat accumulates along the borders 
of the muscles. Pork is rose red, and has fat distributed 
through the muscles. The lard is white and lies in heavy de- 
posits under the skin. Good beef is not of a pale pink color, 
and such a color indicates that the animal was diseased. Good 
beef does not have a dark purjole hue, for this color is evidence 
that the animal has not been slaughtered, but died with blood 
in its body, or has suffered from acute febrile affection. Good beef 
has no, or but little, odor; if any odor is preceptible, it is not 
disagreeable. In judging as to the odor of meat pass a clean 
knife, which has been dipped in hot water, through it and ex- 
amine subsequently as to the odor of the knife. Tainted meat 
often gives off a plainly perceptible and disagreeble odor while 
being cooked. Good meat is elastic to the touch. Meat that is 
wet and flabby should be discarded. It should not become 
gelatinous after being kept in a cool place for two days, but 
should remain dry on the surface and firm to the touch. 



62 Memokanda. 



Mkmoranda. 



63 



64 



Mrmokanda. 



