
\ 



Please 

handle this volume 

with care. 

The University of Connecacut 
Libraries, Storrs 

^ ^ » »^ » » » » » 




X 




T1S3 



Q^^b6^4 7 



/ 



/ 



WHAT ONE CAN DO WITH 
A CHAFING-DISH ' 

A Guide for Amateur Cooks 




By H. L. S( 



NEW REVISED AND ENLARGED EDITION 
TWENTIETH THOUSAND 



G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS 
NEW YORK & LONDON 



Copyright. 1889 

BY 

H. L. SAWTELLE 



Copyright, 1890 

BY 

JOHN IRELAND 



Copyright. 1896 

BY 

JOHN IRELAND 



Contents. 



Anchovy Toast, Creamed, 


. 148 


Articles convenient to have 


for 


Chafing-dish, 


• 5 


Beans, Lima, .... 


. 114 


Beef, Cold Roast, Rechauffe of. 


. 66 


Beef, Chipped, 


• 63 


Beef, Curry of Cold Roast, . 


• 65 


Beef en Matelotte, . 


. 62 


Beef with Jelly, 


. 69 


Beefsteak k la Mode, 


• 59 


Beefsteak Rechauffe, 


. 60 


Beignets de Pommes, 


• 145 


Bouches D'Huitres, 


• 44 


Bouille-i-Baisse, 


• 31 


Bread Saute, .... 


. 146 


Bubble and Squeak, 


• 67 



Calf's Liver Saute, . 


. 82 


Caviare, 


• 149 


Cheese Crouton, 


141 


Cheese Fondu, 


140 


Cheese Souffle, 


142 


Chicken 4 la Reine, 


95 


Chicken, Canned, . 


98 


Chicken, Salpicon of. 


97 


Chicken Terrapin, . 


96 


Chops with Mushrooms, 


72 


Clams, 


20 


Clams and Scallops, Creamed, 


22 


Clams, Soft-shell, . 


21 


Collops, Minced au Naturel, . 


64 


Crabs en CrSme, 


S3 


Crabs, Saute, .... 


52 


Curry Sauce for Cold Meats, 


90 



CONTENTS. 



Dried Beef with Eggs, 
Duck, Canvas-back, 

Eggs a I'Espagnole, 
Eggs a la Jardiniere, 
Eggs a la Maltre D'Hotel 
Eggs, Creamed, 
Eggs, Curried, 
Eggs, Fricasseed, 
Eggs, Scrambled, . 
Eggs en huile. Scrambled, 

Fish, Cod, Deviled, 

Fish, Cod, Scrambled, 

Fish, Cod, Tongues, 

Fish, Curried, 

Fish — Halibut Saute, 

Fish — Herring i I'Anglaise, 

Fish, Rechauffe of, . 

Fish Roe, 

Fish Roe, Shad, Curried, 

Fish, Salpicon of, . 



PAGE 
94 

128 

135 
134 
131 
132 
136 

137 

38 

35 
37 
3° 
40 

55 
28 
27 
54 
34 



Fish, Salt Cod, Dessicated, . . 33 

Fish, Salt Cod, Hash, . . -36 

Fish, Salt, Scorched, . . .32 

Fish, White, d la Provengale, . 41 

Fricandeau de foie de veau, • . 83 

Fritadeila, . . . . -91 

Frogs, 58 

Game, Salmi of, ... . 102 
Game, Salpicoti of, . . . . 105 

Ham k I'Espagnole, . . . 88 

Ham k la Fourchette, . . -87 
Ham and Eggs, .... 138 
Ham, Deviled, .... 86 

Ham, Piquant Sauce, . . .89 
Hamburg Steak, . . . .61 
Huitres en Coquilles, . . -49 

Jambon k bon goiit, . . . 109 

Lamb's Liver, ..... 84 
Lobster, 25 



CONTENTS. 







PAGE 




PAGE 


Lobster h la Newberg, 


• 


24 


Oysters, Kornlet, 


. 48 


Lobster au Natural, 


. 


23 


Oysters, Sautes, 


• 45 


Lobster, Curried, . 




26 


Oysters, Scolloped, 


. 46 


Macaroni k la Gruyere, . 




144 










Petit Pois, . . . . 


. no 


Macaroni au Gratin, 




125 










Pic-ca-dee, . . . . 


. lOI 


Mushrooms— Agaricus Cam 


pestris 


120 


Pig's Feet Saute, 


• 85 


Mushrooms ^ la Proven^ale 
Mushrooms — Cantharellus 


Ciba- 


124 


' 

Potatoes it. la Lyonnaise, 
Potatoes Rechauffe, 


. 112 
. 113 


rius, .... 




122 


Potato Souffle, 


. Ill 


Mushrooms — Fair)' Ring 


Cham- 












Poulet au Champignons, 


. 100 


pignon, .... 




121 


Preface, . . . . . 


7 


Mushrooms, Meadow, 




118 






Mushroom Puff Ball, 


! 


119 


Prune Toast, . . . . 


■ 147 


Mushrooms, Saute of, 
Mushrooms with Bacon, 




117 
123 


Ragout of Cold Meat, . 
Reed Birds, . . . . 


• 70 

• 107 


Mutton or Lamb Re'chauffe, 


• 


71 


Reed Birds in Blankets, 


. 108 


Mock Oyster Stew, . 




50 






Omelet, .... 


. 


129 


Salmon a la Reine, 


• 29 


Omelet, Tomato, 


. 


13b 


Salmon Rechauffe, . 


• 39 


Oyster Crabs, Saute' of, . 


, 


SI 


Salpicon Imperial . 


■ 99 


Oysters a la Creme, 




47 


Sardine Toast, . 


■ 56 



CONTENTS. 



Sardines with Hollandaise Sauce, 
Scallops and Clams, Creamed, 
Scallops en huile, 
Scallops, Saute of, 
Shrimps, . 
Shrimps, Creamed, 
Shrimps, Stewed, 
Squabs, 
Stew, English, 
Sweet-breads, . 
Sweet- breads d la Milanaise, 
Sweet-breads and Mushroom Ra- 
gout, 

Tomato Puree and Macaroni, 
Tomatoes and Mushrooms, . 



57 

22 

43 

42 

17 
i8 

19 

106 

68 

75 
73 

74 

126 

116 



Tomatoes, Fried, 

Tongue, Deviled Ox, 

Tripe, 

Tripe Saute, 

Turkey, Capilotade of 

Turkey, Salpicon of. 



Veal, Curried, . 
Veal Cutlets, . 
Veal Kidneys Sauid 
Venison, . 
Venison Steak, 

Welsh Rarebit, 
Welsh Rarebit, Pap 

Wheatena, 



115 

79 
92 

92, 

104 

i°3 

77 
76 

78 
80 
8i 

139 
143 
15° 



List of Articles convenient to have on hand 
FOR Chafing-dish use. 

Tomato Purde. (Italian grocer. ) 

Johnston's Fluid Beef. (Any good grocer.) 

Anchovy paste. 

Paprica (Hungarian red pepper), 

Curry powder. 

Kornlet. 

Caviare. 

Garlic. 

Can of unsweetened condensed milk. 

Mushroom catsup. 

Tomato catsup. 

Petit Pois. 

Two or three small wooden spoons. 

A small grater. 

Wire-toaster for gas. 



Preface. ■ 

HAFING-DISFIES are growini^ daily more and more in favor, 
and to the daintiness of the food to l)e prepared is added the 
charm of social intercourse and the informality of the environment. 
The excellence of the edibles so prepared lies greatly in the fact 
that they are served instantly, and that the hand of the cook is 
guided by brains. Many dainty dishes lose much of the piquancy 
of their flavor in the transfer from the kitchen range to the dining- 
room. 

Lalance & Grosjean have added to their outfit of agate utensils 
a small stove, heated by a remarkable fuel called Sestalit, which emits 
no smoke or odor, is cleanly and non-explosive, and creates no flame. 



It will be found a most convenient addition to the usual alcohol lamp, 
and in many instances will take the place of it. The heat is mod- 
crate and uniform. It is often desirable to keep one dish hot while 
another is being prepared, and in cookincj mushrooms a low tem- 
perature is essential, in order to preserve their delicate flavor. This 
mode of cooking is also very inexpensive, as two cents' worth of the 
fuel will keep the chafing-dish supplied for at least two hours. 

I also recomm.end a small wire arrangement for toasting bread 
by the heat of a gas-burner. The use of this recent invention (which 
can probably be found at any of the house-furnishing stores) enables 
one to have hot toast to be served with the contents of the chafing- 
dish. 



TT will be noticed that the recipe used almost invariably for 
-*- the chafing-dish source, is two tablespoonfuls of flour, mixed 
smoothly with two tablespoonfuls of melted butter ; the spoon- 
fuls of flour should be scant, even tablespoonfuls, and those of 
butter, heaping. Good stock can be made at a moment's notice 
by dissolving a dessert-spoonful of fluid beef in half a pint of 
boiling water, well seasoned with pepper, salt, and two or three 
drops of extract of celery, and a small teaspoonful of onion 
juice. 



T ESPECIALLY recommend the use of Johnston's Fluid Beef 
-^ for stock and sauces. It is an extract of the choicest beef, 
prepared (under letters patent) with scrupulous care, and is not 
only nutritive, but very palatable. It has a much more agree- 
able flavor than any of the other condensed preparations of 
beef, and for chafing-dish use it will be found to be almost 
indispensable, as many of the recipes depend for their excellence 
partly upon this invaluable preparation. 



'"pHE spirit of each dish, and zest of all, 
Is what ingenious cooks the relish call, 
For though the market sends in loads of food, 
They are all tasteless, till that, makes them good." 

— Kings Cookery. 



fT^HIS foretaste of Epicurean delights I dedicate to an old 
friend in the Admiralty, the delicacy of whose gastronomic 
perceptions is the best authority I can offer, for the excellency 
of these recipes. 



12 



it 



T_TE that can grasp the golden mean, 
And is content to Hve between 



The little and the grreat — 
Knows not the wants that plague the poor, 
Nor the plagues that fret the rich man's door." 

— Horace. 



"H 



E that will have a cake out of wheat, must needs 
tarry at the grinding." — Troilus and Cressida. 



13 



TX7E may live without poetry, music and art, 

We may live without conscience, and live without heart; 
We may live without friends, we may live without books, 
But civilized man cannot live without cooks ! 
He may live without books — what is knowledge but grieving? 
He may live without hope — what is hope but deceiving? 
He may live without love — what is passion but pining? 
But where is the man that can live without dining?" 



14 



WHAT does cookery mean? It means the knowledge of 
Medea, and of Circe, and of Calypso, and of Helen, and 
of Rebekah, and of the Queen of Sheba. It means knowledge 
of all herbs, and fruits, and balms, and spices, and of all that 
is healing and sweet in groves, and savory in meat. It means 
carefulness and inventiveness, watchfulness, willingness, and readi- 
ness of appliances. It means the economy of your great-grand- 
mother, and the science of modern chemistry, and French art, 
and Arabian hospitality. It means, in fine, that you are to see 
imperatively that every one has something nice to eat." — Ruskin. 

It means, also, that much may be done by taking pains with 
a chafing-dish. 



15 



A N Agate Chafing-Dish, of extra size, is manufactured expressly 
-'^-^ for the recipes contained in this book, and it is preferable 
to any other (except sterling silver), not only on account of the 
smooth, polished surface, but the much greater amount of heat 
to be obtained quickly. 



16 



Shrimps. 

"r)UT into the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter, half an 
-'- onion, grated or minced very fine. When hot, stir in half a cup 
of cold rice, carefully boiled ; add a gill of cream, and half a pint 
of canned or fresh shrimps ; add a tablespoonful of tomato sauce. 
Stir well until it comes to the boiling point, then let it simmer for 
about five minutes. 



17 



Creamed Shrimps. 

r\NK can of shrimps, half a pint of cream, a teaspoonful of 
^^ paprica, a little salt, and a little nutmeg. Cut the shrimps 
in small pieces ; put all together in the chafing-dish, stir constantly, 
and when it comes to a boil (do not let it boil actively) stir in 
two well-beaten eggs and a glass of Moselle. 



i8 



Stewed Shrimps. 

T~)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when 



h-' 



■^ melted, stir in a tablespoonful of flour, a little salt and pepper. 
Add gradually nearly a pint of rich milk. Rinse in cold water a 
can of N. O. shrimps, dry them, cut in two, and add them to 
the sauce. Stir constantly for four or five minutes, and serve hot. 



19 



Clams. 

TTAVE twenty-five clams chopped fine; put in the chafing-dish 
-*- -^ two tablespoonfuls of butter ; when melted, add two table- 
spoonfuls of flour. Add the clams, with half a pint of their 
juice ; season well with pepper and salt, and let them simmer 
from ten to fifteen minutes. Just before serving, add a gill of 
cream, and let it come to a boil ; serve hot. 



Soft-shell Clams. 

TJAVE all the hard part removed from fifty perfectly fresh soft- 
^ -^ shell clams. Put in the chafing-dish a heaping tahlespoonful 
of butter; when melted, add the clams, with a wineglass of 
Madeira. Let them cook sloiuly for about ten minutes. Add 
the well-beaten yolks of three eggs to a pint of cream, pour this 
over the clams, and stir constantly for about five minutes. 



21 



Scallops and Clams Creamed. 

ONE bunch of soft-shell clams from which the hard part has 
been carefully removed ; one-half pint of scallops. Let the 
scallops stand in very hot water for five minutes, then dra'n. Put 
in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when melted, 
add a tablespoonful of fiour, a little pepper and salt, and a few 
drops of onion-juice ; stir in a gill of cream: When very hot, 
add the clams and scallops, and cook from five to ten minutes. 



22 



Lobster au Naturel. 

T^EAT the yolks of two eggs, with two tablespoonfuls of 
■^ butter, until smooth ; add a gill of cream ; season well with 
pepper and salt; stir in the finely-chopped meat of a freshly- 
boiled lobster ; let it simmer for a few minutes, and serve hot. 
Do not let it boil, as that would cook the egg too much. 



23 



Lobster a la Newberg. 

'"PAKE the nicest part of two small or one large lobster, cut 
^ into small slice, put in the chafing-dish with a tablespoonful 
of butter; season well with pepper and salt, pour over it a 
gill of wine ; cook ten minutes ; add the beaten yolks of three 
eggs and half a pint of cream. Let all come to a boil, and 
serve immediately. 



24 



Lobster, 

/^HOP or shred the meat of a cold, boiled lobster, tail and 
^ claws ; pour over it the juice of two lemons, add half a 
teaspoonful of cayenne, and a teaspoonful of salt. Put in the 
chafing-dish three tablespoonfuls of fresh butter; when melted, 
add the lobster. Let it simmer for about ten minutes, stirring 
constantly. — Caterer. 



25 



Curried Lobster. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish a lablespoonful of butter, and fry an 
•^ onion and an apple, chopped very fine, until they are 
thoroughly cooked ; sprinkle with curry-powder, according to taste, 
from a teaspoonful to a tablespoonful ; mix a tablespoonful of 
cornstarch with half a pint of cream ; pour into the chafing-dish, 
and when it is smooth and very hot add the lobster, cut in small 
pieces. 



26 



Fish Roe, 

PUT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish, with a 
tablespoonful of vinegar or lemon juice. Add a shad roe 
(which has been previously boiled about ten minutes in salted 
water). Break up lightly with a fork, add the yolks of two 
hard-boiled eggs, mashed fine, a small cup of grated bread 
crumbs, a little chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Stir con- 
stantly until all is well mixed, and serve very hot. 



27 



Rechauffe of Fish. 

/^UT fine, any cold-boiled fish; put in the chafing-dish with 
^ two tablespoonfuls of butter ; when melted, add a cupful of 
bread crumbs, two eggs beaten slightly, two tablespoonfuls of 
cream or milk, a teaspoonful of anchovy paste, a little pepper 
and cayenne. Mix all well together; let it simmer about five 
minutes, stirring constantly, and serve. 



28 



Salmon a la Reine. 

"r)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish; when 
-^ melted, stir in gradually a tablespoonful of ffour; stir until 
quite smooth ; add a gill of water, the juice of a lemon, pepper, 
salt, a small onion, minced very fine or grated, and the yolks of 
three hard-boiled eggs, mashed fine. Add a can of salmon or a 
pound of fresh-boiled salmon ; let it simmer about five minutes 
and serve. 



2q 



Curried Fish. 

COOK one tablespoonful of onion, cut very fine, in one table- 
spoonful of butter, five minutes. Be careful not to burn. 
Mix one tablespoonful of curry powder with one tablespoonful 
of flour, and stir into the melted butter. Add, gradually, half 
a pint of milk or cream, stirring constantly. Then add a large 
cupful of any kind of cold-boiled fish ; let it simmer a few- 
minutes, and serve very hot. 



30 



BOUILLE A BaISSE, 

JT'RY an onion chopped very fine in two tablespoonfuls of pure 
^ olive oil ; add a clove of garlic minced very fine, a dash of 
cayenne, a teaspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of flour; stir until 
smooth ; then add half a pint of white stock, a cupful of cold 
boiled cod or halibut, a cupful of lobster; let it simmer from ten 
to fifteen minutes, stirring often. 



31 



Scorched Salt Fish, 

T^ICK a small piece of the thickest part of a salt cod, which 
^ has been soaked over night, into long flakes ; dry with a 
napkin ; put in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter ; 
when z'cry hot, put in the flakes of fish, brown a little .on both 
sides; serve very hot. It is a good appetizer. 



32 



Salt Cod Fish, Desiccated, 

"P)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when 
-^ melted, add one tablespoonful of flour, stirring constantly ; 
add half a pint of desiccated codfish, which has been soaked 
for an hour in tepid water. Add a gill of cream and a little 
pepper, and, if you like, a suspicion of grated nutmeg. Let 
it all simmer for ten minutes, stirring constantly. — Caterer. 



33 



Salpicon of Fish. 

r^lJT cold toast into squares or rounds; lay on each a thick 
^ slice of raw tomato ; on top of each put some flakes of cold 
cooked codfish or halibut ; cover with a plentiful supply of 
Hollandaise sauce. Melt a tablespoonful of butter in the chafing- 
dish ; lay in the prepared pieces of toast ; cover for about five 
minutes, and serve. 



Hollandaise Sauce. 

CREx^M quarter of a pound of butter; add yolks of three eggs; 
beat well together ; add the juice of half a lemon and a 
small saltspoonful of cayenne ; stir until smooth and creamy. 



34 



Scrambled Codfish. 

PUT half a pint of cream into the chafing-dish ; when hot, stir 
in half a pint of shredded, well freshened codfish ; let it 
simmer about ten minutes, then add two well-beaten eggs; stir 
until they are cooked, add a little white pepper, and serve. 



35 



Salt Codfish Hash, 

T])UT half a pint of cream into the chating-dish ; add half a pint 
-'- of mashed potatoes, half a pint of shredded codfish, and a 
little pepper. Serve when thoroughly heated. 



36 



Codfish Tongues, 

T)UT into the cliafincr-dish a heaping tablespoonful of butter, in 
-^ which bruise a clove of garlic with a small wooden spoon ; 
take out the garlic ; stir in until smooth a tablespoonful of flour, 
pepper, and salt. Add a pint of Moselle or any white wine and 
when hot stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs; in this warm the 
codfish tongues, which have been previously cooked in salted water 
for about thirty minutes. 



37 



M 



Deviled Cod. 

IX a pint of cold-cooked fresh cod, chopped fine, with four 
■^^-^ hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine. Season with salt, pepper, 
and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Put in the chafing-dish 
half a pint of cream and a tablespoonful of Anchovy paste ; when 
well mixed and hot, stir in the above mixture and serve. 



38 



Salmon Rechauffe. 

SEPARATE into flakes a pound of fresh or a can of salmon ; 
pour over it a gill of French dressing made of equal parts 
of vinegar and oil, a few drops of onion-juice, pepper, and salt. 
Put in the chafing-dish two heaping tablespoonfuls of butter and 
a dessert-spoonful of flour ; add a gill of cream and a gill of 
sherry ; when well mixed, add the fish and heat thoroughly. 



39 



Halibut Saute, 

TTAVE a pound of chicken halibut, cut in thin slices about 
-^ -^ two inches square, well dredged in flour, pepper, and salt. 
Put in the chafing-dish three tablespoonfuls of butter When 
very hot, put in the fish ; as soon as one side is well browned, 
turn and brown the other. Take out the fish and pour into the 
chafing-dish the contents of a can of tomato puree ; as soon as 
hot, pour over the fish, and serve. 



40 



White Fish a la Provencale. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when 
-^ melted, add one tablespoonful of flour and a gill of milk 
or cream. Mash fine the )olks of four hard-boiled eggs, which 
mix well with a teaspoonfuls of anchovy paste ; stir constantly 
until it boils. Add a pound of cold-boiled halibut, cod, or any 
white fish, cut in small slices, let it simmer a few minutes, and 
serve. 



41 



Saute of Scollops. 

r^UT in small pieces half a pint of scollops, which have been 
^ previously boiled about fifteen minutes ; squeeze the juice 
of two lemons over them ; add half a teaspoonful of cayenne, a 
teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of butter ; put all in the 
chafing-dish. Stir constantly for about ten minutes, and serve. 



42 



Scallops en Huile. 

T^UT in the chafing-dish three tablespoonfuls of pure olive oil, 
■^ salt, a dash of cayenne, six drops of celery extract, and a 
dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice. Put half a pint of scallops in 
water at the boiling point (do not let it boil) for fiv'e minutes; 
then drain dry, and dredge with flour by shaking in a napkin. 
When the oil is zwrj hot, add the scallops, and fry quickly. 



-13 



BoucHES d'Huitres, 

T~) OLL large oysters in pepper and salt ; have ready some very 
^ *- thin slices of salt fat pork ; wrap each oyster in a slice, and 
fasten with a wooden toothpick. Put in the chafing-dish, and 
cook just long enough to crisp the pork. 



44 



Oysters Sautes, 

O ELECT a dozen large, fine oysters, drain the juice thoroughly 
^ from them, butter the chafing-dish well, and when z'ctv hot 
place the oysters in single layers. When brown on one side turn 
it upon the other, and brown that also. While cooking, keep 
adding a little butter; this, combining with the juice given out by 
the oyster, forms a brown skin in the chafing-dish, and is the very 
quintescence of oyster flavor. Season with pepper and salt ; when 
nicely brovv^ned, serve all, oysters and skin, very hot. — Caterer. 



Scolloped Oysters, • 

PUT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter and a 
gill of cream ; put in a layer of oysters, well drained, and 
sprinkle over it two tablespoonfuls of cerealine (Cerealine Flakes), 
another layer of oysters, more cerealine and some small bits of 
butter; season with pepper and salt. Put on the cover, and cook 
from five to ten minutes. 



46 



Oysters a la Creme, 

T^UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter, half a 
^ pint of cream, a salt-spoonful of salt, same quantity of 
pepper, a little powdered mace, or grated nutmeg, and two bay 
leaves. When it boils, sift in two dessert-spoonfuls of finely 
powdered cracker crumbs ; add twenty-five oysters, blanched and 
drained, cook two minutes, and serve on hot toast. 



47 



KoRNLET Oysters. 



\ /riX with the contents of a can of Koinlet four eggs, well 
■^ -^ beaten, a little salt and pepper, and a tablespoonful of thick 
cream. Put in the chafing-dish two tahlespoonfuls of butter, and 
when 7iery hot fry the mixture in small portions, about the size 
of an oyster. 



48 



HUITRES EN COQUILLES. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish three tablespoon fuls of butter and a 
■^ tablespoonful of flour ; wlicn melted and smooth, add half a 
pint of thick cream, a tablesjioonful of grated onion, eight drops 
of celery extract, and a little parsley chopped fine, a little salt, a 
dash of cayenne, and the yolks of three eggs. Do not let the 
sauce boil after the eggs are put in or it will curdle. Pour this 
sauce into a bowl. Put twenty-five large oysters into the 
chafing-dish and cook slowly until they are quite solid — thoroughly 
cooked without shrinking — now pour over them the sauce, and 
serve quite hot. 



49 



Mock Oyster Stew. 

'"PAKE a small piece of salt cod, which has been soaked in 
-^ cold water over night, and cooked until soft (which should 
be done by simmering slowly, not boiling), shred it fine and 
mix well with it a tablespoonful of dry flour. Put it in the 
chafing-dish with two tablespoonfuls of butter, a dozen oyster 
crackers split ; pour over the mixture two cups of hot milk or 
cream ; season with pepper, and stir constantly five or ten 
minutes. 



50 



Saute of Oyster Crabs. 

T2)UT one tablespoonful of butter in the chafing-dish; when 
-^ melted, add two tablespoonfuls of thick cream, season with 
salt and cayenne ; when very hot, add half a pint of oyster 
crabs, cook one minute, and serve. 



51 



Crabs Saute. 

PUT into the chafing-dish three tabiespoonfuls of butter, a little 
. salt, a salt-spoonfiil of cayenne, a tablespoon ful of lemon-juice, 
a dessert-spoonful of onion-juice. Now add a pint of crab-meat ; 
(it can be procured in Fulton Market fresh) ; stir constantly until 
well heated, and serve at once. 



52 



Crabs en Creme, 

F)UT into the chafing-dish half a pint of thick cream ; add a 
^ pint of crab-meat ; salt and pepper ; serve as soon as hot. 
It is an improvement to dredge over the meat a little flour 
while stirrino- it ; let it simmer about five minutes. 



Shad-Roe Curried, 

TT^RY in a tablespoonful of pure olive oil a small onion, minced 
-*- fine ; add a teaspoonful of curry, a dash of cayenne, and two 
tablespoonfuls of thick cream. Cut in slices a shad- roe that has 
been previously boiled in salted water, and when very hot serve. 



54 



Herring a l'Anglaise. 

/^HOOSE a fat Varmouth l)loatcr, with a fine soft roe; soak 
^ it in milk, skin, and bone carefully, and pound in a mortar 
with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs. Put in the chafing-dish 
a tablespoonful of pure olive oil, a teaspoonful of grated onion, 
a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, and a teaspoonful of 
paprica; add the above paste and stir until well mixed and hot; 
serve on toast. 



55 



Sardine Toast, 

T^UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter and one 
-'- of flour; stir until smooth and a light brown. Add two or 
three tablespoonfuls of stock, the grated zest of half a lemon, 
two or three drops of essence of cloves, a wineglass of sherry. 
Remove the skin from six or eight boned sardines, chop fine, 
add a teaspoonful of grated onion ; stir until the ingredients are 
thoroughly mixed, and serve hot on toast. 



56 



Sardines with Hollandaise Sauce, 

REMOVE the skins from a small box of boneless sardines; 

add four tablespoonfuls of Hollandaise sauce, and when 
thoroughly heated serve on toast. 



bV 



Frogs, 

"OROGS can be purchased in the market prepared for cook- 
^ ing ; cut them in halves, lengthwise ; separate the legs. Put 
three tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; when melted, 
add a tablespoonful of flour, stir until smooth, then add a gill 
of cream, then the frogs, well seasoned with pepper, salt and a 
little grated nutmeg. Put on the cover and cook for twenty 
minutes. A little more cream or milk may be added while 
cooking. — Caterer. 



58 



Beefsteak a la Mode, 

"P)UT a pound of beefsteak, cut about an inch thick, in the 
-*- chafing-dish, in which two tablespot^nfuls of butter has been 
melted, with two or three slices of lemon. Let it cook slowly 
five or ten minutes ; then pour over it a gill of good stock, 
or the same quantity of hot water, in which a dessert-spoonful 
of fluid beef has been dissolved, also a gill of port wine. Allow 
the whole to simmer slowly ten minutes longer. When ready 
to serve, squeeze the juice of a lemon over the steak. — Caterer. 



50 



Beefsteak Rechauffe, 

/^UT in small dice the remains of a good tender steak. Put in 
^ the chafing-dish a tablespoonful of butter, two tablespoonfuls 
of cream, a tablespoonful of Johnston's Fluid Beef ; pepper 
and salt. When hot, add the beef, and serve as soon as hot ; 
do not let it boil. A tablespoonful of mushroom catsup is an 
improvement. 



60 



Hamburg Steak. 

/^NE pound of beef from the tender part of the round, 
^ chopped very fine. Put into the chafing-dish three table- 
spoonfuls of butter. When melted, a layer of grated bread- 
crumbs, then a layer of chopped meat ; over that sprinkle 
pepper, salt, a little grated onion, and chopped parsley. Cover 
closely, and let it cook about ten minutes. Serve hot. 



ei 



Beef en Matelotte. 

r^HOP very fine six small onions and put in the chafing-dish 
^ with two tablespoonfuls of butter; when a light brown, 
shake in from a small dredging-box about a tablespoonful of 
flour, stirring all the while. Add a glass of claret, a table- 
spoonful of stock, a tablespoonful of mushroom catsup, salt, 
pepper, and two or three drops of extract of celery ; lay in 
the hot-water plate some slices of cold roast-beef, preferably 
the fillet, and strain over it from the chafing-dish the sauce, 
prepared as above. Place it over the lamp, closely covered, long 
enough to heat through. 



62 



Chipped Beef. 

r)UT into the chafing-dish three tablespoonfuls of butter; wlien 
t^ melted, stir in a tablespoonful of fiour; stir until smooth; 
add half a pound of chipped beef, which has been soaking for 
ten minutes in about a gill of water; let it simmer for five 
minutes, then stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs; serve very 
hot. 



63 



Minced Collops au Naturel. 

OiRDER from the butcher a pound of beef from the tender 
^-^ part of the round, chopped very fine, quite free from fat, 
skin, etc.; season with pepper and salt; put in the chafing-dish 
before it is hot ; stir constantly until it becomes very hot, to 
prevent the meat forming in lumps. Saute it in its own juice 
for about ten minutes ; then add a tablespoonful of butter, a 
small onion minced very fine, a teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup 
and a tablespoonful of flour made into a smooth paste with a 
little butter. — Caterer. 



64 



Curry of Cold Roast Beef. 

CUT some slices of cold roast beef into rather small, square pieces, 
and dredge them with flour. Chop a small onion fine, and fry 
it in two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; add a gill of 
stock, and one tablespoonful of curry powder ; put in the pieces of 
beef, and let all simmer ten or fifteen minutes. 



65 



Cold Roast Beef Rechauffe. 

/^UT cold roast beef in small slices, about half an inch thick; put 
^ into the chafing-dish a tablespoonful of butter ; when melted, 
add three tablespoonfuls of currant-jelly, a dash of cayenne, a little 
salt, and a glass of sherry or Madeira. Add the beef, and serve 
when hot. 



66 



Bubble and Squeak. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; slightly 
-^ cook some thin slices of cold corned beef, well peppered; 
add some cold boiled cabbage, chopped fine, well seasoned with 
pepper and salt, a tablespoonful of pickled cucumber and onion; 
mixed, and a small teaspoonful of made mustard ; serve hot. 



67 



English Stew. 

/^UT any kind of cold meat, as for hash, sprinkle it with pepper, salt 
^ and flour, and lay it in the chafing-dish, in which a tablespoonful 
of butter has been previously melted, with some pickled cabbage or 
onions. Pour over it a gill of hot water, in which a tablespoonful of 
fluid beef has been dissolved, a tablespoonful of mushroom catsup, 
and a dessert-spoonful of taragon vinegar. Let all simmer for ten 
minutes, stirring occasionally. 



Beef with Jelly, 

T)UT into the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter, two of 
^ currant jelly, a dash of cayenne, a little grated nutmeg; stir 
until well blended, then add a gill of sherry. Put in slices of 
rare roast-beef and let them simmer (not boil) for about five 
minutes, turning often. 



6q 



Ragout of Cold Meat, 

T^UT into the chafing-dish a heaping tablespoonful of butter, an 
■^ even tablespoonful of flour ; when melted and smoothly 
blended, stir in a tablespoonful of grated onion, a tablespoonful of 
cucumbers (also grated), a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, a 
teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of paprica, two 
or three drops of celery extract. Stir until very hot, then lay in 
slices of either cold veal, lamb, mutton, or chicken. 



■70 



Mutton or Lamb Rechauffe. 

7)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when 
i melted, add, stirring constantly, a tablespoonful of flour; 
add a gill of water; when it boils, stir in a heaping teaspoonful 
of fluid beef, and one or two teaspoonfuls of mushroom or 
walnut catsup. Add the cold mutton or lamb cut in small 
dice, or thin slices, let it simmer about five minutes and serve. 



Chops with Mushrooms. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two lablespoonfuls of butter and one 
^ of olive oil, six or eight drops of celery extract, a teaspoon- 
ful of onion-juice, pepper and salt ; when very hot, put in half a 
dozen lamb-chops; when brown on one side, turn and brown 
the other. They will take about five minutes to cook. When 
ready to serve, pour over them a mushroom sauce that has been 
very slowly cooking in a little butter and its own juice for half 
an hour. 



M 



Sweet-Breads A la Milanaise. 

INCE very fine two sweet-breads that have been carefully pre- 
■^''-^ pared and thoroughly parboiled ; add a tablespoonful of 
Parmesan cheese grated, a little salt and cayenne, and the beaten 
yolks of two eggs; mix thoroughly. Put into the chafing-dish two 
tablespoonfuls of butter ; when very hot pour in the above mixture ; 
let it brown slightly, and serve hot. 



73 



Sweet-Bread and Mushroom Ragout. 

T2)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when 
-^ meked, two tablespoonfuls of flour, stirring constantly. 
Season with salt and pepper ; add a gill of cream, a cold- 
dressed sweet-bread, and a dozen mushrooms, cut into small 
dice. Let all simmer for about ten minutes, stirring often. 



74 



Sweet-Breads. 

PUT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish; when 
very hot put in the sweet-breads (which have been pre- 
viously boiled and prepared), cut in small pieces. Cook about 
five minutes ; take out the sweet-breads ; add gradually a table- 
spoonful of flour, pepper and salt, and a gill of cream. Stir 
constantly until you have a smooth sauce, return the sweet- 
breads to the chafing-dish, and serve hot. 



75 



Ve/\l Cutlets. 

/OUTLETS for the chafing-dish should be previously piepared by 
^ dipping pieces cut tiiin, about two inches square, into eggs, 
beaten, and seasoned with pepper and salt. After they are egged, 
dip them lightly into a little grated Parmesan cheese, then into 
sifted cracker-crumbs. Fry three or four slices of fat salt pork in 
the chafing-dish. When it is crisp, take out the pork (keep hot) 
and cook the cutlets in the fat. Serve hot, a piece of pork with 
each. 



76 



Curried Veal. 

r^UT into small pieces, half an inch square, about a pound of 
^ cold roast veal ; put in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls 
of butter, an onion, a tart apple, and a clove of garlic, all 
minced fine ; then stir in a tablespoonful of curr)- powder, and 
half a tablespoonful of flour; add the meat and pour in half a 
pint of stock, or the same quantity of hot water, in which a 
dessert-spoonful of fluid beef has been dissolved. Add a little 
lemon juice and salt, let it all simmer slowly a few minutes, 
and serve hot. 



77 



Veal Kidneys Sautes. 

PUT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; add a 
small onion, minced fine ; when very hot add a veal kidney 
cut in thin slices ; let them cook for about five minutes, turning 
often. As soon as they are nicely browned, add a tablespoonful 
of mushroom ketchup, and either a tablespoonful of stock or a 
dessert-spoonful of fluid beef, dissolved in a little cream. Season 
with pepper and salt, and, if you like, just before serving, add 
a glass of Madeira or Sherry. 



78 



Ox Tongues, Deviled, 

/^UT into slices one of Libby, McNeill & Libby's ox tongues; 
^ put a layer of them on an ordinary dinner plate, sprinkle over 
with dry mustard, a little cayenne, and two teaspoonfuls of salad oil ; 
place over this another layer of tongue and season as before. Repeat 
this until a sufficient quantity of the tongue has been treated ; let it 
remain for three or four hours. Put a tablespoonful of butter in the 
chafing-dish, and when very hot add slices of tongue, and brown 
quickly. Add more butter as it is required. 



79 



Venison, 

/^UT a steak in pieces about two inches square; shake them in 
^ a na])kin with a handful of flour, to which a little pepper and 
salt has been added ; put three tablespoonfuls of butter in the 
chafing-dish, and when very hot put in the venison and cook 
quickly. When done, add half a tumbler of currant jelly ; let it 
melt, and pour over the meat. 



80 



Venison Steak. 

TJAVE the steak cut about an inch and a half thick. Lay it in the 
■^ -^ chafing-dish, in which two tablespoonfuls of butter have been 
melted. Season with pepper and salt. Add two gills of port wine, 
and a tablespoonful of pure red currant jelly. Cook until one side is 
done, then turn, and cook the other side. The degree of cooking 
must depend upon your own taste. — Caterer. 



Calf's Liver Saute. 

"QUT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter and a 
-^ tablespoonful of onion, minced fine. When very hot, add 
half a pound of calf's liver, cut in slices, well seasoned with 
pepper and salt and dredged with flour. Saute on both sides, 
and serve hot, with a sauce made by beating the yolk of an 
egg with a tablespoonful of butter, a little cayenne, and a dessert- 
spoonful of lemon-juice. 



83 



Fricandeau de foie de Veau, 

nUT in small dice a portion of calf's liver that has been pre- 
^ viously cooked. Put into the chafing-dish two tahlespoonfuls 
of butter and a tablespoonful of flour. Stir until smooth ; add a 
tablespoonful of chopped onion and a teaspoonful of paprica ; 
pepper and salt; add a gill of cream and the liver; let it simmer 
for about ten minutes. When ready to serve on thin slices of 
toast, add a tablespoonful of sherry. 



83 



Lamb's Liver. 

/^UT the liver in thin slices and the slices into narrow strips; 
^ put in a napkin a tablespoonful of flour and a little pepper 
and salt ; put in the liver and shake well until it is thoroughly 
dredged with flour. Put in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of 
olive oil, a teaspoonfu! of onion-juice, and six or eight drops of 
celery extract. When very hot, add the liver, and cook until a 
light brown from five to ten minutes. 



84 



Pig's-feet Saute. 

GET from your grocer pig's-feet from the Deerfoot Farm (a set 
of pig's-feet that are ah'eady cooked); have them split in 
two and rolled in cracker-dust, seasoned with pepper and salt. 
Put into the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter, and fry a 
light brown. 



85 



Deviled Ham. 

~\ /riX a large teaspoonful of French mustard, a teaspoonful of 
■^^■^ tarragon vinegar, a little salt, and a salt-spoonful of 
paprica. When well mixed, spread over both sides of a slice of 
cold boiled ham ; put a tablespoonful of butter in the chafing-dish, 
and when very hot put in the ham, and brown quickly on both 
sides. 



86 



Ham a la Fourchette. 

TN the hot-water plate melt a tablespoonful of butter; put in 
^ a cup and a half of cold tioiled ham, minced fine, and half 
a dozen cold boiled potatoes, sliced thin ; put the ham and the 
potatoes in the plate in alternate layers, and set it aside. Melt 
two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish, stir in a table- 
spoonful of flour, then add slowly a pint of rich milk; season 
with pepper and salt ; stir in two well-beaten eggs, let it simmer 
three or four minutes, then pour over the dish of ham and 
potatoes; remove the chafing-dish, and put the plate over the 
lamp until it is thoroughly heated — about five minutes. 



87 



Ham a l'Espagnole. 

PUT rather a thick slice of ham in the chafing-dish, in which 
you have melted a little butter, brown on both sides, take 
out the ham and mix with the fat in the chafing-dish two 
tablespoonfuls of very fine bread crumbs, and half a gill of 
good cider, not too hard ; season with salt and pepper and a 
little chopped parsley. Mix all well together, put back the ham, 
and; when hot, serve. 



Ham, Piquant Sauce. 

'\ /TELT in the chafing-dish a tablcspoonful of butter, half a 
'- -^ teaspoonful of mustard, a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt- 
spoonful of white pepper, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar and a 
teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, half a dozen little pickles and 
a tablespoonful of capers chopped fine, a teaspoonful of grated 
onion, and a few drops of celerv extract. When hot, stir in the 
yolks of two eggs. When smooth and creamy, add a pound of 
finely chopped ham, and serve hot. 



89 



Curry Sauce for any kind of Cold Meat. 

PUT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish with one good- 
sized onion minced fine, eight or ten pepper-corns, a blade of 
mace, two or three bay leaves. Stir until the onion becomes nicely 
browned, then add two tablespoonfuls of flour, one tablespoonful of 
curry powder, a desert-spoonful of vinegar, a pinch of salt, three gills 
of boiling water, in which a tablespoonful of fluid beef has been 
dissolved, or the same quantity of good stock. Let all simmer five 
or ten minutes, stirring constantly. Strain, and stir in any kind 
of cold meat cut in thin slices, or dice. 



90 



Fritadella. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; cook for 
■^ about two minutes a tablespoonful of very finely minced onion ; 
add a cupful of bread crumbs, and a cupful of any kind of cold meat 
minced fine ; season with salt, pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and the 
grated yel/ow rind oi a fresh lemon ; add half a gill of hot water, in 
which a dessert-spoonful of fluid beef has been dissolved, or the 
same quantity of stock. Let all simmer for about five minutes, and 
just before serving, add two beaten eggs, well stirred in. 



91 



Tripe. 

TRIPE should be chosen thick, fat and white, and should be 
boiled perfectly tender. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter 
in the chafing-dish; when melted, add a tablespoonful of flour, 
a gill of cream or a gill of milk; add three or four young 
onions, chopped fine, pepper, salt and a little made mustard. 
When well mixed, add half a pound or more of tripe, cut in 
short strips; let it all simmer about five minutes, and serve 
hot. A few oysters and a little grated nutmeg are an excellent 
addition. 



92 



Tripe Saute, 

T)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; when 
■*- ver}' hot put in half a pound of honey-comb tripe, well 
boiled, cut in strips about three inches long. When brown on 
both sides, take out the tripe and add a tablespoonful of flour, 
a small onion minced fine, and half a pint of cream. Season 
well with pepper and salt ; let it simmer a few minutes, then 
return the tripe to the chafing-dish, and serv^e when hot. 



S3 



Canvas-Back Duck. 

'"PAKE a cold canvas-back, or any wild duck, which has been pre 
■^ viously roasted for ten minutes in the oven ; divide into suitable 
pieces ; put two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish, with two 
gills of port wine and a little currant jelly ; season with pepper and 
salt, cover the chafing-dish, and cook from five to ten minutes. — 
Caterer. 



94 



Chicken a la Reine. 

T^UT in the chafing-dish a tablespoonful of butter and a pint 
-'- of the water in which a chicken has been boiled ; season 
with salt and pepper. Mash the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, 
and mix with half a cupful of fine bread or cracker crumbs, 
soaked until soft in half a pint of cream or milk ; cut the 
white meat of the chicken very fine ; mix all together, and let 
it simmer for about five minutes, and serve. If not thick 
enough, add more bread crumbs. 



95 



Chicken Terrapin, 

T)UT in the chafing-dish the dark meat of cold chicken, turkey 
-*- or grouse, cut in small slice, with half a pint of cream or 
stock, and when it comes to a boil stir in the following mix- 
ture : two tablespoonfuls of butter rubbed into a smooth paste 
with a tablespoonful of flour and the yolks of three eggs, a 
teaspoonful of dry mustard, a little cayenne pepper and salt, 
all mixed with a little cream or stock. Let it simmer a few 
minutes (not boil), and when ready to serve stir in a large 
wineglass of Madeira. 



96 



Salpicon of Chicken. 

ONE cup of cold cliicken, minced fine, one cup of boiled 
macaroni, one cup of tomatoes ; add one teaspoonful of 
paprica and a little salt. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter in 
the chafing-dish. When hot, add a gill of cream, and then pour 
in the above mixture. Stir until well heated, and serve imme- 
diately. 



97 



Canned Chicken. 

T) ICHARDSON & ROBBINS' luncheon bread. Take care- 
^^ fully from the can in solid shape; cut in slices, dip them in 
beaten egg, then in sifted cracker-crumbs. Put three tablespoon- 
fuls of butter in the chafing-dish, and when very hot lay in the 
slices of chicken ; cook until brown. 



08 



Salpicon Imperial. 

~P)UT ill the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when 
^ mehed, stir in a heaping tablespoonful of flour ; pour over 
gradually half a pint of broth and half a pint of cream. Add 
a small onion, a small bunch of parsley, a bay-leaf, and a blade 
of mace, all chopped fine ; let it simmer from ten to fifteen 
minutes, stirring often. Put in the hot-water plate the breast 
of a chicken (previously cooked), cut in small dice, and a sweet- 
bread, also cooked ; cut in dice ; pour over it all through the 
strainer the sauce, made as above. Put the plate over the lamp 
until well heated, and serve immediately with croutons of toast- 



99 



PouLET Aux Champignons. 

"r)UT into the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter and a 
■^ tablespoonful of flour. Stir until smooth ; add six mushrooms, 
sliced, and cook slowly ten minutes; now add half a pint of 
cream, pepper and salt, a teaspoonful of grated onion, and a 
very little grated nutmeg. Add a pint of cold chicken, chopped 
fine, and simmer about fifteen minutes longer, stirring often. 



PiC-CA-DEE. 

/^NE pint of chopped meat, any kind of white meat, fowls 
^ or game ; one can of tomatoes after the juice has been 
drained off, one onion, chopped fine or grated ; one half pmt 
of cream, a teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne, a few 
drops of celery extract. Put into the chafing-dish a large lable- 
spoonful of butter. When hot, add the above mixture ; cook 
ten minutes, stirring occasionally; then add two well-beaten eggs; 
cook five minutes more, and serve with hot toast. 



Salmi of Game. 

T~)UT the remains of a roast partridge in the chafing-dish, with 
-^ a small piece of raw ham chopped fine, and a small onion 
chopped fine. Put in a little lace bag, containing a clove of 
garlic (bruised), three bay leaves, three cloves and a blade of 
mace. Add half a pint of water, and let it all boil slowly half 
an hour. Remove the sac aux fines herbes, add two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, made into a smooth paste, with one table- 
spoonful of flour and a glass of white wine. Stir constantly a 
few minutes and serve. 



Salpicon of Turkey. 

r\NK pint of turkey meat, minced fine; a large sweet- bread, 
^ minced fine ; a teaspoonful of grated onion, a teaspoonful of 
lemon ; salt and pepper to taste ; heat in the chafing-dish a large 
cup of cream and two tablespoonfuls of butter; when this is 
boiling stir in a tablespoonful of flour mixed with a little of the 
cream reserved for that purpose; add the meat, and when that has 
cooked about two minutes stir in two beaten eggs ; cook four or 
five minutes longer, and serve hot with toast. 



103 



Capilotade of Turkey. 

/^UT up the remains of cold roast turkey in small pieces. Put in 
^ the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter ; when melted, add 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, stirring constantly until smooth ; season 
with pepper, salt, and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Add half 
a pint of stock or cream, put in the pieces of turkey, with five or six 
mushrooms ; let it all simmer for about ten minutes ; just before serv- 
ing^, add a glass of wine. 



104 



Salpicon of Game, 

n~'AKE remains of duck, grouse, or quail and cut in small pieces. 
■^ Put two tablespoonfuls of butter and a tablespoonful of flour 
in the chafing-dish ; stir until brown ; add a teaspoonful of 
tomato catsup and a tablespoonful of mushroom catsup, a tea- 
spoonful of grated onion, salt, pepper, and two or three drops of 
celery extract ; now add the meat, and serve when hot with 
croutons of toast. 



105 



Squabs. 



T_TAVE squabs prepared as for broiling. Put three tablespoon- 
-^ -^ fuls of butter in the chafing-dish, pepper and salt, and a few 
drops of celery extract. When very hot, pour into the dish three 
squabs and cook until a light brown on one side, and then turn 
and cook the other side. Serve immediately. 



io6 



Reed Birds. 



12)UT in the chafing-dish three tablespoonfuls of pure olive oil, 
six drops of celery extract, a little salt and pepper. When 
very hot, add the reed birds and cook from five to ten minutes. 



Reed Birds in Blankets. 

TTTRAP the birds in very thin slices of salt larding pork; fasten 
' ' with wooden tooth-picks ; fry them in the chafing-dish 
until the pork is- crisp, turning constantly. 



txjS 



JaMBON a BON GOUT. 

/^NE cup of finely-chopped cooked ham, one of grated bread- 
^-^ crumbs, two cups of hot mashed potatoes, one large table- 
spoonful of butter, three eggs, a pinch of cayenne ; mix all well 
together ; put a dessert-spoonful of butter into the chafing-dish. 
When hot, pour in the above mixture, cover, and let it remain 
about ten minutes. Serve with HoUandaise sauce. 



109 



Petit Pois. 

PUT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; when 
melted, add a can of French peas ; season with pepper 
and salt Let them cook for about ten minutes. — Caterer. 



no 



Potato Soufflee. 

MIX a pint of mashed pototoes with half a cup of thick cream 
and the whites of two eggs, beaten stiff. Put two table- 
spoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish, and when very hot put in 
the potatoes in large tablespoonfuls. When brown on one side, 
turn, brown the other, and serve immediately. 



Potatoes a la Lyonnaise. 

T)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter into the chafing-dish; when 
-'- melted, add two or three onions, chopped fine ; coolc two 
or three minutes ; then add half a dozen cold-boiled potatoes, 
sliced, well seasoned with pepper and salt ; saute a nice light 
brown. Just before serving, add a tablespoonful of finely 
chopped parsley. 



c 



Potatoes Rechauffe, 

UT half a dozen cold-boiled potatoes into slice; put in the 
chafing-dish with a tablespoonful of butter and half a pint 
of cream ; let it simmer about five minutes and then stir in a 
teaspoonful of lemon juice, a little chopped parsley, pepper and 
salt, and the beaten yolk of two eggs ; let it simmer (not boil) 
and serve hot. 



m 



Lima Beans. 

A DD to a pint of young Lima beans, previously boiled and 
-^ seasoned with butter, salt and pepper, half a pint of freshly 

gathered mushrooms. Put a tablespoonful of butter in the 

chafing-dish ; when melted, add beans and mushrooms with half 

a gill of cream ; let it all simmer for about ten minutes, and 
serve hot. — Caterer. 



114 



Fried Tomatoes. 

CUT fine, ripe, solid tomatoes in halves; dredge them with 
pepper, salt, and sifted cracker dust. Put three tablespoon- 
fuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; when very hot, cook the 
tomatoes on both sides and serve. A little onion juice is an 
improvement. 



IIS 



Tomatoes and Mushrooms, 

A DD to a pint of tomatoes, previously cooked, half a pint 
-^"^ of mushrooms, a heaping tablespoonful of bread crumbs, a 
tablespoonful of butter ; season with pepper and salt, and simmer 
for a few minutes, lone enoucrh to cook the mushrooms, and 
serve on slices of buttered toast. — Caterer. 



ii6 



Saute of Mushrooms, 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when 
-^ melted, add a tablespoonful of flour, stirring constantly. 
When smooth, add salt, pepper and a tablespoonful of lemon 
juice, a little mushroom ketchup, and half a pint of boiling 
water, in which a tablespoonful of fluid beef has been dissolved. 
Add the mushrooms, and boil until tender. 



117 



. Meadow Mushroom. 

IN selecting this mushroom crisp and heavy ones should be 
chosen in preference to light and soft ones, as being less likely 
to become leathery in cooking. Cut the mushroom across and 
remove the stem ; put in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of 
butter; put in the mushrooms, and cook them at the lowest possi- 
ble temperature from fifteen to twenty minutes, or even longer ; a 
great heat destroys the flavor. 



irR 



. Puff Ball, 

/^NE of the most valuable of the edible mushrooms. Remove 
^^ the outer skin, cut in slices half an inch thick, season them 
with pepper and salt, dip the slices in the yolk of an egg and then 
in finely-sifted cracker-dust ; put three tablespoonfuls of butter in 
the chafing-dish, and when very hot fry slowly, and serve 
immediately. 



Iig 



Agaricus Campestris. 

'QUT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter and half a 
■^ pound of the mushrooms, cut in thin shces ; cook slowly for 
fifteen minutes, then add a gill of thick cream, pepper, and salt, 
and cook slowly ten minutes longer. Serve immediately. Prepare 
the mushrooms by peeling ; the stem can be scraped, cut in thin 
slices, and cooked with the rest. 



1 20 



Fairy Ring Champignon. 

PUT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter and one of 
flour ; when smooth, add half a pint of thick cream ; when 
hot, add a pint of the mushrooms and stew slowly from fifteen to 
twenty minutes ; add pepper and salt, and serve hot on toast. 



Cantharellus Cibarius. 

Q ELECT this mushroom with care, avoiding a deleterious species 
^ called cantharellus aurantiacus. Put in the chafing-dish three 
tablespoonfuls of butter, a pint of mushrooms, pepper, and salt. 
Cut the mushrooms across, remove the stems, and cook very 
slowly. 



■Mushrooms with Bacon. 

FRY five or six slices of bacon in the chafing-dish. When 
nearly done add a dozen good-sized mushrooms and fry them 
slowly until they are cooked. In this process they will absorb all the 
fat of the bacon, and, with the addition of a little salt and pepper, 
will be found most appetizing. 



123 



Mushrooms a la Provencale, 

STEEP for two hours in some salt and pepper a pint of mush- 
rooms. Put in the chafing-dish a tablespoonful of butter, a 
teaspoonful of lemon-juice, a little finely -chopped parsley, and a 
teaspoonful of grated onion. When the mushrooms are ready cook 
them slowly five or ten minutes. 



124 



Macaroni au gratin, 

"r)UT into the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter and half a 
■^ pint of grated cheese ; now add a pint of well-boiled, well- 
drained macaroni, and stir all together until the cheese is nielted, 
when serve at once. 



125 



Tomato Puree and Macaroni. 

"["IRY a clove of garlic or a few slices of onion in two tahlespoon- 
-^ fuls of butter ; when brown, remove the garlic and stir in a 
tablespoonful of flour ; stir in a small can of tomato puiee, and 
when thoroughly heated add a cupful of macaroni, which has been 
previously cooked, and half a pint of finely-minced cold veal. Stir 
constantly until it is thoroughly heated and well mixed. Season 
with salt and pepper. 



I2d 



Dried Beef with Eggs, 

T^UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish, with 
i two -lis of cream or milk, and a quarter of a pound of 
dried beel shaved very thin; let it simmer for about ten 
tes then stir in rapidly three or four eggs; serve as soon 



mmu 

as the eggs are set. 



127 



Eggs a la Jardiniere. 

PUT into the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of fresh butter; 
when melted, add a tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms 
or truffles. Season with pepper and salt; add four or six eggs, 
beaten slightly. Stir constantly, until set, about two minutes, 
and serve hot, on toast. 



128 



Omelet. 

~3EAT three fresh eggs sHghtly with two tablespoonfuls ot 
-^ cream ; season with pepper and salt. Put a tablespoonful 
of butter in the chafing-dish, and when very hot, pour in the 
e.gg, holding the dish by the handle in the left hand ; scrape 
up rapidly from all parts of the pan the cooked &gg, letting the 
liquid portion follow the knife. The moment it is sufficiently 
cooked, which will be in forty to fifty seconds, slip the knife 
under the left edge and fold the omelet over rapidly, gently, 
and neatly to the side of the pan opposite the handle. Have 
ready a warm oval plate, reverse it on the pan, turn pan and 
plate over quickly together, and the omelet will rest on the 
plate. 



I2g 



Tomato Omelet.' 

MAKE the omelet according to directions on the preceding 
page. Just before pouring it into the pan, add very 
solid pieces of tomato, cut in small dice, over which a little 
onion has been grated. Season with a little cayenne. 



:>o 



Curried Eggs, 

T)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish; mince 
■^ two small onions very fine, and cook until they begin to 
brown ; stir in two dessert-spoonfuls of curry powder, mix well, 
and add two tablespoonfuls of flour, stirring quickly all the 
time ; then add half a pint of veal or chicken stock, or the 
same quantity of boiling water, in which a tablespoonful of 
fluid beef has been disolved. When the mixture has simmered 
gently for about ten minutes, add two tablespoonfuls of cream 
and six hard-boiled eggs, cut in slices. When well heated 
through, serve. 



131 



Fricasseed Eggs. 

T2)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish; when 
-'- melted, add a tablespoonful of flour, stirring constantly, a 
sprig of parsley, cut fine, five or six minced mushrooms, half a 
pint of white stock, veal or chicken, or the same quantity of 
cream, in which a dessert-spoonful of fluid beef has been dis- 
solved. Simmer about five minutes, and add six hard-boiled 
eggs, cut in thick slices ; boil up once, and serve hot. 



132 



Eggs a l'Espagnole. 

T^UT in the chafing-dish a tablespoonful of the best oHve oil, 
-^ in whicli cook a clove of garlic, chopped very fine ; add 
three sliced tomatoes, half a dozen sliced mushrooms, two or 
three slices of smoked beef tongue, minced fine. When very 
hot, add three or four eggs, beaten slightly, stirring rapidly all 
the time. As soon as the eggs are set it is ready to serve. 



133 



Creamed Eggs. 

r^UT hard-boiled eggs in quarters, lengthwise; make a rich, white 
^ sauce in the usual way — two tablespoonfuls of butter and one 
of flour; when smooth, add half a pint of cream and half a pint of 
milk or white stock, a little finclv-chopped parsley, and a dash of 
nutmeg ; put in the eggs, and, when thoroughly heated, serve. 



134 



Eggs a la Maitre d' Hotel. 

"P)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when 
-*- hot, stir in three or four onions, cut very fine, and cook 
until a Hght brown. Add a tablespoonful of flour, stirring con- 
stantly, a small cupful of cream or milk, a little finely chopped 
parsley, pepper and salt. Add six hard-boiled eggs, cut in 
quarters. When hot, serve. 



135 



Scrambled Eggs. 

T)UT a tablespoonful of butter in the chafing-dish, pepper and 
•^ salt ; when hot, add a gill of cream and six eggs. Stir 
constantly for two or three minutes. Serve immediately on 
hot toast. 



136 



Scrambled Eggs en huile. 

"P)UT into the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of pure olive oil ; 
-^ add eight drops of celery extract, a dash of cayenne, a little 
salt, a tablespoonful of parsiey, chopped fine, and a teaspoonful of 
onion-juice. Stir until well blended and hot, and then add six eggs, 
which have been already broken but not beaten. Stir constantly 
until they are well cooked, and serve at once. 



137 



Ham and Eggs, 

T^UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish; when 
-^ melted, add half a pound of lean, boiled ham, cut in 
small dice, a little pepper, a tablespoonful of chopped chives or 
onions, add six, eight or ten eggs. Stir constantly until the 
eggs are cooked. — Caterer. 



13S 



Welsh Rarebit. 

T)UT a tablespoonful of butter in the chafing-dish ; when 
-^ nearly melted, add a pound and a half of fresh cheese, 
cut in small dice, a teaspoonful of dry mustard, a little cay- 
enne; s/zr all the time; add a small amourft of ale or cream 
to prevent burning. Keep adding ale or cream, about half a 
pint in all. Serve hot on toast. 



139 



Cheese Fondu. 

T)UT a tablespoonful of butter in the chafing-dish ; when 
-^ melted, add a cup of fresh milk and a cup of fine bread 
crumbs, two cups of grated cheese, a salt-spoonful of dry 
mustard, a little cayenne. Stir constantly, and add, just before 
serving, two eggs, beaten light. 



140 



Cheese Crouton, 



T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of thick cream, a 
-^ tablespoonful of butter, half a pint of grated clieese, a sak- 
spoonful of paprica, and half a salt-spoonful of salt. Work these 
ingredients to a smooth paste and spread on toasted bread or 
crackers. 



141 



Cheese Souffle, 

~r)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter and half 
a pint of grated cheese (any good cheese will do) ; add two 
tablespoonfuls of thick cream, salt, and a pinch of cayenne. When 
melted, stir in three well-beaten egg?. Stir continually until the 
eggs are cooked, and serve immediately. 



142 



Paprica Welsh Rarebit, 

T^UT in the chafing-dish a tablespoonful of butter; when melted, 
-^ add a pound of grated cheese (American cream); as the cheese 
melts, stir in gradually about a gill and a half of ale, or, if preferred, 
rich milk ; add a dessert-spoonful of paprica. Mix well, and serve 
very hot on toast. 



143 



■ Macaroni a la Gruyere, 

pUT into the chafing-dish with two tablespoonfuls of butter half 
a pint of grated cheese (half Gruydre and half Parmesan), a 
salt-spoonful of white pepper, a gill of cream, and a very little nut- 
meg ; salt to taste; now add a pint of cold, well-boiled macaroni. 
Stir well, let simmer for five minutes, and serve hot. 



1-44 



Beignets de Pommes, 

npAKE some soft, tart apples, peel and remove the pips ; cut 
-^ in round, thin slices ; plunge them in a mixture of brandy, 
lemon juice and sugar, until they have acquired the taste ; drain 
them, dust them with flour. Put in the chafing-dish three table- 
spoonfuls of butter ; when z'cry hot, fry the slices on both sides, 
sprinkle powdered sugar and cinnamon, and serve very hot. 



145 



Bread Saute. 

f^lJT the crust from a thick shce of bread; put in the chafing- 
^ cHsh two tablespoonfuls of butter; when very hot, brown 
the bread on both sides, take it out, and put in two tablespoon- 
fuls of grated ham, two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, and a 
gill of cream; season with cayenne pepper. Mix all well 
together, and when very hot spread the mixture on the toast. 



146 



Warren's Prune Toast. 

/^UT the crust from rather a thick shce of Vienna bread; put 
^ in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter, and, when 
very hot, brown the bread on both sides. Pour over this half 
a pound of Warren's Prunes, which have been previously boiled 
long enough to enable you to remove the pits. Sweeten to 
taste. Add a glass of sherry, and serve with cream. 



147 



Creamed Anchovy Toast. 

QIPREAD six slices of toast from which the crust has been cut 
^ first with butter and then with anchovy paste ; put in the 
chafing-dish half a pint of cream ; put in the toast, and baste con- 
stantly with the cream until very hot. 



148 



Caviare, 

~P)UT in the chafing-dish four tablespoonfuls of cream ; when hot, 
■*- add the contents of a can or box of caviare ; when thoroughly 
heated, serve very hot on nicely- browned slices of toast with quarters 
of lemon. 



149 



Wheatena for Breakfast, 

T)OUR, very slowly, one measure of Health Food Company's 
■^ Wheatena into six measures of slightly salted, actively 
boiling water. Boil one minute ; serve with cream and sugar. 
1 to be served cold, use seven measures of water instead of 
six, and pour the mush into moistened moulds. Turn out 
when cold. It can also be cut in slices and fried in butter 
in the chafing-dish. I cannot praise too highly this delicious 
cereal. 



ISO 



•lit. 




^^ 



m. 




\ 



rET 



GN<^^0Cin.V^ 




~h 



3^ 



Boston Public Library 

This book is to be returned to the 
Library on or before the date last stamped 
below. 



M < 



■ iiii '-"n 


OSi 








































































































whQl one ean do ® 

itl7 a Cl7§^nnf-Ji 



)i^ ^ )i< 



^^^ Suide for =123==: 



AMATBUI^ GOOP^S, 



//;; 



I 



By H. L. S. 



y)<X\Aj\>e. L-l 



e ^ 



COPYRIGHT 1889, 
H L. SAWTELLE. 

7, . . 



iti 



stilwelL 1 CO. Pfl M, lee william st. , n, v. 



7T^ N Agate Chating-Dish is preferable to any other (indeed it 
is almost indispensable in using these recipes), not only on 
account of the smooth, polished surface, but the much greater 
amount of heat to be obtained quickly. The Lalange & Gros- 
jean Co., 19 Cliff Street, N, Y. -manufacture a Chaiing-Dish of 
extra size especially for the recipes contained in this book. 



'"PHIS foretaste of Epicurean delights I dedicate to an old 
friend in the Admiralty, the delicacy of whose gastronomic 
perceptions is the best authority I can offer, for the excellency 
of these recipes. 



" rpHE spirit of each dish, and zest of all, 
Is what ingenious cooks the relish call. 
For though the market sends in loads of food, 
They are all tasteless, till that, makes them good." 

— Kings Cookery. 



"tie that can grasp the golden mean, 
And is content to live between 

The little and the great — 
Knows not the wants that plague the poor, 
Nor plagues that fret the rich man's door." 

— Horace. 



H 



E THAT will have a cake out of wheat, must needs 
tarry at the grinding. — Troilus and Cressida, 



"^ ' "^E MAY live without poetry, music and art, 



¥ 



We may live without conscience, and live without heart; 
We may live without friends, we may live without books, 
But civilized man cannot live without cooks ! 
He ma)' live without books — what is knowledge but grieving ? 
He may lixe without hope — what is hope but deceiving ? 
He may live without love — what is passion but pining ? 
But where is the man that can live without dining?" 



''TftlHAT does cookery mean! It means the knowledge of 
-^^ Medea, and of Circe, and of Calypso, and of Helen, and 
■of Rebekah, and of the Queen of Sheba. It means knowledge 
of all herbs, and fruits, and balms, and spices, and of all that is 
healinif and sweet in grroves, and savory in meat. It means 
carefulness and inventiveness, watchfulness, willingness, and readi- 
ness of appliances. It means the econom\- of your great -grand- 
mother, and the science of modern chemistry, and French art, 
and Arabian hospitality. It means in fine, that you are to see 
imperatively, that every one has something nice to eat." — Ruskin. 

It means also that much may be done by taking pains with 
-a chafing-dish. 



7T COMPLETE Agate ChafingDish outfit can be found at any 
of the house furnishing stores, and the condiments required 
in the preparation of any of these recipes can be obtained from 
•any of the Grocers whose advertisements appear in this work. 

Outfit : 
Agate Chafing-Dish. 

20-inch Oval Tray. 
" Soup Plate. 
" Soup Bowl. 
Strainer. 

Lalange & Grosjean M'f'g Co., 19 Cliff St., N. Y. 



T will be noticed that the recipe used almost invariably for 
the chafinor-dish sauce, is two tablespoonfuls of Hour, mixed 
smoothly with two tablespoonfuls of melted butter ; the spoon- 
fuls of flour should be scant, even tablespoonfuls, and those of 
butter, heaping. Good stock can be made at a moment's notice 
by dissolving a dessert-spoonful of Johnston's Fluid Beef in half 
a pint of boiling water, well seasoned with pepper, salt, and two 
or three drops of extract of celery, and a small teaspoonful of 
onion juice. 



ESPECIALLY recommend the use of Johnston's Fkiid 
Beef for stock and sauces. It is an extract of the 
choicest beef, prepared (under letters patent) with scrupulous 
care, and is not only nutritive, but very palatable. It has a 
much more agreeable flavor than any of the other condensed 
preparations of beef, and for chafing-dish use it will be found to 
be almost indispensable, as many of the recipes depend for their 
excellence, partly, upon this invaluable preparation. An adver- 
tisement from the agents, giving particulars in regard to it, will 
be found amongr other advertisements in the back of the book. 



c 



LAMS. 



H- 



A\"E twenty-five clams chopped fine; put in the chafing-dish 
two tablespoonfuls of butter; when melted, add two table- 
spoonfuls of flour. Add the clams, with half a pint of their 
juice ; season well with pepper and salt, and let them simmer 
from ten to fifteen minutes. Just before serving, add a gill of 
cream, and let it come to a boil; serve hot. 



Lobster au Naturel. 

fjEAT the yolks of two eggs with two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, until smooth ; add a gill of cream ; season well with 
pepper and salt; stir in the finely chopped meat of a freshly 
boiled lobster; let it simmer for a few minutes, and serve hot. 
Do not let it boil, as that would cook the egg too much. 



13 



Lobster a la Newberg. 

n^AKE the nicest part of two small or one large lobster, cut 
into small slice, put in the chating-dish with a tablespoon- 
ful of butter ; season well with pepper and salt, pour over it a 
gill of wine ; cook ten minutes ; add the beaten yolks of three 
eggs and half a pint of cream. Let all come to a boil, and 
serve immediately. 



'4 



L 



OBSTER. 



/^HOP or shred the meat of a cold, boiled lobster, tail and 
claws ; pour over it the juice of two lemons, add half a 
teaspoonful of cayenne, and a teaspoonful of salt. Put in the 
chafing-dish three tablespoonfuls of fresh butter ; when melted, 
add the lobster. Let it simmer for about ten minutes, stirring 
constantly. — Caterer. 



15 



Fish Roe. 



J~) UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish, with 
a tablespoonful of vinegar or lemon juice. Add a shad 
roe (which has been previously boiled about ten minutes in 
salted water). Break up lightly with a fork, add the yolks of 
tvyo hard boiled eggs, mashed fine, a small cup of grated bread 
crumbs, a little chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Stir con- 
stantly until all is well mixed, and serve very hot. 



i6 



Rechauffe of Fish. 

r^UT fine, any cold boiled fish ; put in the chafing-dish with 
two tablespoonfuls of butter : when melted, add a cupful 
of bread crumbs, two eggs beaten slightly, two tablespoonfuls of 
cream or milk, a teaspoonful of anchovy paste, a little pepper 
and cayenne. Mix all well together ; let it simmer about five 
minutes, stirring constantly, and serve. 



'7 



Salmon a la Reine. 

"P) UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; when 
melted, stir in gradually a tablespoonful of flour; stir until 
quite smooth ; add a gill of water, the juice of a lemon, pepper, 
salt, a small onion, minced very fine or grated, and the yolks of 
three hard boiled eggs, mashed fine. Add a can of salmon or a 
pound of fresh boiled salmon, let it simmer about five minutes, 
and serve. 



iS 



Curried Fish. 

r^OOK one tablespoonful of onion, cut very fine, in one table- 
spoonful of butter, five minutes. Be careful not to burn. 
Mix one table.spoonful of curry powder with one tablespoonful 
of flour, and stir into the melted butter. Add, gradually, half a 
pint of milk or cream, stirring constantly. Then add a large 
cupful of any kind of cold boiled fish ; let it simmer a few 
minutes, and serve very hot. 



'9 



Saute of Scollops. 

/^UT in small pieces half a pint of scollops, which have 
been previously boiled about fifteen minutes ; squeeze the 
juice of two lemons over them; add half a teaspoonful of cayenne, 
a teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of butter; put all in 
the chafing-dish. Stir constantly for about ten minutes, and 
serve. 



BOUCHES d' HuITRES. 

T7)0LL large oysters in pepper and salt; have ready some very 
thin slices of salt fat pork ; wrap each oyster in a slice, 
and fasten with a wooden toothpick. Put in the chafing-dish, 
and cook just long enough to crisp the pork. 



s 



Oysters Sautes. 

ELECT a dozen large, fine oysters, drain the juice thor- 
oughly from them, butter the chafing-dish well, and when 
very hot place the oysters in single layers. When brown on 
one side turn it upon the other, and brown that also. While 
cooking, keep adding a little butter ; this, combining with the 
juice given out by the oyster, forms a brown skin in the chafing- 
dish, and is the very quintescence of oyster flavor. Season with 
pepper and salt ; when nicely browned, serve all, oysters and 
skin, very hot. — " Caterer." 



Cerealine Flakes— The New Food. 

Scolloped Oysters. 

"PjUT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter, and a 
gill of cream ; put in a layer of oysters, well drained, and 
sprinkle over it two tablespoonfuls of cerealine, another layer of 
oysters, more cerealine and some small bits of butter ; season 
with pepper and salt. Put on the cover, and cook from five to 
ten minutes. 



23 



Oysters a la Creme. 

]2)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter, half a 
pint of cream, a salt-spoonful of salt, san\e quantity of 
pepper, a little powdered mace, or grated nutmeg, ahd two bay 
leaves. When it boils sift in two dessert-spoonfuls of finely 
powdered cracker crumbs ; add twenty five oysters, blanched and 
drained, cook two minutes, and serve on hot toast. 



24 



Mock Oyster Stew. 

n^AKE a small piece of salt cod, which has been soaked in 
cold water over night, and cooked until soft (which should 
be done by simmering slowly, not boiling), shred it fine and mix 
well with it a tablespoonful of dry flour. Put it in the chafing- 
dish with two tablespoonfuls of butter, a dozen oyster crackers 
split ; pour over the mixture two cups of hot milk or cream ; 
season with pepper, and stir constantly five or ten minutes. 



25 



Scorched Salt Fish. 

T^ICK a small piece of the thickest part of a salt cod, which 
has been soaked over night, into long tlakes ; dry with a 
napkin; put in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; 
when verj Jiot, put in the" flakes of fish, brown a little on both 
sides, serve very hot. It is a good appetizer. 



26 



Salt Cod Fish. Dessicated. 

"QUT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when 
melted, add one tablespoonful of flour, stirring constantly ; 
add half a pint of dessicated codfish, which has been soaked for 
an hour in tepid water. Add a gill of cream and a little pepper, 
and, if you like, a suspicion of grated nutmeg. Let it all 
simmer for ten minutes, stirring occasionally. — "Caterer." 



27 



White Fish a la Provencale. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; \vhei> 
melted, add one tablespoonful of flour, and a gill of milk 
or cream. Mash fine the yolks of four hard boiled eggs, which 
mix well with a teaspoonful of anchovy paste ; stir constantly 
until it boils. Add a pound of cold boiled halibut, cod, or any 
white fish, cut in small slices, let it simmer a few minutes, and 
serve. 



28 



Saute of Oyster Crabs. 

T)UT one tablespoonful of butter in the chafing-dish; when 
melted, add two tablespoonfuls of thick cream, season with 
salt and cayenne ; when very hot, add half pint of oyster crabs, 
cook one minute, and serve. 



2Q 



Dried Beef with Eggs. 

TT^UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish, with two 

gills of cream or milk, and quarter of a pound of dried 

beef, shaved very thin ; let it simmer for about ten minutes, 

then stir in rapidly three or four eggs ; serve as soon as the 

•eggs are set. 



30 



F 



ROGS. 



T7ROGS can be purchased in the market prepared for cooking; 
cut them in halves, lengthwise ; separate the legs. Put 
three tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; when melted, 
add a tablespoonful of flour, stir until smooth, then add a gill 
of cream, then the frogs, well seasoned with pepper, salt, and a 
little grated nutmeg. Put on the cover and cook for twenty 
minutes. A little more cream or milk may be added while 
cooking. — "Caterer." 



31 



Beefsteak a la Mode. 

"r)UT a pound of beefsteak, cut about an inch thick, in the 
chafing-dish, in which two tablespoonfuls of butter has been 
melted, with two or three shces of lemon. Let it cook slowly 
five or ten minutes ; then pour over it a gill of good stock, or 
the same quantit)- of hot water, in M'hich a dessert-spoonful of 
"Johnston's Fluid Beef" has been dissolved, also a gill of port 
wine. Allow the whole to simmer slowly ten minutes longer. 
When ready to serve, squeeze the juice of a lemon over the 
steak, — " Caterek." 



Curried Veal. 

"QUT into small pieces, half an inch square, about a pound of 
cold roast veal ; put in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls 
of butter, an onion, a tart apple, and a clove of garlic, all 
minced fine ; then stir in a tablespoonful of curry powder, and 
half a tablespoonful of flour ; add the meat and pour in half a 
pint of stock, or the same quantity of hot water, in which a 
dessert-spoonful of "Johnston's Fluid Beef" has been dissolved. 
Add a little lemon juice and salt, let it all simmer slowly a few 
minutes, and serve hot. 



33 



Calve's Livpr Saute.. 

T^UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter and a 
tablespoonful of onion, minced fine. When very hot, add 
half a pound of calf's liver, cut in slices, well seasoned with pep- 
per and salt and dredged with flour. Saute on both sides, and 
serve hot, with a sauce made by beating the yolk of an egg with 
a tablespoonful of butter, a little cayenne, and a dessert-spoonful 
of lemon-juice. 



34 



Salmi of Game. 

"PUT the remains of a roast partridge in the chafing-dish, with 
a small piece df raw ham chopped fine, and a small onion 
chopped fine. Put in a little lace bag containing a clove of garlic 
(bruised), three bay leaves, three cloves and a blade of mace. Add 
half a pint of water, and let it all boil slowly half an hour. Re- 
move the sac aux fines herbes, add two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
made into a smooth paste with one tablespoonful of flour and a 
glass of white wine. Stir constantly a few minutes and serve. 



35 



Capilotade of Turkey. 

OUT up the remains of cold roast turkey in small pieces. 
Put in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter ; when 
melted, add two tablespoonfuls of flour, stirring constantly until 
smooth ; season with pepper, salt, and a tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley. Add half a pint of stock or cream, put in the pieces 
of turkey, with five or six mushrooms; let it all simmer for 
about ten minutes ; just before serving, add a glass of wine. 



36 



Canvas-Back Duck. 

/T^AKE a cold canvas-back, or any wilci duck, which has been 
previously roasted for ten minutes in the oven : divide into 
suitable pieces ; put two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing- 
dish, with two gills of port wine and a little currant jelly ; 
season with pepper and salt, cover the chafing-dish, and cook 
from five to ten minutes. — "Caterer." 



37 



c 



LiBBY, McNeill & Libby's Ox Tongue. 
LiBBY's Canned Ox Tongues— Deviled. 

UT into slices one of Libby, McNeill & Libby's ox tongues; 
put a layer of them on an ordinary dinner plate, sprinkle 
over with dry mustard, a little cayenne, and two teaspoonfuls of 
salad oil ; place over this another layer of tongue and season as 
before. Repeat this until a sufficient quantity of the tongue has 
been treated ; let it remain for three or four hours. Put a 
tablespoonful of butter in the chafing-dish, and when very hot 
add slices of tongue and brown quickly. Add more butter as it 
is required. 



38 



c 



Curry of Cold Roast Beef. 

UT some slices of cold roast beef into rather small, square 
pieces, and dredge them with flour. Chop a small onion 
fine, and fry it in two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing- 
dish ; add a gill of stock, and one tablespoonful of curry powder ; 
put in the pieces of beef, and let all simmer ten or fifteen 
minutes. 



30 



Curry Sauce for any kind of Cold 

Meat 

"QUT two tablespoonfuls of butter In the chafing-dish with one 
good-sized onion minced fine, eight or ten pepper-corns, a 
blade of mace, two or three bay leaves. Stir until the onion 
becomes nicely browned, then add two tablespoonfuls of fiour, one 
tablespoonful of curry powder, a dessert-spoonful of vinegar, a 
pinch of salt, three gills of boiling water, in which a tablespoon- 
ful of "Johnston's Fluid Beef" has been dissolved, or the same 
quantity of good stock. Let all simmer five or ten minutes, stir- 
ring constantly. Strain, and stir in any kind of cold meat cut in 
thin slices, or dice. 



40 



Venison Steak. 

TJAVE the steak cut about an inch and a half thick. Lay 
it in the chafing dish, in which two tablespoonfuls of 
butter have been melted. Season with pepper and salt. Add 
two gills of port wine, and a tablespoonful of pure red cur- 
rant jelly. Cook until one side is done, then turn, and cook 
the other side. The degree of cooking must depend upon 
your own taste. — "Caterer." 



Fritadella. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; cook for 
about two minutes a tablespoonful of very finely minced 
onion ; add a cupful of bread crumbs, and a cupful of any kind of 
cold meat minced fine; season with salt, pepper, a little grated 
nutmegs and the grated yellow rind of a fresh lemon ; add half a 
gill of hot water, in which a dessert-spoonful of "Johnston's Fluid 
Beef" has been dissolved^ or the same quantity of stock. Let all 
simmer for about five minutes, and just before serving, add two 
beaten eggs, well stirred in. 



42 



English Stew. 

P'UT any kind of cold meat, as for hash, sprinkle it with 
pepper, salt and flour, and lay it in the chafing-dish, in 
which a tablespoonfiil of butter has been previously melted, with 
some pickled cabbage or onions. Pour over it a gill of hot 
water, in which a tablespoonful of "Johnston's Fluid Beef" has 
been dissolved, a tablespoonful of mushroom catsup, and a 
dessert-spoonful of taragon vinegar. Let all simmer for ten 
minutes, stirring occasionally. 



43 



Bubble and Squeak. 

T2)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; slightly 
cook some thin slices of cold corned beef, well peppered ; 
add. some cold boiled cabbage, chopped fine, well seasoned with 
pepper and salt, a tablespoonful of pickled cucumber and onion, 
mixed, and a small teaspoonful of made mustard ; serve hot. 



44 



Tripe. 

n^RIPE should be chosen thick, fat and white, and should be 
boiled perfectly tender. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter 
in the chafing-dish ; when melted, add a tablespoonful of flour, 
a gill of cream, or a gill of milk ; add three or four young 
onions, chopped fine, pepper, salt, and a little made mustard. 
When well mixed, add half a pound or more of tripe, cut in 
short strips ; let it all simmer about five minutes, and serve hot. 
A few oysters and a little grated nutmeg are an excellent 
addition. 



45 



Tripe Saute. 

T)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafiiig-dish ; when very 
hot put in half a pound of honey-comb tripe^ well boiled, cut 
in strips about three inches long. When brown on both sides, 
take out the tripe and add a tablespoonful of flour; a small onion 
minced fine, and half a pint of cream. Season well with pepper 
and salt ; let it simmer a few minutes, then return the tripe to the 
chafing-dish, and serve when hot. 



45 



Chicken a la Reine. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish a tablespoonful of butter, and a pint 
of the water in which a chicken has been boiled ; season 
with salt and pepper. Mash the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, 
and mix with half a cupful of fine bread or cracker crumbs, soaked 
until soft in half a pint of cream or milk ; cut the white meat of 
the chicken very fine ; mix all together, and let it simmer for 
about five minutes, and serve. If not thick enough, add more 
bread crumbs. 



47 



H 



AM A L'JIjSPAGNOLE. 



T)UT rather a thick slice of ham in the chafing-dish, in which 
you have melted a little butter, brown on both sides, take 
out the ham, and mix with the fat in the chafing-dish two table- 
spoonfuls of very fine bread crumbs, and half a gill of good cider, 
not too hard ; season with salt and pepper and a little chopped 
parsley. Mix all well together, put back the ham, and when hot, 
serve. 



4S 







Minced Collops au Naturel. 

RDER from the butcher a pound of beef from the tender 
part of the round, chopped very fine, quite free from fat, 
skin, etc. ; season with pepper and salt ; put in the chafing-dish 
before it is hot ; stir constantly until it becomes very hot to 
prevent the meat forming in lumps. Saute it in its own juice 
for about ten minutes ; then add a tablespoonful of butter, a 
small onion minced very fine, a teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup 
and a tablespoonful of flour made into a smooth paste with a 
little butter. — "Caterer." 



49 



Sweet-Bread and Mushroom 

Ragout. 

"P) UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when 
melted, two tablespoonfuls of flour, stirring constantly. 
Season with salt and pepper ; add a gill of cream, a cold 
dressed sweet-bread, and a dozen mushrooms, cut into small 
dice. Let all simmer for about ten minutes, stirring often. 



50 



Veal Kidneys Sautes. 

"r)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; add a 
small onion, minced fine ; when very hot add a veal kidney 
cut in thin slices ; let them cook for about five minutes, turning 
often. As soon as they are nicely browned add a tablespoonful 
of mushroom ketchup, and either a tablespoonful of stock or a 
dessert-spoonful of "Johnston's Fluid Beef," dissolved in a little 
cream. Season with pepper and salt, and, if you like, just 
before serving, add a glass of Madeira or Sherry. 



ii 



Chicken Terrapi 



N. 



"P)UT the dark meat of cold chicken, turkey or grouse, cut in 
small slice, with half a pint of cream or stock, and when it 
comes to a boil stir in the following mixture : two tablespoonfuls 
of butter rubbed into a smooth paste with a tablespoonful of 
flour and the yolks of three eggs, a teaspoonful of dry mustard, 
a little cayenne pepper and salt, all mixed with a little cream or 
stock. Let it simmer a few minutes (not boil), and when ready 
to serve stir in a large wine glass of Madeira. 



Mutton or Lamb Rechauffe. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter ; when 
melted, add, stirring constantly, a tablespoonful of flour ; 
add a gill of water; when it boils, stir in a heaping teaspoonful 
of "Johnston's Fluid Beef," and one or two teaspoonfuls of 
mushroom or walnut catsup. Add the cold mutton or lamb cut 
in small dice, or thin slices, let it simmer about five minutes 
and serve. 



53 



Sweet-Breads. 

"QUT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; when 
very hot put in the sweet-breads (which have been previously 
boiled and prepared), cut in small pieces. Cook about five 
minutes ; take out the sweet-breads ; add gradually a tablespoon- 
ful of rtour, pepper and salt, and a gill of cream. Stir constantly 
until you have a smooth sauce, return the sweet-breads to the 
chafing-dish and serve hot. 



54 



Lima Beans. 

7T DD to ■ a pint of young Lima beans, previously boiled and 
seasoned with butter, salt and pepper, half a pint of freshly 

gathered mushrooms. Put a lablespoonful of butter in the 

chafing-dish ; when melted, add beans and mushrooms with half 

a gill of cream ; let it all simmer for about ten minutes and 
serve hot. — " Caterer," 



55 



Tomatoes and Mushrooms. 

J^ DD to a pint of tomatoes, previously cooked, half a pint of 

mushrooms, a heaping tablespoonful of bread crumbs, a 

tablespoonful of butter ; season with pepper and salt, and simmer 

for a few minutes, long enough to cook the mushrooms, and 

serve on slices of buttered toast. — "Caterer." 



56 



Potatoes Rechauffe. 

P'UT half a dozen cold boiled potatoes into slice; put in the 
chafing-dish with a tablespoonful of butter and half a pint of 
cream ; let it simmer about five minutes and then stir in a tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice, a little chopped parsley, pepper and salt, 
and the beaten yolk of two eggs ; let it simmer (not boil), and 
serve hot. 



57 



Bread Saute. 

r^lJT the crust from a thick slice of bread; put in the chafing- 
dish two tablespoonfuls of butter ; when very hot, brown 
the bread on both sides, take it out, and put in two tablespoon- 
fuls of grated ham, two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, and a 
gill of cream ; season with cayenne pepper. Mix all well 
together, and when very hot spread the mixture on the toast. 



58 



Saute of Mushrooms, 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when 
melted, add a tablespoonful of flour, stirring constantly. 
When smooth add salt, pepper and a tablespoonful of lemon 
juice, a little mushroom ketchup, and half a pint of boiling water, 
in which a tablespoonful of "Johnston's Fluid Beef" has been 
dissolved. Add the mushrooms, and boil until tender. 



59 



Potatoes a la Lyonnaise. 

"F)UT three tablespoonfuls of butter into the chafing-dish; when 
melted, add two or three onions, chopped fine : cook two 
or three minutes ; then add half a dozen cold boiled potatoes, 
sliced, well seasoned with pepper and salt ; saute a nice light 
brown. Just before serving, add a tablespoonful of finely 
chopped parsley. 



60 



Fried Tomatoes. 

/^UT fine, ripe, solid tomatoes in halves; dredge them with 
pepper, salt and sifted cracker dust. Put three tablespoon- 
fuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; when very hot cook the 
tomatoes on both sides and serve. A little onion juice is an 
improvement. 



6i 



Beignets de Pommes. 

npAKE some soft, tart apples, peel and remove the pips; cut 
in round thin slices ; plunge them in a mixture of brandy, 
lemon juice and sugar, until they have acquired the taste; drain 
them, dust them with flour. Put in the chafing-dish three table- 
spoonfuls of butter ; when very hot fry the slices on both sides, 
sprinkle powdered sugar and cinnamon, and serve very hot. 



62 



Petit Po 



IS. 



T)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; when 
melted, add a can of French peas ; season with pepper and 
salt. Let them cook for about ten minutes. — "Caterer." 



63 



Eggs a la Jardiniere. 

"r)UT into the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of fresh butter; 
when melted, add a tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms or 
trufifles. Season with pepper and salt ; add four or six eggs, 
beaten slightly. Stir constantly until set, about two minutes, 
and serve hot, on toast. 



64 



Omelet. 

"2 EAT three fresh eggs slightly with two tablespoonfuls of 
cream, season with pepper and salt. Put a tablespoonful 
of butter in the chafing-dish, and when very hot, pour in the 
egg, holding the dish by the handle in the left hand ; scrape up 
rapidly from all parts of the pan the cooked egg, letting the 
liquid portion follow the knife. The moment it is sufficiently 
cooked, which will be in forty to fifty seconds, slip the knife 
under the left edge and fold the omelet over rapidly, gently, and 
neatly, to the side of the pan opposite the handle. Have ready 
a warm oval plate, reverse it on the pan, turn pan and plate over 
quickly together, and the omelet will rest on the plate. 

65 



Tomato Omelet. 

TWTAKE the omelet according to directions on the preceding- 
page. Just before pouring it into the pan add very solid 
pieces of tomato, cut in small dice, over which a little onion has 
been grated. Season with a little cayenne. 



66 



Curried Eggs. 

"QUT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; mince 
two small onions very fine, and cook until they begin to 
brown; stir in two dessert-spoonfuls of curry-powder, mix well, 
and add two tablespoonfuls of flour, stirring quickly all the time ; 
then add half a pint of veal or chicken stock, or the same quan- 
tity of boiling water, in which a tablespoonful of "Johnston's 
Fluid Beef" has been dissolved. When the mixture has sim- 
mered gently for about ten minutes, add two tablespoonfuls of 
cream and six hard-boiled eggs, cut in slices. When well heated 
through, serve. 



67 



Fricasseed Eggs. 

T^UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; when 
melted add a tablespoonful of Hour, stirring constantly, a 
sprig of parsley, cut fine, five or six minced mushrooms, half a 
pint of white stock, veal or chicken, or the same quantity of 
cream, in which a dessert-spoonful of "Johnston's Fluid Beef" 
has been dissolved. Simmer about five minutes and add six. 
hard boiled eggs, cut in thick slices ; boil up once, and serve hot. 



68 



Eggs a l'Espagnole. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish a tablespoonful of the best olive oil, 
in which cook a clove of garlic chopped very fine ; add 
three sliced tomatoes, half a dozen sliced mushrooms, two or 
three slices of smoked beef tongue, minced fine. When very 
hot add three or four eggs, beaten slightly, stirring rapidly all 
the time. As soon as the eggs are set it is ready to serve. 



69 



Ham and Eggs. 



T)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish; when 
melted add half a pound of lean boiled ham, cut in small 
dice, a little pepper, a tablespoonful of chopped chives or onions, 
and six, eight or ten eggs. Stir constantly until the eggs are 
-cooked. — " Caterer." 



70 



Eggs a la Maitre dHotel. 

"r)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter-; when 
hot stir in three or four onions, cut ver)? fine, and cook 
until a Hght brown. Add a tablespoonful of flour, stirring con- 
stantly, a small cupful of cream or milk, a little finely chopped 
parsley, pepper and salt. Add six hard boiled eggs, cut in 
quarters. When hot, serve. 



71 



s 



CRAMBLED l^GGS. 



T2)UT a tablespoonful of butter in the chafing-dish, pepper and 
salt ; when hot add a gill of cream and six eggs. Stir con- 
stantly for two or three minutes. Serve immediately on hot toast. 



72 



Welsh Rarebit. 

T)UT a tablespoonful of butter in the chafing-dish ; when nearly 
melted add a pound and a half of very fresh cheese, cut in 
small dice, a teaspoonful of dry mustard, a little cayenne ; shr 
all the time; add a small amount of beer to prevent burning. 
Keep adding beer, about half a pint in all. Serve hot on toast. 



73 



Cheese Fondu. 

Ti)UT a tablespoonful of butter in the chafing-dish ; when 
melted, add a cup of fresii milk and a cup of fine bread 
crumbs, two cups of grated cheese, a salt-spoonful of dry mus- 
tard, a little cayenne. Stir constantly, and add, just before 
serving, two eggs beaten light. 



74 



Warren's Prune Toast. 

r^UT tlie crust from rather a thick slice of Vienna bread ; put 
in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter and, when 
very hot, brown the bread on both sides. Pour over this half a 
pound of Warren's Prunes, which have been previously boiled 
long enough to enable you to remove the pits. Sweeten to 
taste. Add a glass of sherry and serve with cream. 



75 



Wheatena for Breakfast. 

T)OUR very slowly one measure of Health Food Company's 
Wheatena into six measures of slightly salted, actively boil- 
ing water. Boil one minute , serve with cream and sugar. If 
to be served cold use seven measures of water instead of six, 
and pour the mush into moistened moulds. Turn out when cold. 
It can also be cut in slices and fried in butter in the chafing- 
dish. I cannot praise too highly this delicious cereal. 



76 



3 # Economical Delicacies « Q 

=-=-CEREALlNE FLAKES. 

Made from Selected While Coin. Superior to all other cereal preparations for making muffins, griddle 
cakes, delicious pastry, etc Send for Cook Book. 

— LIBBY, McNeill & LIBBY'S 

WHOLE OX TONGUES, in cans. 

Better than Tongues prepared at home, because more carefully cured and more evenly cooked, and free 
from waste. These Tongues are always ready for luncheons and emergencies, thus avoiding care 
and trouble. Send for Cook Book. 

—WARREN'S CALIFORNIA PRUNES. 

Different from all other Prunes, foreign or domestic. Cured by a special process, which retains all the 
rich, original fruity flavor of the Prune. ' They are adapted both for cooking and eating from the hand, 
and are as economical as they are delicious. Send for Cook Book. 



H. M. ANTHONY,. 

SOLE AGEIST, 

100 & 102 Reade Street, New York. 



The Health Food Company 

Appends a list of several of its most imjiortant Foods, with brief statements of some of the conditions in 

which they are known to be beneficial. 

PEELED WHEAT FLOUR. — An ideal " whole Wlient Flouv," jiioducing a darkish tiread very rich in 
nitrogeuoui and phosphatic elemeiUs: n wonderful builder-up. $g.oo per Ijbl. ; ^^ 75 per half barrel; 5c. per lb. 

COLD BLAST EXTRA FLOUR. — a very superior bread-making substance, making llie best liglil-colored 
bread in the world. $10.00 per bbl. ; $5.25 )iei half bbl. ; 5}^c. per lb. 

\A^HOLE ^A/HEAT GLUTEN. — Used advantageously in Diabetes, Bright's Disease, Over-fatness, and in all 
conditions in which starch proves harmful. In bo.xes. 25c. 

CE REAL CO FFE E. — a valuable fattening nutrient substitute for tea, coffee and cocoa. In boxes, 30c. 

\A/^HEATENA. — The very best Bieakfasl Fond known to man; quickly i:ooked, deliciously flavored, easily digested, 
and very nourishing. In boxes, 25c. 

UNIVERSAL FOOD. — a gt\--.n bnildi r-up in all feel)le coinlitiMiis, a jivilcil food for dyspeptics. In boxes, 50c. 

INFANTS' UNIVERSAL FOOD. — Considered superior to all other artificial foods, securing solid flesh, rosy 
complexions, gond liones, teetli and hair. In boxes, 50c. 

L,J\\^ 1 IK^ WAr" tlKo. — Relieve all stomach and bowel troul)les in babies and young children. In boxes, 50c. 

MICMAC. — Avery valuable stomachic for use in dyspepsia ninl headaches and in all choleraic or dianha^al states. 
In bottles, iisi.oo. 

VIT ALINE. — The best restorer of wasted nerves, and waning jiowers. It has proved very usefid in Diabetes, Bright's 
Disease and Cunsumplion. In bottles. i*I.nn, 

GLUTEN SUPPOSITORIES. — a local nutrient of great value in constiiiatinn and piles. In boxes, 50c. 
Free by mail on receipt of price. 

No 74 FOURTH IWENUE, NEW YORK, N. Y. 






T:> 



t14^C| 




FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC COOKING UTENSILS, 

COPPER AND TIN MOLDS, 

CUTLERY, 

EDDYS • REFRIGERATORS, 

AGATE WARE. 




LEWIS & CONGER, 

•601 & 603 Sixth Avenue. -^ 1,338 & 1,340 Broadway. 



^Johnston's pluid J^eef? 

Is the only Extiact ever offered containing the ENTIRE 

It IS not only nutritive, but very palatable, and being in the form of a conserve (or paste) may be 
spread on thin slices of bread to form a delicious sandwich, or, if dissolved in boiling water, a perfect 
BEEF TEA is at hand. Each pound of JOHNSTON'S EXTRACT OF BEEF contains the ENTIRE 
nutritious properties of twenty-five pounds of good, sound, lean of beef. The preparation is not only a 
CONVENIENT but an ECONOfVllCAL adjunct to the larder, for the speedy production of BOUILLON, 
SOUPS, FLAVORING OF SAUCES, etc. No family should be without it. 

The United States Government liave largely adopted JOHNSTON'S BEEF in the Army and Navy for 
the use of officers and men. 

DR. HARKNESS, the eminent Analytical Chemist of London, pronounces it a MOST PERFECT 
FOOD. Sold by all Fine Grocers in Glass or Tin Jars of varied sizes. 



GENERAL AGENTS FOR THE UNITED STATES. 

F^OBERT Shoemaker & Co. 

N. E. CORNER FOURTH AND RACE STREETS, PHILADELPHIA. 



Mr. Giles F. Filley, who has a record of thirty-eight years as a 

xLoulXw manufacturer of stoves, has been for many years experimenting, in 

SyttTTlTYulfNID order to overcome the great objection to baking and roasting in an 

nBSbvjufna4fi& oven containing impure air. How to overcome this objection without 

Cj^ ^"'"^llWrfNEW C H ARTER Oak '"creasing the consumption of fuel, or admitting fresli air without 

VrRJl^MHCfi: Ovci^lIao|^^|taw' cooling the oven below the baking point, was the great problem. In 

lifiad ft* Buioal (JifMlwi>= jggj ]^j^_ pj[,gy j^^^^g jj^g discovery that by inserting a sheet of fine 

wire-gauze in the oven-door, the air would pass through the gauze in the form of jets without chilling the 
air in the oven, and at the same time it created a current in the oven w-hich would carry off the impurities 
as fast as generated by the expanded air coming in contact with meats or bread. This simple appliance not 
only thoroughly purifies the air in the oven during the process of baking and roasting, but prevents the 
evaporation of the juices of the meats. Repeated experiments show that by admitting into the oven, in the 
form of jets, a constant supply of fresh air, we have roasted and not baked the meats, and that the juices 
retained are double in amount and far better in flavor than those produced in the air-tight oven. Good, 
healthful food will produce better results than any medicine you can swallow, and as the Charter Oak with 
the wire-gauze door is the only cooking apparatus that can produce pure food, it will be for your interest to 
purchase the New Charter Oak. The health of your family and friends should be your first consideration. 
We claim for the Charter Oak that it is totally different from all other stoves. Its internal construction, 
weight, extra large ovens, durability, extra large flues, extra quality of metal, perfect operation, economy of 
fuel, and above all, the wire-gauze oven-door, producing thoroughly purified food, are not to be found in any 
other stove ever made. Every dealer who secures the exclusive sale of the Charter Oak, and makes it his 
leading stove, will be enabled to work up a trade that his competitor cannot take away. It is impossible to 
obtain a duplicate pattern, as the special features of the Charter Oak are all patented, and all infringements 
are prosecuted by us to the full extent of the law. Correspondence is solicited. 

Respectfully, 

EXCELSIOR MAHJJFACTURIHG COMPy\NY, SAIHJ LOUIS. 



^ WAN amaker; s 

The biorcrest General Store in the World. 

oo 

The largest Drv Goods House in America. 

Things for Women's Use and Wear, first and foremost. 



We sell more Books than any other store between the oceans. A large assort- 
ment of French Books ; Seasides and Franklin Squares; Standard and Miscellaneous 
Works, bound and unbound, at a fair ])rice, no matter what the publisher's is. 

The newest books are always on our new-book table. Book News lifts their 
covers and tells if they're worth a closer acquaintance and gives the Wanamaker price. 
5 cents, 50 cents a year. 

Writing Paper, Envelopes, Card Engraving — as you would have them. Favors 
for all occasions, or specially designed for any. 

JOHN WANAMAKER. 



PURE OLIVE OIL 

1 KOM 

VEUVE CHAFFARD, 

JARDIN DE LA FRANCE. 



This Superior Salad Oil comes to us directly from the grower, and is expressed from Hand- 
Picked Selected Olives only. It is absolutely pure, and of uniform quality. 

It is put up for us in full quart, pint and half -pint bottles, with fjat bottoms. 

When the actual quantity is taken into consideration, the price will be found to be moderate. 

It is unquestionably the finest quality of Oil that money can buy, and has our full endorsement. 

QUARTS, - - - - Per Bottle, SI. 25, per Dozen, S 1 3.00. 

PINTS, Per Bottle, 70c., per Dozen, 7.00. 

HALF-PINTS, - - - Per Bottle, 40c., per Dozen, 4.25. 

HOTELS, CLUES AWE THE TRAEE SUPPLIEE, 



S. S. PIERCE & CO. 

IMPORTERS AND GROCERS. 
Coraer Treiont and Court Streets. -Corner HMtington Avenue M Bartioitti Streets.=^=2fl9 & 211 State Street. 



(2 o I'b SiZ^^ck Q)^ow2^n Sc Oo-. 






F.Z^OTS! 



ir-^^OTSl 



It is now clearly establislied that mir (Irand Emporium is the only representative on the Pacific Coast 
for the highest class 

kmm, leas, Collect, Wines, lik iiiHirics, iiiieral Witters itiiil Beers, 

Representing nearly every nation on the earth, and our prices are conceded on all sides below any other 

house in this city. 

Our Cigaf\ Department, 

Recently added to our business, has proved a great success, all purchasers being fully convinced that the 
value given them has never been reached before in this market. Twenty per cent, saved by all purchasers 
of Havana and Key West Cigars. Hotels and Clubs should avail themselves of this enormous saving. 



Fred'k W. Devoe. 
Jas. F. Dnimmoinl. 
J. Seaver PaKt" 




& 




/ 



l^'asufacturei: aid Im;o:tei: :: 






//^Painters' Colors 



/ 



-Xin-e i/arnisKes and japans 

lof^nef® PaltoQ and V/illi§^m Jt^. 



NEW YORK 








GRANITE IRONWARE 

Supplies the Great and Long-Felt Want of 

ff OUSE-KEEPERS FOI^ jSuiTABLE PoOKING VESSELS. 




For Broiling, Baking, BolIln<;, 
Frei»erTing. 

Is Light, Handsome, Wholesome, Dur- 
able and Easily Cleaned. 

Combines the Strength of Wrouglit 

Iron and the Polished Surface 

of Porcelain. 



THIS BEAUTIFUL PICTURE, 

12 X 28, cloth back, metal mounting at top and bottom, ready for 
hanging, can be had for 15 cents by addressing the manufacturers. 

GRANITE IRONWARE is for sale by all first-class dealers in Stoves, 
Hardware and House-furnishing goods. 

MASL'FACTl-RED ONLY BY THK 

St. Louis Stamping Company, 

ST. XiOTJIS, 1s.<LO. 

I 96 Beckinaii .SIrccI, Ni-iv York, 



BK.\IV<HI':S: 



16 Lake SIrcrl, Cliiaa^o, 
98-lOti C ro»» Sdoel, B<>«(un. 



329 F" I FT 11 AvKNiiK, New York. 



<7^HE NEW YORK EXCHANGE FOR WOMAN'S WORK mafre^ a ^peciat'l:lJ. 


o • ''D i 11 1 1 e^ 


aiib Qcz^vvavi S'avozi. SaiupCea ^evvt ^or Iw^pectlot-v, aii-h othet:> 


ptovuptd} 


'il'l'ijiJi. oiti tl'ie GlCoii^iefieeplvvq 'T^cpattmeiit can be otiiib all 


tiivvb^ o 



(•H'otnc-i'vvaie c^^ciiai, 9irtt|j^i.tv:>, olSbcuib, '"DUvwe-t 9ioff> at^-h ©alVe, Ofbetticvj 



0611 tter, etre^Pi ^qciN, a * 



^y^^/ici<l^^^^ 



^u.iich<iot\ ;>iirucb at tfve tooi-n;> op tPie §.-vrcriaticjc anb at "ii-iuate ci"touiie^. 
'^DeCicacic^ fot tl'ie Sicl'i. a .^p^?clc^l lt|. 



kX >>: <c ^ ^ W 



I CI <Sa§^pl:ei® oP §\ Cenbpy. 



Mi ii/ M/ 

/IN /K y\ 



In SeptemtiBr, IBSD, it "roill be five and t^wenty years since at Junction City, 
Kansas, vjb cnmniEncBd suppiying the wants of DfficErs and their families sta- 
tinned at Fort Riley, In 1BB5 Junction City had 3DD people-now ahout SjDDD 
Then Fort Riley, a garrison of three or four companiBS— now the finest Military 
Post in the United States, whose permanent garrison will he twelve trncps of 
Cavalry, five hatteries of Artillery, and 5DD tn 1,DDD recruits, 

Fort Riley having heen by Act of Congress, made a School of Instruction 
for Cavalry and Artillery and for Mounted Recruits, To the officers and their 
good wives of the 4th, 5th, Eth, 7th, Sth and IDth Cavalry, the 5th, 13th, IBth, 
IBth and 2Dth Infantry, and 2d Artillery, who have been stationed at Fort 
Riley, we desire to extend our compliments and thanks for many favors in the 
past. To those of regiments "who may in the future be located here, please bear 
in mind that B. ROCKWELL & CD, is headquarters for Army people in 
Junction City, 

Very respectfully, 

B. ROCKWELL & CD, 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 05494 298 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket. 



B. P. L. Binde 



APR 21 1904 



7> 




lir— 



aisiil, 




■ill 




lllll 




liiii Hi' 

|1 



iltllil 






liiiiii 





ilii: 



*:»i»»tutoitf*u»if»Jt>' 



*il,'HttltitittUtUtiti*hlttittt»'l'. 



