^ 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 

%tp,AJ: dtftjrig^ f n... 

Shelf j.$Mj!\ 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



HOUSEKEEPER'S 



COMPANION 



COMPILED BY 

BESSIE E. 'GUNTER 



■i 



For whom lie means to make an often guest 

One dish shall serve ; and welcome make the rest. 

—Hall. 




NEW YORK 

JOHN B. ALDEN, PUBLISHER 

1S89 






Copyright, 1889, 
BESSIE E. GUNTER. 



PREFACE 



It is not claimed that the receipts collected in this 
book are original with the contributors, but that they 
have been tried and are recommended by them. The 
compiler of these receipts has sufficient confidence in 
the experience and reputation of the contributors, al- 
most all of whom are personally known to her, to 
justify the hope that they will stand the test of the 
most critical. Many of these receipts have been used 
in their families for several generations, others we 
think will show that the contributors have kept pace 
with the times and selected the best of those of more 
recent introduction. 

The prime object of the compiler of these receipts 
is to raise money for a charitable object, but she also 
hopes to bring within the reach of others many valua- 
ble receipts. 

BESSIE E. GUNTEE. 

Accomack, C. H., Virginia, August, 1889. 



GENERAL CONTENTS. 



Preface, ... - 7 

List of Contributors, - 9 

Yeasts, - - - 11 

Breads, 14 

Coffee, Tea and Chocolate, 26 
Oysters and other Shell Fish, 31 

Fish, .... 45 

Poultry and Game, - - 48 

Meat Sauces, Catsups, etc., 55 

Beef, - 59 

Lamb, .... 67 

Pork, .... 68 

Vegetables, - - - 73 

Pickles, ... 86 

Preserves, - - - 101 
Fruit Jellies, Marmalades, 

etc., - - - - 110 

Canned Fruit, - - - 114 

Wines, Syrups, etc., - 116 

Cakes, - - - - 119 

5 



Fruit Cakes, - - - 120 
Layer Fruit Cakes, - - 125 
Spiced Cakes, - - - 139 
Plain Cakes, - - - 133 
Layer Cakes, - - - 143 
Icings for Cakes, - - 148 
Little Sugar Cakes, - - 154 
Molasses Cakes, - - 151 
Little Molasses Cakes, - 157 
Jelly, Blanc-Mange and Mis- 
cellaneous Desserts, - 159 
Candies, - - - 172 
Puddings, Dumplings, Frit- 
ters, etc., - - - 175 
Pies, Marguerites, Sand- 
wiches, etc., - - 193 
Butter-making, - - 200 
Soap, - - - - 203 
Miscellaneous Receipts, - 204 
Index, .... 207 



LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 



Va. 

Accomack, C. H., Va. 

Staunton, Va. 

Pungoteague, Accomack, Co., Va. 

Eastville, Northampton Co., Va. 



Mrs. Dr. Edward F. Anderson, Belle-Haven, Accomack, Co 

Mrs. Mary A. Ayres, 

Mrs. Edmund W. Bayly, 

Miss Tabbie E. Bayly, 

Mrs. EUyson L. Costin, 

Miss Corson, 

Mrs. Thos. E. C. Custis, - 

Mrs. Wm. II. B. Custis, 

Mrs. Nannie Wise Crafts, - 

Mrs, Ex-Prcst. Jefferson Davi 

Miss Sarah Doughty, 



Mrs. Dr. Sam. G.Faunt-Lc-RoY 
Mrs. James. G. Floyd, 
Mrs. Alice L. Fosque, 
Mrs. Louise Faulkner, 
Mrs. Judge G. Taylor Garnett 
Mrs. George II . Garrison, - 
Mrs. Ellen F. Gunter, 
Mrs. Sally II. L. Gunter, - 
Mrs. John J. Gunter, 
Miss May Gunter, 
Mrs. Wm. R. Hallet, 
Marion Harland, 
Mrs. Judge Jas. E. Heath, 
Mis. Edward Hopkins, 
Mrs. Mary Hopkins, 
Mrs. Abel T. James, 
Mrs. John Thomas James, 
Mrs. Sabra Joynes, 
Mrs. Alfred S. Kellam, 
Miss Sue E. Langsdale, 
Mrs. Gov. Fitzhugh Lee, 



Onancock, Accomack, Co., Va. 

Accomack, C. II., Va. 

Norfolk, Va. 

■<, - - Beauvoir, Miss. 

Onancock, Accomack Co., Va. 

Dragon ville, King & Queen Co., Va. 

Baltimore, Md. 

Onancock, Accomack Co., Va. 

Baltimore, Md. 

- Matthews, C. H., Va. 

Powelton, Accomack Co., Va. 



Accomack, C. H., 


Va. 


Accomack, C. H., 


Va. 


Accomack, C. H., 


Va. 


Accomack, C. H., 


Va. 


Onancock, Accomack, Co., 


Va. 


- Norfolk, 


, Va. 


Onancock, Accomack Co., 


, Va. 


- Baltimore, 


Md. 


Powelton, Accomack Co. 


, Va. 


Locust ville, Accomack Co. 


, Va. 


Onancock, Accomack Co. 


, Va. 


Powelton, Accomack Co. 


, Va. 


Onancock, Accomack Co. 


, Va. 


Richmond 


, Va. 



10 



LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 



Mrs. Alfred J. Lilliston, - 
Mrs. Eliz. A. Merrill, 
Mrs. Clara Nottingham, - 
Mrs. Edward F. Nottingham, 



Accomack, C. H., 

Onancock, Accomack, C. H., 

Eastville, Northampton Co., 

Eastville, Northampton Co., 



Mrs. John Evans Nottingham, Eastville, Northampton Co. 
Mrs. Lynn Fisher Nottingham, Franktown, Northampton Co. 



Mrs. Montcalm Oldham, 
Mrs. Thos. C. Pitts, 
Mrs. Virginia C. Pitts, - 
Mrs. Wm. B. Pitts, 
Posner, 

Miss Bettie Poulson, 
Mrs. Martha A. Preston, 
Mrs. Margaret Powell, 
Mrs. Henry Powell, 
Mrs. Bertie Powell, 
Mrs. Prof. B. Puryear, 
Mrs. Upshur B. Quinhy, 
Mrs. Randolph, 

Dr. Edgar W. Beftertson 

Spencer F. Rogers, 

Sue Sadler, 

P. W. Savage, 

Esther J. Selby, - 
Mrs. Edgar Spady, 
Mrs. R. D. Stimson, - 

Thos. Tabb, 

Dr. Wm. A. Thorn, 

Tyree, 

Ex-Pres. John Tyler, - 
Mrs. Mary A West, 
Miss Orelia Williams, 
Mrs. Dr. Jno T. Wilkin*. 



Mrs. 
Mrs. 
Mrs. 
Mrs. 
Mrs. 



Mrs, 
Mrs 

Mrs, 
Mrs 



Accomack, C. H., 

Onancock, Accomack Co., 

Baltimore, 

Onancock, Accomack Co., 

Onancock, Accomack Co., 
Richmond, 
Onancock, Accomack Co., 
Onancock, Accomack Co., 
Onancock, Accomack Co., 
Richmond, 
Onancock, Accomack Co., 

Onancock, Accomack Co., 

Finney's, Accomack Co., 

Richmond, 

Cape Charles, 

Accomack Co., 

Eastville, Northampton Co , 

Bay view, Northampton Co., 

Hampton, 

Eastville, Northampton Co., 



Richmond, 

Pungoteaguc, Accomack Co., 

BayvieAv, Northampton Co., 

Bridgetown, Northampton Co., 



Ya. 
Ya. 
Ya. 
Ya. 
Ya. 
Ya. 
Ya. 
Ya, 
Md. 
Ya. 

Ya. 
Ya. 
Ya. 
Ya. 
Ya. 
Ya. 
Ya. 

Ya. 
Ya. 
Ya. 
Ya. 
Ya. 
Ya. 
Ya. 
Ya. 
Ya. 

Ya. 
Ya. 
Ya. 

Ya. 



HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 



SELF-WORKING HOP YEAST. 

Boil two ounces of hops in four quarts of water 
for one half hour, strain off the liquor and let it 
stand till lukewarm, when add one half pound brown 
sugar and two heaping spoonfuls of salt. Use suf- 
ficient of the liquor to beat up one pound of the best 
flour, and gradually mix in. Let it stand till it fer- 
ments (which in cold weather may not be for a week), 
stirring it frequently, then add three pounds of 
potatoes well mashed. After it ferments again, 
strain and bottle. It will keep good as long as it 
lasts in any weather or in any place. — MRS. J. E. N. 

YEAST. 

Boil one quart of Irish potatoes in three quarts of 
water. When done, take out the potatoes, one by 
one, on a fork, peel and mash them fine in a tray 
with a large iron spoon, leaving the boiling water on 
the stove during the process. Throw in this water a 
handful of hops, which must scald, not boil, as it 
turns the tea very dark to let the hops boil. Add to 
the mashed potatoes a heaping teacupful of powdered 
white sugar and half a teacupful of salt ; then slowly 
stir in the strained hop tea, so that there will be no 



12 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

lumps. When milk-warm add a teacupful of yeast 
and pour into glass fruit jars, or large, clear glass 
bottles, to ferment, being careful not to close them 
tightly. Set in a warm place in winter, a cool one 
in summer. In six hours it will be ready for use, 
and at the end of that time the jar or bottle must be 
securely closed. Keep in a cold room in winter, 
and in a refrigerator in summer. This yeast will 
keep two weeks in winter and one week in summer. 

— MISS M. G. 

YEAST. 

Grate one pint of white potato, on which pour 
one quart of hop tea. Put this on to cook and let 
it come to a boil. Then take off the stove, and add 
one cup of salt, one of brown sugar, seven pints of 
cold water, and a pint of good yeast. Set in a warm 
place. This yeast will keep two weeks in warm 
weather and not sour, if kept in cool place. — MRS. 
T. e. c. c. 

YEAST. 

Take three large Irish potatoes, peel and grate 
them To these put two quarts of boiling water. 
Let it stand till milk-warm, then add half teacupful 
of sugar and half teacupful of salt. After it works 
use one teacupful of yeast to one quart of flour. 

— MRS. G. T. G. 

YEAST. 

Peel and grate four large Irish potatoes. Stir in 
it one quart of boiling water, half teacupful of sugar, 
one third teacupful of salt. Stir all together and 
put over a kettle of boiling water and let it cook ten 



TEA ST. 13 

minutes, stirring occasionally while cooking. Then 
let it cool and pour into it half teacupful of good 
yeast. Set away in a warm place and it will be 
ready to use in four hours. — mrs. w. b. p. 

PEACH-LEAF YEAST. 

6 medium sized Irish potatoes. 
14 peach tree leaves. 

1 quart of water. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 
I teacupful of sugar. 

3 tablespoonfuls of brisk yeast. 

Put the potatoes, leaves and water on to boil, in a 
porcelain kettle. Mix the flour, with a little cold 
water, into a thick paste. When the potatoes are 
done mash them into the flour paste, mixing the whole 
smoothly. Strain the water the potatoes were boiled 
in, into this paste, stirring all well. Add sugar 
while it is hot, and the yeast when it is luke-warm. 
Set in a warm place to rise, and bottle the second 
day. This yeast should be made once a week, as it 
is better fresh. Peach tree leaves may be gathered 
in summer, dried in the shade, and kept through the 
winter. — MRS. dr. S. g. f. 

YEAST. 

The most perfect yeast is made by boiling six or 
seven medium potatoes until done, then mash 
through a sieve and add one pint of boiling water. 
Set aside until quite cold, then add one pint of ice 
water, one teacupful of good yeast, half teacupful of 
white sugar. Let it rise in a warm place, and put in 
a bottle tightly corked. Keep in a cold place. — mrs. 
e. L. c. 



14 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

MADISON ROLLS. 

1 quart of flour. 

1 egg- 

1 tablespoonful butter or lard. 

1 medium size potato. 

1 teacupful of yeast, made by above receipt. 
Add water or milk if not wet enough. Set in a 

warm place to rise, and, when light, roll on a board 
and cut out with a round shape (top of yeast 
powder box will do). Let it take a second rise and 
bake in a hot oven ten minutes, A little salt. — MRS. 
E. l. c. 

YEAST AND BREAD. 

3 tablespoon fuls of flour. 

2 tablespoonf uls of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Scald by pouring one pint of boiling water over 
them and let stand till cool. Then add two yeast 
cakes or equal amount of soft yeast, and let it rise. 
Take one dozen good sized potatoes, boil and mash, 
then add three quarts of hot water and let it stand 
till cold, then mix with the above yeast. Let the 
whole stand till it ferments, when it is ready for use. 
Wet the flour entirely with the above solution and 
put the bread in the baking pans, and in a short time 
it will rise sufficiently to bake. — miss s. A. l. 

SPONGE FOR ONE QUART OF FLOUR. 

1 large potato. 

3 tablespoonfuls yeast. 

1 heaping teaspoonful of sugar. 
Mash the potato, mix the sugar and yeast 



BREAD. 15 

thoroughly, and set in a warm place to rise. It 
should be made about four hours before needed. 

LOAF BREAD. 

1 quart of flour. 

1 piece of lard, size of small walnut. 

li teacupfuls of water. 

The above directed sponge. 
The quantity of water depends very much on the 
flour ; some brands take more than others. Bread is 
better made as soft as it can be handled.— mrs. dr. 

S. G. F, 

TURNOVERS. 

Sponge for 1 quart of flour: — Crumble a boiled 
Irish potato in half a cup of water and let it cool. 

1 tablespoon ful of this sponge. 
1J tablespoonfuls of yeast. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 
1 tablespoon ful of sugar. 

Stir all together and set in a warm place to rise. 
This takes two or three hours, and has bubbles on 
top when well risen. 

Work the above sponge into 
1 quart of flour. 
1 tablespoon ful of lard. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

2 teacupfuls of water. 

Set to rise for five or six hours. Then roll out, 
cut in round pieces, grease, turn one side of the 
dough over, so as to make it meet in the middle of 
the round piece. Set them behind the stove to rise 
again. This takes about forty minutes. Then put 



16 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

in a hot oven to bake. This should take fifteen or 
twenty minutes. — MRS. PROF. b. p. 

YEAST ROLLS. 

1 quart of flour. 

5 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful of lard. 

1 tablespoonful of sugar. 

1 teacupful of yeast — a pinch of salt. 
Mix all together and if too stiff add a little warm 
milk or water. Knead until smooth. Set to rise 
and when light knead a second time. Make into 
rolls and set to rise again. — MRS. M. o. 

POCKETS. 

4 large Irish potatoes boiled and passed through 
a cullender. 

4 eggs well beaten. 

1 teacupful of yeast. 

1 teacupful of lard or butter. 

1 tablespoonful of salt. 

1 tablespoonful of sugar. 

1 quart of flour or enough to make a stiff dough. 

For tea make them about eleven o'clock. An 

hour or more before you wish to bake, make them 

out like biscuit, not to touch in the pan,andbake ten 

minutes in a quick oven. — mus. T. E. c. c. 

RUSK. 

Take as much yeast bread dough after first rising 

as will fill a baking tin. Beat together two eggs, one 

teacupful sugar, one small tablespoonful butter or 

lard and teacupful of milk. Work it well in the 



SALLY LUNN. 17 

dough and set to rise again (which takes about two 
hours) after which make into rolls and put in tins. 
Then sprinkle cinnamon and sugar over them and 
lastly put a small piece of butter on each roll. When 
sufficiently risen, bake. — MRS. t. c. p. 

SALLY LUNN. 

1 quart of flour. 

1-4 lb. of butter. 

4 eggs. 

1 teacupful of yeast with new milk enough to 
make a stiff batter. 

It is important to set it to rise in the pan in which 
it is to be baked. Make up in the morning for tea, 
and late at night for breakfast. Eat very hot. — MRS. 

W. H. B. C. 

SALLY LUNN. 

Warm a quart of milk, with a quarter of a pound 
of butter or lard. Beat up three eggs very light 
with two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one teacupful of 
yeast and flour enough to make it stiffer than pound 
cake. Add a little salt. Set to rise in the morning 
at 10:30 o'clock in cold weather, later in warm. 
Butter a pan an hour and a half before tea and pour 
it in. Let it rise a second time and bake an hour. — 

MRS. E. F. G. 

QUICK SALLY LUNN. 

1 egg- 

3 small tablespoonfuls sugar. 

1 pint of flour. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

1 teacupful of sweet milk. 

Butter size of an egg. 



18 HOUSEKEEPERS COMPANION. 

2 teaspoonfuls yeast-powder, stirred in just be- 
fore baking. 

Bake in an ordinary cake pan, and, when necessary, 
double the above quantities. — mes. e. f. n. 

SALLY LUNN. 

1 quart of flour. 

1 teacupful of sugar. 

1 teacupful of melted lard. 

4 eggs. 

1 pint sweet milk. 

3 teaspoonfuls of yeast-powder. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 

Bake quickly in a hot oven. — MES. J. T. J. 

MUFFINS. 

3 eggs. 

1 quart of flour. 

1 teacupful of yeast. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Beat eggs very light, add yeast and milk. Make 
as stiff as pound cake batter or so it will drop off the 
spoon. Melt a piece of lard size of an egg and stir 
into the batter. Add salt to taste. Set to rise in 
the morning if for tea. Make over night for break- 
fast. Bake in muffin moulds. — MISS M. G. 

CEEAM MUFFINS. 

5 eggs. 

1 pint cream. 

1 teaspoonful yeast-powder. 

Flour enough to make like fritter batter. 

A little salt. 



MUFFINS. 19 

Bake in puff tins, or drop like buns. To be eaten 
as soon as baked. These are delicious. — mrs. m. o. 

muffins. 
1 quart of flour. 
1 pint of sweet milk. 
4 eggs. *~~ - 

3 tablespoon fuls of cream or butter size of an egg. 

1 good tablespoonful of sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls Royal baking powder. 
A little salt. — mrs. e. f. n. 

HASTY MUFFINS. 

Beat four eggs separately. Add one quart of milk, 
one quart of flour, a small piece of melted butter 
about the size of a walnut and a little salt. Beat the 
whole until very light. They will not succeed if the 
oven is opened during the baking, that is, until 
nearly done. — MRS. T. T. 

POP-OVER MUFFINS. 
One quart of milk, one pint of flour, three eggs, 
one tablespoonful of butter. Beat whites and yolks 
separately. A little salt. — mrs. e. h. 

MUFFINS WITHOUT EGGS. 

One pint of buttermilk or sour milk, one table- 
spoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of salt, one tea- 
spoonful of soda dissolved in a little hot water, one 
and one half pints of flour. Bake in buttered tins 
immediately. — MRS. V. c. P. 

TEA BREAD. 

Three eggs beaten very light, one pint of flour, 



20 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

milk enough to make the consistency of waffle batter. 
Bake in buttered tins in a quick oven. Small tins or 
cups preferred. — Mrs. dr. w. a. t. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 

1 pint of flour. 
1-2 pint of meal. 
1 teacupful of yeast. 
Sugar and salt to taste. 
Milk enough to make batter stiff enough to run 
off the spoon. Set to rise over night. — miss M. G. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

1 pint of buckwheat flour, 
i pint of flour. 

2 eggs. 

1 teacupful of yeast. 

Milk sufficient for a tolerably thick batter. 
Set to rise over night. In morning add sugar and 
salt to taste. — miss m. g. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

1 pint of buckwheat flour. 

i teacupful of yeast. 
Make stiff batter with milk. Set to rise over 
night. In the morning stir in a little molasses and 
salt and a pinch of soda. — mrs. j. j. g. 

OATMEAL CAKES. 

Take one egg, well beaten, two tablespoonfuls of 
oatmeal that has been previously boiled, two table- 
spoonfuls of graham flour. Mix well and thin to 
the desired consistency with sweet milk. — G. 



BISCUIT. 21 

STALE BREAD CAKES. 

Take one quart of stale bread, crumble fine and 
soak well in water. Press the water from the bread, 
and add two eggs, one tablespoonful of sugar, one 
teaspoonful of yeast powder, a little salt and enough 
of the water in which the bread was soaked to make 
about as stiff as buckwheat batter. — MRS. M. c. 

waffles (sweet milk). 
One pint of flour, one tablespoonful of corn-meal, 
two eggs, one quart of milk and a small quantity of 
salt. Beat the batter thoroughly before thinning it. 
They are nicer cooked by a slow fire. — MRS. e. f. g. 

waffles (sour milk). 
One pint of flour, half pint of corn meal, one pint 
of buttermilk or clabber, which must be made sweet 
with a little soda, two eggs. Beat the eggs well. — 

MRS. E. F. G. 

MARYLAND BISCUIT. 

To one pound of flour add one ounce of lard 
rubbed in, one teaspoonful of salt and enough cold 
water to make a dry dough (it takes about one-half 
pint). Put the water in a little at a time, so as to 
be sure not to get it too moist. Then work the 
dough until in shape, lay it on a solid place and beat 
for half an hour. Don't add a sprinkle of flour after 
it is first mixed. When ready to mould do not cut 
them, but pull off pieces about the size of an egg, 
mould them in round balls and flatten them with 
your hand. Stick with a fork and bake in a quick 
oven about half an hour. — MRS, s h. l. g. 



22 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

BEATEN BISCUIT. 

To one quart of flour, add oue large spoonful of 
lard, one teaspoonful of salt and enough water to 
form a stiff dongh. Knead and beat for half an hour 
or more, until the dongh snaps and blisters. Place 
in a pan, without touching, bake in a quick oven, 
until they are perfectly hard around the sides. — 
MRS. t. e. c. c. 

WORKED BISCUIT. 

Take one quart of flour, a piece of lard size of a 
hen egg, a little salt, and water enough to make a 
stiff dough. Work well, then bake in a stove heated 
so that you can bear your hand in it. — MRS. E. J. S. 

BEATEN BISCUIT. 

1 pint of flour. 

1 tablespoonful of lard. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 
Sufficient water to make a stiff dough, (a little 
sweet milk will make the biscuit brown nicely in 
baking). Beat till you have a smooth dough that 
will blister and snap as you beat it. Bake in a quick 
oven.— miss b. p. 

biscuit. 

1 quart of flour. 

If tablespoonfuls of lard. 

li teaspoonfuls of salt. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. 

2 teaspoonfuls of cream tartar. 

Water or new milk to make into a tolerably soft 
dough (not too soft). Handle lightly and quickly. 
Roll and cut out and bake quickly. — MRS. dr. s. g. 
f. 



BREAD. 23 

MILK RISING BREAD. 

2 cups of milk. 

2 " " warm water. 
Flour sufficient to make a batter as stiff as pound- 
cake batter. Set this to rise in a vessel of warm water 
and keep it at a uniform temperature. Stir the batter 
occasionally, but with that exception it must not be 
shaken. After it has risen sufficiently pour it over 
flour enough to make a dough like veast bread. 
Knead it well and put in pans to rise. When risen 
nicely bake in a slow oven. At the second rising it 
must be kept close and warm. — miss s. a. l. 

MILK RISING BREAD. 

If you have a quart tin bucket with a lid, it is just 
the right vessel for a yeast dish. Take one quart of 
quite warm water, but not hot enough to scald the 
flour. Add one teacupful of warm sweet milk, one 
teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoon fuls of sugar and 
a little soda. Mix in flour enough to make a batter 
so thick that water will not rise on top. I set mine 
on the hearth of the cook stove. If the fire gets too 
warm, set it under the stove a little while, then return 
to the hearth. If you keep the yeast at the right 
temperature, you will have a nice bucket of foaming 
yeast in six hours. Then get your bread-pan, put in 
about four quarts of flour, a teaspoonful of salt, and 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Pour the yeast into the 
flour and mix the bread, adding enough warm milk 
to use up all the flour, making the dough rather soft. 
Knead until the hands will cleave from the dough. 
Make small loaves and bake in quick oven. The 



24 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

loaves must have one hour to rise, before baking, in 
a warm place. — G. 

CORN BREAD. 
Three eggs beaten separately, one pint of sifted 
meal, one pint of sweet milk, butter size of -.an, egg, a 
little salt, two teaspoonfuls of yeast powder, one 
tablespoonful flour. Beat all together, lastly stir in 
the whites of the egg. — MRS. M, o. 

PUDDING BREAD. 

One pint of searched meal, one tablespoonful of 
flour, one small teacupful of cream, three eggs well 
beaten, one fourth of a small teaspoonful of cream- 
tartar, sweet milk sufficient for a thin batter and a 
little salt. Bake in a baking pan or tin. A pinch of 
soda can be added. — mrs. e. j. s. 

PAN BREAD. 

One pint of buttermilk, sufficient soda to make it 
sweet, one pint of corn-meal, three eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of salt. Beat the eggs very light, then add 
the other ingredients. Add hot water to make the 
desired consistency. If clabber or sour milk is used, 
add a little lard or butter. Bake in an earthenware 
pan. This is very nice baked on a griddle as batter- 
cakes — MRS. E. E. G. 

PAN BREAD. 

Two eggs, one pint of sweet milk, one light pint of 
corn-meal. — Miss B. P. 

AUNT LYDIA'S CORN BREAD. 

Pour one pint of boiling milk on one quart of sifted 



BREAD. 25 

corn-meal, one level teaspoon ful of salt. Beat very 
hard, add one quarter pound of butter, and five eggs 
beaten separately. Beat all together very hard. 
Bake in small tins quickly. Fill full ; if well beaten, 
they will not run over. — MBS. V. c. P. 

CORN MUFFINS. 
Scald one pint of corn-meal witli boiling water. 
Beat smooth, add one teaspoonful of salt, one table- 
spoonful of butter. When cool add one pint of milk 
and four eggs, beaten separately. Bake in buttered 
rings. — MRS. V. C. P. 

BUNS. 
Take one pint of meal, one egg, enough sweet milk 
to make of right consistency to drop smoothly from a 
spoon, a little salt. — MRS. T. E. c. C. 

MARYLAND YELLOW PONE. 

Scald three quarts or one gallon of meal. Let it 
stand until cool, then add half teacupful of flour. 
Stir with cold water until the ordinary consistency of 
corn-meal batter, and salt to taste. The art in this 
bread is entirely in the lightening and baking. It is 
necessary to have a small oven, which you can set 
inside the stove as it bakes too quickly in fiat tins. 
Make up after dinner and pour it in the oven which 
must be slightly greased. Set the oven with the lid 
on, on the back part of the stove (mine is a range) 
where the bread will lighten gradually, but not bake, 
until tea is over. Then take the lid off the oven, set 
the oven inside the stove and have a good coal fire, 
and let the Dven remain till morning. A thick crust 



26 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

forms on top which you remove as you cut the bread, 
only a plate full at a time. You will find the bread as 
yellow and almost as sweet as pound-cake. Remove 
the crust only as you cut the bread, as that keeps it 
moist. You can set the oven in the stove and warm 
the bread as you like. This is the genuine " Old 
Yellow Pone of Maryland." It is so " fussy," don't 
know how it will sound in a receipt book, but the 
bread is excellent. — MRS. B. p. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

One pint of Graham flour, one of bolted flour, half 
teacup of brown sugar, teacup of j east, a piece of lard 
the size of an egg^ a little salt. Knead well and set 
in a warm place to rise. — MRS. t. e. c. c. 



COFFEE, TEA, AND CHOCOLATE. 

COFFEE. 

Take two pounds of good Java Coffee. Put it in 
a pan with a piece of lard the size of a hickory nut, 
to make it brown nicely. Roast slowly, stirring con- 
stantly, to keep from burning, until it is of a light 
brown color. To three pints of boiling water put five 
good tablespoonful or a good gill of ground coffee. 
Boil at least ten minutes, then take off and settle with 
a little cold water. Let it stand a short time before 
taking it to the table, so that it may settle well. 

— MRS. M. A. A. 

coffee (dripped?) 
i pint of coffee. 
8 coffee cups of boiling water. 
Grind the coffee, take out the upper strainer of drip 



COFFEE, TEA, CHOCOLATE. 27 

coffee-pot, put in the coffee, put on the strainer and 
pour in the water. — MRS. DR. s. G. F. 

coffee (boiled.) 
Half-pint of ground coffee to one quart of boiling 
water. The white of one egg and half cup of cold water. 
Boil ten or twelve minutes, then pour in the half cup 
of cold water and let it settle five minutes before 
pouring out. — MRS. DR. S. G. F. 

TEA (green.') 
Two teaspoonfuls green tea, one large cupful of 
boiling water. Scald the tea-pot, pour in enough 
water to cover the leaves, let it stand a little while, 
then pour in the remainder of the water, and let it 
keep very hot but not boil until you are ready to 

Use it. — MRS. DR. S. G. F. 

TEA (black.) 
Half tea cupful of best Fomosa Oolong tea, one 
and one half-pints of boiling water. Scald the tea- 
pot, put in the tea and pour the water over it. Boil 
fifteen minutes. If too strong, weaken with boiling 
water. — miss M. G. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Scrape fine one square of Baker's chocolate. Put 
it in a pint of boiling milk. Boil five minutes, stir- 
ring constantly. Sweeten to taste. — miss m. g. 

A NICE ADDITION TO CHOCOLATE. 

The whites of two eggs beaten light, half pint of 
cream. Whip together, add sugar and vanilla to taste. 
Put a dessert-spoonful on each cup. — MRS. U. B. Q. 



28 SO VSEKEEPER S COMPANION. 

EGGS. 

BOILED EGGS. 

Let the water be boiling when you put the eggs in 
and boil two and a half or three minutes as preferred. 
— G. 

BOILED EGGS. 

Boiled-eggs to be hard should boil at least fifteen 
minutes. To make soft-boiled eggs : pour over them 
boiling water, and set near the fire on the hearth for 
seven minutes. They will then be done evenly 
through, if boiled the white is apt to get hard. — MRS. 
v. c. r. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Let the eggs be perfectly fresh and let there be 
boiling water at least two inches deep in the pan. 
Break the eggs carefully, just over the water or in a 
spoon, so that they may be slipped into the water 
with their shape preserved. Take them up in a large 
perforated spoon. Cover with fresh melted butter 
and sprinkle with salt. Never pepper as some per- 
sons do not use it, and it mars the appearance of the 
dish. — MRS. s. T. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Beat eggs very light and season with a little 
pepper. Have the pan very nice and clean and dry. 
Heat the pan, grease sufficiently with butter to season 
the eggs, then pour in the eggs and stir constantly 
till done. — G. 

EGG MULLED IN TEA OR COFFEE. 

.Prepare a cup of tea or coffee to taste. Pour 



EGGS. 29 

gradually on an egg, beat well while mixing. This 
is nourishing and palatable for invalids. — MRS. V. 
c. P. . 

OMELETTE. 

Beat the yolks and whites of five eggs separately 
till light. Add to the yolks a small portion of the 
whites and a half a teacup of lightly sifted flour. 
Beat well, then add the balance of whites, two and 
one half teacupfuls warm water and a teaspoonful 
of salt. Fry a light brown in boiling butter, fold 
double and serve hot. — MRS. dr. j. t. W. 

OMELETTE. 

One egg, one tablespoonful of floui\ half-gill of 
milk, piece of butter size of a hickory nut, a little 
pepper and salt. The yolk of the egg and the other 
ingredients to be beaten together thoroughly, then 
beat and add the white of the egg to it. Put in your 
tin and bake quickly. — G. 

OMELETTE. 

Heat three gills of milk with a dessert-spoonful of 
butter. Beat four or five eggs thoroughly with a 
tablespoonful of flour, a teaspoonful of salt and a 
little cold milk. Mix the eggs and flour with the 
cold milk, stirring fast. Put the mixture in a buttered 
dish large enough to hold it. A very palatable and 
beautiful dish for breakfast. — MRS. N. W. C. 

OMELETTE. 

Heat a frying-pan with enough butter to cover the 
bottom of the pan. While the pan is being heated, 



30 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

beat three eggs with a salt-spoonful of salt and a 
quarter of a salt-spoonful of pepper, and pour them 
into the pan. As the eggs cook break them with a 
fork and lift them a little from the pan, so that the 
uncooked part can run down on the pan. Continue 
to do this until the omelette is cooked as much as 
desired. Fold together, turn out on a hot dish and 
serve. — miss c. 

FRIED BAKER'S BREAD. 

Instead of baker's bread, porous yeast bread with- 
out lard can be used. Slice as usual, dip in a sauce 
made of milk and eggs, seasoned to taste with pepper 
and salt, and fry brown in melted lard or butter. 
"Nice breakfast dish with omelette. — MRS. dr. e. 

VY. R. 

BEAUREGARD EGGS. 

5 eggs. 

1 tablespoon ful of corn starch. 

i pint of milk. 

Lump of butter size of walnut, salt and pepper 
to taste. 
5 squares of toast. 
Boil the eggs twenty minutes. Take off their shells, 
chop the whites fine and rub the yolks through a 
sieve. Do not mix them. Now put the milk on to 
boil, rub the butter and corn starch together and add 
to the boiling milk. Now add the whites, salt and 
pepper. Put the toast on a hot dish, cover it with a 
layer of this white sauce, then a layer of the yolks, 
then the remainder of the whites and then the re- 
mainder of the yolks. Sprinkle the top with a little 



OYSTERS AND OTHER SHELL FISH. 31 

salt and pepper, stand in the oven for a minute or 
two and serve. This is good and sightly. — MRS. WM. 

H. B. C. 

EGGS WITH CREAM. 

Boil hard one dozen eggs; put them in cold water 
to get cold ; then peel and slice with care, in a baking 
dish which has been greased with butter, putting in 
alternate layers of egg^ bread crumbs, pepper, salt 
and butter until the dish is filled, butter on top. 
Pour on a cup of cream, bake until brown.— MRS. 

T. E. C. C. 



OYSTERS AND OTHER SHELL FISH. 

RAW OYSTERS. 

Pour cold water over the oysters in order to cleanse 
the shell before opening. Then open carefully, taking 
pains to keep them whole. They should be eaten as 
soon as possible after being opened. Let each one 
season them to suit the taste. A very pretty way to 
serve them is to scoop out a hole in a block of ice 
and put the oysters in that instead of in a dish. — G. 

OYSTER FRICASSEE. 

Melt one small cup of butter in a spider, put in 
two quarts of drained oysters, let them boil up once, 
push back from the fire and add one cup of milk, 
pepper to taste, one tablespoonful of flour, mixed in 
cold milk. Push back and cook until the oysters are 
done. Then add two beaten eggs, and pour over hot 
toasted crackers. — MRS. u. B. Q. 

TO ROAST OYSTERS. 

Roasted oysters are troublesome but good. Wash 



32 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

and put on hot coals the oysters in the shell, the deep 
shell downwards to prevent the juice escaping. When 
they open, take off the upper shell, add a small piece 
of butter to each oyster. Loosen the oyster and 
serve hot on the shell. 

Or put the oysters in a baking-pan, cover them 
over. When they open serve as above. Another 
way, and the easiest, is to select large deep shells, 
wash them, lay them in a baking-pan, put in the 
oven. When hot enough to melt quickly a small 
piece of butter, lay an oyster in each shell, close the 
oven. When the oysters curl on the edge, serve on 
the shells immediately. All oysters should cook 
quickly and be eaten hot. — MRS. V. c. P. 

PANNED OYSTERS. 

These are nearly as good as roasted oysters and 
not so troublesome. Put in a sauce-pan, over the 
fire, enough butter to cover the bottom when melted. 
When hot, pour in one quart of nice oysters, shake 
the pan until the oysters curl. Serve hot on toast. 
Some of the liquor may be added to the oysters in 
the pan. — MRS. v. c. P. 

STEWED OYSTERS. 

Have the vessel hot, then take the oysters out of 
their own liquor (never wash them in fresh water), 
with a fork, and put them in the vessel, stining them 
so as to prevent burning or scorching. Cook quickly, 
when half done add to each quart of 03'sters, a piece 
of fresh butter the size of a large hen egg^ half pint 
of cream or rich milk, the yolks of two eggs well 
whipped up, pepper and salt to taste and serve hot. 
— JUDGE G. T. G. 



OYSTERS AND OTHER SHELL FISH. 33 

. SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Put in the scallop shells as many oysters as each 
shell will hold. Season with butter, salt and pepper, 
and a few dry bread-crumbs. Add a piece of butter 
just before serving. — MRS. s. T. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Drain the oysters, place a layer of rolled cracker 
in the bottom of a buttered dish, then a layer of 
03'sters. Sprinkle with pepper, salt and small bits 
of butter. Moisten with a little of the liquor, mixed 
with milk, then a layer of cracker, then oysters, and 
so on until the dish is full, having crumbs on top. 
Beat an egg into a little milk and pour over the 
whole and sprinkle with small bits of butter. Cover 
and bake half an hour. Remove the cover and brown 
on top before sending to the table. — MRS. A. t. j. 

OYSTER PIE. 

Fill an earthenware pan three-fourths full of 
oysters. Season with butter, pepper and milk. On 
sides of pan and on top, place rich pastry cut in thin 
strips and laid across each other so as to form squares. 
— miss M. G. 

OYSTER PIE. 
Line a deep baking dish with rich pastry rolled 
thicker than for fruit pies, stick with a fork and bake. 
Pepper and salt the oysters, dredge them with, flour, 
add lumps of butter, fill the dish three-fourths full, 
pour in the oyster liquor, cover with pastry and bake 
half an hour. Or you can stew the oysters, while 
the pastry is baking, pour in hot and serve imme- 
diately. — MRS. V. c. P. 



34 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

TO ERY OYSTERS. 

Have large fat oysters, take them on a fork, and 
clip one at a time, in yolks of two eggs well beaten, 
then in cracker dust, and fry in boiling hot lard. 
— MRS. JUDGE G. T. G. 

TO BROIL OYSTERS. 

Put the required quantity of oysters in a cullender 
and drain off the juice. Then place them in a pan as 
if to stew, until all the liquor disappears. Then a Id 
pepper, salt and butter and turn them until they are 
brown. Then place the oysters on the toast pre- 
pared and pour melted butter over the whole. — MRS. 

M. H. 

PICKLED OYSTERS. 

Wash fifty oysters in their liquor, wipe them dry. 
Strain the liquor, add to it one dessert-spoonful 
pepper, salt, whole mace and cloves, and one pint of 
vinegar. Let the 03'sters come to aboil in the liquor, 
then drain them off with a skimmer. Boil up the 
seasoned liquor, skim it, and when cold, pour over 
the oysters. — mrs. w. r. h. 

SPICED OYSTERS. 
Pick and strain the' oysters, wash them in a part 
of their own liquor, put the rest of the liquor on the 
fire. Boil and skim, add a few blades of mace, a few 
cloves and allspice and a small pod of red pepper and 
the oysters. When they have plumped and the 
gills curl, set them to cool. When cold, add vinegar 
to taste and sliced lemon. To each gallon of large 
salt-water oysters, one tablespoonful of mace, one of 
allspice, two dozen cloves, and half-pint of cider- 



OYSTERS AND OTHER SHELL FISH. 35 

vinegar is the usual rule on the eastern shore of Vir- 
ginia.— MRS. V. C. P. 

PICKLED OYSTERS. 

Take one gallon oysters, pick them out with a fork 
and put them in a vegetable dish. Slice a lemon, 
and with a half teaspoonful salt, a large pinch of 
red pepper, put the oysters on to stew. Stew them 
until they are done, then take them out with a skim- 
mer. Then pour the liquor in which they were 
stewed into a pitcher. Take one pint of vinegar, 
put in a stew-pan with a lid, allow it to come to a 
boil. Put in the vinegar a pinch of cloves and mace 
and a tahlespoonful of allspice. Take off the fire. 
Then mix with one pint of the spiced vinegar, one 
pint of the liquor in winch the oysters were stewed, 
and pour over the oysters. If that does not cover 
them well, take half cupful of cold vinegar, some of 
the liquor in which the oysters were stewed and 
cover them well. — MRS. s. s. 

PICKLED OYSTERS. 

Use only the largest and best. Drain them, lay 
them in a pan and pour on boiling water. Stir them 
once or twice, then rinse them well in cold water. 
Put them in a kettle with fresh water and let boil up 
once. Fish out the oysters and lay on a dish or 
clean towel. Put the liquor of the oysters over the 
fire with some good vinegar, salt, cloves and cinna- 
mon. When this boils throw in the oysters and let 
them remain five minutes. To be served when cold. 

— MRS. c. N. 



36 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

OYSTER SOUP. 
To each, pint of oyster liquor, add a pint of milk, 
red pepper pods to taste (usually one), a little 
mace. When it boils skim it, add a root of chopped 
celery, quarter pound of butter (rolled in flour) and 
the oysters. Let come to a boil and serve hot. — MRS. 
V. c. P. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

One quart of oysters and the strained liquor from 
them ; put on in a porcelain-lined kettle and stew 
ten minutes. Then beat the yolks of two eggs with 
about two tablespoonf uls of flour and thicken. Add 
one quart of new milk, a teaspoonful each of 
salt and pepper or a tablespoonful of grain pepper, 
and a quarter of a pound of butter. Boil five minutes 
longer and pour out immediately in a tureen with 
slice of toasted bread. If it stands at all it is not 
good. Clam soup is made in the same way. Also crab 
soup, except the latter requires a bunch of fresh 
thyme in it and a little water. Of course the crabs 
are just boiled and picked up and put on with milk 
at once. — mrs. e. l. c. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Two quarts of oysters, one quart of milk, three 
tablespoonfuls of butter and one teacupful of water. 
Strain the liquor from the oysters, add to it the water, 
and set it over the fire to heat slowly in a covered 
vessel. When it is near boiling, season with pepper 
and salt. Add the oysters, and let them stew until 
they ruffle on the edge (this will be in about five 
minutes). Then put in the butter with the milk, 



OYSTERS AND OTHER SHELL FISH 37 

which has been heated in a separate vessel, and stir 
well for two minutes. — MRS. w. it. H. 

BOILED CLAMS. 

Put them in a pot of cold water and boil until the 
shells open. Then take them out of the water and 
take the clam out of the shell. Put on a warm dish 
and season with melted butter and pepper. — G. 

TO ROAST CLAMS. 

Put them in the stove and let them stay until the 
shells open. Take them out, take the clam from the 
shell, put on a warm dish and season with butter and 
pepper. 



TO FRY CLAMS. 

Take one dozen raw clams. Open them and chop 
them very fine on a hard board. Mix them with one 
egg well beaten, a little flour and pepper. Then fry 
in lard. — G. 

CLAM SOUP. 

Boil the clams till nearly done (about fifteen min- 
utes), then open and chop fine. To twenty clams 
put one half-gallon of water, one onion, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, a small bunch of parsley or 
thyme (if you have it). Just before taking off, add 
one quart of rich milk, and thicken with flour. — MRS. 

JUDGE J. E. H. 

CLAM SOUP. 

Fifty clams, one quart of milk, one pint of water, 
two tablespoonfuls of butter. Drain on the liquor 
from the clams and put it over the fire- add salt to 



38 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

taste and let boil ten minntes. Then put in the 
clams, boil a half-hour quite fast, keeping the pot 
closely covered. At the end of the half-hour add 
the milk, which has been scalded but not boiled in 
another vessel. Boil again, taking care lest the soup 
burn, and put in the butter and serve immediately. 
Add one heaping teaspoonful of curry. If you de- 
sire a thicker soup, stir a heaping tablespoonful of 
rice-flour, put in with the hot milk. — MRS. w. B. H. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

Open about thirty clams and chop fine ; two nice 
size potatoes cut in blocks ; a slice of pork, cut as the 
potatoes; one pint of tomatoes; an onion cut fine. 
Put this on to cook in about a pint of water, boil a 
half hour or longer, then add a little pepper, half a 
pint of milk, a piece of butter the size of an egg^ or 
a little cream. Don't let it boil too dry, but let it be 
the consistency of vegetable soup when done. Season 
with a little thyme and serve hot. — MRS. t. e. c.c. 

DEVILLED CLAMS. 

Open carefully, so as not to break the shells, chop 
well, then mix with bread-crumbs, pepper and a little 
cream. Fill each shell, grate a little bread over the 
tops, add a small lump of butter, and bake until 
brown. Very nice for breakfast. — MRS. T. E. c. C. 

SCALLOPED CLAMS. 

Wash the shells of three dozen large hard-shell 
clams and put them over the fire in a sauce-pan with 
a close cover until the shells open, or use two large 
bunches of soft-shell clams, well washed, putting 



OYSTERS AND OTHER SHELL FISH. 39 

them to bake in little dishes or scallop shells instead 
of clam shells after they are cooked. Peel and chop 
a medium size onion and fry it light brown with two 
tablespoonfuls of butter; chop the clams rather fine; 
when the onion is light brown, stir with it two table- 
spoonfuls of dry flour, add the chopped clams to- 
gether with a cupful of rich milk or a little cream ; sea- 
son them with a level teaspoonful of salt, quarter of 
salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg and as much cayenne 
pepper as can be taken up on the point of a small 
knife blade; stew the clams gently for half an hour. 
Meantime arrange within a large dripping-pan some 
of the shells of the clams washed quite clean, or use 
instead some small dishes or silver scallop shells. 
When the clams are done, remove the sauce-pan con- 
taining them from the fire, stir in the yolks of six raw 
eggs," and put the mixture into the shells ; set them 
in a very hot oven until they are slightly browned, 
and then serve them very hot, laying the shells or 
dishes on hot plates. — miss. C. 

TO PICK UP TERRAPIN. 

Before cooking a terrapin allow it to swim about 
for three or four hours in cold water to cleanse it. 
Then wash it off and take it out and plunge it head 
first into a pot of boiling water. This will kill it in- 
stantly. Cover the pot up tight. Boil until feet skin 
easily, Then take off the feet, removing from them 
the skin and toe nails. Take off the under shell and 
take from it any meat that may cling to it. Remove 
the head and tail and carefully take the gall from the 
liver and any portion of the liver which looks greenish. 
It is best to cut all the liver possible off first and theu 



40 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

remove the gall. Do not pull or squeeze it or it will 
surely break. Remove the sand bag, which is a 
brown spongy substance which lies under the top 
shell on either side of the ridge and can easily be dis- 
tinguished. Pour all the remaining contents of the 
upper shell into a stew pan (leaving the four quarters 
as little picked up as possible) and stew with butter, 
milk and cream and season with salt, and pepper if 
desired. Some use wine, I do not. — miss m. g. 

TERRAPIN with CREAM sauce. 
Take a tablespoonful of butter and one of flour 
and put them into a sauce-pan over the fire until 
they bubble. Keep stirring until they are smoothly 
mixed, then begin to add cream or rich milk, stir- 
ring all the time. To one pint of terrapin meat, liver 
and juice, you allow one pint of cream. Season with 
salt, a little cayenne pepper and grated nutmeg, and 
then add the terrapin meat. After the terrapin be- 
comes scalding hot in the sauce, and just before it is 
ready to serve, add the yolks of four raw eggs, beaten 
up a little, one gill of Madeira wine, a tablespoonful 
of lemon juice, and serve. — miss c. 

TURTLE. 

Boil the turtle just as you would terrapin ; pick it 
up, then add pepper, salt, cream, milk about a pint, 
a nice size piece of butter, about a cup of water. Cook 
this about twenty minutes. Have ready four hard 
boiled eggs, cut in small pieces. Just before done 
add the boiled eggs, also an egg well beaten, and stir 
in quickly. — MRS. T. E. a 0\ 



OYSTERS AND OTHER SHELL FISH 41 

STEWED LOBSTER. 

Choose a live lobster which seems heavy in propor- 
tion to its size. Have over the fire a large potful of 
boiling water, containing a handful of salt. Plunge 
the lobster head first into the boiling water, which 
will kill it at once, and boil it steadily for twenty 
minutes or until the shell turns red. Take it out and 
as soon as it can be handled break off the claws and 
tail, and carefully remove the soft fins which lie close 
to the body where the legs join it. I find an ordinary 
iron can-opener very useful in breaking apart the 
shell of the lobster. After the shell is separated so 
that the flesh can be reached, save all the green fat 
and coral, and the white, curd-like substance which 
lies close to the shell ; remove all flesh from the claws 
and body, and cut it in half inch pieces. Make a 
sauce by melting a tablespoonful of butter over the 
fire with a tablespoonful of flour; when they bubble, 
gradually stir into them a pint of boiling water, or 
milk and water. Stir the sauce thus made until it 
is free from lumps, and has boiled two minutes. Then 
season it with a level teaspoonful of salt and quarter 
of a salt-spoonful each of white pepper and grated 
nutmeg. Add the lobster with all the coral and fat, 
and let it get scalding hot; then stir in, according to 
choice, either one tablespoonful of vinegar, lemon- 
juice or any good table-sauce or the yolk of a raw 
egg, and serve it immediately. Never put in the 
vinegar, table-sauce, lemon-juice or egg until just be- 
fore the lobster is dished. When a richer dish is 
desired, use, in making the sauce, half a pint of boiling 
water and half a pint of cream, and omit the vinegar, 



42 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

table-sauce or lemon-juice. The yolk of the egg may 
be used with the cream. — miss c. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Extract the meat from the body and claws of 
a boiled lobster, cut it small ; mash the coral well 
with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs ; mix with the 
lobster meat ; season with a little salt and cayenne and 
a spoonful of mustard. Pour over all the beaten 
yolks of two raw eggs, beaten until thick as cream 
with four tablepoon fuls of salad oil', two tablespoonf uls 
of vinegar. Serve on lettuce leaves. — MRS. v. c. p. 

LOBSTER CHOWDER. 

Put the lobster in a stew-pan with butter, pepper, 
salt, cream or cup of milk or more. Boil ten or 
fifteen minutes. Just as you take it from the stove, 
stir in a well beaten egg quickly, and serve hot. — 
MRS. T. E. c. c. 

TO PICK UP CRAB. 

After boiling or steaming, break off the claws, 
crack them and take out the meat. Then remove 
the upper shell and take out carefully the dead men 
and sand bag. Then separate the meat from the 
bones. — MRS. J. J. G. 

SOFT CRAB. 

Raise the back of the live crab, remove the dead 
men, fry in butter. Serve in cream gravy seasoned 
with salt and pepper. — MRS. V. c. P. 

HARD CRABS FRIED. 

Take off the shell and claws, while alive. Take 



OYSTERS AND OTHER SHELL FISH. 4.3 

out the fat and put in a dish ; take out the dead men 
Roll the crabs with the rolling-pin to break the shells. 
Sprinkle them with salt, pepper and flour. Fry in 
butter. When done, take from the pan, add to the 
gravy more butter, the fat, and the meat picked from 
the large claws. When they have fried awhile, add 
a cup of cream, stir well a few minutes, then pour 
over the crabs. If parsley is liked, add a little to the 
gravy, chopped fine. I kill the crabs by steam before 
breaking them ; do not cook them. — MRS. v. c. P. 

TO COOK CRABS AND CRAB SALAD. 

Put a few small sticks of wood in a pot or kettle. 
Then put in the crabs and pour over them enough 
vinegar to keep them from burning ; cover and 
steam. When done, take them out and pick them 
up. They may be eaten with a dressing of melted 
butter, Worcester sauce, mustard, pepper and vinegar, 
or made into cakes, seasoned in the above manner 
and fried. — MRS. judge g. t. g. 

DEVILLED CRABS. 

Cook as above directed. Then pick them up fine 
and add grated cracker, mustard, Worcester sauce, 
red and black pepper, salt and butter. Then return 
them to the top shell and bake. — MRS. judge g. t. g. 

TO DEVIL CRAB. 

Boil the crabs and pick up. Season with salt and 
pepper to taste, sweet cream and a little Worcester 
sauce. Pack in the shells, sprinkle bread crumbs 
and bits of butter on top and bake a light brown. — 

MRS. E, L. C. 



44 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

CRAB SALAD. 

Line a salad-dish with the young and tender leaves 
of lettuce. Upon this, place the meat of a dozen 
boiled crabs, and pour over this a mayonnaise dress 
ing made after the following receipt: Take a soup 
plate and in this rub well together two mustard- 
spoonfuls of made mustard, a little salt and red pep- 
per. Then break into this the yolks of two eggs, rub- 
bing all together well with a silver fork. Then add 
olive oil very gradually until you have a thick smooth 
paste, which must be thinned out with a little 
vinegar. — MRS. J. G. T. 

HOT CRAB. 

Boil and pick the crab. Cut the solid part into 
small pieces and mix with a little gravy or cream, 
seasoning and bread crumbs. Put all into the shell 
of the crab and put into the oven and brown. Serve 
while hot. — MBS. A. T. J. 

CRAB PATTIES. 

Pick the meat from the crabs, add the fat, season 
with salt and pepper, and to each dozen, add one 
beaten egg. Mould in flat cakes and fry in butter. 
Add cream and chopped parsley to the gravy. Serve 
over the crabs in a gravy boat. Dip the crabs in flour 
before frying. — MRS. v. c. p. 

CRAB SOUP. 

Fifteen or eighteen crabs cleaned alive (that is, fat 
taken out and put in a bowl), four onions and a 
bunch of parsley chopped fine, a dessert-spoonful 
of marjoram and thyme, a large lump of butter, 



FISH. 45 

two or three tablespoonfuls of flour (to thicken 
it), five pints of water. Just before it is time to 
dish it, put in a teaspoonful of curry. Let it 
cook an hour. After it has cooked a half-hour, 
put in the bodies of the crabs, breaking them in two, 
also crack the claws. Sprinkle the crab with cayenne 
pepper and salt. — MRS. W. R. H. 

CRAB SOUP. 

One dozen crabs boiled and picked, one and one- 
half quarts of milk, three or four hard-boiled eggs. 
Let milk come to a boil, then throw in the crab meat. 
Chop the eggs and add to soup. Season with a good 
tablespoonful of butter and a little salt and pepper. 
After stirring all together for a few minutes, it is 
ready to serve. — MRS. J. G. t. 



FISH. 



TO BOIL FRESH FISH. 

Wash well in salted cold water, sprinkle the fish 
with salt and pepper and tie in a clean cloth with a 
sprig of parsley. Cover with cold water except in 
case of salmon, when lukewarm water must be used, 
to preserve color. A fish weighing two pounds will 
require twenty minutes to cook. Drawn butter with 
hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, makes a very palatable 
sauce for boiled fish. — miss b. p. 

TO BOIL FISH. 

Put them in a long pan, cover them with water 
and boil till done (which, for small fish, will be about 
fifteen minutes). Remove all scum when they begin 



46 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

to boil. When done, drain off the water and with a 
slice put them on a hot dish and butter well. — MRS. 
JUDGE J. E. H. 

TO BAKE SHEEPS-HEAD. 

Use a large deep pan, so as not to crowd the fish. 
Sprinkle over the fish in the pan, salt and pepper. 
Dredge flour over it and lay lumps of butter about on 
it. Pour around the fish, milk and water in equal 
quantities until the sides of the fish are covered by 
it. Bake in a quick oven. Serve in its own gravy 
as sauce. — MRS. V. C. P. 

BAKED FISH. 

Cleanse the inside of any large, fresh fish — rock the 
best — and fill with a stuffing made of powdered 
cracker, butter, pepper, salt and one egg. Rub the 
outside of fish with salt and (Indian) meal, or sprinkle 
with some of the stuffing. Lay the fish in a baking 
pan with a gill of water. Bake thoroughly, and add 
to the gravy butter and a little sweet cream. Gar- 
nish with thin slices of lemon. — Mils. E. F. N. 

SHAD. 

For baking, select a large, fat shad ; have it well 
cleaned, leaving on the head. Stuff with bread- 
crumbs, seasoned with salt, pepper and butter ; sew 
up and bake in a pan large enough not to bend it. 
Serve with egg sauce. — mrs. v. c. p. 

BAKED FISH. 

An elegant dish for dinner, lunch or tea is any 
large fresh fish — rock the best — boiled and picked up 
as crabs. Then dress richly with a quart of sweet 



FISH. 47 

cream, a quarter of a pound of butter, in which two 
onions have been fried and the onion strained out, a 
teaspoonful of black pepper, one ounce of salt, half a 
nutmeg and grated bread-crumbs, enough fish to fill 
a baking-pan of two quarts. Then put in the stove 
after mixing, and bake a light brown. Some bits of 
butter and a few bread-crumbs on top. This is much 
better than a fish baked whole. — MRS. E. L. c. 

TO FRY FISH. 

Have a hot pan and some boiling-hot lard in it or 
the drippings of fat meat (equally good.) After the 
fish have been properly prepared, dredge them in 
flour and put them in the pan and fry. — G. 

TO FRY SHEEPS-HEAD OR SHAD. 

Split in two, take out the backbone and fry each 
half whole. — MRS. v. c. P. 

TO BROIL FISH. 

Heat the pan, grease it to keep the fish from stick- 
ing. Then put the fish in and turn once or twice. 
When done, butter well and serve on a hot dish. It 
can be broiled inside the stove. — MRS. judge j. e. h. 

FISH SOUP. 

Boil two trout or any kind of fish in three quarts 
of water. When done, pick all the bones out. Boil 
eight or ten Irish potatoes and a half-dozen onions, 
slice them and put them with the picked fish in the 
water in which the fish were boiled. Let it stew 
well, and then add a pint of sweet milk. Put a piece 
of butter about the size of an egg in a tureen and 
pour the hot? soup on it. -MRS. dr. w. a. t. 



48 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

STURGEON SALAD. 

Boil one pound of sturgeon well done, then chop 
it very line, removing all the fat and gristle. Make 
a dressing of one teaspoonful of mustard mixed 
smoothly with a little vinegar, then add three table- 
spoonfuls of best olive oil, stirred in drop by drop, 
the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs finely powdered, 
one teaspoonful of salt, also pepper, three cucumber 
pickles chopped fine. Pour the dressing over the 
sturgeon, just as you are going to eat it. Put in a 
salad bowl and garnish with lettuce leaves and the 
whites of the eggs cut in rings. This receipt is for 
only one meal, as it will not keep like fowl salad.— 

MRS. M. A. P. 

SHRIMP PIE. 

Two quarts of shrimps, one small loaf of bread, one 
tablespoonful of butter. Stew a quart of tomatoes 
until nearly done, crumb the bread into a little milk, 
add butter, black pepper, and a little salt. Put layer 
of bread on bottom of dish, then Uirimps, then toma- 
toes and so on, letting last layer be of bread-crum'js. 
Bake in an earthen bake-pan or porcelain-lined silver. 
—MRS. J. G. T. 



POULTRY. 

TO ROAST A TURKEY. 

Let the turkey hang in the air twenty-four hours 
after it is cleaned. For stuffing, take one and one 
half pints of bread-crumbs, three tablespoonfuls of 
butter, two tablespoonfuls of celery seed, one tea- 



POULTRY. 49 

spoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of black pepper, 
two well beaten eggs. Plump out the breast of the 
fowl thoroughly. Place in the dripper with sufficient 
water to steam well, and keep the fowl well dredged 
and basted. A bird of fifteen pounds will require 
three hours to bake, as you have to bake slowl} T to 
insure a done fowl. — miss b. p. 

TURKEY OLIO OR SALAD. 
An equal quantity of turkey chopped fine, and 
celery cut coarser than the meat. To a turkey allow 
one dozen eggs, eight of them to be boiled hard. 
Mash the yolks smooth with melted butter or salad 
oil. When smooth, add the beaten yolks of the four 
raw eggs beaten with salad oil until thick. Beat 
hard, add three teaspoonfuls of mixed mustard, salt, 
pepper and vinegar to taste. Chop fine half pint of 
yellow pickle, mix well with the turkey, and pour 
the dressing over it. — MRS. V. c. P. 

TO COIL AND DRESS CHICKENS. 

Cover the chickens with water and boil till done. 
When they begin to boil, remove the scum that rises 
on top. For the dressing, boil hard five eggs (for 
two chickens), divide in half, take out the yolks and 
mash well with a little butter, Skim from the top of 
the water in which the chickens were boiled one 
quart and add the yolks and butter and two tea- 
spoonfuls of flour smoothly mixed with a little water, 
and boil till it thickens. Keep the chickens hot and 
pour this dressing over them, after decorating them 
with the whites sliced. — mrs. judge j. e. h. 



50 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

TO FRY CHICKEN. 

This dish is best when the chicken is killed the 
same day it is to be cooked. Cut off the wings and 
legs, cut the breast in two and also the back. Wash 
well and throw in weak salt and water to extract the 
blood. Let it remain for half an hour or more. Take 
from the water, drain it and lay on a dish ; sprinkle 
a little salt over it and sift flour thickly first on one 
side and then on the other, letting it remain long 
enough for the flour to stick well. Have ready in 
the frying-pan some hot lard, in which lay each piece 
carefully, not forgetting the liver and gizzard. Cover 
closely and fry till a fine amber color. Then turn 
over each piece and cover well again, taking care to 
have the chicken well done yet not scorched. Take 
the chicken up and lay in a warm dish near the fire. 
— G. 

TO BROIL CHICKEN. 

Kill the chicken the day it is to be cooked. Clean 
nicely, split open in the back. Drain it well and 
grease well with butter. Put on the broiling iron 
with the inside of the chicken down. Let it cook 
principally from this side but turn often till the out- 
side of the chicken is of a bright, yellow brown. 
Keep it well buttered while cooking and when it is 
done pour over it melted butter. A chicken to broil 
should be fat but should not weigh over one pound 
before it is killed. Smaller size than that is prefer- 
able to larger. — G. 

SMOTHERED CHICKEN. 

Chickens can be cooked in this way weighing from 



POULTRY. 51 

one and a half to two and a half pounds. Clean 
nicely and split open in the back as if to broil. Rub 
well with butter and put in a pan with a little water. 
Baste frequently and when done pour over it melted 
butter. — G. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Cut up one or two plump young chickens and stew 
them nearly done in water enough to come up well 
around but not over them. Then skim out the 
chicken, season the broth to taste with pepper and 
salt, thicken it with a large tablespoonful of flour 
rubbed smooth in two tablespoon fuls of butter and 
the yolk of an egg. For the crust, rub into three 
teacupfuls of flour, two-thirds cup of butter or butter 
and lard together, one teaspoonful baking powder 
and as much salt ; add water enough to roll out 
without sticking. Keep the materials for the crust 
as cool as possible, next line the sides, but not the 
bottom, of a deep pudding dish with the pastry. Lay 
the pieces of chicken in smoothly, seasoning them 
with salt and pepper as needed, pour the gravy over 
and cover with a pretty thick crust. Leave an 
opening in the center for the escape of steam, pinch 
the edges closely to keep in the gravy, and bake in 
a good oven from forty to forty-five minutes. It is 
always well to reserve some gravy to send to the 
table in a tureen, to be served with the pie should it 
happen to have cooked away the gravy too much, as it 
is quite apt to do. — G. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Boil a hen or pullet ; when cold remove all the skin 



52 HOUSEKEEPER'S COM TAN ION. 

and chop very fine. Season with one teaspoonful 
of pepper, one of salt, one nutmeg, juice of half a 
lemon, one teacup of cream and quarter of a pound 
of butter in which two onions have been fried and 
strained out, two sprigs of parsley, chopped line 
Pack in a wine glass and turn out, dip it first in yolk 
of egg^ then in cracker dust and fry a light brown. 
They are best with green peas. — MRS. E. l. c. 

JELLIED CHICKEN. 

This is a nice dish for tea or lunch in spring. One 
large young hen boiled very tender in as little water 
as possible. Keep the water boiling while preparing 
the chicken and if the weather is rather warm, 
dissolve half a sheet of gelatine in about a pint of it. 
Mince the chicken and add five hard boiled eggs cut 
up. Season with the juice of one large lemon, three 
teaspoonfuls of mixed mustard, a dash of red pepper 
and a little of the oil from the pot. Line a mould 
(pea-dishes or salad bowls make good moulds) with 
rings of hard boiled eggs, put the mixture in and 
pour over and around the gelatinized water. Turn 
out like a hogshead cheese and you have a hand- 
some dish. You can vary the flavor by adding celery 
salt. — MRS. u. B. Q. 

CHTCKEN SALAD. 

The white n*eat of a cold boiled chicken, three- 
quarters of the same bulk of chopped celery, four 
hard boiled eggs, one raw egg well beaten, one tea- 
spoonful each of salt, pepper and made mustard, 
three teaspoonfuls of salad oil, two teaspoonfuls of 
white sugar, half teacupful of vinegar. Mince the 



POULTRY. 53 

meat well, removing every scrap of fat, gristle and 
skin. Cut the celery into bits half an inch long or 
less. Mix them and set aside in a cold place, while 
you prepare the dressing. — MRS. M. P. 

CHICKEN SOUP 

To one chicken, add two quarts of water, and a 
little salt. Boil down to one quart, then add a cup 
of rich milk, a little cream and pepper and a spoonful 
of flour creamed with some of the top of the soup or 
oil of the chicken. Add this to the soup to thicken 
it a little and season with a little thyme. — Mrs. t. 
E. C. C. 

GUMBO FILEE. 

To an old chicken cut in pieces and fried brown, 
three slices of raw ham, one small onion cut in rings, 
and pepper and salt to taste. Put as much cold water 
as will be one-third more than the soup required. 
Boil about five hours. One quarter of an hour before 
dinner, add one dozen or even two dozen oysters 
with their liquor. Just before dishing the soup, stir 
in, while it is barely simmering, an even tablespoon- 
ful of Filee. 

To make Filee, gather the leaves of the sassafras 
just after they are mature, usually at mid-summer, 
dry them in the shade, pulverize and sift them 
through coarse muslin or bobbinet, and cork tightly 
in an air-tight jar. The preparation will last for 
years. Serve with Gumbo, in a separate dish, boiled 
rice. — MRS. v. d. 

TO COOK GOSLING. 

It is better to dress it a day or two before it is to be 



54 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

cooked, in cold weather. Make a dressing of dry 
bread-crumbs seasoned with pepper and salt, and a 
little onion and sage if liked. Put in a pan, pour 
over it some boiling water, 'put in a hot oven and 
baste frequently. Turn so that every part may 
be equally browned. Serve with gravy or onion 
sauce. — MRS. t. E. c. c. 

TO COOK DUCK. 

It can be dressed and hung up two or three days 
before using in cold weather. Then put in a pan 
with a little hot water. If tough put sufficient water 
that it may cook tender before browning. If prefered 
season with onion. Baste frequently. — MRS. T. E. 
c. c. 

TO ROAST WILD FOWL IN A STOVE. 

Put them on a rack above a pan so that the gravy 
will drip through. This makes them as delicate as 
if roasted on a spit. — mrs s. t. 

TO COOK PARTRIDGE. 

Pick the feathers off gently, without tearing the 
skin. Cut off the head and feet, split open in the 
back and take out the entrails. Wash nicely, then 
put in the stove and broil, basting with butter until 
a light brown. 

Squabs are nice broiled the same way, as are also 
sora, ortolans, robins and other small birds. — G. 

RABBIT. 

Dress and cut into quarters. Sprinkle with flour 
and fry in lard until a nice brown. Then pour a 



MEAT SAUCES. 55 

little hot water to it, put a lid over the pan and 
steam. — mrs. t. e. c. c. 



MEAT SAUCES. 

DRAWN BUTTER. 

Rub well together, half pound of butter and one 
tablespoonful of flour. Stir it into half pint of boil- 
ing water. Season with salt and pepper, boil a few 
minutes, stirring constantly. 

EGG SAUCE FOR FISH. 

Make drawn butter and add the minced yolks of 
hard-boiled eggs. 

LOBSTER SAUCE FOR LARGE FISH. 

Add to drawn butter the minced meat and mashed 
coral of a boiled lobster. 

ONION SAUCE. 

Add a finely chopped onion to drawn butter. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Cut very fine the leaves of mint ; to three table- 
spoonfuls of chopped mint add two of sugar and 
small half cup of vinegar. Serve with spring lamb. 

CELERY SAUCE FOR BOILED FOWL. 

Cut in pieces, and put to stew in one cupful of the 
broth the fowl are boiling in, two heads of celery. 
When tender but not broken add one cup of cream, 
one spoonful of butter rubbed in one of flour, one 
grate of nutmeg, a little pepper and salt. Stew a 



56 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

short time longer and stir it. Boiled celery and 
chopped parsley may each be added to drawn butter 
and make a good sauce for boiled fowls. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Remove the seed from six tomatoes, cut them up, 
add half a small onion chopped fine, a little thyme 
and celery, one ounce of butter, one teaspoonful of 
sugar, one of salt, one fourth of a teaspoonful of pep- 
per. Stew gently. Dredge in a little flour, stew 
until thick as cream. Serve with roast beef or fowl. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

Stew until tender one bunch of celery in one pint 
of milk. Measure dry one pint of oysters, dredge 
them with flour. Add them to the stew, season with 
butter, pepper and salt. When the oysters plump 
add the juice of half a lemon and serve with boiled 
fowl. 

OYSTER SAUCE (jplairi). 

Stew in a sauce-pan one pint of oyster liquor, a 
little nutmeg, a spoonful of butter rubbed in flour. 
When it boils add the oysters. When the oysters 
plump take them off. If liked, add the juice of a 
lemon and a glass of wine. If the oyster liquor is 
very salt, use part or all milk in its place; but if milk 
is used do not add lemon or wine. 

BUTTER SAUCE FOR, BOILED FOWL. 

One quarter pound of butter, the juice of one 
lemon, pepper and salt to taste. Soften the butter 
well but do not oil it. While warm beat in quickly 
the yolks of two eggs. If you wish the sauce white 



MEAT SAUCES. 57 

whip and beat in the whites instead of the yolks. 
(A famous receipt.) 

CHILLA SAUCE. 

One dozen ripe tomatoes, one red pepper, one large 
onion cut fine, one teaspoonful of salt, one of cloves, 
one of allspice, one of ground ginger, one of sugar, 
two cups of vinegar. Boil two hours. Peel the 
tomatoes. 

IMITATION WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE. 

Three teaspoonfuls of cayenne, three tablespoon- 
fuls of walnut catsup, three shallots minced, three 
anchovies minced, half teaspoonful of powdered 
cloves, one quart of vinegar. Put in a stone jar, set 
the jar in hot water, let it come to a boil only. 
Strain and set aside closely covered for two days, 
then bottle and seal. 

PREPARED MUSTARD. 

Two tablespoonfuls of mustard, one teaspoonful of 
sugar, half teaspoonful of salt. Wet into a paste 
with boiling water. When cold add one tablespoon- 
ful of salad oil and just vinegar enough to thin it. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

Stew slowly one quart of cranberries, one cup of 
water. When broken and smooth put through a 
coarse sieve. Stir in one pound of white sugar until 
dissolved. Put in moulds, turn out and serve with 
turkey, ducks or game. — MRS. V. c. P. 

WALNUT CATSUP. 

Put three dozen walnuts in brine for ten days. 



58 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

Break them in a mortar, and to each dozen put one 
quart of vinegar. Stir well every day for a week. 
To each quart put one teaspoon ful of cloves, one of 
pepper, six cloves of garlic, half ounce of mace, half 
ounce of nutmeg, three onions chopped. Boil twenty 
minutes and bottle. — MRS. v. c. P. 

CUCUMBER CATSUP. 

Grate three onions with one dozen cucumbers, one 
quart of vinegar. Put one pound of white sugar to 
one gallon of this. Season with celery seed, allspice, 
black and red pepper, and salt. Bottle when cold 
and seal. — mrs. n. w. c. 

catsup. 
Take one bushel of tomatoes and boil them until 
they are soft. Squeeze them through a fine cloth 
and add one half gallon of vinegar, one and one half 
pints of salt, two ounces of cloves, quarter pound of 
allspice, two ounces of pepper (cayenne), three table- 
spoonfuls black pepper, five heads of garlic. Mix 
together, boil about three hours or until it is reduced 
about one half. — MRS. T. C. P. 

FRENCH MAYONNAISE. 

Put into a bowl or deep plate an even teaspoonful 
of salt, a quarter of a saltspoonful of pepper, a dust 
of cayenne pepper, the yolk of a raw egg and a tea- 
spoonful of vinegar. Mix to a cream, then add good 
salad oil drop by drop, stirring constantly until a 
thick paste is formed. Stir in vinegar and oil alter- 
nately until you have the desired quantity. The 
proportion to be preserved is three times as much oil 
as vinegar. 



BEEF. 59 

I use more cayenne pepper and omit the black 
pepper to avoid the black specks. — MRS. V. C. P. 



BEEF. 



TO ROAST BEEF. 

Put your sirloin or rib roast into a pan with about 
a quart of water poured over it. Set in the stove 
and cook gradually, basting frequently with the 
gravy. Add to the gravy as it is used up by pour- 
ing a little hot water into the pan. Turn occasion- 
ally that both sides may be well done and well 
browned. When you turn it the last time before 
serving sprinkle with salt and pepper. If the salt be 
put on at first it extracts the juices and hardens the 
meat. A roast of twelve or fifteen pounds will take 
about two and a half hours to cook. We like it 
done. — prof. B. p. 

TO COOK BEEFSTEAK. 

Take a thin, long-handled frying pan, put it on the 
stove and heat it quite hot. In this put the pieces 
of steak previously pounded, but do not put a par- 
ticle of butter in the frying-pan and do not salt the 
steak. Allow the steak to merely glaze over and 
then turn it quickly to the other side, turning it sev- 
eral times in this manner, until it is done. Four 
minutes is sufficient for cooking. When done lay it 
on the platter, previously warmed ; butter and salt, 
and set a moment in the hot oven. Allow the steak 
to heat but a moment on each side ; this helps it to 
retain all its sweet juices, and putting on the salt at 



60 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

the last moment, after it is on the platter, draws out 
its juices. — MRS. s. T. 

SPICED ROUND OF BEEF. 

Select a fine round of beef weighing aoout twenty- 
five pounds. Take three ounces of saltpetre, one 
ounce of cloves, one-half ounce of allspice, one nut- 
meg and one quart of salt. Pound all together very 
fine. Take out the bone. Rub well with this mix- 
ture on both sides ; put some of it in the bottom of 
a tub just large enough to hold the beef; lay it in 
and throw remainder on the beef. Rub it well every 
day for two weeks. At the end of that time wash 
the beef, bind it well with tape to keep it compact, 
filling the hole with fat, where the bone was taken 
out. Lay it in a pan of convenient size, cover with 
lard or suet, also sprinkle with three ounces of brown 
sugar, a tablespoonful of pepper, and one ounce of 
mace and a pint of water ; cover with thick paper 
and stew gently for seven hours. — MRS. E. L. C. 

FRIZZLED BEEF. 

Shave dried beef very fine, put it in a pan of boil- 
ing water and then let it come to a boil. Then pour 
off the water from it, put over the beef a plentiful 
supply of butter and let it heat thoroughly and 
serve. — miss m. g. 

FRIZZLED BEEF. 

Shave beef very fine, put into a frying-pan when 
good and hot, and shake and stir until heated 
through. Season with pepper and serve, or just 



BEEF. 61 

before serving beat one egg light and stir in. — 
Mrs. a. t. j. 

texas receipt for curing beef. 

9 pounds of salt. 

4 pounds of coarse brown sugar. 

4 ounces of saltpetre. 

2 ounces of soda. 

4 gallons of water. 
This proportion to every one hundred pounds of 
beef. Boil it and when cold pour over the beef 
packed closely in a barrel. Reboil the brine on the 
third, sixth and tenth days and pour over the beef 
as before. If the beef gets bloody (which is not 
often the case) boil the brine again. After the beef 
is well bleached, you can either pack it, hang it up 
or let it stay in the brine. This receipt makes tough 
beef tender. — MRS. G. B. f. 

TO CURE BEEF FOR DRYING. 

This receipt keeps the beef moist so that it has 
none of that toughness which most dried beef has 
when a little old. To every twenty-eight or thirty 
pounds allow one tablespoonful saltpetre, one 
quart of fine salt, mixed with molasses until the 
color is about that of light brown sugar. Rub the 
pieces of beef with the mixture and when done let 
all stick to it that will. Pack in a keg or half barrel, 
that the pickle may cover the beef, and let it remain 
fortj'-eight hours ; at the end of that time enough 
pickle will be formed to cover it. Take it out and 
hang in a suitable place for drying. Allow all the 
mixture to adhere to the meat that will. Tongues 
are cured nicely by same receipt. — miss m. g. 



62 so usekeepep: s com pa nion. 

TO CORN BEEF. 

For every hundred pounds of beef take : 
6 pounds of salt. 
2 pounds of brown sugar. 

2 ounces of saltpetre. 

3 or 4 ounces of soda. 
1 ounce of red pepper. 

The whole to be dissolved in four gallons of water. 
The beef must be closely packed in a barrel, and the 
mixture poured over so as to cover it. Let it stand 
a week or ten days, or longer if the weather is cold ; 
then pour off the brine, boil it and skim off the 
blood. Let it cool, and pour back on the beef. — 

MISS M. G. 

TO PICKLE BEEF. 

Mix salt and water to bear an egg. To two 
buckets of water, add a pint of molasses, two pounds 
of brown sugar and six ounces of saltpetre. Skim 
well before the beef is put in. In three weeks it 
will be ready for use. — MRS. DR. W. A. T. 

calf's head stewed. 
Boil the head until tender, in water enough to 
cover it. Then take out and cut the meat in pieces, 
pour over it a quart of the water the head was boiled 
in and stew slowly one hour. Add the chopped 
yolks of hard-boiled eggs, a wine-glass of wine, one 
lemon, sliced. — mrs. v. c. p. 

calf's head. 
Clean the head, remove the brains and set them in 
a cool place. Boil the head until the meat slips 



BEEF. 63 

easily from the bones. Take it out and chop fine. 
Season with herbs, pepper and salt. Then put in 
layers into a buttered pudding dish with bits of but- 
ter between each layer. Moisten well with the 
liquor in which the head was boiled. "Wash the 
brains very thoroughly, removing all the membrane. 
Beat them into a smooth paste, season with pepper 
and salt and stir in with them two eggs beaten very 
light. Spread this evenly over the scallop, dredge 
the top with a little flour and bake a delicate brown. 
Half an hour will be long enough. — mrs. j. g. f. 

BEEF TEA. 

To one pound of beef cut fine (free from fat and 
strings) pour one pint of cold water, let it stand two 
hours, then put it on the fire and let it simmer three 
quarters of an hour. Strain, season and use. — MRS. 

JUDGE J. E. H. 

BEEF TEA. 

Chop one pound of lean beef, from the round, very 
fine. Soak it for at least an hour in one pint of cold 
water ; if there is time, let it soak two hours. Put it 
over the fire in the same water, and let it slowly 
reach the boiling point. Strain it through a sieve 
which will retain only the bits of meat and allow the 
coagulatej. albumen to pass through. A little season- 
ing may be added if the physician permits. If the 
cooking of the beef is checked at 140 deg. Fahr., its 
albumen will be perfectly soluble, and, therefore, 
more digestible for very weak invalids. To increase 
the nutriment and bulk of beef tea, put a tablespoon- 
ful of sago, rice or pearl barley over the fire in half a 



64 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

pint of cold water, after the beef has been put to 
soak and gradually soften the grain by gentle heat, 
stirring it often enough to prevent burning; the 
water will be absorbed during the cooking of the 
grain. When the beef tea is done, add the grain to 
it, season and serve it. A small bit of a red pepper 
pod or a very little smoked beef may sometimes 
be added to the beef tea to vary the flavor and stim- 
ulate the appetite. — miss c. 

BEEF SOUP. 

Boil a shin of beef slowly all day. When cold, 
skim off all the cold tallow ; put on the fire and boil 
gently six hours with a can of tomatoes, six Irish 
potatoes, sliced, two carrots, cut fine, and a teacup- 
ful of turnip, cut fine ; salt and pepper to taste. 
Chop the meat and pour into the soup, but remove 
the bones. A few pods of okra and green corn im- 
prove it. — MRS. E. L. C. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Take a shin of beef weighing five or six pounds, 
wash well in cold water, then have it well broken, so 
that the marrow will be all incorporated in the soup. 
Put it in the soup pot with about six quarts of water. 
Let it boil slowly until the beef is done enough to 
leave the bone. Then take it up, chopping the 
meat in small pieces and return to the pot, adding 
one dozen ears of corn, one quart or even more 
of ripe tomatoes, chopped line, a little thyme, 
parsley and shallot. Let all boil for two hours 
longer, and half an hour before serving, thicken 
with two tablespoonfuls of flour and a gill of water. 



BEEF. 65 

You can add any other vegetables, but I prefer 
only corn and tomatoes. — MRS. M. A. r. 

MOCK TERRAPIN SOUP. 

Fat two pounds of roast or boiled beef cut up in 
small pieces, one pint of milk, half teacupf ul of wine, 
piece of butter, size of an egg (rolled in flour,) one 
teaspoonf ul of mixed mustard and a little nutmeg, in 
a stew-pan and cook ten or fifteen minutes. Good 
way to use cold meats. — MRS. judge j. e. h. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

Boil a calf's head, a slice of ham, four pig's feet 
and a bunch of soup herbs four hours, in two gallons 
of water. Take the head out, remove the bones, cut 
the meat in small pieces. Return them to the soup 
with half dozen cloves, one dozen allspice, six blades 
of mace. One hour before dinner, add to the soup, 
one spoonful of butter and two of browned flour well 
rubbed together, salt and pepper to taste, the juice 
of a lemon. Fifteen minutes before dinner add a 
wine-glass of walnut catsup, the egg balls and one 
large spoonful of brown sugar. If wine is liked, put 
one gill of Sherry or Madeira in the tureen before 
pouring off the soup. 

For the egg balls, use the yolks of two hard-boiled 
eggs, well mashed, the yolk of one raw egg, and a 
little flour. Flour your hands, and, having mixed 
them smoothly together, make into balls the size of 
bird eggs. — MRS. v. c. p. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Before breakfast, wash a beef shank in several 
waters, break the bone and put in a large pot of 



66 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

cold water. Keep it steadily boiling for one hour. 
Then add one pint of butter beans, one of corn 
(green or canned), one of turnip, cut fine, one of 
cabbage, chopped, one of Irish potatoes, sliced, two 
large onions, minced fine. Add one pint of peeled 
and chopped tomatoes, an hour before dinner. The 
soup requires very little thickening. Salt and pep- 
per to taste. — mrs. v. c. P. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP. 

Wash and soak one pint of black beans all night 
in six quarts of water. Early in the morning put 
all to boil with one pound of beef, one slice of ham, 
one small onion sliced, one quart of tomatoes, a 
bunch of soup herbs, salt and a little cayenne, one 
and one-half dozen cloves. After boiling four hours 
add one lemon sliced and butter the size of an egg. 
Three hard-boiled eggs sliced may be put in the 
tureen, also one gill of Sherry wine if wished. It 
can be strained, if desired, before adding the lemon, 
egg and wine. — Mils. V. C. P. 

BOAST VEAL. 

Take a breast of veal with a pocket cut in it. 
Make a dressing of light bread-crumbs, seasoned 
with salt pepper and a small piece of butter. Fill 
the pocket with it. Then put it in a pan with very 
little water. Roast slowly, and baste with a little 
flour and butter. It takes some time to cook veal 
well done, as it should be. — MRS. j. G. r. 

TO STEW BEEF TONGUE. 

Cover a fresh tongue with water, let it stew six hours. 



BEEF. 67 

When skimmed well, half hour before dishing, 
add to the tongue six cloves, a few allspice, a little 
mace, half wine-glass of walnut catsup, a little onion 
chopped, also parsley and pickle. Serve hot, pour 
the gravy over the tongue. If liked, add half glass 
of wine to the gravy. — MRS. V. c. P. 

TO STEW BEEF KIDNEY. 

Soak the kidney some time, cut in pieces, cover 
with water, and stew some time until tender. Add 
lump of butter size of an egg, pepper and salt; 
dredge with flour, stew until done. Serve with 
catsup. Some like a bunch of herbs stewed in it. — 
MRS. v. c. P. 

ROAST LAMB. 
Choose a hind quarter of lamb, stuff it with fine 
bread-crumbs, pepper, salt, butter and a little sage. 
Sew the flap firmly to keep it in place, rub the 
outside with salt, pepper, butter, a little of the stuff- 
ing, and roast two hours. — MRS. A. T. G. 

ROAST LAMB. 

Take a nice tender quarter of lamb, either hind 
or fore quarter. Salt and pepper it. Put it in a 
pan with a little water and cook in a quick oven, 
basting well while cooking. All meats or fowl 
should be well basted while cooking. — MRS. J. G. F. 



HO USEKEEPE& S COMPANION. 



PORK. 

TO CURE BACON. 

To every one thousand pounds of pork, take one 
bushel of fine salt, half pound of saltpetre, one 
gallon of molasses or eight pounds of brown sugar. 
Mix them thoroughly and rub well on the meat. 
Then pack in a hogshead or tight barrel, placing the 
hams at the bottom, shoulders next and middlings 
last. Change every week for four successive weeks. 
Then hang up and smoke a little every morning for 
three weeks. After which rub well in hickory ashes 
or in ashes of some good wood. Then bag the hams 
and rehang all up. — MRS. G. T. G. 

CURING HAMS. 

To each one thousand pounds of meat, half bushel 
of fine salt, six pounds of brown sugar, three pounds 
of pounded saltpetre, quarter pound cayenne pepper, 
mix well and wet with molasses. Rub each ham 
and piece of meat on both sides well. Pack in meat 
tubs, skin side down. Let them remain four weeks. 
Hang in a perfectly dark house. Smoke constantly 
for three days with hickory During a damp spell in 
late winter or spring make an occasional smoke. 
Have the meat entirely cold before salting, but don't 
allow it to freeze. — MRS. v. c. p. 

BAKED HAMS. 

Boil the ham till done, the length of time depend- 
ing on size of ham. Remove the skin, cover the top 
a fourth of an inch thick with a dressing of grated 



PORK. 69 

bread-crumbs, sugar and mustard creamed with 
enough butter to make a paste, put in the oven and 
bake a light brown. — MRS. dr. j. t. W. 

TO BAKE A PORK HAM. 

Loosen well the skin of the ham, with a sharp- 
pointed knife, make deep cuts in the ham. Have 
ready dressing made of bread-crumbs and fat pork 
chopped fine, a little line sage, a chopped onion, salt 
and pepper. Fill the cuts with this dressing, fasten 
the skin down to keep the dressing in, rub the entire 
ham with salt, pepper and sage. Roast slowly. 
When done, take off the skin, sprinkle with bread 
crumbs, and brown lightly. Serve with apple or 
cranberry sauce. Pork hams are very nice boiled 
and eaten cold, or sliced and broiled. — MRS. V. c. P. 

SAUSAGE. 

10 pounds lean meat. 
5 pounds fat meat. 

5 ounces salt. 

3 ounces pepper. 

3 ounces sao-e. — MRS. E. s. 

o 

SAUSAGE. 

10 pounds lean meat. 

6 pounds fat meat. 

5 ounces salt. 

2 ounces pepper. 

3 ounces sage. — mrs. e. l. c, 

SAUSAGE. 

6 pounds lean meat. 
5 pounds fat meat. 



70 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION- 

3 ounces pepper. 

1\ ounces salt. 

3 tablespoonfuls sage. — MRS. dr. w. A. T. 

SAUSAGE. 

12 pounds meat. 

3 ounces salt. 

2 ounces pepper. 

6 tablespoonfuls sage. — MRS. E. F. G. 

SPARE RIBS. 

Cut them in pieces, three or four "bones each, about 
four inches long. Parboil them, then broil with 
pepper and salt. — G. 

TO MAKE SOUSE. 

As soon as the hog is cleaned, cut off the feet and 
clean thoroughly of the hairs. Then, to get the hoof 
from the feet, dip them in hot lye, not above the 
hoof, and slip a knife between the foot and hoof 
and slip it off. The ears and nose must also be 
nicely cleaned, then soak all in clear water with a 
little washing soda dissolved in it, about twenty-four 
hours. Scrape again and have them as white and 
clean as possible, then boil until tender. Then drop 
in weak salt and water till cold. Then drop in 
vinegar. It will keep several months. 

TO CURE LARD. 

As soon as it is taken from the hog cut in small 
pieces, wash clean, press out the water and put in 
the pot to boil, with one gallon of water to a vessel 
holding four gallons. Boil briskly until nearly done, 



PORK. 71 

or until the cracklins begin to brown, then cook 
slowly to prevent burning. The cracklins should be 
of a light brown and crisp and will sink to the 
bottom when done. This is leaf lard. The fat of the 
backbone is also very nice, done in the same way, 
and does not require soaking, unless bloody. The 
fat from the entrails can also be made into nice lard 
by soaking for a day or two in fresh water, changing 
it frequently, and throwing a handful of salt in the tub 
of water to draw out the blood and impurities. When 
ready to render, wash in warm water twice and boil 
in more water than you do for leaf lard. The crack- 
lins will not become crisp, but remain soft, and will 
sink to the bottom ; they are used for making soap. 
— MRS. s. T. 

ROAST PIG. 

When roasted whole, a pig should not be under four 
nor over six weeks old. In town, the butcher pre- 
pares for roasting, but it is well to know, in the coun- 
try, how this may be done. As soon as the pig is 
killed, throw it into a tub of cold water, to make it 
tender ; as soon as cold take it by the hind leg, 
and plunge into scalding, not boiling, water (as the 
last cooks the skin so that the hair can with difficulty 
be removed), shake it about until the hair can be re- 
moved by the handful. When all that is possible has 
been taken off in this way, rub from the tail up to 
the end of the nose with a coarse cloth. Take off the 
hoofs, scrape and wash the ears and nose until per- 
fectly clean. The nicest way to dress it is to hang it 
by the hind legs, open and take out the entrails ; wash 
well with water, with a little soda dissolved in it ; 



72 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

rinse again and again, and leave hanging an hour. 
Wrap in a coarse cloth, wrung out of cold water, and 
lay on ice or in a cool cellar until next morning, when, 
if the weather is warm, it must be cooked. It should 
never be used the same day it is lulled. First prepare 
the stuffing of the liver, heart and haslets of the pig, 
stewed, seasoned and chopped. Mix with these an 
equal quantity of boiled potato mashed ; add a large 
spoonful of butter, with some hard-boiled eggs, pars- 
ley and thyme, chopped fine, pepper and salt. 

Scald the pig on the inside, dry it and rub with 
pepper and salt, fill and sew up. Bend the fore legs 
under the body, the hind legs forward, under the pig, 
and skewer to keep in position. Place in a large 
baking-pan, pour over one quart of boiling water. 
Have a lump of fresh butter tied up in a clean rag ; 
rub it all over the pig, then sprinkle over pepper and 
salt, putting some in the pan with a bunch of herbs ; 
invert over it a baking-pan while it simmers, and steam 
until entirely done. Underdone pork, shoat or pig is 
both unpalatable and unwholesome. Remove the pan, 
rub over with the butter and baste often. When of a 
fine brown, cover the edges of a large dish with a deep 
fringe of parsley ; first sift over the pig powdered 
cracker, then place it kneeling in the green bed. 
Place in its mouth an orange or a red apple ; and if 
eaten hot, serve with the gravy in a tureen or sauce- 
boat. It is much nicer cold ; served with little 
mounds of grated horse radish amongst the parsley. — 
MBS. s. T. 

TO HASH PIG'S HEAD. 

Take head, feet and haslet of pig; boil them till 



TEGETABLES. 73 

done, then cut them up fine, taking out the bones. 
Add black pepper, salt, a little sage, two onions 
chopped fine, a little red pepper, one teaspoonful 
mace, one teaspoonful cloves. Put it back in the same 
vessel with liquor and cook done, then thicken with 
a little flour. Add two hard-boiled eggs, and one cup 
walnut catsup. — MRS. s. t. 



VEGETABLES. 

CABBAGE. 

It sometimes happens that the cabbage is infested 
with little insects. In that case let the cabbage lie 
for half an hour in a dish of cold salted water. This 
will kill the insects. You can easily shake them all 
out. Cut up the cabbage for convenience of serving. 
Do not boil your cabbage longer than thirty minutes 
at most. From ten to thirty minutes is quite long 
enough. To see if it is tender, take out a piece of 
the stem, if that is tender all the rest is.— miss c. 

DRESSING FOR COLD SLAW. 

Take the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs powdered 
to a smootn paste, to which add one teaspoonful of 
mustard, salt and pepper to taste and three table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. To this add enough vinegar to 
make the consistency of cream. Pour over the slaw 
and garnish with the whites of the eggs cut in rings. 

— MRS. M. A. P. 

DRESSING FOR HOT SLAW. 

Three quarters of a cup of vinegar, two eggs well 



74 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

beaten, four teaspoonfuls sugar, one teaspoonful of 
mustard, butter size of a walnut. Mix all the in- 
gredients together and put on the fire, stirring all 
the time. Cook till the consistency of cream, then 
pour on the slaw. — mrs. m. a. p. 

slaw. 
One head of cabbage cut very fine, sprinkle lightly 
with salt. Take two cups of vinegar and let it come 
to a boil, then beat one egg up with one heaping cup 
sugar, two tablespoonf uls of mustard, piece of butter 
size of a walnut, and stir all into the boiling vinegar, 
let it boil until as thick as custard. — miss t. e. b. 

slaw. 
Two-thirds of a cup of vinegar, one egg^ two table - 
spoonfuls of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, half tea- 
spoonful of mixed mustard and butter size of an egg. 
Stir until it boils. When cold pour over the shaved 
cabbage — MRS. A. t. j. 

TO BOIL IRISH POTATOES. 

If very new rub the skin off with a towel, if ripe 
scrape them, if old pare them very thin. 

New potatoes should be put in cold water one hour. 
Put on to boil in cold water and boil half an hour ; 
then pour off the water and set on the back of the 
stove four or five minutes to dry. Serve whole with 
warm cream and butter. 

To boil them in the skin, put them on in cold water 
with salt. When done pour off the water and set 
back to dry. Pare quickly. Serve whole with but- 
ter and cream or crush them in a dry towel and pour 
the cream and butter over them. 



VEGETABLES. 75 

Old potatoes should be pared thin, put in cold 
water one half hour, put to boil in boiling water and 
boiled half an hour. Pour off the water, set back on 
the stove three or four minutes to dry. Serve whole 
with butter and cream, or mash and beat until light 
with the butter and cream. Serve hot. — MRS. V. 
c. P. 

IRISH POTATO CAKES. 

Take one egg^ well beaten, and a lump of butter 
size of an egg^ and mash well into eight potatoes which 
have been boiled done. Salt and pepper to taste. Be 
sure to pour nearly all the water from the potatoes 
just before they are done so that they may steam. 
Fry in hot lard. — mrs. judge j. e. h. 

IRISH POTATO CHIPS. 

Peel and slice very thin and drop in cold water. 
Dry them well in a cloth. Drop in boiling lard and 
stir till crisp. Lay on a sieve to drain. Sprinkle a 
little salt over them. Serve hot. — MRS. judge j. 
e. h. 

southern mode of cooking rice. 
Pick over the rice and wash it in cold water. To 
one pint of rice put three quarts of boiling water and 
half tea-spoonful salt. Boil it seventeen minutes, 
from the time it begins to boil. Then turn off all the 
water, set it over a moderate fire with the lid off, to 
steam fifteen minutes. The rice water first poured 
off is good to stiffen muslins. — G. 

TO BOIL GREEN CORN. 

Strip off the outer shucks, leaving only the thin 



76 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

white ones. Cat off the ends. Throw into boiling 
water and boil from twenty to thirty minutes. Cut 
off from the cob, put in a pan and season with salt, 
butter and a little milk to prevent sticking to the pan. 
Heat thoroughly and serve hot. — miss m. G. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

Take one teacupful of milk, three eggs, one pint 
of green corn grated, a little salt and as much flour 
as will form a batter. Beat the eggs, yolks and 
whites separately. To the yolks of the eggs, add the 
corn, milk and flour to form a batter. Beat the 
whole very hard, then stir in the whites, and drop the 
batter, spoonful at a time, in hot lard. — MRS. DR. 
E. W. R. 

BAKED CORN. 

Take one large coffee cup of dried corn and boil 
until done. Then beat one egg^ one tablespoonful of 
sugar, one tablespoonful of corn-starch together and 
pour your corn over it. Should your corn have boiled 
too dry and your batter seem too thick pour a little 
milk in it. Add a piece of butter and a little salt 
and pour in your pan and bake. — MRS. s. F. R. 

GREEN CORN PUDDING. 

Twelve large ears of corn split and scraped from 
the cob with the back of a knife. Make a batter oi 
four eggs, one quart of milk, one cup of butter, one 
tablespoonful of flour, pepper and salt, and the corn. 
Bake half an hour, in a buttered pudding dish, in a 
-MRS. v. c. p. 



VEGETABLES. 77 

BAKED CORN. 

Six ears of green corn or half pound of dry corn. 
Boil until done. Beat together one egg, one table- 
spoonful of flour, one cup of milk and a little salt. 
Pour the corn in while hot. Put in a pan, placing 
small pieces of butter on top, to brown it. — MRS. 
T. c. P. 

TO CAN CORN. 

Take one gallon of corn after it has been boiled 
and cut from the cob. Put half an ounce of tartaric 
acid in a teacup of hot water. Mix it in the corn 
and let all heat boiling hot. Stir well to mix in the 
acid, then put in glass quart jars, taking care that the 
corn is covered with water, and seal it. When you 
wish to use the corn, take one quart of corn, cover 
with water and put in half-teaspoonful of soda, soak 
ten minutes. Pour off the soda water and add two 
teaspoonfuls of sugar or according to taste. — MRS. 
H. C. 

MACARONI WITHOUT CHEESE. 
Boil Italian Macaroni with salt for twenty minutes. 
Drain off the water. Put in a saucepan with, pep- 
per, butler and milk enough to cover it. Stew until 
the milk boils. Take off immediately and serve. Cin- 
namon and sugar can be added if liked, or a little 
nutmeg. — MRS. v. c. P. 

MACARONI. 

Put your macaroni on the stove and boil until 
soft. Put a little salt in the water in which it is 
boiled. Then take a pan and put macaroni in the 



78 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

bottom, then a layer of crackers, then one of. cheese, 
continue to do so until you have filled your pan 
(adding a little butter with the cheese). Then add 
milk until the pan is full and bake a light brown. If 
it stands too long in the stove it gets hard. — MRS. 

S. F. B. 

TO STEW CYMLINGS. 

Peel and boil till tender. Run through a colander. 
To a pint of pulp, add one half pint of rich n?ilk, a 
heaping tablespoonfulof fresh butter and a little salt. 
Stew till thick like marmalade. Pepper freely, pour 
over it, if convenient, half teacup of cream and serve. 

— MRS. S. T. 

TO FRY CYMLINGS. 
After boiling and running through a colander, mix 
with an egg^ season with salt, pepper, and butter, 
make into cakes and fry a light brown. — MRS. s. T. 

LIMA BEANS. 

Shell and throw into cold water. Put in boiling 
water an hour before dinner, add some salt ; when 
tender, drain off the water and add a tablespoonful of 
fresh butter. Beans are seldom cooked enough. — 

MRS. S. T. 

TO BOIL DRIED LIMA OR OTHER BEANS. 

Soak over night. Next morning, soak in fresh 
water till two hours before dinner, when boil stead- 
ily in a covered saucepan two hours. Drain and 
add a large spoonful of fresh butter and a little salt. 
— MRS. S. T. 



VEGETABLES. 79 

TO BOIL GREEN PEAS. 

Shell and lay in cold water till half an hour before 
dinner. Then put in boiling water and boil steadily 
half an hour. Add a little salt, just before taking 
from the fire. Drain, season, and put in a covered 
dish. — MRS. s. T. 

TO COOK PARSNIPS. 

Peel and slice lengthways and boil till thoroughly 
done. Serve with salt, butter, and pepper. — G. 

TO FRY PARSNIPS. 

Take nice sweet parsnips, boil them well done, 
then mash them well. Take one or two eggs as the 
quantity may demand, beat them up with flour, a 
little }^east powder and salt. If the parsnip is not 
sweet add some sugar. Make into cakes and fry in 
hot lard. — MRS. M. c. 

TO BOIL SNAPS. 

Early in the morning, string round, tender snaps. 
Throw into water and set in a cool place, till an hour 
before dinner, when they must be drained and thrown 
into a pot where the bacon is boiling. — MRS. s. T. 

TURNIP SALAD. 

Pick early in the morning. Wash and put in cold 
water. Have ready a pot of boiling water in which 
a piece of bacon has boiled several hours, and the 
amount of water become much reduced. Take out 
the bacon, put in the salad, put the bacon back on 
top of the salad, and boil till very tender. Dip from 
the top with a. perforated skimmer, lay in a deep dish, 



80 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

skim the fat from the liquor and pour over the salad. 
Cover ami send to the table hot. Kale can be cooked 
in same way. — MRS. s. t. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

1 quart peeled and sliced tomatoes (not scalded). 

1 cup of sugar. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

1 dessert-spoonful of salt. 

1 teaspoonful black pepper. 

1 roll of bread. 
Spread a layer of tomatoes on the bottom of an 
earthen (never a tin) baking-dish previously buttered. 
Put over it half the sugar, butter, pepper and salt, 
and crumble half the roll over it in small bits. Then 
spread another layer of tomato, sugar, etc., ending 
with the remaining half of the roll. Grate cracker 
or hard brown biscuit on top and serve. — MRS. s. T. 

RAW TOMATOES. 

Wash the tomatoes and put them in a cool place. 
Just before going to the table, slice them, and let 
every one season them to suit his or her taste, which 
frequently differs widely. Nothing more convenient 
or healthier. — G. 

TO STEW EGG PLANT. 

Put them on whole in a plenty of water, and let 
them simmer till tender. Then take off the skim 
and divide them. Wash them well in a deep dish, 
adding a large spoonful butter and some grated bread- 
crumbs. Grate bread-crumbs on top, and brown it. 
Purple egg plants are best. — mrs. s. t. 



VEGETABLES. 81 

TO COOK SALSIFY. 

Wash, trim, scrape the roots and cut them up fine. 
Boil till tender, mash and season with pepper, salt, 
bread-crumbs, butter and milk. Put in a dish and 
bake brown. — MRS. s. T. 

SPINACH. 

Pick and soak several hours in cold water. Drain 
and shake each bunch. Throw in boiling water and 
boil till tender. Take up with a perforated skimmer. 
Put in a sauce-pan with butter, pepper and salt to 
taste. Stir in three hard-boiled eggs, chopped up. 
Let it simmer, stirring frequently. Put in a deep 
dish and cover with nicely poached eggs, buttered, 
peppered and salted. — MRS. s. T. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Wash well, scrape off the outer skin, tie up in 
bunches and put in salt and water until it is time to 
cook it. Put on to boil at least an hour before din- 
ner, and boil till tender in clear water with a little 
salt in it. Season with butter just before serving. — 

G. 

TO COOK ONIONS. 

Boil till tender, in milk and water. Pour melted 
butter over them and serve ; or chop up and stew 
with a little milk, butter, and salt. — MRS. s. T. 

TO FRY ONIONS. 

Wash and slice them. Chop fine, put in a frying- 
pan and cover with water. Simmer till the water is 
dried up, then fry brown, with a large slice of fat 
pork. Add pepper and salt. — mrs. s. T. 



82 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

TO BAKE ONIONS. 

Boil six onions in water, or milk and water with a 
seasoning of pepper and salt. When done enough to 
mash, take them off, mash them with butter, grate 
bread-crumbs over them, and set them to bake. Or 
place them whole in the baking dish with butter and 
bread-crumbs. — MRS. s. T. 

TO DRESS RAW ONIONS. 

Slice and chop fine, and put in weak salt and water 
till just before dinner. Then drain off and dress 
with half a tea-cup vinegar, two tablespoonfuls 
pepper, vinegar, two tablespoonfuls made mustard, 
two tablespoonfuls white sugar, one tablespoonful 
salt. Lay a large lump of ice on top, and garnish 
with curled parsley; which, eaten after onions, is 
said to remove the scent from the breath. — MRS. s. T. 

HOMINY. 

Soak in hot water over night. Next morning 
wash in two waters and boil thoroughly. A little 
milk added to it just before it is done whitens and 
seasons it. Season with butter and salt. — G. 

HOMINY CAKES. 

One cupful of cold boiled hominy, one teaspoonful 
of butter, one egg, a small cupful of milk. Mix 
slowly until it is a paste : Make into cakes with 
floured hands. Fry in hot lard. — MRS. v. c. P. 

SWEET POTATOES. 

Boil them till nearly done, put them in cold water 
and peel them. Then put them in a pan and bake 



VEGETABLES. 83 

them with a little butter or lard, and brown them in 
a hot oven. — mrs. m. o. 

TO BAKE SWEET POTATOES. 

Wash them perfectly clean, wipe them dry, and 
bake in a quick oven. Do not open the oven while 
baking, unless it is necessary to turn them. Roasted 
or baked potatoes should not be cut, but broken open 
and eaten from the skin as from a shell. — G. 

TO FRY SWEET POTATOES. 

Wash nicely, cut them in thin slices, peel off the 
skin, and fry in hot lard. — G. 

TO BAKE APPLES. 

Take out the core, fill with sugar and put in a pan 
with a little water and serve cold. 



TO FRY APPLES. 

Slice apples without peeling; cut and fry some 
thin slices of breakfast bacon until thoroughly done ; 
remove the slices from the vessel, adding water to 
the gravy left. Put in apples and fry until done, 
sweetening to taste. — mrs. s. t. 

CODDLED APPLES. 

Choose six firm-fleshed, rather sweet, winter apples 
of large and even size, and pare them carefully and 
smoothly. Place them on the bottom of a preserving 
kettle which will just contain them in one layer ; 
pour in water enough to reach about halfway up the 
sides of the apples ; cover the kettle and stew them 
gently until they are tender, but not broken in the 
least degree ; then take them up carefully on a skim- 



84 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

mer and lay them on a platter ; with the water in 
which the apples have been boiling put two cupfuls 
of sugar and boil it until it looks thick, like syrup, or 
for about eight minutes ; then replace the apples in 
it gently, boil them until they look clear and semi- 
transparent, but not in the least broken ; the yellow 
rind of two lemons peeled very thin, and their juice 
strained, greatly improve the flavor of coddled apples, 
if added when they are boiled nearly enough ; when 
the apples look clear take them up very carefully 
with a skimmer ; lay them in a glass dish, and then 
again boil the syrup until it looks rather rich and 
thick ; after that strain the syrup upon the apples ; 
let them cool and serve them in the same dish in 
which they are cooled. This dish may be varied 
according to the sweetening and spices, but it is deli- 
cious at any time of the year. — miss c. 

beets. 
Wash them. Do not break or cut the roots. Leave 
an inch of the tops, so that the color and juice cannot 
escape. Boil hard for two hours. When tender, 
slice them, sprinkling over them sugar, then butter 
and salt to the taste. Sugar is the greatest improve- 
ment. — mes. s. T. 

RADISHES. 

As soon as taken from the ground, put in cold 
water. Then put red and white radishes alternately 
in a dish of fanciful design, ornamented with curled 
parsley, in the centre and around the edges. — MRS. 
s. T. 



PICKLES. 85 

LETTUCE. 
Dressing for lettuce is made with two eggs, one 
tea-cup of brown sugar, one teaspoonful of pepper, 
one of salt, one of mustard, lump of butter size of an 
egg^ one tea-cup of vinegar. Beat well and boil until 
thick, stirring often. — MRS. V. C. P. 

CELERY. 

Wash carefully and put in cold water to keep crisp 
till dinner. Remove all the green, as nothing is so 
ornamental as the pure white leaves of bleached 
celery. If the ends of the stalks have been broken, 
split and curl them. — MRS. s. T. 



PICKLES. 

To make good pickles, it is very important to have 
good cider vinegar. No other can he relied on for 
pickles or catsups. If a bell-metal kettle is used, it 
should first be thoroughly cleaned. Under no cir- 
cumstances should a brass kettle be tolerated. For 
general purposes a porcelain lined or agate iron is 
preferable. 

TO MAKE GREEN PICKLES. 

After the cucumbers have been brined as long, as 
desired or convenient, soak in fresh water until fresh 
enough to suit the taste, being careful to change the 
water every day, otherwise they will get soft. Then 
scald them in vinegar (let them come to a good 
boil) in a bell-metal kettle which will green them. 
Then put them in cold vinegar. The vinegar they 



86 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

are scalded in cannot be used about them afterwards. 

—MRS. DR. S. G. F. 

TO MAKE GREEN PICKLES. 

After they have been brined sufficiently long, pour 
off the brine and put the pickles in kettles over a 
slow fire and pour on clear water. As it heats, 
change the water until the salt is out. Cover then 
with water and allow them to scald (not boil) until 
green. Grape leaves through them hasten the 
greening. When green, put in cold vinegar for a 
week or two. — MRS. v. c. p. 

TO MAKE GREEN PICKLES. 

Select very small cucumbers, put them in strong 
brine for two days. Scald the same brine and pour 
over the cucumbers. In two days scald and pour it 
over them again, let stay two days, making six days 
in brine. Then boil vinegar and water in equal 
quantities and pour over them. In two days repeat 
it, making three scaldings in vinegar. They will 
then be green and ready for the spiced vinegar. — 

MRS. L. F. 

TO MAKE YELLOW PICKLES. 

Put small, hard, white heads of cabbage quartered, 
small onions, cucumbers, etc., in hot brine for three 
or four days. Drain well and put on coarse, soft 
cloth in the clear sun to dry and bleach. Turn often 
and two days in the sun will be long enough. Then 
put in cold vinegar with a little turmeric for two 
weeks, then in spiced vinegar. Put the spices in a 
bag to prevent spoiling the appearance of the pickle. 
— MRS. V. C. P. 



PICKLES. 87 

ONIONS. 
Peel and brine over night. Wash them next morn- 
ing and boil in vinegar and water in an iron pot. 
Stick five or six cloves in each onion and put in cold 
vinegar. Next morning boil the vinegar and pour 
over them hot. — miss s. d. 

SWEET PICKLED TOMATOES. 

Slice one gallon of green tomatoes, sprinkle them 
thoroughly with salt and let them stand four hours. 
Then put them in clear cold water and let them soak 
four hours. Drain them well and put into a preserv- 
ing kettle. Add one teaspoonful of ground black 
pepper, a small pod of red pepper (sliced), one table- 
spoonful of allspice, one of cloves and two of white 
mustard seed, six large onions sliced (parboil in salt 
and water), half teacupful celery seed, two pounds of 
brown sugar. Cover with good cider vinegar and let 
it boil till the vinegar is clear. — MRS. A. L. F. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLE. 

One peck green tomatoes. Slice them, sprinkle 
with salt, and let stand all night. Next morning 
soak them until the afternoon. Slice ten small onions 
and put one box of mustard, cloves, allspice, black 
pepper, celery seed and sugar to taste. Cover with 
vinegar. Boil until tender. — MRS. A. J. L. 

WALNUT PICKLE. 

Select English walnuts, young enough to run a pin 
through, about 20th June. Pour boiling brine over 
them and let them stand ten days or longer. Pour off 
and cover the walnuts with clear boiling water. In 
twenty-four hours, change the water, let it stand all 
night. Spread the walnuts on dishes, put in the sun 
to dry. In one or two days they will turn black. 



83 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

Put in stone jars with the seasoning well sprinkled 
through them. To one peck walnuts put : Half- 
pound of race ginger, two ounces black pepper, two 
ounces allspice, two ounces cloves, two pounds brown 
sugar, one and one-half dozen onions chopped fine, 
one pod ot red pepper cut up. Mix all well. Break 
the ginger. Cover with good cider vinegar. — MRS. 

A. L. F. 

APPLE AND PEAR PICKLE. 

Take one pound of fruit, half-pound of sugar, and 
half-pint of vinegar. Dissolve sugar and vinegar to- 
gether, put in a small quantity of fruit and boil until 
you can stick a straw through it. Season with cin- 
namon and mace or to your taste. Re-scald the vine- 
gar and pour over the fruit for nine mornings. — MRS. 

S. T. 

TO PICKLE ARTICHOKES. 

Peel and rinse in cold water. Place them in a 
kettle and cover with vinegar. Add sugar and spices 
to taste. Boil twenty minutes. — miss o. w. 

CHERRIES. 

Clip the stems and fill the jar with cherries. To a 
gallon jar, put a handful of salt on top to harden 
them. Cover with cold vinegar and let stand all 
night. Next morning pour off and boil the vinegar 
and let it stand till cold. Then pour on the pickles 
Spices to taste. — miss s. d. 

SWEET PICKLE CHERRIES. 

Pick and stone them. Cover with vinegar, and, to 



PICKLES. 89 

each pint of vinegar, put half a pound of sugar. Put 
all in the kettle and boil till done. — miss S. d. 

DAMSONS. 

Seven pounds of damsons, four pounds of brown 
sugar, two ounces of stick cinnamon, two ounces of 
whole cloves and one quart of vinegar. Put a layer 
of plums and spices alternately. Scald the vinegar 
and sugar together, pour it on the plums. Repeat 
for two or three days, the last time put the jar in a 
kettle of water and cook until done. — G. 

PEACHES. 

Pare your peaches and fill your jar with them, 
being careful to shake it well in order to pack them 
closely. Cover with good cider vinegar. Pour off 
the vinegar, measure it, and to eacli pint of vinegar 
add half a pound of sugar. Boil the vinegar and pour 
over the peaches. Repeat this four or five times, 
adding more sugar if peaches are not sweet enough. 
If you find peaches are nearly done, place your jar in 
a vessel of cold water and let it come to a good boil. 
When peaches are sufficiently done, seal them while 
hot. — MISS m. G. 

PEACH MANGOES. 

Use large open-stone peaches, put in brine twenty- 
four hours. Cut open one side, take out the seed, 
fill with the following dressing : Equal quantities of 
chopped peach and white mustard seed, a little 
ginger, cloves, allspice, turmeric, black pepper, sugar 
and celery seed. Tie up, pack in a jar open side up. 
Cover with cold vinegar, allow three pounds of sugar 



90 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

to each gallon. If wished yellow, add three ounces 
of turmeric to each gallon. — MRS. v. c. P. 

CUT CUCUMBERS. 

Pare and slice one hundred cucumbers, one-quarter 
of a peck of onions in the same way. Sprinkle with 
salt, let them stay twenty-four hours. Drain the salt 
off, put in a jar in layers — first a layer of cucumbers 
and onions, then a layer of spices. 
Spices to be used : 

2 ounces of mace (whole, not ground). 
2 ounces of celery seed. 
1 pound of English mustard. 
Fill the jar np with cold vinegar, cover the top 
with sweet oil. As you pour the vinegar in, shake 
the jar well so it will soak through it. After 
remaining twenty-four hours stir well together. 

This pickle is delicious with fish or oysters, is very 
easily made, and has the advantage of never obliging 
you to go near the fire. It was a receipt used by my 
great grandmother nearly one hundred years ago. — ■ 
MRS. GOV. F. L. 

SWEET PICKLED CUCUMBER (sliced). 

Slice one gallon of cucumbers, sprinkle them with 
salt thoroughly and let them stand about four hours. 
Then put them in clear cold water and let them soak 
about four hours. Then drain them well and put 
them in a preserving kettle and add a teaspoonful of 
ground black pepper, one small pod of red pepper 
(sliced), one tablespoonful of mace, one tablespoon- 
ful of cloves, two tablespoonfuls of white mustard 
seed, half pint of scraped horse-radish, six large 



PICKLES. Q] 

onions (sliced), one and one-half pounds of sugar. 
Cover all Avith good cider vinegar and let boil until 
the cucumbers are clear. — MRS. a. l. f. 

CUC UMBER MANGOES. 
Slit fifty large cucumbers on one side and put 
them in brine two weeks. Then take them out, 
remove the seed with your finger. Green them in 
vinegar and water and a small piece of alum. When 
green, throw them in cold vinegar. Make a dressing 
of two heads of cabbage (chopped), one teacup of 
grain pepper, half cup of ginger (pounded), two 
cups of grated horse-radish, one ounce of cloves, one 
ounce of mace, one pint of black mustard seed, one 
pint of white mustard seed, four ounces of celery 
seed, one pint of small onions, two and one-half 
pounds of brown sugar, one cup of sweet oil. Dry 
and fill the cucumbers, and tie or sew securely and 
put in a jar, cut side up. Dissolve three pounds of 
sugar in one gallon of vinegar and pour over them. 
Tie up the jar closely. — MRS. V. c. P. 

SWEET PICKLE MANGOES. 

Remove seeds from mangoes and brine for ten clays 
in brine that will bear an egg. Pour it off every 
other day and put it in a kettle to boil, then pour hot 
on mangoes. At the end of ten days remove the 
brine and freshen with cold water. Then put them 
on in vinegar or half vinegar and water and boil 
gently for twenty minutes. Drain and stuff with 
the following dressing : For a three-gallon jar : 

1 teacupful of black pepper. ■ 

1 ounce of allspice. 



92 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

li ounces of ginger. 

i ounce of mace. 

i ounce of cloves. 
Beat all, but not fine; then add three cups of 
grated horse-radish, one quart of white mustard seed, 
two teacupfuls of celery seed and two pounds of 
brown sugar. Mix thoroughly and stuff the man- 
goes. Sew or tie up securely. Place in a jar, put 
three pounds of sugar to enough vinegar to cover 
them, and pour boiling hot over mangoes. Garlic or 
onions chopped in the stuffing improve it, but many 
object to it. — mrs. E. l. c. 

SWEET PICKLE MANGOES. 

Take cantaloupes not quite ripe, take the inside 
out and brine them four days. Then take them out and 
soak and wash until fresh. Then boil in vinegar 
four or five times. Then stuff with small portions of 
rind cut up, mustard seed, celery seed and horse-rad- 
ish. Then take fresh vinegar and to one pint put 
one pound of sugar. Boil over in the sweet vinegar. 
Put in spices according to taste. — MRS. e. f. g. 

DRESSING FOR FORTY MANGOES. 

Gather the melons a size larger than a goose egg, 
put them in a jar, pour strong boiling salt water over 
them ; the next day cut a slit and take out the seed, 
then return them to the brine. Let them remain 
eight days. Then put them in a strong vinegar for 
a fortnight ; then wipe them out nicely with a soft 
cloth. Stuff them with the following ingredients; 
sew them up and put in a jar with the slits up, and 
keep covered with the best vinegar. 



PICKLES. 93 

Wash one pound of white ginger, put boiling 
water on it; let it stand twenty-four hours; slice 
and dry. 

One pound of horse-radish, scraped and dried; one 
pound of white mustard seed and six ounces of 
celery seed, washed and dried ; one pound of chopped 
onions, one ounce of mace, one ounce of nutmeg, 
pounded fine, and two ounces of turmeric, a handful 
of grain pepper, sugar to taste. Make all in a paste 
with a quarter of a pound of mustard and a bottle 
of oil. — MES. T. T. 

YELLOW PICKLE. 

Take heads of cabbage and cut in quarters and 
brine four clays ; then soak until fresh in cold water ; 
put on in a kettle with vinegar and enough turmeric 
thrown in to color the cabbage yellow ; boil until 
nearly tender. Drain through a colander and then, 
to fill a three-gallon jar, put on in a kettle ; 

1J gal. strong vinegar. 

5 lbs. brown sugar. 

I lb. grated horse-radish. 

i lb. ground ginger. 

I lb. garlic. 

\ lb. white mustard seed. 

\ lb. celery seed. 

1 lb. allspice. 

2 oz. cloves. 
2 oz. mace. 

2 tablespoonfuls pepper. 

2 or 3 green or red peppers. 
Put in cabbage and cook until perfectly tender. 
It is an elegant pickle, good at once but improves by 
age. — MRS. E. L. c. 



94 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

CHOPPED CABBAGE PICKLE. 

To one gallon of cabbage cut in shreds, put half 
a gallon of good vinegar, one dozen chopped onions, 
half an ounce each of ground black pepper and all- 
spice, a little salt, a pod of red pepper, and two pounds 
of brown sugar. Boil the whole of the mixture and 
cabbage together until clear. — MPvS. s. s. 

CHOPPED PICKLE CABBAGE. 

Two gallons chopped cabbage with a half-pint of 
salt sprinkled through it. After two hours squeeze it 
out and dry. Add 5 tablespoonfuls ground mustard 
3 gills mustard seed. 

2 tablespoonfuls cloves. 

3 tablespoonfuls celery seed. 
1 lb. brown sugar. 

1 pint chopped onions. 
3 qts. strong cider vinegar. 
Mix the ingredients, and boil until thick in a bell- 
metal kettle. — mrs. e. w. b. 

SWEET PICKLE CANTALOUPE. 

Peel and cut as many half-ripe cantaloupes as 3^011 
wish and put in salt and water (not strong brine) in 
the morning, and let stand until evening. Then wash 
off and soak all night. Scald the cantaloupe in a kettle 
next morning with grape leaves, water and a little 
vinegar (if you like them to look very green, drop a 
piece of alum in the water.) Then take out with a 
fork and place in your jar. Measure your vinegar 
as you pour it over them. Pour the vinegar off and 
put in the kettle with half-pound of sugar to one pint 
of vinegar. Tie up cloves in a bag and add cinnamon 



PICKLES. 95 

and mace after it boils. Drop your cantaloupe in and 
cook until you think it done. Be sure anl have 
enough vinegar, as it boils down so much. — MRS. 
s. F. R. 

CANTALOUPE PICKLE. 

Take cantaloupes just on the eve of being ripe, cut 
them up, pare and trim them, then cover them with 
strong vinegar, which they must stay in three days, 
at the end of which time pour off, and for every quart 
of vinegar allow three pounds of brown sugar. Scald 
the vinegar and sugar. Add spices to your taste, and 
when it is boiling hot put in the cantaloupe and boil 
until transparent. — MRS. judge j. e. h. — MRS. T. 

E. C. C. 

CANTALOUPE PICKLE. 

Take a cantaloupe before it is perfectly ripe, pare 
off the rind and part of the inside, cut it into pieces 
as large as you like (say two or three inches square), 
cover it with vinegar and let it stand three days. 
Pour off the vinegar and to every quart of vinegar 
put three pounds of sugar (some say two is better), 
nutmeg, cloves, mace, celery seed, etc., to your taste. 
After it has boiled put in the cantaloupe and boil until 
done. — MRS. A. J. L. 

CUCUMBER PICKLE. 

3 oz. allspice. 
3 oz. ginger. 
2 oz. cloves. 
2 oz. nutmeg. 
2 oz. mace. 



96 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

1 oz. cinnamon. 

1 teacupful celery seed. 

1 teacupful mustard seed. 

1 can mustard. 

18 lbs. sugar. 

1 gal. vinegar. 

6 gals, cucumbers. 
Throw the cucumbers into brine that will bear an 
egg^ and allow them to stay certainly two weeks, but 
longer if you wish. They will stand a month if not 
convenient for you to use them right away. When 
ready to pickle them, soak in fresh water until fresh 
enough to suit the taste, being careful to change the 
water every day, otherwise they will get soft. Then 
scald them in vinegar (let them come to a good boil) 
in a bell-metal kettle, which will green them. Put 
them in a jar, fill with cold vinegar and let them stand 
two weeks longer. Then they are ready to be sea- 
soned. The vinegar they are scalded in cannot be 
used about them afterwards. — mrs. dr. s. g. f. 

CUCUMBER PICKLE. 

Take cucumber pickles that have already been made, 
slice them, some lengthwise, some crosswise; slice some 
onions rather thick — lay the onions in salt water. Into 
a kettle put one quart of best vinegar made very sweet 
with brown sugar and colored strongly with turmeric 
Season highly with cinnamon, cloves, allspice, mace 
white and black mustard seed, celery seed and curry 
powder, and let all boil well. Then put in cucumbers 
and onions. Boil till the cucumbers are a rich citron 
color. Let them cool and tie or seal in jars. — MRS. 

E. W. B. 



PICKLES. 97 

YELLOW PICKLE. 

Prepare the articles as directed on p 86. then for 
the spiced vinegar, take : 

1 pint of black mustard seed. 
1 pint of white " " 

4 oz. broken ginger. 
3 oz. long black pepper. 
1 oz. allspice. 
1 oz. cloves. 

1 oz. mace. 

2 oz. turmeric. 

2 oz. radish seed. 

1 teacupful grated horse-radish. 
J teacupful celery seed. 

1 handful garlic. 

3 lemons. 

6 lbs. brown sugar. 

2 gallons cider vinegar. 

This can be made and set aside until ready for 
use. — MRS. v. c. P 

ENGLISH CHOW-CHOW. 

Use principally small onions, cucumbers and cauli- 
flower. Bleach the cucumbers, beans, etc., as 
for yellow pickle. Scald the onions and cauliflower 
in salt water, and set in the sun to dry. Make a 
dressing of : 

10 tablespoonfuls mustard. 
14 tablespoonfuls sweet oil. 
4 tablespoonfuls salt. 
4 tablespoonfuls brown sugar. 
2 tablespoonfuls turmeric. 



98 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

4 tablespoonfuls curry powder. 
2 tablespoonfuls pepper vinegar. 
Mix well and then with i gallon vinegar, boil 
until smooth, stirring all the time. Pour hot over the 
pickles. When cold pour over a little oil and seal. — 

MRS. V. C. P. 

CHOW-CHOW. 

Three-quarters of a peck of green tomatoes, two 
large cabbages, eighteen large onions, twenty-five 
cucumbers. Cut each in small pieces, sprinkle with 
salt, and let stand all night. Then drain and press 
from the liquor, cover with equal parts of vinegar 
and water for two days. Then drain and press off 
the liquor. Add ; 

1 pint grated horse-radish 

i pint sweet oil. 

1 quart small onions. 

i lb mustard seed. 

1 oz. celery seed. 

i lb. mustard. 

1 teaspoonful black pepper. 

1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 

1 tablespoonful turmeric. 
Boil one and one half gallons vinegar with four pounds 
brown sugar and pour hot over the pickle. Drain off and 
boil the next day, also the second day, making three 
scaldings. " I mix well and boil all twenty minutes. 
Very good.": — MRS. v. c. p. 

MUSTARD PICKLE. 

Take two large boxes of mustard and rub into it 
one-third of a pint of good salad oil and a little 



PICKLES. 9 J 

vinegar until a smooth paste is made. Add to this 
two cups of brown sugar, one of grated horse-radish, 
one of race ginger, half-cup of white mustard seed, 
half-cup of celery seed, half ounce turmeric, one table, 
spoonful each of ground cloves, allspice and cayenne 
pepper. Put all these ingredients in a stone jar two- 
thirds full of good cider vinegar. Set the jar in a 
vessel of cold water over the fire and boil for two or 
three hours, stirring occasionally. After it comes from 
the lire, fill the jar with white cabbage heads cut up 
fine, tender beans, cauliflower, small onions and sliced 
cucumbers. I always parboil my vegetables in salt 
and water and set them on dishes, so that they will 
drain well, before filling the jar. This pickle will 
keep for years, and as the vegetables are used more 
can be added. — mbs. a. l. f. 

MUSTARD PICKLES. 

1 lb best mustard. 

i pint salad oil, rubbed into a smooth paste with 
vinegar. 

£ oz. white pepper. 

i oz. cayenne pepper. 

\ oz. horse-radish (grated). 

2 oz. white ginger. 
1 oz. celery seed. 

Put all these ingredients in a stone jar with one 
gallon of vinegar and one pound of brown sugar. Set 
jar in a pot of cold water over stove and let boil for 
three hours, stirring occasionally. After it comes 
from the fire add two ounces white mustard seed, 
tablespoonful of turmeric. While at the boiling 
point stir two heads of cabbage finely shred, half 



100 HOUSEKEEPERS COMPANION. 

peck of sliced cucumbers, tender beans, corn, two 
dozen small onions sliced fine. This pickle will keep 
for- years ; can add fresh vegetables to same vinegar. 
— MISS B. p. 

CELERY SAUCE. 

Chop fine hard white cabbage and onions. Pour 
over each hot brine. In twenty-four hours drain and 
press all the water from them. Loosen them and to 
each half gallon of the cabbage put a small cup of 
the onion. 

1 lb. brown sugar. 

1 small box mustard. 

i lb. white mustard seed. 

1 small cup of grated horse-radish. 

2 oz. nutmeg. 

\ oz. celery seed. 

1 oz. turmeric. 

1 tablespoonful black pepper (ground). 

i gallon chopped celery. 
If impossible to get bleached celery use two ounces 
of celery seed. Mix well and cover with cold vine- 
gar. If you, can get nasturtium seed, use one pint of 
them. They improve all pickle, but are hard to find. 
— MRS. V. c. P. 

YELLOW PICKLE CABBAGE. 

Scald the cabbage in salt and water until tender, 
then drain off the water and put in the sun for 
several clays, covered well with salt (lay it on an old 
table cloth), then throw it into plain turmeric vine- 
gar and let it remain a week. Squeeze it well, then 
put it into the vinegar prepared as follows : 



PRESERVES. 101 

1£ gallons vinegar. 

2 lbs sugar. 

2 oz. nutmeg, 

2 oz. turmeric. 

2 oz. allspices. 

2 oz. mace. 

2 oz. pepper. 

4 oz. ginger. 

4 oz. mustard seed. 

1 oz. cloves. 

1 handful horse-radish. 

1 teacupful garlic. 

2 fresh lemons (cut up). 
2 pods red pepper. 

i cupful celery seed. 
Beat the spices and put all in a bag. — MRS. E. 

W. B. 



PRESERVES. 

DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING PRESERVES. 
Before beginning on the fruit, the jars and crocks 
should be thoroughly cleansed. Wash the jars in 
warm ammonia water, rinse and wipe dry. When 
cooking fruit use a porcelain-lined kettle, if possible, 
but where you have a bell-metal kettle, and prefer to 
use it, it should be very bright and clean. Some use 
tin when cooking fruit, which is a very poor plan, 
more particularly in the cooking of acid fruits, as the 
latter are sure to eat the coating from the tin. This 
kind of ware should never be used for the above pur- 
pose, if it can be conveniently avoided, for, aside from 
discoloring the fruit, it is positively dangerous. As 



102 1IOUSPKEEPEIVS COMPANION. 

fruit darkens if left standing for any length of time 
after paring, many housewives do not pare but just 
the quantity to be cooked at once, but if the fruit is 
dropped into cold water immediately after paring it 
will prevent discoloration, and as much fruit can be 
pared as you wish to use that day. Hard fruits, such 
as quinces and hard pears, should be scalded with 
boiling water and left in the water until the syrup is 
ready to drop them in. All delicate fruit should be 
done gently, and not allowed to remain more than 
half an hour after it begins to boil before it is laid on 
dishes to cool ; it must be put into the syrup again 
for the same time ; continue this until it is sufficiently 
transparent. The advantage of this method is thai 
the preserves are less liable to boil to pieces, than 
when done all at one time. Cook only a little fruit 
at a time if you wish it to look nice and whole. The 
best syrup is made by allowing two pounds of sugar 
to a pint of water, and just before it comes to the boil 
adding the white of an egg, slightly beaten, to clarify 
it Remove all the scum that arises and there will 
be a beautiful clear syrup. Delicate preserves should 
be kept in small glasses or pots that will not hold 
more than two or three pounds, as the admission of 
air injures them. Cut papers to fit the glasses, dip 
them in brandy, alcohol, or white of an egg, and press 
them closely on top of the preserves or jelly. 

TO PRESERVE APPLES. 

Weigh equal quantities of Newtown pippins, and 
the best of sugar. Allow one sliced lemon for every 
pound. Make a syrup and then put in the apples. 
Boit them until they are tender. Then lay them into 



PEE SERVES. 103 

jars and boil the syrup until it will become a jelly. 
No other apple can be preserved without breaking. 
This keeps its shape and is very beautiful. Quarter 
the apples or take out the core and leave them whole, 
as you prefer. Other sour hard apples are very good 
preserved, but none keep as well, or are as pretty as 
the Newton pippins. — MRS. A. J. L. 

PRESERVED PEARS. 

To six pounds of pears, four pounds of sugar, two 
coffee cups of water, the juice of two lemons, and the 
rind, of one, a handful of whole ginger, Boil all to 
gether for twenty minutes, then put in your pears 
and boil till soft, say about a quarter of an hour. 
Take them out and boil your syrup a little longer, 
then put back your fruit and give it a boil, put in 
jars while hot. — MRS. A. J. L. 

TO PRESERVE PURPLE PLUMS. 

Make a syrup of clean brown sugar, clarify ; when 
perfectly clear and boiling hot, pour it over the 
plums, having picked out all unsound ones and stems. 
Let them remain in the syrup two days, then drain 
it off, make it boiling hot, skim it and pour it over 
again. Let them remain another day or two, then 
put them in a preserving kettle over the fire and 
simmer gently until the syrup is reduced and thick or 
rich. One pound of sugar for each pound of plums. 
Clarify the syrup and when boiling hot put in the 
plums. Let them boil very gently, and when done 
put in jars. — MRS. A. J. L. 

QUINCE PRESERVE. 

Pare, core, and quarter your fruit, then weigh it 



101 ' HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION'. 

and allow an equal quantity of white sugar. Take 
the partings and cores and put in a preserving kettle, 
cover them with water and boil for half an hour, then 
strain through a hair sieve and put the juice back 
into the kettle and boil the quinces in it a few at a 
time until they are tender ; lift out as they are done 
with a drainer and lay on a dish ; if the liquid seems 
scarce add more water. When all are done throw in 
the sugar and allow it to boil ten minutes before 
putting in the quinces. Let them boil until they 
change color, sa} T one hour and a quarter on a slow 
fire ; while they are boiling occasionally slip a silver 
spoon under them to see that they do not burn, but 
on no account stir them. Have two fresh lemons cut 
in thin slices and when the fruit is being put in jars, 
lay a slice or two in each. — P. 

TO PRESERVE STRAWBERRIES. 
Put in a bowl alternate layers of a pound of straw- 
berries and a pound of sugar, till you have in each 
bowl three pounds of fruit. Let it stand an hour or 
two. Put it on the fire, and in twenty minutes from 
the time it begins to boil, it will be done. Keep 
them in glass tumblers. — MRS. S. s. 

TO PRESERVE STRAWBERRIES. 

Put three quarters of a pound of sugar to a pound 
of fruit, just putting enough water to cover the 
sugar, and let it boil. After skimming, put in your 
berries and let boil fifteen minutes. Then put the 
berries on shallow dishes, covering with half the syrup. 
Set in the sun for two days, the second day add the 
other half of syrup. — MRS. T. C. P. 



PRESERVES. 105 

PIPPINS. 

Pare the pippins, take out the eyes and stalks, after 
quartering them. To every pound of pippins put 
one pound of loaf sugar and a pint of clear spring 
water. Put the fruit in the syrup, cover them closely, 
boil briskly ten minutes, then let them cool and boil 
as long as before, repeat this two or three times till 
they are perfectly clear. Season with mace and 
essence of lemon and white ginger. — MRS. s. s. 

PRESERVED CRAB-APPLES. 

Take red Siberian crab-apples, peel, leave stems 
on. Allow one and one quarter pounds of sugar and 
half cup of water to every p°rmd of fruit. Boil 
water and sugar until the scum ceases to rise. To the 
syrup add the juice of one lemon to three pounds of 
fruit. Add the fruit, boil until tender, and can im- 
mediately. — MRS. A. J. L. 

CRAB-APPLES. 

Pick them full of holes with a large needle, then 
pour boiling water to them and let them stand until 
cold. Drain the water from them, pack in sugar, let 
them stand two hours. Use one and one quarter 
pounds of sugar to one pound of fruit. — MRS. T. 
C. P. 

BLACKBERRIES. 

To one pound of low-running blackberries, allow 
one pound of sugar. Put them together in the pre- 
serving kettle, the fruit first and the sugar on top. 
These berries are so juicy that no water will be neces- 
sary, but -they must begin very slowly to stew and 



106 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

boil gently an hour or more until perfectly done. 

— MRS. A. J. L. 

CANTALOUPE (whole). 

Put it in brine for three days, then put it in fresh 
water and soak until free from salt, then boil in alum 
water one hour ; then rub the kettle well, and boil 
in fresh water one hour, drop it in cold water, and 
rub the kettle again, and boil in fresh water another 
hour. Clean the kettle again, and put one pound and a 
quarter of sugar to one pound of the melon, and 
enough water to cover it, and boil one hour, Flavor 
with extract or fresh lemon. — mrs. r. d. s. 

CANTALOUPE PRESERVES. 

Seleet ripe cantaloupes, remove the seed, pare and 
slice. To every pound of rind add one pound of 
sugar, and two lemons for every five pounds of rind. 
Cook at once ; no need of brine — miss o. w. 

CHERRIES. 

The most beautiful cherries to preserve are the 
carnation and common light red with short stems. 
Select the finest that are not too ripe. Take an equal 
weight with the cherries of double refined sugar, make 
it into a syrup and preserve them without stoning, 
and with the stems on. If they be done carefully, 
and the directions for preserving closely attended to, 
the stems will not come off, and they will be so trans- 
parent that the stones may be seen. — MRS. R. 



FRUIT, JELLIES, MARMALADES, ETC. 107 
TO PRESERVE CLINGSTONE PEACHES. 

Get the finest clingstones, pare them and lay 
them in a bowl ; take their weight of sugar and 
sprinkle it over them as they are put in ; let them 
stand two or three hours, put them together with 
the sugar into the kettle, add a little water and let 
the peaches remain till thoroughly scalded. Take 
them out with the ladle, draining off the syrup. 
Should there not be enough syrup to cover the peaches 
add more water, boil it and skim it, return the fruit 
to the kettle and boil them gently till quite clear. 
To preserve them in halves, take a knife and cut the 
peach to the sharp sides of the kernel all around. 
Then wring one half from the kernel, and cutoff the 
other as close to the kernel as possible. Have their 
weight in sugar and preserve as the others. — G. 



TO PRESERVE PEARS. 

To every pound of pears put three quarters of a 
pound of sugar. Pour boiling water over the fruit 
and let it stand until the syrup has boiled twenty 
minutes, then put in the pears and cook about twenty 
minutes, then take them out on a large dish and set 
in the sun. When perfectly cold put back in the 
syrup and boil until transparent. Take them out 
again and set in the sun and boil the syrup until 
quite thick, then return the fruit again to the syrup 
and let it come to a boil, when it will be ready to be 
put in the jars. Flavor with ginger or cinnamon. 
In peeling any fruit for preserving or canning, always 
drop it in cold water to prevent its becoming dis- 
colored. — MRS. S. L. G. 



108 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

PRESERVED CITRON. 

To six pounds of citron use four and a half pounds 
of sugar, four lemons and a quarter of a pound of 
ginger root. Slice the lemons and boil them till they 
look clear. Save the water they are boiled in, re- 
moving them from it into a dish of cold water, where 
they may stand over night. In the morning scrape 
and clean the ginger root, slice it into three parts of 
water, and boil it in the water one hour. Add to the 
ginger water, the water the lemons were cooked in, 
and the sugar, stirring till it is melted. Skim this 
syrup well. When the syrup is clear, drop in the 
citron and slices of lemon. Cook till the citron is 
transparent. These preserves are excellent to serve 
with ice-cream or around an iced pudding. Cut in 
fancy shapes. — MRS. A. J. L. 

FIGS. 

Scald the figs and let stand till cold. Make a 
syrup of one pound of sugar, and half pint of water 
to each pound of figs. Let the syrup come to a boil, 
then drop in the figs and cook slowly until done. 
This recipe is for little brown figs. — miss. S. d. 

GOOSEBERRIES. 

Gather the berries when the} 7 have attained their 
full size but are of a good green color. Put them in 
a kettle with a little water to keep them from stick- 
ing to the kettle. Stew them a little while, then add 
the sugar, three quarters of a pound to the pound of 
fruit. Cook them till the syrup is thick, but not 
until they turn reddish. Put them in air-tight jars. 
Quart jars preferred. Thgy are delicious on pastry. 
—MISS M. G. 



FEE SERVES. 109 

WATER-MELON RIND. 

Cut the rind in any shapes fancied (such as flowers, 
fruits, leaves, grapes, fish, etc.), put in brine strong 
enough to float an egg^ cover closely with grape 
leaves, and set away the jar. When ready to make 
the preserves, soak the rind in fresh water, changing 
it till all taste of salt is removed from the rind. Dis- 
solve four tablespoonfuls pulverized alum in one 
gallon water. Lay the rind in this, covered closely 
with grape or cabbage leaves. Simmer till it becomes 
a pretty green, then soak out the alum by throwing 
the rind in soft water. Pour boiling water on half a 
pound of white ginger and let it stand long enough 
to soften sufficiently to slice easily in thin pieces 
(retaining the shape of the races as much as pos- 
sible). Then boil it an hour in half a gallon of 
water and two pounds best cut sugar. This makes 
a thin syrup, in which boil the rind gently for half 
an hour, adding water to keep the rind covered with 
syrup. Take out and set away for four days and 
then boil again as before, adding two pounds of sugar 
and more water if necessary. Repeat the boiling six 
or seven times, till the syrup is rich and thick and 
sufficient to cover the rind. See that the fruit is 
kept covered with syrup, adding water if necessary., 
Allow two pounds of sugar to each pound of fruit. 
The ginger called for above will flavor two gallons 
of rind. This keeps indefinitely 3 and never ferments. 
— MISS M. G. 



110 HOUSEKEEPERS COMPANION. 



FRUIT JELLIES, MARMALADES, ETC. 

The great secret of making nice fruit jelly is to 
boil the syrup well before adding the sugar (which 
should always be loaf or cut), and a pound to the 
pint of juice is the only safe rule. The best jelly bag 
is made of new flannel. Take a square of flannel 
and fold it to make a double three-cornered piece ; 
sew up one side. Quince jelly is easily made from 
parings and odd pieces of fruit left, after preserving, 
but it is not well to leave the seeds in as they tend 
to make the jelly sticky and ropy. Grape jelty should 
be made before the grapes turn, In making jelly, do 
but little at a time, to keep it of light color and crisp 
and firm. Bright, fair weather improves the color 
and flavor of jelly. Jellies should stand open a day 
or two after being put into glasses, that the moisture 
may evaporate, but they should be protected from 
dust. If thin, let them stand in the sun's rays. In 
a day or two cut papers to fit the glasses, dip these 
in brandy or alcohol or white of an egg^ and press 
them closely on top of the jelly. Finally, put the 
covers on the glasses or cover with paper, pasting the 
edges down 

APPLE JELLYo 

One pound of apples, three pints of water ? one 
pound of loaf sugar to each pint of juice. Quarter 
the apples, do not peel them, add the water, bring 
them to a boil, then boil rapidly for thirty minutes. 
Strain, and to the juice add the sugar, then boil 
again thirty minutes. — miss O. W. 



FRUIT, JELLIES, MARMALADES, ETC. Ill 
CURRANT JELLY. 

Pick full ripe currants from the stem, and put them 
in a stone pot ; then set it in an iron pot of water. 
Take care that no water gets in. When the currants 
have yielded their juice, pour them into a jelly bag. 
Let it run as long as it will without pressing, which 
must be reserved for the best jelly. You may then 
squeeze the bag to make inferior kind. To each 
pint of this juice put one pound of sugar. Boil it 
fifteen minutes, skim it clean and put it in glasses. 
Expose them daily to the sun to prevent fermenta- 
tion. — miss M. G. 

QUINCE JELLY. 

Prepare the quinces as before directed, that is, let 
them ripen after they are gathered until they are a 
pretty color. Take off the stems and wash them 
clean and cut them in slices without paring, but leave 
out the seed. Fill the kettle, pour in water to cover 
them. Stew them gently, putting in a little water 
occasionally, till they are soft. Then pour them into 
a jelly bag. Let all the juice run through without 
pressing it. This must be set aside for the test jelly. 
To each pint of this put a pound of sugar and boil it 
to a jelly. The bag may be squeezed for an inferior 
but a very nice jelly. — G. 

JELLY OF RASPBERRY, BLACKBERRY AND CURRANT. 

Put the fruit in a kettle and let it boil until the 
juice is extracted. Pour out and let it set until the 
next day. Strain without pressing, and to each pint 
of juice allow one pound of loaf sugar. Boil half an 
hour. Put immediately in glasses. All jelly should 



112 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

buil slowly and steadily. If allowed to stop boiling 
even a few minutes, it is not apt to harden well. — 

MRS. V. C. P. 



RIPE GRAPE MARMALADE. 

First pulp the grapes, then put the pulps in a pre- 
serving kettle with an equal quantity of water. Boil 
them until the seed will leave the pulp (which will 
require some time), then strain and rub through a 
colander, leaving the seeds in the colander to be 
thrown away. To the strained pulp add the raw 
skins and one pound of sugar to each pint, and boil 
till thoroughly done. — MRS. M. A. w. 

PEACH MARMALADE. 

Take the ripest soft peaches (the yellow ones make 
the prettiest marmalade), pare them and take out 
the stones. Put them in the kettle with one pound 
of dry light-colored brown sugar to two of peaches. 
When they are juicy they do not require water. 
With a silver or wooden spoon chop them with the 
sugar. Continue to do this, and let them boil gently 
till they are a transparent pulp that will be a jelly 
when cold. Puffs of this marmalade are very deli- 
cious. — MRS. R. 

MORELLO CHERRIES. 

Take out the stones and save the juice that runs 
from them. Put to the juice a pound of sugar for 
each pound of cherries, weighed after they are stoned. 
Boil and skim the syrup, then put in the fruit and 
stew till quite clear. — MRS. R. 



FRUIT. JELLIES, MARMALADES, ETC. 113 

PINEAPPLE MARMALADE. 

Grate the pineapple, weigh it and the juice, and 
put pound of sugar to pound of fruit and juice to- 
gether. Cook it to a jam. — MRS. J. G. F. 

LEMON JAM. 

One dozen lemons, six quarts of water, seven 
pounds of white sugar. Cut up lemons, rind, pulp, 
and all and pour the water over them over night. 
Then parboil two hours. Add sugar and boil twenty 
minutes. It is very nice. — MRS. E. L. c. 

PEACH CHIPS. 

Cut the peaches very thin, weigh them, put half 
the weight of the peaches in sugar. Put them in to 
boil, and boil until a straw goes through easily. 
Drain the peaches from the syrup, put on dishes and 
dry. When dry enough, sprinkle with sugar and put 
up in a jar. It depends so much upon the weather, 
that it is impossible to state definitely the time 
required. Take the syrup left from the peaches and 
put one quarter as much brandy and bottle it. It 
makes very nice liqueur for seasoning. — MRS. DR. 
S. G. F. 

TO DRY CHERRIES. 

Stone them and save the juice. Weigh the cher- 
ries and allow one pound of good brown sugar to 
three of the fruit. Boil it with the juice, put the 
cherries in and stew them fifteen or twenty minutes. 
Take them out, drain off the syrup, and lay the cher- 
ries on dishes, to dry, in the sun. Keep the syrup, 
to pour over a little at a time, as it dries on the cher- 



114 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

ries. Turn them over frequently. When all the 
syrup is used, put the cherries away in pots, sprin- 
kling a little powdered loaf sugar between the layers. 
They make excellent pies, puddings and charlottes. 

— MRS. R. 



CANNED FRUIT. 

DIRECTIONS FOR CANNING FRUIT. 

First — Can the fruit the same day it is gathered. 
More than half the secret of having fine preserves 
lies in this direction. 

Second — Never can fruit without adding as much 
sugar as you wish to prepare it for the table. This 
is important, else your fruit will be leathery. Use, 
I should say, one quarter of a pound of sugar to 
every pound of fruit, at least. Taste and try. Pare 
and extract the pit, cut in halves and plunge in cold 
water, until ready to cook, else your fruit will be 
dark. This of course does not apply to all kinds of 
fruit. Examine your cans and rubbers carefully, 
before beginning, and see that they are in good or- 
der. Place your cans in any vessel where they can 
stand at least half way up in boiling water and keep 
so until sealed. This applies when the fruit is cooked 
in a kettle and then put in the jars. I usually take 
a large dripping pan and put it on top of the stove 
at one side while my preserving kettle is on the 
other. Make your syrup, and when it comes to a 
boil, put in your fruit and cook until you can pierce 
it with a broom straw. Skim out and put in the 
cans, and when they are full, pour the boiling hot 



CANNED FRUIT. 115 

syrup over the fruit. Wipe off the tops with a cloth 
wet with hot water, being careful that no syrup 
remains on them. Then put on your covers and 
seal. Then wipe off the whole jar carefully with hot 
wet cloth. Everything must be hot from beginning 
to end — hot cans, hot water, hot sealing, and worse 
than all, hot hands and face and body. — MRS. E. F. G. 

CANNED PEACHES. 

Pare your peaches and cut them in halves if free- 
stone (removing the kernel). If clingstones leave 
them whole or divide them. Drop them in cold 
water. Place them in cans and cover with a syrup, 
allowing one quarter of a pound of sugar to each 
pound of fruit. Place your cans in your ham boiler 
(having put a piece of plank in the bottom), having 
water enough in the boiler to boil without boiling 
over. Place on the covers without the rubbers. 
When you can pierce the peaches with a straw, take 
out of the water and seal carefully. — miss m. g. 

CANNED PEAKS. 

Pare your pears, cut in size to suit yourself and 
drop in cold water. To each pound of fruit allow 
quarter pound of sugar and sufficient water to cover 
them. When you can, pierce them with a straw, put 
them in glass cans with the syrup, and seal carefully. 

— MISS M. G. 

CANNED TOMATOES. 

Pour boiling water over the tomatoes^ Peel and 
cut out any hard or defective parts. Put in a col- 
ander and drain out all of the water that can be 



116 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

gotten out of them. Then put in a kettle and boil a 
while, then dip out the juice. Then put sugar and 
salt to taste and boil down until they are of the 
desired consistency. — miss m. g. 

BRANDY PEACHES. 

Pare carefully good clingstone peaches. To each 
pound of peaches add one half of a pound of good 
granulated sugar and a little water. Let them boil 
till you can pierce them with a straw. Put into air- 
tight glass cans, and fill the cans full of the peaches 
and half full of syrup. Then fill up the can with 
good brandy or whiskey and seal up. — miss m. g. 



WINES, SYRUPS, ETC. 

BLACKBERRY WINE. 

Mash the berries well in a pan, squeeze through a 
thin cloth. To one gallon of juice add two and one 
half pounds of granulated sugar. Pour into a cask 
or demijohn, tie a piece of mosquito net over the 
mouth and let it stand until fermentation is over, 
then draw off and bottle. — MRS. dr. s. g. f. 

BLACKBERRY WINE. 

Measure your berries and bruise them and to every 
gallon add one pint of water. Let them stand twen- 
ty-four hours to ferment, stirring them occasionally. 
Then strain off the juice and to every gallon allow 
three pounds of sugar. Put in a cask and let it 
stand until October and then rack it off and bottle. 

— MRS. E. F. G. 



WINES, SYRUPS, ETC. 117 

BLACKBERRY SYRUP. 

To two quarts of blackberry juice, add half an 
ounce each of powdered nutmeg, cinnamon and all- 
spice, and one-quarter of an ounce of powdered 
cloves. Boil these together to get the strength of 
the spices and to preserve the berry juice. While 
hot add a pint of pure brandy and sweeten with loaf 
sugar. This is excellent for summer disorders. Dose 
for a child, two teaspoonfuls three times a day. A 
wine glass for an adult. It is best to put the spices 
in a muslin bag. — MRS. dr. w. a. t. 

BLACKBERRY BOUNCE. 

Wash and strain the blackberries, put the juice on 
to boil in a bell-metal kettle. Skim it well, and to 
each gallon of juice add three pounds of white sugar. 
After it cools, add a quart of brandy or good 
whiskey. This is valuable as a medicine for chil- 
dren. — MRS. E. F. G. 

CHERRY SHRUB. 

Gather ripe Morello cherres, pick them from the 
stem, and put them in an earthen pot, which must be 
set in an iron pot of water. Let the water boil, but 
take care that none gets into the cherries. When 
the juice is extracted, pour it into a flannel bag, 
which will permit the juice to pass but not the pulp 
of the cherries. Sweeten to your taste, and when it 
becomes perfectly clear, bottle it. Put a gill of 
brandy into each bottle before you pour in the juice. 
Cover the corks with rosin. It will keep all summer 
in a dry, cool place, and is delicious mixed with 

Wt er. — MRS. JUDGE J. E. H. 



118 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

CURRANT WINE. 

The juice of four pounds of currants, four pounds 
of loaf sugar. When dissolved, measure and add 
water enough to make one gallon of juic,e. Let it 
stand twenty-four hours. Skim, fill the jugs two- 
thirds full and cork. Set in a cool place. Bottle in 
October. This wine has taken several prizes. — mrs. 

V. C. P. 

GRAPE WINE. 

One gallon grape juice, two gallons water, three 
pounds of loaf sugar to each gallon. Dissolve and 
let it stand twenty-four hours. Skim, fill the jugs 
three-fourths full. Cork and set in a cellar until 
cold weather, then "bottle. — mrs. v. c. p. 

PARSNIP WINE. 

To one quart of parsnips sliced, put one gallon of 
water. Boil them in a bell-metal kettle, strain off 
the liquor, add two and one-half pounds of sugar and 
before it gets quite cold one teaspoonful of yeast 
(brisk). Bottle and put in a cool cellar.— mrs. dr. 
s. G. F. 

EGG-NOG. 

To each egg, one tablespoonful of sugar, one wine- 
glass of milk, one wine-glass of liquor. The sugar and 
yolks to be beaten well together, and the whites (well 
beaten) to be added by degrees. To twelve eggs, put 
eight wine-glasses of brandy or good whiskey and four 
of wine. Put the liquor in the yolks and sugar, stir- 
ring slowly all the time, then add the whites, and 
lastly the milk. — miss m. g. 



CAKES. 119 

EGG WINE. 

Beat in a tumbler a fresh egg, add a teaspoonf ul 
of sugar, and a glass of port, sherry or madeira wine, 
as ordered by the doctor, if for an invalid. — MRS. v. 
c. p. 



CAKES. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

1 dozen eggs. 

1 pound of butter. 

1 pound of sugar. 

1 pound of flour. 

1 pound of raisins, seeded and chopped. 

1 pound of almonds, blanched and chopped. 

1 pound of citron. 

2i pounds of currants, well washed and picked. 

2 tablespoonf ills of grated nutmeg. 
1 tablespoonful of allspice. 

1 tablespoonful of cloves. 

Have the cake very light, as for pound cake, then 
stir in the fruit and spices. Mix thoroughly and 
cook slowly three hours. This makes one large cake. 
— MRS. B. p. 

BLACK FRUIT CAKE. 

2i pounds of raisins. 

2 pounds of currants, 
li pounds of citron. 

1 pound of paper-shell almonds* 
li pounds of sugar. 
1 pound of flour. 



120 HOUSEKEEPERS COMPANION. 

1 pound of butter. 

14 eggs. 

1 pint of wine. 

3 nutmegs. 

1 heaping tablespoonful of cinnamon. 
Cut and seed the raisins. Wash well and dry 
thoroughly the currants. Cut up the citron very 
thin. Blanch and pound the almonds. Thoroughly 
dredge the raisins and currants with the flour. Beat the 
eggs separately and then mix. Into the butter and sugar, 
well creamed, stir gradually and alternately the eggs, 
fruit, and wine (mixed with the spices), adding the 
citron last. Pour into a w r ell greased pan, lined on 
bottom and on sides with paper and bake five hours 
in a slow oven. This will make one very large or 
two moderate-sized cakes. If a large cake, bake five 
hours ; if small, four hours, in a slow oven. — Miss 
M. G. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

14 eggs (three yolks left out). 
\l pound of sugar. 
1 pound of butter 
14 ounces of flour. 
Mix as for pound cake and flavor with brandy. 
3 pounds of raisins, seeded. 
1J pounds currants, well washed and dredged. 

1 teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

2 teaspoonfuls of nutmeg. 

1 teaspoonful of cloves. 

2 pounds of citron. 

Cut the citron in strips, and put in layers as you 
put the cake in the baking tin. — MRS. h. p. 



CAKES. 121 

FRUIT CAKE. 

2 lbs. flour. 
2 lbs. sugar. 

2 lbs. butter 
4£ lbs. raisins. 

3 lbs. citron. 

3 lbs. currants. 

1J lbs. almonds (blanched). 

20 eggs. 

li teaspoonfuls cinnamon. 

2 teaspoonfuls mace. 

2 doz. cloves and 2 nutmegs beaten together. 

i tumbler brandy. 

i tumbler wine. — MRS. dr. s. g. f. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

1 lb. flour (browned). 

1 lb. sugar. 

1 lb. butter. 

8 lbs. raisins. 

1 lb. citron. 

1 lb. currants. 

10 eggs. 

1 oz. cinnamon. 

4 nutmegs. 

1 gill of wine. 
Bake slowly in a six quart tin. — MISS O. W. 

BLACK PLUM CAKE. 

1 lb. flour. '_ J 

1 lb. sugar. 

2 lbs. currants (washed.) 
2 lbs. raisins (stoned.) 

1 lb. citron (cut fine). 



122 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

10 eggs. 

\ oz. nutmeg. 

\ oz. mace. 

1 large teaspoonful of ground cinnamon. 

1 large teaspoonful of ground cloves. 

2 wine glasses of brandy. 
1 wine glass of rose-water. 

Cream the butter and sugar veiy light, add the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a high froth, then the 
yolks well beaten. Mix the fruit and spices in the 
flour, and add by degrees to the other ingredients. 
Put the brandy and rose-water last. The oven must 
be well heated, and suffered to moderate before the 
cake is put in, where it must remain three hours. — 

MRS. W. R. "H. 

BLACK CAKE. 

1 lb. flour. 
1 lb. butter. 

1 lb. sugar. 
4 lbs. raisins. 

4 lbs. currants. 

2 lbs. citron. 

i lb. sweet chocolate (grated). 

3 nutmegs. 

1| glasses of brandy. 
1 wine glass of rose-water. 
1 teaspoonful of ground spices. 
12 eggs. — mrs. v. c. p. 

IMPERIAL CAKE. 

1 lb. butter. 

1 lb. flour (sifted.) 

1 lb. raisins. 



CAKES. 123 

i lb. almonds (blanched and sliced thin). 

£ lb. citron. 

8 eggs (beaten separately). 

2 wine glasses of wine. 

A little mace. — MRS. M. C. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

1 cupful brown sugar. 

1 cupful molasses. 

1 cupful butter. 

1 cupful strained coffee. 

4 cupfuls flour. 

1 lb. raisins. 

1 lb. currants. 

1 wine glass brandy. 

1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 

1 tablespoonful cloves. 

2 nutmegs. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder. — MRS. B. h. 

CURRANT CAKE. 

4 cupfuls flour (sifted). 

2 cupfuls sugar. • ; • 
1 cupful butter. 

i cupful milk. 

I lb. currants (dredged in flour). 

5 eggs. 

i nutmeg. 

3 teaspoonfuls baking-powder. — MRS. Y. C. P. 

x t WHITE FRUIT CAKE. 

II lbs. sugar. 
1£ lbs. flour. 



124 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

1£ lbs. butter. 

li lbs. almonds (blanched and pounded), 

3 1 lbs. citron. 

1 large cocoanut (grated). 

1 teacupful white wine. 

1 large lemon. 

Whites of 20 eggs. 
Dredge all of the fruit with the flour. Into the 
butter and sugar well-creamed gradually and alter- 
nately stir eggs, fruit and flavoring. — miss. m. G. 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE. 

1 lb. sugar. 

1 lb. flour. 

I lb. butter. 

1 lb. almonds (blanched and pounded), 

1 lb. citron (sliced thin.) 

1 cocoanut (grated.) 

"Whites of 16 eggs. — miss s. a. i*. 

CITRON CAKE. 

1 lb. flour. 

1 lb. sugar. 

I lb. butter. 

1 lb. citron (cut in strips). 

1 wine-glass of wine. 

10 eggs. 
Put in the pan in alternate layers of batter and 
citron. Let the batter be thick at the bottom, a thin 
layer on top. — MRS. V. c. P. 

GERMAN MONDELL CAKE. 

1 lb. sugar. 
4 lb. butter. 



LAYER FRUIT CAKES. 125 

i lb. flour. 

1 lb. almonds. 

6 eggs. 
Work butter and sugar to a cream, beat eggs 
separately, add the yolks, then flour, then the whites 
beaten to a stiff froth, blanch the almonds and cut 
them fine ; put them in layers through the cake, as 
you put it in the tin to bake. — MRS. H. P. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

1 cupful butter. 

3 cupf uls sugar. 

5 cupf uls flour. 

1 cupful sweet milk. 

1 grated cocoanut. 

3 teaspoonfuls baking-powder. 

Whites of 6 eggs.— mrs. T. c. p. 



LAYER FRUIT CAKES. 

ROCHESTER CAKE. 

4 cupfuls sugar. 

6 cupfuls flour. 

1J cupfuls milk. 

1J cupfuls butter. 

1 teaspoonful cream-tartar. 

\ teaspoonful soda. 
Divide this mixture and to one half add two large 
cupfuls of raisins (or one pound,) half pound of 
citron, two teaspoonfuls of powdered cinnamon, one 
of cloves, one of spice and a little nutmeg. Bake in 
layers and spread between and over cake an icing 



126 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

made of the whites of three eggs, one pound of sugar 
and one large grated cocoanut. — MRS. DR. E. w. R., 
and MRS. A. J. l. 

ROCHESTER CAKE. 

2 cupfuls sugar. 

3 cupfuls flour. 
§ cupful butter. 

1 cupful sweet milk. 

1 teaspoonful cream-tartar, 
i teaspoonful soda. 

3 eggs. 
Bake half of this mixture in two oblong or square 
tins. To the other half, add one teaspoonful 
molasses, one full cup of chopped raisins, one quarter 
of a pound of citron sliced thin, one teaspoonful of 
cinnamon, one half teaspoonful of cloves, sfeme of 
allspice and nutmeg each. Bake as above. Put one 
layer of fruit, then one of plain cake with fruit jelly 
between This quantity makes four layers, two of 
fruit and two of the plain. — MRS. E. A. M. 

MINNEHAHA CAKE. 

11 cupfuls butter, 

2 cupfuls sugar. 

3 cupfuls flour (very light cupfuls). 
J cupful milk. 

li teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
5 eggs. 
Bake in layers. 

Filling. 

i lb. raisins. 
J lb. figs. 



LAYER FRUIT CAKES. 127 

J lb. dates. 

li lbs. walnuts. 
Chop the fruit and nuts fine and mix with a 
boiled icing of two cupfuls of sugar and the whites of 
two eggs. Spread between layers. Make another icing 
and cover it all over after trimming neatly. Decorate 
with halves of walnuts, saved from the li pounds, 
by placing them on the top and around the sides while 
the icing is soft. — MRS. u. B. Q. 

VARIETY CAKE. 

4 eggs. 

2 cupfuls flour (sifted). 

1J cupful sugar. 

i cupful butter. 

i cupful milk. 

1 teaspoon ful yeast-powder. 

Divide this hatter in three parcels. Bake two parts in 
jelly cake-tins. To the third parcel add half teacupful 
chopped raisins, half teaspoonful powdered cloves, 
one teaspoonful cinnamon, a little nutmeg. Bake also 
in jelly-cake tin. Put alternate layers of plain and 
fruit cake with icing between each layer and on top. 

Icing for the above. 

Whites of three eggs beaten very stiff. Beat in 
gradually one pound of pulverized sugar. Beat hard. 
When stiff and dry, spread on the cakes. — MRS. V. 
c. P. 

FIG CAKE. 

2 cupfuls powdered sugar. 

3 cupfuls sifted flour. 



128 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

1 cupful milk. 

i cupful butter. 
Whites of 4 eggs. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
i lb. figs. , 

The figs are to be chopped fine, and put in a pan 
with one cupful of sugar, and one cupful of water. 
Cook slowly until it forms a thick paste, which is to 
be spread between the layers. The cake is to be 
mixed as other cakes and baked in jelly-cake tins. 
Put icing on top and sides. — MRS. w. R. H. 

RIBBON FIG CAKE. 

White Part. 
2 cupfuls sugar ; § cupful butter, creamed to- 
gether. Add § cupful milk ; 3 cupfuls flour, alter- 
nately ; 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and then the 
whites of eight eggs (beaten lightly). Bake in two 
layers. 

Gold Part. 

Beat a little more than half a cupful of butter and 
a cupful of sugar to a cream. Add the yolks of seven 
eggs and one whole egg (well beaten), half cupful of 
milk and one and one-half cupfuls of flour (mixed 
with one teaspoonful of baking powder). Season 
strongly with cinnamon and allspice. Put half of 
this gold part into a pan, lay on it halved figs closely, 
previously dusted with a little flour, then put on it 
the rest of the gold cake and bake. 

Put the gold cake between the white cakes, using 
frosting between them, and cover with frosting. — 

MRS. A. T. J. 



LAYER FRUIT CAKES. 129 

FIG CAKE. 

2 cupfuls brown sugar. 
1 cupful butter. 

1 cupful water. 

2 cupfuls chopped raisins. 

2 cupfuls currants. 

3 cupfuls flour. 

1 teaspoonful each of cloves, cinnamon, and nut- 

meg. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
i glassful of wine. 

4 eggs. 

1 lb. figs. 
Alternate with 

2 cupfuls sugar. 

1 cupful sweet milk. 
| cupful butter. 

1 cupful corn-starch. 

2 cupfuls flour. 

3 teaspoonfuls baking-powder. 
Whites of 6 eggs. — MRS. A. J. L. 

WATERMELON CAKE. 

White Part. 

Whites of 5 eggs. 

2 cupfuls white sugar. 

3 cupfuls flour, 
f cupful butter. 

f cupful milk (sweet). ' 

1 tablespoonful baking-powder. 

Red Part. 

Yolks of 5 eggs. ' -' 



130 HOUSEKEEPERS COMPANION. 

2 cupfuls flour. 1 cupful red sugar. 

3 cupful butter. J cupful sweet milk. 

1 tablespoonful bak- \ lb. raisins rolled in flour. 

ing powder. 
First put the white part into a cake pan, keeping it 
away from the centre, and well round the sides, then 
pour the red part into the centre. Trie sugar should 
be light red. — mrs. w. k. h. 

ALMOND CAKE. 

2 cnpfuls sugar. 2 cupfuls flour. 
1 cupful sweet milk. \ cupful butter. 

1 cupful corn-starch. 2 teaspoonfuls cream-tartar 
Whites of 6 eggs. (in milk). 

Cream the butter and sugar, add milk gradually, 
then the whites of eggs with flour; bake in jelly tins. 

Filling. 

Take two pounds of almonds, blanched and pounded 
flue. Beat whites and yolks of two eggs together 
lightly, add one and one-half cups of sugar, then the 
almonds and one tablespoonful vanilla. — mrs. m. o. 

COCO AN UT CAKE. 

Make cake as for cup cake, then bake in layers. 
Make an icing of three eggs, two cupfuls of sugar. 
Spread icing between layers and sprinkle with grated 
cocoanat. Dress top in same way. — mrs. e. a. m. 

NEWPORT ORANGE AND LEMON CAKE. 

3 teacupfuls of sugar. 1 teacnpful of butter. 

1 teacnpful of milk. 4 teacup fids of flour, 5 eggs. 



LAYER FRUIT CAKES. 131 

3 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
1 lemon (the juice and grated rind). 
Bake in jelly cake tins. 

Filling for Cake, 
One pound of sugar granulated and the whites of 
two eggs beaten to a stiff froth; the grated rind, 
juice and pulp of one large orange; the juice of half 
a lemon. Spread the mixture between the layers of 
cake just as you would jelly for jelly cake. — mrs. 
gov. F. L. 

orange cake. 
Ten eggs, one pound of sugar, half pound of 
flour, the juice of one-half and grated rind of one 
whole lemon. Bake in jelly cake pans and let it 
cool before spreading the icing. This quantity will 
make two cakes, four layers each. 

Icing, 
One pound of pulverized sugar, the whites of two 
eggs, the grated rind and juice of one large orange, 
and the juice of half a lemon. Spread between each 
layer when cool. — MRS. A. L. F. 

ROBERT LEE JELLY CAKE. 

10 eggs. 

1 pound of butter. 

1 pound of sugar. 

| pound of flour. 

i teacupful of lemon juice. 

Icing, 
Whites of four eggs, one pound of sugar, the rind 



132 HOUSEKEEPERS COMPANION. 

of one orange and lemon, the juice of one large 
lemon (or two small ones), and the juice of the 
orange. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, then add 
gradually the sugar, lastly the rind and juice of the 
orange and lemon. Let them cool thoroughly before 
putting on the icing. It makes a delicious cake. — 

MRS. E. F. G. 

R. E. LEE CAKE. 

Fifteen eggs, their weight in sugar, the weight of 
seven in flour and the juice of two lemons. Make 
exactly like sponge cake. Bake in layers. 

Filling. 
To half a pound of sugar add the juice of five 
oranges and the grated rind of two, and the juice of 
four lemons. Beat well together and spread on the 
cake when cold, placing one la} r er on another. This 
will make two large cakes. — MRS. A. J. L. 

LEMON BUTTER CAKE. 

8 eggs. 

3| cupfuls of sugar. 
4£ cupfuls of flour. 
H cupfuls of butter. 

1 cupful of sweet milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls of yeast powder. 
Bake in jelly- cake tins. 

Filling. 

The yolks of three eggs, three-quarters of a pound 

of sugar, half pound of butter and three lemons. 

Grate the rind and add the juice to the sugar and 

butter. Put on and boil till it thickens. When the 



LAYEB FRUIT CAKES. 133 

layers are cool spread the filling between. — mrs. 

DR. J. T. W. 



LEMON JELLY CAKE. 

i pound of sugar, 
i pound of flour. 
£ pound of butter. 
5 eggs. 

1 small teaspoonf ul of soda. 
1£ teaspoonfuls of cream tartar. 
1 teacupful of milk. 
Bake in layers. 

Jelly. 
Juice and rind of two lemons and one teacupful of 
sugar. Stir until lemon and sugar are dissolved, and 
add three eggs well beaten. Put in a vessel in a pot 
of boiling water, stir until it thickens. When cool, 
spread between the layers. Sprinkle the top with 
pulverized sugar. — mrs. dr. j. t. w. 

POUND CAKE. 

1 pound of butter. 

1 pound of flour. 

1 pound of sugar. 

1 dozen eggs. 
Cream butter and flour well together. Beat the 
eggs whites and yolks separately. Put the sugar 
into the yolks, then add to that the whites whipped 
stiff. Pour gradually the sugar and eggs into the 
butter and flour which has been previously flavored. — 

MRS. E. F. G. 



134 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

POUND CAKE. 
Use the quantities same as above. Beat whites 
and yolks separately. Mix butter and sugar. Then 
add to it (1) yolks, (2) whites, (3) flour. Lemon 
juice flavors it very nicely. — MRS. L. r. N. 

POUND CAKE. 

1 pound of flour. 
1 pound of sugar. 
I pound of butter. 
10 eggs. 

1 wineglass of brandy. 
Bake in a moderate oven. — mrs. v. c. p. 

WHITE POUND CAKE. 

1 pound of sugar. 

1 pound of flour. 

i pound of butter. 

1 teaspoonful of baking powder (sifted with 

the flour). 
Whites of 16 eggs. 
Bake in a cool oven, with gradual increase of 
heat. — mrs. w. h. b. c. 

LADY CAKE. 

1 pound of pulverized sugar. 

| pounds of butter. 

I pounds of flour. 

Whites of 18 eggs. 
Cream the butter and sugar. Add the flour and 
whipped egg alternately, a little at a time. Flavor 
with rose-water and almond. Bake as pound cake. — ■ 
MRS. v. c. P. 



CAKES. 135 

WHITE CAKE. 

1 cupful of butter. 

1 cupful of milk. 

2 cupfuls of sugar. 
2 cupfuls of flour. 

1 cupful corn-starch (dissolved in the milk). 

1 teaspoonf ul yeast-powder. 
Whites of 8 eggs. 

Flavor with lemon, vanilla or almond. Cream the 
butter and sugar together. Beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth, then stir them into the sugar and 
butter. Then add the flour and yeast-powder. 
Lastly, add the corn-starch and milk.- — MRS. G. h. G. 

PEARL CAKE. 

2 cupfuls of sugar. 

2 cupfuls of flour. 
1 cupful of butter. 
1 cupful milk. 

1 cupful corn-starch. 

3 teaspoonfuls yeast-powder. 
Whites of 6 eggs. — mes. dr. e. w. r. 

ANGEL CAKE. 

One goblet of flour, one and one-half goblets of 
fine granulated sugar, whites of one dozen eggs, one 
teaspoonful of cream-tartar. Sift the flour three 
times. Add the cream-tartar and sift again. Sift 
the sugar three times. Beat the eggs very stiff. 
Sift the sugar in them. Sift the flour in. Flavor 
with two teaspoonfuls of vanilla. Bake in a pan that 
has never been greased. Bake forty minutes in a 
c|uick oven. When done, turn the pan upside down 



136 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

until cold, before removing the cake. If the stem in 
the pan is not long enough to lift the edge from the 
table, slip something under the sides to allow a 
draught under the cake. — MRS. v. c. p. 



CUP CAKE. 

7 eggs (leaving out the yolks of four). 
3 cupf uls of flour (sifted). 
2 cupf uls of sugar. 
1 cupful of butter. 

1 cupful of sweet milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls of Royal baking powder (sifted 

in the flour). — mrs. v. c. p. 

CUP CAKE. 
5 eggs. 

2 cupfuls of sugar. 
1 cupful of butter. 
1 cupful of milk. 
5 (light) cupfuls of flour. 
1 lemon. — mrs. a. j. l. 



BEST OF ALL CAKE. 

6 eggs. 

1 pound of sugar. 
4 cupfuls of flour. 
1 cupful of sour milk 
1 cupful of butter. 

1 tablespoonful of soda. 

2 tablespoonfuls of cream tartar. 
Flavor with lemon. — Miss s. A. L. 



CAKES. 137 

FEATHER CAKE. 

6 eggs. 

3 cupfuls of sugar. , 
5 cupfuls of flour (sifted). 

I cupful of butter. 

II cupfuls of sweet milk. 

4 teaspoonfuls yeast-powder. 

Sift the yeast-powder with the flour. Beat the 
yolks and whites separately. Beat the yolks, add a 
little sugar at a time till all is in. To these add the 
butter, which has been warmed sufficiently to be 
easily beaten in (taking care not to oil it,) add milk 
last. This quantity will fill a pound pan. Flavor 
with lemon. — mrs. de. j. t. w. 

ONE, TWO, THREE, FOUR CAKE. 

1 cupful of butter. 

1 cupful of milk. 

2 cupfuls of sugar. v 

3 cupfuls of flour. 

4 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful yeast-powder. 
Flavor to taste. — mrs. s. h. l. g. 

DELICIOUS CAKE. 

3 eggs. 

3 cupfuls of flour. 

2 cupfuls of sugar. j 
1 cupful of buttermilk or sour milk. 

1 cupful of butter. 
Use soda enough to make the milk sweet. Flavor 
to taste. Bake in loaf, layers, or puff tins. — miss 

M. G. 



138 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

One pound of sugar, half pound of flour, ten eggs 
and the juice of a lemon. Beat the yolks of the eggs 
well, then add the sugar. After it is well beaten, 
stir in the whites. Last of all add the flour. Stir, 
very gently and bake immediately. — MRS. A. L. F. 
and Mrs. w. r. h. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

1 pound of eggs. 
i pound of flour. 
14 ounces of sugar. 
Juice of 1 lemom. 

Beat whites and yolks separately. Put the sugar 
to the yolks, then add the whites and lastly the 
flour. Stir the flour in, but do not beat it. — MRS. 

E. F. A. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Ten eggs, one pound of sugar and ten ounces of 
flour (or as many ounces of flour as eggs). Entirely 
satisfactory. — MRS. E. F. n. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

2 cupfuls of sugar. 

2 cupfuls of flour. . } 

I cupful of warm water. 

6 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful yeast-powder. 
Bake thin and break when served. This makes 
nice pudding served with wine sauce and fruit pre- 
serves. The whites and yolks to be beaten sepa- 
rately. — MRS. A. S. K. 



CAKES. 139 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Eight eggs, two cupfuls of sugar, two cupfuls of 
flour, juice of two lemons. — MRS. u. b. q. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

4 cupfuls sugar. 

4 cupfuls flour. 

1 cupful cold water. 

8 eggs. 

4 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Beat yolks and sugar together, add the water, the 
whites and the flour. Put the baking powder in the 
flour. Flavor with the juice of a lemon. — MRS. s. J. 

GOLD CAKE. 
1 cupful of sugar. 
i cupful of butter. 
£ cupful of milk. 
If cupfuls of flour. 

The yolks of 3 eggs and 1 whole egg* 
I teaspoonful of soda. 

1 teaspoonful of cream tartar. 

Mix the butter and sugar together and add the 
eggs, milk, flavoring, and flour in the order named. 
A white frosting is good with this cake. — miss c. 

SPICE CAKE. 

6 eggs — the whites of 2, yolks of 6. 

2 cupfuls pulverized sugar. 

3 cupfuls sifted flour. 

1 cupful of milk (sweet). 

1 cupful butter. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar mixed in the flour. 
1 teaspoonful soda mixed in a little milk. 



140 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

3 teaspoonfuls cinnamon. 

2 teaspoonfuls cloves. 

1 teaspoonfnl allspice. 
Cream the butter and sugar together, then add the 
yolks, then the whites, then add the milk except 
about a tablespoon ful, then the cream tartar and 
flour and spices, then a tablespoonful of milk mixed. 
with the soda. If sour milk is more convenient, 
leave out the cream tartar and use soda alo/ie. 

For the icing use the whites of the four eggs, either 
for plain or cocoanut icing. The plain flavored with 
vanilla is very nice. — MRS. E. w. B. 

SPICE CAKE. 

Not quite 1 pint of sugar. 
1 pint of flour. 
i cupful of butter. 

1 cupful of milk. 

4 eggs (leave out the whites of two for icing). 

2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon. 
2 teaspoonfuls allspice. 

2 teaspoonfuls cloves. 

2 large teaspoonfuls baking powder. — MISS S. 
A. L. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

White Part. 
Whites of 8 eggs. 

3 cupfuls white sugar. 
1 cupful butter. 

5 cupfuls flour into which has been sifted the 

yeast-powder. 
4: teaspoonfuls yeast-powder. 



CAKES. 141 

1 cupful sweet milk. 
Beat the white of the eggs thoroughly before add- 
ing the sugar and butter. Add the milk last and 
flavor with lemon. 

Dark Part. 
Yolks of 8 eggs and 1 whole egg. 

3 cupfuls brown sugar. 

1 cupful molasses. ; 

1 cupful butter. 

4 cupfuls flour, into which has been sifted the 

3^east-powder. 
3 teaspoonfuls yeast-powder. 
1 cupful sweet milk. • 
1 tablespoonful ground cinnamon. 
1 tablespoonful cloves. 
1 tablespoonful nutmeg. 
This quantity will make two loaves of cake. Put 
in alternate layers of the dark and white till the pail 
is full, beginning and ending with the dark part. — 

MBS. DR. J. T. W. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

White Part. 

1 cupful butter. 
3 cupfuls sugar. 

5 cupfuls flour. 

1 cupful new milk. 

i teaspoonful soda. -• 

Whites of 8 eggs. 

Bark Part, 

1 cupful of butter. 

2 cupfuls of brown sugar. 



142 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

1 cupful of molasses. 
1 cupful of sour milk. 
4 cupfuls of Hour. 
i teaspoonf ul soda. 
1 whole egg. 
Yolks of 8 eggs. 
All kinds of spices. 
Put a layer of dark at the bottom, then wuite, and 
so on. — MRS. a. j. L. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

White Part. 
\ cupful of butter. 
\\ cupfuls of sugar. 
2£ cupfuls of flour. 
^ cupful of sweet milk. 
Whites of 4 eggs well beaten. 
1 teaspoonful of baking powder. 
Flavor with lemon. 

Spiced or Dark Part. 

J cupful of butter. 

1 cupful of brown sugar. 
i cupful of molasses. 

2 cupfuls of flour. 
i cupful of milk. 

i teaspoonful of soda. 

£ teaspoonful of cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves, all- 
spice, each. 

Yolks of 4 eggs. 
Fill the pan with alternate layers of the white and 
spiced cake. This will make a large loaf. — MRS. T. 
C. P. 



LATER CAKES. 143 

CHOCOLATE MARBLE CAKE. 

Eight eggs, one pound of flour, one pound Ox sugar, 
half pound of butter, one teaspoonful of soda, two 
teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, one cupful of cream. 

Take half of the batter and add to it half a cake of 
grated chocolate. Then put in a tin as any other 
marble cake. Season with vanilla. — mrs. t. e. c. c. 



LAYER CAKES. 

CHOCOLATE cake. 

1 cupful white sugar. 
\ cupful butter. 

\ cupful sweet milk. 

2 cupfuls flour. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

2 eggs. 

Grate half a pound or one cake of Baker's choco- 
late, and mix it with three-quarters of a cupful of 
milk, one cupful of sugar and the yelk of one egg. 
Boil this until smooth, add two teaspoonfuls of vanilla, 
and when it is cool pour it into the cake dough. The 
batter, which has been beaten, bake in jelly-cake pans. 
Spread white icing between and on top. It is de- 
licious. — MRS. E. l. c. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

5 eggs. 

3 cupfuls sugar. 
4J cupfuls flour. 

1 cupful of butter. 



114 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

1 cupful of sweet milk. 
\ teaspoonful of soda. 

1 teaspoonful of cream-tartar. 

Bake in jelly-cake tins, and while hot spread the 
following mixture between and over top and sides : 
one-third of a cake of Baker's chocolate (large size) 
grated ; four cupfuls of brown sugar, one cupful of 
sweet milk ; one tablespoonf ul of flour, thoroughly 
mixed with the chocolate while dry ; one tablespoon- 
ful of butter and two of water. Mix all together 
and cook until it will harden when dropped into cold 
water. When done stir in a tablespoonf ul of vanilla 
spread while very hot over the cake. — MRS. prof. 
B. P. 

MY LADY'S CAKE. 

2 cupfuls powdered sugar, ) , , ,, 

1 „ , * . \ creamed together. 

i cupful of butter, ) 

Whites of 5 eggs (whipped stiff). 

1 cupful of milk. 

3 cupfuls of flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Flavor with vanilla and bake in jelly-cake tins. 

Filling. 

Half cake of Baker's chocolate, two cupfuls 
powdered sugar, half cupful of hot water, the whites 
of two eggs well whipped. Put on the sugar and 
water and boil well, then pour it over the whipped 
eggs and then add the chocolate, which must be 
previously steamed. — miss s. a. l. 



LATER CAKES. 145 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

2 cupfuls of sugar. 
1 cupful of butter. 

1 cupful of milk. 
3^ cupfuls of flour. 

Yolks of 5 eggs, whites of 2 eggs. 
£ teaspoouful cream-tartar (sifted in the flour.) 
Bake in jelly cake tins. 

Filling. 

Cut up three squares of Baker's chocolate, put it 
in a cup and let it dissolve near the lire. Put in a 
sauce-pan one and one-half cupfuls of sugar, barely 
cover with water and let it come to a boil and boil a 
few minutes or until it ropes. Whip to a stiff froth 
the whites of three eggs, and gradually pour to them 
the boiled sugar (while hot), whipping all the time. 
After adding the sugar, add the chocolate, and it is 
ready to spread on the cake. Flavor with vanilla. 
A very nice cake is made by leaving off the choco- 
late. — MRS. JUDGE J. E. H. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

7 eggs, leaving out yolks of 4. 
i cupful butter. 

2 cupfuls sugar. 

3 cupfuls flour. 

1 cupful milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder (sifted in the 

flour). 
Bake in jelly-cake tins. 



146 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

Filling for Same. 

Dissolve half cake of Baker's chocolate in one tea- 
cupful of cream or milk. Stir in it one egg beaten 
light with as much sugar as you like. Boil till it 
thickens so that it will harden on cake. — miss 
m. G. 

CHOCOLATE FILLING FOR CAKE. 

I lb. grated chocolate. 

2£ lbs. brown sugar. 

1 cupful of milk. 

1 cupful of butter. 
Put it all together in a saucepan and cook twenty 
minutes. When nearly cool season with vanilla and 
spread between the layers. — MRS. M. A. p. 

CHOCOLATE ICING FOR CAKE. 

Dissolve half a cake of chocolate in half a teacupf ul 
of milk. Boil until it will stiffen in cold water, then 
pour into the whites of two eggs well beaten with 
two cupfuls of sugar. — MRS. U. B. Q. 

HARLEQUIN CAKE. 

1 cupful sugar. 

I cupful butter. 

\ cupful sweet milk. 

\\ cupfuls flour. 

\\ teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Whites of 4 eggs. 

Cream the butter and sugar together, then add the 

milk, then flour and baking powder sifted together 

twice, then the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff 

froth, and one teaspoonful of vanilla. Use half of 



CAKES. 147 

this for the white layer. Color the other half with 
cochineal for the pink layer. Prepare the cochineal 
by bruising a small teaspoonful, dissolving it in two 
tablespoonfuls of boiling water, straining through a 
fine cloth and then mix one and one half teaspoon- 
f uls with the batter. 

For the other two layers : 
1 cupful sugar. 

1 cupful butter. 
i cupful milk. 
1J cupful flour* 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Yolks of 4 eggs. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the eggs, milk, 
then the juice and grated rind of half a lemon, then 
the flour and baking powder sifted together as before. 
Use half of this mixture for a yellow layer and color 
the remainder by mixing with it one ounce of choco- 
late melted. After baking put the layers together 
with soft frosting or jelly as follows r brown at the 
bottom, then yellow, then white, and lastly the pink. 

— MBS. W. B. P. 

CABAMEL CAKE. 

One pound of brown sugar, half cupful of cream, 
a piece of butter the size of an egg. Boil twenty 
minutes. Spread this between any kind of cake pre- 
ferred, baked in layers. Flavor with vanilla. Sponge 
cake is very nice. — mbs. t. e. c. c. 

APPLE JELLY CAKE. 

Bake as for any other layer cake. For filling take 
seven apples,. two eggs, two lemons, sugar to taste- 



148 HO USEKEEPER' S CO MP A XIO.Y. 

Stew until smooth and the apples are well done. — 
MRS. v. c. r. 

BOILED ICING FOE CAKE. 

Half pint of water, one pound of pulverized sugar. 

Boil until it thickens and hangs in strings from the 

spoon. Pour hot, on the well-beaten whites of four 

eggs, very gradually, beating hard all the time until 

cold. Then apply immediately to the cake. — MRS. 

V. C. P. 

ICING. 

Whites of four eggs, one pound of powdered white 
sugar, lemon, vanilla or other flavoring. Break the 
whites into a broad, clean, cool dish. Throw a small 
handful of sugar upon them and begin whipping it 
in with long, even strokes of the beater. A few 
minutes later, throw in more sugar and keep adding it 
at intervals until it is all used up. Beat perseveringly 
with a regular sweeping movement of the whisk until 
the icing is of a smooth, fine and firm texture. Half 
an hour's beating should be sufficient if done well. 
If not stiff enough put in more sugar. A little 
practice will teach you, when your end is gained. If 
you flavor with lemon-juice, allow in measuring your 
sugar for the additional liquid. Lemon-juice or a 
little tartaric acid, whitens the icing. Use at lenst 
one-quarter of a pound of sugar for each egg. Use 
a broad bladed knife, dipped in cold water, for ap- 
plying the icing. — m. h. 

ICE CREAM CAKE. 
2 cups of sugar. 
2 cups of flour. 



LAYER CAKES. 149 

1 cup of butter. 

1 cup of corn-starch. 

1 cup of milk. 
Whites of 8 eggs. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Flavor with vanilla. 

Icing. 
Pour a gill of boiling water over two cups of sugar, 
and let it boil until a little stiff. Whip the whites of 
two eggs to a stiff froth and pour the boiling syrup 
over them very gradually and whip until it is a little 
cool. Then spread between the layers and on top 
and on the sides. Do not stir the sugar while it 
is on the stove. Flavor with vanilla.— mrs. s. f. r. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

3 cups of sugar, 
.3J cups of flour. 
1 cup of milk. 

1 cup of butter. 
Whites of 10 eggs. 
3 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 
Icing. 
Dissolve one pound of white sugar in a gill of cold 
water. Boil until it ropes from the spoon. Then 
pour on the whites of three eggs well beaten. Beat 

Until Stiff. — MRS. DR. E. W. R. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

1 pound of flour. 
1 pound of sugar. 
i pound of butter. 



150 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

6 eggs. 

1 cupful of milk. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. 

2 teaspoonfuls of cream-tartar (mixed with 

flour). 
1 teaspoonful of lemon. 
Bake in jelly-pans, four in number. 

Icing. 
One large spoonful of gelatine dissolved in a small 
teacupful of boiling water. Stir in two pounds of 
pulverized sugar. Flavor with vanilla. When the 
cakes are done, frost the tops and sides. Have a very 
large spoonful of gelatine. This makes a nice cake, 
and the icing will do for any cake. — MRS. T. E. c. c. 

DELICIOUS FILLING FOR CAKE. 

Whip one pint of rich cream. Beat the whites 

of two eggs to a stiff froth, then beat together. Add 

one cup of white sugar and the yolks of the eggs well 

beaten. Flavor to suit the taste. Beat one hour. — 

MRS. E. w. B. 

CREAM CAKE. 

2 cupfuls powdered sugar. 
| cupful butter. 

i cupful milk. 

3 cupfuls flour. 

i teaspoonful soda. 

1 teaspoonful cream-tartar. 

4 eggs. 

Bake in layers as for jelly-cake, and spread between 
them the following mixture : 

Half pint of milk, half cupful sugar, one egg, two 



LAYER CAKES. 151 

small teaspoonfuls corn-starch, one teaspoonful va- 
nilla. Heat the milk to boiling, and stir in the corn- 
starch wet with a little cold milk. Take out a little 
and mix gradually with the beaten egg and sugar. 
Return to the rest of the custard and boil, stirring 
constantly until quite thick. Let it cool before you 
season and spread on cake. Season the icing also 
with vanilla. — MRS. w. R. H. 

CUSTARD CAKE. 

2 cupfuls of sugar. 
\ cupful of butter. 

7 eggs (leaving out four yolks). 

3 cupf als .of flour. 

1 cupful of milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 
Bake in shallow pans. 

Filling. 

Take one quart of milk, let it come to a boil, 
sweeten it. Take the four yolks, beat well and mix 
three tablespoonfuls of corn-starch with a little of 
the milk cold, and then stir them gradually into the 
boiling milk and continue to stir until done. Add 
a piece of butter the size of a walnut, flavor with 
vanilla, and put between the cakes, —miss m. g. 

MOLASSES POUND CAKE. 
1J pounds of flour. 
£ pound of butter. 
\ pound of sugar. 

1 pint of molasses. 
i pint of milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls of ginger. 



152 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. 
5 eggs. 

Beat the butter to a cream, then add the sugar. 
Beat the eggs until light, add them to the butter and 
sugar ; beat well. Dissolve the soda in a tablespoon- 
ful of boiling water, add it to the molasses, mix well 
and stir it into the other mixture ; add to it the milk 
and flour. Beat all until smooth ; then add the spice, 
mix well, and pour into a well-greased tin. Bake in 
a moderate o-ven. — mrs. w. h. b. c. 

GINGER POUND CAKE. 

2 cupfuls of sugar. 
1 cupful of butter. 

1 cupful of molasses. 
5 cupfuls of flour. 

3 eggs. 

1 pint of new milk. 
1 tablespoon ful of ginger. 
1 tablespoon ful of cinnamon. 
1 teaspoonful of soda. — G. 

MOLASSES CAKE. 

li cupfuls of sugar, 
li cupfuls of butter. 
li cupfuls of molasses. 

4 cupfuls of flour. 
4 eggs. 

Beat the eggs light, add the sugar and butter, mix 
well together. Then stir in the molasses well and 
add two tablespoonfuls of ginger, one teacupful of 
sour cream with one teaspoonful of soda in it. Add 
it just before baking, stirring it well. — MRS. E. J. s. 



CAKES. 153 

GINGER CUP CAKE. 

1 (light) quart of flour. 

3 eggs (well beaten). 

1 (large) teacupful of sugar. 

1 (large) teacupful of molasses. 

i teaspoonful of soda (dissolved in milk). 

£ teacupful of milk. 

1 teacupful of butter (use part lard if more con- 
venient). 

1 teaspoonful of ginger. 

1 teaspoonful allspice. 

£ teaspoonful of cinnamon. 
Mix all ingredients and lastly the flour. The bat- 
ter should be then stiff enough for the spoon to 
stand in. — mrs. judge j. e. h. 

YANKEE PUDDING. 

3 eggs. 

3 cupfuls of flour. 
1 cupful of butter. 
1 cupful of molasses. 
1 cupful of sugar. 
1 cupful of milk. 
1 teaspoonful bread-soda. 
Flavor with ginger, nutmeg and cloves, — mrs. 

A. L. F. 

BLACK CAKE. 

1 qt. of flour. 
1 pt. of sugar. 
1 pt. of molasses. 
J lb. of butter. 



154 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

2 tablespoonfuls of lard. 

1 teaspoonful (small) of soda (dissolved in a 

little water). 

Ginger and spices to your taste. — MRS. judgb 

j. E. H. 

COOKIES. 

1 cupful butter. 

2 cupfuls sugar. 

5 cupfuls flour. 

3 eggs. 

6 teaspoonfuls milk. 

1 (small) teaspoonful soda. 
Stir butter and sugar together ; then add eggs and 
a little cinnamon or nutmeg ; lastly the flour. Roll 
out and bake in a quick oven. — MRS. w. H. B. c. 

COOKIES. 

1 cupful butter. 
1 cupful sugar. 

1 e gg- 

1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

J teaspoonful of soda (dissolved in a little hot 
water). 
Cut in shapes, and bake in a quick oven. — MRS. 

H. P. 

SPICE CAKES. 

3 eggs. 

2 cupfuls light brown sugar. 
1 cupful butter. 

I teaspoonful of soda (dissolved in two table- 
spoonfuls boiling water). 
1 lb. of flour. 
Flavor with ginger, nutmeg and cloves. Roll out 
thin and bake in a quick oven. — MRS. A. L. F. 



CAKES. 155 

APEAS. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, half-pint 
of sweet cream, flour enough to roll. Flavor to taste. 
Roll thin. — MRS. M. o. 

MACAROONS. 

One pound sugar, three-quarters of a pound of but- 
ter, yolks of four eggs, one teacupful of sour cream, 
flour enough to roll. Roll in sugar ; roll thin. Flavor 
to taste. — MRS. M. o. 

JUMBLES. 

4 eggs. 

i lb. of flour. 

1 lb. of sugar. 

i lb. of butter (or £ lb. butter and i lb. lard). 

2 teaspoonfuls of yeast-powder, 
i nutmeg (grated). 

Roll thin. — MRS. T. c. P. 

CRULLERS. 

2 lbs. of flour. 

I lb. of sugar. 

i lb. of butter. 

6 eggs. 
Flavor with nutmeg, mix all together and roll the 
dough thin ; then cut into shapes (not too large) and 
cook them in boiling lard. The more lard there is, 
the less they will absorb. Sprinkle them with sugar 
and a little grated nutmeg immediately after taking 
them from the pan. — MRS. E. F. G. 

CRULLERS. 

Six eggs, one pound of sugar, half pound of butter, 



156 HOUSEKEEPERS COMPANION. 

flour enough to roll. Cut in strips to twist and plait. 
Boil in lard. — mrs. m. a. w. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One cupful of buttermilk, one teaspoonful of soda, 
two eggs, one and one-half cupfuls of sugar, one nut- 
meg and a little salt. Make out in little balls, size 
of hickory nuts. Fry in hot lard ; when brown take 
them out and roll them in pulverized sugar. — MRS. 

DR. E. W. R. 

TRAFALGAR CAKES. 

One pound of flour, six ounces of sugar. Beat six 
ounces of butter to a cream and stir in half pound of 
currants, well washed and dried, and three eggs well 
beaten. Then add the flour and sugar and beat for 
some time. Flour your tins, drop batter from a table- 
spoon and bake quickly. — mrs. h. p. 

MACAROONS. 

The whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 
half-pound of powdered sugar, half-pound of desic- 
ated cocoanut, half-pint of rolled and sifted crackers, 
one teaspoonful extract of bitter almonds. Drop 
them on buttered paper in a dripping-pan and bake a 
light brown. — mrs. e. w. b. 

COCOANUT PYRAMIDS. 

One pound grated cocoanut, three-quarters of a 
pound of pulverized sugar, the beaten white of one 
egg. Add the sugar to the egg, then the cocoanut. 
Make in balls in the palm of the hand. Shape in a 
wine glass. Grease the baking-pan, bake in a mod- 
erate oven uutil brown on the top. This makes two 
dozen. — mrs. v. c. p. 



CAKES. 157 

CHOCOLATE CAKES. 

Half pound of grated chocolate, one pound of sugar, 
four eggs, four tablespoonfuls of flour. Flavor with 
vanilla. Drop from the spoon on greased paper, bake 
in a tolerably slow oven. — MRS. v. c. p. 

SAND CAKES. 

Three-quarters of a pound of butter, one pound of 
sugar, yolks of five eggs, a little cinnamon. Keep 
cool, use flour enough to roll out, mix quickly. Cut 
in round cakes, wet each cake with the white of an 
egg beaten. Sprinkle over them cinnamon and sugar 
mixed together. Bake quickly. — MRS. V. C. P. 

SUGAR CAKES WITHOUT EGGS. 

Three pounds of flour, two pounds of sugar, one 
pound of butter, one grated nutmeg. Mix well 
together ; wet up with milk until soft enough to roll. 
Cut in shapes. — MRS. v. C. P. 

GINGER COOKIES. 

1 cupful of brown sugar. 
1 cupful of butter. 
1 cupful of molasses. 

li teaspoonfuls soda (dissolved in three table- 
spoonfuls of hot water). 
Flour enough to make stiff enough to pat out 
with your hand. Ginger to taste.— MRS. T. C. P. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

1 cupful sugar. 

2 cupfuls molasses. 
1 cupful of lard. 



158 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

1 teaspoonf ul soda(dissolved in one tablespoonful 

warm water. 
3 tablespoonfuls of ginger. 
1 teaspoon ful of cinnamon. 
Flour enough to make moderately stiff dough. 
Roll very thin. — MRS. A. s. K. 

MOLASSES JUMBLES. 

Beat three-quarters of a pound of light brown 
sugar, the same of butter and three eggs together. 
Stir in half-pint of molasses and enough flour to make 
a soft dough. Roll out and bake. Ginger to taste. — 
MRS. E. J. s. 

SOFT GINGER CAKES. 

Warm one pint of molasses and a small half-pint 
of lard. Stir in one tablespoonful of soda, half-pint of 
milk, flour enough to make a batter that will drop off 
of a spoon, two tablespoonfuls of ginger. Set in a 
cool place until next day. Then roll out and cut into 
cakes. Before baking, wash them over with egg and 
sugar beaten together. — mrs. v. c. p. 

ginger bread (without eggs). 

One cup of molasses, five cups sifted flour, one cup 
of boiling water (in which two teaspoonf uls of soda is 
dissolved), one cup of butter, two tablespoonfuls of 
ginger, one of cinnamon, one cup of sugar. Cream 
butter and sugar together. When light, add the water 
and spices. — MRS. V. C. P. 



CREAMS, JELLIES, CANDIES, ETC. 159 

CREAMS, JELLIES, CANDIES, ETC. 

ICE-CREAM. 

Two quarts of milk (cream if you have it), three 
tablespoonf uls corn-starch, whites of eight eggs beaten 
very light. Sweeten to taste. Boil the milk, thicken 
it with the corn-starch, add the sugar, pour the whole 
upon the eggs. Flavor with vanilla or lemon, and 
freeze. — MRS. M. o. 

ICE-CREAM. 

Dissolve five teaspoonfuls Duryea's corn-starch in 
one teacupful of milk. Add to it the whites of three 
eggs and the yolk of one (well beaten). Sweeten 
with three-quarters of a pound of good granulated 
sugar, half a gallon of new milk, and boil. As soon as 
it begins to boil, pour it, in small quantities, over the 
mixture of eggs and starch, till all the milk is poured 
from the kettle. Then pour in the kettle and stir a 
few minutes. After it cools, add one quart of rich 
sweet cream. Season with vanilla and freeze.— miss 
M. G. 

FROZEN CUSTARD. 

To each quart of milk, allow the yolks of five eggs. 
Boil the milk, add the eggs and a large cup of sugar, 
stirring all the time until thick and smooth. If boiled 
too long it will curdle. When cold, season very 
highly and make very sweet, as freezing destroys 
much of both. Beat the whites of the eggs stiff, and 
as it begins to freeze, stir them in the custard. Pack 
tight in plenty of salt and crushed ice, and keep the 
freezer in motion until it is quite stiff. Now and then 



160 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

open the freezer and loosen the frozen custard from 
the sides. When stiff, pack down until needed. 

— MRS. V. C. P. 

FROZEN CUSTARD. 

Sweeten one gallon of new milk with one pound of 
sugar, and let it come to a boil. Whip up one dozen 
eggs and pour into them three tablespoon fuls of 
Duryea's corn-starch dissolved in a small quantity of 
milk. Pour the boiling milk gradually over the mix- 
ture of eggs and starch. Pour back into the kettle 
and stir till it begins to thicken. Flavor with vanilla 
and freeze. If fresh lemon is used for flavoring, more 
sugar will be needed. — miss m. g. 

STRAWBERRY CREAM. 

Four quarts thick sweet cream, four quarts straw- 
berries. The berries must be mashed or bruised, 
with a teacup of granulated sugar to each quart of 
berries. After standing several hours, strain through 
a thin coarse cloth. Put four teacups of white 
sugar to the cream and then add the juice of the 
berries. Whip or froth the cream with a patent egg- 
beater or common egg-beater. Pour two-thirds of 
the cream into the freezer, reserving the rest to pour 
in after it begins to freeze. Raspberry cream may be 
made the same way. — MRS. v. c. P. 

PISTACHE ICE-CREAM. 
This cream is made by adding about two ounces of 
blanched pistache nuts to one quart of any good ice- 
cream. The nuts are shelled, boiling water is poured 
over the kernels, and the skins then rubbed off with 
a wet towel. Then the nuts are puunded to a smooth 



CREAMS, JELLIES, CANDIES, ETC. 161 

paste in a mortar, a few drops of rose-water being 
added to prevent the oiling of the nuts, which are 
then colored with spinach juice (a harmless vegetable 
coloring sold by dealers in confectioners' supplies). 
The cream is frozen like any other variety. — MRS. 

V. C. P. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM. 

Six ounces of chocolate, six eggs, half-gallon of 
milk, suear to taste. Dissolve the chocolate in one 
pint of the milk. Whip the eggs, and pour over them 
the dissolved chocolate and the balance of the milk 
(three pints) boiling hot. Pour the mixture into the 
kettle and put on the fire to thicken. When cool, 
add one quart rich cream and freeze. — MISS M. G. 

NESSELRODE PUDDING. 

- 1 pint of chestnuts. 
1 pint of sugar. 
1 pint of boiling water. 
1 lb. of French candied fruit (mixed). 
1 pint of almonds. 
1 pint of cream. 
1 pineapple or one pint of canned pineapple. 

Shell the chestnuts, take off the brown skin, put 
them in a saucepan, cover with boiling water, and 
boil twenty minutes, then press them through a 
colander. Shell, blanch, and pound the almonds. 
Cut the fruit into small pieces. Put the water and 
sugar on to boil ; let it boil fifteen minutes. Beat 
the yolks of the eggs till very light, add them to the 
boiling syrup, stir over the fire until it boils, then 
take it off and beat with a wire spoon until cold. 



162 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

Now add the fruit, cream, almonds, chesnuts, and a 
tablespoonful of vanilla, and four tablespoonfuls of 
sherry. Mix all well together, turn into a freezer 
and freeze. After it is frozen, drain off the water, 
add more salt and ice, cover the freezer with a piece 
of carpet and stand away for several hours to ripen.— 

MRS. W. H. B. C. 

PINEAPPLE ICE-CREAM. 
Whip two quarts rich sweet cream to a froth with 
two teacups powdered white sugar. Use a patent 
egg-whip with a wheel, if convenient, if not use the 
common egg-whip. Grate two ripe pineapples, and 
add to them two teacups white sugar. When well 
mixed, stir into the cream. Pour into the freezer, re- 
serving one-fourth. When it begins to freeze it will 
sink ; then beat in the remainder with a strong iron 
spoon. Beat every time the freezer is opened to cut 
down the cream from the sides. Never cook fruit of 
any sort to make cream. — MRS. s. L. G. 

PINEAPPLE ICE. 

Dissolve one box of gelatine in three quarts of 
water. Beat two cans (pound cans) of pineapple 
through a colander with a wooden pestle, add the 
juice of two lemons and two oranges. Sweeten to 
taste and freeze. Beat the whites of six eggs and 
stir in when it begins to freeze. — MRS. u. B. Q. 

PLTJMBIERE. 

Make a rich custard, and flavor it when cool with 
wine and extract of lemon. When half frozen, add 
blanched almonds, chopped citron, brandy peaches 
cut up, and any other branched or crystallized fruit. 



CREAMS, JELLIES, CANDIES, ETC. 163 

Make the freezer half full of custard, and fill with 

fruit. — MRS. JUDGE J. E. H. 

PLUMBIERE. 

Boil one pint of milk, add the yolk of one and the 
beaten whites of four eggs. Make very sweet, add 
two teaspoonfuls of gelatine, soaked one hour in a 
very little water. When cold add one pint of cream, 
one glass of wine, one ounce of citron, one of con- 
served ginger, one of conserved cherries, one of pine- 
apple. If cherries cannot be bad, use chopped raisins. 
(Wit all the fruit in small pieces. One wine-glass of 
brandy or two cordial glasses of Mareschino cordial. 
Keep the fruit stirred through as it freezes. — MRS. 

v. c. P. 

WATER ICE. 

One gallon of water, three pounds of white sugar, 
the whites of ten eggs. Beat the eggs in as it freezes. 
If oranges are used, rub on lumps of sugar the rind 
of three, add the juice of nine and the juice of three 
lemons. If lemons are used, take the juice of one 
dozen. If pineapples, use one quart of the grated 
fruit, free of the stringy part. — MRS. V. c. P. 

FROZEN ORAXGES. 

Peel and slice the oranges. To each pound of 
orange, add three-quarters of a pound of sugar and 
half-pint of water. Freeze. — MRS. v. c. P. 

PEACH CREAM. 

Equal quantities of cream and ripe soft peaches 
well mashed and made very sweet. Freeze hard. — ■ 
MRS. v. c. p, 



164 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION". 

AN EXCELLENT DESSERT. 

One can or two dozen peaches, two cups of sugar, 
whites of three eggs beaten to a froth, one pint of 
cream. Cut the peaches fine. Stir all together well 
and freeze the whole into form. — MRS. A. J. L. 

JELLY. 

Soak one box of gelatine in one pint of cold water 
one hour. Pour on this three pints of boiling water. 
Add one and one-half pounds of sugar, one pint of 
wine, the juice of four lemons and rind of two. Let 
it boil ten or fifteen minutes and strain through 
Canton flannel. — MRS. dr. w. A. T. 

JELLY. 

To one of the shilling packages of Nelson's gelatine 
add one pint of cold water. After letting it stand 
an hour, add one and one-half pounds of loaf sugar, 
three pints of boiling water and one pint of light 
sherry wine. Put in a kettle and let it boil. After 
boiling, put in the lemon and strain through a jelly 
bag. — MISS M. G. 

JELLY WITHOUT BOILING. 

One and one-half ounces of gelatine, one pint of 
cold water, three pints of boiling water, one and 
three-quarters pounds of sugar, the juice of three 
and peel of two lemons. Pour the cold water on 
the gelatine, then pour on the boiling water, dissolve 
entirely. Add the sugar, the peel and juice of the 
lemons and when nearly cold the wine. — MRS. DR. 

W. A. T. 

JELLY WITHOUT BOILING. 

To one package of gelatine, add a pint of cold 
water, the juice of three lemons and the rind of one. 



CREAMS, JELLIES, CANDIES, ETC. 165 

Let it stand for an hour and then add three pints of 
boiling water, a pint of wine and two and one-quarter 
pounds of white sugar. A wine-glass of brandy will 
improve the flavor. Strain, pour into moulds and 
set in a cool place. — mrs. a. l. f. 

JELLY WITHOUT BOILING 
One box of gelatine, one and one-half pounds of 
sugar, juice of two lemons, two pints of boiling water, 
one pint of Madeira wine, one pint of cold water. Cov- 
er the gelatine with the cold water and let soak one 
hour, then add the sugar and boiling water. Stir until 
the sugar and gelatine are dissolved, then add the 
lemon-juice and wine. Unless the ingredients are per- 
fectly pure, strain through a flannel jelly-bag and 
stand away to harden.-*-MRS. w. H. B. c. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

Soak one box of gelatine in one pint of cold water, 
add the juice of three lemons, two and one-quarter 
pounds of loaf sugar, pour on three pints of boiling 
water, the rind of one and the juice of six oranges. 
Strain and set to cool. The rind of one orange 
rubbed on lumps of sugar will deepen the color. — ■ 

MRS. V. C. P. 

TAPIOCA OR SAGO JELLY. 

Soak three tablespoonfuls of tapioca or sago in 
one quart of water, four hours or all night. Put it 
on to boil in the same water. When clear, sweeten 
and season with lemon, vanilla, or wine and nutmeg. 
Put in moulds in a cold place. Eat with cream. 
Milk may be used instead of water to soak and boil 
it in. — MRS. V. c. P. 



166 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

TO CLARIFY STOCK FOR JELLY 

When the broth is quite cold, remove from it. all 
the fat which has risen to its surface. Break four 
eggs and put the whites and shells into a saucepan 
with four tablespoonfuls of cold water, and then 
pour the cold broth upon them. Set the saucepan 
over the fire and let its contents slowly reach the 
boiling point, stirring several times to loosen the egg 
from the bottom. As the broth boils the egg will har- 
den and rise to the surface in a thick scum. When 
the broth appears quite clear under the scum, pour it 
very gently into a folded towel laid in a colander, 
which must be set over a large bowl, and allow it to 
bun through the towel without squeezing it. When 
all the broth is run through the towel, remove the 
little fat which may remain in it by laying some 
pieces of soft white tea-paper, one by one, on its sur- 
face, and removing them when they have absorbed 
the fat. — miss c. 

FRUIT JELLY. 

Pare and slice six large oranges, and six bananas, 
and arrange in a jelly mould in layers. Make jelly of 
one box of gelatine, as for wine or lemon jelly and 
pour over them, when it is beginning to cool. This 
jelly should always be clarified and boiled, as the jelly 
is so much improved by being clear and brilliant. 

To make the fruit jelly perfect, it should be eaten 
with an ice-cream, made as follows: half gallon milk, 
one quart of cream, sugar and vanilla to taste. Freeze, 
and when beginning to stiffen stir in the whites of 
five eggs beaten light. — MRS. u. B. Q. 



CREAMS, JELLIES, CANDIES, ETC. 167 

BLANC-MANGE. 

Dissolve over the fire an ounce of sparkling gela- 
tine in a gill of water. Pour the melted gelatine in 
one quart of cream, add one-half pound of loaf sugar, 
boil fast for half an hoar in a porcelain kettle, then 
strain and add one quarter-pound of blanched almonds 
shaved fine. When cool add vanilla and wine. 
Eaten with whipped cream. — miss b. p. 

BLANC-MANGE. 

One ounce of gelatine, half pound of sugar, half 
gallon of sweet milk, vanilla. Boil milk, gelatine and 
sugar together twenty minutes. Flavor with vanilla, 
and let stand till congealed. Eat with new cream. 

MRS. W. H. B. C. 

BLANC-MANGE. 

One gallon of milk, one package of Nelson's gela- 
tine, one pound of sugar. Let it boil ten or fifteen 
minutes, stirring constantly. Take off the fire and 
flavor with vanilla. Stir it several times before it 
begins to congeal. — miss m. g. 

CUSTARD BLANC-MANGE. 

Make a custard with one quart of milk, four eggs, 
one teacupful of sugar. Stir into it while boiling 
half a box of gelatine, after it has soaked ten minutes 
Pour into moulds and serve cold with cream and 
wine. — MRS. E. F. N. 

CHOCOLATE BLANC-MANGE. 

Put one box of gelatine in a little water one hour. 
Warm one quart of milk, stir in the gelatine. Dis- 
solve on the fire one-fourth of a cake of Baker's choc- 
olate in one pint of milk ; when dissolved add to the 



168 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

gelatine. Make very sweet and flavor with vanilla. 
Let it come to a boil, pour into moulds and set to 
harden. I find a little hot water poured over the 
chocolate before adding the milk dissolves it better 
and sooner. Eat with chocolate cream. — MRS. v. 

C. P. 

IRISH MOSS. 

One handful of moss. Wash five times in cold 
water. Cover with water and set to soak one hour. 
Boil a few minutes in one quart of milk and two table- 
spoonfnls of sugar. Flavor with vanilla. Strain 
into moulds and set in a cool place — MRS. v. c. p. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Let a box of gelatine stand one hour in a pint of 
cold water. Then add five cupfuls of sugar, three 
pints of boiling water, the juice of four lemons, and 
the rind of the same. The latter must he taken out 
when the pudding is strained. Beat the whites of 
six eggs to a stiff froth, adding one cupful of sugar. 
Then beat all together (when the pudding begins to 
congeal) till it becomes a stiff froth. Make the six 
yolks into a custard with one quart of milk and six 
tablespoonfuls of sugar. Flavor with vanilla. — MRS. 

JUDGE J. E. H. 

LOLY POP. 

To one box of Cox's gelatine, pour one gill of 
warm water and half a pint of wine. Beat the whites 
of five eggs, stir in fourteen tablespoonfuls of sugar 
and one of vanilla. Then beat the yolks, add one 
quart of milk and the gelatine. Put them on to boil, 
stirring until the gelatine is dissolved. On boiling, 
pour immediately in the whites, and put into moulds 
quickly. Serve with whipped cream. — MRS. T. t. 



CREAMS, JELLIES, CANDIES, ETC. . 100 

ITALIAN CEEAM. 
One box of gelatine, one quart of milk. Boil milk 
and gelatine together, add the yolks of five eggs well 
beaten and live tablespoonfuls of sugar. Pour the 
milk over this while boiling. Beat the whites of five 
eggs to a stiff froth and add to that ten spoonfuls of 
sugar. Stir that in after removing kettle from stove. 
Flavor with vanilla. — MRS. T. c. P. 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 

Soak three tablespoonfuls of tapioca all night in a 
cup of cold water. In the morning stir it in one 
quart of new milk ; add the yolks of four eggs and a 
cup of sugar. Boil over water until thick. Stir in 
the beaten whites of the eggs. Flavor with vanilla 
and put immediately into small moulds. Set in a 
cold place to harden. Serve with cream. — MRS. 
v . c. P. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Three tablespoonfuls of tapioca in cold water and 
soak all night. In the morning drain off the water 
and put it over the fire in a quart of milk. Boil 
slowly half an hour or until the tapioca is dissolved. 
Then add the yolks of three eggs beaten with three 
heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar, and boil until the 
consistency of custard. Remove it from the fire and 
flavor with vanilla. Stir in the whites of the eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, and pour it into the dish in which 
it is to be served. Set away to cool. — MRS. w. R. H. 

CHARLOTTE-RTJSSE. 

Put three ounces of gelatine in one quart of water 
with vanilla sufficient to flavor it. Boil it to a pint, 



170 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

and when done strain through a sieve. Beat the 
yolks of three eggs and stir it into jelly. Sweeten to 
your taste and set aside to cool. Whip three pints of 
cream to a froth, let it drain on a sieve, then stir it 
in the jelly. Butter a mould and line it, bottom and 
sides, with sponge cake cut in strips, alternately crust 
and crumb. Then pour in the mixture and set it on 
ice three hours. When ready to dish, wrap a cloth 
wrung out of warm water around the mould, to melt 
the butter, and it will come out whole. — MRS. e. L. c. 

CHARLOTTE-RUSSE. 

Half box of gelatine dissolved over the fire in half 
pint of cold water. After it is dissolved let it cool. 
Take a little over a pint of rich cream, whip it very 
light. Add the gelatine, when it commences to 
thicken, sugar and wine to taste. Then add the 
whites of six eggs beaten very stiff, and lastly the 
whipped cream. Line the dishes with lady-fingers or 
thin slices of sponge cake, and pour the mixture on 
top. Put in a cool place until eaten. — MRS. W. R. H. 

angel's food. 
After your blanc-mange has been strained and 
flavored, pour it into a bowl. When it begins to 
stiffen, whip in it the beaten whites of five eggs. 
Then put into moulds. Eat with cream sauce — MRS. 
v. c. p. 

BAVARIAN CHEESE. 

One pint of cream sweetened and seasoned and 
whipped to a froth. Half ounce of isinglass dissolved 
in half pint of water and whipped into the cream. 
Turn into moulds and eat with cream. — MRS. W.R. H. 



CBEAMS, JELLIES, CANDIES, ETC. 171 

SYLLABUB. 

Half fill deep jelly glasses with rich cream sweet- 
ened and flavored with a little wine. Add the wine 
very slowly, beating all the time. Fill up with the 
whipped cream, which is made by beating stiff one 
pint of cream sweetened and flavored with lemon or 
vanilla, then adding the beaten whites of two eggs. — 

MBS. V. C. P. 

APPLE FLOAT. 

Whites of four eggs well beaten, twelve tablespoon- 
fuls of stewed apples well sweetened and dry. Beat 
until a spoon will stand up in it. Eat with cream. — 
MBS. V. C. P. 

TBIFLE. 

Make a thin custard of half gallon of milk, half 
pound of sugar and half dozen eggs. Place in a glass 
bowl a small quantity of sponge cake, broken in small 
pieces, and pour over it some good Madeira or Port 
wine. Use wine and cake in quantities to suit the 
taste. When the custard cools pour it over the cake 
and wine. 

WJiip for same. 

Half pint nice sweet, cream, whipped thick and 
made very sweet, and add to it the well frothed white 
of one egg. 

Put this whip on top the custard and ornament it 
with small pieces of preserved rind or some pretty 
preserve. — miss m. g. 

AMBBOSIA. 
One cocoanut grated, one dozen oranges. Peel the 
oranges ; slice very thin. Put on a dish a layer of 
oranges, sugar, cocoanut, alternately till the dish is 
filled.— rMBS. t. c. p. 



172 HOUSEKEEPERS COMPANION. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

Half cake of Baker's chocolate, one and one-half 
pounds of light brown sugar, one cup of cream, butter 
size of an egg. When done, flavor with one teaspoon- 
fui of vanilla, pour on buttered dish and cut in one 
inch squares. — MRS. V. c. P. 

CARAMELS. 

One and one-half pounds of brown sugar, one cake 
of chocolate, one cup of cream, one cup of nice 
molasses, butter size of an egg. Pour on buttered 
plates, cut or mark iu square blocks. — MRS. E. F. N. 

CARAMELS. 

2 cupfuls of molasses. 

3 cupfuls of sugar. 

I cupful of chocolate. 

Butter size of an egg. 

Stir in the chocolate one teaspoonful of vanilla 

just before it is done. Cook one and one-half hours. 

— MRS. M. P. 

CARAMELS. 

4 lbs. granulated sugar, 
i lb. Baker's chocolate. 
i lb. fresh butter. 

1 pt. sweet milk. 
Use your own judgment as to length of time to 
cook, but stir all the time it is cooking. Just before 
taking from the fire season with vanilla. Pour into 
buttered dishes and cut into blocks. — MRS. V. c. P. 

FRENCH CHOCOLATE CREAMS. 

Break into a bowl the whites of two egg*, add 
equal quantity of water, then stir into it conlec- 



CREAMS, JELLIES, CANDIES, ETC 173 

tioner's sugar till stiff enough to roll into balls with 
the fingers. Then roll-into small cone-shaped balls 
and put on a dish to dry. Melt one cake of Baker's 
chocolate, by putting it in an earthen dish in the 
.stove. It will soon melt, then take each ball on a 
fork and pour chocolate over them with a spoon, 
slipping each caramel on oiled paper from the fork. 

— MRS. B. P. 

COCOANUT CANDY. 

Four cups granulated sugar, one cup of water and 
the milk of two small cocoanuts or one large one. Boil 
twenty-five minutes or until it hardens around the 
edges. Take off" the stove, stir awhile, then stir in 
grated cocoanut. Put on buttered plates, and when 
cold cut in squares. — MRS. E. F. N. 

SUGAR TAFFY. 

To three teacupfuls of sugar, put one and one-half 
cupfuls of water and a scant half -cupful of vinegar. 
Butter size of a walnut, ilavur to taste. — MRS. T. C. P. 

SUGAR TAFFY. 

Three cupfuls of white sugar, one cupful of vine- 
gar, one cupful of water. Put these on to cook, do 
not stir them. When nearly done, put half tea- 
spoonful soda dissolved in a little hot water, and a 
half teaspoon ful butter. — MRS. s. A. L. 

SUGAR TAFFY. 

Take two pounds of sugar, two cupfuls of vinegar, 
three cupfuls of water. Boil till done. Then pull 
until very light and porous. Then lay it down on a 
cloth or board and let harden, then break it up in 
pieces to suit yourself. Handle as little as possible 
and never cut it. Flavor with piece of butter the 



174 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

size of a hickory nut, to be put in with the other in- 
gredients. — MRS. M. C. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. 

One cupful brown sugar, half cupful water, one 
teaspoon ful of vinegar, piece of butter size of a wal- 
nut. Boil about twenty minutes. Flavor if desired. 
— MRS. s. A. L. 

CANDY. 

Take the white of one large egg. an equal quantity 
of cold water and beat together a little. Add the 
finest pulverized sugar you can get, until you have a 
very thick mixture, so thick that it can be rolled on 
a pastry board with a rolling pan. I think it re- 
quires about one and one-half pounds of sugar to an 
egg^ but it depends on the size of the egg. The 
sugar is to be sifted four times. It is better to use 
confectioner's sugar. Roll about an eighth of an 
inch thick, using sugar in the dredging box as you 
would flour. Cut into round or square shapes, lay 
on it a fig, prune, date, walnut or any kind of nut or 
candied fruit. Turn the other half over it so that 
the fruit will show a little. It can be flavored with 
anything desired, and can be colored with fruit syrup 
or yolk of an egg. 

Or mix as above directed, make into round balls. 
Put Baker's chocolate in a cup, set the cup in a pan 
of hot water on the stove until dissolved. Take two 
forks, drop in the balls and take them out and lay 
them on buttered paper to harden. — MRS. N. w. C. 

CREAM CANDY. 

Four cups of sugar, two cups of water, three 
fourths of a cup of vinegar, one cup of cream or rich 



PUDDINGS. 175 

milk, a piece of butter the size of an egg, two 
teaspoonfuls of vanilla, a pinch of soda. Let it boil 
until it cracks in water, then work very white. — 

MRS. V. C. P. 

TO CANDY NUTS. 

Three cups of sugar, one cup of water ; boil until it 
hardens when dropped in water, then flavor with 
lemon. It must not boil after the lemon is put in 
Put a nut on the end of a fine knitting-needle, take 
out and turn on the needle until it is cool. If the 
candy gets cold, set on the stove for a few minutes. 
Malaga grapes and oranges quartered may be candied 
in the same way. — MRS. V. c. P. 

SALT ALMONDS. 
I usually blanch, my almonds and sprinkle with 
salt one day and spread on a dish to dry. The next 
morning I put a lump of butter about as large as a 
walnut in a baking pan, and when it is melted put in 
the almonds and shake around so as to grease them 
all, then put into a hot oven and brown. — MRS. 
V. C. P. 



PUDDINGS. 

RISEN PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound of flour made -up as loaf bread (with- 
out the egg) the evening before you want the pud- 
ding. In the morning beat ten eggs, very light, 
cream one pound of butter, mix them well and stir 
into the risen dough. Have ready two and one-half 



175 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

pounds of raisins seeded, cut up and floured; mix 
them in, put into moulds and boil about four hours. 

— MRS. DR. S. G. F. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

£ lb. suet. 

i lb. flour and bread-crumbs. 

\ lb. currants. 

\ lb. stoned raisins. 

\ lb. citron. 

\ lb. sugar. 

1 apple. 

2 eggs. 

A little milk and salt. 

R'.nd of one lemon grated. 

Nutmeg and allspice to taste. 
Boil five hours in a cone shaped bag or tin and 
when done set on a dish and illuminate with 
brandy. — MRS. A. s. K. 

PLUM PUDDING. 
\\ lbs. stoned raisins. 
1 lb. currants. 
\\ lbs. beef suet. 
\\ lbs. brown sugar. 
| lb. citron. 
13 eggs. 

1 large loaf light bread grated. 
1 dessert-spoonful mace. 
1 nutmeg. 

1 dessert-spoonful of salt. 
1 wine-glass of brandy. 
This will make three or four puddings. Have 
thin cotton bags, flour well and boil two hours. 



PUDDINGS. 177 

Hang up in. the wind and air and boil one and one- 
half hours when you use them. They will keep six 
months. Serve with wine sauce. — MRS. E. L. c. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

J lb. sugar. 
i lb. flour, 
i lb. butter, 
i lb. raisins. 
£ lb. currants. 
£ lb. citron. 

4 eggs whipped very light. 
1 nutmeg and small pinch of mace. 
Put in a pudding mould and cook three hours. To 
be eaten with wine sauce. — mrs. m. o. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

1 lb. beef suet (chopped fine). 

i lb. sugar. 

1 lb. raisins. 

1 lb. currants. 

i lb. citron. 

1 lb. flour. . 

1 teaspoonful of cloves. 

2 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon. 
1 nutmeg. 

Enough milk to make a stiff batter. 
Mix all well, put in a bag or tin and boil four 
hours. Use wine sauce. — mrs. e. h. 

grandmother's plum pudding. 
6 oz. bread-crumbs. 
1 lb. flour, 
i lb. beef suet (chopped very fine). 



178 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

i lb. sugar. 

I lb. raisins (stoned and chopped). 

I lb. currants. 

1 teaspoonf ul of salt. 

A little grated orange and lemon peel and spices if 
preferred. Put this in a bag or mould, well floured 
on the inside. Let it boil constantly for five hours. 
After taking it out, scatter powdered sugar over it. 
Pour a little brandy around it and light just as you 
are taking to the table. To be served with brandy 
sauce. — mrs T. t. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

i cupful of flour. 

2 cupfuls of sugar. 

1 cupful of suet. 

3 cupfuls of grated bread. 
i lb. of raisins. 

£ lb. of currants. 

2 cupfuls of sweet milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
A little salt, and spices to taste. 
Boil three hours. Eat with wine sauce or any 
other nice sauce. — MRS. T. C. P. 

PLUM PUDDING. 
1 pint raisins cut in half. 
1 pint beef suet (chopped fine). 
1 pint grated bread. 
1 pint currants (well washed). 
Mix with four tablespoonfuls of sugar; a little 
orange peel, a saltspooriful of salt, a nutmeg, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Whip four eggs 



PUDDINGS. 179 

with a pint of milk. Work the mixture all together 
then put into a mould and boil three hours. To be 
eaten with sauce. This makes a delicious pudding. 
One-half the quantity will serve a small family. — 
MRS. S. F. R. 

CHEAP PLUM PUDDING. 

3 cupfuls milk. 

6 cupfuls flour. 

2 cupfuls brown sugar. 

2 cupfuls suet. 

2 cupfuls currants. 

1 cupful citron. 

2 cupfuls raisins. 

2 teaspoonfuls yeast-powder. 
Boil five hours and eat with sauce. This quantity 
makes a large pudding bat is just as good warmed 
over. — MRS. A. L. E 

A SIMPLE PLUM PUDDING. 

Pour over a pint of bread-crumbs, half a pint of 
boiling milk, and let it cool thoroughly. Then add 
one pound of stoned raisins, half-pound of currants, 
one tablespoonful of butter mixed in a tablespoonful 
of flour, one tablespoonful of sugar, one small tea- 
spoonful of ground cloves, nutmeg and cinnamon 
each, and five eggs beaten light. Flour the fruit 
before mixing and boil three hours. Eat with hot 
brandy sauce. — MPS. p. s. 

TWO CITRON PUDDINGS. 
Half-pound of butter and half-pound of sugar- 
Beat them together till quite light, then beat six eggs 
separately and pour them into the butter and sugar. 



180 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPAmOX. 

Add three-quarters of a pound of citron cut fine and 
a tablespoonful of brandy. Stir all together, put 
them in paste and bake. — MRS. P. W. S. 

CRACKER PUDDING. 

One quart of uiilk, twelve pounded crackers, one- 
quarter pound of butter, eight eggs, beaten sepa- 
rately, one-quarter pound each of stoned raisins, cur- 
rants and citron. Eggs put in last. Bake about 
thirty-five minutes. To be eaten with wine sauce. — - 
MRS. P. S. 

WHORTLEBERRY PUDDING, 

Four eggs, two cupfuls sugar, one-quarter pound 
of butter, half cupful milk, one quart of berries, three 
teaspoonfuls of yeast-powder, flour enough to make 
the consistency of pound cake. Boil till done. To 
be eaten with cold sauce. — MRS. E. L. c. 

CABINET PUDDING. 

One teacupful of raisins or stewed peaches, one 
teacupful of suet, one teacupful of molasses, one tea- 
cupful of milk, half teaspoon ful of soda. Stir in nom- 
as thick as cake batter. Boil three hours. Serve 
with sauce. — mrs. s. J. 

LIFFEY PUDDING. 

One pound of chopped apples, yolks of five eggs, 
three ounces of melted butter, two cupfuls of sugar. 
Bake in a crust. Take whites of five eggs, beat to a 
froth, with sugar to taste. Drop with a spoon at 
equal distances over pudding after it is cold. Re- 
turn to the oven and let stay till alight brown. — MRS. 
A. J. L. 



PUDDINGS. 181 

■ APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING. 
Pare and core enough apples to fill a dish, put into 
each apple a bit of lemon peel. Soak half pint of 
tapioca in one quart of luke-warm water one hour, 
add a little salt, flavor with lemon, pour over the 
apples. Bake until apples are tender. Eat when cold 
with cream and sugar. — mps. e. h. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

One-quarter pound of butter, one-quarter sugar, 
five eggs, one cocoanut. Beat butter and sugar to- 
gether, add a little of the cocoanut at a time, and one 
half-teaeupful of cream. Beat the whites of the eggs 
with five tablespoonfuls of sugar. Spread over the 
puddings after they are baked ; then return to the 
oven and let -stay till a light brown. — MPS. DR. 
J. T. w. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

Yolks of eight eggs, beaten with one pound of 
sugar, and then add two ounces of melted butter, the 
whites of four eggs beaten light, one tablespoonful of 
flour, one wineglassful of brandy and the two cocoa- 
nuts finely grated and mixed in the batter just before 
putting it on the pastry. Bake till done. Then beat 
the whites of the other four eggs, sweeten with sugar 
and spread over the pudding, and brown alight color. 

— MRS. JUDGE J. E. H. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

One cocoanut, five eggs, one pint of milk, three- 
quarters of a pound of sugar, a piece of butter the 
size of an egg and seasoning to taste. Me'ringue on 
top. — MRS. w. R. H. 



182 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

Half pound of sugar, half pound of butter, the 
yolks of eight eggs, the rind and juice of two large 
lemons. Meringue on top made of the whites of the 
eggs, sweetened. — MRS. W. R. H. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

Rub smooth, in cold water, two tablespoonfuls of 
corn-starch. Add two cupfuls of boiling water, and 
stir till it looks clear. Pour into a dish, add two 
cupfuls of sugar and a small piece of butter. When 
almost cool, add the yolks of three eggs and the juice 
of three lemons. Bake on pastry. Then whip the 
whites of the eggs, add sugar to them and spread on 
top and brown. — MRS. s. J. and MRS. A. J. L. 
ORANGE PUDDING. 

Two oranges, half pound of sugar, half pound of 
butter, six eggs. The juice of the two oranges and 
grated rind of one. Bake in a crust. — MRS. A. J. L. 

CUSTARD PUDDING. 

Six eggs, twelve tablespoonfuls of sugar, three ta- 
blespoonfuls of flour, two and one-half pints of new 
milk, butter size of a large egg and flavoring to taste. 
Make a rich pastry, roll very thin and bake, or bake 
without pastry. Be careful to remove as soon as 
done ; for if allowed to remain longer, they are apt 
to curdle. — MRS. A. s. K. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One cupful of sugar, two eggs, two cupfuls of 
cream, one pint of flour, one and one-half teaspoon- 
fuls of Royal baking powder. Bake in a buttered 
dish in a quick oven. Eat with a rich sauce. — miss 
B- P, 



PUDDINGS. 183 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One cupful of sugar and sweet milk each, two cup- 
f uls of flour, one egg, two tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter, one teaspoouful of baking powder. Eat with 
sauce made about as follows : One and one-half cup- 
fuls of sugar, three-quarters of a cupful of butter, 
about half cupful of hot water. Place over fire till 
it boils and flavor with vanilla or wine. — MRS. DR. 

E. W. R. 

CREAM PUDDING. 

Six eggs, one pound of dry, light, white sugar, one 
(light) pound of flour, half a nutmeg, a small glass- 
ful of brandy. Beat all very hard ; then add one 
pint of sweet cream. Then pour into a buttered deep 
pudding dish. When done, serve hot, with powdered 
sugar sifted over it and light sweetmeats. 

My receipts have all been tried and found very 
good without liquor, which I never use in cooking. — 

MISS B. P. 

THICKENED MILK PUDDING. 

Thicken one quart of new milk with half pint of 
flour. While warm, stir in three-quarters of a pound 
of butter. When cold add eight eggs (yolks and 
whites beaten separately), one pound of sugar. Flavor 
with vanilla or lemon-juice. Bake on pastry rolled 
very thin. — MRS. E. F. G. 

PLAIN PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, six eggs (the whites and yolks 
beaten separately), six light tablespoonfuls of flour, 
a little salt. Pour in a buttered pan and bake in a 

quick oven. 

Sauce for same. 
Two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of butter, half 



184 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

cupful of water. Cook till it thickens. Then add 
two eggs well beaten, stirring all the time for a few 
minutes. After removing from the fire, while hot 
add two wine-glasses of sherry wine. — MRS. M. A. p. 

CARAMEL PUDDING. 

Cream together one cupful of butter, one cupful 
of sugar, five eggs (the yolks and whites beaten sepa- 
rately). Stone and chop fine one cupful of preserved 
damsons. Beat well together. Add one teaspoonf ul 
of vanilla. Bake on puff paste. 

Very nice and very pretty served at the same time 
with thickened milk or custard puddings. — MRS.T.C.P. 

SWISS PUDDING. 

Butter a tin mould and dust it with flour. Sift 
together one pound of flour and two teaspoonfuls of 
yeast-powder, two of salt. Rub a half pound of sugar 
with one-quarter pound of butter, until they are 
mixed. Stir the flour with the sugar and butter, 
then quickly mix with them two eggs, a pint of milk 
and a teaspoonful of lemon extract. Let it boil until 
thoroughly soaked. Serve with sauce. — MRS. T. T. 

BOILED PUDDING. 

Ten eggs beaten separately. Then beat together 
and add one tablespoonf ul of flour and one teacupful 
of milk for each egg. Add a little salt and boil in a 
mould. 

Sauce for same. 

Four teacupfuls good brown sugar, one cupful of 
water. Let it boil. Thicken with two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour rubbed into one-quarter pound of good 
butter. Season with orange peel or nutmeg. — 
MISS M. G. 



PUDDIXGS. 185 

BOILED BREAD PUDDING. 

One pint of bread crumbs, one quart of milk, four 
eggs, four tablespoonfuls of flour. Boil the milk, 
pour over the bread, let it stand until the bread is 
soft; then mash smoothly and add the flour and eggs 
with a little salt. Boil in a bag or mould one hour. 
Wine sauce. — mrs. v. c. p. 

GRITS OR HOMINY PUDDING. 

The grits must be boiled soft like rice. Then take 
six eggi well beaten, nine tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
one and one-quarter pints of grits, one and one- half 
pints of new milk, two tablespoonfuls of cream, a 
piece of butter the size of a hen's egg^ one teaspoon 
ful of salt, a pinch of soda, cream-tartar the size of a 
grain of corn, two teaspoon fuls of vanilla. Bake on 
a crust. The butter, cream, salt, soda and cream- 
tartar must be stirred into the grits. — MRS. M. A. A. 

RICE PUDDING. 

Boil a cup of rice till nearly done, then add a pint 
of new milk. When perfectly done, mash, and while 
hot, add half pound of butter, one pound of sugar, 
six fresh eggs beaten till light. (Beat the sugar with 
the eggs.) Season with wine or brandy and one 
grated nutmeg. Lemon is also nice for seasoning it. 
Put in rich puff paste, and bake till a light brown. — 
MRS. S. T. 

ORANGE CO. PUDDING. 

Yolks of eight eggs, whites of four, one pound of 
sugar, half pound of butter. Flavor to taste and 
bake on one crust. One lemon will flavor this 
quantity, or you can use vanilla. — MRS. V. c. P. 



186 HO US KKEEPFAV S CO MP A NION. 

QUEEN OF ALL PUDDINGS. 

One pint of bread crumbs soaked half an hour in 
one quart of milk, one cupful of sugar, one ounce of 
butter, four eggs. Beat the yolks and sugar together 
until light, then add them to the crumbs and milk. 
Flavor with essence of lemon, lemon juice, vanilla or 
nutmeg as preferred. Pour into a pudding dish and 
bake in a moderate oven about twenty minutes. 
Whip the whites until frothy, add to them a teacup- 
ful of powdered sugar and a teaspoon ful of lemon 
and beat till very stiff. When the pudding is done, 
put over the top a layer of fruit or some acid pre- 
serve, then the whites, and put back in the oven a 
moment to brown. Serve cold with sugar and cream, 
or warm with sauce. — MRS. w. h. b. C; MRS. M. A. w.; 

MRS. E. H. 

MERINGUE PUDDING. 

. One pint of bread crumbs, soaked in a quart of 
new milk. Beat light the yolks of eight eggs, to 
which add two cupfuls of sugar. Melt a piece of 
butter the size of an egg and pour to the bread. Then 
put the milk, bread and butter into the egg and 
sugar, and bake until done. Spread lightly with 
acid fruit (grapes, cherries or prunes). Whip to :i 
stiff froth the whites of the eggs with one cupful of 
sugar, and spread over the fruit and bake a light 
brown. — mrs. judge j. e. h. 

SWEET POTATO PUDDING. 

8 eggs (whites and yolks beaten separately). 
I lb. of butter. 
I lb. of sugar. 



PUDDINGS. 187 

1 lb. of sweet potato. 

2 lemons. 

Bake with or without pie crust. — MBS. E. L. C. 

SWEET POTATO PUDDING. 

8 eggs. 

1 lb. of sugar. 
| lb. of butter. 
1£ lb. of potato. 
Flavor with lemon and bake on a rich crust. — 

MRS. M. A. W. 

IRISH POTATO PUDDING. 

i lb. mashed potato. 
\ lb. butter. 
\ lb. sugar. 

8 eggs beaten separately. 
\ pt. of cream. 
Bake on puff paste.— mrs. v. c. p. 

DANDY PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, yolks of six eggs, four table- 
spoonfuls sifted flour, one. teacupf ul of sugar. Boil as 
custard. When done put in a baking dish. Flavor 
with vanilla or lemon. Make a me'ringue of the six 
whites and one cupful of sugar. Flavor and put on 
top. of the pudding. Bake a light brown. Eat cold. 

—MRS. W. R. H.; MRS. V. C. P. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Soak one cup of tapioca in one quart of milk 
three hours, or over night. Let it boil, then take off 
from the fire, stir in five eggs, one cupful of sugar. 
Flavor with lemon. Put in a dish, bake half hour. 
Serve hot. Wine sauce. If you wish, reserve the 



188 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

whites of the eggs and make meringue for the top of 
the pudding. — MRS. V. c. P. 

TRANSPARENT PUDDING. 

Half pound of butter, half pound of sugar, half 
nutmeg, eight eggs beaten separately. Set on the 
fire over boiling water, stirring constantly until it 
thickens. Season to taste with lemon, vanilla or 
orange. Bake in puff paste. — mrs. v. c. p. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Half pound of farina, boiled in one quart of milk until 
soft and thick. Take off the fire, stir in it half pound 
of butter, half pound of sugar, half pound of chocolate 
(grated). When cold, add the yolks of eight eggs, two 
teaspoonfuls of vanilla. Put in a dish, set the dish 
in a pan of boiling water and bake forty-five minutes. 
Beat the whites of the eight eggs with one cup of 
sugar, one teaspoonful of vanilla; put on top of the 
pudding five minutes before taking it out and brown 
slightly. Eat cold with custard. — MRS. V. C. P. 

PUMPKIN PUDDING. 

One quart of stewed pumpkin, six ounces of butter 
warmed in one pint of milk, half pound of sugar beat 
in the yolks of five eggs, half nutmeg, three glasses of 
wine. Beat the whites and add last. Bake in pastry. 
— MRS. V. c. p. 

DELMONICO PUDDING. 
Three pints of milk, four tablespoonfuls of corn- 
starch, one cup of sugar, yolks of five eggs, a little 
salt, one and one-half teaspoonfuls of vanilla. Pour 
off half-pint of milk, boil the remainder. When it boils 
add the sugar, the beaten yolks of the eggs, the corn- 



PUDDINGS. 189 

starch (dissolved in the half-pint of milk) and the 
salt. Boil until the corn-starch is done, stirring all 
the time, as it burns so easily. Put in the vanilla, 
then pour in a baking dish. Beat the whites of the 
eggs with half-cupful of sugar, put on the top and 
brown slightly. Eat cold. — MRS. V. C. P. 

PAN CAKES. 

One pint of flour, one quart of milk, five eggs and 
a little salt. Mix as waffle batter. If it is not thin 
enough, add more milk. Grease the pan, pour in 
enough batter to cover the bottom of the pan. When 
brown on the bottom, turn over and brown the other 
side. Put three or four layers on a dish together. 
Eat hot with sauce.— miss m. g. 

BUTTER-MILK PANCAKES. 

One quart of flour, one and one-half pints of butter- 
milk, one egg, one teaspoonful of saleratus or soda. 
— MRS. v. c. P. 

BELL FRITTERS. 

Boil a piece of butter the size of an egg in one pint 
of water. Pour it boiling on one pint of sifted flour. 
Beat until smooth. Set to cool ; when cold, add, one at 
a time, five eggs. Beat very hard. Fry in spoonfuls 
in boiling lard. — MRS. V. C. P. 

PLAIN SUET DUMPLINGS. 

One pound of flour, two teaspoonfuls of yeast- 
powder, one pound of fine suet well rubbed together. 
Wet with milk, make into balls or cakes or roll out 
on the cake-board, cut in cakes half-inch thick. Drop 
in boiling water and boil twenty minutes. Eat with 
sauce. — MRS. v. c. P. 



190 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

SUET DUMPLINGS (with fruit.) 
One pound of grated bread, one pound of suet, one 
pound of sugar, four eggs, half pound of currants, 
half pound of raisins, lemon. With your hands well 
floured make into balls the size of an egg. Roll in 
flour, drop in boiling water. Boil twenty minutes. 
When done they will rise to the top of the water. 
Wine sauce. — MRS. V. c. p. 

CHERRY ROLL. 

To one quart of flour, add one teacupful of lard, 
one teaspoonful of quick yeast, or half teaspoonful 
of soda and one of cream-tartar. Add water enough 
to make a soft dough, roll out quarter of an inch thick, 
spread with cherries or any fruit you like. Then 
roll it in a round roll, tie up in a cloth and boil about 
an hour. — MRS. T. E. C. c. 



SAUCES. 

SAUCE FOR PLUM PUDDING. 

One pint of sweet cream, one cupful of sugar, 
whites of two eggs. Flavor with vanilla. Whip the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, then add the cream, 
sugar and vanilla, beating it well until very light. — ■ 

MRS. A. L. F. 

SAUCE FOR PLUM PUDDING. 

One egg, one cupful of sugar, one heaping table- 
spoonful of flour in two tablespoonfuls of water, a 
piece of butter the size of a walnut. Beat all together 
and then pour it slowly into a pint of boiling milk. 



SA UCES. 191 

Put on the stove and stir until it thickens. — MRS. 

W. B. P. 

SAUCE FOR ROLL. 

One pound of brown sugar, two cupfuls of water, 
three ounces of butter, juice and sliced rinds of two 
lemons. After it comes to a boil, add one teaspoon- 
f ul of corn-starch and the yolk of an egg well beaten. 
Let the water and sugar boil ten or fifteen minutes 
before you add the egg and corn-starch. — MRS. T. E. 
c. c. 

SAUCE. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of butter, half 
cupful of water. Cook till it thickens. Then add 
two eggs well beaten, stirring all the time for a few 
minutes. After removing from the fire, while hot, 
add two wine-glasses of sherry wine. — MRS. M. A. p. 

SAUCE. 

One and one-half cupfuls of sugar, three-quarters 
of a cupful of butter, half cupful of hot water. Place 
over fire till it boils, flavor with vanilla or wine. — 

MRS. E. W. R. 

SAUCE. 

Four cupfuls good brown sugar, one cupful of 
water. Let it boil. Thicken with two tablespoonfuls 
of flour, rubbed into one-quarter of a pound of good 
butter. Season with orange-peel or nutmeg. — miss. 

M. G. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter, eight tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, four tablespoonfuls of cream, two eggs beaten 
separately, one lemon. Beat well together the butter, 
eggs and sugar. Beat in the grated rind and juice of 



192 HOUSEKEEPERS COMPANION. 

the lemon. Beat in slowly the cream. Put in a basin, 
over a vessel of boiling water, stir until it thickens and 
looks glossy. Set on ice. Serve cold with hot pud- 
dings or hot cake. If you prefer wine or brandy, 
leave out the lemon and add them when the sauce is 
cold. — MRS. v. c. P. 

CREAM SAUCE FOR BLANC-MANGE. 
Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, add 
two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, one of wine, 
one teaspoonful of rose-water. Beat well. Whip to 
a froth, one pint of cream. Add to the egg. — MRS. 
V. C. P. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM FOR BLANC-MANGE. 

Dissolve in a little hot water, one-fourth of a cake 
of Baker's chocolate. Stir it in one quart of sweet 
boiled custard. — mrs. v. c. p. 



PIES. 



FAMILY PIE CRUST. 
One pound of flour, three-quarters of a pound of 
butter, one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of 
cream-tartar, ice water to make into a stiff dough. 
Chop half the butter into the flour until it looks like 
yellow sand. (Sift the soda and cream-tartar with 
the flour.) Work with ice-water into a stiff dough, 
roll into a thin sheet, put thin pieces of butter about 
on the paste, fold up and re-roll and so on until the 
butter is used up, then make out your crust. The 
paste is quite as good made with one half lard, and 
all chopped into the flour before mixed. The idea is 





MINCE ME^ 


lbs. 


beef. 


t( 


layer raisins. 


It 


currants. 


u 


citron. 


u 


beef suet. 


. a 


candied lemon-peel. 


u 


apple. 


u 


sultana raisins. 


u 


sugar. 



PIES. 193 

to handle the paste as little and as quickly as pos- 
sible. Fresh cool water answers almost as well as 

ice. — MRS. DE. S. F. 



2 
2 
2 
1 

2 

11 

4 

2 

2 

2 nutmegs grated. 

I oz. cloves. 

-J " cinnamon. 

£ " mace. 

1 qt. of sherry or good home made currant wine. 

1 quart of good brandy. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

2 oranges (juice and rind). 
2 lemons (juice and rind). 

Cover the meat with boiling water and simmer 
gently till tender, then stand away till cold. Shred 
the suet and chop it line. Pare, core and chop the 
apples. Stone the raisins. Shred the citron. When 
the meat is perfectly cold, chop it fine, and mix all 
the dry ingredients with it, then acid the juice and 
rinds of the lemons and oranges. Mix well and pack 
in a stone jar. Pour over the brandy and wine, cover 
closely and stand in a cool place. Mince meat made 
by this recipe will keep all winter. When ready to 



194 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

use, dip out the quantity desired and thin either with 
wine or cider. — MRS. w. H. B. c. 

MINCE MEAT. 

2 lbs. (lean, fresh) beef boiled, and when cold 
chopped fine. 

1 lb. beef suet, cleared of strings and minced. 
5 lbs. apples pared and chopped. 

2 " raisins seeded and chopped. 

1 lb. sultana raisins seeded and chopped. 

2 lbs. currants, washed and carefully picked. 
| lb. citron cut up fine. 

2^ lbs. brown sugar. 
1 qt. brown sherry. 

1 pt. best brandy. 

2 tablespoon fuls cinnamon. 
2 " cloves. 

1 tablespoonful allspice. 
1 " salt. 

1 nutmeg.— MRS. s. H. L. G. 

MINCE MEAT. 

2 lbs. stoned raisins. 
li lbs. suet. 

2| lbs. acid apples chopped fine. 

2 lbs. brown sugar. 

£ oz. cloves finely ground. 

I oz. mace finely ground. 

I oz. nutmeg finely ground. 

£ pt. wine. 

i pt. French brandy. 
Pour wine and brandy on the apples, then mix all 
ingredients and tie up closely. Always stir from the 
bottom of the jar when you make your pie. — miss b. p. 



pies. 195 

mince meat. 
4 lbs. lean beef boiled and chopped fine. 
2 lbs. suet picked and chopped. 
2 lbs. currants, washed. 
2 lbs. raisins. 
1 lb. citron. 
12 large apples, chopped fine. 

1 pt. brandy. 
J pt. wine. 

2 lemons, the juice and grated peel. 
Mace, cinnamon and nutmeg. — MRS. A. J. L. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Clean well and boil the beef feet. After taking off 
the oil and thin jelly, take out all bones, and chop up 
the glutinous substance left, very fine. 

1 lb. of the substance. 

i lb. of suet. 

1 lb. of raisins. 

1 lb. of citron. 

2 doz. large apples peeled and chopped fine. 

1 qt. of wine. 

Boil five or ten minutes. Pour into a bowl. When 
cold slice and put in pies, adding a little brandy to 
each pie if you like. It can be kept a long while. 
Very nice. — MRS. judge g. t. G. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Take off the huck and skin of beef or calves' feet 
and boil till they can be mashed through a colander, 
after removing the bones. Add to the jelly thus 
obtained. 

2 doz. apples. 

1 lb. raisins, cut. 



196 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

1 lb. currants, washed. 
\ lb. citron, sliced. 
1 teacupful suet. 
i lb. butter. 

Cinnamon, nutmeg, brandy and sugar to taste. 
— miss M. G. 

MARLBOROUGH PIE. 

6 medium-sized apples. 

3 eggs. 

1 cupful of sugar. 

1 cupful of cream or milk. 

1 tablespoonf ul butter. 
Juice of a lemon. 

2 tablespoonf uls of sherry if you use wine. 
Stew the apples and press through a sieve ; add to 

them while hot the butter; let stand till cool. When 
cold, add the yolks of the eggs well beaten, the lemon- 
juice, sugar, cream and sherry. Line two pie plates 
with paste, fill with the mixture and bake in a quick 
oven thirty minutes. Beat the whites of the eggs to 
a stiff froth, adding to them gradually three table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar, and a little essence 
of lemon, then spread over the top of the pies, and 
return them to the oven until a light brown. — MRS. 

W. H. B. C. 

APPLE PIE. 

Pare and stew the apple till thoroughly done and 
dry. Rub through a colander and sweeten with 
sugar to taste. When cool, add the whites of three 
eggs and a teacup of cream whipped, to a pint of ap- 
ples. Beat all the ingredients together with a patent 
egg-whip, one with a wheel if convenient. Spread 



PIES. 197 

upon crusts of rich paste baked in shallow tin pie- 
plates. Flavor with nutmeg and pile up three or 
four deep. — MRS. E. F. N. 

APPLE MERINGUE. 

Stew, sweeten and season, nice juicy apples to 
your taste. Put in paste and bake. When done, 
put over the top a me'ringue made of three whites of 
eggs and three tablespoonfuls of sugar to each pie. 
Brown lightly. Peaches are excellent baked this 
way. — MRS. V. c. P. 

PEACH PIE. 

M.ake a rich pastry. Pare your peaches, slice them 
and sweeten them to taste. Line the pie plates with 
pastry, then put on the peaches, Then pour over 
them a custard made with three eggs, three table- 
spoonfuls of sugar,, a pint of milk and one tablespoon- 
ful of corn-starch. Then bake. — MRS. J. Q. F. 

DRIED PEACH PIE. 

Stew the dried peaches, sweeten them. Line the 
bottom of the plate with a rich pastry, fill with 
peaches, then cover with pastry and bake. Eat with 
cream. — G. 

HUCKLEBERRY CUSTARD. 

Line deep pie-plates with pastry. Half fill them 
with berries. Fill with nice, sweet custard and 
bake. The whites of the eggs may be left out to 
make meringue for the custard. — MRS. V. c. P. 

GUGTARD PIE. 
Bake puff paste in deep pie plates. Fill with the 
following custard: One quart of new milk, two 



198 HOUSEKEEPER'' S COMPANION. 

tablespoonfuls of corn-starch (or one cupful of flour) 
one and one-half cupf ills of sugar, yolks of four eggs. 
Boil a few minutes, stirring constantly. Flavor with 
vanilla or lemon. Fill the crusts. When done add 
a me*ringue made of the whites of the eggs and one 
half cupful of sugar flavored. Bake a light brown. 
— MRS. v. c. P. 

RHUBARB PIE. 

Pare your rhubarb and cut into strips about an 
inch long. Wash it and sweeten to your taste. Let 
it stand while you are making the pastry. Make a 
rich pastry and line the bottom of your pie plate. 
Than put your rhubaib and the syrup formed by 
standing in the sugar (without cooking) on the 
pastry. Then lay strips of pastry across each way 
on top of the rhubarb and bake. — MRS. J. G. F. 

LEMON PIE. 

Take one lemon, grate inside and out. Pour over 
the lemon one and one fourth coffee cups of boiling 
water. Let stand till cold. Take one and one-fourth 
cups of sugar, beat with the yolks of three eggs. 
Then pour in the lemon, add one tablespoon ful of 
flour, put it on the pie- crust and bake a light brown. 
Beat the whites well and sweeten with sugar. 
Spread it on the pie r.fter it is baked, and brown 
lightly. — MRS. T. C. P. 

LEMON PIE. 

Two cups sugar, one cup milk, two tablespoonfuls 
butter, six eggs. Beat yolks of eggs and sugar to- 
gether, add butter, then milk, the juice of three 
lemons and rind of one. Bake in a crust, and when 



PIES. 199 

done spread with a meringue made of the whites of 
the eggs, one cup of sugar and the juice of a lemon, 
and brown. — MRS. P. s. 

LEMON TARTS. 

Beat together until smooth, the juice and grated 
rind of two lemons, two cnpfuls of sugar, two eggs 
and crumbs of stale bread. Bake in small tins lined 
with pastry until the crust is cooked. — miss o. w. 

MOLASSES PIE. 

Six eggs, four cupfuls molasses, two cupfuls sugar, 
four tablespoon fuls butter, four of flour. Flavor with 
lemon. This makes four pies with bottom crust. — 
MRS. N. W. c. 

MARGUERITES. 

Cut puff paste in cakes, round or square. Bake, 
and when cold, spread over each marmalade or pre- 
serves. Make a meringue and put it over each. 
Brown lightly. Small sponge cakes prepared the 
same way are very nice to be eaten with custard. — 
MRS. V. C. P. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

Two ounces of butter, two ounces of flour, two 
ounces of Parmesan cheese, one ounce of Cheddar 
cheese, one egg, salt and cayenne pepper. Put the 
flour on a paste-board, sprinkle in a little salt and 
cayenne pepper, grate the cheese and rub it in. Mix 
all the ingredients with the yolk of an egg^ making 
a smooth paste. Roll until an eighth of an inch 
thick, then cut into strips or rings. Bake in a hot 
oven until a light brown. It usually takes about 
ten minutes.— MRS. V. C. P. 



900 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION, 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

Roll scraps of puff paste thin and sprinkle with 
grated cheese and cayenne pepper (if you like). 
Fold, roll out, and sprinkle again, and repeat the pro- 
cess. Then place on ice to harden. When cold, roll 
into rectangular shape, one-eighth of an inch thick. 
Place it on a baking-pan, and with a pastry cutter, 
dipped in hot water, cut into strips four or five inches 
long and less than a quarter of an inch wide. Bake 
and serve cob-house fashion. — MRS. V. c. P. 

SANDWICHES. 

Grate one-quarter of a pound of cold ham in a 
bowl with one tablespoonful chopped pickle, one 
teaspoonful mustard, a little black pepper, six des- 
sert-spoonfuls butter. Put in a bowl and stir quickly 
until a cream. Add the ham and seasoning, mix all 
together well. Have slices of light bread and spread 
the mixture on each side of each slice. Cold grated 
tongue, instead of ham is very nice spread on the 
inside of biscuits. 

SANDWICHES. 

Mince ham and tongue together, and spread between 
buttered bread. Add a little French mustard to the 
mince if liked. — MRS. s. T. 



BUTTER-MAKING. 

In making butter, the first requisite is to have good 
cows, judiciously and well-fed. Their food should be 
salted frequently. They should have plenty of nice, 
pure water to drink three times a day. The milk 



BUTTER-MAKING. 201 

pails and bowls should be used for no other purpose 
than for milk, and should be kept well aired and 
strictly clean. Boiling water and plenty of it should 
be used in washing them. There should be a suffi- 
cient number of milk bowls to sun or air them 
several hours before using them, and these should be 
thoroughly rinsed with cold water before filling with 
milk. The milk should be kept in a cool, airy place in 
summer, in a warmer place in winter, where the atmos- 
phere is pure, and there are no foreign odors of fish, 
meats, vegetables, coal gas or anything else. In sum- 
mer we keep the milk in an airy cellar in a swinging 
cupboard covered on all four sides with wire. We use 
earthenware bowls exclusively for cream and milk. 
The milk should usually be skimmed in about thirty- 
six hours; in hot weather frequently sooner, in cold 
weather rarely allowed to stand longer. You can 
usually tell when the cream readily separates from 
the milk We use a circular chum, and if desired to 
churn in the morning, the churn should be scalded 
thoroughly inside with boiling water the night before. 
Then pour cold water in it and let stand until the 
next morning. Then pour out and rinse well with 
clear fresh water, and then the churn is ready for the 
cream. After using, it should be well washed and 
scalded and put in the air and kept in an airy place 
until used again. Before beginning to churn, scald 
well your butter stick (which should be of cedar), 
and prints ; then keep in cold water till ready to use 
and while in use. It is better to churn every day in 
summer if you have sufficient cream, certainly at any 
season three or four times a week. If you have a 
refrigerator the trouble of butter-making is consider- 



202 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

ably lessened in summer. I keep the cream in the 
refrigerator except the last skimming, which I put in 
the churn, then pour in the cold cream and churn 
immediately. After the butter comes, let off the 
buttermilk, then wash the butter twice in pure cold 
water to extract the buttermilk, before taking it 
from the churn. Then salt with about one and one- 
quarter ounces to the pound (the salt should be of 
the best quality), and print immediately. The least 
handling the best; only enough to work in the salt 
well is required. The first, last and most important 
requisite in buttermaking is cleanliness in every- 
thing. No butter-coloring or saltpetre is allowed. — G. 



A FEW HINTS TO HOUSEKEEPERS. 

Housekeepers should remember that coffee which 
is purchased already roasted should be kept in a 
close tin chest ; that tea, to preserve its full flavor, 
should also have the air excluded, that cakes should 
likewise be kept in a tin box with a tight-fitting top, 
and they will keep fresh three times as long as if left 
exposed. Bread preserved in the same way, will 
keep fresh much longer. 

TO TEST THE HEAT OF AN OVEN. 

The " moderate oven " temperature is that degree 
of heat which will turn ordinary writing-paper dark 
yellow or buff, that is, the color of kindling wood. 
Put a sheet of writing-paper in the oven, close the 
door. If the paper blazes the oven is too hot. 
Arrange the dampers to lower the heat for ten 



A FEW HINTS TO HOUSEKEEPERS. 203 

minutes, then again test it with more paper. It may 
be necessary to try the temperature several times, 
but the time thus used is well spent. — miss c. 

A HINT TO COOKS. 

One of the wisest precautions to take when you 
are baking is to have the oven perfectly clean, and 
yet it is one that is often neglected, and many an 
otherwise faultless dish has been spoiled by the 
sifting of ashes from the upper grate in the oven. — 
MISS c. 

SODA. 

It is said that soda is never unpleasant if dissolved 
in hot water. 

SOAP. 

18 lbs. washing soda. 

9 lbs. lime. 

22 £lbs. clear grease. 
Put the soda in twelve gallons of water, then add 
the lime. After it commences to boil, let it boil half 
an hour, then dip off into another pot and allow it to 
settle. Wash the other pot out before putting in the 
grease. After putting in the grease, commence to 
feed with the lye, made with the soda and lime, being 
very careful not to get any of the sediment in it. 
This pot of lye will require to be filled up three or 
four times with boiling water. After the soap has 
boiled well three and one-half hours, it will be done 
and ready to be salted. Six double handfuls will-be 
required or salt until the lye separates clearly from 
the soap, which you can perceive as you dip it up with 
your paddle. — MES. E. F. G. 



204 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

AN EXCELLENT RECEIPT FOR CLEANING CLOTHES. 

J lb. Castile soap. 

1 oz. alcohol. 

1 oz. ether. 

1 oz. ammonia. 

1 oz. glycerine. 
Cut the soap in a quart of boiling cistern water. 
Add four quarts more of water and the other ingre- 
dients, mixing well. — MRS. T. t. 

TO CLEAN CLOTH. 

£ lb. white Castile soap dissolved in one pint of 

water. 
Add 2 qts. water. 
I lb. ammonia. 
£ oz. ether, 
i oz alcohol. 
Shake well before using. — MRS. v. c. P. 

FOR CLEANSING BLANKETS. 

Put two large tablespoonfuls of borax into a pint 
of soft water. Pour this into a tub of cold water. 
When dissolved, put in a pair of blankets, let them 
remain all night. Next day rub them and rinse 
thoroughly in two waters, and hang them to dry. Do 
not wring them. — MRS. w. A. T. 

TO REMOVE INK SPOTS. 

Saturate the ink spot with lemon-juice, sprinkle 
well with salt, then place a cotton cloth over it and 
rub with a hot iron. If necessary, apply more than 
once. Then you can wash out all the discoloration. 
Tried and known to be good. — G. 



A FEW HINTS TO HOUSEKEEPERS. 205 

TO REMOVE FRUIT STAINS. 

Hold the stain over a deep basin. Pour boiling 
water on the stain. Do not allow the stain to touch 
the water in the basin or wet it before using the 
water. — mrs. v. c. p. 



To remove turoentine — kerosene oil. 



To clean knives — coal ashes or Irish potato. 

To remove rust from steel, cover with sweet oil, let 
stay forty-eight hours, then rub with unslacked lime. 

TO IMPROVE FURNITURE. 

Take equal quantities of sweet oil, turpentine and 
alcohol. Mix together and rub well with a soft cloth. 

TO REMOVE INK FROM CARPETS. 

Cover the spot with grated Irish potato. Renew it 
as often as it is discolored ; all the ink will come out. 
to wash windows. 

Choose a dull da}', or at least a time when the sun 
is not shining on the window, for when the sun 
shines on the window it causes it to be dry streaked, 
no matter how much it is rubbed. Take a painter's 
brush and dust them inside and out, washing all the 
wood work inside before touching the glass. The 
latter must be washed simply in warm water diluted 
with ammonia ; do not use soap. Use a small cloth 
with a pointed stick to get the dust out of the corners ; 
wipe dry with a soft piece of cotton cloth ; do not use 
linen, as it makes the glass linty when dry. Polish 
with tissue paper or old newspaper. — G. 

LOTION FOR THE HANDS. 

Two ounces of lemon juice and one ounce of glyc- 
erine. — miss f. s. B. 



206 HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION. 

LEMON JUICE AS A REMEDY. 

The juice of half a lemon in a glass of water will 
frequently cure a sick headache. If the hands are 
stained, there is nothing that will remove the stain 
quicker than lemon-juice with the addition of a little 
salt. Lemon-juice is an excellent remedy for inflam- 
matory rheumatism and also for biliousness. In the 
latter case the juice should be taken before break- 
fast. The pulp may also be eaten, avoiding every 
particle of skin. Lemon-juice made very thick with 
sugar is useful to relieve coughs and sore throats. 

TO DRIVE OFF ROACHES AND ANTS. 

Powdered. borax sprinkled on the shelves of pantry. 
Another remedy is : two pounds of alum dissolved 
in three quarts of hot water and applied hot to places 
infested with them. Still another remedy : peel 
green cucumbers, and strew the peeling around the 
places infested. If one application is not sufficient, 
repeat it. 



INDEX. 



BREADS AND YEASTS. 



Biscuit 22 

— Beaten 22 

— Maryland 21 

— Worked 22 

Buns 25 

Cakes, Buckwheat 20 

— Flannel 20 

— Oatmeal 20 

— Stale Bread 21 

Corn Bread 24 

Aunt Lydia's 24 

Corn Muffins 25 

Graham Bread 26 

Loaf Bread 15 

Madison Rolls 14 

Maryland Yellow Pone 25 

Milk Rising Bread 23 

Muffins 18, 19 



Muffins, Cream 18 

— Habty 19 

— Pop Over 19 

— without Eggs 19 

Pan Bread 24 

Pockets 16 

Pudding Bread 24 

Rusk 16 

Sally Lunn 17, 18 

Tea Bread 19 

Turnovers 15 

Waffles, Sweet Milk 21 

— Sour Milk 21 

Yeast 12, 13, 14 

— and Bread 14 

— Peach Leaf 13 

— Rolls 16 

— Self Working 11 



COFFEE, TEA, AND CHOCOLATE. 



Chocolate 27 

— an Addition to 27 

Coffee 26 

— Boiled 27 



Coffee, Dripped 26 

Tea, Black 27 

— Green 27 



EGGS. 



Eg°:s, Beauregard 30 

— Boiled ; 28 

— with Cream 31 

— Mulled in Tea or Coffee 28 



Eggs, Poached 28 

— Scrambled 28 

Fried Baker's Bread 30 

Omelette 29 



SHELL FISH. 



Clams, Boiled 37 

— Chowder 38 

— Devilled 38 

— to Fry 37 

— to Roast 37 

— Soup 37 

Crab, to Cook and Salad 43 

— Devilled 43 

— to Devil 43 

— Hard, Fried 42 

— Hot 44 

— Patties 44 

— to Pick Up 42 

— Salad 44 

— Soft 42 

— Soup 44, 45 

Lobster Chowder 42 



Lobster Salad 42 

— Stewed 41 

Oysters, to Broil 34 

— Fricassee 31 

— to Fry 34 

— Panned 32 

— Pickled 34, 35 

— Pie 33 

— Raw 31 

— to Roast 31 

-Scalloped 33 

— Soup 36 

— Spiced 34 

— Stewed 32 

Terrapin, with Cream Sauce 40 

— to Pick Up 39 

Turtle 40 



208 



INDEX. 



FISH. 



Fish, Baked 46 

- to Boil 45 

— to Broil 47 

— M try 47 

- Soup 47 



Shad, to Bake 46 

Sheepshead, to Bake 43 

— to Fry 47 

Shrimp Pie 48 

Sturgeon Salad 48 



POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 



Chicken, to Boil and Dress. . . 



40 



to Droil 50 



— Croquettes 51 

— to Fry 50 

— Jellied 52 Rabbit 

— Pie 51 

— Salad 52 

— Smothered 50 

— Soup 53 



Duck, to Cook 54 

Gosling, to Cook 53 

Gumbo Fiiee 53 

Partridge, to Cook 54 

54 

Turkey Olio 49 

to Roast 48 

Wild Fowl, to Roast 54 



MEAT SAUCES. 



Butter Sauce for Boiled Fowl 56 

Celery Sauce for Boded Fowl 55 

Chilla Sauce 57 

Cranberry Sauce 57 

Cucumber Catsup 58 

Drawn Putter 55 

Ea:s: Sauce for Fish 55 

French Mayonnaise 58 

Lobster Sauce for Large Fish 55 



Mint Sauce 55 

Mustard, Prepared 57 

Onion Sauce 55 

Oyster Sauce 56 

— Sauce, Plain 56 

Tomai < > Catsup 58 

— Sauce 56 

Walnut Catsup 57 

Worcestershire Sauce, Imitation. . 57 



BEEF. 



Beef, to Corn 62 

— to Cure for Drying 61 

— Frizzled 60 

— Kidney, to Stew 67 

— to Pickle 02 

— to Roast 59 

— Spiced, Round of 60 

— Soup 64 

— Steak, to Cook 59 

-Tea 63 



Beef, Texas Receipt for Curing.. 61 

— Tongue, to Stew 67 

Calf's Head 62 

— Stewed 62 

S< >up, Black Bean 66 

— Mock Terrapin 65 

— Mock Turtle 65 

— Vegetable 64, 65 

Veal, to Roast 66 



Lamb, to Roast 



LAMB. 



67 



Bacon, to Cure .. 
Ham, Baked 

— Curing 

— Pork, to Bake. 
Lard, to Cure — 



PORK. 

. 68 Pig's Feet, to Hash 72 

. 68 Roast Pig 71 

. 68 Sausage 69, 70 

. 69 Souse, to Make 70 

. 70 I Spare-ribs 70 



SOUPS. 



Beef Soup 64 

Black Bean Soup 66 

Chicken Soup 53 

Clam Soup 37 

Crab Soup 44,45 

FishSoup 47 



Gumbo Filee 53 

Mock Terrapin Soup 65 

Mock Turtle S<>up 65 

Ovster Soup 36 

Vegetable Soup 64, 65 



LXDEX. 



209 



VEGETABLES. 



Apples, to Bake 83 

— Coddled 83 

— to Fry 83 

Asparagus 81 

Beans, Dried Lima or Other Beans, 

to Boil 78 

— Lima 78 

Beets 84 

Cabbage 73 

Celery 85 

Corn, Baked 76, 7? 

— to Can 77 

— Fritters 70 

— Green, to Boil 75 

— Green, Pudding 76 

Cvmlings, to Fry 78 

— to Stew 78 

Egg Plant, to Stew 80 

Hominy 82 

— Cakes 82 

Lettuce 85 

Macaroni, with Cheese 77 

— without Cheese 77 

Onions, to Bake 82 



Onions, to Cook 

— to Fry 

— Raw, to Dress 

Parsnip, to Cook 

— to Fry 

Peas Green, to Boil 

Potatoes, Irish, to Boil 

— Irish, Cakes 

— Irish, Chips 

— Sweet 

— Sweet, to Bake.. 

— Sweet, to Fry 

Radishes 

Rice, Southern Mode of Cooking . 

Sa lsif y, to Cook 

Slaw 

— Cold, Dressing for 

— Hot, Dressing for 

Snaps, to Boil 

Spinach 

Tomatoes, Baked 

— Raw 

Turnip Salad 



79 



PICKLES. 



Apple and Pear Pickle 

Artichoke 

Cabbage, Chopped Pickle. 

— Yellow Pickle 

Cantal* »upe Pickle 

— Sweet Pickle 

Celery Sauce 

Cherries 

— Sweet Pickle 

Chow-Chow 

— English 

Cucumber, Cut 

— Mangoes 

— Pickle 



. 88 
94 

100 
95 
94 

100 
88 
88 
98 



95 



Cucumber Sweet Pickle, Sliced. 

Damsons 

Mangoes, Dressing for Forty 

— Peach 



— Sweet Pickle 

Mustard Pickle 

Onions 

Peaches 

Pickles, to Green , . . . 

— to Make Yellow . . 

— Yellow 

Tomatoes, Green Pickle. 

— Sweet Pickle 

Walnut Pickle 



91 



85.86 
... 80 
93,97 
...87 
... 87 
...87 



PRESERVES. 



Apples, Crab 105 i Figs 

— Pippin 105 I Gooseberries. 

— to Preserve 102 

— Preserved Crab 105 

Blackberries 105 

Cantaloupe (whole) 106 

— Preserves lo6 

Cherries 106 

— Morello 112 

Citron, Preserved 108 



108 

108 

Peaches, Clingstone, to Preserve.. 107 

Pears, to Preserve 107 

— Preserved 103 

Plums, Purple, to Preserve 103 

Quince Preserve 108 

Strawberries. t< > Preserve ..104 

Watermelon Rind .109 



FRUIT JELLIES, MARMALADES, ETC. 



Apple Jelly 110 

Blackberry Jelly Ill 

Cherries, to Dry 113 

Currant Jelly Ill 

Grape, Ripe, Marmalade 112 

Lemon Jam 113 

Peaches. Brandy 116 

— Canned 115 



Peach Chips 113 

— Marmalade ' n2 

Pears, Canned 115 

Pineapple Marmalade 113 

Quince Jelly m 

Raspberry Jelly \\\ 

Tomatoes ..115 



210 



INDEX. 



WINES 
Blackberry Bounce 117 

— Syrup 117 

— Wine 110 

Cherry Shrub 117 

Currant Wine 118 



SYRUPS, ETC. 

Egg Nog 118 

— Wine 119 

Grape Wine 118 

Parsnip Wine 118 



CAKES. 

Almond Cake 130 i Ginger Snaps 

Angel Cake 135 j Gold Cake 

Apeas 155 1 

Apple Jelly Cake 147 

Best of All Cake 136 

Black Cake 122, 153 

Black Fruit Cake 119 

Black Plum Cake 121 

Caramel Cake 147 

Citron Cake 124 

Chocolate Cake 143, 145 

— Cakes 157 

Chocolate Cake, Marble 143 

.. —Filling for 146 

— Icing 146 

Cocoanut Cake 125, 130 

— Pyramids 156 

Coffee Cake 123 

Cookies 154 

— Ginger 157 

Cream Cake 150 

Crullers 155 

Cup Cake 136 

Currant Cake 123 

Custard Cake 151 

Delicious Cake 137 

— Filling for Cake 150 

Doughnuts 156 

Feather Cake 137 

Fig Cake 127, 129 

— Ribbon 128 

Fruitcake 119, 120, 121 

White 123, 124 

German Mondell Cake 124 

Ginger Bread, without Eggs 158 

— Cakes, Soft 158 



Harlequin Cake 

Ice Cream Cake 

Icing for Cake . 

— Boiled 

Imperial Cake 

Jumbles 

Lady Cake 

Lemon Butter Cake 

— Jelly Cake 

Macaroons 155, 

Marble Cake 140, 141, 

Chocolate 

Minnehaha Cake 

My Lady's Cake 

Molasses Cake 

— Jumbles 

— Pound Cake 

Newport Orange and Lemon Cake 

One, Two, Three. Four Cake 

Orange Cake 

Pearl Cake 

Pound Cake 133, 

White 

R. E. Lee Cake 

Robert Lee Jelly Cake 

Rochester Cake 

Sand Cakes 

SpiceCake 139, 

Sponge Cake 138, 

Sugar Cakes, without Eggs 

Trafalgar Cake 

Variety Cake 

Watermelon Cake 



Cup Cake 153 I W 7 hite Cake 

Pound Cake 152 I "White Mour 



Mountain Cake. 



15? 
139 
140 
148 
148 
148 
122 
155 
1:34 
132 
133 
150 
142 
143 
120 
144 
152 
158 
151 
130 
137 
131 
135 
134 
134 
132 
131 
125 
157 
140 
154 
139 
157 
156 
127 
129 
135 
149 



CREAMS, CUSTARDS, ETC. 

An Excellent Dessert 164 

Chocola te Cream 101 

Frozen Custard 159, 100 

— Oranges 163 

Ice Cream 159 

Nesselrode Pudding 101 

Peach Cream 103 



Pineapple Ice 162 

— Ice Cream 162 

Pistache Ice Cream 160 

Plumbiere 102, 103 

Strawberry Cream 160 

Water Ice 163 



JELLIES AND OTHER DESSERTS. 

Jelly, without Boiling 164, 105 

— Fruit 106 

— Orange 165 

— stock for, to Clarify 106 

— Tapioca, or Sago 165 

Lory Pop 108 

Snow Pudding 108 

Syllabub 171 

Tapioca Cream 109 

— Pudding 169 

Trifle 171 



Ambrosia 171 

Angel's Food 170 

Apple Float 171 

Bavarian Cheese 170 

Blanc-Mange 167 

— Chocolate 107 

— Custard 107 

Charlotte Russe 109 

Irish Moss 108 

Italian Cream 109 

Jelly. • 104 



INDEX 



111 



CANDIES, ETC. 



Almonds, Salt , 176 

Butter Scotch 174 

Candy 174 

— Cocoanut 173 

— Cream 174 



Caramels, Chocolate 172 

Chocolate Creams, French 172 

Nuts, to Candy 175 

Taffy, Sugar 173 



PUDDINGS, ETC. 



Boiled Pudding 184 

— Bread Pudding 185 

Cabinet Pudding ISO 

Caramel Pudding 184 

Chocolate Pudding 188 

Citron Pudding 180 

Cocoanut Pudding 181 

Cottage Pudding 182, 183 

Cracker Pudding 180 

Cream Pudding 183 

Custard Pudding 183 

Dandy Pudding 187 

Delmonico Pudding .... 188 

Dumplings, Suet, with Fruit 190 

— Suet. Pla in 189 

Fritters, Bell 189 

Grits, or Hominy Pudding 185 

Lemon Pudding 182 

Liffey Pudding 180 

Meringue Pudding 186 

Orange Pudding 182 

Orange County Pudding 185 



Pancakes 189 

Pancakes, Buttermilk 189 

Plain Pudding > 183 

Plum Ridding 176, 177, 178, 179 

Cheap 179 

English 176 

Grandmother's 177 

Risen 175 

Simple 179 

Potato, Irish, Pudding 187 

— Sweet, Pudding 186, 187 

Pumpkin Pudding 188 

Queen of all Puddings 186 

Bice Pudding 185 

Roll, Cherry 190 

Swiss Pudding 184 

Tapioca Pudding lb? 

Apple 181 

Thickened Milk Pudding 183 

Transparent Pudding 188 

Whortleberry Pudding. . , 180 



SAUCES 



Chocolate Cream, for Blanc 

Mange 192 

Sauce 191 

— Cream, for Blanc Mange 192 



Sauce, Lemon 191 

— for Plum Pudding 190 

— for Roll , 191 



PIES, ETC. 



Apple Meringue 197 

-Pie 196 

Cheese Straws, No. 1 199 

— No. 2 200 

Custard, Huckleberry 197 

— Pie 197 

Family Pie Crust 192 

Lemon Pie 198 

— Tarts 199 



Marguerites 109 

Marlborough Pie 196 

Mince Meat 193, 194, 195 

Molasses Pie 199 

Peach Pie 197 

— Dried, Pie 197 

Rhubarb Pie 198 

Sandwiches 200 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 



A Hint to Cooks 203 

Butter Making. 200 

Cleaning Clothes 204 

Cleansing Blankets 204 

Lemon Juice as a Remedy 206 

Lotion for the Hands 205 

Roaches and Ants, to Drive off . . . 206 

Soap 203 

Soda 203 



To Clean Knives 205 

To Improve Furniture 205 

To Remove Ink from Carpets 205 

To Remove Ink Spots 204 

To Remove Fruit Stains 205 

To Remove Rust from Steel 205 

To Remove Turpentine 205 

To Test the Heat of an Oven 202 

To Wash Windows 205 



