SCHOOL HYGIENE 



NEWS HOLME 



CNJ 




, / 

f! 

' \ ' 

( 

I / 



HYGIENE: 



OR 



THE LAWS OF HEALTH IN RELATION 
TO SCHOOL LIFE. 



BY 

ARTHUR NEWSHOLME. M.D., 

AND DIPLOMATE IN PUBLIC HEALTH, UNIVERSITY OF LONDON; UNIVERSITY SCHOLAR AND 

GOLD MEDALLIST IN MEDICINE; MEDICAL OFFICER OF HEALTH FOR CLAPHAM J 

MEDICAL EXAMINER OF PUPIL TEACHERS TO THE SCHOOL BOARD FOR 

LONDON; AND MEDICAL REFEREE TO THE WESTMINSTER AND 
SOUTHLANDS TRAINING COLLEGES FOR TEACHERS. 



BOSTON : 

D. C. HEATH & CO., PUBLISHERS. 
1889. 







tfl* 




PREFACE. 

THE importance of the subject here discussed must be evident 
to all who have bestowed even a cursory attention on the sub- 
ject of popular education. As a matter of fact, it has engaged 
the serious attention of School Boards and Committees, and 
been made the subject of repeated legislation by the Educa- 
tion Department. The result of all this is seen in the improved 
character of the school-buildings which are everywhere being 
erected. In these, we find that greater attention is paid, not only 
to the space demanded for each pupil, to which a few years 
ago the official legislation was almost exclusively confined, but 
educationists have come to see that lighting, warming, ventila- 
tion, and general sanitary conditions, are of prime importance 
in their bearing on the health and progress of the children 
gathered in these schools. 

Much still remains to be learnt in regard to these matters, and 
it is of the highest importance that school-managers and all who 
are concerned in the erection of school premises or what is 
perhaps equally important, the modification of already existing 
schools should be well acquainted with the principles which 
determine the sanitary condition of all school premises and 
arrangements. 

But, however healthful the sanitary conditions of school- 
premises, it is evident that the health of the school must depend 



iv Preface. 

also largely upon the routine, the distribution of work in relation 
to age, the amount of exercise and rest, and other matters 
which concern the personal treatment of the scholars. 

This branch of School Hygiene is necessarily more exclu- 
sively in the hands of the teacher, and it is therefore important 
that he should be well instructed in the general laws of health as 
applied to school-life. It is gratifying to observe that, after re- 
peated references to the subject in their Official Reports, this 
has been finally recognised by the Education Department in 
their last Syllabus for Training Colleges, where a knowledge of 
the " laws of health as applied to school premises, scholars, 
and teachers," is made an essential part of the professional 
training of teachers. 

The present manual has been written to supply accurate in- 
fermation on these two branches of School Hygiene, and it 
is hoped that it will be useful to all interested in the subject, 
and especially to those engaged in studying it in Training 
Colleges or elsewhere. 

My own official experience as Medical Officer of Health, 
and as medical referee to two Training Colleges, as well as to 
several large private schools, has frequently forced the study of 
this subject upon me, and given the opportunity of becoming 
acquainted with its practical details. The entire subject mav 
be regarded as a particular application of the general Laws o. 
Health, which I have already treated in detail in my Manual o 
Hygiene. The large circulation which this book has had, and 
its favourable reception by teachers and scientific authorities, 
encourage me to hope that the present work will be found 
equally useful and acceptable. 

ARTHUR NEWSHOLME. 
39, HIGH STREET, 
CLAPHAM, S.W e 



CONTENTS. 

PART I. SCHOOLS. 

PAGE 

CHAPTER I. SITE OF SCHOOL. 

Desiderata of Site. Level of Ground-Water. Consump- 
tion, Rheumatism, &c., from Damp Soils, Special Sus- 
ceptibility of Children Drainage of Soil. Character of 
Soil School not in Main Street. Not to be Over- 
shadowed. Allow for Playgrounds. ... ... ... 3 

CHAPTER II. CONSTRUCTION OF SCHOOL BUILDINGS. 
Foundation of School. Walls.- Style of Architecture. Inter- 
nal Wall-surfaces. Floor. Arrangement of Rooms. 
Corridors. - Staircases. Cloak-room. Playground. ... 

CHAPTER III. SCHOOL FURNITURE. 7 

Desks and Seats. Evil Effects of Long-sitting in one Pos- 
ture. Varieties of Bad Desks and Seats. Results of 
These." Distance" and " Difference." Slope of Desk. 
Height and Width of Sea*. Height of Back. Long or . 
Short Desk. Desks according to Height, not Age. Black- 
board. Pictures ... ... ... ... ... 12 

CHAPTER IV. LIGHTING OF SCHOOL-ROOMS. 
Evil Effects of Deficient Light. Amount of Window-area 
required. Direction of Light. Artificial Lighting ... 17 

CHAPTER V. GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF VENTILATION. 
Physiology of Respiration. Tests for Impurity of Air. 
Effects of Breathing Impure Air. Effect on Mental 
Powers. Temperature of Air required. Dryness of Air. 
Amount of Air required. Amount of Floor Space ... 2fi 

CHAPTER VI. NATURAL VENTILATION. 

Rules Respecting Ventilation. Natural and Artificial Ven- 
tilation. Ventilation through Window, Wall, Chimney, 
Ceiling. ... ... ... .. ... ... 29 

CHAPTER VII. VENTILATION AND WARMING. 

Difficulties of Successful Ventilation by Warm Air. Open 
Fire-place. Heating by Gas. Closed Stoves. Central 
System of Heating. Hot Air Furnaces. Steam Appara- 
tus. Hot Water Apparatus. Entrance Flues and Extrac- 
tion Shafts. The Bridgeport System ... ... 36 

CHAPTER VIII. DRAINAGE ARRANGEMENTS. 
Lavatories, Urinals. Water-closets. Soil-pipe. Drains. 
Earth-closets ... ... ... ... ... ... 46 



vi Contents. 

PART II. SCHOLARS. 

PAGE 

CHAPTER IX. MENTAL EXERCISE. 

Full Scope of Education. Quantity and Quality of Brain. 
The Brain a Compound Organ. Functional Habits of 
Brain Blood Supply. Sensory and Muscular Education 
of Brain ... ... ... ... ... ... 57 

CHAPTER X. EXCESSIVE MENTAL EXERCISE. 

Symptoms and Effects of Brain-forcing. The " Cram " Sys- 
tem. Causes of Over-strain. Home- Lessons. Badly-ar- 
ranged Work. Importance of Technical Instruction. 
Good and Bad Examinations. Consumption from Over- 
work. -Punishments ... ... ... ... ... 62 

CHAPTER XI. AGE AND SEX IN RELATION TO SCHOOL 
WORK. 

Duration of School-work at various Ages. Statistics of 
Children attending School at various Ages. Growth and 
Development in Relation to School- work. Weight and 
Size of Children. Lhart of Growth of Children. Sex in 
Education. Character of Education in Relation to Sex. 70 

CHAPTER XII. MUSCULAR EXERCISE AND RECREATION. 
Analogy between Mental and Muscular Exercise. Influence 
of Exercise on the System. Influence on the Brain. Ex- 
cessive Exercise. Deficient Exercise. Rules for Exer- 
cise. Forms of Exercise. Gymnastics. Calisthenics ... 83 

CHAPTER XIII. REST AND SLEEP. 

Law of Rest and Action. Partial Rest Complete Rest. 
Duration of Sleep. Rules respecting Sleep. School Dor- 
mitories ... ... ... ... ... ... 91 

CHAPTER XIV. CHILDREN'S DIET. 

Quantity and Quality of Food. Food required for Growth. 
Relation of Food to Work. Frequency of Under-feed- 
ing. Amount of Food Required. School Dietaries. 
Water at School. ... ... ... ... 95 

CHAPTER XV. CHILDREN'S DRESS. 

Amount of Clothing Required. Relation of Clothing to 
Food The Hardening Process. Distribution of Cloth- 
ing. Rules respecting Clothing ... ... 99 

CHAPTER XVI. BATHS AND BATHING. 

Necessity for Cleanliness. School Baths and Swimming ... 102 
CHAPTER XVII. EYESIGHT IN RELATION TO SCHOOL LIFE. 

Structure of the Eye. Causation of Long and Short Sight. 
Use of Eyes for Near Objects. Inadequate Light. Badly 
Printed Books. Fine Needlework. Influence of General 
Health on Eyesight. ... .... ... ... ... 104 



Contents. vii 

PAGE 

CHAPTER XVI II. -COMMUNICABLE DISEASES IN SCHOOLS. 
Moral Duty of Parents and Medical Men. Symptoms of On- 
set of Infectious Diseases. Rules for Guidance of Teach- 
ers. Duration of Infection. Isolation of Healthy Members 
of Household. Diseases from Insanitary Schools. Ques- 
tion of Closing Schools for Epidemics. Management of 
Infectious Diseases in Boarding Schools. Other Commu- 
nicable Diseases. Ringworm. Itch. .. ... ... 116 

CHAPTER XIX. SCHOOL ACCIDENTS. 
Importance of First Aid. Fainting. Fits. Suffocation. 
Drowning. Foreign Bodies. Stings and Bites. 
Wounds. Haemorrhage. Nose Bleeding and Spitting of 
Blood. Fractures. Dislocations. Sprains. Contu- 
sions. Concussion. Football. ... ... ... ... 131 

INDEX ... ... ... 141 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



. PAGE 

1 Diagram of foundation and damp-proof course ... 8 

2 Diagram of desk and seat ... ... ... ... 15 

3 Ventilating gas-pendant ... ... ... ... 20 

4 Ventilation by hinged window ... ... ... 31 

5 Ventilation between window-sashes ... ... ... 32 

6 Ventilation by Tobin's tube and exit-shaft from centre 33 

flower of ceiling ... 

7 Sheringham's ventilator ... ... ... ... 33 

8 Boyle's mica flap ventilator ... ... ... ... 34 

9 Slow combustion ventilating-stove ... ... ... 38 

10 The Calorigen stove... ... ... ... ... 39 

11 Closed stove arranged to warm incoming fresh air ... 41 

12 Lavatory wash-basin... ... ... ... ... 47 

13 Pan-closet with D trap beneath ... ... ... 48 

14 An improved valveless closet ... ... ... 49 

15 A sanitary valve-closet ... ... ... ... 50 

16 Section of disconnecting chamber for school-drain ... 51 

17 Iron cover to disconnecting chamber ... ... 52 

18 Chart of height and weight from birth to 25 years of age 79 

19 Chair giving complete spinal support ... ... 87 

20 Vertical section of the eyeball ... ... ... 105 

21 Diagram showing effect of biconvex lens on rays of light 106 

22 Section of hypermetropic eye ... ... ... 107 

23 Section of myopic eye ... ... ... ... 109 

24 Chart showing prevalence of near-sight and far- sight 

at different ages ... 

25 The Itch Insect 

26 A burrow tormed by the Itch Insect in epidermis ... 126 

27 Ringworm ... ... ... ... ... ... 128 

28 The inspiratory movement in artificial respiration ... 133 

29 The expiratory movement in artificial respiration ... 134 



PART I. 

SCHOOLS. 






SCHOOL HYGIENE. 



CHAPTER I. 

SITE OF SCHOOL. 

Desiderata of Site. Level of Ground-WaterConsumption, 
Rheumatism, &*c. t from damp Soils. Special Susceptibility of 
Children. Drainage of Soil Character of SoiL School not in 
Main Street. Not to be Overshadowed. Allow for Play- 
grounds. 

FREQUENTLY no choice can be exercised as to the site of a 
school. The school already exists, and must be adapted as 
best can be for its purposes. Or, again, the site is determined 
by arbitrary and inevitable circumstances, such as the question 
of expense of ground, central position for the children, &c. 

In all cases where a choice is possible, the following require- 
ments should be carefully fulfilled ; and where an unsuitable 
site has already been occupied, it should be brought as far as 
possible in accord with the conditions to be named. 

(i.) The Level of the Ground or Subsoil Water must be 
carefully ascertained. Every soil contains water at a certain level 
below its surface, the depth of which can be easily ascertained by 

3 B 2 



4 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

finding the height of the water in the nearest shallow well. The 
basement-floor should be at least three feet above the highest 
level of the ground-water. A soil in which the ground-water is 
usually low, but liable to sudden variations in level, is less health- 
ful than one in which the water is somewhat near the surface, 
but without great alternations. The close relationship of Con- 
sumption to excessive moisture of soil has been clearly demon- 
strated in England by Dr. Buchanan, and in America by Dr. 
Bowditch, of Boston. 

Rheumatism, likewise, is favoured by damp and ill-drained 
sites. 

When a damp soil contains decomposing vegetable matters, 
under the influence of the warmth of late summer and autumn 
months, malarious diseases are liable to be produced. 

Ague, the type of malarious diseases, was formerly prevalent 
in southern New England, around New York City, and many 
parts of New Jersey. Improved drainage, and the conse- 
quent increased dryness of soil, have, however, almost en- 
tirely abolished it. Diphtheria, again, seems to be connected 
in its origin with a damp soil, though, in this case, a defective 
condition of sewerage is generally associated with the damp- 
ness. 

In connection with all these conditions, children are much 
more prone to suffer than adults. Their resisting powers are 
smaller, and they sooner fall victims to the results of bad 
hygienic conditions. 

(2.) Drainage of Soil. No matter how dry may be the 
natural condition of a soil, a site without means of drainage 
should not be accepted at any price. Even a clay soil may be 
made comparatively warm and dry by means of brick or 
perforated earthenware pipes. These should preferably not 
run into any part of the sewerage system, but into the nearest 
water-course. If it is necessary to join them with a sewer, 



SITE OF SCHOOL. 5 

their contents should not pass directly into it, but into a 
disconnecting trap. 

(3.) Character of the Soil. " Made " soils, often consisting 
of the refuse and garbage collected from dust bins, should be 
carefully avoided. The gradual putrefaction of such organic 
matters, leads to the production of effluvia, which mount 
into the school-rooms, and may develope diphtheria and 
other diseases. Sandy, or coarse gravel soils are to be preferred. 
Clay soils are cold and retentive of moisture, unless very 
well drained. 

(4.) Relation of Site to surrounding Objects. The neighbour- 
hood of stagnant pools or marshy ground is to be studiously 
avoided, as it is open to the dangers which are necessarily 
associated with the slow putrefaction of organic matters. The 
vicinity of any factory, or other establishment liable to 
poison the air with offensive effluvia, should likewise be 
avoided. 

India-rubber works, tar-yards, bone-boiling and soap- 
making establishments are particularly objectionable. The 
neighbourhood of gas-works is objectionable in a minor 
degree. If the neighbourhood of a factory or workshop is 
associated with the noise of machinery, serious interference 
with school-work may result. 

Position in a main street is by no means always advisable, 
Apart from the noise which interferes with attention to school- 
work, there is more danger of children being run over while 
hurrying from school, than if the exft is in a side street. Prox- 
imity to foundries, railway stations, markets, or stables is un- 
desirable. The close neighbourhood of trees, except to north 
or east, is to be deprecated, and then they should not be suf- 
ficiently near to impede the free entrance of light or air. The 
close vicinity of higher buildings is for similar reasons objec- 
tionable. 






6 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

The site should be sufficiently extensive to allow for play- 
grounds. This is not only necessary for recreation, but it pre- 
vents to some extent the overshadowing of surrounding build- 
ings. At least two adjoining sides of the school should 
be freely exposed to light and air, and at a distance of 
not less than 60 feet from any other building. 



CHAPTER II. 

CONSTRUCTION OF THE SCHOOL BUILDINGS. 

Foundation of School Walls. Stvle of Architecture. Internal 
Wall-surfaces. Floor. Arrangement of Rooms. Corridors. 
Staircases. Cloak-room. Playground. 

IT is most convenient to discuss first the general construction 
and arrangement of school buildings, leaving the subjects of 
lighting, ventilation, warming, and drainage to later chapters. 

The School Foundation requires to be solid and substantial 
and made as nearly as possible impervious both to moisture 
and air, in order to cut off the ground-air, which is otherwise 
drawn into heated rooms, and may contain the germs of diph- 
theria, enteric fever, or some other disease. Impervious 
concrete, hydraulic cement, asphalted brick, or sheet-lead are 
among the best materials for this purpose. The impervious 
material should reach on each side at least six inches beyond 
the frontage of the wall. (Fig. i.) 

The W;ills should likewise have special arrangements for 
preventing the rise of damp. Two layers of roofing slate set 
in cement, or a layer of good asphalte, or a course of perforated 
glazed tiles, form a good damp-proof course. When we re- 
member that a common brick will absorb a pint of water, and 
that moisture rises along the bricks of a building, just as it 
7 



8 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

would run up a series of lumps of sugar arranged on the top of 
eacn other, the importance of this matter will be realised. 




FIG. i. Diagram showing Foundation and Damp-proof Course, 
a. Concrete Foundation. I. Damp-proof Course 

The Style of Architecture may be regulated according to local 
circumstances, but should be such as not to be an offence to 
the eye, or out of harmony with its environment. Expensive 
ornamentation should never be indulged at the expense of 
efficient ventilating or warming apparatus. 

The Internal Will surfaces should not be papered, as they 
cannot then be frequently cleansed. If simply white-washed 
or colour-washed, the plaster of the room for a time serves to 
neutralise the carbonic acid from respiration, but afterwards 
this action ceases, and the walls become saturated with volatile 
organic matters from respiration, &c., which tend to maintain 
the atmosphere in an impure condition, even though fresh air 



CONSTRUCTION OF THE SCHOOL BUILDINGS. 9 

is admitted. Washable distempers are very good, and they 
present the advantage that their colouring matter does not rub 
off on the clothes. 

It is preferable to have impervious polished walls, made thus 
by painting, or by polished cement, or tiles. These can be 
frequently washed, and thus the atmosphere kept sweet and 
pure If the walls are coloured, the tints should be cream or 
light brown, or a pale blue or green. 

The wainscoting should be four to five feet high. All pro- 
jections which can harbour dust should be as far as possible 
abolished. Thus cornices are objectionable, and the tops of 
doors and windows should be levelled off. 

The Floor of the school-room should be constructed of 
narrow planks, with dovetailed or matched joints. The wood 
should be close-grained and hard, so as not easily to splinter. 
Wood floors are warmer than asphalte or brick. The floor 
may be washed dining the school recess, but must be well 
dried. A better plan is to have it beeswaxed and polished at 
intervals : it then only requires sweeping each day. 

The Floof Plan should be carefully devised. A form of 
building in which a central corridor is surrounded by class- 
rooms on three or four sides is not advisable, as it does not 
allow a free circulation of air. A better arrangement is to have 
rooms on only one side of a corridor, so that the chief light comes 
from one side of the rooms. The best shape for school-rooms 
is an oblong, the sides of which bear the proportion of about 
4 to 3, each room allowing 150 cubic feet per pupil, of which 
at least 15 square feet should be floor-space. The minimum 
Government requirement in England is 80 cubic feet per 
pupil, not less than 8 square feet of which must be allowed for 
floor-space. In common lodging-houses, if the cubic space 
allowed per individual is below 300 cubic feet, the proprietor 
is liable to prosecution. We are therefore not overstating the 



10 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

matter in saying that 150 cubic feet per pupil is desirable in a 
school. 

Corridors should be large, airy, and well lit. If they are 
cramped for space, or have not an abundance of direct light 
the ventilation of the school is sure to suffer. 

Staircases should be fire -proof, and so situated that, in case 
of fire, there is easy access to them. There should be two 
separate flights of stairs, neither of which should be directly 
opposite a door. A landing should break the stairway about- 
every 15 steps, in order to avoid falls from a great height. 
The door should open outward toward the street, to prevent 2 
block in case of panic, and the doorway should always be 
wider than the stair which leads to it. Spiral stairs 
without landings and having tapered steps are most objec 
tionable. 

Cloak-rooms should be provided in every public school, the 
children's outer clothing and umbrellas never being allowed in 
the school-room. Each child should have a separate numbered 
place for hanging his outdoor costume. By this means the 
danger of wetting one another's clothes and of infection is 
minimised. 

There should be a system of umbrella-drainage, channels 
communicating with all the compartments, to carry the drip- 
pings straight out of the school. A system of hot-water or 
hot-air pipes should run under all the compartments, so as 
to subject each coat, hat, and umbrella to a current of hot air 
and dry them. To facilitate rapid and orderly assembly and 
dismissal, it is desirable that there should be a separate cloak- 
room for each 120 to 150 scholars, contiguous to the respective 
class-rooms. It should be well ventilated to carry off the 
vapour produced by wet clothing. 

The Playground should be as large as circumstances will 
allow. If possible, it should not be on the north or east side 



CONSTRUCTION OF THE SCHOOL BUILDINGS. II 

of the school, the south or west being preferred. A por- 
tion of it should be covered, especially in the case of infant- 
schools. This mny i e obtained by having a light shed, open 
at one side, or, if ground is expensive, by raising the school 
on a low story, eight to nine feet high, and using the ground 
underneath as a covered playground. Some of the recently 
built public schoolhouses in England have flat roofs for play- 
ground purposes. If due precautions are taken to prevent 
the possibility of accidents, this plan may be very serviceable 
where economy of space is essential. 



CHAPTER III. 
SCHOOL FURNITURE. 

Desks and Seats. Evil results of long-sitting in one fiosture.~ 
Varieties of bad Desks and Seats. Effects of these. "Distance* 
and " Dijference." -Slope of Desk. -Height and Width of 
Seat. Height of Back. Long or Short Desk. Desks accord- 
ing to Height, not Age. Blackboard. Pictures. 

DESKS AND SEATS are the most important articles of school 
furniture, and it is unfortunate that authorities on this subject 
are not agreed as to their best form. 

It is well to remember at the outset that no form of desk or 
seat will obviate the evils of long continuance in any one 
position. This leads to imperfect expansion of the lungs, 
relaxation of muscles, and a tendency to drooping shoulders, 
if not actually to a twist in the spinal column. A few moments' 
interval during a writing lesson, devoted to arm exercises, will 
be extremely beneficial in maintaining proper postures. 

Various bad forms of DESK are met with. The desk may be 
too high, in which case, during writing,, one shoulder is unduly 
raised in order to rest the arm on the desk, and a lateral twist of 
the spine results, which, in time, tends to become persistent. 
If the desk is too low, the scholar has to bend too far over his 
work. A forward stoop and round shoulders are produced ; 
the head becomes congested from being held so low, and there 
is a strong tendency for the development of near-sightedness. 
(See Chapter XVII.) 

12 



SCHOOL FURNITURE. 13 

A fiat desk is particularly bad, necessitating a cramped 
position, and interference with free respiration. 

If the desk is too far from the seaf, a forward stoop, with 
round shoulders, flat chest, and injury to the eyes, is produced. 

SEATS, again, may be badly placed. If the seat is too high, the 
feet swing, the vessels and nerves at the back of the legs are 
compressed, and the sensation of " pins and needles " is pro- 
duced. This is also very apt to occur if, as is commonly the 
case, the seat is too narrow to support the whole length of the 
thigh. If too low, the thighs are bent up towards the body, 
and a cramped position is produced. If without a back-rest, 
or with an improperly adapted back-rest, the pupil tends to lean 
forward on the desk, and thus prevent free expansion of the 
lungs. 

Ill Effects of bad Desks and Seats. According to Eulenberg, 
a distinguished German orthopaedic surgeon, 90 per cent, of 
curvatures of spine not caused by actual bone-disease, are 
developed during school life. Bad postures during school 
work, and especially the twisted position, with the left arm resting 
on the desk during writing lessons, contribute considerably 
to the production of such curvatures. The effects are much 
more likely to be produced if desk and seat are not properly 
adapted to each other, and to the size of the pupil. An upright 
position in writing is indispensable, and the left elbow should 
not be allowed to rest high up on the desk. Writing should 
be continued for only a few minutes in infant and junior classes, 
and in higher classes not longer than half-an-hour, without 
intermission. 

The cramped positions induced by defective desks and 
seats, not only favour the production of a twisted spine, but 
also round shoulders and flat chest, tl us impeding the 
functions of heart and lungs. The habit of leaning forward 
close over the copy-book or reading-book, may produce short- 



14 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

sightedness ; and this in its turn increases the necessity for the 
improper postures. Thus a vicious circle is entered, each 
evil mutually intensifying the other. 

Proper Desks and Seats should be accurately adapted to 
each other. The most important points to ascertain are the 
" Distance," /".*., the distance between the edge of the seat 
and a perpendicular line dropped from the edge of the desk ; 
the " Difference," i.e., the difference between the height of seat 
and desk ; and the slope of the desk. (Fig. 2.) 

The Distance should, for writing purposes, equal zero, the 
plumb line from the desk grazing the edge of the seat, or it 
should be i negative quantity. For other purposes the distance 
should equal zero or a small positive quantity. This involves 
having a moveable seat, unless chairs are used, which is in- 
advisable in boys' schools. Or, the same end may be attained 
by using a desk so constructed that it can be drawn horizontally 
backward, so as to enable the scholar to write while sitting 
erect, or resting his back against the back of the seat. When 
the scholar is too far away from the desk, he either bends for- 
ward into an unnatural position, or glides too far forward on his 
seat, and occupies an unsteady position. 

The Difference between height of seat and desk should not 
be such that the shoulders are painfully screwed up in writing, 
or, on the other hand, the pupil is obliged to lean forward in 
order to write or read. It is recommended that it should equal 
the length of the fore-arm, or about one-sixth the height 
of the scholar (Robson), in which case it will be found that 
the under-part of the forearm will rest comfortably on the 
desk-top. 

The Slope of the Desk should be capable of change, the 
proper angle being about 30 for writing and 40-45 for 
reading. 

The Height oj the Se at should correspond to the length of 



SCHOOL FURNITURE. 

the scholar's leg from sole of foot to knee, in order that there 
may be no stretching of muscles. Its width should not be 
under eight inches. 

There should be a back to the seat, which need not be more 
than a piece of wood 3 inches broad, slightly tilted back, and 
so placed as to support the back just below the shoulder 
blades. In this way the movements are not interfered with, 
while the spine receives steady support. Liebreich gives the 
rule that the top of the back of the seat should be an inch 
lower than the edge of the desk for boys, and an inch higher 
than the same point for girls. 




FIG. 2.- -Diagram of Desk and Seat. 

a b c, angle of 30 for writing, a' b c, angle of 45 for read'ng ; b d=l height 
of scholar; ef^.\. least 8 inches; e ^=length of schol ir's leg from knee 
to sole of foot ; d enol more than i inch for reading, and zero for writing, 
and preferably zero for both, b d" Difference." de=" Distance." 



Long desks are, as a rule, objectionable : children tend to 
sit with the left arm high up on the desk, in order to prevent 
copying by their neighbours, and thus produce twisting of 
their spines. The same objection holds against dual desks to 



1 6 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

a less extent, but they possess the advantage of not spreading 
out the children so much as single desks, and thus economise 
the teacher's voice. They also suffice for three, when listening 
to a lesson. 

It is a common fault to furnish a room with desks of only 
one size. There should be three sizes of desks in each large 
class room, as there may be great diversity of height among 
children differing only two or three years in age. A foot-rest 
should always be provided for children varying considerably 
from the usual stature. 

Other articles of school furniture require little notice. 

The Black Board should be large. It should be so placed 
as to receive a good light, and its surface should be dull. The 
windows of the school-room should not be on the same wall as 
the black board, as otherwise the children's eyes are dazzled 
in looking at the board. 

Pictures in schools have a great educational value. None 
are so easily affe ted and impressed by their surroundings 
as children. Hence the importance of surrounding them with 
beauties of form and colour, thus fostering their taste, while 
the daily discipline of school life promotes habits of order. A 
common fault to be avoided is having the pictures too small. 



CHAPTER IV. 

LIGHTING OF SCHOOL-ROOMS. 

Evil Effects of Deficient Light. Amount of Window-area 
required. Direction of Light. Artificial Lighting. 

THE depressing effects of a dull day, which largely depend 
3n the absence of direct sunlight, are sufficiently known to all. 
Light and happiness seem necessarily associated, and are even 
used as synonymous in the well-known verse " Light is sown 
for the righteous, and gladness for the upright in heart." 

The best way to stop a canary singing is to cover his cage 
with a shade ; and the bright spirits of children are similarly 
affected by dull dark school-rooms. The mental effect of 
deficient light is accompanied by an actual physical effect. 
Plants grown in the dark are weakly and white ; and human 
beings under similar conditions become pale and comparatively 
bloodless (anaemic). "Where the light cannot come, the 
doctor must," is a proverb expressing this truth in a pithy 
form. The attendance in a badly-lit school is always less 
regular than in a cheerful well-lit school. 

Small windows, often half shaded by blinds, and seldom as 
clean as they might be, are common defects in our schools. 
The furniture and paints, again, are not uncommonly daik- 
coloured, which increases the general gloom. Varnishing 
the walls greatly improves the lighting. Not only is a badly- 
17 c 



l8 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

lit room injurious in itself, but it leads to an increased use of 
lamps or gas, thus bringing into action another source of 
impurity. 

The Window Area required in a school-room is variously 
stated as from one-fourth to one-tenth of the floor-area of the 
room. The plan recommended by R. Morris is to multiply 
the length, breadth, and height of the room together, and take 
the square root of this for the area of the windows. 

It is evident that the amount of window-area required will 
vary with external conditions. Thus, in towns more should be 
allowed than in the country, and more in a narrow street than 
where there is an uninterrupted outlook. Also, more is 
required in the lower than the higher stories. A greater 
amount of light is obtainable from skylights than from vertical 
windows. 

Windows should always reach nearly to the ceiling, as 
the best light comes from the highest point, and much 
of the cheerfulness of a school-room depends on the amount 
of sky which is visible. Plate glass is preferable, being 
thicker, and allowing less escape of heat. Double windows 
check cold draughts and economise heat. They may also 
be made to materially help natural ventilation, by allowing 
an upward current between them into the room. Ground 
glass windows prevent glare. If the access of light is barred 
by an opposite wall, this may be painted or white-washed, 
and the use of " Daylight Reflectors" is sometimes very 
advantageous. 

South windows admit more light than any other; but if any 
part of the lighting is from the roofs, do not let the skylight 
slope to the south or west, as the heat and light will be intoler- 
able in hot weather, 

The Direction of the Light is a matter of great importance. 



LIGHTING OF SCHOOL-ROOMS. 19 

The worst light is that which comes from windows facing 
the scholars. It throws the teacher's face into the shade, 
and the scholars' books are similarly affected. A light 
from behind obliges the scholar to sit in a twisted position, in 
order that his book may not be in the shade. Light from 
both right and left throws a double set of shadows, unless the 
amount of illumination from one side (which ought to be 
the left) is much greater than from the opposite side. If 
this condition is fulfilled, there is no serious objection to 
cross-lighting, and it greatly facilitates ventilation. The 
best light is that which comes directly from the left, and 
does not necessitate any other than an.erect posture in order 
that it may fall directly on the desk. The lower panes of 
windows are of comparatively little use in admitting light for 
study; the light comes too horizontally, and there is more 
danger of dazzling the eyes. 

A semicircular arrangement of the seats in a room, is dis- 
advantageous for lighting purposes. There should be a gang- 
way near the left-hand windows, to prevent the children nearest 
them being in the shade. 

Excess of Light'vs much mo r e easily remedied than a defi- 
ciency. Inside rolling slat-blinds answer the purpose, but 
external Venetian or other blinds are much more effectual in 
keeping out the heat of the sun. 

Artificial Lighting is only exceptionally required in day- 
schools ; and the corridors should be so constructed as not to 
require its aid. 

The electric light possesses great sanitary advantages in its 
freedom from injurious products of combustion, and in the 
fact that it does not harm books and paintings. 

Gas is the usual source of artificial light. As ordinarily 
employed, it is pernicious, because it dries the air, produces 
heat out of all proportion to the light, and loads the air with 

C 2 



20 



SCHOOL HYGIENE. 



noxious gases. It should never be allowed in a school-room, 
unless contained in a cylinder which carries off the products of 
combustion, either directly to the external air (Fig. 3), or into 
the chimney-flue. It may in this way be so arranged as to 
form a valuable aid to ventilation. 




FIG. 3. Ventilating Gas Pendant. 






CHAPTER V. 
GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF VENTILATION. 

Physiology of Respiration. Tests for Impurity of Air. Effects 
of Breathing Impure Air. Effects on Mental Powers. Tem- 
perature of Air Required. Dry ness of Air, Amount of Air 
Required. Amount of Floor Space. 

IT has been well said that " our own breath is our greatest 
enemy," and the problem of a healthful school-room is to a 
large extent solved by the application of measures for removing 
this, and furnishing an abundant supply of pure air, without 
the production of perceptible draughts. 

A knowledge of the Physiology of Respiration is necessary 
before the importance of ventilation can be realised, and the 
amount of fresh air required can be ascertained. The essential 
element in the atmosphere is oxygen, a gas which is diluted 
by four times its volume of nitrogen, an innocent gas without 
any active properties. The oxygen of air is absolutely 
essential for the continuance of all forms of animal life. By 
means of our lungs, it is furnished to the system, and at the 
same time carbonic acid gas and other impurities are eliminated. 

The windpipe carrying air down to the lungs branches 
repeatedly, the ultimate minute branches ending in little 
cavities, called air-cells, of which there are probably five or six 
millions, with an aggregate area of ten to twenty square feet. 
This large area is separated only by extremely delicate walls 

21 



22 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

(so delicate as to be hardly recognisable) from the blood 
circulating in the lungs ; and an interchange is rapidly 
effected, by which the blood becomes oxygenated and at the 
same time parts with its impurities. Now the heart is con- 
tracting from 60 to 70 times every minute, at each contraction 
driving the blood to every part of the body, including the 
lungs ; and it is found that the whole blood passes through the 
lungs, and is subjected to this purifying influence nearly twice 
every minute. 

The air expired differs from that inspired in sevenal impor- 
tant particulars. In the first place, it has become warmer^ 
having been warmed by its contact with the warm blood which 
is flowing through the lungs. In the next place, it is moister, a 
large amount of water-vapour being given off. By the lungs 
and skin conjointly, from 26 to 40 ounces of water pass off in 
24 hours. Five hundred children assembled in one room 
would, in the course of two hours, give off as vapour about 
four gallons of water, which would be visible in the clouding of 
windows and walls, unless the room were well ventilated. 

In the third place, expired air contains four per cent, less 
oxygen and over four per cent, more carbonic acid than 
that inspired. Ordinary out-door air contains four parts of 
carbonic acid in 10,000 of air, but in expired air this is in- 
creased to 400 parts. Healthy adults exhale about 14*4 cubic 
feet of carbonic acid per day. Children are said to produce 
less than this, but as their vital processes are more rapid than 
those of adults, the difference is not so great as might be 
expected. Five hundred children assembled in one room 
would in two hours produce as much carbonic acid as is 
equivalent to the solid charcoal or carbon contained in 2olbs 
of coal. 

In the last place, expired air contains in suspension con- 
siderable volatile organic matter, of a highly putrefiable nature. 



FERAL PRINCIPLES OF VENTILATION. 

This is invisible under ordinary circumstances, but is none the 
less foul and offensive. 

The carbonic acid in expired air is far from being harmless, 
but it is innocent as compared with these organic particles 
which emanate from our own bodies. When the latter are 
not removed by ventilation, they may be rebreathed, and thus 
instead of the blood being purified twice each minute, it may 
be gradually vitiated and poisoned. Imagine the condition of 
a child who had no bath for six months ; but uncleanliness of 
the skin is surely of less importance than of the delicate 
membrane lining the lungs ! Besides, there is no such ready 
entrance into the blood from the skin as from the lungs. 

If we were asked to drink foul water or eat decomposing 
food, we should at once refuse, but we frequently inhale 
air which is fouler than the dirtiest ditch-water, and nearly as 
offensive as a rotten egg ; while our children are crowded in 
school-rooms in which they are forced repeatedly to breathe 
cheir own and other children's breaths, to the sad injury of 
their health. 

lestsfor Impurity of Air. Perhaps one of the best tests for 
respiratory impurities, is by the sense of smell. It must be 
exercised, however, after a few minutes' stay in the outer air, as 
no sense is more quickly blunted than that of smell. On 
entering a room of which the atmosphere is impure, it will be 
found perceptibly stuffy if the carbonic acid in- the air reaches 
6 parts in 10,000, and the degree of stuffiness or closeness is a 
very fair indication of the amount of impurity present. When 
the amount of carbonic acid reaches 10 parts in 10,000, the 
room is extremely close. 

A simple chemical test to ascertain if the carbonic acid 
amounts to 6 parts in io,oco of air, is the following : Procure 
a bottle holding ioi fluid ounces, blow the air of the room 
into it by means of a bellows, pour in half-an-ounce of lime- 



24 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

water, and after corking tightly, shake the bottle well for two 
or three minutes. If no visible milkiness is produced (by the 
union of carbonic acid and lime forming chalk), then the 
amount of carbonic acid in the room is below 6 parts in 10,000. 

There is no simple test for the organic impurities in air, 
which are really more important, because more pernicious, than 
the carbonic acid ; but inasmuch as the carbonic acid is nearly 
always in exact proportion to the amount of organic matter, 
the test for the former answers equally well for the latter. 

This test, combined with the sense of smell on coming direct 
from the external air, gives most reliable indications, which 
should never be neglected. 

Non-Respiratory Impurities of Air. Carbonic Oxide Gas is 
produced in furnaces and stoves, and when it obtains entrance 
into a room, giddiness, headache, and depression of the 
general health are the result. Indeed, this gas is poisonous in 
much smaller quantities, and much more quickly than the 
closely-allied compound carbonic acid. 

The use of coal-gas for lighting purposes is another common 
source of polluted atmosphere. By the combustion of i cubic 
foot of coal-gas, 2 cubic feet of carbonic acid are produced, and 
a considerable amount of sulphurous acid. A medium gas 
burner burns 3 cubic feet of gas per hour, and therefore produces 
as much carbonic acid as 10 individuals (6 cubic feet for one 
gas-burner as compared with 6 cubic feet for one individual). 

Effects of Breathing Impure Air. The evil effects produced 
by expired air in a concentrated condition have been unhappily 
proved in a few well-known instances. In the Black Hole at 
Calcutta, 146 persons were confined in a space 18 feet every 
way, with two small windows on one side. Next morning 123 
were found dead, and the remaining 23 were very ill. It mu^t 
not be supposed, however, that no ill results follow a com- 
paratively small degree of pollution, because these results are 



GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF VENTILATION. * 25 

not immediately apparent. A general lowering of strength and 
vigour is produced, and a greater proneness to fall victim to 
respiratory and other diseases. The drowsiness and languof so 
frequently noticeable in school-children are, to the intelligent 
teacher, not an indication of wilful inattention, but of the 
necessity for a purer air. Yawning, again, is a cry of the 
nervous system for purer blood, i.e., for blood containing more 
oxygen and less effete matters. 

It is in the highest degree unfair to expect the brains of 
children to be in active exercise of their functions, while they 
are provided with blood which is vitiated by respiratory 
impurities, and are thus kept in a species of mental fog. 

Children are especially susceptible to the dangers resulting 
from impure air. They are necessarily somewhat closely 
massed together, and the organic matters hanging about the 
room serve as a favourable soil for the propagation and 
development of infectious diseases, which in a pure air would 
soon lose their vitality. In this way diphtheria, scarlet fever, 
and like diseases are not uncommonly propagated at school. 
Tubercular consumption, again, has been clearly shown to be 
greatly favoured by over-crowding, and it is not impossible 
that its propagation from one child to another under such 
conditions does sometimes occur. In the case of rabbits and 
guinea-pigs, it is found that when they are kept in a small, 
close apartment for three months, tubercular disease is produced, 
and dogs under similar circumstances become consumptive. 

Temperature of Air required. The external temperature 
varies greatly with the season, and even at different parts of 
the same day. In Philadelphia the averages of ten years 
show that the mean temperature in the winter months is 33.2 
Fahr., in spring 51.9, in summer 76.1, in autumn 55. 7. Now, 
the admission of air at 76 Fahr. makes a room uncomfortably 
warm, while the temperature of 32 could hardly be borne by 



26 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

the most robust of children. In one case, the entering ail 
may with advantage be cooled ; in the other, it must be warmed. 

The temperature of each class-room should vary between 
65 and 70 Fahr. In infant-schools the upper limit of 70 is 
preferable. Possibly a little higher than this would do no 
harm, but the heat-generating powers of the body are thus 
lowered, and the air is more likely to be vitiated. 

Where hot-air or hot-water apparatus is the source of heat, 
a common experience is to begin the day in school with a 
temperature of 60 ; but in a few hours, owing to deficient exit 
of impure air, and to the heat produced by the children them- 
selves, t-'ie temperature has reached 70 or even 80 without 
being noticed, and now the children feel no warmer than when 
the thermometer stood at 60. The excessive heat has pro- 
duced a general languor of the circulation, and a dilated 
condition of the cutaneous blood-vessels, leading to a general 
lack of tone and vigour. For a similar reason the mental 
powers flag, and sleepiness is induced. Persons coming into 
the room from out-of-doors find the atmosphere intolerable, 
but the occupaats, unfortunately, cannot judge for themselves. 
It is important that thermometers should be placed in con- 
spicuous places in rooms (remote from the point of entry of 
hot air), and that their indication should be hourly ascertained. 
The remedy for a hot and close room is not to stop the further 
entry of warm fresh air, but to secure a freer escape of hot 
impure air. 

Children, in the perspiring and low-toned condition produced 
by an over-heated room, are allowed to rush out into the cold 
corridors or offices of the school ; and it is little wonder that 
quinsy, croup, bronchitis, and other troubles are frequently 
induced. The use of an alarm-thermometer, which would 
ring a bell as long as the temperature remained above 70, 
would be very valuable.* 



GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF VENTILATION. 27 

Dryness of Air. All air contains water in a gaseous con- 
dition, and the hotter the air the more water it will contain 
before the point of saturation is reached. For every increase 
of 27 in temperature, air doubles its capacity for holding water. 
The warm air supplied to school-rooms from heating appliances 
is often very dry. It then tends to abstract moisture from the 
skin and lungs, and produce a dry feverish condition, which 
is frequently noticeable in rooms heated by furnace or stove. 
A pail of water standing in the room, near the source of heat, 
helps to prevent this. It is doubtful whether, in many cases, 
the effects ascribed to dryness of air are not really due to 
escape of the products of combustion, such as carbonic oxide 
and sulphurous acid. 

Amount of Air Required. The limit of impurity of air 
beyond which it becomes perceptibly stuffy is '06 per cent., or 
6 parts in 10,000. In order to maintain the carbonic acid at 
this level, 3,000 cubic feet of pure air are required per hour by 
every adult, and more than half as much should be furnished 
for each scholar. This might be furnished by a large room 
with a slow circulation of air, or a small room with a rapid 
circulation of air. In a school-room the amount of space per 
child is necessarily limited ; this must therefore be compensa- 
ted for by a more frequent change of air. 

The English Educational Department give 80 cubic feet as 
the minimum space per scholar, and 8 square feet as the mini- 
mum floor-space allowable. Under the London School Board, 
eight square feet per scholar are enforced in infant-schools. 
In senior schools the floor-s] ace is calculated upon seat ac- 
commodation. This ensures on the whole slightly over 10 
square feet of floor-space per child. 

We may practically fix the permissible carbonic acid in the 
atmosphere of school-rooms as i part in 1,000, instead of the 
ideal limit of '6 per 1,000 ; as it is doubtful if, with the 15 square 



28 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

tain 1,500 cubic feet of air per hour, it is evident that the air 
must be replaced at least every six minutes, i.e., 10 times in an 
hour. 

To recapitulate : the requirements of each class-room in a 
school building should not be less than 15 square feet of 
floor-area per pupil, and the window-space should equal one- 
fourth of the floor-space. Each pupil should be provided with 
25 to 30 cubic feet of fresh air per minute, introduced and dis- 
tributed without producing unpleasant draughts and having a 
temperature of from 60 to 65 Fahr. 

The above represents the minimum of requirement for cold 
weather. In warm weather, as much fresh air must be intro- 
duced as open windows and doors will admit. 

A fallacy frequently entertained is that deficiencies in floor- 
space may be compensated by a lofty ceiling. Such is not the 
case, however. A "lofty" room is not necessarily "airy." 
Any height above 12 feet has little or no influence on the 
purity of the lower atmosphere in which the children have to 
live ; and cross- ventilation at a considerable height may leave 
the atmosphere of the lower level in which children breathe in 
a vitiated condition. It is not advisable to have school-rooms 
much higher than the windows, as warm and impure air tends 
to accumulate along the ceiling, subsequently falling to the 
floor-level as it cools. 



CHAPTER VI. 

NATURAL VENTILATION. 

Rules respecting Ventilation. Natural and Artificial Ven- 
tilation. Ventilation through Window^ Wall, Chimney, ana 
Ceiling. 

MOST treatises on ventilation and heating have been founded 
on European facts and figures, and are hence unreliable for the 
American climate. And even in speaking of the States alone, 
it is difficult to give general methods which shall be applicable 
to the great diversities of climate includ-d in its 25 of latitude, 
of which the only one feature in common is the inconstancy 
of the climate. New York, for instance, has been said to have 
the summer of Rome, and the winter of Copenhagen. 

Ventilation is constantly being produced by two natural 
agencies, viz., the diffusion of gases, and the movements 
caused by differences of temperature. 

Diffusion, by which the purer outside gases tend to mix 
with the impure internal air, is constantly going on, thougn 
the rate of diffusion is under ordinary circumstances slow and 
the amount of interchange thus effected is but small. 

Differences of temperature cause much more active move- 
ments of air, warm air floating to the top of cold air, as oil floats 
to the top of water. The air in a room is warmed by the in- 
mates and by the stove, gas, or other source of artificial hoat. 
Cold air tends to rush in from every opening, and, being 
29 



30 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

heavier than warm air, falls toward the floor, producing a 
draught. The great problem of ventilation is to secure a 
sufficient interchange of air without causing draughts. The 
entrance of air at any temperature below 50 into a room 
whose temperature is 65 or even 70 is almost certain to be 
accompanied by draught ; hence it is necessary to warm the 
entering air during many of the winter months. 

If a free entrance for pure air is not provided, the influence 
of the higher temperature in the school-room may produce an 
aspiration of air from undesirable places. Thus it not un- 
commonly happens that air is drawn from underground cellars, 
defective drains, water-closets, &c. 

The following rules respecting ventilation are of importance : 

(i.) The air should be drawn from a pure source. 

(2.) No draught or current should be perceptible. Very often 
the remedy for a draught is not to close the opening, but to 
make others in order to increase the area through which air enters. 

(3.) The entry of air should be constant, not at intervals. 

(4.) An abundant exit for impure air should be provided 
sej arate from the points of entrance of fresh air. In order to 
maintain a given standard of purity, it is necessary to provide for 
the removal of as much impure air as is supplied of pure air. 

Ventilation is of two kinds, natural and artificial. The first 
kind is produced by the ordinary interchange of air when 
windows or doors are allowed to remain open. Artificial ven- 
tilation is that produced by the extraneous help of heating 
apparatus or of mechanical appliances for propelling the air 
into a room or aspirating it from it. 

Such mechanical measures are not practically useful for 
school-rooms, and we shall confine ourselves to the considera- 
tion of ventilation by natural means and by heating apparatus. 

Natural Ventilation is possible as an exclusive plan only 
during the summer months. In colder weather the admission 



NATURAL VENTILATION. 31 

of external air produces violent draughts. Any reliance on it as 
the source of pure air is practically found to end in the careful 
closure of all windows, doors, and ventilating apertures, and a 
resulting foulness of atmosphere which is only too common in 
school-rooms. 

When the external temperature reaches 60, or better still 
65, the air may be freely admitted. Open windows are by far 
the best means of ventilation, and during the school recess 
all the windows should be thrown open, opposite windows if 
possible or doors and windows, in order that the rooms may 
be thoroughly flushed with air. Ordinary ventilation commonly 
leaves a considerable proportion of organic volatile matter 
from respiration hanging about the room, while the rapid 
currents of air during the flushing of a room carry this away. 

The occurrence of any down-draught from an open window 
may be prevented by having its upper segment made to work on 
a hinge, lateral triangular pieces of glass being inserted on each 
side of the window (Fig. 4) ; or a narrow piece of wood may be 




4. Diagram of ventilation by hinged windows. 



SCHOOL HYGIENE. 



inserted under the lower sash of the window, an upward cur- 
rent of air being thus allowed between the two sashes. (Fig. 5.) 




FiG. 5. Ventilation between window-sashes, a block being fitted under 
the lower sash. 

Sometimes the top sash is opened and wire gauze is fastened 
across, but by this plan the amount of air which enters is much 
less than through a continuous opening of the same area. 

The ivall may be utilised for ventilating purposes by the in- 
sertion of a grating near the floor which is connected on its 
inner aspect to a vertical tube, an upward direction being thus 
given to the entering air. (Fig. 6 ) Or the grating may be placed 



NATURAL VENTILATION. 



33 



higher up, a movable valve on the inner side of the wall direct- 
ing the current upwards. (Fig. 7.) 



FIG. 6. Diagram showing ventilation by Tobin'S tube, and an exit-shaft leading 
from centre-flower of ceiling. 




FIG. 7. Sheringham's ventilator, 

The ventilation is much more likely to be successful if there 
are openings on opposite sides of the room, or if there is a 
chimney or other draught-compeller, in the school-room. 

Indeed a chimney should always be allowed for each room, 
even when it is not contemplated to have open fires. Owing 



34 



to the aspirating effect of winds acting at the top of the chim- 
ney, there is generally an up-current, and always so if there is 
free ingress of air by doors or windows. The action of the 
chimney in withdrawing impure air from a room, may be 
greatly increased by narrowing its two ends, so as to produce a 
more rapid current at the entrance and exit of air. 

Flap's or Arnott's valves (Fig. 8) placed above the fire- 
place and opening into the flue, are of some service in with- 
drawing hot impure air collected near the ceiling, though the 
extent of their value must not be over-estimated, as the amount 
of air passing through them is, on account of their size, neces- 
sarily limited. 





FIG 8. Boyle's mica-flap ventilator. 
a, View from room. , View from chimney. 

The ceiling may be utilised for carrying off foul air, and as 
the foul air from respiration is warm, it rises to the top of the 
room, and may with advantage be at once removed. 

A grating in the external wall may be made to correspond 
to the space between the ceiling and the floor of the room 
next above, and apertures in the ceiling made to communicate 
with this. (Fig. 6.) Or an air-tight zinc chamber between the 
ceiling and the room above may be carried, by means of a zinc 
pipe, into the chimney, the junction with the latter being guarded 
by a valve working only in one direction. 

The use of ventilating gas-burners should always be en 
forced, the products of the combustion of gas being thus at 
once removed, and at the same time much impure air from 



NATURAL VENTILATION. 35 

the room. (Fig 3, page 20.) It is important, however, that 
children should not work in a room where gas is required during 
the day, and that their evening studies should be very short. 

In order that natural ventilation may be more effectual, all 
corridors should be large and airy, and have windows opening 
direct to the outer air. No school-plan which does not fulfil 
these conditions can be regarded as satisfactory. 

In the methods of ventilation hitherto described, the air is 
admitted at the same temperature as the external air. Such 
methods have, however, but a limited application in the 
States. During a large portion of the year, in order to pre- 
vent dangerous draughts, the incoming air requires warming. 
Th,e means by which the incoming air can be warmed will be 
discussed in the next chapter. 



CHAPTER VII. 

VENTILATION AND WARMING. 

Difficulties oj Successful Ventilation by Warm Air. Open Fire- 
place. Heating by Gas. --Closed Stoves. Central System of 
Heating. Hot- Air Furnaces. Steam Apparatus. Hot- H ater 
Apparatus. Entrance Flues and Extraction Shafts. "J he 
Bridgeport System. 

A DOUBLE heading has been purposely made to this chapter. 
In fact, ventilation and warming, to be in accordance with the 
laws of health, always require to be conjointly considered. A 
successful system of wanning a school must necessarily, for 
purposes of health, provide pure air ; and a successful system 
of ventilation must, at least in the winter months, also furnish 
warmth. 

These considerations bring us face to face with the serious 
question of expense. The warming of a large volume of air 
means the expenditure of coal or gas, and ventilation means 
the discharge of this warmed and therefore expensive air as soon 
as it becomes impure. If, in order to diminish expense, no 
provision is made for the escape of the warm air as it becomes 
polluted, the school-room speedily becomes foul and unhealthy, 
a very hot-bed of disease. 

When the necessary expensiveness of ventilation is fairly 
grasped by school-managers, surely there will be an end of the 
economising over ventilation which is now so general. Such 
economising is most certainly at the expense of the children's 
health, and tends yearly to greatly increase our bill of mortality. 

36 



VENTILATION AND WARMING. 37 

No system of warming and ventilation has been devised 
which will work automatically without the supervision of a 
competent officer. Brains are required as well as coal and an 
apparatus for this purpose ; a watchful and intelligent super- 
vision to see that the temperature and the ingress and egress 
of air are properly adjusted. 

The school-keeper, who is generally responsible for the 
maintenance of hot-air apparatus, not uncommonly regards 
ventilation as inimical to his interests, and will, in case the 
heat is lowered, stop the valves leading to the exit-flues, thus 
penning up the hot impure air, rather than apply the extra fuel 
required. It is to his interest to appear economical of coal ; 
he is, therefore, under the constant temptation to check the 
outflow of warm air from the rooms, and to minimise the 
period of flushing them with external air after school hours. 

The system of warm -air ventilation to be used will vary 
with the size of the school and with local conditions. For 
small schools some of the following plans may be adopted, 
though in large schools a central system is the best. 

The Open Fire-place not only furnishes a cheerful warmth, but 
is likewise a valuable purifier of the atmosphere of a room, as 
from 14,000 to 20,000 cubic feet of air pass up an ordinary 
chimney each hour. Thus, reckoning 1,500 cubic feet for 
each scholar, the respiratory impurities of from 9 to 13 
scholars can be got rid of in this way. The open fire-place, 
however, does not form a convenient source of heat except for 
small rooms, for the following reasons : (i) The heat is un- 
equally distributed, being, for instance, 9 times as great at a 
distance of one foot from the fire as it is at a distance of 3 feet. 
(2) Currents of cold air are produced along the floor in order 
to supply the place of the air which is rushing up the chimney. 
These are very trying unless a free supply of warm air from 
some other source than the fire is allowed. (3) There is the 



SCHOOL HYGIENE. 



trouble of frequently replenishing the fire, interfering with 
studies. 

The great loss of heat necessarily involved in .an open fire- 
place has led to the use of chambers behind the fire-place, by 
which external air is warmed as it enters the room. A stove 
constructed on this principle is shown in Fig. 9. At the back 
of the stove is an air-chamber communicating with the external 
air. 

Air admitted through the opening (a, Fig. 9) is warmed by 
coming in contact with the fire-clay (d), which separates the air- 
channel from the smoke flue (c). The warmed air leaves the 
air- channel by the grating (6) over the fire-place, and then 
travels along the upper part of the room, falling to the floor as 
it cools and finally escaping up the chimney. 








FlG, 9. Slow-combustion ventilating stove. 
I. Section of stove, showing a, entrance of cold air ; b, entrance of 

warmed air into room ; c , smoke-flue ; d t fireclay back of stove. 
8. Front elevation of same stove. 



VENTILATION AND WARMING. 39 

Gas is sometimes employed instead of coal for fires. 

No gas-stove should be allowed in which provision is not 
made for carrying off all the products of combustion. A 
chimney or pipe for carrying away the gases produced is even 
more necessary than in the case of a coal-fire, for in the latter 
case the smoke produced would necessitate a recourse to open 
windows or other means of ventilation, while in the former the 
deleterious products are invisible. Gas is suitable as a means 
of heating only small rooms, owing to its greater expense. 
Several stoves are convenient and thoroughly sanitary; they 
are placed in an open fire-place with a flue-pipe attached. For 
school-rooms where gas is, for special reasons, employed as the 
heating agent, the Calorigen stove is a valuable means of 
supplying warm and pure air. Us arrangement is shown 
in Fig. 10. A spiral tube communicates below with the 




FIG. io. The Calorigen stove. 



40 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

external air, and opens at its upper end into the room. A 
small gas-flame is kept burning below the spiral tube, the pro- 
ducts of combustion from which are carried directly out-of- 
doors. The heat thus produced warms the air which is 
passing along the spiral tube and causes a constant rapid entry 
of warm air into the room. 

Closed Stoves are useful chiefly in small school-rooms, either 
gas or coal being burnt. They possess the advantage over an 
open fire-place, that there is a smaller consumption of fuel, and 
that the combustion can be more effectually regulated. 
Commonly, however, they make the air of a room dry, and 
produce a peculiar close smell, probably owing to the charring 
of minute organic particles. It is found also that carbonic 
oxide may pass through cracks or even through the substance 
of iron stoves, when they are red-hot. When stoves are 
employed, firebrick should be everywhere in contact with the 
fire, and the stove should never be allowed to become red-hot. 
There should be as few joints as possible, and these should be 
horizontal and not vertical. The supply of air to the stove 
should never be cut off, nor should the escape of the 
products of combustion be prevented by dampers, or by 
admitting air between the stove and the chimney. 

We are strongly of opinion that stoves should be allowed 
only in combination with some provision for warming the in- 
coming air. This may be secured by having a sheet iron or 
zinc cylinder, considerably wider than the stove-pipe, placed 
round it and fastened to the floor below. A good-sized pipe is 
then carried through the floor and out to the external wall of 
the school. In this way a large supply of warmed air is 
drawn into the room (Fig. u). Similarly the stove-pipe rcay 
be utilised by enclosing it in another pipe, which starts some 
distance from the stove, and is carried into the chimney. This 
causes the abstraction of considerable impure air. If required. 



VENTILATION AND WARMING. 41 

impure air may be withdrawn from the next room below by a 
modification of this method. 




FIG. ii. C losed stove arranged to warm incoming fresh-air. 

Central System of Heating. -Hot air, steam, and hot water 
are the usual sources of heat employed, and each plan will 
require consideration. 

The great majority of Hot-air Furnaces are unsatisfactory 
for several reasons. (i.) The furnace is generally too small ; 
consequently, in severely cold weather, the radiating surfaces 
are unduly heated and the joints may be loosened. Carbonic 
oxide and sulphurous acid may then escape, the latter being 
fortunately irritant, but the former odourless and recognised 
only by the giddiness, languor, and peculiar discomfort 



4* SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

produced. Carbonic oxide will pass through red-hot cast-iron, 
but the danger from the sand-holes produced in defective 
casting, or from badly-fitting joints, is probably much greater. 
Wrought-iron furnaces do not allow the escape of carbonic 
oxide through their substance, but the joints may crack ; and 
wrought-iron oxidises more rapidly than cast-iron. 

(2.) No provision is made for mixing cool with the heated 
air, which is often distributed at 140. To cool the room the 
register is shut off, the poor scholars being then obliged to re- 
breathe the same atmosphere repeatedly. 

(3.) The source of the air supply to the furnace is often 
most unsatisfactory. The furnace-room may contain decom- 
posing vegetables or an empty bell trap leading to a defective 
drain or a water-closet, none of which increase the purity of 
the school atmosphere. If the furnace-room is underground, 
it is not infrequently kept closed, and then the air which is 
warmed may be the air already breathed by the scholars, and 
subsequently drawn down into the cellar. A large furnace 
is best, as it never needs to be made red-hot. It should have 
the fewest joints and the largest amount of radiating-sur- 
face, in proportion to the size of the fire-box, that can be 
secured. 

Steam Apparatus is perhaps more frequently used than any 
other in the United States ; and it offers such great advantages, 
that it is to be regretted that it is not more frequently used in other 
countries. It is much more easily made to work and is cheaper 
than hot-water apparatus, and there is less difficulty in planning 
it. Also the radiating surfaces, being at a higher temperature 
than with hot water, may be made smaller and more compact. 

Its chief disadvantages are that (i) constant attention is 
required to keep up the supply of heat, as the radiating sur- 
faces cool much more rapidly than hot-water apparatus. 
(2) The radiators being at a very high temperature it is dim"- 



VENTILATION AND WARMING. 43 

cult to regulate the supply of heat in accordance with the out- 
door temperature. 

This may be remedied by arranging each set of radiators in 
several different sections, in each of which the flow of steam 
can be regulated independently of the others. Or the air 
ducts and flues may be so arranged that by movement of a 
valve the air can be made to pass wholly in contact with the 
radiating surfaces or separate from them in any proportion. 
Such a plan requiries the superintendence of a skilled 
attendant. 

Hot-water Apparatus possesses some advantages over steam- 
apparatus, in the facts that the air passing over hot-water pipes 
is as a rule not raised above 100 F., with a temperature of the 
pipes of from 160-180, and that hot water continues to cir- 
culate some time after the fire is extinguished. 

We shall mention only to condemn the system of "Direct 
Raaiation" in which steam-pipes are placed in a room without 
any provision for the entry of warmed air. This has been 
well described as " one of the most killing systems in exist- 
ence." The use of hot-water pipes (apart from arrangements 
for ventilation), whether on the low-pressure or high-pressure 
system, is similarly to be condemned. In every case provision 
should be made for passing the cold external air over the pipes 
as it enters the room. 

In discussing the preceding systems of warming, we have 
assumed that warmed air is admitted in amount proportionate 
to the number of scholars. Each scholar requiries 1,500 
cubic feet of air per hour ; therefore, assuming the space per 
head as 150 cubic feet, it follows that the air of the room must 
be replenished every 6 minutes. At the same time an equal 
(or slightly larger) amount of air must be removed to make 
way for the pure air. 

Suppose we have to arrange for a school with from 8 to u 



44 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

class-rooms, each with 40 to 60 pupils, and that these are in 
connection with a large central hall in a two-story brick build- 
ing. Ordinarily, architects concern themselves entirely with 
the provision of extraction-shafts for foul air, trusting for pure 
air to what can enter through slits in the window-sills, &c., 
while the heating-apparatus is apart from any ventilation. 

The provision of these extraction-shafts is of great import- 
ance, and we may consider them first. As a rule there should 
be an aspirating shaft or chimney on each side of the central 
hall. A room containing 50 scholars, should discharge 2 ; 
cubic feet of air per second ; a flue carrying air with a velocity 
of 6 feet per second should therefore be 2 feet square, exclusive 
of the space allowed for smoke-flue or other heating apparatus. 
(Dr. Billings.) Such extraction, however, without the provi- 
sion of warm pure air to take its place, is never satisfactory. 
The vis a tergo as well as the vis afronte is required in order to 
maintain a pure atmosphere. ^The system adopted at the High 
School, Bridgeport, Connecticut, is one of the most successful 
and complete hitherto adopted, as it fulfils all the requirements 
of school ventilation and warming. (For details see 3rd 
Annual Report of Connecticut State Board of Health.) 

In this system the coil boxes heated by steam are placed 
on the inner wall, extensive piping being thus saved and the 
danger of freezing obviated. Fresh air is passed through the 
coil-chambers and conveyed to the rooms by metallic flues 
entering the inner wall about 8 feet from the floor. Thence it 
diffuses itself along the walls and ceiling, passing down the 
opposite wall and returning at a lower level to the flue for exit 
of impure air, which is placed under a platform measuring 6 by 
12 feet on movable castors and on the same side of the room 
as the introduction-flue. 

Careful experiments have shown that no other relative posi- 
tion of entrance and exit flues ensures so thorough and equable 



VENTILATION AND WARMING. 45 

a warming of the room, and replenishing of its atmosphere. 
The entire lower edge of the platform is 4 inches from the 
floor, to allow full circulation of air under it. 

In order that a strong up-current may be constantly ensured 
in the foul-air shafts, other coils are placed in them, and the 
entrance and boiler flues are also made to pass through the 
foul-air shafts, of course without any communication. The 
foul-air or extraction shafts should never be placed in the 
outer wall if possible, owing to the defective up-current from 
loss of heat. If such an arrangement cannot be avoided, the 
loss of heat maybe diminished by a double wall and air space. 

The difficulty of regulating the temperature of the rooms 
without closing the registers has been overcome in the Bridge- 
port School-house, by enclosing the heating surface for each 
room in a separate jacket of metal and then subdividing ic 
into five sections, so arranged that any number may be used 
or cut off at pleasure, the supply of pure air remaining always 
the same. 



CHAPTER VIII. 
DRAINAGE ARRANGEMENTS. 

Lavatories. Urinals. Water-closets. Soil-pipe. Drains. 
Earth-closets. 

THE school premises should always be so placed that there is 
a fall from them capable of being utilised for drainage. A site 
without means of drainage is not worth having at any price. 

Lavatories should be kept strictly clean, and the waste-pipes 
not allowed to run directly into the drain, but trapped, with a 
fresh-air inlet on the house side of the trap. In one case, the 
writer distinctly traced an outbreak of typhoid fever in a school 
to the direct connection of the lavatory-waste with a Mansergh's 
trap, the arrangement of which had been inverted by an 
ignorant workman. In cold climates, disconnection, on the 
English system, is impracticable. It is well to remember that 
sometimes the overflow-pipes from wash-basins are connected 
with the drain, even when the waste-pipes are properly dis- 
connected. An offensive smell may arise from decomposing 
soap in lavatory waste-pipes ; hence, when several basins are 
connected with a common waste-pipe, the angles of junction 
should be very obtuse. In addition, the waste-pipe from each 
basin should have a syphon-bend close under the basin, to 
prevent offensive smells from decomposing soap in the waste 
pipe, and a ventilating pipe from this to prevent the water in 
the bend being exhausted by syphon-action. (Fig. 12.) The 
preceding plan is the best where there is not frequent danger 
of the water freezing in the gully-trap, (b, Fig. 12.) In the 
States, however, this is so common an event in winter that the 
46 



DRAINAGE ARRANGEMENTS. 



47 



gully-trap has to be abandoned ; and the lavatory waste-pipe 
must be directly connected with other waste-pipes which dis- 
charge into the drain. In this case the syphon-bend shown at 
c, and the ventilation shaft shown at </, must be insisted on. 
(Fig. 12.) 





FIG 12. Lavatory wash-basin. 

a, Waste-pipe, emptying over water-seal of gully-trap (3) ; c, syphon-trap in 
waste-pipe to prevent foul-air from waste-pipe getting into room ; d, ventila- 
ting pipe from syphon to prevent unsyphoning ; e, discharge of overflow pipe. 

Urinals are best furnished with china or glazed earthen- 
ware pans, as these hardly allow any sediment. Slate, stone, or 
cement slabs should not be used, as the rougher surface allows 
deposit, and they can be written on. Water should not be 
allowed to trickle down for cleansing purposes, as children 
play with it, and even try to drink. Frequent washing by an 
attendant is best, or the provision of an automatic flush-tank^ 
which discharges its contents at intervals. Five places foi 



40 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

each hundred children are required. The waste-pipe from the 
urinal should open into a ventilated trap, and not be directly 
connected with the drain. 

Closets should never be placed in the basement under the 
school. They may be partially connected with the school by 
a covered subway, but should always be in a separate building. 
The walls of the closet should be of a material that cannot be 
written on, tiles being best for this purpose, and all closets 
should be frequently inspected. The proper allowance is one 
seat for every 15 girls or 25 boys (or less), the seats being 
proportionate to the children's stature, and the closets divided 
by partitions. There should be separate provision for teachers 
and the two sexes. 




FIG. 13. Pan closet, with D trap beneath. 

An illustration of the form of closet most commonly usedj but most dangerous 

to health. 



UKAINAGE ARRANGEMENTS. 49 

The common privy is most objectionable from a sanitary 

standpoint. Either water or earth closets should be employed. 

Of water-closets, pan-closets are always bad, and simple 




FIG. 14. An improved hopper closet. 

valveless closets are most suitable. The water supply should 
be abundant, and from a cistern distinct from that supplying 
drinking-water. The amount of fall from the cistern to the 
closet should be at least 3 or 4 feet, and the internal diameter 
of the flushing-pipe at least ij inch. For teachers' closets, 
the valve closet shown in Fig. 15 is a very good form, especially 
where such a closet is in the main building near class-rooms. 
As lifting a handle is recmired for flushing purposes, it should 
never be allowed for children, for whom the valveless closet 
shown in Fig. 14 is most suita'ul , combined with an automatic 
flushing arrangement, worked by rising from the seat. 

Instead of isolated water-closets, the tumbler- do set or trough- 
closet may be employed, each having a number of seats and a 
water-tight trough below, the contents of which are emptied 
only at intervals by a flush of water, and the removal of a 




5 



SCHOOL HYGIENE. 



plug. It carefully superintended, such an arrangement works 
fairly well; but if neglected, a considerable nuisance is pro- 
duced. 

The soil-pipe should be carried above the roof of the 




rvsn 



FIG. I5.TT A sanitary valve-cl,oset. 

a, valve which is opened by a handle; b, overflow pipe from pan of closet; 
c, small ventilating-pipe connected with syphon-trap to prevent its being 
emptied of water by syphon-action (it is carried through the wall a little 
higher up) ; d, waste-pipe from tray to catch accidental spillings, made 
to discharge beyond the outer wall, and not connected with soil-pipe; 
e, ventilating-shaft continued upward from soil-pipe. 

school-building, with a wire grating over the top, and a ven- 
tilated trap placed at the other end of the school drain- 



DRAINAGE ARRANGEMENTS. 



5 1 



age system, thus insuring complete ventilation of the school- 
drain. 

The Drain-pipe should be as small as is consistent with its 
carrying away all waste matters. The larger it is, the more 
liable it is to become blocked. Iron pipes are preferable to 
brick or earthenware, especially within the house. They 
should be coated inside and out with some material which 
completely withstands all chemical action and changes of 
temperature. 

The drain-pipe should be separated from the main sewer by 
a syphon-trap which is ventilated, thus allowing fresh air to 
sweep from one end of the school drainage system to the other. 




FlG. 16. Vertical section of disconnecting-chamber with intercepting trap, 
showing ventilation of school-drain and method of reaching pipes for 
cleansing purposes. 

a 



SCHOOL HYGIENE. 



Under no circumstances should a cesspool, "the king of 
nuisances," be allowed to receive the school-drainage. It 





2 3 

FIG. 17. Iron cover to disconnecting-chamber. 

I, The iron cover removed. 2, Section of cover and frame. 3, India-rubber 
seating at angle, forming an air-tight junction. 

forms a manufactory for poisonous sewer-gases, even more 
effectually than a badly-constructed sewer. The soil around 
the cesspool tends to become " excrement-sodden," and the 
water of any well in the neighbourhood is in constant danger 
of contamination. 

Children are apt to play or hide about retired parts of the 
school-ground, and thus may be endangered by the effluvia 
from the cesspool. 

When there is no central system of drainage, Earth-closets 
should always be used, and, even when this is available, earth- 
closets present a great advantage in the absence of fear of 
the water-supply becoming frozen. It is found that iMb. of 
dry, loamy earth will completely deodorise the closet each 
time it is used. The earth must be dry. It has been well 
said by Moule, the originator of the system, that " an earth 
closet will no more work without dry earth, than a water-closet 



DRAINAGE ARRANGEMENTS. 53 

will work without water." Pure sand and gravel or chalk are 
nearly useless, but sawdust answers fairly well. 

When earth-closets are adopted, the waste water from 
lavatories and urinals requires separate treatment. In country 
places the best plan is to collect the waste water in an automatic 
flush-tank, which, when it becomes full, discharges all its 
contents into loosely-laid drains under the surface of a garden 
or field. In this way the water is effectually discharged at 
intervals, while at the same time a sodden condition of the 
soil is not produced. 



PART II. 

SCHOLARS. 



CHAPTER IX. 
MENTAL EXERCISE. 

Full Scope of Education. Quantity and Quality of Brain. The 
Brain a Compound Organ. Functional Habits of Brain. Blood 
Supply. Sensory and Muscular Education of Brain. 

IT cannot be too clearly understood that the function of 
education is to prepare a child for his after-life, and the true 
test of the value of an educational course lies in whether it 
fulfils this end. In order that the preparation may be complete, 
the physical, mental, and moral parts of a child's nature must 
be embraced within its scope. A lack of education in any one 
of these, leads to the production of an ill-balanced and defective 
manhood. These parts of our nature are inextricably associ- 
ated, and defects in one react injuriously on the others. It is 
unfortunate that so very narrow a view of the scope of education 
is usually taken. That is the best schooling which most 
completely prepares a child for his future career, by training 
his powers of observation, memory, and reflection, while at the 
same time imparting knowledge which shall be of practical 
service in life. 

Physical education we shall discuss in Chap. XII. ; here we 
are chiefly concerned with mental education in its bearings on 
health. 

Whatever view of the relation of mind and brain be taken 
57 



5 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

it will be agreed that the brain is the instrument necessary to 
all mental operations. 

The exercise of the brain involved in education leads to an 
increase m its size and an improvement in its quality beyond 
what occurs in the uneducated. The average weight of the 
brain in the adult European is between 49 and 50 ounces. In 
civilised races it is heavier than in the less civilised, and even 
in the highly-civilised races an increase in the size of the brain 
has occurred in historic times. 

At birth the weight of the brain averages from n to 14 
ounces, and a progressive increase, most rapid in the earlier 
years, occurs, the greatest average weight of the male brain 
being reached at the age of 35, and of the female brain at 
about 30. 

Just as increased muscular exercise leads to increased size 
and strength of the muscles, so may increased brain-exercise, 
during the period of its natural growth, accelerate and increase 
the individual growth of brain, and lead to the transmission of 
a tendency to larger brains. 

Size of brain is not the only consideration, for the brain of a 
child seven years old is equal to nine-tenths of its weight in 
the adult, and at three years it is equal to three-fourths of the 
full weight. Nevertheless, other things being equal, the man 
with the largest brain has the greatest chance of success. 

The quality of the structure of a brain, and the degree of 
elaboration of its grey matter, have also to be considered ; and 
they vary much, even in brains of equal size. Education 
doubtless elaborates the structure of a brain, and multiplies 
connections between its cells, as well as probably increasing the 
number of cells. 

The brain must hardly be considered as a single organ, but 
a collection of organs^ which, although most intimately united, 
are also capable in some degree of independent action. 



MENTAL EXERCISE. 59 

Different convo'u ions of the brain have been proved by 
Hitzig and Ferrier to have special functions, and it is probable 
that excessive development of any one faculty is accompanied 
by a disproportionate development of a corresponding con- 
volution. The importance of early and systematic exercise 
directed to the uniform development of all parts of the brain, 
cannot be exaggerated. A genius in one direction should not 
be allowed too early to follow its own bent, or an ill-balanced 
mind is the inevitable consequence There is some degree of 
truth in the statement that there is but a step between the ill- 
balanced brain of a genius and that of a lunatic. 

Studies requiring observation, memory, or reasoning-power, 
bring into action different parts of the brain, and should all in 
turn receive careful and balanced attention. If the emotions 
are allowed to have a preponderant influence, life becomes 
wavering and uncontrolled by the will ; while in some logically- 
minded individuals the emotions seem to have no place. 

The u ility oi a brain depends largely on its functional habits. 
Corresponding to each thought, there is probably a nerve- 
current in a particular part of the brain. Currents of nerve- 
force travel preferably in the pathways of least resistance, and 
these are where currents have repeatedly passed. Careful and 
persevering attention to special points will thus strengthen 
individual character, and may even lead to the formation of 
new mental habits. In this way it may be possible to 
counteract evil hereditary tendencies, and, by the aid of a wise 
teacher, to form a strong and evenly-balanced mind. 

The brain is dependent for the continuance of its functions 
on an abundant and pure supply of blood. Any mental excite- 
ment causes a determination of blood to the brain. The more 
the brain is exercised within reasonable limits, the more 
blood it receives, and consequently the more it grows. If one 
part of the brain is disproportionately exercised, it grows dis- 



60 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

proportionately, while if the exercise is excessive other evils 
may be produced. (See Chap. X.) 

Deficient food, indigestion, or an impure atmosphere, causes 
listlessness, apathy, headache, and other nervous symptoms, 
owing to impoverishment of the brain by deficient biood, or 
poisoning of it by impure blood. 

The brain is not only the organ of thought and volition and 
the emotions, but is also the centre for the reception of 
impressions from other parts of the body and the external 
world, and the interpretation of these. 

The influence of sensory and muscular impressions on the 
brain is so important as to call for some further remarks. 

Sensations are perceived as such in the brain, the sensory 
organ (eye, ear, etc.) simply serving as a receptive medium 
which conveys the external stimulus to the brain. 

The different sensations are received in separate parts of 
the brain. The resultant of these sensations stored up in the 
brain constitutes memory. It is evident that the cultivation 
of one sensory organ (or rather of the corresponding part of 
the brain) may be encouraged to the neglect of other senses, 
and thus an ill-balanced condition produced. For instance, a 
boy may have an excellent sense of touch, or an accurate 
perception of weight and resistance, and yet have no taste for 
music. Each sense requires special cultivation, and becomes 
skilled in proportion to the education received. It has been 
well said by Dr. Clarke : " If a single organ is wanting, or a single 
function not performed, just so much less brain development 
results." It is also unhappily true that the imperfect per- 
formance of any one mental function reacts injuriously on 
others. Hence the truth of the poetical statement 

" Break but one 

Of a thousand keys, and the paining jat 
Through all will run." (Whittier.) 



MENTAL EXERCISE. 6l 

When the education of the senses is neglected, all subsequent 
education has a haziness about it which is almost irremediable. 
The Kindergarten system, cultivating the senses and powers 
of observation and construction from the earliest period, is of 
great value in this connection. 

The brain controls and commands all voluntary muscular 
movements. In doing this, the motor part of the brain is 
necessarily exercised. In this way, gymnastics exercise the 
brain and increase its size. If an arm is amputated or 
paralysed in infancy, there is so much less brain in the adult. 
The influence of muscular exercise on brain-development will 
be further discussed in Chap. XII. 

Brain-exercise is not carried on solely in our schools. It 
commences at the earliest period of life, and never ceases 
throughout conscious existence. 

In the early years of life, the sensory, mote,-, and observing 
portions of the brain are chiefly exercised ; while the exercise 
of the reasoning-powers and memory is that with which 
teachers are chiefly concerned. We must again repeat, how- 
ever, that any education which does not bring into healthful 
and balanced action every part of a child's nature cannot be 
regarded as satisfactory or complete. 



CHAPTER X. 
EXCESSIVE MENTAL EXERCISE. 

Symptoms and Effects of Brain- for ring. The " Cram" System.' 
Causes of Over-strain Home Lessons. Badly -arranged Wotk. 
Importance of Technical Instruction. Good and Bad Examina- 
tions. Consumption from Over- work. Punish ments. 

THE general raising of the standard of education and the fact 
that it is becoming universal, render the danger of excessive 
mental exercise increasingly great. 

An adult brain in the intervals of work has to repair its 
structural losses and lay up a store of potential energy for future 
use ; the brain during the period of school-life has also to 
build up fresh material for its growth. 

If we obtain mental maturity at an early age, it is at the ex- 
pense of stability and real power. The higher the organism 
the longer it takes to arrive at maturity, is a biological law 
the truth of which is shown by the fact that precocity is 
generally followed by inferior mental organisation. Striking 
exceptions to this rule will doubtless occur to the reader, but 
the truth of it in ordinary cases is fairly established. 

The evils of a vicious system of education were long ago 

depicted by Charles Dickens. " Dr. Blimber's establishment 

was a great hot-house in which there was a forcing-apparatus 

constantly at work. Mental green-peas were produced at 

62 






EXCESSIVE MENTAL 1 X 7 ,RCISE. 63 

Christmas, and intellectual asparagus all the year round. 
Nature was of no consequence at all ; no matter what a young 
gentleman was intended to bear, Dr.'Blimber made him bear to 
order somehow or other. This was very pleasant and inge- 
nious, but the system of forcing was attended with its' usual 
disadvantages ; there was not a right taste about the premature 
productions, and they didn't keep well. . . . And people 
did say that the Doctor had rather overdone it with young 
Toots, who, when he had whiskers, left off having brains." 

Ordinary school-work, interrupted by vacations, seldom 
produces excessive strain on the mental powers of children. It 
is only in exceptional cases, where the children are insufficiently 
fed, or are of a peculiarly excitable temperament, or where 
the hours of study are unduly prolonged, that this result is likely 
to ensue. Such over-strain may also occur when one particular 
class of work is persisted in to excess, to the exclusion of varied 
work and of recreative exercise. 

In such cases, headache is one of the first symptoms to attract 
attention. The parent is a much better judge as to whether 
the school-work is overtaxing the child, than the teacher, as 
the latter has to deal with a large class and can scarcely watch 
with sufficient care each child. If a child frequently complains 
of headache, it may be due to overwork, though the far more 
frequent causes such as indigestion, bad atmosphere, defects 
of vision should first be eliminated. 

Many children seem indolent and stupid in school. The 
proper remedy for this, in not a few cases, is not some form of 
punishment, but attention to the general state of health, or 
sometimes a relaxation of studies. In some cases, apparent 
stupidity is really due to some defect of vision, a form of "arti- 
ficial stupidity " which is discussed in Chap. XVII. 

The brain may, in rare cases, become congested from over- 
work, and in certain cases, where a strong tubercular tendency 



64 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

exists, this would tend to produce meningitis (brain-fever). It 
would be unfair, however, to ascribe tubercular meningitis 
directly to school-work, as it is common both before and after 
the school-period of life. The school-work (like any other 
form of excitement) might tend to hasten such an attack. 

Dr. Sturges, in the Lancet (Jan. 3, 1885), gives 200 cases ot 
chorea (St. Vitus's dance),of which 79 were of known causation, 
and 14 of these, or i in 6, were apparently due to schooling. 
Doubtless the 14 should be taken from a larger number than 
79, and the fact that chorea in children who do not attend 
school, occurs chiefly in the school-period of life, must be 
remembered. 

Dr. Me Lane Hamilton's recent investigations show that over 
20 per cent, of the young children in the public schools of 
New York have choreic affections of greater or less gravity. 

Chorea is a disease rather of the poor than of the rich, so 
under-feeding may be a factor in its production. Very often 
a sudden shock, as from a severe whipping or a fright, is the 
cause, though this would be much more likely to produce the 
disease if the child's brain were in an overstrained condition. 

The tendency for parents to send their children to school as 
soon as they have recovered from acute illnesses, is greatly to be 
deprecated.* After fevers, for instance, it takes some months 
before the brain recovers its former condition of nutrition and 
power. After severe blows on the head, or concussion of the 
brain, again, children should be allowed prolonged mental rest, 
or a tendency to epilepsy or other diseases may be developed. 

Excessive study is a mistake, from every point of view. It 
defeats its own ends ; the mind cannot assimilate beyond a 
certain rate, any more than can the digestive organs ; and it 

* The insistance by School- Board officers of an early return to 
school of children who have been seriously ill, is a real evil, which 
falls heavily on the poor. 



EXCESSIVE MENTAL EXERCISE. 65 

makes study distasteml to children, and consequently 
encourages the shirking of tasks. 

It is a mistake also, because it assumes that the acquisition 
of knowledge is everything, forgetting that the organisation of 
knowledge, for which time and thought are required, is the 
essentially important matter. " It is not the knowledge stored 
up as intellectual fat which is of value, but that which is turned 
into intellectual muscle." (Herbert Spencer.) 

The folly of what is known as the " cram " system becomes 
evident in this connection. The knowledge imparted in such a 
way is speedily lost, while at the same time the 1 rain is unfitted 
for healthful and spontaneous exercise in the future, 

It is a mistake also, because, in the young, it interferes with 
the due development of the whole body. The increased 
circulation of blood in the brain implies diminished circulation 
through the limbs and other parts of the system. Even 
supposing that increased mental power is the result, the general 
physique necessary to make it available in the battle of life, is 
wanting; unless a man is " a good animal," one of the first 
requisites for success in life is absent. But increased mental 
power is not the result. The abnormally -rapid advance of any 
organ in respect of structure, involves premature arrest of its 
growth. A forced brain usually falls short, in the end, of the 
normal standard of size and power. 

Many causes may, in badly-arranged schools, lead to the 
production of over-strain in children. 

They may be classified as influences operating through the 
general health, home-lessons, bad arrangement of work, ex- 
aminations, and punishments. 

(i.) Very often the amount of work is not in itself exces 
sive, but the scholar's health is depreciated by deficient ex- 
ercise, impure air, deficient clothing, or insufficient or unsuit- 
able food. These matters will be discussed in later chapters. 
r 



66 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

(2.) Not uncommonly the school-lessons are not excessive, 
but home-lessons are given which require prolonged attention, 
and leave too little time for meals or recreation. Parents can 
best judge as to whether home-lessons are doing harm, and 
and should at once communicate with the teacher, if any in- 
dications of over-pressure appear. In any case, home-lessons 
should be reduced to a minimum, should not require to be 
done in the evening, and should rather take the form of re- 
capitulation of work done during the day than break into new 
ground. ' 

(3.) The School-work may be badly arranged. The most 
common fault under this head is too long lessons. The brain 
becomes fatigued when attention to one subject is prolonged. 
Much better results can be obtained in an hour's lesson by 
devoting five minutes in the middle of it to drill-exercises, than 
if the whole hour is devoted to mental work. Lessons should 
never exceed an hour in duration even for elder scholars, and 
three-quarters of an hour is preferable. Singing or drill- 
exercises for a few minutes in the interval arouse the nervous 
energies and facilitate subsequent attention to work. 

Even during school-hours much can be done to diminish 
fatigue by change oj subjects. Thus languages or history should 
alternate with mathematics, memory and reasoning being 
successively exercised. Then mechanical work, as writing or 
drawing, may follow, succeeded by object-lessons and experi- 
mental lectures. By some such succession as this the best 
results can be obtained with the least mental fatigue. In this 
connection, the proposed introduction of technical and indus- 
trial instruction into elementary schools is a most important 
step in the right direction, and will have invaluable influence 
on both the mental and physical training of children. The 
time devoted to manual instruction, while it is useful in itself 
as an introduction to industrial occupations, has an important 



EXCESSIVE MENTAL EXERCISE. 67 

bearing, which has already been discussed, on the due develop- 
ment of every part of the brain, and on the maintenance of 
that balance between different parts, upon which healthful and 
co-ordinated mental action depends. 

(4) Examinations are chiefly sources of danger to older 
scholars, especially when they are of a competitive character, 
bringing into action the force of emulation. The mobile 
nervous system, and the somewhat greater preponderance of 
the emotional faculties in girls, render them peculiarly prone 
to suffer when subjected to competitive examinations. 

We are not prepared to condemn examinations ; it would be 
difficult or even impossible to discover an efficient substitute. 
If well conducted, an examination may be of great educative 
value. It finds out weak points, and shows how future efforts 
may be made more successful, while the anticipation of the 
examination guides and stimulates the scholar's efforts. The 
best results of a teacher's work, especially his personal influence 
on the training of mental or moral faculties, and the influence 
of an upright and consistent example, can, however, never be 
brought to the test of an examination. 

Doubtless the best motive for studying a subject would be 
the interest it affords ; but this cannot be aroused till the 
scholar enters the subject, and sometimes not even then ; hence 
the necessity for some external definite motive. 

Examinations at the best are but means to an end ; they 
cease to be beneficial when they are made the object of the 
teacher's tuition, and they are most pernicious when undue 
strain is put on children for some weeks before the known date 
of an examination rather than a steady unwavering system of 
work throughout the year. Examinations, in order to be 
satisfactory, should review the work actually done by the 
scholar. The duty of the examiner is rather to find out how 
much the scholar knows, than to distress him by revealing his 

F 2 



68 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

ignorance on obscure points. An examination of the former 
kind may be a healthful and encouraging stimulus, while one 
of the latter kind leaves only a sense of embarrassment 
and irritation in the scholar's mind, which weakens him for 
future efforts. 

The occurrence of headaches, restlessness, irritability, and 
inability to fix the attention, are finger-posts showing over-work 
in preparation for examinations, and should receive early at- 
tention. 

In 1872 the Massachusetts Board of Health enquired by 
circular of a number of physicians and teachers whether in their 
experience phthisis (consumption) was ever brought on by 
over-study. Of 191 replies, 146 were in the affirmative, and 
Dr. Bowditch, then Chairman of the Board, said: "I find 
almost invariably in patients predisposed to phthisis, that a 
prize gained or an examination concluded is the signal for 
entire decay of the physical powers, under the violent strain 
put previously on the mind, and with a total neglect of corre- 
sponding physical exercise." The fact that such a large 
proportion of answers were in the affirmative is not so 
conclusive as at first sight appears ; for those doctors having 
definite cases to narrate would be much more likely to answer 
the circular than others whose experience was negative. 

(5.) Punishments are a valuable means of bringing refrac- 
tory children to reason ; though the fear of them, when wielded 
by an unmerciful teacher, may lead nervous children to 
excessive and injurious efforts. 

The advisability of corporal punishment is a somewhat 
vexed question. It is urged against it that it is hurtful and 
degrading to those who receive it, while it hardens the 
sensibilities of those who inflict it. The latter is certainly not 
true, if the punishment is moderate, and not inflicted 
under the influence of passion. As regards the former, most 



EXCESSIVE MENTAL EXERCISE. 69 

teachers assert that there are children so wayward and 
obstinate, that there is no way of controlling them except 
through fear of bodily pain. If bodily punishment is ever 
inflicted, it should be as a last resort, and at an hour-or-two's 
interval after the offence requiring it, in order that the punish- 
ment may not be vindictive, and that it may be quite clear to 
the delinquent that the teacher is simply the instrument of 
punishment which is the natural result of the offence. 

Certain forms of corporal punishment should never be 
allowed. Boxing the ears or blows on the head are always 
dangerous, and so is the use of a hard inflexible stick. 

It would appear that teachers are gradually finding that they 
can maintain discipline without any form of corporal punish- 
ment. In the city of New York it has been forbidden in the 
public schools, expulsion being substituted for it as a dernier 
ressort. 

The giving of impositions requiring the keeping-in of the 
scholar for a prolonged period, and interfering with his meals 
and recreation, should seldom be had recourse to. The plan 
of having good and bad marks, which are subsequently reported 
to parents and made the subject of rewards, works much 
better than any form of corporal punishment. 



CHAPTER XI. 
AGE AND SEX IN RELATION TO SCHOOL-WORK. 

Duration of School-work at various Ages. Statistics of Children 
attending School at various Ages. Growth and Development in 
relation to School work. Weight and Size of Children. Chart oj 
Growth of Children. Sex in Education. Character of Educa- 
tion in relation to Sex. 

AGE has a most important bearing on the character, amount, 
and distribution of the work to be given to children. During 
the period of childhood, including up to the end of the yth 
year, more rapid changes are being undergone than at any 
subsequent period of life. At 7 years old a child weighs about 
6 times as much as at birth, and has half the stature, and from 
one-third to one-fourth of the weight of an adult. The less 
book-work the better, during this period. Education is 
not confined to schools. From the first moment of life edu- 
cation in the best sense commences, and makes rapid strides. 
The senses become trained, and the powers of observation are 
perhaps keener than at any subsequent period, while the mind 
is becoming stored with impressions which form the ground- 
work of subsequent mental life. 

Much depends on the general training of a child during 
this period. His habits are being formed, and his after- 
70 



AGE AND SEX IN RELATION TO SCHOOL-WORK. 



progress in life is largely determined by the parental and other 
influences to which he is at this time subjected. 

Various opinions are held as to the age at which attendance 
at school should begin. The following table gives the per- 
centage at different ages, for the 4,412,148 children attending 
public elementary schools in England and Wales during the 
year 1885. (Report of Committee of Council on Education, 
1885-6, p. 210.) 



Age. 


Per cent. 


Age. 


Per cent. 


Under 3 years. 


20 


8-9 


11-95 


3-4 


289 


910 


1 174 


45 


6-58 


10 II 


11-45 


5-6 


10*00 


II 12 


lO'II 


6-7 


11-40 


1213 


7'8i 


7-8 


1177 


I3-M 


3'2i 






14 and over 


89 



It will be seen from this table that 10 per cent, of the total 
number of scholars attending school are under 5 years of age, 
and that 31 per cent, are under 7 years of age. This 
strikingly shows that there is a marked tendency to crowd the 
work of school-education into the very early years of life, and 
it is therefore of the greater importance to consider what 
should be the nature of this education from a hygienic stand- 
point, in order that the danger which such early attendance 
implies, may be averted. 

What education then may safely be given at such an age ? 
We have already pointed out that in the early years of life the 
powers of observation are alone among the mental functions 



7 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

which are in active operation. To these, then, the instruction 
must be primarily addressed. If the mental activities of 
subsequent years are anticipated, and the reflective powers 
are prematurely stimulated, the result cannot be otherwise than 
disastrous to the mental and physical health of the child. 

Undoubtedly the zeal of elementary school teachers has 
tended in the latter direction, and it is interesting to note that 
in the later forms of school laws, a sounder and more physio- 
logical method is being approached. The "merit grant" 
in infant-schools can now be obtained only on condition 
that simple lessons on objects, and on the phenomena of 
nature, and of common life (which appeal primarily to the 
senses and the powers of observation) are given, attended by 
appropriate and varied occupations. This is a valuable step 
in the right direction, and will require further extension, if 
future generations are to be saved from that stunted growth of 
the mind and body, which premature and excessive stimulation 
of the powers of reflection and memory cannot fail to produce. 

The next period of life is that of boyhood or girlhood 
extending from the 7th to the i4th year or from the appear- 
ance of the permanent teeth to puberty. 

A child seven years old is unable to attend to any one subject 
beyond a limited time. According to Mr. Edwin Chadwick 
a pioneer in all sanitary and social reform, a single lesson be- 
tween the ages of 5 and 7 should last only 15 minutes ; between 
7 and 10 about 20 minutes ; from 10 to 12 about 25 minutes ; 
12 to 1 6 about 30 minutes. These limits are too restricted 
for the higher ages and for interesting subjects, but the 
principle involved is most important. 

The amount of work should always be carefully graduated 
according to age. For children from 7 to 8 years old, work 
should not last longer than 2 J to 3 hours a-day ; from 8 to 10, 
from 3 to 3^ hours ; from 10 to 12, about 4 hours ; from 12 



AGE AND SEX IN RELATION TO SCHOOL-WORK, 73 

to 15, between 5 and 6 hours; and from 15 to 18, never more 
than 8 hours, intervals being allowed for recreation. 

Mr. Edwin Chadwick has maintained that under the " half- 
time " system, children make as good progress as if they 
attended school the whole day. Whether this is confirmed or 
not, there can be no question that the alternation of directed 
manual labour (see page 66), with shorter periods of study, 
would be attended with the greatest advantage to the mental 
and physical development of children. 

If at the earlier ages more than 3 hours' work is required, 
the work becomes too exciting, and children become 
prematurely clever, which involves great risks and no genuine 
gain. Precocious children seldom realise the promise they 
gave. 

It must be carefully remembered that during the period of 
school-life gtowth and development of every organ are, under 
natural conditions, rapidly proceeding, and that, while diligently 
cultivating the brain, the rest of the body must not be neg- 
lected. There is to some extent an antagonism between 
grou'th (i.e., increase in size), and development (i.e., increase in 
structure). The undue and premature elaboration of structure, 
as in mental precocity, involves a stoppage or diminution of 
growth, and ultimately a feebler brain. *We do not wish it 
to be inferred that brains should, so to speak, be allowed to 
lie fallow until their growth is completed, and then have their 
structure elaborated by mental education. This would be as 
impossible as it is undesirable. We only wish to state the 



* For a very valuable detailed discussion of this and other mat- 
ters bearing on the physiological aspect of education, see the article 
by Sir Crich ton Browne, M.D., on "Education and the Nervous, 
System," in CasselPs Book of Health. It is a pity that this Essa.y 
is not published separately for the use of teachers and others in- 
terested in the subject. 



74 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

importance of not over-exciting the juvenile brain, and thus 
causing it to fall short of the size and power it would otherwise 
have attained. The difference has been well stated thus : At 
10 years old we may assume the brain to be a lo-carat brain. 
Push on education and make it rapidly the 24-carat brain it. 
should become only with adult life, and the result will be that 
the total value obtained owing to the smaller amount of brain 
will be much less than if the forcing system had not been 
adopted. 

The evil results of undue excitement of the brain during the 
period of growth are not confined to that organ. The brain 
has great influence over all other functions of the body. A 
fastidious appetite, imperfect digestion, or weak circulation, 
followed by retarded growth of body and general enfeeblement, 
are not uncommon results of hard study, when insufficient 
time is allowed for recreation and other purposes. 

It would be well if every parent would at intervals of three 
months or even oftener have his children weighed and mea- 
sured, keeping a record of the result. 

Such information is easily obtained and would be of im- 
mense value in warning as to the insidious onset of disease, or 
a too rapid increase in stature. It is well known that when a boy 
is growing very rapidly his powers of mental application be- 
come greatly diminished. He is dull and apathetic, and per- 
haps lays himself open to undeserved censure, which migh<- 
have been averted had the parent informed the teacher of the 
rapid growth and consequent necessity for diminution of 
work. Any increase in size beyond 2 to 3 inches a year in- 
volving undue strain on the system, or any sudden stoppage of 
growth (indicating perhaps the onset of consumption or other 
diseases, especially if accompanied by diminished weight) 
should excite apprehension and lead to medical supervision. 

Stoppage of growth or of increase in weight might be due 



AGE AND SEX IN RELATION TO SCHOOL-WORK. 75 

(i) to insufficient food or clothing, the food being required to 
keep up the temperature of the body and no surplus being left 
for purposes of growth ; or (2) to excessive mental work and 
deficient exercise in the open air ; or (3) to the onset of some 
disease. In all cases it requires careful attention even when 
no other indications of disorder are present.* 

Height and Weight of Children. The following tables give 
valuable information respecting the height, weight, and rate 
of growth of boys and girls. They are taken from a most 
valuable paper by Dr. Bowditch, of Harvard University, on 
" The Growth of Children," in the 8th Annual Report of the 
Massachusetts Board of Health for 1877, and I have specially 
arranged them so as to compare boys of different classes, and 
boys with girls. For the figures contained in Table I., Dr. Bow- 
ditch is indebted to Mr. C. Roberts, of London. In each 



* The following remarks of Mr. Sharpe, H. M. Inspector of Train- 
ing Colleges, may be quoted as bearing on this point (Report of 
Committee of Council on Education, 1885-6, page 403) : " l should 
recommend to other colleges a practice, so far as 1 know, pursued 
by only one training college, viz , Westminster, the weighing of 
the students at regular intervals and recording the weights. At the 
beginning of the year 1885, all the students (over a hundred in num- 
ber), with only three exceptions (all of them in their second year), 
increased steadily in weight. The annual inspection took place in 
the fifth month ; after the inspection it was found that only two of 
the second year's students had continued to increase in weight (one 
of whom had been steadily losing weight for three months and had 
begun to recover), and the average loss in weight per student 
during the few weeks preceding the examination was no less than 
3lbs. The experienced vice-principal, Mr. Mansford. has no doubt 
that the loss of weight is solely attributable to the anxiety con- 
nected with the preparation and giving of lessons. This is the only 
form of over-pressure which is to be found in the male training 
colleges, and it would be difficult to find a healthier body of young 
men." 

I may add that in the same college, when students have been 
found for two or three months to decrease in weight (the usual rule 
being a steady increase), I have been asked to examine into their 
physical condition. In several cases this has led to the early de- 
tection of disease, and in this way a break- down has been prevented. 



,6 



w 



ffl 



.0 

be 3 
c p.< 

To 

C O 

o ^ 



<u 



b/D 



p u 

bo 

X! C 
.2 'C 

t 

3 
i 

o 



C ^ 


& c 



1) u 

S -s 

^ -s 



a 



1 i 



S u .> 

bO C 

E; ^ 

HH C ^3 

|D 

2 s X 

<U i-H O 

> O 

^ _^ o 



SCHOOL HYGIENE. 



i 1 



CO 



rH 



co 



S 8 S 



S S 

i " 

^~ 
? 

CO LO 



8 5= 

tr co o 



.S 5 S 



S en 
i> ib 



ID rH CD 
LO t~ CO 



CO CXI CO 



8 S3 



S 8 S 3 



CO & S 



rH CXI 



88 ro 



"8 o & 

S S_^ 

S S3 3 

S S ^ 



S 2 

ib cb 



eg 8 
S S 



oa At 



O CO Lp 
^ S ^ 



I rC 



S 



rH | 



I I I 



I ! 




AGE AND SF.X IN RELATION TO SCHOOL-WORK 



w 



77 



CO 

T3 
3 

I 



O 

w M 





I 



o 

1 

'0 o 

K^ I Yj 

^ Q 

3 T 

<u I 



Total No. of 
bservations. 



2 



S S 

o 6 



8? S 



s a 

Al O 



8 S 



S 

s a 



s s 



S S - 1 



8 S 



ro TO 

1C O3 
CO CD 



2T~s~ 



S3 S 
S fe 



N <NI 



$ S S 



S 

^- TO 



SSI I i 



i * 

w 3 



*l 



R -S 

S 3 

bO " 
1 



S? 8 




I 



a s 



: : 

* I 

* 

S = 

oo 

!. 



78 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

table the heights are measured without shoes, and the weights 
in ordinary in-door clothing. 

Many important particulars can be gathered from 
these tables. Thus the relationship which should hold 
between growth in height and increase in weight is easily 
calculated. 

The ages at which growth is most rapid are easily seen. 
The greatest annual increase of height occurs for girls at 12, 
and for boys at 16 years. The greatest increase of weight foi 
boys occurs at 16, and for girls at 13 years. - 

The influence of town life and labouring class is seen in the 
lower stature at all ages of children of this class. The most 
favoured class has a mean height 2 inches greater than the 
industrial class, the difference attaining a maximum of over 4 
inches at 13 years of age. 

Dr. Bowditch summarises his results as follows : (i) During 
the first twelve years of life boys are from i to 2 inches taller 
than girls of the same age. (2) At about 12 \ years of age, 
girls begin to grow faster than boys, and during their i4th year 
are about one inch taller than boys of the same age. (3) At 
about 14^ years boys again become the taller, girls having at 
this period very nearly completed their growth, while boys 
continue to grow rapidly till 19 years of age. 

The same general results have been obtained in England,. 
Mr. C. Roberts finding that girls of 13 years are as a rule 
taller and heavier than boys at the same age. 

The bearing of the different rates of growth in the two sexes 
on the methods of heahhy education will be discussed in the 
next paragraph. 

The following chart has been copied by permission of 
Messrs. Macmillan from the " Life History Album," edited by 
F. Gallon, F.R.S. It illustrates graphically the same facts as 
have been given in the preceding tables, and the observations, 



GEO_1 
NCHES 



25YR8. 

BS. 



8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 5 




AGED 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25YRS- 
FIG. 18. Chart showing average stature weight, chest girth, and strength of 
both st- xes, from birth to 25 years of age, of the general population of the 
United Kingdom. 

Males Females 

For "stature without shoes in Ibs.,' read inch*** 



80 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

although derived from a different source, support the same 
general conclusions. 

Sex in Education. Most of what has been already stated 
concerning the bearings of age on school-work applies equally 
to boys and girls. It is important to remember however that, 
as already stated, while growth of boys continues till man- 
hood, girls concentrate a great deal of growth in a few years. 

Owing to the relatively greater growth of girls from 12 J to 
14^ or 15, it is particularly important that their height and 
weight should be watched during this period, and any over-strain 
from examinations or other source avoided. A stoppage of in- 
crease in weight or height should receive immediate at- 
tention, and even more important a continuance of growth in a 
girl who has ceased to become heavier may be one of the 
earliest indications of threatened consumption. 

The period of puberty involves greater and more rapid 
changes in girls than in boys, and schooling requires to be 
carefully regulated at this period. Accompanying the changes 
in other organs, great changes must occur in the brain, 
new emotions and new phases of mental activity being 
developed. That the nervous system is unstable at this period 
is shown by the large amount of epilepsy which starts 
about puberty, and the still larger amount of hysteria. 
Insanity again is not uncommon after puberty, very rare 
before it. 

The Massachusetts Board of Health in 1874 issued a cir- 
cular asking teachers, physicians, &c., whether they found that 
puberty increased the liability to suffer from school attendance. 
Of 141 answers received, 120 were in the affirmative. It is 
probable that a carefully regulated school education is benefi- 
cial to girls of 14 to 17 rather than otherwise, and that the 
effects, which are sometimes ascribed to school-work, are more 
commonly due to defective exercise, late hours, and bad at- 



AGE AND SEX IN RELATION TO SCHOOL-WORK. Si 

mosphere, and the excitement of novels, or of a premature 
entry into society. An amount of mental work, which would 
be health 1 ul if followed by active and pleasant exercise, may 
be injurious when exercise is confined to a walk to and from 
school unaccompanied by any " play." 

Undue devotion to music seems to have a specially exciting 
influence on some girls, and prolonged musical exercises are 
never desirable. Emulation in connection with examinations 
is much more likely to be injurious to girls than to boys. 

At certain periods many physicians assert that school atten- 
dance should be temporarily suspended. We are not inclined 
to take this view in the majority of cases. Home lessons 
should be diminished, long walks or calisthenics should 
be stopped, and excitement should be avoided ; but, as a rule, 
school attendance will do no harm. 

Character of Education in relation to Sex. Two opposite 
schools of thought have been vigorously advocated. It is the 
opinion of one that school education should be specially 
adapted to the peculiarities of each sex, while advocates of the 
other school strongly insist on equal and like education of the 
two sexes. Dr. Clarke, in his essay on Sex in Education^ says : 
" None doubt the importance of age, acquirement, idiosyncrasy 
and probable career as factors in classification. Sex goes 
deeper than any of these." We are inclined to admit the 
justice of this, though laying a little more stress on the con- 
sideration that education should be adapted to the individual 
rather than to the sex. If this consideration be kept in mind, 
the absurdity of pressing on girls the study of higher mathema- 
tics, or the severer sciences, will be evident. Doubtless most 
girls are quite competent for these studies, if taken in modera- 
tion and with due consideration for the physical system, but 
the necessity for them is absent, and the time would be much 
better spent in developing a robust physical frame, competent 



82 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

for the practical functions of life. The painter who used up 
all his colours for his background, and left none for the por 
trait, is an apt illustration of the over-educated school-girl, lack- 
ing in practical knowledge and physique. 

The female temperament is more nervous and excitable than 
the male, and the opportunities for counteracting the effects of 
mental work by vigorous muscular exertion are fewer. The 
evils of over-strain occur chiefly in girls between 13 and 18, 
and much danger would be averted if the considerations re- 
specting exercise, to be advanced in the next chapter, were 
acted on in their case. 




CHAPTER XII. 
MUSCULAR EXERCISE AND RECREATION. 

Analogy between Menial and Muscular Exercise. Influence of 
Exercise on the System, Influence on the Brain. Excessive Exer- 
cise. Deficient Exercise. Rules for Exercise. Forms of Exercise 
Gymnastics. Calisthenics. 

THE voluntary muscles of the body contain in their substance 
about one-fourth of the whole volume of blood, and, even dur- 
ing their rest, important heat-producing and other functions 
are carried on in them, though these are rendered much more 
active by exercise. 

Much of what has been said concerning brain exercise 
applies equally to the muscles. Just as the powers of memory, 
observation, judgment, speech, &c., increase by careful cultiva- 
tion, so does muscular power The brain is temporarily 
exhausted by fatigue, and so are the muscles ; it may be per- 
manently injured by excessive and prolonged exertions, and so 
likewise may the muscles, especially the heart-muscle. 

Muscular exercise is important during school-life, because 
of its influence (i) on the general health, and (2) on the 
brain. 

83 G 2 



8 4 



SCHOOL HYGIENE. 



(i.) In consequence of the increased size and strength of 
the muscles produced by systematic exercise, they respond 
more easily to impulses of the will. The action of the lungs is 
increased, and consequently more pure air is inhaled, and 
more impurities are got rid of, while the actual capacity of the 
lungs, as indicated by the girth of the chest, becomes increased 
by well regulated exercise. In this way a flat-chested condi- 
tion may be averted, and a tendency to consumption may be 
eradicated. The action of the skin is increased, and thus 
another means of elimination of impurities is set at work. The 
circulation is improved and rendered more uniform, and the 
production of heat is increased during exercise, in consequence 
of which cold feet and chilblains are avoided. 

The following tables from Maclaren's " Physical Education " 
strikingly illustrate the valuable results obtainable from syste- 
matic gymnastic exercises. 

The first table shows the effect of 7^ months' training of men 
varying in age from 19 to 28, the average age being 24, the 
men having been irregularly selected. 





Weight. 


Chest 
girth. 


Girth ot 
fore-arm. 


Girth of 
upper arm 




Ibs. 


in. 


in. 


in. 


The smallest Gain ... 


5 


I 


i 


* 


The largest Gain ... 


16 


5 


li 


it 


The average Gain ... 


10 


2l 


1 


i? 



The second table shows the effect on two articled pupils, 
aged 1 6 and 20, of a year's steady practice in gymnastic exer- 
cises. 



MUSCULAR EXERCISE AND RECREATION. 



In the year's work the increase was 





Height. 


Weight. 


Chest. 


Fore- 
Arm. 


Upper 
Arm. 


With the younger 


in. 

2 


Ibs. 

21 


in. 


in. 

2 


in. 

2 


With the elder . 


3 


81 


6 


i4 


iV 



(2.) During the period of school-life the brain and muscles 
are both undergoing growth and development. They cannot 
be separated from one another, being intimately in communica- 
tion by means of nerves. There is a motor part of the brain 
corresponding to the muscles, in which are stored ideas of 
weight, distance, resistance, the result of muscular contractions ; 
and from which are carried the voluntary impulses which result 
in muscular exercise. This extensive region of the brain is in 
intimate communication with all the other regions of the brain, 
and at the same time it can attain its full vigour only when the 
whole muscular system is in a well developed and healthy con- 
dition. It is a well-known fact that each nervous centre 
requires external stimuli to develop its potential power. If a 
number of chickens are hatched on a carpet they will run 
about and never attempt to scratch until a little gravel is 
scattered on it. In two Teases the congenital absence of the 
left hand and atrophy of the left arm was found after death to 
be associated with an atrophied condition of the convolution 
of the brain, in which movements of the hand are stated by 
Ferrier to be produced. But where death has occurred some 
years after amputation of the limb of an adult, no alteration in 
the corresponding part of the brain has been found. Hence 
the greater importance of exercise before twenty than after that 
age. The blindness of the fishes living in the dark caves of 
Kentucky is another instance of atrophy of a disused organ, 
and of the corresponding part of the brain. 



86 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

The above considerations render it evident that the de- 
velopment of a considerable portion of the brain is dependent 
o'n muscular exercise, and the non-recognition of this prin- 
ciple has been saved from calamitous results in the past, only 
by the instinctive revelling of children in movements of every 
kind. 

Excessive muscular exercise produces fatigue. If proper 
intervals of rest are not allowed this may end in serious 
disease, though such a result chiefly occurs when, as in clerks, 
a small group of muscles is over-worked, and writer's palsy is 
produced. 

Violent over- exertion, such as occurs in competitive run- 
ning or rowing, is very pernicious. The "broken winded" 
condition in horses is produced in a similar way. Occasionally 
the heart becomes dilated, or spitting of blood is produced. 
Competitive exercises always require careful and graduated 
preparation, and no boy should be allowed to join in them 
without previous medical examination. 

We do not wish our sons to become as muscular as Hercules 
from over-muscular development, nor to be nervous and 
excitable and under-grown from the opposite condition, but 
to have their muscular and nervous systems healthy and in 
proper co-ordination. There is no necessary antagonism 
between mental culture and athleticism, except when the 
latter is indulged to excess. 

The danger of excessive exercise is greatest during the 
period of most rapid growth between the ages of 15 and 17. 
Excessive muscular exercise may then interfere with growth, 
though deficient exercise is to be deprecated. Sometimes a 
boy at school grows irom 6 to 8 inches in a year, and it is 
evident that ail his strength is being expended in this 
direction. 

Deficient exercise during school-life is much commoner 



MUSCULAR EXERCISE AND RECREATION. 87 

than excessive exercise, especially in girls. The general 
health is consequently impaired, digestion is enfeebled, the 
circulation becomes unequal, and nervous irritability and 
sleeplessness often supervene. The tendency to lung diseases, 
especially consumption, is greatly increased. The effects on 
the figure are lamentable. Drooping shoulders, a flat chest, 
stooping gait, and lateral curvature of the spine are natural 
consequences of flabby muscles destitute of tone. In girls 
the tendency to spinal curvature is increased by the tight 
imprisonment of the trunk in corsets which effectually pre- 
vent exercise of the trunk muscles. For girls who are grow- 
ing rapidly, the use of Liebreich's chair, which is adapted to 
the curves of the spinal column, and gives complete rest to the 
spine, is very valuable. (Fig. 19). Reading or other work can be 
continued while resting in the chair. The alternation of such 
rest, with exercises specially adapted to strengthen the mus- 
cles of the back and shoulders, is most important in all cases 
where there is a tendency to spinal curvature, or drooping 
shoulders, or a forward stoop. 




FIG. 19. Chair giving complete spinal support. 



88 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

In taking exercise the following rules should be regarded. 
The clothing should allow free play of the limbs, and ex- 
pansion of the chest, flannel being always worn next the skin. 
Chill, which is so often produced by sitting in a draught after 
perspiration, must be carefully avoided. The exercise must 
be systematic and regular, and never sudden and violent, and 
the amount of exercise must be regulated by individual fitness. 
Every part of the body must be exercised. Exercise must not 
be taken directly after meals. 

It should as far as possible be taken in the open air. The 
fact that the amount of air inspired during exercise is greatly 
increased serves to emphasise this rule, and explains why the 
benefit of girls' calisthenics is greatly diminished by their being 
commonly taken indoors. 

Forms of Exercise. If there is one point more important 
than another it is that exercise should be as varied as possible. 
The spontaneous activity of children is more conducive to 
general strength and healthy brain-growth than any formal 
gymnastics. The latter can never form a complete substitute 
for games. The movements are more rigid, and less varied, and 
consequently sooner produce fatigue, and the competition 
which serves for a stimulus in gymnastics is a very poor sub- 
stitute for the enjoyment accompanying varied play. The 
enjoyable mental excitement of games acts as a stimulant and 
tonic to the heart, accelerating the circulation and helping all 
the bodily functions. 

The more purely recreative physical exercise is, the 
greater the relief from school-work. The tendency to provide 
play-grounds of insufficient size is, in this connection, very 
deplorable, though, when this is unavoidable, gymnastics should 
be resorted to. 

Running, leaping, rowing, swimming, cricket, rackets, tennis, 
&c., all have their place, and are deservedly popular. Boating 



MUSCULAR EXERCISE AND RECREATION. 89 

should T>e restricted to those who can swim. Football scrim- 
mages should not be allowed, and the ball should never be 
taken in the hands. A belt should never be allowed round the 
waist, being one of the commonest causes of rupture. 

Singing, speaking, and reading aloud are forms of muscular 
exercise which might with advantage be more systematically 
adopted. They are most valuable in strengthening the throat 
and lungs, and rendering them less prone to disease. 

Gymnastics were carefully studied in ancient times, the 
Greeks having a perfect system, which was adopted by the 
Romans to a certain extent, though not in its best aspects, and 
among them was confined to the military class and athletes. 
The best modern system is Ling's, or the Swedish system, 
which is founded on anatomical data, and does not seek merely 
muscular development, but a general improvement of circu- 
lation and nerve power, all the parts being brought into 
balanced action. 

Gymnastic exercises should be adapted to the age and phy- 
sical constitution of each pupil. Much injury may be done by 
making all the members of a class go through the same exercises. 
Up to the age of 15 or 1 6 such light gymnastic exercises as are 
described and illustrated in " Sound Bodies for our Boys and 
Girls," by W. Blaikie, if carried out under the superintendence 
of a skilled teacher, are amply .sufficient, and obviate the 
necessity for any complicated apparatus. After this age a 
more advanced course of gymnastic exercises may be the 
means of laying the foundation of permanent health and 
strength. 

Military drill is a useful addition to school routine. It 
serves not only to teach order and promptitude of obedience, 
but is a valuable means of exercise. 

Exercise for Girls in the form of gymnastics, or the school- 
girls' gymnastics, known as calisthenics, is even more important 



90 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

than for boys, inasmuch as, especially in towns, there are for 
them fewer opportunities of play, and they suffer trom improper 
modes of dressing. 

The only advantage calisthenics presents over play is that it 
ensures an equal and regular exercise of muscles. 

It is important, however, that it should be made interesting, 
otherwise much of the benefit is lost. By the use of dumb- 
bells (which should not exceed 2 to 4 Ibs. for girls),elastic bands 
with handles, &c., many varied exercises can be performed. 

Girls suffer much more on account of deficient recreation 
than boys. The formal boarding-school walk on fine days is 
but a travesty on the exercise required, and has little effect in 
stimulating the circulation, or refreshing the mind. A recess 
of half an hour should be allowed in the middle of each morn- 
ing's school-work, during which every girl should be obliged 
to go out and play in fine weather, or assemble for calisthenics 
in wet weather. It should be made impossible to think of 
work during this half-hour. 




CHAPTER XIII. 

REST AND SLEEP. 

Law of Rest and Action. Partial Rest. Complete Rest. Duration 
of Sleep. Rules respecting Sleep. School Dormitories. 

LIFE is made up of alternations of rest and action. Exer- 
cise of any organ of the body is followed by a necessary period 
of repose, during which effete matters are removed by the 
blood, and flesh nutritive material is supplied by the same fluid. 

The only apparent exceptions are the heart and lungs, and 
these in reality obey the universal law, the only difference 
being that their rest is frequent and momentary, while that of 
other organs is at greater intervals and of longer duration. 

The heart, for instance, contracts about once every second, 
but in the intervals of each contraction it rests T 6 T of a second, 
or over 13 hours in the day. 

The necessity for rest can be easily proved in the case of 
the sense of taste. If salt be kept in the mouth for a consider- 
able time, the power of tasting it disappears, and returns in its 
original strength only after several hours. The temporary 
deafness from the noise of machinery, and the fact that after 
looking at a given colour for some time, only its complemen- 
tary colour is visible, are other instances of the same law. 

Rest may be partial or general. 



92 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

Partial rest is obtained by change of occupation, bringing 
into play the activity of other organs. 

The importance of varying school-work at frequent intervals, 
thus exercising different parts of the brain, has been already 
discussed (see page 66). Similarly in the last chapter we have 
emphasized the importance of recreative muscular exercise. By 
these two means, undue pressure of school-work may nearly 
always be prevented. 

Sleep is the only form of complete and general rest. During 
sleep a diminished amount of blood flows through the brain, 
and the functional activity of its higher centres is abrogated. 
If a boy or girl eats and sleeps well, it can scarce be that his 
brain is over-worked. It is a mistake, however, to suppose that 
the evils of excessive mental work can be entirely compensated 
by prolonging sleep. The mental work must be diminished, 
and more time must also be allowed for recreation. 

The average amount of sleep required at 
4 years old is 12 hours. 

7 " 

9 10* 

12-14 9-10 

14-21 9 

Children under 14 should be allowed a little more sleep in 
winter than in summer, and when growing very fast. Punctuality 
in the time of sleep is of great importance, owing to the habit 
acquired. Great drowsiness or wakefulness in children should 
always be looked into. The night screamings to which some 
children are liable may indicate overwork at school, but 
generally they occur apart from school-work in children of a 
very nervous temperament. 

The regulation of children's sleep is a matter which chiefly 
lies with parents, and they may greatly help the school-teacher 
by attention to it. It is unfortunate that growing boys and 



REST AND SLEEP. 93 

girls are, especially in winter, so frequently taken to concerts or 
other evening meetings. No wonder that they appear next 
morning at school with dark rings about their eyes, and 
generally incapacitated for mental application. 

The importance of sleeping in a pure atmosphere, and of 
having, during winter, a flannel jacket or other warm covering 
to the arms and shoulders, need only be referred to. 

School Dormitories should never be used during the day for 
study or other purposes, as thus the atmosphere is rendered 
impure, and irregular habits are induced. The windows 
should be kept widely open during the day in order to ensure 
a thorough and prolonged sweep of fresh air through the 
rooms. Large and airy bedrooms are very desirable, as thus 
the rooms can be more thoroughly ventilated and the pupils 
better supervised. 

The same rules for ventilation and warming apply as in the 
case of the school-rooms. It is obvious that inasmuch as the 
pupil passes at least one-third of each day in his bedroom, its 
atmosphere should be as pure as possible. Even with the 
best means of ventilation this cannot be secured, unless a 
sufficient cubic space is allowed for each pupil. The Govern- 
ment insists on 300 cubic feet for each pauper in our work- 
houses. Surely, at least this amount might be allowed in 
boarding-schools ; whereas beds are frequently placed almost, 
or quite, in contact, and such overcrowding occurs as, if it 
happened in a common lodging-house, would lead to the 
prosecution 01 the landlord. We have seen (page 27) that not 
less than 1500 cubic feet of fresh air are required by each pupil 
per hour. But if the air is changed more than three or four 
times per hour, violent draughts are produced. It follows, 
therefore, that from 375 to 500 cubic feet of space should be 
allowed for each scholar in the bedroom, and preferably the 
latter amount Masters will assert that the ventilating 



94 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

arrangements they have introduced obviate the necessity for 
this amount of space. This is nearly always inaccurate ; and 
even if it were theoretically true, children (as well as their 
seniors) will close up any orifice from which an unpleasant 
draught is perceptible. Dr. Dukes, the Physician to Rugby 
School, urges that taking a school-bed at 3 by 6 feet, the 
superficial area of the bedroom should be 6 by 1 2 feet per 
pupil, and the room 12 feet high. This gives 864 cubic feet 
per head, which, allowing for the air displaced by the furniture 
of the room and the boy himself, leaves about 800 cubic feet 
per head. The poor health and pale appearance of children 
at boarding-schools are much oftener due to crowded bedrooms, 
than to insufficient or inferior food, or to overwork. 

Each pupil should have his own towel and brush and comb. 
The interchange of these frequently leads to the spread of 
ringworm, or of contagious affections of the eye. 



CHAPTER XIV. 
CHILDREN'S DIET. 

Quantity and Quality of Food- Food required for Growth. -Rela- 
tion of Food to Work. Frequency of Under- feeding. Amount 
of Food Required. 

THE diet of children should be generous and abundant. 

There is no danger of giving too much food, if none but simple 
and wholesome dishes are allowed. After 40 it may be broadly 
said that the chief danger in regard to diet is of over-feeding, 
under 20 of under-feeding. It must be remembered that 
during youth, and up to the age of 25, physiological processes 
are much more active than at a later period ; freer exercise is 
usually taken, and, in addition, food is required not only to 
supply force for carrying on the functions of the body, but also 
for purposes of growth. Children have to make new tissues 
as well as to keep in repair those already established. Also as 
their bodies expose more surface, in proportion to size, than 
adults, they require a proportionately larger amount of food 
to compensate for loss of heat. 

It is only after waste of tissues and heat loss have been pro- 
vided for, that any surplus of nutriment goes to the further 
growth of the body. Given that the food supply is scanty, one 
of two things must happen : growth will be impeded, and chil- 
dren will be stunted specimens of humanity ; or some of the 
95 



96 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

organs of the body, as the brain, or muscles, or bone, wi3 suffer 
in functional activity, and may eventually become the actual 
seat of disease. 

The younger an animal, the more easily is it starved ; and 
the more actively growing are its organs, the more seri- 
ously injured by starvation ; and the same applies to human 
beings. 

Apart from the food required for growth and development, 
the close relationship between food and work must not be for- 
gotten in the case of children as well as of the adult. Work 
can no more be done by a child without food than by a steam- 
engine without fuel. The more brain-work a child does, 
the more food he uses up. It is a great fallacy to suppose that 
food is less necessary for the brain-worker than for the navvy. 
Each metabolises (roughly speaking oxidises) a large amount 
of combustible material, which must be supplied by food. 
The navvy,however,commonly acquires his combustible material 
with greater ease than the brain-worker, owing to his better 
digestion. 

Hence the importance of not allowing half-starved children 
to be unduly burdened with mental work is evident. Even 
though they may with an effort succeed in their studies, it is at 
the expense of a diminutive stature and feeble muscles. It is 
to be hoped that the practice of giving penny dinners to chil- 
dren of Board Scho ols in poorer districts may extend. A still 
better plan would be to give them a mug of milk and slice of 
bread before the morning's work begins. 

It is unhappily the case that the children even of wealthy 
people are frequently underfed. A certain amount is appor- 
tioned at each meal, and a lecture on the evils of greediness 
follows a request for more. We hold that a healthy child's 
appetite is the best guide as to the amount of food required, if 
only the food is plain and wholesome. He might surfeit him- 



CHILDREN S DIET 97 

self with rich pastry, or cakes, but hardly with porridge and 
milk. 

The danger of under-feeding is especially great among girls, 
a good appetite being not uncommonly regarded by them as 
something to be ashamed of. Girls between the ages of 14 and 
20 often surfer from a species of chronic starvation, having got in- 
to the habit of relying on bread and butter and puddings, to the 
almost complete exclusion of meat, or other nitrogenous fi.^d. 
Much weakness and ill-health in after life are ascribable to 
this cause. 

According to Dr. De Chaumont (Conference on School 
Hygiene at Health Exhibition), for a child weighing iooi6s. 
(who would probably be 15 years old, see chart, page 79), 
about 3 ozs. of albuminate (flesh-producing) food, 2^ ozs. ot 
fat, 1 2 ozs. of carbohydrates (starch and sugar), and about f oz. 
of mineral matter are required per diem. In order to obtain 
the above amount of albuminate material, 6 ozs. of meat would 
be required, unless cheese, legumens (beans, peas, &c.), or rnilk 
are freely taken. It may be convenient to remember that 
bread contains about 8 per cent, albuminates (and 50 per cent, 
starch), meat 15 per cent, albuminates, cheese over 30 per cent, 
and peas and beans generally 22 per cent. Most dietaries con- 
tain abundance of starch and sugar, but are deficient in fat. This 
deficiency is a most important matter. If children will not eat the 
fat of meat, then dripping, butter, and suet puddings are useful. 

Children's diet should be varied and palatable. The intervals 
between mea's should be regular and not too long. The food 
should not be allowed to be bolted, but carefully chewed. 
Milk should form an important part of all children's diet. 
Alcohol should not be given in any form, unless under medical 
responsibility. The teeth should be carefully supervised : over- 
crowding of the permanent teeth should be prevented by the 
dentist's aid, and cavities should receive early attention. 

H 



98 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

The water supplied at school should be pure, and absolutely 
above suspicion. Impurities may be due to its being derived 
from an impure source, as a shallow well, or to impurities 
acquired in transit through the pipes, or to the cistern allowing 
contamination of the water, either through its being uncovered, 
or having its waste-pipe connected with some part of the 
drainage system. The filter should be frequently cleansed, 
or it may do more harm than good. 



CHAPTER XV. 
CHILDREN'S DRESS. 

Amount of Clothing required. Relation of Clothing to Food. The 
Hardening Process.- Distribttlion of Clothing. Rules respecting 
Clothing. 

i\ CERTAIN temperature of the surface of the body (about 
98-5 Fahr.) is necessary for the maintenance of health, and 
from this it never varies more than 18. This temperature is 
the result of the chemical processes going on in the body, 
the fuel for which is supplied by the food taken. Food being 
deficient, the body-temperature would necessarily fall, if there 
were no reserve of combustible material stored up in the 
tissues. 

It is evident that heat may be economised, and thus within 
certain limits the amount of food required may be diminished 
by preventing some of the loss of heat from the body. About 
o to 90 per cent of this loss being by the skin, clothing plays 
an important part in preventing loss of heat. 

Clothing should prevent as far as possible radiation and con 
duction of heat, but not evaporation of the perspiration. The 
vnaterial which is in these respects best, both for summer and 
winter wear is wool, which should always be worn next the 
?kin ; the thickness, and not the material, being altered accord- 
ing to the external temperature. 

99 H 2 



100 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

The amount of clothing for children should be sufficient to 
prevent any sensation of cold. Excessive clothing may make 
children tender by increasing the tendency to catch cold, 
owing to its exciting perspiration, and to the fact that the extra 
clothing is often thrown off at irregular intervals. The effect 
of wearing a thick scarf round the neck is a well-known 
instance of this. 

A deficient amount of clothing is even more dangerous. 
The attempt is commonly made to " harden" children to bear 
exposure to cold with bare arms and legs. The consequences 
of this hardening theory are most calamitous ; not a few 
children are hardened out of the world, and those who survive 
suffer permanently, either in growth or constitution. The 
dwarfishness of Laplanders and Esquimaux is an illustration of 
this principle. Children produce heat less freely, and lose it 
more quickly, than adults, hence the great mortality of children 
in cold climates during the winter months. 

Liebig first clearly explained the importance of clothing, say- 
ing : " Our clothing is, in reference to the temperature of the 
body, merely an equivalent for a certain amount of food." It 
will be easily understood, therefore, how deficient clothing, like 
deficient food, may produce stunted growth, or lay the founda- 
tion for disease, or bring latent disease into activity. 

Children's clothing should be of such a character that the 
warmth is uniformly distributed. No extra amount of chest 
protection will prevent bronchitis or pneumonia, if the legs and 
feet are cold. The adoption of leggings and sleeves for young 
children should always be insisted on. Thin loots are espe- 
cially objectionable. There is a great sympathy between the 
feet and the respiratory tract. Chest affections are frequently 
due to cold and damp feet. The boots should be thick enough 
to keep the feet dry and warm. It is advisable, in some cases, 
especially, for girls to bring a dry pair of stockings to school. 



CHILDREN'S DRESS. 101 

Damp garments should be laid aside at once on reaching 
home, and the teacher should never allow a scholar to remain 
in school with wet clothes. 

The practice of wearing thicker outside garments while in 
the warm school-room is very objectionable. The skin becomes 
relaxed and perspiration occurs, and it only requires the sub- 
sequent exposure on the journey home to ensure a severe 
catarrh. 

The clothing should not be changed according to the 
calendar, but according to the state of the weather. 

The wearing of summer-clothing late into autumn, and the 
assuming of light outer-garments and under-clothing as soon as 
a fine day in spring appears, are very dangerous for children. 

Moist cold is a good conductor of heat, and the damp chilli- 
ness of an early November requires as warm and thick clothing 
as the dry, clear cold of January. 

Tight clothing of any kind should be avoided. It interferes 
with free movement and so prevents proper exercise. 

Tight corsets are particularly objectionable, and belts round 
the waist. Tight sleeves and skirts prevent free movements of 
the limbs. Stockings should be supported by suspenders and 
not by garters. Tight boots destroy the natural elasticity of 
the movements, besides interfering with the circulation and 
thus causing cold feet. High-heeled boots produce an uncer- 
tain and ungraceful gait in girls ; they throw the weight of the 
body on the front part of the feet, disturbing its balance, and 
tending to produce spinal curvature. The soles of shoes 
should be broader than the feet, the heels low and broad, and 
the soles should be thick enough to keep out all damp. 



CHAPTER XVI. 
BATHS AND BATHING. 

Necessity for Cleanliness. School Baths and Swimming. 

IN previous chapters, the use of food and clothing in pre- 
venting loss of heat and maintaining a uniform temperature 
has been briefly discussed. In this chapter we wish briefly to 
impress the fact that the skin, by the proper use of water, may 
be brought into such a robust condition that the sudden alter- 
nations of temperature to which children are necessarily ex 
posed, become comparatively free from danger. 

No school education is complete which does not teach chil- 
dren the necessity for a clean skin. A dirty condition of the 
person strongly favours the incidence of infectious disease, as 
well as helps to produce that unpleasant odour which com- 
monly belongs to the air of a school-room full of scholars. 

The disuse of soap and cold water to the skin renders the 
cutaneous blood-vessels deficient in tone, and thus favours the 
production of chills. Where morning cold baths are not 
well borne by children, sponging with a wet towel, followed 
by friction with a dry rough towel, forms a good substitute. 

It is impossible, even if it were desirable, always to keep 
children in warm rooms. They play about in cold corridors, 
or other places exposed to cold currents of air, and if their 
102 



BATHS AND BATHING. 103 

skin is lacking in tone, a sore throat or bronchitis may be the 
result. 

School bathing is very desirable, though arrangements are 
seldom made for it. Schools containing several hundred boys 
can hardly be regarded as complete unless they possess a 
swimming-bath of their own, or one in some way open to 
them. Many unfortunate accidents would be prevented, and 
much gain to the health and happiness of childrtn would 
result, if they were taught to swim. A boy accustomed to 
plunge into cold water (i.e. at 50 to 6o Q , not 32), is much 
less likely to suffer from alternations of temperature than other 
children, and, if by chance he should get wet through, is less 
liable to be chilled or laid up by fever. 

Swimming combines the advantages of bathing and exercise. 
A plunge into running water is more liable to produce cramp, 
or dangerous chilling of vital organs, than into the water of a 
swimming bath, as, in the former case, the water around the 
swimmer is constantly being changed, and so a greater abstrac- 
tion of heat from the body occurs. 

School bathing should always be under strict supervision. 
Children should not be allowed to loiter in undressing ; they 
should never be allowed to remain in the water until chattering 
of teeth, or blueness of lips or nails is produced ; and tne bath 
should not be taken within two hours of a meal. 



CHAPTER XVII. 
EYESIGHT IN RELATION TO SCHOOL LIFE. 

Structure of the Eye. Causation of Long and Short Sight. Use of 
Eyes for near Objects. Inadequate Light. Badly-printed Books. 
Fine Needlework. Influence of General Health on Eyesight. 

IN order to understand the influence of school-life on eyesight 
the following facts relating to the structure of the eye are 
important. 

The eye is enveloped throughout the greater part of its 
circumference by a dense white coat (the sclerotic), the trans- 
parent and more convex cornea enveloping the smaller moiety 
in front. (Fig. 20;. Inside the sclerotic is a black vascular layer 
(the choroid), which serves to absorb excessive rays of light, and 
within this is spread out the delicate meshwork of the retina, 
which receives impressions of light and conveys them to the 
brain. The interior of the eyeball is occupied by a transparent 
gelatinous material in its posterior part, and a watery material 
in front, between which lies the delicate lens of the eye, 
which is capable of being altered in shape by the action of 
minute ciliary muscles. (3, Fig. 20). 
104 



EYESIGHT IN RELATION TO SCHOOL LIFE. 



105 



In the normal eye, rays of light coming from a distance (/.<?., 
practically parallel rays) are refracted by the passive lens and 
media of the eye, and brought to a focus at the most sensitive 
part of the retina, without any muscular effort. Thus, vision of 
distant objects represents rest for the eyes, and exertion of its 
muscles comes into play only for near vision. 




10 



FlG. 20 Vertical section of the eyeball. 

I, Sclerotic ; 2, choroid ; 3, ciliary muscle ; 4 cornea ; 5, iris ; 6, aqueous 
humour ; 7, lens ; 8, vitreous humour ; 9, retina ; 10, optic nerve. 

The divergent rays of light from a near object are brought 
to a focus on the retina by the action of the ciliary muscle, 
which renders the lens more convex, and thus capable of 
refracting the light more powerfully. The effect of an increased 
convexity of lens in bringing divergent rays of light sooner to 
a focus is shown in Fig. 21. If for any distance under 2oft. 
the eye were not able thus to accommodate its condition, a 
blurred and incomplete image would be formed on the retina. 



io6 



SCHOOL HYGIENE. 



A child with normal eyes ought to be able to read this page, 
in a good light at the distance of 40 inches, and at all inter- 
vening distances down to 4 inches. Any child who cannot 




FIG. 21. Diagram showing effect of a biconvex lens on rays of light. 

i. Focus of parallel rays ; 2, focus of divergent rays ; 3, focus of divergent 

rays brought nearer by more convex lens. 

read it as far as 15 inches off should have his eyes examined 
by a competent eye-surgeon. A rough test may be also made 
by means of the following letters : The Z should be distin- 
guishable at a distance of 50 feet, D at a distance of 40 feet, Y 
at 25 feet, H at 20 feet, and L at 10 feet. 




Y H 



50 feet. 40 feet. 25 feet. 20 feet. 10 feet. 

Three chief defects of vision occur in children ; in the first, 

he rays of light are brought to a focus behind the retina 



EYESIGHT IN RELATION TO SCHOOL LIFE. 107 

(hypermetropia) ; in the second, the rays of light are brought 
to a focus in front of the retina (myopia) ; and in the third, 
the different axes of the eyes do not bring rays of light to 
a focus at the same point (astigmatism). 

Hypermetropia or Long-sight, in which the eye is shorter from 
behind forwards than usual, is really in a moderate degree a 
normal condition in childhood, but if present in a high degree 
represents an arrest of development. Parallel rays of light 
(i.e., those from a distance) are brought to a focus behind the 
retina. (Fig. 22.) Thus, when the eye is at rest there is not 




FIG 22. Sec ion of hyp ermetropic eye, 

R, the origin of divergent rays of light ; F, the focus beyond the eyeball ; 
LL, convex glasses to be worn by hypermetrope ; F' the focus of rays of 
light on retina, showing influence of L. 

distinct vision even of distant objects for the long-sighted. 
The ciliary muscles must always act and accommodate the eye, 
and in moderate degrees they succeed in concealing the con- 
dition. It is evident, however, that this constant strain on the 
muscles, during the waking hours, must be injurious ; and during 
the use of the eye for near vision, as in reading or needlework, 
the strain on the ciliary muscles becomes still greater. Conse- 
quently, congestion and redness, with watering of the eyes, 
result. 

The lids tend to stick together in the morning, owing to 
increased secretion. If close work is insisted on, in severe 
cases <?' -ziness and total inability to distinguish letters are pro- 



108 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

duced, and, in some cases, nausea, or even vomiting. The 
child is worse in the morning than the evening, as his ciliary 
muscles have to adjust themselves to the strain imposed on 
them. Mistakes are frequently made, and the child is often 
thought to be idle. In this, as in other abnormal conditions of 
the eye, it is very common for the child to have been repeatedly 
punished by his teachers for supposed obstinacy or stupidity. 

Long-sight is often confused with short-sight, because, in the 
former, as in the latter, the child gradually holds his book 
nearer and nearer to his eyes. This is because spasm of the 
ciliary muscle (causing accommodation beyond the necessities 
of the case) is produced by the efforts to see small objects at 
moderate distances, and because the large size of the image of 
the print obtained by holding the book nearer partially com- 
pensates for its imperfect definition. 

In the effort at accommodating long-sighted eyes for near 
and small objects, those external muscles of the eyeballs 
which turn them in towards the nose, are brought into exces- 
sive action. A convergent squint may be thus produced, at 
first occasional, afterwards becoming constant, and one eye 
being usually worse than the other. The squint is worse when 
the child is tired or ill, but any squint in a child 4 to 7 years 
old should receive immediate attention. 

Myopia or Short-sight is the exact opposite of the last con- 
dition, the eye from before backwards being too long, so that 
rays of light from a distance are brought to a focus in front of 
the retina. In order that they may be focussed on the retina, 
the affected child finds it necessary to hold objects near his 
eye, thus making the rays of light more divergent. 

Myopia is distinguished from hypermetropia by the 
fact that distant vision is improved by a concave lens, 
and by the fact that the smallest type can be read 
easily, provided it be held closely to the eyes. 



EYESIGHT IN RELATION TO SCHOOL LIFE. IOQ 

The fact of a person seeing equally as well, at a distance, 
through a convex lens, as without, certainly indicates 
hypermetropia. 




FIG. 23. Section of myopic eye. 

R, the origin of divergent rays of light ; F, the focus of these in front of retina ; 
LL, concave lens to be worn by myope ; F', focus of rays of light on retina, 
showing influence ot L. 

Myopia is essentially due to the soft and yielding character 
of the tunic of some children's eyes, enabling the pressure of 
the muscles during accommodation to elongate the globe. The 
condition when started may remain stationary, but in some cases 
the continuanceof the cause increases the elongation of the globe. 
This may be followed by stretching and atrophy of the choroid, 
or even detachment of the retina, and other evil consequences, 
resulting in partial or complete destruction of vision. 

The tendency to short-sight is generally strongly hereditary, 
but it may be acquired, and it is chiefly during school-life that 
this occurs. Jager, in 1861, first called attention to the 
remarkable development of myopia during school-life. Dr. 
Cohn, of Breslau, in 1865, took up the subject. Having 
examined the eyes of 10,060 children, he found 1,072 myopic, 
239 hypermetropic, 23 astigmatic, and 396 whose vision was 
impaired from the effects of previous disease. As his testing 
was by lenses only, he probably underrated the myopia. In 
elementary village-schools he found 1*4 per cent, of myopia, 
in town elementary-schools, 6*7 per cent. ; in intermediate 



110 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

schools, 10*3 per cent. ; high schools, 197 ; and in gymnasia, 
26*2 per cent. Among medical students he found the propor- 
tion in the first year of study 52 per cent, in the last year 64 
per cent. At Tubingen, Gartner found that of 600 theological 
students, 79 percent, were myopic. 

Although Germany has- until lately had the greatest preva- 
lence of defects of vision, it has by no means a monopoly oi 
them. In all the cases investigated, the fact comes out that the 
youngest classes have the fewest myopics, and the oldest most. 
Drs. E. G. Loring and R. H. Derby, of New York, found that 
in the lowest classes 3*5 and in the highest 2678 per cent 
were myopic. 

The statistics furnished by the Philadelphia Committee, of 
which Dr. Risley was chairman, are peculiarly valuable, as a 
complete examination of the eye (barring the use of Atropine) 
was made in each case. 2,422 eyes were examined by the 
committee, and 174 afterwards by Dr. Jackson, of West 
Chester, on the same plan, each case requiring on an average, 
twenty-eight minutes' examination. 

The accompanying chart, from Mr. B. Carter's pamphlet on 
"Eyesight in Schools," shows the result. (Fig. 24). The horizontal 
lines give the percentages, the vertical lines the different classes. 
The myopia was found to increase from 4-27 per cent, in primary 
classes (average age, 8J years) to 19*33 per cent, in normal 
classes, while the hypermetropia diminished from 88' 1 1 per cent, 
to 66*84 per cent., the proportion of normal vision (emmetropia) 
remaining nearly stationary. It is evident, from the statistics 
just advanced, that school-life has, under conditions which 
commonly prevail, a most deleterious influence on eyesight. 

Astigmatism is a condition of the eyes in which the curva- 
ture of the cornea is not uniform, and consequently rays 
of light passing through it in different meridians have a 
different focus. The lines running in a given direction 



EYESIGHT IN RELATION TO SCHOOL LIFE. 



Ill 



look blurred as all the horizontal or all the upright, &c. 
Children suffering from this condition often appear stupid 
or inattentive, because there is in this defect what has been 
aptly called " slow sight "; a word is not recognised quickly on 
100 

95 

Hypermetropia, 88' 11 % 90 
85 
80 
76 
70 



65 



H., 66-8*. 





50 




45 




40 




35 




30 




25 




20 




15 




10 


Normal vision or 
Emmetropia. 7'01/o 
Myopia, 4'27% 


5 





Average Age 



8'b 11-5 IH 17-5 
Pri- Secou- Gram- N"or- 
mary dary, mar. mal. 



School. 

FIG. 24, Chart showing prevalence of near-sight, far-sight, and normal 
vision at different ages. 

first sight, but " it seems to come to them afterwards." The 
defect is commonly ascribed to near-sightedness, but ordinary 
convex lenses will not remedy it ; lenses, the curve of which is 
specially adapted to each meridian of the eye, being required. 



112 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

The causes at work during school-life which tend to produce 
defects of vision may be classed under the five following heads! 

(i.) T\\e prolonged exertion of the eyes involved in seeing near 
objects. School- work usually lasts from four to six hours, and 
the home-lessons sometimes nearly as long. During a great 
part of this time, the accommodating apparatus of the child's 
eyes is being strained ; the tissues of the eyes being soft and 
compressible, evil results are apt to occur, especially when there 
is a hereditary tendency to defects of vision. Three hours' 
good work is always better than five hours of indifferent work. 

The posture of the scholar is very important. He should 
not be allowed to lean forward with a bent head. In writing 
we have a good instance of the principles involved, and the 
practice to be followed. The movements required are of a 
complicated character, and, like the complicated movements 
concerned in speech and walking, should be automatically 
performed. In fact, the more automatic and the less conscious 
the movements become, the greater is the degree of 
precision attained. Hence, as in piano-playing, where the 
pupil is required to look at the music and not at the keys, the 
pupil who is writing should be required to sit erect, and 
directly facing the desk, and should fix his attention on the 
matter to be written, rather than on the movements of the 
fingers. The desk should be at a proper angle to the eyes, 
and the eyes should not be allowed to come nearer than 
12 inches from the book or slate. The copy-book should be 
aslant, to allow for the bend in the writing ; otherwise a twisted 
position is necessary. 

(2) An inadequate amount of light, or an ill-directed light, 
causes an undue strain on the eyes. The amount of window 
area required, and the direction of the light admitted, have 
been already discussed (page 18). It is probable that the 
preparation of home-lessons in semi-darkness is responsible for 
much injury to the eyes. 



EYESIGHT IN RELATION TO SCHOOL LIFE. 113 

Cohn in his investigations found that the narrower the street 
in which the school stood, the higher the opposite houses, and 
the lower the storey in which lessons were given, the 
greater the number of cases of myopia among elementary 
scholars. He proposed that 30 square inches of glass (not 
including the window frames) should be allowed for every 
square foot of floor-area. 

(3.) Badly printed text and other books produce the same 
result. The type should be clear and large, Roman being 
much better than Gothic type. The construction of such let- 
ters as h and b, v and n should be especially precise. 

The following words represent well-known sizes of type : 
Double Pica. Great Primer. Pica. 

No type smaller than pica should 

Small Pica. Bourgeois. Minion. Pearl. Brilliant. 
be used while teaching children to*. 

Cohn proposes that the type of ordinary journals should be 
4 mm. or j- inch in height, though M. Javal thinks it may be 
allowed to be 2 mm. The thickness of down and up-strokes, 
the spaces between letters and words and between lines, and 
the length of lines all require attention. 

Letter-press derived from a worn-out fount gives an imperfect 
impression of the letters. The loops of a and e, of b dp g are 
apt to form a black spot ; long letters become broken, and fine 
up-strokes are imperceptible. 

Books for children should not be too large and heavy, the 
spaces between the letters and between words and lines should 
be relatively wide, and the lines not too long. The reading or 
writing-book should be placed at a distance of twelve to fifteen 
inches from the eyes. The most agreeable tint of paper is a 
cream-colour or a pale blue. It is inadvisable to gloss the 
sheets, as this produces a dazzling reflection. 
I 



114 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

It is important that too small a handwriting should not 
be allowed, and that neither writing nor reading should be 
permitted in the dim light of evening. 

Pale ink and greasy slates are very trying to the eyes. 

The letters on many maps in schools are most trying to the 
eyes, the lettering not only being fine, but the maps having 
often been printed from old and worn plates. Maps should 
contain as few data as possible, teaching by wall-maps and 
outline maps being preferable. In writing lessons, the character 
of the writing material used is of some importance, especially 
on dull winter days. Thus the furthest distance at which a 
specimen of slate-pencil writing was recognisable, as compared 
with a specimen of lead-pencil writing of the same size, was as 
7 to 8, while the ratio of lead-pencil to pen and ink legibility was 
7 to 8, and of slate writing to pen and ink 3 to 4. The bearing 
of this on the hygiene of the eye is evident ; pen and ink writing 
should be used where possible. Also pale ink, or ink which 
turns black only after a time, should be abolished from school. 

(4.) Needlework is a too frequent cause of defective vision in 
girls. Sewing is more trying to the eyes than any work that 
boys have to do. In ordinary coarse calico there are about 
70 threads to an inch, and what is considered good work con- 
sists in taking up 4 threads, 2 in front and 2 behind the cotton ; 
while in moderately fine linen, as a shirt-front, there are 120 
threads to an inch, so that the sempstress has to work to eV inch, 
a much smaller distance than the finest print. 

The sewing required of children should be neat and accurate, 
but not too fine, and sewing should not be prolonged, nor under- 
taken in a bad light. Where possible, the light should come 
from above for needlework, as for drawing lessons, and such 
lessons should be avoided by gas-light. Needlework and 
drawing and writing lessons should always, preferably, be given 
during the brightest hours of the day. Lace-work taxes the 



EYESIGHT IN RELATION TO SCHOOL LIFE. 115 

eyes severely, and may lead to absolute loss of vision. Working 
at night on black dresses is most injurious. Scarlet materials 
are somewhat trying to the eyes, and are not allowed under 
the London School Board ; blue is to be preferred. 

(5.) The condition of the general health produced by 
insufficient exercise or food, and the influence of a vitiated 
atmosphere, powerfully favour the production of defective 
vision. So, likewise, does the occurrence of catarrhal or other 
affections of the eye, as after measles, diphtheria, and scarlet 
fever. 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

COMMUNICABLE DISEASES IN SCHOOLS. 

Moral Duty of Parents and Medical Men. Symptoms of Onset of 
Infectious Diseases. Rules for Guidance of Teachers, Duration 
of Infection. Isolation of Healthy Members of Household. 
Diseases from Insanitary Schools. Question of Closing Schools 
for Epidemics. Management of Injectious Diseases in Boarding 
Schools. Other Communicable Diseases. Ringworm. Itch. 

THE question of infection is not of such vital moment in 
a day-school as in a boarding-school, but still it is of the 
utmost importance that both teachers and parents should be 
cognisant of the general facts bearing on this question. An 
error on the part of the parent, in sending a child to school 
too early during convalescence, or on the part of the teacher, 
in failing to recognise the early symptoms of a fever, may lead 
to rapid spread of the disease, and a thorough disorganisation 
of school-life. 

On the part of the parent or guardian an increased sense of 
moral obligation is much needed. .Too often the mother is 
only anxious that the child should return to school as speedily 
as possible, regardless of the evil consequences to his school- 
fellows ; or again, the existence of a case of infectious disease 
in the house is concealed, in order that other children from 
the same house may not be forbidden to^ attend school. 
116 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASES IN SCHOOLS. II 7 

On the other hand, the teacher must never relax rules for 
particular cases. A fixed time must elapse before return is 
allowed (see below), and this must be adhered to even though, 
in exceptional cases, an earlier return would be unattended 
with danger. 

Family doctors should, in like manner, have regard to the 
important and wide-spread interests involved, and always 
name, as the earliest period for return to school, a date when 
every possibility of infection is past. 

We have briefly to consider in this chapter 

(a) Infectious diseases communicable from one child to 
another. 

(&) Diseases, like typhoid fever, which are due to local 
insanitary conditions, and 

(c) Certain contagious diseases of the skin and eye. 

Specific infectious diseases may arise in connection with 
school-life, from the attendance of children at school who 
are either (i) suffering from the early symptoms of, or (2) 
are convalescing from infectious disease, or (3) who 
although healthy come from homes in which infectious 
disease is present. 

The first and second of these causes, unfortunately, not 
infrequently exist, especially in the case of measles, whooping 
cough, mumps, scarlet fever, and diphtheria. It is essential 
to the elimination of these causes, that teachers and parents 
should be familiar with (i) the symptoms indicating the onset, 
and (2) the duration of infection in these diseases. 

Onset of Infectious Diseases. In each infectious disease 
an interval elapses between the reception of the specific 
poison, and the development of the earliest symptoms, known 
as the period of incubation, or hatching. During this time 
the patient may be in fair health and is not infectious^ accord- 
ing to the majority of medical authorities. 



n8 



SCHOOL HYGIENE. 



With the onset of the earliest symptoms, he becomes a 
centre of infection, though usually not so dangerously as a 
few days later. The period of incubation of the various 
fevers is shown in the following table : 



Disease. 


Begins usually on the 


But may possiblv be 
at any period 
between 


Scarlet Fever .. 


4th dav. 


i & 7 days. 


Diphtheria 


2nd 


2 & C 


Small pox 


1 2th 


I & 14 


Chicken pox 


1 4th 


10 & 18 


Typhus Fever 
Typhoid Fever. 


I2th 

2ISt 

1 2th- 1 4th 


I & 21 

I & 28 ,. 

jo & 14 


Rotheln 


1 4th 


12 & 1 8 ,, 




iQth 


l6 & 24 , 


Whooping Cough... 


i4th 


7 & 14 



Following the period of incubation, come the premonitory 
symptoms, which usually are somewhat sudden in onset. 

In Scarlet Fever the child, as a rule, vomits and becomes 
extremely feverish, at the same time complaining of sore 
throat. Any child at school who is sick, and has a hot dry 
skin, should be immediately sent home. Within 24 hours a 
punctiform red rash appears on the chest, soon becoming a 
scarlet blush, and spreading to other parts. Some cases are 
so slight that they may come to school throughout, and be dis- 
covered only by the occurrence of peeling or dropsy due to chill 
affecting the kidneys, which may occur after the mildest cases. 

In Diphtheria, after a day or two of languor and sore throat, 
white patches appear on the tonsils and contiguous parts, 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASES IN SCHOOLS. . 119 

which in severe cases join together to form a continuous 
membrane. Smaller white patches, due to the condition called 
ulcerated throat (follicular tonsillitis), are often confused with 
the much more severe disease, diphtheria. Both, however, are 
extremely contagious by inhalation of the breath, and, undoubt- 
edly, are frequently spread in schools, when mild cases have 
been overlooked. The presence of sore throat and feverish - 
ness, would always justify the teacher in sending a scholar 
home, with a note to its parent. 

Small-pox comes on with severe pain in the loins, sickness, 
and shivering. At the end of 48 hours, a hard, pimply rash 
appears, and then the patient usually feels better for a while. 
A patient with ordinary small-pox, would be too ill to attend 
school ; but the modified small-pox, which occurs in those 
partially protected by vaccination, is a much milder complaint, 
and in one case, known to the writer, a boy attended school 
with it, being supposed to have a " spring rash." In such a case 
small-pox would be likely to spread among those who had 
been imperfectly or unsuccessfully vaccinated. 

Chicken-pox may come on with hardly any premonitory 
symptoms, except slight feverishness. The rash comes out in 
24 hours at first pimples, but speedily becoming clear 
vesicles. There may be some difficulty in diagnosing from 
modified small-pox, though the rash in the latter seldom or 
never appears on the scalp, as it does in chicken-pox. 

Measles comes on with all the symptoms of a severe cok 1 in 
the head, with an unusual amount of fever. At the end of 72 
hours, red blotchy spots appear on the face, hands, and other 
parts, and rapidly spread, tending to assume crescentic 
arrangements. 

Rothdn or German Measles has a rash somewhat like that 
of measles. There is no nasal catarrh, however, and always a 
sore throat, similar to, but less severe than, that of scarlet- 



120 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

fever. It is always a slight complaint, and is sometimes 
mistaken for the rose-rash due to indigestion, &c., a mistake 
which may lead to serious results in large schools. In all 
doubtful cases, the safest plan is to act as if it were the 
infectious complaint. 

Mumps comes on with feverishness and pain near the ear, 
followed by enlargement of the parotid salivary gland. This 
causes bulging out at the side of* the neck and in frojit of the 
ear, by which means it can be distinguished from glandular 
enlargement due to other causes. 

As a rule both sides are affected, but occasionally only one. 

Whooping Cough is a disease in which the characteristic 
cough does not come on for a week or two, but the cough 
appears to be simply due to bronchial catarrh. It is unfortun- 
ate that during this unrecognisable stage (unless by the history 
of infection) the disease can be communicated to others. At 
the end of 7 to 14 days the patient begins to cough till he is 
out of breath, and then draws in his breath with a peculiar 
crowing noise or whoop. Every teacher should be familiar 
with this whoop, and send any child home who has it, or who 
even without it has a cough severe enough to make him sick. 

What has been said about the onset of common infectious 
diseases may be summarised for the practical use of the 
teacher as follows : 

(i.) Whenever a child appears at school with a suspicious- 
looking rash, or if he is sick or becomes feverish and ill, send 
him home at once with a note to his parents. 

(2.) A bad sore-throat, with feverishness, might indicate 
scarlet fever, diphtheria, German measles, or a simple sore- 
throat. In any case send tie patient home, and ask the 
mother to keep him away from school until the true nature of 
the complaint becomes certain. 

(3.) If a child is suffering from a severe cold, with sneezing 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASES IN SCHOOLS. 121 

and redness of the eyes, it mny mean an influenza coM or 
measles. As both are contagious, the child should be sent 
home. 

(4.) A swelling in front of, and below, the ear, nearly always 
means mumps while a paroxysmal cough, making the child 
sick or bleed at the nose, or become blue in the face, generally 
means whooping-cough. In all doubtful cases, act as though it 
were certain that the case was an infectious one. 

Duration of Infection. It is important to know at what 
period, after the onset of an infectious disease, a child may 
return to school. This should theoretically coincide with the 
end of the period of infection, but as it is wise in all cases to 
allow a margin, we have given the duration of infection, and 
the period at which return to school may be allowed, in separ- 
ate columns in the following table. In the fourth column is 
given the period which must elapse before a child, who has 
been exposed to infection, may, in the absence of symptoms, 
be allowed to return to school, assuming that in the interval 
he has been completely isc la ed from any source of infection. 
This, again, should theoretically coincide with the longest cor- 
responding period of incubation given in the last table (page 
1 1 8;, but it is well to allow a margin for the symptoms, if com- 
ing on, to become fully developed. 

It must be clearly borne in mind that the date of cessation 
of the patients infection is stated in the following table. It is 
assumed that all wearing-apparel has been disinfected, and 
likewise the room occupied by the child. Sometimes a child 
is taken ill in a particular dress, and resumes this on returning 
to school, thus carrying the infection with him. 

A scholar who has been suffering from infectious disease 
should never be re-admitted to school without a medical certi- 
ficate of freedom from infection. If this certificate assumes 
freedom from infection at an earlier period than the one 



122 



SCHOOL HYGIENE. 



Disease. 


Duration of 
Infection. 


Date at which 
School attendance 
may be resumed. 


Duration of 
Quarantine 
of children 
exposed to 
Infection. 


Scarlet Fever 


From 5 to 8 weeks ; 


Not less than 6 


I 
14 days. ! 




ceases when all 


weeks from the 






peeling of the 
skin has been 


beginning of the 
rash and then 






completed. 


only if no peeling 








or sore-throat is 








present. 




Diphtheria ... 


From 14 to 21 


Not less than 3 


12 days. 




days. 


weeks,& not then 








if strength not re- 








covered, or if any 








sore throat or any 








discharge from 








nose, eyes, ears, 








&c. 




Small pox and 
Chicken pox 


About 4 to 5 
weeks. 


When every scab 
has fallen off. 


1 8 days. 


Measles 


From. 2 to. L 


When all des- 


16 days. 




weeks, when ali 
cough and branny 


quamationis com- 
pleted, not less 






shedding of skin 
has ceased. 


than 3 weeks from 
beginning of rash 




Rotheln 


10 to \\ days. 


From 2 to 3 weeks 


16 days. 






varying with the 








attack. 




Mumps 


14 to. 21 days 


Four weeks from 


24 days. 




from the beginning the beginning, if 








all swelling has 








disappeareed. 




Whooping .. 


6 weeks from the 


In about 8 weeks. 


21 days. 


Cough 


b eginning of 








whooping.orwhen 








the cough has 








quite ceased. 






Typhus & Ty 


4 to 5 weeks- .,. 


When strength 


28 days. 


phoid Fevers 




sufficient. 





COMMUNICABLE DISEASES IN SCHOOLS. 123 

named in the preceding table, the question should be referred 
to another doctor, preferably one to be attached as an official 
adviser to the school. It sometimes happens, tor instance, 
that children are sent back to school with a medical certificate 
of freedom from infection at the end of fourteen days from 
the beginning of mumps, which is at least a week too early. 

The admission to school of apparently healthy children from 
infected households should always be forbidden, because of the 
possibility of their carrying the infection in their clothes, or of 
their coming to school while having the disease in a latent 
form or an unrecognised stage. As soon as the teacher knows 
of the existence of a case of infectious disease, he should at once 
exclude from school every child living in the same house. The 
Sanitary Authorities as a rule communicate with the teacher, 
instructing him not to admit to school any children from an in- 
fected house. Except in towns where the compulsory notifica- 
tion of infectious diseases is enforced, the proportion of cases 
known to Sanitary Officials is, however, very small, and the 
teacher is consequently warned from this source only in a minor- 
ity of cases. The London School Board has issued instructions 
to its teachers, that they shall inform the Local Sanitary Author- 
ity of all cases coming to their knowledge. This regulation 
seems to be seldom obeyed. The enforcement of the com- 
pulsory notification of infectious diseases by parents, would 
enable teachers and health-officers to work more efficiently to- 
gether, to their mutual advantage. 

All the children in an infected house should be kept away from 
school while the infectious disease continues, and for a given 
period of quarantine afterwards which is stated in the last table. 
The quarantine-period must be assumed to start from the end of 
the longest possible period of infection of the last person who 
has been ill in the house. Thus, referring to the table, it will 
be seen that, after scarlet fever, an exposed child must not re- 



j24 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

turn to school for % plus 2 weeks ; after diphtheria, 21 plus 12 
days ; after mumps, 2 1 plus 24 days, &c. 

This may seem an unnecessarily long period, but the only 
way to avoid possible infection, is to adhere rigidly to it where 
children have remained in the same houses their sick brothers. 
Of course, if the healthy children have been removed to 
another house, and no possible communication is allowed, 
then only the period of quarantine given in the last column 
of the table on page 122 need be insisted on. 

In some cases, disease has been acquired from some local 
unsanitary condition of the school-premises. Bad drains or 
closets may give rise to typhoid fever or diphtheria, as may 
likewise a tainted water-supply. In the former case, the school 
should be closed during the necessary repairs ; in the latter, 
the water-supply should be cut off. Bad ventilation may serve 
to intensify an imported infection, and increase its virulence; 
and so may, likewise, a dirty condition of the walls and floors of 
the school. 

When any child attending school has been discovered to be 
suffering from an infections disease, he should be sent home, 
the other children sent into the playground, and then the 
windows widely opened and the floor freely sprinkled with 
some disinfecting solution, as carbolic acid, i to 60 of water. 

The necessity oj closing schools for infectious disease but rarely 
arises. Where prompt information is received by the local 
sanitary authority of the occurrence of infectious cases, it 
is rarely, if ever, necessary to close a school, as the children of 
infected households can be kept away. 

In certain exceptional cases it may be advisable to close a 
school. Thus: (i) If the attendance at the school is greatly 
reduced by a severe epidemic (of measles, for instance), 
preventing the continuance of a regular course of study. 
(2) In sparsely-populated rural districts, where children rarely 






COMMUNICABLE DISEASES IN SCHOOLS. 125 

meet except at school, closing the school may effectually check 
the spread of an epidemic, though it is of little use in towns or 
large villages, where children play together out of school- 
hours. (3) School should be closed for a few days or weeks 
to remedy local sanitary defects. If a drain is opened during 
school-hours, children crowd about to see what is done, and 
may thus receive the germs of diphtheria or typhoid fever. 

To prevent the origin and spread of infectious diseases 
in large public and boarding schools, some further precau- 
tions are required. The sanitary conditions of the school 
should be perfect, the water and milk supplies above sus- 
picion, and the school should, if possible, have its own 
laundry. 

The school infirmary or sanatorium should preferably be 
entirely separate from the rest of the school, and should have 
rooms for distinct cases of fever, and other rooms in which 
doubtful cases may be watched until their true character 




FIG. 25. The itch insect. (After Startin.) 



126 



SCHOOL HYGIENE. 



becomes evident. The importance of not leaving any case of 
illness accompanied by a rise of temperature in the common 
dormitories cannot be exaggerated. It is generally by means 
of doubtful or ill-marked cases of fever that infection is 
spread; and in some cases it is necessary to wait and see 
whether peeling occurs before a correct diagnosis can be 
made. 








FIG. 26. A burrow formed by the itch -insect in the epidermis, showing the 
mature animal and nine eggs in course of development. Highly magnified 
(After Startin. ) 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASES IN SCHOOLS. 12? 

The sanatorium should have nurses' rooms, a small 
kitchen, bath, and water-closets complete in itself, and isolated 
from the rest of the school. When a separate building is 
impossible, the top floor of the house should be occupied, and 
in this case even more stringent regulations are required. One 
medical attendant should attend all the cases of sickness in a 
school. Where the medical responsibility is divided, infection 
is much more apt to spread. 

Certificates should be demanded from the guardians or 
parents of children on their return after vacations, stating that 
there has been no known exposure to infection for at least 
three weeks. Where no such statement can be obtained, the 
pupil should be placed in quarantine ; he should have a warm 
bath, strong carbolic soap being used, and his clothes and 
books should be baked. In large schools it may be advisable 
to have a disinfecting oven, Washington Lyon's, in which super- 
heated steam is employed, being the best for this purpose. 

Other Communicable Diseases. Scabies or Itch shows itself 
in the form of an irritable rash, most frequently seen between 
the roots of the fingers and in the bends of joints, especially 
at the wrist. It is due to the rapid multiplication of a minute 
insect not unlike a cheese-mite (Fig. 25), the female of which 
forms oblique burrows in the epidermis, laying eggs which hatch 
in about 14 days (Fig. 26). The rash simulates eczema, and is 
liable to spread all over the body if its true nature is not detected. 
It is very contagious, and no child who has had it should be 
allowed to return to school without a medical certificate, and 
until his clothes have been baked or washed in boiling water. 

Ringworm is due to the growth on the skin of a microscopic 
fungus (Fig. 27). Minute spores become detached from the 
growth, and thus infection is carried elsewhere to the same per- 
son or to others by means of change of hats or bonnets, or by 
towels or brushes, or actual contact. Hairdressers occasionally 



128 



SCHOOL HYGIENE. 



communicate ringworm, and so do hatters by trying on numerous 
caps. It is as morally wrong to send a child with ringworm to 
a hairdresser or hatter as if he were suffering from scarlet fever. 
The frequency of ringworm is shown by the experience of 
Christ's Hospital, London, in which children from all parts 
cf the country, and all grades of middle-class society are 
A B 




XI50 XI200 

FIG. 27. Ringworm. 

A, a hair, showing filtration with the growth, magnified 150 times. 

B, a portion of the fungus magnified 1,200 times. (Bristowe's Medicine.) 

admitted. In the ten years, 1875-84, 1812 children, aged from 
8 to 10 years, all supposed to be free from ringworm, were ex- 
amined for the first time, and 145 cases were detected, or about 
8 per cent, of all children admitted. 

On the bare skin, ring-like patches with raised margins are 
formed, the ring gradually widening out if not interfered with. 
On the scalp similar patches are formed, but the fungus 
extends down to the roots of the hairs, and obstinately remains 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASES IN SCHOOLS. 129 

there, even when the superficial parts, have been apparently 
cured. It frequently happens that such children are allowed 
to return to school, the disease breaking out again, and causing 
infection of other children. It is quite a mistake to suppose 
that ringworm is necessarily cured when the hair begins to 
grow on the diseased places. A case can be regarded as cured 
only when a medical man, after having carefully examined 
the whole scalp in a good light and scrutinised every suspicious 
spot with a lens, has found no broken-off stumpy hairs (often 
not protruding more than iV to i inch). 

It is unfortunately a fact that many children recovering from 
ringworm are certified by indiscreet medical men to be free 
from infection, when a more careful examination discovers 
numerous hairs in which the fungus is still alive. One 
commonly hears the remark that ; ' the ringworm is better, but 
has left a scurfy condition of the head behind." The jteacher 
may take it as a practical rule in such cases which will very 
seldom be found to err, that the scurfy condition indicates a 
phase of ringworm which is still infectious. The power of 
infection may continue even when one or two years of this 
scurfy condition have elapsed. 

Catarrhal Ophthalmia is marked by redness of the eyes and 
free muco-purulent discharge. It lasts about 14 days, and is 
chiefly important because it is contagious. 

Chronic Granular Ophthalmia is also contagious, and all 
cases should be isolated, and the use of the same towels, or 
water, forbidden. Badly-ventilated dormitories, insufficient 
food, and general unhygienic conditions with the promiscuous use 
of towels,, are chiefly instrumental in producing it. Those of an 
Irish nationality seem to be particularly prone to suffer from it. 

Scald Head (Contagious Impetigo) is common in underfed 
children. It may spread to other children, under similar 
conditions; and such children should therefore be excluded 
from school. 



130 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

In concluding this long but important chapter, brief allusion 
should be made to Chorea, and Hysteria, which are com- 
municable by imitation and sympathy, and for this reason 
should be excluded from school. Every teacher should be 
able to recognise the jerky twitchings, the shuffling of feet, the 
contortions of face and twitching of eyelids, which characterise 
Chorea (St. Vitus's Dance; and children suffering from this, 
require prolonged rest from school-work. 

Hysteria is chiefly of importance in girls' schools. It as- 
sumes various forms, and may occasionally simulate either a 
simple faint or an epileptic fit. It is distinguished from the 
former by the absence of the extreme pallor of face and lips, 
which characterises fainting; and from the latter by the fict 
that the hysterical patient is usually not completely uncon- 
scious, as shown by the attempts to attract sympathy and atten- 
tion, and by the flinching which occurs when the white of the 
eye is touched with the point of a finger. The patient should 
be treated firmly, though kindly, and not allowed to attract too 
much attention. 



CHAPTER XIX. 

SCHOOL ACCIDENTS. 

Importance of " First Aid. "Fainting. Fits. Suffocation. 
Drowning. Foreign Bodies. Stings and Bites. Wounds. 
Hemorrhage. Burns. Fractures, Dislocations, Sprains, and 
Contusions. Football. 

THE extreme utility of " First Aid " to the injured, is shown 
by the popularity which the St. John Ambulance lectures have 
attained. To teachers, the knowledge of " First Aid " is par- 
ticularly useful, for, in addition to the numerous accidents 
that occur in connection with school games, instances of 
children having fits or faints, or haemorrhage, are by no means 
uncommon. Panic, which is the result of ignorance, and, still 
more important, injury to health and limb, might frequently 
be prevented by the application of the simple rules of treat- 
ment which will be laid down in this chapter. 

It must not be supposed that we are encouraging teachers 
to take upon themselves the sole treatment of serious cases, 
although we may have to describe the treatment of such cases 
in detail. But valuable time is frequently lost before a medi- 
cal man arrives, and it is therefore highly important that the 
teacher should know what to do in the interval. Hence a not 
unsuitable heading for this chapter would be " Until the doc- 
tor comes." 

Fainting in schools which are ill-ventilated and over-heated, 

I 3 I K 2 



13* SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

is not infrequent. The patient should be laid on his back, 
with his head low ; all tight clothing should be removed from 
his neck ; crowding round him should be avoided, and, if pos- 
sible, he should be placed in a free current of air, near an 
open door. Do not attempt to pour anything down the throat 
while the patient remains unconscious, otherwise choking may 
result. 

Fits may occur in school. In boys' schools, epileptic fits 
occur ; in girls' schools, hysterical fits may likewise occur. 

In epilepsy, during the convulsions, the patient should be 
laid gently on the floor, and prevented from biting his tongue, 
if possible. All tight clothing should be removed, and no 
further attempt at active treatment made. 

In hysteria, as a rule, the patient is not quite unconscious ; 
she sobs considerably, and is evidently in a highly emotional 
condition. She will not allow the ball of her eye to be touched 
with the finger without flinching, unlike an epileptic patient. 
Hysterical patients should be removed from the school as soon 
as possible, as a bad example of this kind is likely to spread. 
Their morbid condition should not be fed by over-attention or 
indulgence. 

Suffocation is occasionally imminent from a marble or cherry 
stone, or similar substance, being held in the mouth, and then 
suddenly sucked down into the larynx. Such an accident is 
always serious, and a doctor should be immediately called, 
the messenger being instructed to tell him the nature of the 
accident in order that no time may be lost. In the meantime, 
the only safe measure is to put the finger to the back of the 
throat, in the hope that the foreign body may be reached. 
Even if it is not reached, vomiting is commonly excited, and 
this may dislodge it. The child should not be inverted until 
the doctor arrives, as, if it is not successful, the symptoms may 
be aggravated. 



SCHOOL ACCIDENTS. 



'33 



Apparent Drowning is a not infrequent accident, especially 
in country districts during half-holidays, and the teacher should 
instruct his scholars as to the plan to be followed in such an 
emergency. 




FIG. 28 The inspiratory movement in artificial respiration. 

The apparently-drowned boy should be placed on the bank, 
his mouth cleansed from mud, &c., and his tongue drawn for- 
ward out of the mouth.* A folded coat should be placed under 
his head and shoulders, so as to give firm support. Next, the 
boy's arms should be grasped near the elbows by the operator, 
who stands over the boy, facing towards his feet. The arms 
should be drawn over the boy's head, and then pressed down 
firmly against the sides of his chest. (Figs. 28 and 29.) This 
manipulation should be repeated regularly about fifteen times a 
minute, taking care not to perform the movements hurriedly. 
The upward movement expands the chest, while the pressure of 
the arms on the chest causes expulsion of air from it. In this 
* See Note I., page 140. 



134 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

way inspiration and expiration are imitated, and the natural 
process of respiration may in favourable cases be restored. 
At the same time, other persons should secure warm and dry 




FIG. 29. The expiratory movement in artificial respiration. 

blankets and hot bottles, and should rub the legs steadily, so 
as to help the circulation and keep up the temperature of the 
body. The artificial respiration is, however, the most impor- 
tant point, and should not be intermitted until natural attempts 
at breathing occur, or until half-an-hour has elapsed without 
sign of recovery. 

Foreign Bodies are occasionally pushed by mischievous 
children into the ear or nostril. In the latter case they can 
usually be seen and seized by a pair of tweezers, or hooked 
down by a fine wire hoop.* In the former case simple syring- 
ing with warm water will frequently wash out the foreign matter. 
If it is a pea, however, syringing is better omitted, as the pea 
may swell and thus become more firmly impacted. 

Minute particles of dust, &c., frequently set up great irrita- 
* See Note II., page 140. 



SCHOOL ACCIDENTS. 135 

ti< n in the eye. Try to invert the upper eyelid, and then 
tl e speck can usually be seen, and removed with the corner of 
pocket-handkerchief. If it cannot be seen, drop a little 
f astor-oil into the eye, keep the eye closed and immobile by 
i leans of a wet compress over it, and, If relief is not obtained 
i a few hours, seek further advice. 

If a needle becomes imbedded under the skin, the affected 
part should be kept fixed, and a surgeon seen. Thorns and 
splinters may usually be removed by cutting through the top 
skin (epidermis) with a sharp and clean knife, and then seizing 
the fragment with a pair of tweezers. If the splinter is under 
the finger-nail, its removal is much more difficult, and the 
teacher will seldom have skill or courage to cut down the nail 
as is sometimes necessary. 

The Stings of bees and wasps are best relieved by first 
bathing with hot water and squeezing out the poison, and 
then applying a strong solution of common cooking soda to the 
affected parts. The same treatment holds good for nettle-stings. 

The Bite of a dog is not in itself serious, unless the dog 
is mad.* As, however, the fact cannot at once be ascer- 
tained, it is wise to adopt the necessary precautions in every 
case. The wound should be bathed with hot water and 
thoroughly sponged. It is also desirable to increase bleeding 
from the wound by enlarging it with a sharp pocket-knife. 
Lunar caustic is of little service, but as most schools have some 
strong nitric acid on the premises, this should be carefully 
applied to the wound by means of a penholder dipped in the 
acid, any excess of the acid having been first removed from 
the penholder. 

Wounds of varying degree and severity are very apt to 
occur in connection with school-life. The wounded part 
should be laid bare, and the wound thoroughly washed with 
cold wattr, in order to remove any grit or other foreign 

* To make sure of this point, it is wiser not to shoot the dog 
until the doubt is fully solved. 



136 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

matter that may have entered it. Then the edges should be 
brought as near together as possible, and a pad of linen 
moistened with cold water should be applied by means of a 
bandage. The patient should be placed in such a position 
that the edges of the wound will not be strained ; thus, if the 
wound is on the cheek, speaking and chewing should be 
avoided ; if on the leg, walking must not be allowed. Punc- 
tured wounds, from knives, &c., may be more serious and in 
all doubtful cases a medical man should be seen. 

Abrasions, in which the skin is rubbed off, are best treated 
by washing carefully with cold water, and then applying some 
Friar's balsam or collodion. For wounds and abrasions, stick- 
ing-plaster should never be applied alone. It nearly always 
sets up irritation and causes the wound to suppurate. 

Swollen glands are apt to occur after a wound or whitlow, or 
other injury. Thus, a swelling under the armpit may occur from 
a poisoned finger. Such a condition requires careful attention, 
rather to the cause of the enlarged glands, than to the glands 
themselves. Enlarged glands in the neck are not infrequently 
due to lice in the head or a discharge from the ears, or sore 
eyes, or a rash on the head or face. Given that these conditions 
are removed, the enlarged glands disappear, unless some dis- 
order of the general health co-exists. 

Hemorrhage is due to the rupture of a blood-vessel. This 
may be due to a wound, or may come from the lungs, nose, 
or other parts, independently of external injury. 

Arterial bleeding is the most serious, and is distinguished 
from venous or capillary bleeding, by its greater amount, by the 
bright scarlet colour of the blood, and by the fact that it comes 
out in intermittent jets, corresponding to the beats of the heart. 

Venous or capillary bleeding can always be controlled by 
placing a linen pad on the wound, and firmly bandaging it in 
its place. 



SCHOOL ACCIDENTS. 137 

To control arterial bleeding, the same measure is usually 
successful, only the pad must be made firm and hard, and 
tightly bound in its place. If a main artery is divided, as 
shown by the great spurting of blood, a firm pad may be held 
firmly pressed by the two thumbs over the wound until 
further aid can be obtained. If the teacher knows the course 
of the main blood-vessels in the limb, he may stop the 
haemorrhage by pressing his thumb over the main artery 
higher up the limb ; but as a rule, he will probably be more 
successful by trusting to a firm pad kept forcibly pressed over 
the wound itself. 

An elevated position of the limb will help to stop bleeding 
from it, and a flexed position of the joint next above the 
wounded part has a similar effect. Thus, with a severe wound 
in the palm of the hand, apply a pad firmly over the wound, 
bend the elbow, and keep the whole arm raised. If cough- 
ing or vomiting of blood occurs, keep the patient perfectly 
quiet, and give nothing except ice to suck, and obtain medical 
aid at once. In bleeding from the nose, apply iced com- 
presses to the nape of the neck, and syringe the nose out with 
iced water. If this does not answer, put some alum or tannin 
in the water to be injected into the nostril, or pack the nostril 
with a large wad of cotton soaked in alum-water. If the bleed- 
ing still continues, a powder containing 30 grains of bromide of 
potassium may be given in water, and repeated in half an hour 
if necessary. This seldom fails to stop the haemorrhage. 

Burns are apt to occur in connection with open fires or hot 
water pipes. The best immediate application is probably a 
linen cloth soaked in a saturated solution of common cooking 
soda, which very quickly relieves the pain and burning. 

The following injuries are most apt to occur in connection 
with football, though occasionally from cricket or in the 
gymnasium : 



138 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

Fractures are recognised by inability to use the affected 
limb, shortening and alteration in its shape, and a grating 
sound when an attempt is made to move it. There is no 
urgency about treating a broken limb before the arrival of a 
surgeon. If it is necessary, however, to remove him indoois, 
the limb should first be secured in splints, and he should be 
carried on an improvised stretcher. Splints may be improvised 
by taking long pieces of a box-lid, or an umbrella ; or for 
children, brown paper folded up so as to be stiff and rigid. 

Dislocations are liable to be confused with fractures, but the 
limb is more fixed than in fracture, and there is no grating 
sound or movement. The fact that the injury is obviously 
near a joint helps to a diagnosis, though sometimes fractures may 
occur close to a joint. Any attempt at replacing the dislocated 
bone by an unskilled person is dangerous. 

Sprains are best treated by bandaging immediately, and 
applying spirit and water, or some quite warm, soothing 
lotion. The part should be kept immobile, and the after- 
treatment requires great care. 

Contusions, as from a kick on the shin or a blow in the eye, 
result in the effusion of blood under the skin (as in the 
"black eye")- Tne effusion may be minimised, and its 
absorption helped by a cold evaporating lotion. 

More serious accidents occasionally happen in cricket and 
football. In cricket, a fatal result has occasionally followed a 
blow behind the ear by the cricket-ball. It is difficult to 
suggest precautions that would prevent the possibility of this 
accident. 

in football, a blow or kick over the abdomen or chest may 
cause sudden death, or, short of this, complete collapse, which 
in some cases requires several weeks before complete recovery 
occurs. 

In lawn-tennis, the right elbow is sometimes peculiarly 



SCHOOL ACCIDENTS. 139 

injured. This is now well recognised under the name of the 
"tennis-arm." It is due to injury of certain ligaments, or a 
small muscle near the elbow-joint. The only remedy is 
abstinence from the game for a prolonged period. 

Football has the unenviable reputation of being the pastime 
which is, far above all others, liable to be accompanied by 
serious or even fatal accidents. Scarcely a week passes in the 
football season, but several accidents are recorded in the news- 
papers j and the following are but a few of many culled by the 
Lancet in the course of a few weeks : "A had his right 
leg broken by a cross kick." ", while engaged in a match, 
was kicked in the stomach ; but, feeling better afterwards, he 
finished the game. He died, some time afterwards, from in- 
ternal injuries." "C had his collar-bone broken." "D's left 
leg was broken clean through." " received a severe kick on 
his left leg, by which two bones were broken just above the 
ankle." " F> while running with the ball, slipped forward and 
was fallen over by those pursuing him, his back being broken 
in the melee." Two cases have come under my own observa- 
tion within the last month. In one, a knock on the chest by 
an opponent's knee caused complete collapse and uncon- 
sciousness, and the patient at the end of three weeks remains 
weak and shaken. In the other, the nose was cut across in a 
fall, and severe haemorrhage occurred. 

The Committee on Athletics at Harvard University, U.S. A., 
about a year ago, being convinced that the game of football, as 
at present played by college teams, is brutal and demoralising 
to players and spectators, and extremely dangerous, proposed 
to request the faculty to prohibit the game. We confess that 
this is, in our opinion, the only reasonable conclusion. Unless 
the game can be radically altered for fatal accidents happen 
with both Rugby and Association play the sooner another 
game takes its place the better. tf Charging " should be for- 



140 SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

bidden; handling the ball and running with it should be for- 
bidden ; a hard and dangerous condition of the ground from 
frost should always be a sufficient reason for postponing the 
game ; and the game should be confined entirely to the 
young, who seem to escape more readily than those of mature 
years. If, by some means, football could become true to its 
name, and not be foot-and-hand-ball, and if kicks could be 
made to fall more on the ball, and less on the shins and bodies 
of the players, its retention as a rational game might be 
tolerable. 

The following notes are to accompany pages 133 and 134, which 
see : 

NOTE I. To free the lungs of water, protect the face while the 
body is gently turned face downwards ; let some one stand astride 
the body, and joining his hands under the abdomen lift that part 
up high, making a few sharp jerks, the head hanging low, and the 
tongue drawn out. In a few moments, as soon as the water ceases 
to escape, turn the body over, and place a folded coat under the 
head and shoulders, so as to give firm support. 

NOTE II. Instant relief is often afforded by closing with firm 
pressure the free nostril, placing the mouth over the open mouth of 
the patient, and blowing forcibly. 



INDEX. 



Abrasions . . . .136 
Age in relation to school- 
work 71 

Ague 4 

Air, amount required . . 27 
Air space in dormitories . 93 
Alternation of subjects . 66 
Arrangement of school- 
work 66 

Artificial lighting . . 17 
Astigmatism . . .no 
Automatic flush -tanks 47, 53 
Atrophy from disuse of 

organs .... 85 

Back to seat . . 15 

Bathing . . . 102 

Bites . . . 135 

Blackboard . 16 

Bleeding . . . 136 

Blood supply to brain . 59 

Books and eyesight . . 113 

Boots 101 

Boyle's mica-flap venti- 
lator 

Brain, structure and size . 

Brain-forcing 

Bridgeport system of 

warming .... 44 

Burns 137 

Calisthenics . . , 89 

Central system of heating 41 

Cesspools .... 52 
Chicken-pox . _ . .119 

Childhood, growth in . 70 

Chorea from school- work . 64 

Cleanliness .... 102 

Cloak-rooms . . . 10 



PAGE 

Closed stoves . . 40 
Closets .... 48 
Closing schools for in- 
fectious disease . . 124 
Clothing .... 99 
Consumption from damp 

soil 4 

Consumption from over- 
crowding .... 25 
Consumption from over- 
work. .... 68 
Contusions . . . .138 
Corporal punishment . 68 
Corridors . . . . 10 
Corsets . . . . 101 
"Cram" system . . 65 
Cubic space allowed . . 27 

Damp clothing . . . 100 

Damp-proof course . . 7 

Desks , .... 12 
Diet . . . . -94 
Differentiation of functions 

of brain .... 59 

Diphtheria . 118 

Direction of light . . 18 

Disconnecting chamber . 51 
Dislocations. . . .138 
Distance and difference of 

desks .... 14 

Dormitories 93 

Drainage arrangements . 46 

Drain-pipe . . . 51 

Drainage of soil ... 4 

Dress, in relation to food . 99 
Drowning . . .133 

Drynessofair . 26 

Earth-closets , . 5 2 



142 



Index. 



PAGB 

Early education, character 
of , . . 61, 71 

Effects of breathing im- 
pure air .... 24 

Emulation, evils of, for 

girls 80 

Epilepsy . . . .132 

Examinations . 67 

Exercise .... 83 

effects on brain, . 85 

Extraction shafts for foul 

air 44 

Eyeball, structure of, . . 104 

Far-sightedness . . . 107 
Fat, importance of, as food 96 
Fits . . . . 130, 132 
Floor and floor plan . . 9 
Floor space per child. . 27 
Food and work ... 96 
Football .... 139 
Foreign bodies . . 134 
Foundation .... 7 
Fractures . . . .138 
Furniture of school . . 12 

Gas lights . * ' . 19 

Gas stoves . . . . 39 
German measles. . .119 
Glandular Dwellings . . 136 
Ground-water ... 3 
Growth and development . 73 
Growth, rate of . . 74, 78 
Gymnastics. ... 89 

Haemorrhage . . .136 
" Hardening " of children . 99 
Headache, causes of. . 63 
Height of children . 75,70 
Home lessons . . .66 
Hot air furnaces ... 41 
Hot water apparatus . . 42 
Hypermetropia . . .107 
Hysteria . . . .132 

Incubation period . .117 
Infectious diseases . -115 
Infection, duration of .120 
Itch 127 



Kindergarten system . . 

Lawn-tennis arm . . 
Lavatories . 

Liebreich on seat-backs . 

Liebreich's chair. . . 

Lighting of schools . . 
Long sight . 

Measles . . . 

Mental exercise . . 
Merit grant. . 
Mumps . 

Muscles. in relation to brain 
Music exercises . 
Muscular exercise 



brain 
Myopia 



effect on 



PAGE 

61 

138 
46 



107 

H9 

57 
72 

120 

6o 

79 

82 

84 
108 

30 



Natural ventilation . . 
Needlework in relation to 
eyesight . . . .114 

Open fire-place ... 37 

Ophthalmia. . . . 129 

Over- exertion, effects of . 85 

Over-growth, dangers of . 74 

Over- pressure ... 65 

Pan closet . ... 48 
Phthisis, see Consumption* 

Physiology of respiration . 21 

Pictures 16 
Playgrounds . . . 6, 10 

Posture, influence on health 12 

Precocity .... 62 

Puberty and school-work . 80 

Punishments ... 68 

Quarantine period . . 122 

Recreation .... 82 
Recreative exercise . . 87 
Rest ..... 91 
Ringworm . . . . . 127 
Rotheln . . . .119 
Rules respectingventilation 30 



Sanatorium . 4 
Scabies . . 
Scald head . 
Scarlet fever 
School-work after acute ill 

ness .... 
School-work, duration of 
Seats .... 
Sensations in relation t< 

brain. 

Sex in education. 
Sheringham's valve venti 

lator .... 
Short sight . . : 
Site of school . . 
Sleep .... 
Slope of desk 
Smallpox . . . 
Soil, characters of 
Soil-pipe . . 
Sprains 
Staircases . 

Steam/heating apparatus 
Stings .... 
St. Vitus's dance 
Subsoil water 
Suffocation . 
Surroundings of school 
Swimming . 
Symptoms of onset of ii 

fectious disease 



ma 


ex. 143 


PAGE 


PAGE 


12$ 


Temperature of air re- 


127 


quired .... 25 


128 

118 


Tests for air impurities . . 23 
Tobin's tubes 33 




Training, effect on muscles, 


64 


&c 83 


72 
13 


Tumbler and trough closets 49 
Type of books . . -113 


60 




78,80 


Urinals .... 47 





Valveless closet ... 49 


3 


Ventilating closed stoves . 40 


92 
14 


,, gas burners 16,34 
Ventilation .... 21 


119 


Walls, internal surface . 8 


5 


structure of . . 7 


5 




138 




10 


Warming, expense of . 37 


42 


Water supply ... 97 


135 


Weighing students periodi- 


130 


cally 75 


"2 


Weight of children -75,78 


132 


Whooi ing cough 120 


5 


Window-area . . 18 


103 


Wounds . . -135 


- 


Writing lessons . 113 


. 117 


Writing materials . 114 



SCIENCE. 

Shalers First Book in Geology. 

For high school, or highest class in grammar school . . . . , , i.oo 

Shalers Teacher s Methods in Geology. 

74 pages. An aid to the teacher using the above book .25 

Shepard's Inorganic Chemistry. 

Descriptive and Qualitative; experimental and inductive; leads the student to 
observe and think. For high schools and colleges I.M 

Shepard's Laboratory Note- Book. 

Blanks for experiments ; tables for the reaction of metallic salts, and pages for 
miscellaneous matter. Can be used with any chemistry ...... .35 

Chutes Practical Physics. 

For high and preparatory schools studying physics experimentally. In Press. 

Remsens Organic Chemistry. 

An Introduction to the study of the Compounds of Carbon. For all students of 
pure science, or of its application to the arts, medicine, etc 1.20 

Coil's Chemical Arithmetic. 



With a short system of Elementary Qualitative Analysis. For high schools and colleges, .50 

Grabfield and Burns Chemical Problems. 

For colleges, high and technical schools .50 

Coltons Practical Zoology. 

Gives a clear idea of the subject as a whole, by the careful study of a few typical animals, .80 

William's Modern Petography. 

An account of the application of the microscope to the study of geology . . ,15 

Clarke s Astronomical Lantern. 

Intended to familiarize students with the constellations by comparing them with 
fac-similes on the lantern face. With seventeen slides 4.50 

Clarke s How to Find the Stars. 

Accompanies the above and helps to an acquaintance with the constellations . .15 

Guides for Science- Teaching. 

For instructing classes in Natural History in the lower grades. 

No. i. Hyatt's About Pebbles, .10. No. 2. Goodale's A Few Common Plants, .15. 
No. 3. Hyatt's Commercial and other Sponges, .20. No. 4. Agassiz's First Lessons in 
Natural History, .20. No. 5. Hyatt's Corals and Echinoderms, .25. No. 6. Hyatt's 
Mollusca, .25. No. 7. Hyatt's V/orms and Crustacea, .25. No. 12. Crosby's Common 
Minerals and Rocks, 40; cloth, .60. No. 13. Richards' First Lessons in Minerals, .10. 
No. 14. Bowditch's Physiology, .20. . N.is. Clapp's Observation Lessons, .30 



D. C. HEATH & CO., Boston, Hew York and Chicago. 



BOOKS FOR TEACHERS. 



Rousseau s Emile $ .80 

Pestalozzis Leonard and Gertrude . . . .80 
Richters Levana: The Doctrine of Education, .25 
Payne s Compayres History of Pedagogy . . .60 
Hall's Method of Teaching History . . . .30 

Gill's Systems of Education .00 

Radestoc&s Habit in Education . . . . . .60 

Rosminis Method in Education 40 

Peabodys Lectures to Kindergartners . . . .00 
Mallesons Early Training of Children . . .60 
Guides for Science Teaching, \Q to 40 cts. each. 

How to Use Wood-Working Tools 50 

Gustafsons Study of the Drink Question . , i .60 
Palmer s Temperance Teachings of Science . .50 
Luces Nature and Effects of Alcohol . . , .10 
Teachers Manual to Sheldon s History . . .80 
Teachers 1 Edition of Shalers Geology . . . i.oo 
Badlams Suggestive Lessons in Language 

and Reading 1.50 

Williams s Modern Petrography 25 

Morris s Study of Latin in the Preparatory Course, .25 
SafforcTs Methods in Mathematical Teaching, .25 
Hall's How to Teach Reading and What to 

Read in School 25 

Genungs Study of Rhetoric in College Classes, .25 

IN PREPARATION. 

Paynes Compayres Lectures on Teaching. 

De Garmos Lindner s Man I of Empirical Psychology. 

MacAlisters Montaigne on Education. 

Coxs Immanuel Kant on Pedagogy. 

Woodward ^s Disciplinary Value of the Study of English. 



D, C, HEATH & CO,, Publishers, Boston, New York, and Chicago. 




University of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. "Ref. Index File" 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



