RECIPE BO 



^_ 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 



<r 



6!|;rii.-y ©opriB¥l»--- 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, 



RIVERSIDE 
RECIPE BOOK 



" We may live without poetry, music and art; 
We may live without conscience and live without heart; 
We may live without friends, we may live without books; 
But civilized man cannot live without cooks." 

-OWSN MEREDITH. 




1 



n 



NEW YORK 

1890. 






A\<.- 



v" 



^ 



Copyright, 1890. 



^ 






This Recipe Book has been compiled and edited in 
the interest of Christian Work in connection ivith the 
Rutgers Riverside Presbyterian Church. 

Special attention is directed to the advertisements 

appearing in this volume, and it is hoped that the 

advertisers will receive the hearty sujyport of all its 
readers. 



PRESS OF WM. R. JENKINS, 
851-853 SIXTH AVE 



"X 



CONTENTS. 



SOUPS. 



Soup Making 1 

General Stock 1 

Beef 2 

Stock for Clear feoup 3 

Mutton 3 

Green Corn 4 

Mock Turtle 4 

Black Bean 4 

Bean 5 



Tomato 5 

Pea 5 

Turkey 6 

Tomato 6 

Cream of Celery 6 

Okra , 7 

Clear Soup or Consomme 7 

Clam 7 

Green Pea 7 



FISH. 



Hints 9 

Boiled Codfish 9 

Codfish Balls.. ..10 

Picked Codfish 10 

Codfish Balls 10 

Warmed over Fish 11 



Fish Chowder 11 

Oysters a la Poulette 11 

Clam Fritters 12 

Lobster Patties 12 

Lobster a la Newburg 12 

Stewed Clams 13 



MEATS. 



Hash 15 

Chicken Croquettes. 15 

Mutton Stew 16 

A la Mode Beef 16 



Chopped Ham for Sandwiches 16 

Cream Chicken 16 

Corning Beef. 17 

Spanish Beef 17 



VEGETABLES. 



Preparing Vegetables 19 

Delmonico Potatoes 20 

Corn Fritters 20 

Egg Plant 20 

Vegetable Oysters 20 

Saratoga Potatoes . 21 



Baked Beets 21 

Fried Potatoes with Cream 

Sauce 21 

Green Corn Caked 21 

Cooked Celery 21 

Potato Puff 22 



ENTREES AND SALADS. 



Potato Salad 23 

Mayonnaise Dressing 23 

Ciieese Souffle 24 

Cliocolate Souffle 24 

Lobster Farcie • • 24 

Puree of Salmon 25 

Welsh Kare-bib 25 

Hominy Croquette's 25 



Chicken Souffle 26 

A Nice Way to Cooli Chicken. 26 

Broiled Sweetbreads 26 

Salad Dressing 27 

Chicken Salad 27 

To Koast Birds 27 

Bread Tarts 28 

Sidney Smith's Salad Dressing 28 



SAUCES. 



Noodles for Soup 29 

Bread Dice for Soup 29 

Poached Eggs for Consomme. 29 

Egg Balls for Soup 30 

Drawn Butter 30 



Celery Sauce 30 

Creamy Sauce 30 

Sauce Tartare 31 

Sauce for Plum or Fruit 
Pudding 31 



BREADS. 



To cut Warm Bread 33 

TipTop Kolls 33 

Corn Bread 33 

Tea Rolls 34 

Muffins 34 

Puffetts 34 

Biscuits 34 

Muffins 34 



Pop Overs 35 

Puffs for Breakfast 35 

Tea Cakes 35 

Waffles 35 

Corn Bread 35 

Corn Cake 36 

Graham Muffins 36 

Gems 36 



DESSERTS. 



Weights and Measures 37 

Velvet Cream 37 

Lemon Cream 38 

Cream Pie 38 

Huckleberry Pudding 38 

Cold Cream Pudding 39 

Ambrosia 39 

Coffee Jelly 39 

Caramel Custard 39 



Wine Jelly 40 

Indian Pudding 40 

Pie. Pastry 40 

Lemon and Eaisin Pie 40 

Fig Padding 41 

Lemon Pudding 41 

Orange Baskets. 41 

Raspberry Joy 42 



CAKE. 



General Directions 43 

Delicate CaKe 44 

Angel Cake 44 

Coffee Cake 44 

Helen Cake 45 

Crullers 45 

Orange Cake 45 

Molasses Cake 45 



Sponge Cake Mrs. H— 46 

Orange Cake Mrs. K — 46 

Pearl Cake 47 

Ginger Cake 47 

Jumbles 47 

Fig Cake 47 

Sponge Cake Mrs. L — 48 

Bread Cake 48 



CANDIES. 

Without Cooking. 

French Creams 49 i Cream Dates 50 

French Vanilla Creams 49 [ Wintergreen Creams 50 

English Walnut Creams 50. j Peppermint Creams 50 

Cream Cherries 50 i Maple Sugar Creams 51 



CANDIES. 

Cooked. 



Molasses Taffy 53 

Pea-nut Candy 53 

Chocolate Caramels , . . ; . 53 

Molasses Candy 54 

Everton Taffy 54 



Chocolate Creams 54 

Butter Scotch 55 

Pea-nut Candy 55 

Pop Corn Balls 55 



HINTS FOE THE SICK. 



Beef Tea. 58 

Chicken Broth 58 

Mutton Broth 58 

Oatmeal Gruel 58 

Lemonade 58 

Flaxseed Tea 59 

Cure for a Felon 59 

To Check a Cold 59 

Koumys Mrs. H— 59 



Koumys Miss H— 60 

For Catarrh 60 

Rheumatism or any Pain. ... 60 

Throat Gargle 60 

Tonic 60 

Cough lyiixture 61 

Hoarseness 61 

Excellent Tonic 61 

Chalk Mixture 61 



ODDS AND ENDS. 



For Cleaning Brass 63 

Baking Custard 63 

Tooth Powder 63 

To Freshen Black Lace 63 



Celery. 



64 



Remove Ink from Carpets .. . 64 

To Polish Furniture 64 

Poetical Appetizer 65 

Advertisements 67 



SOUPS. 

"A hasty plate of soup." 

Soup Making. 

It can be made from the merest scraps and trimmings 
of meat, from the heads, tails and feet of animals ; from 
the bones and skin of fish, from cereals and vegetables 
alone. Pot liquor in which meat has been boiled should 
always be saved and used for soup the next day, when by 
the removal of all fat, by careful skimming, and the addi- 
tion of a few vegetables or some dumplings, rice, or 
macaroni, it will make a palatable broth. Experiments 
made by French chemists prove that the delicacy and 
richness of soup may be increased by first soaking the 
meat in tepid water enough to cover it, and adding this 
to the second water in which the meat is put over the fire, 
just as it reaches the boiUng point. 

General Stock. 

Part I. AVhere there is a family of any size it is well to 
keep a clean pot or saucepan on the back of the stove to 
receive all clean scraps of meat, bones, and remains of 
poultry and game, which are found in every kitchen ; but 
vegetables should not be put into it, as they are apt to 
sour. The proper proportions for soups are one pound of 
meat and bone to one and one half quarts of cold water; the 
meat and bones to be well chopped and broken up, and 



2 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

put over the tire in cold water, being brought slowly to a 
boil, and carefully skimmed as often as scum rises, and 
being maintained at a steady boiling point from two to 
six hours, as time j^ermits ; one hour before stock is done, 
add to it one carrot, and one turnip jDared ; one onion, 
stuck with three cloves, and a bouquet of sweet herbs. 

Part TI. When the soup is to be boiled six hours, two 
quarts of cold water must be allowed to every pound of 
meat; this will be reduced to one quart in boiling ; two 
gills of soup are generally allowed for each person at 
table, when it is served as the first part of the dinner and 
meats are to follow it. Care should be taken that the 
stock-pot boils slowly and constantly, from one side, as 
rapid and irregular boiling clouds and darkens the stock 
as much as imperfect skimming. Stock should never be 
allowed to cool in the stock-pot, but should be strained 
into an earthen jar, and left standing to cool uncovered; 
and all the fat removed, and saved to clarify for drippings; 
the stock is then ready to heat and use for soup or gravy. 
When stock has been darkened and clouded by careless 
skimming and fast boiling, it can be clarified by adding to 
it one egg and the shell, mixed first with a gill of cold 
water, then with a gill of boiling soup, and stirring it 
briskly into the soup until it boils ; then remove it to the 
back of the fire, where it will not boil, and let it stand 
until the white and shell have collected the small particles 
clouding the soup ; then strain it once or twice, until it 
looks clear. 

Beef Soup. 

Take a shank of beef with plenty of meat upon it, and 
boil five or six hours the day before using. The next day 



SOUPS 



«kimoffthe grease, put the jelly in the soup kettle, and 
one hour before serving, add turnips, carrots omens, and 
cabbage chopped fine in quantity desired; a few tomatoes 
and a little celery improve it. Season with pePPer a"d 
salt. Drop in a few noodles. Three tablespoonsful of uce 
may be added with -the vegetables. 

•' Margei-y Daw m (he Kitchen. 

Stock for Clear Soup. 

Four pounds of the middle cut of a shin of beef remove 
the marrow from the bone; cut the meat into small pieces 
put the meat and bone into a soup pot, with five quarts of 
Ld water; put it on the hottest part of the fire, and allow 
it to boil up quickly, when it boils skim very carefully 
throw in half a tablespoonful of salt, which brings the 
-scum to the top again, remove this, and put in a small piece 
of turnip and carrot, half a root of celery, ha f a teaspoon 
of whole cloves, one onion (which must soak m boiling 
water ten minutes) and pepper ; draw it to one side, and 
let it slowlv simmer for five hours, strain through a seiv-e 
before putting away; when cold, remove the fat on top of it 
Take one quart of stock, put it in a saucepan and hea 
it break into a bowl two eggs, one tablespoonful of cold 
water a little salt and pepper ; when stock is hot, pour m 
the e-o-s and water ; and whisk it until it boils, put on the 
lid and allow it to simmer twenty minutes; pour it through 
a clean towel, and it is ready for use.^^^^^^.^ ^^^^ ^^^^^ 

Mutton Soup. 

Boil a leg of mutton three hours, and take the water for 
. the soup, season with pepper and salt. Add a small cup 



4 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

of barley or rice, as preferred, throw in a little chopped 
parsley, if liked, and boil about an hour. 

Margery Daw in the Kitchen . 

Green Corn Soup. 

Take one dozen ears of corn, scrape the cobs and boil 
them twenty minutes in one quart of water. Remove the 
cobs, put in the corn, b,nd boil fifteen minutes. Add two 
quarts of rich milk seasoned with salt, pepper and butter, 
and thicken with two tablespoonsful of flour. Boil ten 
minutes and turn into a tureen in which are the well- 
beaten yolks of three eggs. 

Margery Daw in the Kitchen. 

Mock Turtle Soup. 

One quart of black beans and five pounds of lean beef. 
Put into the soup kettle in the morning in cold water suf- 
ficient for the quantity of soup desired, and cook slowly 
all day. Strain through a seive. Add salt, pepper, and 
plenty of cloves, to taste. Let it stand all night. When 
desired to serve, cut two lemons into thin slices, put them 
into the tureen and pour over them the soup. 

Margery Daiv in the Kitchen. 

Black Bean Soup. 

One quart of black beans, one pound of lean beef, one 
half pound salt pork, three quarts of water. Soak the 
beans all night, and in the morning jDour off the water and 
put them in the soup kettle, with three quarts of cold 
water, in which are the meat and pork. Boil three or four 
hours, adding water as it boils awa3\ Slice some lemon 
into the tureen before serving, also some bread cut into 



SOUPS. 5 

small pieces, and fried in butter. Strain through a colander 
into the tureen. 

Margery Daw in the Kitchen. 

Bean Soup. 

Soak one quart of beans over night in cold water, in the 
morning pour off the water, and put them in a kettle with 
four quarts of water, boil until soft enough to pass through 
the colander. Season with pepper and salt, and a piece of 
butter the size of an e^^, or boil with the beans a piece of 
salt pork. Throw pieces of bread cut into small pieces and 
fried in butter irito the tureen, and strain the soup upon 
them; if the soup is too thick, add boiling water. 

Margery Daw in the Kitchen. 

Tomato Soup. 

One and one-half pounds of lean beef in one gallon of 
water boiled down to three pints, add one quart of tomatoes, 
one cup of sweet milk, two tablepoonfuls of flour rubbed 
into a piece of butter the size of an egg. Then boil one 
hour, but less will do. Season with pepper and salt, and 
strain through a colander. 

Margery Daw in the Kitchen. 

Pea Soup. 

One quart of split peas soaked overnight in two quarts of 
water. In the morning pour off the water and put the peas 
in the soup kettle with four quarts of water. Let them 
boil until cooked enough to pass through the colander; 
about two hours. As soon as it begins to boil, cut up one 
largeonion and fry brown in a spiderwithapiece of butter 
the size of a large egg, and put into the kettle with the 



6 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

soup. Strain, and season with salt and pepper before 
serving. As the watfer boils awa}^ add more. A couple of 
slices of salt pork or a little beef stock is a great improve- 
ment. 

Margery Law in the Kitchen. 

Turkey Soup. 

Place the frame of the cold turkey, with the remnants 
of dressing and gravy in a pot, and cover with cold water, 
simmer gently three hours, let it stand until the next day. 
Remove the fat, and skim off the bits and bones. Put the 
soup on to heat until it boils; then thicken with flour 
slightly wet with water, and season to taste. 

Margery Daiv in the Kitchen. 

Tomato Soup. 

One pound of meat, two quarts of water, boil away to 
three pints, then add a tea cup of milk, a lump of butter 
size of an egg rubbed in two tablespoons of sifted flour, 
and one quart of stewed tomatoes, salt, and boil an hour 
after everything is in. 

Cream of Celery Soup. 

Take the white part of two large heads of celery, either 
grate it or chop it very fine, boil in a quart of milk, with 
one cup of rice, allow the rice and celery to stew slowly, 
until they can be rubbed through a coarse sieve, adding 
more milk if it gets too thick, then add to it an equal quan- 
tity of strong veal or chicken stock, white pepper and salt 

to taste. 

Eclectic Cook Book. 



SOUPS. 7 

Okra Soup. 

To one quart of stock add two chopped onioDs, four 
tomatoes and eight okra sliced thin, a small carrot grated; 
pepper and salt to taste. To make a quart of soup allow 
three pints of stock ; vegetables require boiling an hour, 
sometimes even longer. 

Mrs. F. E. Lathrojx 

Clear Soup or Consomme. 

(Two quarts for eight persons). This is made by strain- 
ing two quarts of stock, which has been cooled and freed 
from fat through a piece of flannel or a napkin, until it is 
bright and clear; if this does not entirely clear it, use an 
eggy as directed for clarifying soup, then season it to taste 
with salt, using at first a teaspoonful, and a very little 
fine white pepper, say a quarter of a saltspoonful, and 
color it to a bright straw color with caramel, of which a 
scant teaspoonful will be about the proper quantity. 

Clam. Soup. 

Wash fifty clams, put them in a pot and cover them with 
water, let them boil, and as soon as the shells open take 
them out with a skimmer. 

Chop the clams, strain the water they were boiled in, 
and return to the kettle, add the chopi)ed clams, one quart 
of milk, pepper and salt (not much), one-fourth pound of 
butter, and thicken with rolled cracker. 

Green Pea Soup. 

One pint of stock, one can of peas, a piece of onion, size 
of a small nutmeg. Boil together half an hour, strain, and 



RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 



IDut in souj^-pot again, with one pint of milk. Let it come 
to a boil ; season with salt and pepper, and stir in one 
tablespoonful of butter. Add one teaspoonful of parsley, 
choj)pedfine. 

Mrs. Walton. 



FISH 



•' Now, good digestion waits on appetite, health on both, and a waiter 
on all three." 



Hints. 

Nearly all kiods of fish lose their flavor soon after they 
are taken from the water. 

Fish are fresh when the eyes are clear, the fins stiff, the 
gills red and hard to open. 

Before broiling fish, rub the gridiron with fat to keep it 
from sticking. Place the inside of the fish down on the 
gridiron, and nearly cook before turning ; butter the skin 
before turning towards the fire. 

Salt fish should be soaked in cold water over night before 
cooking. 

Boiled Codfish. 

Lay the fish in cold water, slightly salted, for half an 
hour before it is time to cook it, wipe dry and put in a fish 
kettle with water enough to cover it, in which has been 
dissolved a little salt. Let it boil quite briskly. A piece 
of cod weighing three pounds will be cooked in half an 
hour from the time the water begins to boil. If cooked 
in a cloth it will require twice as long to boil. 

Have ready a sauce prepared thus: To one gill of boiling 
water add as much milk, and when it is scalding hot stir 
in two tablespoonsful of butter, a little at a time, that it 



10 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

may melt without oiling, a tablespoonful of flour wet with 
cold water, and as this thickens, two beaten eggs. Season 
with salt and chopped parsley, and after one good boil take 
from the fire and add a dozen capers. Put the fish into a 
hot dish and pour sauce over it. 

Codfish Balls. 

One coffee-cup of codfish, very finely shreded, eight 
good sized potatoes. Pour boiling water on both together, 
boil twenty-five minutes. Mash with fork, then add one 
tablespoonful of butter, one egg. Form into balls, and 
drop into boiling fat for one minute. 

Picked up Codfish. 

Put fish on the stove in cold water; keep warm, but do 
not boil until the fish is softened; remove bones and skin, 
shred finely, and put in a saucepan, wath rich milk in pro- 
portion of one pint of milk to one cup of fish; let it come 
to a boil and thicken with a teaspoonful of flour. 

Just before taking from the stove, stir in butter the size 
of an egg, and one egg well beaten. Season with pepper 
and garnish with hard boiled eggs. 

The Ideal Cook Book. 

Codfish Balls. 

One pound of codfish picked fine, two pints raw potatoes 

cut in small pieces. Boil together in a little water. When 

done soft, drain and mash ; add three eggs, half a cup of 

butter, and pepper to taste. Make into balls, and fry in 

hot lard. 

The Ideal Cook Book. 



FISH. 11 

Warming over Fish. 

Pick it up finely, mix with drawn butter, line the bottom 
and sides of a pudding dish with mashed potatoes, so that 
it stands up above the edge, pour the fish into the hollow, 
brown all in the oven, and garnish with hard boiled eggs. 

Eclectic Cook Book. 

Fish Chowder. 

Take four slices of salt pork and fry brown in the bottom 
of the pot, and pour off the grease, chop the pork fine. 
Put in the bottom of the pot a layer of haddock or fresh 
cod, any other firm fish will do, cut in thin slices; next a 
layer of crackers with some of the chojDped pork and thin 
slices of onion, then fish, and so on until the whole is used. 
Season with pepper and salt ; pour over hot water enough 
to cover well, and boil one hour. Serve hot as soup. 

Oysters a la Poulette. 

Put a solid quart of oysters on the stove to boil in their 
own liquor. As soon as they begin to boil, skim carefully, 
and turn into a strainer, and when they have been well 
drained set them aside. Put half a pint of oyster liquor 
into a saucepan, and when it begins to boil, stir into it one 
heaping teaspoonful of flour mixed with three tablespoons- 
ful of cold water. Boil gently five minutes longer. Put 
a pint of cream into a double boiler, and when it begins to 
boil, add the thickened oyster liquor. Season with salt and 
pepper, a slight grating of nutmeg, and a grain of cayenne. 
Have at hand the yolks of four eggs, well beaten, and add 
to them half a cupful of cold cream. Now add to the cook- 
ing mixture the oysters, a tablespoouful of butter, and 



12 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

linally the egg mixture. Cook for three minutes, stirring 
all the time ; then remove from the fire immediately, and 
serve . 

Miss Purloa. 

Clam Fritters. 

Two dozen clams chopped. Stir into them three well 
beaten eggs and three tablespoonsful of their own liquor; 
add flour enough to make a thin batter; fry in a spider in 
hot butter and lard. When brown on one side, turn the 
other side. 

Margery Daw in the Kitchen. 

Lobster a la Newburg. 

Three quarters of a pound of lobster, for seven or eight 
people, one claret glass of sherry wine, one cu^) of cream, 
the yolk of one egg. Put butter in pan, then the lobster, 
sherry, pepper and salt. Let it come to a boil. Take the 
cream with the egg, and let it come to a boil ; then put 
lobster in a dish and pour cream over it. 

Mrs. W. H. Beadleston. 

Lobster Patties. 

One pint of lobster cut into dice, half a pint of white 
sauce, a speck of cayenne, one eighth of a teaspoonful of 
mustard; heat all together, fill the shell and serve. 

Miss Parloa. 

Salmon or any kind of fish may be used in the same 
way. 



FISH. 13 

Stewed Clams. 

Take the clams from the shells, as many as you wish, 
put them into a stew pan with their own liquor, butter and 
pepper. Let them stew slowly. Butter some slices of 
toast, and pour them over. Serve in a deep dish. 



MEATS. 



Hunger is the best seasoning for meats." 

Cicero. 



Hash. 

Melt a piece of butter (the size of an egg) in a pan, stir 
in one teaspoonful of flour until smooth, add one cupful of 
milk, stir slowly until it boils, then add one and one-half 
cupful of meat and one cupful of potatoes ; let the hash 
boil five or ten minutes, then put it in the dish and brown 
in the oven. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

Two large cups of chicken chojiped very fine, take 
a piece of butter the size of an egg, and one large spoon 
of flour and melt them together, then add one large cup of 
the water the chicken was boiled in, and one half teacup of 
milk ; cook this to consistency of drawn butter, then add 
one coffee cup of bread crumbs, season with salt and 
pepper, then add the chicken, and cook slowly for a few 
minutes. When done, spread on a dish to cool, then make 
into form, dip them in beaten egg, then roll them in 
crackers crumbs and fry in boiling lard ; this rule makes 
twelve. Veal can be substituted for chicken. 

3Irs. T. F. Sharpe. 



16 Rl VERS IDE RECIFE B OK. 

Mutton Stew. 

Take slices of cold boiled mutton, }out in the stew pan 
one teaspoonful mustard, two teaspoonsful of currant jelly, 
a piece of butter, size of a walnut, nearly a teacup of 
catsup, cook ten minutes, and then ^\\i in the meat, and 
cook until it is thoroughly hot. 

]\Irs. T. F. Shcoye. 

A la Mode Beef. 

Take a round of beef, cut five or six gashes in it, and 
put in your dressing which is seasoned with cloves, nut- 
meg, pepper, salt and butter. Then sew up the gashes 
tie it up in a cloth and boil it two hours, then put it in the 
oven and let it brown over. Boil the water in the pot 

down to a thick grav}^ 

3frs. F. E. Lathrop. 

Chopped Ham for Sandwiches. 

Two pounds of boiled ham chopped fine, one pound of 
butter, one tablespoon of mustard, two tables230on of AVor- 
cestershire sauce, one teacup of cream. Beat all the in- 
gredients together, until they become a smooth paste. 
Then spread between bread without otherwise putting- 
butter on, that being prepared with the ham is sufficient. 

Mrs. S. S. Stewart. 

Cream Chicken. 

Take 3^oung tender chickens and cut them up as for 
fricasse, wash them well and dry in a towel, salt the pieces, 
and dip each one in flour. 

Put nice, clean lard in the frying pan, and when hot lay 
in the chicken and fry slowly, turning the pieces over 



MEATS. 17 

often, frying them brown. It generally takes an hour to 
get them well done, then take the chicken up, piece by 
piece, and put on the platter, then strain the fat into a clean 
frying joan, having it free from all specks, and add a tea cup 
of milk and a piece of butter, mix a tablespoonful of flour in 
a little milk, very smooth, and stir in when it boils. This 
gravy may be poured over the chicken, or put in a gravy 
dish, as you prefer, it must be very white, not thick; 
chopped parsley may be added to the gravy. 

Mrs R. R. Booth. 

Corning Beef. 

Cut and pack the beef in barrel. For one hundred 
pounds take six pounds of salt, two ounces of saltpetre, 
one cup of molasses (or one-half pound of sugar), put them 
in sufficient water to cover the beef. Boil the brine, and 
skim until clear, and pour over the beef while scalding- 
hot. After one week it will be ready for use. 

Spanish Beef. 

Steam three or four pounds of round beef in water (cover 
tight) for three hours, one hour before done j)rit in stewed 
or canned tomatoes, also one onion. Thicken after taking 
oft'. Very nice cold. 

Mrs. J. E. Duryee, 



VEGETABLES. 

'• Cheerful looks make every dish a/easf."— Massingee. 

Preparing Vegetables. 

Always have tliem as fresh as ijossible ; summer 
vegetables should be cooked on the same day they are 
gathered. 

Look them over, and wash well, cutting out all decayed 
or unripe parts. 

Lay 'them, when peeled, in cold water for some time be- 
fore using. 

Always let the water boil before putting them in, and 
continue to boil until done. 

Turnips.— Should be peeled, and boil from forty minutes 
to an hour. 

Beets.— Boil from one to two hours, then put in cold 
water and remove the skin. 

Paksnips. — Boil twenty to thirty minutes. 

Spinach.— Boil twenty minutes, then rub through a 
colander. 

Onions.— Boil in one, two or three waters ; add a little 
milk the last time. 

String Beans. — Boil one hour. 

Lima Beans. —Boil from half an hour to one hour. 



30 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

Green Corn.— Boil thirty minutes. 

Green Peas. —Should be boiled in as little water as 
possible; boil twenty minutes. 

Asparagus.— Same as peas; serve on toast. 

Cabbage.— Should be boiled from one-half hour to one 
hour in plenty of water; salt while boiling. 

Eclectic Cook Book. 

Delmonico Potatoes. 

Fill a puddino- dish with stewed potatoes, grate some 
cheese over the top, and set it in the oven to brown 

over . 

Corn Fritters. 

One dozen ears of corn grated, one tablespoonful melted 

butter, one tablespoonful sweet milk, one-half teacupful 

flour, two eggs, little salt; fry. 

Egg: Plant. 

Slice thin ; sprinkle each slice with salt, pack together 
again, and let remain one hour; drain the water off, dip in 
egg, then in rolled cracker, and fry in hot butter or lard. 

Vegetable Oysters. 

AVash and scrape them well, cut into small round pieces, 
boil them an hour until tender, in sufficient water to cover 
them thoroughly. Pour off the whole, or a part of the 
water, as desired, add cream or milk. Season well witli 
butter, pepper and salt, and if desired, thicken with flour, 
well mixed with cold water. 

Margery Dow in the Kitchen. 



VEGETABLES. 21 

Saratoga Potatoes. 

Slice raw potatoes very thin, and let them stand several 
hours in ice water. Then dry them in a napkin, and fry in 
hot lard, and salt them. 

Baked Beets. 

Use beets uniform in size, wash and prepare the same as 

potatoes for baking; bake four hours, then peel and cut up 

as if boiled, and season to taste. 

3frf^. J. J. Halpin. 

Fried Potatoes -with Cream Sauce. 

Cut raw potatoes into balls or triangles, fry in hot lard, 
and pour over them cream, which has been heated, and 
slightly thickened if necessary. Season the cream with a 
little salt and white pepper. 

Eclectic Cook Booh. 

Green Corn Cakes. 

Six ears of corn grated, the yolks of two eggs, a little 
salt, three rolled crackers. Grease the griddle, drop from 
the spoon, and bake twenty minutes. 

Margery Daiv in the Kitchen. 

Cooked Celery. 

Cut the celery into pieces half an inch long, throw them 

into boiling water with a little salt, and boil three-quarters 

of an hour ; drain off the water and pour on cream if you 

have it, if not, milk enough to cover it. Season with butter, 

pepper, and salt to taste. It is not necessary to use the 

choicest pieces of celery. 

Margery Daio in the Kitchen. 



22 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

Potato Puff. 

Boil the potatoes in salted water, drain off the water, 
and dry them a few minutes. Mash them perfectly smooth. 
To a pint of mashed potato put two tablespoonsful of 
butter, and beat with a large fork, until light and creamy; 
add the yolks of two eggs, a small cup of rich milk, and 
lastly the whites of two eggs beaten to a froth. Beat each 
ingredient in before adding the next. Add more salt if 
needed; put in a buttered baking dish, bake in a quick 
oven until nicely browned. The more thoroughly it is 
beaten the better. The same potato is very nice shaped in 
cones and browned in the oven. 

Margery Daw in the Kitchen. 



ENTREES AND SALADS. 



" i^ is the bounty of nature that we live ; hut of philosophy, that we eat 
well." Seneca. 

"The Spanish proverb says, that, 'to make a perfect salad 
there should be a spendthrift for the oil, a miser for the vinegar, a 
wise man for the salt and mustard, and a madcap to mix them.' " 



Potato Salad. 

Boil eight medium size potatoes with skins on, when cold, 
peel and slice them thick. Put on a dressing of salt, pepper, 
oil and vinegar, and a very little onion. 

iMrs. E, R. Booth. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Yolks of two eggs, one pint of olive oil, one teaspoonful 
of salt, one teaspoonful of mustard, a pinch of Cayenne 
pepper. Put yolks and oil in a cool place several hours 
before using, beat the yolks in a bowl, after beating cons- 
tantly for live minutes, add salt, mustard and Cayenne 
pepper, beat thoroughly, then while gently beating, add 
oil, drop by drop, then in a tiny stream until it begins to 
thicken, then add the juice of lemon, to thin a little, then 
the oil until it is consumed. Set on ice till ready for use. 
Always use a silver fork. 

Margery Data in the Kitchen. 



24 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

Cheese Souflle. 

Take a cup of grated cheese, one tablespoonful corn 

starch, one tablespoonful of butter, one cup of milk, four 

eggs. Put on the milk to boil. When it boils add the 

corn starch and butter, boil for a few minutes. Beat the 

yolks of the eggs and pour on the hot mixture. Let it 

cool and when cold beat the whites and add with the grated 

cheese. Bake half an hour in a moderate oven. Swiss 

cheese is best. 

Mr^. Wm. T. Booth. 

Chocolate Souffle. 

One quarter pound grated vanilla chocolate, one quarter 
pound almonds blanched and pounded, six ounces sifted 
sugar, and yolks of eight eggs. Stir this together for a half 
hour, whisk whites to snow, and stir gently with the rest. 
Butter mould well, strew it with bread crumbs, put in all 

and bake one hour. 

Mrs. J. J. Halpin. 

Lobster Farcie. 

Two medium-sized lobsters, one half pint of bread 
crumbs, one pint cream, one tablespoonful of butter, one 
and a half tablespoonsful of flour, one half teaspoonful of 
dry mustard, a dash of red pepper, and salt to taste. Mix 
these ingredients with a portion of the cream, then add 
all to the scalding cream and boil one minute. Allow it to 
cool, then put in small shaped chop dishes or tins, adding 
bread crumbs and a small lump of butter to each, also a 
lobster claw pushed in the end, and brown in the oven. 



ENTREES AND SALADS. 25 

Puree of Salmon. 

Open a small can of salmon and remove all bone, skin, 
oil, &c. Mash fine. Put over, in a double boiler, one 
quart of milk, one teaspoonful of salt, one salt spoon 
ground mace, one pinch of red pepper ; add one spoonful 
of butter and one heaping tablespoonful of corn starch dis- 
solved in a cup of cold water ; pour this slowly into boiling 
milk till it thickens. When smooth and thick, put in salmon. 
Let cook together five minutes and rub through a fine 
sieve. Put back and bring to a boil, and eat with crisp 
crackers (which are Boston crackers, split, buttered, and 
browned in quick oven). 



Welsh Rare-bit. 

One pound of cheese cut up in small pieces (fresh 

country cheese is the best). Put a piece of butter the size 

of a small egg in a sauce pan, then add the cheese, stir 

well till nearly melted, then add small teacup of ale, red 

pepper, salt and mustard to taste. The Rare-bit must be 

served very hot on buttered toast. This quantity of cheese 

makes four portions. 

M's. D. Laurence Shaiv. 



Hominy Croquettes. 

A cup of fresh boiled hominy, a tablespoonful of melted 
butter, a teaspoonful of sugar, two tablespoonsful of milk, 
and a well beaten egg. Add enough flour to make into 
balls, roll in cracker crumbs and fry in hot lard. 

St. Andrews M. E. Church Book. 



26 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

chicken SoufRe, 

For twelve people, the breast of three large chickens is 
required. Mix one quarter pound of butter with one cup 
of flour in a sauce pan on the fire, add a pint of milk and 
beat it up to a smooth sauce. Chop your chicken breast 
very fine (after boiling) when cold, then mix the sauce 
thoroughly through it. Add yolks of two eggs, then 
squeeze it through a sieve. 

Beat one pint of cream and whites of two eggs and then 

mix everything thoroughly together, add salt and juice of 

the truffles to taste, grease your form, which is better to 

have a hole in the middle, and put some of the truffles in 

the bottom, then put mixture in the form, set the mould in 

a pan of water in a moderate oven with a greased paper on 

top. Bake from a half to three quarters of an hour. It 

will rise and when stiflfis done. 

Mrs. Eva Peter so)k 

A Nice Way to Cook Chicken. 

Cut the chicken up, put into a pan and cover with water; 
let it stew as usual. AVhen done, make a thickening of 
cream and flour; add butter, pepper and salt ; have ready 
nice slices of toast cut thick, or shortcake baked, and cut 
in squares; lay on the dish and pour the chicken and gravy 
over them while hot. 

Broiled Sweetbreads. 

Parboil, split, rub well with butter, and broil on a 
greased gridiron ; turn frequently and dip in hot melted 
butter, to prevent them from getting too dry . Serve with 
peas. St. Andrew.^ M. E. Church Book. 



ENTREES AND SALADS. 27 

Salad Dressing. 

Beat tlie yolks of three eggs with one tablespoonful of 
sugar, add one half teaspoonful of mustard, one table- 
spoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of salt, one tumbler 
of vinegar, set the ingredients in a basin on the range, 
stirring constantly till it thickens. Add a tablespoonful 

of sweet cream if you have it. 

Margery Daiv i)i the Kitchen. 

Chicken Salad. 

Take five chickens, boil until very tender leaving them 
in the liquor to cool. Take them out and cut in small 
pieces. To one part of chicken take two of celery, but less 
will do. Cut the celery lengthwise, slice off thin and put 
in salted ice water until ready to mix. 

Dressing.— The yolks of eight or ten raw eggs, one large 
bottle of salad oil, three or four teaspoonsful of mustard, 
three teaspoonsful pepper, six teaspoonsful of sugar, one-half 
CU13 of vinegar. Beat the yolks until very smooth, then 
add the oil a few drops at a time, beating all the while. 
When the oil is half beaten in add the spices, the last half 
of the oil may be added faster. Just before serving mix 
the chicken, the celery and nearly alltlie dressing, reserve 
a little to pour over the top. Ornament with olives, 
radishes, &c. This is sufficient for forty persons. 

Margery Daiv in the Kitchen. 

To Roast Birds. 

Pluck and draw them, rub a little butter over them, 
tie a strip of bacon over the breast, and i^lace in a brisk 
oven for a half hour. Serve with toast and jelly. 



28 RIVERSIDE RECJPE BOOK. 

Bread Tarts. 

Six tablespoonsful of bread crumbs, six tablespoonsful of 
sugar, six eggs, one wine glass of claret, one pony of 
brandy, one quarter pound chopped almonds. Chopped 
citron and lemon rind, two bars of chocolate. Soak bread 
crumbs in claret and mix all together thoroughl}^, adding 
whites of eggs last, well beaten. Serve with or without 
sauce. 

Mrs. J. J. Ha/jjin. 

Sidney Smith's Receipt for Salad Dressing. 

" Two boiled potatoes, strained through a kitchen sieve^ 

Softness and smoothness to the salad gives ; 

Of mordant mustard take a single spoon, 

Distrust the condiment that bites too soon ; 

Yet deem it not. Thou man of taste, a fault, 

To add a double quantity of salt ; 

Four times the spoon wdth oil of Lucca crown, 

And twice with vinegar procured from town ; 

True taste requires it, and your poet begs 

The pounded yellow of two well boiled eggs. 

Let onions' atone lurk within bowl, 

And, scarce susjDected, animate the whole ; 

And lastly, in the flavored compound toss 

A magic spoonful of anchovy sauce. 

Oh, great and glorious ! oh, herbaceous meat ! 

I would tempt the dying anchorite to eat. 

Back to the world he'd turn his weary soul, 

And plunge his finger in the salad bowl." 



SAUCES. 

*' Silight flavoring pleases much oftener than much flavoring " 

Noodles for Soup. 

Take one egg^ two tablespoonful of flour, a small tea- 
spoonful of baking powder, a little salt. Beat the egg 
liglit, stir the floor with the baking powder and salt, add 
the egg. Ten minutes before serving the soup, drop this 
batter from the spoon into it. 

Bread Dice for Soup. 

Take slices of stale bread cut in small squares ; throw 
into the soup tureen before serving the soup. Crackers 
crisped in the oven are nice to serve with oyster soup. 

Poached Eggs for Consomme. 

Break the eggs, which should be very fresh, into a deep 
sauce-pan half full of boiling water, seasoned with a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and half a gill of vinegar, cover the sauce- 
pan, and set it on the back part of the fire until the whites 
of the eggs are firm, then lift them separately on a skim- 
mer, carefully trim off the rough edges, making each egg 
a regular oval shape, and slip them off the skimmer into a 
bowl of hot, but not boiling water, where they must stand 
for ten minutes before serving. 



30 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

Egg Balls for Soup. 

Rub the yolks of three or four hard boiled eggs to a 
smooth paste, with a very little melted butter. To this add 
two raw^ ones, beaten light, and enough flour to hold the 
paste together. Make into balls with floured hands, and 
set in a cold place until just before your soup comes off, 
when droj) in carefully, and boil one minute. 

Dra^wn Butter. 

Stir two teaapoonsful of flour into a heaping tablespoon- 
ful of butter ; stir into a cup of boiling milk, add salt to 
taste and boil one minute. 

Celery Sauce. 

Cut up white part of celery, boil well in a very little 
water, when soft add cream, salt, mace, pepper, flour and 
butter, mixed together in small quantities. 

Creamy Sauce. 

Half a cupful of butter, one cupful of powdered sugar, 
quarter cupful of cream or milk, four tablespoonsful of 
wine, or one teaspoonsful of lemon or vanilla extract, if 
lemon or vanilla is used, add four tablespoonsful of cream. 
Beat the butter to a cream, add sugar gradualh^, beating- 
all the while. When light and creamy add the wine, and 
then the cream, a little at a time. When all is beaten 
smooth, place the basin in a bowl of hot water, and stir 
until the sauce is smooth and creamy. It will take but a 
few minutes. 



SA UCES. 31 

Sauce Tartare. 

Two yolks of raw 3^olks, one half cupful of oil, three 
tablespoonsful of vinegar, one of mustard, one teaspoonful 
of sugar, one of salt, one of onion juice, one tablespoonful 
(each) of chopped capers and chopped cucumber pickles and 
a little pepper. Make the same as mayonnjiise dressing, 
adding the chopped ingredients last. 

Sauce for Plum or Fruit Pudding". 

Grate a quarter of a small nutmeg, one cup of sugar, one 
half cup of butter, one egg (beaten separately), one table- 
spoon of flour, one third cup of brandy or wine, beat sugar 
and butter to a cream, add 3 oik of egg mixed with the 
flour, then the brandy or wine, and last the white of egg 
and nutmeg. Jfrs. F. Kellogg. 



BREADS. 



" Dinner may be pleascmt, 
So may social tea. 
But yet, me thinks the breakfast 
Isbest of all the three.''' 



Tu making bread during cold weather, the flour should 
be thoroughly warmed before fmixing. Care should be 
taken to have the yeast fresh, and to keep the dough from 
getting chilled while rising. 

To Cut Warm Bread. 

Heat a thin-bladed knife on the stove or in boiling 
water. 

Tip Top Rolls. 
Two heaping cups of flour, one tablespoonful of sugar, 
one egg, one cup of milk, one tablespoonful of butter, 
two teaspoonsful of baking powder; bake in roll pan. 

Mrs. T. F. Sharpe. 

Corn Bread. 

One cup of corn meal, one cup of flour, two eggs, two 

tablespoonsful of melted butter, half a pint of sweet milk, 

two and a-half teaspoonsful of baking powder, a pinch of 

salt. 

Mrs. T. F. Sharpe. 



34 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

Tea Rolls. 

Two quarts of flour, one pint of milk, one tablespoonful 
of butter. Scald milk and cool, two dessertspoonsful of 
sugar, one cup of yeast. 

Put all of these in flour, but not mix until morning, then 
knead and put away to use. 

Make into rolls and let rise to bake. 

Muffins. 

One quart of flour with three teaspoonsful baking- 
powder sifted inio it, three eggs, yolks and whites beaten 
separately, one tablespoonful melted butter, and milk 
enough for a stiff batter. 

Mrs. R. R. Booth. 

Puffett. 

One pint milk, three pints flour, three teaspoonsful 
baking powder, three eggs, one tea cup sugar, not quite 
a cup of butter, a little salt. Bake thirty minutes. 

Mrs. F. E. LathroiJ. 

Biscuits. 

One quart flour, three teaspoons baking powder, piece 
of butter the size of an egg, mix with water, or half milk; 
roll and cut. 

Mrs. F. E. LathroiD. 

Muffins. 

One quart of milk, three eggs, tablespoonful of butter. 
Make batter with flour thicker than griddle cakes, two 
teaspoonsful cream of tartar and one of soda. 

Mrs. F. E. Lathrop. 



BREADS. 35 

Pop Overs. 

Two eggs, two cups milk, two cups flour, piece of butter 
size of a walnut. Bake in pop-over tins. 

Mrs. F. E. Lathrop. 

Puffs for Breakfast. 

One 2)int of milk, one pint of flour, two eggs, a piece of 
butter the size of a egg, a pinch of salt. Place the flour in 
a basin, make a hollow in the centre, put in the lump of 
butter, the eggs and the salt. Work butter and eggs well 
together, and add the milk gradually, bringing all to a 
smooth batter. Bake in patty pans, from one quarter to 
half an hour, according to the heat of the oven . 

Tea Cakes. 

One pint of milk, three eggs, one tablespoon of butter, 
four large tablespoons of flour, half a teaspoonful of baking 
powder; bake in jelly cake tins in a quick oven, butter 
them while hot, and place one above the other. 

Waffles. 

One quart of sour cream (or milk, and a piece of butter 
size of an egg) one teaspoonful saluratus, three eggs; 
make as thick as pancakes, and bake when waflle iron is 
hot, and well greased. 

Corn Bread. 

One pint milk, two eggs, one and one half cups flour, 
two large tablespoonsful melted lard, one teaspoonful of 
soda, two of cream tartar, salt, and a very little sugar. 

Miss Bi^own. 



36 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK, 

Corn Cake. 

One cup of yellow Indian meal, one cup of flour, one 
egg well beaten separately, one cup of sweet milk, one 
even teaspoonful of soda, two even teaspoonsful of cream 
of tartar, a little salt. You can use rye in j^lace of Indian 
for a change. 

Mm. R. R. Booth. 

Graham MufB.ns. 

Two cups of graham flour, one half cup of sugar, one 
cup of milk, one Qgg^ one tablesi30onful of butter, two 
teaspoonsful of Royal Baking Powder, a little salt. 

St. Andreivs M. E. Church Book. 

Gems. 

One cup of flour, one cup of milk, one egg and a little 
salt. Bake in gem tins about twenty minutes, and serve 
hot. 



DESSERTS 



"Trifles, light as air." 

Weights and Measures. 

One cup, medium size, holds a half j^int. 

Two cups, medium size, of sifted flour weighs half a 
pound. 

One pint of sifted flour weighs half a pound. 

One pint of sugar weighs one j^ound. 

Two cups of granulated sugar, one pound. 

Two tablespoons of liquid, one ounce. 

Ten eggs, one pound. 

One quart of flour, one pound. 

One j^int of finely choj^ped meat, packed solidly, one 
pound. 

Butter, one pint, one pound, when well packed. 

A common sized tumbler holds half a pint. 

Velvet Cream . 

Two tablespoonsful of gelatine dissolved iua half tumbler 
of water, one pint of rich cream, four tablespoons of sugar, 
flavor with almond or vanilla extract, or rose water. Put 
in mould and set on the ice. Serve with whij^ped cream. 



38 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

Lemon Cream. 

One lemon, peel and juice, four tablespoonsful of sugar, 

two tablespoonsful cold water. Beat the yolks of four 

eggs, and add tlie lemon, sugar and water ; let it thicken 

on the stove, stirring constantly, then stir in the beaten 

whites of the eggs with two tablespoons of sugar, and take 

the mixture off the fire. 

Margery Daw in the Kitchen. 

Huckleberry Pudding. 

One quart of canned huckleberries, one quart of flour, 
one 23int molasses, one tablespoon of soda. Mix molasses 
well together. Put some of the flour on the berries, mix 
all together, adding spice, cinnamon, allspice, ginger, in 
all a tablespoonful. A very little cloves, mace, and add 
salt. Steam three hours. 

3Irs. G. Hickok. 

Cream Pie. 

Six eggs, two cups of sugar, two cups flour, one tea- 
spoonful of soda ; two of cream tartar. Beat eggs 
sej^aratel}^ ; then together, add sugar, then soda dissolved 
in water and cream tartar mixed in flour, then add flour. 
Bake in jelly cake i^ans. 

Custard for Sauce. — Two eggs, one cuj) sugar, three- 
quarters of a cup of flour (or corn starch), one pint of 
milk. This is put between two loaves of cake (as jelly 
cake) with or without a meringue on top, and one half tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. This makes three loaves, and two eggs 
makes a meringue for one pie. 



DESSERTS. 3& 

Cold Cream Pudding. 

One pound of loaf sugar, quarter of a pint of water, 
boiled together until the sugar begins to roj^e, the whites 
of eight eggs, beaten to a stiff froth ; mix these with the 
above while hot; one quarter of a box of gelatine, dissolved 
in a little water, add a little peach juice (either canned or 
fresh), three peaches sliced fine, some pineapple and 
oranges, a little grated cocoanut; flavor with vanilla, 
liquid sauce, with a little orange juice, and grated rind. 



Ambrosia. 

Sliced oranges and grated cocoanut laid in layers in a 
glass dish, and serve. 

Mrs. F. Kellogg. 

Coffee Jelly. 

One pint of sugar, one pint of strong coffee, a pint and 
a half of boiling water, half a pint of cold water, a box of 
gelatine. Soak the gelatine two hours in the cold water, 
pour the boiling water on it, and when it is dissolved add 
the sugar and coffee, strain, turn into moulds, and set away 
to harden; to be served with sugar and cream. 

Miss Farloa. 

Caramel Custard. 

Two heaping tablespoonsful dark brown sugar, burn in 
an old tin, mix with enough milk to soften it. Then strain 
it, and stir it into a quart of soft custard. Flavor with 
vanilla. 

Mrs. F. E. Lofhroj). 



40 Rl VERS IDE RECIPE BOOK. 

Wine Jelly, 

One box of gelatine in a pint of cold water, with the 

juice, and grated peel of three lemons. Let this stand 

overnight, then add one quart of boiling water, one pound 

of granulated sugar, one pint of sherry or white wine, stir 

until it is dissolved, and strain through paper muslin, then 

pour into moulds or tumblers, and stand in a cool place 

until hard. 

Mrs. W. H. BpadleHton. 

Indian Pudding. 

One quart of milk and a little f-alt, with one quarter 
pound suet, finely chopped. Let them be scalding hot, 
put tbe dish in a kettle of boiling water to avoid burning, 
and add a little nutmeg, Indian meal, to make it of the 
con^iistency of mush, sweeten to taste (two scant cups of 
meal stirred in gradually). 

Mrs. F. E, La(hrop. 



t>' 



Pie Pastry. 

Three cups of Hour, one cup of lard, and almost a cup of 
water, mix together with knife, roll thin and spread with 
very little butter, the second rolling use for crust. 

3rrs. F. E. Lathrop. 

Lemon and Raisin Pie. 

Take the inside of one lemon, except the seeds, chop 
with half a cupful of seeded raisins, add two small table- 
spoonsful of flour, one cup of sugar, and one cuj) of water; 
bake with two crusts. This makes one pie. 

Berkshire Cook Book. 



DESSERTS. 41 

Fig Pudding. 

One half -poiiiid bread crumbs, one half pound of figs, 
one half pound of brown sugar, two eggs, a little nutmeg, 
one quarter pound suet, a teacup of milk, one quarter 
pound of flour. The figs and suet to be chopped very fine 
and mixed with the bread crumbs, fiour, sugar and nut- 
meg; stir all together and add the milk and eggs well 
beaten. Boil in a mould four hours. To be eaten with 
sauce, hard or soft. 

Mrs. W. H. Beadledon. 



Lemon Pudding. 

Beat together the yolks of ten eggs, one half pound of 
powdered sugar, juice of three lemons and peel of one. 
Soak one ounce of gelatine in three-eights of a pint of hot 
water, and beat well. Beat whites of eggs very stiff and 
stir in last. 

Sauce. — Boil one pint of cream, and one quarter of a 

pound of powdered sugar. Beat yolks of four eggs, and 

stir in, flavor to taste. 

Norwegian Recipe, Mrs. Donald. 

Orange Baskets. 

Make baskets of eight oranges, strain the juice and make 

a jelly, with three pints of water, gelatine and sugar. Fill 

baskets, and when firm, cut orange peel in quarters, tie 

with ribbon, and serve one on each plate, with whips, made 

with cream to ornament the top. 

MvH. J. J. Holpin. 



42 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

Raspberry Joy. 

Take the juice from a can of raspberries and strain it, 
then beat to a froth the whites of four eggs, adding a cup 
of powdered sugar, gradually stir in the jnice and a tea- 
spoonful of gelatine dissolved in a half teacup of water; 
pour in moulds and freeze before serving. 

Mrs. J. J. Halpin, 



CAKE. 



With weights and measures Just and tru( 

Oven of even heat, 
Well buttered tins and quiet nerves, 

Success will be complete." 



General Directions. 

Plour. — Should always be sifted before using. 

Ceeam of Tartar — or baking powder should be sifted in 
the flour. 

Soda. — Should always be dissolved in the milk. 

Butter and Sugar. — For cake, should always be beaten 
to a cream. 

Eggs. — Beat the yolks until you can take up a spoonful ; 
whip the whites to a stiff froth, and stir them into the 
cake with the flour, the last thing before putting the cake 
into tins. 

To BOIL A PUDDING. — Dip the bag into cold water, and 
sprinkle the inside with flour. 

To PREVENT THE JUICE FROM RUNNING OUT OF A PIE. Take a 

a strij) of muslin wide enough to cover the edge of the pie 
and go around it and lap ; wet the cloth in cold water, and 
pin around the pie; when it is taken from the oven, remove 
the cloth. 



44 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

Delicate Cake. 

Two cups of sugar (granulated), one cup of butter, two 

cuj^s of flour, one cup of milk, one cup of corn starch; the 

whites of six eggs, two teaspoonsful of baking powder, 

mix sugar and butter to a cream, then take half of the uiilk 

and mix with sugar and butter, and sift Hour twice ; mix 

corn starch with the remainder of milk, and at the last, mix 

the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Soft icing flavored with 

lemon. 

Mrs. G. fficIcol\ 

Angel Cake. 

One cup of flour, one and one half cups of powdered 

sugar, one teaspoonful of cream tartar mixed with flour 

sifted twelve times. Whites of eleven eggs beaten to a 

stiff froth, one teaspoonful of vanilla, then beat more. 

Stir the flour and sugar in egg sufficient to mix. Do not 

grease the tin. Bake thirty of forty minutes in a slow 

oven. When taken out of the oven, turn in a colander 

upside down. 

Mrs. F. Kellogg. 

Coffee Cake. 

One scant cuj) of granulated sugar, two thirds of a cup of 
butter, two eggs, two cups of flour, two teaspoonsful of 
baking powder, two thirds cake of Baker's chocolate dis- 
solved in one cup of boiling hot coffee, strong flavor. 

Soft Icing. — One cup sugar, one third cup of boiling 

water. Boil five minutes without stirring, then stir until it 

hardens. 

Mrs. G. Hickok, 



CAKE. 45 

Helen Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, half a cup butter, three cups of flour, 
one cup of sweet milk, three eggs, two teaspoon ful of 
baking powder. Bake in square tins, sprinkle half cup 
stifted sugar on the top before baking. 

Mrs. T. F. Sharpe. 

Crullers. 

Two and a half cups powdered sugar, one half cup butter 
one pint milk, three eggs, two teaspoonsful of soda, three 
teaspoonsful cream tartar, a little salt, nutmeg and lemon 
flavor, mix soft. Cut in fancy shapes and fry in hot lard. 

Mi.^s Beadledon. 

Orange Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, two cups of flour, half a cup of water 
that has been boiled and cooled, j'Olks of five eggs, whites 
of four eggs, the rind and juice of one sour orange, half 
a teaspoon of soda, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar ; 
bake in layers. Take the rind and juice of one orange, the 
white of one egg, beaten to a stiff froth, sugar enough to 
stiffen, spread between the layers, and on top. 

Molasses Cake. 

Two cups of molasses, one cup of butter mixed together, 
one tablespoonf ul of soda dissolved in one cup of boiling 
water, stir quickly and thicken with flour, adding one half 
teasj^Oonful of essence of lemon and one half teaspoonful 
vanilla. Dried currants or raisins make it a delicious cake, 
or spices may be added if desired. 

Mr.^. A. Hay. 



46 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

Sponge Cake. 

Beat four eggs very light, yolks and whites together, 
then beat in two cups of powdered sugar, one cup of sifted 
flour, a little at a time, then a second cui3 of flour, with two 
teaspoousful of baking powder mixed in it, the juice and rind 
of one lemon, lastly a small tea cup full of almost boiling- 
water stirred in gradually, put in a moderate oveii and do 
not look at it for twenty minutes. It should be done in 
that time. Do not stir sponge cake from the bottom when 
adding the last flour, or it will be heav}'. 

Mrs, A. Hay. 

Orange Cake. 

Five eggs beaten separately, three coffea cups of sugar, 
three quarters of a coffee cup of butter, one coffee cup of 
sweet milk, four coffee cups of flour, juice of one orange, 
and a little of the j-ind (grated), one teaspoonful of soda, 
two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar. Place yolks, sugar, 
butter, and the orange juice in a large bowl; beat until 
light and creamy. Then add the milk, whites of eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth, then the flour (soda and saleratus); 
dissolve soda in the milk. Bake in jelly pans. 

Icing. — One coffee cup of granulated sugar, Avhite of 
one egg, juice of one orange. Put the sugar on stove, in 
just enough water to moisten ; let it boil until clear, and 
will spin a thread. Have the whites of the egg well 
beaten, and have some one drip the sugar in while you are 
beating, and continue to heat until it is thick and white, 
then stir in the orange juice ; should it make it too thin, 
add more sugar until thick enough. This makes a very 
large and delicious cake. Mrs. F. Kellogg. 



CAKE. 47 

Pearl Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, one half cup of butter, one cup sweet 

milk, three and a half cups of sifted flour, one third cup corn 

starch, whites of five eggs, two teaspoonsful of cream tartar 

and One of soda, or three of baking powder. 

Mrs. A. Hay. 

Ginger Cake. 

One cup milk, one cup molasses, very large tablespoon 
of drippings, one eg^, one quarter teaspoonful of soda, 
cinnamon, ginger and not very thick with flour, and a little 
salt. ^^^^ ^' 

Jumbles. 
One pound sugar, not quite a pound of butter, three 
eggs, a little grated nutmeg, a small quantity of soda in a 
half cup of milk, or less, to dissolve it, but not enovigh to 
thin the mixture too much, roll out as thin as possible 
and cut. ^*'«s ^• 

Fig cake. 
One cup of pulverized sugar, one half cup of butter, one 
cup of milk, three cups of flour, yolks of three eggs. 
Eeserve the whites for filling. Two teapoonsful (even) of 
baking powder, in the sifted flour. Bake in jelly cake tins. 
Filling.— Boil one coffee cup of granulated sugar with 
a tablespoonful of water in a porcelain sauce pan till it 
drops like candy in cold water. Have the whites of the 
eggs beaten stiff, and pour the boiling icing into whites, 
and add the figs after. Have a half-pound of figs boiled 
one hour and chopped fine, then add all together and put 

between the layers. 

Mrs. Varick. 



48 m VERS IDE RECIPE BOOK. 

Sponge Cake. 

One 130 uud sugar, ten eggs, half pound flour and one 
lemon. Beat eggs separately, and add juice and grated 
rind of a large lemon, beat well before putting flour in, 
which comes last. 

3frs. F. E, Lalhrop. 

Bread Cake. 

Two cups of dough, one cup of sugar, one half cup of 
butter, two eggs, one half tablespoonful of milk, one half 
teaspoonful soda dissolved in the milk, one half cup of 
raisins, one half cup of currants; add cinnamon, cloves, and 
nutmeg to taste. Let raise for some time, the longer the 
better, and bake in not too hot an oven, until thoroughly 
done« 

Miss R. K 



CANDIES. - 

WIT^HOUT COOKINO. 

*' Sweets to the Siveet," 



French Cream. 

These candies are made without boiling, which makes 
them very desirable, and they are equal to the best French 
creams. The secret lies in the sugar used which is the 
XXX powdered or confectioners sugar. It can be obtained 
at the large groceries. Ordinary i^owdered sugar when 
rubbed between the thumb and finger has a decided 
grain, but the confectioners sugar is fine as flour. Mar- 
gery Daw promises perfect success in following these 
recipes. 

French Vanilla Cream. 

Break into a bowl the white of one or more eggs, as the 
quantity you wish to make will require, add to it an equal 
quantity of cold water, then stir in XXX powdered or con- 
fectioners' sugar until you have it stiff enough to mould 
into shape with the fingers. Flavor with vanilla to taste. 
After it is formed into balls, cubes or lozenger shapes, lay 
them upon plates or waxed paper and set them aside 
to dry. This cream is the foundation of all French 
creams. 



^50 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

English Walnut Creams. 

Make French cream as previously directed. Have ready 
some English walnuts, using care not to break the meats. 
Make a ball of the cream about the size of a walnut and 
place a half nut meat upon either side of the ball, pressing- 
it into the cream. Lay them away for a few hours to 
dry. 

Cream Cherries. 

Make a small round ball of French cream, cut a strip of 
citron the size of a cherry stem, and put the ball of cream 
upon one end of it. Take a cherry glace, and cutting it 
in two, put one half each side of the stem on the cream 
ball and it will make a very pretty candy. They can also 
be made like walnut creams, using cherries instead of wal- 
nuts. Margery Daw in the Kitchen . 

Cream Dates. 

Select perfect dates, and with a knife remove the pit. 
Take a piece of French cream, make an oblong shape, and 
wrap the date around the cream. 

Wintergreen Creams. 

Make the cream as directed for French cream, flavor 
with wintergreen essence to taste. Color pink with 
cochineal syrup, and form into round lozenger shapes. 

Margery Daw in the Kitchen. 

Peppermint Creams. 

Make the cream as directed for French creams, flavoring 
it quite strong with essence of peppermint. Take small 
bits of the cream and shape into round flat forms. 



CANDIES. 51 

Maple Sugar Creams. 

Grate maple sugar, mix it in quantities to suit taste, with 
French cream, adding enough confectioners sugar to 
mould into any shape desired. Walnut creams are some- 
times made with maple sugar and are very nice. 



CANDIES. 

COOKED. 



Molasses Taffy. 

One cup of molasses, one cui^ of sugar, apiece of butter 
the size of an egg. Boil hard, and test in cold water; when 
brittle, pour in thin cakes on buttered tins ; as it cools 
mark in squares with the back of a knife. 

Margery Daw in the Kitchen. 

Pea-nut Candy. 

Two cups molasses, one cup of brown sugar, one table- 
spoonful of butter and one of vinegar. Put into a kettle 
to boil. Having cracked and rubbed the skin from the 
pea-nuts, }3ut them into buttered pans, and when the candy 
is done pour it over the nuts. Cut into blocks while 
warm. 

Chocolate Caramels. 

One cup sugar, one cup molasses, one cup of chocolate, 

one half cup of milk, a piece of butter size of an egg. Test 

in water before putting in the grated chocolate, if it 

hardens, add the chocolate, and cook only a short time, then 

pour into buttered pans. When cool mark into blocks with 

the back of a knife. 

Miss H. 



54 Rl VERS IDE RECJPE BOOK. 

Molasses Candy. 

Two cups of molasses, one cup of sugar, apiece of butter 
the size of a small egg, one tablespoonfvil of glycerine. 
Put these ingredients into a kettle and boil hard twenty or 
thirty minutes. When boiled thick drop a few drops in a 
cup of cold water, and if the drops retain their sliaj^e it is 
nearly done, which will be when it is brittle ; do not boil it 
too much. Have i^ans or platters well buttered, and just 
before the candy is poured into them, stir in one half tea- 
spoonful of cream tartar or soda. If flavoring is desired, 
drop the flavoring on the top as it begins to cool, and when 
it is pulled the whole will be flavored. Pull till as white as 
desired, and draw into sticks and cut with shears. 

Everton Taffy. 

Three pounds of brown sugar, one and one half pints of 
water, not quite half a pound of butter. Boil until the 
syrup becomes crisj). 

Chocolate Creams. 

Use French cream and form it into small cone-shaped balls 
with the fingers; lay them upon oiled paper to harden 
until all are formed. Melt one cake of baker's chocolate in 
an earthen dish or small basin; by setting it in the oven it 
will soon melt ; do not let it cook. To keep the chocolate 
hot, it is well to have a hot soap stone, and place the basin 
with the chocolate upon it. Take the balls of cream one 
at a time on a silver fork, pour the melted chocolate over 
them with a teaspoon and slip them from the fork upon 
oiled paper. 



CANDIES. 55 

Butter Scotch. 

One cup of brown sugar, one half cup of water, one tea- 
spoonful of vinegar, piece of butter the size of a walnut. 
Boil about twenty minutes, flavor if desired. 

Margery Daw in the Kitchen. 

Pea-nut Candy. 

Shell your peanuts and chop them fine ; measure them 
in a cup, and take just the same quantity of granulated 
sugar as you have peanuts. Put the sugar in a skillet or 
spider, on the fire, and keep moving the skillet around 
until the sugar is dissolved; then put in the peanuts and 
pour into buttered tins. This is delicious and so quickly 
made. 

Mhs B. 
Pop Corn Balls. 

Six quarts of popped corn, one pint of molasses. Boil 
the molasses about fifteen minutes ; then put the corn into 
a large pan, pour the molasses over it, and stir briskly 
until thoroughly mixed. Then, with clean hands, make 
into balls of the desired size, or put in buttered pans. 



HINTS FOR THE SICK. 



Never keep fruit in a sick room; the sight of it is apt to 
lessen the appetite for it. An orange delicately prepared, 
or a bunch of Malaga or other nice grapes, brought in on a 
dessert plate with a few green leaves, will form a tempting 
and agreeable surprise to the capricious appetite of an 
invalid. 

Sago, prepared like a custard, then baked with apples is 
an excellent sick room pudding. 

Oysters are good for the sick, especially raw (without 
vinegar, lemon juice may be used) a very few at a time. 
They are easily digested and agreeable to the palate. 

Fresh tea should be made as often as the invalid needs 
it, and no food nor drink should remain in the sick room 
but should be kept in adjoining room or outside of the 
window where they would be fresh and cool. 

Every meal should be a surprise, and the patient should 
be left alone while eating if possible. 

Food should be made as attractive as possible, served in 
the choicest china, with the cleanest of napkins and the 
brightest of silver. 



58 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK, 

Beef Tea. 

Take one pound of lean beef, chopped fine (at the mar- 
ket) pour over it one j)int of cold water, let it stand an 
hour. Then set it on the back of the range, and let it sim- 
mer slowly about three quarters of an hour; strain and salt 
when used. 

Chicken Broth. 

One chicken jointed, cover it with water, and let it boil, 
closely covered, until the meat drops from the bones. Skim 
off the fat, strain and season with salt, and if desired a tea- 
spoonful or two of rice, and let it boil until the rice is 
cooked. In some cases of nausea a cup of chicken broth 
will prove efficacious. 

Mutton Broth. 

To each pound of meat add one quart of cold water, 
bring gently to a boil, skim it and salt to taste ; simmer 
three hours. A teaspoonful or more of rice may be added, 
and boil till the rice is cooked. 

Oatmeal Gruel. 

Stir two large spoonsful of oatmeal into one pint of 
boiling water, boil gently one half hour, skim, and add a 
little salt, sugar and nutmeg. 

Lemonade. 

Two large juicy lemons, or three smaller ones, one large 
cup of sugar, and one quart of ice water. Rij^e straw- 
berries mashed and added are very delicious, or grated 
pine apple if preferred. 



HINTS FOR THE SICK. 5^ 

Flaxseed Tea. 

One half pound of flaxseed, one half pound of rock candy, 
the juice of three lemons, the skin may be cut into small 
pieces and added. Pour over this two quarts of boiling 
water, and let it stand until perfectly cold. Strain before 
drinking; this is good for a cough ; more sugar and lemon 
may be added. 

Cure for a Felon. 

Two drachms of gum ammoniac dissolved in one ounce 
of alcohol. Bind the finger up in a linen cloth, and keep it 
constantly wet with the solution. Add more alcohol if 
necessary. (Gum ammoniac is a brown gum). This has 
been tried very successfully. 

To Check a Cold. 

As soon as you feel that you have taken cold, fill a glass 
half full of water, drop into it six drops of spirits of cam- 
l^hor, stir it and take a dessertspoonful every twenty 
minutes. This is remarkably successful if taken according 
to directions. 

Koumys. 
Three pints of milk, one tablespoon ful of sugar, one half 
Vienaese yeast cake. Place on stove and let it grow warm 
very slowly, a little over blood heat, one hundred 
degrees. Take milk and strain it and bottle, placing bot- 
tles near fire and heat through turning bottles every ten 
minutes. After shaking put in window till cool, then put 
in ice box. Heat bottles before filling with koumys ; use 
bottles with fastenings like beer bottles. 

Jlrs. J. J. Halpin. 



60 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

Koumys. 

One quart of milk, one dessertspoonful of brewers yeast, 
one teas^Doonful sugar, mix last two together and a little 
milk, then stir thoroughly into the rest of the milk and 
bottle. After bottling keep in warm room for twelve hours, 
then put in a cold place and the second or third day it will 

be ready for use. 

Miss H. 

For Catarrh. 

Pulverized camphor, carbonate of soda, powdered sugar, 
half as much sugar as camphor, half as much soda as 
sugar. Mix thoroughly in a mortar and snuff half hour 
before retiring, also in morning when arising. 

Miss K 

E-heumatism or any Pain. 

One tablespoon of laudanum, one teaspoon baking soda, 
half pint of water; heat all together, and wring out a 
flannel in it, and appl}' as hot as i^ossible. 

Miss H. 

Throat Gargle. 

One pint hot water, one tablesjDOon of tannin, two 
tablespoonsful glycerine, gargle often, excellent for sore 

throat. 

Miss H. 

Tonic. 

Thirty grains of quinine in one pint of sherry, with forty 
drops of diluted sulj^huric acid to mix the two. 

Miss H. 



HINTS FOR THE SICK. 61 

Cough Mixture. 

One ounce horebound, one ounce hops, one ounce bone- 
set, one quarter pound gum arable. Steep herbs in one 
quart boiling- water several hours, then add gum arable, 
and sugar to taste ; boll until rather thick, strain and 
bottle and keep in a cool place, add a little liquor before 
bottling, so that it will not sour. Six or seven teaspoons- 
ful a day or more, if cough is troublesome. 

3Ii^s H. 

Hoarseness. 

Lemon juice, gum arable and rock candy, or loaf sugar, 
a tablespoonful of the solids, and juice of half a lemon. 
Take a little at a time. 

Excellent Tonic. 

Three ounces wild cherry bark (chips), one quart old 
Jamaica rum, two quarts cold water, three-quarters pound 
granulated sugar. Soak the bark in cold water forty-eight 
hours, then strain off till perfectly clear. Add one quart 
of best old rum, then the sugar, stir well and allow it to 
stand a few minutes. Then stir again, and pour into 
bottles; cork tightly. 

Miss Adams, 

Chalk Mixture. 

To be taken in cases of diarrhoea as a relief or helj), but 
not depended on entirely as a cure. Take two sticks of 
cinnamon and steep them, add a little sugar and strain. 
For a coffee cup full of cinnamon put about two tea- 
spoonsfnl of chalk. Take a teaspoonful several times a 
a day. 



ODDS AND ENDS, 



For Cleaning Brass. 

Make a tliin paste of plate powder, two tablespoonsful of 
vinegar, four tableepoonsfal of alcohol; rub on with a piece 
flannel; X3olish with chamois. 

Baking Custard. 

A satisfactory' way to cook custard is to put the pudding 
dish or cups containing the mixture in a pan of hot water, 
in a moderately hot oven. This will prevent the custard 
from getting watery. 

Tooth Powder. 

One fourth of a pound precipated chalk, one-fourth of a 
pound of pulvarized orris root, one ounce of j)ulverized 
sugar; mix all together, and flavor with wintergreen. 

To Freshen Black Lace. 

Put in a bowl or tumbler equal qaantities of water and 
alcohol, let the lace lay in it a minute, then squeeze it out 
well, and pin out smooth on a newspaper to dry, and you 
will And your lace equal to new. 

Mrs. Lathrop. 



64 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

Celery. 

Eoll celery in brown paper and then in cloth, put in dry 
j)lace, and it will keep a week. 

Remove Ink from Carpets. 

First take up as much as possible of the ink with a tea- 
spoon, then pour cold milk upon the spot, and take up as 
before, pouring on milk until at last it becomes only 
slightly tinged with black; then wash with cold water, and 
absorb with a cloth, without too much rubbing. 

To Polish Furniture. 

One cuj) of alcohol, one cup of turpentine, and two cups 
of sweet oil. 



A little soap put on the hinges or latch of a door will stop 
its creaking. 

If brooms were given a hot bath once a week they would 
last longer, and retain their shape until nearly worn 
out. 



A Poetical Appetizer. 



*' Always have lobster sauce with salmon, 
And put mint sauce your roasted lamb on. 

Veal cutlet dip in egg and bread crumbs, 
Fry till jou. see a brownish red come. 

In dressing salad mind this law; 

"With two hard yolks use one that's raw. 

Roast pork, sans apple sauce, x^ast doubt, 
Is Hamlet witli the Prince left out. 

Broil lightl}^ your beefsteak — to fry it 
Argues contempt of Christian diet. 

To roast spring chickens is to spoil 'em, 
Just split 'em down the back and broil 'em. 

It gives true epicures the vapors 
To see boiled mutton minus capers. 

The cook deserves a hearty cuffing 

Who serves roast fowl with tasteless stuffing. 

Nice oyster sauce gives zest to cod — 
A fish when fresh to feast a god. 

But we might rhyme for weeks this way. 
And still have lots of things to say." 

— Selected. 






3 

o 




OQ 



PRIDE OF THE WEST. 



Special attention is called to the celebrated brand of 

Bleaghgb ® Muslin, 

WHICH FOR 

Fineness and Durability is Unsurpassed. 



This cloth is manufactured with great care, partieuliarly for 
ZADIES' USE, in 36, 40. and 45-inch widths, and is guaranteed not to 
crack or turn yellow. Inquire for Has hrand and take no substitute. 

For sale by all leading retail dry goods dealers in the 
United States. 



Established in New York 1836. 



H. A. CASSEBEER, 



APOTHECARY, 



1176 NINTH AVENUE. ^ ^ 292 SIXTH AVENUE, 

Corner 72d St. *.* Bet. i8th & 19th Sts. 



Doctors Prescriptions and Family Receipts Carefully 
and Accurately Prepared. 



WILLIAM H. GRAY, 



ESTABLISHED 1850. 



20 & 22 WOOSTER ST, 



®©al©F 



^ 



pint Capriapi, 



^ 



Victorias, T Carts, Cabriolets, Stanhope 
Phaetons, Broughams, Spider Phae- 
tons, Wagonettes, Landaus, 
Two Wheelers. 

FOUR-IN-HAND TRAPS. 



P^ai^^Ii •:• W00D •:• VEHIOIiE^ 

In Every Conceivable Shape. 



The largest and most complete assortment in the City at exceed- 
ingly m,oderate prices. 



Mais F. J)I^ZZE5f¥I 

(©AIPBI^BI^ 

AND 

Confectionei'. 

Large and Magnifi- 
cent Banquet Hall for 
Receptions, Weddings 
and Sociables. Also 
smaller rooms for Committees, Re-unions, etc. 




Main Store, 49th St. and 6th Avenue. 

Telephone Call, 402-39th. 

-Rt.« n o-h «-^ • I "^^th St. & 9th Ave., Telephone, li59-39th 

I^raiacties . | ^^ ^^^^ ^.^^^j^ g^ .> 152 Harlem 



WEST END MARKET. 



Joseph Scliialei", 

|fl)il(2[delpl}i(2[ jfoulfrj ar)d. (^aiT)c. 



^S2 6]R^ND B0aiiEY;^RD, Bet. 73d and 74th Sts. 



SiluGF 5ing Spi(^e ^ilL 



* D. imnm ^haw, * 



PROPRIETOR, 



74 Warrgn Strggt, 

NEW YORK. 



irr)por{cr' 0:1)0. Ayia:r)u|acfurer' 



^T3jTf/n\T^\( 



STml 



AND 



BAKING POWDERS. 



m&mEmm m^MmmmT, 



CHAS. MAYER, 

Dealex" iia Clioice 

Beef Jeal, Mutton, Lamb, Pork, S:c., 

Poultry and Game in Season. 

Also Fish, Oysters and Clams Constantly on hand. 

1188 TENTH AVENUE, 

Southeast Corner 73d Street, NEW YORK. 



GEORGE H, TIEMEYER, ■ 

DEALER IN 

Staple & Fancy Groceries, 



IMPORTER OF 



WINES, LIQUORS & SEGARS, 

FANCY FRUITS AND VEQETA.BLES. 

1190 and 1192 Tentli Avenue, 

Corner 73d Street, NEW YORK. 



SAMUEL F. ADAMS, WM. CRITTENDEN ADAMS. 

Counselor at Law. Commissioner of Deeds. 



^DAMS Bf^OS., 

HREllL ESTATE BROKERS, N- 

432 KiFTH Avenue, 

NEW YORK CITY. 



Personal Attention given to the Management of Estates. 



5^^ y<^^v 



Mrs. DeNike would call especial attention to her Hair 
Tonic, which she has used successfully for over ten years. It 
is prepared in the most careful manner from herbs, contains no 
oil, and is warranted to remove dandruff, prevent the hair from 
falling out, and cause hair to grow on bald spots if they are not 
perfectly smooth. 

Refers to Mrs. Robert Russell Booth. 



FREDERICK YAG-TS, 



DEALER IN 



Faiicy - and - Staple - Groceries, 

NINTH AVENUE & 83d STREET. 

AvooD & ra.dik:er. 



We beg to call the attention of our numerous friends and patrons to 
the above change of name in the business carried on at this address. 
Trusting to receive a continuance of your esteemed orders. 
Eespectfully, 

WOOD h BAIIKIR, 

1402 NINTH AVENUE, Cor. 83d Street. 



J(2[ecrep s (L0r)jccii©r)er-y. 

• - • idrjeKaTSor) e/i^e. , cop. ^^fr) ©freei. 
J^raricr) : ^irjfl) eA^'eriuc, cop. 5^2^ ©freef. 

r^OI^iTON'S IGB (il^EAM, 

P^DE FROP PQJ^E Cl^E^p. 

Hoi'toia's Siaper IHrozeix Bricks of Ice Creain for 
Cliiarc^i I^airs, etc., a Specialty. 

D E POTS: 

1219 Ninth Avenue. 142 West 125tli Street. 

598 Sixth Avenue, and 305 Fourth Avenue. 



English Enamel. 

The Best in the Market. 



Ready for Use, in Self-Opening Tins. 

T50 Tints, Exquisite Colors, Surface like Por- 
celain. Can be Applied by Anyone. 

11 PRIZE MEDALS. 

INVENTED BY 

Thomas Griffiths, F,C,S, M.S.A,, 

Original Inventor of Enamel Paint, for Re- 
novating AND Decorating Anthing and 
Everything. 

Furniture, Metal Ware, Wicker Work, Fans, Water Cans. 
25 & 50 Cents, by the Gallon to Decorators, 

ETC., ETC. 
SEND FOR TINT CARDS. 

VITROS' BATH ENANIEL 

00 CENTS J^NTD #1. 



10 EAST 15TH STREET, 
NEW YORK. 



D. E. DEMAREST, 

Successor to MRS. W. MILLES. 

Dealer in Notions, Fancy Goods, 
I2E3 NINTH AVENUE, 

Second door from 74th St. 

Agent for the " Staten Island''' Cleanhig and Dyeing 
Establis/ime7it, a7id the " Troy'' Steayn Lanndry. 



T. C. CAMPBELL, 

329 WEST BOULEVARD, Cor. 76th St 

Dealer in 

BEY %L F^M€Y Q@©DS, 

Perfumery, Pocket Knives & Scissors, 

Home and Foreign Weekly and Monthly- 
Magazines. 



Agent for TROY LAUNDRY CO. 



. • . • H i Wesl list g)f^e ef. 

Collegiate, Junior and Primary 



I^ew yhy^rr)r)asiurr), yiilifepy BpiU. 



Cheste7^^ Donaldsoji, A.M., 

Head Master. 



OFTHE CITY OF NEW YORK. 



"^^;^ 






©FFie^E)ms 



PRESIDENT, 

W. De Groot. 

VICE-PRESIDENT, CASHIER, 

Charles L. Acker. Peter Snyder. 



9th Ave. and 72d St. 

3d Ave. & 63d Street. | 7th Ave. & i22d Street. 

CIiE^N^Ifig, DYEIN6, 

Merzoj^citzTzg cuxd Reftrvislxiji^g. 

Kine Krencln Ivaunclry Work:. 

REFINISHINQ. 

Laces and Lace Curtains a Specialty. 



: ^. 



^die^^^ 



C^MB^IDQE \ WWM. 



1404 Ninth Avenue, 

Bet. 83d & 84th Sts., NEW YORK. 



Choice Meats and Poultry . Vegetables, Fish and Oysters. 
Game in Season . 



Yl)orr)as k)irr)or)d. J. (sT, Jg)iir)0r)d, Jp. 

ESTABLISHED 1852. 



J> G. & T. DIIV IQ ND, 

ARCHITECTURAL 



!jS) « I.- — ^^ J ^ QJ 



IRON WORKS 



ici^^^S)' -- 



-4-^ 



209 & 211 W. 33d Street, 



NEW YORK, 



All kinds of Iron Work for Buildings, 

Telephone Call, 39th St„ 298. 



JACOB WINKLER'S, 

HAMILTON 

1386 J\rjjsrn.II ^VM, 
Bet. Sad and 83d Sts., New York. 



Orders received for Fish and Oysters. 



Telephone Call, 894 39th St. 



JOHN A. KELLY, 

Dakota Livery Stables, 

75th St., Boulevard & Tenth avenue, 
NEW YORK. 

Branch Office, 1463 Ninth Avenue. 

Coaches, Coupes, Landaus, Victorias and Light Wagons, Al- 
ways in Readiness. 



CHARLES T. WILLS, 
BUILDER, 

10 WEST 23D STREET. 



(!^oo^ for lQ)ir)r)er, Ifarfies ^ Jjur)cl)cor)S. 
No. 670 SIXTH AVENUE, 



New York. 
Refer to Mes. F. E. Lathkop. 



J. THODE, 

Furniture Recovered, Varnished, etc Carpets cleaned by 

steam, refitted and laid. Spring Hair Mattresses and 

Pillows made over. 

30r QRAND BOUIvEVARD, 

Between 74th and 75th Sts. New York:. 

Dealers in 

E i;ROCERlES, 

^eos, Wirjes, Uiauors ar)a (fiiqars, 

Hruiis etna VeereiaDlcs. 




^Sd yVestem. (^oixLevcu^d, 

Cor. 74th Street, NEW YORK. 

Branch of 1397 9th Ave., cor. 83d Street. 



ESTABLISHED, 1834. 



INCORPORATED, 1874. 



>if 



ttf 



NOTICE. 



inE ALLAN HAYCO/S 

OFFICE - 




306 - FOURTH - AVENUE, 



TO 



Works: 621 West ^Stli Street. 



James L. Libby. Edward W. Scott, Jr. Walter E. Scott. 

LIBBY & SCOTT BROS., 

Real Estate & Loans, 

EQUITABLE BUILDING, 



120 BROADWAY 

Nassau St. Entrance. 



NEW YORK 



JtlEJ^RY A PlAGGK 



Otten & Flagge, 

73cl street and gth Avenue, 

NEW YORK. 




Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



^«s;2 






sc- 



.* 






% 



« — 



^ 
% 









^«s;2 






H^' 



i^ 






% 



% — ' 



^ 
'^^ 



^■^^^■■■i'AUO*^ 






"^ 



^«S2 






.^ 



\ 



% — ' 



^4- 



^V;;v.AJ»Oi^ 






RIVERSIDE 



RECIPE BOOK. 



'* We may iivo without poetry, muHio and art; 
We may live without conscience and live without heart; 
We may hve without frienda, we may live without books; 
But civilized man cannot live without cooks." 

-OWEN MKREDITH. 



NKW YORK: 

1890. 






s<^ 



* 



• ^ 











Copyright, 1890. 

5if ' 



Thin Becipe Book has been compiled, and edited in 
the inierenl of Chriatian Work in connection with the 
Butgers Bivermde Presbyterian Church. 

Special attention is directed to the advertisements 

appearing in this volume, and il is hoped that the 

advertisers vnU receive the hearty support of all its 
readers. 



v^ 



y 



PRESS OF WM. R. JENKINS. 
851-853 SIXTH AVE 



V' 



"X 



4 



CONTENTS. 



SOUPS. 



Boup Making 1 

General Stock 1 

Beef 2 

Block for Clear SSoup 3 

Mutton 3 

Green Com 4 

Mock Turtle 4 

Black Bean 4 

Bean 6 



Tomato 5 

Pea 5 

Turkey 6 

Tomato 6 

Cream of Celery 6 

Okra 7 

Clear Boup or Coneonim^ 7 

Clam 7 

Green Pea 7 



FISH. 



Hints 9 

Boiled Codfisli 9 

Codfish Balls 10 

Picked Codfish 10 

Codfish Balls 10 

Warmed over Fish 11 



FlshChowder 11 

Oysters k la Poulette 11 

Clam Fritters 12 

Lobster Patties 12 

Lobster a la Newburg 12 

Btewed Clams 13 



MEATS. 



Hash 15 

Chicken Croquettes 15 

Mutton Btew 16 

A la Mode Beef 16 



Chopped Ham for Sandwiches 16 

Cream Chicken 16 

Coming Beef 17 

Spanish Beef 17 



VEGETABLES. 



Preparing Vegetables 19 

Delmonico Potatoes 20 

Com Fritters 20 

Egg Plant 20 

Vegetable Oysters . 20 

Saratoga Potatoes 21 



Baked Beets 21 

Fried Potatoes with Cream 

Sauce 21 

Green Com Caked 21 

Cooked Celery 21 

Potato Puff '^ 



ENTBiES AN1> SAIADS. 



Potato Salad 23 

Mayonnaise Dressing ^ 

Otieese Souffle 24 

Ctiocolate Souffld 24 

Lobster Farcie 24 

Par6e of Salmon 25 

Welsh Bare-bib 25 

Hominy Croquette's 25 



Ohioken Souffle 26 

A Nice Way to Cook Ciiicken. 26 

Broiled Sweetbreads 26 

^ad Dressing 27 

Oliicken Salad 27 

To Boast Birds 27 

Bread Tarts 28 

Sidney Smith's Salad Dressing 28 



SAUCES. 



Noodles for Soup 29 

Bread Dice for Soup 29 

Poached Eggs for Gonsomm6. 29 

Egg Balls for Soup 30 

Drawn Butter 30 



Celery Sauce 30 

Creamy Sauce 30 

Sauce Tartare 31 

Sauce for Plum or Fruit 
Pudding 31 



BREADS. 



To cut Warm Bread 33 

Tip Top Bolls 33 

CornBread 38 

Tea Bolls ^34 

Muffins ^34 

Puflfetts 84 

Biscuits 84 



Muffins, 



Pop Overs 36 

Puflls for Breakfast 86 

Tea Cakes 36 

Waffies 36 

Com Bread 35 

Oom Cake 36 

Graham Muffins 36 



34 Gems 86 



DESSEBTS. 



Weights and Measures 37 

Velvet Cream 37 

Lemon Cream % . 38 

Cream Pie 88 

Huckleberry Pudding 38 

Cold Cream Pudding 39 

Ambrosia 39 

Coffee Jelly 39 

Caramel Custard 39 



Wine Jelly 40 

Indian Pudding 40 

Pie Pastry 40 

Lemon and Baisin Pie 40 

Fig Pudding 41 

Lemon Pudding 41 

Oranee Baskets 41 

Baspoerry Joy 42 



CAKE. 



General Directions 

Delicate GaKe * 

Angel Cake 44 

Ooffee Cake 44 

Helen Cake 45 

OruUers 45 

Orange Gako 45 

Molasses Cake 45 



43 1 Sponge OaJ(e Mrs. H— 
44 ^ ^ . -- 



4^ 

OrKnge Cake Mrs. K— 46 

Pearl Cake 47 

Ginger Cake 47 

Jnmbles 47 

Fig Cake 47 

Sponge Cake Mrs. L— 48 

Bread Cake 48 



CANDIES. 

Without Cooking. 



French Creams 49 

French Vanilla Creams 49 

English Walnut Creams 50 

Cream Cherries 50 



Cream Dates 50 

Wintergreen Creams 50 

Peppermint Creams 50 

Maple Sugar Creams 51 



CANDIES. 

Cooked. 



Molasses Taffy 53 

Pea-nut Candy 68 

Chocolate Caramels 58 

Molasses Candy 54 

Everton Talfy 54 



Chocolate Creams 54 

Butter Scotch 55 

Pea-nut Candy 55 

Pop Com Balls.. 55 



HINTS FOB THE SICK 



Beef Tea 68 

Chicken Broth 58 

Mutton Broth 58 

Oatmeal Gruel 58 

Lemonade 58 

Flaxseed Tea 59 

Cure for a Felon 59 

To Check a Cold 59 

Eoumys Mrs. H— 59 



Koumys Miss H— 60 

For Catarrh 60 

Bheumatism or any Pain. ... 60 

Throat Gargle 60 

Tonic 60 

Cough Mixture 61 

Hoarseness 61 

Excellent Tonic 61 

Chalk Mixture 61 



ODDS AND ENDS. 



For Cleaning Brass 63 

Baking Custard 63 

Tooth Powder 63 

To Freshen Black Lace 63 



Celery. 



64 



Bemove Ink from Carpets. . . 64 

To Polish Furniture 64 

Poetical Appetizer 65 

Advertisements 67 



SOUPS. 

**A hasty plate of soup" 

Soup Making. 

It can be made from the merest scraps and trimmings 
of meat, from the beads, tails and feet of animals ; from 
tbe bones and skin of fish, from cereals and vegetables 
alone. Pot liquor in which meat has been boiled should 
always be saved and used for soup the next day, when by 
the removal of all fat, by careful skimming, and the addi- 
tion of a few vegetables or some dumplings, rice, or 
macaroni, it will make a palatable broth. Experiments 
made by French chemists prove that the delicacy and 
richness of soup may be increased by first soaking the 
meat in tepid water enough to cover it, and adding this 
to the second water in which the meat is put over the fire, 
just as it reaches the boiling point.* 

General Stock. 

Part I. Where there is a family of any size it is well to 
keep a clean pot or saucepan on the back of the stove to 
receive all clean scraps of meat, bones, and remains of 
poultry and game, which are found in every kitchen ; but 
•vegetables should not be put into it, as they are apt to 
sour. The proper proportions for soups are one pound of 
meat and bone to one and one-half quarts of cold water; the 
meat and bones to be well chopped and broken up, and 



2 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

put over the fire in cold water, being brought slowly to a 
boil, and carefully skimmed as often as scum rises, and 
being maintained at a steady boiling point from two to 
six hours, as time permits ; one hour before stock is done, 
add to it one carrot, and one turnip pared ; one onion, 
stuck with three cloves, and a bouquet of sweet herbs. 

Part TI. When the soup is to be boiled six hours, two 
quarts of cold water must be allowed to every pound of 
meat; this will be reduced to one quart in boiling ; two 
gills of soup are generally allowed for each person at 
table, when it is served as the first part of the dinner and 
meats are to follow it. Care should be taken that the 
stock-pot boils slowly and constantly, from one side, as 
rapid and irregular boiling clouds and darkens the stock 
as much as imperfect skimming. Stock should never be 
allowed to cool in the stock-pot, but should be strained 
into an earthen jar, and left standing to cool uncovered^ 
and all the fat removed, and saved to clarify for drippings; 
the stock is then ready to heat and use for soup or gravy. 
When stock has been darkened and clouded by careless 
skimming and fast boiling, it can be clarified by adding to 
it one egg and the shell, mixed first with a gill of cold 
water, then with a gill of boiling soup, and stirring it 
briskly into the soup until it boils ; then remove it to the 
back of the fire, where it will not boil, and let it stand 
until the white and shell have collected the small particles 
clouding the soup ; then strain it once or twice, until it 
looks clear. 

Beef Soup. 

Take a shank of beef with plenty of meat upon it, and 
boil five or six hours the day before using. The next day 



SOUPS, 3 

skim off the grease, put the jelly in the soup kettle, and 
one hour before serving, add turnips, carrots, onions, and 
cabbage chopped fine in quantity desired; a few tomatoes 
and a little celery improve it. Season with pepper and 
«alt. Drop in a few noodles. Three tablespoonsful of rice 
may be added with the vegetables. 

Margery Daw in the Kitchen, 

Stock for Clear Soup. 

Four pounds of the middle cut of a shin of beef, remove 
the marrow from the bone; cut the meat into small pieces, 
put the meat and bone into a soup pot, with five quarts of 
<5old water; put it on the hottest part of the fire, and allow 
it to boil up quickly, when it boils skim very carefully; 
throw in half a tablespoonful of salt, which brings the 
«cum to the top again, remove this, and put in a small piece 
of turnip and carrot, half a root of celery, half a teaspoon 
of whole cloves, one onion (which must soak in boiling 
water ten minutes) and pepper ; draw it to one side, and 
let it slowly simmer for five hours, strain through a seive 
before putting away; when cold, remove the fat on top of it. 

Take one quart of stock, put it in a saucepan and heat 

it, break into a bowl two eggs, one tablespoonful of cold 

water, a little salt and pepper ; when stock is hot, pour in 

the eggs and water ; and whisk it until it boils, put on the 

lid and allow it to simmer twenty minutes; pour it through 

a clean towel, and it is ready for use. 

Eclectic Cook Book, 

Mutton Soup. 

Boil a leg of mutton three hours, and take the water for 
the soup, season with pepper and salt. Add a small cup 



4 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

of barley or rice, as preferred, throw in a little chopped 
parsley, if liked, and boil about an hour. 

Margery Daw in the Kitchen . 

Green Corn Soup. 

Take one dozen ears of corn, scrape the cobs and boil 
them twenty minutes in one quart of water. Remove the 
cobs, put in the com, and boil fifteen minutes. Add two 
quarts of rich milk seasoned with salt, pepper and butter, 
and thicken with two tablespoonsful of flour. Boil ten 
minutes and turn into a tureen in which are the well- 
beaten yolks of three eggs. 

Margery Daw in the Kitchen. 

Mock Turtle Soup. 

One quart of black beans and five pounds of lean beef. 
Put into the soup kettle in the morning in cold water suf- 
ficient for the quantity of soup desired, and cook slowly 
all day. Strain through a seive. Add salt, pepper, and 
plenty of cloves, to taste. Let it stand all night. When 
desired to serve, cut two lemons into thin slices, put them 
into the tureen and pour over them the soup. 

Margery Daw in the Kitchen, 

Black Bean Soup. 

One quart of black beans, one pound of lean beef, one 
half pound salt pork, three quarts of water. Soak the 
beans all night, and in the morning pour off the water and 
put them in the soup kettle, with three quarts of cold 
water, in which are the meat and pork. Boil three or four 
hours, adding water as it boils away. Slice Pomc lemon 
into the tureen before serving, also some bread cut into 



SOUPS. 5 

small pieces, and fried in butter. Strain through a colander 

into the tureen. 

Margery Daw in the Kitchen. 

Bean Soup. 

Soak one quart of beans over night in cold water, in the 
morning pour off the water, and put them in a kettle with 
four quarts of water, boil until soft enough to pass through 
the colander. Season with pepper and salt, and a piece of 
butter the size of an egg, or boil with the beans a piece of' 
salt pork. Throw pieces of bread cut into small pieces and 
fried in butter into the tureen, and strain the soup upon 
them; if the soup is too thick, add boiling water. 

Margery Daw in the Kitchen, 

Tomato Soup. 

One and one-half pounds of lean beef in one gallon of 

water boiled down to three pints, add one quart of tomatoes, 

one cup of sweet milk, two tablepoonfuls of flour rubbed 

into a piece of butter the size of an egg. Then boil one. 

hour, but less will do. Season with pepper and salt, and. 

strain through a colander. 

Margery Daw in the Kitchen, 

Pea Soup. 

One quart of split peas soaked overnight in two quarts of 
water. In the morning pour off the water and put the peas 
in the soup kettle with four quarts of water. Let them 
boil until cooked enough to pass through the colander; 
about two hours. As soon as it begins to boil, cut up one 
large onion and fry brown in a spiderwithapiece of butter 
the size of a large egg, and put into the kettle with the 



6 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

soup. Strain, and season with salt and pepper before 
serving. As the water boils away add more. A couple of 
slices of salt pork or a little beef stock is a great improve- 
ment. 

Margery Law in the Kitchen, 

Turkey Soup. 

Place the frame of the cold turkey, with the remnant* 
6f dressing and gravy in a pot, and cover with cold water, 
simmer gently three hours, let it stand until the next day. 
Remove the fat, and skim off the bits and bones. Put the 
soup on to heat until it boils; then thicken with flour 
slightly wet with water, and season to taste. 

Margery Daw in the Kitchen, 

Tomato Soup. 

One pound of meat, two quarts of water, boil away to 
fhree pints^ then add a tea cup of milk, a lump of butter 
Mze of an egg rubbed in two tablespoons of sifted flotrr, 
dnd one quart of stewed tomatoes, salt, and boil an hour 
after everything is in. 

Oream of Oelery Soup. 

Take the white part of two large heads of celery, either 
grate it or chop it very fine, boil in a quart of milk, with 
one cup of rice, allow the rice and celery to stew slowly, 
until they can be rubbed through a coarse sieve, adding 
more milk if it gets too thick, then add to it an equal quan- 
tity of strong veal or chicken stock, white pepper and salt 

to taste. 

IScledtic Cook Hook. 



80UP8. 7 

Okra Soup. 

To one quart of stock add two chopped onioDS, four 

tomatoes and eight okra sliced thin, a small carrot grated; 

pepper and salt to taste. To make a quart of soup allow 

three pints of stock ; vegetables require boiling an hour, 

sometimes even longer. 

Mrs. F. E. Lathrop. 

Clear Soup or Consommd. 

(Two quarts for eight persons). This is made by strain- 
ing two quarts of stock, which has been cooled and freed 
from fat through a piece of flannel or a napkin, until it is 
bright and clear; if this does not entirely clear it, use an 
egg, as directed for clarifying soup, then season it to taste 
with salt, using at first a teaspoonful, and a very little 
fine white pepper, say a quarter of a saltspoonful, and 
color it to a bright straw color with caramel, of which a 
scant teaspoonful will be abont the proper quantity. 

Clam Soup. 

Wash fifty clams, put them in a pot and cover them with 
water, let them boil, and as soon as the shells open take 
them out with a skimmer. 

Chop the clams, strain the water they were boiled in, 
and return to the kettle, add the chopped clams, one quart 
of milk, pepper and salt (not much), one-fourth pound of 
butter, and thicken with rolled cracker. 

Green Pea Soup. 

One pint of stock, one can of peas, a piece of onion, size 
of a small nutmeg. Boil together half an hour, strain, and 



8 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

put in soup-pot again, with one pint of milk. Let it come 

to a boil ; season with salt and pepper, and stir in one 

tablespoonful of butter. Add one teaspoonful of parsley, 

chopped fine. 

Mrs. Walton, 



FISH. 



'* Now, good digestion waits on appetite, health on both, and a waiter 
on all three.** 



Hints. 

Nearly all kinds of fish lose their flavor soon after they 
are taken from the water. 

Fish are fresh when the eyes are clear, the fins stiff, the 
gills red and hard to open. 

Before broiling fish, rub the gridiron with fat to keep it 
from sticking. Place the inside of the fish down on the 
gridiron, and nearly cook before turning ; butter the skin 
before turning towards the fire. 

Salt fish should be soaked in cold water over night before 
cooking. 

Boiled Codfish. 

Lay the fish in cold water, slightly salted, for half an 
hour before it is time to cook it, wipe dry and put in a fish 
kettle with water enough to cover it, in which has been 
dissolved a little salt. Let it boil quite briskly. A piece 
of cod weighing three pounds will be cooked in half an 
hour from the time the water begins to boil. If cooked 
in a cloth it will require twice as long to boil. 

Have ready a sauce prepared thus : To one gill of boiling 
water add as much milk, and when it is scalding hot stir 
in two tablespoonsful of butter, a little at a time, that it 



10 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

may melt without oiling, a tablespoonful of flour wet with 
<$old water, and as this thickens, two beaten eggs. Season 
with salt and chopped parsley, and after one good boil take 
from the fire and add a dozen capers. Put the fish into a 
hot dish and pour sauce over it. 

Codfish Balls. 

One coffee-cup of codfish, very finely shreded, eight 
good sized potatoes. Pour boiling water on both together, 
boil twenty-five minutes. Mash with fork, then add one 
tablespoonful of butter, one egg. Form into balls, and 
drop into boiling fat for one minute. 

Picked up Codfish. 

Put fish on the stove in cold water; keep warm, but do 
not boil until the fish is softened; remove bones and skin, 
shred finely, and put in a saucepan, with rich milk in pro- 
portion of one pint of milk to one cup of fish; let it come 
to a boil and thicken with a teaspoonful of flour. 

Just before taking from the stove, stir in butter the size 

of an eggf and one egg well beaten. Season with pepper 

and garnish with hard boiled eggs. 

The Ideal Cook Book. 

Codfish Balls. 

One pound of codfish picked fine, two pints raw potatoes 

cut in small pieces. Boil together in a little water. When 

done soft, drain and mash ; add three eggs, half a cup of 

butter, and pepper to taste. Make into balls, and fry in 

hot lard. 

The Ideal Cook Book. 



F18H. 11 

Warming over Fish. 

Pick it up finely, mix with drawn butter, line the bottom 
and sides of a pudding dish with mashed potatoes, so that 
it stands up above the edge, pour the fish into the hollow, 
brown all in the oven, and garnish with hard boiled eggs. 

Eclectic Cook Booh 

Fish Chowder. 

Take four slices of salt pork and fry brown in the bottom 
of the pot, and pour off the grease, chop the pork fine. 
Put in the bottom of the pot a layer of haddock or fresh 
cod, any other firm fish will do, cut in thin slices; next a 
layer of crackers with some of the chopped pork and thin 
slices of onion, then fish, and so on until the whole is used. 
Season with pepper and salt ; pour over hot water enough 
to cover well, and boil one hour. Serve hot as soup. 

Oysters & la Foulette. 

Put a solid quart of oysters on the stove to boil in their 
own liquor. As soon as they begin to boil, skim carefully, 
and turn into a strainer, and when they have been well 
drained set them aside. Put half a pint of oyster liquor 
into a saucepan, and when it begins to boil, stir into it one 
heaping teaspoonful of flour mixed with three tablespoons- 
ful of cold water. Boil gently five minutes longer. Put 
a pint of cream into a double boiler, and when it begins to 
boil, add the thickened oyster liquor. Season with salt and 
pepper, a slight grating of nutmeg, and a grain of cayenne. 
Have at hand the yolks of four eggs, well beaten, and add 
to them half a cupful of cold cream. 'Now add to the cook- 
ing mixture the oysters, a tablespoonful of butter, and 



12 Rl VERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

finally the egg mixture. Cook for three minutes, stirring 

all the time ; then remove from the fire immediately, and 

serve . 

Miss Parha, 

Clam Fritters. 

Two dozen clams chopped. Stir into them three well 

beaten eggs and three tablespoonsful of their own liquor; 

add flour enough to make a thin batter; fry in a spider in 

hot butter and lard. When brown on one side, turn the 

other side. 

Margery Daw in the Kitchen, 

Lobster d la Newburg. 

Three quarters of a pound of lobster, for seven or eight 
people, one claret glass of sherry wine, one cup of cream, 
the yolk of one egg. Put butter in pan, then the lobster, 
sherry, pepper and salt. Let it come to a boil. Take the 
cream with the egg, and let it come to a boil ; then put 
lobster in a dish and pour cream over it. 

Mrs, W, H, Beadleston, 

Lobster Patties. 

One pint of lobster cut into d\ce, half a pint of white 
sauce, a speck of cayenne, one eighth of a teaspoonful of 
mustard; heat all together, fill the shell and serve. 

Miss Parloa, 

Salmon or any kind of fish may be used in the same 
way. 



F18H. 13 

Stewed Clams. 

Take the clams from the shells, as many as you wish, 
put them into a stew pan with their own liquor, butter and 
pepper. Let them stew slowly. Butter some slices of 
toast, and pour them over. Serve in a deep dish. 



MEATS. 



** Hunger is the he^t seasoning for mecUa/* 

OlOEBO. 



Hash. 

Melt a piece of butter (the size of an egg) in a pan, stir 
in one teaspoonful of dour until smooth, add one cupful of 
milk, stir slowly until it boils, then add one and one-half 
cupful of meat and one cupful of potatoes ; let the hash 
boil five or ten minutes, then put it in the dish and brown 
in the oven. 

Ohloken Croquettes. 

Two large cups of chicken chopped very fine, take 
a piece of butter the size of an egg^ and one large spoon 
of flour and melt them together, then add one large cup of 
the water the chicken was boiled in, and one half teacup of 
milk ; cook this to consistency of drawn butter, then adcl, 
one coffee cup of bread crumbs, season with salt and 
pepper, then add the chicken, and cook slowly for a few 
minutes. When done, spread on a dish to cool, then make 
into form, dip them in beaten egg, then roll them in 
crackers crumbs and fry in boiling lard ; this rule makes 
twelve. Veal can be substituted for chicken. 

Mrs. T. F. Sharpe. 



16 RIVERSIDE RECJPE BOOK. 

Mutton Stew. 

Take BliceB of cold boiled mutton, put in the stew pan 

one teaBpoonful mustard, two teaspoonsful of currant jelly, 

a piece of butter, size of a walnut, nearly a teacup of 

catsup, cook ten minutes, and then put in the meat, and 

cook until it is thoroughly hot. 

Mrs. T. F. Sharpe. 

A la Mode Beef. 

Take a round of beef, cut five or six gashes in it, and 
put in your dressing which is seasoned with cloves, nut- 
meg, pepper, salt and butter. Then sew up the gashes 
tie it up in a cloth and boil it two hours, then put it in the 
oven and let it brown over. Boil the water in the pot 

down to a thick gravy. 

Mrs. F, E, Lathrop. 

Chopped Ham for Sandwiches. 

Two pounds of boiled ham chopped fine, one pound of 
butter, one tablespoon of mustard, two tablespoon of Wor- 
cestershire sauce, one teacup of cream. Beat all the in- 
gredients together, until they become a smooth paste. 
Then spread between bread without otherwise putting 
butter on, that being prepared with the ham is sufficient. 

Mrs. S. S. Stewart, 

Cream Chicken. 

Take young tender chickens and cut them up as for 
fricasse, wash them well and dry in a towel, salt the pieces, 
and dip each one in fiour. 

Put nice, clean lard in the frying pan, and when hot lay 
in the chicken and fry slowly, turning the pieces over 



MEATS. 17 

often, frying them brown. It generally takes an hour to 
get them well done, then take the chicken up, piece by 
piece, and put on the platter, then strain the fat into a clean 
frying pan, having it free from all specks, and add a tea cup 
of milk and a piece of butter, mix a tablespoonful of flour in 
a little milk, very smooth, and stir in when it boils. This 
gravy may be poured over the chicken, or put in a gravy 
dish, as you prefer, it must be very white, not thick; 
chopped parsley may be added to the gravy. 

Mrs B, B. Booth. 

Coming Beef. 

Cut and pack the beef in barrel. For one hundred 
pounds take six pounds of salt, two ounces of saltpetre, 
one cup of molasses (or one-half pound of sugar), put them 
in sufficient water to cover the beef. Boil the brine, and 
skim until clear, and pour over the beef while scalding 
hot. After one week it will be ready for use. 

Spanish Beef. 

Steam three or four pounds of round beef in water (cover 
tight) for three hours, one hour before done put in stewed 
or canned tomatoes, also one onion. Thicken after taking 
off. Very nice cold. 

Mrs. J, E. Duryee^ 



VEGETABLES. 



*• Cheerful looks make every dish afeaat.^^ — Massinger. 

Preparing Vegetables. 

Always have them as fresh as possible ; summer 
vegetables should be cooked ou the same day they are 
gathered. 

Look them over, and wash well, cutting out all decayed 
or unripe parts. 

Lay them, when peeled, in cold water for some time be- 
fore using. 

Always let the water boil before putting them in, and 
continue to boil until done. 

Turnips. — Should be peeled, and boil from forty minutes 
to an hour. 

Beets. — Boil from one to two hours, then put in cold 
water and remove the skin. 

Parsnips. — Boil twenty to thirty minutes. 

Spinach. — Boil twenty minutes, then rub through a 
colander. 

Onions. — Boil in one, two or three waters ; add a little 
milk the last time. 

String Beans. — Boil one hour. 

Lima Beans. — Boil from half an hour to one hour. 



20 Rl VER81DE RECIPE BOOK. 

Gbeen Cobn. — Boil thirty minutes. 

Green Peab. — Should be boiled ia as little water as 
possible; boil twenty minutes. 

A.SPABAQUS. — Same as peas; serve on toast. 

Cabbage. — Should be boiled from one-half hour to one 
hour in plenty of water; salt while boiling. 

Eclectic Cook Book, 

Delmonico Potatoes. 

Fill a pudding dish with stewed potatoes, grate some 
cheese over the top, and set it in the oven to brown 
over. 

Corn Fritters. 

One dozen ears of corn grated, one tablespoonf ul melted 
butter, one tablespoonful sweet milk, one-half teacupful 
flour, two eggs, little salt; fry. 

Egg Plant. 

Slice thin ; sprinkle each slice with salt, pack together 
again, and let remain one hour; drain the water off, dip in 
'^^^i ^^^^ in rolled cracker, and fry in hot butter or lard. 

Vegetable Oysters. 

Wash and scrape them well, cut into small round pieces, 
boil them an hour until tender, in sufficient water to cover 
them thoroughly. Pour off the* whole, or a part of the 
water, as desired, add cream or milk. Season well with 
butter, pepper and salt, and if desired, thicken with flour, 
-well mixed with cold water. 

Margery Daw in the KUchen. 



VEOETABLES. 21 

Saratoga Potatoes. 

Slice raw potatoes very thin, and let them stand several 
hours in ice virater. Then dry them in a napkin, and fry in 
hot lard, and salt them. 

Baked Beets. 

Use beets uniform in size, wash and prepare the same as 

potatoes for baking; bake four hours, then peel and cut up 

as if boiled, and season to taste. 

Mm, J. J, Haljnn, 

Fried Potatoes with Oream Sauce. 

Cut raw potatoes into balls or triangles, fry in hot lard, 

and pour over them cream, which has been heated, and 

slightly thickened if necessary. Season the cream with a 

little salt and white pepper. 

JCclecttc Cook hook. 

Oreen Com Cakes. 

Six ears of corn grated, the yolks of two eggs, a little 
salt, three rolled crackers. Ghrease the griddle, drop from 
the spoon, and bake twenty minutes. 

Margery Daw in the Kifchen. 

Cooked Celery. 

Cut the celery into pieces half an inch long, throw them 

into boiling water with a little salt, and boil three-quarters 

of an hour ; drain off the water and pour on cream if you 

have it, if not, milk enough to cover it. Season with butter, 

pepper, and salt to taste. It is not necessary to use the 

choicest pieces of celery. 

Margery Daw in the Kikhen, 



22 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

Potato PuflF. 

Boil the potatoes in salted water, drain oflf the water, 
and dry them a few minutes. Mash them perfectly smooth. 
To a pint of mashed potato put two tablespoonsful of 
butter, and beat with a large fork, until light and creamy; 
add the yolks of two eggs, a small cup of rich milk, and 
lastly the whites of two eggs beaten to a froth. Beat each 
ingredient in before adding the nexfc. Add more salt if 
needed ; put in a buttered baking dish, bake in a quick 
oven until nicely browned. The more thoroughly it is 
beaten the better. The same potato is very nice shaped in 
cones and browned in the oven. 

Margery Daw in the Kitchen, 



ENTREES AND SALADS. 



** It is the bounty of nature that we live ; hut of philosophy, thai we eat 
well.^* Seneca, 

"The Spanish proverb says, that, *to make a perfect salad 
there should be a spendthrift for the oil, a miser for the vinegar, a 
wise man for the salt and mustard, and a madcap to mix them.' " 



Potato Salad. 

Boil eight medium size potatoes with skins on, when cold, 
peel and slice them thick. Put on a dressing of salt, pepper, 
oil and vinegar, and a very little onion. 

if?'s. E. R. Booth, 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Yolks of two eggs, one pint of olive oil, one teaspoonful 
of salt, one teaspoonful of mustard, a pinch of Cayenne 
pepper. Put yolks and oil in a cool place several hours 
before using, beat the yolks in a bowl, after beating cons- 
tantly for five minutes, add salt, mustard and Cayenne 
pepper, beat thoroughly, then while gently beating, add 
oil, drop by drop, then in a tiny stream until it begins to 
thicken, then add the juice of lemon, to thin a little, then 
the oil until it is consumed. Set on ice till ready for use. 

Always use a silver fork. 

Margery Daw in the Kitchen. 



34 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

Cheese SoufBle. 

Take a cup of grated cheese, one tablespoouful corn 

starch, one tablespoonful of butter, one cup of milk, four 

eggs. Put on the milk to boil. When it boils add the 

corn starch and butter, boil for a few minutes. Beat the 

yolks of the eggs and pour on the hot mixture. Let it 

cool and when cold beat the whites and add with the grated 

cheese. Bake half an hour in a moderate oven. Swiss 

cheese is best. 

Mrs. Wm. T. Booth. 



Chocolate Souffle. 

One quarter pound grated vanilla chocolate, one quarter 

pound almonds blanched and pounded, six ounces sifted 

sugar, and yolks of eight eggs. Stir this together for a half 

hour, whisk whites to snow, and stir gently with the rest. 

Butter mould well, strew it with bread crumbs, put in all 

and bake one hour. 

Mrs. J, J. Halpin. 

Lobster Farcie. 

Two medium-sized lobsters, one half pint of bread 
crumbs, one pint cream, one tablespoonful of butter, one 
and a half tablespoonsful of flour, one half teaspoonf ul of 
dry mustard, a dash of red pepper, and salt to taste. Mix 
these ingredients with a portion of the cream, then add 
all to the scalding cream and boil one minute. Allow it to 
cool, then put in small shaped chop dishes or tins, adding 
bread crumbs and a small lump of butter to each, also a 
lobster claw pushed in the end, and brown in the oven. 



ENTREES AND SALADS. 25 

Purde of Salmon. 

Open a small can of salmon and remove all bone, skin, 
oil, &c. Mash fine. Put over, in a double boiler, one 
quart of milk, one teaspoonful of salt, one salt spoon 
ground mace, one pinch of red pepper ; add one spoonful 
of butter and one heaping tablespoonful of corn starch dis- 
solved in a cup of cold water ; pour this slowly into boiling 
milk till it thickens. When smooth and thick, put in salmon. 
Let cook together five minutes and rub through a fine 
sieve. Put back and bring to a boil, and eat with crisp 
crackers (which are Boston crackers, split, buttered, and 
browned in quick oven). 



Welsh Bare-bit. * 

One pound of cheese cut up in small pieces (fresh 

country cheese is the best). Put a piece of butter the size 

of a small egg in a sauce pan, then add the cheese, stir 

well till nearly melted, then add small teacup of ale, red 

pepper, salt and mustard to taste. The Bare-bit must be 

served very hot on buttered toast. This quantity of cheese 

makes four portions. 

Mrs. D. Laurence Shaw. 



Hominy Croquettes. 

A cup of fresh boiled hominy, a tablespoonful of melted 
butter, a teaspoonful of sugar, two tablespoonsful of milk, 
and a well beaten egg. Add enough flour to make into 
balls, roll in cracker crumbs and fry in hot lard. 

8t. Andrews M. E. Church Book, 



26 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

chicken Souffle, 

For twelve people, the breast of three large chickens is 
required. Mix one quarter pouud of butter with one cup 
of flour in a sauce pan on the lire, add a pint of milk and 
beat it up to a smooth sauce. Chop your chicken breast 
very fine (after boiling) when cold, then mix the sauce 
thoroughly through it. Add yolks of two eggs, then 
squeeze it through a sieve. 

Beat one pint of cream and whites of two eggs and then 

mix everything thoroughly together, add salt and juice of 

the truffles to taste, grease your form, which is better to 

have a hole in the middle, and put some of the truffles in 

the bottom, then put mixture in the form, set the mould in 

a pan of water in a moderate oven with a greased paper on 

top. Bake from a half to three quarters of an hour. It 

will rise and when stiff is done. 

Mrs. Eva Peterson. 

A Nice Way to Cook Chicken. 

Cut the chicken up, put into a pan and cover with water; 
let it stew as usual. When done, make a thickening of 
cream and flour; add butter, pej^per and salt ; have ready 
nice slices of toast cut thick, or shortcake baked, and cut 
in squares; lay on the dish and pour the chicken and gravy 
over them while hot. 

Broiled Sweetbreads. 

Parboil, split, rub well with butter, and broil on a 
greased gridiron ; turn frequently and dip in hot melted 
butter, to prevent them from getting too dry . Serve with 
peas. St. Andrew.^ M, E. Church Book. 



ENTREES AND SALADS. 27 

Salad Dressing. 

Beat the yolks of three eggs with one tablespoonful of 
sugar, add one half teaspoonful of mustard, one table- 
spoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of salt, one tumbler 
of vinegar, set the ingredients in a basin on the range, 
stirring constantly till it thickens. Add a tablespoonful 

of sweet cream if you have it. 

Margery Daw in the Kitchen. 

Chicken Salad. 

Take five chickens, boil until verv tender leavin<^ them 
in the liquor to cool. Take them out and cut in small 
pieces. To one part of chicken take two of celery, but less 
will do. Cut the celery lengthwise, slice off thin and put 
in salted ice water until ready to mix. 

Drefiiiinf/. — The yolks of eight or ten raw eggs, one large 
bottle of salad oil, thre^e or four teas])0()nsful of mustard, 
three teaspoonsful pep])er, six teasi)oonsful of sugar, one-half 
cup of vinegar. Beat the yolks until v(*ry smooth, then 
add the oil a few drops at a time, beating all the while. 
When the oil is half beaten in add the spiqes, the last half 
of the oil may be added faster. Just before serving mix 
the chicken, the celer}' and nearly allthe dressing, reserve 
a little to pour over the toj). Ornament with olives, 
radishes, &c. This is sufficient for forty ])ersons. 

Margery Daiv in the Kitchen, 

To Roast Birds. 

Pluck and draw them, rub a little butter over them, 
tie a strip of bacon over the breast, and i)lace in a brisk 
oven for a half hour. Serve with toast and jelly. 



28 Rl VERS IDE RECIPE BOOK. 

Bread Tarts. 

Six tablespooDsful of bread crumbs, six tablespoonsful of 

sugar, six eggs, one wine glass of claret, one pony of 

brandy, one quarter pound chopped almonds. Chopped 

citron and lemon rind, two bars of chocolate. Soak bread 

crumbs in claret and mix all together thoroughly, adding 

whites of eggs last, well beaten. Serve with or without 

sauce. 

Mrs. J. J. Hatpin, 

Sidney Smith's Receipt for Salad Dreasing. 

'* Two boiled potatoes, strained through a kitchen sieve. 

Softness and smoothness to the salad gives ; 

Of mordant mustard take a single spoon, 

Distrust the condiment that bites too soon ; 

Yet deem it not. Thou man of taste, a fault, 

To add a double quantity of salt ; 

Four times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown, 

And twice with vinegar procured from town; 

True taste requires it, and your poet begs 

The pounded yellow of two well boiled eggs. 

Let onions' atone lurk within bowl, 

And, scarce suspected, animate the whole ; 

And lastly, in the flavored compound toss 

A magic spoonful of anchovy sauce. 

Oh, great and glorious 1 oh, herbaceous meat ! 

I would tempt the dying anchorite to eat. 

Back to the world he'd turn his weary soul, 

And plunge his finger in the salad bowl.'' 



SAUCES. 



** Slight flavoring pleaaee much oftener than mtich flavoring. "^ 

Noodles for Soup. 

Take one egg^ two tablespoonful of flour, a small tea- 
spoonful of baking powder, a little salt. Beat the egg 
light, stir the floor with the baking powder and salt, add 
the egg . Ten minutes before serving the soup, drop this 
batter from the spoon into it. 

Bread Dice for Soup. 

Take slices of stale bread cut in small squares ; throw 
into the soup tureen before serving the soup. Crackers 
crisped in the oven are nice to serve with oyster soup. 

Poached Eggs for Consomme. 

Break the eggs, which should be very fresh, into a deep 
sauce-pan half full of boiling water, seasoned with a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and half a gill of vinegar, cover the sauce- 
pan, and set it on the back part of the fire until the whites 
of the eggs are firm, then lift them separately on a skim- 
mer, carefully trim off the rough edges, making each egg 
a regular oval shape, and slip them off the skimmer into a 
bowl of hot, but not boiling water, where they must stand 
for ten minutes before serving. 



30 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

Egg Balls for Soup. 

Rub the yolks of three or four hard boiled eggs to a 
smooth paste, with a very little melted butter. To this add 
two raw ones, beaten light, and enough flour to hold the 
paste together. Make into balls with floured hands, and 
set in a cold place until just before your soup comes oflf, 
when drop in carefully, and boil one minute. 

Drawn Butter. 

Stir two teaapoonsful of flour into a heaping tablespoon- 
ful of butter ; stir into a cup of boiling milk, add salt to 
taste and boil one minute. 

Celery Sauce. 

Cut up white part of celery, boil well in a very little 

water, when soft add cream, salt, mace, pepper, flour and 

butter, mixed together in small quantities. 

Miss H, 

Creamy Sauce. 

Half a cupful of butter, one cupful of powdered sugar, 
quarter cupful of cream or milk, four tablespoonsful of 
wine, or one teaspoonsful of lemon or vanilla extract, if 
lemon or vanilla is used, add four tablespoonsful of cream. 
Beat the butter to a cream, add sugar gradually, beating 
all the while. When light and creamy add the wine, and 
then the cream, a little at a time. When all is beaten 
smooth, place the basin in a bowl of hot water, and stir 
until the sauce is smooth and creamy. It will take but a 
few minutes. 



SA UCKS. :n 

Sauce Tartare. 

Two yolks of raw yolks, one half cupful of oil, tbree 
tablespoousful of vinegar, one of mustard, one teaspoonful 
of sugar, one of salt, one of onion juice, one tablespoonful 
(each) of chopped capers and chopped cucumber pickles and 
a little pepper. Make the same as niayonnaise dressing, 
adding the chopped ingredients last. 

Sauce for Plum or Fruit Pudding. 

Grate a quarter of a small nutmeg, one cup of sugar, one 
half cup of butter, one egg (beaten separately), one table- 
spoon of flour, one third cup of brandy or wine, beat sugar 
and butter to a cream, add yolk of egg mixed with the 
flour, then the brandy or wine, and last the white of egg 
and nutmeg. Mj'h. F. Kelloyg. 



BREADS. 



• ' Dinner may he pleananty 
So may social lea. 
But yetj me thinks the breakfast 
Is best of all the, three,*' 



In making bread during cold weather, the flour should 
be thoroughly warmed before [mixing. Care should be 
taken to have the yeast fresh, and to keep the dough from 
getting chilled while rising. 

To Cut Warm Bread. 

Heat a thin-bladed knife on the stove or in boiling 
water. 

Tip Top Rolls. 

Two heaping cups of flour, one tablespoonful of sugar, 
one egg, one cup of milk, one tablespoonful of butter, 
two teaspoonsful of baking powder; bake in roll pan. 

Mrs. T. F. Sharpe. 

Corn Bread. 

One cup of corn meal, one cup of flour, two eggs, two 

tablespoonsful of melted butter, half a pint of sweet milk, 

two and a-half teaspoonsful of baking powder, a pinch of 

salt. 

Mm, T, F. Hliaiye, 



34 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

Tea Soils. 

Two quarts of flour, one pint of milk, one tablespoonful 
of butter. Scald milk and cool, two dessertspoonsful of 
sugar, one cup of yeast. 

Put all of these in flour, but not mix until morning, then 
knead and put away to use. 

Make into rolls and let rise to bake. 

Muffins. 

One quart of flour with three teaspoonsful baking 

powder sifted inio it, three eggs, yolks and whites beaten 

separately, one tablespoonful melted butter, and milk 

enough for a stiff batter. 

Mrs. R. B. Booth. 

PuflFett. 

One pint milk, three pints flour, three teaspoonsful 
baking powder, three eggs, one tea cup sugar, not quite 
a cup of butter, a little salt. Bake thirty minutes. 

Mrs. F: E. Lathrop. 

Biscuits. 

One quart flour, three teaspoons baking powder, piece 

of butter the size of an egg^ mix with water, or half milk; 
roll and cut. 

Mrs. F. E. Lathrop. 

Muffins. 

One quart of milk, three eggs, tablespoonful of butter. 
Make batter with flour thicker than griddle cakes, two 
teaspoonsful cream of tartar and one of soda. 

Mrs. F. E, Lathrop. 



BREADS. 36 

Pop Overs. 

Two eggs, two cups milk, two cups flour, piece of butter 
size of a walnut. Bake in pop-over tins." 

Mrs. F. E. Lathrop. 

Puffs for Breakfast. 

One pint of milk, one pint of flour, two eggs, a piece of 
butter the size of a egg, a pinch of salt. Place the flour in 
a basin, make a hollow in the centre, put in the lump of 
butter, the eggs and the salt Work butter and eggs well 
together, and add the milk gradually, bringing all to a 
smooth batter. Bake in patty pans, from one quarter to 
half an hour, according to the heat of the oven . 

Tea Cakes. 

One pint of milk, three eggs, one tablespoon of butter, 
four large tablespoons of flour, half a teaspoonful of baking 
powder; bake in jelly cake tins in a quick oven, butter 
them while hot, and place one above the other. 

WafELes. 

One quart of sour cream (or milk, and a piece of butter 
size of an egg) one teaspoonful saluratus, three eggs; 
make as thick as pancakes, and bake when waffle iron is 
hot, and well greased. 

Com Bread. 

One pint milk, two eggs, one and one half cups flour, 
two large tablespoonsful melted lard, one teaspoonful of 
soda, two of cream tartar, salt, and a very little sugar. 

Miss Br(nmi. 



36 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

Corn Cake. 

One cup of yellow Indian meal, one cup of flour, one 

egg well beaten separately, one cup of sweet milk, one 

even teaspoonf ul of soda, two even teaspoonsful of cream 

of tartar, a little salt. You can use rye in place of indian 

for a change. 

Mrs. R. R. Booth. 

Graham MufSLns. 

Two cups of graham flour, one half cup of sugar, one 
cup of milk, one egg^ one tablespoonful of butter, two 
teaspoonsful of Koyal Baking Powder, a little salt. 

St. Andrews M. E. Church Book. 

Gems. 

One cup of flour, one cup of milk, one egg and a little 
salt. Bake in gem tins about twenty minutes, and serve 
hot. 



DESSERTS. 



(( 



Ti'iflt'H^ IkjUIuh air/' 



Weights and Measures. 

One cup, riiodiutii Hizrr, IioMh a half piiif. 

Two ciJpH, iiiediuiii ni/i*, of HJftod flour \\<'.\i^]ih half a 
pouml. 

Oiui pint of Hiftf;(1 flour \v(;i^liK half a )>oun(l. 

Oiirj pint of Hu^ar wfii^lm ono pound. 

Two cupH of ^ranuhttrjd HU^^ar, oih? pound. 

Two tabhjHpooriH of lirpiid, oru; ouncf;. 

Tan ft^^H, (iiHj )>ouih1. 

One quart of flour, ouo. pound. 

On<5 pint of finely choppod moat, packr;d Holidly, oiio 
pound. 

i^utter, onr{ pint, one pound, when well packed. 

A common Hized tumbler hoIdH luilf a pint. 

Velvet Cream. 

Two tableKpoouHful of gelatine diHHolved ina half tumbler 
of water, one pint of rich cream, four tablenpoonHof Bugar, 
flavor with almond or vanilla extract, or roHe water. Put 
in mould and nat on the ice. Serve with whipped cream. 



38 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

Iiemon Cream. 

One lemon, peel and juice, four tablespoonsful of sugar, 

two tablespoonsful cold water. Beat the yolks of four 

eggs, and add the lemon, sugar and water ; let it thicken 

on the stove, stirring constantly, then stir in the beaten 

whites of the eggs with two tablespoons of sugar, and take 

the mixture off the fire. 

Margery Daw in the Kitchen. 

Huckleberry Pudding. 

One quart of canned huckleberries, one quart of flour, 

one pint molasses, one tablespoon of soda. Mix molabnes 

well together. Put some of the flour on the berries, mix 

all together^ adding spice, cinnamon, allspice, ginger, in 

all a tablespoonful. A very little cloves, mace, and add 

salt. Steam three hours. 

Mrs. G, Hickok. 

Cream Pie. 

Six eggs, two cups of sugar, two cups flour, one tea- 
spoonful of soda ; two of cream -tartar. Beat eggs 
separately; then together, add sugar, then soda dissolved 
in water and cream tartar mixed in flour, then add flour. 
Bake in jelly cake pans. 

Custard for Sauce. — Two eggs, one cup sugar, three- 
quarters of a cup of flour (or corn starch), one pint of 
milk. This is put between two loaves of cake (as jelly 
cake) with or without a meringue on top, and one half tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. This makes three loaves, and two eggs 
tnakee a meringue for one pie. 



DESSERTS. 39 

Cold Cream Pudding. 

One pound of loaf sugar, quarter of a pint of water, 
boiled together until the sugar begins to rope, the whites 
of eight eggs, beaten to a stiff froth ; mix these with the 
above while hot; one quarter of a box of gelatine, dissolved 
in a little water, add a little peach juice (either canned or 
fresh), three peaches sliced iine, some pineapple and 
oranges, a little grated cocoanut; flavor with vanilla, 
liquid sauce, with a little orange juice, and grated rind. 



Ambrosia. 

Sliced oranges and grated cocoanut laid in layers in a 
glass dish, and serve. 

Mrs. F. Kellogg, 

Coffee Jelly. 

One pint of sugar, one pint of strong coffee, a pint and 
a half of boiling water, half a pint of cold water, a box of 
gelatine. Soak the gelatine two hours in the cold water, 
pour the boiling water on it, and when it is dissolved add 
the sugar and coffee, strain, turn into moulds, and set away 
to harden; to be served with sugar and cream. 

Miss Parloa. 

Caramel Custard. 

Two heaping tablespoonsful dark brown sugar, burn in 

an old tin, mix with enough milk to soften it. Then strain 

it, and stir it into, a quart of soft custard. Flavor with 

vanilla. 

Mrs. F, E. Lathrop. 



40 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK, 

Wine Jelly, 

One box of p^elatine in a pint of cold water, with the 

juice, and grated peel of three lemons. Let this stand 

overnight, then add one quart of boiling water, one pound 

of granulated sugar, one pint of sherry or white wine, stir 

until it is dissolved, and strain through paper muslin, then 

pour into moulds or tumblers, and stand in a cool place 

until hard. 

Mrs. W. H. Beadledon. 

Indian Pudding. 

One quart of milk and a little Fait, with one quarter 

pound suet, finely chopped. Let them be scalding hot, 

put tbe dish in a kettle of boiling water to avoid burning, 

and add a little nutmeg, indian meal, to make it of the 

<;on«^istency of mush, sweeten to taste (two scant cups of 

meal stirred in gradually). 

MvH, F, E, Lathrop, 

Pie Pastry. 

Three cups of flour, one cnp of lard, an,d almost a cup of 
water, mix together with knife, roll thin and spread with 
very little butter, the second rolling use for crust. 

Jfr.<. F. K. Lalhrop, 

Lemon and Raisin Pie. 

Take the inside of one lemon, except the seeds, chop 
with half a cupful of seeded raisins, add two small table - 
spoonsful of flour, one cup of sugar, and one cup of water; 
bake with two crusts. This makes one pie. 

Bei'lcshive Cook Book, 



DESSERTS 41 

Fig Pudding. 

One half pouDd bread crumbs, one half pound of figs, 
one half pound of brown sugar, two eggs, a little nutmeg, 
one quarter i)ound suet, a teacup of milk, one quarter 
pound of flour. The tigs and suet to be chopped very fine 
and mixed with the bread crumbs, flour, sugar and nut- 
meg; stir all together and add the milk and eggs well 
beaten. Boil in a mould four hours. To be eaten with 

sauce, hard or soft. 

Jfrs. W, H. Beadledi)}}, 

Lemon Pudding. 

Beat together the yolks of ten eggs, one half pound of 
powdered sugar, juice of three lemons and peel of one. 
Soak one ounce of gelatine in three-eights of a pint of hot 
water, and beat well. Beat whites of eggs very stiff and 
stir in last. 

Sauce. — Boil one i)int of cream, and one quarter of a 

pound of powdered sugar. Beat yolks of four eggs, and 

stir in, flavor to taste. 

Norioegian Recipe, Mrs. Donald. 

Orange Baskets. 

Make baskets of eight oranges, strain the juice and make 

a jelly, with three pints of water, gelatine and sugar. Fill 

baskets, and when firm, cut orange peel in quarters, tie 

with ribbon, and serve one on each p!ate, with whips, made 

with cream to ornament the top. 

Mrs. J. J. Hal pin. 



42 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

Baspberry Joy. 

Take the juice from a can of raspberries and strain it, 
then beat to a froth the whites of four eggs, adding a cup 
of powdered sugar, gradually stir in the juice and a tea- 
spoonful of gelatine dissolved in a half teacup of water; 
pour in moulds and freeze before serving. 

Mrs. J. J. Ealpin. 



CAKE. 



** With weights and measures just and true, 
Oven of even heat, 
Well buttered tins and quiet nerves. 
Success will be complete." 



General Directions. 

!Flour. — Should always be sifted before using. 

Cream op Tartar — or baking powder should be sifted in 
the flour. 

Soda. — Should always be dissolved in the milk. 

Butter and Sugar. — For cake, should always be beaten 
to a cream. 

Eggs. — Beat the yolks until you can take up a spoonful ; 
whip the whites to a stiff froth, and stir them into the 
cake with the flour, the last thing before putting the cake 
into tins. 

To BOIL A PUDDING. — Dip the bag into cold water, and 
sprinkle the inside with flour. 

To PREVENT THE JUICE FROM RUNNING OUT OF A PIE. Take a 

a strip of muslin wide enough to cover the edge of the pie 
and go around it and lap ; wet the cloth in cold water, and 
pin around the pie; when it is taken fi'om the oven, remove 
the cloth. 



44 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

Delicate Cake. 

Two cups of sugar (granulated), one cup of butter, two 

cups of flour, one cup of milk, one cup of corn starch; the 

whites of six eggs, two teaspoonsful of baking powder, 

mix sugar and butter to a cream, then take half of the milk 

and mix with sugar and butter, and sift flour twice : mix 

corn starch with the remainder of milk, and at the last, mix 

the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Soft icing flavored with 

lemon. 

Mrs, O. Hic1col\ 

Angel Cake. 

One cup of flour, one and one half cups of powdered 

sugar, one teaspoonful of cream tartar mixed with flour 

sifted twelve times. Whites of eleven eggs beaten to a 

stiff froth, one teaspoonful of vanilla, then beat moro. 

Stir the flour and sugar in ^gg sufficient to mix. Do not 

grease the tin. Bake thirty of forty minutes in a slow 

oven. When taken out of the oven, turn in a colander 

upside down. 

Mrs. F. Kellogg, 

Coffee Cake. 

One scant cup of granulated sugar, two thirds of a cup of 
butter, two eggs, two cups of flour, two teaspoonsful of 
baking powder, two thirds cake of Baker's chocolate dis- 
solved in one cup of boiling hot coffee, strong flavor. 

Soft Icing. — One cup sugar, one third cup of boiling 

water. Boil five minutes without stirring, then stir until it 

hardens. 

Mrs, O, Hichtk, 



CA KE, 46 

Helen Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, half a cup butter, three cups of flour, 
one cup of sweet milk, three eggs, two teaspoonful of 
baking powder. Bake in square tins, sprinkle half cup 
stifted sugar on the top before baking. 

Mrn, T. b\ Shar])e. 

Crullers. 

Two and a half cups powdered sugar, one half cup butter 
one pint milk, three eggs, two teaspoonsful of soda, three 
teaspoonsful cream tartar, a little salt, nutmeg and lemon 
flavor, mix soft. Cut in fancy shapes and fry in hot lard. 

Minn Jieadledon. 

Orange Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, two cups of flour, half a cuj) of water 
that has been boiled and cooled, yolks of five eggs, whites 
of four eggs, the rind and juice of one sour orange, half 
a teaspoon of soda, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar ; 
bake in layers. Take the rind and juice of one orange, the 
white of one Qf^^^ beaten to a stiff froth, sugar enough to 
stiffen, spread between the layers, and on top. 

Molasses Cake. 

Two cups of molasses, one cup of butter mixed together^ 
one tablespoonf ul of soda dissolved in one cup of boiling 
water, stir quickly and thicken with flour, adding one half 
teaspoonful of essence of lemon and one half teaspoonful 
vanilla. Dried currants or raisins make it a delicious cake, 
or spices may be added if desired. 



46 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

Sponge Cake. 

Beat four eggs very light, yolks and whites together,. 

then beat in two cups of powdered sugar, one cup of sifted 

flour, a little at a time, then a second cup of flour, with two 

teaspoonsful of baking powder mixed in it, the juice and rind 

of one lemon, lastly a small tea cup full of almost boiling 

water stirred in gradually, put in a moderate oven and do 

not look at it for twenty minutes. It should be done in 

that time. Do not stir sponge cake from the bottom when 

adding the last flour, or it will be heavy, 

Mr^s, A, Hay, 

Orange Cake. 

Five eggs beaten separately, three coffea cups of sugar, 
three quarters of a coffee cup of butter, one coffee cup of 
sweet milk, four coffee cups of flour, juice of one orange, 
and a little of the rind (grated), one teaspoonful of soda, 
two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar. Place yolks, sugar, 
butter, and the orange juice in a large bowl; beat until 
light and creamy. Then add the milk, whites of eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth, then the flour (soda and saleratus); 
dissolve soda in the milk. Bake in jelly pans. 

Icing. — One coffee cup of granulated sugar, white of 
one egg, juice of one orange. Put the sugar on stove, in 
just enough water to moisten ; let it boil until clear, and 
will spin a thread. Have the whites of the egg well 
beaten, and have some one drip the sugar in while you are 
beating, and continue to heat until it is thick and white, 
then stir in the orange juice ; should it make it too thin, 
add more sugar until thick enough. This makes a very 
large and delicious cake. Mr,^. F, Kellogg. 



CAKE. 47 

Pearl Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, one half cup of butter, one cup sweet 

milk, three and a half cups of sifted flour, one third cup corn 

starch, whites of five eggs, two teaspoonsful of cream tartar 

and One of soda, or three of baking powder. 

Mm, A. Hay, 

Ginger Cake. 

One cup milk, one cup molasses, very large tablespoon 
of drippings, one egg, one quarter teaspoonful of soda, 
cinnamon, ginger and not very thick with flour, and a little 
salt. Miss H. 

Jumbles. 

One pound sugar, not quite a pound of butter, three 
eggs, a little grated nutmeg, a small quantity of soda in a 
half cup of milk, or less, to dissolve it, but not enough to 
thin the mixture too much, roll out as thin as possible 
and cut. Miss H, 

Pig cake. 

One cup of pulverized sugar, one half cup of butter, one 
cup of milk, three cups of flour, yolks of three eggs. 
Reserve the whites for filling. Two teapoonsful (even) of 
baking powder, in the sifted flour. Bake in jelly cake tins. 

Filling. — Boil one coffee cup of granulated sugar with 
a tablespoonf ul of water in a porcelain sauce pan till it 
drops like candy in cold water. Have the whites of the 
eggs beaten stiff, and pour the boiling icing into whites, 
and add the figs after. Have a half-pound of figs boiled 
one hour and chopped fine, then add all together and put 
between the layers. 



48 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

Sponge Cake. 

One pound sugar, ten eggs, half pound flour and one 

lemon. Beat eggs separately, and add juice and grated 

rind of a large lemon, beat well before putting flour in> 

which comes last. 

3fr8, F, E, Lathro2J, 

Bread Cake. 

Two cups of dough, one cup of sugar, one half cup of 

butter, two eggs, one half tablespoonf ul of milk, one half 

teaspoonful soda dissolved in the milk, one half cup of 

raisins, one half cup of currants; add cinnamon, cloves, and 

nutmeg to taste. Let raise for some time, the loDger the 

better, and bake in not too hot an oven, until thoroughly 

done. 

Miss i?. ff. 



CANDIES. 

WITHOUT COOKINQ. 

" Sweets to the Sweet:' 



French Cream. 

These candies are made without boiling, which makes>- 
them very desirable, and they are equal to the best French 
creams. The secret lies in the sugar used which is the 
XXX powdered or confectioners sugar. It can be obtained 
at the large groceries. Ordinary powdered sugar when 
rubbed between the thumb and finger has a decided 
grain, but the confectioners sugar is fine as flour. Mar- 
gery Daw promises perfect success in following these 
recipes* 

French Vanilla Cream. 

Break into a bowl the white of one or more eggs, as the 
quantity you wish to make will require, add to it an equal 
quantity of cold water, then stir in XXX powdered or con- 
fectioners' sugar until you have it stiff enough to mould 
into shape with the Augers. Flavor with vanilla to taste. 
After it is formed into balls, cubes or lozenger shapes, lay 
them upon plates or waxed paj^er and set them aside 
to dry. This cream is the foundation of all French, 
creams. 



50 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

English Walnut Creams. 

Make French cream as previously directed. Have ready 
some English walnuts, using care not to break the meats. 
Make a ball of the cream about the size of a walnut and 
place a half nut meat upon either side of the ball, pressing 
it into the cream. Lay them away for a few hours to 
dry. 

Cream Cherries. 

Make a small round ball of French cream, cut ^ strip of 
citron the size of a cherry stem, and put the ball of cream 
upon one end of it. Take a cherry glace, and cutting it 
in two, put one half each side of the stem on the cream 
ball and it will make a very pretty candy. They can also 
be made like walnut creams, using cherries instead of wal- 
nuts. Margery Daw in the Kitchen . 

Cream Dates. 

Select perfect dates, and with a knife remove the pit. 
Take a piece of French cream, make an oblong shape, and 
wrap the date around the cream. 

Wintergreen Creams. 

Make the cream as directed for French cream, flavor 
with wintergreen essence to taste. Color pink with 
cochineal syrup, and form into round lozenger shapes. 

Margery Daw in the Kitchen, 

Peppermint Creams. 

Make the cream as directed for French creams, flavoring 
it quite strong with essence of peppermint. Take small 
bits of the cream and shape into round flat forms. 



CANDIES. 51 

Maple Sugar Creams. 

Grate maple sugar, mix it in quantities to suit taste, with 
French cream, adding enough confectioners sugar to 
mould into any shape desired. Walnut creams are some- 
times made with maple sugar and are very nice. 



CANDIES. 



COOKED. 



Molasses Tatty. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, apiece of butter 
the size of an egg. Boil hard, and test in cold water; when 
brittle, pour in thin cakes on buttered tins ; as it cools 
mark in squares with the back of a knife. 

Margery Daw in the Kitchen. 

Pea-nut Candy. 

Two cups molasses, one cup of brown sugar, one table- 
spoonful of butter and one of vinegar. Put into a kettle 
to boil. Having cracked and rubbed the skin from the 
pea-nuts, put them into buttered pans, and when the candy 
is done pour it over the nuts. Cut into blocks while 
warm. 

Chocolate Caramels. 

One cup sugar, one cup molasses, one cup of chocolate, 

one half cup of milk, a piece of butter size of an egg. Test 

in water before putting in the grated chocolate, if it 

hardens, add the chocolate, and cook only a short time, then 

pour into buttered pans. When cool mark into blocks with 

the back of a knife. 

Miss H^ 



54 RIVERSIDE RECJPE BOOK, 

Molasses Candy. 

Two cups of molasseH, one cup of sugar, a piece of butter 
the size of a small egg, one tablespoonful of glycerine. 
Put these ingredients into a kettle and boil hard twenty or 
thirty minutes. When boiled thick drop a few drops in a 
cup of cold water, and if the drops retain their shape it is 
nearly done, which will be when it is brittle; do not boil it 
too much. Have pans or platters well buttered, and just 
before the candy is poured into them, stir in one half tea- 
spoonful of cream tartar or soda. If flavoring is desired, 
drop the flavoring on the top as it begins to cool, and when 
it is pulled the whole will be flavored. Pull till as white us 
desired, and draw into sticks and cut with shears. 

Everton Tatty. 

Three pounds of brown sugar, one and one half pints of 
water, not quite half a pound of butter. Boil until the 
syrup becomes crisp. 

Ohocolate Oreams. 

Use French oream and form it into small cone-shaped balls 
with the fingers; lay them upon oiled paper to harden 

until all are formed. Melt one cake of baker's chocolate in 

an earthen dish or small basin; by setting it in the oven it 

will soon melt ; do not let it cook. To keep the chocolate 

hot, it is well to have a hot soap stone, and place the basin 

with the chocolate upon it. Take the balls of cream one 

at a time on a silver fork, pour the melted chocolate over 

them with a teaspoon and slip them from the fork upon 

oiled paper. 



CANDIES. 55 

Butter Scotch. 

One cup of brown sugar, one half cup of water, one tea- 
spoonful of vinegar, piece of butter the size of a walnut. 
Boil about twenty minutes, flavor if desired. 

Margery Daw in the Kitchen, 

Pea-nut Candy. 

Shell your peanuts and chop them fine ; measure them 
in a cup, and take just the same quantity of granulated 
sugar as you have peanuts. Put the sugar in a skillet or 
spider, on the fire, and keep moving the skillet around 
until the sugar is dissolved; then put in the peanuts and 
pour into buttered tins. This is delicious and so quickly 

made. 

Mias B. 

Pop Corn Balls. 

Six quarts of popped corn, one pint of molasses. Boil 
the molasses about fifteen minutes ; then put the corn into 
A large pan, pour the molasses over it, and stir briskly 
until thoroughly mixed. Then, with clean hands, make 
into balls of the desired size, or put in buttered pans. 



HINTS FOR THE SICK. 



Never keep fruit in a sick room; the sight of it is apt to 
lessen the appetite for it. An orange delicately prepared, 
or a bunch of Malaga or other nice grapes, brought in on a 
dessert plate with a few green leaves, will form a tempting 
and agreeable surprise to the capricious appetite of an 
invalid. 

Sago, prepared like a custard, then baked with apples is 
an excellent sick room pudding. 

Oysters are good for the sick, especially raw (without 
vinegar, lemon juice may be used) a very few at a time. 
They are easily digested and agreeable to the palate. 

Fresh tea should be made as often as the invalid needs 
it, and no food nor drink should remain in the sick room 
but should be kept in adjoining room or outside of the 
window where they would be fresh and cool. 

Every meal should be a surprise, and the patient should 
be left alone while eating if possible. 

Food should be made as attractive as possible, served in 
the choicest china, with the cleanest of napkins and the 
brightest of silver. 



58 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK. 

Beef Tea. 

Take one pound of lean beef, chopped fine (at the mar- 
ket) pour over it one pint of cold water, let it stand an 
hour. Then set it on the back of the range, and let it sim- 
mer slowly about three quarters of an hour; strain and salt 
when used. 

Chicken Broth. 

One chicken jointed, cover it with water, and let it boil, 
closely covered, until the meat drops from the bones. Skim 
off the fat, strain and season with salt, and if desired a tea- 
spoonful or two of rice, and let it boil until the rice is 
cooked . In some cases of nausea a cup of chicken broth 
will prove efficacious. 

Mutton Broth. 

To each pound of meat add one quart of cold water, 
bring gently to a boil, skim it and salt to taste ; simmer 
three hours. A teaspoonful or more of rice may be added, 
and boil till the rice is cooked. 

Oatmeal Gruel. 

Stir two large spoonsful of oatmeal into one pint of 
boiling water, boil gently one half hour, skim, and add a 
little salt, sugar and nutmeg. 

Lemonade. 

Two large juicy lemons, or three smaller ones, one large 
cup of sugar, and one quart of ice water. Bipe straw- 
berries mashed and added are very delicious, or grated 
pj'ne apple it preferred. 



HINTS FOR THE SICK. 69 

Flaxseed Tea. 

One half pound of flaxseed, one half pound of rock candy, 
the juice of three lemons, the skin may be cut into small 
pieces and added. Pour over this two quarts of boiling 
water, and let it stand until perfectly cold. Strain before 
drinking; this is good for a cough ; more sugar and lemon 
may be added. 

Cure for a Felon. 

Two drachms of gum ammoniac dissolved in one ounce 
of alcohol. Bind the flnger up in a linen cloth, and keep it 
constantly wet with the solution. Add more alcohol if 
necessary. (Gum ammoniac is a brown gum). This has 
been tried very successfully. 

To Check a Cold. 

As soon as you feel that you have taken cold, fill a glass 
half full of water, drop into it six drops of spirits of cam- 
phor, stir it and take a dessertspoonful every twenty 
minutes. This is remarkably successful if taken according 
to directions. 

Eoumys. 

Three pints of milk, one tablespoonful of sugar, one half 
Viennese yeast cake. Place on stove and let it grow warm 
very slowly, a little over blood heat, one hundred 
degrees. Take milk and strain it and bottle, placing bot- 
tles near fire and heat through turning bottles every ten 
minutes. After shaking put in window till cool, then put 
in ice box. Heat bottles before filling with koumys ; use 
bottles with fastenings like beer bottles. 

Mt%, J. J. HnJc^'^. 



60 Rl VERS IDE RECIPE BOOK. 

Eoumys. 

One quart of milk, one dessertspoonful of brewers yeast, 

one teaspoonful sugar, mix last two together and a little 

milk, then stir thoroughly into the rest of the milk and 

bottle. After bottling keep in warm room for twelve hours, 

then put in a cold place and the second or third day it will 

be ready for use. 

Miss H. 

For Catarrh. 

Pulverized camphor, carbonate of soda, powdered sugar, 
half as much sugar as camphor, half as much soda as 
sugar. Mix thoroughly in a mortar and snuff half hour 
before retiring, albo in morning when arising. 

Miss H. 

Rheumatism or any Pain. 

One tablespoon of laudanum, one teaspoon baking soda, 
half pint of water; heat all together, and wring out a 
flannel in it, and apply as hot as possible. 

Miss H, 

Throat Qargle. 

One pint hot water, one tablespoon of tannin, two 

tablespoonsful glycerine, gargle often, excellent for sore 

throat. 

Miss H, 

Tonic. 

Thirty grains of quinine in one pint of sherry, with forty 
drops of diluted sulphuric acid to mix the two. 

Miss H, 



HINTS FOR THE SICK. 61 

Cough Mixture. 

One ounce horehound, one ounce hops, one ounce bone- 
set, one quarter pound gum arable. Steep herbs in one 
quart boiling water sevjral hours, then add gum arabic, 
and sugar to taste ; boil until rather thick, strain and 
bottle and keep in a cool i)lace, add a little liquor before 
bottling, so that it will not sour. Six or seven teaspoons- 
ful a day or more, if cougli is troublesome. 

MisH H. 

Hoarseness. 

Lemon juice, gum arabic and rock candy, or loaf sugar, 
a tablespoonful of the solids, and juice of half a lemon. 
Take a little at a time. 

Excellent Tonic. 

Three ounces wild cherry bark (chips), one quart old 
Jamaica rum, two quarts cold water, three-quarters pound 
granulated sugar. Soak the bark in cold water forty-eight 
hours, then strain off till perfectly clear. Add one quart 
of best old rum, then the sugar, stir well and allow it to 
stand a few minutes. Then stir again, and pour into 
bottles; cork tightly. 

MinH Adams. 

Chalk Mixture. 

To be taken in cases of diarrhoea as a relief or help, but 
not depended on entirely as a cure. Take two sticks of 
cinnamon and steep them, add a little sugar and strain. 
For a coffee cup full of cinnamon put about two tea- 
spoonsfnl of chalk. Take a teaspoonful several times a 
a day. 



ODDS AND ENDS. 



For Cleaning Brass. 

Make a thin paste of plate powder, two tablespoonsful of 
vinegar, four tablespoonsful of alcohol; rub on with a piece 
flannel; polish with chamois. 



Custard. 

A satisfactory way to cook custard is to put the pudding 
dish or cups containing the mixture in a pan of hot water, 
in a moderately hot oven. This will prevent the custard 
from getting watery. 

Tooth Powder. 

One fourth of a pound precipated chalk, one-fourth of a 
pound of pulvarized orris root, one ounce of pulverized 
sugar; mix all together, and flavor with win tergreen. 

To Freshen Black Lace. 

Put in a bowl or tumbler equal quantities of water and 

alcohol, let the lace la}' in it a minute, then squeeze it out 

well, and pin out smooth on a newspaper to dry, and you 

will find your lace equal to new. 

Mrs, LcUhrop, 



64 RIVERSIDE RECIPE BOOK, 

Celery. 

Roll celery in brown paper and then in cloth, put in dry 
place, and it will keep a week. 

Remove Ink from Carpets. 

First take up as much as possible of the ink with a tea- 
spoon, then pour cold milk upon the spot, and take up as 
before, pouring on milk until at last it becomes only 
slightly tinged with black; then wash with cold water, and 
absorb with a cloth, without too much rubbing. 

To Polish Furniture. 

One cuj) of alcohol, one cup of turpentine, and two cups 
of sweet oil. 



A little soap put on the hinges or latch of a door will stop 
its creaking. 

If brooms were given a hot bath once a week they would 
last longer, and retain their shape until nearly worn 
out. 



A Poetical Appetizer. 



^' Always have lobster sauce with salmon, 
And put mint sauce your roasted lamb on. 

Teal cutlet dip in egg and bread crumbs, 
Fry till you see a brownish red come. 

In dressing salad mind this law; 

With two hard yolks use one that's raw. 

Boast pork, sans apple sauce, past doubt, 
Is Hamlet with the Prince left out 

Broil lightly your beefsteak — to fry it 
Argues contempt of Christian diet. 

To roast spring chickens is to spoil 'em, 
Just split 'em down the back and broil 'em. 

It gives true epicures the vapors 
To see boiled mutton minus capers. 

The cook deserves a hearty cuffing 

Who serves roast fowl with tasteless stuffing. 

Nice oyster sauce gives zest to cod — 
A fish when fresh to feast a god. 

But we might rhyme for weeks this way. 
And still have lots of things to say." 

— Selected. 



PRIDE OF THE WEST. 



«♦» 



Special attention is called to the celebrated brand of 

BLEAeHGB ^ Muslin, 

WHICH FOB 

Fineness and Durability is Unsurpassed, 



This cloth is manufactured with great care, particuliarly for 
ZADIE8' USE, in 36, 40. and 45-inch widths, and is guaranteed not to 
crack or turn yellow. Inquire for this brand and take no substitute. 

For sale by all leading retail dry goods dealers in the 

United States. 



Established in New York 1836. 



H. A. CASSEBEER, 



APOTHECARY, 



1176 NINTH AVENUE. 292 SIXTH AVENUE. 



• • 



Corner 72d St. . Bet. i8th & 19th Sts. 



<♦» 



Doctors Prescriptions and Family Receipts Carefully 
and Accurately Prepared. 



WILLIAM H. GRAY, 



ESTABLISHED 1850. 



20 & 22 WOOSTER ST. 



Manufactuirer 



Importer i n 
Bealer 



pine Carriag;! 



Victorias, T Carts, Cabriolets, Stanhope 
Phaetons, Broughams, Spider Phae- 
tons, Wagonettes, Landaus, 
Two Wheelers. 

FOUR - IN - HAND TRAPS. 



. P'PaRTIIi V W00D V YEpiCLEg 

In Every Conceivable Shape. 



Tke largest and most complete assortment in the City at exceed- 
ingly moderate, ^tces. 




hmi^B.Kimstii 



ConfBctionBi'. 



Large and Magnifi- 
cent Banquet Hall for 
Receptions, Weddings 
and Sociables. Also 
smaller rooms for Committees, Re-unions, etc- 

Main Store, 49th St. and 6th Avenue. 

Talaphone Call, i03-3eeb. 
TiT.B.nni,«fi- (TithSL&sthAve.. Telephona, ii59-39th 



WEST END MARKET. 

Josepli Sch-uler, 

lgr)ilaaeipr)ia goulfpv avjO. (sianje. 



SiluGF 5i^g Spi?e J^ill^. 



^ D. Lawrence ^haw, ^ 



PROPRIETOR. 



74 Warrgn Strggt, 

NEW YORK. 



irrjporfer ar)d. y iai)ir[0:clurep 



OF 




picia • Mus 





AND 



BAKING POWDERS. 



%©mtmm ^^A.mmmT. 



CHAS. MAYER, 

Dealer in. Clioice 

Beef, Veal Mutton, Lainl), Pork, 8:c., 

Poultry and Game in Season. 

Also Fish, Oysters and Clams Constantly on hand. 

1188 TENTH AVENUE, 

Southeast Corner 73d Street, NEW YORK. 



GEORGE H. TIEMEYER, 

DEALER IN 

Staple & Faney Groeeries, 



IMPORTER OF 



WINES, LIQUORS & SEGARS, 

FANCY FRUITS and VEGETABLES. 

119O and 1192 Tenth Avenue, 

Corner 73d Street, NEW YORK, 



SAMUEL F. ADAM8, WM. CRITTENDEN ADAMS. 

Counselor at Law. Commissioner of Deeds. 



fiDAMS Bl^OS., 

-< RESL ESTSTE BROKERS, N- 

4:32 KiFTH Avenue, 

NE¥ YORK CITY. 



«♦» 



Personal Attention given to the Management of Estates. 



1§6 Bars! iSetl) Sfpeef, 



Mrs. DeNike would call especial attention to her Hair 
Tonic, which she has used successfully for over ten years. It 
is prepared in the most careful manner from herbs, contains no 
oil, and is warranted to remove dandruff, prevent the hair from 
falling out, and cause hair to grow on bald spots if they are not 
perfectly smooth. 

Refers to Mrs. Robert Russelt Booth. 



FREDERICK VAGTS, 



DEALER IN 



Fancy - and - Staple - Groceries^ 

NINTH AVENUE & 83d STREET. 

Wo ))0|yf to call tho attention of our nnmorous friends and patrons to 
the above obarifco of name in the biiHlness carried on at this address. 
TruHtintf to receive a continuance of your esteemed orders. 

Koflpoctfuliy, 

WCX)D & BADIKER, 

Z402 NINTH AVENUE, Cor. 83d Street. 

Ideqep s Cj0r)|ecli0r)eT»y, 



rfjcidisor) «fl^e., cor. §9^1) Sfreef. 



« • • 



]Srar)cr) : yii)fr) «^^er)ue, coi*. 72J Sfreel. 

F^OI^IPON'S I6B (^r^BAM, 

JI^DK KKOJI PQKE CKE^JI. 

IFortoii'H Hup<»r THroscen UriclcH of loe Cream for 
Clnircli l^airn, otc, a Specialty. 

DEPOTS: 

1210 Ninth Avonue. 142 West 125th Street 

5)M Sixth AToniie, and 805 Fonrth Arenne. 



English Enamel. 

The Best in the Market. 



Ready for Use. in Self-Opening Tins. 

150 Tints, Exquisite Colors, Surface like Por- 
celain. Can be Applied by Anyone. 

11 PRIZE MEDALS. 

INVENTED BY 

Thomas Griffiths, F.C.S, M.S.A., 

Original Inventor of Enamel Paint, for Re- 
novating AND Decorating Anthing and 

Everything. 

Furniture, Metal Ware, Wicker Work, Fans, Water Cans. 
25 & 50 Cents, by the Gallon to Decorators, 



ETC., ETC. 
SEND FOR TINT CARDS. 

VITROS' BATH ENAMEL 

00 CENTS A.NT> $1. 

10 EAST 15TH STREET, 
NEW YORK. 



D. E. DEMAREST, 

Successor to MRS. W. MILLE8. 

Dealer in Notions, Fancy Goods, 




^ J^e^yi/ d C2^€^4'^yi€k^U'9^^ ^ 



€d a-'Ti 



1213 NINTH AVENUE, 

Second door from 74th St . 



Agent for the ** Staten Island** Cleaning and Dyeing 
Establishment^ and the * * Troy ' ' Steam Laundry, 



T. C CAMPBELL, 

329 WEST BOULEVARD, Cor. 76th St. 



Dealer in 



DBY & F^MCY GOODS, 

Perfumery, Pocket Knives & Scissors, 

Home and Foreign Weekly and Monthly 

Magazines. 

Agent for TROY LAUNDRY CO. 



Wcsf JQr)(a ©!)cr)00l^ 



. . . . Hi Wesi list 8fpeel 




Collegiate, jfunior and Primary 



fyew vSTvnjijGtsiurr), y iilifctiy WpiII. 



Chester Donaldson^ A.M., 

Head Master. 




\% ^listi Rim Itik^ 

OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK. 



gctpilal, « « 260,066. gupplus, - « 400,660. 



aFFiosR®. 



PRESIDENT, 

W. De Groot. 

VICE-PRESIDENT, CASHIER, 

Charles L. Acker. Peter Snyder, 






mmommm 



9th Ave. and 72d St. 

3d Ave. & 63d Street. | 7th Ave. & i22d Street. 

CIiE^Ngipig, DYEip, 

RerhovcLtirhg and ReJinisTuiThg. 

Kine Krencln Latindry A?Vork. 

REFINISHINQ. 

Laces and Lace Curtains a Specialty. 





^^^^ 



C7IMBRID6E ^ l^TIRKET, 



1404 Ninth Avenue, 



Bet. 83d & 84th Sts., NEW YORK. 



Choice Meats and Poultry, Vegetables ^ Fish and Oysters. 

Game in Season, 



*pi)®E9®® E)in)®i)J. J. ©. Din)®i)d, Ji». 



ESTABLISHED 1852. 



J. G. & T. DIMOND, 

ARCHITECTURAL 




t , > -.pi^ g^^ 



IRON WORKS, 



*+-fe#^^ 



209 & 211 W. 33d Street, 



NEW YORK. 



All kinds of Iron Work for Buildings. 



Telephone Call, 39th St., 29a. 



JACOB WINKLER'S, 

HAMILTON 




1386 JTIJTIB: Jl^E., 

Bet, 82d and 83d Sts., New York. 



Orders received for Fish and Oysters. 



Telephone Call, 894 sgth St 



JOHN A. KELLY, 

Dakota Livery Stables, 

75th St., Boulevard & Tenth avenue, 

NEW YORK. 

Branch Office, 1463 Ninth Avenue. 

Coaches, Coupes, Landaus, Victorias and Light Wagons, Al- 
ways In Rea^tv^ss. 



CHARLES T. WILLS, 

BUILDER, 



10 WEST 23D STREET. 



v^oo^ jop ]^iT)T)(ZTj WqlAkis ^ Jjui)cr)eor)s, 
No. 670 SIXTH AVENQE, 



New York. 

Refer to Mbs. F. E. Lathbop. 



J. THODE, 

Furniture Recovered, Varnished, etc Carpets cleaned by 
steam, refitted and laid. Spring Hair Mattresses and 

Pillows made over. 

30r ORAND BOXJLKVARD, 

Between 74th and 75th Sts. Nkw York. 

YM^^ § PEITMTINN. 

Dealers in 

INE tKOCERIES, 




^S^ Western. (^oulevcurdL, 

Cor. 74th Street, NEW YORK. 

Branch of 1397 9th Ave., cor. 83d Street. 



eSTABLtSHED, 1834. 



INCORPORATED, 1074. 



5l5 3lf 




NOTICE. 




-^ \ 




THE ALLAN HAY CO. 


'S 


- OFFICE 






306 - FOURTH - AVENUE, 



Works: 621 West 38th Street. 



James L. Libby. Edward W. Scott, Jr. VValtcr E, Scott. 



LIBBY & SCOTT BROS, 

Real Estate & Loans, 



EQUITABLE BUILDING, 



120 BROADWAY. 



Nassau St. Entrance. NEW YORK. 



C/HAULRH OtTEM. HKNKV A KlA(K»K 



Otten & Flagge 




73d street and gth Avenue, 

NEW YORK. 



• ■ ' ■' I '■ !" ■ ' ''■•• :, ■' ;ir. ,:.!.• ■. 

'APR 2002 

Prt-snrvationTechnologies 

■■- iv. 't,v I r/inf.fi IN PAf-rn PRr-smvAnus 

■ ■ ■'■' ..'■ •■. 'fc T..' 

' ■■■•■"'■ '"'/ '' ■ ■'•' ',' !,•■ /'A ",'|f,« 




