









>r,li; 


j^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^M 




m^M 




f* 

\'^^- 



I'! 5.' 



if 




BOSTON 
PUBLIC 
UBRT^RY 






>- 
< 

< 

I 

< 
UJ 



UJ 



o 



I 

U-) 

CO 
UJ 

or 

Q- 
X 

LU 



CD 

LO 
LU 
Q 



THREE 



A COLLECTION OF 

VALUABLE AND RELIABLE RECIPES IN ALL 
CLASSES OF COOKERY. 



TOILET, HEALTH AND HOUSEKEEPING DEPARTMENIS 



"There is always a best way of doing everything." — Emeraon. 



MAUD C. COOKE. 



SOLD ST SUBSCRIPTION ONLY. 



CHICAGO: 

ACHE Publishing House Co. 

1890. 



rx ^fy 



Entered according to Act of Congress in the year 1887, by 

MAUD G. COOKE, 

ID the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington, D. C. 






I 



FIRST WORDS. 

\ I /he science of cookery may very properly be 
(2J I (9 classed among the fine arts, and certainly it 
is by no means the least among them ; for, 
in the nature of events, a practical knowledge of 
scientific cooking touches more intimately our homes 
and home comforts, and influences the masses of 
the people as no other art, however lofty in its con- 
ception, or elevating in its results, may hope to do. 
The culinary art may truthfully be said to pave and 
prepare the foundation of all 'sesthetical arts ; for, as 
a man is inevitably what he eats, so the characteris- 
tics of the cookery presented to his palate, are almost 
invariabl}^ reproduced in his life and works. 

" Good Cookery," says a contemporaneous writer, 
" is the foundation of good digestion ; and good di- 
gestion is the foundation and first factor in sound 
thinking. The grain and wheat springing green, 
and ripening under favoring sunshine and showers, 
produce not only a certain portion of food for the 
stomach, but also a certain amount of mental energy, 



(ill) 



IV FIRST WORDS. 

from whicli result thoughts, clogged and bound, or 
free and soaring, according to the form that food has 
taken." Hence the responsibility of the cook, who 
sees in her work not only food for the body, but in- 
spiration for the mind, becomes weighty and far- 
reaching in its possibilities. Proper care and at- 
tention, however, will be found necessary in order 
to secure the best results from a given amount 
of raw material; neither will the moments thus 
spent be time wasted ; for, according to an eminent 
physician, " every young housewife who loves her 
household, and every young maiden who hopes to 
have a household to preside over, should study the 
best works on culinary subjects, just as they study 
grammar, arithmetic, geography, and other elemen- 
tary branches of education in the schools." 

That this theory is gradually making its way 
into the minds of the people, is evidenced by the 
schools of cookery and books devoted to this science 
that are springing into existence on every hand ; and 
not without reason, for a new cook-book is needed 
very much in the same manner that a new fashion 
magazine is required from time to time. 

Every day newer, more healthful, more delightful 
dishes are invented for the delectation of the palate, 
and more economical methods are continually being 
sought out for their concoction, so that the posses- 



FIRST WORDS. V 

sion of one cook-book in a household should not be 
urged as a reason why another work on the culinary 
art should not be purchased also. 

Economy and pleasure alike demand that we 
should acquire the easiest and most skillful methods 
of steering the domestic ship safely and smoothly 
on its way. System is the pivot upon which all 
good housekeeping turns. A careful study of the 
" Household Department " of this book, the " Laun- 
dry, House Cleaning, Papering" and kindred arts, 
will give the unskilled beginner a clear conception of 
the practical details of home duties as accomplished 
by their own hands, or superintended in an assist- 
ant. 

In the " Cooking Department " no pains have been 
spared to collect from every source recipes combining 
healthfulness with palatableness, and daintiness with 
economy. The extravagant cuisine of the wealthiest 
homes has been catered for, while the more moderate 
households, and the small economies appertaining 
thereto, have all been consulted ; friends far and 
near, east, west, north and south, notable housekeep- 
ers, and skilled in every department of housewifery^ 
have contributed their mite to the general whole, 
with the result now before you. 

The " Bills of Fare " herewith given will meet al- 
most every occasion that may arise, while the " Eti- 



VI FIRST WORDS. 

quette of the Table," and the '' Laying of the Table,'' 
for almost any imaginable emergency will be found 
so complete, that a novice need not fear to attempt 
the most minute details. 

The " Dainty Desserts," the " Summer Desserts,'' 
the " Hasty Desserts," the preparation and serving 
of " Fresh Fruits," the different methods of pre- 
paring "Remnants" for the table (Hash, Cro- 
quettes, etc.), the art of "Carving, Marketing, "and 
many other departments, are recommended to the 
reader's notice. 

And last, but by no means least, the " Toilet De- 
partment '' is brought prominently before the ladies. 
It is a lamentable fact, as remarked by a recent 
writer on " Beauty," that " the women of to-day pre- 
serve their youth longer than they do their beauty." 
That they may study this department closely, prac- 
tice its teachings faithfully, and that their beauty 
may outlive their youth,' is the fervent wish of 

THE AUTHOR. 



Order qf Departmemts. 



First Words, 

Mauketing, 

Cakving, 

Soups, 

Fish, 

Game, 

POULTEY, 

Mr ATS, 

Hash and Ckoquettes, 

Eggs, 

condimexts, 

Gakniskes, 

Vegetables, 

Bkeac, 

FlUTTERS, 

Pastry, 

Cake, 

Puddings, 

Pkesekyes, 

Jelly, 

Summer Desserts, 

Ckeams, 

Ice Ceeam and Sherbet 

Table Drinks, 

Fruits, 

Pickles and Vinegar, 

Home-Made Candies, 

French Candies, 

The Table, 

Housekeeping, 

Invalid Cookery, 

Health, 

The Toilet, 

Miscellaneous, 

Index, 



4-7 

9-14 

15-17 

18-34 

35-54 

55-63 

64-75 

7G-102 

103-110 

111-117 

118-138 

139-145 

14G-166 

167-198 

199-203 

204-233 

234-288 

288-319 

320-336 

337-344 

345-365 

366-373 

374-379 

380-387 

388-403 

404-419 

420-425 

426-427 

428-444 

445-478 

479-488 

489-510 

511-528 

529-536 

537-554 



We may live without poetry, music and art; 

We may live without conscience, and live with out heart. 

We may live without friends, we may live without books; 

But civilized man cannot live without cooks. 

He may live without learning, — what is knowledge but 

grieving? 
He may live without hope, — what is hope but deceiving? 
He may live without love, — what is passion but pining? 
But where is the man that can live without dining?" 

•^Owen Meredith, 



MM^KE^IMQ. 



MB,ATS IN GEi.NB.RAlA. 

t>^ EEF. — To be a good judge of meats is essential to safe and 
l*^ successful marketing. Beef is in most general favor and 
<^^^ takes natural precedence in the list. 

Good beef, if young, will be of a bright red color, fine grained, 
firm to the touch. The fat a clear straw color, and a little of it 
through the muscles, giving the meat a marbled appearance. The 
suet should be dry and crumbly, and of a darker shade than the fat. 
In old beef both flesh and fat will be darker, much coarser in fiber, 
and decidedly dry compared with young beef. 

If the beef is of a pale dull color and flabby, it is not well 
matured ; if very dark colored and coarse-grained with deep yellow 
fat it will be found tough and tasteless ; and if it bears greenish 
tints, and feels slippery on the surface it is already stale and un- 
fit for use. 

Meat to be tender, should be eaten when first killed, as the 
muscles are relaxed then. After a short time they stiffen, when the 
flesh will be proportionately hard. Afterward they again relax 
when the flesh will be found as at first, tender and juicy. , 

If kept long the meat should be carefully wiped as often as 
moisture gathers. 

Each side of beef is divided into two parts, the fore and hind- 
quarters, and these again into the various cuts. The hindquarter 
contains loin, rump, round, fillet or tenderloin, leg and flank; the 
loins include the tenderloins, a small part of which runs back 
into the rump. The loin. Is cut usually into steaks and roasts. 
The flank is useless save for corning, as a "plate-piece," that is, one 
from which the bones can be removed after boiling and the whole 



lO THREE MEALS A DAY. 

pressed.. Eib roasts are next best to sirloin, the first five ribs 
being considered the choicest cut. The ribs can be removed and 
used in making sonp-stock and the meat rolled and skewered se- 
curely, for convenience in carving. If the roast is rolled at the 
meat market, have the bones sent home, to be used in making soup. 
Steaks are in most demand. Sirloin is best liked, as it includes a 
portion of the tenderloin ; the third cut of the round is the best 
and juiciest steak. Trim off every superfluous bit of bone or 
gristle and add to tiie soup-stock. 

xVmong other parts, the shank is used for a soup bone; the 
round may be taken for braised beef or pot roast; the flank for 
sonp or stew; hock for souj); the rump to roast or boil. 

Mutton. — Good m.utton is one of the most nutritious and easily 
digested meats in use, and particularly adapted to invalids, but, 
on account of the superabundance of fat, by no means the most 
economical. In choosing mutton particular attention should be 
paid to the appearance of the fat. In the best it should look white 
and clear, and the lean will be firm, dark-red, and juicy. 

Mutton requires long keeping, even more than beef. After a 
few days hanging m a cool place in summer, and much longer in 
winter, it will be found that the cold air has entirely removed the 
"woolly" taste and rendered the meat itself tender. 

The saddle and shoulder of mutton are the most desirable for 
roasting. A sadrJe of mutton is simply the two loins joined. 
The leg, unless very tender, is better for boiling and may be cooked 
when quite fresh. Chops are cut from the loin or ribs. The 
flank and breast are best for stews or broth. Mutton is at its best 
from August to the Holidays. 

Lanib. — Lamb is in season from May to September. It is 
cut very much like mutton. The bones are slightly reddish in 
color, and the fat is firm and white. 

VCilL — Veal, tiiough a favorite meat, requires great discrimina- 
tion in its selection, the question as to its wholesomeness being a 
disputed point. Very thorough cooking is required to fit it for 
the table and even then it is far less digestible than beef or mutton. 
Nevertheless, from mock turtle soup, down through the bill of fare, 
to cjilvcn' foot jellv, veal furnishes the moterial for many dainty 
dishes. It is in season from April to September. 



MARKETING. 1 1 

Good veal should have a firm, white fat, and lean with a piukisli 
tinge. If too white, the calf has been bled, and this detracts from 
the flavor. If too young the meat will have a bluish tinge, and be 
soft and flabby to the touch. 

Younger than four weeks, veal is unfit for food. The loin of 
veal is best for roasting; the leg furnishes fillets and cutlets; the 
knuckle makes a good white soup. The fillet is simply a solid 
piece of meat from the upper part of the leg, and can be roasted 
plain, or stuffed and roasted. The breast answers for stews or 
soups. The sweet-breads are especially delicate, and should al- 
ways be chosen in preference to those of the grown animal. Sweet- 
breads are white, fat-looking pieces, or glands found near the heart 
of the animal. The head makes a delicious mock turtle soup. The 
tongue is excellent pickled ; the brains may be served in epicurean 
ways; the liver is the best of all animal livers, as are the kidneys. 

Pork. — Fresh pork should be firm with clear v^'hite skin, pale 
red lean, and pure w^hite fat. If the fat is tinged with yellow and 
inclined to be soft and flabby, the pork is inferior in quality. 
Spare ribs form the favorite roasting piece, the loin ccming next 
in the popular estimation. Chops and steaks may be cut from 
either loin or ribs. The hams and shoulders are smoked, the other 
portions are usually pickled, and the trimmings utilized as sausage 
meat. The head is most desirable in the form of head cheese 
though it is sometimes pickled ; the feet, under the guise of souse, 
are the daintiest and most digestible portion of the animal. 

GAMR. 

Venison. — This meat is in season throughout the year. It 
requires less care in curing than other meats. Venison is usually 
kept several days before cooking. The time, however, varies with 
the season and climate. If slightly tainted before using> the proc- 
ess of putrefaction may be checked by a free use of freshly 
powdered charcoal. Black pepper is useful to protect from flies ; 
dust thoroughly with it, and wipe off any moisture that may gather 
while hanging. 

When venison is youDg, the fat is clear and white, and of 
considerable thickness, while the lean should be a dark red. The 



12 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

cuts are about the same as mutton. A saddle of venison is a 
favorite roast, loin or haunch coming next. 

Hares and Rabbits. — The marks of a young hare are smootli, 
sharp claws, ears that tear readily and a narrow cleft in the lip. 
With the exception of this last the same tests will apply to the 
choice of rabbits. They should be kept some time before cooking, 
especially hares. 

POULaT^RY. 

Turkeys. — Turkeys from ten to twelve pounds weight are 
most desirable. If young the leg is smooth and black, a rough and 
reddish look indicating age. The meat should be firm, and the 
end of the breast bone easily bent. 

Chickens may be chosen by the same tests, remembering that 
a young fowl will have smooth legs and comb. 

Geese when young, have bills and feet yellow in color, 
changing to red as they advance in age. Another test is the 
brittleness of the windpipe. If this breaks easily between the 
finger and thumb the bird is young, if it rolls it is not to be 
trusted. 

Ducks. — Have supple feet, otherwise the same tests should 
be apphed to them as to fowls. Of the many varieties of wild 
duck the canvas- back is the finest and most expensive, the mallard 
and red-head coming next. 

Pigeons must be selected by the condition of the feet; if stiff 
and dry they show age, while if pliable the bird is young. Tame 
pigeons are larger than wild and much more tender and juicy. 
They make their appearance in October. They should be eaten 
fresh, as keeping spoils them. 

Squabs. — Are the young of the tame pigeon, and are delicate 
and delicious. 

Prairie Chickens can be found in market from September 
to April. 

Partridges when young, have yellow legs and dark-colored 
bill. 

Wood Cock are in season from July to November and always 
excessively high in price. 

Plovers should be fat and have pliable feet. 



MARKETING. I3 

It must be remembered that the odor about all wild birds is 
a peculiar, "gamey" one, in nowise resembling that of tainted 
meat. Bits of fresh charcoal will help to sweeten the inside of 
all game. 

FISH. 

Fresh Fish. — One test can be applied to all varieties. If 
fresh the eyes should be full, the body full, with firm thick flesh, 
the fins stiff, and the skin and scales bright. Small fish coming 
under the head of "pan-fish" are best fried or broiled. The large 
varieties are boiled or baked. Fish in a prime condition, if held 
in the hand horizontally will remain rigid; any drooping of the 
tail shows it not quite right. 

Cod is in season the whole year. The flesh should be firm 
and white. 

Salmon si ould have firm red flesh and gills. When fresh it 
is in season from April to July. It is very rich in oil. Fresh 
salmon is really improved by keeping a day or two. 

White Fish is to be had almost throughout the year. It is 
very white and delicate. 

Mackerel and Herring are oily and nutritious. 

Turbot should be thick and firm with the underside a yellow- 
ish white. 

Halibut if too large, is coarse and dry. About seventy-five 
pounds is a good weight. The flesh of a fresh hahbut should be 
purely white. 

Fresh Water Fish may be chosen by the same tests. 

shriaIa fish. 

Lobsters. — Are best in May and June. If fresh the elasticity 
of the tail will be a marked feature. If boiled remember that 
good ones are very heavy for the size, and that medium-sized ones 
are the best flavored. 

Crabs must be judged by weight ; if good the joints will be stiff 
and the odor agreeable. Eyes dull and sunken betray staleness. 

Oysters. — The small varieties have most flavor and make 
better stews and soup ; for frying, large ones are more convenient. 
Many people keep live oysters, in some cool place, the cellar floor 



14 THREE MEALvS A DAY. 

being usually chosen for this purpose. Sprinkle them thoroughly, 
night and morning, with meal and water, which is thought to flavor 
and fatten them at the same time. 

Eggs are tested by holding them toward the liglit. If tiny 
spots present themselves it is not newly laid. If a large spot 
appears, the egg is bad, and should never be used. The yolk of an 
egg is the most nutritious part; the white of an old egg is compact 
and difficult to digest. Hen's eggs are considered the best; turkey 
eggs not quite so mild ; goose eggs large and well flavored ; duck 
eggs are, perhaps, richer and stronger in taste than any other. 

©UJSLDRIRS. 

Flonr improves with age and costs much less bought by the 
barrel. Whole spice, of every variety, is as necessary as ground. 
A bottle of Halford sauce or mushroom catsup will last years for 
flavoring gravies. The store-room should, if possible, contain 
mustard, pepper, rice, tapioca, maccaroni, vinegar, coffee, tea, sugar, 
chocolate, pearl barley, etc. 






I HE carving knife should bo light, of medinm size, with a fine 
edge. Skill is required in its management far more than 
strength, and to facilitate this, it is well to have the joints 
of the bones of the larger roasts divided before leaving the meat 
market. Thin sHces may then be easily cut. 

If the whole of the meat belonging to eacl. bone should be too 
thick, a small slice may be taken off between every two bones. 

The seat of the carver should be somewhat elevated for the sake 
of convenience and ease of manner. If the cai-ver's seat be low, it 
is more graceful to rise to the feet while carvini, 

FOWLS, 

Place fowls on the platter, breast up. 

In carving, as the legs are always bent inw:ird and tucked into 
the body, tlie skewers or cords by which they are confined should 
be removed before serving. 

Some good carvers prefer laying the fowl on their own plate, 
and placing the joints, as they are cut, upon the dish. 

In taking off the wing the joint only shcald be divided by 
the knife, for by lifting up the pinion of the win*-, with the fork, and 
drawing it toward the leg, the muscles will easry separate. Next, 
slip your knife between the leg and body, cui to the bone, and 
with the fork turn the leg back and the joint wnl give way. The 
neck bones are taken off by putting in the knife and pressing it 
under the long hard part of the bone ; then lift ihe neck bone and 
break it off from the part fastened to the breast. Afterward cut 
slices from both sides of the breast. The back, as least desirable 
of all, is usually left in the dish, though the two sides maybe taken 
off. Be sure to serve dressing to each guest, and if the fowl has 
been trussed with liver and gizzard serve one of these with each 

<15) 



1 6 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

wing. The leg should be divided in two joints for convenience in 
serving. 

Turkey. — This requires first, that the breast should be carved; 
after this ^proceed in the same manner as with a fowl, except that 
the legs and wings being larger, are divided at the lower joint. 
The drumstick, if very hard and dry, is left upon the platter. 

To carve the breast, begin cutting close to the bone. Each 
slice should carry with it a portion of the dressing, or forcemeat 
that fills the body. 

(jloose. — The breast and legs of a goose afford the finest pieces. 
Dismember the legs and wings. Next cut under the merry-thought, 
remove it and slice from the breast, giving a portion of dressing 
with each slice. 

Ducks. — Carve in the same manner. Always remember, how- 
ever, that the joints of water- fowl spread and go farther back than 
those of land fowls. 

Partridges, Pheasants and Grouse. — To be carved in the 
same manner as fowls. 

Pigeons, Quail, Woodcock and Snipe. — These game birds 
are merely split down the back, and one half given to each guest. 

PORK. 

Roast Pig. — A roast pig is divided before being placed on the 
table, and is sometimes garnished with the head and ears. This 
custom is distasteful to many people, and is more honored in the 
breach than the observance. Separate a shoulder from one side, 
then a leg. Dismember the opposite side in the same manner. 
Then divide and serve the ribs, which are frequently considered th<5 
choicest part. 

Hani may be carved in several ways. First, by cutting long, 
thin, delicate slices through the thick fat in the center down to the 
bone. Second, by running the point of the knife in the circle of 
the middle and cutting thin round slices. Last, and most econom- 
ical, by beginning at the knuckle, and slicing upward. 

TONGUR. 

Tong'ue should be carved as thin as a wafer, its dehcacy 
depending greatly on this. Cut crosswise in round slices. 



CARVING. 17 

Beef Heart is to be carved in the same manner. 

BRRP, MUXTON, LAMB AND 

VRAlA. 

('arve these roasts in thin, smooth and neat slices. Cut across 
the grain always, taking care to pass the knife through the bones 
of the meat. 

A Sil'loill of beef should be placed on the dish with the tender- 
loin underneath, 'ihin cut slices should be taken from the side 
next the carver, then turn over the roast and carve the tenderloin. 
A portion of both should be served. 

A Loin of Veal. — Begin at the small end and cut the ribs 
apart and serve. 

VB.NISON. 

Venison. — For a haunch, make a clean incision all along 
down to the bone to let the gravy out. Cut in deep, thin slices 
from the broad end. 

A Saddle of Venison or Mutton.— Is carved from the tail 

forward along each side of the back bone. 

FISH. 

In serving fish take care not to break the flakes, which in cod 
and fresh salmon are very large, and contribute much to the beauty 
of its appearance. A fish knife divides it best. It is customary to 
serve this dish with a fish trowel. The middle part is usually con- 
sidered best. Give a portion of the roe or liver to each person. 

In serving a guest with gravies, do not pour over the meat or 
fish, but on one side the plate. 





^~V* OUP, nourishing but simple, should form the first course at 
•^^^ every dinner table. In its fluid form the aliment is ready 
y^-^ almost immediately to enter the system, and exhaustion and 
irritability disappear like magic after partaking of a plate of warm, 
nutritious soup. 

This department, then, has been prepared with the end in 
view of simplifying and popularizing what in nearly every country, 
save our own, is a national dish. 

Necessarily, however, this division of the book, in order to 
be complete, must contain many hints for elaborate soups, but the 
busy housewife will find far more in accord with a limited purse 
and overburdened hands. In many instances, too, it will be found 
that the name is more elaborate than the really simple nature of 
the soup will justify. For instance,' the appellations, consomme 
and -puree, applied so often to soups, while scarcely translatable into 
equivalent English terms, are as follows: — Consomtne — a rich, clear 
souji, colored or not. Puree, a pulp of meat, or vegetables pressed 
through a sieve and added to a soup until it has the smooth con- 
sistency of gravy. Other soups, Vv^here the beans or vegetables are 
added whole, may be called " j)lain" for the sake of distinction. 

SOUP STOCK. 

To ensure a variety of appetizing soups it will be found advis- 
able to keep a supply of soup-stock to be used as the foundation 
for any required soup. 

Stock is prepared by extracting the juices from meat by slow 
boiling, after which various ingredients may be added to give char- 
acter to the soup. 

To 4 pounds lean beef (inferior parts answer every purpose), 
add 4 quarts of water. Have the meat cut from the bone in solid 

(18) 



SOUP. 19 

pieces for after use; crack the bones, wash the meat if absolutely 
necessary (too much washing injures the flavor), and put all 
together in the soup kettle without salt. Let the water come to 
the boiling point, skim, set back and let simmer gently five hours. 
Keep closely covered and skim frequently. Kapid boiling hardens 
the fiber of the meat and the savory flavor escapes with the steam. 
Add a little pepper, strain into a stone jar and when cool remove 
every particle of fat. Never use tin or iron utensils for putting 
away soup- stock, but strain through a sieve, gauze wire strainer or 
a napkin laid in a colander, into an earthenware vessel or jar. A 
porcelain-lined kettle, with a closely fittting lid is preferable for all 
soups. More than one variety of meat adds to tlie flavor of the 
stock-broth. Mutton and beef, or a knuckle of veal may be ad- 
vantageously combined. Veal alone makes the colorless stock used 
for the more elaborate soups, to which calves' feet, or even tough 
fowl wi]l be found to give an added consistency, without height- 
ening the color. 

The soup will be clear as possible, and, seasonings and vege- 
tables having been omitted, the fat can be clarified for use by melt- 
ing over the fire until all water is extracted, when it may be poured 
into a jar kept for the purpose. Fat prepared in this manner will 
be better for almost all cooking purjioses than lard. 

This stock will keep many days in cold weather, and from it 
can be made many varieties of soup. It will be found serviceable 
also in the preparation of gravies and stews. If desirable to have 
the stock richer let the simmering process continue more than five 
hours. 

To prepare soup from this stock, cut off a slice of the clean 
jelly in the stock jar, add water, heat, season and serve as a plain 
broth. Additional ingredients, such as rice, barley, tapioca 01 
vegetables, may be cooked before being added. Too much boiling 
injures the flavor of the stock. 

The "true inwardness" of soup-stock, however, will never be 
reached until the housekeeper has learned to utilize the accumulated 
fragments of the refrigerator for this purpose. Trimmings from 
the Sunday roast, bones from the same, steak, cold chops, bits 
of fowls, the thin ends of raw porter-house steak, anything 
and everything may be utilized, providing that they have 



20 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

been daintily put away and are free from the suspicion of musti- 
ness. 

Weigh the pieces and add quart for pound of cold water — 
always cold, because cold draws out the juices of the meat, and 
hcu seals them up. Simmer four hours, skimming frequently. 
Strain into the soup jar. When cold remove fat and use as di- 
rected for first soup stock. 

An excellent soup for a small family can be made from the bones 
and trimmings of steaks and roasts that are often cut and thrown 
away by the butcher. If soup is accidentally over- salted this maj' 
be remedied by a teaspoonful of vinegar and the same amount of 
sugar. 

SOUP FLaAVORING. 

Curry Powder. — Mix 1 ounce of ginger, 1 ounce of mustard, 
1 ounce of pepper, 3 ounces of coriander seed, 3 ounces of tumeric, 
I ounce of Cayenne pepper, ^ ounce cardamons, ^ ounce cummin 
seed, i ounce of cinnamon. Have these ingredients well powdered ; 
sift together and keep in a tightly-corked bottle. A sprinkling of 
this will be foimd a great improvement to soups and some stews 
and gravies. 

Soup Herb Spirit. — Take equal parts of thyme, sweet marjo- 
ram, sweet basil, summer savory, parsley and celery seed, gathered 
in their prime ; fill a wide- mouthed bottle loosely with the fresh 
leaves; fill with good vinegar and cork closely. In three or four 
days pour the vinegar into another bottle and cork. This, for those 
who like a variety of herbs in soup, will be very convenient and far 
nicer for use than the same herbs in a pulverized state, though 
these can be used in the form of a powder. 

Parsley or celery, can be dried in a slow oven, the stems of 
parsley picked out and the leaves bottled closely for use — the stalks 
and roots of celeiy grated and bottled. A small bunch of the 
fresh parsley or two tablespoonfuls of the dry will suffice for four 
quarts of soup. 

Rolled Oatmeal is nearly, if not quite, as nice in soup as 
rice. 

Walnut, mushroom and tomato catsups, celery and other 
vinegars will be found in their especial departments, and may be 
added to suit the taste of individuals. 



SOUP. 21 

Gumbo Filee, or Fela, is prepared from sassafras leaves dried 
and powdered. (The addition of a few pulverized bay leaves is an 
improvement.) This gnmbo for Gumbo Filee is indispensable. 
A tablespoonful is often an addition to the commoner broths. 

*' Bay leaf for flavoring," says one epicure, "is among soups 
and meats what the vanilla is among the sweets. Skillful use of 
this gives an unmistakable jflavor of French cookery to domestic 
viands. " One large bay leaf will flavor two gallons of soup, and 
only a small piece is wanted for a family dinner. 

Celery Seed can be used for soups where the celery stalks 
are not at hand. 

BOLTP GOLaORIKG. 

Brandy Colored. — A tablespoonful of burnt sugar dissolved 
in a little water will make a clear soup the color of brandy or very 
strong tea. To make this caramel for coloring, burn in a dry 
saucepan over the fire, stirring constantly until scorched. 

Brown. — This may be obtained by enriching the soup- stock 
with a piece of veal or veal bones roasted brown, and using 
browned flour for thickening. This will give a rich color. The 
flour may be browned in a dry saucepan over the fire, stirring 
quickly until a deep shade is obtained. 

Green. — Bruised spinach, the green leaves of celery, or 
pounded green peas will give a green color to soup. 

Red.-^Kipe tomatoes; or, lobster coral, will color soup red. 

White. — Cream may be added, use white vegetables with rice 
or pearl barley. A teaspoonful of corn starch for thickening does 
not injure the clearness. 

To Clarify. — Soup may be still farther clarified by removing 
fat from stock and boiling slowly with the whites of one or two 
eggs, according to the quantity of broth. The egg and the sedi- 
ment will rise and may be carefully skimmed from the top. 

SOUP FILaLaIKG. 

Quenelles or Eg^ Balls.— The yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, 
half as much boiled potato, while hot; 1 teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley; Cayenne and salt to taste; the yolk of 1 egg raw. Mash 



22 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

all together, make in balls size of cherries, flouring the hands. 
Put iji the soup just before taking from the fire. 

Croutons or Fried Crusts. — Cut cold bread in any shape 
desired — dice, squares, leaves or circles; fry light brown in melted 
butter; one minute will suffice. One or two at a time can be fried 
in the smallest deep saucepan, and but little butter will be re- 
quired. (Hot lard may be used or any other hot fat.) Drain 
them on paper. The hotter the fat the less danger of their soak- 
ing grease. These may also be used for garnishing. 

Forcemeat Balls, No. 1. — Half a calf's tongue, or same 
amount of cold veal; i as much fine bread crumbs; 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of melted butter; 1 raw egg; seasoning of sweet herbs; pepper, 
salt and a dash of curry powder. Mince the meat fine, add the 
other ingredients, make up in small balls about the size of half an 
egg, flouring the hands slightly. Flour, fiy brown in hot fat, and 
put in the soup. 

Forcemeat Balls, No. 2.— Chop any kind of cold meat or 
fowl fine; add a little butter or a bit of raw salt pork minced; 
season well with salt and pepper; a pinch of curry powder is an 
improvement. Mix together with an egg; form into balls; flour 
and fry brown; put them in the soup just before serving. Either 
of these Forcemeat Balls can be used for garnishing meats or fish; 
or, when fried, make an attractive entree or side dish. 

Egg Dumplings, No. 1. — 1 heaping cup of flour; 2 yolks, 
or, 1 whole egg; 4 tablespooufuls of water. Put the flour in a 
bowl; mix the egg with the water and salt, stir into the flour, 
making a stiff dough. Koll rather thin, cut with a cake cutter; 
drop into either water, gravy or soup. Keep the lid on and boil 
ten minutes. 

Egg Dumplings, No. 2.— 1 pint of milk; 2 eggs well beaten; 
a pinch of salt and flour enough to make a batter thick as pound 
cake. Drop them by spoonfuls into soup. Cook five minutes, 
remove to a dish, put bits of butter and pepper over and serve 
with the meat. They can be cooked in boiling water and served 
with cold meat in the same manner. 

Dumplings for Soup. — 1 quart of flour; 2 teaspoonfuls of 
cream tartar, 1 of soda; pinch of salt; milk sufficient to wet the 
flour. Drop by spoonfuls into boiling soup, and boil half an hour. 



SOUP. 23 

German Soup Balls.— 1 heaping teaspoonful fresh butter; 2 
eggs well beaten; salt, nutmeg or ginger; cracker crumbs sufficient 
to form balls. 

Noodles. —Take 1 egg and a pinch of salt; use all the 
flour that this will take up. Eoll thinly as possible and dry, then 
roll up and slice off in narrow strips. Drop into boiling soup 
fifteen minutes before serving. Chicken with noodles makes a 
nice dish. For noodles as a side dish, see page 25. 

MRRT SOUPS.— Veial. 

i\Iock Turtle Soup. — One calf's head, cleaned according to 
directions given below; hock of a ham or a few slices of bacon; 
1 calf's brain; 3 onions, a turnip and a potato; 2 calf's feet; 1 
lemon, Cayenne j)epper, mace, sweet marjoram and parsley for sea- 
soning; soup herb spirit or powder can be used instead of the 
above herbs. Put the head and other meat into one gallon of 
water, or enough to cover well. The ham or bacon will flavor the 
soup, at the same time supplying sufficient salt. Boil slowly four 
hours, skimming carefully until no more scum will rise. Eemove 
the head and set away until next day, when the fat may be skimmed 
off, and the smaller pieces of meat removed from the bones, cut 
into dice and thrown into the kettle, reserving the more present- 
able parts of the head for a dainty side dish. (See below.) Chop 
the brains, cut the vegetables in thin slices, and add all to the soup, 
together with the seasoning. Thicken with two tablespoonfuls of 
browned flour. Stew gently for 1 hour. Squeeze in the juice of 
half a lemon when it boils up; skim, if necessary. Add Force- 
meat Balls, No. 1, made of the veal, and Quenelles (see page 22), 
When quite done add half a lemon sliced thin. Let it boil up once 
and serve immediately. 

To Clean Calf s Head and Feet.— Drop the head and feet 
into a tub of scalding, not boiling water, with a little lye or sal- 
soda in it to loosen the hair. Stir them about and then scrape 
with a sharp knife. This methed is far better than to remove the 
gelatinous skin. The hoofs may be heated in the coals and pryed off. 
Entree of Calf's Head. — Cut the best part of the head that 
is left from soup making into oblong pieces, season with pepper 



24 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

and salt, roll in beaten egg, then in powdered cracker, and fry in 
hot dripping. 

Consomme with Custards. — Boil 2 shanks of veal in 1 
gallon of water. While boiling add the usual vegetables, turnip, 
carrot, onion and seasoning, together with a stalk of celery, half 
a bay leaf, a teaspoonful of bruised pepper-corns and 1 of thyme 
and sweet marjoram. These seasonings, of course, can be altered to 
suit the taste. When done strain through a napkin into anotlier 
vessel; clarify (see page 21), remove every particle of fat, and color 
with a teaspoonful of caramel or dissolved burnt sugar (see page 21). 
Or let the soup stock cool in a jar, remove the fat and pour it off 
without disturbing the sediment and heat; coloring as before. 

Custards for the Soup. — Stir the raw yolks of four eggs 
with a spoonful or two of the Consomme, pour in a buttered dish 
and steam ten minutes. Cut the custard in diamonds or squares 
and drop three or four in each soup plate before serving. Or egg 
dumplings (see page 22) may be boiled in the soup a few minutes 
before serving and make an admirable substitute. The veal shanks 
may be made into veal loaf or veal cheese. 

Veal Soup — Plain. — A leg of veal, after the cutlets have 
been all removed, will make a soup nearly as good as calf's head. 
Boil it with a cup two-thirds full of rice (a small piece of salt 
pork improves the flavor for many), season with salt and pepper, 
parsley and celery are an improvement. Forcemeat Balls, No. 2 
(see page 22), made of the chopped veal and raw salt pork maybe 
added before serving. The veal should be taken up before the 
Boup is seasoned. Just before the soup is served put in a couple 
of slices of toast. The shoulder of veal also makes a good 
soup. 

Veal Soup with Tapioca.— Three pounds of neck or scrag of 
veal, the bones broken and the meat cut small; 1 turnip, 1 onion, 
^ cup pearl tapioca, 2 blades of mace, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt and 
^ spoonful of pepper, 2 teaspoonfuls of celery essence or, 1 stalk 
of green celery, 3 quarts of cold water. Put over the meat and as 
soon as the water boils skim carefully. Then add the vegetables, 
salt and pepper. Meanwhile soak the tapioca in one small cup of 
milk. To make the soup extra nice, strain, skim off every particle 
of fat and return to the fire before adding the tapioca. Stir this 



SOUP. 25 

until it dissolves in the hot soup. Simmer half an hour, add the 
celery essence and serve. 

BRRF. 

Beef Soup. — l pound of beef, 2 quarts of water, 1 cup of rice 
or pearl barley. Put in a soup pot. Boil slowly for two hours. 
In another vessel have a good soup bone, together with 1 onion, 
1 potato, ^ carrot, 1 turnip and a little parsley. Boil with the 
meat. When ready to serve strain the soup off the bones and 
vegetables into the other vessel. Take 2 eggs, beat well in the 
soup tureen, stir the soup and add gradually, and the eggs will not 
curdle. This will be found a good as well as a cheap soup. 

Noodle Soup. — Put soup- bone in a kettle half full of water. 
Salt and let boil. Pare and slice 2 small potatoes, 1 turnip, 1 
onion, 1 parsnip, and add to the soup. Season with pepper and a 
little parsley for flavoring. Fifteen minutes before serving throw 
in the noodles. (See page 23.) 

This soup can have rice substituted in place of noodles. 

Bouillon Soup. — Common soup of France, h pound beef, 
1 pound of bone, 2^ quarts of water, 1 ounce of salt, 2 carrots, 2 
onions, 2 cloves, 3 leeks, ^ head of celery, 1 turnip, i parsnip. 
Simmer. Strain and serve clear. 

Bouillon {Beef Tea). — Bouillon is served now almost as a 
necessity for the first course at tea or evening parties. Serve in 
large coffee cups, or tea cups, with saucers and teaspoons. Some- 
times in Summer it is iced, otherwise serve hot. By some the 
saucer is omitted. This, with fancy sandwiches, is often sufficient 
refreshment for an informal evening party. One can of Liebig's 
extract of beef, mixed with 3 quarts boiling water and salted to 
taste, is the easiest method. Let it boil up, pepper slightly, and 
the soup is ready for use. Or, on the morning of the day before the 
party, boil 4 pounds of the lean, cheap parts of beef, and proceed 
as directed for making soup stock. When wanted remove the fat, 
season to taste, heat and serve as above. 

MUT^rON. 

Mutton Soup. — Place a rack of mutton, or shin bone in 
cold water, boil two hours, then add 1 onion, 2 turnips, ^ head of 



26 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

cabbage, all cut fine, and 1 tablesj)oouful of rice. Boil one hour 
longer, and put in 4 raedium-sized potatoes, which, as soon as soft, 
must be taken out, mashed, and beaten light with milk, add a little 
salt and flour to stiffen, drop into the soup in small portions. 
Cook slowly half an hour and serve. 

GAMR. 

Puree of Game. — A very good game soup may be prepared 
from the remnants of game, even of different kinds. Boil the 
pieces, bones and all of the different birds for an hour or more in 
water, or better still, in weak broth or soup stock. Boil 3 or 4 
turnips or heads of cauliflowers and rub or mash fine. Pound the 
meat fine and rub through a sieve to a powder, and return meat 
and cauliflower to the soup, together with 2 eggs beaten into | pint 
of milk. Let this reach the boiling point (but not boil), and serve 
hot. 

White Babbit Sonp.— 2 rabbits, disjointed, 1 head celery, a 
little chopped parsley, a minced onion. Put these into 3 quarts of 
water, and boil gently until tender. Take out the best pieces of 
rabbit for a separate dish. Separate the rest of the meat from the 
bones, replace the bones in the kettle and boil an hour; strain the 
liquid in which they have boiled and let it cool. Kub the meat 
fine with the yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs, and a few bread or 
cracker crumbs ; put through a sieve and add to the soup ; add 
salt and pepper to taste ; let it simmer fifteen minutes, thickening 
with 2 teaspoon fuls of corn starch or rice flour. 

Brown Babbit Soup.— Disjoint the rabbit, roll in flour and 
fry brown in butter. Put this in a kettle and cover with 3 quarts 
of boiling water. Season with pepper, salt and parsley (add a 
minced onion if liked). Boil three hours. Thicken with browned 
flour and send to the table with fried crusts. (See page 21.) 

CHIGKRN. 

Chicken Soup. — Truss the fowls that they may be presentable 
at table. When partly done add ^ teacup of rice. Thicken 
slightly, according to the amount of liquor, with 1 or 2 teaspoonfuls 



SOUP. 27 

of flour, rubbed smooth in a teacup of milk. Season with salt, 
pepper and parsley or celery; add slice of bread just before the 
soup is served. If too rich, skim before adding the compound. 
Serve the chicken (which may or may not have been stuffed before 
boiling) with a gravy made from the soup and thickened slightly 
with flour, to which the chopped giblets may be added. 

Chicken Bean Soup. — Cut up the chicken, and put in as 
much water as is wanted for your soup. Soak 1 teacup of beans 
over night. Next morning cook them in a separate vessel. Put 
a lump of soda the size of a pea in the water, and when the beans 
are tender, drain them carefully and put them to boil with the 
chicken. Season with salt and pepper and boil slowly until done. 

Giblet Soup. — Giblets, pinions and neck of 3 chickens, or 2 
geese, a small slice of ham and 2 quarts of water. Slice a turnip, 
carrot and onion, and fry brown in a tablespoonful of butter in a 
saucepan, pour in water and add the giblets, etc., first cutting them 
in small pieces. Season with parsley or celery. Stew slowly for two 
hours. Thicken with a large tablespoonful of flour rubbed smooth 
in cold water. Let it boil five' minutes and season to taste with 
salt and pepper. 

Chicken Green Corn Soup. — Cut up 1 large fowl, and boil 
in 1 gallon of water until tender. Add the kernels from 12 ears of 
corn to the soup, first removing the chicken from the kettle, and a 
cup of the broth. Stew one hour longer. Season with pepper, salt 
and celery, or parsley. Thicken with a tablespoonful of flour 
rubbed smooth in 1 cup of milk. Let it boil up once and serve. 
Canned corn may be used. 

Gravy for Chicken. — To a cup of chicken broth add 1 beaten 
egg well stirred in, place over fire, and thicken with flour. 
Season with pepper, salt and parsley. Let it boil and pour over 
the chicken. This green corn soup can be made very nicely by sub- 
stituting veal for the chicken, and proceeding in the same manner. 

GUMBOS. 

These are Creole dishes, and may be divided into gumbos 
proper and Jilees. The glutinous thickening of the former is 



28 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

furnished by okra ; of the latter, by a preparation of dried sassafras 
leaves, with a small quantity of pulverized bay leaves. 

An excellent way to utilize the remains of cold roasted chicken, 
turkey, game and other meats is in preparations of the gumbos. 
Oysters, crabs or shrimps may be added, and green com, tomatoes, 
etc. Below we give several methods of compounding this dish. 
The gumbos occupy the medium ground between stews and soups. 

Southern Ouiubo Soup. — l large chicken, 1^ pints of green 
okra pods, three pints of water, 1 small teaspoonful of pepper 
and 2 of salt; cut the chicken in small pieces, roll in flour and fry 
brown in a little lard or butter. Take out the chicken, add the 
gumbo (sliced okra pods) and brown that. There should be 
about one table- spoonful of fat in the pan; add to this a heaping 
lable-spoonful of flour and stir until brown ; then add three pints 
of water slowly, stirring until smooth. Put in the meat of the 
chicken and simmer slowly for two hours. Serve with boiled rice. 

OunibO Filee.— Cut up and season the chicken, meat or 
game to make the soup ; fry to a light brown with 1 onion cut tine, 
add boiling water in proportion to the meat. 2 pounds of 
meat or chicken, with ^ pound of ham or bacon will flavor a 
gallon of soup, which, when boiled down will make gumbo for 
six persons. When the boiling water is added to the meat let it 
simmer two hours. To this amount add one tablespoouful of the 
Jilee, or, if okra is used, take 1 quart'of the sliced pods. 

Oysters will be found a great improvement. Scald and clarify 
their liquid; season to taste; pour into the soup and let boil fifteen 
minutes; add the oysters last and let it boil up once. Green corn 
and tomatoes are agreeable additions. Gumbo is always served 
with plain boiled rice. Never strain it. (See rule given for Gumbo 
Filee page 21). 

FISH. 

Oyster Soup, No. 1. — To 1 quart of oysters with their juice 
put 2 quarts of cold water, 1 pint of milk, 1 heaping teaspoonful 
of salt, and let them boil one minute. Skim out the oysters, add 
half a teacup of crackers rolled fine, half a teacup of butter and a 
little pepper; let this boil up and pour over the oysters. It is some- 



SOUP. 29 

times better to heat the milk separately, not pouring. together imtil 
both milk and water are boiling hot; this will prevent curdling if 
the milk is at all doubtful. 

For persons preferring the oysters without milk the same 
method may be followed, adding water in place of milk, and using 
a larger quantity of butter. Walnut catsup (see page 126), or 
plain vinegar may be added by those who like it. 

Oyster Soup, No. 2.-6 dozen oysters, 2 quarts of white 
stock, 1 cup of cream or rich milk, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 1^ 
tablespoonfuls of flour, salt, Cayenne and black pepper to taste. 
Scald the oysters in their own liquor, then skim them out; add 
the stock to the oyster liquid carefully strained and simmer for half 
an hour. Add the seasoning, and mace if used, bring it to a boil 
again; add the thickening of butter and flour, rubbed smooth; 
simmer five minutes ; have the cream heated in a separate vessel 
and pour it in boiling hot and turn at once over the oysters. Serve 
with sliced lemon and oyster crackers. 

(For Stews see Shell Fish.) 

Clam Soup. — 50 clams, hard or soft, boiled in a quart of 
water one hour. Take out and cliop fine. Add to the clam broth 
1 quart of hot milk, ^ teaspoonful of pepper and 1 of salt. It 
will be necessary to taste, as some clams require less salt than 
others. Eub 1 teaspoonful of butter to 1 of cream, with 2 of flour; 
add the broth until it pours easily, and mix with the milk and 
chopped clams; boiling all together for five minutes. The soup 
may be strained if the clams are disliked. Serve with toasted 
crackers. 

Lobster Soup. — l whole lobster, 2 pounds in weight, or 1 
can preserved. 1 quari of milk, 1 pint of boiling water, 2 table- 
spoonfuls butter, 1^ teaspoonfuls salt, 2 tablespoonfuls corn starch, 
I teaspoonful of mace, if liked, some Cayenne pepper. Put the 
milk over to heat, (a double boiler is nicest, or a stew pan set in 
boiling water). Dissolve the corn starch in a little cold water, and 
add to the boiling milk. If the lobster is fresh, pick the meat from 
the shell and cut in bits, place in a pint of water and boil five 
minutes, adding the butter and seasoning. Turn this into the 
thickened milk and serve at once with toasted cracker. Canned 



30 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

lobster should be cut up in the same way and allowed to boil up 
once. A delicious dish. 

Fish Cream Soup. — Season the water in which fresh fish has 
been boiled, with pepper and salt, and keep until the next day. 
Heat 1 quart of the liquor, when wanted, to boiling, mince a 
cupful of cold fish and add to this. Let simmer five minutes and 
stir in 3 tablespooufuls of butter rolled in flour, and 1 tablespoon - 
ful of minced jiarsley. Add to this 1 cup of hot milk into which 1 
cup of dry bread crumbs has been stirred. Stir well, let it boil up 
once and serve with crackers. 

Cat Fish Soup. — Skin, clean and cut in pieces. To | small cat- 
fish, allow 1 slice of ham, cut in bits. Cover these with 2 quarts 
of water, season with pepper and parsley, the ham supplies the 
salt, boil until the fish is tender, remove the back bones. Add 
to it a quart of boiling milk and 4 tablespoonfuls of butter cut in 
bits and rolled in flour. Stir in the beaten yolks of 4 eggs, boil 
quickly and serve while hot. The ham may be omitted, and the 
soup seasoned with salt. Other small fish may be cooked in the 
same manner. 

Meat Ve2;etable Soup. — Boil a knuckle of veal, or a shank of 
beef in sufficient water to cover it, salt and skim carefully. Let it 
cook slowly between two and three hours, add hot water if neces- 
sary for sufficient quantity of soup. Shred or chop fine ^ a small 
head of cabbage, 2 potatoes sliced thin, 1 turnip cut in dice, 1 
onion sliced, 1 carrot chopped fine, and 1 head of celery sliced. 
All or any of these may be used. In the proper season the soup 
may be greatly improved by the addition of from 3 to 6 ears of 
green corn cut from the cob, or a can of corn, (the canned corn 
must not be added until shortly before serving.) One or two sliced 
tomatoes are an addition. Season with salt, pepper and parsley 
and let it cook over a good fire half an hour. 

Puree of Cauliflower or Cauliflower Cream Soup.— 1 
quart of soup-stock, 1 pint of miJk, 1 pint of cooked cauliflower, 1 
tablespoonful of minced onion, ^ blade of mace (for those who like 



SOUP. 31 

it), salt, white pepper or Cayenne, 1 tablespoonful of minced pars- 
ley. Cauliflower left from a previous meal can be used. If cooked 
for the purpose, pick in small branches, and boil in salted water 
half an hour. Boil the minced onion in the stock. Mash the cauli- 
flower and put in ; boil the milk and add, season, thicken if ne- 
cessary with flour until the consistency of thin cream. Add the 
butter and the minced parsley. 

Green Corn Soup.— Cut the kernels from 12 large ears 
of green corn, and just cover them in a stew-pan with boiling 
water. Boil half an hour, add a quart of milk, pepper and salt to 
taste. Beat three eggs very light. When the soup just comes to 
the boiling point again, stir in the eggs and serve quickly. 

Pearl Barley Broth. — Cheap dish for large family. 2 pounds 
of neck of mutton, 1 cup of pearl barley, 1 carrot, 2 turnips, 1 
onion. Put the pearl barley over to stew in 3 quarts of water, let it 
boil, add the mutton. A slice of lean ham improves the flavor for 
many. Boil one hour, skim occasionally. Add the vegetables cut 
in small squares, the onion sliced; boil an hour longer, thinning 
with hot water if necessary. Place small slices of stale bread in 
the tureen, pour the soup over and serve. 

Potato Soup (with milk. A Farmer's Dish) — Take good 
sound potatoes, peel and cut in pieces small enough to be eaten 
with a spoon. Soak in cold water, or rinse well. Boil in sufficient 
water to cover when done. Add 1 quart of milk. Season with 
salt and pepper to taste. When cooked take 2 tablespoonfuls of 
flour, with half as much butter, and fry in a pan, stirring until 
changed into a brown color. Stir in with the potatoes and serve 
at once. Season with celery or parsley if wished. To make still 
nicer beat up 1 or 2 eggs in a cup of cold milk, stir in and serve. 

Potato Soup (without milk). — Take a slice of pickled pork, 
four inches square, and fry crisp in the kettle in which the soup is 
to be made. If pork is disliked, 3 tablespoonfuls of slightly 
browned butter will take its place. Then add 3 pints of boiling 
water, 1^ pints of shced potato, and 3 sliced onions. Boil half 
an hour, season with salt, pepper and parsley to suit the taste, 
serve with broken toast or crackers. 

Puree of Potatoes or Potato Cream Soup.— Boil a soup 



32 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

bone, together with a small knuckle bone of boiled ham, or a slice 
of pickled pork, a turnip and a carrot sliced and an onion minced 
fine in 3 quarts of water until it is i educed to 2 quarts. Boil and 
mash 2 large potatoes, mix 1 cup of milk or cream with them, add 
this to the soup, and strain the whole through a colander, leaving 
the coarser vegetables, and the result will be a smooth creamy soup 
that is to be seasoned with salt, white pepper and a teaspoonful of 
minced or dried partlcy. 

Puree of Beans, either green or dried, peas, etc., can be 
made after the same rule. 

Jardiniere Soup. — Take any kind of nice broth, which has 
been strained, or clear soup stock, season with salt and a little 
pepper. For 3 quarts of soup cut 2 carrots and 2 turnips in dice, 
1 onion in slices, 1 head of celery chopped fine and ^ pint of can- 
ned corn or green corn. Cook the carrots, turnips and corn half 
done in clear water, then add all the ingredients to the soup and 
boil one-half hour. 

Bean Porridge.— Take a large iron kettle and place in it a 
good sized piece of beef, the cheaper portions will answer, cover 
with cold water, skimming at intervals. In the meantime have 1 
quart of beans previously soaked over night, put these also in cold 
water to which 1 large half teaspoonful of soda has been added, 
let them boil until they commence to soften, and then skim from 
the soda water into the boiling soup. "When nearly done mix l pint 
of corn meal smooth with cold water and stir in, adding 2 red- 
pepper pods, season with salt to taste. Serve with soda crackers. 
This dish improves with age, and should be made in cold weather. 
Keep plenty of boiling water on the stove to supply the loss by 
boiling. When done it should be the consistency of ordinary 
bean-soup. 

Bean Soup (without meat.) — A simple and delicious soup 
may be made by soaking one pint of beans over night. In the 
morning parboil in soda water as above. Cook in 3 quarts of 
water until very soft and broken. Season slightly with salt, pepper 
and a generous piece of butter. Serve with crackers. 

Bean and Corn Soup. — 1 pound of lean beef, cut in small 
pieces ; ^ pound of salt pork ; 1 quart of dried beans soaked over 



SOUP. 33 

night; 1 onion sliced, 1 teaspoonful of celery salt, 1 of pepper, 2 of 
salt, a little parsley, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 1 tablespoonful of 
sugar, 1 can of corn, or the same amount of green corn; 5 quarts of 
water. Put everything in the water but the corn, and boil slowly 
for two hours. One hour before using, stew the corn slowly in a 
separate sauce-pan adding the butter and a little salt. Strain the 
soup through a colander rubbing the beans to a pulp. Place again 
over the fire and add the corn; boil all together a minute and 
serve with toasted crackers. This soup may be made without 
straining. 

Tomato and Bean Soup. — Make bean soup according to the 
above recipe, substituting in place of the corn a can of tomatoes, or 
the same amount of fresh tomatoes. Half an hour before using 
put the tomatoes over with 1 cuj) of boiling water and the season- 
ing and stew to a pulp, rub them through a sieve and add to the 
soup. Put croutons (see page 22) in the tureen and pour the soup 
over them. 

Tomato Soup (with milk.) — 2 large cups of tomatoes chopped 
fine, boil in 1 quart of water, for twenty minutes, add a bit of soda 
as large as a pea, stir, turn in 1 pint of sweet milk, season with 
salt and pepper, also a good sized piece of butter. Thicken with three 
Boston crackers rolled fine, let boil up and serve. 

Tomato Soup (without milk.) — 12 fresh tomatoes, or 1 large 
can; 1 quart boiling water, 1 onion, 1 carrot, |^ turnip, stalk of 
celeiy, or parsley. Cut all fine and boil one hour. Season with an 
even tablespoonful each of salt and sugar. As the water boils 
away add more that the quantity may remain the same ; mix a 
tablespoonful of butter with 2 heaping tablespooufuls of flour 
and add hot soup until it will pour easily. Turn into the soup; 
boil all together for five minutes. 

Pea Soup (with meat — cheap and excellent) — A marrow bone, 
or the bones of cold roast beef. 2 or 3 pints of split peas, accord- 
ing to required thickness ; 2 carrots, 2 turnips, 3 onions, 1 stalk 
of celery, thyme or parsley, whole black pepper. Break the bones 
and put them in the kettle with 4 quarts of cold water. Add 
the peas, previously soaked over night in warm water, and the 
sliced vegetables. Let them boil for two hours stirring frequently 

3 



34 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

to prevent burning. When the peas are soft and broken the soup 
may be taken off, if wished, and put through a sieve into another 
kettle, stir until the pulp is thoroughly mixed with the soup, salt to 
the taste. A slice of ham may be added to soup if the flavor is 
liked. Serve with toasted bread cut in squares or croutons (see 
page 22). Green peas for soup need no soaking. Peas require 
care in cooking as they become tough and hard if overdone. 

Vegetable Ham Bone Soup.— Should the ham be a little 
strong, boil the ham bone, which should have a little meat with it, 
in plenty of water for five or more minutes ; then pour it off and 
add enough fresh water to freely cover it. This should be cooked 
gently, tasted and seasoned. Cut a potato fine and boil with it. 
Other potatoes can be added, cut into pieces, before the soup is 
done. Just before serving, pour in enough milk to make it palata- 
ble, and thicken to taste. The souj) should be free from fat. The 
water in which whole hams are cooked, if the ham is sweet, can 
also be used for soup. All the fat should be removed and vegeta- 
bles, seasoning and thickening added to taste. 

The water in which salted beef and cabbage are boiled is often 
used for soup when the beef is not very salt. 

Prepare in precisely the same manner as for Ham Bone Soup. 
One egg beaten, stirred stiff with flour, and dropped into the soup 
in bits is an improvement. 

Cream Vegetable Soup.— 

2 turnips, cut in dice. 

3 onions, sliced. 

4 potatoes, chopped. 

1 pint of cabbage, shredded. 

6 ears of corn, cut from the ear. 

Or equal amount of canned corn may be used. 
Cover the ingredients with water, and stew until quite tender. 
Then turn in boiling water sufficient for the amount of soup de- 
sired. Do this twenty minutes before serving Add: 

1 pint of milk, thickened with 

1 tablespoonful flour. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

2 eggs, well beaten. 

Stir all in carefully and boil five minutes. Serve. 



M^M. 



PRRSH, SALaT^ and SHRIaLa. 

BISH for the table should be selected with care. Follow the 
rides given in the chapter devoted to Makketing. 
Fish should be dressed as soon as possible after they 
are caught, washed thoroughly in cold water, and salt rubbed on 
the inside. This will remove any earthy or muddy flavor. If to 
be broiled sprinkle pepper on the inside, as salt will* prevent their 
browning nicely. The flesh of fish is apt to become -flabby if 
soaked in water too long. 

Fish freshly caught are always improved by keeping until the 
next day before cooking. If procured in the market they should 
be used the day they are purchased. 

Fresh Mackerel become stale in a very short time after being 
caught. 

Blue Fish spoil sooner than any other fish. 

Fish Koe or eggs, should be carefully preserved and cooked 
with the fish. 

Frozen Fish should be put in cold water to draw out the frost. 

Vinegar is better to preserve fish than salt. Cover the fish 
with it. 

Fish to be boiled should be either sewed or tied up carefully 
in thin mushn, or cooked in a regular fish kettle, otherwise it will 
be almost impossible to serve without breaking. 

Lard is usually preferable to butter in frying fish. Some use 
lard and butter in equal quantities. 

Fish can be improved in flavor by rubbing with vinegar, or 
adding ^ cup of vinegar to the water in which they are boiled. 

Codfish, or other dry salt fish can be easily shredded by 
using a steel fork. 

(35) 



36 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Fish, when prepared for the table should never be laid double, 
if it can be avoided, as the steam from the under layer makes the 
upper layer so soft as to break easily when being served. Fish 
should be served alone immediately after soup with potatoes. Care 
and punctuality are necessary in cooking fish. To be underdone 
or overdone is equally injurious to the viand ; always serve as soon 
as cooked. 

Fish Sauces. — See chapter on Sauces. 

Fish Croquettes. — See Croquettes. 

Fish Omelets. — See Eggs. 

GARNismNG Fish. — See the department of Garnishes. 

FRRSH FISH. 

Boiling Fish. — All fresh fish, except salmon, should be placed 
in salted cold water for boiling. If placed in boiling water the 
outside would cook much sooner than the inside. A little vinegar 
added to the water in which fish is boiled, improves the fla- 
vor. Put the fish in the kettle with the backbone down. To 
eight or ten pounds of fish put half a small tea cup of salt. Boil 
the fish gently until you can draw out one of the fins easily. Most 
varieties of fish will be well done in twenty or thirty minutes, some 
in less time. Drawn butter, with hard boiled eggs sliced. Liver 
Sauce, or if j)referred Milk Sauce. 

Sauce. — Drawn butter, with hard boiled egg sliced. Liver 
Sauce or Milk Sauce. See Sauces for directions. 

Broiling Fish. — When a fish is broiled the bars of the grid- 
iron should be rubbed over with a little butter and the inside of the 
fish put toward the fire. Eemove the backbone by running a knife 
under it. Do not turn until the fish is almost cooked, then butter 
the outside, and turn it over. Fish should be broiled slowly. 
The flakes will begin to separate when the fish is done. Season 
before serving. A wire hinge broiler is the best. 

Frying Fish. — Fish for frying, after being cleaned and 
washed should be rolled in a cloth to absorb the moisture. Cut in 
neat pieces, dip in beaten eggs and roll in flour or corn-meal. For 
every 5 or 6 pounds of fish fry a few slices of salt pork to the gra- 
vy thus obtained, if necessary, add lard or butter. Fresh fat 



FISH. 37 

may be used, but that from the pork gives a better flavor. Brown 
the fish quickly, theu cover the pan and set back to steam and cook 
through. 

Plain Gravy. — Kemove the fish, rub 2 or 3 teaspoonfuls ot 
flour smooth in a little water, and stir into the fat the fish was 
fried in. Add butter, pepper and salt. If desired, flavor with 
catsup or lemon juice. Pour the gravy around the fish, or serve 
separately. 

To Bake Fish. — Do not remove head or tail. Stuff. Sew 
or wind a string around the fish. Lay pieces of sliced pork across 
top. Sprinkle with water, pepper, salt and bread crumbs. Pour 
hot water into pan. Baste often while baking. Serve with drawn 
butter sauce. If not frequently basted the fish will be too dry. 

Bread Stuffing for Fish.— 

2 cups of bread crumbs. 
1 small cup of minced suet. 
1 small cup of warm water. 
1 egg beaten. 

Season with salt, pepper and thyme or savory. Mix together. 
This stuffing will do for any fish. 

Baked Blue Fish. — Scale and cleanse the fish. Dry with a 
clean cloth, and fill the inside with the above stuffing. Sew up 
and put in a baking pan with a slice of pickled pork, a bit of onion, 
salt and dripping or butter. Pour in enough water to prevent 
bu 'ng. Bake half or three quarters of an hour, basting frequent- 
ly. Eemove the fish carefully to a platter. Pour enough water in 
the pan for gravy. Season with pepper. 

Bass, Pike and Pickerel.— These large fish are suitable for 
baking. Cleanse and fill with stuffing. Sew the fish up, spread 
thickly with butter, dredge with flour, fry a good sized slice of 
pickled pork quite brown. Add one cup of boiling water, lay the 
fish in this and bake one hour; baste frequently. Bemove the fish 
when done, add browned flour and butter to the gravy, cook a few 
minutes, then pour around the fish. Garnish with thin slices of 
lemon and sprigs of parsley. Fish may be baked without the 
pork, by using hot dripping or butter. 

Boiled Bass. — Boll the fish in mosquito netting to preserve 



38 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

the shape, and boil according to rule given for boiling fish. When 
done, serve with a sauce and sliced egg, or egg sauce. 

Mackinaw Trout Baked. — Before baking this fish remove 
the head and tail. In your careful preparations put dripping in a 
baking pan, sprinkle with salt, add ^ cup of water and a spoonful 
or 2 of vinegar, or, i lemon sliced. Bake tlie fish half an hour, 
basting frequently. The fish by this time is nicely browned ; re- 
move it to a platter; pour hot water into the pan, thicken slightly. 
Add lemon juice to taste, and pour under the fish. 

Baked White Fish. — After dressing, split the fish down the 
back and remove the backbone. Wipe the fish and dip in beaten 
egg. This may be applied with a feather. Boll in flour and then 
in egg again. Lay it in a baking pan that has been previously 
heated, add dripping or butter, and bake carefully in a moderate 
oven for 20 minutes. Baste often. If the fish is properly cooked, 
not scorched, it will be of a rich yellow-brown. Serve with hot 
fish-sauce. 

Pickerel may be baked in the same way and served with 
green peas. 

Salmon Collared. — Split such a part of the fish as may be 
sufficient to make a handsome roll. Wash and wipe; mix salt, 
mace and allspice, in a quantity to season very high, rub it inside 
and out. Koll tight and bind in shape with a strip of thin muslin 
and put it, with bay leaves, pepper and salt, into a mixture of two 
thirds water and one third vinegar, sufficient in quantity to cover 
the roll. Cover closely and simmer until done. Serve cold. 
Boiled fennel makes a pretty garnish, and is preferred by many. 

Boiled Salmon. — Families purchasing a fresh salmon should 
parboil the portion not required for the day's consumption and lay 
it aside in the liquor. Boil it in this liquor when wanted. By 
this means the curd wiU be set and the fish will be equally good as 
at first. The custom of serving up rich sauces is unknown in 
countries where salmon most abound. A little lemon juice, or 
white wine vinegar added to melted butter, being quite sufficient. 

To Broil. — Cut the salmon in thick slices, dry on a clean 
towel, roll in flour and broil carefuUy. Grarnish with boiled fen- 
nel and parsley. Boil the fennel in bunches. 



FISH. 39 

Salmon Steak and Potatoes.— Dredge the steak with pepper 
and salt some time before cooking, brush with melted butter, (this 
may be done with a feather), and broil ten minutes, same as a 
beefsteak. Heat the platter. Have new potatoes ready boiled, 
cut them in quarters and lay a double border around the steak. 
Melt a bit of fresh butter and pour over it hot, also the juice of ^ 
lemon. Garnish the ^potatoes with sprigs of parsley. 

Salmon Salmi. — Separate the fish in flakes, using either cold, 
boiled or_,canned. Add to it an equal amount of lettuce, shredded. 
In winter the heart of a white cabbage may be substituted. Mix 
well and pour over it the following dressing : 

1 egg beaten light; 

2 teaspoonfuls sugar; 

3 tablespoon fuls vinegar; 

^ teaspoonful salt, a dash of pepper; 

2 tablespoonfuls salad oil or melted butter. 

If preferred, nonpareil or some other cooked sauce may be used. 

Boiled Red Snapper.- This fish is common in the Gulf of 
Mexico and is one of the most delicious for table use that the wa- 
ters of the sea afford. 

To boil, take a medium sized fish, cleanse and wash in cold 
water, tie tightly in a clean cloth, cover well with hot water, to 
which, for a fish of from 5 to 8 pounds, add ^ cup of vinegar and a 
handful of salt; boil for forty-five minutes, or until the flesh comes 
readily from the bones. Serve hot with sauce as follows : 1 pint 
of water thickened with flour, let boil until clear; add salt to sea- 
son, a little pepper, 1 tablespoonful of butter, and 2 hard boiled 
eggs sliced. 

Baked Red Snapper. — Cleanse the fish, and in removing the 
entrails make no longer cut than is necessary. Stuff the fish with 
dressing as follows : Take sufficient stale bread to fill the cavity in 
the head and body, soften with cold water; take 2 tablespoonfuls 
of lard in a sauce-pan, mince a medium sized onion and cook 
brown in the lard; add to the softened bread. Mix well and season 
with pepper, salt and sweet herbs. Put enough water in the pan 
to prevent scorching and dredge the fish slightly with flour. Serve 
hot. This dressing will answer for other fish. 



40 THREK MEALS A DAY. 

Red Snapper and other fish may be baked with a can of to- 
matoes poured over them in the pan, with very good result. 

Fresh Mackerel. — This fish may be broiled carefully, but- 
tering the fish and the bars of the gridiron, or it may be sewed 
closely in a thin cloth and boiled in salted water, if a fish kettle is 
not at hand. Twenty minutes is sufficient for a common sized 
fish. It is always a delicate dish. 

Fillets of Halibut.— 

3 pounds of halibut. 
^ cup of butter. 
1 lemon. 
8 hard-boiled eggs. 

After skinning the fish, bone carefully, cut in slices half an 
inch thick. Cut these into strips three inches long and two wide. 
Squeeze the juice from the lemon and sprinkle on the strips liber- 
ally. Season with salt and pepper. Cover the whole with a large 
dish and set away for half an hour. Melt the butter, dip the strips 
in it. KoU them up and pin each piece with a wooden toothpick; 
dip in the butter once more and place in a baking tin. Dredge 
thickly with flour and bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. Grate 
the yolks of the eggs through a sieve and cut the whites into rings. 
"When the fish is done spread the little rolls upon a hot dish, 
remove the skewers, and pour white sauce into the dish. Sprinkle 
the grated yolks over the fish and use the whites, cut in rings, for 
a garnish. Other large fish can be served in the same manner. 

Flaked Fish. — Take half a pound of cold cooked fish nicely 
flaked. Make a sauce as follows : Dredge some flour into ^ cup 
of hot water placed in a stew pan ; add butter the size of an egg, 
1 dessert spoonful each of mixed mustard and anchovy or pepper 
sauce, 1 cupful of cream or rich milk ; put in the flaked fish, heat 
well and serve; or pour in a buttered dish, cover thickly with 
breadcrumbs and brown the top in the oven. A desirable way of 
using fragments of fish. 

Boiled Cod. — Allow fifteen minutes to the pound in boiling. 
Sew the fish in thin muslin unless you have a regular fish boiler. 
Cover with cold water suited; add 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 
This will make the fish more flaky. The boiling must be a gentle 



FISH. 41 

simmer, anything more rapid breaking the fish. Use egg or oyster 
sauce. 

Fish Chowder (Daniel Webster's).— Take a cod weighing 10 
or 12 pounds. (Cod is better than haddock.) Have it well cleaned 
by the fishmonger, leaving the skin on. Cut it into slices 
an inch and a half thick, preserving the head, which is the best 
part for chowder. Take a pound and a half of clean, fat salt pork 
and cut it into thin slices. Cut 16 or 18 potatoes into thin 
slices. Take a very large pot, put the pork into the bottom of it 
and fry out all the fat; add to it 3 pints of water. Then put in a 
layer of fish so as to cover as much of the surface of the pot as 
possible. Then a layer of potatoes. Then sift over it 2 table- 
spoonfuls of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper and a little flour; 
then the pork, cut in strips; then another layer of fish and what 
potatoes there may be left. Fill the pot with water until it covers 
the whole. Place it over a good fire and let the chowder boil 
twenty-five minutes. Then have ready 1 quart of boiling milk and 
12 or 14 hard crackers split. Put these all in and let it boil five 
minutes longer. Your chowder will then be ready for the table; 
and an excellent one it will be, if you follow the directions 
implicitly. 

P. S. — A couple of onions may be added where persons have 
a taste for the vegetable. 

Fish Chowder — No. 2. — Fry in a pot some pieces of fat 
pork well seasoned with pepper. When done remove the pork and 
put in 2 onions sliced. Then some fresh cod cut in pieces, or any 
other fresh fish, a layer of Irish potatoes sliced, another layer of 
the fish, finish with the remainder of the potatoes. Season each 
layer highly with pepper and salt. Pour over this 1 pint of water. 
Let stew half an hour, then add 1 pint of boiling milk previously 
thickened with flour. Let this boil up and serve hot. 

Fried Eels. — Eels can be found in market ready skinned for 
cooking. Split them lengthwise and remove the bone. Cut the 
strips into three inch lengths; dredge with salt and pepper; dip 
each piece in egg and then in cracker meal. When the lard is hot, 
drop them in and fry about five minutes. Garnish with parsley 
and serve with potatoes. 



42 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Broiled Eels. — Eels, if very large, are best split open, cut in 
short pieces, seasoned with salt and pepper, and left standing sev- 
eral hours, after which they may be carefully broiled. Butter the 
bars of the gridiron to prevent scorching. 

Baked Eels. — Eels are very tempting, cut in small strips and 
laid in a deep dish with bits of salt pork. Season with salt and 
pepper. Cover well with breadcrumbs and bake half an hour. 

Baked Halibut. — Lay the fish in strong salt and water. 
Wipe dry, score the top, lay in a dripping pan with a cup of boiling 
water poured over it. Allow twelve minutes to a pound for baking. 
Have ready 2 tablespoonfuls of butter dissolved in hot water, 
mingled with the juice of a lemon, and baste often with this mix- 
ture. When a fork penetrates easily, take up, and add to the gravy 
1 teaspoonful of Worcester sauce or catsup, and 1 tablespoonful of 
butter rubbed in 2 tablespoonfuls of browned flour. If too thick 
mix with boiling water. 

Potted Halibut. — Mince cold halibut, removing the bones, 
rub smooth with a wooden spoon. To each cupful of the fish add 
1 teaspoonful melted butter, 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice or vine- 
gar, and a dash of Cayenne. Put the mixture in a dish and 
set in a saucepan of boiling water. (A double boiler is very 
convenient for this purpose.) Heat the fish thoroughly through. 
When nearly cold pack in tumblers, cups or small jars, and cover 
the top with clarified butter (see page 77), or suet, which should be 
poured on warm, but not hot. This is very nice, and will keep 10 
or 12 days in a cool place. To use remove the butter, take out the 
required quantity and slice ; if any remain, re-melt the butter or 
suet and pour it back. 

Potted Codfish. — Prepared in the same way as halibut, 
chicken, tongue, ham and mutton, may all be prepared in this 
manner also. 

Broiled Shad. — After dressing remove the backbone, also 
head, tail and fins. Baste on both sides with butter and broil. 
Moisten with butter while broiling. Ten minutes will cook a 
moderate-sized fish; fifteen minutes a large one. Season with salt. 
Place on a hot platter and garnish with Saratoga potatoes. For 
sauce, Maitre d'Hotel Butter. 



FISH. 43 

Fish Forcemeat Balls. — Take a little uncooked fish, what- 
ever variety is to he served. Chop it fine with ^ as much raw salt 
pork. Mix it with a heaten egg, a few hread crumbs, and season 
the whole with pepper, salt, mace and nutmeg. A little catsup 
may be added; flour the hands and make it into small balls, and 
fry in hot dripping to a delicate brown. Serve with fish. 

Sour Baked Fish (German Style).— Dress the fish nicely. 
Take 1 tablespoonful of flour, 1 tablespoonful butter, 1 onion sliced. 
Mix together and brown in the butter, stirring all the time. Sea- 
son with 1 slice of lemon, 3 bay leaves, salt and pepper to taste. 
Add 1 teacupful of vinegar weakened with ^ water. Lay the fish 
in the pan, turning it in the dressing. If forcemeat is used, the 
following German preparation will be found excellent. 

Dressing for Baked Fish. — Take stale bread or biscuit equal 
in quantity to a small loaf. Cut in slices, soak in cold water until 
thoroughly moistened. Press dry with the hands. Mix this with 
1 large onion chopped fine, and 5 eggs well beaten. Season with 
^ nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful butter, salt and pepper to taste. Stuff 
the fish with this, sew up and bake, basting with the above mix- 
ture. 

Potted Fish. — Cut a fish in conveniently sized jiieces, rub 
salt on each side, place them in an earthenware crock, sprinkling 
in pepper whole, and other whole spices, allspice, cloves, mace, 
between each layer and cover with good cider vinegar. When the 
jar is nearly full, tie a paper over and cover this with an earthen- 
ware cover. Bake in a moderate oven between three and four 
hours. This is delicious and will keep two or three weeks in a cool 
place. 

SALaT? fibh. 

Salt Codfish. — Cover the necessary quantity of fish with cold 
water, and soak over night, a tablespoonful of vinegar may be 
added to the water. In the morning pour off this water and put 
over the fire with fresh water; bring this to the boiling point and 
remove to the back of the stove and let it simmer, not boil, until 
noon. Serve on a hot platter, garnish with sliced beets and par- 
ley, or sHced hard-boiled eggs. Spread the fish liberally with but- 



44 THREK MEALS A DAY. 

ter. Use drawn butter and sprinkle plentifully with black pepper; 
or, pour egg sauce over the fish, if preferred. 

Another way: Soak and cook the fish as above, seasoning 
with butter and pej^per in the same manner. Just before serving 
pour over all a teacupful of sweet cream. Parsnips are very nice 
to send up with salt cod. 

Fried Salt Cod Fish. — Freshen thoroughly as before, and 
fry daintily in sweet butter. 

Codfisll Balls. — Shred cold boiled codfish very fine, add to it 
an equal quantity, (or even more), of mashed potatoes. Moisten 
with 1 beaten egg, or 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of sweet milk. Season 
with pepper and a little butter. Make small flat cakes, flour and 
fry brown in hot dripping or lard. A more delicate dish is made 
by dipping the balls in beaten egg, then in bread crumbs and drop 
in boiling lard fry like fritters or croquettes. This is a more health- 
ful method as less lard is absorbed. Some cooks add a dash of 
sage or thyme to the seasoning. This is a very nice breakfast 
dish. 

Codfish Stew. — Shred the fish and put to freshen in cold 
water on the back of the stove. Toward the last let the water 
reach boiling point, turn off and pour over the fish boiling milk 
well seasoned with salt pepper and butter. To 1 cupful of the 
shredded fish, 1 quart of milk will be required. Thicken slightly 
with flour. It will be found an improvement to stir in a well 
beaten egg at the last moment. 

Codfish oil Toast. — Prepare the codfish as above (egg except- 
ed). Soften dry toast in boiling water, butter, place in a dish and 
pour the codfish and milk over it. 

Codfish and Cheese.— Freshen a piece of salt cod over night; 
when ready pick to pieces and stir into it 1 cup of milk, boiled 
with 2 tablespoonfuls of cornstarch and 1 tablespoonful of butter 
Let it boil and when the flsh is thoroughly heated pour the whole 
into a buttered baking dish. Grate cheese thickly over the top 
and brown in the oven. 

Salt Mackerel. — Salted mackerel should be placed in an 
earthen dish of cold water several hours before it is cooked. In 
cooking place it in cold water, let it boil, then turn off the water 



FISH. 45 

and pour over it ^ cup of sweet cream, roll a piece of butter, size of 
an egg, in flour and add to the cream. Let it boil. Serve at once. 
White-fish may be prepared in the same day. 

Fried Salt Mackerel. — Soak as directed, drain and place in 
a frying pan with butter. Simmer over a slow fire until well 
heated, when it will be ready to serve. 

Broiled Salt Mackerel. — Freshen over night as directed, 
drain it carefully or well in a dry cloth. Butter the bars of the 
gridiron to prevent sticking, and broil the fish, laying it on the 
broiler, inside down. Turn for an instant before taking up. Serve 
on a hot platter with a liberal supply of butter. Garnish with 
lemons sliced. 

Baked Salt Mackerel. — Freshen as before, drain, pour boil- 
ing water over the fish, let stand a few moments, then turn off, and 
put the fish in a long tin, well buttered. Put over it ^ cup of sweet 
cream, (rich milk with a little butter will do), pepper and put in a 
hot oven ; let it brown slightly and serve, adding more cream if 
more gravy is needed. 

White Fish. — Place in plenty of cold water over night, or 
still better, in a pan of sour milk. Scald slightly when ready for 
cooking, lay on a well-buttered plate with bits of butter over the 
fish, and put it into the oven till the butter melts, after which it is 
ready for use. 

Smoked Salmon. — Soak smoked salmon in warm water five 
or six hours. When ready to cook place in cold water and bring 
to a boil. When cooked, flake nicely. Have ready 8 hard-boiled 
eggs chopped, and put with the fish in ^ pint of thin cream (rich 
milk can be used), add two tablespoonfuls of butter rubbed with a 
teaspoonful of flour; skim and stir the mixture until boiling hot, 
serve in a plain dish, or make a waU of mashed potatoes around 
the platter to be used and pour into it the fish thus prepared. 

Canned Salmon Pickled. — Cut the salmon in pieces and 
place in a hot pickle prepared as follows : 1 quart of vinegar (if 
very strong dilute with water), 1 teaspoonful ground mustard rub- 
bed smooth in vinegar, 6 blades of mace, 10 kernels allspice, 10 
kernels black pepper, 4 teaspoonfuls sugar. Boil and skim until 
clear. Let the pepper and spice remain. Eemove the salmon 



46 THREB MEALS A DAY. 

and pack in jars. Pour the vinegar into the jars boiling hot. 
Seal the jars securely and set in a dark place. 

Canned Salmon. — Arrange the fish in as large pieces as pos- 
sible upon the platter, carefully picking out the bones. Garnish 
with lemon and parsley. 

Deviled Salmon. — This dish may be prepared from either 
canned or cold boiled salmon. Arrange fish in neat flakes and 
pour over it the following dressing. This dressing may be used 
for lettuce alone. Dressing — Yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs, 1 table- 
spoonful of salad oil or melted butter, rub with the eggs to a 
smooth paste; add 2 teaspoonfuls each of sugar and mustard, salt 
and Cayenne to taste, add a little vinegar. Arrange lettuce leaves 
around the plate, pour the di-essing over the fish, and garnish with 
the whites of the eggs cut in rings. 

Canned Salmon with Drawn Butter. — 1 can salmon, 1 cup 
drawn butter (see Sauces). Shred the salmon carefully, removing 
the bones. Season with a little pepper. Mix with the drawn 
butter and add the juice of i lemon, or 4 teaspoonfuls of good 
vinegar; pour into a buttered pudding dish. Cover ^ inch deep 
with fine breadcrumbs, cover and bake fifteen minutes, then 
uncover and let it brown. This dish may be made with cold 
boiled salmon. Sliced lemon may be served with this. 

Fish Scallop.— 

i pint cold boiled salt fish. 
^ pint cold mashed potatoes. 
2 boiled onions chopped. 
^ teaspoonful pepper. 

Kemove the bones, mince the fish, and season with the pepper. 
Put a layer of the fish in the bottom of a buttered dish. Then 
a layer of potatoes sprinkled with onions; leave potatoes for the 
last layer. Add bits of butter, and bake brown. 

Sardine and Ham Sandwiches. — Mince sardines fine and 
mix with ^ the quantity of cold-boiled ham also minced fine, and 
spread over thinly-cut and slightly-buttered bread. Eoll and 
tie the sandwiches with ribbon, or leave flat and cut in fancy 
shapes. To roU, the bread should be fresh and the crust removed. 
These are nice for afternoon teas, lunches or collations. 



E 



FISH. 47 

Sardines on Toast. — A nice way to serve sardines is to lay 
them on three cornered pieces of buttered toast. Bread may be 
used in place of toast. Garnish the dish with parsley. 

shrlaIa fish. 

Oysters should be carefully chosen; large, extra and firm- 
fleshed bivalves are as necessary for stews as for fries or roasts. 

Oysters should never be plunged in hot water to increase 
their size, as this can only be done at a great loss in flavor. 

Oysters in the shell may be kept a fortnight at the very least 
by spreading them upon the cellar floor with the rounding part of 
the shell down and sprinkling them well with salt and Indian meal. 
Cover them with 2 or 3 folds of blanket or old carpeting, and keep 
this well saturated with cold water. Eepeat the sprinkling with 
meal and salt every day, and see that the covering is thoroughly 
wet. Oysters kept in this manner will be found in a most satis- 
factory condition. 

Oyster Fritters; see Fritters. Oyster Salad; see Salads. 
Oyster Soup and Oyster Croquettes; also under their especial 
headings. 

Oyster Stew. — Strain the liquid from 1 quart of oysters. 
Place this with the meats over the fire. Remove the oysters as 
soon as they begin to boil ; add to the liquor 1 pint of hot cream 
(milk will do, but is not nearly as good), salt, pej^per, mace (if 
agreeable) to suit. Skim well; add 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 
and pour over the oysters. Serve hot with toast or crackers. 

Oysters Stewed with Celery. — Put 1 pint of strong clear 
beef soup-stock in a large stew-pan. Instead of milk use sweet 
cream. Of this cream add 1 pint to the broth in the stew-pan. 
Also 4 tablespoonfuls of the best table butter, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 
1 of white pepper, 1 of ground mace, and 1 of celery extract. If 
celery can be had in the stalk, chop up fine and use instead. No 
more delicate or healthful flavor can be added to any soup, stew or 
broth than this. While this is cooking dredge in finely powdered 
cracker dust and a little of the best corn-starch flour, until thick- 
ened to your taste. Have ready in a hot tureen 50 of the best 



48 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

oysters parooiled in their own juice. Pour over these the sauce 
compounded as above and serve immediately. 

■ Fried Oysters. — Take fine, large oysters, drain thoroughly 
upon a soft napkin. Beat lightly 3 fresh eggs, with an equal bulk 
of the richest sweet cream. Pulverize the heart of the best white 
brea'i, pass the crumbs through a sieve and season shghtly with 
salt and white pepper. Dip the oysters one by one in the egg and 
cream mixture, then roll them carefully and thoroughly in the 
breadcrumbs. Lay aside in a cool place, upon a towel, for half 
an hour. Fry in plenty of hot sweet butter, or, better still, the 
best quality of olive oil. No one trying this will ever again make 
use of lard for this purpose. Fry to a rich brown. Eemove the 
oysters with a skimmer, drain thoroughly and serve on a snow- 
white napkin, garnished with parsley and lemon. The quantity of 
cream given will answer for 1 quart of oysters. 

Fried Oysters, No. 2. — Take the largest and best oysters, 
drain on a folded napkin, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and let 
remain for twenty minutes. Eoll them one by one in pulverized 
cracker crumbs, then dip in beaten eggs. Season again, and roll 
once more in the cracker meal. Drop in a boiling mixture of lard 
and butter, and remove as soon as browned. Serve with some 
acid sauce. Garnish as above. 

Oysters may also be drained, dipped in seasoned corn meal 
and fried in lard. The oyster liquor may be utilized by stirring 
into a batter, with some of the seasoned corn meal and dropped 
by spoonfuls into the hot lard to fry as mock oysters. 

Broiled Oysters. — Select the oysters carefully, dry on a nap- 
kin. Take a double wire gridiron, rub thoroughly with the best 
butter. Spread the oysters carefully on one side of the gridiron and 
fold the other down upon them. Have a clear fire, (a little charcoal 
kept in the house will enable one always to secure a clear bed of 
coals). Broil quickly, not burning, first on one side and then the 
other, turning but once. Melt a little sweet butter, season it 
slightly with salt and Cayenne pepper. Serve the oysters with 
this. Garnish the dish with olives and parsley, and serve instantly. 

Oysters on Toast. — Select a dozen fresh plump oysters. 
Have ready delicately browned toast moistened in hot cream and 



FISH. 49 

well buttered. Put the oysters with their own liquor in a stew- 
pan", season with a little black pepper, ^ blade of mace, and ^ tea- 
cup of rich cream. Let this boil until the oysters swell. Kemove 
and place upon the hot toast enriching with bits of fresh butter. 
Rub 1 teaspoonful of butter and 1 teaspoonful of flour together, 
stir this into the boiling oyster hquor. Then pour it over the toast 
and oysters, which must be kept very hot. For a larger quantity, 
1 quart of oysters and their liquor to one pint of cream or rich 
milk. 

Oysters on Toast. — (Without Milk). — Strain the oyster li- 
quor, rinse the bits of shell from the oysters, turn the liquor back 
upon them, and put in a stew-pan, set them where they will boil up. 
Salt, pepper and butter to your taste. Have ready nicely-browned 
toast, previously moistened in boiling water and well buttered. 
Arrange this in a dish and pour over it the boiling oysters, and 
^rve at once. If this gravy is too rich, add a little water to the 
oyster liquor. Serve walnut catsup or vinegar with them. 

Scalloped Oysters. — Butter an oyster scallop or pudding 
dish. Put in a layer of breadcrumbs with bits of butter, then a 
layer of oysters, season with pepper and salt. Repeat this until the 
dish is full, leaving a layer of crumbs with bits of Tiutter on the 
top. Mix the oyster liquor with half its bulk in milk or sweet 
cream, a beaten egg added to this will be found an improvement. 
Pour this over the top. Bake twenty minutes. When done, if 
not sufldciently browned, heat a shovel very hot and hold over the 
top until it is a rich brown, or uncover the dish and brown in the 
oven. 

Oyster Shell Scallops may be prepared in the same way and 
instead of placing in one large dish bake in the shell of the oys- 
ters themselves, taking the round half. The use of the shells 
seems to impart a richer flavor to the oysters. Place the shells in 
a dripping pan, propping them where necessary. Wash them 
thoroughly before using and eat directly from the shell. A dash 
of powdered sweet marjoram improves this dish. 

Scalloped Oysters with Hard-IJoiled Eggs.— Chop six hard- 
boiled eggs fine. Add these to 1 pint of breadcrumbs. Season 
with ^ teaspoonful of salt and ^ teaspoonful of white pepper and 
4 



50 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

mace. Put a layer of tliis mixture in the bottom of a well but- 
tered pudding dish, then a layer of the best oysters, alternating 
until the dish is full, arranging for a layer of crumbs on the top. 
Take 2 large tablespoonfuls of the best butter. Place bits of but- 
ter over the top. Pour in a little of the oyster liquor and bake in 
a quick oven twenty or thirty minutes. Serve hot. 

Boast Oysters. — Select the desired quantity of oysters. Wash 
the shells carefully, arrange them in a dripping pan with the round 
side down. Put them in a hot oven for twenty minutes. The 
shells will be found slightly parted. Kemove the round side, and 
SDrve on a garnished platter with a bit of butter on each one, a 
dash of Cayenne pepper, and a few drops of lemon juice. Serve 
instantly. 

Steamed Oysters. — Wash shell oysters and lay them in a 
steamer with the upper shell down. Put the steamer over a kettle 
of boiling water. Cover and steam twenty minutes. If at the end 
of this time the shells are open, remove at once and serve on the 
half shell with a pinch of salt and a bit of good butter. Eat as hot 
as possible. 

Oysters Panned, — Put a sufficient quantity of very fine oys- 
ters in a pan together with their own juice. Add one tablespoon- 
ful of the best butter, a little black pepj)er and a pinch of salt. 
Sprinkle a quantity of fine cracker crumbs over the top. Place 
over a quick fire. When the oysters begin to swell they are done. 
Serve instantly. 

Fricasseed Oysters.— 

1 quart of oysters. 
^ cup of butter. 
1 cup of cream. 

1 egg, well beaten. 

2 tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley. 
Pepper and salt to taste. 

Parboil the oysters in their own liquor, remove from the fire 
and skim the oysters into a hot tureen. Put the cream, "butter and 
seasoning on the stove, stirring constantly until it thickens, and 
then add the beaten egg. Pour the mixture over the oysters. 
Cover thickly with breadcrumbs and place in a quick oven to 



FISH. 51 

brown. This fricassee is often served without the final breading 
and baking, in which manner it will be found less troublesome and 
very nice. 

Oyster Pie. — Line a deep dish with nice paste, dredge tlie 
crust with flour, pour in 1 pint of oysters. Season well with but- 
ter, salt and pepper, sprinkling flour over all. Pour on a little of 
the oyster liquor. Cover with a crust. Two hard-boiled eggs 
chopped coarsely and mixed with the oysters, will be found a de- 
sirable addition. The eggs and the flour may be omitted and a 
cup of cracker crumbs used instead. | teaspoonful of mace is liked 
by some. 

Oyster and Salmon Pie. — Drain the liquid from a can of 
salmon and a can of oysters. Carefully remove all bits of bones 
or shells. Pl^ce the salmon and oysters in a buttered pudding 
dish, in alternate layers. Season each layer with pepper, salt and 
bits of butter and dredge lightly with flour. Strain the liquor from 
the oysters and fish, and pour into the dish. Cover the whole 
with a rich pastry crust. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Oyster Patties. — Make tart shells in small patty-pans as for 
fruit tarts, and fill with oysters prepared as follows : Take 1 quart 
of oysters, place in a large baking dish with butter, pepper and salt 
to taste. Bake until the oysters curl. In the meantime put in a 
saucepan 1 pint of milk. When this scalds, add 1 large teaspoon- 
ful of corn starch moistened with cold milk; let boil, season with 
salt and a tablespoonful of butter. A dash of cayenne improves 
the flavor. The gravy should be quite thick. To this mixture add 
the oysters, but do not let them boil. Spread a napkin over a 
platter. A colored one is pretty. Fill the patty shells and serve 
at once. These patties may be changed by filling the patty-pans 
with raw paste, pom-ing in the above mixture, covering the top of 
each one thickly with fine bread crumbs, dotting it with bits of 
butter, and baking in the oven until the crust is done. Serve in 
the same manner. Milk may be omitted in this last way and the 
oyster liquor simply seasoned highly with salt, pepper and butter, 
thickened with corn starch, scalded and poured over the oysters, 
and the patties filled as before. 



52 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Oyster Omelet- 
is oysters. 

4 eggs. 

4 tablespoonfuls of milk. 
Let the oysters boil up once in 2 spoonfuls of milk, seasoned 
with butter and slightly thickened with flour. Beat the eggs with tiie 
milk that remains, add a pinch of salt. Place a spoonful of melted 
butter in a frying-pan, before it is very hot pour the omelet in and let 
it cook slowly. When partly done, loosen the edges with a knife and 
place the oysters in the center of the omelet. Turn the edges to- 
gether to form a half circle. Slip on a dish, smooth side up; gar- 
nish with parsley and lemon. This dish will serve two or three 
persons. 

Oyster Omelet, No. 2.— 

6 large fresli oysters chopped. 

6 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

1 tablespoonfnl of rich soup-stock. 

Pepper and salt to taste. 
Sprinkle ^ teaspoonful of salt over the chopped oysters and 
let them stand half an hour in their own liquor. Beat the 
eggs separately, the yolks to a smooth paste, the whites to a 
stiff froth. Add the stock to the yolk, pepper and salt to the 
taste, and then stir the whites in lightly. Put the butter in 
a hot frying-pan, when this is boiling hot, pour in the eggs and 
add the oysters. Do not stir, but with a broad bladed knife, lift, 
as the egg thickens the omelet from the pan to prevent its scorch- 
ing. In six minutes it will be done. Place a hot dish bottom up- 
ward over the omelet and dexterously turn the pan over so that 
the brown side of the omelet may be brought uppermost. Delicious. 
Pickled Oysters. — Drain off the liquor from 100 oysters, 
rinse them, and add to them 1 tablespoonful of salt and 1 teacup- 
ful of vinegar. Let them simmer over the fire ten minutes, skim- 
ming carefully. Then take out the oysters and put to their own 
liquor a tablespoonful of whole black pepper and 1 teaspoonful of 
mace and cloves. Let it boil five minutes, skim and pour over the 
oysters. 



FISH. 53 

Mock Oysters. — Chicken, veal or turkey can be chopped, 
enough broth or milk added to moisten well, seasoned and prepared 

as stock to use in place of oysters. 

Clam Fritters. (See Fritters). 
Clam Soup. (See Soup). 

Clams on Toast- 
Wash the clams and put them in a kettle with just enough 
water to prevent scorching. Heat them until the shells open. 
Remove the clams, being careful to save the liquor, and heat them 
in part of the liquor seasoned with salt, pepper and butter. If 
too strong, put in half as much cream or rich milk. Toast bread 
carefully, moisten in the remainder of the clam liquor, previously 
heated and slightly seasoned for the purpose ; butter liberally and 
pour the clams over this. Before the milk is added it will be ne- 
cessary to boil them gently for a half or three quarters of an hour. 
Clam Stew may be prepared in the same manner, using all of 
the clam liquor and some water. Thicken slightly and use a good- 
ly quantity of butter. 
Clam Chowder. — 

1 quart of clams with juice. 
3 potatoes, shced. 

2 onions, sliced. 

2 tablespoonfuls pork, chopped fine. 



pound of butter. 



Salt, pepper and mace to suit. 
1 teaspoonful of celery seed. 

Pour on boiling water to cover. Boil three hours, add 1 
quart of milk, boil one hour, put in 4 large crackers, powdered. 
Sliced lemon may be served with this. Some chop the clams fine. 

Deviled- Clams in the Shell. — To 50 clams chopped fine, 
take two tomatoes, 1 onion chopped, a little parsley, salt and pep- 
per to taste, 1 teacupful of bread-crumbs and enough of the clam 
liquor to moisten the ingredients. Wash the shells carefully, and 
fill with the mixture, rounding slightly. Put a lump of butter in 
each nnd arrange the shells in a dripping-pan, cover the top of 
each with crumbs and bake until browned. 

Broiled Clams. — Very large long clams may be removed 



54 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

from the shell, clipped in flour and fried on a well-greased grid- 
iron. 

Fried Clams. — The largest clams may be rolled in bread 
crumbs and fried in fresh hot lard. 

Hot Crab. — Pick the meat out of the crab, clear the shell 
from the head. Put the meat with a little salt, pepper and nut- 
meg and butter, a few bread-crumbs and a little vinegar into the 
shell again Place in the oven, let it heat through, remove and 
brown by holding a hot shovel over it. 

Lobster Croquettes. (See Croquettes). 

For Lobster Salad (See Salads). 

Lobsters Boiled. — To choose lobster see hints on marketing. 
Put the lobster in boiling water head first, let it boil from half to 
three quarters of an hour according to its size. For every 4 pounds 
of lobster add ^ teacupful of salt to the water. When done and 
cool, crack the shell, break off the claws and remove the meat care- 
fully to the dish upon which it is to be served, extracting all the 
blue veins. Serve warm with a sauce, or cold as a relish. 

Lobster Relish. — Take a cold boiled lobster, heat over a 
moderate fire. Prepare a sauce of equal parts of water and vine- 
gar seasoned well with pepper, salt and butter, pour this over the 
lobster, let it boil up and serve immediately. 

Lobster Curry. — Lobsters, chickens and pigeons are excellent 
for curries. Fry a slice of pork brown in a sauce-pan, take up 
and add the cooked lobster, picked up nicely. Let it brown, put in 
a little boiliiig water, (if to be a chicken curry, take the soup in- 
stead). Add 1 teaspoonful of curry powder, and the fried i^ork, let 
it stew a few minutes. Mix 1 teacupful of boiled rice (hot), with 1 
teaspoonful of curry powder, and turn over the curry. 

Scalloped Lobsters. — Chop the boiled lobster meat fine, sea- 
son highly with pepper, salt, butter and cutsup, put in 1 table- 
sijoonful of vinegar, moisten still further with milk ; heat the mix- 
tm-e and bake in a buttered dish with bread-crumbs sprinkled over 
the top. 



^~W*EE Marketing with regard to game. Read also the direc- 
•^^^ tions for the preparation of feathered game and the hints 
J^—^ on Meats. 

Game at some seasons of the year is as cheap as other meat, 
is easily digested and healthful, hence desirable. 

Game Birds. — Use as little water as possible in dressing game 
birds. It would be well if they could be dressed without wash- 
ing. Draw them; wipe carefully with a dry cloth. 

Venison should be only wiped. 

Game (the four-footed variety) — with beef and mutton, are all 
better a little rare than well done, but this must be regulated ac- 
cording to the taste. There can be no arbitrary rule. 

Game should never be kept any longer than beef or fowl. 
"While both of these are better if kept a short time, it is only 
the most pronounced epicures that insist upon the condition termed 
" high." 

Larding, when it can be used to an advantage, renders such 
dry game as venison, grouse, quail and partridge more palatable. 
A sauce also should be served with them. Ducks are so rich that 
this is hardly necessary. 

Currant Jelly, melted, is prefen-ed by many as the most ap- 
propriate sauce for venison. It is also used for mutton. 

The terms, "larding" and "basting" will be found explained in 
" Hints on Meats." 

Haunch or Saddle of Venison— To Roast.— Wash the 
surface with lukewarm vinegar and water (it should have hung at 
least a week in a cool place) and rub with butter to soften it. 
Cover with greased paper tied on ; over this a paste of flour 

(55) 



56 THREE MEALvS A DAY. 

and water, rolled out at least one-half inch thick, may be spread, 
and the whole covered with another greased paper fastened se- 
curely. Fifteen minutes to the pound is the rule followed where 
it is preferred rare. More time is required, according to the size, 
to have it well done. Pour a pint of boiling water around the 
meat and cover with another dripping-pan. The oven should be 
hot. After the first hour, baste thoroughly at short intervals, re- 
covering the pan after each time. Half an hour before dinner 
uncover the pan, remove the papers and paste, return to the oven, 
and baste with melted butter and a little lemon juice; dredge flour 
over the whole and let it brown. Eepeat the basting with butter 
two or three times during the half -hour, and take up on a heated 
dish. The plates should be heated also, as venison cools easily. 
Serve with currant jelly and the following sauce. 

Jelly Sauce for Venison. — Strain the gravy into the pan — 
there should be at least 1 pint. Thicken with 1 tablespoonful of 
browned flour; add 2 tablespoonfuls of currant jelly; 1 table- 
spoonful of lemon juice, if convenient; | teaspoonful of salt; ^ 
teaspoonful pepper. The neck or shoulder of venison may be 
roasted without paper or flour paste. 

Larded Venison. — This is a very nice dish to serve the day 
after the roast venison. Take whatever may be left of the haunch ; 
trim nicely in shape (if it was quite rare the day before so much the 
better now.) Make incisions in the venison and proceed to lard it 
with small strips of fat salt pork. Put in a dripping-pan, pour over 
it the remaining gravy from the day before, using, if none remain, 
a cup of boiling water in which a spoonful of butter has been dis- 
solved, cover the pan and bake one hour in a good oven. While 
baking, take the trimmings of the haunch, cover with cold water 
and boil down one-half, adding ^ an onion, and to ^ pint add 1 
tablespoonful of jelly (currant), 1 tablespoonful of tomato catsup. 
Salt and pepper to taste, thicken with browned flour, and baste the 
meat with this two or three times. Serve on p. heated dish; the 
gravy should be placed in a separate dish. 

Venison Pie or Pasty.— Inferior cuts may be used for the 
pasty. Cut the meat in pieces, fat and lean together. Cover the 
bottom and sides of a deep baking dish with a thick rich paste, put 



GAME. 57 

in the meat seasoning with pepper and salt. Prepare a gravy by 
stewing the bones (well broken) and all the trimmings from the 
meat in water enough to cover until the juices are extracted. Strain, 
thicken slightly with flour, season with pepper and salt; pour this 
into the pie. Dot the top with bits of butter rolled in flour and 
cover the whole with a crust rolled thick. Leave an opening for 
the escape of steam. Some cooks add elaborate decorations of 
leaves and flowers cut from the paste. It should bake two hours, 
or more if very large. 

Venison Steaks. — Heat the gridiron well, butter the bars and 
lay on the steaks, which should be cut from the neck or haunch. 
Broil thoroughly; venison requires more cooking than beef — saving 
all of the gravy possible. Serve with currant jelly laid on each 
piece. Heat the plates. 

Venison steaks may be fried also, and sei-ved with a very little 
melted butter and jelly. Two tablespoonfuls of currant jelly 
melted with butter the size of a walnut, is a very nice sauce. 

Venison Stew. — The most inferior cuts will answer. Cut the 
meat to cook in small pieces; cover with water and boil two hours, 
adding more boiling water, if necessary. Season; thicken the 
gravy with browned flour and serve. 

Venison Hash. — Cut the meat in small pieces. To the gravy 
left from the day before add sufficient boiling water to cover the 
quantity of meat; season with pepper, salt, a few bits of butter 
rolled in flour; put in the sliced meat, let it boil up; stir in a 
couple of tablespoonfuls of currant jelly and serve. 

Venison Rib Roast. — Have the bones removed from 2 or 3 
ribs of venison, roll in a thin slice of salt pork, tie tightly in 
shape, season, dredge with flour and roast. Serve with spiced cur- 
rants or gooseberry catsup. 

Rabbit Roasted. — Skin, clean, lay in salt water while pre- 
paring the following dressing : Mince a slice of fat salt pork and 
mix with sufficient moistened bread-crumbs to fill the cavity, season- 
ing it with pepper, salt and thyme. Some add a little minced onion. 
Stuff the rabbit with this, sew up closely. Cover with thin slices of 
salt pork, bound on with cords or fastened with skewers. Pour a 
cup of water in the pan and bake an hour, basting frequently, ad- 



58 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

ding a little lemon juice or vinegar to the drippings. Dredge with 
flour; hrown and remove from the oven. Serve on a hot platter, re- 
moving the slices of pork and garnishing the edge of the platter 
with them. Thicken the strained gravy with browned flour and 
season with butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice or a little 
vinegar, pepper and salt to taste. Let it boil up, then serve. If 
pork is not used in roasting, rub the rabbit with butter well before 
putting in the oven, and pour melted butter over it when served, 
garnishing with sliced lemons and greens. 

Rabbit Fried. — Skin, disjoint and wipe the rabbit perfectly 
dry. Fry the same as chicken, parboiling unless perfectly tender. 
They may be dipped in flour before frying. 

Rabbit Pio. — Make same as Chicken Pie. (See directions.) 

Rabbit Stew. — Prepare same as venison; boiling until tender 
and serving in the same fashion. Some like a little minced onion 
added to the gravy. Add also a little butter to the gravy if 
necessary. 

Rabbits Fricasseed. — Disjoint and put in a stew-pan, sea- 
soning with Cayenne pepper, chopped parsley and a little salt. 
Cover with a pint of hot water and stew slowly. When nearly 
done add some bits of butter rolled in flour. Before removing 
from the fire pour in half a small teacup of thin cream or rich 
milk. Serve the meat in a hot diili ; pour the gravy over it. 

Squirrel Pot-Pie. — Skin, clean and cut up two squirrels and 
make the pot-pie after any favored rule for chicken pot-pie. 
(See Poultry.) 

Squirrels — Fricasseed, Stewed or Fried. — Prepare squir- 
rels for these dishes by the rules given for Rabbits. Serve with 
currant jam or jelly. 

Opossum Fried. — Dress carefully, parboil, season with salt 
and red pepper. Take up and slice in rather thin slices, dip in 
a batter and fry in lard or opossum fat until done. 

Batter. — 1 egg, 1 cup milk or water, pinch of salt and a 
pinch of soda, flour to make a thin batter. Any of this batter 
that is left may be fried with the meat ; serve together. 

Opossum Roasted. — To roast opossum parboil, season with 
salt and pepper, chop the liver fine, to which add bread-crumbs, 1 



GAME. 59 

onion minced, a little parsley; moisten with water and use as force- 
meat. While roasting pour a little hot water in with the drippings 
and baste frequently. Serve with gooseberry catsup or spiced cher- 
ries and a gravy made by thinning the liquor in the pan with boil- 
ing water, if necessary, and thickening with browned flour. Some 
prefer apple sauce to serve with opossum, and it may be gar- 
nished with fried apples in circular slices, or served whole with a 
roast apple in the mouth, if so liked. The apple stuffing given 
for ducks is very nice to use. For the apple sauce see Poultry. 

Woodchucks or Raccoons. — Either of these animals are 
roasted usually and can be prepared in the same manner as 
opossum, not forgetting to parboil first. The stuffing can be 
omitted, but it is nicer with forcemeat. 

Peinmican. — Venison, buffalo and beef, are the meats most in 
favor for the manufacture of pemmican. Carefully separate the lean 
from the fat and dry the lean in the sun. This is called "jerked beef." 
It is cut in thin slices before drying. When dry it is pounded or 
minced and mixed with melted fat and sometimes dried fruit and 
compressed into bags. It contains much nutriment and is much 
in use by travelers on the plains. Explorers around Hudson Bay 
prepare pemmican by adding sugar to the melted fat and by stir- 
ring in with the meat a goodly quantity of wild berries or cherries. 
This serves instead of jelly. It can be pressed in jars also. It is 
eaten uncooked, or it may be served like sausage, or prepared in 
the form of a stew. It is very palatable and nutritious. 

Frog Oil Toast. — The hindquarters or saddle of the frog is 
used for food. After dressing, let it lie in cold water until wanted. 
When ready to cook, first roll in flour, then dip in beaten egg^ 
then in rolled crackers and fry six or eight minutes in hot lard. 
Cut large square slices of buttered toast across diagonally, arrange 
them down the middle of a large dish with a saddle on each piece, 
and decorate each side of the dish with sliced lemons and par-sley. 

Squab Pie.— 

6 squabs. 

4 tablespoonfuls butter. 

1 quart broth or water. 

Scald the squabs, pick, singe and draw. Cut down the back 



6o THREE MEALS A DAY. 

first like chickens for broiling, then cut in halves, wash and wipe 
diy. Kub each piece with pepper and salt and roll in flour and 
fry slightly in melted butter. Arrange them in a deep baking 
dish, pour in the broth or water and stew in the oven until tender. 
Then season the liquor and thicken slightly, if necessary; cover 
with a good pie crust and bake twenty minutes, leaving an opening 
in the crust for the escape of steam. The crust should be kept 
well out of the liquor while baking. An inverted cup set in the 
center of the dish will support it. 

Mallard Duck. — Singe, draw, wipe out and stuff. Tie the 
wings and legs down to the side with twine and bake in a hot oven 
from thirty to forty minutes. If the oven is cool it draws the 
juices out too much. It may be allov/ed to cool somewhat toward 
the last. Baste frequently with fat from the pan. Make force- 
meat as follows : 

1 quart of bread-crumbs. 

1 tablespoonful minced onions. 

1 teaspoonful each of pepper, salt and sage, 

1 egg. 

^ cup of warm water. 

2 tablespoonfuls sausage dripping, or butter. 

Mix these ingredients, moistening with the egg and water. It 
will absorb enough gravy in baking to render it moist. 

Pigeons Roasted. — Dress and stuff with bread-crumbs sea- 
soned with butter, salt and a little mace, adding 3 oysters to each 
bird; sew up and baste frequently with melted butter; roast ^ 
hour carefully. Some prefer the apple stuffing. Pigeons to be 
roasted should be tender. Lay them on the dish in a row. 

Pigeons Stewed. — Dress and stuff as above or use a turkey 
dressing ; put them in a stew-pan with the breast down ; turn in 
more than enough water to cover them; when stewed nearly 
tender put in ^ cup of butter to every 12 pigeons ; thicken the 
gravy with 2 or 3 teaspoonfuls of browned flour rubbed smooth in 
a little cold water. If wished brown, take up when tender and fry 
brown in pork dripping. Arrange on a platter and pour the 
gravy over. 

Pigeon Pie. — Prepare the pigeons, cut in 4 pieces and par- 



GAME. 6l 

boil; line a baking dish with rich paste and fill in with the 
pigeons, mixing with bits of bacon or salt pork; season with a 
little parsley and enrich with butter cut in bits; dredge with flour 
and pour in the water they were parboiled in. Cover with the 
paste, leaving an opening for the escape of steam. Bake one hour. 

Quail on Toast. — Dress carefully, removing the feathers with- 
out scalding. Split down the back, put in salt water for a time, 
then dry, butter carefully, season with pepper and salt and broil on 
a gridiron, turning frequently. When done butter well and serve 
on hot buttered toast, a quail, breast up, on each slice. Serve on 
a hot dish. Garnish with currant jelly. 

Quail Pie. — Prepare and cook same as Pigeon Pie. Some 
cooks leave the quail whole and stuff. Use the same stuffing as 
for Roasted Pigeons. Slices of hard-boiled egg may be added. 

Woodcock Broiled. — Dress, split down the back and broil on 
a well-buttered gridiron, cooking slowly until a delicate brown; 
season with salt, pepper and butter. Serve with buttered toast, h 
a bird on each slice. 

Woodcock Baked or Roasled. — Prepare as for broiling and 
roast in the oven, basting with butter, or draw and stufif with well 
seasoned bread-crumbs mixed with melted butter and beaten egg. 

Prairie Chickens Baked or Roasted.— Prepare the same as 
for Roasted Pigeons, omitting the oysters from the stuffing and 
adding chopped parsley and summer savory. Moisten the dressing 
with melted butter and pour a very little water in the dripping-pan ; 
baste with melted butter; cook one hour unless the bird is very 
tough. They may be split open down the back and baked without 
stuffing, same as woodcock. 

Partridge Pie. — Make the same as Pigeon Pie. Loosen the 
joints, but do not dismember. If desired the top-crust may be 
ornamented same as Venison Pasty. 

Plover and Snipe. — Dress, wipe carefully, season and lay 
each bird on a shce of toast (buttered). Arrange them in a drip- 
ping-pan, dredge with flour, put in the oven and roast briskly 
thirty minutes, basting frequently with melted butter. Serve. A 
brown gravy is best with this. 

Reed Birds, Rail Birds and Ortolans.— Stuff and roast 



62 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

same as Pigeons, or broil and serve on toast same as Quail or 
Woodcook. Ten minutes is sufficient to cook them usually. 

Roast Wild Duck. — Parboil with an onion in each to remove 
the fishy flavor. Use a carrot unless there is to be onion in the 
dressing. Stuff with any of the dressings used for tame ducks and 
roast until tender, basting at first with melted butter and then with 
the gravy in the pan. Weaken the pan gravy with boiling water, 
thicken with browned flour and stir in 1 tablespoonful of currant 
jelly. Serve separately. 

Roast Wild Turkey. — Dress carefully. Make forcemeat of 
bread-crumbs mixed with finely chopped salt pork and seasoned 
with salt, pepper, parsley and 1 tablespoonful of butter melted. 
Moisten the whole with milk. Sew up and roast, basting with 
butter and water at first, then with the pan-gravy; at last baste a 
few times with melted butter on account of the dryness of the 
meat. Dredge with flour, let it brown and serve. Weaken the 
pan gravy with hot water, thicken with browned flour and giblets 
(previously boiled). Garnish the edge of platter with link sausage 
roasted in the pan or tiny fried sausages the size of a dollar, alterna- 
ting with parsley. Serve cranberry jelly witli it. 

Gaiue Pie. — This may be made of one variety of bird or a 
mixture of grouse, pheasants, quail and partridges. Dress the 
birds- and cut in j)ieces. Trim off the necks, lower ribs, etc. 
Put the giblets in 1^ pints of water for 6 birds; let them stew; 
make a good puff paste, line a deep baking dish with this; make a 
forcemeat same as for Wild Turkey. Add to it the chopped gib- 
lets; lay some thin slices of salt pork in the bottom of the dish, 
then a layer of the birds ; fill the pie in this manner. Pour in 
the gravy from the giblets while hot, cover with the upper crust, 
which should be ^ inch thick with an opening for the escape of 
steam. For a large pie bake three hours; cover with a heavy 
paper if it browns too fast. 

Terrapin. — Put the terrapin in boiling water ; when perfectly 
lifeless take out and remove the outer skin and nails. Boil in 
salted water until perfectly tender. Then remove shells, sandbag 
and gall. Cut the meat in small pieces and put in a sauce-pan 
(save aU the juices) with butter, pepper (red and black) salt and 



GAME. 63 

the hard-boiled yolk of an egg rubbed smooth. Let it boil up, 
stir in 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls of cream and a few bread-crumbs and 
serve on toast. 

Stewed Hare. — Cut in pieces, put in a saucepan, barely cov- 
ering with soup stock or clear broth. Add to this 1 large onion, 
chopped, a few blades of mace, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce 
and the juice of half a lemon. Season with salt and pepper, cover 
closely and let stew two hours ; if necessary add a little more broth 
before removing from the fire. Arrange the meat in a soup tureen; 
thicken the sauce with a teaspoonful of butter rolled in browned 
flour; pour into the dish through a sieve. 

Broiled Birds. — Small birds are exceedingly nice to broil. 
Pigeons, partridges and other birds of a like size have a more de- 
licious flavor when prepared in this manner. 

Dress ; divide the birds in half ; butter the gridiron (a double 
wire gridiron is best) and broil carefully, so that both sides are a 
delicate brown. Watch that they do not burn. Place on a hot plat- 
ter, put a bit of sweet butter on each piece and serve at once. 
Serve with buttered dry toast. 

Smothered Birds.— Prepare as for broiling. Put in boihng 
water for ten minutes. Kemove, arrange in a baking-pan and 
season highly with pepper and salt, putting a lump of butter on 
each bird. Pour in the pan a little water, to which has been added 
enough vinegar to give it a slightly sour taste. Dredge the whole 
slightly with flour; cover with another pan and bake until done. 




F01£lf«T^^Y. 



BOWLS are better if killed the day before using; and during 
the winter months, keeping a longer time is an improve- 
ment. 

All kinds of poultry and meat can be cooked quicker by add- 
ing to the water, in which they are boiled, a little vinegar, or 
piece of lemon; a piece of soda (baking) the size of a pea 
will answer the same purpose. A tainted fowl will loose the bad 
taste, or odor, if cooked in this manner; if not used too freely no 
taste will be acquired. One tablespoouful of vinegar will usually 
prove sufficient. 

A FOWL to be stewed should be dropped in cold water; this 
extracts the juices and renders the gravy richer. To be boiled 
whole and preserve the juices, it should be put in boiling water. 

A LUMP of charcoal put inside a dressed fowl will preserve it 
fresh. Packers would do well to r< member this. 

' Half a tea cup of rice boiled with chickens makes them look 
white. 

A LiTTLR SALT PORK boilcd with chickeus improves the flavor 
for many. If pork is used no salt is required. 

The giblets of a fowl are the neck, pinions, gizzard, heart and 
liver; to this list some cooks add the head and feet. 

Lard rubbed over a fowl that is j^repared for roasting, or thin 
shces of fat pork laid on the upper part, will prevent burning. 

Chickens only should be scalded; other fowls and game should 
be picked dry until the feathers are removed except the down. 
Pour boiling water over them; this will swell the fowl when the 
down can be rubbed off. Kolling up first in a piece of old blanket 
for ten minutes will help somewhat. The hair may be singed with 
a burning paper. 

(64) 



POULTRY. 65 

To TRUSS a fowl is simply to tie or skewer the legs and wings 
down to the body for convenience in roasting. 

Hen turkeys should always be used for boiling as the flesh is 
whiter and more delicate. 

To Dress and Cut up Poultry. — After picking and singe- 
ing make an incision at the lower part of the breast bone. Cut off 
the oil bag and remove the entrails, carefully preserving the gib- 
lets. Eemove the gall bag from the liver with great care. Make 
an incision through the thick part and first lining of the gizzard, 
peeling off the fleshy part. Clean the heart and throw all into 
slightly salted water. Cut off the feet at the first joint, cut a slit 
in the neck and take out the wind-pipe and crop; then wash the 
fowl carefidly inside, rinsing in salt water is desirable. 

To cut up a chicken or other fowl after drawing, cut off the 
wings and legs at the joint that unites them to the body. Separate 
the joints of the legs and wings. Extend the incision at the lower 
part of the breast bone, then with the left hand hold the breast of 
the chicken, and with the right bend back the rump until the joint 
in the back separates. Cut the piece clear and put in water. 
Separate the back and breast, cutting downward toward the head 
and tikiug off the breast with the "merry thought" or "wish- 
bone." Cut the neck free from the back. The breast may be 
divided through the center, and each side cut in two or more pieces 
according to the size of the fowl. 

How (0 Bone Fowls. —Singe and pick a fat young turkey. 
This is the easiest fowl to bone. Tlien cut through the skin the 
whole length of the back with a sharp-pointed knife. Go on cut- 
ting the meat from the bone on both sides until the hip and wing 
joints are reached. Chop through these, dividing the legs and 
wings from the body. Coiiiinue cutting close to the breast bone, 
prdling out the back bone as soon as it is free. Take out the 
entrails, reserving the giblets. On the ridge of the breast bone 
cut carefully to avoid breaking the skin, even leaving a bit of the 
edge of the bone. Afterward bone the first joint of the wings and 
legs, removing the rest. Tuck the meat of these into the body, 
which, when stuffed, must be well rounded. Wash and dry on a 
towel. Spread out flat, outside down and fill with an ordinary 
5 



66 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

dressing of bread-crumbs, together with the chopped giblets ; add- 
ing a little chopped celery. Season with salt, pepper and marjoram, 
or any other sweet herb. Mix with a little melted butter. Draw 
the two sides together and sew with twiue, filling out carefully as 
you close the body. A boned fowl is sometimes roasted, but the 
better way is to fasten securely in a pudding cloth and boil 2 or 3 
hours in salted broth, to which the boues and rejected joints of 
fowl have been added. Let it cool in tliis liquor. Remove and 
press beneath a weight. To serve, take off the cloth, pull out the 
threads and slice carefully. Currant or other jelly cut in squares 
may be put on each slice. 

Boned Fowls with Forcemeat.— Proceed with the chicken 
or turkey as above, making forcemeat that will equal about f of the 
fowl in weight. 

Lean veal is used for the body of the forcemeat; chop fine and 
season with i pound of fat salt pork. Add 1 cupful of bread- 
crumbs, season with pepper and salt and mix with well-beaten eggs 
in the proportion of 1 raw egg to 1 pound of the dressing. Moist- 
en still farther with 1 cupful of broth, (water may be substituted). 
Stufif, sew up and boil in the salted broth as before. Cool and 
press as above, slice thinly and arrange on a platter, ornamenting 
each slice with variously colored jellies. 

For a very extra occasion this forcemeat may be composed of 
the meat of 2 chickens for an ordinary sized turkey. Boil the 
chickens. Separate the dark and light meat carefully. Chop both. 
Combine the white meat with the bread, egg and other ingredients 
as above. Lay the turkey upon the table, skinside down as be- 
fore. Strew half of the dark mincemeat over, then half the white 
forcemeat. Then the rest of the dark meat, finishing with the re- 
maining white forcemeat. Do up the turkey as directed in the 
preceding rules. When pressed and cooled the slices will be in 
colored layers, thus making a very delicate and ornamental dish. 
Garnish the outer edges ot the platter with colored jellies. 

Roast Turkey. — New England Fashion. — Pick, singe to 
free from pin feathers, draw, (see directions), wash and dry. After 
this dip the turkey two seconds into boiling water, and then two 
seconds into ice water; this makes it very plump in appear- 



POULTRY. 67 

ance. Cut the neck off close to the body, leave the skin longer, 
draw over and tie, skewer the legs close to the sides after removing 
the first joint. Fasten the wings to the sides in the same manner, 
first cutting away the pinions (or first joints). Put the giblets to 
boil in a quart of water. Allow one and one fourth hours to roast a 
turkey weighing 10 pounds. If at all tough boil an hour or more 
before roasting. Some cooks parboil even a young turkey before 
baking. A little water will be needed in the pan. Baste with salt 
and water once, then cover with lumps of butter, and afterward 
baste with the drippings. Some cooks prefer to lay slices of ba- 
con or fat pork over the fowl, fastening them down with small 
skewers. When nearly done, dredge with flour and baste with 
melted butter. Stuff with the following forcemeat. 
Forcemeat for Turkey. — 

3 pints of bread crumbs. 

1 pound of salt pork, chopped. 
Butter size of an egg. 

Salt, pepper, sweet marjoram, savory, or sage. 

2 eggs, well beaten. 

A little chopped celery is an improvement ; the eggs may be 
omitted and melted butter used to moisture the dressing. Mix 
thorouglily before using. Sew up. 

Oyster Dressing. — Oyster sauce is very nice served with the 
fowl, cranberries also as a matter of course; rich mashed potatoes 
are sometimes used as a dressing. 

Giblet (jlravy for Turkey. — Having boiled the giblets in a 
quart of water until tender, strain the broth into the dripping- 
pan, having removed the turkey. Take the liver, mash fine and 
return to the gravy, chop heart and gizzard very fine and 
add; thicken with browned flour, stir and season well. Boil five 
minutes. 

When the turkey is rather small for a dinner, it can be deli- 
ciously pieced out by a few strings of sausage inturned and roasted 
with it. This is called in England, "the alderman in chains." 

Link sausage makes a very suitable garnish for turkey. Pars- 
ley or curled lettuce may be interspersed around the edge of the 
platter. 



68 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Turkey Dressed with Oysters.— For a 10 pound turkey 
take 

2 pints of bread crumbs. 

^ teacupful of butter, cut in bits. 

3 tablespoonfuls of hot water. 

1 teaspoonful of powdered thyme. 

Pepper and salt to taste. 

1 quart of oysters, well drained. 

Mix these ingredients thoroughly, except the oysters. Rub 
the turkey well, inside and out, with salt and pepper, then fill with 
a spoonful of the dressing, a few oysters, then dressing, alternat- 
ing with the oysters until stuffed. Strain the oyster liquor and 
use to baste the turkey. Cook the giblets in the pan with a very 
little water and chop them fine. Add sufficient water and browned 
flour for thickening. A fowl of this size will require three hours 
in a moderate oven. Garnish as for roast turkey. Serve with 
cranberry sauce and vegetables. 

Boiled Turkey. — A turkey for boiling should be prepared as 
for roasting, stuffed and carefully tied in a cloth. This will ensure 
the whiteness of the meat. Boiling a cup of rice with it has some- 
ihing the same effect. A pound of salt pork cooked with it im- 
proves the flavor somewhat. Season the broth rather highly with 
salt, pepper and sweet marjoram, skim well while boiling. Oyster 
sauce or drawn butter may be served with it. A very nice broth 
may be made of the liquor the turkey is boiled in. Let it remain 
until the next day, remove the fat and serve plain, or prepare after 
some recipe for chicken soup. The turkey should be boiled slowly 
and for a young fowl of about 9 pounds, one hour and a half is 
sufficient. 

Turkey Scallop. — A delicious scallop can be made from the 
fragments of cold turkey, by chopping fine and placing a layer of 
bread-crumbs in the bottom of a buttered pudding, dish, then a 
layer of turkey, adding any cold dressing that may be left. Have 
ready 3 or 4 hard-boiled eggs, slice and add a few slices to each 
layer of the turkey. Alternate the layers of meat and crumbs, 
adding bits of butter and seasoning to each, and arrange that the 
last layer be of crumbs. Dot bits of butter over the top. Thin 



POULTRY. 69 

with hot water or milk what gravy may be left and pour over it. 
Milk alone, or even water with a tablespoonful of melted butter, 
may be used. Cover the dish and bake half an hour. A few min- 
utes before serving, remove the cover and let the scallop brown. 

Sliced egg will improve the appearance of the dish. 

Roast Chicken. — Prepare and stuff the same as for roast tur- 
key. 

Boiled Chicken. — Prepare the same as boiled turkey. 

Chicken Fricassee. — Cut the fowl up according to direc- 
tions. Wash in salt water. Place in cold water enough to cover. 
Stew until the meat is very tender, and the liqour nearly boiled 
out. For 2 chickens, ^ pound of salt pork, cut in thin strips 
will be found an improvement. Eub flour smooth in cold milk, 
add this to 1 cupful of milk, pour into the gravy, let it boil three 
or four minutes. Season to suit and serve. The milk may be 
omitted, and a sufficient quantity of the liquor that the fowl is 
boiled in, can be left and seasoned and thickened to pour over the 
chicken. When nearly done make and bake the following : 1 pint 
of flour, 1 teaspoonful each of salt and good baking powder, and 
1 spoonful of dripping. Kub these ingredients well together and 
stir up with milk or water to a consistency to roll out thin. Cross 
off in four inch squares with a knife and bake half an hour to a 
good color. When done break it up in the squares marked (it 
should never be cut while hot), split open the pieces and lay them, 
crust down, on a platter; on this put the chicken. 

Chicken Scallop. — This dish offers the best means of serving 
an old and tough fowl. Disjoint the fowl and boil slowly, until 
perfectly tender. Remove and cut the meat from the bones in 
small pieces. Take 1 cupful of the broth, thicken slightly with 
flour, add a tablespoonful of butter, season with salt, pepper and 
chopped parsley, and stir in 1 well-beaten egg. Butter a pudding 
dish, cover the bottom with a quantity of bread-crumbs, add the 
meat and gravy, and cover the whole with a layer of bread-crumbs, 
add bits of butter and bake half an hour. A few slices of hard- 
boiled egg improves the appearance of this dish. 

Chicken Pie. — Take a pair of fat chickens ; prepare and dis- 
joint them. Put in a stew-pan and season highly with salt, blach 



70 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

pepper and a little Cayenne ; dredge in a little flour, and cover well 
with cold water; stew over a slow fire three quarters of an hour. Line 
the sides of a deep baking dish with a nice crust. Lay the chicken in 
the dish, removiug the largest bones. Pour in half the gravy, 
dredge lightly with flour, and add a few bits of butter. KoU out 
the upper crust, cover carefully, being sure to leave an opening in 
the top. Bake in a quick oven about an hour. Before sending to 
table pour in the remainder of the hot gravy. 

This pie is equally good made of cold chicken. Put the meat 
in layers, dredging flour and seasoning over each. Pour in some 
of the broth or gravy in which the fowl was cooked. Line the dish 
with paste and cover as before. Add bits of butter before putting 
on the crust. 

Chicken Pie with Oysters. — Prepare the pie as above, using 
a rich paste, adding raw oysters to each layer of chicken. Pour 
over all the chicken gravy or broth, dredge with flour, dot liberally 
with butter, add a little of the strained oyster liquor, cover, and 
bake one hour. For a plain pie use a nice biscuit dough. 

Chicken Corn Pie.— Dress, wash and joint a fowl as for 
chicken pie. Stew and season in the same manner. Take the 
kernels from 12 ears of sweet corn, put a layer of it in a pan, then 
a layer of chicken, alternate thus until all is used; season each 
layer with pepper, salt and bits of butter. Let the last layer be of 
corn. Lastly, pour on the broth or gravy in. which the fowl was 
cooked. Bake thirty or forty minutes. 

Chicken Pot Pie. — Cut up the chicken as for chicken pie, 
put it in a kettle, cover it with water, add a little salt, and 
boil until done; have ready a light biscuit dough, cut in squares, 
lay it on top of the chicken, cover tightly and boil thirty minutes 
without lifting the cover or allowing the boiling to cease. Lay 
the chicken in a deep dish, removing the largest bones. Cover 
with the crust, season and thicken the gravy and pour over it. 

Pot Pie Crast.— 

1 teacupful of flour. 

1 teaspoonful of baking powder. 

^ teaspoonful of salt. 

Mix with sweet milk to a soft batter that will readily drop 



POULTRY. 71 

from the spoon. Butter a pudding dish or a basin, pour it in and 
steam one hour. When done, break apart with a fork and pour 
the gravy over it on a platter. If a larger quantity is required, 
double the amount and cook twice as long. Pot-pie made in this 
manner is perfectly wholesome. This rule is applicable to veal, 
venison or other pot-pies. 

Cold biscuit may be utilized as pot pie. Heat and soften 
thoroughly in the hot broth, arrange on a platter with the chicken, 
or any other variety of meat that may be used, and pour the gravy 
over all. These have the merit of being always light and digesti- 
ble. 

Potato Pot-Pie Crust. — Boil 8 or 9 small potatoes ; peel and 
mash fine. Mix with a piece of butter the size of a hen's egg. 1 
teaspoonful of salt, 1 cupful of sweet milk, and flour enough to 
roll out; roll, cut in cakes and put over the meat. Let boil stead- 
ily thirty minutes without removing the cover. 

Chicken Stew with Dumplings. — Cut up the fowl according 
to directions. Put over to stew in enough cold waterto cover; three 
hours will be required for a tough fowl. While stewing, throw in 
a tablespoonful of chopped onion, a small piece of pickled pork 
cut fine, 1 teaspoonful of salt, ^ teaspoonful of pepper and a cup- 
ful of milk. Thicken with 2 tablespoonfuls of flour rubbed in 
water. 

Have the egg dumplings made according to rule with Soups. 

Indian Stew. — Cut up and stew a fowl half-done, then add 
a cup of raw rice, a slice of ham chopped fine, pepper and salt. 
Let all cook together until the rice swells and absorbs all the 
gravy of the stewed chicken. Do not allow it to get hard or dry. 
Serve in a deep dish. 

This dish may be made of many kinds of meat. Veal is very 
nice cooked in this way. 

Bailed Chiclcen. — Split a dressed chicken down the back; 
put it in a baking-pan, chicken inside down ; cover with strips of salt 
pork, pepper, salt and bake. It will be found delicious and juicy. 

Dish up ; pour off the fat from the pan gravy ; add a cup of 
milk and let it boil up, when the gravy will be found seasoned and 
thickened for use. 



72 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Broiled Chicken. — Have a hot bed of coals and a well but- 
tered gridiron, uot too near the fire. Split a dressed chicken down 
the backbone and lay it out as flat as possible. Season lightly 
with salt and pepper and broil slowly. Lay a heavy plate with a 
weight upon it, if necessary, to keep the chicken close to the 
gridiron. When nearly done, turn and brown the other side, but- 
tering the upper side. 

It takes one-half hour to broil a chicken properly — sometimes 
longer. It should be liberally seasoned and buttered. 

A young chicken cooked in a hot pan in the oven, without 
water or basting of any kind, cannot be distinguished from 
broiling. Mutton chops are also very nice cooked in the same 
way. 

Fried Chicken. — Joint young chickens, put in cold water. 
When ready to cook remove from the water, dredge with flour and 
fry in hot lard a nice brown. Use butter if preferred. A gravy 
can be made in the pan by pouring either a cup of milk or water 
in the pan, thicken, season, let boil up and serve separately. 

Pickled Chicken. — Boil four chickens until tender enough 
for meat to fall from bones, put meat in a stone jar and pour over 
it 3 pints of cold, good cider vinegar and 1^ pints of the water in 
which the chickens were boiled; add spices if prefen-ed, and it 
will be ready for use in two days. This is a popular Sunday even- 
ing dish ; it is good for luncheon at any time. 

Chicken Patties. — Line small patty-pans with a good puff 
paste. Bake in a brisk oven. Stir minced chicken into a good 
white sauce; heat through, fill the shells and set in an oven to 
brown very slightly before serving. The meat of other fowls and 
veal may be prepared in the same manner. 

Chicken Cheese. — Boil two chickens till tender. Take out 
all the bones and choj) the meat fine; season to taste with salt, 
pepper and butter; pour in enough of the liquor they were boiled 
in to moisten it. Mold it in any shape you choose, and when cold 
turn out and slice. Excellent lunch for traveling. 

For Chicken Salad — See Salads. 

Roast Ducks. — Pick and draw a pair of ducks; wash as 
slightly as possible. 



POULTRY. 73 

To stuff take: 

1 quart of bread-crumbs. 
1 onion minced fine. 

1 teaspoonful each of sage, salt and pepper. 
(2 hard-boiled eggs, chopped, may be added.) 
1 tablespoonf ul of melted butter and 1 of hot water. 
Truss, put in a baking-pan, pour a cup of boiling water over 
them and roast one hour in a quick oven. Baste often, dredging 
toward the last with flour. 

Boil the giblets tender, pour off the fat from the pan gravy, 
thicken with 1 tablespoonful of browned flour; add the chopped 
giblets and salt and pepper to taste. Parboiling before roasting 
will remove the strong taste of ducks. Thin slices of salt pork 
may be fastened over the breast bone while roasting. 

Boned Ducks. — Ducks can be boned and filled in the same 

manner as turkey or chicken. See directions in this chapter. A 

chopped onion, however, must be added to the other ingredients. 

When boiled ducks are used for forcemeat the effect will not 

be as good, for the meat is entirely dark. 

This may be in a measure obviated by the use of stock jellies. 
Chop a cupful of this and spread over the forcemeat just before 
tying up. This will give a mottled appearance to the filling. 

Boned ducks may be served whole, decorated with stock jelly 
cut in various forms, or sliced, by placing a square or jelly on each 
piece. Greens for the edge of the platter. 

Stock Jelly for Meats. — Dissolve one ounce of sheet gela- 
tine in a quart of soup stock. Season with salt, white pepper, 
parsley or celery and the juice of one lemon. Let cool, remove 
the fat, clarify according to recipe and strain through a napkin. 
Color in different tints, with burnt sugar, beet juice, etc. 

This jelly can be used in various ways with boned turkey. 
Melted and poured over cold meats it is very nice. 
Apple Stuffing.— 

1 pint of tart apple sauce. 
1 teacupful of bread-crumbs. 
A little sage, salt and pepper. 
Mix and use to stuff roast duck, goose and some kinds of game. 



74 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Boiled Duck. — Prepare like boiled turkey. This is a very 
nice dish, and is preferred by many to roast duck as a more del- 
icate dish. The broth can be kept until next day, skimmed and 
a very nice soup made. 

Roast Goose. — Dress carefully, truss and parboil for an hour 
or two to remove some of the strong flayor. There are many 
ways of stuffing. The apple stuffing may be used, or one com- 
monly depended upon is made as follows : 

Two moderate-sized onions, boiled rapidly ten minutes ; chop 
finely, mince sage the quantity of half the onion; add powdered 
bread twice as much as onion, or two cupf ils; pepper and salt it, 
introduce a little Cayenne, and bind together with a beaten egg, 
adding a tablespoouful of hot water. Do not stuff closely, but 
leave room for the dressing to swell. If there should be too much 
onion to suit the taste, add another cup of bread-crumbs to the 
stuffing. Secure the openings carefully, that none of the season- 
ing may escape. Roast an hour and three-quarters in a quick 
oven; baste very frequently. Fasten paper over the breast at first 
to prevent scorching. There should be at least two cupfuls of 
water in the dripping-pan. 

To make a rich brown gravy, pour off the fat from the pan 
gravy, add sufficient water, thicken with browned flour, season and 
let it boil. 

Previous to serving a flavoring may be made if desired : 
1 dessert-spoonful of prepared mustard. 
^ teaspoonful of Cayenne, same of salt. 

Mix with 2 wine-glassfuls of the gravy and the juice of half a 
lemon. Make hot, remove the threads from the fowl, and pour 
the flavoring into the opening for forcemeat. 

Serve with hot apple sauce. A giblet gravy may be made, as 
for turkey, if preferred to the above. 

App'e Sauce for Meats. — Pare and slice good tart apples, 
cover and stew one-half hour in water about level with the apples. 
Throw in a little butter. Beat fine at the last. Use no sugar. 

Potato Forcemeat. — Mash potatoes, with cream or 
rich milk. Season highly with butter, Cayenne and salt; mix 
in a teacupful of bread-crumbs to give body to the dressing. Use 



POULTRY. 75 

this for geese or ducks. The bread-crumbs are sometimes 
omitted. 

Sour Roast Duck, (German Style). — Dress the duck nicely. 
Soak twenty-four hours in vinegar. Take 1 tablespoonful butter, 
put in the pan and brown. Stuff the duck, put it in the pan, dredge 
freely with flour, baste often with the butter, salt to taste. 
Sour Sauce for Roast Duck. — 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

1 tablespoonful flour. 

1 onion sliced; cook both in the butter until brown. 

I" teacupful vinegar, 2 bay leaves. 

1 teacupful cream or milk. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Flavor with a bit of lemon peel. 
Let it boil up in the pan ; send to table with the duck. 
Chicken Stew, (Creole Style).— 

3 pullets. 

6 green pepper pods. 

1 onion. 

1 slice of boiled ham. 

1 quart of tomatoes, fresh or canned. 

1 quart of peas, stewed. 
Joint the chickens and stew them together with the peppers, 
ham and onion in enough water to cover them until the meat falls 
from the bones. Remove the chicken to a large dish and keep 
hot. Strain the broth, put the tomatoes in the liquor and stew 
down thick, season with salt. Add the peas while hot. Pour the 
stewed tomato over the chicken, then the peas. 

Chicken or Turkey Cutlets. — Cut slices from the breast of 
a cold fowl (cold veal or any other white meat may be used), dip 
in beaten egg and then in cracker dust, fry to a nice brown in 
melted butter or beef dripping. Cut slices of stale bread in quar- 
ters, dip quickly in hot water, then in the beaten egg, dust with 
the crackers and fry the same as the meat. Send to the table on 
the same or separate dishes as preferred. Garnish the meat with 
bits of parsley. A nice dish for breakfast or luncheon. 



MEM^Z. 



QEATS. — Where meat is tough add a httle vinegar or a 
piece of lemon to the water in which it is boiled. This 
will result in a shortening of time and a saving of fuel, 
while the meat will be rendered more easy of digestion. Also any 
slight taint, that may be about the meat, will be entirely removed 
by this process. 

To MAKE a steak tender rub it over with a small quantity of 
baking soda the day before using. Wash off next morning and 
cook in any way desired. This process will answer for fowls, legs 
of mutton, etc. 

Meat. — If a little tainted sprinkle charcoal over it, or boil it 
with a lump of charcoal in the water. This will make it quite 
fresh again. Game especially can be sweetened by lumps of char- 
coal placed in the interior. Dressed fowls the same. 

Tough meat or fowl is made more tender by putting a pincli 
of baking soda in the water used for boiling. 

SAiiT poEK for frying can be very much improved by slicing 
for use and freshening over night in sweet milk, or milk and water 
can be used half and half. 

Smoked meat may be kept by rubbing molasses over the fleshy 
part and then cover thickly with black pepper. This way cannot 
be excelled. Hams may be kept in the same manner. 

Frozen meat can be thawed by putting in cold water until the 
frost is drawn out. This should be done just before required for 
use. 

In slicing ham rub the cut side with cornmeal. It will 
neither dry nor taint and the meal can be easily rubbed off. 

The steam from a pan of water in the oven will prevent meats 

(7G) 



MEATS. 77 

from scorching. A pod of red pepper put in the water where meat 
is boiling will prevent the odor from filling the house. 

Tin covers made to fit the baking-pan and high enough to 
admit the roast are very desirable. Meat is much nicer roasted in 
this way. 

Salt meat should be put over in cold water. 

Meat for soup should be put in cold water, heated gradually 
and boiled slowly. Do not skim for beef tea. 

Meat for boihng or stewing should be plunged into boiling 
salted water and boiled ten minutes. Take it out and add fresh 
water; boil slowly, as fast boiling hardens meat. 

Stewing meat is an economical method, as it does not require 
much fire, and coarse and cheap meats cooked in this way with or 
without vegetables may be made tender and nutritious. 

Terms used in cookery : 

Braisinr/ — That is, slow roasting in a closely covered pan will 
subdue the obstinate fiber and retain all the juices of the meat. 
Pans come expressly for this purpose, but any ordinary deep pan 
with a cover can be used instead. 

Larding. — By this it is meant to cover the roast either of meat 
or fowl with strips of fat salt pork fastened on with wooden 
skewers. This is resorted to to prevent scorching, and also to 
flavor. In larding, however, we sometimes puncture the meat 
with numerous incisions through which narrow strips of pork are 
to be drawn or pushed. 

Basting. — Simply dip the water or juices in the roasting-pan 
over the meat. Do this frequently, using a large spoon for the 
operation. 

Dredging. — Sprinkle with flour, salt or spice. 

Breading an article is simply rolling it in bread-crumbs, cracker 
dust, flour or cornmeal preparatory to frying. It is usual to dip 
the article to be breaded in beaten egg, or egg and water. Batter 
is sometimes used or a cream sauce, while if the article contains 
eggs, such as croquettes, the dipping may be omitted and simple 
rolling in crumbs substituted. 

Clarifying Fat for Frying. — The fat that is skimmed from 
gravies, soups or taken from roast meat always contains water and 



78 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

cannot be used for frying until this is removed. Melt slowly in a 
hot sauce-pan. Boil gently and pour off carefully. If wished 
especially clear straining through a cloth may be resorted to with 
good effect. 

Hot plates should be brought to the table with all varieties 
of meat, but more especially with mutton, as the fat of this is so 
quick to harden. Never heat them on the range or in the oven, 
thereby cracking and ruining the glazing. Put the plates required 
in a large pan and cover with boihng water. When ready to 
serve the dinner wipe the plates quickly and place on the table. 

Seasoning for meats should be added when the meats are al- 
most cooked, as salt draws out the juices of the meat. 

Gaknishes for Meats. — To garnish a dish is simply to orna- 
ment it. See Department of Garnishes. 

Bread Balls. — Break the bread in small pieces; moisten 
with milk or a little water; season with salt, pej)per and nutmeg; 
adding a little fine sage or parsley, and a small piece of butter. 
Mix and form in small cakes or balls. Koast with beef or chicken, 
or fry with steak. 

Dressing with Roast Beef— Very Nice.— Make a plain 
dressing, as for turkey or chicken, and bake in the pan with the 
beef. This is liked by many better than Yorkshire joudding. If 
the baking pan has no cover spread the dressing over the top of the 
meat as well. This will keep the meat moist. 

Meat that is baking too fast may be covered with a buttered 
paper. 

Corn Beef should be put over to cook in cold water, and not 
be taken out of the kettle until cold. This will prevent its being 
dry. 

Gravies for Roasts. — These should be thickened with 
browned flour. Uncooked flour is unpleasant to the eye and raw 
to the taste. Brown quite a quantity of flour at a time and keep 
handy in a glass jar or tin box closely covered. 

Roast Beef. — AUow one-quarter of an hour for each pound 
of meat. This old and reliable ride may be varied to suit the dif- 



MEATS. 79 

ferent tastes ; twenty minutes to the pound will secure a well-done 
roast. To have the meat full of gravy when cut, heat the pan and 
put in a very hot oven; add no Hquor until after the outside of the 
roast has seared over, thus retaining the juice. A piece of from 
7 to 10 pounds is very good size for a family of six persons. 
Dredge with flour; after the first quarter hour pour in a cupful of 
water; for a 7 pound roast sprinkle on 1 teaspoonful each of salt 
and pepper. Baste often; before the roast is done dredge once 
more with flour. When done pour in sufficient water for gravy, 
skim off most of the fat, and thicken slightly with flour. JeUy 
may be served with it. Half an hour before the meat is done, add 
to the pan beneath the roast a Yorkshire pudding. 
Yorkshire Pudding.— 

1 cupful of sifted flour. 

1 pint of milk. 

2 well-beaten eggs. 

Salt and a pinch of baking powder. 

A pint of water may be used instead of milk, in which case 1 
tablespoonful of dripping may be added. Mix this batter smoothly, 
adding the eggs last. Instead of pouring the batter into the pan 
with roast, it will be found an easier method at times to bake the 
pudding separately in a broad shallow pan for twenty minutes, 
cutting in squares and serving with the meat on top, and the gravy 
separately. 

Fillet of Beef Roasted.— The fillet is the underside of the 
loin. •Remove all supei-fluous fat. Take out the bones, trim and 
lard the top with slices of fat salt pork ; skewer ; put in a pan in 
the bottom of which are small bits of pork.and beef suet. Dredge 
with salt and pepper. Bake in a hot oven for one-and-a-half 
hours. After the first fifteen minutes add 1 cup of boihng water. 
Baste often. Garnish with colored jelly. 

Delicious Roast Meat. — Heat the baking pan hot. Then 
put in the roast and let it brown well. Turn over and sear the 
side thoroughly; this method retains the juices in the meat, then 
put in the oven and bake until done, basting as necessary. The 
inside will be pink and juicy. 

Rib Roast — Stuflfed.— Bemove the bones from the roast, 



8o THREE MEALS A DAY. 

flatten the meat and pepper it well. Make a rich dressing, mois- 
ten with egg. Pour the dressing into a hot frying pan with a 
little melted lard, stir umil thickened, h'pread over the meat. 
Eoll, tie and hake. Good to press and slice cold. 

Broiled Steak. — A char bed of coals is the first requisite for 
broiling, and this may he secured by sprinkling a handful of char- 
coal over the fire. Should it burn too much a little salt will extin- 
guish the flames and make the fire clear. Butter the girdiron well 
to prevent sticking. Sear first one side of the steak and then the 
other to retain the juices, then cook by frequent turnings, which 
process will require about ten miiuites, fifteen fur well done. Never 
put a fork into the lean part of broiling steak as this allows the 
escape of the gravy. Salt uraws out the juices, therefore should 
never be used until the article is removed from the broiler. A 
teaspoonful of lemon juice, mixed with a tablespoonful of melted 
butter, and sprinkled from time to time over the broiling steak 
will give, according to one expert in such matters, a very fine 
flavor. 

Fried Steak. — See first that the pan, and the dripping or 
butter to be used, are thoroughly hot. Prepare the steak as for 
broihng. Sear quickly on both sides and turn often until done 
never piercing the lean, and thus allowing the juices to escape. 
Salt when done. Serve on a hot platter with bits of butter over 
the steak and a slight sprinkle of pepper. Garnish with water 
cresses, parsley or Saratoga potatoes. 

Beefsteak a la Maitre d'Hotel.— A sirloin steak broiled with 
a piece of maitre d'hotel butter melting upon it and the dish is 
complete. 

Maitre d'Hotel Butter.— Fresh butter, pepper, salt and 
lemon juice mixed with scalded chopped j)arsley; serve the steak 
with this butter either upon or under the meat where it melts. 
Garnish with potato balls. 

Round Steak. — (With cream). — Pound or score well; cook 
like fried steak in its own fat. Serve on a hot platter. Pour halt 
a cup of sweet cream into the pan, let it boil up and tiurn over the 
steak. Veal steak may be served in the same manner. Another 
way is to cook the steak and pour sufficient water into the pan for 



MEATS. 8 1 

gravy, thicken with flour, browned flour is nicer, add butter if ne- 
cessary, season and remove the meat to the platter. 

Beefsteak with Oyster Sauce. — An agreeable change may 
be made, one that is suitable for any steak by adding a portion of 
oyster juice to the above brown gravy, thus giving the English 
oyster-sauce. Pour this over the steak, and garnish with cut lem- 
onc. Baked potatoes should be served with steak. 

Beefsteak Smothered in Onions. — Take a juicy beefsteak 
broil or fry nicely. Have ready 6 onions sliced and fried in but- 
ter, salt them slightly and let fry a light brown. When the steak 
is done and 'ready to serve, put several lumps of butter upon it, 
pour 2 tablespoonfuls of boiling water over it. Cover with the hot 
onions, and serve at once. 

Beefsteak for the Old.— Take coarse, lean teef , with a small 
quantity of suet. Eun through a sausage cutter or chop very fine, 
add pepper and salt, make into cakes | of an inch thick and fry in 
butter or suet, as you would beefsteak. This dish is not only 
cheap, but nearly as good as the choicest cut. To make nicer, roll 
in cracker-crumbs and beaten egg before frying. Serve with mashed 
potatoes. 

Beefsteak Pudding. — Make a crust with flour, finely chopped 
suet and warm water, salting slightly. Line a pudding dish or 
basin with this. Cut in bits a .tender steak and fill into the 
basin, seasoning each layer with salt and pepper, and, if liked, 
a little chopped onion. A very little chopped bacon added will 
improve the flavor. Cover with a layer of the same crust, and put 
the basin, tightly covered, in a steamer and steam until suflS- 
ciently done, one or two hours, according to size. When dished, 
open the top a little and put in a small lump of butter. 

-Braised Beef. — A cut from the round is suitable, or a still 
cheaper cut from the shoulder may be used. About 6 pounds is a 
good weight. Tie it carefully with twine and brown on both sides 
in a braising pan in which there has been fried three or four slices 
of fat salt pork ; dripping may be used instead. Dredge the meat 
well with flour. When it begins to brown, sprinkle over it 1 tea- 
spoonful of pepper and 2 of salt. When well browned on both 
sides add 1 quart of water, put it in the oven and roast slowly for 



82 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

four hours. Baste often. Remove from the pan aud serve; thick- 
en the gravy in the j)an with flour rubbed smooth in cold water. 
Let it boil up and serve separately. 

Mock Duck. — Take a round steak, bone it, make a dressing as 
for turkey. Spread this over the steak, roll up and tie, roast half 
an hour. 

Beef Cheose. — Boil beef of any kind, the shank is good, un- 
til the bones fall out, carefully reject all bits of gristle or other 
inedible substances; chop fine, season with salt, pepper, a dash of 
Cayenne and parsley, or such other herbs as may be preferred. 
Moisten with some of the liquor, adding a tablespoonful or two of 
vinegar, if desired. Press in a pan with a plate and heavy weight 
on top. 

Very tough and cheap pieces of meat may be made delicious 
by this method; slice thin when cold. The platter may be gar- 
nished with parsley. 

Beef Heart Stuffed. — Boil the heart three hours, leaving 
only enough water at the end for gravy. Make a dressing of bread- 
crumbs, melted butter, pepper and salt, using sage and chopped 
onions also. When the heart is tender, cut out a portion of the 
middle and fill the cavity with this dressing. Put the heart in a 
pan in the oven with the liquor it was boiled in, season with salt 
and pepper and bake about twenty minutes. Chop the piece of 
heart tine, stir into the liquor in the pan and thicken slightly with 
browned flour. This makes a rich gravy to be served separately. 

This dish is also very nice served cold without gravy. Slice 
thin and garnish the platter with lemon sliced, or parsley. Pickled 
string beans are a pretty garnish. 

Some cooks soak the heart over night in a weak brine. 

Dressing for Beef Heart. — A more elaborate dressing may 
be made as follows : 

2 cups of bread-crumbs. 
^ cup of chopped pork. 
^ of a lemon peel, grated. 

Thyme and other herbs and a dash of lemon juice to flavor. 
This dressing may be used for roast turkey, etc. This is delicious 
served cold. 



MEATS. 83 

Irish Stew. — Chop corned beef and salt pork fine— | beef 
and ^ pork, making the proper proportions. Put them in a stew- 
pan with 6 wliole peppercorns, 2 blades of mace, 1 teaspoonful of 
celery seeds and what sweet herbs are liked. Cover with water 
and stew very gently for an hour; then add 1 chopped potato, ^ 
turnip, i carrot also chopped, 1 sliced onion and 2 tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar to flavor. Thicken with flour, or boil ^ cupful of rice, 
putting it in at the same time with the vegetables. Put toasted 
bread cut in dice, or freshly baked biscuits, broken small, m the 
tureen ; pour the stew over this and serve hot. 

Baked Beef Stew. — Cut some beef in thin slices, pound it 
as for a pie, season well with pepper, salt, butter and some 
onion chopped fine; dredge with flour, put in a pudding-dibh.fill 
the dish with sliced potatoes ; add water, bake an hour or more, 
according to the size of the dish. Some sweet herbs may l)e 
added in place of the onions, if preferred. 

Spiced Beef Boll. — Take 6 pounds of beef flank. Mix to- 
gether thoroughly : 

3 tablespoonfuls of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of brown sugar. 

1 teaspoonful of pepper. 

1 saltspoonful each of cloves and allspice. 

Eub this over the meat and then sprinkle well with ^ teacup- 
ful of cider vinegar. 

Eoll up tightly and tie closely with twine, or bandage with 
thin muslin. Let it stand twenty-four hours in a cool place, then 
put in a saucepan and barely cover with boiling water and stew 
gently for four hours. Then dish, removing the strings, and 
thicken the gravy, which will have boiled down to a small quan- 
tity, with 1 or 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, according to the amount, 
rubbed smooth in cold water; let it boil up and serve separately. 

This is good cold, sliced, or it may be hashed, adding the re- 
mainder of the gravy. 

Boiled Flank, Stuffed.— Take a piece of flank, 6 or 8 inches 
wide, and as long as it will cut; sprinkle it with salt and let stand 
twenty-four hours. Then prepare stuffing as for chicken or tur- 
key; spread this over it and roll up very tight; tie up in a cloth 



84 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

and boil six hours. When taken up lay between two boards, to 
drain, and put a weight upon it until cold. It will then cut in 
very ornamental slices. To be eaten cold. 

Beef a la Mode. — The round of beef is best to prepare a la 
mode; bone it. For 5 pounds of beef, soak a pound of bread in 
cold water until soft; drain the water off thoroughly, mash the 
bread, chop up the marrow from the bone of the beef; i teaspoon - 
ful of salt, the same quantity of pepper; mace and nutmeg to 
the taste. These last may be omitted and parsley used instead. 1 
tablespoonful of flour; mix well together with two eggs well 
beaten. Fill with this seasoning the place from which the bone 
was taken, and cut gashes in the beef and fill likewise. Tie firmly 
with tapes to keep in form. It is a good plan to prepare it the 
day before and keep in a cool place. 

Cover the bottom of a stewpan with slices of salt pork or 
bacon ; lay the beef upon these and cover the top with more slices 
of pork skewered on. Pour in 1 quart of water, cover closely and 
let bake six hours, or more if the round is very large. 

A braising-pan is nice for this ; a small kettle that will go in 
the oven, or a deep pan that can be covered, will answer. 

An hour before the meat is done remove the pork from the 
top and spread any dressing that may be left over the beef. 

Dish the meat, and, keeping it hot while preparing the gravy, 
serve the sliced bacon on the same platter. 

Skim the fat carefully from the liquor in the pan, add boiling 
water if there is not a sufficient quantity; thicken with brown 
flour, season to the taste. Walnut catsup is good. Let it boil 
up and pour over the meat, serving at once. This is delicious 
sliced cold ; the gravy may be served separately at dinner. Beef 
may be cooked in this manner without the use of pork. 

Beef Loaf.— 

8 pounds of rare beef, chopped fine, 
i pound of salt pork, chopped. 
1 tablespoonful of salt. 

1 tablespoonful of pepper. 

10 tablespoonf uls of rolled crackers. 
3 tablespoonfuls of milk. 

2 eggs beaten. 



MEATS. 85 

Mix well and form into a loaf in a pudding dish. Pour over 
^ pint of water, bake two hours ; set away to cool ; cut in slices. 

Stewed Kidneys. — Parboil fifteen minutes, covering with 
cold water, seasoned with salt and red pepper — first cutting off the 
fat; skim the water as often as necessaiy. Take out, cut in 
mouthfuls, strain the liquor, return them to it, adding 1 head of 
chopped celery, 2 onions chopped, 12 potatoes sliced, and a piece 
of butter rolled in flour. Season with pepper and stew slowly un- 
til the meat and vegetables are tender. This may be made without 
the potatoes, when less water will be needed. Thicken with flour. 
To make the stew brown, fry the kidneys in a little butter before 
stewing. 

Beef Tongue, Boiled. — Wash the tongue carefully and soak 
twenty-four hours, changing the water at least once. Put it over 
to cook in cold water and boil from four to six hours, according to 
the size. The skin should always be removed as soon as taken 
from the pot. It may be served hot with sprigs of parsley over 
the root. If to be eaten cold, cut off the root, put a weight upon 
the tongue, and slice very thinly, garnishing with parsley or curled 
lettuce leaves. 

If the tongue is neither corned nor smoked, but perfectly fresh, 
the soaking may be omitted and the tongue boiled in slightly salted 
water, always remembering to put it over to boil in cold water. 

Deviled Tongue. — Take boiled beef tongue, chop very fine, 
sea^^on well with black and red pepper and dry mustard; add a 
couple of tablespoonfuls of vinegar to moisten, press solid and 
slice thin. " Deviled " means " very hot " or very highly sea- 
soned. 

Pickled Tripe. — Tripe procured at a meat market is pre- 
pared for pickling or frying. Cut in squares an inch or more each 
way, first drying in a towel, and pour boiling vinegar over them 
highly spiced with pepper-corn and mace. Add a little salt. This 
will keep some time. 

Fried Tripe. — Cut in pieces, dry carefully, roU in flour and 
fry in plenty of butter and lard mixed. Fry to a light brown. 
Some cooks serve this with a gravy made in the pan. 

Tripe — To Prepare. — After scraping, soak in salt water seven 



86 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

or eight days, changing the water every other day; then boil until 
tender, which will take eight or ten hours. Salt the water slightly. 
It is now fit for broiling, frying or pickling. Tripe is usually in 
the market ready prepared. 

Fried Liver. — Cut in slices half an inch thick, parboil, peel 
the edges, dip in salted flour and fry brown in hot lard, or fry 
some breakfast bacon in the pan first and cook the liver after- 
ward. Butter or beef suet may be used for frying. Serve the 
bacon, if used, with the liver 

Beef Liver Stewed. — Prepare the liver as above, fry brown 
with some slices of salt pork — 4 or 5. Then take it and cut in 
strips, together with the pork. Put it back in the pan with 1 cup 
ol water, a piece of butter rolled in flour and pepper to suit. Stew 
two minutes and serve hot. 

Rolled Corn Beef. — Take a piece of corned beef — a flank 
piece. Make a dressing as for chicken or turkey. Spread over 
the beef, roll tightly and tie. Fold in a thin cloth. Boil until 
tender. Take up, drain and press under a weight, slice cold, 
garnish with small cucumber pickles. 

Dried Beef with Eggs. — Cut some dried beef in thin 
shavings. Put them in a frying-pan, and nearly fill it with hot 
water. Set it on the fire and let it boil up once, and pour off. 
Put with the beef, butter the size of a hen's egg to half a pound 
of meat. Add a little pepper and let it fry a few moments over a 
quick fire; then break 3 or more eggs into it. Stir them together 
until the eggs are done; turn on a dish and serve; or fry the 
beef as above with a little wheat flour dredged over. Fry eggs and 
serve with it same as ham. 

Potted Beef, Ham, Chicken, etc.— Chop cold roast or 
boiled beef very fine. Veal, fowl, etc., may be used instead, Eub 
with each teacup of the meat 1 teaspoonful melted butter and 
season with pepper, salt and mace. A slice of cold ham chopped 
with it improves the flavor. Put in a double boiler, or in a dish 
set in a sauce-pan of boiling water until the meat is heated 
through. When nearly cold pack in small jars and cover the top 
with warm, not hot, butter or melted suet. It will keep ten days. 
Slice cold, melt the suet or butter and pour over again when part 
is used out. 



MEATS. 87 

VRALa, 

Teal Roast. — The loin of veal is the best part for roasting, 
though the breast and rack are very good for the same purpose, as 
is the fillet also. Salt, pepper and rub with butter. Put in a pan 
with a cupful of water, adding a little butter unless the meat is 
quite fat. Let the heat of the oven be gradual at the beginning. 
Baste frequently. About twenty-five minutes to the pound is 
necessary. Before the meat is done dredge with flour. Brown 
slightly. Remove most of the fat from the pan gravy, turn in 
sufficient hot water, thicken slightly with browned flour, let it 
boil up and send the gravy to the table separately. If the kidney 
be roasted with the loin serve each one, if possible, with a piece. 
See that the roast is cooked through. 

Baked Fillet of Veal. — The fillet is the under part of tlie 
loin. Bone it and fill the place with the following dressing : Soak 
a sufficient quantity of bread in cold water, squeeze dry; season 
this highly with pepper, salt and thyme or parsley ; add 1 table- 
spoonful of melted butter and mix with 2 well-beaten eggs. Sew 
the aperture together. Make gashes over the top of the veal and 
fill with more of the dressing. Put in the baking-pan with about 
a pint of water and pour the remainder of the dressing over the 
upper part of the meat. Four hours at least will be required to 
cook this roast sufficiently. Eemove from the fire, skim the gravy, 
thicken slightly with flour rubbed smooth in a little water. Add 
a small piece of butter and a dash of catsup. Serve separately. 
Garnish the roast with jelly. One nice method of serving jelly 
with meats is for the carver to place a spoonful of jelly on each 
slice of meat as he serves it. Mint sauce is very nice to serve 
with veal. 

Stuffed Breast of Teal. — The breast or brisket of veal is a 
low priced cut. Take the entire "plate," as it is called, have the 
bones removed at the market and sent home with the roast for the 
soup kettle. Make a bread stuffing as for Turkey or Fillet of Veal. 
Spread this over the broad piece of veal, roll up and tie firmly. 
Put this roll into a baking-pan with a little water and salt. Cover 
with a greased paper for a time, then remove and baste with drip- 



88 THREE MEALS A DAf. 

ping. Make the usual gravy in the pan. (See above.) Garnish 
according to taste. 

Veal Pot-Pie. — Boil the veal until tender. Season with salt, 
pepper and butter. Thicken the gravy, first adding hot water, if 
necessary, that there may be a sufficient quantity. Make a biscuit 
dough, roll thick and cover the meat. Make an opening for the 
steam to escape. Boil rapidly for half an hour after putting on 
the crust, keeping the kettle tightly covered. 

Veal Pie. — Cut the veal in small pieces, boil one hour, sea- 
son with salt pepper and a small piece of butter; make a crust 
with sour milk, saleratus and a little lard, flour sufficient to roll 
out. Line the sides only of a tin basin or pudding dish with this 
crust. Put the meat in, fill up the dish as full of gravy as it can 
be handled, dredge well with flour and cover it over with the crust. 
Make several openings for the escape of steam. If preferred a 
cream-tartar or baking powder crust may be used. 

Veal Stew. — Cut the veal in pieces, and put it over in about 
3 pints of water; add pepper and salt, onion chopped fine. Let it 
stew one hour and add a few potatoes sliced. The potatoes can 
be left out. Make a biscuit dough, roll out, cut -with a biscuit cut- 
ter and drop in the kettle. Stew half an hour longer and serve. 
The biscuit may be baked, broken open hot and laid crust down 
on the platter, and the stew poured over them. This is more 
healthful than boiled. 

Calf's Head Boiled. — Clean the head nicely. See directions 
for mock-turtle soup. Soak it in salt and water to blanch it. 
Take out the eyes, remove the tongue, and salt the brains to 
make a little side dish. Boil the head until tender. Then rub with 
butter, sprinkle over with salt, pepper and finely powdered sweet 
herbs, dredge with flour or finely powdered bread-crumbs, set in a 
hot oven and squeeze the juice of a lemon over it; this gives it a fine 
flavor. Sometimes a little of the liquor used in boiling is substi- 
tuted for basting. Koast to a fine brown, put on a hot platter and 
keep warm. 

Take a sufficient amount of the liquor for gravy, add a piece 
of butter the size of a hen's egg, thicken with browned flour, let it 
boil up with a small lemon cut in thin slices, (the lemon may be 



MEATS. 89 

omitted, but is usually liked). Serve the gravy separately. Garnish 
the head with forcemeat balls or slices of lemoD. 

For preparing the brains some cooks however, tie them in a 
cloth and boil with the head until done, and chop and add to the 
gravy, omitting the lemon. The liquor the head is boiled in 
should be left until the next day, skimmed and made into a soup, 
either seasoned plain, or seasoned turtle fashion. 

Calf's Head Baked. — Clean and prepare as above. Divide 
it ; rub over with butter, put in a baking pan with 1 quart of water. 
Cover it with a dressing made of bread soaked soft; a little butter, 
1 egg, and seasoned with salt, pepper and powdered mace; if liked, 
parsley may be used. Slice the brains and lay in the pan with the 
head. Garnish as above. Bake in a quick oven. 

Fried Veal Cutlets. — Take slices of veal 1 inch thick cut from 
the loin, rub with salt and pepper. Make a batter with ^ pint of 
milk, 1 egg beaten to a froth and flour enough to thicken, add a 
pinch of soda. Fry the veal brown, dip into the batter, put it 
back into the fat or butter and fry brown once more. If there is 
any batter left, drop it in large spoonfuls into the fat; fry brown 
and use to garnish the platter, serving one with each cutlet. 
Thicken the gravy with browned flour, first adding sufl&cient water, 
or simply dip the half-cooked cutlet in beaten egg and then roll in 
cracker-crumbs and fry slowly until brown on each side. Some 
cooks omit the first frying, but it will be found better as it pre- 
vents the tendency to rawness. Garnish with sliced lemon. 

Broiled Yeal Cutlets. — Salt and pepper, dip in melted but- 
ter, place upon the gridiron over a clear fire, baste with melted 
butter, turning three or four times. Melted butter sauce. 

Veal Loaf.— (Without egg).— 

1 cupful of cold cooked veal, minced. 

1 cupful of raw veal, minced. 

^ cupful of raw fat bacon or pork. 

Salt, pepper and a pinch of powdered bay leaf. 

Mix; make up in a little loaf and bake half an hour. Slice 
for use either hot or cold. When cold meat is used entirely; egg 
is necessary to moisten the ingredients. The use of part uncooked 
meat does away with this, and the loaf is firmer to slice. 



90 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Veal Loaf, No. 2.— 

2 cupfuls of cold minced veal. 



cupful bread-crumbs soaked in milk. 



1 egg, well beaten. 

Season with salt," pepper and nutmeg, if liked. 

Mix well together, put in a buttered mold and boil for one 
hour. If baked, add 2 tablespoonfuls of milk. Serve cold, sliced 
neatly. 

Veal Marble. — Boil a beef tongue the day before it is to be 
used, and a like number of pounds of lean veal. Grind first one, 
then the other, in a sausage cutter, keeping them in separate ves- 
sels. If you have no machine, chop very fine. Season the tongue 
with pepper, powdered sweet herbs, parsley, etc., and a teaspoon- 
ful of made mustard; the veal in like manner, with the addition of 
salt. Pack in cups, bowls or jars, which have been well buttered. 
Press very hard as you go on, smooth the top and cover with melt- 
ed butter. When this cools, close tightly as possible and keep in 
a cool dry place. Turn out whole, or cut in slices for tea. It is a 
savory relish, garnished with parsley or the blanched tops of cele- 
ry. Ground ham can be used instead of tongue, or the white 
meat of fowls for veal. Pack in alternate layers. 

Potted Veal. — Boil the veal until tender, a common cut will 
answer. Season with salt and Ciyenne pepper to taste. Take up, 
pick to pieces, take out all the bones, return to the kettle, and for 
each pound of meat stir in rapidly 3 well-beaten eggs; keep stir- 
ring until all is well mixed and cooked. Put in a dish. When 
jellied, slice cold for tea or lunch. Garnish with parsley and 
blanched celery tops; or make like Beef Loaf. 

Veal Jelly.— Boil shanks of veal until ready to drop from 
the bones. Chop and season to taste. Cut hard-boiled eggs in 
three or four slices. Put first a layer of the finely chopped meat, 
then a layer of eggs, until the dish is full, having meat last. Put 
under a weight and leave until perfectly cold. Slice for luncheon 
or company tea. 

Spiced Veal— Nice Relish.— 

3 pounds of veal chopped raw. 
1 thick slice of salt pork chopped. 



MEATS. 91 

8 Boston crackers rolled fine. 

3 eggs well beaten. 

^ teacup of tomato catsup. 

^ teaspoonful of salt. 

1 teaspoonful of pepper. 

1 lemon grated. 

Mold in the form of a loaf of bread. Cover with 1 rolled 
cracker, and baste with a teacup of hot water and melted butter 
(two tablespoonfuls of the butter.) Bake three hours, basting 
often to keep it moist. Bake the day before it is required for use. 
Slice very thin and garnish with sliced lemon and blanched celery 
tops. This will keep some time in a cool place, and can be sliced 
for use as desired. 

Pillau of Veal. — Boil a piece of lean veal until tender. Take 
up and cut into strips 3 or 4 inches long, return to the kettle with 
the liquor it was boiled in, and add 1 teacupful of rice to every 3 
pounds of veal. Put in a piece of butter the size of an egg. 
Season it with salt, pepper and parsley, if liked. Stew gently 
until the rice is tender, and the water almost evaporated. A little 
curry powder in this converts it into a dish of curry. 

Calfs Feet — Fried. — Boil until tender. Eemove the large 
bones, split, dredge with flour, season with salt, pepper and pow- 
dered parsley, and fry brown in butter or dripping. If a gravy is 
desired, pour a little water into the pan they were fried in, thicken 
with flour and season with salt, pepper and mace. Squeeze in a 
little lemon juice. Or they may be boiled tender with a calf's 
head and sjjlit in two and used to garnish the head. 

Buy those that have been singed, not skinned, as skinning 
results in a loss of all the gelatinous matter. 

Ciiirs Brains— Plain. — Soak the brains in salt water, 
remove the skin, wash free from blood, then boil tender. Serve 
with salt, pepper and melted butter. 

C^lfs IJraillS — Fried. — Wash as directed above, wipe dry, 
and then dip into beaten egg, and roll in bread-crumbs. Fry in 
hot lard, dripping or butter. Season with pepper, salt and slices 
ol lemon fried, if liked. 

Call's Brains— Scalloped.— Wash 2 set of brains in salt 



92 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

water. Let soak an hour. Remove the skin. Chop fine. Sea- 
son with salt, pepper and a little butter. Butter a pudding dish 
and fill with alternate layers of bread-crumbs and brains, having 
crumbs for the top layer. Pour in ^ cup of water and bake three- 
quarters of an hour. 

Larded Liver — Cairs. — Take a piece of liver and about J as 
much salt pork. Cut the bacon into strips about the size of a 
pencil. Make holes with a narrow knife, or a steel, and push the 
strips of pork through. The more the better. Let the larding be 
done so that the slices can be cut across it after cooking. Bake 
half an hour or more, according to size, in a pan with a little 
dripping, with a greased paper laid over the top to keep it moist. 
Serve in slices. 

Fricassee of Calfs Liver. — 2 pounds of liver cut into strips 
more than half an inch thick, and a finger long, 2 young onions, 
or 1 small ripe one minced, i cup of gravy or soup -stock. Dredge 
the sliced liver with flour and fry to a light brown quickly; turning 
often. Mince the onions, adding a little parsley, and heat them in 
the gravy in a saucepan. Put in the fried liver, and stew all 
gently for fifteen minutes. Pour in 1 tablespoonful of lemon juice 
and serve the liver with the gravy poured over it. 

Fried Sweet-breads. — Wash the sweet-breads carefully. Trim 
off the fat and boil one hour. Season the water with salt and a 
dash of vinegar. This may be done the day before. When quite 
cold split each lengthwise. Pepper and salt them, dip in beaten 
egg, and roll in cracker crumbs. Fiy a nice brown. Garnish with 
lemon cut in quarters. 

Stewed Sweet-breads. — Parboil until tender. Put into a 
stewpan with water or milk, rub a little butter and flour together, 
with salt, pepper and chopped parsley to taste. Stew twenty 
minutes and serve. 

Veal Sausage.— 

2 pounds of lean veal. 
1 pound of salt fat pork. 

Chop and grind as you would sausage meat. Add salt, pepper, 
sage, etc., and the result will be delicious sausage, far preferable 
to veal or pork cooked separately. 



MEATS. 93 

MUTO^ON AND IaAMB. 

Roast Mutton. — Mutton for roasting should have some but- 
ter rubbed over it and be dredged with salt and pepper. Put a 
little water in the baking-pan and a lump of butter; baste fre- 
quently. The bony side should be turned toward the fire first and 
roasted. Allow one-quarter of an hour to each pound of meat. 

Mint sauce is nice to serve with roast mutton, or melted cur- 
rant jelly. 

Stuffed Leg of Mutton. — Make a dressing of soaked bread, 
seasoned with salt, parsley and pepper. Mix with 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of malted butter and a couple of beaten eggs. Cut deep 
gashes in the leg and fill with this dressing. Put in a dripping- 
pan ; pour 1 pint of water and a lump of butter around it, and 
baste frequently. Bone the leg if possible, and fill the opening 
left with the dressing. Garnish with celery tops, green and 
blanched together. Chopped salt pork may be added to the dress- 
ing in proportion of one-third of pork to two-thirds of bread and 
the eggs and butter omitted. 

Cun-ant jelly and mashed turnips should be served with it. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton. — Put over in boiling water, allow- 
ing twenty minutes to the pound. Salt the water in the propor- 
tion of 1 teaspoonful to the quart. If to be eaten cold, cool in 
the water to make the meat juicy. A boiled leg of mutton may be 
stuffed as above and boiled in a cloth. This is very nice cold. 
Boiling in a cloth gives mutton a whiter and more delicate appear- 
ance. Garnish with sliced lemon and parsley or curled lettuce. 

Mutton Stew. — Take 2 pounds of mutton, cut into small 
pieces, not over 1 inch square. Cover with 1 quart of cold water, 
skim carefully and keep the water at the same level as it boils 
away by adding hot water as needed. To 2 pounds of meat add 
2 large onions cut fine, 6 medium-sized potatoes, 1^ teaspoonfuls 
of salt and ^ teaspoonful of pepper. Cover and stew for two 
hours; 1 small turnip sliced is an addition. Thicken the gravy 
with 1 tablespoonful of flour rubbed in cold water and boil five 
minutes longer. Serve hot. 

liaked Mutton Cutlet. — Trim carefully. Melt a spoonful of 



94 THREE MEALvS A DAY. 

butter and put a little on each cutlet; in a few minutes dip racli 
one in beaten egg and then in cracker crumbs. Lay them in a 
dripping-pan and bake in a hot oven one-half hour, basting two or 
three times with a little butter and water. Boil the gravy down 
to a cupful, thicken with browned flour and season with a table- 
spoonful of tomato catsup, ^ of a teaspoon ful of pepper, ^ tea- 
spoonful of salt, strain the gravy over the cutlets and serve hot. 

Mutton Chops. — Chops ought to be «awed, not cut. They 
should be 1 inch or 1^ inches thick. The gridiron should be hot, 
clean and well buttered, before the chops are put on; slant it so 
that the fat may trickle away. Season with salt; turn without 
putting a fork into the chop; turn often. They should be nicely 
browned and served with mushroom catsup and mashed potatoes. 

Mutton, Stewed with Green Peas.— Cut a breast of mut- 
ton in small pieces and fry brown in butter or dripping; season 
with salt and pepper; covr with water and let boil a few mmutes, 
skimming carefully, taking as much of the fat as possible. Then 
add 1 quart of green peas, shelled; boil half an hour and then 
thicken the gravy with flour rubbed smooth in milk or cream. ■ 

Roast Lamb. — The fore and hind quarters are good roasting 
pieces. Dredge with flour, sprinkle salt, pepper and bits of but- 
ter over the meat; baste it frequently with butter and water, a 
tablespoonful of butter to a teacupfulof water. These pieces may 
be stuffed also like a fillet of veal (See page 87). Lamb must be 
well done; bake twenty minutes to the pound. Mint sauce is the 
conventional dressing for roast lamb, but the following cream 
sauce will be liked. 

Creai^i Sauce for Lamb. — Pour off the clear fat from the 
baking-pan after the meat is removed. Add a cup of milk. Let 
it cook a few minutes ; add flour and butter; season sufficiently. 
The juice of half a lemon and a sprinkling of chopped parsley will 
add to the flavor. Serve the lamb with green peas. 

Shoulder of Lamb, Grilled. — The shoulder of lamb is good 
roasted plain, but is better cooked in the following manner: 

Score it in checkers, an inch each way, brush over with melted 
butter, then the beaten yolk of an egg, and dip in bread-crumbs: 
dredge with salt, pepper and powdered sweet herbs ; roast until a 



MEATS. 95 

light brown. Make a plain gravy in the pan, thougli the follo-sv- 
ing sauce is better: 

Sauce. — Take | pint of the hquor or gravy, add to it the 
same quantity of water, set over the fire, and when it boils, 
thicken with a little flour rubbed smooth in water, and season with 
a tablespoonful of tomato catsup, the juice and grated rind of 1 
lemon, and salt and. pepper to the taste. 

Lambs' Tongues.Tr-Lay in salt and water over nighfc, then 
boil until you can thruw^ a broom straw through them. Skin and 
pack in an earthen dish. Boil whole mace, cloves, pepper and 
cinnamon in cider vinegar and pour over until they are covered. 

Lamb Chops. — Trim carefully, lay in a little melted butter 
for an hour, turning several times ; then broil on a greased grid- 
iron, taking care they do not drip; butter, pepper and salt each 
one, lay in a circle on a plate and serve. Garnish with parsley. 
Another way is to lay each chop on half a slice of buttered toast 
and serve. 

Lamb Stew. — The head, feet and heart of a lamb, carefully 
cleaned, make a very good stew. Boil until tender, cut the meat 
from the head, cut up the heart and split the feet in two. Put the 
whole into a pan with a pint of the liquor they were boiled in, to- 
gether with a little butter, pepper, salt and i teacupful of tomato 
catsup. Thicken slightly vnth. flour. Stew the whole five min- 
utes. Pepper-grass or parsley will do for garnishing. 

Leg of Lamb Boiled. — Boil in a cloth to make it white. Cut 
the loin in steaks, dip in egg, roll in bread-crumbs, fry a nice 
brown and place around the dish. Garnish with fried parsley. 
Spinach or green peas should be served with it. 

PORK. 

Roast Pork. — Put over in a hot pan with about 2 cupfuls of 
water in the bottom. Score the skin in either strips or diamonds. 
Kub with salt, pepper and finely powdered sage. Roast until thor- 
oughly done; time, twenty-five minutes to the pound. Baste with 
melted butter often. If a loin roast, make deep gashes between 
the ribs and fill with a bread dressing flavored with sage and 
minced onion. (See Poultry.) If a leg roast, make deep incisions 



96 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

in the meat at the large end and fill firmly with the same dressing. 
Pour o£f the fat from the pan gravy, add sufficient water, thicken 
with browned flour, add the juice of half a lemon. Serve apple 
sauce with it. Spiced gooseberries or currant jelly are nice also. 
Mashed potatoes and mashed turnips are the vegetables served 
with roast pork. Parsnips are also suitable. 

Roast Spare Rib. — Trim carefully, season, place in a pan 
with a little water. Baste first with melted butter, then frequently 
with the dripping. Dredge with flour when partly done and baste 
finally with melted butter, the spare-rib roast being very dry. 
Make gravy as for Eoast Pork. Serve with apple sauce and vege- 
tables as above. A bread-crumb dressing as above is sometimes 
spread over the spare-rib and roasted with it. 

Roast Pig. — A pig for roasting should be small and fat, 
dressed carefuUy the day before. Prepare a dressing of bread- 
crumbs seasoned with salt, pepper and sweet herbs. Add a little 
butter to moisten with and a tablespoonful of hot water. Stuff 
and sew neatly. Kub butter on the outside to prevent blistering. 
Put a little water in the pan. Eoast from two and a half to three 
hours. Baste with butter at the last. Bake a crisp brown. Cut 
off the first joint of the feet, chop them up together with the liver 
and heart, boil them tender, season with pepper, salt and sage. 
Koll bits of butter in flour, take some of the dripping from the 
pan and add to it. Thicken what is necessary and send to the 
table in a gravy-boat. A potato dressing with the addition of 
sage is sometimes used. Cut the head off, split the pig in halves 
and lay on the platter with dressing under it. The head and ears 
are sometimes used as decoration, but as this is displeasing to 
some tastes it is best to omit them. Garnish with parsley and 
blanched celery tops. Serve celery and fried apples with it. In 
In the south, where roast pig is a favorite dish, it is customary 
to stand the pig whole upon the platter with an apple, orange 
or ear of corn in its mouth. Garnish with roasted link sau- 
sage. 

Boiled Ham. — Soak a ham for twenty-four hoiu-s. Put over 
to boil for four or five hours in cold water. When done so that a 
fork penetrates easily, draw off the skin. Strew rasped bread over 



MEATS. 97 

it. Sprinkle thickly with sugar and hake one hour. This draws 
out part of the fat, and imparts a delicious flavor. 

If the ham is to he glazed omit the hread-crumbs in roasting. 
Brush over with the yolk of a well-beaten egg. Dredge half an 
inch thick with powdered cracker, and cover with sweetened cream. 
Remove to the oven long enough to brown. Garnish with parsley. 

If to be simply boiled allow the ham to become cool in the 
water it was boiled in. In this way the juices are retained, thus 
preventing the dryness so common in cold ham. A 15-pound ham 
requires boiling five hours. Cut writing jiaper in a fringe and 
twist around the shank bone before serving. 

The choicest parts of a ham are to be used for slicing. The 
remainder can be hashed for ham omelettes, ham toast, etc., for 
which see the appropriate departments. 

Pi^s' Feet — To Geail. — Put the feet in cold water over 
night, then with a moderately sharp knife scrape until all the parts 
are clean and white. Hold the lower end in hot water for a minute 
or two, the hoofs can then be twisted off by hand. Binge, and 
they are ready to boil for souse or head cheese. The ears may be 
cleaned at the same time. Soak them for a number of days in salt 
water. 

To Cook. — Boil them tender; be careful to keep the skin 
whole. They will need cooking three or four hours. They may 
then be used for pickling or split for broiling or frjing. 

Soused Pigs' Feet. — Take pigs' feet and ears that have been 
boiled until tender. To half a dozen feet take 1 pint of vinegar, 1 
tablespoonful of salt, a little allspice, mace, and a few cloves and 
peppers. Put them in a jar and pour the spiced vinegar over 
boiling hot. Cover closely. They wuU be ready for use in 2 or 3 
days and will keep all winter. Soused feet may be eaten cold, or 
they may be split in two, dipped in flour and fried brown in hot lard. 

Pressed Pigs' Feet. — Boil pigs' feet until the meat falls 
from the bones. Pick over carefully, separate into small pieces. 
Season highly with salt and pepper. Pack closely in jars. Pour 
in enough of the liquor the feet were boiled in to moisten the 
meat. Put a heavy weight over until cold. Delicious sliced for 
lunch. 
7 



98 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Pork Chops with Apples. — Put the chops in the frying pan, 
seasoning by sprinkhng pepper, salt and a little sage over it. Fry 
sliced apples in the gravy, adding butter if there is not enough fat. 
Brown the apples and lay them over the chops. 

Toad ill tlie Hole. — Roll half a pound of sausage into six 
balls; place these in a greased baking dish. Make a batter of 2 
eggs, 2 heaped up tablespoonfuls of flour and l pint of sweet milk. 
Pour this over the sausage, place in a moderately hot oven, bake 1 
hour. Serve with pork gravy and boiled or baked i^otatocs. A 
nice little dinner for two. 

Pressed Pig's Head— Spiced.— Have the head well cleaned. 
Boil until the meat will almost drop from the bones. Take up 
when cool. Cut the meat in inch bits. Heat it in a little of the 
liquor it was boiled in, and season highly with salt, pepper, cloves, 
nutmeg and cinnamon. Put in a jar and press with a plate with 
heavy weight, or pour into a strong bag. Put a heavy weight upon 
it, and let it remain till perfectly cold. Serve in thin slices. 

Ham Toast. — Chop cold boiled ham very fine, using but little 
of the fat, and prepare as follows : 

1 pint of chopped ham. 

2 eggs well-beaten. 

^ teacupful of sweet cream or milk. 

A little pepper, salt and ^ teaspoonful of dry mustard. 

Heat this mixture thoroughly. When boiling hot spread over 

slices of toasted bread dipped in hot salted water and well buttered. 

A very nice relish. Plain soft toast may have grated ham spread 

over it ^ inch thick. 

Pork Pie. — Boil tenderloin or backbone until done. Chop 
fine. Season with pepper, salt, sage and summer savory. Line a 
deep pudding dish with a rich crust, fill with the meat, put in by 
layers and dredge each layer with flour. Pour in f cup of water 
(the flour is to thicken the gravy). Put on the upper crust making 
an opening for the escape of steam. Bake. 
Head Cheese.— 

^ a pig's head. 
4 pounds of beef (shank.) 
Pepper and salt, a large bunch of thyme, the same of summer 



MEATS. 99 

savory aud parsley. Sage may be used instead of summer savory. 
Boil the meat until the bones slip out. Chop fine, mixing the 
spices thoroughly with the meat. Put the meat in deep dishes. 
Pour over what little liquor may remain. Press down with plates 
upon which heavy weights have been placed, and let stand until 
the meat is set. Take off when cold whatever fat may have 
pressed out, and turn the cheese over on plates. It will be clear 
and smooth as jelly. Instead of beef a knuckle of veal may be 
used. Some cooks use heart and part of a liver in place of the 
beef. 

Salt PorK Fried in Batter. — Freshen the pork by soaking 
over night in sweet skim milk. When ready for use dip in a bat- 
ter made of — 

1 egg. 

1 cup sweet milk. 

Flour to make a batter thick as for griddle cakes. 
Fry brown in lard or pork gravy. 

Broiled Salt Pork. — Slice the pork and broil over a hot bed 
of coals, turning frequently. Have ready a bowl of cold water 
and at each turning dip the slices in the water. This will freshen 
the pork sufficiently, aud at the same time give a certain crispness. 
The last time omit the water and let the pork brown slightly. 
Serve on a platter with bits of butter, or drawn butter poured 
around the meat. 

Ham Omelet. — Chop bits of cold ham finely. Season with 
butter, pepper and salt. Beat two or three eggs and stir with them 
over a good fire. Pieces of beef may be used in the same fashion. 
In either case the dish is excellent. 
Bologna Sausage.— 

3 pounds of beef (lean). 

3 pounds of veal. 

3 pounds salt pork, bacon or ham. 

3 pounds of fresh pork. 

4 teaspoonfuls of black pepper. 

1 teaspoonful each of mace and Cayenne. 
10 teaspoonfuls of sage or summer savory. 
Powder before using. 



lOO THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Chop the meat very fine. Have well cleaned beef intestines; 
fill, tie, prick and boil one hour gently. Dry in straw or smoke the 
same as hams. Keep in a cool, dry place. Slice for tea or lunch. 
If wished, either the veal or beef may be omitted, varying the 
spices to suit the diminished quantity. 

A variation of the above consists iu packing the chopped and 
prepared meat in muslin cases nine or ten inches long, and about four 
wide. Tie securely and leave in a ham pickle for five days ; then 
smoke eight days. Hang in a cool, dark place. 

Sausage. — 

50 pounds finely chopped pork. 

12 ounces salt. 

4 ounces ground black pepper. 

4 ounces sage or summer savory. 

2 ounces saltpetre. 
li pounds of fat meat to 3 pounds of lean is in excellent 
proportion for sausage. The sausage is better to be one-half beef. 
Mix well, pack in pans and cover thickly with warm lard; loosen 
this when necessary and then press ciirefully back. The prepared 
sausage meat may be stuffed into prepared intestines or muslin 
bags. (See Bologna Sausage.) A little flour mixed with the meat 
tends to prevent the fat running out when cooked. 

Beef Sausage. — In summer very good sausage may be made 
A raw beef with a little salt pork. Season as above, omitting the 
6altpetre. Of course this should be made in small quantities. 

Lard — To Render. — Cut the fat in small pieces, either the 
leaf or the side pork. Put in 1 pint of water to a No. 8 kettle full 
of lard. Simmer slowly, stirring frequently and watching that it 
does not burn. When the scraps are just beginning to get brittle 
and brown add a tablespoonful of fine salt to a quart of the lard, 
and the lard will keep perfectly sweet for any length of time. By 
knowing the size of the kettle used it will be easy to estimate the 
quantity of salt required. The salt does no possible harm to any 
kind of cookery, and makes the lard whiter and harder. Let it 
cook slowly for a short time after adding the salt. Strain through 
a coarse cloth, always squeezing the last drops into a separate jar 
for common uses. Dip the cloth in boiling water now and then to 



MEATS. lOI 

free from grease. Earthenware should be used for holding the 
lard and several small vessels are preferable to a single large one, 
as preventing the necessity of distiirbing the entire quantity each 
time. The jars may be covered with bladders or cloths dipped in 
grease. 

Lard — To Sweeten. — Put the tainted lard in a kettle and 
cut salt pork in thin slices, ^ pound of pork to a gallon of 
melted lard. Add 2 spoonfuls of salt and cook until the pork is 
crisp. Remove the slices of pork, turn the lard into a jar, and it 
will be found perfectly sweet. The use of salt, however, will pre- 
vent all such trouble. Some housewives substitute sHced Irish 
potatoes, raw; the pork will be found preferable. 

To Prepare Sausage for Summer. — Grind and season as 
for present use. Make into cakes and fry until the water is thor- 
oughly out. Then turn all into a jar, packing the cakes carefully. 
Let stand until cold, then melt fresh lard and pour over it until 
the lard is 2 inches above the meat. The lard taken from the jar 
must be heated and poured back, thus keeping air from the ro- 
maining sausage. This is a rare dish. The surplus lard in the 
jar is better for frying chicken, mush, etc., than any other. This 
will keep a long time. 

GURIMG MRATS. 

Brine or Pickle for Beef, Ham, Shoulder or Mutton.— 

50 pounds of meat. 

3 gallons of water. 

7^ pounds Turk Island salt. 

1 quart molasses. 

1^ pounds brown sugar. 

li ounces saltpetre. , 

1 ounce baking soda. 
Bring to a boil, skim and let cool. The pickle can be used as 
long as fresh and sweet. 

A piece of beef remaining in this a few days makes the finest 
com beef. If it remains in several weeks, it should be soaked over 
night before using. A round of beef put in this pickle for 4 weeks, 
and then dried slowly in a cool place, makes superior dried beef. 



I02 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

A handful each of mace and cloves thrown into the brine will 
improve the flavor of the meat. If it is desired to give the meat 
a red color, nearly six times as much saltpetre must be used. 

Pork should never be put in pickle until 2 days after killing, 
and during this time it should be lightly sprinkled with powdered 
saltpetre, which will remove all surface blood and make the meat 
sweet and clean. Three months will pickle it to perfection, though 
it may be smoked sooner. In packing pork cover the bottom of 
the barrel with coarse salt, then lay on it first the hams with the 
outside down, sprinkling them well on the flesh side with fine salt, 
then j)ut in the shoulders; in the same way above these the side 
pieces. 

The fire for smoking meat should never be allowed to spring 
into a blaze. Heat will start the fat of the meat and damage it. 
Before warm weather brings flies, the meat should be taken down, 
ea.ch piece rubbed over with pepper and molasses and hungup 
again. Continue smoking, and repeat this operation 2 or 3 times, 
and there will be no trouble with insects. 

To Restore Pork. — In warm weather, the brine on pork 
frequently becomes sour, and the pork tainted. Pour off the brine, 
boil it, skim it well, then pour it back again upon the meat, boiling 
h( 't. This will restore it, even where it was much injured. 

To Cure Hams. — 

1 ounce saltpetre to each ham. 

1 pint of pure molasses to 1 pound of saltpetre. 

^ pound of salt to each pint of molasses. 

Heat the mixture almost to the boiling point, and while hot 
rub into the meat well, especially around the bones. Let the 
hams lie one week, then place in a strong salt brine three weeks. 
Remove, soak eight hours in fresh water, hang and dry two weeks. 
Smoke three to five days, according to size. Then wrap in strong 
tar paper and tie close. Next tie in cotton cloth bags. Separate 
the paper from the cloth by stuffing in shavings or sawdust. Hang 
near the roof. 



MJI^M Gf?0QMET^TE:g. 



li 



t^'-ip-* ^EFT-OVEEB" are a necessary part of all comfortable, not 
to mention abl^ndant housekeeping. To utilize these in 
an appetizing, and at the same time economical way, is 
one of the accomplishments of all good housewives. 

And, indeed, the dainty dishes, the curries, the scallops, the 
ragouts and the hashes that may be satisfactorily prepared by a 
skilled hand from such materials will be approved by the most 
critical epicure. 

But since the same preparations may, through inexperience, 
become unwholesome and unpalatable mysteries, too much atten- 
tion cannot be paid to the simple and explicit rules given here for 
the preparation of these important compounds. 

Beef liissoles. — Chop and season cold roast beef; season 
with salt, pepper and tomato catsup or a little prepared mustard. 
Make some plain pastry, roll very thin, and cut into pieces 4 
inches square; inclose in each, some of the prepared beef, and 
fold £)ne edge of the paste over like a turnover ; drop in hot lard 
and fry like doughnuts to a very light brown. 

The paste can scarcely be rolled too thin. A delicious break- 
fast or side-dish. Eoast mutton, veal and even pork can be served 
in like manner. 

Hash with Eggs. — Chop the remnants of cold boiled mut- 
ton or veal very fine ; heat in a very little of the broth, adding 
pepper, salt and butter; toast slices of bread and spread this hash 
upon them. Break eggs into boiling water ; when cooked lay one 
over the hash upon each slice of toast. This is very nice. 

Spanish Hasli. — 

1 cup finely chopped cold meat. 
1 cup raw tomatoes, cut in bits. 
1 common sized onion, chopped. 

(103) 



I04 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Season with salt, finely chopped red pepper pods, and butter 
if the meat is quite lean. Cook until the tomatoes are done. If 
too thin, thicken with bread or cracker crumbs. 

Hashed Beef. — Take 2 pounds of cold cooked beef, free 
from sinew and bone, and chop well. Peel and chop 2 onions, 
put in the frying-pan with 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. When be- 
ginning to color lightly add the beef, a little salt, pepper, nutmeg 
if liked, and a pinch of thyme. Place over the fire and stir ten 
minutes, moistening with a little boiling water. Just before 
serving sprinkle with a little powdered or chopped parsley. 

Meat and Potato Hash. — Cold corn beef is considered best 
for this, but other meats answer as well; indeed, a mixture of two 
or more kinds adds to the flavor. Chop the meat fine, carefully 
removing superfluous bits of gristle and sinew. Use half as much 
meat as of boiled potatoes. Put a little boiling water in a sauce-pan, 
together with a good- sized piece of butter. Season the chopped 
meat and potatoes, and put in the saucepan. Let this cook well, 
stirring occasionally. It will adhere to the pan slightly when 
done, and should be neither watery nor dry. For many the hash 
is improved by the addition of a finely chopped onion. Hash 
may be served very tastefully for breakfast by spreading an inch 
or more in thickness upon slices of buttered toast. Mustard should 
be served with it. Hash is very nice moistened with milk instead 
of water. 

Mutton Hashed. — Cut the cold mutton in small pieces; if 
underdone, so much the better; season well. Boil the bones and 
rough trimmings of the meat in sufficient water to cover them; 
strain the gravy into a stewpan, add the mutton and any cold veg- 
etables that may be on hand, carrots, turnips and potatoes sliced, 
and a little minced onion. Let simmer and finally boil up once 
before seizing. Tomatoes are nice to use. Other meats may be 
served in the same manner. 

Meat Scrapie. — Boil the meat until it falls from the bones. 
Use any kind. Hog's head, liver, heart and feet, are very good used 
together. The cheaper parts of beef may be utihzed also. Remove 
all the bones. Chop fine. Season well with salt and pepper and 
any sweet herbs liked. Skim and strain the liquor it was cooked 



HASH. 105 

in. Eeturn the meat and let it boil up, then thicken to the con- 
sistency of mush with corn-meal. Dip out in a pan or deep dish. 
Slice when cold and fry brown like mush. Nice, cold or hot, for 
a breakfast dish or for lunch. If a quantity is made, it can be 
preserved by pouring melted lard over the top. 

A nice way of using cold meat is to chop fine and stir into a 
kettle of corn -meal mush. Slice this simpler scrapie and fry as 
above. 

Meat Omelet, — Chop fine, add pepper and salt with a little 
water. Set over the fire and let it simmer, not boO, ten or fifteen 
minutes, then break 2 or 3 eggs in it, stirring all till the eggs are 
cooked. Proportion the eggs to the quantity of meat. Different 
kinds of meat may be used together. 

Meat Scallop. — Chop the cold meat fine, either one or 
more kinds just as it happens. Season with salt and a little 
Cayenne. Mix with a few bread-crumbs. Fill the pudding dish. 
Moisten with broth or milk. Cover with a thick layer of mashed 
potatoes. Dust cracker or bread-crumbs over this and bake ^ hour, 
browning the top. Com beef is very nice prepared in this way. 

Rechauffe of Cold Meat— 

1 large cupful ot cold chopped meat, any variety. 

1^ cupfuls of raw potatoes, chopped. 

1 small onion, minced fine. 

Dessert spoonful of butter. 

1 teaspoonful of salt, ^ as much pepper. 

Parsley. 

Simmer the meat fifteen minutes in water enough to cover. 
Then add the onion, potatoes and seasoning. Cook half an hour 
longer, then add the butter and parsley. The potatoes should 
furnish the needed thickening, but a little flour may be added. 

Cold Meats. — Cold meats may be made very inviting by slic- 
ing thinly, arranging upon the platter and garnishing with parsley 
or cress around the edge and between the slices. 

Deviled Beef. — Take slices of cold roast beef, if underdone, 
so much the better. Broil over hot coals. Season highly with 
pepper. Serve with a small lump of butter on each piece. 

Ueefsteak Pie. — Cut cold beefsteak or any other cold beef 



Io6 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

in small pieces. Peel and slice an equal amount of raw potatoes. 
Take a deep dish, put in a layer of potatoes, then one of meat, 
and so on until the dish is filled. Season as you would chicken pie. 
Pour in a cup of boiling water. Milk is very nice to use. Cover 
with plain crust and bake one hour. A crust of richly seasoned 
mashed potatoes may be used instead. 

Tomato Meat Pie. — Cover the bottom of a pudding dish 
with bread-crumbs, then a layer of cold roast mutton chopped fine, 
then a layer of tomatoes sliced, repeat as before, having the last 
layer crumbs. Season each layer highly. A dash of Cayenne is 
an improvement, and bits of butter with each layer of crumbs. 
Bake until browned. Serve hot. Very nice. 

Hotch Potch. — Equal parts of cold boiled meat, cold boiled 
potatoes chopped, and stale bread. Mis well and enclose in a 
crust as for chicken pie. Moisten with milk, or boiling water, or 
broth. Bake ^ hour. A crust of mashed potatoes spread over, 
or simply a thick layer of bread-crumbs dotted with bits of butter, 
may be used instead of pastry. 

Ragout of Cold Veal. — Cut boiled or roasted veal in nice 
slices. Flour and fry in butter till a light brown. Take up and 
turn a little hot water into the butter they were fried in. Mix 
a little flour or water together and stir into the gravy. Season 
with salt, pepper and lemon juice, or catsup. Slice in an onion 
if desired. Put in the meat and stew until very hot. Serve. 

Deviled Ham. — Fry slices of cold boiled ham. Keep warm 
while stirring into the gravy 4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, mixed 
with 1 teaspoonful of mustard, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, ^ teaspoon- 
ful of catsup. Let this boil up once, and pour over the ham. 

Beef Balls. — Mince cold roast beef (rare cooked is better). 
Add 2 cups of mashed potatoes to 1 of minced beef, yolk of 1 egg, 
2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of sweet milk. Form into flat cakes. Dredge 
with flour and fry until nicely browned in hot beef dripping. 
Garnish with parsley. A very little minced onion is an addition. 
Instead of frying they may be browned in a hot oven fifteen 
minutes. 

Minced Ham with Eggs.— Mix i a pound of cracker- crumbs 
with an equal quantity of finely-minced lean boiled ham. Moisten 



HASH. 107 

this mixture with a little hot water in which a small piece of butter 
is dissolved. Put the mixture in a baking dish. Make depressions 
in it. Place iu each the yolk and white of 1 egg. Bake a dehcate 
brown. Any other meat hash may be served in the same way. 
Minced Veal.— 

li cups rich milk. 

1 tablespoouful cornstarch. 

1 tablespoonful of butter creamed with the cornstarch. 

1 teaspoonful minced parsley. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 
Heat the milk to scalding and pour over the cornstarch and 
butter, stirring smoothly. Turn this over 2 cupfuls of minced 
cold veal (lean). Let it boil up once and pour over slices of but- 
tered toast. This dressing may be used in the same way for cold 
fowl. 

Beef Fricasseed. — Cut cold roast beef in small pieces. Put 
in a stewpau with a good-sized piece of butter, some finely-minced 
onion, a little water with salt and curry powder (see Soups) to 
taste. Simmer fifteen minutes and serve hot witn a ring of boiled 
rice surrounding it. Omit the curry powder and chop a small 
onion with it instead if preferred. 

GROQURTO^RS. 

Croquettes may be fried in almost any kind of sweet drip- 
ping. Always remember th^ fat should be hot, the croquette well- 
breaded, and the whole fried quickly and neatly so that no sus- 
picion of grease may remain. 

If the croquette has been mixed with egg, simple breading or 
rolling in bread or cracker crumbs will be sufficient, otherwise dip 
first in egg and then in crumbs. 

Stale bread should be cut in slices, dried in the oven, crushed 
with a rolling pin and put away in a jar. It will be much better 
for frying oysters, croquettes, cutlets or thickening soups than 
cracker dust. 

Croquettes are to be fried in a quantity of fat in the same 
manner as doughnuts. 

Fat that is boiling will not penetrate anything, and cooks to 



I08 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

perfection, forming an almost instantaneous crust over the article 
that effectually prevents the absorption of any grease. For dough- 
nuts, croquettes, etc., follow the same rule. 

Croquettes should be served on a folded napkin laid on a 
plate. Direct contact with a plate renders them heavy. 

Croquettes of Calves' Brains.— 
1 cupful of bread-crumbs. 
Butter the size of an egg. 
Yolk of 1 egg. 

1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 
1 tablespoonful of vinegar or a little lemon juice. 
Salt, pepper and a little nutmeg. 

Simmer the brains (about | pound) in salted water for twenty 
minutes. Put them in cold water and peel ofi the dark outer 
membrane. (This is better done the day before.) Chop them up 
and mash with all the other ingredients. Make up in rolls or flat 
cakes. Dip first in beaten egg, then in crumbs and fry. Cook 
them well. Serve with cream sauce. Drain in a hot colander. 
Serve hot or cold. Garnish with parsley or cress. The sauce can 
be omitted. 

Chicken Croquettes. — About ^ as much fine bread-crumbs 
as meat; 1 egg beaten light to each cupful of minced meat; gravy 
enough to moisten; pepper, salt and chopped parsley to taste. 
Mix into a paste. Make into rolls or balls, roll in fine cracker 
dust and fry in nice dripping or a mixture of half lard and half 
butter. Drain in a hot colander or lay on a folded towel or brown 
paper. Garnish with parsley. Veal and other meats may be made 
in the same way. 

Fish Croquettes. — A.ny cold fish boiled, baked or fried from 
which all fat, bones and skin have been removed, chopped fine; ^ 
as much mashed potato rubbed to a cream with a little butter. 
Mix thoroughly, make in balls, dip in beaten egg, roll in cracker 
or bread-dust and fry as before directed. Serve with pickles. 
Walnuts (pickled) are nice. 

Shad Roe Croquettes.— Make same as above. 

Lobster Croquettes. — 

1 fine lobster well boiled or 1 can of lobster. 



HASH. 109 

2 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 
1 teacupful of bread-crumbs. 
Salt and Cayenne pepper to taste . 
Chop the lobster meat fine, add bread-crumbs, the seasoning 
and the butter. Mix with the yolk of 1 egg. Make into oblong 
croquettes. Beat the remainder of the eggs and dip the croquettes; 
first in them and then in bread-crumbs and fry to a light brown. 
Drain off fat by laying upon a hot clean paper before dishing. 
Ham Croquettes.— 

1 cup ham, minced. 

2 cupfuls potatoes. 
1 cup bread-crumbs. 
1 teaspoonful butter. 
1 egg. 

Mix; make into flat round cakes, roll in bread-crumbs and fry 
in hot fat. 

Potato Croquettes. — Make same as Potato Balls. Serve 
with fish. Cold mashed potatoes may be used. 

Rice Croquettes. — Make same as Rice Fritters. See Fritters. 

Sweet-bread Croquettes.— Boil 2 pair of sweet-breads in 
salted water a few minutes ; cut up ; cut also ^ can of mushrooms 
into dice; if fresh ones are used, parboil; add 1^ tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter and 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, let cook together; then 
add 1 gill of cream or soup stock. When hot, stir in the cut 
sweet-breads and mushrooms; when heated through add the beaten 
yolks of 2 eggs; allow them to set without boiling. When cold, 
form in rolls or balls ; dip in egg, then in cracker crumbs, and fry 
in boiling lard or dripping. Garnish with curled lettuce or pars- 
ley. A very nice dish for parties. 

Veal Croquettes. — To 1 pint of chopped cold veal (beef may 
be used) add ^ pint of cream, or rich milk may be used ; to this 
quantity put 1 tablespoonful butter creamed with one tablespoon- 
ful flour. Put all save the meat over the fire to thicken; season 
it to taste, and pour over the meat; mix thoroughly and form into 
shape; roll in bread or cracker crumbs and fry brown, or, if pre- 
ferred, bake. 



no THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Oyster Croquettes.— 

1 quart of oysters, minced. 

1 cup of cream or milk. 

1 tablebpoonful of butter rubbed in 

4 tablespoonfuls of corn starch. 

Pepper and salt to taste. 
Heat the (jj-eam (a double boiler is best for such things) ; when 
it boils, add the butter and corn starch, stirring constantly, 
when perfectly smooth add the oysters and seasoning. Cook five 
minutes; when cold roll into croquettes. When perfectly firm dip 
in beaten egg, roll in cracker crumbs and fry in boiling fat. Gar- 
nish with sliced lemons. Oyster croquettes may be made same as 
Lobster Croquettes. 

Green Corn Croquettes. — See Green Com Oysters, or Green 
Com Griddle Cakes (vegetable). Canned corn may be used; chop 
fine. 

Breakfast Relish. — Slice the cold roast beef thinly. Make 
a gravy with seasoning as follows: 

8 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

1 tablespoonful walnut or tomato catsup. 

1 tablespoonful of vinegar. 

1 teaspoonful currant jelly. 

1 teaspoonful made mustard. 
Put meat and all in a saucepan, cover and set in a kettle of 
water ; steam half an hour, keeping the water in the outer vessel 
boiling all the time. Very nice, especially if the beef is under- 
done beforehand. 




eGGS may be packed and preserved in several ways. 
Brine for Eggs.— 
1 pint of slaked lime. 

1 pint of salt. 

2 ounces cream-tartar. 
4 gallons of water. 

Dip the eggs in melted tallow and cover with this brine. This 
rule is sufficient for 200 eggs. Pack them with small end down. 

Packing Eggs. — Dip in warm linseed oil. Dry and pack in a 
cool place. Pack in old oats, new ones will heat and spoil the 
eggs. Kegs or wooden boxes may be used. Set them upon sticks 
that there may be a free circulation of air. Begin about August 1 
to pack the freshly-gathered eggs, using those packed first when 
any are needed. 

A COATING of sweet oil and beeswax, 2 parts of oil to 1 of 
beeswax, is highly recommended. 

In breaking eggs, break them separately over a cup to be sure 
they are perfect. 

Egg shells may be used to settle coffee. 

Three minutes will boil eggs very soft. Five minutes will 
cook all hard except the yolk. New-laid eggs need one-half 
minute longer. Eight or ten minutes will boil perfectly hard for 
slicing. 

Eggs dropped in a dish of cold water will lie upon the side if 
fresh. 

Eggs broken in water may be prevented from "sticking" to 
the pan by keeping the pan in motion until nearly cooked. 

There is no more wholesome article of food than eggs prop- 
erly prepared, and it is impossible not to consider a raw egg far more 

(111) 



112 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

indigestible than a cooked one. A large proportion of albumen is 
tb.e most important single element of food in their composition. 

Smothered Egj?!*. — Pnt net quite as much hot butter and 
(ard, or ham dripping in a pan as for frying eggs in the ordinary 
way. Break the eggs to be used on a plate, and when the fat is hot 
slip tiicm into the frying pan evenly, not on one side, or the grease 
will slip out from under and tiiey will stick to the pan. Sprinkle 
with pepper and salt. Pour over them a teacupful of boiling 
water. Cover quickly with a closely fitting lid. Ltt them steam 
four or five minutes, or more, according to the degree of hardness 
required. They will be found nicely whitened over the top like 
eggs that have been dropped in boiling water, and much more 
palatable than those poached without fat. 

Poached Eggs. — To 3 pints of water add 1 tablespoonful of 
vinegar, and | teaspoonful salt. Use a shallow saucepan with muffin 
rings laid on the bottom. Break one egg into each ring, as this 
keeps the shape of the egg. Poach from three to five minutes. 
Take up carefully and serve on delicately toasted slices of bread 
that have been dipped in hot water and buttered. The vinegar and 
salt sets the whites of the egg quickly. Instead of toast, the eggs 
may be served carefully on a platter. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper and dot with bits of but or. Tb.c water should be boiling. 

Sour Eggs— CI er mail Style.— 1 tablespoonful butter, 1 
tablespoonful flour stirred into the butter in a hot saucepan until 
"well browned, i teacr.p vinegar filled up with water. Salt and 
pepper to taste. Pour into the browned flour and let boil up. 
Break the eggs in, one at a time, until the pan is full. Baste the 
top with this gra\'y until the eggs are cooked, either hard or soft, 
according to the taste. 

Egg Fricassee. — Slice the requisite number of hard-boiled 
eggs. Pile lightly in a dish and pour over them the following 
gravy or sauce. 

1 tablespoonful of flour. 

1 tablespoonful of butter rubbed smootlily in one 
pint of water. 

Season to taste. Milk may be used instead of* water to the 
great improvement of the dish. 



r\ 



EGGS. 113 

Pickled Eggs — Spiced, — Take as many hard-boiled eggs as 
will fill a small jar. Wheu cold remove the shells and pack closely. 
Scald some of the best vinegar with pepper, allspice, cloves and 
stick cinnamon, whole. Pour this boiling hot over the eggs, leaving 
the spice in. Be sure that the eggs are completely covered with 
the vinegar. Fasten up the jar for a month, seahng if necessary 
they will then be ready for use. At any time after being opened, 
if they should not be sufiSciently sharp, renew the vinegar. Serve 
with cold meat. 

Pickled Eggs. Plain. — Boil hard, remove the shell and 
cover with boiling hot vinegar. Let it stand twelve hours, and 
they are ready for use. Some cut the eggs in halves lengthwise. 
Nice for picnics, lunch, etc. 

Deviled Eggs. — Remove the shells from hard-boiled eggs; 
cut about ^ from the small end of each. Take out the yolks, mash 
with the pieces of whites and season highly with salt, pepper, mus- 
tard, a tablespoonful of melted butter, (salad oil if preferred) and a 
little vinegar. Mix thoroughly and fill into the cavities left by the 
yolks. Fill it all in, heaping each egg up well. Set each one on 
a lettuce leaf, and stand close together on a pretty flat dish. Very 
ornamental for lunch or evening party. Cut off a slice from the 
whites that they may stand firmly. 

Egg-Baskets. — Boil eggs hard, shell and cut neatly in half. 
Kemove the yolks and rub them to a paste with melted butter, 
pepper and salt. Chop very fine the meat of cold fowl, ham, dried 
beef or veal, and mix with the egg paste. Cut oS a slice from the 
hollow white to make them stand, fill with the paste, arrange close 
together on a flat dish and pour over them a gravy heated boiling 
hot, or cream sauce. If to be served with cold meats, omit the 
gravy and garnish with parsley. Nice for lunch or parties. 

Egg Toast. — Beat 4 eggs thoroughly, put 2 tablespoonfuls 
butter into a saucepan, when melted pour in the eggs. Stir con- 
stantly, adding a little salt. When thoroughly hot spread on slices 
of buttered toast. Serve at once. 

Shirred Eggs.— 
6 eggs. 
3 tablespoonfuls of gravy, chick en, turkey or roast beef. 



k'ik 



* 



114 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

1 teaspoonful of butter. 
4 or 5 slices of fried toast. 
1 heaping tablespoonful grated cheese. 
Melt the butter. When hot break into this the eggs, stir in 
the gravy, cheese and seasoning. S.tir quickly from the bottom, 
until the whole is a soft yellow mass. Have ready in the dish 
slices of fried toast. Heap the shirred eggs upon this, and serve 
before it hardens. 
Scalloped Eggs.— 
6 eggs. 
6 spoonfuls minced ham, (other cold meat may be 

used). 
1 spoonful chopped parsley. 



spoonful minced onion. 



8 spoonfuls cream. 
1 spoonful melted butter. 

^ cupful bread-crumbs, moistened with milk and a 
spoonful melted butter. 

Line the bottom of a small deej) dish, well buttered, with the 
soaked bread-crumbs, put upon these a layer of the ham with the 
onions and parsley. Set in the oven covered until smoking hot. 
Beat the eggs thoroughly, stir in the cream and 1 spoonful of 
melted butter, pour over the ham ; put the dish uncovered back 
into the oven and bake until the eggs are done. 

Scrambled Eggs. — Beat the eggs thoroughly, adding 1 table- 
spoonful of sweet milk for each egg. Season with pepper and salt 
and melt 1 teaspoonful of butter in a frying pan. Turn the eggs 
in, stir constantly until a light yellow mass. Serve quickly. 

Baked Eggs. — Break the eggs carefully into a buttered dish, 
sprinkle with pepper and salt, put a bit of butter on each and bake 
until the whites are well set. The eggs may be broken separately 
into gem irons, seasoned as above and baked. 

Ham and Eggs Fried.— Fry the ham nicely, break the eggs 
carefully into the gravy. Baste the eggs with the dripping, using 
a spoon, until the yolks are seared. When sufficiently cooked ar- 
range on a platter with the ham and serve. 

Steamed Eggs. — Butter a pie-plate and break in the eggs 



EGGS. 115 

carefully. Put in a steamer over boiling water and steam until 
done. If broken separately into patty-pans and steamed in the 
same manner they will be more ornamental. Eggs are lighter and 
more tender steamed than boiled. 

Hani and Eggs Baked. — ^ pound of cracker-crumbs mixed 
with ^ pound of lean ham minced. The ham may be either boiled 
or fried. Moisten with a little water and butter. Put the mixture 
in a baking dish (broad and shallow). Make depressions in it the 
size of an egg and break one egg into each depression. Bake a 
delicate brown in a hot oven. 

Hash and Eggs. — Hash is nice served in the same manner. 

Curried Eggs (India). — Fry 2 onions in butter, adding 1 tea- 
spoonful of curry powder. (See Soups.) Pour in 1 pint of broth 
or soup stock. Let stew until the onions are tender, then stir in 
a cupful of cream or milk slightly thickened with cornstarch, and 
a teaspoonf ul of sugar ; simmer a few minutes. Then lay in 6 or 
8 hard-boiled eggs cut in halves or quarters. Heat through, not 
boiling. Cocoa milk instead of cream improves the dish. Serve 
with rice. 

Omelets. — Keep a separate pan for omelets that it may 
be always bright and smooth and thus prevent any trouble in turn- 
ing out. 

Omelet — Plain. — 4 eggs, whites and yolks beaten sepa- 
rately, 2 tablespoonfuls of milk; 1 teaspoonful cornstarch. Dissolve 
the cornstarch in the milk, season with pepper and salt. Tiurn 
into a buttered frying-pan. When browned on the underside 
place a plate over the pan and turn the omelet out. May be 
baked instead. A cream sauce may be turned over it. 

Cream Sauce. — 

1 pint of rich milk. 
1 tablespoonful cornstarch. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 
Dissolve the cornstarch in part of the milk. Stir together and 
let it boil up, adding a pinch of salt. 

Tomato Omelet.— 

6 eggs well beaten. 

4 medium sized tomatoes. 



Il6 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Peel and chop the tomatoes, season with pepper and salt. Rub 
2 tablespoouf Ills of flour with 1 tablespoonful of butter and mix 
with the tomatoes. Stir into this the beaten eggs and cook as for 
other omelets. The tomatoes mi;st be chopj)ed very fine, and un- 
less they are thoroughly ripe should be slightly cooked before using. 

Bread Omelet. — Let a cup of sweet milk come to a boil 
and pour it over 1 teacupful of fine bread-crumbs. Break 6 eggs 
into a bowl, stir (not beat) till well mixed, then add to the bread 
and milk. Mix, season with salt and pepper, pour into a hot fry- 
ingpan with a tablespoonful of melted butter. Cover and cook 
slowly. It should be about one inch thick. Cut in squares and 
turn. Serve hot. This will make a breakfast for five persons. A 
nice change is to sprinkle the squares thickly with powdered sugar. 
Cracker may be substituted for the bread. 

Omelet Souffle.— 

6 eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately. 

6 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. 

1 tablespoonful any flavoring extract. 
Stir the yolks and sugar to a cream. Beat the whites to a 
stiff froth. Mix the two quickly. Heat 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 
in a frying-pan. When it bubbles pour in the omelet and cook 
like a plain one. Put over a slower fire, as it scorches easily. 
Loosen from the bottom and sides of the pan occasionally with a 
knife. Turn upon a hot dish, sift with powdered sugar and serve 
immediately, as it falls quickly. For an omelet mixed in this 
manner ten minutes will suffice to cook nicely. This makes a 
dainty dessert. If sent to the table in a warm dish there will be 
no danger of its becoming heavy, or falling. 

Green Corn Omelet. — Take 12 ears of green corn, 5 eggs, 
salt and pepper to suit. Split the middle of each row of corn and 
scrape from the cobs. Beat the eggs thoroughly. Take it by the 
tablespoonful, roU in bread-crumbs and fry a delicate brown, in 
butter. 

Omelet with Jelly {for Dessert).— Cook a plain omelet and 
when cooked spread half with jelly or jam of any kind. Fold and 
tiu-n out. Lay little squares of jelly aroimd it. Whipped cream 
may be spread over the top, making a delicious dish. 



EGGS. 117 

Cheese Omelet. — Butter and cut in quarters a sufficient 
number of slices of bread to line a medium-sized pudding dish. 
Sprinkle over small pieces of dry or stale cheese (fresh can be 
used of course), another layer of buttered bread, then more cheese, 
and so on until the dish is full. Make a custard of 1 pint of milk, 
2 eggs and a pinch of salt. Pour over the bread and cheese. 
Bake one-half hour in a quick oven. 

Apple Omelet— 
12 apples. 
^ cupful of butter. 
1 cupful of sugar. 
4 eggs well beaten. 
Bread-crumbs. 

Cook the apples as for sauce, stir in the butter and sugar. 
Let cool and add the beaten eggs. Butter a baking dish thor- 
oughly, strew the bottom and sides thickly with bread-crumbs; 
turn in the apple mixture, cover the top with bread-crumbs and 
bake. Turn out when done and grate sugar over the top. Nice 
dessert. 

Cabbage Omelet. — 4 eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately. 
To the yolks add 1 small teacup of sweet milk. Pepper and salt 
to taste. Stir in a cup of cold boiled cabbage, chopped fine. Have 
sufficient butter in a saucepan to cover the bottom. Stir the beaten 
whites into the mixtui'e. Pour into the hot butter and cook as f^^r 
other omelets. This is an appetizing side dish. 




Q0M^lMEM^Z. 



SAUGRS. 

^~V* AUCES are done when they boil from the side of the pan. 
•^^^ Olive Oil should always be added to a salad dressing be- 
J^"^ fore the vinegar is used, to prevent curdling; then add the 
vinegar, stirring constantly. 

Melted Butter, not hot, may be substituted for salad or olive 
oil. 

A Wooden Spoon, or fork is best to stir salads, and a wooden 
paddle, or even a stick, is better for gravies or sauces than a metal 
spoon. 

Keep a stalk of parsley growing all winter with the other 
house plants. A sprig from it now and then will be found very 
convenient for seasoning soups and gravies. 

The most common sweet herbs used in flavoring are thyme, 
mint, sweet marjoram, summer savory and sage. To prepare 
these, as well as parsley for winter use see Soups. 

Butter, and sauces containing eggs, should never boil, but 
simply come up to a cream. 

Fruit used for catsups should be perfect. Cook in porcelain 
kettles; bottle in glass or stone jars. Never use tin. 

Salads may be garnished with the whites of hard-boiled eggs 
cut in rings and laid each on a small lettuce leaf arranged on the 
edge of the dish, or hard-boiled eggs may be simply sliced and 
placed around the dish. 

Celery may be fringed by sticking several needles into a cork 
and combing the celery with this, or it may be split up with a sharp 
knife. Cut the celery in pieces two inches long. Throw in cold 
water to curl. 

(118) 



CONDIMENTS. II9 

Celery prepared thus may be seasoned with vinegar, pepper 
and salt and used as a salad. 

Celery seed can be used in place of fresh celery for seasoning. 
For Curry Powder, see Soups. A little curry powder is nice 
with maccaroni and cheese. Let each add it to suit his or her 
taste. 

Salad Dressing may be bottled and kept for use. 
Sauces are to be served with meats, fish, game and fowl. 
Crackers are nice served with salads. 
Cream Sauce or White Sauce. — 
2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 
2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
1 large cupful of milk or cream. 
Rub butter and flour smooth in a saucepan over the fire and 
add the boiling milk or cream gradually, stirring until all is smooth. 
Season with salt. 

White Sauce, plain, is made in the same manner, substitut- 
ing water for milk. 

These sauces are useful in many ways for codfish, vegetables, 
boiled fish, etc. 

White Sauce, for Fish or Game.— 
1 cupful of white soup-stock. 
1 cupful of cream or milk. 
1 tablespoonful of chopped onion. 

1 tablespoonful of lemon juice. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 
^ teaspoonful of pepper. 

Cook butter and onion together ten minutes ; stir in the flour 
and let froth up. Add the boiling stock; let it boil a minute, then 
add milk and seasoning. Boil up again, strain if desired; serve, 
adding the lemon juice last of all. This sauce may be used for 
boiled or baked fish, meats or game. 

Brown Gravy or Sauce. — Roll 4 tablespoonfuls of butter 
in flour; put in a stewpan, adding an onion, sliced thin. Let it 
brown together, and season with 1 teaspoonful of salt, half as much 



I20 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

pepper and the same amount grated lemon peel. Add to it 
by degrees. ^ pint water. Let boil and serve with meat or poul- 
try. Some like a pinch of sage added. Soup is better than water. 
Gravy for Hash. — This gravy may also be served with cold 
meats : 

^ pound of cold beef. 

^ pint cold water. 

1 small onion. 

1 teaspoonful of catsup. 

I teaspoonful of arrowroot or corn starch. 
Season to suit, with salt and pepper. After the gravy has 
simmered sufficiently , and extracted all the juice from the beef, 
strain carefully into the gravy — not allowing any of the beef or 
onion to remain in it. This will be found a great addition served 
with hashes or cold meats. 

Currant Jelly Sauce for Game or Roast Beef.— 

8 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

1 onion, small. 

1 bay leaf. 

1 sprig of celery. 

2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 
2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

1 pint of soup stock. 

1 half cup of currant jelly. 

Cook the butter and onion together until the onion begins to 
color. Add the flour and herbs and stir until brown ; then the 
soup-stock and vinegar. Season to taste with salt and pepper. 
Let it simmer twenty minutes, strain, and add the half cuj)of jellj', 
stirring it over the fire until it dissolves. 

Mint Sauce. — To be served with roast lamb and mutton: 

2 tablespoonfuls of fresh mint, chopped very fine. 
1 tablespoonful of white sugar. 

1 teacupful of cider vinegar. 

Put the vinegar and sugar into the gravy, stir in the mint and 
let it stand an hour before using. 

Drawn Butter Sauce. — Bub three teaspoonfuls of flour 
smooth in a little cold water and stir into a half-pint of boiling 



CONDIMENTS. 121 

water or white soup-stock ; let it boil up once or twice and add to 
it 1^ cup of butter cut in l)its; set it where it will melt gradually. 
Season with salt and pepper and remove. If the butter is to be 
served with fish, cut up several hard-boiled eggs and add to it. 
A little curry powder sprinkled in will convert this into a Curry 
Sauce. 

Carry Sauce, Burnt Butter.— Put 2 tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter into a saucepan over the fire ; when burned brown add ^ tea- 
cupful of vinegar, a little pepper and salt. This is nice for fish, 
salads or eggs. Especially nice for wilted lettuce. 

Caper Sauce. — Melt in a saucepan a piece of butter the size 
of an egg and add 2 even tablespoonfuls of sifted flour. Stir 
steadily until smooth, and add slowly 1 pint of milk or milk and wa- 
ter, or water alone. Add 2 tablespoonfuls of capers and a dash 
of Cayenne pepper. The juice of half a lemon is an addition. Nice 
for mutton or lamb. 

Lemon Sauce. — Make a drawn butter sauce ; cut a lemon 
into very thin slices, take out the seeds and stir the slices into the 
sauce; give it one boil, then serve over boiled fish, fowl or meat. 
Vinegar and a very little mustard may take the place of 4emon. 

Hollandaise Sauce. — Take 2 tablespoonfuls of flour rubbed 
smooth in a little cold water ; stir this in 1 j^int of water, place on 
the fire. When cooked add pepper, salt, 1 tablespoonful of lemon 
juice and the yolks of two eggs. Set back on the stove and add 
^ cup of butter; stir all the time until this dissolves. 

A little mustard may be added if liked. 

Serve with fish. Capers make the above delicious for boiled 
Iamb. 

Maitre d'Hotel Butter.— 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 

Juice ^ lemon. 

Cream the butter. Add the parsley and lemon juice. Spread 
over the fish and let soak in. This is nice also for porterhouse or 
other steaks. 

White Celery Sauce for Boiled Poultry. Boil 5 or 6 
heads of celery (cutting off the gi-een tops and chop the remainder 



122 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

in inch long bits,) boil in 1 pint of water untU tender. Mix 1 table- 
spoonful of flour with a httle milk, and stir into a pint of cream 
or milk. Add 1 tablespoonf ul of butter, and pour into the celery. 
Season with salt and let it just boU up. 

Oyster Sauce. — Put ^ pint of milk into a stewpan over the 
fire. Kub 1 tablespoonful of flour with ^ cup of butter. When 
the milk boils put with it a pint of small oysters, then pour over 
the butter and flour ^ a pint of boiling water, stirring all the time. 
When smooth, add it to the milk and oysters. Season with salt, 
pepper, and serve with boiled meat, turkey or fowl. 

Horse-radish Sauce (For Roast Beef). — 
4 tablespoonfuls grated horse-radish. 
2 tablespoonfuls sweet cream. 

Season with a little mustard and salt. Mix and add 4 table- 
spoonfuls best vinegar. Mix and stir weU. 

Egg Sauce.— 

2 hard-boiled eggs mashed fine. 
1 tablespoonful melted butter mixed with the eggs. 
|- teacupful mOk. 

1 tablespoonful of flour made smooth with milk. 
Stir all together. Heat to boiling point and serve, first sea- 
soning with salt and pepper. A boiled onion chopped fine is some- 
times added. Send up with fresh fisli. Or, omit the onion and 
add 1 teaspoonful mustard. 

Onion Sauce. — Parboil 4 or 5 onions in water. Drain. Cover 
with mOk. Let them boil gently one-half hour. Turn off the 
milk. Chop the onions fine. Put 1 tablespoonful of butter into 
the saucepan. Stir in 1 teaspoonful of flour smoothly. Add the 
milk by degrees. Stir until it thickens. Add the onions and let 
it boil up. Serve with rabbits, tripe, boiled poultry, or boiled fresh 
meat. 

Chilli Sauce.— 

1 peck large ripe tomatoes. 
16 green peppers. 

4 large onions. 

6 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls salt. 



CONDIMENTS. 1 23 

2 tablespoonfuls ground cinnamon. 

1 tablespoonful ground cloves. 

1 tablespoonful black pepper. 

4 cups cider vinegar. 

1 tablespoonful ground allspice. 
Chop fine, or the tomatoes can be simply cut up with a knife. 
Add the sugar and salt and boil down quite thick. From two to 
three hours will suffice. When nearly done add the vinegar and 
spices and boil a short time longer. Bottle. 
Shrimp Sauce. — 

1 pint of broth or water. 

1 heaping tablespoonful butter. 

1 heaping tablespoonful flour, 

J can of shrimps. 

Yolk of 1 egg. 
Stir the flour and butter together over the fire. When this 
boils up add the broth or water. Let it cook until thick two or 
three minutes. Drop in the yolk of an egg and beat. Season with 
salt and pepper, and put in the canned shrimps. 

Mushroom Sauce. — I pint of mushrooms cut in bits. If 
canned, drain from their liquor and fry with 1 tablespoonful of 
butter. Season with pepper and salt. When slightly colored draw 
to one side of the pan. Put in a heaping spoonful of flour and rub 
smooth with hot butter. When the flour is a little browned pour 
the mushroom liquor in gradually, adding a few tablespoonfuls of 
water. If fresh, pour in a cup of boiling water, covering the 
mushrooms. Let all boil up together and squeeze in the juice of 
a lemon. Serve with beefsteak or roast meats. This sauce may 
be poured over a beefsteak. Nice with poultry. 

Parsley Sauce. — Boil a bunch of parsley a minute or so in 
salted water. Drain. Chop fine, omitting the stems. Stir this 
into drawn butter, sauce or melted butter, allowing 2 small table- 
spoonfuls of leaves to |- a pint of the sauce. Serve with boiled 
fowl, boiled fish or boiled veal. 

Lobster Sauce. — Make a rich drawn butter sauce, seasoning 
highly with blades of mace and whole pepper. Take a cold boiled 
lobster, chop the meat of the body fine and rub through a colander 



124 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

into the butter. Eub the spawn smooth with a little butter. Cut 
the flesh off claws and tail into dice and stir iu. Let all boil up 
and serve with fresh salmon, or other boiled fish. 

AnchOTj Sauce. — Stir 2 tablespoonfuls of anchovy essence 
into a cup of drawn butter. Let it boil up. If not rich enough 
add a little melted butter, or an anchovy may be soaked an horn- 
in cold water, and then put in ^ pint of cold water and brought to 
a simmer until the fish dissolves. Strain. Add 2 tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar and ^ cup melted butter. 
Spiced Mustard. — 

^ pound mustard. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

1 teaspoonful each of ground cinnamon, allspice and 

cloves. 
1 small teaspoonful of salt. 
Mix well. Add good vinegar until the desired consistency. 
Put in a glass pickle jar and let it stand one week before using. 
Prepared Mustard. — 

1 pint of good vinegar. 
^ pound of mustard. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
1 tablespoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful white pepper. 
Let the vinegar come to a boil. Stir in the other ingredients, 
and let the mixture boil five minutes. 

Tomato Mustard. — Make a tomato catsup, strain through a 
sieve, and thicken to suit with mustard flour. Simmer a short 
time. Bottle for use. 

French Mustard. — Slice 1 large onion into 1 cupful of vinegar 
and leave a day or two. Pour off the vinegar and add to it — 
1 teaspoonful pepper. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 
Thicken with mustard flour to the proper consistency, first 
rubbing the mustard smooth in a little vinegar. A little salad oil 
is considered an improvement by many. Bottle, cork closely and 
wait a week before using. 



CONDIMENTS. 125 



gat:"sups. 

Tomato Catsup — Unrivalled. — | bushel tomatoes. BoiJ 
three hours. Strain out skius aucl seeds and add: 

3 pints vinegar. 
^ pound salt. 

^ pound black pepper. 

1 tablespoonful Cayenne pepper. 

2 tablespoonfuls ground cloves. 

4 tablespoonfuls allspice. 
2 pounds brown sugar. 

Boil one hour. Cannot be excelled. 2 tablespoonfuls of 
celery seed is an addition. 
Tomato Catsup (II).— 

1 gallon ripe tomatoes. 

2 tablespoonfuls salt. 

4 tablespoonfuls black pej)per. 

4 tablespoonfuls yellow mustard. 
^ tablespoonful allspice. 

1 pint vinegar. 

Cook well. Strain thin, and boil four hours. 2 large onioij 
may be boiled in the catsup and removed whole before bottling. 

Cucumber Catsup. — Grate large, green cucumbers on a horse- 
radish grater, drain well, salt to taste and pepper strongly, first 
putting through a sieve to remove seed. Add an abundance of 
grated horse-radish and sufficient vinegar to make the consisteucv of 
tomato catsup. 

Bottle, keep in a cool place. Very appetizing. May be made 
without the horse-radish, iu which case do not season until ready to 
use, as salt injures the vinegar. 

Grape Catsup.— 

5 pounds of ripe grapes, picked from the stems. 

3 pounds of sugar. 
1 pint of vinegfir. 

1 tablespoonful each of cinnamon, pepper and cloves. 
^ teaspoonful of salt. 



126 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Boil the grapes and strain through a sieve to remove seeds and 
skins. Add the other ingredients and boil until thick. 
Cherry Catsup.— 

1 pint of cherry juice. 

I pound of sugar. 

1 teaspoonful of ground cinnamon. 

1 teaspoonful ground cloves. 

A dash of Cayenne pepper. 
Boil to a thick syrup and bottle. A nice way of using up the 
surplus juice left in canning cherries. 

Mushroom Catsup.— Put a layer of fresh mushrooms in a 
deep dish, sprinkle a little salt over, then another layer of mush- 
rooms and salt alternately until the mushrooms are used up. Let 
this stand several days, then mash fine and to each quart put 1 
tablespoonful of vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of black pepper and ^ 
teaspoonful cloves. Turn into a stone jar, set the jar in a kettle 
of boiling water and let boil two hours, then strain without squeez- 
ing the mushrooms. Boil the juice a quarter of an hour, skim well, 
let stand a few hours to settle ; strain carefully through a sieve, 
bottle and cork tight. Keep in a cool place. 

Waluut Catsup. — Procure tlie green walnuts by the last of 
June; prick thoroughly and cover in a jar with strong salt and 
water for a week or ten days, stirring often. Bruise to a pulp and 
turn boihng vinegar over them. Let them remain covered with 
vinegar several days, stirring up each day. Then put through a 
colander into a kettle, add a cupful of fresh vinegar, and season 
highly in the proportion of 2 tablespoonfuls of pepper, 1 of nut- 
meg, 1 of allspice, 1 of cloves, together with a dash of Cayenne, to 
each quart of catsup. Boil one hour. Bottle and cork when 
cold. 

Cold Catsup.— 

^ peck of ripe tomatoes, chopped fine. 

1 cupful grated horse-radish. 

^ cupful of salt. 

1 cup mustard seed. 

2 red peppers, chopped fine. 

1 cupful nasturtium seed, chopped. 



CONDIMENTS. 127 

1 cupful chopped onion. 
1 cupful sugar, brown. 
1 quart of vinegar. 
8 stalks of celery, chopped fine. 
Celery seed may be substituted. 
1 tablespoonful black pepper. 
1 tablespoonful powdered cinnamon. 
1 teaspoonful powdered cloves. 
Mix well, and bottle without cooking. 

Green Tomato Catsup.— 

7 pounds of green tomatoes, chopped. 

1 quart of vinegar. 

4 red peppers. 

BoU together one and a half hours. Then add 

1 pound of sugar, brown. 

2 tablespoonfuls of mustard. 

1 teaspoonful ground cloves. 

2 tablespoonfuls of salt. 

1 tablespoonful of allspice. 

1 tablespoonful of cinnamon. 

Boil as long as three hours. Put up in bottles or cans and 
seal. Serve with meats, excellent. 

Tomato Soy. — Take ripe tomatoes, medium sized, prick with 
a fork, lay in a deep dish sprinkling each layer well with salt. Let 
them stand four or five days, then remove and put in vinegar for 
one night. Drain off the vinegar and to each peck of tomatoes add 
^ pint mustard seed, ^ ounce of cloves and 1 ounce of black pepper. 
Pack the tomatoes in a jar with a layer of sliced onions to a layer 
of tomatoes, dredging each liberally with the spices and mustard 
seed. In ten days they will be ready for the table. 

Spiced Tomatoes.— 

2 pounds of ripe tomatoes, peeled. 
1 pound of brown sugar. 

\ pint of cider vinegar. 

1 dozen cloves. 

2 dozen kernels allspice. 

Put all together in a preserving kettle over a slow fire. When 



128 THREE ]MEALS A DAY. 

the tomatoes are well cooked take out iu a dish to cool and let the 
syrup boil. When the tomatoes are cold, return to the syrup and 
boil until they are dark red in color. Eemove again and let the 
syrup boil until the consistency of molasses. When thoroughly 
cold, bottle and seal in jars. 

Spiced Currants or Curraut Catsup.— 

5 pounds of currants, picked from the stem and 

crushed. 

3 pounds of brown sugar. 
^ pint of vinegar. 

1 tablespoonful of cinnamon. 

1 teaspoouful of cloves. 

1 tablespoonful of allspice. 
Boil hard half an hour. 
Spiced Grapes. — 

10 pounds of grapes. 

6 pounds of sugar. 

1 quart of vinegar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of cloves. 

4 tablespoonfuls of cinnamon. 

Boil slowly until the fi'uit is well broken, then rub through a 
colander. Put up in glasses and seal hot with egg paper. 

Spiced Gooseberries. — Prepare same as spiced grapes. 

Spiced Cherries. — Make same as spiced grapes, but do not 
put through colander. 

Gooseberry Catsup. — 

10 pounds of ripe gooseberries. 

5 poimds of brown sugar. 

3 pints of vinegar. 

Boil in vinegar, ^ the sugar and the berries, uutil they are 
very soft, and rub through a colander to remove the skins, then 
add the remainder of the sugar and 

2 tablespoonfuls of cinnamon. 
1 teaspoonful of cloves. 

3 nutmegs, grated. 

1 tablespoonful of allspice. 
Cook until the required consistency. 



CONDIMENTS. 129 

Spiced Peaches. — 

Pare, stone and halve 9 pounds of peaches. Add 
4 pounds of sugar. 
1 pint of vinegar. 

1 teaspoonful of cloves (whole cloves). 
3 or 4 sticks of cinnamon and mace. 
Let it boil one half hour, or less if they grow too soft. 

SALaADS. 

Nonpareil Salad Dressing. — This sauce may be bottled, 
corked and kept for several weeks and will be found very conven- 
ient to have on hand. 

8 yolks of eggs, well beaten. 

1 cupful of white sugar. 

1 tablespoonful made mustard. 

^ teacupful of rich cream, (milk can be used as a 

poor substitute). 
1 tablespoonful of salt. 
1 tablespoonful of black pepper. 
A dash of Cayenne. 
Mix thoroughly. Put over the fire 
1|- pints of vinegar. 
1 cupful of butter. 
Let it bon and pour over the other ingredients, stirring all the 
time. This is nice for lettuce as well as cabbage and other slaws. 
1 tablespoonful made mustard may be added. 4 whole eggs may 
be used instead of 8 yolks, though the color will not be as rich. 
Creani Dressing for Salad.— 

1 cupful sweet fresh cream. 

1 spoonful cornstarch or fine flour. 

2 whites of eggs. 

8 spoonfuls vinegar. 

2 spoonfuls salad oil or melted butter. 

2 spoonfuls powdered sugar. 

1 level spoonful salt. 

1 spoonful pepper. 

1 spoonful made mustard. 



130 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Heat the cream almost to boiling; stir in the flonr, pre\nous]y 
wet with cold milk. Boil eight minutes, stirring all the time; add 
sugar and take from the fire. When half cold beat in whipped 
whites of eggs. Set aside to cool. When quite cold whip in the 
oil, pepper, mustard and salt, and if the salad is ready add the 
vinegar and pour over it. Especially nice for lettuce, and very ex- 
cellent as a chicken salad. With this dressing use only the whits 
meat. If wished with more liquid add more vinegar for slaw. 
Mayonnaise Dressing.— 

2 yolks of eggs, well-beaten. 

i teaspoonfui mustard. 

1|- teaspoonfuls vinegar. 

^ teasj)oonful salt. 

Small half cupful salad oil. 

Pinch of red pepper. 
Have all the materials as cold as possible . Beat the egg and 
mustard one minute and begin adding the oil a drop at a time, 
beating continually. When like a jeUy add a little lemon juice, 
and begin with a few drops of vinegar at a time, beating all the 
while. If there is a tendency to curdle put back on ice a few min- 
utes. When the vinegar is used up add the salt and pepper; whip 
five minutes more. Pour into a glass or silver pitcher and keep on 
ice until served. This dressing will keep a long time, and may be 
made in advance when yolks are left over from baking. Cork the 
bottle with a glass stopper. 

By using the whites of eggs a white mayonnaise sauce is 
formed. Mayonnaise sauce is suitable for all kinds of salad, 
chicken, lettuce, tomatoes, etc. The yolks of two eggs will an- 
swer for every three guests, though this is a large allowance. 
Boiled Salad Dressing (cheai) and good).— 

1 heaping teaspoonfui mustard. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 

1 tablespoonful melted butter or salad oil. 

2 tablespoonfuls of cream or buttermilk, sweet milk 

or sour. 
6 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 
legg. 



CONDniENTS. 131 

Mix the mustard smoothly in part of the vinegar, add the 
remainder of the vinegar and sugar. Beat the egg and butter or 
oil together, stir in the cream or milk and pour into the -vdnegar 
and mustard, mixing well. Let it boil a few moments, stirring 
briskly. Cool before using. It will keep several days, is good and 
cheap, and can be used with lettuce or cold meat, fowl, potatoes, 
or any cold pieces are made palatable by using this dressing. 

Hot Cabbage Salad or Slaw. — Take a firm white head of 
cabbage, shred or chop enough to nearly fill a quart dish, sprinkle 
the top with | teaspoouful of black pepper and 2 or 3 tablespoon - 
fuls of white sugar. Put a small half cup of butter in a sauce- 
pan ; when it is browned stir in to it ^ cup of sour cream or milk, 
3 well-beaten eggs, 1 cup of vinegar. Let it boil a moment. Pour 
over the cabbage, cover and keep in a warm place until wanted. 

Cabbage Slaw with Cooked Dressing.— 
1 head of cabbage chopped fine. 
3 hard-boiled eggs chopped. 
Season with salt and pepper. 

Dkessing : 

3 eggs well-beaten. 
1 cupful vinegar. 

1 teacupful sweet cream (or milk). 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

Put the vinegar in a saucepan and let it b-oil, add the other 
ingredients. When the mixture is like custard pour boiling hot 
over the cabbage, stirring slowly. This is nice hot for dinner. It 
will answer also when cold for salad. 

Cold Slaw with Cold Cream Dressing.— Shred the cabbage 
fine, season with salt and pour over it the following dressing: 

4 tablespoonfuls of whipped c-ream, either sweet or 

sour. 
4 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
8 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 
1 teaspoonful mustard. 
Potato Salad Plain.— 

1 pint cold boiled potatoes chopped. 



132 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

1 small onion chopped. 
^ cup vinegar. 
1 teaspoonful melted butter. 
Parsley, salt and pepper to taste. 
One or two hard-boiled eggs chopped are also good. 
Potato Salad.— 

8 cold boiled potatoes sliced. , 

1 silver skinned onion cut fine and strewed between 
the sliced potato. 
Arrange in a glass dish and pour over it while hot the boiled 
salad dressing or the nonpariel dressing given in this department. 
Serve at once or allow the salad to become perfectly cold. A 
very tasteful lunch, or supper dish. Garnish with parsley, small 
pickled cucumbers, boiled beets or carrots cut in dice. 

Mayonnaise Potato Salad. — Make as above and pour over in- 
stead of the dressing Mayonnaise Sauce. 

Hot Potato Salad. — Boil potatoes in the skin. Peel im- 
mediately, cut in thin slices, put a layer in a dish, sprinkle while 
hot with vinegar and butter heated together. Season with pepper 
and salt and repeat with each layer until the dish is filled. This 
dish, if the potatoes are good, will be an appetizing dish when 
cold. Minced onions may be added. 
Lettuce Salad.— 

3 heads lettuce chopped. 
1 cupful boiling sweet milk. 
1 small teacupful vinegar. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

2 eggs well beaten. 

1 tablespoonful white sugar. 
1 teaspoonful celery essence. 
Salt and pepper to suit. 
Heat the milk and vinegar in separate vessels. When the 
vinegar boils put in the butter, sugar and seasoning. Boil up 
once and pour over the lettuce. To the hot milk add the eggs. 
Cook one moment after they begin to thicken. Pour this custard 
over salad, stir quickly, cover and set to cool. 

Cauliflower Salad. — Break a head of cauliflower into suit- 



CONDIMENTS. 133 

able pieces. Boil in salted water three-fourths of an hour and 
cool, or make use of the vegetable that may be left from dinner 
and serve with nonpareil or cream salad dressing, or boiled dressing. 
Celery Salad.— 

2 bunches celery. 
2 tablespoonfuls salad oil. 
2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 
^ teaspoonful each of salt and pepper. 
Lay the celery in cold water for an hour. Cut in inch lengths 
or chop coarsely. Mix the oil, vinegar and seasoning and stir 
thoroughly into the celery. Equal parts of celery and chopped 
cabbage may be used. 

Tomato Salad. — Peel and slice the tomatoes. Set them in 
a cool place, on ice if possible. 

1 egg beaten very light. 

2 teaspoonfuls of sugar. 

1 onion chopped fine. 

2 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 

, 1 tablespoonful of lemon juice. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls sweet oil. 
Pinch of Cayenne pepper. 

Mix thoroughly, adding the oil last. Pour over the tomatoes 
and garnish with hard-boiled eggs. This quantity of dressing will 
answer for one quart of shced tomatoes. 

Tomato Mayonnaise. — A mayonnaise dressing may be used 
instead. The tomatoes sHced half an inch thick and a little of 
the dressing put on each slice. 
Salmon Salad. — 

1 can fresh salmon. 

4 bunches celery (or an equal amount white cabbage 
may be used). 
Ghop as for chicken salad and pour over the following dressing : 

1 teaspoonful mustard. 

2 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 
2 yolks of eggs. 

Salt to taste, a little Cayenne pepper; mix thoroughly. 



134 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Chicken Salad.— 

1 large boiled chicken, cold. 

8 heads of celery, white part. 

Equal amount of white cabbage, chopped. 

1 or 2 heads of young lettuce if convenient. 

10 hard-boiled eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of ground mustard. 

1 teaspoonful of black pepper. 

I cupful salad oil or melted butter. 

^ teaspoonful salt. 

1 cupful of vinegar. 
Cut the dark and light meat of the fowl in small dice, remov- 
ing skin and fat. Chop the cabbage and lettuce. Mix all together 
well. For the dressing — rub the yolks of the eggs with the oil or 
butter (the oil taken from the liquor is better in this case than 
either). Stir in the mustard, salt, pepper and vinegar; pour this 
over the thicken and celery and mix thoroughly; shape in as 
compact form as possible and garnish with the whites of the eggs 
cut in rings, laying each one on a small leaf of lettuce, or garnish 
with a double row of olives. In this case, chop the whites of the 
eggs with the salad. 

Cabbage can be used in j3lace of celery, and the flavor im- 
proved by soaking an ounce of celery seed over night in the vine- 
gar to be used. 

Cream Chicken Salad may be made by following the above 
rule, except that the white meat alone must be used, and substitute 
for the above dressing the Cream Salad dressing. Do not mix 
tliis dressing with the meat, but pour it over the top. 
Chicken Salad (II).- 

1 full-grown chicken, boiled tender; when cold cut 

in bits. 

2 heads of lettuce, or an equal amount of white cab- 

bage. 
Dressing — 1 cup boiling water. 

1 spoonful corn starch, wet with cold water. 
1 tablespoonful fat, skimmed from the liquor. 
I cupful of vinegar. 



CONDIMENTS. 135 

1 teaspoouful made mustard. 

1 raw egg, well beaten. 

2 hard-boiled eggs. 

1 spoonful powdered sugar. 
1 teaspoouful black pepper. 

1 teaspoouful of salt. 

Omit fat a.nd skin of fowl. To the boiling water add the 
com starch; rub the yolks of hard-boiled eggs smooth in the fat 
and stir together with the other ingredients. Chop up the whites 
with the salad or reserve for garnishing. Eemove from the fire 
and whip in the beaten egg. Pour over the salad. Garnish as above. 

Mayonnaise Chicken Salad. — Mix chopped chicken and 
celery, 2 heads of celery to 1 fowl; arrange in a salad bowl and 
pour over it a Mayonnaise sauce. 

Veal Salad. — Boil a piece of veal ; the hock is good. Pick 
the meat from the bones and chop, not fine. Eub the yolks of 4 
hard-boiled eggs into a sir 00th paste. Add i teacupful of melted 
butter (some prefer olive oil), the same of vinegar, 2 tablespoon - 
fills of dry mustard, 1 tablespoonlul of sugar and 1 teaspoouful 
each of pepper and salt. Stir with the meat. Mince ^ as much 
celery, white lettuce or cabbage as meat; mix and add just before 
serving. Use the whites of the eggs cut in rings, and parsley for 
garnishing. 

Lobster Salad. Pick the meat from 1 or 2 lobsters ; cut in dice 
and mix with twice the quantity of finely chopped lettuce, blanched 
celery or white cabbage. Arrange lightly in a dish and pour over 
it almost any salad dressing — nonpareil, cream or mayonnaise or 
the following: 

2 yolks of eggs, hard-boiled. 
2 tablespoonfuls of olive oil. 

Rub together. 
1 teaspoouful of fine salt. 
1 teaspoonful made mustard. 
|- cupful of vinegar. 
Mix and stir slowly through the eggs. Pour over the salad. 
Garnish with sliced cucumber pickles, rings of white of eggs, or 
parsley, with beets cut iu fancy shapes. 



136 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Oyster Salad.— 

1 quart oysters. 
1 bunch celery. 

1 raw egg. 

Yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of olive oil, or melted butter. 

1 teaspoonful each of pei)per, salt and made mustard. 
^ cupful of vinegar. 

Whip the raw eggs with the oil or butter and sugar. Eub 
the hard-boiled yolks with the seasoning. Mix with the raw egg 
and beat in the vinegar slowly. 

Drain the oysters and cut in small pieces with a sharp knife ; 
cut the celery in bits. Mix together with ^ the dressing. Pour 
the rest of the dressing over the salad. Mix; garnish with olives, 
or arrange a large spoonful on a lettuce leaf and pour a little of the 
dressing on the top; arrange the leaves so filled upon a fancy plat- 
ter and serve. 

Sweet-bread Salad. — Boil sweet-breads, slice and mix with 
sliced boiled potatoes and celery; serve on lettuce with any preferred 
dressing. 

Salade a la Russe. — Cut up a variety of vegetables in salted 
water and boil tender. The idea is to have as many colors as 
possible. Beets must be boiled separately and whole to save their 
color, cutting them afterward. Drain, season with pepper, butter 
and vinegar. A few cooked green peas are an improvement. 
Heap in a salad dish in the form of a pyramid and cover lightly 
with nonpareil., mayonnaise or boiled dressing. 

Egg Salad. — Two large heads of lettuce, coarsely minced; 8 
hard-boiled eggs, 1 small teacupful of sweet cream, or 2 table> 
spoonfuls salad oil (or melted butter), vinegar, mustard, pepper 
and salt to taste. "When lettuce cannot be obtained, part of a 
small head of cabbage may be substituted, but this must be shaved 
with a sharp knife, not minced. 

Cheese Salad. — When lettuce is obtainable cheese salad 
may be made after the above formula, omitting the eggs, and using 
finely minced cheese instead. 

Either of the above salads will be found highly palatable and 
nourishing in the absence of meat. 



CONDIMENTS. 137 

Crab Salad.— 

6 boiled crabs. 

1 cupful chopped white cabbage. 

I" cupful salad dressing, cream or nonpareil. 

Pick the meat out of the crabs, cutting the best parts in 
pieces. Rub the remainder in the salad dressing; add a little mus- 
tard ; mix cabbage and dressing thoroughly, and stir in the crab 
meat lightly. 

Cucumbers. — Peel, sHce thin and lay in salted water for a 
short time. Serve with vinegar, pepper and salt ; ^ as many onions 
sliced with them is an improvement for most persons. Thick sweet 
cream may be added. If not perfectly fresh keep in cold water for 
an hour or two. 

Lettuce. — Arrange fresh crisp lettuce leaves in a deep dish. 
Slice hard-boiled eggs over the top. Serve with vinegar, sugar and 
a pinch of salt. 

Lettuce is nice with mayonnaise sauce. 

Water Cress Salad.— Wash and pick over the cress, shake 
off the moisture and serve. At table pick the twigs apart and 
season with sugar, pepper, salt, vinegar and oil. This, with 
crackers and cheese, is sufficient for one course. A window garden 
of cress kept growing through the winter will be found very useful 
for salads and garnishes. 

Hot Lettuce Salad. — ^ cup sour cream, fill the cup with 
vinegar, 1 egg well beaten ; turn all into a frying pan with a little 
melted butter, or dripping, and a pinch of salt. Have the lettuce 
prepared, and when the mixture boils pour in the prepared lettuce. 
Stir well together. 

Tomatoes Raw.— Peel, slice thin, pile in a pretty dish, 
sprinkling salt and pepper between the layers, and put in the cellar 
or on ice, two or three hours, to cool. In serving let each guest 
add sugar and vinegar to suit the taste. A few slices of large 
yellow tomatoes scattered among the red improves the appearance 
of the dish. 

Bean Salad. — String and wash the beans ; cook tender in 
boiling water; remove to cold water to render crisp ; drain and 
cool two hours before serving. Season with pepper, salt and vin- 



I3S THREE MEALS A DAV. 

egar. Drain before serving and add any preferred salad sauce — 
nonpareil or boiled salad dressing. Cold boiled beans left from 
dinner may be served in the same manner. 

Horse-radish for Winter.— Mix in the following propor- 
tions : 

1 large cupful grated horse-radish. 

2 tablespoonfuls white sugar, 
i teaspoonful salt. 

1^ pints cold viuegar. 
Bottle and seal. 
Spiced Viuegar.— 

1 quart vinegar. 

2 tablespoonfuls grated horse-radish. 
1 ounce v^rhole pepper. 

1 ounce whole cloves. 

1 ounce whole allspice. 

2 ounces white mustard seed. 
2 onions, chopped fine. 

Simmer altogether five minutes. When cold this may be used 
for cabbage, beets, pickled eggs, etc. [Various fruit vinegars, 
raspberry, etc., will be given with table drinks.] 
Cabbage and Beet Salad.— 

1 raw cabbage chopped fine. 

1 quart of chopped red beets, boiled. 

1 teaspoonful black pepper. 

2 cupfuls brown sugar. 
1 tablespoonful salt. 

Mix. Cover with vinegar and keep in a close jar. 

Beef Salad. — Cut in very thin, small slices and put in a dish 
with a sprinkling of chopped parsley. Mix in a bowl, one part 
vinegar to two parts oil, or melted butter. Add pepper, salt and 
mustard to taste. Beat together and pour over the meat. 



*>O0 



a^^J^ISHE^. 



aARNISHES when tastefully used, add much to the appe- 
tizing and artistic effect of the whole table; though it is 
never wise to carry the art of garnishing or decorating any 
dish to an extreme.' 

HoLLANDAisE PoTATOEs for instance, while very tasteful would 
be a useless waste of time and .labor for any but state occasions. 

The simple spray of green that is in reach of all, will add a 
charm to the plainest repast. 

A List of the garnitures most commonly used is given below. 
To Garnish Fish. — Saratoga potatoes, potato balls, potato 




BAKED FISH. 

croquettes. Arrange either of these around the edge of platter and 
serve with the fish. 

Hollandaise Potatoes. — Arrange in tiny pyramids of 5 or 7 
balls at intervals around the edge of the platter, or in a close 
double border. Serve with the fish. The j^otatoes may be mixed 
for variety, with carrots and beets prepared in the same manner. 

Pickled Beets sliced j)laiii, or cut in fancy shapes. Carrots 
alternated with the beets. A pretty contrast. Sliced lemon may 
be used with sprigs of green. 

(139) 



I40 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Sliced Lemon. — Arrange around the platter alone, or alter- 
nate with small clusters of curled lettuce, parsley or water-cress. 
The slices may be plain or notched. 

Parsley, Lettuce, (curled variety), water-cress, celery tops 
and curled celery may be used alone; or, with lemon as above, or 
arrange a vine of parsley, cress or celery, around the edge of the 
platter ; laying one or two sprays of green or a slice of lemon on 
the fish itself. Curled lettuce may be arranged in clusters around 
the edge of the platter with spaces between, or with sliced lemons 
or beets. 

Fried Oysters may be arranged in a double row around the 
edge of the platter and two or three served with fish. 

Sheep- Sorrel is pretty and appropriate. Fennel (garden) is 
also used. Take boiled or fried fennel for mackerel and salmon 
and serve with the fish. Eggs, hard-boiled and sliced, may be 
used alone, or alternated with green same as lemon. 




MACKEREL. 

Various Small Fish. — Arrange as artistically as may be upon 
the plate with bits of green or lemon. 

BEIB.FSTRAK. 

Potatoes garnish beefsteak nicely prepared in any of the ways 
mentioned for fish. 

Lyonnaise potatoes with onions, serve any style of potatoes 
with steak. 

Mushrooms broiled are an extra garnish. Serve with the 
steak. 

Brussel Sprouts and cauliflower should be separated in small 
pieces. 



GARNISHES. I4I 

String-Beans boiled or pickled. 
Lemon sliced, alternated with green of any kind. 
Tenderloin steak is very nice garnished with lemon and Sara- 
toga potatoes. Serve the potatoes with the steak. 

N - 




mmmmmmmimmammemm 




PORTERHOUSE STEAIi. 

A Porterhouse Steak may have a couple of slices of lemon 
laid upon it or a spray of parsley; either of these are, without far- 
ther garnishing, nice. 

CHOPS, GUTLaR^S, GOIaO FOWIa, 
GOLaD mhats. 

Currant Jelly or any other bright jelly laid in spoonfuls 
around the dish and a little dotted over the meat. This way of 
garnishing is especially nice for cold tongue or cold sliced meat of 
any kind. If the jelly is firm enough to cut in diamonds so much 
the better. 

Stock Jellies of all colors are a very suitable decoration for 
meats.- 

Parsley ^nd Lemon sliced may be used alone or alternated as 
for fish. 

Dainty sprays of parsley may be placed lightly between the 
chops, cutlets or cold fowl joints. 

For Sliced Meats decorate the edge of the platter with green. 
Clusters of parsley or curled lettuce may be placed at the ends only 
of the platter. 

Beets sliced and pickled may be used as for fish alone, or al- 
ternated with carrots, parsley, lemon, etc. 

Anchovies are an appetizing relish and garnish. Cucumber 
pickles, small, are also used. 



142 



THREE MEALS A DAY. 



ROAST BE^RF, OR V^AIa. 

Curled Celery, or celery tops, arranged in any of the ways 
given in this chapter. Lemon and beets shced, pickled carrots, 
arranged alone or alternated with any green. 




■:.!J:^N>tS 



ROAST BEEF. 

Currant Jelly of different colors is nice for garnishes. 

Saratoga Potatoes, Potato Balls, Potato Puffs, Potato 
Croquettes, Hollandaise Potatoes. Arrange any of these around 
the edge of the dish and serve*4^ 

ROAST PORK. 

Any kind of green garnishes. 

Fried Apples in round slices or apple fritters may be used for 
a border and also served wdth the pork. 

Koast Pig (Whole). — Trim the edge of platter with green. If^ 




roast pig. 

it is to be served at table with the head, a roast apple, an ear of 
roast corn, or a lemon, is placed in the mouth. 



GARNISHES. 



143 



Mutton. — Rice in balls, alternate with spoonfuls of bright 
colored jellies. Lettuce, cresses, or parsley are nice garnishes. 
Capers are nice served with this dish. 




LEG OF MUTTON. 



Game. — Currant jelly arranged as a border, either iu spoonfuls, 
or cut iu dice. Stock jellies used in the same manner (color to 
suit). Green of various kinds arranged to suit the taste. 

Roast Turkey. — Cranberry jelly in spoonfuls or cut in forms. 




ROAST TURKEY. 

Link sausage roasted with the turkey, aud arranged around the 
platter with clusters of parsley at the ends and sides. 

Fowls. — Lemons sliced, arranged iu some of the above styles. 
Currant jelly, stock jellies, parsley, lettuce, celery, cresses, are all 
excellent. 

BoEiED Beef. — Beets and carrots sliced, forcemeat balls, bread 
balls, and any of the usual green garnishes.. 

Haji Cold.— Eggs boiled hard and sliced. Lemons sliced. 
Any of the green garnishes neatly arranged. 



144 



THREE -MEALS A DAY. 



Cold Corn Beef. — Any kind of giecii garnish may be used; 
also beets pickled and sliced, or cut leugthwiser 

Salads, — Decorate with cresses, or any green suitable for 




SALAD. 

garnishing. Arrange the salad in a shapely mass on the dish. 
Let the edge be ornamented with cresses, thyme, celery or lettuce, 
one or all of these may be used. 

Olives. — A double row of these around the edge of the dish 
is a very suitable decoration for a chicken salad. Serve 2 or 8 of 
them to each person with the salad. 

Capers also may be used. 

Lemons sliced either alone or with green garnishes. Salad of 
any kind may be arranged in a bed, or nest of large curled lettuce 




BOILED LOBSTER. 



leaves, leaving the edges of these to form a fresh green border to 
the whole. This is especially pretty where a salad bowl is used. 



GARNISHES. 



145 



A cluster of green may be placed in the center, or a slice of 
lemon. 

Boiled Lobster.— Arrange in a rather deep plate in a nest of 
curled lettuce leaves. Sliced hard-boiled eggs form a pretty con- 
trast with the green. 

Raw Oysters. — Lemon sliced. 

Cakes. — Rules for frosting may be found among frostings. 
Plain cake may be trimmed with smilax starting from the center 
and trailing to the edge. A border of smilax may be laid aromid 
the edge of the plate for any cake. Beautiful moss is sometimes 




CAKE. 

used or sprays of myrtle. In the opening left by the tube a cluster 
of flowers may be placed. A lace paper is put under some nice 
cakes, notably, a bride's cake. 

Table decorations require study. They are only an improve- 
ment when appropriate. A few slices of lemon, or rings of the 
whites of boiled eggs, a bit of cress, celery or thyme, are an appe- 
tizing addition to the vaauds of a neat and well-arranged table. 
However, they are not indispensable and may at all times be 
omitted. 



10 



c/^OTATOES for baking should be pricked before putting in the 
|v^ oven to allow the escape of steam, and thus prevent burst- 
•^— » ing. 

Vegetables of all kinds are better for being kept in cold water 
a short time after being prepared for cooking. This is especially 
nice for cabbage, cauliflower and pared potatoes. 

Cauliflower should be tied up in a piece of white mosquito 
netting, to preserve its shape while boiling. 

Canned Vegetables are safer to be opened and turned into a 
strainer before cooking. Pour a cup of cold water over them and 
let drain thoroughly. Do this at least an hour before cooking al- 
lowing the air to have free access to them. Even with tomatoes 
this is necessary as it completely removes the juices that may have 
caught some corrosive quality from the can itself. Canned peas, 
com, beans and asparagus should alwtiys be prepared in this way. 

Onions may be peeled without the shghtest annoyance, by 
holding them under water while handling and slicing. 

Drtkt) Corn should be soaked over night. 

Vegetables are usually put in boiling water, unless expressly 
stated otherwise. 

Perfectly fresh vegetables need boiling less time than those 
that have been kept. 

Cold sliced potatoes are better for sprinkling a tablespoonful 
of flour over them while frying. 

Fried Cabbage is better if a little flour is stirred in five min- 
utes before serving. 

Old and Poor Potatoes are greatly improved by paring and 
soaking them in cold water for several hours previous to boihng. 
Good potatoes should be cooked without peeling. 



VEGETABLES. I47 

Wateey Potatoes should Lave a piece of lime as lar^e as a 
Len's egg put in the kettle, however watery the potatoes may 
have been when the water is poured off the potatoes will be per- 
fectly dry and mealy = 

Cabbage may have its disagreeable odor, while boiling, entire- 
ly done away with by tying a lump of charcoal in cloth and drop- 
ping in the kettle with it, 

Greess boiling may have the odor absorbed by tying a piece 
of bread the size of an egg in cloth and dropping in the kettle. 

Asparagus if very tender may be tied in bunches and set up in 
water, leaving the tops above to be c-ooked by steam: in tbi^; way 
they will not boil to pieces. 

Good Potatoes when cut will show a light cream color, and a 
white froth will be the result of rubbing the cut surfaces together. 
Eeject that variety where drops of water appear. Select those of 
uniform size to cook together. 

Baked Potatoes if wanted in a hurry may be partially boiled, 
then baked. 

CooKTSG Vegetables too long ruins the flavor, and it is usual- 
ly better not to have too much water left 10 pour o5. 

Potatoes sliced in each kettle full of doughnuts will keep the 
odor from penetrating the house, and the lard from burning. 

Cabbage may be kept sweet and good for winter by malnTig a 
brine strong enough to hold up an egg: then cut the heads of cab- 
bage in halves and put in the brine. Press down- 

Vegetables that are strong can be made much milder by ty- 
ing a bit of bread in a clean cloth and bjiling with them. 

Seevikg Vegetabt.es. — These should t-e cooked with care that 
their flavor may be preserved. 

Baked Potatoes, or those boiled in the skin siiOTili Lave a 
large folded napkin laid in the dish, the comers ramei over them, 
to keep them from becoming soggy. A smaller fringed napkin 
shoidd line the dish containing Saratoga potatoes for the same 
purpose. 

Masttkp Potatoes should be rounded up and dotted with black 
pepper. 

A LrrrLF minced parsley is pretty strewn over stewed potatoes. 



148 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Silver vegetable dishes will be found very desirable as aside 
from the danger of breakage attendant on china, a silver dish 
well heated will keep food hot for a much longer time. 

POXATORS. 

Steamed Potatoes. — Take good potatoes and steam with the 
skins on, peel by the aid of knife and fork, place in a tureen or 
platter, spread butter over them freely, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. Set in the oven to melt the butter. Very nice but much 
better if a cup of sweet cream is turned over them just before serv- 
ing. 

Mashed Potatoes. — Peel, boil, drain and mash fine, season 
with salt. Butter and milk or cream are good additions, but vig- 
orous pounding with the addition of a little hot water will make an 
extra dish. The secret of mashing potatoes is to have all the 
utensils hot as possible. 

Mashed Potatoes, (II).— Boil 8 medium sized potatoes, mash 
fine with potato masher, then add a cup of hot milk in which a 
tablespoonful of butter has been melted, 1 teaspoonful of salt and 
^ teaspoonful of white pepper, beat up with a fork or spoon until 
perfectly light and smooth, at least five minutes, turn into a dish 
and serve. A wooden spoon is best. 

Boiled Potatoes. — Peel carefully, removing all black specks, 
and lay in cold water an hour before using. Put over boiling wa- 
ter allowing 1 teaspoonful of salt to each quart. Boil steadily. 
When done, drain off the water, cover with a clean cloth and dry 
at the back of the stove about ten minutes, shaking the saucepan 
two or three times. This method will ensure dryness. Bermuda 
potatoes may be cooked as above, leaving the peeling on. Peel 
and serve whole. 

Potato SllOW. — Boil potatoes as directed above. Mash and 
prepare according to Mashed Potatoes II. Kub through a heated 
colander into a deep dish that it may fall lightly and in good shape. 
Put in the oven a few minutes till heated and serve very hot. 

Potato Balls Baked.— Boil and mash as before, and form 
immediately into baUs the size of an egg. Butter a dripping-pan 



VEGETABLES. 149 

(a sheet of tin is better). Brush over the balls with the yolk of 
an egg, and brown quickly in a hot oven for five or ten minutes. 
Slip off with a knife on a hot platter and serve at once. 

Potatoes Baked in Milk— Dutch Style. — Cut enough pota- 
toes in thick slices to half fill a deep dish or two quart pan. Drop 
in butter the size of an egg cut into bits, a teaspoonful of salt and 
a tablespoonful of parsley. Fill the pan up with milk and bake 
two hours. The milk remaining in the pan should be thick as 
cream and the potato a light brown on top. 

ScallopeJ Potatoes. — Prepare as for potatoes baked in 
milk, and cover the top with a thick layer of bread-crumbs with 
bits of butter. Turn in 1 cup of rich milk. Cover and bake 2 
hours, removing the cover and browning. 

Stuffed Potatoes. — Mince some cold meat very fine and season 
to taste. Choose large potatoes of one size, peel and core, taking 
care not to core them through. Fill them with the minced meat 
and put them in a dish to bake witli a cup of water and a little 
nice dripping. If the potatoes are large they will require an horn- 
to bake; if small, half that time will be sufficient. Baste occa- 
sionally. 

Saratoga Potatoes. — Slice the potatoes very thin into cold 
water. 6 good sized potatoes will answer for a family of four. A 
knife will not answer very well, and a potato sheer can be pur- 
chased at any hardware store for 25 cents. Drain the potatoes thor- 
oughly in a colander on a napkin. Drop into boiling lard to fry a 
few at a time. When first thrown in they sink, when done they 
rise. After this it is only a question of how much color when they 
should be taken out. Drain and serve on a folded napkin, sprink- 
ling over them a little salt. A little chopped parsley is thought by 
many an addition. Sprinkle lightly over the dish. Very nice cold, 
or for lunches, etc. A large quantity can be made at once, and 
they may be warmed if desired. 
German Potato Dumplings.— 

12 raw potatoes pared and grated. » 

4 cooked potatoes grated. 

1 cupful boiling milk. 

1 heaped cupful of flour. 



150 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Drain the water off the raw potatoes, add the cooked ones and 
scald with the boiling milk. Cut a slice of baker's bread in 
squares iind brown in a little butter. Stir them into the batter. 
Add a teaspoonful of salt and the butter. 

Shape large dumplings (keeping the hands well floured), and 
drop them into a kettle of boiling salted water. Cook half an hour. 
Break one open with a fork, if dry in the center they are ready for 
the table. Drain in a colander and serve hot. 

Pot.Jitoes Hollandaise. — Peel raw potatoes and scoop out of 
them as many little round balls as possible, using an iron vegetable 
cutter. Simmer nntil done in slightly salted water. Arrange on 
a plate without breaking. Sprinkle with chopped parsley and 
border the plate lightly with sprigs of the same. Serve with fish. 
Very nice also to use as a garnish for fish and meats. The white 
potatoes (in balls) may be alternated with the same sized balls, 
cut in the same manner from beets and carrots and boiled, not too 
soft, in slightly salted water, each in a separate saucepan, on 
account of coloring. Very pretty, but very troublesome. 

Tossed Potatoes. — Boil some potatoes in the skin. Peel 
quickly. Cut in small pieces. Toss them over the fire in a mix- 
ture of cream or rich milk, butter in bits, rolled in flour, pepper 
and salt until they are thoroughly hot and covered with the gravy. 

Fried Potatoes— Raw.— Fry nice salt pork, take from the 
pan, turn out most of the gravy, have raw potatoes pared and 
sliced thin. Put into the spider with the gravy (butter can be used 
instead). A little hot water. Cover. Turn occasionally to prevent 
burning. Brown nicely and serve hot. 

Brown Potatoes. — Boil and peel some large potatoes three- 
quarters of an hour before the roast beef is taken from the oven. 
Skim the fat from the gravy. Dredge the potatoes with flour, and 
put in with the meat. Baste often with the gravy and bake until 
broAvn. 

Potato Stew (Raw).— Lay 3 slices salt pork, fat and lean, in 
the stew kettle and let fry. Pour off part of the fat if too much. 
Slice an onion and fry with the pork. When it browns put in the 
potatoes sliced, not too thin, and hot water, not quite enough to 
cover. When nearly done set on the top of the stove to simmer. 



VEGETABLES. 151 

Add pepper, butter and a cupful of sweet cream. Milk thickened 
with flour can be used in place of cream. Butter can be used in 
place of pork. 

What to do Willi Cold Potatoes— Potatoes a La Creme.— 

Put in a saucepan 3 tablespoonfuls of butter, 1 dessert spoonful 
flour, a little chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste. Stir 
these together. Add 1 cup of cream or rich milk. Set over the 
fire stirring continually until it boils. Slice or chop cold boiled 
potatoes and put them in the mixture. Let all boil together and 
serve very hot. The beaten yolk of an egg may be added to the 
milk. 

Maitre d'Hotel Potatoes. — Prepare as above, and when 
ready to remove from the fire stir in the juice of a lemon. It is 
the lemon that gives it this high-sounding title. 

Princess Potatoes. — Slice cold mashed potatoes into strips 2 
inches long, 1 inch wide and ^ inch thick. Have in one saucer a 
tablespoonful of melted butter, and in another a beaten egg. Dip 
the strips first in the butter then in the egg. With a knife lay them 
in a buttered tin and cook in a hot oven for twelve minutes. Serve 
at once. 

Buttered Sweet Potatoes.— Butter a pudding dish. Boil 
the potatoes. Peel and slice lengthwise. Butter the slices liber- 
ally. Put in the dish and bake in a hot oven until lightly browned. 
Some cooks sprinkle sugar and cinnamon between the layers. Dot 
the top layer with bits of butter. 

Potato Balls — Fried. — Work into a cupful of cold mashed 
potatoes a teaspoonful of melted butter. When the mixture is 
white and light add the beaten yolk of 1 egg and season to taste. 
Make into balls, flouring the hands. Roll thickly in flour and fry 
in plenty of nice hot dripping. Take up with a spoon, or a four- 
tined fork, and pile on a hot dish. 

Potato Omelet.— Chop cold potatoes very fine and cook slowly 
in sufficient fat. Do not let them ^totau, but mix well together. 
To 1 pint of potatoes allow 2 tablespoonfuls of rich milk or cream 
and half a raw egg. Beat »jhem well together. Take the potatoes 
from the pan and stir this in. Season with pepper and salt. Put 
the potatoes back in the same pan and replace on the fire, first 



152 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

pressing them well down with a spoon. Do not stir, but let them 
become nicely browned on the under side, which will take about 
fifteen minutes. Place a dish over the jjan and turn over quickly, 
leaving the nicely browned side of the potato uppermost. 

Potato Puffs.— 

2 cups cold mashed potatoes ; stir in 
2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 
2 well-beaten eggs. 
1 cup of cream or milk. 

Pour into a deep dish and bake in a quick oven, or nicer to 
make in balls. Butter a dripping-pan, make in balls with floured 
hands. If not stiff enough mix in a little flour or more potato, 
brush over with the yolk of egg and bake a light brown in the 
oven. Serve on a platter. Nice to send in with fish. A delicious 
dish. 

Sweet Potatoes Browned. — Boil, peel while hot, cut in 
halves or leave whole and put in the oven. After five or ten min- 
utes baste with a teaspoon ful of melted butter. This will make 
them brown faster. Serve very hot. Cold potatoes may be used. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes. — Bake on the grating of the oven. 
When half done pierce through with a fork to let the steam out. 
They will be dry and mealy. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes. — 6 potatoes parboiled. Cut in dice or 
slice; ^ onion chopped and fried in a hot buttered frying-pan. 
When browned a little add the potatoes, season and put in 1 tea- 
spoonful chopped parsley. Serve dry and hot, 

GRRE.N CORN. 

Boiled Green Corn. — Get short, full ears of corn ; trim off 
all the husks, leaving only the last inside leaves. Have a kettle 
of boiling water with a small teaspoonful of salt to each quart. 
If very tender twenty minutes fast boiling will cook it properly. 
When done, drain off aU the water, remove the husks, lay a nap- 
kin on a large dish, place the corn on this. Turn the corners of 
tlie napkin over it and serve with salt and cold butter. 

Stewed Green Corn. — Cut from the cob and stew one-fourth 



VEGETABLES. I53 

hour in boiling water. Pour this partly oflf and cover with sweet 
milk. Stew until tender. Season with bits of butter rolled in 
flour, salt and pepper. Let it boil up well and serve hot. 

Succotash. — Twice as much corn as beans. Lima beans are 
very nice, string beans also. Stew them together until tender, 
letting the water be nearly boiled away when they are done. 
Season with butter, pepper and salt. Some add a cup of sweet 
milk. 

Baked Green Corn. — 12 ears of corn, spht and cut from the 
ear. Put in a baking dish, season with salt, pepper, a little sugar, 
1 tablespoonful butter, and enough milk to cover. Bake one-half 
hour. 

Winter Succotash. — Soak 1 pint of dried sweet com and 1 
pint of white beans over night. In the morning cook separately 
until partly done, adding a pinch of soda to aid in softening the 
beans. Skim the beans from the sodawater, put in with the corn, 
adding what boiling water will be necessary to finish cooking. 
Season with butter and salt. 
Corn Oysters.— 

1 pint of sweet com cut from the cob. 

^ teacup sweet cream or rich milk. 

1 well-beaten egg. 

^ teaspoonful salt, ^ teaspoonful pepper. 

1 small teacup flour. 
Mix well. Fry hke oysters in hot dripping. Have the fat in 
the pan about two inches deep and smoking hot. Hold the spoon 
close to the fat so that the shape of the oysters may be good . 
Omitting the egg will give quite a different flavor. A coarse grater 
may be used to remove the com from the cob. 
Green Corn Griddle Cakes.— 

12 ears of corn, grated. 

4 eggs. 

1 cup of sweet milk or cream. 

1 cup flour. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter if milk is used. 

^ teaspoonful salt. 
Mix and bake on a griddle. 



154 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Corn Chowder.— 

12 ears of corn cut from the cob. 
2 slices of salt pork fried brown in the kettle. 
1 large onion simmered in the fat. (This may be 
omitted if disagreeable to the taste.) 
Boil the corn in two quarts of water one-half hour. Add 

potatoes sliced. 

1 quart sweet milk. 

A few crackers crumbed. 
Season to the taste and boil until the potatoes are done. If 
canned coin is used allow it to get only well heated. 
Kentucky Corn Puddins;.— 

1 pint grated corn or ^ can. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

J teaspoonful salt. 

^ teaspoonful pepper. 

1 egg. 

1 cupful milk. 
If canned corn is used mash a little. Warm the butter and 
stir through the corn. Beat the egg in with the milk. The yolks 
of three eggs may be used in place of one whole egg. Bake in a 
pan until done. This is used as a vegetable. 

Canning Corn. — Cut the com from the cob. Boil in suffi- 
cient water until well done. Dissolve 1^ ounces of tartaric acid in 
^ pint boiling water. While cooking add 2 tablespoonfuls of the 
tartaric solution to each quart of corn, and can. When wanted for 
eating pour off the water, cover with fresh, adding ^teaspoonful 
soda to a quart can. Let stand a few minutes, pour off the water, 
add a little clear, cook sufficiently. Season to taste, adding milk 
or cream, butter, pepper and salt. 

Putting Down Corn. — Pack 1 quart of corn cut from the 
ear in a jar. Strew over this a handful of salt, then another quart 
and salt, until the jar is full. Cover and set in a cool place. This 
will keep a year. Gather the corn when soft and milky. Freshen 
and cook slowly. When seasoning add a little sugar to give the 
natural taste. In freshening drop the corn into boiling water and 



VEGETABLES. I55 

instantly skim out. This sets the milk and it may then be put 
through as many waters as necessary. 

Green Corn and Tomatoes Canned. — Take com (cut from 
the ear) and tomatoes, half and half. Cook the corn until almost 
done, then add the tomatoes and cook until softened, and can, at 
once. A very good dish. 

Drying Corn. — Cut the com from the cob and dry in the 
oven, spreading about 1 inch thick in the pan. Stir often to pre- 
vent scorching. If the corn is old, cut the top of the grains off 
and scrape, first down toward the point and then the other way. 
Corn that is too old for roasting ears may be used in tliis way. 
This is a far better way than cooking the com before cutting from 
the ear. 

To cook, simmer very gently for an hour or more, first soak- 
ing over night and through the morning. Add butter, a little 
sugar, salt and cream, or rich milk if liked. 

If milk is used, cut the butter in bits and roll in flour to sup- 
ply a httle thickeniag. 

Hulled Com or Lye Hominy.— Make a strong lye. Take 
3 quarts of wood ashes, put in a kettle and cover with 6 quarts 
of water. Let this boil five minutes, skimming several times. 
Remove from the fire and settle by pouring in a little cold water. 
Put 3 quarts of diy shelled corn in a kettle and strain the lye over 
it. Cook until the hull comes off; skim out and rinse well in sev- 
eral waters, rubbing with the hands until every imperfection is 
removed. Churning vigorously in plenty of fresh water is prefer- 
able as saving the hands. Put into a clean kettle and boil until 
soft with plenty of water. Salt and eat with milk, butter and 
pepper, or fry. (Use any kind of a butter chum for cleansing the 
com.) 

Hulled Corn (II). — Take 2 tablespoonfuls of soda to 1 quart 
of corn, with water enough to cover it; let soak over night. Boil 
in the morning until the hulls come off, adding more water if nec- 
essary. Wash and churn ia seveial waters to remove the hulls. 
Season with salt and cook soft in water. Serve with milk and 
sugar, or fry. 

Hominy. — Soak a cupful of small hominy for two hours in 



156 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

cold water to cover it ; drain ; put over the fire (a double boiler is 
best), with a quart of warm water slightly salted, and boil for 
one-half horn-. Drain, add a cupful of hot milk, boil ten or fifteen 
minutes, and serve as a vegetable with meats, or with cream and 
sugar for a desaert. 

Hominy, Fried. — What is left of hominy from dinner may 
be pressed smoothly in a pudding-dish and the next morning sliced 
and fried in butter for a breakfast dish. 

O^OMATORS. 

Stewed Tomatoes. — Pour scalding water on ripe tomatoes 
and let them remain in it two minutes. Peel and slice them and 
put in a stewpan with a little salt and butter and let stew for one- 
half hour. At the end of this time either thicken with bread or 
cracker crumbs, or pour over buttered toast. Cayenne pepper is 
better with tomatoes; ^ cupful of sweet cream or milk may be 
added if liked. 

Baked Stuffed Tomatoes. — Take rather large regularly shaped 
fruit, cut a small slice from the blossom end and scrape out all the 
soft part. Mix this with stale bread-crumbs, butter, pepper and 
salt, some parsley and a little chopped onion. Fill the tomatoes 
carefully; set them in a dish with a little butter in it. Let them 
bake three-quarters of an hour in a moderately hot oven, watch- 
ing that they do not burn or become dry. 

Broiled Tomatoes. — Select firm ripe tomatoes, cut in thick 
slices and broil on a well greased gridiron over a clear fire, turn- 
ing. A double wire broiling iron is almost a necessity. Arrange 
the slices on a heated plate and pour over them melted butter sea- 
soned with salt and Cayenne. Serve immediately. 

Deviled Tomatoes.— 

1 pint of thickly sliced tomatoes. 

1 yolk of egg, hard-boiled. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 
1^ tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 

1 raw egg, whipped light. 

1 teaspoonful powdered sugar. 

Salt, mustard and pepper. 



VEGETABLES. 157 

Rub the boiled yolk with the butter and seasoning; add the 
vinegar boiling hot; beat light. Stir in the beaten egg until the 
mixture thickens. Set the dish in hot water. Broil the sliced 
tomatoes as per directions given above. Lay the slices on a hot 
dish and pour the hot sauce over them. 

Scalloped Tomatoes. — Peel and slice the fruit, put in a 
pudding-dish with alternate layers of cracker or bread-crumbs, 
sprinkUng salt, peiijjcr and bits of butter on each layer, finishing 
with crumbs. 

Bake three-quarters of an hour and serve in the same dish. 
If the tomatoes are very juicy, bake with the dish covered; when 
partly done remove cover and brown the top. Green tomatoes 
may be scalloped in the same manner. Peel first, baking a full 
hour. A little chopped onion may be sprinkled between the layers. 

Fried Greeu Tomatoes. — Take large green tomatoes and 
cut in slices | inch thick, rejecting the first and last t-lice ; roll 
them in flour and slowly fry brown in plenty of butter. Sprinkle 
pepper and salt over them. Some like a little sugar ; serve on a 
hot dish. Nice for an entree or garnish for meats. 

The dish resembles egg-plant. Scald the sliced tomatoes in 
salt water before frying. 

Fried Green Tomatoes and Onions.- Slice onions and 
green tomatoes, scald the tomatoes in salt water; then fry together 
in butter or dripping, stirring well. Season with salt and pepper. 
A teaspoonful of water may be added if necessary. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Asparagus on Toast. — Choose green stalks of asparagus, 
the largest are best; cut off the white tough part, lay in cold water 
for an hour. Tie in small bunches, putting the heads all one way. 
Cook one-half hour in boiling salted water. Toast as many thin 
slices of bread as there are bunches of asparagus. Dip for an in- 
stant in the asparagus water, then butter freely. Lay a bunch of 
asparagus on each slice j pepper lightly and dot with bits of butter. 
Drawn butter may be poured over it instead. 

Vinegar may be served with asparagus. If milk or cream is 
convenient pour the water from the asparagus and pour iu as much 



158 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

of this as is required. Drop in a bit of butter, a pinch of salt, heat 
hot and pour over the toast. 

Stewed Asparagus. — Prepare as above, cutting in half-inch 
bits. Cook in salted water, using a porcelain or earthenware dish. 
Drain off part of the water, pepper lightly and add a goodly lump 
of butter Serve hot. The water may be entirely drained away and 
a sufficient quantity of milk or cream added, seasoning with but- 
ter and pepper, heating to the boiling point. 

A pinch of soda in the water for boiling makes asparagus 
tender. 

MUSHROOMS. 

To Test. — The upper part and the stalks of good mushrooms 
are white; as they increase in size the under part gradually opens 
and shows a fringe surface of a fine salmon color, which, as the 
mushroom gains in size, turns a dark brown. The upper sur- 
face parts easily from the edge and middle and has a pleasant 
smeil. If a little salt be sprinkled on the under side of a mush- 
room, and it should turn yellow, reject it at once as poisonous; if 
black they are wholesome. 

Stewed Mushrooms. — Trim and rub clean with a flannel 
dipped in salt; to ^ pint of large button mushrooms put 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter in a pan; melt; put in the mushrooms, | tea- 
spoonful of salt, ^ as much pepper and 1 blade of mace pounded; 
stew till the mushrooms are tender, then serve on a very hot dish. 

Mushroom Flaps Broiled. — Clean the mushrooms by wiping 
them with a piece of flannel dipped in salt. Cut off a portion of 
the stalk and peel the tops ; broil them over a clear fire; 
turn them and arrange on a hot dish ; put a small piece of but- 
ter on each mushroom, season with pepper and salt and squeeze 
over them a few drops of lemon juice; place the dish before the 
fire; when the butter is melted serve very quickly. Moderately 
sized flaps are better than buttons for broiling ; the latter are for 
stewing. 

Baked Mushrooms. — Flatten and peel, and lay in a pie tin 
with a piece of butter on each one ; pepper and salt lightly and 



VEGETABLES. 1 59 

bake twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Heaj) lightly on a hot 
dish and pour the gravy over all. 

Fried Mushrooms with BeefsteaJi.— Cut off the stem, 
peel the top of the mushroom, rinse in cold water and fry in a 
little butter, covering the bottom of the pan. They will yield cou» 
siderable gravy. Cook three or four minutes, place them over the 
top of hot broiled steak with the gravy. 

SALaSIFY or VRGKTABIaB. 
OYST"B.R. 

Any time after the root is fully grown, prepare by scraping, 
and immediately drop in cold water to prevent turning black. Cut 
in ^ inch slices and boil in sufficient water to cover. Thirty min- 
utes will be enough. Then add a cupful of cream or milk with a 
tablespoonful of flour stirred in smoothly. Do not turn off the 
water; season highly with pepper, butter and salt, and serve as 
other oysters. A small piece of codfish boiled with it is some- 
times considered an improvement. Or parboil and dip the slices 
in egg and then in bread-crumbs and fry in butter. 

PRAS AND BB.ANB. 

Green Peas, Fresli or Canned. — 1 peck will answer for a 
family of four or five. Shell them, but do not wash, as this injures 
the flavor. Put them in boiling salted water; add a teaspoonful of 
white sugar and cook one-half hour. Drain; pepper and salt 
lightly, and stir in ^ teaspoonful salt, and sei-ve hot. 

In opening Canned Peas observe the directions given at the be- 
ginning of this chapter. If no juice, barely cover with cold water. 
Add a teaspoonful of sugar to a quart can and ^ teaspoonful of 
salt. Add a tablespoonful of butter and send them to the table in 
the liquor. 

Peas may be stewed and when the water is very nearly ab- 
sorbed turn in cream or milk sufficient for the required amount of 
liquid. Let it boil up and season to taste with butter, pepper and 
salt. One-half teaspoonful of white sugar may be added or boil 
the pods in the water first. 



l6o THREE MEALS A LAY. 

String Beans. — Wash, string and cut the beans in pieces. 
Put over to cook in boiling water, adding i teaspoonful of baking 
soda to a quart of beans. Let boil ten or fifteen minutes, then 
skim into clear boiling water; salt and boil until tender. Season 
with ^ cup of cream or milk, butter and pepper. They may be 
boiled with a piece of meat and the cream omitted. 

Pork and Beans. — Soak 3 cups of beans over night. Boil 
in the morning, adding a teaspoonful of saleratus to the water. 
When the beans begin to break skim them into a baking dish. In 
the center put a half pound of pork with the upper surface well 
scored. Then cover the beans with boiling water and bake three 
hours in a hot oven. A large onion boiled with them and re- 
moved before baking improves the flavor for some. 

Stewed Beans. — Proceed as for Baked Beans, skimming 
from the saleratus water into clear boiling water and stew gently 
several hours; season liberally with salt, butter and a little Cay- 
enne pepper, a little onion if desired. 

Boston Baked Beans. — Soak 1 quart of beans over night. 
In the morning parboil in soda watt r, skim into the bean pot; add 
^ pound of salt pork, 3 tablespoon fuls of molasses, 1 teaspoonful 
of salt. Put in the oven and bake slowly, keej^ing the beans 
covered with boiling water and adding fresh whenever needed. If 
it is convenient keep in a warm oven all night and serve for Sun- 
day breakfast and dinner. The beans should be quite dry when 
served. 

Lima Beans. — Boil in as little water as possible and when 
tender drain into a colander and season with butter, pepper and 
salt. The water they are boiled in should be slightly salted. 
Cream or milk may be added to the seasoning if desired. 

Dried Lima Beans. — Soak over night in soft water. In the 
morning pour this off and add boiling water, salted in the propor- 
tion of 1 teaspoonful to a quart. Boil two hours moderately, drain, 
season with 1 tablespoonful of butter, ^ teaspoonful of black pep- 
per, ^ teaspoonful of salt and serve hot. 

Fried Okra. — Cut in slices, rinse in cold water, dip in flour 
and fry brown in salted butter or lard. 

Gumbo. — Creole Style. — Take equal quantities of young, 



VEGETABLES. l6l 

tender okra chopped fine, ripe tomatoes peeled and sliced ; 1 onion 
sliced, a small lump of butter, a little salt and pepper. Put the 
whole in a stew-pan with a tablespoonful of water, and stew until 
tender. 

Stewed Okra. — Slice young, tender pods in rounds. Boil 
twenty minutes in salted water. Drain and season with butter 
and pepper. This may be poured over buttered toast if desired. 
A half cup of hot cream or very rich milk is an addition. 

Stewed Celery. — Scrape and wash the celery. Cut in inch 
lengths and cook twenty minutes in boiling salted water. Drain, 
pour in a cup of milk, let boil and add 1 tablespoonful of butter 
rolled in flour, pepper and salt, and stew gently a few minutes; or, 
tie in bunches like asparagus, boil, season and serve on buttered 
toast. 

GABBAQR. 

Boiled Cabbage. — Trim the outside leaves ofif, cut in quar- 
ters, or in round slices. Put in a kettle of boiling water with a 
teaspoonful of salt, cover and let the cabbage boil lively for half an 
hour. When the stalks are tender, take it up, press to free it from 
water, put pepper and butter over it and serve hot; or the pepper 
and butter may be omitted and vinegar alone served with it. 

Another nice way is to press the cabbage free from water, 
chop fine and season liberally with j)epper and butter, serving the 
same as mashed turnips. Some cooks boil cabbage with a small 
piece of corn-beef in the water. 

Cabbage a la Creme. — Boil a cabbage, cut fine, in two cup- 
fuls of milk. When done add a tablespoonful of butter rolled in 
flour and season with pepper and salt. 

Fried Cabbage. — Fry ham or bacon. Pour off part of the 
fat. Eemove the meat and put in the cabbage previously cut fine. 
Pour in a little water. Season with pepper and salt. Cook slowly. 
Vinegar may be served with it. Butter may be used in place of 
ham. 

Saner Kraut. — Slice good solid heads of cabbage fine. Put 
down in large jars. Sprinkle salt very lightly between the layers. 
Pack very closely. Too much salt will stop the fermenting process. 
11 



l62 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Some housewives add a half gallon of vinegar to a barrel, or a 
quart to a large jar full. Put a porcelain cover over the top with a 
heavy weight. Eemove this every few days and rinse with cold 
water to remove the scum. Put in a warm place for at least four 
weeks. After the fermentation is complete remove to a cold place. 

Cooking Sauer Kraut. — Cook in boiling water one hour. This 
may then be fried in butter or ham gravy, or the kraut may be 
boiled with a piece of salt pork. 

Cauliflower Boiled. — Place a cauliflower head in well salted 
water. Tie in a piece of coarse white netting to prevent breaking. 
Boil until tender. Eemove the netting and serve in a deep dish, 
pouring over it a cupful of drawn butter. Epicures consider the 
addition of the juice of ^ a lemon a great improvement. Cauli- 
flower is whiter and nicer boiled with equal parts of milk and 
water. 

Cauliflower a La Creme. — Prepare and boil as above. Drain 
and pour over it a cupful of milk or cream. Let it boil and seasou 
with a tablespoonful of butter, rolled in flour with a little pepper. 
Cauliflower is also nice browned in butter after boiling. 

TURNIPS AND BRRTS. 

TuruipS Stewed. — Peel, slice, chop and cook in boihng salted 
water until tender. Drain and season with pepper. To 2 quarts 
of turnip add 1 j)int of cream or rich milk. Mix 1 tablespoonful 
of flom- and 1 tablespoonful of butter; simmer altogether ten 
minutes. Sei-ve hot. Some use a beaten egg in the milk, and 
some use sour cream, adding the egg and a dash of vinegar. 

Turnips Mashed. — Peel, slice and soak in cold water. Boil 
until quite tender in salted water. Drain and mash with butter. 
Much of the flavor and sugar of the root is lost in this way. To 
prevent this boil the root whole without peehng. It will take twice 
as long. When quite tender peel and prepare as above. Add a 
little cream or milk while mashing. 

Carrots. — Wash and scrape. Leave in cold water half an 
hour. Boil until tender in salted water. Chop or mash fine, sea- 
soning with butter, pepper and a few teaspoonfuls of cream or 
milk. 



VEGETABLES. 163 

Carrots Stewed. — Prepare to boil by cutting lengthwise. 
Slice thin. When done put in a saucepan 2 tablespoonfuls of 
butter and 1 cupful milk. Season with pepper. Some like a dash 
of Cayenne. Add very little sugar and stew half an hour. 

Beets. — Wash carefully, neither cutting nor scraping that 
juice and color may be preserved. Boil until tender. In summer 
this will take an hour, in winter at least three hours. Slice hot 
and season with plenty of butter, pepper, salt and a little vinegar, 
and serve. Slice some up for pickles and put in cold spiced 
vinegar, or plain vinegar. The tops, and the young beets thinned 
out, make excellent greens. 

Young Beets. — Boil and slice. Pour over them the follow- 
ing sauce : 

1 teacupful vinegar. 
1 teaspoonful butter. 
1 teaspoonful sugar. 

Let it boil up and turn over the beets. Serve hot. Young 
beets are very nice sHced hot and served with cream or rich milk, 
seasoned with butter, pepper and salt. Let it boil up and pour 
over the beets. 

Parsnips Stewed. — Wash, pare and split in two, or if large, 
cut in slices. Neither carrots or parsnips should be boiled whole 
as the outside is done too much before the inside is tender. Boil 
until soft in just water enough to keep from burning. Then stir 
in sweet milk. Dredge in a little flour. Add a goodly lump of 
butter. Season with pepper and salt, and let simmer fifteen 
minutes. Some cooks serve parsnips with a simple white sauce. 

Parsnips Browned. — Pare, cut in pieces lengthwise and 
steam an hour. Then bake in a hot oven with a little salt and 
meat dripping until brown ; baste occasionally with the dripping. 
Draiii and serve. Cold boiled parsnips sliced may be baked in the 
same way, or they may be dipped in flour and fried in butter, turn- 
ing when one side is brown, or dip in a fritter batter, and fry in 
butter or dripping. 

Cucumbers Stewed. — Cucumbers that are just too old for 
pickling or serving raw are at their prime for cooking, and can be 
served in innumerable ways, being, in fact, one of our most useful 



164 THREE MEALvS A DAY. 

vegetables. And they are far more Tvliolesome cooked than in the 
raw state. Cut the cucumbers in slices ^ an inch thick. Put them 
in a sauce pan, just covering with hot water, and let boil until ten- 
der. Drain and cover with a pint of cream or rich milk. Add a 
teaspoonful of butter. Season with salt and white pepper. Let 
boil five minutes shaking the saucepan. Serve hot. This dish is 
delicate as asparagus. 

Cucumber Toast. — Pare and slice lengthwise in cuts | inch 
thick. Kinse in cold water. Dip each slice in flour and fry 
briskly in butter or meat gravy until a light brown. Have the 
toast buttered and moistened slightly. Lay a slice of cucumber 
between two slices of toast and serve instantly as hot as possible. 
The fried cucumber may be served without the toast if wished. 

Fried Egg Plant. — Slice the egg plant without paring, into 
5 or 6 pieces, omitting the end parings. Boil in salted water five 
mimites to extract the strong taste. Drain. Dip each slice in 
beaten egg, and then in bread-crumbs. Fry a light brown on both 
sides in butter or dripping. 

Egg Plant with Batter. — Prepare and boil as above. Drain 
and dip each slice in fritter batter, and fry in hot lard. Drain 
before serving. 

Scalloped Egg Plant. — Boil the egg plant until tender. 
Eemove the skin; mash fine; mix with an equal quantity of bread 
or cracker-crumbs. Put in a buttered baking dish. Season with 
pepper, salt and butter. Sprinkle crumbs over the top and bake 
one-half hour. This makes a delightful and digestible dish. 

Stewed Onions. — In peeling onions be careful not to cut the 
top and bottom too closely or the onion will not keep whole. Boil 
in salted water with a little milk until tender. Drain and put 
in a white sauce to simmer for ten minutes ; or, a cup of milk or 
cream boiling hot. Season with butter, pepper and salt. Turn 
over the onions and serve, or serve whole with butter, pepper and 
salt. 

Fried Onions. — Peel and slice. Fry in butter or meat gravy. 
Season with pepper and salt, and serve hot. 

Summer Squash. — This vegetable should always be steamed, 
as the object is to get it dry as possible to admit of using cream iu 



VEGETABLES. 165 

the seasoning. Cut in pieces it will cook in one-half hour. Mash, 
season and place for a few minutes on the back of the stove. 
Serve. 

Winter or Hubbard Squash. — This squash is better baked 
than steamed or boiled. To steam, pare the squash, take out the 
seeds and cut in strips. Put in the steamer and cook until soft. 
Place in a deep dish and mash, adding for each quart of squash 1 
tablespoonful of butter, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and ^ teaspoonful of 
pepper. If baked, it can be prepared in the same manner, or 
may be served in the shell. It may also be baked in the pan with 
roast beef, basting with the gravy. 

Spinach. — Put in a covered saucepan with a little water. Boil 
twenty minutes and drain. Chop. Keturn to the fire and season 
with butter, pepper and salt. Cover with slices of hard-boiled 
eggs and serve hot. 

Greens. — Young beets are perhaps the most delicious greens. 
Scrape the roots and boil with the leaves. Mustard, turnip tops, 
dandelions, cowslips, red-root, cabbage sprouts, pigweed, etc., etc., 
are all suitable for this purpose. Prepare carefully; put into boil- 
ing salted water. Drain and press; season with pepper and but- 
ter; serve with sliced hard- boiled egg and plain, spiced, or horse- 
radish vinegar. Greens may be boiled with ham or salt pork. 

Plain boiled greens are nice fried a few minutes with salt, 
pepper and butter. 

Artichokes. — Wash and let lie two or three hours in cold 
water; put in boiling salted water and boil steadily two or three 
hom's; add water when necessary; when tender, drain and serve 
with melted butter. 

Baked Rice. — 

1 small cupful of rice. 
1 quart of milk. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 

1 tablespoonful of butter, to be used in buttering the 
pudding-dish. 

Wash the rice in two waters and put into the dish; add the 
milk and salt and bake in a slow oven two hours. It must swell 
and be a firm mass. If it browns too fast cover till nearly done 



1 66 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

and serve very hot. 2 large spoonfuls of grated cheese are some- 
times added. Serve as a vegetable. 

Rice, Southern Maimer.— Prepare the rice for cooking, 
allow 1 quart of water to 1 cupful of rice; salt a little and when 
boiling put in the rice. Boil twenty minutes, drain closely, set the 
kettle back over the bed of coals and steam fifteen minutes with 
the lid off. When done every kernel will be found perfect g,nd 
tender. 

Rice is very nice cooked in this manner instead of steaming. 
Add a cupful of milk and let cook an hour or more. 

Macaroni, Baked. — Break the macaroni into inch lengths 
stew two minutes, or until tender. Drain, put in a pudding-dish, 
cover with milk; season with butter, pepper and salt and bake 
one-half hour. A couple of tablespoonfuls of grated cheese may 
be added. 

Macaroni with Cheese. — 1 pint of Italian macaroni broken 
in inch pieces; drop in 1 quart of boiling water, to which an even 
teaspoonful of salt has been added. Boil twenty minutes and 
drain ; pour over it enough milk to cover and cook until tender. 
Butter a pudding-dish, cover the bottom with grated cheese; add 
layers of macaroni, then of cheese until sufficient; cover the last 
layer of cheese with bread-crumbs. Bake in a quick oven fifteen 
minutes. If the top is not brown heat a shovel red hot and 
brown. 

Boiled Dinner. — The corned beef should be put over early 
in the day. Put in cold water, allowing room for the numerous 
vegetables. If salt pork is used it will not need to boil so long. 
Cut a medium-sized cabbage in quarters. White beets are nice to 
use for boiled dinner. Do not break the skin in washing. Put 
the beets in by 9 o'clock, that they may be tender; and if the car- 
rots are large they must be added with the beets. Later, add 
parsnips and cabbage, peeled turnips cut in pieces, and peeled po- 
tatoes about one-half hour before the dinner is to be served. Boil 
a red pepper pod with the whole. Peel the beets; dish up the 
vegtables and meat in separate dishes for convenience in carv- 
ing. Serve with spiced or horse-radish vinegar. 



GOOD flour and pure yeast are an absolute necessity in making 
good bread. Bread is well termed the staff of life. In 
order to make good bread (to know how to do tbis is an 
accomplishment of which any lady may be proud) requires atten- 
tion from the time it is begun until it is baked. The sponge 
(flour, yeast, water or milk mixed together) should always be kept 
warm and at an even temperature, A wood or earthen trough is 
best. 

In the first MoiiDiMG of bread all the flour should be put in, 
and the most kneading given. 

Water used ia making bread should not be too hot. If the 
temperature be too high the loaf will be coarse, porous, light. 

One cup of yeast means wet yeast. If dry is used the cup 
must be filled with water. 

Brush the tops of the loaves with butter before putting in the 
oven. This will keep the crust moist. 

Kaised biscuit should be rubbed with butter before putting in 
the tin that they may separate smoothly when baked and leave no 
jagged edges. 

Test the oven by putting in a tablespoonful of flour on an old 
tin. If this browns in one minute the oven is at right heat. Keep 
the heat steady and as it lessens toward the end of the baking set 
in the rolls or biscuit. After they have risen put on more heat 
and bake. 

FiiOUR should be kept in a cool dry place and should always 
be sifted before using. If sifted by the quantity so much the bet- 
ter. Some sift baking powder with it at the rate of two heaping 
tablespoonfuls to a quart of flour. Set apart in a close covered 
pail to be ready for use. 

(167) 



1 68 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Self-rising flour is very couveuieut, also creamery buttered 
flour. This last requires neither salt, shortening nor baking 
po^vder and is to be recommended. If j^repared at home add to each 
quart of flour one teaspoonful of soda and two teaspoonfuls of 
cream tartar. Sift together three times. This will be found a 
great convenience. 

Graham flour should be bought in small quantities. It spoils 
by long keeping. 

Dough for bread should be rather soft; for baking powder 
biscuits, as soft as they can be handled. *■ 

Deep tins are better for bread, as the loaves are not so apt to 
spread in rising. 

Soda or baking powder biscuit, bread and cake can be made 
almost as nice as fresh by plunging an instant into cold water, 
then placing in a hot oven ten or fifteen minutes. To be used 
immediately. 

Crackers grown soft from keeping may be heated through in 
the oven to make crisp and fresh. 

Heat the bread-knife before slicing a warm loaf of bread or 
cake and the slices will be smooth and even. 

Indian meal is considered by some cooks a serviceable addition 
to wheat flour in making pastry, bread or pudding. Used in 
small quantities the paste will be found lighter and shorter. A 
little less than one-fourth meal will be found about the correct 
proportions, though still less can be used. 

Good management in cutting bread for the table will prevent 
the accumulation of stale bits. Once accumulated, however, they 
may be utilized in various ways. Toast, hard or soft, is always 
nice, while the smaller bits may be browned and dried in the oven, 
powdered and kept in a glass jar for breading croquettes, oysters, 
etc., instead of cracker-crumbs. 

A cup of flour always means a full cup dipped up before 
sifting. 

Brown bread that has grown stale makes delicious milk toast. 
Prepare same as wheat bread for toast. Brown biscuit can be 
utilized in the same way. 

Bread must be smoothly cut, then piled on a little doyley or 



BREAD. 169 

Japanese paper mat laid in the plate. The same coarse should he 
pursued with cheese and with crackers. 

Hop Yeast. — Six or seven common- sized potatoes grated. 
Stir a heaping tahlespoonful of flour with the grated potato. Put 
1 cup of hops in 2 quarts of boiling water. Let boil half an hour, 
strain and pour over the grated potatoes, adding a large handful of 
salt and one of sugar. Stir well and let boil ten minutes. Let it 
stand until cool enough, not to scald, and add a coffee cup full of 
good yeast. Set by the stove until light. Keep afterward in a 
cool, dry place. 

An easier way is to boil the potatoes in hop water, mash them 
and add to them salt and sugar. If yeast is at all doubtful stir 
in a little saleratus before using it. If it does not foam well it is 
too stale. 

Potato Teast, — Peel and grate 3 large potatoes. Pour on 1 
quart of boiling water and cook clear, adding ^ cupful salt and ^ 
cupful of sugar. Let it cool and put in 1 cupful of soft yeast or 
1 cake of dried yeast. Use one teacupf ul of this yeast for four or 
five loaves of bread, and renew while there is enough of the old 
yeast left to start the new. In starting new always clean the yeast 
jug thoroughly. 

Teast Cakes. — To 1 quart of cold water add a large handful 
of hops. Let boil half an hour, then strain it into ^ cupful of 
wheat flour. When lukewarm add 3 cakes of yeast that have been 
soaked in warm water. Set in a warm place until light, then 
thicken with corn-meal until stiff enough to roll out. Cut in 
three-inch cakes. Dry in the shade in windy weather. When 
dry tie in a bag and keep in a cool dry place. Turn them often 
while drying to keep from souring. They may be dried by the 
stove if necessary. When wanted for use soak a cake in lukewarm 
water. This should be enough for three loaves of bread. These 
cakes will keep five or six months and are especially convenient in 
the summer when common yeast is apt to ferment. 

Baking Powder. — 

10 ounces of corn-starch. 

9 ounces bi-carbonate of soda. 

7 ounces tartaric acid. 



170 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Powder, sift several times, spread on a bread-board and 
stand in the sun; sift again. When thoroughly dry put up in 
tight jars or cans. 

Tartaric acid is to be used in preference to cream of tartar as 
being a purer article, and as only half the quantity is required the 
extra cost is not noticeable. Get bi- carbonate of soda. It is a 
better article than the common baking soda. 

Lime Water in Bread. — ^Use lime water in making bread. 
It has been found that lime water produces the same whiteness, 
softness and capacity for retaining moisture as results from the 
use of alum, while it removes all acidity from the dough. A sat- 
urated solution should be used. 1 cupful of air- slaked lime in 1 
quart of cold water will answer as a solution. Use 1 tablespoon- 
ful for each loaf of bread. 

Graham bread for dyspeptics should contain neither yeast, 
molasses or soda. Molasses needs soda to correct its natural 
acidity. No person with a weak digestion should ever use soda. 

Bread With Potato Sponge. — Peel and boil 4 medium sized 
potatoes in 1 quart of water. When done, mash and pour both 
potatoes and water boiling hot over about 1 pint of flour, stirring 
well. Do this at dinner time. When cool add enough more water 
to make the wished-for amount of batter, 1 cupful of yeast for 4 
loaves of bread, 1 tablespoonful of salt, 1 of sugar, and flour suffi- 
cient to make a moderately stiff batter. Keep in a warm place, and 
in the evening add flour enough to knead. Do this thoroughly, 
cover well, keep warm and in the morning knead down and let it 
rise again. After breakfast, if sufficiently light make into loaves 
moulding thoroughly and let it rise, covering warmly until suffi- 
ciently light. Bake in a hot oven at a uniform temperature from 
three-fourths to one hour. Brushing the loaves over with a little 
melted butter tends to soften the crust. 

Some cooks prefer to use for scalding bread sponge the water 
only in which the potatoes have been boiled as making bread less 
moist and solid. Or boiling water may be used. 

A still easier method will be found to scald a pint of flour 
with boiling water at night, adding yeast and instead of a sponge 
mix stiff and knead at once. Cover warmly; in the morning pro- 



BREAD. 171 

ceed as above. Scalding buttermilk or whey may be used instead 
of scalding water, and will be found an improvement. 

Cold sweet milk half and half with cold water makes very 
sweet, tender bread. 

In the winter it will be found a very good plan to heat the 
flour, set the sifted flour over a kettle of boiling water, or in the 
heating oven of a range. 

Good Bread. — Set a thick sponge at night with warm water, 
not milk, using 2 yeast cakes for four very large loaves ; beat the 
sponge thoroughly. In the morning take 4 tablespoonfuls of 
white sugar dissolved in f cup of melted butter, 1 teaspoonful salt 
and flour enough to make a soft dough. Mold vigorously. Let it 
rise until very light, mold again. Let it rise again, less time. 
Make in loaves, rub each one with melted butter and bake in a 
good oven. Bread made in this way is deliciously hght and tender. 

Bread with Corn-meal Sponge. — Spread 8 quarts of flour in 
the bread-pan so as to leave a large cavity in the center. Make 2 
quarts of sifted white corn-meal into mush by boiling it in either 
water or milk. When cool enough to add the yeast without scald- 
ing, turn into the flour, put in 1 cupful of yeast, 1 teaspoonful of 
salt and enough warm milk or water to make a suitable batter, 
mixing with it a portion of the flour. Cover the whole closely and 
let it stand over night. Stir stifif in the morning with the remain- 
der of flour in the pan, knead and make into loaves. Let it rise 
near the fire and bake well. This is an excellent article of light, 
sweet nutritious bread that will keep moist longer than any other 
and make the flour "hold out" wonderfully. 

Salt-rising Bread. — Put 1 quart of warm water in a 3 quart 
pitcher or tin pail. Do this early in the morning. Add a tea- 
spoonful of salt and 1 of brown sugar, a pinch of soda, 1 cupful of 
sweet milk if convenient, if not, 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls of corn-meal 
will answer, then stir in flour as for a thick batter. Set the vessel 
in a kettle of warm water and keep at an even temperature. Stir 
quite often until it begins to foam and rise ; then do not disturb or 
jar it. If water should rise over the yeast after standing a while, 
stir in a little more flour. When the yeast rises to the top of the 
pail or pitcher it is ready to use. 



-«?< 



172 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Sift 4 or 5 quarts of flour and spread in a pan so as to leave a 
large cavity in the center and put in 1 tablespoonful of sweet lard 
and butter. Pour over this 3 pints of warm water and add the 
rising. Mix and work into loaves. Rub butter over each. Put 
in long, deep tins and when it rises to the top bake three-fourths of 
an hour. Let cool uncovered, and put away in a large stone jar. 
This will make nice, moist, sweet bread. 

Some cooks add 1 pint of corn-meal mush, when kneading up 
for baking. This ensures its moistness. Graham flour is better 
to set the rising with, than fine flour. 

Milk Yeast Bread. — Take 1 pint of Graham flour. Stir in 1 
tablespoonful white sugar, 1 tablespoonful ginger, 1 teaspoonful 
saleratus, 1 teaspoonful salt. Set this away in a covered dish or 
glass fruit can to keep from the air. The night before baking take 
2 tablespoonfuls of this dry mixture and pour on boiling water un- 
til it is a thick batter, set in a warm place to rise. In the morn- 
ing take 1 quart in equal parts of boiling water and new milk, add 
the yeast. Then stir in flour until it is a stiff batter. Set the pan 
over a kettle of hot water, not too hot or the dough will stick to 
the pan. If hot enough it will be foaming in two or three hours. 
Stir m flour enough to knead, put in tins and let rise again until 
the whole top of the loaf will move by laying the hand softly on it. 
Bake in a moderately hot oven, wrap in a wet cloth and the result 
will be nice white bread. 

Yienna Bread. — 2 pounds sifted flour banked around the 
pan, I pint of milk, |- pint of water; mix a thin batter, quickly 
add I pint milk, in which has been dissolved ^ ounce of salt, and 
^ ounce of compressed yeast; leave remainder of flour against side 
of pan; cover and keep free from air forty-five minutes; then mix 
in rest of the flour until dough leaves side and bottom of pan. Let 
stand for two and a half hours. Divide into 1 pound pieces. Sub- 
divide into 12 pieces. Fold corner of each piece to center; turn 
over to rise for thirty minutes. Put in hot oven; bake twenty 
minutes. 

Rye Bread. — To 1 quart of warm water stir as much com- 
rdeal or Graham as will make a smooth batter; stir into it half a 
cupful of baker's yeast and set in a warm place to rise. Let this 



BREAD. 173 

sponge be mixed in a vessel that will contain twice the quantity. 
In the morning put 3 quarts of rye flour into a bowl, hollow out 
the center, pour in the sponge, add a teaspoonful of salt, and half 
a teaspoonful of saleratus dissolved in a little water ; make the 
whole into a smooth dough with as much warm water as may be 
necessary; knead well, cover, set in a warm place for three hours, 
knead again and make into two or three loaves. Bake in a quick 
oven one hour. 

Quick Buttermilk Bread. — 
1 pint of buttermilk. 
1^ teaspoonfuls of soda, 
i cupful of shortening. 
1 teaspoonful of white sugar. 
And a little salt. 
Flour to make a medium dough. 

Bake at once. 

Graham Yeast Bread. — 1 cake of dry yeast dissolved in 2 
cupfuls of lukewarm water. Make stiff sponge with 2 pints of 
water and white flour, adding the dissolved yeast. Do this at 
night. In the morning add 1 teaspoonful of salt, ^ teaspoonful 
of soda, 1 cupful of brown sugar or molasses and 1 tablespoonful 
of lard. Stir in Graham flour stiff as possible and let rise ; stir 
again and put in buttered pans, shaping with the spoon ; let rise. 
(Never knead the dough for Graham bread.) Place in the oven 
and bake a little longer than white bread. When done, dampen 
the bread-cloth and roll lightly, with a dry towel outside. This 
will soften the crust. 

A bowl of white bread sponge may be used instead of yeast. 
Add a bowl full of warm water to this and proceed as directed. 

Or the white sponge may be stirred stiff with Graham flour 
the night before and the other ingredients added, and it will only 
need stirring down in the morning, when it may rise again and 
be put in baking-tins. 

Graham Bread (II.) — Take 2 quarts of buttermilk and let 
come to a boil; turn into a pan and when quite cool stir in 
enough Graham flour to make a thin batter. Add a small cupful 
of yeast, put in a warm place to rise over night. In the morning 



174 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

add 2 tablesponfuls of sugar and 1 of lard to the sponge. Stir in 
Graham until stiff; let it rise; stir down and put in the tins (well 
buttered), let it rise and bake in a moderate oven. 
Graham Bread. Quick.— 
1 pint of sour milk. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. 
^ cupful of molasses. 
^ teaspoonful of salt. 
Buttermilk can be used. 

Stir in Graham flour to make a stiff dough, and bake in a 
quick oven. A very little shortening makes it tender. 
Boston Brown Bread.— 

2 cupfuls of Indian meal. 

1 cupful of rye or Graham flour. 
1 cupful of wheat flour. 
1 quart of sweet milk. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 
1^ cupfuls of molasses. 

2 teaspoonfuls of cream-tartar and 

1 teaspoonful of soda, or 2 heaping teaspoonfuls of 
baking-powder. 
Steam in a covered dish four hours. The water must be boil- 
ing when the dish is put in, and not allowed to stop boiling 
during that time. 

Brown Bread, Steamed. — 
1 cupful of sweet milk. 
1 cupfitl of sour milk. 
^ cupful of molasses. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. 

2 cupfuls of Graham flour. 
1 cupful of wheat flour. 

Corn meal may be used instead of wheat. 

Pour it into a 2-quart basin, cover with a plate rolled in cloth 

to prevent steam dropping on the loaf ; place in a covered steamer 

and steam thoroughly two and one-half hours. The bread may 

then be set in the oven and baked twenty or thirty minutes. This 



BREAD. 175 

removes much of the moisture, making it less liable to spoil if 
kept over. 

Oatmeal Bread. — Put 1 quart of oatmeal in a pan. Scald 
by pouring upon it boiling water; stir quickly until the consistency 
of thick mush. Add 1 teacupful cold water and ^ teacupful of 
sugar or molasses; stir thoroughly. When cool enough, add 1^ 
teacupfuls of wheat flour bread-sponge; stir well and add wheat 
flour enough to make a very thick batter. Put into baking-pans 
and let it rise. If this quantity be made into 1 loaf it will require 
2 hours for baking. This bread will be found light, tender and 
wholesome, eaten either warm or cold. 
Corn and Pumpkin Bread.— 

3 cupfuls corn-meal. 

3 cupfuls stewed pumpkin. 

3 cupfuls wheat or Graham flour. 

^ cupful butter or lard. 

^ cupful of molasses. 

1 egg, well beaten. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. 

Buttermilk or sour milk sufficient to make a soft 
dough. 
Scald the corn-meal with sufficient boiling water to wet it. 
Add the other ingredients, put in a buttered pudding-dish, cover 
and steam three hours ; then bake one-half hour. 

Indian Bread. — Scald 1 quart of Indian meal with 1 quart 
of boiling water. When cool, add : 

1 pint of Graham flour. 

1 pint of wheat flour. 

I" cupful of yeast. 

^ cupful of molasses. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

1 tablespoonful of shortening. 
If yeast cakes are used one will answer. Dissolve and fill the 
cup half full with warm water. Make it as thick as can be stirred 
with a spoon. Bake in a milk-pan or deep dish, letting it rise 
first. 



176 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Corn Bread.— 

2i pints of corn-meal. 

3 eggs, well beaten. 

1 tablespoonful of melted butter. 

2 tablespoonfiils of sugar. 
1 quart of sweet milk. 

Mix tborougbly and add 1 pint of wheat flour in which 1 large 
teasj)oonful of soda and 2 of cream tartar with a little salt have 
been mixed. Stir the beaten eggs into the milk, then the other 
ingredients. Beat well three minutes and bake quickly in shallow 
pans. 

Steamed Corn Bread.— 

1 quart of Indian meal. 

1 pint of wheat flour. 

1 cupful of sugar. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. 

1 quart of sweet milk. 

1 pint of sour milk. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 
Mix and steam four hours steadily. Serve hot. This may 
be baked also. 

Soda Biscuit.— 

1 pint of buttermilk or sour milk. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. 

^ cupful of butter or lard. 

Flour to mix a soft dough. 
Cut rather thin. If a pint of sour cream be used instead of 
milk no shortening will be required. 

Cream Tartar and Soda Biscuit.— 

4 cupfuls of sifted flour. 

i- cupful of butter or lard. 
1 pint of sweet milk or water. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. 

2 teaspoonfuls of cream-tartar. 

Sift the flour, cream-tartar and soda together. Add 1 tea- 



BREAD. 177 

spoonful of salt and rub in the shortening. Make into a soft dough 
with the milk or water. Koll out ; cut with biscuit-cutter and bake. 
Baking Powder Biscuit.— 

1 quart flour. 

Butter the size of an egg. 

2 heaping teaspoon fuls baking powder sifted with the 

flour. 
A pinch of salt. 
Milk, (sweet) or water enough to make a soft dough. Roll out, 
cut with a biscuit cutter, and bake in a quick oven. 
Raised Biscuit— 

1 quart of milk or water. 

f cupful lard and butter mixed, 
f cupful yeast. 

2 tablespoonfuls white sugar. 

Make into a thin sponge with wheat flour. The shortening 
should be melted. In the mornLag mis into a soft dough with 
sufficient flour, and let rise until almost noon. Mix down. Make 
into balls. Set closely in a buttered pan, buttering between each 
biscuit that they may separate easily. Let rise half an hour and 
bake twenty minutes. 

If wished for breakfast omit the sponge and mix into a dough 
the night before. In the morning knead down, make into biscuits 
and let rise half an hour before baking. 

If desired for tea the sponge may be set early in the morning 
and allowed to rise until noon, then mix into a dough. Let rise 
untU an hour before tea. Make into biscuit, and let stand thirty 
minutes; bake twenty minutes. If for company they wiU be 
lighter and finer grained if mixed down once or twice during the 
afternoon. Wash over with milk or melted butter. 

Easy Kaised Biscuit. — Take a piece of bread dough in the 
morning and mix in 2 tablespoonfuls of shortening and 2 of sugar. 
Mix thoroughly and let rise. Knead down a number of times. 
Bake for dinner. If wanted for supper, it will be necessary to mix 
down several times during the afternoon. Make out in biscuit, 
buttering between each and allow them to rise in the pan before 
baking. Brush over with mUk or melted butter. 
12 



178 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Graham Biscuit.— 

1 cup sour milk. 

1 tablespoonful shortening. 
^ teaspoonful soda. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
^ teaspoonful salt. 

1 egg may be added. 

Dissolve the soda in 2 tablespoonfuls boiling water. Stir in 
Graham flour, adding f cupful wheat flour to the dough. Knead 
barely enough to roll out. Cut with a biscuit cutter and put in a 
floured pan. Bake in a hot oven. Too much kneading will make 
hard and dry. 

Baking Powder Graham Biscuit. — 

1 cupful sweet milk, or milk and water. 

2 teaspoonf uls baking powder. 
2 teaspoonfuls sugar. 

1 tablespoonful lard, 
i teaspoonful salt. 

Sift the baking powder with the Graham. Add a cup of wheat 
flour. Knead and bake as above. ^ teaspoonful soda and 1 tea- 
spoonful cream tartar may be substituted for the baking powder. 

Breakfast Biscuit. — Take a piece of risen bread dough and 
work into it a beaten egg and a tablespoonful of lard or butter. 
Make into balls the size of an egg. Arrange closely in a buttered 
pan. Brush over the top with lard or butter. Bake twenty min- 
utes in a quick oven and serve hot for breakfast. Break them 
open as cutting would make them fall. 

Drop Biscuit. — 1 pint flour, butter or lard the size of an egg. 
1^ teaspoonfuls baking powder. Water enough for a stiff batter. 
Heat a buttered pan hot. Drop the batter in spoonfuls and 
bake. 

Beaten Biscuit (Southern).— Rub well together 1 quart of 
flour, 1 teaspoonful salt, and 1 tablespoonful lard. Wet it until 
tbe coiisistency of pie crust, and work it well on a marble slab or 
bread-board. Then beat with a rolling pin, folding the dough over 
and over at least half an hour, it will then be as light as a loaf of 
bread ready for the oven. Break off pieces; roll between the 



BREAD. 1 79 

hands ; place in a pan and bake twenty minutes in a very hot oven. 
Sweet milk is sometimes used for moistening instead of water. 

Creamery Buttered Flour Biscuit— Sift l quart of the flour 
into a basin. Mix with milk or water into a soft dough. Koll a 
sheet half an inch thick. Cut in round cakes and bake in a brisk 
oven. Very nice. If prepared flour is used, shorten. 

Rusk.— 

1 pint of warm milk. 
^ cup yeast. 

Mix in sufficient flour to make a thick sponge, when 
light work in 

1 cup sugar. 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls butter. 
4 eggs well-beaten. 

^ teaspoonful salt. 
Add flour sufficient to mold. 
Let rise a short time. Make into small balls, arrange closely 
in a buttered tin, brush over with sweetened milk and bake. The 
sponge may be set over night and baked before noon. Some pre- 
fer rusk with fewer eggs, in which case this rule will be found very 
nice with the use of 2 eggs only. If too sweet ^ cupful sugar may 
be substituted. 

Dried Rusk.— 

1 pint milk, warm. 
|- cupful butter. 

2 eggs. 

^ cupful yeast. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
Make a sponge of these ingredients omitting the eggs. Early 
next morning add the eggs well beaten and flour enough to roll out. 
Let this rise two hours. Roll an inch thick. Cut in round cakes 
and arrange in baking pans in two layers, one laid carefully upon 
another. Let rise half an hour and bake. When done lift apart 
leaving one side soft and throw loosely in the pan. Put in oven 
when the fire is low and leave all night. Then take them out and 
put into a clean muslin bag and hang up to dry in the kitchen. 
They can be used by the third day but are better for keeping. Put 



l8o rHREE MEALS A DAY. 

as many as desired iu a deep dish, and pour over them iced milk or 
iced water if no milk. When soft drain and eat with butter or 
cream. Very nice for invalids; delicious for any one. Nice with 
coffee; served dry. Will keep weeks. 
Virginia Rolls.— 

3 potatoes, boiled and mashed. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 
I pint boiling water. 
1 cupful yeast. 
Add the yeast when cool and let rise. Then add 1 quart water 
and flour enough to knead. Mold into oblong rolls, and let rise 
again before baking. 

Parker House Rolls.— 

1 quart warm milk. 



cupful lard or butter. 



2 tablespoonfuls white sugar. 
f cupful yeast, or 1 cake dry. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

2 quarts flour. 

Scald the butter and milk together. Let cool partly. Make a 
thin sponge with part of the flour and the other ingredients. Set to 
rise. When ready mix in the rest of the flour. Knead and let 
rise again. Koll. Cut out. Put in the pan and let rise the third 
time. Bake in a hot oven. If wanted for tea they can be mixed 
in the morning, if for breakfast, the night before. Some cooks 
mix the dough stiff at night, kneading well then, and let rise; 
kneading again in the morning, and then rolling out and baking as 
above. They may be cut out with a large-sized cutter, and a little 
butter spread on each roll and the edges lapped together. Bake in 
a hot oven. 

Cinnamon Rolls for Lunch. — Take a piece of bread dough 
iu the morning and roll out half an inch thick. Spread the top 
thoroughly with melted butter. Cover thick with white sugar, then 
with ground cinnamon. Eoll up closely and cut with a sharp 
knife into slices two-thirds of an inch thick. Put the rolls in a 
buttered tin. Let rise. Wash over the top with milk and bake. 
A quicker way, but not so nice, is to roll out, cut in round cakes 



BREAD. l8l 

and spread the top of each with butter, sugar and cinnamon. Pie 
crust may be utihzed in the same manner. 

Twist Rolls. — Take a piece of bread dough in the morning 
sufi&cient for a large tin of rolls. Work in a piece of butter, about 
1 tablespoonful, then divide the dough into parts the size of an 
egg, subdividing each part in unequal pieces; the largest piece 
form into a roll, tapering it at each end. Lay in a buttered tin 
without touching, flatten each end. The smaller pieces divide into 
three strips each. EoU these to a greater length than the other 
and braid. Place on the top of the large roll. Wash with milk 
and bake. 

Pocket Books.— 

1 quart bread dough. 

1 tablespoonful lard. 

2 eggs beaten light. 

Work the eggs and lard into the dough, using flour enough to 
keep the mixture stiff. Work well and let rise. An hour before 
baking roll out thin, sprinkle on a tablespoonful of white sugar 
and a very little soda. Work well again. Roll thin, brush the 
surface thoroughly with melted butter. Cut them larger than 
biscuits, fold over. Put in pans and let rise again. Bake quickly. 
Sweet Potato Rolls (Southern).— 

2 pounds of boiled sweet potatoes mashed well. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

^ cup yeast. 

1 pint milk. 
Pinch of salt. 

Flour to make a soft dough. 
Set them to rise. When light cut in cakes. Let rise one hour 
and bake. These will be found dehcious. Lish potatoes may be 
used in the same manner. 
Buns. — 

^ teaspoonful salt. 
^ cup butter. 

2 eggs beaten up in ^ pint cold milk. 

1 cup white sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls yeast. 



1 82 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Kub the flour and butter together, add the other ingredients, 
using flour enough to make a stiff dough, Let rise, work well, 
roll out and cut with a biscuit cutter. Let rise again and bake in 
a quick oven. Another way is to use the above ingredients mixed 
with three cujjs of flour, and to drop the dough by spoonfuls in 
the baking tin. 

Milk Crackers. — Kub ^ cup butter with 3 cups of flour; 
dissolve 1 teaspoonful of soda in ^ cupful water and strain over 
the flour; add 1 teaspoonful salt, 2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar and 
sweet milk enough to make a stiff dough. Knead well, beat with 
the rolling-pin, pounding it out thin. Eoll out, cut with a biscuit 
cutter and bake quickly. 

Crackers. — 

11 cups of flour before sifting. 
1 cup of lard or butter. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

Eub all thoroughly in the flour. Add cold water sufficient to 
knead up stiff, beat with the rolling-pin fifteen or twenty minutes. 
Eoll thin as for pie-crust, cut in squares, prick with a fork and 
bake in a moderate oven until light brown. 

Oatmeal Crackers. — 1 pint of oatmeal wet with 1 cupful 
cold water. Work into a mass with a spoon. Place on a board 
well-covered with dry oatmeal. Make compact as possible, roll 
out carefully to one-sixth inch in thickness, cut in squares with a 
knife. Bake in a very slow oven. These are excellent, and if 
kept dry or packed in oatmeal will be good for months. 

Graham Fruit Crackers, — 
1 quart Graham flour. 

1 cupful currants; figs, dates or raisins may be used 
by chopping them. 

Stir quite stiffly with the coldest water as briskly as possible. 
Then knead in all the flour necessary. Eoll out like pie-crust, 
only thicker. Cut with a biscuit cutter or in squares with a knife. 
Prick with a fork and bake in a moderate oven. Plain Graham 
crackers can be made by the same recipe, omitting the fruit only. 

These crackers Vvill lie found healthful and palatable. 



BREAD. 183 

MUFFINS. 

Gem pans must be of iron, the deep style should always be 
used. Heat thoroughly and butter well. 

Salt should never be used unless there is rising of some sort 
in the recipe. 

Muffin rings may be filled two-thirds full and baked upon a 
well-buttered griddle on top of the stove, turning ring and all 
with a knife or pancake shovel when one side is cooked to brown 
the other the same depth. The rings may be filled and set in a 
well-buttered baking-pan and baked in the oven, when, of course, 
no turning will be necessary. Rings two and one-half inches 
across and one and one-half inches deep are the most convenient 
size. 

Muffin rings or gem irons may be used in many recipes for 
gems, muffins and puffs. Occasionally the same recipes may be 
baked upon a griddle on top of the stove. This is often a very 
nice way where great haste is necessary. 

Interchange of Baking Powder. — Two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder called for by a recipe may be replaced by one teaspoonful 
cream tartar and one-half teaspoonful soda and vice versa, always 
using twice as much cream tartar as soda, and in substituting for 
baking powder see that the two together equal two-thirds of the 
amount of baking powder in the recipe. 

In substituting sour milk for sweet milk or water, soda alone 
must be used in the proportion of one -half teaspoonful to one cup 
of sour milk. In substituting sweet milk or water for sour milk 
one teaspoonful soda may be replaced by two large teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder. Where a large number of eggs beaten separately 
are required in a recipe, little if any baking powder is used. 
Never cut open a muffin or a crumpet of any kind, least of all 
one made of Indian meal. Pass the knife lightly around it to 
break the crust, then pull open with the fingers. 

Raised Muffins.— 

1 pint sweet milk. 

1 teaspoonful melted butter. 

2 eggs well- beaten. 



l84 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

^ cup yeast. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

Saleratus size of pea dissolved in 1 tablespoon hot 
water. 

1 tablesj^oonful sugar. 
Stir in enough sifted wheat flour to make a thick batter about 
the consistency of pound cake. Set to rise in a warm place for 
three hours in warm weather, longer in winter, or it may be mixed 
at night for breakfast. Butter a griddle and the inside of the 
muffin rings thoroughly. Set the rings on the griddle and half 
fill them with the batter. When one side is done turn the muffin, 
ring and all and bake a delicate brown. As they are done tear 
open, put a bit of butter in each and keep warm before the fire 
until served. Muffins should never be cut. Cold muffins may be 
toasted and served hot. Graham muffins are made the same way. 
Milton Muffins or Pop-overs (DeHcious).— 

1 egg. 

1 pint of milk. 

1 pint flour. 



teaspoonful salt. 



Beat the egg light, add part of the milk, all the flour, then the 
rest of the milk. Bake twenty minutes in buttered rings. Serve 
hot. They may be baked in gem-pans. These may be made of 
Graham. 

Quick Muffins.— 

1 egg. 

^ cup butter and lard mixed. 

1 pint sweet milk or milk and water. 

3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
If necessary the egg maybe omitted and one more teaspoonful 
baking powder used. Sift the baking powder with sufficient flour 
to make a stiff batter. Beat hard and bake in well-buttered 
muffin-rings or gem-pans. Add 1 tablespoouful of sugar. If de- 
sired Graham may be used in the same way. Sour milk and soda 
may be substituted in this recipe, using one teaspoonful of soda to 
a pint of milk. 



BREAD. 185 

Rice Muffins.— 

1 cupful of cold- boiled rice. 

2 eggs. 

1 pint of flour. 

1 quart of milk, or enough to make a thin batter. 

1 tablespoonful of lard or butter. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 
Beat hard and bake quickly. 
Rye Muffins.— 

2 cupful s of rye flour. 
^ cupful of sugar. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 
^ cupful of yeast. 

3 cupfuls of lukewarm water. 
Wheat flour to make a stiff dough. 

Let rise over night, or from morning to noon ; bake in muffin 
rings in the oven. 

Oatmeal Muffins.— 

1^ cupfuls of sour milk. 

2 beaten eggs. 

1 level teaspoonful of soda. 

2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 
Oatmeal to make a stiff batter. 

Beat the batter brJskly ; pour in buttered muffin rings and 
bake in a quick oven. i;elicious eaten hot. 

Quick Corn-meal Muffins.— Make same as Quick Muffins, 
using either sweet or sour milk, substituting corn-meal for wheat 
flour. 

Raised Corn-meal Muffins.— Pour boiling hot water over 
a quaft of corn-meal, stirring until it is a smooth thick batter. 
Let cool. When only warm add : 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
2 well beaten eggs. 

1 tablespoonful of yeast. 
^ teaspoonful of salt. 



1 86 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Set in a warm place to rise two hours, or, if wislied for break- 
fast let rise over night. Stir smooth and bake in muffin rings or 
gem pans. The yeast may be left out and the muffins baked as 
soon as mixed. 
Crumpets.— 

3 cupf uls of raised dough ; work into it 
^ cupful of melted butter, or butter and lard. 
2 eggs. 

Milk (sweet) to make a thick batter. 
Pour in muffin rings, set in a buttered pan ; let rise fifteen 
minutes and bake in a quick oven. 

Corn-meal Crumpets.— Make same as Kaised Corn -meal 
Muffins. Half an hour in a quick oven ought to cook them. 

GRMS AND WAFFIaELS. 

Sweet Milk Graham Gems.— 

1 egg, well beaten. 
1 pint of new milk. 
^ teaspoonf ul of salt. 
Flour to make a stiflP batter. 
Have iron gem- pans (the deep ones are better) well buttered 
and heated hot. Fill and bake in a quick oven. 

The secret of gems is to mix them thick enough so that they 
will stand up in the tins — no thicker or they will be dry. Serve 
hot. These may be made of water instead of milk. 

In making gems be sure to get them just thick enough to re- 
main in the tin without spreading. If too thick with flour they 
will be dry. Serve hot. Gems are quite as good made of water 
as of milk. 

Grahaivi Gems may be made like quick muffins, substituting 
Graham flour for wheat, and using sweet or sour milk. 
Hygienic Graham Gems.— 
1 pint of tepid water. 
1 tablespoonf ul of sugar or molasses. 
Graham flour enough to make a stiff batter. 
Tepid water prepares flour for cooking quickly. Have the 



BREAD. 187 

gem-irons hot and well buttered and the oven hot enough to crust 
the gems over quickly. Use no salt. 

Oatmeal Gems. — l cupful of oatmeal soaked in 1 cupful of 
water over night. In the morning add : 
1 cupful of sour milk. 
1 cupful of flour. 
1 tablespoonful of soda. 
^ teaspoonful of salt. 
Bake in hot, well buttered gem-irons. If too moist add more 
flour, as some brands of flour thicken more than others. 

Corn-meal Gems. — Sift 1 pint of meal and scald. Thin 
with cold water. Add: 

1 tablespoonful of lard or butter. 
^ teaspoonful of salt. 

2 eggs, beaten separately. 

Add, last of all, the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth. 
Bake quickly in hot, well buttered gem-irons. 
Laplanders for Breakfast. — 
2 eggs. 
2 cupfuls of sweet milk. 

1 tablespoonful of melted butter. 

2 cupfuls of flour. 

Beat well together and bake in hot, buttered gem-pans. 
Sally Lunn (Raised). 

3 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of melted lard or butter, or half and 

half. 
1 pint of sweet milk. 

3 pints of flour. 

1 cupful of yeast. 

|- teaspoonful of salt. 
Beat the yolks and whites of the eggs separately ; add the 
milk to the yolks, and the flour and salt to the whites, stir in the 
yeast and beat all together until very light. Butter the cake or 
bread-pan, pour in the batter and let rise over night. Bake an 
hour or even longer in a moderate oven and serve hot for break- 
fast. ^ cupful of sugar may be added. 



1 88 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Sally Lunn (Quick).— 

1 pint of sweet milk or cream. 

2 eggs, well beaten. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. * 

2^ pints of flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter, if milk is used. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

1 teaspoonful of soda and 2 of cream-tartar may be 
used instead of baking powder. 
Bake in a shallow pan, either square or long ; cut in sauare 
pieces and serve hot with butter. 
Raised WafHes.— 

1 quart of wheat flour. 

^ cupful of yeast. 

1 quart of warm sweet milk. 

2 eggs, beaten. 

1 tablespoonful of melted butter. 

1 tablespoonful of salt. 

Mix all the ingredients over night except eggs and butter. Add 
these in the morning and bake in waffle irons well buttered and 
very hot. Turn the irons once while baking that the waffles may 
be browned on both sides. Butter each as baked and lay one 
upon the other. Serve with maple sugar, shaved fine, maple 
syrup, or white sugar. 

[Note. — Waffle-irons should be very hot. Heat first one side 
and then the other on the stove. Butter each well ; fill f full of the 
batter, close and cook on one side ; turn over and brown the other.] 

Quick Waffles. 

3 eggs. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powdCT. 

1 quart of flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 
1 pint of sweet milk. 

^ teaspoonful of salt. 
Pour in hot, well-buttered waffle-irons. 

Sour milk and 1 teaspoonful of soda may be substituted for 
sweet milk. 



BREAD. 189 

Hominy Waffles.— 

1 cupful of cold-boiled hominy. 

1 cupful of milk. 
1|- cupfuls of flour. 

2 eggs, well beaten. 

1 teaspoonful of baking-powder. 

^ teaspoonful of salt. 

1 tablespoonful of melted butter. 
Stir the milk and hominy together with the flour in which the 
baking-powder is well mixed ; add the salt and eggs well beaten. 
Bake in well buttered waffle-irons. 

BAT^TRR GAKRS. 

PaN'Cakes and corn-bread require more baking powder than 
other things. 

Waffles and griddle-cakes are not so good in the first lot as 
those that follow, because after the iron has been used it will be- 
come smooth and the heat more even. 

Shortening, added in small quantities to griddle-cakes, makes 
them more tender. 

Grk)dles may be "greased" with a white turnip cut in halves. 
Eub the griddle with the cut side. It causes no smoke or taste 
and is better than butter or dripping. A soapstone griddle re- 
quires nothing. 

Buckwheat Cakes should have a little of the batter saved as 
yeast for the next lot. To keep sweet, fill the vessel with cold 
water and keep until night in a cool place. Then pour off the water 
which will have absorbed the acidity, and mix as at first, using 
this reserve batter as yeast. If necessary stir in ^ teaspoonful of 
soda dissolved in hot water. 

Dilute buttermilk for griddle-cakes with ^ water, to prevent 
the cakes becoming sticky. 

Mush to fry will brown better if the meal is mixed with milk 
and then poured into the boiling water. 

Griddle Cakes.— 

1 quart of buttermilk. 



190 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 
1 level tablespoonfiil of soda. 
1 cupful of Indian meal. 
6 cupfuls of wheat flour. 
Cakes made in this way will be tender, light and excellent. 
The buttermilk makes them light and puffy. Beat well. 

Buckwheat, Graham, and entire wheat flour may be made in 
the same way. 5 cups of either to 1 cup of Indian meal. 
Buckwheat Cakes. — 

1 quart buckwheat flour. 

^ cup yeast. 

1 tablespoonful salt. 

1 cup corn -meal or wheat flour. 

2 qijarts warm water. 

Beat well with a large spoon. Let it rise over night. After 
using one or two mornings add 1 teaspoonful saleratus. A pint 
of this batter will do to start the next lot. Add 2 tablespoonfuls 
molasses that the cakes may color well. 

Some cooks consider that ^ buckwheat flour, ^ Graham flour, 
and ^ Indian meal make the best and most healthy griddle cakes. 

Raised Graham Griddle Cakes. — 

2 cupfiTls Graham flour. 
1 cupful wheat flour. 

3 tablespoonfuls yeast. 

Warm water or milk to make a thin batter. 
Set in a warm place over night. Eeserve 1 cup of this mix- 
ture for yeast for next time. Into the remainder stir ^ teaspoon- 
ful of soda dissolved in warm water. One or two thoroughly 
beaten eggs may also be added to great advantage. Bake on a 
griddle for breakfast. 

Wheat Griddle Cakes may be made in the same way. A 
little shortening will be an improvement. 
Raised Corn-meal Griddle Cakes. — 
1 cupful corn-meal, scalded. 
1 quart boiling water. 
1 cupful flour. 
1 pint cold water or sweet milk, or half and half. 



BREAD. 191 

I cupful yeast or 1 cake yeast. 
^ teaspoonful salt. 
If this batter is too thick to pour well add milk or water until 
the right consistency. Bake in the morning. Leave a cupful of 
this batter as yeast for the next time. 

Quick Corn-meal Griddle Cakes.— Make same as quick com 
meal muffins, and fry on a griddle. 
Rye Griddle Cakes.— 

1^ cups sour milk. 

4 tablespoonfuls molasses. 

1 cup wheat flour. 

1 egg. 

1 cup rye meal. 

1 small teaspoonful soda. 
Bake on a hot griddle. 
Flannel Cakes.— 

2 cups corn-meal, scalded with 

1 pint boiling water. When partly cool add 

1 quart sour or buttermilk. 

2 eggs, beaten in with the milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls soda, sifted, with enough flour to 
make a thin batter. 
Graham Griddle Cakes, Quick.— 
1 cupful Graham flour. 
^ teaspoonful salt. 
^ cupful wheat flour. 
1| cups buttermilk or sour milk. ' 
1 teaspoonful lard, melted. 
1 egg, well beaten. 

1 level teaspoonful soda, in a tablespoonful hot 

water. 

The same rule can be used with sweet milk and the addition 
of 2 level teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, or baking powder may be 
used instead. These cakes are very nice without the egg. 

Corn Griddle Cakes,— Delicious.— 

2 cups rich buttermilk. 
^ teaspoonful salt. 



192 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

1 level teaspoonful soda. 

Corn-meal to make almost the consistency of thin 
mush. 
Have the griddle hot. Drop on a spoonful. When brown on 
one side turn and brown the other. When first dropped on the 
griddle flatten them out with the back of the spoon. Never use a 
knife to open them. If made accorJiug to rule they will be light 
and puffy. Tear open and butter. 

Wheat Pancakes,— Sweet Milk or Sour. — 
1 egg. 
1 pint sour milk. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 
^ teaspoonful salt. 
Flour to make a batter. 

If sweet milk is lised add 2 teaspoonfuls cream-tartar. 1 tea- 
spoonful of batter or lard makes them tender. Nice without egg. 

Crumb Griddle Cakes.— Soak pieces of dry bread in cold 
water until very soft. Press free from water, mash fine, or rub 
through a colander. To 

2 pints of bread pulp, add 

2 beaten eggs. 

1 teaspoonful butter. 
^ teaspoonful salt. 
^ teaspoonful soda, dissolved in 
1 cup of sour milk. 

Wheat flour to make a batter a little thicker than for 
buckwheat cakes. 
Hominy Griddle Cakes,— Delicious.— 

1 pint hominy, boiled very soft. Add 
1 pint sifted corn-meal. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
1 teaspoonful butter. 

3 eggs. 

Make into 'a thin batter with 1 quart sweet milk. 

Beat together some time. Bake on a griddle. These can be 
baked in waffle irons. "When well made and baked very thin 
these cakes are delicious, especially when served with maple syrup. 



BREAD. 193 

When eggs are not convenient, yeast makes a good substi- 
tute. Put a large tablespoonful in the batter and let it stand sev- 
e^-al hours to rise. 

Rice Griddle Cakes. — Make the same as rice waffles and 
bake on a hot griddle immediately. 

Potato Tea Cakes. — Boil and mash some potatoes, add 
flour and a little salt, pounding in while hot. Let the mixture 
be the consistency of soft biscuit. Eoll out the dough ^ inch 
thick, cut in squares and bake on a griddle like buckwheat cakes. 
Split, butter and cover as soon as cooked, and so continue until 
all are baked. 

Hoe Cakes. — Make a batter of water and corn -meal. Salt 
slightly and bake in cakes ^ inch thick on a well buttered griddle. 
Cook slowly, first one side and then the other. A favorite 
Southern dish. Mixed with sweet milk and the addition of an 
egg, they will be found very nice. 

Kentucky Corn Dodgers. — 
1 pint sifted meal. 
1 large tablespoonful lard. 
^ pint cold water. 

1 pinch salt. 

Heat the griddle. This is better than a tin, as it will not 
scorch on the bottom. Mix the ingredients well. Shape the 
dough into balls a httle larger than an egg. Drop them on 
a griddle and bake in the oven until brown on the bottom; 
change and brown the top. Serve hot with plenty of butter. 
Delicious. 

Instead of lard, ^ cupful of cracknels rubbed fine may be sub- 
stituted and the cakes called cracknel dodgers. 

Southern Dinner Bread.— 

2 cupfuls cold water. 

1 tablespoonful lard. 

2 eggs. 

^ teaspoonful salt. 

Corn-meal to make a batter just stiff enough to shake 
smooth in the pan. 

13 



194 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Butter a square pan, fill | full and bake. Cut in square 
pieces. Break them apart and butter well. Cracknel corn-bread 
may be made by stirring in a cupful of cracknels. 
Batter Bread.— 

1 quart of buttermilk. 

^ teacupfiil of boiled rice. 

4 eggs, beaten separately. 

1 cupful of wheat flour. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

1 tablesijoonf 111 of lard. 
The rice may be omitted, if used, mash well. Com-meal sufiS- 
cient for a stiff batter. Add the beaten whites of eggs. ^ teaspoon- 
ful of soda dissolved in a little milk may be added. Bake in a 
quick oven three quarters of an hour. If a broom splint is run 
through and nothing adheres, the bread is done. A round pan is 
Jbetter for corn-bread than a square one. 
Sweeteiied Johnny Cake.— 

1 quart of buttermilk. 

1 cupful of molasses. 

4 teacupfuls of Indian Meal. 

1 tablespoonful of soda. 

2 teacupfuls of wheat flour. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 

1 tablespoonful of lard. 

1 egg. 
Use less sweetening, if prefen-ed. Bake in a quick oven. 
This rule will make two cakes. Use round tins, the cake will rise 
better. Some cooks take a small iron frying-pan and use to bake 
in, so that the cake may rise. Serve hot with plenty of butter. 
The same batter will make good corn-meal muffins and excellent 
fritters fried in hot lard. If made with sweet milk, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of cream -tartar must be added. 

Graham Fruit Mush. — Make a mush by stirring Graham 
flour slowly into boiling water. It must not be too thick. Cook 
20 minutes. Then stir in a few tablespoonfuls of milk or cream, 
and 1 cupful of fresh dates, chopped. Figs may be used instead, 
also raisins or currants. Cook two minutes longer, taking care 



BREAD. 195 

not to scorch. Apples peeled and cut fine may be substituted, in 
which case it must be set back and allowed to simmer slowly until 
the apples are done. Stir the fruit into the mush thoroughly. 
Serve hot with cream and sugar or hard sauce. It is good 
poured into a mold or cup previously dipped in cold water to pre- 
vent sticking, and set away to cool. Serve as above wdth cream 
and sugar or hard sauce. 

Graham Musb, Plain. — Plain Graham mush made in the 
same manner, omitting the fruit and milk, and rather thin, 
served with cream and sugar, or some plain pudding sauce is very 
good. What is left may be filled into a mold or pudding dish 
and shced to fry next morning for breakfast. 

Corn-meal Mush. — Salt boiling water and stir corn-meal in 
slowly until a thick smooth mush is formed. This may be served 
the same as Graham musb, and what is left may be fried next 
day. Boil slowly an horn-. 

Fried Mush. — Make the mush as above, com-meal or Gra- 
ham; better still, a mixture of the two will be found desirable. 
Put in a mold or pudding dish to cool and shce for frying, or dip 
mufiin rings in cold water, set on a plate and fill with mush, in 
the morning slip the stiffened shapes out. Eoll either shces or 
circles in flour, and fry slowly in hot lard or dripping. Some 
cooks fry fresh mush, dropping it hot into a well buttered frying- 
pan. It is nice cut in slices and fried like doughnuts, in lard suf- 
ficient to cover. Serve with molasses or maple syrup. 

Oatmeal. — 

2 cupfuls of oatmeal. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 
8 cupfuls of boihng water. 

Put in a basin and stir well, set in a steamer and cook one and 
a half hours. A double boiler may be used to cook it in, or, a pail 
set in a kettle of boiling water. And if great care is used, it is 
possible to cook in a stew-pan on the stove. Steam cooked, or 
rolled oats may be cooked in much less time. If rolled oats, the 
quantity mentioned will cook during the time given for boihng the 
potatoes for breakfast. Serve with fruit, sugar, cream, butter or any 
plain pudding sauce. If steamed, part milk may be used in cooking. 



196 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Oatmeal Mush Fried. — The mush to fry should be stiff and 
dry. Mold in a deep dish, cut in slices and fry in butter and 
lard, equal parts. 

Pearl Wheat.— 

^ cup of pearl wheat. 2 cups of milk. 

4 cups of water. 1 teaspoonful of salt. 

Let the milk and water boil up, then stir in the wheat. Put 
in a double boiler or a pail, set in a kettle of boiling water. Boil 
two hours, let stand all night on the back of the range and in the 
morning heat up gradually just before serving. Oat-meal can be 
prepared in the same way. 

Cracked Wheat. — Use ^ of cracked wheat to | salted cold 
water. Cover closely and cook slowly, without stirring, for 3 hours. 
A double boiler is best. 

Granulated Graham.— 

1 cupful of the flakes. 1 quart boiling milk and water. 

Put in a deep dish. Cover. Set in hot water, and let the 
flakes swell until ready to serve. Five minutes' time is sufficient 
to prepare them for the table. Salt slightly. Serve with cream 
and sugar. 

Cerealine.— 

1^ pints cereaUne. 

1 quart of milk, or milk and water. 

Salt and butter to taste. Boil two or three minutes. Serve 
with cream and powdered sugar, or Vanilla sauce. A very delicate 
dish, if sliced when cold, and fried. 

Boiled Wheat. — Whole wheat grains may be soaked in cold 
water two or three hours, or over night; boiled in the same water 
two hours or until tender. Let simmer, and do not burn. To be 
eaten with milk and sugar, or maple syrup. A capital dish. 

Wheatlet. — Prepare same as Granulated Graham. Very nice. 

Cream or Milk Toast. — Heat 1 pint of milk to boiling and 
add a tablespoonful of flour rubbed smooth in a little cold milk, a 
teaspoonful of butter and ^ teaspoonful salt. Pour this over ^ a 
dozen slices of nicely toasted bread. 

Some prefer to omit the flour, a little more butter may be 
added if this is done. 



BREAD. 197 

Fruit Toast. — Toast bread a golden brown. Dip each slice 
in boiling water for a second. Butter well. Lay slices in the 
bottom of a deep dish. Have currants, cherries or any preferred 
fruit, either fresh or canned, heated boiling hot and well sweetened. 
Cover the first slice of toast well with the hot fruit, then add 
another slice, and another layer of fruit until the dish is full with 
fruit last layer. Sei-ve hot or warm. This may be varied, and 
prepared still more quickly by substituting for the toast thick slices 
of well buttered bread and proceeding to cover with hot fruit as 
before. A nice and quick dessert. 

Cheese Toast. — Make some slices of toast, cut off their crusts, 
then butter them. Cut some cheese into thin flakes, and put in a 
saucepan with a piece of butter, and a little mustard if desired. 
Place the pan over the fire and stir until the cheese is melted, and 
the whole is well mixed and smooth ; then pour the mixture on the 
toast and serve hot. 

Welsh Rarebit. — Put 4 ounces of cheese, sliced thin or 
grated, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream or milk, and a piece of butter 
the size of a walnut into a saucepan and boil, stirring it gently all 
the time until it becomes thick and smooth, then add a raw egg 
and a little Cayenne pepper. Put the saucepan again on the fire 
stirring until the whole is hot. Serve on squares of dry toast. 
This will be sufficient for four people. 

Chicken Sandwiches.— Chop the flesh of cold roast fowls 
fine. Season with pepper and salt, and spread ^ an inch thick 
between thin slices of buttered bread. If the meat is very nice, it 
may be seasoned and laid in close neat strips between the buttered 
bread. 

German Toast. — 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 
i pint sweet milk. 
1 egg well beaten. 

Stir well, and in this mixture dip slices of bread (if very dry 
dip first in cold water), and fry on a buttered griddle a light brown 
on each side. Omit the sugar and afterward roll in powdered 
sugar if preferred. This is a delicate dish for tea. With the addi- 



198 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

tion of a hot plain pudding sauce with a pint of Zante currants, 
it makes an excellent dessert. 

Steamed Bread. — Steam half a loaf of stale bread (put it in 
a common steamer) until thoroughly softened. Cut in slices 1^ 
inches thick and serve with a hot plain pudding sauce for dessert, 
if a cupful of Zante currants he boiled up with the sauce it will be 
an improvement. 

Apple Toast. — Peel, core and slice 6 tart apples. Put 1 
tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan with the apples, scatter over 
them 2 tablespoonfuls white sugar. Stew quickly, stirring. Cut 3 
slices of bread i an inch thick, and fry both sides a light brown. 
Take \\]i on a dish. Spread the apples on an inch thick. Dust 
over with powdered sugar and serve hot. 

Rolled Sandwiches. — Fresh bread is a necessity for rolled 
sandwiches. Cut it lengthwise from the loaf in thin slices, so thin 
that it is necessary to butter the loaf evenly and thinly before 
cutting. Trim off the crust and cover the slice with a thin layer 
of ham grated or chopped. Chicken is sometimes used, in which 
case it must be seasoned slightly, and a little ham minced with it 
is an improvement. These sandwiches should be small. After the 
grated meat is spread on smoothly, roll up like a roll jelly cake, 
and one after the other wrap tightly in a long narrow cloth to 
keep in shape. Before serving tie each one with a bit of the 
narrowest possible ribbon. A party dish. 

Ham and E2:g Sandwiches.— Chop the ham fine ; also as 
many hard-boiled eggs as required. Mix. Season with salt, pep- 
per and a little mustard. Moisten slightly with melted butter. 
Spread this mixture between thin slices of bread nicely buttered. 
If to be very nice trim off the crusts and cut the slices in two. 

Sandwiches. — Cut bread in thin even slices. Spread thinly 
with butter. Lay on a thin slice of pressed meat, cold tongue, 
veal, roast beef, or any of the preparations of grated ham or 
chicken given above. Lay over this another slice of thinly buttered 
bread, and cut in half thus forming two sandwiches. 

Chicken and Ham Rolls, a Party Dish.— Take out half the 
inside from French or light home-made rolls. Butter the cavity 
and fill up with a mixture of minced chicken and ham. 



BRITTEKS should be fried in as much lard as is required for 
doughnuts. The lard must be boiling hot, when the fritter 
will rise quickly to the top. They do not require turning 
over. Send to the table hot, having fresh hot ones to be sent in 
as wanted, for they become heavy if left long standing. 

Fey the fritters as soon as the batter is ready that they may 
be perfectly light. Serve for tea or lunch with powdered sugar. 
Taken with a plain pudding sauce they make a very nice dessert. 
Syrup, too, is an appropriate sauce. Use common or maple syrup. 
Do not make the batter too thick or it will brown on the outside 
before the center is cooked. 

Never stick a fork into anything frjdngin hot lard, as doing so 
allows it to absorb the fat. Take out with a skimmer or split spoon. 
Plain Fritters.— 
2 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
1 pint sour milk. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 
^ teaspoonful salt. 
Flour for batter. 
Beat thoroughly. Drop a large tablespoonful at a time in hot 
lard. Fry brown and roll in powdered sugar. Make the batter 
about like pancakes. 

Plain Fritters (11).— 

3 cups of flour sifted. 3 eggs. 

1 pint sweet milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
1 spoonful salt. 

Serve with sugar, syrup or a plain sauce. 

(199) 



200 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Cream Fritters. — Mix a pint and a half of wheat flour with 
a pint of milk. Beat 6 eggs to a froth and stir them into the 
flour a little at a time, beating thoroughly. Grate in ^ nutmeg, add 
2 teaspoonfuls salt and 1 pint of cream. Stir just long enough to 
mix in the cream and drop by tablespoonfuls into boiling lard. 
Sprinkle powdered sugar and put a spoonful of jelly or marmalade 
on each one. 

Oxford Fritters.— 

8 ounces of grated stale bread; soak in just sufficient 
milk to cover it. When soft stir in — 

3 beaten eggs. 

1 tablespoonful flour. 

^ pound Zante currants. 

^ nutmeg grated. 
Make the mixture in balls the size of an egg and fry a light 
brown in hot lard. Serve plain or same as Cream Fritters. 
Apple Fritters. - 

1 quart sweet milk. 

3 eggs. 

12 apples chopped fine. 

^ teaspoonful salt. 

Flour for batter. 
Beat the eggs separately and add the whites whipped to a 
froth last of all. This will take the place of baking powder. 
Stir the apples (chopped) into the batter thoroughly. It is an im- 
provement if the apples have been sprinkled lightly with lemon 
juice before stirring in. Serve with sweetened lemon juice, maple 
syrup, molasses or Vanilla Pudding Sauce. Cream and sugar, or 
butter and sugar will answer. 

Apple Fritters (II). — Prepare the apples. Make as the first 
fritter batter given in this department. Stir in the apples, fry and 
serve as above. Or make the second batter given, using baking 
powder and stir in the apples, frying them. Use more eggs if 
wished very light, beating them separately. A teaspoonful of but- 
ter will make them more tender. Sliced apples (circular with the 
core removed) may be stirred in instead of the chopped fruit, and 



FRITTERS. 201 

the fritters dropped into the lard by spoonfuls, one slice in each 
fritter. If the apples, either chopped or sliced, are sprinkled with 
lemon juice before using the flavor is improved. Place on a warm 
sieve to drain. Sift powdered sugar and cinnamon over them, or 
use any of the sauces given above. [A shallow pan is better for 
these and other chopped fruit fritters. If the lard is very deep 
they are apt to fly apart.] 
Banana Fritters.— 

1 cup of flour. 

2 eggs beaten separately. 
1 tablespoonf ul butter. 

1 cup milk or water. 

Add the whites of the eggs last of aU, whipped to a stiff froth. 
Slice the bananas (three will answer) around (sprinkling with a 
little lemon will improve the flavor). Stir into the batter and fry 
by spoonfuls in hot lard, having a slice of the banana in each 
fritter. Sift powdered sugar over them and serve. The daintiest 
possible dessert. 

A simpler way is to cut the bananas in two across and steep 
them in a syrup of sugar and water. After an hour, drain, roll in 
flour and fry in liot lard. Boil the sugar and water into a syrup 
and serve with them as a sauce. Peel first. 

Pineapple Fritters. — These may be made in the exact 
manner used for banana fritters, taking the rule first given. Omit 
the lemon. The pineapple will be improved by sprinkling the 
slices with sugar over night. Serve for dessert. 

Peach Fritters. — Make a batter same as for the first apple 
fritters, taking half the rule. 1 teaspoonful butter will make more 
tender. Peel and cut the peaches in halves, stir them in the bat- 
ter and fry in boiling fat until a dehcate brown. Place half in 
each fritter, drain in a sieve and dust with powdered sugar. Cream 
may be added if desired. 

Rice Fritters.— 

1 pint of cooked rice. 
^ cup of sweet milk. 

2 eggs. 

Flour to stiffen. 



202 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Fry in plenty of hot lard, serve with butter and sugar, molas- 
ses or jelly of some kind. Serve hot laid on a folded napkin. 
Juice of a lemon improves them. 

Corn Fritters. — See Vegetables for corn-oysters and com 
griddle cakes. Canned com may be used by draining and chop- 
ping fine. 

Parsnip Fritters. — Scrape and boil tender 2 large parsnips. 
Rub through a colander or mash carefully. Beat in 
1 egg. 
1 tablespoonful of milk. 

1 heaping teaspoonful of flour, 
f teaspoonful of salt. 

^ teaspoonful of pepper. 

Mix and make into small, flat cakes, flour slightly and fry on 
a griddle in plenty of butter or nice dripping. Turn to brown both 
sides. 

Carrot Fritters. — Beat 2 small boiled carrots to a pulp with 
a spoon, then add 

2 eggs, well beaten. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls of cream or milk. 

1 teaspoonful of sugar. 

^ teaspoonful of salt. " 

Beat well together and drop by spoonfuls in boiling lard. 
When a good color, drain, squeeze over them the juice of an or- 
ange, and strew with powdered sugar. A nice side dish at dinner, 
tea or a party. 

Potato Fritters. — See Vegetables for Potato Balls. Cold 
mashed potatoes may be used. 

Clam Fritters.— 

2 cupfuls of milk. 
2 eggs. 

1 cupful of flour. 

^ teaspoonful each of salt and pepper. 
Cook the clams a few minutes in their own liquor, drain and 
stir in the batter, fry in butter on a griddle, turning to brown, or 



FRITTERS. 203 

drop by spoonfuls in hot sweet dripping. If the clams are thought 
too tough, chop fine before adding to the batter. 

Oyster Fritters. — Make same as for clam fritters, taking 1 
cupful of milk, 1 cupful of strained oyster juice to can of oysters, 
proceeding as above. Do not chop the oysters. 

Squash Fritters. 

1 pint of cooked squash. 

2 eggs. 

1 pint of milk. 
^ teaspoonful salt. 
Flour to make them turn easy on the griddle. 
Imperial Fritters. — 

1 cupful of water. 
Butter size of an egg. 
1 cojffee-cupful of flour. 
5 eggs. 
Boil the water and butter together; stir in the flour and work 
the paste with a spoon until smooth and well cooked. Take from 
the fire and beat in the eggs thoroughly, one at a time. Beat a 
few minutes longer, and drop by spoonfuls into hot lard. Do not 
crowd, as they will expand and become hollow and light hke cream 
puffs. Use lemon, vanilla or Imperial Pudding Sauce with them. 
Imperial Fritter Sauce.— 
1 cupful water. 
^ cupful sugar. 
1 tablespoonful corn-starch. 
^ lemon. 
A bit of butter. 
Boil the water and mix the starch and sugar and stir in dry. 
Slice the lemon and drop in. Add the butter, and let boU until 
transparent. This is nice with the above fritters and may be used 
with almost any kind. 




PM^^^Y. 



a LAZE pie crust for fruit, custard and other pies by brush- 
ing over the under crust with a little beaten egg just before 
filling with the pie mixture. If the pie is very delicate in 
color use the beaten white of the egg only; this will prevent the 
crust from becoming soaked with the juices of the pie. 

Tart Shells may be very ornamentally glazed, by removing 
from the oven when partly baked, brushing over with the beaten 
white of an egg and then covering thickly with powdered white 
sugar. Sprinkle with a few drops of water and return to the 
oven. 

Fruit juices, pie-plant, etc., may be prevented from boiling 
out of the crust in several ways. 

1st. Put the usual quantity of sugar for the pie in a bowl. 
Add enough cold water to form a kind of dough ; stir in a heap- 
ing tablespoonful of flour, or a level teaspoonful of corn starch 
and mix thoroughly. Pour this over the pie-plant or other fruit. 
Add the top crust and bake in a hot oven. 

Another: Dust some flour on the bottom crust before filling, 
and in making pies of fresh fruit put the sugar on the bottom 
crust. Or roll up a small tube of white writing paper and insert 
in an opening in center of the upper crust, letting the lower end 
rest on the under crust and the upper project above the pie. The 
juice will collect in this and it may be removed when the pie is 
done. 

A TABLESPOONFUL of flour may be substituted in a squash or 
pumpkin pie as equar in value to 1 egg. 

(204) 



PASTRY. 205 

A MARBLE SLAB is much nicer for rolling out pastry than an 
ordinary bread-board, as it keeps the dough cool and firm. 

Dough for pie-crust should always be rolled one way, from 
you. Turn the crust each time, and roll in the same direction 
untn it is the required shape. 

Pie without an upper crust should always have a heavy edge; 
and lay on a narrow strip and pinch together, or cut off the crust 
somewhat larger than the tin and roll this over -with the fingers. 

Pastby is very much improved by being kept on ice an hour 
before rolling out. 

IcE-WATER, or the very coldest obtainable, should be used in 
mixing pastry. 

Under-crust of pies should be a little the thicker. 

Two KINDS of crust may be used in making a quantity of pies. 
One way of doing this is to make the dough of moderate richness, 
take a Httle more than half the crust and roll in more butter or 
lard, spread and fold, roll out; repeat this once or twice, thus 
giving a flakey upper-crust. Take the plainer portion for the under 
crust. Some cooks make two distinct kinds of dough, one very 
nice for the upper crust, and the other shortened with any kind of 
dripping for the under-crust. This will be found quite an econom- 
ical arrangement. 

Good pastry may be made by using as little water as possible 
to get the dough in shape. Let the water be very cold ; knead the 
crust slightly. Place in a well-heated oven as soon as the pie is ready. 

Butter pie-tins well, though some expert cooks simply flour 
them. 

An apple-pie may require forty minutes, while a rich lemon- 
pie will cook in twenty. 

MiNCE-piEsmaybemade in quantities and kept in a cool place 
until needed. 

PuMPKiN-FLouR cau be bought at any grocery, with full 
directions for using. This makes pies fully as nice as the fresh 
pumpkin, with less trouble. 

Corn-meal added in the proportion of ^ to | flour makes pie- 
crust more light and digestible. 



2o6 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Biscuit pie-crust is very wholesome. 

Apples used for mince pies need not be peeled. "Wash, dry 
and chop fine. This will be found a saving in labor. 

Dried Apples, soaked over night and chopped fine, may be 
substituted for the fresh fruit in mince-meat. 

Dried Fruit, prepared with sugar, such as dried cherries, 
gooseberries, etc., may be substituted instead of raisins in, 
mince pies. Soak over night in as little water as possible and 
throw in both water and fruit. This will be found very nice, as 
well as economical. 

White Potatoes, chopped fine and soaked over night in vine- 
gar, are sometimes used as a substitute for apples in mince -meat. 

Fruit Pies take less sugar if they are sweetened after baking. 
Remove the upper crust to put in the sugar. 

Wild Grapes may be preserved for winter use by putting in a 
jar and covering with molasses. These will be found very nice 
for pies. 

Meringue is a frosting made of the beaten white of an egg 
sweetened to the taste and spread over pies or custards. It must 
be put in the oven always to harden. 

Apples cut in quarters and stewed in sweet cider or molasses 
are good for plain pies. Season with cinnamon or nutmeg. This 
will keep several months. 

Green Apples, when quite small, may be stewed whole with 
the skins on, strained when soft and sweetened. These make nice 
pies. Use just water enough to prevent burning. 

Dreed Apples should be soaked over night. Have boiling 
water to cover them and stew soft. If not tart put in lemon juice 
or sour cider. When they are partly stewed a little orange peel 
cooked with them gives a fine flavor. Season with sugar and nut- 
meg. Strain through a colander. Make very good pies. 

Pumpkins that have commenced to decay may be preserved by 
cutting up the best parts, stewing until soft, sweetening well with 
sugar and molasses and seasoning with ginger. Scald in the sea- 
soning thoroughly. Keep in a stone jar in a cool place. When 
wanted for use thin the desired amount with milk and eggs. 



PASTRY. 20;: 

PIRS. 
Pie-crust 

1 quart flour, before sifting. 

1 cupful butter or lard. 

^ teaspoonful salt. 

1 level teaspoonful baking-powder. 

Cold water sufficient to work the dough in shape. 
Do not touch the paste with the hands until ready to roll out. 
Chop shortening and flour together with a knife. Have the lard 
or butter cold as possible. When well cut together add water 
gradually, still cutting, until the whole is in form. Be careful, in 
adding the water, not to allow the dough to become wet in spots. 
This rule will be sufficient for 2 large pies. Divide in half. 
Take one piece and use a little more than half for the crust, and 
roll out, following the directions given at the head of this chapter. 
Cover the pie dish, glaze if necessary, fill, roll the upper crust a 
little thinner, cutting several openings in it for the escape of 
steam, pinch the edges of the two together after trimming neatly 
with a knife. Proceed in the same manner with the dough for the 
other pie. 

To make the pies still nicer, ^ of the shortening may be left 
out, and the pastry intended for the upper crust can be rolled flat, 
spread with butter or lard, sprinkled with flour, folded together 
and rolled again, repeating this operation until the shortening is 
used. This will give a flakey upper crust. Instead of spreading 
the lard, it may be cut in bits and dotted over the surface; sprin- 
kle with flour and roll as before. 

Even less shortening may be used, as the presence of the 
baking-powder in some degree supplies its place. The powder 
should be sifted with the flour first of all. 
Puif Paste.— 

1 pound flour. 

1 pound butter. 
Mix ^ the butter with the flour, quite stiff, using as little cold 
water as possible. Eoll out, cut part of the remaining butter in 
bits and dot over the paste, dredge well with flour, fold over, roll 



2o8 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

lightly together and set aside in a cool place for a few minutes, 
then roll them again, put on butter and dredge as before, roll up 
and then roll out. Repeat this until the butter is gone. Do it 
quickly and handle as little as possible. 

Puff paste is only for upper crusts. Use a plain paste for the 
under crust. Puff paste will keep a week on ice. 
Cream Pie-crust, — 

1 pint sifted floux. 
^ teaspoonful baking-powder. 
Sweet cream enough to make a stiff paste. 
This will make 3 medium-sized pies. 
Epicurean Pie-crust.— 
1 pint flour. 

1 egg. 

^ small cupful water. 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls butter. 

Cut 1 tablespoouful of the butter up with the flour. Break 
the egg into a bowl, beat up light, add the water and mix the 
flour into a stiff dough with this. Take the half desired for the 
upper crust and spread with part of the butter left, fold together 
and roll out. Repeat this once more, or until the butter is gone. 

Healthful Pie-crust. — Good crusts for plain pies are made 
with rich milk turned sour, using a half teaspoonful soda to a 
large cupful of the milk. Still better crusts are made of sour 
cream sweetened in the same way with soda. 

Mealy potatoes boiled in salted water and mixed with the 
same quantity of flour and wet with sour milk sweetened in the 
same way with soda, make a good crust. 

Hygienic Cream Crust. — Equal quantities of Graham flour, 
white flour and Indian meal. Rub evenly together and wet with 
very thin sweet cream. Roll thin and bake in an oven as hot as 
for common pie-crust. 

Pie Shells. — Make a rich pie crust, and line pie tins, or 
saucers ; prick several times with a fork and bake in a quick oven. 
Put away in a stone jar, or in a bread box, and when needed fill 
with cranberry sauce, apple sauce or any kind of canned fruii. 
Heat through in the oven, which may be done by putting the crust 



PASTRY. 209 

in a pie tin. Or make a custard of any kind, put one of the 
shells in a pie tin, fill with the custard and bake. These are con- 
venient for an emergency. 

Green Apple Pie. — Pare and core tart ripe apples. Slice 
thin. Fill the under crust. Add a small teacupful of sugar, 2 
tablespoonfuls of water. Dredge the top well with flour. Dot 
over with bits of butter; flavor with cinnamon or nutmeg. Add 
the upper crust. Bake about forty minutes. If the apples are not 
tart enough add the lemon juice. A nice apple sauce may be used 
in pie shells. See above. Sweet cream may be served with apple pies. 
Apple Meringue Pie. — Line a pie pan with an under crust, 
fill with smooth stewed apples and bake. Beat the whites of 2 
eggs to a stiff froth with 1 tablespoonful powdered sugar; flavor 
with a few drops of extract of cinnamon or nutmeg. Spread this 
over the top of the pie and brown lightly in the oven. The white 
of 1 egg can be used for meringue. 

Apple Custard Pie. — Pare, slice and stew ripe tart apples. 
Mash very fine, or put through a colander. For each pie allow: 

1 yolk of egg. 

1 cupful sugar. 

1 teaspoonful butter. 

f cupful rich sweet milk. 

Flavor with nutmeg. 
Bake with 1 crust. Beat the whites of the eggs with a little 
sugar. Spread over the top. Brown in the oven. 

Dried Apple Pie. — Stew dried apples tender in a little water. 
Sweeten to taste. Flavor with a few strips of lemon peel, or a 
slice of lemon. (^ teaspoonful of lemon extract may be used.) 
Beat fine, or put through a colander. Bake with two crusts. Some 
cooks add 1 beaten egg to each pie. 
Lemon Pie, Plain. — 

1 lemon juice and grated yellow rind. 

1 cupful sugar. 

1 cupful boiling water. 

1 tablespoonful cornstarch, or 2 of flour. 

1 teaspoonful melted butter. 

2 yolks of eggs well beaten. 

X4 



2IO THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Rub the cornstarch smooth in a little cold water, then add the 
cup 3f boiling water. Stir till it boils and cooks the cornstarch. 
Add the butter and sugar. Remove from the fire, and when partly 
cool, add the yolk of the eggs, the lemon juice and grated rind. 
Line a pie tin with crust. Fill with the mixture. Bake until the 
crust is done. Beat the white of the eggs to a stiff froth, with 2 
tablespoonfuls sugar. Spread this over the top of the pie as a 
meringue. Return to the oven and brown slightly. This makes 
one pie. This recipe may be varied by using 1 egg only, stirring 
yolk and white together, inclosing the mixture between two crusts, 
and baking like an apple or other fruit pie. 
Lemon Pie, Bich.— 

Juice and grated yellow rind of 1 large, or 2 small 

lemons. 
4 yolks of eggs and 1 white of egg beaten with 7 

tablespoonfuls white sugar. 
1 tablespoonful melted butter. 
Stir all the ingredients together. Line a pie tin with crust. 
Fill and bake until the pie is done. Beat the 3 remaining whites 
of eggs with 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. Spread over the top. 
Return to the oven and brown lightly. 
Lemon Pie with two Crusts. — 

Juice and grated yellow rind of 1 lemon. 
1 teacupf ul sugar, 2 eggs. 
1 teaspoouful butter. 
1 teaspoonful cornstarch. 
1 cupful sweet milk. 
Beat lemon, sugar and egg together for ten minutes. Rub the 
butter and cornstarch. Mix thoroughly with the other ingredients. 
Add the milk. Water can be substituted if milk is not convenient. 
Stir until well mixed. Pour into a deep pie -pan lined with paste 
and cover with a top crust. Wet the edges of the paste and press 
tightly together. Bake quickly. 
Lemon-Molasses Pie. — 
1 cupful molasses. 

Juice and grated yellow rind of 2 small lemons. 
1 tablespoonful melted butter. Mix. 



PASTRY. 311 

Line a de^p pie-plate with pastry. Pour in a portion of the 
mixture. Cover over with pie- crust rolled thin, then more of the 
lemon mixture, dredging each layer with flour. Cover with another 
layer of crust, then the lemon mixture for the last to be covered 
with a top crust. This will make one large deep pie. Bake one- 
half hour. 

Lemon-Potato Pie.— 

1 large white potato grated. 
Juice of 1 lemon. 
"White of 1 egg well-beaten. 
1 cupful water. 1 cupful sugar. 
Pour this into an undercrust and bake. When baked, have 
ready the beaten whites of 2 eggs sweetened by 2 tablespoonfuls 
white sugar and flavored with a few drops of rose water. Spread 
this over the top of the pie and return to the oven to set, not brown. 
This pie should be just cold for dinner. The 3 yolks of the eggs 
may be utilized for the preparation of the lemon pie with two 
crusts given before. Or this pie may be put into two crusts, omit- 
ting the meringue, and using 1 whole egg instead of a white. 
Orange Pie.— 

1 orange, juice and grated yellow rind. 
1 cupful sugar. 

1 tablespoonful corn-starch or flour. 

2 yolks of egg. 
1 white of egg. 

1 teaspoonful melted butter. 

Milk enough to fill a deep pie-plate half full. 
Line the pie-pan with pastry. Mix the other ingredients and 
put in, filling up last of all with the milk. It is possible to use 
water in place of the milk. This is a one-crust pie. Use the 
white of the egg for a frosting. 
Vinegar Pie (One Crust).— 
1^ cups good vinegar. 

2 cups sugar. 
1 cup water. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 
Flavor with lemon extract. 



212 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Put in a stewpan on the stove. While this is heating take 5 
yolks of eggs beaten with 1 cup water and 2 heaping tablespoonfuls 
flour. When the vinegar conies to a boil put in the eggs and flour, 
stirring until well cooked. Have four pie-tins lined with pastry, 
fill with the mixture and bake. Beat the whites of the eggs to a 
stiff froth with 4 tablespoonfuls white sugar. When the pies are 
done spread this over them and return to the oven a few minutes. 
These pies can be baked in two crusts by using four eggs, whites 
and yolks both, and covering with an upper crust. The rule will 
make four pies. 

Tine^ar Pie (Two Crusts). — Put the under crust in the pan. 
Spread upon this 1 cup sugar, 1 large tablespoonf ul flour, some orange 
peel shredded fine, ^ a cup of vinegar, ^ a cup boiling water. 
Cover with an upper crust punctured to let the steam escape. 
Secure it closely around the edges that the filling may not boil 
out. Let the top bake first. Twenty minutes should be enough. 
One teaspoonful butter may be added. 

Rhubarb Pie. — Peel the stalk and cut in small bits. Line 
deep plates with crust. Put in the rhubarb with a thick layer of 
sugar to each layer of the fruit. A little lemon extract, peel, or juice 
improves it. Dredgo with the flour, dot over with bits of butter and 
cover with a crust, having openings for the escape of steam. Bake 
one hour in a slow oven. Some cooks stew the rhubarb before 
making into pies, but this is by no means the better way. 

Meringue Pie-plant Pie.— 

1 cupful stewed pie-plant. 

1 teaspoonful cornstarch or flour. 

1 cupful sugar. 

1 yolk of egg. 

^ teaspoonful butter. 
Small pinch salt. 
Flavor with lemon. 
Mix thoroughly and bake in one crust. Beat the white of the 
egg to a froth with one tablespoonful sugar and spread over the 
pie when done. Brown lightly in the oven. Equal to lemon pie. 
Rhubarb and Raisin Pie.— 

2 cups chopped pie-plaut. 



PASTRY. 213 

1 cup chopped raisins. 

1 cup sugar. 

|- teacup water. 
Dredge with flour, bake slowly, using two crusts. 
Mince Pies.— 

4 pounds lean, cold-boiled meat chopped fine. 
(Beef tongue, beef heart, beef shank.) 

9 pounds chopped apples. 

3 teaspoonfuls ground cloves. 
1^ pounds chopped suet. 

10 teaspoonfuls ground cinnamon. 
3 pounds raisins. 

5 teaspoonfuls ground mace. 

2 pounds currants. 

1 teaspoonful black pepper. 
^ pound sliced citron. 

3 tablespoonfuls salt. 

5 pounds brown sugar. 

IJ quarts cider. 

1 quart molasses mixed with ^ quart vinegar. 

Juice and grated yellow rind of 2 lemons. 
Mix well, heat thoroughly through, and when cool pack in 
stone jars. Cover those not intended for immediate use with 
molasses to exclude the air. In this way the mince-meat will 
keep a long time. When wished for pies thin to the desired con- 
sistency with boiled cider. If the apples are not tart add a little 
lemon juice. 

In place of cider or any liquors (such as brandy or sherry) 
open a can of fruit. Cherries are very nice. Berries of any kind 
may be substituted and turned into the mince-meat when ready 
to use for making into pies. In this way one may lessen the 
amount of raisins, elc, to be used, and can omit citron altogether. 
Spices may be altered to suit the taste. The canned fruit not 
only furnishes the requisite thinning, but at the same time imparts 
a delicious flavor. In fact a skillful cook can at all times alter the 
preparation of mince-meat to suit the materials on hand. If the 
mince-meat is to be kept on hand a long time prepare it all with 



214 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

the exception of the apples. Pack in jars. When wanted take 
some of the mince-meat and add to it an equal weight of chopped 
apples. 

Mince Pies (Extra).— 

1 pound finely chopped apples. 

1 grated nutmeg. 

1 pound cold roast beef chopped. 

^ ounce ginger. 

1 pound Zante currants. 

^ ounce cloves. 

i pound raisins stoned and chopped. 

^ ounce allspice. 

1 pound beef suet chopped. 

1 tablespoonful salt. 

f pound of mixed citron and candied orange. 

1 grated rind and juice of 3 lemons. 

1 pound fine sugar. 

1 pint boiled cider. 
Stir ten minutes. Put in a deep jar. Keep several days be- 
fore using and take the required quantity from the bottom of the 
jar. Thin a little more if necessary. 

Mince Pies — A Small Quantity. — One way to dispose of 
remnants of cold roast or boiled meat is to make two or three 
mince-pies. Even in summer these will not come amiss. 

1 large cupful of chopped meat. 
^ cupful of fat meat, chopped. 

2 cupfuls of chopped apples. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 

^ tablespoonful of ground cinnamon. 



tablespoonful of ground allspice 



1 cupful of sugar. 
^ cupful of raisins. 
^ cupful of currants. 

1 cupful of cider vinegar and water mixed. 
Mock Mince Pie.— 

1 cupful of raisins, chopped. 
5 large crackers, rolled fine. 



PASTRY. 215 

2^ cupfuls ot l)oiling water. 

1 cupful oi molasses. 

2A- cupfuls of brown sugar. 

^ cupful of vinegar. 

1 teaspot)uful of cloves. 

1 teaspoon ful of cinnamon. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

^ tablespoonful of salt. 

^ nutmeg, grated. 
This makes 4 pies. Zante currants may take the place of 
raisins. 

Plimpkin Pie.— Cut the pumpkin in thin slices, peel and cut 
up; steam until done or boil until tender in as little water as pos- 
sible. Mash the pumpkin to a pulp and cook dry as possible with- 
out scorching; rub through a colander or coarse sieve. 

To each pint of the sifted pumpkin add 1 quart of milk and 
3 well beaten eggs. Sweeten to taste with brown sugar ; flavor 
with 1 teaspoonful each of cinuamon and ginger; nutmeg maybe 
added, and 1 spoonful of salt. If the milk is not rich add a small 
teaspoonful of butter to this quantity. A little molasses added 
makes the pies a richer color. 
Pumpkin Pie II. — 1 egg. 

1 quart of pumpkin. 

2 tablespoonfuls of corn-starch. 
1 quart of milk. 

Sweeten and flavor as before. This will be found very good. 
Bake in round or square pie-tins in 1 crust. Put in a quick oven 
and as soon as they puff up remove. Slip out of the pans on to 
thick folded paper or a clean cloth. 

The rim of pumpkra pies is very apt to scorch before the fill- 
ing is baked sufiiciently. On this account it is a good plan to heat 
the prepared pumpkin scalding hot before turning into the pie- 
tins. Bake at once that the under-crust iray not grow clammy. 

Pumpkin Pie without Eggs. — Stew and sift in the ordinary 
manner. Add sufficient milk to make it about ^ thicker than for com- 
mon pumpkin pie. Sweeten with equal quantities of sugar and 
molasses. The milk being tned boiling hot upon the pumpkin 



2l6 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

causes it to swell in baking so that it is light and nice as though 
eggs had been used. This will be found palatable and quite 
hygienic without spices, but may be flavored as other pumpkin 
pies and can hardly be told from them. Make the pumpkin about 
the consistency of common cake batter for this pie. 

Squash Pie. — Steam a Hubbard squash, when it is done rub 
through a colander. To every quart of sifted squash add: 

5 well- beaten eggs. 

2 quarts of milk. 

1 tablespoonful of cinnamon. 

1 tablespoonful of ginger. 

Sweeten to the taste — 1 cupful of sugar. 

Salt slightly. Bake like pumpkin. 
Raisin Pie.— 

Grated yellow rind of 1 lemon. 

Kemainder of lemon, chopped. 

1 cupful of stoned raisins. 

Butter, size of walnut. 

i cupful of molasses. 

1 cupful of brown sugar. 

2 cupfuls of water. 

Boil five minutes and add 5 table spoonfuls of flour and ^ 
teaspoonful of salt. Use two crusts. This will make two pies, 
medium-sized. A beaten egg can be stirred in and 3 tablespoon- 
fuls of flour omitted. 

Prune Pie. — Pit the prunes, stew soft, beat smooth, sweeten 
thoroughly and inclose in two crusts ; bake. This may also be 
made without an upper crust and the beaten white of an egg 
spread over the top when done. 
Cream Pie.— 

1 pint of cream. 
1 egg, or the white of an egg. 
1 tablespoonful of corn -starch. 
^ cupful of sugar. 
Flavor with vanilla or lemon ; bake in one crust. Another 
white of an egg may be whipped sfiT w'.ia a spoonful of sugar and 
used for frosting if desired bjal llie egg and corn-starch to- 



PASTRY. 217 

gether and stir into the cream ; add sugar and flavoring. This will 
make one pie. 

Mock Cream Pie.— 

1 pint of milk. 

2 yolks of eggs and 

1 white of egg. 

|- cupful of sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of corn-starch or flour. 

Flavor with ^ teaspoonful of vanilla or lemon extract. 
1 teaspoonful of butter. 
Break the eggs into a dish, add sugar and corn-starch; beat 
together. Have the milk boiling and stir into the mixture, con- 
tinuing to stir until it thickens. Be careful not to scorch it. Bake 
with one crust. 

Use the reserved white of an egg to make a frosting. Sweeten; 
brown. 

Ornamental Cream Pie. — Use the same filling as for Mock 
Cream Pie, putting a layer of red currant or other bright colored 
jelly, first in the crust, then the cream filling, and afterward the 
meringue or frosting. This pie when cut is decidedly ornamental 
in appearance as well as delicious in flavor. 

Cream Berry Tart. — Line a dish with paste and fill with 
fresh raspberries, strawberries or blackberries made very sweet 
with powdered sugar. Cover with rather a thick paste, but do not 
pinch down the edges. When done, lift up the top crust and pour 
over the fruit the following cream; both should be cool. 
1 small cup of milk, heated to boiling. 
Whites of 2 eggs, beaten light and stirred into the 

boiling milk. 
1 tablespoonful of white sugar. 
^ teaspoonful of cornstarch, wet in cold milk. 
Boil together. Let cool before pouring over the tart. Re- 
place the top crust and sprinkle sugar over before serving. 

Strawberry Meringue.— Muke either pufi paste or rich pie 
crust, roll ^ of an inch thick and cut in a round the size of a large 
pie-plate. Bake. When t'onc, cover it thickly with strawberries and 
powdered sugar. Have ready the whites of 2 eggs whipped stiff 



2l8 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

and sweetened with 2 tablespoonfuls of white sugar. Spread over 
the berries, return to the oven until dehcately browned. Serve 
cool for tea or dessert. 
Chess Pie.— 

4 yolks of eggs. 

1 cupful of sweet cream. 

2 whites of eggs. 
^ cupful of butter. 
1^ cupfuls of sugar. 

J tablespoonful of cornstarch. 

If cream cannot be obtained use ^ cupful of milk, 1 more egg 
and f instead of ^ cupful of butter. Stir the butter and sugar to- 
gether, add the other ingredients, stirring well. Bake with one 
crust like a custard pie. Make a frosting of the 2 reserved whites 
of eggs. Sweeten, flavor with nutmeg. 

Custard Pie, Plain. — Boil a quart of milk with i dozen 
peach leaves or the rind of a lemon. Turn it off and let cool. Stir 
in 4 beaten eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar, a pinch of salt. This 
will make two pies. Bake in deep pie dishes with one crust. One 
teaspoonful of cornstarch or 1 tablespoonful of flour rubbed smooth 
with cold milk and boiled with the milk, after the flavoring leaves 
are removed, will take the place of 1 egg. There should be a heavy 
rim to all one-crust pies. Vanilla makes a pleasant flavor. If no 
flour is used and peach leaves omitted, the milk need not be 
boiled. 

Custard Meringue Pie. — Make a nice custard-filling as above, 
using the yolks only, and reserving the whites to form the mer- 
ingue or frosting. Bake the pie. Beat the whites, add 1 table- 
spoonful of white sugar, spread over the top and return to the 
oven to brown lightly. 

Custard Peach Pie. — Line a pie-tin with a rich paste, make 
a custard using the yolks of 3 eggs, 1^ pints of rich milk, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. Place in the tin a layer of canned, stewed or 
fresh peaches well sugared. Bake in a well-heated oven. Frost 
when done. Other fruit may be used. 

Labor-saving Custard Pie. — 

1 quart of milk. 4 eggs. 



PASTRY. 219 

4 tablespoon fuls of floiir. 

4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Salt slightly, flavor with nutmeg or other spice. Beat the 
eggs thoroughly, rub the flour smooth in a little of the milk, and 
mix all together. The flour will settle on the bottom and sides of 
the pan forming a complete crust. Bake in a deep, square bread- 
pan one hour. 

Cocoanut Pie. — 1 cup of grated cocoanut, if dessicated soak 
over night in milk, if fresh, this will be unnecessary. Put this in 
a large coffee cup and fill up with milk. When ready to bake, take 
2 teaspoonf uls of flour , mix smooth with 1 cupful of milk, place 
on the stove and stir until it thickens. To prevent scorching it is 
best to put the dish in a kettle of boiling water. While warm, add 
1 tablespoonful of butter. When cold, put in 

2 yolks of eggs. 

A pinch of salt. 

i cupful of sugar. 

Cocoanut. 
Beat all together. Fill the crust. When done, beat the two 
whites with 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, spread over the top and 
brown lightly in the oven. This will make one pie. The whites 
of the eggs jnay be used instead of the yolks. If this is done, 
sprinkle powdered sugar thickly over the top before serving. The 
yolks of the eggs may be utilized by making lemon pie without a 
meringue, or gold cake, ginger bread or salad dressing. 
Washington Pie.— 

1 cupful of sugar. 

1^ cuj)ful3 of flour. 

^ cupful of butter. 

1 egg- 

^ cupful of sweet milk. 

1 teaspoonful of cream-tartar. 

1 teaspoonful of lemon extract. 

^ teaspoonful of soda. 
Bake on three round tins. When done, put a layer of nice 
apple sauce between and on top of the cakes. Jelly or jam may 
be substituted and the pie served with a sauce. 



220 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Washington Cream Pie. — Made a cake as for Washington 
pie, bake in two or three layers and spread the cream used for 
making Mock-cream Pie. Delicious. Seijve cold. 

Ripe Tomato Pie. — Line a pie-plate with a nice crust. Peel 
and slice sufficient tomatoes, (half ripe ones are really better), to 
fill the pie. Sprinkle over the top ^ cupful of sugar, 1 teaspoonful 
of flour, butter, the size of a walnut, cut this in bits, and flavor 
with lemon. Cover with an upper crust. 

Green Tomato Pie. — Take 12 common-sized tomatoes. 
Wipe, peel and parboil until turning soft. Turn off the water and 
place in the pie-dish lined with crust. Add — 
4 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 
Butter size of a walnut. 
1 teaspoonful flour, 
f cupful of sugar. 

^ teaspoonful salt. Lemon or ginger. 
Cover with a top crust well pressed down to the lower edge to 
prevent the juice escaping. If ripe tomatoes are used omit the 
parboiling. 

Zante Currant Pie. — Clean and stew in water. When done 
sweeten, dredge in flour enough to thicken the juice. Bake with 
two crusts or take either of the recipes given for Eaisin Pie and 
prepare the currants in the same manner. 

Sweet Potato Pie. — Boil the potatoes very soft. Peel, mash 
and put through a colander. Have a pie-dish lined with paste. To 
1 cupful of the potatoes add 

1 quart sweet milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 
2 or 3 beaten eggs. 

f cupful sugar. 

Nutmeg or cinnamon to flavor. 
Beat together the butter and sugar. Add the potatoes, a little 
at a time, then the eggs and flavoring. Fill the paste -lined tins 
and bake. This will make two large, or three small pies. 

Carrot Pie. — Make same as Sweet Potato Pie. This is 
healthful and nourishing even for dyspeptics if the Hygienic Cream 
Pie-crust is used. 



PASTRY. 221 

Molasses Pie. — Line a tin with plain paste. Put ^ teacup 
molasses, then a layer of crust, thin as a wafer, then more molasses 
and again a thin crust. Cover with molasses, put on the top crust. 
Bake. Very nice way to use left-over paste. 

Huckleberry or Elderberry Pies. — Line a pie tin with 
good paste. Fill with the berries. Add f cup sugar, 2 table- 
spoonfuls vinegar and a dusting of flour. Put on an upper crust 
and bake. Lemon juice may be used instead of vinegar and will 
be found an improvement. Canned berries may be used in the 
same way. Currants mixed with either of the berries gives a 
good tart. Omit the vinegar in this case. 

Peach Pie. — Slice and fill the pie, seasoning with sugar, a 
dusting of flour and a little water. If the peaches are not mellow 
stew them before making into a pie. Bake with two crusts or 
make as a Tart Pie. 

Dried Peach Pie. — The peaches should be soaked in water 
over night, stewed soft and sweetened before making into pies. 
Bake with two crusts. 

Currant and Gooseberry Pies. — Currants and gooseberries 
are the best for pies when half green, though they will answer 
whtn ripe. Currants mixed with ripe raspberries make good pies. 
Green currants and gooseberries will be found sweeter for pies if 
the sugar is scalded in before using. Stew them on a moderate 
fire with 1 teacup of water to 2 quarts of the fruit. When they 
begin to break add sugar in the proportion of | cups of sugar to 
a pint of the fruit. Let scald a few minutes. Dredge the pies 
with flour, cover with an upper crust. When used without stew- 
ing put to each layer of fruit a thick layer of sugar. Use a little 
flour and 2 tablespoonfuls of water to each pie. Green currant 
pies are good sweetened with molasses and sugar mixed. 

Grape Pie. — Grapes make the best pies when green. If not 
very small they should be stewed and strained to remove the seeds. 
Sweeten to the taste when stewed. Dredge with flour. If made 
into a pie without stewing put a thick layer of sugar to each layer 
of fruit and add a tablespoonful of water and dust with flour. 
Bake with two crusts. All fruit pies should have a slit in the 
(jrust for the escape of steana. 



222 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Raspberry or Blackberry Pies.— These pies should be 
baked in deep tins lined with paste. Sweeten thoroughly, dredge 
with flour and cover with an upper crust. Raspberries and cur- 
rants, half and half, make a nice pie. 

Cherry Pie. — Pit the cherries and proceed as for berry pies. 

Sweet Marlborough Pie. — 

1 pint of the grated pulp of sweet apples. 

1 pint sweet milk. 

2 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful melted butter. 

Sweeten if necessary. Beat the eggs to a froth. Stir in the 
sugar, then the other ingredients. This makes two pies. Bake in 
deep plates without an upper crust. Flavor with grated lemon peel 
or the extract. 

Banana Pie.— Fill a pie shell, already baked, with sliced 
bananas and powdered sugar. Put in the oven a few minutes until 
the fruit softens. Very nice so, but far better to cover the top 
with whipped cream and serve at once. Flavor with lemon juice. 

Jelly Pie.— 

3 eggs beaten. 

2 table spoonfuls sugar. 
1 teacupful cream. 

6 tablespoonfuls jelly. 

1 tablespoonful melted butter. 

Flavor with lemon or nutmeg. 
Light colored jelly makes the most attractive pie. Very tart 
jelly may require more sugar. Bake in an under-crust. This 
makes two pies. 

Peach or Apple Cobbler. — Make a very nice cream or soda 
biscuit dough. Fill a pudding dish ^ full of ripe apples or peaches 
pared and quartered. Sprinkle with sugar. Add some of the 
dough in small pieces. Fill to within ^ of the top with quartered 
fruit. Sugar, 1 teaspoonful butter. Cover with a thick crust. 
Make several slits in the top. Pour in a cup of water. Bake one 
hour. Serve hot with cream and sugar, or milk and sugar. 

Fried Pies. — Use the same dough as for a cobbler. Eoll out 
about the size of a plate. Put a spoonful of dried apple or peacb 



PASTRY. 223 

sauce (other kinds will answer) on one side of the paste, turn the 
other over. Pinch the edges together smoothly and fry in hot lard 
like doughnuts. 

Cranberry Tart Pie.— 

1 quart cranberries. 

1 pint of water. 

1 pound, or pint of sugar. 

Stew gently until soft. Mash. When cool put in a pie dish. 
Put a strip of paste (pufif paste is very suitable) around the edge of 
the dish. Cover over with a crust, pressing it down around the 
edge. Or line a pie-plate with the paste and fill with the stewed 
fruit. Lay strips of the pie-crust across the top and bake. This 
amount will make two pies. Cranberries can be baked with two 
crusts if wished. 

Strawberry Tart Pie. — Arrange the berries in layers in a 
pie dish lined with paste. Fill very full as strawberries shrink 
very much in cooking. Sweeten well with white sugar. Cover 
with crossbars of pastry and bake. 

[Almost any fruit pie can be made in tart form]. 

TARO^S AND GHRELSB. GAKRS. 

Tart Shells. — These are a most convenient resource for the 
housekeeper in cate of unexpected guests, as well as a pretty and 
ornamental dish for the table. The ends of paste left from pies 
may often he turned to good account in this manner. Line small 
tins or patty-pans with paste, pricking with a fork to prevent blis- 
tering. Bake and set away. Fill them as needed with jelly or 
preserved fruit. These shells may be glazed by brushing over with 
the yolk of an egg before putting in the oven. (See page 204). 

Tart and Puff Paste. — 

1 cupful butter. 
1 table spoonful white sugar. 
1 white of egg. 

3 tablespoonfuls water, flour to roll out. 
Jelly Tarts. — Roll a rich crust thin. Cut in any desired 
shape. Bake half the quantity plain, the other half with round 



224 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

©r square openings. "When used place the jelly on plain half and 
gently press the open ones down to meet the lower. The jelly will 
fill the openings and look nice. 

ChantUly J'arts. — Cut puff paste with a biscuit cutter, ordi- 
jiary size; with a smaller cutter remove the center. Use these as 
rings for the tarts. Koll together the dough and cut again with 
ihe larger cutter. Place the rings upon these. Use the tart glaze 
iov ornamenting. Bake in a quick oven and fill with strawberry 
preserves. Serve with whipped cream. Tart glaze (see page 204'i 

Lemon Tarts, or Fanchonettes. — 
1 cupful sugar. 

1 cupful boiling water. 
3 egg yolks. 

Butter size of egg. 

2 lemons, juice and grated rind. 

1 tablespoonful corn-starch. 

Lei th<3 water boil in a saucepan, dissolve the corn-starch in a 
little cold water and pour into the water. Stir till smooth and 
thick, add the sugar, butter and lemon. Boil for a minute, stir- 
ring in the beaten yolks, and set aside to cool. Line small patty- 
pans with nice pie-crust. Fill half full of the mixture and bake 
twenty minutes. Slip out of the pans and serve on a napkin, 
either cold or hot. 

Orange Tarts.— 

2 large oranges, juice of both, grated yellow rind of 

one. 
f cupful sugar, |- only if the oranges are very sweet. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 
^ lemon, juice only. 
1 tablespoonful corn- starch. 
Beat all together well and bake in tart shells without cover. 
Apple Tarts. — Line patty-pans with nice crust. Put in each, 
chopped ajjple and a little white sugar; bake iu a moderate oven 
and let cool. Whip a little cream very stiff, sweeten slightly and 
flavor with a drop or two of lemon or vanilla. Just before serving, 
cover the apple in each tart with the whipped cream. A drop of 
Qurrant jelly on the top of each one adds to the effect. 



PASTRY. 225 

Chocolate Tarts.— 

1 quart milk. 

1 cupful sugar. 

14 tablespoonfuls bread-crumbSo 

6 eggs. 

12 tablespoonfuls grated chocolate. 

1 table spoonful vanilla extract. 
Beat the sugar and eggs light. Scald the milk and pour hot 
over the bread and chocolate. Add the eggs and sugar. Put into 
tait shells and bake one-half hour in a moderate oven. When 
done sprinkle white sugar over the top. 

Cream Tar Is. — Use very nice pastry for the tart shells or 
puffs. Serve perfectly cold with whipped cream. Heap them up 
well with the cream and set in a cool place. 
Cream Puffs.— 

1 cupful of hot water. 

^ cupful butter. 
Boil together and while boiling stir in 1 cup of sifted flour dry. 
Take from the stove and stir to a thin paste, and after this cools 
stir in 3 eggs (unbeaten). Stir it five minutes. Drop in table- 
spoonfuls on a buttered tin and bake in a quick oven twenty-five 
minutes, opening the oven door no oftener than is absolutely neces- 
sary and being careful that they do not touch each other in the 
pan. This amount will make twelve puffs. 
Cream for Abovk: 

1 cupful of milk. 

1 cupful sugar. 

1 egg. 

3 tablespoonfuls flour. 

Vanilla to flavor. 
Stir the flour in a little of the milk. Boil the rest; turn 
this in and stir until the whole thickens. When both this 
and the puffs are cool open the puffs a little way with a sharp 
knife, and fi 1 them with the cream. These never fail to puff. 
This cream may be filled into ether tart shells and be found very nice. 
Almond Cheese ('akes. — Blanch four ounces of sweet al- 
monds. Ktdnco them to a paste with a wine glass of rose water. 



226 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Add 4 tablespoonfuls of white sugar and three eggs well-beaten. 
Mix and beat thoroughly. Bake in tart shells, first garnishing the 
top with almonds cut in thin slips. 

Bread Cheese Cakes.— Slice a five-cent loaf as thin as pos- 
sible. Pour over it a pint of boi'iug cream. Let stand two hours. 
Beat very fine. Add 8 eggs, ^ pound butter, 1 grated nutmeg, ^ 
pound Zante currants, 1 tablespoonful rose water. Beat well to- 
gether and bake in patty-pans lined with nice pastry. 

Rice Cheese Cakes.— These may be made in the same man- 
ner as Bread Cheese Cakes, taking 2 cupfuls of cold boiled rice. 
Proceed as above, adding 1 cupful of white sugar in addition to 
above rule. 

Lemon Cheese Cakes.— 



pound butter, 



I pound sugar, creamed together. 

Grated yellow rind of 2 lemons, the juice of 1. 

4 yolks of eggs and 2 whites beaten separately. 
Stir all together over Rie fire until the sugar is dissolved and 
bake in puffs. Any nice pastry will answer for these. KoU out 
as for Chantilly Tarts. These puff shells are prettier than tart 
shells for any kind of tarts. Either tarts or cheese cakes make a 
dainty dessert. 

Curd Cheese Cakes. — Put 1 tablespoonful liquid cheese ren- 
net in 1 quart of fresh milk. Set this near the stove until the curd 
rises. Pour off the whey and mix with the curd ^ cupful butter, f 
cupful white sugar, 1 grated nutmeg, the yolks of 2 and the white 
of 1 egg. Beat thoroughly, adding 6 ounces of Zante currants. 
Flavor with 2 tablespoonfuls rose water. Bake in tart or puff 
shells. Sprinkle with white sugar. 

SHOR"r-GAKB.S. 

Strawberry Short-Cake. - 

1 quart of flour. 

8 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

^ cupful of butter. 

Milk or water to mix soft. 



PASTRY. 227 

Divide into two or three equal parts and roll out according to 
the size of baking tin. Place each layer in the tin ; spread melted 
butter between them only, putting none on the last layer. When 
baked the layers will separate easily. 

Short-cake may be made after any other rule, with sour milk, 
soda, etc., but baking in layers will be found an improvement. 
Spread on each layer strawberries and sugar, lay on the upper- 
crust and pour over all any juice that may be left. This will be 
improved by serving with sweetened cream. Berries of any kind 
— cherries, sliced peaches or stewed apples may be served in the 
same manner. Cut through all the layers in serving. Some 
cooks roll the dough thin and bake in layer cake-tins. If not very 
thick several must be used. Unless there i^ an extra amount of 
shortening in the cake each layer must be buttered before covering 
with the berries. 

Cream Raspberry Short-Cake. — 
1 pint of rich sour cream. 
1 teaypoonful of soda. 
Pinch of salt. 
Flour to make a soft dough. 

EoU to the thickness of an inch and a half; bake, separate 
and butter; or, better still, make four layers, spreading each one 
with butter. Bake in a deep tin, layer upon layer. . Sweeten 
the berries well between the crusts, covering each layer of fruit 
with whipped sweet cream. Cover the top with the whipped 
cream and dust with powdered sugar. 

Peach Short-Cake. — Make a plain baking-powder crust; 
bake in two tins ; butter each side well and alternate the layers of 
crust with sliced and sugared peaches. Cover the top crust with 
a thick dashing of powdered sugar. Serve Avith sweetened cream. 

Cranberry Short-Cake.— This can be made in the same 
manner, having the fruit thoroughly stewed and sweetened. 
Spread between the layers of crust thickly. Reserve the extra 
juice to serve as sauce. 

Apple Short-Cake. — Mix a stiff batter as for biscuit. Put 
in a deep pie-tin with a spoon ; bake separate, butter well and fill with 
a thick layer of very nice tart apple -sauce. Sprinkle with sugar, 



228 THREE MEALS A DAV. 

replace the top, dusting over with sugar, and serve plain, with 
sweetened cream or milk, Otlier fruit may be served in the same 
way. Powdered sugar is best. 
Sweet Short-Cake.— 

1 cupful of powdered sugar. 
1 tablespoonful of butter. 
3 eggs. 

1 cupful of flour, sifted with 1 teaspoonful of baking- 
powder. 
3 tablespoonfuls of cream. 
Bake in jelly-cake tins. When done lay one upon the other, 
sprinkling each with powdered sagar. Cut through the layers as 
for a pie; serve in saucers with sweetened cream poured over it. 

Lemon Short-Cake. — Make a rich short-cake. Bake in 
jelly-cake tins; let cool and spread with the lemon filling for lemon 
layer cake. Dust sugar over the top and serve. 

Jelly Short-Cake. — Can be made in the same way, substi- 
tuting jelly for lemon-butter. 
Orange Short-Cake.— 
1 quart of flour. 
1 egg, well-beaten, 
i cupful of butter. 
1 tablespoonful of sugar. 
3 teaspooufuls of baking-powder. 
Milk for a soft dough. 
Koll h iuch thick, bake in round tins in a quick oven. 
Filling: — Koll 3 large oranges and 1 lemon; press the juice 
into a bowl. Remove the peel, chop all the pulp fine and add to 
the juice, with 1 cupful of granulated sugar. 

Epicurean Short-Cake.— Prepare a short-cake as for Sweet- 
ened Short-Cake. When cold jnit strawberries and sugar between 
each layer and over the top. Serve with cream and powdered 
sugar. 

DUMPLaINGS. 

Bags for boiling dumplings or puddings, should be made of 
thick cotton cloth. Before using dip in water, wring out and flour 



PASTRY. 229 

inside. When the dumpling or pudding is put in, tie the bag tight., 
leaving plenty of room for the contents to swell. Indian and flour 
puddings require a great deal of space. 

An old plate should be put at the bottom of the kettle to pre- 
vent the bag sticking. 

Dumplings or puddings, when they have been in the water a 
few minutes, should be turned to prevent settling and heaviness. 

Water should be kept of a sufficient depth in the kettle to 
cover the pudding. It should not be allowed to stop boihng for 
an instant. 

Dip the bag in cold water for an instant when done, and the 
dumj)ling or pudding will come out easily. 

Steaming is really an easier and preferable way of cooking 
either puddings or dumplings. Set a plate in the bottom of the 
steamer if a bag is used instead of a pudding dish. Place the 
dumplings or pudding nicely tied up on this, and keen the wate^ 
in the kettle beneath boiling constantly. One economy in this case 
is that vegetables or meat may be cooked in the kettle while the 
pudding is being steamed. Prepare the cloth or bag in the same 
way as for boiling. 

Baking is also resorted to in the preparation of dumplings. 

Dumpling Crust. — 

2 cupfuls sweet milk. 

1 saltspoonful salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls lard or butter. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream -tartar. 
Flour to make a soft dough. 

Water may be used with the addition of 1 or 2 well beaten 
eggs, using the other materials in the same manner. 
Suet Crust.— 

^ pound chopped beef suet. 
^ pound flour. 
1 saltspoonful salt. 
Cold water to make a dough. 
Work it well. Beat with the rolling pin and roll out. Nice 
for any boiled fruit pudding. 



230 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Boiled Apple Dumplings.— Pare tart mellow apples. 
Remove the cores with au apple corer, or a small, sharp knife. 
Fill the openings with sugar. Make a good pie crust. Roll out | 
of an inch thick. Cut in squares just large enough to enclose 1 
apple. Lay the apples on them and bring the corners together. 
Tie each one in a small floured cloth, leaving room to swell. Drop 
in boiling water and let cook one hour. Serve with pudding sauce, 
or butter and sugar. A biscuit crust, either baking powder or soda, 
may be substituted for the pie-crust paste. Molasses is a very nice 
sauce for apple dumplings. 

Baked Apple Dumplings. — Prepare a crust after the 
recipe given for dumpling crust. Roll out, cut in squares and in 
the center of each lay a tart apple pared, cored and quartered, 
bring the corners together closely. Lay in a deep buttered baking 
tin with the joined edges down. Pour a cupful of water around 
them, ^ cupful of sugar and dot the top plentifully with bits of 
butter. Bake in the oven until done. Serve as they are, the 
butter, sugar and water making a nice saiice. A variation may be 
maf^e by working a little butter into raised bread dough, rolling out 
thin and. enclosing an apple, as above, in each dumpling. They 
may be either baked or boiled. 
Lemon Dumplings.— 

i pound grated bread. 

A pound finely chopped suet. 

^ pound sugar. 

1 lemon. 

Squeeze the juice over the sugar and chop the rest 
very fine. 

1 large tart apple grated. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. 
2 well-beaten eggs. 

Mix well together. Divide in eight parts and tie each one in 
a well floured piece of cotton cloth. Put a plate in the bottom of 
the kettle and drop the dumplings into boiling water. Boil thirty 
minutes. Serve with maple syrup. 

Peach Dumpling. — Make a dumpling paste after any of the 
rules given and prepare as for Apple Dumpling, shcing the peaches. 



PASTRY. 231 

Let cook two hours. Serve with hard sauce, plain pudding sauce, 
or butter and sugar. 

Sliced apples, blackberries, cherries, huckleberries or ai;y 
other fruit can be used in the same way. 

Dough Dumplillgs. — Risen bread dough made into balls 
the size of apples and boiled a long time in a kettle of boiling 
water are nice eaten hot with molasses. A little shortening may 
be worked in, but they are good without. 

Light Dumplings. Take a pan of nice light biscuit just 
ready for the oven, and when the potatoes are ready to boil for 
dinner put the biscuit in the steamer over the kettle. Cook one- 
half hour or until the potatoes are done. Serve hot with sweet- 
ened cream seasoned with nutmeg. Crushed strawberries or any 
kind of stewed fruit is nice to serve with them. Tear open with 
a fork. 

Steamed Apple Dumplings.— SHce enough tart api)les to 
fill a deep pudding-dish | full. Put over the stove with enough 
water to cook the apples, and when they begin to boil cover with a 
closely-fitting crust of biscuit dough. Make an opening in the 
center to let the steam escape ; cover closely. Cook one-half 
hour. The dough should be several inches thick when done. Serve 
with a hot sweet pudding-sauce. 

This dumpling may be made in a tin-pail, lining the sides 
with paste also. Small fruit of any kind may be used (without 
stewing). Put the pail in a kettle of boiling water; stand it on an 
inverted saucer to prevent burning. Let the water boil around the 
pail, not over it. 

Dessert Noodles. — Make noodles according to rule. Cut in 
pieces ^ inch wide, throw in boiling salted water and let boil up 
two or three times. Dish, pour some melted butter over, add sugar 
and cinnamon to taste. Serve immediately. 

Rolled Dumpling or Roly-Poly. — Take any of the pasties 
given before. Eoll out ^ inch thick, spread with strawberries, 
blackberries, sliced peaches, pitted cherries or stewed cran])erries. 
Sprinkle with sugar. If tart fruit, such as cranberries, is used 
considerable sugar will be required. Any kind of fruit jam or 
marmalade is very nice spread on in place of the fresh fruit. 



232 THREE MEAI<S A DAY. 

Leave the outside edges uncovered and wet them with cold water. 
Roll the crust up carefully, join the ends &yA lay the pudding 
in a thick white towel or cloth, roll the dumpiiiig up, tie the ends 
and put in a kettle of boiling water. Boil one hour and serve 
with a rich pudding-sauce. A hot sauce is nice. The pudding 
may be steamed instead of boiled. Sliced ta^'t apples may be 
used in this manner. 

Cut in slices from the end when serving. Put a lump of but- 
ter and a large spoonful of sugar on the center of each slice as 
the pudding is served, if of apples. 

Dried apple-sauce, beaten fine and not too juicy, may be pre- 
pared in the same manner, 

FRUIO^ DRSSRRTS, BAKRD OR 
STRAMRD. 

Apple Jonathan.— 

1 pint of sweet milk. 
1 egg, beaten. 

1 small teaspoonful of soda. 
^ teaspoonful of salt. 

2 small teaspoonfuls of cream- tartar. 
Flour to make a batter rather thin. 

Have 4 or 5 large apples peeled and chopped; stir and 
pour in a well-buttered pudding-dish and steam or bake. Sour 
milk>iind soda may be used instead of sweet for the batter. Serve 
warm with butter and sugar, sweetened cream or pudding-sauce. 

Bii'ds' Nests.— 

1 quart sweet milk. 

3 well-beaten eggs. 

1 pint of bread crumbs, soaked iia the milk. 
|- cupful of sugar. 
1 tablespoonful of butter. 
1 teaspoonful of baking-powder. 
Pare 6 or 8 nice tart apples, dig out the cores, fill the cavities 
with sugar and sprinkle sugar over the top. 

Put the apples in a buttered pudding-dish a^d pour the batter 



PASTRY. 233 

over all. Bake or steam one hour. Serve with preferred 
pudding sauce. 

This recipe may be altered by substituting for the bread- 
crumbs flour enough for a batter about like muffins; 1 egg may be 
omitted in this case, otherwise follow the rule. If desired the 
apples may be sliced and sugar sprinkled over them. If baked, 
half a cup of water should be poured over the apples before the 
batter is added. 

If more convenient a sour milk and soda batter may be sub- 
stituted. Graham flour is preferred by many to wheat, as more 
healthful, 

BrOAVn Betty. — Put in a pudding-dish 2 pared and sliced 
tart apples, a little salt and nutmeg, some sugar and dot with bits 
of butter, then a layer of fine bread-crumbs. Kepeat these layers 
until the dish is full — apples for the top. Butter and sugar to suit 
the taste. Lastly, ^ cupful of hot water; cover closely and bake 
one hour. 

This is good either hot or cold. Both bread and apples become 
somewhat jellied when the pudding is done. Can be served with- 
out sauce. 

Peach Paudowdy. — Fill a 2-quart basin i- full of canned 
peaches or fresh fruit sliced, pour over them a batter made like that 
for Apple Jonathan, with the addition of 1 tablespoonful of short- 
ening. Pour over the peaches. Serve with pudding- sauce after 
baking until the crust is done. 

Dried peaches may be stewed and served in the same manner. 
Serve with cream and sugar. 

Steamed Fruit PitBfs. — 

1 pint flour. 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Sweet milk to make a batter that will drop from the spoon. 5 
cups buttered ; put in each 1 spoonful of batter, then some fresh 
fruit, preserves or jam; then more dough, leaving room to rise. 
Steam twenty-five minutes. Serve with sweetened cream or sauce. 



* 




CAKE making is an easier and simpler matter when every- 
thing is prepared before hand. Cream-tartar or baking 
powder should be measured and sifted with the exact quan- 
tity of flour; butter an A spices measured. Eaisins seeded, citron 
sliced fine, etc. It is a very good plan to pick over raisins by the 
pound, when first brought into the house, while a large quantity 
of Zante currants can be washed and dried almost as easily as the 

1 cupful required. This method saves a vast amount of time. 

Ceeam-tartar and soda should always be rubbed smooth with 
a clean, dry knife, before measuring out the required quantity. 
Some notable housekeepers measure and sift a quantity of flour, 
cream-tartar and soda, or baking powder together and put aside in 
a jar or tin for use. This is a great convenience, but still better is 
the 

Self-rising or Prepared Flour. This can be purchased at all 
large groceries in quantities to suit purchasers. This is not only 
convenient, but a saving, as regards baking-powder, etc. It will 
not answer where sour milk or yeast is to be used. 

Sweet Milk and baking-powder, or cream-tartar, go together," 
sour milk and soda. 
• Measuring. — To 1 quart of flour use 1 teaspoonful of soda and 

2 teaspoonfuls of cream-tartar; or to 1 quart of flour 2^ teaspoon - 
fuls of baking-powder. 

One cup of flour means a level cupful of unsifted flour. 

A Tester should generally be baked before the cake is put in 
the oven. A teaspoonful or so of the batter put in a patty-pan or 
on a greased paper. If too solid add a few teaspoonfuls of milk, 
if too soft it will fall in the middle. Add a tablespoonful or a httle 
over of flour. 

(234) 



CAKE. 235 

Cake to be good must be made of nice materials. Butter and 
eggs should be fresli. Cooking butter should never be used. 
Sometimes, however, perfectly fresh eggs that will not make frost- 
ing, will beat up nicely in a cake batter. 

Break the eggs in a dish separately that by mistake a poor 
one may not spoil tlie whole lot. 

Yolks of eggs, when not used in the cake, may be utilized in 
various ways. 

Eggs for frosting should be dropped in cold water one hour 
before using. A pinch of salt added to them hastens their frothing. 

Eggs are beaten separately for almost all cakes, i. e., yolks and 
whites are beaten in separate dishes. This is always an improve- 
ment, and should be done unless the recipe directs otherwise. Two 
exceptions there are to this rule, custards and gingerbread. 

Sugar is to be used as follows. Powdered or pulverized sugar 
for Delicate Cake, Angel's Food, White Sponge Cake, etc. Coffee 
sugar for layer cakes (except the most delicate which require 
powdered), White Fruit Cake, Pound Cake and other rich cakes. 
Coffee Cake, Fruit Cake, and other dark cakes require brown sugar. 
Granulated should never be used if it is possible to avoid it, as it 
does not dissolve well, and either goes to the bottom or rises to the 
top. 

A CAKE-PAN with a tube bakes a large loaf more uniformly. 

Lard is better to grease cake pans, for the salt in butter causes 
the cake to stick. After rubbing the pans with lard, sprinkle with 
flour, shaking off the surplus. 

Cake tins should be warmed gently before putting in the batter. 

Cake materials should be gotten together in cold weather 
some time before they are needed, and kept in a warm place that 
they may mix more easily. 

Eggs should be beaten in an earthen dish. 

Butter and sugar should always be creamed in an earthen or 
stone dish with a silver or wooden spoon. Tin or iron prevents 
their perfect whiteness. 

Cake batter should be beaten with a wooden spoon. A very 
large quantity is better beaten with the hand, especially in the 
winter. 



236 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Cake should be tried with a clean broom splint; if nothing 
adheres the cake is done. 

Butter that is too salt should be washed in cold water, 2 or 3 
times before using it in nice cake. 

Oven doors must be kept closed ten or fifteen minutes after a 
cake is put in to bake. Open then very carefully just a crack. 
"When necessary to turn exercise great care that the cake may not 
fall. 

Shake and jar a tin with the cake batter in before putting in 
the oven. This expels the air bubbles, and renders it less liable 
to fall. 

Wine, where given in any recipe, (it is not so given in this 
volume,) may have a wine glass of ruse-water, the juice of a lemon, 
an extra yolk of an egg, or a few more spices substituted. 

Cake tins are very nice lined with thoroughly greased paper, 
white or light manilia; butter the tin itself before putting in the 
paper. For a large fruit cake, 2 or 8 may be used, buttering each 
one, and the last one very thoroughly. This is very useful to pre- 
vent the cake burning as well as sticking. 

A half-pint cup should be used in all these measurements 
Occasionally some brands of flour require more than others. 

Test the heat by putting in the oven a little flour ; if it browns 
too quickly let the oven cool slightly. 

Always start up the fire when commencing to make the cake 
that it may not have to stand when in the tin; if obliged to wait, 
leave the batter in the dish and beat constantly; beat not stir; 
beating drives out the air bubbles. 

A TIDY table saves much work. Put everything back in its 
place as soon as used. Use the same dish as often as possible for 
all materials that will not injure color or flavor. For instance, 
the same cup that measures the sugar and flour may be used for the 
butter and then the milk if care is taken, borne cooks measure 
all their dry materials and put them into little paper sacks. This 
saves many steps and much washing of dishes. 

Nutmegs, if good, when pricked with a pin will show oil in- 
stantlv 



CAKE. 237 

FRUITS FOR GAKE.S. 

Eaisins should be stemmed. For stoning easily, pour l>oil- 
ing water over the raisins and drain off. This loosens them aud 
the seeds come out with case. If water is used dry them thor- 
oughly before using. Currants should be thorouglily washed in 
several waters, or until the water is clear, and rubbed dry on a 
coarse clean towel. 

Raisins for Cake may be boiled one-half hour in a little 
water, dried in the oven, dredged with flour, and stirred in as 
usual. This will prevent their being tough and tearing the cake 
in cutting. 

Almonds, to Blanch. — Turn boiling water over them. Let 
remain a few minutes, then drain and plunge into cold water. 
The skins will then come off easily. If not, repeat the operation. 
Rub the skins off with a dry cloth. Put on a paper in an open 
oven to dry. Rub to a paste in a mortar with a little rose-water to 
prevent oiling; a little loaf sugar, 1 lump to 3 or 4 almonds may 
be used for the same purpose. 

Another way is to roll the almonds, first chopping them fine 
with a rolling-pin, sprinkling sugar with them to avoid oiling. 

Cake Mixino and Baking. — Beat butter and sugar to a froth, 
unless the recipe otherwise directs ; to this add the well-beaten 
yolks of the eggs, if yolks are used. Beat the whites until they 
will adhere to the dish turned bottom up, and add flour, whites of 
eggs and milk (if the recipe calls for it) alternately. Sift the flour 
and baking powder or cream-tartar and soda with the flour first. 
Stir until smooth, in the same direction always. Have the oven 
hot, not burning, and put the cake in. Read all the other hints 
given in this division also. Close doors and windows that cause a 
draft upon the stove. 

If the cake is very rich it will need a more moderate oven, 
especially if it is a molasses cake, as any cake with molasses in it 
browns speedily. At the first sign of browning too quickly, put a 
brown paper over the top. This will be better if pinned in shape 
to fit the tin, as there is no danger of it touching the cake if made 
into this cap form. If baking too fast set a pan of water on the 



238 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

grate or remove one of the back stove lids for a few minutes. If 
in danger of burning on the under side, set the upper grate under 
the tin to raise it from the bottom of the oven. 

Let the loaf of cake stand in the pan a few minutes after re- 
moving from the oven. Do not put cakes away in the cake- box 
until thoroughly cold. A stone jar is very nice for keeping cake 
or cookies. 

Portable Lemonade. — Lemons that will not keep may have 
the juice expressed and thickened with sugar. Set in a cool place 
and it will keep a long time. Use for lemon pies, lemonade or 
mixed with eggs for lemon jelly cake. Use the peel for Dry 
Flavoring. 

Lemons may be kept fresh a long time by putting in a jar of 
cold water. Change it frequently. 

FLAVORING RXT^RAGT^. 

BriTER Almond Extract. — 1 pint of alcohol, 1 teacupful of 
peach meats. Let stand. 

Vanh^la Extract. — ^ pint of alcohol, 3 vanilla beans broken 
in bits. Let stand a few days. 

Lemon Extract. — 1 pint of alcohol, grated yellow rind of 5 
lemons. In a few days, if necessary, add |- ounce of oil of lemon. 

Orange Extract. — Prepare same as above, substituting oranges 
and oil of orange for lemon. These extracts are better and one- 
half cheaper than those that can be bought. 

Dry Flavoring. — Grate off the yellow rind of oranges and 
lemons (separately of course) that are to be used for sherbets, 
lemonades, etc. Mix the gratings well with four times their weight 
in powdered sugar, and put into closely corked bottles. This will 
give two excellent, pure, ever-ready flavorings for cakes, pies, pud- 
dings, blanc manges, etc. 

Peach pits or meats may be blanched, and fifteen or more of 
them rubbed to a paste and stirred into a loaf of cake in place of 
almond extract. 

Economical Substitute for Butter. — Melt a piece of nice 
fat pork and strain through a thin cloth into a jar. Set reside 



CAKE. 



239 



where it will cool quickly, when it may be used instead of butter 
in almost any kind of cake. Pound cake made of it is delicious. 
Dry sponge cake is very nice cut in thin slices and toasted 
delicately. Serve with creams, etc., or turn a boiled custard over 
them. 

wright:^s and mrasurrs. 



SUOAB. 



2 heaping teaspoonfula equal 1 heapine 

tablespoonful. 
2 level coffeecups powdered equal 1 

pound. 
1 pint (A, coffee) equals 12 ounces. 
1 pint granulated equals 14 ounces. 
1 quart of either equals 4 cupf uls. 



1 heaping tablespoonful equals 1 ounce 

2 level coffeecups; of granulated equal 

1 pound. 
2 heaping cups (A,coffee)equals 1 pound. 
1 quart broken loaf equals 1 pound. 
1 quart powdered equals 1 pound 7 

ounces. 



Spice. 

2 salt spoonfuls make 1 coffee spoonful. 2 coffee spoonfuls make 1 teaspooof ul. 
A dash of pepper is 14 salt spoonful. 

Floub and Meal. 

2 helping teaspoonfuls equal 1 heaping 2 heaping tablespoonfuls equal 1 ounce, 
tablespoonful. 5 heaping tablespoonfuls equal 1 cupful. 

2 cupf uls of unsifted flour equal 1 pound. S^s cupf uls commeal equal 1 pound. 
1 quart sifted flour equals 1 pound. 



Butter and Eggs. 



1 tablespoonful soft butter equals 1 

ounce. 

2 teacupf uls packed soft butter equals 1 

pound. 
1 12 cups lirm butter equals 1 pound. 
8 large or 1 medium sized eggs make 1 

pound. 



Size of a medium egg equals 1 ounce. 
4 heaping tablespoonfuls soft butter 

equals 1 cupful. 
1 pint well-packed soft butter equals 1 

pound. 
1 white of egg equals 1 ounce. 
1 yolk of egg equals 1 ounce. 



LiQtnDS. 



60 drops equal 1 teaspoonful or drachm. 

4 tablespoonfuls equal 1 ounce. 

2 gills equal ^ pint. 

A wine glass holds ^2 gill. 



4 teaspoonfuls equal 1 tablespoonful. 
4 ounces equal 1 gill. 
A common tumbler holds I3 pint. 
1 small teacup holds 1 gill. 



4 tablespoonfuls equal ^ gill. 
Oenebal Weights. 



8 drachms make 1 ounce. 
4 gills make 1 pint. 
4 quarts make 1 gallon. 



16 ounces make 1 pound. 
2 pints make 1 quart. 
8 quarts make 1 peck. 



240 THREE MEALS A DAY. ^ 

FROSTING. 

Cake should be nearly if net quite cold before attempting to 
frost it. 

In frosting dip the knife fr> quently in cold water. 

Very thick frosting may be made to adhere to a cake by 
taking 1 teaspoonful of gelatine dissolved in as little boiling water 
as possible and while hot rubbing all over the top of the cake. 
Then apply the frosting. If this precaution is not taken the sugar 
when dry is inclined to crumbie off a large cake where a very thick 
frosting has been used. 

One teaspoonful of lemon juice will do much toward prevent- 
ing frosting from crumbling. Vinegar is a partial substitute. One 
teaspoonful of cream has a softening effect. 

A RIM of stiff paper around a cake will retain the frosting in 
place until it hardens. 

Decorative Frosting. — Give the cake a plain coating of sti£F 
frosting. Smooth over the top and set the cake in a warm oven 
for a few minutes. Beat the white of an egg to a firm froth. 
Stir in powdered sugar until quite stiff, but not so stiff as the first 
frosting. Make three small cornucopias of writing paper, pin in 
shape, cut off the small ends of each to leave room to press the 
frosting through. Graduate the sizes of the three apertures. Fill 
the cornucopias with frosting, fold the paper over the top and use 
the thumbs to press the frosting through the lower opening. If it 
does not keep its shape, the frosting is not stiff enough and more 
sugar must be added. Cut out the designs in paper and outline 
them on the top of the cake by pricking the frosting with a large 
needle. Use the cornucopia with the largest opening for the large 
pattern. A horseshoe in the center with a vine of flowers, out- 
side of this a wreath of plain flowers, daisies for instance. Finish 
the edge with two or three rows of heavy dots. 

Cochineal Coloring. — 

1 dram of cream-tartar. 1 dram of saleratus. 

1 dram of alum. 1 dram of cochineal. 

Mix in f cup of boiling water. Bottle and cork for use. 
Make the wished for shade by using more or less of the prepare- 



CAKE. 241 

tion. A portion of the cake batter may be colored to suit and 
arranged in alternate layers. Tlie effect is very pretty. Red sugar 
sand may be bought at groceries and used for coloring cake batter. 
Quick Icing (White).— 

5 tablespoonf uls powdered 1 white of egg. 
sugar. Flavor with rose, vanilla or 

lemon. 
Mix the sugar and white of egg together in a bowl by merely 
stirring. Spread this semi-transparent mixture over the cake. A 
rim of paper put around the sides of the loaf will retain the frost- 
ing in place luitil it hardens. Leave in a warm place for an hour 
or two to dry. The frosting may be colored pink by a drop or so 
of prepared cochineal color. Icing is more tender made in this 
way than where the egg is beaten to a froth before adding the 
sugar. 

Quick Icing (Yellow). — Same as above, taking the yolks of 2 
eggs in place of the white to moisten the above amount of sugar. 
The three shades, white, pink, yellow, may be alternated to great 
advantage in frosting a layer cake. 
Frosting (White).— 

2 whites of eggs beaten ^ pound of powdered sugar, 
stiff. 
Beat together until it will fall in flakes from the knife. Dust 
the cake with flour to absorb any grease, and brush off lightly. 
Flavor the frosting to please the taste. 
Frosting (II).— 

Whites of two eggs beaten Stir in 18 tablespoonfuls pow- 

stiff. dered sugar. 

1 teaspoonful powdered 2 teaspoonfuls lemon juice or 
starch or 2 teaspoonfuls orange water, 

cornstarch. 
If a heavj-- frosting is required, let each coating dry in a warm 
oven before applying the next one. 

Frosting (Yellow). — Yolks of 2 eggs beaten with 1 cup of 
sugar. Flavor to suit. 

Boiled Frosting. — 1 cupful cf white sugar boiled with ^ cup 
of water until it will wax when dropped into cold water. Pour 

16 



242 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

this over the well-beaten white of 1 egg. Stir briskly until it is 
cool enough to thicken. After the top of the cake has been cov- 
ered, stir in a little fine dry sugar before frosting the sides. The 
cake should be cold. Put in the oven a moment to dry. 

Gelatins Frosting, Eggless. — Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of gel- 
atine in 6 teaspoonfuls of boiling water. Strain and stir in 1 cup 
of sugar (powdered). Flavor to suit enough for 1 cake. 

Eggless Frosting, Quick. — 1 cup of powdered or confection- 
ers' sugar moistened with as little cold water as can be used to 
make a smooth paste of the right consistency for spreading. 

Eggless Frosting, Boiled.— 1 cup of powdeied sugar boiled 
in 3i teaspoonfuls of milk for five minutes. Flavor, remove from 
fire and stir until it thickens. Spread on the cake before it hard- 
ens. 

Chocolate Frosting. — 1 white of an egg beaten stiff, add 1 cup 
of powdered sugar, 4 tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, or enough 
to suit the taste, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Boiled Chocolate Frosting. — ^ cake of chocolate, grated. 
Put it over boiling water to dissolve. Boil 1 cup of sugar with |- 
cup of sweet milk for ten minutes. After it begins to boil, add 
the chocolate, stirring until mixed. Use hot. 

Chocolale Cream Frosting. — l cup granulated sugar boiled 
in 1 cup ol water until it threads. Let cool slightly and beat un- 
til creamy, put over the cake, then cover with a thin layer of dis- 
solved chocolate melted over boiling water, or stir chocolate in. 

Almond Icing. — 2 cups of granulated sugar boiled with 4 
tablespoonfuls of water for five minutes, then pour it over 3 whites 
of eggs beaten to a froth. Beat the whole until cold, and add to 
it ^ pound of almonds, blanched and pounded to a paste with rose 
water. Nice for Sponge, Delicate or White Cake. 

Tutti-Frutti Frosting. — Prepare in the same manner as 
Almond Icing, adding instead of the pounded ahnonds ^ pound of 
almonds chopped, |- cup of large white raisins and somewhat less 
citron sliced thin. Particularly nice for Sponge, Delicate or White 
Cake. Delicious used as filling for some nice layer cake. 

Maple Syrup Frosting. — l white of an egg beaten *,o a froth, 
over this pour 1 cup of thick maple syrup, stir briskly. Maple 



CAKE. 243 

sngar may be melted and boiled to wax if syrup is not conven- 
ient. 

LOAF GAKRS. 

[See page 239 for weights and measures where scales are not convenient.] 

Wedding Fruit Cak .— 

3 pounds of butter, beaten to a cream. 

8 pounds of sugar, added to this and beaten with the hand 

until light. 
^ pint of rose-water. 
24 eggs, well-beaten, and 

4 pounds of flour sifted with ^ teaspoonful of soda and 1 
teaspoonful of cream-tartar. 

^ pound of blanched chopped almonds. 

2 nutmegs, grated. 3 pounds of raisins. 

i ounce of cloves. 1 pound of figs, chopped. 

^ ounce of mace. 2 pounds of currants. 

^ ounce of cinnamon. 1 pound of citron, shced. 

Dredge the fruit with flour and add last of all. This recipe 
will make 3 large or 4 medium sized loaves of cake. Bake slowly 
four hours. This cake will serve fifty or more persons. 

Groom's Cake.— 

1 pound of sugar. 1 pound of butter and 

12 yolks of eggs, beaten to a foam. Mix and beat thor- 
oughly together. Add 

1 pound of flour, browned. 2 pounds of currants. 

2 pounds of raisins. 1 pound of citron. 
12 whites of eggs beaten stiff. 

Mix part of the flour with the fruit and stir it in with the 
sugar, butter and yolks; then add the whites of the eggs, stir in 
the remainder of the flour and add 2 tablespoonfuls of mixed spices 
and 1 gill of rose water. 

Bake three hours. Frost with yellow frosting, using part of 
the yolks left from the Bride's Cake. 
Bride's Cake. — 

1 poimd of flour. J teaspoonful of soda. 

1 pound of sugar. l^teaspoonful of cream-tartar. 



244 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

^ pound of butter. 1 teaspoon ful of almond flav- 

16 whites of eggs, oring. 

Beat to a cream the butter and siigar, mix with the well- 
beaten whites of the eggs, then the flour sifted with the soda and 
cream-tartar. Stir gently and thoroughly and bake in a moderate 
oven. Frost with white frosting, using the yolks and the remain- 
der of those that have not been utilized in the yellow frosting for 
the Groom's Cake to make a loaf of Gold Cake. For a wedding these 
three cakes, viz. : Groom's Cake, Bride's Cake, and Gold Cake, 
should be made together. 
Fruit Cake.— 

1 pound of sugar. 1 pound of figs, sliced, or 

1 pound of flour. 1 pound of dates, seeded. 

^ pound of butter. ^ pound of citron, sliced. 

7 eggs. 1 teaspoonful ground nutmeg. 

1^ pound of currants, weK- 1 teaspoonful of cinnamon, 
washed and dried. Juice and grated yellow rind 

1 pound of raisins. of 1 lemon. 

Dredge the fruit, cream the butter and and sugar, add the 
beaten yolks, then the spices and whipped whites alternately with 
the flour. The fruit and lemon juice last. Yellow frosting is 
very suitable. 

Washington Fruit Cake. — 

2 cupfuls of butter. 5 eggs well-beaten. 

3 cupfuls of very brown 1 cupful of sweet milk, 
sugar. 1 teaspoonful of soda. 

4 cupfuls of browned flour. 2 teaspoonfuls cream-tartar. 
Mix as usual, and stir in at the last 

|- pound of currants, washed and dried. 

^ pound of raisins, seeded. 

1 pound of dates, seeded and chopped. 

1 teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, 1 of nutmeg. 
Bake slowly and steadily until done. If any of the fruit is 
omitted add a little more flour. 
Black Cake.— 

i pound of butter. 3 pounds of raisins. 

1 pound of brown sugar. ^ pound of citron. 



CAKE. 245 

1 pound of flour, browned. 1 level teaspoonful of ground 
3 pounds of currants, cloves. 

washed and dried. f cupful of molasses. 

12 eggs. 
If more flour is liked, add afterward. Put the fruit, well 
dredged with flour, in last, and add 1 large wine-glassful of rose- 
water. This cake cuts best when three or four weeks old. 
White Fruit Cake.— 

1 cupful of butter. |- pound of chopped almonds, 

2 cupfuls of sugar, white. blanched. 

2| cupfuls of flour. ^ pound of citron, sliced 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking- thin. 

powder. 1 cupful of dessicated cocoa- 

Whites of 8 eggs. nut. 

1 wine-glassful of rose-water. 
Beat the butter to a cream and gradually beat in the sugar 
and then the rose-water. Whip the eggs to a froth and stir in 
next. Sift the flour with the baking-powder, and lastly the fruit. 
Bake in a moderate oven and try with a broom splint. Make gold 
cake, salad dressing, or custard to pour over dry Sponge Cake with 
the extra yolks. Three or more yolks add very much to a ginger- 
bread. Use white frosting. 
Royal Fruit Cake. — 

2 ciipfuls of brown sugar. 4 cupfuls of flour. 
1 cupful of molasses. 4 eggs. 

1 cupful of butter. 3 cupfuls of stoned raisins, 

i cupful of milk. 1 cupful of chopped citron. 

3 cupfuls of currants, washed and dried. 
1 teaspoonful of ground cinnamon. 

1 teaspoonful of nutmeg. ^ teaspoonful of cloves. 

1 teaspoonful of soda and 2 teaspoonfuls of cream-tartar 

Or 8 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 
The currants and citron may be left out and double the 
amount of raisins used. Will keep moist six weeks or more if 
properly covered. This will be found more wholesome than the 
more expensive rules. 



246 



THREE MEALS A DAY. 



Cream Fruit Cake (Plain). 

2 cupfuls brown sugar. 
1 cnpf ul sour cream (thick). 
I cupful currants. 

1 teaspoonful soda dis- 
solved in the cream. 

Raised Fruit Cake.— 

2 cups bread sponge. 
f cupful butter. 
1 cupful molasses. 

1 teaspoonful each of cin- 
namon and allspice. 

One cupful of chopped fruit, raisins, or raisins and currants, 
stewed in the molasses. Add flour to make stiff. 
Apple Fruit Cake. — 

2 cupfuls brown sugar. 1^ cupfuls molasses. 

1^ pounds dried apples, chopped fine, and soaked over night. 
Stew two hours in the molasses. When cold mix with the 
sugar and add : 



3 cupfuls flour. 
I cupful raisins, 
legg. 



2 eggs. 

i cupful sugar. 
^ teaspoonful soda. 
^ teaspoonful cloves. 



1 cupful of chopped suet. 
1 cupful of butter and lard 

mixed. 
1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 
1 cupful raisins. 
1 cupful of nut-meats; a 
desirable addition. 
Flavor with lemon extract, or juice of 1 lemon. 
Will make two large loaves. 

Dried Apple Cake.— 1 cupful of dried apples soaked in 
water over night, then chopped and stewed two hours in 1 cupful 
of molasses. Add to this: 



1 cupful sour milk. 

3 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

^ teaspoonful cloves. 

1 cupful currants. 

Allspice. 

Flour to stiffen. 

Extra nice. 



2 eggs. 

i cupful of butter or lard. 

4 cupfuls flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon. 

^ teaspoonful cloves. 



1 cupful sugar. 
1 cupful sour milk. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 
1 teaspoonful mace or grated 
nutmeg. 



CAKE. 



247 



Raisin Cake.— 

2 cupfuls oT sugar. 

3 eggs. 

1 cupful molasses. 
1 teaspoouful of cream- 
tartar. 

1 pound of raisins. 

Spice to taste. By adding currants and citron this becomes a 
very nice fruit cake and will keep some time. 

Pork Fruit Cake. — 1 pound fat, salt pork chopped fine. 
Pour over it 1 pint boiling water. Add : 



1 cupful of butter, or butter 

and lard. 
1 cupful of milk. 
I teaspoonful soda. 
5 cupfuls of flour. 



2 cupfuls brown sugar. 
2 pounds of raisins, seeded 
and chopped. 

1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream-tar- 
tar. 



1 cupful molasses. 

2 pounds of currants. 

1 pound citron, shredded. 
1 teaspoonful cloves. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 
1 nutmeg grated. 



6 heaping cupfuls of flour measured before sifting. 

The fruit can be reduced in quantity if liked, and more flour 
added to make the batter stiff enough. 1 wine glass of rose water 
or the juice of 1 lemon may be added at the last. Mix altogether, 
adding the fruit well dredged with flour, and the spices and rose 
water or lemon juice, last of all. Bake slowly. Try with a 
splint. This, if kept in a stone jar, will keep moist two 
months. 

White Citron Cake.— 
1 cupful of butter. 

1 cupful of sweet milk. 

2 heaping teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder. 

Cream the butter and sugar and add the other ingredients. 
Flavor with vanOla. Put into the cake-pan a layer of cake, then 
a layer of citron cut in thin strips. Alternate in this way untU 
the cake sponge is all used. This wUl be found more ornamental 
than stirring the citron into the cake, which may be done, how- 
ever, if preferred. If wished more common 3 whole eggs may be 
used instead of the whites of G. If the whites are used, the yolks 



2 cupfuls of sugar. 
4 cupfuls sifted flour. 
Whites of 6 eggs. 



248 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

may be utilized in a yellow frosting or other ways of disposing of 
them. 

Angel's Food.— 

1| gobletful of powdered Whites of 11 eggs. 

sugar. 1 teaspoonful cream -tartar. 

1 gobletful sifted flour. 
Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Sift the sugar four or fivo 
times, sift the cream-tartar through the flour four times. Add the 
sugar to the eggs slowly as if frosting were being made, add tlu' 
flour, the same stirring lightly and as little as possible, then the 
flavoring, 1 teaspoonful vanilla, or lemon, or rose. Bake in a deep, 
new, unbuttered tin three-fourths of an hour. When done, open 
the oven-door and let it cool off gradually. After a few minutes, 
if the pan has a tube, turn it upside down upon it, if not, rest it 
upside down upon two bricks or other supports. When entirely 
cold, loosen from the sides of the tin with a sharp knife. Do not 
allow if. to be jarred or shaken in the oven, nor open the door for 
the first fifteen minutes, as much of the success of this delicious 
sweet depends upon the baking. Half-moon shaped tins 4 inches 
deep are used by fancy bakers for this cake. 

Sponge ('ake (Elegant).— 12 eggs. The weight of eggs (be- 
fore they are broken) in powdered sugar, |- their weight in flour, 1 
lemon, juice and grated yellow rind, a pinch of salt. Beat the yolks 
to a smooth batter, add the sugar, then the lemon-juice and grated 
rind, and the flour gradually, lastly the beaten whites. Be careful 
that the heat of the oven is steady. Cover the cake with paper to 
prevent burning. It is a good plan to line the tins with a well but- 
tered paper, fitted neatly to the sides and bottom. 

Sponge Cake (Nice).— 

6 eggs. ^ pound of sifted flour, 

f pound powdered sugar. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. 
Sift the flour and baking-powder together and mix the ingred- 
ients according to rule given for Elegant. 

Flavor with 1 teaspoonful of lemon extract and add while 
mixing 2 tablespsonfuls of cold water. If, however, 1 wine 
glass of rose-water is used in flavoring instead of the lemon ex- 
tract, or the juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, theVater may be 



CAKK. 249 

omitted. The use of a little liquid serves to make the cake more 
moist and less liable to dry quickly; add a pinch of salt. Bake in a 
square tin pan and pour in the mixture no more than an inch 
deep. 

Sponge Cake (Plain) — 1 cupful of sugar, 1 cupful of flour 
sifted with 1 teaspoouful baking powder, 3 eggs, the whites and 
yolks beaten separately, the sugar and yolks beaten together. Add 
the flour, then the whites beaten to a froth. Last of all 2 table- 
spoonfuls of cold water. Flavor to suit the taste and add a pinch 
of salt. 

Milk Sponge Cake.— 

2 eggs. A pinch of salt. 

1 cupful of sugar. 1 teaspoonful of lemon or va- 

1 cupful of sweet milk. nilla extract. 

2 even teaspooufuls of Add a spoonful of butter, if 
baking powder. desired. 

2 cupfuls of flour. 

Beat the eggs two minutes, then the eggs and sugar five min-- 
utes, and add the other ingredients. 

Cream Sponge Cake. — Make same as Milk Sponge Cake, 
substituting sweet cream for milk. If sour cream is used take ^ 
teaspoonful of soda instead of baking powder. 

Velvet Sponge Cake.— 2 eggs beaten light, beat in 1 cupful 
of granulated or powdered sugar, ^ cupful of sifted flour, next ^ 
cupful of flour sifted with 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, and 
lastly, i (scant) cupful of boiling water very gradually. • Have the 
tin buttered. Fill and bake immediately in a well heated oven. 
The batter will seem very thin, but the cake is excellent. By the 
use of 1 more egg any layer cake may be made better than with 
butter. For this save 2 of the whites out for frosting, using the 
other egg and the 2 yolks for the cake. Bake in layer cake tins. 
Whip the whites stiff and stir in sugar. Spread between each 
layer and over the top. 

For cocoanut cake sprinkle cocoanut over the frosting between 
the layers and thickly over the top layer. For chocolate, grate ^ 
teacupful of Baker's chocolate and stir in the frosting and use as 
before. 



250 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

White Sponge Cake.— 

Whites of 4 eggs. ^ teaspoonful of baking-powder. 

1 cupful of sugar. ^ cupful of flour. 

Sift the flour and baking-powder together. Beat the eggs and 
add the sugar, then the other ingredients. Flavor with rose, lemon 
or almond extracts. Yellow frosting makes a pretty addition, or a 
boiled custard can be made of the yolk and 1 pint of milk, flavoring 
and sweetening to suit. Serve this separately. 

Delicate Cake. — 1 cupful of butter stirred to a cream with 1 
pound of powdered sugar, add whites of 14 eggs beaten to a froth, 
I cupful of sweet milk and 4^ cups of flour sifted with 2 teaspoon- 
fuls of baking-powder. Measm'e the flour before sifting. Flavor 
with rose, lemon or almond. Bake in a quick oven. Frost with 
yellow frosting, if liked, and make custard of remainder of 
yolks. Serve this separately. 

Delicate Cake (II). — 6 whites of eggs, 2 cupfuls of sugar 
creamed with ^ cupful of butter, add | cupful of sweet milk or 
water and 3 cupfuls of flour sifted with 1 teaspoonful of cream-tar- 
tar and ^ teaspoonful cf soda. Flavor to suit. Add the whites of 
eggs to the butter and sugar, and then the other ingredients. 

Cornstarch Snow Cake.— 

1 cupful of butter creamed with 2 cupfuls of sugar. 

2 cupfuls of flour. 1 cupful of milk. 
1 cupful of cornstarch. 

1| teaspoonful of baking powder, sifted together. 

8 whites of eggs bea^n to a stiff froth and added with 

1 teaspoonful of rose, lemon, vanilla or almond extract. 
This rule may be divided and half made at one time. 
Snowdrift Cake.— 

1| cupfuls of white sugar mixed with i cupful of butter. 

1 cupful of sweet milk or half milk and water. 
5 whites of eggs beaten stiff. 

3 cupfuls of flour sifted before measuring, then sifted with 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

The same rule will make an excellent gold cake by adding 
1 v'l ole egg to the yolks of the eggs and mixing in the same 
way. 



CAKE. 251 

Snowflake Cake. — 

1| cupfuls white sugar. Whites of 3 eggs well-beaten. 

^ cupful butter. i- cupful water or milk. 

1 teaspoonful cream-tartar. ) •,, -i • ,, " 

^ teaspoonful soda. ) 

3 cupfuls of flour. 
Flavor with lemon and mix same as Snowdrift Cake. This 
can be baked in a loaf, or in layers, with any desired filling. "When 
for common use the entire 3 eggs can be used and a very little 
more flour added. 
Starch Cake.— 

1 cupful of common starch dissolved in 1 cupful sweet cream. 

2 cupfuls of flour. 2 cupfuls powdered sugar. 

1 cupful butter. 7 egg whites beaten to a froth. 

1 teaspoonful cream-tartar. ^ teaspoonful soda. 

Mix butter and sugar. Add the starch dissolved in cream. 
Sift the cream tartar and soda in the flour, and put the cake together 
according to the rule for Snowdrift Cake. This is a delicious cake 
and white as snow. Frost with either white or yellow frosting. 
Flavor to the taste. 

Silver Cake.- 
i cupful butter. 

2 cupfuls powdered sugar creamed together. 
I cupful milk, or milk and water. 

1 teaspoonful lemon or rose. 
Whites of 6 eggs well-beaten. 

3 heaping cupfuls of flour. 

^ teaspoonful soda and 1 teaspoonful cream-tartar. 
Use white frosting. This makes a good layer cake also, and 
can be used for a White Fruit Cake by adding: 

1 cocoanut grated. ^ pound citron sliced. 

1 pound blanched almonds sliced. 
Dredge these with flour and stir into the cake batter. 

Gold Cake.— 

1 cupful sugar and 

^ cupful butter, creamed together. 

Yolks of 6 eggs well-beaten. 



252 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Juice and grated rind of 1 lemon. 

^ teaspoonful soda and 1 teaspoonful cream-tartar sifted with 

2 large cupfuls of flour. 

Add lemon juice and bake. Use yellow frosting. Make Gold 

and Silver Cake at same time. Bake in square tins (large). Cut in 

squares and s§rve mixed in the cake baskets for the sake of contrast. 

Plain Silver Cake. — Make after recipe for Snowflake Cake. 

Plain Gold Cake.— 

1 whole egg and the yolks of 3. 

1 cupful butter. 1 cupful sugar. 

^ cupful sweet milk or water. 

1| cupfuls flour. I teaspoonful soda. 

1 teaspoonful cream-tartar. 

Flavor with lemon or vanilla. See latter part of recipe for 
Gold Cake for further directions. 
Lady Cake.— 

2 cupfuls powdered sugar creamed with 

I cupful butter. | cupful sweet milk. 

3 cupfuls of flour sifted with 1 teaspoonful baking powder. 
6 whites of egg beaten stiff or 4 whole eggs ; the whites are 

nicer. 
Flavor with essence of almond. Bake in a large shallow pan 
about one-half hour in a moderate oven. If iced, use the Quick 
Icing. 

Feather Cake (Egoless). — 
1 cupful sugar. 

1 cupful sweet milk, or milk and water. 
2^ cupfuls flour. 1 teaspoonful lemon extract. 

1 teaspoonful cream-tartar. 

^ teaspoonful soda. 1 tablespoonful butter. 

A pinch of salt. 
.Feather Cake.— 

1 cupful sugar. 1 egg. 

2 scant cupfuls flour. | cupful milk or water (large). 
1 tablespoonful butter. Pinch of salt. 

1 teaspoonful baking powder. 
1 teaspoonful lemon extract. 



CAKE. 253 

Stir ingredients together without' beating separately. Bake 
forty minutes. Serve either hot or cold. 
Coffee Cake.- 

1 cupful sugar. 1 cupful butter. 

1 cupful molasses. 1 cupful strong black coffee. 

2 cupfuls of raisins. 1 egg. 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 5 cupfuls flour. 

^ teaspoonful cloves. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 
Put the soda in the coffee. 
Spice Cake. - 

1 cupful butter. 2 cupfuls brown sugar. 

1 cupful sweet milk. 5 eggs. 

3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

1 teaspoonful each of cinnamon, allspice, nutmeg, mace, and 
finely ground coffee. 

^ teaspoonful cloves. 5 cupfuls flour. 

This makes a large loaf, and will keep some time if wrapped 
in a cloth. 

Spice Raisin Cake. — 

1 cupful butter. 1 cupful brown sugar. 

1 cupful molasses. 3 eggs beaten separately. 

3 cupfuls flour. 1 cupful sour milk. 

1 or 2 cupfuls stoned raisins. 

1 level teaspoonful of soda dissolved in the milk. 

1 tablespoonful of allspice, cinnamon and ginger. 

^ teaspoonful cloves. 
Marble Cake.— Light Part. 

1^ cupfuls white sugar. ^ cupful butter. 

^ cupful sweet milk. 1 teaspoonful cream-tartar. 

^ teaspoonful soda. Whites of 4 eggs. 

2^ cupfuls of flour sifted with the rising. 

1 teaspooniul flavoring, lemon or vaniUa. 
Dark Part. 

1 cupful brown sugar. ^ cupful molasses. 

^ cupful butter. i cupful sour milk. 

2^ cupfuls flour sifted with ^ teaspoonful soda and 



2 54 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

f teaspoonful cream tartar. 

Yolks of 4 eggs. 1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 

^ teaspoonful each cloves, allspice, nutmeg. 
Beat thoroughly. Put in the pan a layer of the dark batter, 
then large spoonfuls of the white light until all the batter is used. 
Bake one hour. 

Marble Cake (II).— 

3 cupfuls white sugar. 1 cupful butter. 

1 cupful sweet milk. 

Whites of 8 eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; 4 whole eggs may 
be «ised instead, and the yellowish tint given to the batter will be 
found to contrast prettily with the dark part ; 5 cupfuls of flour 
sifted with 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. After the cake is mixed 
take out ^ of the batter and spice it highly with 1 teaspoonful each 
of powdered nutmeg, cinnamon, finely ground coffee, allspice, 
mace and ^ teaspoonful cloves and ginger. Put in half the white 
batter, then all the dark and the remainder of the white. Bake 
one hour. 

Red and White Marble Cake. — Make the white and red part 
after the rule given below for Watermelon Cake, leaving out the 
raisins and almonds. Arrange irregularly in the cake tin. 

Watermelon Cake.— White Part. 

2 cupfuls white sugar. | cupful butter, 
f cupful sweet milk. 3 cupfuls flour. 

Whites of 5 eggs. 2^ teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Eed Part. 
5 eggs, yolks of. 1 cupful red sugar sand, bright. 

J cupful butter. ^ cupful sweet milk. 

i pound of seeded raisins 2 cupfuls of flour. 

left whole and well 2|^ teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
dredged with flour. 
Put the red batter in the center of the pan and pol^r the white 
around the outside. It is better that two persons should fill the 
pan. This will be found a delicious and ornamental dish. One 
cupful of blanched almonds may be cut in halves and stirred in the 
white part with a very good effect. 

Marbled Chocolate Cake,— Make a batter as far any of the 



CAKE. 255 

rules given for White Cake. Take out 1 cupful and add to it 5 
tablespoonfu's of grated chocolate dissolved in a little sweet milk. 
Flavor with vanilla. Pour a layer white batter into the pan, then 
drop the chocolate batter in places, pour in the rest of the white 
part of batter and bake in a well-heated oven. 
Chocolate Loaf Cake.— 

2 cupfuls powdered sugar. | cupful butter, scant. 

§ cupfid sweet milk. 3 cupfuls flour. 

2 eggs, whites (1 whole egg may be used instead). 

2 teaspoonf uls baking powder. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

2 ounces of chocolate, shaved fine and melted over steam. 
Add this last. 
If preferred dissolve the chocolate for the cake in a very little 
sweet milk as for Chocolate Marbled Cake. Frost with the dark 
chocolate frosting or white frosting. Bake in a square tin. It is 
very pretty mixed with white cake when served. 
Cocoanut Loaf Cake.— 

1 pound of sugar. 1 pound of flour. 

^ pound butter. 5 eggs. 

1 good-sized cocoanut grated. 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar. ^ teaspoonful soda. 

Beat the yolks with the sugar; the whites to a froth; add the 
milk of the cocoanut last. 
Cocoanut Loaf Cake. — 

2 eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

1 cupful sugar. ^ cupful milk. 

2 CTipfuls flour. 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

2 cupfuls cocoanut soaked in milk (desiccated). 
Walnut Cake. — 

4 eggs beaten separately. 2 cupfuls of sugar. 

1 cupful of butter. 1 cupful of sweet milk. 

3 cupfuls of flour, heaped. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream-tartar. 

2 cupfuls of nutmeats, cut small; rub the black skins off 
the nuts before putting in the cake. 
One cup of raisins is a great addition. Bake in two loaves. 
Frost. 



256 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Nut Cake.— 

i cupful of butter. 1 cupful of white sugar 

I cupful of milk. 

3 eggs, whites only, or 2 whole eggs, reserving 1 white for 

frosting. 
1 teaspoon fill of cream-tartar. 
^ teaspoonful of soda. 2 cupfuls of flour. 

1 cupful of hickory-nut meats. 

Beat the eggs to a light froth and add the other ingredients. 
English walnuts are exceedingly nice; cut the meats rather fine 
for the cake; bake in shallow square tins, two inches thick. Cut in 
squares and frost, putting ^ walnut meat on each square while the 
frosting is moist. 

Nut Cake (II).— 

1^ cupfuls of sugar. 1 cupful of sour milk, 

i cupful of butter. 3 cupfuls of flour. 

2 eggs. 1 teaspoonful of soda. 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 1^ cupfuls of nut-meats. 

1 cupful of stoned raisins. 

Pound Cake.— 

1 pound pulverized sugar. 1 pound of flour. 

1 pound of butter. ^ cupful of sweet milk. 

10 eggs. Iteaspoonf Ills baking-powder. 

Eub the butter to a cream, add the beaten yolk of eggs, sift 
in the sugar, flour and baking-powder; add the beaten whites of 
eggs last and flavor. The cake is improved by adding ^ pound of 
citron sliced, or ^ pound of almonds blanched and powdered fine 
with rose water. Flavor with rose water or any other flavoring. 
This will make two large loaves. 
Water Pound Cake.— 

3 eggs. 2 cupfuls of sugar. 
1 cupful of cold water. 3 cupfuls of flour. 
ltea=;poonf 111 cream-tartar. ^ teaspoonful of soda. 
Nutmeg to flavor. I cupful butter. 

Loaf Cake.— 

1 pound of butter beaten to a cream. 

2 pounds of sugar rolled fine. 



CAKE. 257 

8 pounds of sifted wheat flour. 
8 well-beaten eggs. 

3 teaspoonfuls of soda, dissolved in a little water. 
1 tablespoonful of ground cinnamon. 

I" nutmeg, grated. 

1 pound of ourrants, washed and dried. 
1 pound of raisins, stoned and cut in two. 
Work the whole well together, divide in 3 loaves, put in but 
tered basins, and bake one hour in a moderate oven. One-half 
this rule makes one large loaf. 
Raised Loaf Cake. — 

1 pint of lukewarm milk. 

2 quarts of sifted flour. 
^ cupful of yeast. 

Set this batter where it will rise quickly. When perfectly 
light work in with the hand. 

4 beaten eggs. 1 teaspoonful of salt. 

2 teaspoonfuls of ground cinnamon. 
1 pound of white sugar. 

i pound of butter (1 cup, packed). 
Eub butter and sugar to a cream and work into the cake and 
add 1 quart of sifted flour. Mix together with the hand and set 
where it will rise again. When of a spongy lightness put into 
buttered cake-pans and let them stand fifteen or twenty minutes 
before baking. 1| pounds of raisins added just before putting the 
cake in tins is an addition. Flavor with a wineglassful of rose- 
water. 

Quick-Raised Loaf Cake. — 

3 cupfuls of thick, light bread sponge. 

1 cupful of butter, worked in by hand. Melt the butter if 
necessary. Part lard may be used. 

4 eggs, beaten with 2 cupfuls of white sugar. 
1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 1 nutmeg, grated. 

1 teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in 1 small cupful of milk. 
Work the whole well for ten minutes and work in 1 pound of 
seeded raisins. Put in buttered cake-\)ans and let rise twenty 
nninutes before baking. 

17 



258 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Date Loaf Cake. — 1 pound of dates, seeded and cut rather 
small; make a batter as lor Snowflake Cake and put batter and 
dates in the pan in alternate layers, beginning and ending with 
batter. 

Fig Loaf Cake. — Make as above, substituting figs cut fine for 
dates. H^ 

Lincoln Cake. — 

i- pound butter. 1 pound of sugar. 

1 pound flour. , 6 eggs. 

2 cupfuls sour cream (or milk). 
1 nutmeg grated. 

1 teafjpoonful cinnamon. 1 tablespoonful rose-water. 

Teaspoonful soda dissolved in hot water and added to the milk. 
Mix the blotter and sugar and put with them the yolks whipped 
light, then the cream, spice, rose water and flour and a double 
handful of citron, cut fine, and dredged with flour, and last of all 
the beaten whites of the eggs. Stir thoroughly and bake in a loaf, 
or in a card, using »a square, shallow baking-pan. This is a good 
ca]*e and keeps well. Flavor the frosting with lemon. The white 
of 'ne egg can be left out for this purpose. 
1— 2— 3— 4— Cake.— 

1 cupful butter. 2 cupfuls of sugar. 

3 cupfuls flour. 4 eggs. 

1 cupful milk. - ^ teaspoonful mixed spice. 
i teaspoonful soda. 1 teaspoonful cream -tartar. 

Orange Cake.— ^ 

Yolks of 5 eggs, whites of 4. 

2 cupfuls of sugar. ^ cupful of water. 

1 orange, grated rind and juice. 

2 cupfuls flour. i cupful butter. 
1 heaping teaspoonful baking powder. 

Frost with the following : 

Feosting. 
White cf i egg. 1 cupful white sugar, 

i the juice and grated rind of 1 orange. 
Lemon Cake. — 

1 ^upful butter. ^ cupfuls sugar. 



CAKE. 259 

5 eggs beaten separately. 

I cupful of milk in which dissolve 

^ teaspoonful of soda. No cream-tartar is used, the lemon 

juice furnishing the required acid. 
1 lemon, juice and grated rind. 
4 cupfuls flour. 
Mix the butter and sugar. Add the beaten yolks, then the 
milk, followed by the flour and lemon, lastly the stiffly beaten 
whites of the eggs. Frost as follows : 

Frosting. 
White of 1 egg. This white may be omitted from the 

above rule. 
9 teaspoonfuls white sugar. 

1 teaspoonful corn-starch. 1 teaspoonful lemon juice. 
A delicious loaf of cake. 
Almoud Cake. — 

1 cupful of butter mixed with 

2 cupfuls of sugar. 2^upfuls of flour. 
1 cupful sweet milk or sweet cream. 

Whites of 6 eggs or 3 whole eggs. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 1 teaspoonful cream-tartar. 

i pound chopped and blanched almonds rubbed to a paste. 

If the whites only are used a gold cake may be made of the 
yolks or a boiled custard in the proportion of 4 yolks to 1 pint of 
. milk, sweetening and flavoring to taste. 

Cider Cake.— 

2 cupfuls sugar. 1 cupful butter. 

4 eggs. 1^ cupfuls cider with 

1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in it. 

4| cupfuls flour. 2 cupfuls (any kind) of fruit, 

German Coffee Cake.— 

1 quart bread sponge. 1 pint sweet milk. 

1 cupful sugar. 1 cupful butter. 

2 eggs. ^ teaspoonful salt. 
1 teaspoonful each of cinnamon and nutmeg. 

Flour to make a soft dough; let it rise, then knead down. 
Boll out an inch thick, put in bread-pans and let rise agam. Brush 



Siao-i- 



26o THREE MEALS A DAY. 

over the top with beaten egg, sprinkle thickly with sugar, dust with 
cinnamon. Bake. 

German Roll Cake. — Make as above. Roll out, let rise 
again, rub over with melted butter. Put on plenty of sugar, 
sprinkle with cinnamon, then raisins and sliced citron. Roll up 
and cut slices one-half inch thick. Bake. 
Quick German Coffee Cake. — 

1 cupful sweet milk. 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

1 heaping teaspooiiful butter. 

1 egg. ^ cupful sugar. 
^ teaspoonful salt. 

Flour enough to make a stiff batter. 

Sift the baking powder with part of the flour. The egg can 
be omitted. Cover the top with sugar, cinnamon and bits of but- 
ter. Bake. ^Very nice hot for breakfast. 

German Apple Cake. — Peel, quarter and divide the quarters 
and cover the top of German Coffee Cake (after the sugar and egg 
has been applied) closely with these sliced apples laid in even rows. 
Bake without burning. Peaches can be used in same way. 

Bread Cake (Nice for Children). — 

2 cupfuls light dough. 1^ cupfuls of sugar. 

I cupful butter. 3 tablespoonfuls sour milk. 

^ teaspoonful soda dissolved in the milk. 

1 grated nutmeg. 1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 

1 cupful raisins. 1 cupful currants. 

Will keep fresh and good a long time. 
Cream Cake. — 

1 cupful sour cream. 1 cupful sugar. 

2 cupfuls flour. 1 egg. 

^ teaspoonful soda. 
This can be baked in a loaf or is nice baked in gem irons. 
Huckleberry Cake. — 

1 quart of huckleberries. 4 cupfuls of flour. 

1 cupful sugar. 3 eggs. 

^ cupful melted butter. 1 cupful milk. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 1^ teaspoonfuls cream-tartar. 



CAKE. 261 

Rub the sugar and eggs together and the other ingredients, 
the berries last of all, dredging them well with flour. 
White Mountain Cake.— 

4 eggs well-beaten. 2^ cupfuls white sugar. 
1 cupful butter. 1 cupful sour milk. 

1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in the milk. 

5 cupfuls of flour. 

] teaspoonful vanilla and 1 of lemon. 

1 heaping cupful raisins, whole. , 

1 cupful citron, sliced. 

^ cupful almond meats, sliced. 
Will make two loaves. 
Graham Cake. — 

1 cupful sugar. ^ cupful butter. 

1 egg. 1 cupful sweet n^ilk. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Pinch of salt. 

Flavor with nutmeg or lemon. 

3 cupfuls of Graham flour. 

LaAYRR gakrs. 

Layer Cake should always cool on a perfectly flat surface, not 
a plate. One of the jelly cake tins turned upside down will 
answer. 

Many of the f rostings given for Loaf Cakes make a very desir- 
able filling for layer cakes. 

Rules for mixing, baking, buttering tins, etc., are same as 
those given for Loaf Cake. 

Cocoanut Meat should be taken from the shell and dried in a 
warm ploce for some hours before grating. 

Cream Fillings for layer cakes necessitate the use of frosting 
for the top layer, or a heavy dusting of powdered sugar. 

Boiled Icing for filling, make same as Boiled Frosting. Flavor to 
suit. Spread between the layers and on the top. The same may 
be said of Quick Frosting, Yellow Frosting, Eggless Frosting — two 
kinds, Tutti Frutti Frosting, Gelatine and most of the others 



262 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

given for Loaf Cakes. Aiay of these frostings can be spread 
between the layers and on the top also. 

Whipped Cream Filling. — 2^ cupful sweet cream, or sour, 
whipped stiff with 2 tablespoonfuls of white sugar. Flavor to suit 
with a few drops of some favorite essence. Quickly prepared and 
delicious. This amount will answer for two layers. 

Alinoiitl Cream Filling. — 

1 pound of almonds blanched and pounded to a paste. 

1 coffee cupful sweet or sour cream. 

2 tablespoonfuls of corn-starch scalded in a little sweet milk. 
Beat together, flavor with a little almond extract. Spread 

between the layers of cake. This filling is suitable for the most 
expensive cakes. The top may be frosted with a plain frosting if 
desired. 

Cream Filling, Plain. — 

1 pint sweet milk. ^ cupful corn-starch. 

^ cupful sugar. 1 teaspoonful butter. 

Thicken the milk with the corn-starch, add the sugar and boil 
until as thick as cornstarch pudding. When almost cool flavor 
with 1 tablespoonful of lemon, or 1 teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 
Spread between the layers of cake. 
Cream Filling.— 

1 pint new milk. 1 cupful sugar. 

^ cupful flour. 2 eggs. 

Set the basin of milk into another of hot water. Beat the 
sugar flour and eggs together until they are light and smooth. Let 
the milk boil and stir in with a pinch of salt. Cook twenty min- 
utes, stirring often. Flavor to suit. Spread between the layers. 
This is a good filling for cream puffs. 

Chocolate Filling.— Scald 1 pint of milk. Stir in 
1 tablesnoonful corn-starch. 

1 egg beaten. 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls grated chocolate. 

Any of the Chocolate Frostings will also answer for fillings. 
These may be spread between and on the top also. 
Chocolate Cream Filling. — 
2 tablespoonfuls grated chocolate. 



CAKE. 263 

1 cupful milk. I cupM sugar. 

1 dessert spoonful corn-starch. Sweeten to taste. 

Flavor with vanilia. Cook the cream by setting the dish in 
another containing boiling water. Let cool before using. 

Chocolate Frosting, Egoless. — l cupful powdered sugar, 
moistened with just enough cold water to make it into a smooth 
creamy paste. Stir in grated chocolate until it is the right color 
and flavor. Spread between the layers and on top. 

Cocoanut Frosting, Eggless. — Make in the same manner 
as the chocolate given above, substituting ^ cupful, or more, cocoa- 
nut, either fresh or grated. 

Cocoanut Filling.— 

^ cupful of thick sour cream. 

^ cupful of cocoanut. ^ cupful of white sugar. 

Stir together and put between the layers and on top. 

Cocoanut Frosting may be made by stirring a quantity of 
grated fresh cocoanut into coiumon frosting. Spread between 
layers and on top. 

Cocoanut-Chocolate Filling. — Make a chocolate frosting, or 
a chocolate cream filliug and stir a ^ or | of a cupful of gi-ated 
cocoanut into it. Spread between the layers and if desired frost 
the top, or sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

Lemon Filling. — 

Juice of 1 lemon and grated yellow rind. 

2 eggs, or 1 egg and 1 teaspoonful of flour. 

1 cupful of sugar. 1 teaspoonful of butter. 

2 teaspooufuls of water. 

Beat all together and cook slowly over boiling water. When 
it comes to a boil remove and cool before using. Spread between 
the layers. Some of the lemon jellies are also nice. 
Orange Filling.— 

White of 1 egg beaten to a froth. 
Juice and grated rind of 1 orange, with 
Powdered sugar enough to make a stiff cream. 
Heat on the stove and spread between and over top. Either 
orange or lemon juice may be stirred stiff with powdered sugar 
and used in the same way. Use perfectly cold, however. 



264 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Fig Filling.— 

1 pound of figs, cut fine. 1 cupful of brown sugar. 

1 cupful of water. 
Cook until it is a paste. Let it cool before spreading between 
the layers. 

Lemon Jelly.— 

2 cupfuls of sugar. Yolks of 3 eggs. 

Juice of 2 lemons. 
Set the dish in boiling water and cook until thickened. Then 
add the well-beaten whites of the eggs. Spread between the layers 
of cake. 
y^Jelly Cake.— 

3 eggs, well-beaten. 1 cupful of sugar. 
^ cupful of sweet milk or water, 

2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 

^ teaspoonful of soda, 1 teaspoonful cream-tartar 

(both dissolved in the milk). 1^ cupfuls of flour. 
Bake in four or five layers. Put together with any kind of 
jelly, marmalade or jam. 

Roll Jelly Cake.— 

3 well-beaten eggs. 1 cupful of sugar. 

1 cupful of flour. 2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sweet milk or water. 

Stir sugar, yolks of eggs and milk together, then flour and 
baking-powder sifted together. This will make it stiff. Add 
the beaten whites of the eggs. Bake in two long pie-tins; spread 
the under side of the cake with any kind of jelly as soon as it comes 
from the oven and roll. This makes two rolls, or it may be baked 
in a large, well-buttered dripping-pan and rolled in one large roll. 
If the edges of the cake are slightly split with a knife before 
hand the cake will roll more easily. Lay on a paper to roll and 
wrap in the paper tightly, fastening the ends and lay on a cushion 
or pillow to cool, that it may be perfectly round. Slice from the 
end. 

Layer Cake. — For any FniLiNO, Jelly, Cream, Chocolate, etc. 

3 eggs and l^^ cupfuls of sugar (beat to- 
1 cupful of sweet cream. gether). 



CAKE. 265 

2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder, sifted with 2 cupfuls of 
flour. 

Flavor with lemon or vanilla. 4 tablepoonfnls of the batter 
areenough for one tin. Bake immediately in a moderate oven. 
This will make six layers and is available for any of the fillings 
given at the beginning of chapter. 

Spouge Layer Cake. — See Velvet Sponge Cake. Can be 
used for any layer cake. 

Feather Layer Cake. — 

3 eggs, beaten separately. 2 cupfuls sugar creamed with 

1 cupful of rich milk. i cupful of butter. 

3 cupfuls of flour. Flavoring to suit. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, sifted with the flour. 
Add the whites of the eggs last. This will make four layers. 

It is very nice poured in two square tins and frosted with any pre- 
ferred frosting, cut in squares singly, or the two laid together with 
frosting between and on the top. 

Apple Jelly Cake.— 

4 eggs, well beaten. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

1 cupful of flour sifted with 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder. 
1 cupful of sugar. 
Pake in 4 layers and spread the following jelly between the 
cakes and on the top layer. 

1 lemon, grated rind and juice. 
1 sour apple, pared and grated. 

1 cupful of sugar. 

Boil all together five minutes. 

Lemon Jelly Cake. — Use rule for Feather Layer Cake. Put 
together with the following Jelly : 

2 lemons, grated, rind and 1 egg. 

juice. ^ cupful of water. 

1 cupful of sugar. 1 tablespoonful of butter. 

1 tablespoonful of flour mixed with a little water. 
Cook over boiling water until it thickens. Place between the 
layers of cake. This cake will keep well and is better at the end 
of a week than it is the first day. 



266 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

White Lemon Jelly Cake.— 

Whites of 2 eggs beaten to a froth. 
1 cupful of vhite sugar. 
6 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

1 cup of sweet milk, 2| cupfuls of flour sifted with 

2 heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Bake in sheets or layers, flavor with lemon, and put together 
with lemon jelly. See recipe for Lemon Jelly Cake or others given 
at beginning of chapter. 
Lemon Layer Cake. — 

1 cupful of butter. 3 cupfuls of powdered sugar. 

Yolks of 5 eggs. Stir all to a cream. 

Juice and grated yellow rind of 1 lemon. 

3 cups of flour. ^ teaspoonful soda dissolved in 

1 cupful of milk. 

(No cream-tartar, the lemon furnishes the acid). 
Add the beaten whites of 4 eggs last of all. 
Bake in two layers and put together with the following icing: 
Eeserve 1 white of egg from the cake, add to it 1 teaspoonful of 
corn-starch, 9 of white sugar, and 1 of lemon-juice, put between 
the layers and over the top. This is good baked in a loaf and 
frosted. 

Orange Layer Cake. — 

Yolks of 5 eggs. Whites of 4 eggs. 

2 cups of sugar. ^ cupful of water. 
1 orange, juice and grated rind. 

1^ cupfuls of flour. 

1 heaping teaspoonful of baking powder. 
Bake in 4 cakes and put together with the following frosting : 

White of 1 egg. 1 cup of sugar. 

|- the juice and grated rind of 1 orange. 
Orange Cake (II). — Make a cake after the rule for plain 
Sponge Cake. Bake in a deep round pan. When cold, cut in 3 or 
4 layers, using a sharp knife. Peel and slice oranges in thin cir- 
cular slices, about 6 oranges will be needed. Put a layer of oran- 
ges on the first layer of cake, sprinkle with powdered sugar, then 
another layer of cake, then oranges and sugar until finished. Make 



CAKE. 267 

a soft icing and let it brown slightly in the oven. A tablespoon- 
fiil of orange-juice added to the cake-batter will be an improve- 
ment. 

Chocolate Cream Cake.— 
Yolks of 4 eggs, well- beaten. 

2 cupfuls of powdered sugar. 

1 cupful of sweet milk or half milk and water. 

1 cupful of butter. 3 cupfuls of flour sifted with 

^ teaspoonful of soda. 1 teaspoonful of cream-tartar. 

Lastly stir in the beaten whites of 4 eggs. 
Bake in 4 layers. Put together with the Chocolate Cream 
Filling. 

Chocolate Caramel Cake.— 

Whites of 6 eggs. 2 cupfuls of sugar. 

f cupful of butter. 1 cupful of milk. 

^ cupful of cornstarch. 2 cupfuls of flour. 

3 teaspooufuls of baking-powder. 

Bake in 2 flat shallow tins, and put together with the follow- 
ing caramel. 

Caramel. 
i pound of sugar. 2 squares of chocolate. (Ba- 

1 teaspoonful of butter. ker's). 

1 teaspoonful of vanilla. i cupful of water or milk. 
Stir, setting the dish in boiling water until stiff enough to 

spread. Set the cake in the oven to dry a short time. 
Chocolate Caramel Cake (II).— 

1^ cupfuls of white sugar. ^ cupful of butter beat in the 
f cupful of water. Yolks of 3 eggs. 

2 teaspoonful s of baking-powder, sifted with 

3 cupfuls of flour. 

Bake in layers and put together with the following caramel : 
Caramel. 

^ cupful of cream or milk. |- cupful of molasses. 

^ cupful of brown sugar. 1 heaping teaspoonful butter. 

Boil ten minutes and then add 

5 tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate. 
Boil until it thickens suitably to spread. When cold flavor 



268 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

with vanilla and spread between the layers of cake,and on top. Set 
in the oven to dry. 

Chocolate Layer Cake. — Take the rule for Feather Layer 
Cake. Bnke and put the layers together with chocolate frosting. 
Bake in jelly cake tins in 4 or 5 layers, or 2 shallow square tins, 
or in 1 large dripping-pan, cutting the cake in two, placing one 
half upon the other and frosting between, and on the top. 

Chocolate Ribbon Cake.— 

1 teacupful sugar. 1 cupful milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder sifted with 2 cupfuls of flour. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 1 egg. 

Mix in the usual manner. Divide the cake batter into two 
parts, and add 3 tablespoonful s of grated chocolate to ^ the batter 
for the dark part. This rule will make four layers, two of light 
and two of dark. Put together alternately with the following 
cream : 

1 cupful sweet milk, 1 egg. 

2 teaspoonfuls corn-starch or flour. 

3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls chocolate. 
Cook until it thickens and spread. Chocolate Frosting may 

be used instead. 

Cocoanut Cream Cake. — 

1 cupful sugar. ^ cupful butter. 

2 cupfuls flour sifted with 1 teaspoonful of baking powder. 
Whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff. ^ cupful water. 

Bake in layers and put together with the following cream 
filling: 

1 pint sugar. ^ cupful water. 

Boil until it thickens in water. Take the beaten whites of 3 
eggs, pour the syrup over them, stirring all the time. Flavor with 
vanilla. Stir until thick enough to spread. Frost each layer with 
this with cocoanut added. Frost the top and sides of the cake and 
sprinkle with cocoanut. Desiccated cocoanut may be used instead 
of the fresh. 

Cocoanut Layer Cake. — 

li cupfuls white sugar and|^ cupful butter creamed together. 

3 egg yolks beaten with this. | cupful water. 



CAKE. 269 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder sifted with 3 cupfuls of flour. 
Add the beaten whites of the 3 eggs. 
Bake in layers, and put together with chocolate icing, or 
chocolate frosting. A soft frosting with desiccated cocoanut may 
be used. Sjiriukle over each layer after frosting, and over the 
frosting on the top. Grated fresh cocoanut is more ornamental 
than the desiccated. 

Rolled Cream Cake. — 

1 cupful sugar. 1 tablespoonful butter . 

Ik cupfuls flour sifted with 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
1 egg. I cupfuls of milk. 

Bake in 1 large sheet in a well-buttered dripping pan. When 
done spread the underside of the cake with the Cream Filling. 11. 
Cut the sheet in strips four inches wide and roll carefully. Cut in 
slices from the end. 

Cream Layer Cake.— 

1 cupful sugar. ^ cupful butter. 

2 eggs. 1|- cupfuls flour. 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar in the flour. 
^ cupful cold water. 

I teaspoonful soda dissolved in the water. Flavor with vanilla, 
Bake in three or four layers. Put together with either of the 
Cream Fillings given at beginning of department. 

Custard Cake. - Use the rule for Feather Layer Cake. Flavor 
with almond extract. Bake in three or four layers, spreading 
between them the following custard: 

Custard. — 

2 cupfuls milk, when it boils add 2 heaping tablespoonfuls 
of corn-starch or flour, rubbed smooth in a little cold milk. 

2 eggs well-beaten. 1 cupful sugar. 

1 teaspoonful almond extract. 
Put the custard bet.. een the layers of cake while both are 
warm. Cook the custard by setting the dish in boiling water until 
it thickens. Add the flavoring last. 
Walnut Layer Cake.— 

1 cupful granulated sugar. ^ cupful sweet milk. 
Yolks of 3 eggs, whites of i. 1 teaspoonful cream-tartar. 
^ cupful butter. 



270 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

2 cupfuls flour sifted with i teaspoonful soda. 
Bake in three layers and put together with the following: 
Nut Filling. — 
1 capful granulated sugar. ^ cupful water. 
Boil together until stiff, not brittle, when tried in cold water. 
Beat the 2 whites of the eggs, remaining from the cake, to a froth. 
Turn on the boiling sugar. Beat hard until a cream. Mix 1 large 
cupful of chopped walnut meats with | of this cream, and spread 
between the layers. Spread the ^ remaining over the top and press 
into it, while moist, whole halves of the walnut meats for ornament. 
Hickory nuts may be substituted for walnuts. 

Ribbon Nut Cake. — White Part. — Make the rule given for 
Snowflake Cake, and bake in two square shallow tins. 

Nut Part. — 
I cupful sugar. ^ cupful butter. 

1 cupful flour. ^ cupful milk. 

1 teaspoonful baking powder. 

1 cupful hickory nut meats chopped and put in last. 
Bake in one square shallow tin. Put together with frosting, 
or icing, the nut part in the middle. 

Ribbon Cake.— 

2^ cupfuls sugar. 1 cupful butter. 

1 cupful sweet milk. 4 eggs. 

4 cupfuls flour. 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Eeserve ^ the mixture. Bake the rest in two sheets, adding 

to part reserved : 

1 cupful raisins. ^ cupful sliced citron. 

1 cupful currants. 2 tablespoonfuls molasses. 

1 teaspoonful mixed spices. 
Bake in one sheet. Put together with frosting, the dark sheet 
between the two white layers. 
Railroad Cake. — 

1^ cupfuls of white sugar creamed with ^ cupful butter. 

5 whites. of eggs. 

1 cupful sweet milk, or half of milk and water. 
3 cupfuls of flour sifted before measuring, and sifted again 
with 2 teaspoonfuls bakiugupwder. 



CAKE. . 271 

Divide the cake batter in two equal parts. Bake ^ in two 
layer cake tins. Divide the other half in two parts, and into one 
part stir ^ cupful hickory nut meats. Into the otlier stir 2 table- 
spoonfuls grated chocolate dissolved in a little hot milk and cooled 
before using. Bake each of these in a layer cake tin. To add still 
farther to the ornamental appearance of the cake, ^ cupful of seed- 
less raisins may be stirred into 1 of the white parts. Put together 
alternately light and dark. Use jelly or frosting for the filling; 
frost the top in either case. 

White Layer Cake. — Make the same cake batter as for Rail- 
road Cake. Bake in four layers. Spread between each layer a soft 
icing. This will be more ornamental if I tablespoonful of bright 
colored jelly is stirred into the^icing before using. Flavor the 
cake with any extract preferred. 

Ice Cream Cake. — 

8 eggs. 1 cupful sugar. 

2 cupful s flour. ^ cupful cold water. 

1| teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Flavor with 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Put tog&ther with icing flavored with vanilla, ici'hg the top as 
well. This may be made nicer to use the whites of 6 eggs instead. 

Ice Cake. — 

10 eggs. 3 cupfuls powdered sugar. 

2 cupfuls flour. 1 lemon rind grated, and juice. 

Beat whites and yolks separately. Add to the yolks and 7 of 
the whites, the sugar, lemon juice and flour. Bake in layer cake 
tins. Make the following frosting : 

Whites of 3 eggs beaten with 1 pound of sugar. Beat stiff 
Take out enough for the top of the cake and set aside. Add to the 
remainder the juice and ^ the grated yellow rind of an orange. 
When the cake is nearly cold spread this between the layers. Beat 
into the icing reserved for the top a little lemon juice and ^ cupful 
more powdered sugar and spread on. Delicious. 

Ribbon Fig Cake.— 

I cupful of butter. 2 cupfuls sugar. 

1 cupful of milk. 3 cupfuls flour. 

Whites of 6 eggs, or if eot too particular, 3 whole eggs may 



272 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

be used instead. 3 teaspoonfnls baking powder sifted with the 
dour. Divide the batter. To one-lialf add 1^ cupfuls chopped figs, 
and bake in two jelly cake tins. To the other half add: 

2 tablcspoonf uls mohisses. 1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 
1 teaspoonful nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful allspice. 

1 cupful raisins chopped. Bake in two jelly cake tins. 

Put together in altcruate 1 lyers of light and dark, using plain 
frosting. Almond Frosting is a very great addition. 

Fig Layer Cake. — Make any of the layer cakes given at the 
beginning of this article. Bake in 4 or 5 layers and put together 
with fig filling. White Cake is very nice to use. 
Raisin Layer Cake.— 

1 cupful sugar. i cupful butter. 

1^ cupfuls flour. 4 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful baking powder. 
1^ cupfuls raisins. 
Cream the butter and sugar. Add 2 eggs and the yolks of the 
other 2, the flour, baking powder, and the raisins previously well 
dredged with flour. Beat thoroughly and bake in 3 layers. Put 
frosting between, on the top and sides. Use the two reserved 
whites of eggs for this. See rules at beginning of chapter. 
Fruit Layer Cake.— 

1 cupful sugar creamed with k cupful butter. 

2 eggs. ^ cupful sweet milk. 

1^ cupfuls flour sifted with 1 teaspoonful baking powder. 
1 cupful raisins chopped. ^ cupful Zante Currants. 

1 teaspoonful each of cinnamon, nutmeg and allspice. 
Add the fruit last, dredging well with flour. Bake in 3 layers 

using frosting to put together when baked; frost top and sides. 

A variation that is very pretty is to make a rule of white 
cake choosing any one, Feather Cake or Snowflake Cake. Bake 
in jelly tins and alternate the black and white layers. This will 
be enough for two loaves. Put together with frosting as before. 

Spice Layer Cake.— 

2 cupfuls sugar creamed with 1 cupful of butter. 

1 cupful sweet milk. 5 eggs beaten separately. 

4 cupfuls flour sifted with 2 teaspoonfnls baking powder. 



CAKE. 273 

Mix the yolks, well-beaten, with the sugar, and add the stiffly 
whipped whites last of all. This would make a very nice loaf cake 
as it is, but for the layer cake divide the batter. Bake one-half in 
two layer tins, and to the other half add : 

1 cupful molasses. 

2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon. 

1 teaspoonful each nutmeg and allspice. 
^ teaspoonful each cloves and ginger. 
Bake in two layer cake tins and put together alternately light 
and dark, using any frosting or icing that may be preferred, icing 
the top as well. 

Prince of Wales Cake.— 

Black Part. — 
1 cupful brown sugar. ^ cupful butter. 

^ cupful sour milk. 

^ teaspoonful soda, dissolved in warm water. 
1 tablespoonful molasses. 2 cupfuls flour. 
1 cupful chopped raisins. Yolks of 3 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful each of cinnamon and nutmeg. 
Dredge the fruit before adding. Bake in two layers. 
White Part. — 

1 cupful flour. i cupful corn-starch. 
^ cupful sweet milk. Whites of 3 eggs. 

^ cupful butter creamed with 1 cupful of powdered sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder sifted in the flour. 

Bake in 2 layers. Put together dark and light alternately. 
Frost with almond icing. 

Banana Cake. — Make a rule of Feather Layer Cake. Make 
an icing of 2 whites of eggs, and 1^ cupfuls of sugar. Spread 
this over the layers, and cover thickly with bananas sliced thin. 
Place one layer upon tlie other, frosting the top. Rules for Icings, 
see beginning of department. 

Pineapple Cake. — Make as for Banana Cake. Bake in layers. 
Filling. — Grate a pineapple, sweeten to taste and spread between 
the layers. In warm weather cook the pineapple after grating to 
keep from spoiling. Frost the top. 

18 



274 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

MISGRIaLiANHOUS gakr. 

Sugar to be sprinkled over cookies is best dusted on the mold- 
ing-board and the dough rolled over it. 

Ingredients for cookies need not be creamed together as care- 
fully as for nice cake. Neither should the eggs be beaten sepa- 
rately. Read the hints for Cake Baking. 

Cookies (Eggless). — g- cupful of sweet milk. Dissolve in 
it ^ teaspoonful of soda, f teaspoonful of cream-tartar, sifted in 
part of the flour. 1 cupful sugar, | cupful butter. Flour to roll 
well and thin ; cut in squares ; brisk oven. Sour milk and soda 
may be used. Dripping may be substituted for butter. Flavor, 
or spice to suit. 

FaYorite Cookies.— 

2 eggs. 1 cupful of sour cream. 

3 cupfuls of sugar. ^ teaspoonful of soda. 
^ cupful of butter. - 1 nutmeg grated. 

Flour to roll. Sprinkle sugar over the top. Granulated is 
best. 

Vanilla Cookies.— 

1 cupful of butter. 2 cupfuls of sugar. 

^ cupful water. 2 eggs. 

1^ teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

1 large teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Flour to roll thin. 
Water Cookies. 

1 cupful of sugar. ^ cupful of butter. 

1 cupful of cold water. ^ teaspoonful of soda. 

1 teaspoonful of cream-tartar. 

Flour to roll. Spice to the taste. 

Cinnamon Cookies. — Make the same as Eggless Cookies, spic- 
ing with 2 teaspoonfuls of ground cinnamon. 

Lemon Cookies.— 

1 quart of flour. 1 cupful of butter. 

1 pint of sugar. 3 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful of soda dissolved in the juice of 1 lemon. 

2 tablespoonfuls of cold water. 
Grated yellow rind of the lemon. 



CAKE. 275 

Dutch Cookies.— 

^ pound of pulverized sugar. 

^ pound of butter, creamed together. 

6 eggs, beaten separately. 
Add the yolks first, then the whites beaten to a froth. 3 tea- 
spoonfuls of baking-powder sifted with part of the flour. Use 
enough flour to make a stiff dough. KoU and cut out. Beat 1 
egg, brush the top of each cooky with this, then strew sugar, cin- 
namon and shced almonds (previously scalded) over them. Ex- 
cellent to keep. The almonds may be omitted. 

Caraway Seed Cookies.— 
t 5 cupfuls of sifted flour. Eub into it 

1 cupful of butter. 3 cupfuls of powdered sugar. 

1 tablespoonful of caraway seeds. 

1 beaten egg. 

1 cupful of sour milk, dissolving in it ^ teaspoonful of soda. 

Flour enough to roll. Caraway seed may be used as flav- 
oring with some of the plainer varieties of cookies. 
Cream Cookies. — 

1 cupful of sour cream. 2 cupfuls of sugar. 

1 egg. 

^ teaspoonful of soda dissolved in the cream. Flavor to 
suit. Use flour enough to roll out. Have a little thicker than 
ordinary cookies. 
Fruit Cookies. 

2 cupfuls of sugar. 1 cupful of butter. 
2 cupfuls chopped raisins. 2 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls sour milk 2 tablespoonfuls of cinnamon. 

1 teaspoonful each of cloves and grated nutmeg. Flour to 
roll out. Bake same as other cookies. 
Spice Cookies. — 

^ cupful of lard. 1 cupful of buttermilk. 

1^ cupfuls of brown sugar. ^ teaspoonful of soda. 

Flour enough to roll out. 
• Spice with 1 teaspoonful each of grated nutmeg, ground 

allspice, mace and ginger, and 2 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon. Part 
of these spices or all of them can be used, according to taste or 



276 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

the condition of the spice-box. These are very nice frosted in the 
center. 

Frosted Cookies (Plain and good). — 

i- cupful of butter. 1 cupfid of sugar. 

2 eggs, omitting 1 white. 

1 cuptul of sweet milk and water, half and half. 

I" teaspoonful of soda. 1 teaspoonful of cream-tartar. 

Flavor with lemon extract. 
Flour to roll. Bake. When cool frost with the remaining white 
of an egg beaten to a froth and stirred stiff with 9 teaspooufuls of 
powdered sugar. 

Houey Cookies.— 

S^ pounds flour. 1^ pounds honey. 

^ pound butter. ^ pound sugar. 

1 nutmeg, grated. 1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 

1 teaspoonful ginger. 

Koll out thin and cut in small cakes. Bake in a quick oven. 
Let stand until moist. Will keep a long time. 
Cocoaniit Cookies.— 

2 cupfuls white sugar. 1 cupful butter. 

2 eggs. 1 cupful or more of cocoanut. 

1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 

Pinch of salt. " i cupful sweet milk. 

Flour to roU out. Fresh cocoanut grated may be used or 
the desiccated. 

Hickory-nut Cookies. — 

2 cupfuls sugar. | cupful of butter. 

2 eggs. 6 tablespoonfuls sweet milk. 

I" teaspoonful soda. 1 teaspoonful cream-tartar. 

1 cupful hickory nut-meats. 

Dissolve the soda in the milk, sift the cream-tartar through 
the flour. Mix all the ingredients, except the nuts, together with 
enough flour for a soft dough. Add the nuts last. Drop in spoon- 
fuls on a buttered pan, pat into shape and bake a light brown. 

Graham Cookies. — 

2 cupfuls sugar. 2 cupfuls sour cream. 
1 cupful fine flour. j teaspoonful soda. 



CAKE. 277 

1 egg. Pinch of salt. 

Graham flour sufficient to roll out soft as possible. 
New Tear's Cookies. 

1 pound white sugar, creamed with 
f pound butter. 3 beaten eggs. 

1 grated nutmeg. 1 pint flour. 

1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in 1 cupful milk and mixed 
with 1 cupful of cider. Stir all together, adding flour if necessary 
to roD. Bake iu a quick oven. 
Jambles (Delicious). — 

1 pound flour. 1 pound powdered sugar. 

Grated yellow rind of 1 lemon. 
Mix and add the yolks of 4 eggs, well-beaten. 
Whites of 4 eggs whipped to a foam. 
Beat up the whole with tablespoonfuls melted butter and 3 
tablespoonfuls cream. Drop the batter in rings or round cakes on 
baking tins and put the jumbles iu a slow oven for twenty minutes. 
Leave room for them to spread. 
Jnnibles (II).— 

1 cupful butter. 4 eggs. 

3 cupfuls sugar. ^ teaspoonful soda. 

Mix veiy soft with just flour enough to roll out. Cut in round 
cakes or in stnps 1^ inch wide, join together iu a ring, or cut with 
a large cake cutter, and cut a piece from the center with the top of 
a canister. 

Lemon Jumbles. — Make same as Jumbles (11), adding the 
juice and grated rind of 1 lemon. 
Almond Jumbles. — 

1 pound sugar. 1 cupful sour milk. 

^ pound flour. 5 eggs. 

^ pound butter. 2 tablespooufuls rose-water, 

f pound blanched almonds, chopped. 
1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in boiling water. 
Cream the butter and sugar. Stir in the beaten yolks, milk, 
flour, rose-water, almonds and beateu whites , Ughtly and quickly. 
Drop in rings or round cakes upon buttered paper and bake im- 
mediately. 



278 THRKE MEALS A DAY. 

CoCOanut Jumbles may be made in the same way. 
Hickory-nut or Walnut Jumbles.— Ditto. 

PRIB.D GAKRS. 

Fat for fried cakes, doughnuts, crullers, etc., should be kept 
at just the right temperature otherwise the cakes will soak fat. 

A PIECE OF DOUGH should bc dropped in to test it. If this 
rises to the top quickly and browns shortly it will be safe to put in 
the cakes. 

A MIXTURE of two-thirds lard and one-third beef suet is more 
wholesome, less expensive and less likely that the cakes will absorb 
too much fat; even a larger proportion of the suet may be used, 
half and half working nicely. All beef suet, however, will make 
the outside of the cakes rough and injure the flavor. 

Fried cakes shortened wdth butter are less likely to absorb fat 
than those shortened with lard. 

Beef suet should be bought in the leaf and carefully fried 
out before using. 

After using the fat for boiling doughnuts set away to cool; 
remove from the sediment. If very much scorched and brown 
clarify with a few slices of raw potatoes boiled in the lard. 

Care must be taken to keep the lard hot, but it must not 
burn, as it would spoil the cakes. Fry in a small iron pot, five 
or six at a time; turn with a fork; take out with a skimmer and 
lay on a colander to drain ; when suflSciently cool place in a stone 
pot. 

Raised Doughnuts or Nut Cakes.— Heat 1 pint of milk 
(sweet) or water, lukewarm; stir into it a cupful of melted lard, 
then flour until it is a thick batter and add one-half cake yeast. 
Set in a warm place to rise over night. In the morning work in 2 
cupfuls of sugar, 2 eggs beaten to a froth (these may be omitted), 
2 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon or a grated nutmeg and 1 of salt. 
Knead in flour sufficient to roll out. Keep in a warm place until 
risen again. Eoll out and cut in small cakes, strips and twists, 
or in diamonds. Let rise fifteen or twenty minutes before frying. 
If wished very nice dip in powdered white sugar as soon as fried. 



CAKE. 279 

Soda Doilghnnts (No Shortening).— 

1 quart of flour sifted with 1^ teaspoonfuls soda and 

3 teaspoonfuls cream-tartar. 

1 cup sugar. ^ teaspoonful salt. 

1 teasj)Oonful mixed cinnamon and nutmeg. 

Mix with enough sweet milk to roll out. Cut in round cakes 
for ring doughnuts. Cut out the center and fry; 3 teaspoonfuls 
baking powder may be used instead of cream-tartar and soda. 

Cream Doiighuuts. — 

2 cupfuls sour cream. 1 teaspoonfid soda. 
1^ cupfuls sugar. 2 eggs. 

Pinch salt. Flour to roll out. 

Eggs may be omitted. Sweet cream may be used instead of 
sour, substituting 3 teaspoonfuls baking-powder for soda, or ad- 
ding 2 teaspoonfuls of cream- tartar. 

Doughnuts.— 

2 cupfuls buttei-milk. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

1 cupful sugar (scant). 

3 tablespoonfuls butter, melted. 
Pinch of salt. 1 egg. 

The egg may be omitted. Flour to roll out. Cinnamon to 
flavor or nutmeg. This recipe may be varied by using 1 cupful of 
water or sweet milk, and adding 1^ teaspoonfuls cream-tartar, or 
substitute for this 2 heaping teaspoonfuls baking-powder. Melt 
the shortening before using. 

Grahaui Doughuuts. — Make after the above recipe for 
Doughnuts, substituting Graham for wheat flour. 

Indiau-meal Doughnuts.— 

1^ cupfuls boiling sweet milk poured over 

2 cupfiils of Indian-meal. When cool add 

2 cupfuls wheat flour. 1^ cupfuls sugar. 

3 teaspoonfuls baking-powder. | teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon or grated nutmeg, if liked. 

1 egg is a gi-eat addition, but can be omitted. 
If not quite thick enough add Indian-meal and flour in equal 
parts. Koll one-half inch thick. Cut in small diamond-shaped 
cakes and fry in hot lard. 



28o THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Qaick Doughnuts. — Take any favorite recipe for doughnuts 
and mix stiff as possible by stirring. Drop from a spoon into hot 
lard and fry. Dip the spoon in lard occasionally and they will 
not stick. 

Fried Cakes.— 

1 pint buttermilk. 4 tablespoonfuls melted lard. 

^ teaspoonful salt. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

1 egg. 
Flavor with nutmeg or cinnamon. No sweetening. Nice to 
serve with coffee winter mornings. Use flour enough to roU out 
and fry in hot lard. Cut in any form desired. 
Snow Balls.— 

1 cupful sugar. 2 eggs. 

4 tablespoonfuls sweet milk. Spice. 
^ teaspoonful soda. f teaspoonful cream-tartar. 

Flour to roll in balls. Fry in hot lard. Dip in the partly 
beaten white of an egg, and roll in powdered sugar until perfectly 
white. Very nice for a children's party. 
Crullers.— 

3 eggs. 1 cupful sugar. 

Butter size of an egg. 1 cupful sweet milk. 

3 teaspoonfuls of baking powder sifted with flour enough 
to mix stiff. Pinch of salt. 

Roll rather thin. Cut in strips with a pie marker or wheel, 
and twist in diamonds or any other fancy shape. They are very 
nice rolled in white sugar while hot. They keep some time, and 
may be warmed in the oven a few minutes before serving. 

Vanities. — Beat 1 egg light. Season with a pinch of salt. 
Add flour, until they can be rolled thin as a wafer, like noodles. 
Roll out a bit of dough like paper, fry in hot lard, or cut in strips 
and roll around the finger like a shaving, and fry. They will cook 
in a few seconds. 
Love Knots.— 

1 egg. 4 tablespoonfuls sweet cream. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. Pinch of salt. 

Flour to knead very hard. Roll out. Cut in narrow strips. 
Tie each one in two or three knots and fry in hot lard. Sprinkle 
with white sugar, while hot. 



CAKE. 281 

PANGY GAKB.S. 

Hermits.— 

8 eggs. lA cupfuls of brown sugar. 

1 cupful butter. 1 cupful chopped raisins. 

2 tablespoonfuls of mixed spices. 
Flour to roll. Cut out like cookies. 
Love Cakes.— 

3 eggs. 6 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
6 heaping tablespoonfuls flour. 

Pinch of salt. 
Flavor with rose-water, or mace. Drop on buttsred tins by the 
spoonful, two inches apart. Sprinkle thickly with white sugar 
before baking. Nice among mixed cakes for company. 
Snow Drops. — 

1 cupful butter. 2 cupfuls sugar. 

"Whites of 5 eggs. 1 teacupful sweet milk. 

3 cupfuls flour. ^ teaspoonful soda. 

^ tesspoonful of cream-tartar. 
Flavor with vanilla. Bake in gem pans, or small round fluted 
tins. Nice with ice-cream. 
Sponge Drops.— 

3 eggs beaten with 1 cupful sugar. 

1 heaping cupful flour sifted with 1 teaupoonful cream-tartar 
and ^ teaspoonful soda. 

Flavor with lemon. Cover a dripping pan with buttered paper; 
drop in spoonfuls three inches apart. Serve with ice-cream. 
Sweet Wafers.— 

6 eggs. 1 pint flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

1 cupful milk. li cupfuls powdered sugar. 

1 teaspoonful nutmeg. 
Beat whites and yolks separately. Rub the butter and sugar 
together, and work in first the yolks, then the milk, then the flour 
and whites. Bake quickly as possili'(> in well buttered wafer irons, 
browning as little as possible. They may be spread in thin cakes 
upon a buttered dripping paa in the absence of wafer irons. Roll 



^82 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

them while hot upon a small smooth round stick. Slip this out 
carefully when the cake takes the right shape. Powder with white 
sugar. They bake quickly and must be rolled as soon as baked. 
They are very nice with mixed cakes, and look well among fancy 
cakes in a basket. Flavor to taste. 
Horns of Plenty.— 

2 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. 
1 tablespoonful (heaping) flour, 
legg. 

Beat thoroughly with an egg beater until air bubbles rise all 
through it. Have the pan warmed and buttered. Take a teaspoon- 
f ul at a time. Spread out. Bake quickly ; five minutes ought to be 
sufficient. Carefully roll them into horns or cones. They must 
not dry on the edges or they will not roll. When cold fill with 
whipped cream, chocolate filling or any kind of jelly. 

Cornucopias. — 

3 eggs. 1 cupful sugar. 

1 cupful flour. 2 tablespoonfuls cold water. 

Beat well together. Put 1 tablespoonful of the mixture in 
buttered tins six inches across and one inch deep. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven. While hot lap the edges together to form a cornucopia 
and hold in shape until cool. This recipe will make 12. Fill with 
the following cream: 
Ckeam. — 

1 cupful cream. ^ cupful sugar. 

White of 1 egg beaten. 
Flavor to suit. Beat all to a foam, or use Chocolate Filling. 
Chocolate Finger Cakes. — Take any recipe for sponge cake. 
Drop the batter on a buttered pan, 1 spoonful at a time. Form 
each one long and narrow and do not let them touch. A better 
way is to squeeze the batter through a cone of writing paper with 
a little of the end cut off. Put the flat sides together by pairs. 
Spread between them the following filling: 

Filling. — 

1 square Baker's chocolate. | cupful sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls hot water. 1 egg. 

Dissolve the chocolate in the hot water. Add the sugar and 



CAKE. 283 

egg well beaten. Set on the stove to thicken; spread while warm. 
Nice for a party. Very nice with ice-cream. 
Lady Fingers.— 

f cupful sugar. Yolks of 4 eggs. 

Beat until perfectly smooth. "Whisk the whites of the eggs 
and add; sift in | cupful of flour. Flavor with lemon. Put but- 
tered paper in a dripping-pan. Koll the paste out lightly on a 
baking-board thickly sprinkled with sugar. Cut in narrow strips 
four inches long, bake quickly ; if not stiff enough to roll add more 
flour. Or, by omitting some of the flour, the resulting batter can 
be pressed through a funnel of writing-paper in long narrow cakes, 
leavmg room for them to spread. These are nice for Charlotte 
Russe. For tea put together in pairs, pressing the flat surfaces 
together. A little jelly may be spread between. 
Tea Cakes.— 

^ cupful butter. 1 cupful sugar. 

^ cupful sour milk. ^ teaspoonful soda. 

1 egg, if convenient. Flavor or spice to suit. 

Flour sufficient to roll out. Cut with a large-sized cutter in 
cakes, f inch thick. Bake. Serve warm. If in haste, stir up 
with flour to the thickness of Graham Gems and bake in gem- 
irons or muffin-rings. Set in a buttered dripping-pan. 

QINGRR GAKRS. 

The grated yellow rind and juice of an orange add much to 
the flavor of ginger cake. 

New Orleans molasses is the best to use. Bear in mind that 
good cake cannot be made with poor molasses. Syrup should not 
be used. 

The oven should be kept at a moderately steady heat, as mo- 
lasses causes a cake to brown quickly. 

Yolks of eggs, where the whites have been used for other 
purposes, can be utilized in gingerbread ; 2 yolks will equal 1 whole 
egg. Even where the rule does not call for eggs the addition of 1, 
2 or more yolks is always an improvement. The yolks will keep 
several days in a cool place. 

Fruit, raisins, etc., is an addition to gingerbread and cookies. 



284 THRE^ MEALS A DAY. 

Ginger, if not liked, may be modified by the addition of other 
spices, or entirely omitted, and its place supplied by various spices, 
cinnamon, allspice, 2 or 3 teaspoonfuls of finely ground coffee, etc. 

Ginger Poiiiid Cake.— 

3 pounds flour. 1 dozen eggs. 

1 pound butter. ^ cupful ground ginger. 

1 pint molasses. 1 teaspoonful of soda. 

1 pound sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls cream-tartar. 

^ teaspoonful salt. 
Cream the butter, beat the eggs separately. To the yolks of 
eggs add sugar, then butter and molasses alternately; add the flour 
sifted with cream -tartar, and the beaten whites of the eggs. Finally 
pour over the soda a cupful of boiling water to dissolve, and turn 
it in. Beat once more and bake in a moderate oven. This will 
keep a long time. The ginger may be modified by the addition of 
other spices (see rules above), and fruit, raisins, etc., may be added. 
Apple Gingerbread.— 

1 pint molasses. 1 pint rich buttermilk. 

f cupful shortening. 2 eggs. 

1 quart raw sweet apples, pared and cut in long thin slips. 

2 teaspoonfuls soda. 1 teaspoonful of ginger and 
Flour to make a smooth stiff same of cassia. 

batter. h; teaspoonful salt. 

This will make three loaves of good cake. The sweet apple 
resembling slices of citron and adding much to the taste of the 
cake. 

Sponge Gingerbread.— 

1 cupful sugar. 1 cupful of molasses. 

1 cupful butter, or butter and lard. 
1 cupful of sour milk. 

4 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. 
1 cupful of raisins, if wished. 

4 cupfuls of flour. 1 tablespoonful ginger. 

1 teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in the milk. 
^ teaspoonful salt. 
In place of sour milk and soda, sweet milk and baking-powder 
or cream-tartar and soda may be iised. 



CAKE. 285 

Honey Gingerbread. — 

1^ cupfuls of honey. 1 heaping table spoonful butter. 

^ cupful of warm water. 1 tablespoonful of ginger. 

2^ cupfuls of flour. Pinch of salt. 

Layer Ginger Cake.— 

1 cupful of molasses. 1 cupful of boiling water with 

2 egg yolks. | teaspoonful of soda dis- 
Flour to make a stiff batter. solved in it. 

1 teaspoonful of ginger. 1 teaspoonful of cinnamon. 
^ teaspoonful each of cloves and allspice. 

Butter size of an egg. 

Bake in layers, put together with frosting made of the whites 
of the 2 eggs, frost on top. Do this when the cake is quite cold. 
Yellow or gilt-edged frosting may be used instead, if so, put the 
whites of the eggs in the cake and use the yolks for the frosting. 

Frnit Gingerbread.— 

2 pounds of flour. | pound of butter. 

1 pound of coffee sugar. 1 pound of raisins. 

2 cupfuls of molasses, 1 pound of currants. 
^ cupful of sour cream or milk. 

6 eggs. 1 teasponful of soda. 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 2 tablespoonfuls of ginger. 

1 teaspoonful of cloves. 

Cream the butter and sugar, warm the molasses and add them 
together with the beaten yolks, then the soda dissolved in the 
milk, the flour, spice and lastly the beaten whites. Dredge the 
fruit with flour and add, beating all together well. Bake in 2 
loaves. This cake will keep a long time. 

Spice Gingerbread. — 

2 cupfuls of molasses. 

1 cupful of shortening, half lard and half butter. 

1 cupful of hot water; dissolve in this 

2 teaspoonfuls of soda. 1 egg, (2 would be better). 
1 teaspoonful each of ginger, allspice and cloves. 

1 tablespoonful each of finely ground coffee and cinnamon. 
1 nutmeg, ground. 1 teaspoonful of salt. 

Stir the spices, molasses and melted shortening together, turn 



286 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

in the hot water and soda; stir until it foams, put in part of the 
flour, then add the egg well beaten. Use flour enough to make a 
stiff batter. This will make 2 loaves. Bake in a steady, moderate 
oven. Will keep a long time. 

Baker's Hard Gingerbread.— 

1^ cupfuls of sugar. ^ cupful of shortening. 

1 cupful of water, or sweet milk and water. 

1 teaspoonful of soda, sifted with part of the flour. 

1 teaspoonful of ginger. 1 tablespoonful of cinnamon. 



teaspoonful of powdered mace. 



1 tablespoonful of lemon juice. 

Melt the shortening. Use flour enough to roll out as soft as 
it can be handled. Bake in a dripping-pan and mark off with a 
knife in strips. 

Hard Gingerbread. - 

2 cupfuls of molasses. 1 cupful of shortening. 
2 eggs. Pinch of salt. 

1 cupful of boiling water poured over. 

2 teaspooufuls of soda. 1 tablespoonful of ginger. 
1 teaspoonful cinnamon. ^ teaspoonful of cloves. 

Ginger may be used alone, if preferred. Mix according to 

rule given for Spice Gingerbread. Flour enough to roll out, ^ 

inch is thick enough. Bake in a quick oven. Mark off in strips 

or squares before baking; ^ this rule is enough for a small family. 

Cream Gingerbread (Soft).— 

1 cupful of molasses. 1 cupful of sour cream. 

1 egg. 1 teaspoonful of soda. 

1 tablespoonful of ginger. 2^ cupfuls of flour. 
Pinch of salt. 
If ginger is not liked, substitute other spices. 
Sorghum Cake.— 

1 cupful of sorghum molasses. 

2 eggs. 1 cupful of sugar. 

^ cupful of melted lard. 1 cupful of sweet mills. 

3 cupfuls of flour, before sifting. 

1 tablespoonful each of soda and ginger. 
Stir Boda with flour. 



CAKE. 287 

Soft Molasses Cake.— 

^ cupful of butter. 1 cupful of molasses. 

^ cupful of warm water. 2^ cupfuls of flour. 

1 egg. 1 teaspoonful of soda. 

Pinch of salt. 

Juice of 1 lemon and grated rind. 
Bake in a loaf. This is very nice baked in patty-pans or gem 
irons. The lemon may be omitted. 
Soft Gingerbread, (Egoless).— 

1^ cupfuls of molasses. i cupfid of melted shortening. 

1 level teaspoonful of salt. 

2| cupfuls of flour. 1 teaspoonful of ginger. 

I cupful cold water poured over 

1^ teaspoonfuls of soda. 

1 teaspoonful of vinegar or lemon juice may be mixed with 
the molasses. 
This makes 2 loaves. Half the rule will answer for a small 
fanuly. 

Molasses Cookies.— 

1 cupful New Orleans molasses. 

^ cupful sugar. ^ cupful lard. 

Pinch of salt. ^ cupful sweet milk. 

1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 

1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in the milk. 
Set the pan over a kettle of boihng water, and stir until it 
foams, then add enough flour to roll out. Mix very soft, and roll 
out ^ inch thick. 

Molasses Cookies (II).— 

1 cupful New Orleans molasses. 

^ cupful lard. 

I cupful boihng water poured over 1 heaping teaspoonful of 
soda. Pinch of salt. 

Mix with flour soft as possible and roll out. 
Molasses Cookies (III).— 

1 quart molasses. 1 tablespoonful soda. 

1 pint sour milk or buttermilk. 

I cupful lard. ^ teaspoonful salt. 



288 



THREE MEALS A DAY. 



Stir in flour till it is thick enough to roll. Bake bo as to 
be soft to the touch. 1 tablespoouful of cinnamon may be used if 
liked. 

Ginger Cookies. — Make after any rule given for molasses 
cookies and add 1 tablespoonful ginger. 
Baker's Ginger Cookies.— 

1 cupful molasses, scald and stir into it 
1 teaspoonful soda, while foaming pour over 1 cupful sugar. 
Add pinch of salt. 1 egg. 

1 tablespoonful ginger. 1 tablespoonful vinegar. 

Beat all together. Use flour enough to roll out as soft as 
possible. 

Boston Ginger Snaps.— 
1 cupful of sugar. 
1 cupful of molasses. 
Pour into a dish and add while hot, 
1 cupful melted butter. 1 cupful milk or water. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 1 tablespoonful ginger. 

Pinch of salt. 
Flour to roll. Roll very thin. 
be rolled out. 

Ginger Snaps (II).— 
1 cupful molasses. 



boil together. 



They should be stiff as can 



I cupful shortening. 



1 teaspoonful soda. 
1 tablespoonful vinegar. 
1 egg. 1 tablespoonful ginger. 

Make stiff with flour. Roll thin as possible. Cut out with 
common cutter. Or to make like those at the confectioners. Pinch 
off a piece at a time as large as a marble. Eoll in the hands. 
Place in the buttered pan leaving room to flatten. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven to a nice brown. Leave in the pan until cool enough 
to snap. 




F^BBIJ^QB. 



t^^XUDDINGS may be either steamed, boiled or baked. 

m,^ Steaming or boiling will take twice as long as baking. 
»^ » The best cloth to tie up a boiled pudding, is a piece of 

unbleached shirting. 

Pudding-molds or basins should be well rubbed over in the 
inside with butter. 

Bread puddings should be tied very loosely to allow them to 
expand. 

Puddings boiled in a cloth should be moved occasionally to 
prevent adhering to the kettle. 

An inverted plate or saucer should be placed in the bottom 
of the kettle to prevent adhering or burning. 

Puddings boiled in a cloth should be kept covered with con- 
stantly boiling water; boiled in a mold, the water should not 
quite reach the top of the mold. 

Always keep boiling water at hand to replenish the kettle if 
needed. 

Flour should be spread on the inside of each tying-place to 
prevent water getting in. 

Puddings boiled in a basin should have a cloth wrung out 
of hot water and dredged with flour, tied closely over the top of 
the basin. 

Puddings boiled in a cloth, basin or mold, when done, should 
be plunged suddenly into cold water and turned out instantly ; this 
will prevent sticking ; and dnmplings, i. e., boiled or steamed 
should be served at once. If this is an impossibility cover with 
the cloth in which they were boiled and serve as quickly as possible. 

Baked puddings should not have the fruit put in until the 

19 (289) 



290 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

pudding has begun to thicken in the oven. Otherwise it will sink 
to the bottom of the dish. 

Sauces mentioned in the following recipes will all be found 
in this department. 

Puddings boiled in a mold or a pudding-dish do not need as 
stiff a batter as those boiled in a cloth. 

Silver-plated pudding dishes will be found a great advantage 
as well as a pleasing addition to the table. They come in various 
sizes and are supplied with a fire-proof porcelain inside dish, iu 
which the pudding is baked. With two or three of these inside 
dishes a green corn pudding or a scallop may appear in one of the 
earlier course in the silver dish, to be exchanged at dessert for the 
pudding itself baked in another of the china inside dishes, and 
placed as before in the silver dish. Pie-plates come in the same 
material, and can have any ordinary tin pie-plate fitted into 
them. 

Old English Plum Fuddiug. — To make what is called a 
pound pudding take 

1 pound of raisins, stoned. 
1 pound of Zante currants, washed and dried. 
1 pound finely chopped suet. 
1 pound grated stale bread. 
Mix these ingredients and add : 

1 pound sugar. 1 pound flour. 

1 quart of milk. 6 eggs, well-beaten. 

1 blade of mace. ^ nutmeg, grated. 

1 quart of milk. 1 pound blanched almonds. 

Citron, shredded, and candied orange and lemon peel may be 
added to enrich it, but are not absolutely necessary. Sultana 
raisins may also be added, but the rule given above without these 
extra ingredients will be found very nice. A wineglassful of rose- 
water will be found an addition. 

Beat tbe eggs, mix with the milk and add after the other arti- 
cles are mixed together. 

If the milk should be found hardly enough to moisten the 
pudding sufficiently, add a very little more. 

Put in a cloth, tying firmly and allowing room for the pudding 



PUDDINGS. 291 

to swell. Boil eight to ten hours, never allowing the water to 
cease boiling. 

A better way is to divide the rule. The pudding may also be 

boiled in 1 large or several small basins with floured cloths tied 

over the tops. There is not so much loss of sweetness in this case. 

Serve hot with Vanilla Sauce or Hard Sauce. May be kept 

tied up for months ; when wanted, boil one hour. 

Plum puddings of all kinds may be boiled four or five hours 
the day before using, hung up in the cloth, and finished boiling 
the next day in time to serve hot. 
Farmers' Plum Pudding. — 

3 cupfuls flour. 1 cupful sweet milk. 

1 cupful molasses, slightly warmed. 
1 pound chopped raisins. 
1 teaspoonful mixed cinnamon and mace. 
1 saltspoonful ginger. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water. 
^ cupful suet, powdered. 
Beat suet and molasses to a cream, add the spice, salt and 
two-thirds of the milk, stir iu the flour, beat hard, add the rest of 
the milk with soda. Beat vigorously a moment or two and put in 
the fruit well dredged with flour. Boil in a buttered mold or a 
cloth for four hours. Serve hot with the same sauce as above. 
Yankee Plum Pudding. — 

1 quart sour cream or milk. 

2 eggs. 1 tablespoonful sugar. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 1 small cupful raisins. 

Thicken into a stiff batter with half flour and half corn-meal. 
Steam two hours. Eat with sweet cream or some hot plain pud- 
ding sauce. 

Rich Rice Pudding. — Boil half a pound of rice in slightly 
salted water until tender. Drain, mix with 4 eggs beaten sep- 
arately, ^ pint thick sweet cream with 2 tablespoonfuls butter 
melted in it. 

1 cupful sugar. ^ nutmeg, grated. 

2 tablespoon fuls rose-water. 

^ pound of raisins or Zante currants. 



292 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

1 handful shredded citron. 

Bake one hour iu a moderate oven. Serve with hard sauce. 
The fruit may be omitted. Sprinkle the top of the pudding thickly 
with white sugar and dashes of cinnamon before sending to the 
table. 

Baked Rice Pudding (Without Eggs).— 
Put 2 small teacupfuls of rice in 

2 quarts of milk slightly salted. 

2 tablesj)oonfuls of butter, melted. 
1 cupful sugar. 1 grated nutmeg. 

Add when it has been baking ten minutes — 

^ pound raisins seeded or i pound currants. 
Fruit may be omitted. Bake slowly. This pudding does not 
need any sauce and is good hot or cold. 
Rice Pudding (With Eggs).— 

1 quart new milk. Water may be substituted. 

1 cupful seeded raisins. | cupful rice. 

Keep hot in a saucepan on the back of the stove two hours or 
imtil the rice softens. 
1 quart milk. 

1 cupful sugar. 2 eggs beaten separately. 

1 tablespoonful butter. Pinch of salt. 

Mix carefully so as not to break the rice and bake one-half or 
three-quarters of an hour in a buttered pudding dish. Serve with 
butter and sugar, Hard Sauce or Vanilla Sauce. 

Boiled Rice Pudding. — Make as above and set the pudding 
dish on the stove, letting the ingredients boil until the fruit is soft. 
Serve the same sauces. 

Plain Rice Pudding.— 

1 quart milk. ^ teacupful rice. 

Boil together slowly, stirring occasionally. Twenty minutes 
before serving add 1 tablespoonful sugar and a small piece of 
butter and bake twenty minutes. This is wholesome and palatable 
and suitable for convalescents. Sliced tart apples may be stirred 
in the pudding before baking if desired. 

Rice Peacll Pudding. — To each cupful of boiled rice stir 1 
tablespoonful butter, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 egg. Butter a pud- 



PUDDINGS. 293 

ding dish, put in a layer of the seasoned rice one-half inch thick, 
then a layer of pared and sliced peaches. Sprinkle with sugar and 
rice alternately until the dish is full. Bake twenty minutes. Have 
rice for the last layer. Turn out and serve with vanilla, cream or 
any other pudding sauce, or cream and sugar. Canned peaches 
may be used instead of fi-esh. 

Rice Apple Pudding. — Make the same way, substituting 
layers of very nice smooth apple sauce for the fresh peaches. 

Plain Bread Padding. — Crumb enough stale bread to fill 
two cups. Pour over them 1 quart of boihng milk. When cold 
and the bread is thoroughly softened add 1 beaten eg^, ^ teaspoon - 
ful salt, 3 teaspoonfuls sugar; and, if wished, ^ cupful of raisins. 
Bake three-quarters of an hour-. This may be tied up in a cloth 
and boiled. Serve with some plain sauce. 

Boiled Bread Pudding.— 

1 pound of bread cut in pieces and soaked soft in cold 

water. 
Kub fine and mix with it — 

2 table spoonfuls flour. 3 eggs. 
1 tablespoonful melted butter. 

^ teaspoonful salt and cold milk sufficient to make a thick 
batter. 
Mix well and turn into a flom-ed pudding bag. Leave room 
for it to swell, not too much or it will fall out of shape. Boil one 
and one-half hours. Serve with rich sauce. If wished, 1 cupful 
of raisins may be added to the pudding. 
Meringue Bread Pudding. — 

1 pint fine bread-crumbs. ^ pound powdered sugar. 
4 egg yolks well-beaten, 1 white. 

Grated yellow rind of 1 lemon. 
Butter the size of an egg. 
1 quart of milk. Bake one horn-. 

Beat the 8 whites of egg with -4 tablespoonfuls powdered 
sugar and the juice of the lemon. Spread a layer of currant jelly 
over the pudding after it is baked. Pour the beaten whites over 
this. Place again in the oven and brown dehcately. Serve cold 
with cream. 



294 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Danish Tapioca Pudding.— 

1 cupful tapioca. 3 pints water. 

^ cupful sugar. ^ teaspoonful salt. 

1 glassful of any bright colored jelly. 
Wash the tapioca and soak over night in the 3 j)ints of water. 
In the morning cook carefully. A double boiler or a pail set in 
a kettle of boiling water is the safest plan. Cook one hour, stir- 
ring frequently. Add the salt, sugar and jelly and mix thoroughly. 
Turn in a mold that has been dipped in cold water and set away to 
harden. Serve with cream and sugar. 
Tapioca Pudding (Delicious). — 

1 cupful of tapioca washed and simmered two hours in 

3 pints of milk. 1 quart of cold milk. 

3 yolks of eggs well-beaten. 

1 cupful sugar. A pinch of salt. 

1 teaspoonful butter. | cupful of raisins. 

1 teaspoonful essence of lemon. 
Beat the whites, add 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, spread over 
the top of the pudding, set in the oven to lightly brown. Vanilla 
may be used instead of lemon extract. No sauce ; ^ cupful cocoa- 
nut, desiccated, may be stirred in the pudding. Great improve- 
ment. Taj)ioca pudding may be baked in one crust hke an apple 
pudding. This is a nice way, as it gives more substance to the 
dish. 

Tapioca Pudding (Plain).— 3 tablespoonfuls of pearl tapioca 
to 1 quart of new or skim milk. Boil one hour in a double boiler, 
or in a pail set in a kettle of boiling water. Stir frequently. Take 
from the stove and turn in the pudding dish, then add the yolk of 
I egg, ^ cupful of sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls will answer if not Hked 
sweet, 1 teaspoonful vanilla extract. Bake one hour. Take from 
the oven and let cool. Spread the white of egg beaten to a froth 
with 1 teaspoonful sugar over the toj). Return to the oven to 
brown. This frosting may bo dispensed with, and the entire egg 
beaten and stirred into the pudding. May be served hot or cold. 
If for a convalescent the egg may be dispensed with entirely, the 
sweetening reduced in quantity and the pudding served with sweet 
cream or rich milk, a little bit of stick cinnamon, orange or lemon 



PUDDINGS. ' 295 

peel boiled with the milk, will give an agreeable flavor. This 
pudding may be boiled on top of the stove instead of baked. 

Peach Tapioca Puddius^. — Wash i pint of tapioca. Pour 

over it a quart of boiling water, use a double boiler or cook in a 

pail set in a kettle of boiling water. Cook one-half hour. Take 

a can of peaches. Drain. Put in a pudding dish and season with 

1 cupful white sugar. 1 tablespoonful butter. 

Half a nutmeg, and the grated yellow of a lemon. 

Pour the tapioca over the fruit. Bake to a delicate brown, 
and serve hot or cold with cream or foaming sauce. Fresh peaches 
may be used; pare and quarter. 1 dozen will be enough. Bake 
three-quarters of an hour. If the fruit is fresh do not brown the 
top too much. 

Apple Tapioca Pudding.— 

1 cupful tapioca soaTied two hours in 1 quart of water. 
6 apples pared and cored. 

Put in a pudding dish with 1 cupful of water. Cook on the 
top of the stove until the apples are quite tender, then fill all the 
openings with sugar, over which grate nutmeg and lemon peel. 
Pour over the tapioca and bake one hour. To be eaten with hard 
sauce or cream sauce, or cream and sugar. Very nice. 

Tapioca Fruit Pudding. — Make as above, and in place of 
apples stir in 1 pint of preserved raspberries, strawberries, or 
canned peaches. 

Tapioca Cup Pudding.— Make tapioca after either of the 
first three rules given, and bake in cups fifteen minutes. Set the 
cups in a dripping pan half full of water. Dip them in cold water 
before filling. Turn out and serve in sauce of any kind. Very nice 
dish. For variety fill each cup ^ full of preserves, peach is nice, 
and pour the tapioca over this and bake as before. 

Baked Indian Pudding.— 1 pint of Lidian meal stirred into 
a quart of boiling milk. Let cool. Add 3 tablespoonfuls wheat 
flour mixed with 1 pint of cold milk. Stir aU together. When 
the whole is lukewarm beat in 

3 eggs. f cupful of sugar. 

1 teaspoonful each of salt, cinnamon, nutmeg and allspice. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 



296 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

2 tablespoonfuls of molasses. 

Half a teacupful of the milk may be reserved, and after the 
pudding has been poured in a buttered dish, turn this half cup 
over it cold. This will help the jelly to form. Bake three or four 
hours. Sweetened cream may be used for sauce. The eggs may 
be reduced in number, and i cupful more corn-meal added to take 
the place of 1 egg. 1 soda cracker, rolled, may be substituted ior 
the wheat flour. 

Indian Pudding with Fruit. — Make as above using ^ the 
quantity of meal only, as the raisins absorb a great deal of mUk. 
Add 1 cupful raisins stoned. Bake as above. 

Indian Pudding witliout Eggs. — l quart of boiling milk, 
sift in 1 handful of wheat flom- and meal enough to make a thick 
batter. Before this mixture is quite cold, add: 

1 cupful molasses. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful of ginger. 1 teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

Kemove from the stove and add 2 quarts of cold milk, 1 cupful 
of raisins if wished. Bake three hours. Serve with sweetened 
cream. 

Delmonico Indian Pudding. — 
1 quart cold milk. 

3 tablespoonfuls white corn- meal stirred in the milk. 
5 yolks of eggs. 6 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

Boil three or four minutes. Pour into a pudding dish and 
bake one-half hour. Beat the whites of the eggs with 6 table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. Pour this over the top and return the pudding 
to the oven until the frosting is delicately browned. Very pood 
cold. 

Apple Indian Pudding. — 1 quart of sweet milk scalded, and 
turned over 14 level tablespoonfuls of Indian meal. When cool 
add a quart of cold milk and 1 heaping cupful of chopped I'resh 
apples, or dried apples soaked overnight and chopped; add f cupful 
of molasses or sugar and a teaspoonful of salt. Spice with 
cinnamon or nutmeg. Bake 1 hour. Serve with sweetened cream. 

Boiled Indian Pudding.— l quart boiling milk, or water, 
poured over enough sifted Indian meal to make a very stiff batter. 
1 cupful chopped beef suet. 2 tablespoonfuls flour. 



PUDDINGS. ,297 

1 cupful molasses, or brown sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls ginger, or 2 of cinnamon. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

Boil in a bag or steam four hours. The suet may be omitted, 
and 2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter used in its stead. Raisins 
or dried cherries may be stirred in as an improvement. Serve with 
sugar and cream, or a pudding sauce. 

Boiled Indian Pudding (II).— 

2 eggs well-beaten. 1^ cupfuls sour milk. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 

1 small teaspoonful of soda dissolved in the milk. 

Sift in dry corn-meal until a little thicker than griddle cakes. 
Stir in a cupful of raisins or dried cherries. Put in a bag and boil 
one hour. Serve with sweetened cream flavored with nutmeg. 

Cherry Batter Pudding.— 

2 cupfuls of sweet milk. 2 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful of melted butter. 
^ teaspoonful of salt. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 
Flour for batter. 

Into this stir as many canned, dried or fresh cherries as 
can be afforded. 
Steam one hour and serve with cream and sugar or the 
following sauce: 

Sauce. — Work 4 or 5 tablespoonfuls of sugar with 1 table- 
spoonful of butter; place in a dish and grate nutmeg over the top. 
Fresh berries may be used instead of cherries. 
Suet Pudding, (Without Eggs).— 

2 cupfuls chopped raisins. 4 cupfuls of flour. 
2 cupfuls of chopped suet. 1 cupful of milk or water. 
2 cupfuls of molasses. 3 teaspoonfuls baking-powder. 

Mix and boil in a pudding bag, or else steam, 4 hours will be 
needed. Serve hot with Hot Butter Sauce. ^ of this rule is 
enough for a small family; cinnamon or nutmeg will improve it, or 
the grated yellow rind of a lemon. 

Plain Suet Pudding, (With Eggs).— 
2 cupfuls of suet, chopped very fine. 



298 THREE MEALS A DAY. 



^ Clips flour. 



Pinch of salt. 1 pint of new milk 

2. eggs well beaten. 
Mix, put in a well-buttered pudding dish, tie a cloth over the 
top. Boil steadily 2 hours, flavor with grated lemon peel. 1 cup 
of chopped raisins and 1 cupful molasses or sugar may be added. 
Serve hot. Vanilla or lemon- sauce may be used. Cream and 
sugar can be used for sauce if preferred. Dried cherries or chopped 
apples instead of raisins, 1 cupful is enough. Either of these rules 
may be made with sour milk and soda. For each cup of sour milk 
take ^ teaspoonful of soda. 
Hartford Pudding.— 

1 cupful of molasses. 1 tablespoonful melted butter. 

1 cupful boiling water. 1 teaspoonful of soda. 

1 teaspoonful each of cinnamon and nutmeg. 

4 cupful s of flour. A pinch of salt. 

1 cupful of raisins, or raisins and currants mixed. 
Cherries or gooseberries dried in sugar can be used instead of 

raisins. Steam two hours. Serve with corn-starch or other sauce. 
Batter Pudding.— 

3 fresh eggs beaten with 6 table spoonfuls of flour. 

Stir gradually into a quart of milk ; 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 1 tablespoonful of butter. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 

^ nutmeg, grated. 

1 teaspoonful of essence lemon, or peach water. 

Beat all well together, pour into a buttered basin or mold 
and steam two hours, or boil in a bag. 8 bitter almonds blanched 
and grated make a nice flavoring. If eggs are scarce, 1 may be 
used, and 4 tablespoonfuls more flour added; beat the egg 
thoroughly. 1 pint of thinly sliced apples may be stirred in at the 
last and will be found a great improvement. Serve with cream 
and sugar, or butter and sugar beaten to a cream and flavored with 
^ teaspoonful vanilla. This may be thinned, if desired, with a little 
hot water. 

Sour milk or buttermilk may be substituted for sweet, in 
which case use 1 even teaspoonful of soda in place of the baking- 



PUDDINGS. 299 

powder. A quart of any kind of fresh berries or pitted cherries, 
may be stirred in instead of apples. 

Salt Pork Padding. — Chop very fine 1 large cup of salt pork 
which has soaked in milk over night, add to it 1 cup of molasses 
in which stir 1 teaspoonful soda, f cupful of sweet milk, 1 cupful of 
stoned raisins or currants, flour to make stiff as cake batter. Steam 
or boil four hours. Serve with Egg Sauce, or some other pudding 
sauce. 

Green Corn Pudding. — 

1 pint of grated or finely cut green com or 1 can of the 
preserved. 

1 pint of Hulk. 2 weU-beaten eggs. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 1 tablespoonful of white sugar. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 
Butter a pudding dish holding a httle more than a quart, mix 
seasoning and eggs with the corn and butter, which has first been 
melted, then the milk. Bake in a moderate oven half an hour. 
Too long baking makes it whey. Do not cook the green com, use 
it raw. Before cutting from the cob spht each row of kernels 
down the middle. No sauce. 

Pippin Pudding. — Pare and core 6 apples, leave whole, boil 
on the stove until tender. Line a pudding -dish with nice paste, 
put in the apples, and pour over them 1 pint of milk thickened 
with 2 or 3 eggs. Flavor and sweeten to the taste. Bake in a 
slow oven, grate sugar over it and serve hot. 

Apple Custard Pudding. — Pare and slice enough apples to 
weigh 2 pounds, cook and rub through a colandar. Add a large 
spoonful of butter while hot, and wlien cold stir in 1 cupful of 
white sugar, 4 well-beaten eggs and the grated yellow rind of a 
lemon. Pour in a deep dish and hake one hour. Sweet cream 
may be used for sauce, but is not necessary. Turn out of the 
mold and brush over with the white of an egg ; cover thickly with 
powdered sugar and return to the oven five minutes to harden. 
Apple Pudding.— 

6 tart apples, grated. 2 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful of melted butter. 

1 pint of milk. 1 cupful of sugar. 



300 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Flavor with lemon, nutmeg or cinnamon. 

Line tlie pudding-dish with a nice paste rolled somewhat 
thicker than for pie crust. Bake one half hour. Serve with or 
without sweet cream. Grate white sugar over the top before 
sending to the table. 

Apple Sago Pudding. — Wash 1 teacupful of sago, pour over 
it 1 quart of boiling water, stirring continually. Season, slightly 
with salt and 1 tablespoonful of sugar. Let stand. Pare and core 
apples enough to cover the bottom of the pudding dish, fill cavities 
with sugar. Season with cinnamon or nutmeg and pour ^ cupful 
of water in the dish. Bake in the oven until partly done, then 
pour the prepared sago over the apples and bake slowly one hour. 
Serve with sugar and cream, or with Hard Sauce. 

Sago Pudding. — 6 tablespoonfuls of sago soaked two hours in 
cold water, and then boiled soft in a quart of milk, stirring fre- 
quently. Add 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 6 tablespoonfuls sugar 
beaten with 4 eggs, nutmeg and cinnamon or grated lemon peel 
and a little juice to flavor. A cup of currants or chopped raisins 
well dredged with flour may be added, if wished. Bake in a 
buttered dish three quarters of an hour. Good cold as well. Very 
nice. 

Sago Pudding, with Pastry.— Prepare the sago and other 
ingredients as above, allow to cool. Line a pudding dish with rich 
paste, turn the sago in, strew over the top ^ pound of Zante 
currants and bake three quarters of an hour. It is best cold. 

Peach Batter Pudding. 

1 quart of milk. 1 can of peaches, drained, or 
^ teaspoonful salt. 1 quart fresh sliced peaches. 
3 eggs, well-beaten (2 will answer). 

2 cupfuls flour, sifted with 1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 
Butter a two-quart pudding-dish and put in the peaches. Rub 

the butter in the flour, beat the eggs and milk together, and stir into 
the flour. Beat smoothly, pour over the peaches and bake in a quick 
oven one-half hour. Serve at once with Dominion Sauce. 
Cocoanut Pudding. — 

1 cocoanut grated (or 2 cupfuls of the desiccated cocoanut 
soaked in part of the milk for one hour). 



PUDDINGS. 301 

1 heaping cupful of stale bread -cnimbs, omitting the brown 

part of the crust. 1 pint of milk. 

1 cupful granulated sugar. 4 eggs, reserving 2 whites. 
^ teaspoonfiil salt. 1 tablespoonful rose water. 

Butter size of an egg. ^ grated nutmeg. 

Soak the crumbs in the milk, cream the butter and sugar, add 
the eggs, milk, crumbs and cocoanut. Bake slowly in a buttered 
dish for one hour. Beat the two reserved whites very stifiF with 
two table spoonfuls powdered sugar. Spread over the pudding 
when taken from the oven and return for a few moments to brown 
slightly. Serve cold without sauce. 
Cocoanut Puddins:, Rich.— 

1 cocoanut grated (or 2 cupfuls of the desiccated) soaked an 
hour in part of the milk. 

1^ cupfuls white sugar. 1 quart milk. 

Whites of 8 eggs. 1 cupful butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls rose-water. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, whisk the whites of the 
eggs until they are stiff and beat into the butter and sugar. Stir 
the whole gradually together with the milk, cocoanut and rose- 
water.' Line the pudding-dish with rich paste, fill and bake in a 
quick oven. Frost the top of the pudding with the whites of 2 
eggs well-beaten and 2 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. The 
paste may be omitted and the pudding simply baked in a buttered 
pudding-dish. Serve cold without sauce. 

The following Corn-starch Pudding should be made in a day 
or two to utilize the yolks of the eggs, which will keep that length 
of time in a cool place, or Gold Cake can be made instead. 

Corn-starch Pudding, Rich (Boiled). 

6 tablespoonfuls corn-starch. 1 quart sweet milk. 
Yolks of 10 eggs. ^ cupful white sugar. 

Slightly salt and scald the milk, wet the corn-starch in a little 
extra cold milk ; turn the scalding milk over the starch gradually, 
stirring all the time. Add the eggs and sugar beaten together. 
Boil three minutes. 

Cream and loaf sugar beaten together form a nice sauce. 
Any other sauce may be used. 



302 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Baked. — Stir the corn-starch in with the scalding milk and 
let boil u^, then add the eggs and sugar and pour into a buttered 
pudding-dish. Bake one-half hour and serve hot. Flavor the 
milk in both recipes with broken nutmeg, stick cinnamon or rose- 
water, removing the spices before stirring into the corn starch. 
This recipe will utilize the yolks of the eggs used in the Cocoanut 
Pudding given above. The baked pudding may be served without 
sauce, or the same ones used that are given for the boiled. If 
desired to make this pudding without reference to utilizing a certain 
amount of yolks, 6 eggs may be used instead of the 10 yolks. 

Corn-starch Pudding with Custard, (Delicious).—! quart 
of milk. Take 1 pint when boiling, add 2 tablespoonfuls of corn- 
starch wet smoothly with a little cold milk or water, 1 tablespoon- 
f ul white sugar, flavor with lemon and let boil up two or three 
times. Then stir in the whipped whites of 2 eggs ; remove and 
let cool. Make a custard of the remaining pint of milk and the 
yolks of the 2 eggs. Cook it in a pail set in a kettle of boiling 
water. Sweeten to the taste and flavor same as the corn-starch. 
When both are cold pour the custard over the pudding and serve. 

The same pudding is delicious with ^ bowlful of whipped 
cream poured over and around it. Leave the pudding plain and 
flavor the cream with vanilla. When using the whipped cream 
make up the whole quart of milk, the entire 2 eggs and twice the 
quantity of corn-starch given, in the pudding itself. 

Whipped cream alone served with cake makes a dainty dessert. 
The corn -starch pudding may be poured in small cups that have 
been previously dipped in cold water, and allowed to cool. Arrange 
these in a shallow dish, pouring the custard or cream around them. 

All boiled corn-starch puddings may be molded in cups and 
served with any sauce or fruit desired. Jellies of various kinds 
are nice; also plum, currant or peach marmalade. 

Corn-starch Pudding (Plain).— 

1 quart boiling milk. 4 tablespoonfuls corn-starch. 

^ teaspoonful salt. 

Wet the corn -starch with a little cold milk or water, and stir 
into the boiling milk. Boil five minutes. Some cooks beat a 
tablespoouful of butter in. Serve hot with h^t milk saur^- or cold, 



PUDDINGS. 303 

with any of the above accompaniments. Different brands of oovn- 
starch differ somewhat in the thickening quality. 
Daudy Jack. — 

1 quart milk. f cupful sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls corn-starch. 3 egg yolks. 

Beat sugar, starch and eggs together. Have the milk boiling. 
Salt slightly. Stir in the above. Let cook a few moments. Pour 
into a deep dish. Beat the 3 whites with 1 tablespoonful white 
sugar, flavor, and spread over the top. Brown lightly in the oven. 

Corn-starch Chocolate Puddiog.— 

3 cupf uls sweet milk. 1 cupful water. 

3 tablespoonfuls grated chocolate. 

4 tablespoonfuls corn- starch, l cupful sugar. 

1 teaspoonful lemon or vanilla. 

Dissolve the corn- starch and chocolate in the water. Scald 
the milk and stir this mixture slowly into the boiling liquid. Add 
the sugar and cook together a few minutes. Mold in one form, 
or in cups. Serve with sweetened cream or hard sauce. Baker's 
chocolate is the best. 

Chocolate Pudding. — 1 quart of boiling milk poured over 8 
tablespoonfuls grated chocolate, and 10 tablespoonfuls grated bread 
crumbs. Beat smooth. Add 1 tablespoonful corn-starch dissolved 
in a little cold water, and the yolks of 5 eggs, the whites of 3, 
well-beaten, and 1 cupful sugar. Stir until it thickens. Flavor 
with a teaspoonful of vanilla. Pour into a buttered pudding dish and 
bake one hour in a moderate oven. When cold frost with the 
remaining 2 whites beaten stiff with 2 tablespoonfuls white sugar 
and a teaspoonful vanilla. Serve. 

Sponge Pudding.— 

2 pints milk. 12 eggs beaten separately. 
4 tablespoonfuls flour. 4 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Let the milk boil. Mix the flour and sugar smooth with a little 
cold milk, and stir into the boiling milk. Add the beaten yolks of 
the eggs. Stir and remove from the fire. When cold stir in the 
well-beaten whites. J'ut in a buttered pudding-dish and bake half 
an hour. Set the dish in a larger dish of water as the pudding 
must not boil, 



304 THREE MEALS A DAY. ^, 

Snow Pudding with Custard. — 

i box Cox's gelatine. 3 eggs. 

2 cupfuls white sugar. 1 pint boiling water. 

Juice of 1 lemon. 
. Pour the boiling water over the gelatine. Add the sugar and 
lemon juice. Strain into a large bowl. When nearly cool, and 
beginning to thicken, stir in the whites beaten to a stiff froth, and 
with an egg beater beat until the whole is thick and white through- 
out. Turn into a mold to harden. Keep cool as possible while 
beating, and keep on ice, if convenient, until ready to serve. This 
may be made the day before using and kept on ice. 

The Custakd. — Yolks of the 3 eggs, 1 pint milk, pinch of salt. 
Sweeten to taste. Cook in a pail set in a kettle of boiling water. 
Cool the custard. Arrange the molds, or mold in an ornamental 
dish and turn the custard around it. 
Snow Pudding, (Plain).— 

1 ounce gelatine. 1^ pints boHing water. 

2 cupfuls white sugar. Juice of 2 lemons. 

4 whites of eggs. 
Dissolve the gelatine in the boiling water. Add the sugar and 
/<5mon juice. Strain into a deep dish. "When it begins to jelly, 
add the well -beaten whites of 4 eggs. Beat all together until the 
dish is full. Put in molds and set away in a cool place, or on ice. 
The yolks of the eggs may be used in gingerbread to which 
they are a great improvement, or a salad dressing may be made, 
using 2 yolks for each whole egg in the rule. 
Lemon Pudding.— 

1 cupful butter. 2 cupfuls sugar. 

Cream these together and add 2 lemons, grated yellow rind 

and juice. 6 egg yolks. 

6 small Boston crackers softened iu 1 pint of milk. 
Bake one-half hour. Spread over the pudding, when removed 
from the oven, a meringue made from the 6 whites of eggs beaten 
with 6 tablespoonfuls white sugar. Keturn to the oven to brown. 
No sauce. 

This pudding may be baked in a crust if wished. Line a 
pudding dish with a rich paste, and pour the mixture in. Use but 



PUDDINGS. TOS 

«l ^ ^ 

^ the quantity of crackers. Bake until the crust is done. No 

sauce. 

Orange Pudding. — 6 oranges sliced thin and sprinkled with ^ 

cupful white sugar. Make the following custard : 

1 pint milk. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

3 egg yolks. 

Cook in a pail set in a kettle of boiling water. When cold 

pour over the oranges. Whip the whites of the 3 eggs stiff with 3 

tablespoonfuls of white sugar and spread over the custard. Serve 

cold. 

Orange Pudding Baked. — 

1 cupful powdered sugar creamed with ^ cupful butter. 

1 wineglassful rose-water. 4 eggs well-beaten. 

Juice of 2 oranges, grated rind of 1. 

1 tablespoonful melted butter. 

^ pound well crumbed Boston crackers soaked in 1 pint of 

sweet milk. 

Beat the eggs with the butter and sugar, and add milk and 

crumbs. Stir aU the ingredients together. Two ounces of citron 

cut fine is an improvement. Line a pudding dish (well buttered) 

with a rich paste. Turn in the pudding. Make a rim of the paste 

around the dish. Bake in a quick oven one-half hour. Serve hot. 

No sauce. 

Transparent Pudding.— 

1 cupful butter. 2 cupfuls sugar. 

6 yolks of eggs and 3 whites beaten separately. 

1 lemon, juice and grated rind. 

1 nutmeg, grated. 1 wineglass rose-water. 

Cream the butter and sugar. Beat in the yolks, lemon, spice 

and rose-water; add the beaten whites last. Line two shallow 

pudding dishes with a rich puff paste and fill with the mixture. 

Bake. Beat the 3 reserved whites with 3 tablespoonfuls white 

sugar and a little lemon juice, spread over the top and brown 

lightly in a quick oven. Serve cold. These are very nice baked in 

tart shells. Serve with meringue. 

Cracker Pudding. — 

I pound rolled crackers. h nutmeg. 

80 



306 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Pinch salt. 3 tablespoon fuls sugar. 

1 tablespoonful melted butter. 

4 eggs beaten to a froth. 1 quart sweet milk. 

Mix the eggs and milk together and turn over the other in- 
gredients in a buttered pudding dish. Let stand until the crackers 
begin to soften, then ba!ie. This is good without sauce, but may 
be served with a very plain one flavored with vanilla. The 
pudding may be flavored with rose-water or vanilla. 

Cracker Pudding (Quick). — 

3 cupfuls sweet milk. 1 egg. 2 cupfuls rolled crackers. 

Boil the milk, stir in the crackers. Beat the egg and stir in 
after taking the pudding from the stove. Serve with some very 
plain sauce flavored with vanilla. This pudding may be prepared 
while unexpected company are at the table. 

Bread and Butter Pudding.— Half fill the pudding dish 
with slices of baker's bread well buttered. Fit them in neatly, 
strew each slice with sugar and pour over the whole a custard 
made in the proportion of 1 egg, to 1 pint of milk. Sweeten and 
flavor to taste. Bake. Let stand ten or fifteen minutes before 
baking with a small-sized plate laid in the dish to keep the slices 
down while softening. This pudding may be varied by omitting 
the sugar and strewing raisins over each slice (do not put any on 
the top as they will burn). Pour the same custard over and bake 
as before. 

Perfection Pudding. — Fill a mold two-thirds full of sliced 
bread, cake, or both. Spread each one liberally with jam or 
jelly of any kind. Pour over this a custard made in the propor- 
tion of 1 egg, to a pint of milk. Sweeten and flavor to taste. 
Bake, or tie a thick, well-floured cloth over the top of the dish and 
boil two hours, or it may be steamed. Served with lemon or 
vanilla sauce. 

Huckleberry Pudding.— 

1 cupful molasses. 2 cupfuls milk. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 2 eggs (1 egg only will do). 

2 teaspoonfuls cream-tartar. 3 pints flour. 

1 ten spoonful soda. 1 quart huckleberries. 

Beat the eggs lightly and stir all together, adding the flour 



PUDDINGS. 307 

last. Then stir in the huckleberries gradually. Boil two hours 
in a pudding mold or steam if preferred. 

Cherry and Berry Puddings. — These are all delicious and 
made in precisely the same manner as Huckleberry Pudding. The 
fruit may be sweetened to the taste before stirring in the batter. 

A Steamed Loaf. — A nice and economical dessert may be 
made by taking the whole or half (according to the size of the 
family) of a loaf bread, stale or otherwise, and steaming it thor- 
oughly. Set the steamer over the vegetable kettle and the pudding 
will be done by the time dinner is ready. Cut in generous slices 
and serve with some favorite pudding sauce, or even with maple 
syrup. 

Blackberry Pudding.— 

1 pint of blackberries boiled tender in 

1 pint of water. 1 cupful sugar. 

4 level tablespoonfuls corn-starch. 

Eub the corn-starch smooth in a little water, salt slightly and 
stir smoothly into the boiling fruit. Flavor to taste. Serve cold, 
with cream and sugar if desired. If molded in small deep cups, 
each one turned out in a saucer and cream poured around it, the 
pudding will have a very ornamental appearance. Cinnamon or 
vanilla are perhaps the best for flavoring. 

Custard Pudding. — Stir 1 quart of milk very gradually into 
half a pint of flour. Free it from all lumps and add to it 6 eggs 
beaten with 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of salt and 
half a grated nutmeg. Bake three-quarters of an hour. 

Quaking Pudding. — Slice up | of a baker's loaf. Beat 7 
eggs to a froth with 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. Mix with a quart 
of sweet milk. Flavor with 1 nutmeg grated. Pour this over the 
sliced bread and let stand until the bread has absorbed most of 
the milk. Thicken slightly with 2 tablespoonfuls of flour. Season 
with a teaspoonful salt. Turn into a pudding bag and boil one 
hour. Serve with a rich lemon or cream sauce. 

Minute Pudding. — Put 1^ pints of milk on the stove in a 
saucepan. Mix 5 large tablespoonfuls of wheat flour smoothly 
with ^ pint of milk (or water may be used for this), 1 teaspoonful 
of salt, and, if liked, ^ a gruted nutmeg. When the milk boils 



3o8 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

stir in this mixture. Let the whole boil a minute or two, stirring 
constantly. Serve hot with cream and sugar. The cream may be 
flavored to suit the taste by omitting the nutmeg in the pud- 
ding. 

Second Rule. — When the pudding has boiled 1 minute remove 
from the fire, let it become lukewarm and stir in 2 or 3 well-beaten 
eggs. Set back on the fire and stir constantly until it thickens. 
Serve in the same manner. If made without the eggs an extra 
tablespoonful of flour will, perhaps, be needed. 

Third Rule. — Wheu the milk has scalded stir into it 1 cupful 
of raisins, seeded. Afterward add 5 tablespoonfuls of flour mixed 
Avith ^ pint of water. Serve as above, with cream and sugar. 

Hmond Pudding. — | pound of sweet almonds, blanched, 
chopped or pounded fine with 

1 tablespoonful rose-water. 

6 eggs, beaten to a froth and mixed with 

4 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. Stir in 

1 quart sweet milk. Add to this 

B tablespoonfuls powdered crackers. 

4 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

4 ounces citron, shredded fine. 
Add the almonds last of all. Line a pudding-dish with puff 
paste, put a rim of crust around the edge, pour the mixture in and 
bake one-half hour. Serve when perfectly cold. 

Gingerbread Pudding. — Take any favorite rule for molasses 
gingerbread; make as usual. Pour the batter into a buttered pud- 
ding mold and steam two hours. Serve hot with Cream Sauce, or 
plain sweet cream and sugar if desired. This may be baked, but 
is better steamed. 1 cupful of seeded raisins added to the batter 
will be found a great improvement. 

Sponge Calie Pudding. — Take a loaf of hot sponge cake, 
made after any plain rule ; cut in pieces and serve with some plain 
hot pudding sauce. Lemon, vanilla or cream sauce will answer. 
Prune Pudding, (Delicious). — Stew 1 pound of prunes until 
soft, remove the pits, add sugar to the taste and the stifily beaten 
whites of 3 eggs. Line a pudding-dish with a rich paste, beat the 
eggs and prunes together thoroughly, pour into the pudding-dish 



PUDDINGS. 309 

and bake one-half hour or until the crust is done. Use the yolks 
of the eggs for salad dressing, gingerbread or corn-starch. 

Sweet Potato Pudding. — 3 s>veet potatoes (the yellow ones 
are best), boil and mash; they should weigh about one pound when 
done. 

^ cupful butter. 1 small cupful white sugar. 

3 eggs, well-beaten. Juice and grated yellow rind 

1 pint sweet milk. of 1 lemon. 

Cream the butter and sugar, stir in the eggs, mix this with 
the potatoes, then the lemon and spice. Beat carefully until light, 
add the milk, turn into a buttered dish and bake one-half hour. 
The dish may be lined with a paste, if desired. If it is served 
hot a sauce will be required; if cold none will be necessary. 
Lemon sauce is the best to use. 

Fig Pudding. — 
^ pound figs, chopped fine. ^ pound bread-crumbs. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. 1 cup brown sugar or molasses. 
2 eggs. 1 cupful suet, chopped fine. 

^ grated nutmeg or 1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 

1 cupful candied lemon peel and citron can be added if 

wished; an improvement. 
Milk sufficient to mix well ^ teaspoonful soda, 
together. 
Kub the figs and sugar to a paste, mix with the bread-crumbs, 
flour and spice, beat the eggs light, add them, together with a little 
milk, very little will be required if molasses is used. 

Put the mixture in a buttered mold, tie a thick floured cloth 
over it tightly and boil four hours steadUy. Serve with or without 
sauce. Egg, Butter or Cream Sauce will answer, or Hard Sauce. 
Queen of, Puddings.— 

1 cupful white sugar. 2 cupfuls bread-crumbs. 

Butter, size of an egg. 1 quart milk. 

4 eggs, yolks only. i cupful jelly or jam. 
1 teaspoonful lemon extract. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the beaten yolks, stir thor- 
oughly, soak the bread-crumbs in the milk, stir all together and 
flavor. Bake in a buttered pudding-dish for one hour. When 



3IO THREE MEALS A DAY. 

done spread the top with jelly or jam. Turn over this a meringue 
made of the beaten whites well sweetened and flavored with lemon. 
Keturn to the oven and brown slightly. Peach marmalade may 
be substituted for jelly. 

Princess Pudding. — Make as above, flavoring with the grated 
yellow rind of 1 lemon and adding to the mixture ^ cupful of seeded 
raisins. Bake as above, adding the juice of the lemon to the mer- 
ingue that is spread over the jeUy. Serve cold with rich cream. 
It will be nice without the cream. 

Dainty Puddings.— 

1 orange. 2 ounces shredded citron.- 
^ 2 cupfuls stale bread, grated. 1 cupful water. 

2 eggs, yolks only. Sugar to sweeten. 

Soften the bread with the water, grate the rind and squeeze 
out the juice of the orange; mix this and the citron with the bread, 
stir in the yolks of the eggs; sweeten. Butter 6 small cups. Just 
before putting the pudding in the oven beat the whites of the eggs 
to a froth ; mix quickly with the bread and fruit, turn into the but- 
tered cups and bake slowly for twenty minutes, or until they are 
browned. Serve hot with cream sauce. 

Rhubarb Pudding. — Put a layer of sliced bread, liberally 
buttered and dipped in milk, in the bottom of a pudding-dish, 
over this spread a thick layer of rhubarb, cut in small pieces, 
together with bits of butter, plenty of sugar and a sprinkling of 
nutmeg. If the pudding is wished larger add another layer of 
buttered bread and one of seasoned rhubarb. Always have the 
top layer of bread and butter, dipped in milk, the buttered side 
down. Bake done and serve with or without some nice pudding 
sauce. 

This is a simple and speedy way of making a pudding. Apples 
and other fruit may be substituted for the rhubarb, in which case 
a few tablespoonfuls of water may be poured over the top before 
baking and sweetened cream used for sauce. 

White Pudding (Very good).— 

3 cupfuls milk. 6 stiffly-beaten whites of eggs. 
1 tablespoonful rose-water. 2 cupfuls flour, sifted with 

1 teaspoonful baking powder. 



PUDDINGS. 311 

1 cupful powdered sugar. 1 tablespoonf ul melted butter. 

Whip the sugar iuto the stiffened whites, add the butter and 
rose-water, then the milk and prepared flour. Bake iii a buttered 
mold, in a rather quick oven. Serve with sugar, cream or vanilla 
sauce. The yolks of the eggs may be used for Gold Cake or salad 
dressing or corn-starch pudding. 

This pudding will be very nice, but not white, if made with 
3 entire eggs instead of 6 whites. It will also be good steamed 
instead of baked. In fact any plain cake batter is veiy nice 
steamed, and served hot with a pudding sauce. 

Cake with Sauce. — Any kind of cake is nice sliced and a 
rich, hot pudding sauce turned over it. Cake with raisins in, 
served in this manner is a very good and wholesome substitute for 
Plum Pudding, which is a decidedly indigestible dainty. Stale 
cakes may also be served in this manner. 

Flummery* — Cut the cake in thin slices, lay in a deep dish 
and pour over it a custard made as follows Beat the yolks of 3 
eggs with 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, add 1 pint of milk, set in a 
kettle of boHing water. When it thickens stir in the whites beaten 
to a stiff froth and pour over the cake. Soft molasses ginger- 
bread is very good served in this way. Several kinds of cake may 
be used at the same time. This dish may be slightly varied by 
making a simple boiled custard in the proportion of 2 eggs to a 
pint of milk. Sweeten, flavor and pour over the cake. Nice for 
dessert. 

Graham or Oatmeal Mush. — Make the mush as usual, not 
too thick; serve hot in saucers with any favored pudding-sauce. 

Boiled Mince Pudding .— 

3 cupfuls flour. 4 tablespoonfuls chopped suet. 

1 egg. A pinch of salt. 

Mix the chopped suet with the flour, stir in the beaten egg, 
together with water enough to mold, roll into a thin sheet, 
spread thickly with prepared mince-meat, roll up firmly, pinch 
the ends to secure the mince-meat; tie carefully in a cloth, 
put the pudding in boihng water and boil fast two hours. 

Sauce. — 2 cupfuls of sugar put in a saucepan with 1 gill of 
boiling water; let simmer five minutes. Add a small lump of but- 



3ia THREE MEALS A DAY. 

ter and flavor with cinnamon and nutmeg. Turn the pudding on a 
hot dish and pour the boiling sauce over it; 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls 
of boiled cider may be added to the sauce. It can be flavored 
with lemon if preferred, or a hot lemon sauce can be used. 
Cabinet Pudding.— 

1 pint flour, sifted with 4 eggs (reserve 2 yolks for 

1 teaspoonful baking-powder. sauce. 

1 cupful sugar. ^ lemon, juice and grated 

1 cupful raisins, seeded yellow rind. 

and cut in two. 1 cupful Zante currants, 

washed and dried. 
Cream the biTtter and sugar, add the eggs, well-beaten, then 
the milk, flour, etc. Put in a buttered pudding-mold and boil 
steadily two hours. Serve with hot Cabinet Pudding sauce. 
Oatmeal Pudding.— 

^ cupful oatmeal. ^ pint sweet milk. 

Mix; to this add 1 pint boiling milk. Sweeten to taste, 
place over the fire a few minutes and stir in | cupful sifted bread- 
crumbs. When thick add ^ cupful shredded suet, 1 well-beaten 
egg. Flavor with nutmeg or flavoring extract to taste. Pour in 
a pudding-dish and bake slowly one hour. 
Buttermilk Pudding. — 

2 eggs. 1 cupful sugar. 

^ cupful butter. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

3 cupfuls buttermilk. 3 tablespoonfuls flour. 

Stir the flour in lightly and pour in a well-buttered dish. 
Bake one hour. It can be turned out in shape. Bake in a crust 
if wished. 

Arrowroot Pudding.— 

4 tablespoonfuls arrowroot, mixed in 1 pint cold milk. 

4 eggs weU-beaten. 1 tablespoonful rose-water. 

1 cupful sugar. ^ teaspoonful lemon extract. 

3 tablespoonfuls butter cut in bits. 
Boil 2 pints of milk in a saucepan. When boiling stir in the 
other ingredients. Let boil until thick, then pour into a mold to 
cool. Turn out and serve cold. Whipped cream would be very 
nice turned around it. 



PUDDINGS. 313 

Lady Sutherland Farina Pudding.— 1 teaspoonfiil Sea Moss 
Farina, stirred in 1 quart of milk. Dissolve it first in a little cold 
milk or water. Salt slightly. Set it in a pan over a kettle of boil- 
ing water. Stir with a wooden spoon. When it boils, add 2 egg 
yolks beaten with 1 cupful sugar (powdered), and last ] teaspoonful 
of vanilla extract. Beat the 2 whites of eggs stiff. Spread upon 
the pudding and brown in the oven three to five minutes. 

Hasty Desserts. — The recipes given below will be found 
useful when unexpected guests find the busy housewife unprepared. 
The short time in which dishes may be cooked are their chief 
recommendation. To these may be added Flummery, Graham 
Mush with sauce, Cake with sauce, Minute Pudding, Quick Cracker 
Pudding, or a Plain Corn-starch Pudding, served hot with cream 
and sugar or marmalade. 

French Pancakes. — This is a very dainty dish. Beat 3 eggs 
with a saltspoonful of salt and a dessertspoonful of sugar until 
very light. Add a saltspoonful of soda dissolved in a teaspoonful 
of vinegar, and a coffee cupful of rich milk. Stir in flour to make a 
thin batter. Put a little fat on a hot griddle, and turn on batter 
enough to spread the size of a common teaplate. Brown on both 
sides. Lay on a hot plate. Spread with a jam marmalade, and 
roll up like jelly cake. Sift on powdered sugar, and a dash of 
nutmeg or cinnamon; it is necessary the batter should be very 
smooth and free from lumps. 

Jelly Cake Fritters. — Cut stale slices of sponge cake in 
squares or diamonds. Fry brown in butter. Dip hastily in boil- 
ing milk. Lay on a hot dish and put a spoonful of strawberry 
jam or peach marmalade on each piece. Any other plain cake may 
be used, but a rich cake will not do. 

Queen's Toast. — Cheap and tasteful. Cut half inch slices of 
stale baker's, or very light domestic bread into squares, removing 
the crust. Dip in a batter made of 3 beaten eggs and a pint of 
milk. Fry to a light brown in a little butter and serve with sweet 
sauce. 

What Is Its.— 

1 pint buttermilk. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

2 well-beaten eggs. A pinch of salt. 



314 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Flour sufficient to make a thin batter that will spread on the 
griddle. Bake the cakes the size of a breakfast plate. 

Sauce. — 1 quart of sweet milk, let boil up. Dissolve 1 table- 
spoonful of corn-starch in a little cold milk or water. Add a pinch 
of salt; a lump of butter the size of a small egg. Stir into the 
boiling milk. Sweeten to taste and flavor with lemon extract. 

Have this sauce ready, and as the cakes are baked place them 
in a deep dish, turning sauce over each cake as they are taken from 
the griddle, placing one over the other. Cut in triangular pieces 
to serve. 

No Matters. — To 3 cupfuls of buttermilk add 3 tablespoon- 
fuls of rich cream and a small quantity of sugar. Stir in flour 
until it is the consistency of paste for doughnuts. Roll out the 
size of a breakfast plate and fry one at a time. As each cake 
comes from the fire, cover it with apple sauce made from tart 
apples, sweetened to taste, and spiced with nutmeg or cinnamon, 
and continue the process until sufficient. 

PUDDING SAUGRS. 

Wine is given in none of these recipes. Wherever wine is 
found in a rule for sauce, juice of a lemon may be substituted in 
some cases; in others, a glass of rose-water or an extra yolk of an 

egg. 

Creaming butter and sugar for sauces should always be done 
in an earthen dish with a wooden or silver spoon. Tin or iron 
discolors. 

Sweet Cream used as a pudding sauce is one of the most 
wholesome, as well as most convenient dressings, suitable to almost 
every pudding, nourishing and agreeable to the invalid as well as 
the epicure. It cannot occiipy too large a place in the culinary 
department. It may be served plain, or white sugar may be sent 
round with it. Flavoring is sometimes used. 

Sour Cream, also sweetened and flavored to taste, is used with 
some puddings. Whipped cream, also. 

Simple Sauce. — l egg beaten thoroughly and stirred into 1 
pint of sweetened milk. Flavor with nutmeg. Nice for corn- 
starch pudding, or rice plain boiled, or a simple rice pudding. 



PUDDINGS. 315 

Custard Sauce.— 

1 pint sweet milk, butter size of a walnut. 

1 well-beaten egg, or the yolks of 2 eggs. 

1 teaspoouful of vanilla or almond extract. 
Melt the butter in the milk, stirring thoroughly. Let cool. 
Stir this gradually into the egg. Heat over a slow fire until the 
custard thickens. Sweeten to taste. Remove from the fire and 
stir until the sugar is dissolved. Serve with corn-starch or blanc- 
mange. Very nice poured over fresh berries in the absence of 
cream. 

Hard Gold Sauce. — | cupful butter creamed with 1 cupful 
brown sugar; flavor with vanilla. Beat the butter to a cream and 
add the sugar. Beat thoroughly. Smooth into shape and grate 
nutmeg thickly upon the top. Keep cool. The yolk of an egg is a 
very nice addition beaten up with the sauce. 

Hard Silver Sauce.— k cupful butter creamed witli 1 cupful 
of powdered sugar. Beat part of the juice of a lemon with the 
sauce or flavor with lemon extract. The stiffly- beaten white of an 
egg stirred in thoroughly with this is an improvement. The whole 
egg may be used if not too particular as to the whiteness of the 
sauce. Keep cool. 

Ooldeu Sauce, (Liquid j, — 

|- cupful of butter creamed with 

1 cupful of brown sugar. 2 yolks of eggs well- beaten. 
Pour over it 1 cupful of boiling milk and let simmer over the 

fire, stirring constantly. Water can be used instead of milk, but 
not as good. Flavor with vanilla or nutmeg. 
Silver SilUCe, (Liquid). — 

2 tablespoonfuls butter creamed with 

1 cupful white sugar. 

2 whites of eggs beaten to a froth. 

1 teaspoonf ul lemon extract or vanilla. 

1 cupful boiling water. 
Serve at once. Add the water at the last moment. 
Creamy Sauce.— 

i cupful butter and 

1 cupful brown sugar creamed together. 



3l6 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

4 tablespoonfuls sweet cream. 
Juice and grated rind 1 lemon. 
Beat all together and serve. 
Cream Sauce, (Hot).— 

1 cupfnl thin cream. 1 tablespoonf ul corn-starch. 

1 cupful sugar. 1 tablespoonful butter. 

Flavor with broken nutmeg or stick cinnamon. 
Kich milk might be used by using two even spoonfuls of corn- 
starch. Boil the cream with part of the sugar. Mix the corn- 
starch and the remaining sugar together dry. Stir into the boil- 
mg cream. Remove when it thickens and beat in the butter. 
Take out the spice and serve hot. 
Cream Sauce, (Cold). — 

1 cupful good cream. 1 cupful of sugar beaten with 

1 egg or the yolks of 2. 
Stir thoroughly with the cream and flavor with 1 teaspoonful 
of vanilla or 1 of lemon extract. Serve cold as possible, keeping 
on ice if convenient. The juice of 1 lemon may be used instead 
of extract. Very nice for rice puddings, corn-starch, etc. 
Milk Sauce. — 

1 cupful hot milk. 2 eggs. 

1 cupful sugar. 1 tablespoonful butter. 

Stir the butter into the boiling milk. Add the sugar and pour 
this over the beaten eggs. Cook in a double boiler or a dish. Set 
in boiling water, stirring until it thickens. Flavor with vanilla, 
adding nutmeg if liked. Set the dish in hot (not boiling) water 
until ready to serve. 

Corn-starch Sauce, (Plain;.— 

1 cupful brown sugar. 1 tablespoonful corn-starch. 
^ cupful butter, scant. ^ teaspoonful cinnamon. 

i teaspoonful grated nutmeg. 

Stir all together. Pour on boiling water, stirring constantly 
until the sauce is of the desired thickness. Serve this with 
steamed puddings or dumplings. 

^^rn-starch Sauce (With Eggs;.— 

2 tablespoonfuls corn-starch. 1 cupful of sugar, large. 
2 eggs, beaten separately. Pinch salt. 



PUDDINGS. 317 

1 tablespoonful butter. 1 quart boiling water. 

Mix all together, reserving the whites of the eggs. Cook 
until thickened. Then beat the whites of the eggs to a good froth, 
but not stiff, and stir through the sauce. Flavor with lemon or 
vanilla. Very nice for steamed or baked puddings. 

Date Sauce. — Stew dates gently in just water enough to cover 
until they are soft enough to rub through a colander. Beat them 
until light; add water, if necessary, to thin them and let boil up 
once. Fruit juice bottled and saved from canning should be use€ 
for thinning instead of water, the juice of currants especially ap- 
petiziug. This sauce is very nice with bread puddings. 
Lemon Sauce. — 

i cupful butter. 1^ cupfuls sugar. 

1 egg well-beaten. 
1 lemon, juice and grated rind. 
1 teaspoonful nutmeg, grated. 
1 pint boiling water. 
Cream the butter and sugar and beat all together for five or 
ten minutes; add the boiling water gradually. Keep hot over 
steam, but do not let boil. Suitable for almost any pudding or 
dumpling. 

Lemon Sauce, (Plain). — 

1 cupful of sugar boiled in 

2 cupfuls of hot water for five minutes. 

3 teaspoonfuls corn-starch rubbed smooth in a little cold water. 
Boil all ten minutes, then add the juice and grated rind of 1 

lemon and 1 teaspoonful butter. Stir until the butter melts and 
serve at once. Nice for steamed and many other puddings. Lemon 
extract may be used. 
Vanilla Sauce. — 

1 cupful sugar. 4 tablespoonfuls flour. 

^ cupful butter. 1 tablespoonful vanilla. 

Mix sugar and flour together, add the butter and pour boiling 
water over it, stirring constantly until it grows clear like starch 
and is the required thickness. Add the flavoring last. Nice for 
steamed or baked puddings. Especially nice for sliced cake served 
with sauce. 



31 8 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Vinegar Sauce.— 

1 tablespoonful of butter rubbed with 

1 tablespoonful of flour. 1 teacupful of cold water. 

1 wineglass of vinegar. 

i teacupful molasses or Thrown sugar. 

^ teacupful of sugar. 1 grated nutmeg. 

Stir until it boils. Serve hot. 
Egg Sauce.— 
* 1 cupful of white sugar. 1 cupful boiling water or milk. 

When melted, stir in 2 well beaten eggs. Flavor with lemon 
or vanilla. Serve immediately. 
Jelly Sauce. — 

^ cupful of currant jelly, beaten to a smooth batter. 

1 tablespoonful of melted butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. 

^ teaspoonful nutmeg. | cupful of boiling water. 

Beat thoroughly. A little lemon juice may be added if liked. 
Serve hot. Exceedingly nice. 
Cider Sauce.— 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter rubbed with 
1 level tablespoonful of flour. Stir in 
1 cupful of brown sugar. 
^ cupful of boiled cider, 
i cupful of boiling water. 
Mix well, let simiper a few moments and serve hot. Nice for 
apple dumplings or mince pudding. 

Maple Sauce. — ^ pound maple sugar cut in bits and dissolved 
in I cupful boiling water. Set over a good fire to melt quickly. 
Stir in ^ cupful butter, cut in bits. 1 cupful of maple syrup may 
be used instead of the sugar. Flavor, if liked, with grated nutmeg. 
Nice for dumplings, batter-puddings, etc. 

Doiniuiou Sauce. — Bring the juice poured from a can of 
peaches to a boil. Dissolve 1 tablespoonful of corn-starch in i 
cupful cold water, add to the juice, boil two minutes and stir in 1 
small cupful of si.gar. This sauce is served with Peach Batter 
Puddincr, but may be used with other. The juice of preserved fruit 
makes nice sauce. 



PUDDINGS. 319 

Cabinet Pudding Sauce.— 

2 yolks of eggs reserved from the pudding. 
^ lemon, juice and grated rind. 

1 cupful of sugar creamed with 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. ^ cupful water. 

Set the dish in a saucepan of boiling water and stir until it 
reaches boiling point. Serve. 

If made for another pudding, 1 whole egg may be used instead 
of the yolks of 2, and 1 cupful of water may be added. Beat the 
egg separately and put in the whites last of all. 
Strawberry Sauce.— 

^ cupful of butter creamed with 
1 cupful white sugar. 
Stir into this 1 large cupful of strawberries washed and 
mashed smooth. Delicious. 
Butter Sauce. 

1 cupful butter. 2 cupfuls granulated sugar. 

1 cupful boiling water. 
"When partly cool add: 

1 beaten egg. ^ teaspoonful cornstarch, rubbed 

smooth in a little cold water. Heat over the fire until it thickens 
sufficiently. 



SICH "pound for pound" preserves and jam can be put away 
without sealing; simply tie up with 2 or 3 thicknesses 
of paper over which put a cloth. Look at them occasionally 
and if signs of working appear, heating up thoroughly will sweeten 
them again. Kemove carefully any mold that may show itself. 

To PREVENT preserves and jams from sugaring add a teaspoon- 
ful of cream-tartar to every gallon of fruit before it is quite cooked. 
A very little tartaric acid will answer the same purpose. 

Use small jars for preserves. 

Preserves that are candied may be liquified by setting the jar 
in a kettle of cold water. Let the water boil continuously for an 
hour or more. 

Preserves. — The "pound for pound" custom of preserving fruit 
has been growing less for many years, though many still prefer the 
preserved to canned fruit. Rules for both methods of preparing 
fruit will be found in the following pages. 

Berries, peaches, etc., may be packed in a jar in layers, with 
part of the sugar sprinkled between. Do this over night. It will 
be found to harden the fruit so that it will keep its form better 
when cooked, and will also permeate it more thoroughly with the 
sugar. Add the remainder of the sugar in the morning and proceed 
as usual. 

tJsE porcelain, granite, iron kettles, or stone jars for preserving. 

Fruits that require paring should be dropped into cold water 
as soon as peeled to prevent blackening. 

Boil preserves gently. 

Clarifying Sugar. — Clarify when brown sugar is used. With 
very nice white sugar this process is hardly necessary. Put the 
sugar in the preserving kettle in tlie proportion of 1 ciupful of water 

(3-'0) 



PRESERVES. 321 

to 1 pound of sugar. To 6 pounds of sugar allow the beaten white 
of 1 egg added while the ingredients are cold. Set over a slow fire 
to die i^lve, stir well and let boil up once or twice. Take from the 
fire a minute, skim, return to the fire and let boil ten or fifteen 
minutes, removing and skimming each time. Then pour off the 
clear syrup, wash the kettle, pour back the syrup and put the fi-uit 
in to cook. This should not be too much crowded, and if there is 
not syrup enough to cover the fruit, remove, add more water to the 
syrup and boil a few minutes before returning the fruit. 

Pake fruit for preserving or canning with a silver knife that 
it may not blacken. 

Sometimes when preserves are but slightly fermented simply 
pouring off the syrup, scalding it thoroughly and turning back 
over the fruit, will be sufficient. Sometimes the jar may be set in 
a moderate oven and kept there until thoroughly scalded, or in a 
kettle of cold water that is allowed to boil briskly for an hour. 

Always use perfectly pure jars. 

Peach Preserves. — Pare and halve the peaches, removing the 
pits, or take the pits out and leave the peach as whole as possible. 
Allow for each pound of fruit 1 pound of white sugar. Dissolve 
the sugar in just enough cold water to saturate it, using ^ cupful 
to the pound. Stir well; let boil ten minutes and skim. Blanch 
5 peach-pits or kernels for each pound of the fruit, put in the 
syrup and let remain. They are very ornamental to the preserves, 
besides giving a delicate flavor. Put in the peaches and cook until . 
clear; about twenty minutes will answer. Eemove from the kettle 
and set away in a cool place, cover closely, let stand two or three 
days, then turn the syrup off and boil until it thickens slightly; 
turn it boiling over the peaches. Put up in jars as directed for 
preserves at beginning of this chapter, or, if desired, they may be 
canned and sealed up. In canning, pack the peaches in the jar 
and pour the syrup over them. 

Peach Preserves (II). — 6 pounds of the best free-stone 
peaches and 3 pounds of sugar. Pare, stone and quarter the fruit, 
strew the sugar amongst it, cover and set away over night. Put 
into a preserving kettle in the morning and boil very slowly an 
hour or more. Seal hot. 
31 



322 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Pear Preserves. — Pare the fniit,divide, and remove the cores, 
adding to each pound of pears |- pound of sugar, making a syrup 
as for Peach Preserves (see first recipe). If brown sugar is used, 
clarify, add the pears a few at a time, and boil until clear, skim 
out and put in the remainder, cook in the same way. Then remove 
the fruit and boil the syrup down one-third; pack the fruit in cans 
and pour the syrup over it boiling hot. Seal immediately. These 
preserves may be put in jars and simply tied down when cold. 

Pear Preserves, (II). — Pare, core and quarter the fruit and 
for each poitnd of pears take ^ pound of sugar. Save the perfect 
cores and skins and boil these in sufficient water to cover. Strain 
this and put the sugar in, let boil and add the prepared fruit; stew 
gently until the syrup becomes colored finely. Can and seal im- 
mediately. Any syrup remaining over bottle for pudding sauce. 

Preserved Quinces. — Choose fine yellow quinces ; pare, quar- 
ter and core them, or cut in circular slices an inch thick; pare and 
dig the core from each so as to leave the slice ring-shaped. Save 
all the perfect cores and skins. Put the quinces over the fire with 
just water enough to cover them and simmer until they are soft 
enough to pierce w^ith a yellow straw. Take out carefully with a 
skimmer and spread upon broad dishes to cool. Add the cores and 
parings to the water in which the quinces were boiled, and stew, 
closely covered, for an hour. Strain through a jelly-bag, and to 
every pint of the liquid or to every pound of the fruit, add 1 pound 
of sugar before it heats ; stir in the beaten white of an egg to 
clarify it; let boil up two or three times and skim each time. Put 
the fruit in the syrup and let boil until a rich red color. Kemove 
the fruit and boil syrup down until fi- begins to jelly on the sides. 
Pack the quinces in jars and pour the syra;;' over them. 

Quince Preserves, (Plain).— Pare, halve an/"^ core; boil the 
parings and the perfect cores until soft in new cidei. ■'^ train the 
cider, and for every pound of fruit allow ^ pound of brown supar: 
clarify with the beaten white of an egg and then put in the quince* 
There should be more than cider enough to cover them, as it waster 
a great deal in boiling. Shred the rind of an oran^are and 9-d^ ^a* 
the flavor. This preserve is nice for common use. 

Apple and Quince Preserves-— Pare, core and quarter i 



PRESERVES. 323 

peck each of quinces and sweet apples. Steam until tender; make 
a syrup according to some of the previous rules ; f pound of sugar 
and ^ cup of cold water to a pound of fruit; boil and skim. Put the 
fruit in the syrup, boil until a beautiful red; slice in a lemon or 
two just before taking up. This is very nice. Quinces alone may 
be prepared in the same way. 

Apple Preserves. — Apples for preserving should be tart 
and mellow. Pare, divide and core. Allow f pound of sugar to 
1 pound of fruit; clarify the syrup and add the apples. If there 
is not syriip enough to cover the fruit, add a little water. Boil 
until the apples are transparent. Take up, and boil the syrup 
until it thickens. Flavor with bruised ginger-root, tied in a cloth 
and boiled in the sjrrup, or add a lemon sliced in thin slices just 
before canning. Pack the fruit in jars and pour the boiling syrup 
in until full. Seal at once. 

Citron Preserves. — Pare the citron and cut in slices 1^ 
inches thick, then into strips the same thickness, leaving them the 
full length of the fruit. Take out the seeds with a sharp knife. 
Weigh and use white sugar, pound for pound; make a syrup, add- 
ing 1 pint of water to 10 pounds of sugar. Simmer gently twenty 
minutes, skim and put in the citron ; boil one hour or until trans- 
parent. Before taking from the fire put in 2 lemons, sliced thin, to 
10 pounds of fruit, and 2 ounces of root ginger. Only boil a few 
minutes after the flavoring is added. Do not stir them while 
cooking. If the syrup is not thick enough skim out the fruit and 
boil longer, pouring it over the citron when done. 

Crab-apple Preserves. — Core the crab-apples with a sharp 
penknife through the blossom end, leaving the stems on. Take 1 
pound of white sugar for each pound of prepared fruit and 1 cup- 
ful of water to the pound. Put over a moderate fire, let dissolve 
and boil; skim and drop the apples in. Let them boil gently 
until clear and the skins begin to break. Skim out; boil the 
syrup until thick; put the fruit in jars and pour the syrup over. 
Slices of lemon boiled with the fruit may be considered an improve- 
ment; 1 lemon is enough for several pounds of fruit. 

Tomato Preserves. — Take fresh tomatoes, pare and cut in 
quarters, squeeze to free from juice and seeds. Let them drain. 



324 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Make a syrup pound for pound with ^ cupful of water to each 
pound. Boil and skim; drop in the tomatoes and boil them until 
done. Add ^ ounce ginger-root ten or fifteen minutes before 
taking up, and slice in 2 or 3 lemons to 8 or 10 pounds of fruit 
just before removing from the fire. Put in jars and tie up. A 
pound of raisins may be added to this amount of tomatoes if 
wished; put in fifteen minutes before removing from fire. 

Plum Tomato Preserves. — Take yellow plum tomatoes, scald 
until the skins come off easily. Take | pound sugar to 1 pound 
fruit. Cook until tender, flavor as above with lemons and add one- 
third as many raisins as tomatoes ten minutes before taking off 
the stove. Very nice without raisins. Seal up hot. 

Green Tomato Preserves. — Take small green tomatoes ; put 
them in a clarified syrup made of white sugar, equal in weight 
to the tomatoes, and cold water more than enough to cover the 
quantity of fruit. Slice in 1 lemon to every 2 pounds of tomatoes. 
Boil them gently three hours , afterward put up in jars,tying securely. 

Oreen Tomato Preserves (II). — Take small green tomatoes, 
allow the juice and grated yellow rind of 2 lemons to every 3 
pounds of the fruit. Pour over these cold water enough to cover 
the tomatoes. Tie an ounce of powdered ginger in a cloth for 10 
pounds of tomatoes, and throw in a few peach leaves. Boil gently 
three-fourths of an hour. Take up the tomatoes, strain the liquid 
and add to it 1^ pounds of white sugar for every pound of to- 
matoes. Keturn the tomatoes and boil until they appear saturated 
with the syrup. In the course of a week turn the syrup from 
them, heat it to the scalding point and turn over the tomatoes. 
Tomatoes preserved in this manner appear like West Indian 
sweetmeats. 

Plum Preserves. — Take fruit and sugar, pound for pound. 
Scald the plums to remove the skins, or if left unpeeled prick each 
one in several places that the juice may exude; let it stand. 
Drain and put the plums in the kettle with alternate layers of 
sugar. Pour the juice over this and let them boil five minutes, 
then remove the plums with a skimmer and boil the syrup until it 
thickens. Keturn the plums and boil ten minutes longer. Put in 
jars and tie up closely when cold. 



PRESERVES. 32^ 

Wild Plum Preseryes. — Scald the plums in saleratus water, 
1 teaspoonful to 2 gallons of plums. When the skins break 
slightly, pour off the water and turn the plums into a colander to 
drain. When cool remove the pits and weigh the fruit. Allow 
pound for pound of sugar. Clarify the sugar by boiling with a 
little water, skim and put in the fruit. When tender skim out and 
boil the syrup down and pour over the plums. Tie up in small 
jars when cold. 

Preserved Grapes. — Take pound for pound of grapes and 
white sugar. Stem the grapes and put in a preserving kettle with 
sugar in alternate layers. Cook over a slow fire, stirring con- 
stantly; as the seeds ri&e skim them off. Stew one hour, set aside 
to cool and then put in jars, tying up closely. Or the grapes may 
be pidped and put through a colander (see directions for canning 
grapes), then weigh and put pound for pound of sugar and boil as 
above. 

Preserved Watermelon Rind. — Peel and shce the melon; 
cut in square pieces, leave a very little of the red on. Let stand 
over night in very weak alum water; in the morning drain and 
steam in a steamer until a straw will pierre them easily. Let 
cool; make a syrup of 1^ pounds of white sugar to 1 pound of 
fruit (pound for pound may be used if the preserves are not wished 
so nice), add enough water to keep from burning; skim. Use 
either 1 lemon to every 2 or 3 pounds of fruit (put in the lemon 
when the fruit is nearly done) or flavor with cinnamon bark, 
broken np and added while the preserve is boiling. Cook the rinds 
until clear and red. 

Mliskmeloa Preserves. — Take perfectly green muskmelons, 
as late in the season as possible. If preserved while the weather 
is very hot they are apt to ferment. Scrape the outer skin off the 
rind. Cut them through the middle. Eemove the seeds, and cut 
the melon in any shape preferred. Soak them in salt and water 
over night, then in clear water four or five hours, changing the 
water several times. Then soak in alum water an hour. Rinse 
and put over to cook in water enough to cover, with a handful of 
peach leaves (if convenient) to 5 pounds of melon, and a table- 
spoonful rf ginger tied up in a cloth. The peach leaves turn the 



326 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

melon green, besides adding to its flavor. Boil the melons until 
yon can pierce tliem with a straw. Make a syrup of white sugar, 
pound for pound. Add enough water to keep from burning. Let 
boil and skim. Put in the fruit and the ginger, and boil it in the 
syrujj as long as can be done without breaking the rinds. If there 
is not enough syrup to cover add a little water. When«cold tie up 
in jars. In the course of a week pour off the syrup, scald and 
turn back over the fruit. Add sufficient essence of lemon to flavor 
it before turning back into the jars. A fresh lemon may be sliced 
into the jars when cold, 1 lemon to 2 or 3 pounds of the melon. 

Orange Preserves. — Take any number of oranges with rather 
more than their weight in white sugar. Slightly grate the oranges 
and score them round and round with a knife, but not cut very 
deep. Put them in cold water for three days, changing the water 
several times each day. Tie them up in a cloth and boil them 
until soft enough for the head of a pin to pei^etrate the skin easily, 
and remove from the cloth. "While they are boiling, place the 
sugar over the fire, with 1 cupfi^l of water to each pound of sugar. 
Let boil two or three minutes and strain through muslin. Put the 
oranges into the syrup and boil gently until it jellies and is of a 
yellow color. Try the syrup by putting some to cool. It must not 
be too stiff. If the syrup does not cover the oranges turn them so 
that every part may be thoroughly done. 

Pine-apple Preserves. — Take perfectly ripe and fresh pine- 
apples, pare ancj^cut in slices an inch thick. Take an equal weight 
of white powdered sugar. Lay the sliced pineapple in a deep dish, 
alternating the slices with sugar sprinkled between them. Eeserve 
i the sugar. Let the pine-apple stand until the next day, when the 
syrup may be turned from them and mixed with the remaining 
sugar, adding 1 large cupful of water for 3 or 4 pounds of pine- 
apple. Boil the syrup. Skim and take from the fire. When cool 
drop in the pine-apple and simmer gently until tender. Keep in 
glass or china jars covered tight and in a cool place. At the least 
sign of fermentation, turn the syrup off, scald, and turn back hot 
on the fruit. If the preserves are canned and sealed hot, there is, 
of course, no danger of fermentation. 

Raspberry Preserves. — Weigh the berries, wash them and 



PRESERVES. 327 

add I their weight in sugar. Boil five minutes. Skim and seal up 
hot. Do not let them hurn. Kaspberries and currants mixed 
make a very nice preserve. 

Blackberry Preserves. — Make same as Easpberry. 

strawberry Preserves. — Pound for pound. Rinse the berries 
and put with the sugar in a preserving kettle over a slow fire until 
the sugar melts. Boil rapidly for twenty-five minutes. Take out 
the fruit with a perforated skimmer and fill a number of small 
cans f full. Boil the syrup five minutes longer. Skim. Fill up 
the jars and seal hot. Keep in a cool, dry place. 

Cherry Preserves. — Pit the fruit. Weigh, and to 8 pounds 
of cherries add 7 pounds of granulated sugar. Drain the cherries 
a little while. Pour off the juice and add to the sugar. Allow it 
to boil, and skim. Put in the fruit. Let cook slowly but steadily. 
When the fruit looks a little clear take out with a skimmer. Boil 
the syrup a few minutes longer, and turn over the fruit. Put in 
stone jars and tie securely when cool. 

Elderberry Preserves. — 

2 gallons of berries picked from the stem. 

5 pounds of sugar. 1 pint of strong vinegar. 

Stew down thick. They will keep without canning. Very 
healthful. 

Cucumber Preserves, (Delicious). — Gather young cucumbers, 
about four inches long. Lay in strong brine one week. Wash. 
Soak twenty-four hours in clear water, changing this four times. 
Line a bell-metal kettle with grape-vine leaves. Lay in the 
cucumbers with a little alum scattered among them. Cover with 
vine leaves. Fill the kettle with clear water. Cover closely. Let 
them snnmer. As soon as they are well greened take out the 
cucumbers and drop in ice water. When perfectly cold, wipe, and 
with a small knife slit down one side. Dig out the seeds. Stuff 
with a mixture of chopped raisins and citron. Sew up the slit 
with a fine thread and weigh them. Make a syrup, allowing 1 
pound of sugar to 1 pound of cucumber and 1 pint of water. Heat 
to boiling point. Skim. Drop in the fruit. Simmer half an hour. 
Take out. Spread on a dish in the sun and boil down the syrup 
with a few slices of ginger root adJed. When thick put in the 



328 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

cucumbers again. Simmer five minutes and put in glass jars, 
tying up when cool. 

Preserved Barberries. — Take the berries when fully ripe, 
let them remain on the stem. Make a rich syrup, allowing same 
weight of sugar as fruit, putting in ^ cupful of water to each 
pound of sugar, let boil up and skim. Drop in the barberries,' 
letting the syrup cool partially first. Boil until thoroughly pene- 
trated by the syrup. Tie up in glass jars. A very ornamental 
preserve. Preserved barberries mixed with cold water forms a 
refreshing drink in fevers. 

Currant Preserves. — Make same as Raspberry Preserves, 
using pound for pound of sugar and boiling a little longer. Pre- 
served currants mixed with water are an excellent drink in fevers. 

Prune Preserves. — Pour boiling water on the prunes and 
set them where they will keep warm, together with a lemon cut in 
pieces. When swelled to the original size, put to each pound of 
the prunes ^ pound of brown sugar and 1 stick of cinnamon. If 
there is not enough water remaining to cover the prunes, add 
more, and stew in this syrup one-fourth of an hour. Squeeze in 
the juice of half a lemon to every 3 pounds of prunes. Do this 
just before removing from the fire. Pit the prunes. 

Cranberry Preserves. — Take pound for pound of fruit and 
sugar. Put a little water in the bottom of the preserving kettle 
and boil until tender. 

Persimmon Preserves. — Select firm, ripe persimmons, and 
take the equivalent of their weight in sugar. Let the persimmons 
lie in cold water for twelve hours. Put them on the fire in enough 
water to cover them and stew gently until tender. Eemove, drain 
and spread them out to become cool and firm. Make a syrup by 
adding a cupful of cold water to every pound of sugar and boiling 
until clear, skimming constantly. When clear, put in the persim- 
mons and cook ten minutes. Take them out, spread again upon 
dishes and set these in the sun. Add the juice and peel of a 
couple of lemons to the syrup, boil it thick, return the persimmons 
to it, cook twenty minutes more, pour into glass jars. Seal when 
cold. 

Pumpkin Preserves. — Divide, peel and remove the seeds; 



PRESERVES. 329 

cut in small square pieces. For each pound of the pumpkin to be 
preserved take 1 pound of pulverized or granulated sugar. Put 
the pumpkin in a deep dish with alternate layers of sugar sprinkled 
thickly over the top. Pour in lemon juice, ^ cupful to 1 pound of 
pumpkin. Let stand twenty-four hours. Then boil the whole 
together with ^ pint of water to every 3 pounds of pumpkin, 1 
tablespoonful of ginger tied in a cloth and the peel of the lemons 
shredded. When the pumpkin is tender, put in jars. In a tew 
days pour off the syrup, boil up and pour over the pumpkin hot. 
Very nice. Vinegar may be substituted for the lemon juice, in 
which case a lemon may be sliced in the preserves when cold. 

Sweet Potato Preserves. — Make syrup as for peaches. 
Parboil the potatoes, first cutting in round slices, and boil in the 
syrup until clear. 

Raspberry Jam. — | pound of sugar to a pound of berries. 
Kinse the fruit and put in the preserving kettle, stir constantly 
until part of the^ juice is evaporated, then add the sugar and simmer 
to a fine jam. This will be found better than putting the sugar in 
first, the seeds are not as hard in this case. A very good addition 
will be found in adding 1 pint of currant juice to every four pounds 
of raspberries. 

Blackberry Jam. — Make same as Raspberry Jam. Very 
healthful, especially for children. Brown sugar may be used. 

Strawberry Jam. — Make same as Raspberry Jam, using 
white sugar and omitting the currant juice. Seal up hot. Straw- 
berries are difficult to keep through the hof weather. 

Currant Jam, (White or Red). — Make same as Raspberry 
Jam. Use pulverized sugar, pound for pound for white currants. 
Weigh currants after they are picked from the stem. Seal hot, if 
preferred. Stir and mash frequently. 

Grape Jam. — Pulp the grapes, scald the pulps until they can 
be rubbed through a sieve to remove the seeds; return the skins 
and boil with | pound of sugar to a pound of fruit. Boil down 
gently; put in tumblers or small jars. Seal. 

Rhubarb Jam. — Cut the rhubarb in pieces 1 inch long, take 
sugar pound for pound. Mix together and let stand all night. In 
the ui,;riuag pour oif the syrup and boil until it begins to thicken. 



330 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Add the rhubarb and boil gently twenty-five minutes. Put up in 
tumblers like Currant Jelly. It will keep a year. 

[If marmalade is put in bowls or tumblers, it may be turned 
out in shape and used where jellies are appropriate.] 

Quince Marmalade. — Pare, core and slice the quinces, stew 
the skins, and the perfect cores in water enough to cover them. 
When tender, strain through a cloth. Add the quinces and sugar 
in the proportion of f pound to 1 pound of fruit, to this liquid. 
Boil, stirring and mashing the fruit with a wooden spoon as it 
softens. The juice of 2 oranges to every 3 pounds of fruit imparts 
an agreeable flavor. When cool, put in small jars. 

Quince Cheese. — Boil quince marmalade very thick and pack 
in tumblers or small pots. It will turn out firm as cheese, and 
can be cut in slices for luncheon or tea. 

Pear and Quince Marmalade.— 

2 dozen juicy pears. 10 fine quinces. 

Juice of 3 lemons. 

I pound of sugar to every pound of fruit after it is ready for 
cooking. Pare and core the fruit, dropping in cold water until 
ready for use. Stew parings and perfect cores in water enough to 
cover. When tender, strain, put in the sliced fruit and boil. Beat 
with a wooden spoon until thick, add the sugar and lemon-juice, 
cook steadily one hour longer, beating with a wooden spoon fre- 
quently. Pack in small jars while warm; when cold, tie up securely. 

Pear Marmalade. — Divide the pears, core and boil soft. Rub 
through a sieve and put* to each pound of pulp f of a pound of 
sugar. Stew over a slow fire till it becomes a thick jelly, stirring 
constantly toward the last. 

Grape Marmalade, (Amber Color). — Separate the skin from 
pulp of the grapes and cook the pulp with 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls of 
water until soft enough to rub through a sieve to remove the seeds. 
To 4 quarts of this pulp add 2 quarts of smoothly cooked som- 
apple-sauce, measured after cooking. Let it get hot before the 
sugar is put in ; add the grated yellow rind of 3 lemons. Cook half 
an hour after the sugar is added. The apples may be cooked the 
day before using. This sauce will grow firm like jelly. Put in 
small jars. This qnantity wi]] r.eed 7 pouurls of sngar. 



PRESERVES, 331 

Grape Marmalade (Red Color). — Boil the skins of the grapes 
in water enough to cover them. Strain through a coarse cloth. 
To 3 quarts of juice add 3 quarts of sour apples, stewed; the juice 
and pulp of 4 lemons, 1 ounce of stick cinnamon, broken in bits 
and tied up in cloth, and 7 pounds of sugar. Let all get hot 
together and add the sugar afterward. Stir until it dissolves. 
Boil one-half hoiu-; take out the spice bag when the flavor suits. 
Put uj) in bowls and cover with paper, like jelly, after it is cold. 
Will keep years. 1^^ pecks of sour apples and 25 pounds of grapes 
will make the two kinds of marmalade given above. They should 
be made at the same time, using the grape pulp for one and the 
juice for the other. 

Lemon Marmalade. — Slice the lemons thin, removing the 
seeds; add 3 pints of cold water to each pound of fruit, after cut- 
ting. Let it stand twenty-four hours, then boil until tender; pour 
into an earthen bowl until the following day. Weigh it and to 
every pound of boiled fruit add 1^ pounds of lump sugar; boil the 
whole together until the syrup jellies and the chips are rather 
transparent. 

Peach Marmalade. — Pare, stone and weigh the fruit. Boil 
one-half the peach-kernels in a cupful of water or enough to cover 
them well. Quarter the peaches and add to the water, after strain- 
ing it; heat slowly, stirring often with a wooden spoon. Then 
boil for three-quarters of an hour. Add | pound of sugar to each 
pound of fruit; boil for five minutes, skim and put in the juice of 
1 lemon to every 3 pounds of huit. Boil a few mmutes, stewing 
to a smooth paste. When nearly cold put in glass jars. 

Apple Marmalade. — Take any kind of sour apples, pare and 
core them; cut in small pieces, and to every pound of apples put 
I pound of sugar. Boil over a slow fire until reduced to a fine 
pulp. Put in jelly jars and keep in a cool place. 

Pineapple Marmalade.— Grated pine-apple and powdered 
sugar, pound for pound. Boil until thick, then pack in tumblers, 
and when cold, paste over with papers dipped in the beaten 
white of egg. Keep in a cool place. 

Orange Marmalade. — Peel the oranges, boil the peel until 
tender; scrape off the white lining with a knife, to remove the 



332 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

bitterness, and chop the remainder fine. Divide the oranges; 
remove the stringy edges and the seeds; chop fine and add to the 
peel. To each pint of this mixture add 1 pound of sugar; boil 
until it thicKens and put in glasses. 

Pear Marmalade. — Pare, core and quarter 6 pounds of 
small pears; steam until tender. Putin a preserving-kettle and 
add to them 4 pounds of sugar and 3 cupfuls of water ; set over 
the fire, mash and stir the fruit while cooking until it is thick like 
jelly. When cool secure same as jelly. Use a wooden spoon. 

Plum Marmalade. — Take the pulp remaining after making 
plum jelly, add | pound of sugar to 1 pound of pulp, first putting 
it through a colander. Cook well, stirring frequently. 

Tomato Marmalade. — Ripe tomatoes, pared; sugar, pound 
for pound. Put in a preserving kettle, adding 1 ounce of ginger- 
root and the juice and grated yellow rind of 2 lemons to every 3 
pounds of fruit (the ginger may he omitted if disliked). Boil 3 
hours, skimming frequently. When a smooth mass put in jars 
and tie down tiglitly. Egg paper may be used or not. Very nice. 

Pear Butter. — Pare, core and cut in small pieces. Allow 
^ pound of light brown sugar to each pound of fruit, and 1 cupfiU 
of cold water to every 2 pounds of pears. Add the sugar when 
they have cooked one hour, together with 1 quart of cider to each 
2 pounds of sugar, and let all cook slowly until a thick marmalade. 
This will take about four hours. Should it get too dry while cook- 
ing add more cider. 

Muskmelon Butter.— Take very ripe melons, so ripe as to 
be soft; cut them open, take out the seeds, then scrape the melon 
from the rind with a knife, and to every 2 gallons of melon take 
2|- pounds of brown sugar. Put in a kettle and boil the same as 
apple butter. Flavor whila hot with lemon. Good. 

Plum Butter. — Cook the plums until tender; run through a 
colander, put in a preserving-kettle with a very little water. To 
each pound of fruit add ^ pound sugar, though by using f to a 
pound it will thicken sooner and more butter will be made from 
less fruit. Boil until thick, stirring almost constantly after the 
sugar is ^dded. This is a delicious butter. 

Plum Butler (II). — When plums are scarce a nice butter 



PRESERVES. 333 

may be made by taking plums and sweet apples, half and half; 
boil both until tender, using separate kettles. Put both through a 
colander; mis and cook as above. 

Grape Butter. — Pulp the grapes, put the skins in a bag, stew 
the pulps until the seeds can be removed by rubbing through a 
colander. To each pound of the pulp add 1 pound of sugar, ^ 
pint of cider vinegar, ^ teaspoonful of cloves, 1 teaspoonful of cin- 
namon and 1 teaspoonful of nutmeg. Boil this very slowly, 
putting in the bag of skins, tied securely. When it jellies by 
dropping in cold water it is done. Put away in jars. For an 
ornamental dish it can be re-heated and put in fancy molds to jelly 
over. 

Grape Butter, (II). — Take sweet apples and grapes, half and 
half. Cook the apples tender and rub through a colander. Pre- 
pare the grapes as above, using 1 pound of sugar to 2 pounds of 
the mixed fruit. The skins may be boiled in a bag and taken out 
as above, or they may be stirred into the butter. The above is the 
better way. Leave plain or spice according to first recipe. 

Orange Butter. — Take the juice of 6 oranges and yolks of 
8 hard-boiled eggs. Kub together in a mortar with 5 tablespoon- 
fuls of pulverized loaf sugar and 1 tablespoonful of orange-water. 
When reduced to a paste stir over a slow fire for twenty minutes 
until thickened. Dip a mold in cold water and pour in the mix- 
ture. When cold turn out and serve with fancy cakes. 

Pumpkin Butter.— 

3 pints of mashed pumpkin. 

1 pound of sugar. 4 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Flavor with ginger root, nutmeg and lemon peel. 

Either bake or steam the pumpkin. Kub thoroughly through 
a sieve, mix with the sugar, butter, flavor, and let simmer on 
the back of the stove one hour. It becomes thick and can be kept 
in jars in a dark place. Use the same as fruit jelly or marmalade. 

Apple Butter. — Take equal parts of sweet cider, boiled -down 
one-half, and fine juicy apples, pared and quartered — 2 gallons ot 
the boiled-down cider and 2 gallons of the prepared fruit. Put the 
cider in a large kettle (never use brass or bell-metal) and boil 
down, then add the fruit, boil for two hours. When the fruit be- 



334 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

gins to settle arrange to have it cook more slowly, stirring gently 
until clone. A large wooden simoon or a paddle made for the pur- 
pose must be used. Cook until it is a smooth brown pulp, like a 
thin marmalade; one-half hour before removing from the fire, add 
3 heaping tablespoonfuls of ground cinnamon and 1 tablespoonful 
of allspice. (If the spice is boiled in from the first it will lose 
its flavor.) Four pints of brown sugar to the above amount of 
fruit.. Some cooks prefer to omit the sugar. When cold j)ut in 
large stone jars closely covered. If sufficiently boiled it will keep 
a year or more. This quantity may be doubled or quadrupled at 
pleasure. Two or three quarts more of apple may be added to first 
two gallons, if the cider will admit of it. 

Grape Cheese. — Put the grapes over the fire in a preserving 
kettle, add a little water. Let scald until .they can be put through 
a colander. Return the smooth pulp to the kettle, add f pound 
granulated sugar to 1 pound of the fruit pulp. Boil down stiff, 
pack in glasses and seal with egg paper like jelly. Very nice. 

Tomato Figs. — Take plum or pear tomatoes, scald and skin 
them. Take 3 pounds of brown sugar to 8 j)ounds or ^ peck of 
the fruit. Cook them with the sugar until they are transparent. 
Remove from the syrup and spread on a dish, flatten down and 
dry in the sun. Sprinkle over them a little of the syrup from 
time to time while drying. When dry pack in boxes, sprinkling 
powdered sugar between the layers. They will keep their flavor 
from year to year. The taste is very much like that of figs. Any 
syrup remaining may be boiled down and bottled to flavor pudding 
sauce. 

Home-made Figs. — Pare and core pears, peaches and quinces. 
Make a syrup as for Candied Fruit. Flavor it with lemon peel. 
Boil the fruit in this until it is tender, then drain and spread on 
dishes. Place in the sunshine or in a moderately heated oven to 
dry. When half dry sprinkle with loaf sugar, finish drying, pack 
in boxes, sprinkling sugar between each layer and upon the top. 
Figs prepared in this way are considered superior to imported figs. 
Save the syrup to flavor pudding sauces. 

Home-made Citron. — Take the rind of watermelons, trim off 
the green outside, cut in thin slices and stew with an equal quan- 



PRESERVES. 335 

tity of sugar, cooking until the syrup thickens. Then dry on 
plates in the sun or a moderate oven. Keep in close jar. Bottle 
the syrup and use for flavoring pudding sauce. This may be used 
in cake instead of the regular citron. 

Peach Paper. — Peel, pit and mash very ripe peaches. To 3 
quarts of pulp put 1 pound of sugar. Let boil a minute or two. 
Spread on plates to dry in the sun ; when dry sprinkle with sugar 
and roll up. Keep in a dry place. 

Preserved Orange and Lemon Peel.— Cut the rind in nar- 
row shreds. Boil in plenty of water until tender and then boil 
thirty minutes in a syrup that has been used for making fruit 
candy, or make a small quantity in the same proportions. Nice 
for mince-meat, fruit cake and to mix with candied fruits and 
raisins on the table. 

Dried Plums. — Pit and put in jars, a layer of fruit alter- 
nately with a layer of sugar in the proportion of ^ pound sugar to 
1 pound of fruit. Let stand over night. Then put the jar over 
the fire and boil ten minutes, skimming carefully. Kemove the fruit 
from the syrup and spread thinly over plates and dry in the sun or 
a moderate oven, turning frequently until dry. Pack carefully in 
boxes. Nice for stewing, for fruit puddings or pies. The syrup 
that is left can be used in the proportion of a pint to a quart of 
good cider vinegar in making sweet fruit pickles. 

Dried Peaches, Plums and Apples. — Pit, peel and cut to 
suit; dry partly and then pack them in jars, spreading sugar 
thickly between the layers. Tie down and they will keep well and 
be delicious for pies or sauce. They may also be dried without any 
sugar and put away for use. 

Dried Peaches. — Halve the fruit, remove the stones, fill the 
cavities with white sugar and dry in a moderate oven. The fruit, 
if first-class peaches are used, will be found delicious, almost 
equal when stewed to preserves, and far more healthful and 
economical. 

Dried Gooseberries. — To seven pounds of red goosebemes 
add H pounds sugar. Let them stand over night, or twenty-four 
hours mixed with the sugar. Then scald until they break; spread 



336 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

on plates and dry in the sun or a moderate oven. Store in close 
paper boxes. 

Dried Currants, Blackberries and Raspberries. — Dry in 

the same manner as Gooseberries. Use more sugar if desired. 

Dried Cherries. — Cherries can be dried same as Gooseberries, 
using a little more sugar, or the same as Plums. Cherries can be 
dried without sugar. 

Dried Pumpkin. — Prepare a large kettleful as for stewing. 
Let boil briskly until all the water has evaporated, then let boil 
slowly, stirring often until very dry and beginning to brown 
slightly. Put on plates in a moderate oven to dry. Hang up in a 
closely-tied paper tag. When wanted for use take a piece the size 
of an egg and put it in a quart of warm milk over night. It will 
be ready for use in the morning. 

Dried Tomatoes. — Take fully ripe tomatoes, peel, squeeze 
slightly to remove part of the juice and lay in the sun or a mod- 
erate oven until thoroughly dry, turning frequently and putting 
on fresh plates, if necessary, to avoid the extra juice that accumu- 
lates. Tie in a paper bag when dried. When ready for use cut 
them up, boil soft, season and thicken with cracker-crumbs as for 
fresh or canned tomatoes. They will be found quite nice. 




(JEIilfY. 



piaAin and fancy. 

QELTED PARAFFINE poured on top of jellies, jams, etc., 
also on the top of canned fruit when the covers are dis- 
colored, will be all the covering necessary, excepting a 
cloth or paper to €-f elude dust. One can use the paraffine many 
times. 

Fruit, to make good jelly, should be chosen before it is too 
ripe. 

Fruit, to extract the juices well, should be brought to a scald. 
Put in a stone jar, mash and stand the jar in a kettle of boiling 
water. Scald thoroughly and strain through a coarse cloth ; squeeze 
but shghtly that the jelly may be clear. 

Jelly should not stop boiling until done. Do not make too 
large a quantity at once. 

Strawberry Jelly may be made in small quantities when 
there is too much juice left from canning them. 

Jelly is much nicer if strained before putting in glasses. A 
flannel bag is very nice for this purpose. Do not squeeze nor stir, 
but let drip slowly through. Placing it near the stove will pre- 
vent the jelly thickening and hasten the straining process. 

A PAN or a shallow preserving kettle is best for boiling jelly. 
Do not use a brass kettle. 

Set the glasses, when filling them, on a folded damp towel, 
or drop a silver spoon in the glass to prevent breakage. 

Mold may be prevented by covering the surface of the jelly 
thickly with powdered white sugar. 

Jelly, to turn out nicely, should have the mold dipped in 
hot water for a second. 

23 (337) 



338 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Test Jelly by dipping out a little in a saucer, or dropping a 
teaspoonful in a glass of cold water, though if made according to 
rule a test is usually unnecessary. 

Cover the glasses with papers dipped in beaten egg. Press 
down tightly around the edges. Use two or three papers; tie 
down firmly. 

Currant Jelly. ■ Crush the fruit and put it in a stone jar 
placed in a kettle of boiling water. When sufficiently softened 
strain through a jelly-bag or coarse towel, do not squeeze too 
much. Weigh the juice and put in a j)reserving-kettle. Weigh 
an equal amount of granulated sugar, put this in a large dripping- 
pan, lined with pale brown paper, to prevent discoloration, and 
place in the oven. Let it get very hot, but not scorched. Stir 
occasionally. Allow the juice to boil twenty minutes, skim 
thoroughly; add the heated sugar. Let all come to a boil and 
remove from the fire; fill the jelly-glasses full and allow the jelly 
to set before sealing. Eead the hints at beginning of this division. 
Egg-paper is the best covering for jelly. 

Currant Jelly (Uncooked). — Strain and squeeze the juice in 
the usual way, but do not scald the fruit. Put the juice in a stone 
jar, stir a few minutes, then add granulated sugar in the proportion 
of pound for pound, with the juice, stiring constantly until the sugar 
is completely dissolved ; dip out or strain into tumblers. Let 
stand until it stiffens, and cover with egg-paper. A very nice way. 

White CuiTant Jelly. — Make as above, only straining the 
fruit to prevent discoloration of the juice. Strain through a white 
cloth and proceed same as for Uncooked Jelly. Seal up with egg- 
paper. In several weeks the jelly will harden perfectly and be 
very clear. 

Apple Jelly. — Cut and core tart apples; add water to nearly 
cover, and boil until a pulp. Strain, pressing lightly; add f pound 
of granulated sugar to a pound of the juice. Boil until it will 
jelly on a flat plate, and strain into glasses. Cover as directed. 
Some flavor with lemon juice or lemon essence. 

Quince and Apple Jelly.— Cut small and core; equal weight 
of tart apples and quinces. Piit the quinces into a preserving- 
kettle with water to cover them; boil gently until soft; then add 



JELLY 339 

the apples, let them boil until a pulp (there should be water enough 
to cover them), then put into a jelly-bag and strain "without press- 
ing it. To each pint of the hquid put 1 pound of white sugar, 
and let it boil gently over the fire until it will jelly when cool. 
Put in tumblers and seal the next day. 

Take the pulp left in the jelly-bag, squeeze out all the 
juice, put 1 large cupful of A sugar (C will do) to each pint; boil 
and skim. When it jellies, put in glasses as above. This will be 
nice but not as clear as the first. 

The pulp may be made into a marmalade by adding ^ pound 
of sugar to each pound of fruit, boiling down until quite thick. 

Crab-apple Jellj. — Eemove the stems and blossom ends; 
cut out any defects, then put in a kettle with water to just cover 
them. Let stew very slowly until almost a pulp; strain and 
squeeze lightly. Add 1 pound of sugar to 1 pint of the juice; 
boil one-half -hour, skim and pour into tumblers. 1 peck makes 
about twenty-one tumblers. 

Peach Jelly (With Gelatine). — Make a thin syrup with 10 
ounces of granulated sugar and ^ pint of water. Then take 12 
ripe peaches, pare, halve, and remove the pits, then blanch and 
bruise 6 kernels. Put the peaches and the bruised kernels into 
the syi'up and allow them to simmer for fifteen minutes, adding 
for flavor the juice of two lemons and the grated yellow rind. 
Strain the juice through a jelly-bag, add 2 ounces of gelatine, dis- 
solved in enough warm water to cover. Pour into a mold ; if re- 
quired for immediate use set on ice until stiff enough to turn out. 
If it is to be kept put in jelly-glasses and seal. 

Peach Jelly. — Pare, stone and quarter the peaches and put in 
a stone crock; add to them ^ of the kernels, and set the jar in a 
kettle of boiling water. Stir and beat the fruit until a pulp; 
strain, and to every pint of juice add the juice of ^1 lemon; 
measure again and to every pound of the liquid allow 1 pound of 
white sugar. Heat the sugar same as for currant jelly. Let 
the juice boil twenty minutes; skim, add the sugar, let come to a 
boil and pour into jelly-glasses. Delicious. Very nice for Jelly 
Gake. 

Cherry Jelly. — Pit the cherries, put in a stone crock and 



340 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

set in a kettle of boiling water to scald. Strain, and proceed with 
as for currant jelly. 

Tomato Jelly. — Peel the tomatoes and squeeze through a 
cloth; weigh and add pound for pound of white sugar. Boil to 
a jelly and seal up. * Keep in a cool, dry place. Flavor with lemon 
juice if wished. This is an excellent article. 

Pie-plant Jelly. — Cut stalks of pie-plant up in small pieces 
with the skin on, throwing out all the green upper ends near the 
leaf. Stew down well with a little water at first to prevent 
burning. Strain through a muslin cloth, add white sugar pound 
for pound with the juice. Boil fifteen or twenty minutes. Pour 
in tumblers. This is a delicious and ornamental jelly. 

Plum Jelly. — Take perfectly sound plums, remove the stems, 
wash and make an incision in each one. Put in a jar, cover, set 
the jar in a kettle of boiling water and let boil 3 or 4 hours until 
all the juice is extracted from the fruit. Strain and boil with an 
equal weight of granulated sugar until it jellies, stirring constantly. 
Put in glasses, sealing as usual. If the plums are not squeezed in 
straining the juice, (and the jelly will be clearer if they are not), 
the pulp may be made into a very nice marmalade by adding f 
pound of sugar to 1 pound of the pulp and cooking until thick. 

Wild Plum Jelly. — Wash the fruit and boil in water enough 
to cover until the plums are a pulp. Strain, weigh the juice, add 
I of a pound of sugar to a pound of juice and make as other jelly. 
Do not squeeze the pulp, simply strain and make marmalade of the 
remainder. 

Cranberry Jelly.— 
8 quarts of cranberries. 
2 pounds granulated sugar. 
1 quart of water. 

Cook thoroughly, mash with a silver spoon and put through a 
jelly bag. Put the juice back on the stove and boil fifteen minutes 
longer. Pour in glasses and seal when cold. 

Gooseberry Jelly. — Take gooseberries that have just com- 
menced to turn red. Eemove stem and blossom ends, put in a jar, 
crush with a potato masher and set the jar in a kettle of boiling 
water and boil until the juice is extracted. Strain and press, add 



JELLY. 341 

white sugar in equal weight with the juice, boil until it will jelly. 
When cold, pour in glasses and seal. 

Ripe Grape Jelly. — Stem, wash, put in a porcelain kettle; to 
every 8 pounds of fruit add 1 cupful of cold water. Boil until 
quite soft, and strain through a jelly bag. Allow granulated sugar 
pound for pound with the grape juice. Boil half an hour, add 
the sugar and boil five minutes longer; pour in glasses. Seal when 
cold with egg paper. Sometimes a pleasant change in the flavor 
of ripe grape jelly is made by adding 1 tablespoonful of cinnamon 
to a quart of the grape juice and boiling with it. 

Ripe Grape Jelly (II). — Pulp the fruit, scald the pulps until 
they can be strained, add to the juice an equal weight of granulated 
sugar and boil, or, proceed as for currant jelly. A clear, beautiful 
jelly will be the result. 

Green Grape Jelly.— Put over the fruit to scald as for Ripe 
Grape Jelly, (first recipe). Mash them while cooking to extract 
the juice. Use grapes that have just turned slightly. Strain, 
weigh and boil fifteen or twenty minutes. In the meantime heat 
an equal amount of granulated sugar. Stir in and turn into 
glasses. When firm, cover with egg-paper. 

Huckleberry Jelly. — Take berries with the bloom upon 
them, put in an earthen jar, cover closely and set in a kettle of 
cold water; let this boil gently until the juice is extracted from the 
fruit. Then strain, measure, turn into a porcelain kettle and boil 
two minutes. Add an equal weight of granulated sugar, throwing 
in at the last an extra cupful or bowl (according to the quantity of 
juice) of sugar. Let boil ten minutes. If it hardens in cooling 
remove at once, if not boil a little longer. Put up in small jars or 
glasses and cover with egg paper. A teaspoon ful of strong vinegar 
to each pint of juice will improve the flavor. 

Strawberry Jelly.— Take fresh, ripe fruit; hull and put in 
jar. Set this in a kettle of cold water, let the water boil until the 
juice is separated from the fruit, but not until the fruit is broken 
to any extent, as this would injure the color of the jelly. Run 
through a jelly-bag without pressing. If the juice is not perfectly 
clear, strain again through muslin, weigh and put in a preserving 
kettle. Boil very gently fifteen minutes, then add an equal weighi 



342 THREE MEALvS A DAY. 

of granulated sugar and boil ten minutes. Seal like other jellies. 
Make a marmalade of the berries with the addition of ^ pound of 
sugar to 1 pound of fruit. 

Blackberry Jelly. — Make same as Currant Jelly, using only 
I pound of sugar to 1 pound of juice. This is a very nice jelly and 
is preferred by many to the jam. The addition of a small propor- 
tion of currants imjiroves the flavor. 

Raspberry Jelly. — Make same as Blackberry Jelly. Add a 
few currants if liked. 

Four-Fruit Jelly. — Take raspberries, strawberries, currants 
and cherries. All should be fully ripe; stone the cherries. Throw 
all together in a jar and set in a kettle of cold water; let this boil 
until the fruit is scalded. Strain through a jelly-bag, pressing as 
little as possible and proceed as for currant jelly. Cool a little bit, 
stirring; if it congeals readily, pour in glasses. Tie down with 
egg-paper. The flavor of this jelly is much finer than that made 
of currants or raspberries alone. 

Calfe's Foot Jelly. — Wash and clean the feet of a large calf. 
Put them to boil in 8 quarts of water. When the water is half 
boiled away, strain through a sieve and set it to cool. When per- 
fectly cold, remove every particle of fat from the top; take up the 
jelly, removing any sediment that may be at the bottom. Set it 
over the fire again, letting it dissolve slowly without stirring; 
before it is hot add the whites of 6 eggs beaten stiff, the juice of 6 
lemons and 8 tablespooufuls of powdered sugar. Let it boil, 
skimming thoroughly until it is perfectly clear. Try a teaspoonful 
on a plate to cool. If not sufficiently firm, boil longer or add |- 
ounce of gelatine or isinglass dissolved in enough water to cover it. 
Put some of the yellow skins of the lemons in the jelly-bag and 
strain through. This gives the jelly a fine, amber color. A stick 
of cinnamon may be put in at the same time with the lemon juice; 
remove before straining. Fasten the jelly-bag (it should be 
flannel ; wring it out of hot water before using, to enable the liquid 
to run more freely) near the fire and do not stir nor press. Calf's 
foot jelly can be made by simply sweetening, leaving out the 
lemon-juice and cinnamon. When for invalids, the physician 
frequently orders a wineglass of pale brandy or a pint of Madeira 



JELLY. 343 

wine added to this quantity. This jelly can be molded in any 
form. It will only keep for a few days. Make the day before 
using. For cleaning the feet see page 23. 

Harlequin Jelly. — Wash a jelly mold with the white of egg^ 
Melt a little currant jelly and pour into it; let it cool. When cold, 
melt some plum jelly and pour in; let this cool. Melt crab-apple 
jelly, and so on, in layers of various colors, till the mold is full. 
Care must be taken that the jellies are only warm, enough to run, 
if they are hot they will mix and spoil the effect. High-colored 
jellies and blanc-mange molded in the game way make a beautiful 
harlequin. Turn out when cold and firm. 

Pyramid Jellies. — Mold variously colored jellies, the more 
the better, in wineglasses pointed in shape. Warm a little of each 
enough to run, fill the glasses and cool. Turn out on an orna- 
mental plate, arrange prettily and heap whipped cream about the 
base. Serve one pyramid to each person in a sauce-dish with a 
portion of cream. Lemon and orange jellies may be molded and 
served in the same way. A dainty dish for a company tea. Takes 
the place of fruits. 

Lemon Jelly (With Gelatine). — 1 package of Cox's gelatine 
soaked in enough cold water to cover it. Then add the juice of 3 
lemons and 2 cupfuls of white sugar. Pour over this 1 scant quart 
of boiling water, stir until dissolved and strain into jelly-molds 
(see Pyramid Jellies), or use 1 large mold with a tube in the center. 
Wet it in cold water before using. Before serving, set the mold 
in hot water a moment and the jelly will turn out easily. Whip 
to a froth ^ pint of cream, sweeten with 2 tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar. Fill the hollow left by the tube with this, heap- 
ing in the center, and pile the remainder around the base, or if 
the mold is solid, heap around the base. Lemon jelly is delicious 
without the whipped cream. If the cream is used, serve some to 
each, using ornamental sauce-dishes. 

Orange Jelly. — Grate the yellow peel of 5 oranges and 2 
lemons into a bowl, and add the juice of the fruit. Make a syrup 
of 1 pound of sugar to a quart of water. Let boil, add 2 ounces of 
isinglass; stir until well dissolved, add the syrup. Strain through 
thin muslin, let stand until half cold, then pour gently into molds 



344 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

that have been wet in cold water. Before turning out, set the 
mold in hot water for a few minutes and loosen the edges with a 
spoon. For methods of serving, see Lemon Jelly. Use granulated 
sugar. 

Cloffee Jelly.— 1 quart of strong coffee sweetened to please the 
taste, ^ box of Cox's gelatine dissolved in water enough to cover. 
Stir this into boiling hot coffee, and when dissolved, strain through 
a flannel cloth or jelly-bag and put in a mold; do not press the bag, 
set in a wet mold to form. When ready to serve, turn out on a 
flat dish and serve with whipped cream heaped about the base. 
Serve with fancy cakes or sliced cake. The whipped cream may 
be omitted. Some serve with cream and sugar. 

Ck)w's Heel Jelly. — Boil 2 cow-heels in 1 gallon of water 
until the bones come out readily. Let cool and remove the fat 
carefully. Take the juice of 3 lemons and turn into the jelly, add 
loaf sugar to the taste and put in a stick or so of cinnamon, add 3 
well-beaten eggs. Let it boil and cool. Repeat the boiling and 
cooling three times, then strain and mold for use. 

Boiled Cider Jelly. — To each pint of boiled cider add 1 
pound sugar and boil ten minutes. This makes a nice jelly for 
tarts. 

(Quince Jelly. — Polish the quinces smooth with a cloth, cut 
in small pieces and pack in a kettle, pour in cold water to cover, 
boil until soft. Make a three-cornered flannel bag, pour in the 
fruit and hang up to drain, pressing occasionally to make the juice 
run more freely. Keep in a warm place. This will also assist the 
process, and the weight of the fruit will cause the juice to flow 
freely to the point. This shape of bag should be used for all jellies-. 
To 1 pint of the juice add 1 pint of sugar and boil fifteen minutes. 
Pour into tumblers, or bowls, and seal according to directions 
before given. 



CUSTARDS. 

ti^LAIN BOILED CUSTARD.— Boil 1 pint of new milk; 
K^ thicken with 1 tablespoonful flour, rubbed smooth with a 
• • little cold milk kept back for the purpose. Let cool partly, 
add 1 egg well-beaten, sweeten to taste; set on the fire again and 
heat until it thickens, stirring constantly ; do not let it boil. Flavor 
with lemon, almond or vanilla. Stick cinnamon or broken nut- 
meg may be boiled in the milk and removed before the thickening 
is added. 

Boiled Custard. - 

4 eggs. 3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

1 quart sweet milk. Flavor (see above). 

Three or four peach leaves boiled in the milk before the eggs 
are added is a very delicate flavor. Cool the milk before adding 
the eggs. Boil in a double boiler or a tin pail set in a kettle of 
boiling water, stirring constantly. If wished richer, 5 or 6 eggs 
may be used to 1 quart of milk. 
Baked Custard.— 

1 quart of milk. 4 eggs. 

A pinch of salt. 

Sweeten and flavor to taste. 
Boil the milk; when cool add the beaten eggs, salt and flavor- 
ing. Bake in a pudding dish. Take especial care not to cook too 
much or it will whey. To test, sink a spoon in the middle; if the 
eggs are hard and no whey rises to the surface it is done. Serve 
cold. If wished richer, 5 or 6 eggs may be used to a quart of 
milk. If wished very nice this custard may be baked in a pud- 
ding dish lined with rich puff paste. 

(345) 



346 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Cup Custards. — Make the custard as above. Butter some 
custard cups and fill nearly full; set them in a dripping-pan and 
fill it nearly to the top of the cups with boiling water; set in a hot 
oven for one-half hour. Serve the cups on a custard stand or 
throw a handsome napkin over a large dish or tray and arrange 
the cups on it. Serve with ripe fruit and sugar or with preserves, 
jelly or mannalade. Cup custards may be set in a steamer and 
steamed. 

Rennet Custard. -Take a piece of rennet 1|- inches long or 
a dessert-spoonful of the spirits in which rennet has been kept, for 
1 quart of milk. Flavor with vanilla, lemon or almond and 
sweeten with 1 tablespoonful of sugar. Cover and set in a warm 
place near the fire. If in an hour's time there are no signs of 
thickening add more rennet. When it is firm like blanc-mange, 
and before the curd separates from the whey, remove the rennet, 
unless the liquid form has been used, and set tbe custard in a cool 
place or on ice until it is served. Powdered sugar or cream should 
be sent up with the custard. 

Home-made Rennet is the best for use. Procure a calf's 
stomach from the meat market, having it first thoroughly scoured 
inside and out with salt. Tack it upon a frame and dry in the 
sun a day or two. Cut in squares, put in a bottle and cover with 
alcohol or pack in salt, in which case the rennet when used must 
first be soaked half an hour in water and washed well. Tie the 
square of rennet to a string for convenience in removing from the 
curd. The dried rennet may sometimes be bought at the drug- 
gists. Kennet custard is an economical, delightful and easily pre- 
pared dish. 

Rice Custard.— 

1 quart of milk. 3 eggs well-beaten- 

3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 1 tablespoonful butter. 

^ teaspoonful salt. 1 small cupful boiled rice. 

The rice may be used warm or cold. Stir it into the milk. 
Eub the butter and sugar together and add to the eggs. Stir all 
together and bake one-half hour in a quick oven. 

Chocolate Custard. — Boil i pound of chocolate in 2 quarts 
ol new milk with ^ pound of sugar and ^ of a vanilla beau for 



SUMMER DESSERTS. 347 

one-half hour. Then add 4 well-beaten eggs or the yolks of 8, 
(this will make it richer, at the same time the whites can be used 
for cake or frosting), and stir until it begins to thicken. Season 
with ^ teaspoon ful of salt. If extract of vanilla be used instead 
or the bean, add 2 teaspoonfuls after the custard is taken from the 
fire. Pour into cups. 

Baked Chocolate Costard.— 
1 quart milk. 

4 tablespoonfuls grated chocolate. 
4 tablespoonfuls sugar. 4 eggs well-beaten. 

Mix, pour in cups and bake. It may be baked in one large 
dish and 1 egg (white) reserved and whipped into a meringue to 
spread over the top of the custard. Flavor the custard with 
vaniUa. 

Orange Custard. — Boil the rind of 1 orange until tender; 
pound fine in a mortar; add to it the juice of 2 oranges, ^ pound 
sugar, 4 well-beaten eggs. Beat thoroughly together and add 1 
quart of milk. Set the mixture on the fire and stir in one direc- 
tion until it sets. Turn into custard cups and serve cold. 

Almond Custards. 

1 quart of milk. 1^ pounds almonds. 

6 yolks of eggs. 4 whites. 

Blanch the almonds and rub to a paste with 1 tablespoonful 
of rose-water and a little grated white sugar. Boil the paste in 
the milk four or five minutes. Beat the eggs and 1 tablespoonful 
of sugar; turn into the milk ; stir constantly until it thickens. 
Eemove from the fire ; stir until partly cool and pour in custard 
cups. If the custards are to be cooled quickly, set the cups in a 
pan of cold water, changing two or three times. Just before 
serving beat the reserved whites to a froth with 1 tablespoonful of 
white sugar and spread over each custard. 

Mottled Custards. — Beat the yolks of 6 eggs and stir into 1 
quart of boihng milk. When thickened, stir in the whites of the 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth with 3 tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar. Flavor with rose or lemon, and continue stirring until the 
custard becomes thick and lumpy. Serve in custard cups, or 
otherwise. 



348 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Make this custard in the same way, using the proportion of 
4 eggs to 1 quart of milk, and pour it hot over plain sponge cake, 
sliced for dessert. Very nice. 
Cream Custards. — 

1 pint of sweet cream, mixed with 

1 pint of sweet milk. 4 well-beaten eggs. 

3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Flavor with nutmeg, lemon, rose or vanilla. Bake in cups, set- 
ting them in a pan of boiling water. It can be baked in one large 
dish. 

Tapioca Custard. — 

4 tablespoonfuls of tapioca, soaked over night in 
1 pint of cold water; in the morning add 

1 quart of milk. 

Put over the fire and let boil up. Then stir in the 
3 egg yolks. 1 cupful sugar. 

Salt and flavor. Turn into a dish and frost with the whites 
of the eggs beaten stiff with a tablespoonful of sugar. Serve cold. 

Farina Custard. — Mix a tablespoonful of sea moss farina 
with a little cold milk ; then add 1 quart of pure milk and ^ teacup- 
ful of powdered sugar. Heat slowly in an enameled saucepan. BoU 
fifteen minutes, stirring briskly. Flavor to taste and pour in a 
pudding-dish Then make a custard of the yolks of 4 eggs and 
the whites of 2, well beaten together, 8 tablespoonfuls of sugar 
and 1 quart of sweet milk. Cook the custard and pour, when 
both are cold, over the Fariua. Whip the whites of two eggs 
to a stiff froth with 1 tablespoonful of sugar, and pour over the 
custard. A beautiful dish. 

Indian Meal Custard.— 

1 quart of sweet milk, good measure. 

2 tablespoonfuls of Indian-meal. 

Heat 1 pint of the milk to boiling point and pour over the 
meal. Let partly cool. In a few minutes add the remainder of 
the milk measure, then the yolks of 2 eggs, beaten with ^ cupful 
of sugar. Beat the whites of the eggs stiff, and just before put- 
ting in the oven, stir in quickly. Bake one-half hour in a pud- 
ding-dish. 



SUMMER DESSERTS. 349 

Lemon Custard.— 

3 eggs. I cupful of sugar. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 2 cupful s of water. 

2 tablespoonfnls of corn- 1 large lemon, 
starch. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs, the butter and sugar together. 
Mix the corn- starch with a little of the water. Stir all together 
and cook as for boiled custard. Kemove from the stove and stir 
the beaten whites in lightly. The eggs may be beaten together if 
there is any haste. Pour in a large pudding-mold to cool, or 
in cups, and turn out. It may be served with sweet cream and 
sugar, or alone. 

Orange Custard. — Make same as Lemon Custard, substitut- 
ing 1 orange. 

Bird's Nest Custard. — Peel and core enough nice tart 
apples to fill a pudding-dish; fill the openings with sugar; pour 
over all a httle water and cook until tender. Make a custard suf- 
ficient to cover the apples in the dish in the proportion of 2 eggs 
to a pint of milk. Sweeten to taste and flavor with nutmeg. 
Bake till the custard sets. 

Floating Island. — 1 quart of sweet milk; boil. Stir in the 
beaten yolks of 6 eggs, 2 tablespoonfnls of white sugar and flavor 
with vanilla, lemon, rose or almond. Stir until it thickens. Pour 
into a wide shallow dish. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff 
froth, sweetening and flavoring slightly. Spread the frothed 
eggs smoothly over the boiling-hot custard (doing it in this 
manner cooks the whites sufficiently without the trouble of setting 
them over boiling water). Grate loaf sugar over the top and 
sprinkle grated cocoanut over that. This last is not necessary but 
is a great improvement. Spoonfuls of jelly or jam may be 
scattered over the top. Set the dish in a pan of ice-water and 
perve cold as possible. Tliis rule may be made with 4 eggs to the 
quart in place of 6, but is not so rich. Serve with cake for tea 
or lunch. 

Cream Floating Island. 

IJ pints of sweet cream; add to this 
X wineglassful of rose-water. 



350 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Juice of ^ lemon. Sugar to sweeten. 

Turn into a deep dish. Beat the whites of 4 eggs to a stiff 
froth with 1 tablespoonful of sugar. Stir lightly with this ^ pound 
of some stiff, dry preserve of small fruits and heap in the center 
of the dish, or turn in a broad shallow dish, and drop the froth 
by spoonfuls or islands over the cream. If the preserve is not at 
hand a spoonful of jelly or jam may be put in the center of each 
island. 

Floating Island PElegante. — Take 1 quart of rich cream; 
sweeten 1 pint of it with white sugar and stir into it sufficient 
currant jelly to color it a good pink. Spread slices of sponge 
cake thickly with jam or marmalade; pile them evenly in a glass 
dish; turn the cream over all. Flavor the other pint of cream 
with lemon; whip to a stiff froth and heap over the cake. Very 
dainty. 

Floating Island FElegante (II). — Prepare the cake as 
above; make a custard as for Floating Island. Pour over the 
cake. Whip the whites of the eggs, as directed in the recipe; 
heap over the cake, flavoring and treating the froth according to 
the directions. 

Orange Sponge.— 

3 oranges, juice and pulp. ^ lemon, juice and pulp. 
3 tablespoonfuls white sugar. 2^ pints of cold water. 

Let all boil together and strain. Mix 2 tablespoonfuls of corn- 
starch in a httle cold water; stir into the liquid and let boil ten 
or fifteen minutes. Set aside to cool. Beat up the whites of 3 
eggs and whip into the sponge with a Dover egg-beater when it is 
ready to serve. Send to the table in small dishes, or, perhaps, in 
tart-shells. 

Lemon sponge may be made in the same manner, using 1 
whole cup of sugar. Serve this dish with or without whipped 
cream. Oranges are plentiful and cheap in the summer, and no 
one need hesitate to prepare this healthful and delightful dish. 

Lemon Sponge.— 

Juice of 4 lemons. 4 eggs. 

1 coffeecupful sugar. 1 pint cold water. 

1 ounce gelatine. 



SUMMER DESSERTS. 



351 



Soak the gelatine oue hour in ^ cupful of the water. Mix 
the sugar with the juice of the lemons. Beat up the yolks of the 
eggs and stir into the remainder of the water; add the sugar and 
lemon and cook in a double boiler or a pail set in a kettle of boil- 
ing water until it begins to thicken ; then add the gelatine. Set 
the dish in a pan of ice- water, beating it occasionally with an egg- 
beater until it is cool, but not hard. Now mix in the unbroken 
whites of the eggs and beat all steadily until it begins to thicken. 
Turn into a mold or molds at once. Serve with or without cream. 
Orange Sponge may be made in the same way, but 6 large oranges 
will be required. 

Charlotte Russe (Plain).— 

1 cupful thick whipped cream. 

1 cupful rich sweet milk. 1 ounce gelatine. 

1 cupful pulverized sugar. 

3 whites of eggs, well-beaten. 

Flavor with vanilla or almond extract. 
Dissolve the sugar and gelatine in the milk, stirring contin- 
ually. Keep hot, but do not let boil ; pour into a dish set in ice- water. 
When nearly cold enough to harden pour in half the cream and 
beat ten minutes. Whip the 3 egg-whites and stir in, beatingfive 
minutes longer. Jb'lavor. Fill the dish or mold with slices of 
sponge cake or lady-fingers; pour in the prepared cream. Beat the 
remaining half cupful of cream and spread over the top. Cool on 
ice, if convenient. If in a mold it will turn out nicely. This 
may be made without cream, but is not as rich. In this case the 
whites of 2 more eggs must be sweetened, whipped stiff, flavored 
and spread over the top ; grated cocoanut sprinkled over this will 
be an improvement, and spoonfuls of jelly dotted over aU beautify 
what is at once a plain, delicious, economical and ornamental dish. 
Charlotte Russe (Extra). — Have a glass dish ready, lined 
with slices of sponge cake or lady cake. Dissolve ^ box of gela- 
tine in ^ pint of rich sweet cream; place the saucepan in a vessel 
of hot water — not boiling — and stir until it is dissolved. Sweeten 
this with ^ cupful of white sugar. Put 1^ pints of rich cream in 
a large bowl. Flavor with vanilla or orange extract, or both. Set 
the bowl in a pan of ice-water or snow. When well chilled whip 



352 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

thoroughly with an egg-beater. Add, if wished, the well -beaten 
whites of 2 eggs and whip again ; they will give the cream a little 
more consistency and make it a little richer. Pour the dissolved 
gelatine and milk into a broad, shallow dish, stirring all the time 
to prevent lumps. When it is nearly cold stir the whipped cream 
in slowly; pour it into the dish containing the cake, and set away 
to cool, on ice if possible; ^ pint of the cream may be reserved, 
whipped to a froth, and spread over the top. The cream may be 
whipped while the gelatine is cooling. 

Cream Charlotte Russe.— 

1 pint sweet cream. 1 cupful sugar. 

1 wiueglassful rose-water. 

Other flavoring may be used in smaller quantity — 1 teaspoon- 
ful being sufficient for vanilla, almond, etc. Mix and put on ice, 
or set the dish in a pan of cold water, as it whips much better 
when chilled. A whip-churn or Dover egg-beater does the work 
better than a fork. As the froth rises, remove by spoonfuls to a 
sieve placed over a dish. Eepeat this until all has been frothed. 
The cream that drips down may be frothed over again. Let stand 
on ice or in a very cool place some time before using. Line the 
bottom and sides of a glass dish with sliced sponge or lady cake. 
Add the cold whipped cream and keep cold as possible until served. 
A much more delicate filling for Charlotte Kusse than wbere gela- 
tine is used. Lady fingers are nice to line the dish. 

Custard Charlotte Russe.— Slice sponge or lady cake, with 
raisins in it, enough to partly fill a glass bowl. Pour over this a 
boiled custard made according to rule for BoOed Custard. If a 
frosting is wished, make the custard in proportion of 6 eggs to 1 
quart of milk, aud reserve 2 of the whites for this purpose. Wliip 
them to a stiff froth with sugar and flavoring and place over the top. 

Corn-starch Charlotte Russe.— Line a pudding-dish with 
sliced sponge cake. Make a thin corn-starch sauce in the propor- 
tion of 1 tablespoonful of corn-starch to 1 quart of milk. Sweeten, 
flavor and stir in the beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Pour this over the 
cake. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth ; spread over 
the top and put in the oven long enough to harden. Turn out to 
serve. 



SUMMER DESSERTS. 353 

Creme de la Creme Charlotte Russe.— Line a mold, sides 
and bottom, with sliced spouge cake or lady-fiugers. Whip 1 pint 
of cream with sugar, and flavor according to directions given in 
Cream Charlotte Eusse. Fill the mold first with a layer of cream, 
then a layer of jelly; alternate in this way, having cream for the 
top layer. Let harden. 

CoflFee Charlotte Russe.— 

1 pint sweet cream. ^ box gelatine. 

1 cupful pulverized sugar. ^ cupful strong coffee. 

Line a mold, sides and bottom, with sliced sponge cake. Soak 
the gelatine one hour in water enough to cover; add just enough 
boiling water to dissolve it. Whip the cream according to direc- 
tions given in Cream Charlotte Kusse. Stir in the dissolved gela- 
tine lightly but thoroughly; then the sugar and the coffee a little 
at a time. Turn into the mold. A plain mold is easier to turn 
the Charlotte Russe from. Unless it is arranged in a glass dish a 
deep narrow bread-pan is very good for the purpose. Set in a 
cold place to congeal. This will keep over night in a cool place. 
This makes it very desirable for Sunday desserts, or an elaborate 
tea or dinner where there are many other dishes that must be pre- 
pared the same day. 

Tea Charlotte Russe. — Same as coffee. Substitute strong 
tea for coffee. 

Chocolate Charlotte Russe. — Prepare in precisely the same 
manner as above, substituting in place of coffee or tea, 4 table- 
spoonfuls of grated Baker's chocolate dissolved in ^ cup of hot 
milk. Let cool before adding to the cream. 

Orange Charlotte Russe. — Prepare in precisely the same 
manner as above, substituting the juice of 3 large oranges in the 
place of coffee, tea or chocolate. 

Lemon Charlotte Russe. — Prepare in precisely the same 
manner as above, substituting the juice of 2 large or 3 small 
lemons in the place of orange juice. These are all delicious dishes, 
healthful, delightful and by no means expensive ; delicious at any 
season of the year, but especially so in summer. 

Apple Charlotte. — Pare, core and slice 12 tart apples. Stew 
soft, sweeten well, and if not smooth enough rub through a col- 

1^3 



354 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

ander. Set over the fire and stir in the yolks of 3 eggs. As soon 
as thoroughly hot (it must not boil) turn into a bowl. When cool 
whip in the beaten whites of the eggs mixed with 1 table- 
spoonful of white sugar. Line glass dish with sliced sponge cake 
or lady-fingers ; pile the apple within it ; set on ice until wanted. 
The top may be covered with macaroons neatly fitted. 

Banana Charlotte. — Line the sides of a quart mold with 
sliced sponge cake, and the bottom with sliced bananas, two layers 
deep. Fill the mold with stiff whipped cream. Set aside on ice 
until wanted. Remove carefully from the mold and serve. The 
filling may be Bavarian Cream if liked. 

Fruit Charlotte. — Place in a glass dish a layer of sliced 
sponge cake or any delicate plain cake. Dip each slice in sweet 
cream or rich milk. Make a boiled custard in the proportion of 
1 quart of milk, 4 yolks of eggs and f cupful of sugar; flavor to 
taste. Put a layer of ripe strawberries, raspberries, blackberries 
or sliced peaches well sugared, and alternate with cake until the 
dish is filled. When the custard is cold pour over the whole. Beat 
the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth; sweeten, flavor and heap 
over the top. 

Chocolate Meringue. — Dissolve 2 tablespoonfuls of corn- 
starch in 1 tablespoonf ul of milk or water. Grate 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of chocolate, into a saucepan and add to it 1 pint of milk ; stir 
until perfectly smooth. (An earthen dish is nice for such prepara- 
tions unless cooked in double boiler; they are not so apt to burn 
as in tin.) When it is scalding hot pour in the corn-starch and 
stir until it thickens; then add the yolks of 2 eggs beaten with 2 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, and stir until well thickened. Let cook a 
minute, flavor with 1 teaspoonful vanilla, and pour in a glass dish. 
Just before serving, when it has cooled perfectly, cover it with a 
meringue made of the whites of eggs beaten stiff with 2 table- 
spoonfuls of white sugar and a few drops of vanilla. This may 
be made with 1 egg, but is not quite as rich. 

Apple Meringue.— 

1 quart of apple sauce beaten smooth. 

^ teaspoonful lemon extract. 

1 cupful granulated sugar. 4 egg yolks well beaten. 



SUMMER DESSERT. 355 

Mix thoroughly; put in a buttered pudding dish, and bake 
fifteen or twenty minutes in a quick oven. Beat the i whites to a 
stiff froth with 4 tablespoohfuls of sugar. Spread over the top; 
brown lightly. Serve with cream. Good cold. 

DAINT^Y DISHRS. 

Apple Snow.— Take perfectly smooth tart apple sauce beaten 
to a cream, or the pulp scraped from baked tart apples and beaten 
smooth. Sweeten well, and to every large cupful add the beaten 
white of an egg. Beat all together thoroughly with an egg-beater 
until it is as light as possible. This is nice for dessert with cake, 
or for tea, or invalids. 

Apple Trifle»(DELicious).— 12 apples, sliced; stew to a pulp, 
beat fine and sweeten well. Add the juice of 1 lemon and part 
of the grated yellow rind. Beat the whites of 4 eggs to a stiff 
froth and whip in with the apples. (The lemon can be omitted.) 

Custard. 
l^^'pints of rich milk. 1 large cupful sugar. 

4 egg yolks. 

Boil until it thickens. When perfectly cold pour over the 
apples. They must be stiff to prevent rising in the custard. 
Lastly, whip ^ pint of rich cream perfectly light and lay over all. 
Can be made without the cream. Delicious either way. 

Molded Apple. — Boil 1 pound of loaf sugar in 1 pint of 
water five minutes. Add 2 pounds of tart apples prepared as for 
sauce. Let boil until the mixture grows thick. Add the grated 
rind and the juice of 1 lemon, or flavor with lemon extract. Press 
into molds that have been dipped in cold water and not wiped. 
When the molded apple is turned out ornament by sticking 
blanched almonds over it. Pour whipped cream or soft custard 
around it. Compared with Apple Trifle, Molded Apple will be 
cheaper when eggs are scarce. 

Banana Dessert. — Slice bananas and pour over them whip- 
ped cream, sweetened and flavored with vanilla; 1 tablespoonful 
of gelatine dissolved in a little water and whipped into the cream 
gives some consistency. Serve with sponge cake. 



35^ THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Peach Dessert. — Slice peaches; leave a few hours in sugar; 
scald and allow to cool. Make a thick sweet custard and turn 
over them when both are cold. The result will be a delicious 
dessert. 

Fruit Island. — Fill a glass dish half full of any fresh berries 
or sliced peaches. Put in layers with powdered sugar sprinkled 
between. Pour over them a hot-boiled custard made in the pro- 
portion of 2 eggs and 4 tablespoonfuls of white sugar to 1 pint of 
sweet milk. 

Cupped Rice. — Mold plain boiled rice in teacups. Serve 
each person with 1 mold ; set in a saucer with plain cold-boiled 
custard poured around it or cream and sugar. The effect is still 
better for a cupful of raisins to be cooked with the rice before it 
is molded. 

Cream Substitute. — A nice boiled custard may be served 
with fresh berries and sliced peaches. Sweeten the berries to 
taste. Serve, and pass the cold custard in a crystal, or china 
pitcher around with them, allowing each guest to pour over the 
fruit as much of the custard as they wish. This is a very nice 
substitute for cream. 

Cheese Dish for Tea.— 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 3 eggs. 

4 tablespoonfuls bread-crumbs. 

i pound cheese. 1 cupful sweet milk. 

Cut the butter and cheese in bits. Put in a bowl with the 
/)read-crumbs. Scald the milk and pour over this; then add the 
well-beaten yolks and a pinch of salt. Mix, cover and place on 
the back of the stove, stirring until dissolved; then add the stiffly 
beaten whites of the eggs. Pour in a buttered pie-plate and bake 
in a quick oven for twenty minutes. Serve instantly. Mustard 
may be served with this. 

Welsh Rare-bit or Rabbit.— Toast smooth thick slices of 
bread evenly on both sides. Trim off the crust, lay a thin flat 
slice of cheese on each slice of bread; set them in the oven in a 
clean dripping-pan until the cheese is thoroughly melted. Serve 
9,t once. 

Cheese Foudu* — Melt together over the fire 1 tablespoonful 



SUMMER DESSERTS. 357 

of butter and 1 tablespoonful of flonr. Stir until the mixture 
bubbles, adding a gill of rich milk or thin cream. When per- 
fectly smooth and thick, mix in gradually 3 heaping teaspoonfuls 
grated cheese, and season slightly with salt and Cayenne pepper. 
Turn into a cool dish and stir in the beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Whip 
the whites of 3 eggs to a stiff froth and add at the last moment, 
beating gently, not stirring, that they may not be broken down too 
much. Bake in the dish in which it is to appear at the table, 
buttering it well and leaving room for the fondu to rise. A deli- 
cate golden brown over the whole surface is the signal to remove 
and serve. Have a quick oven. 

Potted Cheese. — Cheese that has grown dry or begun to 
mold can be turned into a very delicious compound by the follow- 
ing process: Remove all the moldy portions; if dry, grate it; if 
not, pound smooth, add a wineglass of sherry, a teaspoonful of 
white sugar to each pound. When the whole is a smooth paste, 
press down tight in small pots or jars and lay a paper dipped in 
brandy on the top, or else turn hot melted suet over it until the 
surface is completely covered; 1 tablespoonful of butter added to 
each pound of cheese, while rubbing smooth, will make the com- 
pound rich. This is very nice to spread over bread and butter, 
and will keep several years. It is much better for use when a year 
old than freshly made. Keep in a cool dry place. 

Cheese Tarts. — Cheese, grated and seasoned in the propor- 
tion of the yolk of 1 egg, | teaspoonful made mustard, ^ teaspoon- 
ful white sugar, 1 saltspoonful salt, and a dash of Cayenne pepper 
to 2 heaping tablespoonfuls of grated cheese may be baked in 
small patty-pans lined A\dth puff-paste. Fill them half full. They 
will be lighter and puffier if the white of the egg is beaten 
stiff and stirred in just before filling into the patty-pans. Serve 
hot. 

Dutch Cheese or Cottage Cheese. — Set a pan of curded 
milk on the back of the stove and let heat slowly; boiling will 
toughen the curd. When the curd is separated from the whey 
take off, pour into a bag or ^iece of muslin and hang on a nail to 
drip until next day. Chop up the ball of curd and work smooth 
with salt, pepper and cream or butter to taste. Mix with the 



358 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

bands and make into small balls, or press in a disb and slice off 
to serve. 

Smear Kase. — Make as above, but mix very soft and smooth, 
using cream, or sweet milk enricbed witli bi tter. 

Cream Cheese. — Take 1 quart of tbick sour cream ; mix in 1 
level tablespoonful of salt. Tie in a piece of muslin and bang in 
a cool place to drip for tbree days. 

English Cream Cheese. — Take 1 quart of cream; if not 
desired very rich add 1 pint of milk. Set tbe disb in bot water 
and warm tbe cream almost to boiling point. Kemove and add 1 
tablespoonful of rennet; let stand till tbick, tbeu break sligbtly 
witb a spoon and tie in a tbick clotb, press lightly with a weight 
for one-half day, tie in a finer cloth, rub powdered salt over tbe 
cloth, and hang up for a day or two. 

Lemon Syrup. — Put 3 pounds of white sugar in a preserving 
kettle. Cover witb 1 quart of water. Boil until it is a clear 
syrup, stirring frequently. When cool add 1 ounce of citric acid, 
and 2 teaspoonfuls of oil of lemon. Bottle immediately. 

Orange Syrup. — Squeeze out the juice of fresh oranges; to 
1 pint of the juice put 1|- pounds of sugar. Set over a moderate 
fire. When the sugar has dissolved, drop in the peel of the 
oranges, and let boil slowly ten minutes. Strain through a flannel 
bag. Do not squeeze the bag or the jelly will not be clear. Bottle, 
cork and seal. Very nice to flavor puddings, etc. 

Lemon Syrup can be made in the same way only using 1^ 
pounds sugar to 1 pint of lemon juice. Wring the flannel bag out 
of hot water before straining. 

Simple Syrup Used for Hot Cakes, etc.— | pint of water 
to each pound of sugar. When it is thoroughly dissolved set over 
a gentle fire and let boil half an hour. When clear and boiling 
hot, spread a wet napkin over a bowl and strain the syrup through. 
Some like to flavor this with rose, cinnamon, nutmeg or even 
lemon. 

Nevada Mountain Honey. — 

li pints of water. ^ ounce alum. 

Put in a kettle and boil. Add to this 4 pounds white sugar. 
Boil three minutes after it has dissolved. Skim. Strain while 



SUMMER DESSERTS. 359 

hot. Take 3 drops of oil of rose to ^ pint of alcohol, and put 1 
large teaspoouful of this to the ahove mixture. An excellent imi- 
tation of honey, and a fine article for sale. 
Artificial Cuba Honey. — 

10 pounds browTi sugar. 1 quart water. 

2 pounds old bee honej. 1 teaspoonful cream-tartar. 

2 teaspoonfuls gum Arabic. 
Mix and boil three minutes. Add to this 1 quart of water 
beaten up with 1 egg, and continue boiling five or six minutes, 
removing any scum that may rise. Take from the fire, and when 
nearly cold, add 2 pounds more of bee honey, 1 teaspoonful essence 
peppermint, 2 teaspoonfuls extract rose. One-half the recipe is a 
good quantity. 

Lemon Honey. — 

Yolks of 6 eggs and whites of 2. 
Juice of 6 lemons, grated yellow rinds of 2. 
1 cupful of butter. 1 pound of lump sugar. 

Mix thoroughly and set the bowl containing the mixture in a 
sauce-pan of boiling water. Stir until it is of the consistency of 
honey. 

It will keep two weeks or more in a cool place, and is a very 
nice filhng for layer cakes, tarts, or may be served with bread and 
butter for tea. 

Lemon Butter. — Juice of 1 large lemon; dissolve in this 1 
large cupful of white sugar, stirring it continually over the fire and 
taking care not to burn. Then add 2 eggs beaten separately. As 
soon as the mixture becomes thick, remove from the stove. This 
can be used in the same manner as Lemon Honey. 

BLANG-MANGR. 

EuLES used in the cooking of custards will be found applicable 
to the preparation of blanc -mange. 

Blanc-mange is made of a great variety of materials such as 
arrow-root, gelatine, farina, corn-starch, etc., and may be served 
with cream, or various sauces, preserves, or diluted fruit jellies. 
"Whipped cream is a very delicious ac.cnipaniment. Boiled custard 
is preferred as sauce by many. Cream and sugar with plum jelly 



360 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

is extra nice. Plum jelly is always nice for blanc-mange or corn- 
starch. 

Molds of various kinds are used. One of the most ornamen- 
tal is a grooved cake tin with a tube in the center. Whipped 
cream or ornamental froth can be filled in this opening and heaped 
around the outer edge. Molds where gelatine is used should be 
dipped in hot water before using and not wiped, that the contents 
may turn out easily. For corn-starch this is not necessary. 

Ornamental Froth for Blanc-mange or Creams. — Beat 
the whites of four eggs to a froth with 1 tablespoonful of sugar. 
Stir in | pound of preserved raspberries, strawberries or cranberries. 
Beat well together and turn around blanc-mange or creams. 

Gelatine Blane-mange.— 
1 quart of rich milk or cream. 

1 ounce gelatine dissolved in enough warm water to cover it. 
^ cupful white sugar. 

Put over the fire and stir until thoroughly mixed and melted. 
Let come to boiling point. Flavor with 1 teaspoonful lemon or 
vanilla. Turn in a bowl and stir until almost cold. Pour into a 
mold and put in a cool place. Turn from this and serve with any 
blanc mange dressing. 

Arrow-root Blanc-mange.— 

2 tablespoonful arrow-root. 2 eggs. 
1 quart sweet milk. 

Sweeten the. milk to taste, scald and stir in the eggs and 
arrow-root beaten together, flavor with orange syrup, vanilla or 
lemon. Let boil up a minute stirring continually. Pour into a 
mold or molds to cool. Serve with any of the sauces given for 
Blanc-mange. 

Isln-glaSS Blanc-mange. — 1 ounce white isin-glass, soaked 
an hour or two in milk enough to cover. Scald 1 quart of milk and 
add the soaked isin-glass, stir constantly until it is dissolved; a 
double boiler, or its substitute, a pail set in a kettle of boiling 
water, should be used. Sweeten to the taste with loaf sugar and 
flavor with stick cinnamon, broken, or a vanilla bean ; these can 
be removed; if extracts are used add when the blanc-mange is 
partly cool. Let boil up, stirring constantly. Pour into molds 



SUMMER DESSERTS. 361 

and set away to harden, or use a grooved cake pan with a tube in 
the center for a mold. Serve with cream and sugar and plum 
jelly, or with fruit juice, etc. — See hints at head of chapter. 

Calf's Foot Blanc-mange. — Boil 4 feet, previously cleaned, 
in 5 quarts of water without any salt. When the liquor is reduced 
to 1 quart, strain and mix with 1 quart milk, flavor with stick of 
cinnamon, broken, or a vanilla bean. Boil in ten minutes. Sweeten 
to the taste with white sugar, remove the spice and fill the molds. 
Set away to cool. Nutritious for invalids. 

Rice Flour Blanc-mange. — 4 tablespoonfuls of ground rice, 
with ^ pint of cold milk ; stir into this 1 quart boiling milk, add 
grated rind of 1 lemon and half the juice; a blade of mace and 
white sugar to the taste. Boil seven or eight minutes stirring con- 
stantly (use a double boiler or substitute). Take from the fire 
when cool, add whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff. Stir constantly till 
the boiling point is reached. Then pour in molds or deep cups 
and let remain until cold. Delicious food for invalids. Serve 
plain or with preferred accompaniments. 

Rice Blanc-mange. — Boil 1 teacupful of rice with a blade 
of mace, ^ rflitmeg, broken, or 1 stick cinnamon, in 1 pint of water. 
Season with 1 teaspoonful salt. When it has boiled nearly dry, 
add sufiicent milk to prevent burning and ^ cup white sugar. Let 
boil until thoroughly soft, stirring frequently. Dip the molds or 
cups in cold water and turn in the rice without drying them. Let 
remain in these until perfectly cold ; it is best made the day before 
using; turn in dessert dishes, ornament with marmalade or jelly, 
cut in slices and serve with sweetened cream. 

Almond Blanc-mange. — Blanch i pound of almonds weighed 
in the shell. Pound to a paste with 1 tablespoonful of rose water, 
or orange water (more flavoring if liked), and lumps of loaf sugar, 
adding a lump for every 3 or 4 almonds and pounding only a few 
at a time; a mortar is good for this. Put this paste into 1 pint o^ 
milk. Add to this 1 ounce of gelatine, previously soaked an hour 
m enough milk to cover it. Stir over the fire until thoroughly 
dissolved and boiling hot, then pour in 1 pint of cream; milk will 
answer. Let boil up (strain through a muslin cloth, if wished very 
nice) stir until partly cool, and pour into molds. Orange syrup 



362 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

would be delicous with this. Fruit juices or whipped cream equallj 
so, or cold cream sauce. 

Corn-starch Blanc-mange. — 

1 pint of milk. 3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch. Butter size of walnut. 
Flavoring. Pinch of salt. 

Boil the miUf with the sugar in it, mix the corn-starch with a 
little extra cold milk, or water, stir in the boiling milk and let cook 
a minute or two. Remove from the fire and beat in the butter to 
whiten it. Pour in molds to cool. Turn from the molds when 
cold and serve with sweetened cream. Cold cream sauce or diluted 
fruit jelly. A couple of peach leaves boiled in the milk gives a 
delicate flavor. 1 egg, beaten separately may be added if wished. 
Stir the stiffly beaten white in the blanc-mange after removing 
from the fire. If the egg is used omit the butter. 

Tapioca Blancmange.— 

^ pound tapioca, soaked in 1 cup of cold water 4 hours 01 
over night. Add 

1 pint rich milk. ^ cupful sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls vanilla or almond extract, a pinch of salt. 
Heat the milk and stir in the soaked tapioca, add sugar and salt, 
boil slowly fifteen minutes , stirring constantly, remove from fire 
and beat until nearly cold. Flavojj and pour into molds previously 
dipped in cold water. Turn out and serve with sweet cream, boiled 
custard, or cold cream sauce. 

Sago Blanc-mange. — (Same as above substituting sago for 
tapioca). 

Farina Blanc-mange.— 

1 quart new milk. 4 tablespoonfuls farina. 

^ spoonful salt. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

Heat the milk to boiling point in a double boiler, or pail 
set in a kettle of boiling water. Mix the farina with a little cold 
milk or water, stir in, add other ingredients and boil fifteen 
minutes, stirring constantly. Pour into molds wet in cold water. 
Serve with any desired accompaniment. 
Chocolate Blanc-mange. — 

1 quart of milk. 1 ounoe gelatine. 



SUMMER DESSERTS. 363 

I cupful sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla. 

5 tablespoonfuls chocolate, grated. 
Keserve 1 cupful of milk and soak the gelatine in it not less 
than one hour; the same amount of isinglass may be used instead. 
Boil the remainder of the milk and stir in the chocolate; then add 
the dissolved gelatine, the sugar and flavoring. Beat until par- 
tially cool, pour in a mold wet in cold water. Serve with whipped 
cream, sweetened cream or boiled custard. 
Cream Fruit Blancmange.— 

1 quart of raspberries, strawberries or blackberries. 

^ package Cox's gelatine, soaked one hour in 

^ cupful water. 

1 large cupful white sugar. 

1 pint sweet cream ; rich milk will do. 

^ cupful boiling water. 
Crush the berries to extract the juice and stir into this the 
soaked gelatine and the sugar. Pour in the ^ cupful boiling water, 
stir thoroughly, strain, and mix with it the pint of cream ; turn in 
a mold ; set in a cool place, on ice if possible, to form. Take 
from the mold and serve plain or with whipped sweet creanx; or 
use a grooved cake-tin with a tube for a mold, and fill the opening 
left by the tube with the cream, or pass around with it cold-boiled 
custard in a glass pitcher. Cold cream sauce or sweetened cream 
may also be used. 

Corn-starch Fruit Blanc-mange. — Take any kind of berries, 
currants or cherries; express the juice and use | juice and ^ water. 
Let boil up, strain and sweeten to taste. Mix corn-starch in a 
little cold water in the proportion of 2 tablespoonfuls of the starch 
to 1 pint of the juice. Let it boil up and turn into a deep dish or 
mold, to cool, or into small molds- Serve with whipped cream, 
boiled custard, or sweetened cream, cold cream sauce, or sweetened 
milk. Another change is to leave the fruit in the blanc-mange, 
and proceed in the same manner. Do not strain the juice before 
stirring in the corn-starch. 

Farina Fruit Blanc-mange. — This can be made after the 
above recipe for Corn- starch Fruit Blanc-mange, substituting 
farina in place of corn-starch for thickening, in the proportion of 



364 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

2 tablespoonfuls to 1 pint of juice. Boil this fifteen minutes, 
stirring constantly. Mold and serve in same manner. 

Irish Moss Blaiic-niange. — 

^ cupful Irish moss to 1 quart sweet milk. 

Set pail in a kettle boiling water one-half hour. Add a wine- 
glass of rose-water; strain and mold. Put in a cool place. Serve 
with cream. 

Ci'eam Peach Blanc-mange. — l once of gelatine or isinglass 
dissolved in 1 pint of the juice of canned peaches ; sweeten with 
white sugar to the taste. Stir over the fire for twenty minutes, 
stirring constantly. Skim, if necessary, and pour into ^ pint cream 
(rich milk will do if cream is not convenient, but is not as nice). 
Stir until cool, pour into a mold wet with cold water and set in a 
cool place. Serve plain or with cold cream sauce or plain sweet 
cream. Cherries, quinces, berries or any other kind of canned 
fruits can be made into a Cream Fruit Blanc-mange in the same 
manner; some, of course, requiring more sugar than others. 

Harlequin Blanc-mange. — A deep, small-sized, square bread- 
pan can be used as a mold if a "brick" mold is not convenient. 
Put ^ pint of milk with a pinch of salt in a pail and set into a 
kettle of boiling water. Dissolve 1 tablespoonful of corn-starch in 
a little cold milk or water. When the milk boils add the corn- 
starch; when thickened take from the fire, flavor to taste with a 
few drops of vanilla, pour into the mold. Einse the pail, pour in 
another ^ pint of milk and put on to boil. Proceed the same as 
before; flavor with rose-water, first coloring the milk with enough 
currant jelly to give a pretty pink, or use confectioners' coloring; 
turn this over the white. For the next ^ pint of milk, beat the 
yolk of 1 egg with the corn-starch before adding to the scalded 
milk, flavor with lemon, put on top of the pink. Put 1 table- 
spoonful of grated chocolate and 1 tablespoonful granulated sugar 
into the last ^ pint of milk, thicken with corn-starch as before, 
turn into the mold. When cool cut in slices and serve with sugar 
and cream. Very nice for a company-tea or a children's party. 

Harlequin Blanc-mange may be made by alternating layers of 
plain Corn-starch Blanc-mange and Fruit Blanc-mange in a mold. 
When cold turn this out of the mold upon an ornamental glass 



SUMMER DESSERTS. 365 

and heap whipped cream around it. Cream and sugar may be 
substituted for this. 

Bird's Nest. — Make a plain blanc-mange, almost any variety; 
gelatine, corn-starch, farina or any other. Empty 9 or 12 egg 
shells (save them up from cooking) by pouring the original con- 
tents through a small opening in the little end of the egg. Einse 
the interior carefully in cold water, then fill with the blanc-mange, 
while warm, and set in a pan of flour with the open end up that 
they may not be overturned. Next morning fill a large glass dish 
I full of any kind of jelly; 1^ pints will be needed. Break the 
shells from about the blanc-mange and pile them upon the jelly 
(which should be warmed enough to mold in shape) as soon as it 
is firm enough to bear them. Cut narrow strips of orange or 
lemon peel and boil until tender in a syrup of sugar and water. 
Arrange these around the eggs, warm the reserved ^ pint of jelly 
so that it will run, not getting hot, and pour over the whole. This 
may be made without the jelly, simply pouring a boiled custard 
over all. A pretty dish for a children s' party, or a company-tea. 

Ivory Blanc-mange. — Soak 1 ounce of gelatine for ten minutes 
in a little cold milk, stirring constantly until it is dissolved, or the 
dish containing it may be set over a boiling tea-kettle for a few 
minutes. Eemove and add 1 small cupful sugar, and beat in 2 or 
3 tablespoonfuls apple jelly previously melted. This will give the 
ivory tint besides flavoring delicately. 

Snow Pyramids. — Beat the whites of 6 eggs to a stiff froth. 
Add 1 cupful of currant, or any other jelly, and whip together 
again. Fill the required number of saucers half full of cream, 
and drop in the center of each one a little pyramid of the whipped 
jslly and eggs. Whipped cream may be used instead of liquid 
cream in the saucers. 




Q^EMM^. 




•apioca cbeam.— 

8 tablespoonfuls pearl tapioca, soaked over night in 
2 cupfuls of water. 
In the morning boil 3 pints of milk and stir in 

3 tablespoonfuls of corn- starch, blended with a little water. 
3 egg yolks beaten with A pinch of salt. 

6 tablespoonfuls sugar. 1 teaspoonful lemon essence. 

Add the tapioca. Stir until it thickens. Pour into a pudding- 
dish. Whip the 3 whites of eggs to a stiff froth with 1 table- 
spoonful sugar and a few drops of lemon essence, and turn over the 
cream. Set in the oven until the meringue turns a delicate golden 
brown. Serve cold. 

Tapioca Jelly.— See Invalid Cookery. 

Tapioca Cream (II). — 2 tablespoonfuls tapioca, soaked one 
hour in 1 cupful cold water or milk. Put it in 1 quart of boiling 
milk. Cook one-half hour, then add 

3 egg yolks, beaten with | cupful white sugar. 

Stir these into the milk and cook three minutes longer. Have 
the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Remove the dish from the fire; 
stir in 1 teaspoonful lemon or vanilla and the beaten whites. When 
well mixed, pour into molds. Serve cold; cream and sugar may 
be passed around with it if desired. 

Chocolate Cream. — Break up 2 ounces of sweetened choco- 
late in a tin basin set over boiling water, and to it add gradually 
1 pint of milk. Stir until perfectly smooth, and scalding hot, 
then add 3 eggs, well beaten, stirring until creamy. Flavor with 
vanilla. Toast slices of any light, common cake and pour the 
hot cream over them. Serve cold. Or, omit the cakes, simply 
allowing the cream to become cold, and serve alone. This rule 

(366) 



1 



CREAMS. 367 

may be varied and made larger by adding 1 pint of milk ; then 
pour the cream into cups and bake. Set the cups in a dripping- 
pan nearly full of hot water. Serve cold. 
Chocolate Cream (II).— 

^ cupful vanilla chocolate, grated. 
4 egg yolks, or 2 whole eggs. 
^ cupful sugar. 

1 pint cream (rich milk may be used). 
Stir all together in a tin basin; set over boiling water; when 
smooth and thickened add 1 ounce of isinglass, previously dis- 
solved in warm water to cover it. Kemove from the fire ; stir in 
^ cupful whipped cream and pour into a mold. Set in a very cold 
place, and serve cold as possible. 
Lemon Cream. — 

1 lemon, grated rind and inner pulp cut fine. 
1 cupful sugar. 1 cupful water. 

^ cupful butter. 3 eggs. 

Let the other ingredients come to a boil, stirring frequently, 
before adding the well-beaten eggs. When it thickens take from 
the fire and let cool before serving. It is delicious. If eggs are 
not plenty, use 2 eggs and a tablespoonful of common flour mixed 
with a little water. Serve in glasses. 

Orange cream may be made in the same manner. 
Orange Cream.— 

1 orange, juice and grated rind. 
1 cupful white sugar. 

1 pint of sweet cream (rich milk may be used). 
4 yolks of eggs. 
Stir thoroughly ; heat the cream to boihng and pour in, stirring 
until perfectly cold. Flavor with orange water. A pretty addi- 
tion to this is to pour the cream in small glasses. Whip the 
whites of the eggs to a stifif froth with a tablespoonful of sugar, 
flavoring with a few drops of orange water and spread over the top. 
Almond Cream. — Scald 1 pint of cream in a tin basin set 
over boiling water, breaking in it 1 stick of cinnamon and a blade 
of mace; 2 ounces of blanched almonds. Eemovc the spice, 
sweeten the cream to taste, and pour over the almonds, stirring 



368 THREE MEALS A DAY.. 

slowly until smooth; then stir over boiling water as before until it 
thickens. Do not let it boil. Pour in glasses and let cool. 1 egg 
beaten thoroughly and added to this will render the cream of more 
consistency. 

Snow Cream. — Beat the whites of 4 eggs to a stiff froth ; 
stir in 1 tablespoonful of rose-water, beat together, then 1 pint of 
thick sweet cream. This is delicious served for dessert, with mac- 
caroons or other sweetmeats. 

Winter Snow Cream. — Sweeten 1 pint of cream very sweet; 
flavor with lemon or vanilla. Let stand till very cold. When 
ready for dessert beat new fallen snow into the cream until it is 
stiff enough to stand alone. Serve immediately. Very rich milk 
may be used as a substitute, but is not as nice. 

Caledonia Cream.— 

^ glassful raspberry jelly. ^ glassful currant jelly. 
^ cupful white sugar. 2 whites of eggs. 

Put all in a bowl and whip steadily with an egg-beater until 
it is perfectly light and foamy. Heap up in an ornamental glass 
dish. This is a very ornamental cream, and economical. 

Burnt Cream. — Boil 1 pint of cream with a stick of cinnamon, 
a little lemo-n peel, and 1 cupful of white sugar. Eemove from the 
fire and pour slowly over the yolks of 4 eggs, stirring until half 
cold. Eemove the spice. Pour in a dish. When cold strew 
granulated sugar thickly over the top and brown with a salamander, 
or a clean fire shovel heated red hot, and held over the top until it 
is browned. Vanilla extract may be substituted for the above 
flavoring. 

Bui'nt Cream (II). — Make a rich boiled custard flavoring to 
suit. When cold sift sugar thickly over the top and brown as 
above. 

Velvet Cream. — 

1 quart sweet cream. 1 package Cox's gelatine. 

1 cupful granulated sugar. 

Soak the gelatine in 1 cupful of cold water until partly dis- 
solved, then set over the fire until thoroughly heated through, 
stirring until perfectly smooth. Strain through a sieve if wished 
very velvety. Whip the cream, adding the gelatine slowly. Flavor 



CREAMS. 369 

with almond or any preferred extract. Turn into a mold previously 
dipped in hot water. Very dehcate and true to its name. 

Rock Cream. — Boil 1 cupful of rice in new milk until soft 
and nearly dry. Sweeten with powdered sugar and pile upon a dish. 
Lay over it lumps of jelly, or preserved fruit of any kind. Whip 
the whites of 3 eggs to a stiff froth with 1 tablespoonful of white 
sugar, and a few di'ops of any preferred flavor. Add to this, when 
beaten, 1 tablespoonful of thick sweet cream. Drop this over the 
rice, giving it the appearance of a drift of snow. Very ornamental 
and delicious. 

Rice Cream. — 

1 cupful rice boiled soft but not to a paste. 

2 cupfuls of sweet milk. 4 eggs. 

1 cupful sugar. Vanilla extract. 

1 cup fid whipped cream. 
Beat the eggs; add sugar and vanilla. Scald the milk and 
pour over the eggs. Let cook until it thickens. Set in a kettle of 
boiUng water in a basin, and stir continually wliile cooking. While 
still hot beat in the rice, and let it get nearly cold before adding 
the whipped cream. Set to form in a wet mold. Put in a very 
cold place. Turn out on a glass dish and serve with lady fingers, 
or other light cake, and rich pickled peaches. Whipped cream or 
whipped syllabub, or custard, may be turned around the mold of 
cream when served. 
Italian Ci'eam. — 

1^ pints milk. 1 cupful sugar. 

^ box gelatine dissolved in ^ pint water. 

1 wineglassful rose or orange water. 
Beat all together half an hour. Pom- in a mold to form. 
Serve with some kind of preserves and light cake. Cheap and 
good. 

Spanish Ci*eam. — 

^ box of gelatine, dissolved in 

1| pints of milk ; boil and stir in 

3 yolks of eggs ; add 

3 tablespoonfuls of sugar; boil again. 
Beat the whites to a stiff froth and stir in, after removing the 

24 



370 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

cream from the fire. Flavor with orange or almond. Pour in a 
mold and cool slowly. 

Banana Cream. — Kemove skins from 5 large bananas, and 
nxb them smooth with 5 tablespooufuls of white sugar. Beat ^ 
pint of cream to a stiff froth, add the pounded fruit, and a little 
lemon juice. Mix well and add ^ ounce of Cox's gelatine pre- 
viously dissolved in enough rich milk to cover it. Whisk all 
together gently and mold. Cream and sugar may be served with 
this. 

Corn-starch Lemon Cream. — 

1 quart water. 1 cupful sugar. 

4 large tablespoonfuls corn-starch. 
Juice of 3 large lemons. 

Dissolve the starch and sugar in the lemon juice. Pour in 
the boiling water. Let cook several minutes, stirring constantly. 
Mold this before serving. The white of 1 egg, whipped stiffly with 
1 tablespoonful of sugar, may be spread over the top if desired. 
Serve cold with cream and some preserves, or jelly, or else perfectly 
plain. 

Peach Cream.— 

1 can peaches. 1 quart of milk. 

4 eggs. 1 cupful powdered sugar. 

^ package gelatine soaked two hours in ^ cupful cold water. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs with the sugar. Boil the milk. 
Stir in the yolks and remove from the fire. Dissolve the soaked 
gelatine in a little boihng water, and stir gradually and thoroughly 
into this custard. 

Take the juice from the peaches, add half as much water and 
1 cupful of sugar. Cook gently until it thickens, first dropping in 
the peaches. Dip a mold in cold water. When the cream is 
partly cold pour 1 cupful into the mold, then a layer of the 
peachea cooled and cut in quarters, then more cream, alternating 
in this fashion until the mold is full. Stand several hours in a 
very cold place ; turn out on an ornamental glass dish and pour 
around it the boiled syrup, and a stiff meringue made of the whites 
of the eggs beaten with a little sugar; or simply arrange the 
peaches in the bottom of a glass dish and pour the cream over 



CREAMS. 371 

them, serving the syrup as a sauce, and making use of the whites 
of the eggs in making some delicate cake to be sent to the table 
with the cream. 

Oriental Cream.— 

1 quart new milk. l^ cupfuls sugar. 

1 lemon, juice and grated rind. 

4 eggs. 1 pint cold water. 

2 ounces gelatine. 1 glass of rose-water. 

Scald the milk in a pail set in a kettle of boiling water, adding 
to it the grated yellow riud of the lemon, the eggs well beaten and 
^ cupful sugar. Stir rapidly four or five minutes until the custard 
thickens smoothly. Then set the pail in a vessel of cold water, 
stirring a few moments. Have the gelatine soaking in the pint of 
cold water for an hour. Set over the fire and cook, stirring until 
it is dissolved. Add to this the juice of the lemon and the 1 cupful 
of sugar. Set it upon ice to cool, and beat with an egg beater to a 
froth. Add the custard a little at a time, and when it is all beaten 
in, pour over it the rose-water and beat a few minutes more. Fill 
2 molds that have been wet with cold water and set away to cool for 
next day. Serve it with whipped cream, preserved strawberries or 
peaches. 

Bayarian Cream.— 

1 quart of cream or milk. 4 eggs. 

|- box of gelatine. 1 coflfeecupful sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls vanilla. 

Boil the sugar to a syrup in a little water. Dissolve the gela- 
tine in enough water to cover it. Scald the milk and turn in the 
gelatine, beaten yolks, syrup and flavoring. Remove from the 
stove and stir in the stiffly beaten whites. Turn into a wet mold 
and cool. Serve cold with or without strawberries, peach preserves 
or plum jelly. 

Strawberry Cream (I). 

1 quart of ripe, hulled strawberries. 
1 cupful white sugar. 

Set over a moderate fire and stew gently, covering the sauce- 
pan closely, and stirring occasionally. When the fruit has stewed 
ten minutes, remove and rub through a sieve with the back of a 



372 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

wooden spoon. Set it away. When cool, stir in i pint of thick 
cream. Place on ice until thoroughly cool, and serve with a 
garnishing of large whole strawberries. 

Raspberry Cream.— 

1 pint red raspberries. 1 pint whipped cream. 

^ package gelatine soaked in ^ cupful cold water. 
1 cupful powdered sugar dissolved in 
1 cupful boihng water. 4 egg-whites. 

To this add the soaked gelatine, stir and set aside to cool. 
Beat the whites of the eggs stifif and when the jelly is growing firm 
whip this into the frothed whites. Stir in the berries and turn 
into any mold, plain or fancy. Turn out on an ornamental glass 
plate and heap the freshly whipped cream about it. 

Strawberry Cream (II). — Make in the same manner as the 
Kaspberry Cream given above. 

Raspberry Cream (II). — Make the same as Strawberry 
Cream No. I. 

Gooseberry Cream. — Stew 1 quart of gooseberries with 2 
cupfuls of white sugar. When done, strain thi-ough a sieve. Make 
a boiled custard as follows: 1 quart of milk, 3 eggs; sweeten and 
flavor to taste, and stir the gooseberries through this. Serve in a 
deep glass dish. ^ cupful of cream may be whipped and piled over 
the top if the dish is wished especially nice. 

Fruit Creams. — Take any kind of stiff preserves or jam and 
put in the bottom of a glass dish. Make the Snow Cream or the 
Italian Cream, and when it is nearly cold turn over the fruit. 
Serve cold. 

Whipped Cream.— 

1 pint thick cream. 1 small cupful white sugar. 

1 \vineglass of rose-water, or some other flavoring. 

Mix and put the dish on ice for an hour, or set for the same 
length of time in a pan of cold water, as cream wbips much better 
when chilled. Whip with an egg-whip. Put the froth, as fast as 
it rises, to drain on a sieve placed over a deep dish. If large bubbles 
rise, stir in and whip over again. Whip over the cream that drips. 
When no more froth rises, heap the cream in a glass dish, or serve 
in small glasses. Set on ice, if possible, a short time before 



CREAMS. 373 

serving. Delicious filling for Charlotte Kusse or very dainty to 
serve with delicate cakes of any kind. 
Whip SyUabub.— 

1 pint thick, sweet cream. 

6 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. 

2 lemons, juice of 2 and grated rind of 1. 
2 tablespoonfuls rose-water. 

2 whites of eggs, stiffly beaten. 
Beat all together with an egg-whip. Put plum or any other 
jelly in the bottom of glasses and fill them with froth as fast as it 
rises. 

Lemon Snow. — 

1 box Cox's gelatine dissolved in 
3 cupfuls boiling water. 
Juice of 3 lemons. 
1^ cupfuls sugar. 
When nearly cold, stir in the whites of 4 eggs, beaten stiff. 
Put in the dish, set on ice or in cold water. Garnish with small 
squares of red jelly before sending to table. 
White Mountain.— 

3 cupfuls milk. 
1 cupful sugar. 

4 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful lemon extract. 

1 tablespoonful com -starch, or flour. 
Boil the milk. Beat the whites of eggs with 3 tablespoonfuls 
of sugar extra, and the lemon extract. Put in the boiling milk to 
cook. Tm'n with a large ladle and lift carefully out. Beat the 
yolks, sugar and corn-starch together smoothly, and stir into the 
milk. Let boil and flavor with an extra teaspoonful of lemon 
extract. Cool and put in a handsome shallow glass dish, heap the 
cooked whites in the center. Keep in a cool place until served. 
Red sugar may be sprinkled over the top if wished. 



'^^ 



ICE CREAM. — This popular dainty is more easily prepared 
than housewives generally think. A patent freezer is not 
essential. A method for freezing can easily be arranged. 
A mixture of 6 quarts of pounded ice to 1 quart of rock salt 
placed in a tub or large pail; place in this the dish containing the 
cream to be frozen; keep it constantly in motion, at the same time 
stirring the cream. Have care to keep the ice well up around the 
dish and the cream will be soon ready to serve, i. e., if the quan- 
tity be small. After the method given above do not undertake to 
freeze more than 2 quarts at a time. 

EoR LARGER quantities arrange the tub and pail as above, put- 
ting in the pounded ice and salt in layers and packing firmly about 
the inner vessel. Pour the custard or cream in, covering closely. 
Turn the pail for about five minutes, then open carefully and stir 
it well, removing all the congealed cream from the bottom and 
sides. Beat for five minutes; cover again, pack ice and salt upon 
the lid; cover with several folds of blanket or carpet and leave an 
hour. Open again carefully, turn off brine, if necessary; scrape 
the cream from the sides and beat as before. Fill the tub with 
ice and salt, packing the same over the top of the freezer. Cover 
with the blanket and leave it four or five hours. Then pour off 
the brine, if necessary, and add ice and salt. When taken from 
the ice, wrap a towel wrung from hot water around the lower part 
of the freezer, and turn out a solid coh;mn of smooth velvety 
cream. If not wanted for use at once empty the tub, set in the 
freezer and pack around with finely broken ice. If to be served 
in molds fill closely with the frozen cream, fasten securely and 
bury in ice and salt for an hour. Remove, wipe off carefully, roll 

(374) 



h 



ICE CREAM AND SHERBET. 375 

them for an instant in a towel wrung from very hot water and 
turn out. Serve at once. 

This method can only be employed where the foundation of 
the cream is made of a custard of milk and eggs. Where pure 
cream is used, and in some of the fancy creams, the freezer must 
be kept in almost constant motion and the cream beaten and 
stirred frequently, as in the first rule. Freezing twice is often 
resorted to in order to give the desired smoothness, even where 
molds are not used. Wash out the freezer and return the frozen 
cream. Pack in fresh ice and salt, and freeze one hour longer. 

Almost any flavoring essence may be used, and the cream or 
custard shoidd be sweetened very sweet, as the process of freezing 
extracts much of the saccharine matter. 

Dishes for Ices. — Modern glass is miraculously tough, still 
now and then a dish will crack suddenly when filled with frozen 
cream. A good way to prevent this is to lay a piece of wet blot- 
ting paper in the dish about fifteen minutes before it is needed. 
Evaporation will soon cool it thoroughly, and ice or ice cream 
may be laid in it without danger. 

Cochineal coloring may be used for pink creams. 

Lemon Ice Cream. — 

2 quarts thick cream. 1 pound white sugar. 

3 lemons, juice and grated rind. 

Mix together, beat well, let stand half an hour. Beat again, 
pour into the freezer and freeze after the first rule given at begin- 
ning of this department. Freeze twice if not smooth at the first 
freezing. 

Lemon Ice Cream (II). — Another recipe for lemon ice cream 
is: 1 gallon fresh milk. 2 pounds sugar. 

4 eggs, well-beaten. 1 tablespoonful lemon extract. 

Mix and freeze after the second method. Juice and grated 
rind of 2 lemons may be used instead of the extract. 

Vanilla Ice Cream. — Scald 1 quart milk with 1 sheet of isin- 
glass broken in bits and 1 vanilla bean. When cool, strain, mix 
with 1 pint of cream whipped to a froth. Sweeten with | pound 
of white sugar and freeze. If extracts are used for flavoring do 
not boil them in, but add at the last moment. 



376 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Vanilla Ice Cream (II). — Make exactly after rule given for 
Lemon Ice Cream (II), substituting vanilla for lemoi] extract. 
Chocolate Ice Cream. — 

1 gallon fresh milk. 2 pounds brown sugar. 

4 eggs, weU-beaten. | cupful grated chocolate. 

Heat 1 pint of the milk and dissolve the chocolate in this. 
Mix all together and freeze after second method given at beginning 
of chapter. Flavor, if wished, with 1 tablespoonful vanilla added 
at the last moment. 

Chocolate Ice Cream (II).— 

1 quart cream. 1 pint of milk. 

1 cupful of brown sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls grated chocolate. 

Heat the pint of milk and dissolve the chocolate in this. 
Beat the cream to a froth, stir in the milk and sugar. Flavor with 
vanilla. Freeze after the first method. Let it remain after the 
last packing for two hours. 

Rose Ice-cream.— 

1 quart of cream. 1 cupful white sugar. 

Flavor strongly with rose extract; color with cochineal color- 
ing to the desired tint. Freeze after the first method. This is 
very nice to serve with chocolate ice-cream. This may be made 
plainer by taking the rule given for Lemon Ice-cream II., substi- 
tuting rose flavoring for vanilla, and using the cochineal coloring. 

Corn-starch Ice-cream. — 

1 pint milk. Yolks 2 eggs. 

1 cupful white sugar. 1 tablespoonful corn-starch. 

Scald until it thickens. When cool add 1 pint of whipped 
cream, the stiffly beaten whites of the 2 eggs and 1 cupful sugar. 
Flavor to suit — lemon, vanilla, rose, almond, etc. Freeze after 
the Rule 11. , given at head of chapter. If cream is not to be had, 
heat 1 quart of milk as at first, adding ^ tablespoonful of corn- 
starch extra, and the beaten whites of eggs. 

Peach Ice-cream. — Slice enough mellow peaches to make 2 
quarts. Mix them with 1 pound of white powdered sugar. Let 
stand two hours, then add 2 quarts of cream well whipped. Mix 
and freeze. 1 quart of milk may be substituted for 1 of cream. 



ICE CREAM AND SHERBET. 377 

Strawberry Ice-cream.— 

1 quart of strawberries. 1 pint sugar. 

^ pint cream. i pint of milk. 

Mash the berries and sugar together; add cream and milk, rub 
through a fine strainer into the freezer. 

Fruit Ice-cream.— Fruit ice-creams of all kinds can be made 
in the above manner. Crush all the small fruits with the sugar, 
being guided as to the amount of sugar by the acidity of the fruit. 
If large fruits are used, such as pears, pine-apples, peaches, apples, 
etc., grate them. Mix with the sugar and proceed as for Straw- 
berry Ice-cream. 

Coffee Ice-cream. — 

1^ pints cream. i pint strong coffee. 

12 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

Mix the coffee and the sweetened cream. Freeze. When 
frozen beat light with a wooden spoon. ^ pint of milk may be 
substituted for ^ pint cream. 

Tea Ice-cream. — Make in the same manner as Coffee Ice- 
cream, scanting the ^ pint tea, and correspondingly enlarging the 
measure of cream and milk. 

Almond Ice-cream. — 

^ pound of almonds, weighed in the shell. 

2 ounces bitter almonds. f pound white sugar. 
1^ pints of milk. 4 eggs. 

Blanch the almonds and pound with 1 tablespoonful rose-water 
until they are a smooth paste. Add to these the eggs, well-beaten. 
Place over the fire and stir constantly until it thickens ; do not let 
it boil. Strain into a freezer. When quite frozen pack into a 
mold ; set it in ice until wanted for use. Turn out upon a glass 
dish to serve, and garnish with fruit preserved in fine syrup. 
Strawberry Ice-cream. (II.) 

1 quart strawberries. 1 quart cream, 

f pound powdered white Juice of 1 lemon, 
sugar. 
Mash the fruit through a sieve, and take out the seeds; then 
mix with the other articles and freeze. Stir in a little fresh 
milk if desirable, to freeze quickly. 



378 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Pine-apple Ice-cream.— 

1 large pine-apple. 1 pound white sugar. 

1 quart sweet cream. 
Peel, slice and mince the pine-apple very fine. Mix the sugar 
with it, and let lie two hours. Rub it through a sieve, pressing 
out all the juice. Stir cream and juice together. 

Tutti Frutti Ice-cream. — When a plain cream of any kind 
is partly frozen, fruit of any variety, chopped fine, may be added. 
Use about the same quantity of fruit as of ice-cream. Chopped 
citron, raisins, figs, any candied fruit may be added. After add- 
ing fruit freeze again. Whipped cream served with this is delicious. 
Lemon Sherbet. — 

1 gallon cream. 3 quarts cold water. 

10 lemons. 2 pounds white sugar. 

Press the juice from the lemons. Pour a little boiling water 
on the rinds; let stand a few mintes; press out and partly cool. 
Mix all together and freeze. 
Pine-apple Sherbet. 

1 can of pine-apple. 1 pint sugar. 

1 quart water. 1 tablespoonful gelatine. 

Soaked two hours in water enough to cover. Chop the fruit 
very fane; add the juice from the can, the water, sugar and the 
soaked gelatine, previously dissolved in ^ cupful boiling water. 
The juice of 1 lemon will be found an addition to the flavor. 
Freeze. 

Tutti Frutti Orange Sherbet.— 

3 pints of water. 1 pound sugar. 

6 medium-sized oranges. Juice of 1 lemon. 

4 whites of eggs. 

Make a thick syrup by boiling the sugar with a very little 
extra water. Peel and separate 3 of the oranges by the natural 
divide ; remove the seeds carefully and drop into the boiling 
syrup. Grate the yellow rinds of tlie 3 remaining oranges; squeeze 
in the juice; pour off the syrup) carefully from the scalded slices 
and set the slices in a cool place, or on ice until needed for use. 
Add the water and lemon juice to the syrup; strain into a freezer. 
When nearly frozen whip in the whites of eggs ; beat until it looks 



ICE CREAM AND SHERBET. 379 

like cream. Pack the freezer with more ice and salt. When the 
sherbet is firm enough mix the sugared orange slices in gently 
without breaking. Delicious. 

Orange Sherbet (II). — Make same as Lemon Sherbet — 
previous rule, adding the juice of 1 lemon for flavoring. 

Apricot Sherbet— 

3 cupfuls of apricots cut fine. 

1 cupful sugar. 2 cupfuls water. 

Kernels of | the apricots. 2 whites of eggs. 

If the fresh fruit be used, reserve 1 cupful of the ripest. 
Stew the other two cupfuls with the kernels in the water and sugar 
five minutes. Rub the fruit through a strainer, with the syrup; 
pour into the freezer. When nearly frozen add the whites of two 
eggs, well beaten, and turn the freezer a few minutes longer. Stir 
in the cut apricots just before serving. Canned apricots can be 
used, and if in syrup that can be added also. 

Fruit Water Ices. — Strawberry, raspberry, currant, pine- 
apple, all kinds of fruit water ices may be made in about the same 
way. — 1 quart of water to 1^ pints of the fruit juice; sweeten to the 
taste and acidity of the fruit. Put in a freezer and when partly 
congealed add the beaten whites of 2 or three eggs to each quart 
of the mixture; then finish freezing. This will be found a good 
general rule for all manner of fruit water ices. 

Lemon Water Ice.— 

1 cupful lemon juice. 2 cupfuls sugar. 

4 cupfuls water. 

When partly frozen add the whites of 2 eggs beaten to a froth 
and finish freezing. 




^MMhE BlIIJ^K^. 



GHOGOLAT^R. 

CHOCOLATE.— 
2 tablespoonfuls grated chocolate. 
2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
1 pint milk and water (half and half). 
Dissolve the chocolate in a little hot milk or water, stir in 
the milk, let boil between five and ten minutes, stirring constantly. 
If French or German chocolate is used, no sugar will he required. 
A few spoonfuls of whipped cream added jxist before serving, give 
a delicious flavor, or the cream may be brought to the table and a 
spoonful heaped on the top of each cup of hot chocolate. Serve 
with it biscuits, rolls, toast or hot crackers. All milk is sometimes 
used. 

Rae-a-haut Chocolate.— 

1 pound of chocolate, pulverized. 
1 pound rice flour. 
1 ounce arrow-root. 
Mix. Keep in a jar. When wanted for use dissolve 1 heaped 
tablespoon ful in 1 cupful of water and stir into 1 quart of boiling 
milk. Stir until it boils again. Sweeten to taste in the cups, add 
cream. More water can be used if found too rich. Very nourishing 
drink. 

Meringued Chocolate. — Make chocolate according to the 
first rule. Beat an egg separately, pour the boiling liquid over the 
beaten yolk (1 egg to a pint). Whip the whites to a stiff froth and 
put a spoonful on the top of each cupful of hot chocolate before 
serving. ^ cupful of whipped cream mixed lightly with the beaten 
white is a very great improvement. 

(380) 



TABLE DRINKS. 38 1 

Cocoa Shells. — 2 heaping tablespoonfuls of the shells to 1 
quart of boihng water. Boil twenty minutes. Serve with cream 
and sugar. 

GOFFB.R. 

Coifee. — 2 pounds of Java to 1 of Mocha is considered as 
furnishing the best coffee. The utmost care should be taken in 
browning coffee. Cool slowly, keeping the coffee from the air as 
much as possible. When partly cool, stir in a beaten egg and a 
small piece of butter. This serves to clarify the coffee in liquid. 
A pinch of salt, a bit of codfish skin, or a tablespoonful of cold water 
poured in just before serving will answer the same purpose. Keep 
in tin box or a glass can closely covered. Coffee should be gi-ound 
only as required for use. A coffee-mill attached to the wall is 
much more convenient than one that must be held while using. 
The coffee-pot must be kept clean and bright. To ensure this it 
should be washed out carefully each time after using. Boil it out 
occasionally with a strong soap-suds, or a httle baking- soda in 
pure water. If milk is used instead of cream, it should always be 
scalding hot. 

Java, Mocha and Kio in equal parts make a very good mixture 
for daily use. 

Coffee for Festfvals should be tied up in small bags with 
room to swell, not more than half a pound of coffee should be put 
in one bag. 

Coffee (Boiled). — 2 tablespoonfuls ground coffee to 1 pint of 
water. Put the required amount of coffee in the pot, pour a cupful 
of cold water over it and let steep. When the water in the tea-kettle 
boils, add the necessary amount and let it boil quickly four or five 
minutes. Long boiling does not make coffee stronger, but destroys 
its color. Pour out half a cupful before serving to clear the strainer, 
and this turned back into the can from a little distance above it, 
will usually clear the liquid perfectly. The aroma will be retained 
by closing up the spout while the coffee is boiling. If coffee 'is to 
be decanted, scald out the silver coffee-pot, or heat the urn with 
the spirit lamp before using. 

Coffee (Steeped), — Take the required amount of coffee, cover 



382 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

with cold water and set on the back of the stove. When the water 
in the tea-kettle boils, add half the desired quantity of liquid, let 
the coffee come to the boiling point, pour in the remainder of the 
water, return the coffee-pot to the back of the stove there to steep 
until ready to serve. Settle with crushed egg shells, cold water, 
etc. Sugar and cream should be put in the cup before the coffee 
is added. 

Coffee (Steamed). — Put the required amount of coffee and 
water in the coffee-pot. Set this in a kettle of boiling water. Let 
it boil half an hour or longer. The coffee will need no settling, 
and will be clear as crystal; or, a tin inside may be made for the 
coffee-pot, after the style of a dripper, only without the perfora- 
tions and somewhat deeper. Put 8 or -4 inches of water in the 
coffee-pot. Hang the inner compartment inside, and in this put 
the coffee and water. Let boil. This is one of the best ways 
known for preparing coffee, and also an economical one, as stronger 
coffee can be made from a less amount than in any other way. -'^ 

Coffee (Dripped). — Have a dripper made fitting in closely at 
the top of the coffee-pot and f as long. The bottom of tke dripper 
should be finely perforated. Put the coffee in the dripper and pour 
into it the required amount of boiling water. Do this a few 
moments before serving. Keep hot on the stove but do not allow 
to boil. A delicious and fragrant drink. 

Cafe-au-Lait. — This dainty way of preparing coffee is very 
common in France. Prepare 1 quart of strong hot coffee in any 
preferred manner. Strain into a hot urn or coffee-pot. Add an 
equal amount of boihng milk. Cover closely with a thick cloth for 
five minutes before serving. "Whip the whites of 3 eggs to a stiff 
froth. Sweeten to the taste, and put 1 large spoonful of this in 
each cup. Cafe-au-lait may be made without this last addition, 
simply using the hot coffee and milk and sweetening to taste. 

Meringued Coffee. — Make coffee after any approved formula. 
Put sugar and scalding milk in each cup and add the coffee. Have 
a meringue made by mixing the white of an egg, well beaten, with 
I pint of whipped cream. Lay a heaping spoonful on the top of 
each cup before serving. 



TABLE DRINKS. 383 

Whipped Cream. — 1 quart of milk set in a cool place twenty- 
four hours will yield cream sufficient, when well beaten, to furnish 
10 cupfuls of strong coffee. 

Substitutes for Milk or Cream.— Beat up the whole of a 
fresh egg in a basin, and then pour boiling tea over it gradually, 
stirring constantly to prevent curdling. Use enough tea with the 
egg to make it the consistency of thick cream. This is the best 
substitute for cream known. Another way is to boil milk in a 
double boiler, or in a pail set in a kettle of boiling water. Boil 
until it thickens and grows rich. The beaten yolk of an egg added 
to this makes it more creamy still. 

Rye Coffee. — Take l peck of rye ; look over carefully. Cover 
with water and let steep or boil until the grain swells, then drain 
and dry. Koast to a deep brown color, and prepare according to 
recipe for Boiled Coffee, allowing twice the time for boiling, or about 
half an hour. While boiling put in 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of molasses, 
IjpB improves color and flavor. Serve with boiling hot milk, and 
if more sweetening is necessary, add sugar at the table. This 
forms a very agreeable beverage, and will be found to agree with 
dyspeptics where coffee cannot be used. 

TRA. 

Tastes differ with regard to the flavor of tea. A good mixture 
in point of flavor is two-fifths black, two-fifths green, and one-fifth 
gunpowder. Tea retains its flavor better if kept in small tin 
canisters with closely-fitting covers. To impart a fine flavor to 
even ordinary tea, put a bit of soft paper in the canister with 1 
drop otto of roses upon it, for every pound of tea. 

In order to make a good cup of tea, M. Soyer claims that the 
tea-j)ot, with the requisite quantity of tea in it, should be put in the 
oven or over a spirit lamp to heat before adding the boiling water, 
though most housewives are content to scald the tea-pot with boiling 
water. Put in the tea in proportion of 1 teaspoonful for each per- 
son, if desired strong, otherwise less may be used. Pour on a 
cupful of freshly boiling water. Let stand five minutes to swell 
the leaves. Then fill up with the required amount of water 



384 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

counting by cupfuls until the capacity of the tea-pot becomes 
familiar. Cover closely and let steep, not boil, five minutes longer. 
Ten or more minutes will be required for all black tea, or EngUsh 
breakfast tea. Be sure that the water is positively boiling when 
poured on. Do not let tea stand. This simply liberates the tan- 
nic acid in the tea, especially when a tin tea pot is used; an 
earthen one is far better. If tin is used be sure it is kept bright. 
A French chemist recommends grinding tea like coffee, as it will 
yield nearly double the exbihuating qualities. 

Iced Tea. — Make as directed and set on ice, or simply put 
the tea in cold water, observing the same proportions as for boiling. 
Do this in the morning and set on ice until evening. Serve in 
glasses. A little lemon- juice with plenty of loaf sugar added to 
tea prepared in this manner, makes a drink that will go far toward 
rendering life endurable during the heated term. 

Iced Coffee may be prepared in the same manner. 

SHRRBRXS. 

Lemonade. — Grate the yellow rind from the lemon. Roll 
the lemons until soft, peel off the bitter white rind, cut in two and 
squeeze in a lemon-squeezer. Drop the pulp and grated rind into 
the pitcher with the juice. One large lemon or two small ohes, will 
make 4 glasses of lemonade. Stir 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar 
with the juice. Then pour in 4 glasses of water. Stir all together 
and set aside for half an hour on ice, if possible, if not, set in a 
cool place. It is nicer strained before serving, and to add still 
more to its appearance, a slice of fresh lemon may be put in each 
glass. 

Portable Lemonade.— 

1 ounce of tartaric or citric acid, 
i pound finely powdered loaf-sugar. 
20 drops of essence of lemon. 

Powder the acid and mix thoroughly with the sugar; 2 or 3 
teaspoonfuls of this in a glass of water makes a very pleasant 
lemonade. For another method see hints for cake making. 



TABLE DRINKS. 385 

Oranff''::de. — Shred the peel of 4 oranges very fine, boil ten 
minutes in 1 quart of water to which add i pound of sugar. When 
cold mix i pint of orange juice, to which the juice of 1 lemon has 
been added, with the syrup. Stram through muslin, and the 
orangeade will be ready to serve. More or less sugar may be used 
according as the fruit is sweet or otherwise. If the beverage is 
required for children less juice can be used. 

Strawberry Sherbet— 
1^ quarts of berries. 

1 large lemon. 2 teaspoonfuls orange-water. 

3 pints of water. f pomid sugar. 

Crush the berries into a bowl, squeeze in the lemon juice. 
Pour the water over this and let stand several hours. Strain, add 
the sugar and cool on ice before serving. 

Boston Cream Nectar. — 5 quarts of water boiled with 4 
pounds of granulated sugar. Let it boil briskly. When cool add * 
4 ounces of tartaric acid, and 2 tablespoonfuls of essence of lemon. 
When perfectly cool stir in the whites of 6 eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth and bottle the mixture for use. 3 tablespoonfuls of the cream 
are sufficient for a glass of water. Add a pinch of bi- carbonate of 
soda to each glass to make it foam. Put the soda in the' water 
first. Drink at once. 

Summer Chocolate. — Grind up chocolate perfectly fine. 
Add to it an equal amount of powdered white sugar and some pure 
cream, when it is ready for use with the addition of ice-water. Put 
a portion of this in glasses and fill up with water. 

HOMR BRVRRAGRS. 

Raspberry Vinegar. — Fill a stone jar with ripe berries and 
cover with pure cider vinegar. Let stand five days and strain 
through a coarse cloth. To each pint of this juice add 1 pound of 
white sugar and boil until the sugar is dissolved. (Boil about five 
minutes after it comes to the boiling point). If boiled too long it 
is apt to jeUy. Skim, bottle and seal. Stir 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls 
of this into a glass of ice-water. A delicious summer drink. 

25 » 



386 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Sweet Cider (To Keep). — Let sweet cider be heated carefully 
up to boiling point. Skim and seal up. 

Mulled ('ider. — 1 quart of boiling cider. Beat 2 eggs very 
light with enough sugar to sweeten plentifully. Pour the boiling 
cider over the eggs, stir and pour from one vessel to another until 
it foams. Serve warm. 

Koumiss, or Milk Beer.— 

1 quart of new milk. 1 gill of fresh buttermilk. 

3 or 4 lumps of white sugar. 
Mix until the sugar dissolves. Let stand in a warm place 
ten hours when it will have thickened; then pour from one vessel 
to another until it is smooth and thick. Bottle and keep in a warm 
place twenty-four hours — in winter it may take thirty- six hours. 
Cork the bottles tight; tie the corks down. Shake for a few 
minutes before using. 1 teaspooufui of yeast may be used instead 
of the buttermilk. The milk should be unskimmed. This agree- 
able beverage is recommended for a delicate stomach, as aiding in 
the assimilation of food; it is also healthful for young children. 
Cream Ginger Beer.— 

li ounces root ginger, bruised; put in a preserving bottle, 

and add 
3 lemons, sliced. 1 handful hops. 

2 quarts of cold water. 
Let the mixture boil slowly two hours. Put in a large jar — 
3 pounds sugar. 1 ounce cream-tartar. 

10 quarts lukewarm water. 1 cupful yeast. 
Whites of 6 eggs. 
Pour the boiling hot liquid over this and let stand a day or 
two before bottling; fasten the corks securely with strings. A 
healthy drink. 

Root and Bark Beer. — Gather a 4ialf bushel basket of 
spruce boughs, sassafras roots, sarsaparilla roots, sweet fern, winter 
green leaves, black birch bark, black cherry bark, dandelion and 
dock roots. Boil in 6 gallons of water with a large handful of 
hops and a quart of wheat bran. Strain through a sieve, turn in 
3 quarts of molasses, and, if very strong, add a gallon or two of 
cold water. When cool put in ^ pint yeast and when it begins to 



TABLE DRINKS. 



In three days 



work make a very slight vent for the escape of gas. 
it will be ready for use. Excellent and healthful. 
Hop Beer.— 

1 handful of hops boiled in 1 quart water; strain. 
1 teaspoonful ginger. 1 pint molasses. 

1 pailful lukewarm water. 1 cupful yeast. 
Let stand twenty-four hours ; skim and bottle for use. Re- 
freshing and medicinal in its nature. 
Harvest Drink.— 
1 cupful vinegar. 
1 tablespoonful molasses. 
4 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
1^ quarts water. 
1 teaspoonful ginger. 
Keep cool as possible. 

Raspberry, Strawberry, Currant or Orange Effervescing 
Draughts. — Take 1 quart of the juice of either of the above 
fruits; strain and boil into a syrup with 1 pound of loaf sugar 
To this add 1^ ounces of tartaric acid. When cold bottle and 
keep well corked. To use, fill a one-half pint tumbler three parts 
full of water and add 2 tablespoonfuls of the syrup. Stir in 
briskly ^ teaspoonful bi-carbonate of soda, and a very delicious 
drink will be formed. 




F^MIT^B. 



FRRSH AND GAKNRE). 

BRUITS may be served singly or together as an ornamental 
center dish. 
Apples, pears and peaches should be well rubbed with 
a clean, coarse cloth before serving. All bruised and defective 
fruit should be carefully picked out. 

Grapes should be carefully|selected and all the defective ones 
picked from the stem. Much taste and artistic skill may be displayed 
in arranging these fruits for the table. The tired housewife will 
find them a pleasing, healthful substitute for the carefully pre- 
pared dessert, while at the same time they are indispensable to the 
costly meal of many courses. 

To Keep Fresh Grapes. — Take full, perfect clusters; remove 
all unsound and unripe grapes. Spread out for a few days in an 
empty room and then pack in layers in a dry, empty box, alter- 
nating with a layer of white paper; blank nev/spaper is best. 
There should not be more than four layers in one box. Some 
prefer cut straw in which to pack grapes. Others dip the end of 
the stem of each bunch in melted sealing-wax, wrap the bunches 
in tissue paper separately, and pack in layers with paper as before 
mentioned. If the precautions mentioned first are observed, there 
will be no difficulty in preserving grapes from October to May by 
any of these methods. Keep the box or boxes in a cool dry place. 

Oranges (To Choose). — Choose oranges by weight; the heaviest 
are the best; they have the thinnest skin and more weight of juice. 
Thick skinned oranges are apt to be dry, and always weigh leea 

(388) 



FRUITS. 389 

according to their size. The sweetest and richest orange will be 
found among the rusty-coated. The Jamaica and Havana oranges 
are a pale yellow, and the juice of a more acid quality than the 
home-grown fruit. 

Oranges (To Serve). — Cut the peel of the orange in six sec- 
tions ; turn half-way down the fruit. In this way they are orna- 
mental as well as a most acceptable dessert. Oranges and grapes 
arranged together, give a pleasing effect. 

Bananas. — Bananas are very nutritious. 1 pound of this 
fruit contains, it is said, more nutriment than 3 pounds of meat 
or many pounds of potatoes. There are are many ways of serv- 
ing them. 

FmsT. — Slice the bananas and serve with cream and sugar. 

Second. — Slice, sprinkle with powdered sugar, and, before it 
dissolves, squeeze the juice of one or more oranges over them. 
Set on ice. 

TmRD. — Serve whole, alone or with other fruits. 

Fourth. — Alternate layers of peeled and sliced oranges (cut 
the oranges in circular slices), with layers of sliced bananas, 
sprinkling each layer with powdered sugar. Set on ice, if possible 
before serving. 

FRRSH FRUITS. 

Ambrosia, — 

10 oranges, peeled and sliced in circular slices. 
1 cocoanut, grated. 1 pine-apple, shced. 

Arrange the oranges and pine-apple in alternate slices, sprink- 
ling each layer with powdered sugar and grated cocoanut. Keep 
cool as possible before serving. This dish can be made without 
the pine-apple. 

Pine-apple.— Cut in dice; sprinkle thickly with sugar some- 
time before serving, that it may penetrate the fruit. Pile loosely 
in a glass dish with a circle of maccaroons or lady-fingers around 
the edge of the dish. 

Peaches. — Pare, slice and sprinkle with powdered sugar; do this 
just before serving. Send the cream around with the fruit. Set in 
a refrigerator until thoroughly chilled, if convenient. Before send- 



390 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

ing to the table sprinkle over a little more sugar. Canned peaches 
may be chilled on ice and served in the same fashion. 

Cocoanut Snow. — 1 cocoannt, grated; leave out the brown 
skin. Heap lightly in the center of an ornamental dish. Deco- 
rate the edge of the dish with smilax or some other pretty leaf, or 
vine. Serve in small dishes, putting two or three spoonfuls of 
whipped cream over each dish. Flavor the cream with rose-water, 
2 tablespoonfuls to a pint of the cream. The cocoanut may be 
served without the cream. 

Strawberries.— First— Pick over carefully; never wash unless 
absolutely necessary, and then only a few at a time, hulling after- 
ward. Sprinkle liberally with sugar some time before serving. 
Sweet cream with this fruit is delicious. 

Second,— Place a layer of berries in a glass dish; sift fine loaf 
sugar over them, then another layer of fruit, and again sugar, until 
the dish is filled. Add to the dish the juice of a fresh lemon. Before 
serving let them be gently stirred. A delicious dish. 

Raspberries and Blackberries. — Look over carefully and 
serve plain, with sugar and cream. 

Water-melon Tea Dish. — Take a fully ripe water-melon, put 
on ice until thoroughly cold ; slice, remove seeds and cut the red 
pulp in any shape preferred. Put a layer into a glass dish ; sprin- 
kle with granulated sugar; alternate melon and sugar until the 
dish is filled. Set on ice, if possible, until it is ready to serve. 
Dish out same as any other fruit. Very nice. 

Water-melons served plain should be kept on ice until wanted. 
Cut in circular slices, leaving in the rind, 

Musk-melon. — Cut in sections, from the stem downward, fol- 
lowing the natiu'al division of the melon. Remove the seeds. 
Pepper, salt and sugar are used with this fruit at pleasure. 

Melons may be taken as the first course at breakfast, or used 
as a dessert. If the stem breaks easily from a melon, this may be 
observed as an indication of ripeness. If the blossom end of a 
musk-melon is soft and elastic to the touch, there is a certainty of 
its ripeness. 

Substitute for Cream.— Pounded ice is an agreeable addi- 
tion to a saucer of strawberries, raspberries, etc. Pound in a 



FRUITS. 391 

stout cloth until it is almost as fine as snow and spread it over the 
berries. This is an excellent substitute for cream. 

Sliced Toimif OPS.— Peel and slice the tomatoes. Sprinkle 
over them finely pulverized white sugar, then add sufficient diluted 
cider vinegar to cover them, or serve with cream and sugar in the 
same manner as peaches. Vinegar, salt and pepper are prefeiTed 
by some. 

PROSTRD FRUITS- 

"" Grapes. — Select the clusters carefully. Remove any that are 
imperfect. Close bunches are better. Immerse the grapes in the 
strained, slightly beaten, whites of eggs. Tie a string to the stem 
of each cluster. Drain them partially. Roll in powdered white 
sugar until no more will adhere. Sprinkle in between the grapes. 
Hang the bunches up by the strings to dry in the sun if possible. 
A very ornamental dish for a party. Arrange on a glass stand or 
fruit dish. If on a stand, set a tall slender vase in the center with 
bright flowers, and heap the grapes around the base of it. The 
effect is very pretty, if the frosted grapes are mixed with the purple 
fruit in its natural state. 

Peaches. — The whites of 3 eggs, beaten to a froth, will be 
needed for 12 peaches. Rub smooth, and remove the pits carefully. 
To do this they must be very ripe. Dip the fruit in the egg, and then 
roll thoroughly in white sugar, powdered. D17 in the sun. When 
partly dry fill the cavities with sugar. Roll again in powdered 
sugar and finish drying. 

Oranges. — Peel the fruit and divide at the natural partings. 
Dip in beaten egg. Roll in powdered sugar and dry in the sun. 

Small Fruits. — Take cherries, clusters of currants plums, etc. 
Dip first in beaten egg, then roll in powdered white sugar, and dry 
on sheets of white paper in the sun, or a very moderate oven. 

Apples. — Pare and core juicy apples. Fill with sugar. Bake 
until nearly done. Cool. Drain and remove the fruit into another 
dish, and frost carefully with frosting spread over the top and sides 
Make the frosting as for cake. 

Crystalized Fruits.— Boil 1 cup of granulated sugar with 
1 eup of water for half an hour. The water should be boiling 



392 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

when poured on the sugar. Do not stir it. Count the time from 
the moment boiling begins. Try the syrup in water. If the 
thread is brittle the syrup is ready, if not, boil a few moments 
longer. It must boil slowly. When done set the saucepan in a 
pan of boiling water to keep the syrup from candying. Pit 
cherries and divide oranges at the natural partings. English wal- 
nuts are nice prepared in this way, other nuts also. Take the 
prepared fruit on the point of a large needle. Dip in the syrup, 
and lay on a buttered dish to dry. They may be allowed to dry 
and then dipped again if wished. Very nice. 

Candied Fruits. — Make a syrup of 1 pound of sugar and ^ 
cup of hot water. Have it in a broad, low preserving kettle, and 
prepare one layer of fruit at a time. Pare and halve peaches, plums 
and pears. Eemove the pits from cherries. Use the large variety. 
Drop them into the syrup and cook slowly until clear. Drain on a 
skimmer. Lay on plates and dry in the heating oven. In twenty- 
four hours they will be ready to pack away in a jar. Each kind of" 
fruit must be candied by itself in a fresh syrup. What little syrup 
remains over from each can be kept to flavor puddings and sauces 
Serve at a dinner party between the ice-cream and coffee. Arrange 
as large a variety of them as possible in a glass dish, each guest 
helping himself. When packing them sprinkle sugar between the 
Jayers. 

GANNRD FRUITS. 

Cans or jars for canning fruit should be of either glass or 
stoneware. The acids of many fruits acting upon tin forms a 
very unwholesome, if not positively injurious compound. 

Canned fruits in glass may be wrapped in paper to prevent 
fading. Where it is possible the new amber glass cans will be 
found a perfect preservative against the light. 

Two-quart cans or jars should only be used in large families; 
one quart and one pint cans are better for small families, as 
canned fruit does not retain its freshness long after being opened. 

Bottles may be used for small fruit or for catsups. These, 
and cans whose tops are worn out or lost, narrow -mouthed jars or 
jugs, may be used by sealing after the fruit is placed in them. 



FRUITS. 393 

Methods of Sealing. — Scald the fruit thoroughly and have 
ready three or four pieces of thin tough paper (tea paper is nice). 
Cut to fit the jars and large enough to turn over the rim. Dip 
each one in a saucer containing tlie white of egg. Press on 
quickly and tie down; add two or three more pieces after a time; 
wet in the same way on the under side; tie these down. Let dry 
and you will have an air- tight covermg for the fruit, preferred by 
many to the self-sealing tops. Be particular that the jars finished 
m this manner are kept in a dry place.that the paper may not mold. 

Sealing Wax (Second). — 1 pound resin, 1 ounce each of lard 
tallow and beeswax. Melt these ingredients together. Put the 
cork in very tight and cover over with the mixture. If necessary, 
dip a cloth in the mixture and tie firmly over the cork. 

In opening a tin can of fruit pour out the contents immediately. 
Leave exposed to the air in an open dish for some little time be- 
fore using, and if any remains over put away in an earthen dish. 

Set cans or jelly glasses on a folded towel wet in cold water, 
and pour in the boiling fruit without fear of breakage. A silver 
tablespoon put in a jar while filhng will answer the same purpose. 
To drop a teaspoon in a jelly glass is especially convenient. 

Cans that refuse to open will usually yield to a cloth wrung 
from hot water and folded around the top. If not, set .the can 
with the top downward in an inch or so of boiling water. See 
that it does not touch the glass. Or run knife under rubber. 

KuBBER rings that have hardened, maybe di'opped for one-half 
hour in a solution of one-third water and two-thirds ammonia, to 
soften. 

Porcelain -LINED kettles are the safest to use. Perfectly new 
granite ironware with none of the glaze worn off is also nice. 
For fine fruit, nothing but porcelain or bell -metal kettles should 
ever be used. Bell-metal or brass, should be very carefully em- 
ployed. Scour with sand before using. Scald with salt and vine- 
gar, rinse out and wipe. After using wash at once. Do not allow 
the fruit to stand in the kettle to cool. The result can not fail to 
be dangerous. 

Tin should never be used for canning or preserving, as it 
turns the fruit dark-colored. 



394 



THREE MEALS A DAY. 



Earthen-waee jars used for canning should always be thor- 
oughly glazed, otherwise they will not be air tight and the fruit 
will spoil. 

To TEST fruits or vegetables put up in tin cans apply the 
thumbs to both ends of the can ; if it resists pressure, the con- 
tents are well preserved. 

Juice left from canning fruit may be sealed hot in small bot- 
tles to use for fruit puddings, sauces, etc. 
CANNING. 

A GOOD GENERAL rulo in canning fruit is to use 1 pound of 
sugar to 4 pounds of fruit, and barely enough water to keep from 
burning when first put over. To be more exact the following pro- 
portions are given with time for boiling: 



TIME FOB BOrLlNG. 


QUANTITY 


OF SUGAR 




TO QUABT. 


10 minutes. 


5 ounces. 


20 


6 


" 


6 


6 


" 


5 


6 


" 


8 


8 


" 


8 


8 


" 


10 


5 


" 


10 


4 


" 


15 


6 


" 


30 


10 


" 


10 


10 


" 


15 


6 


" 


10 


8 


" 


15 


10 


" 


6 


4 


" 


10 


8 


" 


25 


8 


" 


20 


— 


" 


5 


4 


" 



Apples, sour, quartered.. 

Bartlett pears, halved 

Blackberries 

Cherries 

Currants, ripe 

Gooseberries. 

Grapes, ripe 

Peaches, halved 

Peaches, vi^hole 

Pears, small, sour, whole. 

Pie-plant, sliced 

Pine-apples, sliced 

Plums .. 

Quinces, sliced 

Raspberries 

StrawbeiTies 

Siberian crab- apples 

Tomatoes, sliced 

Whortleberries 



GONDRNSRD CANNING. 

Pack the cans full of fruit. Screw the covers on lightly, and 
stand each can on a little block of wood placed in the bottom of 
the boiler. Fill as many cans as will stand in the boiler. Put 
sugar enough in each one to sweeten for the table. Fill the boiler 
with cold water nearly to the top of the cans. Boil twenty or 
twenty-live minutes. When the fruit will be found to have settled 



FRUITS. 395 

somewhat, remove part of the cans; open and take one to fill up 
the others. Screw tightly and proceed in the same way until all 
are filled. It will take about 3 out of 12 to fill those that have 
settled. Let stand all night and tighten the covers in the morning. 
It is better not to put the rubber rings on the cans until after they 
have been boiled and re-filled. There is no danger of breakage in 
this way, and the cans are almost solid fruits, thus gaining in 
space. In preparing for the table they can be diluted with hot 
water to the desired consistency and sweetened to taste, or served 
as they are. Some cook-books advocate canning without sugar, 
but fruit is never quite as nice prepared in this way, and it should 
be sweetened partially, at least, when first canned. 

Peas, beans and tomatoes are excellent canned in the same 
way ; corn also. Fill the cans as for fruit, omitting sugar. Boil 
the same way until they are sufficiently cooked; fill each can with 
hot water. Screw down tight and set away. Some housekeepers 
prefer to cook the vegetables ten or fifteen minutes, then fill the 
cans and finish cooking. Canned in this manner, fruits will not 
lose flavor as in the usual way. Small fruits of all description 
may be canned in this manner. 

Canned Fruit (II). — Fill the jars with the raw fruits and 
put them in a boiler as above. Let cook until half done, and then 
open the cans and fill up with a nice syrup made of sugar and 
water. Have this boiling hot when poured over the fruit. Screw 
up the cans and set away. By having the syrup very rich a deli- 
cious preserve may be had, and the fruit has the added advantage 
of looking fresh and nice instead of becoming a pulpy mass. 
Always try the cans after setting away. New cans sometimes 
need to be tried more than once. Other methods of canning fruits 
are also given. 

GrapeS) (To Can). — Press the pulp from the skin. Save the 
skins. Put the pulps in a porcelain kettle with a very little water. 
Boil until the seeds begin to separate. Then rub through a coarse 
gieve held ov«r a large pan, using the back of a wooden spoon. 
Put the pulp and skins back in the kettle; sweeten to taste and 
can, sealing up hot. 

FearS) (To Can). — Peel the pears, cut in halves or leave whole 



396 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

as preferred. Throw into cold water as they are pared, to keep 
them from blackening. Put a steamer with a plate inside over 
boHiug water. Pile the plate with pears and steam until a straw 
can be run through them easily. WhQe they are steaming, make 
a syrup in the proportions of 1 large cupful of sugar, to 1 pint of 
water. When done fill the cans with fruit. Pour in syrup until 
the cans are full and seal. 

Peaches, (To Can). — Peel, halve, remove pits and steam as 
directed for pears. Prepare the syrup the same, cover the fruit 
with it and seal up as above. Peaches may be pared more easily 
by pouring boiling water over them, turning it off instantly and 
covering them with cold water. This will simplify the matter, but 
can only be used where the fruit is firm. A few peach kernels in 
each can improves the flavor. 

Elderberries, (To Can.) — To 7 pounds of the berries, add 3 
pounds of sugar and 1 pint of good vinegar. Stew and can. Keep 
in a cool place. Nice for pies or sauce. The juice of wild grapes 
can be thoroughly scalded and used instead of vinegar. Nice for 
pies or sauce. 

Apples and Raisins, (To Can). — Make a nice sauce from 
tart-apples, cook quite smooth. Bell Flowers are the best. This 
is a nice way to keep them when they begin to spoil. To each 
can of this sauce add 1 or 1^ cupfuls nice raisins. Put in when 
the fruit first begins to cook. This adds both to flavor and appear- 
ance. Or make a nice sauce and can without raisins. 

Pie Plant (To Can). — Cut in small pieces, sweeten well and 
stew until tender, as for sauce. Fill the cans. Seal. 

Plums (To Can). — Pack quart cans compactly with fruit, 
fill up with cold water and put on the covers lightly. Set the cans 
in cold water. Let this boil ten minutes. Screw on the covers 
while the jars are hot, and set away in a cool, dark place. Add 
sugar when used. If for sauce stew until done. 

Cherries for Winter Use. — Take fresh ripe cherries, re- 
move the stems and put them into wide-mouthed bottles, filling 
nearly full. Then pour in New Orleans molasses to cover com- 
pletely; fasten up the bottles with two or three thicknesses of egg- 
paper, driving in first a closely-fitting cork, as it will be necessary 



FRUITS. 397 

to shake them occasionally in order to mix the contents well. 
Some of the molasses will be absorbed by the cherries which will 
render them sufficiently agreeable to be made into puddings or pies 
without the addition of further sweetening. Any of the molasses 
remaining in the jar will be found pleasantly flavored, so that the 
addition of some of it to a glass of water forms a refreshing drink. 

Wild Grapes, for Winter Use. — Pick the grapes from the 
stem; fill into a jar and cover with New Orleans molasses. Nice 
for winter pies. 

Strawberries (To Can). — All berries are canned after much 
the same fashion. Either use one or the other of the two rules 
given at the beginning of this division, or proceed as follows: 

Put the berries in a porcelain kettle. Heat slowly; as they 
commence boihng add sugar according to the table given at begin- 
ning of this chapter. If strawberries, boil eight or ten minutes 
before putting in the sugar; dip out any extra juice. Can hot, and 
seal at once. 

Tomatoes (To Can). — Pour boiling water ovcJ. the tomatoes 
to loosen the skin. Peel, crush each tomato in the nandr this 
wrings out the juice in a way that cannot be accomplished by 
slicing. When enough are prepared, let them stand awhile and 
pour off the accumulated juice; press a plate on them and pour 
off the remainder of the juice. Let them boil up several times 
in the preserving-kettle; skim and can. Stone jars, jugs, and 
glass cans may be used. Some prefer to season them slightly 
with salt before canning. 

To serve tomatoes prepared in this way, all that is necessary 
is to heat them sufficiently to melt the butter. Thicken sUghtly 
with broken crackers, toast or stale bread. Tighten the can- 
covers before putting awriy, and wrap glass cans in paper to pre- 
vent fading. 

Pumpkin (To Can). — Steam the pumpkin, first shcing and 
removing seeds; leave in the shell. When done, scrape from the 
shell. Mash, fill into cans, hot, being careful that no air bubbles 
remain in filling the can. Seal up. It can be prepared for pies 
the same as fresh pumpkin, from which it cannot be told. Instead 
of steaming, it may be baked and scraped from the shell. 



398 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Canning without Cooking. — 

6 ounces of sugar. 

86 grains salicylic acid (this can be bought at any drug 

store, and is perfectly harmless). 

Dissolve the acid in 1 cupful quite warm water. Pack 12^ 

quarts of fruit tightly in a jar; pour the water and acid over; 

tie the cover down tightly. The fruit will be fresh as when first 

gathered. Sweeten to taste. 

Canning Corn. — Cut the com from the cob; scrape the cob 
and can according to the first rule for condensed canning. 

This will be found an extra way. The corn will be so solid in 
the can that it will have to be loosened with a spoon, and will only 
need cooking sufficiently to heat the butter and other seasoning. 

PRUIT SAUGR- 

Earthen crocks or porcelain-lined kettles, are the best in 
which to cook all kinds of fruit, preserves, jellies, marmalades, 
jams, etc. Water boiled in a new crock several times will harden 
the glaze. Put in cold and let it come to a boihng point gradually. 

A COMPOTE of fruit is about half as rich as preserves. 

Apples, if of the right flavor, are excellent with the use of su 
gar alone. Some apples are improved by mixing with apricots, 
or quinces. Care should be taken in cooking. Apple marmalade 
is improved by the addition of lemon juice. Ground cinnamon, 
nutmeg and the grated rind of a lemon are the usual flavors. 
Butter gives a rich flavor to hot apple-sauce. Sugar should be 
cooked in with the boiling sauce and some added when cold. 
Cream may be served with boiled apples. Care should be taken to 
have the knife very bright with which apples are pared. Let the 
paring be done quickly as possible. Do this to avoid the blacken- 
ing which takes place if the fruit is too long in contact with the 
steel blade. 

By putting a little cooking-soda in with rhubarb or gooseber- 
ries, while cooking, sugar will be saved. 

Fruits, if over-ripe, must be cooked but little and taken from 
the fire the moment they are done ; a trifle underdone is better 



FRUITS. 399 

than cooked too much. All green or unripe fruits are irajDroved 
by starting them in cold water, and cooking or simmering slowly 
(without stirring), for a long time. The long, slow cooking makes 
the fruit taste sweeter and riper. 

Potted Apples. — Pare the apples. Core. Cut into quarters 
or eights and put into a small jar in layers. Sprinkle sugar over 
each layer and add to each, two or three bits of butter. Fill almost 
to the top. Add ^ cupful water to a half gallon jar. Tie the top 
down and bake in a slow oven two hours or more. This makes a 
delicious dessert served with sweetened cream, or without. 

Jellied Apples. — Arrange sliced apples in a pudding dish as 
above omitting the butter and water. Cover with a plate that slips 
inside the rim of the dish and fits down tightly upon the apples. 
Bake in a very moderate oven three to four hours. The sliced 
apples will be found covered and surrounded with a clear jelly. 
Turn over on to a dish, and if the apples were good, it will remain 
in form. Nice for dessert. Leave in the dish until perfectly cold 
before turning out. If prepared the day before it is wanted the 
result will be better. Serve with or without cream. 

Apple Compote. — Fill a jar with mellow apples. Pare and 
core them first. Squeeze in the juice of i lemon, and throw 1^ 
cupfuls sugar over them. Cover closely. Tie down and keep in a 
moderate oven from four to five hours. Nice either hot or cold. 

Spiced Apples. — Take 2 dozen nice cooking apples, pare and 
core them, quai-ter and put in a porcelain kettle or an earthen 
crock. Add enough water to come half way up on the apple, and 
1 pound sugar, ^ cupful vinegar and 1 tablespoonful ground cinna- 
mon. Throw in 6 or 7 whole cloves, and a little grated nutmeg if 
convenient, say ^ of one. Cover and simmer over a slow fire until 
thoroughly tender. 

Boiled Apples. — Select perfect apples, a pleasant tart. Wipe 
dry. Leave on the peeling. Put in a sauce pan and partly cover 
with water. Sweeten to the taste. Cook until the apples are 
thoroughly tender. Do not let them break much. Take the apples 
out when done. Put in a dish. Cook the syrup. Sweeten more 
if necessary, and pour over the apples. The core and skin give a 
different flavor to the sauce. 



400 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Baked Apples. — Bake tart apples in a bread tin. Remove 
when done. If left in the oven too long they become dry and lose 
flavor. A little water may be added in baking sweet apples. If 
sweet apples are used they are very nice to eat with milk. If 
the apples are tart, sprinkle sugar over them in the tin. Even 
imperfect apples may be baked by quartering and removing the 
cores. Fill closely in the pan. Pour in a little water. Sprinkle with 
sugar and bake. Some prefer this to stewed apples. Leave the 
peel on. 

Baked Sweet Apples. — Peel carefully. Put in a pan. Cover 
closely with a lid, or another pan. Add a cupfiil of water and bake 
until tender. Remove the apples and put _n a ;"ar or bowl with a 
cover, and keep warm. Add a cupful of sugar for each cupful of 
the apple juice, and boil fast until it is a thick syrup. Do not stir. 
Add as many cloves as there are apples, and I'our hot over the fruit 
in the jar. Set away covered until the next day. Turn out in a 
dish and serve. It ought to be a perfect mold. Very nice. Cream 
may be served with it. 

Cider Apple Sauce. — 

^ bushel sweet apples. 4 pounds of sugar. 

A few quinces. 

Put in sweet cider enough to cover the apples. Boil and skim 
for four or five hours. This is superior to the old-fashioned boiled 
cider apple-sauce, made of cider that had been boiled down sepa- 
rately. 

The quinces may be omitted, and some tastes would prefer 
little or no sugar. Of course the cider can be boiled down before- 
hand if liked. 

Dried Apple Sauce. — Dried apples cook a little easier by 
being soaked over night, but they can be cooked without, by putting 
in a crock and setting on the back of the stove at first. They need 
four or five hours cooking. Considerable water should be put on at 
first, and more hot water added as required. They are much 
improved by ^ pounds currants (Zante), or ^ pound raisins, to each 
pound of apples. A few slices of fresh lemon improves the flavor. 
Sweeten well. 

Evaporated Apples. — The flavor of these is quite like the 



FRUITS. ' 401 

fresh frnit. hy cooking witli a little lemon juice in the water. Soak 
in cold water over night. Stew in plenty of water in a dish closely 
covered. Let the surplus be nearly if not quite evaporated. 
Sweeten to the taste with white sugar. 

Apple Sauce. — Peel and slice the apples. Partly cover with 
water and stew until smooth as possible. Beat with a spoon until 
perfectly smooth. Use tart apples, and add a very little hot water 
if any more is necessary while cooking. Sweeten to the taste. 
Flavor with lemon juice .or lemon peel. 

Apple Sauce with Jelly. — Make sauce as above, using very 
nice apples, sweeten with white sugar, beat perfectly smooth. 
Serve with spoonfuls of bright colored jelly laid over the top. In 
serving, put a piece of jelly on each sauce-dish. This with plain 
cake for a light dessert is nice. 

Stewed Apples. — Quarter and core the apples, put over with 
sugar, a tablespoonful of butter and a sprinkle of flour. Add 
water to partly cover. Let them cook quite dry before serving. 

A Delicious Dish of Apples. — Bake sweet apples and pour 
over them sweet cream, flavored with lemon, vanilla, or nutmeg. 
Sugar with the cream to taste. 

Fried Apples. — Take smooth-skinned, fair apples. Wash 
and wipe them, slice in round slices and fry in hot pork drippings 
or sausage gravy. Serve with sausage or steak and keep the slices 
perfect as possible; or take mellow tart-apples, peel, core and 
slice. Put in a sauce pan with a lump of butter and cook until a 
pulp. Serve hot, allowing each person to sweeten according to 
taste. 

Stewed- Quinces. — Pare and cut in quarters, remove cores 
and put in a stew-pan with half enough water to cover them. Let 
boil tender, keeping the pan closely covered. Add ^ pound of 
sugar to each pound of cut quinces, and let them stew, still closely 
covered until the syrup is thick. This may be made ^ sweet 
apples. 

Baked Quinces. — Take whole ripe quinces and bake with 
the skins on. When done thoroughly, remove the skins. Sift 
over plenty of sugar, and a lump of butter on each. Serve hot; 
or omit the butter and use cream instead, in which case serve 

26 



4u2 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

either hot or cold. Baking entirely removes the strong taste of 
the quince, leaving only a delicate flavor in its place. An appetiz- 
ing dish. 

Dried Berries, (To Stew). — 2 cupful s'^of berries to 4 cups 
of cold water, let boil slowly thirty minutes. Sweeten to suit the 
taste. Easpberries, blackberries, currants, etc., are susceptible to 
the same rule. 

Cranberry Saace. — Wash and pick over 1 quart of cranber- 
ries, put in a porcelain kettle or a bright sauce pan. Spread 2 
cupfuls of sugar over them, pour in 1 small cup of cold water. 
Cover and simmer at the back of the stove one-half hour. Never 
stir until taken from the stove. They burn easily and should not 
be kept in a hot place. Never cook cranberries before putting 
in the sugar. Graduate the sugar according to the required rich- 
ness. 

Jellied Cranberries, (For Game.) — Pick over and cook in 
the proportions of 1 pound of berries, to 1 pound of granulated 
sugar and | pint of cold water. Put the water, and sugar on the 
range to boil, stirring constantly. When boiling throw in the 
berj'ies, they will soon heat through and begin to burst. Stir fre- 
quently until well cooked. It will take ten or fifteen minutes after 
they begin to boil. Turn in a mold, that has been previously 
rinsed in cold water and not dried, and let stand until the next 
day. The above recipe makes cranberries neither too acid nor too 
sweet; will invariably turn out like jelly, and is very nice to serve 
with game or poultry, as the whole berry is preserved. As many 
as ten pounds can be prepared at once, and will keep perfectly by 
putting in bowls and pasting over with paper dipped in egg. 

Ruby Sauce, (Cranberry). — 1 quart of cranberries and 2 
quarts of cold water. Put in a porcelain kettle or a stone crock. 
Cover closely. Boil twenty minutes over a hot fire. Remove from 
stove, add sugar imtil the juice is sweet, and then put in all the 
applts pared, cored and quartered, that the juice will cover. Stew 
moderately until the apples are tender but not broken, and have 
absorbed the juice until they are ruby colored. This sauce is deli- 
cious, inexpensive, excellent for tarts or pies, and keeps well. 

Baked Rhubarb. — Wash, strip and cut in inch pieces, place 



FRUITS. 403 

in a stone crock. Cover well with white sugar. Use no water. 
Put in the oven and bake one-half hour. Delicious. 

Stewed Peaches, (Fresh). — Make a syrup of 1 cupful of 
sugar and 1 cupful of water. Add 1 tablespoonful of lemon juice 
and the kernels of 3 peaches, blanched and split. Peel 6 or 7 
peaches and put them whole in the syrup. Stew gently twenty 
minutes. Pour into a dessert dish, and leave to get thoroughly 
cold before serving. 

Peach Compote. — Take some firm, free-stone peaches, cut 
them into halves, remove the stones and dip the halves in boiling 
water. Then, after taking oflF the skins, cook them in hot syrup, 
allowing them to boil up twice, when they will be done. Then 
dish them up, strain the syrup through a sieve and pour it over 
the peaches. The compote may be served either hot or cold. 

Fried Peaches. — Take peaches not wholly ripe, slice a trifle 
thicker than apples and fry in precisely the same manner. 

To Prepare Fi'uit for Children. — Put plums or currants, 
sliced apples, gooseberries or any other fruit into a stone jar, 
sprinkle among them as much sugar as necessary. Set the jar in 
a moderate oven, pouring in 1 cupful of water to prevent the fruit 
burning. Slices of bread may be put in layers alternately with 
the fruit, and may be eaten with the sauce. Cook until thoroughly 
done. This will be found wholesome and palatable. 

Dried Peaches, (Stewed). — Dried peaches are to be prepared 
the same as dried apples, usiug no flavoring, less water, sweetening 
to taste. 

Stewed Prunes. — Wash carefully. If very dry, soak over 
night; if not, cover with cold water and set on the back of the 
range to warm slowly. Let simmer gently a couple of hours; 
sweeten to the taste before removing from the stove. Pit them. 




FldKkEB ^MQ YmEGJI^. 



CIDER vinegar should be used for pickles if obtainable. 
Other vinegar frequently softeiis the pickles. If the vin- 
egar is too strong dilute with water. 

Jars that pickles are kept in should never have held any kind 
of grease. 

Pickles that are put in cans, and sealed hot, are certain to 
keep. This plan should always be pursued when practicable. 

Pickles should never be allowed to freeze. 

Boil pickles, where necessary, in porcelain-lined or stone 
vessels; never in metal. 

Pickles already made can be preserved by putting in a few 
roots of horse-radish. If the vinegar is pure and clear when 
made, they may be kept clear for months. 

Brine for putting down pickles should be strong enough to 
bear an egg. 1 pint of coarse salt to 1 gallon of water is about 
right. 

Horse-radish sliced fresh into pickles that have already 
scummed will soon sink to the bottom, carrying the scum with 
them, thus leaving the vinegar clear. 

A CLUSTER or two of green grapes, added to pickles, will pre- 
serve the strength of the vinegar. 

Pickles of all kinds should be stirred occasionally, and if 
there are any soft ones among them they should be taken out and 
the vinegar scalded and turned back hot. If this is very weak, 
new vinegar should be heated and turned on instead. 

To KEEP pickles FIRM. — ^ bushcl of grape leaves added to 1 
barrel of pickles in brine will keep them sound and firm. 

Mustard seed will prevent mold from forming in vinegar. 

A LITTLE BAG of grouiid mustard laid in the top of the pickle- 

(404) 



PICKLES AND VINEGAR. 405 

jar will prevent vinegar from becoming moldy that has been used 
on pickles without boiling. 

Cut off cucumbers when wanted. Pulling or twisting them 
off injures the vines. 

SOUR PIGKLaRS. 

Cucumber Pickles. — 500 small cucumbers (if large ones 
are used a smaller number will be required), 3 gallons of vinegar, 
3 quarts of salt, 6 ounces of alum, 2 ounces of allspice, ^ pouad 
of black pepper, 1 ounce cloves, horse-radish cut in strips, sugar 
according to the strength of the vinegar. Put the cucumbers and 
horse-radish in alternate layers in a large stone jar. Throw the 
salt over them and cover with boUing water. Let stand twenty- 
four hours in this brine, then pour off and rinse in cold water. 
Boil the spices and vinegar and pour over them. In two weeks 
they will be ready for use. Delicious hard pickles that are not 
affected by age or cKmate. 

Best Cucumber Pickles. — Take a five-gallon jar, put in a 
layer of green grape leaves, then a layer of green grapes picked 
from the stem, then a layer of cucumbers. Eepeat this operation 
until the crock is full ; then add cinnamon, allspice, ginger and 
red peppers ; cover with pure soft water. Tie a cloth on the jar 
and let it stand nine days. Then add a cupful of sugar, or more 
if needed. Excellent. 

Cucumber Pickles (Mixed). — Wash and drain them; put 
in a jar with alternate layers of green tomatoes and common- 
sized green peppers; cover "vsnth a boiliug-hot brine made in the 
proportion of 1 pint of coarse salt to 1 gallon of water. Let 
stand twenty-four hours. Drain, rinse in cold water and pour 
over them spiced vinegar. Have this boiling hot. Add a few 
roots of sliced horse-radish, before poitring on the vinegar. 

The mustard pickle is excellent also. 

Cucumber and Apple Pickles. — Put a layer of cucumbers 
in a barrel, then a layer of crushed apples, and so on alternately 
until the barrel is full. Place a hea\-y weight on the pickles. If 
the inice does not cover, put in a httle rain water. 



4o6 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Cucumber Pickles (Mustard). — Take 300 small cucumbers , 
1 dozeu large green peppers, sliced; 3 large heads of cauliflower, 
divided as much as possible; 3 quarts of small onions, 2 quarts of 
shced green tomatoes. Cover with a boiling brine ; let stand over 
night and then drain in a colander for five hours. Boil the cauli- 
flower and onions five minutes in a little vinegar. After this 
place in jars and pour over them the following seasoning: 1 gal- 
lon of vinegar, ^ pound of celery seed, ^ pound of whole allspice, 
i- pound of whole black pepper. Tie the spices in a cloth and 
boil in the vinegar for some time. Eemove these, then add 1 
pound of sugar, ^ pound of mustard; mix smooth with a little 
vinegar. Let boil fifteen minutes, stirring constantly. 1 quart of 
string beans cut in pieces may be added to the other ingredients. 
Pom- over the whole of the liquid, boiling hot. The pickles maybe 
canned. Add 2 or 3 bay leaves before pouring on the vinegar, if 
desired. . 

To Freshen Cucumber Pickles.— For those who follow 
the old method of putting down pickles in salt, and freshening for 
use, some rapid means of freshening is desirable. Place a few in 
a jar, cover with boiling water and let cool. Eepeat this opera- 
tion three times. Then cover with plain vinegar boiling hot, or 
with the spiced vinegar, this also should be boiling when tui-ned 
on. The sweetened vinegar left from sweet tomato pickles may be 
heated and poured boiling hot over cucumber pickles, and will be 
found very nice, or the mustard pickle quite as good. 

Fall Pickles. — Take fi-esh cucumbers, put in brine three or 
four days, take out and soak over night in warm water. Scald them 
up in vinegar, enough to cover. Drain, pack in a jar, andjjour over 
them boiling hot vinegar spiced to suit. Put a few roots of horse- 
radish, sliced, among them. Tie up. They will keep a long time 
if made late. If the vinegar used in the first scalding is still sour, 
it may be used in scalding up another lot. 

Mustard Pickle. — To be used with various pickles. 1 ounce 
each of cloves, allspice, black pepper and tumeric, 1 pound groimd 
mustard (be sure the mustard is pure), f pound sugar, 1 gaUon of 
vinegar. Tie the spice in a thin cloth and boil in the vinegar, 
after reserving one quart ot it to mix with the mustard. Take out 



PICKLES AND \'IXKGAR. ^07 

the spice aud stir tlie turmeric aud mustard smooth with the boiling 
vinegar, first bleudiug the mustard with the reserved cold vinegar. 
Pour this preparation boihug hot over the pickles. Bottle and cork 
tightly, or tie up closely. 

Chow-Chow. — Pick apart 2 large cauliflowers, 2 quarts, of 
green cucumbers (small ones if possible), if not, large ones, cut in 
pieces; 2 quarts of green tomatoes, if large slice them; 1 quart of 
small onions, or large onions shced, 5 large green peppers aud 2 
red ones cut fine, 1 quart string beans cut in two. Put the cucum- 
bers in brine until the next day. Drain. Scald tomatoes, cauli- 
flower and beans in salt and water until partially tender. Then 
drain in a colander. Mis all together thoroughly, adding the 
peppers, and fill the cans. Then take 3 quarts of vinegar, 2 cup- 
fuls sugar, | cupful flour, 1 ounce celery seed, 1 stick cinnamon, 
14: heaping tablespoonfuls mustard. Mix the mustard.with some 
cold vinegar, and the flour smooth in the same way. Let the vine- 
gar boil, and stir in the other ingredients. Scald, stirring con- 
stantly, and turn over the pickles boiling hot. Seal at once. In 
the absence of cauliflower, the heart and white portions of a very 
firm cabbage head may be used in amount equalling 2 quarts, when 
shredded. The beans may be omitted if difficult to obtain. If 
there is not enough liquid, add boiling vinegar. Some prefer to 
add 1 bottle of the imported chow-chow to the pickles before putting 
in the cans to give a better flavor. Mix it thoroughly with the rest. 
Pack in the cans and turn on the scalding mustard vinegar. One 
dozen ears of sweet corn cut from the cob, may be added. 

Mixed Chow-Chow. — Take radish pods, green peppers, long 
and round, green grapes, nasturtium seeds, green peaches, green 
cherries, green string-beans, button onions, cauliflower, picked 
apart, and very small cucumbers. Pour over them a hot, strong 
brine and let stand four days, then remove from the brine to drain. 
Make either the mustard pickle or the spiced vinegar in sufficient 
quantity to cover the pickles. Heat boiling hot and pour over them. 
Keep covered from the air, but it is not necessary to seal. 

French Pickles. — i quarts green tomatoes (small), 1 quart 
small onions, 1 quart small cucumbers, 1 small head of cabbage, 
shred fine; 1 head of cauliflower, picked apart; 2 dozen oars of 



4oS THREE MEALS A DAY. 

sweet corn, cut from the cob; 1 dozen green peppers, cut fine. Let 
them stand twenty-four hours in a light brine, i the ordinary 
strength, then boil ten minutes in the brine and drain very dry in 
a colander. Pack them in glass cans and pour over them the fol- 
lowing mustard pickle : 6 tablespoonf uls mustard, 1 teacupful of 
flour, 1 tablespoonful of turmeric for coloring, 2 cupfuls white 
sugar. Mix these with water enough to form a smooth paste. 
Bring to a boiling point, 5 pints of vinegar and 1 pint of water. 
Stir in this paste and cook until it thickens, stirring all the time. 
It should almost be as thick as boiled custard. Poiu* boiling hot 
over the pickles and seal immediately. 

Picca-lilli. — I bushel green tomatoes, chopped; 2 heads of 
cabbage, chopped; 2 dozen large cucumbers, chopped; 2 dozen 
large green peppers, shredded; 2 dozen large onions, chopped. 
Sprinkle 1 pint of salt over and through this mixture, and let stand 
all night. A sausage mill is best for chopping if one is handy. In 
the morning di-ain through a colander, or turn the w^hole mixture 
into a clean flour sack and press as dry as possible. (In chopping 
the tomatoes and cucumbers drain off as much juice as possible). 
Put in a large pan, and mix with it ^ pound black mustard seed, ^ 
pound w4iite mustard seed, 1 ounce of celery, or 4 heads of celery, 
chopped fine; 2 cupfuls brown sugar, 2 cupfuls of grated horse- 
radish, 1 gallon of best cider vinegar, 1 tablespoonful each of 
cinnamon and allspice. Put over the fire and let cook one and a 
half hours after it begins to boil. Cook in porcelain kettle or. stone 
jar. It is better to divide the quantity than to run the risk of 
scorching on the bottom. Tliis pickle may be made without the 
cucumbers, i pound of mustard blended with a little cold water 
may be added about five minutes before taking from the stove. 
The mustard makes a palatable addition, but may be omitted if 
desired. If 6 of the peppers are red the contrast in color is pleas- 
ing. Will keep without sealing. If red cabbage is used instead 
of white, the whole pickle will be a beautiful color. 

Sweet Picca-lilli. — j bushel of green tomatoes, 2 heads of 
cabbage, 12 green peppers. Chop fine and pack in jars with alter- 
nate layers of salt. Let stand over night. Next morning drain, 
press lightly. Mix the following spices with the chopped pickles: 



PICKLES AND VINEGAR. 409 

3 tablespoonfuls of ground black pepper, 4 tablespoonfiils of cin- 
namon, 3 tablespoonfuls allspice, 2 tablespoonfuls of cloves, 1 
cupful mustard seed. Pack in jars, then scald; 3 pounds of sugar 
with enough vinegar to cover, and turn over them boiling hot. 

Quick Mustard Pickles. — Slice green cucumbers same as 
for the table, but not too thin. Sprinkle a very little salt on them, 
and let remain over night. Drain ; put alternate layers of mustard 
and cucumbers in the jar until full. Cover with vinegar, place 
a cloth covered with mustard over them. Tie down closely. They 
will be ready for use in a week. The vinegar is nice to use with 
meat. 

Tomato Chowder. — 2 dozen large tomatoes, 1 dozen green 
peppers, 8 common-sized onions (chop fine). Add 3 cupfuls of 
vinegar, 1 tablespoonful salt (level), 3 tablespoonfuls sugar (heap- 
ing), 1 teaspoonful allspice, 2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon, 1 teaspoon- 
ful cloves. Tie the ground spices in a thin cloth. A little chop- 
ped horse-radish may be added before seaUng the pickle. Boil the 
whole two hours slowly. It is better to seal, but will keep without. 

Melon Maugoes. — Take green mnsk-melons or nutmeg-melons. 
Pour over them boiling brine. Let stand one week. Then scrape 
the outside, cut out one section, remove the seeds and scrape the 
inside. Make a filling of chopped cabbage (part red cabbage im- 
proves the color), and chopped green tomatoes, little onions, radish 
pods, pickled nasturtium seeds, young string beans, little peppers, 
tiny green cucumbers and chopped horse-radish. Any or all of 
these may be used. The more, the nicer the mangoes. Spice with 
mustard seed, a few pepper-corns and two or three cloves to each 
melon. Moisten this mixture with vinegar and fill each melon 
compactly. Replace the cut section and tie up well with cotton 
cord. Pack the melons in a jar and cover with the following 
pickle: 2 quarts of vinegar cider, 2 cupfuls of brown sugar, 1 
tablespoonful cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful cloves, 1 tablespoonful 
allspice. Let this come to a boil and pour over the melons. 
Twice the quantity may be made, if necessary, or ^^ of it 
according to the amount of mangoes. Very nice. Serve in a 
pickle-dish. Remove the cord and lay the cut section by the side. 
When, serving give each person a portion of the melon, and a little 



4IO THREE MEALS A DAY. 

of the filling. If too much of this filling is prepared for the 
quantity of melons, pour scalding vinegar over it and use for a 
quick pickle. The mangoes can be used in a month. 

Mango Peppers. — Take large green peppers (sweet peppers 
are best). Slit down one side, lemove the core and seeds as care- 
fully as possible. Place the shells in salt water five days ; remove 
and drain. Chop cabbage, onions, red cabbage, green tomatoes, 
a few slices of carrots, some horse-radish, a little green corn, 
celery seed and mustard seed. Regulate the proportions of each 
ingredient to the taste. Fill out the pepper to the natural size. 
Sew up carefully. Cover with cold spiced vinegar, or with plain 
vinegar seasoned slightly. Place a light weight upon them to 
keep under the vinegar; tie up tightly. They will keep ue til warm 
weather. If packed in cans covered with scalded, spiced, or plain 
vinegar, and sealed, they will keep a long time. Remove the thread 
before serving. 

Sliced Tomato Pickles. — Take large, smooth, green toma- 
toes. Cut off and reject a small slice at stem and blossom end, 
cut the remainder in slices. To every 4 tomatoes, allow 1 
onion sliced. Put layers in a jar with a slight sprinkling of salt 
between each layer, let stand over night. In the morning 
remove, drain, and pack in jars. Cover them with spiced vinegar, 
poured over boiling hot. 

Commercial Pickles. — Boil in 2 quarts of vinegar, 2 large 
tablespoonfuls of salt, 2 ounces of shallots or onions, 1 ounce of 
black pepper, ^ ounce of Cayenne pepper, 1 ounce of mustard seed 
(some add 1 ounce of ginger root), 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Take a jar that will hold fom* or five quarts, and pour into it this 
pickle. When cold put into it any freshly gathered vegetable that 
may offer. Cauliflower buds, asparagus, radish pods, very small 
cucumbers, little onions, tender string beans, unripe grapes, un- 
ripe gooseberries and apples, small green tomatoes, putting them 
in as opportunity offers. If the pickle wastes, it should be replen- 
ished with the same mixture. 

Easy Pickles. — Take a jar with a close lid, half fill it with 
the best vinegar, then, as spare vegetables of any kind come to 
hnnd, such as small cucumbers, small green tomatoes, cauliflower, 



PICKLES AND VINEGAR. 411 

onions, radish pods, string beans, etc., throw in, always setinj 
tliere is enough vinegar to cover the pickles. When nearly full, 
add mustard seed, peppers, bruised ginger, 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, a few whole cloves and allspice. Cover tightly and set 
in vessel of water over a slow fire. Let the water boil until the 
pickles are sufficiently soft to suit the palate. Very good. 

Pickled Nasturtium Seeds. — A good substitute for capers, 
or very nice to add to mixed pickles, or to the filling of mangoes. 
Gather the green seeds daily, before they fall apart. Leave a bit 
of stem attached, and throw into a light brine to keep. Change 
this once a week. When through gathering, wash in fresh water, 
drain, and fill in pickle bottles. Pour on boiling vinegar to cover, 
and cork tightly. Those not wanted for immediate use might 
have egg-paper tied over the corks. They improve with keeping. 
The vinegar is equal to pepper-sauce. 

Ripe Tomato Pickles. — Take round plum tomatoes. The 
yellow and red mixed make a pretty contrast. Do not prick them. 
Put them in a strong brine for four days, rinse and put down in 
layers, mixing with button onions and pieces of horse-radish. 
Spice the vinegar to suit the taste (See Spiced Vinegar). Tie the 
spices in cloth, boil in the vinegar, let this become cold; throw 
one of the bags of spice in each jar, and turn the cold vinegar over 
all. They may be packed in cans and the vinegar turned over 
scalding hot. Seal at once. Some prefer to omit the onions. If 
large tomatoes are used, slice in inch-thick slices; soak in brine; 
4 large onions to 1 peck of tomatoes. 

Pickled Cherries. — Fill cans or bottles with ripe cherries on 
the stem. Turn over them spiced vinegar. Mace, nutmeg and 
coriander seed may be used; tie them up in a thin cloth, and boil 
together. Let cool before using. Paste egg-paper over the bottles. 
Keep close six weeks before opening. 

Pickled Onions. — Peel, and boil them in milk and water ten 
minutes. To 2 quarts of vinegar put ^ ounce each of cinnamon, 
mace and pepper-corns; |^ ounce of cloves, l.teaspoonful of salt. 
Tie the spices in cloth and boil in the vinegar. Pour this scald- 
ing hot over the onions, leaving the spice-bag in the jar. Drain 
the onioiis thoroughly from the milk and Vi:;*r, U^g the button 



412 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

variety on account of size ; in peeling, leave the root in, only trim- 
ming slightly. This will keep the onions whole. 

Pickled Ollions (II) . — Choose small ones, as near the same 
size as possible. Peel, and pour over them strong boiling hot 
brine; cover closely and the next day drain them from the brine; 
wipe and put into cold vinegar, with whole pepper, blades of mace 
and sliced horse-radish. Keep them covered with vinegar, air- 
tight, and in a cool, dry place. 

Pickled Artichokes. — Soak the artichokes in salt and water 
four or five days, then drain and rub off all tlie skin; turn boiling 
vinegar over them, spice to taste with pepper-corns, mace, a little 
salt and nutmeg. Let stand a week, turn off the vinegar, scald 
again and pour over the artichokes. Cover the jar closely. Egg- 
paper is good. 

Mushroom Pickles. — Peel, and stew them with just water 
enough to prevent burning. Shake occasionally. When tender, 
take up, season slightly with salt, and cover with scalding hot 
vinegar, spiced with mace and pepper to taste. A very few cloves 
may be added. Bottle wliile hot, and seal with egg-paper if they 
are to be kept long. 

Pickled Cabbage. — Cut firm heads of white cabbage; slice 
them and pack in layers in a jar, sprinkling salt between each 
layer. Let stand over night. In the morning drain thoroughly, 
pack in a jar, sprinkling each layer thickly with celery seed (this 
can be bought by the ounce), and grated horse-radish; press down 
hard and cover with scalding hot spiced vinegar. Let remain in 
this six days, then pour off and seal over again. Pour back 
hot. Press down the cabbage if necessary, to keep it under the 
liquid. 

Pickled Red Cabbage—Quarter the cabbage, remove the 
outer leaves and the stalk. Cut in slices J of an inch thick ; put 
in a jar with salt sprinkled between the layers, and let stand over 
night. Drain dry as possible and cover with boiling hot vinegar, 
spiced to the taste, or with plain vinegar, also hot. This is better 
kept some time. 

Pickled Cauliflower. — Divide in small clusters, wash and 
sprinkle with salt over niibt. Drain and pour over them scalding 



PICKLES AND VINEGAR. 41 3 

hot vinegar, seasoned -vsath whole pepper boiled in it, or the same 
spiced vinegar used for pickling white cabbage may be made use 
of. Pour on scalding hot. Some cooks boil the cauliflower in salted 
water ten minutes before pickling. If a few shces of beets are put 
in the vinegar while boiling, the stalks will be a beautiful coral red. 

Pickled String? Beans. — Parboil in slightly salted water, 
drain thoroughly and pack in glass cans. Turn over them hot 
spiced vinegar, and seal. 

Pickled Walnuts and Butternuts. — Gather when soft 
enough to be pierced with a pin. Lay in strong brine five days, 
renew this in the meantime once or twice; drain and rub with a 
coarse cloth; pierce each one through with a large needle and lay 
in cold water six hours. To each ^ gallon of vinegar, add 1 cupful 
of sugar, 3 dozen each, whole cloves and black pepper; l as much 
allspice and 12 blades of mace. Boil these together five minutes and 
pour scalding hot over the nuts, previously packed in small jars. 
Turn the vinegar off twice within a week, scald and turn back hot. 
Tie up and set away. Do not use for one month. Very good. The 
vinegar will be nice for catsup or to flavor gravies and soups. 

To Pickle Corn (For Winteb Use.) — Cut the corn from 
the ear and pack in a stone jar in the proportion of 1 pint of salt 
to 2 quarts of corn, imtil the jar is full; then put a weight on 
top and cover closely. When wanted for use, soak it in fresh 
water until the salt is out. Pour boiling water on the first time, 
to seal up the milk ; then freshen with cold water and cook like green 
corn. Some cooks parboil the corn before cutting from the ear. 

Pickled Peaches and Apricots.— Take fruit of a full 
growth, but perfectly green ; put in a strong brine. When they 
have been in a week, remove, wipe with a soft cloth, and lay in a 
pickle jar. Put to ^ gallon of vinegar, ^ ounce of cloves, l ounce 
of cinnamon, ^ ounce each of pepper, sliced ginger root and mus- 
tard seed. Boil the vinegar with the spices (tied in bits of thin 
cloth), and pour over the peaches boiling hot. Pour off the vine- 
gar several times, re-heat and turn back. 

Pickled Celery Roots. — The sohd white roots of celery that 
are usually thrown away may be made into a nice pickle. Trim 
and cut into thick slices. Boil in salted water ten minutes. Drain, 



414 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

and put in a jar. Boil vinegar enough to cover them, together 
with a tablespoouful of whole pepper corn, and pour over the celery. 
After standing one day, pour off the vinegar. Mix mustard with 
it, and a little cayenne pepper. Pour back, cork tightly, and paste 
over with egg-paper tied down. Root celery can be prepared in the 
same way. The roots of celery are very nice to use in soup. 

Pickled Carrots (German Style) Take small, tender carrots. 

Scrape and rub ofif the skin. Parboil in salted water, not too much, 
or they will not keep their shape. Drain and put in a jar. Boil 
vinegar enough to cover them. Pour on and let remain twenty- 
four hours. Drain off and scald again. Put a bay leaf, and 3 or 
4 cloves in with the carrots. Add a little salt to the boiling vinegar, 
and pour over the carrots. If wished to keep a long time seal up 
with egg-paper. They are very ornamental, especially when served 
with the pickled beets given below. 

Beet Pickles (French Style), — Cook the beets until tender, 
and cut in pieces of an even size. Boil vinegar enough to cover 
them, together with a blade of mace, apiece of ginger-root, and a 
piece of horse-radish, and pour over the beets boiling hot, when 
cold, cork up. If to be kept long, seal hot with egg-paper. 

Cold sliced beets may be kept at least two months, by slicing 
a little horse-radish in the vinegar. A little white sugar may also 
be added. 

SWRRT" PIGKLaRS. 

Pickled Peaches.— 6 pounds of peaches, 3 pounds of sugar, 
1 pint of vinegar. Rub the peaches with a coarse towel. Stick 8 
or 4 cloves into each one. Boil the vinegar and sugar together, 
with 2 or 3 sticks of broken cinnamon. When boiling, drop in a 
few peaches at a time. When tender put them in jars. Repeat 
this until all are cooked. Let the syrup boil up once or twice; 
pour it over them boiling hot. If cloves are not used, prick each 
peach several times with a fork. Some cooks pare the peaches. 

Spiced Peaches. — Pare the peaches with a very sharp knife. 
To 8 {)ounds of the fruit, take 4 pounds of the best brown sugar, 1 
quart of cider vinegar, 1 cupful of mixed spices (whole), cassia 



PICKLES AND VINEGAR. 415 

buds, cloves, stick cinnamon, mace and allspice. Tie the spices in 
a bag, and boil with the vinegar and sugar. Skim. Pack the fruit 
in a jar, and pour the boiling syrup over it. Eepeat this for two 
mornings, unless the peaches are hard, when they should be boiled 
in the syrup three minutes. They can be canned, but will keep in 
a jar. Leave the bag of spices^ in the syrup. Pickled apples 
improve by keeping. 

Peach Mangoes. — Take sound, ripe, free-stone peaches. 
Wipe, split and remove the pits. Fill the cavities with finely chop- 
ped tomatoes, grated horse-radish, and mustard seed. Put the 
halves together, tie each one. Pack in jars and cover with a boil- 
ing syi'up, made of 2 pounds of brown sugar to 1 quart of vinegar. 
Seal at once. Very excellent. 

Pickled Pears. — 6 pounds of fruit, 3 pounds of sugar, 1 
quart of vinegar, 1 tablespoonful each of allspice, mace and cin- 
namon. Stick 4 or 5 cloves in each pear. Tie the spices in a thin 
cloth. Boil with the sugar and vinegar, skim and add the pears. 
Cook slowly until they can be pierced with a straw. Pack the 
fi-uit in glass jars. Let the syrup boil five minutes, and turn it 
over them boiling hot. In a few days heat the vinegar over, and 
turn upon the pears again. Do not pare them. Bemove,the stem 
and blossom end only. 

Pickled Apples.— Take medium sized sweet apples, pare and 
stick 4 or 5 cloves in each one. To 10 pounds of apples, allow 3 
pounds of sugar, 1 quart of vinegar and spices, (1 cupful same 
as spiced peaches). Boil the apples. Eemove them as fast as they 
become tender. When all are done, boil the syrup five minutes 
longer and pour over the fruit. Leave the spice bag in the jar. 

Pickled Siberian Crab-Apples. — 6 pounds of fruit. Leave 
the stem on and remove the blossom end. 3 pounds of sugar, 1^ 
pints vinegar, spice, if liked, with 1 ounce of stick cinnamon and 
^ ounce of cloves. Steam the crab-apples in a steamer until tender. 
Boil the syrup ten minutes. Skim. Throw the crabs in and let 
boil five or ten minutes, not enough to break, and can immediately. 

Pickled Water-melon Rinds. — Take ripe melons. Cut out 
tbp red pulji and prepare ns for innsk-melon. Then pare off the 
nanl, green, outer rind, and cut the remainder in narrow strips 2 



4l6 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

inches long, or in fancy shapes. Lay the pieces in a weak brine. 
Let stand until next day. In the morning pour off the brine, and 
add 1 quart of vinegar, and 1 pound of sugar to every gallon of the 
pickles. Cook slowly and stir often until they look clear. Boil in 
the vinegar, 1 ounce of broken stick cinnamon, ^ ounce allspice and 
cloves mixed. Tie these in a thin cloth before putting in the 
vinegar. Seal up in jars hot, though they will keep without. They 
can be used in three weeks. 

Pickled Musk-melons. — Take ripe musk-melons, those too 
tasteless for eating are quite as good. Cut in the natural divisions, 
peel and remove the seeds, put in a stone jar and cover with hot 
cider-vinegar. Let stand twenty-four hours and i^our off the 
vinegar. Weigh the melons, and to every 5 pounds, add 3 pounds 
of sugar, and 1 quart of vinegar, ^ ounce of cloves, ^ ounce cinna- 
mon, i ounce of mace, all whole. Tie the spices in a cloth and 
boil all together until the melon is clear and easily penetrated with 
a fork ; take out, lay in a jar, boil the syrup ten or fifteen minutes 
longer, and pour over them boiling hot. 

Ripe Cucumber Pickles. — Take large, ripe cucumbers; pare, 
remove the seeds, cut lengthwise, and soak over night in salt and 
water. Drain and boil ten minutes in vinegar and water, half and 
half, and let stay in this twenty-four hours. Drain once more, 
and for each 7 pounds of the fruit, make a syrup of 1 pound of 
sugar, 1 pint of vinegar, and cloves, allspice, cinnamon and nut- 
meg, i ounce of each. Tie the spices in a thin cloth. Boii 
together until the cucumbers are tender and put in jars. Scald the 
syrup as often as necessary and pour over them, which, if late in 
the season, will be very seldom. 

Citron Pickles. — Pare and cut in any preferred shape. Boil 
in weak alum-water until tender, | teaspoonful of alum to a quart 
is strong enough ; then proceed as for water-melon rinds, only do 
not boil as long. 

Tomato Pickles, (Sweet). — 12 pounds of green tomatoes, 
sliced. Pack in a jar in layers with salt sprinkled between, and let 
stand over night. In the morning put in a colander, and pour clear 
water through until they are fresh. Then steam until a fork pene- 
trates easily. Have ready 1 quart of vinegar, and 3 pounds of 



PICKLES AND VINEGAR. 417 

sugar boiled together, with 2 ounces of cinnamon, i ounce allspice 
and i ounce of cloves. Tie these loosely in a thin cloth. Pack 
the hot tomatoes in a jar and pour the boiling vinegar over them, 
putting a plate in the jar to press them under the vinegar. 

Pickled Cabbage, (Sweet). — Pickle in the same manner as 
tomatoes. Use either red or white, slice thinly, do not steam, 
simply pack m jars after draining free fi-om salt, and pour the 
boiling spiced vinegar over. 

Combination Sweet Pickles. — Shce tomatoes (green), and 
cabbage. Eed cabbage will give the whole pickle a beautiful color. 
Pack in salt; (pack separately), drain in the morning, strain the 
tomatoes, and pack cabbage and tomatoes in a jar, and pour over 
them the hot, spiced vinegar, given in rule for tomatoes. Press 
down with a plate; 1 quart of vinegar, etc., to 10 pounds of the 
mixed pickle. 

Ripe Tomato Sweet Pickles. — Pare and weigh ripe toma- 
toes and pack in jars, (plum tomatoes are nicer). Cover with good 
vinegar, adding for every 7 pounds of fruit 3^ pounds of coffee- 
sugar, 1 ounce of stick cinnamon broken, and ^ ounce of allspice, 
cloves or mace; tie the spices in a cloth and simmer slowly. It 
will be safer to can them; if this is not done, skim the tomatoes 
out carefully, put in a jar, boil the syrup, and pour over them boiling 
hot. 

Ripe Grape Pickles. — 7 pounds of ripe grapes stemmed and 
packed in a jar. Take 1 quart of vinegar, 2 pounds of sugar, 1 
level tablespoonful of cloves, 2 tablespoonfuls of cinnamon; boil 
together ten minutes, skim and let it cool slightly, pour over the 
grapes. Turn a plate over them and set in cool cellar. Very 
good. 

Pickled Plums. — 7 pounds of plums, (small frost plums are 
best). Boil together 3 pounds of brown sugar, 3 quarts of vinegar, 
^ cupful cinnamon, 1 tablespoonful cloves. Steam the plums 
tender, put in a jar and pour the hot spiced vinegar over them. 
Seal immediately, or if not, heat the vinegar three successive 
mornings and pour over the plums. 

Pickled Cherries. — Pick over the cherries carefully, put in a 
jar and pour over them hot spiced vinegar, made in the pro^-rrtic^ 

27 



4l8 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

of 1 pound of sugar, boiled with 1 pint of vinegar, and 2 or 3 sticks 
of cinnamon. Boil, skim and pour over the fruit, which it should 
cover. Let stand one week ; pour off the vinegar, boil again and 
pour over the fruit. When cold tie tightly. 

Pickled Beets, (Sweet). — Boil and cut in slices or dice, and 
pour over them a hot, spiced vinegar, made in the proportion of 1 
pound of sugar to 1 quart of vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of cloves, and | 
teaspoonful of cinnamon may be tied in a cloth and boiled with 
them. Pour over the beets hot. If to be kept a long time, can 
immediately. 

Pickled Berries. — Make a syrup of 4 pounds of sugar, li 
pints vinegar, 1 ounce stick cinnamon, ^ ounce whole cloves, (tie 
the spices in a cloth), let them boil together, skim, put in the ber- 
ries (blackberries, huckleberries, strawberries or raspberries may 
be used), and let boil gently twenty minutes. Pour in cans, and 
seal immediately. 

Pickled Quinces. — Follow precisely the same rule as for 
pickled apples, using 4 pounds cf sugar to 10 pounds of the pared 
and quartered quinces. Steam the quinces until partly tender 
before dropping into the syrup. Do not allow to break. Remove 
a few at a time as they become tender. 

VIKE.GAR. 

Home-made Vinegar.— 14 pounds of coarse, brown sugar, 
10 gallons water, 1 cupful of brewers' or bakers' yeast. Boil the 
sugar with three parts of the w^ater and skim. Eemove from the 
fire and pour in the cold water. Strain into a ten-gallon keg. 
Put in some small pieces of toast with the yeast. Stir every day 
for a week. Then tack gauze over the orifice. Set where the sun 
will shine on it, and let remain six months, by which time, if 
made in the spring, it will be vinegar. 

Honey Vinegar. — 1 quart of clear honey 8 quarts of warm 
water. Mix well. When it has passed through the process of 
fermentation, a white vinegar will be formed in many respects better 
than the ordinary vinegar. 

Beet Vinegar. — The juice of 1 bushel of sugar beets, will 



PICKLES AND VINEGAR. 419 

make from five to six gallons of the best vinegar, equal to cider. 
Wash the beets, grate them and express the juice. Put the liquid 
in an empty barrel, cover the orifice with gauze and set in the sun. 
In twelve or fifteen days it will be fit for use. 

Apple Vinegar, — Save the sound cores and the parings of 
apples used in cooking. Put in a jar, cover with cold water; add 
^ pint of molasses to every 2 gallons. Cover the jar with netting; 
add more parings and cores occasionally. This will make good 
vinegar. 

Potato Viliegar. — 1 gallon of water that potatoes have been 
boiled in, ^ pound of brown sugar, f cup of hop yeast. In a 
month, most excellent vinegar will be the result. 

To Turn Cider Into Vinegar. — Bring the ban-el out of the 
cellar, and set in the hot sun. Eemove the bung and in its place 
put a glass bottle, inverted to keep out insects, and give the sun a 
chance to shine in a little. Add a cupful or so of yeast to hasten 
the process, and if wanted extra sharp, add 2 or 3 quarts of 
sorghum syrup, or N. 0. molasses. A few weeks in the open air 
will change it, when it may again be removed to the cellar. 

Corn Vinegar. — 1 quart of shelled corn, 1 quart sorghum or 
other common molasses, 3 gallons water. Boil the com in water 
until half done; put in a jar or into jugs. Fill up with the 3 
gallons of water (boiling hot), and sweetened with the molasses. 
In two or three weeks it will be excellent vinegar. 

Soi^hum Vinegar. — To 1 gallon of the molasses, add 41 
gallons of water. Mix thoroughly, put in an open- headed barrel, 
following the above proportions until the barrel is full. Tie a 
coai'se cloth over'the top. Place where it is light, and give it heat 
from seventy to ninety degrees. Occasional stirring will help. 

Spiced Vinegar for Pickles.— l gallon of vinegar, 1 pound 
of sugar, 1 tablespoonful of allspice, 3 tablespoonfuls of mustard 
seed, 3 tablespoonfuls of celery seed, 2 tablespoonfuls of salt, 1 
tablespoonful of black pepper, 1 tablespoonful of cinnamon, 1 
tablespoonful of mace, 3 onions very finely chopped, 1 teacupful 
grated horse-radish. 



M0ME''^JIBB: QMMBm^. 



CANDY that is home-made, has this to commend it, above all 
others; it is pure. The rules given in this department, 
when followed, will be found to work well. They will be 
found to cover the entire variety of confectionery, from molasses 
candy to the delicious French candies, that are so quickly prepared. 
Candies are easily made and are always nice to serve at an evening 
party. 

In pulling candy, butter the hands to prevent sticking, being 
careful not to use too much. Sometimes, the hands may be kept 
cool, by dipping in cold water and drying quickly. Kepeat this as 
often as they grow warm. For making sticks, it is sometimes 
necessary to flour the hands slightly. 

Scrapings of the dish should never be put in with the candy 
to be pulled, as they are darker and will spoil the appearance. 

Molasses Candy. — 2 cupfuls molasses, 1 cupful sugar, 1 
tablespoon ful \anegar. Butter size hickory nut. Boil briskly until 
it will harden in cold water. Stir in i teaspoonf ul soda ; flavor if 
liked. Pour on a buttered plate. When cool, pull until white. 
Nut meats can be stirred in, in which case it will not need pulling. 

Molasses Candy (II).— 1 pint of molasses. Boil until it will 
become brittle in cold water. Stir in | teaspoonf ul of soda. Pour 
on buttered plates, and when cool pull until white. 

Butter Scotch. — 3 pounds best brown sugar, 1^ pints water. 
Boil until it will harden in cold water, then add ^ pound butter. 
Boil until it hardens again. Do not stir at all. Add ^ teaspoon- 
ful lemon extract, and ^ teaspoonful cream of tartar. Pour on 
buttered trays, or a buttered dri])ping-pan. Have it ^ of an inch 
thick, and when cool mark off in squares. If, when partly cold, 

(420) 



HOME-MADE CANDIES. 421 

it should be pulled until white, it will be like ice-cream candy. 
Some substitute molasses for the water. 

Vinegar Candy. — 3 cupfuls sugar, ^ cupful water, ^ cupful 
vinegar. Stir before putting on the stove, but not after. When 
partly done add 1 teaspoon ful of butter. Just before removing from 
the stove, stir in ^ teaspoonful soda dissolved in a few drops of hot 
water. When cool enough to handle pull white with the tips of 
the fingers. 

Barley Sugar. — Dissolve IJ pounds of loaf sugar in ^ pint 
of water, and the white of 1 egg. When it is boiled suflBciently to 
snap in cold water, add 1 teacupful of strained lemon juice. Boil 
quickly until it is candied as before, then pour on a buttered slab, 
or dripping-pan. When it thickens, cut in strips and twist each 
one. 

Maple Candy.— 1 cupful granulated sugar, 1^ cupfuls maple 
syrup, buttor the size of a walnut. Cook until it hardens. 

Ice-cream Candy. — 2 cupfuls granulated or powdered sugar, 
^ cupful water. When it begins to boil add ^ teaspoonful cream- 
tartar, boil until brittle when dropped in cold water. Just before 
removing from the stove, add 1 teaspoonful butter and flavoring to 
suit the taste. Pour on buttered plates, and pull as hot as possible 
without buttering the hands, cut in sticks, vanilla is the best 
flavoring. If it sugars, cook over again and add a little water. 
Do not stir it at all. 

Munich Cream. -1 cupful of rich cream in which there is a 
little water, 3 cupfuls granulated sugar, stir until it boils and add 
^ teaspoonful cream-tartar. Cook twenty minutes, and upon tak- 
ing off, stir until it whitens. 

Cream Talfj'. — 2 cupfuls coffee sugar, | cupful water, ^ cup- 
ful vinegar, boil without stirring. When half done, add 1 larg*; 
teaspoonful butter, before taking from the stove, dissolve ^ teas- 
poonful soda in a few drops of hot water and pour in. Flavor as 
desired and pall when sufficiently cool. 

Peppermint Drops. — 2 cupfuls sugar, i- cupful water, boil 
five minutes, flavor with jjeppermint, stir until thick and drop on 
white paper well buttered. 

Caramels. — 3 cupfuls sugar, 1 h cupfuls sweet milk, boil until 



422 THREe MEALS A DAY. 

it will harden in cold water. Pour on buttered plates and cut in 
squares. 

Maple Caramels. — 1 pound maple sugar, 1 cupful rich cream. 
In the absence of cream, 1 cupful sweet milk and 1 tablespoonful 
butter may be used. Cook until it will cake. Pour on buttered 
plates and cut in squares, or fill into fancy patty pans, 1 cupful 
nut meats may be stirred into this and an excellent nut candy made ; 
or, if rather large nut meats are used, they may be laid closely over 
the bottom of a tray, or pan, and the hot candy poured over them. 
When cold, cut in squares, with- a nut in the center of each. 

Molasses Caramels. — 1 cupful sugar, 1 cupful molasses, 1 
cupful milk, ^ cupful butter, boil fifteen minutes or uutil it will 
harden in cold water. Pour in shallow pans and cut in squares 
before it is quite cold. 

Chocolate Caramels. — 3 pounds brown sugar, ^ pound butter, 
|- pound grated chocolate, 1 pint cream or milk. Melt all these 
together carefully, and boil twenty minutes or half an hour, stir- 
ring constantly. Just before taking from the fire, flavor with 
vanilla, and add a small cupful granulated sugar. Pour into a 
buttered tin. When partly cool, mark in pieces 1 inch square. 

Chocolate Caramels (II). — 1 cupful yellow sugar, 2 cupfuls 
molasses, boil ten minutes, add 1 large tablespoonful flour, butter the 
size of an egg, and ^ pound grated chocolate, boil twenty minutes 
longer. Pour in buttered tins, and when cool, mark off in squares, 
vanilla flavoring. 

Maple Chocolate Balls. — ^ pound maj^le sugar, broken fine^ 
and dissolved with ^ cupful cold water. When perfectly dissolved 
let it boil hard five minutes. Break up ^ cake of chocolate and 
put in a bowl over boiling water to melt ; this can be done by re- 
moving the lid from the tea-kettle and setting the bowl in its place. 
Take the sugar from the fire, put in a cool place and beat until 
stiff enough to make into balls about the size of marbles. Place 
on buttered plates to harden and then drop one by one into the 
melted chocolate. Turn with a fork until completely covered and 
place on buttered paper to harden. 

Chocolate Kisses. — 3 heaping tablespoonfuls grated choco- 
late, 1 pound granulated sugar, whites of 4 eggs. Beat the eggs 



HOME-MADE CANDIES. 423 

to a froth, add sugar and chocolate and stir well together. Flavor 
with vanilla. Drop on buttered paper with a teaspoon and bake 
in a moderate oven ten minutes. 

Sugar Kisses. — Make the same as above, omitting the choco- 
late and flavoring with lemon. 

Chocolate Cream Drops. — ^ eupful cream or cream and 
milk, half and half; 2 cupfuls white granulated sugar. Boil 
together five minutes. Set the dish into another of cold water 
and stir until hard enough to make into balls or any fancy mold 
prefei-red, first flavoring the cream with 30 drops of vanilla. With 
a fork roll each one of these separately prepared in chocolate. Put 
them on a sheet of brown paper to cool. This amount will make 
fifty drops the size of a large marble. 

Cream Almonds. — Prepare a cream according to the rule 
given for Chocolate Cream Drops, and form it by hand around the 
almond kernels, covering thickly. A crystallized appearance may 
be given by rolling them while moist in fine granulated sugar. 

Cream Walnuts. — Take unbroken halves of English walnuts. 
Make a cream as for Chocolate Cream Drops, but do not stir it as 
stiff as for almond creams. Spread a portion of this cream with 
a knife on the inner surface of a half meat and press another half 
meat upon it. Use enough cream to embed the meats firmly with- 
out covering them. The cream may be slightly flavored with 
vanilla. Let harden. 

Cocoanut Cream Candy. — 2 teacupfuls white sugar, ^ tea- 
cupful sweet cream or milk, milk and water half and half or 
water alone, 1 scant teaspoonful butter. Let boil fifteen minutes 
and then stir in 1 cupful of grated fresh cocoanut or desiccated. 
Pour in pans and cut leuthwise when partly cool, or drop by 
spoonfuls on butter paper. Some omit the butter. 

Tutti Frutti Cream Candy. — 3 cupfuls white sugar, i cup- 
ful water, 1 tablespoonful vinegar. Boil ten minutes, then add 1 
cuj)ful grated fresh cocoanut or the desiccated. Boil ten min- 
utes longer, remove from fire and stir in 1 pound of fresh chopped 
tigs or nut meats, half and half with the figs. Drop by spoonfuls 
on biittered paper or in fancy molds, or pour in shallow pans and 
out in squares while cooling. Raisins maybe mixed with the figs. 



424 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Date Candy. — Take 4 cupfuls white sugar, 1 scant cui^tiil 
cold water, butter size of an egg. Let boil slowly until ready 
to candy, not too bard. Cut dates, and remove the seeds. Close 
them again, lay on a well- buttered platter in rows 1 inch apart 
each way, pour the boiled candy over, and while cooling cut in 
squares so that a date will be in each square. 

Fruit or Nut Candies. — Dates, figs, raisins or cherries dried 
in sugar and taken in small lumps may be prepared according to 
the rule given above for Date Candy. Nut-meats of various kinds 
may be also used in the same manner, substituting^, any of these 
for the dates given above. A variation in the candy may be made 
by substituting vinegar or lemon juice for the water used in the 
before-mentioned recipe. 

Tutti Frutti Fruit Candy. — Use the recipe for Date Candy. 
Stir into the liquid a cupful of fresh grated cocoanut and pour 
over the fruit. Dates, figs, raisins or cherries dried in sugar may 
oe used. When nearly cool cut in squares and place on paper to 
grow cold. 

Peanut Candy. — 1 cupful of sugar, 1|- cupfuls New Orleans 
molasses, 1^ cupfuls water, 1 teaspoonful butter. Boil until it 
snaps in water. Before removing from the stove stir in ^ tea- 
spoonful soda dissolved in 1 teaspoonful hot water, and 1 quart of 
roasted peanuts. Take care to have the kernel free from the shell 
and inside covering. Pour in buttered pans and mark in squares 
while coohng. 

Peanut Candy (II). — 12 pounds of A sugar, 1 pint molasses, 
1 teacupful water. Let this melt and boil slightly, then stniin and 
add 1 teaspoonful acetic acid; cook until it begins to thicken. To 
this quantity add 5 pounds of raw shelled peanuts, boil until 
brittle, then cool. Stir constantly after the peanuts are added to 
prevent burning. In cooling, a large sheet of tin, a dripping-pan, 
or a j)olished marble surface may be used. Spread over the sur- 
face I inch thick. This should be cut in oblong pieces before it cools. 

Maple Nut Candy. — 2 pounds of maple sugar, |- pint water. 
Boil until brittle, when dropped in cold water. Butter the pans, 
and spread nut-meats (any kind) on the bottom, pour the boiling 
tally over them. 



HOME-MADE CANDIES. 425 

Hickory-nut Candy. — Make same as first recipe for Peanut 

Candy. 

Popcorn Candy. — Make a common molasses candy. Have 
com nicely popped ; grind it fine in a coffee-mill, and when the 
candy is ready to remove from the fire, stir in as much of the ground 
corn as possible, and pour the whole into tin trays or dripping- 
pans (weU buttered), marking squares when partly cool. This is 
a very delicious, tender candy. 

Popcorn Balls (Molasses). — To 6 quarts of popped corn, 
boil 1 pint of molasses fifteen minutes. Turn the corn in a large 
pan and pour the boiled molasses over it, stirring briskly until 
thoroughly mixed. Then, with clean hands, slightly buttered, 
make into balls the desired size. 

Popcorn Balls (Sugae). — 1 teacupful sugar, ^ teacupful 
water, butter size of walnut. Boil until it is brittle. When cool 
pour over the corn, stirring briskly. When sufficiently cool, form 
into balls the desired size. 

Popcorn (Sugared). — Put in an iron kettle 1 tablespoonful 
butter, 3 tablespoonfuls water, and 1 cupful sugar; boil until 
it candies, then throw in 3 quarts of nicely popped com, and stir 
briskly until the candy is evenly distributed. Set the kettle from 
the fire, and continue stirring until it is partly cooled, and each 
grain is separate and crystallized with the sugar. Nice to mix 
with other confections. 

Horehound Candy. ~1 cupful sugar, J cupful strong hore- 
hound tea. Boil until it candies. Pull, or pour on buttered plates 
to cool. 

Almond Macaroons. — Blanch and pulverize ^ pound of 
shelled almonds ; rub fine, add a little rose-water. Beat the 
whites of 3 eggs to a stiff froth. Stir in gradually Impound of 
granulated sugar. Drop by small spoonfuls on buttered paper in 
tins an inch or two apart, as they spread in baking. Bake a light 
brown in a quick oven, first sifting white sugar over them. 

Cocoanut Macaroons. — l pound of pulverized white sugar, 
^ pound flour, ^ pound butter, 2 cocoanuts, grated, and the whites 
of 5 eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Stir all together; drop the mixture 
on buttered paper, in tins, and proceed as for almond macaroons. 



*'/'~\ ELICIOUS candies may be made with confectioners' sugar, 
I I without cooking. The white of an egg and a tablespoonful 
*^*"'^ of cream or cold water should be lightly beaten together. 
Into this the sugar should be stirred until it is the consistency of 
stiff dough. It may then be kneaded and moulded into any shapes 
desired. A variety of flavors may be used and the candy may be 
colored with the usual materials used for coloring rose and orange 
cake. • 

Cream Candy. — Beat the whites of 4 eggs to a stiff froth ; 
add 5 tablespoonful s cold water and flavor to the taste. Stir a 
httle, then add confectioners' sugar until stiff enough to knead 
like bread. The proportion of 1 white of an egg, 1^ tablespoon - 
fuls water or cream, and 1 pound of the sugar, are about cor- 
rect, and will answer for all the following recipes. Mold this 
in any desired form. Kneading a little improves this candy. Let 
harden until next day. "When fruit or nuts are used, the candies 
should be left until perfectly hard. 

Almond Creams. — Boll the blanched almonds in some of 
the cream candy, then in a little granulated sugar, to give them a 
glossy appearance ; or, mold the cream in thick lozenge form and 
press a nut on the top of each one. 

Chocolate Creams.— Heat Baker's Chocolate in a dish 
placed in boiling water; when liquid, flavor with vanilla. Make 
cream candy in balls, or any other shape, dip in the melted 
chocolate, remove with a fork and lay on white paper to harden. 

Cocoanut Creams. — Make cream candy, stirring in half the 
sugar at first. To the white of one egg and an equal amount of 
water of cream, add 1 cupful prepared cocoanut, and ^ pound sugar. 

(426> 



FRENCH CANDIES. 



427 



Mix thoroughly, and add the remainder of the sugar, or as much 
of it as can be stirred in, knead lightly and mold in desired shapes. 
1 pound of sugar should be used for the entire rule. 

Dute Creams. — Cut oat the stones, fill in with the cream 
candy and close carefully; or, cut out the stones and make same 
as nut creams. 

Chocolate Caildy. — Make cream candy, as directed, divide 
the quantity into two equal parts; into one part work enough 
grated chocolate to make a pretty brown — l cupful, perhaps, to 
|- the rule first given, or more if needed. EoU this out ^ inch 
thick, then roll the white portion; place the two sheets to- 
gether, roll and slice from the end, in slices | inch thick. This 
will be found ornamental as well as delicious. 

Nut and Fruit Creams. — Make the cream candy as before 
directed, knead and roll out in a sheet ^ inch thick, and place the 
nut meats, (almonds, English walnuts, or halves of hickory-nut 
meats) in rows ^ inch apart each way; press down, cut in squares 
with a nut in each squf^re. Flavor with vanilla. Let harden 
before using. Fruits of any kind, dates, figs cut in halves, cherries 
dried in sugar, or raisins (stoned), may be prepared in the same 
manner. Serve the fruit and nut creams mixed. The nuts or 
fruits may be rolled separately in the cream candy. Then roll the 
cream in granulated sugar, to impart a glistening appearance. 




THE TABLE. 429 

some people serve meals very tastily without the under covering, 
using mats instead. The mats may be very expensive, or made 
neat and tasteful at Jittle expense. Crocheted or netted ones are 
always nice and serviceable. The daintiest damask is heightened 
in effect, while the cheaper and thinner varieties spread smoothly 
over this sub-cover, are far richer in appearance. Another advan- 
tage to be gained by this is the deadening of the sound of dishes, 
as they are lifted and replaced. _ 

DINKRR. 

Laying the Table may require a few general rules. To do 
this. First imagine a square for the plate, lay the fork or forks at 
the right, then the knife with the sharp edge turned from the per- 
son who is to use it, beyond this the soup spoon. At the point of 
these place the individual butter-plate. Lay the napkin folded 
square at the left hand, with a piece of bread or a roll in its folds. 
At the upper left hand corner place a goblet or small tumbler for 
water. If a second spoon be needed, lay it beside the first, or use 
it to define the upper part of the square. Individual salts and 
peppers, if there are used, may be arranged to suit the taste. Extra 
knives and forks follow the rule given above. At the carvers place, 
if the carving is to be done at the table, spread a white napkin, 
(large) with the point toward the middle of the table to protect the 
table-cloth from splashes of gravy. If there is no castor, cruets 
and fancy pepper and salt-boxes can be had in a great variety of 
styles and prices. A vase of flowers is always attractive, and adds 
grace and beauty to any table. Place the pepper, salt and vinegar 
at the ends of the table, the individual butter and salt-dishes at the 
side of each plate. 

Serving the Table may be very much simplified at an in- 
formal dinner, or rendered elaborate where there are trained 
servants. The simpler form only will be touched upon here. 
When there are many persons to be served it is very convenient to 
have ice-water in the glasses, butter on the plates, and if the first 
course is raw oysters, have them in the dishes. Even soup, espe- 
cially where untrained help is employed, may be served before the 
guests are seated. If this is done, the plates should be heated and 



430 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

the soup itself hot as possible. If the soup is to be served at tha 
table, let it be done by the hostess. The tureen and a pile of 
heated plates should be placed before her, and a single silver ladle- 
ful dipped into each plate, and handed to an attendant who passes 
the plate at the left of the guest. 

The serving is usually commenced with the lady at the host's 
right hand and continued around the table. The soup should be 
eaten with the piece of dry bread or roll found at each plate. 
Buttering is only less vulgar than thickening the contents of the 
plate with crumbs. When the plates and tureen have been 
removed (take the spoons first), the next course should be brought 
on. If this is fish, only one vegetable should be served at the 
same time. Sliced lemon and squares of bread should be passed 
with it. Bread should be passed with each course. After a fish 
course, the plates are changed before the meats are brought on. 
Fish, is frequently omitted, as rendering the serving necessarily 
tedious. If roast beef, and game or fowls are both to be included 
in the dinner, they must be made into separate courses, each with 
their appropriate accompaniment of one vegetable. 

JeUies, pickles and other dishes, such as croquettes of various 
kinds, are used as side dishes or entrees, with the different courses. 
However, in the rather simple dinner taken for an example, it will 
be perfectly good taste to follow the soup with a roast, of any pre- 
ferred kind, served with two varieties of vegetables, which are 
placed with the platter of meat (one upon each side) before the 
host, together with a pile of heated plates, on which he serves the 
viands to each guest, either with or without the assistant passing. 
Jelly must never be put in sauce-dishes, but placed upon the plates 
by the host, or each may help him or herself, as the jelly is passed. 
The thin vegetables must be put in small sauce-plates. OHves, 
pickles and other relishes, should be passed by an attendant. The 
simple roast, served in this fashion, may constitute the substantial 
portion of the repast. Or, there may be substituted for the roast, 
a turkey with accompaniments. Cranberries used upon such an 
occasion, with turkey, should be served in the form of jelly, and 
put directly upon the plate. A pair of fowls, with dressing, may 
be substituted for the turkey ; or, they make a very nice third 



THE TABLE. 43 1 

course where beef has formed the second, and may be served with 
cauliflower or Brussels sprouts prepared in almost any fashion. 

If the carver is inexperienced, a portion of the carving may 
1)6 done before the turkey or fowls are placed on the table. If 
there is a salad it should be served separately. The dishes belong- 
ing to any course should always be removed and fresh ones sub- 
stituted. 

The substantial of the repast finished, the maid should be 
summoned and commence the clearing of the table by carrying 
out, first, the meat, then the dishes of vegetables, and after that 
plates and butter-plates. Use a tray to transfer everything except 
the large platters. Never allow the scraping of the contents of 
one plate into another, and bearing off the whole pile at once. 
Two plates at a time are enough. 

Then, after the soiled dishes, if the dessert is to come next, 
without the intervention of another course, have all the table fur- 
niture, salts, peppers, etc., removed, except the glasses, ice-bowl 
and water bottle, or pitcher, and the crumb-brush and tray used. 

Changing the table-linen for dessert is always optional. 
Dessert-cloths, napkins, fruit-cloths and napkins (colored) are 
pretty, but so many changes render the serving more complicated. 

Dessert of pudding and pastry follow, or, more fashionably, 
and also more ^healthfully, after the long, substantial dinner. 
Charlotte Russe and some of the various delicate and delicious 
creams may take the place of the richer desserts. Coffee may be 
served with this course (it should never be served earlier.) It 
should be poured by the hostess. Cream, if desired, should be put 
in first, and cubes of white sugar, dropped from the sugar-tongs, 
in the saucer, that each guest may sweeten it to his liking. 

Sardines skinned and served in a dish of lettuce hearts or 
water cresses, will be a pretty novelty to take the place of a salad 
at dinner or luncheon. 

If the dinner is a very ceremonious one, the coffee will not 
appear until the last course, which consists of fruits, ices and 
coffee (the ices optional), and the work of waiting is done. 

FxNGEK-BowLs are brought on with the dessert, and placed at 



432 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

the left hand of each guest. They should be two-thirds full of 
luke-warm water, with a shce of lemon or a geranium leaf in each 
one, or flavored with rose or any preferred scent. Pretty Japanese 
bowls at 20 and 25 cents will do nicely. The bowls are sometimes 
set, each on its tiny doily, in the glass plate used for dessert, and 
placed before the guest, who should remove the bowl and doily 
to the left hand, leaving the plate free for the dessert. 

Whebe baked puddings or pastry are served at a plain dinner, 
they should be brought in and placed before the hostess, in the 
dish that they were baked in, and served. If silver outside 
pudding and pie dishes are attainable, they are a great improve- 
ment. 

T^ABIaR rtiquroxtr. 

In giving a dinner, have regard to the size and convenience of 
your rooms, and regulate the number of guests to suit, as a crowded 
table is always tiresome. Be sure to know that those invited are 
agreeable to each other. Strangers are sometimes invited as a 
compliment to other guests, or, as com'tesy to themselves. All 
guests should be invited ten days before the dinner, and should 
accept or decline at once. They should be punctual to the hour 
named. Ladies usually appear in full dress; gentlemen in the 
usual conventional black, with white vests. 

Guests should find their places quietly as possible. Cards at 
each plate will be an assistance. 

Guests remain standing until the hostess seats herself. 

A GENTLEMAN cscorting a lady into the dining-room should 
offer her his left arm, and, on passing through the door, pass 
first himself and let the lady follow without dropping his arm. 

The KNrvES and forks are to be used as follows : The small, 
spoon-shaped fork is used for raw oysters ; the next smallest fork 
for fish; a silver knife is usually supplied for fish also; steel- 
bladed knives, with elegant handles, are most usually provided for 
meats. 

Soup should be eaten from the side of the spoon, noiselessly. 
To be very exquisite, dip up the soup with the side of the spoon 



THE TABLE. 433 

farthest from you and move it toward the farther side of thw plate 
in lifting it toward the lii^s. This will give time for a drop 10 fall 
into the plate from the outside. 

Napkins should be partly unfolded and laid carelessly on the 
left knee and used to wipe the lips lightly. 

Courses wherein knives and forks are both used, the knife 
should be held in the right hand and the fork in the left, and they 
should not be exchanged. Keep the fork in the left hand and 
convey all the food to the mouth with that hand. 

Courses where no knife is required, such as salads, croquettes, 
sweet-breads, etc., the fork is held in the right hand. 

Knives and forks should be held with the handles resting in 
the palms of the hands and with the elbows close to the sides. 

Forks are used, wherever it is possible, for puddings, creams 
and jellies; by some persons for ice cream, and in some houses 
both forks and spoons are sent up with them. 

With vegetables and macaroni use a fork. Artichokes and 
olives are eaten in the fingers. 

Peaches, pears and apples are prepared for eating by holding 
the fruit on a fork, and paring with a fruit knife. 

AccroENTs should not be noticed. 

In sending up the plate for more of any course, the knife and 
fork should always be removed. The handles of both knives and 
forks are loaded, hence there is no danger of soiling the table 
linen; or, if one is skillful, they may be held in one hand care- 
lessly. 

Always break the bread. 

Do NOT fold the napkin after dinner, leave it beside the plate. 

Never pass a plate offered you to some one else. 

Always let the teaspoon remain in the cup unless you desire 
more tea or coffee. 

Gloves should be worn to the table and removed. 

Dinner should be announced to the hostess. The host leads 
the way with the principal lady guest, or the eldest one present, 
and the hostess should bring up the rear with the principal gentle- 
man, whom she seats upon her right, taking her own seat opposite 
the host. 
28 



434 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Gentlemen assist the ladies they have accompanied to seats, 
then seat themselves. 

Gentlemen are informed what lady they wUl have the honor 
of taking out, and, if strangers, are given an introduction, though 
in England this formahty is sometimes dispensed with, as guests 
at a dinner party are free to converse with those next them without 
a previous introduction. A gentleman will take out to dinner some 
other lady than his wife, a brother will select some one to fill the 
place of his sister, while these ladies have already, it may be, 
accepted the escort of some stranger. Guests may remain one 
hour after dinner. 

Melons that are sufficiently soft are eaten with a spoon. 

A knife and fork both are used in eating salad, if it is not cut 
up before serving. 

Pine-apple is the only fruit that requires the use of both knife 
and fork. 

BRRAKPASTS. 

Breakfast parties are growing in favor with ArheJicans of 
late, as being less formal than a ceremonious dinner. The hour is 
from nine to eleven, varying with circumstances. 

The invitation may be an informal note, or a card of the 
hostess, in which case below the name is written, "Breakfast at 
eleven o'clock, Wednesday." 

Spread the table as nicely as possible. A white cloth with 
white napkins under each plate and mats bordered with scarlet, are 
very effective. 

A tiny breakfast castor at each end of the table, or a cluster 
of vinegar, cruet, salt and pepper bottles, as for dinner, may be 
arranged at each end. A salad set is very pretty. 

FKmT, of which the first course is to consist, should be placed 
in two glass bowls in the center of the table with a vase of flowers 
between, or in one large bowl, arranged with flowers on either hand. 
Berries, peaches, melons, pears or grapes, are pretty summer dishes. 
For winter a beautifully arranged display of Malaga or Tokay grapes, 
dates, figs and oranges, may take their place. These should be 
served first. 



THE TABLE. 435 

Cantaloupes in their season are delicious for breakfast, bananas 
are healthful, and sliced tomatoes taken from ice are exceedingly 
refreshing. 

Oatmeal, or cracked wheat porridge, with cream, forms the 
next course. 

Fried Oysters may follow this if desired. Kenioving the 
bowls, all that is really necessary is a course consisting of broiled 
birds, spring chickens, or tenderloin steaks with buttered toast. 
Fowl or steak should be accompanied by potatoes in some form. 
Saratoga potatoes, croquetted potatoes, or other forms. Any variety 
of bread may be served either cold or hot, but very nice and light 
of its kind. 

Butter should be in several small plates with bits of ice 
around it. 

The closing course should be hot cakes served with honey or 
maple syrup, placed at each plate in sauce dishes. 

Coffee, extra nice, should come on with this course, tea and 
chocolate may also be at hand. 

A glass of nice jam, or tart jelly, may be placed upon the 
table to serve with the meats. 

A breakfast should never be too elaborate, one attendant being 
sufficient, unless the guests are veiy numerous. 

Guests should not remain more than half an hour after leaving 
the table. 

The same forms, though somewhat plainer, are very suitable 
to follow for the family breakfasting. Little attentions to refine- 
ment and beauty render the etiquette of state occasions more easily 
assumed. 

IaUNGHRONS. 

Luncheons for guests are very similar to the late breakfast. 
Ladies only are invited to lunch. One o'clock is the earliest per- 
missible hour. A little later is more desirable. 

Bouillon may be served first in little cups. Tea, coffee, or 
chocolate, follow with the substantials. Salads, chicken, or lobster, 
oysters in frys, scallops, or panned, together with cutlets, sweet- 



436 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

breads in any style, and various other such dishes, for which rules 
will be found in this book. 

The table may be decorated with fruits and flowers as for a 
breakfast. Fancy cakes and bon bous should be on the table, and 
dainty crackers, or wafers, must be served instead of bread. 

Table-cloth and napkins are usually colored, and the whole 
meal lighter than a breakfast. Some ladies only give the rolled 
sandwiches of grated ham, wafers, and tea or chocolate. 

Guests are not exj)ected to remain more than half an hour 
after leaving the dining-room. 

Set the table as for a breakfast, using white table linen if 
desired. Fruit and flowers to decorate. 

BouUiLON for first course served in small cups, or cups and 
saucers, with a teaspoon, or any clear soup may be used. 

Chicken salad, oyster pates, or any other pates follow. Oysters 
fried, fricasseed, or scallopped, or fish may be served before the 
salads, etc. 

Cakes, small, fancy, mixed, one variety of loaf, the made 
jellies (gelatine), lemon, etc., sei-ved with whipped cream heaped 
about them. 

Coffee, or chocolate, may be served after the salads. 

Bread, or rolls, are also necessary, while almond, or chocolate 
tarts and chocolate custards, are nice additions. 

billa of farr. 

The following bill of fare pages will be very valuable to the 
yoimg and inexperienced housekeeper. It has been our endeavor 
to cover as wide a range as good practical common sense would 
allow. Courses for dinner parties, hints for other parties, colla- 
tions, church sociables, picnics, and children's parties, are given. 
These bills of fare are subject to endless variations. 



THE TABLE. 437 

SUGGESTIONS FOR T^HE WEEK. 



SUNDAY. 



JBreafefast.— Sausage, Fried hasty Pudding, Cold Bread or 
Toast, Coffee. 

Dinner. — Baked Beans, Broiled Steak, Eoast Potatoes, Catsup or 
Pickles, Indian Pudding, Tea. 

(Supper.— Cold Bread, Sauce or Koasted Apples, Ginger Snaps, 
Tea or Cocoa. 

MONDAY. 



Breaktastm—Gold Baked Beans, Brown and White Bread, 
Sauce, Corn-meal Muffins. 

Dinner. — Veal Steak or Pork Steak, Koast Potatoes, Baked 
Squash, Bread and Butter, Apple or Squash Pie, Tea, (Fruit alone may 
be used for dessert). 

Supper. — Toast, Preserves, Chocolate. 



TUESDAY. 



Bre&kfast. — Milk Toast, Doughnuts, Cocoa Shells, Boiled Eggs 
or Omelet. 

Dinner. — Koast Beef, Mashed Potatoes, Turnips, Cranberry 
Sauce or Pickles, Batter Pudding or Pie. 

Supper.— Toast or Rolls, Cold Sliced Roast Beef, Cup Custard, 
Plain Cake, Tea. 

WEDNESDAY. 



Breakfast. — Crust Coffee or Coffee, Potato Balls, Broiled Salt 
Codfish, Johnny Cake and Cold Bread. 

Dinner. — Scalloped Beef (made from the remains of yesterday's 
roast), Cauliflower, or Cabbage in any preferred way , Mashed Potatoes, 
Apple Custard Pie, Cheese, Tea or Coffee. 

-S' upper. —Rolls or Biscuit, Canned or Fresh Fruit, Chocolate 
Custard, Tea. 

THURSDAY. 



Breakfast. — Coffee, Oatmeal Mush, Lyonaise Potatoes, Graham 
Gems or Muffins, Cold Bread. 



438 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Dinner, — Beefsteak smothered in Onions, Pickled Beets, Tur- 
nips, Boiled Potatoes, Bread and Butter, Fresh Gingerbread, Coffee. 

Supper.— Soit Toast with Eggs, Potato Salad (any kind), Cold 
Bread, Canned Fruit, Cookies, Tea. 



FRIDAY. 



Breafr/ast,— Chocolate, Baked Potatoes, Hot Muffins (corn). 
Cold Bread, Sliced Tomatoes. 

Dinner. — Tomato Soup, Veal Cutlets or Fish, Steak, Cupped 
Potatoes or simply Mashed, Bread Pudding, Tea. 

(Supper.— Toast, Cold Bread, Codfish picked up in Cream. 
Canned Fruit or Apple Float, Tea, Doughnuts. 



SATURDAY. 



Breakfast.— V^heat Pan-Cakes and Syrup, Fried Potatoes, 
Sausage, Coffee. 

Dinner. — Veal Pot-pie or Salt Fish with Drawn Butter Sauce, 
Boast potatoes (omit these with Pot-Pie), Carrots, Pickles or Catsup, 
Steamed Apple or Cherry Pudding, Tea. 

Supper. — Custard. Fresh Berries or Canned Fruit, Fried Kidneys 
or Calves' Brains, Cold Biscuit, Ginger Cookies, Tea. 



DINNELRS KOR AKOO^HER WEEK.* 



Jlfonday.— Boiled dinner with Corned Beef, Baked Rice Pud- 
ding. 

Tuesday.— Corn Beef (leftover). Scalloped, Pickled Beets, Eoast 
Potatoes, Mince or any kind of Pie. 

TFednesday.— Boiled leg of Mutton (save the liquor in which it 
is boiled). Drawn Butter or Caper Sauce, Vegetables, Slaw with Dress- 
ing. Gingerbread with Hot Sweet Sauce. 

T/iia«day.— Make Soup of the Mutton Liquor left (adding the 
bones) with Egg-Dumpling or Soup-Balls, Hash of the remnants of the 
Mutton, spread 1 inch thick on slices of Toast, Poach Eggs and lay one, 
on each slice. Vegetables, Tapioca Pudding. 

Friday. — Chowder or Fresh Fish in some form, or Baked Salt Cod 
with Cheese, Vegetables, Squash or Pumpkin Pie. 

(SatuiYiay.— Ham and Eggs or Broiled Steak, Fried Apples, 
Roast Potatoes, Steamed Pudding with Sauce, or Cabinet Pudding. 

Sunday.— Btewed Oysters, Veal Steak, Vegetables, Cranberry 
Pie, Custard. 



THE TABLE. 439 



BRKAKRASTS. 



(Sunday.— Fried Chicken, Fried Sweet Potatoes, Pop-overs. 
Monday. — Ham and Eggs, Johnny Cake. 
Tuest/ay.— Macaroni, Veal Cutlets. 
Wednesday.— ^lackeve\, Saratoga Potatoes. 
Thursday. — Liver and Bacon, Rice Croquettes. 
jFriday.— Hominy, Laplanders, Hash. 
Saturday.— Oat-meal Mush, Ragout of Cold Meat. 



bilaLaS of farr. 



/rtenu for 0pG WsgI^. — By Gourses, 



MONDAY. 



BREAKFAST. 

Coffee. Oranges. Sweet Breads — Fried. 

Sliced Tomatoes. Fried Sweet Potatoes. 

Hot Crackers. 



DINNER. 

Oysters — Eaw. 

Consomme with Custards. 

Baked Blue Fish with Maitre d'Hotel Sauce and Saratoga Potatoes. 

Boiled Turkey with Oyster Sauce and Lima Beans. 

Lettuce Salad. 

Almond Custard Pudding. Almond Cream Cake. 

Cheese. Fruit. Coffee. 



TUESDAY. 



BREAKFAST. 

Chocolate. Fruit. Turkey Hash. 

Radishes. Cucumbers. 



440 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

festers on the Half Shell. Puree of Green Peas. 

Baked Shad with Potato Croquettes. 
Koast Lamb. Mint Sauce. 

Canned Green Peas. Celery Salad. 
Cream Puffs. Lemon Jelly. 
Fruit, Coffee. 

WEDKRSDAY. 



BKEASFA8T. 

Cocoa. Figs and Dates. 

Lamb Curry. Scalloped Tomatoes. 

Breakfast Bread (Cornmeal). 



DnOTER. 

Oyster Soup or Puree of Cauliflower. 

Broiled Mackerel with Maitre d'Hotel Potatoes. 

Fillet of Beef with Mushrooms. 

Lettuce Mayonnaise. Lemon Sponge. 

Ice Cream. Fancy Cakes. 

Fruit. Coffee. 



THURSDAY. 



BREAKFAST. 

Coffee. Grapes or Bananas. 

Fish Croquettes with Saratoga Potatoes. 

Rice Muffins. Cheese Omelet. 



niNlTEIt. 

Oysters — Eaw. 

Tomato Soup. Turbot. Cucumbers. 

Snipe with Cupped Potatoes. 

Potato Salad. Banana Charlotte. 

Chocolate Tarts. Cheese. Coffee. 



FRIDAY. 



BREAKFAST, 

Chocolate. Strawberries. 

Trout. 
Eadishes. Sliced Tomatoes. 

Oyster Omelet. 



THE TABLE. 



441 



DiyTTER. 

Clams. 

Mock Turtle Soup. 

Boiled Fish with Egg Sauce. Saratoga Potatoes. 

Veal Breast with Tomato Sauce and Rice Croquettes, 

Oyster Omelet. Water Cress Salad. 

Omelet Souffle with Fancy Cakes or Lemon Jelly with 

Whipped Cream and Fancy Cakes . 
Cheese. Fruit. Coffee. 



SATURD^A-Y. 



Cocoa. 



BREAKFAST. 

Veal Croquettes with Asparagus. 
Water Cress. 



Pine-apples. 



I>INNER. 

Oysters. f 

Gumbo with Rice. Baked Blue Fish. 

Potato Balls or Potatoes Hollandaise. 

Chicken Croquettes with Asparagus. Queen Fritters with Sauce. 

Sweet-bread Salad. 

Bavarian Cream and White Cake with Tutti Frutti Frosting. 

Fruit. Coffee. 



SUNDAY, 



Tea and Chocolate. 
Asparagus. 

Baked Fish— Stuffed. 



BREAKFAST. 

Broiled Chops. 

DINNER. 

Oysters— Fried. 
Jardiniere Soup. 



Strawberries. 
Baked Tomatoes. 

Potato Croquettes. 



Roast Pork with Fried Apples and Butter Beans. 

Artichokes. 

Broiled Chicken. Cauliflower. 

Tomato Mayonnaise or Water-cress Salad. 

Strawberries with Whipped Cream. Tutti Frutti Ice Cream. 

FiTiit. Coffee. 



442 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

DINNER PABTT. 

Oysters — Eaw. 

Mock Turtle Soup. Salmon with Lobster Sauce. 

Cucumbers. Chicken Croquettes. Cauliflower. 

Fillet of Veal with Mushrooms or Roast Lamb with Spinach. 

Canvas-back Ducks. Celery.or Potato Puffs. 

Chicken Salad or Chicken Mayonnaise. 
Asparagus with Cream. Macaroni with Cheese. 
Lemon Jelly with Whipped Cream. 

Chocolate Pudding or Bavarian Cream. 
Creme de la Creme Charlotte Russe or Coffee Charlotte Eusse. 
Tutti Frutti Ice Cream and Fancy Cakes. 
Fruits. Coffee. 
The Ice Cream may be omitted and the last course consist of Water 
Ices, Fruit and Coffee. This same bill of fare may be very much 
simplified. 

COLLATION. 

[The dishes served at a collation are always cold.] 

Raw Oysters. 
Lobster Patties. Boned Turkey. 

Chicken Sandwiches or Chicken and Ham Sandwiches. 
Raspberry or Strawberry Short Cake. 

Almond Cheese Cakes and Lady Fingers. 
Ices. Fruit. Strawberry Sherbet. 
Orange Cream, Chocolate Cream, Cake or Creme de la Creme Char- 
lotte Russe may be served instead of Strawberry Shortcake. 



CBTTRCH LUNCH FOR TTTENTT-FIFE PERSONS. 

Ice Cream, 1^ gallons. 3 Loaves of Cake of 5 pounds each. 

4 Loaves of Bread or 1 dozen Biscuits. 
^ pound Butter. I pound of Coffee to 6 quarts water. 

1 pound siigar. 

1 quart of Cream or 1 gallon milk. 2 quarts of pickles. 

8 pounds of Ham. 

3 cans of Fruit or 3 quarts Cranberries. 

PIGNIGS. 

Meats, pickles and relishes of all kinds are usually more 
appetizing in an out-of-doors lunch, than rich cakes and cloying 
sweets. 



THE TABLE. 443 

Sandwiches are always nice. It is optional whether the filling 
consists of grated or chopped ham, or sliced meats, though unless 
the meat is very tender and sliced very thin, the grated filling is 
preferable. 

Chicken Cheese, pressed chicken, pressed veal and veal loaf 
are in great esteem. Pickled hard-boiled eggs, radishes, cucum- 
bers, cold slaw, potato or other salads are in demand. 

Potted Meats and bottled pickles are good. Rolls and biscuit, 
bread in the loaf, or buttered slices laid together. Jellies and 
marmalades in glasses are sufficient. Pie and small fancy cakes 
are usually relished. 

Lemons, sugar, tea, coffee, salt and pepper are among the 
essentials. Fresh fruit also, and be sure that knives, spoons, forks 
and cups are not left out. 

GHIIaDRRN'S partirs. 

Make the table bright as possible for the httle guests with 
flowers and fruits. Have the dishes as attractive as possible. 

Snow-Balls, Cornucopias, Lady Fingers, Cream Puffs, Tarts, 
Jelly, Orange, Almond, Chocolate, etc. Small Frosted Cakes, 
Harlequin Jelly, Love-knots, Molded Jellies, Frosted Fruits, Fresh 
Fruits, Harlequin Blanc-mange, Sliced Cold Tongue or pressed 
Veal sliced. Rolls or Biscuit, Pop Corn Balls, Confectionery Nuts. 
Ice-cream in molds, if possible, and of two or more colors. 
Lemonade. Chocolate is the best warm drink. If one large cake is 
wished, make in a pyramid of three or four loaves, frosted. A bag 
of Crystallized Pop-Corn may be given each one; mix with candy, 
if wanted ; make the bags any shape of bright colored tarleton. 
Distribute these last of all, that they may be taken home. Two 
loaves on stands wreathed with flowers, and flowers in the center 
of each loaf may take the place of the pyramid. 

MAKING RRADY. 

The chief secret of all preparations for expected guests, is to 
make as many of the preparations as possible before the arrival of 
gu€8ts. Fruits may be selected the day before, carefully wiped, 



444 



THREE MEALS A DAY. 



arranged in their appropriate dislies and set away until time for 
using. Nuts should be picked over, cracked, ready to serve. All 
the table-linen carefully sorted out and arrange for use. 

The silver-ware and china should be prepared for use at all 
times. When turkey is to be served for dinner, it can be made 
ready for the oven the day before. A chicken-pie may also be 
baked and heated next day. Mince pies are better for keeping a 
few days, and are always ready to serve. When wanted, craubeny 
jelly may be prepared and molded. Then there are some desserts 
that can be made ready and are as good or even better for keeping 
a day or two. Consult the recipes. Dressings for salads, and cold 
sauces for puddings, may be made the day before and kept nicely, 
especially if ice is handy. 

With all these matters attended to in time, no hostess need 
tremble for the result, nor dread the accidents and failures almost 
certain to ensue where hurry and confusion rule the hour. Of more 
importance still, her time is left free to entertain her guests. 

Much anxiety and care is overcome by having all things 
ready. 




MQ^^EKEEPIMQ. 



■^Dh 




HOUSR GIaRANING. 

*HE regular routine of the winter's work, no matter how care- 
fully performed, leaves ample necessity for the annual or 
semi-annual return of that domestic revolution popularly 
termed "house-cleaning." An event so punctual, proper, and at the 
same time so disagreeable and wearisome in its recurrence that a few 
hints as to simplifying its details will be by no means out of place. 

The Cellar. — Begin with the cellar. Empty the ash bin, 
clear the furnace and dispose of the useless rubbish. See that no 
decaying vegetables are left in dark comers to render the atmos- 
phere of the whole house prolij&c of disease. If the air of the 
cellar should seem very close, all impurities and parasitical growths 
may be destroyed by closing the doors and windows and burning 
a little brimstone (powdered) in an old pan. This may not always 
be necessary, but every year the following : 

White-wash for cellars should be liberally coated over ceil- 
ings and wood-work. Make a common white-wash after any of 
the rules given, and add to it copperas, which is a cheap article, 
in the proportion of 6 or 8 pounds for ^ bushel hme. This has 
cleansing and disinfecting properties not to be over-estimated, 
and is a preventative of the ravages of rats and mice. Some apply 
this wash twice a year. It is also useful for applying to kitchen 
closets. 

Damp cellars. — To prevent damp cellars and milk-rooms, 
place a peck of fresh lime in an open box and stand on the floor. 
This is invaluable. A peck of lime will absorb about 7 pounds, or 
more than 3 quarts of water. In this way a cellar or milk-room 
may soon be dried, even in the hottest weather. A bushel of lime 

(445) 



446 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

absorbs 27 pounds of water and still appears as a dry powder. In 
this condition it will be very useful to spread over the garden, 
lawn, or around fruit trees, or it may be used for a white-wash. 
With lime in the cellar, chills will be an unknown quantity. 

To Purify Brains — Dissolve 2 pounds of copperas in a pail 
of water; should be washed down all drains, sinks, vaults, etc. 
All pipes leading from the kitchen should have boiling lye turned 
down them once a week, at least, in sufficient quantities to eat 
away the accumulation of grease that coats the interior of the 
pipe. A few drops of carbolic acid should be poured down the 
pipes leading from stationary wash-stands. What, little odor that 
escapes into the room is very beneficial to any one afflicted with 
throat trouble. Any decomj^osing substance may be rendered 
odorless by a layer of powdered charcoal, quicklime or common 
road dust, which is in itself a good disinfectant. 

Closets should be next in order. Examine all cast-off clothing 
in attic and store-rooms and distribute to the needs of others. Sort 
and put in paper sacks or pasteboard boxes the " odds and ends " 
that every thrifty housewife reserves for time of need, labeling each 
distinctly for convenience sake. 

Wash and wipe floors and shelves ; while these are drying 
have the garments and bedding on lines airing in the sun and wind. 
Damp cloths only should be used for shelves, as it is desirable 
they should dry quickly. Sweep the walls and ceilings. Dust 
Persian powder in all the cracks to prevent moths and other in- 
sects, or sprinkle benzine plentifully in the crevices. The odor 
will evaporate quickly. Be careful in handling it as it is very in- 
flammable. These rules apply to attic and closet. 

To Prevent Moths. — Take furs and other winter clothing, 
before the insidious miller claims them for its home; hang out doors 
in the wind, brush well with a whisk-broom, and envelop in brown 
paper sacks. Wrap the more valuable articles in newspapers be- 
fore putting in the sacks. Printers' ink being one of the best 
preservatives against the depredations of moths. Turn over the 
edges of the sack and paste carefully down with a little flour paste 
(raw flor.x and cold water stirred smoothly together will answer), 
making sure that there are no openings in the sack where the moth 



HOUSEKEEPING. 447 

miller can creep in. This is absolutely safe if done early in the 
season. Blankets, shawls, cloaks, etc., can be wrapped in large 
papers. Label every article as it is fastened, and keep a little 
memoranda book of where each package is put, that when one es- 
pecial article is needed it can be found at once. Camphor gum is 
apt to turn furs a light color. A cedar box is very nice to put 
these packages in, but in its absence a whisky or alcohol barrel is 
equally good. A little bergamot or some other perfume will do 
away with the odor. 

Keturn all articles to the closets, close the doors and every- 
thing is ready for cleaning the rooms. 

One Boom at a time is all that should be undertaken. In 
this way dust, turmoil and misery, too often attendant upon house- 
cleaning, are avoided. A large, clean, soft dust-cloth, if very 
slightly moistened, is much the best. Dust carefully every article 
of furniture in the room, and carry either out doors or into an ad- 
joining room. Pictures and mirrors that are too large to be re- 
moved from the walls should be carefully dusted and then covered. 

Carpets. — Pull the tacks. Be careful not to break the heads 
and leave points in the floor. The carpet, if a Brussels or "Wilton, 
should be folded by the seams, instead of being gathered into a 
heap, as these carpets are creased by treatment that would not 
harm an "ingrain" or "three-ply." 

Leave the rope very slack before the carpet is hung, then lift 
to the required height by long and strong poles. Select for whips 
long, smooth, jQexible twigs, canes will answer. Carpets should 
never be shaken as their weight inclines them to part. In beating 
them whip the wrong side first and thoroughly, then the right 
side. Brussels, however, and other heavy carpets, should be 
whipped on the right side only, as they are so heavy that the dust 
cannot penetrate them. 

Sprinkle the floor from which the carpet has been removed 
with water containing a» little carbolic acid. This will lay the dust 
and destroy its poisonous action on the lungs — dampened saw- 
dust may be used instead. 

To Clean Wall Paper. — If not much soiled, simply wiping 
off with a soft cloth pinned over a broom, changing for a clean one 



44S THREE MEALS A DAY. 

frequently, will answer; another way, is to take 2 quarts of wheat 
bran, inclose it in a bag of thin open flannel or strainer cloth; with 
this rub the paper, shaking up every few minutes so as to keep the 
surface fresh. This is a very good method. 

Grease Spots OU Wall Paper may be removed by mixing 
pipe-clay or fuller's earth (an old clay pipe may be ground fine 
and used,) with water to a paste. Lay on the spot, let remain all 
night, in the morning remove with a knife or brush. 

Grease Spots on Floors may be scoured perfectly clean by 
the use of strong pearlash water or sal-soda. Mix this with sand if 
the spot is very large. 

Broken Places in Walls may be filled with a mixture of 
white sand and plaster of Paris made into a paste with a little 
water. Cover over with a bit of paper to match that on the 
wall. 

Smoked Ceilings that have been blackened by a kerosene 
lamp may be washed off with soda water. 

To Remove Paint and putty stains from window glass, dip a wet 
cloth in baking soda and rub the paste thus made thinly over the 
glass. Let remain fifteen minutes, and wash in warm, soft water, 
without soap. This will bring all the stains with it. Eub dry and 
polish. 

Second— Wash the window glass with hot, sharp vinegar; this 
will remove mortar and paint. 

Grained wood work should be washed with cold tea. 

Oiled and varnished woods should be simply wiped with a 
flannel cloth wrung out of warm, soft water. 

Painted wood-work may be washed with a few drops of 
ammonia in the water used. Put 1 teaspoonful of ammonia in a 
quart of warm soap-suds, dip in a flannel cloth; apply rather lightly 
but rapidly ; dust and specks will all disappear. 

Second. — Dip a flannel cloth in warm soap-suds and then in 
whiting; applied to paint, this will instantly remove grease and soil 
of every description; wipe off with clear water. Delicate paints 
will not be injured but look like new. 

To wash windows take a little spirits of ammonia on a sponge, 
ru J over the glass touching every part of the pane, then rub briskly 



HOUSEKEEPING. 449 

with a piece of soft paper; this does away with soap and water and 
leaves the glass brighter. 

Second — Dip a damp cloth in whiting, and rub on the glass ; 
rub to get off all dirt, then let it dry on ; after which rub with a 
dry cloth ; it is nice for nickel-plating and knives and forks. This 
method is also useful for show cases and mirrors. 

The floor may be cleaned next, with water containing 
ammonia or soap. Simply wipe off, scrubbing is not necessary on 
floors protected by carpets. 

Wipe the floor carefully a second time. A handful of borax 
in this water will act as a preventive of moths. 

Carpets may now, when the floor is perfectly dry, be returned 
to the room carefully stretched and tacked in place. Use carpet - 
lining paper, or two or three layers of newspapers, though some 
adhere to the old fashion of putting straw under carpets. 

Moths in carpets must be carefully guarded against when 
carpets are laid. Borax water is good and should be used. Lay 
the carpet down, turn the edges back, sprinkle salt or black pepper 
and turn the edges back and tack firmly. *' 

Heavy carpets do not require to be taken up every year; 
remove tacks from these, fold the edges back, wash about a foot of 
the floor all around in strong soap-suds with a tablespoonful of 
borax dissolved in 1 quart of water. When dry, dust with insect 
powder and re-tack. 

Second. — Lay a damp cloth quite wide and wet along the 
edges of the carpet while on the floor, and iron dry; the steam will 
kill both moths and eggs. This will answer for any style of 
carpeting. 

To BRIGHTEN CARPETS, the ammonia and water mentioned 
before, wiped over an entire carpet, is useful. It is necessary to 
wring out the cloth frequently and get a fresh supply of the solu- 
tion. 

Second. — Sprinkle a pound of damp salt over the surface and 
sweep off. 

Save the ravelings when putting a new carpet down ; they 
will be very useful to mend with when it begins to wear. 

To Take out Grease Spots From Carpets.— Cover the 

29 



450 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

spots with fresh buckwheat, removing it as fast as it absorbs the 
grease and applying fresh until the spots disappear. 

Second. — Kerosene oil spilled upon a carpet will often entirely 
disappear by evaporation if the room is closed and kept from dust. 
If the spot still remains, a thick coating of powdered French chalk 
bbould be spread over it and heated occasionally by laying a brown 
paper over it and pressing with a hot iron. 

Discolored Spots on Carpet can be frequently restored by 
rubbing with a sponge dipped in ammonia diluted with water; 
clothing the same. Ox-gall is useful for same purpose. 

Soot on Carpets, falling from an open chimney, may be swept 
up without the slightest trouble by sprinkling it lavishly with salt 
at first and then sweeping. 

Stair Carpet Pads should be made by folding waste cotton 
or pieces of old quilts in newspapers ; have them a little shorter 
than the carpet is wide. Put them over the edge just where the 
foot naturally strikes the front of the stair. It will preserve the 
carpet and deaden the sound of footsteps. Old pieces of carpeting, 
doubled^ are very good for this purpose. If the stair carpet is a 
little longer than the stairs, it can be moved up or down at different 
times so as to last longer. 

Furniture Polish. — Take 4 ounces of alcohol, 4 ounces of 
boiled oil, 1 ounce of Japan dryer, and 1 ounce of benzine. Mix 
all and shake well while using. This removes all foreign sub- 
stances, at the same time gives a fine polish. Eub dry with a 
woolen cloth. This recipe sells regularly for seventy-five cents. 

Furniture Polish, (II), must be made use of before the 
furniture is brought back to the room. Any of these given below 
are reliable: 1st. Mix equal parts of vinegar, spirits of turpen- 
tine and sweet oil in a bottle. Apply with a flannel cloth and 
polish afterward with a piece of chamois-skin or silk. It is better 
than a coat of varnish and will remove spots also. 2nd. Ten 
cents worth of bees-wax melted in a tin-cup in a hot oven; add to 
this 2 ounces of turpentine and let cool. / pply briskly to the 
furniture and polish with an old silk handkerchief. 3rd. A little 
kerosene rubbed into furni^^^ure with a flannel improves the color 
and polishes it. The odor quickly evaporates. 



HOUSEKEEPING. 45 1 

Black Walnut furniture may be cleaned and polished with 
the following mixture: ^ pint warm strong coffee, 1 tablespoonful 
linseed oil (boiled). Apply with flannel; polish with a dry flan- 
nel. Great improvement. 

Furniture Yarnish. — IJ ounces linseed oil, raw; 1 ounce 
alcohol, ^ ounce Venice turpentine, 4 drops benzine, 4 drops 
spirits turpentine. 

Mirrors and picture glasses should be pohshed with a bit of 
chamois-skin squeezed out of clear water, and then polished with 
a dry piece of the same. 

To Clean a Library provided with enclosed stationary cases, 
the books should be taken out after the first washing of the floor, 
carefully freed from dust by striking two volumes together in the 
hand — never dust books iu any other way — and retm-u to the cases. 
If the cases are open, dust the books and remove to another apart- 
ment before the carpet is disturbed. 

To Wash Oil Cloth. — Take milk and water. Never use soap- 
suds, as this dulls the colors. Rub over with a mixture of ^ bees- 
wax, melted, and while warm stirred into a saucer of turpentine. 
Apply with a flannel cloth and polish with a dry flannel. Or wash 
as above and oil with sweet oil or butter. Polish. 

To Clean Zinc. — Rub carefully with kerosene and polish with 
newspapers. This combination of printers' ink and kerosene 
effectually removes all stains. 

Nickle Trimmings on stoves may be cleaned with kerosene 
and whiting. Polish with dry flannel. Common soda will polish 
nickleplating also. 

Spots on Varnished Furniture may be removed by rubbing 
with essence of peppermint or spirits of camphor and afterward 
using furniture pohsh or linseed oil. Sometimes holding a hot 
fire-shovel over them will remove them. Polish afterward. 

Mica in stoves may be cleaned by washing in hot \dnegar. 
K it does not clean readily let remain wet some time. 

To Wash Matting wipe off with a cloth wrung from salt and 
water. This prevents turning yellow. 

To Remove Grease" from Marble.— Apply a paste made of 
crude potash and whiting mixed with water, or mix quicklime t{f 



452 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

the consistency of cream with strong lye. Apply with a hrush. 
For either method let remain twenty-fonr hours and wash off with 
soap and water. Polish the surface and the marble appears like 
new. A paste of whiting with benzine will work wonders. 

To Remoye Iron Stains from Marble.— Take an equal 
quantity of fresh spirits of vitriol and lemon juice. Mis in a bot- 
tle, shake well, wet the spots and in a few minutes nib with a soft 
linen cloth until they disappear. 

To Sweep Carpets use salt, dampened sawdust, bran or old 
tea leaves. 

In the Kitchen. — Attend to the closets first. A coat of cop- 
peras white-wash will be useful, or plain white-wash. Put the boiler 
over, fill with strong soap-suds, adding a good handful of sal-soda. 
Into this put all the tins and let boil half an hour. Take the 
lamp burners and boil in the same fashion, using some old pan for 
this purpose. When removed, rinse well and wipe dry. 

Ammonia will be found a necessity in the kitchen work. Its 
uses are manifold. Some of them have been mentioned before. 
It is cheap and the crude article can be bought for household pur- 
pdses. Put it in dish-water, and the pans and kettles where meat 
has been cooked, and grease will disappear like magic. 

To Oil a Floor. — Get common boiled linseed oil ; heat boil- 
ing hot, and while hot go over the floor, using an old paint-brush 
and keeping the oil hot all the time. Even if the floor is very 
rough and inclined to sliver, this will make a great improvement. 
Have the floor very clean before using. Two'coats of oil may be 
needed if the floor is very bad ; 1 tablespoonf ul of yellow ochre to 
1 quart of oil makes it light. The same of burnt umber will color 
it dark. 

To Wash Dishes. — Fill the dish-pan half full of very hot 
water and to that quantity add i or | cupful of sweet milk. It 
softens the hardest water, gives the dishes a clear bright look, and 
keeps the hands from roughening by the use of soap. It cleans 
the greasiest dishes without lea\'ing the water covered with a scum. 
Kettles and pans that have had meat cooked in them should be 
half-filled with hot water and set back on the stove (a little am- 
monia in the water will help). Pour this out when ready and wash 



HOUSEKEEPING. 453 

in hot milk and water. An easy method. To save still farther 
trouble wash the dishes as above, rinse in very hot water, lay a 
soft towel in the bottom of a large milk-pan or a broad, shallow 
willow basket and pack the dishes in this to drain. At meal time 
bring out the basket and set the table, being careful that there are 
no rough streaks on the china for sensitive finger-tips "to feel. 
Wipe knives, forks and spoons as usual. 

A Dish Mop may be made by fastening a quantity of candle 
wicking or soft linen rags to a wooden handle the required length. 
The mop part should be five inches long when finished. 

Old Newspapers are very useful in the kitchen, Pohsh the 
tea-kettle with some. If very smoky moisten and dip in a little 
soda. Rub again with a fresh paj)er and the result will be gratify- 
ing. The coffee-can may be treated in the same manner, while 
they will put the finishing touch to newly polished silver, and will 
be found excellent to pohsh stoves that have not been blackened 
for some time. 

Brass and Copper Kettles may be cleaned with a bit of flan- 
nel dipped in kerosene. 

Flat-irons maybe rubhed in kerosene and scoured with sand- 
paper if rough. 

Blacking for Stoves will take polish much more easily if a 
httle turpentine or benzine is mixed -svith it. This rule is good: 
1 pound of black lead, 1 gill of turpentine, 1 gill of water and 1 
ounce of sugar. There will be a little odor when the fire is first 
lighted in the stove. Another way is to mix the blacking with 
warm suds or coffee. 

To Prevent Stoves Rusting.— Before putting away for the 
summer mix the blacking with a httle oil (spenn or kerosene) in- 
stead of water. This will prevent the summer rust. 

Sto\-e-pipes should be rubbed with kerosene before putting 
away in the spring. This prevents rust. 

New tins should he set over the fire with boiling water in 
them for several hours before food is placed in them. 

Stone and Earthenware Crocks. — Before being used for any 
purpose should be put in a boiler full of cold water. Allow this 
to boil and then to cool with the jars in it. This process fills the 



454 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

pores of tbe jar and it can be used for various purposes as long 
as it lasts, otherwise the first contents will render it unfit to be 
used for anything else. 

To Clean Knives. — Apply the bath brick or finely shaved 
common brick with the freshly cut half of an Irish potato. The 
juice of the potato will assist in polishing the steel. Use charcoal 
powder for polishing. This will not wear out the blades. 

To Remove Rust from Knives.— Cover the knives with sweet 
oil, well rubbed on, and after two days take a lump of fresh lime 
and rub till all the rust disappears. It forms a sort of soap with 
the oil, which carries off all the rust. 

Knife-Case. — A flannel knife-case tacked to the inside of a 
cupboard door, to be so constructed that there will be a separate 
compartment for each knife or fork. The flannel is sure to absorb 
any moisture left on a knife by carelessness or by accident. 

Fire and Water-proof Cement- — Mix finely sifted lime* 
with the whites of eggs (according to the quantity wished) until a 
paste is formed, add some iron filings. The paste should not be 
too thick. Apply this to the fractured edges, unite them. When 
dry they will be perfectly sound, fire and water-proof. Can be 
used on iron vessels. 

To Mend CracliS in a Stove.— Take 3 teaspoonfuls salt 
and 1 pint wood ashes, mix to a stiff paste with water; fill the 
cracks with this paste while the stove is hot, and when it becomes 
dry it will be as hard as cement. 

Scald the Brooms by dipping for a minute or two in boiling 
soap-suds. Do this once a week and it will keep them tough and 
flexible and prove a saving in both carpets and brooms. 

Wings of Fowls, turkeys, geese, etc., should never be 
thrown away. They may be used to dust furniture, to clean the 
stove or hearth, and there is nothing better wherewith to spread 
on the paste when papering walls. 

A High Stool is a necessary article in every kitchen. It can 
be used while washing dishes, ironing, preparing vegetables, etc. 
The fatigue saved while sitting at these occupations is incalculable. 
The stool may be plain, or it may bave a back and a rest for the 
feet, or a revolving top, but in any form it is invaluable. 



HOUSEKEEPING. 455 

Silver Polish. — | pound of Paris white stirred into 1 pint of 
boiling water. "When cold add 2 tablespoonfuls ammonia. Prepare 
a day before using and keep the bottle well corked. Shake thor- 
oughly each time before applying. Apply the polish to the entire 
surface of the article to be cleaned. Let dry on, and then rub 
first with a soft cloth and afterward polish with a bit of chamois- 
skin. 

Second. — Kub the plate first with an old napkin moistened 
with sweet oil, then with calcined magnesia or whiting. Polish 
with chamois-skin. 

To Restore Blackened Silver Plate.— When, from long 
neglect, plated ware becomes so blackened and stained that it can- 
not be restored by plate powder, take the following mixture: 1 
part of sal-ammonia with 16 parts of vinegar. Eub the stains 
gently with this and they will disappear. Then wash v/ ell in soap 
and water. If necessary polish afterward with sweet oil and mag- 
nesia or whiting. 

Kerosene will sometimes clean blackened silver almost in- 
stantly. 

To Keep a Copper Tea-kettle Brij^ht.— Wash occasion- 
ally with a solution of salt and buttermilk. Einse with clear 
water. 

GALaGIMINING, paprr-hang- 
ING, RT"G. 

Calciniining. — Soak 1 pound white glue over night, then 
dissolve it in boiling water and add 20 pounds Paris white, diluting 
with water until the mixture is of the consistency of rich milk. 
To this any tint can be given that is desired. 

Lilac. — Add to the calcimine 2 parts of Prussian blue and 1 
of vermilion, stirring thoroughly, and taking care to avoid too 
high a color. 

Brown. — Burnt umber. 

Gray. — Kaw umber, with a dash of lamp-black. 

EosE. — 3 parts of vermilion and 1 red lead, added in very 
small quantities until a delicate shade is produced. 



456 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Lavender. — Make a light blue and tint slightly with ver- 
milion. 

SiRAw.^Chrome yellow with a touch of Spanish brown. 

Buff. — 2 parts Indian yellow and one part burnt Sienna. 

Blue, — A small quantity of Prussian blue will give a soft azure 
tint. Dark blue is never desirable. Be sure the tints are delicate. 

The ceiling should have a coat two or three shades lighter 
than the walls, that it may appear merely a reflection of their 
deeper tones. The ceiling may be calcimined with the lighter 
tint, and then more color added for the walls. 

White-wash. — For other walls than hard finish, an excellent 
wash is made as follows . 

1^ bushel lime slaked with boiling skim milk, 3 quarts salt, 1 
pound white glue, previously dissolved in water. 

This is a hard and durable white-wash; does no.t easily rub 
off, and when tinted with any of the foregoing tints has nearly as 
good an effect as. calcimine. This same wash, with the glue 
omitted, makes a good white-wash, permanent, for out door build- 
ings, and is said to render wood incombustible. 

Paper-hanger's Paste. — 1 pint wheat flour and 1 paper silver 
gloss starch, second quality (some use flour alone, 3 or 4 pounds). 
Put in a wooden pail and add gradually enough cold water to make a 
smooth batter, stirring at the same time constantly and vigorously. 
Have a kettle of boiling water ready, turn into the flour and water, 
stirring until it thickens. Then pour over it gently 1 quart of cold 
water and set in a cool place until it is cold. The water over the 
top prevents a skim forming as it cools. If it is warm weather 
dissolve a piece of alum, half the size of an egg, in the boiling 
water. This wiU keep the paste from souring. A teaspoonful of 
clove oilwill keep it from molding. If insect life is plentiful 2 
large tablespoonfuls carbolic acid in the paste will eradicate it 
effectually. Copperas put in the paste, or Cayenne pepper either 
will keep mice from injuring the paper after it is on the wall, as 
they occasionally do in some localities. 

Before using the paste, tbin with cold water to a consis- 
tency that will spread easily and quickly under the brush. This 
paste will keep a long time^ without fermenting. If it should mold 



HOUSEKEEPING. 457 

it can be removed from the top and the remainder will be perfectly 
good. 

On hanging "flock" papers with crimson in them, omit the 
alum, as it will injure the color. 

If the paper is to be put on hard finished walls, or over var- 
nished paper or painted walls, a little more adhesiveness may be 
required. In this case, take a handful of white glue and melt in 
a httle water, turn this, when dissolved, into the paste, and there 
will be no trouble in this respect. 

Staining Floors. — 1 can of linseed oil and a little burnt 
umber. Apply as paint. 

Waxing Floors. — 1 pint turpentine, A pound bees-wax; melt 
over a sk)w fire, no blaze because the mixture is explosive. Apply 
to the floor with a piece of flannel. Pohsh with a dry piece of 
soft flannel. 

Faint for Floors. — 1 gallon linseed oil, 2 pounds gum shel- 
lac, ^ pound litharge, ^ pound red lead, 1 ounce umber. Boil 
slowly two or three hours until the gums are dissolved. Grind 
the paints, any color, in this and reduce with spirits of turpentine. 
Yellow ochre is the best for floor painting. This dries quickly and 
is also very nice for porch floors. 

To Remove Old Paint. — 2 pounds sal- soda, ^ pound lime, 
1 gallon hot water. Stir all together and apply while still warm 
to the old paint. The mixture will soon loosen the paint so you 
can easily remove it. 

To Soften Putty in Window Frames. — Use the same 
given above. Apply both sides the glass and let remain twelve 
hours when the glass can be removed without cutting. 

GARB. OF LaAMPS- 
To Gean Lamp Burners. — When they become clogged and 
refuse to work, and the lamps are sure to smoke, put them over 
the fire in an old pan, cover with water to which a teaspoonful of 
soda has been added, and boil; the burners will be found as good 
as new. 

To keep burners bright polish with kerosene every few morn- 
ings and rub dry with a woolen cloth. If very much smoked, 



458 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

immerse in a kerosene bath and scour finally with brick-dust and 
J, woolen cloth. Shining burners are an important factor in having 
a clear light. 

Cement for Lamp Tops.— Melted alum will be found very 
good for this purpose. Use as soon as melted, and as soon as the 
cement is cold the lamp will be found ready for use. 

Lamp Wicks may be made to fit, if not too large, by drawing 
out one thread near the selvedge. If this is done with a new wick 
there will be no trouble. 

To Clean Lamp Chimneys.— Wipe off carefully any smoke 
or dust and polish with a soft cloth; soap-suds dulls the glass; if 
any moisture is required, breathe down the chimney or hold over a 
steaming kettle, then polish. A soft sponge fastened to a long 
flexible whalebone will be found better for cleaning the inside of 
chimneys than any brush that can be bought. 

Lamps themselves should be frequently emptied and the 
bowls washed out with soap-suds; a few drops of ammonia added 
to the suds will help to remove the oily sediment. Dry thoroughly 
using the whalebone swab. If any water is left in the bowl the 
oil will sputter when first lighted. A well-filled lamp burns less 
oil than one half -trimmed. 

Lamps to Trim. — Do not cut the wiok, turn it just above the 
tube, take a match and shave off the charred end, thus insuring 
an even flame. Then turn the wick down below the edge of the 
tube that it may not draw up oil to soil the outside of the lamp. 
Do not fiU too full, kerosene kept in a warm room expands consider- 
ably and the result will be oily lamps, disagreeable to handle, 

BRDS AND BRDDINQ. 

The chief aim with regard to beds and bedding should be to 
use, as far as possible, such material only as can be thoroughly 
cleansed upon necessity. Feathers, fortunately for the health of 
the rising generation, are not considered the prime necessity now 
that they once were, and if used at aU, should have the utmost 
care taken to prevent the unwholesome consequences that follow 
in their wake. To render them endurable they cannot have too 
much air and fresh wind. A feather-bed exposed to the direct rays 



HOUSEKEEPING. 459 

of the sun will be found far from sweet, for the reason that the 
animal matter in the feathers, the oil in the quills, is made rancid 
by the sun's heat; hence the unpleasant odor. Put them in a dry, 
shady spot, if the day be windy so much the better, and night will 
find them fresh and sweet. Feather-beds and pillows would be 
very much freshened and lightened if left out in a drenching rain 
every spring. Expose them to smi and wind, but especially wind, 
on every side until perfectly dry. 

Be sure and air feather-beds and pillows as often and as 
regularly as possible. Pillow tickings are very apt to become 
unpleasantly soiled. Much of this might be avoided if pillows 
and bolsters were carefully protected by an extra casing of heavy 
cotton cloth, over which the ordinary pillow case may be drawn. 
Wash this second covering when necessary, and it will be found 
that the ticking can be preserved in cleanliness and the escape of 
the annoying down will be prevented at the same time. Air the 
pillows every day. 

Hair pillows are a very good substitute for feathers; finely 
spht corn husks are also used, but these rustle just enough to annoy 
a nervous sleeper. 

To Wash Feather-Beds and Pillows.— Fill a thirty gallon 
cask, or large tub, with warm water, put in it one pound of baking 
soda. Do not use soap, it inclines the feathers to stick together. 
Eip open one end, sink tick and feathers in the water until both 
are wet thoroughly. Then shake tlie feathers out of the tick in 
the water; when clean run them through a wringer, sew up a 
couple of sheets, put the feathers in, dry in the sun, turn and 
beat until the feathers are Ught. Have the ticking washed and 
dried, and put the feathers back. The best way to do this is to 
open the sheets at one end, take the open end of ticking and run 
the two together all around, the feathers can then be shaken in the 
ticking without trouble or flying down. Rip apart and sew up the 
tick. Thick ticking that the feathers cannot " breathe " through, 
should have the smallest possible opening left in each corner. Cut 
off a goose quill at both ends, put one in each'opening, sew fast to 
keep from coming out and the bed will be light and fluffy as new. 

Goose Feathers that are perfectly new, sometimes have a dis- 



460 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

agreeable ordor; this may be removed by washing the feathers as 
above and rinsing in water with a little ammonia in it and then in 
clear water, then run through wringer each time. If it is pillows 
only, they may be spread upon sheets to dry in some sunny spare 
room and filled into the ticks at leisure. 

Blankets, Quilts and counterpanes are best for continual 
wear. Comforters are very nice to throw over the bed on the out- 
side for extreme cold weather. Do not use them next to the sheet, 
as they absorb animal heat and are to heavy to renovate frequently. 
Blankets should be aired occasionally through the winter and 
shaken often. It is really much better to always protect them by 
sheets, as they are very heavy to wash frequently besides being 
somewhat spoiled by the operation. 

Comfortable Shams should always be used. Cover the top 
where they come in contact with the breath of the sleeper, with a 
breadth of calico the length of the quilt; fold down on each side 
evenly and baste. This can be removed and washed when 
necessary. Comforts made of wool are warmer and lighter than 
cotton ; if cotton is used, buy the best grades only. 

Washing Comfortables and Quilts is an easy afiFair and 
should be attended to oftener than is usual. Simply soak them an 
hour or two in a warm soap-suds, not too strong. Then rinse up 
and down in this water, pound with a stick until they appear clean. 
Drain, do not wring, rinse in plenty of clean, pure water, drain 
and hang on the line. While drying, shake the wrinkles out. 
Choose a bright, windy day for this. They will be fresh and 
puffy as if new. This is one reason that the best cotton should 
be chosen, as it washes better. 

Quilts Streaking in Drying may be remedied by laying out 
over night in a heavy dew, the streaked side uppermost. In the 
morning turn this side down and leave in the sun until thoroughly 
dry, when the streaks will have disappeared. Comfortables that are 
not too badly soiled maybe renovated in the same manner; repeat 
several days. 

Mattresses should have heavy cotton or wool comfortables 
made the exact size of the mattress, or wide enough to tuck under 
the sides to protect it from dust. This will make the mattress 



HOUSEKEEPING. 46 1 

softer, will protect it, and besides, can be washed as often as 
necessary for purposes of renovation. Air the mattresses as often 
as possible, and let the sun into the sleeping rooms at every 
opportunity. 

Ventilation of Sleeping Rooms should be carefully attended 
to. A sheet of finely perforated zinc substituted for an upper pane 
of glass in a chamber window is one of the cheapest and best forms 
of ventilation known. 

Second. — Kaise the window on the windward side a few inches 
and close the opening at the bottom with a piece of board cut to 
fit it, rest the sash upon this. Either of these methods are worth 
a trial. 

Spare Beds should be thoroughly aired for the benefit of the 
chance guest to dissipate the dampness and do away with the 
dangers that too often lurk about a long unused bed. Opening the 
coverings and gathering them over and around a jug of hot water 
for two or three hours is a good method. At the very last turn 
back and air carefully. Fresh sheets also will do away with damp- 
ness in some measure. 

Bedsteads should be carefully attended to. Brush thoroughly, 
and apply to the inner portions a coating of varnish. Turpentine, 
applied with a brush to all the crevices, is thoroughly destructive 
of insect life. But, whatever is used, varnish or turpentine, be 
sure that it touches every crack and crevice. (Climax cleansing 
fluid is useful.) Never allow dust to gather around springs, slats 
or mattresses. 

THR LAUNDRY. 

Washing Fluid (Extea). — 1 ball potash, i ounce salts of 
tartar, | ounce carbonate of ammonia. Dissolve in 1 gallon warm 
water, keep on the stove until heated, mix, keep in a jug or bottle 
well corked. Soak the soiled clothes over night. In the morning 
put 3 pails of cold water in the boiler, and add to it 1^ bars of soap 
shaved fine, and 1 cupful of the washing fluid. Put in the clothes 
least soiled first. Let the water heat up gradually and boil one-half 
hour, stirring frequently. Take out into a tub of warm water, rub 
the soiled portions if necessary, rinse and blue. 



462 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Non-Boiling Washing Fluid. — ^ pound sal-soda, i pound 
borax, ^ ounce gum camphor, ^ pint alcohol, ^ pint turpentine. 
Dissolve the camphor in the alcohol; pulverize the soda and borax 
and dissolve in 3 gallons of rain water. Mix the whole together 
and add 3 gallons more of rain water. It is then ready for use. 

Take 1 pint of soft soap, or ^ bar of hard soap, shaved fine, and 
mix with 1 cupful of the fluid. Make a warm, not hot, suds in a 
tub and soak the clothes one-half hour, then rub out, rinse, and the 
work is done. Keep the fluid tightly corked. 

Centennial Soft Soap. — 4 pounds of the common bar castile 
soap, shave fine; 4 pounds of common bar soap, shave fine; 3 
pounds sal-soda, 8 ounces aqua ammonia. Dissolve all but the 
ammonia in 2 pailfuls of hot rain water. Let cool. While 
cooling test the soap, and add as much water as will make it the 
consistency of good soft soap. When cool this will make about 
100 pounds of the best soft soap. Add the ammonia while it is 
cooling and mix thoroughly. 

Centennial Hard Soap. — If any part of this is desired hard, 
boil the required portion one hour, adding 1 bar soap and ^ pound 
sal-soda to it. If the soap is wanted white, the castile and other 
soap must be white. If it should be desirable to scent the hard 
soap, 4 ounces of bergamot may be added to 50 pounds of soap. 

DniECTioNs FOR USING either the hard or soft Centennial soap. 
Soak the clothes in a strong suds made by dissolving the soap; also 
rub a little on all the soiled spots. Let them stand over night. 
No wash-board or boiler will be required. Simply rinse out in the 
morning in two cool waters. The clothes will not be injured. Soak 
in separate tubs if there is a great difference in quality of clothes. 

Ammonia for Washing. — Make the suds as usual, put into 
the three pailfuls 2 or 4 tablespoonfuls ammonia, according to the 
hardness of the water, this whitens the clothes. Boil from ten to 
twenty minutes, according to the soiled state of the clothes. Rinse 
in the usual way, rubbing any soiled spots. Many persons wash 
calicos, flannels and bed quilts in this manner; rinse the flannels 
in rather warm water. Thej' will not shrink nor turn yellow. 

Borax for Washing may be used in the same manner as 
ammonia. It will not injure the clothes, being a neutral salt while 



HOUSEKEEPING. 463 

its whitening properties are invaluable. Use a large handful of 
the borax powder to 10 gallons of the boiling suds. 

Extra Hard Soap (Cheap). — 4 bars yellow soap, shaved fine; 
2 pounds sal-soda, 6 ounces borax, 2 ounces liquid ammonia. Put 
the soap in 8 quarts of soft water to dissolve. If the water is hard, 
break it first. When the soap is nearly dissolved over the fire add 
the borax and sal-soda. Stir until all is melted. Pour into a large 
tub, or shallow pan. "When partly cool add the ammonia slowly, 
mixing well. Let stand a day or two and then cut into cakes or 
bars. Do this in a warm place. No better soap can be found for 
all kinds of washing, and the outlay can be covered by three cents 
per pound. This recipe has often been sold for five dollars. 

Lye Hard Soap. — 1 pound concentrated potash dissolved in 
2 quarts of boiling water. Let stand until luke-warm, then pour into 
the lye 5 pounds of clean grease also luke-warm; stir twenty min- 
utes, and, while stirring, pour in gradually 3 ounces of ammonia. 
When cold cut in bars. It is best to let it cool in something broad 
and shallow. This is very convenient to make when a quantity of 
grease has accumulated. It should be tried out before putting into 
the lye. 

Lye Soft Soap. — Ashes should be from good wood, or the lye 
will be weak. Keep the ashes dry until a week before using ; see 
that they are well packed down in the leach, which can be made 
out of a barrel. Then pour on water until the lye begins to 
drip slightly; leave it to soak out the strength of the ashes for a 
week. Then pour on water and begin to run off lye. The proper 
strength can be told by its floating a fresh egg. If it is not strong 
boil it, or turn it back through the ashes again. Then add clear 
grease, or "soap-grease" in the proportion of 1 pound to 1 gallon 
of lye, boil until it is dissolved, then dip in a feather and if, on 
taking out, the plume part can be stripped off with the fingers, it 
requires more grease, which should be added until it will take no 
more. If a white scum rises skim off (it is grease), or add a little 
more lye. Boil until it looks soapy. If the lye remains weak, on 
account of poor ashes, add potash until it is of sufficient strength. 

Soft Soap. — 5 pounds of potash in 5 gallons warm, soft water. 
Let dissolve over night. In the morning put over with 4 pounds of 



464 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

grease and boil until it is thick and soapy. If the lye needs more 
grease add it, test with a feather. If there is too much grease, 
which can be told by a scum rising, add a little more lye. Pour 
all in a keg, or half barrel, and add sufficient soft water to make 
it the proper consistency. It is much easier to boil a small quantity 
and thin afterwards. 

Cold Soap. — The grease for this should be tried out. Do this 
gradually as scraps accumulate ; pour the grease, a little at a time, 
into a kettle kept for the puvpc>se. Tallow and lard scraps, after 
the clear fat has been pressed out, are put in water aud boiled, then 
strained through a colander, the grease left to rise, removed in a 
cake from the surface of the water, boiled up and poured hot into 
the soap-grease kettle. Working in this manner makes a solid mass 
of pure grease that never molds. Twenty-five pounds of grease 
will make a barrel of soap. Fill the barrel half full of lye strong 
enough to bear uj) an egg. Heat the grease boiling hot and pour 
into the lye. Stir often, and when it begins to thicken, fill up with 
weak lye. If made in cold weather, heat the lye as weU as the 
grease. It never fails to thicken, and is much whiter and cleaner 
than boiled soap. In warm weather the soap may be made by 
putting the cold grease directly into the cold lye and leaving in the 
sun; stir often. 

Transparent Soap. — 1 pound of yeUow bar soap shaved in 
thin slices, ^ pint of alcohol. Put in a small stone jar. Put that 
into a kettle of cold water and let the water boil for ten minutes, 
stirring the soap all the time. Scent to please, bergamot or rose, 
and pour into molds. 

Climax Cleansing Fluid.— This fluid will remove paint, 
grease, etc., from all sorts of fabrics without injury to the most 
delicate. Carpets are renovated to a charm by its use. 2 ounces 
of ammonia, 1 teaspoonful saltpeter, 1 ounce of finely scraped 
variegated soap, Babbit's will do, some use shaving soap, 1 quart 
of soft water, mix all together and let stand a few days without 
using. Cover the spot to be cleansed and rub with a sponge, then 
wash out with clear warm water. For carpets sweep off the dust, 
cover the spots well with the liquid and then scrub them with a 
common scrubbing brush, and wash off with clear water. 



HOUSEKEEPING. 465 

This Slime fluid ajipJied with a small brush to every crack and 
crevice in a bedstead will be found certain death to all insect life. 

To Remove Orease Spots.— Alcohol, 4 jparts; ammonia, 1 
part; ether, i part. Mix. Apply the liquid to the grease spot, 
and then rub diligently with a sponge and clear water; Or use 
Climax Cleansing Fluid. In common goods the spot may be 
rubbed a little with the sponge, but in light goods simply apply it. 
Some very delicate articles may have grease removed by covering 
the spot with powdered French chalk and laying the garment away 
for several days. 

To Soften Hard Water.— To a boiler f full of water 
put in sal-soda the size of a large egg. This will not injure the 
clothes, will whiten and save rubbing. Use sal-soda for cleaning 
floors. 

The Economy of Borax.— The addition of an ounce of borax 
to a pound of soap melted in with a little water and not boiled, 
will save one half in cost of soap and three-fourths in labor of 
washing, besides leaving the hands soft and silky and the clothes 
very white. 

Billing.— Draw a cloth through the bluing water first to take 
upany floating particles; also dissolve the bluing in warm water. 
Shake the folds out of garments before putting in the bluing 
water. This will prevent streaks. 

Liquid Bluing. 1 ounce pulverized Prussian Blue, i ounce 
pulverized oxalic acid, 1 quart soft water. Mix. 1 or 2 table- 
spoonfuls to a tub. 

SXARGHING AND IRONING 

Starch Polish, for shirt bosoms, collars and cuffs. 1 ounce 
spermaceti, 1 ounce white wax. Melt together and mold in thin 
cakes; drop into the starch a piece the size of a dollar. 

Starch Gloss. — Put in boiling starch, to 1 quart, 1 dessert 
spoonful of white sugar and ^ teaspoonful of- butter. This 
stiffens the articles and gives a glossy finish. Mutton tallow, or 
very pure lard may be used in place of the butter. Starch will 
not polish unless there is something added to it. A small table- 
spoonful of kerosene stirred into a quart of starch, after removing 
30 



466 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

it from the stove, is used by many, or a little dissolved gum arable 
is useful to be added to a quart of boiled starch made in the 
usual manner, gives a beautiful luster to the clothes and prevents 
the iron sticking. 

Chinese Method of Glossing.— For three shirts take 3 
teaspoonfuls of starch, dissolve in 2 tablespoonfuls of cold water, 
pour on 1 pint of boiling water, add a piece of Polish or a bit 
of spermaceti ; cook five minutes. Then take 6 teaspoonfuls dry 
starch, mixed with ^ a large teacup of cold water. Stir this 
.into the hot starch and use at once. Hot starch stiffens much bet- 
ter than cool. Have the articles dry, starch bosoms, cuffs and 
collars thoroughly, rubbing the starch in well, and roll up tight as 
possible. Iron without sprinkling, stretch and smooth the bosom 
in shape very carefully, adjust on the bosom-board, lay a clean 
cloth over it and with a good hot iron rub carefully over the cloth 
until the bosom is damp, not wet, remove this and iron until almost 
dry, and begin to press down for the final polish. It will be im- 
proved by wiping off with a damp cloth and then using a polishing 
iron with as much strength as possible to bring out the final gloss. 
Wipe off just enough to remove the polish left by the common 
iron. To iron a collar lay it flatly down, and if it is a standing 
collar, iron the wrong side first, quickly, to drive out the moisture, 
then polish the right side with the polishing iron. To curve a collar, 
commence in the middle and give it a quick stroke toward one end 
and then to the other, hold it a 'moment in position and it will 
stay so. Turn-over collars are polished flat and turned afterward; 
do not iron the band too close to the outside. Iron cuffs the same 
as standing collars. Lift any plaits in bosoms with a knife. 

Polished white skirts are a luxury, and shams and other arti- 
cles repay the trouble of polishing in their increased beauty and in 
rem lining fresh for a longer period of time. It cannot be done 
without a polishing iron or irons. They cost about fifty cents 
a piece. Always use the starch as hot as possible. 

Boiled Starch to Use. — There are two ways of using this. 
One is to make a boiled starch thick as jelly. Dissolve the starch 
in a little cold water, say 2 tablespoonfuls, pour over this boiling 
w.iter enough to make it thi; rijlit cousisteu'^y, let boil five miuuies; 



HOUSEKEEPING. 467 

blue the starch slightly, if liked, use any of the polishes given, 
then take part of the thick starch into a dish, and thin the remain- 
der with boiling water. Wring the articles out of the thin starch 
first, and then proceed to rub the starch into the collars, cuffs and 
bosoms, lay down on a cloth and rub as much starch as can be 
contained first into one side and then the other. Wipe off the 
superfluous starch with a clean cloth, stretch carefully in shape and 
dry. Instead of sprmkling, roll in a damp cloth wrung out of 
warm water, laying in first a collar and rolling over, then a pair 
of cuffs, etc. Do not let them get very damp. Iron as before 
directed. 

Second. — Starch in moderately thick starch made as above. 
Let dry and starch with a thin cold starch, made with lukewarm 
water in the proportion of 1 teaspoonful to 1 pint of water, 
roll up and iron in fifteen minutes or longer. Wipe off each article . 
with a damp cloth to remove any surplus starch. Eemember that 
boiled starch should be used hot, and that cold starch should always 
be made with tepid water, the starch dissolves better. Some 
housekeepers make cold starch out of soap-suds made of white 
soap, claiming that it will not stick. Soft water, where clear can 
be obtained, is better for starch. A little kerosene put in cold starch 
is also recommended to prevent sticking. 

A bowl of clear water and clean old linen cloth are useful to 
remove any si3ecks or soiling the linen may acquire while being 
ironed. Iron dry and then put all starched articles where the 
direct heat of the stove or sun may fall upon them. They are 
stiffer for drying quickly. Pin the baud of the first collar to- 
gether in front. Coil the others around and put inside. This 
wiU shape them. -Arrange cuffs in the same manner. 

To Smooth Irons that will sometimes stick unaccountably, 
rub over a board sprinkled with fine salt. Then pass over a 
brown paper with bees-wax in its folds, wipe off with a cloth, and 
everything will go smoothly. Irons should be taken off the stove 
when not in use. Continual warmth ruins the temper and pre- 
vents their retaining heat. 

To Keep Starch from Scumming when taken from the fire, 
cover it closely. 



468 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Onm Arabic in Starch. — Dissolve in hot water first. Will 
give a newness to lawns, either black or colored, that nothing else 
can equal. A little is also nice for white muslins. The gum may 
be dissolved and kept for use in a bottle. Solution — 2 ounces to a 
pint of boiling water. Use a tablespoonful to a pint of starch. 

Borax in Starch is used by some. Dissolve a lump in boil- 
ing water and put in cold starch. The whiteness and stiffness 
resulting will be very gratifying. 

Flonr Starch. — Take 2 tablespoonfuls of flour. Make 
smooth with cold water, then turn in boiling water until it is the 
proper consistency, add ^ teaspoonful lard and let boil three or five 
minutes. 

LaAUNDRY it^rms. 

To Wash Lace Curtains. — Wash and starch. (Boil them in 
a soapy water. Do not rub. Rinse twice. Use a wringer or 
squeeze them dry.) Do not iron them out. You may stretch 
sheets on a clean carpet, fasten down, and pin the curtains on this. 
Let dry. They v/ill look like new. 

To Wash Linen or Calico. — Make flour-starch of soft water. 
Thin with cool, soft water and wash the dresses in this withoiit 
soap. Rinse in thin starch-water, turn wrong-side out, and hang 
in the shade to dry. 

To Wash Sateen Dresses use borax water. This method 
will restore the gloss. 

To Wash Soiled Ribbons and Ties. — Rub carefully through 
a solution of ^ teaspoonful of ammonia to one cup of water. If 
much soiled put through a second water with less ammonia. Lay 
between clean white cloths and press until di-y. The effect is 
good. 

Pongee requires no more care in washing than a white gar- 
ment; it will bear hard rubbing if necessary, but it must not be 
boiled or scalded. Treat it about as you would flannel ; let it get 
quite dry, and if you use a quite hot iron, not hot enough to singe, 
of course, all the creases will come out, and the silk will look like 
new. The ironing when wet is the reason of silk handkerchiefs 
becoming yellow, the hot iron turning the moisture into steam. 



HOUSEKEEPING. 469 

Bleaching with Chloride of Lime.— For 5 pounds of un- 
bleached muslin take 1 pound of chloride of lime, over which pour 
boiling water. Let stand and settle. Have ready in a tub warm, 
soft water enough to cover the goods, into which strain through a 
cloth the solution of lime. Stir well, put in the goods, stirring 
them frequently, and let remain from fifteen to thirty minutes. 
Wring out, rinse thoroughly and the process is complete. 

Coffee-starch for Brown Linen and Black Dress Goods.— 
Make as usual, using carefully strained coffee instead of water. It 
gives the proper tint and prevents white scales of starch upon the 
surface. They may also be washed in hay water. Scald hay in 
the water until it is the proper color. 

A Receptacle for Soiled Clothing can be easily made of a 
small barrel. Clean and line with cambric, covering the outside 
with cretonne or Turkey red cotton laid on in plaits. Border the 
top with a ruche of the same. Cover the lid with the same 
material and screw on a small brass knob in the center. This will 
be ornamental in a sleeping-room or corner of upper hallway. 

To Wash Red Table Linen.— Rub carefully in tepid suds, 
using a little borax in the water to set the color; rinse well. It 
must never be ironed, the hot iron fades it more than washing or 
wear. Pull out carefully and stretch in the proper shape before 
putting on the line. Dry in the shade, fold, and if wished put 
under a weight to press. They will retain their color much better 
than by the old method. 

To Wash Colored Handkerchiefs. — Washing and boiling 
does not fade these, but hot irons do. Be very careful. If 
n-oning could be dispensed with they would remain bright much 
longer. 

To Remove Iron Rust. — Lemon juice and salt mixed to- 
gether may be spread upon the spots and the article laid in the sun. 
Repeat the operation if necessary. Starch may be spread upon 
the article instead of salt. A more convenient way is to have salts 
of lemon in a bottle dissolved in water enough to cover, and 
moisten the rusty spots with this. This will not rot the goods. 
When dry wash out in clear water. 

To Remove Fruit Stains. — Dip the injured portion of cloth 



470 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

in a solution of 1 part of chloride of lime to 12 parts of soft 
water. Rub it slightly and then rinse. 

Second. — Pour boiling water through tiie stained parts several 
times. If this does not remove it, cover the wet spot with a paste 
of starch and spread in the sun. Tea stains can be removed in 
the same way. 

To ReniOVO Tar. — Butter or lard will remove spots of tar 
and soap and water will afterward take out the grease stain. This 
process will answer for the hand as well. 

To Remove Ink Stains. — Saturate the spot with spirits of 
turpentine and let it remain several hours ; then rub between the 
hands. It will crumble away without injuring the color or texture 
of the fabric; then wash off with warm water. Fresh stains of 
ink can be taken out by soaking and washing in sweet skim milk, 
renewing it if need be. 

To Remove Ink from Carpets. — Wet the spot with sweet 
milk and sprinkle on salt. Leave for two or three hours and then 
wash with clear water. 

Acid Stains, lemon, etc., can usually be removed by am- 
monia. If the color still fails to return, a touch of chloroform, 
will then restore it in almost all cases. Color that has been 
changed by perspiration can usually be restored by ammonia, 
always on black goods. 

Color Destroyed by White-wash can be restored by being 
immediately washed in strong vinegar. 

To Remove Paint Spots from woolen cloth or broadcloth 
wipe off instantly with a piece of cloth; if a coat, take the lining, 
if nothing else is convenient. The same will apply to silk. If 
these methods fail, apply pure spirits of turpentine. 

Second. — Lay a many-folded sheet on the table and lay the 
stained part of the material on that (silk, cloth or any other goods 
maybe treated in the same manner), and rubbing soap on a tooth- 
brush dip the brush in warm water and wash the paint away, the 
sheet absorbing the water. When the paint is extracted move the 
material to a dry part of the sheet; rinse the brush and with clear 
warm water wash the soap away. Rub with a dry towel both 
sides of the material and hang up to dry. If the paint is lt)ng dry 



HOUSEKEEPING 47T 

ing rub with turpentine and wash with soap and water, or if the 
colors are delicate wash with warm water alone. Chloroform may 
be used instead of turpentine. 

Yellowed Linen that has been laid away can be bleached by 
letting it soak in buttermilk two or three days. 

To Keep White Clothing from turning yellow through the 
winter, wash all the starch out in the fall, rinse in bluing water 
and put away unironed. 

To Prevent Muslin Turning Yellow. — There are some 
kinds of cotton cloth that invariably turn yellow after the first 
washing. If there is any fear of this, soak the garments two 
days before washing in clear water. 

To Remove Mildew. — Wet the spot, soap well and cover 
thickly with finely pulverized chalk or whiting. 

Second. — Soak in sour milk, rinse and lay in the sun. 

TmRD. — Dip in a solution of 1 part of chloride of lime to 12 
parts of soft water, strained; lay in the sun. Repeat if necessary. 
So soon as white rinse thoroughly. 

Washing Blankets. — Put the blankets in hot soap-suds with 
a little borax in the water. Rub lightly. Too much rubbing and 
wringing hardens and shrinks the flannel. Rinse in clear water 
the same temperature as the suds. Run through a wringer and 
hang uj) to dry. 

To Wash Flannels of all kinds pursue the same plan as for 
blankets, though, if necesary, soap may be rubbed upon the soiled 
places. Bring in before fairly dry and roll up for ironing. 

Renovating Black Silk. — Sponge with water containing a 
little ammonia, or sponge with hot coflfee (strained). Sponge on 
the side intended to show. It may be pinned to the carpet and 
dried, or allowed to partially dry before ironing on the wrong 
side. Shiny appearance of worn silk may be removed by spong- 
ing with borax water (1 teaspoonful of the powdered to 1 cupful 
water), or rub off with gasoline. 

Second. — To renovate a black silk, rub each breadth carefully 
with a woolen cloth to free from dust, and then sponge the right 
side with water in which one or two old black kid gloves have 
been boiled (1 quart of water for a pair of gloves). Iron while 



472 THREK MEALS A DAY. 

wet with very hot irons, on the wrong side. This cleanses, stiffens 
and shghtly dyes, and gives quite the appearance of newness. 

Renovating Colored Silks. — The same method may be re- 
sorted to by using kid gloves the exact shade of the dress. For 
this reason old kid gloves should be saved. 

Renovating Black Cashmere. — Wash in warm suds with a 
little borax in the water. Kiuse in bluing water very blue, hang 
up to dry without wringing and iron on the wrong side while quite 
damp. It will look equal to new. Some use soap bark. 

Second. — Sponge with ammonia water until the pieces are 
thoroughly wet. Boll tightly and begin ironing at once. Cover 
the board with soft flannel, lay the right side down and iron dry 
on the wrong side. Brush off any flannel lint that may remain 
on the right side. A strip of old black broad-cloth, four or five 
inches wide, rolled up tightly and sewed in place, is better than a 
sponge for cleansing black and dark colored clothes, as it leaves no 
hnt. 

To Clean Black Lace. — Put in alcohol, churn up and down 
until the liquid foams. If very dusty repeat the operation; squeeze 
them out, clap them between the hands, pull out the edges, lay 
between brown paper, smooth and straight. Leave under a weight 
until dry. 

To Clean White Silk Lace. — Wash and rinse in benzine, 
dry in the open air and press between folds of white paper. Cot- 
ton lace and Crepe Lisse ruches may be washed m benzine. 

Ribbons Washed in the same way will often look very 
nicely. Benzine is very inflammable. 

To Wash White Linen Lace. — Mix 1 teaspoonful powdered 
borax in a basin of strong white Castile or other fine soap-suds. 
Baste the lace very carefully upon two thicknesses of white flan- 
nel, catching all the points down. Let soak in this suds twenty- 
four hours, or longer if very much soiled. Then let lie in clear 
water for two or three hours, changing once. In the last water 
dissolve a little pulverized sugar (this will stiffen slightly). Squeeze 
out, do not wring, place the flannel, lace down, on two thicknesses 
of dry flannel and smooth with a hot iron. When quite dry rip 
the lace off. The result is perfect. 



HOUSEKEEPING. 473 

Second. — Put the lace away in a box with equal parts of mag- 
nesia and powdered French chalk sprinkled liberally in its folds. 
Lace dealers keep fine lace in this preparation while awaiting sale. 

To Restore Old Crape. — A piece of glue dissolved in skim 
milk and water is said to be very effective in restoring old crape. 
Use very hot and clap dry. 

To Restore Velvet. — Heat a flat-iron, turn it upside down, 
put a wet cloth over it, lay upon this the wrong side of the velvet, 
then, if necessary, rub up the nap rapidly. Ordinarily, the steam 
alone wHl do this. 

Lisle Thread Gloves and Hose should be dried upon frames 
to prevent shrinkage. Put the gloves upon the hands. 

To Wash Swans-down. — Kub it gently in soap-suds, and 
when dry it will shake out perfectly fresh. 

To Wash Fancy Hose. — It is an excellent plan to wash all 
such hose before wearing, in a weak solution of salt and water, 
with about a teaspoonful of sugar of lead. Rinse thoroughly 
afterward. Run through a wringer twice, the last time folded in a 
towel, to remove all the moisture, then turn wrong side out to 
dry. This will prevent the color from running on the right 
side. Dry immediately before a fire, as a long cold drying is sure 
to make the colors run. Pin them up to dry. Do not lay them over 
anything. To wash, prepare a clean suds of soap and warm water. 
Wash, rinse in clear water, and, if the articles are bright colored, 
throw in a little salt to prevent the colors running. Wring out 
and dry as above directed. 

Black Hose should be washed as above, wringing in the 
same way, then rolled in a cloth and kept from the air while drying. 

Bordered 'J'owels should be treated the same as fancy hose, 
to set the color the first time, and then washed like red table linen. 

To Wash Silk Knit Underwear and Hose. — Wash by hand 
in cool suds of fine castile, or toilet soap, rub very little; press dry 
in a cloth. Rinse twice; once in clear cold water, again in water 
tinctured with cream of tartar, or vinegar or alum. Dry quickly, 
first stretching in shape. Do not iron, press under a heavy book. 
If the article is black, add a Httle ammonia, instead of acid to the 
rinsing water. 



474 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

To Set Colors in Wash Goods. — Blue: — Put 1 ounce of 
sugar of lead in a pail of water, soak the material in the solution 
two hours, wring out and dry before washing and ironing. This 
will answer for all shades of blue. 

Buff or Gray Linen. — A teaspoonful of black pepper stirred 
into water in which these are washed will prevent spotting. See 
also Coffee Starch, and to Wash Linen or Calico. 

Black wash goods. A teacupful of lye in a pail of water is 
said to improve the color of black goods. 

Pink or Green. — Vinegar in the rinsing water will brighten 
these colors, also good for purple and blue. To set green soak in 
alum water before washing. See that the alum is dissolved. 
Before washing almost any colored fabrics, it is recommended to 
soak them some time in water, to every gallon of which is added a 
spoonful of ox-gall. In washing use a strong milk-warm lather of 
white bar soap, and put the garments into it, instead of rubbing 
soap on the material. Kinse twice, putting a large tablespoonful 
of ox-gall in each water. 

To Clean Kid Gloves.— Kid gloves that have been dyed 
cannot be cleaned ; the only remedy is re-dyeing. Benzine or naptha 
is excellent for cleaning gloves, but is too strong for delicate colors. 
Stretch them on the hand and apply any cleansing compound, rub 
always in the same direction, using a bit of sponge or soft flannel. 
Delicate colors may be cleaned with a sponge dipped in milk and 
rubbed lightly over white soap; the oily nature of the milk softens 
the kid. 

Black Kids may be renewed by touching all the whitened por- 
tions with a mixture of two parts of black ink to 1 part of sweet 
oil. Keej) this in a bottle with a sponge attached to the cork same 
as the "liquid blacking," which, in an emergency, may be used on 
gloves also. The ink and sweet oil forms an excellent polish for 
ladies' and children's kid boots. A crumb of stale bread rubbed 
over any kind of gloves will often clean them nicely. 

Dyeing Gloves Black. — Put a large handful of logwood chips 
into a bowl and cover with alcohol, let stand until it looks strong, 
at least one whole day. Eub all over carefully with a bit of sponge 



HOUSEKEEPING. 475 

or flannel, have the glove on the hand, then let dry. Repeat the 
operation and the glove will be black. 

Stained Bed-ticking naay be renovated by applying a paste 
of raw starch and water to the stained portions and allowing to 
dry on. 

Ironing Boards (which no one should be without) may be 
protected from dust by taking two paper flour sacks, cutting the bot- 
tom from one and pasting on the top of the other to form the 
required length. Slip this over the board when putting away. 

Holders. — A piece of burlap of convenient size is nice for 
handling hot pans and kettles with. For ironing holders fold 
pieces of knit underwear into convenient size and thickness, run 
together, slip inside the blanket on ironing board to have ready 
and clean. The tops of worn-out leather shoes, cut in shape and 
covered, are nice for ironing to keep heat from the hands. Make 
the cover so it can be removed for washing. 

To Keep Tubs turn over and pour water on the bottom, 
unless there is a good cellar where they may be kept. 

Clothes for Boiling are very much nicer, put in a large bag 
made of sheeting or muslin, there will then be no danger from 
iron rust. 

DYRS. 

Black Silk, Cotton, Lace or Wool Goods.— For 4 pounds 
of goods take 2 ounces of blue vitriol and 8 ounces of extract of 
logwood, or if preferred 3 pounds of logwood chips. Put each 
separately in 12 quarts of water. Put the vitriol water in a brass 
kettle if possible. Bring both kettles to the boiling point. Have 
the cloth thoroughly washed out in warm water; dip first in the 
vitriol w'ater, then in the logwood water, and alternately from one 
to the other until it has been dipped in each three times. Dry, 
wash in strong suds, rinse in soft water twice that it may not 
"crock." Put a little salt in the last water. Wring out, roll up 
and leave an hour or so before pressing; press on the wrong side 
until perfectly dry. A small piece of copperas is good to add to 
the logwood water. This will not fade and answers for all materi- 
a's but best for woollen goods. 



476 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Brown Cotton, Woolen or Silk.— Wash the goods first in 

strong soap-suds, rinse well, then follow directions. For 5 pounds 
of cloth or yarn take 1 pound of gum catechu, 3 ounces of blue 
vitriol, and 4 ounces of bi-chromate of potash. Dissolve catechu 
and blue vitriol in sufficient soft water to cover the goods, bring to 
a scalding heat. Wring the goods out of clear hot water, shake 
out, put in the catechu and vitriol bath. Let them remain three 
hours, stirring and airing quite often. Dissolve the bi-chromate 
of potash in enough warm water to cover the goods; lift from the 
catechu dye and put in the potash dye, scald until the desired color. 
Put them in all at once, but do not crowd them. Stir frequently, 
fifteen minutes is usually enough. Einse in clear, warm water; 
dry in the shade; use brass, copper or porcelain kettles, but not 
iron. 

Blue for Cotton. — A lasting and beautiful color. Dissolve 
5 ounces of copperas in water sufficient to cover the goods. When 
it reaches scalding point put the goods in and scald one-half hour; 
take out and air; put clean water in the kettle, enough to cover the 
goods, together with 6 ounces of prussiate of potash. Put in the 
goods thirty minutes. Kemove and add to the kettle 2 ounces of 
oil of vitriol, return the goods and let remain twenty minutes or 
longer if the color is to be dark. This will color 5 pounds of cloth. 

Green for Cotton. — First color the goods blue, then take 4 
ounces sugar of lead and 2 ounces bi-chromate of potash and dis- 
solve each separately in ^ pailful of water. Dip the goods from 
one to the other until the desired shade is obtained. This will 
color 5 pounds of goods. Or dye blue first and dip in the yellow 
dye. 

Yellow for Cotton. — For 5 pounds of goods dissolve f poimd 
of sugar of lead in hot water. Dissolve ^ pound of bi-chromate 
of potash. Dip in the lead dye, then in the potash until the desired 
shade is obtained. 

Orange for Cotton.— Dye the goods yellow and dip in a 
very strong boiling lime water. Wring out and dip in clear, hot 
rain water. 

Madder Red, — This is a good durable, but not brilliant, red. 
For 6 or 7 pounds of goods. 6 giHons of water, ^ pound of mad- 



HOUSEKEEPING. 477 

der, 3 ounces of alum, 1 ounce of cream-tartar. Heat half the 
water scalding hot in a brass, copper or porcelain kettle and dis- 
solve in it the alum and cream-tartar. When it boils put in the 
goods and boil two hours, then rinse. Empty the kettle, break the 
the madder small and add to the other three gallons of water. Put 
in the goods and keep scalding hot one hour, stirring pretty con- 
stantly; then increase the fire until they boil five minutes. Drain 
and rinse in clear water without wringing. Wash in suds and dry 
in the shade. 

Cochilieal. — Take for each pound of goods 2^ ounces of alum, 
1^ ounces white tartar, put in a brass or porcelain kettle, not iron, 
with sufficient water to cover the goods. Let boil briskly several min- 
utes then put in the goods, which should have been washed clean, and 
rinsed in clear water. When the goods have boiled one-half hour 
take out, without wringing, and hang where they will all cool 
alike, without drjnng. Empty out the alum and tartar water, put 
in fresh for each pound of goods to be dyed, add an ounce of finely 
powdered cochineal. Let this boil fifteen minutes, add sufficient 
cold water to make lukewarm and to just cover the goods as. before. 
Boil one and one-fourth hours. Remove the goods without wring- 
ing and dry in the shade. 

Orange and Salmon. — Take as much strong soft soap-suds 
(plain bar soap will do), as will cover the quantity of goods. Tie 
a quantity of annotto in a bag and soak in the suds until it is soft, 
so that enough can be squeezed out to make the suds a deep yellow. 
Put in the articles, which should be clean and bleached free from 
color. Boil until the shade wished. See that the goods are well 
covered with dye. This dye will make a salmon or orange color, 
according to the strength or the length of time the goods are kept 
in. Drain out of the dye, dry quickly in the shade, then wash in 
soap-suds. Do not rinse. 

Straw or Lemon Color.— Fustic or saffron make a good 
straw or lemon color, according to the strength of the dye. Steep 
in soft water in an earthen or tin vessel, strain and set the dye 
with alum. To stiffen the goods, dissolve a little gum-arabic in 
the dye. When it is strained steep the goods in it. 

Slate Colored Dje. — Tea grounds set with copperas makes 



478 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

a good slate color. Strain, boil the goods in this and hang up to 
drain and dry 

To Bleach Goods for Dyeiug.— Where it is necessary to 
remove the color in an article before dying, wash in hot soap-suds 
or boil in soap-suds until faded. Einse thoroughly; any soap left 
in will ruin the dye. Goods for dyeing should be clean and free 
from grease. 

Scarlet for Wool (Very Fine). — For 1 pound of goods, take 
^ ounce cream-tartar, ^ ounce well pulverized cochineal, 2^ ounces 
muriate of tin. Boil up the dye and enter the goods. Work them 
briskly ten or fifteen minutes, then boil one and one-half hours, 
stirring the goods slowly while boiling. Wash in clear water and 
dry in the shade. 

Blue for Wool (Quick Process). — For 2 pounds goods, 5 
ounces alum, 3 ounces cream-tartar. Boil goods in this one hour, 
then put them into warm water that has more or less extract of 
indigo in it, according to depth of color desired and boil again until 
the tint suit, adding more indigo if needed. 

Sky Blue (on Silk or Cotton). — Give the goods as much 
color from a solution of blue vitriol, 2 ounces to 1 gallon water, 
by dipping fifteen minutes. Then run it through lime-water. This 
will make a beautiful and durable sky blue. 

General Remarks-— Everything should be clean. The 
goods should be scoured in soap and the soap rinsed out. Dip 
tk3m into water just before putting them into preparations, to pre- 
vent spotting. Soft water should be used, mfjicient to cover the 
goods well — this is always understood ivhere quantitijis not mentioned. 
When goods are dyed, air, rinse well, and hang up to dry. Do not 
wring silk or merino dresses when scouring or dyeing them. If 
cotton goods are to be dyed a light color they should first be 
bleached. 




IJSY^LflB 




BOB the patient, sick and weary with suffering, food should 
be prepared with the utmost care, and served in the 
daintiest manner. 

Convalescence depends much upon the appetite and proper 
food. 

Fevers require that the patient's strength be kept up; at the 
same time, everything that quickens circulation should be avoided. 
Milk diet is largely resorted to in such cases. 

On giving an invalid a drink of water when the draught must 
be limited, hand him a small glass full. This will satisfy his 
thirst. Never offer a goblet of water in such a case and direct 
how many swallows may be taken. 

Beef tea or broth should be cooled and the fat carefully re- 
moved before given to an invalid. If there is great haste the fat 
may be very nearly removed by absorbing it with blotting paper. 
This will not necessitate the cooling of the liquid. 

Dishes should be heated if the food is to be served hot, and 
kept cold if to be served cold. Custards should be set in ice or in 
pans of cold water. 

Never leave food standing by a patient with the hope that an 
appetite may be aroused by its presence. Eemove at once and 
return after an interval in a fresh and attractive manner. 

Have all napkins and towels fresh and clean, and plenty of 
them to shield bedding and clothing. Spread the tray with a 
fresh napkin and have the china and silver bright and attractive. 

Never fill a cup of tea or coffee more than two-thirds full^ 
then there will be no danger of its contents running over into tb9 
saucer. 

(479) 



480 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Gruel may be served in a china cup with a handle, using a 
saucer if liked, or in a glass. 

A TIN DISH with a long handle, made so as to fit inside the tea- 
kettle, will be found a great convenience when there is sickness in 
the family. With such a dish at hand, gruel, custard and bee^-tea 
may be prepared without danger of scorching. 

Cream forms the most perfect combination of fat and flesh- 
forming food that exists, being both fatty and albuminous in its 
character. 

Wine will be found admitted in no other department of this 
book, and is to be used here only under the instructions of a 
physician. 

Apple Water. — Pare and slice a fine juicy apple. Pour one 
large cupful of boiling water over it. Cover and let stand until 
cold. Or roast 2 nice tart apples ; do not burn. Cut them up and 
pour over them 1 pint of boiling water. Let cool. Either of 
these will be found a refreshing drink. They may be sweetened 
slightly if liked, and a couple of cloves may be added. This is 
an excellent drink for a feverish cold and is especially relished by 
children. 

Barley Water. — Most excellent for fevers. To | pound of 
barley allow 1 quart of water. (Pearl barley is the best, but com- 
mon barley can be used.) Add 2 dozen of stoned raisins or a few 
chopped figs. Let boil slowly until reduced one-half. Strain and 
cool, after which the liquor is ready for use. A very little sugar 
and some lemon -peel may be used in place of the raisins, but the 
raisins are more nutritious. A little milk may be added if desira- 
ble, or a tablespoonful of sherry wine. If the raisins are not 
liked the barley water may be made plain and strained over 2 
tablespoonfuls of currant jelly. This gives a pleasant acid. 

Tamarind Water. — Over 1 glass tumbler of tamarinds pour 
1 pint of cold water. Let stand one hour before using, then strain. 

Currant Jelly Water. — Currant, cranberry or gooseberry 
jelly can be prepared in same manner as tamarinds. 

Toast Water. — 2 slices of stale bread toasted carefully, a 
perfect brown. Cut in squares and pour over them 1 pint of boil- 
ing water. Stimulants may be added according to the advice of 



INVALID COOKERY. 48 1 

the physician. A bit of orange or lemon -peel added gives a pleas 
ant flavor. 

Lemon Whey. — Pour into l cupful of boiling hot milk as 
much lemon juice as will make it quite clear. Add enough hot 
water to make it a pleasant acid and sweeten to taste. Strain and 
drink before going to bed. This is recommended to excite perspira- 
tion after a chill, and is less heating than the white wine whey so 
often given for that purpose. 

Wine Whey. — Boil 1 pint of milk. Pour into it ^ cupful of 
sour wine. Let it come to a boil again. Take from the fire, let 
stand a few minutes without stirring until the curd settles. Pour 
off the whey and sweeten to taste with white sugar. 

Buttermilk Whey. — Boil the required quantity of fresh but- 
termilk. Season with a pinch of salt, a little loaf sugar, and nut- 
meg if liked. Pour the whey off carefully. 

Rennet Whey. — l pint^ of scalding milk, not boiling; 1 
tablespoonful prepared rennent or a piece of rennet skin that has 
been soaked in water. Sweeten to taste and strain. It will be 
ready for use when cool. 

Egg Milk. — Beat a fresh egg until very light. Stir into a 
glass of new milk. Sweeten to taste and flavor with either nut- 
meg or lemon. Very strengthening. 

Mulled Buttermilk. — Boil 1 pint of buttermilk; thicken 
it with 1 tablespoonful flour rubbed smooth in a little cold butter- 
milk. Stir constantly. Add before removing from the fire a 
dozen or so of raisins for the flavor. Sweeten slightly. Pour 
over small pieces of toast, if the patient wishes. 

Mulled Buttermilk, (II). — Boil 1 pint of buttermilk; beat 
up ^ an egg and stir in. Boil a minute or so, stirring constantly. 
Throw in a few raisins. Sweeten if wanted. 

Crust Coffee. — Brown crusts of wheat bread or Graham bis- 
cuits in the oven until thoroughly toasted through, but not burned. 
Break in pieces and pour boiling water over them. Let steep and 
serve as ordinary coffee with cream and sugar. Very wholesome 
for dyspeptics. 

Egg Lemonade. — Beat the white of one egg to a froth ; add 
to it the juice of 1 lemon. Sweeten, not too sweet, and pour over 

31 



482 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

it 1 pint of water. A very pleasant drink in malarial fevers, sum- 
mer diseases and lung troubles. 

Flaxseed Lemonade. — 2 heaping tablespoonfuls of whole 
flaxseed to 1 quart of boiling water. Let stand until it thickens, 
then straiu over the juice of 1 lemon and sweeten to taste. Very 
good for colds. A little powdered gum-arabic may be added while 
it is still hot. 

Milk Lemonade. — 1^ cupfuls of white sugar dissolved in one 
quart of boiling water. Add ^ pint of lemon juice, and lastly 1^ 
pints of boiling milk. Drink hot as possible just before retiring. 
Good for colds. Under some circumstances ^ of a pint of the 
milk may be omitted and | pint of sherry added. If the patient 
is reduced in strength this will be an improvement. 

Hot Lemonade. — Make the same as cold lemonade, using 
boiling hot water in place of cold water. In case of a severe 
cold drink warm as possible just before retiring. 

Egg Wine. — Beat up a fresh egg until smooth and thick; add 
a teaspoonful of powdered loaf sugar ; stir in a glass of best port 
wine. This, when permitted, is very strengthening. 

Egg Nog. — Beat the yolk of an egg in a tumbler with 2 
teaspoonfuls brandy and the same of sugar measured even. Beat 
the white of the egg to a stiff froth, mix thoroughly with the yolk 
and fill the glass with milk. Some patients cannot take egg and 
must have brandy and milk alone. Others take brandy and egg 
without milk, while the larger number take egg and milk alone. 

Egg Cream. — Beat a raw egg to a stiff froth, add 1 table- 
spoonful white sugar and ^ glassful of home-made blackberry or 
black cherry wine; beat well, add ^ glassful of cream, beat thor- 
oughly and use at once. This is a full meal for an invalid, and is 
particularly good when trouble of mouth, throat or stomach pre- 
vents use of solid food. 

Water Gruel. — Mix 2 tablespoonfuls Indian meal and 1 of 
wheat flour, with enough cold water to make smooth. Indian meal 
alone may be used if preferred. If the gruel is liked thick, stir 
this mixture into 1 pint of boiling water. If wished thinner more 
water will be necessary. Season the gruel with salt and let boil 
six or eight minutes, stirring frequently; take from the fire, put in 



INVALID COOKERY. 483 

a piece of butter the size of a walnut, add sugar and nutmeg, if 
wished, and turn over toasted bread cut in dice. A couple dozen 
of raisins boiled in the gruel will improve the flavor. They need 
not be eaten. Very nice for a cold. 

Caudle. — Make a water gruel as above, or a Rice Caudle, 
Strain it and add a wiueglassful of wine or brandy, sweeten with 
loaf sugar and grate in a little nutmeg. 

Rice Caudle. — This is an excellent remedy where a sudden 
change has brought on a relaxed condition of the system. 

Soak some rice for an hour in cold water, drain it; put 2 
tablespoonfuls of the rice into 1 pint or more of new milk. Sim- 
mer until it will pulp through a sieve. Put pulp and milk in a 
saucepan with a Jbruised clove, a bit of stick cinnamon and loaf 
sugar to taste. Simmer eleven minutes longer. If too thick add 
a little milk. Serve with exceedingly thin strips of dry toast. 

Milk Porridge. — This can be varied so that an mvalid will 
not weary of it quickly. Put 1 dozen raisins in 2 cupfuls of milk 
(they need not be eaten, but flavor the porridge). Boil the milk 
five minutes, then thicken lightly with wheat flour. If the patient 
is quite ill very little thickening is required. Wet the flour 
smoothly with a little cold milk and pour into the boiling milk. 
Add a bit of butter. Nutmeg and sugar will please some palates, 
while others will not tolerate them, or even the raisin flavor. 

Milk Porridge (II). — Make porridge as above, remove from 
the fire and stir in quickly the stiffly beaten white of an egg. Very 
nice. 

Milk Gruel. — 1 tablespoonful of Indian meal and 1 of wheat 
flour, rubbed smooth in a little cold milk or water. Pour into 1 
quart of boiling milk. Boil ten minutes, season to the taste with 
butter and salt. Very soothing for a cold. 

Boiled Flour Gniel. — Tie a teacupful of flour closely in a 
cotton cloth. Boil six hours. When cool untie and let it dry in a 
moderate oven. If the outer part remains soft remove carefully. 
When wanted for use grate 2 tablespoonfuls of it and rub smooth 
with a little cold milk. Stir it into 1 pint of boiling milk, cook 
five minutes, season with salt and sugar to taste. Very good for 
children and infants in summer diseases; also for older invalids. 



484 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Oatmeal Gruel (Milk). — Mix 2 tablespoonfuls fine fresh 
oatmeal with a pinch of salt and a little cold milk. Pour into it 
gradually ^ pint more milk. Set over the fire in an earthen dish 
or a lined saucepan and stir without intermission. When it boils 
pour in i cupful more milk and boil twenty minutes. Serve plain 
or, if approved, with a seasoning of loaf sugar and nutmeg or 
cinnamon. 

Gruel is a soothing remedy for a bad cold. 

Oatmeal Gruel (Water). — 2 cupfuls Irish or Scotch oatmeal, 
2 quarts of water, 1 teaspoonful salt. Let the oatmeal soak over 
night in half the water, rub through a sieve, add the rest of the 
water with a pinch of salt, boil until it thickens. Let cool to a 
jelly. Serve with a little powdered sugar. Cream may be added 
if permitted. 

Rice Gruel. — Mix 2 tablespoonfuls ground rice, smooth with 
cold water, stir it into 1 pint of boiling milk, boil until thick as 
good cream, season with a very little butter and salt. Sugar and 
nutmeg may be used according to taste. Serve hot. 

Arrowroot Gruel. — Make same as Kice Gruel, taking 1 ounce 
to 1 pint of milk, together with 1 teaspoonful sugar and a pinch 
of salt. 

Arrowroot Jelly. — Wet 2 heaping teaspoonfuls of Bermuda 
arrowroot, stir into 1 cupful of boiling water in which 2 teaspoon- 
fuls white sugar have been dissolved. If bits of lemon peel have 
been boiled in the water before hand it is an improvement. Stir 
until clear, boiling steadily. Wet a cup in cold water and pour in 
the jelly to stiffen. Serve cold with sugar and cream if the state 
of the patient permit; otherwise, serve plain. Milk may be used 
instead of water, to the great improvement of the dish. Boil the 
jelly until it thickens well. 

Arrowroot Blanc-mange. — Make same as above, using milk 
instead of water, and taking 1 additional teaspoonful of arrow- 
root. Delicious. Flavor to suit. 

Tapioca Jelly. — Soak 2 ounces of tapioca five hours, or over 
night in ^ pint of cold water, put over the fire with another ^ pint 
of cold water, and when quite thick add ^ tumbler of boiling 
water, boil until the pieces look perfectly clear, then add 2 table- 



INVALID COOKERY. 485 

spoonfuls sugar and flavor (if the physician recommend) with 2 
tablespoonfuls of wine, or 2 teaspoonfuls of brandy; otherwise, 
use lemon, boiling the peel of a lemon in the tapioca and remov- 
ing; add a few drops of the juice. Lemon extract may be used 
instead. Pour in molds and set on ice or in a pan of cold water. 
Serve with cream and sugar, if the state of the patient will per- 
mit, otherwise plain. 

Sago Jelly. — Wash 1 large tablespoonful of sago, soak one 
hour, boil it in i- cupful of water; with a pinch of salt, and a stick 
cinnamon until the grains grow clear; rind of lemon may be sub- 
stituted for the cinnamon. Then add 1 pint of boiling milk, or 
milk and water, boil all together, sweeten and set away to cool. 

Sago Pudding. — Wash a teacupful of sago, put in the pud- 
ding-dish and pour on 1 quart of boiling water, stirring all the 
time ; add a pinch of salt and 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. Prepare 
it two or three hours before baking, or even over night. Bake 
slowly one hour. Serve with sugar and butter. This will answer 
for convalescents. 

Cairs Foot Jelly. — See Jelly, i- cupful of Madeira wine 
may be added when it is especially for invalids. For recipe, see 
page 342. 

Cracker Soup. — Put a bit of butter, the size of a hickory- 
nut, in a bowl, sprinkle in pepper and salt enough to make it pal- 
atable; break in crackers as for oyster soup, and turn on boiling 
water until the dish is filled. This is a substitute for oyster soup, 
and is a very nice dish. Use as much pepper as possible, if the 
disease is a sore throat. A person in perfect health will relish 
this dish. 

Bread Panada. — Put 1 ounce of stale bread, cut or crumbed, 
in a bowl. Pour over it i pint of boiling water, let stand an hour, 
sweeten slightly with white sugar. Wine and nutmeg to taste 
may be added under the advice of a physician. 

Crackers may be used instead of bread, or the bread may be 
toasted. 

Chicken Jelly. — Cut ^ an uncooked chicken in small pieces 
and break the bones. Pour over it 1 quart of water and boil 
slowly until it is reduced to less than half. Season with salt, a 



486 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

little pepper and mace (if the latter be allowed). Strain through 
a jelly-bag into a mold. When the jelly has hardened, scrape off 
the layer of fat at the top, turn it upon a fancy dish. If the taste 
of the patient will permit, it may be sweetened with loaf sugar, 
and flavored with lemon juice. 

Cracker Dessert. — Put 8 soda or 10 milk crackers into a 
deep dish and pour on boiling water to cover. Let stand until the 
water is absorbed, grate over them nutmeg and white sugar, add- 
ing sufficient milk to make a nice sauce. 

Cracker and Orange Juice. — This is the most refreshing 
and cooling nutriment that can be given a fever patient. Crumb 
crackers into a dish and turn orange juice over them. 

Beef Tea. — l pound of lean beef (not one scrap of fat must 
be admitted) cut in small bits and put in a wide-mouthed bottle 
without water; cork closely, set in a kettle of cold water, bring to 
a boil and keep boiling for three or four hours, until the meat in 
the bottle is like white rags. Press out the juice and season with 
a little salt and, if permitted, a suspicion of pepper. This is pure. 

One way to beguile an invalid into taking more beef tea than 
he is willing to, is to add gelatine to it and let it cool in a mold. 
When it is hard and like jelly serve it with salt and wafers. 

Beef Tea (Quick). — Cut the beef (without fat) in inch bits, 
put in an open saucepan over the fire, with very little water, not 
nearly enough to cover it. Take an iron spoon and press contin- 
ually against the side of the pan until every particle of the juice 
is pressed out, and the meat is white and leathery. Remove the 
meat, and, if the broth must be very clear, strain. Season as 
above. Can be prepared in fifteen minutes. 

Beef-steak Tea. — Broil 1 pound of tender, juicy beef-steak 
for two minutes, season it with salt and pepper, cut in small 
pieces, pour over it 1 pint of boiling water, steep one half hour, 
then press well and pour off the liquid. 

Raw Beef Sandwich.— Scrape, or chop fine, a little raw beef 
from a tender piece, season with pepper and salt, spread on a thin 
slice of thinly buttered bread, cover with another and cut in three 
or four pieces. Very nice and nutritious. 

Cliickeu Broth. — Boil au ordinary sized chicken in 2 quarts 



INVALID COOKERY. 487 

of water, cracking the bones before putting in the fowl, (the water 
must be cold at first.) Cover and boil until the meat is ready to 
fall to pieces. Strain; let simmer, adding 4 or 5 tablespoonfuls 
of milk, and a little salt and pepper. A tablespoonful of well 
soaked rice, or pearl barley, may be added also; boil slowly one-half 
hour if this is done ; serve with dry toast. The meat of the chicken 
will make a very nice chicken salad for the family. 

Sago Soup. — Wash 5 ounces of sago in warm water, set in a 
saucepan with 2 quarts of milk, and simmer until the sago is thor- 
oughly dissolved; season with pepper and salt, and add a small 
cupful of cream before serving. ^ Good clear stock is generally 
used for sago and tapioca soup ; but they are even nicer made with 
milk. 

Broiled Chicken or QuaD.— Broil the breast only, on both 
sides. Season lightly with pepper, salt and butter. 

Beef Feet. — Put the feet over in cold water and let them come 
to a boil. Take out and remove the loosened hoofs. Soak over 
night in cold water, boil until tender. Chop fine; season with 
pepper, salt, butter and a little cream. Heat well through before 
serving. A very weak stomach can retain this. Be sure not to 
boil until gluey. 

Codfish Relish. — Sliver some codfish fine, put in cold water, 
let come slowly to a boil to freshen it. Boil a moment, turn o£f 
the water and add hot cream, seasoned lightly with peppei if 
allowable, or rich milk in which a small lump of butter has been 
dissolved. Split and toast a Boston cracker, or a half slice of 
baker's bread from which the crust has been removed, and turn the 
codfish over this. 

Fruit. — Invalids will find it safer to take raw fruit about the 
middle of a meal, other dishes proceeding and following it. Cooked 
fruit may be taken at any period of the meal. 

Scrambled Eggs for Invalids.— For 1 egg allow 3 table- 
spoonfuls boiling water, a little salt and a bit of butter the size of 
a hazel-nut. Stir rapidly from the moment the egg is dropped into 
the water until the mixture is of the consistency of cold, thick 
cream, but do not allow it to whey. Have ready slices of moist 
buttered toast, put the eggs on the toast and serve. This will not 



48^ THREE MEALS A DAY. 

be found too rich for an invalid's stomach, and nice for the family 
as well. 

Paulet a la Creme. — Boil a chicken, chop the flesh to a fine 
powder, rub through a wire sieve; mix with a little cream and 2 or 
3 beaten eggs. Season with salt and a little pepper if allowable. 
Put in a mold, press down, steam and serve, cut in slices hot or 
cold. A dainty dish for an invalid. 

Buttermilk. — The virtues of buttermilk are claimed to be 
manifold. Among other advantages it possesses a large share of 
the acid which destroys the incrustations that form on the arteries, 
cartilages and valves of the heart, and it is asserted that a constant 
use of it would free the system from troubles which inevitably 
cause death between the 75th and 100th years of man's Ufe. It 
may be used freely and to advantage by every one. 

Another point in its favor; — in churning, the first process of 
digestion is gone through with, making it one of the easiest and 
quickest of all things to digest. It makes gastric juice, and con- 
tains properties that readily assimilate with the digestive organs. 

Blackberry Cordial. — To i bushel of blackberries, well 
mashed, add ^ pound of allspice, 2 ounces of cinnamon and 2 
ounces of cloves, all ground. Mix and boil slowly until properly 
done. Strain, or squeeze the juice through flannel, and add to each 
pint 1 pound of loaf sugar. Boil once more, slowly, for one half 
hour. Eemove from the stove, and while cooling add 1 quart of 
the best brandy. Some take 2 quarts of brandy to this amount of 
cordial. Cognac is the best. This is an almost infallible specific 
for all summer diseases. 

Dose. — For an adult, 1 wineglassful ; for a child, 1 teaspoon- 
ful, or more, according to age. 




MEMh^^M. 



eMEEGENCIES will occur in every family, and no house 
should be without appliances necessary in case of accidents 
or sudden illness, and not only that, but these appliances 
should be kept together, and in some convenient box, or drawer, 
where they will be readily accessible to every member of the family. 
Among these articles should be included all or part of the following •. 
Camphor. Vaseline. 

Soothing Ointment. Painkiller. 

Arnica. Lime and Sweet Oil for Bums. 

Cotton batting. Court plaster. 

Bandages, cut and rolled, of different widths. 
Eoll of old flannel for hot applications. 
Adhesive Plasters. Made Mustard Plaster. 

Bits of old Linen. 
A pair of sharp scissors. 
Such conveniences may save life, and will save a great deal of 
confusion and fright. 

There are other articles tnat could be added with propriety. 
One of these is a couple of flannel bags filled with hops, ready for 
use. 

Hot Applications. — The best way of applying these is to 
steam them first. This is a much better way than to scald and 
stain the hands by wringing out of hot water. Where a simple 
hot application is to be made, wring a cloth out of warm water. 
Apply, and lay over this a heated plate, or better still, a hot stove 
lid rolled in a cloth. This is a very convenient method and will 
not require to be changed as frequently, one application in mild 
cases being all that is necessary. It will be found that sand-baga 
are useful, in this way, and for foot- warmers also. Make of 

(■i89J 



490 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

flannel that the sand may not sift through. Have a cotton outside 
case for washing. Heat in the oven. India rubber water bottles 
partially filled may be used also. 

The Sick Room. — Insist upon the most perfect cleanliness, 
and secure as far as possible a supply of pure air. Ventilate the 
room at least once a day. 

Carry the bed-clothing into the open air, if dry weather, if 
not into another room. If the patient is unable to sit up, in the 
meanwhile, let others be supplied. 

Keep the room quiet and in perfect order. 

Address the patient gently, and any conversation that may be 
allowed, be pleasant and cheering in tone. 

Never tell discouraging stories. 

Never whisper in the room. 

All vials and powders should be labeled to prevent mistakes. 

Daily sponge baths should be made use of where the case 
admits. Change the garments frequently and rinse the mouth 
often. 

A pleasant and agreeable nurse should always be chosen. 

Never dispute with a very sick person, nor reprove him for 
any inconsistency. Kemember he is not a responsible being. 

Contagious diseases need still greater precautions. Small pox, 
scarlet fever and diptheria particularly. Kemove the- patient to a 
separate apartment, as near the top of the house as possible, from 
which remove curtains, carpets, bed-hangings, all woolen articles, 
and other needless articles. Wooden chairs, a table, a plain single 
bed and a lounge for the convenience of the nurse, are all the 
needful articles. Afterward everything that is not disinfected 
should be burned. No one should be admitted to the room except 
the medical attendant and nurse. 

Chloride of lime and other disinfectants should be plentifully 
used, and a little chloride of lime solution should be put in the 
water that the nurse uses for bathing her hands. Einse in pure 
water. 

Disinfectants. — Coffee roasted, ground and sprinkled on live 
coals or a hot shovel is one of the best known disinfectants, re- 
moving instantly all manner of animal and vegetable effluvia. 



HEALTH. 491 

Simply putting the ground roasted coffee on plates, in rooms to 
be disinfected is very successfiU, and sprinkling in drains or sinks. 

Second. — Onions sliced and put in a sick-room where there is 
any contagious disease are a valuable antiseptic. Replace every 
hour with a fresh one, burning the old. It is astonishing the 
rapidity with which one will shrivel away. 

It has been repeatedly observed that an onion-patch in the im- 
mediate vicinity of a house acts as a shield against pestilence, but 
during an epidemic a confirmed eater should, however, eschew his 
usual diet, as the germs of the disease are present in the onions 
and contagion may easily result. 

Outside the door of the sick-room suspend a sheet so as to 
cover the entire doorway. This should be kept constantly wet 
with a solution of chloride of lime. This will keep every other 
part of the house free from infection. 

To Cool a Sick-room when oppressively warm, hang wet 
towels or canvas in windows and doors. This will speedily lower 
the temperature five or six degrees, besides lendering the air moist 
and agreeable. Charcoal is an invaluable antissptic used in sick- 
rooms or crowded sleeping rooms. A dozen pieces the size of 
hazel-nuts placed m a saucer and daily moistened with boiling 
•water, wiU, in the course of a week, have gathered their own 
weight in impurities, when they should be burned and fresh 
taken. 

Poisons and their Antidotes.— In cases where the other 
articles to be used as antidotes are not in the house, give 2 table- 
spoonfuls made mustard in a pint of warm water. Also give 
large draughts of warm milk or water mixed with oil, butter or 
lard. If possible, give as follows: 

For Bed-Bug Poison, Blue Vitriol, Corrosive Sublimate, 
Lead Water, Saltpeter, Sugar of Lead, Sulphate of Zinc, Red 
Precipitate, Vermilion. — Give milk or white of eggs, in large 
quantities. Wheat flour and water. 

Nitrate of Potash. — Alum and cathartics. Castor oil, Epsom 
salts. 

For Fowler's Solution, White Precipitate, Arsenic — Give 
prompt emetic of mustard and salt, tablespoonful of each; follow 



492 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

with sweet oil, butter or milk. White of eggs, chalk and water 
for arsenic. 

For Antimonial Wine, Tartak Emetic. — Drink warm water to 
encourage vomiting. If vomiting does not stop, give a grain of 
opium in water. Use a tea made of white oak bark or Peruvian 
bark. 

For Oil of Vitriol, Aqua Fortis, Bi-Carbonate Potassa, Muri- 
atic Acid, Oxalic Acid. — Magnesia or soap, dissolved in water, 
every two minutes. 

For Caustic Soda, Caustic Potash, Volatile Alkali, Strong 
Lime Water. — Drink freely of water with vinegar or lemon juice 
in it. 

For Carbolic Acid. — Give flour and water or glutinous drinks. 

For Chloral Hydrate, Chloroform. — Pour cold water over 
the head and face with artificial respiration, galvanic battery. 

For Carbonate of Soda, Copperas, Cobalt. — Prompt emetics; 
soap and water or mucilaginous drinks. 

For Laudanum, Morphine, Opium. — Strong coffee followed by 
ground mustard or grease in warm water to produce vomiting. 
Keep in motion. 

For Nitrate of Silver, Lunar Caustic — Give common salt 
in water. 

For Strychnine, Tincture Nux Vomica. — Emetic of mustard 
or sulphate of zinc, aided by warm water. Camphor also is an 
effective antidote for strychnine. Administer 5 or 6 grains at a 
time in an emulsion, flaxseed tea for instance. 

Alcohol. — An emetic; then dash cold water on the head and 
give ammonia in a little water. 

Ammonia. — Lemon juice or vinegar, afterward milk and water 
or Flaxseed tea. 

Creosote. — White of eggs and emetics. 

Bell.\donna OR Night Henbane. — Emetics; then vinegar and 
and water or lemonade. 

Verdigris. — Plenty of white of egg and water. 

Tobacco. — First an emetic, then astringent teas, then stimu- 
lants. 

Prussio Acid. — When there is time administer chlorine in the 



HEALTH. 493 

shape of soda or lime. Hot brandy and water and hartshorn 
and turpentine are also useful. 

Mushrooms (Poisonous). — Emetics; then plenty of vinegar 
and water, with a dose of ether, if handy. 

Charcoal, All Carbonic Gases. — Remove the patient to the 
open air; dash cold water on the head and body, stimulate the 
nostrils and lungs by hartshorn, rubbing the chest briskly. 

Most, but not all, poisons call for an emetic. Those given at 
the beginning are the best and most easily accessible. A pint of 
Warm water with a tablespoonful of ground mustard and a table- 
spoonful of salt stirred in works quickly. Use no ceremony in 
administering this. Seize the patient's nose firmly, when, as a 
natural consequence, the mouth opens; turn the emetic down. 
Use cold water if warm is not convenient. After this has worked, 
if it is not known what^the poison is, or if no, other antidotes are 
handy, give first the white of an egg and follow with a cupful of 
strong coflfee. A pint of sweet oil will nullify a large number of 
poisons. Melted lard or butter may take its place. Warm milk 
and water is good; flaxseed and slippery-elm tea, chalk and 
water. Also convulsions from an over-loaded stomach may be 
relieved by an emetic. 

Hot Water, or liquids taken into the mouth or swallowed, 
may be relieved by gargling with borax water. (Dissolve an ounce 
of pulverized borax in a quart of soft water.) Give also slippery- 
elm tea, and a little olive oil occasionally. 

Wounds and Accidents. — Incised wounds are those inflicted 
by sharp cutting instruments. Close as soon as possible. Apply 
slight pressure until the blood has stopped and hold in place with 
strips of adhesive plaster, and then bind up with soft linen. 

Severed Arteries are indicated by the blood coming in jets 
or spurts from the wound, and the sooner a physician is on the 
spot the better. While waiting tie a handkerchief loosely around 
near the wound, between it and the heart. Put a stick between 
the handkerchief and the skin, twist it around until the blood 
ceases to flow. If the wound is in a position where the handker- 
chief cannot be used, press the thumb on a spot near the cut, 
between it and the heart. Increase the pressure until the 



494 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

bleeding ceases, but do not lessen the pressure an instant until 
the doctor arrives. Every one should understand and remembtr 
these rules, as in default of them speedy death will be the result. 

Bleediug of Severe Cuts may often be stopped by the appli- 
cation of quantities of salt and flour, spread on thickly. This 
will answer in a moderate cut always. Cobwebs are used suc- 
cessfully also. 

Contused Wounds are those from blunt or rough instruments, 
making torn, irregular incisions. Care should be taken to remove 
by washing or otherwise all outside matter from the wound, and 
to place the parts as nearly as possible in their proper positions. 
Then, after stopping the effusion of blood by slight pressure, wipe 
dry and apply adhesive straps, the same as in incised wounds; as 
the surface of the wound has been more seriously injured, there 
will be more reaction. Keep the wounded part immersed in hot 
water, as hot as can be borne, until the inflammation has sub- 
sided. This may be done even before the adhesive plasters are 
applied. Where the case is serious this will be found to act like 
a charm in relieving the pain and inflammation; then keep on 
cotton batting wet in hot water. Cures have been effected in this 
manner where amputation has seemed necessary. Keep it up until 
the inflammation has subsided. If cold water is all that is attain- 
able, apply it by means of compresses kept wet. A few drops of 
laudanum in the water wUl help to relieve the pain. 

Punctured Wounds made by any sharp point, as a needle, 
pin, thorn, sharp nail, etc., often become very painful and sup- 
purate — sometimes involving the whole limb. It should be uni- 
versally known that to pound the part immediately after the punc- 
ture, giving it several smart taps with almost any object within 
reach, will invariably prevent the subsequent soreness and sup- 
puration. The pain will be increased by the pounding, for a 
minute or two, but very soon after all pain and soreness will dis- 
appear. Trifling as this may seem to some, it may nevertheless, 
if heeded, prevent a case of lock-jaw. 

Bruises treated with hot water will be speedily relieved. (See 
Linament for Bruises.) 

To Prevent Discoloration of the skin after a bruise, bathe 



HEALTH. /{Q5 

as above in hot water, and then apply molasses spread on paper or 
linen. No mark will be left. Or make a paste of dry starch and 
cold water and put ou the injured part. 

Sprains are also best treated with hot water. Pour it from 
a distance upon the sprained joint. Use water as hot as can be 
oorne, persisting until the inflammation and swelling have sub- 
sided. Then bandage and use some simple remedy. 

Stings of Bees and other insects. Put a little common baking 
soda in a Aviue-glassful of vinegar and bathe the part affected. Im- 
mediate relief follows, and no pain or swelling will ensue. Olive 
or sweet oil also affords relief, and fresh earth bound on is certain 
and sure relief. 

Clothing Taking Fire. — Although a fire, keep cool; act 
promptly, smother the flames, if possible. Circumstances will 
have much to do with the manner of doing this. Pressing or 
folding a heavy blanket or garments down over the fire; rolling 
over and over; or, if by any means it can be accomplished, dis- 
robe, get out of the burning garments. No doubt many persons 
have lost their lives by fire from yieldi*-^ to fright. Presence of 
mind is of absolute importance in all cases. 

Lock-jaw, To Prevent. — For a flesh wound, throw a handful 
of wool or woolen rags upon a shovelful of hot coals and smoke 
the wounded part until relief is obtained, which is usually in a few 
minutes. This treatment prevents all danger of lock-jaw, at the 
same time removes the pain and inflammation. Let woolen rags 
be always at hand for this purpose. Wounds made by the claws 
and teeth of an enraged cat, rusty nails or rake-tines, all yield to 
this treatment, no matter how severe the pain. Sometimes the 
smoke of common brown sugar may be used in this way. 

Lock-jaw, To Cure. — Warm a small quantity of spirits of 
turpentine and pour upon the wound. Belief will follow in less 
than a minute. 

Lock-jaw, To Cure,(IL)— 1 ounce of lobelia seed, poimded 
fine, 2 ounces of Cayenne pepper, ^ pint of hot drops. Put in a 
bottle and skake well before using. Pour a little into the mouth, 
bctwcccn thf^ teeth and check. It will relax the spasms as soon as 
it touches the glands or roots of the tongue, and the jaws will 



496 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

loosen. It goes through the system like electricity, excites per- 
spiration in the j)atient. Give a dose of the above as soon as the 
spasms abate, and use pennyroyal tea for a frequent drink. 

Hydrophobia.— The above lobelia mixture is said to be a cure 
for hydrophobia, it having been used also on mad dogs them- 
selves. 

Another cure that the newspE pers have heralded far and wide 
with the attested names of various reliable persons, is one that 
cannot be too widely circulated. Immediately after being bitten 
take 1^ ounces of elecampane ( a plant known to most persons), 
slice and bruise, put in a pint of fresh milk, boil down to J pint, 
and, when cold, drink, fasting for at least six hours afterward. 
The green root is, perhaps, better, but the dried, to be found at any 
drug store, will answer. The next morning, before eating, repeat 
the dose, using 2 ounces of the root. Fast six hours afterward. 
On the third morning take another dose, prepared as before. Fol- 
low the same rules. This is sufficient. The root, it is supposed, 
contains some principle that neutralizes the deadly poison of the 
bite, while fresh milk itself is an antidote for many poisons. 

Rattlesnake Bites.— Moisten fresh earth with water or 
saliva and bind on the wound immediately, changing every quarter 
of an hour. Tie a handkerchief tightly above the Avound, to pre- 
vent the poison spreading, keep the patient quiet, and send for 
enough whisky to completely stupefy him as quickly as possible. 
Eecovery is usually sure. Or cut a small gash in the wound and 
apply hydrochloric acid. This is sure without the whisky. 

Snake Bites of Any Description.— Have the wound well 
washed with ammonia and then sear in every part with lunar caus- 
tic, every portion, especially the deep-seated portions. It is well 
to take large draughts of sweet oil also. In districts infested with 
reptiles such antidotes should be always on hand. 

Washing the wound with a strong solution of salt and water, 
and, in bad cases, inserting salt in the wound itself is also recom- 
mended, and it is well to resort to it in the absence of other rem- 
edies 

Burns and Scalds. — Common wadding will take the pain 
from burns or scalds. Simply open a piece of catton and put 



HEALTH. 497 

on the burned place. If the burn is very bad, put sweet oil on tho 
cotton, pouring it on the outside. Do not attempt to remove the 
cotton until it comes off itself. Castor oil is very cooling to use 
in place of sweet oil. 

Second. — A simple covering of common wheat flour is un- 
equaled for a burn. The moisture produced upon the surface of a 
burn is at once absorbed by the flour and forms a paste which shuts 
out the air, and at the same time keeps the covering moist and 
flexible. If the burn is very bad and the covering becomes dry, it 
should be washed off carefully, a little at a time, and fresh flour 
used. 

Third. — Scraped potatoes are also a very cooling application. 
Change frequently. 

Fourth. — Molasses will give immediate relief. Saturate cot- 
ton batting or cloth with it and bind on. 

Fifth. — Sprinkle the burned surface thickly with baking- 
soda, or make a saturated solution of the soda; wring cloths from 
it and apply, changing as they become dry. When the pain is 
relieved remove, and use an absorbent dressing if the burn is a 
very deep one. 

Sixth. — A deep burn should have the following dressing: 
Spread gauze thicldy with an ointment. Either of those given 
below are very satisfactory, the Balm of Gilead salve being unsur- 
passed. Cover the gauze with cotton ; absorbent cotton is best. 

Burnt alum powdered is the best thing in the world to put 
into an old sore, especially if there is any proud flesh in it. 

Large Surface Burns are frequently treated with sweet oil 
and lime water, equal parts of each. Mix and keep on hand for 
use. 

Carron 'Oil. — 1 pound of lime will make a quart of lime 
water. Pour off the lime water, add the oil, and beat to a cream. 
Linseed oil can be used with an equally good effect. "Wring cloths 
out of this and apply, covering with oiled silk or paper. Balm of 
Gilead ointment, though, is unsurpassed as a cooling and healing 
application. Apply in the same way as Carron oil. 

White of Eggs can be applied to burns as a cooling cover- 
ing; this keeps out the air and prevents pain and inflammation. 
3? 



49^ THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Vaseline, sweet cream and even a coating of mucilage are useful 
in the case of slight burns. 

Balm of Gilead Ointment. — Put Balm Gilead buds in 
water, a little more than will cover them. Boil an hour. Pick out 
the buds and add ^ pound of mutton tallow, and ^ pound of lard 
to 1 pint of the liquid. Boil until thick. Unrivaled for any pur- 
pose for which a salve is required. 

Golden Salve.— 1 pint of linseed oil, f pound of rosin, | 
pound of bees-wax. Melt thoroughly and turn in tin boxes. One 
of the best salves known for burns, scalds, or any injury for which 
a salve is needed. 

Poison Ivy (Kemedy for). — Dissolve a bit of sugar of lead 
the size of a hazel-nut in half a cupful sweet milk, or warm 
water. Apply as warm as can be used, with a soft bit of old linen. 
Three or four applications are sufficient for a cure. If the poison 
is on the face, this astringent wash maybe applied constantly. It 
is a marvelous cure. Sugar of lead should be kept in the house 
labeled, and closely covered to keep the strength. Tincture of 
lobelia is a good application, and copperas dissolved in water is 
useful also. 

MRDIGINRS. 

Infusions are made by adding a pint of boUing water to an 
ounce of the plant previously bruised and mashed. After standing 
for two or three hours in a covered vessel, the mixture is strained. 
Most infusions exert a greater effect when taken warm. 

Decoctions are made by adding a pint and a half of water to 
an ounce of the plant, boiling down to 1 pint, and straining. 

Extracts are made by adding a small amount of alcohol to 
the bruised leaves or other parts of the plant. The juice is thus 
extracted, and is placed in a warm place to evaporate until it 
becomes as thick as honey. 

Blood Purifier. — 6 ounces fluid extract sarsaparilla,6 ounces 
fluid extract stilliugia, 1 drachm iodide potassium. Mix. Prepare 
for use by taking ^ of the mixture to f syyup (made of sugar and 
water as for table use). Shake up before using; 1 teaspoonful is a 



HEALTH. 499 

dose for a child two years old. Use more or less according to the 
age. 

Red Clover tea is excellent for the hlood. Gather the blos- 
soms and dry them; make into a strong tea and use for a constant 
driuk. Unrivaled in scrofula and other blood diseases. A tea of 
dried or fresh whortleberries is recommended by some. 

Boot Tea for the Blood.— Dandelion and sarsaparilla, each 
1 drachm of dried root, pulverized. Put into a pitcher and pour 
over it 1 pint of boiling water at night, drink the next day at 
intervals. Do this for one month, the effect will be very good. 

Salt Bhenm. — 1 ounce of saltpeter, 1 pint of rum. Mix ; 1 
teaspoonful three times a day before eating. Very good, cooling to 
the blood. 

Alterative Blood Purifier.— 

12 ounces Honduras sarsaparilla. 
6 ounces guaiacum shavings. 
4 ounces wintergreen leaves. 
4 ounces sassafras root or bark. 
4 ounces elder flowers. 

3 ounces yellowdock root. 

4 ounces burdock root. 
6 ounces dandelion root. 

2 ounces bitter sweet root. 

Bruise all and put in a suitable vessel, add 1 pint of alcohol 
with water enough to cover the roots, stand in a warm place four 
days. Pour off 1 pint of the tincture and set aside; add 1 quart 
of water to the remainder and boil awhile, turn ofiF and add another 
quart of water and boil down, pour off again (the two last 
together should be about 1 quart). Strain and add the previous 
pint of hquor, put over the stove ^\^th 2.| pounds of crushed sugar 
and simmer to form of a syrup. Dose; 1 or 2 tablespoonfuls one- 
half hour before meals, or at bed time. This is unrivaled in scro- 
fula and other blood diseases. 

Erysipelas, Certain Cure for.— 4 ounces of sweet spirits of 
nitre, 2 drachms iodide of potash. Mix, rub over the inflamed 
portion with a soft cloth dipped in the mixture, dampening the 
entire affected surface every hour. When the bathed suface 



500 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

becomes tin ashy color do not moisten that part any more. Be sure 
that none of the liquid gets in the eyes or mouth. Take salts three 
times a day in small doses. 

Second. — Those afflicted with this disease, would find a great 
relief, and also preventative, in 1 tablespoonful of salts and 1 
tablespoonful cream-tartar put in a large cup and filled with hot 
water. Of this drink one large swallow every morning before 
breakfast, whenever the stomach is not quite right, as this is good 
for dyspepsia also. 

Consumption. — Take a large handful of hoarhound and make 
a tea as strong as possible; take an equal sized handful of mullein 
leaves and make a tea in the same manner. Then take 1 cupful 
of the hoarhound tea, and 1 cupful of the mullein tea, mix, put in 
a sauce-pan and add 1 cupful of molasses; boil to a syrup, the 
quicker the better. Take a large swallow three times a day. A 
ciure will be guaranteed in all cases not too far advanced. 

Consumptive Night Sweats.— Sponge the body of the 
patient off at night with strong salt and water, or give the follow- 
ing preparation: ^ ounce essence of tansy, | ounce water, ^ 
ounce alcohol, 15 grains quinine, 80 drops muriatic acid. Mix, 
dose, 1 teaspoonful in ^ cupful of sage tea twice a day and always 
at night. It is asserted by many that a large fiat pan of cold water 
set under the bed on the side occupied by the patient will effectually 
cure when everything else fails. 

Cough Syrup. — 1 ounce thoroughwort, 1 ounce slippery elm 
bark, 1 ounce stick liquorice, 1 ounce flaxseed. Simmer in 1 quart 
of water until all the strength is out. Strain, and add 1 pint of 
the best molasses, | pound of loaf siigar; simmer well together. 
"When cold, bottle. 

Flaxseed Syrup, or Lemonade for Coughs and Whooping 
Cough. — Boil 1 ounce of flaxseed in 1 quart of boiling water one- 
half hour. Strain and add to the liquid the juice of 2 lemons and 
h pound of rock candy (loaf sugar may be used but the candy is 
better). If the cough is accompanied by weakness and loss of 
appetite, add |- ounce of gum arable. Set this to simmer one-half 
hour, stirring occasionally. Take a wine-glassful whenever the 



HEALTH. 501 

cough is troublesome. For whooping cough give after every 
paroxysm. 

Cough Mixtures. — 1 tablespoonful molasses, 1 tablespoonful 
of castor oil, 1 teaspoon ful camphor, 1 teaspoonful of paregoric. 
Mix together, and take a teaspoonful before bed time, and before 
each meal. 

Second. — Hot honey, 1 teaspoonful every one-quarter hour, 
will break up the worst cold in one day. It will also relieve severe 
spasms of asthma. The constant use of honey keeps the throat 
in a healthful state, and it cannot be too highly recommended as 
an article of diet. Kubbiug turj)entine on the chest is also a relief. 

Colds (To Cure). — "When the first symptoms are felt imme- 
diately remove shoes and stockings and put the feet to the fire, not 
merely warming but keeping them as hot as can be borne for half an 
hour. If done soon enough this will arrest any cold. If this can- 
not be done, wrap up the shoulders and throat in a heavy woolen 
shawl, pinning closely, even partly over the head, and remain so, 
if possible, until bed time, or at least until all chilly sensations 
disappear. A hot foot bath, or even a hot hand bath, is often 
effectual. A drink of hot lemonade on retiring, or almost any hot 
tea, sage, etc. Such means as these are often the "stitch in time." 
By waiting until morning the cold is settled, and time and patience 
will be required for its cure. 

Catarrh Recipe (Inhalation). — 12 grains carbolic acid, 1 
ounce of chloroform, 12 grains iodine crystals. Mix in a bottle 
and inhale three times a day. 

Catarrh Snuff. — Equal parts of pulverized sugar and finely 
ground borax. Use frequently — very helpful, especially so in a bad 
cold. 

Croup. — Turpentine is a sovereign remedy for croup. Satu- 
rate a piece of flannel with it and place the flannel on the throat 
and chest, and, in Very severe cases, 3 or 4 drops on a lump of 
sugar may be taken inwardly. Every family should have a bottle 
on hand. 

A warm bath will frequently relieve the worst paroxysm ; or 
bathing the feet in hot water and rubbing with heated flannels. 
Small doses of hive syrup may be used as an emetic. 



502 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Diphtheria. — This formidable disease is comparatively man- 
ageable, if one fact is kept in view. The white secretion in the 
throat is poisonous to the blood, if swallowed. A sore throat, with 
patches of white on the tonsils just back of the root of the tongue 
indicates its approach. Fill a tumbler half full of salt, fill up 
with water, stir until the solution is strong as possible. Tie a 
soft sponge or rag securely on a notched stick, for a swab, and 
saturate it with the brine, and pass it well back in the throat be- 
hind the white patches, and wipe them off clean, bringing out of 
the mouth. Rinse the swab each time before putting back in the 
mouth, and, to keep the brine clean, pour some to use in a sepa- 
rate dish. Repeat this as often as the mucus forms. If there is 
more than one patient have a separate swab for each one. It will 
be well also to fill a hose half full of salt, wet it with cold water 
and apply to the throat so that the salt will extend from ear to 
ear. Lemon juice is a veiy good gargle. 
Diphtheria Wash.— 

Golden seal, pulverized, 1 drachm. 

Borax, pulverized, 1 drachm. 

Black pepper, pulverized, 1 drachm. 

Alum, pulverized, 1 drachm. 

Nitrate of potash, pulverized, 1 drachm. 

Salt, pulverized, 2 drachms. 
Put all in a common teacup and pour half full of boiling 
water. Stir and fill up with good vinegar. Fit for use when it 
settles. 

Make a swab according to first directions and use in the same 
manner. Let the patient swallow a little each time. Swab thor- 
oughly every half hour, if the patient is bad, if not every hour. 
When better, every two hours, then every four hours, then two or 
three times a day until well, which will be from two to seven 
days. This will never fail if taken before the diphtheria membrane 
extends into the air tubes. At the same time rub the following 
liniment on the throat outside, every three or four hours, keeping 
a flannel cloth outside : 

1 ounce spirits of turpentine. 
1 ounce of aqua ammonia. 



HEALTH. 503 

1 ounce of sweet or linseed oil. 

Mix; shake before using. Give small doses of castor oil. If 
a common sore throat should be mistaken for diphtheria, no matter, 
it will cure it almost invariably. This is a well known physician's 
prescription. Teach a child to gargle the throat when well and it 
will be a great assistance in illness. 

Second. — Take a shovelful of hot coals and sprinkle over them 
1 or 2 tablespoonfuls of flower of sulphur, and put the shovel 
under the bed. Remove as soon as the patient begins to cough. 
Try this two or three nights and it will be found that the fumes of 
the sulphur will destroy the fungus called diphtheria. 

Quinsy. — Use camphor. Simply wet the finger in it and 
apply it to the tonsils every few minutes. It will relieve very 
quickly. 

Hay Fever, Rose Cold. — Use a mild solution of borax, 
salt and muriate of ammonia, in a cupful of soft water; add a drop 
of carbolic acid and 1 or 2 drops of camphor. Snuflf up the nose 
and use as a gargle. 

Second. — Mix 3 drops each of peppermint oil, oil of rosemary, 
oil of cloves and any other pungent oil ; put in a tiny bottle and 
inhale occasionally to clear the head. 

Canker in Mouth or Throat. — 1 drachm of chlorate of 
potash in 1 cupful of warm water. Use for a gargle. 

Whooping Cough. — Give the Flaxseed Syrup after every 
paroxysm, and when the disease is at its height put 1 ounce of the 
strongest liquid of ammonia in a gallon of boiling water poured in 
an open pan, and the steam kept up by means of half a brick 
made thoroughly red-hot and dropped in the pan. Put this in the 
room and let the patient inhale the ammoniated steam. This will 
soon end the cough. 

A Fish Bone swallowed accidentally may be carried safely 
down the throat by taking the raw white of an egg as quickly as 
possible. 

Rheumatism.— Serving asparagus as the chief article of diet 
and avoiding all acids in food or drink, will effect great relief in a 
few days. This plant, the Jerusalem artichoke, etc., all naturally 
growing near the sea, contains iodine, a rheumatic specific. 



504 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Celery also, boiled in milk or water and eaten, with milk or 
water served as a beverage, is very helpful in the same disease. 
Eaten in any form it will be found healthful. In Germany they 
boil the root and stalks, and then eat it as a salad with oil and 
vinegar. 

Nervousness. — Nervous people are greatly benefited by a 
diet of celery. Onions are next best. Parsley with vinegar re- 
moves the effects of eating on^ions. No medicine is really so effi- 
cacious in case of nervous prostration, and they tone up a worn- 
out system in a very short time. 

Rheumatism No. (II.) — Take 6 large onions to a pint of mo- 
lasses, steep until a thick syrup is formed. Take every two or 
three hours. Persevere and success will follow. A tea of burdock 
roots, or burdock leaves, may be taken at the same time with good 
effect. 

For an outward application, a flannel bag filled with arnica 
blossoms, and heated in a steamer, may be applied to the spot. 

Rheumatic Application.— 1 part oil of peppermint and 2 
parts of alcohol. Apply to the affected parts. The relief is almost 
instantaneous. Shake well, and keep the bottle closely corked. 

Wormwood Liniment. — Make the liniment strong as pos- 
sible with good vinegar and wormwood, adding a piece of Salt- 
petre the size of a hickory-nut to ^ pint of the liquid. This is 
good also for a weak or sprained back. 

Little Giant Linament. — 

2 ounces of laudanum. 

2 drachms oil of sassafras. 

2 drachms oil of cedar. 

2 drachms spirits of turpentine. 

2 drachms of gum camphor. 

2 drachms tincture of capsicum. 

1 pint of alcohol. 

Balm of Gilead Tincture (For Cuts or Bruises).— Fill 
a 4-ounce bottle one-fourth full of Balm of Grilead buds, fill up the 
bottle with alcohol. Let stand a week. The result is a tincture 
in many respects superior to arnica, especially in raw sores. 

Neuralgia. — Put 1 teaspoonful of ammonia in a cup and fill 



HEALTH. 505 

with boiling water. Take a teaspoouful every half hour for two 
hours. Relief is almost certain. This is good for all nervous 
pains, earache, toothache and headache. Never take ammonia in 
any quantity, as it is injurious. Pure alcohol is also a relief. 
Bathe the face with it, and inhale also. Also put a few drops on 
a lump of sugar and eat the sugar, or put a teaspoouful in ^ cup- 
ful of hot water, sweeten slightly and drink by degrees. To cure 
neuralgia, relieve as much as possible and take great care of the 
health and general circulation. Bathe carefully, dress warmly and 
loosely. Never over-exert mind or body and neuralgia will grad- 
ually disappear. A cut lemon rubbed on the affected part will 
often relieve. 

Sciatica and Neuralgia. —Heat a flat-iron or a brick and 
cover it with two or three thicknesses of flannel wrung out of strong 
vinegar, and apply to the painful spot. Repeat the operation two 
or three times a day. As a rule, the pain disappears within 
twenty-four hours, and recovery follows quickly. This is simply an 
improvised electric apparatus. 

Felons. — A deep-seated, throbbing pain in the end of the 
finger should never be disregarded. This is the first symptom of 
a felon. Dip the finger quickly into boiling water several times in 
succession. This may be done without any risk of scalding. 
Repeat every hour for several hours, and the cure is generally 
complete. 

Second. — Procure several lemons. Cut a small opening in 
the end of one and push the finger in. Keep it there until the 
lemon ceases to draw, then apply another, and keep on until the 
pain is relieved. 

Third. — Heat 1 teaspoouful of table salt until perfectly dry. 
Add to it 1 teaspoouful of castile soap cut fine, and mix with 1 
teaspoouful of Venice turpentine. Apply to the felon. Renew 
twice a day. A sure cure. If the felon has been opened, or there 
is danger of losing the bone or a joint, apply the poultice, and this 
will effect a speedy cure. 

Fourth. — Put directly over the throbbing spot a fly blister the 
size of a fiuger'nail. Let remain six hours. At the expiration of 



5o6 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

this time the felon may be seen directly under the surface of the 
blister, and can be easily removed with a pin or penknife. 

Chest Protectors. — Make of muslin, lined with two thick- 
nesses of flannel ; quilt together that they may be easily washed. 

Pain-Killer.— 

1 ounce spirits of camphor. 
^ ounce tincture of guaiac. 
^ ounce tincture of myrrh. 

1^ ounce tincture of capsicum. 
4 ounces alcohol. 

2 ounces brandy. Mix. 

Cholera Mixture. — Take equal parts of tincture of capsicum, 
tincture of opium, tincture of rhubarb, essence of peppermint and 
spirits of camphor. Mix and put in a small vial to carry in the 
pocket. Dose — fifteen to twenty drops in a wine-glass of water. 
Repeat at quarter-hour intervals until relief is obtained. Even 
where no cholera is anticipated it is an excellent thing for ordinary 
summer diseases. 

Summer Diseases (Chronic Cases). — i ounce gunpowder, i 
ounce alum, ^ ounce saltpeter, ^ ounce cream- tartar, ^ ounce 
flower of sulphur. Pulverize separately. Mix and sift through a 
fine cloth. Take | teaspoonful for a dose* It may be mixed, if 
wished, with a little vinegar and water. A tried cure. 

Second. — For more simple cases, mix a teaspoonful of flour 
smooth in a glass, then fill up with cold water. Prepare ^ 
teaspoonful of camphor in ^ cupful of water. Drink the flour 
and water and follow with the camphor to remove sickness. 
Repeat several times a day, or as often as pain and illness return. 

Third. — ^ ounce rhubarb, 30 drops oil peppermint, ^ ounce 
soda. Mix and turn over it ^ pint boiling water. Let it settle, 
pour off carefully from the sediment and add 4 ounces of brandy, 
or use the "Cholera Mixture." 

Medicine Takers will do well to put a bit of alum in the 
mouth for a moment before taking medicine. It can then be taken 
like water. 

Dyspepsia. — Quassia chips. Dose — | teaspoonful of the 
chips in a. tumbler of water. Take a swaUow before meals. Refill 



HEALTH. 507 

the tumbler two or three mornings and then take new chips, or 
take 1 ounce quassia chips, | pint gin, k pint water. Put in a hot 
tie and do not use until the chips settle. Dose — 1 tablespoonful 
before eating. Hop tea is also very good. 

Acid stomach and Headache.— 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 
1 tablespoonful water, baking soda the size of a grain of corn. 
Stir until it foams and drink at once. See also second cure for 
Erysipelas. This is good for liver. 

Small-pox and Scarlet Fever. — See directions for contagious 
diseases. Sponge the body of the patient in both cases frequently 
in warm water with a little glycerine added. In scarlet fever the 
patient is frequently anointed from head to foot with sweet oil or 
unsalted butter, the great necessity being to keep the skin moist 
and flexible and aid it to do its work. Give the following mixture: 
1 grain sulphate of zinc, 1 grain fox-glove (digitalis), ^ teaspoon- 
sugar. Mix with 2 tablespoonfuls water, and take a spoon- 
ful every hour. This is a reliable recipe. The course of the 
disease will usually be run in twenty-four hours. 

Ring-worm. — Moisten with saliva and rub the ashes of a 
good cigar thoroughly into the sore spot. Do this three times a 
day and all will be well in a few days ; or an ointment of lard and 
gunpowder may be used. 

Mortification, external or internal, in man or animal. See 
first cure for Summer Diseases for Chronic Cases. Dose — 1 tea- 
spoonful mixed with vinegar, or apply if external. Unrivalled. 

Ague or Chills. — Break an egg into enough strong vinegar 
to float it. Stir slightly and swallow. Kepeat the dose three 
times a day for three days. A certain cure. 

Headache. — 1 ounce of bromide of potassium in 4 ounces of 
water. Take a teaspoonful every hour or half hour if the pain is 
severe. If not so severe, three or four times a day. This is 
almost infallible. Sleep taken at the right moment will prevent 
nervous headache. Nature calls for it by a weariness or heaviness 
which preceeds such an attack. Sleeping an hour or two will 
often prevent it. 

Fits. — Pulverize equal quantities of dried sage leaves and 



5o8 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

white sugar and take some every morning before breakfast for 
several weeks. 

Heartburn. — Dissolve 1 salt spoonful of salt in half a wine- 
glass of water and drink. 

Earache. — Take a small piece of cotton wool; make a de- 
pression in the center and fill with black pepper; gather into a 
ball and tie up; dip it in sweet oil and insert it into the ear. 
Almost instant relief will be experienced. Tie a flannel bandage 
over the head. Juice from a roasted onion is good. A piece of 
salt pork cut in a pointed strip inserted in the ear will give 
relief. 

Poultices. — Poultices of bread and milk, flaxseed, slippery 
elm, or any other kind, may be worn with more comfort, and 
removed with more ease, if the surface is spread over, before 
applying, with a little perfectly fresh lard or sweet oil. If there 
is much pain, a few drops of laudanum may be mixed with the 
poultice. Spread always on soft old cloths. 

Mustard plasters, or poultices, will not blister, only draw, if 
mixed with the white of an egg. 

To Prevent Chaffing of the skin in an invalid, which is apt 
to occur after long confinement in bed, especially if the position 
cannot be frequently changed. Bathe the parts subjected to pres- 
sure at least twice a day with alcohol. This hardens the skin, or 
beat the white of an egg to a stiff froth and add while beating 2 
teaspoonfuls of spirits of wine. Put in a bottle and apply occa- 
sionally with a feather. If these precautions should have been 
neglected, and soretiess of the skin already appears, it may be 
healed by the following ointment. Take five cents worth each of 
quicksilver and aqua fortis, pour together and place over a slow fire. 
The aqua fortis will eat up the quicksilver, but if any should remain 
take out. Add a pint of lard and simmer a few minutes. This 
salve may be applied and will be found a. cure. 

Bleeding at the Nose.— Stand perfectly erect, throw the 
head a little back, place the finger on the affected side of the nose, 
close the mouth tightly and draw air through the free nostril as 
long as possible. Repeat this until the bleeding ceases. 

Second. — Vigorous chewing motion of the jaws will arrest 



HEALTH. 509 

bleeding at the nose. If necessary take a wad of paper and chew 
hard. This is effectual. 

The Ears. — To remove peas, beans or pebbles from the ear, 
syringe them out with warm water. For a discharging ear, syringe 
out with warm water every morning, or take a bit of cotton with 
very small tweezers, and cleanse the ear with this. Then blow a 
small quantity of Boracic acid through a quill into the ear. This 
acid is harmless and a cure. 

Insects lodging in the ear should be floated out by filling the 
ear cavity with sweet oil. This will, at least, kill the intruder, 
and, if it does not appear, call a doctor to remove it next day. 

If cotton is to be used in the ear be sure to take a piece too 
large to slip into the ear cavity. Deafness is sometimes caused in 
this way. Never wear cotton unless absolutely necessary. 

The Nose. — In case of a foreign object getting lodgment up 
the nose, do not attempt to remove it, but blow with some strength 
into the open mouth, and the object will be expelled. 

If a child persists in sucking a finger or thumb, rub the finger 
every day with turpentine or extract of quassia. The unpleasant 
bitter will soon put an end to the habit. 

A Copper Coin Swallowed may be rendered harmless by a 
diet of bread and milk, giving nothing sour, as this would corrode 
the metal. Also give the raw white of an egg three times a day, 
and a dose of castor oil every night. 

Sleeplessness, Insomnia. — The usual cause of this trouble 
is too much blood in the brain, and those thus affected will often 
find it advantageous to raise the head of the bed a foot higher, and 
then sleep on a thick hair pillow so as to bring the head a little 
higher than the shoulders. The object of this is to make the work 
of the heart harder in throwing blood to the brain. Sometimes 
rising for a time, wrapping up and sitting in a chair with the feet, 
if possible, at the fire. Take a short nap in this manner, and then 
return to bed. Part of a raw onion eaten with salt will often quiet 
the nervous system and produce sleep iu a few minutes. After 
continued mental labor, a light lunch before retiring will often 
induce sleep, as the work of digestion draws the blood from the 
brain to the stomach. Or have the room dimly lighted, lie with 



5IO THREE MEALS A DAY. 

the head propped high. Select some object a little to one side. 
Look steadily at this. Let the eyes get well a- weary, and refresh- 
ing sleep will soon follow. 

Foot Baths for Burning Feet. — Use water as hot as can 
be borne. This will be found a great relief. Baths of sand, warm 
and moist, are also good. Bury the feet in this up to the ankles, 
and let remain from twenty to thirty minutes. 

Hysteria. — This can frequently be controlled by firmness on 
the part of the attendant. Kelate some astonishing incident to 
change the train of thought ; be decided ; give ammonia to inhale ; 
give a hot foot bath, or warm bath, to the whole person. 

Convulsions maybe frequently cut short, like magic, by turn- 
ing the patient on the left side. The nausea, as an after efifect of 
chloroform and other anaesthetics, may generally be controlled in 
the same manner. 

Warts. — Touch them with nitrate of silver, or tincture of 
iodine, or bathe them two or three times a day with strong saleratus 
water, heating it in by the fire. Nitric acid applied is also a sure 
cure, but is a little painful. 

Wens. — Paint with iodine daily (colorless tincture if to be 
had), or as often as it will bear the apphcation. This is slow but 
sure. 

Stiffened Finger Joints.— Dissolve camphor gum in olive 
oil, and rub the stiffened joint with this preparation three or four 
times daily. The rubbing, as well as the oil, helps to soften the 
bony formation around the joints. 

Weakened Sinew. — Bind a piece of tea lead the size of a 
silver dollar over the swollen joint. Do this firmly, it will effect 
a cure in a few days. This may be hastened, if the case is very 
bad, by gentle beating with a knife handle, increasing the force as 
it can be borne. 




T^JiE ^^0lhE^. 



*¥J^ EALTH is one of the requisites to the making up of a fine 
I I complexion, A sickly plant commands our care, but not 
•^^^ our admiration. So with the individual. A buoyant step 
and healthful glow on cheek and lip, are irresistible in their 
power over us. To possess these the greatest care should be taken. 
Plenty of nutritious food well cooked and at regular intervals. 
Exercise in the open air. Early hours for rest and sleep are all 
absolutely necessary. Avoid medicine of a di-astic and debilitating 
nature, and in the spring, when circulation is clogged and digestion 
sluggish, take a tablespoonful of French charcoal mixed carefully 
in water or honey before meals for several days, following this 
each evening with a teaspoonf ul of extract of dandelion ; or take 
the same dose of charcoal at night, follow it with a large spoonful 
of finely minced onion. There is no greater purifier in the medi- 
cal pharmacy than charcoal. In the spring of the year, eat freely 
of cabbage, lettuce and all herbaceous food. If this diet is accom- 
panied and followed by the requisite amount of bathing, it will 
work wonders with the most stubborn complexion and give health 
and elasticity to the sluggish frame. If spring tonics are pre- 
scribed, never take them until after charcoal has been used as 
above directed, when the system will be found in a state to be 
benefited by their use. The following, from a reliable author, will 
be found excellent. 
Blood Purifier.- 

^ ounce of spruce bark. ^ ounce of hemlock bark. 

i ounce of sarsaparilla bark. ^ ounce of dandelion root. 

i ounce of burdock root. ^ ounce of yellow dock root, 

1 gallon of water. 

(511) 



512 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Boil one-half hour, strain hot and add 10 drops of oil of 
spruce and sassafras mixed. When cold add ^ pound of brown 
sugar and i cupful of yeast. Let stand two hours in a jar covered 
tight, then bottle. Use this freely; iced it is a pleasant drink. 

Lemons are excellent spring correctives. Press the juice of 1 
lemon in a glass of water and drink one-half one quarter of an 
hour before breakfast. This may be repeated before retiring, 
sweeten very slightly or not at all. Never make practice of 
taking the lemon juice pure without the addition of water, it is too 
strong for the coatings of the stomach. 

Baths. — Hot baths will be found by almost every one more 
invigorating as well as more cleansing than cold. Their effect is 
cooling and refreshing in the hottest day. Use water hot as the 
skin can bear and plenty of good soap. A heavy flannel or hair 
cloth wash-cloth is desirable, to be followed by friction with a hair 
cloth glove or a flesh brush. This will do away with the possibili- 
ty of colds. Evening is usually the preferable time for a bath. Take 
twice a week in winter and once every day in summer ; this should 
not be neglected. The winter flannels, especially if they are slept 
in, should be changed twice a week. A bath of merely tepid water 
will be found enervating and enfeebhng. If the hot bath is thought 
so at times, follow it by a quick plunge into cold water or a 
sponging off with the same, using the flesh brush afterward. Ten 
minutes is sufficient time in which to take a bath. A bath should 
never be taken until at least two hours after a meal or one hour 
before it. 

Cold bathing should never be indulged in if the least chill 
follows the act. An instant glow should be the result, otherwise dis- 
continue at once. A sponge bath answers every purpose besides giv- 
ing less trouble. It should be remembered to use soap with the bath. 
A Bran Bath. — The water should be quite warm, and bran 
should be stirred into it in the proportion of ^ peck to a tub of 
water (no soap is required). Oatmeal is still better on account of 
the oil. Follow it by long friction until the skin shines, this 
brings the blood to the surface and wards off wrinkles, while the 
gluten in the bran softens the tissues. A bran bath should be 
taken onoe a week. 



THE TOILET. 513 

Ammonia is very pleasant to put in bathing water, 1 large 
tablespoonful to a bowl of water; this is refreshing for the neck 
and arms in summer on account of its deodorizing qualities. Use 
for a foot bath also. 

White Toilet Soap. — 1 gallon of soft water, let boil and add 
4 pounds of white linen soap shaved fine, 2 ounces of sal-soda, 2 
ounces of Glauber salts, 1 tablespoonful of spirits of hartshorn. 
Boil all together five minutes, or until well dissolved. Then scent 
to suit with cologne or musk, bergamot, etc. Pour into a buttered 
tin to cool and cut in squares. This will make 12 pounds. 

Liquid Toilet Soapo — 4 quarts of rain water, 4 ounces of 
borax, 4 ounces of baking soda, 2 ounces of ammonia. Mix and 
bottle. Shake before using. Will be found very nice for sensitive 
skins or for those having undue oily secretions of the skin. 

Aids to the Complexion. — The foregoing directions are 
applicable, alike to good and bad complexions, and should be fol- 
lowed by every one wishing to keep the skin clear and wholesome. 
But it must be added that there are many skins which by reason 
of neglect, ill health or lost youth, stand in need of more special 
treatment. Especially does this apply to that coarse and porous 
skin, more noticeably across the cheeks and nose, that tries the 
patience of so many girls and women. Nothing short of a new 
skin will answer in this case. 

Make a mask of white cotton cloth of many folds quilted 
together, leaving openings for nostrils and eyes. The material 
should be one that will retain as much water as possible. Wet 
thoroughly in warm water and put on the face just before retiring, 
wear all night and keep as wet as possible. This wet mask keeps 
the air away from the skin and gives it time to soften. The outer 
cuticle wears off slowly and a fine, smooth surface takes its place, 
but it requires at least eight weeks before this desirable result 
repays the long discomfort. Baths must be carefully attended to, 
and the face not exposed to any sudden changes of atmosphere 
without applying a little cold cream and wearing a thin veil, for 
the new cuticle is very tender at first. 

Paste for a Porous Skin. — A substitute for the toilet 
mask will be found in the following paste. It will be found even 
33 



514 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

quicker in its operation. 3 ounces of finely ground barley or oat- 
meal, 1 ounce of honey, white of 1 egg. Mix to a paste and spread 
thickly over the nose, cheeks and forehead before retiring. Cover 
the portions where the paste is applied with bits of old thin lawn, 
and let remain on all night. Wash off with warm water, first 
dampening and allowing to soften while dressing. Then bathe the 
face with white castile soap and warm water, rubbing on a httle 
cold cream before exposure to the weather. Eepeat this every 
night until the skin grows soft and fine, which will be in about 
three weeks. After that use once a week for some time. Care 
must be taken at the same time to bathe daily. 

Bathing the Face. — Hot milk and water is very nice to 
bathe the face in, freshening the skin and assisting to remove 
wrinkles. Hot water is very beneficial for the face and should be 
used night and morning; it opens the pores and removes a 
great deal of the natural oil, besides tightening the skin, thus 
keeping it firm and less likely to wrinkle. Hot milk and water, 
half and half, may be used instead, if more agreeable. Soap will 
not be necessary in this case. A flannel wash cloth should be 
used, taking a small square, renewing it as often as it grows thick 
and felt-like. This method of treating the face is declared by some to 
be a perfet substitute for any and all cosmetics, leaving the skin 
smooth, rosy and un wrinkled, and will be found beneficial in all 
cases. "Washing the face nightly in hot suds, made from 
pure white Castile soap, or with hot milk, followed by a firm upward 
(never up and down) friction, with a moderately coarse towel 
is the recommended course of treatment for the black specks that 
ruin so many complexions. 

To Whiten the Face and Remove Wrinkles.—! fluid 
ounce of tincture of benzoin, ^ ounce of pure glycerine, 7 ounces of 
distilled rose-water. 

Bathe face, neck and hands with it at night and let dry on. 
Wash off in the morning with soft warm water and a very little 
white Castile soap. This is excellent for the skin in eveiy way. 

Wash for a Sallow Skin. — 1 pint of rain water, 2 drachms 
of iodide of potassium, 1 ounce of glycerine. 

Mix and apply with a sponge once a day. This often works 



THE TOILET. 515 

wonders in skins sallow by inherited disease. Adhere closely to 
the directions given for bathing. 
Cold Cream.— 

2 ounces of oil of sweet almonds. 
1 ounce of pure glycerine. 
^ ounce of spermaceti. 
20 grains of white wax. 
6 drops of oil of rose. 

Melt all together, setting the cup over boihng water, then beat 
until perfectly cold and snowy white. Put up iu glass or China. 
Excellent for face and hands. 

Complexion Wash. — 1 ounce oil of sweet almonds, 1 ounce 
of glycerine, juice of 3 lemons. 

Mix and apply at night. Let dry on, and in the morning 
wash ofiF with very warm water. 

Wash for an Oily Skin. — ^ ounce of powdered borax, 1 
ounce of absolutely pure glycerine, 1 quart of camphor water. 
Mix and use twice a day, morning and evening, letting dry on and 
then, after a few minutes, washing off with rain water. This will 
prevent chapped skin, remove sun-burn and freckles, and keep the 
pores in a good condition. Also it will do away with that annoy- 
ing redness of nose, cheeks and knuckles that afilicts so many. 

Bay-eum or rose-water, or the two half and half, may be used 
to advantage after bathing the face to remove the appearance of 
oiliness. 

A SATURATED SOLUTION of borax is also very nice for an oily 
skin. Use as above. The mild alkali of the borax unites with the 
oily secretions and forms a sort of soap that cleanses the face and 
at the same time frees it from oil. 

Toilet Water for Tan and Freckles.— This will also whiten 
the face. Take ^ pint of rain water, 1 small cupful of real cider 
vinegar, 1 cupful of milk. Mix and bottle. Apply to the face at 
night. Let dry on. In the morning wash off with warm water. 
It will remove tan. 

Lettuce is useful to refine the skin. Break the stems and 
stalks of coarse garden lettuce and rub the milky juice over the 
face at night. In the morning wash off with warm water contain- 



5l6 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

ing a few drops of ammonia. The opium is the refining me- 
dium. 

Lemon juice will usually remove any transient stains on the 
hands. 

Washes for Pimples- — The wash given for an Oily Skin is 
also good for pimples. Apply several times a day and allow it to 
dry on. 

Wash for Pimples (No. II).— Glycerine half and half with 
water. Stir into this powdered sulphur (flower of sulphur). Rub 
this on the face at night and wash off in the morning with soap 
and water, adding a few drops of ammonia. This will also whiten 
the skin, remove the oiliness that troubles some complexions, and 
has the commendation of a celebrated physician. 

Cucumber Pomade. — The French recommend this for re- 
fining and purifying the skin. Prepare as follows: Express the 
juice of fresh cucumbers, bring to the boiling point, skim and bot- 
tle. Take 1 teaspoonful of the juice to 2 teaspoonfuls of water, 
and apply to the face night and morning, letting dry on. 

To Remove Wriukles. — 2^ drachms of essence of turpen- 
tine, 1 drachm of gum-mastic, pulverized; 2 ounces fresh unsalted 
butter. Mix; apply at night and let dry on the face. Wash off 
in the morning with a little warm soap and water. 

To Remove Wrinkles (No. II.)— Bathe the face every night 
in water as hot as can be borne, with a little bi-carbonate of 
soda dissolved therein. Dry the face carefully and anoint it with 
cold cream, sweet cream or sweet oil. This has the recommenda- 
tion of a well-known physician. 

Wash for Black Heads. — 36 grains of sub carbonate of 
soda, 8 ounces of distilled water, 6 drachms of essence of roses. 
Mix and apply with a small sponge after each ablution, using gen- 
tle friction, always upward. 

Wash for Black Heads (No. II).— A physician may effect- 
ually desfroy them by touching each one with acetic acid. A hair 
pencil must be used and the acid only alio ^ed to touch the black spot. 

Freckles* To Remove.— Apply a saturated solution of borax 
in rose-water five or six times a day and allow to dry upon the 
face. This will be successful in mild caseso 



THE TOILET. 517 

Freckles, To Remove (No. II).— Moisten the finger tips 
and dip in finely powdered saltpeter and apply to the freckles. 
Kepeat until freckles are gone. 

Freckles, To Remove (No. III).— Poultice the face lightly, 
or soften with almond paste and ruh a freshly cut lemon over the 
surface. 

Tan. — Make a thick mixture of magnesia and soft rain water. 
Spread all over the face. Let remain on three or four minutes, 
then wash off with Castile soap and tepid water. Kinse the face 
and dry thoroughly. The face should always he dried thoroughly. 

Domestic suggestions, such as bathing hands and face in but- 
termilk, or using vinegar in which grated horse-radish has been 
soaked, or lemon juice, any and all of them frequently prove suc- 
cessful after several applications. 

Sunbura. — Cold sweet cream applied thoroughly on retiring 
is very soothing. Cold cream or lettuce cream. If the face, throat 
and hands are well rubbed with cold cream before exposure, dan- 
ger of sun-burn will be almost done away with. 

Lettuce Cream. — 2 cupfuls of young lettuce, cut fine, wash 
and stir into one cupful of boiling mutton suet, boil a few minutes 
strain, perfume to suit, beat until cold and pack in jars or cups. 
Extra for that redness of the skin and soreness known as sun- 
burn, and very healing. 

Camphor Ice. — 6 tablespoonfuls of boiling hot mutton suet, stir 
in 1 tablespoonful glycerine, 1 tablespoonful powdered camphor, 1 
tablespoonful olive oil. Eemove from the fire and stir until cold. 
Pack in small boxes or put in little molds. Excellent for chapped 
hands, lips, etc. 

Bruises. — Rubbing a bruise in sweet oil and then in spirits 
of turpentine will usually prevent the unsightly black and blue 
spot. Dustmg this moistened surface with flesh colored powder 
will finish the work. Also see page 494. 

Moth Patches- — 1 tablespoonful of flour of sulphur in a pint 
bottle of rum. Apply to the spots at night. This will cause them 
to disappear in two or three weeks. The moth patch is a vegetable 
fungus, and the sulphur is destructive to it. Carefully wash off in 



5l8 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

the morning. Of course this remedy will only succeed where the 
moth is not the immediate result of some bodily condition. 

Scars. — Cocoanut oil, or hen's oil, applied to a scar and rubbed 
gently for five minutes afc a time, several times a day, will entirely 
obliterate a scar if commenced from the time the burn heals. The 
rubbing will loosen the skin and flesh from bone and muscle and 
cause thorough circulation. Even where the scar is of long stand- 
ing this will be of much assistance, and perseverance will work 
wonders in scars left by cut, burn or bruise. 

Face Powders. — Entire cleanliness is necessary in applying. 
The first coating of powder should always be thoroughly cleansed 
from the face with water before a new coating is given, thus pre- 
venting the crust that naturally forms where one layer of powder 
after another is put on during the day. 

Simple powders are always the best. Common prepared chalk 
subjected to baking in a moderate oven, or finely powdered pearl 
starch, are among the best. Pure French chalk is harmless, so is 
KOSE POWDER prepared from French chalk, and tinted with car- 
mine and yellow ocher to a perfect flesh tint, or Violet powder, 
consisting of 3 parts of finely powdered pearl starch to 1 part 
orris root, powdered. Eice flour is often substituted for the starch. 
This is used, not only for the face, but is found convenient for 
infants. Arrowroot may be substituted for starch. 

To APPLY POWDER. — Aiiother way is to take refined chalk in 
little pellets. See that the skin is clean and cool, then wrap a 
pellet of the chalk in coarse linen cloth and crush in water. Rub 
well between the fingers and wash quickly over the face. The wet 
powder oozes through the cloth in its finest state. When the face 
is dry remove all superfluous powder lightly. 

Rose Powder. — Oil of rose, 24 drops; carmine or rose pink, 
12 grains; rice flour, very fine, 1 pound. Mix. Harmless and 
good. 

Liquid Face Powders, or Cosmetic Washes.— Balm of 
Beauty — 1 ounce of glycerine, 1 ounce of alcohol, ^ ounce of tinc- 
ture of benzoin, 2 ounces pure prepared chalk, 1 grain of carmine 
will give it a flesh tint if desired. Shake well and apply to the 
f'Koe with a soft sponge. When thoroughly dry carefully remove 



THE TOILET. 519 

any superfluous traces, and the result will be very satisfactory 
where powder has ceased to avail. 

Creaui of Roses. — 3 ounces oxide of zinc, ^ ounce glycerine, 
^ pint rose-water, ^ pint rain water, 2 or 3 grains of carmine will 
give a flesh tint. Use as above. 

Skin Irritations, Mosquito Bites, etc.— l teaspoonful car- 
bolic acid, 1 pint rose-water. Mosquito bites, heat, irruptions, will 
yield to the magical influence of this wash, which may be used for 
grown people or invalids, or take 50 drops of carbolic acid and mix 
with 1 ounce of glycerine. Apj)ly this at night, and it will not 
only prove a perfect prevention from mosquitoes, but will sooth 
and heal those already received, and remove their unsightly blotches. 
Diluted, it will serve the same purpose for infants. Two drops of 
oil of roses may be added if the odor is unbearable. 

Depilatories (for the removal of superfluous hair). — Per- 
haps the most surely effective method is to pull the hair out by the 
roots. The best instrument for this purpose is a stick of resin, 
tempered with wax, with the addition of a strong anodyne. 

Tweezers may also be used to removo the hair, though this 
is slower and more painful. Care should be taken not to break off 
the hairs in the process, as this renders them harsh and stiff. 
Continual pulling will, in the end, extirpate the obnoxious growth 
of hair. To keep the hair from growing, bathe the part often with 
strong camphor or clear ammonia. The latter will serve as a 
depilatory, but is painful and should be washed oflfat once. Strong 
washes of pearlash will kill the poor scattering hair at the back 
of the neck and on the forehead. All of these applications tend 
to harden the skin, and sweet oil or vaseline should be well rubbed 
in after their use. 

Whitening and clearing the arms of hair may be attained by 
bathing them daily for two minutes in a hot solution of chloride of 
lime in the proportion of 2 tablespoonfuls of the lime to a quart of 
hot water. Rinse carefully in vinegar and water, the acid kills the 
lime, after which rub them with sweet oil to soften the skin. Do 
not inhale the fumes of this. It is best to bathe them before an 
open window. 

Depilatory (No. II). — 1 ounce sulphuret barium. Mix rapidly 



520 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

into a paste with a little[finely powdered starch, or flour and warm 
water. Apply it to the superfluous hair, let remain a few minutes, 
not more than five, and wash off with warm water. If the skin 
is left tender, rub with sweet oil, cold cream or vaseline. Eepeat 
until the groAvth ceases. It is a poisonous article, and great care 
must be taken in its use. Make a portion of the sulphuret into a 
strong solution at a time, and stir in the flour, or starch, to form 
the paste as wanted. 

"THR HANDS. 

To SOFTEN the hands and remove stains, put a couple of hand- 
fuls of bran in a bowl of hot soap suds, keep the hands in this, 
brushing, rubbing and soaking them thoroughly' in the warm 
mixture, which should be of the consistency of thin gruel. This 
is healing and softening. Cold boiled potatoes will cleanse the 
hands and keep the skin soft and healthy. 

To REMOVE STAINS On the hands, lemon juice is frequently suffi- 
cient, also the above baths. They may be touched with oxalic 
acid successfully for this, but it is rank poison. Einse the hands 
after using it, and rub glycerine, or cold cream, on the spot. Kub- 
bing the hands in fresh tomato pavings will remove apple and 
potato stains. 

Indian meal mixed with lemon juice, or good cider vinegar, is 
very soothing for hands roughened by cold or labor. It will also 
remove stains. Keep some prepared in a bowl. Rub the hands in 
this, rinse thoroughly, rub in a few drops of glycerine and dry. 
This is an excellent preparation for chapped hands, and will 
remove the unpleasant effects resulting from keeping the hands in 
soft soap, or other strong soap suds. The acid destroys the effect 
of the alkali. 

Glycerine Preparation. — 2 ounces of pure glycerine, juice 
of one lemon. Mix and apply to the hands. Shake well before 
using. This will heal and whiten the hands. 

Cosmetic Gloves. — These are designed to soften and whiten 
the hands, and are worn at night. Take a pair of strong kid or 
dog-skin gloves and brush over the inside with the following mix- 
ture, or else rub plentifully over the hands and draw on the gloves. 
Fresh should be put on every night, and two or three weeks is as 



THE TOILET. 521 

long as one pair of gloves should be used. They should be loosely 
fitting. Take equal quantities of spermaceti and pure bees-wax. 
Scrape fine, cover with sweet oil and simmer until it becomes 
liquid. Use a small china cup or jar; set in a vessel of boiling 
water. Add a few drops of rose-water and blend thoroughly. 
Take from the fire and let it form in the same cup. In the morn- 
ing wash the hands with warm water and oat-meal or almond 
powder, not soap, and a manifest improvement in color and texture 
will be the result- 

Filiser Nails. — Trim evenly and prettily, a very little deeper 
in the center. Do not leave them too long. Do not bite them off. 
If children are inclined to do this, put extract of quassia on the 
finger tips, and the extreme bitter will soon break up the habit. 
Cleanse the nails every day with a nail-brush, which should be 
soft instead of harsh and stiff, thus avoiding the use of a knife in 
cleaning, which roughens the under surface and causes dust to ad- 
here more readily. Kub the nails with a coarse towel, not only 
for the polish, but to keep the skin of the fingers from growing up 
on them in unsightly ridges. Expose the white half-moon or 
lunette at the root as much as possible, as this lengthens the oval 
outline of the nail. 

Finger Nail Polish. — Pure oxide of zinc tinted with carmine 
and perfumed to suit. Apply by rubbing on the nail with the 
finger or a nail-pohsher covered with leather (chamois). It 
renders the surface smooth, bright and pink. It need not be used 
too often. It also tinges the finger tips daintily. 

Coloring for Lips. — Take the following Hand Pomade and 
add Alkanet powder, until color suits; it is dehcate and harmless. 
2 ounces oil of sweet almonds; 1 ounce spennaceti; ^ ounce rice 
flour. Heat over slow fire, stir until cold. Add few drops of oil 
of rose. 

Fever Blisters. — At the first symptoms touch the affected 
spot carefully with the following preparation every few hours : 10 
drops carbolic acid, 1 teaspoonful glycerine, 2 drops oil of roses. 
Never rub the sore spot to irritate it. 

Lip Salves. — Cold cream, glycerine, lettuce cream, etc., are 
all good for roughened and cracked lips. 



522 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

HAIR. 

In washing the hair apply the Hquid with a small sponge, part- 
ing the hair and moistening the scalp, avoiding the tresses as 
much as possible. Einse in the same manner. Very mild soap 
and soft water may be used, carefully rinsing, or the yolk of an 
egg may be beaten in a cupful of warm water. Apply and rinse 
as before. Still better, the hair may be rinsed with a mixture of 
half-and-half bay-rum and rose-water. Hair washes are also use- 
ful. Do not use a fine-tooth comb. It causes an increased growth 
of dandruff and injures the hair. 

Hair Wash. — 1 ounce borax, ^ ounce camphor. Powder and 
dissolve in quart of boiling water. Perfume to suit. When cool 
it is ready for use. If it leaves the hair at all harsh or dry, 3 or 4 
teaspoonfuls of pure glycerine may be added. Dampen the scalp 
often with this. It will sometimes prevent the hair falling out 
and will keep the skin clean and wholesome. 

To Prevent Hair Falling Out.— Ammonia is an effectual 
stimulant. Washing the scalp often in soft water containing am- 
monia (2 spoonfuls to a large basin of water), use sponge as before 
directed, will often prove successful without any other aid. A tea- 
spoonful of glycerine added to the water will prevent any harsh- 
ness of the hair from its use. The tips of the hair should be 
trimmed once a month, not by cutting the whole promiscuously, 
but by carefully examining and cutting the tip from every hair that 
seems dead or split. The following remedies are also recom- 
mended to prevent the hair from falling : 

No. I. — Ammonia, 1 ounce; rosemary water, 1 ounce; glyc- 
erine, 1 ounce; cantharides, 1 drachm; rose-water, 4 ounces. 
Wet the scalp with cold water, then apply this wash and rub 
briskly with a soft towel. 

No. II. — 1 pint of alcohol, ^ ounce oil of mace. A few drops 
perfumery, or use the deodorized alcohol. Oil of mace is a more 
powerful restorative for the hair than cantharides. Pour a little 
in a raucer and apply to the scalp with a medium brush. Do not 
brush too much. Do this three times a day for weeks, and if the 
head has inclining to baldness, continue once a day for some time 



THE TOII.ET. 523 

longer. This has been known to create a new growth on bald 
heads. Wash the head often in cold water. This method is highly 
recommended by a competent authority. 

Hair Dye. — 4 ounces butternut hulls. Infuse in 1 quart 
water. To this add ^ ounce copperas. Apply every two or three 
days with a hair-brush. Cleanse the hair first with weak am- 
monia and water. This will give brown and black dyes according 
to the strength of the decoction. Dampening the hair daily in 
strong cold tea or strong cold coflfee will show a marked change in 
a few days, the hair becoming darker and softer. 
Ambrosial Hair Tonic and Dye.— 

1 ounce castor oil. 1 ounce bay-rum. 

^ ounce oil citronelle. 1 drachm oil bergamot. 

1 ounce ammonia. ^ ounce glycerine (pure). 

8 ounces strong sage tea made with soft water. 

1 quart alcohol. 1 pint of soft water. 

Rub into the scalp well. 

Bandoline for Curling or Crimping. — 2 ounces of borax, 1 
drachm of gnm arable, 1^ pints boiling water. Stir and when 
dissolved add 2 teaspoonfuls spirits of camphor. Bottle and keep 
on the toilet table. To use, put the curls or crimps up in papers 
or pins, dampen with bandoline and leave up over night, or until 
thoroughly dry. This will be found to resist the warmest day. 

Bandoline, (No. II). — 1 tablespoonful bruised quince seeds, 
1 pint soft rain water. Simmer gently down to | of a p^t. A 
tablespoonful or two of alcohol may be added and enough cologne 
to give a pleasant odor. Use as above. 

The Beauty of the eye, whether dark or light, but especially in 
light orbs, depends upon dark brows and heavy dark lashes; these 
will beautify the palest eye. 

To TmcKEN THE Eyebrows, gently brush in every other night a 
few drops of oil of cajeput, always brushing from the nose out- 
ward. Remove with tweezers any hairs that by their position or 
irregularity injure the perfect outline that the brow should possess. 



524 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

To Deepen their Color. — Take the dark pomatum pencil to be 
bought at all large perfumers, and pencil carefully until the desired 
tint is obtained. More accessible still is the needle point smoked 
in the lamp or the burned match. 

Cinders in the Eyes. — A simple and effective cure may be 
found in 1 or 2 grains of flaxseed which can be placed in the eye 
without pain or injury. As they dissolve, a glutinous substance is 
formed, which envelopes any foreign body that may be under the 
lid and the whole is easily washed out. A dozen or so of these 
seeds should constitute a part of every traveler's outfit. 

Eye Lashes should be watched and any broken or weak hairs 
carefully trimmed. The eyes themselves should be kept in per- 
fect health and free from any inflammation. Then the base of the 
lashes should be anointed with a very little oil of cajeput on a 
small camel's hair brush. This course faithfully preserved will 
soon show a marked difference. 

To Darken the Eyelashes use a little diluted India ink. 
These operations on the lashes had best be conducted by a second 
person. The dye given below is very good. 

Coloring for Eyebrows, Lashes and Hair. — 1 ounce of walnut 
bark (this can be had at the druggists) to 1 pint of water. Boil 
1 hour slowly, add a piece of alum the size of a large hazel-nut to 
set the dye. Apply to the eyebrows and lashes with a little camel's 
hair brush, such as is used for water- color painting, or with a 
sponge to the hair. Protect the pillows with an old handkerchief. 
Dark eyebrows darken and improve the very palest eyes. 

The Tooth Brush should not be too stiff. 

Toothpicks are indispensable and the best is a slender, well- 
sharpened quill. Avoid metallic ones. Still another adjunct to their 
care is a piece of white floss silk (dentist's floss), fold it back and 
forth two or three times and wax. Draw this between every sin- 
gle tonth at least once a day and dentist's bills will be marvelously 
lessened. The closer the teeth are together, the greater the neces- 
sity for its use. If the gums bleed shghtly at first it makes no 
difference. 



THE TOILET. 525 

Powdered Charcoal easily removes stains and makes the teeth 
white, though it occasionally works under the gums. 

To Clean and Polish the Teeth. — Dip the end of a match, 
breaking off the sulphur part, in powdered pumice stone and rub 
above and between and under the teeth until every trace of foreign 
accumulation has been removed. Finish by rubbing the face and 
crown of the tooth with a silk handkerchief dipped in the powder. 

Tooth Wash. — 2 ounces of borax dissolved in 3 pints of boil- 
ing water; before it is cold add 1 teaspoonful of tincture of myrrh, 
1 tablespoonful of spirits of camphor. Bottle. When wanted for 
use, mix 1 tablespoonful of this with twice the amount of warm 
water and apply daily with a soft brush. It will preserve the teeth, 
extirpate all tartarous adhesion, arrest decay and make the teeth 
pearly white. Never use a tooth wash but once a day. The teeth 
should be brushed several times, but pure water should answer the 
remainder of the time. The Hair Wash given before, diluted with 
warm water, makes an excellent tooth wash. 

Tooth Powders. — Equal parts of white Castile soap grated 
fine, and prepared chalk, precipitated. Mix and use as a tooth 
powder. The chalk may be used alone and is very nice, or the 
brush may be rubbed on white Castile soap and then dipped in the 
chalk. 

The above may be wet to a paste with 1 part camphor and 6 
parts soft water. Work smooth; put in a wide-mouthed bottle 
and cork. Use with a brush. Charcoal may be mixed with honey 
if it is used for a dentifrice. 

Unhealthy Gums. — 20 drops carbohc acid, 2 drachms spirits 
of wine, 6 ounces distilled water. Use first a soft tooth brush with 
water, after which pour a little of the lotion on the brush and use. 
In a very short time the gums become less tender, and any impurity 
of the breath will be removed. Perfume the lotion slightly if 
wished, but very slightly. 

Impure Breath. — To secure a sweet breath dissolve a small 
piece of liquorice in the mouth after the use of the tooth brush. 
This sweetens the mouth and stomach. Keep some of it broken 



526 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

up in a glass bottle on the toilet table; put a piece in the mouth at 
bed time also. 

If the teeth are decayed, wash the mouth with tincture of 
myrrh dilluted with a little water, a bit of burned alum kept in 
the mouth at night is a help to sweeten the breath also ; or take 
roasted coffee grains, conceal the odor of onions, etc., also a bit of 
Canada snake root. 

Toothache Drops. — 1 ounce of alcohol (33 degrees), 4 grains 
of camphor, 20 grains of opium in powder, 80 drops of oil of 
cloves. Sure. Keep on hand. 

Tincture of Benzoin. — A few drops on cotton, pressed into 
the decayed tooth, is a sure cure for toothache. 

Exercise, friction, flesh brush, etc., will give warm, wholesome 
feet that will not need heated soap-stones to insure comfort and 
health. Wrap the feet, before retiring, in flannels instead of heat- 
ing by artificial appliances. In extreme cases give the feet a warm 
bath at night, to which a little mustard has been added to stimu- 
late, follow this with a dash of cold water, dry with coarse crash 
and use the flesh brush. After such a bath, whether or not it be 
followed by the dash of cold water, draw on fresh well warmed 
stockings to retain the heat. 

A solution of permanganate of potassium in the proportion of 
10 grains to 1 pint of warm water may be used for bathing the feet 
just before retiring if there exists any unpleasant odor. 

Corns. — Make a shield of buckskin with an opening cut in it 
the size of the corn. Touch the exposed part with carbolic acid, 
or take common sticking plaster, cut in the same form a circle with 
a small circle cut from it. Apply several of these, one over the 
other, leaving the corn exposed, then in the opening drop a satu- 
rated solution of caustic soda and cover with a piece of the plaster. 
Renew this every three or four days, and the corn will be gone in a 
couple of weeks or less, or pursue the same plan with the carbolic 
acid. 

Aqua Ammonia applied as often as possible, is almost a cer- 
tain cure. 



THE TOILET. 527 

Paring Corns should be done with a razor at regular inter- 
vals. Eubbing with pumice stone is safer than paring. 

Soft Corns may have diluted carbolic acid used upon them. 
To touch them frequently with iodine is good. 

Bnnions. — On the jfirst sign of their appearance wear a soft 
hollow ring of rubber to prevent pressure of the shoe. 

FiKST. — Carbolic acid, either in full strength or diluted, may 
be used for them twice a day. 

Second. — Painting with iodine is also resorted to. 
• TmRD. — Thicken the yolk of 1 egg with salt and bind on. 
Poulticing must be resorted to if the bunion is too much inflamed. 

Ingrowing Nails. — Heat a small piece of mutton tallow in 
the bowl of a spoon, hold over a lamp until boiling hot, and pour 
on the sore place as much as possible between the nail and flesh. 
It will give instant relief, and one application often cures. If not, 
repeat. 

Let the nail grow even with the end of the toe and cut square 
across, and ingrowing nails will be a thing of the past. 

Chilblains. — 1 drachm or 1 teaspoonful ammonia, strong; 6 
ounces rain water. Mix in a bottle. Wet 2 or 3 folds of mushn 
with this mixture, bind on the inflamed part or parts for the night. 
Eepeat this two nights ; it gives great relief. 

Second. — Turpentine often gives relief. 

Third. — Paint the parts with a mixture of equal parts of 
iodine and ammonia. Very good. 

PRRFUMRS. 
Common Cologne.— 

1 drachm oil of bergamot. 
1 drachm oil lavender. 
1 drachm oil lemon. 
10 drops oil of rose. 
10 drops 'oil of jasmine. 
1 ounce essence ambergris. 
1 pint spirits of wine. 
Mix and let stand in a cool place for a month. 



528 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

Eau de Cologne.— 

Alcohol, 8 pints. Eose-water, 1 pint. 

Orange flower water, ^ pint. Oil of verbena, 2 ounces. 
Oil of citronella, 2 ounces. Oil of heliotrope, 2 ounces. 
Oil of geranium, 2 ounces. Oil of lemon, 2 ounces. 
Oil of jasmine, 2 ounces. Oil of cedrat, 2 ounces. 
Oil of nutmegs, 1 ounce. 
Mix and filter twice. Compound tincture of benzoin just 
enough to give the whole a rich color. 

Lavender Water. — Oil lavender, 2 ounces; camphor, ^ 
ounce; water, 4 ounces; alcohol, 2 pints. 

Bay Rum. — ^ gallon alcohol, ^ ounce of oil of bay. Take 
out 1 pint of the alcohol and dissolve the oil in it; then pour back 
into the other alcohol and add 1 quart of soft water. It can be 
perfumed if wished. 

SAGHRT POWDRRS. 

Lavender Powder. — 1 pound powdered lavender, ^ pound gum 
benzoin powdered, 1-6 ounce oil of lavender. Mix. 

Heliotrope. — ^ pound rose leaves, 2 ounces tonquin, ground 
fine; | pound pulverized orris root, 1 ounce vanilla, ^ grain musk, 
2 drops otto of almonds. Mix by sifting through a coarse sieve. 

Tincture of Eoses. — Fill a wide-mouthed bottle with freshly 
gathered rose leaves. Pour spirits of wine over them, cork the 
bottle and let stand until required for use; its perfume is nearly 
equal to ottar of roses. 




Ml^QEhliMMEQ"^^. 



INDELIBLE MAEKING INK.— 100 grains nitrate of silver, 
1 ounce distilled water, 2 drachms gum arabic, ] scruple sap 
green or indigo. Mix. This is the best indelible ink made. 

Everlasting Black Ink. — 2 gallons of rain water, I pound 
gum arabic, ^ pound copperas, | pound powdered nut-galls, 
^ pound of brown sugar. Bruise all and mix. This will keep 
writing good for hundreds of years, and is useful in copying deeds, 
etc. Shake the mixture occasionally for the first ten days. 

Common Black Ink. — 1 ounce extract of logwood; pour 
over it 2 quarts of boiling water, when dissolved add 1 drachm of 
yellow chromate of potassa. Do not put in old ink bottles, as 
other ink decomposes it. Keep it from freezing. This will cost 
ten cents. 

Red Ink. — No. 40 carmine 6 grains, No. 6 or 8 carmine 5 
grains, gum arabic a piece the size of two peas. Put in an ounce 
vial and fill up with soft water. 

Blue Ink. — Sulphate of indigo and soft water. Color to 
suit. 

Copying" Ink may be made from common violet writing ink 
by the addition of 6 parts of glycerine to 8 parts of ink; using 
only 5 parts of glycerine to 8 parts of the ink and it will copy well 
in fifteen minutes after it has been used. With fine white copying 
paper this ink will copy well without the use of a press. 

Magic Copying Paper (Black Paper). — Lamp black mixed . 
with cold lard to form a thick paste. Apply to the paper with a 
bit of cloth. Then take a flannel cloth and rub until the color 
ceases to come off. 

Ked Paper. — Venetian red, 'mixed with lard. Apply in the 
same way. 

34 (529) 



530 THREE MEALS A DAY 

Blue Paper. — Piassian blue mixed with lard. Apply in the 
same way. 

Green Paper. — Clirome green, mixed with lard. Apply same 
way. 

These sheets, any of them, alternated with writing paper, and 
the first sheet of writing papar written on in the usual manner with 
a solid pen, will produce two or three copies of a letter at once. 

Invisible Ink. — Use 1 teaspoonful of white sugar dissolved 
in ^ cupful of boiling water, or use sweet milk. Write with it 
in the ordinary manner. Holding to the fire will turn the ink 
brown so that it may be read, the heat affecting the saccharine 
matter. 

Paste for Scrap Books.— 1|^ teaspoonfuls of pounded alum 
dissolved in 1 pint of cold water. Rub a tablespoonful of flour 
smooth in a little water. Bring the alum water to a boil and stir 
in the flour, let boil up, add a few drops of oil of cloves, or a few 
whole cloves. The alum prevents souring, the oil of cloves does 
away with mold. This is better than mucilage, as it does not in- 
jure the paper. 

Boiled flour paste, plain, may be made with red pepper tea 
instead of pure water, and will be free from the depredations of 
mice and insect pests. 

Mucilage (Home-made). — Boil the gum that exudes from cherry 
trees in soft water until it is the proper consistency. This is pref- 
erable to that for sale. 

Cement for China. — Take a very thick solution of gum 
arable in water, and stir in plaster of Paris until the mixture be- 
comes of the proper consistency. Apply it with a brush to the 
fractured edges of the China and stick them together. In three 
days the article cannot be broken in the same place. 

Invisible Cement for Glassware. — Melt a little isinglass in 
spirits of wine, enough to cover; add a very little water; warm 
gently over a moderate fire. When thoroughly melted and mixed 
it will form a transparent glue which will re-unite broken glass 60 
firmly and nicely that the jointing will be scarcely perceptible. 

Indestructible Cement for Stone Jars, Wash-boilers, Etc. 
— This cement will resist the action of hot or cold water, acids 



MISCELLANEOUS. 53 1 

and almost any degree of heat. Very convenient for milk-pans or 
jars, wash-boilers, etc. Mix litharge and glycerine together to the 
consistency of very thick cream, or even soft putty and apply. The 
article should not be used until the cement has hardened, 
which will require from one day to a week, according to tlie amount 
used. It is really an invaluable article. Make only as required. 

To Clean Hair-brushes. — Wash in borax water. Do not 
wet the frame. Rinse and hang up to dry by a string tied to the 
handle. Water with a teaspoonful of ammonia in is still better. 
Rinse and hang up. 

Cranberries, To Keep. — Put in a keg of water and they 
will keep all winter. 

Lemons, To Keep. — Put in water. Change once a week. 
Will keep a long time. 

To Polish Tortoise Shell— Rub in rouge powder with a 
bit of soft cloth. Rub afterward with the hand. 

To Clean Gold Chains. — Put the chain in a small glass 
bottle with warm water, some pulverized chalk and a little 
grated Castile soap. Cork the bottle and shake vigorously. Rinse 
in clear cold water, wipe on a towel and the polish will be surprising. 

To Remove Ink from paper or engravings, put | pound of 
chloride of lime to 1 quart of soft water. Shake and let stand 
twenty-four hours, then strain through a cotton cloth. To 1 ounce 
of this lime water add 1 teaspoonful of acetic acid. Apply to the 
blot and the ink will disappear. Absorb the moisture with blot- 
ting paper. The remainder may be bottled, closely corked and set 
aside for future use. 

To Remove Grease Spots from books, papers or engravings. 
Apply French chalk, pulverized, to each side of the spot. Close 
the book or put a weight on the engraving. Rub oflf carefully the 
next day. Repeat the operation if necessary. Lay a blotting 
paper over and apply heat if necessary. Common chalk can be 
used, but is not nearly as successful. 

To Remove Berry Stains from books or engravings. If 
one is so unfortunate as to crush a berry on a book or engraving, 
light a brimstone match and let the fume come in contact with the 
stain, and it will disappear as by magic. 



532 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

To Prepare Wooden Pails for Use.— Give the inside of a new 
wooden pail 3 coats of copal varnish before using, and it will not 
water-soak nor give a disagreeable flavor to water kept in it. 

To Remove Taste h'om New Wooden Vessels,— Scald with 
boiling water; dissolve some pearl-ash or sal-soda in lukewarm 
water; wash well with the solution. Scald again before using. 

To Preserve Gilt Frames. — Cover them when new with a 
coat of white varnish. All specks can then be washed off with 
water without injury. This is an invaluable idea. 

To Harden the Soles of Boots and Shoes.— Apply a coat of 
gum-copal varnish ; let dry and give two more. This will double 
the wearing power of the sole-leather. Give an occasional coat 
as it seems to wear. For heavy boots two or three coats of gas- 
tar will render them almost impervious to damp, besides toughen- 
ing and hardening the leather. 

Liquid Glue, (Always Eeady). — Fill a glass jar with broken 
glue of the best quality; then fill up with acetic acid. Set the 
jar in hot water for a few hours until the glue melts. The result 
will be an excellent glue, always ready. 

Liquid Glue, (II). — 3 quarts soft water, 1| pounds white 
glue. Heat by steam or as above. Then add 8 ounces of shellac 
mixed with 4 ounces dry white lead. Lastly, 1 ounce liquid am- 
monia. Bottle while warm. This will make 180 bottles (i oz.). 
Can be sold at a nice profit. China, etc., can be mended. 

Umbrellas, to Preserve.— Put umbrellas in the rack to dry 
with the handles down, that water may not run down and rust the 
wires. 

To Destroy Ant-beds in Lawns. — Stir up and pour on boil- 
ing water. 

To Kill Moss, Weeds and Earth Worms in Lawns.— Pul- 
verize fresh lime ; mix half-and-half with fresh pulverized earth 
or leached ashes and sprinkle over the lawn. This is certain for 
the moss and earth-worms. A sprinkling of brine will kill grass; 
and salt sprinkled on grass springing up in tiie crevices of stone 
or brick walks will destroy it. 

Renovating Plush and Aniline Dyed Goods that have faded 
from exposure to light may be accomplished by sponging with 



MISCELLANEOUS. 533 

chloroform. Commercial chloroform will answer and is much 
cheaper. 

To Drive Nails and Screws Into Hard Wood.— Soap the 
points and no resistance will be met, or dip in oil or grease. 

Fire Kindlers. — To 1 pound of resin put 3 ounces of tallow. 
Melt together over a slow heat. When hot stir in fine saw-dust 
until very thick. Sprinkle a board with fine saw-dust and spread 
the mixture immediately over it to the thickness of one inch. 
When cold break into lumps one inch square. To do this con- 
veniently grease the edge of a thin board, and while the mixture 
is warm mark the kindling off in squares, pressing in deep. When 
cold they will break off nicely. There is a good profit in selling 
this. 

Bats and Mice. — Peppermint sprigs laid around shelves and 
other places where mice frequent will drive them away. Chloride 
of lime sprinkled around wherever rats or mice frequent will 
drive them away. Keep it in a bottle corked. 

Ants and Roaches. — Scatter powdered borax in their haunts 
and they will disappear. To free canary birds from mites, wash 
every part of the cage and perches and the hook and paint behind 
the hook with a strong solution of borax water. 

Second. — Ants may be driven away as follows: Mix 1 tea- 
spoonful of tartar emetic with 1 teaspoonf ul of sugar. Put in a 
saucer and set where the ants are troublesome. One day will 
drive them away. Put in different places where they come. Fleas 
may be (Iriven away by scattering about the localities troubled 
either lime or Cayenne pepper. 

To Fill Pin-cushions. — Use hair-combings which do not be- 
come damp. Dried coffee gi-ounds are also nice, as they neither 
gather moisture nor rust. 

To Gean Plaster of Paris Figures.— Use toilet soap suds 
and a shaving-brush. Rinse well. Dipping them in a strong 
solution of alum-water will give them the appearance of alabaster. 

To Clean Old China and Majolica.— The little cracks and 
checks in china, majolica and earthenware will disappear and the 
dish look as good as new if boiled in milk. 

India Rubber Cement.— Dissolve gutta-percha, cut in bits.in 



534 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

benzine until it is the consistency of a thin mucilage. Let stand 
a few days. Clean the boots before using. Wet the patch with 
the cement and apply. Heat the cement before using by putting 
the bottle in hot water. 

Crockery Cement.— Stir freshly slaked lime in with the 
white of an egg until it is a paste. Apply to the edges and let 
dry at least three days. This will answer for marble as well as 
glass, china, etc. 

To Cut Glass Bottles. — Useless bottles may be turned into 
jelly glasses and jars by cutting off the top down to any required 
depth. Take common cotton cord and wrap two or three times 
around the bottle, a very little below where it is to be divided. 
Drop alcohol slowly on the cord imtil it is well saturated, then 
ignite with a match. When the flame has about died out, pour on 
a very little cold water, and it will immediately separate as 
smoothly as if cut. 

To Examine Wells.— Take a looking-glass at least a foot 
square and at morning or evening turn the slanting rays of the 
sun down into the well. Whatever impurities it contains may be 
readily seen and easily removed from an ordinary open well. This 
should be done often, as any impurity may be a source of serious 
illness in the family. A small fish put in the well will clear it of 
worms. 

To Preserve Fur Robes from Moths.— Dissolve ^ ounce of 
camphor in 1 pint of alcohol and spray the robes with this before 
putting up. 

To Cool Water without Ice.— Fill a jug or jar with water, 
cover it with several layers of carpet or other coarse cloth; satur- 
ate this with water. Keep in a cool, windy, shady place. The 
evaporation of a wet wrapper will absorb enough heat to keep 
water pleasantly cool. 

To Keep Butter without Ice.— Put on a plate, cover with 
a crock and proceed as above. 

To Keep Milk without Ice.— Fit a fine wire gauze lid to a 
tin pail, wrap as above and set in a raised shady window. This 
will be found purer and sweeter than milk kept iu the majority of 
refrigerators. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 53-;, 

To Keep Refrigerators Pure. — Wash out the closets once a 
week with sal-soda and cold water. 

To Cleanse a Sponge. — Let it lie twelve hours in milk, and 
then rinse in cold water. 

To Extrjict Rusted Screws. — Heat a poker or a rod of iron 
(if flat at the end, so much better) imtil red-hot, apply two or 
three minutes to the head of the rusted screw, and its withdrawal 
with a screw-driver will be as easy as possible. 

Fly-Poison. — Boil 4 ounces of quassia chips in 1 pint of 
water. When cold, strain and add enough cold water to make out 
the pint, also 2 ounces of alcohol. Bottle and cork. To use, pour 
a little in saucers, sweeten slightly with molasses and set where 
most needed. This is poison to flies, but harmless to people. 

Fly-paper. — Mix together equal parts, by measure, of melted 
resin and castor oil. Stir until thoroughly mixed, which will take 
only a minute. While yet a little* warm spread thin and evenly 
on any strong paper that is not porous, foolscap, writing papers, 
catalogue covers, show bills, etc. Spread with a case knife slight- 
ly warmed. Leave a narrow border to handle with. Lay the 
papers on tables, shelves, or any spare place where flies are numer- 
ous. They will soon cover the papers. When the papers are 
covered, put in the stove and replace with another one. Be sure 
to use no water. 

Coal Ashes for Currant Bushes.— A mulching of coal ashes 
around currant bushes is recommended as a preventive of the rav- 
ages of the currant worm. They have a power of absorption 
almost equal to charcoal. Thrown where they can absorb the 
waste liquids of the house, they will be found invaluable for dig- 
ging around trees or used to enrich the ground for early garden 
vegetables or raked thinly and carefully over the lawn. 

To Thaw Frozen Pumps. — Insert a section of small lead pipe 
the length of the frozen part and pour in hot water by the means 
of a funnel. The pipe will sink at the rate of one foot per minute. 
This is quicker than salt or heated iron rods. 

To Purify Cisterns where the water has an unpleasant 
odor, suspend in the water a muslin cloth containing one or more 
pounds of charcoal. 



536 THREE MEALS A DAY. 

To Keep Dried Fruit from Insects. — Sprinkle with pow- 
dered sassafras as packed, this will keep out worms. If they have 
already made their aj)pearance, put in a moderate oven for fifteen 
minutes. This is certain. 

To Loosen Glass Stoppers. — Dip the tip of a feather in oil 
and rub aroimd the stopper close to the mouth of the bottle. Put 
the bottle near the fire. The heat will cause the oil to run down 
between the stopper and the bottle. When warm, strike the bottle 
gently on both sides wdth a bit of wood. The stopper will loosen. 
If not, repeat the process. 

To Color a Hair Switch Brown. — 1 cupful of green tea, 4 
tablespooufuls of iron filings. Steep, strain, return to the stove in 
a rusty tin or iron dish. Have the switch washed clean, put in 
the dye, of which there should be just enough to cover well, let 
heat slowly until the desired shade. 

Second. Use 1 cupful of grSund coffee and pursue the same 
course as before. Bits of rusty iron or nails can be substituted 
for iron filings. 

To Feed Cows Turnips and Potatoes.— Do it immediately 
after milking aud there will be no unpleasant flavor given to the 
milk. 

Cider made from early apples has not good keeping qualities. 

To Keep Honey flfom Candying. — Boil the strained honey 
gently; skim clear. 

Mending Tinware. — Fill a small bottle two-thirds fuU of 
muriatic acid. Put in all the bits of zinc (an old wash board will 
answer) it will dissolve. Add a crumb of sal-ammonia and fill up 
with soft water. Wet the spot with the acid, apply a piece of 
sheet zinc and hold a lighted candle underneath ; or buy solders 
apply the acid as above and drop melted solder on the spot. 



IJV[0EX. 



OTHE^ X2:iTOHE?IV. 



PAGE. 

ASPAEAGUS.— On Toast 157 

" Stewed 158 

Almonds, to blanch 237 

Ambrosia .. 389 

Anifels Food 248 

Apples.— Jonathan 232 

Molded 355 

" Sauce 74 

" Stuffing 73 

Trifle 355 

Articholies 165 

Baking-powdeb 169 

'■ " Interchange 183 

Batter-cakes, Hints on 1 89 

Bass.— Cook to 37 

Boiled 37 

Beans.— Baked Boston 160 

" No. 2 160 

Lima 160 

Pork and 160 

Stewed 160 

String - 160 

Beef.— A la Mode 84 

Balls 106 

Braised 81 

Carving 17 

Cheese 82 

Choosing 9 

Corn. 7- 

Corn,Rolled 86 

Deviled 105 

Dried, and Eggs 86 

Fillet of 79 

Flank, Stufifed 83 

Fricasseed 107 

Hashed 104 

Heart, Carving - 17 

Heart, Dressing 82 

Heart. Stuffed 82 

KidneysStewed 85 

LiverFried 86 

LiverStewed 86 

Loaf 84 

Potted 86 

Rissoles 103 

Roast - 78 

Roast (2) 79 

Roast and Yorkshire Pud- 
ding •79 

Roast Rib, Stufifed 79 

Roll, Spiced 83 

Sirloin, to Carve 17 



BEEF.— Stew, Baked 83 

" Stew, Irish 33 

Tongue 85 

Tongue, Deviled — 85 

Beefsteak.— A la Maitre d'Hotel. . 80 

Broiled gO 

For the Old 81 

" Fried 80 

Onions, with 81 

" Oyster Sauce 81 

Pie 105 

Pudding 81 

" Round 80 

Beee.— Cream Ginger 386 

'' " Nectar "'. 385 

Hop 387 

Milk or Koumis 386 

" Root and Bark 386 

Breakfast Relish no 

Beverages Home '. 335 

Beets .• i63 

" Young ;;. 163 

Birds Nests 232 

" Smothered 63 

" ■> Broiled — 63 

Biscuit.— Baking Powder 177 

" Beaten 178 

" Breakfast 178 

" Cream-Tartar 176 

■' Creamery Flour 179 

Drop 178 

Graham 178 

No. 2 178 

PocketBook 181 

" Raised 177 

" " Easy 177 

Soda 176 

Boiled Dinner 166 

Bouillon 25 

(Beef Tea) 25 

Brine for Beef, Pork, etc 101 

Brown Betty 233 

Blanc-mange.— Almond 361 

" '* Arrowroot 360 

" " Bird's Nest 365 

" " Calve's Foot 361 

" " Chocolate 362 

" " Corn-starch 362 

" " Cream Fruit 363 

" " Cream Peach 364 

'* ** Farina 362 

Farina Fruit 363 



(537) 



538 



INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Blanc-mange.— Froth for 360 

Gelatine 360 

" " Harlequin 364 

Hintsfor 359 

" " Irish Moss 364 

" ■' Isinglass 360 

Rice 361 

Rice Flour 361 

Sago 362 

Tapioca 362 

Blue Fish 37 

Bread.— Balls 78 

Batter 194 

" Brown Boston 174 

" Brown Steamed 174 

Buttermilk 173 

Corn 176 

" Corn-meal Sponge 171 

" Corn and Pumpkin 175 

" Corn, Steamed 176 

Good 171 

" Graham 170 

" Graham Quick 174 

" Graham Yeast 173 

" Graham Yeast (2) 1 73 

Hintsfor 167-168 

" Indian 175 

" Lime-water in 170 

Milk Yeast 172 

" Oatmeal 175 

Potato Sponge 170 

Rye 172 

" Salt-rising 171 

" Southern Dinner 193 

" Steamed, Dessert 198 

" Stuffing (Fish) 37 

" Vienna 172 

Buckwheat 190 

Buns 181 

Butter.— Burnt 121 

*' Drawn 120 

Maitre d'Hotel 80-121 

" Substitute for 238 

Butter Fruit.— Apple 333 

Grape 3.33 

" No. 2 333 

" " Lemon 359 

" " Muskmelon 332 

•* " Orange 333 

" " Pear 332 

" " Plum 332 

" No. 2 332 

" " Pumpkin 333 

Cabbage.— A laCreme 161 

Boiled 161 

Fried 161 

" SauerXrout 161 

(See also Slaw and Salad.) 

Cake.— Almonds for 237 

" Flavoring Extra for 238 

" Frostings for 240-243 

Fruit for 237 

Hints for 234-236 

" Mixing and Baking 237 

" Weights and Measures 239 

Cake.— Fruit, White 245 

" " Apple 246 

" Black 244 

" " Cream 246 

" Pork 247 



page. 

Cake.— Fruit, Raised 246 

Royal 245 

" Ginger Pound 284 

Gold 251 

Gold Plain 252 

" Graham 261 

" Huckleberry 26() 

Lady 252 

" Lemon 258 

" Loaf 256 

" " Raised 257 

No. 2 257 

Marble 253 

No. 2 254 

" 3 254 

Molasses Soft 287 

Nut 256 

" No. 2 256 

" Orange 258 

1-2-3-4 258 

" Pound 256 

" Water 256 

" Raisin 247 

Silver 251 

" Plain 252 

Snowdrift 250 

" Snowflake 251 

Sorghum 286 

Spice 253 

" " Raisin 253 

" Sponge 248 

" No. 2 248 

" 3 248 

" 4 249 

" Cream 249 

" Milk 249 

" Velvet 249 

" " White 250 

Starch 251 

Walnut 255 

" Watermelon 254 

White Mountain 261 

Cake, Layer.— Banana 273 

" " Chocolate Cream.. 207 

" " " Caramel 267 

(No. 2) 267 

268 

Ribbon 268 

" " Cocoanut 268 

Cream.. 268 

Cream 269 

" Rolled 269 

" Custard 269 

•' " Feather 265 

Fig 272 

Fillings for... 262-263 

Fruit 272 

Ginger 285 

Hints for 261 

Ice 271 

" " Ice Cream 271 

Jellv 264 

" Apple 265 

" " " Lemon 265 

•' Roll 264 

" " Orange. 266 

" (No. 2.) 266 

" " Pine-apple 273 

" " Prince of Wales... 273 
Railroad 270 



INDEX. 



539 



PAGE. 

Cake, Lateb.— Raisin 272 

Ribbon 270 

" Fi« 271 

" " Ribbon Nut 270 

" " Spice 272 

" Sponge 265 

Walnut 269 

White 271 

Cakes.— Cbocolate Finger 282 

" Cornucopias 282 

Fancy 281 

Fried 278 

" (No. 2.) 280 

" Hints for 278 

Ginger 283 

" " Hintsfor 283 

(See Ginger-bread, Snaps, Cookies.) 

" Hermits 281 

Homsof Plenty 282 

Lady Fingers 283 

" Love 281 

" Love Knots 280 

" Miscellaneous 274 

Nut 278 

Snowballs 280 

" Snow-drops 281 

" Sponge-drops 281 

Sweet Wafers 281 

Tea 283 

Vanities 280 

Cake Loaf.— Almond 259 

*' " Angel's J'ood 248 

Bread 260 

Bride's - 243 

" " Chocolate 255 

Marbled.... 254 

Cider 259 

" Citron White 247 

" " Cocoanut 255 

" " No. 2 255 

Coffee 253 

" " Coffee, German 259 

No. 2. 260 

German Rolled 260 

" " Cornstai-ch 250 

Cream 249 

" " Date 258 

" " Delicate 250 

No. 2 250 

•* " Dried Apple 246 

" Feather (Eggless).... 252 

No. 2 - 252 

Fig 258 

" " Fruit Wedding 243 

" " " Brides 243 

" " " Grooms 243 

" " " Washington... 244 

" Apple 260 

Calf's.— Brains, Fried 91 

Plain 91 

Scalloped 91 

" Feet, to Clean 23 

" Fried 91 

" Foot Jellv 342 

Head, Boiled 88 

" Baked 89 

" Clean to 23 

•' Entree of 23 

" Liver. Fricasseed 92 

" '• Larded 92 



PAGE. 

Calf's.— Sweetbreads, Fried 92 

Stewed 92 

Candy, Home-made.— Barley Sugar 4i;i 

'' " Butterscotch 420 

" " Caramels 421 

" " " Maple 422 

" " " Molasses .. 422 

" " " Chocolate.. 422 

" (No. 2) 422 
" " Chocolate Kisses 423 

" " " Cream Drops 423 

" " " Maple 422 

" " Cocoanut Cream. 423 

" " Cream Almonds. 423 

" " " Munich.. 421 

Taffy 421 

" Walnuls. 423 

" " Date 424 

Fruit 424 

Hints for 420 

" Horehound 425 

" " Ice Cream 421 

" '* Maple 421 

'' Chocolate.. 422 

" Nut 424 

" " Molasses 420 

(No. 2).. 420 

Nut Hickory 425 

" " Peanut 424 

" (No. 2).... 424 

" " Peppermint 421 

'• " Popcorn 425 

Sugar Kisses 423 

TuttiFruttiCr'm423 

" " "Vinegar 421 

Candy, Fbench 426 

" " Almond Creams 426 

" " Chocolate Creams. 426 

Chocolate " 426 

" Candy... 427 

" " Cocoanut Creams.. 426 

" " Cream 426 

Date " .. 427 

Fruit " .. 427 

Nut " .. 427 

Carrots.— Stewed 163 

Carving, Hints on 15 

Catsup.— Cherry 126 

Cold 126 

" Cucumber 125 

Currant 128 

Grape - 125 

" Gooseberry 128 

" Mushroom 126 

Tomato 125 

" (No. 2) 125 

" Green 127 

Walnut : 126 

" (No. 2) 20 

Cauliflower.- A la Creme 162 

Boiled 162 

Cheese Cakes.— Almond — 225 

Cheese Bread 226 

" Cakes Curd 226 

" " Lemon 226 

" Rice 226 

" Cream 358 

" English 358 

" Dish for Tea . 356 

" Fondu 356 



540 



INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Cheese Grape 334 

" Potted 357 

" Quince 330 

" Smear Kase 358 

" Tarts 357 

" Toast 197 

" Welsh Rarebit 197, 356 

Cherries for Winter Use 396 

Chickens.— Choose to 12 

Gravyfor 27 

" Prairie 12 

" " to cook 61 

CHICKEN. -Cheese 72 

Baked 71 

Broiled 72 

" Corn Pie 70 

" Cutlets 75 

Fried 72 

" Fricaseed 69 

" Patties 72 

•* Pickled 72 

" Pie 69 

" Potpie 70 

' Potted 86 

'* Roast 69 

Salad 72 

Scallop 69 

Stew 71 

" " (Creole) 75 

" " (Indian) 75 

" with Oysters 70 

Chablotte.— Apple 353 

'* Banana 354 

" Fruit 354 

Chablotte Russe.— Chocolate 353 

Coffee S53 

" " Corn-starch.. 352 

" " Cream 352 

" " CremedelaCreme 353 

" " Custard 352 

" " Extra 351 

" " Lemon 353 

" " Orange 353 

" " Plain" 351 

Tea 353 

Chocolate.— Meringned 380 

" Rae-a-Haut 380 

" Summer 385 

Celerv, stewed 161 

Cider, Mulled 386 

" Sweet 386 

Citron, Home-made 334 

Clams.— Broiled 53 

" Chowder 53 

Deviled 53 

Fritters 202 

" Fried 54 

Soup 29 

Stew 53 

Toast 53 

Cobbler, Apple or Peach 222 

Cocoa Shells 381 

Cocoanut Snow 390 

Codfish Balls 44 

Boiled 40 

" Cheesewith 44 

" Fried 44 

Potted 42 

Coffee.— Boiled 881 

'CateauLait 382 



PAGE. 

Coffee.— Cream Substitute 382 

Dripped 382 

For Festivals 381 

Iced 384 

" Meringued 382 

Rve 383 

Steamed 382 

Steeped 381 

Cookies.— Carra way 275 

" Cinnamon 274 

" Cocoanut 276 

" Cream 275 

Dutch 275 

" Eggless 274 

" Favorite 274 

" Frosted 276 

Fruit 275 

" Ginger 288 

" " Bakers 288 

Graham 276 

Hickory Nut 276 

Honey 276 

" Molasses 287 

(No 2) 287 

(No. 3) 287 

" New Year's 277 

•' Vanilla 274 

Spice 275 

Water 274 

Crabs, to Choose 13 

" Hot 54 

Ceackers 182 

Graham.fruit 182 

Milk 182 

Oatmeal 182 

Ceeams.— Cream Almond 367 

" Banana 370 

" Bavarian 371 

Burnt 368 

" Caledonia 368 

Chocolate 366 

No. 2 367 

" Cornstarch 370 

Fruit 372 

" Gooseberry 372 

" Italian 369 

" Lemon 367 

" Lemon Snow 373 

" Orange 367 

Oriental 371 

" Peach 370 

" Raspberry 372 

(No. •^) 372 

Rice 369 

•' Rock 369 

Snow 368 

" Winter 368 

Spanish 369 

" Strawberry 371 

(No. 2) 372 

" Tapioca 366 

(No.2) 366 

Velvet 368 

Whipped 372 

Whip Svllabub 373 

" White Mountain 373 

Cream Substitute lor Fruit ....356, 390 

" Coffee 383 

" Nectar Boston 385 



INDEX. 



541 



PAGE. 

Codfish Salt .....43, 44 

Stew 44 

Toast on 44 

Chowder 41 

Corn, Green.— Baked 163 

Boiled 152 

" Canned 154 

" " " and Tomatoes 155 

" " Chowder 154 

" " Croquettes . 110 

" " Dried 155 

" " Griddle Cakes 153 

" " Oysters 153 

" " Pudding 154 

" " Put Down 154 

Stewed 152 

" " Succotash 153 

Winter.. 153 

Cornucopias 282 

Croquettes.— Calve's Brains 108 

" Chicken 108 

•' Com, Green 110 

Fish 108 

Ham 109 

" Hints lor 107 

Lobster 108 

" Oyster 110 

Potato 109 

Rice 109 

Shad Roe 108 

" Sweetbread 109 

Veal 109 

Crontons 22 

Crullers 280 

Crumpets 186 

" Cornmeal 186 

Cucumbers.— Stewed 163 

Toast 164 

Custard.— Almond 347 

Baked 345 

Boiled 345 

BirdNest 349 

" Chocolate 346 

" Cream 348 

Cup 346 

Farina 348 

" Indian-meal 348 

" Lemon 349 

Mottled 347 

" Orange 347 

" (No. 2) 349 

Rennet 346 

" lor 346 

Rice 346 

Soups lor 24 

" Tapioca - — 348 

Curry Powder 20 

Dessert.— Banana 355 

Peach 356 

Desserts, Hasty 313 

Dressing lor Fish , 43 

" Roast Beel 78 

(Dressings, see Salads.) 

Drinks, Table 380 

Doughnuts ^7o 

Cream 279 

Graham 279 

" Indian-meal 279 

Quick 280 

Soda 279 



PAGE. 

DUCK.— Boiled 74 

Mallard 60 

Mock 82 

" Roast, Sauce lor 75 

Sour 75 

Wild 62 

Ducks, Apple Stuffing lor 73 

Boned 73 

" Carving 16 

" Choosing 12 

Roast 72 

Dumplings.— Apple, Baked 230 

" Boiled 230 

Crust (2) 229 

Dough 231 

" Hintslor 238 

Lemon 230 

Light 231 

" Peach 230 

" Potato 149 

Rolled 231 

Steamed 231 

Egg Plant (Batter with) 164 

Fried 164 

Scalloped 164 

Egg Balls 21 

" Baskets 113 

" Dumplings (2) 22 

" Fricassee 112 

" Toast 113 

Eggs.— Baked 115 

" Brine lor Ill 

" Curried 115 

DevUed 113 

" Ham and. Baked 115 

" Fried 114 

" Hash and 115 

Hintslor Ill 

" Packing ■ 111 

Pickled (2) 113 

" Poached 112 

Scalloped 114 

Scrambled 114 

Shirred 113 

Smothered 112 

" Sour(German) 112 

" Steamed 114 

" Testing 14 

Eels.— Baked 42 

" Broiled 42 

Fried 41 

Effervescing Draughts, Raspberry, 

etc 387 

Fat, Clarilv to 77 

Fanchonettes 224 

Flannel Cakes 191 

Flavoring Extracts 238 

" " Bitter Almond. 238 

" " Dry Flavoring. 238 

" " Lemon 238 

Peach Pits 238 

Orange 238 

Vanilla 238 

Figs.— Home Made 334 

" Tomato 334 

FiLiJNGs FOR Cakes 262 

" Almond Cream 26 J 

" Chocolate 262 

" " Frosting (Eggless) 263 
" Cocoauut «•• 263 



542 



INDEX. 



PiGE. ' 

FrUiiNGS Cocoamit Chocolate..... 263 
.. '• Frosting (Eggless) 263 

Cream - 2(;2 I 

Plain 2G2 

" Whipped 262 

'• Lemon " ?!^? 

" Jelly 264 I 

Orange -o^ ; 

Fish.— Baked - Yq i 

" Dressing lor 4 J j 

" Boiling %% I 

Blue, Baked ^' 

" Bread, Stuffing for ^i 

Carving W \ 

" Choosing \f^ 

Flaked - ^.0 

Forcemeat Balls 4^ 

Fresh Vo 

" Water 1^ 

Frying ^ 

" Hints for fl 

Potted f2 

" Scallop f^ 

Shell, Hints 47 

Sour Baked fg 

" White 1^ 

" Baked ^° 

.1 " g^it 45 

Floating Island 349 

'• Cream ^4^ 

Fruit 356 

" I'Elegante (2).... 350 

Forcemeat.— Balls (2) 22 

Fish 43 

Potato '% 

Turkey for 67 

Fowls.— Boned --- "^ 

Forcemeat with oo 

" Carving 1^ 

Fbittebs.— Apple (2) ^''y 

Banana -"^ 

Carrot --202 

Clam 202 

Corn ^"^ 

Cream 200 

Hints for 199 

" Imperial ^Og 

Sauce 203 

Oxford 200 

Oyster 203 

Parsnip 202 

Peach 201 

Pineapple fOi 

Plain(2) 199 

Potato 202 

Rice 201 

" Squash -^^g 

Feog on Toast o9 

Frostings.— Boiled ^^ jl 

Chocolate ^fJ 

" " Boiled "^42 

•' " Cream 242 

Coloring for 240 

" Decorative ;^4() 

Eggless Boiled 242 

«. « Chocolate.... 263 

'« " Cocoanut 263 

•• " Gelatine - 242 

•• " Quicls 242 



PAGE. 

Fkostings.— Gelatine u242 

Hints lor 240 

Maple Svrup 242 

Tuttl-Frutti 242 

White (2) 241 

•; " Yellow 241 

Fkuits, Canned.— Apples, Raisins.. 396 

" " Canning 394-395 

(No. 2). 395 

Corn 154-398 

" " Elderberries 396 

" " Grapes 395 

Hints for... 392-394 

Pears 395 

" " Peaches 396 

Pieplant 396 

I " " Plums 896 

" Pumpkin 397 

" " Strawberries 397 

Time Table for. 394 - 

" " Tomatoes 397 

" " Uncooked Can- 
ning 398 

Fbuits. Candied 392 

Crystallized 391 

Fbuits, Dbied.— Apples 335 

" " Cherries oah 

" " Citron, Homemade 334 

" " Currants 336 

" " Blackberries 336 

" Figs, Home-made. 334 

" ♦' " Tomato 334 

" " Gooseberries 335 

" " Orange and Lemon 

Peel 335 

Peaches (2) 335 

•• " Peach Paper 335 

Plums (2) 335 

" Pumpkin 336 

" " Raspberries 336 

" " Tomatoes 336 

Fbuits, Fresh 388 

" " Ambrosia •3»y 

" " Apples 388 

" " Bananas (4) 389 

" Blackberries 390 

" " Grapes, to Keep 388 

" Serve.... 388 

" " Muskmelon 390 

" " Oranges, to Choose. 388 

'^ '' Serve... 389 

" " Pears, " " ■ ■ 388 

Peaches " " 388-389 

" " Pine-applea to Serve 389 

" " Raspberries " " 390 

" " Strawberries, to " 390 

(No. 2)--. 390 

•' " Tomatoes 137-391 

" •' Watermelon 390 

Fbuits, Fbosted.— Apples 391 

" " Grapes 391 

" " Oranges 391 

i " " Peaches 391 

Small 391 

Orange and Lemon Peel Preserved. 335 

Fbuits, Spiced.— Cherries 128 

: " " Currants l-io 

i " " Grapes 128 

" " Gooseberries 128 

i " " Peaches 129-414 



INDEX. 



543 



PAOE. 

Fruits, Spiced.— Tomatoes. 127 

Fbuit Sauce.— Apple Compote 399 

" " " Sauce 401 

" Cider... 400 

Dried.. 400 

" " " " and Jelly 401 

" Baked 400 

" " " " Sweet.. 400 

" Boiled 399 

" " " Delicious 401 

' " " Evaporated... 400 

" Fried. 401 

" Jellied 399 

« " " Potted 399 

" Spiced 399 

" Stewed 401 

" " Berries, Dried 402 

" " Cranberries 402 

Jellied.. 402 
Kuby... 402 

" " For Children 403 

" " Hints lor ---- 398 

" " Peach Compote 403 

■' '■ Peaches, Dried 403 

Fried 403 

Stewed 403 

Prunes, Stewed 403 

" " Quinces, Baked 401 

Stewed .- 401 
Rhubarb, Baked.... 402 

Game.— Choosing 11 

Hintson 55 

Garnishes.— Beef 142 

'• Steak 140-141 

Cakes 145 

Chops 141 

Fish 139-140 

Fowls 143 

Pork 142-143 

" Salads, etc 144 

Shell Fish 144-145 

Gbavt.— Glblet ^67 

Hashfor 120 

Plain 37 

Gravies, for Roast 78 

' See Sauces. 

Grapes, Wild, for Winter 397 

Geese, to Choose 12 

Gems.— Cornmeal 187 

" Graham, Hvjrienic 186 

Milk 186 

Hintsfor 183 

' Oatmeal 187 

Greens - - 165 

GINGERBUE.4.D.— Apple 284 

Baker's Hard 286 

Cream 28ti 

Fruit 285 

" Hard 286 

Honey 285 

•' Hints for 283 

Layer 285 

Soft 286 

Spice 285 

Sponge 284 

GlNGERSNAPS.— (21 288 

Boston 2S8 

Griddle Cakes. —Cornmeal(3). 190-1 91 

Crumb 192 

" " Buckwheat 190 



PAGE. 

Griddle Cakes.— Flannel 191 

Quick 191 

" " Graham Raised.. 190 

Hints for 189 

" " Hominy 192 

I " " Potato 193 

Rice 193 

Rye 191 

Syrup for 358 

Goose.— Car ving 16 

Ruast 74 

Grouse, Carving 16 

Gumbo. —Creole 1 60 

Filee 21-'.'8 

Halibut.— Baked 42 

Choosing 13 

Fillets of 40 

:' Potted 42 

Ham.— Boiled 96 

" Carving 16 

" Curing 101 

Deviled 106 

Omelet 99 

Picklelor 101 

" Potted 86 

With Eggs 106-1 14-1 15 

Hare, Stewed 63 

Hash.— Beef 104 

Hintsfor 103 

Meat and Potato 104 

Mutton 104 

Spanish 103 

With Eggs 103-115 

Head-Ch.-ese 98 

Herriu;,- to Choose 13 

Hermits 2S1 

Hoe Cakes 1 93 

HoRHNY.-- Fried 156 

Lye 155 

to Cook 155 

Honey. -Cuba 359 

" Lemon 359 

" Nevada 358 

Horns of Plenty 282 

Horseradish for Winter - 138 

Hotch Potch 1 06 

Ice Cream.— Almond 3/7 

Chocolate (2) - 376 

Coffee 377 

" Cornstarch 376 

Fruit 377 

" Lemon (21.. 375 

*' Peach 376 

" Pineapple 378 

Ro.^e 376 

Tea 377 

Tutti Frutti 378 

Vanilla 375-376 

Icing.— Almond 242 

White, Quick 241 

Yellow, Quick 241 

Jam.— Blackberry 329 

Currant - 329 

Grape 329 

" Raspberry 329 

Rhubarb 329 

". Strawberry 329 

Jelly.— Apple g^o 

Blackberry Siz 

Calves' Foot 342 



544 



INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Jelly.— Cherry 339 

ClderBoiled 344 

Coffee 344 

Cow's Foot 344 

" Ciabapple 339 

" Cranberry 340 

" Currant 338 

" " Uncooked 338 

" White 338 

Four Fruit 342 

" Gooseberry 340 

*' Grape, Green 341 

Ripe 341 

" Harlequin 343 

Hints for 337-338 

Huckleberry 341 

Lemon 264-343 

" Orange 343 

Peach(2) 339 

" Plum 340 

" Wild 340 

" Pyramid 343 

" Quince 344 

" " and Apple 338 

" Stock 73 

•' Strawberry 341 

Tapioca 366 

" Tomato 340 

Johnny Cake, Sweet 194 

Jumbles (2) 277 

" Almond 277 

" Cocoanut 278 

" Hickory-nut. . 278 

" Lemon 277 

Walnut 278 

Kentucky Corn Dodgers 193 

Kidneys, Stewed 85 

Kourais or Milk Beer 386 

Lamb.— Chops 95 

Cream Sauce for 94 

LegotBoiled 95 

" Roast 94 

Shoulder of 94 

" Saucefor 95 

Stew 95 

" Choose to 10 

" Carve to 17 

Lambs' Tongues 95 

Laplanders for Breakfast 187 

Labd, to Render 100 

" to Sweeten 101 

Lemonade 384 

Portable 238-384 

Lettuce 137 

LiVEB —Calves, Larded 92 

" Beef, Fried 86 

" " Stewed 86 

" Fricassee'd 92 

LOBSTEE.— Boiled 54 

" Curry 54 

Relish 54 

" Scalloped 54 

" Choose to 13 

Love Knots 280 

Macaroni.— Baked. 166 

With Cheese 166 

M A caboons.— Almonds 425 

Cocoanut 425 

MACKEBEL.— Fresh 40 

" Salt 44 



PAOE. 

Mackerel.— Salt Baked 45 

" Broiled 45 

" " Fried 45 

" Choose to 13 

Mackinaw Trout, Baked 38 

Marketing 9, 14 

Mabmalade.— Apple 331 

Grape 330 

" Red 331 

Lemon 331 

" Orange 331 

" Peach 331 

" Pear -.. 330 

" (No. 2) 332 

Pine-apple 331 

Plum. 332 

" Quince 330 

" " and Pear 330 

Tomato 332 

Meat.— Omelet 105 

Pie, Tomato 106 

Scallop 105 

Scrapie 104 

Meats 9 

Cold 105 

Curing 101 

" General in 9 

Hintsfor 76, 78 

Rechauffeof 105 

StockJellyfor 73 

Meringue. —Apple 354 

Chocolate 354 

Muffins.- Cornmeal (2) 185 

Hintsfor 183 

Milton 184 

" Oatmeal 185 

Quick 184 

Raised 183 

Rice 185 

Rye 185 

Mush.— Cerealine 196 

" Cornmeal 195 

Cracked Wheat 196 

Fried 195 

" Graham, Plain 195 

" " Granulated 196 

Fruit 194 

" Oatmeal 195 

" " Fried 196 

Pearl Wheat 196 

Wheatlet 196 

Mushrooms.— Baked 158 

" Broiled 158 

Fried 159 

Stewed 158 

Testto 158 

Mustard.- French 124 

" Prepared 124 

Spiced 124 

Tomato 124 

Mutton.— Carving 17 

" Choosing 10 

Chops 94 

Cutlet 93 

Hashed 104 

Leg of, Boiled 93 

" " Stuffed 98 

Pickle for 101 

Roast 93 

Stew 93 



INDEX. 



545 



PAGE. 

Mutton.— Stewed with Peas 94 

Noodles 23 

'• Dessert 231 

Nut Cakes 278 

Okr A.— P'lied 1 60 

" Stewed 161 

Omelet.— Apple 117 

Bread . 116 

Cabbage 117 

" Cheese 117 

" Corn, Green 116 

" Ham 99 

" Hintson 115 

Jelly 116 

Oyster (No. 2) 52 

Meat 105 

Plain 115 

Potato 151 

" Sauce for 115 

" Souffle 116 

" Tomato 115 

Onions.— Fried 164 

Stewed 164 

Opossum.— Fried 58 

" Roasted ... 58 

Ortolans, to Cook 61 

Oysteb. -Omelet (2) 52 

Patties 51 

Pie 51 

Salad 136 

" Salmon Pie 51 

Stew 47 

Vegetable 159 

Otstees.— Broiled 48 

" Choosing 13 

'■ Fricasseed 50 

Fried (2) 48 

Mock 53 

" Panned 50 

Piikled 52 

" Roast 50 

" Scalloped 49 

" Shell, in the 49 

" Steamed 50 

" Stewed with Celery 47 

" Toast on 48-49 

With Eggs 49 

Pancakes, Wh^at 192 

Paetbidges.— Carving 16 

Choosing 12 

Partridge Pie 61 

Parsnips, Browned 163 

Stewed 163 

Pastry 204-206 

Pkeserves.— Apple 323 

" Barberries 328 

" Blackberry 327 

Cherry 327 

Cherries for Winter. . 396 

Crabapple 323 

" Cranberry 328 

*' Cucumber 327 

Currant 328 

" Citron 323 

" Elderbeny 327 

" Grapes 325 

" Hints for 320-321 

" Musknielon 325 

" Orange 326 

•' Peach (2) 321 

35 



Pbesebves.— Pear (2) ^>^; 

Pineapple 326 

Plum 324 

' .Wild 325 

Persimmon . . 3og 

Prune , :::: 328 

Pumpbm 328 

Raspberry """ 326 

Strawberry ..... 327 

Sweet Potato...."!!!^ ;i'J!> 

Tomato .[[ 323 

Green 324 

T>_ ,r. " ^?'""' '2' -•■ 321 

Preserved Orange and Lemon Peel 335 

Peach Paper 335 

" Pandowdy .'.'."." ojj-j 

Peas, Fresh or "Canned 15!> 

Pemmican 5!> 

Pheasant, to Carve 1 J, 

Pickles SouE.— Apricots 413 

Artichokes 412 

" " Beets, French 414 

" Cabbage 412 

" " " Red 412 

" CaiTots 414 

" " Cauliflower 412 

" " Celery Roots 413 

" " Cherries 411 

" " Chow-Chow 407 

'I " " Mixed .. 407 

' " Mustard 406 

Commercial 410 

" " Com, for Winter.. 413 

" " Cucumber 405 

." " " No. 2.... 405 

" " Apple 405 

Mixed ... 405 

Mustard . 406 

" To Freshen 406 

" Easy 410 

Fall 406 

" " French 407 

Hints for 404-405 

'• Mango Melons 409 

" " " Peppers 410 

" " Mustard 406 

" " Pickle for.. 406 

" Quick 40;> 

" '' Mushrooms 412 

'* " Nasturtium Seeds. 41 1 

" " Onion 411-412 

" Peaches 414 

'• " Piccalilli 408 

" " Sweet 40>< 

String Beans 413 

" " Tomato Chowder.. 4(17 

Raw 411 

" " Sliced 4 10 

" " Vinegar, Spiced for I'SH 
" " Walnuts and But- 
ternuts 413 

Pickles, Sweet.— Apples 415 

Beets 418 

" " Berries 418 

" " Cabbage 417 

" " Cherries 4 1 7 

Citron 416 

" " Combination 417 

" " Crabapples 415 

" " Cucumbers, Ripe 416 



546 



INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Pickles, Sweet.— Grapes, Ripe 417 

" " Peaches 414 

" " " Mangoes 415 

" " Muskmelons 410 

" " Pears 415 

Plums 417 

" " Quinces 418 

" " Tomatoes... 416-417 

" Watermelon Rinds 415 

Pickerel.— Baked 38 

Cookto 37 

PiE.-Apple, Custard.-.. 209 

Dried 209 

Green 209 

Meringue 209 

•• Banana 222 

" Blackberry 222 

" Cream 217 

" Carrot 220 

'• Cheese 218 

" Cherry 222 

" Cobbler, Peach 222 

" Cocoanut 219 

" Cranberry, Tart--. 223 

" Cream 216 

" " Mock 217 

" " Ornameutal 217 

" Crust 207 

" Cream 208 

" " Epicurean 208 

" " Healthful 208 

" " Hygienic 208 

*' Currant 221 

" Custard 218 

" " Labor-saving . 218 

" " Meringue 218 

" Peach - 218 

" Elderberry '.21 

" Gooseberry 221 

" Grape 22 1 

" Huckleberry , 221 

" Jelly ■. 222 

" Lemon, Two Crusts 210 

" " Molasses 21 o 

Plain . - 209 

Potato 21 I 

" " Rich 210 

" Molasses 'J2 1 

" Mince 2 1 o-2 1 1 

" " Exaa 214 

" Mock . 214 

" Oranw 211 

" Peach 2-1 

" Dried 221 

" Pieplant, Meringue 212 

" Prune 216 

" Puff Paste 207 

" Pumpkin(3) 215 

" Raisin - 216 

Raspberry 222 

" Rhubarb 212 

" " and Raisin 212 

" Shells... .-.. 208 

" Squash 210 

" Strawberry, Meringue 217 

Tart 223 

" Sweet Marlborough 222 

" Potato 220 

" Tomato, Green 220 

" " Ripe 220 



PAGE. 

Pie.— Vinegar 211-212 

" Washington 219 

Cream 220 

" Fried 222 

Pigeons.— Carving 16 

" Choosing 12 

" Roasted 60 

" Stewed 60 

Pie OO 

Pig.— Carve to 1 (i 

" Roast 9(i 

Pigs' Feet.— Cleaniiii; 97 

Cookiui; 9T 

*' Pressed, 97 

" " Soused 97 

" Heads, Pressed 98 

Pike, to Cook 37 

Plover, to Choose 12 

to Cook 61 

Pocket-books 181 

Pop-overs 1 84 

Pop-corn.— Balls (2) 425 

" " " Sugared 425 

Pork.— Carving 16 

" Choosing 11 

Chops 98 

" Head-cheese 98 

Picklefor 101 

Pie 98 

Roast 95 

Salt, Broiled 99 

" Fried _ 99 

Spare Rib, Roast. 96 

To Restore 102 

Potatoes.— riiked in Mil U 149 

Hi I.^ - 148 

i; .il.-.l 148 

ilrowii' d 150 

Dmiiplin-s 149 

Fieii, Riw 150 

HrillHudaise 150 

Mashed 148 

Mashed (No. 2) 148 

Saratoira 149 

Scalloped 149 

" Snow 148 

Steamed 148 

" Stewed, Raw.^ 150 

Stuffed. . ..r. 149 

Tossed 150 

Potatoes, Cold 151 

" " A la Creme 151 

" Baked 152 

" Balls 151 

" " Browned 152 

" " Lyonnaise 152 

*' " Maitre d'Hotel — 151 

" " Omelet 151 

" " Princess 151 

" Puff 152 

" " Sweet, Buttered.. 151 

Pot Pie.— Chicken 70 

" " Crust 70 

" '• " Potato '. 71 

Poultry.— Choosing 12 

" Dressing 65 

" Hints on 64 

Pudding.— Almond 308 

Apple 299 

^' Custard 299 

Puff's— Steamed Fruit 233 



INDEX. 



547 



PAGE. 

Pudding.— Arrowroot 312 

" Banana Dessert 355 

Batter 298 

" Cherrv 297 

" Peach 300 

Berrv--- 307 

Bird's Nest 232 

Blackberry.... 307 

" Bread Boiled 293 

'■ " Butter and 30G 

" MerinKue 293 

" Plain 293 

Brown Betty 233 

Buttermilk 312 

Cabinet 312 

** Cake with sauce 311 

Cherrv... 307 

" Chocolate 303 

" " Cornstarch 303 

" Cocoanut 300 

Rich 301 

" Corn, Green 299 

" Cornstarch, Baked 302 

" " Boiled 301 

" " Custard 302 

" " Plain 302 

Cracker 305-306 

" Custard 307 

" Dandy Jack 303 

" Dainty 310 

" Desserts Hasty 313 

Fig 309 

" Flummery 311 

" French Pancakes 313 

** Gingerbread --.. 308 

" " Preserved 319 

" Graham 311 

Hartford 298 

" Hasty Desserts 313 

" Hints for 289-290 

" Huckleberry 306 

Indian Apple 296 

•• " Baked 295 

Boiled 296-297 

" " '■ Delmonico 296 

" ** " Eggless . . 296 

" " " Fruit 296 

Jelly Cake Fritters 313 

" Lady Sutherland 313 

" Lemon 304 

Mince, Rolled 311 

Minute (3) 307-308 

" No Matters 311 

" Oatmeal 312-311 

" Orange 305 

" " Baked 305 

Quaking 307 

Queen of 309 

" Queen's Toast 813 

*' Peach Dessert 356 

" " Pandowdy 233 

" Perfection 306 

" Pippin 299 

Plum, English 290 

*' " Farmers 291 

" " Yankee 291 

" Prune 308 

" Rice Apple 293 

Boiled 292 

" " Cupped 356 

Puff's.— Cream 225 



PAGE. 

Pudding.— Rice, Eggless 292 

'• Eggs 292 

Peach 292 

Plain 292 

Rich 291 

Rhubarb 310 

Sago (2) 300 

Salt Pork 299 

Snow (2) 304 

" Sponge 303 

Cake 308 

Steamed Loaf 307 

Suet(2) 297 

Sweet Potato 309 

Tapioca 294 

" •' Apple 295 

' " Cup 295 

Dani-sh 294 

Fruit 295 

" •' Peach 295 

Plain 294 

" Transparent 305 

What is It's 313 

White 310 

Pudding Sauces.— Butter 319 

Cabinet 319 

Cider 318 

" " Cornstarch 316 

" " (2) .. 316 

" " Creamy 315 

Cream, Cold. .. . 310 
Hot.... 316 
Sweet.. 316 

" " Custard 315 

Date 317 

" " Dominion 318 

Egg 318 

Golden 315 

Hard Gold 315 

" Silver... 315 

Hints for 314 

Jelly 318 

" " Lemon. 317 

" Plain... 317 

Maple 318 

Milk 316 

Silver 315 

Simple 314 

Strawberry .... 319 

Vanilla 317 

"Vinegar 318 

Quail.— Carving 16 

Pie 61 

Toast on 61 

Quenelles 21 

Rabbits.— Choosing 12 

" Fricasseed 58 

Rabbit, Fried 58 

Pie 58 

" Roasted 57 

Stew 58 

Raccoons, to Cook 59 

Rail Birds, to Cook 61 

Rechauffe of Meat 105 

Reed Birds, to Cook 61 

Red Snapper, Baked 39. 40 

Boiled 39 

Rennet, Homemade 346 

Rice, Baked 1 65 

" " Southern 166 



548 



INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Rolls.— Chicken and Ham 198 

" Cinnamon — 180 

" Parker House 1 80 

Sweet Potato 181 

Twist 181 

Virginia .. 180 

Roly-Polv 231 

Rusk 1 79 

" Dried 179 

Salads.— Ala Russe 136 

Bean.--. 137 

Beef 138 

" Beet and Cabbage 138 

" Boiled Dressing 130 

Cabbage, Hot 131 

" Cauliflower 132 

Celery 133 

Clieese 136 

Chicken {'2) 134 

" " Cream 134 

" " Mayonnaise 135 

" Crab 137 

" Cream Dressing 129 

Egg 136 

" Lettuce 132 

Lettuce, Hot 137 

Lobster 135 

" Mayonnaise Dressing 130 

" Nonpareil *' 129 

Oyster 136 

Potato (4) 131-132 

" Salmon 133 

" Sweetbread 136 

" Tomato 133 

" " Mayonnaise 133 

Veal 135 

" Water-cress 137 

Salmon.— Boiled 38 

Broiled .- 38 

Collared 38 

Deviled 46 

" Pickled, Canned 45, 46 

" Smoked. (Salmi 39) 45 

" Steak and Potatoes 39 

Sally Lunn, Raised 187 

Quick 188 

Salsify, Vegetable Oyster 159 

Sandwiches 198 

Chicken 197 

' " HamandEgg 198 

" '■ " Sardines 46 

Rolled 198 

Sardines and Ham Sandwiches 46 

" on Toast 47 

Sauces or GRA^aES. Anchovy 1 24 

" " " Brown 119 

Caper 121 

Celerv, White 121 
Chilli Sauce.. 122 

" " " Cream 119 

" •' " Curry 121 

" " " Currant Jelly 120 

" " " Drawn Butter 120 

Egg 122 

" Hollandaise.. 121 

" ■' " Horse-radish 122 

" " " Lemon 121 

" " " Lobster 123 

•• " Mint 120 

•• •• " Mushroom... 123 



PAGE. 

Sauces or Gravies.— Onion. 122 

Oyster 122 

" " Parsley 123 

" Shrimp 123 

Wiiite (2).... 119 

Sausage.— Beef 1 00 

Bologna 99 

Summer tor loi 

Toad in Hole ----- 9« 

Saur Kraut 1 6 1 -] 62 

Shad, Broiled 42 

Sherbets.— Apricot 379 

" Lemon 378 

" Orange 379 

" Pine-apple 378 

'■ Strawberry 385 

Tutii Frutti, Orange.. 378 

Short Cakes.— Apple 227 

" " Cranberry 227 

" " Epicurean 228 

Jelly 228 

" " Lemon 228 

" " Orange 228 

Peach 227 

" " Raspberry, Cream. 227 

" " Straw-berry 226 

•' Sweet 228 

Slaw, Cabbage 131 

Cold 131 

Smear Kase 358 

Snaps, Ginger 288 

Snipe, to Carve 16 

'' " Cook 61 

Snow Drops 281 

" Pyramid 365 

Soup.— Bean, Cornand 32 

" " Meat without 32 

" " Porridge 32 

" Beans, Puree of 32 

Beef 25 

" Bouillion 25 

Beef Tea 25 

CatFish 30 

" Cauliflower Cream 30 

Chicken 26 

" " Bean 27 

" " GreenCorn 27 

Clam 29 

" Consomme with Custard 24 

" Cream Vegetable 34 

" Fish 30 

" Game, Puree of 26 

Giblet 27 

" GreenCorn 31 

Gumbo 21-27 

Filee 28 

Southern 28 

Hints for 18 

" Jardiniere 32 

Lobster 29 

" Meat Vegetable 30 

MockTurtle 23 

Mutton 25 

Noodle 25 

Ovster 28 

'" No. 2 29 

Pea 33 

" Pearl Barley 31 

Potato, with Milk 31 

" •* without Milk 31 



INDEX. 



549 



PAGE. 

Soup.— Potato Puree of Cream 31 

Ka)3bit (White) 2li 

" " (Brown). tiG 

Stock. 18-'_'0 

[ " Tomato and Bean 33 

" (with Milk) 33 

" (without Milk) 33 

Veal (Plain) 24 

" " Tapioca and 24 

" Vegetable, Ham Bone 34 

Soup Coloring.— Brandy 21 

Brown 21 

" " Green 21 

Red 21 

White 21 

Soup, to Clarify 21 

Soup Filling.— BalLs, German 23 

" " Croutons 22 

" " Dumplings 22 

Egg (2) 22 
Forcemeat Balls (2) 22 

Noodles 23 

" " Quenelles 21 

Soup Flavoring 20 

" " Currv Powder 20 

" •* Gumbo Filee 21 

" " Oatmeal Rolled... 20 

Parsley 20 

" Soup Herb Spirit. 20 

Walnut Catsup... 20 

Soy Tomato 127 

SpareRib Roast 96 

Spinach 165 

Sponge Drops 281 

Squash, Hubbard 165 

Summer 164 

Suet Crust 229 

Syrup for Hot Cakes 358 

Lemon (2) 358 

" Orange 358 

Syllabub, Whip 373 

Tarts.— Apple 224 

Chantillv 224 

Chocolate 225 

" Cream 225 

" Cream Berry 217 

Fanchonettes 224 

Jelly 223 

" Lemon 224 

Orange 224 

Puff Paste 223 

Shells 223 

Tea 383-384 

" Iced 384 

Terrapin 62 

Toad in the Hole 98 

Toast.— Apple 198 

Cheese 197 

CreamandMilk 196 

Egg ...- 113 

Fruit 197 

German 197 

Ham 98 

Tomatoes.— Baked Stuffed 156 

Broiled 156 

" Deviled .. 156 

Green, Fried (2) 157 

" Raw 137-391 

" Scalloped 157 

" Stewed 156 



PAGK 

Tongue.— Boiled 85 

" Carving 16 

Deviled 85 

Tongues, Lambs 95 

Tripe.— Fried 85 

Pickled 85 

Prepai-e to 85 

Turbot, to Choose 13 

Turkey.— Boiled 68 

Carving 16 

" Choosing 12 

Cutlets 75 

" Dressed with Oysters 68 

" Forcemeat for 67 

•' Giblet Gravy for 67 

" Oyster Dressing 67 

" Roast 66 

Wild, to Roast 62 

Scallop 08 

Turnips.— Mashed 1 62 

Stewed 162 

Vanities 280 

Veal.— Breast of 87 

" Carving 17 

" Choosinsj 10 

Cutlets Broiled 89 

" Fried 89 

Filletof 87 

Jelly 90 

LoaiE 89-90 

Loin of 17 

Marble 90 

Minced 106 

Pie 88 

Pillan of — 91 

Potted 90 

Potpie 88 

" Ragout 106 

Roast 87 

" Sausage 92 

Spiced 90 

Stew 88 

Vegetables. — Hints for Cook- 
ing 146-148 

Venison.- Carvintr 17 

" Choosing 11 

Hash -- 57 

" Jelly Sauce for 56 

" Larded 56 

" Pie or Pastry 56 

" Roast 55 

" Roast Rib 57 

Saddle 17 

Steaks 57 

Stew 57 

Vinegars.— Apple 419 

Beet - 418 

Cider 419 

Corn 419 

Honey 418 

Home-made 418 

" Raspljerry, a beverage.. 385 

Sorghum 419 

Spiced for Pickles.. 138, 419 

Waffles. — Hominy 189 

Quick 188 

Raised 188 

Wafers, Sweet 281 

Water Icb.— Fruit 379 

" " Lemon 379 



550 



INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Weights and Measures 239 

Welsh Rarebit 197, 35G 

Wheatlet 196 

Wheat, Boiled 196 

Woodcock.— Carving 16 

" Choosing 12 



PAGE. 

Woodcock.— Baked 61 

Broiled 61 

Woodchuck, to Cook 59 

Yeast. —Cakes 1 69 

Hop 169 

Potato 169 



TME^ tj^:bi^j^. 



PAGE. 

Breakfast Parties 434-4:35 

Breakfasts for One Week 439 

Bills of Fare 436,439-442 

Children's Parties 443 

Church Lunch 442 

Collation 442 

Dinner 429 

Dinner foe One Week 438 

Dinner Party, Menu 442 

Finger Bowls 431 

Luncheons ." 435-436 

Making Ready 443 



PAGE. 

Menu, by Courses 43!>-441 

PiCN ics 442 

Suggestions for the Week . . .437-438 

Table —Appointments 428 

Changing the 431 

Clearing the 431 

Cloth 428 

Etiquette of -.432-434 

" Laying the 429 

Serving the 429-432 

Teas 436 



n:our»EjK:EjE^F»iis:o. 



PAGE. 

Blacking for Stoves 453 

Blankets, etc 460 

to Wash 471 

Brass Kettles 453 

Beds and Bedding 458-459 

" Spare 461 

Bedsteads 461 

Bedticking, Stained 475 

Bleaching Muslin 469 

BoUing Clothes 475 

Borax, Economy of 465 

for Washing 462 

Brooms, Scalding 454 

Broken Walls 448 

Bluing -- 465 

" Liquid 465 

Calcimintng (eight shades) 456-456 

Calico, to Wash 468 

Carpets.— Brighten to (21 449 

Clean to 447-449 

" Discolored 450 

Greaseon 449-450 

" Hea-i-v 449 

Moth3in(2) 449 

" Soot ou 450 

" Stair 450 

" Sweeping 452 

Ca.'shmere, Black, Renovate 472 

Crape, to Restore 473 

Ceilings, Smoked 448 

Cellar .-- 445 

" Damp 445 

" Whitewash.. 44-5 

Cement. Fireproof 454 

CLEA^^NQ House 445 

Closets 440 

Comfortables, Shams 460 

Washto 4G0 

Copper and Brass Kettles 453 

Tea Kettles 455 

Drains, Purify to 446 



PAGE. 

Di.sh Mop 453 

DLshes, Wash to 452 

Dyes.— Black 475 

Blue (3) 476-478 

" Brown 476 

" Cochineal 477 

" General Remarks 478 

" Green 476 

Madder Red 476 

Orange (2) 476-477 

" Salmon 477 

Scarlet 478 

Slate -- 477 

Straw 477 

Yellow 476 

Dying, to Bleach for 478 

Flannels, Wash to.. 471 

Feather-beds, Wash to 459 

Feathers, Goose 459 

Floor, Clean to 449 

Paintfor 457 

Stain " 457 

" Wax " 457 

Fluid, Climax. Cleansing 464 

Fruit Stains (2> 469-470 

Furniture.— Polishes (2) 450 

Spots on 451 

" Varnish 451 

" Walnut 451 

Gbkase. — Carpets on 449 

" Floors ou 448 

" Marble on 451 

Spots on Cloth 465 

Wall-paperon 448 

Gloves.— Dved 474 

Kid, Black 474 

" Clean to 474 

Lisle 473 

Handkerchiefs, Colored 469 

Hose.— Black 473 

" Fancy 473 



INDEX. 



551 



PAGE. 

Hose.— Lisle-thread 473 

Silk 473 

Ink Stains (2) 470 

Ironing Boards 475 

Ikon Holders 475 

" Rust 469 

IBONS. To Scour 453 

Kitchen, In the 452 

Knife Case 454 

Knives— Clean to 454 

" Rusty 454 

Lace.— Black to clean 472 

" Curtains 468 

" Linen 472-473 

White Silk 472 

Lamp.— Burners, to clean 457 

" Chimney, to clean 458 

" Tops, to cement 458 

Wicks 458 

Lamps 458 

''^ to trim 458 

LiBBABT.— To clean 451 

Linen, to wash 468 

Mabble —Iron-stained 452 

" Grease-stains 451 

Matting, to clean 451 

Mica, to clean 451 

Mildew 471 

Mirrors, to clean 451 

Moths.— Carpets in (2) 449 

" Prevent to 446 

Muslin, turnina yellow (3 1 471 

Newspapers, old 453 

Nickel Trimmings 451 

Oilcloth, to wash 451 

OilingaFloor 452 

Paint.— Floors for — 457 

Glass on (2) 448 

Soften to 457 

Spots (2) - 470 

Painted Woodwork (2) 448 

PAPERH.VNGEBS' PASTE 456-457 

Pongee, Wash to 46S 

Putty, Soften to — 457 

Qutlts.— Wash to 460 

Streaking 460 

Receptacle— Soiled Clothes 469 

Red Table Linen 469 

Ribbons, wash to 468. 472 

Room, one 447 

Rooms Sleeping— Ventilate 46 1 



PAGE. 

Sateen Wash to 468 

Stabch.— Boiled 466 

" Borax, with 468 

Coffee 469 

Flour 468 

Gloss 465 

" " Chinese 466 

" Gum Arabic with 468 

Polish 465 

Scumming 467 

Swansdown, to clean 473 

Set Color, Wash-goods (4) 474 

Silk.— Black, Renovate (2> 471 

Colored, " 472 

SiLVEB.— Plate to restore 455 

Polish (2) 455 

Soap.— Centennial, Hard 462 

Soft 462 

Cold 464 

Extra, Hard 463 

Lve, Hard 463 

" Soft 463 

Soft 463 

" Transparent 464 

Stone Crocks 453 

Stool, High 454 

Stove.— Blacking for 453 

" Mending Cracks 454 

" Pipes 453 

" Rusting 453 

Tar, Remove to 470 

Tins, new 453 

Towels, Bordered 473 

Tubs. Keep to 475 

Underwear, Silk 473 

Velvet, Restore to 473 

Wallpaper, Clean to 447 

Washing.— Ammonia for 462 

Borax for. 462 

Fluid 461 

" " fnon-boiling) 462 

Water.— Soften to 465 

Whitewash 456 

Stains 470 

WrNDOWS — Wash to 448-449 

Wings of Fowls . .- 454 

WooDWOBK. — Grained (wash) 448 

Oiled " 448 

Painted (2) 448 

Zinc, Clean to 451 



I^VVA^XvUD COOKIEJI^^S'. 



page. 

Apple Water 480 

Barley Water ... 480 

Blackberry Cordial 488 

Blanc Mange, Arrowroot 484 

Broth Chicken 486 

Beef Fet 487 

'* Sandwich (raw) 486 

BeefsteakTea 486 

Beef Tea, (2) 486 

BUTTERMrLK 488 

Mulled (2) 481 

Caudle 483 

" Rice 483 



page 

Ckacker.— Dessert 486 

" Orange and 486 

Chicken Broiled 487 

Crust Coffee 481 

Currant Jelly Water 480 

Egg.— Cream 482 

" Lemonade 481 

Milk 481 

Egg-nogg 482 

Egg Scrambled 487 

" Wine 482 

Fi-nit 487 

Gruel.— Arrowroot 484 



552 



INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Gruel.— Boiled Flour 483 

Milk 483 

Oatmeal (2) 484 

Rice 484 

Water 482 

Hints for Invalids 479-480 

Jelly.— Arrowroot 484 

Calves' Foot 485 

Chicken 485 

Sago 485 

" Tapioca 484 

Lemonade.— Esg 481 

Flaxseed 482 

Hot 482 



PAGE 

Lemonade.— Milk 482 

Panada Bread 485 

Paulet a la Creme 488 

Porridge, Milk (21 483 

Pudding, Sago 485 

Quail, Broiled 487 

Soup.— Cracker 485 

Sago 487 

Tamarind Water 480 

Toast Water 480 

Whey.— Buttermilk 481 

" Lemon 481 

" Rennet 481 

" Wine 481 



HE^A.Xv'TH. 



PAGE. 

Acid, Stomach 507 

Ague - 507 

Arteries, Severed 493 

Blood.— Clover Tea for 499 

Puritier 498 

Alterative 499 

Root Tea for... 499 

Bruises 494 

Discoloration 494 

Burns 496-497 

" Carron Oil for --- 497 

" Large surface 497 

" WhiteotEggs 497 

Canker in Mouth 503 

Chafing, to Prevent 508 

Catarrh (2) 501 

Chest Protectors. - 500 

Cholera Mixture 506 

Clothing Taking Fire 495 

Colds, to Cure 501 

Consumption 500 

Convulsions 510 

Copper Coin, Swallowed 509 

Cough Mixiure (2) 501 

Svrup : 500 

" Flaxseed 500 

Croup 501 

Cuts, Bleeding. - 494 

Decoctions 498 

Diphtheria 502 

Wash 502 

'• (2) 503 

Disinfectants 490-491 

Dyspepsia 506 

Ears 509 

B.ARACdE 508 

Emergencies, Hints tor 489 

Erysipelas (2) 499-500 

Extracts 498 

Feet, Bur-ning 510 

Felons {4i. 505 

Footbaths 510 

Finger-joints, Stiffened 510 

Fish-bone, Swallowed, 503 

Fits 507 

Hav Fever (2) 503 

Headache (2) 507 

Heartburn 508 



PAGE 

Hot Water. Swallowed 493 

Hydrophobia 496 

Hysteria 510 

Infusions 498 

Liniment.— Little Giant 504 

" Wormwood 504 

Lock-Jaw.— Cure to (2) 495 

" " Prevent to 495 

Medicines 498 

Medicine Takers 506 

Mortification 507 

Nervousness 504 

Neuralgia (2) 504-505 

Night Sweats 500 

Nose, Bleeding at (2 1 508 

" Foreign Objects 509 

Ointment. Balm Gilead 498 

Pain-killer 506 

Poisons, Antidotes for 491-492 

Poison Ivy, Remedy 498 

Poultices 508 

Quinsy 503 

Rattlesnake Bite 496 

Red Clover Tea 499 

Rheumatism (2) 503-504 

Rheumatic Application 504 

Ringworm 507 

Salt Rheum, Cure - 499 

Salve. Golden 498 

Scarlet Fever 507 

Scalds (G) 49G-497 

Sicatica 505 

Sick Room 490 

" Cool to 491 

Small Pox .* 507 

Snake Bites (2) 496 

Sprains 495 

Sleeplessness 509 

Summer Diseases (3) 506 

Tincture, Balm Gilead 504 

Warts 510 

Weakened Sinew 510 

Wpus 510 

Whooping Cougli 503 

Wounds 493 

Contused 494 

" Incised 493 

" Punctured 494 



INDEX. 



553 



OTHEJ 'TOir^E^T, 



PAGE. 

Baths 512 

" Bran 512 

Black Heads, to Remove (2) 516 

Blood Purifier 511 

Bruises" 517 

Camphor Ice 517 

Cbeam of Roses 519 

Cold Cream 515 

Complexion, Aids to 513 

Wash 515 

Cosmetic— Gloves 520 

Washes 518 

Cucumber Pomade 516 

Depilatories (2) 519 

ETE.-^Cinders in 522 

Brows, Color to 522 

" " Deepen to 522 

Thicken to 522 

" Lashes 522 

Colorto 522 

" " Darkento 522 

Face.— Bathe to 514 

Whiten to 514 

" Wrinkles, to remove 514 

Fever Blisters 521 

Freckles and Tan 515 

510-517 

Fingernails 521 

Finser Nail Polish 52 1 

Hands.— Cosmetic Gloves 520 

Glycerine for 523 



^ ~ PAGE. 

Hands.— Soften to 520 

" Stains on 520 

" Whitento 520 

Lettuce Cream 517 

Lip Salve 521 

Lips, Coloring for 521 

Mosquito Bites 519 

Moth Patches 517 

Pimples, Wash for 516 

Porous Skin, Paste for 513 

Powders.— Face (3) 518 

" Liquid 518 

" Rose 518 

Scars 51 8 

Skin.— Irritations 519 

Oily (3) 515 

Sallow, Wash 514 

SOAP.-Toilet, Liquid 513 

White 513 

Sunburn 517 

Tan 515-517 

Toilet.— Hints on 511 

Water Slij-SlO 

Tooth.— Brushes 522 

Charcoal for 523 

Picks 522 

Polish 523 

" Powders 523 

Wash 523 

Wrinkles.— Remove to 514 

(2) 516 



:ivi:i»OE^rvrvA.:x:E?ous. 



PAGE. 

Ant-Beds.— Destroy to 532 

Ants, Destroy to (2) 533 

Aniline Dyed Goods 532 

Boot Soles.— To Harden 532 

Bottles, Glass, to cut 532 

Butter, Cool, to keep 534 

Cider 53(5 

Cisterns, Purify to 535 

China, Old, to clean . - . 533 

Cranberries, keep to 531 

Cement.— China for 530 

" Crockery 534 

" Indestructible 530 

India Rubber for 533 

Invisible (Glass) 530 

Coal Ashes (Currant Bushes) 535 

Copying Paper (4) 529-532 

Cows (feed Potatoes, etc.) 536 

Dried Fruit (from Insects) 536 

Fire Kindlers 533 

Flt-Paper 535 

535 

Fur Robes, Moths from 534 

Grease Spots, Remove to 531 

Gilt Frames, Preserve to 532 

Gold Chains. Clean to 531 



PAGE. 

Glue Liquid (2) 532 

Hair Brushes, Clean to 531 

Honev, Candying from 536 

Ink.— Black (2) 529 

Blue 529 

" Copying 529 

Indeliljle 529 

Invisiljle 530 

Red 529 

" Remove from Books, etc 531 

Ijemon, Keep to 531 

Majolica, Clean to 533 

Mice 533 

Milk, Cool, to Keep 534 

Mucilage, Home Made 530 

Nails, Hardwood into 533 

Paste.— Scrap Books for 530 

Pin Cushions, to fill 533 

Plaster of Paris Figures 533 

Plush, Renovate to 532 

Pumps, Thaw to 535 

Rats AND Mice 533 

Refrigerators, Purify to 535 

Roaches, to Destroy 533 

Screws, Hardwood in 533 

Stains, Berry, from Books 531 



554 



INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Stoppers, Glass, (Loosen) 536 

Sponges, Cleanse to 535 

Switch, Color to (2) 536 

Tinware, Mending 536 

Tortoise Shell, Polish to 531 

Umbrellas, Preserve to — ,... 332 



PiOE. 

Water, Cool to 534 

Weeds, Moss, to Kill 532 

Wells, Examine to 534 

Wood Vessels, Taste in 532 

Wooden Pails, to Prepare 532 




BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRAR 

, llilililllllfilll 

3 9999 05987 783 5 



